
mmw 




Household Science 
Department 
Univ. of Toronto 



THE JOURNAL 

OF 

HOME ECONOMICS 



PUBLISHED ■_ BY 
THE AMERICAN HOME ECONOMICS ASSOCIATION 



COMPLETE IN TWELVE NUMBERS 
VOL. X, 1918 



BALTIMORE, MD. 

1918 



J7 
l\0 




11 01-:' 7.1 



Vol. X, No. 1 January, 1918 

THE 

Journal of Home Economics 

For those interested in Homemaking, Institution Management, 
and Educational Work in Home Economics 

Mks .^ce p. Norton, Editor Ketotlah E. Baldwin, ^fanalinl Edilor 

[Editorial Board 
ri Mrs. .\Ury H. .\bel .\m>ja Barrows C. F. L\»3Worth\- Isabel Ely Lord Katharine Bldni 

Ex-Offido irem6«rr-CATHARiXE J. MacKav. President American Home Economics Association 
EsniA H- GcNTHER, Chairman Institution Economics Section 



Ruth Wheeler, Chairman Science Secti( 

Neale S. Knowxes, Chairman Extension Education Section 

Callaboritori—The Officers, Members of the Council, and Advisers 



CONTENTS 

Wheat Needs of the World Alonzo Taylor 1 

Some Recent Magazine Articles on the Standard of Lweng .... Lorittda Perry 9 

Fat .Absorption in Frying Doughnuts Mary C. McKee 18 

The^Nbw Food Card 21 

For the Homemaker 

Vegetable Oils and their Use in CooKtNO Kalharine Blunt 23 

The Marketing Clubs of Pittsburgh Alma V. Johnson 27 

Do You Know Corn Meal ? ^0 

Student Contributions 

Ax Analytical Study of Some Varieties or White Goods . . . Martha Farnum 33 

Editorial -'^ 

Comment and Discussion 40 

Books and Literature ^^ 

Bibliography of Home Economics ^^ 

News from the Field ^"^ 



The Journal OF Home Econoidcs is published monthly by the .American Home Economics Association. 
$2.00 A YEAR. FOREIGN $2.33. CANADIAN $2.20. SINGLE COPIES 25 CENTS 

HOW TO REMIT. Remittances should be sent by Draft on New York, Express Order or Postal Money Order, pay- 
able to the .American Home Economics Association. Currency, unless mailed in a registered letter, is at the sender s risk. 

CH.-VNGEIN ADDRESS. Notice of change in ad Ire^s should be seat Two Weeks before the due of issue on which 
the change is to take effect. The subscriber's Old .\ddrcS5 should be clearly indicated m addition to the New Address. 

AMERICAN HOME ECONOMICS ASSOCIATION 1211 Cathedral St., Baltimore, Md. 

Entered as second class matter at the Baltimore Post Office 

The Journal OF Home Econcwics is on sale at John Wanamaker's, Philadelphia; The Old Corner Book'.Store, Boston; 

A. C. McClurg's. Chicago; Baltimore News Company, Baltimore; Woodward and Lothrop, Washington 



The American Home Economics Association 

Organized Dec 31 1908. Incorporated May 12, 1909. .... 

The American Home Economics Association exists for the purpose of bringing together those interested in the bettering 
of condiUons in the home, the school, the public institution, and the community , .,,.■ 

Annual Dues: Active $2.00; Associate $1.00. O nly active member s receive the quarterly buUelm. 

President 

CATHARINE J. MACKAY, 

Iowa State College, Ames, Iowa 

Vice-Presidents 



MARION TALBOT, 
University of Chicago 



Secretary 
MRS. ALICE P. NORTON, 
1326 E. 58th St., Chicago, 111. 



ABBY L. MARLATT, 
University of Wisconsin, Madis 



EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE 



FLORA ROSE, 
Cornell University, Ithaca, N. Y. 



Treasurer 

H. GALE TURPIN, 

Baltimore Trust Campany, Baltimore 



The Executive Committee is composed of the following members: The president, three vice-presidents, secretary, treas- 
urer the retiring president, and five additional members of the Council chosen, by the Council, viz: Mrs. Marj- H. Abel, 
Isabel Bevier, Lilla A. Harkins, Henry C. Sherman, Mary E. Sweeny. 



COUNCILORS AT LARGE 



TERMS EXPIRE 1917 
IsABEi Bevier, A.IC. Trde. , . . , 

University of Illinois, U. S. Dept. of Agriculture, 

Urbana, HI- Washington, D. C. 

LnxA A. Harkins, Bertm Terrill, . „ ,. . 

Montana State College, Bozeman, Mont. University of Vermont, Burlingt^ 



Agnes Harris, 

Florida State College, 
Tallahassee. Fla. 



MrsJMary H. .^bel, 
Woodlawn, 
Baltii 



:^y C. Sheeiman, 
Columbia University, 
New York, N. Y. 



TERMS EXPIRE 1918 
Anna Barrows, 

Teachers College, 
New York City. 

C. F. Langwoeihy, 

U. S. Dept. of Agriculture, 
Washington, D. C. 



Benjamin R. Andrews. 
Teachers College, 
New York City 



Sarah Loihse Arnold, 
Simmons College, 
Boston, Mass. 

Isabel Ely Lord. 
Pratt Institute, 
Brooklyn. N. Y 

Mrs. Henrietta Calvin, 

U. S. Bureau of Education. 
Washington, D. C. 
Fannie Tvfiss, 

Normal School. Regina, 
Saskatchewan, Canada. 



TERMS EXPIRE 1919 
Josephine T. Berry, 
University Farm, 
St. Paul, Minn. 

Catherine A. Mulligan, 
Converse College, 

Spartanburg, S. C. 

TERMS EXPIRE 1920 
AucE Looms, 

University of Nebraska, 
Lincoln, Neb. 

Edna N. White, 

University of Ohio, 
Columbus, Ohio. 



Helen Looise'Johnson, 
415 Maryland Bldg., 
Washington, D. C. 



Mary E. Sweeney, 

University of Kentucky, 
Lexington, Ky. 



Effie Raitt. 

University of Washington, 
Seattle, Wash. 

EUEIINE WhITCOMB, 

University of Wyoming, 
Laramie, Wyo. 



Mrs' Charles W. Greene, 
814 Columbia Ave., 

Columbia, Mo. 



TERMS EXPIRE 1921 
Ruth Wardall, 

University of Iowa, 
Iowa City, Iowa 

Mary E. Matthews, 
Purdue University, 
LaFayettc, Ind. 
SECTIONAL COUNCILORS 

Institution Economics Section: Mrs. Melvh Dewey, Lake Placid Club, N. V.; Emma H. Gunther, Teachers College. 
Science Section: Ruth Wheeler, University of Illinois, Urbana, III. 

Extension Section: Neale S. Knowles, Iowa State College, Ames, Iowa 
REPRESENTATIVE COUNCILORS 
One representative councilor may be chosen by each affiliated society, provided the councilor is a member of the American 
Home Economics Association. The names of those appointed are printed with the officers of the Affiliated .■\55ociation. 
TRUSTEES OF THE ELLEN H. RICHARDS MEMORIAL FUND 

BOARD OF im'ESTMENT OF PERMANENT FUNDS OF ASSOCIATION 

TERMS EXPIRE JANUARY 1. 1918 
Frederick B. Pratt, 
Pratt Institute, 

Brooklyn N. Y. (Chairman). 
Marion Talbot, 

University of Chicago. 
Chicago. III. 
TERMS EXPIRE JANUARY 1, 1919 
AvA B. Milam. 

Corvallis. Ore. 
Mrs. John Widtsoe. 
Salt Lake Citv. Utah 
TERMS EXPIRE JANUARY 1, 1920 
Mrs. Annie Dewey, 
Lake Placid Club, 

Lake Placid, N. Y. 
Caroline Hunt, 

U. S. Dept. of Agriculture, 
Washington. D. C. 



Benjamin R Andrews, 
Teachers College, 
New York, 

(Secretary and Treasu 

Martha Van Rensselaer, 
Cornell University. 
Ithaca, N. Y. 



Robert H. Richards, 

Mass. Inst, of Technology, 
Boston, Mass. 



Harriet A. Boyer, 

H. Sophia Newcomb College, 
New Orleans, La. 



Anna Barrows, 

Teachers College, 
New York City 



THE 

Journal of Home Economics 

Vol. X JANUARY, 191S No. 1 

WHEAT NEEDS OF THE WORLDS 

ALONZO TAYLOR 

U . S. Food Admbiistralion and U. S. War Export Board 

One of the most impressive results of the war, almost as impressive 
as the destruction of life, is the decrease of production. War carries 
with it infallibly diminution of the total producing forces of the nation 
at war. Production in industry, art, science, agriculture, in every 
direction of human endeavor, is reduced as the direct result of war. 
This is because war deflects energy and brains into nonproductive chan- 
nels. Whenever brains and energy are deflected from productive into 
nonproductive channels, there is not only less work, but there is also 
greater liability to undergo loss; in other words, the actual diminution 
in production is greater through the operation of natural forces in war 
time, because the defensive powers of the State are reduced. That is 
the reason why crop failures, destruction by parasites, and all accidents 
to crops are more apt to occur in war time and to inflict greater results 
than otherwise. The defensive powers are reduced, and thus we find 
in connection with war not only a diminution in agriculture but also a 
more than customary degree of loss tlirough extraneous forces. The 
loss in crops in Europe this year is greater than ever before. They 
have had severe winter killings, insufficient labor, not enough work ani- 
mals to till the soil, the seed was not selected; all of these factors make 
for a lower yield. This winter killing extended to Germany and, in 
general, all over Europe, with the exception of Poland and Roumania. 

It is clear that the wheat production of the allies will probably not 
be in excess of two-thirds of a normal crop, 400,000,000 bushels, leaving 

'.-\n address given in the Auditorium of the National Museum, Washington, .August 28, 
1917. Reprinted with the permission of the United States Food .\dministration. 

1 



2 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOiQCS [January 

our allies under the necessity of importing almost 600,000,000. To meet 
this situation we have a short wheat crop in the United States and in 
Canada. The United States and Canada will probably produce 800- 
000,000 bushels, from which we should have an exportable balance of 
possibly 200,000,000 bushels. The 400,000,000 bushels more of wheat 
that our allies used to secure from the rest of the world they will not 
secure. Argentine's last wheat crop was a relative failure and an em- 
bargo has been placed on export. There is a surplus in India of about 
75,000,000 or 100,000,000 bushels; in Austraha of 300,000,000. This 
is again out of the question from the standpoint of transportation. It 
is almost certain sinking to bring grain through the Suez Canal and 
there are not enough ships to transport it around Cape Horn. Our 
allies practically face the situation of importing 550,000,000 to 600,000,- 
000 bushels of wheat from North America if they are to get it, since if 
they can not obtain it they will have to subsist in part upon other cereals. 
We will have available this year, outside of the average normal con- 
sumption, only 200,000,000 bushels. This is the situation stated 
statistically, using rounded figures. 

We shall have tliis year about 5,250,000,000 bushels of cereals, of 
which only 660,000,000 are wheat. Yet all that is tallied about is 
wheal. What is there about wheal that makes it so wonderful and so 
mystical? Why does everyone's mind fix itself upon wheat? That 
is due to a number of reasons that it is necessary for everyone to 
understand. 

There are three grains that will make bread, in the ordinary sense of 
the word, wheat, rye, and barley. When mixed with water they can 
be kneaded; under the influence of yeast they can be raised and main- 
tain a continuity of structure that will mold; when baked they form a 
loaf which will keep and can be transported, and is therefore a most 
convenient form in which cereals may be used. These three grains 
alone will make bread as we know it. 

As one follows each nation's developments upward in an economic 
sense, one notes that barley is first eaten; as the nation becomes more 
prosperous, barley is thrown to one side and rye is used; and finally 
rye is cast aside and wheat is the main subsistence. This has been the 
history of most Aryan peoples. 

The United Kingdom depends almost entirely upon wheat for its 
bread. Italy consumes wheat bread, but bread is not so prominent as 
elsewhere. Rye is universally used in Russia, and barley is still em- 



1918] WHEAT NEEDS OF THE WORLD 3 

ployed as a bread grain. The reason why wheat supersedes rye and bar- 
ley is because the bread is whiter, of a liner texture, and has unquestion- 
ably a better taste. The flour has somewhat better keeping quahties, 
and wheat flour lends itself to the making of pastries and fancy articles 
as no other flour does. 

When a nation can no longer obtain wheat, it returns first to rye 
flour and then to barley. To-day the flour for war bread in Germany 
is 45 per cent barley, 55 per cent wheat and rye. 

As to the superior nutritive value of wheat flour, this is entirely 
exaggerated. There are no differences when used in a mixed diet; one 
is just as good as another. Wheat is not superior to rj-e or barley; 
they are not superior to oats or rice or corn, if they are used in a mixed 
diet. 

Now, if it be true that all of these cereals are of equal value in a mixed 
diet, why is it that we are appealing to the American people to send 
more than our customary amount of wheat to the aUies? If they need 
a billion bushels of these cereals and they have raised approximately 
400,000,000 bushels and can rniport from us only 200,000,000 bushels 
of wheat, why should they not take the other 400,000,000 bushels in 
other cereals and leave us our normal wheat ration? Why are we ap- 
pealing to our people to cut down wheat and substitute supplementary 
cereals? 

A certain amount of experimentation is possible with the diet of a 
normal healthy person. But the individual who is harassed and over- 
worked is not in a situation to tolerate any marked deviation from the 
normal diet. In this situation are the allies in Europe to-day. 

A question of trade also enters the problem. In America at least 
55 per cent bake the bread in the household and only 45 per cent 
buy it from the baker. In Europe nearly everyone purchases bread 
from the baker. Domestic baking is economically wasteful. It is, 
therefore, absolutely necessary to adopt one or two positions; either 
the allies are to be taught a totally new use of cereals, not in the 
form of bread, or they must be given enough bread grains to build a loaf. 

Anyone who travels through this country knows what a task it 
would be to get the people to live on rice. Go to the hotels in Washing- 
ton and see what sort of a mess they make of corn bread. Then you will 
feel that it is not an easy experiment to teach the peoples of the allies 
how to make corn bread. If hotels here can not succeed, how can we 
expect the individual in Europe to succeed? 



4 THE jouRN.\L OF HOME ECONOMICS [January 

In England there is a large use of rice. In England, Scotland, and 
Ireland there is a hea\^ use of oatmeal. The people of the United King- 
dom will take corn also. The same thing is true of Italy. Corn in the 
form of polenta is used in Italy and rice is also a frequent article of the 
diet. Wheat flour, although used for bread, is not entirely depended 
upon by the women of Italy. 

The women of France are absolutely dependent upon wheat bread, 
which forms 52 per cent of the total food of the French people (the 
present ration is 18 ounces per day), a larger percentage than with any 
other nation of the world. They eat no rice, no corn; they know noth- 
ing of oatmeal and rye, and of barley have little knowledge. The prob- 
lem rises with France. If we were to estimate the wheat the alHes 
have raised, add to it our 200,000,000 bushels, and then send the balance 
of their need in other cereals, there would not be enough wheat flour to 
go around. You can not make good bread if you have as low an amount 
as 60 per cent of wheat flour with 40 per cent of other cereals. From a 
practical point of view, bakers fail to make bread under these circum- 
stances. You can get along on 75 and 25. Uifless we wish to impose 
upon the French women the burden of entirely recasting their house- 
holds, it is up to us to get more wheat to the allies, and especially to 
France. I want, if possible, to iix in your minds the actual situation 
of the French woman in her home. 

My words are not powerful enough to do even scanty justice to the 
most heroic figure in the modern world, and of ages past — the woman 
of France. Every French home has a man at the front, incapacitated 
by wounds or sidfering from tuberculosis. Many houses have two of 
these and some three or four. 

Duririg the years from 1909 to 1913 there were rejected from the an- 
nual recruitings of French mihtary service 25 per cent of the fresh re- 
cruits by reason of tuberculosis. These numbered during the five years 
about 900,000 men, who were rejected from the French Army for peace- 
time drill on account of being tubercular. Beginning about one and 
one-half years ago, France was compelled to send these men to the front, 
and the majority of them have succumbed to a recrudescence of tuber- 
culosis. Of the healthy men who are not engaged in the military serv- 
ice in France, practically all are engaged either in transportation or in 
the manufacture of munitions, leaving the agriculture absolutely to the 
women. Not only this, but they have stepped into the place of work 
animals; you can go into any section of France to-day and see women 



1918] W^HEAT NEEDS OF THE WORLD 5 

of magnificent, noble womanhood hitched to the plow and cultivating 
the soil. All of the agriculture rests upon their shoulders. The home, 
always an extremely efficient home, maintains a few old men, the 
wounded, and the tubercular. Uncomplaining, with high devotion, 
with an attitude that amounts almost to religious exaltation, the woman 
of France bears the burden. 

A few days ago, in describing the French prisoners in German prison 
camps, I pointed out, what I had seen in my own personal observation, 
that beginning with the first months of the war the French women 
sent parcels of food to their men amounting to about 60 per cent of their 
total food. There was no organization; the French woman as a matter 
of course sent this food parcel to her husband, father, son, brother, or 
sweetheart in the German prison-of-war camps. When food became 
scarcer, the parcels became smaller and the French prisoners were com- 
pelled to subsist more largely upon the German food which is insufficient 
to maintain normal nutrition. To our positive knowledge this necessity 
has become a serious menace because so many of the men who were in 
the prison camps were tubercular. Of course, insufficient diet would 
only accelerate the ravages of the disease and so arrangements are under 
way to supplement this diet by food from the United States. But 
wherever we went we did not hear any complaint from France; there 
has never been any complaint. There never will be any complaint. 
They do not complain. They only go without, and there would never 
be any knowledge on our part if it were not for their official representa- 
tives, who, feeling themselves so close to us that we seem to be almost 
one with them, can mention this state of affairs simply as they are; 
but complain, no! We will never hear that; it is not in their nature. 

Now, conditions being as they are, does it lie within the heart of the 
American people to preserve and hold to every convenience of our life 
at the expense of adding an additional burden to the womanhood of 
France? This is the exact question that is involved in our substitution 
of other cereals in place of wheat. 

If the people of the North will consume cereals as they have always 
done in the South (and they fought a very good battle for five years, 
50 years ago, on their mixed diet), we can send an additional 150,000,000 
bushels of wheat to the allies, principally to France. In the North we 
consume about 12 ounces of cereal per day, 10 in the form of wheat 
flour and 2 of rye, rice, barley, oats, and corn. In the South they con- 
sume about 7 ounces of wheat flour and 6 ounces of other cereals. If we 



6 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [January 

can induce the people of the North to cut down the consumption of 
wheat to an3-thing approaching that of the South, we can realize 150,- 
000,000 bushels of wheat. Tliis will enable the allies to mix other 
cereals with the wheat in such proportions that they can make them hold 
together as bread. On a three-quarter basis of wheat and one-quarter 
of other cereals, they will be able to make perfectly good bread, not as 
good as whole wheat bread, but then c'est la guerre. If the amount of 
wheat falls very appreciably below the average figure, it will not be pos- 
sible to give them freedom in the making of bread. 

ThJs still does not put us in their class, because we have more free- 
dom in the choice of supplementary articles of diet. We can accomplish 
saving of wheat by not having bread on certain days or for certain meals. 
As a matter of fact, all we ask in the substitution of cereals can be 
reached with one meal in the day a wheatless meal. If one meal per 
day sees other cereals used to the exclusion of wheat, this problem is 
solved. If it is tried for a short time, it is found to be an exceedingly 
small thing. It amounts to a slight reduction in what is, at the best, a 
convenience; but it means an enormous increment and assistance to the 
womanhood of France. 

Now, this is in simple terms what we need and what will have to be 
done if we are to do our part, what is up to us to do to help bring the 
war to a successful conclusion. Previous wars have always been dis- 
cussed largely in terms of units of men and not in terms of units of ani- 
mals or units of food. That is why the German peasant protests against 
sending his swine except at a very high price, because he has not been 
accustomed to so doing; he has always expected to send his children, 
but not his live stock. 

Do not be confused by peace talk and other rumors. Those of us who 
have been in Germany during the war know that peace at this time is 
not the view of the ruling classes of Germany, who stand for annexation 
east and west. Although there are many Germans who do not think 
thusly, they can make no protest. Germany is not going to starve; 
she can not be starved out. There is not going to be a revolution in 
Germany, not so long as there is war. This war will end in no such wa}'. 

The women of France must be enabled to hold up the morale of the 
French soldier until next spring. The morale of the home decides the 
morale of the soldier in tlie fighting line. It does no good to feed the 
soldier if you starve his family. It is, therefore, the first duty of the 
Americans to make the pressure back of the line at the home, and above 



1918] W-HEAT NEEDS OF THE WORLD 7 

all else on the women, as light as possible. It can not be made small, 
but we can reduce it greatly. We can do this by giving tliem the greatest 
possible freedom in their food supply, and of this wheat is the chief 
factor. Others are sugar and fat. 

Another tiling, we must be able to talce over part of the French line 
next spring, because there is a limit even to the strength of the fighting 
forces of France. Good judges do not feel that France will be able to 
maintain her present oiJensive throughout another calendar year, and 
it is up to the United States to take our place there. We must make 
the path of the women of France as easy as possible during the next 
eight months and at the end of that time take the place of the French- 
men in the hne for miles and miles. If we expect to win this war and 
expect to stand in history as we should stand, we will have to do these 
two things. It is somewhat of an invidious comparison to make, but 
it is undoubtedly true that the morale of an entire nation is represented 
by the morale of the women. It is also true that the morale of the 
French woman is the highest in the world, because she has suffered most. 
The women of England and Italy will in another year be in the same 
position as in France, if the war continues long. 

Last September I was visiting a prison-of-war hospital in England. 
It contained a thousand wounded Germans, officers and privates. 
Those who are familiar with prison-of-war camps and hospitals know 
that for about 48 hours after a soldier is wounded he will leak informa- 
tion if approached in his own language. There were in this hospital 
nearly 200 officers, who had just been received at the hospital from one 
of the fierce artillery battles. In speaking to these officers, and to one 
in particular, I noticed that the only thing they were afraid of was 
that they should be accused of cowardice. This officer, with others 
and about 100 men, had been in a front line position underground. 
While the bombardment was going on they were in cellars. When the 
bombardment ceased, they knew that the barrage would be the next, 
and the Frenchmen would be advancing upon their own curtain. Be- 
fore the Germans had time to raise the machine guns in place, a small 
party of Frenchmen had advanced far enough to throw a half dozen 
hand grenades into their cellar, and there was nothing for them to dc^ 
but surrender. Of course, if they had had time to get their machine 
guns in position, they would have been able to repulse the French at- 
tacking part}'. The fact remains, said the officer, that the French sol- 
dier was the better fighter in connection with artillery fire. I remarked 



8 THE jouiiNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [January 

that possibly he meant better than the Enghsh "Tommy." No, he 
said the French soldier was the best tighter in the world, barring none. 
He said that the Frenchmen have something no other soldier has. 

As I left the hospital I fell to wondering what he could have meant 
and what should be drawn from what he had said. What is it that the 
Frenchman has that no other soldier has? One thing, there is a wonder- 
ful spirit of comradeship between officers and men that does not exist 
anywhere in the world except in France. We trust that our new Na- 
tional Army may be able to attain the same comradeship. But it is 
not that. One must go to Card de Nord, which is now purely a military 
station. The women go with their men to the trains. There is no 
weeping; every eye is dry. Mothers, sisters, daughters, sweethearts, 
and wives put their men on the train almost, if one observes them 
casually, as nonchalant as if they were going to work, and they are. 
The train pulls out slowly and the women stand on the platform watch- 
ing. There are no tears then. The men stand at the windows and on 
the outside platforms, looking back and straining their eyes for the last 
look. Then after the train has gone, the women return to their homes, 
their faces lighted with what is almost a holy and religious exaltation. 
This is what the soldier of France has that no other soldier in the world 
has — the woman of France. 

Let us hope that our women will be able to catch the same spirit. If 
our women can cultivate the spirit of France, the war will be won, and its 
suffering will not be in vain. The spirit of France means the doing each 
day of the simple duties, the duties that make for efficiency and that 
make for the home, for the freedom of which our Nation has embarked 
upon this war. They, the women of France, are perfectly simple. From 
them has come the spirit that has enabled France to stand through 
three years of warfare, such as no nation probably at any time, ancient 
or modern, has ever withstood. The war will never rage within our 
borders, it must always be within the borders of France; and for that 
reason all consideration must be given to them, who have the war with 
them, physically as well as mentally, every moment day and night. 



1918] MAGAZINE ARTICLES ON STAND.ARD OF LIVING 9 

SOME RECENT MAGAZINE ARTICLES ON THE STANDARD 
OF LIVING 

LOEINDA PERRY 

Associate in Household Science, University of Illinois 

{Concluded) 

The need of saving becomes urgent because of the mounting cost of 
liv-ing which has not been cancelled by corresponding increases in income 
and because of great national needs. Not only individual needs but 
important national demands impose upon the individual the responsi- 
bility of sa\'ing. Two articles on Thrift, by Professors Edward T. Devine 
and Robert Graham Taylor, which are well worth reading, appear in 
The Survey of the last year. Before the war, more and more, emphasis 
was being shifted from the necessity of individual saving to the necessity 
for maintaining an adequate standard of living, especially for working 
people. It was advocated that individual saving be replaced or at least 
supplemented by collective or cooperative saving as a more efficient form. 
The present emergency has, however, peculiarly placed the responsi- 
bility for saving back upon the individual, without lessening the necessity 
for cooperative forms of saving or minimizing the need for maintaining 
the standard of living. Professor Devine' who has laid emphasis upon 
the maintenance of a standard of living by group saving thinks the old 
teaching in a modified form must again be vigorously preached. The 
need for individual saving arises because of the actual shortage of the 
means of subsistence due to lowered production and to the diversion of 
capital and labor from productive peace enterprises to important war 
activities. This need will continue after the war because of the destruc- 
tion of enormous amounts of capital which must be replaced. The neces- 
sity for thrift is thus immechate, great, and continuous. Professor 
Devine considers the nature of Thrift and Saving not deprivation, but 
more rational expenditure, not solely or even principally doing without 
things. For at any time spending involves doing without things in or- 
der to obtain other things. "Fundamentally they (saving and thrift) 
mean a wise and disciplined judgment as to expenditures."* They de- 
mand character and a scale of values. The careful saver spends every 
dollar on a plan carefully worked out in advance, giving due considera- 

' Devine, Edward T. : Thrift and Saving. Survey, vol. 38, pp. 400-103. 
• Ibid., p. 400. 



10 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [January 

tion to future as well as present needs, substituting deliberate choice for 
impulsive expenditures. 

The time to begin to save is now. Those who should save are those 
who can afford to save, whose means of subsistence are in excess of needs 
— in other words, practically all of us. In saving, the following princi- 
ples will be useful as a guide in choosing: " those forms of saving should 
be preferred which, if adopted generally, will tend to make prices lower, 
supplies more abundant, and release goods more freely for the vital na- 
tional needs. "' All forms of expenditure must be reconsidered from the 
point of view of rational expenditure with the purpose in view of pur- 
chasing "those things which, other things being equal, most economi- 
cally supply elementary human needs, and for the rest those things which 
satisfy higher rather than lower, essential rather than passing, social 
rather than selfishly personal demands."^ 

Piofessor Taylor in a paper,'" given at the hundred year anniversary 
of the opening of the first American Savings Bank in Philadelphia, dis- 
cusses social forms of thrift. Thrift is not only an individual habit and 
virtue, it is also social. Thrift of the individual or of society may de- 
generate into "thriftless thrift," overlooking the future for immediate 
wants (or vice versa), obtaining the welfare of the individual at the ex- 
pense of the group. The advantage of group thrift arises because group 
thrift in many instances is more efficient and because of the necessity of 
protecting society from the "thriftless thrift" of individuals who may 
exploit themselves or others. Social thrift thus takes the form of laws 
such as those regulating the hours and conditions of employment of wom- 
en and children, providing for compulsory schooling, mothers' pensions, 
minimum wage laws, sanitary inspection of tenement houses and shops, 
pure food and drug acts, laws establishing postal savings banks, and the 
federal Children's Bureau. It also takes the form of voluntary associa- 
tions such as the American Association for the Prevention of Infant 
Mortality, the American Labor Legislation Association, and others. 

Market conditions have received much of the blame for the high cost 
of living, especially for the increased cost of food. The last century has 
been characterized by rapid increase in urban population and in the ter- 
ritorial division and specialization of labor. The distance and the inter- 
mediaries between the producer and the consumer have increased great- 
ly. The result has been maladjustment and consequent waste in the 

» Ibid., p. 402. 
"Taylor, Robert Graham: The Social .\spect of Thrift. Surrey, v. 37. pp 83-1 



1918] MAG.^ZINE .ARTICLES ON STAND.AiiD OF LWING 11 

distribution especially of food, which has added to its cost. The differ- 
ence between the price which the producers of many goods, especially 
food, receive and the price which the consumer pays, gives rise to the be- 
lief that the middleman exacts a tribute from the price of goods for which 
he returns no adequate service. Some think the remedy is to bring about 
a more direct purchase of goods from the producer by the consumer. 

Much of this behef may be traced to failure to understand the 
legitimate functions of the middleman. A clear conception of the mar- 
ket and of market organization is of value to the consumer as well as to 
the retailer or producer. Prof. L. D. H. Weld," in analyzing what are 
usually called the functions of the middleman and which he prefers to 
call " marketing functions, " shows the processes which must be performed 
in the present complex society in getting goods into the hands of the con- 
sumer from the producer. He classifies the services to be performed in 
the marketing processes as (1) assembling, (2) storing, (3) assuming risk, 
(4) financing, (5) rearranging, (6) selling, (7) transporting. 

The need for assembling — the seeking out of sources of supply, the 
making of business connections by which commodities may be pur- 
chased, the study of market conditions — arises with the development of 
territorial division of labor and specialization. It is ob\'ious that it is 
easier and more efficient for one middleman to bring the many producers 
and many retailers together than for each individual retailer to make 
his connections directly with innumerable producers. 

Storing is the holding of stocks of goods at convenient points, at a con- 
venient time. It requires expense for wholesale or storage fees, store 
space, interest on capital tied up in goods. Both the producer and the 
retailer may and do store goods, but the tendency is for both to shift 
this responsibility to the middleman. This, for instance, accounts for 
the increase in the number of small jobbing houses in small jobbing 
centers. 

The risk assumed is of various kinds; risk of fluctuations in price 
which varies with the kind of goods handled, risk of destruction by fire, 
which is shifted usually to insurance companies, risk of deterioration 
in quality, as with fresh meats and fruits, which make necessary special 
facilities such as refrigerators, risk of changes in style, and financial 
risk involved in the collection of accounts. 

The function of financing usually takes the form of granting credit, 

" Weld, L. D. H.: Marketing Functions and Mercantile Organization. Amer. Econ. 
Rev., V. 7, pp. 306-318. 



12 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [January 

and occurs all along the line — the retailer to the consumer, the jobber to 
the retailer, the manufacturer to the jobber. It is not at all unusual 
for the jobber to finance both the manufacturer and the retailer. This 
function again calls for considerable amount of capital. 

Rearrangement consists of the sorting, grading, breaking up of large 
quantities into smaller units, packing, etc. Again this takes place all 
along the line from producer to consumer. 

Selling is the most important and costly of the functions performed by 
the middleman. It consists both in creating demand for goods and in 
getting the goods into the hands of the purchaser. It may be done 
through personal salesmen, or advertising, or both. 

Transportation of goods is largely taken over by other agencies such 
as the railroad. Yet the jobber and the retailer still perform part of 
this function with their delivery systems. 

Greater functional specialization occurs in the marketing of farm 
products than in the marketing of manufactured goods — that is, on the 
whole, farm products pass through the hands of a greater number of 
middlemen. The fact that the producing unit is small on the average, 
and that farm products are usually unstandardized, perishable, seasonal, 
maturing at different times in different parts of the country, and sold 
through a larger number of retail estabhshments, accounts for the great 
need of specialization in their marketing. 

The difficulties involved in the direct marketing of farm products 
and the real services performed by the middleman are illustrated in an 
article on "Marketing Farm Produce by Parcel Post and E.xpress."'^ 
The advent of the parcel post was haled as one important means of 
reducing the cost of living by facihtating direct purchase from producer 
to consumer and so eliminating the profits of the middleman. To de- 
termine the value of direct purchase, the department of agricultural 
economics of the University of Wisconsin obtained information from 
over 200 farmers in the state who had some time before advertised their 
willingness to seU directly to the consmner, and from consumers who 
had used this method of purchase. The answers showed general dis- 
satisfaction with the system. From an analysis of these answers the 
writers have formulated certain conclusions as to the extent to which the 
direct sale of farm produce can reduce the cost of living under present 
conditions. 

" Hubbard, B. H. and Hobson, Asher: Marketing Farm Produce by Parcel Post and 
Express. Amer. Econ. Rev., v. 6, pp. 589-608. 



1918] MAGAZINE ARTICLES ON STANDARD OF LWLNG 13 

The problems which the farmer has to face are concerned with obtain- 
ing customers, method of pajTnents, cost of packing and transportation, 
and nature and quality of produce. The customer is concerned mostly with 
the quality of the product, and the convenience and cost of the service. 

The producer must have easy access to the station, and as a rule should 
not sell to a market of more than 200 miles radius, because of the cost of 
transportation. The method of getting into communication with cus- 
tomers varies. ^lost success has been obtained by personal soHcitation, 
although other plans such as correspondence, advertising, use of post- 
office lists, and industrial departments of express companies, may prove 
helpful. The fact that the farmer usually does not have much produce 
limits the use of advertising. Credit relations of some sort should 
be established between the producer and the consumer. Usually long 
distance marketing is done on a cash basis, so if no credit relations are 
estabhshed, the customer will have either to send the money with his 
order or to have the goods sent C. 0. D. Both of these the customer 
is often unwilling to do as neither allows of inspecting goods before 
acceptance. The cost of transportation varies with the distance, weight, 
and kind of produce, being more e.xpensive proportionately on small 
than on large packages. The cost of packing also varies with the size 
and weight of the article and tends to be much greater proportionately 
for small than for large articles. The produce must thus have high 
value as compared with bulk so as to stand the cost of transportation 
and of adequate packing. The supply must be dependable, more or 
less constant and not seasonal. (Poultry and dairy products best 
meet these requirements.) The commodities must be of good quahty 
or at least of constant quality. The farmer's failure to appreciate this 
necessity is a great drawback. Goods should be graded or standardized 
and carefully packed so that the consumer can have some assurance 
as to the quality of the product he is buying. For many products the 
customer wants small orders quickly and often. The direct method of 
sale is usually slow. The use of the telephone is not always convenient, 
and orders are sent by maO, necessitating delay of several days. The 
cost of transporation and of packing militates against small orders. 
These costs, the authors suggest, can be minimized by consumers' 
"buying clubs" — which, on the other hand, add new burdens of adminis- 
tration for the consumer. Evidently, only a specialized producer, 
with inclination and ability to cater to retail trade, who will assume 
the responsibilities of the retailer and acquire business customs and 
methods can succeed in selling directly to the customer. 



14 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [January 

On the whole, the authors conclude "that the parcel post in its present 
stage of development has not fuliilled the expectations of the farmer as a 
selling agent, however useful it may be to him along other hnes"; that 
it brings about no reduction in the cost of Hving for the consumer, on 
the other hand, it may even cause a sKght increase, although this slight 
increase may be offset by the freshness of the article. 

An account" of the organization, purpose, and work of the bureau of 
marketing, estabUshed in 1913 under the South Carolina Department of 
Agriculture, Commerce, and Industries, is given in the monthly Review 
of the U. S. Bureau of Labor Statistics. The purpose of the bureau 
is to become a clearing house for information between buyers and sellers 
of agricultural commodities, to lessen the difficulties of trade in farm 
products by finding a market for goods which might otherwise be a 
total loss. The Bureau keeps two lists, of commodities offered for sale, 
and of commodities wanted. The first Hst contains the name and address 
of those offering commodities, the kind and amount offered, and the 
price asked. The second list contains the name and address of people 
wishing commodities, the kind and amount desired, and the price. These 
fists are corrected to date and published each week in state newspapers. 
The success of the plan depends very largely upon the degree of coopera- 
tion between the newspapers and the producers. A marketing bulletin 
giving this information is also published weekly and sent to about two 
hundred merchants and those who take commodities in large quantities. 
People may also be informed of the wants and ofl'erings of the market 
by writing in to the bureau and learning the names and addresses of 
those who desire or are selling any particular commodities. Those 
having goods to sell and those wishing to buy them, can thus easily 
get into communication with each other. During the three and one- 
half years that the bureau had been in operation, only two complaints 
had been received and numerous expressions of approval. 

Several results have been attributed to the activities of the bureau — 
a greater diversification of crops, a more favorable attitude on the part 
of the farmer towards taxation, encouragement of the boys' and girls' 
canning clubs in efforts to improve farm conditions, and, of course, the 
estabUshing of a market for farm products which otherwise would be 
wasted. The bureau, after all, merely solves the problem of obtaining 
customers. Whether the system inaugurated actually results in lower- 

" Herndon, John G., Jr.: South Carolina's Bureau of Marketing. Monthly Review, v. 6, 
pp. 58-63. 



1918] MAGAZINE .ARTICLES ON STAND .ARD OF LIVING 15 

ing the cost of li\'ing is another question, and one which tlie report 
does not answer. The general conclusion must be that the elimination 
of the middleman under the present organization of our markets will 
not necessarily result in decreasing the cost of living. No doubt much 
can be accomplished by eliminating inefficient and dishonest and surplus 
middlemen. 

We have been uncritical of the statement that the normal American 
standard of living demands that the husband should be the sole support 
of his family or at least that his earnings should not be supplemented 
by income derived from the emplo\Tnent, outside the home, of the wife 
and younger children. The federal Keating-Owen Bill, regulating the 
hours and conditions of the emplojTtient of children engaged in mines 
and quarries and in the manufacture of goods entering into interstate 
commerce, shows that we are attempting to attain our standard in regard 
to the emplojTnent of children. This law went into effect September 1 . 
Whether our assumption is true that the American standard of living 
does not permit of the gainful employment of married women outside 
the home, is chstinctly doubtful, especially in view of the statistics of 
women at work, based upon the 1910 census, which will soon be available. 

Dr. Rubinow, in his first article on real wages, ascribed the apparent 
increase in comforts enjoyed by the workingman's family to the Increased 
employment of women in industry. The emploj-Tnent of women in 
industry since 1870 has been characterized by great increase in the num- 
ber employed and by a change in the character of the work which women 
have entered. Since 1870 the number of women at work has increased 
at a rate greater than the increase in the total number of women, and 
the increase in the number of men employed in industry. The propor- 
tion of the total number of women employed in the classes of 
occupations known as domestic and personal pursuits and in agri- 
cultural pursuits has decreased, while the proportion employed in pro- 
fessional pursuits, in trade and transportation, and in manufacturing 
and mechanical pursuits has increased, in the latter, however, not so 
rapidly as in the other two. Advance sheets of the special report upon 
women at work, based upon the 1910 census, bring out another tendency. 
The proportion of all married women who are at work, and the proportion 
wliich married women constitute of the total number of women employed, 
has steadily increased, the greatest increase occurring during the decade 
1900-1910. The report shows that in 1890, 4.6 per cent, in 1900, 
5.6 per cent, and in 1910, 10.7 per cent of all married women si.xteen 



16 THE jotTRNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [January 

years of age and over were gainfully employed; that in 1890, 14.3 per 
cent, in 1900, 15.9 per cent, and in 1910, 25.4 per cent of all women six- 
teen years of age and over employed in industry were married women. 
The increase in the employment of married women in the decade 1900 to 
1910 is remarkable and in most instances probably due to necessity. Dur- 
ing this same period the total number of women employed almost doubled. 
Dr. Rubinow's surmise as to the cause of the improvements in comforts 
of the working class is verified by these data. Very evidently the forces 
at work in society which are tending to take women out of the home into 
industry, are carrying married women out also — even the married woman 
with a family. 

Some idea of the changes which may take place in the position of 
women in the United States as a result of our entrance into the war may 
be gained from a knowledge of such changes as have accompanied the 
necessary shifting in industry in England.'* Over half a million women 
entered the ranks of English working women between the outbreak of 
the war and the spring of 1916. The January, 1917, number of the 
British Labor Gazette estimates that in October, 1916, the net increase in 
the number of women engaged in industry outside the home since the 
war began is in round numbers 850,000.'^ Certain tendencies shown before 
the war have been intensified during the war. The dechne in the pro- 
portion of all women at work engaged in domestic ser\-ice and in agri- 
culture has continued, while an enormous increase has occurred in the 
number and proportion of women employed in the "non-industrial" oc- 
cupations of banking and finance, of transport, and in government em- 
ploy. The war has thus opened up to women many occupations which 
prejudice, tradition, and custom have closed to her. The article dis- 
cusses such questions as the manner and extent to which women are re- 
placing men in industry, the effect of newer, heavier work upon the health 
of women workers, the wages received by women as compared with those 
they received before the war, and those received by men. Another prob- 
lem to be considered is the very important one of the employment of 
women after the war. This is, of course, now largely a matter of specu- 
lation. We can be sure of one thing, and that is that conditions will 
be different after the war. Many forces will operate to keep women in 

'♦ Women in Industry in Great Britain during the War, based on a study carried on under 
the direction of the British .'Association for the ."Advancement of Science. Monthly Review oj 
the U. S. Bureau of Labor Statistics, v. 4, pp. 335-346. (Only certain points of this article 
can be referred to here, but it is well worth reading.) 

" Monthly Review, v. 4, p. 347. 



1918] MAGAZINE ARTICLES ON STANU.AJID OF LIVING 17 

industry in increasing numbers. All classes of women have gone into 
industry, but the majority are working women or the wives of working 
men. Many have gone to work as a patriotic duty, but many more have 
been actuated by the need of adding to the family income. Some will 
not remain and yet for large numbers the necessity or desire to earn 
money will continue. Then, too, the replacement of men by women has 
in many instances been accomphshed by the reorganization of the in- 
dustry, or by the introduction of new machines which the employer will 
refuse to scrap. These changes have been based upon the capacitj- of 
woman rather than of man labor. The demand for labor will undoubtedly 
be great, and not necessarily of the kind in existence before the war. 
The opportunities and inducements for the employment of women out- 
side the home will be many. Will these forces operate to increase great- 
ly the number of married women in industry? If so what effect will it 
have upon our standard of living — upon the organization of the house- 
hold? 

We may conclude that one important measure of the value and suc- 
cess of the teachings of home economics will be found as they affect the 
standard of living. Improvement in standards may be brought about 
(1) by increase in the purchasing power of money due to better produc- 
tion or to increased income or to both, (2) by better consumption of goods. 
We have, on the whole, relied on the first method for improvements in 
our standard. Because of the fact that the prices of goods which con- 
stitute the bulk of expenditures of the ordinary family are increasing 
more rapidly than the incomes of such famihes, because of the enormous 
waste involved in warfare, the necessity for wiser consumption is upon 
us if we are to maintain an adequate standard of living. This involves 
the application of scientific and business principles to the home, the 
better organization of the household, which will allow considerable la- 
bor to be used more productively, and the setting up of better, truer 
values in the home. 

CORRECTION 

Footnote 4 in the first part of this article in the December Jour- 
nal should read: 

'Jones, F. W. Real Wages in Recent Years. Anter. Econ. Rev., v. 7, pp. .319-330. 



18 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [January 

FAT ABSORPTION IN FRYING DOUGHNUTS 

MARY C. McKEE 
From the Laboratory of Food Chemistry, Home Economics, University of Chicago^ 

In carrying out investigations as to the chemical changes which take 
place in deep-fat frying some preliminary work has been done to ascer- 
tain the variations in absorption of fat in fr>-ing doughnuts made by 
different recipes. An account of this work is given in this paper. 

Doughnuts made by a recipe which has given good results in the cook- 
ing laboratories of the University were used as a basis for the work. 



^r.^ 


GRAMS 


OR APPROXIMATELY 




300 

84 
34 
340 

25 

681 -t- 28 
in rolling 
dough 


used 
out 


IJ cups 




2 cups 




3 tablespoons 


Milk 


IJ cups 




6 teaspoons 




6 cups 







This dough contained 5 per cent of fat or ether-soluble substance as 
shown by analysis. By making allowance for the average increase in 
weight in frying, the fat in the dough of the standard fried doughnut as 
opposed to the fat taken up in frying may be computed to be approxi- 
mately 4 per cent of its cooked weight. 

The doughnuts were rolled out in an embroidery hoop 18 cm. in diame- 
ter and 1 cm. high, cut by a medium-sized cutter — outer diameter 6.5 
cm., diameter of hole 2.1 cm. — and fried in deep cottonseed oil for five 
minutes at a temperature of 200°C. After they were lifted from the fat, 
and allowed to drain a few seconds, they were wrapped in paper napkins 
until cool enough to handle easily. Made in this way the doughnuts 
were always hght, of good flavor, and not unusually greasy. They might 
well be classed as a good average homemade product. Cottonseed oil 
at 200°C. was chosen as the frying medium, after preliminary experiment 
with other fats and temperatures, both because of its convenience and 
of the fact that it gave consistently pleasing products. 

The raw doughnuts were weighed just before and after frying. There 
was always a gain, varying between 19 and 24 per cent of the raw weight, 
thus showing that the loss in water was more than balanced by the gain 
in fat. 

' This work was done under the direction of Dr. Katharine Blunt. 



1918] 



FAT ABSORPTION IX FRYING DOUGHNUTS 



19 



To obtain a fair sample of the fried doughnuts for determination of the 
fat it was found best to allow them to dry in the air for two days, noting the 
loss of weight which averaged about 1.3 per cent of the original fresh weight. 
Two of them were then ground in a meat grinder, mixed thoroughly, and a 
sample at once removed to a weighing bottle. The figures for the per cent of 
fat as given below are calculated on the basis of the weight of the freslily fried 
doughnut. 

Some of the fat determinations were made by the usual method, drying 
first to constant weight in a vacuum desiccator, and then e.xtracting with 
anhydrous ether for eight to ten hours in an extraction apparatus. For 
other determinations the Polenski- method, slightly modified, was used, since 
it had been found by previous workers that the direct extraction methods 
were not always satisfactory for the determination of fat in bread stuffs. 
About 4 grams of the fresh, air dried sample were hydrolyzed by boiling for 
30 minutes in 25 cc. of f hydrochloric acid, the acid neutraUzed, and the well- 
cooled mixture shaken with alcohol, ether, and petroleum ether. The ether 
layer was allowed to separate, then half of it was blown into a pipette by an 
aspirator and filtered through cotton into a weighed flask, the ether distilled 
off, and the residue dried and weighed. It was found that the results obtained 
by the two methods agreed more closely than duplicates for different frying 
experiments. 

The results of the experiments are given in the f olowing table : 



Standard 

Standard 

Egg doubled 

Egg quadrupled 
Flour increased | 

Fat doubled 

Fat quadrupled . . 

Sugar doubled 

Sugar quadrupled 



WEIGHT 
OF RAV; 
DOUGH- 
NUTS 



137.5 



108.7 
139.5 

131.0 
136.5 
135.2 
135.8 



163.8 



140.0 
168.0 

142.0 
184.5 
187.5 
192.8 



19.1 



28.9 

20.5 

'24.5 
124.6 
143.9 
143.0 
(48.0 
147.6 
143.2 
(45.2 

The doughnut disintegrated ab- 
sorbing large quantities of fat. 



8.4 
35.2 
38.7 
42.0 



per cent 

[33.8 
I33.7 
|36.0 
35.2 



34.7 



24.6 
43.4 
47.8 
44.2 



579. 



« E. Polenski. Arbeiten aus dem Kaiserlichen Gesundheitsamte, 33 (1910), pp. 563- 



20 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [January 

These results show, first of all, that the per cent of fat in all the dough- 
nuts was remarkably high — an average of 34.7 per cent for the standard 
recipe and 38.9 per cent for all. Other experiments, carried out at this 
time but not pubhshed, in which temperature, size of doughnuts, and 
kind of fat used in frying were varied, confirm this high value for the 
fat of homemade doughnuts, since from over 30 determinations an aver- 
age fat content of 33 per cent of the cooked weight was found. Com- 
puted for a single standard doughnut of 44 grams, this gives nearly 15 
grams of fat or almost 1| tablespoonfuls. 

This amount of the fat is much higher than that given in Bulletin 
28' — 21.0 per cenr — and than that found by analysis of doughnuts pur- 
chased in two different stores in Chicago — 21.0 per cent and 25.6 per 
cent. The commercial doughnuts tasted less sweet than ours and were 
doubtless made from plainer recipes, so that their smaller fat content 
might be expected from the rest of our work. 

Varying the recipe makes a marked difference in the fat taken up 
by frying. When the egg was increased fourfold the ether-soluble con- 
tent of the dough itself was of course slightly increased, though the 
increase was offset to some extent by the addition of 200 more grams of 
flour which were needed to make the dough stiff enough for rolling. 
Yet, as shown in the table, there was a marked decrease in the total fat 
of the fried doughnut. Instead of the 34.7 per cent for the standard 
recipe, this egg-rich doughnut contained only 24.6 per cent. The 
doughnut made by this recipe was yellow in color, light, of good flavor, 
but showed a tendency to form tunnels. 

Doubling the fat in the recipe and then increasing it fourfold increased 
the absorption of fat greatly in excess of the added fat in the dough. 
Even the greater change in the recipe merely changed the fat in the 
fried doughnut, the fat of the dough itself, from 4.0 to 6.7 per cent, yet 
the total fat went up to 47.5 per cent. The doughnuts so made were all 
hght and fluffy, but were quite greasy. 

Upon doubhng the sugar in the recipe the fat content of the cooked 
doughnut rose to 44.2 per cent. The doughnuts were crisp, brown, 
and greasy. When the sugar was increased fourfold, the doughnuts 
disintegrated in the fat and the crumb absorbed great quantities of it. 

The experiments thus show that doughnuts may take up a high per- 
centage of fat in frying, the amount of fat absorbed varying with 
variations in the recipe. It is increased by increasing the fat and the 
sugar in the dough and decreased by increasing the egg and the flour. 

' The Chemical Composition of .Vmerican Food Materials. U. S. Dept. Ai;r., Office E.\pt. 
Stas. Bui. 28. 



1918] THE NEW FOOD CARD 21 

THE NEW FOOD CARD 

The United States food administration is to issue a new card giving ad- 
ditional directions to those on the first home card. Everyone is asked 
to maintain rigidly a minimum of at least :^ 

One Wheatless day each week and one Wheatless Meal each day; the 
wheatless day to be Wednesday. By wheatless we mean to eat no wheat 
products. 

One Me.\tless day each week which shall be Tuesday and one meatless 
meal each day. By meatless we mean to eat no red meat — beef, pork, mut- 
ton, veal, lamb; no preserved meat — beef, bacon, ham or lard. 

One Porkless day each week in addition to Tuesday, which shall be Sat- 
urday. By porkless we mean no fresh or salted pork, bacon, ham or lard. 

SuG.AR — You can materially reduce sugar by reducing the use of candy and 
sweet drinks. We will make every endeavor to see that the country is pro- 
vided with a supply of household sugar on the basis of 3 pounds of sugar for 
each person per month. Do not consume more. 

As a nation we eat and waste 80 per cent more protein than we require to 
maintain health. Therefore, we can reduce the amount of meat we eat with- 
out harm. 

We eat and waste 140 per cent more fat than is necessary. 

Of the carbohydrates we can just as well consume corn, oats, and the other 
cereals as wheat and we have abundant supplies of potatoes and vegetables. 

Do not limit your supplies of milk and table butter; but consume it all. 
Do not wa te any. 

You can reduce the consumption of fats by reducing pastry and fried foods. 

Remember the gospel of the clean plate, the serving of small portions, the 
purchase of less supplies. 

The card warns against hoarding : 

Any person in the United States who buys more foodstuffs than he custo- 
marily keeps at home in peace times is defeating the Food Administration 
in its purpose to secure a just distribution of food and in its great endeavors 
to reduce prices. The hoarding of food in households is not only unnecessary, 
as the Government is protecting the food supply of our people, but it is selfish 
and is a cause of high prices. 

Such actions multiplied by thousands increase the demands upon our rail- 
ways for cars, and already, because of our military demands, it is with e.xtreme 
difficulty that we can now move the vitally necessary food to markets. 

The "insidious propaganda" against conservation and increased i>ro- 

' This is only the first draft, not the final form of the card. 



22 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECOXOMics [January 

duction is called "direct assistance" to those against whom ^ye are 
fighting. 

The reverse side of the card carries the following message: 

To Members of the United States Food Administration: 

The food situation in Europe is far graver than when the preliminary survey 
of the food supply of the world for this year was made. Beyond the de- 
mands of the Allies there is a call upon us by the friendly neutrals for food 
supplies, and, if we can not at least in part respond to these neutral calls, 
starvation on an unparalleled scale must ensue. 

Food has now taken a dominant position in the war, and we must ask the 
American people to sacrifice far more than was at first thought necessary. 
We have exported the whole of the surplus of the wheat from this harvest 
after reserving to ourselves an amount sufficient for our normal consumption 
of seed and flour until the ne.xt harvest, and therefore the amount of wheat flour 
that the United States can contribute to mix with the war bread of the Allies 
during this winter will be exactly the amount which our people have saved 
each month on their behalf. 

The Allies today ask for 25 per cent more meat and fats (pork, dahy prod- 
ucts and vegetable oils) than our monthly production permits us to send them 
unless we can consume less. Due to the shortage in shipping, our available 
sugar supplies must be less than normal from the present time forward. 

If we are to reduce the consumption of the few products which we should 
export abroad, we shall need to eat a larger proportion of many different 
foodstuffs which we can not e.xport and which we have at home. For this 
reason we Must Not waste Any food stuffs. 

We must not overlook the fact that Russia collapsed not because of the 
Germans on her borders but largely because of the failure to organize and feed 
her own citizens, and, if we are to emerge victorious from this war, we can 
not risk the collapse of another of the Allies from this same cause. There is 
no waste of food among any of the Allies — there is the most drastic reduction 
in their consumption; there is actual privation among their women and chil- 
dren; there is starvation in Belgium. 

It is a matter for the conscientious consideration of every individual that 
he or she should eat only that which is necessary to maintain bodily health 
and strength and unselfishly to select those foodstuffs the use of which re- 
heves international necessities. In this winter of 1918 lies the period when 
there will be tested in this great free country of ours the question as to 
whether or not our people are capable of voluntary individual self-sacrifice 
to save the world. 

Herbert Hoover, 
United States Food Administrator. 



FOR THE HOMEMAKER 

VEGETABLE OILS AND THEIR USE IN COOKING 

KATHARINE BLUNT 
University of Chicago 

The Food Administration asks us to be careful in the use of all fats 
but particularly animal fats and particularly butter in cooking. From 
the bakers, fat economies have been required. Heretofore they have 
used in bread from 2 to 10 pounds of shortening per barrel of flour or an 
average of 6 pounds. Now they may use only 2 pounds per barrel and 
this 2 pounds must be either all vegetable fat or a compound containing 
not more than 15 per cent animal fat. Of the housekeeper requests are 
made, not requirements. It therefore behooves us to bring together 
our knowledge of the numerous fats on the market, especially the vege- 
table fats — what they are, how they are prepared, and how vegetable 
fats may be substituted for butter and other animal fats. 

Oleomargarine is sometimes made wholly of animal fat but more often 
of a mixture of animal and vegetable. Its components vary somewhat 
but usually the chief fats contained in it are the softer part of beef fat 
called oleo oil, lard, cottonseed, or peanut oil, and in the more expensive 
grades, a little butter. The mixture is churned up with milk to give as 
nearly as possible the texture and taste of butter. It is manufactured 
under government supervision and the process is exhibited to the public 
with particular pride in at least one of the big Chicago concerns. Oleo- 
margarine is popularly called either oleo or butterine but the longer term 
is the legal one for any table fat made as a substitute for butter. Nut 
margarin is usually a mixture of coconut oil (a soft soHd in this northern 
country), and cottonseed or peanut oil, whichever happens to be the 
cheaper, churned with milk. 

The vegetable oils on the market are constantly increasing. In many 
sections of the country the chief ones, besides olive, are now cottonseed 
oil and corn oil, sold under trade names as Wesson oil and Mazola re- 
spectively, and usually at a price much lower than olive oil and about 
the same as lard. Peanut oil, too, is available in some places and even 

23 



2-t THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [January 

sesame and soy-bean oil. Much vegetable oil is now converted into a 
solid fat by a process the development of which makes one of the most 
interesting chapters of the application of chemical research to manufac- 
turing. Any one of the oils, cottonseed, corn, peanut, is mixed with a 
"catalyzer," usually powdered nickel, and hydrogen is passed in under 
carefully controlled conditions of heating and pressure. Part of these 
liquid fats react with the hydrogen to fonn the solids, thus yielding a fat 
of any desired degree of hardness. After the nickel is filtered out and 
the fat cooled, it is usually about the consistency of lard, but without the 
characteristic taste or odor. Several firms now put out these hydrogen- 
ated oils under various trade names — crisco, crusto, etc. The older 
lard substitutes, snowdrift, cottolene, and the like, are mixtures of ani- 
mal and vegetable products, chiefly beef stearin and cottonseed oil. 

The fats and oils are all essentially alike in their composition since 
they all consist of mixtures of solid and liquid glycerides, so named from 
the glycerine which may be made from them and which is of especial 
interest just now because it is necessary in making high explosives. 

The characteristic flavors and odors of the different fats are due not 
to the glycerides, which are tasteless and odorless, but to unknown 
substances present in minute amounts. The more thoroughly an oil is 
refined the less of these substances is left in it. Cottonseed oil, for in- 
stance, when first expressed from the seeds is dark reddish brown in color 
and has a sharp, disagreeable taste and odor, but when ready for the 
market is practically neutral and almost free from taste and odor. It is a 
"bland" oil. The edible olive oil is not refined but merely filtered after 
pressing from the olives, and therefore retains more of its characteristic 
taste. 

There is even less difference in the beha\ior of the oils and fats in 
the body than there is in their composition. They are all practically com- 
pletely digested, all give the same amount of fuel, and all slow up diges- 
tion in the stomach, so that a meal very rich in fat may stay a long time 
in the stomach and discomfort may result. Butter fat and oleomarga- 
rine made from beef fat do have one advantage over the others, for they 
alone contain an unknown substance necessary to the growth of the 
young and the normal health of the adult. This substance is present in 
milk, of course, as butter contains it, and also in leaf vegetables, so that 
if we have a reasonable amount of these in our diet there is no danger of 
our lacking it even though we eat no butter, but for those with a very 
limited diet, oleomargarine is probably really safer than nut margarin 
or the vegetable oils. 



1918] VEGET.\BLE OILS XSD THEIR USE IN COOKING 25 

As to keeping qualities, the oils are possibly a little poorer than the 
solid fats but there need be very little difficulty if the oil is kept in the 
dark, in a closed vessel, and in a cool place. Cans are better containers 
than glass Jars or bottles because they keep out the light. 

Which of the various fats we use, therefore, is largely a question of 
habit. For frying, a variety has long been used. In our laboratories 
we have fried doughnuts in quick succession in half a dozen different 
fats, solid and liquid, and found that a preference for one or the other 
was more or less a matter of personal taste. One point to be considered 
is that the nearly neutral fats — such as cottonseed oil and its products — 
have a higher smoking temperature and are therefore more satisfactory 
to use than the others which may readily be heated up to their smoking 
temperatures. The amount of decomposition of the fat in frying has 
probably been exaggerated. The free acid in the fat is increased only 
very little, a few tenths of a per cent, even when the fat is heated above 
its smoking temperature. The much talked of acrolein with its irritating 
odor is probably formed but in such small quantity that it is difficult 
to get a positive test for it. We found, as have others, that it was im- 
portant to have the fat hot enough to brown the dough thoroughly, 
else it soaked up more fat. However, even under favorable conditions, 
deep fat frying may use up an appalling amount of fat. Our doughnuts, 
good ones, were often 33 per cent fat. This, calculated for a good-sized 
one, is the equivalent of more than 1| tablespoons for a single 
doughnut.' 

For shortening, vegetable oils can often be well used. Oils for pastry 
making are more or less of a novelty to most people but again and again 
this past summer Miss Elizabeth W. Miller of our department has had 
dehcious pie crusts made with cottonseed or corn oUs. The crust was 
friable rather than flaky as with the solid fats, but was still tender. 
The oil itself "moistened" the fiour so that the water had to be cut 
down, and then a satisfactory degree of richness was secured with one- 
third less of the oil than solid shortening. 

In cake, too, Miss Miller has used the oils with entire success. In the 
richest (which we should not make at all now) , a comparison of cakes 
made with butter and with oils showed a real difference in taste unless 
spices were used, but in the less rich only the person who had just trained 
herself could distinguish. We have compared gingerbread made with 
butter and with mutton fat, which has an especially strong flavor, and 
'For an account of experiments upon which this statement is based see page IS. 



26 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [January 

could not tell which was which by any difference in taste but only by a 
difference in texture. 

"The economy of substituting less expensive fats for those high 
priced luxuries can easily be seen," says a recent University of Illinois 
bulletin. "For example, one cup of mayonnaise dressing made of olive 
oil bought by the quart costs 27 cents, whereas if made of cottonseed 
oil, one cup costs 11 j cents. Again, the substitution of one cup of oleo- 
margarine for one cup of butter in a cake gave practically identical re- 
sults and reduced the cost by 85 cents. Partial substitution of Crisco 
might profitably have reduced it still further." 

Of course, much rich cake or pastry or frying is emphatically to be 
avoided, but these few suggestions are given to show that the fats we do 
use may be vegetable fats. These fats are harder to ship, and their pro- 
duction is the easiest to increase. We can use them and save animal 
fats and especially butter in cooking, with practically no hardship. 



Bake, boil, and broil more — fry less. — U. S. Food Administration. 



Tag-Your-Shovel Day is set for January 30. A tag will be provided 
not only for the coal shovel of every household in the country, includ- 
ing the White House, but for the shovels used in the public buildings, 
the National Capitol, State Capitols, and city halls. The school chil- 
dren are to do the distributing. "This tag should remind each man, 
woman, and child who uses a coal shovel that every shovelful of coal 
saved means just so much additional power and help and support for 
the American soldier and sailor on the firing line." 



1918] MARKETING CLUBS OF PITTSBURGH 27 

THE MARKETING CLUBS OF PITTSBURGH 

ALMA Y. JOHNSON 

It was in the early part of 1913, I believe, that Mrs. F. organized the 
marketing clubs of Pittsburgh and Allegheny County. 

In all there were about 34 or 35 of them. Mrs. F. is a splendid or- 
ganizer and aroused a great deal of enthusiasm among the women. We 
all thought we should be able to reduce the high cost of living very 
materially. 

I was one of the first members of the Pittsburgh Marketing Club and 
represented it at the State Federation one year. I was a member of the 
Bellevue Marketing Club which had a membership of more than three 
hundred and was, perhaps, the biggest success of all. I was a member 
of the first Avalon club and president of the second one. I knew, per- 
sonally, the presidents of several of the other clubs. 

If there are any marketing clubs in existence today I do not know 
where they are. All, I think, have gone to pieces. 

Many of them hung upon the success or failure of a curb market. 
These failed for two reasons. Few farmers were wiUing to sell their 
goods for less money on one street than they could get by driving around 
on several streets. They had their regular customers who would not 
come to the curb market, and it did not pay a farmer to lose his steady 
trade with these women. Then, too, the women found it inconvenient 
to stop their work and go out during the busiest time of the day, par- 
ticularly if they had children. 

The day of the universal market basket is past. Popular opinion to 
the contrary notwithstanding, it is not a matter of economy for every 
woman to go to market or to the grocery, herself. When she does go 
she sees so many things that she buys more than if she sent in an order 
over the telephone or by a boy. Then, too, she must stop her work, 
dress, and perhaps dress one or more children, go to the store, stand 
around half or three quarters of an hour, come home, redress herself and 
children and then pick up her work where she left off. 

One of the biggest grocers in Pittsburgh says he would give a large 
sum of money to anyone who could persuade the women to come to his 
store in person, because they always buy more. 

One marketing club failed because the chairman of the butter and egg 
committee, a very wealthy woman and prominent church worker, de- 



28 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [January 

cided to share in the profit and had part of the eggs sent to her home. 
From there she sold them to her friends at store prices. 

One failed because the women who did the actual selling of the goods 
at the distributing center were obliged to do hard manual labor and to 
serve, without remuneration, not the other members of the club, but 
their servants who were sent to buy the goods. 

One club gradually faded from existence until revived by the genius 
and enthusiasm of a new member. She did all the work, herself, all the 
buying and all the selling, keeping the goods, for the greater part of the 
time, in her own home. She served the club without pay and without 
thanks. When eggs were broken she used them and paid as much for 
them as the other women paid. She made a fruit cake one night after 
twelve o'clock because that was the only time she had, and the crate of 
eggs had come with two dozen broken. During this period the club 
was a great success. 

But this woman had a long serious illness and when she returned to 
the club found that they owed more than eighty-five dollars over and 
above the worth of what was in the store. She went to work as never 
before until enough money was made to pay the debt and clear the name 
of the club. Then she quit. And the club was no more. 

The Bellevue Marketing Club, owing to the genius of Mrs. H., was a 
great success. She had a store where all sorts of things were sold. One 
committee bought butter, eggs, and cheese. One bought groceries, one 
poultry and country meats. The store did a business of from three to 
four thousand dollars a year. 

When Mrs. H. refused another reelection the club began to go back. 
This store required the same amount of personal attention and business 
ability that any store needs to be a success. The new president had 
not the time, enthusiasm, nor genius of Mrs. H. Moreover, the women 
were tired of giving the time and labor required for success, without 
receiving any return, even in the fonn of gratitude. 

Finally the store was closed. The president refused a reelection, no 
one could be found to accept the presidency and the club fonnally dis- 
banded in June, 1916. 

There were several reasons for the discontinuance of these clubs in 
addition to those I have mentioned. Wholesalers as a class refused to 
sell to us; we could not purchase an)rwhere as a grocer can, but were 
compelled to restrict our buying to a few firms. Women do not like 
to carry home heavy baskets and packages and should not be compelled 



1918] M.\RKETIXG CLUBS OF PITTSBtlRGH 29 

to carry such things very far. And groceries are heavy. Many women 
must buy where they can charge the goods because their husbands either 
cannot or will not give them cash in their purses; and many believe that 
when they do have cash to spend it is their duty to spend it in the store 
of the merchant who has extended credit to them in times past. 

We did, undoubtedly, buy goods much cheaper at the marketing club 
store, but it was because we carried home heavy baskets, paid cash, 
and because many women did hard work for which they were not paid, 
the president the most of all. 

Although the clubs disbanded they were not a failure, particularly in 
Bellevue. The women learned that they can get more and ought to 
get more for cash and that delivery costs the consumer just what it 
costs the dealer. 

At the earnest request of club members, R. and H., a grocery firm of 
Bellevue changed their plan of doing business and now sell only for cash. 
This store now makes two deliveries a day, only, in a restricted area, and 
two dehveries a week anywhere else. They make no special deliveries 
at ail. They have cut out three unlimited telephones. They used to 
call three to four hundred people every day. Now the women call 
them. They have also discharged four solicitors at $18 to $20 per week 
each. Those who do not telephone come to the store. They used to 
deliver three-fourths of all goods bought, now they deliver less than one- 
third. And they are doing 30 per cent more business. 

The customers save at least 12 per cent on their purchases. Mr. H. 
says 12 per cent is a very conservative estimate. 

AU are pleased. Neither the women nor the grocers would willingly 
go back to the old credit system. 

So the educational value was, after all, the greatest result of the 
marketing clubs. 



LOYALTY 



If put to the pinch, an ounce of loyalty is worth a pound of clever- 
ness.— £MJ?«f.yj Men's Calendar. 



30 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [January 

DO YOU KNOW CORN MEAL?' 

Its use means service to your country, nourishing food for you. 

Try corn bread and see how good it can be. There are many kinds. 
You will wonder why you didn't use it every day before the war. 

It is very nourishing, too. A cup of corn meal gives even more fuel 
to your body than a cup of wheat flour. 

Here is a quick kind of corn bread. Our grandmothers used to bake 
it on a board before the open fire. You can bake it in your oven. 

Corn Dodger 

2 cups corn meal 2 teaspoons fat 

1 teaspoon salt If cups boiling water 

Pour the boiling water over the other materials. Beat well. When 
cool, form into thin cakes and bake thirty minutes in a hot oven. Makes 
14 biscuits. These crisp httle biscuits are good with butter or gravy. 
Eat them with your meat and vegetables. 

Corn Saved Our Pioneers 

corn as bread 

Corn bread is especially good made with sour milk and soda; but 
sweet milk and baking powder are satisfactory. Eggs improve the 
flavor and add to the food value, but may be omitted if too expensive. 



(1) (2) 

2 cups corn meal 2 cups corn meal 

2 cups sweet milk (whole or skim) 2 cups sour milk 

4 teaspoons baking powder 1 teaspoon soda 

1 tablespoon sugar 1 tablespoon sugar 

2 tablespoons fat 2 tablespoons fat 
1 teaspoon salt 1 teaspoon salt 

1 egg imay be omitted) 1 egg (may be omitted^ 

Mix dry ingredients. Add milk, well-beaten egg, and melted fat. 
Beat well. Bake in shallow pan for about 30 minutes. 

' One of a series of leaflets issued by the United States Department of .\griculture and the 
United States Food Administration. They may be obtained from the Department of 
Agriculture. 



1918] DO YOU KXOW CORN MEAL? 31 

AK OLD SOUTHERN RECIPE 

Here is an old-fashioned soft spoon bread that Southerners like. 
With milk or sirup it makes a satisfying meal. 

Spoon Bread 
2 cups water 1 tablespoon fat 

1 cup milk (whole or skim) 2 eggs 

1 cup corn meal 2 teaspoons salt 

Mix water and corn meal and bring to the boiling point and cook iive 
minutes. Beat eggs well and add with other materials to the mush. 
Beat well and bake in a well-greased pan for twenty-five minutes in a 
hot oven. Serve from the same dish with a spoon. Enough for si.x. 

CORN MEAL AND MILK 

Do you use corn-meal mush for a breakfast food? It is both cheap 
and good. Cooked in skim milk instead of water it is extra fine and the 
food value of the dish is nearly doubled. 

Here is a delicious corn meal and milk dessert. 

Indian Pudding 

4 cups milk (whole or skim) f teaspoon salt 

\ cup commeal 1 teaspoon ginger 

\ cup molasses 

Cook milk and meal in a double boiler twenty minutes; add molasses, 
salt, and ginger. Pour into buttered pudding dish and bake two hours 
in a slow oven, or use your fireless cooker. Serve with milk. This 
makes a good and nourishing dessert. Serves six. 

CORN MEAL AND MEAT 

Com meal is good combined with meats. Such a dish is a meal in 
itself. Try this one. 

Tamale Pie 

2 cups corn meal 1 onion 

6 cups water 2 cups tomatoes 

1 tablespoon fat 1 pound hamburger steak 

Make a mush by stirring the corn meal and 1| teaspoons salt into 
boiling water. Cook forty-five minutes. Brown onion in fat, add ham- 
burger and stir until red color disappears. Add salt, pepper, and 



32 THE joxTRNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [January 

tomato. A sweet pepper is an addition. Grease baking dish, put in 
layer of corn-meal mush, add seasoned meat, and cover with mush. 
Bake one-half hour. Serves six. 

Corn Helps Us Feed the World 

The more we use the more food can be sent abroad. You need not 
tire of it, as there are at least fifty ways to use corn meal to make good 
dishes for dinner, supper, lunch, or breakfast. Here are some sugges- 
tions: 

Hot Breads Desserts Hearty Dishes 
Boston brown bread Corn-meal molasses cake Corn-meal croquettes 
Hoecake Apple corn bread Corn-meal fish balls 
Muffins Dumplings Meat and cornmeal dump- 
Biscuits Gingerbread lings 
Griddle cakes Fruit gems Italian polenta 
Waffles. Tamales. 

The recipes are in Farmers' Bulletin 565, "Corn Meal as a Food and 
Ways of using It," free from the Department of Agriculture. 



A NEW RULE FOR CORNMEAL GINGERBREAD 

1 cup cornmeal 1 teaspoon cinnamon 

1 cup flour i teaspoon cloves 
5 teaspoon soda 1 cup sour milk 

2 teaspoons baking powder 1 cup molasses 

J teaspoon salt 2 tablespoons melted shortening 

2 teaspoons ginger 

Sift together the dry ingredients; mLx thoroughly with the milk, 
molasses, and shortening,. Bake half an hour in a moderate oven. 

Two cups of buckwheat flour may be substituted for the cornmeal 
and flour in this recipe. This will have the characteristic flavor of 
buckwheat. If it is too strong, use only 1 cup of buckwheat and 1| 
cups of white flour. Two and a half cups of rye, or 2| cups of a mix- 
ture of rye and white flour might be used. In using rye and white 
flour a larger quantity is necessary because these flours absorb less 
liquid than do the cornmeal and buckwheat. 



STUDENT CONTRIBUTIONS 

AN ANALYTICAL STUDY OF SOME VARIETIES OF WHITE 

GOODS 

MARTHA FARNUM 

Under the direction of Ruth O'Brien 

Textile Chemistry Laboratories, Iowa Stale College 

Since this is a time when the welfare of our country depends so largely 
on the wise and judicious expenditure of money, it is extremely nec- 
essary that we should know as much as possible concerning the value 
of every article that we buy. This study was made in the hope of learn- 
ing something more definite about the comparative intrinsic worth of 
variously priced domestics, and of assisting the woman who so often 
wonders if it is "just as well" to buy 15 cent as 17 cent muslin, or muslin 
instead of cambric. Such problems frequently arise and are usually 
solved by the psychology of the moment without the help of any real 
information. In fact, there are so few scientific or popular publications 
on cloth analysis accessible to the housewife that such information is 
very hard for her to obtain. 

Moreover, the methods of determining the value of textile materials 
are not as yet very well worked out. There is no standardized method 
of testing them for their wearing qualities and we are forced to use such 
tests as breaking strength, yarn number, thread count. Of the three, 
breaking strength comes the nearest to estimating the durability of the 
material but this result only gives the tearing strength, and, as we do 
not often tear our clothes outright, it is very inadequate. If there were 
a standardized abrasive machine by which we could measure the resist- 
ance offered to constant wear we would be able to come nearer learning 
the true wearing qualities. Attempts have been made to perfect such 
a machine in this and other laboratories but no definite results have been 
obtained as yet. In this study we limited ourselves to the factors which 
seemed the most important from the housewife's standpoint, namely, 
breaking strength, thread count, and shrinkage. 



34 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [January 

EXPERIMENTAL 

In performing the tests for breaking strength, the method prescribed 
by the Bureau of Standards was used.' Test pieces were cut 8 inches 
long by Ij inches wide and threads were drawn from each side until the 
standard width of one inch was obtained. They were then subjected 
to a temperature of 105°C. for two hours and the breaking strength re- 
corded within thirty seconds. The machine used for this was an auto- 
matic cloth tester which pulled at the rate of 12 inches per minute. This 
method is known in textile laboratories as the strip method and seems 
to have met with the approval of more e-xperimenters than the so-called 
grab method. The chief objection to its use is that there are usually a 
number of yarns which remain unbroken. These have a slight but di- 
rect effect on the reading obtained and warrant corrections.^ However, 
at the present time, such corrections are available only for duck material 
and the uncorrected textile strengths are always reported.' 

For the determination of shrinkage two different methods were car- 
ried out. The first consisted of marking the pieces of material into sec- 
tions about 30 by 50 cm. These were then accurately measured, im- 
mersed in boiling water, allowed to remain over night, hung up without 
wringing, ironed when dry, and the shrinkage determined.'' This method 
is advocated by many analytical laboratories. The same kind of mate- 
rial was also shrunk in the following manner. The pieces used were full 
width strips about 18 inches long. They were measured accurately and 
allowed to remain for one hour in water which, although boiling when 
they were first immersed, gradually cooled down to room temperature. 
They were then dried, ironed, remeasured, and the shrinkage calculated. 
This method is one often resorted to by housewives and was used for 
comparison. The thread count was made according to the directions 
given by the Bureau of Standards' using a typical thread counting 
instrument. 

The materials used were purchased in February, 1917, at a retail store 
in a typical medium-sized Iowa town. These particular ones were chosen 
because their prices represented the purchasing possibilities of the aver- 
age woman. 

'Bureau of Standards, Bulletin 41, p. IS. 

' Proceedings of the American Society for Testing Materials, vol. 16, p. 370. 

• Proceedings of the .American Society for Testing Materials, vol. 16, p. 383. 

* Technical Testing of Yams and Textile Fabrics, J. Herzefeld, p. 143. 



1918] 



ANALYTICAL STUDY OF ■i\'HITE GOODS 



35 



From Table I it \vill be seen that with an increase in price there was 
not always corresponding increase in breaking strength, and when the 
price reached eighteen to twenty cents the strength had reached the 
maximum. For example: The weft way of eighteen cent cambric 
averaged higher than that of twenty cent cambric, whereas the warp 
remained practically constant; the warp of fifteen cent long cloth ex- 
celled the warp of twenty-five cent cloth while the results are just the 
opposite for the weft. Fourteen cent muslin and eighteen cent muslin 
were very nearly the same. Taking materials of the same price, the 
warp of the ten cent domestics averaged nearly the same while the wefts 
are quite different; fifteen cent nainsook was much lower than fifteen 
cent cambric ; also twenty-five cent nainsook was lower than the twenty- 
five cent cambric. 

TABLE I 

Tensile strength table (number of pounds) 
Less expensive materials 





10 CENT 


10 CENT 


12J CENT 


14 CENT 




Warp 


Weft 


Warp 


Weft 


Warp 


Weft 


Warp 


Weft 




30.2 


14.5 


27 

28.4 
28.5 


19 

14.3 
24.9 


29.2 

33.4 


21.7 
20 


34.2 
29.2 










21.4 


Muslins(poor quality unbleached) 


21.4 









More expensiv 


s raaterials 












15 CENT 


18 CENT 


20 CENT 


25 CENT 




Warp 


Weft 


Warp 


Weft 


Warp 


Weft 


Warp 


Weft 




27.9 
30.1 

20.6 


14.6 
22.7 

13.2 


31.7 
33.1 

42.6 


21.8 

21.2 
44.9 


31.6 
27,6 


15.5 
11.1 


37 
27.5 

25.1 


32.8 




28.1 












14.8 







These figures are the averages of ten good breaks made upon strips cut lengthwise of the 
material (warp) and ten good breaks made upon strips cut crosswise of the material (weft). 

In the determination of shrinkage (Table II) it was found that there 
was less shrinkage (in most cases) in the materials which were allowed 
to stand over night in water than in those which stood in the water only 
one hour. There was less shrinkage in the bleached than in the un- 
bleached muslin, and of the cheaper grades the twelve and one-half cent 
muslin had the least shrinkage. However, all the shrinkage values were 



36 



THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS 



[January 



TABLE n 

Shrinkage expressed in per cent 

Less expensive material 







10 CENT 


10 CEffT 


12} CENT 


14} CENT 




Warp 


Weft 


Warp 


Weft 


Warp 


Weft 


Warp 


Weft 






















Cambrics 


\a1I niglit in water 












3.2 
2.1 


1.9 

2.3 










Longcloth .... 


\a11 night in water 












1 


1 8 


? S 


1 ? 


7 .S 


1 6 


bleached 


\ All night in water 






1.7 





2.0 


0.3 


1.4 


1.7 


Muslins, 


1 hour in water, poor 
quality 


6.2 


3.3 


3.8 


3.1 


4.4 


2.7 


3.7 


4.S 


unbleaclied 


All night in water 


4.8 


2.7 


2.2 


3.0 


3.8 


3.4 


2.0 


3.6 


Nainsooks. . . . 


\ All night in water 





More expensive material 














15 CENT 


18 CENT 


20 CENT 


25 CENT 




Warp 


Weft 


Warp 


Weft 


Warp 


Weft 


Waip 


Weft 


„ , . (l hour La water 

Cambncs < .,, . , ^ . 

[ All night in water 

. , f 1 hour in water 

\A11 night in water 


2.6 
1.7 

2.2 
1.7 

2.0 
1.2 


1.6 

1.2 

1.8 
2.5 

3.9 
1.6 


2.6 
1.8 

2.5 
2.7 

5.3 
4.8 


3.1 

2.6 

2.4 
2.5 

4.3 
4.4 


2.7 
1.6 

2.6 
1.9 


1.9 

2.4 

2.0 
0.8 


2.6 
1.7 

1.7 
1.0 

1.5 
1.2 


0.4 


2.6 
1.3 


bleached. . . \a11 night in water 




unbleached \ All night in water 

, T • 1 /I bour in water 

Namsooks. ..<,,, . , , . 

^All night in water 


0.8 
0.4 



large enough to warrant consideration in the making of underwear and 
articles for household use. For example: according to these figures an 
ordinary skirt band would shrink | to 1 inch, and skirts 35 to 40 inches 
in length would shrink 1 to 1^ inches. From the table it wiU be noted 
that there was generally less shrinkage and consequently less necessity 
of allowing for shrinkage in such cases. 



1918] 



ANALYTICAL STUDY OF ^VHITE GOODS 



37 



The thread count (Table III) in most cases increased with an increase 
in price. These results compare rather favorably with the breaking 
strengths, but less so with shrinkage except in the case of the twenty- 
five cent grades. 

TABLE ni 

Variation in thread count {per inch) 

Less expensive materials 







10 CENT 


10 CEOT 


12J CEwr 


U CENT 




Ends 


Picks 


Ends 


ricks 


Ends 


Picks 


Endt 


Picks 


Cambric 


f before washing 


49 
50 


39 
42 


68 
70 

68 
69 

48 
49 


56 
56 

57 
60 

50 

52 


76 
78 

52 
53 


70 

71 

43 
50 


81 
83 

49 
50 




Longcloth .... 


f before washing 








81 


bleached . . . 
Muslins, poor 


\after washing 


79 

S3 


quality 




♦ 


unbleached 






Nainsooks .... 













More expensive 


materials 














15 CENT 


18 CENT 


20 CENT 


25 ciirr 




Ends 


Picks 


Ends 


Picks 


Ends 


Picks 


Ends 


Picks 


„ , . / before washing 

Cambric < ,^ ,. 

(^ after washing 


72 

74 

76 
80 

71 

75 


66 
69 

74 
76 

72 
75 


79 
81 

85 
86 

44 
47 


73 

74 

76 

77 

48 
51 


102 
107 

84 
87 


89 
92 

72 
75 


105 
106 

100 
103 

94 
94 


96 
98 

116 




119 










Muslins /before washing 




.., . , f before washing 

Nainsooks. . ■ ■ i ,, , . 


79 
80 







' Ends" refer to the warp yams and "picks" to the weft yams. 



38 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [January 



With an increase in price, then, there is not always an increase in 
breaking strength. In several cases (as in nainsooks, bleached muslins, 
and cambrics) the medium grades compare favorably with the higher 
grades and sometimes surpass the higher grades in tensile strength. 
From this we may conclude that in most cases it is advisable to buy a 
medium grade. 

The increase in shrinkage in the materials which stood only one hour 
in water over those which stood over night in water may be due to the 
fact that when the yarns are first contracted by the hot water in one case 
they have less time to relax back into their normal condition than they 
do in the other. But since this did not occur in all cases we are not pre- 
pared as yet to estabhsh the theory that cloth which remains a long time 
in water shrinks less than that which remains in water only a short time. 
Further investigation on the subject would be necessary. 



A REQUEST FROM THE BUDGET COMMITTEE 

A revised edition of Thrift By Household Accounting, 2000 copies of 
which have been sold, will shortly be pubHshed. The Budget Com- 
mittee invites criticisms and comments on the present edition. Sug- 
gestions are desired as to how the introductory discussion on the keep- 
ing of accounts can be made more useful; also as to the account forms 
themselves. There is also a question as to whether the book would 
be more useful if it included the accounts for a longer period than three 
months, as at present. 

Suggestions with regard to these, or other aspects of the Thrift Book 
are invited and should be sent to the Budget Committee, American 
Home Economics Association, 1211 Cathedral St., Baltimore. 



EDITORIAL 

Ruskin's phrase, "the economy of your great grand-mothers and the 
science of modern chemists" might be transposed in these days of war. 
Often it is the chemist's discoveries that teach us thrift, and over and 
over again we find that the "glorified common-sense, " which is one defi- 
nition of science, was a characteristic of our great grand-mothers. 

Women of many generations ago found out by experiment that the 
scalding of the vinegar or the syrup and pouring it hot over the pickle 
or preserves for three days in succession insured these products against 
ferments and molds. Only a few days ago a leading worker in agricul- 
ture told of watching his grandmother save and dry orange peel that 
she might have it to "make the jelly jell;" he had remembered it but 
never saw the reason until he was looking over some of his wife 's home 
economics books. 

The suggestion reported by Miss Stanley', of a 30 per cent starch paste 
"to take the place of the elastic gluten of wheat" is another instance 
where the " findings " of modern chemists merely verify the "doings" of 
the grandmothers. 

Before the days of patent spring wheat flours or of the compressed 
yeast — which means before the Centennial Exposition at Philadelphia in 
1876 — it was a common habit of the best bread makers to scald a por- 
tion of the flour for making the yeast or "hght" bread. 

Sometimes this was the method; half a cup or more of the flour was 
scalded at noon, and when luke-warm a portion of dried yeast cake rolled 
or pounded fine was stirred through the starchy paste; by night this had 
become a Hvely yeast and was enough to start dough for two or more 
loaves of bread. This same plan is followed, is it not, when the rolled 
oats have scalding milk poured over them, or the corn meal is scalded 
when it is used in a white loaf? 

Another way of getting at the same end was probably accompUshed 
when the homemade potato yeast was used. This might be made from 
cooked potatoes, but more often they were grated, and boihng water 
poured over them at once, thus forming a stifJ paste. To this when cool 
the cupful of yeast reserved from a similar lot was added with salt and 

'See Jour. H. E., December, 1917, p. 537. 

39 



40 THE jouiWAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [January 

sugar and left to rise till foamy. Often a little ginger was put in; per- 
haps it had been found to retard undesirable ferments. 

All these and many similar incidents seem to justify the old man whose 
neighbor twitted him saying, "Now your boy has come from college I 
suppose he is teUing you lots that you don't know. " To this the reply 
came, "No, he is only telling me the things I know, in words that I don't 
understand. " Yet eventually he might explain many of the things done, 
as well as modify many of the processes. 

In these days of stress our aim should be to gather together every scrap 
of inherited wisdom from the past and put it in words that he who "runs 
may read" and understand and do. 

If the trumpet give an uncertain sound who shall prepare himself for 
war? So also ye unless ye utter by the tongue speech easy to be under- 
stood, how shall it be known what is spoken— for ye will be speaking into 
the air. 

How shall he that filleth the place of the unlearned say Amen at thy 
giving of thanks, seeing he knoweth not what thou sayest; for thou verily 
givest thanks well but the other is not edified. 

I had rather speak five words with my understanding that I might instruct 
others also, than ten thousand words in an unknown tongue. — St. Paul. 

Anna Barrows. 



COMMENT AND DISCUSSION 

To the Journal of Home Economics: 

The article by Miss Ravenhill on the Scope of Home Economics gives 
workers in that line food for much thought. 

It appears to the writer that Miss Ravenhill does not realize how far 
the world's Hving habits are behind the knowledge it possesses in many 
lines. 

Many of the faults she attributes to home economics should, it appears, 
be charged to the Pubhc Health Association. It is to be remembered 
that that association has celebrated its fiftieth anniversary, while Home 
economics can not as yet be said to have been at all generaOy taught for 
even half that time. While saying this I remember that three state 



1918] COMMENT AND DISCUSSION 41 

institutions started work between 1870-1874, and also that the Home 
Economics Association was organized in 1908. 

One other point of diiJerence with Miss Ravenhill is with her measur- 
ing unit. Hygiene is not the lens through which most home economics 
workers "focus all learning upon the advancement of hfe." That may 
be the best means of approach to home economics in England, but it is 
not in the United States. The department of public health unfortu- 
nately is among the last to be organized in many of our colleges. 

Here too it seems to me Miss Ravenhill shows some Jack of apprecia- 
tion of the machinery of education as it exists in the United States. 

No one department can claim for itself the whole field of knowledge. 
In actual practice, the work as outlined by Miss Ravenhill is conducted 
by at least four departments in most of the colleges. 

These seem to me the points in the article which are to be accounted 
for by the fact that Miss Ravenhill writes from the view-point of an 
EngUsh woman not entirely famihar with the development of home 
economics in the United States. 

The letter from Vice President Kinley is such an admirable statement 
of constructive criticism that I have nothing to add. 

Isabel Bevier. 

Professor Isabel Bevier: 

I am returning the Journal of Home Economics, which contains 
Miss Ravenhill 's article. With much that she says I am in agreement. 
We cannot get on without such articles. They make for progress. I 
tell my own class that we must never be too hard on the satirist, the critic, 
or even the kind of antagonist who attains his heaven of elation by merely 
throwing bricks; for whatever else they do, they compel us constantly 
to review our own scientific judgments. 

I agree with Miss Ravenhill 's general criticism of our undergraduate 
college courses; for what she says about the character of the undergrad- 
uate work in home economics is true, now, of pretty nearly all our under- 
graduate programs of study. I may be wrong, but for a long time I have 
felt that this evil is a result of the eS'ort to force into our educational sys- 
tem German methods and standards. We have forced the methods of 
the graduate student into our undergraduate curriculum. We have 
formed curricula that are intensely specialized. We have largely and 
in some cases utterly forgotten that the main purpose of education, at 
any rate in the first two, and possibly the first three, years of our college 



42 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [January 

courses is training for life and not for callings. In nearly all cases that 
have come under my observation it is true that departments and teachers 
present their subjects as if they had no relation to any other subjects 
in the universe. That, to my mind, is the principal defect of our present 
educational system from top to bottom. There is no coordinating force. 
The criticism, therefore, apphed with more or less justice by Miss Raven- 
hill to home economics, is equally applicable in all our departments of 
study. 

In the second place, however, I think that Miss Ravenhill misses, or 
fails to give due emphasis to one very important fact which, more than 
all others, accounts for the alleged lack of influence on the improvement 
of Hfe through the efforts of graduates in home economics. Aside from 
the fact that they are relatively few, aside from the fact that any such 
improvement requires generations and not years to permeate the life of 
a people, she forgets, as we all constantly forget, that, after all, most of 
the work that we are doing in college and university does not reach di- 
rectly into the homes of the great masses of the people. 

Her elaborate scheme of organization is fine on paper, but the multi- 
tudes of fathers and mothers with families of two to seven in four and 
six room houses, and with incomes of perhaps $15 to $20 a week, have no 
time or means for such coordination and practices, even if they knew 
about them. 

Aside from this, of course, we could easily find what to us are techni- 
cal defects in Miss Ravenhill 's scheme. It is, after all, a somewhat stilt- 
ed, a priori organization. We cannot so differentiate functions in life. 

This article, with all its points of excellence is, like, many others, 
another illustration of the fact that the world has been unable for a gen- 
eration or more to set and adhere to educational standards. The feeling 
of unrest and change is everywhere, in many cases without adequate 
reason. Moreover, the article is another illustration of the use of words 
which conceal knowledge. I sometimes think that all our departments — 
shall I say science? — are in danger of becoming what some think "soci- 
ology" and others think "education" is — sciences which tell what every- 
body knows in language that nobody understands. In this connection, 
by the way, I sometimes have wondered whether there was a household 
science rather than an art of the application of science to household affairs. 

D. KiNLEY. 

University of Illinois. 



BOOKS AND LITERATURE 



Any book or periodical mentioned in this department may be obtained through the 
Journal of Home Economics if the Journal price is listed. 



Food Poisoning. By Edward Oakes Jor- 
dan. Chicago: University of Chicago 
Press, 1917, p. 115. $1.00. By mail of 
the Journal, $1.05. 

Professor Jordan's book will prove a val- 
uable one for students and teachers of 
home economics in colleges. His classifi- 
cation of forms of food poisoning give a 
comprehensive view of the subject. The 
references both to case histories and to 
semi-popular literature are of such a nature 
that they can be used freely by students of 
the upper classes. As one would expect, 
the book is throughout marked by accuracy, 
caution in avoiding sweeping generaliza- 
tions, and by great good sense. The gen- 
eral view of the sources of infection as given 
in Chapter V is especially useful as is the 
discussion of parat>'phoid and of botulism. 
As is generally the case with a brief compre- 
hensive discussion of this sort, the reader 
wishes for more information on some points: 
for example, the symptoms of lead poison- 
ing, the amount of heating necessary to 
destroy some of the organisms, a discussion 
of sprue; but the book will be widely wel- 
comed as a very valuable and usable source 
of information. 

Ruth Wheeler, 
University of Illinois. 

Basic Quantity Food Tables. To be used in 
determining the daily issue of food to the 
hitchen. Prepared for the use of institu- 
tions by the Department of Public 
Charities, City of New York, July, 1917. 
For sale by Municipal Reference Li- 
brary, New York City. $1.25. 
These food tables, which are for the 
quick determination of the quantity of food 
necessary for a given number of persons 



are arranged in nine different dietaries for 
officers and staff, nurses, employees, tu- 
bercular patients, feeble minded children, 
lodgers, industrial workers, and hospital 
patients. 

The tables state the quantities of differ- 
ent kinds of food necessary for groups of 
100 or 200 to 250 and more, according to the 
numbers involved in New York City In- 
stitutions. The quantities are for a 28- 
day month with the number of times in this 
period each food appears in the dietary. 
The daily per capita allowance for each 
person is given as well as its multiples for 
2, 3, 4, 5, and multiples of 5 up to a maxi- 
mum for 100 or 200 or more persons. 

The tables are edited by Henry C. Wright, 
Deputy Commissioner of the Department of 
Charities, and are based on tables worked 
out by Mr. Charles S. Pitcher, of the Kings 
Park State Hospital. They will be ex- 
tremely valuable, both to the practicing 
institudon director and to those in charge 
of training dietitians. 

Lessons in Food Values and Economical 
Menus. Arranged by Alice Bradley 
of Miss Farmer's School of Cookery, 30 
Huntington Avenue, Boston, Mass., 
1917, pp. 29. $.25. 

Meals for Five on $6 a Week. By Josephine 
L. Bessems. Elgin, 111.: David C. Cook 
Publishing Company, 1916, pp. 28. $.25. 

Kitchenette Cookery. By .\nna Merritt 
East. Boston: Little, Brown and Com- 
pany, 1917, pp. 112. $1.00. 

The small pamphlet entitled Food Values 
and Economical Menus was first arranged 
for classes in Canteen Cookery from the 



43 



44 



THE JOXJRNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS 



[January 



Massachusetts Branch of the Special Aid 
Society for American Preparedness but the 
fact that it reached a third printing within 
two months shows that it meets a much 
wider need. It will be admirably suited 
for the individual housekeeper or for those 
groups who will be gathered next year for 
study of the problem of food supply. 

A short discussion of the function of foods 
and the requirement of the individual is 
followed by a table of one hundred calorie 
portions with suggestions as to the choice 
of a day's diet. The body's need forprotein 
is explained and provided for and the ash 
constituents and accessory substances are 
not forgotten. Six days' menus are given, 
accompanied by recipes and food values, 
with suggestions for various economies and 
substitutions. 

At the end there are given dietaries for 
children and rations for soldiers with the 
directions for building a tireless cooker and 
for cold pack canning. The thirty pages of 
the pamphlet are full of most valuable 
material. 

In contrast with the little pamphlet 
above, is the one, entitled "Meals for Five 
on Six Dollars a Week," which seems 
padded and full of platitudes. The discus- 
sion of food requirements is limited to re- 
quirements for fuel and repair with a slight 
mention of mijieral salts and nothing of 
accessory substances. The chapters on 
marketing and food economies contain 
many generalities but little material which 
is new or of much importance. Instead of 
a grouping of foods which will provide for 
an adequate diet in an elastic fashion, 
there are two sets of meals, one for summer 
and one for winter, which are given as 
scientifically and accurately balanced. The 
recipes given in the last chapter are those 
which are found in any cook book so that 
there seems no need for repeating them. 

There is a new and rapidly increasing 
group of housekeepers whose needs are not 
met by the usual cook book or household 
guide. These are the independent women 
who "love to cook what they eat rather than 



sit forever around a boarding house table," 
and have therefore made homes for them- 
selves even when confined to one room. 
For these women, "Kitchenette Cookery," 
will prove a boon indeed. This is an ex- 
ceedingly practical and helpful little book 
which shows that it is the product of per- 
sonal experience. 

The first part is taken up with advice as 
to the arrangement and equipment of work- 
ing space. The plans given are for a kitch- 
enette sex'en and one-half by two and 
one-quarter but they could be adapted to 
many other situations. Each need is pro- 
vided for with little expenditure of money 
but much of thought and ingenuitj'. Along 
with the descriptions there are many hints 
as to methods of work so that the reader is 
instructed unconsciously as to proper storage 
of food, and other details. In choosing 
utensils, emphasis is put upon suitability 
and efficiency rather than expense, and the 
aluminum roaster and pressure cooker are 
made to justify themselves by the many 
purposes they serve. A price list of the 
equipment is given in another chapter. 

A chapter is devoted to marketing with 
particular attention to the needs of a shop- 
per whose time is limited. There are many 
helpful hints as to amounts and methods as 
well as a short discussion of food values. 

The last part of the book is devoted to a 
description of tj'pical meals such as break- 
fast, luncheon, company dinner. The rou- 
tine of preparation and the recipes for the 
several dishes are given in such a way 
that an amateur could achieve a successful 
meal with their aid. The use made of the 
pressure cooker is especially interesting, and 
a chapter is given to meals prepared with 
its aid. Another chapter is devoted to the 
economical utilization of the ordinary sized 
can of vegetables or fruit which leaves a 
half a can to be disposed of in some way. 
Frances Swaii^, 
Chicago Normal College. 

War Food. By Amy L. Handy. Boston: 
Houghton Mifflin Company, 1917, pp. 76. 
$.75. By mail of the Journal, $.79. 
This book contains directions for drying 



1918] BOOKS AND LITER.4TTXRE 45 

fruits and vegetables and for canning by the recipes for substitutions in tlie planning of 

cold-pack method. meals. ItisavaUableforgeneral distribution 

Most of the material in the book is simi- through the Food Administrator of each 

lar to that found in Farmers' Bulletins 839 state, 
and 841. In the directions for canning, the 

time for processin ; the %egetables is in many The Book of Corn Cookery. Mary L. Wade. 

cases less than that given in Bulletin 839. Chicago: A. C. McClurg & Co., 1917, pp. 

Since experience has shown that the sterili- 105. 

zation of some vegetables is very ditEcult, a The book consists chiefly of recipes gath- 

reduction in the time of processing cannot ered from many sources and different parts 

be recommended. of the country. It deals with breads, cake, 

Elizabeth W. Miller pones, mush, hominy and gruel, sweet com 

Unhirsity of Chicago. and di;>hes made from it, and desserts and 

candies. 

War Economy in Food. Washington, D. C. : The book is put out in attractive form, 

The U. S. Food Administration. and the recipes are practical and iUgges- 

This pamphlet contains suggestions and tive. 



BIBLIOGRAPHY OF HOME ECONOMICS 
PERIODICAL LITERATURE 

Foods and Cookery 

Some Sugar Saving Sweets for Every Day. May B. Van Arsdale and Day Monroe, 
Teachers College Record, Nov. 1917. 

Cereals We Ought to Eat. Mary S. Rose, The Farmers' Wife, Nov. 1917. 

The Milk Pitcher in the Home. Mary S. Rose, The Farmers' Wife, Oct. 1917. 

Edible Vegetable Oils. Glenn H. Picard, Amer. Food Jour., Nov. and Dec, 1917. 

Our Food and Our Bodies. Harry E. Barnard, Nat. Food Magazine, Aug. and Sept. 
1917. 

Shall Wasteless Meals be Tastele s? Sarah Hoffman, Amer. Cookery, Dec. 1917. 

Our Daily Bread. Bruno Lasker, Suniey, Oct. 20, 1917. 

Laxative Food Preparations and their Composition. John Phillips Street, Modern 
Hospital, Dec. 1917. 

The Pedigreed Chee.es of France. Blanche McManus, Amer. Cookery, Nov. 1917. 

Food Economy in War Time. E. and L. Brewster, Nat. Food Mag., Sept. 1917. 

A Controlling Basis for the Economical Use of Supplies. H. J. Moss, Modern Hospital, 
Nov. 1917. 

Differential between Packaged Foods and Foods in Bulk. W. T. Sherer, Amer. Food. 
Jour., Nov. 1917. 

The Truth about the Price of Meat. J. Ogden Armour, Collier's Sept. 1915. 

The Cost of Marketing Eggs in 1917. Paul Mandeville, Amer. Food Jour., Nov. 1917. 

The Road to Economy. Eleanor Wilson, Amer. Cookery, Oct. 1917. 

Reptiles as Food. Prof. A. M. Reese, The Scientific Monthly, Dec. 1917. 

An Explanation of the Practical Side of Baking Powder Manufacture — Its Chemistry — 
Its Arithmetic. Jesie F. Caplin, School Sci. and Math., Dec. 1917. 

Beware of the Calorie. Literary Digest, Dec. 8, 1917. 



46 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [January 

The Story of Sugar. L. J. De Bekker, The Outlook, Dec. 5, 1917. 
Digging at the Root of the Food Problem. The Outlook, Dec. 5, 1917. 
Photography as a Food Saver. Literary Digest, Dec. 8, 1917. 
Those First Cousins, Salads and Custard. The House Beautiful, Dec. 1917. 

Nutrition 

Oatmeal Gruel in Infant Feeding. A. Levinson, Arch. Fed. 34 (1917), No. 9. pp. 707-714. 

The Importance of the Pre-School Period to the School Child. Julius Levy, Arch. Fed. 
34 (1917), no. 11, pp. 837-845. 

The Intradermal Reactions to Proteins of Infants Suffering from Gastroenteric Disorders. 
V. D. Greer, Arch. Fed. 34 (1917), no. 11, pp. 810-817. 

Studies in Fractional Estimations of Stomach Contents. B. B. Crolin and J. Reiss, 
Amer. Jour. Med. Sci. 154 (1917), no. 6, pp. 857-873. 

Etiological Factors of Acne Vulgaris. Albert Stridder, Amer. Jour. Med. Sci., 154 (1917), 
no. 4, pp. 579-585. 

The Action of Opium and Some of its Alkaloids on the Digestion Tract. D. I. Macht, 
Amer. Jour. Med. Sci., 154 (1917), no. 6, pp. 874-883. 

The Nutritive Value of Margarines and Butter Substitutes with Reference to their Con- 
tent of the Fat-Soluble Accessor}^ Growth Substance. W. D. Halliburton and J. C. Dnmi- 
mond. Jour. Physiol., 51 (1917), nos. 4 and 5, pp. 235-251. 

Feeding experiments with rats which show "that the only butter substitutes (amongst 
those e.xamined) which can adequately replace butter are the margarines made of the so-called 
"oleo-oil" from beef-fat. Vegetable oil margarines and nut butters were the other fats 
used. "It would be truer economy even for the poor to purchase smaller quantities of 
oleo-oil margarine if they cannot afford the luxury of real butter." 

The Energy Value of the Ordinary Diet of a Sedentary Worker with and without Alcohol. 
.\. D. Waller, Jour. Physiol., 51 (1917), nos. 4 and 5. pp. xiii-jdv. 

Diet of Prisoners of War in Germany. .'Monzo Taylor, Jour. Amer. Med. Assn., 69 
(1917), no. 19, pp. 1575-1582. 

Botulism, the Danger of Poisoning from Vegetables Canned by the Cold Pack Method. 
Dickson, Jour. Amer. Med. Assn., 69 (1917), p. 966. 

MiSCELLANEOtrS 

Vocational Education in Indiana. W. F. Brook, Educ. Admin, and Supervision, Oct. 
1917. 

Practical Millinery. Madge Lamoreaux, Indus. Arts. Magazine, Oct. and Nov. 1917. 

The Efficiency Home. EsteUe P. Izor, Irulus. Arts. Magazine, Dec. 1917. 

.\ County Bureau of Information for Housewives. Katherine Glover, Survey, Oct. 20, 
1917. 

Social Welfare in Time of War and Disaster: a bibUography. Christine McBride and 
Susan Kingsbury, Survey, Oct. 27, and Dec. 8, 1917. 

Community Ser\'ice and Vocational Training. Parker B. Pratt, Man. Tr. Magazine, 
Nov. 1917. 

Community Health on a National Scale. Louis I. Dublin, Survey, Nov. 17, 1917. 

Correlation between Nursing and Social Work. Jessie L. Beard, Amer. Jour. Nursing, 
Oct. 1917. 

The Care of Children in the Home. Laura Cole, Amer. Jour. Nursing, Oct. 1917. 

Keeping Mothers and Babies Together. Elizabeth S. Walsh, Survey, Nov. 3, 1917. 

Modern Methods of Water Puri6cation. H. E. Barnard, Amer. Food Jour., Oct. 1917. 

The Effect of Atmospheric Conditions upon Fadgue and Efficiency. C.-E. A. Winslow, 
Amer. Jour. Pub. Health, 7 (1917) no. 10, pp. 827-834. 



NEWS FROM THE FIELD 



Annual Meeting, American Home Eco- 
nomics Association. — For several years the 
American Home Economics Association 
has held a meeting in connection with, the 
Division of Superintendence of the N. E. 
A. This year there will be a more extended 
session that will serve as the annual meet- 
ing of the Association, continuing through 
Friday morning and afternoon and Satur- 
day morning, March 1 and 2. There will 
be a meeting of the Council on Thursday 
evening. One general session of the De- 
partment of Superintendence is to be given 
to home economics, and Dean Arnold of 
Simmons College will make the address. 
It is hoped this will be on Thursday, Feb- 
ruary 28. 

A brief business meeting of the Associa- 
tion, with the report of the president and 
other officers will be held on Friday morn- 
ing, followed by a round table dis;ussion 
that will be continued in the afternoon. 

The Saturday morning meeting will be 
especially planned for the public school 
teacher, with the hope that there will be a 
large attendance from New York, New 
Jersey, and eastern Pennsylvania. 

The general topics for the round table 
discussion will be: 

I. What ought home economics teachers 
to teach the general public about food values 
and how shall we do it? 
^ni. How does the Smith-Hughes Bill 
modify the work now being conducted in 
home economics? What changes and addi- 
tions does it necessitate? 
(*.Miss Isabel Bevier is chairman of the 
program committee. 

The meetings will probably be held at the 
Hotel Traymore. 

The American Dietetic Association. 
The first national meeting of the American 
Dietetic Association was held at the Hollen- 
den Hotel in Cleveland, Ohio, October 18 



to 20. Representatives from twenty-one 
states and from Canada were present and 
not one moment during the entire meeting 
did interest lag. So many good papers were 
read and ably discussed that the attendance 
was more than one hundred people at each 
session — even the last one, a registration 
highly gratifying for the first attempt at 
organization. 

Major C. F. Hoover, Chief of the Medical 
StafI of the Lakeside Hospital of Cleveland, 
Ohio, who had recently returned from 
France, gave a very practical opening and 
welcoming address on Thursday afternoon, 
speaking of the need and aims of the dieti- 
tian, and of her future prospects, giving also 
facts concerning food conservation, and in 
regard to war conditions in France. 

Miss Lulu Graves, Dietitian of the Lake- 
side Hospital of Cleveland, as temporary 
chairman of the Conference, gave the 
reasons for assembling the dietitians and 
showed how by concerted action they may 
raise their standards and give their work a 
broader outlook. 

A Round Table on Food Conservation 
was conducted by Miss Lenna Cooper of 
Battle Creek, Michigan. Before the end 
of this session it was necessary to proNade 
larger quarters. In the evening Rev. 
CaroUne Bartlett Crane, chairman of th? 
Michigan Section of the Woman's Council 
of National Defense, told what the Woman's 
Council of National Defense is doing for this 
country and urged that all dietitians place 
their "e.iqDert knowledge and valuable 
experience" at the servdce of the woman's 
clubs, and all who need it; and also offer 
help to the training camps. 

Ad the business meeting that followed. 
Miss Lenna Cooper was chosen as President 
pro tem and Miss Maude A. Perry as tem- 
porary Secretar>', and a decision was made 
to form an organization to be known as 
The .American Dietetic Association. 
47 



48 



THE JOXJRNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS 



[January 



Friday moming, Dr. Ruth Wheeler of the 
University of Illinois, gave some results 
which she had obtained from experimenta- 
tion on both animals and people at the 
University. Miss Sawyer of the University 
of Iowa read an e.xceUent paper on acidosis, 
reporting obser\'ations taken on different 
children to show their susceptibihty to 
acidos's. She showed by charts and figures 
the effects of anestliesia and starvation 
upon some children who develop acidosis 
after operation, and an interesting disrus- 
sion on diabetic acidos's followed. 

In the afternoon Miss Violet Ryley, 
General Organizing Dietitian of the Mili- 
tary Hospitals of Canada told what they 
are doing in the recuperative hospitals, 
and emphasized the importance of the po- 
sition of the dietitian in these hospitals. 
A visit to the Cleveland City Hospital 
followed. 

On Friday evening, a paper by Mr. John 
Willy of the Hotel Monthly, upon Hotel 
Management was read by Miss Mary Jones 
of Battle Creek, Mich., and Mr. Stuart, the 
manager of the HoIIenden Hotel, opened the 
discussion and answered many questions on 
the subject. 

Miss Louise Pollock, Dietitian of the 
City Hospital, St. Louis, Missouri, read a 
paper on "The Dietitian and Her Equip- 



ment." The value of several important 
and useful labor savers was discussed. 

On Saturday morning. Dr. Lewis of the 
Battle Creek Sanitarium, gave a stere- 
opticon lecture in which he showed charts 
and e.xplained the value of laboratory 
reports to the dietitian. Scientific dietetics 
is an actuality and the practical physician 
of today realizes the need of the dietitian in 
the successful treatment of his patient 
after diagnosis has been made. 

Miss Elva .\. George, of the Red Cross 
Bureau of Instruction, Washington, D. C. 
read a paper telUng the different phases of 
work open to the Red Cross Dietitian and Miss 
Ryley of Canada gave more details about her 
work in connection with the wounded soldiers. 

In the afternoon, Miss Graves told of the 
work which is being done by "The Dietitian 
as the Doctor's Asssitant." This is a com- 
paratively new field but a field full of oppor- 
tunity for the person who is willing to do 
hard work and much of it. One who under- 
takes it has a bright future not only in 
hospital work but in field dietetics and as a 
consulting dietitian as well. 

Miss Rena Eckman sent her paper," The 
Standardization of Dietetics and the Train- 
ing of the Dietitian" and it was read by 
Miss Phyllis Dykeman of Grant Hospital, 
Columbus, Ohio. 



DOMESTIC SCIENCE ORGANIZER FOR NEW ZEALAND 

The services of a highly qualified woman to act as organizer of Domestic Science work in 
.Auckland, New Zealand, are required. 

The salar>- offered is £300 per annum. If the successful applicant comes from beyond 
New Zealand, saloon passage wiE be paid to Auckland. Actual transit expenses of the 
organizer will be paid while she is engaged in her duties. The sum of £50 a year will be 
paid towards board and lodging expenses. The engagement is to be for a term of three years. 

Applicants should have had considerable experience as teachers of Domestic Science, 
and have held positions requiring organization and the successful exercise of authorit)'. 

The duties of the organizer will be: (1) To take charge (under the Supen-isor Manual 
Training and Technical Education) of the teaching of Domestic Science subjects in the 
Primary, District High, and Technical Schools of the Board; (2) To organize course of in- 
struction in Domestic Science subjects; (3) To inspect and report upon all classes in Domes- 
tic Science subjects under the Board; (4) To assist in the training of Teachers of Domestic 
Science and to give model lessons for their benefit; (5) To hold special meetings for Mothers 
in the Country Districts for the object of obtaining their co-operation, so that the teaching 
of Domestic Science may be made as far-reaching as possible. 

Forms of application and further information may be procured from Miss Alice Raven- 
hill, Professor of Home Economics, Utah Agricultural College, Logan, Utah. Applica- 
tions must be returned in duplicate not later than January 31, 1918. 



Vol. X, No. 2 Febrc.^ry, 1918 

THE 

Journal of Home Economics 

For those interested in Homemaking;, Institution Management, 
and Educational Work in Home Economics 

Mrs. Alice P. Norton, Editor Kettrah E. Baxdwin, Afanaging Editor 

Editorial Board 
Mrs. M4RY H. Abel An-n'a Barrows C. F. L \>f :;worthy Isabel Ely Lord Katharine Blunt 

Ex-OJido Members — Catharine J. MacKay. President American Home Economics Association 
F.^fxt A H. GuNTHER, Chairman Institution Economics Section 
Ruth Wheeler, Chairman Science Section 
Neale S. Knowles. Chairman Extension Education Section 



Collaborators—The Officers, Members of the Coimcil, and Advisers 



CONTENTS 

Some Essentials to a Safe Diet E. V. McColliim 49 

Increase in Living Costs Helen Coombs and Eiizabeth L. Bishop 57 

A Cheap Homemade Soy Bean Meal for Diabetics . . Lydia J. Roberts and Elizabeth Miller 64 

A Food Conser\ation Drive in a High School Irma Gross 71 

For the Homemaker 

Housekeeping in War Time Mary Aldis 73 

NuTRiTiors Vegetable Soups Elisabeth Spragiie 80 

Editorial 85 

. Books a.\-d Literatl-re 87 

P.\MPHLETS ReCEI\'ED 88 

B1BL10GR.APHY of Home Econoxucs 89 

News prom the Field 91 



The Journal of Home Economics is published monthly by the American Home Economics Association. 
$2.00 A YEAR. FOREIGN $2.35. CANADIAN $2.20. SINGLE COPIES 25 CENTS 

HOW TO REMIT RemitUnces should be sent by Draft on New York, Eipress Order or Postal Money Order, pay- 
able to the American Home Economics Association. Currency, unless mailed in a registered letter, is at the sender's risk. 

CH.WGE I.V ADDRESS. Notice of change in address should be sent Two Weeks before the date of issue on which 
the change is to take effect. The subscriber's Old .Address should be clearly indicated in addition to the New Address. 

.\MERICAX HOME ECONOMICS ASSOCIATION 1211 Cathedr.^l St., Baltimore, Md. 

Entered as second class matter at the Baltimore Post Office 

The Jouhnal of Home Economics is on sale at John Wanamaker's. Philadelphia; The Old Corner Book Store, Boston; 

A. C. McClurg's, Chicago; Baltimore News Company. Baltimore; Woodward and Lothrop. Washington 



The American Home Economics Association 



Organized Dec. 31, 1908. Incorporated May 12, 1909. 

e Economics Association exists for the purpose of bringing together those interested i 
chool, the public institution, and the community. 



al Dues: Active $2.00; Associate $1.00. Only active 



nbers receive the quarterly bulletii 



MARION TALBOT, 

University of Chicago 



Secretary 
MRS. ALICE P. NORTON, 
1326 E. 58th St.. Chicago. III. 



CATHARINE J. MACKAY, 

Iowa State College, Ames, Iowa 

Vice-Presidents 



ABBY L. MARLATT, 
University of Wisconsin, Madis 



EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE 



FLORA ROSE, 
Cornell University. Ithaca, N. Y. 

Treasurer 

H. GALE TURPIN, 

Baltimore Trust Campany, Baltimore 



The Executive Committee is composed of the following 
urer, the retiring president, and five additional members of 
Isabel Bevier. Liila A. Harkins. Henry C. Sherman. Maiy E. 



obers: The president, three vice-presidents, secretary, treas- 
? Council chosen, by the Counril, viz: Mrs. Mary H. Abd, 
eeny. 

COUNCILORS AT LARGE 



TERMS EXPIRE 1917 
Isabel Bevier, A/C True. 

University of Illinois, U. S. Dept. of Agriculture, 

Urbana, III. Washington. D. C. 

LiLLA A. Harkins. Bertha Terrill, 

Montana State College, Bozeman. Mont. University of Vermont, Burlington. Vt 



Agnes Harris, 

Florida State College. 
Tallahassee. Fla. 



Mrs Mary H. Abel, 
Woodlawn, 

Baltimore Md.. 

Henry C. Sherman, 

Columbia University, 
New York. N. Y. 

Sarah Loihse Arnold, 
Simmons College. 
Boston. Mass. 

Isabel Ely LoEtD. 
Pratt Institute. 

Brooklyn. N.5Y, 

Mrs. Henrietta Calvin, 

U. S. Bureau of Education. 
Washington. D. C. 
Fannie Twiss, 

Normal School, Rcgina, 
Saskatchewan, Canada. 



TERMS EXPIRE 1918 
Anna Barrows, 

Teachers College, 
New York City. 

C. F. Langvvorthv, 

U. S. Dept. of Agricultui 
Washington, D. C. 

TERMS EXPIRE 1919 
Josephine T. Berry, 
University Farm, 
St. Paul. Minn. 

Catherine A. Mulligan, 
Converse College, 

Spartanburg, S. C. 

TERMS EXPIRE 1920 
AucE Looms, 

University of Nebraska, 
Lincoln. Neb. 

Edna N- White, 

University of Ohio, 
Columbus. Ohio. 



Benjamin R. Andrews. 
Teachers College, 
New York City 



Helen Louise Johnson, 
415 Maryland Bldg., 
Washington, D.C 



Mary E. Sweeney, 

University of Kentucky, 
Lexington, Ky. 



Efpie Rattt, 

University of Washington, 
Seattle, Wash. 

EUEUNE WhITCOMB. 

University of Wyoming, 
Laramie, Wyo- 



Mrs' Charles W. Greene, 
814 Columbia Ave., 

Columbia, Mo 



TERMS EXPIRE 1921 
Ruth Wardall, 

Univereity of Iowa, 
Iowa City, Iowa 

Mary E. Matthews. 
Purdue University. 
LaFayette, Ind. 
SECTIONAL COUNCILORS 
Institution Economics Section: Mrs. Melvil Dewey. Lake Placid Club. N. Y.; Emma H. Gunther. Teachei 
Science Section: Ruth Wheeler, University of Illinois, Urbana, III. 

Extension Section: Neale S. Knowles, Iowa State College. Ames. low* 
REPRESENTATIVE COUNCILORS 
One representative councilor may be chosen by each affiliated society, provided the councilor is a member of the Americas 
Home Economics Association. The^names of those appointed are printed with the officers of the Affiliated Association. 
TRUSTEES OF THE ELLEN H. RICHARDS MEMORIAL FUND 
board of investment of permanent funds of association 
TERMS EXPIRE JANUARY 1, 1918 
Frederick B. Pratt, 
Pratt Institute. 

Brooklyn N. Y. (Chairman). 
Marion Talbot. 

University of Chicago, 

Chicago, III. 

TERMS EXPIRE JANUARY 1, 1919 

AVA B. MlLAU. 

Corvallis, Ore. 
Mrs. John Widtsoe, 
nd Treasurer.) Salt Lake City, Utah 

TERMS EXPIRE JANUARY 1, 1920 
Martha Van Rensselaer, Mrs. Annie Dewey. 

Cornell University, Lake Placid Club, 

Ithaca, N. Y. Lake Placid, N. Y. 

Caroline Hunt. 

U. S, Dept. of Agriculture. 
Washington. D. C. 



Beniauin R Andrews, 
Teachers College. 
New York. 

(Secretary j 



; College. 



Robert H. Richards, 

Mass. Inst- of TechnoIog>', 
Boston. Mass. 



Harriet A. Boyer. 

H. Sophia Newcomb College, 
New Orleans, La. 



Anna Barrows, 

Teachers College, 
New York City. 



THE 

Journal of Home Economics 

Vol. X FEBRUARY, 1918 No. 2 

SOME ESSEJJTIALS TO A SAFE DIETi 

E. V. McCOLLUM 
School of Hygiene and Public Health, Johns Hopkins University 

In my association during the summer in Washington with the various 
women in the field of home economics who were working in association 
with the Food Administration, I saw a great many charts and illustrations 
regarding comparative food values, and I was struck particularly with 
one tjpe of product which came from various sources. I refer to such 
charts as illustrate the cost of a hundred calories of energy or the cost 
of a pound of digestible protein. In such charts we find invariably that 
for a dollar one can purchase the greatest amount of energy in the form 
of one of the cereal grains or their milled products, depending upon the 
market price at the particular time. The cheapest energy foods are 
those that are derived from the cereal grains. 

Now what effect will the distribution of such illustrative matter broad- 
cast over the land have upon the dietary habits of the people of the 
United States at the present time? I think the answer is clear. Never 
before has the cost of foodstuffs risen to the present point. It is taxing 
very seriously the budget of numerous households to meet the food re- 
quirements of the family. I feel that there is an element of danger in 
giving the housewife this information without supplementing it with 
further advice to enable her to make a wise selection of food so that her 
list of purchases will provide a safe diet. 

I am told that the recent rise in the price of milk in some of the large 
cities has aheady reduced the consumption of milk by the people. Un- 

1 Reprinted from The Annals of the American Academy of Political and Social Science, 
vol. 74, Nov. 1917, The World's Food. 

49 



50 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [February 

der the stress of poverty the list of foods purchased becomes restricted 
and more and more the tendency is to use principally wheat bread, corn 
bread, oatmeal, rice, peas, and beans, or dishes prepared from these, so 
that the diet becomes derived almost wholly from the seeds of plants. 
The charts of food values to which I have referred encourage women who 
are alert and anxious to study the food problems, to buy just such a Hst 
of foods as that enumerated. Milk and green vegetables do not 
appear to the average housewife to be economical purchases because 
they contain much water and do not compare favorably, pound for 
pound, with the dry cereal grains. 

MILK AND GREEN VEGETABLES IMPERATIVE 

It is SO important that the diet should contain a certain amount of 
milk and green vegetables because of the special values which these pos- 
sess from the dietary standpoint, that I want to place special emphasis 
upon this point and, furthermore, I want to show you why a diet con- 
sisting too largely of cereal grains will not induce optimum nutrition. 

There has long prevailed, in the discussions of matters relating to nu- 
trition, the idea that the essential constituents of the normal diet are 
protein, carbohydrates, and fats, and certain inorganic salts. Since the 
organic constituents named all furnish energy when they are oxidized, 
the idea has prevailed that the proportions between the carbohydrates 
and fats in the food is a matter of little importance. This idea is cor- 
rect. The Eskimo eats Kttle carbohydrate and much fat, while people 
in the temperate regions eat relatively ver}' much less fat. It is a com- 
mon misconception, however, that the people in the warmer regions of 
the world do not eat hberally of fats. They consume much more fats 
than do the peoples living in the temperate regions. This is purely a 
matter of convenience and came about through the relative abundance 
in the tropics of oil-rich fruits and nuts. The temperate regions pro- 
duce the cereals and other crops which are with few exceptions rich in 
carbohydrates and poor in fats. Man has adapted himself to the char- 
acter of the foods which he has found available, and through long usage 
certain dietary habits have become fixed. 

There has been much importance attached to the protem content of 
the diet, and justly so. I shall not attempt to discuss the merits of the 
high or low protein diet. Practically all students of nutrition are now 
agreed that a fairly liberal supply of protein in the diet tends to promote 



1918] SOME ESSENTIALS TO A SAFE DIET 51 

good nutrition better than an amount which closely approximates the 
physiological minimmn. Furthermore, this aspect of nutrition is so 
well appreciated that it receives the attention of all who concern them- 
selves with the planning of rations. 

One of the dietary factors which should be given attention is the inor- 
ganic or mineral content. Tihe research of the last few years has brought 
to light an importance of this part of the food which was not hitherto 
suspected. 

Another fact of the greatest importance in enabling us to plan ade- 
quate dietaries is the knowledge that there exists two substances the 
natures of which are still unknown which must be present in the diet if 
an animal is to grow or long maintain a state of health. The existence 
of one of these has been appreciated only about four years and the other 
but two. Although we do not know much about the natures of either 
of these substances we have definite and fairly adequate knowledge re- 
garding where they can be found. 

One of those substances is especially abundant in milk and it is fairly 
abundant in the leaves of plants, but almost without exception is de- 
ficient in the seeds of plants. Butter fat is one of the best sources of it. 
Egg fat is also an excellent source of it. This substance is in these 
particular kinds of fats and in the leaves of plants, but not in the seeds 
in adequate amounts. 

The second unknown is ever^-where abundant except in the following 
list of foods: pohshed rice, fats from either animal or vegetable sources, 
sugars, and starches. None of these contain this second food element. 

Under ordinary conditions when we take a diet of seeds, or seeds and 
vegetables, or seeds and milk, or seeds and meat, we get an abundance 
of the second substance, but we are in more or less serious danger of run- 
ning a little short of the dietary essential which is not abundant in the 
seeds but is associated with the leaves and is present in large amount in 
milk. 

There are several cases in the literature of medicine which indicate 
that serious consequences have actually arisen in Japan and Dermiark, 
due to a specific shortage of that particular unknown thing which is so 
abundant in butter fats and in milk and in egg fat and in the leaves of 
plants, but not in the seeds. Up to recent times the practice in Denmark 
was to feed children on milk containing a moderate amount of fat, but 
since the introduction of the milk separator, which is very efficient in 



52 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [February 

taking out practically all the fat of milk, a physician named Bloch at 
Copenhagen has observed about forty-five cases, in the last five years, of 
children in the country who were fed on separator milk and vegetable 
food, who suffered from eye troubles. The eyes become swollen, in- 
flamed and infected, and blindness results unless something is done to 
correct the faulty diet. The introduction of whole milk causes an im- 
mediate response and recovery, providing the eyes are not too badly 
injured. 

During times of famine among the vegetarian people of Japan, hun- 
dreds of cases have been recorded of this pathological condition of the 
eyes in young children; and curiously enough, a certain Japanese phy- 
sician named Mori has pointed out that the eye trouble in these vege- 
tarian children is cured by giving them chicken livers. As a matter of 
fact, other Hvers would cure them just as well. They could be cured just 
as well with butter fat or eggs. 

Another type of malnutrition due to a lack of an unappreciated, un- 
identified dietary factor is a disease, found in the Orient, that is due to a 
lack of the second unknown to which I have referred. This is widely 
distributed in many kinds of food but is nearly absent from polished rice, 
and tliis disease which is called beri-beri occurs among those people who 
eat polished rice as the principal article of diet. The principal feature 
of this deficiency disease is general paralysis. 

One of the most important things to reahze is that the chemical analy- 
sis of foodstuffs, no matter how complete or by whom made, cannot 
give the slightest e\adence as to the biological values of the foods. Such 
knowledge can be gained only by properly conducted feeding tests. I 
have during the last five years perfected a systematic procedure which 
involves a series of feeding experiments, and which yields results which 
constitute a biological analysis of food stuffs. Briefly, the principle is as 
follows: a single natural food in a wholesome condition is fed as the sole 
source of nutriment and then with single or multiple additions of iso- 
lated food factors. This will be clear from a simple illustration. If we 
represent protein by P, inorganic salts by S, the unknown dietary sub- 
stance associated with certain fats and with the leaves of plants by A, 
and the remaining unidentified dietary factor by B, the dietary properties 
of a foodstufl", as the maize kernel, are determined by feeding maize in 
the following ways: 



1918] SOME ESSENTI.4LS TO A SAFE DIET 53 

1. JIaize alone 8. llaize + P + B 

2. Maize + P 9. Jlaize + S + A 

3. Maize + S 10. Maize + S + B 

4. Maize + A 11. Maize + A + B 

5. Maize + B 12. Maize + P + S + A 

6. Maize + P + S 13. Maize -|- P + S + B 

7. :Mai2e + P + A 14. Maize + P-i-S + A + B 

Only rations 12 and 14 in this series will adequately nourish an animal 
during growth. This shows that there are three ways in which the maize 
kernel is deficient, viz., its proteins are not of very satisfactory character; 
it lacks a sufficient amount of the unknown factor A, and it is too poor 
in certain inorganic salts to support physiological well-being in a growing 
animal. What I have said about the maize kernel can be said almost 
without qualification for the other most important cereal grains — -wheat 
and oats, and other common seeds. Since the dietary properties of various 
seeds are about alike their mixtures are but little better than the single 
seeds fed as the sole source of nutriment. The seeds are perfectly good 
foodstuffs so far as they go but we should recognize their deficiencies and 
see to it that they are combined with such other foods as will make good 
their shortcomings. Chief among the foods which correct the deficien- 
cies of the seeds are milk, and the leaves of plants such as cabbage, 
lettuce, spinach, cauliflower and such other leaves as are appetizing as 
greens. The tubers such as the potato and sweet potato possess a cer- 
tain amount of corrective character, but are distinctly poorer than the 
leaf of the plant. 

Why do milk and leaf- vegetables make good the dietary deficiencies of 
the seeds? It is because they are especially rich in those mineral ele- 
ments, such as calcium, sodium and chlorine, in which the seeds are de- 
ficient. They are rich in the unidentified factor A which is abundant in 
certain fats and in leaves but, with few exceptions, not in seeds, and their 
proteins supplement those of the seeds so as to enhance their value. 

WTiereas an animal can live but a short time when fed oats alone, a 
mixture of roUed oats, 60 per cent, and a flour made from immature al- 
falfa leaves, 40 per cent, constitutes a' fairly satisfactory monotonous 
diet from infancy to adult life. Normal development cannot be secured 
on any mixture of seeds as a restricted diet, but combinations of leaf 
with seed are in many cases fairly satisfactory. 

There are at the present time thousands of people of the working 
classes in the south who are suffering from a disease known as pellagra. 



54 TKE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [February 

Dr. Goldberger of the Bureau of Public Health in Washington has dem- 
onstrated that the disease is the result of a faulty diet. 

A year ago, owong to the high cost of foodstuffs, there were several 
people especially interested in home economics who made inquiry into 
the question as to what was the least expenditure of money on which a 
self-respecting himian being might expect to be well nourished. There 
was such a group of investigators in Chicago, and after careful inquiry 
they decided that in Chicago about forty cents a day was the lowest 
expenditure on which an adult could be reasonably weU nourished. 

While that investigation was going on, Mrs. Dewey made an investi- 
gation of the insane hospitals and state prisons of New York, and found 
that they were feeding the prisoners and insane patients in that state on 
about eleven and six-tenths cents a day. 

Dr. Goldberger has produced experimental pellagra m hum.an beings 
on a diet supplying an abundance of energy and affording considerable 
variety, but derived too largely from seeds. The governor of one of the 
southern states agreed to pardon any con\dct in the state penitentiarj' 
who would volunteer to eat such a diet as Dr. Goldberger might pre- 
scribe until he chose to discontinue the experiment. There were eleven 
of them who took the chance. 

He kept these men in the country on a sunny slope under ideal hy- 
gienic conditions. They were given dishes prepared from the following 
list of foodstuffs: bolted wheat flour, corn meal, oatmeal, corn starch, 
sugar, syrup, bacon fat, cabbage, collards, turnip greens, and sweet 
potatoes. 

After five and a half months five of the eleven men in this experi- 
mental group showed distinct signs of pellagra. In some of the insane 
hospitals and orphanages of the south where formerly there was a high 
incidence of pellagra. Dr. Goldberger found the disease to disappear 
when an adequate diet was supplied. I venture to say that the trouble 
with the diets of the people in these regions is the very high percentage 
derived from the seeds of plants or products made by milling or pohsh- 
ing the seeds. There is an element of danger in restricting the diet of 
either man or animal too largely to products of this class. 

Dr. Goldberger has pointed out that the diet of many of the poor 
people of the south consists in mnter of corn bread, salt pork, and mo- 
lasses. This they eat with httle variety in the way of other additions, 
and by the end of winter come down with the disease. From what I 



1918] SOJJE ESSENTIALS TO A SAFE DIET 55 

have said of the nature of the dietary deficiencies of the seeds the nature 
of the deficiencies of the pellagra-producing diets is fairly clear. The 
fault does not lie in any one dietary deficiency but in poor quality with 
respect to several factors. 

The greatest nutritional problems before us now are two in number. 
First we must find a way to provide the leafy vegetables at moderate 
prices to the people of our cities. These foods should be the least expen- 
sive of all. They are great producers and are easily handled, but be- 
cause of their tendency to spoilage the present system of marketing 
renders them, a hazardous class of foods for the retail dealer to handle 
and the prices are accordingly exorbitant. One of the greatest boons 
which could possibly come to the poor people throughout the world 
would be the discovery of a plant which is a good agricultural crop, whose 
leaves are not fleshy, but of a character which permits their being promptly 
dried in the sun as are our hay crops, and the immature leaves of which 
could be converted into a flour with good keeping quahties. Such a leaf 
must be free from tannins and other bitter principles and so nearly taste- 
less that it could be incorporated with wheat flour to the extent of 20-25 
per cent without destroying the pleasant favor of the wheat loaf. Such 
a bread would have dietary properties vastly superior to any variety of 
dishes derived from wheat, corn, oats, and rice when prepared without 
the use of rrulk and taken without sufficient vegetables to correct their 
deficiencies. 

If such a plant can be found and the public educated to the regular 
use of such a mixed flour the health of all peoples who live on a restricted 
diet would be greatly improved. Since high ideals, ambition, and ag- 
gressiveness are promoted by physiological well being, the gain to society 
would be verj' great indeed. I have the hearty cooperation of Mr. Fair- 
child of the Bureau of Plant Industry in securing plants which may meet 
these requirements. 

The second fundamentally important dietary- problem with which we 
have to deal is the preservation of the dairy industry. The prices of 
feeding stuffs have gone up 100 to 200 per cent while the price of 
milk has advanced only about 20 per cent. Such a condition makes 
milk production unprofitable and will lead, if not remedied, to an aban- 
donment of the dairy industry. Such an event would be a misfortune of 
the gravest consequences to the pubhc health. We have long been ac- 
customed to the use, in cookery, of milk in liberal amounts and of cream, 



56 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [February 

butter, and cheese. It is not generally appreciated that these articles 
have a dietary value far greater than can be expressed by their protein 
and energy content. They act as correctives for the deficiencies of the 
cereal grains, and without them the nutrition of our people will suffer 
serious impairment. 

The nation-wide cry against further advance on the cost of milk is 
unjust and dangerous. The cost of mUk must go up and up so far as is 
necessary to insure that the dairy industry shall remain a pa5ang one. 

The only alternative in dietary practice which can maintain the health 
and efficiency of our population is the adoption of a new type of diet 
derived in suitable amount from leaf flour. This, however, involves 
still unsolved problems and cannot at once be put into effect. The only 
product which can in some measure meet the requirements is the flour 
prepared from the alfalfa leaf. It is not entirely satisfactory as a human 
food but baking tests made in the departments of home economics at 
several universities have shown that 10-12 per cent of alfalfa leaf flour 
can be used with wheat flour without affecting perceptibly the physical 
properties of the wheat loaf. Bread prepared from mLxed flour of this 
character is slightly green but does not differ greatly from whole wheat 
bread in taste. More than 12-14 per cent of the leaf produces a slightly 
astringent taste which renders the product less acceptable to the human 
palate. A better leaf flour should be found for this purpose and I be- 
lieve this will be accomplished before long. Such a leaf would not, how- 
ever, do away with the need of milk and its products. The appetizing 
nature of these and their capacity in cuHnary practices of conferring 
palatability upon other foods make them foods for which there can be 
found no substitutes. 

The mixed seed and leaf flour which I have described will serve only 
as a cheap and safe food for those whose earnings do not pennit the 
use of foods other than the cheapest, viz., the seed products, molasses, 
etc. For these, meats do not form efficient dietary supplements and 
their purchase is not logical. We could entirely dispense with meats 
without suffering any iU effects whatever, but if we permit the use of 
milk, even in the diet of adults, to fall much below the present con- 
sumption, its eft'ects will soon become apparent in our national efficiency. 



1918] 



INCREASE IN LIVING COSTS 



57 



INCREASE IN LIVING COSTS 

HELEN COOMBS 
Head of the Household Arts Department 

AXD 

ELIZABETH L. BISHOP 

Instructor of Foods and Household Chemistry, State Normal School, Buffalo, New York 

The following interesting data on the cost of living in Buffalo, and 
its increase from September, 1912, to September, 1917, compiled by 
the Department of Household Arts of the State Normal School of 
Buffalo, New York, may be of value as a basis of comparison for other 
communities as weU. 

Comparison of cost of foods 



n.u 


SOURCE 


PRICE SEPTEMBER 
1912 


PRICE SEPTEMBER 
1917 


raCREASE 


Mill Products 
Flour 
White 


Washburn Crosby 
Co. 

J. N. Adam & Co. 


$7.50 bbl. 
.04 lb. 
.041b. 
.041b. 
.025 lb. 


$14.75 

.10 
.10 
.10 
.07 


96.66 




150 


\ATiole WTieat 

Rye 


150.0 
150 




ISO 








145 3d, 






Sugar 
White 


Plimpton Cowan 
Co. 


$.05 lb. 
.05 lb. 
.0475 lb. 


$0.0925 
.09 
.095 


85 




80 




100 








88 ii 






Bread 
White 


Collins Bakery 


$0.02 oz. 
.05 lb. 


$0.03 

.0775 


50 




56 5 








5i 25 






Fats 

Butter 


C. M. Lorish 


$0.30 lb. 
.13 1b. 
.25 can 
.22 1b. 

.75 qt. 
.25 can 


$0.52 
.28 
.40 
.35 
1.00 
.40 


73 Zi 


Lard 


115 3i 




60 




59 




33 3i 




60 






Average 


66.82 



Comparison of cost of foods — Continued 



„...: 


SOURCE 


PRICE SEPTEUBER 
1912 


PRICE SEPTEUBER 
1917 


INCREASE 
PEHCENI 


Milk and cream 

Milk 


Queen City Dairy 
Co. 


$0.07 qt. 
.08 i pt. 


$0.11 
.13 


57.14 




62.5 








59.82 






Fish 

Halibut 


Buflfalo Oyster Co. 


$0.25 lb. 
.181b. 
.20 lb. 
.12 1b. 
.35 qt. 


$0.28 
.22 
.25 
.22 
.50 


12.0 




22.22 


White 


25.0 


Perch 


83.33 




42.85 








37.08 






Meat 
Veal 

Cutlet 


J. Bidell 


$0.20 lb. 

.141b. 


$0 40 

.34 


100.0 




142.85 








121.425 






Beef 


J. Bidell 


$0.16 lb. 
.22 lb. 
.141b. 


$0.28 
.32 
.23 


75.00 




45.0 




64.20 














61.4 






Mutton 


J. Bidell 
Kamman Co. 


$0.19 lb. 
.151b. 


$0.28 
.23-. 28 


47.3 


Leg 


86.66 














66.98 






Pork 


Kamman Co. 


$0.22 lb. 
.25 1b. 
.201b. 
.141b. 


$0.42 
.40 
.39 
.36 


90.9 




60.0 




95.0 


Salt Pork 


157.1 














100.75 






Poultry 

Chicken 

Fowl 

Turkey (cold storage)... . 


Menges Market 


$0 201b. 
.161b. 

.281b. 

1 


$0.31 
.31 

.35 


55.0 

93.75 

25.0 










57.916 






Average increase for mea 








81.69 











1918] 



INCREASE IX LIVING COSTS 



59 



Comparison of cost of foods — Concluded 



rrEM 


SOURCE 


PRICE SEI*rEMBER 
1912 


PRICE SEPTEMBER 
1917 


INCREASE 
PER CENT 


Vegetables 

Canned, 1 lb. 8 oz. 
cans 


Trost Grocery 


$0.15 per can 
. 12 per can 
.12 per can 

. 12 per can 
. 12 per can 
.12 per can 
. 10 per can 


$0.20 

.18 
.18 

.18 
.18 
.20 
.18 


33.33 


Peas 


50.0 


Com 


50.0 


Beans 


50.0 




50.0 




66.66 


Baked 


80.0 








54.28 






Tea 

Standard Grades 


Grand Union Tea 
Co. 


$0.40 lb. 
.401b. 


$0.50 
.60 


25.0 
50.0 






Eggs 
Western 


Trost Grocerj- 


$0.18 doz. 
.20 doz. 
.28 doz. 


$0.45 
.60 
.65 


150.0 


State 


200.0 




132 . 14 










160.71 







Comparison of cost of clothing 



TTEM 


soxmcE 


PRICE SEPTEMBER 

1912 


PRICE SEPTEMBF-a 
1917 


INCREASE 


Goods by the yard 
Cotton 

Berkley cambric 

Sheeting 2j yards 


Flint & Kent 


$0.25 yard 


$0.45 

.70 


80.0 
100.0 


Pillow case 45 inch — 
Fruit of the loom 


.20 yard .3i 
.11 yard .22 


75.0 
100.0 
100.0 




.25 yard 
.12 yard 
.20 yard 


.50 
.24 
.30 


100.0 




100.0 




50.0 








88.1 







60 



TKE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS 



[February 



Comparison of cost of clolhing — Continued 



Linen 

Table cloth 

Napkins per doz 

Butcher's linen 

Linen IJ yards wide.. 
Handkerchief linen. . 

Glass toweling 

Huck toweling 



Flint & Kent 



SI. 00 yard 

2.00 
.40 yard 

1.00 yard 
. 50 yard 
.18 yard 
.50 yard 



$1.50 

3.00 

.60 

2.00 

1.00 

.25 

.75 



Average 



Worsteds and woolens 

Broadcloth 

Serge 

Woolens 

Woolens 



Adam Meldrum & 
Anderson Co. 



S2 . 00 yard 
1 .25 yard 
1.00 yard 
1.25 yard 




Average 



Velvets 

Chiffon (silk) 42 inches 

Plush (silk) 32 inches — 
Velvet (cotton back) 18 

inches 

Velvet (linen back) 20 

inches 



Adam Meldrum & 
Anderson Co. 



$3.50 yard 
5.00 yard 

1 . 50 yard 

2 . 50 yard 




Average , 



Findings 
Thread, cotton. 



Thread, silk, true. 
Needles 



Pins. 



Seam binding. 
Buttons 

Pearl 

Bone 



S. O. Barnum & 
Son 



>0.50 doz. (200 
yds. each) 
. 10 (spool 100 
yds.) 
1.33 for 40 
packages 
.40 doz. pkg. 
(300 pins) 
1 . 20 doz. 

. 40 gross 
. 33 gross 



$0.50 (150 yds.) 

.12 (100 yds.) 

1.60 

.43 doz. pkg. 
(160 pins) 
1.55 

.55 
.60 



Average . 



1918] 



INCREASE IN LIVING COSTS 



61 



Comparison of cost of clothing — Concluded. 



ITEM 


sotmcE 


PRICE SEPTEMBER 
1912 


PRICE SEPTEMBER 

1917 


INCREASE 
PERCENT 


Women's 


Flint & Kent 
Hengerer Co. 

Flint & Kent 

A. Ale-xander, N. Y. 
Desbecker Bros. 


$5.50 

2.00 
.50 

.75 

7.00 

. 15 each 

0.25 
(for 2) 
1.00 

2.50 

13.50 doz. 

.50 each 

1.00 each 

1.125 

1.40 

1.325 


$8.00 

3.00 

.75 

.75 

(poorer) 

12.00 
.20 

.35 

(for 2) 

1.25 

3.50 
24.00 

.75 
1.25 

1.675 

2.00 
1.90 


45.45 




50.0 




50.0 






Men's 


71.4 


Collars 


ii.5 


Shirts 


40.0 
25.0 


Underwear 
Lisle. 


40.0 


Wool 


77.7 




50.0 


Cotton . . 


25.0 


Cloth for suits* 
Serge No. 3192 


48.8 


Standard Clay 16 oz. 
No. 200 


42.8 


Washington SergeNo. 814 


43.39 




45.92 







* On account of the wide variations in quality, and in the styles from year to year, it 
was impossible to gather rehable data concerning "ready to wear" clothing for either men 
or women. All dealers report considerable increase in the price of ready made clothing, 
with steady depreciation in quaUty and workmanship. No all wool suits wUl be sold next 
spring. 

Comparison of cost of shelter and operation 



FTEU 


SOCRCE 


PRICE, 1912 


PRICE, 19:7 


INCREASE 
PERCENT 


Rent — House or apart- 


0. L. Pease 


$40.00 


$45.00 


12.5 




J. M. Keeler 
M. Zirmnerman 


30.00 
35.00 


35.00 
40.00 


16.6 




14.28 




M. Bull 


50.00 


65.00 


30.0 




R. Schley 


60.00 


70.00 


16.6 




H. Holbrook 


20.00 


25.00 


25.0 




19.16 






Board and room, noonday 


Student Commit- 


$4.00 


$5.00 


25.0 


lunches no longer in- 


tee on board for 


5.00 


6.00 


20.0 




B. N. S. 


6.00 


8.00 


33.3 








26.1 






Table Board 


Miss Murphy 


$4.00 


$5.00 


25.0 







62 



THE JOURNAL OF HOiCE ECONOMICS 



[February 



Comparison of cost of shelter and operation — Concluded 



HEM 


SO..C. 


PEICE 1912 


PSICE, 1917 


DJCSEASE 
PEKCEWr 


Domestic help 

Cook 


Cafeteria (B. N. S.) 
E. L. Bishop 


$9.00 
5.00 
4.00 


$13.00 
7.00 
6.00 


44.4 




40.0 


General housework 


50.0 




44.81 






Coal 


D. J. Stickney 
Coal Co. 


S6.80 
6.80 


$8.40 
8.15 


23.5 


Egg 


19.9 








21.7 






Taxes* 


City Treasurer: 
Tax bills for 109 
Norwood Ave. 
Locality settled 








Assessed valuation 


for many years. 
Comparatively 
stable conditions. 


$5685.00 
22.48 
127.85 


$6730.00 
21.678 
147.36 


18.40 


Ta-x 


15.2 







'Variations in the tax rate from year to year change this item to a marked degree. Rate 
in 1916 was $29.44 per thousand, and valuation $5900, making the increase over 1912 of 
37.8 per cent. Assessed valuation has steadily increased. 

Comparison of wages, non professional 



OCCPAXIOS- 


SOURCE 


WAGES SEPTEMBER 
1912 


WAGES SEPTEMBER 
1917 


INCREASE 
PEECE.'fl 


Metal Workers 


Holly Manufac- 
turing Co. 

Builders E.xchange 


S0.375hr. 
3 40 day 


$0.75 
5 00 


100.0 




47 




3.60day 4.75 31.9 
.35hr. .475 35.7 






4.50 day 5.50 

30-50 per cent 


22.22 




40.00 








46.13 






Other workers 

Carpenters 


E. C. Leeder 
Farmers near Ham- 
burg, N. y. 
Employers Bureau 

Bishop 


$ 0.45 hr. 

30.00 and 

house 

.60hr. 

.20hr. 

3.50 day 


$0,625 hr. 

50.00 and 

house 

.7Shr. 

.40hr. 

4.50 day 


38.88 




66.66 




25.0 




100.0 




28.5 






Average 


51.80 



Summary 

Food Increase per cent 

Mill products 145.33 

Sugar 88 . 33 

Bread 53 .25 

Fats 66.82 

Milk 59.82 

Fish 37 . 08 

Meat and poultry 81 .69 

Tea 25.00 

Spices 50.00 

Eggs 160.71 

Canned vegetables 54.28 

Fresh vegetables* 131 .7 

Fruits* 71 .33 

Total average 78 . 87 

Clothing and cloth 

Cottons 88. 10 

Linen 62 .68 

Wools , 55.00 

Velvets rO.OO 

Findings 44.82 

Average materials 60. 12 

.\verage men's and women's "ready to wear'' 45.92 

Total average, a'! items cloth and clothing S3 .02 

Shelter and operation 

Rent 19. 16 

Board and room 26. 10 

Table board 25.00 

Domestic help 44. 81 

Coal 21 .675 

Taxes IS. 2 

Total average 25 . 32 

Building materials* 

Lumber 44.44 

Plumbing S5 . 55 

Brick 25.00 

Iron and steel ; . . . 69.00 

Glass 200.00 

Total average 78 . 79 

Miscellaneous* 

Drugs 123.28 

Soaps 51 . 66 

Paper 100.00 

Ga.soline 43 . 70 

Average, incidentals 79 . 66 

Average increase in cost of living, 1912-1917, Buffalo, N. Y 63. 13 

Average increase in wages, not including professional salaries, 1912-1917 48.96 

' rhe tables for fresh fruits and vegetables, building materials, and miscellaneous have 
been omitted but will be included in the reprints of this article. 

63 



64 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [February 

A CHEAP HOMEMADE SOY-BEAN MEAL FOR DIABETICS' 

LYDIA J. ROBERTS 

University of Chicago and Central Free Dispensary 

ELIZABETH W. MILLER 

University of Chicago 

In attempting to plan diabetic diets that could be prepared at home 
by dispensary patients, one of the first problems that confronted us was 
to find a substitute for bread, which would be cheap and palatable and 
yet low in available carbohydrate. There is no food which diabetics 
find it so difficult to do without as bread. For this reason it seems worth 
while to offer the results of our experiments in the preparation of a 
product which would meet this need. 

A number of possibihties suggested themselves, and various ones were 
tried. Gluten flour has been widely advertised for use in the making 
of diabetic breads ; but though it was found possible to make an acceptable 
gluten loaf fairly low in carbohydrate these flours were finally abandoned 
as imwise to use: first, because of the excessive prices of the commercial 
brands; second, because of their variable composition and unreliabiHty;' 
and third, because of the products yielded by gluten in digestion. Dr. 
Jaimey's investigations' show that gluten gives rise to a high per cent 
of glucose when fed to phlorizinized dogs, and hence may be little, if 
any, better for diabetics than ordinary white flour. In view of these 
facts it was necessary to look to other sources than gluten for our flour. 

Almond meal is another product used in many hospitals for making 
diabetic muffins; but here again the meals on the market are high in 
price and variable in composition;- and with almonds selling at a doUar 
a pound, homemade almond meal was also out of the question. 

Soy-bean meal presented another possibility. Various assimilable 
diabetes recommend its use because of the low per cent of writers on 
carbohydrate which the beans contain; Joslin* advises Hepco Flour,* a 
soy-bean product, in his diets. We procured some of this flour, as well 

' This work was done at The University of Chicago as a problem in experimental cooking . 

2 Reports of Conn. Agr. Exp. Sta., New Haven, Conn. Food Products and Drugs. 1913, 
Sec. 1, Diabetic Foods. 

' Glucose Formation from Protein in Diabetes. N. W. Janney, Trans. Col. Phys., Phil., 
1916, [3] 38, 168 Arch, of Intern. Med., 1916, 18, 584. 

* Treatment of Diabetes Mellitus. Joslin, Lea, and Febiger. Philadelphia, 1917, p. 53L 

' Manufactured by Waukesha Health Products Company, Waukesha, Wis. 



1918] 



CHEAP HOMEMADE SOY-BEAN MEAL 



65 



as several other commercial soy-bean flours,^ and found that they made 
satisfactory muffins which our patients would gladly eat. Once more, 
however, the price was prohibitive, for these flours cost from 50 to 75 
cents per pound. The manufacturers kindly offered us better prices for 
dispensary distribution, but even a liberal discount did not make them 
cheap enough to meet our need. 

We decided, therefore, to make our own flour. We purchased a vari- 
ety of yellow soy-beans from a local grocer at 3 pounds for 25 cents, and 
ground them through an ordinary hand coffee mill. The product was a 
fine meal closely resembling some of the conmiercml samples of soy- 
bean flour. It had, however, a raw "beany" taste which it retained 
after being made into muffins. This was easily removed, by a preliminary 
cooking that mi.^ht be done in any one of several ways. The beans could 
be partially cooked in water, dried in a moderate oven, and then ground 
into meal; or they could be soaked in water over night, dried and parched 
to a light brown in the oven, and then ground. A third method, finally 
settled on as the simplest, was to grind the raw beans, spread the result- 
ing meal thinly and evenly in pans, and brown it lightly in a moderate 
oven, stirring often to prevent scorching. This meal made muffins pleas- 
ing in appearance and flavor, almost — if not quite — equal to the ones 
made from the expensive meals; and it cost but 8-3- cents per pound, not 
counting labor and fuel. 

It is important to know at least approxiniately the composition of all 
foods included in a diabetic diet. Since we did not have the exact analy- 
sis of the beans used, we took the average composition of many varieties 
as given by Street and BaHey:' 



WATER 


Ain 


PROTEIN 


FAT 


NTTROGEN 
FREE EXCRETION 


FIBER 


10 


5.54 


38.29 


14.89 


26.64 


4 64 



Our meal was made from the whole bean ; we, therefore, tentatively 
assirmed this to be its composition. Analysis of the nitrogen free extract 
made by Street and Bailey' show it to consist almost entirely of galactans, 
pentosans, and other non-assimilable carbohydrates, and to contain but 
8.15 per cent of possible sources of glucose (starch, dextrin, and sucrose). 

• Soya Bean Meal. Theo. Metcalf Company, Boston, Mass. 
Cereo Gruel Flour. Cereo Company, Tappan, N. Y. 

' Carbohydrates and Enzymes of the Soy-bean. Street and Bailey, Jour. Indus, and 
Ene. Ckem., 1915, 7, 853. 



66 



THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS 



[February 



For our purposes, therefore, we considered the meal as containing roughly 
38 per cent protein, 15 per cent fat, and 8 per cent carbohydrate. Com- 
puting the muffin recipe on the basis of these figures we found its food 
value to be: 

Food value of soy bean muffins 





PROTEIN 


FAT 


CAEBOHY- 
DRATES 


FDEL 
VAltTE 




grams 
27 

6 


grams 

10.5 

6.0 

22.0 


grams 

5.6 


calories 

225 


Eggs,* 1 


78 




198 








33 


38.5 


5.6 


501 



This made into twelve small muffins gives each about 3 grams pro- 
tein, 3 grams fat, | gram carbohydrate, and about 40 calories. Or we 
could, if we desired, make the recipe into six muffins each of which would 
contain 5.6 grams of protein, 6 grams of fat, less than 1 gram of carbo- 
hydrate, and about 80 calories. In other words, they would have prac- 
tically the same food value as Joslin's Hepco cakes' each of which he con- 
siders as equivalent to one egg containing 6 grams of protein and 6 
grains of fat. 

It would seem then that this homemade soy-bean flour has solved 
our problem, since from it can be prepared a substitute for bread which 
is palatable, cheap, and low in available carbohydrates. 

Directions for making muffins and griddle cakes together wit)i a num- 
ber of other suggestions for using the meal follow. In addition to ex- 
perimenting with the soy meal we also tried out various recipes to deter- 
mine satisfactory methods of cooking the beans and to learn what other 
foods and flavors included in the diabetic diet combine well with them. 
We give the results of our findings, not as specific recipes for the most 
part, but merely in the form of suggestions as to flavor combinations 
and uses of the beans which we found to be most palatable. A number 
of these ideas were suggested by, or adapted from, a series of soy-bean 
recipes worked out by Miss Ethel Kolbe at The University of Chicago 
two years ago. 



' The diabetic clinic of the Central Free Dispensary in computing diets considers the av- 
erage egg as containing 6 grams of protein and 6 grams of fat. 
» Cf. note 4. 



1918] 



CHEAP HOMEALAJDE SOY-BEAN MEAL 



67 



Uses of the Meal 



SOY-BEAN MtTFFINS 



Soy-bean meal, J cup (70 g.; 2.5 oz.) 
Baking powder, 1 teaspoon 
Salt, i teaspoon 



Eggs, 1 

Water, 4 cup (100 cc: 4 oz.) 

Butter, 2 tablespoons (26 g.; 1 oz.) 



Spread in a pan the meal prepared by grinding raw beans, and brown 
lightly in a moderate oven, stirring often to prevent scorching. 

Sift the dry ingredients. Beat the yolk, add the water, and stir 
this mixture into the meal. Add the melted butter and fold in the 
stiffly beaten egg white. Pile lightly into six oiled muffin tins and bake 
in a m^oderate oven. 

It is better to do the mixing with a fork, as the meal easily forms a 
heavy compact mass. The one-half cup of water is merely an approxi- 
mate amoimt. Enough should be used to make the mixture about as 
soft as it can be and yet keep its shape when dropped into the pans. 

As stated before each muffiji contains about 6 grams of protein, 6 
grams of fat, 1 gram of carbohydrate, and yields about 80 calories. 

Recipe for and food value of soy-bean griddle cakes 



Soy bean meal, J cup (70 g.; 2..S oz.) 

Salt, J teaspoon 

Baking powder, 1 teaspoon 

Eggs, 1 

Water, | cup (about) 

Butter, 1 tablespoon 



grams 

27 



grams 

10.5 



grams 

5.6 



calories 

225 



402 



Either raw or parched meal may be used in this recipe. 

Sift dry ingredients. Beat the egg, add the water, and combine the 
liquid with the dry ingredients. Add the melted butter. Bake on a 
hot greased griddle. 

This recipe makes six fair sized cakes. Each contains about 5 grams 
of protein, 5 grams of fat, 1 gram of carbohydrate, and yields about 
65 calories. 

Both sweet and sour milk griddle cakes, and also v/affles may be made 
from the meal if milk is allowed the patient. It is necessary to add a 



68 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [February- 

larger amount of egg in the soy meal batters than in ordinary wheat 
cakes, and to make them somewhat thicker, so that they need a little 
assistance from the spoon in spreading. 

BREAKFAST FOOD 

Water, 1 cup Soy bean meal (unparched) 5 tablespoons 

Salt, J teaspoon (5 cup; 25 g.; 1 oz.) 

Heat water and salt to boiling and then stir in the meal gradually. 
Cook for five minutes over the direct flame, then in the double boUer 
one hour. Serve with cream as a breakfast food. 

This serving contains 10 grams of protein, 4 grams of fat, 2 grams of 
carbohydrate, and yields about 85 calories. 

The parched meal may also be prepared in the same way. The two 
products look and taste entirely different. 

FRIED SOY-BEAN MUSH 

Cook the meal as for breakfast food. Mold. SHce, dip in slightly 
beaten egg, and fry. 

SOY-BEAN CRISPS 

Water, J cup Soy-bean meal, 5 cup (25 g.; 1 oz.) 

Salt, J teaspoon 

Heat the water and salt to boihng, stir in the meal, and cook till the 
mixture thickens. This requires but a few minutes. 

Put the mush through a large meshed sieve, letting it fall in granules 
on a baking sheet. Spread lightly with a fork so as not to destroy the 
granular appearance. Parch in a moderate oven to a rich golden brown. 
The product looks much like grape nuts, but the granules are not hard. 
Eaten with cream it makes a very good breakfast food. It may also 
be used to advantage in place of bread or cracker crumbs in the various 
scalloped dishes and croquettes. 

This amount contains 10 grams protein, 4 grams fat, 2 grams carbohy- 
drate, and }delds about 85 calories. 

A great number of other recipes were tried, such as cakes, cookies, 
and puddings. 

In general, we found that the meal could be cooked by itself in any 
simple way, or combined with milk, cream, eggs, and other foods with- 
out pronounced flavors. We did not, however, like any of the products 



1918] CHEAP HOMEM.AX)E SOY-BEAK MEAL 69 

we secured when trying to make sweetened or spiced cakes or cookies; 
for saccharine, vanilla, chocolate, and spices, all seemed to accentuate 
the characteristic soy-bean flavor and to make the dishes less palatable. 

Uses of the Whole Beans 

The chief objection to the use of the whole beans is the extremely long 
time it takes to cook them, for it requires eight to ten hours of cooking 
on the stove to make them tender. After soaking, howe\-er, they can, 
be cooked in thirty to forty minutes in a pressure cooker at 15 to 18 
pounds pressure, or in a fireless cooker by putting them in with both 
radiators over night, and then reheating the radiators and putting the 
beans back for another half day. Some of the dishes prepared from 
mashed beans, however, seem better liked if the beans are stiU hard 
enough to be somewhat granular, rather than pasty, when mashed. 
Such dishes are bean croquettes, beans and cheese, and bean loaf as 
described below. Soaking the beans over night or longer helps to make 
them cook more easily. 

BAKED beaks 

The beans should be soaked twelve to twenty-four hours, and put 
into the fireless cooker over night before baking. They may then be 
prepared like ordinary baked beans, with salt pork, seasonings, and hot 
water to cover them; or by using alternate layer of beans and minced 
ham with milk for the hquid. They are especially good baked with 
ether salt pork or bacon and sufficient stewed tomatoes or Juice to cover. 

salted soy-beans 

Soak the beans over night. Spread on a baking sheet and parch in 
a moderate oven to a light brown, stirring often. Add butter or oil to 
coat the beans, sprinkle with salt, return to the oven, and parch to the 
desired brownness. These have much the appearance of salted peanuts 
and taste very good. 

uses of mashed beans 

The mashed beans may be used in a variety of ways. Seasoned with 
salt, pepper, and butter; moistened with milk, beaten till creamy, and 
served hot, they make a very good substitute for mashed potatoes. 

If molded while hot they may, when cold, be sliced and sauted for 
fried mush. This makes a dish quite different from the fried mush 
made from the meal. 



70 THE jotJRNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [February 

The mashed beans may also be seasoned, mixed with slightly beaten 
egg, made into cakes, and sauted as bean cakes. Or this same bean egg 
mixture may be shaped into croquettes, dipped in egg, and fried in 
deep fat. 

A good dressing for poultry or meat may be made by seasoning the 
mashed beans with sage, salt, pepper, onion, and butter and moisten- 
ing with hot water. This mixture may also be made into an attractive 
and appetizing bean loaf, by adding a slightly beaten egg to bind it 
together, and then shaping and baking it. 

Another good loaf is made by using beans, egg, salt, pepper, and 
chopped nut meats with liquid to make it the right consistency. This 
loaf with Of without the nuts becomes bean souflle if the egg whites are 
beaten stiff and folded in at the last. A little cheese or chopped green 
pepper, or both, greatly improve the flavor. 

Green peppers stuffed with mashed seasoned beans and baked make a 
very good dish. A dish prepared by placing alternate layers of mashed 
beans and grated cheese in a baking dish, covering with mUk, and bak- 
ing in a moderate oven, is particularly good. 

Many other hot dishes may be made from the beans and also a variety 
of salads. The suggestions already given are sufficient to show how 
materially the soy-bean can help to vary the diabetic's much restricted 
diet. It seems in fact, a^ if especially made for diabetics, for its compo- 
sition is almost ideal ; and by using both the meal and the whole beans, 
substitutes for a large number of foods which diabetics long for — bread, 
baked beans, potatoes, dressing for meat, macaroni (or rice) and cheese, 
thickening for soups, breakfast foods — can be made from it. This 
does not mean, of course, that the soy-bean any more than any other 
food should be used without restriction. It simply means that if the 
physician sees lit to allow his diabetic patient a certain amount of soy- 
beans a day — say 100 grams, which would yield less than 10 grams of 
assimilable carbohydrate — they can be used in any one or more of the 
ways given above. The methods of preparing them are so varied that 
they can be eaten every day m some fonn or other without the patient 
becoming tired of them. 

Since this paper was written, the dispensary has purchased a large 
quantity of soy beans. Part of these have been ground by a milling 
company, and the meal is being sold at cost. The dry beans are also 
sold. On clinic days a quantity are cooked in the autoclave to be pur- 
chased by patients who wish to buy them. 



1918] FOOD CONSERVATION DRIVE 71 

A FOOD CONSERVATION DRIVE IN A HIGH SCHOOL 

IRMA GROSS 

Central High School, Omaha, Nebraska 

As part of the general war work in our school, a Food Conservation 
campaign was undertaken, modelled after the national plan. The com- 
mittee in charge consisted of a faculty chairman (the writer), a student 
chairman, and four student members — one representative from each 
class. 

The drive lasted three days. On the first day, we began the advertis- 
ing, which consisted of posters and black-board printing. Some of the 
posters were furnished by the art classes, and some were those of the 
government. This slogan was featured: 

"All you need is self-denial 

FOOD CONSERVATION 

Give it a trial." 

On the second day girls, wearing cooking aprons and Food Adminis- 
tration caps, distributed in the lunch rooms "Note Book Cards" mod- 
elled after the regulation Home Cards, but adapted to high school 
students. 

On the third day there was placed on the desk of each pupil a card 
pledging the observance each week of 21 wasteless meals, 7 wheatless 
meals, 10 meatless meals, 2 candyless days, and 1 ice creamless day. 
The case for Food Conservation was presented in each room by some 
student, who urged the signing of the pledge card, but asked that it be 
signed only if the signer intended to keep the pledge. The pledge was 
purposely made easy, that there might be the minimum of insincerity. 
The meatless meals were fewer than the Home Card asked, because so 
many students said it was difficult to avoid meat sandwiches in a lunch 
brought from home. We made the points that the pledge represented 
the minimum ; that the important thing was to cut down on one's former 
consumption of the needed staples; and that one particular task of 
every high school student was to use less sugar. 

We had excellent results in the number of pledges signed, many 
rooms averaging 100 per cent. We hope to do follow-up work in keep- 



72 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [February 

ing the matter before the students, and in helping them to do more 
than the minimmn asked. 

[The latest Home Card asks for nine meatless meals each week as a "minimum of sav- 
ing." — Editor.] 



HOARDING 



Any person in the United states who buys More Foodstutes than 
he customarily keeps at home in peace times is defeating the Food 
Administration in its purpose to secure a just distribution of food and 
in its great endeavors to reduce prices. The hoarding of food in house- 
holds is not only unnecessary, as the Government is protecting the food 
supply of our people, but it is selfish and is a cause of high prices. 

Hoarding always throws a sudden strain on the railway system, and 
because of our miUtary demands it is with extreme difficulty we can 
now move the vitally necessary food to markets. 

There is much insidious propaganda in the country against food 
saving and increased production. All Opposition to Production 
AND Saving is Direct Assistance to the Enemy. 

— U. S. Food Admiiiistration. 



THE PINTO BEAN 

In the semi-arid districts extending over parts of Colorado, New Mex- 
ico, Kansas, Nebraska, and Wyoming, there have been raised this year 
200,000,000 pounds of pinto beans, a bufif-colored bean with reddish- 
brown spots, a slightly larger bean than the navy and nearly the same 
shape as the kidney. These are already coming into the eastern market, 
and have been selling for 11 cents a pound, against 20 cents or more for 
the navy bean. The pinto is excellent in flavor, cooks as quickly, and 
in every way is as valuable and satisfactory as the navy. It should not 
be confused with some colored beans that are hard and difficult to cook. 

It should be used wherever obtainable, both because it is cheaper 
than the navy, and because with encouragement it will be grown much 
more largely on land not adapted to other varieties of beans. It is 
an excellent rotating crop with wheat. The beans may be obtained 
canned. The canned beans have an attractive brown color. 



FOR THE HOMEMAKER 

HOUSEKEEPING IN WAR TIME 

MARY ALDIS 

At the outbreak of the war, I had kept house for twenty-three years. 
I had, I think, kept the house clean and my family happy. I had ar- 
ranged that they be fed three times a day with meat, vegetables, bread, 
milk, and fruit, in the customary proportions. 

During the period when my children were httle, I gave careful thought 
to what might be called a "balanced ration." With the exceptionof that 
period, never having heard of calories or vitamines, I planned meals in 
cheerful ignorance of any guiding principle but the wishes of the family. 
At the beginning of my "war-housekeeping," I questioned my family 
as to whether, during the preceding twenty-three years, they had been 
satisfied with their meals. They said that they had. 

I relate this personal experience only because I imagine it to be typical 
of a large number of housekeepers, who, like myself, went to school 
before the study of home economics had been introduced into schools 
and colleges. 

When, last spring. Food Conservation was first talked of, I began, as 
many another, to question my methods of housekeeping. Inquisitive 
poking and prjing into departments and receptacles hitherto httle 
known save to obtain assurance that they were clean, resulted in a con- 
viction that part of the much-quoted seven hundred milHon dollars' 
worth of waste had been taking place in my own kitchen. I endeavoured 
to institute reforms. There was one dramatic moment when, after much 
explanation and commands, as unequivocal as I could make them, I fished 
forth from the garbage can a half slice of bread. Calling my household 
staff together, I asked who was the guilty one. They looked at each other 
in an embarrassed fashion and made no reply. I then addressed them in 
accents befitting the solemnity of the occasion. I told them of my pro- 
found discouragement that this could happen after all that I had said 
to them; when, before their very eyes, hung the sign in red letters, — "To 
waste a crust of bread is an act of treachery to the nation." I told them 

73 



74 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [February 

that should this lamentable thing happen again, I should be obliged to 
let them all go, as no one seemed willing to accept the responsibihty. 
When I had finished, one spoke. "Please, Ma'am," she said, "I'm 
thinkin' that's the piece of bread dropped on the floor and the dog 
wouldn't eat it. What would I be doLn' with it, else, Ma'am?" 

The matter of waste duly considered, I joined a class in dietetics. 
Attendance at the first lecture resulted in a worried feeling that the 
health of my family had for twenty-three years been jeopardized by 
my criminal lack of knowledge of calories. I inquired of each member 
his weight, procured my own, and spent some time each day doing sums, 
to which I was unaccustomed. I may add in passing that during that 
anxious week, my efforts in their behalf, elicited only merriment from 
my unsympathetic family. 

At the second lecture, the lecturer stated that on an ordinary table, 
liberally suppHed, the relative foods — proteins, carbohydrates, minerals, 
fats, she called them (I learned them all with pains) were apt to be 
approximately right. Why, I ask you, didn't she say that at the first 
lecture? 

During June and July I listened to twelve lectures by that enormously 
clever young woman, and as a result set to work to revolutionize my 
housekeeping. 

There was a sign up in various windows in the town. "Keep House 
Scientifically; You Will Save Money and Live Better." I invented that 
sign. In my capacity as Chairman of the local Committee on Food Con- 
servation, I had taken pride in printing this and other red letter pro- 
nunciamentos and hanging them about. Now, it seemed, I was to 
learn what they meant. At the end of the first month I did not know 
whether I was glad or sorry that I had not "kept house scientifically" 
for twenty-three years. A conviction came over me that had I done so, 
I should never have accomplished anything else. 

However, I argued, it was no longer a matter of choice, wherein the 
family taste, the family pocket book, and possibly the family doctor 
were the only agents to be consulted. Housekeeping had become a 
grave national problem; to it must be given the most earnest thought 
and attention. 

Reading in the public press the correlated statements, put day by day 
in oppressive juxtaposition, that food would decide the war and that 
women controlled 85 per cent of the food supply, it seemed highly im- 
perative to act and act wisely and quickly. , 



1918] HOUSEKEEPING IN WAR TIME 75 

As a result of the summer's experiments, I submit the following tables. 
The menus and statements are those of the month of October, 1917. 
The household numbered an average of six, five regular members, a 
laundress three days, and occasional guests. 

During the month of May, 1917, the cost of food material per capita 
for the household was one dollar and thirty-one cents. During Octo- 
ber, it was, as may be seen, seventy-eight cents. Seventy-five cents per 
day, per capita, was the amount allowed by the government for the 
mess of a near-by Officers' Training Camp. I therefore considered 
that seventy-eight cents was highly creditable. If I seem to express 
an undue pride in the fact, it is because, with this reduction, my family 
states that, beyond a stern insistence that all taken be eaten, they have 
noticed no particular difference entailed by my "war housekeeping." 

In spite of the course of lectures, I fear that an expert dietitian would 
find many things to be criticized in the menus submitted. Two things 
have, however, been accomplished; a marked sa\ing in beef and mutton 
and in wheat. 

Food Expenditctre October, 1917 

Total bills for food 

Groceries $36.64 

Meat 25 . 14 

Fish 12.43 

Fruit and vegetables 23.56 

Milk and butter 24.99 

Water 2.60 

Ice 8.00 

Eggs 10.22 

$143.58 

Calculated on a basis of sLx in family. 

Total for food per day, $4.63. 

Total per person per day, about 78 cents. 

This averages about 25 cents per meal per person for actual cost of foodstuffs. Cost of 
preparation and fuel is not included. 

Amounts of various foodstuffs 

221- pounds of beef, 12 ounces per day, averaging 2 ounces per person 
15 pounds of mutton, 8 ounces per day, averaging IJ ounces per person 
18 pounds of pork, 8-|- ounces per day, averaging li-t- ounces per person 
26 pounds of fowl, 15 ounces per day, averaging 2'j ounces per person 

1 i pounds of veal 
83 pounds, total, meat and fowl 
44 pounds of fish, 23 ounces per day, averaging 4 ounces per person 

Note, .\bout half as many pounds of fish used during the month as meat and fowl. 



76 THE joxjRNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [February 

171 dozen eggs, 6+ eggs per day, averaging 1 per person 

21 pounds butter, 12+ ounces per day, averaging about 2 ounces per person 

48 quarts pasteurized milk, 3 pints per day, averaging J pint per person 

18 pints cream, averaging i+ pint per day for sLx people 

20 quarts skimmed milk (used only for cooking) 

Wheat: 25 pounds white flour purchased and used during the month. 
1 1 large loaves white bread 

1 box crackers. 

Sugar: 38 pounds purchased. 20 pounds of this amount were used in preserving home- 
grown fruit which would otherwise have been wasted. Practically none was used for 
cake or desserts. Deducting this 20 pounds leaves 18 pounds, or 3 pounds per per- 
son per month, i.e., the amount stated as sufiBcient by the Food Administration. 

Fats: 15 pounds Crisco (substitute for lard) 

3 gallons Wesson oil (used as substitute for lard, also salad oil) 

2 pounds butterine. 

MENUS FOR TWO WEEKS 

StTNDAY, October 1 
Family table Kitchen table 

Breakfast, 9.00 a.m. Breakfast, 8.00 a.m. 

Melons, coffee, corn bread, shirred eggs Same, without melons 

Luncheon, 1.30 Dinner, 12.00 

Smoked salmon on thin bread and butter Mutton, roasted, green com, potatoes 

Broiled lobster, melted butter Melons 

Vegetable salad 

Baked apples — Turkish coffee 

Supper, 7.00 Supper 

Cold mutton, bread and butter, cocoa None served, all out 

Monday, October 2 

Breakfast, 8.00 Breakfast, 7.30 

Melons, eggs, bran muffins, coffee Same, without melons 

Luncheon, 1.30 Dinner, 12.00 

Corned beef hash, creamed onions Same 

Brown Betty, with hard sauce ' 

Dinner, 7.00 Supper, 5.30 

Spaghetti, tomato sauce Lettuce salad, white bread, smoked sahnon 

Lettuce salad, cold mutton Apple sauce 
Fruit pudding 

TtJESDAY, October 3 

Breakfast Breakfast 

Oranges, wheatena, French toast, coffee Same, but without fruit 

Luncheon Dinner 

None served Flank steak, spaghetti, white bread, pota- 

toes, lettuce 



1918] 



HOUSEKEEPING IN W.\R TIMES 



77 



Dinner 
Black bean soup 
Stewed chicken with rice, string beans 

white flour rolls 
Apple sauce 

Wednesday, October 4 



Supper 

Cold mutton, fried potatoes, tomatoes, 
white bread, tea 



Breakfast 

Oranges, corn bread, bacon, coffee 

Luncheon 
Black bean soup 
Rice, rolls 

Dinner 

Chicken soup 

Steamed finnan haddie on toast with 

cream sauce, baked potatoes 
Lettuce salad, cassava bread toasted 



Breakfast 

Puffed rice, bacon, corn bread, coffee 

Dinner 

Black bean soup, minced mutton, string 
beans, rice 

Supper 

Same, without soup 



Thorsday, October 5 

Breakfast 
Same 



Friday, October 6 

Breakfast 
Same 



Breakfast 

Oatmeal, coffee, rolls 

Luncheon 
None ser\'ed 

Dinner 

Chicken soup — white bread 
Mackerel, potatoes, carrots 
Deep dish apple pie 

Breakfast 

Eggs, com bread, coffee, hone>' 

Luiuheon 

Creamed chicken, white bread 
Fresh tomato with mayonnaise, milk 

Dinner 

Clear soup 

Stuffed baked tomatoes with bacon 
Roast chicken stuffed with oysters, can- 
died sweet potatoes, white bread 
Melons, coffee 

Saturday, October 7 

Breakfast 

Soft boiled eggs, white bread toast, apple 
jeUy 

Luncheon 
Oyster stew 

Tomato with mayonnaise, toasted cassava 
bread 



Dinner 

Mackerel, potatoes, carrots 

Supper 

Creamed fish, white bread and butter, tea 
Apple pie 



Dinner 

Chicken, beans, potatoes 

Fresh sliced peaches, white bread 

Supper 

Cold corned beef, fried potatoes, wliite 
bread, cocoa 



Breakfast 
Same 



Dinner 

Corned beef hash, fried sweet potatoes, 
tomatoes, white bread 



78 



THE JOTXRNAI, OF HOME ECONOMICS 



[February 



Dinner Supper 

Chicken soup Black bean soup with hard boiled eggs, 

Flounders, hollandaise sauce, boiled pota- brown bread 

toes, brown bread 
Apple pudding, with hard sauce 

StrxDAY, October 8 

Breakfast 
Eggs, white bread, coffee 



Dinner 

Creamed cliicken, potatoes, com 



Breakfast 

Melons, creamed fish on toast, coffee, 
doughnuts 

Luncheon 

Chicken soup 

Smoked shoulder of pork, baked in milk, 

potatoes, corn 
Sliced tomatoes — French dressing, toasted 

crackers 
Melons Turkish coffee 

Supper Supper 

Salad, cheese, tea, white bread, apple None ser\-ed, aU out 

sauce, and doughnuts 

Monday, October 9 



Breakfast 

Wheatena, coffee, boiled eggs, graham muf- 
fins, jam 

Lurwheon 

Cooked tomatoes, corn on cob 
Toasted muffins, cocoa, melons 

Dinner 

None served 



Breakfast 

Eggs, toasted white bread, coffee 

Dinner 

Roast pork, carrots, potatoes, brown bread 

Supper 

Cold pork, fried potatoes, tea 



Tuesday, October 10 



Breakfast 
None served 

Luncheon 
Hamburg steak with onions, brown bread, 
cocoa 

Dinner 

Split pea soup 

Cold sliced pork, tomato salad, white 

bread 
Hot pancakes with honey 

Wednesday, October 11 

Breakfast Breakfast 

Melons, eggs, com bread, apple preserves, Eggs, brown bread, puffed corn, coffee 

coffee 



Breakfast 

Eggs, brown bread, coffee 

Dinner 
Same 

Supper 

Scrambled eggs, coffee, brown bread 



1918] 



HOUSEKEEPING IN WAR TIMES 



79 



Luncheon Dinner 

Meat stew (made from left over Hamburg) Same 

cocoa 



Dinner 
Plain soup 
Broiled fish with salt pork, baked potatoes 

baked tomatoes 
Stewed peaches 

Thursday, October 12 



Supper 
Pea soup, bread, butter, tea, stewed apri- 
cots 



Breakfast 

"Liberty" bread (made with hominy, 
potatoes, and § as much white flour), 
melons, cream cheese, coffee 

Lunclieon 

Creamed fish baked, "liberty" bread, pears 

Dinner 
Melons 
Soup 

Hot Swiss chard with hollandaise sauce 
Boiled rice — hard sauce 



Breakfast 

"Liberty" bread, eggs, coffee 



Dinner 

Fried fish with ham garnish, potatoes and 
vegetables 

Sttpper 

Boiled unpoUshed rice with hard sauce, 
tea, fruit, "liberty" bread 



Friday, October 13 



Breakfast 
French toast, oatmeal, coffee 
Orange marmalade 

Luncheon 
None served 

Dinner 
Soup (tomato) 

Mutton stew with onions and dumplings 
Apple sauce 



Breakfast 

Oatmeal, eggs, coffee, "liberty" bread 

Dinner 
Mutton stew with onions and vegetables, 
pancakes 

Supper 
Rice with syrup — cocoa 



Saturday, October 14 



Breakfast 

"Liberty" bread, potato pancakes with 
honey, coffee 

Luncheon 
None served 

Dinner 
Creamed vegetable soup 
Saddle of mutton, with jelly sauce, pota- 
toes, beets 
Apple sauce 



Breakfast 

"Liberty" bread, coffee, eggs 

Dinner 
Mutton stew with vegetables 
Pancakes 

Supper 

Baked beans, "liberty" bread, cocoa 



80 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [February 

NUTRITIOUS VEGETABLE SOUPS 

ELIZABETH SPEAGUE 
Bead of Department of Home Economics, University of Kansas 

The situation which is confronting us today with regard to the short- 
age of certain of our food products may seem to be strictly a problem of 
the present period. The quotations below from the essays of Count 
Rumford apparently might be taken from a current magazine, for they 
concern grain shortage and methods of meeting it. Benjamin Thomp- 
son, afterward Count Rimiford, was a New England schoolmaster with 
Tory sympathies, who fled from this country during the Revolutionary 
war and became eminent abroad as a scientist, diplomat, and military 
man. In the latter capacity, he studied methods of feeding large numbers 
of people at moderate cost. It is interesting to find that his theories, as 
shown in the following quotations, are as pertinent today as they were 
then. 

It is a common saying that Necessity is the mother of invention; and noth- 
ing is more strictly or more generally true. It may even be shown that 
most of the successive improvements in the affairs of men in a state of civil 
society, of which we have any authentic records, have been made under the 
pressure of necessity; and it is no small consolation, in times of general alarm, 
to reflect upon the probabihty that upon such occasions useful discoveries will 
result from the united efforts of those who, either from motives of fear or senti- 
ments of benevolence, labor to avert the impending evil. 

The alarm in this country at thepresent period, on accountof thehigh prices 
of grain, and the danger of a scarcity, has turned the attention of the country 
to a very important subject, the investigation of the science of mitrilion, — a 
subject so curious in itself and so highly interesting to mankind, that it seems 
truly astonishing it should have been so long neglected; but in the manner in 
which it is now taken up, both by the House of Commons and the Board of 
Agriculture, there is reason to hope that it will receive thorough scientific 
examination. And, if this should be the case, I will venture to predict that 
the important discoveries and improvements which must result from these 
inquiries will render the alarms, which gave rise to them, forever famous in 
the annals of society. (November, 1795.) 

Count Rumford proved by practical feeding experiments, the value of 
certain types of soups, which have since been successfully used in soup 
kitchens and school lunches of all countries. 



1918] NITTRITIOUS VEGETABLE SOUPS 81 

The difference in the apparent goodness, or palatableness and apparent 
nutritiousness, of the same kind of food, when prepared in different ways, 
struck me very forcibly; and I constantly found that the richness of quality of 
a soup depended more upon a proper choice of the ingredients, and a proper 
management of the fire in the combination of those ingredients, than upon the 
quantity of solid nutritious matter emploj'ed — much more upon the art and 
skill of the cook than upon the amount of the sums laid out in the market. 

But what surprised me not a little was the discovery of the very small quan- 
tity of solid food which, when properly prepared, will sufEce to satisfy hunger 
and support hfe and health, and the very trifling expense at which the stoutest 
and most laborious man may in any country be fed . 

After an experience of more than five years in feeding the poor in Munich, 
^during which every experiment was made that could be devised, not only 
with regard to the choice of articles used as food but also in respect to their 
different combinations and proportions, and to various ways in which they 
could be prepared and cooked — it was found that the cheapest, most savoury and 
most nourishing food that could be provided was a soup composed of pearl 
barley, pease, potatoes, cuttings of fine wheaten bread, vineger, salt, and water 
in certain portions. 

The variety of vegetables and grain in the modern market makes a 
vast number of combinations possible in such soups. Experiments have 
been made in these laboratories to determine the desirable proportions of 
the ingredients for vegetable soups and the methods of combining them. 

GENERAL PROPORTIONS 

The materials to be used have been arranged in three groups; (1) 
Vegetable basis, (2) Thickening materials, (3) Seasonings. The soups 
should be thick with vegetables, and the peas, beans, and grain, should 
be left whole. If desired, the soup can be converted into a smooth puree 
by pressing the vegetables through a fine strainer, but this is not advised. 

Vegetable basis. For each pint of soup there should be 1 cup of cooked 
vegetable. 

Use I cup or \ cup, uncooked, of any one of the following vegetables 
or of any suitable combination of two or more, the amount depending 
on the degree in which each kind increases in bulk. This quantity weighs 
from 2 to 3 ounces dry and will measure about 1 cup cooked. 

Beans, — black, kidney, lima, navy, pinto, soy;peas, — dried, split, cow; 
corn, — dried, canned. 



82 



THE JOITRNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS 



[February 



Thickening materials. For 1 pint of soup use 1| tablespoonfuls of 
flour. From 1 to 4 tablespoonfuls of the whole grains may be used, — 
oats, barley, rice, rye, kafir corn, feterita. 

Seasonings. 1. Condiments, — salt, pepper, celery salt, chili pepper, 
catsup, vinegar. 

2. Flavor vegetables, — onion, celery, carrot, okra. 

3. Fat, either uncooked, or browned with the flavor vegetables or 
with the flour. 

An almost unlimited number of combinations may be made using these 
general proportions. The following are especially good. 



J cup black beans 
I cup kafir com 
J cup tomato 
1 tablespoon wheat 



Black Bean and Kafir Cam 



li tablespoon flour 

1 teaspoon salt 

Pepper 

Water to make 1 pint soup 



i cup lima beans 
^ cup canned corn 
1 tablespoon feterita 
1 tablespoon onion 



Lima Bean and Corn 



IJ tablespoon flour 

1 teaspoon salt 

Pepper 

Water to make 1 pint soup 



\ cup lima beans 
§ cup tomatoes 
1 tablespoon feterita 
1 tablespoon onion 



\ cup lima beans 
\ cup soy beans 
J cup tomato 
Ij tablespoon flour 

J cup navy beans 
J cup feterita 
1 tablespoon onion 
IJ tablespoon flour 



Lima Bean and Tomato 

IJ tablespoon flour 

1 teaspoon salt 

Pepper 

Water to make 1 pint soup 

Lima Bean and Soy Bean 

1 teaspoon salt 

Pepper 

Water to make 1 pint soup 

Navy Bean and Feterita 

1 teaspoon salt 

1 saltspoon celery salt 

Pepper 

Water to make 1 pint soup 



i cup soy beans 

I cup kafir com 

1 tablespoon canned corn 

li tablespoon flour 



Soy Bean and Kafir Corn 



1 teaspoon salt 

Pepper 

Water to make 1 pint soup 



1918] NUTRITIOUS VEGETABLE SOUPS 83 

Soy Bean and Tomalo 
i cup soy beans 1} tablespoon flour 

J cup tomatoes 1 teaspoon salt 

1 tablespoon kafir corn Pepper 

1 tablespoon canned corn Water to make 1 pint soup 

Cent' Peas and Felerila 
i cup cow peas Ij tablespoon flour 

J cup feterita 1 teaspoon salt 

i cup tomatoes Pepper 

1 tablespoon com Water to make 1 pint of soup 

Can- Peas and Kafir Corn 
J cup cow peas 1 teaspoon salt 

i cup kafir com Pepper 

1 tablespoon onion Water to make 1 pint soup 

IJ tablespoon flour 

Cow Peas and Tomalo 
i cup cow peas Ij tablespoon flour 

I cup tomatoes 1 teaspoon salt 

1 tablespoon feterita Pepper 

1 tablespoon onion Water to make 1 pint of soup 

Feterita and Soy Bean 
\ cup feterita IJ tablespoon flour 

i cup soy beans 1 teaspoon salt 

1 tablespoon onion Pepper 

1 tablespoon com Water to make 1 pint soup 

Note. — Some of the dry ingredients increase from three to four times in bulk during cook- 
ing. In most cases, one cup of cooked material is included in each pint (two cups) of soup 

Following is an example showing how many varieties may be included 
in one soup. These amounts should make two quarts of soup. 

} cup nav-y beans IJ cup corn (canned) 

i cup soy beans IJ cup tomatoes 

i cup black beans \ cup flour 

i cup cow peas 2 teaspoons salt 

i cup kafir com Water to make two quarts soup 

Where kafir corn and feterita are not available, bariey, oats, rice, or" 
rye may be substituted in the same proportions. The soups may also 
be made without any whole grains, but the amount of thickening would 
need to be slightly increased. 



1. Cook dried vegetables and grains. If two or more are to be used, 
they may be cooked together. {Exception — Do not cook cow peas with 
other vegetables. Use a large amount of water to extract the strong flavor.) 



84 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [February 

Dried Vegetables. To cook by boiling in an ordinary kettle, soak from 
eight to ten hours in cold water. Drain. Add twice their bulk of 
water. Boil till well softened (about two hours). 

To cook in a pressure cooker, soaking is unnecessary. Add twice 
their bulk of water. Cook 1 hour at 15 to 20 pounds pressure. Drain 
off water. 

Grains. The method of cooking is the same as for dried vegetables, 
except that the water should not be drained. 

2. If both fat and flavor vegetables are to be used, brown the fat, add 
the chopped vegetables and brown, then add to the cooked vegetables. 

3. Add the tomato or corn and seasonings, being careful to blend to 
secure a good flavor. 

4. Add the flour to thicken. (Add water if necessary to make re- 
quired volume.) 

5. Cook all together, two hours in a double boiler or from one-half to 
one hour in a pressure cooker. This operation is very essential in order 
to blend and to develop the proper flavor. 

6. To secure the right amount, reduce by boiling or add water, which- 
ever may be necessary. 

Allow one cup for each serving. The amounts given are for one pint or 
two servings. To serve a larger number multiply by one-half the number 
of servings desired. 

It would be a great economy in time to make a large quantity and pre- 
serve for future use by canning. 

NUTRITIVE VALUE AND COST 

At the present high retail prices, these soups cost from 1 cent to 2| 
cents per one cup serving. The use of canned corn and tomatoes in- 
creases the cost quite out of proportion to the added food value, but 
these are desirable for flavor. If home canned instead of commercial 
products are used, the cost will be much lower. 

The soups provide a good combination of well balanced food materials, 
each serving from 8 to 12 grams of protein and 150 to 200 calories. They 
are highly desirable also because of their mineral salt content. While 
the addition of fat would increase the cost, it would also increase the 
food value. Without either meat-broth or fat, the soups are exceedingly 
palatable. 

A simple and satisfj-ing lunch can be prepared, using the soup as the 
main part of the meal. 



EDITORIAL 

The Voluntary Ration. Many women have been asking that the 
Food Administration should tell them not merely what per cent of 
wheat, and meat, and sugar, and fat they should save but give some 
definite statements of how much they may use. Many housekeepers 
do not know how much they have been using of these diiJerent foods, 
and foimd it very difficult to know just what is meant by going without 
25 per cent of wheat or 10 per cent of sugar. 

It is not easy to give such a definite statement because there is such a 
very great variation in the use of each of these that any figure deter- 
mined on might mean for many people an increased rather than a less- 
ened use, while for others it might mean unnecessary hardship. The 
working man who depends very largely on bread, and the wealthy 
woman who has a varied diet and uses little bread cannot be reached by 
the same statement. 

Yet an attempt has been made especially at the request of a group of 
New York women to formulate such a ration based, as nearly as may be, 
upon the amount of food available at present. The voluntary ration 
will help a great many who are earnestly trying to obey the behests of 
the Food Administration, and who have not known how. 

UXITED STATES FOOD ADMINISTRATION RATION CARD 

Weekly Allowance per Person 

Fish: Oysters and sea food, all kinds As much as necessary 

Poultry and Game: As much as necessary 

Meat: Beef (fresh, salted, tinned and hashed) ; 
mutton, lamb and veal (mutton by prefer- 
ence); pork (the weekly allowance of pork 
perperson should not exceed half a pound) 2\ lbs. gross weight 

Butter ^ lb. 

Cooking and Kitchen Fats: Margarine, lard 
substitutes, such as corn, cottonseed, pea- 
nut, and olive oils Only as much as necessary 

(We are also shipping these abroad) 

85 



86 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [February 

Wheat Flour: For use in cooking, such as grav- 
ies and sauces. (Use as far as possible com , 
starch, cracker dust and bread crumbs) 
(Remember that macaroni is made from 
wheat flour) 5 lb. 

War Bread: Made according to regulations of 
Food Administration; i.e., must contain 
at least 20 per cent per unit of a substi- 
tute for wheat flour. (3 lbs. of bread re- 
quire 2j lbs. of flour) 3 lbs. 

Sugar: Including table use and in cooking, in- 
cluding candies and sweetmeats (not the 
sugar used for canning and preserving) . . 5 lb. 

Nonwheat Cereals: Com meal, oatmeal, rice, 

hominy, barley, and rye As much as necessary 

Vegetables and Fruits: Fresh and dried As much as necessary 

Milk: (Children must have full allowance) . . 

Cream Only as much as necessary 

Cheese As much as desired 

THE QUESTION BOX 

Question: What is flat sour which we have heard so much about in 
connection with the canning of peas, corn and asparagus? 

Answer: Flat sour is caused by spoilage, in some cases in the raw ma- 
terial before canning, in others after canning as the result of insufficient 
processing. It most often results from giving the regular process to 
material which has been allowed to stand for some time such as peas 
remaining in a load over night or corn left in a pile imtil it begins to heat. 
The raw material, on superficial examination may show no evidence of 
fermentation. When such material is canned it is more or less sour to 
the smell and taste but may be sterile, the heat of processing having 
killed the bacteria. 

Souring may also take place shortly after processing or the spoilage 
may be delayed for weeks or even months. In either case the heat used 
was insufficient to kill the vegetative forms or spores, but may have 
injured them to such an extent that time was necessary for recovery 
and subsequent development.^ 

All evidence points to conclusions that Bacillus botulinus, the organ- 
ism responsible for botulism, is seldom present in cases of "flat sour," 
although it is not improbable that it may be a contributing cause in 
very rare instances. 

' Methods followed in the commercial canning of foods. United States Department of 
Agriculture, Bulletin No. 196. 



BOOKS AND LITERATURE 



The Modern Milk Problem. By J. Scon 
MacNdtt. Xew York: The MacmiUan 
Company, 1917, pp. 258. $2.00. By 
mail of the Journal, S2.12. 
This volume appears at an opportune time, 
for the economics of the milk question is par- 
ticularly in the minds of the consumer this 
winter, especially in our large cities. The 
book is designed not only for those directly 
interested in milk production but also for 
health officials who presumably control the 
sanitation of the supply, and for "all others 
who are interested in the understanding and 
solution of the milk problem." The book is 
written for the most part in non-scientific 
language, — in places perhaps too popular, 
— but in some respects this will add to its 
general usefulness. 

There are five divisions. The first two 
give explanations concerning the present 
status of the milk question, the third and 
fourth discuss the sanitary and economic 
factors involved in milk production, and the 
last contains suggestions relative to the so- 
lution of the whole problem. Considerable 
data on milk production and distribution is 
contained in an admirable appendix. The 
discussion of the economic factors is particu- 
larly recommended to those who are inclined 
to see only the consumer's point of view. 
Some rather loose English and too many in- 
definite statements, which are likely to give 
the non-technical reader wrong impressions, 
are to be regretted, but these should not de- 
tract from the general good the book should 
do. 

The following conclusions are well worth 
repeating here. "Health authorities must 
adopt improved methods of sanitation and, 
with legislative sanction and support, estab- 
lish rational regulation based upon the grad- 
ing principle. 



"Legislators must recognize the necessity 
of legislation authorizing such regulation, as 
opposed to the dangers of inaction or parti- 
san interest. 

".Agricultural authorities must advise the 
farmer in the methods of producing sanitary 
milk efficiently. 

"The dairy farmer must welcome this as- 
sistance and make use of all possible means 
of improving his methods and management, 
and he must organize. 

"The dealer must respect the interests of 
the farmer, work for the solution of their 
common problems, and pay a fair price for 
milk according to quality. 

"The consumer, finally, must recognize 
quality in milk; he must be willing to pay a 
fair price for good milk and a reasonably 
higher price for better milk." 

John F. Norton. 

University of Chicago. 

The World's Food. Vol. 74, whole no. 163 
of The Annals of the American Academy 
of Political and Social Science, Philadel- 
phia, 1917, pp. 313. $1.00. 
One of the most valuable contributions to 
the present food situation is made in TJie 
World's Food. It contains figures and sta- 
tistics not easily available, as well as articles 
of general interest both to scientific workers 
and to housekeepers. 

It deals not only with accomplished 
work, but with plans for another year. Not 
only -America's food supply, but that of 
Norway, Sweden, Holland, Switzerland, 
France, Great Britain, and Japan is dis- 
cussed by representatives of each nation, 
including such distinguished people as 
Nansen, Monod, and Viscount Ishii. 

One of the papers is reprinted in this 
number of the Journal and others will 
probably be reprinted in the near future. 
87 



88 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [February 

The Slory oj the Sargent Industrial School at will be particularly interesting to every stu- 

Beacon, New York, 1891-1916. Told by dent of the domestic service problem and to 

Sarah Louise Arnold. Printed for the aU who have considered what can be done 

scholars. Boston: The Merrymount Press, for training workers in this field of labor. 

1917, pp. 77. The whole record should have a place in 

The description of the Domestic Service every library of home economics education. 

Course in the Sargent Industrial Schoohvhich It will be found both delightfully told, and 

started in 1894 and continued until 1910, most suggestive. 

B. R. Antdrews. 



PAMPHLETS RECEIVED 

Issued by the United States Department of Agriculture: 

Food Requirements of the Human Body. (Suggestions for teachers in secondary schools.) 

The Marketing of Canning Club Products. Lewis B. Flohr. Bureau of Markets. 

Cooperative Purchasing and Marketing Organizations among Farmers in the United States. 
Bulletin No. 547. 

House Rats and Mice. David E. Lantz. Farmers' Bulletin 895. 

Removal of Stains from Clothing and Other Textiles. Harold L. Lang and .\nna H. Whittelsey. 
Farmers' Bulletin 861. 

United States Food Leaflets: No. 1, Start the Day Right; No. 2, Do You Know Corn Meal?; 
No. 3, A Whole Dinner in One Dish; No. 4, Choose Your Food Wisely; No. 5, Make a 
Little Meat Go a Long Way; No. 6, Do You Know Oatmeal?; No. 7, Food for your Chil- 
dren; No. 8, Instead of Meat. (Issued by the Dept. of Agr. and the Food Adminis- 
tration.) 

Issued by the Department of the Interior: 
Home Economics Teaching under Present Economic Conditions. Circular Sept. 5, 1917. 
Saving Fuel in Heating a House, Technical Paper 97. 

Lessons in Community aiui National Life, Community Leaflets No. 4, 5, and 6. 
Department Store Education. Helen R. Norton. Bulletin No. 9, 1917. 

Issued by U. S. Department of Labor, Children's Bureau: 
Child Labor in Warring Countries. Anna Rochester. Industrial Series No. 4, Bureau 
Publication No. 27. 

Issued by the United States Public Health Ser\'ice: 
Safe Milk. Supplement No. 31 to the Public Health Reports. 

Poliomyelitis (Infantile Paralysis). Reprint No. 403 from the Public Health Reports. 
The Notijiablc Diseases Reprint No. 394 from the Public Health Reports. 
Occupation and Mortality. Reprint No. 400 from the Public Health Reports. 

Issued by the publishers listed: 
A series of leaflets on Foods, School Lunches, Food Conservation, Clotliing Conservation, 

Sanitation, Household Management. Worcester County Farm Bureau, Worcester, 

Mass. 
Special Bulletin, Food Department, Patriotic Numbers, Vol. 4, Nos. IS and 16. North 

Dakota .Agricultural E.^periment Station; Agricultural College, N. Dak. 
Preservation of Meat, -Agricultural E.xtension Bui. No. 12. .Agricultural College, N. Dak. 



1918] BIBLIOGR.\PHY OF HOME ECONOAUCS 89 

Cheese Making, Bulletin Xo. 9. The Connecticut Agricultural College Extension Service, 
Storrs, Conn. 

Hoiu to Store Vegetables for Winter Use, Circular 92. Extension Ser\'ice of the College of 
Agriculture, The University of Wisconsin, Madison, Wis. 

Textiles, Special Bulletin No. 15. The University of Minnesota, Agricultural Extension 
Division, University Farm, St. Paul, Minn. 

A Child Welfare Research Station, Bulletin, Jan. 15, 1916. State University of Iowa, Iowa 
City, Iowa. 

Agriculture and Home Economies. P. H. Wilson. State Superintendent of Public Instruc- 
tion, Oklahoma City, Okla. 

Save Our Sugar. Bertha E. Shapleigh. New York City Section, Emergency Committee of 
the A. H. E. A., New York City Section Office, 19 W. 44th St. Price 10 cents. 

The Adequacy and Economy of Some Ci y Dietaries. H. C. Sherman and L. H. Gillett. Bu- 
reau of Food Supply, the New York .Association for Improving the Condition of the 
Poor. 

New York as Foster Mother. Children's Home Bureau, Department of Public Charities, 
New York City. 

Infant Welfare Work in War Time. Grace L. Meigs, M.D. American Medical .Association, 
535 N. Dearborn St., Chicago, 111. 



BIBLIOGRAPHY OF HOME ECONOMICS 

PERIODICAL LITERATURE 
Bacteriology 

Early Instructors in Bacteriology in the United States. David H. Belgey, Jour. Bacterial. , 
2 (1917), No. 6, p. 595. 

Does a Fatigue To.xin Exist? F. S. Lee and B. Aronovitch, Proc. Soc. Ex per. Biol. Med., 
14 (1917), pp. 155-154; Abs. in Abs. Bacterial., I, No. 5, p. 501. 

Home Canned Goods and Botulism. Editorial, Jour. Amer. Med. Assn., 69 (1917), No. 
IS, p. 1262. Also Jour. Home Econ., 9 (1917), No. 12, p. 578. 

Cheese Poisoning. Jour. Lab. and Clin. Med., 2 (1917), No. 11, p. 761. Abs. in The 
Jour. Amer. Med. Ass>i., 69 (1917), No. 12, p. 1031. 

Side-lights on the Production of Sanitary Milk. Luke Dykstra, Milk Dealer, Milwaukee, 
6 (1917), pp. 34-36. 

Hints for Producing Sanitary and Certified Milk. Luke Dykstra, Milk Dealer, Milwau- 
kee, 6 (1917), pp. 44-48. 

Certified Milk and the Bacillus of Contagious .Abortion. Editorial, Jour. Amer. Med. 
Assn., 69 (1917), No. 22, p. 1879. 

A New Method of Milk Sterilization — Milk bacteria which proliferate before and surWve 
pasteurization. Medical Record, New York, 92 (1917), No. 10, p. 409. 

A Preliminary Study of the Fat and Bacterial Content of Ice Cream. P. G. Heinemann 
and J. E. Gordan, Creamery and Milk Plant Monthly, Chicago, 5 (1917), pp. 44-52. Abs. 
b Abs. Bacterial., I, No. 5, p. 412. 



90 THE JOLTHNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [February 

The Disinfection of Drinking Water. H. D. Dakin and E. K. Dunham, Amer. Jour. 
Med. Set., 154, No. 2, pp. 181-188. .Abs. in Jour. Amer. Med. Assn., 68 (1917), No. 26, 
p. 2008. 

Drinking Fountains, Sanitary and Insanitary. Current Comment, Jour. Amer. Med. 
Assn., 69 (1917), No. 15, p. 1267. 

Meat Inspection with Special Reference to the Developments of Recent Years. Howarth, 
Lam:el, London, 2 (1917), No. 4905. 

Butter as a Vehicle of Infection in Typhoid. Mark F. Boyd, Jour. Amer. Med. Assn., 69 
(1917), No. 24, p. 2030. 

The Possibility of Typhoid Infection through Vegetables. CO. Melick., Jour. Infect. Dis- 
eases, 21, pp. 28-38. 

Nineteen cases of Typhoid Fever due to Eating Turkey Salad. P. S. Schenck, Jour. 
Amer. Med. Assn., 69 (1917), No. 17, p. 1402. 

"Ropy" Bread. J. M. Beattie, Lancet, London, 193 (1917), No. 4902, p. 211. 

A Study of the Micro-organisms of Dental Caries. P. R. Howe and R. E. Hatch, Jour. 
Med. Research, July, 1917, p. 481. 

Gold-crowned Teeth as a Source of Danger. B. H. Baldwin, British Med. Jour., Novem- 
ber 3, 1917, No. 2966, p. 603. 

The Etiology of Common Colds, The probable rdle of a filterable virus as the causative 
factor — Experiments on the cultivation of a minute micro-organism from the nasal secre- 
tion filtrates. Geo. B. Foster, Jr., Jour. Infect. Diseases, 21 (1917), No. 5, p. 451. 

The Bacteriology of Acute Epidemic Respiratory Infections Commonly Called Influenza. 
G. Mathers, Jour. Infect. Diseases, 21 (1917), pp. 1-8. 

The Prevention of Epidemic Catarrh. D. McKenzie, Medical Press and Circle, London, 
N. S., 103, pp. 145-146. Abs. in Abs. Bacterial., I, No. 5, p. 424. 

The Relation of Mosquitoes and Flies to the Epidemiology of Acute Poliomyelitis 
Hideyo Noguchi and Kudo Rokusaburo, Jour. Exper. Med., 26 (1917), p. 49. 

Mode of Infection, Means of Prevention and Treatment of Epidemic Menincitis. Simon 
Flexner, Jour. Amer. Med. Assn., 69 (1917), p. 639. 

Occurrence of Tubercle Bacilli in the Breast Milk of Tuberculous Women. S. L. Wang 
and F. Coonley, Jour. Amer. Med. Assn., 69 (1917), p. 531. 

Laundries and the Public Health. A Sanitary Study including Bacteriological Tests. 
M. C. Schroeder and S. G. Southerland, Pub. Health Reports. Feb. 9, 1917, Reprint No. 385. 

Observations and Experunents on Dishwashing. W. A. Manheimer and T. Ybanez, Amer. 
Jour. Pub. Health, 7, pp. 614-618. 

Contact Infection. Editorial, Jour. Amer. Med. Assn., 69 (1917), p. 567. 

Fumigation as a Disinfecting Agency. C. T. Kingzett, H. F. Bottomley and J. E. Brim- 
ley, Medical Press and Circle, London, N. S., 104, pp. 157-158. Abs. in Abs. Bacterial., I, 
No. 5, p. 427. 

Intestinal Bacteria in Children. W. W. Ford, K. D. Blackfan and M. D. Batchelor, 
Amex. Jour. Diseases Children, 14(1917), No. 5, p. 354. 

The Influence of Milk and Carbohydrate Feeding on the character of Intestinal Flora. T. 
G. Hull and L. F. Rettger, Jour. Bacterial., 2 (1917), p. 47. 

A Contribution to the Etiology of Diarrhoea of Infants. MUe. Tsiklinsky, Annates de 
I' Institut Pasteur, 31 (1917), No. 10, p. 517. 

The Epidemiology of Pellagra in Nashville. J. W. Jobling, W. F. Peterson, B. G. Tucker 
and F. C. Coston, Jour. Infect. Diseases, 21 (1917), No. 2, p. 109. 

The Relation of Pellagra to the Location of the Domicile in the Inman Mills, S. Carolina. 
J. F. SUer, P. E. Garrison and W. J. MacNeal, Arch. Int. Med., 20 (1917), No. 4, p. 521. 

The Etiology of Sprue. B. K. Ashford, Amer. Jour. Med. Sci., 154 (1917), No. 2, p. 157. 



NEWS FROM THE FIELD 



The Ninth Annual Meeting of the 
Iowa Home Economics Association was 
held in Des Moines November 1 and 2. 

The adjustment of home economics work 
to meet the present situation was the key- 
note of the addresses. In speaking of the 
costume in war times, Miss Ethelyn Miller, 
head of the Domestic Art Department at 
Iowa College stated that by spring the only 
available fabrics for the patriotic woman 
would be silk and cotton. It will be neces- 
sary for us to readjust our ideas of the ap- 
propriateness of silk for the business costume. 
Jliss Edna WTiite, director of Home Eco- 
nomics in the University of Ohio urged food 
study as a patriotic duty. Never before has a 
need for general information as to the funda- 
mental principles of diet been more imperative. 
The Iowa plan for the teaching of Voca- 
tional Home Economics was presented by 
Mr. John L. Chemey, State Inspector of 
Normal Training Schools. 

The importance of the study of the cloth- 
ing budget as a part of the high school 
course was strongly set forth by Miss Janet 
Cation of Iowa State College. 

Mrs. .\nna L. Burdick, director of Voca- 
tional Guidance for the Des Moines school 
system, in speaking of vocations for w-omen 
other than teaching, urged the cooperation 
of women in all lines of professional and 
industrial work. It is only as we work to- 
gether and face the problems together that 
we can hope to solve the problems for the 
wage earning woman. 

That Iowa does not so much need new laws 
but an enforcement of those already on the 
statute books was the keynote of the paper 
by Miss Bessie McClenahan, of the Bureau 
of Social Welfare, University of Iowa. 

Miss Olive Young of Iowa State Teach- 
ers' College conducted a Round Table 
upon the subject of the Readjustment of 



Teaching to Meet Present Needs. Those 
reporting were Miss Anna S. Oleson, Super- 
visor of Home Economics, Ft. Dodge, Miss 
Bloy of Cornell College, Miss Anna M. Peter- 
son of the Consolidated School at Ottosen, 
and Miss Florence Wilcox of Osage. 

Federal Board for Vocational Educa- 
tion. The first official Federal definition of 
vocational education under the vocational 
education act is made public in a bulletin 
on the policies of the Federal Board for 
Vocational Education, issued in December. 

"To the extent that it is subsidized by 
the Federal Govenmient under the Smith- 
Hughes .Vet," declares the board, "voca- 
tional training must be vocational training 
for the common wage-earning employments. 
It may be given to boys and girls who, having 
selected a vocation, desire preparation for en- 
tering it as trained wage-earners; to boys and 
girls who, having already taken .up a wage- 
earning emplojTnent, seek greater effi- 
ciency in that employment; or to wage- 
earners established in their trade or occupa- 
tion, who wish, through increase in their ef- 
ficiency and wage-earning capacity, to ad- 
vance to positions of responsibility." 

The guiding principle of the newly cre- 
ated system of vocational education is an- 
nounced to be that "the education to be 
furnished must be under public supervision 
and control designed to train persons for 
useful employ-ment, whether in agriculture, 
trade and industry, or home economics." 

To meet the demand for information as to 
the policies of the Federal board, an edition 
of 100,000 copies of this bulletin is being 
published and distributed to members of 
Congress, Federal officials, state and city 
school officials, manufacturers, chambers of 
commerce, labor unions, educators, news- 
papers, magazines, and, in general, to the 
interested public. 

91 



92 



THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS 



[February 



In addition to the statement of policies, 
die bulletin contains analyses of the law, 
together with statistical tables showing the 
amounts of money available to the States 
for cooperation with the Federal Govern- 
ment in securing vocational education. 

Notes from Utah Extension Field. Be- 
cause of the great pressure of work in the of- 
fice and field in the early part of last summer, 
another assistant, Hortense White, was 
chosen to aid the State Leader in Home 
Economics Work. 

The state of Utah now has nine Home 
Demonstrators, two working through the 
Smith-Lever Bill and seven working through 
the Emergency Bill. Their winter projects 
arc, food selection, emphasizing dairy 
products in the diet, economy and nutrition, 
and renovation of clotliing. Each home 
agent will make out a general program 
which will cover the needs of the various 
communities, such as sanitation, clean milk 
campaigns, increased poultry production, 
and other matters of welfare to the 
community. 

State Normal School, Harrisonburg, 
Va. .^s a contribution to food conservation 
the resources of the campus of forty-nine 
acres are being utilized more fully than ever 
before. The apples of the orchards, the vege- 
tables from the truck patches are being 
given a value in keeping with the need of 
the times; and thirty pigs thrive in a re- 
mote corner with due regard to the rules of 
sanitation. 

The students taking the course in Insti- 
tutional Management made a study of the 
amount of food left on the plates in the din- 
ing room in one week, and reported to the 
others the results of the investigation, mak- 
ing an appeal for "clean plates." 

There are some changes in the faculty 
this session. Miss Hannah B. Corbett has 
charge of the housekeeping department and 
also teaches Institutional Management, and 
Mrs. McMichael, of Peabody College for 
Teachers, is a new instructor in Household 
Arts. 



The Dietitians of Philadelphia and vi- 
cinity have formed a Dietitians Section of the 
Home Economics Association of Philadelphia. 
Prof. Emma Gunther of Teachers College, 
Columbia University, spoke at their first 
meeting. The October meeting was ad- 
dressed by Miss Mary E. Sweeney, Head of 
the Household Economics Department of 
the University of Kentucky, and at that time 
Chairman of the Home Economics Section of 
the United States Food Administration. 

The Section started with about thirty 
members and has now doubled its number. 
The Dietitians have wished for acquaintance 
and mutual helpfulness, and this section is 
proving a most satisfactory way of filling 
this need. 

Home Demonstration Assistants. The 
following staff of experienced women are as- 
sisting in the organization and development of 
home demonstration work, where such serv- 
ice is desired by the states, under the di- 
rection of Miss Florence Ward, OiBce of 
Extension Work North and West. 

Miss .\nna Barrows, a member of the fac- 
ulty at Teachers' College, New York, is too 
well known in every state as a lecturer, 
demonstrator, and writer to need further 
introduction. 

Miss Miriam Birdseye has been for three 
years Assistant Professor of Home Econom- 
ics Extension Work in the New York State 
College of .Agriculture for which she has 
conducted extension schools in foods and 
cookery. During the past summer, she as- 
sisted in preparing conservation literature 
for New York State and in training the 
newly selected women county agents in 
demonstration methods. 

Mrs. Emma Reed Davisson, a member of 
the Extension Staff of the State College of 
Nebraska, has for seven years had charge of 
the organization and promotion of rural 
home economics clubs, out of which have 
grown strong county organizations which 
are now supporting home demonstration 
work. She has thus had successful experi- 
ence in discovering and training community 
leaders, in stimulating serious study of home 



191S] 



NEWS FROM TII£ FIELD 



93 



eco;iomics by groups of farm women, and 
m building up community centers through- 
out the state. 

Miss Margaret Hooker, formerly a mem- 
ber of the faculty of Rochester Mechanics' 
Institute, has made a study of economic and 
social problems of women, both in this coun- 
trj' and in Europe, and has been especially 
interested in the advancement of home and 
community interests. She has recently 
made a study of community kitchens, not 
only as to their value in community canning 
and drying, but as to their wider possibili- 
ties for community service. 

Mrs. Edith Charlton Salisbury resigned 
her position in charge of e.xtension work with 
women. State University of .\rizona, to come 
to Washington. She was one of the first 
women county agents in the northern and 
western states. Her work has included four 
years as Professor of Household Science, 
Manitoba Agricultural College, and four 
years in charge of Home Economics Exten- 
sion Work, Iowa State College. 

Miss Marie Sayles, Assistant Professor of 
Home Economics E.xtension in the J.Iassa- 
chusetts Agricultural College, is on leave 
of absence. She has conducted home-mak- 
ers' schools in rural communities through- 
out Massachusetts, and during the past 
year, in the absence of the regular State 
Leader, she took charge of the work. It 
was during this time that home demonstra- 
tion work was completed in every county in 
the State. This gave Miss Sayles excep- 
tional opportunity to study and help put 
into effect county organization for woman's 
work. 

Dr. Ruby Greene Smith is a specialist in 
city organization with an excellent back- 
ground of social and economic training and 
experience. Since the war emergency she 
has cooperated with the New York State 
College of .\griculture, Extension Staff, in 
organizing and promoting producers' and 
consumers' markets, neighborhood buying 
dubs, and other community enterprises 
which have to do with the handling of food- 
stuffs. 



The Home Economics Association of 
Greater New York . The first of the year's 
meetings was held at the Sage Foundation 
Assembly Hall, on October 23, with a hun- 
dred and seventy present. 

Dinner was served by the New York 
School Lunch Committee. Dr. Andrews 
was Evening Chairman. 

Mrs. Learned Hand, Chairman of the 
Liberty Loan Committee of the Suffrage 
A^sociation, spoke convincingly of the need 
for saving and loaning money for govern- 
ment financing, and of the share which 
women should willingly bear in this war 
activitj'. Dr. Andrews also urged generous 
investment in Liberty Bonds, either for 
personal ownership or as a contribution to 
the Richards Memorial Fund, and about 
thirty dollars was subscribed following the 
meeting, towards the purchase of a bond 
for the Fund. 

Mr. Alexander Thompson, repres-'nting 
the Food Administration spoke on the food 
situation here and in Europe, telling many 
personal incidents of self-denial "over 
there," and urging that we take the situa- 
tion more seriously and be more willing to 
help "keep our national faith" by conscien- 
tiously conrseving food as requested. 

Miss Mary E. Sweeney, of the University 
of Kentucky, and chief of the Home Eco- 
nomics Section of the U. S. Food Adminis- 
tration for September and October, was the 
third speaker of the evening. From her 
close contact with the national and inter- 
national food situation, she made a strong 
appeal to home economics workers to act 
as active leaders in intelligent food con- 
servation effort. 

The next meeting of the .Association was 
held November 20, with dinner served at 
the Washington Irving High School. Dr. 
Henry C. Sherman and Dr. C. E. A. 
Winslow of the Red Cross Commission to 
Russia, and Mr. Bailey B. Burritt of the 
Mayor's Milk Committee spoke. 



94 



THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS 



[February 



The Association of Prison Reform. Miss 
Harriet Boyer of H. Sophie Newcomb 
College was asked to represent the A. H. E. 
A. at the meeting of the Association of 
Prison Reform in New Orleans, November 
19 to 23, 1917, and has sent this report: 

Cruelty and sentimentality are the two 
colossal e\ils in prison management, accord- 
ing to Dr. Dav-id C. Peyton, President of 
the Association. The modern prison should 
be a beehive of industrial actiNdty and should 
be more than self-supporting. Punishment 
has a place in prisons, but it should be logi- 
cal and should flow as a natural conse- 
quence from the transgression. The indus- 
trial training should be correlated with the 
didactic instruction and the prison library. 
The feeling generally amongst wardens was 
decidedly against corporal punishment. 

In discussing the Honor System, the war- 
dens very generally agreed that its success 
depended entirely upon the wardens. Self- 
government as practiced really means gov- 
ernment by a few leaders and is the poorest 
form of government in any institution, re- 
ported one warden. ."Appeal to emotion, he 
said, produces no lasting change in conduct. 

Twenty per cent of all inmates in institu- 
tions are good, 20 per cent are viciously bad, 
and the rest weak-willed and can be carried 
either way by leaders. 

Miss Maude E. Miner, secretary of the 
Probation and Protective Association of 
New York, in talking of social problems 
said, "We are constantly trying to arouse 
the patriotism of the American people and 
to make them realize something of the hor- 
rors of war, but the strongest kind of patriot- 
ism that can be appealed to is that which 
will make the men realize that they are the 
protectors of women's honor as well as of 
women's property." 

The socialization of youth was much dis- 
cussed in the women's association. Crimi- 
nals often develop from unfriendly, queer 
children. Institutions fail to reform those 
with hardened malformations of character. 
Laziness and ill health produce bad charac- 
ters. Habits of industry and health will do 
much to correct wrong tendencies. The 



agencies mentioned as aiding effective pre- 
ventive work were the Children's Aid Society, 
the Day Nurseries, The Widow's Compensa- 
tion Act, the Workmen's Compensation 
Law, the Child Labor Legislation, the Juve- 
nile Court, the Play Ground Movement, the 
Vocational Schools, churches, boys' club 
work, and other juvenile organizarions. 

Improper housing conditions, the unas- 
similated foreigner, the influx of rural popu- 
lation into the cities produce evil tendencies. 
In England juvenile delinquency, it was re- 
ported, has increased 34 per cent and lar- 
ceny over 50 per cent since 1915. Delin- 
quencies of boys of 12 and 13 have increased 
in greater proportions than in any other 
group. The absence of fathers at the front, 
the employment of mothers in various 
branches of war service, the giving up of 
homes or sharing them with others, the low- 
ering of standards of living, and the impaired 
educational system are all responsible for 
this breaking down of child life. 

Mr. Frank McDonald, a warden of the 
Minneapolis Prison, said that when a pris- 
oner came to him he required that the wife 
and children come also, so that he might 
hear both sides of the story. It is his opin- 
ion that women are about 40 per cent re- 
sponsible for troubles. 

Senator E. M. Stafford of New Orleans 
sounded a new note in his recommendation 
that earnings of prisoners be turned over to 
those whom they had wronged. Another 
speaker urged that wages be accumulated 
for a new start in life when prisoners are 
discharged. 

The ne.xt meeting of the Association will 
be held in Oklahoma City. 



The American Red Cross in France has 

sent a call for five dietitians to go to France 
by March 1 for French hospital service. 
The requirements include a speaking knowl- 
edge of French, thorough technical training, 
practical experience in a hospital or some 
large institution that will have given experi- 
ence in handling large quantities of food, and 
in directing the purchase or requisition of sup- 



1918] 



NEWS FROM THE FIELD 



95 



plies, and the regulation of dietaries. No 
one under 26 years of age will be accepted. 

Although the Red Cross has more than 
1000 dietitians registered, many have had 
only teaching experience, few can speak 
French, and many are already assigned to 
base hospital units either for foreign ser\-ice 
or in cantomnent hospitals in this countr)'. 

Applicants should send their requests to 
the American Red Cross, Washington, D. C. 

The United States Food Administration 
is issuing outlines for three courses in Food 
Conservation for Colleges, that are already 
being given in a large number of colleges, 
so that thousands of students are using 
them. 

The lessons are sent out week by week in 
mimeographed form, %vith appropriate refer- 
ences and the freshest available information. 

The first course is called "Food and the 
War." It will give the history and organi- 
zation of the Food .administration, its pur- 
pose and policies, as well as a general sur- 
vey of the world's food problem in its 
governmental, economic, and nutritional 
aspects. It is planned for one hour a week 
for the second semester. 

The second course is "The Fundamentals 
of Food and Xutrition in Relation to the 
War," and is a development of the subject 
matter of course one, with greater emphasis 
on its nutritional aspects, and their relation 
to national and individual food conserva- 
tion. This requires 48 hours of work, and 
has a full bibliography. 

The third is a laboratory course, planned 
only for students taking courses One and 
Two. It is to cover 64 hours, and gives 
the practical application of the principles 



presented in course Two. This course is 
called "The Use and Conservation of 
Foods." 

Notes. Miss Martha Van Rensselaer 
has been appointed by the United States 
Food .Administration as Director of Home 
Economics in New York State outside of 
New York City, and Mrs. Mary Schwartz 
Rose to the same position for the City. 

At the recent annual meeting in Washing- 
ton of the .\merican Public Health .Associa- 
tion Professor Marion Talbot, of the De- 
partment of Household .Administration at 
the University of Chicago, presented as 
chairman of the committee on Retail Dis- 
tribution and Marketing a report to the 
Food and Drugs section and also read a paper 
on "Housekeeping and the Public Health" 
before the Sociological section. 

Miss Helen Kirme, Professor of Household 
Education in Teachers College, Columbia 
University, died December 29, 1917, in New 
York City, after an illness of only five days. 
The funeral services were held in St. James' 
Chapel, at the Cathedral of St. John the 
Divine, New York, on New Year's Day, 
and were in charge of Bishop Greer and 
Chaplain Kno.'c of Columbia University. 

.\n account of Professor Kirme's life and 
her services to home economics will be given 
in a later issue of the Journai.. 

The National Society for the Promotion 
of Industrial Education will meet in Phila- 
delphia, February 21-23, 1918. 

The Religious Education Association will 
meet at Atlantic City, March 4 to 6, 1918. 



ANNUAL MEETING OF THE AMERICAN HOME ECONOMICS ASSOCI.ATION 

AT ATLANTIC CITY MARCH 1 AND 2, IN CONNECTION WITH 

THE DIVISION OF SUPERINTENDENCE, N. E. A. 

Tentative Program 

Friday, March I, 9 a.m. 
President's Address. 
Appointment of Nominating Committee. 



Round Table Discussion. 
Public. 



Topic, What and How to Teach Food Values to the General 



96 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [February 

Dr. Ruth Wheeler, University of Illinois, presiding. 
Dr. E. V. McCoUum, Johns Hopkins University. 

Miss Caroline L. Hunt, States Relations Service, Office of Home Economics. 
Miss Elizabeth Sprague, University of Kansas and U. S. Food Administration. 
Miss Mary E. Creswell, States Relations Service, Office of Extension Work, South. 
Dr. C. F. Langworthy, States Relations Service, Office of Home Economics. 
Dr. Alice Blood, Simmons College. 

Miss Florence E. Ward, States Relations Service, Office of Extension Work, North and 
West. 

2 p.m. 
General Session N. E. A. 

Miss Sarah Louise Arnold, Simmons College and U. S. Food Administration. 

7.30 p.m. 

Round Table Discussion. Topic, The Smith-Hughes BiU: Its Effect on Home Economics. 
Miss Josephine Berry, Federal Board of Vocational Education. 
Miss Anna Richardson, Federal Board of Vocational Education. 
Conservation of Clothing. 

Suggestions of Textile Committee. Chairman, Mis; Grace G. Denny, University of 
Washington. 

Saturday, March 2, 9 a.m. 

Round Table Discussion. Topic, Home Economics in the Public Schools under War Con- 
ditions. 
Miss Carrie Lyford, Bureau of Education, presiding. 
Miss Grace Schermerhorn, Supervisor of Domestic Science, N. Y. C. 
Miss Cora Harris, Supervisor of Home Economics, Shelby Co., Tenn. 
Miss Jenny H. Snow, Supervisor of Household Arts, Chicago Public Schools. 
Miss Emma Jacobs, Supervisor of Domestic Science, Washington. 
Miss Alice Johnson, Supervisor of Domestic Science, Philadelphia. 

2 p.m. 
Business Session 

Report of Committees 

Report of Treasurer 

Report of Nominating Committee 

3 p.m. 

Home Economics and Civilian Relief Work in the United States. 

Mr. W. Frank Persons, Director of the Civilian Relief of the Red Cross. 

SPECIAL MEETINGS 

Council of the .\merican Home Economics .Association. Thursday evening at 7.30 at The 

Traymore. 
Richards Memorial Fund Trustees. Saturday morning at 11 at The Traymore. 

.\11 meetings will be held in the Library Room of the Traymore Hotel. 

A list of hotels may be obtained from the Secretary of the National Education Associa- 
tion, Washington, D. C. The N. E. A. has no one place as headquarters. The Traymore 
will be headquarters for the A. H. E. A. 



\0L. X, No. 3 INIarch, 1918 

THE 

Journal of Home Economics 

For those interested in Honiemaking, Institution Management, 
and Educational Work in Home Economics 

Mrs.' Alice P. Norton, Editor Ketur.\h E. B-\ldwin, Managing Editor 

Editorial Board 
Mas/ Mary H. Abel Axxa Barrows C. F. Laxgwortby Isabel Ely Lord K-^tharime Bldnt 

Ex-Oficio .Vemfirri— Catharixe J. ILacKay, President American Home Economics Association 
Emm.^ H. Gun'ther, Chairman Institution Economics Section 
Ruth Wheeler, Chairman Science Section 
Ne-AXE S. Knowles, Chairman Extension Education Section 

Collaborators— The Officers, Members of the Council, and Advisors 



CONTENTS 

Dietary Study at Vassar College Annie Louise MacLeod and Mary A. Griggs 97 

The 'Work of the Dtetitiax in the Canadian Military Hospit.\ls . . . Violet M. Ryley 108 

The Project ix Home Economics Teaching W. W. Charters 114 

Conservation antj Club Work Lucile Wheeler 120 

Patriotism .vnd Food 123 

Fob the Houemaker 

What We Sh-^ll Wear This Year antd Xext Amy L. Rolfe 125 

Help the Housewife Lilliati Russell 129 

Serving Meals Without Wheat 131 

Doing My Level Best Clarence Du Bose 133 

Editorhl 135 

Comment and Discussion 137 

Books and Literature 139 

Bibliography of Home Economics 1-12 

News from the Field 145 



The Journal of Homx Economics is published monthly by the American Home Economics .\s3ociat'on. 

$2.00 A YEAR. FOREIGN $2.33. CANADIAN $2.20. SINGLE COPIES 23 CENTS 

HOW TO REMIT. Remittances should be sent bv Draft oi New York, Express Order or Postal Money Order, pay- 
able to the .American Home Economics AssDciation. Currency, unless rallied in a regLstered letter, is at the sender's risk. 

CH.AXGE IN ADDRESS. Notice of change in address should be seat Two Weeks before the date of issue on which 
thechanseis to take effect. The subscriber's Old Address should be clearly indicated in addition to the. Vew .\ddress. 

AMERICAN HOME ECONOMICS ASSOCIATION 1211 Cwhedral St., B.^ltimore, Md. 

Entered as second class matter at the Baltimore Post OfHce 

TheJodbnalof Home Eco.-Joincs is on sale at John Wanamaker's, Philadelphia; The Old Corner Book .Store, Boston; 

.\. C. McClurg's. Chicago; Baltimore News Company, Baltimore; Woodward and Lothrop, Washington 



TWO LETTERS 

To the Departments of Home Economies in the Colleges and Universities: 

The United States Food Administration recognizes the excellent work that 
is being done by the departments of Home Economics in the colleges and 
universities. Thousands of young women are being prepared to grapple with 
the problems concerned with food and the home. Graduates of these depart- 
ments will find themselves called to places of usefulness far surpassing in 
number and responsibility anything heretofore thought possible. Issues that 
demand the rarest talent and the highest scientific training await their atten- 
tion. This splendid army of specially trained young women is counted on 
by the Food Administration to give willing and effective service. 

Faithfully yours, 

Herbert Hoover. 

To the Women in the Graduating Classes of the Colleges and Universities: 

The United States Food Administration calls you to its service. Our need 
is so great that we appeal to you to prepare yourselves as best you can, and 
to enlist for the great work that must be done. 

There will be diversity of tasks and therefore diversity of talent and train- 
ing can be used. All our questions now center in food; its production, its 
distribution, its use, its conservation. The more you know about these 
things the more valuable you will be, and the greater will be your service to 
humanity. 

If you have not already done so, we urge you to pursue studies dealing 
especially with food, but these should be reinforced by courses in chemistry, 
physiology and economics. It will be well, too, if you have acquired the arts 
of public presentation of your knowledge to the people who so much need it. 

Fortunately most of our educational institutions now offer courses which 
give the necessary training for this work, but to the others an appeal is being 
sent to provide such instruction wherever it is possible. 

More detailed suggestions and directions will be published soon. Today 
your country asks you to resolve to do what you can in this the hour of ex- 
treme peril to the democratic peoples of the w-orld. 

Faithfully yours, 

Herbert Hoover. 



THE 

Journal of Home Economics 

Vol. X MARCH, 1918 No. 3 

DIETARY STUDY AT VASSAR COLLEGE 

ANNIE LOUISE MACLEOD AND MARY A. GRIGGS 

In February, 1917, a dietary study was made at Vassar College with 
the object of obtaining accurate data as to the amount, kind, and quality 
of the food consumed by Vassar students, and its nutritive value as 
compared with the theoretical requirements of active girls of the age of 
these students. 

Method of Study. One hall, Davison, was selected as typical, since 
similar conditions prevail throughout the College. The study began at 
noon, February 8, and ended with breakfast, February 22. The group 
under obser\'ation numbered 115, of whom 7 were faculty, 17 servants 
(including 2 men), and 91 were students whose average age wa 19.4 
years, height 5 feet, 4 inches, and weight 123.9 pounds. During the first 
week 2030 meals were served, and during the second 1897, making a total 
of 3927. 

A careful inventory was taken of all supplies on hand at the beginning 
and at the end of the experimental period, and all food materials brought 
to the hall during this period were weighed. In the case of foods such 
as bread, cake, puddings, which were cooked in the college bake-shop 
and sent to the hall ready to serve, the raw materials used in their manu- 
facture were weighed in the bake-shop, thus obviating the necessity for 
an infinitude of analyses. In calculating the food values, the figures 
given for the average composition of American foods in 0. E. S. Bulletin 
28 of the Department of Agriculture were used wherever possible. 
Where average values were not obtainable special analyses were made. 

The inedible waste, or refuse, consisting of bones, seeds, parings, was 
collected and weighed dai y. With this there was inevitably some edible 

97 



98 THE JOURNAL or HOME ECONOMICS [March 

material, the amount depending partly on the care employed in sep- 
arating the refuse from the food materials. The edible waste included 
the scraps from the plates and all food left over in such a condition that 
it could not be utilized again. This was weighed, run through a meat 
chopper, and thoroughly mixed, a 1 per cent sample taken for analysis, 
and a few drops of formalin added to prevent decomposition. At the 
end of each week all the material collected was dried, mixed, and ana- 
lyzed. The total amount of waste, edible and inedible, was subtracted 
from the amount of food used, to give the amount actually consumed. 

Pood. The food was plain but appetising, and showed considerable 
variation. The meals were well balanced, and particularly successful 
in the avoidance of the fixed routine which makes so many institutional 
diets unbearably monotonous. The raw materials used were of excel- 
lent quahty, and, in general, well cooked. The following is a typical 
day's menu. 

Breakfast 

Apple sauce 

Ralston Puiled rice Cream 

Omelet Hard and Sift boiled eggs 

Rolls Bread Butter 

Coffee Chocolate Milk 

Luncheon 

Appledore soup Crackers 

Hamburg steak Brown sauce 

Potatoes au gratin Tomatoes 

Graham and white bread Cinnamon biscuit Butter 

Chocolate Tea Milk 

Dinner 

Duchess soup Crackers 

Boiled lamb Caper sauce 

Potato puff Parsnips Banana fritters 

Dinner bread Butter 

Chocolate Bavarian cream 

Waste. The total waste represented 26 per cent of the food pur- 
chased, 10.6 per cent of the waste being edible and 15.6 per cent inedible 
material. 

It was impossible to compare our results with those of other institu- 
tions since in the majority of cases where a dietary stud)' has been made 
either tlie waste has not been separated into edible and inedible or the 
investigator has neglected to define his terms precisely. 



TABLEl 
Weights of food and mUrienti consumed 





AMororr 

PCItCHASED 


TOTAL 
COST 


TOTAL NOTKTENT AND ENEBOY VALUE 


KIND or roOD 


Protein 


Fat 


Carbohy- 
drate 


Fuel ralue 


Animal food 


pounds 

40.5 

40.0 
61.0 
12.0 
16.0 
27.25 
14.0 
48.5 
114.5 
240.0 
25.0 

75.75 
43.5 
2.5 
4.5 
14.0 
34.0 
0.18 
9.5 
14.0 

9.0 
29.0 

6.25 
31.5 
25.75 
37.5 
30.25 
58.0 


dollars 

8.10 
71.55 

68.50 
5.25 
39.70 

0.12 
1.65 
4.90 

16.58 

15.61 


grams 

1,745.0 

3,792.0 

4,925.0 

969.0 

341.0 

2,299.0 

260.0 

2,420.0 

7,479.0 

14,914.0 

2,506.0 

4,948.0 

2,881.0 

229.0 

84.0 

895.0 

2,452.0 

78.0 

1,282.7 

167.4 

539.3 

102.1 

1,928.9 

1,401.6 

3,284.9 

891.9 

5,103.9 


grams 

10,912.0 

1,923.0 
4,704.0 
909.0 
5,937.0 
2,460.0 
5,213.0 
4,224.0 
10,387.0 
13,390.0 
2,336.0 

8,109.0 
4,025.0 

32.0 
1,676.0 
1,315.0 
2,097.0 
0.1 
4,309.2 

196.9 

563.3 
907.6 
2,548.7 
2,700.6 
3,-580.6 
2,211.3 
7,766.1 
6,340.2 


grams 
158.8 


calories 

105,192.4 


Beef: 

Hamburg steak 

Steak 


32,478.1 
62,036.3 




12,056.6 


Suet 


54,797.4 


Flank 


31,334.6 


Fat 


47,962.2 


Trimmings 

Roast beef 

Chicken 


47,696.0 
123,402.2 
180,170.3 


Ham 


31,048.4 


Lamb: 


92,772.2 


Breast and neck.. . 
Liver and lungs . . . 
Fat 


47,751.3 
1,202.6 
15,416.1 


Racks 


l.S,412.1 




28,685.0 




311.7 




38,782.8 




7,538.1 


Pork: 
Head 


5,739.3 


Feet 


10,325.6 


Fat 


23,346.7 




41,021.0 


Shoulders 


36,931.8 




32,761.3 


Belly 


73,462.5 




77,477.4 






Unused; 

Beef, cooked 

Lamb, cooked 

Soup stock 

Fat sold 

Total unused 


6.5 

3.5 

11.0 

30.0 

51.0 


1.95 
0.85 
0.10 
1.20 
4.10 


772.4 
312.8 
289.4 

1,374.6 


1,028.9 

201.7 

74.9 

13,608.0 

14,913.5 




12,349.7 

3,066.5 

1,831.7 

122,472.0 

139,719.9 


Total meat 

Fish: 

Clams 


1,012.9 

19.9 
23.25 


227.89 

2.25 
2.79 


66,476.6 

189.0 
2,921.2 


96,761.3 

9.0 
31.6 


158.8 
126.0 


1,137,392.1 
1,341.0 


Codf.sh 


11,969.2 



TABLE I— Continued 





PURCHASED 


TOTAL 


TOTAL NOTiUENT 


AND ENERGY VALUE 




Protein 


Fat 


Carbohy- 
drate 


Fuel value 


Fish — Continued 
Finnan haddie .... 


pounds 

23.0 
52.0 
24.25 
2.0 
144.40 

123.0 

6 

266.9 

106.25 

1.5 

1,508.7 

2,012.35 

3,169.7 

2.0 
81.5 

228.75 
1.7 
3.0 
0.75 
15.25 

130.25 
2.0 
5.5 
4.87 
1.56 

4.37 
2.87 
7.75 
0.12 

105.0 
2.5 
3.0 
0.93 
3.93 
4.12 
0.37 
4.5 

616.59 


dollars 

6.00 
3.47 
4.80 
0.32 
19.63 

50.43 
1.56 

26.28 

34.00 
0.48 

40.78 

153.53 
401.05 

0.11 
4.08 
11.44 
0.22 
0.06 
0.04 
2.10 
5.86 
0.17 
0.70 
0.50 
0.18 

0.30 
0.16 
0.41 
0.05 

10.50 
0.33 
0.32 
0.18 
0.34 
0.32 
0.18 
0.60 

39.15 


grams 

1,648.4 

1,981.3 

659.9 

176.9 

7,576.7 

557.9 

783.9 

3,027.2 

5,735.2 

83.6 

22,583.7 

32,771.5 

106,824.8 

77.1 
3,290.1 
9,442.3 

42.2 
125.2 

781.7 

6,617.1 

61.7 

287.4 

183.8 

87.3 

234.6 

218.1 

281.2 

45.4 

6,619.9 

137.5 

5.4 

46.2 

196.8 

208.0 

17.9 

214.7 

29,221.6 


grams 
10.4 

47.2 
143.0 

68.0 
309.2 

47,424.1 

977.2 

19,373.8 

4,482 . 1 

1.4 

21,899.4 

94,158.0 

191,228.5 

10.0 

665.4 

1,660.2 

11.5 

25.9 

726.3 
590.8 
8.2 
25.0 
13.3 
9.9 

9.9 

95.4 

10.5 

1.7 

2,000.4 

4.5 

1.4 

6.2 

25.0 

31.9 

2.4 

28.6 

5,964.4 


grams 

362.9 
488.9 

8.2 
5,448.9 

34,217.8 
39,674.9 
40,322.6 

705.8 

19,260.5 

55,304.6 

621.1 

1,026.0 

306.2 

4,876.8 

44,252.0 

714.0 

1,974.2 

1,749.9 

573.0 

1,497.0 

864.8 
2,777.2 

448.7 
28,529.2 

866.8 
1,197.5 

342.9 
1,365.1 
1,415.2 

132.7 

1,592.9 

172,394.1 


calories 

6,687.2 
8,350.0 




5,378.2 




1,319.6 


Total fish 

Dairy products 
Butter 


35,045.2 
429,048 . 5 




11,963.2 




208,268.6 




63,279.7 


Egg whites 

Milk 


347.0 
424,300.6 


Total dairy prod- 


1,137,207.6 


Total animal 

food 

Vegetable food 
Cereals: 


2,309,644.9 
3,221.6 


Bread, graham .... 

Bread, white 

Cornflakes 


96,191.0 

273,929.4 

2,756.7 

4,837.9 


Cornstarch 

Crackei<5, oyster. . . 

Flour, wheat 

Flour, rye 

Grapenuts 

Hominy grits 


1,224.8 
29,170.7 
208,793.6 
3,176.6 
9,271.4 
7,854.5 
2,730.3 


Malt Breakfast 


7,015.5 


Quaker Oats 

Rice 


5,190.2 

12,328.1 


Rice, pulTed 

Rolls, wheat 

Sphaghetti 


1,991.7 

158,600.0 

4,057.7 

4,824.2 


Triscuit 


1,612.2 


Cream of wheat . . . 

Wheat food 

Wheat, puffed 

Wheat, shredded . . 
Total cereal food 


6,472.6 

6,779.9 

624.0 

7,487.8 

860,142.4 



TABLE I — Continued 





AMOCNT 
PUKCE.4SE1> 


TOT.4L 
COST 


TOTAL NOTEIENT AND ENERGY VALUE 




Protein 


Fat 


Carbohy- 
drate 


Fuel value 


Vegetables: 

Black beans, drj-... 

Beets, cooked 

Beets, raw 


pounds 
2.75 

7.25 

42.5 

16.0 

12.25 

14.25 

30.0 

20,25 

49.5 

53.75 

53.00 

640.5 

7.5 

20.2 

44.0 

1,013.7 

91.5 
2.0 
107.5 
13.0 
55.0 
16.25 
10.5 
118.5 
7.3 
1.5 
9.25 
14.25 
5.0 

39.0 
490.55 

1.0 
OS 
2.5 
4.25 
3.5 
5.0 
18.0 
11.6 


dollars 

0.17 
1.25 
0.31 
0.38 
0.34 
1.77 
3.12 
4.23 
3.47 
2.13 
4.08 

28.82 
0.38 
3.05 
0.66 

53.85 

0.92 
0.05 
6.67 
1.05 
3.85 
1.84 
0.70 
3.36 
2.24 
0.11 
1.04 
1.50 
0.24 

4.25 
27.82 

0.60 
0.12 
0.18 
1.10 
0.67 
0.73 
1.66 
0.35 


grams 

293.9 

75.6 

250.6 

101.6 

50.0 

58.2 

381.7 

110.2 

314.3 

317.0 

867.0 

5,229.6 

30.6 

109.9 

179.6 

8,369.8 

124.5 

1.8 

390.1 

35.4 

299.4 

5.9 

33.4 

322.5 

19.9 

4.8 

21.0 

116.4 

59.0 

123.8 
1,557.9 

6.0 

3.4 

106.6 

248.7 

343.0 

126.3 


gramst 

23.5 
3.3 
19.3 
14.5 
11.1 
6.5 

163.6 
27.6 
67.4 
97.5 
48.2 

290.5 
34.0 
18.3 

20.0 

845.3 

124.5 

7.3 

195.0 

35.4 

23.9 

53.8 

3.32 

0.7 

74.8 

548.6 

15.7 
0.5 

87.3 
938.9 
458.9 


grams 

778.6 

243.4 

1,484.4 

348.4 

411.2 

168.1 

2,590.1 

266.4 

1,998.3 

2,633.1 

2,360.1 

42,708.1 

136.1 

366.3 

1,137.6 

57,630.2 

10,376.0 

337.4 

6,973.0 

754.8 

2,370.1 

415.7 

281.5 

4,568.9 

2,807.9 

73.4 

2,521.8 

4,020.6 

1,726.0 

4,245.6 
35,579.1 

4.9 

27.9 

793.8 

584.2 

598.7 

1,998.1 

5,829.7 

3,646.6 


calorics 

4,501.5 
1,305.7 
7,113.7 
1,930.5 
1,944.7 
963 7 




Celery 


Com, canned 


13,359.6 
1 754 8 




9 857 




n,()T1.9 

13,342.2 

194 365 3 


Peas, canned 




972 8 


Tomatoes, canned . 


2,069.5 

5,448.8 

271,607.7 

19,548.1 
1,422.5 

31,207.4 
3,479.4 

10,678.0 
1,686.4 
1 474 7 


Total vegetables. 

Fruit: 


Apple sauce 


Blueberries 

Grapefruit 

Currant jelly 




20,049.8 
11,610.0 
319.1 
10,171.2 
16,548.0 
7,813.2 

17,477.6 

153,485.4 

184.9 
129 7 


Orange marmalade. 
Peaches, canned. . . 
Plums, preserved . . 




Straiwberrics, 


Totalfruit 

Miscellaneous: 
Almond paste 


Chili sauce 

Chocolate 


4,387.3 
11,781.7 
7,896.9 
7,992.4 
23,318.8 
15,091.6 




Maple syrup 





TABLE I— Concluded 



KIND OP FOOD 



Miscellaneous — Con- 
tinued 
English walnutg. . . 

Olives 

Olive oil 

Pickles 

Baked beans 

Granulated sugar. . 
Powdered sugar . . . 
Total miscellan- 
eous 

Total vege- 
table food . . 

Total, all foods 

Total per person per 

day' 

Total edible waste 

Total inedible waste. . . 

Total food eaten 

Total food eaten per 
person per day 



AMOUNT 


TOTAL 


PDKCHASED 


COST 


founds 


dollars 


0.5 


0.21 


18.5 


1.70 


5.75 


1.35 


15.5 


2.09 


27.5 


2.33 


158.0 


12.25 


1.0 


0.08 


273.1 


29.58 


2,391.9 


150.4 


5,561.6 


551.45 


4.2 


0.42 


588.5 




868.5 




4,104.6 




3.1 





TOTAL NTTTRIENT AND ENERGY VALUE 



37.7 
66.4 



34,9 
1,010.4 



1,983.1 

41,132.4 
147,957.2 

113.0 

17,548.4 

130,408.8 
99.6 



143.9 

1,676.3 

2,608.2 

21.0 

848.2 



6,799.4 

14,157.7 
205,386.2 

156.9 
23,291.5 

182,094.7 

139.1 



36.5 
705.6 

188.6 

2,894.0 

71,668.8 

453.6 

89,431.0 

355,034.4 
395,357.0 

302.0 
52,545.6 

342,811.4 

261.8 



1,591.9 
18,179.2 
23,473.8 

1,083.0 

23,251.4 

286,675.2 

1,814.4 

426,852.2 

1,712,087.7 
4,021,733.0 

3,072.0 



3,531,733.0 
2,698.0 



• Calculated from the total number of meals served, 3927. 

TABLE 2 
Amount of waste 





INEDIBLE 


EDIBLE 


TOTAl 


First week 


pounds 

352.5 
516.0 
868.5 


founds 

247.5 
341.0 
588.5 


600 




857 


Total 


1457 







102 



TABLE 3 
Analysis of edible waste 





PaOTEIK 


CARBOHYDRATE 


FAT 




per cent 

6.4 
6.7 
6.55 


per cent 

19.8 
19.6 
19.7 


per cent 

10.0 




7.8 




8.9 







1918] DIET.AJIY STUDY AT VASSAR COLLEGE 103 

The average amount of inedible material in all common American 
foods is given in O. E. S. Bulletin 28 of the Department of Agriculture, 
and the theoretical amount as calculated from these figures would be 
10.1 per cent, instead of the 15.6 per cent of our study. Strict agi-ee- 
ment with the theoretical could hardly be expected however, as the 
amount of water added in the refuse may sometimes be very consid- 
erable. In order to ascertain more definitely in the case of one food how 
our inedible waste corresponded with the rather generous margin al- 
lowed in the Bulletin we had the potato parings weighed separately dur- 
ing one week and the percentage waste calculated. The average was 
found to be 27.5 per cent. A similar study at Lake Erie College' showed 
an average waste of 36.1 per cent, while the figures given in the Bulletin 
for refuse from potatoes is 20 per cent. 

Fuel Value. According to the most moderate estimates the nutritive 
requirements of an adult person lying asleep amount to 0.5 calories per 
pound of body weight per hour; sitting quietly,or with only slight move- 
ments, 0.6 calories per pound per hour ; standing, 0.75 calories; walldng 
at a moderate pace on level ground, 1 calorie; at moderate exercise, 1.25 
calories; and at rather severe muscular work 1.75 calories. So we would 
calculate that a girl such as our average represents, who slept eight hours, 
sat studying, at lectures, and chatting eleven hours, walked or stood 
four hours, and exercised actively one hour, would require a little under 
2000 calories per day. We would probably be safe in saying that their 
requirements vary from 1900 to 2200 calories per day according to age, 
size, and acti\ity. The faculty would come within the same range, the 
servants a little higher, but so Httle that their small number would not 
appreciablj' affect the general average.^ 

The food consumption as shown by our results (see table) amounted 
to 2698 calories per person per day. A similar, or even larger excess 
over the theoretical requirements has been observed in many cases, nota- 
bly in Gephart's study of St. Paul's School, Concord, where the food 
consumption of the boys was found to be equal to the calculated re- 
quirements of men engaged in the most severe muscular labor, such as 
lumbermen or stevedores. 

The following tabic compares the Vassar results with those obtained 
in various other studies. It may safely be assumed that the require- 

« O. E. S. Bui. No. 91, p. 30. U. S. Dept. of Agr. 
• Rose, Feeding the Family. Pp. 47 ff. 



104 



THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS 



[March 



ments of the students at the four women's colleges are about the same 
as those of our own students. For comparison we have included the av- 
erages of studies made of men students, of the families of professional 
men, and of the boys of St. Paul's School. It will be noted that our 
total calorific value falls fairly well within the average, but the propor- 
tion of fuel value obtained from protein food is high, and that from 
carbohydrate food correspondingly low. 

TABLE 4 
Pud value of food consumed per person per day as determined by various nutrition investigations 



FAT 


CAEBO- 


TOTAL 


atories 


cahries 


calories 


1252 


1048 


2<'.98 


1037 


1283 


2592 


1322 


1523 


3277 


893 


1440 


2589 


1152 


1056 


2544 


1058 


1488 


2882 


900 


1354 


2587 


1685 


2075 


4377 



PUEL 
OBTAINED 

FROU 
PROTEUr 



Women students 

Vassar College 

Lake Erie College* 

Chicago University' (women's dormitories) 

North Dakota Agricultural College* 

Wesleyan' 

Average of 16 men* students clubs 

Average of 14 families' of professional men 
Average of boys of'" St. Paul's School. . . . 



398 
272 
432 
256 
336 
336 
333 
617 



per cent 

14.8 
10.5 
13.2 
9.9 
13.2 
11.7 
12.9 
14.1 



These results, with the exception of those obtained at St. Paul's 
School, do not take into consideration the amount of food eaten between 
meals or outside of the College dining hall, a factor which must be recog- 
nized if the results are to be used in drawing conclusions as to the die- 
tary habits of the individuals under observation. It is almost impossi- 
ble, however, to get data of even approximate accuracy on this point 
under ordinary conditions. At St. Paul's School the matter was simpli- 
fied by the fact that practically the only source of supply was a tuck 
shop under school management, but the college girl has access to in- 
numerable tea-houses, and tuck shops, and usually patronizes them all 
indiscriminately. In order to get a rough estimate of what this amounts 



< Office of E.xpt. Sta., Bui. No. 91, U. S. Dept. of Agr., 1900. 
' Univ. of Chicago publication, Food as a Factor in Student Life. 
1894. 

« O. E. S. Bui. No. 91. U. S. Dept. of Agr., 1895. 
' Connecticut Storrs Sta. Rpt., 1894. 

8 O. E. S. Bui., No. 91., p. 34. U. S. Dept. of Agr., 1893-97. 
' Ibid. 
" Rector's Rpt., St. Paul's Scliool, Concord, 1916. 



Richards and Talbot, 



1918] DIETARY STXJDY AT VASSAR COLLEGE 105 

to we asked the Davison students to keep a daily record of all that they 
ate outside the dining room during the experhnental period. Their 
lists make rather entertaining reading, but are difficult to standardize. 
We found that an average of 65 per cent supplement their college meals 
by more or less additional food, 10 per cent took theii" three meals in the 
dining-room and had nothing outside, while the remaining 25 per cent, 
a surprisingly large number, either missed a meal altogether or took it 
off campus. 

As might be expected, there is the greatest difference between the 
habits of different individuals. They vary from the girl who ate one 
orange, but explained that she had had neither lunch nor dinner, to two 
young people who in one day consumed respectively in addition to 
their regular meals "one sandwich, four pieces of cake, a handful of 
popcorn, a one pound box of popcorn, two handfuls of salted nuts, two 
pieces of candy," and "three large pieces of candy, sixteen small 
pieces of candy, ten cakes, one cup of chocolate with whipped cream." 
The last item, we are told, was taken simply for the sake of being so- 
ciable. A young lady who had played basket-ball for an hour and 
walked for an hour found it necessary to sustain life in between whiles 
with "Half a grape-fruit, quarter of a pound of chocolate marshmallows, 
five hard candies (eaten from politeness), one box of Smith's cough- 
drops, one package of licorice life-savers, a tuna-fish sandwich, two pieces 
of fudge, and a piece of chocolate cake (for poUteness)." One girl re- 
ported " Fifteen pieces of chocolate candy, one apple, one piece of white 
cake, and two marshmallow pecan cakes, eaten because Lent begins to- 
night" but the next day she had "one hot dog, four marshmallow pecan 
cakes, and half a de\il sandwich," so she did not suffer greatly from her 
Lenten abstemiousness. Habit seems to account for more than any 
general nutritive requirement, as some few girls were found who 
habitually ate little or nothing between meals, although living as active 
a life and apparently as healthy as their neighbors who habitually ate 
much. Of course both classes were given to spasmodic orgies. 

Their supplementary food was usually sugar in some form, candies, 
cakes, or ice-cream. It is a question whether this is due simply to the 
taste for sweets which is instinctive in all young people or is in response 
to a physiological need. We have already noted that the amount of 
carbohydrate food supplied to our girls is rather low. A few girls re- 
ported that they "feel hungry for candy after meals, especially after 
lunch." Another reports having added jam to the regular college din- 



106 



THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS 



[March 



ner on one occasion. On the other hand one ate a half-pound of candy 
"because it was lying round and had to be eaten!" This seems to be 
a not infrequent reason for eating food of various kinds. Many ate 
"for sociability," many because they were hungry, a few because they 
disliked certain of the college meals, such as the fish luncheon on Fridays. 

It is impossible to give even a rough estimate of the average fuel 
value of this supplementary food on account of the great variation. 
That it is not inconsiderable will be evident when we note that one piece 
of fudge of the usual size gives 100 calories, one sundae some 300 calor- 
ies or more, and one piece of cake from 200 to 300 calories. The girls 
above referred to must have averaged well over 1500 calories apiece in 
addition to that which they obtained at their regular meals, but only 
one of them reported any exercise on that day beyond walking to classes. 

Cost. The cost per meal of food alone was found to average $0.14, 
the cost of food, preparation, and service, $0,184. These figures cannot 
fairly be compared with those obtained in the majority of other cases 
on account of the great increase in the cost of living since 1914. 

Practically all of the milk and vegetables used at the college are pro- 
duced on the college farm. These are purchased from the farm by the 
housekeeping department and paid for at current wholesale rates. 

TABLE S 
Comparison of relaihe exptndilure for different foods at Vassar College and at otiier I nstiPntitns'^ 





8 

■< O 

> 






1 




i| 
> * 




per cent 

7.1 

6.3 
9.1 
0.3 
7.4 
4.7 

27.8 
3.6 

41.3 
9.8 
5.0 
5.4 


per cent 
7.4 

2.5 

17.8 
0.9 
8.4 
0.6 

30.2 
1.8 

32.0 
7.8 

14.9 
5.9 


per cent 

12.0 

3.0 
12.8 

0.3 
21.1 

4.7 
32.9 

2.5 
30.3 

7.1 

9.4 

5.8 


per cent 

8.7 

6.1 
14.5 
0.3 
7.1 

28.0 

35.1 
5.2 
10.2 
12.8 


fer cent 

9.3 

3.9 
15.0 

0.5 

9.2 

1.8 
30.4 

1.4 
32.5 

6.7 
11.5 

8.2 


percent 

11.5 


Dairy products: 


4.8 


Butter 


11.8 


Cheese 


0.4 


Milk 


11.3 




0.2 


Total 


28.5 


Fish 


4.0 


Meat 


29.9 




10.0 


Fruit. . : 


7.6 




8.S 







" Loc cit. 



1918] 



DIETARY STUDY AT VASS.AJl COLLEGE 



107 



Percentage expenditure for nutrients, mineral matter, and waste in the staple foods used during 

the study 



Sugar 

Cereals 

Dair>' products 

Fish 

Meat 

Vegetables .... 
Fruit 



NUTRIENTS 



per cent 

100.0 
75.0 
41.0 
14.0 
36.0 
14.0 
18.2 



2.0 
27.0 
19.0 
14.0 

28.7 



per ceni 

25.0 
57.0 
59.0 
46.0 
72.0 
53.1 



The relative amounts spent for certain staples are shown in table 5. 

From the data in table 6 it is possible to compare the relative economy 
of the various articles of food. In making this calculation we have used 
the figures for percentage composition given in Bulletin 28. 

"Fruit" in the above table refers to the common winter fruits, apples, 
oranges, lemons, grape-fruit, bananas, prunes, and raisins. It does not 
include canned fruits, jams, jellies, etc., which would give a higher value 
for nutrients on account of the added sugar present. 

It is to be remembered that this table does not distinguish between 
fat, protein, and carbohydrate as source of nutriment, that it practically 
omits consideration of the food value of mineral matter, and that in 
order to insure a properly balanced diet it is often necessary to use the 
higher priced foods instead of those which might appear more economical. 

Summary 

Total number of meals 3,927 

Total weight of food used 5,561 .6 pounds 

Total fuel value of food consumed 3,531,733.1 calories 

Total fuel value of food per meal 899. calories 

Total fuel value per person per day 2,698. calories 

Total fuel value per person per day from protein 398. calories 

Total fuel value per person per day from carbohydrate 1,048. calories 

Total fuel value per person per day from fat 1,252. calories 

Per cent of total fuel value obtained from protein 14. 7 per cent 

Total inedible waste 868.5 pounds 

Total edible waste 588.5 pounds 

Total waste 1,457.0 pounds 

Total waste per meal 0.36 pounds 

Total protein in edible waste 38 . 4 pounds 

Total fat in edible waste 51.1 pounds 

Total carbohydrate in edible waste 115.2 pounds 

Total cost of food 551 .45 

Cost of preparation and service 174.16 

Cost per meal of food alone 0. 14 

Cost per meal of food, preparation, and service 0. 184 



108 THE joxjRNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [March 

THE WORK OF THE DIETITIAN IN THE CANADMN 
MILITARY HOSPITALS 

VIOLET M. RYLEY 

General Organizing Dietitian, Military Hospitals Commission 

I have been asked to explain the work of a dietitian in the Canadian 
MiHtary Hospitals, and to allow the directions I have placed in the 
hands of each dietitian to be published. It is with much pleasure that 
I comply, hoping that in some way I may be of service in assisting the 
American dietitians to prepare for the day when they will have to face 
our problem in caring for their returned wounded soldiers. 

The Military Hospitals Commission has at the present time over 
fifty military hospitals and convalescent homes, and several others un- 
der construction. These vary in size all the way from the small tuber- 
culosis sanitorium of 50 to 75 beds to the large convalescent hospital of 
1500 to 1600 beds. Possibly the most interesting point in all Canada 
for a dietitian is the big Discharge Depot at Quebec, where sometimes 
2000 men are fed three times a day. A dietitian, with one assistant 
and two pupil dietitians, is in charge of all the food served to this large 
number. In 1918 there will be accommodations for between 18,000 and 
20,000 convalescent soldiers. 

At the present time dietitians are in twenty-one of the larger hos- 
pitals in complete control of the dietary department, and are being 
installed in the other hospitals as fast as competent dietitians can 
be secured and taught the cost accounting system in use in the Military 
Hospitals. 

A dietitian can perfonn a work of inestimable value in planning attrac- 
tive and well-balanced menus and in seeing that the preparation is such 
as it should be and the ser\ace good. Also by using a modern, 
up-to-date cost accounting system she can tell at the end of a week the 
average cost of a meal. Few institutions can afford to ignore costs; 
therefore, the dietitian largely controls the cost by selection of her 
menu. 

Today there is a crying need for competent, executive dietitians 
wherever a large number of people are being fed. The name "dieti- 
tian" is associated in many minds with the work of teaching nurses 
and supervising their work in a special diet Idtchen where the special 
diets and meals for private patients are prepared. Tliis is the work of 
many dietitians and is of the greatest importance, but the modern, 



1918] WORK OF DIETITIAN IN CANADIAJ^ MILITARY HOSPITALS 109 

executive dietitian has travelled far from this limited field of operation. 
Today she is in control and responsible for the food served to everyone 
in the institution, whether patients on special or regular diets, nurses, 
doctors, or employees. 

Why should the food to the regular patient not receive the most 
careful attention? Often the variety has to be more or less limited on 
account of the cost; therefore all the greater need for a dietitian who 
will insist and demand that each article on the menu should be both 
prepared and served as attractively as possible. A menu that is fault- 
less may be written by many, but the product may be "hopeless," be- 
cause there are two places where it may be completely ruined, either in 
the cooking or in the serving. This is where the dietitian comes to the 
rescue. She can give detailed instructions (and what is more, see ihat 
they are carried out) to her cooks regarding method, temperature, and 
time of cooking, and she can so route the serving that the food is served 
hot or cold as the case may be. 

Ser\dce is the great problem in the modern hotel. It is just as great 
a problem in a hospital, and all the motion study and efficiency manage- 
ment information available is needed to assist the executive dietitian to 
route her work in such a way that the everyday meal being prepared 
for great numbers is served attractively and well. 

Conditions in military convalescent hospitals are quite different from 
those in a regular civilian hospital. Possibly 80 or 90 per cent of the 
men are up and walking around, only being kept there for treatment, 
rest, and diet. Each convalescent home has a large dining room and 
usually the cafeteria service is used for all except cripples and amputa- 
tion cases. In the regular orthopaedic hospital, waiters are employed 
in the dining room, but in all others the cafeteria is being used. It 
saves labor and is more efficient and eliminates the possibility of cold 
food. 

A copy of the following directions regarding the duties and suggestions 
concerning ideals, spirit, and the importance of details is placed in the 
hands of each dietitian. 

Outline of the Duties of a Dietitian in Military Hospitals or 
Convalescent Homes 

1. A dietitian's position is that of a superintendent of her own department. 
She plans the menus, requisitions the supplies, plans the work for a'l em- 
ployees, and is in control of that department, and every person employed in it. 



110 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [March 

2. She is responsible for the work of all cooks, waiters, and other helpers 
employed in the dietary department. She must assign their work to them 
supervise its execution, criticize the condition of their work-rooms, their uni- 
form, their persona! appearance, and conduct while on duty, arrange off duty 
time for each, and instruct them when needful. 

3. She should inspect daily the condition of the dining rooms, kitchens, 
refrigerators, and equipment in her department (or, if unable to do this her- 
self, have it done by her pupil dietitian). Only by the most careful inspec- 
tion twice a day at least, can the dining rooms be kept up to the mark. 

4. The dietitian will set the standard for cooks and waiters, and other em- 
ployees, taste every single thing prepared for the main dining room, and see 
that the seasoning is correct, and the product satisfactory in every respect. 
She holds everybody in the dietary department up to the mark. 

5. During the meals the dietitian or her pupil should supervise the serving, 
see whether the food goes out in the proper quantity, see that it is hot and 
served attractively, also that servers are working rapidly and in the most 
efficient manner. 

6. The dietitian plans the work for all employees; this plan varies from 
day to day, according to the menu, number of employees not on duty, and 
the weather. (Cleaning program is chiefly affected by the vi'eather.) 

7. The dietitian or her pupil supervises the work of a special diet kitchen, 
where the bed patients' trays are prepared. General articles of diet come 
from the main kitchen, and are kept warm, but eggs and certain special arti- 
cles are prepared in the special diet kitchen, depending upon conditions. 

A Few Suggestions for Dietitians 

1. A dietitian's ideals and spirit should influence her whole department. 
It will soon be realized that she is striving to serve only food that is nourish- 
mg, easily digested, properly prepared, palatable, attractive, and well served, 
such as should be given to patients whose chief chance of recovery may be in 
proper diet. Everyone in her department must realize the importance of 
his or her work in assisting to carry out this ideal. The welfare and recovery 
of the patients is the goal to be kept constantly before them. 

2. A dietitian should not only be able to manage the help, but it is quite as 
essential that she be capable of working harmoniously with the other officers 
of the institution, oblige whenever it is possible, and make everbody feel that 
she is the friend of the hospital, and doing everything in her power for the 
benefit of the institution. Confidence in the dietitian personally may mean 
everything to her success. She should master hospital etiquette and be 
strictly professional. The longer one lives in a hospital the more one will 
appreciate its significance. 



1918] WORK or DtETITL\N IN CANADIAN MILIT.ARY HOSPITALS 111 

3. In dealing with the help try to inspire respect for their work because it 
is one of the most needed elements in their life, e.g., many waiters actually 
suffer through lack of respect and appreciation for their occupation on the 
part of the public, and it stimulates and encourages them to discover that 
one appreciates the fact that it requires an exceptional degree of observation, 
memory, power to systematize, and speed, in order to be a good waiter. 
Understand your help and their difficulties. Give each employee his due 
respect and consideration and you will generally receive the same; in brief, 
apply the "Golden Rule." In planning their work do all your thinking be- 
forehand, and never ask the wrong person to do a piece of work. An employee 
is often very sensitive about his dignity, and will walk out sooner than do a 
duty usually performed by a man a little lower down in the scale. If you 
discover a malicious trouble maker, remove him at once. One such may un- 
dermine your whole discipline. 

4. Be equal to emergencies when every plan is upset without a moment's 
notice. A patient or guest cannot understand the cause if dinner is poor or 
unsatisfactory. He does not know that possibly the delivery failed to arrive, 
or the shipment was returned as unsatisfactory, or that the chef is ill. 

5. A dietitian should train her pupil dietitian in every branch of adminis- 
trative work in her department, so that she can plan the work efficiently, 
keeping in mind the variations in the menu, and number of employees avail- 
able. The pupil should supervise the serving of food, issuing of supplies by 
storekeeper, and other activities, and learn to know what every employee 
should be doing each hour of that particular day, so that she may intelli- 
gently manage that department. She should also gain experience in bu3dng 
or requisitioning in large amounts. 

6. Use good business methods in planning menus. Always consider food 
values, but also popularity, cost, equipment, and labor available. Try to 
wisely combine all these as far as possible. 

7. Use discretion and common sense in making your menus, and buying or 
requisitioning. There is as much danger in misdirected economy as in ex- 
travagance. True economy will strive for the best results, with absolutely 
no waste. Poor economy will economize on possibly one point, forgetting 
half a dozen others, e.g., in preparing creamed rice, you may save 5 cents 
per pound by buying a cheap rice, but it requires to prepare it the same 
amount of overhead charges, expensive service, milk, and eggs. Result of 
the poor rice — an inferior, unsatisfactory dessert, and waste. By using 
a good quality, the cost is increased possibly a fraction of a cent per 
order, but the result is entirely satisfactory and there is no waste. This 
illustration will hold good in many other instances that could be mentioned. 
A satisfactory diet wil not be the cheapest, but it is the only thing that will 
meet the requirements of both patients and the public, and the ideals of the 



112 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [March 

Military Hospitals Commission. Finally study efficient methods and keep 
abreast of the times. 

It is suggested that all dietitians should read "Shop Management" by F. 
W. Taylor, and "The Twelve Principles of Efficiency " by Harrington Emer- 
son, as they contain many helpful suggestions. The successful dietitian 
must be enthusiastic and put her work above every other consideration. 

Dietitians must never lose the sense of proportion. Put first things first, 
and certainly the most important thing by far is to see that the food is pre- 
pared in the proper way, with a maximum of attractiveness for the money 
expended. Have each single article on the menu as perfect as possible, both 
in preparation, seasoning, and appearance. This is the chief work of a dieti- 
tion. Criticize your chef. Your menus must be prepared according to your 
ideals not according to his, unless you heartily approve of his methods. You 
must set the pace for him. Issue your instructions through him to kitchen 
help, if you prefer, but insist that he has them carried out. 

The attractive preparation of food is nothing short of a real social service. 
With the very sick it is often their only pleasure — they look forward to their 
three meals a day, whether their three meals are only liquids or a more elabo- 
rate menu, but what a sad disappointment, if on liquids, if the lemonade is 
not properly flavored, or lukewarm — or the soup is poorly seasoned. The 
well need just as careful consideration (aside altogether from the fact that 
scientists have found the secretion of gastric juice to be directly influenced 
by the palatability of food) because the three meals, particularly in a hospital, 
are the most important event in the day's program and no single individual 
in the whole institution can render as important a service as a wide awake 
dietitian who sees that those three meals go out as perfect in every detail as 
possible. 

A dietitian's success depends almost entirely upon her appreciation of the 
great importance of the details. The details in a dietitian's work are the big 
things and no dietitian will be a true success until she fully realizes this. 

Is your gravy an attractive brown color? Is it properly seasoned? Does 
your chef use the flavoring in his meat pans to the best advantage? 

Are your soups varied? Is each one always tasted and criticized and ap- 
proved by the dietitian before being served? 

Are your vegetables seasoned and as attractive as possible? 

Potatoes particularly should be carefully watched. Are they mashed well 
and beaten until like whipped cream — never soggy or heav}' or yellow? 

Is the porridge of the right consistency and properly salted? 

If serving a fruit salad are all the ingredients in almost uniform sizes? 
Are the sections of orange diced and the whole as attractive as for the most 
expensive private ward? There is often no difference in cost except a little 
in supervision and labor. Vary your fruit salads according to the season of 



1918] WORK OF DIETITL\N IN CANADIAN MILITARY HOSPITALS 113 

the year. Occasionally a small dice of raspberry jelly or, in cherry season, 
raw cherries look attractive and are well worth while in increased variety. 

All custards, blanc manges, bread puddings, cottage puddings, jellies, and 
baked rice can be prepared in the oblong baking dishes and cut into 24, 28, or 
32 pieces according to the size of dish and thickness of the dessert. If serving 
a large number the greatest speed is attained if desserts are all cut first, then 
one man lifts each section with a slice and pushes off with a knife, while an 
assistant removes the dessert saucers as fast as he can serve. Speed and 
accuracy can be obtained and the servings are uniform and attractiTC. If 
a sauce is used a third party can serve it. Particularly in a large institution 
where a great number have to be served, system and motion study are neces- 
sary to save labor and get the best results. 

Under no circumstances allow the bookkeeping and accounting end of 
your work to become the big end. The planning of menus, supervision, and 
regular tasting of everything is of vastly more importance, and the dietitian 
must never lose sight of this. Bookkeeping is done in between meals because 
a dietitian cannot remain in the kitchen constantly and she does not need to 
do so. Accounts are principally for the information of the dietitian. She 
can list the cost per serving of each article she serves and more intelligently 
plan her menus. Often the food values and the attractiveness are about equal 
between two dishes, but one considerably less expensive. A saving of one 
cent per meal through more efficient selection with a population of 250 people 
means §7.50 a day or $2737.50 saved in a year, and possibly quite as attrac- 
tive and nourishing dishes, but selected so as to take full advantage of the 
season of the year and market conditions. 

A large part of the routine of the bookkeeping should be done by the pupil 
dietitian, because in some institutions (depending upon the chef) the dietitian 
in charge will have to give most of her directions personally. The pupil 
must be accurate, otherwise she will not be fit to assume control of such an 
important enterprise later. The chief dietitian analyses these cost reports, 
possibly assists on them, but must not be lost in the detail, or neglect her more 
important duties. The dietitian plans the menus and will usually make out 
the requisition, but the pricing and deduction from stock cards and entry on 
spread sheets can largely be done by the pupil dietitian leaving the dietitian 
in charge more time to analyse results and study prices and think out improve- 
ments to increase efficiency in her department. 

If possible interest some of the local societies or school children in your 
department st that your dining room can be constantly supplied with either 
cut flowers, flowering plants, or ferns. The bare appearance is removed from 
the dining room and quite a different atmosphere created by iJowers. 



114 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [March 

THE PROJECT IN HOME ECONOMICS TEACHING^ 

W. W. CHARTERS 

Professor of Education, University of Illinois 

DEFINITION OF THE PROJECT 

An examination of the pedagogical literature of home economics, as 
well as of agriculture, mathematics, and the physical, biological, or social 
sciences reveals, on the one hand, an almost complete lack of unanimity 
upon the meaning of the term project, and, on the other hand, a rap- 
idly growing use of the term in the discussion of both the curriculum 
and methods of teaching. 

It is, perhaps, too much to expect that the term has been used for a 
length of time sulhciently extended to permit of a definition which will 
be generally accepted ; but it is imperative that each writer define as 
clearly as he can what he believes to be the denotations and connotations 
of the term. 

In this paper the project is considered to be an act carried to com- 
pletion in its natural setting and involving the solution of a relatively 
complex problem. 

Four terms of the definition should receive a few words of explanation. 

First, the project is a problem. This differentiates it from reflex and 
habitual acts such as digestion and respiration which are normally car- 
ried on without the intervention of consciousness, or from knitting or 
dishwashing when they have become habitual. Any of these may be- 
come problems, as the control of respiration to the singer, or knitting 
to a novice. They are problems when they require thought but when 
they are reflexive or habitual they are no longer problems. 

Second, the project is a relatively complex problem. Problems 
have many degrees of complexity. The holding of a paring knife, the 
placing of a glass on a shelf, or the closing of an oven door, are prob- 
lems whenever they involve any modicum of thinking. On the other 
hand, such compHcated actions as the preparation of a roast or the 
canning of fruit are equally problems when they involve any degree of 
thinking. 

It so happens that in the laboratory a complex problem may be so 
presented to a class as to make it appear to them to be a number of 

' Presented at the meeting of the American Home Economics Association, Kansas City, 
February, 1917. 



1918] THE PROJECT IN HOME ECONOMICS TEACHING 115 

isolated problems rather than as one complex problem consisting of a 
series of subordinate ones. For instance, a teacher who expects the 
class to can fruit may pursue two plans. She may set before them the 
complex problem of fruit canning and start them to work upon its solu- 
tion step by step and in the treatment of each of the steps may dis- 
close its bearing upon the final outcome. This can be done by raising 
the problem, "How is the canning of fruit carried on?" The students 
may then analyze the process and discover that it involves, for in- 
stance, sterilization and the use of air-tight receptacles. Sterilization 
may be in turn taken as a problem and analyzed into such elements as 
temperature, and the hfe habits of mold. In this process of analysis 
the teacher starts from the outcome, canning, and works through the 
subordinate problems one by one and in each case makes clear to the 
class the bearing of each upon the final outcome. 

Or, on the other hand, the teacher may teach the use of the thermom- 
eter, the hfe history of molds, the degree of temperature necessary to 
kill molds, and the construction of air-tight receptacles without making 
the students conscious of their bearing upon canning; and later the 
canning may be taken up as an application of all the individual factors 
which have been studied as isolated problems 

It is thus possible for a portion of subject matter which appears as a 
complex problem to the teacher to be a series of isolated small problems 
to the students. But the term project, as will be seen more clearly 
before the end of our discussion, applies to the complex rather than the 
simple problem although we are able to divide a large project into a 
nimiber of subordinate ones. 

Third, The project contemplates the solution of a complex problem 
as one step toward carrying over of the fruits of the solution into some 
form of action. For instance, it is possible to introduce the class to the 
complex problem of fruit-canning, to \dew it as a complex of subordinate 
problems rather than an agglomeration of isolated problems, to teach 
the steps in the process and the reasons for each, and stop at that point 
without completing the act of canning. This is the theory of canning 
without the practice. It constitutes the solution of a complex problem 
but is not a project because by the definition of the term performance 
of the act is necessary. 

WTxile the canning of fruit which we have used as an illustration is 
usually carried over into practice in the laboratory, there are many 
facts of home economics which frequently are left in the field of theory. 



116 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [March 

For instance, because of the difficulty which many schools have in ob- 
ta.ining the equipment necessary to carry into practice theories of sani- 
tation or inside decoration, it is probably safe to say that in almost all 
high schools these problems are not carried through to performance. 
The students study how to furnish rooms but do not furnish them. 

It is possible, as has been said, to present the problems of these and 
other portions of subject matter as complex problems with subordinate 
problems connected in a trend of thought leading to a final solution. 
Such problems of a complex sort may be called "multiproblems." They 
are distinguished from simple problems by their relative complexity 
and from the project because they are not carried over into action in a 
natural setting. 

Fourth, in order that the multiproblem wliich is carried over into 
action may become a project it is necessary that the action be com- 
pleted in its natural setting. The term, natural setting, is full of diffi- 
culties of definition when carried into the interior of any bodj' of sub- 
ject matter, but for our purposes it is relatively simple, as an illustra- 
tion will make clear. The multiproblem of canning may be carried 
into the field of practice by the canning of a small amount of fruit in 
small utensils, and the student may learn the pi-actice of canning or per- 
haps it is better to say obtains a simple illustration of the practice. 
But' this is not the natural setting of the action. The amount of the 
fruit 's unusual. If the student were canning at home she would have 
to can a peck or a bushel and would have to use several jars. The 
process is also unnaturally simple. If she were canning a bushel of 
fruit she would probably have to simultaneously watch a fire, get many 
jars ready, find proper places to set them or attend to one portion 
while another is cooking. In addition to this merely technical process 
she would have somewhat in mind before the canning began the social 
problems of preparing food for winter, of pleasing her mother or her 
father or her prospective guests, of demonstrating that she is a good 
housekeeper, or of earning some money for student activities in the high 
school. 

The project idea as I have defined it contemplates the performance 
of an act in as nearly its natural setting as possible. The project seems 
to be an attempt to return to the concrete conditions of home edu- 
cation from the abstract isolation of the school. It presupposes natural 
activities flowing in spontaneous currents. Problems arise; they are 
analyzed and solved and are made to perform their intrinsic functions 
in actual situations. 



1918] THii TROJECT IN HOME ECONOMICS TEACHING 117 

THE PROJECT .\ND THE CURRICULUM 

Th-cre are at least three bases for the construction of a home economics 
curriculum — principles, processes, and projects (or multiproblems) 
If the latter is selected as the basis, either in the form of multiproblems 
or projects, an unsystematic hold upon the subject matter results. Only 
what is needed for the project is used and it is used only in the order 
needed. It is conceivable that with a change in projects the parts of 
the subject matter studied might be appreciably different. 

If the project is to be made the basis of the curriculum it is necessary 
for the teacher to decide as scientifically as possible what principles 
and processes should be mastered by the student and then to select not 
single projects but groups of projects so arranged that election of projects 
is made possible with the certainty that all essential facts, processes, 
and principles will be covered. Then when the principles and processes 
have been covered by the project method in class, enough time should 
be left in the course so that the subject matter may be systematized. 
First, the project is used for the approach to all parts of the subject, 
and then a systematizing study of the field follows as an extended 
summary. 

ADVANTAGES AND LIMITATIONS 

It is clainied that the project method has three outstanding advantages 
and one important limitation. 

The advantages are described as follows: 

First, the natural setting provides a strong motive — canning fruit 
for the family is more interesting, we wiU say, than cooking a little 
fruit in a small laboratory utensil. Treating the mold on fruit "I have 
carmed for winter use" is more stimulating than studying molds as 
ends in themselves. Studying sterilization to use immediately in 
putting up fruit for friends has much more appeal than merely study- 
ing sterilization as a class exercise. Tying the process to outcomes 
and beginnings of a varied and intensely fundamental sort tends to 
produce a great spontaneous interest. All projects are not interest- 
ing to any one student, but if a project is selected so as to be of interest, 
the degree of the interest is likely to be very high because of the setting 
in the experience of the student. It is claimed that when the project 
is interesting, it is very interesting. 

A second advantage claimed is that the natural setting and the great 
multiproblem with its coherent subordinate problems make the intellect 



118 THE jouKNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [March 

function in a fuller tide of activity. The strong initial motive and 
the constant side lights from practical conditions and immediate prac- 
tical outcomes make the student think with a higher degree of effec- 
tiveness. 

The acquisition of skill in carrying out processes in actual practice 
is a third advantage claimed. After the student has learned fruit can- 
ning or bread making or hat designing in school as a project she is 
able to can fruit, make bread, and design hats at home. She does not 
know mere theory; she has learned the method of performance. The 
advocates of the project method assert that after the theory is learned 
there is a wide zone of danger in carrying out the solution, a zone full 
of difficulties which may ruin the effectiveness of the performance. 
They point to the fact that some students of home economics whose 
mastery of the theories is conceded by the most critical, are very in- 
efficient homemakers. These advocates explain this by saying that the 
performance of the act itself involves a very important technique which 
needs as careful attention as does the solution of theoretical problems 
or multiproblems. Nor can it be any more safely left to chance, they 
say, in the expectation that the student will pick it up for herself at some 
future time than can the learning of the theory. It is essential to a 
successful hold upon the subject. 

The advocates of the project claim further that the performance of 
the act involves not only the theory and practice of the technique of 
performance but also the very essential desire to perform the act under 
home conditions. They claim that a student may solve multiproblems 
of house sanitation with marked abihty and still have no desire to 
make her own home sanitary or, at least, no desire strong enough to 
stimulate her persistently until the home is made sanitary. This mak- 
ing of the desire concretely effective, which is included within the project 
method has, they say, a technique for its mastery as difficult to learn 
and as necessary to be taught as the solution of the multiproblem or 
the performance of the act. 

The chief limitation of the project method is its failure to provide a 
systematic organization of the facts and principles of the field of study. 
Facts and principles are acquired only as they are needed in the perform- 
ance of the project and in the order in which they are used in each par- 
ticular project. It is, therefore, conceivable and likely, indeed, in 
actual operation, unless care is taken, that some important facts and 
principles will be omitted, and those studied will not be seen in their 
logical relations except possibly by a few of the more gifted. 



1918] THE PROJECT IN HOME ECONOMICS TEACHING 119 

To send a student forth into the practical situations of Hfe without 
a systematic organization of a subject, if he is of sufficient maturity to 
grasp it and if the time at the disposal of the teacher is sufficient to pro- 
vide for it, is unfortunate. Therefore, it is necessary if this limitation 
is to be overcome, that the project study of any group of facts should, 
under proper conditions of maturity and adjustable time limits, be sup- 
plemented by a systematic review of the field. This holds equally true 
of the multiproblem attack. 

In brief, the project method presents the machinery for unusually 
strong interest, for a fuller tide of intellectual activity, and for the de- 
velopment of the technique of practical performance and desirable 
attitudes; but it needs to be supplemented under the proper conditions 
by a systematic organization of the facts and principles included within 
the field. That it is universally apphcable is neither certain nor Likely; 
but that it should be experimentally used for the purpose of determining 
where it will work efficiently, is highly desirable. 



EAT VEGETABLES AND SAVE BREAD 

There are large supplies in Canada of potatoes, carrots, and onions in 
excess of the amounts normally consumed by the people of this country. 
These vegetables are all wholesome food and it is a small but necessary 
war service for the people of the Dominion to increase their consumption 
of these commodities and to eat less bread, meat, and other foods which 
are so greatly needed overseas. Unless Canadians will use more freely 
the vegetables of which we have a surplus supply, large stocks will be 
wasted — and, at a time when there is such need of food in Europe, 
waste would be nothing short of criminal. Eat more of the vegetables 
in order to save exportable food for the soldiers and the civilian popula- 
tions Vv'ho already know the meaning of food shortage. — Canadian Food 
Bulletin, Ottawa, January 26, 1918. 



120 THE joxiRNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [March 

CONSERVATION AND CLUB WORK 

LUCILE WHEELER 

University of Illinois 

In club work with the boys and girls of the land, there is a greater 
qpportunity for laying the real foundation for genuine and thorough con- 
servation than in any other field of endeavor. As the twig is bent, the 
tree inclines, and as the first ideas of saving, not from the initiative 
of hoarding or stinginess, but for the purpose of thrift and from humani- 
tarian instinct are instilled in the minds and hearts of boys and girls, 
there will develop results which cannot be obtained otherwise. With 
them, there are encountered no idiosyncrasies due to years of experience, 
no ruts have been worn, but they are ready to learn. To them fat can 
be mixed with flour for piecrust with a knife or with a fork equally well 
for ttey cannot say, "Oh, I've always done it this way." Even the 
young wife knows too well the effect of mother's biscuits. In vain she 
tries to make ones "like mother used to make" to cater to the masculine 
palate. All are creatures of habit. AU have standards due to past ex- 
perience. Therefore, in club work with young people, nothing hampers 
the possibilities. Starting then with inexperience but with youthful 
eathusiasm and the devotion to a cause, it is easy to develop the future 
workers. 

The opportunities in club work at this particular time all focus on 
conservation. Conservation of food, of clothing, and of coal. Posters 
everywhere say use less fat, less wheat, less sugar; save the wool for 
the aged, the babies, the soldiers ; save coal by keeping the house cooler, 
burning less gas and less electricity. Minds become calloused to inani- 
mate entreaties. They are no more conscious of them than noises in 
the street which day after day make no impression. It is necessary to 
keep prodding, and dress up the appeal in new words. The necessity 
for conser\'ing staples calls for substitutes. The ease of finding sub- 
stitutes is not equaled by ease in using them. Originality on the part 
of the teacher or leader, plus the enthusiasm or magnetism which makes 
the youth desire to follow in his wake are the factors which will bring 
success. 

Two obstacles have been hard to overcome. The substitute should 
be desirable, and, to make popular appeal, it should be cheaper than 
that for which it is substituted. Corn, for instance, is found less palat- 
able to the majority than wheat, and harder to use. In many cases, 



1918] CONSERVATION AyO) CLUB WORK 121 

it has cost more than wheat. A way must be found to use com, and 
since the purpose here is to save wheat and not a quarter of a cent, the 
money factor must be discounted. In using butter substitutes, there 
is a saving of money. Oleo at 35 cents a pound and butter at 57 cents 
would easily allow one to pay a fraction more for corn meal than for 
wheat flour. When the food administration has continued a b'ttle 
longer the work so admirably begun, the regulation of prices will tend to 
remove the objection that the substitute is more expensive than the 
original foodstuff. It is only natural to have objections arise when fish 
is more expensive than beef and furnishes less energy material for the 
money. 

Conservation and thrift go hand in hand. Thrift makes conservation 
possible and efficient. The saving of materials and the sa\dng of money 
have a delicate adjustment. The emphasis on the last may weaken the 
cause of conserv^ation. Thrift manifests itself in three v/ays — saving 
materials, sa\"ing money, saving labor. The foodstuffs satisfactory for 
transportation and absolutely essential for the maintenance of the army 
abroad and the ci\aKans of foreign countries must be saved. Figures 
recently compiled show that the world's wheat crop for the last year is 
14 per cent, that is, 1,868,000 bushels below the five year average. 
Corn has increased in amount equal to the deficiency in wheat. Oats 
have gained 14 per cent, rice, 16 per cent, potatoes, 12 per cent. The 
conclusion is obvious that we must use corn, oats, rice, and potatoes 
and less wheat. 

The saving of money through the elimination of non-essentials is 
thrift. It means that such money can be diverted from former chan- 
nels to the purchase of Liberty Bonds and Thrift Stamps. Ceasing to 
buy fabrics, home furnishings, clothing, toys, candies, which can be 
dispensed with, releases labor for activities directly contributory to 
war efficiency. Everyone who can do something wliich previously 
was done by a paid worker can feel he is filling a vacancy made by 
someone called to serve. The transition of the released worker to the 
new emplojTnent may not be directly observable, but it does occur. 
In this way, children are to help out. Their energy can be harnessed and 
much done by them to carry the additional tasks laid upon the home. 

Boys and Girls Club work takes away the stigma of child labor. It is 
pleasure and fruitful activity coupled. It accomplishes two things. It 
makes the child an asset by training him, and through the child it 
reaches the parents and stimulates them to use and conserve. A girl can 



122 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [March 

be taught to make a new bread and the mother's pride in her accomplish- 
ment means a war bread used which would not have been used before. 

There are two tilings which ought to be worked for to make conserva- 
tion efficient. Definite patriotic standards is the first. Bread charts 
and bread scores have been estabHshed which for years have stressed 
the fine points of a perfect loaf. No longer is the same loaf attainable. 
The new milling rule requiring a 74 per cent yield instead of a 60 per 
cent has changed the breadstuff. Elasticity of the protein constituents 
determines size and lightness of loaf. Fine milling affects the starch con- 
tent and determines whiteness of the loaf. These factors are losing 
their place. Palatability and flavor are less affected. Could not new 
scoring factors be introduced, giving a valuation to percentage of mixed 
flours used and taking into account the increase in mineral nutrients 
furnished by a use of the whole grain? 

Second, eliminate the white loaf. So long as there is on Tuesday the 
old perfect loaf, just so long will there be discontent on Wednesday. 
Comparisons are always odious. Make the path easy for the war bread 
if it has to be made easy. Besides the slogan, "a wheatless day," 
adopt the slogan "no day an all-wheat day" or "no bread an all wheat 
bread." 

There are many objections to such a suggestion, but they are founda- 
tionless. Some say they do not like these war breads. But from several 
places the report has come that never before have such good breads been 
served as this winter when mixed flours were used. This shows that with 
care and effort a good product results. Others say that they cannot eat 
cornmeal, they dislike buckwheat, and rye is disagreeable. Digestive 
disturbances are not due to these wheat substitutes. They are all sat- 
isfactory in food values, and can be safely used. It has been shown 
possible, by feeding experiments with animals and human beings, to exist 
on these grains as part of the diet in a much greater proportion than they 
would be used in the home. There are advantages in using them, for the 
wheat substitutes are less highly milled and furnish more mineral and fat 
than does white flour. The use of mixed flours gives greater variety in 
breadstuffs and means additions to the home table to be welcomed and 
not merely tolerated. 



1918J PATRIOTISM AND FOOD 123 

PATRIOTISM AND FOOD 

From The Food Problem^ 

Patriotism and food! Winning a world war by eating corn and 
chicken instead of wheat and beef! It will take much education to 
get this point of view. An army of food-savers does not appeal to the 
imagination at first consideration. But remember the large words of 
M. Bloch: "That is the future of war — not fighting but famine." 

Germany is fighting not only with armies of men in field-gray but 
with greater armies of un-uniformed men, women and children; the 
civihan armies of workers and food-savers. Germany is fighting as a 
whole people, a whole nation mobilized. Germany is fighting to win a 
war that was to have been all conquest and glory, and is now all Durch- 
halten. In this fighting and Durchhalten Germany has lifted food to 
all the importance that M. Bloch prophesied for it. She is struggling 
to hold off famine from herself and to assure famine for her enemies. 
Germany controls food, saves food, stretches food, as no nation ever 
did before. That she has not already been beaten is due no less to her 
food organization than to her fighting organization. She has put patriot- 
ism and food together. So must we. 

It is a time of rare and glorious opportunity; a time in which prosaic 
business and industry may be lifted up to the high plane of national 
service. And it is being so conceived in many quarters. The editor of 
a millers' journal puts it well for his miller and baker readers when he 
says: "He who grinds a barrel of flour or makes a loaf of bread to the 
glory and the good of the nation, forgetful of self, performs his duty 
in a spirit of devotion equal in its way to that of him who goes forth 
to actual battle." 

And just as business and industry can perform their national service 
by putting patriotisrii and food together, so can we who serve our house- 
holds and pubUc dining-rooms; and so also can we who eat — in a word, 
all of us. There is no magic way to making food win the war. It can 
be done but in one way, the way of voluntary and eager resolution and 
action of the whole people, each group and each person according to 
the measure of his opportunity and means; a matter of daily personal 
service on every farm, in all the places through which pass the great 
food masses, and, finally, in every little shop and every kitchen and at 
every table in the land. 

' For a review of this book see page l.?9. 



124 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [March 

It is not a sordid association, patriotism and food. It can be as fine 
as the spirit of democracy and as ennobling as the struggle for democ- 
racy. For it is, in truth, in these days an essential part of each. If 
we cannot organize our effort in this world crisis by the individual 
initiative, spirit and consent of the people, then democracy is a faith 
on which we cannot stand. For autocracy has shown that it can organ- 
ize its effort; it does it by imposing organization by force, from the 
top. We must do it from the bottom, and voluntarily. The admin- 
istration of food is a test of what our form of goverimient is worth. 
If success in it did no more than insure its immediate aim, providing 
our Allies with food, it would be wholly worth while. But it will do 
more than that ; it will prove our faith in ourselves. 



THERE IS NOTHING NEW UNDER THE SUN 

Mixed breads and weighed rations have the authority of a long 
ancient past. Nearly 600 years before Christ, Ezekiel gave the people 
of Israel this message : 

Take thou also unto thee wheat, and barley, and beans, and lentiles, 
and millet, and fitches (spelt), and put them in one vessel, and make 
thee bread thereof .... three hundred and ninety days shalt 
thou eat thereof. 

And thy meat which thou shalt eat shall be by weight, twenty shekels 
a day: from tim^e to time shalt thou eat it. 

Thou shalt drink also water by measure, the sixth part of an hin: 
from time to time shalt thou drink. 

Moreover he said unto me. Son of man, behold, I will break the staff 
of bread in Jerusalem; and they shall eat bread by weight, and with 
care; and they shall drink water by measure, and with astonishment. 

—Ezekiel 4: 9-11,16. 



FOR THE HOMEMAKER 

WHAT WE SHALL WEAR THIS YEAR AND NEXT 

•MY L. ROLFE 
Departmeni of Home Economics, University of Missouri 

What we shall wear in the months to come is always an interesting 
matter for speculation, but this year, when there is such a L;cnera' tex- 
tile upheaval caused by the World War, the subject becomes not only 
interesting but a matter of serious import. 

Few persons realize the ver>' small amount of textile fibres which can 
be purchased by our clothing manufacturers or the causes which have 
brought about such conditions. 

Those of you who have done much Red Cross knitting know how dif- 
ficult it is becoming to procure yarn for that purpose. This is because 
there is so little raw wool on the market, and so much of that is b.''ng 
commandeered by the government for soldiers' uniforms and blankets 
that there is very little left for other use. For some time there has been 
a marked decrease in the amount of wool grown in this country. There 
are now 15,000,000 less sheep in the United States than there were in 
1903. This decrease is due to the rise in land rental and to the hi her 
wages which must be paid to the sheep herders. The governme; t in 
time past allowed sheep to graze on the big ranges without charge, but 
now the large tracts of land are being broken up into smaller holdings 
and fences are required which are expensive and require much labor to 
keep in repair. This has discouraged the sheep growers. They have 
gradually gone out of business and have taken up a less troublesome 
means of livelihood. A More-Sheep-More-Wool Association has been 
formed recently which met in Philadelphia on the eighth of November to 
discuss the problem and to devise measures to relieve the situation. 

Before the war the United States grew only two-thirds of the wool used 
in our mills, and the remaining third came from abroad. Now none is 
imported except from South .'\m erica, for the Allies have use for all 
they can get. Besides that used for uniforms and blankets, millions of 
yards of worsted cloth, costing S3 a yard and known as shalloon and 

125 



126 THE JOTJRNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [March 

shell cloth, are bemg used in bagging or covering both the propelling 
and explosive charges for the big guns. Every bit of wool used in this 
way is entirely destroyed. 

Even if there were an abundant supply of raw wool, however, the 
supply of yarn would certainly be Hmited because of the scarcity of 
labor. The draft has taken spinners from the mills in great numbers 
and new workers must be trained before they can use their hands skill- 
fully. This situation has troubled the A Hies for some time. France is 
now trying to get Japanese weavers and textile operatives to come to 
that country to work in the mUls which have had to be closed because 
of the scarcity of workmen. 

For these and various other reasons it seems very improbable that 
there will be much wool to be worn by the civilian populatic n next 
year . It is not likely that the Government will have to take measures 
to restrict the amount of wool used in manufacturing ci\alian clothing 
or enforce any change in the present way of doing business along that 
line. People will probably be able to get what they are willing to pay 
for, but the prices, based on the available supply, will be so high that 
they will not care to pay for all wool cloth. Instead, they will buy cotton 
and wool material which is now being woven in great quantity for the 
spring trade. Manufacturers have estimated that 25 per cent of raw 
wool may be saved in this manner. The material will have the appear- 
ance of all wool because the cotton is placed in the inside of the yarn, or 
on the back of the cloth. This the public will pay for at all wool prices 
and -will be extremely thankful to get it when they compare their lot 
with that of the German civilians. 

In Germany the aspirant for wearing apparel must go to the New 
Clothing Bureau in the district police station. There he is carefuUy 
questioned as to the amount of clothing which he already possesses 
before he is allowed to buy more. One suit, one hat, one pair of shoes, 
and two suits of underwear, only, are allowed at one time. They must 
be worn until they are absolutely worn out. Appearance, style, and 
fashion are things of the past with the German people. 

The cotton situation is almost as bad as the wool situation, although 
the United States has the advantage as it grows more than half the cot- 
ton in the world. But even though there is a good supply to draw upon 
the war need is so great that the price of raw cotton has risen to alarm- 
ing heights. This is not surprising when you consider that a bale of 
cotton is needed to fire one of the large guns, vast quantities are used 



1918J WH,\T WE SHALL WEAR THIS YEAR -AJSTD NEXT 127 

for the unbleached muslin and gauze used in Red Cross work, and a 
still greater amount is commandeered by the government for khaki uni- 
forms and tents. For this reason when the cotton demand is consid- 
ered it is doubtful if the use of cotton instead of wool for clothing can 
prove to be as much of an economic saving as at first seemed possible. 

The use of linen as a substitute is more impossible still. Millions of 
yards of linen are needed for aeroplane wings, for it has been found to be 
the most satisfactory of any fibre for this use because of its strength. Cot- 
ton would be good for aeroplane wings as it is very elastic if it were 
not for its lack of strength and if it were not so inflammable, due to the 
oil contained in the fibres. Experiments are now being carried on by 
the Government to devise some way in which strength and fire proof 
qualities may be added to cotton. If that were possible then more 
linen would be released for surgical dressings and for thread for the army 
shoes. So far, cotton thread has not proved strong enough to stand the 
strain. 

The reason for the shortage of hnen is that much of the flax of the 
world has been grown near the German border and has been trampled 
down and broken by the warfare which has been going on there. Some 
flax has also been grown in Belgium, especially around Courtrai and 
that also has been ruined, as well as vast quantities which had been placed 
in the River Lys for retting before the German invasion. There is prac- 
tically no flax grown for the fibre in the United States, so linen as a 
dress material will probably be out of the reach of most .American buyers 
by next year. 

Most of our silk comes to us from China and Japan and so the supply 
of that material should be httle influenced by the war. At the present 
time the government uses silk only for balloon cases, but a series of ex- 
periments are being conducted at the front which may result in the use 
of all the silk which it is possible to procure. As the boys "Somewhere 
in France" are sent into the trenches they are provided with silk under- 
wear. It is thought that sOk will prove to be gas resisting and also will 
be less irritating to the wounds than cotton when driven into the body 
by shrapnel. For this reason the use of silk for suits and dresses will 
probably be restricted. 

As wool, cotton, linen, and silk comprise the list of fibres which are com- 
monly used for clothing, and as each has, or will have its place in war 
use, the result is that we in the United States who cannot take an active 
part in warfare must do our bit by conserving the supply of textiles. 



128 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [March 

The manufacturers will help us to do this by using as little material as 
possible in their ready to wear garments. Skirts will be comfortably 
narrow, suit coats will be short, single breasted with small lapels and 
collars. Ornamental revers, patch pockets, and belts will be eliminated. 
Conservative styles will be in vogue because people will know that 
whatever the}' buy this year they must expect to wear much longer 
than usual. They will realize that they would soon tire of extreme 
clothing. 

Fashion and style to the average person seems rather a capricious sub- 
ject governed by a few artists or dress designers in Paris. But in reality 
it is the reflection of a definite economic condition of the country or the 
world. In times of lu.iury people always wear extreme clothing. For 
ages past women have advertised the size of their husbands' pocket 
books by the clothing which they wear. For it is easier for a man to 
display his wealth by spending it upon the clothing of his wife and chil- 
dren than in any other way. This may be done by jewelry and also 
by means of clothing which is distinctly not utilitarian. The wives and 
daughters of the men of the Orient bind their feet to show their helpless- 
ness — their husbands and fathers proclaim to the world by this means 
that they are able to support the feminine members of their famil}- in 
idleness. In our so-called more enlightened countries the women wear 
hobble skirts or long sweeping garments as well as high heeled shoes to 
show the abihty of their husbands to support them in luxurious ease. 
It is manifestly impossible to the observer for anj^ woman to scrub a 
kitchen floor in a trailing gown or to do a day's washing in a hobble 
skirt. 

In times of luxury people always wear extreme clothing, — clothing 
which hampers freedom of movement such as hobble skirts, or tight 
skirts, or v.rhich are so voluminous that they get in the way. In the 
last few years the people of the United States have been especially pros- 
perous; men have had enough money to buy automobiles, to pay for 
after theater suppers and to buy quantities of candy. With the is ;- of 
automobiles and extravagant eating people grew fat and lazv, and as it 
is one of the general principles of dress design that full loo-e clothing is 
most becoming to a stout figure so very full skirts and ^oats naturally 
came into fashion. When women, because of the war, find that the}' 
must give up the use of automobiles and are obliged to go out into the 
world to do some definite work which their husbands and brothers who 
are now in the trenches have been doing in the past they will lose their 



1918] HELP THE HOUSEWIFE 129 

superfluous fat and grow slender again. That will be another reason 
for the popularity of the more tailored close fitting costumes. 

All women will not be able to go out into the world to do definite 
war work. Some will not even be able to spend their afternoons at the 
various Red Cross branches. The duties of home and children will 
keep many tied down to more prosaic and perhaps less romantic work. 
For them mending and remodelling will be revived as a lost art, for dur- 
ing the next year we shall find that we must not only conserve in the 
textiles which we buy but also in the textiles which we already have 
stored away in our attics in the form of old clothes. The woman who 
has hoarded outgrown garments may find reason for rejoicing. 



HELP THE HOUSEWIFE 

LILLIAN P. RUSSELL 

Every day one reads the familiar words that look out at us from store 
windows, confront us on posters, or greet us in the morning paper, "Help 
the Red Cross, Help the soldiers to win the war." May the name of 
housewife be added to the list of those needing help, for if the "war is 
to be won in the kitchen" then every one should have a part in the 
victory. 

In many homes the planner of meals, whether she be the mother, 
older sister, aunt, or housekeeper needs just the support and encourage- 
ment which can be given by those for whom she is planning meals. She 
is doing her "bit" by getting the greatest value for money in both food 
and fuel. In her plans for "backing up Hoover" she provides war 
bread three or four times a week. Is it fair that she should be the one 
to eat up all leftovers, cold muffins for instance? The writer has ex- 
perimented a little in that line, and has put on the table a plate of white 
bread and corn meal muffins, both a day old. Those of the family 
who for years have professed a fondness for cornmeal will invariably 
take the white bread and leave the other for the one who knows she 
must eat it or plan some "camouflage" in order not to waste it. 

When bread and gravy or bread and jam are served, would it not be 
more r)atriotic to do away with the butter or butter substitute than to 



130 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [March 

use both at one time, even though one may have a special fondness for 
such dishes? The suggestion is naturally made that both need not 
appear at the same meal. That is very well if the planner of meals is 
the "money getter" also, but when others are perhaps paying for the 
food and demand "the best," the housewife needs the help that could 
be given by the little sacrifice entailed in curbing the appetite. 

The sugar shortage has been a fine test for those trying to lighten the 
burdens of the housewife. Each one should ask himself the question 
"Did I help or did I make it just a little harder by demanding sweet 
things?" 

One mother was forced to say that unless the members of the family 
took less sugar in their coffee she would have to sweeten the whole 
amount of coffee to be used, taking the sugar out of their reach. Per- 
haps she believed that "out of sight is out of mind." 

But it is not fair or Just that the housewife should do all the sacri- 
ficing for the entire famUy. She, of course, is the one most directly 
anxious to conserve food, and what a wonderful conservation there 
would be with the combined efforts of the family behind her. She could 
accomplish unheard of wonders in the culinary department. 

At the begiiming of the National Food Conservation Campaign, one 
of the speakers at a meeting said that the men were to be asked to sign 
a pledge, saying they were willing to aid their wives in their plans and 
methods of Food Conservation. How many of those pledges were 
signed? Far fewer than were signed by housewives is the belief of the 
writer. Yet it is only when the men of the family help as well as the 
children, that the work of conservation can be carried on effectively in 
the home. 

Nor should it be necessary for the housekeeper to resort to tricks to 
disguise the substitutions she makes. The whole family should coop- 
erate, and each do his share toward the saving of waste, the using of the 
necessary substitutes, and the clean plate. The lettuce under the salad, 
the crust of bread, the piece that used to be left for "manners," all 
should be used as a matter of course. The housemother's difficulties 
with the new 50-50 rule should be lessened by suggestion from the 
family and winning compliance, rather than increased by complaint 
and fault finding. 



1918] SERVING MEALS WITHOUT WHEAT 131 

SERVING ]\IE.\LS WITHOUT WTIEAT 

The loyal housekeeper has for the last few months been doing her 
best to substitute other grains for wheat. She has learned to like yeast 
breads made with one-fourth or one-third substitute flours or even 50-50 
or perhaps she has used rye bread containing no wheat. Now a more 
difficult situation confronts her. Rye, next best to wheat for bread- 
making, is no longer more available than wheat, and wheat is so scarce 
that a definite allowance has been made of one and one half pounds a 
week for each person, this to include all wheat products; macaroni, 
wheat breakfast foods, bread, pie, cake, whether made at home or 
purchased at the baker3\ This means one-fourth pound a day of vic- 
tory bread (about four slices) with one-half pound (2 cups) of flour a 
week for any other purposes. Moreover since there are many people, 
especially among the working classes, who have depended very largely 
upon bread and will find it exceedingly difficult to adjust themselves to 
this program, it behooves everyone who possibly can to get along with 
less, even to the point of using no wheat at all. 

Ways must be devised for using other things in the place of wheat. 
The simplest thing to do is to use more potatoes, hominy, rice, oatmeal, 
in place of bread. It is surprising how quickly one can become adjusted 
to such changes in the diet. 

Double the usual portion of cereal for breakfast and serve no toast; 
for luncheon use rice, plain, cooked in milk, with raisins or dates, scal- 
loped with cheese (with no flour thickening), seasoned with tomato, 
or mLxed with meat; or use some form of corn as fried corn meal mush or 
hominy prepared in various ways like the rice, or use potatoes, but do not 
use bread . For diimer a double portion of potatoes, or potatoes and sweet 
potatoes, potatoes and rice, or potatoes and hominy will take the place 
of bread. Use barley flour, cornflour, cornstarch, rice flour, or rice 
water for thickening soups and sauces. Use barley, tapioca, or peas or 
beans, in soup, instead of macaroni or spaghetti and serve no croutons 
or crackers. Use for dessert fruit in various forms, gelatine dishes, 
or rice and tapioca puddings. Your bill of fare has been changed, 
little has been added to your labor, and wheat is saved. 

If you can put in a little more time and want greater variety learn 
to use the other flours without any wheat in quick breads such as muf- 
fins and baking powder biscuit and in cake. 

The Food Administration in an experimental laboratory, in coopera- 
tion with the Department of Agriculture, is working out some general 



132 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS iMarch 

rules for substituting these flours so that you can use your own recipes 
and know how to modify them. 

A good standard or basic rule for muffins is: 1 cup of liquid, 2 cups 
of flour, 1 tablespoon of fat, 1 tablespoon of sugar, 1 egg, 4 teaspoons 
of baking powder, j teaspoon of salt. All muffin recipes are modifi- 
cations of this. If sour milk is used a little less flour is needed (about 
If cups) and | teaspoon of soda must take the place of half the baking 
powder. If a richer muffin is desired fat and sugar may each be in- 
creased to 3 tablespoonfuls. Sugar may be increased or lessened or 
corn syrup may be used in its place, and the egg may be omitted. This 
will change the character of the muffins somewhat but will not change 
very much the general proportions. 

In using other flours for wheat, an equal amount by weight should be 
used. It is perfectly easy to leave out one fourth, or one half, or three 
fourths of the white flour and add in its place an equal weight of barley 
flour, buckwheat, rice flour, fine corn meal, or other flours. With 
care and a little practice any one of these can be used in place of all 
the white flour. The coarser uncooked cereals seem not to be very 
satisfactory if substituted for more than one fourth of the flour, but 
often such a cereal as rolled oats may be run through a hand mill and 
be used like the fine flour. 

For those who have not scales this table of approximate weights 
has been made. 

1 cup white bread flour (113 grams) = 

1 cup barley flour (76 grams) = 3 

1 cup buckwheat flour ( 133 grams) = 5 

1 cup corn flour (109 grams) = 4 

1 cup commeal fine (114 grams) = 4 

1 cup commeal coarse (130 grams) = 5 

1 cup roUed oats (75 grams) = 3 

1 cup fine granulated oats (136 grams) = 5 

This shows that cornflour and fine cornmeal may be used practically 
measure for measure in place of flour; that of buckwheat, coarse corn- 
meal and finely ground oatmeal = cup is equal to a cup of flour; and that it 
takes \\ cups of barley flour or rolled oats to equal a cup of white flour. 
In using cooked cereals as flour substitutes allowances must be made 
for the water that they have taken up in cooking. .This will differ 
according to the method of cooking. Generally not more than a quar- 
ter of the flour can be substituted by cooked cereals and a light muQin 
be made. 



1918] DOING MY LEVEL BEST 133 

DOING MY LEVEL BEST 

CLARENCE DU BOSE 
United States Department of Agriculture 

The farm is twenty miles from town — just an ordinary everyday sort 
of place. You might not select it as the setting for one of the inspiring 
incidents of the war. The woman is a modest, unassuming sort of per- 
son, too, and doubtless she would be immeasurably astonished if it were 
suggested that much importance be attached to the war role she is play- 
ing. But, suppose we decide that for ourselves. Suppose — since every- 
one is asking these days, ''What can I do to help win the war?" — that 
we take a trip to the httle twenty-mile-from-town farm and find out 
what one woman has done and is doing. 

She is one of these kind-faced, gentle, motherly persons, and the ad- 
vancing years have whitened her hair and diminished her vigor, but not 
her determination. Before the war she lived in ease and comfort in a 
large city, very far from this western state. For, although her girlhood 
and young womanhood had been spent on a farm, where she had been 
born, her circumstances had afterwards changed entirely. The farm 
became a dream of the long ago. And the years passed, and apparently 
they held for her only a peaceful approach of old age amid a well-ordered 
e.xistence of undisturbed serenity. 

Then came the war. It changed her as it changed everything. It 
touched her life as it touched every hfe. She wondered what she could 
do. She heard the Government's call for increased food production as 
a war necessity, and she heard of the shortage of farm labor. She ap- 
praised her own abihties. She knew that the things she could do best 
were the things it is necessary for a woman to do on a farm. She re- 
membered the bygone years when she had been reckoned without an 
equal in her county as a farm home manager. Without the stunulus of 
the war, she would have quailed at undertaking again such strenuous 
and exacting duties. But under the inspiration of the new order of 
things her course seemed so clear, so obviously the only thing to do, 
that she debated the matter not at all. She simply bought a railroad 
ticket and telegraphed John and Mary that she was coming. 

John and Mary, her daughter and son-m-law, lived on the little 
twenty-mile-from-town farm. They had written that some of the farm 
help had been lost because of the war, and that they were sore pressed 
to secure labor and maintain the maximum production of the place — 



134 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [March 

the production that must be maintained and increased if we win this 
war. She was thinking of that necessity — this kindly, gray-haired 
woman — when John met her at the lonely little station, and as they 
drove out to the twenty-mile-from-town farm, the farm where she has 
been since that day, and where she is now, working in the Idtchen, pre- 
paring meals for the hands, reheving Mary of many household duties, 
increasing the farm's efficiency in many ways. 

And this is how the United States Department of Agriculture happened 
to learn of the matter. One day she read in the Neivs Letter, which is 
sent out weekly by the department, something that pleased her especially. 
So she wrote a letter to the Secretary, expressing her appreciation of 
that article, and of all the A^ews Letters in general. This was very grati- 
fying, but it was not the thing that gave the Secretary the greatest 
satisfaction. For her letter was made notable by its last lines, lines of 
sheer simplicity, added rather as an afterthought, it seemed — an inci- 
dental and ur studied expression that sums up in a sentence the war 
program that each of us must adopt, if we haven't already. 

"I am going to be here as long as I am so much needed," she wrote. 
'■ It is fine to cook for hungry men, and I feel that perhaps I may be able 
in a small way, to help solve the labor problem. At any rate, I know 
what farm life is and I also know that an industrious farmer deserves 
the best We are going to wash clothes today, and this eve- 
ning there is a pig to be cut up, lard' to be rendered, and sausage to be 
made I am doing my level best to try to help everybody." 

That was the letter that came from the little farm, twenty miles from 
town, written to the Secretary of Agriculture by a woman of elderly years 
who had left her comfortable, unburdened city home and sought the 
severities of a service where she "might be able in a small way to help 
solve the farm-labor problem." 

"I am doing my level best," she said. 

Are you doing as much? 

We must ask ourselves that question — and answer it. The Nation is 
just you, and you, and you — all of us. And unless each person does his 
and her level best the Government can't solve the farm-labor problem, 
or any other war problem — or win the war. 



EDITORIAL 

The New Ration — 21,000,000 bushels of wheat a month instead of 
42,000,0^0 bushels. This country is slowly progressing toward the idea 
of the ration, as, one after another, certain foods become less available. 
We have become used to three pounds of sugar a month, now we are 
asked to limit ourselves to 6 pounds of wheat products. 

50-50 buying and "victory" bread have failed to accomplish all 
that was hoped, partly because many have conformed only to the let- 
ter, not to the spirit of the law. Now we are asked to observe this new 
rule as a minimum. The Food Administration reminds us that many 
thousand famihes throughout the land are now using no wheat products 
whatever, except a very small amount for cooking purposes, and are 
doing so in perfect health and satisfaction. There is no reason why 
all of the American people who are able to cook in their own house- 
holds cannot subsist perfectly well with the use of less wheat products 
than one and a half pounds a week, and the well-to-do households in 
the country are specially asked to follow this additional program in 
order that the necessary marginal supplies may be provided for those 
parts of the community less able to adapt themselves to so large a 
proportion of substitutes. 

It seems inconceivable that, with a knowledge of the seriousness of 
the situation, any should still ask "why do we send wheat abroad in- 
stead of the less precious cereals." France and other allied countries 
for a long time have been using war bread with as small a percentage 
of wheat as it is possible to use,^ — bread that bears little resemblance 
in palatability to our "victory" bread. 

Even if this were not true, why should we keep our best and send 
our worst, after all that France has done, and the Uttle that we have 
been able to contribute? It is no longer the time to say "we can do 
this or that without hardship." It is time to preach sacrifice, and to 
make sacrifice willingly, thankful that we may be allowed to deny 
ourselves. 

The need of this new ruling is emphasized by the speech of M. Tar- 
dieu, French High Commissioner to the United States, who said before 

135 



136 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [March 

the Southern Commercial Congress meeting in Baltimore: "I am 
aware of what you have done in order to reduce your domestic consump- 
tion and to increase your exports. But you must do more. You must 
do it, for it is a case of necessity. You must do it because it needs to 
be done. Ask all American citizens who stand unanimously for the 
National ideal determined by the President, whether they do not deem 
that the time has come for new restrictions in consumption, in order 
to win the war. Restrictions, however strict they may be, are neces- 
sary m order that over there on the front where your troops are be- 
ginning to fight, where the whole of the great American Army will be 
in time, the situation on which final victory depends may be unaltered. 
"We and our European allies, the British and the Italians, have been 
taught to suffer. Americans are now sharing our burden of blood and 
of death on the battle line, and we are requesting you in the rear to 
share as well our burden of suffering. In order that you and we may 
win the war, it is necessary that you here in America should all agree 
to a new effort and to new privations." 

Buying 50-50. There still seems to be some misunderstanding in 
regard to the purpose of the 50-50 order. The 50-50 rule was not 
made in order to sell other cereals, but to save wheat. It means "buy 
less wheat flour," not "buy as much as before and take the substitute 
besides." Complaints that one is paying twice too much for flour 
because the cost of the other cereals is counted in, are quite out of place. 
Neither are these substitutes to be hoarded or destroyed. It is sur- 
prising how many intelligent people have failed to grasp the real situa- 
tion and see how serious the shortage of wheat has become, and how 
necessary it is to conserve it in every way. 

Everyone who understands the situation should do her best to make 
it clear to any neighbors or friends who are without this knowledge. 



1918] COMMENT AND DISCUSSION 137 

COMMENT AND DISCUSSION 

THE PSYCHOLOGY OF "DO" AND "dON't" 

At a meeting of home economics leaders the proposal was once made 
that a faulty family dietary for a day should be set down and then 
analyzed and amended for the education of the house-wife. This 
suggestion met a chorus of protest, because "the psychology of 'Don't' 
is altogether bad." It seems that "Do" alone rouses to action. 

This attitude, general as it doubtless is, leads to serious reflection 
on the part of those who were brought up under a sterner educational 
system than now prevails; to them such a view is suggestive of the 
popularity of the "glad" stories, and of the denial that wrong exists in 
the world. Is it no longer true that "facing the facts" is the only 
straight-forward way? and do not courageous people now as in the 
past build on their mistakes more surely than on their successes? 

An excellent illustration of the older point of view is found in the re- 
port of Mrs. Johnson in the January number of the Journal on the 
failure of the marketing clubs of Pittsburgh, an article that might 
well be read by every woman who has pondered on the distribution of 
food to the housekeeper, and schemed to eliminate that hated person 
the "middleman." Here are set down all the causes for the rise, de- 
cline, and fall of thirty-five marketing clubs, the rise and glowing future 
reported, we hear, in every case, to a woman's club whose membership 
too easily believed that a new way of doing business had been discovered; 
the decline watched in silence by a few faithful, indomitable workers; 
the fall, in all probability, not reported to the clubs that had acclaimed 
the rise, and were perhaps by that time following some new star of 
promise. The presentation of such a report would be considered 
"depressing" and we should doubtless hear that the psychology of it is 
all wrong. Have we not heard of the colored preacher of "befor de 
wah" time who declined to allude in his sermon to the wickedness of 
chicken stealing because "it would t'row a coldness on de meetin'?" 

The history of the marketing clubs is a familiar story to those who 
have seen many stars rise and set. We must be forgiven for asking in 
some discouragement whether we are ever to get ahead on any program 
that calls for intelligent adjustment of the various functions of the 
home to the business and social life that goes on around us. Are we 
not to build stone upon stone a solid structure made of published records 
of the progress and results of such experiments? Not until we take 



138 THE joxjRNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [March 

them more seriously, not until we develop a sense of loyalty to social 
advancement which is quite above our personal sensitiveness as to what 
we call success or failure. "I have been connected with so many 
failures" said a woman of noble qualities as a social worker. Face all 
such with this truth: there is no failure in any honest attempt, if only 
full records be kept on which other efforts of the kind can be built. 

Such a report as Mrs. Johnson has given is a very valuable addition 
to our meager stock of social statistics, one that should be soberly 
studied by all women who propose to amend long established customs. 
Interest, enthusiasm, devotion to a good cause, are precious above 
measure; to prevent their waste on schemes that have been proved 
impossible, if we only knew it, and to prevent the discouragement that 
follows needless failure is a very important part of a social program. 
Projects that fail as well as those that succeed should be followed up 
and reported with absolute fidelity, and the causes of failure should be 
duly analyzed in order that others may not waste their efforts in a 
barren field. This is the method of the scientist. He may have spent 
a year on an experiment that brings him only "negative results," but 
he publishes these results if they can guide or help other workers. 

It means careful study of the ground before an enterprise is launched, 
with reading of all records of previous attempts, keeping record of 
each step and publishing report of results, whatever those results may be. 
Suppose this method had been followed regarding, for instance, experi- 
ments in cooperative housekeeping, we should not see every fifteen 
or twenty years a fresh trial of it by an enthusiastic band of women 
who have not the advantage of the lessons learned in a dozen former 
ventures. For, let it be" noted, these costly experiments are always a 
goodly number of years apart, so that those who promoted them have 
passed off the active stage, and there are no records! 

What of the food boycott? Was the principle involved either proved 
or discredited? No one seems to know. Will some one of long memory 
in these fields of social experiment bring out the whole list of the last 
half century "with historical and critical notes" to use the library 
expression? From every one of these so-called failures some kernel of 
valuable experience is to be extracted. 

Mary H. Abel. 



BOOKS AND LITERATURE 



Any book or periodical mentioned in this department may be obtained tlirough the 
JotjRNAL OF Home Economics if the Journal price is listed. 



The Food Problem. By Vernon Kellogg 

AND Alonzo E. Taylor. (Introduction 

by Herbert Hoover.) New York: The 

MacmiUan Company, 1917, pp. 213. 

S1.25. By mail of the Journal, $1-35. 

Though not a large volume, this is really 
two books in one; Part I deals with "The 
Problem and the Solution" and Part II 
with "The Technology of Food Use." 

The authors, both well known scientific 
men, have had unusual opportunities to 
become familiar with the food problem from 
their years abroad during the war and their 
connection with the Food .administration. 

Aside from its bearing upon war condi- 
tions, no book published recently has pre- 
sented the different phases of the food 
question in so tangible a form as this, or in 
a way so well adapted to use by all sorts of 
people. 

For example — It is invaluable for the 
speaker on Food Conservation. 

It might be used as a text-book, to unify 
other courses, even for advanced students 
in home economics. 

The chapters on the food situation, in 
this and other countries, should be read — 
and studied — by dealers and distributors 
of food. 

"The Physiology of Nutrition," chapter 
V, gives just the condensed information 
that every intelligent person needs, without 
the dry-as-dust details, which are often 
thought essential, but which repel rather 
than attract to further study. 

Doubtless there are many statements 
which like' railroad time-tables are "subject 
to change without notice." 

The conclusion, "Patriotism and Food" 
(see p. 123) wholly, or by single paragraphs 
and sentences, deserves to be used in general 



propaganda — perhaps even printed on the 
wrapping paper used in groceries and 
markets. 

.\nna Barrows. 

Food Demonstration Work for Congested City 
Neighborhoods. Charity Organization So- 
ciety, 105 East 22nd Street, New York 
City. 

Last spring the Advisory Committee on 
Home Economics of the New York Charity 
Organization Society, conducted an ex- 
perimental series of food demonstrations in 
various parts of New York City. Detailed 
records were kept of the attendance, the 
recipes prepared, the special diet recom- 
mendations made, the points which seemed 
to arouse the greatest interest in the audi- 
ence, suggestive comments made by the 
women, and criticisms by social workers 
who assisted in arranging for the demon- 
stration. 

This material has been presented in 
pamphlet form and is available in limited 
supply for distribution among home eco- 
nomics workers or others interested in popu- 
lar instruction through demonstration. 

The Baby's Food. By Isaac Abt, M.D., 
Philadelphia: W. B. Saunders & Co. 
1917, pp. 143. $1.25. 
"The Baby's Food" consists largely of a 
collection of recipes for preparing foods 
which may be used for young children or 
invaUds. While it is of considerable in- 
terest, because it contains recipes for pre- 
paring baby foods, especially those less 
familiar preparations, such as Finkelstein's 
Eiweiss Milk, Kellar's Malt Soup, and peg- 
nin milk, which are not easily available 
to the mother or practicing physician, the 
book is on the whole unfortunately named. 
139 



140 



THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS 



[March 



The title suggests not only methods of 
preparing food for the baby (from birth 
to one and one-half years), but conditions 
in which various foods may be used. In 
this it is disappointing. At least 50 per 
cent of the pages are devoted to recipes for 
dishes other than those usually considered 
suitable for babies. There are included also 
suggestive diet lists for children of different 
ages and conditions, as well as directions for 
various t\-pes of baths and packs. 

The Home Nurse's Handbook of Practical 
Nursing. By Charlotte A. Aikens. 
Philadelphia: W. B. Saunders Company, 
revised ed., 1917, pp. 303. SI. 50. 
This book has recently appeared in a re- 
vised and enlarged edition. Valuable ma- 
terial has been added, including notes on 
the care of premature infants, of aged, 
chronic, and tuberculous patients, and of 
persons suffering from mental disorders. 

This book, as the preface states, is de- 
signed for "the home girl or woman who 
seriously desires to do her best for the health 
of her own family, and as a working textbook 
for the 'practical' nurse or trained attend- 
ant." It contains much useful information, 
admirable in its practical good sense, and 
giving clear evidence of coming from well- 
interpreted personal experience. To any 
nurse, trained as well as untrained, such 
information can hardly fail to be profitable. 
It is a pity that the book, with all its 
merits, should be marred by poor organiza- 
tion of subject matter, and very seriously 
marred by lack of scientific accuracy. It 
seems incredible that the author should be 
ignorant of modern theories of disease trans- 
mission; yet ignorance of facts now well es- 
tablished seems the only adequate explana- 
tion of statements such as "The germs of 
disease of various kinds are always found in 
the air" (page 16), and "they [the disease 
germs] flourish wherever dirt is allowed to 
collect, .... and are readily carried 
about in the air by means of floating duct" 
(page 16). Transmi sion of pat ogenic 
germs by nose and mouth spray, now con- 
sidered one of the mo t important routes of 



infection, is entirely omitted from the list of 
common ways by which diseases are spread, 
although two routes included in the list, 
dust and soiled boots, are of minor impor- 
tance in disease transmission, if not entirely 
negligible. The distinction made between 
disease germs and "good" germs, is puerile. 
Some acquaintance with modem theories of 
immunity would result in a modification of 
statements on page 15. It is surprising also 
that detailed directions for formaldehyde 
fumigation are included, considering that 
the practice has now been abandoned as in- 
effectual by most progressive Boards of 
Health. Examples of erroneous and mis- 
leading statements might be multiplied. 

The "home nurse" or "practical nurse" is 
an unstandardized person. Some "practi- 
cal" nurses have had a sound though lim- 
ited training, and can safely perform the 
simpler technical nursing procedures, but 
it is clear that Miss Aikens has constantly in 
mind those with little or no technical train- 
ing. In the hands of such women this book 
may prove a real danger, since it includes 
directions for treatments that no untrained 
woman can perform without endangering her 
patient. An example is catheterization, a 
treatment that if improperly performed 
may cause acute and prolonged suffering. 
Yet full directions for catheterization are 
given, and they are not sufficiently safe- 
guarded by the statement that "few home 
nurses will have to use the catheter until 
asked to do so and shown how by a doctor or 
fully trained nurse." Moreover, the home 
nurse without restriction is directed to 
catheterize maternity patients if catheteri- 
zation is needed. 

Miss .'Mkens' book, in spite of its con- 
spicuous faults, contains much that is use- 
ful, sensible, and practical; it is clearly writ- 
ten, and the illustrations are among the 
best in any textbook on nursing. But it 
presents an element of real danger, and at 
best it does not fill our need for an adequate 
textbook on home care of the sick. 

Anne Hervey Strong, 
Department of Public Health Nursing, 
S mmons College. 



1918] BOOKS AND LITER_\TUIiE 141 

BOOKS RECEIVED 

Bugle Calls of Liberty. Our National Reader of Patriotism. By Gertrude \'an Duyn South- 
worth and Paul Mayo Paine. Syracuse, N. Y.: Iroquois Publishing Co., Inc., 1917, 
pp. 179. $0.60. Discount to schools purchasing si.x or more copies. 

Construetive Sming. Books III and IV . By Marj' E. Fuller. Indianapolis: Industrial Book 
and Equipment Co., 1917, pp. 90. $0.60. 

Cooking and Seu-ing Outline. By Fay Morgan Rudd and Francesca E. Kayser. Birming- 
ham: Tennessee Coal, Iron & Railroad Company, 1917, pp. 115. 

The Cost of Food, a Study in Dietaries. By Ellen H. Richards. Third ed., revised under 
the direction of John F. Norton. New York: John Wilev & Sons, Inc., 1917, pp. 137. 
SI.OO. 

Ttie Food of Working Women in Boston. Lucile Eaves, Ph.D. Boston: Women's Educational 
and Industrial Union, 1917, pp. 213. $1.00. 

The Housekeeper's Apple Book. By L. Gertrude MacKay. Boston: Little, Brown & Co., 
1917, pp. 122. $0.75. 

Manual for Army Cooks, 1916. Washington: Government Printing Office, 1917, pp. 254. 

Manual for the Quartermaster Corps, V. S. Army, 1916. Washington: Government Print- 
ing Office, 1917, 2 volumes and appendix, pp. 640, 594. (Contain? illustrations of 
kitchen car equipment and army field range, and tables showing army rations.) 

Marketing and Housework Manual. By S. .\gnes Donham. Boston: Little, Brown & Co., 
1917, pp. 235. $1.50. 

Society, Its Origin and Development. By Henr\' Kalloch Rowe, Ph.D. New York: Charles 
Scribner's Sons, 1916, pp. 371. SI. 50. 

PAMPHLETS RECEIVED 

Issued by the Department of the Interior: 

Lessons in Community and National Life. Community Leaflets Nos. 7, 8 and 9 (Bureau of 
Education). 

Garden Clubs in the Schools of Englewood , New Jersey. Charles Orchard Smith. Bulletin, 
1917, No. 26 (Bureau of Education). 
Issued by the U. S. Department of .Agriculture: 

Mimeographed leaflets in connection with home economics and extension work as follows: 
Com festivals; Sugar saving campaign; Home demonstration work — standardization 
of recipes; Suggested program for urban home demonstration work with special refer- 
ence to conservation; Fuel saving in the home; Conservation of clothing; Care of house 
and equipment; Home demonstration work — (1) Suggestions for use of canned and 
dried foods, (2) Suggestions for clothing, fuel, money, and strength conser\-ation cam- 
paigns, (3) Suggestions for food conservation campaigns under the leadership of a home 
demonstration agent. 

The Digestibility of the Dasheen. C. F. Langworthy and \. D. Holmes. Bulletin No. 612 
(States Relations Service). 

The Utilization of Waste Tomato Seeds atul Skins. Frank Rabak. Bulletin No. 632 (Bureau 
of Plant Industry). 

Report of the Chemist for the fiscal year ended June 30, 1917 (Bureau of Chemistry). 
Issued by the Department of Commerce: 

Materials for the Household. Circular of the Bureau of Standards. No. 70. 
Issued by the U. S. Public Health Service : 



142 THE joimNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [March 

Public Health Administration, with special reference to towns and rural communities. Paul 
Preble. Reprint No. 390 from the Public Health Reports. 

Typhoid Fever and Municipal Administration. A. W. Freeman. Reprint No. 395 from the 
Public Health Reports. 
Issued by the Federal Board for Vocational Education : 

Statement of Policies. Bulletin No. 1. .Annual report for 1917. 
Issued by Purdue University: 

Common Foods Grouped According to Chief Food Constituent. A kitchen card. 

Three Meals a Day. Helen Gertrude Gates. Leaflet No. 74. 

Home Canjiing. Roberta McNeill. Extension Bulletin Nos. 32 and 55. 

Home Drying of Vegetables and Fruits. Leila R. Gaddis. Leaflet No. 75. 

Helps on Gardening and Canning. H. J. Reed and Leila R. Gaddis. E.ttension Bulletin 
No. 54. 

Home Economics Study Classes. Roberta McNeill. Leaflet No. 54. 

Helps for Club Members — Sewing Clubs. Mary L. Matthews and LeUa R. Gaddis. Ex- 
tension Bulletin Nos. 23 and 37. 

Floors and Floor Coverings for the Farm Kitchen. Compiled by Mabel L. Harlan. Leaflet 
No. 69. 

Issued by the publishers listed : 
A number of leaflets containing suggestions and recipes for food substitutes. The Women's 

Municipal League of Boston. 
Food Supply in Families of Limited Means. Report written by Michael M. Davis, Jr. 

League for Preventive Work, Boston. 
Steam Pressure for Home Cooking. Alice E. Skinner and Ida E. Rigney. Home Economics 

Bulletin II. Kansas State .Agricultural College, Manhattan. 
Yeast Bread and its Variations. Jennie R. Bear. Bulletin No. 1731. University of Texas, 

Austin. 
How to Grow the Peanut and 105 Ways of Preparing it for Human Consumption. G. W. 

Carver. Bulletin No. 32. Tuskegee N. and I. Institute, Tuskegee, Ala. 
Bulletin, Military Hospitals Commission, Ottawa, Canada. November, 1917. 

BIBLIOGRAPHY OF HOME ECONOMICS 

PERIODICAL LITERATURE 

Since our 1917 issues contained few references on textiles and clothing we are devoting 
this entire bibliography to those topics, including articles that appeared throughout 1917 and 
part of 1916. 

Gener.\l 

Women and Clothes; What the Clubs .\re Doing in the Matter of Standardization. 
/. Home Ec, March, 1917. 

Tyranny of Fashion in War-Time. Liv. Age, April 14, 1917. 

Cost of Women's Clothes. /. Home Ec, November, 1917. 

Textile Industry and Relation to the War. Tex. World, April 21, 1917. 

Break the "Return Goods" Habit. Housewives' Mag., July, 1917. 

Carry it Home. Forecast, September, 1917. 

Special War Duty for Home Economics Teachers. Of. Bui., November 9, 1917. 

Wanted: A Clothes .'Vdministration. Lit. Digest, December 22. 

Psychology of the Woman Shopper. Lit. Digest, December 29. 



1918] BIBLIOGRAPHY OF HOME ECONOMICS 143 

New Textile Utilization of Alfalfa Fibre. Texlile Colorist, vol. 39, p. 19j. 
Successful Use of Nettle Fibres in Cloth Making. Texlile Colorist, vol. 39, p. 240. 
Paper Cloth for Soldiers. Texlile Colorist, vol. 39, p. 19. 

Dyes 

Dye Problem Amons the Entente Powers. Nature, July 19, 1917. 

Artificial Dyestuffs Used in the U. S. Special agents ser. 121. 

Manufacture of Aniline Dyes in America. Tex. World, 57, 59. 

Aladdin's Cave of the Dye Industry. Sci. Am., June 9, 1917. 

This :Man is Teaching .Americans How to Make Dyestuffs. Amcr. M., February, 1917. 

What is the Matter with the American Chemist? Harp., April, 1917. 

Natural Dyestuffs. Sci. Am. S., November 11, 1916. 

Back to the Vegetable Dye. Lit. Dig., May 6, 1916. 

Shortage of Dyestuffs. Nature, April 20, 1916. 

Dyes. Bus. Dig., 1: 260; 2: 260-61. 

.'\merican Made Dyestuffs Winning World Markets. Off. Bid., October 25, 1917, p. 5. 

Remarkable Growth of Domestic Dyes. Tex. World, January 13, 1917. 

Status of the Natural Dye Industry and Cotton Dyeing. Chas. R. Delaney; Testing 
of Quality of Bleached Goods, J. Merritt Matthews; Standardization of American Dye 
Stuffs, H. Gardner McKarrow. Color Trade Journal, January, 1918. 

Cotton 

Unprecedented Year in Cotton Goods. Tex. World, January 13, 1917. 

High Price for Cotton. Invest. Wkly., July 7, 1917. 

Typha Plant a Substitute for Cotton. Sci. Am. S., January 27, 1917. 

Two billion Dollar Cotton Crop. Forum, 44, September, 1917. 

Use of Cotton as a Wool Substitute. Tex. World, December 8, 1917. 

Cotton Yams and Cotton Fabrics in Demand. Dry Goods Economist, December 15, 
1917. 

Cotton Consumed in Manufacture of Explosives and Surgical Cotton. Textile Colorist, 
vol. 39, p. 68. 

Wool 

More sheep. Forecast, November, 1917. 

Wool. Bus. Dig., 1 : 503-04; 2 : 503-04. 

Wool Supply and the War's Demands. Tex. World, January 13, 1917. 

Yams Experience Unprecedented Year. Tex. World, January 13, 1917. 

Present and Future Wool Supply. Tex. World, December 9, 1916. 

Shall We Export Woolens; Plan for Wool Control; Wool Conservation. Tex. World 
Journal, December 1, 8, 15, 22, 1917. 

Wool Supply — The War's Demand. Tex. World Journal, January 13, 1918. 

Woolens and Worsteds. Dry Goods Economist, December 15, 22, 29, 1917. 

Silk and Wool Dress ^Materials. Dry Goods Economist, January 5, 1918. 

Scarcity of Yarn, Due to Lack of Manufacturing Facilities, not Shortage of Wool; Con- 
ditions in the Wool Industry; Use of Shoddy. Dry Goods Economist, January 12, 1918. 

The Future of Wool Raising. F. S. King, American Sheep Breeder, September, 1917. 

The Tailors Viewpoint. American Sheep Breeder, October, 1917. 

World Wool Demands. S. H. Hart, American Sheep Breeder, November, 1917. 

More Sheep, More Food, More Wool. Irving Chandler, Forecast, November, 1917. 

Why our Soldiers Wait for Clothes. Lit. Digest, January 12, 1918. 



144 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [March 

How War Reduces the Wool Supply. H. C. Alfred, Illustrated World, November, 1917. 
The Wool Industry. P. T. Cherington, Annals, November, 1917. 
Sheep Industry of the U. S. A. C. Bigelow, Annals, November, 1917. 

Silk 

Silk Worm Enlists. Housewives' Mag., October, 1917. 

Manufactured Silk. /. Home Ec, .August, 1917. 

E.xpect Spun Silk to be Used in Cartridge Bag Cloth. Tex. World Journal, December 1, 
1917. 

The Silk Situation. Dry Goods Economist, December 15, 1917. 

Silks for Spring. Dry Goods Economist, December 29, 1917. 

Characteristics of Various Well Known Market Silks. John Chittick, Woman's Wear, 
Januan,' II, 1918. 

Sport and Other Silks as Wool Substitutes. Bon Ton, February, 1918. 

Widths and Prices of the New Silk Materials. Bon Ton, February, 1918. 

Some of the Silks for 1918. Le Costume Royal, February, 1918. 

Production and Spinning of .'\rtificial Silk in the Air. Textile Colorist, vol. 39. 

.\ Method of Printing Silk Fabrics by Color Photography. Textile Colorist, vol. 39, p. 67. 

Linen 

Linens, Scarcity. Dry Goods Economist, December 15, 1917. 
Linen Situation. Dry Goods Economist, Januarj' 12, 1918. 

Leather 

Methods of Making .\rtificial Leather. Tex. World, February 24, 1917. 

Inch of Dress Costs $10,000,000 in Shoes. World's Work, 33, 589. 

Menace of the Shoe. Lit. Dig., May 12, 1917. 

Why Shoe Prices are High. Lit. Dig., January 20, 1917. 

Increased Cost of Women's Feet. Everybody's, January, 1916. 

Wooden-Soled Shoes in Germany. Sci. Am. S., August 19, 1916. 

Leather. Bus. Dig. 1: 260; 2: 260-61. 

Textile Designs 

War, Women and American Clothes. Eliz. King, Scribner's, November, 1917. 

Pomegranate in Design. School Arts Mag., November, 1917. 

Gilt Designs on Fabrics. Textile Colorist, vol. 39, p. 30. 

Fruit Designs. Dry Goods Economist, January 5, 1918. 

Finishing Dress Poplins. Textile Colorist, vol. 39, p. 271. 

Embroideries — Screen-panels. Inl'l. Studio, December, 1917. 

Methods of Making Batiks. G. W. Harting, House and Garden, October, 1917. 

TheNewMaterials;ParisBetter. Bon Tok, January, 1918. 

What will be Worn this Spring, 1918. Elena Mae Howe, Home Book of Fashions, Spring, 
1918. 

Materials for Southern Wear. Bon Ton, February, 1918. 

The Craft School and the Color Industrj-. M. D. C. Crawford, Color Trade Journal, 
January 1918. 

Color Standards in Economy of Te.\tiles. E. J. Redding, Color Trade Journal, January, 
1918. 



NEWS FROM THE FIELD 



News from the Food Administration. 
In Xovember the Food Conservation 
Division of the Food Administration was 
reorganized and the title changed to Home 
Conservation Division. Miss Sarah Field 
Splint, the editor of Today's Honseujife, who 
had acted as Dr. Wilbur's assistant from 
the early organization of the work in Food 
Conser\ation, was made director of the 
division. 

Since Home Conservation is a part of 
Home Economics instead of Home Eco- 
nomics a part of Conservation, the Home 
Economics section as such was disbanded, 
and Miss Lord, who was acting as chief, 
returned to her work at Pratt. Of the other 
members of the section. Miss Bevier, Miss 
Miller and Miss Bernhardt (who is looking 
after correspondence) became part of the 
Home Conservation Division, and Mrs. 
Norton and Miss Orr were transferred to 
the Public Information Department. 

Miss Elizabeth Sprague of the University 
of Kansas came to the Food .Administration 
the first of January to take the place of Miss 
Isabel Bevier, %vhose two months of leave 
of absence had e.xpired. Miss Sprague is to 
remain for an indefinite time. .Among 
many other duties she has done much of 
the planning for the College Courses in 
Food Conservation, has aided in formulat- 
ing the "voluntary ration," and is estab- 
lishing an experimental laboratory kitchen 
in connection with the Department of 
.Agriculture, where the use of the various 
"substitutes" may be tried out and the 
recipes standardized. Miss Harriet Edge- 
worth and Miss Ethel Loflin are acting 
as her laboratory assistants. 

Miss Jenny H. Snow, Supervisor of 
Household .Arts of the Chicago Public 
Schools, was called to the Food Adminis- 
tration for a week in January, for consulta- 



tion. Miss Katharine Blunt of the Uni- 
versity of Chicago is in Washington helping 
in the preparation of the Conservation 
Courses for Colleges, and Miss Frances 
Swain of Chicago Normal College, is assist- 
ing in the same work for a short time. 
Miss Elizabeth Miller returned to Chicago 
at the end of December. 

Miss Sarah -Arnold of Simmons College 
is on leave of absence, and is to be with the 
Food .Administration in Washington indefi- 
nitely. She is at present speaking for the 
Administration. 

On March 1 Miss Martha Van Rensselaer 
of Cornell University, who has maintained 
a close connection with the Food Adminis- 
tration from its beginning, assumed the 
position of Director of the Food Conserva- 
tion Division, to take the place of Miss 
Splint, whose duties have called her back 
to New York. 

A War Program. The war has laid sud- 
den and unexpected demands upon the 
organizations that are engaged in work for 
mothers and little children. Some are 
hampered by lack of funds, practically all 
by the scarcity of doctors and nurses. The 
increased responsibilities are being faced 
with the courage that comes of the convic- 
tion that no more patriotic service can be 
rendered just now than through the main- 
tenance of the integrity of the home and 
the conservation of the health of the children 
of today — the citizens of tomorrow. 

The program of the Eighth Annual Meet- 
ing of the American Association of Study 
and Prevention of Infant Mortality, held 
at Richmond, Va., October 15-17, 1917, 
under the presidency of Dr. W. C. Wood- 
ward of Washington was arranged with 
special reference to these needs. The meet- 
ing was a practical, get-together conference 

145 



146 



THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS 



[March 



of workers in the field of infant and mater- 
nal welfare. Representatives were present 
from 24 States, the District of Columbia 
and Canada. 

The interest created by the courses on 
maternal, infant, and child care given by 
the Home Economics Departments of many 
of the state colleges and universities, and 
the corresponding demand for standard 
courses in such care, which would measure 
up to the highest ideals of specialists and 
research workers, was brought out in the 
session on Public School Education, pre- 
sided over by Mrs. Norton, the Editor of 
the Journal, in the absence of Mrs. Henri- 
etta W. Calvin, Chairman of the Section. 
The summaries of papers by Miss Alice 
Ravenhill on the "Education of College 
and University Women for Giving Instruc- 
tion in the Care of the Health of Infants, 
Children, and Mothers," and by Miss Mary 
H. Mayer, on "Extension Courses in Public 
Schools for .\dult Women in the Care and 
Feeding of Children" were followed by 
discussions by Mrs. Max West of the Chil- 
dren's Bureau, Washington, and others. 
On the recommendation of the Section, a 
committee, with Mrs. Max West as Chair- 
man, has been appointed by the .\ssociation, 
to formulate courses in prenatal, maternal, 
infant, and child care, for the use of home 
economics teachers, colleges, universities, 
normal schools, graded schools, clubs, and 
classes. 



Backing up the Boy in Khaki. The 
American Red Cross, under an agreement 
reached with the Y. M. C. A., has completed 
plans for a standardized recreation hut to 
be established at base hospitals and several 
.\merican training camps in France. Under 
the agreement, the Red Cross is to furnish 
the building and all the equipment and 
the Y. M. C. A. is to combine its recreational 
facilities with the Red Cross in operating 
the hut. Both organizations are to be 
represented by a staff at each hut. 

The buildings are one story weather- 
proof structures and contain a social hall 



and a bilUard and pool room. The social hall 
is used as a lounging, reading, general 
recreation room, and for entertainments of 
various sorts. It seats 600 people com- 
fortably. Chess, checkers, and other 
indoor games add to its attractions. A 
piano and victrola with .American records 
are also parts of the equipment. 

The billiard room contains one billiard 
and one pool table with a complete assort- 
ment of cues and necessary accessories. 
Proper lighting facilities are a part of the 
equipment, thus assuring "all the comforts 
of home" to the followers of this sport. 

The main entrance to the building opens 
on a reception hall, with adjoining offices 
for the Red Cross and Y. M. C. A. attend- 
ants. Here information of all kinds 
may be obtained and the details of the 
management worked out. 

.At the other end of the building is the 
canteen, operated by the Y. M. C. .V. 
Tobacco, sweets, and \'arious other articles 
will be sold here. To the rear of the canteen 
is a dining room., kitchen, and sleeping 
rooms for the use of nurses as a club. They 
are supplied with comfortable furniture, 
writing tables, piano, magazines and other 
reading material. 

The Y. M. C. A. is arranging a series of 
lectures, musical and other entertainments, 
which will bring some of the best talent in 
America to these huts. Besides furnishing 
all the equipment the Red Cross has also 
supplied cinema and weekly series of films 
to be shown in the social hall certain nights 
a week, and has also installed a circulating 
library of selected books. 

The Red Cross also takes care of the 
recreational wants of those patients in the 
hospital who are unable to visit the recrea- 
tional hut. It distributes free to the pa- 
tients tobacco, cigarettes, reading and writ- 
ing material, and has in.stalled phonographs 
in the wards. 

Through the joint operation of these huts 
by the Red Cross and the Y. M. C. A., 
America's convalescent soldiers and training 
camp students will be able to enjoy the 
benefits and facilities of both organizations. 



Vol. X, No. 4 April, 1918 

THE 

Journal of Home Economics 

For those interested in Homemaking, Institution Management, 
and Educational Work in Home Economics 

Mrs Auce P Norton Editor Keivr.xb E.lixLowiti, Minasln^ EdUor 

Edilmint Board 
Mrs. Mary H. Abel Anna Barrows C. F. LANGWORtHY Isabel Ely Lord Katharine Blunt 

Ex-OKcio JfcmJcrs— Catharine J. JUcKay, President American Home Economics Association 
Emma H. Gunther, Chairman Institution Economics Section 
RuiH Wheeler, Cliairman Science Section 
Neale S. Knowles, Chairman Extension Education Section 

Coltahoralors— T:\ie Officers, Members of the Council, and Advisors 



CONTENTS 

Grace at Table Frnntispinc 

A Study of the Cost of Living of Wokkinu Class Families i.n Koxm rv, Mass 

Sara Henry SI i Irs 147 

The Home Economics Teacher in the Rural School ll<lni Graham 157 

Household Physics and Practice Cottage Work A". /.. Slcdc 162 

How Much Food Does it Take to Supply Us With the Calciim \\i: Xi.id? MiinitC. Dcnlini ION 

Conserving Woman Power in W,\R Time Mary Mdm n<,i>l;,ns \1\ 

The Professional Services of Helen Kinne I'-l 

For the Homemaker 

A Lesson in Economical Buying '''•''■''^ Cray 111 

Household Thrift C. F. Sloddard LSI 

The Wheat Flour Allowance I'^-^ 

Until the Next Harvest '''^"' 

Editorial '' ' 

Books and Literature ^^^ 

Bibliography of Home Economics 1^1 

News from THE Field l-*' 



THE Journal OP Houe EcoNomcs is published monthly by the American Home Economics Association. 

J2.00AYEAR. FOREIGN $2.35. CANADIAN $2.20. SINGLE COPIES 25 CENTS 

HOW TO REMIT Remittances should be sent by Check. Express Order or Postal Money Order, payable to the. 
Amciican Home Economics Association. Currency, unless mailed in a registered letter, is at the senders risk. 

NOTICE. When payment is made by check no receipt wiU be sent unless requested. 

CHANGE IN ADDRESS. Notice of change in address should be sent Two Weeks before the date of issue on which 
the change is to take effect. The subscriber's Old .^ddre5s should be clearly indicated in addition to the New Address. 

AMERICAN HOME ECONOMICS ASSOCIATION 1211 Cathedral St., B.vltimore, Md. 

Entered as second class matter at the Baltimore Post OfBce 

The JotnuJAL OF Home Economics is on sale at John Wanamaker's, Philadelphia; The Old Corner Book Store, Boston: 

A. C. McClure'j, ChicaKo; Baltimore News Company, Baltimore; Woodward and Lothrop, Washington 



GRACE AT TABLE 

1918 

Here we gather, dear All-Father, 
Round Thy table to be Jed. 
'Tis Thy gift, our daily bread. 

As we gather to be fed 

Nations plead for daily bread, — 

Fighting son and anguished mother, 

Orphaned children, — all together 

Pray to Thee for daily bread. 

At Thy common table. Father, 

Ask we all for daily bread. 

God. All-Father, hear our prayer! 
Move our hearts and minds to share 
With Thy children at Thy table 
This Thy gift of daily bread, - 
Sacred gift of daily bread! 

Lest they perish, sun.fl and eager 
Share we now our daily bread. 
Give through us, great All-Father, 
To Thy children, daily bread! 



Sarah Louise Arnold. 



THE 

Journal of Home Economics 

Vol. X APRIL, 1918 No. 4 

A STUDY OF THE COST OF LIVING OF WORKING CLASS 
FAMILIES IN ROXBURY, MASS. 

SARA HENRY STITES 
Deparlment of Economics, Simmons College, Boston 

Approximately three quarters of the families of the United States 
belong to the so called "working" or "wage earning" class. Certainly 
in view of their numbers, the maintenance of a decent standard of Kv- 
ing by this class of families is a matter of the greatest importance to the 
welfare of the country. Especially at this time, when the United States 
is engaged in the most formidable war of history, it is the part of wis- 
dom to see to it that all members of the community are kept in the high- 
est possible state of efificiency. This year, more than ever before, it is 
true that underfed, poorly clothed, inadequately sheltered, and mentally 
harrassed men and women, are, economically speaking "undesirable 
citizens." What are now the hving conditions of ordinary working 
class famihes in the United States? How much money do they spend 
in the effort to satisfy their wants? Is the money used in the wsest 
possible manner? Is the amount expended sufficient, in the present 
state of prices, to supply actual necessities? These are the questions 
which must be answered at once if the nation is to be prepared for a con- 
flict that will call forth all the powers of a strong and healthy citizenry. 

It was with the object of obtaining information that might, in some 
small degree, aid those who wish to know the facts with regard to stand- 
ards of lixing among working class families in Boston, that the investi- 
gation, the methods and results of which are outlined in the following 
pages, was undertaken. As the group that did the field work was small 

147 



148 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [April 

and the time short, the scope of the inquiry was necessarily confined to 
one section of the city — the district known as Roxbury. However, 
since this part of Boston contains a not inconsiderable portion of the 
total population of the city — about 17 per cent of it, in fact — and since 
the district is settled largely by Enghsh speaking people of the working 
class, the facts gathered may perhaps be valuable in arriving at a con- 
clusion regarding the abiUty of working class famihes to maintain an 
"American" standard of li\ang in Boston as a whole. 

In February 1917, through the kindness of various social agencies in 
Roxbury,' the four Simmons students^ who made the investigation 
were introduced to famihes in that district who said that they were 
wilhng to supply the information desired. From these, sixteen were 
selected for study. The period during which they were under observa- 
tion varied from three weeks in one case to ten weeks in several others, 
but most of the famihes were visited for a term of six to eight weeks. 
Each housewife kept a careful record of all her expenditures, jotting 
down the items, with memoranda of the amounts bought and prices 
paid. These accounts were kept in an ordinary blank book, and no 
effort was made to classify the objects of expenditure. Regular weekly 
or semi-weekly calls were made by the students ha\dng charge of the 
investigation, and at these times the housewives' records were examined, 
and possible errors and omissions rectified. The data thus obtained 
were finally transferred to the students' own classified lists showing 
the weekly expenditures of each family for the various items of the 
budget. In this way, during the two months of observation, the inves- 
tigators were able to obtain information upon which they could base 
fairly definite conclusions as to the standard of H\ang of each family 
and the cost of such a standard with regard to food and housing. The 
data also threw some fight upon the question of operating ex'penses, 
and the amount available for "sundries," i.e., for doctors' and dentists' 
bills, for insurance, for books and papers, for recreation, and other 
similarly important purposes. With regard to costs and standards of 

' Norfolk House Centre, the Associated Charities-Roxbury branch, the Social Service 
Department of the Children's Hospital, and the Cecelian Guild. In particular the investi- 
gators acknowledge vvith gratitude the cooperation and assistance of Miss Emma Taft Knight 
and Mrs. Roy Cushman of the Norfolk House Centre, and of Miss M. Isabelle Tessier of the 
Social Service Department of the Children's Hospital. 

- Miss Ruth Corwin, Miss Katherine Hagerty, Miss Dorothea Rice, Miss Margaret 
Stevens. 



1918] 



COST OF LRTN'G IN EOXBURY, M.\SS. 



149 



clothing, the facts are not sufficiently definite or detailed to warrant 
more than the barest generalization. 

Research by the United States Bureau of Labor and by others' inter- 
ested in the question of the cost of living in this country led to the con- 
clusion that in the early years of this century a normal family consisting 
of father, mother, and three to five children, and living in an urban 
community must have an income of at least $750.00 in order to maintain 
without incurring debt a fair standard of living. The average family 
spent this income in about the following proportions: 



FOOD 


RENT 


CLOTHING 


FUEL AND UGHT 


SUNDRIES 


per cent 
41 


per cent 

17 


per cent 

14 


per cent 

5 


per cent 
23 



In the hands of the average housewife, 41 per cent of a $750.00 in- 
come would, fifteen years ago, suffice to provide food for the "normal" 
family. The sum — about $5.90 per week — would procure the minimum 
of wholesome food necessary for the efficient and healthful develop- 
ment of each member of the family. Similarly, the amounts spent for 
housing and the other items of the budget might possibly procure for 
the family the indispensable minimum in each respect. In other words, 
$750.00 was ten or fiiteen years ago, a large enough sum to provide a 
family of father, mother, and three to five young children with the 
necessities for the maintenance of a fair standard of living, provided 
that the money was wisely expended. 

What were the possibihties in the spring of 1917? What sum should 
the family spend if it is to be adequately fed? What sum does it actu- 
ally spend for food? Is the typical working class family undernourished 
to a degree dangerous to the welfare of the community? Does the high 
cost of food result in a lowering of the standards with regard to other 
necessities — housing, clothing, etc? As a very small beginning of a com- 

' "The Cost of Living and Retail Prices of Food." Eighteenth Annual Report of the 
United States Commissioner of Labor, 1903. 

"The Standard of Living in New York City." Robert Coit Chapin, Charities Publica- 
tion Committee, N. Y. 1909. 

"Family Monographs, the History of Twenty-Four Families Living in the Middle West 
Side of New York City." Elza G. Herzfeld, James Kempen Printing Co. N. Y. 1905. 

"Wage Earners Budgets." Louise Boland More, Henry Holt & Co. N. Y. 1907. 

"The Standard of Living Among the Industrial People of .\merica." Frank Hatch 
Streightoff. Houghton Mifflin Co. 1911. 



150 THE .TOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [April 

plete answer to these questions if asked in regard to Boston, the facts 
concerning a few families in Roxbury seem to be worthy of examination. 

Professor Alice F. Blood, Director of the School of Household Eco- 
nomics at Simmons College, has reached the conclusion" that in the 
early part of the winter of 1916-1917 a family consisting of two adults 
and four young children — altogether amounting to four units by the 
Atwater Scale^ — could barely satisfy their dietary needs by expending 
the sum of $8.00 per week. The weekly cost of food per unit would 
therefore amount to $2.00, which equals about 28| cents per day. 

Thus making no allowance for the rise in prices of other items, and 
considering merely the necessity of spending more for a minimum ration, 
we are justified in saying that the smallest income upon which a normal 
family could maintain a proper standard of living in a city like Boston 
was $850.00 per year — i.e., reckoning fifty working weeks per year — 
$17.00 per week; and if the amount spent for food was to be a proper 
proportion of the total expenditures, the family income in the latter 
part of 1916 should have been at least $1000.00. 

During the winter of 1916-1917 food prices continued to rise. By 
the end of April, 1917, the rations recommended by Professor Blood 
would have cost the family considerably more than $8.00 per week. 
In Roxbury the families whose budgets were collected would have had 
to pay $10.93 per week"^ in order to secure all the food materials included 
in Professor Blood's list. In other words, the cost of the weekly mini- 
mum ration had increased by more than one-third. By the end of 

* Unpublished monograph. December, 1916. 

' The .'Vtwater table of units is as follows: 

Vni:s 

Man, 1 7 years and over 1.0 

Woman, 16 years and over '. 0.8 

Boy, 16 years 0.9 

Boy, 12-15 years 0.8 

Boy, 10-11 years 0.6 

Girl, 14-15 years 0.7 

Girl, 10-13 years 0.6 

Child, 6-9 years 0.5 

Child, 2-5 years 0.4 

Child, under 2 years 0.3 

(Bulletin No. 46, U. S. Dept. of Agriculture.) 

'' .-Average of prices actually paid by families under investigation verified by visits to Rox- 
bury stores. At present — February, 1918 — the articles included in Professor Blood's list 
could not be bought in Roxbury for a total sum of less than $11.18, slightly more than the 
sum necessary last spring. 



1918] COST OF LIVING IN ROXBURY, MASS. 151 

April, 1917, therefore, the simplest diet that would furnish adequate 
nourishment cost nearly $2.75 per unit per week. A family of father, 
mother, and four small children should have spent for food at that 
date a sum that would amount to more than $568.00 per year. In 
order to have proper food and also to meet the other expenses of a 
normal existence, the family would have had to spend at least $1100.00 
per year. The weekly income, therefore, should have been about $22.00. 
It is hardly necessary to state that the majority of working class fami- 
lies have not such an amount of money at their command. For that 
very reason it is important to ascertain in as many cases as possible what 
their total expenditures really are, what proportion goes for food, to 
what extent the amount paid for food varies from the amount which 
should be expended if the family is to be properly fed. 

Examination of the Roxbury budgets reveals the fact that at least 
eleven of the sixteen families were underfed. The amounts spent on 
food by these eleven households varied from a sum 40 per cent short of 
an amount that would have purchased a living ration, to an amount 
only 2 per cent short of that desirable minimum. Two famiUes of this 
group spent less than two-thirds of the amount that should have been 
at their command for food purchases, and four families had only about 
three-quarters of the sum they needed. The average sum spent by 
these eleven families was about 20 per cent less than it should have been. 
In not very vi\'id contrast to this state of affairs the budgets of four 
other famiUes show a slight excess of expenditure for food, an excess 
averaging about 6 per cent more than the sum necessary to buy an 
adequate supply. One family out of the group of sixteen spent ap- 
pro.ximately the correct amount. 

The cause of the conditions summarized in the preceding paragraph 
was not that the famihes in question were extremely large, nor that 
their purchasing power was less than is usual in their class. Omitting 
from the calculation five families whose total incomes and expenditures 
were uncertain because of the presence of adults who contributed to 
the general fund only part of their wages, we find that the average family 
numbered 4.7 units, as measured by the Atwater scale. This is a group 
not very much larger than that which is usually regarded as normal. 
An income of over $1000 a year was implied by the sum total that it 
cost this average family to live — a sum amounting to about $20 a week. 
Obviously these families were in a position to spend as much as families 
of their class usually have at their disposal. They actually did spend 



152 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [April 

an average of $11.33 per week for food in March and April of last year, 
and although this was $1.50 less than the sum necessary to buy sufficient 
nourishment, it absorbed 56 per cent of their total resources. We are 
forced to the conclusion that if a living income is one of which not more 
than 40-45 per cent must be spent on food, then in these times even 
$1000 a year is not adequate to maintain an ordinary working class 
family in Boston. 

Obviously, if an unduly large percentage of the total outlay of a 
family goes for food, a smaller proportion than is desirable remains for 
the purchase of the other necessities and comforts of life. Taking the 
Roxbury group as a whole' we found that of the average total outlay 
(about $20.16 per week) $2.50, or 12.4 per cent was paid out in rent — 
a smaller proportion of total expenditures than is considered desirable. 
It was only the eight smallest famihes, the average size of which was 
about that of the smallest family usually considered as "normal," that 
could afford adequate housing. These paid an average rent of $2.53 
per week — i.e., about 16 per cent of their living costs — not far from the 
normal proportion.' For this simi, approximately $11.00 per month, 
they secured four rooms — an adequate amount of space, if we take the 
minimum to be one room to every one and one-half persons. These fam- 
ilies evidently were not obliged to meet their high food costs by economiz- 
ing to any serious extent in the matter of shelter, since there were other 
lines along which retrenchments could more easily be made. It was 
the larger families having five or more children, families obliged to cut 
down their expenditures in every direction, who were not properly 
housed. In order to economize they either Hved in crowded quarters, 
or moved to larger but more undesirable apartments in cheaper neigh- 
borhoods. As a matter of fact, the rents paid by all the sixteen famihes 
were surprisingly uniform in amount. With one or two exceptions 
they were all between $2.00 and $2.75 per week. Two of the largest 
families paid even less rent than the average. 

Ventilation and Hght in the houses occupied by these famihes was 
usually adequate for the maintenance of the health of the inmates. 
Only two families had a dark room, situated between the kitchen and 
the living room of a five room apartment, and used as a bedroom. Eight 
famihes — half of the group — lived in "three decker" apartment houses, 
having light and air in front and back. Others lived in two-family or 

' Omitting five families mentioned on p. 151. 
» See p. 149. 



1918] COST OF LIVING IN ROXBURY, MASS. 153 

double houses and had some yard space. Three lived in detached 
houses, each with a yard, and air and light on all sides. 

Every family, with one exception, had a private toUet in its apartment 
or house; one used a toilet in the cellar, in common with two other house- 
holds. In some instances the toilet was practically a closet, without 
outside hght or air, and separated from one of the rooms — often the 
kitchen — only by a curtain. Only two families had their own bath 
rooms, all had running water in their apartments, but only one had hot 
water. The rest heated water on the stove. Three famihes had sta- 
tionary tubs for washing clothes and all had space out of doors for drying 
clothes. 

Space for storing was limited, of course. Nearly all the families lived 
in houses with cellars, but rarely used these cellars. Food was never 
stored there, for fear of dampness and of depredations by other inmates 
of the house. Most of the families had a pantry or closet opening into 
the kitchen, where food and kitchen utensils were kept. 

To sum up — we may say that the small family in Roxbury does not 
pay for shelter an excessive proportion of its income. Larger famihes 
are likely to suffer deprivations in the matter of space in which to live. 
In most cases ventilation and sanitation are fairly good. On the other 
hand, a serious defect that is practically universal in its occurrence, and 
is important because of its effect in increasing living expenses, is lack 
of space for keeping household supplies. 

For light and fuel the family budgets under consideration showed an 
average weekly expenditure of about $1.27 — approximately 6.6 per 
cent of the total outlay for all purposes. As a rule the kitchen stove 
was the only means of heating the dwelUng, at any rate during the 
greater part of the year. Coal was generally used as fuel. Five families 
supplemented the services of the coal stove with those of a portable 
gas stove, and one family used a kerosene stove for hght cooking. Only 
five or six families bought kindling; the rest collected it wherever they 
could find suitable material. One, for example, whose proportionate 
expenditure for coal was considerably below the average, effected this 
economy by the use of wood procured from an old barn falling to ruin 
not far away from their house. This wood was used, not only for kin- 
dling, but even instead of coal for the maintenance of the fire throughout 
the day. The average amount of coal used by the family of ordinary 
size would seem to be in the neighborhood of 150 pounds per week. 



154 THE JOtTRNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [April 

Three families bought the year's supply of coal eariy in the autumn, 
paying $7.25 per ton and thereby keeping down costs, as later in the 
winter the price per ton rose considerably. Most of the famihes, how- 
ever, bought by the hundred weight, paying 60 to 65 cents per hun- 
dred weight, or by the bag, paying 17 cents per bag of 25 pounds. A 
ton of coal bought by the bag cost $13.60. Thus families bupng their 
fuel in these small quantities paid more than $6.00 per ton in excess of 
the price paid by the few families who had the funds and the storage 
facihties to buy in large quantities before the winter set in. 

For lighting purposes sk families, for the most part those having 
the hardest struggle to make ends meet, use kerosene only. Six use 
both kerosene and gas; three use gas only; and one uses gas supple- 
mented by candles. 

In conclusion, it may be said that, with the greatest economy possible 
for families situated as are those of this particular group, 6.5 per cent 
of the total expenditure must go for fuel and light, i.e., 1 .5 per cent more 
than the average discovered to be "normal" for such families fifteen 
years ago.^ The cost of fuel and light has increased to such an extent 
that more money must be spent to secure a minimum amount of heat 
and illumination. 

Facts in regard to costs and standards of clothing among the families 
interrogated were difficult to obtain. Some of them spent nothing for 
clothing during the weeks of the investigation. One family apparently 
spends nothing the year around, and is clothed entirely at the expense 
of a relative. In the circumstances, the investigators were forced to 
depend largely upon the general information given them by the women 
for the facts which enabled them to draw conclusions. Only a few 
families bought new clothing, and even these bought the more expensive 
articles — men's outfits, for example — on the installment plan. Thus 
one man, the nature of whose work required him to dress comparatively 
well, bought practically all his apparel at a wholesale store, and paid 
the store $3.00 every two weeks throughout the year. In another family, 
most of whose clothing was bought new, the overworked mother made 
almost everything — even the hats worn by herself and the children. 
Nearly all of the famihes bought the greater part of their clothing at 
second hand, patronizing church rummage sales, the Morgan memorial, 
or regular second hand clothing shops. In every household garments 

' Cf. p. 149. 



1918] COST OF LIVING IN ROXBURY, MASS. 155 

were mended and made over until they were entirely worn out. All 
these de\'ices for saving were part of the everyday routine, evidently 
made obligatory by the high cost of food and other absolutely necessary 
commodities. Most of the women said, too, that whenever special 
economy was necessary they cut down still further their expenditures for 
clothing, lessening the outlay for food only when further retrenchment 
in the matter of clothing was impossible. 

Under the heading "Sundries" the investigators kept a record of the 
expenditures of each of the sixteen families for household furnishings, 
education, health, insurance, dues and contributions, recreation, and 
other miscellaneous purposes. 

For household furnishings small sums, averaging only a few cents a 
week, were spent, and the usual objects of the expenditure were cleaning 
materials and kitchen utensils. 

Fourteen families each bought a daily paper, and occasionally spent 
a few cents on post cards or other stationery. Two families spent noth- 
ing at all for these objects during the weeks in which their accounts 
were examined. Only one family subscribed for a periodical, a religious 
magazine costing fifty cents a year. 

Expenditures for health were very small, and it was a matter of in- 
terest to observ'e that no money was wasted on patent medicines. 
Three families spent nothing at all for the maintenance of their health 
during the weeks of the investigation. Most of the families, however, 
spent an average of a few cents a week for drugs and for treatment. Sev- 
eral sent their children to the Forsythe Dental Infirmary and paid small 
sums for the services rendered them there. One or two others availed 
themselves of the opportunities offered by hospital dispensaries for 
treatment of chronic troubles, as in the case of a child who had suffered 
from infantile paralysis. 

Four of the families reported nothing given as dues or contributions. 
The others all made a weekly contribution to the church, the amount 
varying from 2 cents to 40 or 50, according to the size and to the means 
of the family. The usual amount was 20 or 30 cents. Only two of 
the families made regular payments to a labor union. Several of the 
women paid small dues to clubs connected with the social settlements. 

The amount spent on recreation was pitifully small. Ten of the fam- 
ilies spent nothing at all for this purpose during the weeks of our ac- 
quaintance with them. The other six groups went occasionally to the 



156 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [April 

moving picture theatres — two families, in fact, went every week. But 
most of the families relied for recreation upon free entertainments of 
various kinds, including those given at the settlements and churches. 

A large proportion of the outlay for miscellaneous objects by the 
majority of the families consisted of carfare for those members who 
live some distance from the place of their daily work. A nimiber of them 
were obliged to lay aside for this purpose at least 60 cents a week. 

Such expenditures as those that have just been described leave very 
little money for other things of a more frivolous nature. Some of the 
men and the older children had 50 cents a week as "spending money" 
and rendered no account of the objects for which the money went. 
Now and then a woman indulged in candy or a "soda." Most of the 
miscellaneous objects, however, for which were spent the sums recorded 
in the last column of the family budgets were really necessities. 

It must be admitted that there is little need for urging greater economy 
upon the majority of these people. Their purchases, inadequate as they 
often are to satisfy their needs, are made, for the most part, with a 
thoughtfulness that is almost pathetic. It is the eating of the cheaper 
cuts of meat, and the spotted vegetables sold by the dealer at special 
rates in order to be rid of them; it is the wearing of second-hand clothing, 
the crowding together in small dwellings, and the abstinence from amuse- 
ments that enables some of these families to exist at all. A trained dieti- 
tian might in certain cases advise the purchase of fewer doughnuts or 
crackers and more vegetables, or do away with the small expenditures 
for cake or candy, but even she could not administer the sums that sev- 
eral of our familes have to spend for food in such a way as to supply 
them with proper nourishment. There is, it must be admitted, waste 
in the expenditure of these small incomes, but the waste is the fault of 
society rather than of the individual. The purchase of food and fuel 
in small quantities, for instance, and, consequently, buying at greatly 
increased cost, is inevitable as long as the funds to be spent are so small 
as to prohibit large purchases at any one time or the occupancy of 
dwellings large enough to allow storage of supplies. Do what she can, 
then, the housewife cannot provide properly for even a small family — 
her husband, herself, and two or three young children — unless she has at 
least $20.00 to spend each week. Considerably more — at least $24.00 
— should be at the disposal of the ordinary workingman's family, which 
is apt to have four or five children, and often more. 



1918] HOME ECONOMICS TEACHER EN THE RURAL SCHOOL 157 

THE HOME ECONOMICS TEACHER IN THE RURAL SCHOOL 

HELEN GRAHAM 

Director of Home Economics, Louisiana Industrial Institute, Ruslon 

This is the day of the rural school, and the great progress made in these 
schools in the past few years has been remarkable. It is making itself 
felt in the higher institutions of learning in that their standards have 
been raised because of the more thorough preparation in the public 
school. It is also resulting in the general social and economic improve- 
ment of the rural community. Another agency has been a strong move- 
ment among rural educators to make of the school the social center of 
the commvmity, and no one person could do more toward carrying out 
this aim than the right kind of a home economics teacher. It is this 
teacher and her work that will be discussed in this paper. 

The teacher will be considered from two standpoints: first her personal 
requirements, or the characteristics of a successful rural home economics 
teacher, and second, her field of usefulness — the things that she can do 
to meet some of the problems both of the school and the community. 

Her first requisite should be a thorough knowledge of her subject, both 
practical and theoretical. She should be just as able to cook a good 
wholesome meal with the minimum of time and labor, as she is to find 
out the number of grams of protein and the number of calories of heat 
to be gotten from it. She should be just as capable of making sausage 
and cooking "boiled dinner" as of making the three accepted types of 
salad dressing or an angel food cake — and just as well able and as inter- 
ested to help a mother to make over a last winter 's worsted dress for her 
daughter in school as to design and make an elaborate evening gown of 
georgette crepe and chiffon. She must know and be able to do anything 
in the way of modern home industries that any one in the community 
can do and much that they cannot do, without parading her knowledge 
or abihty. 

This rural home economics teacher must know something about rural 
community life and be able to adapt herself to it without feeling a sense 
of superiority or acting the part of the tender-foot. Otherwise she will 
separate herself from her students and her people. They will feel that 
she is not one of them — that she is different — has been brought up un- 
der other conditions and cannot appreciate them and their ideas of life. 
So her influence there would be crippled. She need not hope to bring 



158 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [April 

about reforms in the home or social life of the community by criticising 
their customs, but by having them discover for themselves the advan- 
tages of better methods of doing things. 

She must never feel that she is too big for the place, that she is wasting 
her sweetness, her culture, on the rural village, for if that is her attitude 
she will soon find that for some reason she is not fiUing the place, that 
it is too big for her. For indeed it is a much harder place to fill than the 
same work in a town or city school. There is the difficulty of getting 
material to work with in a very hmited market, the hardship of an in- 
adequate equipment often, and, worse than either, there is sometimes a 
sentiment in a small place against teaching anything so far from the 
three " R 's " as home economics. They refuse to accept " Right Li\ing " 
as the fourth "R" as the home economics teacher is trying to present 
it. So she must be able to create a demand for what she has to offer, 
to prove that such training is valuable for the best development of the 
race. Perhaps it will take a whole school year to make home economics 
popular in a town; then surely the teacher would need to go back to the 
same school at least the second year when her work has only been be- 
gun in the first. Having the interest of the community at heart, she 
will want to see that her plans are carried out and her own work and poU- 
cies completed. Often when I ask students entering the Home Econom- 
ics department at L. I. I. what home economics work they have taken 
in the high school from which they graduated, they have occasion to 
mention something about the three teachers they have had in three or 
four years. 

Another important characteristic of this model rural home economics 
teacher is the ability to do the best possible work with the equipment 
and material that may be had under the circumstances — not the material 
and equipment on hand, necessarily, for it may be that she could get 
better things and more sanitary laboratory conditions by exerting her- 
self a httle. In that case it would cease to be a virtue to just "get along " 
with what one has on hand when she could do better. On the other hand 
our young teacher is Hkely to feel that her rural school laboratories must 
be exactly on the plan of the ones at the school from which she graduated, 
and if she finds them entirely different she may take any one of several 
attitudes according to her disposition. She may feel discouraged and de- 
cide that with such equipment she could not be expected to do very much; 
so she will be content to do home economics on a very small scale. If 
she is very ambitious, but impractical, she will sit down and recall every 



1918] HOME ECONOMICS TEACHER IN THE RURAL SCHOOL 159 

thing in her alma mater laboratories and make a list to hand to her super- 
intendent which will call for more money perhaps than he has to spend 
for equipment for the whole school during the year. Naturally he sees 
that she and her wants are out of the question, and she will probably get 
nothing, but the cause of home economics will get a black eye with that 
superintendent. 

But if our teacher has the qualities of "carefulness and inventiveness 
and watchfulness and willingness and readiness of appliance, along vcith 
the economy of her great grandmothers and the science of modern chem- 
ists, with EngHsh thoroughness and French art" to use Ruskin's oft 
quoted words, she will take stock of what is on hand and what may be 
made from obtainable materials. Then she will decide which things 
are most necessary and which she can dispense with without crippling 
the work and will proceed to set up an equipment that is the best for her 
particular conditions. 

.•\nother asset that the home economics teacher can use is correct 
dressing. Any teacher in a small place is more or less of an example as 
to dress, but the home economics teacher has an exceptional influence 
in this way, since she is supposed to have had extra training in the making 
of clothes. For this reason she has an especial opportimity to use her 
example and influence toward elegant simplicity and neatness in dress. 
Since extravagance in dress has become such an alarming form of intem- 
perance among girls and women especially, some woman of standing in 
each community needs to use her influence in the cause of sensible dressing. 
On the other hand if the home economics teacher wears seven dollar 
waists, twenty doUar hats, twelve dollar shoes, and other things in pro- 
portion, the girls will think she is wonderful, but T^ill get the idea that 
in order to be a " high brow, " they must dress the part, and some of them 
will get the notion that respectability depends upon one's clothes and 
v.-hat one has — a rather common notion. I once heard a woman defending 
the social standing of a family which had recently moved to her town 
by saying that they are "Just lovely people — why, everj' sheet in their 
house is hemstitched by hand"; as though ha\'ing wasted all that time 
in which they might have been gaining real culture made them "lovely 
people. " If the home economics teacher is having that kind of an in- 
fluence in a community, she is falling short of what is expected of her. 

Then there is so much that the home economics teacher can do for 
the community that other teachers could not do so well. She can do 
much toward developing school and community spirit and pride by 



160 THE JOXIRNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [April 

getting up a good exhibit for the parish and state fairs. If she has a 
creditable exhibit, the students will be proud of it; they will just have 
to be at the Fair to see how it compares with the others. Their parents 
too will be glad to see what our daughters and our school and our com- 
munity can do at our State Fair. It is a wholesome spirit, a spirit that 
is sure to lead to progress. 

If the teacher is thorough and practical, mothers will soon see that their 
daughters are receiving training that they themselves might profit by; 
and when this teacher suggests the organization of a Woman 's Home 
Economics club to meet at the school building on Saturdays, some of 
them will be interested enough to join. This club would be made en- 
tirely worth while if they studied together such things as Home Manage- 
ment, A Well Selected Diet, Infant Care, Home Nursing, House Sani- 
tation or any subject that would appeal to the homemaker. The social 
side of these meetings would make them popular if nothing else would, 
and so the teacher would have to see to that side of the organization. 

One great thing that the teacher can do for her study club is to intro- 
duce to them the readily available source of reliable information in the 
United States government bulletins. She can remind them that there 
is hardly a phase of home life that is not discussed in one or more of these 
bulletins. They can be grouped together according to subjects to form 
texts for almost any of the home economics subjects that these mothers 
might take up: — for instance, for the child study course, there are four 
buUetins to be had for the asking : Prenatal Care, Infant Care, Food for 
Young Children, and School Lunches. For the food and cookery classes, 
there are not only bulletins on Milk, Eggs, Meat, Fish, Bread, Cereals, 
Vegetables, but the new series on How to Select Foods, and such bul- 
letins as Fresh Fruits and Vegetables, Conservers of Staple Foods, and 
others that show how to adjust our living to the present emergency needs. 
There are at least forty bulletins from the Department of Agriculture 
on the subject of foods, to say nothing of many valuable ones from the 
Bureau of Chemistry, The Children's Bureau, and others. 

Two bulletins that the rural home economics teacher would do well 
to use and demonstrate are those on the "Iceless Refrigerators" and 
"The Fireless Cooker." Both of these conveniences would be very 
acceptable in a rural community where household conveniences are not 
very common. 

There is another important movement that some one needs to start 
in any public school — that is a consideration of the physical condition 



1918] THE HOME ECONOIUCS TEACHER IN THE RURAL SCHOOL 161 

of every student. Any public school teacher will tell you that the con- 
dition that causes her the most trouble and that stands most in the way 
of her success as a teacher, is the physical unfitness of a large per cent 
of her students; that many of them are stupid, lazy, mentally inert be- 
cause they are physically unfit. Often these children are below normal 
physically (and consequently mentally) because of some poor home condi- 
tion, perhaps a lack of intelligent care when they were babies or young 
children. There are several ways in which the home economics teacher 
can endea\'or to remedy these conditions. 

One thing that she can do toward this end is to improve the noon 
meal of the school children, either by supplementing it with a hot dish 
served in the school kitchen by the older girls in the cooking classes or by 
gi\Tng special instructions on the cooking and preparation of foods 
suitable for the school lunch to both her students and their mother's 
club. It is a very simple matter with the older girls' help to prepare a 
bowl of cream soup or some other simple dish to supplement the lunch 
from home, or to serve milk to the students. There is usually no trouble 
in getting material for these lunches by letting the students furnish by 
turns the things that they have most of at home. 

This plan for the noon meal has more advantages than simply furnish- 
ing so much protein and so many calories; it gives the teacher a chance 
to teach table manners, to bring out the bashful student, and to estab- 
lish various social virtues that might otherwise never come to light. 
Again, she can have an influence on the daily lives of her students as to 
hygiene and sanitation, which will affect their health materially. 

After all, it may seem that a great deal is expected of her; that she is 
expected to give to the community too much of her time out of school, 
and too much to the school itself, but there are many just such teachers in 
the state who are doing just these things and are happy in doing them. 
It may require a great out-put of her young life and energy, but the pos- 
sible results in a big cause will fully repay her best efforts. 



162 



THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS 



[AprD 



HOUSEHOLD PHYSICS AND PRACTICE COTTAGE 
WORK 



B. L. STEELE 

Professor of Physics, Slate College of Washington, Pullman 

During the past five years the writer has given a special course in 
physics for the students in the Department of Home Economics. 
An unusual effort has been made to adapt the course to the needs of this 
particular group and to make its practical value as great as possible. 
The results herewith presented represent one phase of the course. 

Each year, efficiency tests of gas, gasolene, kerosene, and alcohol burners, 
and of electric cooking devices have been made by the young women 
in the course. The heating equipment needed for these experiments 
has been loaned to the laboratory in many instances by manufacturers 
or local dealers. The coal range tests have been made on a great variety 
of ranges, both in the laboratories of the Home Economics Department, 
and in the homes of resident students and sorority houses. 

Table I gives typical results of efficiency tests of electric cooking ap- 
pliances. Similar tables might have been given for the gasolene and 
kerosene burners and the coal range. 

TABLE I 
Efficiency tests of electric cooking appliances 



Mass of water heated (grains) 

Room temperature (Centigrade) 

Initial water temperature (Centigrade) . 
Final water temperature (Centigrade) . . 
Temperature increase (Centigrade) . . . . 

Heat absorbed (calories) 

Heater turned on 

Heater turned off. . -. 

Time in use (seconds) 

Current (amperes) 

Potential difference (volts) 

Electric energy expended in heater 

(joules) 

Heat equivalent of electric energy 

(calories)* 

Efficiency (per cent) 



STJEPACE HEATERS 



4,536 

21 

18.2 

93.2 

75.0 

340,200 

3:00 

3:32 

1,920 

10.32 

115 

2,278,656 

544,221 
62.5 



4,536 

22 

22.6 

96.5 

73.9 

335,210 

12:13 

12:58:30 

2,730 

8.69 

115 

2,730,000 

652,000 

51.4 



2,268 

21 

16.4 

65.0 

48.6 

110,225 

7:37 

8:33 

3,360 

1.63 

110 

602,448 

143,880 
78.6 



1,360 

22 

19.5 

92.0 

72.5 

98,600 

9:30 

9:46:49 

1,009 

4.00 

110 

443,960 

106,033 
93.0 



'4.187 joules are equivalent to 1 calorie. 



1918] HOUSEHOLD PHYSICS AND PRACTICE COTTAGE WORK 163 

Xearl}- every kind of electric heating appliance was used, and under 
widely varying conditions. Room temperatures, existence of air cur- 
rents from open windows, the material and the condition of the surface 
of the utensil used, wattage of the heater, relative size of the heater and 
the utensil, and quantity of water heated, were all found to affect the 
efficiencies very considerably, particularly those of the surface and im- 
mersion types. The average working efficiency of the electric range, as 
used in the home depends on so many factors, that to make an accurate 
estimate is difficult. In the hands of those who have had a bit of expe- 
rience in making the proper combination of surface, enclosed, and im- 
mersion heaters, the efficiency should probably be above 60 per cent. 

In determining the maximum of efficiency of the coal range, the entire 
top was covered ^^•ith large vessels of water, e.g., wash boilers or 5 gallon 
gasolene cans, and the oven space was similarly utilized. The fire was 
not hghted until the initial water temperature had been taken, and when 
2 pounds of kindling and 10 pounds of coal had been completely burned 
the record of the final maximum temperature was made. It was esti- 
mated that, as the coal range is used for cooking in the average home, 
not more than one-fourth of the available space is utilized at any one 
time, and that the cooking operations are being carried on less than one- 
half of the time during which the coal is burning. If this estimate is cor- 
rect the average cooking efficiency of the coal range does not exceed 2 per 
cent. The efficiencies of flame contact appliances, which included 
standard kerosene and gasolene blue flame burners, alcohol lamp for 
chafing dishes, and gas burners have been found to vary from approxi- 
mately 20 per cent to iS per cent. 

Table II gives the average efficiencies of various kinds of equipments. 

For the purposes of comparison there is given in Table III the value 

TABLE n 
Average efficiencies of equipment 



KIND OP COOKING EQUIPMENT 



EFFiaENCY 



Coal range (entire space utilized) 

Coal range estimated home cooking (about) . 

Flame contact burners (kerosene, etc.) 

Electric heaters — surface 

Electric heaters — enclosed 

Electric heaters — immersion 



per ceni 

18 
2 
28 
45 to 65 
70 
90 



164 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS 

TABLE in 
Value in calories in 5 cents worth of fuel 

FDEL 

Coal (Rock Springs) at ^10.00 per ton 

Kerosene at 20 cents per gallon 

Gasolene at 25 cents per gallon 

Alcohol at 75 cents per gallon 

Electricity at 3.85 cents per kilowatt hour 

TABLE IV 
Heat available in 5 cents U'orth of fuel 

FUEL 



[April 



32,256,000 
8,550,000 
6,130,000 
1,340,000 
1,116,000 



Coal (range at 2 per cent efficiency) 

Kerosene (range at 28 per cent efficiency) . 
Gasolene (range at 28 per cent efficiency) . . 
Electricity (range at 60 per cent efficiency) 
Alcohol at 28 per cent efficiency 



645,160 

2,394,000 

1,716,400 

669,600 

375,200 



in calories of 5 cents worth of each of the various fuels at the prices pre- 
vailing in Pullman, Washington, in December, 1916. 

Table IV gives the heat available for cooking in 5 cents worth of each 
of the fuels, proper allowance having been made for the working effi- 
ciencies of the various cooking appUances. 

For the purpose of affording laboratory work in the course in house- 
hold administration, the Department of Home Economics maintains 
a practice cottage. The seniors in home economics each year are divi- 
ded into groups of four, and each group, together with a chaperon, spends 
four weeks at the cottage, each student having the management for one 
week. Each one makes out a week 's menus and determines the necessary 
quantity of each article of food according to the needs of the group. The 
young women are "weighed in" at the beginning and "weighed out" at 
the end of the month and in most cases are found to have fared better 
than on their regular boarding house or home cooking. 

During the past year, through the generosity of the Washington Water 
Power Company it has been possible to have the practice cottage 
equipped with a Westinghouse electric range in addition to the coal 
range, and Prof. Agnes Craig, Head of the Department of Home Eco- 
nomics, made it possible for us to obtain comparative cooking cost 
data for a family of five. During the winter months when the furnace 
was in use the water front of the coal range was disconnected, the hot 



1918J 



HOUSEHOLD PHi^SICS AND PRACTICE COTTAGE WORK 



165 



water for domestic use being furnished entirely by the coil in the 
furnace. 

In the late spring the water front was again connected up and all hot 
water needed was heated by the range in connection with the cooking. 

Table V gives a week 's menus and Table VI gives the cost of cooking 

TABLE V 
A typical week's menus cooked on electric range* 



BREAKTAST 



Monday. 



Tuesday. 



Wednesday. 



Thursday. 



Friday. 



Saturday. 



Sunday. 



Cream of wheat, corn 
muffins, sjTup, cof- 
fee 



Baked apple, muffins, 
coffee 



Graham mush, rolls, 
coffee 



Marmalade, rolls, cof- 
fee 



Muffins, cereal, syrup, 
coffee 



Hot cakes, syrup, 
cereal, coffee 



Fried mush, toast 



Creamed potatoes, 
bread and butter, 
apple sauce 



Rice and cream, bread 
and butter, salad 



Cheese sandwich, ap- 
ple sauce, cake, 
chocolate 



Escalloped potatoes, 
tea, baked apple, 
bread and butter 



Salad, pudding, bread 
and butter 



Potatoes, apples, on- 
ion salad, rice and 
cream, bread and 
butter 



Bread and butter, 
fruit cake 



Pork roast, potatoes, 
tomatoes, apple 
sauce, bread and 
butter 

Spaghetti and cheese, 
fried potatoes, but- 
tered carrots, cot- 
tage pudding, bread 
and butter 

Veal loaf, baked po- 
tatoes, creamed on- 
ions, gravy, rolls, 
jelly cake, coffee 

Creamed salmon on 
toast, mashed po- 
tatoes, bread and 
butter, apple pie 

Pork chops, potatoes, 
tomatoes, bread 
and butter, custard 

Roast pork, baked 
potatoes, creamed 
onion gravy, bread 
and butter, cream, 
cake, coffee 

Veal roast, gravy, 
baked potatoes, 
creamed onions, 
bread and butter, 
cream, cake, coffee 



* It must be remembered that the menus given were planned and used last year before 
the present food problem of the war arose. The menus are not considered ideal, but rep- 
resent, perhaps, pretty closely the meals of an average .\merican family. 



166 



THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS 



[April 



TABLE VI 
Cost of cooking week's menus on electric range 



KILOWATT HOURS 



Monday 

Tuesday 

Wednesday . 
Thursday... 

Friday 

Saturday. . . 
Sunday* 



Total kilowatt hours . 
Total cost (cents) . . . . 
Cost per meal 



0.5 
0.7 
0.5 
0.6 
0.6 
0.0 
0.0 



0.1 
0.5 
0.1 
0.0 
0.2 
1.0 
0.3 



0.7 
0.5 
0.5 
1.0 
0.6 
0.5 
1.1 



0.2 
0.0 
0.0 
0.0 
0.0 
0.2 
0.4 



5.1 
19.6 

2.8 



5.7 
21.9 
3.13 



1.0 
0.6 
2.4 
1.4 
0.3 
2.0 
0.0 



0.0 
0.4 
0.7 
0.0 
0.8 
0.6 
0.0 



10.2 

39.3 

5.65 



Total cost for week (cents) . . . 
Average cost per meal (cents) . 



80 

3 , S.S 



* On Sunday dinner was served at noon, and supper at night. The figures for dinner are 
placed under lunch. 



TABLE VII 
Cost of cooking week's menus on coal range, water front disconnected 



Wood 



Coal 



Wood 



Coal 



Wood 



Coal 



Monday 

Tuesday . . . . 
Wednesday . 
Thursday . . . 

Friday 

Saturday . . . 
Sunday 



3.00 
3.00 
4.00 
3.00 
3.00 
2.00 
3.75 



8.00 
5.00 
4.00 
6.50 
2.75 
1.75 
5.25 



2.00 
2.25 
3.00 
4.00 
2.00 
6.00 
1.50 



6.00 
6.00 
4.50 
7.00 
2.75 
2.00 
5.00 



3.50 
3.00 
3.25 
5.00 
2.50 
5.75 
1.50 



6.00 
6.50 
6.25 
9.00 
6.00 
5.00 
8.00 



Total pounds. . 
Costs (cents)*. 



Total 

Cost per meal. 



21.75 
6.5 



33.25 
16.6 



20.75 
6.2 



33.25 
16.6 



24.50 
7.35 



46.75 
23.4 



23.1 
3.3 



22.8 
3.25 



30.8 

4.4 



Total cost for week (cents) . . . 
Average cost per meal (cents) . 



.76.70 
. 3.65 



* Value of 1 pound of wood, 0.3 cents; pound of coal, 0.5 cents. 



1918] 



HOUSEHOLD PHYSICS AND PRACTICE COTTAGE WORK 



167 



them on the electric range. Two meters were provided, one for the oven 
and boiler and one for the plates. The meters were read before and af- 
ter each meal, and in every case tenths of kilowatt-hours were carefully- 
estimated. During December, 1916, when this week's cooking was 
done, the average cost of a kilowatt-hour for cooking purposes in Pullman 
was 3.85 cents; this value was used in calculating all cooking costs. 

The cost of a typical week 's cooking on the coal range with the water 
front disconnected is detailed in Table VII. Table VIII gives the cost 
of a week's cooking with the water front connected up. 

TABLE VIII 
Cost of cooking week's menus on coal range, water front connected 



Wood 



Coal 



Wood 



Coal 



Wood 



Coal 



Monday 

Tuesday 

Wednesday. 
Thursday. . . 

Friday 

Saturday. . . 
Sunday 



5.50 
3.75 
6.00 
4.00 
4.50 
6.75 
9.25 



4.50 
6.50 
9.00 
2.00 
9.75 
5.50 
15.25 



6.50 
9.25 
5.50 
9.00 
4.50 
6.00 
5.00 



9.50 
7.00 
4.25 
9.75 
5.00 
11.50 
0.00 



3.75 
6.00 
5.50 
9.00 
5.50 
3.75 
3.00 



9.75 
7.50 
3.25 
9.75 
13.50 
11.25 
18.00 



Total pounds . 
Cost in cents. 



39.75 
11.9 



52.50 
26.25 



45.75 
13.7 



47.00 
23.5 



35.50 
10.95 



73.00 
36.5 



Total (cents) . . 
Cost per meal. 



38.15 
5.45 



37.2 

5.3 



47.45 
6.78 



Total cost for week . . . . 
Average cost per meal. 



.$ 1.23 
. . .0585 



In all, three weeks' cooking was done on the coal range with the water 
front disconnected, four weeks' with the water front connected, and live 
weeks' cooking on the electric range. Table IX summarizes the aver- 
age costs per week and per meal of this work. 

In considering the above results the fact that the work was carried on 
by students who were busy with other regular college work must not be 
lost sight of, and it should be mentioned also that each of the 19 young 
women who hved in the practice cottage had had considerable experience 
cooking on the coal range and that none of them had had experience 
with the electric range. Each student, however, whether cooking on 



168 



THE JOtTRNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS 

TABLE DC 
Summar\ 



[April 





AVERAGE COST 




Per week 


Per meal 




cents 
119.6 

77.4 
78.5 


cents 
5 70 




3.67 




3.72 







Using wood, with Washington fire wood at SH.OO per cord the cost per week would be 
o8.2 cents; per meal, 4.2 cents. 

the coal range with or without the water front connected, or on the elec- 
tric range, was instructed to practice economy of "fuel" as much as 
possible. 



HOW MUCH FOOD DOES IT TAKE TO SUPPLY US WITH 
THE CALCIUM WE NEED? 

MI?mA C. DENTON 

The following table illustrates the paucity of calcium in most com- 
mon foods, with the exception of milk. The amount of calcium oxide 
contained in these designated food portions, 0.4 gram, is little more 
than half the amount required daily by an average adult, and only about 
one-third of the amount needed by the prospective or nursing mother. 
In most cases, the foods listed here, are chosen because they are richest, 
not poorest, in calcium. Most meats, fish, and many cereal foods, fruits, 
and vegetables, would need to be given in enormous amounts to furnish 
even this modest portion of calcium. 

If large amounts of greens such as chicory, endive, lettuce, water- 
cress, can be eaten, these are valuable sources of calcium. This means, 
however, that they must be eaten cooked (steamed, or cooked in very 
little water). Amounts used in salads (10 to 25 grams) are too small to 
be significant. Oatmeal is higher in calcium than are other cereals, yet 
15 to 20 servings (as breakfast porridge) are required, to yield 0.4 g. of 
calcium oxide. 



1918] HOW MUCH FOOD DOES IT TAKE TO SUPPLY US WITH CALCIUM 169 

With regard to vegetables and other foods boiled in water which is 
thrown away, it must be remembered that this ordinarily leads to a 
loss of about one-fourth of the calcium which they contain. 

It will be noted, even from the few analyses available, that vegetable 
foods are especially liable to vary in their mineral content. Doubtless 
character of the soil and amoimt of rainfall have a good deal to do with 
these variations, apart from the amounts of each mineral constituent 
more or less characteristic of different species of plants. 

It will also be noted that method of manufacture has a good deal to 
do with the ash content of foods which have undergone household or 
factory manipulation. (See cottage cheese; differences in water content 
doubtless play an important role here. See molasses; not only the 
original calcium content of the plant is here concerned, but also, evi- 
dently, the calcium added in clarifying the raw cane juice from which 
sugar is extracted, would have a considerable influence.) 



Amounts of food makrial yielding 0.4 gram of CaO 

After analyses given in Sherman's "Chemistry of Food and Nutrition," pp. 332-337; ex- 
cept when otherwise specified. (All weights refer to edible portions only.) 



FOOD MATERIAL 



Milk, whole 

Buttermilk 

Cream, rich (31 per cent fat) 
Cheese, hard (American)*. . . 

Cheese, hard (Swiss)* 

Cheese, cottage 



Eggs, whole, 50 grams each. 
Egg yolks, 18 grams each . . 
Fruits 

Currants, fresh 

Currants, dried 

Dates, dry 

Figs, dried 

Oranges, § pound each 



Prunes, 50 to the pound . 

Raisins 

Rhubarb 



COMMON MEASURE 



i pmt 
About i pint 
i pint 



8| eggs 
11 yolks 



2 cups 
45 dates 

5 figs 

3 oranges 

74 prunes 

4 cups 



IN 
CRAMS 


WEIGHT IN 
OUNCES 


NUMBER OF 
SERVINGS 


238 
267 

278 


8.4 
9.4 
9.8 


1 large 
1 large 


36 
25 
133 


1.3 
0.9 

4.7 


1 large 
1 large 


430 


15.2 


8^ 


200 


7.0 




800 


28.2 


10 


290 


10.1 


5 (sauce) 


400 


14.1 


5 (sauce) 


134 


4.7 




667 
667 


23.5 
23.5 


6(of| 
orange) 
15 


500 
661 


17.6 
23.5 


12 (sauce) 
5 



Higherf 



I^ower* 



Less than half 
as much* 



* Adequacy and Economy of Some City Dietaries, Sherman and Gillett. 

Forbes' analyses (Bui. 255, Ohio .'\gr. Exp. Sta.) are somewhat lower than Sherman's. 

t Bui. 28, Onice of Exp. Sta., U. S. Dept. Agr., p. 55, footnote. 



170 



THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS 



[April 



Amounts of food material — Continued 



FOOD MATERIAL 



Vegetables 

Cabbage 

Carrots 

Cauliflower 

Celery 

Leeks 

Lettuce 

Onions 

Parsnips 

Potatoes 

Radishes 

Rutabaga 

Spinach 

Tomatoes 

Turnip greens 

Turnips 

Legtimes 

Beans, navy, dried 

Beans, lima, dried 

Beans, string, fresh 

Peanuts 

Peas, dried 

Nuts 

Almonds 

Chestnuts, fresh 

Pecans* 

Walnuts 

Sugars and sirups 

Maple sap 

Maple sirup* 

Corn sirup* 

Molasses (not designated) 
Molasses (New Orleans)* 
Molasses (Porto Rico)*. . 
Sugar, brown (molasses)*. 



COMMON MEASURE 


WEIGHT 

IN 

GRAMS 


WEIGHT IN 
OUNCES 


NUMBER OF 
SERVINGS 




585 


20.6 


5 or 6 




520 


18.4 


5 or 6 




235 


8.3 


2 or 3 




400 


14.0 


4 or 5 




500 


17.6 


5 or 6 




800 


28.3 


28 




667 


23.5 


6 or 7 




444 


15.7 


4 or 5 




2,500 


5.5 lbs. 


20 




800 


28.3 oz. 


28 




400 


14.0 


3 or 4 




444 


15.7 


3 or 4 


13 large 


2,000 


f4.0 lbs. 
\6.5oz. 






84 


3.0 


1 




450 


15.9 


4 or 5 


Nearly 1 cup 


182 


6.4' 


4 or 5 


2 cups 


400 


14. 0^ 


8 to 12 




533 


18. 7» 


6 




400 


14.0 






286 


10.1* 


5 to 8 




133 


4.7 


5 




1,000 


2 lbs. 
3.25 oz. 






331 


11.7 oz. 


12 




370 


13.0 






235 


8.3 




9 tablesp. 


256 


9.0 




20 tablesp. 


555 


19.5 




2 tablesp. 


U 


1.5 




3 tablesp. 


77 


2.7 




2 tablesp. 


55 


2.0 




40 tablesp. 


374 


13.2 





Somewhat less* 



About one-half 

as much* 



Same result* 



* Calculated from analyses given in .\dequacy and Economy of Some City Dietaries, 
Sherman and Gillett. 

' After cooking, 12.8 to 16 oz. ' 28 to 35 oz. ' 18 oz. « 20 to 25 oz. 



1918] COXSER\'ING WOMAN POWER IX WAR TIME 171 

CONSERVIXG WOM.\N POWER IN WAR TIME 

M.A.RY ALDEN HOPKINS 

Every woman must have shelter, nourishing food, and satisfying 
recreation if she is to be of her full worth to the world. This is as true in 
time of war as in peace. No woman can carry her part of the burden 
successfully if she is frightened, sickly, or overworked. Men do not 
always understand this. Sometimes women have to protect each other. 

The War Work Council of the National Board of the Young Women's 
Christian Association was formed for just tliis purpose. It was called 
into e.xistence in June, 1917, to guard the interests of ^\merican women 
affected by the war. To aid and advise them, a $4,000,000 war budget 
was appropriated. An even larger sum of money was raised before 
Christmas. Hostess houses in military camps and cantonments, 
erected at the requests of the commandants, received $900,000. The 
smn of $500,000 was put aside for emergency housing of the employed girl 
in camps and in industrial centers. American women who cannot speak 
Enghsh received for translators and ad\'isors $100,000. The Bureau of 
Social Morality speakers was continued and increased with a like amount. 
Work in colored communities affected by the war received a donation of 
$200,000. For women in France and Russia, so burdened by the great 
war, $1,000,000 was set apart. The increased staff, emergency calls, and 
miscellaneous expenditures took the rest of the $4,000,000. 

The women who form and carry on the War Work Council are those 
whose names guarantee its sincerity and effectiveness. The Council 
members are chosen from all over the country. 

Hostess houses in the cantonments where thousands of soldiers are 
gathered from every state were the first phase of the War Work Council's 
activities. They are designed for the comfort of the wives, mothers, and 
sweethearts who come to the great camps to see their soldiers. No house 
is erected except at the direct request of the commandant. Fifty-three are 
finished and in use; others are being built; still more have been asked 
for. These houses have been designed by women. Miss Julia Morgan 
is in charge of construction on the Pacific coast, Miss Fay Kellogg in 
the southern field, and Miss Katharine Budd in the middle west. 

Each hostess house contains a large reception room where hospitality 
is sj-mbolizcd by a cheerful fire in a huge stone fireplace. A quiet rest 
room gives the woman who has traveled some distance a chance to recu- 
perate while her soldier is being summoned by telephone. A nursery 



172 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [April 

under the charge of a trained nurse is a haven of refuge for tired 
babies. A cafeteria provides food, not only for the visitors, but for the 
boys who are tired of a soldier's fare. In those great cantonments miles 
long and stretching over thousands of acres, the hostess house is the only 
spot where a woman has a right to set her feet. 

Girls always have been the special charge of the Young Women's 
Christian Association in time of peace. In the period of mobilization 
and preparation for war, the War Work Council gives them increased 
attention. Both the girls in industry and girls at home are confused by 
the abnormal conditions. Girls' club work is being furthered by the War 
Work Council in all towns and cities adjacent to military camps for the 
purpose of stabilizing the girls' emotional response to the unusual con- 
ditions which surround her. Forty-six social centers for girls in these 
Qeighborhoods were opened before the war had been six months in prog- 
ress. Sixty-five specially chosen workers were placed in charge to 
guide the girls' recreations in safe paths. 

The Patriotic League deals with girls in larger groups, and is proving a 
safe-guard to the dangers incident to the change in our usual social 
restraints. The organization expresses its purpose in its pledge. ' 'By 
doing better than ever before whatever work I have to do; by rendering 
whatever special service I can to my community and country; by living 
up to the highest standards of character and honor and helping others to 
do the same." 

All of the protections which are thrown about the white girl in this 
emergency time are doubly necessary in the case of the colored girl, and 
everything is being done for her that is being done for the white girl. 
The matter of her safety is placed in the hands of trained and efficient 
leaders of her own race. 

The lectures on social morahty that have always been a feature of the 
Young Women's Christian Association's influence have been extended 
and the number of lecturers increased to fourteen. 

Women who are the most helpless of all when their husbands are called 
into the army are perhaps those women from foreign countries who never 
have learned to speak English. When the husbands or sons upon whom 
they have depended are called into service, they have lost their English 
tongues. The Foreign Language Service Bureau has been established 
with branches in industrial centers and in camps where foreign men are 
gathered to assist these women in arranging their family affairs. Trans- 
lators explain in twelve languages about soldiers' insurance, separation 



1918J CONSER\aNG WOMAN POWER IN WAR TIME 173 

allowances, exemption papers, postal regulations, food conservation, and 
the many other matters which the usual citizen learns without eiJort. 

Calls from France and Russia for help in feeding the over-burdened 
women who manufacture the munitions of war came to the War Work 
Council very early last year, and twenty-one industrial experts, under the 
supervision of Henrietta Roelofs, were sent to aid French women in 
establishing in the great industrial centers, foyer-canteens for factory 
women. These are rest and recreation rooms combined with cafeterias. 
Attention is also being given to the needs of our own American nurses, 
hundreds of whom are already in France. The letters sent back by the 
American women in France portray the desperate situation of French 
women in the fourth year of the war. The million dollars which the War 
Work Council devotes to helping European women is all too small. 

The two War Work Council secretaries first sent to make a general 
survey of conditions in Russia wrote back of long lines of women waiting 
for hours to receive their portions of the scanty food supply. Some 
quicker form of distribution of food among the women working all day 
long in factories was a crying need. The cafeteria system seems to be 
the best method for the situation. "Tea reading rooms," the Russian 
women call such restaurants. Six industral experts were soon dis- 
patched from America to assist the two women already in Russia. 
Whether or not we are S3Tnpathetic with the political situation in Russia, 
we must not fail the Russian women who ask for our assistance. 

Although the activities of the War Work Council directly concern 
women they are of equal importance to men. Seeming progress made at 
the expense of women is really no progress at all. The conservation of 
women's strength and the preservation of the social stability we have 
attained through centuries of clumsy efifort is of vital importance. A 
nation's success depends upon the welfare of all its people. 



174 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [April 

THE PROFESSIONAL SERVICES OF HELEN KINNE 

Miss Helen Kinne, Professor of Household Arts Education in Teachers 
College, Columbia University, died in New York, December 29, 1917. 
Miss Kinne was a pioneer worker and a recognized national leader in the 
development of home economics. Her teaching began in 1891, and dur- 
ing her years of work she has trained about 3000 teachers of home eco- 
nomics, who are now rendering service in all parts of the world. Born in 
Norwich, Connecticut, in 1861, and living afterward in Providence, 
Rhode Island, where she attended private schools and took advanced 
instruction under members of the faculty of Brown University, her atten- 
tion was caught in 1890 by a magazine article that described the newly- 
established New York College for Training Teachers which was offering 
courses in "domestic economy." She entered this institution in Janu- 
ary, 1891, and six months later was asked to become the instructor in 
domestic economy, which as a new subject was then under the direction 
of the Department of Physics and Chemistry. 

In 1898, when Teachers College, by affihation with Columbia, became 
the first university school of education, Miss Kiime was made Professor 
of Domestic Science and Art in charge of her separate department. The 
subject grew rapidly and after a time separate departments of Domestic 
Science and Domestic Art became necessary and Miss Kinne became head 
of the former and Mrs. Woolman of the latter. As the student body 
increased specialized teaching was developed, Miss Kiime finally taking 
as her personal responsibihty the courses in methods of teaching, while 
retaining active supervision of the laboratory courses in food-chemistry 
and cookery. She also herseK gave the course in household manage- 
ment and domestic economy. Separate departments of Household Ad- 
ministration, and of Nursing and Health, under Miss Nutting, had begun 
to develop when the gift of a $450,000 building made possible the organi- 
zation of the School of Household Arts, in 1909, in which Miss Kinne 
became senior professor in the department of Household Arts Education, 
while departments of Household Chemistry, Physiological Chemistry, 
Nutrition, Foods and Cookery, Textiles and Clothing, each with exten- 
sive laboratories, and its own teaching staff, were developed on the 
foundation which she, herself, had laid. 

The twenty-fifth anniversary of Miss Kinne's first connection with 
Teachers College was celebrated in January, 1916. The next year she 
went on her Sabbatical leave and at the end of it she was not in health 



1918] THE PROFESSIONAL SERVICES OF HELEN KINNE 175 

to return to her work. In November she came back to New York 
expecting to resimie her duties in January, but an acute attack of colitis, 
from which she had long suffered, came on at Christmas and proved 
fatal five days later. 

When the history of home economics is written Miss Kinne will be 
counted among the half-dozen national leaders who in the early develop- 
ment of this work won a place for it in the school curriculum, and by 
training competent teachers made that place secure. Her own depart- 
ment at Teachers College increased from a mere handful of students to 
over a thousand each year in regular and special courses. In the country 
at large the subject found a place in most of the woman's colleges except 
those of strictly academic character, in a large number of universities, 
and in nearly every public normal school and public school system. To 
this result Miss Kinne also contributed by leadership outside her insti- 
tution. From the first Lake Placid Conference on Home Economics, in 
1899, as chairman year after year of one of its committees on courses of 
study, she led a group who studied the educational aspects of the subject. 
After 1905, Miss Kinne was chairman of the "Teaching Section of the 
Lake Placid Conference on Home Economics" which held a winter 
educational meeting for the next few years, and which was one important 
step toward the organization of the American Home Economics Associa- 
tion in 1908. Miss Kinne's committee reports on such topics as Grade 
School Work, Vocational Schools, Secondary Schools, and Requirements 
for Teachers, appearing almost every year, were significant contributions 
toward the development of our subject. 

The Home Economics Association of Greater New York was organized 
imder Miss KLnne's leadership in the fall of 1908, and she served 
as president for three years. The programs deaUng with health prob- 
lems, standards of hving, infant welfare, and other social as well as 
educational matters, reflected the widening views of those years. 

In the American Home Economics Association Miss Kinne took a 
leading part, serving on the Council and as one of the incorporators of the 
Association, and on the editorial board of the Journal. She was also 
chairman of its important committee on Legislation for a number of 
years, and was active in the earher campaigns for what were eventually 
the Smith-Lever and the Smith-Hughes acts, which are doing so much 
to enlarge our professional fields at present. 

Miss Kirme also worked professionally in other associations, contribut- 
ing papers particularly in the Eastern Manual Training Association. 



176 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [April 

Another contribution to home economics was made in her books. Her 
"Equipment for Teaching Domestic Science," helped to improve and 
standardize the material means of instruction; her text-books, written 
with Miss Cooley as co-author, "Shelter and Clothing" (1913), and 
"Foods and Household Management" (1915), and the Home Making 
Series "Food and Health," "Clothing and Health" and the "Home and 
the Family" (1916-1917), have made her name well known to thousands 
of school girls now studying home economics. Her projected ' 'Methods 
of Teaching Home Economics" was never written, but the thousands of 
teachers who received their training under her are hving testimony of her 
skill and her ideals in this field. 

Miss Kinne regarded home economics as a national and international 
agency for social progress. Because of the latter, she had planned to 
spend her Sabbatical year in helping to introduce home economics into 
missionary schools in China; she was to have lectured at the Canton 
Christian College, and an invitation had come for her to plan the home 
economics department of a new Missionary College in Japan. 

She was returning to the College full of plans for her courses and for her 
participation again in the life of the College. She was plarming to bring 
special lecturers on immigration and other problems to the College, and 
was keenly following the war situation as related to home economics, 
and was expecting to go to Washington and to Boston in quest of ma- 
terials during the Christmas holidays when the fatal illness came on. 



FOR THE HOMEMAKER 

A LESSON IN ECONOMICAL BUYING 

GRETA GRAY 

Everyone knows that different foods vary in the amount of nourish- 
ment they give to the body, and that the value of a pound of food is by 
no means measured by its cost. Yet it is not always easy for house- 
keepers to judge which of two foods gives more energy to the body for 
the money expended. These tables are intended to help the housewife, 
the teacher, and the student find this out with little effort. 

The calorie is a measure for energy (power to do work) just as the inch 
is a measure of length, or the pound is a measure of weight. To make a 
garment we need more yards of cloth 18 inches wide than we do of cloth 
36 or 54 inches wide. To get enough energy to keep the heart pumping, 
to walk about, and to work, we need more pounds of a food which yields 
200 calories per pound, than we do of a food which yields 1600 calories 
per pound. We buy cloth by the yard and food by the pound. 
We can calculate whether cloth which is a yard wide is cheaper or 
dearer at 30 cents a yard, than cloth 18 inches wide at 10 cents a yard, 
and how much of each we require. So we can calculate which of two 
foods is the cheaper for the energy it gives; but we find it more difficult 
to figure out which is the cheaper food, than which is the cheaper cloth. 
This table is meant to make it even easier to tell which of two foods is 
really the cheaper, so far as energy is concerned, than it is to calculate 
which of the two pieces of cloth is the cheaper. 

It must always be remembered, though, that energy is only one factor, 
and that we might buy a great many calories of food very cheaply and 
still be very poorly fed. Milk, for instance, yields only 314 calories 
a pound, while sugar gives 1815. Yet milk is an indispensable food, 
while we could get along without sugar. 

To make a perfectly fair comparison, we should know just what each 
food does in the body. If we do not forget this, we can get a great deal 
of help in buying foods to good advantage, by finding out how much 
energy we get for our money. 

177 



178 



THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS 



[April 



From a study of the tables that show their energy value, we find that 
we may make nine groups of most of the ordinary articles of food, accord- 
ing to the weights of each required to yield approximately the same num- 
ber of calories. These nine groups will range from those of which we 



TABLE I 

Weights of Foods Furnishing 1600 calories 



GROtIP 1. J POUND REQUIRED 


GROUP 2. 1 POUND 


REQUIRED 


GROUP 3. 1 POUND REQUIRED 


Bacon 


Cheese, American and Swiss 


„ . [Cereals 
P'°'^"^'^ [starch 


Butter 


Cocoa 




Chocolate 


Crackers 




Nuts (shelled) except chest- 


Side of pork 




f Raisins 


nuts 






Dried fruits \ Figs 


Lard 






[Dates 


Olive oil, etc. 






Sugar 


Peanut butter 






Dried legumes 


Suet 






Gelatin 


Fat salt pork 






Tapioca 
Macaroni 
Cream, thick 
Mutton flank 

Smoked ham 
, Smoked shoulder 
"1 De\-iled ham 














[ Sausage meat 



GROUP 4. 1 TO 2 POUNDS 


GROUP 5. 2 TO 3 POO.NDS 


GROUP 6. 


3 TO 3 POUNDS 


REQUIRED 


REQUIRED 


REQUIRED 


Bread 


Beans, canned 


Cheese, cottage 


Apples 


Cream, common 


Fish — most kinds. There is 


Dried fruits \ .-Vpricots 


Eggs 


more refuje in fish as pur- 


Prunes 


Fish, oily 


chased than in cuts of meat 


Meat, most cuts of average 


Fowl 


Milk, whole 


fatness and waste 


Meat, lean cuts or cuts with 


Sweet potatoes 


Molasses 


much waste 


Canned corn 


Olives 


Milk, canned 




Syrups 






GROUP 7. 5 TO 10 POUNDS 


GROUP 8. 10 TO 15 POUNDS 


GROUP 9. IS TO 25 POUNDS 


REQUIRED 


REQUIRED 


REQUIRED 


Berries, most 


Fish, shell (mth shell) 


Melons 


Fruits, most 
Milk, skimmed 


Vegetables (•;^=P"f"' 
" 1 *•) 1 Cauliflower 

[Spinach, etc. 


Rhubarb 


Cabbage 


[ Most root 




Celery 


,, ^ , , Green peas. 
Vegetables , ^ 
f ^ , ^ { beans, etc. 

(^'"•^•^y) Camiedpeas 




Vegetables 


Cucumber 




(salad) 


Lettuce 






Radishes 


Corn 






Tomato 



1918] A LESSON IN ECONOMICAL BL^'ING 179 

must have | pound to yield 1600 calories to those of which we must 
have from 15 to 25 pounds, as shown. 

We may put our foods into less well defined or larger groups, as the 
number of pounds necessary to yield 1600 calories increases, because a 
pound more or less means only a few calories more or less; because the 
amount of waste, in some foods, varies so much according to their con- 
dition and the way they are prepared; and because these bulky foods 
even when used in large quantities, furnish such a small part of the energy 
of our diet. 

It will be noticed that this classification makes it easy to remember to 
which group most of our common foods belong and it is hoped it may 
serve to fix in mind the relative fuel values of these foods. 

From this grouping we see that we need forty or fifty times as much of 
some foods as we do of others to give us the same amount of energy. The 
table (following) enables us to determine which of two foods gives 
more energy for less money. 

To use the table to compare one food with another as to approximate 
cost of the energy furnished, find in the left hand column the group to 
which the first food belongs, and then look along the horizontal line until 
the column headed by the cost per pound of this food is found, on this 
line and in this column is the cost of this food for 1600 calories (the unit 
of energy for which this table is made) . In the same way find the cost 
of 1600 calories of the second food. This gives us the figures for the 
comparison of the two. 

For example: To determine by the table whether or not celery at 10 
cents a pound is really cheaper as to energy supply than shelled nuts at 80 
cents or a dollar a pound. Finding group 9 (to which celery belongs) 
in the left hand column and running along to the column headed 10 cents 
a pound, we see that 1600 calories of celery costs 2 dollars. In the same 
way we find from the table that 1600 calories of shelled nuts at 1 dollar 
a pound costs 50 cents. To get the same amount of energy from one as 
from the other we would have to have 2 dollars worth of celery, and 50 
cents worth of nuts; so that celery at 10 cents a pound is four times as 
expensive as shelled nuts at 1 dollar a pound. Another consultation of 
the table shows us that rolled oats at 7 cents a pound furnishes as much 
energy as eggs at 30 cents a pound. (About 40 cents a dozen, or nine 
eggs to a pound) . 

This does not mean that we should always eat nuts instead of celery, 
or never have any of the more expensive foods. For several reasons we 



180 



THE JOXJRNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS 



[April 



need some vegetable or fruit at each meal ; and we need a variety of food 
every day; and every one, children most of aU, must have milk. It 
would be poor economy to do without these foods. It is hoped, 
however, that this table will aid the housewife to choose wisely and 
economically in selecting the food for her family, for a large part of the 
days food supply may be selected from the cheapest foods. 



TABLE II 
Comparative Cost of 1600 Calories of Different Foods at Varying Prices 



COST PEE PODND 


$0.01 


$0.02 


$0.03 


$0.04 


$0.05 


$0.06 


$0.07 


$0.08 


$0.09 


$0.10 


Group 1. Cost for 
1600 calories 


$.005 


$0.01 


$0,015 


$0.02 


$0,025 


$0.03 


$0,035 


$0.04 


$0,045 


$0.05 


Group 2. Cost for 
^ 1600 calories 


.0075 


.015 


.0225 


.03 


0.375 


.045 


.0525 


.06 


.0675 


.075 


Group 3. Cost for 
1600 calories 


.01 


.02 


.03 


.04 


.05 


.06 


.07 


.08 


.09 


.10 


Group 4. Cost for 
1600 calories 


.015 


.03 


.045 


.06 


.075 


.09 


.105 


.12 


.135 


.15 


Group 5. Cost for 
1600 calories 


.025 


.05 


.075 


.10 


.125 


.15 


.175 


.20 


.225 


.25 


Group 6. Cost for 
1600 calories 


.04 


.08 


.12 


.16 


.20 


.24 


.28 


.32 


.36 


.40 


Group 7. Cost for 
1600 calories 


.075 


.15 


.225 


.30 


.375 


.45 


.525 


.60 


.675 


.75 


Group 8. Cost for 
1600 calories 


.125 


.25 


.375 


.50 


.625 


.75 


.875 


1.00 


1 . 125 


1.25 


Group 9. Cost for 
1600 calories 


.20 


.40 


.60 


.80 


1.00 


1.20 


1.40 


1.60 


1.80 


2.00 



TABLE II (Continued) 





$0.20 


$0.30 


$0.40 


$0.50 


$0.60 


$0.70 


SO .80 


$0.90 


$1.00 








Group 1. 


Cost for 1600 calories . . 


$0.10 


$0.15 


$0.20 


$0.25 


$0.30 


$0.35 


$0.40 


$0.45 


$0.50 


Group 2. 


Cost for 1600 calories . 


.15 


.225 


.30 


.375 .45 


.525 


.60 


.675 


.75 


Group 3. 


Cost for 1600 calories . . 


.20 .30 


.40 


.50 


.60 


.70 


.80 


.90 


).00 


Group 4. 


Cost for 1600 calories . . 


.30 .45 


.60 


.75 


.90 


1.05 


1.20 


1.35 


1.50 


Group 5. 


Cost for 1600 calories . . 


..50 .75 


1.00 


1.25 


1.50 


1.75 


2.00 


2.25 


2.50 


Group 6. 


Cost for 1600 calories . . 


.80 


1.20 


1.60 


2.00 


.2.40 


2.80 


3.20 


3.60 


4.00 


Group 7. 


Cost for 1600 calories . . 


1.50 


2.25 


3.00 


3.75 


4.50 


5.25 


6.00 


6.75 


7.50 


Group 8. 


Cost for 1600 calories . . 


2.50 


3.75 


5.00 


6.25 


7.50 


8.75 


10.00 


11.25 


12.50 


Group 9. 


Cost for 1600 calories . . 


4.00 


6.00 


8.00 


10.00 


12.00|14.00 


16.00 


18.00 


20.00 



To find the cost of 1600 calories of a food at 15 cents a pound add the cost of 1600 calories of 
that food at 10 cents a pound and the cost at 5 cents a pound. Do the same for any cost per 
pound that is not given above. 



1918] HOUSEHOLD THRIFT 181 

HOUSEHOLD THRIFT 

C. F. STODDARD 
Washington, D. C. 

This is a story of thrift in the handling of a part of the family in- 
come — that portion which is given to the wife to meet the expenses 
of the table. Out of the $30 which my wife receives at the begirming 
of each month she feeds two people and manages to save an average of 
$8. The expenditure for food has been as high as $30 per month; it 
has been as low as $18; the average is $22. I shall not attempt to tell 
in detail how this money is spent, but merely suggest a few ways in 
which the resources are conserved. What she is doing almost any one 
can do who cares to make the effort. It means some inconvenience — 
watching for bargains in food, walking a little further for the sake of 
getting an article cheaper and then carrying it home one's self, buying 
without a telephone, canning one's own fruit and making jelly on 
hot summer days, and in other ways finding and stopping the house- 
hold leaks. 

There is in this city a chain of grocery stores which sell at a re- 
duction of from I cent to 3 or 4 cents the same provisions that may 
be purchased in other stores. They do not deliver. A large portion of 
our food is bought at one of these stores, and from a comparative 
record which I have kept I find that the average saving has been 80 
cents per month. On some articles, including meats, there is no re- 
duction and these are therefore purchased at the regular prices at a 
market not far from our home. Here a saving of 5 per cent is effected 
on all purchases by preserving the cash register receipts — not a large 
item, but sufficient to stop a leak which is usually disregarded. 

It is more economical for us to can fruit and make jelly than to pur- 
chase them. For instance, even with sugar at 7| cents per pound (it 
was bought for 7^ cents at one of the chain stores when it was 8 cents 
at all other stores), and including the cost of the jars and glasses, which 
of course should not be included every year, the fruit has averaged 15 
cents a pint and the jelly 6| cents a glass. Not including the con- 
tainers, the average has been approximately 11 cents and 4f cents, re- 
spectively. You can hardly get the very cheapest canned fruit and 
jeUies at these prices. Even including the labor the cost is much less 
than that of a commercial product that would compare in quality. 

It is impracticable to estimate the saving effected by the use of a 



182 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [April 

small oven which fits over the gas burner instead of using the large gas 
oven; by covering the ice with a chemically prepared cloth, which costs 
13 cents, thus reducing the ice bill; by purchasing round steak at 28 
cents, grinding it and making a meat loaf which lasts 3 or 4 meals, 
instead of buying sirloin at 30 cents or veal chops at 35 cents, as many 
do, and having only enough for one or at most two meals. 

But the best part of this thrift program is the disposition of the $8, 
more or less, which has been saved out of the $30. One half of this 
amount is regularly deposited in a building and loan association which 
pays 6 per cent interest, and during the five years of our married life 
the balance has grown to more than $200. A portion of the other half 
was used to purchase a 5 per cent industrial bond (this was before the 
days of the Liberty Bond), while the balance is now drawing 4 per 
cent interest in a savings bank for use in an emergency such as sickness. 

In this connection I might add that I have a dime bank into which 
I drop 10 cents every day I walk to and from the office (3| miles each 
way), this amount being called our "Christmas fund" for the purchase 
of gifts. Last year this scheme yielded us $20. Also, at the end of 
each week every penny I find in my pockets goes into a tin box. In this 
way I accumulated about $3 last year, which was deposited in the sav- 
ings account when I had saved an even dollar. Another way in which 
I have accumulated a small sum is by putting aside each year a num- 
ber of pennies equal to my age. My father started this when I was born 
and I have continued it ever since I have been earning money, and 
expect to continue till death. At present the amount is approximately 
$7 and draws 6 per cent interest. 



"A NASTY THING CALLED FAMINE" 

"The food wanted by mankind does not exist. The word shortage is 
not strong enough for the situation. To put the matter bluntly, the 
whole world is up against a nasty thing, familiar to the people of India, 
called /a wiwe." 

Lord Rhondda, 
British Food Controller. 



1918] WHEAT FLOUR ALLOWANCE 183 

THE WHEAT FLOUR ALLOWANCE 

The Food Administration has ruled that the use of wheat must be 
limited to 1| pounds a week for each person in order that the abso- 
lutely necessary amounts be sent abroad, and that in the individual 
household it makes no difference whether the wheatless days or meals be 
observed provided the total amount of wheat is not exceeded. Many 
housekeepers, in order to know how best to regulate their use of wheat 
products, want to know exactly how much they are serving. 

The following statements give different ways of distributing the 
allowance as well as the amount of wheat that goes into the ordinary 
servings. From these one may determine how to use the wheat to best 
meet one's especial needs. 

It should be remembered too that a great many people should use less 
wheat than is allowed, and a large number should go without it alto- 
gether. Five hundred of the most influential hotels in the country have 
agreed to serve no wheat till the next harvest. One county in Texas has 
promised to use no wheat. Every householder who can join in this ' 'no 
wheat" movement is contributing just so much toward winning the war. 
Indeed it is diificult to understand how any one who knows how serious 
the situation really is can possibly do anything else than give up wheat 
entirely. 

Group 1. For those using the full allowance in the form of If pounds 
of Victory bread, and \ pound of flour in other forms. 

Bread allowance. 1} pounds Victory Bread = 1 pound of wheat flour. This amount is 

equal to \ pound or four 1-ounce slices per day. 

ounces 
Breakfast cereals. One ready-to-serve, or one to-be-cooked, 2 servings per week. ... 2 
Other wheat products. Macaroni or spaghetti, 1 serving per week 1 

Crackers, (2 saltines), 1 serving per week 

Soups. Thickened cream soups, 2 servings per week 

Sauces and gravies. Used once each day 

Muffins. (50-50), or griddle cakes (2 as a senang = \ ounce) 2 servings per week. 

Biscuits. (50-50) (2 as a serving = J ounce) 2 servings per week 

Cake. (50-50) 3 servings per week \ 

Pie. (one crust 50-50) 2 servings per week \ 

Total T 

Group 2. For those using total allowance in form of Victory Bread. 
2f pounds Victory Bread = two 1-ounce slices per meal = 1| pounds 
wheat flour. 



184 THE J0U31NAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [April 

No flour to be used for cooking or as macaroni, crackers, pastry, cakes, 
as wheat breakfast cereals, or to thicken soups, sauces, and gravies. 

Group 3. For those who wish to serve by saving more than is asked. 
Wheatless days and meals observed Hterally, by making mufhns, griddle 
cakes, and other hot breads with 100 per cent substitutes or by using 
potatoes, rice, and hominy instead of bread. 

Bread allowance. (11 wheatless meals in week) 10 meals using two 1-ounce slices Victory 
Bread per meal = 20 ounces = 1 1 J ounces wheat flour. 

Additional wheat products. Choose from the list, showing the wheat flour in average 
servings of foods, those which contain the smaller amounts of wheat flour. Omit entirely such 
products as wheat breakfast cereals which are e.xtravagant in their use of wheat. 

AMOUNT OF WHEAT FLOUR IN AVERAGE SERVINGS 

Breakfast Cereals Wheat Floui 

Ready-to-serve ounces 

Rolled flakes — 1| cup — 2 servings 1 

Shredded wheat biscuit (1) 1 

Granular (e.g., grapenuts) \ cup 1 

To-be-cooked 

RoUed flakes, i cup cooked, \ cup uncooked 1 

Granular (e.g. cream of wheat, farina, etc.), 5 cup cooked, j cup uncooked 1 

Macaroni or spaghetti, \ cup cooked, j cup uncooked 1 

Noodles, 1 tablespoon J 

Bread, 1 ounce slice (3x3xj) \ 

Crackers, (all wheat) 2 saltines J 

Biscuit, (50-50 rule) one medium biscuit (6 from 1 cup flour) J 

Muffins, (50-50 rule) one mufSn, (6 from 1 cup flour) \ 

Cake, (50-50 rule) one medium serving (24 servings from 3 cups flour recipe) \ 

Pie, one crust, (50-50 rule) one serving (6 servings from f cup) \ 

Soups and stews, (e.g., thickened cream soups) soups, 1 cup serving, 1 tablespoon 

flour \ 

Sauces, (in creamed and scalloped vegetables, gravies, croquettes, etc.). j cup serving 

5 tablespoon flour 5 



1918] UNTIL THE NEXT HARVEST 185 

UNTIL THE NEXT HARVEST 

USE \\-HEATLESS BREADS AND CAKES 

From the Experimental Kitchen, Home Conservation Division, United 
States Food Administration 

WHEATLESS SPONGE CAKES 

Barley Sponge Cake Corn (Flour) Sponge Cake 

4 eggs 4 eggs 

1 tablespoon lemon juice 2 tablespoons lemon juice 

J teaspoon salt J teaspoon salt 

1 cup sugar 1 cup sugar 

1\ cups barley flour 1 cup com flour 

Oat Sponge Cake Rice Sponge Cake 

4 eggs 4 eggs 

1 tablespoonful lemon juice 2 tablespoons lemon juice 

I teaspoon salt J teaspoon salt 

1 cup sugar 1 cup sugar 

J cup oat flour f cup rice flour 
i cup com flour 

Directions: Beat the yolks of the eggs till thick and lemon colored; 
add the sugar gradually, with the salt and lemon juice and beat thor- 
oughly. Then add the stifBy beaten whites and the sifted flour and 
fold them in lightly. Bake in an ungreased pan for thirty-five to forty 
minutes in a moderate oven (365° F.). The temperature may be raised 
slightly during the last half of the baking (to 400° F.). 

These cakes follow the old-fashioned rule of "the weight of the eggs 
in sugar and half their weight in flour" (pastry flour). They have 
been made over and over again and have received the approval of a 
large number of people. They are all very nice and light, with tex- 
ture and color good. The barley has its characteristic flavor. The 
corn cake is especially tender. The extra lemon juice used with the 
rice and corn covers up the starchy taste so often found with these 
flours. 

In place of the oat flour, rolled oats run through a food chopper 
may be used. This may be sifted if a fine flour is desired. 



186 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [April 

BAKING POWDER LOAF BREADS 
Barley and Oat Bread 

1 cup liquid 6 teaspoons baking powder 
4 tablespoons fat 1 teaspoon salt 

4 tablespoons syrup 2 cups (5 ounces) barley flour 

2 eggs 1 cup (5 ounces) ground rolled oats 

Directions: Mix the melted fat, liquid, sirup, and egg. Combine 
the liquid and well mixed dry ingredients. Bake as a loaf in a moder- 
ately hot oven (400° F. or 205°C.) for one hour or imtil thoroughly 
baked. 

Nuts, raisins or dates may be added if desired. The loaf should not 
stand after mixing. 

OTHER COMBINATIONS 

One and one-third cups (5 ounces) of corn flour may be used in 
place of the barley flour, giving an Oat and Corn Flour Bread. Since 
this is a little dry, it is much improved by the addition of raisins or 
raisins and nuts. Corn Flour and Buckwheat Bread may be made by 
using 1^ cups (5 ounces) of corn flour and one cup (5 ounces) of 
buckwheat flour. 

COMPARATIVE WEIGHTS AND MEASURES 

Reprinted from the March Journal -with corrections 



WEIGHT 
IN GRAMS 



APPRO.KIMATE 

NUMBER OF 

OUNCES 



1 cup white bread flour 113 4 

1 cup pastry flour 100 5\ 

1 cup barley flour 76 3 

1 cup buckwheat flour 11 5 

1 cup corn flour 109 4 

1 cup rice flour 131 5 

1 cup cornmeal iine 114 4 

1 cup cornmeal coarse 130 5 

1 cup rolled oats 75 3 

1 cup fine granulated oats or 1 cup ground rolled oats run through 

food chopper 136 5 

The new flours and meals are not yet standardized and they vary- 
so greatly in character that it is difficult to establish an exact relation 
between their measure and weight. As has been said before, in cakes, 
muffins, and baking powder mixtures, repeated experiments have shown 
that they can be substituted successfully for equal weights of white 
flour. Combinations of difTerent flours seem for some reason often to be 
more satisfactory than the use of one flour. 



EDITORIAL 

Home Service Work of the Red Cross. The following resolution 
was passed at the meeting of the Association in Atlantic City: 

The American Home Economics Association in convention assembled 
wishes to extend to Mr. Persons of the American Red Cross its appre- 
ciation of his contribution to the program and its desire to cooperate in 
the important work of Home Service in the Department of Civilian 
Relief; therefore be it 

Resolved, That the President be authorized to appoint a committee 
to draft a statement to be sent to our members after consultation with 
Mr. Persons urging their local cooperation with the Home Service work. 

In accordance with this resolution this call to service has been for- 
mulated: 

AN APPEAL TO EVERY HOME ECONOMICS WORKER 

As a home economics worker you are urged to offer your services to 
your local Red Cross organization in connection with its Home Service 
work as well as in connection with its teaching work and its supply 
service. 

The Home Service Sections have been organized in many chapters as a 
means of carrying on the Red Cross duty of adequately caring for the 
families of men in the service. With the increase in the numbers of 
these men in service will come an increasing need for Home Service work, 
and new Home Service Workers are being constantly enlisted and trained. 

Many of the families of the soldiers and sailors need advice and help 
of the kind which home economics workers are especially well qualified 
to give, such as advice concerning better food habits, better household 
management, better budget planning, better clothing standards. Also 
many of the Home Service Workers need special home economics train- 
ing in order to help them to advise families more wisely. 

Training classes for Home Service Workers are being held by many of 
the Red Cross Chapters, and Home Service Institutes are being held in 
certain cities for the training of specially qualified leaders from various 
chapters so that they may better take charge of local Home Service Work. 

187 



188 THE JOUKNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [April 

In the recommended course for both the training class and the Institute, 
it is plaimed to devote two hours to the discussion of budget planning and 
dietary supervision. If such courses are being given locally, you have a 
definite means of service in connection with this instruction to volunteer 
visitors in certain phases of home economics. In addition your service 
can well be utilized by Home Service Workers for consultation purposes 
and for the preparation of special suggestions to be given by the Home 
Service Worker to famihes under her care. 

If you have time, much service can probably be rendered if you will 
plan with your Home Service Section to visit one or more families 
regularly each week and try to be a good friend to them as well as helping 
them to a higher li\'ing standard. Such work involves special social 
training in addition to home economics training. This may be secured 
in one of the Home Service courses, or much may be learned from the 
following bulletins : ' 'This Side of the Trenches with the American Red 
Cross;" "Home Service;" "Home Service Manual." These may be 
secured free of charge from your local Red Cross Chapter or by appKca- 
tion to the Department of Civilian ReUef, American Red Cross, Wash- 
ington, D. C. Here also may be secured further information concerning 
opportunities for Home Service work. 

Catharine J. MacKay. 



THE ELLEN H. RICHARDS FELLOWSHIP IN HOME 
ECONOMICS 

The Richards' Fund Trustees have renewed for 1918-19 the coopera- 
tive arrangement with the University of Chicago for the maintenance of 
a fellowship in memory of Mrs. Richards, with a value of $500.00, and in 
addition tuition in the University. 

Applicants must hold the bachelor's degree and be equipped to under- 
take graduate study. Application must be made before June 15 to the 
Office of the Graduate Schools, University of Chicago. 

This is an unusual opportunity for one who wishes to do advanced 
work in household administration or some subject related to home 
economics. 

Miss Minna Denton, formerly instructor at Lewis Institute and at 
Ohio State University, has held the fellowship during this year, working 
on her thesis for her doctor of philosophy degree. 



BOOKS AND LITERATURE 

Any book or periodical mentioned in this department may be obtained tlirougli the 
Journal of Home Economics Lf tlie Journal price is listed. 



Household Management. (Social Work 

Series). By Florence Nesbitt. New 

York: Russell Sage Foundation, 1918, pp. 

169. $0.75. By mail of the Journal, 

$0.80. 

This little book which has just come out 
in the Social Work Series, published by the 
Russell Sage Foundation, edited by Miss 
Mary E. Richmond, is invaluable in the 
present war emergency. It outlines meth- 
ods for the home visitor who seeks to 
improve the standards of living by first- 
hand contact with individual families. .\f ter 
the introductory chapter it discusses in turn 
the following topics: Problems of the 
Visitor to the Home; Aids to Health and 
Household Management; Dietar>' Stand- 
ards; Choice of Foods; Purchase, Prepara- 
tion, and Sen-ing; Housing and Homemak- 
ing. In the appendix are given suggestions 
for a talk on Milk; Special Diet Lists, and 
Average Weights and Heights of Normal 
Children. 

The author. Miss Nesbitt, has a unique ex- 
perience in this field as a member of the staff 
of the United Charities of Chicago and later 
of the Mothers' Pension Department of the 
Chicago Juvenile Court, in which connec- 
tions she was personally dealing at first- 
hand with hundreds of families needing aid 
in raising their standards of living. She is 
at present Director of the Food Conserva- 
tion Section of the Cleveland Council of 
National Defense. 

The book is most timely as it gives a 
practical treatment of the problems which 
food conservation workers are everywhere 
facing. It will be of particular help to the 
Home Service workers of the local Chapters 
of the Red Cross. Home economics workers 



are now being urged as a part of their loca 
service to attach themselves to the local Red 
Cross Chapter in its work with soldiers' 
families. This book will promote such co- 
operation in a successful way. It should 
also prove helpful to home economics 
teachers in cities as a means of giving them 
information concerning the living standards 
in families from which their pupils come. 
B. R. Andrews. 

A H istory of Ornament, Aiti ieni andMedieval. 
By A. D. F. Hamlin. New York: The 
Century Company, 1916, pp. 406. S'3.00. 
At the present time, when so much em- 
phasis is being placed upon the primitive 
designs of .\merica, household art teachers 
are interested in thi- book by Professor 
Hamlin. In the introduction the author 
points out that "in this volume attention is 
directed to the origin and development of the 
historic styles of ornament, all the various 
motives, kinds, and types of ornament of 
each country and period being considered 
in discussing the style of that time and re- 
gion." He has covered the subject very 
systematically and completely. The first 
chapter is devoted to primitive and savage 
ornament followed by chapters on Egyptian, 
Chaldean, .'\ssyrian, Pre-Hellenic Greek, 
Etruscan, Roman, Pompeiian, Early Chris- 
tian, Byzantine, Romanesque, and Gothic. 
Under the various developments the author 
has discussed the people and enough of the 
history to make the setting clear; the gen- 
eral characteristics of that particular style 
of decoration; the various motives used and 
the origin and development of each. 

The descriptions and illustrations are not 
confined to architecture but cover all the 
189 



190 



THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS 



[April 



applications peculiar to the period. The 
Gothic includes wood carving, metal work, 
textiles, tiles, manuscripts, and stained glass 
windows but with the emphasis upon archi- 
tectural decoration. 

The book is completely indexed with a list 
of some 400 illustrations. The illustrations 
are conveniently arranged for use as refer- 
ence material. 

Mabel Russell, 
Household Arts Instructor, 
Iowa State College. 

A Manual of Household Accounts. Includ- 
ing Complete Instructions, Illustrative 
Figures, and Forms for Actual Use Cov- 
ering Three Years. By J. Chester 
Crandell, C.P..\. and Mercy Frye 
Craxdell. Boston: Whitcomb and Bar- 
rows. 1917. pp. 24. + account forms. 
$2.00. By mail of the Journal, $2.15. 
This book is a real cc ntribution to the lit- 
erature of household accounts as it provides 
a method of putting the financial record of 
a family into complete accounting form, 
which makes it possible to summarize 
one's financial situation, "as to cash receipts 
and payments, as to income and to expen- 
diture," and also as to a balance sheet show- 
ing "assets and liabilities." These sum- 
maries are the end point in all business 
bookkeeping, but so far, in the account 
books on the market, household accounting 
has been almost exclusively a record of 
money received and spent currently, and the 
summaries pro\ided have simply been 
monthly and annual recapitulations of cash 
actually received and spent. 

It is quite another matter to bring into 
the household financial record such changes in 
value as depreciation, wear and tear, and to 
take account of accrued income which has 



not yet been received, and of current debts 
which have not yet been paid , and of advance 
payments which have been made during the 
present period of time but which in reality 
cover expenditures following in the future pe- 
riods, as is the case, for example, with fire in- 
surance which is generally paid in three-year 
periods in advance. 

As to household accounts, in their relation 
to property values, like real estate, and to 
standing debts, like mortgages, they have 
never brought in such accounts except in 
cumbersome ledger and journal method. 
The Crandell Manual presents all this in a 
remarkably simple and intelligible form. One 
is encouraged to keep one's cash records of 
receipts and payments by whatever method 
one has used in the past, but one transfers 
the summaries of such cash records at the 
end of the month to the Crandell Manual 
where they become part of a systematic 
accounting record. 

The Crandell book provides blanks for 
three years' accounts, so that it is a perma- 
nent household record of much value. 

It should prove very useful as a text book 
in household accounting courses, in pre- 
senting briefly a \-iew of bookkeeping sci- 
ence applied completely to the household — 
providing for records of all income and ex- 
penses, whether in the form of cash, credit, 
or of changing values, and also of all re- 
sources and liabilities of the household 
partnership. 

Every college department of home eco- 
nomics should give a thorough course in 
household accounts, which should give a 
complete view of bookkeeping applied to the 
home as well as of simple cash records of 
various types. This text will greatly help 
in such a course. 

B. R. Andrews, 
Teachers College, New York City. 



1918] BOOKS AND LITERATURE 191 

BOOKS RECEIVED 

The Belgian Cook-Book. Edited by Mrs. Brian Luck. New York: E. P. Dutton and Com- 
pany, 1915, pp. 151. Sl.OO. 

Fifty Liberty Recipes. Compiled by .\melia Doddridge. Indianapolis: W. K. Stewart 
Company, 1917, pp. 22. S.35. 

Food: Fuel for the Human Engine. Eugene Lyman Fisk, M.D. New York: Funk and 
Wagnalls Company, 1917, pp. 77. Paper, $.75. 

Furniture of the Olden Time. Frances Clary Morse. New York: The MacmiUan Co., 1917, 
pp. 470. S6.00. 

Health First. Henr>- Dwight Chapin, M.D. New York: The Century Company, 1917, pp. 
221. S1.50. 

The High School Cookery Book. Grace Bradshaw. London: Longmans, Green and Com- 
pany, 1916, pp. 266. S.90. 

Historic Silver of the Colonies and its Makers. Francis Hill Bigelow. New York : The Mac- 
millan Company, 1917, pp. 444. S6.00. 

Industrial Arithmetic for Girls. Nelson L. Roray. Philadelphia: P. Blakiston's Son and 
Company, 1917, pp. 196. S.75. 

Manual of Milk Products. William A. Stocking. New York : The Macmillan Company, 
1917, pp. 578. S2.00. 

A Manual of Personal Hygiene. George D. Bussey. Boston: Ginn and Company, 1917, 
pp. 156. S.60. 

Modern Dietetics. Lulu Graves. St. Louis: Modem Hospital Publishing Company, 1917, 
pp. 226. S2.00. 

Official Recipe Book. Chicago: The Illinois State Council of Defense, 120 W. Adams Street, 
1917, pp. 72. Paper S.IO. 

The Starvation Treattnent of Diabetes. Lewis Webb HUl, M.D. and Rena S. Eckman. Bos- 
ton: W. M. Leonard, 1917, pp. 133. $1.25. 

War Nursing. .\ Te.xt-book for Auxiliary Nurses. Minnie Goodnow, R.N. Philadelphia: 
W. B. Saunders Company, 1917, pp. 172. $1.50. 

BIBLIOGRAPHY OF HOME ECONOMICS 

PERIODICAL LITERATURE 

Foods and Cookery 

Bread from Unusual Flours. Elizabeth Sprague and Ethel Loflin, Amer. Food Jour., 
Dec. 1917. 

Edible Fats. J. A. Wesener and G. L. Teller, Mod. Hasp., Jan . 1918. 

Sa\'ing Sugar for our Allies. E. T. and L Brewster, Nat. Food Magazine, Dec. 1917. 

Are Fruits and \'egetables Luxuries? Mary S. Rose, Farmer's Wife, Jan. 1918. 

Our Food and Our Bodies. H. E. Barnard, Nal. Food Magazine, Jan. 1918. 

Food Conservation and the Servant Problem. Florence Clarke, Amer. Cookery, Jan. 1918. 

What Has Become of the Banana? Mar>' Dudderidge, The Forecast, Oct. 1917. 

The .Apotheosis of the Goober Pea. J. B. Harrington, The Forecast, Oct. 1917. 

The Food Surplus of South America. Geo. B. Roorback, /ournoi of Geography, Dec. 1917. 

Butter and Fat. Country Life, Dec. 1917. 

Canning a Way to Market. Randall Howard, The Country Gentleman, Jan. 5, 1918. 

Sugar Beet Supremacy. George Frederic Stratte, The Country Gentleman, Jan. 5, 1918. 

Wanted: A Program for Food Production. E. Davenport, The Country Gentleman, Jan. 
26, 1918. 



192 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [April 

Corn to the Rescue. Harvey W. Wiley, Good Housekeeping, January, 1918. 
Patriotism Calls for Corn Bread. Caroline B. King, Good Housekeeping, Jan. 191S. 
Milk. Harvey W. Wiley, Good Housekeeping, Feb. 1918. 
War Bread. Irene Weed, TIte House Beautiful, January, 1918. 

NuTRinoN 

The New Dietetics in Acute lUness. Lilian Brewster, Nal. Food Magazine, Jan. 1918. 
The Elementary Terms of Nutrition. J. P. Street, Mod. Hosp., Jan. 1918. 

MiSCELLANEODS 

Mobilizing the Women. Ida Tarbell, Harpers, Nov. 1917. 

War Work of College Women in the West. T. D. \. Cockerel!, School and Society, Dec. 
15, 1917. 

The War and the Schools. Indus. Arts Magazine, Oct., Nov., Dec. 1917, and Jan. 1918. 

Problems of Social Relief in Russia. C.-E. A. Winslow, Survey, Dec. 1, 1917. 

Mothers and Night Work. Mary McDowell, Survey, Dec. 22, 1917. 

Girls and Khaki. Some Practical Measures of Protection for Young Women in Time of 
War. Sumy, Dec. 1, 1917. 

Mothered by the City. An Appraisal of the Child-placing Work of the New York Chil- 
dren's Home Bureau. Winthrop D. Lane, Survey, Jan. 19, 1918. 

The Housing of War Workers. Bruno Lasker, Survey, Jan. 5, 1918. 

Gretchen of Hildesheim. The .American Playground as an Antidote to German Mili- 
tarism. C. M. Goethe, Survey, Jan. 5, 1918. 

The Other Side of Panama. Some Little Known Conditions of Child Life in South 
America. Edward N. Clopper, Survey, Jan. 5, 1918. 

Hospital Finance Related to Housekeeping. Mary L. Keith, Amer. Jour. Nursing, Jan. 
1918. 

The Standardization of the Work and Training of the Dietitian. Rena S. Eckman, Mod. 
Hosp., Jan. 1918. 

Vocational Guidance Through the Life Career Class. J. M. Brewer, School and Society, 
Nov. 1917. 

Vocational G uidance in the Technical High School, Fall River, Mass. R. W. Kelly 
School and Society, Dec. 1, 1917. 

Vocational Placement. W. K. Layton, Educational Administration and Supen'ision, Nov. 
1917. 

Manual Training Should Function in the Home. Joseph Eagan, Man. Tr. Magazine, 
Jan. 1918. 

Japanese Influences in Industrial Art. T. O'Donnell, Indus. Arts Moiazitu, Dec. 1917 
and Jan. 1918. 

The Fireplaces of Yesterday and Today. Mary H. Northend, Amer. Cookery, Jan. 1918. 

Attractive Bungalows. Charles .Alma Byers, Mothers Magazine, Feb. 1918. 

The Modern School Dress as an Eighth-Grade Problem. Edna J. Benson, Indus. Arts 
Magazine, Feb. 1918. 

Analytic Textile Weaving (for grades I-IV). S. E. E. Hammond, /n(i»5. Arts Magazine, 
Feb. 1918. 

Efficiency in the Kitchen. Winnifred S. Fales, Mothers Magazine, Feb. 1918. 

The Cult of Tea. Churchill Ripley, Mothers Magazine, Feb. 1918 . 

Managing Your Week's Work. Helen Bennett, Pictorial Review, Feb. 1918. 



NEWS FROM THE FIELD 



Farmers' Week at Ohio State Univer- 
sity, January 28 - February 1, proved suc- 
cessful notwithstanding the congested trans- 
portation, the intense cold weather, and 
shortage of labor on the farms. 

The meeting was opened with an address 
of welcome by President Thompson in joint 
session with the men. Interest centered on 
the problems which have arisen out of the 
present world war. It was a war week. 
Opportunity was afforded those in attend- 
ance to learn what the women of Ohio can 
do and are doing to help win the war. 
Emphasis was placed upon the necessity of 
the organization and cooperation of all the 
orces in each community. It was urged 
that women cooperate with the organization 
in e.idstence and thus avoid duplication of 
effort. 

The main subjects presented in the meet- 
ings were production, conservation, thrift, 
the Red Cross, and child welfare. Con- 
servation of food and clothing were pre- 
sented by lecture, demonstration, and ex- 
hibit. An exhibit entitled "The road to 
food conser\'ation" showed six weeks menus 
in which were eighteen wheatless, fourteen 
meatless, seventeen fryless, and twenty- 
one pieless meals. Child welfare posters 
were displayed; infants, small children's 
and school children's clothes illustrated, and 
new clothes from old were shown at various 
stages of progress. 

Red Cross work was presented through an 
exhibit of surgical dressings, hospital gar- 
ments, and knitting. Dr. Hagerty, head of 
the Department of Economics and Sociology 
who has been called from the University to 
Red Cross ser\-ice told of the work of the Red 
Cross in its dual activities, i.e., military and 
civilian relief. 

Exhibits of available literature on timely 
subjects, and picture and picture hanging 



also formed a part of the program for the 
week. 

In the last hour of the session President 
Thompson re\iewed the present situation of 
our country and the world in which the war 
has developed a new condition which is more 
closely related to the food situation than we 
had believed possible. He also recalled the 
part which the women of the countries have 
taken in this crisis and must continue to take, 
especially in the conservation of the world's 
goods. 

Throughout the week splendid interest 
was manifested in the ways and means of 
rendering the greatest service to our people 
and allies. 

The Connecticut Home Economics 
Association met at the Hartford High 
School on Saturday, February 16, in connec- 
tion with the regular meeting of the Connec- 
ticut State Teachers Association, with the 
President, Mrs. Edith Hatch Brown, of 
Boston, in charge. 

Mr. E. G. Routzahn, of the Russell Sage 
Foundation, and Mr. Guy C. Smith, of the 
Bureau of Markets, gave addresses. 

Mr. Robert ScoviUe, Federal Food .Ad- 
ministrator, spoke on Food Conservation 
in Connecticut, and Mrs. Mary Schenck 
Woolman on clothing. The remainder of the 
afternoon was given over to the following 
sectional meetings: 

Teachers Section, Chairman, Miss Cathe- 
rine B. Case; Home Section, Chainuan, Miss 
Annie I. Robertson; Institutional Manage- 
ment, Chairman, Miss Orissa M. Baxter; 
Social Workers, Chairman, Miss Sara Hol- 
brook. 

.\n exhibit illustrated the uses of meat, fat, 
sugar, and wheat substitutes, and restored 
dried foods. 

Every woman interested in the great and 
193 



194 



THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS 



[April 



vital problem of "The Home" was welcomed 
at the meeting. 

PROGR,\M 

Teachers^ Section. Mr. Guy C. Smith, Field 
Agent in Marketing, Connecticut Agricul- 
ture CoUege; Cooperation of Domestic 
Science Teachers with the E.xtension Work, 
Miss M. E. Sprague, Connecticut Home 
Economics Director; How to Correlate the 
Art and Sewing Departments, Miss Iva 
Abby, Hartford; Sewing in the Grammar 
Schools, Miss Florence Chapin, Hartford; 
Vocational Cookery, Miss Mabel Gessner, 
New Haven; How the Lunch Counter Pays 
Its Way, Miss Margaret Robinson, Meriden. 
Visit to Hartford High School Cooking and 
Sewing rooms where Mrs. Juanita M. Dean 
and Miss .Annie I. Robertson explained the 
High School Courses and the method of 
carrying on the Red Cross work in the school. 

Homcmakcrs' Section. Two papers were: 
The Place of the Home Economics Teacher 
in the Community, Miss M. E. Spiague, 
Chairman State Home Economics .Associa- 
tion; The Homemaker's Place in the Home 
Economics Association, Mrs. E. H. Brown, 
President Connecticut Home Economics 
Association. 

The Annual Session of the Alabama 
Home Economics Association was held at 
the Alabama Girls Technical Institute at 
Montevallo, .Vlabama, on the first and second 
days of February. Among the speakers 
were Miss Anna Richardson, Field Agent for 
Home Economics of the Federal Board for 
Vocational Education; Mr. R. E. Tidwell, 
Director of Institutes for the State Depart- 
ment of Education; and Mr. R. H. Mangum, 
Director of Public Information of the United 
States Food .Administration for .Alabama. 

American Home Economics Associa- 
tion. The officers elected at the .Atlantic City 
Meeting are: President, Catharine J. Mac- 
Kay; Vice President, Isabel Bevier; Secre- 
tary, Cora Winchell; Treasurer, H. Gale 
Turpin. 



Notes. As a part of the general food con- 
seri'ation program the students of the de- 
partment of home economics of the Univer- 
sity of Montana prepared for display in a 
downtown window in Missoula samples of 
good things to eat made with substitutes for 
sugar. Displays were made of substitutes 
for wheat, for fats, and for meat. The 
faculty of the department is in charge. 

The Department of Home Economics of 
the State University of Montana is now 
requiring that its students take a course in 
news writing given under the auspices of the 
Montana School of Journalism. 



Mrs. .Ann Gilchrist Strong was granted a 
year's leave of absence by the University of 
Cincinnati, and in September she sailed for 
India. Here she is studying food conditions 
and planning to introduce work in home 
economics in the schools and to inaugurate 
modem methods in the palaces and insti- 
tutions. She is working under the Minister 
of Education. 



Miss Mary F. Rausch, assistant professor 
of home economics in the extension division 
at the University of Washington, died at 
the Seattle General Hospital, February 21. 

Miss Rausch went to the University of 
Washington in the fall of 1914. Through 
lectures, demonstrations, and printed material 
she has been able to reach thousands of 
women throughout the state in the interest 
of efficient home management. Miss Rausch 
studied at the Iowa State College and became 
the head of the home economics department 
in the State .Agricultural College of Colorado. 
She left Colorado on account of her health 
and traveled for several years in Europe, 
studying methods of household management. 
Upon returning to .America she took charge of 
the home economics department of the high 
school in New Rochelle, N. Y., and from 
there accepted the appointment at the 
University of Washington. 



Vol. X, .\o. 5 May, 1918 

THE 

Journal of Home Economics 

For those interested in Homemaking, Institution Management, 
and Educational Worlc in Home Economics 

Mrs. Alice P. NoRioif, EAitor Keicrah E. Baldot;;, Managing Editor 

Editorial Board 
Mrs.' Maby H. Abel Anna'Barrows C. F. Langvvorvby Isabel Ely Lord Katharine Blunt 

Ez-OMcio J/rmifrs— Catharine J. MacKay, President .American Home Economics Association 
EiiiiA H. GtJNTBER, Chairman Institution Economics Section 
Ruth Wheeler. Chairman Science Section 
Xe.\le S. Kkowles, Chairman Extension Education Section 

CoUaboralors— The Officers. Members of the Council, and Advisors 



CONTENTS 

Volunteer W.ar G.^kden Army" Frontispiece 

What to Te.\ch the Public Regarding Food Values . . E. V. McCoUum 195 

Americanism the Spirit of Costume Design ....'.. .''. .■ . . Ethelwyn Miller 207 

A Quick Method of C.alcul.\tixg Food Values .... . .... Caroline L. Hunt 212 

For the Homem.\ker ic I,.,, i . •!■ 

Modifying Yoltr Cook Book to M,eet Present Conditions .... Alice Bradley 219 

A CoMp.vRisoN Between Canning and Drying . .' '. 'Edith Allen and Jenoise Short 223 
Time Required for Housework in a Family op 'Five With Small Children . . . 

Marion Woodbury 226 

Editorial 231 

The Question Box • ■ 232 

Comment ant) Discussion 234 

Books .and Literature . . 235 

Bibliography of Home Economics . . .■ . 239 

News from the Field , 241 



The JovBNAi OF Home Economics is published monthly by the American Home Economics .Association. 

52.00 A YEAR. FOREIGN J2.35. CANADIAN $2.20. SINGLE COPIES 25 CENTS 

HOW TO REMIT. Remittances should be sent by Check. Express Order or Postal Money Order, payable to the 
American Heme Economics Association. Currency, unless mailed in a registered letter, is at the sender's risk. 

NOTICE. \\ ben payment is made by check no receipt will be sent unless requested. 
" CHANGE IN ADDRESS. Notice of chance in address should be sent Two Weeks before the date of issue on which 
the change is to take effect. The subscriber's Old Address should be clearly indicated in addition to the New Address. 

AMERICAN HOME ECONOMICS ASSOCIATION 1211 Cathedr.u, St., B.^ltimore, Md. 

Entered as second class matter at the Baltimore Post OiBce 

TbeJodrnalot Home Economics is on sale at John Wanamaker's, Philadelphia; The Old Corner Book Store, Boston 

A. C. McClure's. ChicaKo; Baltimore News Company. Baltimore; Woodward and Lothrop. Washington 



"VOLUNTEER WAR GARDEN ARMY" 

In his letter, which follows, the President approves the design of 
Secretary Lane to arouse the school children of the United States to 
"as real and patriotic an effort as the building of ships or the firing of 
cannon:" 

My dear Mr. Secretary: 

I sincerely hope that you may be successful through the Bureau of 
Education in arousing the interest of teachers and children in the schools 
of the United States in the cultivation of home gardens. Every boy and 
girl who really sees what the home garden may mean will, I am sure, 
enter into the purpose with high spirits, because I am sure they would 
all like to feel that they are in fact fighting in France by joining the 
home garden army. They know that America has undertaken to send 
meat and flour and wheat and other foods for the support of the soldiers 
who are doing the lighting, for the men and women who are making the 
munitions, and for the boys and girls of Western Europe, and that we 
must also feed ourselves while we are carrying on this war. The move- 
ment to establish gardens, therefore, and to have the children work in 
them is just as real and patriotic an elTort as the building of ships or 
the firing of cannon. I hope that this spring every school will have 
a regiment in the Volunteer War Garden Army. 
Cordially and sincerely yours, 

(signed) Woodrow Wilson. 

Hon. Franklin K. Lane, 
Secretary of the Interior. 



THE 

Journal of Home Economics 

Vol. X MAY, 1918 No. 5 

WHAT TO TEACH THE PUBLIC REGARDING FOOD VALUES' 

E. V. McCOLLUM 
The School of Hygiene and Public Health, Department of Chemistry, Johns Hopkins University 

During the last few years considerable progress has been made in 
the study of nutrition. It is important at this time that we should 
meet to discuss the question of whether or not we can introduce with prof- 
it some of the newer ideas to practical every day Hving. We have un- 
dertaken, as a phase of the work of the Food Administration, a cam- 
paign for the education of the people generally in the fundamentals of 
nutrition, which is without parallel, and it is important that the sub- 
ject be presented in the best possible way. With a view to aiding in 
the solution of this problem, I want to suggest a new method of presen- 
tation of the subject matter now available in this field. 

The learners in the present campaign are, of course, nearly all women. 
They may be divided into two groups. The first group is composed of 
highly intelligent women, who are, if they have leisure, leaders in the 
improvement of conditions in their communities. These women are, 
in many instances, not only able and anxious to learn what is the best 
practice in the selection of foods and their preparation, but want to 
know the reason for what they learn to do. These women should be 
taught what they want to know, and they should be made sources of 
authority to others in their neighborhood. The problem of equipping 
them not only with subject matter but with a method of adapting this 
to presentation to the second group is a very vital one. 

The second group consists of women who are not capable of making 
application of abstract knowledge of food values to their own dietaries, 

' Presented at the Tenth Annual Meeting of the American Home Economics Asso- 
ciation, Atlantic City, March 1, 1918. 

195 



196 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [May 

but need to be told concretely what to do. In their instruction the 
"reason why" when useful at all serves merely to lend vividness and 
dignity to the arbitrary dictum of what to do, and cannot be relied 
upon to furnish a basis for independent applications. 

It is the first group of women that the Food Administration aims to 
reach through the conservation courses now being instituted everywhere 
in colleges. Through them, mainly, the second group will be reached. 
The effectiveness of the instruction of this second group, who consti- 
tute the largest factor in the actual saving of certain foods, will depend 
in large measure upon the point of view imparted to the leaders in the 
conservation classes. It is among these, after all, that the keenest 
necessity for knowledge exists, in order that they may properly plan 
dietaries for those for whom they purvey. 

I would not suggest an abandonment of the classification of foods on 
the basis of chemical composition. We must have a language of nutri- 
tion, and must use the terms protein, carbohydrate, fat, and mineral ele- 
ments, as we have been doing. Students should be taught which foods 
are low and which are high in protein, and should become familiar with 
the approximate amount of available energy of each of the different types 
of foods. I have thought a great deal about the possibility of formulat- 
ing ten or twelve commandments of nutrition, which, if committed to 
memory and obeyed in the selection of food, would make the body a 
restful abode for the soul. One cannot hope now to formulate such 
knowledge as is desirable in a form which could possibly remain long 
without need of revision, for the subject of nutrition is still a growing 
one ; yet, I am tempted to undertake to offer a few generalizations which 
will help to guide in the proper selection of food. Before stating these, 
I want to briefly call attention to several matters which should occupy 
the attention of teachers of the science of nutrition. 

One of the outstanding results of modern research in nutrition is the 
great differences in the biological values of the proteins from different 
sources. In a general way this fact is appreciated by nearly all teachers 
of today, but many are stUl in need of clearer distinctions regarding 
what data in the literature is capable of direct application to practical 
nutrition, and what is of such a nature that it cannot be so apphed. No 
lack of appreciation of the data of the latter type is intended, for it 
may have, and frequently has, a value of the first importance to the 
investigator in this field. As an example may be cited the laborious 
studies through which the amino-acids became known, and the data 



1918] WHAT TO TEACH REGARDING FOOD VALITES 197 

3aelded by such methods of analysis of the proteins as those of Fischer 
and Van Slyke. Important as these results are in making possible 
further progress, they are not of such a nature that they apply, as they 
have been frequently apphed, to deductions concerning comparative 
food values. It is through these results that we have arrived at a 
valid working hypothesis concerning the nature of the proteins, and 
have been able to appreciate why the proteins are not all of equal value. 
It is, however, but a fraction of the total number of the amino-acids of 
proteins that can be determined by these methods in a manner approxi- 
mating a quantitative way. An attempt to utilize the figures for the 
yields of this or that amino-acid by this or that protein as evidence of 
the comparative values of the proteins themselves, or the food-stuffs 
from which they are derived, will lead to entirely fallacious deductions. 

Such data for example as are tabulated in the hterature for the yields 
of the different amino-acids, make the pea and bean proteins appear 
superior to those of wheat and corn kernels. Chemical analysis has 
indicated that the proteins of the pea and bean are not one-sided in com- 
position with respect to any amino-acid which can be determined at all 
satisfactorily, and there are none of the essential ones absent entirely. 
In fact, there seem to be such proportions among them as would indicate 
relatively high values for these proteins and would seem to justify the 
characterization of these legume seeds as "the poor man's meat." 
Properly planned feeding experiments were performed to determine 
what is the lowest plane of intake of certain proteins which Just suffices 
to maintain a rat without loss of body weight. When the protein was 
derived solely from these four seeds singly, with the diet otherwise sat- 
isfactorily constituted, the surprising fact was shown that the pea and 
navy bean proteins have but about half the biological value of those of 
the cereal grains. It requires about 6 per cent of wheat or corn pro- 
teins to maintain an animal in body weight, whereas 11 to 12 per cent 
of either navy bean or pea proteins are necessary for this purpose. We 
have been inclined to place too much confidence in the results of chemi- 
cal analysis of foods. We must rely more upon the biological method. 
The latter is, however, not without its pit-falls. 

The great danger in the use of data obtained by biological methods, 
as distinguished from that of chemical methods, lies in Judging which 
experiments are so planned and controlled as to yield results which are 
satisfactory. It would be out of place at this time to attempt to point 



198 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [May 

out specific instances where data which, on appearance in print ap- 
peared to be of extraordinary interest, and seemed to estabUsh new 
view points, but were later shown to be of little value because the plan 
of the experiment was faulty or inadequate in its scope. 

A note of warning should be sounded against an over enthusiastic 
and indiscriminate application of certain types of experimental data 
from feeding experiments with restricted dietaries, especially where 
children are concerned. I have in mind particularly the type of experi- 
ment in which there is a "diet squad," living for a brief period on ra- 
tions which may be entirely inadequate in their make-up for the main- 
tenance of health over a long period. They may not be, however, of 
such a character as to influence the well-being of vigorous men or 
women in the prime of Hfe, especially when the experiments are of but 
short duration. The deductions from such data are of no value, and 
may be pernicious when interpreted to apply to the solution of problems 
relating to the nutrition of the child. 

In some measure the same caution applies to such admirably controlled 
experiments as have been recently described, in which it appeared that 
the nitrogen of the potato is of extraordinary food value. Results 
which have recently been obtained in my laboratory, in which the nitro- 
gen of the potato served as the sole source of this element, and the diets 
were satisfactorily constituted in all other respects, and the element of 
growth or maintenance over a long period was involved, have demon- 
strated to our satisfaction that the nitrogen of the potato is of decidedly 
lower biological value than that of the cereal grains, oats, wheat, and 
corn. Students and teachers who are not themselves closely in touch 
with the experimental procedure, are liable to underestimate the danger 
of error in accepting the results of short experiments. They should fully 
appreciate that it is not safe, with such data as a basis for deductions, 
to make recommendations concerning comparable dietaries for consump- 
tion over a long period of time. Such deductions have not infrequently 
been made, even when the claims of the author as to the scope of ap- 
plication of his data were properly qualified. Some short experiments 
are of great value. It is a fairly common practice in many institutions 
where nutrition is being taught, or dietary problems studied, to have 
groups of students keep records over a period of a week or more of their 
nitrogen intake and output. Such experiments have a real educational 
value, just as has all elementary experimental work, but not infrequently 



1918] ■n'HAT TO TEACH REGARDING FOOD VALTTES 199 

the most unjustifiable deductions concerning the adequacy of the diet 
are drawn from such data. The mistake hes in leaving the student 
with the idea that the results are of greater practical value than they 
really are. The problem for which there is no easy solution, is that of 
acquiring judgment as to the worth of different experimental data. It 
must be admitted that intelligence, interest and wide reading will not 
assure the acquisition of such judgment. It is to be gained only by 
actual experience with the experimental method of study, coupled with 
an amount of critical reflection on the data of others, which will tax the 
strength of the most vigorous and courageous. 

In order to appreciate why it is desirable, for purposes of instruction, 
to adopt a grouping of the natural foods based upon their special dietary 
properties as shown by an elaborate system of feeding experiments, it 
is necessary to fully understand some of the newer viewpoints brought 
out by the more recent researches in nutrition. The importance of 
protein has been in the past emphasized to a degree which minimized the 
importance of all other factors in the diet except energy value. It is 
now clear that the composition and amount of the mineral constituents 
of the food is a matter of very great importance, and that variety and 
wholesomeness in the food supply does not at all assure that this part 
of the diet will be satisfactorily constituted. 

Aside from energy, protein, and inorganic factors, a diet, to be ade- 
quate, must contain two substances, the chemical natures of which are 
as yet unknown. To these I have given the names fat-soluble A and 
water-soluble B. When the diet is satisfactory, except that it lacks the 
fat-soluble A in sufficient amount, animals develop a pecuUar edematous ^ 
condition of the eyes and soon become blind. The addition of the 
missing dietary essential leads to their prompt recovery. This eye 
trouble is a tynpe of xerophthalmia. The fat-soluble A is found most 
abundantly in butter-fat, milk, and egg yolk, and to a lesser extent in 
the leaves of plants. It also is found to some extent in seeds, but is in 
most seeds in too small amount to supply the needs of a growing animal. 
Such foods as are derived from the endosperm of the seeds do not con- 
tain this substance. It is not found in any vegetable fats or oils. Mus- 
cle tissue and the body fats contain very Httle of this substance but the 
glandular organs contain more of it. The water-soluble B is present 
in abundance in all natural foods except those derived from the endo- 
sperm of the seed, e.g., bolted flour, degerminated cornmeal, pohshed 



200 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [May 

rice, starch, sugars, and fats and oils of both animal and vegetable origin. 
When the diet lacks this substance, but may be otherwise adequate, 
experimental beri-beri characterized by paralysis results. 

There are certain general statements which can now be made con- 
cerning the dietary properties of the several classes of natural food- 
stuffs, which seem to me to greatly simphfy the problem of instructing 
students in the wise selection of foods and in making such combinations 
as will assure a safe diet. In so far as the pecuhar quahties of the natural 
foods have been determined with certainty, it is presented in the follow- 
ing summarized form. All students should be thoroughly impressed 
with the following facts: — 

1. That food-stuffs may be logically classified into groups which pos- 
sess special properties, and that certain combinations of these, though 
their composition as shown by chemical analysis may appear good, do 
not give satisfactory results in the nutrition of man and animals. In 
fact, the recent work in the study of nutrition has made possible the 
introduction of a new feature in discussing the properties of foods on the 
basis of the data obtained by the biological method, i.e., their properties 
as revealed by properly planned feeding trials. 

2. It may now be considered definitely established that it is not pos- 
sible to secure adequate human nutrition with diets derived solely from 
seeds, no matter how complex the mixture; nor with combinations of 
seeds with meat; nor with seeds and tubers. All these types of niLxtures 
of sound and wholesome food-stuffs fail to maintain the highest bodily 
efficiency, resistance to disease, and capacity to produce and rear young. 

3. The reasons man and animals do not thrive on a diet derived en- 
tirely from seeds are found (a) in the relatively low inorganic content, 
their deficiencies in this respect being limited to the elements sodium, 
chlorine, and calciimi, and possibly to a slight degree, iron also; (b) in 
the relatively poor biological value of their proteins; and (c) on the low 
content of the unidentified dietary essential, fat-soluble A. The seeds 
fail to supply enough of this substance to support normal well-being 
over a prolonged period. 

A young animal fed on any one of the ordinary seeds such as wheat, 
oats, rye, barley, peas, beans, hemp seed, millet seed, fails to grow. It 
will likewise fail to grow on a mixture of a seed wdth a purified protein 
such as casein; or of seed with such a salt mixture as makes good all the 
deficiencies of its inorganic content. A small amount of growth may be 



1918] ^\-H.\T TO TEACH REGARDING FOOD VALUES 201 

obtained on such seed and salt mixtures in a few cases, but it fails 
to induce even half the normal amount of growth, and reproduction 
will be wanting and the span of life very brief. With mixtures of seed 
and a growth promoting fat, such as butter fat, there is no growth 
whatever. 

When two purified food additions such as protein and salts, protein 
and a growth-promoting fat, or a salt mixture and a growth-promoting 
fat are added to a seed, growth is secured in those cases only in which 
one of the additions is a salt mixture. Even with these, there will be 
practically no reproduction, and the span of life wiU be short — about a 
third or less of the normal life period of the well fed animal in the case 
of the rat. With three purified food additions — protein, salts, and a 
growth-promoting fat — the cereal grains are so supplemented as to be 
complete from the dietary standpoint. 

Since the seeds are aU constituted on the same general plan, it follows 
that it should be impossible to secure adequate nutrition with any mix- 
ture of seeds, and numerous trials have shown that this is the case. The 
protein factor in mixtures of seeds may be of very satisfactory quality in 
some cases, so that with certain seed mixtures the dietary deficiencies 
are reduced to two, viz., the inorganic content and the content of he 
fat-soluble A. 

4. There are two classes of foods, milk and leafy vegetables, which 
should be designated as protecting foods, because they are so constituted 
as to make good the dietary deficiencies of the seeds and tubers which 
nevertheless must always remain our principal sources of energy and an 
important source of our protein and inorganic salt supply. Milk and 
the leafy vegetables have a value which cannot be expressed in terms 
of energy or of protein. They are protecting foods not because they 
furnish elements of mystery which are not to be had in other foods, but 
because they correct the faulty composition of the seeds and tubers and 
the seed products in respect to protein, inorganic salts, ?nd the fat- 
soluble A. 

5. While it is a mistake to derive the diet too largely from the seeds 
of plants, such as wheat, oats, corn, rye, barley, kaffir, peas, beans, pea- 
nuts, it is a still greater mistake to derive the diet too largely f. om 
products prepared from the endosperm of the seeds. In this group are 
bolted flour, degerminated conmieal, polished rice, (rice which has been 
deprived of its germ and bran), starch, sugars, and s3Tups. Such a 
list of foods will not maintain health, even when supplemented with 



202 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [May 

fairly Kberal amounts of meat and fats. This is the tj^pe of diet which 
is being employed in certain parts of the South at the present time, es- 
pecially in those parts where pellagra is prevalent, and is without doubt 
a predisposing factor in the causation of the disease. This conclusion 
is supported b}' the demonstration of Goldberger, that the disease yields 
fairly readily to suitable dietetic measures. The use of liberal amounts of 
tubers such as potatoes and sweet potatoes will not safeguard the health 
of the people living on such a diet. It is likewise not easy for them to 
eat a sufficient amount of the leafy vegetables to correct the faults in 
such a diet. The use of Hberal amounts of milk is the most important 
change which could possibly be made in those regions where pellagra is 
common. Meat does not take the place of mUk in the diet. 

6. The use of milk is the greatest factor of safety in our diet. We 
have been deriving from dairy products in the past about 18 per cent 
of our food supply, the same is true of the leading nations of Europe, 
but some of them, as the Swiss, have used much more milk than we 
have. Do not attempt to compare the cost of milk with that of other 
foods. It is also starting from a wrong premise to compare the cost of 
wheat, corn, oat and rice products, ■svdth that of leafy vegetables, such 
as cabbage, cauliflower, Swiss chard, collards, Brussels sprouts, lettuce, 
celery, spinach, and onions. Look upon these as protective foods and 
eat of them hberally. They should not be considered foods of low value 
because they contain much water and but httle protein, fats, or digesti- 
ble carbohydrates. What they possess of the energy yielding foods and 
proteins are good, but they stand in a class by themselves among the 
vegetable food-stuffs in the character and amount of their mineral con- 
tent (in dry leaves from three to six times that of the seeds) , and in their 
content of the unidentified dietary essential, fat-soluble A. In a gen- 
eral way they supplement the seeds and tubers. 

7. There has during the last six years been a popular belief in the 
existence of a number of substances to which Funk gave the name of 
"vitamines," and concerning which there is at present much miscon- 
ception. It has been proposed, without anything like adequate ex- 
perimental evidence, that there is a considerable nimiber of such sub- 
stances, each serving by its presence in the diet, to protect against a 
certain type of malnutrition, such as beri-beri, scur\'y, pellagra, and 
rickets. Some have likewise postulated the existence of still other sub- 
stances of unknown chemical nature, which are essential for growth 
as contrasted with maintenance. 



1918] VrOAT TO TEACH REGARDING FOOD VALUES 203 

Recent experimental work by the writer and his associates has es- 
tablished the fact that there are in reality but two such unidentified 
chemical substances which are physiologically indispensable. These we 
call fat-soluble A and water-soluble B. This has been shown by two 
lines of evidence: First, chemical evidence on the basis of solubility 
which is fairly convincing that we are dealing in water-soluble B with 
but a single physiologically indispensable substance. The probability 
is very small that there should be several substances, all of which 
are about equally soluble in certain solvents, and equally insoluble in 
another series. We have recently discussed this point at length. 

Second, We feel convinced that scurvy and pellagra are hot diseases 
due to lack of "vitamines" in the diet. They follow the long continued 
use of faulty diets, but the cause is of an entirely different nature from 
that responsible for beri-beri or the xerophthalmia of dietary origin. 
These two latter pathological states are in reaUty each the result of the 
absence or lack of a sufficient amount of a specific chemical substance 
which the normal diet should supply. Beri-beri does not occur in the 
United States. This shows that with respect to this dietary factor 
there is no problem in this country, even in those sections where diets are 
of the poorest quality. Xerophthalmia of dietary origin is ver>' rare, 
a fact which would lead to the conclusion that there is no "vitamine" 
problem in human nutrition in this country. We have, however 
abundant experimental data which demonstrate that diets derived ex- 
clusively from cereal grains furnish less of this substance than is needed 
to induce the best results in the nutrition of animals. There can be no 
doubt that in certain districts in the United States at the present time, 
diets are relatively common which would be enhanced by the inclusion 
of foods (milk, eggs, and leaves) which would increase the content of 
fat-soluble A in the diet. These foods would, of course, likewise serve to 
improve the diet in other respects. 

From what has been said it wiU be evident that the popular behef in 
the need of care to take special foods "rich in vitamines" of numerous 
kinds has crowded out of consideration the real and pressing problem of 
practical nutrition. There is no danger that we shall suffer from lack of 
the anti-beri-beri substance, water-soluble B, unless we shall limit our 
food supply ahnost entirely to articles derived from the endosperm of 
seeds, products such as bolted flour, degerminated com meal, polished 
rice, starch, sugars, and vegetable fats. If the diet should be so re- 



204 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [May 

stricted we should be in jeopardy fully as much because of the poor 
quality of the proteins of the food, and its poor inorganic content, and 
the lack of the dietary essential fat-soluble A, as from the factor first 
mentioned. There is some danger that with diets restricted to seeds, 
meats, and tubers, we shall obtain less of the fat-soluble A than is nec- 
essary for the promotion of the optimum physiological well-being. The 
"vitamine" problem is, however, much simpler than has been generally 
beHeved. 

It is highly desirable that we should discuss the chemically unidenti- 
fied constituents of the diet in terms no more extravagant than are em- 
ployed for the other indispensable constituents of the normal diet. We 
should cease to use such expressions as "substances vitally necessary for 
health and growth;" "growth promoting substances," when we employ 
no such terms with regard to dietary factors such as calcium or other 
mineral element. The latter forms a problem of some gravity in the 
selection of foods, and is indeed fully as important as is the problem of 
securing sufficient "vitamines." 

The results of experimental feeding reveal the natural foods in a new 
light and warrant their classification on the basis of function rather 
than of chemical composition. This is well illustrated by the pro- 
nounced differences in the dietary properties of the leaf of the plant as 
contrasted with the seed. The reason for this is foimd in the difference 
in the function of these parts of the plant. 

The seed consists of a tiny germ composed mainly of cells and a large 
endosperm which is principally a package of reserve food materials, and 
is comparable to a mixture of purified proteins, starch, sugars, fats, and 
inorganic salts. There are, of course, some cells in the endosperm 
through whose functioning the reserve food materials are deposited so 
as to form the peculiar structures seen in the seeds, but in a general way 
the seed as a whole is relatively much reserve food, and relatively Uttle 
cellular material. 

The leaf, on the other hand, is the laboratory of the plant in which are 
built up proteins, carbohydrates, and fats. While there are some leaves 
which serve as storage organs, and are gorged with reserve food-stuffs, 
the typical leaf is on both its surfaces a mosaic of actively functioning 
cells and the dry leaf is much more rich in cellular materials than is the 
dry seed. The two unidentified food essentials, fat-soluble A and water- 
soluble B, appear to be associated with the cell and not with the reserve 



1918] ^^•HAT to teach regarding food values 205 

food-stuffs, and are accordingly more abundant in certain types of 
leaves than in seeds. 

The germ or cellular portion of the seed is richer in mineral elements, 
and in the dietary factors A and B, than is the endosperm, especially 
that part which appears in bolted flour, degerminated com meal, and 
polished rice. Furthermore, the proteins derived from the germ are 
symmetrically constituted in that they yield all the amino-acids of "com- 
plete" proteins and none in excessively great or small amounts. The 
dietary properties of the germ are, therefore, very different from the 
endosperm and resemble those of the leaf. 

The tubers such as the potato and sweet potato, and the root crops, 
such as beets, turnips, radishes, are storage organs and, so far as they 
have been studied, tend to have dietary properties similar to the seeds 
rather than to the leaves of the plant. 

It should be emphasized, however, that there are some variations in 
the dietary properties of different seeds. These depend upon the rela- 
tive amoimt of the germ and the cellular elements just beneath the bran 
layer and in the endosperm on the one hand ,and the amount of reserve 
food on the other. Doubtless very appreciable differences will be 
observed between the dietary properties of roots and tubers depending 
upon whether or not the skins, which are rich in cellular material, are 
eaten. Variation is likewise seen in the special value of leaves. In 
fleshy leaves like the cabbage, the leaf is specialized in some degree to 
act as a storage organ for starch, sugars, etc. Other leaves contain a 
delicate skeletal framework with little reserve food substances. In this 
class are the thin leaves which dry quickly when the plant is cut. 

A similar contrast is seen between the dietary properties of the muscle 
tissue (steak, ham, chops) of an animal as compared with the glandular 
organs (hver, kidney, sweetbreads). The former are highly specialized 
contractile tissue, and are comparable with the seeds, especially in 
respect to the character and amount of the mineral elements, the con- 
tent of fat-soluble A and water-soluble B. The latter are organs rich 
in cells and accordingly faU into the same general class as the leaves in 
their quality as food-stuffs. The character of the inorganic content of 
the glandular organs is not so satisfactory for making good the deficiencies 
of seeds as is the inorganic content of leaves. 

WMe the classification on the biological basis caimot with safety be 
pushed to an extreme, the dietary properties of the food-sttiffs can be pre- 
dicted in a general way from the function of the product used as food. While 



206 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [May 

products having the same function may properly be compared with each 
other on the basis of chemical composition, tissues of either animal or 
plant origin which are rich in cellular structures cannot with safety be 
compared from the dietary standpoint with storage tissues. This classi- 
fication of the food-stuffs on the basis of function, with emphasis on the 
fact that most of the food-stuffs have deficiencies which are corrected 
by milk and the leafy vegetables, should form the main thesis of the 
teacher of nutrition and dietetics. As the other subject matter of the 
course is presented these facts should again and again be reiterated. 

From what has been said it will be appreciated that while variety 
tends to make in some degree for safety, the idea that a varied diet will 
necessarily promote health has in the past been accepted with too much 
confidence. The diet will be inadequate even if it is made up of a half 
dozen kinds of seeds such as the cereal grains together with the legume 
seeds and potatoes or other tuber or root foods, even when these are 
supplemented with moderate amounts of meats, and small amounts of 
the leafy vegetables. I do not mean to say that such a diet as that last 
described wUl lead to complete failure within a short time. Human 
experience teaches the contrary. What I wish to emphasize is that 
such a diet will not permit the most satisfactory development, nor will 
it promote health, resistance to diseases, or efficiency and longevity in 
the same degree as a diet containing Uberal amounts of milk and leafy 
vegetables. 

Two facts stand out with great prominence, viz., the paramount im- 
portance of milk as a regular constituent of the diet, and the great value 
of the leafy vegetables. If everyone in the United States could be 
taught that these two classes of foods are protective in character, in that 
they correct the faults in any other foods which we are likely to consume, 
and that it is a duty to include a fairly Hberal amount of each of these 
in the diet each day, the benefit which would come from such a knowledge 
would be greater even than that derived from the knowledge we now 
possess concerning inmiimization against diseases. Everyone should be 
taught that it is a mistake to buy any meat until each member of the 
family has a pint of milk each day. 



1918] AMERICANISM THE SPIRIT OF COSTUME DESIGN 207 

AMERICANISM THE SPIRIT OF COSTUME DESIGN^ 

ETHELWYN MILLER 
Professor oj Household Art, Iowa Slate College, Ames, Iowa 

Americanism is the keynote of the fashions of 1918. Up to the present 
time the designers of women's wear (by women's wear we mean hats, 
gloves, Hngerie, shoes, and dresses — in fact, all of women's wearing ap- 
parel), have had for their source of inspiration the products of the 
Parisian designers' creative ability. Our designers have gone to Paris 
to gtt their ideas for the general form and fi r the accessories of costume. 
Not only have they gone to France for the style, as we call it, but 
they have gone for the design of the fabric itself. Our ribbons and 
silks, our velvets and woolen materials, all have been designed by 
the Parisian schools; and we in America have imported for our most 
exclusive, highest priced models, the Parisian designs. 

Two years ago, with the beginning of the war, there sprang into exist- 
ence in this country the first design contest for women's wear. That 
fact is a significant one because never had there been held in America 
a design contest for women's wear. This contest was held at the Art 
Alliance of America, in New York City, through the inspiration of M. 
C. A. Crawford, a Research Assistant in Textiles at the Natural History 
Museum, and was promoted by the newspaper called Woman's Wear. 
This newspaper, published in New York City, gives a daily report of 
industrial conditions underlying the making of textiles, shoes, and all 
sorts of woman's apparel. 

This contest was open to professional artists, amateurs, and school 
children; and it is interesting to note that at the second contest, which 
was held this fall, there were 283 contestants ranging from eighty years 
of age to children of the fifth grade from the Paterson, New Jersey, 
schools. It is also interesting to note that two of the children from the 
public schools had their designs purchased by Marshall Field & Com- 
pany to be used in manufacturing ribbons. 

Along with this contest which was held at the Art Alliance was a 
second t>'pe of contest, called the Albert Blum Contest for Hand-Dec- 
orated Fabrics. This was the first time in America that a design con- 
test had ever been held by a manufacturer. The principal types of 

' Presented at the Tenth Annual Meeting of the .Vmerican Home Economics .Associa- 
tion, Atlantic City, March, 1918. 



208 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [May- 

hand decoration for fabrics are the wax resist process called batik, the 
tie and dye process, block printing, embroidering, stenciling, and weav- 
ing. The batik and the block printing processes are being widely used, 
as may be seen by watching the fashion magazines and the newspapers. 

These two types of contest, one promoted by a newspaper and the 
other by a manufacturer, both put emphasis upon design created in 
America, and inspired by the study of primitive American designs. 
"American" includes Mexican, Central American, and South American. 

Many designs which are being printed on the cloth for women's gar- 
ments are taken from Mexican baskets and Mexican pottery. The 
Museum of Natural History in New York City has sent one of its mem- 
bers to Central America to study the primitive designs of that country. 
In this fact we note a change in custom ; instead of going to Paris to study 
design, our designers are beginning to go to Central America, South 
America, or Mexico, and they study in the Museum of Natural History 
the Indian baskets, Indian pottery, and Indian printing designs. The 
source of inspiration of design is primitive American art. 

A third type of design contest is represented by the Wanamaker's 
Store Art Exhibit. The present contest is the sixth yearly one for their 
New York store. It is the twelfth contest for the Philadelphia store. 
It is open to school children between four and fifteen years of age in the 
pubhc and private schools. Three thousand two hundred awards have 
been made in the last contest for originals, copies, and posters. The 
prizes are of various types. One of the prizes which seemed very much 
worth while was the loan of an exhibit of paintings from the Wanamaker 
Galleries to the school which received the most prizes in its exhibit. 
These paintings were hung in the school where the children might see 
them; and it is said that it awakened a great deal of interest in good 
paintings in the neighborhood where the school was located. 

Wanamakersin the first years of their contests hung the prize winning 
pieces in the art galleries in their store, and the crowd of admiring friends 
and relatives was so great that they had to discontinue the practice. 
However, the fact that a big store like Wanamaker's thought it worth 
while to give prizes for pubhc school art stimulated the public in gen- 
eral to recognize the value of the art of the public schools. It is a very 
significant fact that the stores are cooperating with the pubhc schools in 
estabUshing standards for judging the worth of a commercial product 
in terms of its beauty. This same interest in developing the taste of 
the pubhc is manifest by many department stores in both large and 



1918] .AJJERICANISM THE SPIRIT OF COSTIJAIE DESIGN 209 

small cities. For example, the L. S. Ayres Department Store of Indian- 
apolis, designates certain weeks in the fall and spring as Home Furnish- 
ing Weeks, during which time, space is given for displaying the posters 
and drawings made by the children of the public schools in their lessons 
on house planning and decorating. The store not only brings the public 
school products to the notice of the general pubUc but it gives of its 
knowledge to the children. For instance, one is not surprised to see a 
man, in oriental costume, lecturing on oriental rugs to a group of boys 
and girls of seventh and eighth grade age and illustrating his lecture by 
means of the rugs displayed in that department. The department 
stores are in this way helping very greatly in the development of the 
appreciation of art principles, which is absolutely necessary to the buy- 
ing of good furniture, good rugs, good wall paper, and good pictures. 

Wha.t are the museums and galleries of America doing for this develop- 
ment of American design? We find that the American Museum of 
Natural History in New York City has been having a series of lectures 
given by industrial experts to artists concerning the practical phases of 
art work. Artists naturally go to the Metropolitan Museum of Art 
but at the present time they are going to the Museum of Natural His- 
tory to hear practical people talk about the practical phases of art work. 
As a result these artists are going to look at their designs in a more prac- 
tical way, and realize fully the influence of material and processes of 
construction upon design. 

Among the many who are lecturing to the artists may be mentioned 
two, James Chittick and Frederick C. Folsom. Mr. Chittick lectures 
on woolens, worsteds, silks, ribbons, and velvets. He is a textile expert, 
and is able to tell the designer whether his designs can be carried out by 
the machine and whether the colors can be obtained. Frederick C. Fol- 
som of the F. A. Foster Company is lecturing on cretonne designing. 
When such men as these take their time to lecture to designers, they are 
making a contribution to the educational side of American industry 
which can not be measured. In this way, a body of artists will be 
trained in America who wiU produce beautiful workable designs. 

In the Metropolitan Museum of Art we find artists telling the experts 
in industry the effective use of form, hne, and color. Grace Cornell, of 
Columbia University, Prof. A. W. Dow's assistant in design, gave one 
of these series of Sunday afternoon lectures to industrial workers. Prof. 
Chas. E. Pellew, also of Columbia University, lectured here to designers, 
salespeople, and buyers, upon Dyestuffs of the Ancients. Actual dyeing 



210 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [May 

experiments have been conducted and specimens of dyestuffs and textiles 
both native and foreign have been shown. Ruth Wilmott of the same 
University lectured on costume design, and the effect of the various 
colors, lines, and values upon the proportions of the human figure. 

At the Metropohtan Museum, in adchtion to these lecture courses, 
there was opened on December 3, 1917, a new textUe gallery. The cera- 
mic gaUery, water color gallery, and sculpture gallery, are traditional 
parts of an art museum. The textile gallery now takes its place as a 
vital part of national art, at a time when the people are devoting so 
much attention to the manufacturing of materials. In that gallery are 
to be displayed embroidery, hand decorated fabrics, and eighteenth cen- 
tury garments. In January the Museum of Natural History exhibited 
blouses from many countries^ among them England, Paris, and Italy. 

The Art Alhance has held an exhibit of master craftsmen. When we 
speak of the work of the master craftsmen we think of furniture, cop- 
per and jewelry, wood work and metal work. In this exhibit, under 
the term master craftsmen's exhibit there were to be seen textiles, — 
batik, tie and dyed, and block printed. Among the prominent people 
who exhibited were Martha Ryther, Dorothea Warren O'Hara and the 
Tannahill Sisters. The exhibit also included jewelry, glassware, ceramic 
art, furniture by Katherine Hanson, and wood carving by Charles 
Prendergast. 

Similar in nature to this exhibit of master craftsmen there has been 
held, at the Carnegie Galleries in Pittsburgh, an exhibit of needle work by 
the Phoebe Brashear Club. This club includes 800 teachers of the 
Pittsburgh schools, who are not members of the club until they have 
been away to an art school for study. The money for this advanced 
study is loaned by the club. The most recent exhibit included Assyrian, 
Russian, Grecian, and Balkan needlework from the homes of Pitts- 
burgh. This work could be that made in the Old Country and now an 
heirloom in the family, or it might be made by people who have come to 
this country recently and possess the skill to make the pieces. The 
purpose was to get these people to realize that America is interested in 
their native art. This emphasis upon the textile and needlework of the 
foreign countries has not been confined to the art clubs, such as the 
Phoebe Brashear Club; it has also been given wide publicity this winter 
In Hero Land, the bazaar held at Grand Central Palace, New York 
City. Here were found, in the various booths, people in European peas- 
ant costumes exhibiting textiles and needlework from the peasantry of 



1918] AMERICANISM THE SPIRIT OF COSTUME DESIGN 211 

many countries: Ireland, Scotland, Wales, Belgium, Holland, France, 
Portugal, Sweden, Poland, Russia, Roumania, Persia, and Japan. 

In addition to the work being done by the museums and galleries, 
we find the commercial organizations of America holding conventions in 
which they are emphasizing the spirit of American design. 

The dressmakers of the United States meet in an organization, called 
the Fashion Art League. Here again we have the cooperation of art 
and industry. At the December meeting in Chicago, Mr. Geo. W. Eg- 
gers, who is the Director of the Chicago Art Institute, delivered one of 
the principal addresses, the subject of which was "How Style Changed 
in Italian Paintings." .Another speaker, Lucy Sillv, Director of Art in 
the Public Schools of Chicago, talked to these dressmakers of America 
on the art of the public school — its aim and how it ought to meet the 
demands of dressmakers, and to make better dressed men and women. 

The Dress and Skirt Designers' Association is another commercial 
organization which is emphasizing American designs. At a meeting of 
this Association there were forty-nine model skirts shown that were 
American designed, American manufactured, and American made. 
The material was made in this country, the skirts were made in this 
country, the designs were made in this country. Formerly these asso- 
ciations have always advertised Parisian models, now this is their ad- 
vertisement: "American designed, American manufactured, American 
made," and they are actually living up to their advertisements. 

The school men must be included in the list of people who are pro- 
moting this union of art and industry in America. Trade schools are 
contributing their fund of knowledge to the public schools and the pub- 
lic schools are contributing their teaching methods to the trades and in- 
dustry schools. In Philadelphia M-e find a union of trade and pubhc 
schools being planned to prepare for a possible exodus of foreign labor 
after the war. In all large department stores and in the various trades 
and industries, classes are organized for the purpose of educating the 
workers to render the most efficient service. 

There are many other factors contributing to this spirit of American- 
ism in design and industry but the above brief summary of the efforts 
being made by the designers and manufacturers to use American designs 
and American materials proves that the two most powerful agencies 
in our country are united in their efforts to develop in the minds of the 
consumers an appreciation of the real value, artistic and economic, of 
Arperican made clothing. 



212 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [May 

A QUICK METHOD OF CALCULATING FOOD VALUES^ 

CAROLINE L. HUNT 
OJice of Home Economics, United Stales Department of Agriculture 

The purpose of this paper is to suggest a quick method for estimating, 
rather than figuring exactly, the protein and fuel values of meals, days' 
rations, and other combinations of food materials. Our thoughts, to be 
sure, are just now on other matters than total protein and calories, for 
body-regulating substances — still very unsatisfactorily named — and 
amino acids are demanding a large part of our attention. An under- 
standing of these new elements in the diet, however, rests upon an 
understanding of the factors which have ahvays been taken into con- 
sideration and the very multiplication of interests makes it desirable to 
have a quick method of disposing of the old. 

The method outlined here, like all other short cuts, is more useful 
for some purposes than for others. In this case, however, the scheme is 
most reliable and therefore most useful where it is most needed, i.e. 
in calculating protein and calories in a long list of foods. To calculate 
the food value of a meal, even if it is served to one hundred people, is a 
comparatively simple matter for only a small number of food materials 
is involved. The calculation of the food value of a week's ration or 
twenty-one meals, even for one or two people, on the other hand, is a 
complicated matter for it usually contains many different foods. 

The plan is most accurate when followed in connection with a varied 
diet and least accurate in connection with a monotonous diet. Here 
again, however, the diet which it does not calculate very accurately is the 
one which is comparatively easy to figure out by the old method. 

Finally it is most convenient when the foods purchased are recorded 
as they come into the house in accordance with the classification here 
used. This involves some changes in the ordinary arrangement of the 
household account book. For. example, the grouping of. butter, cream, 
cheese, and milk as "dairy products" has more significance to the pro- 
ducer than to the consumer, for some are important sources of protein 
and others of fat, a fact which must be taken into consideration when 
foods are to be classified according to their nutritive value. 

According to the plan here outlined, foods are arranged at the time of 

'Presented at the Tenth -Annual Meeting of the American Home Economics Association, 
Atlantic Citj', March 2, 1918. 



1918] 



A QUICK METHOD OF CALCULATING FOOD VALUES 



213 



their purchase into the following groups and sub-groups, and protein and 
calories are determined by means of average values for each group. 

Group I. vegetables and fruits 



Sub-Group I-B. Dried fruits 
and vegetables 

Record the weights as pur- 
chased of all dried fruits (raisins, 
dates, figs, prunes, apples, apricots, 
etc.) and all dried vegetables except 
soybeans. 



Sub-Group I-A . Fresh and canned 
vegetables and fruits 

Record the weights as pur- 
chased of all fresh vegetables, 
including potatoes and other tu- 
bers, salad vegetables, greens, etc. ; 
all fresh fruits, including berries 
and melons; and all canned vege- 
tables and fruits except those to 
which much sugar has been added. 
The last mentioned are really 
sweets and should be classed in 
Group IV. 



Multiply the weight of the dried vegetables and fruits by 6 to get the 
approximate weight before drying, and add to the weight of the fresh 
fruits and vegetables. To determine fuel value multiply the total num- 
ber of pounds by 250. To determine protein divide the total number 
of pounds by 70. 

Group II. protein-rich foods 



Sub-Group I I-A. The less watery 

Record the weights as pur- 
chased of all meats (except salt 
pork and bacon), poultry', game, 
fish, canned sea foods, eggs, cheese 
of all kinds, including cottage 
cheese purchased as such, peanuts, 
peanut butter and dried soy beans. 



Sub-Group I I-B. The more 

watery 
Record the weights of milk, 
also skim milk, and buttermilk, if 
purchased as such, oysters, fresh or 
canned, and other sea foods unless 
canned. 



Divide weight of milk, etc., by 4 and add to the weight of meat, fish, 
etc., in II-A. To determine fuel value value multiply the total number 
of pounds by 900. To determine protein divide the total number o| 
pouods by 7. 



214 



THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS 



[May 



Group III. cereals, bread and other bakery goods 



Sub-Group I II- A. Dry cereals 

Record the weights of all flours, 
meals, dry breakfast foods, rice, 
hominy, samp, buckwheat, maca- 
roni, tapioca, pop-corn, crack- 
ers, etc. 



Sub-Group III-B. Bread and 
other bakery goods 

Record below the weights of all 
bread, rolls, pies, doughnuts, cake, 
cookies, except the candy-like kinds 
that are purchased as such and not 
made at home. Chestnuts as pur- 
chased belong in this group. 



Take three-fourths of the weight of the bakery goods which represents 
roughly the amount of cereal or similar substance they contain and add 
to the weight of the dry cereals, etc., in III-A. To determine protein 
divide total number of pounds by 9. To determine fuel value multiply 
total number of pounds by 1600. 



Group IV 
Sub-Group IV-A. Sugar 
Record the weights of all sugars; 



granulated, pulverized, 
brown, maple, etc. 



Sub-Group IV-B. Sirups, 

jellies, candies, etc. 

lump, Record the weights of sirups, 
molasses, honey, jam, jelly, pre- 
serves, candy, and candy-like 
cakes and cookies. 



Take three-fourths of the weight of sirups, etc. which represents 
roughly the amount of sugar they contain, and add to the weight of the 
sugars in IV-A. To determine fuel value multiply the total munber of 
pounds by 1800. There is practically no protein in any of these foods. 



Group V. fatty foods 

Sub-Group V-A . Butter and 
other fats 

Record the weights of butter, 
butter substitutes, lard, suet, oil, 
all cooking fats purchased as such, 
bacon, salt pork, shelled nuts, 
eicept peanuts and chestnuts. 



Sub-Group V-B. Cream, ice 
cream, etc. 

Record the weights of cream, 
ice cream, unsweetened chocolate 
in the cake, and such foods as nuts 
in shell, which have a high per- 
centage of fat, but not so high as 
the fodds in V-A. 



1918] 



A QUICK METHOD OF CALCULATING FOOD VALUES 



215 



Take one-fourth of the weight of the cream, etc. and add to the weight 
of the butter, etc. in V-A. To determine the protein divide the total 
number of pounds by 30. To determine the fuel value multiply the total 
number of pounds by 3400. 

One example will serve to show how the plan works. 

On page 117 of the first edition of Mrs. Richards' "Cost of Food"* 
there is a carefully calculated 99-day dietary study. The results show 
94 grams of protein and 2915 calories per day. The following plan shows 
how the food value of the sixty or seventy materials involved can be 
calculated by groups. 

Group I. vegetables and fruits 
Sub-Group I-A, Fresh and Canned 



KINDS 


WEIGHTS AS 
PiniCHASZD 




Pounds 


Ounces 


Beets 


3 
2 
8 
2 
4 

27 
5 

9 
2 
1 
3 

20 


8 




4 


Lettuce 





Onions 


8 


Peas, canned 





Potatoes 


3 


Tomatoes, canned ... 







9 


Apples 


2 


Bananas . . 





Cranberries 


8 







Oranges 









Total, fresh and canned 


88 


10 


Six times the weight of dry 
vegetables and fruits 


40 


8 


Total fruits and vegetables . 


129 


2 



Sub-Group I-B, Dried or 


dehydrated 


KINDS 


WEIGHTS AS 
PURCHASED 




Pounds 


Ounces 






2 




1 


12 




2.5 


Dates 


4.5 




8 




5 




11 


Beans, Lima 

Peas 


13 
4 






Total, dried 


6 


12 







8 = the approximate weight when fresh 



2 = 129.125 pounds 



Protein = 129.125 ■- 70 or 1.845 pounds. Fuel value = 129.125X250 or 32,281 calories. 



» The Cost of Food: A Study m Dietaries. Ellen H. Richards. New York, John Wiley 
& Sons. 



216 



THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS 



[May 



Group II. pkotein-mch foods 
Snb-Group 1 1 -A , The less watery Sub-Group II-B, The more waiery 



KINDS 


WEIGHTS 
AS PURCHASED 




Pounds 


Ounces 


Fowl 


14 
9 

7 
3 
4 
9 
2 

1 

8 
4 

1 
7 



2 






Beef, rib roll 






6 


Veal, loin 


10 
1 






Beef, dried 


2 


Haddock 




Cod, fresh 


4 


Cod, salt 


14 
11 




8 




5 






Total 


72 


15 






One-fourth weight of milk 


19 


4 


Total protein-rich foods. . . . 


92 


3 



^DS 


WEIGHTS 
AS PURCHASED 




Pound* 


Ounces 


Milk (77 pints) 


77 









92 lbs. 3 oz. = 92.1875 lbs. 

Protein = 92.1875 -i- 7 or 13.7 pounds. 

Fuel value = 92.187S X 900 or 82,968 calories 



Group ni. ceke.\ls axd theis products 
Sub-Group III-A , Dry cereals Sub-Group I II-B, Bread and other bakery goods 



KINDS 


WEIGHTS 
AS PUECHASED 




Pounds 


Ounces 


Oatmeal 











1 



27 
4 
3 



1 


9 


Pettijohn 


9 


Wheat germs 


9 




9 




9 




5 




9 







Rice 


8 




4 




10 




11 




12 


Crackers, Boston 

Saltines 


14 
15 


Total cereals 


44 


15 







Pounds Ounces 



44 lbs. 15 oz. = 44.3125 lbs. 

Protein = 44.312 -=- 9 or 4.924 pounds. 

Fuel value = 44.3I2X1600or 70,900 calories. 



19181 



A QUICK METHOD OF CALCULATING FOOD VALUES 



217 



Group IV. sweets 
Stib-Group IV-A, The less watery Sub-Group IV-B, The more watery 



KINDS 


WEIGHTS 
AS PUECa.\SED 




Pounds 


Oxmces 




15 


2 


9 


Sugar, powdered 


5 
10 






Total 


18 


8 






Three-fourths wt. molasses. . 


3 






21 


8 







KINDS 


waoHT 

AS PURCHASED 




Pounds 


Ounces 




4 









21 lbs. 8 oz. = 21.5 pounds. 

Fuel value = 21.5 X 1800 = 38,700 calories. 



GROtrP V. FATTY FOODS 

Sub-Croup V-A, The more fatty Sub-Group V-B, The less fatty 



K1.\-DS 


AS POReH.\SED 




Pounds 


Ounces 


Butter. . . 


12 
1 




1 




4 


Oil, olive 





Lard 


7 


Suet 


7 


Salt pork 


7 







Walnuts, shelled 


9 


Total 


16 


2 






One-fourth wt. less fatty foods 





9.5 


Total fatty foods 


16 11.5 







KIKDS 


WEIGHTS 
AS PDECHASED 




Pounds 


Ounces 




2 






Chocolate 


6 


Total 


2 


6 







16 lbs. 11.5 oz. = 16.719 lbs. 

Protein = 16.719 -=- 30 or .5573 pounds. 

Fuel value= 16.719X3400 or 56,845 calories. 



Summary 



Group I 

Group II 

Group III... 
Group IV... 

Group V 

For 99 days. 
For 1 day. . . 



PROTEIN 


PnEL VAIUE 


pounds 


calories 


1.845 


32,281 


13.170 


82,968 


4.924 


70,900 




38,700 


0.557 


56,845 


20.496 


281,694 


0.207 (94 gms.) 


2,844 



The protein is the same as when calculated item by item; the fuel 
differs only by 2.5 per cent. 



218 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [May 

In the Journal for March, 1918, there is a report of a very careful and 
valuable dietary study made at Vassar College. The food per person 
per day is 113 grams of protein and 3072 calories. The quick method 
would be no substitute for this careful study, but a comparison will show 
that it is sufficiently accurate for ordinary checking-up purposes. By 
the quick method the protein is estimated to be 106 grams per day and 
the calories 2995, the errors being 6 and 2.5 per cent respectively. 

In this case the difference between the two computations in protein 
comes largely in the cereal group. The rolls used at Vassar were made 
in the college bakery and, fortunately for those who ate them, contain 
13 per cent of protein, which is more than the average protein in wheat 
flour. It is probable that skim milk was used in their preparation. In 
the average household, the rolls, if they had been purchased, would prob- 
ably have contained far less protein. If they had been made at home, 
the skim milk used would have been figured into Group II and would 
have raised the total protein to about 108 grams. This may be a good 
place in which to say that the purpose in selecting the factors for the 
various groups is to bring the final result too low rather than too high, 
in order that no inadequate diet shall appear adequate. 

A 13-day dietary of my own gives almost the same results for calories 
when figured by groups and item by item, i.e., 2652 and 2659. The 
protein is 4 grams lower by groups. This is to be accounted for chiefly 
by the fact that during the two weeks of the study little butter was used 
and a comparatively large amount of bacon. The factor for determining 
protein in Group V is based on the usual proportions between these two 
foods, and therefore gives too low a result for protein when used on a 
combination of foods in which butter is displaced to a considerable extent 
by a fat containing more protein as in army rations, for example. This 
suggests that a person who understands food values can easily make slight 
adjustments in the figures to suit exceptional cases or cases in which the 
number of items in a group is so small that their average is not repre- 
sentative of the members of that group in common use. 

No apology is needed, however, even for a discrepancy of 8 or 10 per 
cent. The fact is that after a person has computed a dietary item by 
item there always lingers over him a doubt as to its accuracy, He knows 
that a large error may have been introduced through the selection of the 
wrong percentage compositions. In the quick method the error is prob- 
ably little greater and the time required for computation is far less. The 
tune needed will be less still when we have a new account book with the 
foods arranged in groups according to the plan here outlined. 



FOR THE HOMEMAKER 

MODIFYING YOUR COOK BOOK TO MEET PRESENT 
CONDITIONS 

ALICE BR,\DLEY 
Miss Farmer's School of Cookery, Boston 

Every good housekeeper has a favorite cook book and familiar rec- 
ipes that she is loath to give up, even though anxious do to her part 
in conserving food stuffs. Now, although war conditions are causing 
hundreds of new recipes to be circulated, we turn the famihar pages 
and find it possible to continue to use our standard cook book and still 
save wheat, meat, sugar, and fat for our soldiers and the allies. This 
is done by our selection of dishes, by changing the formulas to include 
"substitutes," or by eliminating part or all of the fat or sugar. 

Let us see how we may make our wartime changes. 

Those people who are giving up wheat entirely will pass by the yeast 
breads as no really satisfactory results come from making raised breads 
entirely of wheat substitutes. Excellent Boston or New England 
Brown Bread can be made using ground rolled oats for Graham flour 
and barley flour for rye meal. 

Biscuits, muflSns, griddle cakes, and waffles can be made very well 
without wheat. Barley flour alone or combined with 1 part corn- 
starch or rice flour to 3 parts barley flour can be used for biscuits, 
mufl&ns, or popovers. Rolled oats, put twice through the food chopper, 
may be used instead of white flour, allowing 1| cups for each cup of 
flour called for.' In corn cakes and muffins barley flour may replace 
the white flour that is used with the corn meal. Mufiin mixtures may 
be baked in bread pans and sliced when cold. Buckwheat can replace 
flour in griddle cakes and waffles if more liquid is added. 

Recipes for mush made of rolled oats, oatmeal, corn meal, hominy, 
and rice may all be utilized. Such cereals may be eaten more fre- 
quently and in larger quantities than formerly. 

' This differs from the amount given in the April Jouknal as determined in the 
Experimental Laboratory of the Food Administration and the Dept. of Agr. Other samples 
of rolled oats purchased a few weeks later gave results that agree with the author's. 

219 



220 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [May 

Turkish and Russian Pilaf make excellent luncheon or supper dishes. 
Samp may be used in recipes calling for macaroni. Noodles made of 
corn flour and no wheat at all are delicious as macaroni substitutes. 

Corn flour gives good results as thickening in white sauce or cream 
soups; barley, buckwheat, or oatflour may be used in browTi or tomato 
soups or gravies. Cornstarch may also be used, one-third less being 
required than the amount of flour called for in the recipe. 

As a substitute for bread and mufiins both white and sweet potatoes 
may be used. Many recipes for preparing them will be found in the 
cook book. Make the potato popular by serving it in a variety of ways 
and two or three times a day. 

In steamed and baked puddings requiring flour, barley flour is proba- 
bly the cheapest and most satisfactory substitute although buckwheat 
or ground rolled oats may be used instead. 

One cannot patriotically have pastry as hght and rich as formerly, 
but tempting, digestible crust for pies can be made with barley flour 
instead of white flour, or with ground rolled oats and very little 
shortening. 

In ginger breads, cookies, and cakes many formulas are possible 
when making them without wheat. 

In sponge cakes h cup potato flour may replace 1 cup white flour 
with excellent results. 

One hundred per cent rice, corn, or potato flour is good in cookies 
and gingerbreads. Use enough to make them stiff enough to roll out. 

Mashed potato may be used as a substitute in biscuits, mufiins, and 
cakes. One cupful v.i\l replace about 5 cup of flour and | cup of liquid 
which must be omitted from the recipe. 

Corn meal, finely ground, may replace all or part of the flour in 
gingerbreads and molasses cookies if desired. 

More meat substitute dishes are found in even the old cook books 
than people reahze until they stop to think what a variety of foods 
come under that head. There are whole chapters on eggs, fish, chowders, 
and cream soups without stock, there are bean and pea dishes, while 
many of the dishes formerly served as entrees are sufiicient for the 
main part of a meal. Here also are recipes showing how leftovers may 
be satisfactorily utilized. 

If you limit your consumption of fat to f of a pound per week, or even 
1 pound per person you will have to make many changes in your favor- 
ite recipes but ^vill not need to discard them altogether. In many 



1918] MODIP\lNG YOUR COOK BOOK 221 

recipes calling for 2 tablespoons of butter 1 tablespoon or an equal 
amount of oleomargarine, cooking oil, or dripping maybe used instead, 
to save fat. 

Rich sauces and cakes will have to be given up entirely until after 
the war instead of being changed, unless the amount of fat needed can 
be saved from the weekly allowance. Deep fat fr>ing recipes should 
not be followed as written. Croquettes may be coated with crumbs 
mixed with 1 or 2 tablespoons of melted fat, and baked in the oven, 
as that requires very much less fat than is necessary for deep frying. 

To save sugar, the amount called for can be reduced without harm 
in almost all recipes. In hght colored muffins substitute hght colored 
corn syrup; in dark muffins use molasses; on fried mush, waffles, and 
griddle cakes use maple s>Tup (pure or imitation), honey, hot molasses, 
or marmalade. 

In desserts, pudding sauces, pie fillings, cakes and cookies, use half 
the amount of sugar called for with an equal amount of corn s>Tup. 
Use sugar in cooking only when it can be saved from the allowance of 
3 pounds or less per person per month. Many cakes and desserts 
made with molasses will be found in your cook book. Try a maple 
sugar frosting when you do make cake or use honey instead of sugar 
for a boiled frosting. 

The cook books should be used to suggest greater variety in the 
ways of serving vegetables. During the summer, dinners with several 
vegetables and no meat or fish may be frequently provided. The pro- 
tein will be suppKed by beans or peas or by milk made into white sauce 
to go with the vegetable. Use the water in which vegetables are cooked 
for soups and gra\-ies to conserve mineral salts. 

The salad chapters also require only slight changes. Peanut, cotton 
seed, or corn oil may take the place of olive oil in the salad dressings, 
but even to these we should help ourselves sparingly at table that pre- 
cious oil may not be wasted on the plates. Many salads make excel- 
lent substitutes for desserts and others can replace meats. Still others 
will satisfy the appetite and take the place of bread and butter. 

Excellent recipes for serving and preserving fruits will be found. 
These may take the place of wheat desserts. Home canned jellies, 
fruits, and vegetables may replace the imported ones called for in 
various recipes. 

Look through the reading matter of the cook book and learn how 
to fry out fat and how to use up leftovers of all kinds that waste may 
be prevented. 



222 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [May 

Following are changes that would be made in the recipes for a simple 
dinner menu. 

Cream Soup. Oleomargarine may take the place of butter and 1 
tablespoon used instead of 2, and 2 tablespoons corn flour in place of 
2 tablespoons wheat flour. Use vegetable stock instead of water when 
convenient. 

Baked stuffed fish. Use dry wheatless muffin crumbs in place of 
cracker crimibs in stuffing; use oleomargarine in place of butter; use 
fat left in baking pan, instead of butter, to make a sauce; save the head 
and bones of the fish for fish stock. 

Mashed potatoes. Follow recipe but cook potatoes in Jackets to 
conserve mineral salts. 

Green peas. Save water in which they are cooked and add it to a 
cream soup, stew, or gravy in place of plain water. 

Bread. In place of serving white bread use a "Quick Bread." 

Cheese and currant salad. Home made buttermilk or sour milk 
cheese may be used in place of cream cheese, and currant jelly in place 
of Bar-le-Duc currants. 

French dressing. Follow the rule as given, using if necessary a cheaper 
vegetable oil to replace part or all of the oHve oil. 

Cottage pudding. Use | cup sugar and | cup corn syrup in place of 
f cup of sugar; and 2j cups barley flour in place of 2j cups white flour; 
use other ingredients as called for. 

Chocolate sauce. Use ^ cup corn syrup and 2 tablespoons sugar in 
place of 1 cup sugar. 

The housekeepers who are accustomed to success because they have 
learned how to follow exactly the recipes in reliable cook books may 
make all these changes and yet obtain satisfactory results. 



Any food consumed over and above the needs of the human body is 
wasted. 



1918] COMPARISON BETW-EEN CANNING AND DRYING 223 

A COMPARISON BETWEEN CANNING AND DRYING 

EDITH ALLEN AND JENOISE SHORT 

The following experiment was made last summer to answer the ques- 
tion that many housekeepers are asking this spring : " Is it more profitable 
to can or dry?" The cost of canning equal weights of six common 
vegetables and five fruits was compared with the cost of drying them. 
A record was made of the time required for the preparation, the labor 
involved, the cost of gas consumed, the cost of containers and the 
weight and the volume of the finished products. 

A maxim well known to good housekeepers is that any oven is giving 
most efficient service when it is filled to capacity. For this reason the 
cost of drying the weights of material used in this experiment was based 
upon the amount of fuel consumed by an oven of average household 
size, containing three shelves each 16-inches square filled to capacity. 
The cost of heating a 12 quart pail, the size of container that best holds 
three 1-quart jars, and is most convenient for canning food in small 
quantities, was the basis for calculating the cost of canning. 

After drying, the food was soaked and cooked to see how nearly it ap- 
proached the volume of the canned product and to determine its flavor 
and appearance. A portion of the food prepared in this way was 
placed on the counters of a certain cafeteria without any indication that 
it was not an ordinary canned product. All patrons who selected and 
ate the cooked dried food were requested to give an unbiased opinion 
of what they had eaten. The majority of patrons failed to recognize any 
difference from their usual dish and all praised both flavor and appear- 
ance. 

It matters little how much we approve theoretically of drying unless 
a palatable product is the result, and people learn to eat the dried 
food; otherwise this method of conserving food cannot be said to be 
successful. 

Both vegetables and fruits, with the exception of berries and cherries, 
were subjected before drying to a preliminary cooking of from one to 
fifteen minutes in boiling water or live steam. The carrots were cut in 
slices of from 5 to J inch in thickness and steamed eight minutes. The 
corn was boiled, cold dipped, and cut from the cob. The spinach was 
steamed for five minutes. The apples were cut in i inch slices and 
steamed three minutes, and the peas were shelled and steamed fcrr five 
minutes. 



224 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [May 

The canning of vegetables and fruits was carried out according to the 
directions given in the United States Department of Agriculture 
Farmer's Bulletin 839, Home Caiming by the One Period Cold Pack- 
Method. 

A comparison of the finished products as foods proved very interest- 
ing. Apples, corn, carrots, huckleberries and raspberries make fully 
as good a product when dried as when canned, and may be more easily 
stored since they use less space. Dried cherries and dried tomatoes 
are an entirely different product from the canned, but they are very 
palatable and well worth drjang for special uses. The cherries are ex- 
cellent for puddings and the tomatoes may be used in escalloped dishes 
made from rice or macaroni, and for flavoring soups and stews. If young 
peas are dried they are preferable, when cooked, to the ordinary canned 
product. Peaches change in flavor and though very good are not equal 
to the canned product. 

It is possible to dry string beans or spinach so that they compare 
favorably with the canned product, but it takes a great deal of skill. 
In consequence there is apt to be considerable waste in drying them. 
The odor of cooking dried string beans or spinach is not particularly ap- 
petizing, though when well dried and cooked they have nearly the same 
flavor as the canned ones. 

There is little difference in the labor involved in drying and canning. 
The attention which the material requires during the process of drying 
is off-set by the labor of preparing the jars and packing the product to 
be canned. 

The containers for the dried product are very light, weighing from 1 to 
2 ounces each, while jars to contain the same amount of material would 
weigh from 1 to 1^ pounds. The paper containers have also the advantage 
over glass jars of being unbreakable and less expensive. The material 
when canned weighs five to ten times as much as when dried. The vol- 
ume varies even more than this. 

It is practical for the housewife to both can and dry, doing neither one 
to the exclusion of the other. Each process has certain advantages, as a 
rapid survey of the table will show. 

There is especial need for experience in handling the dried products 
and preparing appetizing dishes from them. While we are learning more 
about how to dry, more experimental work should be done on cooking 
the dried product. 



1918] COMPARISON BETWEEN CANNING AND DRYING 

Results of canning and drying cxperimeni 



225 









WEIGHT 










PRODCCT 




QDANTriY 


ATTEE 
PEEPARA- 


COST OF 
GAS 


NET 
WEIGHT 


UME 








TION 
















lbs. 


01. 




ftj. 


oe. 


pints 


Tomatoes i 


Dried 
Canned 


12 
12 


2 

2 


6 
6 


$0,019 

.004 


2 


2J 
61 


i 

2 


String beans < 


Dried 
Canned 


2 quarts 
2 quarts 


1 
1 


6 
6 


.017 
.0075 


2 


3 


1 

2 


Com < 


Dried 


IS ears 


2 


10 


.012 




8 


1 


Canned 


IS ears 


2 


10 


.0092 


2 


10 


2 


Peas, unshelled X 


Dried 
Canned 


.■? quarts 
3 quarts 


1 
1 


2 
2 


.017 
.01 


2 


3i 


2 


Carrots i 


Dried 
Canned 


11 
11 


2 
2 




.017 
.0075 


2 


4 
3 


2 


Spinach < 


Dried 


7 quarts 


5 




.014 




3 


2 


Canned 


7 quarts 


5 




.0101 


1 


8 


2 


Apples < 


Dried 

Canned 


IJ quarts 
IJ quarts 




3 
3 


.012 
.005 


1 


3i 
2 


1 

2 


Peaches < 


Dried 


1 ^ quarts 




12 


.016 




51 


3 


Canned 


1| quarts 




12 


.006 


2 




2 


Raspberries < 


Dried 
Canned 


1 quart 
1 quart 






.013 
.0022 


1 


2 
1 


5 
1 


Cherries < 


Dried 


i basket 


2 




.017 




7 


^ 


Canned 


h basket 


2 




.004 


2 




2 


Huckleberries < 


Dried 
Canned 


IJ quarts 
li quarts 


2 
2 




.016 
.022 


2 


5^ 


2 



Be a Food Controller in your own home and count yourself fortunate 
that you have food to control. 



226 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [May 

TIME REQUIRED FOR HOUSEWORK IN A FAMILY OF FIVE 
WITH SMALL CHILDREN 

MARION WOODBURY 

The author of this article writes: 

" The statement was made in a recent 'short course' that by systematizing 
her work any woman could he done by 10.30 every day. I take exception 
to this. In a family of adults or one tvith older children this might be pos- 
sible, but there are many families in which household and nursery duties 
must he performed by one person. The following scliedule is my attempt 
at a solution of this problem." — The Editor. 

The following schedule of daily and weekly routine work was made 
out by the mother of the family, who does most of the work. The 
family consists of father, mother, child of four years, and baby of nine 
months, with a college student who works for room and board. The 
house was built by the occupant and is compact and convenient; it 
contains a large living room, small play- room, a dining room, and a 
kitchen on the first floor, four moderate sized bedrooms and a bath on 
the second, with small staircase halls. 

As shown by the table, the routine work, cooking and care of children 
are performed by the housewife. The student dusts and washes dishes. 
He also sweeps the entire house once a week, while the washing and iron- 
ing are done in the house by a laundress. 

All operations have been carefully studied with a view to performing 
them as efficiently as possible. When small children are to be cared for, 
great efficiency is sometimes difficult; interruptions will occur and sud- 
den changes of plan are often necessary. In fact, the whole routine 
must be based upon their hours for eating and sleeping and must be 
changed when these change. In so far as the time required for any one 
operation is concerned, this schedule is accurate; the order in which 
these are performed varies considerably. 

No more time is given to the personal care of the children than is 
necessary to maintain the present-day standards of hygiene and train- 
ing. More time could well be used in directed play, elementary instruc- 
tion, and outings if it were available. 

It is impossible to estimate what proportion of the time occupied in 
weekly work is due to the presence of children in the house. One can 
simply say "a family of five" and be sure that the children are responsi- 



19181 



TIME REQUIRED FOR HOUSEWORK 



227 



ble for more, rather than less, than a proportionate share in the washing 
and sweeping. 

The afternoon program varies somewhat. Under present conditions 
marketing is best done in person. Through cooperation with a neigh- 
bor one trip to town suffices for the week. Cooperative cooking has 
also proved a time-saver — only such articles as pics, cakes, quick breads, 
gelatin salads, and desserts being attempted. 

Since the man of the house holds an official position in a University, 
many calls must be made and received and considerable simple enter- 
taining done. The afternoon given up to Red Cross work has in part 
supplanted these duties with the whole community. In normal times 
probably one afternoon a week would be spent in social activities. 

A good deal of sewing and some writing (accounts, recipes, etc), 
must be done in the evening. It has been found impossible to leave the 
evenings entirely free. 

A woman student is employed when it is necessary for the housewife 
to be out and also occasionally for plain sewing. Her time would average 
about ten hours weekly. 

Work done by housewife 



■OUR 


u 


BOTJSEHOLD DDIIES 


ii 


NURSERY DUTIES 


&i 


PERSONAl 


6.15 

to 

6.45 


IS 




10 


Feed baby and dry 


15 


Bathe and dress 


' 


Bathe and dress child 






6.45 


Prepare breakfast t 








7.00 




j: 




30 


Eat breakfast 


7.30 


30 


Clear table, put away 
food, look over 
larder, plan raeals, 
order from stores, 
get out supplies for 
day 










8.00 




30 


Wash diapers, fold dry 
ones, prepare batli 






8.30 


15 




30 


Bathe baby and give 
child oral number 
lesson 






9.00 

to 
9.30 


Make beds and tidy 
bed rooms 


15 


Feed baby, tidy bath- 
room, rinse night 
clothes, put baby to 
nap 







228 



THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS 



[May 



Work done by hoiiscunfe — Continued 



HOtlE 


g 1 HOnSEKOLD DCTIES 


2 z 




is 


PERSONAL 


9.30 


IS 


1 ^^1 II 




to 
10.00 


This 30 minutes is allowed to take care of phone 
calls and various interruptions, also personal care ^ 
of children during entire forenoon jl 




10.00 




30 


Prepare modified milk, 
orange juice, for 1 ' 
day, gruel or custard 
for 2 days and give 
child reading lesson I 
while working 




10.30 


45 


Prepare (1) luncheon 
dish; (2) soup, salad, 
or dessert; (3) mate- 
rials for quick 
bread; (4) meat (or 
substitute) and veg- 
etables and dessert 
for evening dinner 










11.15 






15 


Take baby from nap, 
dry, and feed orange 
juice 






11.30 
to 
12.00 


15 


I 
Prepare luncheon '' 15 


Prepare separate meal 
for child: meat or 
egg, vegetable, bread 
and butter, fruit or 
dessert 






12.00 






, 30 


Eat luncheon 


12.30 
to 
1.30 


30 


Clear table, stack dish- 30 
es for washing, put i, 
away food. Tidy f 
first floor, water i 
plants f 


Feed baby gruel and 
custard, warm milk 
and feed in bottle. 
Settle both children 
for naps. 






1.30 










1-0 


Rest or read ex- 
cept when go- 
ing out. 


2.30 

to 
3.00 




j, 15 


Dress children 


15 


Dress. 



1918] 



TIME REQUIRED FOR HOUSEWORK 



229 



Work done by houseunfe — Continued 



Ho<j« III i 


HOnsEOOLD DUTIES 


it 


NURSERY DUTIES 




PERSONAL 


3.00 


1-30 


Special tasks each day. 

Monday. Change bed, 
bathroom, table and 
kitchen linen and 
put up washing; do 
accounts and house- 
hold desk work 

Tuesday. Sew for 
children and house 

Wednesday. Red Cross 
work 1.00-5.00 

Thursday. Put away 
clean clothes and 
mend. French les- 
son while sewing 

Friday. Prepare rooms 
for cleaning, market 
for 2 famiUes 1.00- 
5.00 

Saturday. Bake 










4.30 






30 


Feed baby and put to 
bed 






S.OO 


30 


Prepare dinner 










5.30 










30 


Eat dinner 


6.00 


15 


Prepare cereal and 
fruit, set table for 
breakfast 


45 








6.15 






Read to child and put j 
to bed 




Total 


5-0 




5-0 


li^ 





Work done by other persons 



lU 


CLEANINC, DISB WASHING, ETC. 


HELPER 


i IS 


Dusting and tidying of play room and own dresser 
Dustmg of tables and setting of table for luncheon 


4 year old child 


30 


Dusting of floors and furniture 


Student help 




1-30 


Dish washing and tid>Tng kitchen 


Student help 


Total 


2-15 







230 



THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS 
Work done by other persons — Continued 



[May 





i i 


WEEKLY WORK 


HELPER 




5-0 
4-0 
3-0 


Washing 1 
Ironing > 
Miscellaneous cleaning] 


Laundress IJ days 
per week 




7-0 
2-0 


Weekly sweeping and cleaning of first and second 

floor rooms and cellar 
Floor polishing, etc. 


Student help 


ToUl 


1 
21-0 or 3 hours daily 




Summary 



Daily work Hours daily 

House 3-45 

Cooking 2-0 

Children 5- 

10-45 
Hours weekly 
Weekly work 

Washing 9- 

Cleaning 12-0 

Cooking 1-30 

Miscellaneous afternoon 

work 8-30 

Outside work 4-0 

35- 



Total hours 
dailv 



10-45 



SUBJECT TO CHANGE 

"Conservation of food must be adjusted to meet necessities from time 
to time, for neither production nor Allied demands are constant factors, 
nor can any of these factors be anticipated for long periods in advance in 
the disturbed conditions in which we at present live." — U. S. Food 
Administration. 



EDITORIAL 

The Children's Year. It was once said of a meeting of the American 
Home Economics Association that during the whole session no mention 
was made of the home, of the child, or of the community. That must 
have been long ago, for today no home economics worker could, if she 
would, be so oblivious to the needs of the world as even temporarily to 
put away from her thoughts or her speech the home for which she is 
working, or the community it serves, or the child whose up-bringing is 
its main purpose. Today especial interest centers upon the child, both 
because of the inevitable necessity of caring for child welfare in wartime, 
a necessity made evident by the great attention given to legislation for 
children and other work in their interest by the warring nations, and 
because our own Children's Bureau has depicted so plainly the needs of 
children, and shown so clearly methods that may be used toward pro- 
tecting and safeguarding them, that the whole country is convicted of its 
past failures and aroused to undertake with its best effort the needed work. 

Children's Year has entered upon its second month, with about 
half the states organized and having some form of work under way. 
The District of Columbia may be taken as a fair example of the way in 
which the work of Children's Year is being carried out. It has been 
organized under an executive committee composed of the executive 
chairman, the officers, the chairmen of five general committees, and two 
members at large. These sub-committees have charge of practically 
all fields of work, for children of all ages. The work is grouped under 
protection of infants, mothers, and young children; home care of older 
children; child labor and education; recreation; and children in need 
of special care. 

The first committee is now conducting the weighing and measuring 
test throughout the city and its suburbs, and it is hoped that the spirit 
and interest thus aroused will give the needed impetus to the work which 
should follow logically upon it, namely, the further examination of 
those children whose weight and height are below the average, and the 
attempt to put as many of these children as possible into better condi- 
tion. More than 9,000 children have been registered and it is expected 
that the number will be increased to more than 10,000 before the test is 
finished, thus extending the test to about one quarter of the children 
of the given ages in the city. In addition to this, the committee has 
arranged for the examination by physicians and nurses of all children 
whom the test shows to be below the average. 

231 



232 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [May 

The creation of a Division of Child Welfare in the Department of 
Health of Washington is aiilong the great objects to be accomplished. 
Congress has been asked to give $15,000 for this purpose, and it will be 
one of the functions of the Children's Year Committee to push this bill 
in Congress. In case the bill passes, Dr. William C. Woodward, Health 
Officer of the District, will probably take over the administrative offices 
of the Children's Year, thus relieving the committee of the necessity 
of raising money to pay the overhead charges. The work of the Com- 
mittee will then be directed to the creation of public sentiment and the 
educating of public opinion to take advantage of the opportunities offered 
to the community, through the Children's Year campaign, for making the 
Capital city the model city with respect to public protection of child life. 



The next annual meeting of the American Home Economics Association 
will be held in Chicago, June 27 to June 29, at the University of Chicago. 



THE QUESTION BOX 

Barley flours. In reply to a question about barley flours, Miss Daniels 
writes : 

Barley flours differ among themselves. A recipe which is successful 
with one flour is not in all cases successful with others. 

The early barley flour put on the market seemed to take a smaller 
proportion of liquid than wheat. This, however, we have not found to 
be true of the flours which we have been using during the last four or 
five months. Because of the increased shortage of wheat, millers have 
used a larger proportion of the grain for the barley flour. One company 
in Wisconsin began by milling 56 per cent of the pedigreed grain which 
contained about 14 per cent of protein. They are now using barley 
containing a smaller proportion of protein and are milling a much higher 
percentage of the grain. 

We have been busy checking our early work with our later work and 
our new pamphlet' will contain the proportions which hold for the prod- 
ucts of three large mills.^ On these, we have done more work than on 

' Twelve Ways to Use Barley — Revised edition. 

* Dodge-Hooker, Washburn-Crosby, Quaker Oat Company. 



1918] THE QUBSTION BOX 233 

the other flours. These we have found can be used in the same propor- 
tions as wheat flour in all cases except yeast breads. The fifty-fifty 
proportion makes an acceptable bread. When using the barley for 
yeast bread, we get more satisfactory results when we add a small 
amount of cooking soda to the barley flour. One teaspoonful with sLx 
cups of barley flour is a fair proportion. The barley flour as milled now 
contains considerable acid. This together with the acid produced by 
the yeast produces a loaf which is not unpalatable, but rather unusual, 
the acid flavor being more pronounced as the bread stands. This slight 
acid taste is not at all evident in mixtures made of baking powder or 
sour milk and cooking soda. Barley flour may be used in white sauces 
in the same proportion as white flour, the thickening qualities of the 
two flours being very similar. 

Barley baking powder biscuits are satisfactory. One must roll them 
shghtly thicker than when wheat flour is used and the mixture is some- 
what softer. We use for these the same proportions of flour and liquid 
(by measure), as if white flour were used, but since there is no gluten 
formed in barley, the consistency is softer. Not knowing this, the 
housekeeper sometimes gets her biscuits too stiff. 

If something could be done to standardize barley flour, it would help 
the housekeepers materially, as well as the bakers. Housekeepers are 
accustomed to a certain kind of wheat flour and they must acquire the 
same feel for barley mixtures. Having once learned how to handle a 
floiu", they have better success if they always use that same flour. If 
the various barley products on the market were standardized, we could 
pay less attention to the brand. 



A request has come for shdes to be used as illustrative material in 
cormection with the course in textiles, and also for pictures and slides 
illustrating equipment for household economics rooms. 

Can anyone give information as to where such slides can be obtained? 



An inquiry has come as to which method is found best by high school 
teachers — alternate days, semesters, or years, for sewing and cooking. 
Will any who have had experience with these different arrangements of 
work, and who believe that there is something more involved than an 
adjustment to convenience of program, send us their views as to the 
advantages and disadvantages of one as compared with the others? 



234 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [May 

COMMENT AND DISCUSSION 

A COOPERATIVE VENTURE 

"One that consistently reports its set backs as well as its successes." 

I like to send you a word about our cooperative ventures semi-occa- 
sionally. Our store has unfortunately been compelled to suspend its 
cooperative existence. We were doing better than ever before and our 
business had gotten up to $120,000 a year, but in our earlier history poor 
management had impaired our capital and when it came to doing a 
much larger bulk of business it naturally demanded larger capital and 
the higher prices of everything made the stock on the shelves require a 
much larger investment. But the store, while it was right on the eve of 
success we all thought, had not yet thoroughly demonstrated this and 
the times were not propitious for raising $5,000 or $10,000 of new capital 
as we should have been obUged to do, and so Mr. Harris, who was our 
largest creditor, simply took over the business. It is going weO, though 
it is no longer cooperative. It is administered in a broad, public-spirited 
way. Mr. Harris has just written a book on cooperation, "Coopera- 
tion the Hope of the Consumer," which has been published by Macmillan. 
We have at least a hundred thick and tliin cooperators here and we are 
just biding our time for the present, hoping the chance will come soon 
to make some new start. 

Our Cooperative Kitchen has for the second time moved into larger 
quarters, twice as large as the last, and has now one of the old boarding 
houses of the town, with thirty-live rooms, the largest place in town with 
the exception of the Montclair Hotel. Each move has meant the incur- 
ring of indebtedness for additional equipment and the slow cutting down 
of that indebtedness, then another expansion; but we seem able to run 
a boarding house with fair success, on an ever larger scale. Our 
assets are well over our liabilities, there does not seem any likelihood 
of larger quarters for years now, the demand for board is steady, and 
once all difficulties are solved in this line — they are almost solved now — 
we shall be free to develop our outside service as we have meant to do 
but have been delayed in doing by having to lay these other foundations. 

Edgar S. Wiers, 
Montclair, N. J. 



BOOKS AND LITERATURE 

Any book or periodical mentioned in this department may be obtained through the 
Journal of Home Economics if the Journal price is listed. 



The Household Budget. By John B. Leeds, 

234 W. School Lane, Philadelphia Pa., 

1917, pp. 246. S1.50. By mail of the 

Journal, SI. 58. 

The increasing number of books from 
specialists who have appUed their knowledge 
to the solution of household problems shows 
a marked change in the evaluation of the 
work of the home. From no one is this new 
attitude more helpful than from the teacher 
of economics — the subject whose principles 
have been so frequently ignored in any dis- 
cussion of household management. 

Professor Leeds' convincing presentation 
of the economic value of the labor of the 
housewife, with his suggestion that purchas- 
ing commodities is an act of production 
rather than of consumption, is especially 
valuable today. 

The book includes the report of a first 
hand investigation of the amount of time 
spent in house work; with an analysis of 
the results. A new arrangement of budget 
headings is useful and suggestive. 

The analysis of the budgets of two groups 
of families whose incomes are respectively 
$1800 and $2000 a year is a distinct con- 
tribution to the literature of budget making, 
as the studies in the past have been largely 
confined to families with a bare living wage. 

His conclusions are that although econo- 
mists in general recognize household activi- 
ties as productive, yet none of them give 
it the consideration that they give to the 
productive labor of men or to the labor of 
women in factories or business offices. He 
proves that if we are interested in the sum 
total of household and national income we 
must include the work of both men and 
women workers wherever it is done. 

Gertrude Van Hoesen, 

University of Chicago. 

Ftod Problems. By A. N. Farmer and 
Jamet Rankin Huntington. Boston: 



Ginn and Company, 1918, pp. 90. $0.27. 

$0.20 to boards, teachers, and schools. 

This attractively arranged and carefully 
planned little volume in eighty odd pages 
offers some of the most constructive sug- 
gestions for educational work in connection 
with the campaign for food conser\-ation 
that have yet been forthcoming. 

It presents in eight chapters a series of 
food problems for the sixth, seventh, and 
eighth grades that are designed "not to 
teach arithmetic" but "to use arithmetic to 
teach the meaning, necessity, and practice 
of food conser\'ation." In the introduction 
the authors state, "Through the use of 
arithmetic in solving these problems children 
will be impressed as they could not be in 
any other way with the immense and funda- 
mental character of the food-conservation 
campaign." Nor do the authors limit their 
suggestions to the presentation of these 
facts through one school subject. In the 
very helpful section entitled " Suggestions to 
Teachers" correlation with other subjects is 
urged. The teacher is stimulated to keep 
in touch with and to do her part to remedy 
community conditions through the active 
interest of the children. Local markets 
are to be studied for current prices and 
conditions, that first-hand information may 
form the basis of the lessons. No claim is 
made that the information provided is ex- 
haustive, but salient facts are clearly and 
concisely stated. A helpful list of bulletins 
gi\'ing more detailed facts is appended. 

Those making use of the book should 
keep in touch, through their State Food 
Administrator, with the current information 
issued by the Food Administration in order 
to correct to date the facts relative to de- 
mands for food that are being made, sup- 
plies available, and recognized substitutes. 
Carrie Alberta Lyfoed, 
U. S. Bureau of Education. 

235 



236 



THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS 



[May 



Department Store Merchandise Manuals. 

New York: The Ronald Press Company, 

1917. S1.25 a volume. 

The Notion Department. By M. Attie 
SOUDER, pp. 160. 

The Cotton and Linen Department. By 
Eliza B. Thompson, pp. 182. 

A series of twenty-five merchandise man- 
uals edited by Beulah E. Kennard, are now 
in preparation, and promise to be not only 
interesting but full of valuable practical 
information to all who are interested in 
textiles, clothing, and house furnishing. 

To quote from the editor's preface ' This 
series is for the purpose of imparting definite 
and authentic information to salespeople 
ivho realize that to give satisfactory service 
to the customer, they must possess a thor- 
ough knowledge of the goods they seU, as 
well as a knowledge of how best to sell 
them." The series will fill a two-fold pur- 
pose, — the preparation for better salesman- 
ship, and more efficient and intelligent 
buying on the part of the consumer. 

Five of these manuals are now on the 
market. The two listed above are more 
closely related to household arts than the 
others that deal with The Leather, The 
Jewelry, and The Stationery Depart- 
ments. 

The one on Notions is unique and most 
interesting. It is a small encyclopedia in 
itielf, containing in the one small volume 
Information which could be found only by 
consulting many volumes, while some of 
the material probably could not be found 
in books. 

The prevalent idea that the Notion 
department is a heterogeneous collection of 
imall articles having no relation to each 
other is overthrown when, in the introduc- 
tion, the stock of this department is defi- 
nitely classified under the following topics: 
(1) Sewing Tools and Supplies, (2) Dress 
Accessories and Findings, (3) Hair Goods, 
(4) Shoe Supplies, and (5) Sundries. But- 
tons are discussed in a separate manual. 
All of the important articles that would 
come under each of these five topics are 
Included in lengthy discussions of each. In 



some cases a brief history of the article is 
given to show the great improvement that 
has been made and to stimulate apprecia- 
tion of the article as it is now on the market. 
The steps in the manufacturing processes 
are given just enough in detail to give a 
comprehensive idea of the construction. 
Many interesting points are brought out, 
as, for e.xample, the fact that so simple an 
article as a needle must go through the 
hands of 100 skilled workmen, and the 
journey through the factory takes from six 
to eight weeks. Lists of the standard 
makes; tables of sizes; and cost of produc- 
tion are given. 

The subject matter is organized in a most 
definite and logical way. Unimportant and 
unnecessary details are omitted, and the 
material is given in a clear cut, straight- 
fonvard style. "Suggestions of ser\'ice to 
customers" are most practical and will train, 
not only for more efficient buying, but for 
the best use and care of the articles bought. 
The Cotton and Linen Manual is written 
in the same direct style. The material is 
well organized. It is not quite so interest- 
ing perhaps as the Manual on Notions 
because we are more familiar with the sub- 
ject matter it contains. 

It first classifies the materials that would 
come under the cotton and linen goods 
departments and gives suggestions for 
attractive arrangements and displays of 
goods. The usual information as to the 
source, cultivation, and manufacturing proc- 
esses of cotton and flax are given. Then 
chapters on finishing of cloth, dyes and 
dyeing, mixtures, adulteration and imita- 
tion, and tests for cotton and linen are 
especially good. They contain a great 
deal of most practical information which 
the average shopper does not know and 
which will be of great value in buying table 
linen, towels, and dress materials. A list 
is given of the standard cotton and linen 
materials that sell by the yard; the origin 
of the name, their distinguishing charac- 
teristics, wearing qualities, and uses. 
IVA Brandt, 
Iowa Stale College, Amis, Iowa. 



1918] 



BOOKS AND LITERATURE 



237 



School and Home Gardening. By Kary K. 

Davis. Philadelphia: J. B. Lippincott 

Co., 1918, pp. 353. $1.28. 
The Home Garden (Patriot's Edition) . By 

Ebe-v E. Rexford. Philadelphia: J. B. 

Lippincott Co., 1918, pp. 198. SI .25. 
Hou> to Make the Garden Pay. By Edward 

Morrison and CaARLZs Thomas Brues. 

Boston: Houghton Mifflin Co., 1917, pp. 

176. $.75. 
The Ch'.d's Food Garden. By Van Evrie 

KxLPATRicE. Yonkcrs-on-Hudson, N. Y., 

1918, pp. 64. S.48. 

School and Home Gardening, as the title 
indicates, is intended for school as well as 
home use. It is not only a te.xt book, 
treating in detail the usual garden subjects, 
but it is also a treatise on the educational 
and social aspects of garden making. 

Many illustrations and diagrams clarify 
the plans and instructions. Chapters 18 
and 19 constitute very complete garden 
calendars for the northern and southern 
states. 

A bibliography of literature for gardeners 
is given in the appendix. 

In The Home Garden, general instructions 
adapted to amateurs are very fully given 
under the headings: Location and Soil; The 
Preparation of the Garden; Planning the 
Garden; Planting the Garden; Garden Im- 
plements; Weeding and Transplanting; The 
Hot-Bed and Cold-Frame; Insecticides and 
Fungicides; What to Grow. These are fol- 
lowed b)- sLt chapters devoted to the growth 
of miscellaneous plants, grapes, and berries. 
Thirty-two pages are given to the gardener's 
calendar containing "suggestions and re- 
minders of work appropriate to each month." 

Bow to Make Ike Garden Pay is a more con- 
cise and simpler volume than either of the 



above, .^fter discussing right planning and 
profitable methods, the authors take up in 
alphabetical order the common vegetables, 
giving in connection with each one the in- 
formation essential for the planting and 
general care of each. 

Insect enemies and diseases are treated 
in a chapter by themselves. 

The appendix includes tables giving fuel 
value and percentage composition of fresh 
vegetables and other foods; a garden plant- 
ing table giving amounts of seeds required, 
distance apart, time of planting, time of 
maturing; and a home gardener's calendar 
for northern states. 

"It is the purpose of this book to tell 
both novices and experienced gardeners 
something about ways and means of making 
small gardens profitable," and the authors 
have succeeded in doing this in a most clear, 
concise, and interesting way. 

The Child's Food Garden is written as 
"a true beginner's book, with directions so 
clear and definite that any child who can 
read can understand them." 

This small book contains a plan of the 
garden, and general directions as to prepara- 
tion of soil and other operations; more defi- 
nite directions for planting and cultivating a 
number of vegetables and flowers; an out- 
line of work for each month of the year; 
suggestions and a time table for canning and 
drying; methods of dealing with plant ene- 
mies and caring for plant friends; frost maps 
and planting tables. 

It is evident that so many subjects could 
not be more than touched upon in so few 
pages, but the garden information is sufficient 
to enable a child to be successful in a small 
space. 

Keturah E. Baldwin 



PAMPHLETS RECEIVED 



Issued by the United States Department of Agriculture: 
United States Food Leaflets: No. 8, Instead of Meat; No. 9, Vegetables for Winter; No. 10, 

Plenty of Potatoes. 
Partial Substitutes for Wheat in Bread Making. By Hannah L. Wessling. No. A-91. 
A Suueisful Community Drying Plant. C. W. Pugsley, Farmers' Bui. 916. 



238 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [May 

Issued by Teachers College, Columbia University: 
Economical Diet and Cookery in Time of Emergency, Technical Education Bulletin No. 30, 
price 15 cents; Bow to Plan Meals in War Time, Technical Education Bulletin No. 33, 
price 20 cents; Ninety Tested, Palatable and Economical Recipes, Technical Education 
Bulletin No. 34, price 30 cents; Some Food Facts, Technical Education Bulletin No. 27, 
price 5 cents; Some Sugar-Saving Sifeets for Every Day, Technical Education Bulletin No. 
35, price 20 cents; Simple Lessons on the Physical Care of the Baby, Technical Education 
Bulletin No. 31, price 20 cents; Lessons in Home Nursing, Technical Education Bulletin 
No. 32, price20 cents. 

Issued by the University of Texas: 
Food Conservation Bulletins: No. 1, Save the Wheat; No. 2, Save the Sugar; No. 3, Save the 
Meat; No. 4, Save the Fat. 

Issued by the Agricultural Extension Service of the University of Wisconsin: 
Hints on What to Eat During the War. Circular 100, February, 1918. 
Know Your Foods. A chart classifying foods in accordance with their composition. 
Ways of Using Corn. Circular 95, Januarj-, 1918. 

Issued by the Iowa State College of Agriculture and Mechanic Arts: 
Short Course Class Notes: No. 2, Cereal Foods; No. 7, Study of Nutrition; No. 8, A New Study 
of Vegetables; No. 9, Salads; No. 10, Cake; No. 12, Inexpensive Cakes; No. 13, Physical 
Efficiency; No. 21 (revised) Suggestions for Meatless Meals; No. 23, Plain Patterns in 
Cookery; No. 24, The Dining Room; No. 26, Fats and Oils. 
Emergency Leaflets: No. 13, Home Preservation of Eggs; No. 25, Fruit and Vegetable Dry- 
ing; No. 27, Wheat Saving Suggestions. 
Home Economics Circulars: No. 5, Suggestions for Household Exhibits; No. 9, Feeding a Child 
of from Nine Months to Two Years; No. 10, Feeding a Child from Two to Three Years 
Old; No. 11, Feeding the Child of Six; No. 15, Uses of Sour Milk; No. 16, Suggestive 
Seasonal Menus. 

Issuedby the National Conference of Social Work: (315 Plymouth Court, Chicago, 111.). 
The Relation of Food Economics to the Nutritive Value of the Diet, Reprint No. 98 of Reports 

and Addresses of the Conference. 
Public Health as a Social Movement. Reprint No. 95 of Reports and Addresses. 
Health in War and Peace, Reprint No. 91 of Reports and Addresses. 

Issued by the publishers listed: 

Study Outline for Food Thrift Tens, prepared by the Home Economics Committee, S. Agnei 
Donham, Chairman, 2 Chestnut St., Boston, Mass. Massachusetts State Federation of 
Women's Clubs. IS cents. 

Report of the Committee on Dietary and Food Supplies in the New York Stale Hospitals. Re- 
print from The State Hospital Quarterly, Nov., 1917. State Hospitals Press, Utica, 
N. Y. 

Conditions in the Sugar Market, Jan.-Oct., 1917. The American Sugar Refining Company. 

Supervision of Home Project Work. Vocational Series No. 14, Department of Public In- 
struction, Indianapolis, Ind. 

Coal Thrift. Bulletin of the Department of University Extension, Commonwealth of Mas- 
sachusetts. Vol. Ill, No. 1, Whole No. 13. Mass. Board of Education, Boston, Mass. 



1918] BIBLIOGRAPHY OF HOME ECONOMICS 239 

BIBLIOGRAPHY OF HOME ECONOMICS 
PERIODIC.\L LITERATURE 

Textiles and Clothing 

Dyes 

Concentration and Consen-ation in tlie Dj-estuff Industrj'- Textile Colorisl, Jan., 1918' 

Color Standards in Economy of Textiles. Redding, Color Trade Jour., Jan., 1918. 

History of Dyeing and Dyes, (Dyes of Early Eg>-pt). H. H. Manchester, Color Trade 
Jour., Feb., 1918. 

Dyestuffs of the .■Vncients. E. E. Pellew, Color Trade Jour., Feb., 1918. 

Theory of Cotton Dyeing. Color Trade Jour., Jan., 1918. 

Starch Substitutes in Germany. Jour. Indus, and Engin. Chem., vo\. 9, p. 1143. Abs. 
in Oil and Color Trade Jour., 52 (1917), p. 98S. 

Wool 

Wool Supply Plenty. Da\'is Kirschbaum, Textile World Jour., Feb., 16, 1918. 
Wool-Facts and Fancies. Dry Goods Economist, Feb. 2, 1918. 
Governments Latest Wool Census. Textile World Jour., Feb. 9, 1918. 
Waterproofing of Woolen Textiles. Jour. Soc. Dyes and Colorists, Jan., 1918. 

Development of Artificial Silk Industr>-. L. P. Wilson, Textile World Jour., Jan. 19 
1918. 

Demands for Silk. Dry Goods Economist, Feb. 9, 1918. 

Future of Silks. Jean L. Duplan, Textile World Jour., Feb. 16, 1918. 

Silk Industry in Japan. Sibling Young, Textile World Jour., Feb. 9, 1918. 

Cotton 

New Cotton Ruling. Textile World Jour., Jan. 26, 1918 . 

Trade with Mexico Could be Improved. Textile World Jour., Feb. 9, 1918. 

Cotton — Increased Exports and Government Orders Cause Shortage. Dry Goods Econo- 
mist, Feb. 9, 1918. 

Rejected Cotton and its Utilization. Te.xtile World Jour., Feb. 16, 1918. 

Use of Cotton as a Wool Substitute. Textile World Jour., Feb. 2, 1918. 

To Stimulate Cotton Gro%ving. Textile World Jour., Feb. 2, 1918. 

Strong Demand for Cotton and Silk and Cotton Mixture. Dry Goods Economist, Jan. 
26, 1918. 

Linen 

As Embargo Tightens Scarcity Grows — Linen. Dry Goods Economist, Jan. 26, 1918. 
Fewer Linen Imports. Dry Goods Economist, Feb. 9, 1918. 

Foods and Nutrition 

Shall We Have .\nother Large Potato Crop? Lou D. Sweet, Amer. Rev. of Rev., Mar., 
1918. 

Early Phases of Food Control. Edinburgh Revieu; Jan., 1918, No. 463, p. 108-130. 

Shall We Eat Whole Wheat Bread? Dr. R. A. Dutcher, Science, Mar. 8, 1918, p. 228. 

Somewhere in New England. The Chronicle of a Hoover Recruit in Rural Districts. 
The House Beautiful, Feb., 1918. 



240 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [May 

The Bureau of Market in its Relation to the Consen'ation of Foods. Charles J. Brand, 
Jour. Indus, and Engin. Chan., 10 (1918), No. 1, pp. 66-68. 

Edible Fats in War and Law. DaNdd Wesson, Jour. Indus, and Engin. Client.. 10, (1918), 
No. 1, pp. 71-72. 

Food Production in Peace and War. Edward J. Russell, Jour. Stale Med., 25 (1917), No. 
12, pp. 370-75. 

The Nutritive Value of Edible Fungi. Jour. Board Agr. [London] 24 (1917), No. 4, pp. 
416-419. 

Food ."Administration Problems. Curtailing the Consumption of Beef. The Breeders' 
Gazelle, Jan. 24, 1918. 

Research on the Detection of Added Water in Milk. Halsey Durand and Reston Steven- 
son, Jour. Indus, and Engin. Chem., 10 (1918), No. 1, pp. 26-30. 

The Banana a Food of Exceptional Value. Samuel C. Prescott, Science Monthly, 6 (1918), 
No 1, pp. 65-75. 

The Cheapest Source of Increased Food Supplies. E. G. Nourse, Science MonlUy, 6 
(1918), No. 2, pp. 116-123. 

The Interrelation of the Surviving Heart and Pancreas of the Dog in Sugar Metabolism. 
.\dmont H. Clark, Jour. Expi. Med., 26 (1917), p. 721. 

New Food Consen,'ation Movement. Boston Med. and Surg. Jour., 178 (1918), No. 2, 
p. 64. 

Food Chemistry in the Ser\'ice of Human Nutrition. Henry C. Sherman, A^. F. Med. 
Jour., 107 (1918), No. 4, p. 163. 

Concessions in Rations of InvaUds. Lancet, Mar. 9, 1918, p. 376. 

The Restricted Supply of Food: Its relation to Health and Efficiency. M. S. Pembrey, 
Jour. Roy. San. Inst., 38 (1917), pp. 51-70. 

Whales and Seals as Food. James Ritchie, Nature, Mar. 21, 1918, p. 45. Note on 
extensive use of these meats in Scotland in earlier centuries. 

Whale Meat in War Time. Nature, Mar. 14, 1918, p. 24. 

Feeding Experiments with Peanuts. Daniels and Loughlin, Jour. Biol. Chem., 33 
(1918), p. 295. 

The Cost of Adequate Nutrition. Ed. Jour. Amer. Med. Assn., 70 (1918), p. 312. 

Potatoes in Bread Making. Ed. Brit. Med. Jour., Jan. 19, 1918. An account of a 
discussion between two French scientists as to the advisabihty of using potatoes in bread, 
especially with bean flour, or eating potatoes as such in place of bread. 

The Meat Ration. Brit. Med. Jour., Feb. 16, 1918. A discussion of an experimental 
rarioning in London. 

The Meat Position. Brit. Med. Jour., Jan. 19, 1918. 

War Edema. Jour. Amer. Med. Assn., 70 (1918), p. 627. A general edema develops 
in prisoners and laborers whose food is chiefly vegetable soups. It is cured by increased 
fat intakes. Med. Rec. Apr. 13, 1918, p. 652 — .\ similar condition with a very different 
explanation. 

Miscellaneous 

Influence of War on Infant Mortality. Hamill, .Inter. Jour. Med. Sci., 155 (1918), 
pp. 1-9. 

Children's Bureau of the American Red Cross in France. Amer. Jour. Med. Sci., 155 
(1918), p. 269. 

Some Considerations Affecting the Replacement of Men by Women Workers. Jose- 
phine Goldmark, Amer. Jmr Pub. Health, Mar. 1918, pp. 270-6. 



NEWS FROM THE FIELD 



The Annual Meeting at Atlantic 
City. The annual meeting of the .\merican 
Home Economics Association, that had been 
planned for August, 1917, was postponed be- 
cause of war conditions that involved the 
attention of so many of the members of the 
Association that it was thought unwise to 
attempt a formal convention at this time. 
During the fall and winter, the need of get- 
ting together was more and more felt, and 
the decision to extend the session usually held 
with the Department of Superintendence of 
the N. E. .\. into a two-day meeting with that 
organization was welcome. 

The meetings were held on Friday and 
Saturday, March 1 and 2, preceded by a 
council meeting on Thursday evening. 
There were about 200 present at each session. 

The president of the Association, Miss Mac- 
Kay, called the meeting to order on Friday 
morning and, in her opening address, out- 
lined the work of the .Association during the 
past year and a half, and its plans and pur- 
poses for the future. The program was 
planned for round-table discussions rather 
than more formal addresses. 

Dr. Ruth Wheeler of the University of 
niinois, presided at the round table on Friday 
morning. The chief topic of the morning 
was WTiat and How to Teach Food Values to 
the General Public, and Dr. McCollum of 
Johns Hopkins presented the practical and 
helpful paper that will be found in this num- 
ber of the Journal. 

Dr. McCollum was followed by Miss 
Caroline Hunt of the Department of .Agricul- 
ture, whom Miss Wheeler introduced as one 
of the people who furnish a good example 
of the statement that "the highest science is 
the ability to put knowledge into usable 
form." Miss Hunt's paper, on A Quick 
Method of Calculadng Food Values, is also 
included in this number of the Jouxkai.. 



Those who have tried this method are most 
enthusiastic as to its value as a time saver 
without loss of accuracy. 

Miss Mary Creswell, of the Office of Ex- 
tension, South, outlined the development of 
the work in the South, showing the tremend- 
ous progress that has been made during the 
last few years, and the changes that it has 
brought about in the home. Her paper had 
an important bearing upon what we shall 
teach in extension work. Dr. Alice Blood, 
who followed her expressed for the teacher 
the sense of responsibility to the community 
and showed how the city housekeeper may 
often be best reached by the one who goes 
into the home on some other errand. Both 
papers will be published later in the Journal. 

Miss Florence Ward, of the Office of Ex- 
tension Work, North and West, emphasized 
especially our cooperation with the Food Ad- 
ministration. Dr. Langworthy made a con- 
tribudon toward our teaching practice that 
is embodied in a paper that will be published 
in the July JotTRXAL. 

Further discussion largely took the place 
of questions to Dr. McCollum. 

The afternoon was a general session with 
the X. E. A., at which Miss .Arnold was the 
chief speaker. A large audience greeted her 
at the Million Dollar Pier, and the Associa- 
tion was justly proud of her as our represen- 
tadve. 

At the evening meeting, Mrs. Woolman 
spoke on Clothing and the War, calling 
attention particularly to the need of coopera- 
tion with the government, as well as with the 
textile men and such bodies as the National 
Garment Makers, in clothing conservation, 
and to the necessity of gathering more mate- 
rial on the subject of clothing. Mrs. Wool- 
man also spoke of the need of conserving 
wool, and gave as one of the reasons why we 
get such conflicting statetnents in regard to 
Ml 



242 



THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS 



[May 



this the comparison in statements between 
unwashed and washed wool, the former 
weighing twice as much as the latter. She 
said that one reason for the shortage is that 
a soldier will need twelve times as much wool 
for his clothing as if he were a civilian, and 
she showed from figures that there is simply 
not enough wool in the world to meet our 
needs. Combinations of wool with other 
goods are often perfectly legitimate. 

Miss Berry presented an admirable state- 
ment of the Smith-Hughes Act for vocational 
training, giving an historical rewew of the 
rise of home economics to a place of recog- 
nized importance since women went out into 
the vocational world, with the different 
effect in the East and West on the develop- 
ment in home economics training. She also 
contrasted the development of different 
branches of vocational education with that of 
home economics in the regular schools. 

The meeting on Saturday morning was 
called to order by Miss MacKay with the 
appointment of a Committee on Resolu- 
tions, Miss Helen Louise Johnson, Chairman. 
Miss Carrie Lj-ford of the Bureau of Educa- 
tion presided at the round table discussion on 
Home Economics in the PubUc Schools under 
War Conditions. Miss Lyford outlined the 
part that the home economics teachers all 
over the country have taken in adapting 
their teaching to the new conditions, and 
stated that this subject has been introduced 
in more than 1000 new places in the past 
year. 

Miss Grace Schemierhom, newly appointed 
supervisor in the New York City Schools, 
presented the work from the standpoint of 
the public school. She referred to a school 
child's answer to the question, "What are 
the members of your family doing to help in 
the war?" After giving the different activ- 
ities of the family, and particularly the food 
conservation on the part of the mother, the 
child added, "Father does not complain." 
Mis6 Schermerhom appUed this to the atti- 
tude of many people toward home economics. 
She emphasized the fact that the war work 
in the public schools should be part of the 
regular work rather than an interference with 



it, and that the change should be in new 
apphcations rather than in essential modifi- 
cation of plans. 

Miss Cara Harris, Supervisor of Home 
Economics, Shelby County, Tennessee, 
raised two points of especial interest, — the 
s>'mpathy with which all the teachers of the 
schools are receiving home economics work, 
and the great influence that the home eco- 
nomics work in the school is having upon the 
community. 

jMiss -Alice Johnson, supervisor in the Phil- 
adelphia schools, followed with the report of 
the special activities in those schools under 
war conditions, speaking of the plan to have 
each cooking center a Food Informational 
Center, and of the fine service for others in 
the sewing classes. 

The last speaker of the morning was Mr. 
Persons, in charge Department of Civilian 
Relief of the Red Cross. He not only gave 
a large measure of inspiration, but epito- 
mized the ideals and aims of the real service 
the Red Cross gives in its civilian relief in a 
way that showed the importance of the work 
as we had never realized it before. A 
further report of his address will be published 
soon in the Journal. 

The meeting on Saturday afternoon open- 
ed with the secretar\-'s and the treasurer's 
reports and those of tlie various committees, 
including the Journal. These reports will 
be published in the bulletin of the Associa- 
tion. 

The most important committee report was 
that of the textile comm.ittee that occupied 
the remainder of the s'.ssion. Mrs. Martha 
H. French, State Normal College, YpsUanti, 
and Miss Ethelvvyn ^Miller, Iowa State 
College, each presented able and intensely 
interesting papers that gave a new insight 
into textile work. Discussion was only 
checked because the time for the close of the 
meeting arrived. Miss Miller's paper ap- 
pears in this number of the Journal and 
Mrs. French's will be published soon. One 
of the characteristics of this annual meeting 
was the varied interests represented. Not 
only teachers with perhaps a larger pro- 
portion of public scliool teaching than usual. 



1918] 



KEWS FROM THE FIELD 



243 



but housekeepers, editors, and magazine 
writers, were present and contributed to the 
discussion. The new officers of the Associa- 
tion have already been reported in the 

JOtJRNAL. 

The National Education Association 
wiU hold its annual meeting in Pittsburgli, 
Pa., June 29 to July 6. The ,\merican 
Home Economics Association uill conduct a 
section meeting on Monday, July 1. 

The New York Association of Dieti- 
tians has been holding monthly meetings. 
At the March meeting, at Teachers' Col- 
lege, there was a lively discussion concern 
ing military rank for dietitians employed 
by the government. The Association de- 
cided that something must be done imme- 
diately to secure this recognition of train- 
ing, — especially now that the nurses of the 
country are trying to obtain it. 

Dr. Sherman of Columbia University gave 
an illustrated lecture on The Present Food 
Problem at Home and Abroad. One im- 
portant point brought out was that little 
rye is produced in this country and the 
amount of wheat saved from its use alone 
would not amount to much. Three-fourths 
of the world's com is grown in the United 
States and a larger consumption of com pro- 
ducts is recommended. 

Dr. Sherman told very vividly the terrible 
results of the lack of milk in Europe, the 
mortality of children being due to this cause, 
to a large extent. 

Dr. Sherman showed by charts that health 
is hetter maintained by obser\-ing the rules 
of the Food Administration than by the aver- 
age way .\mericans have been accustomed to 
consume food. 

The .\pril meeting was varied by a con- 
servation dinner, observing all the principles 
laid down by the Food Administration. 
The meal was prepared and served by the 
class in dietetics of the Central Branch Y.W. 
C. A., under the supervision of Miss Penrose, 
and it demonstrated the good work that can 
be accomplished by applying scientific 
knowledge to government requests. 



.Alter the dinner Mrs. ifary S. Rose of 
Columbia University (Deputy Food Com- 
missioner of Xew York) spoke of the work 
of the State in solving food problems and of 
the continual readjustment demanded by the 
food situation. 

Jliss Lord of Pratt Institute, showed our 
great duty of cooperation in the tremendous 
task of the National Food Administration 
and of tlie necessity of educating the people 
in the principles of conservation. 

Miss George, Head of the Dietitian Divi- 
sion of the Red Cross Nursing Service, urged 
tlie need of dietitians for both foreign and 
home service. She also read letters from 
dietitians in France, showing the present 
lack of standardization of the work of the 
dietitian. 

The May meeting was held in the Nurses' 
Home of the Post Graduate Hospital. Mr. 
Panchard, Comptroller of the Hotel MCi\!pin, 
Hotel Claridge, Cafe Savaran, and the Fifth 
.\venue Restaurant, spoke to the Association 
on "Waste of Food and Conservation." He 
emphasized the necessity of preparing "left- 
overs" in an attractive way if we are to 
eliminate all waste from our kitchens. He 
claimed that .Americans do not know the art 
of preparing cold meats and left-over vege- 
tables in a way that is digestible and pleasing 
to the eye and the palate. 

The Need for Nurses. The United 

States Army and Navy Nurse Corps needs 
8000 additional nurses this June, and before 
the end of the year 25,000 more wiU be re- 
quired to care for the inevitable casualties 
among our military forces. If the war 
should continue for several years the United 
States may need an army of 100,000 
nurses. 

There are now 65,084 nurses registered in 
this country. Of these the American Red 
Cross has equipped and sent abroad 2865 for 
Army and Nav-y serWce, and has enrolled 
approximately 19,000, while more than a 
thousand ha\'e been appointed as instructors 
in elementary hygiene aod home care of the 
sick, and about an equal number are serving 
on committees as recruiting agents. 



244 



THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS 



[May 



As the demand for nurses grows, the pub- 
lic, ae well as the medical apd nursing pro- 
fessions, is confronted with the definite 
responsibility for releasing as many private 
nurses as possible for military duty, for 
utilizing hospital facilities, visiting nurses, 
and smaller organizations where one nurse 
can care for several patients, for preparing, 
through whatever means may be afforded, to 
assist in all matters pertaining to public 
health. 

More than 50,000 women have completed 
the Red Cross course in Home Care of the 
Sick, established to aid women jn caring for 
the minor illnesses in their own homes. This 
helps so far as it goes, but it is of the great- 
est importance that able and educated 
young women should be urged to enter the 
regular training schools in order to fit them- 
selves fully for nursing. 

Home Service. The following resolution 
was adopted by the Home Economics .\sso- 
ciations of Washington, Idaho, and Oregon ; 
Whereas, The State Home Economics 
.Association desires to cooperate in fullest 
measure with the American Red Cross in ful- 
filling its obligation and accepting opportun- 
ity for service for relief in families of enlisted 
men, be it Resolved, That the .Association ac- 
cept the invitation extended by the Red Cross 
to lend assistance through: First, appointing 
a committee which shall cooperate with the 
Division Director of Civilian Relief in all 
efforts to maintain and advance the family 
standard of living; second, (a) in inducing 
home economics leaders to assist their re- 
spective Red Cross Chapter Home Service 
Committee, (b) instructing volunteers in 
home economics principles through the me- 
dium of chapter course training for home 
service, (c) service as friendly visitors to the 
families of soldiers and sailors. 

Pop Corn as a Money Raiser. A unique 
and most successful way of raising money 
for the Red Cross was conducted by the 
Home Economics Association of Cincinnati. 
Pop corn markets were held on two days; 



on the first day pop corn was sold in every 
public school in the city. For the Saturday 
down town drive Miss Lois E. Plimpton, 
President of the organization, had appointed 
teams for the hotels, clubs, department 
stores, drug stores, theaters, and movie 
houses. Bumper balls attractively wrapped 
in red, white, and blue paper were heaped 
high on white covered tables and disap- 
peared as if by magic. The handsome sum 
of $2000 was the net result. The specific 
purpose of the fund is to purchase equip- 
ment for nurses of Base Hospital Unit 
No. 25. 

Notes. A report of the annual meeting 
of the Utah State Federation in The Neiti 
West Magazine has this to say of one of the 
leaders in home economics: 

"The chief event of the convention was 
the inspired address of Miss Alice Raven- 
hill on Woman's Service to the Nation. 
Miss Ravenhill's message to woman is that 
her greatest service to the nation is the 
proper guidance, rearing, and educating of 
the childhood of the nation." 

A knitting machine to knit socks for 
soldiers has been purchased by the Home 
Economics Club of the University of Mis- 
souri. The girls voted to buy a $50 liberty 
bond and the machine, which cost about 
$20. With this machine socks can be 
turned out at the rate of a pair every two 
hours instead of several days. 

British conservation of kitchen waste in 
army camps, effected by the Government 
Committee on Purchase of Refuse, has 
grown from £7,500 for the first month 
adopted to £80,000 in the last month 
reported, and has supplied the entire soap 
requirement for army, navy, asylums, 
workhouses, and other public institutions, 
in addition to glycerine sufficient to propel 
17,000,000 shells per annum. — Industrial 
News Survey. 



Vol. X, No. 6 June, 1918 

THE 

Journal of Home Economics 

For those interested in Homemaking, Institution Management, 
and Educational Work in Home Economics 



M85. Alice P. Xoeion, Edilor Ketdrah E. Baldwin, Managini Editcr 

Editorial Board 
Mss. Maev H. Abel Anna^asrows C. F. Langwokthy Is.vbel Ely Lord Katharine Bldki 

Ex-OJicio if fm6f«— Catharine J. MacKay, President American Home Economics Association 
EuiiA H. GcNTHER, Chairman Institution Economics Section 
RCTH Wheeler, Chairman Science Section 
Neale S. Knowles, Chairman Extension Education Section 

CoUiiorilon— The Officers, Members of the Council, and Advisors 



CONTENTS 

Food Control Herbert Hoover 245 

Le.\rnd-"g the Lesson of Food Conservation Sarah Louise Arnold 255 

OuRSEL\-ES OR THE .\ixiES Alonso E. Taylor 260 

\Vh.« Ret.ul Merch.\nts Are Doing for Food Conservation Sara Merrill 264 

The Work of the LrBR.\RY in Food Conservation Edilh Guerrier 266 

JIy Frien-d in FR.iNCE Tells Me — " 268 

A Stl-dy of Yeast Bre.'U) With Substitute Flours Elizabeth Sprague 272 

The Office of Home Economics and the United States Food .Administration .... 

Jean G. McKinnon 280 
Wheatless Cake .\nd Shortcake 282 



Editorial 



283 



Books and Literature ... 285 

Bibliography of Home Economics -8" 

News FROM the Field -^1 



TBI Jocrnalof Home Economics is published monthly by the American Home Economics .Association. 

$2.00 A YEAR. FOREIGN $2.35. CANADIAN $2.20. SINGLE COPIES 25 CENT.S 

HOW TO REMIT. Remittances should be sent by Check. Express Order or Postal Money Order, payable to the 
American Home Economics Association. Currency, unless mailed in a registered letter, is at the sender s risk. 

NOTICE. When payment is made by check no receipt will be sent unless requested. 

CHANGE IN ADDRESS. Notice of change in address should be sent Two Weeks before the date ot issue on which 
the change is to take effect. The subscriber's Old Address should be clearly indicated in addition to the New Addres*. 

AMERICAN HOME ECONOMICS ASSOCIATION 1211 Cathedr.al St., B.u.timore, Md. 

Entered as second class matter at the Baltimore Post Office 

The Journal OF Home Economics is on sale at John Wanamaker's, Philadelphia; The Old Corner Book Store, Boston; 

A. C. McClure's. Chicago; Baltimore News Comoany, Baltimore; Woodward and Lothrop. Washington 



There must be no let-down in the program of 
conservation with the new harvest. Heartened by 
our success and by the spirit of devotion and self- 
sacrifice shown by the American people, we must go 
ahead more than ever convinced of our responsibility 
to those who fight with us and to those unfortunate 
peoples who look to us as the only source of the food 
supply necessary to keep them from destruction. We 
must keep the plate of the soldiers of the Allied armies 
full. That is the ultimate goal to be attained by the 
food saving program of the American people. 

— R.A.Y LYM.A.N Wilbur. 



THE 

Journal of Home Economics 

Vol. X JUNE, 1918 No. 6 

FOOD CONTROL! 

HERBERT HOO\'ER 

The Food Administration is purely a war institution. Its first and 
primary concern is the feeding of our own people and those of the allies, 
and thereby the maintenance of the strength of all the men, women, and 
children both there and here, and thus the strong arm of our soldiers. 

The necessity for the creation of food administrations in all the 
countries at war with Germany arises solely from the situation in over- 
seas shipping. Over one-third of the world's carr>'ing capacity has been 
diverted directly and indirectly to mihtary purposes, and of the remain- 
der there has been an unceasing loss during the war. 

The first adjustment of this situation has been to isolate the more 
remote markets. There are today abundant stores of food in Australia, 
the East, and in South America, but if the allies were compelled to go 
to these more remote markets for their whole food supply today it 
would require over 2,500,000 tons more shipping than are now in use for 
this purpose. Every ship we save is a ship built. The measure of ships 
saved by food supplied directly from North America is, until our ship- 
ping expands, the measure of ships for our own soldiers. 

The whole war- food problem is simply and solely a determination of 
the amount of food that can be spared from North America. The 
marginal amount must be drawn from the more remote markets. 

In the daily toil of all these Food Administrations there have grown up 
new and practical issues in matters hitherto regarded as pure science. 

Terms strange to the lips of all but scientists three years ago are now 
our daily vocabular>-. One must now reduce food to its physiolog- 
ical value, considering the most concentrated and durable forms for 
overseas transport and for the health and strength of populations. 

' Extracts from an address before the Pittsburgh Press Club, April 18, 1918. 



246 THE JOUENAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [JunC 

Europe today is eating to live, and to live it matters little, for instance, 
whether fats are drawn from creamery butter, from margarin, from 
lard, or from vegetable oil, or cheese. What does matter to food ad- 
ministrators is how much fat can be secured and can be delivered to 
the needy points with the least use of ships. To carry this instance 
further, Europe at one time produced most of her own fats and to do this 
it was necessary to import a large tonnage of forage. It requires three 
times the tonnage to transport fodder that it does the fats made from 
feeding the animals. Therefore, the various allied administrations have 
stopped the overseas shipment of feed for food animals, and we must 
find increased exports of fats, and direct our production to this end. 

Our ability to supply the allied world with food lies in four directions: 

First. The United States usually produces a small surplus of food for 
e.xport over and above our normal consumption. This surplus we can 
export without economic disturbance. 

Second. We have for years exported to other countries than the 
allies. By partial or complete embargo of these shipments we can 
slightly increase the supplies available to the aUies. 

Third. We can expand the area planted, and if our harvests are nor- 
mal we can enlarge the surplus for export. 

Fourth. Our normal consumption and waste of food are anywhere 
from 15 to 20 per cent more than is necessary to maintain our own public 
health and strength, and we can in an emergency restrict the national 
consumption to our need and thereby increase our exports. 

Our resiliency of resources in these four directions, principally the 
latter, is such that we can, if we have the will to do so, maintain the 
strength of the allies and our own people, and all talk of famine is mere 
hysteria. Our world food situation is not to be interpreted as famine; 
at worse it is to be interpreted in terms of soldiers to France, or in terms 
of larger shipbuilding programs. 

As to what our marginal possibilities of exports to the alUes may 
amount to, we can gain some idea if we review the situation since our last 
harvest — a period coincident with the period of the Food Administration. 

Because of the enormous demand upon us during the previous year we 
entered the last harvest with our national stocks of cereals practically 
exhausted. We carried over less foodstuff to the new harvest than at 
any time during many years. Our herd of hogs, our most ready and 
prolific fat supply, was apparently below normal as the result of pre- 
vious years' hea\y exports, and we were faced with increased demands. 



1918] FOOD CONTROL 247 

If we reduce our annual production to its actual nutritive value we 
find that our production of 1917 is about 7 per cent below the average 
of the three pre\dous years, and we have had to reduce our consumption 
by about 7 per cent this year in order to do out duty by the allies. 

With increased prosperity in wide sections of the community engaged 
in agricultural and industrial pursuits the standards of living have been 
raised and the food consumption of the American people materially in- 
creased. How acute this is may be indicated by the fact that our con- 
sumption of beef products apparently increased by 10 per cent during 
1917. We therefore had to stem the tide of increasing consumption. 

The necessity of this reduction in consumption falls unequally on 
various commodities depending upon the durability of these commodi- 
ties, their convenience in shipping, and the food habits of the people we 
feed. Nor can we anticipate in advance exactly what may be required 
from us in these disturbed times. As illustrating both points — we 
originally calculated that we must ship 100,000,000 bushels of wheat 
this year. We have had to raise this to 160,000,000 bushels, out of a 
home surplus of only 20,000,000 bushels over our normal consumption. 
Thus we have been compelled to increase our conservation during the 
last half of the year. 

Another instance of the disturbances in original plans arose from the 
two and one-half months of storm weather which paralyzed our railways. 
Our hogs were blockaded on our farms, and the situation not only 
rendered diiEcult the supply of meats in this period, but the flood of ani- 
mals released with improved transport overcharged our storage and ship- 
ping capacity. We therefore were compelled to relax our conservation 
efforts for a short period until the flood passed. It can thus readily 
be seen that there can be little fixity of pohcy in an administration that 
is dependent on the exigencies of war and shipping. We must alter our 
tactics from day to day to meet the changing world situation. 

The reduction of consumption during this year has been vital. To 
secure it we had three alternatives of action. Rationing; bidding up 
prices in the purchase of alhes' supphes until the consumption falls; 
obtaining a voluntary reduction of the individual consumption, simpler 
Uving, economy in waste, substitution of commodities we have in 
greater abundance for those we need to export. 

Any system of positive rationing of the United States bristles with 
difficulties. Fifty per cent of the population are either producers or 
live in intimate contact with the producer, and, therefore, can not be 



248 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [June 

restrained in their consumption by any rationing. The consumption of 
the very poor is not beyond the necessities of their health and strength. 

Our industrial population varies greatly in its habit of consumption 
of any given commodity in different parts of the country. Furthermore, 
this class of the community varies greatly in its habit in different sec- 
tions of the United States as to the commodities they consimie. For 
instance, the southern worker consumes perhaps not more than 2 pounds 
of wheat products per week per capita, whereas in some parts of the 
North the worker consumes 8 pounds. Rationing of wheat on any 
broad national Une would increase the consumption beyond necessity 
in the South and decrease it in the North below necessity. Furthermore, 
to adopt rationing as a positive system would cost the Government 
$10,000,000 or $15,000,000 annually for bureaucratic expense. 

It has been believed by many that the best adjustment in consumption 
would be obtained by increasing price levels in that commodity in which 
it is desired to reduce consumption by simply bidding up the price for 
allied supplies. I feel strongly, however, that reduction of consumption 
to the extent that we require by an increasing price is simply and purely 
to place certain commodities out of the reach of those classes of the 
community who have not the purchasing power, and that this concep- 
tion is simply conservation for the rich and against the poor. The 
adoption of this principle would mean that the poorer sections of our 
community would have paid in suffering and the better-to-do would have 
paid in price many score times the cost of any other system of reduction. 

If we are to increase the price of our foodstuffs merely to decrease 
their consumption, we must enter a vicious circle of constant readjust- 
ment of wages, for our working people must Hve. 

Furthermore, we could no doubt reduce the consumption, for instance, 
of sugar by 20 per cent, if we doubled the price, but to double the price 
of sugar alone means an annual drain on our population of $600,000,000 
and this $600,000,000 would go into the hands of a vast number of 
middlemen and would give rise at once to profiteering, discontent, and 
would lay the foundations for social revolution. 

In considering the whole problem, we determined upon a line not 
hitherto appUed and the success of which we believe will be one of the 
remembered glories of the American people in this titanic struggle. That 
is, that we should place the reduction of consumption on a voluntary 
basis. We felt that we could secure voluntary reduction by savings 
which would be made — not from the necessities of the poorer classes of 



1918] FOOD CONTROL 249 

the community, but in the saving out of plenty by the better-to-do 
classes. 

\'oluntary conservation has as well a moral side, to my mind, of some 
importance. By it we are appealing directly for the self-sacrifice of the 
people of the United States to the carrj'ing on of the war. I do not believe 
that there is another nation in the world in which the proportion of 
indi\-iduals of a willing sense of self-sacriiice is so high as in this people 
of ours, and in which a sufficient voluntary reduction could be obtained. 
Our program therefore has been a hazard upon the number of people of 
this kind in the United States. This basis of reduction gave some 
trepidation to the allies, but I am happy to say that we shall have per- 
formed our national duty, the allies will have been fed during this harvest 
year, so far as the obligation falls upon us, almost wholly upon a volun- 
tary footing. Far beyond this, it is justifying us in our belief in the 
high idealism of the American people and their willingness to sacrifice. 

We have had some criticism from individuals who believe that they 
should not be called upon to do more than their neighbors willingly do. 
In response to this, my feeling is that our Army does not fail to go over 
the top because there may be two or three slackers hiding in the trenches. 

Aside from the prime necessity of protecting our independence and 
our institutions, there is but one possible benefit from the war, and 
that is the stimulation of self-sacrifice in the people, the hfting of its 
ideals, and the diversion from its peace-time inclinations toward the 
purely material things in life, to a strengthening of its higher purposes. 
I do not say that such compensations are full compensations for war, 
but they are at least an amehoration of the terrible currents that are 
threatening our existence. Therefore we felt that if there could be 
brought home to the sense of every American household the necessity 
of this personal and individual sacrifice we would have spread the 
opportunity for service beyond those who sacrifice in giving their sons 
to immolation on the national altar. 

There is another side of all this to those of us who have Hved behind 
the German lines. No hour goes by but our hearts are haxmted by the 
scenes of long lines of emaciated women and children who today and 
for three years have gathered in Belgium for their daily bread from 
America. That pittance — their all — represents scarcely the wastes 
from American tables. This winter these lines have, for the first time 
during the war, gathered in the poorer sections of England, France, and 
Italy. Not only should this puU at our hearts, but, beyond this, it is a 



250 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [June 

menace to our very safety. In the presence of a common enemy we sit 
at a common table with all people defenders. Is the daily call of the Food 
Administration for less waste, for simpler living, to eat only for strength, 
not a call to conscience? Is it not a vital call of defense? 

As to next year we can formulate no plans until we know the harvest. 
Our farmers are this year, despite great handicaps, making the greatest 
of efforts. The weather is, however, our real and final food controller. 
If we have a bumper crop we can save many ships from the long voyages. 
Even without a bumper crop we could save more food next year. A 
crop failure, so far as to spell famine, is humanly impossible; the worst 
might spell more conservation. 

The reduction of food supplies below normal and all of the conxmercial 
difficulties connected with the aggregation of these reductions in dis- 
turbance to inland and overseas transportation have caused new currents 
in our economic life, and the Food Administration has, by force of 
necessity, had to pioneer untraveled paths in the economic jungle of war 
as an incident to its main purpose. 

So far the Goverimient has developed no principle of price-fixing as a 
broad economic policy. Dislocations apply first to one great commodity 
and then to another, and, therefore, our aspect of the problem is to deal 
with them as they arise, commodity by commodity. We are deahng 
with conditions and not with theories. 

Every export from the United States today is under control. It 
is controlled that it may serve the positive mihtary ends of the Govern- 
ment. All of our exports are directed to supporting the aUies, or, alterna- 
tively, where we deal with neutrals, to get the quid pro quo for the sacri- 
fice of our commodities. 

It was found by experience to be absolutely impossible to trust to the 
normal comnaercial agencies to select the prime commodities necessary 
for national existence among the alHes and to trust to the incidental 
operation of trade to maintain the maximum handhng of shipping. 

Therefore, the European governments have been compelled to under- 
take, as the consequence of shortage on supphes, the single-handed pur- 
chase of their supphes both for civil and military purposes. There 
has thus grown up an enormous consolidation of buying of 120,000,000 
European people, a phenomenon never before witnessed in the economic 
history of the world. 

The buying for our own men is necessarily concentrated in one agency. 



1918] FOOD CONTROL 251 

instead of 5,000,000 separate agencies as before, and we have thus 
in our midst a second great engine as a necessity of war conditions. 

In order that these two buying agencies should not get in each other's 
way it has been necessary to place them under joint direction. In the 
final outcome, therefore, we find ourselves in the presence of a gigantic 
monopoly of buying just as potent for good or evil as any monopoly in 
selling, and in many instances either making or influencing prices. 
Therefore, not through any theory, but through an actual physical fact, 
the price made by this gigantic buyer dominates the market. This is 
price fixing in a light never contemplated in economic history or theory, 
and it is time that economic thinkers denude themselves of their pro- 
crustean formulas of supply and demand and take cognizance of it. 

It is entirely possible for the Government to make these purchases to 
the best advantage of the alhes and to the Army and Navy and to disre- 
gard totally the ci\dHan population, either the consumer or the producer. 
WTien these purchases aggregated to such a volume as to make inroads 
on the normal consumption of the civilian it would mean that the residue 
would go to the highest bidder. 

This would be conservation again for the rich and not for the poor with 
a vengeance. Had we allowed this to go on in wheat, flour would today 
be $40 a barrel, instead of a universal price of practicaUy $12. 

The producer is also subject to damage by these great buying agencies. 
Production of food does not take place evenly over the year; it is seasonal. 
It is entirely possible for such a monopoly to manipulate prices in the 
season of surplus marketing to figures below the producers' cost. Again, 
transportation both inland and overseas is subject to every vicissitude of 
war. Temporary stoppages in transport can produce every speculative 
disaster unless some stabiHty is given to markets. Therefore both sides, 
consumer and producer, must be safeguarded by wise direction of this 
buying power, and this is bound to result in price regulation in certain 
commodities in just protection to both. 

Our great President has stated definitely that where war purchases 
dominate the market the civil population must be protected equally with 
the Government. 

At this point there is a principle in national war economics that 
seems to me fundamental. I do not believe that any person in this 
United States has a right to make one cent more profit out of any 
employment than he would have made under pre-war conditions. I 
do not care whether this refers to the farmer, to the laborer, to the 



252 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [JunC 

manufacturer, to the middleman, or to the retailer; to me, every cent 
taken beyond this standard is money abstracted from the blood and 
sacrifice of the American people. 

I do not beUeve that extortionate profits are necessary to secure the 
maximum effort on the part of the American people in this war. If we 
are going to adopt that theory, we have admitted everything that has 
been charged against us of being the most materialistic, the most avari- 
cious, and the most venal of people in this world. If we are going to 
admit that the Government, in order to secure the supreme effort of its 
citizens in production, must bribe them with money to this exertion, we 
have admitted a weakness of American character, of American civiliza- 
tion, and of American ideals that puts us on a plane below German 
Ktdtur. Moreover I am not at all convinced that extortionate returns 
do stimulate production, for they may tend to cause relaxation in effort. 

Do not mistake that I am saying that prices and wages should return 
to the pre-war normal, because the incidence of war before we joined in it 
had lifted our costs of operation, and there must be compensation in 
every direction. Nevertheless, I hold that any man who has made 
more than his necessary living out of the cost this Nation is giving in the 
blood of the boys we are sending to France should not stand out as a 
benefactor to his community. 

I have had this statement met before now with the expression that it 
is dreamy ideaUsm, but I have found no individual who was prepared in 
his own instance to defend any such line of action. 

This doctrine has been made law only to the larger food trades. I am 
confident that profiteering has, from a national point of view, been 
greatly reduced in the regulated food trades, and in consequence my 
belief is that it should be applied generally to all business in this country, 
and it is also my belief that before we are finished with this war, that will 
have been done. 

To me this goes much further than the mere case of the individual and 
the blame that may be attached to him. As I have seen this war de- 
velop from an active participation in its backwash and misery since its 
first day, I have seen growing out of the masses of people in every coun- 
try aspirations for a great economic change. That change, broadly, 
will be in the view of extremists that those who work with their hands 
will obtain a larger portion of this world's goods, and those who work 
with their brains will obtain less, while those who do not work should 
obtain nothing. 



1918] FOOD CONTROL 253 

Aly own view is that hand and brain workers will obtain a larger 
proportion of that which formerly went to the nonworkers — war taxation 
will do this in any event. 

If we are to bring about this economic change in an orderly and 
American way, and not by con\^lsions during the period of recuperation 
from the war, we must lay the foundations for it now. None of us wants 
a repetition in the United States of the history of the last 12 months of 
Russia. The proper social development of this country along these 
lines fills the background of all men's minds and its proper guidance 
rests upon the liberal and thinking men of the country. 

Since the Food Administration was founded the price of food commodi- 
ties has increased 18 per cent to the producer and decreased 12 per cent 
to the consumer. 

This has been accomplished largely by voluntary cooperation of the 
food trades. Ninety-five per cent of our traders desire to serve the com- 
mon interest and the measure of their cooperation is one of the most 
illuminating proofs of the high sense of service in our people. 

Another economic theme which the Food Administration has had to 
pioneer is that of sa\'ing. Speaking broadly, we have some 36,000,000 
of able-bodied manhood. 

Already we have diverted from 8,000,000 to 10,000,000 men from their 
normal occupations toward war and the products it requires. It is 
possible that we can increase the exertion of the remainder of our pro- 
ductive population by eliminating nonessential labor, by more intensive 
labor and longer hours, by the application of woman's labor, by putting 
the boys into labor earlier than otherwise, and can make up some of 
the gap Ln our productive units. We can not, however, compass the 
whole, and the deficiency can only be overcome by the reduction in the 
consumption of commodities. 

This does not apply to food alone; it applies to every commodity of 
which we consume more than is necessary for our health and comfort. 
We must strip to the bone in order that we may afford the economic 
luxury of the diversion of this portion of our productive power to the 
destruction of war. 

The subscription of Liberty Bonds from surplus income is no sacrifice 
for the American people. It is a superlative investment. It is the 
saving that we make in the consumption of commodities and in the 
employment of labor that is the sacrifice for the winning of this war. 



254 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [June 

Another prime economic theme by which I am impressed in this war 
is this: The American ideal in executive work is efficiency, but efficiency 
does not alone mean the best appliances and the greatest numbers made 
for the least cost. In war it involves a new factor that transcends all 
others — and that is speed. 

In this light measures taken, results attained, can not be judged by 
the microscopic inspection of the threads in the tapestry. Its broad 
lines, its inspiration, must be attained quickly, not by years of careful 
development. It will be of no avail to us if we lose a war, even though 
it may cost less per unit than any war in history. 

The foundation of our civilization lies in the stimulation and freedom 
of self-initiative — the fullest development of the individual. It is a 
philosophy of peace. German Kultur is based upon the submergence 
of the individual in the State to the ultimate maximum efficiency and 
power of the State. It is a philosophy of domination and of aggression — 
it is the philosophy of war. These truisms are oft stated nor are they, 
since 1914, a mere philosophic discussion. Those of us who lived for years 
in the sufferings of the Belgian people carry no literary illusions. The 
robbery and destruction not only of homes but of cities and of provinces, 
the butchery of pleading people, the thousands led, literally in chains, 
to slavery in German mines — all that the name of German arms might 
carry terror to the whole world, is no philosophic discussion. 

We are in a life and death struggle to stamp out a system, to right a 
wrong, to preserve our institutions, our freedom, to preserve the right to 
peace. The first of the races which resisted the Germans were the Slavs. 
They have been crushed. The Latin nations are still vigorously in the 
field, but the long brunt of battle has worn them severely. Our Enghsh 
cousins are the next to carry the full brunt of aggression. Today they 
stand between us and Prussianism. Our turn comes next. No matter 
what happens to them all, we must go through. They may conceivably 
— worn by exhaustion — fall by the wayside. We may become the last 
hope of 350,000,000 overrun, liberty-loving men, women, and children. 
If our associates fail, it may take us twenty years to right the wrongs done. 
Twenty years is a short time in the history of our race. Every increased 
atom we sacrifice today shortens the period of our travail. We must do 
it, or we are no longer free people. 



1918] THE LESSON OF FOOD CONSERVATION 255 

LEARNING THE LESSON OF FOOD CONSERVATION 

SARAH LOXnSE ARNOLD 
Dean of Simmons College and Member of the United Slates Food Administration 

The rapid advance of the food conservation idea has been a notable 
event in the history of education. If we have heretofore confused the 
two terms, schooHng and education, the events of the food campaign 
will help to clear our understanding, for now we are observing the edu- 
cation of a nation confronted with the problems of war and rapidly 
adjusting itself to conditions hitherto unknown. The processes of edu- 
cation are ordinarily slow, as we see them. We have outlined careful and 
deUberate courses of study, giving many years to the training of our 
youth and the mastery of certain ideas, but the war has decreed a differ- 
ent curriculiun for us. Messages involving world problems have been 
given us to read. It has been necessary for us, as students, to wrench 
ourselves away from accustomed habits and traditions and to look at 
famihar things in a new Ught against the background of the world tragedy. 

When they said to us in the beginning, "Food will win the War," 
we dimly understood. That the nation should have vast plans with 
reference to the food supphes of the world, and that these should have 
their bearing upon the war seemed reasonable enough, but completely 
remote, as have been most of our subjects in school; and that we as 
individuals should have any part in the matter, should even become 
pars pri?iceps, seemed impossible. 

Nor was this a strange judgment on our part. Food and the par- 
taking of food, had always been a personal matter — intimate, individual. 
We had eaten what we pleased, chosen what we liked; we had ceased 
eating when we thought, or felt, that we had had enough. Fond mothers 
rejoiced in their ability to present Johnny with his favorite pie, and Susie 
with her beloved layer chocolate cake. The Jones family made one sort 
of gravy and the Brown family another, according as Grandmother 
Jones or Grandmother Brown had dictated. We had a line scorn of 
the curious food habits of other countries, and even traveled abroad 
bemoaning the kind of fried potatoes we used to have at home. 

It was startling to imagine that these personal affairs and tastes of 
ours had become the nation's concern. The first immediate reaction on 
the part of many of us was criticism, question, and even revolt. Was not 
this the land of the free as well as the home of the brave? If freedom 
did not mean eating what we, as individuals, chose to eat, what did it 
mean? 



256 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [JunC 

Fortunately the food production campaign was urgent, and almost 
spectacular. It demanded, even commanded, attention from all of us; 
and it secured cooperation from all of us, as events proved. Leaning 
over our backyard fences, to confer with our neighbors who had likewise 
planted precious potatoes in a barren soil, we somehow became accus- 
tomed to the notion that the nation had made its demand upon us with 
reference to food, and that we were attempting to comply. The national 
family was bigger than it had been ; there were more mouths to feed ; it 
was easy to see that more food must be raised; everyone wanted to help. 
Thus the way was paved for our introduction to "food conservation." 
Here was a quantity of perishable food stuff which must be conserved 
or it would go to waste. Food conservation then became synonymous 
with putting perishable food stuff into cans in such fashion that it would 
keep. 

Perhaps this definition of food conservation was accepted chiefly by 
the men who were interested in food problems. To them it seemed 
distinctively woman's work, except when it was undertaken on a large 
scale by the community, or on a commercial basis by the canneries; and 
this definition seemed to them adequate. Meanwhile the Food Admin- 
istration was constantly appealing to the families of America, urging the 
prevention of waste and careful economy in the choice and use of foods. 
The more thoughtful among us were from the beginning adjusting ©ur 
minds to the essential uses of food. How could we test our economy 
if we did not understand food values? 

What is food for? Of the available foods, which are the essential 
foods? How much is enough for you or for me, for the baby, or for the 
robust and active father of the family? What foods can safely be packed 
into the luncheon basket? What foods can be bought already prepared? 
What foods must be brought from afar, and what can be secured near 
home? Which foods are indispensable, and which ma}^ easily be dropped 
from our list? 

If such questions must be answered by every woman, it becomes 
clearly evident that no true economy or conservation of food can take 
place without enhghtenment of the public mind; that everyone who 
draws upon the food supply of the country must be taught to choose 
wisely and to take no more than is necessary or fair for his share. 

We may rejoice then, that home economics, though in its youth, was 
ready with a reasonable answer to many of these questions; — that 



1918] THE LESSON OF FOOD CONSERVATION 257 

nutrition experts were in the iield. that the Department of Agriculture, 
with its forces, and the various institutions providing instruction in 
home economics or maintaining laboratories of nutrition were ready 
to explain to all of us the real use of food and the manner in which it 
should be chosen and prepared. The home economics forces promptly 
rallied and offered their aid to the Food Administration. Many of the 
leading home economics workers spent their summer in Washington, 
preparing outlines and bulletins for distribution, answering the myriad 
questions, and helping to instruct the anxious women who had all at 
once discovered that they were unprepared for the duty which had been 
theirs for years and yet which they had not consciousl}^ measured. 

It is now more than a year since war was declared. Those who have 
watched the food campaign from the beginning are aware of a complete 
change in the attitude of the general pubhc. Instead of the irritated 
rejoinder when personal privilege seemed to be questioned, we find now the 
prompt and almost complete response to the appeal of the nation. In 
other words, a psychological miracle has been accomphshed. We are 
recognizing the food supply as belonging to the world in this period of 
national anxiety and upheaval. We are waiting for the day's orders, 
anxious to know what food stuffs are needed by the nation and, there- 
fore, what foods are available for us. We have begun to understand 
that we — with the Allies, the war-worn women and children across the 
sea, our boys who are at the front — are sitting at a common table. Be- 
fore we can partake of food, we must ask ourselves whether their need 
is greater than ours, and whether the food which we would choose must 
be set aside for them — dedicated to them. 

This consciousness is now deep, strong, and nation-wide. We have 
developed the community conscience, the world conscience. Further- 
more we are seeing ourselves as a part of the nation, standing shoulder 
to shoulder with our neighbors and receiving the common command. 
Uncle Sam says to us, as he looks from the familiar poster, "I want 
you." This means, "I need you." The message comes to each and 
everyone of us. 

The great truth concerning the food campaign is that every individual 
is responsible for its success. Everyone of us is a consumer of food. 
Everyone of us faces food three times a day, choosing either to pull down 
and deplete the precious supplies which must avail until the next 
harvest ; or each one of us determines loyally to make no drain upon this 
all-too-small food store of the nation. 



258 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [june 

If there had been shipping enough, these lessons would not have 
been so clear and so insistent. If all foods alike could have been shipped 
across the sea, our anxieties would have been greatly lessened. But, 
from the beginning, it was apparent that the bulky foods must be left 
at home and that only the most essential and those that could be packed 
in the smallest space could be sent abroad. From day to day our vision 
cleared, our understanding increased. Just now our attention is cen- 
tered upon wheat. If the nation's supply is to prove sufficient for the 
Allies and our dependents across the sea, some of us must let go our 
demands upon wheat. It is not safe to trust to old habit or to average 
careful use. Everyone who understands, everyone who can aid, must 
do his utmost in order to safeguard the precious store. 

We have become conscious not only of the starving Belgians, the heroic 
French, the valiant and enduring English, but we have also remembered 
that the food supply of our crowded tenements is dependent upon our 
choice and our intelligence. We have come to understand that the food 
upon our breakfast table depends upon the great areas of production, 
where the farmer plows, sows, and reaps, that we may be fed. We 
know something of the heroism that risks everything for the season's 
crop, and in imagination we take hold of hands with this heroic worker 
on whom we have so long depended, but whom we have so little under- 
stood. We begin to measure the anxieties of transportation and to know 
that the ton of coal needs an army of men, if it is to be brought to our doors. 
We begin to realize how our thoughtless demand modifies the supply 
here and elsewhere. If there is quibble, or irritability, or complaint, or 
revolt, we know that it is because the light has not yet reached the one 
who makes the complaint; his eyes have not yet been opened to the na- 
tion's need and to his personal duty. 

Never in hiunan history has there been so strong an appeal to every 
individual of the nation; never have we faced with clearer eyes our own 
duty; never have we been nearer the clear understanding of this common 
obligation. 

When the nation said to us, "We must ship all the food that can be 
spared. How much can you spare?" we remembered, with a sinking 
sense of failure, that we were unable to answer the question. We do not 
know how much is enough; we have not understood the true purpose 
and use of foods. This one function of home economics is therefore for 
the present in the limelight, or rather it is under the searchlight. One 
question after another faces us : the answer must come out of thoughtful 
study and attention to the daily problem. 



1918] 



THE LESSON OF FOOD CONSERVATION 



259 



How shall we learn? There is already available a considerable library 
of valid material. The nation teaches us through the Food Adminis- 
tration and the Department of Agriculture. Every morning's paper 
furnishes us with new and reliable statements of fact. It behooves 
every thoughtful individual to understand his responsibility for choosing 
food wisely and of maintaining his health and vigor, so far as food can 
maintain it. No longer should we omit from our school programs this 
vital subject. No longer should we shirk the responsibility. Somewhere 
in the course of the schooling provided for the nation, this important 
subject should be properly treated. Those most liberally educated 
should help to determine the place of this subject in the school curricu- 
lum, but, after the experience of this past year, no thoughtful student 
of education can assent to the exclusion of the subject from the school 
program. 

This review of the progress of the food conservation idea is addressed 
to those thoroughly familiar with home economics. We may rejoice 
that we are beginning to see clearly the big and essential choices which 
we must make. We are learning to see our individual habits and 
traditions against the background of the world need; we are beginning to 
recognize ourselves as soldiers of the common good; and we are beginning 
to discern the difference between the little and the great, the essential 
and the non-essential. 

Let us hope that out of this great experience through which we are 
passing, we shall all learn to see our work in a new light, to devote 
ourselves anew to the greater gospel, and to set forth as now revealed to 
us the great essentials of the American home and the responsibility which 
must forever rest upon those who determine its influence. 




A Bread Card Sent from France. This Amount Was Ailovved Thkee Times 
A DaV 



260 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [June 

OURSELVES OR THE ALLIES" 

ALONZO E. TAYLOR 
Untied Stales Food Administration and War Trade Board 

I wish very briefly to lay stress upon three points that every one in 
this room ought to realize and accept as war poHcies. 

We have got to reach the place, each one of us, where we define every 
decision in our lives as an act of war pohcy. Everything that we do, 
plan, eat, wear, must be analyzed and measured from one single point of 
view — will it contribute to the carrying on of the war, or will it contribute 
to its prolongation. There is no other thing in the world for us but to 
define everything in our lives as acts of military necessity or polic}'. 

The first necessity for us is to get a clear conception of the relation of 
wheat in the human diet and to divest ourselves of all preconceptions 
that a life of generations of ease, indolence, and luxury has bred in us. 

We are accustomed to regard wheat as a more or less indispensable 
article of diet. It is not. It is an article of luxury, and absolutely noth- 
ing else. Wheat possesses over oats, corn, and rice absolutely no nutri- 
tional quality for man or beast. It has no more protein, and no better 
protein. It has no more fat and no different fat. It has no mineral 
salt better or in larger amounts. It has no more fuel or better fuel. 
It is just one of the cereals, and there is not the slightest evidence that it 
is the best one, because, so far as comparative tests are concerned in ani- 
mals, it is not the best one; it is very far from the best one. 

Our predilection for wheat is solely a question of taste, comfort, and 
convenience; it is absolutely nothing else. Wheat makes the nicest 
bread, the lightest bread, the bread that is transported best, the bread 
that keeps moist and sweet longest. It lends itself to the habits of ease 
and convenience of a people; and because it lends itself to the convenience 
of a people, we want it sent to Europe and not kept here, and we ask 
and expect the American man and woman in judging of every situation as 
contrasted with that of the Allies, men and women, to ask who has the 
larger burden to bear, who has borne it the longest, who has wasted in 
resources the most, who has lost the most by sacrifice, who has suffered 
the most in death and destruction, we or the Allies? And when we 
have a choice as to whether we or they should increase or decrease our 
burden, it ought to be not the duty, but the joyful privilege of every 

' An address given at the Meeting of Hotel Men, New Willard Hotd, Washington, D. C, 
March 29, 1918. 



1918J OURSEL\'ES OR THE ALLIES 261 

American to lessen the burden of every man, woman, and child in the 
.\llied countries of Europe, by accepting the heavier burden on this side. 
And because wheat is easier to prepare than oats and rice and barley — 
that is the very best reason in the world why we ought to accept the 
oats and rice and barley and to give them the wheat that is necessary 
to maintain a normal ration. 

You serve a great many food faddists and cranks, and you will hear 
a great many expressions that your patrons cannot eat this or that, 
merely because they are accustomed to this or that other thing, or be- 
cause they have had idiosyncrasies bred in them or developed by luxury. 

Now, whenever any one of your patrons tells you that he or she cannot 
eat oats, or rice, or corn, but must have wheat, that individual is either 
a crank or a slacker, and deserves from your hand only the consideration 
proper to the one or the other. 

We have all to decide whether we will serve the Allies, who need help 
the most, or whether we will serve ourselves who need it less. We had 
better begin serving the Allies now. 

The second point that I wish to emphasize, and this is based upon 
European experience in the art of rationing, is the enormous positive 
example, the worth of the example, of the highest grade hotels and 
restaurants. There is no such thing as enforcing a food conservation 
program in public eating houses imless the ver>' best hotels and restaur- 
ants lend the positive example in every way and in the most punctilious 
fashion. The greatest diet difficulties in Germany today are due to the 
fact that the poor man realizes that the big hotels do notplay the game. 
A rich man today in Germany can buj^ anything he has the price to pay 
for- — hams at $60 to $70 apiece, butter at $5 a pound. Any delicacy 
outside of the regulations can be bought by a man of wealth in Germany 
today, and this has honeycombed that nation with graft. And it started 
with the very best hotels, the Adlon, the Esplanade, and they are today 
responsible for the disorganization of the rationing systems in public 
eating places. Each manager or owner of the high grade hotel and eat- 
ing house has a positive influence and example that cannot be measured, 
as judged by European experience. Each one of you has the chance to 
be a big brother to a Boy Scout, and how the Boy Scout acts will depend 
very largely upon not only your example but your positive working in- 
fluence with the institutions and establishments that are smaller, sunpler, 
and in no way as influential as your own. 

We have just sent over two of the best food experts of the United 



262 THE JOURNAL OF HOAIE ECONOMICS [June 

States to Europe, and the striking thing contained in their letters from 
London and Paris is the scarcity of food in the best hotels of those two 
cities. 

Thirdly and lastly, you have a very important field of negative ex- 
ample. It is not possible to maintain a conservation program in the 
home, if the husband can leave and go to a hotel and escape it. It is 
impossible for a home program to be successful, so long as hotels, res- 
taurants, public eating houses and clubs will give the spoiled man those 
things to eat which the housewife is trying to keep him from having. 

This is not a theory; it is an absolute fact. We hear it from every 
state, we hear it from all classes, we hear it from women of large means 
and from women of little means. They who are trying to play the game, 
who are conscientious, are frustrated in their efforts at conservation by 
the selfishness of men who will not play the game with them because 
they know that they can find some public eating places in which the 
policy of conservation is violated. In this negative manner, by making 
it impossible for selfish men to break the rules which their wives are 
trying to follow, you can contribute enormously to the effectiveness of a 
food conservation program. 

Go to England today and compare it with England of a year or two 
years ago, and what is the striking conviction that comes home? That 
the intensity with which England is fighting this war is due as much as 
anything else to the example, force, and ability of her upper classes, so- 
called, the classes of means. They deny themselves the most, they take 
the heaviest burdens, they reduce the most from their accustomed stand- 
ards; and the poorer classes, the working classes, and the union labor 
groups of England have become convinced that the British classes of 
wealth and station are absolutely in this war to the end, are willing to 
risk everything and will stand every deprivation that they ask every- 
body else to stand, and more. And when this spirit comes over this 
country, we shall all have a much greater intensity in the carrying on of 
the war than we at present possess. 

I wish every one in this room could go to the battlefield of France, 
not merely to see what a front looks like, with its trenches, its men, and 
all of the paraphernalia, but to get the reaction of the French common 
soldier toward the American visitor. These men who have faced death 
for three and a half years for you and me, fighting a battle in which we 
have just as much at stake as they have — these men salute an American 
civilian with an expression of respect, reverence, and trust that is abso- 
lutely past description by human words. 



1918] OURSELVES OR THE ALLIES 263 

A\Tiy do these French soldiers who have struggled with death for 
freedom for three and a half years salute the American? Because in 
that salute they express their trust in America in the war; they express 
the trust they have that we shall assume our share of this struggle 
from everj' point of view, not merely by governmental participation 
in a militar}- program, but also by the reconstruction of our entire lives 
from the point of view of saving and sacrifice, by supporting them in the 
same sense that the American boy who fights beside them supports them, 
and is supported by them. 

We must be worthy of this trust. When a French soldier salutes an 
American civilian, knowing that that American is merely one typical of 
a himdred and five million, he expects us to do our duty as an ally, and 
he knows we will do it. The people of France know that the American 
people are being asked to undergo food conservation and they know that 
the man who asks them to undergo it is the man best qualified in the 
world to lay out a program — the Hoover of Northern France and Bel- 
gium and now the Hoover of the United States. 



From the National Council of French Women to the Women of France 

"These last months of the war will be the hardest. French women 
know it and bravely they will go through the necessary ordeal. They 
will accept all restrictions in order to obtain victory which will allow 
their children to know the joy of life and beneficent peace. 

"Each of us must simphfy her mode of hfe. Deprive yourselves, 
economize, and you are working for your country. Let those whose 
material well-being is assured set an example to render the hard priva- 
tions of the hour less grievous to their sisters. 

"Workmen, like us, you are weeping for dear ones; like us you hate 
war. It is in order to render war impossible henceforth, that we must 
hold out to the bitter end." 



264 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [June 

WHAT RETAIL MERCHANTS ARE DOING FOR FOOD 
CONSERVATION 

SARA MERRILL 
United Slates Food Administration 

The retail merchant stands at the contact point between the producer 
and the consumer. Upon him falls the responsibility of dealing directly 
with the housekeeping woman, who is, after all, in charge of the nation's 
commissary. It is estimated that fifteen out of every sixteen women in 
the United States are "free women," that is, they manage their house- 
holds without depending upon the help of servants. They plan their 
meals, buy their food, and prepare it with their own hands. The retail 
merchant influences these women in a thousand ways — their very 
tastes and habits are the result of the merchandise he offers them. 

Things to eat and things to wear are introduced to the American home 
by the way of Main Street and the stores that dwell thereon. Before 
the war, the merchant called this educational work "good business." 
The Food Administration recognizes the selling machinery of business 
as a valuable educational force, which can adapt itself to helping the 
Government without any trouble at all. 

The American housekeeper does not "take orders." She gives loyal 
service because she has been trained in a free and democratic country 
instead of being educated imder the military discipline of an autocracy. 
If she resents being asked to make corn muflins when her family prefers 
hot biscuit, it is because she does not understand that wheat is one of 
the deciding factors of the war, and that she, personally, must readjust 
her cooking habits so that she may release her share of grain for the 
people at the front. She goes to market with a basket on her arm and 
straightway the war comes home to her as something especially invented 
by the grocer to annoy her. She bumps into the "fifty-fifty" rule which 
obliges the grocer to sell equal weight of other cereals with flour, or the 
war prices make her feel that she is suffering a personal injustice. When 
the grocer is able to explain matters satisfactorily, she changes her mind, 
and cornmeal and the other wheat substitute cereals begin to look like 
sacrificial offerings which she can lay on the altar of democracy, via her 
dining table, with a thankful heart. 

The only way to manage a woman in this free country is by stirring 
her imagination. Perhaps it seems odd that this duty which was once 
the exclusive duty of the priests of ancient gods, should now be vested 



1918] WHAT RETAIL MERCHANTS ARE DOING 265 

in the corner grocer or the hardware merchant, or the dry goods store. 
But there they are at the contact point, and they are ready to deliver 
any message for the Government. Playing on the imaginations of their 
customers is an old familiar game. 

Their display windows are used to visuaHze in an unforgetable way the 
grim stOT}' of starvation and famine which threatens Europe, if the United 
States fails to send the wheat and other food staples to sustain the people 
of the war zone. The window display man dramatizes the part played by 
cornmeal, oatmeal, and other cereals, the food for patriots at home, the 
woman's weapon against the devastation of the Hun. Cleverly the 
merchant advertises the heroic sacrifices of the women of France and 
England and Italy, the cry of hungry httle children in Belgium, and the 
horror of Poland and Roumania. 

Almost every advertisement in the local newspaper carries some re- 
minder of the war, sandwiched in with the price of perambulators. Every 
leaflet and circular says glaringly, "Food Will Win The War." In a 
hundred ways, the selling psychology is utilized to play on the American 
heartstrings, and the American love of freedom and fair play. Finally, 
the light breaks through and the American housekeeper knows that the 
world is her world and the freedom for which men fight is her freedom. 
If the appeal is made to her for wheat, she gives it, and her family does 
not suffer, because she discovers a dozen other ways to make biscuits 
and muffins and pies and cakes, using flours not needed for export. 

The merchants are well organized in this patriotic service. The 
Federal Food Administrator in each state has chosen a leading merchant 
as a member of his staff. In turn, the merchant representative chooses 
deputies in each cit}' and county, so that, when bulletins or printed matter 
are received from the Food Administration at Washington, they can be 
handed along the hne to the individual merchant in the big city and 
at the cross roads store. Suggestions are furnished monthly for food 
conservation window displays, newspaper advertising, direct advertis- 
ing, such as leaflets and circulars, demonstration booths, outdoor signs, 
auditorium meetings, and the education of store employees, making, 
in all, seven avenues that the merchant has thrown open for the 
use of the Food Administration. His own time and money he gives 
cheerfully, without any expectation of reimbursement or profit. He 
wants to win the war, and nothing else matters much to him. Under 
these conditions, the citizen must be both deaf and blind to escape the 
knowledge of his duty to save food when the merchants are enlisted to 
"spread the gospel." 



266 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS QunC 

THE WORK OF THE LIBRARY IN FOOD CONSERVATION 

EDITH GUERETER 

United States Food Administration 

Libraries have for so many years been accustomed to catalogue and 
file and arrange their affairs according to certain well defined systems 
that no additional organization of complicated mechanism was neces- 
sary to start them in Food Conservation work. 

One hbrarian on the staff of the Federal Food Administrator in each 
state acts as Library Director. These directors have accepted this 
responsibility as a patriotic duty; and in addition to their regular work 
have lined up the libraries of their states in the Food Conservation army. 

The Food Administration issues from Washington each month an 
official bulletin called "Food News Notes" that goes to every librarian 
in the country and keeps them informed as to the points that are being 
stressed in connection with food, and shows them how they can help. 

One of the most important services the libraries are rendering is 
keeping an up-to-date Food Bulletin Board, reaching the people with the 
food announcements they need. The information on this board must 
be timely, brief, and adapted to the locality. 

All librarians are earnestly requested to call attention to articles on 
food appearing in current periodicals, and to have on hand all pam- 
phlets bearing on pertinent food problems. Food Administration bul- 
letins that are out of print may be consulted in the library. 

The card catalogue of recipes has proved a never failing source of 
interest and in many instances local recipes have been produced which 
have attained great popularity. Almost universally, whenever a library 
has an auditorium, food talks or food story hours have been given and 
in some instances food demonstrations have been conducted. 

Food Conservation exhibits have been arranged in hundreds of 
libraries and have been placed in food shows under their auspices. 

Through the cooperation of the schools, posters and food compositions 
have been obtained for display and valuable maps have been reproduced. 

Before 1919 it is hoped that every library will have a card inde.x of 
all agencies in the town doing war service work. 

A few quotations from recent reports and letters will give some idea 
of how this work is progressing. 



1918] WORK OF LIBRARY IN FOOD CONSERVATION 267 

New Mexico. "I've been talking — and I'm a plain little backseat person — 
talking in schools, at Red Cross rooms, at evening meetings, to groups of 
from twenty to over two hundred! I've been way out thirty miles from a 
railroad stirring them up to want information. Now I'm on my way back 
and I'm goijig to send my posters and pamphlets out into those far away cor- 
ners of the state where the weekly trip to church, maybe, or the once in a 
long while to the "store" is the only outing the house mother has — and the 
news the children bring from school is the topic of the day's conversation. 

Wyoming. "In connection with my trip about the state, I visited and per- 
sonally interviewed practically every librarian in the state. I had a chance to 
observe personally the efforts the librarians are making in regard to library 
publicity for food conservation. I took two pictures of unique libraries in 
cabins, which will add to your list. I am also collecting essays and newspaper 
clippings and will send them to you at an early date, together with the results 
of the questionnaires which my faithful clerk sent out during my absence." 

Michigan. "About fifty food posters made by the boys and girls of the 
Escanaba public schools have been e.xhibited in the Public Library recently. 
The ideas are remarkably good, and are very effectively carried out. Most of 
the posters are composite work — that is, the children in one room worked 
together on one poster. In most cases the children cut the letters for the 
posters. In connection with this display, the library had an exhibit of war 
cookery with the recipes. Women of the city who had used any war recipes 
successfully, were requested to send the recipes to the library with a sample 
of the result. The recipes are to be card-inde.xed and filed for reference. 
The library has distributed hundreds of leailets containing war recipes and 
suggesti%'e menus." 

Massachusetts. "\ number of organizations, educational, municipal, and 
political, are responsible for the food exhibits of the Boston Public Library. 

"Publicity is obtained through the newspapers and through the issue of a 
small leaflet with each book sent out from the delivery section of the library. 

'In the e.idiibit room there is always in attendance a salaried woman tramed 
in home economics. A leaflet furnishes a list of substitute foods with the 
price at which they may be bought at the time in Boston, and, in a general 
way, where they may be procured. 

"There was very little advertisement of the exhibit at first, still the average 
daily attendance from January 29 to March 14 was, by actual count, 676." 

The cooperation of the librarians has been nothing short of mar- 
velous, and undreamed-of possibilities for popularizing and spreading 
reliable information have been opened. 



268 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [jUHC 

"MY FRIEND IN FRANCE TELLS ME " 

One of the handiest ways to start an argument these days is to mention 
the French food supply. Some loyal conversationist says that he — or 
she — can not bear to look at wheat because of the terrible need in 
France, which has given more in lands, home, man-power and general 
sacrifice than any other nation, in this war for a free world. 

Then the knowing one pipes up: "But you are misinformed. There 
is no food shortage in France. I get a letter almost every week from a 
friend in France, and he says that wherever he went, whether in Paris or 
in the small towns, there was always plenty of food — he says, in fact, 
that he never had such meals in his hfe." 

Then the argument begins, and because there are only official state- 
ments to combat the one who has the actual eye-witness letters, the 
victory apparently hes on that side, and the inevitable inference is that 
there is something queer about the request that is being made of us to 
"send food across the sea." 

There are so many of these "friends-in-France" people that what they 
say really counts, especially as they are relating apparent facts with 
perfect sincerity. So it is a good thing to Hne up the two sides of the 
question and strike a balance. 

France never did produce all the wheat she used. In 1914 her pro- 
duction was about 82 per cent of the normal consumption. In 1917 
the production was but 45 per cent of the normal production (and this, 
remember, never was enough for her consumption). 

After deducting the amount necessary for seed, it is estimated that 
the 1917 production will be one-third France's needs. 

The next salient fact is that France's normal needs have been figured 
on a different basis from ours. Food never has been wasted in frugal 
France. Consequently, her normal food consumption always has been 
very close to her actual food necessities. Whereas we in the United 
States have always been so lavish with food that we could easily cut our 
normal consumption in two and still actually eat as much as ever — by 
the aid of such adjuncts as careful management, war gardens, and the 
like. But the French people cannot increase supplies by war gardens, 
for most of them already grew their own garden supplies. 

The next fact to consider is that England has been lending France 
large amounts of food, and nobody disputes the fact that England is 
underfed. Yet neither would any thoughtful person imply that England 



1918] MY FRIEND IN FRANCE TELLS ME 269 

would be heedless enough to lend food at this time to a nation whose 
need was less than her own. 

Then add this to the list: France, last year, kept her food supply 
(production plus exports) up to about 85 per cent of normal. This 
year it has fallen to between 60 and 70 per cent. The shortage is, of 
course, uneven, and much greater in some commodities than in others. 
Of milk, for instance, there is only one-third the normal supply. 

Perhaps most significant of all is the fact that the ration of the French 
soldiers has twice been cut. We all know that the soldier's ration is 
never lowered until the danger at home from food shortage far out- 
weighs the damage the same lack can do at the front. 

Now these are actual facts. There is no guesswork about them. In 
the face of them we know that France is far below her normal food 
supply, and below a normal infinitely closer to her actual necessities 
than our normal ever has been. So it must be true that there is some 
explanation of those letters from "my friend in France." 

Perhaps one single instance may throw hght on all of them. Among 
the stories that come over, there is frequent mention of meat — they 
had three, or even four meat courses at the hotel, or something of that 
sort. And it is made the basis of many a letter and many a comment 
that "France really has loads of food after all." 

The fact about the meat situation is that the glut of meat indicated 
an actual shortage — a shortage of fodder. There was not enough to 
feed the cattle; so they killed them and ate them, instead of letting them 
waste away. As they have Uttle in the way of cold storage facilities, 
the meat could not be held over, and this created a temporary glut on 
the market. The situation was quite comparable to the present situa- 
tion here, when the meatless days were temporarily discontinued be- 
cause lack of transportation caused meat to pile up at seaboard till it 
became a conservation measure to eat it rather than store it up. But 
now France is on a ration of a pound of meat a week, and this includes 
horse flesh. 

Some of us may wonder why we, who are the great food proprietors 
pf the world today, are asked to conserve, at different times, on wheat, 
meat, fats, and sugar, while France which we are practically feeding, 
has only been rationed in wheat, meat, and sugar. 

Well, meat includes a large amount of fat, so rationing on meat means, 
to a large extent, rationing on fat, too. As for dairy fats, when a nation's 
milk supply is one- third normal, it is beside the mark to ration on those, 
for the complete lack of them provides an automatic rationing. 



270 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [June 

Wheat flour is being milled at 90 per cent in France. We, in the United 
States, have gone up to 74 per cent, which is considered by our experts 
the limit for safety. And that heavy, rough 90 per cent flour is being 
mixed with substitutes to an even greater extent than we are asked to 
mix our fine white flour. Not even the most earnest writers of the 
"plenty-of-food-in-France" letters claim that this bread is palatable. 
This is a far more serious affair for France than it would be for us, as 
bread has always formed 52 per cent of the French diet, while 39 per 
cent is the maximum with us. As for sugar, months ago France was 
rationed ItV pounds per month per person. 

Those facts show conclusively that wheat, meat, milk (and con- 
sequently dairy products), and sugar have been hard hit. But France 
still has one thing that gives her an advantage over all the world, and 
that is the French cook — not necessarily the great French chef, — -but 
just the everyday housewife or small bake-shop cook. These can, 
literally, produce a feast on what we throw away ; and as they have been 
accustomed for generations to make the most of everything, they have 
the advantage of not having to experiment with new methods of con- 
servation to anything like the extent necessary here or in England. 
For instance, we are now being advised to find a use for the outside 
leaves of lettuce. But the French housewife always has used all the 
lettuce leaves, only she has a system superior to ours. She does not 
lop off whole heads of lettuce, as we do; but when it begins to mature 
she picks off the larger leaves before they become coarse and broken. 
And as the rest develops, the leaves are plucked, this method making 
the whole plant go much farther than it would with us. Another in- 
stance of how things are done is shown in the matter of confectionery 
of which the French have always been very fond. Away went the sugar 
tupply quite early in the game, but the family confectionery remained. 
How? The housewife took numberless small fruits such as grapes, pears, 
and especially a small and very sweet French plum, and simmered them, 
all together without sugar very, very, slowly, till a sweet paste remained 
which was made the basis of confectionery. 

That sort of frugahty, and the French cook, will guarantee delectable 
meals in France (except as far as bread goes) , until the meals themselves 
are reduced to the vanishing point. 

But there are still one or two points to be considered in the matter of 
those letters from France. One is the fact that they are pretty sure to 
be from the portions of Northern France where the greatest war activi- 



1918] MY FRIEND IN FRANCE TELLS ME 271 

ties are going on, and where soldiers, officers, and civilian workers, 
French and foreign, are gathered. That means that the most im- 
mediate food demands as well as the most money are gathered there, 
and that what one sees there cannot be taken as indicative of the general 
situation. Unrationed food naturally flows to the best markets, which 
means the places where the most insistent demands and the highest 
bids are made for luxuries. In addition to this it is axiomatic that 
wherever a nation's soldiers are gathered, there will be the best of its 
food. 

And now the last point, and here we reach what has been more re- 
sponsible than anything else for the "plenty-of-food" letters. This is 
the volatile French temperament, in which hospitality and pride figure 
so largely, and produce a curious result when exhibited against the back- 
ground of today's events. The Frenchman adores his land and gladly 
dies for it. He knows that the Hun menace is no more serious than the 
"hun-ger" menace. Yet he cannot forbear making the dashing French 
"gesture" in the eyes of the world — the result of his behef that the 
most admirable man is he who can not merely refrain from outcry over 
a death wound but who can sing a gay little song, even though the end 
is hastened thereby. It is the French spirit, and the world would be 
sad without it, even though it was one of the contributing causes that 
made France delay anything like general rationing as long as possible, 
and that makes her at times unduly optimistic regarding the food 
situation. 

Anyone who is inclined to complain of this because it is ourselves who 
must make up the food deficit, might better acknowledge it as our 
opportunity partly to repay France because, for nearly four years, she 
has, with her allies, held the breach against our now avowed foe, and will 
continue to do so while we are completing our preparations. 

France is not starring — thanks to her great resourcefulness and to our 
honor. France must not starve — must not even be weakened by 
hunger — as long as any measure of sacrifice on our parts can prevent it. 

Vive la France! is not merely the slogan of a patriotic race. It is the 
world's cry of love for art and beauty. And we are wilUng to pay 
that debt of love by lifting from France's shoulders the brunt of the food 
burden at least. 



272 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [JunC 

A STUDY OF YEAST BREAD WITH SUBSTITUTE FLOURS^ 

ELIZABETH SPRAGUE 
University of Kansas and United States Food Administration 

The first problem undertaken in the experimental laboratory was 
the use of the wheat flour substitutes in yeast bread. A preliminary 
study at the University of Kansas, published in The American Food 
Journal, December 1917, seemed to indicate that while breads contain- 
ing 33| per cent of substitute were possible with some flours, only 25 
per cent was advisable in general if the quahty of the bread as regards 
texture and lightness was to be kept at all like normal bread. 

The first experiments were designed to check these results. Plates 
I, II, and III show the effects of increased proportions of substitutes and 
in the main confirm the results previously obtained at the University 
of Kansas. However, in general, the breads with the larger percentages, 
33^ and 40 per cent, made in this laboratory, were usually better in qual- 
ity than those previously made and shown in the article mentioned, 
perhaps due to increase in skill acquired through extended experience. 

The results reported in this paper show: (1) the proportions which 
have been used to produce breads of good, normal quahty; (2) faults 
which may occur and some tentative explanations as to their cause. 

Throughout the experiments, it has been the aim to discover simple 
principles and state these clearly with the hope that the conventional 
recipes may be to some extent replaced. 

Basis for Proportions. The relation between the formulae for the 
different breads is more easily understood if all are based on a common 
unit. Type recipes for bread are sometimes given in amounts to make 
loaves of standard weight, the amount of liquid indicating the size of the 
loaf. For example: (1) | cup liquid, yields a loaf weighing approxi- 
mately 16 ounces; (2) 1 cup Hquid, yields a loaf weighing approximately 
20 ounces; (3) 1| cup liquid, yields a loaf weighing approximately 24 
ounces; varying with amounts of fat, sugar, salt, and yeast; with loss in 
mixing, in kneading, and in baking. 

We have used the 1 pound loaf as the experimental loaf and the fol- 
lowing tj'pe recipes represent proportions for breads containing different 
amounts of substitutes. 

' The experimental work recorded here was carried out by Harriet Edgeworth and Ethel 
Loflin. Similar work is at present in progress in the same laboratory under the direction 
of the Office of Home Economics of the United States Department of Agriculture. 



1918] YEAST BREAD WITH SUBSTITUTE FLOURS 273 

Per cent of Substitute. In accordance with the rules of the Food Ad- 
ministration, the per cent of substitute is figured in terms of the weight 
of the total dry flours. When potato is used only one-fourth of its weight 
can be counted as dr>- substitute because of its large water content. 
The latter must be taken into account also in the liquid required to make 
the dough. 

Materials. Liquid: Milk was used in all cases. Flour: Wheat flour 
was the same throughout the experiments — 95 per cent milling of a 74 
per cent extraction. Substitute flours were obtained on the local 
market and in several different lots. There was sometimes an obvious 
difference in quality, such as in the fineness of barley flours but these 
differences did not seem to affect the results when equal weights of the 
different flours were used. Sirup was used instead of sugar to conform 
to Food Administration requests. Yeast: For convenience in laboratory 
work, compressed yeast only was used. This was obtained from a 
nearby market and no doubt varied according to market conditions. 

All materials were carefully weighed. Methods of manipulation 
were uniform and temperatures of both rising and baking were constant . 
It is of interest to note that the investigators through extensive pre- 
liminary experiments had learned to produce practically exact checks 
on each other's work in duphcate experiments, so that the personal 
factor was almost entirely eliminated. 

Constants and Variables. The same amounts of yeast, salt, syrup, and 
fat have been used in each case. The amounts of fat and sugar are such 
as conform to the regulations of the Baking Division of the Food Ad- 
ministration. The liquid is constant except when potato is used, allow- 
ance being made for the water content of the latter. The total weight 
of the wheat flour and substitute was sometimes constant and some- 
times variable; their relative proportion varies with the changing per- 
centages of the substitutes. 

The measures vary with the percentages and kinds of flours used. 

The variations in proportions due to the use of potato are shown later. 

Sponge: The milk was scalded and reduced to the proper temperature. 
Three variations were made in mixing: (a) sponge using wheat flour 
only; (b) sponge using substitute only; (c) sponge using mixed flours. 
The modification in (b) was suggested on the theory that all the 
strength of the wheat gluten was needed to carry the substitute and 
that it should not be subjected to the softening influence of the yeast. 



274 



THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECO^fOMICS 



[June 



Good breads have been secured by all methods. When the products 
were poor there were other factors involved which were of greater im- 
portance. We have therefore not been able to form an opinion as to the 
relative merits of the three processes. For convenience mLxing the 
wheat flour and substitute is recommended. 



Amounts of materials used in making one pound loaves (appioximately) 
when the weight of the flour was constant 

Constants 



i cup liquid (mUk) 

J-1 cake yeast 

1 teaspoon salt 

1 tablespoon sirup 

1 teaspoon fat 

Wheat flour and substitute 





WEIGHT 




grams 






ounces 


183 






6i 


&-12 








4 






i 


20 






f 



Varying proportions of wh^al flour substitutes in the same total weight 
Twenty-five per cent substitution by weight requires 7j ounces wheat flour to 2\ ounces 
substitute. 

Thirty-three per cent substitution by weight requires 6| ounces wheat flour to 3J ounces 
substitute. 

Forty per cent substitution by weight requires 6 ounces wheat flour to 4 ounces substitute. 
Approximate equivalents in measures 



Wheat flour, 

And any one of the following 

Barley flour 

Buckwheat flour 

Cornflour 

Commeal (coarse) 

Oats, ground rolled 

Rice flour 



cups 

H+ 



1+ 



cups 

11+ 



li+ 



l- 



cups 

li 

U 

i+ 
1 

1+ 
li 

i+ 



Dough. Different amounts of flour were used in making the doughs- 
(a) Constant weight for each flour substitute used gave doughs of differing 
stiffness, (b) Varying weights of flour were used to make doughs as nearly 
like a wheat flour dough as practical tests could determine, (c) Varying 
'veights of flour were used to make doughs of a so-called proper consist- 



19181 



YEAST BREAD WITH SUBSTITUTE FLOURS 



275 



ency which was thought might be right for each substitute. The con- 
stant weight used in (a) was based on the amount of wheat flour alone 
which would be necessary (theoretically) to make a dough of proper con- 
sistency; that is, f cup of milk (183 grams or 6| ounces) would require 
2\ cups wheat flour (284 grams or 10 ounces). The amounts of flour 
actually used when made according to (a), (b), and (c) were as follows: 

Without potato 



Barley 

Buckwheat 

Cornflour 

Commeal 

Oats, ground rolled 
Rice 



grams 


grams 


gram! 


284 


232 


251 


284 


284 


291 


284 


259 


278 


284 


253 


277 


284 


246 


250 


284 


256 


284 





With potato 








(A) 


(B) 




grams 
303 

303 
303 
303 
303 
303 


grams 

281 




306 




306 




281 




256 


Rice 


306 



With the constant weight of flour used in (A) buckwheat, cornmeal, 
and cornflour were "sticky" doughs — that is, they could be kneaded but 
would stick to the board and hands. They required deft handling. 
Barley, rice, and oat were stiffer doughs, and barley and oat became 
decidedly stiffer on standing. The oat and coriuneal doughs felt gran- 
ular, whereas the buckwheat and to some extent the rice were soft, 
velvety, and rather elastic. The rice flour dough was most like a 
wheat dough. 

The variations in (b) and in (c) occurred when doughs were made 
according to judgment either as to wheat flour consistency or to so-called 
proper consistency. When a constant amount of flours was used, as in 
(a), uniform loaves of good texture were obtained. When flours were 
varied according to judgment, as in (b) and in (c), the loaves frequently 
varied greatly in volume, and texture. 



276 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [June 

It will be noted that in the series without potato four of the cases in 
(c) were ahnost the same as (a) ; and in the series with potato three of 
the cases were practically the same as (a). This shows that when 
judgment was relied on for a standard consistency of dough, the amount 
of flour used in a number of cases was practically the same as that used 
where the amount of flour was kept constant. 

Risings. As before stated, a sponge was invariably used, with an 
hour allowed for the process. The dough was sometimes formed into 
the loaf after having doubled in bulk and sometimes cut down after it 
had once doubled and was again allowed to double its bulk. The loaf 
was allowed to fully double its bulk in most cases because it had been 
noticed that substitute breads do not rise in the oven. The total 
number of risings therefore was in some cases three and in others four. 
The evidence is fairly conclusive that better results are obtained by 
cutting down the dough at least once, giving a total of four risings in- 
cluding the sponge. This agrees with previous experiments with wheat 
flour and is a common practice with the commercial baker. Cutting 
down seems to give a lighter loaf, a finer and more uniform grain and a 
better texture. 

Baking. The loaves do not rise in the oven even if a low temperature 
is used at first. They tend to fall if the temperature is not high enough 
to set the loaf in the first fifteen or twenty minutes. The best oven 
temperature seemed to be 205°C. (400°F.) for this first period and then 
shghtly reduced to 195°C. (380°F.). A pound loaf required forty-five 
minutes for b'aking. Wheat flour loaves of similar size and shape were 
baked in thirty minutes. Great care is necessary in handling the light 
loaves. A faulty crack in the crust may result in the escape of gas with 
visible falling during baking. This is accentuated if the loaf is moved 
during baking. 

THE USE OF POTATOES WITH WHEAT FLOUR SUBSTITUTES 

The improvement in quality of yeast bread when mashed potato or 
even potato water is used has long been known practically and has been 
proved experimentally. Since these substitute breads were somewhat 
dry and differed in texture from the wheat flour breads, the proportions 
were modified to permit the use of mashed potatoes. WTien potatoes 
alone were used as the substitute not even as large an amount as 20 per 
cent (on the 4: 1 basis) was successful in the experiments tried. If more 
was used the potato taste was pronounced and the texture even less 



1918] 



YEAST BREAD WITH SUBSTITUTE FLOURS 



277 



desirable. In the attempt to secure the good effects of the potato and to 
avoid the bad results, it was decided to Hmit the proportion of the potato 
to one-fourth (on the dry basis 4:1) the weight of the total substitute. 
That is, in a 40 per cent bread containing 10 ounces of flour, 4 ounces of 
this would be substitute. Of this substitute 1 ounce is the dry matter 
in 4 ounces (| cup) of mashed potato. No experiments have been 
carried out to show whether this proportion is the optimum but it is 
at least a good workable one. 

Variation in Liquid. Because of the liquid in the mashed potato 
amounting to three-fourths of its weight it was necessary to reduce the 
amount of liquid added. This is illustrated below: 

Proporlions oj materials used to produce bread containing 40 per cent subslilutcs, 'ivilh atul 
■without potato 

b. With potato 
I cup (95 cc.) liquid 
6 ounces wheat flour 

3 ounces substitute flour 

4 ounces potato (1 ounce or \ total weight 
counted as part of the substitute) 



a. Without potato 
i cup (178 cc.) liquid 
6 ounces wheat flour 
4 ounces substitute flour 



Approximate amounts by measure 





40 PER CENT 

BREAD WTTHOUI 

POTATO 




40 PER CENT 

WITH POTATO 
10 PER CENT 

POTATO 
30 PER CENT 

FLOUR 
SUBSTITUTE 




cups 

i+ 
1 

1+ 

M 

i+ 




cupt 

i 




Potato 


And any of the following: 

Barley 


And any of the following: 
Barley 










i 


Commeal (coarse) 


Commeal (coarse) 

Oats, ground rolled 


1 




i 







The fat, sugar or syrup, salt, and yeast are constant. 

Counting f the weight of the potato as liquid makes the total hquid 
in the potato bread approximately the same as that in the bread with- 
out potato — 3 ounces or 85 grams -|- 95 grams =180 grams instead of 
178 grams. The measures of the weights used above will vary according 
to the substitute used. 



278 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [June 

Variation of Method. Because of the stimulating eiTect of the potato 
water (liquid in which the potatoes have been cooked) it is desirable 
to use this as all or part of the liquid. If milk only is used the mashed 
potato should be put in the sponge. The addition of all of the potato 
at this point may make such a stifT mixture that only one or two 
tablespoons of flour can be added. Even then the mixture is so stiff 
that the question arises as to whether the best conditions for growth 
have been provided. We have no data on this point. 

The only variations made in the method are those which were neces- 
sary to incorporate the new material. Dough containing potato softens 
considerably during rising and more of the flour should be reserved for 
the kneading process. 

The effect of adding the potato is very plainly shown in the accompany- 
ing plates. 

The 40 per cent bread with potato (Plate IV) is of much better and 
more uniform quality than 40 per cent without potato (Plate III); 
SO per cent and even 60 per cent with potato (Plate IV) are much 
better than the 40 per cent without. The faults observed in the 
higher per cent breads have been corrected by conforming to the principles 
developed in this paper but the photographs have not yet been taken 
of the perfect loaves. 

Conclusions. It has been shown that the weights of the other ingre- 
dients being constant, the total weight of the wheat flour and of each 
substitute may also be constant. However, later work indicates that it 
may be more desirable to modify this rule. The six substitutes used 
seem to fall into two groups. One group (barley, oats, and rice flour) 
made stiffer doughs than the second group (buckwheat, corn flour, and 
corn meal) , therefore less total flour is required to make good breads for 
the first group than for the second. That is, on the same basis of pro- 
portions, 10 ounces of flour will make a good bread of the substitutes in 
the first group, while 10| ounces is a safer amount of total flour for those 
in the second group. For the inexperienced, using a constant weight of 
10| ounces of total flour whatever the kind or percentage of substitute 
used is probably the safest procedure. 

Some of the results indicate that such faults as cracks, large holes, and 
poor texture may be due to the number and length of the times of rising 
as well as to the consistency of the dough. The writer is convinced that 
the quality is materially improved by the use of at least four rising periods : 
(a) sponge, sixty minutes; (b) dough, first rising; (c) dough, second 




I. Yeast Breads 
25 per cent substitute; 75 per cent wheat tlour 




'ornflour Rice (lour Rolled Oats Cornmeai 

Ground 

II. Yeast Breads 
S3i per cent substitute; 66| per cent wlieat flour 




Rolled Oats 
Ground 



Cornflour Buckwheat Rice flour Cornmeai 

in. Yeast Bre.\ds 
40 per cent substitute; 60 per cent wheat flour 



Barley tliur 



Bu^kn hcMt. llarlcy Corntlour Rice flour Rolled Oats Cornmeal 

Ground 
TV. Yeast Breads 
31 per cent substitute; 9 per cent potato (1 :4 basis); 60 per cent wheat tlour 




Buckwheat Coinllour Rice flour Rolled Oats Cornmeal Barley floi 

Ground 

\". Yeast Breads 
38 per cent substitute; 12 per cent potato (1 A basis); 60 per cent wheat llour 





Buckwheat Cornflour 



\'I. Yeast Breads 
48 per cent substitute; 12 per cent potato (1:4 basis); 40 per cent wheat flour 



1918] YEAST BREAD WITH SUBSTITUTE FLOURS 279 

rising; (d) loaf. A discussion of these points is beyond the scope of this 
paper. 

It has been interesting to note that the quality of the yeast was a very 
important factor. Some of our poor results seemed to be due to a poor 
quality of yeast A good vigorous yeast seems essential to success in 
making breads of the wheat flour substitutes, since gas is visibly lost 
during the process. The yeast used in these experiments was obtained 
from a local market and represents the k'nd of variation in quality with 
which the housekeeper must contend. This quality is probably affected 
more by the length of time and the conditions under which it has been 
kept in the store than by any other factor. 

Emphasis must be laid also on the method of baking since it seems 
important that the crust should be formed within fifteen minutes after 
it is put in the oven. A longer time of baking must be allowed. 

These experiments have been carried on under great pressure and 
with many and varied interruptions. The conclusions are not as 
definite as we should like but many important principles seem to have 
been shown. It is hoped that this preliminary report may be of value 
to the trained worker and may help to explain the difficulties and the 
poor results which are reported from so many parts of the country. 
When trained people working imder carefully controlled conditions 
find such dilTerent products resulting it is not surprising that the un- 
trained worker not knownng even the possibility of variation in conditions 
should be troubled by inexplainable results. 

It has been shown that a difference of a few grams in the amount of 
flour used may cause a crack at the top of the loaf. The weight of the 
flour measured in a cup may ^"ary greatly and such a difference as the 
above could occur, when measures are used, with no suspicion of the 
variation. Experience gained through the trial and error method may 
make it possible to judge the consistency of the dough correctly but that 
may take much time and material, since the character of these doughs 
is so different from those with which we have been familiar. This 
offers one of the best examples of the advantage of using definite we'ghts 
and controlled conditions in food preparation. 



280 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [june 

THE OFFICE OF HOME ECONOMICS AND THE UNITED 
STATES FOOD ADMINISTRATION 

JEAN G. mA'^KINNON 

Office of Home Economics, United States Department of Agriculture 

Like many other Government Bureaus and Offices, the Office of Home 
Economics found its quarters too small for the emergency war work, and 
last fall began to plan for larger quarters. One phase of the work which 
had grown especially, was the small Experimental Kitchen, which the 
Office had estabhshed several years ago. Instead of the little room, 
which in normal times seemed entirely too small for the work, the 
Experimental Kitchen now occupies much better quarters in a two- 
story building across from the West Wing of the Agricultural Building. 
When the Food Administration felt the need of a kitchen for experimen- 
tal work, it was possible for the Office of Home Economics with its 
greatly increased working space, to offer to share its Kitchen. This new 
kitchen occupies two-thirds of the floor space of the first floor of this 
Branch of the Office of Home Economics and if the need continues will 
probably want to spread itself still further. At present the space is 50 
feet long and 18 feet wide and the Office of Home Economics and the 
United States Food Administration have equipped 25 feet of this with 
working equipment to accommodate four trained workers. 

The kitchen has many plans for experimental cookery work, but since 
February its entire attention has been devoted to wheat substitutes in 
yeast breads and quick doughs and batters. This work on substitutes 
was done independently by both the Food Administration and the Office 
of Home Economics, the Office of Home Economics always having the 
average housekeeper in mind, while the Food Administration considered 
the institutional as well as the home phase of the problem. The effort 
has always been to have the work very accurately done and repeated 
many times as a check. Well trained women have been at work in the 
kitchen and in order to insure as great accuracy as possible, this kitchen 
has been viewed as other war activities, and has not been open for general 
inspection. 

The results of the work in the kitchen have appeared in many forms. 
The popular cooperative leaflets known as the "Food Leaflets" give some 
of the material worked out in this kitchen by the Office of Home Eco- 
nomics. Many circulars and cards have been issued separately by the 



1918' HOME ECONOMICS AND THE FOOD ADMINISTRATION 281 

Food Administration and the Office of Home Economics, and whenever 
these publications consider the use of wheat substitutes, the work has 
been done in this kitchen. Recipe material for newspapers and maga- 
zines supphed by the Publicity Bureaus of both the Food Administration 
and the Department of Agriculture, has been prepared from the data of 
the Experimental Kitchen. There will undoubtedly be variations in 
results obtained by other Home Economics Laboratories as compared 
with the data of the Experimental Kitchen. Such variations have 
always been experienced wherever wheat flour was concerned, due 
partly to the difference in milling, and partly, perhaps, to lack of stand- 
ardization, and of course the same situation will arise with substitute 
flours. 

Another phase of the work of the Experimental Kitchen is shown in the 
use made of the other 25 feet, which has not been devoted to the Office 
of Home Economics and the Food Administration. This is a cooperative 
project between the Office of Home Economics and the Woman's Sec- 
tions of Extension North and West, and Extension South. It is equipped 
as a Demonstration Laboratory to accommodate sixteen workers and 
will afford the Extension Departments an opportunity to call in their 
special demonstrators from any section in the country and instruct them 
in the latest Food Conservation work. This cooperation, in one room, 
of the Extension Departments, Office of Home Economics, and Food 
Administration should be a most effective way of reaching the needs 
of the women of this country. The Office of Home Economics has 
always felt dependent on the Extension Offices for the distribution of 
their work and for inspiration and suggestions of work needed in the 
beld as seen bj' the field worker as she comes in contact with the people. 
Just as the Extension Departments are invaluable to the Office of Home 
Economics, they must be equally so to the Food Administration, especi- 
ally as they go out and spread the Food Administration messages. 

It has seemed especially fortunate that the enlarged Experimental 
Kitchen became a possibility at a time when greatly needed. When the 
war mergency is passed, it hopes to be able to contribute largely to 
cookery problems, but at present it is glad to do anything which will 
aid either the Food Administration or the Extension Department in 
reaching the people and in solving any of the problems of "war cookery ." 



282 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS Ijunc 

WHEATLESS CAKE AND SHORTCAKE 

From the Experimental Kitchen of the United States Food Administration 
and the Department of Agriculture 

"butter" cakes 

Different combinations may be made using this general rule: § cup fat, 
f cup sugar, 1 cup sirup, 3 eggs, f cup milk, 6 teaspoonfuls baking pow- 
der, 5 teaspoon salt, 10 ounces flour, with the addition of chocolate, 
(using less fat), spices, raisins, or nuts. One rule is given. 

Chocolate cake 

I cup fat Ij cup rice flour (5 ounces) 

I cup sugar (about 4 J ounces) Ij cups barley flour (5 ounces) 

1 cup syrup (about llj ounces) 6 teaspoons baking powder 

3 eggs 1 teaspoon cinnamon 

I cup milk 1 teaspoon vanilla 

1 teaspoon salt 2 squares chocolate 

Cream the fat, sugar and egg yolk. Add the sirup and mix well 
Add alternately the liquid, and the dry ingredients sifted together. 
Add flavoring and the chocolate melted with a small portion of the 
sirup. Fold in well beaten egg white. Bake about one hour starting 
in a moderate oven (350°F. or 177° C). After twenty minutes raise 
the temperature slightly (to 400° F. or 205° C). 

In place of the barley and rice flour If cups of buckwheat (8 ounces) 
and I cup of ground rolled oats (2 ounces) may be used; or 3| cups of 
barley flour (10 ounces); or 1 cup of rice flour (5 ounces) and 1 cup 
of buckwheat flour (5 ounces). 

SHORTCAKES WITHOUT WHEAT 
Rice Flour Shortcake Barley Shortcake 

2\ cups rice flour 4 cups barley flour 

6 teaspoons baking powder 6 teaspoons baking powder 

1 teaspoon salt 1 teaspoon salt 

1 tablespoon sugar 1 tablespoon sugar 

6 to 8 tablespoons fat 4 to 6 tablespoons fat 

1 cup liquid 1 cup liquid 

MLx the dry ingredients, cut in the fat and add liquid. For individual 
servings, place dough on slightly floured board, pat to f inch thickness 
and cut as for biscuit. For family sized portions, place dough in well- 
greased pan and pat to desired thickness. Bake in a hot oven. 



EDITORIAL 

Children's Food and the Food Administration. There seems to be 
a more or less general impression that the children of the nation must be 
defended from the rulings of the Food Administration. This was brought 
out at the meeting of the N. E. A. at Atlantic City, where from the public 
platform women were urged to violate such precepts, in the interest of 
the child's welfare, and in resolutions lately sent by certain medical 
associations to the Food Administration, protesting against its attitude. 

This is an entire misunderstanding of the Food Administration's 
standpoint. When it was said that "wheat is not today a food for strong 
men and women," it was expressly stated that it might be left for "in- 
valids and children." From the very beginning of Food Administration 
propaganda, it has been urged over and over again that every precaution 
be taken to feed the children wisely and well. No sacrifice of wholesome 
food for the children has ever been asked or suggested. The first home 
card said, "The children must have milk." "Do not limit the plain food 
of growing children." "Butter is essential for the growth and health of 
children." 

For the majority of children, unless the change is made too rapidly, 
there is no reason to suppose that the other cereals are not just as whole- 
some as wheat. Change from fine flours to coarse may be unwise. 
Any experiments with the diet of the young child should be made care- 
fully, with few changes at a time. But, if other cereals do not agree 
with it, there is no violation of any Food Administration ruling in giving 
wheat. 

The True Way to Stop the Use of Foodstuffs in Brewing. — There 
have been criticisms of the Food Administration because it has not pro- 
hibited the use of grain for brewing. Many people have even refused 
to cooperate in its conservation measures until this was done. 

The following statement from the Food Administrator answers these 
critics. 

As to the discussion over the suppression of brewing, I wish to say emphati- 
cally that from a strictly food conservation point of view I should like to see 
the use of foodstuffs suppressed in all drinks hard and soft. This is not, how- 
ever, the whole story. We stopped distilling a year ago. There is a long 
supply of whiskey, gin, and other 20 to 40 per cent distilled drinks in the 
country. We have reduced the consumption of foodstuffs in brewing by 30 

283 



284 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [June 

per cent and reduced the alcohol content of beer to 2.75 per cent. If we stop 
brewing the saloons of the country will still be open but confined practically 
to a whiskey and gin basis. Any true advocate of temperance and of national 
efficiency in these times will shirnk from this situation, for the national danger 
in it is greater than the use of some 4,000,000 bushels of grain monthly in the 
breweries. If the American people want prohibition it should prohibit by 
legislation to that end and not force the Food Administration to the responsi- 
bility for an orgy of drunkenness. It is difficult to get drunk on 2.75 per cent 
beer; it will be easy enough if we force a substitution of distilled drinks for it. 
It has not been found feasible to commandeer distilled spirits in the coun- 
try for re-distiUation into munitions alcohol, because of technical difficulties 
and the fact that commercial alcohol can be obtained not only abundantly but 
on a much cheaper basis than could be had through such commandeering and 
re-distillation of potable spirits. 

The Food Administration has gone as far as it can towards temperance 
without precipitating a worse situation. If the American people or Congress 
will stop the sale of distilled liquors, the Administration will find no difficulty 
in stopping brewing. 

What is Wheat? Many people do not yet understand that graham 
and "whole wheat" flour are wheat — partly perhaps because these were 
allowed as partial substitutes for flour in the 50-50 purchases. Some 
even see no fallacy in the school boy's "waving fields of macaroni that 
adorn the ItaKan landscape." Though by this time nearly every one 
must be free from tliis delusion, "what is wheat and what is not" still 
puzzles some; this statement from the Food Administration may not be 
out of place. 



IF YOU EAT — THESE — YOU EAT WHEAT IF YOU EAT — THESE — 

YOU EAT NO ^\'HEAT 

White Wheat Bread, from fJour refined from r> , , /-i , , • 

Fotatoes, Oatmeal, nee, 
the starchy center of the wheat kernel. 

TT'; ) TT'7 , o J i a 1 c notnmv, barley, tapioca, 

\\ hole \\ heat Bread, from nour made from ■ . ' f < 

the starchy center and some of the outer '^'"^ ^^^ P'^" <^^"^ ^«^^'^- 

brown layers (bran) of the wheat kernel. tute bread made from 

Graliam Bread and Crackers, from flour corn, oats,barley, or other 

containing all the kernel, including the bran, ^^i^eat substitutes; usu- 

Macaroni, Spaghetti, Noodles, from wheat ^^^ ^^^^ ^j^^ ^^^^^^ 

Wheat Breakfast Foods, sometimes not ad- '_ 

vertised as wheat products, made from the ^^^^ ™^^- instead of 

whole or part of the wheat kernel. yeast and often known 

Victory Breads, 75 per cent wheat. as "Quick Breads." 



BOOKS AND LITERATURE 



Any book or periodical mentioned in tliis department may be obtained through the 
Journal of Home Economics if the Journal price is listed. 



Food in War Time. By Graham LtJSK. 
Philadelphia and London: \V. B. Saun- 
ders Company, 1918, pp. 46. S0.50. 
By mail of the Journal, $0.55. 
.\ny book of Dr Lusk's will be eagerly 
accepted. This booklet of less than fifty 
pages is made up of three parts, the first 
enritled ".\ Balanced Diet," the second 
"Calories in Common Life," an I the third 
"Rules for SaNTng and Safety." Of these 
the first and last will appeal most to the 
general reader. The last two parts of the 
book were given as a paper at the meeting 
of the .Association of Agricultural Colleges 
and Experiment Stationsat Washington, Nov. 
1917. 

The "Balanced Diet" explains why a 
diet used by the southern Italian consisting 
of corn, greens, and oil, has proved "bal- 
anced," and the need for vitamines is clearly 
shown. The importance of milk and pota- 
toes in the diet is emphasized, and the need 
tor meat discounted. The figures quoted 
on page 19 from the British Commission 
showing why meat should be more e.xpensive 
than milk, and suggesting certain regulations 
that might increase the dairy business and 
so lower the price of milk at the e.xjjense of 
meat, are illuminating. 

The second section, "Calories in Common 
Life," will appeal to the teacher of dietetics 
as an available source of material on basal 
metabolism. In the last paragraph of the 
book Dr. Lusk wonders why educated 
people content themselves with so little 
knowledge of calories and the energy require- 
ment of the body. The average person will 
not wonder at them, however, when he is 
called upon to read sentences like the fol- 
lowing: "Phenomena of life are phenomena 



of motion. These are mantained at the 
expense of chemical energ>' liberated in the 
o.xidative breakdown of carbohydrate, fat 
and protein." But that this will be a source 
of information for the go-between who will 
try to put such material into popular form 
cannot be doubted. It is to be regretted 
that for them and for the dietetics teacher, 
Dr. Lusk has not given source references 
for such work as that of DuBois' method of 
measuring surface area, alluded to on page 
26. 

The "Rules for Saving and Safety" at the 
end of the book, make an e.^ccellcnt popular 
summary of the practical applications to be 
made from the rest, put definitely, and in 
language that will appeal to ever^-one. 
Mabel T. Wellman, 
Indiana University. 

Successful Canning and Preserving. By 
Ola Powell. Philadelphia: J. B. Lip- 
pincott Co., 1917, pp. 372. S2.00. By 
mail of the Journal, $2.15. 
The author of "Successful Canning and 
Preser\-ing" chose for the publication of her 
work the psychological moment when the 
nation was appealing to every loyal citizen 
for increased production and greater con- 
servation of food. 

This book is the outgrowth of much practi- 
cal experience in one of the most practical 
forms of teaching — that carried on through 
extension classes. It is the outgrowth, 
too, of experience with vegetables and fruits 
that extends further back than the canning 
period. Miss Powell's first work was in 
connection with the famous school gardens 
of Cleveland. She is now Assistant in 
Home Demonstration Work in the Office 
285 



286 



THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS 



[June 



of Extension Work, South, of the United 
States Department of Agriculture, and for 
several summers has taught canning in 
Peabody College. She cans well, and she 
cans artistically, so that her products appeal 
to the eye as well as the palate — an impor- 
tant point when they are to be made the 
means of earning money. What is even 
more important in the writer of a book — she 
knows how to tell other people how to do it 
all. The book which is well illustrated in 
color and also in black and white, contains 
chapters on preparation and equipment, 
the selection of fruits and vegetables for 
canning, canning in tin and in glass, and on 
that operation so mysterious to the uniniti- 
ated, known as processing; there are direc- 
tions for preserving; for making jellies, jams 
and marmalades; for pickling and for pre- 
serving meats. One of the most helpful 
chapters for the summer's work is that on 
drying. 

Suggestions are given for forming canning 
clubs and for teaching particularly by that 
delightful outdoor method that has been so 
well worked out in the South. 
The book will have a twofold usefulness. 
Housekeepers will find it helpful in their 
practical and patriotic labor of preserving 
the nation's precious supply of perishables, 
and teachers will learn from it the best 
methods of carr3dng the timely message 
out to the people. 

Caroline Hunt. 

Cooking and Sewing Outline. By Fay 
Morgan Rtroo and Francesca E. 
Kayser. Birmingham: Tennessee Coal, 
Iron, and Railroad Company 1917, pp. 
115. 

The Department of Social Science of the 
Tennessee Coal, Iron, and Railroad Com- 
pany has issued an outline of lessons in 
cooking and sewing which bears every indi- 
cation of having been worked out by ex- 
perience, and appears to be well adapted to 
the needs of children attending schools in 
the mining towns in which the companj' is 
interested. Complete outlines for the fifth, 
sixth, and seventh grades are presented, and 



practical problems for lessons in cooking, 
sewing, and housekeeping are concisely 
stated. 

CARjfiE Alberta Lyford, 
U. S. Bureau of Education. 

Wheatless and Meatless Menus and Recipes. 

By Alice Bradley, Miss Farmer's 

School of Cookery, Boston, 1918, pp. 38. 

Paper, 25 cents. 

This is a pamphlet of thirty-five pages 
which discusses market orders, standards of 
nourishment, and food economy and the 
food budget, in an introduction of ten pages, 
followed by the wartime recipes. The week- 
ly market order for four adults to cost 
SIO and the weekly order for four adults to 
cost about $16.50, each accompanied by 
weekly menus based upon the market order, 
is a valuable item. 

Wlieatless and Meatless Days. By Pauline 
Dunwell Partridge axd Hester Mar- 
tha CoNKLLN. New York: D. .\ppleton 
and Company, 1918, pp. 225. $1.25. 
"Wheatless and Meatless Days" is another 
book prepared to help the housewives of 
.America follow more intelligently the sug- 
gestions of the Food .Administration. 

It especially emphasizes simple attractive 
recipes that may be prepared at low cost. 

It is prepared jointly by a successful and 
practical teacher of home economics and a 
housekeeper, and has added value for this 
reason. 

Tlie Corn Cook Book. War Edition. By 

Elizabeth O. Hlller. Chicago: P. F. 

Volland Company, 1918, pp. 127. $1.00 

plus postage. 

In response to the urgent plea "Save the 
Wheat," many cookery books especially 
emphasizing com cookery have been pub- 
lished. One of these by an experienced 
teacher of cooker}- is this Corn Cook Book 
that "includes many substantial, inexpensive 
dishes made from corn, some of which are 
unusually attractive in appearance as well 
as taste." Each recipe is said to have been 
carefully tested. 



1918] 



BOOKS AND LITERATURE 



287 



PUBLICATIONS OF THE UNITED STATES FOOD ADMINISTRATION 



Bulletins 1 to IS 

No. 1. Food Administration* 

2. Food Administration.* 

3. Ten Lessons on Food Conserva- 

tion.* Lessons 1 to 5. 

4. Ten Lessons on Food Conserva- 

tion.* Lessons 6 to 10. 

5. Ten Lessons on Food Consena- 

tion.* Lessons 1 to 10. .\vail- 
able in ever)' public librar>'. 

6. Creation of the U. S. Food .Ad- 

ministration. 

7. Present campaign.*** 

8. Commodity licensing. 

9. Kequa, M. L.— A few food 
problems.* 

10. Grain and livestock. 

11. Standard loaf.*** 

12. Wheat conservation problem.* 
1.?. Food value of milk. 

14. Why we must send wheat. 

15. Food control a war measure. 

Bakery Section 

Report of Federal Trade Commission on 
bakery business in the United States. 

Instructions to bakery inspectors. 

Licensed millers of com, corn starch, barley, 
oats and rice. 

Hotel Section 

Hotels, restaurants, dining cars, etc. 
General plan.** 
Steamship bulletins. 

Library 

Food news notes for publiclibraries, Nos. 1 to 

5. (Monthly) 
Food conser\-ation bibliography. 

Liansing Division 

Rules and regulations governing the importa- 
tion, manufacture, storage and distribu- 
tion, of food commodities for domestic 
trade by persons subject to license. 

Rules and regulations governing licenses 
manufacturing bakery products. 

.Additional rules promulgated January 31, 
1918. 

Amendments to licensing. 



• Out of print. 



Obsolete. 



Meat Division 

Hog and com ratios.* 

Prices of hogs.* 

Regulations of Packers' profits. 

Religious Press 

Bulletins for the clergy. 1. No. ** 
Organizing the church for Food Conser\-a- 

tion. ** 
Religious press bulletins. (Weekly.) No 

longer issued. 
Cast thy bread upon the waters.* 

Retail Merchants 

Bulletins for retail merchants. 2. Nos. ** 

Enlisting the food merchants. ** 

Retail stores flyer. (From time to time.) 

To retail food merchants. 

Grocers give adherence.* 

To win the war. 

Seven ways to help the Food .Administra- 
tion. 

Directions for guidance of persons engaged 
in distributing food commodities at retail. 

Speakers' Division 

Speakers' bulletins 

No. 1. Saving subsistence. 

2. An adventure in democracy. 

3. Solving the problem. 

4. Plan and scope. 
.S. The best answer. 
6. Fifty-fifty. 

Not available except for special reqiicst. 

Trade attd Technical Press Section 

Weekly bulletin (discontinued). 
Food Conservation Notes. (Available only 
for members of the press) 

General 

Food Administration law. 

Food bill. 

Prussian system, by F. C. Walcott. 

Wheat needs of the world, by .A. E. Taylor. 

Consen'ation and regulation in the United 
States, by C. R. Van Hise, 2 parts, part 1, 
published by the Food .Administration, 
part 2, published by the University of 
Wisconsin, Madison, Wisconsin.* 

**• Out of date. 



288 



THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS 



[June 



Organizers' manual. National family pledge 
card campaign.** 

Instructions to volunteer special representa- 
tives of the Food Conservation Division.'* 

U. S. Food Administration Exhibit. Why 
food conser\'ation is necessary. 

Graphic exhibits on food conservation at 
fairs and expositions.* 

Handbook for Pennsylvania train exhibit. 

Resolutions adopted by various conferences 
or organizations.*** 

On Guard Leaflets 

1. On guard.* 

2. Fats, why save them?* 

3. A pound of flour.* 

4. A cubic inch of meat.* 
War service in the home.** 

Ten things Americans should know and 

seven things Americans should do.** 
Food regulations for householders briefly 

stated. 
War cook book for American women, by 

F. J. Haskins.* 
War economy in food with suggestions and 

recipes.* 
Suggestions for food conservation in course 

dinners and luncheons. 
Practical suggestions for food conservation. 
Simple meals.* 
Tested recipes (12 slips). 
Policies and plans of operation. Wheat, 

flour, and bread. 
Doubling the wheat. 
Bread, a foreword and three recipes.* 
Victory bread, (experimental formulas). 
Victory bread, save the wheat. 
Wheat saving program for the household. 
Pound for pound. April 1918. 
Until the next harvest. 
Wheat for liberty. 
Com. 

Wheatless recipes. 

Outline for a potato campaign. March 1918 
Potatoes for wheat. 
Christmas sweets.* 
Victory sugar. 
Production, distribution and food value of 

milk.* 
Ice harvest.* 



Garbage utilization. 

A new price index, April 1918. 

Food Questions Answered 

Cards 
Home card. 
Home card. (Second.) 
Home card, 1918. 
Home cards in English and vernacular, 

Bohemian, Finnish, French, Hungarian, 

Italian, Jewish, Norwegian, Russian, Slo- 
vak and Swedish.* 
Theatre — Pledge card. 
Breads.* 
Fats.* 
In Cooperation With the Department 

OF Agriculture 
U. S. Food Leaflets: 

Choose your food wisely. 

Do you know com meal? 

Do you know oatmeal? 

Food for your children. 

Instead of meat. 

Make a little meat go a long way. 

Plenty of potatoes. 

Start the day right with a good breakfast. 

X'egetables for winter. 

A whole dinner in one dish. 

Milk. The best food we have. Give 
your children milk. 

Save fuel when you cook. 

Dried peas and beans. 

Let the fireless cooker help you cook. 

Save sugar. Use other sweets. 

Use fat carefully. 

Use more fish. 

How much food is enough? 

What are calorics? 

What is protein? 

in cooperation with the department of 

AGRICULTURE AND THE WOMAN'S COM- 
MITTEE OF THE COUNCIL OF NATIONAL 
DEFENSE 

Food in war and peace. (In press.) 

m COOPERATION WITH THE BUREAU OF 

EDUCATION 

Lessons in community and national life. 
(IS community leaflets). Now issued by 
the Bureau of Education. 



BIBLIOGRAPHY OF HOME ECONOMICS 

PERIODIC.\L LITERATURE 
Foods and Conservation 

The Economics of the Palate. Dr. David Faircliild, Jour. Franklin Instilide, 18.S 
(1918) No. 3, pp. 299-316. 

Advertizing New Plant Foods. David Fairchild, Jour, of Heredity, Apr., 1918, pp. 155-157 

Helping to Solve our Allies Food Problem. Ralph Graves, National Geographic, 35 
(1918), No. 2, pp. 170-194. 

The Conservation of Wheat. Harrj' Snyder, Science, 47 (1918), No. 1218, pp. 429-433. 

Improper Feeding Among New York School Children. Jour, of Heredity. ."Vpr., 1918. 
p. 154. 

The JNIilk Bottle and the War. Mabel Dulon Purdy, McClures, May, 1918, p. 31. 

How Shall We Reduce the Price of Milk? Outlook, May 1, 1918, p. 12. 

The Potato. Literary Digest, May 14, 1918, p. 32. 

The Problem of the Food .Administration. Thomas H. Dickinson, World's Work, May, 
1918, pp. 103-113. 

Food Will Win the War. Produce It. F. F. Rockwell, Country Life, April, 1918, p. 53. 

The Peanuts' Bit. Judson D. Stuart, Country Life, Apr., 1918, p. 60. 

Geese as Food Conservators. F. H. Valentine, Country Life, Apr., 1918, p. 118. 

Wanted a Program of Consumption. E. Davenport, The Country Gentleman, Apr. 27, 1918. 

The Food Crusade. Thomas H. Dickinson, The Bookman, Apr., 1918, pp. 196-198. 
(A review of 4 books.) 

Our War Sugar Bowl. John Walker Harrington, Popular Sci. Mo., May, 1918, pp. 710, 
11. 

Wheat Slackers and Wheat Patriots. Literary Digest, Apr. 27, 1918, p. 26. 

Feeding a Nation in Peace and War. D. Noel Paton, Jour. State Med., 26 (1918), No. 
3, pp. 65-76. 

The Chicago Milk Inquir>\ C. S. Duncan, Jour. Polit. Econ., 26, (1918), No. 4, pp. 321- 
346. 

Cereal Substitutes for Wheat. Carl Miner, Amer. Food Jour., Jan., 1918. 

Some Difficulties with War Breads and How They Were Overcome. Modern Hasp., 
.\pr., 1918. 

Baking E.xperiments with So-called Egg Substitutes. Kans. State Bd. of Health, Bui. Xo.3, 
Mar., 1918. 

Tested Internationa! Recipes. May Van Arsdale and Day Monroe, Teachers College 
Rec, Jan., 1918. 

Food for Children from Two to Six Years Old. Mass. Pub. Health Bui., Feb., 1918. 

Wheat — A World Problem. Raymond Pearl. Amer. Food Jour., Apr., 1918. 

Cafeterias in War Time. Margaret Proctor, Association Monthly, May, 1918. 

Some Simple Fruit and Vegetable Evaporators. Fred P. Reagle, Itidus. Arts Mag.. .\pT., 
1918. 

Farm Work of Women in War Time. E. Merritt, Gen. Fed. Mag., .\pT., 1918. 

.•\ Wartime Program for the Protection of Children. Julia C. Lathrop, Gen. Fed. Mag., 
Jan. and Feb., 1918. 

Ten Lessons on Our Food Supply. W. G. Vinal, Gen. Sci. Quarterly, Jan., 1918. 

289 



290 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS QunC 

Textiles — General 

Moisture Content and Some of its EflFects. Hartshome, Textile World Jour., Jan. 12, 1918. 
How War Strategy Affected Textiles. Hartshome, Texlile World Jour., Jan. 12, 1918. 
War Testing of Te.xtiles by Bureau of Standards. Hartshome, Textile World Jour., 
Jan. 12, 1918. 

New and Unusual War Textiles. Hartshome, Textile World Jour., Jan. 12, 1918. 
Review of Linen Yarn. Textile World Jour., Feb. 23, 1918. 

Wool 

The Salvage of War. Isaac Marcasson, Fashion Revird>, Mar. and Apr., 1918. 
Wool Situation. Forrest Cressey, Country Gentleman, Mar. 2, 1918. 
.\lleged Plot to Secure Wool for Germany Disclosed. Textile World Jour., Mar. 23, 1918. 
.\ttomey General's Report on Alleged Wool Plot. Textile World Jour., Apr. 13, 1918. 
Deny Commandeering of Wool. Textile World Jour., Apr. 13, 1918. 
\\'ool Buying Suspended. Te.xtile World Jour., April 13, 1918. 
Report of More Sheep. More Wool Assn., Textile World Jour., Apr. 13, 1918. 
Government Wool Policy. Textile World Jour., Apr. 6, 1918. 
Amiy Cloth Shortage. Textile World Jour., Apr. 6, 1918. 

Oiling, Scouring, Fulling — New Conditions Due to War. Wm. H. Butler, Textile World 
Record, Mar. 9, 1918. 

Dry Goods Supply Depends on Imports of Wool. Dry Goods Economist, Mar. 9, 1918. 

Cotton 

Standardized Cotton Waste. Textile World Rec, Mar. 16, 1918. 

Status of Cotton, War Needs and Short Crop Restrict Production. E. F. King, Dry 
Goods Economist, Mar. 9, 1918. 

Starch Conservation. Textile World Jour., Mar. 23, 1918. 

Rejected Cotton and its Utilization. Te.xtik World Jour., Mar. 23, Apr. 6, .\pr. 13, 1918. 

See also Textile World Rec, Mar. 9, 1918. 

Trade Conservative: MiUs Withdrawing. Textile World Jour., .\pr. 13, 1918. 

Cotton Fabrics Prices. Dry Goods Economies, Apr. 13, 1918. 

Dyes and Color 

History of Dyeing and Dyes. H. H. Manchester, Color Trade Jour., Apr., 1918. 
Furs and Fur Dyeing. B. R. .\rmour, The Leather Manufacturer, Apr., 1918. 
Made in .-Vmerica. Chas. Lamont Humphrey, Textile Colorist, Mar., 1918. 
Textile Color Card for Fall. Dry Goods Economist, Mar. 9, 1918. 
Dye Stuff Manufacture in France. Andre Wahl., Color Trade Jour., Mar., 1918. 
Stabilizing Dyestuffs. Chas. H. Stone, Textile World Jour., Mar. 2, 1918. 
Chnching the Latin-.\merican After the War Trade in Dye-Stuffs. .Alfred Thomas 
Marks, Textile Colorist, Mar., 1918. 

Miscellaneous 

The Manufacture of Nut Margarine. Glenn H. Pickard, Amer. Food Jour., Jan., 1918. 

Annotated Bibliography of Consumers' Cooperation. Janes Ford, Survey, Feb. 9, 1918. 

Household Arts Arithmetic. J. T. Ball, School Review, Dec, 1917. 

Economic Housekeeping as a War Measure, Touchstone, Feb., 1918. 

Wage Earning Women — Their Clothing. Bureau of Labor Statistics, Vol. 6, Feb., 1918. 



NEWS FROM THE FIELD 



NEWS NOTES FROM THE FOOD ADMINISTRAnON 



The present is an opportune time to make 
a campaign as vigorously as local conditions 
warrant on the greatest possible use of all 
fresh perishable foods products. Consum- 
ers should not be allowed to forget that the 
use by them of these shortlived foods liber- 
ates the more concentrated and staple ones 
for people in the remote sections and for the 
Allies and soldiers. 

The usual wastage of large volumes of 
these products should be overcome in a sea- 
son like the present one. 

.■\ train of 127 freight cars, containing 
40,367 barrels, valued at $442,914, the repur- 
chase price, represents wheat flour turned 
over by the people to the Food .-Vdminis- 
tration for shipment abroad as the result of 
£ drive throughout the state of .■\rkansas to 
obtain flour for our Army and the Allies. 

For the first time in more than thirty years 
the granaries of the Mormon Church are 
being swept clean, and more than a quarter 
of a million bushels of wheat have been 
turned over to the Food Administration. 
This represents the enormous reserve supply 
that was built up under the regime of 
Brigham Young to protect his people against 
any possible emergency. 

This big church reserve supply of wheat is 
collected under the tithing practice. The 
farmer church members after each harvest 
contribute one-tenth of their production. 
This not only provides insurance against 
famine, but is drawn upon as seed for future 
crops. 

Nothing before has ever been allowed to 
interfere with the collection and preservation 
of this reserve. 

.\lthough the .Xmerican housewife is urged 
to can or preserve every ounce of fruit or 



vegetables she can possibly lay her hands on 
as a patriotic food conservation measure, her 
product must be reserved for civilian use. 
Home canned and preser\'ed goods cannot 
be purchased or accepted as gifts for the 
.^rmy or Navy because of the difficulty 
acceptance of small lots would entail in the 
way of inspection. 

But every additional million jars or cans 
that are filled by housewives for home use 
will release an identical quantity of commer- 
cially canned goods for export. There will 
also be saved the labor, space on freight cars 
and cost of transportation that would mount 
up if factory-preserved foods had to be sent 
broadcast throughout the countrj-, instead 
of being shipped in large blocks to canton- 
ments or abroad. Housewives will be able 
to use containers already in their possession, 
thus relieving the demand for cans at a time 
of shortage of tin. 

During the months of June, July, and 
August the Food .Administration is extremely 
anxious to secure a reduction of fresh beef 
consumption in order to maintain the .\llies' 
supply, and to secure this without substitu- 
tion of pork or poultry. While we have 
enough of these for ordinarj- consumption, 
we can not provide for their additional use as 
substitutes for beef. We have supplies of 
by-products such as ox-tails, tongues, livers, 
kidneys, sweetbreads, tripe, and brains, 
because only the meat cuts are being ex- 
ported. The use of these could be employed 
but more especially the use of sea food, 
vegetables, and fruit. The use of milk and 
dairy products is also urged. 

National Conference of Social Work, 

Kansas City, May 15-22, 1918. Mobiliz- 
ing the Local Community, The Children's 
Year and After, Some Problems of the War 
291 



292 



THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS 



[June 



and Reconstruction, The National Problem 
of Malnutrition Among Children of School 
Age, Americanization, The R6le of the 
Volunteer in the Social Work of the Future, 
— these are a few of the many important 
topics discussed at section and general 
meetings during the National Conference 
of Social Work. A number of home eco- 
nomics workers were in attendance at the 
Conference, their interests being centered 
at a home economics luncheon held at the 
Savoy, Saturday, May 18, under the direc- 
tion of the Social Work Committee of the 
American Home Economics Association, 
and with the special assistance of Miss 
Louise Stanley of the University of Missouri 
and Miss Anna E. Hussey of the Kansas 
City public schools. 

Over fifty were present at this luncheon 
all of whom were actively engaged in various 
forms of home economics and social work 
in the states of Missouri, Kansas, Nebraska, 
Illinois, Minnesota, Michigan, Ohio, New 
York, Pennsylvania, Wisconsin and Massa- 
chusetts. Many reports were given of inter- 
esting work under way in various localities, 
and there was much interchange of personal 
experience in problems of community organ- 
ization, especially the problems involved 
in organizing, training, and utilizing home 
economics volunteers. There was also con- 
siderable discussion of the methods to be 
used in reaching the foreign-bom man and 
woman, the value of the visiting house- 
keeper in community effort as well as in 
the work of the charitable society, and the 
desirability of greater correlation between 
the courses in home economics schools and 
the work in various social agencies, so that 
students might be given more opportunity 
for supervised field work in family \nsiting, 
and thus greater opportunity for experi- 
ence in adapting home economics instruc- 
tion so as to meet indi%'idual home needs. 

It is hoped that at the next Conference 



this special home economics discussion may 
be included as a more definite part of the 
Conference program, and that a much 
larger number of home economics workers 
will be in attendance at the Conference to 
receive the stimulation, inspiration, and 
practical help which its meetings always 
provide. 

E\nfA A. WiNSLOW, 
Chairman, Social Work Committee, 
American Home Economics Association. 

Teachers of Domestic Science for 
China. Several of the missionarj- boards 
are asking for domestic science teachers in 
various countries, among them China. One 
call has just come from the Woman's Union 
Missionary Society, 67 Bible House, New 
York City, for a domestic science teacher in 
the school of the Society in Shanghai, China. 
The opportunity is not alone to teach 
domestic science to Chinese girls, but to 
train Chinese young women as teachers of 
domestic science so that they will go out into 
the public schools. Teachers of domestic 
science who would be interested in this or 
similar opportunities may well correspond 
with the Student Volunteer Movement for 
Foreign Missions, 25 Madison .A.venue, or the 
Missionary Boards of the Churches. 

The Food Shop of the Women's Educa- 
tional and Industrial Union, Boston, 
announced that beginning jSIay 1, 1918, it 
would offer for sale no products containing 
wheat. This statement accompanies the 
announcement: "The elimination of wheat 
may affect the appearance, taste, and quality 
of certain products, and since some of the sub- 
stitute flours cost twice as much as wheat 
flour, prices may be affected also. We rely 
on the cooperation of our patrons to make 
this change a success. \A'e believe you are 
ready to endure cheerfully minor privations 
that wheat may be saved for our soldiers at 
the front and for those of the Allies." 



THE 

Journal of Home Economics 



Vol. X JULY, 1918 No. 7 

THE FOOD OF BELGIUM 

VERNON KELLOGG 

The Food Administration asks that we be as careful and economical 
of food as we can; that we modify our food habits in some httle measure 
in order to increase the quantity of wheat, meat, and sugar that can be 
sent overseas. It asks for nothing in the way of real deprivation or 
sacrifice. Most of us are doing what it asks. But how little it is when 
we compare it with what some other people are doing. 

Part of our food-savings goes to Belgium. For three and a half years 
America has helped to keep Belgium ahve. It has sent, with whatever 
regularity has been possible, the wheat, rice, dried peas and beans, lard 
and bacon that furnish the daily ration for the ten million unfortunates 
in Belgium and occupied France. And this daily ration! What a 
ration it is; a piece of war bread, a little rice, dried peas and beans, a 
microscopic portion of bacon and another of lard, a scant allowance of 
condensed milk and a httle burned grain to take the place of coffee. 
And this same ration day after day, over and over again. 

One-half the people of Belgium today receive a part or all of their 
daily food from charity. Over a million and a half get their food by 
standing each day in the long soup lines in front of communal kitchens. 
Whenever our food shipments decrease, these soup hues increase, because 
when there is a shortage of food in Belgium, the soup lines and the chil- 
dren's canteens are the first to be cared for. In one month, the soup 
lines of proud old Antwerp increased from 40,000 to 150,000. That 
meant that every other man, woman, and child in that great city had to 
rely on the soup lines for daily bread. 

Isolated from the rest of the world, cut off from news of their own 
soldiers at the front, assaulted physically and tortured mentally by their 

293 



294 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [July 

utterly cruel oppressors and slave drivers, they have yet maintained a 
spiritual resistance and, wherever possible in the face of machine guns at 
street heads and in open places, a physical resistance to the Germans. 
Theirs has been the real trial and the real sacrifice. Not the least part 
of this trial and sacrifice has been in connection with their lack of food. 

Shall we now, because our experience in the war is beginning, forget 
their long experience, with its ever increasing hardship and privation? 
It has not been difficult for us to spare for Belgium the food that it has 
needed, but with the growing demands on us for the other Allies, and 
the needs of our own army overseas, it is becoming more difficult for us 
to maintain the Belgian shipments. This growing difiiculty must in no 
way lessen our giving. We must meet it — and we can easily meet it — 
by making the beginning of a sacrifice on our own part. What was 
before so easy that we could not notice it in our own living is now be- 
coming a duty and privilege which we can in some slight measure per- 
sonally feel. There is no question for us of the semi-starvation that has 
been the actual condition of the Belgians for three and one-half years. 
There is no question even of real hardship, nor of the least injury to 
health or impairment to strength. There is only the question now of a 
slight sacrifice of taste and of convenience. But we must make this 
slight sacrifice if the Belgians are to be kept alive, and the Italians, the 
French, and the EngUsh are to be enabled to carry on the war. 

We should be glad of our opportunity. These other peoples have 
already fought for us too long, but they must keep on fighting. In 
order to do this, however, they rely on us absolutely for their food 
supply. To meet that obhgation of ours is the real reason for our 
government food control, our Food Administration. All the sugges- 
tions, all the regulations made by the Food Administration have one 
end in view — that we shall continue, even in the face of increasing 
difiiculties, to maintain the food supply of the fighting Allies, and keep 
the Belgians, as we have literally kept them so far, from starvation. 
If we could but once visualize the situation of those long-suffering people, 
we should insist upon putting ourselves beside them, not only with 
heart and soul and army and navy, but as companions in hardship and 
sacrifice; we should insist that we share and share alike. I am almost 
glad that the food situation is becoming more difficult, because as we 
feel it more, we shall do better and better. All we need is truly to realize 
the situation in order to meet it. That realization is beginning. 



1918] TEACHING FOOD VALUES 295 

TEACHING FOOD V.^UES' 

C. F. LANGWORTHY 
United Stales Department of Agriculture, Washington, D. C. 

At such a time as this, when food problems are of the greatest impor- 
tance in cormection with the War Emergency situation and when we 
must make every effort to stretch our food supply to meet military 
needs and the needs of the civilian population in the United States and 
allied countries, it is well that we should take stock of our knowledge 
of foods and food values to see what we have and how we can best make 
use of it. 

Besides an instinctive recognition of the need for variety in the diet, 
we have a great store of empirical knowledge as to how to gather food, 
how to grow it, how to make an unpromising raw material into a usable 
foodstuff, how to cook food so as to develop its good qualities, and 
how to combine different kinds into palatable and nourishing meals. 
We have also an understanding, even though we do not always act 
upon it, of the importance of moderation in eating, and we recognize 
that a continuing sense of well-being, health, and vigor is one proof that 
we are rightly fed. 

For such knowledge we have to thank the countless generations of 
men and women who have learned in the school of experience and passed 
on what they have learned. We have also to thank the thinker who 
has pondered on these things which pertain to our daily life and 
drawn conclusions for our guidance. Out of this thinking has come the 
laboratory method, old in its beginnings and very greatly developed 
in the last few decades, which enables us to test the worth of theories 
and to accumulate carefully tested data. 

The research method has enabled us to know the structure, operation, 
and fuel requirements of the body machine and has just lately shown 
us that mineral and protein building material and energy are not enough 
but that we must have in addition two other substances essential for 
normal body growth and maintenance, which we frankly refer to as 
the "unknowns," because we do not know as yet the nature of something 
whose existence has been demonstrated. 

' Presented at the Tenth /Vnnual Meeting of the American Home Economics Association, 
Atlantic City, March, 1918. 



296 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS Quly 

Taking stock of what we have naturally raises the question as to 
whether or not we can more effectively apply the existing information 
to insure a more satisfactory use of food resources and provide a diet 
adequate for normal body development and maintenance. All will 
agree that there is a general willingness to learn, that there is much to 
teach, and that there are highly developed methods for giving instruc- 
tion. In proof we have only to think of the great development of formal 
home economics teaching in the last fifty years, the great popular inter- 
est in the subject, and the efforts which are being made to meet a popu- 
lar demand by extension teaching and in other ways. Through the 
efforts of the Government, the ^^merican Home Economics Association, 
and other agencies, home economics, of which food is so important a 
part, has been systematically classified in pedagogical form, and it has 
been shown that in truth home economics is, to quote a definition, 
"the organized body of knowledge which treats of food, clothing, shelter, 
and household management in their physical, economic, and social 
aspects as related to the life and welfare of the individual, the family, 
and the community." 

Though no one would claim that the ideal had yet been reached, it 
can be justly claimed that professional teaching in home economics — 
and one might more truly say in food than in any other of the sub- 
divisions — is being successfully carried out. There are well established 
and well arranged courses of instruction for teachers, professional and 
vocational needs, and also courses arranged to form a part of general 
cultural education. To meet the demands of teacher and student, 
subject matter has accumulated rapidly in the form of government and 
state documents, text-books, reference books, and so on, and also in 
popular generalizations and discussions. 

In the matter of food and dietetics, general information is available 
and is being widely disseminated regarding production, handling, 
marketing, and preparation of food for the table, and a temainology 
known onlj' in the laboratory a few years ago is becoming common in 
the public press and in conversation. Indeed it is comparatively easy 
to give much information on food and its uses and to give it in a form 
which is readily understood and generally acceptable. 

In considering the matter one must not overlook the great demand 
which exists now, as it always has, for generalization and "rules of liv- 
ing," a demand coming largely from those who have had neither time 
nor opportunity for even a limited amount of special training in food 
and its use but who have a right to know, if it is possible to tell them, 



1918] TEACraNG FOOD VALUES 297 

how to select foods wisely, how to prepare them acceptably, and how to 
combine them into adequate meals. It surely behooves home economics 
workers to meet this need and not leave the field to the ignorant and 
to the exploiter whose fantastic statements and claims, which may seem 
to many as reasonable as would the scientific facts, are only too often 
presented in language which he can understand and with a specious 
authority which a reader or a hearer accepts without question. To do 
its part, home economics must fully appreciate the need for simpl t and 
definite instruction and must itself make generalizations and lay down 
its "rules of living" always with an honesty of purpose which recognizes 
that rules are onh' attempts to express truth and that they must be 
modified as knowledge accumulates. 

A study of the meals of families whose health and general body main- 
tenance indicate that they are well fed, shows that though food mate- 
rials differ widely the world over, there is nevertheless a uniformity 
when one takes into account the chemical substance which the foods 
supply and the amounts of the food constituents the body obtains. In 
the same way a study of the composition of foods and the ways that 
they are used in the diet shows that varied as they are they may be 
grouped in a way which will indicate both similarities and differences 
in food value and consequently in dietetic use. To be useful as a basis 
for popular instruction in food values, such grouping must be simple, 
easily understood, and of a sort which can be readily used. Like all 
such generalizations it must accord with common experience and com- 
mon sense. The generalization which the Department of Agriculture 
has made — and the Department has profited by the many attempts at 
food grouping which others have proposed — divides the available food 
supply into five groups: The first is made up of fruits and vegetables, 
the second of milk, eggs, meat, meat substitutes, and meat savers, the 
third of cereal foods and their products, the fourth of sugars and other 
sweet foods, and the fifth of fats and fatty foods. The first group sup- 
plies mineral building material in a proportion large in comparison with 
its energy value. The second group supplies in its protein, in a propor- 
tion large as compared to its energy value, nitrogen in the right form 
for body-building material. The fourth group supplies little except 
body fuel in a quickly available form. The fifth group is like the fourth, 
an energy-yielding group, but is set apart because the amount of energy 
supplied i)er unit weight of fat is so much greater than that supplied by 
a unit weight in any other group. Betv/een the first two and the last 
two groups comes group three, the cereal foods and their products, 



298 



THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS 



[July 



which truly is a "middle group" in that the cereal foods share the prop- 
perties of the groups which precede and those which follow, being valu- 
able sources of mineral and nitrogenous body-building materials and 
also important sources of energy. When one thinks of this it is easy 
to understand the reliance that mankind places on this group and to 
see why bread has been so generally looked upon as the staff of life. 

In arranging the foods under the several group headings, the lists 
may be long or short and each list may or may not be subdivided to 
bring out the differences in its members. Very commonly in popular 
teaching a short list, without any special attempt to subdivide the 
members of each group, is to be preferred since too much detail often 
hinders rather than helps one to grasp the main point which is after all 
simple and easy to understand, remember, and apply — namely, that 
foods are different, and that the diet must contain the different kinds. 

The grouping of foods can be simpUfied or can be elaborated as seems 
best under given circumstances. 

The five food groups* 



Group I 


Group II 


Group III 


Group IV 


Group V 


Fruits and vegeta- 
ble?. Important 
sources of min- 
eral substances. 


Milk, meat, meat 
substitutes, meat 
savers. Sources of 
protein. 


Cereals and their 

products. Starchy 
foods. Valuable 
sources of energy 
and protein. 


Sugar, sugar substi- 
tutes and savers. 
Supply energy in 
readily available 
form. 


Fals and fatty foods. 
Supply mucli en- 
ergy. 


Vegetables 


MUk 


Grains 


Sugars 


Fats 


Spinach 


Cheese 


Wheat 


Cane sugar 


Butter 


Lettuce 


Eggs 


Rye 


Beet sugar 


Cream 


Cabbage 


Meat 


Com 


Maple sugar 


Lard 


Celery, etc. 


Beef 


Rice 


Milk sugar 


Drippings 


Salsify 


Mutton 


Oats 


Sugar substitutes 


Seed oils 


Potatoes 


Pork 


Barley 


Molasses 


Nut oils, etc. 


Carrots 


Veal, etc. 


Grain sorghums 


Honey 


Fat-rich foods 


Onions, etc. 


Meat substitutes 


Buckwheat, etc. 


Glucose 


Fat pork 


String beans 


Fish 


Grain products 


Com simp, etc. 


Bacon 


Green peas 


Oysters 


Flours 


Sugar rich foods 


Suet 


Green com 


Clams and 


Meals 


Sweet f mits, 


Oily nuts, etc. 


Okra, etc. 


other sea food 


Cereal break- 


fresh and 




Fruits 


Some legumes 


fast foods 


dried 




Apples 


Other protein rich 


Macaroni, etc. 


Jams 




Plums 


foods 




Preserves 




Grapes 


Beans 




Candy, etc. 




Oranges 


Peas and most 








Berries, etc. 


other legumes 
Nuts 









* Though essentially the same, this classification differs somewhat from that published 
earUer. Sci. Mo., 2 (1916), p. 294. 



1918] TEACHING FOOD VALUES 299 

In using such a table, and it may be made to include local as well as 
general food products, the first thing for beginners is to learn the name 
of the groups and the members of each group, and it is hardly possible 
to do this without realizing that foods are different and that the groups 
bring like kinds together. When one seeks reasons for the grouping it 
should be made clear that building material characterizes the first two 
groups and fuel value the last two groups, the middle group being the 
meeting ground of these characteristics. Though obviously this classi- 
fication of foods is based upon their characteristics (1) as building and 
repair material and (2) as body fuel, some discussion may arise as to 
why a given food should be included in one group instead of another. 
For instance, the potato is recognized as a starchy food — why not put 
it in Group III with other starchy foods? For one reason because its 
common use is as a vegetable; for another, because one is more likely to 
overlook its value as a source of mineral building material than its 
value as a starchy food. One can point out, however, that if there is 
a shortage of starch-yielding cereal, potato can be used in place of it, 
becoming a temporary member of Group III. 

So far as it goes the classification is in accord with facts and is con- 
sistent and forms part of a definite plan for making food facts plain. 
It shows a number of relations and makes the discussion of many mat- 
ters easy. It is not claimed that it does all that is desirable. A classi- 
fication which would also bring together the foods which are the chief 
sources of the two unknown constituents, Fat-soluble A and Water- 
soluble B, would be convenient but this does not seem feasible until we 
have a more definite knowledge of these constituents and their relation 
to those whose uses for body building and body fuel we know more 
about. However, one can discuss these constituents on the basis of the 
present classification. For instance, it can be pointed out that Fat- 
soluble A is found conspicuously in certain members of Group I, Group 
II, and Group V. The relation of the green leaf vegetables of Group I 
to the presence of unknown A in certain members of Group II (milk, 
egg yolk, and meat), and Group V (butter, cream, suet), which come 
from animals which live on green forage crops, offers an opportunity to 
discuss many problems pertaining to the value of foods in nutrition. 

As regards water-soluble B, one can point out that though it may 
occur in some members of all the groups, it is characteristic of the green 
portions of plants or other actively growing portions, and that it accum- 
ulates in the body of animals, particularly those which directly live 



300 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [July 

upon such parts of plants. The relation of milling, sugar refining, oil 
making, etc., to the presence or absence of mineral constituents, protein, 
and the "unknowns" is another matter which can be mentioned and 
naturally leads up to the discussion of the special value of some foods. 
It can be pointed out, for instance, that milk, a "natural" food, is 
almost indispensable because of the Fat-soluble A it supplies, and the 
special value of its protein. It can be pointed out also that butter, a 
milk product, in addition to being an important energy food, contains 
Fat-soluble A. In discussing starch it can be pointed out 
that it is a carbohydrate food useful as a source of energy, while 
the grain or roots from which it is made, contain body-building 
material as well. One can go on to show how easily meals can be planned 
to include foods which meet all needs and how one food may be used to 
make good a deficiency in another; eggs, for instance, to supply protein 
deficient in a diet high in vegetables, fruits, and starchy foods. This 
will afford another illustration of the fact that to be satisfactory meals 
must be truly varied if they are to supply the needed body fuel and the 
building and repair materials, including the "unknown" essentials. 

By considering such matters as these in relation to body needs, it 
becomes apparent that diets which are conceded to be adequate or 
truly balanced contain representatives of all five groups. One may 
reverse the statement and truthfully say that a diet in which all the five 
groups are reasonably well represented will meet the food requirement 
of the body. 

It need hardly be said that there is no thought that such a generaliza- 
tion as the food grouping suggested should be used to replace other 
methods of presenting the subject which have been tested and found 
good. It is the conviction that such a plan as this has a place with 
them and that it will prove useful under circumstances where a more 
technical presentation would not be readily understood or where it may 
serve as a convenient introduction to the more technical presentation. 

In addition to publications of the Department of Agriculture which 
have already appeared, others are planned in which food selection, meal 
planning, and other problems are discussed on the basis of this food 
group generalization, together with charts and other illustrative material 
which help to make it clear that it is easily possible to plan meals which 
do meet the needed body requirements and also that it is only too easy, 
if one does not keep in mind this simple grouping — or something else 
which makes clear the likenesses and differences in foods — to plan meals 



1918] TEACHING FOOD VALUES 301 

which are so unduly rich in body-building foods or energy-yielding foods 
that the diet is decidedly ''unbalanced." 

Knowing the food groups greatly simplifies the housekeeper's prob- 
lem for she can think of her problems in terms of the foods which she 
knows rather than in the terms of the laboratory. The other members 
of the family can also understand the matter and see why, if they are 
to have a truly balanced diet, they should partake in reasonable amounts 
of all the foods which she has chosen and prepared for them. It is 
easy to see also that if one lives upon a diet very generous as regards 
carbohydrate foods, either starchy foods or sugar, or very generous as 
regards foods rich in fat, the diet will have a fuel value unduly high as 
compared with building material. If, on the other hand, our meals 
day after day are very generous with respect to meat and similar foods, 
the diet is almost sure to be deficient in mineral substances or in fuel 
value. Or again, it may be made plain that if green vegetables are 
generally left out of the diet because one may not happen to fancy 
them, there is a danger that too little of the mineral matter required 
for body building or of the unknown dietary substances will be supplied 
to meet the body needs. 

The great value of milk as a food of which it is difi&cult to eat too 
much, the value of butter fat, of cheese, and of eggs, can be made clear 
as well as the varied usefulness of cereal grains and their products, 
and it can be shown why it is that we can depend so largely upon cereal 
foods, — and this means lowered cost, — provided one keeps the balance 
right by using reasonable proportions of other groups, particularly such 
foods as milk, eggs, vegetables and fruits. 

Knowing the difi'erent foods and their relations to each other in the 
way proposed helps on the cost side of the problem also, for, since the 
idea is good representation of all the groups in the diet, one can see that 
this ideal can be attained very generally by using the cheaper members 
of a group in place of the more expensive. One can see also that mem- 
bers of one group can be used in place of those of another group under 
some circumstances, as bread or rice for potatoes, or the other way round. 
Such matters are easier to explain if one has learned to know the sorts 
of food there are and those there are of each sort. 

The food group generalization presented is based upon an extended 
study of dietary and other data sufficient, it is believed, to warrant the 
conclusion that it is sound. That it is convenient for popular instruc- 
tion seems clear from the results obtained by home economics workers 
who have been good enough to test the matter in their extension and 



302 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [July 

other teaching work. It has been a common experience to have a house- 
keeper say "This is something which I can understand and follow and 
which really helps me to plan my meals in a way which I can see must 
give my family what they need." Further, it has been found that this 
"food group" plan offers an easy way of introducing the subject of food 
and nutrition in more formal instruction and that it furnishes a con- 
venient arrangement of pegs on which to hang a great many facts regard- 
ing food and its uses. 



TEACHING FOOD VALUES' 

ALICE F. BLOOD 
Director, School of Household Economics, Simmons College, Boston 

I should like to contribute five minutes of my time to the general 
discussion because the thing I am here to say can be said briefly. I am 
here neither to present a plan like that of Miss Hunt's, nor to report 
progress as Miss Creswell is able to do, but to express the state of mind 
of home economics teachers. I know that I speak for the teachers here 
when I say that we feel the same sense of responsibility for the instruc- 
tion of the general public in the principles of nutrition that we feel for 
the instruction of the students in our immediate care, and that we 
feel it one of our first duties to arouse in our students a sense of responsi- 
bility to the community. 

I am not in close touch with rural conditions but there has certainly 
never been a time in the city when it was so easy to get an audience for 
the discussion of food. How to reach everyone in a city is another 
matter. I am incUned to think that our best messengers are the people 
who already have an entree into the home. We have in Boston an 
enthusiastic home missionary who earns his living selUng Grade A 
milk. A short time ago I sent to his firm for some advertising litera- 
ture and he was sent to bring it. We fell to talking about the educa- 
tional needs of people and he fairly burst out, "You see I go to people's 

' Part of the general discussion on How to Teach I-'ood Values to the General Public, 
at the Tenth Annual Meeting of the American Home Economics Association, Atlantic City, 
March, 1918. 



1918J TEACHING FOOD VALUES 303 

back doors and sometimes I arrive just as the woman is dishing up 
diimer. You haven't any idea of the dreadful cooking I see. There 
isn't a day goes by that I don't talk to some woman about her house- 
keeping and it isn't any of my business either." His instruction may 
not be as complete as we would like to have it but it at least has the 
advantage of reaching the woman who needs it most. I am convinced 
that if we are to reach great numbers of our city people we must do it 
indirectly through the people who go to the home on some other errand. 

An effort in this direction has been made for a number of years by the 
Instructive District Nursing Association in Boston whose nurses are all 
trained in the principles of nutrition before they are sent into their 
districts. A similar plan is that to interest kindergarten teachers in 
the proper feeding of children. 

Our first duty at this tinie is to carry, either directly or by proxy, the 
messages of the Food Administration but we shall be missing a great 
opportunity if we do not at the same time manage to teach a few of the 
most fundamental facts with reference to good cooking, judicious 
expenditure for food, and adequate nutrition. 



Those who select their food solely with a view to economy as respects 
cost find in the literature concerning foods the information that the 
cheapest sources of both energy and protein are the cereal grains, and 
the legume seeds, peas and beans. Economic conditions are now such 
that rigid economy is necessary in the purchase of food, especially among 
city dwellers with small incomes. Unless the public is speedily educated 
regarding the necessity of employing regularly in the diet either an 
appropriate amount of milk or of the leafy vegetables, it seems certain 
that the time is not far distant when dietary errors now becoming com- 
mon will become a still more important menace to the public health. — 
E. V . McCollum and N. Sitnmonds, Jour. Biological Chemistry, February, 
1918. 



304 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [July 

THE UTILIZATION OF SOME NUTS AS FOOD' 

LIEUT. FLORIAN A. CAJOEI 

Sanitary Corps, N. A. 

The term "nut" as usually used in dietetics is not defined on a botani- 
cal classification but applies to those fruits in which the edible kernel 
or meat is surrounded by a harder covering or shell. With this broad 
and rather loose definition not only deciduous trees but legumes, coni- 
fers, plants of wide botanical difference contribute to the supply of what 
is spoken of as nuts. 

Chemical analysis shows that the edible part of nuts holds an almost 
unique position among the food stuffs; it is highly concentrated, rich in 
protein, fat, and sometimes in carbohydrate, contains little refuse, and 
in these respects may surpass even such well recognized concentrated 
foods as cheese, eggs, meat, and cereals. 

From the nutritive point of view nuts may be divided into two groups. 
The first, which embraces the largest variety of our available nuts, is 
characterized by its high content of protein and fat. Such nuts as the 
almond, peanut, pine nut, and Brazil nut, fall into this class. The 
other group, exemplified by the chestnut, coconut, and lichi nut, is of 
low protein and fat content, but richer in carbohydrate. The reader is 
referred to the publications of Jaffa (1903), Woods and Merrill (1899), 
and Street (1916) for a description of the various nuts and tables show- 
ing their composition. 

Nuts and products made from nuts have long been used by man 
the world over as adjuncts to his diet. Among certain people and in 
certain localities this class of fruits, instead of being a mere supplement 
to an already complete dietary, has assumed a prominent place among 
the staple articles of food. Nevertheless, despite the fact, revealed by 
chemical analysis, that nuts offer a source of protein and fat in a con- 
centration seen in no other class of foods, their use has, as a rule, been 
limited to that of a delicacy supplementing an already adequate diet. 
As Woods and Merrill (1899, p. 90) say in discussing the food value of 
nuts: "In view of their high nutritive value, the readiness and cheap- 
ness with which they may be prepared, it is a matter of some astonish- 
ment that they have received so little consideration as a food." The 

^ From the Sheffield Laboratory of Physiological Chemistry in Yale University, New 
Haven. 



1918] UTILIZATION OF SOME NUTS AS FOOD 305 

failure to eat them more extensively is doubtless due in part to the 
reputation for indigestibility that nuts have, and to the discomfort that 
often occurs after eating them at the close of a hea^y meal. The study 
of the literature on the digestibihty shows that there is no evidence to 
sustain this reputation for indigestibility that has empirically arisen. 
It must be admitted, however, that there are comparatively few metab- 
olism experiments on record in which nuts made up a prominent part 
of the diet. 

The earlier investigators who used nuts in their experimental diets 
were not primarily interested in the digestibility of nuts, but were 
studying the minimum protein requirement or the comparative value 
of vegetable versus animal protein; and they gave little indication as to 
the fate of the nuts included in their diets. Of the earlier papers those 
of Albu (1901) and Rumpf and Schumm (1899) are of interest as having 
a bearing on the digestibility of nuts. The most extensive experiments 
on record are those made by Jaffa in Cahfornia (1901) (1903). His 
studies were conducted with fruitarians and nutarians who had lived 
for many years on a diet consisting mainly of nuts and fruits; and with 
a few university students who assumed the nutarian diet during the 
period of the experiments. The nuts used in Jaffa's diets were those 
commonly seen on American tables: the almond, Enghsh walnut, Brazil 
nut, pecan, and coconut. Jaffa's results, expressed as the conventional 
"coefficient of digestibility" of protein, ranged from 70 to 82 per cent 
on a diet of nuts and fruits, with an average of 75 per cent. On a mixed 
diet containing nuts he reports a protein utilization of 90 per cent. 
The average coefficient of protein digestibihty for ninety-three metab- 
olism experiments with young men on ordinary mixed diet has been 
computed by Atwater and Bryant (1899) as 93 per cent. A comparison 
of Jaffa's results with the average coefficient of digestibility on a mixed 
diet at once places the nut proteins — or properly speaking, the nitro- 
genous components — in a favorable light as highly nutritive foods. 

Niles (1909) kept medical students on a diet of bread and fruit, along 
with pecans, peanuts, and Brazil nuts for several days and reported that 
his subjects at the end of the period seemed to be in "fit" condition with 
no intestinal disturbance when nuts were eaten as a staple part of the 
diet. However he did not make observations that would contribute 
facts to the actual digestibihty of the nuts consumed. With the excep- 
tion of Jaffa's extended studies on the digestibility of nuts there are no 
detailed experiments in the literature on the value of nuts as foods. 



306 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [July 

It seems desirable, especially at this time when, with the decreasing 
meat supply, the world's food resources must be extended, that more 
light be thrown on the real place that nuts may assume in the diet. 

From the work of Langworthy and his co-workers (1917) on the 
digestibility of vegetable fats there is no reason to question the food 
value of the nut fats or to look on them as radically different in their 
physiological behavior from the other naturally occurring fats. We have 
therefore extended Jaffa's work and endeavored to determine if possible 
what factors influence the digestibility of nut proteins and carbohydrates. 

FLAN OF THE EXPERIMENTS 

The metabolism experiments were planned to study the utilization 
of the nitrogen in the case of the protein rich nuts, and of the carbo- 
hydrate and nitrogen of the chestnut, lichi nut, and coconut. 

As Mendel and Fine' have pointed out in studies on the utilization 
of the proteins of the cereals, in addition to the relation to digestion that 
the protein under study may possess there are other factors which must 
be considered in utihzation experiments. The texture of the food that 
contains the protein, as well as the presence of hemicelluloses or other 
indigestible substances that will give bulk to the intestinal content must 
be considered. The condition of the nuts, i.e., whether raw or cooked, 
the influence of moderate cooking, as when nuts are steamed and boiled, 
or the more extreme heating in roasting — these are factors that may 
influence the digestibiUty of nuts. For example, Saiki (1906) found that 
the starch of the raw chestnut was practically indigestible; yet cooked 
chestnuts are staple articles of the diet in many sections of the world. 
MerriU (1906) reports the utilization of the carbohydrates of cooked 
chestnut flour to be as good as that of wheat flour. It is customary in 
America to heat the peanut and often the almond before serving; while 
the pecan, EngUsh walnut, and pine nut are usually eaten raw. Nut 
butters and nut pastes are appearing on the market in increasing amounts. 
Is the nut served in this form more digestible, or is its nutritive value 
altered by this treatment? The experiments reported below were 
planned to try to answer some of the questions suggested above. 

The diet experiments were conducted on dogs and on men'. The 

' Mendel and Fine. Jour. Biol. Chem., 10, (1912), p. 303, p. 339. 

' Through the courtesy of Dr. J. H. Kellogg of Battle Creek, Michigan, opportunity was 
afforded at the Battle Creek Sanitarium to carry out the experiments on men. The assist- 
ance received from Dr. Paul Roth, director of the Clinical Laboratories of the Sanitarium, 



1918] UTILIZATION OF SOME NUTS AS FOOD 307 

food intake was carefully observed, all foods being weighed as served 
and all uneaten portions weighed at the end of the meal. Only dishes 
whose composition was fairly uniform from day to day were admitted 
into the diet. The dietary was selected to insure an intake sufficient 
for the calorific needs of the subjects. The human subjects either main- 
tained their body weight or gained somewhat during the progress of the 
trials. The urine was not examined. In the case of the dog urinary 
analysis indicated whether nitrogen balance was positive or negative. 
The feces of the different experimental periods were separated by means 
of lamp black or carmine in the usual manner. Sharp separation of 
the feces of the different periods was in all cases possible. Bone ash 
was added to the ration of the dog to insure a suitable bulk of feces and 
daily evacuation. The feces for each period were mixed with alcohol, 
oxalic acid added, and the whole evaporated to dryness on a water 
bath. 

The various articles of the diet, the urine and the feces were analyzed 
for nitrogen and carbohydrate — nitrogen in all cases by a modified 
Kjeldahl method. The carbohydrates were determined as the soluble 
reducing sugars present after hydrolysis with 2 per cent hydrochloric 
acid. Hydrolysis was effected by boiling under a reflex condenser for 
two hours or by heating in an autoclave under twenty-five pounds of 
steam for half an hour. After cooling, the hydrolysis mixture was 
freed from protein decomposition products that might reduce Fehling's 
solution, by addition of 25 per cent phosphotungstic acid. After filtra- 
tion and washing, the filtrate was neutralized, made up to volume, and 
the soluble sugars determined by means of the Allihn gravimetric method. 
The results are expressed in terms of glucose. 

In the table the results have been grouped according to the character 
of the diet to show the range of nitrogen utilization on the various diets. 

The utilization of the digestible carbohydrates in the control periods 
and on the diets containing the various nuts was so excellent and so 
nearly alike that detailed consideration here seems unnecessary. 

DISCUSSION AND CONCLUSION 

In expressing the results of digestion experiments as the "coefficient" 
of digestibility, one must carefully interpret the figures thus 

who placed all the facilities of the laboratory at our disposal, and the constant help and 
advice in planning the diets that Miss Corinne King, chief dietitian of the Sanitarium, gave, 
are gratefully acknowledged. 



308 



THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS 



[July 



obtained, and realize that these coefficients are not absolute values 
for any food that predominates in the diet. The presence of cellulose- 
containing foods that vary the bulk of the intestinal contents and other 
factors that increase or decrease the so-called metabolic nitrogen will 
change such a coefficient as we have used, based as it is on the ratio of 
the fecal nitrogen and food nitrogen alone. Even after using the avail- 
able methods for determining the metabolic nitrogen of the feces or 
making calculations to correct for this fraction of the nitrogen output 
the coefficient of digestibility can hardly be regarded as an absolute 
value. However in a series of experimental periods, where the general 
character of the diet was fairly constant and where several observations 
were made on the same individual the use of the digestion coefficient 
enables useful if not absolutely deffiied comparisons to be drawn between 
different experimental diets. 



Metabolism experiment on man. 



Summary of digestion trials. Coefficient of nitrogen 
utilization. 



c 


90 


c 


90 


c 


88 


c 


86 


B 


89 


B 


87 


B 


86 


B 


86 


A 


89 


A 


85 


A 


84 


G 


90 


G 


87 


G 


85 


H 


on 


H 


80 






Range 


84-90 



84 



83 



81-85 90-92 83-84 81-83 



^§ 



33 



83 



87 



87-89 



81-82 



In general the proteins (i.e. nitrogenous components) and carbohy- 
drates of the nuts studied were absorbed in large part; and in no case 
does the quantity of nitrogen or carbohydrate appearing in the feces 
indicate that these nuts are especially resistant to the digestive func- 



1918] UTILIZATION OF SOME NUTS AS FOOD 309 

tions of the alimentary canal. This conclusion is especially emphasized 
when the nuts are fed in a finely divided form as nut-paste or "butters." 
Here comminution is artificially obtained in a degree reached only by 
the most careful mastication. It is probably seldom that the whole 
edible nut is reduced by mere mastication to such a fine state as to con- 
tain no hard particles when it enters the stomach. Even small particles 
of such a relatively compact material as a nut in the stomach or intes- 
tines experience a slower rate or penetration of the digestive juice and 
consequent delayed cleavage of the nutrients contained in these food 
particles. The observed difference of digestibility between the pea- 
nut, fed as the whole nut and masticated, and peanut butter indicates 
the effect which texture may have on the ultimate fate of the food. 
In the case of nuts fed whole, macroscopic examination of the feces 
revealed particles of the insufficiently chewed nut. This was especially 
noticeable in experiments on a dog. It must be pointed out, however, 
that the dog is not an ideal experimental animal where foods of the 
texture of nuts are used. This animal bolts his food; and even the 
preliminary passage of the nut through a meat-chopper, as was the 
case in all these experiments, is an incomplete simulation of mastication. 
Further, the dog secretes no salivary amylase, a factor to be considered 
in experiments where starch utilization is the issue. 

When Jaffa fed nuts ground up to a paste in his highly restricted 
dietaries they were unappetizing in this form to the subject ; low utiliza- 
tion resulted. In a ration such as we employed, however, with sufl&cient 
adjuncts to permit mixing the paste with other foods, the paste was no 
less easy to eat than the whole nut. 

That cooking causes any marked change in the digestibility of the 
protein-rich nuts is doubtful. Certainly in the case of the almond as 
used in our experiments the thoroughly roasted nuts show no advantage 
or disadvantage over the boiled or raw product. No significant dif- 
ference appears between the peanut butter made from the roasted nut 
and that made from the boiled nut. 

The raw almond appears to be as completely utilized as the thor- 
oughly steamed nut. Some cooking undoubtedly is necessary in the 
case of the chestnut with its carbohydrate packed away in starch grains. 
In the few chestnut trials the nut was thoroughly boiled and steamed 
previous to feeding. A further study of the factor of cooking, especially 
with the chestnut, would be desirable in view of the numerous ways in 
which it and other nuts are prepared for serving. 



310 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [July 

The pecan, fed either as the whole nut or in the form of a nut paste, 
showed consistently low utilization coefficients in comparison with 
the basal or other nut diets. This is in agreement with the results of 
Jaffa, who found the almond and Brazil nut better utilized than the 
pecan. The pecan is characterized by ha%'ing a higher fat content than 
any of the other fat-rich nuts. Whether this is the determining factor 
in the relative indigestibility of the pecan cannot be stated at present. 

The lichi nut, widely used in the Orient, and becoming more common 
in American markets, is a product whose composition has not been 
studied in detail. In our experiments this nut was not fed in large 
enough quantities to make up a large fraction of the nitrogen or carbo- 
hydrate intake; yet it is significant to note that during the lichi periods 
nitrogen and carbohydrate utilization was below the average. Further 
study is necessary to reveal whether the nutrients present in this nut 
are in a form that can be utilized by the body. 

In the case of the coconut the amounts of protein or carbohydrate 
derived from the nut are too small to permit final conclusions being 
drawn regarding their digestibility but no such lowering of the total 
utiUzation of the intake occurred as in the lichi periods. 

Trial with the English walnut gave a rather low coefhcient. The 
subject was troubled with a mild diarrhea while on the walnut diet. 
During this period only did the inclusion of large amounts of nuts in 
the diet give rise to intestinal disturbances. An irritating elTect of the 
English walnut has been reported by other users of this nut. 

The biological value of the individual proteins has scarcely been 
investigated. Osborne and Mendel (1911) maintained white rats 
satisfactorily on excelsin, the globulin of the Brazil nut, as the only 
source of protein in the diet. Johns and Jones (1917) point out that the 
high lysine content of arachin and conarachin, the proteins of the pea- 
nut, make the peanut protein of value as a supplement to diets whose 
protein is low in lysine. Hoobler (1917) in a study of the diets that 
give a maximum jield of milk in lactating mothers found that the nut 
proteins are equal to animal proteins and superior to other vegetable 
proteins as sources for the elaboration of milk. 

The results of our metabolism experiments emphasize what has 
been pre\dously pointed out by Jaffa and other investigators. Nuts 
are valuable foods. If eaten properly and used in the diet as eggs, 
meats, and other foods rich in protein are used, the evidence points to 
a physiological value on a par with that of more common staple articles 
of the diet. 



1918] AN EXPERIMENT IN TEACHING CITIZENSHIP 311 

BIBLIOGRAPHY 

Albu, 1901. Zeit. Klin. Med., 43, p. 75. 

Atwater and Bryant, 1899. Storrs (Conn.) Agr. Exper. Sta. Report. 

Holmes, 1918. U. S. Dept. Agr. Bui., No. 630. 

Hoobler, 1917. Jour. Amer. Med. Assn., 69, p. 421. 

Ja£Fa, 1901. U. S. Dept. Agr., Office of Exper. Sta. Bui., No. 107; 1903, No. 132; 1910, No. 

332. 
Johns and Jones, 1917. Jour. Biol. Chem., 30, p. 3i. 
Lang\vorthy and Holmes, 1917. U. S. Dept. .-Vgr., Bui., no. 505. 
Merrill, 1906. Maine Agr. Exper. Sta. Bui., no. 131, p. 146. 
Niles, 1909. Georgia State Bd. of Entomology Bui., no. 30, p. 12. 
Osborne and Mendel, 1911. Carnegie Inst. Publ., no. 156, ii. 
Rumpf and Schumm, 1899. Zeit. Biol., 39, p. 153. 
Saiki, 1906. Jour. Biol. Chem., 2, p. 251. 
Street, 1916. Modern Hospital, 6, p. 106. 
Woods and Merrill, 1899. Maine Agr. Exper. Sta. Bui., no. 54. 



AN EXPERIMENT IN TEACHING CITIZENSHIP 

ELSIE M. ROUTH 
Critic in Home Economics, Haines Practice School, Chicago Normal College 

Any system of education which is not fluid enough to meet the ever 
changing demands of a community, has failed to accomplish its ulti- 
mate usefulness. Particularly is this true in a crisis where failure to 
meet individual obligations in citizenship is more often due to lack of 
knowledge than to lack of desire. 

The necessary shifting of emphasis upon the conservation of various 
foodstuffs has created a situation difficult of adjustment to those accus- 
tomed to the study of dietetics; to women who scarcely understand 
even the English words used in the printed directions the situation has 
in it the element of tragedy. 

With an idea of relieving this distress, in July, 1917, the Chicago 
Board of Education passed a resolution to the effect that whenever 
twenty or more adults desired instruction in any subject which would 
increase their value in citizenship, a school would be opened and a 
trained teacher provided. During the summer and autumn twelve 
classes in the canning and drying of fruits and vegetables were con- 
ducted. The wheat shortage of the early winter created a new demand 
— the making of good bread from flours other than wheat. This article 
purposes to relate how one class is attempting to meet the need. 



312 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [July 

The Haines Practice School is situated in one of the most cosmopolitan 
districts in Chicago. The two square blocks nearest the school were 
reported by the last census to be the most populous in the city, con- 
taining about 5000 people. A large percentage of the adults are of 
Italian, Sicilian, Lithuanian, Croatian, and Dalmatian birth. To the 
women of southern Europe the uses of oatmeal and corruneal are almost 
unknown. Hence, the flour ruling of the Food Administration as inter- 
preted by the local retailer worked a real hardship. Children in the 
domestic science classes of the school reported that their mothers were 
forced to buy "club offers" of undesirable goods in order to obtain white 
flour and sugar. These budgets often contained cheap pickles, catsups, 
and other unsalable canned goods. Others reported being forced to 
buy 100 pounds of rice or potato flour. Either through the ignorance or 
desire for gain on the part of the retail grocer no choice of, or division 
into different kind of cereals was allowed. Sometimes several flours 
were mixed together and sold as "black flour" which was very much 
disliked. All this was, of course, far from the interpretation intended 
by the Food Commission, whose great desire has been from the first, 
to protect the home consumer. 

One morning in January an Itahan woman with a shawl over her head 
walked into the principal's office. She brought with her a little girl of 
seven to act as interpreter. She showed a piece of dark, heavy, utterly 
uneatable baked dough. This she declared was the best bread she 
could make with "black flour." Her husband, she explained through 
the chfld, was "mad" and she had 50 pounds of this flour at home; 
what should she do? The principal sent for the domestic science teacher 
who took the woman into the school kitchen. There after sending for 
some of the same flour, the teacher with the aid of a fourteen year old 
girl in the class who spoke Italian, showed her how to make good bread. 

This incident gave the impetus to the forming of a class of adults in 
war cooking. The first lesson was announced in every room in the 
school; notices were printed by the boys of the printing class in both 
English and Italian. The visiting teacher, who had found one woman 
sifting graham flour into every available dish-pan and kettle in the 
house while the children played on the floor with the bran, announced 
the class in each home which she visited. About forty women came. 

The lesson was largely demonstration. Oatmeal bread was made 
and served with butterine and coffee. The making of a sponge with 
1 cup white flour, 1 cup luke warm water, 1 cake of yeast (raised one 



1918] AN EXPERIMENT IN TEACHING CITIZENSHIP 313 

hour), was emphasized. The sponge bread was mixed in front of the 
class and taken home to be finished by one of the women. Previously 
baked bread was served. An Italian lawyer, a resident of the neighbor- 
hood, repeated the teacher's lecture and gave an address. Much 
enthusiasm on the part of the women was shown. The next morning a 
woman who had been forced to buy 100 pounds of rice flour at 12 cents 
a pound brought a pan full of it to school and asked to be shown how to 
use it. When she carried home four big loaves of light bread, she wept 
over the teacher's hand and exclaimed "Si, Si, when you only know." 

The second lesson presented entire barley muffins made with baking 
powder and egg. Emphasis was put upon the need for the presence of 
either eggs or some white flour to obtain the stretching power necessary 
to resist the force of the gas in both yeast and baking powder, thus 
obtaining a hght bread. An exhibit was shown of twelve different 
kinds of flours priced and arranged in the order of their protein value. 
An eighth grade girl acted as interpreter. The third lesson demon- 
strated barley bread with yeast; as before emphasis was put upon mak- 
ing a white flour sponge first. The exhibit showed a model breakfast 
for children. Sandwiches of barley-bread and peanut butter were 
served. The principal of the school gave a short address. Most of the 
women understand English although few speak it. Many expressions 
of a desire to help the war situation were uttered, some in English and 
some in Italian. 

The fourth lesson, given on the Wednesday before Easter, was, by the 
request of the class, barley coffee cake, and hot cross buns made from 
the same dough. The basis of the dough was the standard one-egg 
cake recipe, using one-third barley flour, and substituting one recipe of 
the sponge made as above for the milk and baking powder. Enough 
equally divided barley and white flour were added to make a rather soft 
dough. Hot cross buns and coffee were served. An address on coopera- 
tion between home and school was given by an Italian woman, the wife 
of an Italian doctor. An exhibit of a proper dinner for children was 
shown, and by courtesy of the State Council for National Defense 
Caroline Hunt's pamphlet was given to each member of the class. 
Printed recipes in both languages were distributed. The lessons in- 
clude meat substitutes, egg cooking, milk, and general child feeding. 

Much of the success of the undertaking is due to the hearty coopera- 
tion of the Supervisor of Household Arts, and to the printing teachers, 
the visiting teachers, and the principal of the school. 



314 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [July 

THE PATRIOTIC POTATO 

SARAH ELIZABETH BOWER 

New York Public Schools 

In the Riverside School, New York City, the potato came into its 
own during the early days of March. 

Nothing could have been finer than the way in which the principal, 
heads of departments, eighty teachers, and three thousand pupils 
responded to the in\'itation of the Domestic Science teachers to par- 
ticipate in a two weeks' potato drive. 

The food end of the campaign was necessarily carried on by the 
Domestic Science teachers in the seventh and eighth grades. Potatoes 
were boiled, baked, mashed, warmed over, cooked with cheese, milk 
and eggs, to suit every taste. Some classes cooked in family portions 
and sold the product in the school lunch room. That the idea really 
"got over" was well shown here. On Tuesday ten portions were unsold. 
On Friday every portion was sold within five minutes and the children 
were clamoring for more. Marketing, care, food value, and use as a 
substitute for wheat were all duly emphasized. 

But the most effective correlation came in grades below the seventh. 
When history proved the potato to be a 100 per cent native American 
some surprise was created. It was also discovered that this humble 
and plebeian vegetable is not only a true democrat, but has become an 
international as well. 

The accompanying suggestions in arithmetic were sent by the head 
of the department to each teacher, and the problems used sent back to 
her after being worked by children in their arithmetic periods. The 
ingenious teacher who applied the savings accruing from substituting 
potatoes for wheat bread, reported that as a result of the enthusiasm 
aroused during the drive, the children contributed a dollar in one week 
to the Junior Red Cross in place of a few cents the week before. Each 
child in that class took the arithmetic paper home to urge his parents to 
spread the news of the potato drive to the neighbors. 

SUGGESTIONS OFFERED BY HEAD OF DEPARTMENT 

Sixth Year. Percentage' — food elements, water elements, etc.; denomi- 
nate units; commission examples. 

' For percentage of various constituents in potatoes, see Cornell Leaflet, Sept., 1917. 



1918] THE PATRIOTIC POTATO 315 

Fifth Year. Denominate units; farmers' profits; part of potato actual food. 

Fourth Year. Denominate units; cost and selling price of potato — gain 
(two operations). 

Third Year. Quarts of potatoes in a peck, etc.; cost of quart, peck, bushel; 
pounds of potatoes in bushel, in peck. 

Second Year. Cost of so many quarts of potatoes. 

Problems — Grade 1 

For lunch yesterday Julia ate 2 potatoes, and for supper 1 potato. Tell 
me how many potatoes Julia ate yesterday. 

A grocer sells 2 baskets of potatoes to one customer, and 4 baskets to 
another customer. How many baskets were sold? 

Last night my sister ate 3 potatoes, and I ate 1. How many did both eat? 

One farmer digs up 3 barrels of potatoes, and another farmer digs up 2 
barrels. How many barrels have they? 

John likes potatoes; he ate 4 potatoes, but Ethel ate only 1. How many 
potatoes did mother give to John and Ethel? 

Grade 2 

Bought 5 lbs. of potatoes on Monday, 3 lbs. on Wednesday, 7 lbs. on Friday. 
How many lbs. did I buy altogether? 

Bought a 12 cent bag of potatoes; gave the man 15 cents. Change? 

One lb. of potatoes cost 3 cents. Cost of 7 lbs.? 

After spending 8 cents for potatoes, I had 2 cents change. How much did 
I have at first? 

Mary and John had a garden. Mary dug 3 quarts of potatoes from her 
garden and John dug 5 quarts. How many quarts did they dig together? 

Mrs. Smith bought 7 quarts of potatoes; she cooked 4 quarts. How many 
quarts had she left? 

Mary bought altogether 9 quarts of potatoes; 5 quarts were sweet pota- 
toes. How many were white? 

Mrs. Jones had 7 children. She baked a potato for each. How many did 
she bake? 

Grade 3 

If 12 lbs. potatoes cost 48 cents, how much will 1 lb. cost? 

I have 1 peck potatoes. How many quarts have I? 

I had a quarter and spent one-fifth for 1 quart potatoes. How much did 
I spend? 

There are 462 potatoes in 3 bags. How many are there in 1 bag? 

I had fifty cents and spent nine cents of it for potatoes. How much money 
had I left? 



316 THE JOTJRNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [July 

Grade 4 

Mrs. Brown cooked 27 potatoes for dinner. Her family ate f of them. 
The remainder she fried for supper. How many did she fry? 

A grocer sold 37 lbs. of potatoes one day and 46 lbs. another day. How 
many did he sell? 

I paid 13 cents for potatoes. How much change did I get from half a doUar? 

John ate 2§ potatoes and his brother ate 1|. How many did both eat? 
How many slices of bread did they save if 1 potato is equal to one slice? 

A farmer had 90 bags of potatoes. He sold 39; bags. How many left? 

A grocer sold 37 | lbs. of potatoes to one customer, 17| lbs. to another, and 
9j lbs. to another. How many lbs. sold? 

A man bought 84 bags of potatoes at $1.25 a bag. If he sold them for 
$126.00 how much did he make? 

Grade 5 

A farmer raised 250 bu. of potatoes on one field; 391.52 bu. on another; 
815.7 bu. on a third, and 587.031 bu. on a fourth. How many bu. did he raise? 

A grocer buys 32.5 bu. of potatoes at $1.25 per bu. Find the value. 

32f bu. of potatoes were divided equally among 16 families. How many 
did each receive? 

How many paper bags will be required to hold 96 potatoes if each bag 
holds one dozen? 

A man raised 424 bu. of potatoes and sold | of them. How many left? 

How many quarts of potatoes can be sold from a bag containing 13 pecks? 

How many loaves of bread would a family of 5 save in 2 weeks if each 
member ate a potato at lunch and dinner instead of a slice of bread, allow- 
ing 16 slices to a loaf? 8f loaves. 

How many lbs. of flour would that same family save in those 2 weeks, allow- 
ing 3j lbs. of flour to 3 loaves of bread? 

i of i X ¥ = lOjf lbs. 
How many lbs. of flour would be released for our soldiers and sailors and 
allies if the 20 million families in the U. S. were patriotic and loyal enough 
to do this? 

W X 20 million = 204i million lbs. 

Potatoes are 30 for 25 cents. What would it cost that same family for 
each member to substitute a potato for a roll at breakfast for 1 week? 

7 X 5 X If^ = 29 J cents 

What would rolls cost for one week? 7X5 = 35i 

How much money would that same family save in 2 weeks by being patri- 
otic and substituting the potatoes for the rolls? 

2 (35 j5 - 29i) = nU 



1918] THE PATRIOTIC POTATO 317 

If the 20 million families in the U. S. did this and saved llf cf each and gave 
the money to the Red Cross, how much money would the Red Cross receive? 

Suppose h was given to Red Cross and J used to buy thrift stamps; how 
many thrift stamps would U. S. sell? How much would Red Cross receive? 

Suppose war saving certificates were purchased with § of this money in 
March; how many would the U. S. sell? 

Grade 6 

Potatoes contain about 18 % of starch. How much starch can be obtained 
from 225 bushels of potatoes, each bushel weighing 60 lbs.? 

An agent sold 350 bushels of potatoes at $1.80 per bushel and charged 
11% commission. How much was returned to the owner after paying S5.00 
storage? 

An agent received 821.00 commission for selling 120 barrels of potatoes at 
$7.00 per barrel. Find the rate of commission. 

A load of potatoes weighing 600 lbs. yielded 108 lbs. of starch. What per 
cent of starch was obtained? 

What wiU 9 bushels of potatoes cost at 7 cents per quart? 

English, including spelling and writing, proved a fertile field for the 
raising of patriotic ideas as the compositions in grades from the first 
through the sixth show. The botany, historj', and geography of the 
potato were not neglected. 

COMPOSITIONS — GRADES 2 tO 6 

I am a little brown potato. I have come to beg you to cook me, to eat 
me, and to like me. In this way you can save wheat and so win the war. 

Nancy Pepe, 2B 

Save the meat! Save the wheat! For dinner eat — potatoes! 

Sydney Gelfond, 2B 

Potatoes are cheap. Help to win the war. Eat potatoes and save wheat. 

Gilbert Dunn, 2B 

Potatoes are plentiful and cheap. They are healthy and will nourish me 
as well as wheat bread. In any of the many ways of cooking they taste fine. 
I want potatoes, not wheat bread, to help our Soldiers and Allies. 

Pauline Sulton, 3B 



318 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [July 

Many years ago white people did not know about the potato. The Indians 
of South America taught them it was good food. Now nearly everyone 
except the Chinese grow potatoes and eat them. We should eat more pota- 
toes to save wheat for the soldiers. 

Harold Bowens, 3B 

We are saving wheat to win the war. We are saving wheat by eating 
plenty of potatoes. We should eat plenty of potatoes because they are 
cheap. Potatoes are good for us because they contain mineral substance, 
water and starch. I am going to save my share of wheat by eating plenty 
of potatoes. 

Nelly Cassullo, 4 A 

I am a potato. My skin is yellow. My flesh inside is white. I grow 
underground of the roots of the plant. I contain starch, water, and iron. 
I am a wholesome food. I can be boiled, baked, mashed, or fried. Eat me 
and save wheat for our soldiers. 

James Pugh, 4A 

I am pure white inside. I have a brown jacket and grow under the ground. 
On my body I have little scars called eyes. If I am planted in a mild or warm 
dark place I will sprout. When I am ripe my leaves decay. Then the farmer 
knows when I am ripe. A true Patriot will eat me and help win the war by 
saving wheat bread. 

Cecilia Gribben, 4B 

The potato is a very healthy vegetable and was first heard of in the New 
World. The people of Europe did not appreciate the potato at first but 
used it as food for pigs and cattle and sometimes used it for the poor people. 

In the olden times the Egyptians, the Greeks, and Romans did not know 
what the potato was until about the fourteenth century. Sir Walter Raleigh 
carried the first specimen to Queen Isabella. The potato was planted in her 
flower garden as a curiosity. 

The potato is an odd vegetable. It is a tuber and grows under the ground. 
It is grown all over the world. Germany grows one-fourth of all planted. 
Potatoes are nourishing food. We must eat more potatoes to save wheat 
and help win the war. 

Zenia Vassiliade, 5B 

The potato was first found by white men; it is an American plant. Sir 
Francis Drake and Sir Walter Raleigh both found it in America. They were 
trying to find a place for it to grow. When they took it to Ireland they 



1918] THE PATRIOTIC POTATO 319 

found it would grow there good. The potato is a food plant and not grown 
by seeds. It is not so good to eat alone, but with richer food. We should 
now try to eat less wheat and a lot of potatoes to help win the war. 

Frances Farrell, 5B 

We have potato week to make us think of those who are fighting for our 
benefit. We may not be able to send potatoes but we can send wheat, corn, 
and other cereals. In our school auditorium we have a sign that says, "Eat 
more potatoes and save wheat." 

The food value of the potatoes are water, starch, and iron. The potato 
grows very quickly if the potato is planted, but if the seed is planted it takes 
one year for the little one and if you plant that you will get an ordinary 
potato the next year. It is planted about one-half a foot below the ground. 
The part we eat is the thickened stem which is called the tuber. It grows 
best in a temperate climate and most any soil, but best in sandy soil. The 
amount raised in the United States is second to the amount of cereal produced. 
The best known varieties are the Early Rose and the Burbank. 

The people of South America were the first to raise potatoes. When the 
Spanish conquered Peru they found potatoes that the Aztecs had planted and 
took them back to Europe. The Burbank was first planted from a seed. 
Potatoes are the only ones of their family that are not poisonous and fit to 
eat. It belongs to the Night Shade. The most important use of the potato 
is as food and starch for the clothes and for liquor which we are trying so 
hard to get rid of. Let us be loyal citizens and do "our bit" to feed our boys. 

Harlan Wooley, 6B 

outline for nature study. grades 5 and 6 

Family: Nightshade (many members of this family poisonous). 

Part of plant: Thickened stem, growing under ground — called tuber. 

Use to plant: The starch, mineral matter and water provide nourishment 
for the new plant until it can send its roots down into the soil. 

How planted: From piece of old potato containing at least one bud or eye. 
New varieties are raised from seeds. The best known varieties are Early 
Rose and Burbank. (Mr. Luther Burbank, when a school boy, raised the 
latter from the seeds of Early Rose.) 

Value as a crop: It will grow on almost any kind of soil. It will grow in 
any country having a temperate climate. If grown from eyes, it will yield a 
crop the first year. It furnishes an excellent food for man and animals. 
In the United States the potato crop is next in size to the cereal crop. Beside 
being used as a food, it is manufactured into starch and alcohol. 

Chemical composition: Mineral matter — Cut thin slice and hold to light; 
faint color under skin shows one mineral substance. Starch — Grate potato, 



320 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [July 

press through cloth. Allow sediment to settle from liquid, pour off liquid 
and test sediment with iodine. Blue color indicates starch. 

For other interesting information: "How the World is Fed," Carpenter. 
Cornell Leaflets, Sept. 1912, and Sept. 1917. 

Though unable to draft sewing and music in the service of the potato, 
art came gallantly to the front, for the drawing course provides for the 
drawing of some vegetable in each grade.- 

Finally the potato reached the public distinction of an Auditorium 
exercise. A number of children gave a reading, telling interesting facts 
about the potato. Another group recited the enclosed recitation, at 
the end of which two girls held aloft the big poster (displayed in the 
Auditorium during the entire drive) flanked on either side by an Ameri- 
can flag, urging every one to 

Eat 
Potatoes 

AND 

Save Wheat 

exercise given in assembly during the potato drive by 5b class 
{Each child holds up letter as she recites) 

P Stands for patriot, Who's doing his share 

By eating potatoes. To send wheat "over there." 
Stands for oven. Exceedingly hot. 

To bake our potatoes, "Please give me a lot." 
T Stands for table. On which they are placed. 

They make my mouth water, "Do give me a taste." 
A Stands for American, If you really are one 

You'll eat lots of potatoes. And just think it's fun. 
T Stands for the trenches. Where our soldiers now stand, 

Send them plenty of wheat. And they'll save our dear land. 
O Stands for ocean, Across which they must go, 

We must save a great deal. To help beat the foe. 
E Stands for everyone. Little and great. 

Let each do his share now, Before it's too late. 
S Stands for soldiers, So big and so brave. 

Eat potatoes for your share. See how much wheat you can save. 

^ A set of drawings is in the Journal Oflice and will gladly be loaned to anyone 
interested. 



STUDENT CONTRIBUTIONS 

A STUDY OF GINGHAMS 

RUBY MCTAVISH 
Textile Chemistry Laboratories, loiva State College 

During a recent series of lectures here, a number of questions came 
to us from out in the state concerning the relative shrinkage and wear- 
ing qualities of different priced ginghams. With a view to finding 
answers to some of these, the following short study was undertaken in 
connection with the above work on domestics. The materials chosen 
were: (1) group of odd plaids varying in price from 12| to 35 cents; 
(2) a group of small checked pieces priced from 10 to 25 cents; (3) two 
plain blue pieces, 15 and 25 cents, respectively, and one blue shirting 
at 15 cents. These ginghams were purchased in February and were 
characteristic of the materials used for cliildren's school dresses, house 
dresses, and apron materials whose shrinkage and wearing qualities are 
so important. 

The same tests were carried out as are outhned in The Study of 
White Goods in the January Journal, the same methods being used 
with the exception of the shrinkage. In this case the materials were all 
entered at 60°C., one set being removed at the end of an hour and the 
other after remaining immersed all night. This was done partly be- 
cause no housewife would place ginghams in boiling water and partly 
because we were interested in the difference which this factor might 
cause. 

CONCLUSIONS 

Without e.xception the number of threads per inch both warp and 
weft increased with the price of the material in all three groups. The 
shrinkage of the warp decreased with the price of the material but the 
results for the weft did not follow the prices. In most cases the shrink- 
age of the weft was not large enough to be considered in making a dress, 
but the shrinkage of the warp would have to be allowed for. The 
material which was left in for one hour showed a little more shrinkage 
than that which remained over night. The breaking strength did not 

321 



322 



THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS 



[July 



increase with the price of the material. No doubt this was due to the 
irregularities of the bleaching and dyeing methods employed in its 
manufacture. In other words there are a number of conditions which 
must be taken into consideration when studying colored dress materials 
such as ginghams which do not arise when we are dealing with domes- 
tics. From these results we seem justified in concluding that the mmi- 
ber of threads per inch has no direct bearing on the wearing qualities of 
ginghams but does influence the shrinkage. The price asked for the 
material is usually directly proportional to the number of threads per 
inch and the best the purchaser can do is to judge the value of her pur- 
chase by the thread count and the suitability of the piece to her purpose. 







Comparison of Materials 








WIDTH 


THREAD COUNT 


SHRI.KAOE (PER C.KT) 


BREAKING 


PRICE 


One hour in water 


All night in water 


STRENGTH' 




Warp 1 Weft 


Warp 1 Weft 


Warp 1 Weft 


Warp 1 Weft 





inches 


















$0.12i 


26i 


69.0 


48.0 


4.8 


1.4 


4.2 


1.8 


35.5 


19.8 


.19 


32 


75.0 


59.0 


4.4 


3,8 


4.5 


3 


36.2 


21.6 


.35 


31 


82.8 


76.5 


2.4 


2.45 


2 


2.1 


30.5 


25.6 



Checks 



.10 


27 


55.3 


45.3 


6 


2.7 


5.5 


2,4 


27 


23.1 


.12i 


27 


69.5 


48.0 


4.9 


0.8 


4.9 


0,4 


36.6 


18.2 


.15 


27 


73.0 


68.0 


4.2 


3,5 


3,7 


i.i 


34.5 


25.4 


.25 


27 


80.6 


80.6 


3.9 


3.9 


2 9 


2.5 


27.3 


25.4 



.15 


27 


71.5 


61 


5.2 


0.5 


4.3 


0.3 


32.4 


25.6 


.25 


31 


82.0 


74 


4.5 


3 


3.29 


2.83 


34.3 


24 



1.48 45.13 21.34 



' For breaking strength an average was taken of 10 good results from a calibrated machine. 



FOR THE HOMEMAKER 

A CONSIDERATION OF THE CANNING PROBLEM 

ELIZABETH F. GENXTNG 
Simmons College, Boston 

In these days of food conservation the canning of fruits and vege- 
tables is occupying the attention of the press and the housewife. Every 
publication which deals with home problems, every periodical of any 
kind which reaches the household has devoted a page or a column to 
the canning problems. In view of this extensive publicity it has been 
noted with interest that many of the methods suggested and many of 
the articles written seem to have little if any scientific basis. 

The successful preservation of any organic material is based on the 
science of bacteriology. A little over fifty years ago, a French scientist 
proved, after a long series of experiments, that all decay or putrefaction 
of organic matter was due to the activities of minute organisms. Since 
this discovery there has been much research and investigation by scien- 
tists in every country, and the facts which Louis Pasteur discovered have 
been repeatedly proved true. 

It has been found that if all growth of microorganisms can be checked, 
or those organisms killed, that material will keep indefinitely. The 
problem of canning rests primarily on this basis: that all microorganisms 
on the food placed in the can must be destroyed, or their growth checked 
to such an extent that they will not cause trouble. There are various 
ways by which bacteria may be killed but the most practical for the 
purpose we are considering seems to be the application of heat. 

There are three kinds of organisms which cause trouble in canned 
food, namely, molds, yeasts, and bacteria. Let us consider each briefly 
in order that we may learn the best methods of killing each. 

Molds are familiar to the ordinary observer, for they grow on ahnost 
any organic matter and produce a fuzzy appearance. They may be 
of various colors, — green, yellow, black, or a grayish white. They 
reproduce and multiply by means of spores which grow on specialized 

323 



324 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [July 

fruiting bodies; one plant producing millions of these tiny spores which 
float about in the air and ahght and grow wherever conditions are favor- 
able. These spores are quite easily killed by heat and a few minutes 
boiling will effectually destroy them. Molds prefer for their best 
growth starches or sugar, some moisture, and ordinary room tempera- 
ture. They will not grow unless air is present. They do not injure the 
material on which they grow to any marked extent for some time, but 
they gradually break down the tissues and render the material soft, and 
unfit for consiunption. 

Yeasts are also familiar to the housewife for they are the principal 
factor in bread making, but aside from their usefulness in this line they 
often cause trouble in food materials in which they may be present. 
They are tiny, one-celled plants which reproduce and multiply usually 
by buds which grow on the mother cell. These yeast plants are found 
on all fruits and cause the fermentation of the juice which results in the 
production of alcohol. They prefer for their best growth sugar or 
starch, plenty of moisture, and a temperature a little higher than that 
of an ordinary room. They do not grow without air except when cer- 
tain sugars are present from which they can manufacture oxygen. 
The chief trouble caused by these organisms is the fermentation of the 
starch or sugar which results in the production of alcohol and a gas 
known as carbon dioxide. They are readily killed by a few minutes 
boiling and the problem of controlling them is a comparatively easy one. 

Bacteria belong to the smallest class of microorganisms and can only 
be seen through the highest power of the microscope. They exist in 
countless milUons in nature and produce various changes in organic 
material. They reproduce and multiply by a simple cell division, one 
cell dividing into two cells and each of these in turn into two more. 
When conditions are unfavorable for the growth and multiplication of 
the cell, certain kinds of bacteria have the power of concentratmg the 
cell contents into one part of the cell and surrounding this portion of 
the cell with a hard coat which is very resistant to heat, drying, or chem- 
icals. This spore, unlike that of the yeast or mold, is not for the purpose 
of multiplication but merely to tide the organism over an unfavorable 
period. When conditions become favorable an ordinary cell known as 
the vegetative form develops from this spore. Bacteria generally require 
for their best growth surroundings with a small amount of protein and 
sugar or starch, and plenty of moisture. Certain forms live only in the 
presence of air; other forms live only in the absence of air; still others 



1918] A CONSIDERATION OF THE CANNING PROBLEM 325 

are able to adapt themselves to either condition. Bacteria ferment 
sugars and break down tissues causing decay. 

Ejfect of sugar and heat on Ihe groivth of bacteria. Microorganisms 
differ in the effect of sugar on their growth. Molds will grow quite 
readily on foods low in sugar and also on materials containing a high 
percentage of sugar, such as jellies or preserves. Yeasts, as a rule, are 
less liable to grow in foods that contain a large amount of sugar, but 
there are varieties which grow in jellies, syriips, and even molasses. 
The growth of bacteria, on the other hand, is prevented by high 
concentrations of sugar, though a small amount may in many cases 
encourage it. 

Bacteria are not so easily disposed of as their cousins the yeasts and 
molds, for, although the vegetative cells are easily killed by heating, 
the forms which have the power of producing spores are very resistant 
to heating and drying. Certain spore forms have been found to resist 
boiling for several hours. It is a more difficult problem to destroy them 
than other forms of microorganisms. It is this problem that we shall 
deal with chiefly in the remainder of this discussion. 

In considering the problem of canning we shall take up the problem 
only as it relates to the preservation of fruits and vegetables. 

Canning fruit. In the preservation of fruit by canning, we have to 
remember that the principal kinds of microorganisms found on fruit are 
wild yeast and a few bacteria. Since yeasts are easily killed by heating, 
these organisms do not cause trouble except in rare instances when a 
few cells escape the vigilance of the housewife and ferment the fruit, 
causing the can to burst if not discovered in time. Bacteria are also 
found on fruit but the acidity of the fruit, the high concentration of 
sugar used in the preservation of the fruit in addition to the heating 
process, all combine to prevent the growth of the bacterial cell. Fruit 
is therefore comparatively easy to preserve if the housewife is careful 
to observe the following rules: 

1 . Select only sound fruit well matured but not over-ripe. 

2. Put it, while fresh, into clean, sterile cans. 

3. Select cans that have good seals and use only new rubbers. 

4. Heat the fruit in the cans in the water bath for a few minutes, 
remove, seal, and cool. Do not remove cover after taking cans from 
water bath. 

5. Store in a cool dark place. 



326 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [July 

Canning vegetables. The preservation of vegetables is much more 
difficult for several reasons. In the first place the vegetables grow much 
nearer the ground than most fruits and therefore have a large number 
of soil bacteria on them. These soil bacteria often form very resistant 
spores. Vegetables are not preserved in sugar or any agent that will 
check the growth of bacteria; so we must depend on heating alone to 
kill the bacteria present. 

The safest way to can vegetables is to cook them in a pressure cooker. 
This cooker is so constructed that it is possible to raise the temperature 
of the interior of the can to several degrees above the boiling point and 
thus kill the resistant spores. Unfortunately pressure cookers are 
expensive for the ordinary housewife who wishes to preserve only a 
few surplus vegetables and may have only a few cans of each. She 
must resort, therefore, to the water bath method. There is no sure 
way to preserve certain vegetables by cooking them in a water bath, 
but some ways are safer than others. It must be distinctly understood 
that in all water bath methods there is a certain measure of risk, but the 
risk is greater in some methods than in others. 

Methods compared. This discussion is not intended as a criticism of 
any method or methods but it is intended to place all the information 
available at the disposal of the housewife in order that she may be 
able to choose the method she prefers with full knowledge of the possi- 
bility of spoilage or other troubles it may envolve. 

Bacterial spores, as stated above, are very resistant to heat. They 
may be boiled for some time without lessening to any marked degree 
their vitality, so that when conditions are more favorable they will 
produce growing cells. Most vegetables allow the heat to penetrate 
very slowly to the center of the can and probably this never reaches 
the temperature of the water bath. The more compact the vegetable 
the lower the temperature will be in the center of the can. Cooking 
vegetables for several hours continuously in the cans will kill all vege- 
tative forms of bacteria and may kill some spore forms but there is 
always the risk that some of the resistant ones may be left, and that 
these will find conditions favorable for growth and cause trouble after 
the material has stood awhile. 

The method used in the bacteriological laboratories to sterilize cul- 
ture media which cannot be subjected to high temperatures under pres- 
sure is what is known as the fractional or intermittent method. This is 
founded on the theory that after heating the spores are somewhat 



1918] A CONSIDERATION OF THE CANNING PROBLEM 327 

weakened and, in favorable surroundings of food, moisture, and tem- 
perature, will quickly develop into vegetative cells. It has been found 
that in twenty-four hours this process will have developed the vegeta- 
tive forms of most of the spores so that another heating at boiling tem- 
perature will kill most of the bacteria present and that a possibility of 
growth is lessened by a third heating at the end of another twenty-four 
hours. The length of the heating period is determined largely by the 
kind of material, the temperature at which it is heated, and the kind 
of heat applied. 

The preservation of vegetables by this method, therefore, carries with 
it a certain measure of scientific proof — although it has been found that 
some vegetables such as greens are not always sure to be sterile after this 
treatment but a probable lesser percentage of spoilage in cans treated in 
this manner has lead the writer to advocate it as safer than the con- 
tinuous process. 

Much depends on the age and freshness of the vegetables. Young 
and tender vegetables allow the penetration of the heat much more 
rapidly and thoroughly than older and tougher material. The same is 
true of fresh vegetables as compared with stale ones. The size of the 
can must also be taken into consideration in counting the time of cook- 
ing, for it will take longer for the center of the can to reach its maximum 
temperature if the can is large. Much depends on the soundness of the 
material; the freedom from decay or disease will materially affect the 
keeping of the material. 

Extent of research. Very little has been done experimentally in the 
field of canning. It is difficult to lay down a set of rules that will 
prove infallible under all conditions and with all workers. It is neces- 
sary that years of work be done on any problem involving scientific 
research before a definite rule or formula may be set down. The prob- 
lem of home canning has scarcely been touched in the bacteriological 
laboratory; therefore, it cannot be said that any method is sure nor is it 
determined what will cause or prevent certain kinds of spoilage. 

Articles which advocate various methods with every degree of assur- 
ance should not be regarded as infallible until they bear the stamp of 
scientific research, or until they can cite actual experimental evidence to 
back up the statements. Therefore, it will be well to bear in mind 
that such articles are written usually by a person who knows Httle about 
the scientific basis of that which he writes and who is only trying to 
encourage the housewife in a time of stress. The housewife should, 



328 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [July 

therefore, choose her method fully ahve to the fact of the possibihty of 
spoilage and she may choose intelligently between the shortest method 
with perhaps a greater possibility of failure or the harder method with 
the smaller chance of failure. 

Necessary precautions. In the preparation of the vegetables for the 
cans there are many steps that have a certain value. The material 
must be clean and free from decay. After the vegetables have been 
washed they are blanched in hot water. This blanching consists in 
boiling or steaming the material a few minutes. The chief value of this 
process is that it removes any objectionable acids or flavors and also 
renders the vegetables more pliable for packing in the cans. It has 
very little if any value from the bacteriological side. No experiments 
have been carried on to test the exact effect it may have on the bacterial 
spores but enough is known of the nature and resisting power of these 
spores to draw the conclusion that this short boihng process does not 
materially affect the spores. 

After the material is removed from the blanching water it is plunged 
for a few seconds into cold water. The reasons given for the process 
vary, but it is generally believed that it sets the color. At least it makes 
the material easier to handle in packing in the cans. It has been 
claimed that this process "shocks the spores," but up to date there is 
no scientific data to back up this assertion, and bacteriologists are a 
bit skeptical about its effect on the spores. It probably has nothing to 
do with the keeping quality of the material. 

When the cans are ready for the water bath they should not stand in 
a warm kitchen before cooking, as the organisms are present in large 
numbers and their activities may cause disagreeable flavors in the food 
material. If it is necessary to leave the cans a short time, it is better 
to keep them cool and not to add the hot water until just before cooking. 

The cooking of the material is also important. Remember that it 
takes a long time for the center of the can to reach its maximum tem- 
perature, and that allowance must be made for the can to heat up. 
Therefore, the period of cooking should never be shortened nor should 
time be counted before the water in the bath boils briskly. It should 
not cease boiling at any time during the cooking period. When the 
cans are removed from the bath they appear to be boiling but this 
bubbling is not actual boiling. It is caused by the difference in pressure 
of the interior of the can and the surrounding air. 



1918] A CONSIDERATION OF THE CANNING PROBLEM 329 

Care of canned goods. When the cans are cooled so they may be 
handled readily, they should be placed in cold water or near a cool 
window in order that they may cool as rapidly as possible to a tempera- 
ture below that which the bacteria require for their best growth. Cook- 
ing the cans in a water bath for a period may not sterilize the material 
but it may weaken the bacteria so that they will not grow unless all 
conditions are favorable. We have the temperature conditions under 
our control and that should be low enough to discourage any kind of 
activity. Therefore, cans stored in a cool place will keep better than 
cans stored in a warm place. The quicker cans are placed in cool 
surroundings the more apt the material will be to keep. The writer 
has proved this quite satisfactorily by keeping cans in an ordinary room 
for several days, then placing them in a bacterial incubator. The cans 
which often showed no sign of spoiling while in the room would spoil in 
a few days as soon as the temperature became right for bacterial growth. 

KINDS OF SPOILAGE 

There is ver\' little data to be had regarding the kinds and causes of 
spoilage in canned foods. Some work has been done on peas and corn 
at the request of commercial carmers during some particularly trying 
time, but the spoilage of canned vegetables is practically an untouched 
field. There are three kinds of spoilage commonly recognized at pres- 
ent: (Ij Fermentation, (2) flat sour, (3) putrefaction. 

Fermentation is the name given to the spoilage which occurs with a 
production of gas. In the commercial world this is known as a "swell," 
because the cans become distended and bulge at the ends. Fruit is 
especially subject to this kind of spoOage owing to the fact that the 
organisms causing fruit to spoil are usually yeasts and they always pro- 
duce gas. Certain bacteria are gas producers, and since they often 
occur on vegetables this kind of spoilage is frequently found in cans of 
vegetables. Probably this spoilage is due to a number of different 
organisms and may be accompanied by other troubles that are lost sight 
of in the interest which the gas affords. Many of these gas formers are 
spore formers, and so such fermentation usually comes from improper 
sterilization. Glass cans are frequently broken or at least the seal is 
loosened by the gas and such spoilage is laid to poor sealing. Since 
these organisms are usually anaerobic, that is, they prefer to live with- 
out air, the conditions in the cans are just what they need and growth 



330 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [Juty 

takes place quite readily. Cans should be examined every few days 
for a month after storing to see if any signs of gas are present. This 
form of spoilage is quite easily recognized by the presence of gas bubbles 
and excess pressure on the cover which loosens the seal. 

Flat sour is the name given to the spoilage which occurs with a pro- 
duction of acid but no gas. In commercial canning the name was given 
to designate those cans which were spoiled but no swelling or bulging 
had occurred to indicate trouble until the cans were opened, when the 
material was found to be sour and unlit for consumption. This spoil- 
age is doubtless due to several different organisms and maybe of various 
kinds. It has never been investigated to any extent and little is known 
of its nature. The writer has isolated spore bearing organisms from 
cans which have soured, and so has come to the conclusion that it is 
due to improper sterilization. In glass cans this trouble can be readily 
recognized in many cases by a milky sediment in the bottom of the 
can; the material becomes slimy and has a sour or acid taste. Certain 
forms, however, do not manifest themselves in this manner and cans 
which have no signs of spoilage will be found to taste sour or disagree- 
able. This is especially true in asparagus and greens. Only a person 
expert in this work can detect spoilage of this kind by observation alone. 
As stated above, no work has been done on this form of spoilage and 
whether it is injurious to eat such material is not known. In the earlier 
stages the flavor does not seem to be badly affected and is often eaten 
by those unfamiliar with this kind of spoilage. This trouble cannot be 
recognized by the condition of the seal for since no gas is produced the 
seal remains unimpaired and cans badly spoiled will be as difhcult to 
open as those which are uninjured. 

Putrefaction is simply decay of the food material in the cans. It 
manifests itself sometimes by the production of vile smelling gases, or 
by the disintegration of the food tissues. This form of spoilage may be 
due to imperfect sterilization but it is more often found in cans which 
are imperfect or where the seal is poor. There is little difficulty in 
recognizing this form of spoilage and the cans are usually in such a 
condition that they are discarded at once. 

Botulism. There has been some agitation recently over the occur- 
rence of Botulism from canned vegetables. While there is a small danger 
from infection of this kind, the number of cases on record is exceedingly 
small compared with the vast numbers who use canned foods. The 
organism causing the trouble is a bacillus which lives on foods rather 



1918] A CONSIDERATION OF THE CANNING PROBLEM 331 

high in protein content. It produces a toxin which is poison, but which 
happily is readily destroyed by a few minutes boiling. The organism 
forms spores which are less resistant than spores usually found in the 
cans. Since the temperature of the water bath is less than in the pres- 
sure cooker, it may be possible that the occurrence of the poison might 
be found more frequently in cans cooked at the boiling point. In any 
case the risk is small and may be entirely obviated by boiling the canned 
article a couple of minutes before eating. It is never advisable to eat 
any article where there is suspicion of spoilage. Flat sour is not neces- 
sarily poisonous but there may be poisons present and it is not safe to 
eat such food. 

THE RELATION OF VEGETABLES TO SPOILAGE 

Here again we are treading on unknown ground. Nothing has been 
worked out in this field as yet, but some observations made on a few 
cans in starting some work on this problem may not be amiss. 

Greens seem to be somewhat difficult to can successfully. They are 
quite subject to flat sour and seem to be harder to sterilize than some 
of the other vegetables. This may be due to two causes; first, they 
grow very near the soil and there may be a higher content of the soil 
and water bacteria on them, and second, they are very pliable after 
they are blanched and may be packed very tightly in the cans, and 
since heat does not penetrate this material very easily it is very probable 
that the center of the can does not heat up to a very high temperature 
and thus the spores remain uninjured and grow as soon as conditions 
permit. It would be well not to pack the cans too tightly and to be 
certain that they are heated thoroughly in the cooking process. Greens 
are more apt to spoil by the continuous process than by the intermittent, 
but even the latter is not sure. The term "greens" is intended to apply 
to such materials as dandelions, spinach, chard, asparagus, and so forth. 

Peas are more difficult to can than is generally supposed. They seem 
to resist heat penetration and the more mature they are the more diffi- 
cult it is for the heat to penetrate to the center of the can. They 
develop both gas fermentation and flat sour. They should never be 
allowed to stand outside of the shell over night before canning as they 
are liable to develop a bad flavor. This has been termed flat sour but is 
probably not a bacterial trouble but due to enzymes present in the peas 
which under these conditions cause bad flavors and injure the texture 



332 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS Lfuly 

of the vegetable. Unless peas are very young and tender it is better to 
cook them intermittently if one wishes to avoid as far as possible the 
possibility of spoilage. 

Beans are not considered so difficult to can as peas by some people, 
but no experiments have been tried to prove this. String beans develop 
flat sour quite as frequently as many other vegetables and care must be 
taken to prevent this. The beans should be young, tender, and free 
from disease. Unless they are very young the intermittent method is 
the safer. Heat probably will penetrate beans more readily than peas 
and thus render sterilization somewhat easier. To insure the conserva- 
tion of all the nutrition possible they should not be cut until after they 
are blanched and cold dipped. 

Corn seems to be very difficult to can successfully. This is due no 
doubt, to the fact that it can be packed very tightly in the cans and that 
heat penetrates the material very slowly. There is also frequently 
found on corn an organism which produces an immense amount of gas 
in a short time. Corn, therefore, is very apt to ferment and burst the 
cans. Corn will also develop flat sour and become spoiled in this way. 
It is very important that this vegetable be as fresh as possible when 
canned and that it should not be allowed to stand more than an hour 
before cooking after it is ready for the can. The gas producing organism 
mentioned above will grow quite readily in the prepared material and 
the housewife often repents of the delay when the cans burst on heating. 
If the weather is very warm it is best to cool the cans down as rapidly 
and as low as possible between the first and second cooking in the inter- 
mittent process. In the opinion of the writer corn should always be 
canned by this process and as an extra precaution, the first cooking 
should be at least one hour and a half. 

Beets do not seem to be so difficult to can successfully as the other 
vegetables we have been considering. They are blanched for a longer 
period and seem to be quite easily sterilized by the single process. This 
may be due to the fact that the heat penetrates more easily, and the 
longer blanching period may weaken the spores. It is probably not due 
to any marked extent to the sugar Ln the beets. Beets develop flat sour 
easily recognized by the change in color from a bright red to a muddy 
brown, with a thick whitish sediment in the bottom of the can. No 
doubt there are other forms of spoilage but the writer has not studied 
them enough to be familiar with them. Both beets and carrots should 
be sterilized by the continuous process. 



1918] A CONSIDERATION OF THE CANNING PROBLEM 333 



There are certain underlying rules and principles that apply to all 
canning and it might be well to mention them in conclusion. The 
covers of the cans should never be removed after the material has been 
cooked in the cans for the required period. Rubbers should be placed 
on the cans before processing and should not be removed unless they 
are injured. If it is necessary to open the cans they should be recooked 
at once for at least thirty minutes. If the water boils out of the can it 
is not necessary as far as the keeping quality is concerned to replace it. 
If the food is sterile it will keep whether it is covered with water or not. 
One may preserve a can half full of material quite as successfully as one 
completely filled, if it is properly sterihzed. The old idea that there 
must be no air in the cans is a fallacy, for if the food is sterile the air is 
also sterile and sterile air cannot cause spoilage. 

Since it is a wise plan not to allow any more bacteria in the cans than 
possible, cans should be sterilized, or at least partially so, before using. 
It is best, therefore, to boil all cans at least fifteen minutes before filling 
them; a longer period will add to the efficiency of the can. The cans 
should be filled while they are hot and if they are removed from the hot 
water before they are used the covers should be placed on them. Can 
rubbers should be placed in hot or boiling water a few minutes before 
using. 

Housewives could aid the experimental work greatly by observations 
which they make in their own kitchens. At present definite information 
as to the success of the various methods of food preservation now being 
used and advocated is meager. If the housewife would make notes of 
the method used, the number of cans treated, the amount of spoilage, 
if any, and the kind of spoilage, and send such information to the county 
agent or the state experiment station, she would be doing a great deal to 
insure future success in the canning problem and to eliminate the possi- 
bility of spoilage. It takes not months but years for the laboratory to 
work out these problems and it involves a great expenditure of time and 
material. Housewives instead of concealing the fact of spoilage should 
take pride in aiding the investigators by sending the much needed 
information. 



EDITORIAL 

The Day's Food in War and Peace. If, as now seems possible, 
the special request of the Food Administration after the next harvest 
will be not so much for substitution of various kinds as for cutting 
down our total consumption in order that we may have a safe reserve, 
it will be even more necessary than it is now for us to know exactly 
what our food requirements are, that we may neither use more than 
■we need nor, in our endeavor to be careful, lessen our efficiency by 
using too little. 

The United States Food Administration, in cooperation with the De- 
partment of Agriculture and the Woman's Committee of the Council 
of National Defense has just issued a series of lessons called "Food in 
War and Peace," giving simple and brief statements of the kind and 
quantity of food needed for health, and of the ways in which changes 
may safely be made so that the requests of the Food Administration for 
saving, substituting, and using the various foods may be intelHgently, 
rather than arbitrarily, obeyed. 

The names of the writers of these papers are all familiar to the readers 
of the Journal. Mr. Hoover has explained the present situation in 
"Food and the War;" Dr. Lusk is the writer of "Food for a Day;" Dr. 
Taylor has told about Wheat, and why we should save it. Other lessons 
have been written by Dr. Langworthy, Miss Hunt, Mr. Brand, Dr. Mc- 
Collum, Dr. Mendel, and Dr. Ruth Wheeler. Miss Ida Tarbell has 
written the introduction to the lessons. 

The lessons were edited by Miss Atwater, of the Department of 
Agriculture, and Mrs. Norton, of the Joxirnal, who have added practical 
suggestions and some recipes. References to government publications 
are given, and a list of lantern slides that may be obtained from the 
United States Food Administration. 

The lessons may be obtained from the Federal Food Administrator 
in each state, as long as the limited free edition lasts. A copy has been 
placed in every library. 

The Southern Home Economics Association will meet at Blue Ridge, 
N. C, August 24-31. Half day sessions will allow time for rest and 
recreation at a delightful mountain resort. For reservations write Mr. 
C. Fletcher Guillian, Blue Ridge, N. C. 
334 



BOOKS AND LITERATURE 



Mechanics of the Household. By E. S. 

Keene. New York: McGraw-Hill Book 

Company, 1918, pp. 391. $2.50. By 

mail of the Journal, $2.65. 

Professor Keene in Mechanics of the 
Household approaches the study of the 
mechanisms, appliances, and physical 
phenomena of the home from a somewhat 
new angle. He states "The scope of the 
work is such as to present, first, the use of 
household mechanical appliances." The 
formal boundaries and the formal statement 
of physics receive only incidental attention. 
In educational circles one hears much about 
the advisability of reversing the old order 
of teaching science from principles first and 
applications later to applications first and 
principles later. 

The subject-matter of this book mil be 
indicated by the chapter headings, — the 
steam heating plant, the hot-water heating 
plant, the hot-air furnace, temperature 
regulation, mmagement of heating plants, 
plumbing, water supply, sewage disposal, 
coal, atmospheric humidity, ventilation, 
gaseou; and liquid fuels, electricity. From 
the point of view of educational reform it 
seem ad\-isable that many science books of 
this type should be written. The recent 
text-books in general science for use in the 
high school contain a wealth of suggestive 
material for such treatment. Mechanics of 
th; Household has been written to meet the 
needs of more advanced students pursuing 
practical science courses. 

The chapter on the steam heating plant 
deals with the following, — heat of vaporiza- 
tion, steam temperature, gag' pressure, 
absolute pressure, two pipe system, sepa- 
rate return system, overhead or drop 
system, water filled rad:. tors, the house 
heating system boiler, boiler trimmings, the 
water column, the steam gage, the safety 
valve, the draft regulator, rules for propor- 
tioning radiators, proportioning the size of 
mains, forms of radiators radiator finish- 



ings, pipe coverings, vapor system of heat- 
ing. This chapter covers thirty-sk pages 
with thirty-one cuts and diagrams including 
a number of sections of radiators, furnaces, 
and a section of a one-pipe steam installation. 

The first eighty-one pages are devoted to 
a discussion of steam, hot-water, and hot-air 
systems, temperature regulation, and man- 
agement of heating plants. .-\ hundred 
pages are devoted to humidity, ventilation, 
and fuels. The book is clearly written and 
well printed. Most of the diagrams are of 
good size and very helpful. 

For purposes of general instruction a 
further elimination of minor technical 
detail may seem advisable to some, but 
those who are acquainted with the prolixity 
of the standard engineering treatises will not 
be too critical in this regard. In explaining 
the plan the author states "It is not 
e.xhaustive, neither does it touch many of 
the secondary topics that might be dis- 
cussed in connection with the various sub- 
jects. It does, however, describe at least 
one representative piece of each type of 
household apparatus that is used in good 
practice." 

The emphasis placed upon gas appliances 
for isolated homes as compared with those 
for the city gas supply renders that treat- 
ment more applicable to rural localities. 
More attention might be f;iven to recent 
improvements in lighting and electrical 
appliances for the home. At the present 
time the gas engine and the automobile 
appear to be more important as household 
necessities han the gasoline gas generator. 
The chapters on water-supply, plumbing, 
and sewage disposal are very sati=;[actory 
as type of clear and illuminating treatment. 
This book is a welcome pioneer in its field 
and it deserves an extensive use in house- 
hold physics classes as well as among inte'li- 
gent housekeepers generally. 

F. F. Good, 
Teachers College, Columbia University. 
335 



336 



THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS 



[July 



The Cost of Food. By Ellen H. Richards, 
Third edition, revised under the direc- 
tion of John F. Norton. New York: 
John Wiley and Sons, 1917, pp. 137. 
$1.00. By mail of the Journal, $1.10. 
All admirers of Mrs. Ellen H. Richards — 
and who of us does not classify under that 
head? — will be delighted to have one of her 
books restored to usefulness. Of the four 
books on cost: — Cost of Shelter, Cost of 
Clothing, Cost of Living, and Cost of Food, 
the last was the one most out of date. 
Although other prices have changed too, 
none other has risen to the extent that the 
price of food has advanced. While at 
present even magazine literature can hardly 
keep pace with our changing conditions, 
this revision uses prices recent enough to 
have meaning for us. 

Professor Norton has worked very skill- 
fully in his revision. The text itself has 
been left almost unchanged except for the 
necessary changes in figures. Looking it 
over, one realizes, perhaps as never before, 
how far-seeing Mrs. Richards was in her 
general statements. .\t the end of the 
book, two chapters have been omitted, — 
one of the Dietarj' Computator from which 
Mrs. Richards hoped much but which in 
practice proved cumbersome, and one on 
Diet for Incipient Tuberculosis. 

The changes in this edition include state- 
ments in regard to vitamines, the correction 
of percentages in food analysis as a result 
of more recent experiments, the new stand- 
ard of calorie requirement for children, 
menus and valuable data on cost more 
up-to-date than that in the old volume, and, 
of course, references to modem authorities, 
and an excellent bibliography. 

Material adding greatly to the value of 
the book is found in such suggestive menus 
as the "Peimy" luncheons on pp. 30-31, 
in Gephart's study of what boys ate in a 
boarding school on pp. 41-^2, the Budget 
Allowance for Food in Public Institutions 
in New York, in 1915, on p. 65, Luncheons 
costing 10 cents a person prepared by school 
children, pp. 89-90, Menus for Families of 
Moderate Means, pp. 103-105, the Hundred 
Calorie Portion table, p. 123, and the 
grouping of costs of food pp. 124-125. 



On page 57 the statement that 25 per 
cent of the family income is sufficient for 
food, is allowed to stand unchanged — 
perhaps because the sentence begins "I have 
elsewhere estimated that;" but it is cer- 
tainly misleading. On page 60, Dr. Norton 
has changed the meaning of one of Mrs. 
Richards' sentences slightly by giving the 
"mean" as 16. Mrs. Richards' figure was 
intended to be a "mean" between the cost 
for "those of whom the world has nothing 
more to hope" and the children; not the 
mean of the two groups of children. How- 
ever, the error is insignificant. 

Mabel T. Wellman, 
Indiana University. 

War-time Breads and Cakes. By Amy L. 

Handy. Boston: Houghton, Mifiiin Co., 

1918, pp. 66. $.75. 

This is a small book containing recipes 
for "war breads and cakes" which the 
author gives as the result of her own experi- 
ments in the use of wheat substitutes. In 
a majority of the recipes whole wheat flour 
is the principal substitute used although 
there are a large number in which corn- 
meal, oatmeal, rice, rye flour, mashed pota- 
toes, and squash take the place of part or 
all of the wheat flour. The book is prob- 
ably most valuable to the housewife in that 
it suggests how she may modify her own 
recipes. 

Elizabeth W. Mlllee, 
University of Chicago. 

The Belgian Cook-Book. Edited by Mrs. 

Brian Luck. New York: E. P. Dutton 

& Co., 1915, pp. 151. $1.00. 

The Belgian Cook-Book containing rec- 
ipes and delightfully different things sug- 
gested by the Belgian refugees in England, 
shows that not to the French alone belongs 
the reputation of cooking economically, 
originally, and deliciously. 

The recipes are unusual without being 
too much trouble to prepare. Cooked 
Lettuce, Apples and Sausages, Saffron Rice, 
Hawthorn Cordial, Fish and Custard, 
Yellow Plums and Rice, Strawberry Fancy, 
Militarj' Prunes, Quince Custard — are a 
few of the dishes given. 

Flora G. Orr. 



1918] BOOKS AND LITERATURE 337 

BOOKS RECEIVED 

Camp Cookery. Ava B. Milam, A. Grace Johnson, and Ruth McNary Smith. Portland, 

Oregon: The J. K. Gill Company, 1918, pp. 108. S.50. 
Caroline King's Cook Book. Caroline B. King. Boston: Little, Brown & Company, 1918, 

pp. 275. SI. 50. 
Cooperation, the Hope of the Consumer. Emerson P. Harris. New York: The Macmillan 

Company, 1918, pp. 328. $2.00. 
Everyu'oman's Canning Book. Marj' B. Hughes. Boston; Whitcomb and Barrows, 1918, 

pp. 96. $.75. 
Food Preparation. Beth Warner Josserand. Peoria, lU.: The Manual Arts Press, 1917, 

pp. (Part I) 148, (Part II) 142. $1.25 each. 
Social Control. Volume XII of the Publications of the American Sociological Society. 

Univ. of Chicago Press. 
Three Acres and Liberty. Bolton Hall. New York: The Macmillan Company, 1918, pp, 

276. $1.25. 

PAMPHLETS RECEIVED 

Issued by the United States Department of Agriculture: 
Circulars from the office of the Secretary in regard to the Supply of: iVo. 96, Sugar; No. 97, 

Lard; No. 98, Canned Salmon; No. 99, Miscellaneous Cereal and Vegetable Foodstufs; 

No. 100, Wheat and Flour; No. 101, Miscellaneous Animal Food Products. Also circular 

No. lOf), Use Potatoes to Save Wheat. 
Control of Diseases and Insect Enemies of the Home Vegetable Garden. W. A. Orton and F. 

H. Chittenden. Farmers' Bulletin No. 856. 
The Farm Garden in the North. James H. Beattie. Farmer's Bulletin No. 937. 
Parcel Post Business Metlwds. C. C. Hawbaker and John W. Law. Farmers' Bui. No. 922. 
United States Food Leaflets: No. 11, Milk, The Best Food Wc Have; No. 12, Save Fuel; No. 13, 

Let the Fireless Cooker Help You Cook; No. 14, Dried Peas and Beans; No. 15, Save Sugar. 

(Issued by U. S. Dept. Agr. and The Food Administration.) 
Use of Wheat Flour Substitutes in Baking. Hannah L. Wessling. Farmer's Bulletin 955. 
Value of a Small Plot of Ground to the Laboring Man. W. C. Funk. Bulletin No. 602. 

Issued by the Department of the Interior, Bureau of Mines: 
Five Ways of Saving Fuel in Heating Houses. Henry Kreisinger. Technical Paper 199. 

Issued by the Department of the Interior, Bureau of Education : 
Lessons in Community and National Life, Community Leaflets Nos. 10-21. 
The Preparation and the Preservation of Vegetables. Henrietta VV. Calvin and Carrie A. 

Lyford. BuUetin, 1917, No. 47. 
Report of the Commissioner of Education for the Year Ended June 30, 1917. Volumes I and II. 

Issued by the Department of Labor, Children's Bureau: 
llilk, The Indispensable Food for Children. Dorothy Reed Mendenhall, M.D. Care of 

Cliildren Series No. 4. Bureau Publication No. 35. 
Save 100,000 Babies. Children's Year Leaflet No. 1. 
Studies of Use of Milk by Families Having Little Children. 

Issued by the United States Public Health Service: 
The Bacteriological Examination of Water. H. E. Hasseltine. Reprint No. 432 from the 
Public Health Reports. 



338 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [July 

The Control of Communicable Diseases. Reprint Xo. 436 from the Public Health Reports. 
Industrial Efficiency. Frederic S. Lee. Reprint No. 448 from the Public Health Reports. 
Mitigation of the Heat Hazard in Industries. J. A. Watkins. Reprint No. 441 from the 

Public Health Reports. 
Public Health Administration in Russia in 1917. C.-E. A. Winslow. Reprint No. 445 from 

the Public Health Reports. 

Issued by the Department of Commerce, Bureau of Standards. 
Safety for the Household. Circular of the Bureau of Standards, No. 75, 1918. 

Issued by the United States Fuel Administration; 
America's Coal Problem in 191S. Harry .\. Garfield. Publication No. 23. 

Issued by the Federal Board for Vocational Education; 
Agricultural Education. Agricultural Series No. 1. 

Issued by the Extension Division, University of Wisconsin: 
Food Conservation through Utilization of Garbage Waste. Serial No. 900, General Series No. 

690. 
Parent-Teacher Associations. Edith E. Hoyt. Serial No. 915, General Series No. 704. 
Industrial Education and Dependency. John R. Commons. Serial No. 916, General Series 

No. 705. 

Issued by the Extension Service, Ohio State University; 
Meat Substitutes. Extension Bui., Vol. XIII, No. 8. 

Saving Wheat. .\nna R. Van Meter and Grace Linder. Extension Bui., Vol. XIII, No. 9. 
Utilization of Food. Recipes. Extension Bui., Vol. XIII, No. 10. 

Issued by University of Rochester and Mechanics Institute; 
Tested Menus and Recipes Based on a Low Cost Dietary, Extension Bui., Vol. I, No. 2. 
Menus for National Needs. Extension Bui., Vol. I, No. 3. 

Issued by the University of Chicago Press; 
War Papers. No. 1, The Threat of German World-Politics, Harry Pratt Judson; No. 2, Ameri- 
cans and the World-Crisis, Albion W. Small; No. 3, Democracy the Basis for World-Order, 
Frederick D. Bramhall; No. 4, Sixteen Causes of War, .Andrew C. McLaughlin; No. 5, 
The War and Industrial Adjustment, Harold G. Moulton. 

Issued by the American Red Cross, Department of Civilian Relief: 
Handbook of Information for Home Service Sections. A. R. C. 207. 
Manual of Home Service. Second Edition. A. R. C. 201. 
This Side of the Trenches with the American Red Cross. 
Report of the Director, Department of Civil Affairs, .\merican Red Cross in France, Feb. 1, 1918. 

Issued by the publishers listed; 
Americanization of Women. Frances A. Kellor. Information Ser\'ice of the National 

Americanization Committee, 29 W. 39th St., New York City. 
Bulletin containing Save Wheat, The Month's War Work in Foods, Recipes from the Woman's 

Italian Club. Women's Municipal League, Boston. 



1918] BOOKS AND LITERATURE 339 

The Country Church as a Social Center. Vol. I, No. 3, Senice Bureau Bui., Mississippi Agr. 

and Mechanical College. 
The Farm Vegetable Garden. H. O. Werner. North Dakota Agr. Experiment Station, 

Agricultural College, N. D. 
Food Charts: A graphic exhibition of the Why and How of food values. Arranged in simple, 

comprehensive form to insure universal understanding. Compiled by Lucy H. Gillett, 

New York Association for Improving the Condition of the Poor. 
Food for Service. .\nme L. Weeks. United Charities of Rochester, N. Y. 
One Week's Budget for Family of Five. Canada Food Board, Ottawa, Can. 
Summer Teacher Training Courses. National Society for Vocational Education, 140 W. 

42d Street, New York City. 
The Uses of the Peanut on the Home Table. Jessie Rich Arms. Bulletin 17, Department of 

Home Economics, Florida State College for Women, Tallahassee. 
War Vegetable Gardening and the Home Storage of Vegetables. Two parts. National War 

Garden Commission, Marj-land Building, Washington, D. C. 
Wheatless-Meatless Meals. Helen Hammel Harlan. Bui. Series I, No. 50. .\merican 

School of Home Economics, Chicago. 



BIBLIOGRAPHY OF HOME ECONOMICS 

PERIODICAL LITER.\TURE 
Textiles and Designs 

New Fabrics for War Use. Literary Digest, Mar. 1918. 

Curious Cloth Testing. Scientific American, Feb. 16, 1918. 

Modem Designs from .\ncient Fabrics. Scientific American, Feb. 16, 1918. 

Patriotic Fabrics. Vogue, Mar. 1, 1918. 

Satin Brocade, Metropolitan .\rt Museum. Decorative Pttrnisher, Mar. 1918. 

Batik Art. Vogue, Mar. IS, 1918. 

The Art of Persia — Brocades and Tapestries. Art and Decoration, Mar. 1918. 

Batik, Francis Gifford. Color Trade Journal, April, 1918. 

Ancient Egyptian Te.xdle Design, H. H. Manchester. Textile World Jour., April 13. 

House Decoration 

Tables: Decorative Importance of Unity in Architecture and Decoration. Arts and 
Decoration, April, 1918. 

Considering the Dining Room. Touchstone, April, 1918. 

Roofs (Old and New). Touchstone, April, 1918. 

Your Countr>' House Living Room. House and Garden, .\pril, 1918. 

A Little Portfolio of Good Interiors. House and Garden, March, 1918. 

How to Buy Pictures. House and Garden, March, 1918. 

Chintzes and Cretonnes. The Independent, April 6, 1918. 

Tripod Table and Stands. W. Dyer, Country Life, April, 1918. 

Spring Fabrics: Cretonnes, Table Runners, Variety of Curtain Bindings. Hottse and 
Garden, Mar. 

Oriental Paper for Occidental Walls. House and Garden, Mar. 

Ideal of Informality in Furniture. Inter Studio, Mar. 

Mobilizing Industrial Design. Good Furniture, Mar. 



340 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [July 

Education 

Home Economics Studies in Grades Seven to Twelve. Anna M. Cooley and Others, 
Teachers CoJege Rec, Mar. 

A plea for Closer Correlation between the Fine Arts and the Industrial Arts in Public 
Schools. Clara Torrey Clement, Indus. Arts Mag., May and June. 

The Practical Arts in General Education. David Snedden, Teachers College Rec, Jan. 
and Mar. (Contains proposals for household arts, including classification of projects and 
topics for grades 7-10). 

Prevocational Training for Girls as Conducted by the North Bennet Street Industrial 
School, Boston. George Greener, Indus. Arts Magazine, May and June. 

Pedagogical Literature Dealing with Home Economics. The School Review, Mar. 

Permsylvania's First Trade School for Girls. Cleo Murtland, Indus. Arts Mag., Apr. 

University Extension Teaching in its Relation to the Conservation of Health. Winifred 
Hathaway, Amer. Jour. Soc, Mar. 

Foods and Food Conservation 

Animal Foods.'^Their Composition and Fuel Value. John Phillips Street, Mod. Hasp., 
May. 

Economical Preparation and Serving of Food. Lulu Graves, Mod. Eosp., May. 

Food Conservation and Health. Thomas Dickinson, Mod. Eosp., May. 

Food in Families of Limited Means: A Study of Home Facts in Two Hundred Boston 
Families. Michael M. Davis, Jr., Survey, Jan. 12. 

Our Food and Our Bodies. H. E. Barnard, Nat. Food Mag., Feb. 

Food Wastes: Some Causes and Remedies. Lucius P. Brown, Amer. Food Jour., Feb. 

Fraudulent Egg Substitutes. Amer. Food Jour., Feb. 

The Ash of Our Foods. George L. Teller, Amer. Food Jour., Mar. 

Aquatic Products as Food. H. F. Moore, Amer. Food Jour. Jan. 

Sugars Other than Cane or Beet. George L. Teller, Amer. Food Jour., Jan. 

Government Tests in Handling Lettuce. Amer. Food Jour., May. 

Sugar Substitutes in JeUy-Making. Leonore Dunnigan, Amer. Food Jour., May. 

Why Save Food? RajTnond Pearl. Amer. Food Jour., May. 

Keep Bees and Save Sugar. Earl D. Hay, Indus. Arts Mag., June. 

Miscellaneous 

The Lives and Health of Mothers and Children — How Can We Save Them. Edward P. 
Davis, M.D., Mod. Eosp., Apr. 

The Children's Clearing Bureau of New York. Frank C. Brooke, Mod. Eosp., Feb. 

Suggestions for Home or Backyard Playground Apparatus. J. E. Painter, Indus. Arts 
Mag., May. 

Junior Red Cross Work in a High School. C. E. Partch, Indus. Arts Mag., June. 

Junior Red Cross Activaties in the Indianapolis Elementary Schools. Florence Fitch, 
Indus. Arts Mag., May and June. 

The Spirit and Deed of Home Service. Mary WiUcox Glenn, Survey, May 18. 

A Study of the Development of Bacteriology as a Basis for Home Economics. J. E. 
Greaves, Amer. Food Jour., Jan. 

How to .\void Colds. Louis Neuwelt, Amer. Jour. Nursing, Feb. and Mar. 

High Standards of Living at Low Cost by Cooperative Housekeeping. Anna Matthews, 
Teachers College Rec, Jan and Mar. 

The Food Habits of a People Without Nerves. Henry C. Tracy, Am^r. Cookery, Apr. 

Scientific Care of the Silver. L. Ray Balderston, Eousemves Mag., Apr. 



NEWS FROM THE FIELD 



The National Society for Vocational 
Education, formerly the National Society 
for the promotion of Industrial Education, 
met in Philadelphia February 21 to 23. The 
program centered around four main topics, 
(1) Education for War Industries, (2) Ad- 
ministration of the Smith-Hughes Act, (3) 
Training and Employment of Women, and 
(4) Rehabilitation of the Disabled. 

Under "Education for War Industries," 
representatives from the Pennsylvania De- 
partment of Labor, the Emergency Fleet 
Corporation, the Bethlehem Steel Com- 
pany, and the Federal Board for Vocational 
Education outlined methods for securing 
and training employees for farm and factory 
to meet the demands of the present emer- 
gency. 

An afternoon and evening were devoted to 
discussion of the problems of administration 
under the Smith-Hughes Act, the necessity 
for coordinating the new educational ma- 
chinery created by that act, and the training 
of teachers to develop it. Mr. J. P. Munroe 
reviewed the provisions of the act, and the 
difEcuIties encountered by the Federal 
board in interpreting it. He emphasized the 
fact that, according to the law, the training 
must be for wage earning, but that the aim is 
to make it as broad as possible and not merely 
utilitarian. Mr. L. S. Hawkins, also of the 
Federal Board for Vocational Education, 
called attention to the necessity for profes- 
sional, technical, and practical experience on 
the part of teachers, and to the need for an 
adequate system of practice teaching. 

In discussing "Women in Industrj'," Mrs. 
A. L. Burdick gave four essential character- 
istics of an occupation for which training 
might be offered to women: "(1) It must 
have teachable conttent, i.e., it must not be ' a 
job which just anybody can do', it must take 
an appreciable time to learn, and it must have 



a definite body of knowledge and a progres- 
sion in its precesses. (2) It should not be 
highly seasonal. (3) It should offer pros- 
pects for wage advancement. (4) The occu- 
pation must be able to absorb a sufficient 
number of workers so that training does 
not overstock the market." 

Mrs. Hilda Mulhauser Richards, of the 
Federal Emplo}Tnent Sen.'ice, emphasized 
the fact that there is no shortage of male labor 
and consequently no reason why women 
should be hurried into industries in which the 
work is much better suited to men. 

One session was devoted to a discussion of 
the rehabilitation of disabled soldiers. 

Alabama Home Economics Associa- 
tion. On February 1-2 the fourth annual 
conference met in Montevallo, with Miss 
May Hansis presiding. The program cen- 
tered about the stirring events of the day as 
they affect home economics. The note- 
worthy addresses were those by Miss Anna 
E. Richardson, of the Federal Board for 
Vocational Education, Washington, D. C, 
and Mr. Robert H. Mangum, Federal Food 
Administrator, Montgomery, .'Ma. Prom- 
inent club women and home makers, as well 
as teachers, were in attendance. 

At the annual meeting of the .Alabama Ed- 
ucational .Association, in Birmingham, March 
29, the Home Economics Section met at noon 
for a joint luncheon with the Industrial Arts 
Section. Araosg the guests and speakers 
at this time were Miss Julia Lathrop, Na- 
tional Director of Child Welfare, and Dr. 
L. S. Hawkins of the Federal Board for 
Vocational Education. In the afternoon the 
Home Economics Association convened for a 
program and business meeting. About 
fifty were present and a most enthusiastic 
meeting resulted. 

341 



342 



THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS 



[July 



The New England Home Economics 
Association, Mrs. Schuyler F. Herron, 
President, has held five meetings during the 
last year. In October, Miss Arnold extended 
greetings, Miss Gunderson of Amherst spoke 
on Extension Work, and Dr. Graham Lusk 
on Calories in Common Life. Exhibits pre- 
pared by the Women's jSIunicipal League, 
Food Facts Bureau, were shown and ex- 
plained by Miss Blood. Miss Guerrier of 
the United States Food Administration, told 
of food conservation work through libraries, 
and Miss Morris, of food conser\'ation in 
Boston Schools. Miss Roof and Miss Pulsi- 
fer explained the work of the city leader, 
while Miss Goodrich discussed food con- 
servation in institutions, and Mrs. Cannon, 
practical conservation in the home. 

The November meeting included a report, 
by Mr. Davis, of investigation among the 
poor, and an "experience meeting" followed, 
with reports from various agencies. 

In December, Professor Carver of Harvard 
spoke on Economics of the Food Supply, 
Mt. BuUard, on Changes in Food Produc- 
tion, and Miss Arnold, on Cooperation with 
Washington. 

The February topics were Clothing and the 
War, by Mrs. Woohnan, Fuel and the War, 
presented by Mr. Loring, and Food and the 
War, by Mrs. Donald. 

In March, Dr. McCollum spoke on Milk 
as a Protective Food. 

Ellen H. Richards Fund Over $5000. 

The Trustees of the Richards Fund received 
contributions so that S-150 was invested in 
Liberty Bonds of the third issue, thus bring- 
ing the total amount of the Fund to over 
$5000. The banner contribution was one 
of over $82 from the home economics stu- 
dents of the Iowa State College at .\mes who 
gave a play and devoted the proceeds to the 
Richards Fund. Local home economics 
associations and departments of home eco- 
nomics are asked to begin plans for contri- 
butions to the Fourth Liberty Loan, which it 
is expected will come early in the fall. The 
Richards Fund supports next year a gradu- 



ate fellowship in the University of Chicago, 
worth $500 and tuition. 

The State Normal School for Women 
at Harrisonburg, Va., has rented a house 
adjoining the campus and fitted it up as a 
practice house for the household arts sen- 
iors. SLx of them occupy the house each 
quarter and take turns in the various activ- 
ities of housekeeping. Eighteen dollars 
apiece per month are allowed them for all 
running expenses. Mrs. Moody, of the 
Household .-Vrts Department, has the super- 
vision of this work, and her little boy affords 
the girls practice in child feeding. 

A number of new courses were offered for 
the spring quarter in order to meet the re- 
quest of the United States Food Adminis- 
trator that as many as possible of our stu- 
dents be prepared for special service in food 
conservation during the summer. A special 
course in canning was given ever>- student in 
the school during the dail)' assembly period 
by adding twenty minutes to the period and 
beginning classes earlier in the morning. 

The cooking classes have been learning to 
make "war breads" and other dishes recom- 
mended by the government, and the sewing 
classes have made 150 garments for the Red 
Cross. 

Notes. Dr. Jessica Peixotto has been made 
Executive Chairman of the department of 
Child Welfare, of the Woman's Committee, 
CouncU of National Defense. Dr. Peixotto 
has obtained leave of absence from the Uni- 
versity of California, where she holds the 
chair of social economics. 

Salem .-Vcademy and College, Winston- 
Salem, N. C, has this year granted the de- 
gree of B.S. to students completing the four- 
year college course in home economics. 

A request for an exchange of postage 
stamps has come from Switzerland. Will 
any who are interested write MUe. Siebert, 
rue de la Prefecture, Fribourg. 



Vol. X, No. 8 August, 1918 

THE 

Journal of Home Economics 

For those interested in Homemaking, Institution Management, 
and Educational Work in Home Economics 

Mrs. Axice P. Norton, Edilor Keturah".E. Baldwin, Managing Editor 

Editorial Board 
Mrs. Mary H. Abel C. F. Lancworthy Ethklwyn Miller Ruth Wheeler . Amy Daniels 

Ex-Officio Members— 'Eds A N. White. President American Home Economics Association 
Elsie Leonard, Chairman Institution Economics Section 
K.\therin'e Blunt, Chairman Science Section 
Agnes E. H.a.rris, Chairman Extension Education Section 
Gr..\ce Denny, Chairman Textile Section 

Collaboralors— The Officers, Members of the Council, and Advisors 

CONTENTS 

Frontispiece, " Dinner Guests " 

Menus of the .\NcrENT Roitw? World Cornelia G. Harcmn 343 

Some Experimexts with Wheat Substitutes Cora E. Gray 348 

The Teaching or Food Values IN THE Elemintary ScHoois Rosa Bicry 35S 

An Economy Sugar Bowl 357 

Home Project Work in Vocational Home EcoNO.\ncs m Second.-vry Schools . . 

Maude Gregory Adams 358 

Conservation .\nd the Food Budget Jean Krueger 363 

Home Economics IN the Public Schools Under 'War Conditions .... Alice A. Johnson 369 

Why E.\t Food? 370 

For the Homem-^vker 

Changing a Peace Time Ration for War Time Caroline L. Eunl 371 

Pokts in Selecting Meals Flora Rose 374 

S.vlvacing Food Containers Katherine Wicker 377 

.\ Wheatless Loaf 378 

Sh.\ll We Buy Milk or CRE.vii? 379 

-Vnother Method of Sterilizing Glassware 379 

Editorial 380 

Books .ant) Liter.\ture 383 

Bibliogr.vrhy of Home Eco.\omics 385 

Xews from the Field 387 

The JoUENAl of Home Econoujcs is published monthly by the American Home Economics Association. 

$2.00 A YEAR. FOREIGN $2.35. CANADIAN $2.20. SINGLE COPIES 23 CENTS 

HOW TO REMIT. Remittances should be sent by Check. Express Order or Postal Money Order, payable to the 
American Home Economics Association. Currency, unless mailed in a registered letter, is at the sender's risk. 

NOTICE. When payment is made by check no receipt will be sent unless requested. 

CHANGE IN ADDRESS. Noticeof change in address should be sent Two Weeks before the date of issue on which 
the change is to take effect. The subscriber's Old Address should be clearly indicated in addition to the New Address. 

AMERICAN HOME ECONOMICS ASSOCIATION 1211 Cathedral St., Baltimore, Md. 

Entered at second class ^matter at the Baltimore Post Office 

The Journal or Home EcoNomcs is on sale at John Wanamaker's, Philadelphia; The Old Corner Book Store, Boston; 

A. C. McClurg's, Chicago; Baltimore News Company, Baltimore; Woodward and Lotbrop, Washington 



DINNER GUESTS 

At my plentiful table I had grown 
Quite accustomed to dine alone. 
To-day came guests to sit with me: 
England, France, and Italy. 

I welcomed them to my repast. 

And begged they break their war-time fast. 

To France I served my bread of wheat. 

To England I served my roast of meat. 

To Italy my toothsome sweet, 

And, oh, it was good to see them eat! 

We drank a health in the wine of cheer. 
And I must confess — though I own it queer — 
That I had not known for many a year 
A heart so light and a head so clear. 
And now each day they dine with me, 
My comrades, friends, and allies three. 

With France I share my bread of wheat, 
With England I share my roast of meat. 
With Italy ray toothsome sweet, 
And, oh, it is good to know they eat! 

A savorj- soup and a dish of rice 
I find sufficient and very nice. 

Mabel Kingsi.ey Richardson. 



THE 

Journal of Home Economics 

Vol. X AUGUST, 1918 No. 8 

MENUS OF THE ANCIENT ROMAN WORLD 

CORNELIA G. HARCUM 
Vassar College 

At the present time, when so much thought is being devoted to the 
making of menus, it may be interesting at least to look back a few 
centuries and consider those of the ancient Romans who were truly 
masters in the art of dining. For the average person it may be instruc- 
tive as well, for the majority of writers on the subject of Roman meals 
have devoted themselves almost exclusively to the exaggerated side of 
Roman luxury. They have concerned themselves, to a great extent, 
with dishes composed of singing birds, nightingales' tongues, or pea- 
cocks' brains, and draughts of Hquid pearls, or with the fanciful concoc- 
tions which were served at the dinner of a Trunalchio or a Nasidienus. 
The result is that the modern idea of the life of the ancient Romans is 
all too frequently represented by the ditty which begins. 

Old Lucullus, they say. 

Forty cooks had each day, 

And Vitellius' meals cost a million. 

We must remember, however, that this represents only one side of 
the hfe of the ancient Romans; that their menus were quite as varied 
as our own; that the peasants in Italy, then as now, lived largely on the 
produce of their gardens; and that even in the days of the Empire the 
diet of many of the Romans was largely vegetarian. Indeed so simple 
was the fare of the early Romans that the substance of their meals 
consisted frequently of a kind of porridge called pulse which was served 

343 



344 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [AugUSt 

in an earthen bowl. Vegetables were chopped fine and added to this 
mixture which preceded even bread as an article of diet. Roman 
authors represent Romulus as being so simple in his tastes that he pre- 
ferred a dinner of vegetables, even when he had ascended into the 
heavens. 

The following are a few of the many menus of various kinds which 
may be culled from the pages of Latin authors. 

Shepherd's evening meal: Mellow apples, mealy chestnuts, abun- 
dance of cheese. 

Slaves' banquet: Nuts, olives, beans, figs, lupine. 

Farmer's daily meal: Vegetables, flitch of smoked bacon. 

Farmer's meal on festal days: chicken or kid, raisins from the string, 
nuts, figs, wine. 

Dinner served by peasants to distinguished guests: ripe and green 
olives, pickled cornel berries, endive, cheese, eggs cooked in warm ashes, 
wine, bacon and cabbage, nuts, dried figs, dates, plums, mellow apples, 
purple grapes.' 

An author of imperial days invites a friend to partake of a frugal 
meal with him and encloses the bill of fare. Parva est cenula, says 
Martial. 

Menu: Lettuce, onions, salt tunny fish garnished with eggs, hot 
cabbage fresh from the garden, small sausages resting on snowy pulse, 
beans with a streak of fat and streak of lean; and a dessert consisting of 
raisins, Syrian pears, roasted Neapolitan chestnuts, wine. 

In considering the examples of the Roman cena it may be interesting 
to note that a cena recta, or formal dinner, regularly consisted of three 
divisions: the gustus, cena proper, and the mensae seciindae. The 
gustiis corresponds to our entree. Its purpose was to aid the digestion 
and whet the appetite for the more substantial parts of the meal which 
were to follow. Mulsum, a mixture of honey and wine, was drunk during 
this course. The second division, the cena proper, was very varied in 
its content and might be divided itself into several courses. The third 
division, the mensae secundae, corresponded to our dessert and always 
consisted of fresh or dried fruits, nuts, and pastry of various kinds. 

Dinner served by Martial to several friends: 

'■ /Vlthough the scene of the story in which this menu is given is laid in Phrygia, the 
menu itself is certainly representative of the food of the rustics in Italy in Ovid's day. 



1918] MENUS OF THE ANCIENT ROM.\N WORLD 345 

Gustiis: Mallows, lettuce, onions, mint, fish garnished with eggs, 
rue, sow's udders swimming in tunny sauce. 

Cena proper: kid, croquettes, beans, cabbage sprouts, chicken and 
ham which have already appeared three times at table. 

Mensae secundae: Mellow apples, wine. 

Still another menu is given by Martial for what he considers a rather 
desirable meal. 

Gustus: Lettuce, onions, tunny fish garnished with eggs and rue, 
eggs cooked in warm ashes, cheese, olives from Picenum (the finest 
variety) . 

Here endeth the gustus, but that his friend may not be tempted to go 
elsewhere by a more attractive dinner, Martial says, "Do you wish to 
know the rest of the meal? I shall exaggerate in order to entice you." 

Cena proper: Fish, oysters, sumen (sow's udder), fowl both wild and 
tame. The dessert is evidently left to the guest's imagination for 
Martial stops here. 

There were, of course, public dinner parties as well as private. The 
menu which was served on one such occasion is found in Macrobius. 
This occasion was an inaugural banquet of a certain Lentulus as 
priest of Mars. Caesar and several of the Vestal virgins were among 
the distinguished guests. The menu is very elaborate. 

Gustus: Sea urchins, blue points, as many as one desired, mussels, 
shell fish of other varieties, asparagus, roast chicken, oyster patties, 
fig-peckers, filet of kid, filet of boar, pate de volailles grasses, snails from 
Baiae. 

Cena proper: Sumen (sow's udder), head of boar, pate de poisson, 
duck, roast teal, hare, roast fowl. 

It seems that a part of this menu may be missing for the cena proper 
scarcely seems in proportion to the gustus, and the only dessert which 
is mentioned is two kinds of pastry. 

Memorial banquets were served by the Romans in honor of their 
dead. One feast of this kind consisted of: Lamb, pork, white bread, 
salad, onions, tv.-o kinds of wine. 

Nine days after the funeral Novendiales feriae were held. A cena 
novendialis was served at this time. The following is given by Petronius 
as the menu of a dinner of this kind which was served in honor of a slave: 
Pork, cheese cake, giblets(?), beets, whole wheat bread, cold tarts, 
Spanish wine and honey, peas, filberts, an apple apiece, joint of bear's 
flesh. 



346 



THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS 



[August 



It will be noted that this menu is not given in regular order. Guslus, 
cena proper, and dessert are confused in a rather hopeless way. This 
confusion is due to the tipsy condition of the guest who reports that he 
was present. 

A strange custom at certain dinner parties of Roman Imperial days, 
and one which is foreign to all our ideas of good taste, was the serving 
of a double menu. This custom originated in the degradation of what 
was once the mutually self respecting relationship of patron and client. 
At dinners of this kind the host and his distinguished guests dined on 
the finest of food, while the client though reclining at the same table 
partook of a less desirable variety. The two best examples of the double 
menu are found in Martial and Juvenal. In Martial the client com- 
plains, "As I am invited to dine with you why is not the same menu 
served to me as to you?" 



Host's menu 

Oysters from the Lucrine Lake 

Mushrooms of the finest 

Turbot 

Golden turtle dove 



Client's menu 
Mussels of an inferior sort 
Toad stools fit for a pig 
Cheap fish 
Magpie which died in the cage 



"Why do I dine without you when I dine with you?" is the final 
lament of the long suffering client. 

Juvenal also mentions all the indignities which a client might meet 
at a rich man's table, and says that he is invited for no other reason 
than that a seat may not remain unoccupied. He gives the following 
illustration of the double menu. 



Host's menu 

Host quaffs wine nearly two hun- 
dred years old from cup of am- 
ber or one set with precious 
stones 

Water that has been boiled then 
cooled with snow is served by 
a slave of great price 

Lobster garnished with aspara- 
gus and dressed with Venafran 
oil 

Soft, white bread 

Imported mullet 



Client's menu 

Cheapest of wine. If even a 
golden cup is used, a guard is 
placed over it 

Water served by a slave so 
black that you would not 
wish to meet him at midnight 

Shrunken crab garnished with 
half an egg and dressed with 
rancid oil. 

Stale, hard, mouldy bread 

Eel, kinsman of the long snake 



918 MENUS OF THE ANCIENT ROMAN WORLD 347 

Lamprey from the Sicilian gulf Pike fattened in the sewer 

Liver of goose 

Boar worthy of Meleager 

Finest of mushrooms Doubtful fungi 

Apples so luscious that one might Rotten apples 
feast on the odor 

Although the custom of serving a double menu was one which seems 
to have become fairly common in certain classes of society during 
Imperial days, it never met the approval of the better people in Rome. 
Suetonius records it to the credit of Julius Caesar that he was so punc- 
tilious in the management of his household that he had his baker put in 
irons for serving him one kind of bread and his guests another. Pliny 
the Younger expresses his disapproval of this form of entertainment as 
do other authors also. 

Perhaps the best known but in many ways the least representative of 
Roman menus is that of the cena Trimalchionis which is given by 
Petronius. This dinner was served at the home of Trimalchio, a wealthy 
but vulgar freedman. It represents an exaggerated form of the luxury 
and bad taste of the late Empire. 

It may be seen by a glance at the menus included in this brief list 
that Roman menus were as varied as the variety of tastes of the several 
hosts, the different occasions on which the meals were served, and the 
gradual change from a simple life to a more complex would lead one to 
expect. In fact they were as varied as those of our own day. Many 
of the foods which they ate were quite like our own, and many of their 
theories in regard to diet were also similar to ours. Water was boiled 
to free it from impurities; whole wheat bread was considered very 
nourishing; and condiments were condemned by Roman physicians as 
being unwholesome. 



348 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [AugUSt 

SOME EXPERIMENTS WITH WHEAT SUBSTITUTES 

CORA E. GRAY 

University of Illinois 

With the decrease in the available supply of wheat it has become 
imperative to increase to the utmost the use of other flours. Even after 
the harvest wheat must still be conserved to guard against future short- 
age. WTieat flour has been considered indispensable because for most of 
our bakery goods it gives the whitest, tenderest, and largest product 
and because its mild flavor makes its daily use possible. While substi- 
tute flours do not give results identical with wheat, satisfactory prod- 
ucts can in most cases be obtained. 

Figures 1 and 2 illustrate the influence of increasing proportions of rice 
flour in a plain cake. ("Home Science Cook Book," Lincoln and 
Barrows, p. 199.) All ingredients by weight. A, all pastry flour. B, 
three-fourths pastry, one-fourth rice flour. C, one-half pastry, one- 
half rice. D, one-fourth pastry, three-fourths rice. E, all rice flour. 
Rice flour was selected because it is considered difficult to use a large 
proportion, due to the grainy texture frequently produced and to the 
fact that the batter does not hold the gas bubbles weO. 

Whenever such a series is made there is a gradual decrease in size 
from the all wheat to the aU substitute product. (See also fig. 3.) In 
this case there is little difference in the appearance of the cakes as cut 
except that the all wheat cake (fig. \, A.) shows more clearly the influ- 
ence of too hot an oven in the shape of the loaf and in the characteristic 
muffin texture. 

As the proportion of rice flour is increased, however, the cake is less 
elastic, more solid, and a trifle moister. One-half rice and one-half 
pastry flour makes a good cake, but more than one-half rice flour does 
not give such acceptable results. The other half of the flour need 
not, however, be wheat. Barley or buckwheat flours can be used, if 
almond or lemon flavoring is added in the case of the barley, and spice 
or chocolate with the buckwheat. No cake made with all substitute 
flours is quite like the one made with all pastry floui , but if we learn to 
accept a somewhat smaller and more compact loaf, we may still have a 
good cake using no wheat. If one-half barley or buckwheat is taken 
as the basis, the rest of the flour may be made up of almost any sub- 
stitute flour available. The flavor of a cake made entirely of substi- 



1918] SOME EXPERQIEXTS WITH WHEAT SUBSTITUTES 349 

tute flour is better when the cake is entirely cold, or even on the next 
day. Rich cakes are difficult to make without wheat flour and had 
better be avoided. 

If other flours than wheat are to be used, rules for substitution must 
be devised. The States Relations Service at Washington and the 
Food Administration suggest substitution by weight, that is the use of 
an equal weight of a substitute flour in place of wheat. The same sug- 
gestion in the case of mufiins is made in an article, "Serving Meals 
Without Wheat" in the Journal of Home Economics for March, 
1918, page 131 (with corrections in April, page 186). On page 132 one 
reads, "In using other flours for wheat, an equal amount by weight 
should be used. It is perfectly easy to leave out one-fourth, or one- 
half, or three-fourths of the wheat flour and add in its place an equal 
weight of barley flour, buckwheat, rice flour, fine com meal, or other 
flours." Following these directions four series of mufiins were made 
beginning with one-fourth substitute and ending with all substitute. 
One set of all wheat muffins was made for comparison. The results are 
not uniform as one would expect if substitution by weight is the best 
method (see fig. 3). The all barley and all buckwheat muflins, using 
the recipe given in the article, were very much too stiff (fig. 3 c, E and 
3 d, E.) The barley particularly was a very rough, solid mufiin which 
was very evidently made with too much flour. Even the muffin made 
with one-haLf barley and one-half wheat begins to show plainly that too 
much flour has been used (fig. 3d, C). Apparently when barley flour 
and, to a somewhat smaUer degree, buckwheat, are substituted weight 
for weight for wheat in muffins, the mixture is very much too stiff. 

Figure 3 shows increasing proportions of substitute flours. Series 
a, rice flour; b, fine com meal; c, buckwheat; d, barley. A, all wheat. 
B, three-fourths wheat, one-fourth substitute. C, one-half wheat, one- 
half substitute. D, one-fourth wheat, three-fourths substitute. E, all 
substitute. 

Figure 4 shows the improvement made by reducing the amount of 
barley in an entire barley mufiin. A, all wheat muffin. B, all barley 
muffins, same weights as in ^. C, all barley, flour reduced one-fourth. 
D, all barley, same amount of flour as in C, large egg instead of small. 
B was made with weights identical with those used in A , but with barley 
flour instead of wheat. The rough surface gives an indication of how 
stiff a mixture resulted. In C the amount of barley flour was reduced 
one-fourth, by weight, giving a much improved muffin. Instead of a 



350 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [AugUSt 

hard dry muiBn, a tender, moist one was obtained. Similar good results 
have been obtained by reducing the amount of buckwheat a little less 
than one-fourth. If one wishes to increase the size and thus more 
nearly approximate the wheat mufEn, a large egg rather than a small or 
medium one should be used. The only difference between C and D is 
that in D the equivalent of a large egg was used. It is therefore appar- 
ent that better results may be obtained with some other rule of substi- 
tution than that of weight at least in the case of barley and buckwheat. 

The same general results are obtained using all substitute flours in 
sponge cakes (see fig. 5). ^ is bread flour; B, pastry flour; C, fine com 
meal; D, rice flour; E, barley flour; F, potato flour. The corn and rice 
sponge cakes fell a httle (C and D), showing too little flour. This is 
more apparent where the cake has been broken to show the texture. 
In previous work with muffins and griddle cakes using rice flour and 
fine corn meal, there had been indications that a given amount of liquid 
required more rice flour and fine corn meal by weight than barley or 
buckwheat flours. The sponge cakes (fig. 5, C, D, and E) show this. 
The muffins in figure 3 show the same thing since with equal weights 
of all ingredients the rice and corn mufiins are better than the barley 
and buckwheat ones. Better sponge cakes than those in figure 5 were 
obtained by increasing the amount of rice flour about one-sixth and 
decreasing the barley by the same amount. Reducing the barley as 
much as was found possible in the muffins (see fig. 4) caused the cake 
to fall slightly. 

It is worth while to caU attention to the potato sponge cake figure 
5, F. In size it was equal to the one made with all pastry flour and was 
decidedly more tender. That is, a better sponge cake can be obtained 
with an equal weight of potato flour than \vith all pastry flour. The 
dry solid sponge cakes of rather strong flavor which are sometimes 
obtained with potato flour are due to the use of too large a quantity 
of the flour. In the case of potato flour for sponge cake, substitution 
by weight seems to be the best proportion, giving an all substitute cake 
which is better than the aU wheat one. 

The directions for substituting weight for weight have probably 
come about because entire substitutions have not been made with one 
flour, and because of differences due to milling. If the flours are mixed 
the differences are less apparent. A recent card from the States Rela- 
tions Service makes the following suggestions: 



WaH^ VsV VcV WdV ^^tsf 



I 




.Bf k^.^c 






Fig. 4 







feiiF,v|f 



C^^ 



AL 



n^PJ 



B^^ cilil Dl .. i E 




5b 
Fig. 5 



^^V f9 fcP ^9^ ^eI 



3a 



^P^ 



■•I A 



|g 1 



IbW €cP Cv Vif 



^Wi feW Wcf f^^ 4P| 



3c 



Wm fW WcW Mot 



*T3t 



Pifc. 3 



191S] SOifK EXPERIMENTS WUU WHEAT SUBSTITUrES 351 

Good combinations of substitutes 

You will get better results if you mix two substitutes than if you use just 
one alone. Some good combinations are: 

Rolled oats (ground) Corn Hour 

or or 

Barley flour Rice llour 

or or 

Buckwheat flour and Potato llour 

or or 

Peanut flour Sweet potato flour 

or or 

Soy-bean flour Corn meal 

It should be noticed that barley and buckwheat are not given as 
supplementary but as interchangeable, and that the same is true of rice 
llour and corn meal. In substituting according to this list the chances 
are very good that a combination of a substitute giving loo stilT a batter 
(as barley or buckwheat) with one giving too thin a one (as corn meal 
or rice flour) would be made with satisfactory results. This list of 
combinations is, tlierefore, a very good one. 

Besides the dilTerences due to inherent dilTerences in the flours or 
meals the new substitutes are a constantly varying ])roduct because of 
unstandardized milling conditions. The milling of high grade wheat 
flour has been perfected until patent flour is a fairly constant product. 
Even with wheat flour, however, absolutely invariable recipes are 
impossible with pastry, baking powder biscuit, and bread. Every one 
is accustomed to recipes for plain pastry with directions for adding 
"about h cup of ice water," and to bread recijies calling for "about 3 
cups of flour" for every cup of liquid. If then wheat flour, the milling 
of wluch is so nearly an exact industry, does not lend itself to inflexible 
recipes under all conditions, it is not to be expected that the new substi- 
tutes should be uniform and hence available for exact recipes by weight. 
As a matter of fact almost every lot of substitute purchased is dilTerent 
from its predecessors. Barley mullins with a new purchase of flour are 
too stifl using the weights whicii three weeks ago gave repeatedly good 
results. The article referred to in the I'lHi; Journal of Home Eco- 
nomics suggests that fine corn flour is an acceptable substitute for 
wheat flour. With the last corn flour bought here it was impossii)lc to 
make good muflins using half corn flour and half barley, although the 
corn meal obtainable gave good results. Repeated failures were also 



352 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [AugUSt 

made with sponge cake using corn flour, although both corn meal and 
potato flour made satisfactory cakes. 

Since exact measurements or weights are impossible until more uni- 
form products are put upon the market, one must be content with 
approximate directions. First, as has been said many times, results 
obtained with mixtures of substitutes are usually better in flavor and 
texture than when one alone is used. Barley and buckwheat flour if 
used alone should be added until the batter is of the same consistency 
as with wheat. Rice and corn meal batters should be somewhat thin- 
ner; in the case of muffins very thin. Combinations for muffins and 
plain cakes are best if the substitutes are added until the consistency 
approaches that of wheat. The amount necessary, while usually 
neither the same weight nor the same measure, approaches the former 
and a table of weights may be used to indicate approximately the 
amounts needed. With substitute flours and meals it is, however, 
imperative to cook with brains and judgment. 

Approximate subslHution values of a Jew flours 

For one cup of wheat flour substitute Other measurements of substitute equiv- 

about alent to one cup of flour (United States 

\\ cup barley Department of Agriculture, States Relations 

J cup buckwheat Service). 

Ig cup fine com meal 1 scant cup peanut flour 

1 cup rice flour 1| cup rolled oats 

J cup potato flour \\ cup rolled oats ground in meat chopper 

I cup soy bean flour 
Ij cup sweet potato flour 



1918] TEACHING FOOD VALUES 353 

THE TEACHING OF FOOD VALUES IN THE ELEMENTARY 
SCHOOLS 

ROSA BIERY 
School of Education, University of Chicago 

For the purpose of determining whether or not the subject of food 
values and selection of food could be successfully taught to children of 
the intermediate grades, and of finding a method by which it might 
be done, a series of lessons was given to both the boys and girls of the 
sLxth grade of the University Elementary School. The results of the 
experiment showed that this kind of subject matter can be taught to 
children of that age providing all technical information is reduced to 
terms comprehensible to children, and providing also that the work 
be vitallized by constant association with the outside interests of the 
pupils, as much more ground can be covered in a given length of time 
under the stimulus of keen interest. If these two requirements are met 
it should be possible to give a usable concept of food values in about 
thirty-four lessons. In solving the first problem, recent literature on 
food conservation issued by the government, in which the more difficult 
terms are omitted, has been of great assistance. Many of the leaflets 
can be put directly into the hands of the children. 

The big problem of interesting the pupils in this type of information 
was much simplified by the patriotic attitude of the class in regard to 
food conservation and by the general social spirit. Although the 
group as a whole was from well-to-do homes, all took a keen interest in 
the welfare of children less fortunate than themselves. As an illustra- 
tion of the former, they were greatly interested in the Food Show given 
under the auspices of the State Council of National Defense, January 
5 to 13. 1918. The floor space of the Coliseum, where it was held, was 
divided among five large booths, representing the five main groups of 
foods, and each had a large electric sign — fats, proteins, sugars, starches, 
or fruits and vegetables — at its entrance. The pupils decided to have 
an e.xhibit or "Food Show" of their own. They followed the same 
general grouping of foods as that used at the Food Show down town, 
using printed placards for signs. The class was divided into two sec- 
tions and an interesting contest took place to see which could arrange 
the better exhibit. 

The social interest, to which reference has already been made, was 



354 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [AugUSt 

used in two ways. The "well-balanced meal," which they discussed in 
connection with their study of the five food groups, was planned for a 
poor Italian family which the class as a whole had become very much 
interested in helping. The idea of planning and cooking a meal for 
them was very attractive to the children; accordingly the "balanced" 
meal was prepared in class and sent to the adopted family in a Christ- 
mas basket just before the holidays. 

The cost of foods was taken up in connection with a study of the 
"penny-lunches" or noon meals served to the children in some of the 
poorer schools of the city at a minimum cost. They had already become 
familiar with them, as a fund for that purpose had been started in the 
school, and therefore they were eager to plan some lunches. In order 
to do this it was important to know which foods give most for the 
money, and thus a reason was furnished for studying this worth while 
topic, which would not in itself have appealed to them. The penny- 
lunch also furnished the needed motive for studying which foods are 
most important for growing boys and girls, as the poorer children are 
often stunted and anaemic because of lack of proper kinds of foods as 
well as because of insufficient quantity. The class decided which of the 
lunches planned best fulfilled all of the above requirements of a good 
penny-lunch, and it was prepared during a laboratory period. 

The group to which these lessons were given had had practically no 
experience in food study or in cooking. Two lessons a week were 
allowed to the subject, the recitation period being one half hour and the 
laboratory period one and one-half hours. The first ten weeks were 
devoted to a study of the composition of the foods themselves. The 
laboratory work consisted of three different types: experimental tests 
for composition, cooking problems, and exhibits. Tests which show 
familiar physical characteristics of the foods were used in preference to 
the chemical color tests, as it has been found that they function much 
better in relating similar foods and classifying them. The laboratory 
cooking problems were chosen to illustrate the composition of the foods, 
and no emphasis was laid upon principles of cooking. The exhibits 
were arranged by the children themselves and tested their ability to 
classify the different foods studied according to their composition. This 
method was especially useful in emphasizing the main differences 
between the various types of vegetables and between the fine and coarse 
cereal products. 



1918] TEACHING FOOD VALUES 355 

The remaining seven weeks of the course were devoted to the study 
of food selection. The children had acquired enough information in 
regard to composition to enable them to group foods under the five 
classes — protein, fats, sugars, starches, and fruits and vegetables. The 
selection of foods from these groups to assure a well-balanced diet, the 
function of each type of food material, and the relative cost of foods 
within each group were the topics considered. Special emphasis was 
placed on the discussion of "foods for growth" such as milk, eggs, and 
green leaf vegetables, and the quantity and kind of protein needed for 
children. 

The methods that were used to give as clear a concept as possible 
of these rather difficult problems can be illustrated by the following 
laboratory exercises which were used in studying protein and cost. 
For the former an exhibit of various foods containing equal amounts of 
protein was arranged. Portions containing one-half ounce, such a-s one 
pint of milk, two eggs, two ounces of cheese, were used for the sake of 
convenience; the children were simply told that all were equal in protein. 
The differences in the quality of protein found in the different foods were 
noted and emphasis was placed on the fact that milk and eggs were 
better protein foods than meat for children. In order to give some 
idea of the amount of protein needed during a day the number of por- 
tions required by a child was discussed by the teacher and the children 
then selected a day's protein allowance from their e.xhibit. A clear, 
graphic picture was obtained by arranging an exhibit showing a child's 
protein needs for one day. 

The laboratory exercise on cost was given in order that the children 
might know which foods were the cheapest to use in planning their 
penny-lunches. The basis for comparison was the relative cost within 
each food group on the basis of fuel value. When they arranged their 
Food Show each child was given cards on which were written the names 
of the foods which he or she was responsible for measuring, the measure 
of the portion (one hundred calories was used for convenience) , and the 
cost of those amounts. When the exhibit was ready the cheapest foods 
in each group could be easily told by noting the costs on the cards. 

In order to test the effectiveness of the course, several different meth- 
ods were employed. Some conservation pamphlets issued by the Food 
Administration at Washington relating to wise choice of food suggested 
a profitable opportimity for using the information they had gained. It 
was impossible to get enough copies for the whole school, so this group 



356 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [AugUSt 

took the six pamphlets and selected the points that were considered by 
all to be most important. This required considerable judgment and 
continual reference to what had been learned about foods. Out of the 
parts thus selected a leaflet was made and printed by members of the 
group in the school print shop. 

At the end of the series of lessons the children gave a morning assembly 
exercise on Food Conservation, as a summary of their work. In their 
English composition class they organized the material under the follow- 
ing main topics: (1) Our Food Show (referring to their exliibit); (2) 
Which Foods are Cheapest; (3) The History of the Penny-Limches; 
(4) How we planned our Penny-Lunches; (5) "Foods for Growth," 
(6) The Need for Conservation — (a) Shortage of food in Europe, (b) 
Shortage of food in America, (c) What we should save, (d) We are not 
saving enough; (7) How We Made Our Leaflets. Each topic was made 
the basis of class discussion. Afier all had been worked out in detail 
ihe class was divided into committees, each committee being responsible 
for the presentation of a large topic at the school assembly exercise. 
The members of a given committee held themselves responsible for the 
preparation of all pictures and charts needed to make the topic clear. 
To add interest to the program an exhibit of foods divided into the five 
groups was placed across the front of the stage on tables covered with 
white paper to give the effect of a counter. Large trade containers 
which could be easily recognized by the audience were used. In front 
of each group of foods was a poster containing the names of the foods 
in that group. The leaflets prepared by the class were given out at the 
close of the program. 

To test whether or not the pupils would be at all guided in the choice 
of their own food by the knowledge gained, the bill-of-fare was brought 
in from the cafeteria and the pupils selected the lunches which they 
would like. In order that they might keep in mind the importance of 
considering food for the day rather than for any particular meal, they 
were asked to put down examples of the kind of breakfast and dinner 
they would need with the lunch chosen. Some sample menus are given: 



Lunch 


Breakfast 


Dinner 


Glass of milk 


Orange 


Tomato soup 


2 rolls and butter 


! cup cocoa 


Bread and butter 


1 dish baked beans 


2 pieces toast 


1 dish spinach 


1 baked apple 


1 dish oatmeal 


1 serving meat 
Potatoes 



1918] TEACHING FOOD VALUES 357 



Lunch 


Breakfast 


Dinner 


Creamed fish 


1 egg 


Spinach 


Mashed potatoes 


Toast 


Steak 


Rice pudding 


Apple sauce 
Cocoa 


Chocolate blanc mange 



Although the course could not be directly adapted to another situa- 
tion, the experiment has shown that if an effort is made to connect the 
subject of food selection with the interests of the children it can be 
given real meaning for tliem. In the present crisis there is little doubt 
that one of the important features of food conservation is the dissemi- 
nation of such information, in order that we may conserve without en- 
dangering our national health. 



AN ECONOMY SUGAR BOWL 

An economy sugar bowl made from a baking-powder can by Major E. 
C. Dalton and now in use on all mess tables of the Sixty-third Infantry at 
the Presidio, in San Francisco, has been brought with three other inven- 
tions to the Army INIedical Department. The unique sugar bowl is made 
very simply by boring a hole, half an inch in diameter, through the rim 
of the lid of a baking-powder can and through the can itself. When these 
holes are in position, one upon the other, a steady flow of sugar to the 
desired amount may be had. According to Major Dalton, by the use of 
these sugar-bowls, the consumption of sugar has been cut down 20 per 
cent in seven months' use by the Sixty-Third Infantry. He said: 

"Several methods were tried for saving sugar. Sweetening coffee and 
tea was tried but that is both wasteful and unfair to individuals who have 
varied tastes. The open sugar bowl is a failure. If a wet spoon is thrust 
into it a double amount clings to the spoon. The sugar in the bowl 
dampened by this process must be thrown out. The baking-powder 
can is the solution. The men pour the sugar from it directly into the 
spoon. They can see then just how much they are using." 



358 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [AugUSt 

HOME PROJECT WORK IN VOCATIONAL HOME ECONOMICS 
IN SECONDARY SCHOOLS' 

MAUDE GREGORY ADAMS 

Supervisor Practice Teaching, Ohio Stale University 

GENERAL DIRECTIONS 

All project work should take into consideration: the age, health, and 
personal qualifications of the pupils ; the previous class work and exper- 
ience of the pupil; the type of home training the pupil has had; the 
financial conditions in the home. 

Each pupil should carry on project work through six months of each 
year, choosing the months best adapted for carrying out her particular 
project. The same project may be developed through more than one 
year. More than one project may be developed in the six months. 
We do not want a project to become irksome. 

The work should be systematically reported and credit given to 
average in with other home economics units. 

The home economics teacher should do all in her power to stimulate 
and inspire the pupils to do original work and independent thinking, 
and to make the projects bring worthwhile results and conclusions 

PRELIMINARY STEPS TO BE TAKEN BY THE TEACHER 

Become acquainted \vith home conditions of the pupils. 

Have a general meeting and tea for all mothers of girls in the classes. 
If this number seems too large, better give a series of gatherings accord- 
ing to classes, so that the groups do not number more than ten or fifteen. 

Try to have a chat with each mother at this time, or make a home 
visit soon after, the aim being to find out from each something of her 
ambitions for her daughter and the daughter's personal likes and dis- 
likes in this specific work. 

While they are together, tell them in a friendly way something of the 
plans being made for their girls and some of the things the work may 
accomplish. Solicit their cooperation, and show how much may be 
done if all work together. 

' Suggestions for home project work to be given in connection with vocational courses in 
home economics in secondary schools in Ohio. 

Approved under the Ohio plans for administering the Smith-Hughes Act. 



1918] HOME PROJECT WORK IN HOME ECONOMICS 359 

Have a personal conference with each girl to decide what her definite 
project is to be. Talk over a number of possibilities and, knowing 
somewhat the conditions, as outlined above, try to help her choose a 
project which will be reasonable, interesting, and profitable. 

Prepare with her a definite statement of her problems and an outline 
or program of procedure. 

SUGGESTED PROJECTS POSSIBLE FOR THE VARIOUS YEARS OF THE COURSE 

First year. Based on simple study of foods, the making of simple 
undergarments, and the care and repair of clothing. 

Work might well include such projects as: 

Canning of fruits and vegetables. 

Storing of fruit and vegetables and eggs for winter use. 

The preparation of beverages for all the family meals. 

The preparation of some definite part of certain meals. 

Preparing certain parts of the school lunch if there is a lunch room. 

Making a simple baby outfit. 

Hemming and marking the household linens. 

Making certain undergarments and comparing with ready-made 
garment of same cost as to quality, durability, daintiness, etc. 

Caring for the family bedding from season to season. 

Test of best care for stockings. 

Second year. Based on first year's work, on simple dressmaking, and 
more advanced food study and planning and serving of meals. 

Some possible projects: 

Selec'.ion, buying, and canning of fruit and vegetables. 

Jelly making. (Products should be compared with same quantity of 
commercially prepared fruit as to flavor, cost, appearance, etc.) 

Plan meals for a family and prepare one simple meal a day. 

Set the table and serve the family dinner each day. 

Prepare and serve one of the lighter meals each day. 

Plan menus for school lunch room and plan way of serving. 

Plan for and pack lunch pails at home. 

Choose and buy material for a simple wash dress and make it, kee|>- 
ing record of amounts, cost, and time in making. 

Keep own clothes well cleaned, pressed, and repaired. 

Third year. Based on first and second years' work and on house 
planning and decorating, and more advanced dressmaking and millinery. 

Chart the home kitchen and work out a scheme for efficient arrange- 



360 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [AugUSt 

ment of equipment. Suggest additional equipment needed and find 
cheapest adequate kinds. Buy it and install if practicable. 

See how cheaply and tastefully a bed room can be renewed with 
home-made rugs, new paint, etc. 

Make a sillc or wool shirtwaist. 

Trim a school hat (choose and buy shape and trimmings). 

Keep a personal clothing account. (This may be help for a budget 
in the fourth year.) 

Plan the diet for a younger brother or sister and supervise carrying 
out feeding according to the plan. 

Plan and help in the preparations for serving the threshing hands, 
working out and ordering quantities of material necessary, cost, etc. 

Fourth year. Based on the three previous years' teachings. 

Keep a personal budget. 

Keep school lunch room accounts and pay the bills. 

Make a simple wool dress. Record amounts, tune, and cost. 

Make over a dress. Count cost and time. 

Make a winter hat, count cost and time. 

Make a spring hat, count cost and time. 

Keep family household accounts. 

Make an outline for household duties of all kinds, estimating time 
required, and giving proper assignments to various members of family. 

Two Types of Home Projects Worked out in Greater Detail 
(Suitable for Use in First Year Work) 

A. IN study of foods 

Pupil's Outline of the Project 

Statement of the project. The purpose of this work shall be to show 
that a meal or menu may be varied by preparing and using such familiar 
foods as rice, potatoes, eggs, apples, corn meal, etc., in a number of 
different ways. 

The amount of time and skill in manipulation required in preparation 
of each dish will be considered, also its food value and cost in relation 
to the rest of the meal with which it is served. 

Start with a definite weight or measure of potatoes and record any 
amounts added from time to time. 

Each time potatoes are to be served to your family, consult the person 
responsible as to plans for the rest of the meal and then choose and 
prepare a potato dish from the following list. (Recipes furnished by 
the home economics teacher.) 



1918] HOME PROJECT WORK IN HOME ECONOMICS 361 

Twenty-four ways of serving potatoes: Plain boiled (in salt water), 
plain steamed, plain baked, baked and stuffed, riced, mashed, creamed, 
escalloped, au gratin, maitre d'Hotel, potato soup, potato croquettes, 
potato salad, potato chowder, cottage pie, French fried, fried raw, fried 
(cold boiled), potato dumplings, potato cakes, potato puff, browned 
hash, browned whole, browned with meat roast. 

After each day you serve potatoes, record: 

Quantity of potatoes used. 

Number of people served. 

How prepared (recipe used). 

Cost of whole dish. 

Proportion left unserved. 

How long it took to prepare ready for serving. 

Whether length of time allowed for preparing was sufficient to do the 
work well. 

Whether the way in which they were prepared seemed pleasing to most 
of the people served. 

Any changes you could suggest in seasoning or preparation, to make 
them pleasing to more of the family and still use this way of serving 
them. 

The rest of the menu, and show why you think this was a good choice 
of way to prepare the potatoes, taking into account the cost in time and 
money, food value, etc. 

How much help, if any, you had in preparation today. 

Summary for Whole Project 

Estimate at the end of the work: The average weekly amount and 
cost of potatoes your family have used; the average cost of a serving. 

Which method of preparation has proved most popular? 

What are some ways you have found of serving potatoes besides 
those on the list given you? 

What is the value of learning a variety of ways for preparing a food 
like potatoes? 

B. IN STUDY OF TEXTILES AND CLOTHING 

Pupil's Outline of the Project 

f Statement of the project: The purpose of this work shall be to prove 
what treatment will give a pair of socks or stockings the longest use- 
fulness. 



362 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [AugUSt 

Start with a set of three pairs of new stockings for each of three people. 
The stockings in each set must be of the same quality. Give each of 
the three sets the same treatment as outlined below. 

Sew tapes into the top of each stocking and, with indelible ink, letter 
the sets respectively A, B. C. or a name initial. (There will be six 
stockings of each letter). Number the stockings of each set in pairs 
1, 2,3. 

Treat each set as follows: Pair One. Wash before wearing the first 
time and rinse out the feet each night after they have been worn. Put 
into the general laundry at regular intervals. 

Pair Two. Run darning cotton in heels before wearing the first 
time. Put into the general laundry at regular intervals. 

Pair Three. Wear first time without washing or darning in the heels. 
Put into the general laundry at regular intervals. 

See that the pairs are worn in regular rotation and kept mated after 
each washing. 

When holes come, mend them all once a week until darning seems no 
longer a reasonable way to mend. (The teacher should help decide 
this point). Patch when it seems best and re-foot if possible by a 
pattern pro\aded by the teacher. (This pattern may be obtained at 
the Home Economics Department of Ohio State University). 

Keep a record of: 

The number of days each pair has been worn. 

The number of times each pair has gone through the general laundry. 

The time spent in mending each pair. 

The length of time each pair has lasted. 

See if like treatment gave the same results in each set. 

Sufnmary for the Whole Project 

What number were the pairs that lasted longest? 

How much time had you spent mending and re-footing them? 

What numbers were the pairs that lasted the shortest time? 

Which of the three methods of treatment used seemed to make the 
stockings last longest? 

Suggest all the ways you can for using stockings after they can be no 
longer worn on the feet. 



1918] CONSERVATION AND THE FOOD BUDGET 363 

CONSERVATION AND THE FOOD BUDGET 

JEAN KRUEGER 
AssislanI Professor of Home Economics, University of Wisconsin 

Conservation! We hear it everywhere. And just as often do we 
hear groans about the "high cost of Hving." Field workers are asking, 
"But how can I tell my people that they must use substitutes, when 
they insist that to do so means added expenditure?" With prices 
higher than ever before, is it more difficult for the patriotic housewife to 
make both ends meet than for the woman who pays no attention to the 
requests of the Food Administration? 

In the light of this query, the food budget taken from the account 
book of the University of Wisconsin Home Economics Practice Cottage 
for the last three years, may be of interest. During the first semester 
of the year, the students in the household management class spend five 
days at the Cottage. They come in groups of three and under the 
supervision of an instructor buy, prepare, and serve food for four people, 
as well as care for the house and make time studies of the work done. 
Accurate accounts are kept and from them the following tables were 
compiled. 

During 1915 and 1916 the menus were planned on the basis of 35 
cents a day per person for raw food materials or $7.00 for the groups of 
four for five days. In 1917 the same amount was allowed, but "meat- 
less" and "wheatless" days and substitutes for various foods were 
required- It was a new problem for the girls to face and they "Hoover- 
Lzed" loyally throughout the course. In order that the comparison may 
be fair the same period of time — October through February — has been 
taken for each year. The work at the cottage during the second semester 
is of a different nature and has not been considered in this study. 

DISCUSSION OF ITEMS OF BUDGET 

Bread. Increase in expenditure due not only to gradual rise in price 
of white flour, but also, in 1917-18, to the use of barley, rice, potato, 
corn, and rye flours, all more expensive. 

Butter. Slight decrease, in spite of gradual rise in price, due to 
occasional use of substitutes on the table, one butterless meal per day, 
and entire elimination of butter in cooking. 



364 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [AugUSt 

Cheese. Increase in expenditure due to increase in its use as a meat 
substitute. 

Cream. Decrease in expenditure due to decrease in use. 

Eggs. Decrease in expenditure due to fact that during December, 
January, and February eggs previously preserved in water glass by the 
class were used. 

Flour and cereals. Increase in expenditure due to increased price as 
well as to the use of cereals, other than wheat, which were more expensive. 

Fruit. In order to conserve sugar more simple fruit desserts were 
served. 

Lard and suhstilules. Although no lard was used in 1917-18 and much 
less fat, the general rise in prices makes the decrease in expenditure 
very slight. 

Meat and fish. Decrease in expenditure due to decreased use of meat 
and increased use of "meat extenders" and fish. One wheatless day and 
one, later two, meatless days were rigidly observed. 

Milk. Increased expenditure due to increased cost and use. 

Sugar. Expenditure decreased in spite of increased price. 

Tea and coffee. A satisfactory coffee (21 cents) was used in place 
of the former 35 cent to 40 cent grade. This was thought to be an 
easy way of reducing the budget. 

Vegetables. The increased expenditure runs parallel with that of 
fruit and oils. The girls were urged to use fresh vegetables as long as 
possible and less canned goods. Dinner was always a breadless meal, 
9,nd to help take the place of its bulk, a second green vegetable — often 
in the form of a salad was served. 

Totals. The total expenditure for 1917-18 is less than either of the 
two preceding years. This indicates that the rather vague notion of con- 
servation increasing the already too high cost of living may be a subject 
for further investigation. Conservation, as carried on in the cottage, 
represents very careful planning on the part of the student. She spends 
no more time on the actual preparation of the meal, however, than the 
average housewife would spend, since full University work must be 
continued during the week at the cottage. Knowledge of food values 
and how to make good food combinations are undoubtedly the basis of 
the reduction in the budget. Workers in War Emergency are pursuing 
the right course in building up the housewife's knowledge of foods and 
teaching combinations as well as actual substitutes and preparation of 
dishes. 



1918] 



CONSERVATION AND THE FOOD BUDGET 



365 



5 Months (Octobtr-Fehruary) 



1915-16 



1915-17 



1917-18 



Bread, cookies, wafers . . 
Butter and substitutes. . 

Cheese 

Condiments 

Cream 

Eggs 

Flour and cereals 

Fruit, dried and canned 

Fruit, fresh 

Lard and substitutes. . . 

Meat and fish 

Milk 

Miscellaneous foods 

Oils (salad) 

Sugar 

Tea and coffee 

Vegetagles, canned 

Vegetables, fresh 

Total 



$3.44 

12.24 
2.02 
1.10 
7.11 
8.71 
5.03 
7.19 

11.54 
1.92 

29. IS 
5.23 
6.92 
1.60 
4.32 
2.30 
4.55 

12.51 



$4.99 

12.47 
2-89 
.78 
6.44 
7.00 
7.51 
3.26 
9.31 
2.60 

22.64 
4.99 

11.18 
1.50 
6.13 
3.83 
4.08 
8.38 



$4.83 

10.74 
4.19 
.97 
5.43 
4.91 
7.81 
3.71 

11.27 
2.11 

20.19 
7.77 
5.44 
3.10 
4.67 
1.93 
1.49 

13.30 



126.91 



119.98 



113.86 



In connection with this budget it is necessary to know the increase in 
price of the various items during the three years. 



Bread per loaf 

Butter, per pound 

Cheese, (American) per pound 

Cream per quart 

Eggs, per dozen 

Flour (white) 49 pounds 

Rice 3 pounds 

Lard per pound 

Oleo per pound 

Crisco i pound 

Milk per quart 

Oils: 

Wesson per pint 

Olive per quart 

Sugar 



1915-16 



$0.05 
.29- .36 
.25- .36 
.36 

.26- .36 
1.75-1.80 
.25 

.15- .16 
.21 

.25- .28 
.07 

.30 
1.00 
16 lbs. for $1 



1916-17 



$0.05-0.06 

.37- .45 
.28- .36 
.36- .40 
.34- .48 
2.75 
.25 
.20 
.25 
.38 
.07- 

.30 



.08 



12-1 libs, for $1 



1917-18 



$0.10-0.15 
.49- .55 
.36 

.52- .60 
.42- .47 
3.40 
.30- .33 

.34 
.45 
.11 

.40 

10 lbs. for $1 



366 



THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS 



[August 



Mentis for five days in December 
1915-16, average cost per meal per person, $0.1276 (raw food). 



Breakfast 
Grape fruit 
Ralston's, cream 
Toast 



Ralston's with dates, cream 
Eggs k la Goldenrod 
Toast 



Malaga grapes 
Oatmeal, cream 
Plain muffins 



Potato and hominy pattees 
Rolls, butter 
Orange marmalade 
Coffee 



Apple sauce 
Creamed chicken 
Toast 
Cocoa 



Friday 

Lunch 
Cream of tomato soup 
Wafers 

Succotash 

Corn muffins, butter 

Baked stuffed apples 

Saturday 
Lima bean puree 
Wafers 

Rice and cheese en casserole 
Asparagus salad 
Hot rolls, jelly 

Sunday 
Fricassee chicken 
Mashed potato 
Bean salad 
Apricot sherbet 
Angel food cake 
Cafe noir 

Monday 
Creamed chicken on toast 
Sweet potatoes 
Nut bread, butter 
Pea and bean salad 



Tuesday 
Chicken soup 
Wafers 

Peanut butter cakes 
Pea salad 
Apricot sauce 
Angel food cake 



Dinner 
Swiss steak 
Riced potatoes 
Tomato salad 
Prune pudding 



Pork chops 
Fried hominy 
Waldorf salad, wafers 
Soft custard 
Marguerites 

Fruit salad 
Nut bread, butter 
Chocolate 
Soft custard 
Angel food cake 



Pot roast 

Boiled potatoes 

Turnips 

Head lettuce salad 

Wafers 

Pumpkin pie, cheese 

Cafe noir 

Hash 

Scalloped potatoes 
Rice pudding 
Cream 



1918J 



CONSERVATION AND THE FOOD BUDGET 



367 



1916-17, Average cost per meal per person, S0.119 

Saturday 
Breakfast Lunch 



Grape fruit 
Oatmeal, cream 
Griddle cakes 
Syrup 
Coffee 



Prunes 

Com flakes, cream 

Muffins, butter 

Coffee 



Oranges 
Oatmeal, cream 
Toast 
Coffee 



Oranges 

Com flake, cream 

Muffins, butter 

Cocoa 



Stewed prunes 
Graham mush, hot milk 
Toast, butter 



Su.XDAY 

Rib roast beef 
Mashed potato 
Buttered peas 
Bread and butter 
Fruit salad with wafers 
Apple pie 
Coffee 

Monday 
Bean puree 
Scalloped celerj- 
Clover leaf rolls, butter 
Cherries 
Cookies 
Tea 



Tuesday 
Chicken soup, wafers 
Nut cheese roast 
Squash biscuit 
Blanc mange 
Cranberr>- jelly 
Tea 

Wednesday 
Baked beans 

Toasted cheese sandwiches 
Lettuce and pimento salad 
"Heavenly Hash" pudding 
Tea 

Thursday 
Creamed hash on toast 
Potato salad 
Baked rice pudding 
Tea 



Dinner 
Pork chops, gravy 
Boiled potatoes 
Buttered carrots 
Bread and butter 
Brown betty, lemon sauce 



Nut and cheese sandv 
Oatmeal cookies 
Chocolate 



iches 



Beef consomrad 
Wafers 
Roast chicken 
Bread stuffing 
Stuffed potatoes 
Baked squash 
Fruit salad, wafers 
MarshmaUow charlotte 
Cake 

Salted nuts 
Xmas candies 
Coffee 

Beef and rice casserole 
Cottage cheese salad 
Bread and butter 
Spiced pears 
Jellied prunes 
Coffee 



Grapefmit cocktail 
Creamed chicken on toast 
Potato patties 
Charlotte russe 



368 



THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS 



[August 



1917-18, Average cost per meal per person, $0,115. 

StJNDAY 

Liinch 
Meat loaf 

Escalloped potatoes 
Beet and lettuce salad. 



Breakfast 
Grapefruit 

Cornmeal griddle cakes 
Karo, butter 
Coffee 



Cream of rj-e with figs and 

top milk 
Barley muffins 
Butter, honey 
Coffee 



Hominy grits 
Top milk 
Buttered toast 
Marmalade 
Coffee 



Stewed prunes 
Oatmeal with figs and 

raisins, top milk 
Barley drop muflins, butter 
Coffee 

Stewed apricots 
Puffed rice, top milk 
Buttered toast 
Coffee 



mayonnaise 
Peach cobbler 
Coffee 

Monday 
Escalloped com 
Com meal muffins 
Butter 

Head lettuce salad 
Apricot sauce 



Tuesday 
Cream of potato soup 
Bean and pea salad 
French dressing 
Cornmeal parker house rolls 

Wednesday 
Escalloped potatoes and 

cheese 
Banana and nut salad 
Cocoa 

Thursday 
Mexican rice 
Corn meal crisps 
Stewed plums 



Dinner 
Toasted cheese sandwiches 
Oatmeal macaroons 
Cocoa 



Clear tomato soup 
Pot roast of beef 
Browned potatoes 
Mashed squash 
Asparagus salad, 

mayonnaise, wafers 
Fruit cup 

Honey cake, fig filling 
Coffee 

Baked fish 
Creamed carrots 
Lyonnaise potatoes 
Orange pudding 



Beef hash 
Creamed salsify 
Relish 
Pineapple tapioca 



"We in America are strong individualists, and we shall not lose the 
thought of the development of the individual in the development of the 
community. Is it not this spirit of mutual helpfulness that we need 
at present to develop? Is not this the dream of democracy, the hope of 
our country, and the realization of the Christian ideal?" — Helen Kinne, 
From an address delivered at the Southern Education Congress, Louisville, 
1914. 



1918] HOME ECONOMICS IN THE PUBLIC SCHOOLS 369 

HOME ECONOMICS IN THE PUBLIC SCHOOLS UNDER WAR 
CONDITIONS' 

ALICE A. JOHNSON 
Supen'isor of Domestic Science, Philadelphia Public Schools 

The supervisors in the Department of Household Economy in the 
Philadelphia public schools appreciate fully the unusual opportunities 
for special activities in all of the economics of the household. 

From the fifth to the eighth grades inclusive, the girls are learning the 
art of sewing and since "learning by doing" is our motto they are fash- 
ioning garments which are for the use of children in the war stricken 
countries. Because the garments are to go to those less favored than 
the makers, there is the greater reason for the stitches to be more 
carefully taken and the garments perfectly completed. This fine serv- 
ice for others produces in the sewing classes a spirit of helpfulness 
which is gratifying to the teachers of sewing and to the Supervisor, 
Miss Alice L. Keech. 

The girls in the seventh and eighth grades in addition to their sewing 
lessons spend about two hours a week in cooking and other activities 
in the kitchen. We plan to have the Cooking Centre a "Food Infor- 
mational Centre" in the community as well as a laboratory where food 
preparation and food values are taught to children. It is busy now in 
interpreting the messages sent out by the State and National Food 
Administrations. Mr. Hoover and his aides " Get the Facts before the 
People" and it is the duty of the teacher of cooking to make clear the 
meaning of these messages — to carry them mto the homes through the 
children — to translate such directions so that they are unmistakable to 
everyone within the circle of influence. 

In June and September the centres are busy preserving food for use 
during the school term, and at this time, special invitations are extended 
to the homemakers of the community to visit the cooking classes and 
see the methods taught the pupils. Wherever it is possible the teacher 
of cooking gives one or two public demonstrations in her school so that 
questions on the details of the work may be answered. 

The United States Food Leaflets are being used as supplementary 
text. A set of leaflets has been procured for each pupil attending the 

' Part of the discussion on Home Economics in the Public Schools, at the Tenth Annual 
Meeting of the American Home Economics Association, Atlantic City, March, 1918. 



370 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [AugUSt 

cooking classes, and a leaflet is given to each pupil, each lesson, and used 
as supplementary text for the lesson. The pupils prepare daily at least 
one recipe and when possible take home a sample of the food thus pre- 
pared, with the leaflet. Parents are urged to visit the class when other 
samples are being made. The leaflets on which there are no recipes 
are used as text for study, and a food described on a former leaflet is 
prepared. 

The term "Conservation by Substitution" acquires new meaning 
when the recipes for the substitutes are prepared in the class room and 
used as samples at school and at home. 

This winter when the Red Cross Bazaar was about to open, we were 
strugghng with the sugar embargo — and yet, who ever heard of a Bazaar 
without Candy I This was our opportunity and with guidance the 
pupils demonstrated that sweets can be made without sugar. Splendid 
cooperation was obtained in most instances and always, our teachers 
are standing directly behind the Food Administration, and their enthu- 
siasm and earnest effort are a force among their pupils — a troop of 
12,000 girls— all "Hoover Helpers." 



WHY EAT FOOD? 

A COLLEGE GIRl'S NONSENSE EXPLANATION 

What with the war in Europe and all, it is difficult to get a dietary 
standard with the glutinoids and celluloids properly balanced. 

A dainty jelly can be made from mountain ash berries and Le Page's 
Liquid Glue. The glue furnishes the necessary adhesion to make the 
whole mess jell. 

Doughnuts these days are traitorous unless fried in boiling water in- 
stead of Fat Soluble A . Put a bit of machine oil in to make them float, 
and then camouflage them as eatables by browning them in the oven. 

A delicious bread pudding can be made of absolutely anything, and 
bean soup made without beans fills the aching inner man as substantially 
as cement. 

"A family of five can live for a year on the things lying loose about 

the house," says Professor . 

— Shiix, University of Wisconsin. 



FOR THE HOMEMAKER 

CHANGING A PEACE TIME RATION FOR WAR TIME 

CAROLINE L. HUNT 
U . S. Department of Agriculture 

Human machines — men, women, children — differ considerably in 
their choice of the fuels from which they get the power necessary for 
work or play. They have an advantage in this respect over the steam 
engine or the automobile, which must take any kind of fuel that is 
supplied to it — wood, coal, kerosene, or gasolene. Some human ma- 
chines prefer to get more fuel from milk than from meat; others, more 
from meat than from milk. Some get more from cereal than from 
meat; others do the reverse. Some prefer fats to sweets; and others 
sweets to fats. 

In spite of differences in the kinds of diets used, it is safe to say that 
the average American who is not under the pinch of poverty gets about 
one-sixth of all the fuel he needs from vegetables and fruits — such as 
potatoes, tomatoes, apples, melons, berries, prunes. 

It is generally agreed that the raw materials supplied to the "census" 
family (father, mother, and three young children) or to a family con- 
sisting of two men and two women should supply about 12,000 heat 
units or calories. Some people refer to this as 120 one-hundred calorie 
portions. This is enough for a family in which the adults do rather 
hard muscular work like carpentry or housework including cleaning 
and washing. It makes allowance for all the unavoidable losses in 
cooking, serving, and digestion. It provides also for the fact that it is 
impossible to divide a given portion of food exactly according to the 
varying needs of the members of the family. One member is liable at 
any time, even with the best of intentions, to get more than his share, 
and, unless there is some margin, another would get less than needed. 

If the 12,000 are provided in the following way the diet will be amply 
but not extravagantly suppUed with vegetables and fruits: will be 
sweet and rich enough to taste good but will not contain more fat and 
sugar than desirable. 

37! 



372 THE JOUKNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [AugUSt 

Distribuiion of daily calories in the average healthful peace time ration for a family 

From vegetables and fruits 2000 calories or 20 100-calorie portions 

From milk, meat, eggs, cheese, etc 3000 calories or 30 100-calorie portions 

From bread and other cereal foods 3500 calories or 35 100-calorie portions 

From sugar, syrup, honey, etc 1200 calories or 12 100-calorie portions 

From butter, oil, bacon, cream, etc 2300 calories or 23 100-calorie portions 

Now comes our country's call to save sugar; cereals, particularly 
wheat; meats and fats. This means use honey and syrups in place of 
sugar; and fish, milk, cottage cheese, etc. in place of meat. But it 
also carries this message to the housekeeper: 

"Rearfange the calories in that peace time list so that fewer will be 
selected from fats, sweets, and cereals, and more from vegetables and 
fruits. Do not be content simply to use more vegetables and fruits 
but make them take the place of other foods." 

In the light of this interpretation of the message, the following facts 
about summer dishes as they are usually prepared from vegetables and 
fruits are significant: 

Masked potatoes — S50 calories 

Potatoes, 6 medium-sized, 2 pounds 600 calories 

Butter, 2 level tablespoonfuls, 1 oz 200 calories 

Milk, J cup, about 50 calories 

Lettuce salad, boiled dressing — 300 calories 

Lettuce, 1 head, 1 J pounds 100 calories 

Boiled dressing, i cup 200 calories 

Lettuce salad with oil — 500 calories 

Lettuce 1 head, 1 J pounds 100 calories 

Oil 4 tablespoonfuls 400 calories 

Creamed catdijlower — 540 calories 

Cauliflower, 1 medium sized 140 calories 

White sauce, 1 cup (milk, 1 cup; flour and butter, each 2 level table- 
spoonfuls) 400 calories 

Glazed sweet potatoes — 1930 calories 

6 potatoes, medium sized 13S0 calories 

Sugar, 3 cup 450 calories 

Fat, 1 level tablespoonful 100 calories 

Stewed prunes — 2100 calories 

Prunes, 1 pound 1200 calories 

Sugar, 1 cup 900 calories 

Baked apples — 1000 calories 

-Apples, 6 medium sized 550 calories 

Sugar, \ cup 450 calories 



1918] CHANGING A PEACE TIME RATION FOR WAR TIME 373 

Strawberries, cream and sugar — S75 calories 

Berries, 1 quart 175 calories 

Cream, J pint 400 calories 

Sugar, 6 level tablespoonfuls 300 calories 

Escalloped Tomatoes — 750 calories 

Tomatoes, 1 can or 2 pounds fresh 200 calories 

Sugar, 1 level tablespoonfuls : 50 calories 

Fat. 2 level tablespoonfuls 200 calories 

Bread crumbs, 2 cupfuls 300 calories 

There is no objection to any of these dishes, but the object in sub- 
stituting will be accomphshed better by serving some at least of the 
vegetables and fruits in ways that call for "no fat and sugar." 

Some vegetables and a few fruits can be eaten with salt alone. These 
include radishes, celery, and tomatoes. Cucumbers can be cut into 
strips and eaten like celery. Melons can be eaten with nothing added 
or with salt. Many fruits commonly eaten with sugar from force 
of habit are found far more refreshing without it. Prunes cooked 
without sugar or simply soaked are a good substitute for fresh fruit if 
served with lemon juice or with lemon juice and salt. 

All fruits contain sugar, but when fresh this sugar is dissolved in a 
considerable amount of water. It is only after the water is dried out of 
them that they seem sweet. The lesson from this fact is that if fruits 
are to take the place of sweets fresh ones must be cooked down as far 
as possible and dried ones must be made palatable without the addition 
of much water. 

Raisins dipped into boiling water and then put into a closely covered 
dish to steam make a good sweet to eat with the breakfast cereal. Dried 
pears are said to be a delicious sweet particularly if they are dipped in 
salt water before being dried. 

If apples are baked in a covered dish without sugar until their skins 
are soft, they can then be cooked down till they seem sweet. This is 
especially true of some varieties. To save room the apples may be cut 
into quarters. 

The sugary vegetables can be cooked down in much the same way. 
Carrots and parsnips may be boiled in water to which a Httle fat has 
been added till they are soft and all the added water is expelled. Sweet 
potatoes break up too easily for this method but can be cooked in a 
baking dish with water and a little fat. 



374 THE JOXJENAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [AugUSt 

The amount of food or fuel obtained from the vegetable and fruit 
supply will depend largely on the amount of waste. Potatoes that are 
to be boiled or baked may be blanched in much the same way as toma- 
toes by putting them in a frying basket and dipping them into boiling 
water for two or three minutes. The skin can then be removed with 
little waste. 

The calories which a family is willing to take from vegetables will 
depend partly on the variety of ways in which they are served. Potato 
salads, chowders, and creamed potatoes, for example, can all be varied 
almost endlessl)' by the flavorings used. The potatoes may be com- 
bined with beets, cucumbers, carrots, peas, tomatoes, beans, onions, 
pimientoes, green peppers. Others may be varied by the method of 
cooking. 

For a war time ration use vegetables and fruits abundantly. Choose 
waj's of preparing and serv-ing which require the addition of little or 
nothing that has any fuel value and that reduce their bulk by driving 
off their water. 



POINTS m SELECTING MEALS' 

FLORA ROSE 

Cornell University 

I. You Need Three Things from yoxtr Daily Meals. 

1. You need fuel. 

Your body must be kept warm and it must have energy for its work. 

The more work your body does the more fuel you must feed it. 

If you do not eat enough fuel food to keep your body warm and to do 
its work, your body will burn some of its own tissues as fuel and you 
will grow tliin. 

If you eat too much fuel food you may grow fat or you may clog the 
machinery of your body and injure it. 

2. You need building material. 

' The first of a series of lessons now in preparation. To be published by The Macmillan 
Company. 



1918] POINTS IN SELECTING MEALS 375 

You must supply all parts of your body, muscles, bones, nerves, blood, 
and the rest with those materials which they must have if they are to 
grow or to be kept in repair. 

If day after day you faO to eat enough of any material needed by the 
body for growth or repair your body will become worn out and damaged. 

3. You need body regulating substances. 

Your body works well only when your daily food contains various 
materials whose business it is to keep the machinery of your body running 
smoothly. 

Without these regulators your body could not bum its fuel normally. 
It could not set its building materials in place. It could not eliminate 
its wastes. It would cease to grow. Friction would occur. The ma- 
chinery of your body would be damaged and the engine would stop. 

n. Each Food You Include in your Meals Should Be There for 
One of the Following Three Reasons: 

1 . Because it is a good fuel food and you need the energy its fuel can 
give. 

2. Because it contains building material which your body needs. 

3. Because it can supply some body-regulating substance that you 
must have to make the machinery of your body run smoothly. 

III. You Need to Know Three Things About the Foo d You 
Eat: 

1. Which substances in foods give them their fuel value and which 
foods are the best ones for you to select as fuel foods. 

2. Which substances are needed to build your tissues, and which 
foods are the best ones to select for each building material. 

3. Which foods will give you the body-regulating substances that 
you need in a form which you can use to best advantage. 

Group I Fuel Foods. 

a. Most of your day's energ>' should be supphed by foods rich in 
starch. 

Breakfast foods (oatmeal, commeal, barley, wheat foods); bread of, 
various kinds; dried peas, beans, and lentils; vegetables rich in starch 
as potatoes. 

b. Some of your day's energy should be supplied by foods rich in fat. 
MOk Eggs Meat fats of various kinds 
Cream Fat meat Oils or foods rich in oil. 
Butter Bacon 



376 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [AugUSt 

c. Your day's meals are more palatable if some of your energy- is 
supplied by foods rich in sugar. Sugar is not necessarj'. Avoid too 
much. 

Sweet fruits and vegetables. Molasses Sugar 

Honey Syrups Desserts and candy 

Group II. Building Foods. 

There are four conspicuous building materials which you must con- 
sider in selecting your food. You need some of each, each day. 

a. Protein. 

Some of your day's protein should be supplied by one of these 
animal foods. One will replace another. 

Milk Eggs Cheese Meat 

Most of the remainder may be supplied by these foods. 

Breakfast foods (oatmeal, wheat, commeal, barley, rj'e, buckwheat, 
etc.); breads of various kinds; dried peas, beans, and lentils; nuts. 

b. Lime. 

Lime is necessary. Many dietaries are low in lime. 
The most valuable lime foods are: 

{!Milk contains more lime than a saturated Cheese 
lime solution. Eggs 

It is the cheapest lime food. 
Next in lime value are: 

Leaves and stems of plants, as: spinach, celery, lettuce, cabbage, 
onions, swiss chard. 

c. Iron. 

Many dietaries are low in iron. Foods best to supply you with iron 
are: Green vegetables (our most valuable source) ; fruits and vegetables 
as a whole ; breakfast foods and breads made from the whole grain (our 
cheapest source) ; eggs (excellent but expensive) ; meat (rich in iron but 
the value of its iron is questioned). 

d. Phosphorus. 

Foods best to supply your phosphorus are: milk ; eggs; meat; break- 
fast foods and breads made from the whole grain; dried peas, beans, 
and lentils. 

Group III. Body regulating foods. 

You must select regulating foods from each of these groups: 
a. Laxative foods: fruits and vegetables; breakfast foods and breads 
made from the whole grain. 



1918] SALVAGING FOOD CONTAI>rERS 377 

b. Foods containing salts, acids, or flavors needed by you: fruits and 
vegetables. 

c. Foods containing two unknown factors both of which you must 
have if you wish to grow or retain your health. 

1. The first unknown factor essential for growth and health is found 
in amounts suflicient for your needs in milk, butter, cream, eggs, meat 
(if you eat enough of it), cod hver oil. 

The following foods contain it in amounts which ^vill help but they 
are too bulky to enable you to eat enough for your needs. 

Leaves and stems of plants, as: spinach, swiss chard, dandelion greens, 
cabbage, onion, celery. 

2. The second unknown factor essential for growth and health is 
found in amoimts sufficient for your needs in milk and eggs; breakfast 
foods and breads made from the whole cereal grain; peas, beans, and 
lentils. 



SALVAGFNG FOOD CONTAINERS 

KATHERINE WICKER 
U. S. Food Administration 

"Just look!" and she waved me towards a table covered with an 
assembly of containers. There were white Dundee jars, jars from the 
"Purveyor to the King," screw-top candy jars, wide mouthed pickle 
and oUve bottles, jeUy glasses, seal-tight coffee and marshmallow tins, 
Educator tins with nicely hinged top, and even Sterno cans. All were 
shining clean and carried no suggestion of junk; on the contrary, the 
aggregation inspired a desire to store summer fruits like a pro\'ident 
squirrel. 

This woman didn't keep house, yet a year of small entertaining, occas- 
sional spreads, and in-between nibbling in her apartment, had yielded 
this treasure trove of containers. She had found someone who could 
use them, and arranged to pass them on in good shape instead of con- 
signing them to the junk heap. 

Many a household and some stores have on hand just such useful 
jars, and boxes that might be used for putting up fruits and vegetables — 



378 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [AugUSt 

canned, preserved, or dried. Clean bottles can be used for bottling 
fruit juices and catsup. 

In the face of the shortage of tin, and enormous demand for cans for 
commercial canning, it is true conservation to salvage these containers, 
which cost precious material and labor, and re-distribute them to women 
who can use them for storing food. America is inspired by a desire to 
serve, and the suggestion from a leader will start this work. The col- 
lection and distribution could be undertaken as a war activity by any 
organized unit in the community, such as the Council of National 
Defense, a missionary society or a local representative of the Federal 
Food Administrator. 



A WHEATLESS LOAF 

The following recipe developed in the experimental kitchen of the 
United States Department of Agriculture and the United States Food 
Administration is soon to be published by the Office of Home Economics 
on a new food card which carries directions for making a half wheat loaf, 
a one-fourth wheat loaf, and a wheatless loaf. 

The directions for making the wheatless bread are as follows: 

A LOAF OF BREAD USING NO WHEAT FLOUR 

Use 
AH of these With one oj these and One of these 

1. IJ cups liquid. 2. 3| cups barley. 3. 2\ cups corn flour. 

1 tablespoon corn sirup. 2f cups ground rolled 2\ cups rice flour 

J cake yeast. oats. 2\ cups sweet potaot 

2 teaspoons salt. flour. 

1 whole egg. 2| cups (scant) tapioca 

flour. 

Make a sponge of materials under 1 (except egg) and one-half of 
ingredients used from 2 and 3. Sponge should stand in warm place 
vmtil very hght, at least two hours. Work in balance of substitute 
mixture when sponge is light. Work in egg beaten slightly. Shape 
into loaf. Place in pan. Brush top of loaf with melted fat. Let rise 
to double bulk and bake in loaf pan in hot oven for one hour. 



1918] SHALL WE BUY MILK OR CREAM 379 

SH.'^LL WE BUY MILK OR CREAM? 

In most places a half-pint of cream (almost ^ pound) sells for the 
same price as a quart (about 2 pounds) of milk. Which is more eco- 
nomical for the housekeeper? Which is more economical from the 
standpoint of national economy? 

Both milk and cream vary in composition but roughly calculated the 
nutrients contained in them are about as follows: 

In 1 quart oj milk In \ pint of cream 

As much protein as in 5 eggs As much protein as in 1 egg 

2| level tablespoonfuls of fat 3 level tablespoonfuls of fat 

3 level tablespoonfuls of sugar i level tablespoonful of sugar 

In putting her money into a quart of milk rather than into a half- 
pmt of cream the housekeeper buys f tablespoonful less fat; 2| level 
tablespoonfuls more sugar; as much more protein as there is in 4 eggs. 

Looking at the matter from the standpoint of national economy, 
particularly of labor, we find that it takes more energy to deUver a 
quart of milk than a half-pint of cream but that the use of milk saves 
the labor of separating and of finding uses at the creamery for the 
precious food substances contained in the skim milk. 



ANOTHER METHOD OF STERILIZING GLASSWAREi 

The California State new law providing for the sterrilization of common 
drinking receptacles provokes many inquiries regarding approved methods 
of steriilization. Many requests, particularly, are received for informa- 
tion regarding a method which may be used in place of sterilizing with 
boiling water or steam. Following is such a method as prescribed by the 
State Board of Health. 

"The drinking receptacles shall be placed in a wire basket and immersed 
completely for a period of five minutes in a solution of not less than one 
pound of lye or caustic soda to each 2| gallons of water, the lye being of 
standard commercial quality and containing not less than 96 per cent of 
sodium hydrate. When practicable, the lye solution should be used hot. 
All traces of the lye should be rem oved by thorough rinsing or washing." 

Needless to state, the individual paper cup is recognized as compljdng 
with the provisions of the act. 

» Calif. State Board of Health Mo. Bui., Vol. 13 (Feb., 1918), No. 8, p. 357. 



EDITORIAL 

The American Home Economics Association at its Annual Meeting 
at Hull House and the University of Chicago, June 27-29, reafSrmed 
its platform, in the following statement. 

It is voted to work through the coming year, individually and col- 
lectively, in full cooperation with government agencies, to forward the 
following causes: 

I. To establish and maintain instruction in the elements of home 
management, including the principles of nutrition, the proper choice 
and preparation of foods, thrift and economy in the use of clothing, 
fuel, and other household essentials, to all girls in the higher elementary 
grades and in the high schools, at least in the first two years. 

II. Inasmuch as the administration of the household is of common 
interest and importance to both men and women, and the maintenance 
of the individual away from home also demands an understanding of 
these matters, to urge appropriate instruction for boys as well, as far as 
practicable, in matters relative to the welfare and maintenance of the 
individual and of the home. 

III. To promote the estabUshment of departments of home eco- 
nomics in normal schools and colleges and of courses dealing with ques- 
tions of public health, nutrition, and thrift, open to all students, both 
men and women. 

rV. To cooperate in the extension of home economics instruction in 
the conservation of food, fuel, clothing, and other household essentials 
to housewives desiring such assistance. 

V. To further, individually and collectively, the campaign for child 
welfare through the establishment of courses of instruction in child care 
and child welfare in schools and colleges, and through active coopera- 
tion with the Children's Bureau. 

VI. To aid all community enterprises which extend the ideals of 
Home Economics or promote the improvement and maintenance of 
health. 

VII. To support and maintain the Journal of Home Economics, as 
a means of extending knowledge of the subject and of promoting thought 
and discussion. 

380 



1918] EDITORIAL 381 

VIII. To promote research by encouraging and aiding investigations 
and research in universities, and by meetings local and national, in 
order that knowledge may be increased, and public opinion informed, 
and advancement made secure by legislative enactment. 

IX. To give active support to all legislation, state and federal, 
which aims to secure any of the ends which we are working to 
promote. 

X. For the above purpose, rally all the members of the national 
Association, to stimulate local and state associations to increased 
endeavor in these directions, and to ask for the cooperation of other 
existing volunteer agencies now engaged in related movements such as: 
The Federation of Women's Clubs, the Red Cross, Social Service Or- 
ganizations, Pubhc Health Nursing Associations. 

The Council of the Association is hereby authorized and empowered 
to take appropriate measures to forward this program. 

The United States Child Labor Law Unconstitutional. "If there 
is any matter upon which civilized countries have agreed — far more 
unanimously than they have with regard to intoxicants and some oLher 
matters over which this country is now emotionally aroused — it is the 
e\dl of premature and excessive child labor. It is not for this court to 
pronounce when prohibition is necessary to regulation, if it ever may be 
necessary. ... to say that it [prohibition] is permissible as against 
strong drink, but not as against the product of ruined lives." 

This is the language of Justice Holmes who gave the dissenting 
opinion in the case of Dagenhart vs. Hammer. Three justices con- 
curred in his opinion. But the majority — five — held that, to quote the 
language of Justice Day, "The necessary effect of this Act is, by means 
of a prohibition against the movement in interstate commerce of ordi- 
nary commercial commodities, to regulate the hours of labor of children 
in factories and mines within the States, a purely state authority, and 
[the act] is, therefore, unconstitutional." 

The court was unanimous in its recognition of the need which the 
Child Labor Act sought to meet, but the Act of September 1, 1916, by 
which Congress and the President sought to accomplish this end, they 
found to be unconstitutional. This Act went into effect on September 
1, 1917. The age and hour standards which it laid down were not so 
high as the standards of a number of states. They were practically 
identical with a larger number; and higher than the standards of some 
states. The children had enjoyed the benefits of this law for nine 



382 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [AugUSt 

months when it was declared unconstitutional by the Supreme Court 
on June 3. During that period the value of the Act was demonstrated. 
It proved that cooperation between state and federal enforcing agencies 
was possible, and mutually advantageous; it showed that with federal 
backing state laws would be better enforced, and it had taken the chil- 
dren out of mills and mines in those states in which the standards were 
dangerously low. 

Various plans are being suggested to meet the present emergency. 
Those who beheve that the tradition, estabhshed by Chief Justice 
Marshal a century ago, that the Courts may declare laws passed by 
Congress and approved by the President imconstitutional, is an unnec- 
essary extension of our check and balance system, are advocating a 
constitutional amendment expressly taking from the Supreme Court 
this power. Some want to follow the course taken when the Income 
Tax was declared unconstitutional. It will be remembered that eventu- 
ally an amendment was passed specifically giving Congress the power 
to tax incomes. So now some feel that an amendment should be passed 
giving Congress new general powers which would enable it to directly 
regulate or prohibit child labor. Others, and especially those who are 
looking for immediate results, think that a new measure can be prepared 
which will meet the objections the Supreme Court found in the one just 
declared unconstitutional. 

At this time when the young men of the country are being simi- 
moned by the nation for the defense of the nation and the world, when 
railroads and food and fuel are subjects of national legislation, when we 
are becoming accustomed to thinking and acting together as a nation, 
we shall surely be able to find some way of giving national protection 
to the children of the coimtry. 



BOOKS AND LITERATURE 



Any book or periodical mentioned in this department may be obtained through the 
Journal of Home Economics if the Journal price is listed. 



Everyday Foods in War Time. By Mary 

SwARTZ Rose, New York: The Mac- 

millan Company, 1918, pp. 117. $0.80. 

By mail of the Journal, S0.88. 

The publication of this little book, show- 
ing how to be patriotic and still live on 
one's income without impairment of health, 
is very timely. It is written in Mrs. Rose's 
characteristic style, giving scientific infor- 
mation in a simple and interesting way. 
It is full of material that will enable the 
housewife to solve the present food problems 
for herself. 

The book is a war message with chapters 
on the four foods to be conserved, and has 
an appendi.x containing a group of selected 
war time recipes. "The Milk Pitcher in 
the Home," in the opening chapter, treats 
of the indispensable food value of milk in 
the diet, with many illustrations and sug- 
gestions for its use to the best advantage in 
the daily meals. 

The teacher of domestic science will find 
the book valuable in connection with the 
practical use of all the war time substitutes, 
but especially in her work on relative food 
values. The nutritive food values of sub- 
stitutes and their relative cost is strikingly 
shown by a series of "score" tables of the 
staple foods. In the closing pages on 
"Being Economical and Patriotic," the 
great necessity of feeding our people at 
home the most nutritious of these substi- 
tutes, while sending such food as can be 
exported to the men at the front, is made 
vivid. 

Some one has said "We're learning how 
to save the shilling, and when the armies 
cease their drilling, the lesson will abide." 
Certainly the knowledge of food to be gained 
from this little book of Dr. Rose's should 
and will abide. 

.Anna U. Shepard, 
New York Public Schools. 



Chemistry of Food and Nutrition. By 
Henry C. Sherman, Ph.D. Second edi- 
tion, rewritten and enlarged. New York: 
The Macmillan Co., 1918, pp. xiv -f 454. 
$2.00. By mail of the Journal, $2.15. 
The author of this book is well and favor- 
ably known as a teacher and investigator of 
the problems of nutrition. Accordingly a 
student of home economics may gain some 
conception of the value of the new edition 
from the reviewer's assurance that it has 
been rewritten in the clear and unusually 
logical style that characterizes Professot 
Sherman's publications. 

Several kinds of information are espe- 
cially sought at the present time by the 
increasing number of persons who wish to 
familiarize themselves with the criteria of 
adequate nutrition. There is a demand for 
a clear exposition of the essential facts which 
modern research, especially within the 
past ten years, has contributed to the chem- 
istry of foods and the physiology of diet. 
Amino-acids, phosphatids, vitamins, metab- 
olism, lipoids, antineuritic and anti- 
scorbutic foods, dietary standards — thege 
are some of the expressions that even the 
intelligent layman is becoming more eager 
to understand. They are interpreted in a 
lucid way in Sherman's volume. 

Again, students of the subject are inter- 
ested to learn something of the history of 
the newer conceptions in the science of 
nutrition, and to gain an appreciation 
of the nature and sources of the evidence 
upon which these views are based. The 
author has succeeded with unusual skill in 
presenting the evolution of present-day 
conclusions in the light of such experimental 
facts as have prompted them. As an 
illustration of topics presented with an 
emphasis hitherto unusual in text-books of 
physiology, the chapters on the r61e of 
inorganic nutrients, on the antineuritic, 
383 



384 



THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS 



[August 



antiscorbutic, and growth-promoting prop- 
erties of foods, and on the economic use of 
foods may be cited. The work of American 
investigators has received a due share of 
consideration. Finally, the need of detailed 
information regarding the composition 
of foods presented for ready reference is also 
recognized in Professor Sherman's book 
which is likely to become a vade mecum for 
the professional readers of this Journal. 
Lafayette B. Mendel, 
Yale University. 

Health First. The Fine Art of Living. By 
Henry Dwight Chapin, M.D., Professor 
of Medicine (Pediatric Department) at 
the New York Postgraduate Medical 
School and Hospital. New York: The 
Century Company, 1917, pp. 221. $1.50. 
By mail of the Journal, $1.60. 
The development of the Safety First 
movement has ser%-ed to decrease the dis- 
abilities incidental to industrial life. The 
transference of attention to preventive 
measures in place of therapeutic agencies 
represents an advance in modern thought. 
Accentuating life and health instead of dis- 
ease and death conduces to a more normal 
state of mind. 

Chapin has aimed to present a book deal- 
ing with "First Aid to the Well." He ap- 
plies the common knowledge of the laws of 
health, that should be possessed by every 
intelligent person, in such a manner as to 
point out the possibilities of applied hygiene 
as a means to the maintenance and conser- 
vation of health. 

The author covers not merely the tradi- 
tional health rules applying to the body, and 
most usually referred to infancy and child- 
hood, but he considers the inter-relation of 
health and education as well as the moral 
influences which play a part in developing 
and fostering health and happiness. Chap- 
ters are reseri'ed for consideration of the 
"Health For The Middle-.-\ged" and 
"Health For The Old." 



The spirit of the book is wholesome; the 
style is simple, clear, and stimulating of 
interest and thought. The essentials of 
modern day methods of protecting the sound 
body against the attacks of deteriorating 
influences are expounded as part of an 
everyday gospel of living. The needs of 
life are covered "from the womb to the 
tomb." 

The little volume merits a cordial recep- 
tion in the home economics world because 
it is rational, sound, constructive, without 
being tiresome or burdened with confusing 
technical terms. It is a book that recog- 
nizes the limitations of the normal mind in 
its search for the rules of health. "Health 
First" is an excellent book for the laymen. 
Ira S. Wile, M.D. 



Our Schools in War Time and After. By 
Arthur D. De.\n. Boston: Ginn and 
Company, 918, pp. 335. $1.25. 
Teeming with enthusiastic appreciation of 
the patriotic service that girls and boys can 
render, this book is full of stimulation for 
those who recognize the new responsibilities 
of the school. Inspiring accounts of what 
has been done, and the pictures of possible 
future re-adjustments vnthin the school, 
make fascinating reading that will strengthen 
the teacher's resolve to respond to the de- 
mands of the time in every way possible and 
to make that response a means of develop- 
ment for the child. The chapters on "Bring- 
ing the War into the Schools," "The Oppor- 
tunities for Manual and Household Arts," 
and "Red Cross and' Community Work," 
treat very directly of the problems of the 
teachers of home economics and raise inter- 
esting questions that all will meet during 
the period of the war and after. Mr. Dean 
feels that already the answer has been made 
in part by the introduction of live problems 
into the school and by the reaching out 
into the community from the school. 

Carrie Alberta Lyford. 



1918] BOOKS AND LITERATURE 385 

BIBLIOGRAPm- OF HOME ECONOMICS 

PERIODICAL LITERATURE 
Bacteriology 

\\Tut We Are Doing to Prevant Tuberculosis .Among Children? L. I. Harris, Amer. 
Jour. Pub. Health, Feb., 1918, p. 131. 

State Health Departments and Municipal Refuse Disposal. E. D. Ruh, Amer. Jour. 
Pub. Health, Feb., 1918, p. 135. 

Practical Uses of Vital Statistics. S. Wynne, Amer. Jour. Pub. Health, Feb., 1918, p. 138. 

.A Welcome to Women in Public Health Work. Editorial, Amer. Jour. Pub. Health, 
Feb., 1918, p. 164. 

Bacteria in Dust. Et. Burnet, Annals de L'itislitut Pasteur, Dec. 1917, p. 593. 

Autolysis of Yeasts and the Influence of the Product of Proteolysis upon the Develop- 
ment of Yeasts and Lactic .Acid-Producing Organisms. Paul Vansteenberge, Atiuales de 
Vinstitul Pasteur, Dec, 1917, p. 601. 

Lactic Fermentation and the Salts of Thallium. Studies upon heredity. Charles Richet, 
Annates de L'institut Pasteur, Dec, 1917, p. 53. 

Tj-phoid in the Large Cities of the United States in 1917. Jour. Amer. Med. Assn., 
Mar. 16, 1918, p. 777. 

Typhoid in .American Cities. Editorial, Jour. Amer. Med. Assn. March 16, 1918, p. 780. 

The Dust Hazard in Certain Industries. T. Grier Miller and Henrj' Field Smyth, Jour. 
Amer. Med. Assn., Mar. 2, 1918, p. 599. 

Gastro-Intestinal Epidemic at Peoria, Illinois. Jo^ir. Amer. Med. Assn., Mar. 2, 1918, 
p. 622. 

The Peoria Outbreak. Editorial, Jour. Amer. Med. Assn., Mar. 9, 1918, p. 695. 

Public Health Problems in Cuba. Revista de Medicina y Ctrugia. Jan. 1918, p. 5. 

.Abstract in the Jour. Amer. Med. Assn., Mar. 2, 1918, p. 660. 

The Etiology of Epidemic Poliomyelitis. E. C. Rosenow and C. W. Wheeler, Jour. 
Infectious Diseases, April, 1918, p. 281. 

Nutrition 

.Asthma. .A Group of Papers by I. Chandler Walker, Jour. Med. Research, Sept. and 
Nov., 1917. 

Chemical Analysis of the Stomach Contents of 100 Pellagrins. Maurice Givens, Amer. 
Jour. Med. Sci., Feb., 1918, pp. 221-32. 

Achylia Gastrica. N. W. Jones, Amer. Jour. Med. Sci., Mar., 1918, pp. 335-43. 

Infantile Scurvy — Pathogenesis: An H\-pothesis. H. J. Gerstenberger, Amer. Jour. 
Med. Sci., Feb. 1918, p. 253. 

Diabetes. Homer and JosUn, Amer. Jour. Med. Sci., Jan. 1918, pp. 47-56. 

Diabetes— Past Treatment and Future Problems. Joslin, Bui. J. H. U. Apr., 1918, 
p. 80. 

Diabetes. Mellitus — Maintenance diet as determined by nitrogene quilibrium. Mosen- 
thal and Calsen, Ar. Int. Med., Feb., 1918, p. 268. 

Metabolism in Three Unusual Cases of Diabetes. Gephart, Aub, DuBois and Lusk, 
Ar. Int. Med., 19, (1917), pp. 908-920. 

Diabetes. Some Personal Equations and Pathogenic Coefficients. Anklassaira, Indian 
Med. Gaz., Dec, 1917, p. 439. 

Etiologj- of diabetes. Williamson, Brit. Med. Jour. Feb. 2, 1918. A summarj- of clinical 
experience. Thirty-one per cent showed prolonged excess in sugar in diet. 



386 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [AugUSt 

Glycosuria, Tests of Alimentary Hyperglycemia. Ed. Jour. Amer. Med. Assn., Jan. 26, 
1918, p. 236. 

The Effect of Undernutrition on Muscular Force. Williams, Ar. Int. Med., Sept., 1917, 
p. 399. Muscular vigor increased with increase of food tolerance, but not with an intake 
beyond tolerance. 

The Effect of the Injection of Dextrose on Blood Composition and Urinarj' Secretion. 
Amer. Jour. Physiol., 43, July, 1917. 

Cholesterol Content of Blood. Gorham and Meyers, Ar. Ini. Med., 20 (1917), p. 599. 

Renal Disease. Stengel et al., Ar. Int. Med., Mar., 1918, p. 313. 

Experimental Acute Nephritis. Goto, Joitr. Exp. Med., Mar., 1918, p. 413. 

Asthma. .Xdam, Brit. Med. Jour., Jan. 26, 1918. Result of recurrent bronchitis in 
children due to coddling confinement and carbohydrate, or to overfeeding and underexercise 
in general. 

Hay Fever and Asthma. Walker and .Adkinson, Jour. Med. Res., Nov., 1917, p. 277. 
A study of sensitiveness to various proteins. 

Immunity to Intestinal Obstruction. Dragstedt and Moorehead, /. Exp. Med., Mar., 
1918, p. 359. No increased tolerance was found after repeated attacks. No encouragement 
to procrastination. 

Thyroid Hyperplasia and Iodine. Hart and Steenbock, Jour. Biol. Chem., Feb., 1918, 
p. 313. 

Causes of failure of mixtures of seeds to promote growth. McCoUum, Jour. Biol. Chem., 
Feb., 1918, p. 303. 

MlSCELL.^NEOUS 

Present Status of Canning. Burden, Amer. Jour. Pub. Health., Mar., 1918, p. 195-6. 

Production and Conservation of Food Supplies. Bryce, Amer. Jour. Pub. Health, Mar., 
1918, pp. 185-190. 

The Influence of Heat on the Growth Promoting Properties of Food. McCollum, Amer. 
Jour. Pub. Health, Mar., 1918, pp. 191-4. 

Class Room Ventilation and Respirator>' Diseases Among School Children. Josephine 
Baker, Amer. Jour Pub. Health, Jan., 1918, pp. 19-26. 

The Chemistry of Bread Making. C. H. La Wall, Pure Products, Feb. and Mar. 

The Utilization of Citrus Fruits. .\ Summary of the Bulletin by F. A. McDerraott, 
Bui. 135, U. of Florida, .Agricultural Exp. Station, Pure Products, Feb., Mar., Apr. 

Jelly Manufacture. O. G. Gilbert, Pure Products, Mar. 

The Proposed Sale of Sterilized Meat. Boobbyer, Jour. Roy. San. Inst., 38-71, 1917. 

Food Rations for Manual Workers and Scientific Laboratories. Nature, Mar. 28, 1918. 

Toxicity of Organic Compounds to Insects Eggs. Moore & Graham, Jour. Agr. Res., 

12, 1918, pp. 579-88. 



NEWS FROM THE FIELD 



Saving in Hotels. The release of the 
hotels on August 1 from their pledge to use 
no wheat has brought out the following 
results of their cooperation with the Food 
Administration: It is estimated that hotels, 
restaurants, clubs, and dining cars of the 
country have saved, from October 1, 1917, 
to August 1, 1918, between 175,000,000 and 
200,000,000 pounds of wheat and its prod- 
ucts, as well as 150,000,000 pounds of 
meats and 50,000,000 pounds of sugar. 
The educational value of their conservation 
efforts cannot be computed. Many people 
first received the food saving message while 
traveling on dining cars or living in hotels, 
and carried the news home with them. 



recti ve exercises; propaganda; elementary 
psychiatry; foods and food values; elemen- 
tary anatomy and psychology. 

The South Carolina Federation of 
Colored Women's Clubs has put up 
20,790 quarts of canned fruits and vege- 
tables. At the eighth annual session in 
Orangeburg, the Federation declared its 
support of the Food .i^dministration and 
formed a Department of Food Conserva- 
tion. The Federation will also appoint 
women to look after the food work among 
colored people of the entire state, which has 
been divided into seven districts, one person 
having charge of a district. 



A Course for Health Instructors will 
be established this fall by the Wiscon- 
sin Anti-Tuberculosis .Association at Mil- 
waukee, Wis. This course, like the new 
medical science will stress preventi\e meas- 
ures. It is a direct outgrowth of war con- 
ditions in response to the call for trained 
workers to supplement the nurses and phy- 
sicians who are being called at this time in 
great numbers for overseas service. 

The home economics teacher, scientifi- 
cally trained, e.xperienced in teaching, 
already familiar with the relation of food to 
rules of health and their application, is 
especially well adapted to ser\'e in this new 
field, where proper nourishment is so im- 
portant a factor both in combating and in 
building up resistance to disease. 

The course, open to normal school and 
college graduates, will hold its first class in 
September, under the superv-ision of Dr. 
E. V. Brumbaugh. 

The course will include fundamental 
principles of health administration; social 
service; rural health inspection and its 
problems; first aid; health games and cor- 



War Kitchen for Southern Agents. 

A war kitchen established in New Orleans 
last .\ugust has led to the equipment of 
several hundred home demonstration kitch- 
ens in other parts of the South. They may 
be found in 78 of the 87 cities where home 
demonstration work has been introduced, 
Houston, Tex., having 8 of them. Out in 
the counties, in the small towns and county 
seats, rooms in courthouses, schoolhouses, 
and various public buildings have been con- 
verted into food centers for the use of home 
demonstration agents. State agents in 
.\rkansas and Mississippi report that there 
are demonstration kitchens established in 
more than half the counties in each of these 
States. 

A Canadian University Course In 
Household Science. McGill University 
has established a four year course in 
household science leading to the degree of 
Bachelor of Household Science (B.H.S.). 
The first two years are to be spent in 
Montreal, the last two at Macdonald 
College. The work of the first and second 
387 



388 



THE JOtTRNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS 



[August 



years will coincide with that of the 
corresponding years in the arts and science 
courses — a foundation in the sciences 
being prescribed. In the third and fourth 
years students will receive further instruc- 
tion in the sciences with special reference to 
their household applications and will be 
taught the technical work of household 
science, at the same time continuing the 
study of English and economics. 

Indian Squaws Organize to Study 
Foods. Indian women on the Indian reser- 
vation near Syracuse, N. Y., have organized 
a study class under the leadership of the 
county home demonstration agent of the 
United States Department of Agriculture 
and the State College of Agriculture. This 
is the outcome of a demonstration of can- 
ning and war cooking given recently by the 
agent at the reservation. The new organi- 
zation will study foods and later on the 
women will receive instruction in sewing. 

Farm Home Study Tours. Farm home 
study tours have been arranged in Yamhill 
County, Ore. by the home demonstration 
agent and the county agricultural agent to 
encourage better country homes, lighting, 
water systems, labor savers, interior ar- 
rangement, and decorations, sanitation, 
and conservation. The tours are made by 
automobile, five or six farm homes being 
visited each day. As many as 150 farm 
women and men have gone on one of these 
tours. Short talks are made at each stop 
by the agents, and the host and hostess are 
introduced and give briefly the method and 
cost of installing the particular convenience 
under consideration at that place. 

Notes. The Trustees of Pratt Institute, 
Brooklyn, New York, offer for 1918-19 three 
scholarships to daughters and wives of army 
officers, in household science, household 
arts, and institutional work. The latter is 
a one year course; the others are for two 
years. 



A transient hotel for girls arriving in 
Washington to do government work will be 
opened by the Young Women's Christian 
.\ssociation at North Capitol and E Streets, 
a few blocks from the Union Station. It 
will accommodate 150 girls and will be 
available only for short periods while a girl 
is becoming acquainted with her surround- 
ings and until she can secure permanent 
quarters elsewhere. 

\'acation Homes which will accommodate 
250 girls employed by the Government in 
Washington were opened by the Young 
Women's Christian .Association on July 15 
at Silver Springs and the Georgetown 
Preparatory School. The houses are espe- 
cially for the use of girls whose homes are 
too distant for them to return for vacations. 

By July 1, of the many applicants who 
had responded to the Government's call for 
student nurses to enter training schools to 
be established in the Base Hospitals of 
cantonments 300 had been accepted. Miss 
.Annie Goodrich, formerly of Simmons 
College is Superintendent of the .Army 
School of Nursing. 

The dining car services of the country 
have taken the open sugar bowl from their 
tables and limited serWce to patrons to two 
half-lumps or one teaspoonful of granulated 
sugar for every meal. This keeps safely 
within the two pounds per person per month 
ration, allowing part for preparation of 
food. 

Montana's legislature has created a divi- 
sion of child welfare to be under the super- 
vision of the State Board of Health. Tliis 
is the fifth such division in the country, the 
others being in New York, New Jersey, 
Pennsylvania, and Kansas. Important 
powers were added to the state health 
board, and valuable regulations affecting 
the work of public health and school nurses 
were passed. 



Vol. X, No. 9 September, 1918 

THE 

Journal of Home Economics 

For those interested in Homemaking, Institution Management, 
and Educational Work in Home Economics 

Mrs Auce P Norton Edilor Keicrah E. BALDmN, Managing EdtK' 

Edilorial Board 
Mrs. Mary H. Abel C. F. Lanoworthy Ethelwvn Miller Ruth Wheeler Amy Daniels 

Ex-Officio i/cmJrrJ— Edna N. Wihte. President American Home Economics Association 
Elsie Leonard, Chairman Institution Economics Section 
Katherine Blunt, Cliairman Science Section 
Agnes E. Harris, Chairman Extension Education Section 
Grace Denn\-. Chairman Textile Section 

Cnllaboralors— The Officers, Members of the Council, and Advisors 

CONTENTS 

How You Can Help Frontispiece 

The World's Food Supply and Woman's Obligation Jane Addavis 389 

The Clothing Situation Marion Welter 401 

The Friends of Captaln Sugar Emily Rose Burt 408 

The Food .Administration Capeteria Claudia Fitzgerald 411 

The Red Cross .and the High School Sewing Course Georgia Gray 414 

Preserving-Time 417 

f.ditori.al 418 

For the Homem.aker 

The Wom.\n's Committee Survey op .\cencies for the Sale op Cooked Food 

Helen W. Atwaler 419 

For Better Domestic Service 424 

St.\nd.\rdized Dress Ethel Ronzone 426 

How C.\N I Save Sug.\r on a 2 lb. Ration? 428 

Books .and Literature 429 

Books Received 431 

P.UMPHLETS Received 43 1 

Bibliogr-Aphy of Home Economics 433 

News from the Field 435 

T^z Journal OF Houx Economics is published monthly by the American Home Economics Association. 

J2.00AYEAR. FOREIGN $2.35. CANADIAN J2. 20. SINGLE COPIES 25 CENTS 

HOW TO REMIT. Remittances should be sent by Check. Express Order or Postal Money Order, payable to the 
American Home Economics Association. Currency, unless mailed in a registered letter, is at the sender's risk. 

NOTICE. When payment is made by check no receipt will be sent unless requested. 

CHANGE IN ADDRESS. Notice of change in address should be sent Two Weeks before the date of issue on which 
the change is to take eSect. The subscriber's Old Address should be clearly indicated in addition to the New Address. 

AMERICAN HOME ECONOMICS ASSOCIATION 1211 Cathedral St., B.\ltimore, Md. 

Entered as second class matter at the Baltimore Post Office 

TheJodbnal or Hovce Economics is on sale at John Wanamaker's, Philadelphia; The Old Corner Book Store, Boston; 

A. C. McClurl'j. CbicaKo; Baltimore News Company. Baltimore: Woodward and Lothrop, Washington 



Jim 



HOW YOU CAN HELP 

\\jiAT TO Save and What to Use 

times cadi day every American has opportunity to be of direct, 
n the iKittle front. 



practical lielj) t(i the men 

Save Sugar. Two pounds jier 
person per month is the American 
honor-ration. Try to eat less and 
arid to the National surplus for 
canning. Do this that the fight- 
in.L,^ forces may be kept fully sup- 
plied, and that England, France, 
antl Italy may receive their greatly 
restricted requirements. 

Save Beef. Food for fighting 
men. Save the large carcasses for 
them by restricting yourself to 
.small cuts, by-products and trim- 
mings — hearts, tongues, li\-ers. We 
have had enough increased supply 
of pork this summer to permit eco- 
nomical e.xpansion in its use to 
relieve the pressure on beef. 

Save Wheat. Keep on saving, 
though the harvest is large. Build 
up our reserves by persistent 
conservation. Without American 
wheat saved from the last harvest 
the Allied cause would have been 
lost. The margin next year must 
not be so narrow. 



Use Fruits. Take advantage of 
the natural sugar in fruits. Can 
without sugar, or with little sugar. 
Add sugar later, when it will be 
more plentiful. Dried fruits, such 
as raisins, dates, and figs have 
much s.ugar in them. Use honey, 
maple products, and sirups wlien 
available. 

Use Vegetables. Make local 
vegetables fill as large a place as 
possible in your diet, thus conserv- 
ing not only meat and wheat, but 
transportation and labor. Don't 
use canned goods now, while the 
fresh are available. 

Use Dairy Products. Always 
gi\'e tile children plenty of milk, 
milk products, and eggs. Use 
them yourselves freely now, and 
thus conserve meat for export. 

Use Fish. New species are 
being popularized and supplies 
increased. Eat this nutritious but 
perishable food several times a 
week and let the n.on-perishables 
go abroad. 



Our Efforts During the Fiscal Year 1917-18 Sent the Allies 
18,844,600,000 Pountds More Meat and Fats and 80,900,000 Bushels 
More Cereals than During 1916-17. From American Sources of 
Supply 1,956,400,000 Pountds More Sugar Was Shipped tilan the 
Pre-War Annual Average. 

How Many Pounds Will You Save for Them in 1918-1919? 



U. S. Food Admmistralion, August 5, 1018. 



THE 

Journal of Home Economics 

Vol. X SEPTEMBER, 1918 No. 9 

THE WORLD'S FOOD SUPPLY AND WOMAN'S OBLIGATION! 

JANE ADDAMS 

During the last three years every sympathetic man and woman in 
the United States has been at times horribly oppressed with the con- 
sciousness that widespread famine had once more returned to the world. 

At moments there seemed to be no spot upon which to rest one's 
mind with a sense of well being. 

One recalled Ser\'ia, where three-fourths of a million people out of 
the total population of three million had perished miserably of typhus 
and other diseases superinduced by long continued privations; Armenia, 
where, in spite of her heart-breaking history, famine and pestilence have 
never stalked so unchecked; Palestine, where the old horrors of the 
Siege of Jerusalem, as described by Josephus, have been revived; and 
perhaps the crowning horror of all, the "Way of the Cross" — so called 
by the Russians because it is easily traced by the continuous crosses 
raised over the hastily dug graves — beginning with the Galician thor- 
oughfares, and stretching south and east for fourteen hundred miles, 
upon which a distracted peasantry ran breathlessly until stopped by the 
Caspian Sea, or crossed the Ural Mountains into Asia, only to come 
back again because there was no food there. 

There is no dout)t that many Americans experienced a great sense of 
relief therefore when Congress finally established a Department of 
Food Administration for the United States and when Mr. Hoover, who 
had spent two and a half years in Europe in intimate contact with the 
backwash of war, made his first appeal to his fellow countrymen in the 
name of the food shortage of the entire world, insisting that "the situa- 

' Presented at the Eleventh Annual Meeting of the .\merican Home Economics Associa- 
tion, Chicago, June, 1918, and at the Fourteenth Biennial Convention, General Federation 
of Women's Clubs, Hot Springs, Ark., Apr., 1918. 

389 



390 THE joxjRNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [September 

tion is more than war, it is a problem of humanity." We were relieved to 
know that there was something we could actually do about it, and we 
received the instructions for our intelligent action and guidance with 
gratitude. I firmly beheve that thousands of people are striving every 
day to carry out those instructions in a spirit of humility, and cherish 
the hope that their efforts may prove to be of genuine human service. 

Mr. Hoover tells us that the food of the helpless Belgians has now 
become entirely dependent upon the exertions of the American farmer, 
and through the destruction of men and ships, one hundred milHon 
more men, women, and children have come to depend largely for their 
daily bread upon what can be sent from America — upon what the 
farmer may produce and what the women may save. 

We may diAide this hungry world into three groups : 

First, — The European Neutrals, who are all suffering. In Stockholm, 
for instance, food has increased in cost from 200 to 300 per cent; milk 
and flour cards have been in force for many months. 

Second, — The Central Powers, where in spite of governmental con- 
trol in the distribution of supplies and the recently acquired grain fields 
in Roumania and Asia Minor, food riots are becoming more frequent. 

The third group is the Allied Powers, those nations with whom we 
have entered into obhgations. Today each of the European Allies is 
ruled by a food controller and everyone is on Umited rations. 

The last harvest in France was less than 40 per cent of her pre-war 
harvests and is less than one-fourth of what she needs to feed her own 
people. France has had the hea\-iest burden of wounded, sick and 
crippled men and in addition one-thirtieth of her population are refu- 
gees from the war zone, their homes haying been destroyed and their 
fields devastated. This million and a half people are of necessity 
crowded into the houses of their fellow countrv-men, and tuberculosis, 
always high in France, — the death rate in normal times being twice as 
high in Paris as in New York, — has enormously increased because of 
overcrowding and lack of food. 

Parts of Italy are never able to produce enough food for all the popu- 
lation, even in normal times, which largely accounts for the enormous 
emigration every year to South America and to the United States. 
There has been Uttle emigration since the war began and the shortage of 
food in the southern prox'inces is heartbreaking. In addition they are 
caring for the half milHon refugees dri^■en southward by the Austrian 
drive in October, 1917, many of whom are found as far south as Sicih% 



1918] THE world's food supply and woulvn's obligation 391 

again superimposed upon the normal population. The American Red 
Cross officials are constantly urged by responsible Itahans to send food, 
which they consider more important than men or munitions, as quickly 
as possible, from the United States. 

In Roumauia there has been an increase of 50 per cent of population 
on the one-third of the land that is left to them, while at the same time 
the crops there have decreased 50 per cent. The suffering has been 
incredible; wounded soldiers in the very hospitals have died of starva- 
tion and have had their feet frozen in the hospital beds. 

Although Russia is the land of modern famines — the}- occurred in 
1891, 1906, and 1911, the latter affecting thirty million people — she 
has never experienced such loss of Hfe as tliis great war has brought 
her. Eight million of her people have actually perished and the myriad 
soldiers in the Russian army, never adequately equipped with muni- 
tions, food, and clothing, have been reduced to the last extremity. 

In addition Russia is suffering from a complete disorganization of her 
transportation facilities, so that whatever grain there may be in the 
south cannot possibly be shipped to Petrograd or Finland. There is 
something very touching in the belief revealed from time to time that 
if the situation could but be clearly stated in America, food would at 
once be sent. A Commission came last January from the Murman 
Railway employees. Seven thousand men, women, and children had 
wintered at the present termination of the railroad which was being 
built from Petrograd to Kola, the only open .port on the Arctic Ocean. 
Their supphes were giving out and they could get no more, for every 
bit of food which reached Petrograd was requisitioned there. There 
was no doubt that the situation was desperate and although manv 
Russians of Chicago donated their shoes — for which there was the 
greatest need all over Russia — and their money, it was impossible to 
secure the food and the transportation necessary for their immediate 
relief. 

It is possible to go on multiplying these tales many times but I am 
sure that these or similar ones are only too deeply burned into the con- 
sciousness of most of us. 

We all know that practically every nation in Europe is living on 
rations, and is destined to suffer privation for a long time. Our best 
efforts will no more than relieve them. 

The question is, can we, the United States, produce enough for oiu:- 
selves and enough more to make up the most bitter deficiencies? 



392 THE JOURNAL OF HOiiE ECONOMICS [September 

If we ask what has been done before when there seemed to be too 
little food in the world, we shall find that the deficiency has always 
been corrected by the application of human intelligence and human 
labor to the soil. The one thousand acres nearest to Paris is so care- 
fully cultivated that if the population of France should be doubled, it 
could still be entirely fed from its own soil if it were all thus skillfully 
tilled. The soil about Paris is not exceptionally good. It is said that 
the real French gardener first starts with a piece of asphalt, for he says 
he then knows what he has for a foundation upon wliich to make a soil 
to suit his purpose. He heats his soil with steam pipes and accelerates 
the growth of his product with electric light, and he finds it infinitely 
easier to grow two hundred thousand pounds of food from one acre 
than the same amount from ten acres. 

In response to the demands made in the United States last Spring, 
two million back yards and vacant lot gardens were estabhshed in 
1917, and the first war crop of potatoes was four hundred and fifty-two 
milhon bushels — an increase of one hundred million bushels over the 
previous year. Since the war began, England has placed a million and 
a half acreage of hitherto idle land into the production of wheat and 
potatoes, and three hundred thousand women of the leisure class have 
gone into agricultural work. 

The wages of these agricultural women are four dollars a week, they 
are housed and fed for three dollars and seventy-five cents a week under 
the protection and supervision of the Woman's War Agricultural 
Committees. 

Of the eight million women engaged in gainful occupations in the 
United States less than two million are in agriculture. It is estimated 
that at least three hundred thousand more must take the places of the 
two hundred and fifty thousand men already drafted from the farms as 
a million women are quickly taking the places of the milhon men drafted 
from various industrial occupations. 

Food, above every other production in the world, responds to indi- 
dividual attention. It is greatly benefited by being treated in small 
quantities, and quickly indicates the skill of the care-taker. It is quite 
possible that a more intensive method of American farming would 
actually produce more food; that we need "integration of function," 
as the economists say, and that if such a change ever takes place Amer- 
ica will make an entirely new approach to the food situation, and be 
much benefited thereby — another case perhaps of the results to be 
derived from casting bread upon the waters. 



1918] THE world's food supply and woman's obligation 393 

Those of us who have Hved among immigrants realize that there is 
highly developed among them a certain reverence for food. Food is the 
precious stuff men live by, that wliich is obtained only after long and 
toilsome labor; it is the cherished thing which the poor have seen come 
into their homes little by httle and often not enough, since they were 
children, until to waste it has come to seem sinful and irrehgious. 

Much may be achieved by utiHzing this reverence for food, and we 
may also help immigrant parents and their Americanized children to 
work happily and usefully together in food production. 

At Hull-House on last Thanksgiving Day a very charming little girl 
stood in the doorway of my room holding between her firm Httle 
hands a bowl containing corn meal mush which she had made from corn 
she had helped her Itahan mother to raise in a city garden plot and 
later ground in a coffee mill. The delectable yeUow mass was sur- 
rounded by syrup, also of their own growing, for in the same garden 
patch they had cultivated the sugar beets from which they had made this 
syrup. Apparently they had found much companionship and the use 
of all their faculties in these processes. Production might be enor- 
mously increased if the latent capacity in our immigrant colonies were 
utilized — if intelligent women not only worked themselves but organized 
other women to work with them. Something of this is being done in 
the community gardens, organized by the Chicago Woman's Club and 
doubtless by many other clubs, but a great extension of it is urged. 

Equally important with increased production is the necessity of 
sa\-ing food if we would "increase our exports to our allies to a point 
which will enable them to feed their own people." 

The women responsible for twenty-two millions of kitchens of the 
Nation are asked to give up certain old habits, to modify accustomed 
ways, to make a technical study of resources at hand and of what a 
family may conscientiously use. They are also urged to evoke the 
interest of their households and a sense of participation in a patriotic 
undertaking. The effort centers about three general propositions. 

First, eUmination of waste, which we have all learned from our mothers 
and grandmothers, although we too often forget to apply it. They 
made their own soap and candles from the 50 per cent of fat produce 
which is otherwise wasted in every kitchen. Fats at this moment have 
become very scarce and in the domain of their recovery and utilization 
hes one of the largest opportunities of conservation. There is also 
actual proof that it can be done. In certain cities after a campaign of 



394 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [September 

food conservation there has been a reduction of waste grease in the total 
garbage collection of 29 per cent, of other food material of 12 per cent. 

Second, an actual reduction of consumption. Perhaps this can best be 
illustrated from sugar. The pre-war consimiption in this country was 
the highest in the world, very close to four ounces per day per capita. 
Much of it took place in the little shops, multiplied so rapidly during 
the last few years, which are devoted to the sale of sweets and soft 
drinks to juveniles and young people. If we reduced the per capita 
consumption of sugar one ounce per diem, this alone would set free 
for export over one million tons of sugar per anmmi, and we would 
still be eating much more than tlie other nations do, sixty-five pounds 
per capita per year for us in contrast to nineteen pounds per capita 
per year in France. 

Third, the substitution of foods, which cannot be readily sliipped, 
for those which ship to the greatest advantage — corn for wheat, poultry 
and fish for dressed meats, and the others with which you are all so 
familiar. 

The instruction as to the proper substitutes is one of the most im- 
portant undertakings of the Department of Food Administration and 
also one of the most difficult. This is partly due to the fact that during 
the last twenty-five years women have been taught the relation of 
disease to improper feeding, with the happy result that rachitis and 
other ills due to malnutrition are disappearing among children, but 
because of this instruction many women have become timid in regard 
to making changes. It is not necessary to tell an audience such as this 
that there is no necessity of underfeeding any child in America or of 
menacing the health of any household, if only every mother and every 
housekeeper is made intelligent in regard to the changes required in 
her daily regimen. 

People change their food habits very slowly; we all like best "what 
Mother used to make." Immigrants in America sometimes continue 
for years to import their accustomed foods. To make radical changes 
in our food habits requires a genuine incentive and a driving motive. 
It imphes a struggle, none the less real, because it is concerned with 
domestic adjustments. The effort which is now being demanded 
from women is in a sense but part of that long struggle from the blind- 
ness of individuality to the consciousness of common ends — almost an 
epitome of human progress itself. 



1918] THE world's food supply and woman's obligation 395 

There are other things which women are doing in addition to careful 
administration of their kitchens. In Michigan, for instance, last spring 
thousands of women tested the seed corn so that the crop might not be 
reduced through the planting of dead corn. 

In Florida the women have found that quantities of vegetables raised 
in that state are shipped north to be canned and back again to be eaten, 
so that they pay freight both ways, a practice which they intend to 
change and are changing rapidly at this very moment. 

In Idaho and in other states where the crop of potatoes last year 
exceeded the local demand and where there is insufficient transporta- 
tion — it is never really adA-antageous to ship potatoes for a long dis- 
tance because they contain such a large percentage of water — the 
women are agitating for dehydrating plants that the potatoes may 
either be shipped after the water has been extracted or made into potato 
flour. 

Food conservation may mean many things, as has recently been 
pointed out in a circular issued by the Department of Educational Prop- 
aganda of the Woman's Committee of the Council of National Defense; 
it may mean direct purchasing through the parcels post, municipal 
markets, cooperative deUvery, as the new agricultural movement in 
North Dakota and elsewhere includes road making, storage, transporta- 
tion, cooperative distribution, and many other things. 

Women taking the places of men need not carry on the acti\'ities in 
exactly the old lines, they may have an opportunity to improve at least 
some of the methods — the distribution of milk for instance — and they 
are certainly under obligations to maintain labor standards. It may 
be easier for them than it is for men to obtain some of these results, on 
the same principle that it is always easier to secure legislation limiting 
the hours of women in industry than it is to secure the same legislation 
for men. 

From the time we were little children we have all of us, at moments 
at least, cherished overwhelming desires to be of use in the great world, 
to play a conscious part in its progress. The difficulty has always been 
in attaching our vague purposes to the routine of our daily hving, in 
making a sjmthesis between our ambitions to cure the ills of tlie world 
on the one hand and the need to conform to household requirements on 
the other. 

It is a very significant part of the situation, therefore, that at this world's 
crisis the two have become absolutely essential to each other. A great 



396 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [September 

world purpose cannot be acliieved without our participation founded 
upon an intelligent understanding — and upon the widest sympathy; at 
the same time the demand can be met only if it is attached to our domes- 
tic routine, its very success depending upon a conscious change and 
modification of our daily habits. 

It is no slight undertaking to make this s^-n thesis; it is probably the 
most compelling challenge which has been made upon woman's con- 
structive powers for centuries. They must exert all their human affec- 
tion and all their clarity of mind in order to make the great moral adjust- 
ment which the situation demands. 

But what have women's clubs done for us, of what worth is the 
comradeship and study carried on through so many years, if they can- 
not serve us in a great crisis Hke this? Through the earher years of the 
Women's Club movement there was much abstract study of history, 
literature, science and the arts, as if both those women who had been 
deprived of the stimulus which collective intellectual effort brings and 
those women who had sadly missed their old college companionships 
were equally determined to find it through the widely organized clubs. 
It was rather the fashion in those earlier days to make fun of this studi- 
ous effort, it was called fooHsh and superficial and a woman was some- 
times told that it would be much better for her to study the art of darn- 
ing her husband's stockings and the science of cooking his meals. 

Nevertheless the women kept on with a sound instinct, perhaps, for 
what they needed most — a common background and a mutual under- 
standing, in short the very cultivation which has so wonderfully il- 
lumined and unified the practical affairs which they have undertaken 
during these later years. And because thousands of women made a 
sustained effort to comprehend the world in which we live it may now 
be possible to summon to the aid of women everywhere an under- 
standing of woman's traditional relation to food, of her old obligation 
to nurture the world. We may be able to thus hft the challenge of 
the present moment into its historic setting. 

Back of history itself are innumerable myths dealing with the Spirits 
of the Corn who are always feminine and are usually represented by a 
Corn Mother and her daughter, vaguely corresponding to the Greek 
Demeter — the always fostering Earth and her child Persephone — the 
changing seasons. 

In Eraser's "Golden Bough" two large volumes are given over to the 
history and interpretation of these Spirits of the Corn. 



1918] THE world's food supply and woman's obligation 397 

He tells us that relics of the Corn Mother and the Corn Maiden are 
found in nearly all the harvest fields of the world, with very curious old 
customs. In many countries the last sheaf is bound in the shape and 
even put into the clothes of an old woman and is then taken to the 
threshing floor where everything is done to please her. She is offered 
all the food and drink of the harv'est home supper, that there may be a 
full harvest next year. The Corn Mother is also found among many 
tribes of North American Indians and the Eastern world has its Rice 
Mother, for whom there are solemn ceremonies when the seed rice, 
believed to contain "soul stuff," is gathered. These deities are always 
feminine, as is perhaps natural from the association with fecundity and 
growth. 

Closely related to these old goddesses is much of the poetry and song 
which have gathered about the sowing of the grain and the gathering 
of the har\' est, and those saddest plaints of all, expressing the sorrows of 
famine. 

The Musical Clubs doubtless know them, certainly the Irish ones, as 
the Graphic Arts Departments are familiar with the renaissance in 
beauty which came with the Barbizon School, when the artists seriously 
concerned themselves with the toiling peasants of France. 

Perhaps those women who cared most for history and the study 
of early social customs will be the first to reaUze that these myths center- 
mg about the Corn Mother but dimly foreshadowed what careful scien- 
tific researches have later verified and developed. Students of primitive 
society beUeve that women were the first agriculturists and were for a 
long time the only inventors and developers of its processes. The men 
of the tribe did Httle for cultivating the soil beyond clearing the space 
and sometimes surrounding it by a rough protection. The woman as 
consistently supplied all cereals and roots eaten by the tribe as the 
man brought in the game and fish, and in early picture writing the short 
hoe became as universally emblematic of the woman as the spear did of 
the hunter or the shield and battle axe of the warrior. In some tribes it 
became a fixed belief that seeds would not grow if planted by a man, 
and apparently all primitive peoples were convinced that seeds would 
grow much better if planted by women. In Central Africa to this day 
a woman may obtain a divorce from her husband and return to her 
father's tribe, if the former fails to provide her with a garden and a hoe. 

Those women who persistently kept up a study class in such 
stiff subjects as Comparative Religions and Philosophy, know how often 



398 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [September 

a wide spread myth has its counterpart in the world of morals. This 
was certainly true of the behef in the "fostering Mother." Students in 
the origin of social customs contend that the gradual change from the 
wasteful manner of nomadic life to a settled and much more economic 
mode of existence may be fairly attributed to these primitive agricul- 
tural women. We can easily imagine that when the hunting was poor, 
or when the flocks needed a new pasture, the men of the tribe would 
be for moving on, but the women might insist that they could not 
possibly go until the crops were garnered; and that if the tribe were 
induced to remain in the same caves- or huts until after harvest the 
women might even timidly hope that they could use the same fields 
next year, and thus avert the loss of their children sure to result from 
the alternation of gorging when the hunt was good and of starving when 
it was poor. The desire to grow food for her children led to a fLxed 
abode and a real home from which our domestic morality and customs 
are supposed to have originated. With such an historic background, it 
is perhaps not surprising that peasant women all over the world are 
still doing a large part of the work connected with the growing and 
preparation of foods. One sees them in the fields in every country of 
Europe; by every roadside in Palestine they are grinding at the hand 
mills; in Egypt they are forever carrying the water of the Nile that the 
growing com may not perish. American women — even the wives of 
ill-paid working men and the pioneer women on remote ranches have 
been relieved of much of this primitive drudgery, if only through the 
invention of plumbing and of farm machinery. 

European visitors never cease to marvel at the leisure of .'\merican 
women, of the very sort from whom club women are largely drawn. 
The American woman is not, however, relieved of her responsibilities, 
and it is well if she has so utilized her unprecedented leisure that at this 
moment in response to a great crisis she is able to extend her s>anpathies 
and to enlarge her conception of duty in such wise that the conscious- 
ness of the world's needs becomes the actual impulse of her daily 
activities. 

A generous response to this situation may afford an opportunity to 
lay over again the foundations for a wider morality, as woman's con- 
cern for feeding her children made the beginning of an orderly domestic 
life. We are told that when the crops of grain and roots so painstak- 
ingly produced by primitive women began to have a commercial value 
their production and exchange was taken over by men, as they later 



1918] THE world's food supply and wom.-vn's obligation 399 

took over the manufacturing of pottery and other of woman's early- 
industries. Such a historj', of course, but illustrates that the present 
situatian may be woman's opportunity if only because foods at this 
moment are no longer being regarded from their money-making value 
but from the point of view of their human use. 

In these dark years, so destructive of the old codes, the nations, 
forced back to their tribal function of producing and conserving food, 
are developing a new concern for the feeding of their peoples. All food 
supplies have long been collected and distributed through the utiliza- 
tion of the commercial motive. When it was commercially valuable to 
a man, to a firm, or a nation, food was shipped; when it was not com- 
mercially valuable, food was withheld or even destroyed. At the pres- 
ent moment, however. Just as the British government has undertaken 
the responsibility of providing the British Isles with imported food, so 
other belligerent and neutral nations have been obliged to pursue the 
same course in order to avert starvation. Commercial competition 
has been suppressed, not in response to any theory, but because it could 
not be trusted to feed the feeble and helpless. There is no doubt that 
even after Peace is declared the results of starvation arising from the 
world's shortage of food, will compel these governments to continue 
and even extend their purchasing in other lands. But such a state of 
affairs will itself indicate a new order — the substitution of the social 
utility motive for that of commercial gain. The nations in their official 
relations to each other totally lack that modification which has come 
in their internal politics by the increasing care of the poor, the concern 
for the man at the bottom, which has led to all sorts of ameliorative 
legislation, including the protection and education of children. In 
international affairs the nations have still dealt almost exclusively with 
pohtical and commercial affairs considered as matters of "rights," con- 
sequently they have never been humanized in their relations to each 
other as they have been in their internal affairs. 

It is quite understandable that there was no place for woman and 
her possible contribution in these international relationships; they were 
indeed not "woman's sphere." But is it not quite possible that as 
women entered into city poHtics when clean milk and sanitary housing 
became matters for municipal legislation, as they have consulted state 
officials when the premature labor of children and the tuberculosis 
death rate became factors in a political campaign, so they may normally 
be concerned ■with international affairs when these are deahng with such 



400 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [September 

human and poignant matters as food for the star\'ing and the rescue of 
women and children from aimihilation? 

There are unexpected turnings in the paths of moral evolution and it 
would not be without precedent if, when the producing and shipping of 
food was no longer a commercial enterprise but had been gradually 
shifted to a desire to feed the hungry, a new and powerful force in in- 
ternational affairs would have to be reckoned with. 

The instinct to feed those with whom we have made alliances cer- 
tainly bears an analogy to those first interchanges between tribe and 
tribe, when a shortage of food became the humble beginning of ex- 
change. At the present moment the Allied Nations are collecting and 
conserving a common food supply and each nation is facing the neces- 
sity of making certain concessions to the common good that the threat 
of famine for all may be averted. A new internationalism is being 
established day by day ; the making of a more reasonable world order, so 
cogently urged by the President of the United States, is to some extent 
already under way, the war itself forming its matrix. An Enghsh econ- 
omist has recently pointed out that in Europe generally the war has 
thus far thrown the custom tariffs flat. Are they, perhaps, disappearing 
under this onslaught of energized pity for world wide-needs? And is a 
motive power, new in the relations between nations, being evolved in 
response to hunger and love, as the earlier domestic ethics had been? 
Under this new standard of measurement, preferential tariffs ine^dtably 
disappear because the nation denied the open door must suffer in its 
food supplies; the control of strategic waterways or interstite railroad 
lines by any one nation who might be tempted to consider only the 
interest of its own commerce becomes unthinkable. 

It is possible that the more sophisticated questions of national group- 
ing and territorial control vdW gradually adjust themselves if the para- 
mount human question of food for the hungry be fearlessly and dras- 
tically treated upon an international basis. The League of Nations, 
destined to end wars, upon which the whole world, led by President 
Wilson, is fastening its hopes, may be founded not upon broken bits of 
international law, but upon ministrations to primitive human needs, 
as all the really stable political institutions in the world have been. 

In this great undertaking women may bear a valiant part if they but 
stretch their minds to comprehend what it means in this world crisis to 
produce food more abundantly and to conserve it \vith wisdom. 



1918] THE CLOTHING SITUATION 401 

THE CLOTHING SITUATION^ 

MARION ■\\'ELLER 
University of Minnesota 

The clothing factor is gaining more and more of our attention as we 
come to realize that we are in a war that must be won through the com- 
plete cooperation of all the people and all the industries in the country. 

The recent decision of the Government to make the Commercial 
Economy Board of the National Council of Defense in Washington a 
part of the Conservation Department of the War Industries Board and 
further to create a Textiles Division in this department, with three sec- 
tions, a wool, a cotton, and a silk section, confirms our belief that a cam- 
paign of clothing conservation work, educational in character, is needed 
in every state in this country to help further the work of equipping the 
army, and clothing the people at home. 

A discussion of our clothing problems must include a survey of the 
wool situation and the work of the various agencies enlisted in meeting 
the very dangerous shortage that is threatening; a summary of the pres- 
ent status of cotton, linen, and silk; and an outline of work that is being 
done and must be done through the cooperation of school, home, and 
community. 

Before we became involved in this great world struggle things came 
easily, food of all kinds was abundant, and an infinite variety of clothing 
was taken as a matter of course. To be sure, many of us were beginning 
to recognize that there were real clothing problems — problems economic, 
social, and ethical, and that for the good of the women of this country 
these problems must be solved. But it had never occurred to us that 
there could ever be a lack of the things we wanted, so long as we possessed 
the money to pay for them. Cotton was abundant and cheap; wool we 
must have, of course. The fact that for some fifteen years our whole pro- 
duction was steadily on the decline, resulting in a decrease of 25 per cent 
in production, gave us no alarm. There was wool enough in the world and 
we had our share from Australia, New Zealand, South Africa, and the 
Argentine. 

Now we are face to face with the fact that we have not enough wool;; 
that not only are the needs of an increasing population to be met, but 

'Presented at the Eleventh .\nnual Meeting of the .American Home Economics Associa- 
tion, Chicago, June, 1918. 



402 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [September 

that we have an enormous army to equip, and that we must help clothe 
our allies as well as send them food. Further, we must rely largely upon 
our own resources for raw material. Shipping cannot be diverted to the 
bringing of a bulky product such as wool from the far ends of the earth. 

Nearly two years ago men in touch with the wool situation became 
somewhat uneasy. The Philadelphia Wool and Textile Association, 
representing one of the largest textile sections in the world, took the matter 
up energetically and entered into a national campaign for an immediate 
increase in the flocks of the United States, and for the protection of sheep 
from dogs in the various states. A "More Sheep — More Wool" cam- 
paign was launched. The help of the Pennsylvania State College of 
Agriculture and the United States Department of Agriculture was en- 
listed and literature in the form of bulletins, folders, and posters was 
scattered far and wide; various lines of extension work leading to the 
raising of more sheep were pushed. Every farmer was urged to raise a 
few sheep. Boys and girls sheep clubs were formed. Ways of market- 
ing the wool were studied; and legislation leading to the doing away with 
the ravages of dogs was gotten under way. 

Statistics collected showed that there were less than 50 millions of 
sheep in the United States. There should be three times the number 
to supply the present demand for wool. A fully equipped soldier requires 
13 times as much wool as the civilian. With the 1916 consumption of 
wool as a basis a little over 8 pounds of wool per year are required for the 
civilian, and 106 pounds are needed to equip a soldier, while In service 
the requirements per man are estimated to be from 125 to 190 pounds a 
year. This means that practically all the wool in sight is covered for 
government requirements. We must have 20 or more sheep back of 
every soldier in our army and navy, and every farmer in the country must 
do liis share toward raising these sheep. It is asserted that six out of 
seven farms in the country have no sheep and that only enough wool is 
being raised to make one suit for each inhabitant every four years. 

The latest report on the wool situation from the United States De- 
partment of Agriculture shows that the "More Sheep" campaign is 
bringing results. There was an increase of 1 J million sheep in the year 
1917. The campaign is spreading into many states, and all reports from 
wool-growers associations show a definite effort to help meet the serious 
shortage by increasing flocks. In our state of Minnesota farmers are 
being urged to utilize the cut over lands of the state for grazing; and in 
other states ways and means are being sought to create a paying industry. 



1918] THE CLOTHING SITUATION 403 

Investigations into the causes of the very serious decKne in the sheep 
population of our fanning sections have brought to light the fact that 
the roaming dog is one of the main causes for the decrease. We are said 
to have about 25,000,000 dogs in the United States. Last year out of the 
three million sheep in the state of Ohio, dogs killed 25,000. The same 
story comes from the farming districts in all of our eastern, central, and 
southern states. There is very general recognition of the fact that the 
regulation and restriction of the dog has become a national economic 
proposition, and many states are passing and enforcing laws for such 
regulation. 

The work of the Commercial Economy Board for the past year, leading 
toward conservation of clothing materials should also be noted. This 
Board issued to all manufacturers and makers of clothing and garments 
the following recommendations: first, that they avoid excessive mul- 
tiplicity of styles, confining themselves to the number of models actually 
required by the trade; second, that they avoid models having needless 
adornments, such as belts on coats, cuffs, unnecessary pleats; third, 
that they use cloth in which re-worked wool and cotton are in part sub- 
stituted for wool, and that they reduce the average weight of fabrics; 
fourth, that they make models that require the least practical amount of 
cloth; fifth, that they reduce the amount of cloth used for samples; 
SLxth, that they design fewer fabrics and confine their designs as much as 
possible to standard construction and standard colors, doing away with 
novelty fabrics. They also recommended that all schools and colleges 
giving military training be asked to uniform their students in clothing 
containing 25 per cent or more of wool substitutes. 

It is estimated that this simplification of clothing, with greater stand- 
ardization of quahty, color, weave structure, and style, will save 40 per 
cent in material for men's clothing, and 25 per cent for women's clothing. 
This calculation is, of course, made on the basis of a wool supply. 

By eliminating their method of sending out samples, wholesale cloth- 
ing manufacturers estimated that enough wool would he saved to make 
uniforms for 67,000 soldiers. The ruling which cut off 6 inches from the 
length of the army overcoat made it possible for manufacturers in Phila- 
delphia alone to save enough cloth for 31,250 army overcoats on con- 
tracts for 750,000 coats. A later ruling reducing the length 10 inches 
instead of 6 inches is allowing a still greater saving. 

The government has not yet determined what quantities of wool are 
held by manufacturers nor the extent of the 1918 chp. Demands have 



404 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [September 

been made by the War Industries Board for information as to the quan- 
tity of wool in the possession of manufacturers and of dealers, but until 
replies have been received and tabulated it will not be possible for the 
government even to estimate how much wool will be available for filling 
civilian orders. It is stated by those who are closest in touch with the 
situation that an army of 5,000,000 would mean absolutely no wool left 
in this country next year for civilian purposes. 

The recent action of the War Industries Board in fLxing a price on raw 
wool, and in establishing control over its distribution through a wool 
section of its Textile Division is perhaps the most important step taken 
by the government in attempting to meet the wool clothing situation. 
The appointment of John W. Scott, of Carson, Pirie, Scott, and Company 
of Chicago as chief of the Textile Division and Textile Administrator for 
the country is looked upon as the most important announcement made in 
connection with the textile industry. 

Whether or not standardization of cloth and clothing for men will be 
carried to the same extent to which it has been carried in England re- 
mains to be seen. At present there has not appeared a definite demand 
for it; yet an announcement from the War Industries Board some weeks 
ago to the eft'ect that "Liberty suits" are to be manufactured to a stand- 
ard of cloth and style for the civihan population is an indication of the 
seriousness with which the authorities are considering the matter of our 
wool conserv^ation. 

It is interesting to note that in the report on British Standard Cloths 
for civilian wear, the price of a man's suit is fixed at $13.99; a boy's suit 
at $12.77; and an overcoat at $15.33. It is further stated that nego- 
tiations are under way for standard blankets and standard hosiery. 

King George, after inspecting recently several factories in central 
England engaged in making cloth for the new standard suits for British 
civilians, is reported to have broken his resolution not to have any more 
new clothes during the war and selected a length of brown standard 
cloth to be made into a $13.00 suit. 

The cotton situation has come to be serious for us because of the exor- 
bitant prices that are being reached in cotton goods. There is no short- 
age of the raw material. The prospects are good for a record crop this 
year. The enormous quantities used for army equipment; the increased 
wages in mills; and the forced substitution of cotton for wool and linen 
in fabrics and for many household purposes have created an unusual 
demand. The War Industries Board has now taken the position that the 



1918] THE CLOTHING SITUATION 405 

cost of cotton goods is rising to an extent not warranted by existing con- 
ditions and has recommended that something be done to stabilize the 
cost of cotton goods. 

As a result of this, a joint committee representing the board and the 
cotton goods trade was appointed to study the cotton situation. 

On June 8 a tentative price for cotton goods was agreed upon, and it 
was further agreed that some basis of price fixing on cotton goods would 
be established in the very near futui'e. The Board's action does not 
extend to the price of raw cotton. All calculations are based on the pre- 
vailing price at the present time, namely, 30 cents per pound. 

The consumption of cotton in the United States in 1917 was 35 pounds 
per capita against lOf pounds in Great Britain. How much methods of 
laundering have to do with this greater consumption, is not known. It is 
doubtless true that the difference in standard of living is a factor. But 
the addiction of the American woman to seasonal styles undoubtedly 
accounts for a tremendous waste. Cotton enters into the vast majority 
of articles of women's wear. The constant efforts of the caterers to 
women's needs in garments has been to pro\'ide innumerable novelties. 
The existing high prices are now making us realize our responsibility. 

Very little can be said of linen. Sh,ipments into this country are so 
small as to be negligible, and we have never produced the raw fiber. The 
larger part of the raw material for both Great Britain and the United 
States was exported from the part of Russia that is within the war- 
ridden area; Belgium's flax industry is destroyed. 

In the Irish plants the productionof linens forcommercial purposes 
is not permitted and whatever is raised in Great Britain now is com- 
mandeered by the government for airplane sails and other war purposes. 
Should the tests now being made on American aeroplanes to construct 
the wings of rolled steel one one-hundredth of an inch thick prove suc- 
cessful, the pressing need of linen or substitutes therefor may be relieved 
and Hnen fabrics may be diverted to civilian purposes. 

We still have a considerable quantity of Hnen stocks in the stores and 
warehouses, but when these stocks are sold out it is believed that it will 
be years before linen fabrics even approaching them in quality will be 
produced; perhaps never. 

Silk needs very little comment. The demand for it was never greater, 
and there is an abundance. Manufacturers are substituting it for wool, 
and it has become our patriotic duty to use silk in place of wool wherever 
possible. 



406 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [September 

So far comparatively small amouints of silk are required for war pur- 
poses, but there are indications that very large amounts may be required 
in the near future. If this need does develop, the silk situation may 
materially change. 

A short time ago there was held in The Great Central Palace in New 
York City a great textile exhibition. One of the most interesting of the 
exhibits was the showing of the materials and processes involved in the 
production of remanufactured wool, or shoddy. The term "shoddy" has 
come to have a prejudiced meaning in the mind of the public that is un- 
founded and unjust, under the modern methods of manufacturing. 

One of the most important steps taken toward helping to meet our 
serious wool shortage is the encouragement that is being given to the use 
of reworked wool as a substitute for wool in fabrics for ciAdhan use. Be- 
fore we became involved in the war, we were actually sending to Europe 
tons of rags to be re-worked over there and sent back to us. We now see 
the wastefulness of this procedure. The quality of goods does not neces- 
sarily depend upon whether re-worked wool is or is not used, but does 
depend upon the quahty of the re-worked wool. The re-manufactured 
wool of good grade is known to have better wearing quality than poor 
grades of \argin wool. In some governments contracts for army equip- 
ment specifications are now allowing a certain per cent of shoddy. For 
illustration, army blankets that are being made in our woolen mills in 
Minneapolis contain 35 per cent of shoddy. 

One of the much needed lines of work at this time is a campaign among 
the women in the smaller towns and rural districts as well as in the cities 
for clothing conservation. Women should be taught the facts regarding 
the wool shortage, and the possibilities of enormously adding to our re- 
sources through the utilization of much material that has heretofore gone 
to waste. The necessity for sa\ang rags instead of burning them should 
be taught, and organized salvage work should be encouraged. Some 
states are doing this work successfully through their extension workers. 
In Minnesota some work is done through the Extension Ser\'ice, and the 
Woman's Committee of the State Council of Defense has organized a 
definite clothing conservation campaign. We have scattered "Save-the- 
Wool" leaflets, put posters into libraries, and used the extension bulle- 
tins through the county organizations. Work of a similar character is 
being done in other states. 

In the city of Boston the Women's City Club has organized a "Food 
Facts Bureau" and this bureau has created a "Clothing Facts" section. 



1918] THE CLOTHING SITUATION 407 

The state has put up a hut on Boston Common to be used as a place for 
exhibits of food, clothing, and gardening. In order to inform the public 
of the various phases of the clothing problem, there are files showing 
class work in sewing throughout the United States as it touches clothing 
conservation, and Red Cross work ; bulletin boards for clippings ; slogans 
and posters and exhibits. Exhibits of varieties of wool, domestic 
and foreign; of cloth in process of making; of the various wool sub- 
stitutes; of cotton in wool cloth, overalls and service clothing; clothing 
of the Junior League during war times; correct shoes, etc., have been put 
up, and many hundreds of people see these exhibits daily. 

JNIany of our colleges and schools where courses in sewing are given 
have organized work in remodehng problems, and are urging the intro- 
duction of this tj'pe of problem in high school classes. Women are being 
urged to bring out from their attics and store-rooms everything in the 
way of clothing and put it into use, either at home or through the relief 
organizations. Pattern pubHshers are advertising designs especially 
adapted to the use of the smallest practical amount of cloth, and 
to the remodehng of old garments. Suggestions are being sent out from 
the Home Economics Di\dsion of the Bureau of Education urging the 
introduction of remodeling projects into sewing classes, thus helping to 
teach lessons of thrift and economy to our girls in school. 

We are all perfectly aware of the fact that no one thing has been a 
greater source of waste in clothing than the forced laying aside of perfectly 
good garments because of the rapidly changing styles. It has meant not 
only waste of raw material but waste of time and energy- on the part of 
thousands of women. 

The present situation in the textile world is not only making women 
begin to realize the desirabiUty of adopting more conservative styles but 
there are indications that the manufacturers are beginning to see that it 
would mean a sounder basis for business. 

A meeting of the National Cloak, Suit, and Skirt Manufacturers Asso- 
ciation was held in Cleveland the last of May. At this meeting the style 
committee presented a letter from Washington requesting the garment 
makers to reduce the number of models in their line. Following the dis- 
cussion of this request, an address to the Association by one of their 
members contained these significant statements. 

"Every man who studies the women of his own family knows that a 
really lovely garment — one that has inherent beauty — is worn again and 
again, actually worn out in fact, and then in many cases repaired and 



408 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [September 

worn some more. The woman will really like it, and what she likes in 
clothes she will keep going back to. 

"On the other hand, the garment she bought for some absurd freakish 
style will be worn two or three times and cast aside. She thought it was 
the "newest thing" and she wanted to be up-to-date, but in real truth 
her natural taste was offended, and she didn't 'like it;' so she merely 
wore the novelty off. The cloth and work in such a garment are prac- 
tically a dead loss to the woman and to the country. 

"We are striving for the artistic and for the lovely and such work is in 
the truest sense 'conservation' work. Also when we develop something 
successfully artistic, something that stands the test of the women's 
criticism we are not afraid to stick to it, and we don't throw the idea away, 
because it isn't absolutely new." 

The convention went on record as accepting and being willing to in- 
corporate these factors in conservation: first, sound tailoring; second, 
strict simplicity of design — not too many interrupted lines, and a chaste 
restraint in the matter of ornament. 

So we see turned upon American women what was once regarded as the 
"insidious" propaganda of fashion for the patriotic purpose of making 
them wear their clothes until they are genuinely worn out, and at the 
last discard the remaining fragments with a sigh of regret. 

The facts presented above relative to the clothing situation are only 
suggestive of some of the problems coming into the field of our textiles 
and clothing work. Many of the problems are emergency ones. Many 
of them are going to stay. Whatever may be their character we recog- 
nize that their solution is vital in the greater conservation program. 



THE FRIENDS OF CAPTMN SUGAR 

EMILY ROSE BURT 
Division of Home Conservation, United Stales Pood Administration 

Captain Sugar of the American Food Army was suddenly called to serv- 
ice overseas. Most of his family were prisoners of the enemy in Ger- 
many and Austria and couldn't get out to help in the world war, and he 
was more than eager to do for he knew how badly he was needed abroad 
by the Allies and the people in the war countries. 



1918] THE FRIENDS OF CAPTAIN SUGAR 409 

But all the same he did worry a bit about the way things would go in 
America in his absence. You see, in civil life before the war he'd been 
in the "Sweets" business. His chief line was candy, with cake and 
pudding branches. "Whatever," said he to his commanding officer, "wUI 
the folks do without me? They depend on me so. I'm a family pet." 

"You are," was the reply, "but your duty is plain. You must go to the 
aid of the Allies. Meanwhile we must try to find substitutes to carry on 
your business. We'll look out for such as aren't so well fitted for over- 
seas ser\'ice and they can do their bit at home. So, Captain Sugar, you're 
not to worry." 

"I shan't worry," said Captain Sugar, "but I have a personal business, 
and I fear folks won't want to give their confidence to strangers." 

"Leave it to me," replied his chief, reassuringly. 

"Well — since you're so sure, just as a favor, save a little corner for me 
when I come home again," joked Captain Sugar. 

So he sailed across the sea and his commanding officer, who had had 
his wits working busily, set about rounding up helpers to carry on Cap- 
tain Sugar's business. One of the first chaps he thought of was Mr. Corn. 

"Seems as if the ones that are doing the most already are always the 
first ones asked to do something extra," said Mr. Corn with a cheerful 
grin reaching from ear to ear. "I've been doing a lot of Colonel Wheat's 
work since he's been in the service. However you may count on me. 
Certainly it's up to me to be patriotic, for I'm an American to my very 
roots." "And what's the special stunt I'm to do?" 

"Your job," said his chief, "will be to form the Corn Sirup Association 
and take charge of a portion of the Cake Frosting business, with the 
Pudding Sweetening branch." 

"Good," said Mr. Corn, "I'll enjoy that. Maybe I can even put one 
over on Captain Sugar," and he winked knowingly. 

"There's a firm up in Vermont ought to help me out," said the General 
to himself after his successful interview with Mr. Corn. "I'll just wire 
the Maple Brothers. Wouldn't wonder if they knew enough about the 
sweetening business already to be valuable." "To Maple Brothers, 
Sugar Hill, \'ermont. Can you lend your services in the 'Sweets' business 
for duration of war? General Food Resources." he telegraphed. 

The answer came back at once: "To General Food Resources, Wash- 
ington. Glad to help out in 'Sweets' business. Entire resources of 
Maple Sirup and Sugar Association at your command. Maple Bros." 

It seemed a good idea to let the Maple Brothers and Mr. Corn join 
forces to a certain extent in the Cake Frosting and Pudding Sweetening 



410 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [September 

branches, as they had already been acquaintances in the Pancake Club 
and knew something about the same line of work. 

With Mr. Corn and the Maple Brothers enlisted in war work, the 
General felt that a good beginning had been made, but he knew that he 
must widen his corps of workers, so by postplane he communicated with 
the Busy Bee Company. They enthusiastically agreed to give the serv- 
ices of Miss Honey, their most efficient employee. 

"You'll find Miss Honey a great help in the 'Sweets' business," they 
wrote from Cloverfield, Ohio, "she's an expert." 

The General immediately planned to make her an assistant in the 
Dessert Department. 

"I need a good head for that department. I beheve I can get Miss 
Molassas to fill the place; as she's a relative of Captain Sugar, she ought 
to be interested." 

Sure enough, she was proud to come up from the South and take the 
job. She was full of splendid ideas about gingerbread and Indian pud- 
ding and Brown Betty, and made some good suggestions which were used 
in the Candy Department. Miss Molasses's Scotch kisses were divine, 
so everybody said, and she and Peter Popcorn came to some kind of an 
understanding which was looked on kindly by the General and was im- 
mensely enjoyed by the children. 

Of course everybody cooperated in the Candy Department, Mr. Corn 
through his Sirup Association, Maple Brothers through their Sirup and 
Sugar Association, and MissHoney in countless ingenious ways of herown. 

But still more aid was needed, so the General called for volunteers. 
Then came forward Mr. Prune, Mr. Date, Mr. Fig, Mr. Nut and all his 
family, the pretty Fruit girls, and even old lady Ginger, "Grandmother 
Ginger," the rest called her. Madame Chocolate was director, and Mr. 
Nut made himself useful everywhere. He and Mr. Prune, Mr. Date and 
Mr. Fig often got together for the benefit of the business. 

So well did these candy volunteers succeed that the keepers of all the 
candy shops begged them to take front seats in show windows, and little 
girls and boys going by would pull at their mothers' sleeves and say, 
"Please buy us some stuffed dates or peanut balls." And every young 
lady shopper with a sweet tooth would run into the candy shop and buy 
nut and fig caramels, stuffed prunes, or chocolate almonds. 

"Getting along without you finely," cabled General Food Resources to 
Captain Sugar, "so stick on over there till the last gun is fired." 

And that's what Captain Sugar is doing! 



1918] rOOD ADMINISTRATION CAFETERIA 411 

THE FOOD ADMINISTRATION CAFETERIA 

CLAUDLA. FITZGKR.A.LD 
United States Food Administration 

One sitting at luncheon in the present Food Administration Cafeteria, 
and watching its operation would I'ttle guess that less than a year ago 
it began literally in a basket. 

Soon after the Food Administration came into existence an enterpris- 
ing woman saw her opportunity and began to go about daily to each 
room carrying in a basket sandwiches, cakes, and fruit and ser\ing them 
fo the rapidly growing number of Food Administration employees. 
When this proved insufficient, a small room, with a table across the door 
serving as a counter, was the first lunch room which the Food Administra- 
tion could boast. In these limited quarters, this same enterprising 
woman sold soup, sandwiches, one hot dish, cakes, coffee, and fruit. 
The food had to be eaten in one's office as there was no seating space in 
the lunch room. All this was wliile the Food Administration was lo- 
cated in the Gordon Hotel. 

WTien the spacious new building on 18th and D Streets was completed 
a room was fitted up on the first floor for a cafeteria. A counter shut 
ofif one end of this room. On this were displayed pies, cakes, and 
sandwiches. Behind it the manager and her assistants, with very limited 
cooking facilities, consisting mainly of an electric stove and coffee urn, 
served a constantly increasing line of people. The larger part of the 
room was equipped with several tables and chairs and a shelf running 
around the walls. The room was smaU and so overcrowded, that stUl a 
majority of those patronizing it carried their limcheon away to eat. 

Up to this time the limch room was imder private management. 
Realizing that something must be done, and that under the proper 
super\-ision better service could be given, the Food Administration 
asked the University of Illinois to lend them for several weeks the services 
of Miss Parsons, the manager of its cafeteria. Working with the Chief 
of the Home Conservation Di\'ision she entirely reorganized the Cafeteria, 
installing adequate equipment and placing in charge a woman trained 
in institution management, giving her capable assistants and help. 
Then the Cafeteria began in earnest. A larger room was selected; a 
kitchen was built; an ample counter constructed; a steam table, electric 
stove, electric ovens, hot and cold water, and an ice box were installed. 



412 iHE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [September 

Attractive dishes, silver, and utensils were purchased, dainty curtains 
were hung at the windows, and tables and chairs secured. The Cafeteria 
was ready for operation soon after the first of the year. 

Adjacent to the big dining room and the kitchen, Mr. Hoover has a 
small dining room, seating a dozen people, where he may discuss Food 
Administration business with his aids through the luncheon hour. 

From the days of the "basket lunch" sandwiches formed an important 
item in the menu. The numerous office boys, and others who needed 
an inexpensive lunch were particularly dependent upon these. For 
some months Victory Bread was used. Then the need for wheat 
became urgent. Mr. Hoover, realizing this need and our obligations 
to the Allies, asked hotels and restaurants, and individuals who could do 
so to refrain from using all wheat products until the next harvest. The 
Cafeteria immediately comphed with the request. Then the problem 
had to be met of a substitute for the sandwiches for those whose lunches 
must be inexpensive. Potatoes and wheatless quick breads and at least 
one hearty dish containing no wheat or meat helped to make the transi- 
tion an easy one. 

The Cafeteria is now serving between six and seven hundred persons 
at luncheon every day and with little inconvenience. A strictly wheatless 
less menu is given. Much cheese is used. Potatoes are a part of every 
day's lunch. Milk and buttermilk are served. The Cafeteria rigidly 
adheres to the Food Administration ruhngs and changes in policies. 

These are some of the dishes found frequently in the menu. 

I. Soups: Corn Chowder, Vegetable Soup, Turkish Soup, Creole 
Soup, Potato Soup. 

II. Main dishes: Potatoes au Gratin, Pinto Bean Loaf with Tomato 
Sauce, Spinach with Egg, Minute Rabbit, Baked Shad or Trout with 
Egg Sauce, EscaUoped Tomatoes, EscaUoped Corn. 

III. Salads: Cottage Cheese, Pineapple and Nut, Stuffed Egg, 
Potato and Celery, Fruit, Banana, Celery and Cabbage. 

IV. Desserts: Ice Cream, Chocolate Tapioca, Maple-Nut Pudding 
with Whipped Cream, Pineapple "Pershing" (Bavarian) Cream, Fresh 
Strawberries, Apple Pie (Wheatless Crust). 

V. Beverages: Buttermilk, Sweet Milk, Coffee, Tea. 

VI. Fruit: Apples, Bananas, Oranges. 

VII. Extras: Orange Marmalade, Peaches, Pears, Strawberry Jam 
(Individual), Cheese, Spiced Pickles, Conservation Candy, Salted 
Peanuts. 



1918] FOOD ADMINISTRATION CAFETERIA 413 

Note. Since the foregoing article was written the cafeteria has again out- 
grown its bounds. Partitions have been removed, thus increasing the seating 
capacity from 120 to 180. 

In order that experimental work on large quantity recipes for institutions 
might be carried out, two ovens were installed having a capacity of 100 loaves 
each. A baker was employed to provide bread Jor the cafeteria and to work 
upon recipes for institutions. Numerous small changes have been made in 
tJie method of service intended to quicken it and lessen conjusion. The pur- 
cJiase of additional equipment has also aided in the preparation of jood. 

Because of the temporary construction of the building, no fuel for cooking 
could be used except electricity. As this was a hindrance a fireprooj kitchen 
was constructed. This contains a large gas range, vegetable steatner, and 
stock pot. 

Connected also with the kitchen are a dishwashing room which is equipped 
with an electric dishwasher, and a preparation kitchen equipped with a 
vegetable peeler. 

Just as the cajeteria has adhered rigidly to the wheatless policy, and a 
sparing use of meat, so it has followed a nearly sugarless program since the 
need oj conseroation has been so great. 

It has established a record oj 6000 meals using only 50 pounds oJ sugar for 
all purposes during ten working days. Other sweeteners such as syrups and 
molasses are used almost entirely in cooking. Sugar is used principally Jor 
sweetening coffee and tea. Here the quantity served is unijorm and limited — 
with satis] actory results and Jew complaints. 

Thus the Food Administration Cajeteria successjully demonstrates thejact 
that conservation can be practiced in institutions which Jeed large numbers oJ 
people quite as easily as in the home. 



414 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [September 

THE RED CROSS AND THE HIGH SCHOOL SEWING COURSE 

GEORGIA GRAY 

Head of Smnng Department, Kansas City High School 

As we drew toward the close of our first school year smce the com- 
mencement of the war, we felt the necessity of taking stock in our 
departments to see wherein we had expressed or failed to express 
our somewhat inarticulate desire to be of service to our country in her 
time of need. Have we made a real contribution to the cause of democ- 
racy through our toil? On the other hand, have we during the past 
year attained the ideals of instruction toward which we have been 
striving in former years? Only by reviewing pre-war aims can we 
satisfy ourselves concerning the latter. 

In all schools, the policy of a department must be one which is reason- 
ably satisfactory from several points of view: that of the teacher, the 
principal, the superintendent of schools, the board of education, the 
community at large, and the pupils themselves. This is particularly 
true of the newer vocational courses. Because of the lack of general 
standardization throughout the country, courses in household art, 
domestic art, sewing, clothing, or whatever name catalogued, have been 
very largely influenced by what the principal or superintendent desired 
to have taught. To my mind, criticism from these gentlemen is apt to 
be conducive to a healthy condition. A teacher, always interested in 
the narrower and theoretical aspects of her field, can easily forget the 
scheme of the whole curriculum and be convinced that economics, 
textiles, or art may be made the mainspring of an excellent course of 
study. The advice of one's superior officer to the effect that it is i-eally 
desired that these girls learn to sew, comes rather discordantly into 
this theoretical harmony. "Mere manipulation of material," which we 
hear decried at times, is scarcely an adjunct of a high school course, but 
rather its main foundation. In practice, at least, the majority of 
teachers of sewing in the larger city high schools of which I have any 
knowledge, support this conception of the requirements of the course in 
sewing. It must be planned with its primary emphasis on technique. 
Certain fundamental principles rather than garments, must be mastered 
in progressive order of difficulty. The study of art in its applied form 
of costume design, textiles such as are of direct value to the purchaser 
of fabrics, economics, and handwork are no mean contributors to the 



1918] RED CROSS AND HIGH SCHOOL SEWING COURSE 415 

sum total of valuable information which should be imparted. The 
emphasis placed on any of these correlated subjects will vary with 
individual teachers. The study of clothing is so intimate and personal 
that no two instructors will react in exactly the same manner. 

Then, too, the type of school and community conditions must affect 
the general scheme of the department. Time is the limiting factor in 
all our plaiming. We must definitely sacrifice valuable subject matter 
in order to give time for the clear presentation of fundamentals which we 
consider absolutely essential. I haVe mentioned before that the tech- 
nical emphasis is on principles, rather than garments. For example, a 
fitted facing may be as well taught on a skirt as a waist; a bound button- 
hole, on a wool dress as a voile blouse; or a French seam, on outer gar- 
ments as on underwear. 

And now comes the call of the American Red Cross Society. What 
can we do? Can high school girls' work meet their standard of accept- 
ance? Will any of our ideals of instruction be lowered by substituting 
Red Cross sewing for part of that which the girls have done for their 
personal use? Can we hold the interest of our students? 

The standard which the Red Cross Society has set for the acceptance 
of certain regulation garments, such as hospital bed shirts or operating 
robes, is necessarily high. Some supervisors feel that it is beyond 
that to which the average high school girl can attain. With our present 
day tendency to emphasize speed and effect rather than finish, I some- 
times wonder if the pendulum is not swinging too far away from the 
well nigh perfect technique of our grandmothers. At any rate, I have 
felt that the placing of the hospital bed shirt near the middle of the 
year's course appreciably brought up the standard of workmanship 
among the weaker students. I beheve, too, that the requirements of 
The Red Cross Society are as fully met by high school girls under close 
supervision, as by the promiscuous efforts of volunteers. The gannent 
may need laundering, because of long handling, but this is of no 
importance. 

Then considering the question from our own point of view, is a gar- 
ment of this type satisfactory as a technical problem? Reducing a 
hospital bed shirt to its principles, we find that in the making of it we 
can teach felled seams, the putting in of sleeves, hems, fitted facing, 
mitered corners, making and placing a pocket, and the sewing on of 
tape. From the technical side, this balances well with other garments 
made for personal adornment. The only loss is from the costume design 



416 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [September 

side, but supplementing this, individual garments calling for originality 
of design can be carefully chosen to offset this deficiency. 

The student's interest is intensified rather than diminished by the 
introduction of this Red Cross sewing, I find. The girls are anxious to 
be doing something worth while; and when the garment is finished, 
they come back to their own clothing with more enthusiasm. 

The Junior Red Cross Society is putting new life into school work in 
many different ways. Aside from the tremendous psychological effect 
on the students themselves, their money is easily made accessible for 
the purchase of supplies. It had been a serious handicap to be depend- 
ent on the will of the local chapter as to whether it saw fit to appro- 
priate money for the purchase of the particular suppUes best adapted to 
the needs of the school. The approval of any proposed work is much 
more easily obtained if the chapter is not asked to bear the expense. 
Before the Junior Red Cross funds were available, we secured a great 
number of Belgian and French refugee garments through the voluntary 
contributions of the students. This has been done in the public schools 
of Chicago by requiring each child in the public schools to contribute 
one article during the year. Those which we secured here were from 
two sources, one a skirt and the other any garment made of old material, 
either or both of which contributed to the refugee work. About half 
of the work was donated, but it could have been made uniform had 
funds for the purchase of material been available. Now in the second 
year classes, black sateen pinafores and knickerbockers are being made 
with the Junior Red Cross fund. Manuals and patterns for these 
garments are available at any Red Cross Auxiliary. 

The making of these refugee garments is of particular interest to the 
girls. It creates, through service, a spirit of kinship with other girls 
less fortimate than they — girls whose sacrifice is unselfish and whose 
burden is our own. 

Thus the year has closed with our course of study revolutionized; 
with at least half of our time given to Red Cross work for our soldiers 
and Allies, with renewed interest in our work, more accomplished than 
ever before, and with old material utilized in a profitable way instead 
of merely discussed as a possibility. What can we not accompHsh in 
the coming year with the funds immediately available from a Junior 
Red Cross membership campaign at the beginning of the school year 
and with this year's mistakes and successes as a guide in our planning? 



1918] PRESERVING TIME 417 



PRESERVING-TIME 

Said Mr. Baldwin Apple 

To Mrs. Bartlett Pear, 
"You're growing very plump, ^Madame, 

And also very fair. 

And tliere is Mrs. Clingstone Peach 

So mellowed by the heat, 
Upon my word, she really looks 

Quite good enough to eat. 

And all the Misses Crab-apple 

Have blushed so very red 
That very soon the farmer's wife 

To pluck them will be led. 

Just see the Isabellas 

They're growing so apace, 
That they really are beginning 

To get purple in the face. 

Our happy time is over, 

For Mrs. Green Gage Plum 
Says she knows unto her sorrow 

Preserving-time has come." 

"Yes," said Mrs. Bartlett Pear, 

"Our day is almost o'er, 
And soon we shall be smothering 

In syrup by the score." 

And before the month was ended, 

The fruits that looked so fair, 
Had vanished from among the leaves. 

And the trees were stripped and bare. 

They were all of them in pickle, 

Or in some dreadful scrape, 
"I'm cider," sighed the apple; 

"I'm jeUy!" cried the grape. 

They were all in jars and bottles. 

Upon the shelf arrayed. 
And in their midst poor Mrs. Quince 

Was turned to marmalade. 

—St. Nicholas. September, 188-t 



EDITORIAL 

Why not Join? The American Home Economics Association, like 
so many other organizations, is feeling the stress of war times. The 
new demands upon everyone for time, money, and efifort are so great 
that the older claims are often set aside — sometimes of necessity, some- 
times only thoughtlessly. Some of these claims we can well afford to 
disregard until the war is over; others have as great an importance now 
as at any time, perhaps even greater. Certainly any association whose 
primary object fits in so well with the needs of the day as does that of 
our own ought to receive full support. It is not only educational but 
it deals directly with the very problems of living that are confronting 
everyone, and it should be influential in serving the needs of a large 
portion of the population. Everyone is discussing Home Economics. 
Even the advertisements are using this term to attract attention. The 
subject is no longer in the background. It occupies the front of the 
stage. The Association ought to be as prominent as the subject. It 
should be standardizing teaching. It should be leading the efforts to 
have every man and woman and child informed in regard to the right 
use of food. It should be studying cooperative efforts in the prepa- 
ration, the marketing, and the serving of food. It should be working 
effectively with the government, not only with the Office of Home 
Economics of the Department of Agriculture but with that whole de- 
partment, with the Bureau of Education, with the Federal Vocational 
Board, with the Children's Bureau, with the Food Administration, and 
with every other agency that is working on problems that belong to us 
as truly as to them. As individuals the members of the Association 
have been active and efficient and have accomplished quite as much as 
any other body of people, but as an Association, we have been able to 
do far less than we should, largely because there has not been enough 
money available to justify the undertaking of any big piece of work. 

The JouRN.\L has a suggestion to make. The Association has now 
only three life members. Are there not 20 or 30 others who would like 
to add their names to this list by paying the fifty dollars required for hfe 
membership? Are there not alumnae of different institutions who will, 
by small contributions from many, make one or more of the instructors 
life members of the Association as a tribute to the inspiration received 
from them in former days? 
418 



FOR THE HOMEMAKER 

THE WOMAN'S COMMITTEE SURVEY OF AGENCIES FOR THE 
SALE OF COOKED FOOD^ 

HELEN W. ATWATER 

Vnited States Department of Agriculture and Wmnan's Committee, Council of National Defense 

To any one who has been following the news which filters in about food 
conditions abroad, one of the most striking developments appears to be 
the great increase of pubHc or cooperative cooking. The big central 
kitchens estabhshed in the early days of the Relief Commission's work 
in Belgium, the development of the Volkskuechen in Germany and Aus- 
tria (in July, 1916, it was reported that 85 per cent of the population of 
Frankfort was obtaining its food from such institutions), and the estab- 
lishment within the last few months of the many so called National 
Kitchens in London and other industrial centers of England, probably 
find their parallels in all the countries of western Europe, except perhaps 
France, where curiously enough a few enterprises by the cooperative 
societies are almost the only ones developed in the emergency. 

Such a growth is not in the least surprising. In the shortage of food 
and fuel and labor which war has entailed, it has been only natural that 
such an obvious way of utilizing the available suppHes more efiiciently 
should have come into eifect. Nor was the idea entirely new in any of 
the countries where it has shown such forced growth in the last three or 
four years. The advantages of large scale cooking were shown in Count 
Rumford's work a century and a quarter ago. The idea of cooperative 
buying came into prominence not only in England but also in several 
continental countries toward the end of the eighteen-forties, as a conse- 
quence of the bad harvests and general hard times from which Europe 
then suiiered, and has been gradually extending in the industrial centers 
ever since. Leipsic, Geneva, and Grenoble opened central kitchens for 
the preparation of food on a large scale and its sale to working people 

' Presented at the Eleventh Annual Meeting of the .\merican Home Economics Associa - 
tion, Chicago, June, 1918. 

419 



420 THE JOXJRNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [September 

about the middle of the last century, and soon after similar movements 
started in Scotland, Italy, Austria, Belgium, Holland, Norway, Denmark, 
and France. Sometimes these were financed either in whole or in part by 
public funds; sometimes by well-to-do, philanthropically minded in- 
dividuals or societies; sometimes on the plan of a stock company with 
small shares held by working people; sometimes it was found that a 
restaurant combined with a kitchen was not profitable until a shop for the 
sale of cooked food to take home was combined with it; sometimes the 
reverse held and cooked food shops proved profitable only when com- 
bined with a restaurant. 

In this country such enterprises have been relatively few and unim- 
portant, though some of the organizations which have attempted work 
along these lines have been extremely interesting to the student of such 
institutions and contained valuable suggestions for future work. We all 
know the significant work of the New England kitchen which was opened 
under the direction of Mrs. Abel on Pleasant Street, in Boston in 1890. 
Several cooperative cooking plans were also tried out in other places but 
most of these seem to have died young. The Journal of Home Eco- 
nomics for August and September, 1915, contained a brief article by 
Charlotte Tally describing a cooperative kitchen in a suburban town, 
which was financed by a small company of stockholders with an original 
investment of $1000, and which sent out well cooked, attractively served 
meals to individual house-holders at a reasonable price. It also provided 
waitresses when needed and evidently performed many of the functions 
of a good catering establishment, but at a lower cost than usual, and with 
more emphasis on the homelike quahty and nutritive value of the meals. 
On the whole, however, nothing has been developed in this country, prior 
to the war, which corresponds to the Volkskuechen of Germany and 
Austria, the Fourneau.x Economiques of France and Belgium, or the Cu- 
cine Economiche Popular! of Italy. 

Since war has come to us and has been increasing the disorganization of 
our supplies of food, fuel, and labor, and it has become more and more 
confusing for the housekeeper to try to follow the injunctions of the Food 
Administration, many have been wondering how long it would be before 
such a movement as that of the National Kitchens in England would be 
started in this country, and are surprised to realize that up to the present 
only two or three attempts of this kind seem to have been made. We 
have a large number of community establishments for preserving food 
and for demonstrating methods and use of food substitutes, but one could 



1918] woman's committee survey for sale of cooked food 421 

probably count on the fingers of one hand all the significant attempts 
which have been made to do central cooking for the sake of saving ma- 
terials and labor. The " Cash and Carry Kitchen" run by the women of 
the Central Food Committee of St. Louis is probably the most con- 
spicuous among the enterprises so far started. This is located in a fac- 
tory district and sells cooked food to the people in the neighborhood 
either for consumption in the cafeteria on the spot, to be distributed by 
push carts or wagonettes to the neighboring factories, or to be taken 
home. Quite different but none the less interesting is an attempt which 
is being made in New York to deliver ready-to-eat dinners to well-to-do 
families who are unable to secure servants as usual. 

Another type of enterprise which must not be overlooked in this con- 
nection is the delicatessen shop or the corresponding department in the 
grocery or bake-shop. We all know how rapidly these have been de- 
veloping in many sections of the country, but I fear few of us have any 
definite information as to how much saving of labor and materials is in- 
volved in this method of catering, or how the selling prices compare with 
the cost of production. It is worth investigation, however, as under 
proper control it might perhaps be made a means of conserving 
materials and labor while remaining on a strictly commercial basis. 

Except for the kitchens which are an outgrowth of the cooperative buy- 
ing societies in Europe and some organized by fairly well-to-do people in 
Austria and perhaps elsewhere, few of the pubhc kitchens are on a basis 
which could be considered profitable to the investor. Even if the food 
is sold at prices intended to cover the actual cost, rent or part of the labor 
has been given free or at prices below the current rates, or the interest 
which would ordinarily be charged on the capital is waived or lowered. 
When this is the case, there is no winking the fact that the patrons are 
being subsidized for a part of the cost of their food. In a period of such 
stress as many foreign countries are undergoing this is probably inevit- 
able, but in this country we are still justified in asking whether we have 
yet reached the point where we wish our people to be fed, even in part, 
at public expense or by private charity, and how we are to know when 
that point shall have been reached. 

Should we not question seriously whether we cannot by foresight de- 
vise some means of limiting the extent to which the subsidizing would be 
necessary even should the emergency here become as acute as in Europe? 
If in advance of absolute necessity we could introduce self-supporting 
enterprises which would reduce the waste of food materials, fuel, and 



422 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [September 

labor, could we not lessen the later need for partially subsidized ones? 
And if we must in the end encourage the latter, should we not do it with 
full and frank understanding of the facts, and the possible effects on our 
social and economic life? Surely, even the most enthusiastic advocates 
of public kitchens must realize the dangers of supplying food at less than 
cost price, must wonder how the general practice of having food prepared 
outside of the home may affect the family life, as well as the methods of 
household management and equipment, and how it may complicate the 
problems of women in industry when peace comes and the millions of 
men now engaged in fighting or in supplying materials for the fighters 
are released for the lessened industries of peace. 

The effects of such changes wll undoubtedly be mixed good and bad, 
but since our own favored condition and the experience of others make it 
possible for us to plan our course a httle in advance, is it not our duty 
to try to steer toward the benefits and away from the dangers? 

It was with these possibilities in mind that the Department of Food 
Production and Home Economics of the Woman's Committee of the 
Council of National Defense asked the Council of National Defense for 
funds to conduct a survey of agencies for the sale of cooked foods to be 
consumed away from the place of sale, and the promptness with which the 
Council authorized the undertaking is, I think, a confirmation of its 
significance. An advisory committee has been appointed which con- 
sists of Mrs. Abel of Baltimore, Miss Breckinridge of Chicago, Miss 
Lucile Eaves of the Woman's Educational and Industrial Union of Bos- 
ton, Miss Mabel Hyde Kittredge of New York, Dr. Vernon Kellogg of 
the Food Administration, Dr. Langworthy of the Department of Agri- 
culture, Mrs. Ruby Smith of the Home Demonstration Service, and the 
writer as representative of the Woman's Committee. 

In general terms, the plan is somewhat as follows: to collect all avail- 
able data regarding pre-war enterprises in the United States and abroad, 
and those which have been developed in Europe since 1914, as well as 
those which are starting here as a result of the war. Mrs. Abel has for 
years been collecting material about such enterprises both here and 
abroad, and this she has generously placed at our disposal. With the 
help of Dr. Kellogg we hope to find some suitable person in England to 
collect detailed information regarding the National Kitchens there. 
These seem especially significant for our purpose because in many ways 
conditions in Great Britain resemble ours more closely than those in 
other parts of Europe. The files of the Food Administration will be 



1918] woman's committee survey for sale of cooked food 423 

open to us for anything they may contain about foreign work, and Miss 
Kittredge has offered the help of her first hand knowledge of work abroad 
as well as in this country. We hope that among the many Americans 
now at work in the other countries we can find some who will be able to 
supply some of the most serious gaps in our information. 

We hope soon to have some one at work collecting all this historical and 
descriptive material, and to have a report of this part of the survey ready 
for publication by autumn. Meanwhile we shall try to arrive at some 
means of estimating the economy of materials, labor, and money affected 
by different types of agencies as compared with each other and with 
household methods of preparing food. The Woman's Educational and 
Industrial Union has collected very valuable material on the cost of food 
prepared in quantity, and we may be able to work out some plan of co- 
operation by which we can avoid the necessity of duplicating that work. 
These are, of course, only a few of the points which will come up as the 
investigation progresses. It ought to be possible to conduct it in such a 
way that it will answer such questions as the following: 

Do conditions in this country, either generally or locally, warrant the opening 
of pubUc kitchens similar to those established abroad since 1914? 

Do labor conditions, especially those governing the employment of women in 
industry, require the removal of labor from the home to the extent now 
necessary in Europe? 

How great a saving of food materials, fuel, and labor do such kitchens secure? 

To what extent is it desirable to subsidize such enterprises, either directly 
by public or private funds or indirectly by furnishing rent-free quarters, unpaid 
volunteer labor, etc.? 

Would the development of such commercial enterprises as delicatessen 
shops, possibly under some form of official control, serve some of the purposes 
of the pubUc kitchens with less likelihood of introducing social and economic 
complications? 

If public kitchens or similar enterprises are started should they be considered 
as probably for the emergency only, or should they be encouraged as permanent 
institutions? 

If they are to be opened, what types of organization, equipment and opera- 
tion are best adapted to communities of different size and kind? 

What is the minimum number of patrons for which they can be maintained 
economically? Is it possible to plan a "unit organization" for a small number 
(say 500) and increase the number of these units as the number of patrons in- 
creases, or is it more economical in larger communities to operate from a cen- 
tral plant with distribution offices in different sections? 



424 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [September 

Could a series of suitable type menus be provided expressed partly in terms 
of type foods rather than specific articles ("green leaf vegetable" instead of 
"cabbage" or "dandelion greens," "succulent fruit" instead of "apple" or 
"orange") which could be easily adapted to changing market conditions and 
cover a sufficient number of days to avoid monotony? 

In short, if it accomplishes what is hoped for it, our survey ought to 
provide at least a partial and disinterested answer to many of the ques- 
tions forced upon us by the possibility of cooperative feeding in the 
United States. 



FOR BETTER DOMESTIC SERVICE 

The so-called "servant problem" is being attacked from a new angle 
in Calgary, Canada. This time the attempt at solution is being made not 
by employers but by the employed who have formed an organization 
whose slogan is "Give better, more efficient service and demand more 
consideration." The organization is thus described by Estelline Bennett 
in The Public for June 15: 

When the Calgary Housekeepers' Association was organized last summer it 
announced that its object was "to secure a better recognition of the dignity of 
the position of housekeepers; to obtain for them proper conditions of work 
including a standard wage and a maximum day; to defend its members against 
unfair treatment by employers; to provide for the comfort, safety, and effici- 
ency of its members without prejudice to the rights of employers." 

That did not look as though the way was to be made any smoother for the 
lady of the house. Neither did the printed contract that was drawn up for the 
use of members of the association in accepting positions seem to help matters 

any: .... "I, , Housekeeper, hereby promise good 

behavior and my best services to Mrs. , Employer, on the following 

terms: The rate of wage shall be S — per month, payable at the close of each 
month. Ten hours shall constitute a day's work on week days and six hours 
on Sunday and on public holidays. If more hours work are required in any 
day they shall be regarded as overtime and shall be paid for at the rate of 15 
cents an hour. I shall have every Sunday evening free after half past six 
o'clock, unless otherwise mutually agreed upon. 



1918] FOR BETTER DOMESTIC SERVICE 425 

"The employer will speak of me as her 'Housekeeper' and shall address me 

as 'Miss .' The privilege of entering or departing by the front door shall 

be accorded me if I wish to use it, also the use of a suitable room one evening a 
week in which I may entertain my friends until ten o'clock, it being understood 
that the home will not be unpleasantly disturbed by such entertainment. I 
wiU make it a rule to be in my employer's house at 11 p.m. unless otherwise 
mutually arranged, and to preserve the quiet of the hour. 

"Proper board and comfortable and sanitary lodgings shall be provided for 
me by my employer. 

"This engagement of service may be terminated at any time by either party 
giving two weeks' notice to the other party. Less notice may be given if 
mutually agreed upon, and in case of the violation of any of the terms of this 
agreement, either party may terminate the engagement immediately." 

All this sounded terrifying to the housekeepers of Calgary. They thought 
they were having trouble enough. Since the war had depleted the ranks of the 
men workers in the city and women had gone into positions never open to them 
before, there had been an increasing dearth of competent servants. In fact 
there was a lack of any kind, competent or otherwise, for the cessation of im- 
migration cut off the usual unskilled contingent. A few housewives were 
friendly to the new organization and went to an occasional meeting to encour- 
age "the girls," but most of them were on the defensive. 

"I'll have no maid in my house that belongs to that organization," one 
prominent matron defied. 

"I'd like to find out," said another, "just what they mean by 'good be- 
havior,' and their 'best services.' So often ideas differ on those things. I'd 
like to know just what it is they propose to give in exchange for all these 
demands." 

News of an arbitration committee in the Association did not help matters 
any. The members of the committee were of course members of the Associa- 
tion. No employer was to be asked to help arbitrate. The duties of the 
arbitration committee were, according to the constitution, "to receive com- 
plaints from either members or their employers and seek to adjust the diiificulty 
with justice to each party. If the finding of the committee is rejected by either 
party the matter shall be reported to the Association and it may proceed to 
advise, admonish, or suspend the member complained of, or to tabulate the 
employer as unfit to engage a member of the Association." 

One rule of the Association that aroused no unfavorable comment was that a 
uniform dress should be worn "with a distinction to indicate whether the wearer 
is certified or uncertified." 

The constitution also announced that members might make trial engagement 
vrith employers before signing the contracts. 

Altogether the organization of the Housekeepers' Association occasioned 



426 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [September 

considerable unrest among the women between whose slim pink finger tips and 
the disfiguring dishwater stood the members of the Association. 

But the summer waned and Calgary's glorious fall slipped into early winter 
and nothing more was heard from the Housekeepers' Association. 

Maids continued to come and go by the back doors of Calgary as of yore. 
They answered to the name of Biddy, Christine, Violet, or Mary as the case 
might be, and worked as many hours as seemed necessary to the comfort and 
convenience of the household. Those few who thought about the matter at all 
realized that the quiet was too intense to be altogether safe, and surreptitiously 
they looked into the matter. 

This is what they found : 

A little band of serious-faced women and girls going about their daily tasks as 
usual and meeting once a week in the evening to study dihgently the art and 
science of the craft they proposed to raise to a profession respected among men 
— or more literally, among women. They had a regular course of lectures in 
Housekeeping Science which included cooking, canning and preserving, simple 
dietetics, household management, home management, home sanitation, table 
setting, marketing, and laundry work. 

When the members of the Association have finished this course they expect 
to be so competent that employers will be delighted to meet them on their own 
terms. 

"It is not right,' said Miss Manning president of the Association, "to make 
demands in regard to wages, hours, and little considerations, for work indif- 
ferently done. We must be thoroughly competent housekeepers. We propose 
to make this training so thorough that any woman employing a member will 
have the assurance of an intelligent, trained housekeeper. If other cities 
follow our example, we will revolutionize domestic service." 



STANDARDIZED DRESS 

ETHEL RONZONE 

In order to eliminate changes in fashion and to provide for women a 
type of clothing which will be hygienic, modest, and economic in accord- 
ance with our best knowledge of the subject and which will be in har- 
mony with our social attitude, a design was worked out in the Home 
Economics Department of the University of Missouri under the direction 
of the author. 



1918] STANDARDIZED DRESS 427 

The beauty of this costume depends upon the simplicity of line, good 
proportions, and absolute adaptability to the needs of the body. Varia- 
tions in color and texture of fabric, so long as they do not interfere with 
health, economical production, our standard of modesty, and our knowl- 
edge of what is harmful, may be used. Standardization should include 
not only the dress, but the whole wardrobe of the woman — underclothing, 
shoes, stockings, hats, gloves, and coats. 

The design so far worked out is a two piece dress. The skirt, for 
convenience and in order to be perfectly hygienic, is either suspended 
from the shoulders by means of a sleeveless waist or buttoned on to an 
under waist which would take the place of a corset. This skirt is from 
two to two and one-half yards around the bottom, depending on the 
height of the person wearing it. It is from 4 to 10 inches from the 
floor. This is wide enough and short enough to allow freedom of move- 
ment and uses no surplus material. 

The waist is adapted from the Russian blouse, the lower part extend- 
ing down over the hip to conceal the lines of the uncorseted figure. The 
fullness is held in sUghtly at the waist line by a separate belt. Pockets 
placed at either side are a great convenience. Sleeves are simple with 
no fullness at the top. The neck is cut in a slight V-shape and is fin- 
ished by means of a rolling collar. 

The following variations may be used: 

Skirt 

1. Four-piece; seam in back. Open in front with plait. Pockets on 
either side at side seam. 

2. Four gore. Panel in front and back. Pockets on either side of 
front gore. 

3. Three piece. Seam in back. Pocket and opening on side seams. 

4. Full straight skirt gathered on in soft plaits at belt. 

Any of these may be made slightly gathered at the waist. This is 
better for the uncorseted figure as it allows the skirt to fall easily in 
place. 

Waist 

1. Plain. Open down front. 

2. Yoke. Side plaits, three on each side front and two each side back.* 

3. Jumper to slip over head. Sleeves and collar fastened to guimpe. 
' This variaticn might well be omitted because of the extra material required. 



428 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [September 

Collar 

1 . Rolling collar to be worn with or without tie. 

2. Rolling collar with tie a part of collar. 

Sleeves 

1. Plain coat sleeve. Open three and one-half inches so that it can 
be turned back. Cuff, facing stitched back. 

2. Plain sleeve. Slight amount of fullness into three-inch cuff which 
can be opened. 

The dress requires no trimming. The plainness may be reHeved by 
the addition of collars and cuffs of different material, but always without 
useless decoration. These collars and cuffs are especially necessary for 
winter dresses which need protection around the neck and sleeves. 
They may be made to snap on the waist so that they can be removed 
•and laundered without trouble. A bright tie may be added to complete 
■the costume. 

Many women, who for patriotic or economic reasons were interested 
in adopting a standardized dress, made the transition to this costume by 
getting one in the spring to be used as a suit during the spring and sum- 
mer, so that blouses already on hand might be worn out. In the fall 
the suit may be converted into an entirely satisfactory dress by the 
simple process of eliminating the shirt waist. 



HOW CAN I SAVE SUGAR ON A 2 LB. RATION? 

Instead of Try 

Breahfasl 

Fruit 1 Rounded Teaspoonful No Sugar 

Cereal 2 Rounded Teaspoonfuls No Sugar 

Coffee 2 Rounded Teaspoonfuls 1 Rounded Teaspoonful 



Tea 1 Rounded Teaspoonful 1 Level Teaspoonful 

Other dish 1 Rounded Teaspoonful Making \\ rounded teaspoonfuls a day 

Making 7 rounded teaspoonfuls a day; or for table use; or only 1 pound a month, 

•over 4 pounds a month. leaving 1 pound for other uses. 



BOOKS AND LITERATURE 



Any book or periodical mentioned in this department may be obtained through the 
JOURNAL OF Home Economics if the Journal price is listed. 



Ewrywoman's Canning Book. By Mary 

B. Hughes. Boston: Whitcomb and 

Barrows, 1918, pp. 96. 75 cents. 

This canning book deserves very favorable 
mention as a compilation, in convenient 
»nd attractive form, of directions and recipes 
that cover most of the needs of the house- 
keeper for such help. 

The general directions for canning, di- 
vided into sk distinct steps, and the expla- 
nation of correct processing would be clear 
to any beginner. 

The chapter dealing with "questions 
most frequently asked" is expecially good, 
and would dispel the doubts and fears of 
many timid housewives. 

After the general plan of canning is pre- 
Mnted, the directions for each product are 
complete, and do not refer back to some other 
fruit or vegetable. This is verj' satisfactory, 
for the amateur who is canning peaches 
does not want to look back to the directions 
for strawberries. 

The jelly chapter gives all the information 
that is necessary for good results, and vari- 
ous recipes indicate the best fruits to be 
used. 

In the many good directions for relishes, 
Eweet pickles, and spiced fruits it might be 
suggested that com syrup could be substi- 
tuted for the sugar, and even in the jams 
and marmalades it is quite possible to use 
one-half syrup. 

The pages on drying are interesting and 
explicit but it might be added that sweet 
pepper will dry much better if baked or 
scalded until the skins strip off, and more 
might be made of the dr>'ing of tender 
young carrots, beets, parsnips, salsify, etc. 
The difference in flavor between these vege- 
tables dried in their prime directly from the 



garden, and the larger, coarser, mature ones 
brought into the market from storage, is 
very great, to say nothing of the financial 
saving. 

Altogether the book is a desirable one, 
and will be a help in many kitchens. 

Nancy G. Gladish. 

Food Primer for the Home. Compiled by 
Lucy H. Gillett. New York: Bureau of 
Food Supply, Association for Improving 
the Condition of the Poor, 1918, pp. 20. 
Price 25 cents. 

Miss Gillett's invesrigations in connection 
with the work of the Association for Improv- 
ing the Condition of the Poor have especially 
equipped her to put together this most at- 
tractive and helpful little book. The nine 
food charts of the A. I. C. P. have been used 
as illustrations, and each picture is faced 
with a page of brief statements in regard to 
food habits in the form of a few questions 
with simple answers. The book should be 
of especial value in teaching those of 
limited education. Even those who cannot 
read English well, will be able to interpret 
the pictures. The type of question and an- 
swer used is well illustrated by those facing 
the picture of William and James in "The 
Race For Life." 

"Why does William look so pathetic? " 
"William is beginning to feel that he is not 
strong enough to play as hard as the other 
boys. He feels tired sooner than they do 
and often can't play at all. He has a cold 
frequently." 

"Is there any reason for William's lack of 
energy ? 

"William eats bread and coffee for break- 
fast. His mother thinks it takes too long 
to cook the cereal. His breakfast furnished 
429 



430 



THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS 



[September 



only about half as much food value as James' 
breakfast. 

"He eats a bite here and a bite there 
throughout the day. He has no regular 
eating times. He eats anything he happens 
to see which appeals to him. He eats it 
hurriedly, too. 

" He eats a great deal of white bread, 
meat and coffee with lots of sugar in it. 

''It is not a difference in cost. The 
chances are that William's food costs more 
than James'." 

Alice P. Norton. 

The Practical Cookbook. By M.'VRG.'UiET W. 
Howard. Boston: Ginn and Company, 
1917, pp. 152. $0.72. 

This compact but comprehensive cook- 
book, by the use of the tabular form for 
recipes, attempts to show their relations. 
Such a scheme is particularly clarifying to 
the novice in cooking. There is great va- 
riety in the recipes given, all of which re- 
quire no unusual or expensive ingredients. 
A valuable addition to the subject matter 
of the ordinary cookbook is found in the 
short but clear chapters on diet. This ma- 
terial on the nutrients and upon the selec- 
tion of food and balancing of menus with 
examples of well and poorly balanced meals 
sihould be most welcome to the housekeeper 
interested in the health of her family. The 
book is a good attempt to put simple sci- 
entific material in an untechnical systematic 
form. 

Edith H. Forster. 

The Small Family Cookbook. By Mary 
Denson Pretlow. New York: Robert 
M. McBride and Company, 1917, pp. 
206. $0.85. 

This book entices one further and further 
with its whimsical remarks. The recipes are 
tasty, of good variety and generally not very 
expensive. There is nothing scientific about 
the book. It is full of inaccuracies. Sec- 
tions are devoted to old Virginia and to 
German recipes. It is an entertaining and 
sugfe9ti\'e but unenlightening cookbook. 
Edith H. Forster. 



The High School Cookery Book. By GR.4CK 
Bradshaw. London: Longmans, Green 
and Company, 1916, pp. 266. $0.90. 

The High School Cookery Book is a logi- 
cally compiled text book especially prepared 
for use in secondary schools and training 
colleges. The book opens with a chapter 
entitled, "The Bearing of Microorganisms 
on Food and Cooker>'." Part I is devoted 
to Kitchen Organization; part 11 to Foods 
and Cooking. The concluding chapter 
gives summary and criticism, questions and 
practical tests. 

The material is carefully organized, con- 
cisely stated, and rendered easily available 
through the use of clearly indicated sec- 
tional and paragraph headings. There are 
some good diagrams and simple e.xperiments 
and many practical recipes most of which 
are grouped and classified for comparative 
study. 

Carrie Albetta Lypord. 



Thrift Clothing. By Mrs. Anna Hedges 
Talbot, New York State Specialist in Vo- 
cational Training for Girls, Flushing, N. 
Y., 1918, pp.30. $.50. 

As the title suggests, this pamphlet is 
devoted to a large degree to the making 
over of materials. However, it is not as 
comprehensive as its title, and deals with 
the making of children's clothing from the 
worn or partly worn garments of adults. 
The adult's clothing is diagrammed in its 
ripped state and the patterns for the small- 
er garments are shown fitted into these 
diagrams. The criticism of the pamphlet 
would be that very Uttle allowance is made 
for the worn parts in the adult's wearing 
apparel. For instance, practically all parts 
of a man's shirt are utilized to make chil- 
dren's clothing which if made from most 
men's discarded shirts would hardly last 
long enough to stitch. The pamphlet is 
valuable as a suggestion of possibilities of 
remodeling. It is printed on good paper, 
with legible t>'pe and has good drawings 
and illustrations. 

Jean G. MacKinnon. 



1918] BOOKS AND LITERATURE 431 

BOOKS RECEIVED 

The Blue Griss Cook Book. Minerva C. Fox. New York: Charles Scribner's Sons, 1918, pp. 

350. $1.50. 
Department Store Merchandise Manuals. New York: The Ronald Press Company, 1918. 

$1.50 a volume. The Educalional Director, Beulah Elfreth Kennard, M..\,, pp. 207; 

Glassware, Marj' Lehmann, B.A., pp. 161; House-furnishings, E. Lillian Hutchinson, 

B.A., pp. 229; Millinery, Charlotte R. Aiken, B.A., pp. 175; Silk, Eliza B. Thompson, 

pp, 224. 
Economical Cookery. Marion Harris Neil. Boston: Little, Brown and Company, 1918, pp. 

346. $1.50. 
Economy in Food. Mabel Thacher Wellman. Boston: Little, Brown, and Company, 1918, 

pp. 36. $.30. 
The High Cost of Living. Frederic C. Howe. New York: Charles Scribner's Sons, 1917, 

pp.275. $1.50 
The Hospital As a Social Agent in the Community. Lucy C. Catlin, R. N. Philadelphia: 

W. B. Saunders Company, 1918, pp. 113. $1.25. 
Industrial Survey of Cincinnati. Garment Making Industries. Cincinnati Chamber of 

Commerce, January, 1917. 
Tlie Liberty Cook Book. Bertha Stockbridge. New York: D. Appleton and Company, 1918, 

pp. 493. $2.00. 
Selling and Textiles. Annabell Turner, B.S. New York: D. Appleton and Company, 1918, 

pp. 246. $1.75. 
Economical War-time Cook Book. Janet McKenzie Hill, Boston: The Boston Cooking 

School Magazine Companj', 1918, pp. 64. $.25. 



PAMPHLETS RECEIVED 

Issued by the United States Food Administration: 
The Day's Food in War and Peace. 

Issued by the United States Department of Labor, Children's Bureau: 
Child Care, Part L The Preschool Age. Mrs. Max West. Care of Children Series No. 8, 
Bureau Publication No. 30. 

Issued by the Department of the Interior, Bureau of Education: 

Borne Economics Circulars: No. 2, Current Problems in Home Economics; No. 3. Home Eco- 
nomics Teaching in Small High Schools; No. 4, Principles and Policies in Home Eco- 
nomics Education; No. 6, A Course in Food Economies for the Housekeeper. 

A Community Center. Henry E. Jackson. Bulletin, 1918, No. 11. 

Teacher's Leaflets: No. 2, Education in Patriotism; No. 3, Government Policies Involving the 
Schools in War Time. 

The Land Grant of 1S62 and the Land-Grant Colleges. Benj. F. Andrews. Bulletm, 1918, 
No. 13. 

Training in Courtesy. Margaret S. McNaught. Bulletin, 1917, No. 54. 

Issued by the United States Department of Agriculture: 
The City and Suburban Vegetable Garden. H. M. ConoUy. Farmers' Bulletin 936. 
Experiments on the Digestibility of Fish. A. D. Holmes. Bulletin No. 649. 



432 THE joxjRNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [September 

Farm Home Conveniences. Madge J. Reese. Farmers' Bulletin 927. 

Farm and Home Drying of Fruits and Vegetables. Joseph S. CaldwelL Farmers' Bulletin 984. 

Marketing Butter and Cheese by Parcel Post. Lewis B. Flohr and Roy C. Potts. Farmers' 

Bulletin 930. 
Save Wheat — Use Wheat Substitutes. Kitchen Card. States Relations Service. 
Studies on the Digestibility of Some Nut Oils. A. D. Holmes. Bulletin No. 630. 
United States Food Leaflets: No. 16, Fresh Vegetables; No. 17, Use More Fish; No. 18, Rice; 

No. 19, Hominy; No. 20, Wheatless Breads and Cakes. (U. S. Dept. Agr. and U. S. Food 

Administration.) 
Use Barley — Save Wheat. Circular No. 111. 
Use Peanut Flour to Save Wheat. Circular No. 1 10 . 
Use Soy Bean Flour to Save Wheat, Meat, and Fat. Circular No. 113. 
Women on the Farm. Clarence Ousley. 

Issued by the United States Public Health Service: 
The Application of Ozone to the Purification of Swimming Pools. Wallace A. ManheuBer. 

Reprint No. 456. 
Extra-Cantonment Zone Sanitation. S. B. Grubbs. Reprint No. 457. 
Pellagra: Its Nature and Prevention. Joseph Goldberger. Reprint No. 461. 

Issued by the Federal Board for Vocational Education: 
The Evolution of National Systems of Vocational Reeducation for Disabled Soldiers md SaUers. 

Douglass C. McMurtrie. Bulletin No. 15. 
Reference Material for Vocational Agricultural Instruction. Bulletin No. 14. 
The Smith-Hughes Act. (Papers showing the relation of the Smith-Hughes Act to the trainiac 

of teachers in home economics, agriculture, trades and industries, etc.) 

Issued by the National Society for Vocational Education: 
Problems of Administering the Federal Act for Vocational Education. Bulletin No. 26. 
Vocational Training in War Time. Bulletin No. 27. 

Issued by the University of Illinois: 
Meat. Lucile Wheeler. Bulletin Vol. XV, No. 43. 
Milk. Ruth Wheeler. BuUetin Vol. XV, No. 42. 

Practical Suggestions for Food Conservation. Isabel Bevier. Bulletin Vol. XV, No. 22. 
War Activities and Moral Leadership, Edmund Janes James. Bulletin Vol. XV. No. 3(. 
The War Garden. J. W. Lloyd. Bulletin Vol. XV, No. 25. 
Wheat Saving. Ruth \A'heeler. Bulletin Vol. XV, No. 24. 

Issued by the University of Wisconsin : 
Food Conservation through Utilisation of Garbage Waste. Serial No. 900. General Series S». 

690. 
Make Your Recipes American. Kitchen Poster Bulletin, June, 1918. 

Issued by the University of Rochester and Mechanics Institute: 
Menus for National Needs. Vol. 1, No. 3. 
Tested Menus and Recipes Based on a Low Cost Dietary. Vol. 1. No. 2. 

Issued by the Utah Agricultural College: 
Labor-Saving Devices in the Household. Alice Ravenhill. 
War Times Recipes. Dept. of Home Economics. 



1918] BOOKS AND LITERATURE 433 

Issued by the Vermont Agricultural Extension Service: 
Using Wheat Substitutes. Bertha M. Terrill. Circular No. 12. 
"Substitute" Breads, Biscuits and Muffins. Bertha M. Terrill. Circular No. 13. 

Issued by the publishers listed: 
Beware of the Dangerous House Fly. The Merchants' .Association of New York, 1918 Bulletin. 
Bibliography of Food Economy for the Hoiisru-ife. Home Economics Series. No. 2, March, 

1918, State College of Washington, PuUman, Washington. 
Children's Year Bulletin. June, 1918. CaHfomia State Board of Health. 
Clothing Conservation for Home and Community. Marion WeUer. University of Minnesota, 

Special Bulletin No. 25. 
Conservation Recipes and Suggestions. Minnesota Farmers' Library, Agricultural Extension 

Bulletin No. 64. 
"The Dietary Automobile." Charles S. Pitcher, Reprint from the New York State Hospital 

Quarterly, February, 1918. 
Natural Gas Cooking Operations in the Home. Ohio State University Bulletin, Vol. XXII, 

No, 28. 
Home Canning and Drying of Vegetables and Fruits. National War Garden Commission, 

Washington, D. C. 
Institutional Recipes. Bureau of Conservation for New York City. Form No. 104. 
Milk Supply and Public H-alth. Ella Groenewold. Reprint from the Quarterly Journal of 

the University of North Dakota, Vol, VTII, No. 3. 
Mother Goose in War Time. Department of Patriotic Education, Women's Committe, National 

Council of Defense, Missouri Division. 10 cents, 
"My Money Won't Reach, . . ." C. O. S., 105 E. 22 St., N. Y. C. 



BIBLIOGRAPHY OF HOME ECONOMICS 

PERIODICAL LITERATURE 
Foods and Cookery 

Food-borne Infections. Edwin O. Jordan, Science, 47 (1918) pp. 80-86, 

Measures for Protecting WTieat Flour Substitutes from Insects. Royal N. Chapman, 
Science, 47 (1918), pp. 579-581. 

A New Improved Method for Obtaining Pectin from Fruits and Vegetables. C. A. 
Magoon and J. S. CaldweU, Science, 47 (1918), pp. 423-429. 

Increased Food Production. Elmer Sherman, Jour. N. E. A., June. 

Reser\'es — Food Insurance. Charles Ryan, Amer. Food Jour., July. 

The Requisites of a National Food Policy. Walter H. Hamilton, Jour. Polit. Econ., June. 

The Wheat Standards and their Application. George Li\-ingston, Amer. Food Jour,, July. 

Food Conservation in Militar>' Hospitals. Modern Hospital, July. 

Why Save Sugar? Charles Ryan, Amer. Food Jour., June. 

The American Bean Helping to Win the War. Robert H. Moulton, Amer. Cookery, July. 

Food Conservation at the University Hospital, Philadelphia. Marion E. Smith, Mod. 
Hosp., June. 

Feeding the Nurse. .Alice U. Fewell. Amer. Jour. Nursing, July. 

Modem Methods of Crj'stallizing Margarine Emulsion. Alan Porter Lee, Amer. Food 
Jour., July. 

Oleomargarines and Other Fats. Mod. Hosp., June. 



434 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [September 

Nutrition 

Shall We Eat Whole- Wheat Bread? R. A. Dutcher, Science, 47 (1918), pp. 228-232. 

A Chemical Study of Enzyme Action. K. George Falk, Science, 47 (1918), pp. 423-429. 

Some Problems of Nutrition in the Army. Major John Murlin, Science, 47 (1918), pp. 
495-508. 

Gastric Discharge, Secretion and Duodenal Regurgitation. Morse, Ar. In!. Med., 21 
(1918), p. 48. An interesting study of the rate of secretion and of discharge as influenced by 
HCl, NaCl, NaCHa, COO and tobasco. 

Gastric Secretion and Fever. Carlson et al., Ar. Int. Med., 21 (1918), p. 354. Secretion 
inhibited by fever or high external temperature. 

Tyramin, Action on the Circulation of Man. Hewlett, Ar, Int. Med,, 21. (1918), p. 411. 
A further contribution to the physiology of the amines which may be caused by putrefactive 
bacteria in the intestine. 

The Influence of the Degree of Fattening of Cattle on the Utilization of Feed. Armsby 
z.nAVnsi, Jour. Agr. Res., 11 (1917), p. 451. Very fat animals do not utilize food economically. 
Commenting on this work, the /. A. M. A. says editorially that our obese citizens should bum 
their own fat and save fuel for fighters. 

Reduced O.xidation. Martinet al., Jour, Exp. Med., 27 (1918), p. 399. The effect of 
breathing air of low o.xygen and air of normal oxygen and high carbon dioxide respectively, on 
extension of bone marrow and on gland tissue. 

Miscellaneous 

Home Economics in the War. Sarah Louise Arnold, Gen. Fed. Mag., July. (Contains 
several other articles on Home Economics and Food Conservation.) 

The Cost of Healthy Children. Jessica Peixotto, Mothers Mag., July. 

Twenty-five Years of Child Welfare Work in Canada. Hastings H. Hart,5Mrtii;y. May 11. 

A Demonstration in Health Education. Camelia W. Uzzell, Survey, June 1. 

The Health of Soldiers and Civilians. Gertrude Seymour, Survey, May 11. 

War Time Sanitation. Cal. State Board of Health Bui., May. 

Living on 25 cents a Day. Mary S. Rose and others. Teachers Coll. Rec., May. 

Hospital Housekeeping, Its Worries and Cares. Mary A. Jamieson, Mod. Eosp., July. 

The Case Against Hard Water. Roberts Hulbert. Special Bulletin, N. D. Agr. Exp. 
Sla„ March. 

Economy of Time in Teaching Sewing. Janet G. Cation, Indus. Arts Mag., July. 

Rural School as a Social Center. Mrs. Thomas Hayes, Jour. N. E. A., June. 

Home Service in a Rural Community. W. Frank Persons, Survey, June 29. 

A Study of the War's Effect Upon Li\ang Conditions. John Ihlder, Survey, June 1 . 

Textiles 

Government Requirements Still Dominating Market, Textile World Jour., April 13, 1918. 

Dyeing Artificial Silk. Color Trade Jour., Mar., 1918. 

Tests for Cotton and Linen. Textile World Jour., Apr. 23, 1918. 

Linen Trade Restrictions. Textile World Jour., Mar. 23, 1918. 

The Linen Situation. Dry Goads Economist, Mar. 9, 1918. 



NEWS FROM THE FIELD 



The Eleventh Annual Meeting of the 
American Home Economics Association 

was held at HuU House and the University 
of Chicago, Chicago, 111., June 27 to 29, 
1918. There were three sessions daily. 
The program was extensive in scope, timely 
in interest, and the speakers presented their 
subjects effectively. 

Five council meetings were held, with an 
average attendance of eighteen. 

Miss Sarah Louise Arnold, as Chairman of 
the Committee on Reorganization, presented 
the following as the reaffirmed policy of the 
Association: 

"It is voted to work through the coming 
year, individually and collectively, in full 
cooperation with government agencies, to 
fonvard the following causes: 

I. To estabhsh and maintain instruction 
in the elements of home management, in- 
cluding the principles of nutrition, the proper 
choice and preparation of foods, thrift and 
economy in the use of clothing, fuel, and 
other household essentials, to all girls in the 
higher elementary grades and in the high 
schools, at least in the first two years. 

II. Inasmuch as the administration of the 
household is of common interest and impor- 
tance to both men and women,and the mainte- 
nance of the individual away from home also 
demands an understanding of these matters, 
to urge appropriate instruction for boys as 
well as for girls, as far as practicable, in mat- 
ters relative to the welfare and maintenance 
of the individual and of the home. 

III. To promote the establishment of de- 
partments of home economics in normal 
schools and colleges, and of courses dealing 
with questions of public health, nutrition, 
and thrift, open to all students, both men 
and women. 

IV. To cooperate in the extension of 
home economics instruction in the conserva- 



tion of food, fuel, clothing and other house- 
hold essentials to housewives desiring such 
assistance. 

V. To further, individually and collec- 
tively, the campaign for child welfare 
through the establishment of courses of in- 
struction in child care and child %velfare in 
schools and colleges, and through active 
cooperation with the Children's Bureau. 

VI. To aid all corrmiunity enterprises 
which extend the ideals of home economics 
or promote the improvement and mainte- 
nance of health. 

VII To support and maintain the Jour- 
nal or HouE Economics as a means of ex- 
tending knowledge of the subject and of 
promoting thought and discussion. 

VIII. To promote research by encourag- 
ing and aiding investigations and research 
in universities, and by meetings local and 
national, in order that knowledge may be 
increased, and public opinion informed, and 
advancement made secure by legislative 
enactment. 

DC. To give active support to all legisla- 
tion, state and federal, which aims to se- 
cure any of the ends which we are working 
to promote. 

X. For the above purposes to raUy all the 
members of the national association; to 
stimulate local and state associations to in- 
creased endeavor in these directions; and 
to ask for the cooperation of other existing 
volunteer agencies now engaged in related 
movements such as the Federation of Wom- 
en's Clubs, the Red Cross. Social Service 
Organizations, Public Health Nursing As- 
sociations. 

The Council of the Association is hereby 
authorized and empowered to take appropri- 
ate measures to fonvard this program." 

It was agreed by all members present at 
the meeting Friday afternoon, June 28, 
that each should assume a definite respon- 
435 



436 



THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS 



[September 



sibility for increasing subscriptions to the 
Journal of Home Economics, each member 
present pledging herself to secure a definite 
number of new subscriptions. 

At the Annual Business Meeting, held on 
Saturday, June 29, announcement was 
made of the election of the following officers: 

Elected by the Council: President, Miss 
Edna White; Secretary, Miss Cora M. 
Winchell; Treasurer, Mr. H. G. Turpin. 

Elected by the Association: Vice-President, 
Dr. C. F. Langworthy; Councilors (terms 
expire 1923), Miss Maude Murchie, State 
Superintendent of Teacher Training Class, 
Sacramento, California; Miss Florence E. 
Ward, States Relations Service,Oflfice of Exten- 
sion Work, North and West; Miss .Alice 
Ravenhill, Agricultural College, Logan, Utah; 
Dr. E. V. McCoUum, Johns Hopkins Uni- 
versity, Baltimore, Md.; Miss Mary Gear- 
ing, University of Texas, Austin, Texas. 

The following plan for regular meetings 
of the Association was announced at this 
meeting: 

(1) \ sectional meeting, to be held at the 
time and place of the Department of Super- 
intendence, N. E. A. 

(2) The annual meeting, to be held dur- 
ing the week preceding the annual meeting 
of the N. E. h., and at a place convenient 
to the N. E. A. meetings. 

(3) A sectional meeting, immediately fol- 
lowing the annual meeting, at the N. E. A. 
meeting. 

Mrs. Henrietta W. Calvin was reappointed 
chairman of the program committee with 
the chairmen of the sections as the members 
of her committee. 

Expressions of appreciation were voted by 
the Council to retiring officers, to the speak- 
ers from other organizations, to Mrs. Alice 
P. Norton and Miss Keturah Baldwin for 
their effective ser\-ices on the Journal ok 
Home Economics, and to Mrs. Calvin as 
chairman of the program committee for the 
annual meeting; and to all those who had 
rendered hospitahty to the Association at 
the ;:nnual meeting. 



The personnel of the Journal Board and 
the Ellen H. Richards Fund Trustees will 
be found elsewhere in of the Journal. 

The sectional meetings were well attended 
and specific plans were outlined for the year's 
work. The chairmen for the ensuing year 
are as follows: Institution Economics Sec- 
tion, Elsie Leonard; Extension Section, 
Agnes Ellen Harris; Te.xtiles Section, Grace 
Denny; Science Section, Katharine Blunt. 
Cora Winchell, Sec'y. 



An Educational War Service Campaign 

was carried on in the public schools of New 
York City, May 27- June 7, under the Division 
of Domestic Science, assisted by the De- 
partment of Physical Training. 

During the period of two weeks, the time 
devoted to hygiene in every school room in 
New York City was given to instruction in 
the value, use, preparation, and conserva- 
tion of food, in a practical, homelike way, 
directly applying to the present necessity 
for food and health conservation. The main 
emphasis was placed on the use of right 
foods; save for the war; keep well, that 
the doctors and nurses may serve our 
soldiers and the people in Europe. 

As part of the campaign, 1,957,800 Food 
Administration leaflets were taken to the 
homes of the New Yorkers, by the hands of 
the school children. These bulletins were 
provided by the City and Federal Food 
Administrations, on the subjects — "Milk," 
"Cereals," "Fruits as Substitutes for 
Sugar," and "Vegetables." In addition 
88,000 lesson outlines appropriate to the 
different grades were distributed for the 
teachers' use. These were printed by the 
boys of the vocational schools. 

In every school one or more assembly 
periods were devoted to the subject of food 
conservation. These were conducted by 
lecturers provided by the Domestic Science 
Department, the Federal and City Food 
Administrations, the City Bureau of Public 
Markets, and the Department of Health. 



Vol. X, No. 10 ' October, 1918 

THE 

Journal of Home Economics 

For those interested in Homemaking, Institution Management, 
and Educational Work in Home Economics 

Mrs. Axice P. Xortox. Editor Keturah E. Baldwin*, .\fanagtng Editor 

Editorial Foard 
Mrs. Mary H. Abel C. F. Langworthv Ethel\\'yn Miller Ruth Wheeler Amy Daniels 

Ex-Officio Members — Edna N. White, President American Home Economics Association 
Elsie Leonard, Chairman Institution Economics Section 
Katherxne Blunt, Chairman Science Section 
Agnes E. Harjus. Chairman Extension Education Section 
Grace Denny, Chairman Textile Section 

CoUahorators— The Officer?. Members of the Council, and Advi?-ors 

CONTENTS 

Teachdjg the Clothtxg Budget Jaiicl G Cation 437 

Mon-Dah-Mix and the Red Man's Uses or Indian Corn Hcn-Tok, Wyandot 444 

P.APER Textiles LilHan B. Storms 451 

College Students' Accounts Sara McLeod 457 

How Cooperation IS Being Applied IN A F.AR Western UxnT^RsiTY . . Jessie B. Rothgeb 460 

The International Scientific Committee 462 

For the Homemaker 

The Hostess House Cafeteria Marion E. Hopkins 463 

Conservation of Tln 466 

Fn-E Filthy Fingers 468 

A Gas ISIasque 469 

Mixed FLOUTt 469 

The Wild Crabapple for Jelly Making Katharine Martindale 471 

Fat and Calories 47 1 

Table of Measures 472 

Editorlal 473 

Comment and Discussion 474 

Books and Literature 477 

Books Receu'ed 479 

Pamphlets Received 480 

Biblioge.\phy of Home EcoNOMtrs 481 

News From the Field 483 

The Journal OF HoilE E:ON'Oincs is published monthly by the Americin Home Economics Association. 
$2.00 A YEAR. FOREIGN J2.3?. CANADIAN $2.2C SINGLE COPIES 25 CENTS 

.■;H0WT0 remit. Remittances should be sent by Check. Express Order or Postal Money Order, payable to the 
AJmerican Home Economics .Association. Currency, unless mailed in a rej^istered letter, is at the sender's nsk. 

NOTICE. When payment is made by check no receipt will be sent unless requested. 
r^CHANGE IN .ADDRESS. Notice of change in address should be sent Two Weeks before the date of issue on which 
the change is to take effect. The subscriber's Old .Address should be clearly indicated in .addition to the New .Address. 

AMERICAN HOME ECOXOMICS ASSOCIATION 1211 Cathedral St., Baltimore, Md. 

Entered as second class matter at the Baltimore Post OfHce 

The Jour-V.u. of Hosie EcOMOsncs is on sale at John Wanamaker's, Philadelphia; The Old Corner Book Store, Boston; 

.A. C. McClurg's. Chicago; Baltimore News Company, Baltimore: Woodw.ard and Lothrop, Washington 



The safety of our nation 
depends on community 
defense against disease at 
home as well as on success 
in the struggle against 
Prussian autocracy abroad. 
Through the development 
and extension and improve- 
ment of the public health 
nursing service we can help 
to build up the national 
forces that can win the 
war, and v^e can render to 
our allies through this 
peculiarly American type 
of social service, material aid 
in the reconstruction that 
must follow^ afterwards. 

C.-E. A. Winslow 



THE 

Journal of Home Economics 

Vol. X OCTOBER, 1918 No. 10 

TEACHING THE CLOTHING BUDGET 

JANET G. CATION 

Iowa Stale College 

A few years ago, a young boy was working for a dry goods store during 
his Christmas vacation. He was assigned to a delivery wagon with 
another young man and his new job increased his appetite to such an 
extent that he found it necessary to stop at his home several times a day 
for something for himself and his pal to eat. One night when he 
came just at supper time his mother asked him to bring his friend in 
for supper. 

The friend, after eating heartily, remarked that that was the best meal 
he had eaten since he had been married two years before. He then told 
his hostess how, soon after completing high school, he had eloped with 
his childhood sweetheart, never dreaming of the future, of their parents' 
wrath, of being turned out of their homes and thrust entirely upon their 
own resources; yet this was exactly what happened to him. 

He had had no training for commercial work, nor for a skilled trade, 
and the only thing which offered itself at that time was driving a delivery 
wagon for which he received ten dollars a week. He and his wife found 
some furnished rooms, and started housekeeping. The young wife was 
no more ready for her profession than was her husband for his, but she 
had no difficulty in starting a grocery charge account. Her first week's 
bill was $12.00. 

"We got behind then, and we've never been able to catch up," he 
concluded. 

437 



438 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS fOctober 

What a tragedy for two young people to go through high school with- 
out learning the best way of dividing a dollar! 
A domestic science teacher tells this story: 

A few years ago I taught where I could go home for an occasional week-end. 
I was continually surprised at the seemingly unnecessary things my sixteen 
year old sister was always buying. I often said to my mother, "Why did \'ou 
let Margaret get that?" 

"Well, all the girls in the neighborhood have it and I hate to have her go 
without," the reply would usually be. 

Many times I would hear Margaret ask, "May I get a certain thing? Ruth 
has it." If her first demands weren't successful, her later ones usually were. 

One time, my mother had twenty dollars to spend for a dress, and instead 
of getting the dress, she put ten of it into a muff for my sister. 

This time I became angry. I remarked, "How far is this thing going? Do 
you let Margaret get everything she wants?" 

"You have no idea of the problem of the mother with a moderate income, 
whose children associate with girls who have everything they want," my 
mother replied. "I'll do a good deal to keep peace in the family." 

Several months passed, before I reahzed that I was to blame for this state of 
affairs. I wasn't helping them solve their difficulties. 

The time came when Margaret wanted a new party dress. "Whom in the 
family do you want to go without something in order to let you have it?" I 
asked. She didn't want anyone to go without, but didn't see why any one 
should. 

Then we sat down and did some figuring. We looked up the division of the 
income in Kinne and Cooley and found that only 15 per cent should be spent 
for clothing. 

We divided that amount up between the five members of the family, giving 
her by far the largest share, because being a girl, she needed more than our 
brother who was also in high school. Being si.xteen she needed more than our 
ten year old sister, and couldn't have things made over so easily. Being out 
every day, she needed more than mother. 

Next we computed in a rough way, the cost of her clothes for the past year, 
and found that she far exceeded her rightful share. 

"Now," I said, "it is no problem for Ruth to buy clothes, for her father 
makes much more money than our father does, but you have a wonderfully 
interesting problem, and we'll not tell anyone, but we'll see how well we can 
solve it." 

"Not tell anyone," she replied, "I want to tell Mary and Louise right way, 
so we can all do it." 

So I helped all three girls plan their budgets, and when I came home I had 
all three to look over. 



1918} TEACHING THE CLOTHING BUDGET 439 

Meanwhile the other mothers confided that the}' could not afford all they 
got for their girls, but let them get things because the otliers all had them. 

All three girls are still keeping budgets. All, now, have their allowances, 
and the question of clothes is rarely mentioned in our homes. 

Last summer, I was on a street car with one of my pupils. I never 
saw her look so attractive, and I said to her, "Francis, that is the prettiest 
dress I've ever seen you wear." 

"Yes," she replied, "I just teased and teased pa for it. He didn't 
want me to have it, but I finally got it out of him. It cost $16.50." 

If girls understood the division of the income, would they tease 
and tease for things? Would they be willing to see $16.50, from a week's 
salary that was not much larger, go for a single dress? Would these 
children make their parents miserable by wanting more than their 
share? 

Why have we not taught the clothing budget? Perhaps the main 
reason is that we have had no concrete information in our books as to 
how to do it. 

How shall we begin? I usually start by explaining to the girls that 
the budget is merely a plan to determine in advance the sum one may 
spend for clothing for the year. As a foundation for the work, an in- 
ventory must be taken of the clothing on hand. 

If girls have never done this, they will think it is an impossible task, for 
they can not remember what they have, nor what their clothes cost. 
They will find it much simplified when they group their clothing into 
outer garments, under garments, shoes and stockings, hats and gloves, 
miscellaneous (as handkerchiefs, ties, veils, and ribbons). 

Our ne.xt step is to choose an income of $1200, since we try not to be 
personal. Although this is higher than that of the average of our 
students, it is difficult to do much figuring with anything less. 

The division of the income has changed materially since prices have 
advanced, but economists do not allow us any more for clothing; so for 
our $1200 income, we must keep as nearly as possible to our 15 per cent 
or 20 per cent at most. 

We selected the typical family of three children, choosing as the ages a 
girl of sixteen, boy of fourteen, and girl of twelve. Next we divided the 
$240 into amounts for each member of the family. 

Now we returned to the girls' own budgets. Most of them were about 
$125 and it did not take them long to see that they were too high. 



440 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOsncs [October 

How to reduce them was our next problem. We analyzed the budgets, 
picking out the necessary things, and the things they seldom wore. This 
brought up the question of how they bought things and why they bought 
them. Perhaps they were attracted by a belt or a tie which was only a 
fad and did not harmonize with their other clothing. 

It is the experience of most people that the useless things in the ward- 
robe are those things bought on the spur of the moment, without thought 
of future use. I myself once bought a dress to wear to an exclusive 
party. It was exactly the thing for that party, but I did not stop 
to think that it would be many a month before I should have another oc- 
casion to wear such a dress. It hung in my closet for years. I think I 
wore it three times in all. It would have been far better for me to have 
bought a much simpler dress that I might have worn on more occasions. 

The best dressed woman I know has one of the smallest wardrobes 
I have ever seen. She plans her clothes so carefully that she never has 
even one superfluous thing. She does not decide suddenly, but thinlcs 
months ahead of what will suit her needs for the next season. She told 
me in June what she intended getting this fall, and I know that when I see 
her, I shall find that she got practically what she said she would. 

Careful planning, then, is necessary if we live on a budget. In our 
budget study at Ames, we decided that in order to do this careful 
planning we must know something about values in our own town. Such 
questions came up as: How much must we pay for a ready-made dress? 
How cheaply can we duplicate the ready made dress? How much better 
dress can we have, if we make it, putting the cost of the ready made gar- 
ment into material? Through an appropriation at the college, we were 
able to make some garments to find out the answers to these questions. 
I think the same scheme could be worked in any school, through 
the cooperation of the mothers' club, for m.any mothers would gladly 
furnish materials, if they could have the completed garments. 

I had made the remark earlier that one could make a dress for the 
twelve year old girl for a certain low sum, for I had done that very thing 
a few weeks before. I live in a city where each year a store has a big 
mill-end sale, and sells remnants of standard materials at a very low 
price, and the question came, "Can we buy things as reasonably in the 
small towns?" We found some very inexpensive ginghams marked down 
on account of undesirable colors, and got samples of these materials 
and made the laundry tests. We also tried setting the colors before 
we made them up to be sure these cheaper materials would give satis- 



1918] TEACHING THE CLOTHING BUDGET 441 

faction. The fact that there was a real purpose in these tests made the 
girls much more interested in them than they would have been other- 
wise. These tests were made in January, 1917, but the comparison will 
still hold good, although 1918 prices have greatly advanced. 
The result of our study of values showed us : 

1. The average priced good ready made dress cost $1.50. 

2. An exact duplication made in our class cost 78 cents for materials. 
Although tlie home made was half as cheap, 72 cents for labor was not 
high. Since we have many girls from fami homes, we must decide 
whether it will be more economical to make clothes, or spend the time 
on remunerative farm work. 

3. If we put the $1.50 into material, we could make a dress equal to a 
$3.50 ready made. 

4. Bloomers could be bought as economically ready made as we could 
make them. 

5. Petticoats could be made for about half the cost of ready made. 

6. Nightgowns could be bought reasonably. 

7. There was a decided saving in buying ready made clothing at the 
end of the season, or garments which were soiled. 

Through shopping both in a large city and a small town, I found that 
in the small town the standard materials are apt to be a little more 
expensive, but the more expensive materials were far cheaper. 

In ready made clothes, since there was not the demand in Ames for 
the expensive garments, the better grade garments were cheaper than 
in nearby cities, although the assortment was not so large. 

I could only warn my girls of the snares of bargain counters that one 
often meets in the cities, for I found no bargain counters where inferior 
goods were brought in to be pawned off on the unsuspecting public. 

My second year girls compared ready made and home made wool 
dresses. We bought the cheapest ready made dress that contained any 
wool, then bought material and made a wool dress for the same price. 
(These comparisons were made before the wool shortage was apparent.) 

We tried the alkali tests on the two pieces, and found that the home 
made dress was of far better material. We considered, too, the value of 
making over a wool dress. We ripped up an old suit, washed, dyed, and 
pressed it. Meanwhile we learned the characteristics of wool, much 
better than if we had only talked about them. The girls learned more 
in planning that dress and making it, than they did on any other problem 
during the year. 



442 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [Octobcr 

Although we proved that wool dresses that cost about $15 ready made, 
could be made for $7, several of the girls were not willing to give up the 
ready made ones. They liked the spick span tailored look, and thought 
a home made dress looked the part. All could see, however, that if they 
had only $7 to spend for a dress, and they desired a $15 one, something 
must be sacrificed. 

Our budgets as they finally stood were: $45 for the 12 year old 
girl; $50 for the 14 year old boy; $80 for the 16 year old girl. These 
were not as low as they should be, for this left only $70 for the clothing 
for the mother and father, but it is difiicult to do any better unless 
the children are much younger than those we have chosen. 

Let us consider again the high school girl's budget. We found last 
year that on an average the per cents for different divisions of clothing 
were: 50 per cent for outer garments; 12|per cent for under garments; 
18 per cent for shoes and stockings; 12| per cent for hats and gloves; 
7 per cent for miscellaneous. These per cents will probably have to 
be changed the coming year, when a larger amount will be needed for 
shoes and stockings. This amount may be taken from hats and gloves or 
miscellaneous. Last winter, several girls found that they could reduce 
their glove allowance by substituting cotton mittens for the kid gloves 
which they had been in the habit of wearing. They not only saved money 
but also had the satisfaction of feeUng that they were conserving leather. 

In our budgets for $80, the amounts for the different divisions were: 
$40 for outer garments; $10 for undergarments; $14.40 for shoes and 
stockings; $10 for hats and gloves; $5.60 for miscellaneous. 

Does this not suggest problems to the teachers of Domestic Art? 
Does it not give an extra responsibihty in planning our sewing courses? 

If we figure in the budget that $10 should cover the cost of underwear 
for the year, and if we allow 75 cents as my girls did last year for a petti- 
coat, should we not show them how attractive a gannent can be made for 
that price? 

Simple handwork, stickerei braids, and scalloped ruffles of the materials 
should take the place of laces and embroideries. The ingenious teacher 
must never stop her quest for inexpensive trimmings and suitable de- 
signs for handwork. For the past two years, I have not used one yard 
of embroidery in my high school classes, and the results seem equally 
satisfactory to the daughters of college professors getting $3000 a year 
and college janitors getting 



1918] TEACHING THE CLOTHING BUDGET 443 

In connection with our budget work this year we must lay great stress 
on the use of the other textiles in place of wool. 

We should also urge the girls to see that no wool is wasted. If a girl 
outgrows a wool dress, she should remember that there are many people 
in need of it, both in our own country and abroad. If the dress has to be 
remodelled, there should be a place in the curriculum for such woi-k. 

It seemed as if the lovely colored sweaters so much in vogue last year 
were just as popular in June, 1918, as earlier in the year, among our high 
school girls. Are we doing everything we can to inforai the pupils in 
our schools of the wool shortage? Would they be as anxious for the 
sweaters, attractive as they are, if they realized that the wool which goes 
into them may be actually needed to keep the soldiers warm? 

Budgets must not be a series of lessons, which we finish quickly. 
They must be lived every day in our clothing work. Every teacher 
should know the value of the budget through her own experience. 

Finally, all summed up, the following are the reasons why we should 
teach the clothing budget: 

1. More than ever before it is necessary to understand the division 
of the income. 

2. It is only with most careful planning that the family can be clothed 
on 15 to 20 per cent of the income. 

3. It is necessary to understand values in order to do this careful 
planning. 

4. Budget work makes the study of textiles more practical and 
interesting. 

5. It gives an economic aim to our sewing courses. 

6. It will help a girl while she is in high school; it will be useful also if 
she goes to college, or into the business world; it should be invaluable if 
she becomes a homemaker. 

7. With the increased cost of food, coal, and clothing, famihes with 
several children are living under a tremendous strain, such, probably, as 
they have never experienced before. 

If we can do anything to help the mothers solve their problems, or 
make the girls more contented with what they have, we are giving the 
community the service which they have a right to expect from us. 



444 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS fOctober 

MON-DAH-MIN, AND THE RED MAN'S WORLD OLD USES OF 
INDL\N CORN AS FOOD 

HEN-TOH, WYANDOT 

Perhaps more has been written about corn durmg the past few months 
than ever before in the \\'Orld's history. That America taught the world 
the use of it is an undisputed fact; that it is the one most useful, popular, 
and productive cereal is as true. One cannot help but wonder that if, 
v/hen Columbus discovered com m the Western world, and carried it 
back to Spam, instead of the wealth of gold that so many of the early 
discoverers hoped to find and carry back with them, he ever dreamed of the 
benefit he was bringing to the future generations of his world, and of the 
wealth of gold that would be acquired by the knowledge and cultivation 
of the grain which he had found grown by the so-called savages of 
America. 

Scant credit has ever been given the Indians of North America as 
agriculturists, nevertheless when the first white men came as settlers to 
the New World, they found the Lidians, in their crude way, cultivating 
corn, beans, pumpkins, and other products. Each of these furnished 
the tribes of the Eastern part of the country staple articles of food; and 
there was no settled village but had its fields where these were grown in 
sufficient quantities to furnish a large part of the winter stores. 

That the corn was the most popular of these products with the Red- 
man, is evidenced by the beautiful legend in their folk-lore of its origin. 
This tradition, pictured in Mr. Longfellow's Hiawatha, has been credited 
by Mr. Schoolcraft to the Ojibways; yet the same legend with slight 
variations was current among the traditions and lore of all of the Eastern 
tribes, datmg back perhaps to an age when there were no tribal divisions, 
but all of the Indians were as one people. I have heard the legend from 
the lips of old Indians of the Wyandot, Seneca, and Shawnee tribes, 
during my childhood. 

I can recall Hstening to it and to many other old Indian stories, from 
the lips of an aged Aunt who lived many years in my mother's family. 
Her version was as I give it here. 

In the very olden times a poor Indian lived with his family in a beauti- 
ful part of the country. He was poor indeed, and not only that but he 
was not a good hunter so he did not have an easy time getting food for 
his family. 



1918] MON-DAH-illN 445 

He was a good and kind man, however, and never forgot to be thankful 
to the Great Spirit for all that he received. This gentle disposition was 
also shown in his eldest son, who from his eariiest childhood had always 
been most kind and thoughtful to and for everyone. 

When the time came that this gentle 3'outh was passing from boyhood 
to voung manhood, it became necessary for him to undergo the cere- 
mony of fasting and seclusion for a period, to know what kind of a spirit 
would be his guide through life, and to ascertain what would be his 
vocation. 

In the days of earl}- spring, his father built the boy a little lodge in a 
secluded spot, where he would be in no way disturbed during the sacred 
rite, and the boy, after preparing himself in the customary manner, went 
to his quiet lodge and began his fast. For a time during the first days he 
took long walks through the deep quiet forest and over the hills, watching 
the early springing grasses and flowers, and wondering about the great 
power that caused them to grow and develop. Returning to his lonely 
lodge exhausted in body, he would throw himself down on his rude couch 
of skins and fall into a deep sleep. His mind, stored with the thoughts 
of the plants and flowers, would bring to him pleasant dreams of them; 
until his one thought was that his guardian Spirit might be one that 
v>-ould bring to his people something that would be a greater blessing 
than was hitherto known to them ; something that would make it easier 
for them to procure food than by hunting and fishing. Surely the 
Great Spirit would allow them this blessing. 

On the third day he was weak and faint, and while lying on his couch 
he fancied that he saw a handsome youth about his own age coming 
slowly towards him from the distance. This youth was gaily dressed 
in hghtly flowing gannents of many shades of green; on his head he wore 
a feathery plume of pale j'ellow and every movement that he made was 
easy and graceful. He quietly entered the door of the boy's lodge and 
stood smiling before him saying: 

"I come to you, my friend, from the Great Spirit who has made all 
things. He knows that you desire not to become a great warrior, and so 
win praise, but that you long to bring about some greater blessing to all of 
your people. I am sent to instruct you how your wish can be realized." 
He then told the boj' to arise and wrestle with him, for it was only by 
such means that his wish might be gained. The boy felt that his fasting 
had weakened him; yet his courage was so great that he arose and deter- 
mined to conquer his handsome opponent. The trial began and when the 



446 THE JOXJRNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [October 

boy was nearly exliausted and felt that he must fail, the stranger said: 
"My friend, 'tis enough now, I will come again to try you tomorrow." 
Smilingly he passed out of the lodge, and seemed to fade away into the 
air. 

At the same hour on the following day, the youth came again to renew 
the trial. The boy felt that he was weaker than the day before; yet his 
courage again arose even stronger, and he wrestled manfully to the point 
of exhaustion, when again the stranger gently told him to desist, adding: 
"My friend, tomorrow will be your last real trial. Be strong, for it is 
only thus that you can overcome me and obtain your desire." 

On the third day, the stranger appeared at the same hour, and once 
more the struggle was renewed. The poor boy was very faint with 
weakness, and again his courage flamed to greatness and he exerted every 
power, determined more than ever to win the contest or to perish. At 
last the handsome stranger ceased his efforts and said that he was con- 
quered. Seating himself beside the boy he began telling him what he 
must do to receive the advantages of his victory. 

He said: "You have wrestled manfully, my friend, and have gained 
your wish from the Great Spirit. Tomorrow I shall meet and wrestle 
with you for the last time; and when you have thrown me down, you 
will strip me of my beautiful garments. You must clear this spot of 
weeds and grasses, make the earth soft and bury me beneath the soft 
clean soil. Leave me there and do not disturb me, but come often to see 
if I have yet come to life. Be very careful not to let the weeds and grasses 
grow upon my grave, and every few weeks dig up the soft dirt above me 
and put over me another covering of the soft earth. If you do all this, 
you will obtain your wish to do good to your fellow creatures." 

In the early morning the boy's father came to the lodge bringing a 
small bowl of food, saying: "My son, your fast has been as long as custom 
requires. If the Great Spirit is to grant your desires he will do it now. 
Seven days have passed since you have taken food, and the Master of 
Life does not ask that you sacrifice your life." 

"My father," the boy repHed, "wait until the sun is there," and he 
pointed to the western horizon. "I must extend my fast to that hour." 

"Very well," sorrowfully returned the old man, "I shall wait until that 
hour comes and will return." 

At the usual hour, the stranger came, and the wrestling was renewed. 
The boy had not taken any of the food his father had brought; yet he 
felt that new and mighty strength had been given to him. He grasped 



1918] MON-DAH-MIN 447 

his supernatural antagonist, threw him down and took from him his 
beautiful garments of green, and his yellow plume. Finding him dead, 
he buried his body at once on the spot, being very careful to observe 
each and all of the instructions that had been given to him. He felt 
assured that his friend would again come to life. 

Then he returned to his father's lodge and ate lightly of the food that 
was at once placed before him. 

Never for a moment did he forget the grave of his friend; but visited 
it often and kept the weeds and grasses from growing on it. One day 
late in the summer when his father had returned from a hunting trip, he 
asked him to go with him to the scene of his fast. In the midst of the 
spot where the boy had buried his friend there was growing a stately and 
beautiful plant with nodding plumes, broad and graceful leaves, and 
clusters of grain on each side. 

The boy pointed to it and said: "Oh my father! See, this is my friend, 
and the friend of all of our people. It is Mon-dah-min. Henceforth we 
will not need to depend on the chase alone for our food, for as long as this 
gift is cared for, the earth alone will give us food. This, oh my father, is 
what I fasted for and the Great Spirit has heard my voice and given to 
us this new blessing." 

Gathering some of the ears, the father and son took them to their 
lodge, and the whole family joined in a feast of the new-grown ears of 
corn, not forgetting to thank the Great Spirit for the treasure that had 
been given them. It was in this way that corn came into the world. 

Tradition says further that this first corn was the red, white, and blue- 
grained flour corn, or as it has been called, "squaw-corn," and this even 
today is the most highly prized. For generations the seed has been pre- 
h:erved, and its uses as food have been handed down. Go into any Indian 
country, and you will most certainly find it in use. 

The popularity of corn among the Indians is shown by the many dif- 
ferent ways in which all of the various tribes prepare it for food. Many 
of such methods of preparation, long used by the Indians and handed 
down and taught from one generation to another within the tribes, have 
never become widely and popularly known. Some of these were almost 
universally used while others were peculiar only to certain tribes. 

Any written recipe for the making of, as they are called in the Wyandot 
tongue, Tohn-tah, Eh-shren-tih, Skch-anh, Neh-hen-tah-wih, and Teh, 
3'es, and No-muh-shren-dah-tah-rah, is something strange to think of; 
yet each of these unpronounceable names designate a separate and dis- 



448 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [October 

tinct preparation of food made from the Indian corn, that has been well 
known and relished by all of the Eastern tribes and their descendants for 
ages past. The method of preparation in each tribe is the same, yet 
each tribe gives the product a name in its own language or dialect. Among 
the remnants of the Wyandot, Shawnee, Seneca, Ottawa, Peoria, Miami, 
Quapaw, and Delaware tribes, as well as many others, some or all of 
these products are yet made, and prove to be the most substantial of 
their winter stores. Among many families with only a mere trace of 
Indian blood these products are considered of the choicest, and no field or 
garden is v;ithout its squaw-corn patch for the making of these most 
palatable dishes, and the white settlers living among the Indians are 
always anxious to secure a supply of these Indian products. 

All of them are what would be generally termed, "dried corn;" yet the 
different way in which each one is prepared and then cooked for the table, 
makes it quite a distinctive dish. In all probability, Neh-hen-tah-wih 
is the most popular. It is made in this way. The blue and red squaw- 
corn is taken when in roasting-ear, and roasted over hot coals until the 
milk is cooked, the grains being slightly parched. Care must be taken 
not to scorch or burn them. The time honored way of roasting corn, 
among the Indians, was to dig a trench about a foot in depth, and from 
eight to ten feet long. A fire of green and dry logs was made in this 
trench, and allowed to burn down to a good bed of hot and glowing coals. 
The roasting-ears were gathered and husked, and the long stems or 
shanks left on the ears. A forked stick was driven in the ground at each 
end of the trench, and a green pole placed across. Along each side of 
this pole, with their ends resting on the ground were placed the ears of 
corn, and when the side of the ear Just over the hot coals was roasted, a 
turn of the ear was made, and the other side roasted. This is not an easy 
task by any means; but is on the contrary, well termed in the present day 
vernacular, "a hot job." My brother and I when m.aking the winter's 
supply last season, found it much easier to stretch a strip of chicken -wire 
over the trench of coals, and lay the ears on this. WTien the corn is all 
roasted and the ears have cooled, the grains are shelled from the cobs with 
a spoon or a knife, and are then thoroughly dried either in the sun or in a 
dryer, and put away in sacks for winter use. The sacks of corn should 
be put out in the sun for a time every few days, for a month or more after 
it is made. This drives away any moisture that might cause the corn to 
mould. 



1918] MON-DAH-MIN 449 

When Neh-hen-tah-wili is to be cooked for the table, two teacups of 
the dried corn will make enough for a family of five or six. It is put into 
a kettle of cold water, just after breakfast is over, placed on the fire and 
allowed to simmer and boil until dinner time. Plenty of water is used, 
for the soup is the best part, and a ham-bone, a piece of bacon, or of bacon 
rind, is put into the pot for seasoning. Fresh cracklings cooked With this 
corn make the best soup that one ever tasted. 

After the soup has been eaten there is always the greater part of the 
corn left in the kettle. This can be warmed over in the kettle for another 
meal, or can be put into a skillet and, with perhaps a bit of other season- 
ing, makes another most palatable dish, far more so than ordinary canned 
corn. Any corn that is still left may be warmed over for several days and 
is better each time. There is never any of it to be thrown away, unless it 
should sour when the weather is too warm. 

Tohn-tah was one of the principal supphes of the Indian warrior, ages 
ago, carried in a buckskin pouch at his girdle, when he started forth on 
the war-path or other long journey. It is usually made from the white 
flour corn or, as the Indians call it, the "bread-corn." The ripened grains 
are shelled and parched to a crisp brown. These are then ground in a 
mortar to a fine meal. Sometimes just a bit of salt was mixed with this, 
and again a bit of maple sugar. Carried on the trail in a buckskin bag, 
a small handful of this moistened with a little water, or even eaten dry, 
made a hurried yet sustaining meal, both palatable and nutritious. 
Since the war-path and the hunting trail are things of the dimming past, 
it has been found to be as acceptable as a breakfast food when moistened 
with thick cream, and perhaps sweetened with sugar. 

Eh-shren-tih is what one might call another of the soup corns, and like 
Neh-hen-tah-wih is always relished by the new-comer who tastes it for 
the first time. Like Tohn-tah, it is made from the white flour corn. The 
corn is gathered when the miUc has set and the grain is just beginning to 
harden. The grains are shelled from the cob with a spoon or mussel 
shell, and are lyed with wood ashes, then spread out on a cloth in the sun 
and dried. This makes most excellent soup when cooked for several 
hours and seasoned the same as Neh-hen-tah-wih; and the cooked corn 
eaten either cold or warmed over in a skillet with more seasoning is far 
more tasty than the ordinary hominy. In fact it has a distinctive flavor 
all its own. In lyeing it, one must be careful to wash it in several waters 
before spreading it out to dry, so that all of the lye and the outside cover- 
ing of the grain may be removed. 



450 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [October 

Teh is the hominy made from the small flinty grained Indian corn. 
The ripened grain is pounded in a wooden mortar very gently, just enough 
to crack the grains and to remove the outside covering or hull. No little 
skill is required to wield the wooden pestle just right so that the grains 
are not pounded too much. It is then winnowed in a basket and is ready 
for use. It also makes an excellent thickened soup, and may be cooked as 
the common hominy. It is good when seasoned with ordinary season- 
ings; or when eaten as porridge with milk or cream. 

There is no soup more delicious than that made by the old Indian 
women from the green bread-corn, seasoned with jerked or dried venison. 
The grains are cut from the cobs when the corn is in the milk stage, and 
the milky mass is slowly poured into the cooking soup which is constantly 
stirred. This was formerly one of the principal dishes of their Green 
Corn feasts, held as a Thanksgiving by nearly all of the tribes, some time 
during the month of August. 

No-mush-shren-dah-tah-rah, or bread made from green corn is indeed 
a toothsome morsel. The white bread-corn or even the ordinary white 
field corn, is taken when in the milk stage, and the tops of the grains are 
cut with a sharp knife. The milky substance is then scraped from the 
ears into a pan or bowl; or sometimes, since the waj's of civilization have 
come to the Redman, the green corn is grated on a coarse grater, and, 
without putting anything whatever in it, the grated corn is poured into 
a deep baking-pan, to the thickness of an inch and a half to two inches or 
more and baked in an oven until the crust is a rich brown. This green- 
corn bread when eaten warm with a little salt and plenty of butter is most 
delicious. When the pone has become cold it is crumbled and dried in 
the sun, making Skeh-anh which is put away for winter use when thor- 
oughly dry. 

Skeh-anh cooks quickly and an ordinary teacup full put into a skillet 
with enough water to cover it will soon fill the skillet. It may be sea- 
soned with butter or cream, or with other seasoning. Sometimes just a 
bit of sugar is put in when cooking; though others prefer seasoning it at 
the table with salt and pepper. It makes an excellent dish that is relished 
by nearly everyone that tastes it; and it has been called the Indian 
breakfast-food. 

I beUeve that the recipes here given for the various uses of Indian 
corn have never before appeared in print, or perhaps even been written; 
yet each and all have been in use in many Indian families for generations. 
Since my earliest childhood, I cannot recall a season when several of these 



1918] PAPER TEXTILES 451 

various ways of preserving Indian corn for food were not used in my 
mother's family. She always made or had made a good supply of Neh- 
hen-tah-wih and Skeh-anh. and also Eh-shren-tih; and her daughters and 
granddaughters have always done the same. There is never a guest who 
eats at our table, for the first time, some one of these Indian dishes, but 
relishes it. and asks what it is, how it is made, and wonders why they have 
never before heard of it. All of the various dishes are wholesome and 
highly nutritious, and should be more widely known. 



PAPER TEXTILES 

LILLIAN B. STORMS 
Textile Chemistry Laboratories, Iowa State College 

Paper textiles are not new, for the Chinese and Japanese, for a cen- 
tury or more, have used paper twine to wrap packages, paper rope for 
bales and have even made a line paper yarn for weaving cloth. In the 
United States, at the time of the Civil War, some mills were established 
to produce paper twines to supplement the cotton shortage, but only one 
factory survived the return to normal conditions. 

Present Uses of Paper. At the present time we are using paper for 
many comparatively new purposes, paper towels, milk bottles, roofing, 
boats, barrels, waterproof covering for walls and ceilings, artificial 
flowers, furniture, and string and twine. Recently a patent was taken 
out for a waterproof, collapsible, oiled-paper umbrella for emergency 
uses, and tests indicate that this will last for months in heavy wind and 
rain. On the continent sausages appear in paper jackets. In Austria 
paper lamp wicks are proving very satisfactory. Paper bagging and 
burlap are successfully used in Europe, even bags for shipping of vege- 
tables. Paper trunks and paper insulators are well known and even 
a paper chimney has been heard of. Waste paper is being used for 
modeling after being pounded and kneaded into a pulp. 

Paper (or cellulose) treated with zinc chloride is used in the making of 
gears, manhole rings, horse shoes, gas pipes, cartwheels, tool handles. 

The use of paper for textile materials has been known for a good many 
years in an experimental' way in Germany, Sweden, and England. In 



452 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [Octobcr 

1892 Keller and Turk of Germany produced the first commercial paper 
twisting machine for transforming a paper strip by twisting into a firm 
cord or yarn. Now paper twisting machines are no longer a novelty; 
many are available, two of them of American make. 

The paper fiber industry has grown rapidly during the last three and 
one-half years, because of the shortage of the usual textile fibers. In the 
different countries attention has been paid to developing certain lines of 
textiles. Japan is using paper for filling in silk ribbons, print cloths, 
upholstery goods (with cotton warp and paper filling), horse hair cloth 
substitute, carriage cloth, etc. Japan is making paper shirts which 
were used last winter on the Russian front. They were found to be 
wanner and cheaper than the old fashioned shirt, the only disadvan- 
tage being that the paper shirt could not be laundered! England is 
using paper yarns very largely in the manufacture of ropes and twines. 
Germany is making many textiles for household use and wearing apparel, 
as well as bags of paper as substitute for hemp and jute. In the United 
States, the paper furniture, floor coverings, twine, and bagging industries 
are already of considerable proportions. 

In France the paper mills are producing paper yarns which are made 
into fabrics satisfactory for wearing purposes. They are soft, flexible, 
water and air tight, antiseptic, and sufficiently durable to make service- 
able garments for the soldiers. Vests and plastrons are woven from the 
twisted paper yarns. They are frequently backed or doubled with cloth 
to increase the durability. They can be brushed, handled, and folded 
into small bulk without injury. These paper garments can be varnished 
to render them waterproof. One mill uses a concentrated solution of 
gelatin and fats mixed with drying oils which will permeate the fabrics 
placed in it. The material is then dried and placed in a solution of 
formaldehyde and eucalyptus oil. It is now an antiseptic, water tight 
and air tight garment, light in weight, inexpensive, folding compactly, and 
very wann. The plastron is worn somewhat like a baseball catcher's 
protector, weighs 2.6 ounces and can be used for about a month. Un- 
doubtedly these paper vests will prove desirable for automobilists, avia- 
tors, and sportsmen. 

For some time there have been appearing in our technical and trade 
journals references to articles in German periodicals on the rapidly in- 
creasing use of paper fabrics. However, the German articles do not reach 
this country except in abstracted form and it is diflicult to obtain much 



1918] PAPER TEXTILES 453 

definite data, either as to the preparation of these textiles or as to 
how satisfactory they prove in use. 

Poor people in Gennany are using paper beds, sheets and pillow- 
cases, and mattresses. The mattresses are made of strong paper tough- 
ened by special process, sewed together, and filled with dead leaves. 
Germany is producing a woven textile of paper and 20 per cent cotton, 
which is used for the sheets and pillowcases and also for hosiery, gloves, 
cravats, suspenders, handkerchiefs, scarfs, towels, children's clothes, 
aprons, purses, tablecloths, napkins, table covers, Jerseys, bandages, and 
horse blankets. Through Amsterdam we hear of the wide use of men's 
suits of practically no material but paper. However, the cost of pro- 
duction of paper fabrics is sufficient so that there is little probability that 
they will be able to compete with cotton in normal times. 

It is e.xpected paper yarns will soon be requisitioned by the Govern- 
ment for army use and even now consumption is greater than that pos- 
sible for the mills to furnish. 

German uniforms from the trenches which were sent to England in 
November, 1917, for analysis showed 8 per cent of animal fibre, part of 
which was identified as mohair (from Turkey) , with the balance made up 
of paper yarn, a good proportion of flax and a smaller percentage of cotton. 
Tliis is considered as military information and full data is not available. 

References have appeared to very good looking white skirts and shirts 
for sale by Gennan merchants which after one trip to the laundry are a 
soggy mass of paper pulp. These appear to be woven fabrics. 

Paper belting has been used for light motors. It is woven of paper 
cord and is of a matting texture but the abrasion of this material is greater 
than with leather and the durability is much less. 

Other uses of paper have resulted from shortage produced by war con- 
ditions. In Germany, in place of cotton as a basis of high explosives, 
they are using chemical pulp made from cellulose (wood, spinning waste 
or rags, etc.) treated with caustic soda or a sulfite. 

At least one German surgeon is using successfully, for dressings and 
absorbents, such products as cellulose wadding, wood wool and felt, 
instead of hnen and cotton. A Pittsburgh surgeon has experimented ex- 
tensively with medicated paper, and has found it to be very effective. 
In a( dition to sohang the gauze shortage, the use of paper for dressings 
reduces the cost more than 25 per cent. 

Mannfaclurliig Processes, Imprcgnaimg Solutions. Raw materials for 
paper yams are wood cellulose (sawdust), old paper, rags, rope, and the 



454 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [October 

spinning waste from cotton, jute, flax, and hemp industries. Germany is 
getting much of her cellulose from pine and c^-prus. Since paper board 
is being made from waste sugar, sugar cane, and corn stalks, probably 
other waste products will come into use. It is interesting to see the num- 
ber of materials suggested in the current literature as sources of cel- 
lulose, such as many tropical plants, while a corporation has recently 
been organized in Texas for making paper from corn stalks. Many 
patents are being taken out for sources of cellulose. 

The paper stock is dehvered in large rolls 2 to 5 feet long which may 
weigh as much as 700 pounds to the roll. These are cut into strips | 
inch to 4 or 5 inches in width, wound into solid discs of the same thickness 
as the large roll. These smaller rolls are then stored in a humidifying 
room for three or four days. 

Different grades of paper are employed, two American mills using 
tissue paper entirely and another a very cheap grade which until recently 
it was not thought could be twisted. 

The next process is that of twisting, which must be done very carefully. 
Tissue or thin paper can be twisted either dry or moist but heavy paper 
must be moist, to give greater pliability. There are a good many prob- 
lems in this part of the process; for instance, the tension must be watched 
with a microscope and too much moisture will impair the strength of the 
yarn. After being twisted the paper strip has increased breaking 
strength ; those tested by Heinke gave a tensile strength five or six times 
that of the original paper strip. 

A good many modifications are used in the twisting process. Often 
paper is twisted over jute and cotton, covering up loosely spun threads 
and preventing raveling. Metal wire used in the manufacture of the 
fibre furniture is covered in the same way. 

There are a number of machines in Germany for covering thread and 
wire by spinning paper yarn over some such foundation. Generally 
the same machines are used for the weaving of yarn into fabric for paper 
fabrics as for cloth fabrics. 

In the moistening before twisting, water sprays arc used, or the 
strips may be passed through the froth of a solution containing a lathering 
agent, such as saponin in admixture with soap. 

A high tensile strength is difficult to attain in these fabrics on account 
of the short paper fibre, and after treatment is necessary, such as impreg- 
nation to increase strength and resistance to moisture. Generally the 
dressing contains starch, wax and oil, may contain glue and paraffin, or 



1918] PAPER TEXTILES 455 

rosin, or waterglass, and now one manufacturer is using a viscose coat- 
ing. The viscose adds strength but the waterproofing quahty is ques- 
tionable. Other ingredients used are aluminium acetate, gelatin mixed 
with aluminium acetate, gelatin and formaldehyde, tannin solution, 
tannin and gelatin. Some of these are more or less satisfactory. One 
solution which is in use and has proved particularly satisfactory for finer 
yarns is the following: first a bath of glue, tannin, and sodium silicate 
at 50°C., passage, without drj-ing, through a second bath of basic alumin- 
ium fonnate, and drying. The result from this treatment is a 10 per 
cent increase in strength in the dry state and an increase of 30 per cent 
in the wet state. 

The water proofing solutions have not yet been entirely satisfactorily 
worked out. Those used on heavier fabrics such as the rugs, which can 
be washed without friction, seem to be gi\'ing good service but there is 
still much to be done Ln this fine of research. 

Fire proofing solutions are used on paper, some containing as their 
chief ingredient sodium aluminium carbonate. A starch mixture for 
fireproofing paper yarns and textiles uses acetyl arabin, corn starch, borax, 
aluminium sulfite, sodium silicate, ammonium acid carbonate, and white 
wax. 

The dyeing of paper textiles is done in the same way and with the same 
dyes as in dyeing of cotton except that material of paper when in the wet 
condition must be handled much more carefully. 

The testing of paper fabrics does not seem to have received much atten- 
tion in this country. A magazine published in Austria describes methods 
of testing in use in one laboratory as being much the same as for cloth 
fabrics. The yarn tests are for twist, yarn number, stretch and breaking 
strength of yarns; the fabric tests, for thread count of warp and weft, 
yam number, moisture, weight per yard, stretch and breaking strength in 
warp and weft directions in (1) natural condition, (2) bone dry, and (3) 
after twenty- four hours in water. No mention was made of microscopical 
examination to determine the kind of fibre and condition of same. 

An interesting item in the testing of paper fabrics is the amount of 
moisture held by them. Many contain about 38 per cent when they 
leave the factory. However, with none of these tests have standards 
been estabhshed as yet. 

The American Paper Fibre Rug. The American paper rug, or so-called 
fibre rug, is already in extensive use. Carpets are going up in price. They 
are expensive at best and when cheapened durability and quahty are 



456 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [October 

sacrificed. The cheapness of the paper fibre rugs is due to the simplicity 
of the manufacturing processes and because they are made from cheap and 
easily available material. 

There are three distinct varieties, cotton warp with paper filling threads, 
cotton or hemp warp with paper and wool filling and the rugs composed 
entirely of paper yarns. These are woven on a carpet loom, run through 
a size box containing the mixture for stiffening and setting colors, run 
over several steam calenders to dry and flatten and the finished rug is 
ready for the market. 

This type of floor covering cleans easily, is sanitary, odorless, and will 
wear well. In 1916 there were twenty-five factories in the United States 
making fibre rugs, one with a daily output of twenty-five tons. 

The Future of Paper Textiles. There are possible chances for substi- 
tution of paper for hemp and cotton because of particular adaptability 
in certain instances, such as the use of paper twines instead of hemp for 
the tying of wool, for paper will dissolve and be thrown out in the manu- 
facturing processes whereas hemp will carry through and contaminate 
the product. Something of the same is true in the meat and tobacco 
packing industries. But paper textiles are bulky. The hard twisted 
paper yarns can compete with vegetable fibers in strength but they are 
about twice as large. When the materials are available the American 
public can buy linen towels, silk shirts, cotton sheets and pillowcases. 
There seems to be no reason for substitution of paper where cotton is as 
available as in this country in normal times, but rugs, furniture, and to a 
limited extent cords and binding twines have won a place which will last 
after the unusual market conditions incident to the war have passed. 

BIBLIOGRAPHY 

Review of Paper Textile Industry. Pulp atid Paper Mag. of Can., vol. -xiv, p. 103. 

Testing of Paper Yams and Fabrics. Client. Abstracts, vol. xi, p. 1308. 

Paper Thread and Cloth. Heinke, Met. b" Chem. Engr., vol. xiv, p. 284. 

Paper Yams in 1916. Massot, Jr. Soe. Chem. Indus., vol. 36, p. 543. 

Paper Yam Textiles and Dyeing and Impregnating Them. Kertesz. Color Trade Jr., vol. ii, 

p. 38. 
New Uses of Pulp and Paper. Pulp and Paper Mag. of Can., vol. xv, p. 438. 
The American Paper Fibre Rug. Bonnaffon, Pulp and Paper Mag. of Can., vol. xv, p. 847. 
Paper Clothes of Soldiers. Textile Colorisl, January, 191 7, p. 19. 



1918] COLLEGE students' ACCOUNTS 457 

COLLEGE STUDENTS' ACCOUNTS 

SARA MACLEOD 

Pratt Institute, Brooklyn, Ndo York 

In the Household Science and Arts work at Pratt Institute we re- 
quire every junior normal and every institutional household science 
student to take a course in household administration. Part of the 
work of this course is the keeping of a personal expense account. For 
this purpose we used for several years, with more or less satisfaction, a 
classified expense account book. Any form of accounting which is 
properly done is necessarily good training for any student — but, 
nevertheless, we have decided that some other form of account keeping 
would be more advisable. In the one book on the market that seemed 
best suited to our use there is not enough room for itemizing, although 
the classification is good. 

For this reason our students are now keeping their accounts on 
cards with a definite classification and many headings of which they 
may use for their accounts as many as they see fit. We believe 
that this form of account keeping will be of very definite use not 
only in helping a girl to classify her accounts but also in giving her 
training in classification in general. Anything which will tend to make 
a student analyze her work, no matter what the subject, must have a 
very great value. The difiiculty with so many students is that they 
cannot separate the big things from the little, the important from the 
less important, and subordinate the lesser as they should. Given a 
general idea of classification of accounts, they will have to make up 
their minds where the items belong and it will be possible for the in- 
structor to see readily whether they show judgment in their classifying 
and itemizing. 

The figures in table I were compiled and averaged from expense 
account books kept during 1913-1916. From these accounts it is evi- 
dent that the expenses of the students remained practically stationary; 
for the differences in amounts are explained by the facts that the 1913- 
1914 account is for twelve months, the 1915-1916 for nine months. 
The differences are chiefly under the headings clothing, carfare, and 
recreation: the increase in clothing due to the amount spent during the 
summer in preparation for returning to school in the fall, that in car- 
fares largely to the fare to school in the fall, and that in recreation to 
simimer vacations. 



458 



THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS 



[October 



TABLE 1 
Comparative expenditures of boarding students for two periods. 





SEPTEMBER 1915 TO 

JCNE, 1916 (NINE 

MONTHS) 


SEPTEMBER, 1913 TO 
SEPTEMBER, 1914 
(IWEHI; MONTHS) 


Rent 


S101.07 

121.43 

70.68 

7.62 

23.27 

11.25 

4.40 

153.11 

11.17 

18.99 

4.89 


$105.21 


Food 


120.96 


Clothing 


115.42 




8.11 




49.65 


Health 


11.78 




14.17 




130.22 




9.11 




20.49 




6.08 






Totals 


$527.88 


$606.22 







TABLE 2 
Average expenditures of students doing cooperative housekeeping. 



Rent 

Food 

Clothing 

Laundry 

Car fare 

Health 

Stamps and stationery' . . 

Recreation 

Education 

Gifts, church, and charity 
Incidentals 

Totals 



S454.71 



1913-1914 (NINE 
MONTHS) 


1915-1916 (NINE 

MONTHS) 


§60.61 


§90.00 


66.34 


90.11 


70.90 


74 91 


10.01 


.79 


18.68 


30 36 


22.74 


.40 


15.52 


4.65 


17.74 


3.43 


133.11 


142.72 


19.17 


15.31 


20.24 


.15 



$452.83 



The cost of education for 1915-1916 is $153.11, and for 1913-1914 it 
is $130.22, but the figures for 1915-1916 include the expense accounts 
of the household arts students who have to buy materials for dress- 
making, design, and handwork. This might be balanced by a de- 
creased yearly cost of clothing. In keeping our accounts the question 
arose whether materials for classwork in dressmaking should be classi- 
fied under clothes or education. It has seemed at times better to 
classify them under education, for a student must purchase these things 



COLLEGE STUDENTS ACCOUNTS 



459 



in order to do her work and she must plan for that expenditure even if 
the articles of clothing which she makes would not ordinarily constitute 
part of her wardrobe. 

Few of our students do cooperative housekeeping, but from the fig- 
ures in table 2 it is obvious that it is an extremely economical mode of 
living. The low cost for laundry in all cases is due mainly to the fact 
that the majority of our students send their laundry home. 

For the card system we have made out the following classification, 
which the indi\'idual student may modify for her particular needs. 

CLASSIFICATION OF HOUSEHOLD ACCOUNTS 



Allowances (children) 
Care of house 

Outside 

Inside 

Furnishings (permanent) 

Furnishings (not permanent) 

Flowers 
Clothing and accessories 

Coats and wraps 

Gowns 

Hats 

Jewelry 

Repair 

Shoes 

Underwear 
Education 
Entertainment 
Ex-press, freight 
Food 

Bread 

Dairy products 

Dry groceries 

Fruit 

Ice 

Meat 

Vegetables 

Outside home 

Garbage disposal 



Fuel 

Gifts (personal) 

Gifts (church — charity) 

Health 

Interest on debts 

Laundry 

Light 

Postage 

Professional (or business) 

obligations 
Reading 
Recreation 
Rent 
Savings 
Service 
Stationery 
Taxes 

Teleplione, telegram 
Toilet 
Transportation 

Carfare 

Other 



Income 

Simunary 

Balance 



460 



THE JOtJRNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS 



[Octobe 



CLASSIFICATION OF STUDENT S EXPENDITURES 



Church and Charity 




Handwork 


Clothing 




Design 


Dressmaking class 


supplies 


Houseplanning 


Accessories 




Health 


Blouses 




Interest 


Coats 




Laundry 


Dresses 




Reading 


Hats 




Recreation 


Jewelry 




Rent 


Shoes 




Carfare 


Underwear 




Savings and insurance 


Education 




Stamps and stationery 


Tuition 




Telephone 


Books 




Toilet 


Stationery 




Transportation 


Entertainment 




Car, boat, railroad 


Food 






Board 




Income 


Food other than n 


;gular board 


Summary 


Gifts 




Balance 



HOW COOPERATION IS BEING APPLIED IN A FAR WESTERN 
UNIVERSITY 

JESSIE B. ROTHGEB 

Department oj Home Economics, University of Washington 

In the Pacific Coast States the principle of cooperation, in existence in 
this country for years, has been put into successful practice. This is brought 
out very clearly in a study of the cooperative marketing and canning in- 
dustries among the fruit growers and farmers. In 1912 the Washington 
State Horticultural Association organized the fruit growers of Oregon, 
Idaho, Montana, and Washington into districts for the inspection, grad- 
ing and packing of their products. It improved marketing conditions, 
and enabled the growers to secure a fair price, where previously marketing 
of the crop had been speculation. 



[1918] COOPERATIOX IN A F.'VR WESTERN UNIVERSITY 461 

The CaUfornia Fruit Growers Association Society (cooperative) has 
4000 c^rowers. The society handles 60 per cent of the citrus output, and 
also a'large per cent of the other fruits gro^oi in the State of Cahforma. 
The Association among other accomplishments has obtained a reduc- 
tion of freight rates to the East, and an increase in the tariff onkmons. 
They have expended hfty thousand dollars in national advertismg. _ 

The principle of cooperation is obser^'ed in our western umversities. 
At the University of Washington the sororities and fraternities have been 
seriously considering methods of cooperative bu>-ing, storing and dis- 
tribution of food supplies. Plans and methods have been drafted, and 
undoubtedly would be in practice at the present time, were it not for the 
unsettled conditions of our markets due to the war. 

The spirit of cooperation is being apphed in our University cafeteria. 
This institution is not run for profit, but meals are served at cost to the 
students and the faculty members. The cafeteria feeds an average of 
four hundred students and faculty members each day. 

"Let Us Help You Choose Your Food" was the title of a folder recently 
pubUshed for the benefit of our patrons. Cafeteria managers realize that 
people who eat in public places find it hard to select the proper food. The 
folder suggested combinations of food which helped the students to 
select weU balanced meals. During the year 1916-1917 the student 
patron spent an average of fourteen cents for breakfast, mneteen cents 
for lunch, and twenty-three cents for dinner. The next year the average 
increased onlv about three cents per person for each meal 

At the cafeteria we have not only obser^■ed the iifty-fifty wheat regu- 
lation but have eliminated wheat entirely, which meant the doing away 
with yeast breads, leaving in their place hot breads, cakes, and pastries. 
This however, was not undertaken until we had placed the matter before 
our patrons in a voting contest. The returns showed 360 votes in favor 
of the wheatless diet and two against it; 147 showed no mterest. _ 

The spirit of cooperation exists all through the University activities. 
Each spring a day is set aside as "Campus Day," and professors, as 
well as students, don working clothes and labor together improving and 
building up the campus. Last spring seventeen hundred took part, and 
the problem of feeding this crowd feU to the giris who commandeered 
the cafeteria, and served 3000 sandwiches, 560 pounds of potato salad, 
68 gallons of beans, and 67 gallons of coffee. 



462 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [October 

THE INTERNATIONAL SCIENTIFIC COMMITTEE 

At the session of the Inter-Allied Conference held in Paris in Novem- 
ber, 1917, an International Scientific Committee was appointed, to 
consider the food problems of the AlHes and make recommendations to 
the different alHed governments. The committee consists of two 
members from France, Italy, the United Kingdom, and the United 
States, respectively, and one from Belgium. 

The representatives of the United States are Professor Graham Lusk 
and Professor Chittenden, and among the others are names almost as 
well known to food e.xperts in this country. Professor Starling who 
represented England, and Professor Gley, one of the representatives of 
France, are honorary members of the American Home Economics 
Association. 

The committee met in Paris on March 25, and in Rome on April 
29. The part of their work in which Home Economics is especially 
interested is their agreement as to the minimum food requirements of 
the average man. These correspond fairly well with the modification 
of the Atwater Ration adopted by the United States Department of 
Agriculture. A man of average weight, doing average work during 
eight hours a day, requires food that as purchased will yield an energy 
value of 3300 calories daily. Professor Lusk's figures as to the pro- 
portion of this amount to be assigned to women and children of different 
ages were accepted. While 3300 calories was fixed upon as the desira- 
ble amount it was concluded that when it was impossible to supply 
as much, 10% less might be used for some time without injury to health. 
The "desirable minimum" ration of fat is given as 75 grams, about 
2f ounces, for an average man per day, an amount somewhat higher 
than that suggested by the U. S. Food Administration. The opinion 
was expressed that there is no absolute physiological need for meat, 
and that therefore it is not desirable to fix a minimum meat ration. 

The commission believes that prices should be so fixed that the pro- 
duction of beef and pork and poultry at the expense of food available 
for man should be discouraged, and that this may be best done by 
fixing such a price for animal products as will make it unprofitable for 
the producer to feed them on cereals. 

A full report of the conclusions of the Committee is given in the 
National Food Journal, June, 1918. 



FOR THE HOMEMAKER 

THE HOSTESS HOUSE CAFETERIA 

MARION E. HOPKINS 
Cafeteria Specialist, War Work Council, National Board, Y. W. C. A. 

The table is the social center of most homes; the cafeterias in the 
hostess houjses of the Y. W. C. A. are important social centers at the 
soldier camps. 

The hostess houses are for the soldiers and their visiting families and 
friends. Those abroad are used by the women serving with the Amer- 
ican Army: signal service women, telephonists, telegraphers, and cler- 
ical assistants. They are built in order that men and women may 
have a decent place to meet for several hours, make plans for the future, 
and say good-bye. Three sizes or varieties are built; small ones for the 
aviation camps, big ones for the embarkation camps, and houses re- 
modeled from those already on the lands where the camps are located. 
If the house does not prove large enough to accommodate the visitors who 
have come to camps in numbers as great as 12,000 in one day, a new 
house is erected. Some of the camps now have three houses. Thirteen 
are for colored troops. There are ninety-one in all, including those 
abroad, and calls for more are coming from the War Department every 
day. 

The cafeteria is no small part of the hostess house for it feeds, as 
a rule, between one thousand to two thousand soldiers and visitors on 
Sundays, and varying numbers on other days. The boys who have no 
visitors hke to come to the hostess house and eat, not only because the 
food is "so good," but because they can be "where there are folks Hke 
home folks," a need greatly felt by the homesick soldier boy away from 
family Hfe for the first time. 

The woman who is hostess of the cafeteria needs to be a resourceful 
person. Hers is not the simple problem of manager of a school lunch 
room, or a cafeteria for a business firm where stated hours can be ad- 
hered to rigidly and where she can calculate ahead for a week or more 
to a person how many guests to expect each day. She must be a level 

463 



464 THE joxTRNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [October 

headed woman who can meet any emergency, from doing big work in 
little space to meeting an unexpected embargo of visitors at camp 
which will mean that no guests will come for some days. 

One cafeteria manager described a typical day as follows: "It was 
but an ordinary day, not a special day in any sense. It had begun 
with breakfast served to the several who depended upon the hostess 
house cafeteria for good meals. The first call for food was from a 
foreigner, who was just out of the hospital and unable to report for 
duty, and who had come to enjoy the fire. 

"At the same time a young girl was being made welcome. She had 
come in that morning on an early train, and had found that her fiance 
was in the hospital, making it necessary for some one else to see that 
she was cared for. 

"A newly arrived private, suffering from the tj^phoid fever serum 
came in for toast, egg, and coffee, and sat before the fire for a while 
before and after his meal. 

"Noon lunch was served to 1200 visitors. Supper was served in 
time for those who desired to get away on the six-thirty train." 

What people usually call emergencies belong to the regular work of 
the day of the cafeteria hostess. The houses abroad have these, as 
well as those at home. The cafeteria hostess at Paris was called out of 
bed by an excited maid early one morning with the message that a ship 
load of Red Cross workers had arrived and needed breakfast. Of 
course they got their breakfast. 

One cafeteria was called upon suddenly to make four thousand sand- 
wiches to feed a visiting delegation. Some of the demands are less 
strenuous. One morning a Tommy entered the office of the Paris 
hotel for American women war workers about 8.30 a.m., clicked his 
heels together and holding out a httle tinpail, asked in a very cockney 
Enghsh, "Can you give me any tea 'ere?" What he did with it, no 
one knew, but he must have made a funny picture walking along the 
streets of Paris with his Httle tin-pail of steaming hot tea. French men, 
in spite of there being no wine or beer, often come to the hostess house 
cafeteria to get a "good square meal." 

Both in this country and abroad visitors and soldiers come who 
have never eaten at a cafeteria and do the funny things that the unin- 
itiated so often do. One hostess had carefully selected her own dinner 
from the counter and set her tray down when an officer stepped up 



1918] THE HOSTESS HOUSE CAFETERL\ 465 

picked up the tray, received the check and ate the dinner, probably 
thinking the hostesses were there to select the meals for them. 

The hostess houses have large verandas where the families of the 
soldier can eat the basket lunch brought from home, supplemented, if 
desired, with coffee and other things from the cafeteria. Thus tlie boy 
may share the birthday cake brought from home, or his favorite fried 
chicken. 

The meals at the cafeteria vary somewhat, but usually consist of a 
hot meat, potatoes and some vegetables, salads, and desserts. The 
following is a sample menu: 

Roast lamb, .20; potato cakes, .10; creamed carrots and peas, .10; 
macaroni and cheese, .15; 4 or 5 salads, each, .10; ham sandwiches, .10; 
American and cream cheese sandwiches, .15; cake (3 kinds), .10; pie, 
.10; cantaloupe or watennelon, .10; peaches — 3 for .10; tea, coffee, or 
milk, .05; soft drink, .05; ice cream .10. 

The cafeteria is regulated by the sanitary rules for the army kitchens. 
It is the duty of the cafeteria hostess to see that they are followed. 
Immaculate cleanliness must be maintained. The help varies from all 
colored men in some camps, or all women in others to men and women 
or soldier's wives and volunteer workers. The larger cafeterias employ 
as many as thirty-eight persons on busy days. All this help usually has 
to be trained by the cafeteria hostess. In training ignorant workers 
or unskilled volunteers, the hostess is doing more than feeding soldiers 
and their friends. She is teaching the preparation of food, sanitation, 
and personal cleanliness to many who are working with her. Volun- 
teer helpers come from near-by towns, often by turns, one town to the 
east of the camp sending seven volunteers on Monday, and another to 
the south-west fifteen on Tuesday. On Wednesday the workers from 
the town may be back with a few new recruits to fill the places of two 
or three who are unable to return, making it necessary for the hostess 
to train new workers every day. Her success depends to a consider- 
able extent upon her ability to secure and train help which is often very 
difficult to find. To obtain food is another big problem, as the camps 
are often located a considerable distance from railroad centers. For 
example, one camp is twenty miles from one city and forty miles from 
another, and 100 gallons of ice cream are needed at the cafeteria. The 
hostess could not get it in .sufficient quantities from the nearer city, so 
she had to arrange to get it from the other. The Y. M. C. A. owns trucks 
to dehver supplies to the hostess houses and this helps to some extent. 



466 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [October 

The women who have charge of these cafeterias are as a rule home 
economics trained people. Needless to say, it is difficult to secure 
women with the necessary qualifications of resourcefulness, level headed- 
ness, tact, business ability, and knowledge of their work, but the work 
goes on steadily in Govermiient camps and is increasing every week. 



CONSERVATION OF TIN 

There are only about 120,000 tons of tin produced in the world each 
year. We always connect tin with Cornwall where mines have existed 
since the time of the Phoenicians, but these are no longer very im- 
portant. Most of our tin comes from Southeastern Asia, the Dutch 
East Indies, and the Strait settlements, and is controlled by the Eng- 
lish or the Dutch. Practically no tin is produced in this country. 
About 100 tons came from Alaska last year. In California a mine that 
has been operated for 30 years has produced altogether only 150 tons. 

There seems no Vf^y of increasing to any extent the amount of tin 
available, and its use has increased greatly. Before the war the United 
States used each year 4500 tons. Now we need 90,000 tons. England 
needs more as well. Probably Germany is not getting any tin today. 

Tin finds its especial use because of its durabihty, the fact that it 
melts at a low temperature, that it is not easily affected by acids, and 
that it can be easily worked. It is used in the manufacture of tin plate, 
sheets of steel coated with a very thin layer of tin, 1| pounds of tin 
being used for every 100 pounds of plate. This tin plate is used for 
tin cans, for roofing, for fire doors, for household utensils, and in many 
other ways. The second use of tin is in the manufacture of alloys for 
bearing metals and solder. There are many other uses that seem 
small in themselves but that amount to a good deal in the aggregate. 
Tin foil for wrapping cheese, chewing gum, candy, or tobacco uses a 
considerable amount of pure tin, and so does the manufacture of tubes 
for tooth paste, library paste, and similar articles. 

Tin enters into the manufacture of white enamel for bath tubs and 
cooking utensils. It is used, too, to make silk glossy and in other ways 
in its manufacture. 



1918] CONSERVATION OF TIN 467 

The increased demand is largely for tin cans for preserving foods, and 
for the solder and bearing metals required for engine and motor and 
auto. 

In 1914 the price of tin was 30 cents a pound. This summer it aver- 
aged 90 cents and had risen as high as $1.30. The real difficulty though 
is not so much the price as the lack of tin. The manufacturer is doing 
his best to save it in small as well as large ways. In making the col- 
sapsible tin tube, for example, an appreciable amount is saved by mak- 
ing the neck and the cap smaller and having one less fold at the bottom. 
The tubes are not quite as good but no one who knows the reason for 
the change will complain of them. Much of the tin foil used for wrap- 
ping has been for ornament only, as in the case of candies. It is now 
used only when necessary, and other kinds of foil will be substituted 
when the article to be wrapped is not food. Thirty per cent less tin 
may be used in silk manufacture by eliminating some of the colors 
requiring it and by making the silk less glossy. 

Tea and coffee and other articles of food will be sold in non-metal 
containers except when the metal is essential to the preservation of the 
food. Containers are to be of few sizes. Evaporated milk, for ex- 
ample, will be marketed in only 14 and 15 ounce cans instead of in 
four sizes as formerly. Cocoa and chocolate will be put up in pack- 
ages not smaller than half a pound, or in packages of 1, 5, 10, 25, 50, 
or 100 pounds, and in general all odd and small sizes of containers will 
be eliminated. 

Tin is to be salvaged as far as possible. 

Everyone is asked to save tooth paste tubes, tin foil, and any other 
pure tin material that comes into their possession, and donate it to the 
nearest Red Cross center. Scrap tin from the manufacture of tin cans, 
that used to be thrown away, is now collected and sent to the detin- 
nery plants, and the steel sent to the steel mills. 

Many have asked why old tin cans are not collected. The difficulty 
in their re-use is mainly one of transportation. The cans would need 
to be cleaned, crushed to save space, detinned, and the solder taken 
out, because there must be no trace of lead in the material sent to the 
steel miUs, and so far no practical method has been devised. 

Meanwhile the using over again of any cans in the household will help 
iust so much. 



468 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [October 

FIVE FILTHY FINGERS 

Did you ever make a diary of your fingers? Did you ever set down 
in cold black and white the things your fingers touch every day, and 
did you ever consider the number of times daily that your unwashed 
fingers seek your mouth? 

When surgeons discovered that it was their own infected fingers 
which carried germs into wounds they set about trying to discover a 
means whereby their hands could be rendered surgically clean, i.e., free 
from germs. The whole realm of chemistry was ransacked for agents 
which would disinfect hands, and the scrubbings and immersions to 
which they subjected their hands are even yet a tender memory to the 
surgeons of that period. But all of these efforts proved useless, and at 
last in despair surgeons took to wearing rubber gloves which could be 
boiled, thus bringing to each patient, as it were, a fresh pair of sterile 
hands. In other words, try as you will you cannot by any known 
method make your hands absolutely clean. 

The great agent in the spread of those diseases whose causative organ- 
ism is present in the secretions of the mouth and nose is the human 
hand; and if saUva was bright green we would be amazed at the color 
of our fingers. As a matter of fact, most of us carry our fingers to our 
mouth or nose many times daily, there to implant the germs of disease 
which other careless people have spread about; there to collect a fresh 
cargo of infectious material to scatter for somebody else. 

It is true that most germs of disease die quickly once they leave the 
human body, but what does the death of a few billion germs matter 
so long as the supply is copious and never-ending. 

What an enormous number of infected things we touch during the 
day, and how infrequent and cursory are the hand washings we perform. 

The answer is to keep your fingers out of your mouth and nose. 
Thus we Hmit the spread of disease from these orifices at least; thus we 
eliminate the danger of contracting disease from some one else who was 
not quite so careful. — Mass. Public Health Bulletin, June 1918. 

When we add to what has beeti said above the serious possibilities of filth 
and infection from hands unwashed, or only partly washed, after being soiled 
in the toilet, the importance of clean hands is evident. — Editor. 



1918] MIXED FLOUR 469 

A GAS MASQUE 

Here is a suggestion from the Food Administration that might apply 
to an impromptu day at a woman's dub, or to a school play as well as 
to the more elaborate harvest festival, or pageant. 

Why not arrange a gay masque done in the Elizabethan style — admis- 
sion nut shells or fruit pits? Call it "A Gas Masque" and let the town 
crier advertise it so loudly that every fruit pit and nut shell will be 
turned in. For such a masque fruits and nuts and the season give the 
setting. A quarrel between the Perishables ("Peaches," "Nutty 
Nuts," etc.) and the Staples (Wheat — Meat — Fat — Sugar) suggest 
the argument. Perishables, claiming unjust discriminations at the 
hands of War Industries, and Shipping Boards, and the Food and Fuel 
Administrations, lay their case before Jupiter. He is impressed with 
the beauty of the Fruits and the wit of the Nuts, but knows only too 
well that the Sons of Mars fight on meat and bread. In the midst 
of the Olympian clamor Mercury arrives with an imperative call for 
nut-shells and pits, and the Fruits and Nuts are vindicated as War- 
Essentials. 

For the arrangement of masques and harvest festivals consult Master 
William Shakespear's "Tempest" and "As You Like It." This is only 
a suggestion to start your wits working. 



MIXED FLOUR 

Many housekeepers will be glad when the new mixed flours come 
generally on the market. They have been delayed by the making of 
new labels and by some difiiculties in regard to the mixed flour law. 
Soon, however, they will be on sale in even greater quantities than 
wheat flour. There will be Httle difficulty in substituting them for the 
wheat flour that we used "before the war." The mixture with corn 
flour, for example, will differ very little from pastry flour, or soft wheat 
flour, in its use. The Victory flours will be: 

Mixed Wheat and Barley Flour. Mixed in proportion of four pounds 
of wheat flour to one pound of barley flour. 



470 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [October 

Mixed Wheat and Corn Flour. Mixed in proportion of four pounds 
of wheat flour to one pound of corn fiour. 

Mixed Wheat, Barley and Corn Flour. Mixed in proportion of eight 
pounds of wheat flour to one pound barley and one pound of corn flour. 

Mixed Wheat and Rye Flour. MLxed in proportion of three pounds 
of wheat flour and not less than two pounds of rye flour. 

Whole Wheat, Entire Wheat or Graham Flour or Meal which con- 
tain at least 95 per cent of the wheat berry will also be classed as Vic- 
tory Flours. 

If the housewife desires to buy straight wheat flour instead of any 
of these mixed flours, she must buy at the same time one pound of wheat 
substitutes for every four pounds of wheat flour that she buys. Usually 
the wheat substitutes offered her will be corn flour, corn meal, and bar- 
ley flour. In some locahties, however, where other substitutes are 
plentiful the housewife may extend her choice to include feterita flour 
and meals, rice flour, oat flour, kafSr flour, milo flour, peanut flour, bean 
flour, potato flour, sweet potato flour, buckwheat flour. If she buys 
these she must buy them in the same ratio, that is, one pound of 
substitute flour to four pounds of wheat flour. Rye will be sold in the 
proportion of 2 pounds of rye to 3 pounds of wheat flour. 

The use of corn bread and other quick breads that consist of not 
more than 50 per cent wheat is urged, to effect a further saving of 
wheat than would be possible if the eighty-twenty yeast bread were 
rehed on for every meal. Cookies, cakes, and pastry may be made 
from the new eighty-twenty blended flour. This may also be used to 
thicken sauces, soups, and gravies. 

It is to be remembered that we are to use all bread-stuffs with the 
greatest care, for though the crop of wheat is large some other crops are 
not so plentiful, and we must build up reserves against such disaster 
as nearly overtook us last faU. 

The victory bread that we are using will be so far as possible the same 
as that used by the 120,000,000 of the Allies. We want to share in 
their conservation and use this no more freely than can they. 



1918] WILD CRABAPPLE FOR JELLY MAKING 47l 

THE WILD CRABAPPLE FOR JELLY MAKING 

KATHARINE MARTINDALE 

Tills article was received too late to be of service this fall but it may help 
in making plans for next year. Many have been accustomed to breaking 
off freely in the spring the branches of blossoms of the wild crabapple, and 
this should not be done if the fruit can all be used. — Editor. 

This crabapple with the beautiful salmon pink blossoms and the 
small, green, sweet-smelling fruit abounds in certain parts of the mid- 
dle western woods — in Wisconsin, Illinois, and Indiana, particularly. 
Upon a rather extended inquiry I find that relatively few housekeepers 
know the value of this fruit, and great quantities go to waste each year. 

The apples are considered to be better if allowed to mellow slightly 
by lying on the ground for a few days at least, after falling. Because of 
a sticky substance coating them it is necessary to clean them carefully 
using a brush or cloth if desired. In other respects the jelly making 
process is similar to that used with any other good Jelly apple. After 
cutting them in small pieces, since they are quite hard, cover well with 
water. Two or three extractions can be made, since there is sufficient 
pectin and acid present for this. It is desirable to combine the second 
and third extractions in making the jelly. Sugar in the proportion of 
three-fourths of a cup to one of the juice should be used. 

The jelly is a clear red amber and has a slight characteristic acid taste 
which is especially delicious with meats and with vegetables. 



FAT AND CALORIES 

Changing our food customs is difficult because it means also changing 
our cooking customs. But many dishes can be made with less fat than 
we are accustomed to put in or with different kinds from those we have 
hitherto preferred. Often the fat from frying is left in the pan to be 
washed out and thrown away. If every cook could say to herself, 
"Every two drops of fat make a calorie and every calorie counts in 
the world today," it might seem more worth while to hold the pan a 
minute and drain out the fat for further use. A thousand calories mean 
a day's life to a baby. — Every Day Foods in War Time, by Mary Swartz 
Rose. 



472 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [October 

TABLE OF MEASURES 
If a recipe calls for 1 pound (2 cups) of sugar and you use 
This measure of sugar 

Caps 
2 

1| 

1 

I 


The resulting product contains the equivalent of one pound of sugar. 
In substituting by measure, 1 cup of sugar is replaced approximately 
by f cup of the other sweeteners on the basis of total solids (i.e., the 
sugar and similar substances that are dissolved in the liquid. If the 
liquid sweetener is glucose or corn syrup, the product will be less sweet 
than if sugar is used.) 

If these substitutions are used in recipes where the amount of liquid 
used is an important factor, decrease the liquid | cup for every pound, 
or J cup for every cup of liquid sweetener used. 

— U. S. Food Ad7ninistratmn. 



and this measure of 


liqui 


id 


Y 


ou are 


using other sweeten- 


sweetener 
Cups 









ers to the extent of 
Per cent 



2 
4 

If 










25 
llX) 



It takes 96 level teaspoons, or 48 rounded teaspoons, or 32 heaping 
teaspoons of sugar to make one pound. There are 96 "half lumps" of 
sugar in a pound, and 48 cubes of sugar. 

The total daily allowance for each person is 6 level teaspoons, or 3 
rounded teaspoons, or 2 heaping teaspoons, or 6 half lumps, or 3 cubes. 
Six level teaspoons is 2 tablespoons. 

An ordinary serving of cake, made with a pre-war recipe, might easily 
contain 1 tablespoon of sugar — half the day's allowance. Do we always 
remember this? 



EDITORIAL 

The Need for Nurses. A statement has lately been made in the 
press that "the nursing needs of the Army have already been met, and 
that 27,000 nurses have been enrolled by the Red Cross in response to 
the Surgeon General's request for 25,000 graduate nurses by January 1, 
1919." The Surgeon General's office reports that this statement has 
caused an immediate falling oflf in the number of inquiries and enroll- 
ments and that serious curtailment of the nursing service may result. 

The Red Cross has an enrollment of more than 27,000, but not all 
are available for active service. About 16,000 trained nurses are now 
on the rolls of the Army Nurse Corps, and 9,000 more are needed by 
January. July should see 50,000 available, if the sick and wounded 
soldiers are to be cared for. Nurses should continue to enroll, and 
young women should enter the Army School of Nursing. This is an 
opportunity for home economics graduates, whose training should 
especially qualify them for such work. 

The Barrel on the Comer. The majority of people in this country 
are troubled not by the extent of the demands made upon them ' to win 
the war," but by the fact that they can do so little. They welcome any 
suggestion of ways in which they can be of the slightest service. 

The request to save the dried stones of peaches, plums, prunes, olives, 
dates, and cherries, and the shells of Brazil and hickory nuts, walnuts 
and butternuts, and turn them in to the Red Cross to make charcoal 
for army gas masks, fell upon willing ears. Barrels as depositories 
appeared in convenient places. PubHc and private institutions, includ- 
ing hospitals, were asked to join in the campaign. The old-fashioned 
nutting party was revived. Boy Scouts and Camp Fire Girls began to 
make collections. In one city a commission merchant received a car- 
load of unsalable peaches. Instead of dumping them, he had his em- 
ployees remove the stones, and turned in 13 bushels to the Red Cross. 

Even "before the war," the use of by-products formed an important 
element in the profits of manufacturers. Now we are all receiving the 
best training we have ever had in the utilization of all material. We 
can never go back to our wasteful ways. 

473 



474 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [October 

COMMENT AND DISCUSSION 

Ediior. Journal oj Home Economics: 

In these days of such unusual interest in food, great care should be 
taken to avoid pubhshing statements which will mislead the laj-man, 
eager for knowledge. The paper "Dietary Study at Yassar" in j-our 
March number is, I believe, such a statement. 

Briefly, the figures given are these. In a dietary study at Vassar it 
was found that the average fuel value of the food for the individual per 
day was 2698 calories. The average student was 19.4 years old, 5 
feet 4 inches high, and weighed 123.9 pounds, and her requirements 
were estimated as under 2000 calories per day. The student, however, 
obtained at the Tuck Shops an unknown amount of food in excess of 
that calculated. From the estimates given in Gephart's paper on the 
St. Paul school boys, indications in the paper under discussion, and 
unpublished data on a dietary study conducted by the Carnegie Nutri- 
tion Laboratory, 10 per cent of the total calories may be taken as a 
conserv-ative estimate of the food eaten by students between meals, 
which would bring the total to 2970 calories per student per day. 

Tables were given citing dietary studies from other schools and col- 
leges with much the same figures. The only one of these papers I 
have seen is that of Gephart, where the large amount of food consumed, 
5000 calories (the authors give the number of calories as 4377, which 
does not include the extras which bring the total up to 5000), is taken 
to indicate the large requirement of the active growing boy. On the 
other hand, the authors of the Vassar paper state "We would probably 
be safe in saying that their requirements vary from 1900 to 2200 calories 
per day, according to age, size, and activity." The implied conclusion 
is that the average student grossly overeats. 

It is an accepted fact that food consumed and unused as energy is 
stored as latent energy or body fat. The Vassar student, eating 2970 
calories per day and requiring 2200 as the maximum, should be adding 
to body reserves 770 calories daily, which is equivalent to 81 grams of 
fat or 2.9 ounces, or 1 pound every 5 or 6 days! There seem to be only 
two possible logical deductions. Either the student requires more than 
is calculated or some mistake is made in estimating the food value. 

As a loyal Vassar graduate, may I also criticize another statement: 
"The meals were well balanced?" The authors call attention to the 
high proportion of fuel value obtained from protein (14.8 per cent), 



1918] COMMENT AND DISCUSSION 475 

which is the highest per cent from protein in any of the other schools 
cited, but which is not higher than the Atwater standard or that found 
in most dietaries, although it is higher than is now generally considered 
necessary. No mention is made, however, of the exceedingly high fat 
content. For a man at moderate work the fat requirement is variously 
estimated as from 51 to 65 grams daily, or 479.4 to 611 calories in an 
estimated diet of from 2630 to 3060 calories (Sherman's "Chemistry of 
Food and Nutrition," new edition, pages 362 and 363). Here we have 
1252 calories from fat in a total of 2698 calories (46 per cent). 

While, if the individual digestion does not protest and economy in 
diet is no object, fat may be used in excess of carbohydrate as a fuel, 
in these days with their cry of "save fat" would it not be the part of 
patriotism to bring the percentages of the three elements of food nearer 
the accepted standards? Even assuming the extra food was fat free, 
the argument would not be affected, as the extra 269 calories bring the 
carbohydrate to only 1317 calories as against 1252 calories of fat. 

Cornells Golay Benedict. 

Editor, Journal oj Home Economics: 

In reply to the above letter we should like to explain : 

First, that the paper was not written for the layman, but primarily for 
the specialist in nutrition and dietetics. Many points of general knowl- 
edge were therefore left to be assumed by the reader. A more popular 
version of this article was pubhshed in the Vassar Quarterly for May, 1918, 
in which these points were elaborated more carefully. 

Second, we had no intention of making any impUcation as to whether 
the food consumption was excessive or not. The actual consumption, 
which is well within the average as indicated by the comparative table of 
such results, is stated, and compared with the energy requirements as 
calculated by the accepted methods. It is left to the reader to form his or 
her own conclusions as to the reason for the discrepancy, which is prob- 
ably Httle greater than would be observed in a study of an average family 
on a liberal diet. In our more popular article we take pains to point out 
that "it would hardly be safe to conclude that all these young persons are 
eating a great deal more than they require. Our theoretical standards 
may be too small, owing to the existence of factors not yet recognized." 

On the other hand we are not aware that the figures obtained by 
Gephart are anywhere "taken to indicate the large requirement of the 
active growing boy." As Chittenden says ("Nutrition of Man," p. 158) : 



476 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [October 

Dietary studies. . . . affording more or less accurate information re- 
garding the average amounts of protein, fat, and carbohydrate consumed under 
varying conditions are indeed most interesting and important as affording 
information regarding dietetic customs and habits, but the writer fails to see 
any reason why such data should be assumed to throw any light on the actual 
food requirements of the body. 

Gephart himself (Rector's Report, St. Paul's School, Concord, 1916) 
referring to the fuel value per meal says: 

These figures appear to be high, but, inasmuch as we have no previous re- 
sults of this nature for comparison we can only say that they are a revelation. 

Mrs. Benedict objects to our statement that the meals were well bal- 
anced on the ground that both the protein and the fat were too high. 
That the protein was high we have ourselves pointed out; that it was too 
high, we hesitate to say in the light of the rather wide differences of opinion 
on the part of the highest authorities. Sherman sums up his discussion of 
the subject by the remark "To allow for varying conditions and for indi- 
vidual preferences as well as to provide a liberal margin for safety it is cus- 
tomary to consider that from 10-15 per cent of the total calories may be in 
the form of protein." ("Chemistry of Food and Nutrition," 2d ed. p. 382.) 
In connection with the question of the fat content of the diet it is interesting 
to note the statement published in Course II of the Food Conservation 
Courses for Colleges to the effect that an average of 1300 dietary studies, 
largely American but some from other regions, shows an average of 4.5 
ounces of fat per person per day. Our study showed an average of 4.9 
ounces per day, but it must be remembered that our study was made in 
the coldest part of the year when the fat in the diet is likely to be at its 
highest. Since the food was neither unpleasant nor indigestible on ac- 
count of its high fat content, and since fat may replace carbohydrate to 
a very large extent, limited chiefly by taste and convenience, the only 
argument against this use of fat is the patriotic one. But this study was 
of pre-war conditions when we felt that we were doing our whole duty if 
we made sure that no uneaten fat was wasted. The war rations of the 
College differ in this and many other particulars from the diet of those 
days, but a study of present conditions, while interesting in itself, would 
be of less value for comparison with other earlier studies. 

A. L. MACLEOD, 

M. A. Griggs. 



BOOKS AND LITERATURE 



Any book or periodical mentioned in this department may be obtained through the 
JotTRNAL OF HoME ECONOMICS if the Joumal price is listed. 



Cooperation, The Hope of the Consumer. By 
Ejierson p. Harris. New York: Mac- 
millan Company, 1918, pp. 322. S2 00. 
By mail of the Joumal, $2.15. 
In our definition of democracy we are too 
apt to emphasize one phase of it to the neg- 
lect of others. It is political democracy that 
we stress, a form that we have attained in 
some measure in the United States. Real 
democracy has been defined by Mr. Roose- 
velt as "equal opportunity for all, special 
privilege for none." 

Mr. Harris in this most interesting volume 
has shown us a way to move toward this 
economic democracy, through cooperation. 
Our present distributive system, based on 
private profit and competition, causes great 
social waste. Its aggressive selling methods 
cost the consuming public two billion dollars 
a year, and, what is more important, force 
goods upon the consumer to his detriment. 
Our whole economic system is based upon the 
fact that man has certain wants which he 
seeks to gratify. Progress comes with the 
stimulation of new wants. But a highly 
important problem is what wants to stimu- 
late. Shall we have a system which will 
stimulate wants for goods which will pro- 
\-ide the producer and distributor with a good 
profit, and, perhaps, injure the consumer, or 
at least oblige him to pay more for the goods 
than they are worth, or, shall we have a sys- 
tem of cooperation in which the consumer 
is given full and reUable information as to 
the nature and value of products, and is 
assisted in making a choice most advanta- 
geous to him? Salesmanship is confounded 
by its own exponents when one of them de- 
fines it as ''the power to persuade people 
to purchase at a profit." Aggressive adver- 



tising can also be indicted on the score that 
it magnifies the importance of things and 
creates an atmosphere favorable to material- 
ism, a philosophy the results of which our 
men in the trenches are now fighting. 

Under ceaseless competition between 
dealers there is every- inducement to debase 
goods. "The public has a right to know the 
real facts about its purchases." We are 
told that the consumer, and more particularly 
the housewife, should inform herself as to the 
articles which she must purchase. But it is 
practically out of the question to be well in- 
formed as to the nature, utihty, value, and 
fair price of all that one must buy. 

Jlr. Harris is not in sympathy with those 
who sweepingly condemn the middleman. 
There are certain functions which have to be 
performed, if not by the middleman, then 
by someone else. The same services must 
be performed, but they can and must be 
performed for less than the present charges. 
It is a question of diilerence in motive, of 
improved methods and inventions. Con- 
sumers must build and own the machinery 
of distribution and operate it in their 
own interest. Through cooperation con- 
sumers can secure their supplies at the exact 
cost of wholesale buying, plus that of trans- 
porting and breaking up into small quanti- 
ties, the minimum cost at which distribution 
can be carried on. Under a system of co- 
operation the results of all economies go 
automatically to the consumers and not to 
swell the middlemen's profits. 

Mr. Harris demonstrates the democratic 
basis of the Rochdale plan of cooperation, 
giving an account of its success, not only in 
retail business, but also in wholesale and in 
manufacturing in England and Scotland. 
477 



478 



THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS 



[October 



It is only because of cooperation as between 
individuals that human beings are enabled 
to live together in a society. Our whole 
industrial system is based essentially upon 
cooperation. Else how could we have even 
the rudiments of a division of labor? Co- 
operation is not merely a way in which one 
may save a few dollars on one's grocery bill; 
it is a creed, a belief in the brotherhood of 
man, and the outcome of a desire that all 
should work together for the benefit of each. 
Since 1914 the membership in the European 
cooperative societies has been steadily and 
rapidly increasing. The spirit of coopera- 
tion is gaining ground among the higher and 
middle classes. 

Mr. Harris fully realizes the difliculties of 
starting cooperative stores in America. 
There has been a false assumption that the 
dealer receives a large arbitrary profit and 
that profit could be cut out simply by start- 
ing a cooperative store. An educational 
program on a large scale is the first necessity, 
for the success of practical cooperation de- 
pends ultimately upon the faith of the con- 
sumer and his willingness to stand by his 
associates. The author gives many practi- 
cal suggestions and examples of cooperative 
undertakings which have been successful in 
this countr>'. The success of producers' co- 
operation is evidence that Americans can 
work together in this way. Can not the 
American consumer do the same thing? 

This is a volume which every housewife 
should read with some thought. It is plain 
enough for the average reader and is still a 
philosophical and scholarly treatment of the 
subject. The arrangement of the material 
is most clear and compact; the table of con- 
tents is admirably full, showing the busy 
reader at a glance the parts in which he may 
have the greater interest; and, for those who 
would wish to go deeper into the subject, 
there is the nucleus of a bibliography and the 
full text of model laws and other documents. 

Chase Going Woodhouse, 

Smith College. 



The Starvation Treatment of Diabetes. By 

Lewis Webb Hill, M.D., and Rena S. 

EcKMAN. Boston: W. M. Leonard, 3d 

ed., 1917, pp. 134. S1.25. Bymailofthe 

Journal, $1.35. 

The so-called Starvation Treatment 
otherwise known as the ."Ulen Treatment 
with more or less modifications, is now 
used almost entirely in the treatment of 
diabetes. It is therefore imperative that 
every dietetian and every teacher of dietet- 
ics should be familiar with it. 

The authors are well qualified to handle 
the subject. Doctor Hill being on the staflt 
of both the Children's Hospital, Boston, and 
the Har\'ard Medical School. Miss Eck- 
man has been for a number of years head 
dietitian at the Massachusetts General Hos- 
pital, Boston, and therefore presents the 
subject from a very practical standpoint. 

It is of special interest to the dietitian al- 
though it is written for the practicing physi- 
cian who is too busy to figure out dietary 
values. A chapter is devoted to the plan 
and details of the treatment followed by 
specific instructions for making the necessary 
urinary tests for sugar and acidosis. A 
graduated series of diet tables for patients 
ranging in weight from 88 to 176 pounds is 
given with the grams of protein, fat and 
carbohydrate, and the total calories. These 
tables are arranged for less fat than in the 
previous edition, owing to the proven tend- 
ency of high fat diets to produce acidosis. 
The quantities of foods making up the menus 
are given, not only in terms of grams for 
accurate work, but also in familiar sen-ings, 
such as "2 slices, 6 inches long," "one heap- 
ing tablespoon," and "one small serving." 

A number of very attractive recipes are 
given, including some special diabetic prep- 
arations. 

A new feature of this edition is a table of 
analyses of diabetic foods, made by the Con- 
necticut Agricultural Experiment Station. 

Although the subject is a very technical 
one, the book is very clearly and interestingly 
written. Lenna F. Cooper. 



1918] 



BOOKS AND LITERATURE 



479 



Industrial Arithmetic for Girls. By Nelson 

L. RoRAY. Philadelphia: P. BlakistoDs' 

Sons & Co., 1917, pp. 196. $.75. By 

mail of the Journal, S.85. 

This Industrial Arithmetic is a compact 

little book of problems on a wide variety of 

subjects. Small as it is, it is a welcome 

addition to the meager list of books on applied 

mathematics for girls. 

The general plan of the book is unusual. 
It consists almost entirely of examples with 
little explanatorj' matter. These examples 
are divided into groups called lessons. Fifty 
of these lessons are given over to special sub- 
jects such as angles and polygons, carpeting, 
recipes, tucks, areas of circles, the budget, 
insurance, household accounts, volumes of 
prisms, the nutritive value of food, the print 
shop. These lessons are arranged with little 
regard to sequence of subject matter, and 
they are interspersed %vith an equal number 
of so called re\new lessons made up of mis- 
cellaneous examples. It is difficult to under- 
stand the reason for this lack of continuity. 
For instance, what is the advantage of sepa- 
rating the lesson on garment design from that 
on tucks by seven other lessons on such 
totally unrelated subjects as carpeting, area 
of rectangles, and measurement in cooking, 
not to mention the miscellaneous reviews? 
Why should the lesson on recipes be separated 
from that on foods by seventy-seven totally 
unrelated lessons? 

The problems in the review lessons also 
represent a strange sequence of topics. For 
instance, in one lesson selected at random 
five consecutive problems are devoted to the 
following subjects: floor plans, coal bins, 
frozen pineapple, cutting a piece of muslin, 
cooking meat. This is typical of the con- 



tinual shifting of attention from one topic 
to another. It may be possible in this way 
to arouse sustained interest in the problems 
of the home and shop, and to develop skill 
in all these various applied problems, but 
it seems more reasonable to suppose that in- 
terest can be developed through focusing 
attention on one subject at a time, and that 
skill in the problems of the home or of the 
trade can best be developed by practice in 
the problems of that particular occupation. 

This failure to group the problems with 
regard to subject matter may be due in part 
to the author's faith in the value of mental 
g)-mnastics, for he includes problems that 
could justify their appearance on no other 
basis than the one he so frankly offers. For 
instance: "If the rent of 5^^ acres of land is 
S21| (sic), what will be the rent of 19fs acres 
of land at the same rate?" It seem sa pity 
to include in an industrial arithmetic ex- 
amples that belong to the old fashioned 
puzzle type. 

The question naturally arises as to the 
reason for calHng this book an industrial 
arithmetic. To be sure, four of the 108 
lessons are devoted to the print shop. But 
printing is not tlie only trade for girls, nor 
is it the only one that involves applied 
arithmetic. Is it true that general training 
is sufficient preparation for the use of arith- 
metic in all other trades? 

The book is rich in material although its 
effectiveness is lessened by this lack of clear- 
ness of purpose. The interesting collection 
of problems will, however, serve admirably 
to enrich the content of arithmetic courses, 
and the book will prove a useful addition 
to the texts available for the education of 
girls. 



BOOKS RECEIVED 



A Community Center. Henrj' E. Jackson. New York: The Macmillan Company, 1918 pp. 

159. $1.00. 
Patent and Proprietary Medicines. John Phillips Street. Chicago: American Medical 

.Association, 535 N. Dearborn St., 1917, pp. 274. $1.25, postpaid. 
Diseases oj Nutrition and Infant Feeding. John Lovett Morse and Fritz B. Talbot. New 

York: The Macmillan Company, 1916, pp. 34f. $3.00. 



480 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [October 

Food Guide for War Service at Home. Prepared under the Direction of the United States 
Food Administration in cooperation with the Department of Agriculture and the Bureau 
of Education. New York: Charles Scribner's Sons, 1918, pp. 67. $.25. 

Food and the War. United States Food Administration in cooperation with the Department 
of Agriculture and the Bureau of Education. Boston: Houghton Mifflin Co., 1918, pp. 
379. $.80. Revised edition of the course offered for colleges. 

Infant Feeding. Clifford G. Grulee. Third Edition Revised. Philadelphia: W. B. Saunders 
Company, 1917, pp. 326, illustrated. $3.25. 

The Elements of the Science of Nutrition. Graham Lusk. Third Edition, Reset. Philadel- 
phia: W. B. Saunders Company, 1917, pp. 641. $4.50. 

War Bread. Alonzo E. Taylor. New York: The Macmillan Company, 1918, pp. 99. $.60. 

Conservation of Food Energy. Henry Prentis Armsby. Philadelphia: W. B . Saunders Com- 
pany, 1918, pp. 65. $.75. 



PAMPHLETS RECEIVED 

Issued by the United States Department of Agriculture: 
Use Corn Meal and Corn Flour to Save Wheat. Circular No. 117. 
Use Oats to Save Wheat. Circular No. 118. 
Use Potatoes to Save Wheal. Circular No. 106. 
Use Rice Flour to Save Wheat. Circular No. 119. 

Suitable Storage Conditions for Certain Perishable Food Products. Bulletin No. 729, July 24, 
1918. 

Issued by the United States Public Health Service: 
Sifme Observations on the Personality of Feeble-Minded Children in the General Population. 
Reprint No. 467 from the Public Health Reports. 

Issued by the United States Department of Labor, Children's Bureau : 
Children's Health Centers. Children's Year Leaflet No. 5. 
Studies of Use of Milk by Families Having Little Children. II. Washington. 

Issued by the United States Fuel .Administration: 
FueJ Facts. August 1, 1918. 

Issued by the publishers listed: 
The Children's Year Campaign, .\merican Medical .Association, 535 N. Dearborn St., 

Chicago, 111. 
A n International Adventure. What the A merican Red Cross is Doing for the Civilians of France. 

July, 1917-May, 191S. American Red Cross, 12, Rue Boissy-D'Anglas, Paris, France. 
Practical Patriotic Recipes. Hampton Normal and Agricultural Institute Bulletin Vol. 14, 

No. 1. 
Provision for the Care of the Families and Dependents of Soldiers and Sailors. Julia C. Lathrop. 

Reprinted from Proceedings of the Academy of Political Science, Vol. VII, No. 4. 
Recipes for Jam-Making. Canada Food Board, Ottawa, 1918. 
War I>iet in the Home. Instructors' Manual. .\. R. C. 706, June 21, 1918. American Red 

Cross, Department of Nursing. 
War Ideas — To Make You Healthy, Wealthy, Wise. Compiled by the seniors and juniors of 

the Department of Home Economics, University of Wyoming, Laramie, Wyo. 



1918] BOOKS AND LITERATtTRE 481 

BIBLIOGR.\PHY OF HOME ECONOMICS 

PERIODICAL LITERATURE 

Nutrition and Health 

R6le of Milk Products in Milk Bome Diseases. Editorial, .\ . 1'. Med. J our., Aug. 10, 19IS. 

Food Value of Bread. R. M. Allen, .Y. Y. Med. Jour., Aug. 10, 1918. Modern xiew 
of the need of wheat bread in diet. Outlook for the year's crop of cereals. Introduction 
of nulk solids in bread or supplements of fruits and vegetables. 

Undernutrition of Children. Dr. Anna Richardson, A'. I". Med. Jour., July 20, 1918. 
IndiWdual help to be given to 182 children by a proposed school lunch. 

Some Relations of Diet to Disease. L. B. Mendel, N. Y. Med. Jour., July 13, 1918. 
"Malnutrition'' term little used now. "Deficiency Diseases'' produce specific clinical mani- 
festations due to lack of one of the two t>'pes of vitamines. New order of phenomena shows 
danger exists in restricted diets. 

Diabetes. Editorial, A'. Y. Med. Jour., July 27, 1918. Proteins in the causation of dia- 
betes. High protein and low carbohydrate increases hypoalkalinity and acid production, as 
also does overindulgence. No harm in presence of sugar in urine — merely an index of how 
much sugar could not be utilized. N equilibrium must be reestablished and meat increases 
in-equilibrium. High protein, low carbohydrate is more liable to produce diabetes. Normal 
well balanced diet better. 

Starvation Treatment of Diabetes. Editorial, N. Y. Med. Jour., Aug. 5, 1918. 

Infant Feeding. Harry Lowenberg, ;V. F. Med. Jour., July 6, 1918. Mechanical Com- 
minution of Food in Therapeusis of Acute Alimentary' Disturbances of Infancy and Child- 
hood. Preliminar^■ Report. 

How Can We Get Enough Sleep? E. F. Bowers, N. Y. Med. Jour., Aug. 3, 1918. 

Some Phases of Medical Inspection in Public Schools. George M. Retan, .V. I'. Med. 
7ottr., Aug. 31,1918. 

Pasteur's Relation to Medicine and Surgery. W. C. Borden. .V. Y. Med. Jour., .\ug. 
31,1918. 

.\ Clinical Consideration of the Etiological Importance of Fat. Harry Lowenberg. 
Therapeutic Gazelle, July 15, 1918. 

Congenital Syphilis and the Doctor. J. M. Wakefield, A". Y. Med. Jour., Aug. 17, 1918. 
Definition. Symptoms. Six cases with history. Doctor's duty to the public. 

Is the Modem Treatment of Syphilis a Success? Editorial, N. Y. Med. Jour., Aug. 17, 
1918. Quotes Dr. W. T. Williams, Canadian Med. Assn. Jour., July, 1918. Seven per cent 
of 500 cases cured. 

Acute Coryza; Its Intranasal Complications, Diagnosis and Therapeutics. Ernst Dan- 
ziger. A'. Y. Med. Jour., Aug. 10, 1918. Correct method of irrigating the nose. 

Twilight Sleep. Harry Aranow, N. Y. Med. Jour., July 13, 1918. Advantages and dis- 
advantages. Successful method of using small amounts of morphine and scopolamine in one 
or two doses; not dangerous; not need of constant attention of physician; deser\-es adis- 
tinct and merited place in obstetrics. 

Dispensary Abuse. Ira S. Wile, N. Y. Med. Jour., July 6, 1918. 

Clothes Louse. Wm. Moore, N. Y. Med. Jour., July 20, 1918. Impregnation of the 
underwear as a means of controlling the clothes louse. 

Recent Developments in Intestinal Bacteriology. Arthur I. Kendall, Amer. Jour. Med. 
Set., 156 (1918), No. 2, pp. 157-173. A very valuable review and interpretation. 

Frequency of Protozoic Enterocolitis in the Middle West; Clinical Manifestations, Diag- 
nosis and Treatment. Frank Smithies, Amer. Jour. Med.Sci., 156 (1918) No. 2, pp. 173-184. 



482 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [October 

Effect of Stimuli from the Lower Bowel on the Rate of Emptying the Stomach. Franklin 
W. White, Amer. Jour. Med. Set., 156 (1918), No. 2, pp. 184-189. 

On the Hydrolysis of Proteins in the Presence of E.xtraneous Materials and on the Origin 
and Nature of the "Humin" of a Protein Hydrolysate. Ross Aiken Gortner, Science, 48 
(1918) No. 1231, pp. 122-124. 

The Nutririve Value of Certain Fish. J. C. Drummond, Jour. Phys., 52 (1918), Nos. 2 
and 3, pp. 95-109. Summary as follows: 

1. The coagulable proteins of the muscle tissue of cod, herring, and canned salmon possess 
a nutritive value as high as those derived from beet. 

2. The so-called "fatty" fish, which contain considerable quantiries of fat distributed 
throughout their muscle tissue, may serve as valuable sources of the important dietary es- 
sential, the fat-soluble "A." 

3. Certain fish-liver oUs are particularly rich in the fat-soluble accessory. 

4. No appreciable amounts of the water-soluble or antineuritic factor were detected in the 
muscle tissues of the fishes examined. Small amounts were, however, present in extracts 
prepared from the whole herring, having originated in all probability from the reproductive 
organs, or other glandular organs. 

The Vasodilator Action of Histamine and of Some Other Substances. H. H. Dale and A. 
N. Richards, Jour. Phys., 52 (1918), Nos. 2 and 3, pp. 110-165. 

The Work of the Bureau of Tuberculosis in France — .American Red Cross. William 
Charles White, Avier. Jour. Med. Sci., 156 (1918) No. 3, pp. 415-430. 

The Ration and the Requirement of Food for Children. Amer. Jour. Med. Sci., 156 (1918), 
No. 3, p. 431. 

The Composition of Meat under Various Conditions of Nutrition. Amer. Jour. Med. Sci., 
156 (1918) No. 3, pp. 431, 432. 

Food 

Barley as a Food Material. Amer. Jour. Med. Sci., 156 (1918) No. 3, p. 432. 

What is the Milk Situation in Your Town? Lenna F. Cooper, Good Health, Aug. 

Lessons from the .Army Kitchen. Lenna F. Cooper, Good Health, Sept. 

Under the Crust of the French War Loaf. William Harper Dean, Country Gentlemen, 
Aug. 17. 

Food After the War. Carl W. Ackerman, Country Gentlemen, Aug. 31. 

Food Conservation in an Ohio Hospital. Sara Benedict, Mod. Hasp., Sept. 

The Relation of the Nurse to the Conservation Program. Edna N. White, Amer. Jour. 
Nursing, Sept. 

Miscellaneous 

The Woman's Committee and the Children's Year. Jessica Peixotto, Gen. Fed. Mag., 
Aug. 

The Undernourished Child. L. Emmett Holt, M.D., Gen. Fed. Mag., Aug. 

The Protection of Children. Julia Lathrop, Gen. Fed. Mag.. Aug. 

Home Economics Studies in Grades Seven to Twelve. Anna M. Cooley and others. 
Teachers Col. Rec, May. Part II, (continued from Mar.). 

The Birth and Childhood of Vocational Education with a Forecast of Its Development 
During Adolescence. David Snedden, Educ. Admin, and Supervision, May. 

Vocation Re-Education of Disabled Soldiers. T. B. Kidner, Educ. Admin, and Super- 
vision, June. 

Vocational Education under the Smith-Hughes Act. C. A. Prosser, Educ. Admin, and 
Supervision, June. 



NEWS FROM THE FIELD 



Honorary Memberships. The American 
Home Economics Association has honored 
itself by inviting a number of distinguished 
people to become honorary members of the 
Association. Acceptances to the in\'ita- 
tions have been received from Mr. Herbert 
Hoover and Mrs. Hoover — whom we are all 
delighted to honor; from Dr. E. V. ISIc- 
Collum, who ser\'ed the .Association in so 
manj- ways; from Lord Rhonda, formerly 
Food Controller for England, who wrote 
shortly before his death; from Silvio Crispi, 
Food Controller for Italy; from M. E. Gley 
of the French Food Administration, and M. 
Vilgrain, Deputy Food Commissioner for 
France; and from Prof. E. H. Starling of the 
Royal Society, London. It is a great privi- 
lege to welcome these members, and it should 
also be an incentive toward making the 
Association worth while in every way. 



.Among the changes in positions that have 
taken place this fall the following may be 
noted: 

Josephine Beny has resigned from the 
professorship of home economics at the 
University of Minnesota, and Mildred 
Weigley has become head of the department. 
Miss Weigley has been acting head during 
the past year during jNIiss Berry's service 
on the Vocational Education Board. 

Dr. Amy Daniels, formerly of the Univer- 
sity of Wisconsin, is in charge of the Nutri- 
tion Laboratory of the Child Welfare Re- 
search Station at the University of Iowa, 
Iowa City. This research station cooperates 
with the Medical School and other depart- 
ments of the University. 

Dr. Ruth Wheeler, for many years at the 
University of Illinois, is in charge of the 
work in Home Economics at Goucher 
College, Baltimore. 



Jean Mackinnon, who was last year with 
the Department of Agriculture, is substi- 
tuting for Miss Sweeney. 

Georgia White, formerly Dean of Women 
at the Michigan -Agricultural College, has 
become Dean of Women at Cornell Univer- 
sity. Mary Edmunds has taken her place 
as Dean of Home Economics at Michigan. 

Emmeline Whitcomb has left the Univer- 
sity of Wyoming to become head of the De- 
partment of Home Economics at the Univer- 
sity of Montana, and Greta Gray, from the 
Pittsburg Normal School, is to take Miss 
Whitcomb's place at Wyoming. 

Jessie Hoover has resigned from Idaho 
Agricultural College to become Federal 
Leader of Dairy Agents, Office of Extension 
Work North and West, U. S. Department of 
.Agriculture, in cooperation with the Dairy 
Division. 

Mrs. Ellen Dabney is on leave of absence 
from her supervisorship of the city schools 
in Seattle and is City Home Demonstration 
Agent for the District of Columbia. 

Dr. Louise Stanley has leave of absence 
from the University of Missouri to be Special 
Agent of the Federal Board of Vocational 
Education. 

Adelaide Baylor, formerly State Super- 
visor of Home Economics for Idaho, is also 
serving upon the same Board. 

Gertrude Van Hoesen, who has resigned 
from the University of Chicago, and Emma 
Conley of the University of Wisconsin, and 
Winifred Gibbs, formerly of the .A. I. C. P., 
New York City, are .Assistants in the E.x- 
tension Work for Women, Office of Exten- 
sion Work, North and West. 

483 



484 



THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS 



[October 



Mrs. Roger Adams (Lucile Wheeler) of 
the University of Illinois, is in charge of 
the Experimental Laboratory^ of the Food 
Administration. 

Dr. Minna Denton has leave of absence 
from Lewis Institute, where she had accepted 
a position, and is in charge of the E.xperimen- 
tal Laboratory at the Department of .Agri- 
culture. 

Dr. Katharine Blunt has been made Asso- 
ciate Professor at the University of Chicago, 
and is Chairman of the Department of Home 
Economics in the School of Education. 

Grace Hood has resigned from Lewis In- 
stitute and is to be this year in charge of the 
Home Economics work at the University of 
Cincinnati. 

Mary Sweeney has a leave of absence from 
the University of Kentucky and is in France, 
doing canteen work for the Young Men's 
Christian Association. 

Notes from the The Stout Institute. 

The school of Household Arts of The Stout 
Institute has completed the second year in 
its new building, one of the largest and most 
complete of its kind in the country. The 
basement contains locker rooms, laundrj', 
refrigeration room, recitation rooms, and 
store rooms. The first floor is used for 
administration offices, library and audi- 
torium. The second floor is devoted to the 
work of clothing and textiles and consists 
of six laboratories, with recitation rooms, 
oflices, and rest rooms. 

The department of foods and cookery oc- 
cupies the third floor, with four large 
kitchen laboratories, and four smaller labo- 
ratories for special experimental or prac- 
tice work, and the usual lecture rooms and 
oflices. Each laboratory is equipped with a 
built-in refrigerator, cooled by a refrigeration 
system. Four science laboratories, two art 
rooms, an amphitheatre seating two hundred 
and fifty, research laboratories, a dark room 
for lantern work, are on the fourth floor. 



The passage b\- the legislature of the bill 
granting to The Stout Insdtute the power to 
confer the B.S. degree in Household Arts 
and in Industrial .Arts made it possible to 
offer a greater variety of courses during the 
past year, both technical and scientific, as 
well as academic and cultural, such as his- 
tory', economics, and literature. 

Both the faculty and students of the 
Institute have taken an active part in war 
work. Miss Kugel, director of The School 
of Household .Arts, is a member of the Wom- 
an's Committee of the Council of Defense, 
and chairman of the County Food Conserva- 
tion Committee. Otliers of the faculty 
have lectured on Conser\-ation. Students 
have been giving demonstrations throughout 
the year, thus having an opportunity for 
service as well as gaining valuable experi- 
ence and practice. Classes have been held for 
the training of county women as demonstra- 
tion leaders. .A war kitchen, for the women 
of the community, has been maintained 
during the summer and the fall months. 
Every course in foods, from the eighth grade 
practice classes to the advanced work in 
e.xperimental cookery, has stressed the pres- 
ent problems, so that students possess the 
knowledge and ability as well as the enthusi- 
asm that enables them to be most intelligent 
Food .Administration workers. .A special 
course on "The Present Food Problem" 
has been required of all students. 

In the clothing courses Red Cross hospital 
garments, and gamients for Belgian relief 
have supplemented or have been substituted 
for the usual work, whenever possible, and 
special classes in surgical dressings have been 
arranged. Menomonie's Public Schools have 
a progressive and effective Junior Red Cross. 
The work and activities on sewing are under 
the direction of Miss Holman, Supervisor of 
the Domestic .Art Practice Work in the 
Institute, so that practice teachers have con- 
ducted work in the public school classes. 

The Stout Institute has been placed on 
the same basis as the other state schools, 
with free tuition for Wisconsin students. 



Vol. X, No. 11 November, 1918 

THE 

Journal of Home Economics 

For those interested in Homemaking, Institution Management, 
and Educational Work in Home Economics 

Mes. Alice P. Norton, Editor Ketceah E. Baldwin, Manosing Editor 

Editorial Board 
Mrs. Mary H. Abel C. F. Langworthy Eibelw™ Miller Rdtb Wheeler Amy Daniels 

Ex-Officio Members —Edna N. ^\'HrTE, President AmericTn Home Economics Association 
Elsie Leonard, Cbairman Institution Economics Section 
Katherine Blcnt, Chainnan Science Section 
Agnes E. Harris, Chairman Extension Education Section 
Grace Den.sy, Chairman Textile Section 

Collaborators — The Officers. Members of the Council, and Advisors 



CONTENTS 

Conservation is Imperative Frontispiece 

Dietitian Service at Home Lulu Graves 485 

School Lunch Work m Ohio Treva E. Kaufman 490 

Teaching the Budget to Children Helen C. Good speed 495 

Jelly Making with Sugar Savers ...... Lucile Wheeler Adams and Ethel Loftin 503 

The Food of Prisoners of War 510 

For the Homem-^ker 

The Present Food Situation 513 

Home Grown Foods 515 

Wheat Bre.\d and the World's Food 515 

Food in France During the Last Days or the War 516 

The Price of Sugar 517 

The Chicago Food Conservation Bureau Mrs. Charles A. Munroe 518 

Kitchen Tests for Pectin in Jelly Making Minna C. Denton 520 

The Meaning of the Word Corn 522 

Editorial 523 

Comment and Discussion 525 

Books and Literature 527 

Bibliography of Houe Economics 529 

News from the Field 531 



TaE JoaRSAL OF HouE Ecoyoincs is published monthly by the American Home Economics .Association. 
12.00 A YEAR. FOREIGN J2.35. CANADIAN J2.20. SINGLE COPIES 25 CENTS 

HOW TO REMIT. Remittances should be sent by Check, Express Order or Postal Money Order, payable to the 
American Home Economics /ssociatJcn. ( nirirc' , i n)cs' n jiltd n .-.[rrj iftdtd letter, is at the sender's risk.'. 

NOTICE. When payment is made by check no receipt will be sent unless requested 

CHANGE IN ADDRESS. Notice of change in'address should be sent Two Weeks before the date of issue on which 
the change is to take effect. The subscriber's Old Address should be clearly indicated in addition to the New Address. 

AMERICAN HOME ECONOMICS ASSOCIATION 1211 Cathedral St., Baltimore, Md. 

Tbe;Joor.val of HoaE Economcs is on sale at John Wanamaker'a, Philadelphia: The Old Comer Book Store, Boston; 
\. C. McClurg's, Chicago; Baltimore News Company, Baltimore; Woodward and Lothrop, Washington 



Conservation is Imperative 

TTTOR the people of the United States, the need of 
-*- voluntary sacrifice, of willing devotion is as great 
as ever. --------- 

That same spirit by which Europe was saved from its 
gravest peril during the season of food shortage is still 
required of us. Proving our endurance as we have 
proved our energy, the American people are to keep the 
trust committed to them. ------ 



THE 

Journal of Home Economics 

Vol. X NOVEMBER, 1918 No. 11 

DIETITL\N SERVICE AT HOMEi 

LULU GRAVES 
Cornell University, Itkaca, N. Y. 

The subject assigned to me on the program is "The Dietitian's Serv- 
ice Overseas," but my knowledge of that service is so limited that it 
would not be possible for me to discuss it; I shall, therefore, confine 
myself to the opportunities and need for service at home. 

During the past year when it has been necessarj^ to forego the use of 
many food materials which we have previously used in extravagant 
amounts and to utilize others in ways never before thought of, a number 
of institutions have suddenly realized that it is really desirable to have 
"brains in the kitchen." In common with other useful occupations 
throughout the nation, the work of the dietitian has increased very 
greatly, not alone in the problem of using substitute food materials in 
the preparation of palatable food for large groups of people, and in the 
exercising of eternal vigilance to prevent waste, but in the labor situa- 
tion, a difficulty which has been harder to meet than either of the others. 
The calls for dietitians for the past year have in tlie majority of cases 
placed at least as great emphasis upon the executive as upon the teach- 
ing ability of the woman. This is no doubt due to the condition Just 
referred to, but under no circumstances do we want this tendency to 
prevail. 

In order to work intelligent!}' with the physician it is necessar>' for a 
dietitian to be familiar with the common sjTnptoms and diagnosis of 
diseases of metabolism. At this time when our physicians and nurses 

' Presented at The Eleventh .Annual Meeting of the American Home Economics .\BSocia- 
tion, Chicago, June, 1918. 

4S5 



486 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [November 

are giving their services to the country to such an extent that our hos- 
pitals are being managed with the fewest possible number of physicians, 
and when they are accepting the largest numbers of untrained girls 
that can possibly be cared for, it is most essential that the dietitian can 
step in to the breach, follow up her diets, make use of the ward charts 
as well as her own and in many ways relieve the physician, at the same 
time enlarging her own capabiUties for usefulness. She should be able 
to go into the laboratory, if need be, and make any of the simpler tests 
or analyses which are essential to treatment, particularly urine and 
blood tests; if there is a question about substitute food materials which 
must be used in special diets and she cannot get the desired information 
from the city chemist she should be able to make at least rough tests 
of these. 

Her work as an aid to the physician need not be confined to the 
wards; hospital dispensaries are much in need of this work. Dispen- 
saries that have formerly had five, or six, or even more medical men on 
their service are now glad to get one or two. The patients who come 
to the dispensary are utterly at sea with the substitute food materials 
and desperately in need of advice. The physician with all of his other 
added work cannot take time to go into the details of the recent changes, 
with the necessary instructions in cooking, even should he have the 
information. 

A\Tien our men are returned to us from the front with the various 
abnormal conditions that we know must be faced, there must neces- 
sarily be many who will need dietetic as well as surgical treatment. 
Bodies that have been taxed to the limit of endurance, or that have lost 
their reserve force must have skillful treatment of every kind. If we 
are not now able to give them this, why not begin at once to fit our- 
selves for it and be ready when the need arises. The physician will be 
glad of help if he is convinced that the one offering it knows what she 
is doing. She should be able to understand what he is talking about 
when he mentions other things beside glycosuria; if he speaks of acidosis 
she should know the various causes that may bring about this condi- 
tion, and if he is interested in the nitrogen content of his patient's diet, 
she should know food composition well enough to give what he wishes 
without troubling him for details. In all probability he does not know 
what happens to the food elements in the process of cooking, and it is 
her province to enlighten him if necessary. 



1918] DIETITIAN SERVICE AT HOME 487 

It is sometimes said that the physician does not want some one else 
to prescribe for his patient. If my own experience may serve as an 
ilhistration, that is not the case. In more than three years' experience 
at Lakeside Hospital no physician on the staff, or in any other way 
connected with the hospital, has ever prescribed a diet for a patient, 
whether the patient was receiving dietetic treatment or for any other 
reason being served a special diet. If we had not discussed the patient's 
condition, they would send instructions to my office to serve a diet low 
in nitrogen, or high in iron, or some such general terms, but never a 
specific order. My experience in Chicago hospitals was the same. 
Charts were alwa^'s kept in my department for every patient thus 
treated, tabulating what was prescribed, what was eaten, and what was 
refused, if any, for each meal served. The number of calories yielded 
as well as the number of grams of each food element was recorded. 
If the laboratory findings were not what we thought they should be we 
could refer to our chart and tell whether or not the difficulty was caused 
by diet. 

On the other hand it is to the dietitian's advantage to get all the in- 
formation possible from the physician. She should take time to attend 
cUnics and lectures if they are in any way relative to the work, see 
X-ray examinations and in other ways let no opportunity pass to 
learn the things not included in her college course. 

When the country becomes normal again there will probably be a 
continuance of the movement begun a few years ago to establish metab- 
olism wards in our institutions. So far as I know those already estab- 
lished are, with few exceptions, in charge of nurses when they should be 
under the care of the dietitian. If dietitians meet the present crisis as 
they should this matter will adjust itself. 

Last winter a questionnaire was sent from my department to 100 
hospitals; much to my surprise I learned that more than 60 per cent of 
these hospitals had a trained woman in charge of their main kitchens. 
Though this questionnaire was sent to a special class of hospitals and 
not for the purpose of getting this infomiation, it is of interest to know 
that this plan is becoming so general. Probably, however, the per cent 
of hospitals taken as a whole which have this plan would not be any- 
thing like this figure. 

It is useless to dwell upon the importance of tact, judgment, self-con- 
trol, ability to meet emergencies, and the numerous other characteristics 



488 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [November 

which one must possess if one is to supervise the work of the main 
kitchen in a hospital. The people whom we must employ in our kitch- 
ens today tax the patience and ingenuity of a superwoman; the markets 
and deliveries are no less a trial. Because of this the need arises for 
mechanical devices to do all the work possible. In the selection of this 
equipment to save man power one must be more than usually alert to 
the construction. Those in the kitchens are apt to be irresponsible and 
incompetent either to control or to care for machinery. We must, so 
far as possible, consider how long a time will be required to replace any 
part of the machine which may get out of order, whether or not it can 
be suppUed by a local dealer ; if it is so compHcated that much time will 
be required to teach an employee how to use it or to care for it and 
whether or not it may be easily kept clean. 

A number of hospitals are introducing cafeteria service for their em- 
ployees, or nurses, or both, as one solution for shortage of labor. This 
calls for knowledge of other things which previously was not considered 
a part of the dietitian's business. 

Since hospitals are asking more of their dietitians they will naturally 
expect to give more. One thing that is very important is the offering 
of training to student dietitians. This training may not be essential 
to every one who goes into hospital work but it certainly is an advan- 
tage to any one to have this experience in a good hospital before assum- 
ing the management of a department. Hospital hfe is so different 
from the hfe and experience of the average woman that this period in 
which she gets an insight into hospital technique and requirements 
without having the responsibility is very valuable. In the past, few 
hospitals have had trained women in their kitchens and very few indeed 
have had any sort of system. When a woman is engaged for this work 
it is very apt to be for the purpose of ^tabUshing a system. If she has 
had this training as a student dietitian she will have some foundation 
upon which to build even though conditions may differ greatly. Some 
dietitians have objected to giving this training to students, not caring 
to add this to their numerous other duties, but that feeling is not so 
prevalent as formerly and now the majority of dietitians are willing to 
doit. 

The services of our dietitians in training camps have not been what 
we could wish in every instance. Perhaps the work is too new to e.xpect 
it to be well organized and efficient. There is unquestionably a great 
uncultivated field for work there. As nearly as I can learn the menus 



1918] DIETITIAN ser\t;ce at home 489 

and general cooking are in the hands of men detailed to that duty; the 
extent of the dietitian's service depends entirely upon the mess sergeant. 

One camp with which I happen to be familiar has seven dietitians, 
each working independently of the rest, and only one of the seven had 
any knowledge or experience with diets for special diseases before going 
into this work. WTiat can a woman hope to do in this service where 
practically her whole duty is feeding the sick if she has had no previous 
training in diet in disease. Everyone concerned reahzes the difficulties 
of the present arrangement, and plans are now being considered, I 
understand, for remedying the matter, at least to some extent. There 
is need now, and the need will increase, for women with knowledge of 
food composition and food values, and abihty to adapt that knowledge 
to the treatment of disease. Possibly at no time will she be privileged 
to select from the markets; so she must be able to utilize the materials 
at hand to the best advantage. 

Other opportunities for the dietitian to serve at home are offered by 
commercial interests. Many large manufacturing firms and depart- 
ment stores are wanting women of training to feed their employees. 
They realize the value of having employees well nourished. This 
apphes not only to the serving of proper food in their lunch rooms, but 
it also includes giving aid to those emplo3'ees who have some abnormal 
condition of the digestive organs, just as the firm's nurse gives her 
services. 

Does not this sound as if there were sufficient need for the dietitian's 
services at home? I do not mean to discourage any one who feels that 
she must go overseas — provided she has the physical, moral, and mental 
strength to meet the conditions there ; but there is so much to be done 
at home, and really more opportunity for doing it, that we must some 
of us be willing to do the work which does not carry with it the halo. 



490 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [November 

SCHOOL LUNCH WORK IN OHIO 

TREVA E. KAUFFMAN 
Ohio State University 

For a number of years considerable thought has been given to the 
teaching of home economics in the rural schools. There has been some 
little discussion of the work in writing, and some work actually accom- 
plished. In the year 1914, the Department of Home Economics Exten- 
sion of Ohio was asked by the State Superintendent of Public Instruc- 
tion to visit and to give a week's instruction in home economics in every 
county normal school in the state. The superintendent was looking 
forward to the time when a law might be passed that every school in 
Ohio must have some work in home economics, as had been the case 
with agricultural work, hence his interest in preparing teachers to a 
limited extent. These county normal schools in Ohio, about fifty in 
number, give instruction to rural teachers for a period of one year. 
Since the time for giving the instruction in home economics was only 
one week, it was decided to give these students a general view of the 
subject, and to take up the food phase of the work in an intensive study. 

After our first year's work with these students, the demand and 
opportunity presented itself for actually helping some of them start 
this work in their own schools. The plan evolved was to have these 
teachers present some food principles and facts to their pupils and make 
the application through the school lunch. This cold noon-day lunch of 
thousands of school children of the rural districts seemed to be the log- 
ical center around which to begin our study of foods. 

As the department was not sure that the plan was workable, it was 
thought best to try it out. Four one-room rural schools were selected 
in two different counties. Two teachers, a man and a woman, were 
graduates of their county normal school, while the other two, also one 
man and one woman, had the minimum requirement of training in a 
state normal school. Each community was entirely different from the 
others. One school was located near a small village of about 100 people, 
both white and colored, another school in a progressive wealthy farm- 
ing community, another in a very conservative community, having no 
interest in civic affairs whatsoever, the fourth in a somewhat mixed com- 
munity, with some progressive farmers, and others belonging to a very 
conservative religious group. 



1918] SCHOOL LUNai WORK IN OHIO 491 

A series of twenty food lessons was tried out by the writer in these 
four practice one-room schools in 1915-16. The plan used was to teach 
some food principles, correlating them with other studies in school, 
and making the apphcation through the serving of one lunch dish to 
supplement the cold lunch from home. 

From the results of our experiment, four phases of the work in Ohio 
have been developed, namely: 

1. The teaching of home economics (foods) in connection with the 
school lunch in the small rural school of one or two rooms. 

2. The teaching of food work in the larger rural school, that is cen- 
tralized, consolidated, or village, in connection with the school lunch. 

3. The use of the series of food lessons in the county normal schools 
to give these students teaching methods. 

4. The use of our plans for the public schools in the city having a 
lunch room or desiring to start this work. 

The Small Rural School. The plan used for this school was as fol- 
lows: Only a small amount of equipment was necessary. A two 
burner stove (oil or gasoline), 1 large kettle, a 12 quart pail or stock 
pot, a dish pan, drain pan, spoons, measuring cup, knives, and other 
small utensils, made up the essentials. For three of these practice 
schools the University furnished this minimum of equipment which, 
however, was purchased by the pupils after the year's work. At the 
fourth school, interested parents furnished the equipment. A cup- 
board and a table were necessary and these were made by the boys of 
the schools from boxes, or the table was donated by a parent. The 
serving dishes, consisting of a plate, spoon, and cup for each child, were 
furnished by each pupil. 

One objection made by some superintendents and parents was that 
it was not always possible to secure the equipment, and that there was 
not suiScient space for it. This was entirely overcome, as was shown 
by the work in the practice schools and many other schools. The equij> 
ment in a number of schools was donated by the parents of the pupils, 
or a social was given and the money received used for equipment. The 
amount of space required was so small that a corner in the back of the 
smallest school room was ample. 

It has been stated in explaining the experiment, that the plan was to 
teach some food principles, correlating them with other studies in 
school, and making the application through the serving of one lunch 
dish to supplement the cold lunch from home. Each new lesson was 



492 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [November 

presented and demonstrated by the teacher, requiring from 30 to 40 
minutes on one day of each week, with the assistance of a committee of 
three pupils. If the teacher desired to serve a lunch dish each day, it 
was prepared before school time, at recess, or at home. In each case, 
however, it was reheated at noon, and no school time was lost. This 
work was done by the members of the committee for the week. 

Another objection made was that there was not time in the over- 
crowded school curriculum for the work. This objection was overcome 
in every case by correlating our work with other studies, such as geog- 
raphy, arithmetic, language, hygiene, drawing, and agriculture. 

The supphes for the lunch dish in these small rural schools were 
donated by the pupils, the teacher taking care to divide the amounts 
necessary among all the pupils. In all schools where this work has 
been tried out, all pupils have donated their share of materials. 

In order to encourage the further practice of food preparation, and 
to bring the interests of home and school closer together, a card record 
of various home duties performed by the pupils was kept by the teacher. 

As a result of this experiment, our series of twenty food lessons was 
published. These lessons have been used by many schools of this type. 

Tlie Larger Rural School. In the larger rural school, the cold noon 
day lunch was more of a problem than in the small rural school. Here 
it was found that many children ride long distances in the early morn- 
ing often without breakfast and remain in school the entire day with 
nothing but a cold lunch at noon. They return late in the evening, 
eat a heavy meal and go to bed. The plan of this school day was the 
reverse of what it should be, as a nutritious breakfast should be eaten, 
with a warm lunch at noon, and a light digestible supper at night. 
Neither the underfed nor overfed child could give his mind to study. 

As a means of presenting the subject of home economics in this type 
of school, it seemed best for the present to use the school lunch, since, 
due to the lack of funds for buying equipment and paying a trained 
teacher, it would be many years before regular home economics work 
could be undertaken. 

A minimum amount of equipment was used, usually donated by the 
community or by the Board of Education, or purchased from funds 
obtained from an entertainment. The equipment was placed in some 
available room, and a class of older girls, from the higher grades or 
high school, under the direction of one of the regular teachers, prepared 
and served the lunch. The teacher, of course, was directed by our plans. 



1918] SCHOOL LUNCH WORK IN OHIO 493 

The class purchased the supplies, planned, prepared, and served the 
food, washed the dishes, kept accounts, and calculated the cost per 
serving. All this constituted a valuable lesson in home economics. 

This work was placed on the sam.e basis as any other subject taught 
in school, and credit was given for it. 

ViTien a teacher was found who had some training in home economics 
more actual teaching of food principles and values was accomplished 
v/ith this serving of the school lunch. If it was found (as in a few cases) 
that home economics had already been taught, then the class in foods 
had charge of the lunch and used their practice dishes for the lunch 
room. WTien there was an advanced class in foods, as in some cities, 
it was found most desirable to have them in charge of the work. 

In these schools one of the two following plans was used: one or two 
hot dishes were prepared to supplement the cold lunch from home, 
or a sufficient number of dishes were prepared to supply the whole 
lunch. In this type of school the supplies were bought, and the lunch 
dish sold at cost. 

The crowded conditions in many schools complicated the serving 
when there were several hundred students. In such cases, the younger 
pupils were served in their school rooms at their desk, by a committee 
of three, while the older pupils were served "cafeteria style." Where 
an extra room was available, lunch tables and chairs were provided. 
This proved to be a desirable arrangement. For use in these schools a 
46-page bulletin has been published as a result of the experiment of 
the first year made by a number of schools. 

There has been some discussion and questioning as to the educational 
value of a class spending all their practice time on the preparation and 
serving of lunch dishes. But from our experience, the conditions and 
type of the schools considered, this method has been educational to the 
school as a whole as well as to the girls; and has provided a nutritive 
lunch. In all the schools doing this work, the idea of presenting food 
principles or facts, and correlating them with other studies in school 
has been suggested in talks and plans and is definitely known to have 
been accomplished. 

The County Normal School. The students in these schools besides 
receiving one week's instruction in home economics from our extension 
workers, have used our plans in several different ways. A number of 
them have made use of the lessons, following the plan of the small 
rural schools, the normal director requiring the students to present and 



494 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [November 

demonstrate the lessons. When a trained home economics teacher was 
director in the school where the normal school was located, she super- 
vised the work, using the same plan. Through their practice teaching 
these students have gone out and presented lessons in the small rural 
schools, and prepared lunch dishes in the larger rural school. 

The City Public School. The public school in the city, representing 
the fourth phase of the work, did not request help with its school lunch 
problem until this year. The requests have come from two different 
existing conditions: from schools having home economics and lunch 
room work, and desiring to correlate the two; and from schools having 
no home economics but wishing to start some work through the school 
lunch. So far the plans for the rural school have been used, as no new 
plan has been devised. 

A great deal can be accomplished to further this work, since the 
Federal Government has placed Urban Home Demonstration Agents 
in most of our larger cities. Already both Urban and County Home 
Demonstration Agents in this state have started such a movement. 

During the past year valuable instruction in food conservation has 
been given and good results have been accomplished through the serv- 
ing of the school lunch. Schools serving lunches signed the Food 
Pledge Card, and displayed the Window Card and Food Conservation 
Posters. 

The following table compares the results of the three years' work: 





VE.. 




1915-16 


1916-17 


1917-18 


Number of counties semng school lunches (Ohio has 88 counties) .... 


19 

14 

23 
20 
10 

53 


47 
35 
36 
31 
13 

82 


64 
67 




48 




S3 


Number of country nonnal schools reporting work accomplished 


12 
10 


Total number of schools serving school lunches 


123 



From the results of our work in this state for the past three years, it 
has been proved that the plan is workable, and its value to the school 
and community has been established. For the small rural school and 
even the larger school (unless given Federal aid through the Smith- 
Hughes Law), this is the only kind of home economics work, with the 
exception of Girls' Club work, that can be beneficially and successfully 
carried on. 



1918] TEACHING THE BUDGET TO CHILDREN 495 

TEACHING THE BUDGET TO CHH^DREN 

HELEN C. GOODSPEED 

Supemisor of Home Economics, State Dcpt. of Public Instruction, Wisconsin 

The following material consists of two lesson plans and a dramatic 
exercise inspired by the folder "Learning How to Save" which was 
contributed by a group of home economics workers. The National 
War Savings Committee, United States Treasury Department, will send 
copies on application. The first lesson is on Children's Budgets and 
Personal Accounts, the second on the Household Budget and Household 
Accounts; the dramatic exercise also presents the household budget. 

These plans may be suggestive to those teachers who have found 
the budget hard to present to the immature student. The subject 
matter in Lesson I is adapted to the seventh grade and that in Lesson 
I and II may be used in the eighth grade and in high school. 

The dramatic exercise "Our Budget" which follows the lesson plans 
illustrates one way of popularizing the idea of the household budget 
and suggests possibilities of dramatization of household arts subjects. 
Both the lesson plans and the exercise have been used successfully. 

Lesson I. Pl.\n for Children's Budget and Personal Accounts 

Teacher's Aim: To encourage personal and patriotic thrift by means of 
War Savings Stamps. To show how, even with a small allowance each week, 
some pennies may be saved. 

Points to he taught Method of Presentation 

Teacher tells: — I have in mind a 
Uttle girl named Nancy Martin who 
receives 25 cents a week to spend. 
One day I asked her to tell me how 
she had spent her money for the week 
previous. She was unable to tell me. 
She knew she had bought some candy 
and gone to the movies, but aside 
from that she could not account for 
it. 



496 



THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS 



[November 



Points to be taught 

Why Nancy will not be able to 
handle money wisely when she grows 
up. 

1. She is developing careless habits 

of handling money. 

2. She is not developing the habit 

of saving. 
Why the good business man knows 
for what he has spent money. 
1. He keeps an account. 



Why Nancy was ashamed of items 

1. All for herself. 

2. All for something of no lasting 

value. 

3. Nothing saved. 

4. Not patriotic to eat so much 

candy. 
How Nancy might change the 
items so that she would not be 
ashamed of them. 

1. School supplies 05 

2. Self 10 

3. Church 05 



Method of Presentation 

Do you think that when Nancy 
grows up she wUl be able to spend 
money wisely? 

Supposing I asked a good business 
man to account for the money that 
he had handled during a week. 
Would he have any way of telling 
definitely for what his money had 
been spent? 

I told Nancy to keep an account 
for a week and at the end of the week 
she brought me her note book. As 
I took the book I said, "Well, Nancy, 
I hope you showed good judgment in 
spending." 

Nancy seemed to be ashamed of 
her items. Teacher writes on board. 

Nancy's Account 

Amount received Amount spent 

From parents Mon., Candy $0. 10 

$0.25 Wed., Game .10 

Fri., Candy .05 

Can you tell why Nancy was 
ashamed of these items? 

How could Nancy have changed 
those items so that she would not be 
ashamed of them the next week? 



What we call the young man who 
can but won't go to war. Slacker. 

Pennies that could work for Uncle 
Sam, but don't. Slacker pennies. 

How lend S.05 to Uncle Sam? 
Save it toward buying a Thrift Stamp. 

First step in house-building. Plan. 



What is the young man called who 
is able to go to war but yet hangs 
back? 

Then what might we call pennies 
which we could lend for war work, 
but which we often do spend for 
extra self gratification? 

Nancy has $.05 left. How can she 
lend that to Uncle Sam? 

If you were thinking of building a 
house, how would you begin? 



1918] 



TEACHING THE BUDGET TO CHILDREN 



497 



Points to be taught 

WTiat you need before cutting a 
dress. Pattern. 

The spender of money needs 

1. Plan for spending, or a Budget. 



Method of presentation 

If you were going to make a dress, 
what would you do before you begin 
to cut it? 

What does anyone who handles 
money need before spending it? 
Teacher tells. 

Just as a plan for building is made 
before the construction work begins, 
so a plan for spending is made before 
one begins to spend. 

I am going to show you a plan that 
both you and Nancy could use. 

Teacher explains and illustrates 
with board. 



Budget or money plan for week 



I EXPECT TO RECEIVE 


I EXPECT TO SAVE 


I EXPECT TO 


.PENO 




On hand 

From earnings .... 

From gifts 

From parents 


SO. 25 


For 

W. S. S $0.05 

For 

For 


For 

School 

Self 

Church 




$0.05 
.10 
.05 


Total 


$0.25 


$0.05 


$0.20 



Expense account 



BALANCE ON HAND 



Monday . . . . 
Tuesday . . . . 
Wednesday . 
Thursday. . . 

Friday 

Saturday. . . 
Sunday 



Total. 



.00 



$0.25 



RECEIVED 

FROM 
PARENTS 



$0.05 
.05 
.05 



.05 



SO. 20 



Pad 

Red Cruss 
Candy 



$0.05 



SO. 05 



Students are asked to copy the above fomis to keep accounts for a v.eek and repo.<"t. 



498 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [November 

Lesson II. The Household Budget and Accounts 

Teacher's Aim: To show the children how a household budget will help the 
family to buy W. S. S. 



Points to he taught 

How to live within our means — 

1. Budget 

2. Learning to spend wisely. 

A budget is a plan for spending 
money. 

Before making plan 

\. Know how much you have to 

spend. 
2. Know for what it must be 

spent. 



Method of Presentation 

How many made a budget and 
kept accounts last week? 

Discussion of results follow. 

Teacher tells : — Nancy Martin tried 
the budget and accounts for a week 
just as you did. One evening Mr. 
Martin was particularly disturbed at 
the size of the grocery bills. Mrs. 
Martin declared that she had no idea 
they were getting so enormous. 
Then Mr. IMartin said, "Why don't 
you try Nancy's budget scheme, and 
then you'll know at the beginning 
just how much you can spend for 
groceries and we'll try to live within 
it." Mrs. Martin replied, "Well, I 
suppose I could keep accounts." 

But supposing she had been keep- 
ing accounts. Would just that have 
reduced the size of those grocery 
bills? Would accounts alone Kelp 
her to live within her means? What 
would? 

What is a budget? 

What is the first thing you must 
know before making a plan for 
spending? Second thing? 

Mr. Martui told Mrs. Martin that 
they had exactly $1200 per year to 
cover all the living expenses of their 
family, — Mr. and Mrs. Martin and 
three children. 



1918] 



TEACHING THE BUDGET TO CHILDREN 



499 



Points to be taught 

Items in the Martin's living ex- 
penses — Food, Clothing, Rent or 
taxes. Amusement, Fuel (heat, light), 
Furnishings, Wages, Insurance and 
sa\dngs. Health, School, Church and 
charity, Carfare. 

Items grouped — Food, Rent, Cloth- 
ing, Running expenses. Sundries — 
including savings. 

Most expensive item — Food. Why? 

1. We are not only supplying our 

own country and our own sol- 
diers with food but also have 
been sending to the Allies. 

2. We have had to provide for food 

sunk in transportation. Hence 
food is scarce and high. 
Division of income before war. 
Food, \; Rent, \; Clothing, t; 

Running e.xpenses, r; Sundries, \. 
Money spent for food: 

Per year S400.00 

Permonth 33.00 

Per week 8 . 33 

Increase in cost of food — Almost 

doubled. 

Rents have increased but may still 

be considered \. 

To increase food allowance deduct 

from: Clothmg; Sundries. 

Result of survey made in a public 

school in New York City. 

Present division of SI 200 income 

Food S40 per month 

Clothing S20 per month 

Rent $20 per month 

Sundries $10 per month 

Running 
expenses SIO per month 



Method of Presentation 

WTiat are some of the things that 
a family like this v.-ill spend money 
for? 

Let us group these items under 
five main heads. 

Which item in this group requires 
the most money today? Why? 

Teacher tells. 

According to this division with an 
income of S1200 how much could the 
Martins spend for food each year? 
Per month? Per week? 

Could a family of five be fed on 
S8.33 a week now? At what rate 
has the cost of food increased? 

Teacher tells. 

Have rents increased as much as 
food? 



If the Martins are now spending 
about one-half of their income for 
food instead of one-third as formerly 
from which of these groups should 
they plan to take the extra money? 

Teacher tells. 



500 



THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS 



[November 



Points to he taught 



Method of Presentation 



How cut dowTi on clothing 

1. It is bad taste to be extrava- 

gant in clothing. 
Use standard styles. 
Wear simple clothes. 

2. More clothes may be made at 

home. Old clothes may be 
made over. 

3. More attention to repair and 

daily care of clothes. 

Items which must be guarded — 
Savings. 

How saving for themselves will 
help Uncle Sam. — Buy War Saving 
Stamps. 

Why it is easy to save by means of 

w. s. s. 

1. They can save in small amounts. 

2. It is convenient to get the 

stamps. 

3. Even the children can save for 

thrift stamps. 

4. They will get back more than 

they put in. 



What will help the Martins to cut 
down on clothing? 

Similarly discuss economy in house- 
keeping items like fuel, wages, per- 
sonal gratifications, etc. 

If the Martins are looking forward 
to educating their children, which 
items especially will they need to 
guard? 

How can the Martins save for their 
ovm future and at the same time help 
Uncle Sam? 

How do W. S. S. make it easy for 
the Martins to save? 

Teacher explains the system of 
W. S. S. 

Now I will show the chart that 
Mrs. Martin is using for her house- 
hold expenses. 

Teacher outlines on board a form 
to be used for the household budget 
and accounts. The students are urged 
to copy these charts and explain them 
to their parents and report. 



Week beginning 

On hand at beginning of week . 
Recei\ed 



Household Accounts 
Name . . . 



Total. 



Budget planned: 

For food 

Rent 

Clothing 

Running Expenses. . . . 
Sundries and Savings 
Total 



1918] 



TEACHING THE BUDGET TO CHILDREN 

How money was spent 



501 



n»ST DAY 


SECOND DAY 


THUD DAY 


Article 


Cost 


Article Cost 


Article 


Co.t 



















































FOURTH DAY 


7IFTH DAT 


SIXTH DAY 


SEV31NTH DAY 


Article 


Cost 


Article 


Cost 


Article 


Cost 


Article 


Cost 



































































WEEKLY FOOD EXPENSES 


TOTAL WEEKLY EXPENSES 


For- 


Amount 


Foi- 


Amount 




% 




« 




Rent 














Clothing 









































Summary 



Money on hand at beginning of 

week 

Total received during week 

Total money for use 

Total money spent 

Balance on hand for next week. . . . 



W. S. S. Record. 

Owned, beginning of week . 

Bought during week 

Owned, at end of week. . . . 



Dramatic Exercise — "Our Budget" 

The exercise requires 11 girls. One girl represents the income ("$100 per 
month") and recites the first and last verses. Each of the remaining ten 
girls represents a ten dollar bill. Four girls represent the expenditure for 
food; two girls clothes; two girls rent; one represents running expenses and 
one sundries. 



302 



THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS 



[November 



One girl in each group recites the appropriate verse and carries the poster, 
which indicates the amount which must be set aside for that item. The back 
of the posters may be decorated with flags, and the girls who do not carry 
posters may carry flags. When the income girl says "Uncle Sam" in her 
last speech, posters may be turned about and flags flourished for emphasis on 
the patriotic lesson involved. 

The income figure and the amounts set aside for the different items may 
be changed to suit any community. 



Income: $100 per month 

For a family of five 
I'm the average income, 
In these hard times 
That's a very small sum, 
So I must be divided 
To the very last cent. 
Among food, clothing, running ex- 
penses. 
Sundries, and rent. 

Each one of the girls, 
Whom soon you shall see, 
Represents ten dollars 
Or one-tenth of me. 

$40 

Now put us aside. 
For food we must go, 
I know it is high 
The war makes it so. 

$20 

For clothes, two tens 
Is all we can spare. 
That means we must clean, 
And press, and repair. 



$20 

We're the two tens 
That are needed 
To pay for the rent. 
Think of us when you plan 
How your money must be spent. 

SIO 

For running expenses 
Like heat and light, 
One ten must be allowed 
To come out right. 

$10 

I am for sundries. 
Such as carfare and recreation 
Also War Savings Stamps, 
Buy more and help the nation. 

Income: $100 per month 

When you figure and plan, 
And sacrifice and divide 
Into these four items, 
And savings beside, 
You are lined up with Uncle Sam, 
You have helped to win the war. 
Now won't you make a budget, 
If you never have before? 



1918] JELLY MAKING WITH SUGAR SAVERS 503 



JELLY MAKING WITH SUGAR SAVERS 

LUCILE WHEELER ADAMS AND ETHEL LOFLIN 
Experimental Kitchen, United States Food Administration 

The scarcity of sugar was felt most keenly at the very time when the 
housekeeper needed it for canning and preserving the ripening fruits. 
Sugar savers were sought to supplement the small allowance of sugar. 
Canning without sugar and drying were possible, but for the jams, but- 
ters, and jellies, sugar was wanted. The various sweeteners such as 
honey, cane sirup, glucose, corn sirup, sorghum lent themselves to pre- 
serA^es of all kinds without much questioning on the part of the house- 
keeper while successful results in jelly making were more uncertain. 
Although jelly making is not generally considered an economical 
method of saving fruit and sugar since it uses only the juice of the fruit 
and larger proportions of sweetener than the other fruit preparations, 
it may be of interest to give some of the results obtained in experiments 
with various sweetening agents. They may be of help to those making 
small amounts of jelly with one e.xtraction of juice and using the fruit 
pulp in butters or jams. The work is not considered complete but is 
offered only as a suggestion to those not having time to try the various 
substitutes' themselves and to others for comparison with results ob- 
tained in their laboratories. 

EXPERIMENTAL WORK 

The experiments were with apple juice which was taken as a basis for 
the work. The same variety of apples and the same concentration of 
juice were used throughout the work. All materials were weighed. 

Method of extractions. Hard green apples were used. They were 
washed and sliced. One and one-half pints of water were added to each 
quart of apple and the fruit cooked until it was soft, then strained 
through a jelly bag. One quart of fruit gave a yield of about one pint 
of juice. 

I. A series of experiments was carried out to show the yield of jelly 
when varying amounts of sugar were used, also to show variations in 
texture and determine what basis should be used when substituting 
other sweeteners for sugar. 

' Although the sugar shortage is over for the present it is quite possible that later we 
may need to return to the use of these substitutes to some extent. — Editok. 



504 



THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS 



[November 



Sugar used with one cup of juke 















HCUBEB 


snoAR 


ATDEE 


lUATE 
YIELD 


REMAUES 




cups 


grama 


del. C. 


CC. 




1 






101 


30 


Thick. Sirup rather than jelly 


2 




50 


102 


85 


Dark, tough and rather leathery. Ratio sugar to 
>aeld 1.7 


3 




100 


102 


135 


Much better texture and color lighter. Ratio sugar 
to yield 1.35 


4 




150 


102 


205 


Color lighter and very tender. Ratio sugar to yield 
1.36 


5 




200 


102 


280 


Color about the same as for No. 4 — very tender. 
Ratio sugar to yield 1.4 



The results merely confirmed facts already known, namely, that in- 
creasing the sugar increases the yield, and up to a certain point improves 
the texture and color of the jelly. The increase in sugar was not car- 
ried to the point of affecting the Jellying properties to the extent that a 
sirupy product resulted. 

The basis, 1 cup of sugar to 1 cup of juice, was considered to give too 
sweet a product for either normal or wartimes, f cup of sugar was prob- 
ably the best from all standpoints of yield, texture, flavor, and econ- 
omy, while the § cup of sugar basis was advocated for all instances where 
the saving of the greatest amount of fruit was desired and the scarcity 
of sugar was a strongly felt factor. 

The sugar savers, sorghum, honey, corn sirup, and commercial glucose 
are much heavier than the same measure of sugar. In substituting for 
sugar it seemed best to substitute on the basis of total sohds contained 
in the sweetener rather than substitute the amount necessary to give 
equivalent sweetness. This keeps the ratio between juice and added 
solids more nearly equal to the ratio between juice and sugar. It also 
is desired as meaning greater economy. If the substitution is done on 
this basis, the sugar is replaced by only a slightly greater weight of sirup 
whereas if one cup of sugar, approximately 8 ounces, is replaced by the 
amount of corn sirup, for example, required to give equivalent sweetness 
it means using 18 ounces or more. In estimating the measure of sugar 
saver to use, it is found 0.75 cup glucose, 0.78 cup com sirup, 0.79 cup 
honey, 0.85 cup sorghum contain total soUds equivalent to one cup of 
sugar. With the exception of sorghum this is approximately f cup of 
the material. This is the measure used in all of the experiments. Honey 
substituted on this basis gives a product equivalent to a sugar product 
in sweetness while com sirup and glucose gives one less sweet. 



1918] 



JELLY MAKING WITH SUGAR SAVERS 



505 



If it is desired to replace 1 cup of sugar (200 grams) by commercial 
glucose, 250 grams or f cup is used. 

If I cup of sugar (100 grams) is used to 1 cup of juice and 50 per cent 
substitution is made, 50 grams of sugar and 62.5 grams of glucose (| 
of 250) are used. 

If 75 per cent substitution is made, 25 grams of sugar and 94 grams 
of glucose (f of 250) are used. 

If 100 per cent substitution is made 125 grams of glucose (^ of 250) 
are used. 

Sugar-saver equivalent of 1 cup of sugar 



Grams 



Cups 



Sorghum. .. 

Honey 

Comsirup. . 

Glucose 

Comsugar. 
Sugar 



30* 
25* 
22. t 
19. 5t 



335 
337 
332 
332 
200 
200 



234 
252 
259 
265 
200 
200 



285 

266 

258 

250t 

200 

200 



0.85 

0.79 

0.78 

0.7S§ 

1.00 



* Maximum water content allowed in "Standard of Purity of Food Products," Circular 
No. 19. 

t Figure^ obtained from analyses. 
Weight of 1 cup of sugar 



Weight of solids in 1 cup of sugar saver 
§ 332 X 0.75+ = 250. 



200 
265 



0.75. 



II. Glucose was substituted for sugar in amounts ranging from 50 
per cent to 100 per cent on three pre-war bases: (a) | cup sugar to 1 
cup of juice, (b) | cup sugar to 1 cup of juice, (c) 1 cup sugar to 1 cup of 
juice. 

Glitcose used as substitute 



AUODNT 
OF SUB- 

STrruTE 



SDGAR SA\'ER 



(a) Basis \ cup sugar to 1 cup juice 



per cent 


grams 


cups 




grams 


cups 


deg. C. 


SO 


50 


i 


Glucose 


62.5 


i 


102 


75 


25 


i 


Glucose 


94 


i_ 


102 


100 






Glucose 


125 


I 


102 



Good, — not so tender as jellies with 

more sweetening 
Good, — not so sweet as above but 

very acceptable 
Good texture but a little more firm 

than above, — not sweet enough 



506 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [November 

(b) Basis f cup sugar to 1 cup juice 

Good, — sweet enough, quivers, — ■ 
stiff enough 

Sweet, less than one above. Ten- 
der, darker than above, — too 
stiff 

Not sweet enough and slightly 
tough 

(c) Basis 1 cup sugar to 1 cup juice 

Not stiff enough, — too sweet, — 
does not hold shape. Lighter 
color, — better than f cup. 

Quivers beautifully, — color just 
about the same. Too sweet 

Quivers, but stiffer. Color slightly 
darker than above. Too sweet 



50 


75 


1 


Glucose 


94.0 


i_ 


102 


75 


38 


i 


Glucose 


130.5 


f 


102 


100 






Glucose 


187.5 


1 


102 



SO 


100 


h 


Glucose 


125.0 


1 


102 


75 


50 


1 


Glucose 


187.5 


f 


102 


00 






Glucose 


250.0 


1 


102 



■■ III. Honey was substituted for sugar as in the preceding experiment 
with glucose. 

Honey used as substilule 



AMOUNT 
or SUB- 
STITUTE 



SUGAS SAVER 



(a) Basis i cup sugar to 1 cup juice 



per cent 

so 


trams 

SO 


cups 

i 


Honey 


irams 

62.5 


cuts 

J 


dtg. C. 
103 


75 


25 


i 


Honey 


94.0 


1_ 


103 


100 






Honey 


125.0 


i 


104 



Good, — ver>' sHght honey flavor 

Texture good 
Honey more pronounced, — very 

sweet 
Honey strong. Texture better than 

100 per cent glucose. Sweet 

enough 



(b) Basis | cup sugar to 1 cup juice 



SO 


75 


1 


Honey 


94.0 


i_ 


104 


75 


38 


i 


Honey 


130.5 


? 


104 


100 






Honey 


187.5 


1 





Stiff at 104°. Darker than glucose 
in color, — cuts well, and holds its 
faces, — Savor slight of honey, — 
not noticeable 

Jelly rather firm. Darker and 
flavor of honey stronger. Sweet 
enough 

Honey strong. Color darker, and 
texture firm 



1918] 



JELLY MAKING WITH SUGAR SAVERS 
(c) Basis 1 cup sugar to 1 cup juice 



507 



50 


100 


b 


Honey 


125.0 


f 


104 


75 


50 


i 


Honey 


187.5 


i: 


104 


00 






Honey 


250.0 


J 


104 



Honey noticeable, — too sweet, — 

more tender, nice and quivery 
Quiver good, — ver>- strong of honey 

— color about same, too stiff (?), 

too sweet 
Color darker and texture more firm, 

honey flavor strong. Too sweet 



IV. Since it is sugar which must be used sparingly and not fruit, it is 
probably preferable to secure a less sweet jelly having more of the fruit 
flavor. It was also thought that more often the error lies in the addition 
of too much sugar to fruit juice, because the fruit juice is less concen- 
trated as used by many housekeepers. 

For this reason, when sorghum and corn sugar were used, the entire 
series of experiments was not repeated and the substitution was done 
on the basis of f cup of sugar to 1 cup of juice. 



Sorghum used as subslHute 
Basis \ cup sugar to 1 cup juice 

















or suB- 
sirrniE 


aCCAB 


SUGAR SAVEE 




AinXE 


EEUAUKS 


ferctnt 


travM 


cufa 




trams 


cuts 


det. C. 




25 


75 


\ 


Sorghum 


31.0 


A 


103 


Good, — no flavor of sorghum 


50 


50 


1 


Sorghum 


62.5 


i 


103 


Flavor of sorghum not distin- 
guished. Texture slightly 
tough 


75 


25 


i 


Sorghum 


94.0 


i- 


104 


Color much darker, — flavor not 
objectionable but fruit flavor 
concealed 


100 






Sorghum 


125.0 


i 


104 


Much darker, slightly tougher, 
flavor of fruit concealed, but 
one would hardly recognize 
presence of sorghum. The jel- 
ly point rises with the increase 
in sorghum 



Individuals tasting the jelly made with sorghum alone could not tell 
what caused the flavor, that is, the sorghum flavor was not pronounced 
while the delicate flavor of the apple was masked. It was called by some 
^a "commercial jelly" because it was as nondescript as many of those 
on the market. This would vary, of course, with fruits of more pro- 
nounced flavor. 



508 



THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [November 



Probably with sorghum only 50 per cent substitution should be ad- 
vocated for jelly making. 

V. Corn sugar. Corn sugar was substituted for sugar on the basis 
of weight for weight. 

Corn sugar used as substitute 
Basis I cup sugar to 1 cup juice 



AMOUNT 
OP SUB- 
STITUTE 


SUGAR 


SUGAR SAVER 


TEMPER- 
ATURE 


REUARES 


percent 


trams 


cups 




grams 


cups 


del. C. 




50 


50 


1 


Com sugar 


50.0 


J 


104 


Color darker, but flavor and tex- 
ture good 


75 


25 


i 


Com sugar 


75.0 


f 


104 


Color still darker but no notice- 
able flavor due to com sugar 


100 






Corn sugar 


100 


h 


104 


Color darker. Bitter objection- 
able flavor 



VI. Grape jelly, replacing 50 per cent of the sugar by sortie other sweetener 
(1) Basis i cup sugar to 1 cup juice 



AMOUNT 
OF SUB- 
STITUTE 


SUGAR 


SUGAR SAVER 




TEMPER- 
ATURE 


REMARES 


per cent 


grams 


cups 




grams 


cups 


det. C. 




50 
50 


100 
50 
50 


i 

1 
1 


Honey 
Glucose 


62.5 
62.5 


i 

i 


103 
103 
102 


Good — very strong of grape, tex- 
ture very tender. Very dark 

Very good texture — color very 
dark — slight flavor of honey 

Good — clearer than with honey 
or sorghum — about the same 
as all sugar but not so sweet 


50 


50 


1 


Sorghum 


62.5 


i 


103 


Very good — no taste of sorghum 
— color darker 



Grape and apple jelly, replacing 50 per cent of the sugar by some other sweetener 
(1) Basis J cup sugar to 1 cup juice (J apple, J grape) 



50 


50 


1 


Honey 


62.5 


J 


103 


Very good, tender, color better, 
and held shape better than all 
grape 


50 


50 


1 


Glucose 


62.5 


i 


102 


Very good,— about the same as 
above but not quite so sweet 


50 


30 


i 


Sorghum 


62.5 


I 


103 


Good, — no apparent change due 














to sorghum,— no strong flavor. 














Texture good 



1918] 



JELLY MAKING WITH SUGAR SAVERS 



509 



VII. Cranberry and apple jelly 
Basis 50 per cent substitution with various proportions of sugar to juice 



PEOPOE- 




























SnCAE 
TO 


SDGAE 


COENSIECP 


ATCEE 


REMAEKS 


JDICE 
















pams 


cups 


grams 


cups 


dec C. 




i:l 


50 


1 


625 


\ 


103 


Jelly fairly firm, retains shape. Color good, 
flavor good 


1:1 


75 


1 


94 


\ 


103 


Not quite firm enough for high mold. Color 
good. Flavor better than other 


1:1 


100 


i 


125 


f 


103 


Too soft to hold. After longer standing would 
have been firm enough. Too sweet. Color 
good. Probably higher temperature better 



I. Honey, glucose, light corn sirup and dark corn sirup,, sorghum, 
or corn sugar may be used in jelly to replace part or all of the sugar. A 
statement often made that long boihng of cane sugar with fruit juice 
brings about inversion of the sugar and interferes with the texture of 
the product has had too much stress put upon it, since the use of 100 
per cent glucose and 100 per cent honey as sweetening agents (meaning 
the addition of large amounts of simple sugars) has not prevented a 
satisfacory jelly being obtained. 

II. As the proportion of sweetener increases the yield is increased 
and the jelly becomes more tender. 

III. WTiere all of the sugar is replaced by other sweeteners, the product 
is darker in color and the texture is slightly less tender. The yield 
varies with the different fruits but is always equal to or greater than 
for sugar. 

IV. The jelling point of the various sweeteners varies, glucose having 
the lowest jelHng point and honey the highest. 

V. Glucose and corn sirup change the flavor of the fruit little or none; 
50 per cent honey is just barely perceptible and combines well with 
most fruit flavors. More than 50 per cent gives a distinct honey flavor 
(which is acceptable and desired by many people). The other sweet- 
eners modify the fruit flavor very slightly and in combining with a strong 
flavored fruit are not noticed. 

VI. The sweetening power of the various sirups varies, glucose and 
com sirup having the least and honey the greatest. However, all of 
them produce a very acceptable jelly. 



510 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [November 

VII. The substitution which is recommended for the majority of cases 
is 50 per cent, although with apple juice of rather high sugar content 
75 per cent is satisfactory. Fifty per cent substitution gives a sweet 
product of good texture and color without the characteristic flavor of 
the sweetener being pronounced or objectionable. 



THE FOOD OF PRISONERS OF WAR 

When a soldier of the United States Army is reported "missing in 
action," it may mean anything — that he was killed; that he was se- 
verely wounded; that identification was for the time impossible; or that 
he was taken prisoner. 

As soon as a man in reported missing the Bureau of Communication 
of the American Red Cross starts an inquiry, through the International 
Red Cross in Geneva, to locate him, and, if he is alive, establishes com- 
mimication between him and his people. If the man is a prisoner of 
war in a German stockade, all activities pertaining to him are carried 
on through the Bureau of Prisoners' Relief that is closely alHed with 
the Bureau of Communication. Together they are bringing much 
consolation to prisoners and their famiUes and friends alike. 

The Bureau of Prisoners' Relief concerns itself with supplying Ameri- 
can prisoners with food and clothing, with the forwarding of money 
and mail to the prisoners, and correspondence with families of prisoners. 
As soon as the prisoner is located the American Red Cross begins its 
service to him. Lists of American prisoners in Germany are eventually 
given out by the German government and these are sent by the Spanish 
Ambassador in Berlin to the American Minister in Berne, but the Inter- 
national Red Cross is generally able, with the assistance of the German 
Red Cross, to secure the names some days, and often weeks, in advance 
of the official lists, and the various belligerent governments accept 
these Red Cross lists as official. The Germans often permit prisoners to 
send cards to their families announcing that they have been captured. 
When the prisoners reach permanent camps the Prisoners' Help Com- 
mittee, composed of .^\merican prisoners, is permitted to send a postal 
card to the American Red Cross in Berne so that the regular food 3up- 



1918] FOOD OF PRISONERS OF WAR 511 

plies may be sent without delay. Just as soon as names reach either 
the International Red Cross at Geneva, or the American Red Cross at 
Berne, or the British Red Cross in London (as sometimes happens 
when Americans have been serving with English or Canadian troops), 
they are cabled to the American Red Cross in Washington. 

The Bureau of Communication then transmits the names officially to the 
State, and the War or Navy Departments, notifies families by telegraph, 
and follows this telegram with a letter, giving whatever further informa- 
tion may be known, such as the name of the prison camp and the con- 
dition of the man. It also explains in a few words the purpose of the 
Bureau of Prisoners' ReUef, and directs that all further communication 
be sent to that Bureau. 

In Berne, Switzerland, the American Red Cross maintains a warehouse 
stocked with food and clothing for American prisoners by the American 
Red Cross and by the Quartermaster General's Department of the 
United States Army and Navy. Another warehouse is maintained at 
Rennes and a reserve warehouse in Copenhagen. In the Berne ware- 
house, alone, at the present time there is sufficient food, clothing, and 
comforts to supply 10,000 American War prisoners for a period of six 
months. 

Everj' week a twenty pound parcel of food is sent to each American 
prisoner in a German camp. The War Department supplies new uni- 
forms and necessary clothing for the soldiers, but, in the case of officers 
it has not been able to do so and in order to supply the need, the American 
Red Cross purchased a tailor shop in Paris and is sending new uniforms 
to the imprisoned American officers at the rate of twelve a week. 

Each 20-pound parcel contains about the articles of food given below, 
with some variation from week to week, while extras, such as hard candy, 
eating chocolate, and so on, are added from time to time. During the 
four weeks there is sent: corned beef, 8 pounds; roast beef, 6 pounds; 
salmon, 6 pounds; corned beef hash, 8 pounds; pork and beans, 12 tins; 
dried beans, 2 pounds; corn, 4 pounds; peas, 4 pounds; tomatoes, 4 
pounds; hard bread, 20 pounds; rice, 2 pounds; evaporated milk, 1 
quart; butter, 1 pound; sugar, granulated, 4 pounds; coffee, 2 pounds; 
cocoa, i pound; jam, 2 pounds; prunes, 2 pounds; raisins or figs, 1 pound; 
table salt, 1 pound; pepper, J pound; vinegar, 1 pint; chocolate or 
candy, 1 pound; soap, 2 bars; cigarettes (or equivalent in tobacco) 400. 

Tobacco is sent all prisoners, and luxuries such as jam, chocolate, 
hard candy and chewing gum, as well as soap, razors, toilet articles, 



512 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [November 

towels, tooth paste, and other necessities. Magazines and other peri- 
odicals, published prior to America's entrance into the war, are also 
supplied, but newspapers are barred as well as current literature. These 
parcels, with the exception of a negligible percentage, are acknowledged 
by the prisoners, a self addressed card for this purpose being enclosed 
with each food parcel. With the first parcel sent, the prisoner is asked, 
in addition to sending the receipt card, to report the size of his shoes, 
hat, coat, trousers, shirts, gloves, underwear, pajamas, so that he can 
be supplied with clothing that will fit him. If any signature acknowl- 
edging the receipt of the parcels looks suspicious, the original card is 
immediately sent to the Bureau of Prisoners' Relief at the Headquarters 
in Washington to be identified by the soldier's relatives or friends. 
Frequent tests of signatures, however, show that the shipments are 
reaching their destinations and that the prisoners are enjoying the 
contents. 

A special ration approved by the Secretary of War is sent to the sick 
and invalid prisoners. This includes: Potted chicken, 2 ounces, with 
alternates of potted veal or beef, dried beef, beef tongue, canned salmon, 
dried eggs, or American cheese. Potatoes, dehydrated, H ounces, or 
rice, macaroni, or hominy grits. Crackers, 8 ounces, or zwiebach. 
Oleomargarine, 1 ounce, or nut margarine or peanut butter. Soup, 
compressed, 1 1 ounces. Spinach, dehydrated, \ ounce, or tomato. 
Oatmeal, I ounce, or farina or barley. Sugar, 2 ounces, or in place of 
not more than half of it, corn syrup or honey. Milk powder, 2 ounces, 
or fresh milk or malted milk powder. Prepared cornstarch pudding, | 
ounce, or tapioca or sago pudding or gelatine preparations. Dried 
apples, 1 ounce, or apricots, prunes, peaches, figs, dates, or fresh fruit, 
or jam and maimalade. Chocolate, sweet, 1 ounce, or cocoa. Beef 
extract or bouillon cubes, ^ ounce. Coffee (soluble) | ounce, or tea. 
Bran, tu ounce, or agar agar. • Salt, tV ounce. Pepper, ttt ounce. 
(The amounts given are for the daily supply. The amounts of the al- 
ternates are somewhat different in several cases, but calculated to give 
the same food value.) 

All the food and clothing, — everything, in fact, that is given to the 
Americans in German prison camps is purchased in the United States 
and shipped overseas. 



FOR THE HOMEMAKER 

THE PRESENT FOOD SITUATION 

Extracts from Mr. Hoover's Address to the Federal 
State Food Administrators, November 12, 1918 

We have now to consider a new world situation in food. We have to 
frankly survey Europe, a Europe of which a large part is either in 
ruins or in social conflagration; a Europe with degenerated soils and 
depleted herds; a Europe with the whole of its population on rations or 
varying degrees of privation and large numbers who have been under 
the German heel actually starving. We have also to survey the situa- 
tion in the exporting nations of the world, to see what can be done to 
redeem this mass of humanity back to health and to social order. Within 
thirty or sixty days the world should begin to release cargo ships from 
military duty and to send them further afield for food, and before the 
next harvest arrives the entire world's food supply should be accessible. 
On the other hand, the cessation of hostihties will create an enormously 
increased demand for food. We have computed the export countries' 
supphes on the basis of the avoidance of waste and we have assumed 
for the importing countries stringent war consumptions with additions 
such as we consider will preserve health and order. In these circum- 
stances we make the world's balance sheet in the different great groups 
of commodities approximately as follows until next harvest. It must 
be remembered that all such calculations are based upon assumptions 
as to transportation, production, and consumption which may be sub- 
ject to great disturbance and distortion during the reconstruction 
period, but for the present we can accept these conclusions. 

Wheat and Rye: Sufficient supplies with economy in consumption. 

High Protein Feeds (for dairy animals) : A shortage of about 3,000,000 
tons. 

Other Feeds: Sufficient supplies with economy in consumption. 

Beans, Pease and Rice: Sufficient supplies with economy in con- 
sumption. 

513 



514 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [November 

Pork Products, Dairy Products, Vegetable Oils: A shortage of about 
three billion pounds. 

Beef: Sufficient supplies to load all refrigerating ships' capacity. 

Sugar: Sufficient supplies for our normal consumption if other 
nations retain their present short rations. A shortage if they increase 
their rations. 

Cojee: A surplus. 

Of all these foods, except possibly protein feeds, we have a sufficiency 
for our own people and in many of them, large surpluses. Of the 
world total we are estimating that North America will furnish rather 
more than 60 per cent and that the United States, including the West 
Indies, will need to supply about 20,000,000 tons of food of all kinds 
for export against our pre-European war exports of say 6,000,000 tons. 

It can be done. Even in Belgium where the supplies of the Relief 
Commission have been the only resource, the health of the population 
has been maintained; the death rate shows it. We have larger re- 
sources, a more varied diet; it will not be necessary for us to depend on 
a daily dole of stinted rations. But it is necessary to make every ounce 
of food count, every morsel contribute its last bit of nourishment. 

The shipment cannot be made by shifting from one food to the other. 
All food must be saved. The surplus cannot be created by eating corn 
instead of wheat; the corn also is needed — we cannot dip very much 
into the supply of feed for animals, because it is in the same boat with 
bread grains. 

Relying on food supplies out of the ordinary will help some, but it 
will not solve the problem. Rabbit stew, eggs, oysters, nuts and 
raisins, used instead of meat, somewhat increase the general stock, and 
so far the substitution is all to the good. But that will not accom- 
plish the main purpose. 

Calculations show that 95 per cent of our sustenance is from staples. 
We cannot make up the enormous deficit in staples from the fringe of 
food stuffs. The main reliance is always on staples and the main 
saving must be made in staples. 

There is one pohcy which cannot change, and that is the vital necessity 
to simple living, to economy in all consumption, for commodities more 
or less substitute for each other. We must realize that the spectre of 
famine abroad now haunts the abundance of our table at home. 



1918] THE PRESENT FOOD SITUATION 515 

HOME GROWN FOODS 

The Food Administration asked that every dish served in American 
hotels, restaurants, clubs and other public eating places on Thanks- 
gi\-ing Day be made from home-grown products. This is a plan that 
should be followed as far as possible, not only in public eating places 
but in the home, not only for Thanksgiving but for Christmas, and for 
every day between. Even though the heavy demands of war upon our 
transportation have lessened, there is still need for enormous shipments 
of food and other materials, if we are to fulfill our obligations to the 
world. This is one case where to be locally minded is to be inter- 
nationally minded. 



WHEAT BREAD AND THE WORLD'S FOOD 

When Germany laid dow^n her arms, the Inter-Allied Food Council in 
London was discussing the possibihty of diminishing by January 1 the 
percentage of substitutes used in wheat bread in all Allied countries, 
because of the new situation created by the signing of the Austrian 
armistice, and the consequent greater safety of the Mediterranean Sea 
routes, with the increased accessibility of the Indian and Australian 
wheat suppUes. 

All regulations requiring the use of wheat substitutes in baking are 
now suspended and the white loaf may return to its own. But let 
there be no misunderstanding. This does not mean that bread may be 
used freely. The greatest economy must still be exercised. It does 
mean that Indian, Australian, and Argentine wheat are available for 
Europe, and that the "substitutes" we have been using and exporting 
are badly needed for dairy feeds both here and abroad. By using 
wheat in place of these we also set free for animal food more of the bran 
and other wheat "offals" that furnish necessary "high protein" feed 
of which there is a great shortage. 

In withdrawing the substitute regulations, the Food Administration 
emphasizes the necessity for continued conservation of all staple foods. 
This country will be called upon in the coming year to send at least 



516 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [November 

20,000,000 tons of foodstuffs to Europe — practically the limit of loading 
capacity at our ports. 

At the end of October we were told that " the sternest task yet set for 
the people of the United States is the shipment, this crop year, of 17| 
millon tons of food. That means saving — saving hard, saving every 
day and every meal the year around. It means scientific saving in 
each household, that it may be done without impairing the health or 
strength of our people — and all from the stock of food now in hand. 

Now we are asked to add to this an additional 2h million tons. 



FOOD IN FRANCE DURING THE LAST DAYS OF THE 
WAR 

Dr. Vernon Kellogg who has been in France for the Food Administra- 
tion writes, "I have now been in France three weeks, eating in restau- 
rants and hotels of all grades, and I have had butter on the table once, 
and a total of six lumps of sugar. Saccharine is universally used in 
coffee and tea. The small sugar ration is chiefly reserved for cooking." 

Food conditions outside the area under military control, which after 
all is a very small part of France, are very bad. The civilian population 
must pay the same prices for food as the soldiers, or they must go with- 
out. In the industrial centers where almost everyone has been engaged 
in war work, and has received high wages, they can keep up with the 
high cost of living, but in the smaller town and all through the country 
districts the people fare very badly indeed. 

They can no longer afford butter or cheese; and meat is now beyond 
their highest aspirations. Even potatoes, upon which they could de- 
pend in the past, are so high in price, owing to the bad crop this year, 
that many people cannot buy them at all. 

Practically the only food which everybody can afford is bread, for 
the price of bread has been kept low by a Government subsidy. Bread, 
however, is rationed, and the ration is far from sufficient to make up for 
the lack of other foods. Moreover, the fact that bread is rationed, and 
that each person has a card entitling him to 10 ounces a day, does not 



1918J THE PRICE OF SUGAR 517 

mean that when he presents his ticket at the door of the bakery, he is 
sure to receive 10 ounces. In many places last summer, the ticket 
brought in exchange only half the promised quantity — and in other 
places none at all. 

A letter from a traveller through the more remote districts of France 
says, "I have just visited several villages in Auvergne, a mountainous 
district where transport is difficult. In one village there had been no 
bread for three weeks; people were eking out their meagre diet from 
fast failing supphes of potatoes. In another of these villages we found 
bread, but it was very black, had a distinct odor, and was almost 
impossible to swallow. 

"They told me it was made of chestnut flour with some oats and 
barley and a little buckwheat added. That was what they had been 
living on for five weeks." 



THE PRICE OF SUGAR 

The household sugar ration and retail prices in various countries at 
the latest date available on November 1, 1918, show that the United 
States is much better ofif than any other country so far as the amount 
available is concerned, and that only in Germany is the price lower. 
Because Germany produces her own sugar crop, and has made strict 
regulations as to its disbursement, and has been able to use the residues 
in producing fat, she has kept the price to 7 or 8 cents a pound. Her 
ration has been 1.4 to 1.6 pounds. In Austria-Hungary, with a similar 
ration, the price is 21 to 54 cents. In Turkey it is $1.77 to $5.05 a 
pound. 

The retail price in the United States averages 10.5 cents a pound, 
and at present there are 3 to 4 pounds a month available. England 
uses 2 pounds a month at a cost of 14.1 cents a pound; Canada has 2 
pounds a month at 11.2 cents a pound; France has 1.1 pounds, and Italy 
0.7 pounds a month, at a cost respectively of 18.4 to 19.3 and 19.9 to 
35.4 cents a pound. 

Norway and Holland have 2.2 pounds costing 13.3 and 12.9 cents a 
pound; Switzerland uses 1.1 pounds at a price of 15 cents; Argentina 
pays 16.2 cents, and Spain 21 to 26 cents a pound. 



518 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [November 

We have the largest supply in the world. This is not greediness, for 
we have throughout the war asked the AUies to supply themselves first 
and we would do with the remainder. They have sacrificed sugar to 
provide ships for other purposes. If Europe continues on present 
rations, the world supplies, enlarged by Java sugar now available, are 
sufficient so that we can continue our present consumption. If Europe 
raises its ration very considerably, there will be a shortage. 



THE CHICAGO FOOD CONSERVATION BUREAU 

MRS. CHARLES A. MUNROE 

The kitchen is the housewife's trench!! If every woman could 
have realized the importance of intelligent food conservation and the 
fact that the foods the government asked us to use could be made most 
palatable if properly prepared — how great her share in the winning of 
the war ! and in the adjustments for peace ! 

Yet the scientific planning of meals from the dietetic standpoint is 
probably the least interesting subject in the world to the average woman. 

It is trying enough to have to plan three meals a day, day in and 
day out, year in and year out, without having to think of the proper 
balancing of meals, making one's family do without the food they have 
always been accustomed to use, and giving them in its place the poorly 
prepared substitutes they are constantly complaining about. Yet the 
time has come when we all have to become Kitchen Patriots and learn 
how to conserve intelligently and at the same time be properly nourished 
and comparatively comfortable in mind and body. 

Realizing the urgent need for a great central kitchen and demonstra- 
tion station where practical lectures and food demonstrations would 
teach the puzzled housewife how to conserve properly, a number of 
patriotic women, early in May of this year, united on a plan to ac- 
comphsh this end, and sent in writing to Mr. Harry WTieeler, Food 
Administrator for Illinois, to Mrs. Joseph Bowen, Chairman of the 
Women's Committee of the State Council of Defense, and to Miss Isabel 



1918] CHICAGO FOOD CONSERVATION BUREAU 519 

Bevier, Chairman of Conservation for Illinois for the Food Administra- 
tion, a statement of their proposed organization. 

On the 15th of May their plans for a centrally located Bureau, free 
to the public and to be maintained for the duration of the war, were 
accepted and the writer was given the appointment of Conservation 
Chairman. To secure the proper headquarters and an able committee 
of women, were the ne.xt important steps. Everyone interested realized 
the urgent need and necessity of rushing this food conservation organi- 
zation and there was splendid response and cooperation in every 
direction, for this seemed to be the psychological moment to undertake 
this work. 

Mrs. Cyrus Hall McCormick became Honorary Chairman, and a 
large committee of women rallied to our support, giving monthly pledges, 
and donations for the financing of the Bureau, so that the general 
public might have the latest and most accurate information on food 
conservation. Through the kindness of a neighborhood department 
store, the large airy rooms we now occupy at 28 South Wabash Avenue, 
were loaned for the work and almost the entire equipment for every 
department in the store was donated by generous citizens. 

On the first of June the Bureau was formally opened with a repre- 
sentative of the United States Food Administration in charge of the 
Information Desk near the door, where thousands of tested recipes and 
government pamphlets are given away each week. At this information 
desk, there are also two domestic science experts ready to answer 
questions pertaining to the new food problems. 

In order to make more tempting the food conservation dishes and at 
the same time instruct tlie housewife in a very practical way, the model 
kitchen, fully equipped with gas stove, ice-box, and the usual kitchen 
paraphernalia was also installed — and here at 11:00 and 2:00 o'clock 
daily, the lectures and demonstrations by trained women are held. 
Every important food drive of the United States Food Administration 
has been thoroughly explained from this platform. Some of the subjects 
covered during the first two months of the bureau's existence were: 

One hundred per cent wheatless quick breads of every description, 
Canning, Dehydrating, Children's diet, Invalid cookery. Balanced meals 
for all ages, Meat substitutes. Uses of dairy products, Yeast bread made 
with minimum amount of wheat, Uses of fish, French and Italian con- 
servation cookery, WTieatless pastry. Jellies, jams, and marmalades 



520 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [November 

without sugar, Seasonable salads to save the sweets, Vegetable cookery, 
Conservation of fuel. 

The demonstrators in charge on the Model Kitchen platform, are of 
course, all home economics graduates. The three largest Home Eco- 
nomics Centers of Chicago, the University of Chicago, Lewis Institute, 
and the School of Domestic Arts and Science, all cooperate, sending us 
lecturers and demonstrators frequently. We also have had many 
visiting demonstrators from other citites who offered their services from 
time to time. We have also been fortunate throughout the summer in 
having six demonstrators from the States Relations Service, United 
States Department of Agriculture. 

The third department in the Bureau is the experimental kitchen in 
charge of a master baker and domestic science expert. Here the recipes 
given away at the information desk were tested out, new combinations 
of sugarless, wheatless foods made every day, and the products of the 
bake oven in this kitchen sold in our model bake shop, with the hope of 
teaching the public that the wheat and sugar substitutes when properly 
prepared are very palatable. The baker works in full view of the 
public, who are permitted to ask questions. 

During the first thirteen weeks we had an attendance of 35,521 
people; almost all of them eager to learn, but many of them woefully 
ignorant of even the simplest measures to be employed for the proper 
food conservation. It has been most gratifying to see many of the 
same faces day after day and hear the expressions of approval over and 
over again of this free government cooking school. In order to reach 
all of the housewives of Chicago and in appreciation of the fact that 
many women cannot leave their own districts, plans are now being 
perfected for branch centers in every ward in the city. 



KITCHEN TESTS FOR PECTIN IN JELLY MAKING 

MINNA C. DENTON 
Experimental Kitchen, Office oj Home Economics, U. S. Department of Agriculture 

The standard test for pectin, 1 tablespoonful of fruit juice plus 1 
tablespoonful of grain alcohol (95 per cent) , has now become impossible 
in many households since there are a number of states in>hich it is dif- 
ficult or impossible to purchase grain alcohol except as a physician's 
prescription. 



1918] KITCHEN TESTS FOR PECTIN IN JELLY MAKING 521 

The following pectin test has been used by the writer and has been 
found more or less satisfactory with apple, crabapple, plum, quince, and 
cranberry juices. (Grape juice, however, behaved so differently that 
the test was valueless in this case.) 

Proceed as follows: To 1 teaspoonful of dripped fruit juice add | 
teaspoonful sugar and | teaspoonful Epsom salts; stir until all are dis- 
solved, then let stand five minutes. If the mixture sets into a jelly 
within this time, the juice is a good jellying juice, and may be sweetened 
and boiled at once, cooldng rapidly until it begins to set or flake from 
the edge of the spoon. If the Epsom salt mixture fails to set into a 
sohd sheet of jelly witliin a few minutes, then the juice needs to be con- 
centrated by boiling before it is sweetened. 

It may be added, that where wood alcohol can be purchased, it will 
serve for the pectin test instead of grain alcohol, and its action is more 
rapid than that of Epsom salts. Like grain alcohol it does not as a rule 
form a solid sheet of smooth jelly, but precipitates the pectin in smaller 
or larger clumps in the midst of a liquid juice which is expressed from 
the jelly clumps. In a good jellying juice, the pectin comes down in one 
large solid clump at once; in a poor juice (one in which the pectin is too 
much diluted), the clumps are smaller and more scattered. Wood 
alcohol is perhaps more likely to allow the re-dissolving of these pre- 
cipitated jelly clumps in the surrounding juice, after some minutes' 
standing, than is grain alcohol. The wood alcohol test, unlike the Epsom 
salt test, can be used with grape juice as well as with other juices. The 
Epsom salt test as described above, if allowed to stand ten to twenty 
hours, is often more sensitive than the alcohol tests; too sensitive for 
the housekeeper's use, in fact, for even a very poor juice will often set 
in this length of time. 

In case wood alcohol is used for the pectin test, it must be remembered 
that this is a poison and should be labelled as such and kept away from 
children. 

Commercial denatured alcohol as bought at drug stores is in some 
cases at least, even more successful as a precipitant of pectin, than is 
the pure methyl alcohol of the laboratory. 



522 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [November 

THE MEANING OF THE WORD CORN 

It is somewhat curious how differently the word "corn" is understood 
by different peoples. In the United States we generally mean by it 
simply maize or Indian corn; but the Scotch use it as meaning oats, 
and to most Englishmen an "ear of corn" suggests nothing but a head of 
wheat, while throughout the northern part of the European continent 
a "cornfield" is understood almost always as a field of rye. 

If we turn to our Authorized Version of the Bible we find the word 
"com" used in several interesting ways. It is said that Ruth coming 
to Bethlehem "in the beginning of the barley harvest" asked "to go 
into the field and glean ears of corn." But it was "in the time of the 
wheat harvest" that Samson burned "the standing corn of the Philis- 
tines" by tying firebrands to the fo.xes' tails. The humane statute of 
Moses "Thou shalt not muzzle the ox when he treadeth out the corn" 
undoubtedly applies to all the grain plants harvested by the Israelites. 
Finally, in the words of Jesus, " except a corn of wheat fall into the ground 
and die, it abideth alone" the meaning of corn is plainly kernel. 

The dictionary tells us that the word first meant simply a hard, edible 
seed, grain, or kernel, and was appUed especially to such kinds as were 
of most importance for food. From this it would be but a short step 
to speak of the plants which bore such kernels, as "com plants" or 
"corn" in general. Then whichever of these plants was most familiar 
to a people naturally came to be known as "the corn" of that region, or 
simply as "corn," while those corn plants which were in less common use 
were distinguished by their separate names. — Corn Plants, by Frederick 
Leroy Sargent. 



EDITORIAL 

An Emergency Commission in Education. The following reso- 
lution should be of especial interest to those who have for many years 
urged the introduction of Food Courses into the schools. What per- 
sistent agitation for a long series of years has failed to bring about, the 
emergency of today seems to be about to accomplish. 

This Commission of the National Education Association was ap- 
pointed to represent the Association in mapping out a program for the 
"rebuilding of civilization through a war modified education." It has 
a membership of 29, seven of them women, including our own Miss 
Arnold, dean of Simmons College. The commission was organized in 
March, 1918, and has since held four meetings. Among the problems 
considered by it are: Higher salaries for teachers, adequate teacher 
training, a complete program of health and recreation, rural education, 
immigrant education, the education of adult illiterates, training for all 
forms of national ser\-ice, the coordination of war service in the schools, 
the creation of a national department of education, and the extension 
of national cooperation with the states in strengthening the public 
schools. 

Resolution 

Resolved: That the N. E. A. Commission on the Emergency in Education 
and the Program for Readjustment during and after the War, in support of 
the agreement made with the U. S. Food Administration by the National 
Education Association at Pittsburgh, approves the work already done by 
the College Section of the Food Administration, and further urges upon 
schools throughout the country the form of cooperation which follows: 

I. Emphasis of appropriate instruction concerning the uses of food and the 
consequent choice of food as related to health. To this end the plan of edu- 
cation provided by the Food Admininstration, in cooperation with the Bureau 
of Education and the Department of Agriculture, should be followed wherever 
possible. 

II. Careful attention to aU government messages concerning the food 
supply, and explicit instruction to the schools in the interpretation of these 
messages — whether extended through the press, by special bulletin, or by the 
specific request of the local Food Administration. 

523 



524 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [November 

III. The organization of such routine as will enable the pupils to carry 
such specific messages to their homes — thus creating in the school system 
relay-stations for Government messages — state and Federal — and consti- 
tuting every pupil a "Messenger for Uncle Sam." 

IV. Evert state, or county or municipality should arrange its own plan 
for carrying information. The important reaction upon the pupils who are 
thus recognized in this national service is not to be ignored in our estimate 
of this contribution. 

The Commission hopes to secure an early response from every state with an 
assurance of cooperation. Definite suggestions as to plans will be welcomed. 
(Signed) George D. Strayer, Chairman, 
L. D. CoFFMAN, Secretary 
October 9, 1918. 



A Protest. Under the guise of saving material the manufacturers have 
put on the market this fall skirts that are a revival of a fashion that we 
had thought was gone forever. They are so narrow that it is practically 
impossible to take a long free step when wearing them, and to ascend a 
street car is to perform an athletic feat. That the excuse of saving ma- 
terial is only a pretense is shown by the fact that the narrow skirt is 
accompanied by an overskirt. A moderately full skirt would be more 
attractive and far more comfortable and safe, and use no more material. 

The tendency to lengthen skirts should not go too far. It would be 
a calamity to go back to dresses that just cleared the ground. While 
the extremely short skirt is not to be commended, one that comes just 
below the tops of the boots is not immodest and is far more suitable for 
a business suit than one that must be lifted whenever one goes up stairs. 

Delicate colors that require much labor if they are to be kept clean 
should be reserved for "occasions," not introduced into every day 
garments intended for rough service. 

Yokes, cuffs, collars, and waist linings, so far as possible, should be 
detachable so that they can be easily cleaned, and preferably made of 
washable material. 

Work dresses for the house should be made with short sleeves with 
cuffs that may be buttoned on if desired. 

The overheating of our houses has been partly responsible for the use 
of thin waists and transparent sleeves. With the present coal shortage 
these wiU not offer sufficient protection and are not suitable for most 
people. They are rarely economical. 



1918] COMMENT AND DISCUSSION 525 

Why can we not have sensible clothes upon the market? Clothes 
that are of such good lines and so simply made that they are attractive 
instead of grotesque even when they are not the "latest thing," clothes 
that depend for their value on quality of material and workmanship 
rather than on superfluous ornaments that have no relation to the lines 
of tlie garment or the beauty of the material, clothes that allow freedom 
of movement and are designed with reference to the lines of the body. 

It is useless to say that women are themselves responsible for the 
styles. This is true only to a limited extent. Some, of course, will 
always desire the "newest thing." Upon many the style is forced be- 
cause they cannot get anything else. Those who must buy ready 
made clothes take what is offered them, or go without. Even if a long 
search might reveal what they wish, time and effort are very precious 
today. 

If only by some change of heart those who set the styles could make 
sensible dress fashionable, and keep it so, they would receive the grati- 
tude of a large majority of women. 



COMMENT AND DISCUSSION 

The Journal of Home Economics: 

In reply to the inquiry made in the May number of the Journal 
regarding the relative advantages of arranging sewing and cooking on 
alternate days, semesters or years, I am enclosing a summary of our 
experience in the Ames Pubhc Schools where we do the practice teaching 
in home economics. 

Genevieve Fisher, 
Director of Practice Teaching in Home 
Economics, Iowa State College. 

An analysis of the various methods of arranging cooking and sewing 
in the high school program.. 
I. Alternate days: 
Advantages: none. 



526 THE joxmNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [November 

Disadvantages: (a) Does not allow for work which should come on 
consecutive days. Numbers of problems in foods can well take two 
or three days to finish, (b) Breaks into the series of sewing units so that 
only the very shortest units can be finished. 

II. Alternate groups of days as Monday, Tuesday, and Wednesday of 
the first semester for cooking; Thursday and Friday for sewing. The 
order reversed for the second semester. 

Advantages: (a) Gives sufficient consecutive lessons to complete most 
food units. Left over food materials can be utilized, (b) Gives an 
opportunity for the seasonal changes in both the cooking and sewing. 
(c) Gives more time to cooking in the fall semester when fresh vegetables 
and fruits are plentiful, (d) Gives more time in the spring semester 
for sewing, (e) Gives more opportunity for home practice of the work 
taught at school, (f) The total week's work is less liable to cause 
physical fatigue if the girl's time is divided between cooking and sewing. 

Disadvantages: (a) The constructive problem in sewing covers a long 
period of time and the pupils may grow impatient to complete it. 

III. Alternate semesters : Advantages : (a) Gives more intensive work 
in both subjects, (b) Shortens length of time for a problem. 

Disadvantages: (a) If provision is not made for reversing the order 
die second year, the course will not provide for seasonal changes, (b) 
The cooking may cause undue physical fatigue if the class is young. 

IV. Alternate years. 

Advantages: (a) Gives still more intensive work, (b) Gives seasonal 
changes. 

Disadvantages: (a) Pupils are more liable to drop out at the end of 
the year and have but one type of work, (b) An entire year of cooking 
may be too fatiguing. 

Conclusion. The choice seems to lie between the following two plans: 

1. Alternate groups of days where the extra day in the fall is given to 
cooking, and in the spring to sewing. 

2. Alternate semesters where provision is made for seasonal changes 
by reversing the order the second year. If careful attention is given to 
change from laboratory' to recitation work, fatigue will not result. 



BOOKS AND LITERATURE 



.\iiy book or periodical mentioned in this department may be obtained through the 
Journal of Home Economics if the Journal price is listed. 



Food and the War. A textbook for college 
classes. U. S. Food .-Administration in 
cooperation with the Department of .Agri- 
culture and the Bureau of Education. 
Boston: Houghton, Mifflin Company, 
1918, pp. 369. S0.80. By mail of the 
Journal, $0.90. 

Last spring there were issued from the 
Food .Administration, with the cooperation 
of the Department of .Agriculture and the 
Bureau of Education, a series of lessons for 
colleges and normal schools that were used 
in more than 500 institutions. The lessons 
consisted of 16 weekly lectures, of a second 
course including supplementarj' material 
that expanded the work into 48 lessons, and 
of a laboratory course. 

The lessons were prepared by Dr. Kather- 
ine Blunt of the University of Chicago, 
Florence Powdermaker of the Department 
of Agriculture, and Elizabeth Sprague of the 
University of Kansas, with aid from various 
experts who were called to their assistance. 
The text covered the present food situation, 
the relation of the Food .Administration to 
it, and the ways in which ever3-one has been 
asked to modify his food habits in order to 
help in winning the war. This of necessity 
involved a study of food and diet. 

These lessons were so successful that they 
have been revised, brought up to date, and 
published in book form, and a second edition 
is now in press. 

The book is admirably adapted for a sur\-ey 
course in colleges that have not before in- 
troduced work in Home Economics, as well 
as for an introductory or a review course for 
students taking the ordinary Home Econom- 
ics work. If it were to be used for review, 
part of the material, especially some labora- 
tor>- exercises, might be omitted, but on the 



whole the point of Wew is so different from 
food courses as ordinarily formulated and 
so essential at present that very few would 
find much of it a repetition. 

The book has been prepared with the ut- 
most care and the facts thoroughly verified. 
The authors had access to the records of the 
Food .Administration and were able to intro- 
duce much material that is difficult to find 
elsewhere in such well authenticated form. 
The brief but especially well selected bibli- 
ography at the end of each chapter deserves 
notice. Thanks are due the Food Adminis- 
tration as well as the authors for making 
available the valuable material in the book. 

Food Guide for War Service at Borne. Pre- 
pared under the direction of the United 
States Food .Administration in coopera- 
tion with the Department of Agriculture 
and the Bureau of Education. New 
York: Charles Scribners Sons, 1918, pp. 
67. $0.25. By mail of the Journal, $0.30. 

The courses offered to colleges last spring 
were so successful and in such demand that 
it was thought wise to prepare in briefer and 
less technical form a survey of the food 
situation that might be used for high school 
boys and girls to make them familiar with 
the elementarj' facts in regard to food, the 
world's present needs and their share in sup- 
plying them. It was fortunate that the 
same authors could undertake this work, 
with the additional help of Frances Swain 
of Chicago Normal College. The same ac- 
curate and careful work is shown as in "Food 
and the War." 

The Food Guide deals with the wheat 

situation, the war time importance of wheat 

and other cereals, and war bread, with the 

regulations in regard to it. It discusses 

527 



528 



THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS 



[November 



meat and fat here and abroad, explains the 
sugar shortage, shows why milk is necessary 
for the nation's health, and why we should 
produce and eat vegetables and fruits. A 
few well selected references arc given. The 
work should be as interesting for the general 
public as for the high school student. 

Both this book and "Food and the War" 
have an introduction by Mr. Hoover. 

American Women and the World War. By 
Ida Clyde Clarke. New York: D. .\p- 
pleton and Company, 1918, pp. 545. 
$2,00. 

In the United States, as in other countries* 
women, perhaps because they cannot actu- 
ally fight, have been quicker than men to rec- 
ognize the obligations of wartimes and to 
realize the tasks that must be accomplished 
at home as well as in the field. The amount 
of work done by American women, in con- 
nection with the war, has been stupendous. 
The promoting and executive ability dis- 
played has opened up a new chapter in the 
history of women's advance into the indus- 
trial and political life of the nation. Ade- 
quate leadership has been forthcoming and 
women have shown that they can cooperate 
in a common cause and work as members of 
a unit for the benefit of all rather than for 
individual glory or notoriety. 

Old organizations have undertaken new 
work and new organizations have been 
formed for special purposes. At the end of 
1917 there were some five thousand differ- 
ent organizations and branch organizations 
engaged in war work, with an active mem- 
bership of over two million. The author has 
performed a most useful task by gathering 
together data on these organizations, and 
telling the story of their entrance into war 



work and of the type of work that each is 
doing. This volume is really a reference 
book or directory. Information of the 
scope of each of the leading organizations, 
the names and addresses of chairmen, and 
the full text of the more important official 
documents and resolutions of women's or- 
ganizations are given. 

Part I is a survey of the work of the 
Women's Committee of the Council of 
National Defence, describing with great 
clearness the successful coordination of ef- 
fort through the state chairmen of the 
Women's Committee; the help given by the 
women in registration, in food conservation 
and production, in the Liberty Loan cam- 
paigns, in child welfare work, in the social 
work in and around the cantonments; and 
the way in which the problems of women 
thrust into industry, such as the mainte- 
nance of standard working conditions, equal 
pay for equal work, and the training of 
women to do men's work, have been met. 

Part II reviews the work of the women, 
state by state, emphasizing any special work 
or novel scheme which has been followed. 
Part III outlines the special war relief or- 
ganizations such as the Federal Council of 
Allied War Relief, the National .allied Relief 
Committee, the State Women's War Relief, 
and others, many of which have been at 
work since 1914. Special chapters are de- 
voted to relief in Belgium, in France, in 
Great Britain, in Poland, and in Russia. 
This book is completed by a directory of 
the leading women's organizations connected 
with war work. 

.\xi adequate index would have added 
greatly to the value of this volume. 

Chase Going Woodhouse, 
Smith College. 



1918] BIBLIOGRAPHY OF HOME ECONOMICS 529 

BIBLIOGRAPHY OF HOME ECONOMICS 

PERIODICAL LITERATURE 
Textiles and Clothing 

May Control Boll Weevil. Text. World Jour., Aug. 3. 

Cotton Airplane Fabrics. Text. World Jour., Aug. 17. 

Cotton to be Used Entirely for Airplane Cloth After Present Linen Stock is Exhausted. 
Te.xt. World Jour., .•\ug. 31. 

Cost of Producing Cotton. Text. World Jour., Aug. 31. 

What Do We Wear? Howe, Scientific American, July 20. 

Difficulties in Remaking Long Gloves. Dry Goods Econ., July 13. 

Long Gloves: Turn Them into Wrist Length. Dry Goods Econ., Aug. 24. 

Silk Situation. Dry Goods Econ., Sept 7. 

Japanese Silk Trade. Text. World Jour., .\\i%. 3. 

The Silk Situation. Text. World Jour., .\\ig. 17. 

Smart and Decorative Ribbon Motifs. Designed by M. Byron. The Illustrated Milliner, 
July. 

Wool Dealers Hopeful. Comparison of South .\merican and .Australian Wool Combing. 
Text. World Jour., .\ug. 31. 

More Sheep Campaign. Text. World Jour., Aug. 31 . 

To Stimulate Sheep Growing. Text. World Jour., .\ug. 10. 

World Control of Wool Supply. Text. World Jour., Aug. 10. 

Pretense in Decoration. Vogue, Aug. 1. 

.\nimals in Decorative Art. A'ew Country Life, July 9. 

Old Order Changed in Wool Market. Te.xt. World Jour., July 6. 

Wool Scribbling and Spirming Commandeered. Text. World Jour., ."Aug. 3. 

Wool Situation Settling. Text. World Jour., Aug. 24. 

Machine-made Laces Become a Factor in Decoration. Richard F. Bach, Good Furniture, 
June 18. 

Lace Work in the Field of Decoration. John G. Patching, Decorative Furniture. July 
1918. 

The High Cost of Dressing. Vogue, Aug. 1. 

American Trade Mark Endorsed. Text. World Jour., Aug. 3. 

Dyestuff Market Largely Controlled by Scarcity of Stock. Text. World Jour., Aug. 10. 

Development of American Designers. Text World Jour., Aug 24. 

Development of American Dextrin Industry. Color Trade Jour., 2 (1918), pp. 67-9. 
Chem. Abst., 1351 (1918). 

Measuring the Wearing Value of Cloth. Text. World Jour., Aug. 10. 

Dry Cleaning and Refinishing. Buck, Text. World Jour., Aug. 31. 

Lu.xury Ta.xes. Dry Goods Econ., .\ug. 24 and 31, and Sept. 7. 

Holiday Gift Edict. Dry Goods Econ., Sept. 7. 

Price Fixing Talk. Dry Goods Econ., July 27. 

Sewing Braid in Fancy Forms. Emma Maxwell Burke, The Illustrated Milliner, July. 

American Millinery Colors for Fall and Winter and How to Blend Them. Illustrated 
Milliner, July. 

A Complete Course in Millinery. Emma Maxwell Burke, Illustrated Milliner, Aug. and 
Sept. 



530 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [November 

Nutrition and Foods 

Vitamines. W. Ramsden, Jour. Soc. Clietn. Ind., 37 (1918), p. 53. 

Nutritive Value of Whole Wheat and of 85 Per Cent Flour Compared with White Flour. 
L. Lapicque and J. Chaussin, Covipl. rend. 166 (1918), p. 300. Chem. Absl. 1478 (1918). 

Soy Beans. T. A. Kresselbach, Nebr. Agr. Expl. Sla. Bui. No. 166 (1918). 

Soy Bean Industry in the United States. W. J. Morse, Bur. Plant. Ind., Dcpl. Agr. Year 
Book (Separate) 101-11 (1917). 

Peanut as a Great American Food. Dept. Agr. Year Book (Separate) 289-301 (1917). 

Edible Litchi Nut. B. E. Read, Jour. Amer. Chem. Soc, 40 (1918), pp. 817-22. 

Economy in Feeding the Family. Conn. Agr. Exp. Sla. Bid. 201 (1918). 

Barley as a Human Food. C. H. Briggs. Norlhweslern Miller, (1918) pp. 126-8. 

War Flours, Breads and Doughs. M. Leprince and R. Lecog, Bui. Sci. Pharmacol., 20 
(1918), Pt. 2, pp. 14-18. Chem. Abst., 1800 (1918). 

Influence of Cold Shock in the Sterilization of Canned Foods. Z. D. Bushnell, Jour. 
Ind. Eng. Chem. 10 (1918), pp. 432-6. 

Food Wastes — Some Causes and Remedies. Lucius P. Brown, Jour. Franklin Insl., 185, 
(1918), pp. 585-610. 

New Method for Preservation of Animal and Vegetable Substances with Asphyxiating 
Gases. Arch. Farm. Spcr. 24 (1917), pp. 280-8. Chem. Abst. 1401 (1918). 

Alleged Poisoning by Potatoes. Analyst., 43 (1918), pp. 133-7. 

Bacteriological Methods of Determining the Quality of Milk. Pcnn. State. Coll. Expl. 
Sta. Ann. Report 1914-15, p. 294. 

Preparation of Edible Fat and Meat E.xtract Substitute from Bones. X. Kraus, Preuss. 
Vebund bcamt. Nahriingsmitlel Chem., July, 1917; Jour. Soc. Chem. Ind., 37, 104-5 A. 

Toxicity of Eggs. G. Linossier, Bui. L'acad. Med. 79 (1918), p. 237. Jour. Amer. 
Med. Assn., 70, 1573. 

War Bread from Biologic Standpoint. E. Weill and G. ^louriquand, Paris Medical, 8 
(1918) p. 258; Jour. Am. Med. Assn., 70, 1799. 

Economies in Tomato Manufacturing. J. H. Shrader, Amer. Food Jour. Aug., 1918. 

WiUielm as a Press Agent. (A discussion of the food situation in Germany.) Amer. 
Food Jour., Aug., 1918. 

Churning Oleomargarine. E. Keebler. Amer. Food Jour., Aug., 1918. 

The Sugar Situation. U. S. Food Administrator, Amer. Food Jour., July, 1918. 

Cereal Beverages. George B. Sippel, Amer. Food Jour., June, 1918. 

Use of Soy Bean Oil. Midland Druggist, 52, 202. Chem. Abst., 1918, p. 1518. 

Detection of Added Color in Butter and Oleomargarine. Jour. Ind. and Eng. Chem., 
10 (1918), p. 436. Chem. Abst. 1670 (1918). 

Uniform Nitrogen Determination in Cottonseed Meal. Jour. Ind. and Eng. Chem., 10 
(1918), p. 533. Chem. Abst., 1918. 

Orange and Lemon Peels and Pips (composition). Jour. Soc. Chem. Ind., 37, 105 A. 
Chem. Ztg., 41 (1917), p. 830. Chem. Abst. 1575 (1918). 

Dried Vegetables with Special Reference to Their Nitrogen and Calcium Content. Jour. 
Amer. Med. Assn., 70 (1918), p. 1743. Chem. Abst., 1575 (1918). 

Some Problems of the Margarine Industry. Jour. Soc. Chem. Ind., 37 (1918), p. 165. 



NEWS FROM THE FIELD 



The American Dietetic Association 

held its first annual meeting at the Royal 
Palace Hotel at Atlantic City, September 
26-29, 1918, with an attendance far in ex- 
cess of expectation. 

All meetings except the business meet- 
ings were held in the general assembly hall 
in order to accommodate the large audiences 
made up not only of members of the asso- 
ciation but of progressive hospital people 
interested in it. 

Thursday afternoon Dr. E. V. McCollum 
spoke on Consen-ation in Planning Diets. 

A paper on The Dietitian in Social Serv- 
ice by Lucy Gillett, Director Dietetic Bu- 
reau, League for Preventive Work, Boston, 
was read by Blanche Joseph. 

A talk on The Dietetic Needs of To-day 
was given by Martha Van Rennselaer of 
the U. S. Food Administration. 

Friday at 9 a.m. the regular business 
meeting was held. Miss Graves presiding; 
Miss Smedley presented the report of the 
committee on resolutions; affiliation with 
other organizations was discussed at length 
and decision deferred. The following sec- 
tions were organized: Dietotheraphy, Ad- 
ministration, Teaching, and Social Ser^-ice. 
The president was authorized to appoint a 
member of the e.xecutive committee as 
chairman of each section. A very lively 
discussion of tlie student dietitian problem 
followed, during which the nature of the 
training, length of course, hospital facilities, 
and conditions of living were discussed. 
The report of the committee on revision of 
constitution and by-laws was given by Miss 
Cooper. The principal recommendations 
were that there be but one secretary and 
that the dues be raised to two dollars per 
year. The committee on nominations pre- 
sented the following ballot: President, Lulu 
Graves, Cornell University; First Vice-presi- 



dent, Lenna Frances Cooper, Battle Creek 
Sanitarium; Secretarj', E. M. Geraghty, 
New Haven Hospital, New Haven, Conn.; 
Treasurer, Emma Smedley, 1425 Brandy- 
wine St., Philadelphia, Pa., and these offi- 
cers were elected. 

Friday afternoon Caroline Hunt, U. S. 
Department of .Agriculture, spoke on Con- 
ser\-ation in Dietarj- Calculations, and a 
paper by Edna White on The Dietitian in 
Cooperation with the Red Cross, read by 
Emma Conley, renewed the discussion of 
the training of the student dietitian. The 
intensive training course for college gradu- 
ates was brought up and tbe general senti- 
ment was that it is better to give hospital 
training to the women already graduated 
from reputable schools of home economics 
than to devote the energy to untrained 
women. The hope was expressed that the 
hospitals would realize the necessity of 
opening their doors to the student dietitians, 
provided their dietary departments and the 
personnel of these departments are such as 
offer favorable training for these women. 
The motion was made that the association 
send a representative to Washington to con- 
fer with the proper authorities as to the 
scope of the training hospitals should offer 
to render dietitians of most value to the 
army, and ^liss Graves was appointed to 
act as this representative. 

The general session of the American Hos- 
pital Association and the American Dietetic 
Association was held Friday evening. Miss 
Lenna Cooper presiding. Henry C. Wright, 
Secretarj- I'Tew York State Charities Asso- 
ciation, talked on the work of the Insti- 
tutional Food Conservation Committee. 
C. S. Pitcher, Kings Park State Hospital, 
read a paper on Waste of Food in Hospitals. 
Miss Graves read a very excellent paper on 
The Management of the Dietary Depart- 
531 



532 



THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOiHCS 



[November 



ment. A brief discussion, led by Dr. Louis 
Burlingham, followed. 

Saturday morning at a meeting of the ex- 
ecutive committee ttie following chairmen 
were appointed; Program Committee, Lenna 
Cooper; Membership Committee, E. M. 
Geraghty; Section on Dietotheraphy, Mar- 
garet Saw>'er; Section on Administration, 
Emma Smedley; Section on Teaching, 
Katherine Fisher; Section on Social Service, 
Blanche Joseph. 

The thanks of the organization are due 
Miss Graves for her able administration 
during the initial year, for rarely has an as- 
sociation accompUshed so much in one year 
as has this one. ^liss Graves has not only 
been its leader but also through it has influ- 
enced the whole profession. 

College Degree in Home Demonstra- 
tion Work. The first four years' college 
course in home demonstration work in the 
United States was established this summer at 
the George Peabody College for Teachers at 
NashWlle, Tennessee, through the efforts of 
the president. Dr. Bruce R. Payne. The 
course leads to a degree of bachelor of 
science and includes academic work similar 
to the requirements of other scientific de- 
grees as well as special work in home eco- 
nomics. Women and girls completing this 
new course will be equipped to take up home 
demonstration work for the U. S. Depart- 
ment of .Agriculture and the State Agricul- 
tural Colleges. Since the Knapp Memorial 
Farm is located at the college, many special- 
ists of the different bureaus of the Depart- 
ment, who visit Nashville to give instruc- 
tions and to see the work that is being carried 
on there, have assisted greatly in the home 
demonstration work of the summer short 
courses during the last three years, and will 
now be able to contribute to the women's 
work throughout the year. 



Food Conservation on Street Comers. 

A new kitchen on wheels is carrying the mes- 
sage of food conser\-ation in street meetings 
to many Boston women who have not been 
reached directly in any other way. A motor 
truck, which has been contributed by a pub- 
lic-spirited woman of the city, has been fully 
equipped for food demonstrations that are 
gi\'en by home demonstration agents of the 
United States Department of Agriculture and 
the State Agricultural College cooperating 
with the State Food .Administration. The 
truck carries a large-sized electric stove, a 
white-enameled kitchen cabinet, a zinc table 
for hot dishes, and an enameled table for the 
actual work of cooking and canning. Two 
dozen camp chairs are also pro\'ided, and 
other chairs and benches are usually brought 
out from homes in the vicinity of the demon- 
stration. The audiences have averaged 
about 60 women, fully as many children, 
with 10 or 12 men in the background. A 
trained nurse goes along who speaks for 
fifteen minutes, before or after the regular 
demonstrations, on the feeding of children 
and the importance of milk. 

The American Association of Agricul- 
tural Colleges and Experiment Stations 
will hold its meeting in Baltimore, January 
8 to 10, with headquarters at the Southern 
Hotel. 

From January 2 to 8 the State Leaders 
of Home Demonstration Work of the States 
Relations Service, OfiSce of Extension Work, 
North and West, will hold a conference in 
Washington. 

A meeting of the Council of the American 
Home Economics Association will be held at 
tne Journal Oflice in Baltimore during the 
session of the .A. A. A. C. and E. S. at a time 
to be appointed. Members of the Associa- 
tion are cordially invited to visit the Journal 
Office at any time. It is located in the 
Medical and Chirurgical Faculty building 
at 1211 Cathedral Street. 



December, 1918 
Vol. X, No. 12 

THE 

Journal of Home Economics 

Ketieah E. Eaidkin, II amting Editor 
Mrs. Auce P. Norton, Editor Editorial Board 

c V LANGwoRTin- Ethelw™ Miixer Roth Wheeler Amy Daniels 

Mrs. Mary H. Abel C. I-. Langwortiti ^.lot^ 

p.^ffiWn Jf,«.(,«-s -Edna N Wette. PresideDt Aniericin Home Economics Association 
Ex-Ofico Members Edna^'^-^;^^^^ • chairman Institution Economics Section 
Katheeine Bin.-T. Chairman Science bection 
AcNifE: Harris, Chairman Extension Education Section 
Grace Denny, Chairman Textile Section 
CoUahoralors-The Officers, Members of the Council, and Advisors 



CONTENTS 

. . . Frontispiece 
Christius, 1918 M.D.C.Crauiord 533 

.\MERic.\x Textiles ■ ,„ r^o 

,, ^ Elizabeth MiUcr and Bcrmce Allen 542 

Problems IX Cake M.\KiNG , ,,• ^ n , ijaq 

WH.T TEMPERAXrKE IS REACHED IxSIBE THE J.VR DURING HOME CAXXIXO^ .1/;«,a C. Dcntn 548 

_ ... ZH/iJ E. Bigclo'd' 552 

What Oxe Dep.\rtment Did _ 

Short Rations in Fr.\n-ce ant) Italy _"_^ 

The Common Table 

^ - . 03.^ 

Miss Martha Patterson— In' aIemorlam 

For THE HOMEM.AKER . , . „, --7 

„ „ Knihcnne Uiover ,")3/ 

\ew York Community Centers 

,139 
\ Red Cross Christmas 

A COMP..RISON OF THE USE OF BAKEr's AND HOMEMADE BREAD .^MONG DIFFERENT NATION- 

.... 561 

ALITTES IN THE United States 

. . • 300 

Children's Health Code _^ 

Editori.al .,^ 

The Question Box 

Books and Ltterature 

P.A.MPHXETS Received 

Bibliogr.\phy OF Home Economics 

News from the Field 



THE JoaRSAL OP Home EcONcacs i. published monthly by the American Home Economics Association. 
,2 00 A YEAR. FOREIGN $2.35. CANADIAN $2.20 SINGLE COPIES 25 CENTS 

AMERICAN HOME ECONOMICS ASSOCIATION 1211 Cathedral St., Baltimore, Md. 

^^ , ^. HnM. Fro-.ovncs is on sale at John Wanamaker's, Philadelphia; The Old Corner Book Store, Bostoo; 

THE JOCRNA^L ^^ ^^^^^^^^'^ZlZLr. Nels Company.Baltimore; Woodw.ard and Lothrop. Washm^on 



which 



CHRISTMAS, 1918 

If slighter fare our tables here afford. 

And fewer guests our homely joys enhance. 

Where millions press we spread a grander board ; 
This year we hold our Christmas feast in France. 

We shall be host to Nations! — all who strive 
For deathless right, the greatest and the least 

Who give their best that Freedom shall survive. 
This year we hold a nobler Christmas feast. 

— Arthur Guiterman 

Reprinted from' the Christmas Number of Life. Copyright, Life Pub. Co. 



THE 

Journal of Home Economics 

Vol. X DECEMBER, 1918 No. 12 

AMERICAN TEXTILES! 

M. D. C. CRAWFORD 

Editor, Women's Wear 

As I understand the puqjose of the American Home Economics 
Association, it aims to apply scientific methods to the selection and 
purchase of commodities for the home. 

To a degree, it is the purpose of this Association to supply through 
scientific training that intimate knowledge of these important matters 
enjoyed by all women before the super-development of the modern 
factory system. In former times, this information was passed on from 
mother to daughter. And among so-called backward peoples, that is, 
nations who have not passed over personal detail to the machine, such 
knowledge is still enjoyed. The women of America are constantly 
referred to as the most extravagant on earth. They are supposed to 
have this quality inherent in their natures. But I regard this as merely 
one of those dangerous surface truths; it is always easier to make sensa- 
tional charges than it is to support them by facts or to suggest practical 
remedies. Extravagance does unciuestionably exist, but it is not wholly 
to be ascribed as wasteful living due to the great prosperity of America. 
For it is a very significant fact that in America our machine factory 
development has been more complete, more widespread, than in any 
other nation. This must share with our great wealth the blame for our 
careless habits of purchase. Wastefulness is generally based on lack of 
information. 

' Presented at the Eleventh Annual Meeting of the .American Home Economics .Associa- 
tion, Chicago, June, 1918 . 

533 



534 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [December 

In those days when women not only cut and sewed their own gar- 
ments, but prepared the fiber, spun the threads, and in many instances 
actually wove and dyed the fabrics, there was little to complain of in 
the line of extravagance. 

Woman's supervision extended not only over the preparation of the 
daily meals, but also to the storing of such foodstuffs as could be preserved. 
Her knowledge of agriculture was quite remarkable and she under- 
stood the practice of elementary medicine to a very interesting degree. 
Her days were certainly full, and, though she bought her knowledge at 
perhaps too high a price, she must again acquire this knowledge, or at 
least that part of the knowledge which she needs in her present duties; 
and the only point really open for discussion is as to methods she should 
employ in so doing. 

The romance of the modern machine, the imposing of factory organi- 
zations, and the many questions relating to economics and labor that 
have arisen because of the machine, have perhaps blinded us to the 
great debt we owe to the ages that preceded its advent into modem 
life. To the hand craft of past ages we are indebted for the basic prin- 
ciples of all mechanical processes. 

The perfection to which they brought many things, especially in the 
textile fields, judged only on a purely mechanical basis, has never been 
equalled, and, of course, when we touch on the aesthetic side, the com- 
parison between the best modern work and the best of the old work is 
not very flattermg to our so-called modern genius. The romance of 
history lies not in spectacular conquests nor in the council rooms of 
statesmen, but is to be sought in that age-long contest that men and 
women, aided by a few tools which were themselves the product of 
their own mtellect, fortuitous circumstance, and skill, waged with the 
forces of nature. To the man belongs the conquest of agriculture and 
transportation, but for the woman the loom and the potter's clay were 
the fields of brilliant and stubborn fight; and her genius, working through 
the long twilight of history, brought forth objects of utility and beauty 
that today our machines fashion into thousands of reproductions, and 
still in spite of many blunders catch a reflection of the charm imparted 
by the hands that have long since been dust. 

I do not believe that art can ever be re^'ived in America or in any 
other part of the world, unless again a large number of individuals 
practice the hand crafts. No age has produced a great art, or indeed 
an art worthy of the name, that has not based it on a study of craft 



1918] AMERICAN TEXTILES 535 

work. We are at the beginning, I am convinced, of a great revival in 
the evaluation of aesthetic standards, and I am confident that the next 
generation, perhaps the next decade, will see a revival in crafts that 
would have been undreamed of before this war aroused us to the true 
values in life. 

I earnestly believe that hand craft work, therefore, should e.xist as an 
introduction to the real type of American art, and as a possible and 
practical solution of certain of our labor problems. I am thankful to 
state that the times that produced these marvels now belong to the 
age of romance, and what I have said in regard to the revival of interest 
in hand craft refers to the inclination of a group of individuals rather 
than to women as a class. Her place in the world has been too recently 
acknowledged, and is of far too great an importance in the political and 
economic structure of the world to relegate her again to a secondary 
intellectual sphere. 

If the crafts are to be revived, they will be revived by both men and 
women, and from now on the distinction between the sexes in all of 
their intellectual, industrial, and political life will diminish. Perhaps 
the machine has gone too far; perhaps we have come to regard the 
machine as an end, not as a means to an end. We have learned to 
control and limit the economic features of the machine to a certain 
degree. We will solve this problem even more completely in the near 
future, but let us never forget that a modem factory production, what- 
ever its faults may be (and admittedly they are great), has at least the 
exalted virtue of having released untold feminine energy for the great 
and vital problem of this dark hour. 

The women of today are confronted with the problem of acquiring 
that knowledge of materials which they relinquished when they ceased 
to be home craftsmen. It is their problem, therefore, to address them- 
selves to developing, through scientific methods, information of this 
character. And at least part of their problems can be solved by the 
insistence that manufacturers of such merchandise as they purchase 
be induced to sign their production. 

In the purchase of foodstuffs that are prepared in factories and enter 
into interstate commerce, there is not only the government stamp of 
inspection, but (more important still) the personal guarantee of con- 
cerns who have learned the value of maintaining standards of purity, 
weight, and quality, and of establishing through pubHcity their reputa- 
tion for these qualities. We find the same condition in regard to many 



536 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [December 

other essentials or luxuries. No one would buy an automobile, piano, 
phonograph, or camera that did not bear upon it a direct and indis- 
pensable guarantee, impUed (and lived up to, in the main) by the per- 
sonal signature of the maker as well as of the dealer. 

There is a certain psychology in the mere act of signing a letter, a 
picture, or an article of commerce, which is quite apart from any finan- 
cial liability impHed. It arouses a strong persistent desire towards 
excellence. It is the combative, constructive, competitive insistence 
that lies at the root of all achievements. In spite of the apparent 
added cost of this procedure, in spite of certain tendencies toward 
coercive measures of sale, it remains an indisputable fact, that mer- 
chandise and men who are identified and guaranteed, are a little higher 
in value than the anonymous. 

It may, perhaps, appear strange that the most intimate articles of 
commerce that enter into our lives (that is, our costumes and the 
fabrics that compose them) have in a large measure escaped this iden- 
tification of the use of a trademark or firm name; yet this simple and 
apparently natural expedient has not been resorted to, partly because 
we have retained a certain superstitious reverence for the word "im- 
ported" — an attitude confined largely to the professional elements in 
the retail dry goods business and shared in only a small degree by 
the women of America. 

We have retained in the twentieth century, in spite of the most 
gigantic development, a strong reminiscence of the old "Vendue." 
Many of our retail advertisements read Uke pages from the newspapers 
published before the Revolution. You may recall the quaint old form: 
"By the Grace of God, on the 13th day of — , at Bowling Green, the 
barkentine Slapping Sally, outbound from foreign ports, landed the 
following packages of merchandise." Then follows an enticing list of 
feminine and masculine finery, interspersed with interesting mention of 
certain wines, high spirits, etc., and the information that these goods 
would be offered for sale at a "Vendue" on some near date. But those 
times have passed away, and it may be well to point out the anachron- 
ism of the use of the word "imported" as distinguishing quality rather 
than a geographical distinction. The actual facts of the case are that 
in the average high class department stores, at least 95 per cent of the 
stock is domestic; but in their advertising campaigns, stress is laid on 
the imported in practically reverse ratio. It was (and is, where it still 
exists today) rather a custom than a conscious intent to deceive. There 



1918] AMERICAN TEXTILES 537 

is no question that the retailers of America are men of probity and 
unquestioned patriotism. The word has become a peg to hang their 
advertising on. They are naturally concerned in the sale of their wares 
and have cherished the supers titition that the women of America want 
imported rather than domestic material, regardless of quality. And 
if the actual miported material is not available at the prices they can 
afford to pay, a skillfully camouflaged domestic article is next in demand. 

They retain something of the epigram of the famous showman who 
said. "The public likes to be fooled." I do not believe this. I rather 
incline to the idea that the misuse of the word is one of the rehcs of 
olden times, when it did express quality distinctions that were very 
important; and where it stiU exists it but proves the force of years of 
pubhcity; for women have imconsciously, perhaps, come to associate 
this name with quahty, and by contrast the term "domestic" has come 
to mean something of indifferent value. 

There is no question that even today, in spite of our enormous ad- 
vances, Europe makes certain things better than we do. Certainly as 
regards the artistic quality of merchandise, the average European 
manufacturer has been more thoughtful and more appreciative of this 
value. But the productions of European mills that have won for 
Europe her great reputation in the world (and this especially applies to 
the French) have always been known, not only by their national mark 
or insignia, but by individual names as well. We do not speak so 
much of a French gown as we do of a Callot, Lanvin, Poiret, or Paquin, 
and when we speak of French fabrics we think of Coudurier, Bianchini, 
or Rodier, rather than of some indefinite mill in France. 

When this war is over, our Allies will not only need our merchandise to 
replenish their stocks, but will also need our markets to rehabihtate 
their industries. Where they excel in domestic production, they are in 
all fairness entitled to a preference. On the other hand, American 
manufacturers have, by foresight, intelHgence, and courage, maintained 
and advanced recognized standards. They are also deserving of credit 
and patronage — the rewards of these qualities. We should not, there- 
fore, permit or countenance the misuse of the term '"imported," but 
should so arrange that merit will be the sole determining factor in each 
purchase. Let us always remember that the retailer is the only gainer 
by the misuse of the terms "domestic" and "imported." 

The war has done at least one great service to America. It has 
demonstrated to the public the ability of our industries to care for our 



538 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [December 

wants, and this proof has come under conditions that at the best have 
been trying and at the worst have been extremely difficult. In order 
that certain points may be developed that will be of interest to you as 
indicating possible lines of research, it may, perhaps, be well to review 
certain of the difficulties that still exist, what progress has been made in 
solving them, which ones have been overcome. 

First in importance comes the question of wool. You all know that 
the military needs have placed great burdens on the available wool 
supply, and, of course, the needs of the army come first, not only in the 
government's program, but in that of the millman and the pubhc as 
well. There is no pose or affectation when a manufacturer or a woman 
consumer says that he or she would rather not use the fabric that the 
soldier needs. However, there have been certain garments and mate- 
rials made up that have passed beyond that stage where they could 
be diverted into war use, and these form what I may style "the first 
line of defense" against scarcity. The increase in our shipping will 
soon release shipping space that will enable a larger supply of wool to 
be brought to America; and I say emphatically that scarcity in the 
sense of a definite want, the possibility of men or women in civil life 
being improperly clothed against the inclemency of the weather, does 
not and cannot exist in America. But scarcity as compared with the 
former abundance does exist and will exist, and discrimination in the 
use of woolens, and economy in their purchase, are matters of a definite 
patriotic value. The question of substitute fabrics is one of great 
interest and one that has received too httle attention either from the 
pubhc or from the trained mill speciahst. 

Custom has settled on wool as the ideal fiber for outer garments. 
This custom has been hallowed by years of observance; and it may be 
true that wool is the best fiber that can be produced in large quantities 
for this purpose, although I am not sure that a strong case from the 
history of fabrics and garments could not be made out for other fibers, 
and I am certain that even if it is the best for the purpose it is not the 
only one. Already our great silk mills are experimenting and have 
perfected a part of their experiments with certain silk substitutes for 
woolen fabric. These are not necessarily exorbitant in price. It is, as 
with woolen fabrics, a question of degree. Certain mills that made 
fabrics for medium-priced garments still continue to make their wool 
substitutes for the same t^'pe of garment, and the mills that serve the 
more expensive garments naturally continue to make more expensive 



1918] AMERICAN TEXTILES 539 

substitutes. This is quite witliin the reahn of good sense and in no 
way draws a comparison between the two sources of supply. 

Everj' woman, either of moderate or of great wealth, should approach 
the subject of garments in the spirit of practical economy. There 
should be no extravagance. However, when the problem has been 
settled as to the purchase of some garment, a woman should follow the 
natural tendency suggested by her financial circimistances and if she 
can afford to buy an expensive costume she should do this in order not 
to place an undue burden on such possible substitutes as are within 
the means of the women who have less money. In other words, if a 
woman who can afford to spend $10 a yard for a beautiful silk duvetyn 
or velours, buys instead a fabric costing $2 or $3, she is thereby dimin- 
ishing the available supply of material for the woman who can only 
afford those prices. The scarcity is not in money at this time; the 
scarcity is in materials. 

I suggested to a manufacturers' association that scientific conserva- 
tion would be materially aided by a careful study of the history of cos- 
tume; that certain tjpes of great charm and utility, employing a limited 
yardage, might be discovered among certain of the skin cutting tribes 
of Siberia and the natives of the PhiHppine Islands. The garments of 
northern China, a country in which the chmatic conditions are some- 
what more rigorous than in the United States, are made from silk with 
a cotton-padded background. These garments are extremely beautiful 
and evidently give as great a protection against the weather as woolen 
garments. It is not wool itself that gives warmth. It is the scale-like 
quaUty of the woolen fiber and its felting quahties that make it a con- 
tainer of the body's natural warmth. 

The men who went on one of the daring expeditions into the South- 
ern Arctic were clothed in garments made from combinations of vege- 
table fibers, and contained no wool. Other instances of a similar nature 
in which costumes of warmth and charm were developed without the 
use of wool could be multiplied indefinitely. The fact has never been 
established on a scientific basis as to which fiber is the most adaptable 
for outer wear, and we should also remember that the custom that 
dictates to us the use of wool for this purpose also formerly dictated 
its use in undergarments as well. 

An Instance of how a custom may become changed through circum- 
stance and still effect no hardship is that furnished by the lack of flax 
incident upon this war. Before then we imagined that for certain pur- 



540 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [December 

poses flax was the only fiber possible. Take, for example, table-cloths — • 
only the cheapest substitutes were made in cotton and then cotton 
yarn of a very doubtful quality was used. When, however, there were 
no linens available, the mills making tablecloths bestirred themselves, 
purchased better grades of cotton yarn, and made tablecloths that in 
most ways answer all the purposes of the linen ones, and we have scarcely 
felt the want of linen. 

The American dye industry is an excellent example of what American 
ingenuity and courage can accomplish. Through achievements that 
must be freely admitted and through carefully prepared propaganda, 
the Germans had created the impression that the chemical dye industry 
could not develop outside of their sphere of interest. But in this as 
in many other of their theories, practice proved them wofully in error. 
It was, however, a curious instance of our public and professional lack 
of scientific information to observe the different reactions from the 
situation. At first all was confusion and dismay. The market for the 
remaining German dyes was simply insane and indeed the prices paid 
for the first American substitutes, often of very inferior quahty, were 
ridiculous. This was bad, but the sequel was even worse. We passed 
from depletion and demoralization to extravagance. The industry 
and the press, and through them the public, began to imagine that in a 
moment the entire problem of dyes had been solved. This over-con- 
fidence did more actual hann than the former lack of behef. 

Since the beginning great advances have been made in the production 
of dyes in America and we may look confidently to the future for even 
higher attainments. However, there are certain colors that require 
toluol as a base, such as bright acid blue which goes to form certain 
shades of taupe, rodent, and beaver. This base has not yet been devel- 
oped for sale in large quantities or at prices that put it within the reach 
of the ordinary purchaser. 

Chrome colors, which are guaranteed to a high degree of fastness, do 
not have the brightness and bloom that we have learned to associate 
with anihne colors. However, for outer garments, chrome colors that 
are reasonably fast to light, would be more desirable than aniline colors 
(whatever their artistic qualities) which would not stand tests of service. 
I think that the matter should be discussed very earnestly with the 
retailer at each purchase, and that the mere assertion by the retailer 
that he cannot guarantee colors because of the condition of American 
dyes, should be gone into sufficiently to find out what colors he can 



1918] AMERICAN TEXTILES 541 

guarantee as being fully up to pre-war conditions. There are many 
such colors, and if the retailer himself does not know them, he can easily 
ascertain them by asking his manufacturer or by referring to any of the 
great dye plants. An attitude of distrust of the entire industry and 
lack of confidence in the future is a great injustice to an industry that 
has done splendid service and that will do splendid service to all Ameri- 
can industries; and failure to study actual conditions — to learn colors 
that are successful and those that are still unreliable — that are still to 
be perfected — is just as great an injustice. 

Whatever substitutes conditions may impel us to use, there is no 
excuse for neglect of artistic quaUties. Beauty and extravagance, 
charm and costliness, are not synon^-mous terms. Simplicity of line 
and design is the very essence of the highest in decorative values. It is 
as a general rule a less labored, less intricate process to make a garment 
or house or picture beautiful than to make it overdecorated. In the 
midst of a world of war, it is the duty of women within these limitations 
to look their best. Ostentation or frivolousness in costume or fabric is 
not in good taste at this time, but neither is undue somberness. 

There is a verj' intimate relationship between bravery and spright- 
liness in chromatic schemes. The soldiers themselves will be the first 
to make this demand. The exigencies of modern warfare require that 
men be clothed all alike and in colors that do not attract. Their colors 
are protective. But the longing for color is so insistent, is so deeply 
embodied in every human being, that soldiers returning, either from 
our great cantonments or from the actual fields of battle, will want to 
see some contrast to the drabness that has surrounded them while in 
active service. 

This hunger for color has been one of the most interesting psychologi- 
cal facts that have been noticed in London and Paris, and in thosewar- 
hardened capitals the lesson has been learned, and the women (within 
the limits of good taste) have dressed smartly and beautifully. The 
early tendency towards aping the soldier's uniform in civil costumes in 
this country' has, I am happy to say, largely disappeared. Women 
who are doing actual service that requires special uniform are, of course, 
equally with the men, entitled to wear it. But as a fashion or vogue of 
the hour, the good sense and taste of the American woman and her 
real patriotism have come to the fore and prevented this travesty on 
our soldiers' costume. 



542 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [December 

PROBLEMS IN CAKE MAKING 

ELIZABETH W. MILLER AND BERNICE ALLEN 

Formerly oj the University of Chicago 

Among the most difficult problems in the cooking courses for inex- 
perienced students are those that come in the baking lessons. This is 
because there are so many factors which may influence the quality of 
the finished product. The lack of uniformity in results obtained even 
when the ingredients are weighed and the baking temperature care- 
fully controlled, is evidence that the manipulation of the batter or 
dough, as well as variations in ingredients, is in many cases 6f great 
importance in determining the texture, size, and shape of the product. 

This is especially true of cakes. Because the number of ingredients 
makes possible considerable variation in manipulation, and because the 
fat, sugar, and eggs are usually contained in such proportions that they 
must affect other qualities than the flavor, cakes offer a wide variety of 
problems for experimental work. For some time classes in this depart- 
ment have been doing such experimental work to determine the effect 
of varying the method of mixing ingredients, the amount of beating 
given the batter, and the proportions of ingredients. The results of 
some of the work are reported in this paper. 

The following recipe for a standard cake was used: 

Weight Measure 

Milk 244 grams (237 cc.) . . 1 cup 

Butter 112 grams \ cup 

Sugar 300 grams H cups 

Egg 96 grams 2 eggs 

Pastrj' flour 300 grams 3 cups 

Phosphate baking powder 18 grams 4 teaspoons 

Flavoring 1 teaspoon 

Salt \ teaspoon 

One-sLxth of the recipe was made up for each experiment. The 
ingredients were weighed, with the exception of salt and flavoring. 
The batter was baked in muffin tins 2 inches in diameter at the base 
and 2 inches tall, at a temperature of 190°C. 

/. Effect of varying the method of combining ingredients. The con- 
ventional method generally employed for combining the ingredients of a 
plain cake is to cream the fat and sugar, stir in the beaten egg, and 
finaUy to add, in portions and alternately, the liquid, and the flour 



1918] PROBLEMS IN CAKE MAKING 543 

sifted with tlie baking powder. Directions frequently put emphasis 
upon the necessity of creaming the butter and sugar thoroughly and 
of beating the batter well before baking. This method is sometimes 
modified by separating the whites and yolks of the eggs and folding the 
stiffly beaten whites into the batter the last thing. 

In contrast with this, the method employed when a commercial 
cake-mLxer is used, of putting all the ingredients together — the softened 
fat, sugar, egg, liquid, and flour sifted with the leavening agent — and 
stirring sufficiently to mix thoroughly is simple and time-saving as well. 
To determine whether or not the elaborate household process pro- 
duces a result commensurate with the time and effort required, cakes 
were made combining the ingredients in four ways: the conventional 
method, the conventional method separating the whites and yollis of 
the eggs, the conventional method softening the fat by warming instead 
of creaming it with the sugar, and the "cake-mixer" method. Since it 
is not practicable to use a commercial cake-mixer with a small quantity 
of batter, the ingredients were all put into a bowl at once and stirred 
with a spoon. 

These methods all gave products that were similar in appearance 
and texture. The standard for a cake made after this recipe is one 
which has a slightly rounded top, a medium fine, even grain, and a 
crumb which is elastic to the touch and soft and delicate in the mouth. 
This sort of product seemed to be more dependent upon the skill of the 
person making the cake than upon the method used. One who had had 
considerable practice in cake-making obtained good results whichever 
method was employed. However, with inexperienced students, the 
"cake-mixer" method, which requires little manipulation, usually gave 
more uniform results than any other. 

Separating the whites and yolks of the eggs is no advantage in this 
recipe. It is important when more eggs and less baking powder are 
used so that the leavening of the cake is dependent upon the air folded 
in with the stiffly beaten whites. Softening the fat by warming instead 
of creaming gives a different appearance to the batter, but has no effect 
on the finished product. This is in accordance with the conclusions 
reached by Miss Wellman' and Miss Milam. = 

//. The effect of beating the hatter. It was frequently observed in 
these experiments that two persons working side by side, weighing the 

' Wellman, Mabel: Journal o] Home Economics, 1 (1909), no. 5, p. 418. 
• Milam, Ava B.: Journal of Home Economics, 4 (1912), no. 3, p. 262. 



544 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [December 

ingredients, using the same method of mixing and baking their cakes in 
the same oven, obtained different results. In one case the cake had a 
coarse, even texture and was flat on top; in the other the texture was 
close, broken sometimes by long tunnels, and the top rose to a peak. 
The conclusion was that the amount of mixing and beating given the 
batter must have varied in the two cases. 

A full recipe of the batter was made up by the "cake-mixer" method 
and stirred just sufficiently to mix the ingredients. A weighed portion 
was baked immediately, a second equal portion was beaten one minute, 
a third two minutes, a fourth five minutes, and a fifth ten minutes 
before baking. The results are shown in Plate I. 

The first cake has a coarse, even texture and a flat top. Such a 
cake crumbles easily, and has a soft crust that is somewhat rough. 
With increased beating the texture becomes closer and there is a tend- 
ency for tunnels to form. In the cakes which were beaten five and ten 
minutes these tunnels are very marked, and in the last cake the texture 
between the turmels is solid and compact. With increased beating, 
also, the cake becomes smaller, the crust is smoother and the top forms 
a pronounced peak. 

To determine whether or not these changes were due to the fact that 
the carbon dio.xide had been lost during the long beating, two other 
mixtures were made up, one containing baking powder and the other 
not. The batter having the leavening was baked immediately without 
any beating. The other was beaten ten minutes, after which the baking 
powder was sprinkled over the top and stirred in. The results are 
shown in Plate IV. 

Beating the batter ten minutes before adding the baking powder 
resulted in a somewhat larger cake similar in appearance to the first 
one, but with a slightly finer texture. This difference in texture was 
especially evident when the cake was eaten. There was not, however, 
sufficient improvement to pay for the effort expended when the beat- 
ing must be done by hand. In adding the baking powder last, care 
must be taken to mix it in thoroughly. Otherwise, the texture will be 
uneven. 

The conclusion that it was loss of carbon dioxide which caused the 
pecuUar texture of the beaten cakes was strengthened by the observa- 
tion that an)' considerable reduction in the amount of baking powder 
produced similar results even in the unbeaten cakes. It has not been 
found advisable to use less baking powder than is recommended on the 




X.i. 1. lialUr unljt':il<ii. 



Xn. >. Hatirr Ijiatrn one iiiiiiulc. 




No. ,S. Batter beaten two minutes. Xo. 4. Baiter bcalen five minute 




No. ,S. Batter beaten ten minutes. 




Ni). I. Cake with one-lialf the amount of No. 2. Cake witli double the amount of 

u^ar — unbeaten and beaten two minutes. sugar — unbeaten and beaten two minutes. 




No. 1. Cake with double the amount 
'g — unbeaten and beaten two minutes. 



No. 2. Cake with three times the amount 
of egg — unbeaten and beaten two minutes. 




No. 1. Batter unbeaten. 
No. 2. Batter beaten ten minutes before baking powder was added. 



1918] PROBLEMS IN CAKE MAKING 545 

manufacturer's label. This will vary somewhat with the kind of bak- 
ing powder, since the weights of one teaspoon of the different powders 
are not the same. 

This series of experiments disproves the old theory which is still 
sometimes taught, that long and vigorous beating is necessary to obtain 
a good cake. We have frequently heard housewives say that whenever 
they took particular pains to make a fine cake, it was sure to be a fail- 
ure. On the other hand, one that had been put together hurriedly 
was usually a success. There is an optimum amount of beating which 
gives the most desirable product, a cake with fine texture but free from 
tunnels. This seems to be from one to two minutes, depending upon 
the vigor with which the beating is done. 

///. The effect of varying the proportions of ingredients. Sugar: The 
proportion of sugar to the other ingredients in the mixture is important 
(see Plate II). The unbeaten cake made with one-half the amount of 
sugar (illustration no. 1) is Hght and well-risen, but the texture is rather 
coarse and bready, and the crust looks like that on a muffin. The cakes 
made with double the amount of sugar (illustration no. 2) have fallen 
badly, the crust is sticky, and the walls surrounding the pores are 
thick instead of thin and transparent as in a cake of good texture. Sim- 
ilar results were obtained in this laboratory with doughnuts.' 

The close relationship that exists between the proportion of sugar and 
the amount of beating that is desirable is also shown in Plate II. The 
cake made with half the usual amount of sugar and beaten two minutes 
is small, and the texture is compact, with large holes shot through it. 
Even this small amount of beating always has a detrimental effect on 
cakes which contain too little sugar. On the other hand, cakes having 
a large proportion of sugar are improved by beating. 

This and other experiments varying the proportion of sugar in this 
recipe have led to the conclusion that increasing the sugar up to a 
certain point improves the texture. It is not possible, however, to 
increase the quantity much above that given without causing the cake 
to fall. The amount of beating necessary to produce the best texture 
is also partly dependent upon the proportion of sugar. The more 
sugar the cake contains the more beating is desirable. 

Egg: A close relationship also seems to exist between the number of 
eggs and the effect of beating. With more egg, the cake is toughened 

' McKee, Mary C: Journal oj Home Economics, 10 (1918), no. 1, p. 18. 



546 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [December 

and there is an increasing tendency to rise to a peak and to form tun- 
nels when the cake is beaten. The tunnels in the cake are usually nar- 
row and converge at the top of the peak. These characteristics are 
shown in Plate III. 

Cakes were also made in which the egg was omitted entirely. These 
were similar to cakes containing a sHght excess of sugar. Those which 
were not beaten had a somewhat sticky crust, were coarse-grained, 
sunken a little in the middle. Beating the batter gave a better texture, 
but this cake containing no egg is impro\-ed by reducing the sugar in 
the standard recipe to one cup. 

The results of this experiment lead to the conclusion that these two 
ingredients, sugar and egg, must be used in such proportions that the 
effect of one will balance that of the other. WMe egg added to the 
batter toughens the cake and increases the tendency for tunnels to 
form, sugar, if not used in excess, gives a fine, soft texture and prevents 
the formation of tunnels. At a time when eggs are expensive cakes 
made with the smaller amount of sugar and no egg are entirely satis- 
factory. 

Fat: Fat is used in cakes to give tenderness and richness of flavor. 
Reducing the fat causes the cake to be tough and, as in the case of 
increased egg, there is a tendency for tunnels to form in the beaten 
cake, although not to so marked a degree. With increasing fat the 
cake becomes very tender, so that it falls to pieces easily, and the edges 
curl over in baking. WTien cut it looks compact and moist. Fat acts 
as a liquid in the batter and it is therefore necessary when increasing 
the amount of fat in the recipe to decrease the liquid proportionately. 
The egg also must be increased, since otherwise the cake will not hold 
its shape. 

The consistency of the fat used in cakes has a marked effect upon the 
texture. Very hard fats produce a fine, close grain similar to a pound 
cake. The cut surface is firm and somewhat resistant to pressure. 
This firmness is due to the hardening of the fat. \Vhen eaten the cakes 
are tender and crumble easily. 

In contrast to these, cakes made ^\^th the oils are hght and spongy, 
and have a loose, coarse texture. They are soft instead of crumbly in 
the mouth. 

Fats of medium consistency, such as butter and oleomargerine, pro- 
duce a texture intermediate between that obtained when the hard fats 
and the oils are used. A texture more nearly approacliing that of 



1918] PROBLEMS IN CAKE MAKING 547 

butter cakes results in the case of cakes made with oils if the liciuid is 
reduced b}- one-sixth to one-fourth. With hard fats reducing the flour 
by one-sixth improves the cake. 



In cake making, manipulation is one of the chief factors in deter- 
mining the quahty of the product. In an ordinar}^ cake the method of 
combining ingredients is not in itself important except as it controls the 
amount of mLxing and beating. There is an optimum amount of beat- 
ing which is desirable, from one to two minutes, depending upon the 
energy with which the beating is done. Less than that gives a coarse 
crumbly texture; more gives a compact texture with tunnels. 

The relation which the various ingredients bear to each other is also 
important. Increasing the sugar up to a certain point makes the tex- 
ture finer; increasing beyond that makes the texture coarse and causes 
the cake to fall. Increasing egg alone toughens the cake and produces 
tuimels with beating. Increasing fat alone makes the cake rich in 
flavor and tender. If used in excess, the cake wUl not hold its shape. 
Neither fat, sugar, nor egg can satisfactorily be increased alone be- 
yond a certain point. All these must be increased together in such pro- 
portions that the efi'ect of the fat and sugar on the one hand will offset 
that of the egg. 

Further experimental work on cakes is being done in this laboratory. 



Now that we are all guests at a common table, a single caterer — 
the Inter-Allied Food Council — by common consent, adjusts the fare. 



548 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOiiucs [December 

WHAT TEMPERATURE IS REACHED INSIDE THE JAR 
DURING HOME CANNING? 

MINNA C. DENTON 

Professor of Home Economics, Lewis Institute. {Ellen H. Richards Fellow in Household 
Administration, University of Chicago, at the time of this study.) 

The charge that spore> of Bacillus botulinus may often survive the 
process of home carming has m recent years lent a new earnestness to 
our search for the answer to the above quest'on. Van Ermenghem, 
discoverer of one of the best-known strains of this bacillus, found that 
its spores were unusually sensitive to heat. Indeed, they were killed 
by heating for 30 minutes at 80°C. (176°F.) or for 15 minutes at 85°C. 
(185°F.). Directions for processing vegetables often call for two to 
three hours' heating of the Jar in a bath of boiling water. But the 
important cjuestion is: How long does it take the center of the mass of 
cold-dipped vegetables inside the jar, to reach the boihng temperature 
of the outside bath, — or rather, to reach a temperature somewhere 
between 98°C. and 100°C.? 

The following trials, made with a mercury thermometer' inserted 
through the cover of a mason (quart) jar, so that the bulb of the ther- 
mometer was placed in the center of the vegetable mass, illustrate some 
of the possibilities. 

Carrots were pared and sliced, were not blanched, but were cold- 
dipped for one minute under the nmning cold water faucet. 435 grams 
were at once packed into a hot glass (quart) jar,- and 465 cc. of boiling 
water, were added. The temperature as indicated by the thermometer 
fell immediately to 75°C. Delay of I5 minutes ensued, so that the 
internal temperature in the (partially) sealed jar was 60°C. at the 
moment when it went into the boiling water bath. This jar was the 
center one of five. The outer vessel was an enamelled iron jar 12 inches 
in diameter and 11 inches deep; it held, besides the jars, 17 quarts of 

' It is, of course, true that such a thermometer indicates only the temperature of the 
liquid surrounding the pieces of vegetable, and not that of the interior of portions of the vege- 
table tissue. But it must be the case that in most instances, when trimming has been care- 
fully done so as to reject all unsound tissues, the source of contamination is on the surface 
of the pieces of vegetable and not in the interior of the tissue. 

- Only about 435 grams of carrots could be packed into the jar when the carrots were 
not blanched, whereas with blanching and close packing, the same jar would hold 700 grams 
of the same carrots. 



1918] TEMPER.\TURE IN JAR DURIXG CANNING 549 

boiling water whose level reached Just above the rubber rings of the 
jars at its lowest (in the moment before replenishing) or well over the 
glass tops otherwise. This boiling water was of course renewed only 
with boiling water. 

In 5 minutes' time,' the temperature in the center of the jar was 80°C. ; 
in 11 minutes' time from the start, it was 90°C.; in 21 minutes' time, 
95°C.; in 45 minutes' time it was 98°C., where it remained during the 
rest of the time of processing. Thus the internal temperature was al 
its maximum during 75 minutes of the two hours' processing time. 

In a second experiment, 700 grams of sUced carrots were blanched hve 
minutes in boiUng water, cold-dipped as above, packed into the hot jar 
and covered with 200 cc. of boihng water. The temperature of the 
boihng water at once fell to 40°C. In 30 minutes after placing the jar 
in the boiling water bath, the temperature in the center was 82°C.; in 
37 minutes it was 87°; in 50 minutes, 92°; in 80 minutes, 98°C. Thus 
we see, that increasing the proportion of vegetable mass (which heats 
through with comparative slowness, partly due to lack of convection 
currents in cellular tissues) and decreasing the added water in the jar, to 
to the extent mentioned above, has almost multiplied by hvo, the time re- 
quired for heat penetration to the center of the jar, in the above instance. 

In coohng, these jars when set in a warm room protected from a draft, 
required at least 25 minu'cs (and sometimes more) before the internal 
temperature fell to 85°C. At the end of two hours, the internal temper- 
ature was 55°C. 

Thus we see that in the second instance mentioned above, where the 
conditions were not as favorable for a speedy sterilization as in the 
first instance, there was still an interval of 115 minutes when the in- 
ternal temperature remained above 80°C. 90 minutes of this sterilizing 
period include the last part of the processing period, 25 minutes of the 
115 include the first part of the coohng period. 

However, it will not be proper to argue from a few experiments, such 
as those from which these two have been selected, that the Bacillus 
botulinus would necessarily be unable to survive a three-hour steriliza- 
tion period. Two important modifying factors must be kept in mind. 
First, a large number of such measurements of internal temperatures is 

'The time was reckoned from the moment of immersing the jar in the water bath. In 
the first experiment \\ minutes was required to bring the bath again to the boiling point; 
in the second experiment, 4 minutes. 



550 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [December 

needed; these should be performed with many different mixtures of 
water and vegetable tissues of different sorts. Second, there is needed 
a large number of experiments showing the death point of spores of 
different strains of Bacillus botulinus under different experimental con- 
ditions. Apparently this is a highly variable organism in some of its 
properties, if we may judge from the existing literature; and it may 
easily be the case, that not all strains are as readily killed as was that of 
Van Ermenghem's "Bacillus botulinus of EUezelles." 

Furthermore, the nature of the medium in which the heating takes 
place may profoundly modify its destructive effect upon bacteria. 
E.g., bacteria are more easily killed by heat when suspended in water 
than in milk; and more easily killed in liquid milk than in the scum 
which forms on the surface of milk heated in an open vessel. Again, 
recent experimental work shows that the presence of starch protects 
yeast cells, to some degree, from heat destruction. Still another in- 
stance: unpublished experiments show that Bacillus botuUnus, when 
heated in a hquefied gelatin medium, has a comparatively great heat 
resistance. One fact, however, does stand out. Spores which are 
more hardy than those of Bacillus botuUnus, or of any disease-producing 
bacteria of which we know, may and undoubtedly do upon some occa- 
sions escape heat destruction in a processing period of one, two, or 
three hours; especially when the conditions are such that 80 minutes of 
that time must be used up in bringing the contents of the jar to the 
boihng temperature. Such hardy organisms as these, may or may not 
grow under the conditions which obtain in the jar after cooling, and the 
unsterile food mass may or may not "spoil." 

From the above experiments, and from other considerations, it is 
evident that two women using the same material and following with 
equal care and intelligence the same directions, may often obtain very 
different degrees of sterilization. The length of time required for the 
contents of a jar to attain a temperature very near the boiling point may 
vary from 30 minutes (initial temperature in the jar, 70°C.) to 100 
minutes, according to the writer's very limited observations; and may 
easily be made to vary more widely than that without departing from 
the directions usually given for canning. With any given period of 
processing, the longer the time required to heat through to the center 
of the mass, the shorter the time remaining for the accomplishment of 
sterilization. Other things bein ', equal, this prehminary heating period 



1918] TEltfPERATTIRE IN JAR DURING CANNING 551 

will be shortened and consequently the sterilization will be made more 
nearly complete, by observing the following conditions: 

1. When the vessel used for holding the bath of boiling water is of 
such size and shape that a considerable mass of water surrounds the 
jars, the sterilization is much more rapid than if a small bath with a 
correspondingly decreased amount of boiling water be used. Thus the 
entrance of the cooler jars does not so greatly check the boiling of the 
bath; and the rate of heat penetration is more rapid. In using a given 
outfit, an excess of boiling water may be secured either by packing 
fewer jars into the same space, or by raising the rack on which the jars 
stand (and also the water level) , so that there is a larger body of water 
beneath. It is usually less convenient to increase considerably the 
mass of water above the jars, for they are not so easily handled at a 
depth of more than two or three inches. 

2. As the directions usually indicate, care should be taken to keep 
the surface of the boiling water well above the covers of the jars being 
sterilized. If this level sinks to the rubber rings, a difference of 1° or 
2°C. may sometimes be observed within the jars. 

3. The longer the cold dip, the colder the water used for dipping, 
and the more thoroughly the plant tissue is chilled, the more greatly 
the process of sterilization is hindered or delayed. 

4. Pint jars will, of course, heat through somewhat more rapidly than 
do quart jars. Under some circumstances, the jars nearest the outside 
of the bath may be much slower in reaching a sterilizing temperature 
than are the jars nearer the center. 

5. The more tightly the cold-dipped vegetables are packed the smaller 
is the amount of boihng water which the jar holds, and the greater is 
the delay in reaching a sterihzing temperature. However, since other 
considerations obviously demand a close pack, it is doubtless wiser in 
most cases to reduce the time and raise the temperature of the "cold" 
dip, rather than to increase the amount of water used in filling the jars. 
To pack loosely means to increase the amount of watery juice remaining 
in the jar at the end of the process, which in turn increases the extrac- 
tion of plant juices and nutriment. This large amount of watery juice, 
being very likely lacking in flavor, is perhaps in greater danger of being 
thrown away or wasted than would be the case with a smaller amount of 
more concentrated juice. 



552 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [December 

In case of those vegetables especially hard to can successfu'ly. how- 
ever, it will be found a distinct advantage to increase the proportion of 
boiling water and reduce the amount of vegetable put into each jar; 
for this will shorten the preliminar}- period of heating and thus increase 
the period of sterilization, without increase of the time of process'ng. 
It then becomes the duty of the dietitian and housewife to de\'ise some 
means of concentrating or othemase utilizing the juice, which under 
these circumstances may contain two-thirds (or even a larger propor- 
tion) of the vegetable nutrients. For, strange to say, many a woman 
who would not think of throwing away a meat broth will, nevertheless, 
discard the vegetable broth which in most instances is a much more 
highl\- nutritious product. 



WHAT ONE DEPARTMENT DID 

ZELL.\ E. BIGELOW 

During the recent outbreak of Spanish influenza at the ^Michigan 
Agricultural CoUege, the Home Economics Di\-ision like those of many 
other colleges and schools had the opportunitj- of using its equipment, 
faculty, and students in a practical and helpful way. 

There were 1300 men on the Campus in the Students' Army Training 
Corps and the \'ocational Detachment. Even though the disease was 
very well controlled in the camp, the shortage of nurses and trained 
dietitians was early felt and the practicability of enlisting the woman 
power of the college was seen by the mihtarj- authorities. 

At 10 c'clock on Saturday morning the request came to the Domestic 
Science Department to take charge of the preparation and serving of 
meals to 120 patients in the military- hospitals. At 3 o'clock the first 
meal was sers"ed. 

The diets were made out by the army nurse in charge and sent to the 
Domestic Science Department, which did all the bujing. The bills 
were charged to the barracks kitchens. 

The work was done by members of the department, assisted by one 
cook and the girls in the senior class. The research laboratory in the 
Woman's Building was used for the preparation of food. The senior 



1918] T^-HAT ONE DEPARTMENT DID 553 

cooker}- classes assisted in its preparation. Here lemonade, choclolate. 
malted milk, creamed chicken, broths, sandwiches, custards, baked 
apples, and other articles of the diet were prepared in large quantities. 

A dispensing kitchen was Lmpro\-ised in the basement of the Horti- 
cultural Building which is verj' near the barracks that were used as 
hospitals. An ice box and three hot plates were installed; trays and 
dishes were obtained from men's society houses and fraternal orders. 
The drawers of the horticulture laboratorj- were stocked with dishes, 
and labeled like a well ordered pantrj'. In this laboratory- two ser- 
geants and six privates were detailed for duty. They washed all dishes 
used in serving the sick, since none of these were taken at any time to 
the preparation kitchen. 

The procedure of ser\-ing a meal was worked out in such a way that 
the food reached the patients while hot and appetizing. The diet for 
the day was prepared in the laboratory- in the Woman's Building. At 
meal hours, 7 a.m.. 12 o'clock, and 5 p.m., orderlies reported there and 
carried the food to the dispensing laboratory- where written orders from 
each ward had been brought during the hours preceding the meal; such 
as, for example, "Barracks B — 4 Ught diets, 7 liquid diets." The trays 
were ready, set with dishes and stiver and marked with their slips. 
Hospital orderlies then began to arrive. They stood in line, stating 
the names of their wards in turn. The senior girls filled the trays, 
while one girl checked each tray by its slip to see that it was complete. 

The dispensing laboratory- was also prepared to ser\-e chocolate, 
egg nog. grape juice, ice cream, broth, and albumin drinks at any time. 
These were ser\"ed to the patients on liquid diets at 10 o'clock and 3 
o'clock, and at 8 o'clock in the evening, in addition to the regular meal 
hours. 

The Domestic Art Department made pajamas, surgeons' coats, face 
masks, arm bands, and pnemnonia jackets. Some of the sewing was 
done during class hours, but much of it in the evening. The girls signed 
up for work at aU hours of the day and for an hour in the evening. 
Ever>' effort was made to meet the requests made each day from the 
hospital for the nimiber of articles required the next day. 

The work done in this emergency was not only of great sers-ice. but 
it was an invaluable experience for the girls who shared in it. 



554 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [December 

SHORT RATIONS IN FRANCE AND ITALY 

The signing of the Armistice lifted the cloud of fifty years, and France 
broke into joy and color and dancing. She walked at last free in the 
sunshine and every good seemed possible at once. Peace, however, 
added nothing to food supplies, and hardship must go on until next 
harvest. Victor Boret, the French Food Controller, announced shortly 
after the Armistice was signed that it would be impossible to increase 
the war-time rations to civilians, but promised lower prices. 

To Italy, peace brought only increased food difficulties as the newly 
acquired territory and prisoners added about 5,000,000 people who must 
be fed. With admirable foresight the Goverimient set aside a great 
store of food for the immediate relief of the redeemed provinces and 
returning prisoners, and prepared to face the situation. 

Rationing is vigorously enforced by the card system and war-time 
allotments of food have been severely cut. The new ration provides 
a monthly allowance of 17 pounds of bread and 13 pounds of other food 
for each person. This is only a pound of food a day and seems very 
little at any time but especially meager in this hour of victory. 



THE COMMON TABLE 

Food, to the average American, used to be a question mainly of pur- 
chasing from the nearest grocer and butcher what appetite and income 
dictated. Where the food came from, how much there was of it in the 
world, how universal its consumption, these questions were none of his 
concern. He could get what he wanted if he could pay for it, and 
nothing else mattered. 

The entrance of America into the world war and the pooling of her 
interests with her associates, changed the whole food situation. This 
change concerned not only governments, but the individual. We 
became internationally minded in the matter of food. With the signing 
of the armistice there has come a still greater change. Millions of 
people from a score of nations are asking for food. Today every Ameri- 
can must, as never before, look on himself as a citizen of the world — a 
hungry world — when deciding what shall go on his table. Before he 



1918] MISS MARTHA PATTERSON 555 

helps himself, he must stop and ask, "\Miat is there to eat?" and "How 
many people are there to eat it?" Our common table has enlarged. 
All the world is sitting about it. There is barely food enough to go 
aroimd. Only the selfish will use more than they need. If one uses 
too much, another must go without. 



MISS MARTHA PATTERSON 

IN MEMORIAM 

!Miss ^lartha Patterson lived a life of devotion to duty and service to 
humanity that was beautiful in its simplicity. In reading the follow- 
ing brief sketch one sees between the lines the opportunities for gradual 
development that resulted in the forceful personahty that all among 
whom she worked had come to value and to love. 

Miss Martha Patterson spent her childhood and early life with her 
parents on a farm in Central Illinois. Here she finished the eight 
grades of the elementary school and then at once entered the lUinois 
State Normal University at Normal, 111. 

After two years of study she taught for a few years in country schools 
with marked success. She then returned to finish her course in the 
normal school. A few months before she had completed the work she 
accepted a position as primary teacher in the public schools of Evans- 
ton, 111. Her work here was very successful. Her gentle, sympathetic 
nature admirably fitted her to deal with little children. She found 
special pleasure in helping mediocre children to find themselves. She 
filled the timid ones with courage, and with confidence in themselves 
and the world in which they lived. 

After about ten years of service in the Evanston schools she resigned 
her position in order to go home and care for her invahd mother. While 
at home she finished her course in the normal school. 

In 1909 she entered Teachers' College at Columbia University, where 
she majored in home economics, taking the degree of B.S. in 1911. 

The following fall she began her work as Head of the Department of 
Home Economics at The Girls' Technical Institute, Montevallo, Ala- 
bama. In the genial atmosphere of this southern school she found the 



556 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [December 

opportunity to work out some of the big, democratic ideas in which she 
so firmly behcved. 

During the meeting of the Southern Home Economics Association at 
Blue Ridge, N. C, the last week in August a memorial service was 
held for Miss Patterson, one of its most active and best beloved 
charter members and at the time of her death vice-president of the 
Association. 

The meeting was presided over by Miss Nell Tappan, who told of her 
personal association with Miss Patterson while an extension worker 
under her at the Alabama Girls' Technical School. She characterized 
Miss Patterson as a deep thinker, a hard worker, and a wise counselor, 
who possessed a quiet dignity, a genial, modest womanliness, and a 
patient, abiding faith in others that made her charming. Miss Mary 
Feminear, State Home Demonstration Agent of Alabama, spoke of 
Miss Patterson's influential position as a leader to whom educators over 
the state looked for guidance in matters of home economics. She was 
the founder and the first president of the Alabama Home Economics 
Association, and was responsible for the installation of the Home Eco- 
nomics Department in the University of Alabama and for the appoint- 
ment of a committee to formulate uniform courses of study for the high 
schools and the elementary schools of the state. 

Miss McMahon, who was a fellow faculty member, described her as a 
gentle, unassuming, forceful woman who was esteemed and loved by 
faculty and students. Mrs. Henrietta Calvin, Miss Ada Field, and 
Miss Catharine Mulligan also spoke briefly of her contributions to 
home economics and her devotion to duty. A telegram from Miss 
Carrie Alberta Lyford, an intimate friend of Miss Patterson, empha- 
sized the loveliness of her character and the loss which the cause of home 
economics has sustained in her death. 



FOR THE HOMEMAKER 

NEW YORK COMMUNITY CENTERS 

K.A.THERINE GLO\"ER 

New York City went community canning last summer. It went 
community canning on a scale that broke all records. Eleven thou- 
sand women left their individual cook stoves, tied on Hoover aprons, 
rolled up their sleeves, and bending over a common cooperative pot put 
up 31,149 quarts of fruits and vegetables. 

Theyproved that the spirit of neighborliness, of "get together" is just 
as strong in women who are shut off from each other's interests by the 
artificial barriers of apartment walls as in those whose chrysanthemum 
beds run over into the cosmos of their next-door neighbor. 

The crust of reserve broke down under the common desire to pro- 
vision a family and save food in war times. And so bound together 
were many of the women through this community venture that com- 
munity canning will merge into community cooking through the winter. 
But that is getting ahead of the story. 

The canning centers of New York were first suggested by the Bureau 
of Conservation of the Federal Food Board and New York State Food 
Commission, but in their working out they enlisted the cooperation also 
of the Board of Education, the Food Council of Greater New York, 
and the Department of Public Markets. 

The kitchens of sixteen public schools of the city were thrown open 
as canning centers and the Board of Education provided a teacher for 
each center, furnished janitor service and gas, and appropriated $1000 
for supplies. The work was organized and superintended by the mem- 
bers of the Bureau of Conservation stafl. The Bureau furnished funds 
to buy the jars at wholesale, and to pro\ade all necessary' additional 
equipment. 

Members of the Food Council took the responsibihty of securing 
and maintaining the attendance of the centers, keeping accounts and 
records, and generallj' served as valuable aides to the teachers in charge. 

557 



558 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [December 

To the Department of Public Markets fell the duty of providing the 
materials for canning. The original plan was to centralize the buying 
for all the kitchens, but this was not accomplished for lack of adquate 
deliver).- service. Arrangements were made with neighborhood dealers 
to furnish material at the lowest possible cost. In some cases, valiant 
aides of the Food Council regularly went to big market centers at four 
o'clock on the mornings when the canning centers were open, in order 
to cull the best offerings for canning. 

In some of the outlying centers women brought their own materials 
or else purchased them themselves and brought them to the center, 
but only a negligible number did this. Most of them were only too 
glad to have the benefit of large quantity buying. 

The women registered a week in advance for the canning privilege and 
were usually told what vegetable and fruit they might expect to can. 
Of course if market conditions were unfavorable for the products 
planned something else was substituted, but there was little dissatis- 
faction on this score. 

The work in the centers was done in community fashion. Every- 
body worked together, on apportioned tasks, and at the end the out-put 
was divided. Only when a woman brought her own materials did 
she do her work individual!}-. The actual cost of the food materials 
purchased was divided by the number of jars yielded, and each woman 
paid for the contents of her jars. If sugar was used she paid in addi- 
tion one cent per quart for sweetening. 

Figuring on the market price of canned goods, it was estimated at 
the end of the season that on the 5,000 quarts of beans put up at the 
centers there was a saving of from $1100 to $1700; and on the peaches 
and plums canned, a saving of $1400 to $2500. All the materials put 
up represented a saving of between $4000 and $5000, a significant 
object lesson in thrift. 

It is not the tangible results of the work, however, which tell the real 
story. For every jar put up in the kitchen, several more were put up 
in the homes of those who attended, by women who for the most 
part had done little canning before or perhaps had done it in 
haphazard fashion. It was the educational side of the work, the lesson 
of working side by side at a common task with a standard to measure 
up to that left its mark on the women who came to the centers. The 
monotony of working alone, the lack of stimulus of competition or the 
reward of a competent judgment when the task is over, vanished in 



1918] A RED CROSS CHRISTMAS 559 

the community center. Social barriers, too, crumbled under the demo- 
cratic contacts and the eagerness of women to do well the task at hand. 

One incident proves the spirit of thrift that sprang up and thrived in 
the centers. One group of women who had been canning left their peach 
peelings and their corn syrup cans in plain sight of the next group who 
came in to can. One of the women in the new group said: "With those 
peelings and the syrup scraped from the cans, I beheve we could make a 
good jam." 

Into the pot went peelings and rescued syrup. The product was 
sometliing to be proud of. But when group No. 1 returned to the 
kitchen and saw it they had a feehng of proprietorship. Were not their 
peehngs and their syrup used? 

The decision called for the fine tact of the teacher, but it is needless 
to say that the judgment was in fa^•or of the group who thought of 
rescuing the peelings. 

The feeling of comradeship which the centers developed and the 
eagerness of the women to go on doing things together and to learn 
the best way of doing them is responsible for the merging of at least 
three of the centers into permanent cooking centers in three settle- 
ments in crowded districts, instead of in the schools. 

Three times a week these are open for cooperative cooking, or, in 
reality, for a cooking lesson under one of the demonstrators of the Bureau 
of Conservation, differing from the ordinary lesson in that at its close 
Mrs. Smith will take her wonderfully evolved stew or her loaf of Vic- 
tor}^ bread home forathe family, as part of their dinner. These coopera- 
tive centers in this way will not only teach conservation cooking but 
will furnish a channel for the expression of the community spirit awak- 
ened in the women. 



A RED CROSS CHRISTISIAS 

This is the age of fairy tales come true. 

We have been reading — and doubting — for centuries how the magic 
knight flew to fight the dragon. And the names of Guynemer and 
Lufberry — immortal and beloved — forever prove their truth. We have 
read, with many a grain of salt, how the good fairy king and queen 



560 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [December 

flew over waters wide to visit friendly monarchs. But since King 
Albert and Queen Elizabeth went from Belgium to England through 
the air those who still remain skeptical of the old lore simply go on the 
list as blind or mediaeval. As for the invisible robe that even our 
children no longer credit, whole army transports have been moved 
under it, in plain sight of the enemy but unseen by him. 

It is all so wonderful that we have pretty well lost sight of the magic 
qualities of a less tangible though no less real phase of American war- 
work — the transportation across the ocean of mercy, motherhood, the 
spirit of home. 

That is the truest magic of all, that a spiritual thing could be carried 
across a sea and become a mighty power on the very scene of war. 

How hopelessly, for all her bravery, the mother of old sent her son to 
battle. Wounds or imprisonment were only part of her fears. He had 
enemies in camp, as well as across the battle line, and they were im- 
proper living, physical and moral, loneliness, disease, bad food, neglect. 
And it was explained to the mother that that was war, and that nothing 
e'se could be expected. 

But in this war American motherhood has gone to the front with the 
boy, in spite of the fact that mothers were forbidden the very continent 
on whose ground their sons fought, and has fed, clothed, tended, nursed, 
befriended each of them. 

The Red Cross is grateful that it has been an instrument in this 
latter day magic. But it recognizes itself as merely the instrument, 
and knows that the magic itself had its origin in the heart and will of 
the American people. 

The Red Cross is conducting a Christmas Roll Call, and is asking 
that the response to it be unanimous. It is doing this because it knows 
that it can go only as far as the American people send it, have mercy 
on as many as they bid, express the spirit they give it to express, and 
build its ideals as high as they aspire. If all of America is not behind 
the Red Cross then by so much must it fall short of the goal it desires 
to reach. 

The magic that gave men wings and that concealed armies had for 
its highest purpose the slaying of the great red dragon of this modern 
world. The magic that made tenderness and love live on the battle 
field, in canteen and rest house and hospital goes even farther in its 
aspirations. The Red Cross wants the American people to say the 
word that shall not only enable it to root out every whit of needless 



1918] USE OF baker's and homemade bread 561 

suffering left in the trail of the European war, but that shall bid it turn 
its mobilized forces against the foe at home — against the useless sickness 
and disease, against the remediable conditions that assail the life of the 
home as mercilessly as ever German hordes assailed the Kfe of nations. 

Surely nothing can compensate us for this war but that we should be 
able to write at the end of it "And the wicked wizard was destroyed 
and all the people lived happily for ever after." If, because we have 
put in motion huge forces to safeguard the soldiers who fought in France 
as soldiers were never safeguarded before, we learn to make equally 
mighty efforts against social distress and enemies to health here, we shall 
have won a double victory. 

This is the Christmas season and the war is over. Dare we unite in 
the wish "Peace on earth, good will to men," with anything less than 
our whole hearts? And that means that all the magic of this magic 
age shall now be brought to bear on conquering misery's own self here, 
as well as its agents abroad. It is for this the Red Cross asks all America 
to enlist as its members, for only in this way will it have back of it the 
whole of that spirit that made the unconditional surrender of armed 
wrong ine\atable. 



A COMPARISON OF THE USE OF BAKER'S AND HOMEMADE 
BREAD AMONG DIFFERENT NATIONALITIES 
IN THE UNITED STATES 

The question as to the extent to which baker's bread is used in our 
larger cities and whether the use of baker's bread is greater among 
certain nationalities than others has been for a long time a subject of 
interest to the United States Food Administration, and the following 
facts have been gathered. 

An inquiry, first taken up with teachers of home economics in New 
York City, met with such a cordial response and resulted in such inter- 
esting data that questionnaires were immediately sent to 63 other 
cities. 36 cities reported; the remaining 27 received the questionnaires 
after the close of the school term. 

In New York City 11 nationahties with a total of 25,639 families 
are represented in the data given; the Russian Jews, Americans, Italians, 



562 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [December 

and Germans predominating. English, Irish, Scandinavians, Polish, 
Austrians, Hungarians, and negroes are also included. Of the number 
reporting, 6 per cent bake all their bread, 54 per cent buy all their bread, 
and 40 per cent buy only a part of their bread. Assuming that in the 
latter class of families, one-half of the bread is bought and one-half is 
homemade, it is estimated that 26 per cent of the bread used in these 
families is homemade compared with 74 per cent of baker's bread. To 
put it in another way, if the number of families baking part of their 
bread is divided equally between the families that bake all their bread 
and those that buy all their bread, it is seen that the number of families 
of all nationaHties who buy their bread is far greater than the number 
who bake their bread. Among the families of each nationality the 
percentage of those who buy is always over 50 per cent. With the 
exception of the EngUsh and Polish families the percentage runs as 
high as from 71 to 79. In detail Americans buy 78 per cent of their 
bread, Enghsh 63 per cent, Russian Jews 72 per cent, Itahans 75 per 
cent, Scandina\'ians 74 per cent, Irish 79 per cent, Germans 76 per cent- 
Polish 59 per cent, Austrians and Hungarians 72 per cent, colored 71 
per cent. 

There are, however, 5 cities reporting where the greater number 
of families bake their bread, namely: Boston, Mass.; Duluth, Minn.; 
Grand Rapids, Mich.; Meriden, Conn.; and Richmond, Va. Boston 
buying 46 per cent, Duluth 31 per cent, Grand Rapids 38 per cent, 
Meriden 47 per cent, Richmond 35 per cent. There are other cities 
in wliich only sKghtly more than half of the families reported buy their 
bread. But of the total number of families for all the cities, 66 per cent 
buy their bread while 34 per cent bake it at home. 

Of the total number of famihes reporting in all the cities, 37 per cent 
are American. The percentage of Americans using baker's bread 
differs only by 1 per cent from the percentage of families of all national- 
ities in all the cities who use baker's bread, Americans buying 66 per 
cent; other nationalities 65 per cent. 

Anaong the foreign population the Russian Jews predominate and 
show the highest percentage of families that buy their bread, 69 per 
cent. Among the Germans 68 per cent buy their bread, and of the 
Italians and Irish 64 per cent. Among the negroes, however, the per- 
centage of those that buy their bread is 51 against 49 that bake their 
bread. Of the following nationahties taken together Austrians and 



1918] 



CHILDREN S HEALTH CODE 



563 



Hungarians, Scandinavians, English, Polish, Bohemian, French, Ar- 
menian, and Dutch, 61 per cent bake their bread. 

Of .American famihes only 15 per cent are reported as using wholly 
homemade bread, while 48 per cent use baker's bread entirely, and 37 
per cent use both. 

It would be interesting to compare the different results if the data 
were gathered from country districts or small towns. 



CHILDREN'S HE.'ILTH CODE 

AIR Inside air is never so good as that of outdoors. 

Be in the open air every minute that you can. 
SUNSHINE Sunshine stops the growth of the germs of sickness. 

Let the sun shine freely into your home and upon your 

clothing. 
SLEEP Children need at least 10 hours' sleep each night. Sleep 

with the bedroom window open top and bottom. 
BATHING Bathe at least twice a week, better once a day. 
PLAY Play every day, winter as well as summer, and always 

outdoors if you can. 
MILK ^lilk is the very best food for growing children. Drink 

three or four glasses of it every day. 
DRESS Dress comfortably and Hghtly. Keep warm by exercise, 

play, and deep breathing. 
WATER Drink three or four glasses of water every day. 

FOOD Wash your hands always before eating. Eat slowly 

and chew all your food well. 
MOUTH Keep these clean, as they are the windows and doors 

TEETH for disease germs; use tooth brush and handkerchiefs 

NOSE often. 

ALCOHOL Alcohol and tobacco stop your full growth and prevent 
TOBACCO your being swift and sure. 

— Pillsburgh Public Schools, Department of Hygiene. 



EDITORIAL 

Our New Program. A difficult program lies before the home eco- 
nomics teacher for the coming year. She must teach food conserva- 
tion, not by the substitution of one article for another, but by showing 
how to use only the necessary amount of food. She must teach cloth- 
ing thrift when the wool shortage has ceased. She must teach true 
economy when every advertiser is urging his goods upon a too wilhng 
public. She must teach economy of labor when the fear of unemploy- 
ment is before many. 

Yet in some ways her task is easy. She has an audience who have 
been practicing thrift; who have become accustomed to the elimina- 
tion of waste, to the salvage of all material; who have learned to judge 
between values; who have become open minded. Those who have 
changed their habits of eating, of clothing, of spending in order to win 
the war are prepared to acquire new knowledge, and to make perma- 
nent the best of the lessons they have learned. The opportunity lies 
before us to exercise leadership in a way that we have never done be- 
fore. If we can gain a new vision of the needs of the world, a new 
purpose to serve those needs, a new inspiration in fulfilhng this purpose, 
we shall be able to make a real contribution toward the reconstruction 
of the world. 

Home Economics Acquitted. Home economics courses and 
teachers have been criticized from time to time as too theoretical — too 
lacking in really practical knowledge — too "scientific," with the word 
used as a term of reproach. The work done during the influenza epi- 
demic should certainly free them forever from such a charge. The article 
published in this number telling what one department did is only one out 
of hundreds that could have been written. Heads of Home Economics 
Departments not only organized and directed relief work, but with their 
own hands prepared food for emergency hospitals, the student army 
training corps, and the families and individuals who would have been 
helpless without their aid. Dr. Amy Daniels left her important re- 
search work in order to cook for 400. Edna White, President of the 
564 



1918] THE QUESTION BOX 565 

American Home Economics Association, whose organizing abUity and 
remarkable work in Ohio have estabHshed her leadership, took personal 
charge of the relief kitchen at Ohio State. These instances might be 
multiphed over and over again. 

Ph3^sicians and nurses have gained a new respect for departments 
that can direct research, and that can also "go into the kitchen" for a 
big piece of piiilanthropic work. 



THE QUESTION BOX 

Question: Into what does milk decompose on being heated to 56°C. 
or over? Why is boiled milk constipating? Are both classes of so- 
called vitamines affected by heat? If so to what degree and at what 
temperature? 

Answer: It has been shown by several investigators that volatile 
sulphides and ammonia in small amounts are liberated when mUk is 
heated. The hberation of these substances, however, apparently does 
not detract from the nutritive value of the milk. 

There is no adequate e.xplanation of the cause of the constipating 
effects of boiled milk. It has recently been shown that the amount 
of citric acid in cow's milk is not materially changed during heating, so 
that the theory held by some, that the constipating efl"ect of boiled milk 
is due to the smaller amount of citric acid, is no longer tenable; nor 
does it seem altogether reasonable that constipation may be the result 
of the finer curd formed during the digestion of boiled milk, for the 
curd formed during the digestion of human milk and goat's milk is 
equally iine. 

Most investigators agree that the anti-polyneuritic vitamine (water- 
soluble B.) is not materially affected at the boiling temperature in 
neutral or acid media. Carefully controlled experiments suggest that 
at temperatures over 100°C. there may be some destruction, as well as 
in an alkaUne medium at 100°C. Chick and Hume report that exposure 
for 40 minutes to a temperature of about 113° C. decreases the efficiency 
of the water-soluble vitamine about one-half as compared with the un- 
heated control; exposure for two hours at 118°C.-124°C. reduces its 
power to less than one-fourth. Other investigators, on the other hand. 



566 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [December 

have been able to get normal growth in animals on foods in which 
the only source of the vitamine was from foods heated to 120°C. for 
one and one-quarter hours. 

The^fat-soluble \'itamine, associated particularly with milk fat and 
green leaves, appears to be materially affected by long continued treat- 
ment at 100°C. Butter fat heated for four hours at 100°C. produced 
no growth in rats fed rations containing this as the sole source, whereas 
other rats fed a similar ration containing unheated butter fat grew 
normally. 

Rettger: Amer. Jour. Physiol., 6, 1902, 450. 

Schulz: Ztschr. f. physiol. Chem., 25, 1898, 16. 

Hogan: Jour. Biol. Chem., 30, 1917, 115. 

Sommer, and Hart: Jour. Biol. Chem., 35, 313. 

Chick and Hume: Proceedings of the Royal Society. B. 1917, 90, 60. 

McCollum, Simmonds, and Pitz: Jour. Biol. Chem., 29, 1917, 521. 

Steenbock, Boutwell, and Kent: Jour. Biol. Chem., 35, 1918, 517. 

Recent investigations point to the conclusion that there is also an 
antineuritic vitamine, found in raw vegetables and fruits, especially 
the citrus fruits. This appears to be materially affected by drying, 
boiling at high temperatures, or long continued boiling at 100°C., and 
by dilute alkalies. 

Experimental Scurvy of the Guinea Pig in Relation to Diet. Cohen 
and Mendel. Jour. Biol. Chem., 35, 1918, 425. 

The Antiscorbutic Properties of Dessicated and Cooked Vegetables. 
Givens and Cohen. Jour. Biol. Chem., 36, 1918, 127. 

The Scurvy of Guinea Pigs. The E.xperimental Dietary. Hess 
and Unger. Jour. Biol. Chem., 35, 1918, 479. 

The Scurvy of Guinea Pigs. Experiments on the Effect of the 
Addition of Fruits and Vegetables to the Dietary. Hess and Unger. 
Jour. Biol. Chem., 35, 1918, 487. 

The Antiscorbutic Value of Cow's Milk. Chick and Hume. Biochem. 
Jour., 12, 1918, 121. 

The Differential Behavior of the Antineuritic and Antiscorbutic 
Factors toward Adsorbents. Harden and Zilva. Biochem. Jour., 12, 
1918, 93. 

The Susceptibility of the Antiscorbutic Principle to Alkalinity. 
Harden and Zilva. Lancet, Sept. 7, 1918. 



BOOKS AND LITERATURE 

Any book or periodical mentioned in this department may be obtained through the 
JotTENAL OF HouE EcoNoincs if the Journal price is listed. 

the table of contents, inasmuch as the 
other foodstuffs are all represented in the 
chapter headings, it will readily be seen 
that the chapters which discuss milk, eggs, 
meats, poultry and game, and fish give 
ample consideration to this important 
topic. 

In tlie sequence of chapters the authors 
have made no attempt to designate an 
order of procedure which should be followed 
by the teacher employing it as a text. It is 
presented in a logical sequence; but it will 
scr\-e its best purpose in the present day 
teaching of foods if the teacher will rear- 
range the material in the order which meets 
the demands of her own class. 

The experiments and the suggestions for 
laboratory practice at the close of the 
chapters are very helpful especially to 
the beginning teacher, though no attempt 
has been made to exhaust the possibilities. 

The book is not a cook book. It con- 
tains no recipes because the authors have 
found that teachers of food preparation 
prefer to use those which they have found 
satisfactory in their own experience. 

Perhaps the unique feature of the book is 
the discriminating choice of material and 
the clear and definite statement of it. It 
contains an excellent glossary, and the 
illustrations are well chosen and helpful. 

"Food: Its Composition and its Prepara- 
tion" is well adapted to the work of home 
economics classes in high school, either as a 
reference book, or as a supplementary text. 
It is also valuable for women's clubs and 
normal school classes treating the subject 
in its elementary phases. 

Cora M. Winchell, 
Teachers Colkgf, N. Y. City. 
567 



Food: Its Composition and Preparation. By 
Mary T. Dowd and Jean D. Jameson. 
New York: John Wiley and Sons, Inc., 
1918, pp. 173. $1.25. 

The authors of this "text book for classes 
in household science" have stated their 
aim in writing it in the following paragraph 
in the preface: "In presenting this book for 
the consideration of the public, the authors 
are well aware of the present ver>' general 
practice of furnishing all necessarj' instruc- 
tions and theor>- to domestic science classes 
through the medium of notes taken by the 
students. Indeed it is to the conviction, 
resulting from long experience with the 
problem, of the futiUty and inefficiency of 
this practice that the book owes its origin. 
Much of the time thus spent by the teacher 
in dictating, and by the student in writing, 
can and ought to be saved for more profit- 
able use." 

The teacher of home economics will rec- 
ognize in the book much of the material 
which she has used with her classes in the 
way described above and will welcome it in 
this available form. The long experience 
of the authors has enabled them to select 
wisely the material essential to the various 
phases of food preparation. They have 
organized it well, and have subdivided it in 
such a way as to render it very accessible 
for class discussion. It is di\dded into par- 
agraphs numbered consecutively through- 
out the book, as well as into chapters deal- 
ing with the various foodstuffs and the 
composition and preparation of foods most 
representative of them. 

Although the reader may be perplexed 
by the absence of a chapter on protein in 



568 



THE JOXniNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS 



[December 



Food for the Sick. By Solomon Strouse 
and Maud A. Perry, Philadelphia: W. 
B. Saunders Co., 1917, pp. 270. $1.50. 

Although there are numerous books on 
dietetics, most of them being written espe- 
cially for the physician or the nurse, this vol- 
ume seems to meet a need not previously 
filled. 

This book, intended for the physician and 
patient, is sufficiently clear to meet the needs 
of the laity and yet sufficiently comprehen- 
sive to meet the needs of the busy practi- 
tioner who needs a practical guide book for 
imparting instructions to patients. It is also 
equally valuable to the nurse and the dieti- 
tian. 

The authors are well prepared to handle 
the subject, as both are connected with the 
staff of the Michael Reese Hospital, Chicago, 
Dr. Strouse being associate attending physi- 
cian and Miss Perry the dietitian. They 
believe that the patient should be instructed 
in the principles underljang the treatment of 
his case, thus becoming an assistant to the 
doctor, rather than merely a blind follower. 

Following a chapter on Food and Its 
Uses are treatises on various diseases which 
yield most readily to dietetic treatment. 
These include chapters on diabetes mellitus, 
gout, diseases of the kidney, diseases of the 
heart, diseases of the liver, diseases of the 
respiratory system, diseases of the skin, 
fevers, obesity, anaemia, scurvy, and goiter. 
The symptoms and causes, as well as the 
dietetic treatment are carefully outlined. 
Where there are diilerences in the treatment 
practiced by reputable physicians, these dif- 
ferent methods are given with the reasons, 
leaving it to the physician to choose his own 
method in prescribing to his patient. 

The book represents the 'latest word' in 
dietetic treatment of disease, although the 
chapter on Food and Its Uses does omit the 
latest findings in foods, i.e., vitamines. 
There are a few statements with which we 
would differ, but on the whole the book is 
so well written, and the subjects so well 
handled, that we would heartily recommend 
it to those interested in dietetics from a 
teaching or a practical standpoint. 

Lenna F. Coopeb. 



Cookery Under Rations. By M. M. Mit- 
chell. New York and London: Long- 
mans, Green & Co., 1918, pp. 65. $0.75. 
This pamphlet containing 200 recipes is 
interesting in comparison with the conser- 
vation cook books issued in this country. 
The suggestions in the introduction for 
economy in cookery are most of them famil- 
iar to us, though in slightly different form. 
A few, such as the Pot Oven made from the 
Irish Cooking Pot, are particularly interest- 
ing in showing what can be done when 
there is so serious a shortage of fuel that 
it must be saved in every possible way. 

Directions for increasing the quantity of 
margarine or butter for table use by beating 
in milk cooked with flour, those for using 
bacon rind and cheese rind, and for using 
potato and tapioca in the "fatless pastry 
rules" given later in the book emphasize 
the fact of the shortage of fat in England. 
The meat recipes are headed with "3 to 6 
coupons required" or "J coupon required." 
Everything is saved; even the skins from 
boiled potatoes are put into the soup pot. 
Often a recipe gives the direction to add a 
little oil or fat, "if it can be spared." 

The recipes, like those in most English 
cookery books, are given by weight — why 
is any suggestion of this kind considered 
so impractical in this countr>? 

The American teacher or housekeeper 
might find a number of suggestions in this 
little book, especially for meat-saving and 
vegetable dishes. 

The work claims only to be a cookery 
book, so it is not surprising to find some 
misstatements when it deals with dietetic 
problems. 

Constructive Sewing. Books II, III and 
IV. By Marv E. Fuller. Indian- 
apolis: Industrial Book and Equipment 
Company. (The 1918 edition combines 
books I and II into volume I, and books 
in and IV into volume II. Price, 80 
cents per volume.) 
The first book of this series was reviewed 

in the March, 1917, Journal. 

In the three additional books Miss Fuller 

has given a comprehensive course in sewing 



1918] 



BOOKS AND LITERATURE 



569 



adapted to girls of high school age. The 
author has continued to present through- 
out the series much valuable subject matter 
beside the technical sewing. Book II con- 
tains a number of drafts of patterns for 
garments, rather more than the average 
girl in high school should take time to 
learn when other studies measure relatively 
of greater value. However, the teacher 
might select from those presented certain 
drafts of value to her particular group. 
Crocheting and knitting are interesting 
features of Book III. Book IV introduces 
the pupil to costume design, embroidery, 
and the infants' layette in addition to the 
usual dressmaking and millinery found in 
most high school text books. 

Miss FuUer has succeeded in presenting 
the subject matter in a natural way, and 
one reads the books with a feeling that she 
has made the subject much less stereotyped 
and far more interesting than most books 
which fall in this group. 

Anna M. Cooley, 
Teachers College, N. Y. City. 

Welfare and Housing. By J. E. Hutton. 
New York: Longmans, Green and Com- 
pany, 1918, pp. VIII -f- 192, pis. 8, figs. 2. 

This book, based upon the practical expe- 
rience of a man who for three years has been 
engaged in coping with the problems attend- 
ant upon the housing and feeding of many 
thousands of munitions workers of the Vic- 
kers factories (England), gives many points 
of interest to home economics workers. 

In stating his purpose in publishing this 
book the author says, "It has been pointed 
out to me in various influential quarters, that 
a useful purpose would be served if I de- 
scribed in practical and categorical form the 
methods that are employed at the numerous 
hostels and canteens which have been cre- 
ated during the war period in connection with 
the Vickers factories." Nothing has hith- 
erto been published in the way of data as to 
practical working details and the cost of 
housing, catering, and other necessities of the 
time. Two chapters, one on catering and 
one on the canteen are of especial interest 
at this time since so many home economics 



workers have undertaken the management 
of such places. The one on catering gives 
valuable hints as to detail, management, and 
methods of accounting. Some sample die- 
taries and menus are also given. 

The management of canteens is dealt with 
in a separate chapter. Points on the struc- 
ture and equipment of canteens are dis- 
cussed. Some sample menus of the food 
served at the Vickers canteen are given. 

Transactions of the Eighth Annual Meeting 
of the American Association for the Study 
and Prevention of Infant Mortality. Pub- 
lished by the American Association for 
the Study and Prevention of Infant Mor- 
tality, 1211 Cathedral Street, Baltimore, 
Md., 1918, pp. 327. $3.00 plus postage. 

The Proceedings are divided into four 
parts, representing the four sessions. The 
papers, discussions, and reports include 
the following subjects: War ser\nce for 
the prevention of infant mortality; Red 
Cross child welfare work in France; Care of 
women during pregnancy and labor in 
England, France, and Germany; Obstetrics 
and Pediatrics — prenatal care, cooperation 
of obstetrician and pediatrician, care and dis- 
eases of the new-born, care of children of 
pre-school age; Eugenics — the effect of 
venereal diseases on infant mortality, vene- 
real disease and marriage, prevention of 
venereal disease as a war measure; Vital and 
Social Statistics — birth registration, regis- 
tration and reporting of still births; Prog- 
ress of infant and maternal welfare work in 
rural communities; Public school education 
for the prevention of infant mortality; Red 
Cross Home Service Institutes; Town and 
Country Nursing Service; Methods of 
financing infant welfare activities. 

"The Education of College and University 
Women for Giving Instruction in the Care 
of Infants, Children, and Mothers," by 
Alice Ravenhill, and "Extension Courses in 
Public Schools for Adult Women in the 
Care and Feeding of Children," by Mary H. 
Mayer, appear under the section on Public 
School Education for the Prevention of 
Infant Mortality. 



570 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [December 

PAMPHLETS RECEIVED 

Issued by the United States Food Administration: 
Universal Victory Bread. September, 1918. 
Preserving Vegetables by Salting, Drying, and Storing. September, 1918. 

Issued by the U. S. Department of Labor, Children's Bureau: 
The Public Health Nurse. Children's Year Leaflet No. 6, Bureau Publication No. 47. 

Issued by the Department of the Interior, Bureau of Education, in Cooperation with 
the United States Food Administration : 
Lessons in Comnuinity and National Life. Series A, for the upper classes of the high 

school; B, for first class high school and upper grades elementary school; C, for the 

intermediate grades elementary school. 

Issued by the United States Department of Agriculture: 
Digestibility of Protein Supplied by Soy-Bean and Peanut Press-Cake Flours, Bulletin No. 

717. 
Standards for Milled Rice. Markets Doc. 15. 

Issued by the United States Public Health Service: 
Dried Milk Powder. Reprint No. 473 from the Public Health Reports. 
Epidemic Influenza (Spanish Influenza). Supplement No. ii to the Public Health Reports. 
"Spanish Influenza," "Three-Day Fever," "The Flu." Supplement No. 34 to the Public 

Health Reports. 
Malaria Control. Reprint No. 476 from the Public Health Reports. 
State and Federal Cooperation in Combating the Venereal Diseases. Reprint No. 474 from the 

Public Health Reports. 
Venereal Disease Control. Reprint No. 477 from the Public Health Reports. 

Issued by the publishers listed: 

Glucose for Household Use. Canada Food Board, Ottawa, August, 1918. 

Food Dept. Special Bulletin, Vol. V, No. 4, 1918, Agricultural Experiment Station, .'Agricul- 
tural College, N. D. (Contains article on "Shall We Eat Whole Wheat Bread?" and 
one on "Softening Hard Waters.") 

Home Curing of Pork. Bulletin No. 11, Connecticut Agricultural College Extension Seri^ice. 

The Commonwealth. Vol. 5, No. 8. Massachusetts State Dept. of Health. (Contains 
articles on Child Care.) 

Health News. Public Health Nursing number. August, 1918, Bulletin, New York State 
Department of Health. (September number contains articles on Saving Babies, Chil- 
dren's Year, etc.) 

Evening Industrial Schools. Bulletin No. 18, Trade and Industrial Series No. 2. Federal 
Board for Vocational Education, Washington. 

Vocational Recreation in Indiana, 1916. Vol. Ill, No. 5, Bulletin of the E.xtension Division, 
Indiana University, Bloomington. 

War and Family Solidarity. Publication C. O. 54, Russell Sage Foundation, New York 
City. Price 5 cents. 

War-Time Lessons for Sclwols. Vol. XIV, No. 5, The Hampton Bulletin, The Hampton 
Normal and .Agricultural Institute, Hampton, Va. 



1918] BIBLIOGRAPHY OF HOME ECONOMICS 571 

BIBLIOGR.\PHY OF HOME ECONOMICS 

PERIODICAL LITERATURE 

Foods and Nuteition 

The Choice between Adequate and Inadequate Diets, as Made by Rats. T. B. Osborne 
and L. B. Mendel, Jour. Biol. Ckem., 35 (1918), pp. 19-27. A further contribution bearing 
on the question of the reliability of natural choice in selection of diet. 

The Efficiency of Maize Protein in Adult Human Nutrition. H. C. Sherman and J. C. 
Winters, Jour. Biol. Chem., 35 (1918), pp. 301-311. Report, including six tables, of experi- 
ments where maize was substituted for wheat in the dietary, the maize representing the 
main part of the food taken. 

The Dietary Qualities of Barley. H. Steenbock, Hazel E. Kent, and J. C. Baker, Jour. 
Biol. Chem., 35 (1918), pp. 61-75. Report of feeding experiments with rats to determine 
nutritive properties of the barley kernel — 20 charts. 

Pre Lactic .^cid in Sour Milk. L. L. Van Slyke, and J. C. Baker, Jour. Biol. Chem., 35 
(1918), pp. 147-178. Technical paper dealing with the degree of acidity developing in sour 
milk, and the state in which lactic acid exists. 

Effict of Heat on the Citric Acid Content of Milk. Isolation of Citric Acid from Milk. 
H. H. Sommers, and E. B. Hart, Jour. Biol. Chem. 35 (1918), pp. 313-318. A study to 
determine the changes possibly caused in citric acid of milk by heating, which might have a 
bearing on its anti-scorbutic properties. 

Fat Soluble Vitamine. H. Steenbock, P. W. Bontwell, and Hazel E. Kent, Jour. Biol. 
Chem., 35 (1918), pp. 517-525. A study of the stability of the fat soluble vitamine. 

The Scurvy of Guinea Pigs. I. Experimental Dietaries. II. Experiments on the 
Effect of the Addition of Fruits and Vegetables to the Dietarj-. A. F. Hess, and L. J. Unger, 
Jour. Biol. Chem., 35 (1918), pp. 479-496. A study of anti-scorbutic properties of foods 
which have been subjected to various kinds of treatment. 

Experimental Scurvy of the Guinea Pig in Relation to the Diet. B. Cohen and L. B. 
Mendel, Jour. Biol .Chem., 35 (1918), pp. 425-453. A study to ascertain whether experi- 
mental scurvy may be produced at will in the guinea pig, and to investigate further some of 
the dietarj- features of the problem. 

The Food Value of Eulachon. M. R. Daughters, Jour. Biol. Chem., 35 (1918), pp. 297- 
299. Report of analyses of an edible fish resembling smelt which is found in marine waters 
along the Pacific coast. 

Experiments on the Utilization of Nitrogen, Calcium, and Magnesium in Diets Contain- 
ing Carrots and Spinach. H. B. McClugage, and L. B. Mendel, Jour. Biol. Chem., 35 (1918), 
pp. 353-366. A contribution to our general knowledge of availability of nitrogen and salts 
through studies of two foods. 

Studies in Calcium and Magnesium Metabolism. V. Further Observations on the 
Effect of Acid and Other Dietary Factors. M. H. Givens, Jour. Biol. Chem., 35 (1918), 
pp. 241-251. Brief paper including three tables. 

Agricultural Utilization of Frozen and Rotten Potatoes. H. Ducomet, Compt. rend, 
acad. agr. France, 3 (1918), pp. 716-18. Chem. Abst. (1918), p. 1708. 

Some New and Interesting Vegetable Foods and Fruits. Charles H. LaWall, Amer. 
Jour. Pharm., 91 (1918), pp. 169-82. 

Comparison of Pro.ximate and Mineral Analysis of Desiccated Skim Milk with Normal 
Cow Milk. Journ. Indus. Eng. Chem., 10 (1918), pp. 295-7. 

Dried Milk Powder. Amer. Food Jour., Oct. 1918, p. 577. 



572 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [December 

Coconut Products. Editor. Amer. Food Jour., Oct. 1918, p. 779. 
The Necessity of Dairying During the War. Oscar Erf, Amer. Food Jour., Oct. 1918, 
p. 586. 

Food Prospects. Charles Ryan, Amer. Food Jour., Oct. 1918, p. 585. 
Coffee Shop or Coffee Room. Hotel Monthly, Oct. 1918, p. 67. 
Revolutionizing the Dining Room. Hotel Monthly, Oct. 1918, p. 64. 

Miscellaneous 

The Estimation of Art. Ra)Tnond Wyer, Int. Studio, July. 

Modem School of Printing. Tokyo Exhibit of Jap. Printings, Int. Studio, Sept. 

The Influence of Art on Industry. Decor. Furnisher, .^ug. 

Industrial Education in a Small City. Ind. Arts, Aug. 

War Time Activities in the Schools. Ind. Arts, Oct. 

Traming of Vocational Teachers. R. H. Rodgers, Ind. Arts, Aug. 

A Suggestion for Preparing the Public to Like Art. Good Furniture, July. 

Systems of Industrial Education. Ind. Arts, Aug. 

The Newest Books on Decoration. Decor. Furnisher, Sept. 

Houses from Bams. Bouse Beau., Sept. 

A Combination of Arts and Crafts in Detroit. Touchstone, Sept. 

Quaint and Simple Dutch Colonial Houses. House Beau., Sept. 

Building Atmosphere into the House. House Beau., Sept. 

Small Rooms. House Beau., Sept. 

Electricity in the House. House Beau., Sept. 

Happy Hours by the Fireplace. House Beau., Sept. 

Finishing the Small Apartment. Vogue, Sept. 15. 

Picturesque Modem Roofs. Touchstone, Aug. 

Books on Colonial Architecture. Arch. Record, July. 

Hand Made War Rugs. McCalls, Sept. 

Rugs for the Summer House. Touchstone, Aug. 

Making Furniture for the Domestic Science Laboratory. A. R. Nichols, Ind. Arts, 
Oct. 

Industrial Arts During the War. (Posters and Woven Bags). Ind. Arts, Oct. 

Equipment for Bedside Occupation for Men. Lewis Haas, Ind. Arts, Oct. 

A War Home in War Times. House Beau. Sept. 

Copper Lantems. Milwaukee. Ind. Arts, Oct. 

Wood Block Prints. Int. Studio, Sept. 

Toy Making for Santa Claus and Uncle Sam. Ind. Arts, Oct. 

The Use of Sewing Machine .\ttachments. Ind. Arts, Oct. 

A Public School Conducted Picture Show for Rural Recreation and Education. B. A. 
Auchinbaugh, Educ. Admin, and Supervision, May. 

The State Normal School and the Problem of Child Health. W. S. Small, Educ. Admin. 
and Supervision, June. 

Character Education. David Snedden, Educ. Admin, and Supervision, June. 

Getting a Good Start in Sewing. Janet Cation, Indus. Arts Mag., Sept. 

The War Garden Movement. R. H. Wilson, Educ. Admin, and Supervision, June. 



NEWS FROM THE FIELD 



In accordance with its custom the Amer- 
ican Home Economics Association will 
hold a meeting in Chicago in connection with 
the Division of Superintendence of the N. E. 
A. There will be two double sessions Feb- 
ruary 27 and 28. The meeting of the Council 
will be held on February 26. Mrs. Calvin, 
the chairman of the program committee of 
the Association, is planning that the program 
shall be especially related to the work of 
the public schools. The headquarters of the 
Association will be The Congress Hotel, 
the headquarters of the N. E. A. 

Pratt Institute School of Household 
Science and Arts had to move half its 
student quarters on a few days' notice in 
Septemb( r in order that the Household 
Arts building might be made into barracks 
for the S. A. T. C. None of the teacher 
training work was affected, but all the trade 
classes were moved. The trade dress- 
making was given quarters in large adjoin- 
ing rooms formerly used for architectural 
drawing. These rooms are divided only by 
partitions made of lockers, and doorways 
are without doors. The lighting is excel- 
lent, and the rooms are much more like 
trade quarters than the former rooms, 
which were a heritage from the discontinued 
high school. The inconveniences of admin- 
istration are more than met by the better 
conditions for trade work. 

Because of the heavy demand for insti- 
tutional workers, Pratt Institute will start 
a new class in January, 1919. Classes 
ordinarily begin in September only. The 
School of Household Science and Arts like 
all other schools gi%nng institutional train- 
ing, finds it impossible to fill half of the 
positions that come to it. Members of this 
January class can take the three months 
probationary work in an institution in the 



summer, completing the school work in 
December, 1919. 

The State Leaders of Home Demon- 
stration Agents, Ofiice of Extension Work, 
South, are to meet in Washington, January 
2 to 7, 1919. 

The School of Household Arts of the 
University of Cincinnati, is now reorgan- 
ized to comply with the requirements for 
the training of vocational teachers in home 
economics. 

With this end in view it now has a staff 
of instructors which include the following: 
Grace I. Williams, B.S., A.M. (Columbia), 
.'\ssistant Professor of Foods and Nutrition; 
Helen Hay Hahn, B.S. (Columbia), As- 
sistant Professor of Domestic Art; Grace 
Gordon Hood, B.S., A.M. (Columbia), .As- 
sistant Professor of Household Arts Educa- 
tion; Jane Cape, B.S. (Wisconsin), Instruc- 
tor in Dietetics; Leonora Neuffer, Ph.D. 
(University of Cincinnati), Instructor in 
Chemistry. 

The School is looking fonvard to ad- 
ditional members to the staff who will take 
charge of the practice teaching and institu- 
tional management. 

Work in Some Southern Colleges. At 

the Florida State College for W'omen 
special courses in home economics have 
been given ever since the declaration of war 
for all non-home economics students who 
wished to take lessons in food consen-ation 
and production. Besides this a conserva- 
tion short course was given to the women 
of the state and representatives from 3.S of 
the 55 counties were present. In June, 
1918, a short course for country girls was 
held. Forty-two girls representing as 
many counties were present. In Septem- 



573 



574 



THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS 



[December 



ber, 1918, a course called The War Work 
College for Women was held at the same 
time as the meeting of the Home Demon- 
stration Agents. This was remarkably 
successful. 

A successful War College was also held 
at the University of Texas. 

The University of Georgia organized a 
department of Home Economics in 1918, 
with Miss Mary Creswell in charge. 

At the Annual Meeting of the District 
of Columbia Home Economics Associa- 
tion the following oflicers were unanimously 
reelected: President, Miss Emma S. Jacobs; 
Vice-president, Mrs. H. P. Springer; Corre- 
sponding Secretary, Miss EUen Marshall 
Rugg; Recording Secretary, Miss Ester 
Jonas; Treasurer, Miss Elizabeth Bache. 

A resolution from the Housekeepers Alli- 
ance to the effect that the organizations 
unite in their public work for the ensuing 
year, in the interest of efficiency and con- 
servation, was adopted. 

The Conservation of Clothing was pre- 
sented by Mrs. Charlotte White Lee, and was 
followed by a lively discussion from the floor. 
Standardization of Women's Clothing was 
presented in a paper by Miss Ida O'Neal. 

Home Economics Club Work in Massa- 
chusetts. Massachusetts has had the past 
season 202 home making club members with 
a total enrollment of 2,980; of this number 
1,506 completed all work, and 39 of the club 
groups were 100 per cent groups and finished 
all work required by all members. The 
club members produced 40,306 loaves of 
bread, and members of the bread club 
also made 1,890 garments. Mary McKeon, 
Wakefield's champion bread club girl, baked 
304 loaves of bread. 

In the State sewing club work these facts 
are interesting: The sewing club had 1,653 
members; of these 1,448 belonged to the 
bread clubs also; 1,942 sewing club girls 
reported that they enlisted and put to work 
other girls who were not members of their 
group. Public demonstrations in garment 



making and sewing were given by 32 of the 
girls. 

The sewing club girls of Massachusetts 
prepared and delivered to the American 
Red Cross 18,297 pieces or garments, at a 
otal cost of $1,427.91. 

Home Demonstration Work in Oregon. 

Home cook-stove dryers have come into 
verj' general use in home demonstration 
agent counties in Oregon. In one section 
dainty boxes of home-dried fruits have been 
prepared for Christmas gifts, and the chil- 
dren are learning to use the dried fruits 
instead of candy. 

In one count}' where 710 women enrolled 
in the classes and clubs organized by the 
home demonstration agent 233 household 
account books were placed because of the 
interest created in thrift and home manage- 
ment. 

In another county the women are mak- 
ing homemade driers, homemade fireless 
cookers, and homemade iceless refrigerators. 
One woman found that an investment of 
50 cents in a dish drainer and wire dish- 
cloth for pots and pans saved her ten min- 
utes of the time required to do the dishes 
after each meal, or 30 minutes a day. In 
a year she figured this time, if accumulated, 
would give two weeks, of 12 hours a day, 
leisure. Was the investment worth while? 

Miss Louise Caldwell, a member of the 

Home Economics faculty of Kansas State 
Agricultural College, died from influenza, 
October 25, in New York City, while she 
was there on leave of absence doing gradu- 
ate work at Columbia University. Mrs. 
Van Zile writes: "We not only feel keenly 
our personal loss but also the loss to the 
Home Economics movement of one who 
promised to be a distinctive leader. Miss 
Caldwell was a woman full of life, energy, 
and determination, was ambitious and of 
unusual natural ability, and her work on 
our faculty was a distinct contribution to 
home economics. She possessed those rare 
qualities of personality and character as to 
endear her to all those with whom she was 
associated." 



INDEX TO VOLUME X 



Accounting: see Budget 

Accounts, College students', 457 

Adams, Lucille Wheeler. Jelly making 

with sugar savers, 503 
Adams, Maude Gregory. Home project 

work in vocational home economics in 

secondary' schools, 358 
Addams, Jane. The world's food supply 

and woman's obligation, 389 
Alabama Home Economics Association,* 

341 
Alois, Mary. Housekeeping in wartime, 

73 
Allen, Bernice. Problems in cake mak- 
ing, 542 
Allen, Edith. .\ comparison between 

canning and drj-ing, 223 
American Association for the Study and 

Prevention of Infant Mortality,* 145; 

Review of transactions, 569 
American .•\ssociation of Agricultural Col- 
leges and Experiment Stations,* 532 
American Dietetic Association,* 47, 531 
American Home Economics Association 

Meetings; 47*, 95* 187,* 194,* 241,* 

380, 435,* 573* 
.\merican Red Cross: Editorial, 187; Food 

of prisoners of war, 510; News, 94 and 

244. See also Red Cross 
.\merican textiles, 533 
Americanism the spirit of costume design, 

207 
Analytical study of some varieties of white 

goods, 33 
Annual meeting (A. H. E. A.) at Atlantic 

City,* 241 
.•\nnual session of the Alabama Home Eco- 
nomics Association,* 194 



Announcements: Ellen H. Richards fellow- 
ship, 188; Southern Home Economics 
Association meeting, 334; Thrift by 
Household Accounting, 38 

.\nother method of sterilizing glassware, 
379 

Arnold, SAR.^ua Louise. Grace at table, 
frontispiece, AprU; Learning the lesson 
of food conservation, 255 

Association of Prison Reform,* 94 

ArwATER, Helen W. The woman's com- 
mittee survey of agencies for the sale 
of cooked food, 419 

B 

Backing up the boy in khaki,* 146 

Belgium, The food of, 293 

Bibliography of home economics, 45, 89, 
142, 191, 239, 289, 339, 385, 433, 481, 
529, 571 

BiERY, Rosa. Teaching food values in 
the elementary schools, 353 

BiGELOW, Zella E. What one depart- 
ment did, 552 

Bishop, Elizabeth L., Increase in living 
costs, 57 

Blood, Alice F. Teaching food values, 
302 

Blunt, Katharine. Vegetable oils and 
their use in cooking, 23 

Book Reviews: 

American Women and the World War, 

528 
Baby's food. The, 139 
Basic quantity food tables, 43 
Belgian cook book. The, 336 
Book of com cookery, The, 45 
Chemistry of food and nutrition, 383 
Child's food garden. The, 237 
Constructive sewing, 568 



■ Those starred are news notes 



575 



576 



THE JOtTRNAL OT HOME ECONOMICS 



[December 



Book Reviews — Continued: 

Cookery under rations, 568 
Cooking and sewing outline, 286 
Cooperation the hope of the consumer, 

477 
Corn cook book, The, 286 
Cost of food. The, 336 
Department store merchandise man- 
uals, 236 
Everyday foods in war time, 383 
Everywoman's canning book, 429 
Food and the war, 527 
Food demonstration work for con- 
gested city neighborhoods, 139 
Food for the sick, 568 
Food guide for war service at home, 527 
Food in war time, 285 
Food; its composition and prepara- 
tion, 567 
Food poisoning, 43 
Food primer for the home, 429 
Food problem, The, 139 
Food problems, 235 
Health first, 384 
High school cookery book, 430 
History of ornament, ancient and 

medieval, 189 
Home garden, The, 237 
Home nurse's handbook of practical 

nursing, 140 
Household budget. The, 235 
Household management, 189 
How to make the garden pay, 237 
Industrial arithmetic for girls, 479 
Kitchenette cookerj-, 43 
Lessons in food values and economical 

menus, 43 
Manual of household accounts, 190 
Meals for 5 on S6 a week, 43 
Mechanics of the household, 335 
Modern milk problem. The, 87 
Our schools in war time and after, 384 
Practical cook book, 430 
School and home gardening, 237 
Small family cook book, 430 
Star%'ation treatment of diabetes, 478 
Story of the Sargent Industrial School 

at Beacon, N. Y., The, 88 
Successful canning and preser\-ing, 285 



Thrift clothing, 430 
Transactions o? the eighth annual 
meeting of the A. A. S. P. I. M., 569 
War economy in food, 45 
War food, 44 

War-time breads and cakes, 336 
Welfare and housing, 569 
W'heatless and meatless days, 286 
Wheatless and meatless menus and 

recipes, 286 
World's food. The, 87 

Bower, Sarah Elizabeth. The patriotic 
potato, 314 

Bradley, Alice. Modifying your cook 
book to meet present conditions, 219 

Bread: Comparison of use of homemade 
and baker's, 561. See also Cookery 

Bread card from France, 259 

Budget: College students' accounts, 457 
Conser\-ation and the food budget, 363 
Teaching the budget to children, 495 
Teaching the clothing budget, 437. 
See also Thrift 

Burt, Emily Rose. The friends of Cap- 
tain Sugar, 408 



Cafeteria: The Food Administration, 411; 
Hostess house cafeteria, 463 

Cajori, Florian. Utilization of some 
nuts as food, 304 

Cake making. Problems in, 542 

Caldwell, Louise,* 574 

Canadian University course in household 
science,* 387 

Canning and Preserving: Comparison be- 
tween canning and drying, 223; Con- 
sideration of the canning problem, 323; 
Jelly making with sugar savers, 503; 
Kitchen tests for pectin in jelly mak- 
ing, 520; Spoilage (Question Box) 86; 
WTiat temperature is reached inside 
the jar during home canning, 548; 
Wild crabapple for jelly making, 471 

Cation, Janet G. Teaching the clothing 
budget, 437 

Changing a peace time ration for wartime, 
371 



1918] 



INDEX TO VOLUME X 



577 



Charters, W. W. The project in home 
economics teacliing, 1 14 

Cheap homemade soy bean meal for dia- 
betics, 64 

Chicago food consenation bureau, 518 

Children's health code, 563 

Christmas, A Red Cross, 559 

Christmas, 1918, frontispiece, December 

Cleanliness: Five filthy fingers, 468 

Clothing: Americanism the spirit of cos- 
tume design, 207; Clothing situation, 
401; Editorial, 524; Standardized dress, 
426; Teacliing the clothing budget, 
437; What we shall wear this year and 
next, 125. See also Textiles 

Clothing situation, 401 

Clubs: Conser\-ation and club work, 120; 
Gas masque, 469; Marketing clubs of 
Pittsburgh, 27; World's food supply 
and woman's obligation, 389 

College (methods and cost of living): A 
dietary study at Vassar, 97; College 
students' accounts, 457 

College degree in home demonstration 
work,* 532 

College students' accounts, 457 

Comment and Discussion: Alternating sew- 
ing and cooking, 525; Cooperative ven- 
ture, 234; Dietary study at Vassar, 474; 
Psychology of "do and don't," 137; 
Scope of home economics, 40 

Common table. The, 554 

Community centers. New York, 557 

Community Work: See Social work 

Comparison between canning and drying, 
223 

Comparison of the use of baker's and home- 
made bread among different nationali- 
ties in the United States, 561 

Connecticut Home Economics Association,* 
193 

Conser%'ation: Chicago food conservation 
bureau, 518; Conservation and club 
work, 120; Conservation and the food 
budget, 363; Commeal gingerbread, 
32; Do you know commeal, 30; Econ- 
omy sugar bowl, 357; Food card, 21; 
Food conservation drive in a high 



school, 71; Food control 245; Food of 
Belgium, 293; Help the housewife, 129; 
Housekeeping in war time, 73; Learn- 
ing the lesson of food conservation, 
255; Modif>-ing your cook book to 
meet present conditions, 219; My 
friend in France tells me, 268; New- 
ration (editorial), 135; Ourselves or 
the Allies, 260; Present food situation, 
513; Salvaging food containers, 377; 
What retail merchants are doing for 
food conservation, 264; \ATieat bread 
and the world's food, 515; Wheat flour 
allowance, 183; Wheatless breads and 
cakes, 185; Work of the library in 
food conservation, 266; World's food 
supply and woman's obligation, 389. 
See also Canning; Emergency; Food 
Administration; Substitutes 
Conservation and the food budget, 363 
Conser\'ation and club work, 120 
Consen-ation is imperative, frontispiece, 

November 
Conservation of tin, 466 
Conser\'ing woman power in war time, 171 
Consideration of the canning problem, 323 
Cooked food service, 419 
Cookery: Fat absorbtion in fr>-ing dough- 
nuts, 18; Modifying your cook book to 
meet present conditions, 219; Nutri- 
tious vegetable soups, SO; Problems in 
cake making, 542; Red Man's uses of 
Indian com, 444; Some experiments 
with wheat substitutes, 348; Study of 
yeast bread with substitute flours, 272; 
Vegetable oils and their use in cooking, 
23; Wheatless cake and shortcake, 282 
Coombs, Helen. Increase in Ux-ing costs, 57 
Cooperation: A cooperative venture, 234; 
How cooperation is being applied in a 
far westem university, 460; Marketing 
clubs of Pittsburgh, 27; What retail 
merchants are doing for food conser\'a- 
tion, 264; Sur\ey of agencies for sale 
of cooked food, 419. See also Social 
Work 
Com: Meaning of word, 522; Red Man's 
uses of, 444 



578 



THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS 



[December 



Commeal (Uses of), 30, 32, 444 
Commeal gingerbread, 32 
Cost of Living: Housekeeping in war time, 
73; Increase in living costs, 57; Study 
of cost of living in working class fami- 
lies in Roxbury, Mass., 147 
Course for health instructors,* 387 
Courses in food conser\^ation,* 95 
Crabapple: See Canning and Preserving 
Crawford, M. D. C. American textiles, 
533 

D 

Denton, Minna. How much food does it 
take to supply us with the calcium we 
need, 168; Kitchen tests for pectin in 
jelly making, 520; What temperature 
is reached inside the jar during home 
canning, 548 

Diet: Cheap homemade soy bean meal for 
diabetics, 64; Dietar>- study atVassar, 
97; How much food does it take to 
supply the calcium we need, 168; 
Some essentials to a safe diet, 49; 
Work of dietitian in Canadian mili- 
tary hospitals, 108. See also Diges- 
tion ; Food Values 

Dietarj- study at Vassar College, 97; See 
also Comment and Discussion, 474 

Dietitian sen-ice at home, 485 

Digestion: Utilization of some nuts as 
food, 304. See also Diet 

Dinner guests, frontispiece, August 

District of Columbia Home Economics 
Association,* 574 

Do you know commeal, 30 

Doing my level best, 133 

Domestic Art: See Clothing; Textiles 

Domestic Science organizer for New Zea- 
land,* 47 

Domestic service, For better, 424 

Drj-ing: See Canning and Preserving 

Du BosE, Clarence. Doing my level 
best, 133 



Economical buying, 177 
Economy sugar bowl, 357 



Editorial: American Home Economics 
Association, reaffirmed policy, 380; Bar- 
rel on the corner, 473; Buying, 50-50, 
136; Children's food and the food 
:idministration, 283; Day's food in war 
and peace, The, 334; Emergency com- 
mission in education, 523; Home eco- 
nomics in emergency work, 564; Home 
service work of the Red Cross, 187; 
Need for nurses, 473; New ration, 135; 
Our new program, 564; Protest (dress), 
524; Science and experience, 39; Tnie 
way to stop use of food stuffs in bi'ew- 
ing, 283; United States child labor law 
unconstitutional, 380; Voluntary ra- 
tion, 85; What is wheat, 284; Why not 
join (A. H. E. A.),418 
Education: See Study and Teaching 
Educational war service campaign,* 436 
Eleventh annual meeting of the .\merican 

Home Economics .'Association,* 435 
EUen H. Richards Fellowship Fund, *342, 

188 
Emergency Work: Editorial, 523, 564; 
What one department did, 552. See 
also Conservation; Food Administra- 
tion 
Experiment in teaching citizenship, 311 
Extension Work: See Rural Work; Social 
Work 



Farm home study tours,* 388 

Farmers' week at Ohio State University,* 
193 

Farnum, Martha. An analytical study of 
some varieties of white goods, 33 

Fat absorption in frying doughnuts, 18 

Fats: Fat absorption in frjang doughnuts, 
18; Fat and calories, 471; Vegetable 
oils and their use in cooking, 23 

Federal Board for Vocational Education,* 
91 

Fitzgerald, Claudia. The Food Admin- 
istration cafeteria, 411 

Five filthy fingers, 468 

Flour, mixed, 469 



1918] 



INDEX TO VOLUME X 



579 



Food Administration, The United States: 
Cafeteria, 411; Courses in food con- 
ser%'ation,* 95; Do you know corn- 
meal, 30; Food card, 21; Frontispiece, 
March; How you can help, frontispiece 
September; Office of Home Economics 
and the United States Food Adminis- 
tration, 280; Present food situation, 
513; Ration card, 85; Wheat flour al- 
lowance, 183; WTieatless breads and 
cakes, 185 

Food Administration cafeteria, 411 

Food conser\'ation drive in a high school, 71 

Food conservation on street comers,* 532 

Food control, 245 

Food in France during the last days of the 
war, 516 

Food of Belgium, 293 

Food of prisoners of war, 510 

Food shop of Women's Educational and 
Industrial Union, Boston,* 292 

Food situation, 513 

Food Values: Calcium in food, 168; Chang- 
ing a peace time ration for war time, 
371; Economical buying, 177; Fat and 
calories, 471; Points in selecting meals, 
374; Quick method of calculating food 
values, 212; ShaU we buy milk or 
cream, 379; Teaching food values, 295, 
302, 353; What to teach the public 
regarding food values, 195. Sec also 
Cooker)'; Diet 

For better domestic ser\'ice, 424 

France: Food in, during the last days of the 
war, 516; My friend in, tells me, 268; 
Short rations in France and Italy, 554 

Friends of Captain Sugar, 408 

Fuel: Comparative costs, 162 



Gas masque, 469 

Genung, Elizabeth F. A consideration 
of the canning problem, 323 

Glover, Katherine. New York Com- 
munity centers, 557 

GooDSPEED, Helen C. Teaching the bud- 
get to children, 495 



Grace at table, frontispiece, April 
Gr.aham, Helen. Home economics teacher 

in rural schools, 157 
Graves, Lulu. Dietitian ser\'ice at home, 

485 
Gray, Cor.^. Some experiments with 

wheat substitutes, 348 
Gr.\y, Georgia. The Red Cross and the 

high school sewing course, 414 
Gray, Greta. A lesson in economical 

buying, 177 
Griggs, M.ary A. A dietarj' study at 

Vassar College, 97 
Gross, Irma. A food conservation drive 

in a high school, 71 
Guerrier, Edith. The work of the 

library in food conservation, 266 

H 

Harcum, Cornelia. Menus of the ancient 
Roman world, 343 

Health code. Children's, 563 

Help the housewife, 129 

Hen-Toh, Wyandot. Mon-dah-min and 
the Red Man's world old uses of Indian 
com as food, 444 

Home demonstration assistants,* 92 

Home demonstration work in Oregon,* 574 

Home Economics: Comment and Discus- 
sion, 40. See also Study and Teaching 

Home Economics Association of Greater 
New York,* 93 

Home economics club work in Massachu- 
setts,* 574 

Home economics in public schools under 
war conditions, 369 

Home economics teacher in the rural school, 
157 

Home grown foods, 515 

Homemade: Homemade and baker's bread, 
The use of, 561 ; Soy bean meal, 64 

Home project work in vocational home 
economics in secondary schools, 358 

Home service,* 244 

Honorary members,* 483 



580 



THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS 



[December 



Hoover, Herbert. Food control, 245; 

Letters to colleges and college women, 

frontispiece, March 
Hopkins, Marion E. The hostess houes 

cafeteria, 463 
Hopkins, Mary Alden. Conserving woman 

power in war time, 171 
Hostess house cafeteria, 463 
Household Management: Household thrift, 

181; Lesson in economical bujing, 177; 

Time required for housework in a 

family of 5 with small children, 226 
Household physics and practice cottage 

work, 162 
Household thrift, 181 
Housekeeping in war time, 73 
How can I save sugar on a two-pound 

ration, 428 
How cooperation is being applied in a far 

western university, 460 
How much food does it take to supply us 

with the calcium we need, 168 
How you can help, frontispiece, September 
Hunt, Caroline L. Changing a peace 

time ration for war time, 371; A quick 

method of calculating food values, 212 



Increase in living costs, 57 

Indian squaws organize to study foods,* 388 

Industrial Education: See Study and 
Teaching 

Institution Management: Dietary study 
at Vassar, 97; Dietitian service at 
home, 487; School lunch work in Ohio, 
490; Work of dietitian in Canadian 
military hospitals, 108 

International Scientific Committee, The, 
462 

Iowa Home Economics Association,* 91 



Jelly. See Canning and Preserving 
Jelly making with sugar savers, 503 
Johnson, Alice A. Home economics in 
the public schools under war condi- 
tions, 369 



Johnson, Alma Y. The marketing clubs 
of Pittsburgh, 27 



Kauffman, Treva E. School lunch work 

in Ohio, 490 
Kellogg, Vernon. The food of Belgium, 

293 
KiNNE, Helen, The professional services 

of, 174 
Kitchen tests for pectin in jelly making, 520 
Krueger, Jean. Conser\'ation and the 

food budget, 363 



Langworthy, C. F. Teaching food values, 

295 
Learning the lesson of food conservation, 

255 
Lesson in economical buying, 177 
Library, The work of, in food conservation, 

266 
Loflin, Ethel. Jelly making with sugar 

savers, 503 

M 

McCollum, E. V. Some essentials to a 
safe diet, 49; What to teach the public 
concerning food values, 195 

McKee, Mary C. Fat absorption in fry- 
ing doughnuts, 18 

McKinnon, Jean G. The Office of Home 
Economics and the United States Food 
Administration, 280 

MacLeod, Annil Loltise. A dietary 
study of Vassar College, 97 

McLeod, Sara. College students' ac- 
counts, 457 

McTavish, Ruby. A study of ginghams, 
321 

Marketing clubs of Pittsburgh, 27 

Martindale, Katherine. The wild crab- 
apple for jelly making, 471 

IMeaning of the word com, 522 

Menus: Housekeeping in war time, 73; 
Nutritious vegetable soups, SO; Points 
in selecting meals, 374 



1918] 



INDEX TO VOLUME X 



581 



Menus of the ancient Roman world, 343 
Merchants, \\'hat retail, are doing for food 

conservation, 264 
Merrill, Sara. What retail merchants 

are doing for food consenation, 264 
Milk. Shall we buy milk or cream, 379 
Miller, Elizabeth. A cheaj) homemade 

soy bean meal for diabetics, 64; Prob- 
lems in cake making, 542 
MaLER, Ethelw"1'n. .\raericanism the 

spirit of costume design, 207 
Mineral matter: How much food does it 

take to supply us with the calcium we 

need, 168 
MLxed flour, 469 
Modifying your cook book to meet the 

present conditions, 219 
Mon-dah-min and the Red Man's uses of 

Indian com, 444 
MuNROE, Mrs. Charles A. The Chicago 

food conser\'ation bureau, 518 
My friend in France tells me, 268 

N 

National Conference of Social Work,* 291 

National Education -Association,* 243 

National Society for Vocational Educa- 
tion,* 341 

Need for nurses,* 243 

New England Home Economics Associa- 
tion,* 342 

New food card, 21 

New York .Association of Dietitians,* 243 

New York community centers, 557 

News (Brief Notes): 95, 192, 244-, 342, 388, 
483. (Other news items are starred 
throughout the index.) 

News from the Food Administration, *145, 
291 

Nutrition: See Diet; Digestion; Food Values 

Nutritious vegetable soups, 80 

Nuts, Utilization of, as food, 304 

O 

Office of Home Economics and the United 
States Food .Administration, 280 



Officers, A. H. E. A.,* 194 
Ourselves or the .Allies, 260 



Paper textiles, 451 

Patriotic potato, The, 314 

Patriotism and food, 123 

Pattersox, Martha. In Memoriam, 555 

Pectin, Tests for, 520 

Perry, Lorixda. Some recent magazine 
ardcles on the standard of living, 9 

Physics, Household, and practice cottage 
work, 162 

Pinto bean, 72 

Points in selecting meals, 374 

Pop com as a money raiser,* 244 

Potato, The patriotic, 314 

Practice cottage work and household phys- 
ics, 162 

Pratt Institute of Household Science and 
Arts,* 573 

Present food situation, 513 

Preserving: See Canning 

Presenting time, 417 

Price of sugar, 517 

Prisoners of war. The food of, 510 

Problems in cake making, 542 

Professional services of Helen Kinne, 174 . 

Project in home economics teaching, 114 

Project work: See Study and Teaching 

Public health, frontispiece, October 

Publications of the United States Food 
Administration (listed) 287 



Question Box, The: Altemating sewing 
and cooking, 233 (Answer in Comment 
and Discussion, 525); Barley flours, 
232; Effect on vitaraines of boiling 
milk, 565; "Flat sour," 86; Slides for 
textiles, 232 

Quick method of calculating food values, 
212 

Quotations (not otherwise listed): 26, 29, 
72, 119, 124, 182, 230, 263, 303, 368, 
547 



582 



THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS 



[December 



R 



Ration: Changing a peace time, for war 
time, 371; International Scientific Com- 
mission, 462; Short rations in France 
and Italy, 554; Voluntary (editorial) 
85 

Red Cross and the high school sewing 
course, 414 

Red Cross Christmas, 559 

Red Cross: See American Red Cross 

Red Man's uses of Indian com, 444 

Richards: See Ellen H. Richards 

Richardson, Mabel Kingsley. Dinner 
guests, frontispiece, August 

Roberts, Lydia J. A cheap home made 
soy bean meal for diabetics, 64 

ROLFE, Amy L. What we shall wear this 
year and next, 125 

Roman menus, 343 

RONZONE, Ethel. Standardized dress, 426 

Rose, Flora. Points in selecting meals, 
374 

Rothgeb, Jessie B. How cooperation is 
being applied in a far western univer- 
sity, 460 

RouTH, Elsie M. An e.xperiment in 
teaching citizenship, 311 

Rural Work; Home economics teacher in 
the rural schools, 157; School lunch 
work in Ohio, 490 

Russell, Lillian. Help the housewife, 
129 

Ryley, Violet M. The work of the 
dietitian in the Canadian military 
hospitals, 108 



Salvaging food containers, 377 

Saving in hotels,* 387 

School : See Study and Teaching 

School of Household .\rts. University of 

Cincinnati,* 573 
School lunch work in Ohio, 490 
Ser\-ing meals without wheat, 131 
Sewing: Red Cross and the high school 

sewing course, 414. See also Clothing; 

Textiles 



Shall we buy milk or cream, 379 

Short, Jenoise. A comparison between 

canning and drying, 223 
Short rations in France and Italy, 554 
Social Work: Chicago food conservation 
bureau, 518; Experiment in teaching 
citizenship, 311; Hostess house cafe- 
teria, 463; New York community 
centers, 557; Study of cost of living in 
working class families, 147. See also 
-\merican Red Cross; Rural Work; 
Study and Teaching 

Some essentials to a safe diet, 49 

Some experiments with wheat substitutes, 
348 

Some recent magazine articles on the stand- 
ard of living, 9 

Soups, Nutritious vegetable, 80 

South Carolina federation of colored wom- 
en's clubs,* 387 

Soy beans, 64 

Sprague, Elizabeth. Nutritious vegeta- 
ble soups, 80; A study of yeast bread 
with substitute flours, 272 

Standardization: Some recent magazine ar- 
ticles on the standard of li^ang, 9; 
Standardized dress, 426 

Standardized dress, 426 

State leaders, South,* 573 

State Normal School, Harrisonburg, Va.,* 
92, 342 

Steele, B. L. Household physics and 
practice cottage work, 162 

Sterilizing glassware, 379 

Stites, Sara Henry. .\ study of the cost 
of living in working class families in 
Roxburj', Mass., 147 

Stoddard, C. F. Household thrift, 181 

Storms, Lillian B. Paper textiles, 451 

Stout Institute,* 484 

Student Contributions: 33, 321 

Study and Teaching: Comment and Dis- 
cussion, 40; Experiment in teaching 
citizenship, 311; Home economics 
teacher in the rural school, 157; Home 
economics in public schools under war 
conditions, 369; Home project work in 
vocational home economics in second- 



1918] 



INDEX TO VOLUME X 



583 



ar\- schools, 358; Patriotic potato, 314; 
Project in iiome economics teaching, 
114; Red Cross and the high school 
sewing course, 414; School lunch work 
in Ohio, 490; Teaching food values, 195, 
295, 302, 353; Teaching the budget to 
children, 495; Teaching the clothing 
budget, 437 

Stud J- of ginghams, 321 

Study of the cost of living of working class 
families in Roxbury, Mass., 147 

Study of yeast bread with substitute flours, 
272 

Substitutes: Changing a peace time ration 
for war time, 371; Friends of Captain 
Sugar, 408; Jelly making with sugar 
savers, 503; Mixed flour, 469; Serving 
meals without wheat, 131; Some ex- 
periments in wheat substitutes, 348 
Study of yeast breads with substitute 
flours, 272; Table of measures, 472 
Vegetable oils and their use in cooking 
23; WTieatless cake and short cake 
282; Wheatless loaf, 378. See also 
Conser\'ation 

Sugar: The friends of Captain, 408; How 
can I save on a two-pound ration, 428; 
The price of, 517 



Table of measures, 472 

Taylor, Alonzo E. Ourselves or the 

Allies, 260; Wheat needs of the world, 1 
Teachers of domestic science for China,* 292 
Teaching food values, 195, 295, 302, 353 
Teaching food values in the elementary 

schools, 353 
Teaching the budget to children, 495 
Teaching the clothing budget, 437 
Teaching: See Study and Teacliing 
Temperature inside the jar during home 

canning, 548 
Textiles: An analytical study of some 

varieties of white goods, ii; American 

textiles, 533; Paper textiles, 451; 

Study of ginghams, 321. See also 

Clothing 



Thrift: Economical buying, 177; House- 
hold Thrift, 181. Sec also Budget 

Time required for housework in a family 
of 5 with small children, 226 

Tin, conservation of, 466 

U 

Until the next har\-est, 185 
Utah extension field,* 92 
Utilization of some nuts as food, 304 



Vegetable oils and their use in cooking, 

23 
Vitamines: See Food Values; Question Box 
Vocational Education: See Study and 

Teaching 
Vocational home economics in secondary 

schools, 358 
Volunteer war garden army, frontispiece, 

May 

W 

War kitchen for southern agents,* 387 

War program,* 145 

Waste: See Conservation 

Weights and Measures: Comparison of 

flours, 132, 186; Comparison of sweet- 
eners, 472 
Weller, Marion. The clothing situation, 

401 
What one department did, 552 
What retail merchants are doing for food 

conservation, 264 
What temperature is reached inside the jar 

during home canning, 548 
What to teach the public regarding food 

values, 195 
What we shall wear this year and next, 125 
Wheat bread and the world's food, 515 
Wheat flour allowance, 183 
Wheat needs of the world, 1 
Wheatless cake and shortcake, 282 
Wheatless loaf, 378 
Wheeler, Lucile. Conservation and club 

work, 120 
Why eat food, 370 



584 



THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS 



[December 



Wicker, K.'\THERi>fE. Salvaging food con- 
tainers, 377 

Wilbur, Ray Lyman. Program of food 
saving, frontispiece, June 

Wild crabapple for jelly making, 471 

WiNSLow, C.-E. A. Public health, frontis- 
piece, October 

Woman's committee sur\ey of agencies for 
the sale of cooked food, 419 

Woman's obligation and the world's food 
supply, 389 



WooDBtiRY, Marion. Time required for 
housework in a family of 5 with small 
children, 226 

Work in southern colleges,* 573 

Work of the dietitian in the Canadian mili- 
tary hospitals, 108 

Work of the library in food conservation, 
266 

World's food supply and woman's obliga- 
tion, 389 



TX Journal of home economics 

1 

J7 

v.lO 

Food 

Sciences 



PLEASE DO NOT REMOVE 
CARDS OR SLIPS FROM THIS POCKET 

UNIVERSITY OF TORONTO LIBRARY 



