^35-7 



014 357 338 2 # 



HoUinger Corp. 
pH8.5 



ij TX 357 
i .U6 

1918 

Copy 1 



) STATES, FOOD ADMINISTRATION 



ECONOMY ///FOOD 



with 



and 

R e c i 

for 



tn Ti 



PLAiNNING of MEALS 




lh^o\/oy 



{ 



WASHINGTON 

GOVERNMENT PRINTING OFFICE 

JANUARY 

1918 



0. of 0. 
JAN 21 1918 



r\t 



r^-^ 

>^<^ 

\^^^ 



/ 






:5: 



CONTENTS 



The President's Tall 


Page. 




The Pledge 


(J 


The Food Conservation Campai'^n 


7 


The Present Situation 


11 


Su?2;estions for Substitutions . 


12 


Meal Planning ^ 


12 


Wheat Saving . 


15 


Bread Recipes 


ir, 


Yeast . 


17 


Quick 


20 


Meat Savino- 


22 


Extenders 


22 


Substitutes 


23 


Fat Saving 


20 


Sugar Saving 


27 


Lesson in Buying. . . 


29 


Table of Weights and Measures 


30 




3 



THE PRESIDENT'S CALL TO THE WOMEN OF THE 

NATION. 



Washington, D. C, June 12, 1917. 

My Dear Mr. Hoover: It seems to nie that the inauguration of 
that portion of the plan for Food Administration which contemplates 
a national mobilization of the great voluntary forces of the country 
which are ready to work toward saving food and eliminating waste 
admits of no further delay. 

The approaching harvesting, the innnediate necessity for wise xise 
and saving, not only in food, but in all other expenditures, the many 
undirected and overlapping efforts being made toward this end, all 
press for national direction and inspiration. 

The women of the Nation are already earnesth^ seeking to do their 
part in this our greatest struggle for the maintenance of our national 
ideals, and in no direction can they so greatl}^ assist as by enlisting in 
the service of the Food Administration and cheerfully accepting its 
direction and advice. By so doing they will increase the surplus of 
food available for our own Army and for export to the allies. To 
provide adequate supplies for the coming year is of absolutely vital 
importance to the conduct of the war, and without a very conscien- 
tious elimination of waste and very strict economy in our food con- 
sumption, we can not hope to fulfill this primary duty. 

I trust, therefore, that the women of the country will not only re- 
spond to your appeal, and accept the pledge to the Food Administra- 
tion which you are proposing, but that all men also who are engaged 
in the personal distribution of foods Avill cooperate with the same 
earnestness and in the same spirit. I give you full authority to 
undertake any steps necessary for the proper organization and stim- 
ulation of their efforts. 

Cordially and sincerely, yours, 

WooDRow Wilson. 

Mr. Herbert C. Hoover. 

5 



THE PLEDGE. 



PLEDGE CARD FOR UNITED STATES 
FOOD ADMINISTRATION. 



IF YOU HAVE ALREADY SIGNED, PASS TfflS ON TO A FRIEND. 



To the Food Administrato7\- 

I am glad to join yow in the service of food 
conservation for our Nation and I hereby accept 
membership in the United States Food xYdministra- 
tion, pledging myself to carry ont the directions and 
advice of the Food Administration in Yny home, in so 
far as my circumstances permit. 

Name 

Street 

City State 

There are no fees or dues to be paid. The Food 
Administration wishes to have as members all of those 
actually handling food in the home. 

Anyone may have the Home Card of Instruction, 
but only those signing pledges are entitled to Member- 
ship Window Card, which will be delivered upon re- 
ceipt of the signed pledge. 



6 



WAR ECONOMY IN FOOD. 



OUR PROBLEM AND ITS SOLUTION. 

Ten million American homes — and more — have taken the pledge to 
help win the war by joining in the United States Food Administra- 
tion — to send to our armies and the allies as nnich as we can of con- 
centrated nutriment, the things which, in the shortage of shipping, 
take the least vessel room. 

These things we must send — wheat, beef, pork, dairy products, 
sugar. 

As we drew near to harvest the first home card of the Food Ad- 
ministration was sent to all members, saying the men of the allied 
nations are fighting; they are not on the farms. They consume more 
than ever; they produce less than before. Cut off from their other 
markets, they depend more than ever on America. The,Y look to 
America for food as never before ; they ask for it with a right they 
never had before, for they are our companions in the great war for 
democracy and liberty. 

Wheat must be sent them, for their han'ests are short. They can 
not take corn instead, seeing they have neither mills to grind corn 
nor ovens to bake it in, while they are already adulterating their 
white flour all they can and still make it into a loaf. We must send 
them part of our wheat to mix with their heavy war bread. 

Meat must be sent them, for their herds are depleted. They have 
deliberately killed off their cattle for which they had no fodder. 

Dairy products must be sent them in three and five and ten times 
their accustomed volume. 

Sugar must be sent them, since they are cut off from all other 
sources, reduced to one-fourth of what we have been accustomed to 
use. When we have done all we are asked to do, we shall still allow 
ourselves nearly double the portion that is offered to France and 
England. 

This we were told; we were told to use freely of what America 
had in abundance that we might release the stores of the few things 
we must share with the allies. We were told to study how to set 
our tables with the Nation's needs in view. 

7 



8 WAR ECONOMY IN FOOD. 

Ten million American homes have now taken the pledge to follow 
directions as new circumstances shape them from time to time; to 
eat poultry and fish in place of meat as may be necessary; potatoes 
and corn and rye in place of wheat ; vegetable oils instead of animal 
fats, as the needs of the situation may indicate. And on definite 
days at definite meals, in accordance with the pledge to follow direc- 
tions, this substitution is made in millions of homes. 

Harvest is over now and the account of the years increase is made 
up. A second card of directions is being issued to the homes of 
America. 

THE SITUATION BEFORE US. 

The food situation in Europe is far graver than when the prelimi- 
nary survey of the food supply of the world for this year was made. 
We have an abundance for ourselves, and it is the firm policy of the 
Food Administration, by the prevention of exports, to retain for our 
people an ample supply of every essential foodstuffs. The harvests 
of Europe have proved less than Ave had contemplated, and the 
great curtailment of shipping by the submarines during the last few 
months has further prevented them from access to more remote mar- 
kets. Beyond the demands of the allies there is a call upon us by 
the friendl,y neutrals for food supplies, and if we can not at least in 
part respond to these neutral calls, starvation on an unparalleled 
scale must ensue. 

Food has now taken a dominant position in the war, and we 
must ask the American people to sacrifice far more than was at 
first thought necessary. We have exported the whole of the surplus 
of the wheat from this harvest after reserving to ourselves an amount 
sufficient for our normal consumption of seed and flour until the 
next harvest, and therefore the amount of wheat flour that the 
"United States can contribute to mix with the Avar bread of our asso- 
ciates in the war this Avinter will be simply the amount that our 
people reduce their consumption month by month. In other Avords, 
every grain of wheat or its products that the allies receive from the 
United States from noAv on Avill be exactly the amount Avhich our 
people haA^e saved each month on their behalf. 

The allies to-day ask for 25 per cent more meat and fats (pork, 
dairy products, and vegetable oils) than Ave consider our monthly 
production permits us to send them Avithout trenching on our oAvn 
supplies, or, on the other hand, unless we can consume less. Due 
to the shortage in shipping, our available sugar supplies must be less 
than normal from the present time forAvard. 

Thus every particle of diminished consumption by the American 
people is one particle more for the soldiers, men, women, and chil- 
dren of the nations fighting our Avar, and for the starving people 



WAR ECONOMY IN FOOD. 9 

in other countries. This is a personal obligation upon every one 
of us toward some individual abroad who will suffer privation to 
the extent of our own individual negligence. 

If we are to reduce the consumption of the few products wdiich 
we should export abroad, we will need to eat a larger proportion 
of many different foodstuffs which we can not export and which 
we have at home. For this reason we must not waste any food- 
stuffs. A great many individuals in our population eat far more 
food than is necessary to maintain their health and strength. In 
this emergency only the simplest of living it patriotic. We want no 
person in the United States to eat less than is required for good 
health and full strength, for in this emergency America requires 
every atom of the productive power of our people. While many can 
eat less, all of our population can substitute other foodstuffs for 
the few that are vitally needed for export. 

We must not overlook the fact that Russia collapsed not because 
of the Germans on her borders, but largely because of the failure 
to organize and feed her own citizens, and, if we are to emerge 
victorious from this war, we can not risk the collapse of another 
of our defenders from this same cause. There is no waste of food 
among any of the allies — there is the most drastic reduction in their 
consumption ; there is actual privation among their women and chil- 
dren ; there is starvation in Belgium. 

We have already issued a series of suggestions in the home card— 
a card that is now hanging in over ten millions of homes. These 
suggestions have ah-eady shoAvn important results, and to these Tve 
now add others. The problem of saving in food is a local and indi- 
.vidual one, so that more precise and definite rules just to all can not 
be fornndated. It is a matter for the conscientious consideration of 
every individual that he or she should eat only that which is neces- 
sary to maintain bodily health and strength and unselfishly to select 
those foodstuffs the use of which relieves international necessities. 

In this winter of 1918 lies the period when there will be tested in 
this great free country of ours the question as to whether or not our 
people are capable of voluntary individual self-sacrifice to save the 
world. 

FOLLOW THESE DIRECTIONS. 

The Food Administration, aside from those general directions, asks 
everyone to maintain rigidly a minimum of at least : 

One wheatless day each week and one wheatless meal each day ; the 
wheatless day to be Wednesday. By wheatless we mean to eat no 
wheat products. 

One meatless day each week, which shall be Tuesday, and one meat- 
less meal each day. By meatless we mean to eat no red meat — beef, 
31319°— 18 2 



10 WAR ECONOMY IN FOOD. 

pork, mutton, veal, lamb ; no preserved meat — beef, bacon, ham, or 
lard. 

One porkless day each week, in addition to Tuesday, which shall be 
Saturday. By porkless we mean no fresh or salted pork, bacon, lard, 
or ham. 

Sugar. — You can materially reduce sugar by reducing the use of 
candy and sweet drinks. We will make every endeavor to see that 
the country is provided with a supply of household sugar on the basis 
of 3 pounds of sugar for each person per month. Do not consume 
more. 

l/iim.an Foodstuffs Com/prise Three Principal Elements: 

Protein: Mainly present in meat, beans, fish, poultry, milk, and 

to some extent in grains. 
Fats: That is, butter, cream, lard, bacon, margarine, cooking 

fats, cottonseed oil, and other A^egetable oils. 
Carbohydrates : Grains, sugar, potatoes and other vegetables. 

As a nation we eat and waste 80 per cent more protein that we re- 
quire to maintain health. Therefore, we can reduce the amount of 
meat we eat Avithout harm. 

We eat and waste 240 per cent more fat than is necessary. 

Of the carbohydrates we can just as well consume corn, oats, and 
other cereals as wheat, and we have abundant supplies of potatoes 
and vegetables. 

Do not limit your supplies of milk and table butter or cheese, but 
consume it alL Don't waste any. 

You can reduce the consumption of fats by reducing pastry and 
fried foods. 

Eemember the gos]3el of the clean plate, the serving of small por-- 
tions, the purchase of less supplies. 

Hoarding. — Any person in the United States who buys more food- 
stuffs than he customarily keeps at home in peace times is defeating 
the Food Administration in its purpose to secure a just distribution 
of food and in its great endeavors to reduce prices. The hoarding 
of food in households is not only unnecessary, as the Government is 
protecting the food supply of our people, but it is selfish and is a 
cause of high prices. 

Such actions, multiplied by thousands, increase the demands upon 
our railways for cars and already, because of our military demands, it 
is with extreme difficulty that we can now move the vitally necessary 
food to markets. 

There is much insidious propaganda in the country against con- 
servation and increased production. All opposition to these services 
is direct assistance to the enemy. 



WAR ECONOMY IN FOOD. H 

SUGGESTIONS FOR SUBSTITUTIONS IN PLANNING MEALS. 

The question of planning meals grows daily more important, be- 
cause it is more evident that food is to win or lose the war. 

The housewife is in an especially trying position. The needs of 
her family and the requests of the Food Administration seem at first 
glance at variance. The word " save " has been over-emphasized in 
the public mind and the word " substitute " overlooked. A closer 
study reveals the fact that what the Food Administration really 
wishes and the allies really need is that we restrict ourselves in the 
use of a few staples and encourage the wise use of many. From that 
vieAvpoint the housewife has left a large and varied supply of food 
from which to select nourishment adapted to the w ishes and needs of 
her family and to the condition of her pocketbook. 

LET e'S REMEMBER. 

Let us remember that every flag that flies opposite the enemies' is 
by proxy the American flag, and that the armies fighting in our de- 
fense under these flags can not be maintained through this winter 
unless there is food enough for them and for their women and chil- 
dren at home. There can be food enough only if America provides 
it. And America can provide it only by the personal service and 
patriotic cooperation of all of us. 



The soldiers need — 
Wheat. 



Butter. 
Lard. 



SiiRar. 



Bacon. 
Beef. 
Mutton. 
Pork. 



The folks at home can use- 
Corn. 
Oats. 
Barley. 
Rye. 



Cottonseed oil. 
Peanut oil. 
Corn oil. 
Drippings. 

Molasses. 

Honey. 

Sirups. 

Chicken. 

Eggs. 

Cottage cheese. 

Fisli. 

Nuts. 

Peas. 

Beans. 



>For cookin: 



The following are offered in the hope that they may be helpful to 



those seeking aid : 



12 WAE ECONOMY IN FOOD. 

WAR-TIME ECONOMY.i 

1. Choose food wisely. 

2. Store it properly. 

3. Cook it carefully. 

4. Serve it attractively. 

Don't give the new dishes a black eye by having too many of them 
at once. Use all the ingenuity you have to make them both taste and 
look well. 

Food habits, like other habits, are not easily changed. Lead gently 
into the new realm. 

FIVE RULES FOR WISE BUYING. 

1. Don't begin to save on milk. — Children must have it; adults 
ought to. Milk builds bone, and muscle better than any other food. 

2. Spend at least as much, for milk as for meat. — Remem- 
ber that a quart of milk is equal in food value to a pound of steak. 
" A quart of milk a day for every child " is a good rule — easy to re- 
member. At least try to provide a quart of milk a day for. every 
member of the family. 

3. Spend at least as much for vegetables and fruits as for 
meat and fish. — Fresh vegetables and fruit can not well be sent 
abroad to the Army, a free use of them makes your family dietary 
better; if purchased in season and of the sorts grown in your own 
locality they need not be expensive. 

4. Use breadstuff s more or less freely, according to your 
desire for economy. — The cereals and breadstuifs are usually the 
most economical of all the foods. The Food Administration does 
not ask you to use less bread but less wheat in your bread. (See 
recipes for wheat-saving breads, pp. 16-20.) 

5. Be sparing in the use of meats. — These are usually the most 
expensive of the staple foods in proportion to their food value, and 
are not strictly necessary wlien a proper amount of milk is used. 
Meat may be decreased with less harm than anj of the other foods 
mentioned. The amount spent for meat may decrease as the amount 
for milk increases. 



MEAL PLANS. 

Study your meals. Plan them for at least three clays in advance. 
This helps you to buy to better advantage, gives variety in material 
and preparation. 

^Economy means wise expeuditure of time, moftey, ov energy. Waste is failure to use 
food materials to the best advantage. 



WAR ECONOMY IN FOOD. 



13 



Ask yourself the following questions about 3'our meal : Does this 
plan mean — 

(1) The use of home-grown products and thus allow the railroads 
to be hauling supplies for the Army instead of food for my family? 

(2) The exchange of milk, cheese, eggs, fish, game, beans, nuts, 
and peas for beef, mutton, pork? 

(3) The use of barley, buckwheat, corn, oats, potatoes, and rye 
insfead of wheat ? 

(■1) Plenty of wdiole milk for the children? 

(5) Twelve ounces of fat per adult per week and six ounces per 
child per week? The substitution of the vegetable fats wherever 
possible ? 

(6) The substitution of honey, molasses, corn sirup or other 
sirup for sugar, so as to reduce the amount of sugar used to three 
pounds or less per person per month ? 

(7) Meals adapted to the season and pockctbook? Rave they 
character, color, flavor? 

(8) Meals which include at least one fo'od from each of the follow- 
ing classes, except III? 

FOOD CLASSES. 

Group I. Protein. — Dried beans, eggs, meat, milk, pens, bread. 
II. Starch.^ — Cereals, potatoes, tapioca. 
III. Sugar. — Desserts, honey, jellies, dried fruits. 

IV. Fats. — Butter, cream, corn oil, peanut oil, and cottonseed oil, oleo- 
margarine. 
V. Regulators, mineral salts, and acids. — Fruits, vegetables, milk. 

HELP IN PLANNING MEALS. 



CHOOSE WISELY COOK CAREFULLY SERVE NICELY 

Following are sample menus illustrating the proper selection of food f?om the five 
principal classes: 



Protein 


Starches 


Sugars 1 
BREAKFAST. 


Fats 


Minerals and 
Cellulose 


Whole milk. 


Oatmeal with 

dates. 
Rye toast. 


DINNER. 


Butter or 
Oleomargarine. 


Stewed prunes. 


Bean and nut loaf. 


Hot corn bread. 
Brown potatoes. 


Sirup. 

SUPPER. 


Butter or 
Oleomargarine. 


Stewed tomatoei. 


Cream of pea soup. 


Baked potatoes. 
Rye bread. 


Oatmeal cookies. 

BREAKFAST. 


Butter or 
Oleomargarine. 


Celery. 
Baked apples. 


Whole milk. 


Hominy grits. 
Oatmeal muffins. 


Sirup. 


Butter or 
Nut butterlne. 


Orange. 



» The needs for this class can be met largely by substitutes. 



14 



WAR ECONOMY IN FOOD. 



Protein 



Starches 



Sugars 

DINNER. 



Rice and tomato Stuffed potatoes. Gingerbread (corn Butter or 



with a little Ham- 
burg steak. 



Cottage cheese Scalloped corn. 



salad. 



Whole milk. 



Rye bread. 
Corn-meal wafers. 



meal). 

SUPPER. 



BREAKFAST. 



Buckwheat cakes. Sirup. 
Barley bread. 



Nut butterine. 



Butter or 
Nut butterine. 



Butter or 

Substitute. 



Minerals and 
CeHuIose 



Cold slaw. 



Oatmeal brown 
bettv. 



Stewed apricots. 



Fish chowder. 



Corn-meal batter 
bread. 



Butter or 

Substitute. 



Beets, boiled. 

Fruit salad. 



Baked hominy and Oatmeal yeast War cake, 
cheese. bread. 



Butter or 
Substitute. 



Boiled onions. 



SUGGESTIONS FOR CONSERVATION IN COURSE DINNERS AND 

LUNCHEONS. 



Oyster. 
Lobstei'. 



Cream ' (tf vegetable. 
Clam. 



Omelets. 

Any fish — with lemon or tomato 
sauce. 



Shellfi.sh. 
i\[ushr(^om^ 



Chicken. 

Fish. 

Duck. 



Goose. 

Pheasant. 

Rabbit. 



Squab. 

Turkey. 

Venison. 



Cottage cheese. 
Fi.sh. 



Fruits and cheese. 
Vegetables. 



Nuts. 



Gelatin jellies with fruits and nuts. 
Cereals molded with dates and 

raisins. 
Fresh or stewed dried fruits. 
Blancmanges. 

Tapioca creams with fruits. 
Ices sweetened with maple sirup or 

honey. 



Date and fig puddings, using oatmeal 

or barley flour. 
Buckwheat shortcake with friut. 
War cake (boiled raisin cake). 
Spiced oatmeal cakes. 
Corn meal cookies. 

Tarts — crust of corn meal or oatmeal. 
Oatmeal macaroons. 



1 Use skim milk and vegetable fat and cornstarch. 

2 Served with boiled dressing or vegetable oil or fruit juice and honey. 



WAE ECONOMY IN FOOD. 15 



PIES, 

Mock mince — green tomatoes. Custard. 

Pumpkin or cream with corn meal Raisin, 
crust 

At formal dinners no white bread is served. 

No butter is served at social luncheons and dinners. 

Use no toast as garnish. 

Use no croutons. 

Use no bacon for trimming. 

Use left-over meats, minced or in stews. 

Use vegetables in omelets. 

Use potatoes in many forms — stuffed, puffed, scalloped with cheese. 

LUNCHEON. 

Any of the foods suggested above, using as the main dish such meat- 
saving dishes as the following: 

Bean loaf. 

Nut loaf. 

Nut and cottage-cheese loaf. 

Baked hominy and cheese. 

Baked rice and cheese (adding tomato, pimento, or any vegetal)Ie desired 

for flavor). 
Eggs with mushrooms. 
Eggs scrambled witla vegetables. 
Fisli cliowder. 

Wheat-saving breads as — 

Quick breads, muffins, etc., using cornmeal, buckwheat, rye. oatmeal, and 

dried fruits if desired. 
Yeast bread, using any of the cereals mentioned above and no fat. 



WHEAT SAVING. 

We must cut down our own use of wheat one-fourth if we are to 
have enough to send the allies. Therefore study these suggestions : 

Substitute flour or meal made from any other grain for at least one- 
fourth of the wheat you would ordinarily use. 

Use white potatoes, sweet potatoes, rice, squash, and pumpkin as 
substitutes for the wheat flour. 

Use what is available in your community. 

Those who can save more than the one-fourth will help make up 
for those who can not or are not willing to do their share. 

The quick breads can be made so as to save from half to all the 
wheat. 

The use of whole wheat and graham flours is not regarded as sav- 
ins: wheat. 



16 



WAR ECONOMY IN FOOD. 
SAVE BREAD. 



Cut it on the table, so that none is left to dry. 

Do not have stale bread. 

Do not use toast as a garnish or serve food on toast. 

If there are bits of bread left, dry and grind or pound, using the 
crumbs in place of flour. 

Do not use crackers made from wheat (or graham) flour, or serve 
croutons with soup. 

Do not use breakfast cereals made from wheat. 

If you use macaroni, spaghetti, any Italian paste or noodles, re- 
member that it is made of wheat and do not serve bread at the same 
meal. 

Use cornstarch or rice flour for thickening sauces and gravies and 
in puddings. (Use half as much as you would of flour.) 

Kemember bread made of mixed flours is better body-building ma- 
terial than that made from one grain alone. 

MODIFY YOUR OWN RECIPES. 

If you have good recipes for bread of any kind, make them con- 
form to food conservation by omitting sugar and fat and by using 
at least one-fourth wheat substitute. The recipes below tell how to 
use or add the substitutes. Try for yourself with j^our own recipe. 
Many people think milk is necessary for good bread, but it is not, 
although it of course adds to the food value, and is therefore advis- 
able when it can be afforded. Water, milk and water, whey, potato 
water, or rice water may be used for the liquid. 

In using part other grains than wheat the loaf will be as nourish- 
ing, but usually not so large or light. 

All measures in these recipes are level. The flour is measured after 
sifting. 

YEAST. 

Because of the high price of yeast it may be economical wdien 
bread is made frequently or in large quantities to prepare liquid 
yeast. In making the bread the amount of yeast used, of whatever 
kind, will depend upon the time in which the process is to be carried 
through. 

LIQUID YEAST. 



■1 inedium-sized potatoes. 
1 quart hot water. 
Vi cup sugar. 
1 teaspoon salt. 



1 cake dry yeast, softened in 14 cup 

of warm water, or 
1 cake of compressed yeast. 



Wash, pare, and cook the potatoes in the water. Drain, mash, and 
return to the water. Make up to 1 quart. Add the sugar, and 



WAR ECONOMY IN FOOD. 17 

salt and allow the mixture to cool. When lukewarm add the yeast. 
Keep at room temperature (65° to 70° F.) for 24 hours before using. 
If kept for a longer time it should be poured into a sterilized jar and 
put in a dark, cool place. 

Each of these recipes makes one loaf. The weight of the different 
breads will vary from 18 ounces to 23 ounces. 

CORN MEAL YEAST BREAD. 



21/^ cups flouiO 

% cup corn meal, white oi" yellow. 



1% cups liquid. 

Ys to 1/4 yeast cake. 

iy2 teaspoons salt. 

Note. — One-fourth cup of liquid yeast may be used in place of 
the 14 yeast cake, and i^ cup of liquid when making bread by the 
short process. If dry yeast is used the long process must be followed 
or a liquid yeast prepared. For the long process sponge method, % 
cake of compressed yeast or 2 tablespoons of liquid yeast is sufficient. 
For the short process use more yeast. 

LONG PROCESS. 

1. Soften the yeast in ^ cup of lukewarm water. Add f cup of 
white flour. Beat thoroughly, cover, and if the sponge is to stand 
over night, let rise at room temperature (about 65° to 70"^ F.) and 
at 80° to 85° F. if the time is to be shortened. When this sponge is 
so light that the slightest touch causes it to fall it is ready for the 
addition of the other ingredients. 

2. Stir the corn meal into the remaining cup of salted water and 
heat to the boiling point over the direct flame. Cook 20 minutes in 
a double boiler or over hot water. Cool until it feels warm to the 
hand (about 90° to 95° F.). 

3. Beat the cooked corn meal into the light sponge prepared as di- 
rected above. Add gradually sufficient flour to make a dough some- 
what stiffer than for ordinary bread.^ It is impossible to give the 
quantity of flour exactly, because different samples of flour ma}^ not 
absorb the same amounts of liquid. Knead a fcAV minutes until the 
dough is smooth and elastic, cover and let rise at a temperature of 
about 80° F., until double in bulk. Then shape into a loaf, cover and 
let rise in the pan until double in bulk. Bake 50 to 60 minutes, 
starting in a hot oven (450° F.) and lowering the temperature 
gradually at the end of 10 minutes. A pan of water set in the oven 
will keep the air moist and give a soft brown crust. If the pan 
of water is not used the temperature should be lower (425° F.). 

1 More if needed. 

* The long process usually produces better results in this bread. 



18 WAK ECONOMY IN FOOD. 

SHORT TROCESS. 

Cook the corn moal in I14 C'^ps of liquid, cool to about 90° F., add 
the yeast softened in the remaining i/4 cup of liquid (or the liquid 
3^east) and flour to make a stitf dough. Proceed from this point as 
directed above. 

BREAD MIXER. 

In following either of these methods any of the commercial bread 
mixers may be used. 

OATMEAL BREAD. 

1 cup liquid. 

1% teaspoons salt. 

1 cup I'olled oats. 

% to 1/4 yeast cake, softened in % cup lukewarm water. 

2% cups flour. 

LONG PROCESS. 

Scald the liquid, add salt and pour it over the rolled oats in a bread 
mixer or mixing bowl. Cool slowly. Add the yeast and 1 cup of 
flour. Cover and allow the sponge to rise as directed in the recipe 
for corn-meal bread. When light, add the remainder of the flour, 
knead, cover and let rise until double in bulk. Shape into a loaf, 
cover, let rise again until it doubles in bulk and bake. 

SHORT PROCESS. 

Follow the directions as given above, but add all the flour at one 
time, after the oatmeal has soaked y2 hour. 

POTATO BREAD. 



1% cups mashed potato (packed 

solid). 
1% teaspoonfuls salt. 



Vs to 1/4 yeast cake softened in 2 
tablespoonfuls lukewarm water. 

21/4 cupfuls flour — more or less flour 
may be needed. 

Note. — Mashed sweet potato or cooked cereal or squash may be 
used in the same way as the Irish potato. In using any substitute 
which has a marked flavor it is better to try the bread first with 
less than 1^ cups and add more liquid. Squash rolls are very good. 

LONG PROCESS. 

Cool the mashed potatoes to lukewarm, add the salt and yeast 
softened in the warm water and about i/4 cup of flour. Mix well, 
cover and let rise until very light. 

To the Av ell-risen sponge, add the remaining flour, kneading thor- 
oughly. The dough should be very stiff, as it softens considerably in 
rising. CoAer and let rise until double in bulk. Shape into a loaf, 
cover, let rise again until it has increased 2i/^ times in bulk, and 
bake. 



WAR ECONOMY IN FOOD. 19 



SHORT PROCESS. 



Follow tlie directions as given above, but add all the flour at once. 
The dough in this case is so stiff that it is difficult to work in all the 
flour. 

RYE BREAD. 



21/4 cups white flour. 
21/4 cups rye flour. 



1 cup liquid. 
1 teaspoouful salt. 

1^ to 14 cake yeast, softened in i/4 
cup lukewarm water. 

Note. — The proportion of rye flour used may be increased to 3 
cups of rye flour and 34 <^"P of white if desired. This dough is soft 
and can be made into the old-fashioned flat loaf. 

LONG PROCESS. 

Scald the liquid, cool to lukeAvarm, add the salt, yeast, and half 
the flour. Beat thoroughly, cover and let rise until very light. Then 
add the remainder of the flour, Imead, cover and let rise until double 
in buik. Shape into a loaf, cover and let rise again until double in 
bulk and bake. 

SHORT PROCESS. 

Follow the directions as given above, but add all the flour at once. 

This same method may be used for bread in which buckwheat flour 
is used. It may be substituted for I/2 to % of the wheat flour. The 
buckwheat bread is dark and has a characteristic flavor. 



BARLEY BREAD. 



1 cup liquid. 
1 teaspoon salt. 

% to 14 cake yeast softeued in 
cup lukewarm water. 



2i/{ cups white flour. 
IVg cups barley flour. 



LONG PROCESS. 

Scald the liquid, cool to lukewarm, add the salt, the softened yeast 
and half the flour. Beat thoroughly, cover and let rise until very 
light. Then add the remainder of the floiu-. Knead, cover, and let 
rise until double in bulk. Shape into a loaf, cover, and let rise again 
until double in bulk. Bake. 

SHORT PROCESS. 

Follow the directions as given above, but add all the flour at once. 

PEANUT BREAD. 



1 cup liquid. 

1 teaspoon salt. 

3 cups flour (more if desired). 



Ys to i/i cake yeast softened in 14 

cup lukewarm water. 
1 or 2 tablespoons sirup. 
1 cup peanut meal, or flour. 



' Peanut meal may be prepared by shelUng roasted peanuts, removing red skin, and 
crushing the nuts with a rolling pin. 



20 WAR ECONOMY IN FOOD. 

LONG PROCESS. 

Follow the directions given for the long process under corn-meal 
bread, making the sponge with part of the liquid and flour, salt and 
yeast. When light add the rest of the liquid, the sirup, the peanut 
meal and the remainder of the flour. Knead until smooth and elastic, 
adding more flour if necessary to secure the proper consistency. 
Cover and let rise until double in bulk. Shape into a loaf, cover and 
lefc rise until 'lyo times the original bulk. Bake 50 to 60 minutes in 
a moderately hot oven (400° F.). 

SHORT PROCESS. 

Dissolve the salt and sirup in the cup of lukeAvarm liquid. Add to 
it the softened yeast and add all to the mixture of flour and ]xninut 
meal. Knead until smooth and elastic. From this point follow the 
directions as given for long process. 

QUICK BREADS. 

OATMEAL MUFFINS. (10-12 muffins.) 



1% cups milk. 
2 cups rolled oats. 

1 egg. 

2 tablespoons molasses. 



1 tablespoon melted fat. 
1 cup floui". 

4 teaspoons baking powder. 
% teaspoon salt. 



Pour hot milk over the oats and let soak about one-half hour. Add 
the beaten egg, molasses, and melted fat. Finally add dry ingre- 
dients, which have been sifted together. Bake in greased muffin tins 
one-half hour in a moderately hot oven. 

COOKED CEREAL MUFFINS. (10-12 Muffins.) 



1% cups flour. 

4 teaspoons baking powder. 

% teaspoon salt. 

1 cup cooked rice. 



V2 Clip milk. 

Ipcro* 

1 tablespoon melted fat. 



Sift together the dry ingredients. Add the milk, beaten egg, and 
melted fat to the looked rice. Beat thoroughly. Finally add the 
sifted dry ingredients. Mix well. Bake in greased muffin tins about 
one-half hour in a moderately hot oven. 

Other cooked cereals or mashed potatoes may be used in this 
recipe. If the dough is too soft, add a little more flour ; if too thick, 
a little more liquid. 

BUCKWHEAT MUFFINS. (10-12 Muffins.) 
iy2 cups milk. 



1 cup buckwheat. 

1 cup wlieat flour. 

4 teaspoons baking powder 

% teaspoon salt. 



1 egg. 

1 tablespoon melted fat. 

2 tablespoons molasses. 



WAE ECONOMY IN FOOD. 



21 



Sift together the dry ingredients. Combine the milk, beaten egg, 
melted fat, and molasses. Add the liquid to the dry ingredients. 
Mix well and bake one-half hour in a moderately hot oven. 

Rye flour or 1 cup of barley meal and 1 cup of wheat flour m'ay 
be used in this recipe if the liquid is reduced to 1 or I14 cups. The 
buckwiieat flour absorbs more liquid than other flours. 

If you can get corn flour, barley flour, rye meal, peanut flour, soy- 
bean meal, a great variety of muffins can be made. Combinations of 
% barley flour, % corn flour, and Vs wheat flour, or 14 rye meal, l^ 
ct)rn meal, and 14 wheat flour have been found satisfactory. 



2 cups corn meal. 
1 teaspoon salt. 



CORN DODGERS. (Makes 14 biscuits.) 

I 2 teaspoons fat. 

I 1% cups boiling water. 



Pour the boiling water over the other materials. Beat well. When 
cool, form into thin calves and bake one-half hour in a hot oven. 
These crisp biscuits are good served hot with butter or gravy. 



CORN-MEAL BREAD. 



1% cups coi'n meal. 

4 teaspoons baking powder. 

1 teaspoon salt. 

1 tablespoon flour. 



2 cups milk. 

1 tablespoon melted fat. 



Mix and sift the dry ingredients. Combine the milk, beaten egg, 
and melted fat, and add to the dry ingredients. Mix well, pour into 
greased muffin tins or shallow pans, and bake in a hot oven about 20 
minutes. This bread should be served hot. 

If a softer bread is desired, the corn meal, salt, and milk may bo 
brought to a boil and cooked for 10 minutes in a double boiler or over 
hot water. Cool, add the beaten egg, melted fat, and baking powder. 
The flour is not necessary. Beat well and bake in a hot oven. This 
same mixture may be baked as griddle cakes. 



GRIDDLE CAKES. 



1 cup milk. 

1 egg. 

1 tablespoon melted fat. 

1% cups cooked oatmeal. 



% cup flour. 

% teaspoon salt. 

4 teaspoons baking powder, 



Combine the milk, beaten egg, and melted fat. Beat this into the 
cooked oatmeal. Add the flour, salt, and baking powder, which have 
been sifted together. Bake on a hot, greased griddle. 

0<her cooked cereuls, n shed Irish potatoes, sweet potatoes, etc., 
may be used in place of the oatmeal. When rice is used, I/4 cup 
more flour is necessary. 



1 Omitted if desired. 



22 WAR ECONOMY IN POOD. 

Griddle cakes may also be made using i/^ or more of corn meal or 
buclnvheat flour. 

If desired, sour milk may be substituted in these recipes for the 
swfeet. In doinff this the quantity must usually be increased a little. 
Use 1/^ teaspoon of soda for each cup of sour milk. For each % 
teaspoon of soda the quantity of baking powder can be reduced by 2 
teaspoons. 

CORN MEAL CRISPS. (Salad wafers.) 



^2 cup corn meal. 
V2 cup wheat flour. 
% teaspoon salt. 



1 tablespoon fat. 

3 tablespoons milk (about). 



Sift together the dry ingredients. Cut the fat into the flour and 
add sufficient liquid to make a dough that can be rolled thin. Cut 
into diamonds or other shapes. Bake in a quick oven until golden 
brown. This makes 60 to 65 wafers 2 by 2 inches. 

If desired, after rolling out the dough, sprinkle with grated cheese 
and paprika. Make into cheese straws. 



MEAT SAVING. 

Meat saving is to be accomplished in various ways: 

1. By doing without pork, beef, mutton, veal, and lamb. 

2. By using meat less frequently. 
In " meatless days." 

3. By serving smaller portions. 

4. By using meat extenders, such as a dish of rice, tomatoes, and 
a little meat. 

5. By using substitutes such as cheese, eggs, fish, game, poultry, 
dried beans, and peas. 

MEAT EXTENDERS. 



2 cups corn meal. 
2^/2 teaspoons salt. 
G cups boiling water, 
1 onion. 
1 tablespoon fat. 



TAMALE PIE. (Serves six.) 

1 pouml Hamburger steak. 

2 cups tomatoes. 
M; teaspoon cayenne pepper, or 
1 small chopped sweet pepper. 



Make a mush by stirring the corn meal and ly^ teaspoons salt into 
boiling water. Cook in a double boiler or over water for 45 minutes 
Brown the onion in the fat, add the hamburger steak and stir until 
the red color disappears. Add the tomato, pepper, and remaining 
salt. Grease a baking dish, put in a layer of corn meal mush, add 
the seasoned meat, and cover with mush. Bake 30 minutes. 



WAE ECOISrOMY IN FOOD. 



23 



BEEF STEW. 



1 pound beef. 

4 potatoes cut in quarters. 

% peck green peas or 1 can. 



1 cup carrots cut up small. 
1 teaspoon salt. 



Cut meat in small pieces and brown in the fat from the meat. 
Simmer in 2 quarts of water for 1 hour. Add the peas and carrots 
and cook for one-half hour, then add the potatoes. If canned peas 
are used, add them 10 minutes before serving. Serve when potatoes 
are done. 

VARIATIONS. 

1. The meat. — This may be any kind and more or less than a 
pound may be used. Use the cheap cuts, the flank, rump, neck, or 
brisket. The long, slow cooking makes them tender. Game and 
poultry are good. 

2. Potatoes and barley may be used or barley alone, or rice, hom- 
iny, or macaroni. 

3. Vegetahles. — Carrots, turnips, onions, peas, beans, cabbage, to- 
matoes are good, canned or fresh. Use one or more of these, as you 
wish. 

4. Parsley, celery tops, onion tops, seasoning herbs, or chopped 
sweet peppers add to the flavor. 

5. Many left-overs may be used — not only meat and vegetables but 
rice or hominy. 

SUBSTITUTES. 



FISH CHOWDER. 



A 3-pouud fish. 

4 tablespoons dripping.^. 

1 medium onion, chopped fiiuv 



1 quart sliced potatoes. 
3 cups hot milk. 



Skin and bone the fish, and cut into inch cubes. Cover the bone 
and trimmings with cold water and let simmer for one-half hour. 
Cook the onion in the fat for 5 minutes, then pour into a stew pan. 

Parboil the sliced potatoes for 5 minutes, then drain and add layers 
of fish and potatoes to the fat and onion in the stew pan. Season each 
layer with salt and pepper. 

Strain the liquor in which the fish bones have been cooking over 
all, and cook about 20 minutes until fish and potatoes are tender. 
Then add the scalded milk. If desired thicker, sprinkle a little corn 
meal between each la^^er of fish and potatoes. 



BAKED SALT FISH. 



2 cups salt fish (flaked). 
2 cups cold mashed potatoes. 
1 pint milk. 



2 eggs. 
2 to 3 tablespoons of drippings. 



24 



WAR ECONOMY IN FOOD. 



Soak the flaked fish in cold water OA'er niglit or freslien the fish by 
boiling up several times in fresli water (usually three times is suffi- 
cient). Tlien simmer until tender. Drain off the water. Mix the 
potatoes with the milk, eggs, fat, and seasoning. Add the fish, turn 
into a greased baking dish, and bake one-half hour. 

BROILED SALT MACKEREL. 

Freshen the fish by soaking 10 to 12 hours with the skin side up. 
Change the wafer several times. Simmer until tender (15 to 20 
minutes) in water to which 1 teaspoon of vinegar, a bay leaf, one 
slice of onion, and a sprig of parsley have been added. Drain, rub 
the fish with a little salt and margarine or other fat. Grease the hot 
broiler and lay the fisli en it. Brown on both sides quickly. Garnish 
vvith slices of lemon and parsley. 

JELLIED FISH. 



IV2 cups cold flaked fish. 

2 tablespoons chopped capers. 

1 tablei^poon granulated gelatin. 

2 tablespoons cold water. 



1 cup boiling water. 

2 tablespoons lemon juice. 
% teaspoon salt. 



Mix the fish and capers. Arrange in a mold. Soak the gelatin 
in two tablespoons of cold water. Add the boiling water and stir 
until the gelatin dissolves, then add the lemon juice and salt. Pour 
this jelly ciirefully over the fish and set in a cool place to harden. 
Cut into portions and serve on lettuce with salad dressing. If de- 
sired celery or hard-boiled eggs cut in slices may be added to the 
fish. 

RABBIT IN CASSEROLE. 



1 rabbit. 

Yi cup drippings or other fat. 

1 cuji hot water. 



2 cups meat stock or thickened gravy. 
1 tablespoon lemon juice. 
Bit of bay leaf. 



Dress the rabbit and separate into pieces at the joints. Season with 
paprika and salt. Cook in the fat until a golden brown. Transfer 
the meat to a casserole with 1 cup of hot water and cover. Bake in 
a moderate oven about i/o hour, then add the stock or gravy, lemon 
juice, and bay leaf. Continue cooking in the oven about 3 hours. 

BAKED HOMINY AND CHEESE. 



1 tablespoon of butter substitute or 
drippings. 

1 tablespoon cornstarch or 2 table- 
spoons flour. 

1 cup milk. 



% teaspoon paprika. 

% to 1 cup cheese, grated or cut fine. 

2 cups cooked hominy. 

1/4 cup bread crumbs, 

1 teaspoon salt. 



WAR ECONOMY IN FOOD. 25 

Make a sauce of the fat, cornstarch, salt, and milk. Add the cheese 
and paprika to the sauce, arrange the hominy in baking dish, and 
pour the sauce over it. Cover with crumbs and bake 20 minutes in a 
moderate oven. 

The hominy and cheese may be arranged in layers and the white 
sauce poured over it if preferred. 

COTTAGE CHEESE AND NUT LOAF. 

1 cup cottage cheese. | 1 teaspoon salt. 

14 teaspoon pepper. 
2 tablespoons chopped onion. 
1 tablespoon butter substitute, meat 
clripping,s or vegetable oils. 



1 cup nut meats (use those locally. 

grown). 
1 cup stale bread crumbs. 
.Juice of K> lemon. 



Mix the cheese, ground nuts, crumbs, lemon juice, salt, and pepper. 
Cook the onion in the fat and a little water until tender. Add to the 
lirst mixture the onion and sufficient water or moat stock to moisten. 
Mix well, pour into a baking dish and brown in the oven. 

VARIATIONS. 

Two cups of cooked oatmeal may be substituted for the cheese and 
the bread crumbs. 

One pound of beans, cooked and put through a sieve may be sub- 
stituted for the nuts. 

American cheese, grated or cut fine, may be used in place of cot- 
tage cheese. 

The amount of liquid added will vary in each case. The seasoning 
may be varied to suit the case. 

SAUCES. 

Especial attention must be given to seasoning of dishes Avliich have 
as their foundation beans, rice, or other foods having little flavor of 
their own. 

Use peppers, onions, garlic, leek, celery, catsup, Worcestershire 
sauce, etc., for increasing flavor. Bean and nut loaves should be 
served with highly seasoned sauces. 

ITALIAN TOMATO SAUCE. 



2 cups cooked tomatoes. 
2 teaspoons salt. 
2 tablespoons flour. 



% cup finely cut onion. 
^2 cup grated or cut turnip. 
1/^ cup grated or cut carrot. 
% cup cut green peppers. 
4 tablespoons butter substitute or vei 
etable fat or '^i-ippings. 

Cook vegetables (except tomato) in the fat until tender. Add 
tomato and salt, cook 5 minutes. Put through strainer, return to 
fire, add flour mixed with 2 tablespoons cold Avater, boil 5 minutes. 



26 WAK ECONOMY IN FOOD. 

PIMENTO SAUCE. 

Force canned pimento through a strainer. Add i/o cup of this 
puree to 1 cup of white sauce. 

BROWN NUT SAUCE. 



2 tablespoons di'ippings or vegetable 

oil. 
2 tablespoons peanut butter. 
3 Mi tablespoons flour. 



1% cups meat or vegetable stock or 

milk. 
^2 teaspoon salt. 
Few grains pepper. 



Brown the fat, add peanut butter and when well mixed add flour 
and continue browning. Pour in the stock gradually, stirring con- 
stantly. Bring to the boiling point and add salt and pepper. 



FAT SAVING. 

We use twice as much fat as some of the allies. The amount used 
here should be not more than % pound i^er j^erson per week and G 
ounces for children under 10. 

Use butter as sparingly as possible on tbe table, except for cbildreu. 

Do not use it in cooking. 

Peanut butter, jellies, or a nut and fig paste are excellent substitutes. 

Use little pastry. 
'Wben you do make pies, use one crust instead of two. 

Try tbe New England deep apple pie, with only a top crust. 

Use tbe vegetable fats instead of animal fats in making tbe pastry. 

If tbe vegetable oils are used, the quantity of fat may be reduced by one- 
third; that is, 2% tablespoons of oil to 1 cup of flour is suflicient. 
The oil itself helps to moisten the flour so that very little water is 
necessary. The dough should be made as dry as possible to make a 
tender pastry. 

Do not fry in deep fat. 

Bake croquettes in the oven. 

Make meat lonf instead of meat croquettes. 

Either do not use recipes calling for a large quantity of fat or try reduc- 
ing the amount. 

RECIPES FOR CONSERVATION PIE CRUSTS. 

CORN MEAL CRUST. 

Grease a pie plate well. Cover with raw corn meal, giving the plate 
a rotating motion so that an even layer of the meal will stick to the 
plate about iV of an inch in thickness. Fill the plate with pumpkin 
pie mixture. Bake in a hot 'oven. 

INDIVIDUAL PIES— OATMEAL CRUST. 

2 cups finely ground oatmeal. 
1 cup boiling water. 
1 teaspoon fat. 



WAE ECONOMY IN FOOD. 27 

Scald the oatmeal with the water. Add fat and mix thoroughly. 
Roll very thin and line small pie or tart tins with the mixture. Bake 
in a hot oven. Fill Avith apricot marmalade or other thick mixture. 
If desired, spread a meringue on top and brown in the oven. 



SUGAR SAVING. 

Because of the present shortage of sugar it is necessar}' for each 
person to reduce his consumption of sugar to % pound per week. 
There are so many sweet foods that may be used in place of sugar 
that this should be no hardship. 

Cut out candy. 

Use less sugar in tea and coffee and substitute otlier sweetening wlierever 

possible. 
Try cooking breakfast cereals with chopped figs, dates, or raisins. You 

will not need to add any sugar at the table. 
Use molasses, honey, corn, or other sirups for sweetening. 
Apple sirup and concentrated cider. 
Get Government pamphlet^ giving directions for making sirup from 

apples and other fruits. Try some of these. 
Use fresh fruits for desserts in place of rich pastries and sweet puddings. 
Bake apples or pears with a little water for several hours until a rich 

sirup forms. If more sweetening is desired add a little honey or 

molasses. 
Stew dried prunes in the water in which they were soaked until the 

liquid is almost all boiled away. If more juice is wanted add water 

to the sirup. The long, slow cooking is necessary to develop a rich 

flavor. 
Cut down the use of cake. 
Do not use frosting unless you can make it without sugar. Either honey 

or maple sirup can be substituted for sugar in a boiled frosting. 
When cake is made it should be not only wheat-saving, but sugar-saving 

and fat-saving. Try making cakes in which corn meal, corn flour, rye 

flour, potato flour, rice flour, or cornstarch is substituted for part of 

the wheat flour. 
Use corn sirup, molasses, honey, and other sirups for part or all of the 

sugar. 
A good working rule in making such substitution is to use 1 cup of sirup 

as equivalent to 1 cup of sugar and i cup of li(iuid. Corn sirup does 

not sweeten as much as molasses or honey. 

RECIPES FOR CONSERVATION SWEETS. 

WAR CAKE. 



1 cup molasses. 
1 cup corn sirup. 
1^2 cups water. 

1 package raisins. 

2 tablespoons fat 
1 teaspoon salt. 



1 teaspoon cinnamon. 
y^ teaspoon cloves. 
^ teaspoon nutmeg. 
3 cups flour. 

i teaspoon soda. 

2 teaspoons baking powder, 



1 Department of Agriculture Yearbook, Separate 639. 



28 



WAR ECONOMY IN FOOD. 



Boil together for 5 minutes the first nine ingredients. Cool, add 
the sifted dry ingredients and bake in two loaves for 45 minutes in a 
moderate oven. 

This cake should ))e kept several days before using. It makes 
about 20 to 25 servings. 

If desired 1 cup of oatmeal may be used in place of % cup of flour. 



CORN MEAL COOKIES. 



% cup melted fat. 
V2 Clip molasses. 
i Clip com sii'up. 
1 ess. 



G tablespoons soiu' milk. 
I2 teaspoon soda. 
2 cups corn meal. 
1 CUD wheat flour. 



Combine the melted fat, molasses, sirup, beaten egg and milk. 
Sift the dry ingredients and combine with the liquid. Drop from a 
teaspoon onto a greased pan and bake in a moderate oven for 15 
minutes. This makes 55 to 60 cookies about 2 inches in diameter. 



OATMEAL MACAROONS. 



1 tablespoon fat. 
f cup corn sirup. 

2 tablespoons sugar. 
1 egg. 

1% cups oatmeal. 



1/4 teaspoon salt. 
^4 teaspoon baking powder. 
li;4 tablespoons flour. 
2 teaspoons almond extract if de- 
sired. 



Combine the melted fat and the sugar and sirup, add the beaten 
egg and stir in the other ingredients. Drop from a teaspoon on 
greased baking sheets or pans and bake in a moderate oven about 
15 minutes. 

This makes 25 to 28 cookies about 2 inches in diameter. 



CORN-MEAL GINGERBREAD. 



1 cup corn meal. 
1 cup wheat floiu*. 

1 teaspoon soda. 
% teaspoon salt. 

2 teaspoons ginger. 

1 teaspoon cinnamon. 



^2 teaspoon cloves. 
1 cup sour milk. 

1 cup molasses. 

2 tablespoons shortening. 
1 eo«-^ 



Sift together the dry ingredients. Combine the milk, molasses, 
melted shortening, and beaten egg. Add the liquid ingredients to 
the dry. Stir well. Bake in moderate oven. 

Two cups of buckwheat flour may be substituted for the corn meal 
and flour in the above recipe. This w^ill have the characteristic 
flavor of buckwheat. If it is too strong use only 1 cup of buckwheat 
and 1^ cups of white flour. Two and a half cups of rye flour may 



1 Omitted if desired. 



WAR ECONOMY IN FOOD. 29 

also be substituted. In using rye or white flour a larger quantity 

is necessary because these flours absorb less liquid than do the corn 
meal and buckwheat. 



A LESSON IN BUYING. 

Yet another method of studjdng food values is to be found in a 
consideration of Aveight, cost, and measure. This has been used by 
wise housekeepers for some time, but some women have been so im- 
pressed with the importance of buying by weight that they have 
almost lost sight of the expression of this weight in terms of meas- 
ure. Yery few women would think of bujdng bananas except by the 
pound, but not many realize that they will get only three medium 
bananas in a pound. Such a common commodity as potatoes of 
course are always purchased b}^ weight, but it is very important to 
realize that there are 15 pounds of potatoes in a peck and that this 
same 15 pounds also represents about 50 medium-sized potatoes. In 
other words, if a housekeeper buys a pound of potatoes, she will get 
three medium-sized potatoes and a little one thrown in for full 
weight. A pound of prunes n^aj be ordered without anj^ special in- 
terest by the woman buyer, and she may get either large or small 
prunes depending upon the grocer's wishes, while a wise buyer would 
stipulate the size v/anted because she Avould know that in a pound of 
small prunes she would get about 40 prunes, while if they were large 
there would be about 28. 

The following table shows the relation of vreight and measure and 
also brings about the dilference in the weight of contents of the cans 
of different sizes. In the case of canned pork and beans, the No. 1 
can, cost 15 cents, weighs 11 ounces, while the No. 2 can, cost 20 
cents, weighs 21 ounces. In the latter can, the cost of the additional 
10 ounces is 5 cents. If the housekeeper uses condensed milk in 
quantity, it is better for her to bu}^ the 16-ounce can, as the cost per 
ounce is much less than if she purchases the 6-ounce can. Of course, 
it may be better economy for the woman to buy the No. 2 can of 
vegetables, but this is true only when the No. 2 can gives her exactly 
enough for one meal for her family. If there is a serving left over, 
it is evidently wiser for her to buy the No. 3 can, because then she 
has enough for two meals, and, with different methods of prepara- 
tion, will run no risk of monotony. 

It seems clear, then, that several elements enter into the wise buy- 
ing of food. One who enlists in that service ought to have a clear 
conception of the relation of these units of weights, cost, and 
measures. 



•^ 



so 



WAR ECONOMY IN FOOD. 
TABLE OF WEIGHTS AND MEASURES. 



Material. 



Apricots 

Bananas 

Beans, navy 

Beans, canned: 

String No. 2 

Lima No. 2 

Bread: 

Graham 

Rye, Ward's 

White, Ward's 

Whole wheat, Ward's. 

Butter 

Milk, condensed 



Molasses No. 2h. 
Pineapple: 

No. 1 llat... 

No. 2 tall.- - 
Prunts: 

Small 

Large 

Tapioca: 

Instant 

Minute , 

Pearl 



Weight. 



1 pound. 

do... 

....do... 



1 pound 2 oimces. 
1 poimd 4 oimces. 



12 ounces 

1 pound 

1 i:)onnd 2 ounces. . 
1 pound 4 ounces. . 

1 poimd 

6 ounces 

16 ouno<s 

2 poimds 6 ounces. 



9 ounces 

1 poimd 3 oimces. 



1 pound. 
do.. 



10 ounces. 

do... 

1 pound.. 



1 ounce of sugar measures 2 level tablespoons. 
i ounce of butter mcasur*s 2 level teaspoons. 

2 ounces of Hour measures J cup. 

Index No. E-7. 



Measure 



75 pieces. 
3 large. 
2J cups. 

1§ cups drained. 
Bo. 

14 Hnch slices. 
21 |-inch slices. 
16 J-inch slices. 

15 i-inch slices. 
48 squares. 

i cup. 
IJ cups. 
2^ cups. 

5 slices. 
10 slices. 

40 prunes. 
28-30 primes. 

If cups. 

Do. 

2J cups. 



o 




014 357 338 2 • 



^ 



LIBRftRY OF CONGRESS 



014 357 338 2 # 



HolUnger Corp. 
pH8.5 



