Cornell University Library 
TX 809.M2H6 1918 

The corn cook book. 

3 1924 001 742 083 



FROM THE LIBRARY OF 



James B. Herndon, Jr, 



PRESENTED BY HIM TO THE 

School of Hotel 
Administration 



CORNELL UNIVERSITY 




Cornell University 
Library 



The original of tliis book is in 
tine Cornell University Library. 

There are no known copyright restrictions in 
the United States on the use of the text. 



http://www.archive.org/details/cu31924001742083 



THE CORN COOK BOOK 



The 

Corn 
Cook Book 



[WAR EDITION] 



Compiled and Arranged by 

Elizabeth O. Hiller 

Formerly Principal of the Chicago Domestic 

Science Training School, Lecturer 

on Household Economics 



Published by 
P. F. VOLLAND COMPANY 
New York CHICAGO Toronto 



Copyright, 1918, 

P. F. Volland Company 

Chicago 

(AH rights Reserved) 



Preface 

"Save the wheat" is the call that has been sent out 
from Washington to the housekeepers of America. 

In response to this urgent plea, this new War Edition 
of the Corn Cook Book containing 200 recipes has been 
compiled, showing the various ways that this valuable 
cereal can be utilized so as to save wheat for ourselves 
and our Allies. 

Corn is the American Indian's greatest gift to civiliza- 
tion. The early colonists used it to a large extent. It 
is still one of the most important and delectable foods of 
the South and the New England States. No one who 
has tasted the real Southern Corn Pone will ever forget its 
deliciousness. 

This book includes many substantial, inexpensive 
dishes made from corn, some of which are unusually 
attractive in appearance as well as taste. Each recipe 
has been carefully tested and will produce satisfactory 
results if the instructions given in the chapter on Measur- 
ing and Combining Ingredients are faithfully followed. 

These simple, palatable, wholesome dishes will lend 
great variety to the daily menus and enable the housewife 
to utilize at the lowest possible cost the cereal which 
ranks in food value with wheat. 

To the housewives of America the author dedicates 
this little volume "The Corn Cook Book" with the 
earnest hope that it will do its part towards winning the 
war by helping to conserve the Nation's Food. 

Faithfully yours, 

Mrs. Elizabeth O. Hiller. 



How to Measure Ingredients 

It is absolutely necessary to measure all ingredients 
correctly to insure success in cooking. 

Satisfactory results have been attained, occasionally, 
by those of long experience and good judgment in measur- 
ing by sight; but when fjiilures are made, discourage- 
ment follows and, too, habits of wastefulness are acquired 
by this "hit or miss" method. The majority of people 
need a definite system of measurements which, when 
carefully followed, must yield satisfactory results. 
Granite measuring cups, divided in thirds and quar- 
ters, holding one-half pint, table and teaspoons of regula- 
tion size, a common case knife, all of which may be pur- 
chased at any kitchen furnishing store, are among the 
essential articles for measuring correctly. Flour, meal, 
powdered sugar, soda, mustard, ginger, baking powder, 
and all ingredients which stand in boxes, settle and some- 
times harden in lumps, should be crushed and sifted 
before meeisuring. A cupful is a half-pint cup filled, and 
leveled with a knife. 

To fill a measuring cup, a table or teaspoon 

Toss the dry ingredients lightly into a meeisuring cup, 
heap it slightly, and level it with a knife. Shortening, 
such as butter, lard and other fats, are packed solidly 
into both cup and spoon, and leveled with a knife. A 
tablespoon is measured level. A teaspoon is measured 
level. 

In measuring with either tea or tablespoon, dip the 
spoon into the material, fill it, lift, and level with a case 
knife, turning sharp edge of blade toward handle of spoon. 
Divide with the knife, lengthwise of bowl of spoon for a 
half, divide the half crosswise for a quarter and the 
quarter crosswise for an eighth. When less than an eighth 
is called for use a few grains. A tablespoon of correct 



size should hold three level teaspoons. A teaspoon 
should hold sixty drops of liquid. 

Measuring Liquids 

A cup of liquid is an even cupful or all the cup will 
hold. Tablespoon and teaspoonful is all the spoon will 
hold. When the following ingredients are called for in a 
recipe, measure the dry, fats and liquids in the order 
given, thereby making one cup serve the purpose of all. 

To Combine Mixtures 

Use an earthen mixing bowl of ample size for mixing 
batters and doughs. Mix with a wooden spoon. Measure 
all ingredients correctly; mix and sift the flour, baking 
powder, spices, etc., before measuring. 

Count out the desired number of eggs, selecting those 
of uniform size, especially if a cake is to be made. Break 
each egg separately over a cup; that there may be no 
loss should a stale one chance to be one of the number. 

Separate the whites from the yolks when so specified. 
Eggs are beaten three degrees of lightness. They are 
"slightly beaten" when whites and yolks, beaten to- 
gether, will run from the tines of a fork. They are 
"lightly beaten," when beaten thick, very light and a 
lemon tint. 

Whites are beaten alone stiff and dry. 

Measure butter and liquid as suggested in the fore- 
going. Having everything in readiness, the mixing and 
baking of these mixtures may be quickly done. 

TIMELY SUGGESTIONS 

The milk called for in the recipes incorporated in 
this book is skimmed milk, except where cream is called 
for and in such recipes the finished product will serve as 
the main dish for breakfast, luncheon or supper. 



Milk should always be heated or scalded over hot 
water. Milk is seldom boiled in modern cookery. 
Occasionally" boiled milk "is found in Sick Room Cookery. 

Water should be boiling rapidly when cereals are 
added. Corn meal and granulated hominy will combine 
with boiling water more readily if it is first moistened 
with some of the water before water is set to boil. Mush 
and porridges of all kinds are better seasoned if the 
seasoning is added to the boiling water, before adding 
the meal or cereal. 

Long, slow cooking develops the flavor of corn meal 
and hominy and aids materially the process of digestion. 

When preparing mush for frying, part milk should 
form part of the liquid or wetting to insure a rich brown 
crisp surface when finished. Mush to be sliced for frying 
etc., should never be packed in either tin or Russia iron 
bread pans as the salt and moisture will cause rust to 
form and settle on the mush and when turned from 
pan these spots look unsightly. A brick-shaped agate 
bread pan is best for this purpose or Pyrex glass bread 
pans. 

Lightly grease the knife used for slicing cold mush; 
it will cut more evenly without breaking. 

Tried out salt pork fat is the best fat to use for 
sauteing purposes as it burns at a very high temperature, 
This is especially true of butter. The vegetable oils give 
very satisfactory results both for deep frying and sauteing. 

Corn meal and all cereals should be kept in a cool, 
dry place. The "water milled" corn meal from which 
nothing is removed makes the best flavored pone, 
dodgers, mush and in fact all the quick breads usually 
made from corn meal. 

This (Water Milled) corn meal has not the keeping 
qualities that the modern commercial corn meals have. 
It should therefore be purchased in smaller quantities 
and used at once. 

9 



MOTIONS USED IN MIXING INGREDIENTS 

Three motions are considered in mixing batters, 
doughs and other ingredients, namely: stirring, beating, 
cutting and folding. 

STIRRING is a rotary motion ordinarily used in all 
cookery. It is to thoroughly mix the ingredients. 

BEATING is turning the ingredients over and over 
to thoroughly mix, and at the same time incorporating 
air into the mixture. With each beating motion the spoon 
is brought constantly in contact with the bottom of the 
dish, bringing the contents over the top folding them in 
again. Beating is used in combination with stirring. 

CUTTING and FOLDING is introducing one ingre- 
dient into a mixture, one or the other being the lighter of 
the two. This is accomplished with the wooden cake 
spoon, by making vertical cuts downward and turning 
mixture over, allowing the bowl of the spoon to bring 
the contents of the bottom of the dish over the top then 
folding them in again. The spoon turns entirely around 
in one's hand in making this motion. Repeat this motion 
alternately with beating until mixtures are thoroughly 
blended. When stiffly beaten whites of eggs are Ccilled 
for in a recipe they should always be cut and folded into 
such mixtures. 



IMPORTANT— The foregoinglnstructlonsmust be carefullyfollowed; 
the ingredients called for in the recipes must be used, to Insure suc- 
cess in the finished product. Each recipe in this Com Cook Book 
has been carefully tested by an expert— a graduated teacher In 
household economics. 



10 



CHAPTER I. 

HASTY PUDDING 
(Com Meal Mush) 

Put one quart of boiling water in top of the double 
boiler, add one and one-half teaspoons salt, mix two cups 
yellow or white corn meal, with two cups of cold milk, 
stir this slowly into the boiling water, boil five minutes, 
stirring constantly, then place vessel over hot water, let 
cook five hours stirring occasionally to prevent mush 
from lumping. The longer it steams the more delicious 
the flavor, serve with milk or cream. If white and yellow 
corn meal is made into "Hasty Pudding" in separate 
vessels, then packed in alternate layers in a brick-shaped 
mold, sliced when cold and served with cream and sugar, 
it makes a very attractive and inexpensive dessert for 
children. 

FRIED CORN MEAL MUSH 

Prepare the mush as in the recipe above, then pack 
solidly into an agate brick-shape bread pan measuring 
seven inches long, three and one-half inches wide and 
two and one-half inches deep, rinsed inside with cold 
water so that the mush will be more easily removed 
when cold. Chill the mush, then turn on the cutting 
board and cut in slices three-quarters of an inch thick. 
Fry a golden brown on one side, then with a griddle cake 
"spade" turn and brown the other. Use lard or pure, 
sweet drippings. Never butter, for it burns quickly and 
before the mush is browned, spoiling both the look and 
taste of the mush. Serve with crisp bacon. 

SKIMMED MILK AHD BUTTER SUBSTITUTE MAY BE USED IN ALL 
RECIPES EXCEPT THOSE CALLING FOR CREAM. 

11 



FRIED MUSH FAIRMONT STYLE 

Pack com meal mush into a brick-shaped bread pan 
(dimensions 9x4x3 J4 inches). When cold, turn on a 
board and cut in slices one inch in thickness; dip in 
egg slightly beaten and diluted with two tablespoons 
milk, then in fine sifted cracker crumbs. Repeat to 
insure their being well crumbed. Fry to a golden brown 
in deep hot fat. Drain on soft, brown paper and serve 
at once. 

CORN MEAL MUSH WITH LEMON FLAVOR 

1 cup milk yi teaspoon salt 

1 }4 cups cold water 4 tablespoons powdered sugar 

% cup corn meal Thin yellow rind }^ lemon 
1 tablespoon butter 

PROCESS : Mix corn meal, salt and sugar, add milk 
slowly, stirring constantly, add water and lemon rind, 
stir until smooth and without lumps. Place on range, 
bring to boiling point, continue stirring and cook five 
minutes. Then cook two hours over hot water, stir 
occasionally. Just before serving add butter. Serve as 
a cereal with rich cream or as a dessert. Orange rind may 
be used in place of lemon rind; the flavor of either is 
delightful. 



SKIMMED Mn,K AND BUTTER SUBSTITUTE MAY BE USED IN ALL 
RECIPES EXCEPT THOSE CALLING FOR CREAM. 

12 



PAUNHAUS 

1 quart boiling water 2^ teaspoons salt 

1 quart cold water J^ teaspoon black pepper 

2 cups corn meal J^ teaspoon poultry seasoning 

1 cup buckwheat flour }4 pound liver sausage cut ih 

small pieces 

PROCESS: Mix the dry ingredients in a bowl; 
moisten with the cold water, then add slowly into boiling 
water stirring constantly; add sausage and mix thor- 
oughly. Cook in a cast aluminum kettle over a slow fire 
two and one-half hours, stirring occasionally. An 
asbestos mat placed under the kettle will protect mixture 
from scorching on bottom of kettle. Pour into agate 
bread pans previously wet with cold water. When cold 
remove from pans and cut one-half inch slices and cook 
as Fried Mush. Serve as the meat course at breakfast 
or luncheon. 



STEAMED PEARL HOMINY 
(Samp) 

Soak one cup pearl hominy over night in warm water 
to cover. In the morning add two quarts boiling water, 
season with salt and heat to boiling point. Boil briskly 
five minutes. Reduce the heat and simmer five or six 
hours or until hominy is tender. Add one-fourth cup 
butter and serve with top milk or cream. Great care 
must be taken that hominy does not scorch; it should be 
stiried constantly the first five minutes, afterwards 
occasionally. If cooked in a double boiler it should 
steam all day, or all night in a fireless cooker. 



SKIMMED MILK AKD BUTTER SUBSTITUTE MAY BE USED IH ALL 
RECIPES EXCEPT THOSE CALLING FOR CREAM. 

13 



STEAMED SAMP 

yi cup samp 1 H cups boiling water 

Cold water 1 H cups hot milk 

% teaspoon salt 

PROCESS: Cover samp with cold water; let stand 
over night. Drain, put into double boiler, add boiling 
water, hot milk and salt. Bring to boiling point, place 
in lower part of double boiler containing boiling water 
and steam five or six hours, or cook in fireless cooker 
over night. Serve with top milk or cream and sugar. 



CORN MEAL DODGERS NO. 1 

2 cups fine white corn meal H teaspoon salt 

1 tablespoon sugar 3 tablespoons rich milk or 

2 eggs cream 

1 tablespoon butter or lard Boiling water 

PROCESS: Mix and sift com meal, salt and sugar; 
add sufficient boiling water to thoroughly moisten the 
meal, but not to make it soft; add butter and milk; 
when cold add the yolks beaten very light; then cut and 
fold in the whites beaten until stiff. The batter should 
drop readily from the spoon, but not thin enough to pour 
nor stiff enough to be scraped from the bowl. Shape in 
oval cakes, lay in a hissing hot, well greased dripping 
pan, and bake in a very hot oven until brown and puffed ; 
split, butter and serve with fried salt pork in cream sauce. 



SKIMMED MILK AND BUTTER SDBSTITDTE MAY BE USED IN ALL 
BECIPES EXCEPT THOSE CALLING FOR CREAM. 

14 



CORN DODGERS NO. 2 

1 quart corn meal 1 teaspoon salt 

2 tablespoons maple or brown 2 tablespoons lard 
sugar Scalded milk and water 

PROCESS: Add salt, sugar and lard to corn meal; 
mix well, and pour over enough boiling water to make a 
batter to drop from tip of spoon; they should be an inch 
thick in the center and flatten slightly into oval cakes. 
Beat the batter five minutes before dropping them into a 
hot, well greased dripping pan. The maple sugar or 
syrup improves the flavor and makes the dodgers brown 
more richly. 

PONE CORN BREAD 

2 cups corn meal (hand ground) }^ teaspoon soda 

}^ teaspoon salt J^ tablespoon melted lard, 

1 }i cups buttermilk bacon or ham fat 

PROCESS : Mix well corn meal, salt and soda. Add 
melted fat and buttermilk, stir until well blended, then 
drop in oval cakes about three inches long by two and 
one-half inches wide on a well greased tin sheet or an 
inverted dripping pan. Bake twenty-five minutes in a 
hot oven. If not brown on top reduce heat and brown 
under the gas flame in, broiling oven. This requires but 
a minute or two._Split lengthwise, butter or lay a thin 
slice between while piping hot and serve at once. 



sehihed mile and butter substitute mat be used m all 

RECIPES EXCEPT THOSE CALLING FOR CREAM. 

15 



CORN PONE 

To one quart of white com meal (southern milled) 
add one and one-half teaspoons salt, one tablespoon 
melted lard, and sufficient scalded milk and boiHng 
water (equal parts) to make a mixture that can be molded 
with the hands into oblong cakes six inches long, three 
inches wide and one inch thick; they should be thin on 
the edges with tapering ends. Before molding them, the 
mixture should be worked well with the hands, then 
shape the pones, place them on a hot, well greased tin 
sheet, brush over with melted butter or milk and bake 
twenty-five minutes in a hot oven. When done, split 
each one, butter and lay a thin slice of crisp bacon in 
each, sandwich fashion. Serve immediately. 



INDIAN BANNOCKS 

1 cup corn meal 2 cups scalded milk 

1 teaspoon maple syrup or sugar 2 eggs 
1 teaspoon salt 

PROCESS: Add corn meal gradually to scalded 
milk while stirring constantly, add syrup and salt; cool 
and add yolks beaten very lightly, then the whites 
beaten until stiff. Bake in a well greased, shallow 
pudding dish in very hot oven, twenty-five minutes. 
Serve in pudding dish. 



SKIMMED MILE AND BUTTER SUBSTITUTE MAY BE USED IN ALL 
RECIPES EXCEPT THOSE CALLING FOR CREAM. 

16 



INDIAN MEAL FLAPJACKS 

2 cups yellow corn meal 1 tablespoon sugar 

H teaspoon salt Scalded milk 

2 eggs Cold milk 
1 tablespoon butter 

PROCESS: Mix and sift corn meal, salt and sugar, 
add sufficient scalded milk to moisten meal, add butter, 
■when cool add eggs beaten until thick and lemon tinted 
and cold milk enough to make a thin batter. Cook on 
well greased, hissing hot griddle as griddle cakes. 

RHODE ISLAND JOHNNY CAKES 

1 cup white corn meal 1 J^ teaspoons salt 

1 teaspoon sugar 1 tablespoon butter 

Boiling water Cold milk 

PROCESS: Pour over all boiling water enough to 
scald, beating constantly until a rather stiff mush is 
formed. Add cold milk until of the consistency to drop 
from tip of spoon. Drop with a spoon on a well greased, 
hot griddle. Cook slowly until richly browned on one 
side; turn and brown the other side. Serve with butter 
and maple syrup. / 

CORN MEAL CRISPYS 

1 cup corn meal 3 tablespoons melted butter 

1 cup boiling water Vi teaspoon salt 

PROCESS: Sift corn meal slowly into boiling water 
while stirring constantly. When perfectly smooth add 
butter and salt. Spread smoothly on a buttered, inverted 
dripping pan to about one-eighth inch thickness, using 
a spatula. Bake in a moderate oven until richly browned . 
Cut in strips the size of Saratoga wafers. Remove from 
pan and serve immediately. 

SKIMMED MILK AND BUTTER SUBSTITUTE MAY BE USED IN ALL 
RECIPES EXCEPT THOSE CALLING FOR CREAM. 

17 



POLENTA WITH MUSHROOM SAUCE 

2 cups boiling water 1 teaspoon salt 

1 cup corn meal J^ cup grated cheese 

2 cups cold water 2 tablespoons butter 

PROCESS: Mix com meal with cold water and 
gradually stir into boiling water, add salt and stir con- 
stantly until mush is smooth. Bring to boiling point and 
cook slowly over hot water until thoroughly cooked 
(about three hours). Remove from range, add butter and 
cheese; return to range and stir until cheese is melted 
and thoroughly blended with mush. Serve hot in place 
of meat with mushroom sauce or tomato sauce. 



MUSHROOM SAUCE 

6 fresh mushrooms or J^ cup 1 small clove garlic finely 

dried mushrooms chopped 

1 small onion finely chopped }^ cup bacon fat or butter 

Beef extract }/i cup Brown Stock 

PROCESS : If fresh mushrooms are used they should 
be thinly sliced. If dried mushrooms are used, soak 
them in cold water to cover several hours or over night. 
Drain and reserve one-half cup of the water; finely chop 
mushrooms. Cook mushrooms, onion and garlic in fat 
until delicately browned. Heat mushroom liquor to 
boiling point, add beef extract stir until melted then add 
to mushroom mixture. Simmer ten minutes and serve 
in a sauce boat. The sauce may be strained if desired. 



SKIMMED MnX AND BUTTER SUBSTITUTE MAY BE USED m ALL 
RECIPES EXCEPT THOSE CALLING FOR CREAM. 

18 



POLENTA WITH CHEESE 

2 cups boiling water 1 cup grated cheese 

2 cups hot milk 1 tablespoon Worcestershire 

1 teaspoon salt Sauce 

1 cup fine hominy Few grains cayenne 

PROCESS: Put water and milk in top vessel of 
double boiler, add salt and bring to boiling point; then 
sift in hominy very slowly while stirring constantly. 
Boil three minutes, continue stirring. Cook over hot 
water three hours or over night in a fireless cooker. 
Remove from range, add cheese, Worcestershire Sauce 
and cayenne; stir until cheese is melted ; then turn into 
a shallow granite pan (first rinsed with cold water) to the 
depth of one inch. When cold cut in two and one-half- 
inch squEires, roll carefully in fine crumbs, then in egg 
and again in crumbs. Fry in deep hot fat or saute in 
hot salt pork fat. Serve with Tomato Sauce. This dish 
is a splendid substitute for meat. 

SPANISH POLENTA 

4 cups boiling water 1 medium sized green pepper 

IJi teaspoons salt 1J4 cups corn meal 

1 medium size onion 1 cup finely chopped cheese 

1 small clove garlic Few grains cayenne 

PROCESS: Pour water into top vessel of double 
boiler, add salt, onion, garlic and green pepper (discard- 
ing seeds and veins of latter) finely chopped; heat to 
boiling point then sift in corn meal slowly while stirring 
constantly. Add cayenne, cover and cook over boiling 
water two hours. Add cheese and continue cooking 
until cheese is melted. Serve as the main dish for lunch- 
eon or supper. May be served for dinner to help out a 
shortage of meat. Pass tomato sauce in a sauce boat. 

SKIMMED MILK AHB BUTTER SUBSTITUTE MAT BE USED W ALL 
RECIPES EXCEPT THOSE CALLING FOR CREAM. 

19 



ONION CORN PONE 

2 cups corn bread crumbs yi teaspoon salt 

3 tablespoons onion finely chopped }4 teaspoon black pepper 

1 tablespoon bacon fat M teaspoon Poultry Seasoning 

3 tablespoons hot water 2 eggs well beaten 

PROCESS: Finely crumble cold corn bread. Meas- 
ure crumbs. Melt bacon fat in an omelet pan and saute 
onion in fat until soft without browning. Add onion to 
prepared crumbs, rinse pan with hot water and add 
water to mixture. Sift in seasonings and add eggs beaten 
until thick and lemon tinted. Mix thoroughly and with 
the hands shape in pone cakes and cook as griddle cakes 
in plenty of hot salt pork fat. Serve with Brown Sauce 
or Tomato Sauce. 

PHILADELPHIA SCRAPPLE 
(The Real Scrapple) 

Clean and cook a pig's head in boiling water to cover, 
until the meat slips from the bones. Remove bones and 
meat; finely chop meat. Strain liquor and let stand 
until cold, then remove fat and heat liquor to the boiling 
point. Add prepared meat and season highly with salt 
and pepper. Then sift in with one hand, while stirring 
with the other, enough corn meal to make mixture the 
consistency of mush. Let boil three or four minutes 
while stirring constantly, then reduce the heat and let 
cook slowly for two hours or more, stirring occasionally. 
When sufficiently cooked turn into brick-shaped agate 
pans and keep in a cold place. Cut in slices three-fourths 
of an inch thick and saute in bacon fat or salt pork fat. 
The scrapple will keep some time in cold weather. In 
some parts of Pennsylvania the scrapple is seasoned with 
a little sage. 

SKIMMED MILE USD BUTTER SUBSTITUTE MAY BE USED IN ALL 
RECIPES EXCEPT THOSE CALLING FOR CREAM. 

20 



SCRAPPLE WITH LIVER SAUSAGE 

3 14 cups boiling water 1 cup corn meal 

1 teaspoon salt J^ pound liver sausage 

PROCESS : Add salt to boiling water, then sift corn 
meal through the fingers with one hand while stirring 
vigorously with the other. Stir until mush is smooth. 
Cook in a double boiler two or three hours. Remove 
casing from sausage, cut sausage in half -inch cubes. Add 
to mush, mix well and turn into a brick-shaped bread 
pan and chill. Cut in one-half-inch slices and saute in 
bacon fat or salt pork fat. Serve for breakfast. 



SKIMMED MILK AND BUTTER SUBSTITUTE MAY BE USED IN ALL 
RECIPES EXCEPT THOSE CALLING FOR CREAM. 

21 



CHAPTER II. 



CORN MEAL MUFFINS No. 1 

Ji cup yellow corn meal M teaspoon salt 

J^ cup flour % tablespoon melted butter 

1 yi teaspoons baking powder % cup milk 

}^ tablespoon sugar 1 egg 

PROCESS: Sift together the first five ingredients. 
Add melted butter and gradually the milk, stirring con- 
stantly. Then add egg beaten until thick and lemon 
tinted. Beat batter one minute. Then turn into warm, 
buttered iron gem pans and bake twenty-five minutes 
in a hot oven. Serve while hot. 



CORN MEAL MUFFINS No. 2 

Ji cup butter 1 cup flour 

yi cup sugar % teaspoon salt 

Yolks 2 eggs well beaten 4 teaspoons baking powder 

% cup corn meal 1 yi cups sweet milk 

Whites 2 eggs beaten until stiff 

PROCESS: Cream butter, add sugar gradually to 
beaten yolks. Sift together corn meal, flour, salt and 
baking powder; add to first mixture alternately with 
milk. Then fold in the beaten whites of eggs. Bake in 
hot, buttered iron gem cups twenty-five minutes in a 
hot oven. 



SKIMMED Mn,K AND BUTTER SUBSTITUTE MAY BE USED lU AIX 
RECIPES EXCEPT THOSE CALLING FOR CREAM. 

22 



CORN MEAL MUFFINS WITH RICE 

% cup scalded milk 2 tablespoons sugar 

H cup corn meal 3 teaspoons baking powder 

yi cup hot cooked rice 1 tablespoon melted butter 

14 cup flour 1 egg 

1 teaspoon salt 

PROCESS: Pour scalded milk on corn meal, let 
stand five minutes. Add hot rice and mix thoroughly 
with the tips of fingers, add flour sifted with salt, baking 
powder and sugar, add melted butter, the yolk of egg 
beaten very light; lastly cut and fold in the white of 
egg beaten until stiff. Bake in well buttered, hot iron 
gem cups twenty minutes in hot oven. 

CURRANT MUFFINS 

J4 cup shortening 2 cups corn meal 

% cup sugar 1 cup white flour 

3 eggs 1 teaspoon salt 

1 J^ cups milk 1 }4 tablespoons baking powder 

14 cup dried currants or sultana raisins 

PROCESS: Cream shortening; add sugar gradually, 
stirring constantly. Beat eggs until thick and lemon 
tinted, add to first mixture, continue stirring. Add milk 
alternately with the dry ingredients which have been 
sifted together. Add currants or sultana raisins slightly 
floured. If sultanas are large cut them in halves. Bake 
in well buttered gem cups twenty-five minutes in a hot 
oven. Serve at luncheon or supper in place of cake. 
These muffins are delicious and will take the place of 
small cakes during "War Times." The habit will then 
be formed and the true economist will continue their use 
for this purpose forever after. 



SKIMMED MILK AND BUTTER SUBSTITUTE MAY BE USED DJ ALL 
RECIPES EXCEPT THOSE CALLING FOR CREAM. 

23 



CORN MEAL AND RICE MUFFINS 

1 cup boiled rice % cup flour 

% cup scalded milk M teaspoon salt 

2 tablespoons strained bacon fat 2 tablespoons sugar 

% cup corn meal 3 teaspoons baking powder 

1 egg well beaten 

PROCESS: Add milk to rice and stir with a fork 
until kernels are separated; add dry ingredients sifted 
together, add bacon fat and beat until thoroughly blended 
then add egg beaten until thick and lemon tinted. Turn 
into well buttered, hot iron gem cups to two-thirds their 
depth. Bcike twenty minutes in a hot oven. 

CREAM CORN MEAL GEMS 

yi cup corn meal J^ teaspoon salt 

1 cup flour M cup cream 

3 teaspoons baking powder 1 egg lightly beaten 

2 tablespoons sugar 

PROCESS: Mix and sift the dry ingredients; add 
cream gradually, the egg, beat well; bake in buttered 
gem cups twenty-five minutes in a hot oven. If a plainer 
gem is desired, use milk in place of cream and add one 
tablespoon melted butter. 

CREAM CORN MUFFINS 

fi cup corn meal % teaspoon salt 

1 cup white flour 1 cup thin cream 

4 teaspoons baking powder 2 eggs beaten very light 

M cup sugar 4 tablespoons melted butter 

PROCESS: Sift together com meal, flour, baking 
powder, sugar and salt. Add cream gradually and stir 
to a smooth batter. Add well beaten eggs and melted 
butter. Beat thoroughly and bake in hissing hot, 
buttered gem cups in a hot oven, twenty minutes. 

SKIMMED MILK AND BUTTER SUBSTITUTE MAY BE USED IN ALL 
RECIPES EXCEPT THOSE CALLING FOR CREAM. 

24 



DAINTY CORN MEAL MUFFINS 

J^ cup corn meal Few grains mace 

% cup boiling water 2 teaspoons baking powder 

2 tablespoons butter 3 tablespoons sugar 

]4 cup pastry flour 1 egg well beaten 

}i teaspoon salt 14 cup top milk 

PROCESS : Pour boiling water over corn meal, adcj 
butter and stir until well mixed. Cover and let stand an 
hour or two. Add flour sifted with salt, mace, baking 
powder and sugar. Add milk and well beaten egg, 
beating constantly. Bake in well buttered, small muffin 
pans twenty minutes. This recipe makes twelve small 
muffins. 



RICH CORN MEAL MUFFINS 

Ji cup butter 1 cup flour 

}i cup sugar % teaspoon salt 

Yolks 2 eggs well beaten 4 teaspoons baking powder 

J£ cup corn meal 1 \i cups sweet milk 

Whites 2 eggs beaten until stiff 

PROCESS: Cream butter, add sugar gradually to 
well beaten yolks. Sift together corn meal, flour, salt 
and bciking powder; add to first mixture alternately with 
milk, then fold in the beaten whites of eggs. Bake in 
hot, buttered iron gem cups twenty-five minutes in a 
hot oven. 



SKIMMED MILE AND BUTTER SUBSTITUTE MAY BE USED IN ALL 
RECIPES EXCEPT THOSE CALLING FOR CREAM. 

25 



CORN MEAL AND BARLEY MEAL MUFFINS 

J^ cup corn meal J4 teaspoon soda 

14 cup barley meal Ji cup molasses 

1 cup flour 1 egg and 1 egg yolk 
3 tablespoons baking powder 1 cup thick sour milk 

i4 teaspoon salt 3 tablespoons sausage fat 

PROCESS: Sift together the dry ingredients; add 
molasses and well beaten eggs; then gradually pour in 
sour milk while stirring constantly; add melted shorten- 
ing and if mixture appears too thick add more sour milk. 
Bake in hot well greased iron mufifin cups in a hot oven, 
twenty-five minutes. If these muffins are made with 
sweet milk the soda must be omitted. Serve hot. 

CORN MEAL POPOVERS 

2 cups scalded milk 14 teaspoon salt 

1 cup corn meal 3 eggs beaten very light 

1 tablespoon butter 

PROCESS : Stir corn meal into hot milk ; add butter 
and salt, cool slightly and add eggs, beat mixture two 
minutes and turn into hissing hot, well greased iron gem 
cups; bake thirty-five minutes in a hot oven; strongest 
heat must come from bottom. 



CORN MEAL FOR CRXJMBING FISH 

For crumbing fish for sauteing or frying; use seasoned 
corn meal. Season the meal to be used for this purpose 
with salt and pepper; roll the fish in the meal, dip in egg 
and again roll in meal. Then saute fish in salt pork fat 
or fry in deep, hot fat. 



SKIMMED Mn,K AND BUTTER SXJBSTITUTE MAY BE USED HI ALL 
RECIPES EXCEPT THOSE CALLING FOR CREAM. 

26 



PARKER HOUSE CORN ROLLS 

1 H cup white flour 1 tablespoon sugar 

Ji cup corn meal 2 tablespoons butter 

4 teaspoons baking powder 1 egg 

li teaspoon salt 14 cup milk 

PROCESS: Sift together dry ingredients; rub in 
butter with the tips of fingers; beat egg until thick and 
lemon tinted, add one-half cupmilk, add to first mixture, 
add remciining milk if necessary. The dough must be 
soft as can be handled. Turn on a floured board, knead 
slightly cmd roll to one-half -inch thickness. Shape with a 
small biscuit cutter, crease through center of each round 
with handle of knife, brush one-half of each round with 
soft butter; fold as Parker House rolls, press edges 
lightly together. Arrange on a buttered baking sheet 
and beike fifteen minutes in a hot oven. Serve at once. 



HOMmy AND CORN MEAL MUFFINS 

Ji cup fine hominy % cup corn meal 

1 teaspoon salt 4 tablespoons sugar 

2 tablespoons butter Yolks 2 eggs 

H cup boiling water 4 teaspoons baking powder 

1 cup scalded milk Whites 2 eggs 

PROCESS: Cook hominy, salt and butter in double 
boiler twenty-five minutes, cool. Pour scalded milk 
over com meal, add sugar and hominy; yolks of eggs 
beaten until thick and light. Sift in baking powder and 
fold in the whites of eggs beaten until stiff. Bake in 
hot iron gem cups well buttered thirty minutes. 



SEIHHED MILK AND BUTTER SUBSTITUTE MAY BE USED m ALL 
RECIPES EXCEPT THOSE CALLING FOR CREAM. 

27 



HOMINY MUFFINS 

1 cup hominy porridge packed % teaspoon salt 
solidly % cup milk 

2 cups flour 2 tablespoons melted butter 

2 teaspoons sugar 2 eggs beaten very light 
4 teaspoons baking powder 

PROCESS : Sift together flour, salt, sugar and baking 
powder, add porridge and mix well, add melted butter 
and milk, beat until free from lumps. Add eggs beaten 
until thick and lemon tinted. Bake twenty-five minutes 
in a hot oven, in hot, well buttered iron gem cups. 

POPPETS 

1 cup corn meal 1 tablespoon melted butter 

1 cup flour 4 teaspoons baking powder 

1 tablespoon sugar 2 cups rich milk 

1 teaspoon salt 1 egg 

PROCESS: Mix and sift the dry ingredients, add 
butter, egg, beaten until thick and lemon tinted and 
added to milk; stir into first mixture and beat batter 
three minutes. Pour into hissing hot, well greased gem 
cups and bake in hot oven thirty minutes. 

CORN STICKS 

1 cup corn meal }/i cup hot boiled pearl hominy 

H cup flour a cup butter 

3 teaspoons baking powder 1 cup milk 

J^ teaspoon salt 2 eggs well beaten 

PROCESS: To hot hominy add butter, milk and 
well beaten eggs; add to dry ingredients that have been 
sifted together. Beat thoroughly and turn into buttered 
bread-stick pans and bake in a moderate oven, twenty- 
five minutes. 



SKIMMED MILK AND BUTTER SUBSTITUTE MAY BE USED IN ALL 
RECIPES EXCEPT THOSE CALLING FOR CREAM. 

28 



CORN MEAL YORKSHIRE PUDDING 

Pour one cup of boiling water over one cup of white 
corn meal, while stirring constantly; add one-half tea- 
spoon salt and two eggs beaten until thick and lemon- 
tinted. Pour some of the dripping from the roasting 
meat into a shallow baking dish, turn in the mixture, 
spread evenly and bake in an oven thirty-five minutes; 
baste three times while baking with some of the drip- 
ping from roasting pan. Serve hot, cut in squares, with 
roast beef, lamb or pork. 



CORN MEAL GRIDDLE CAKES NO. 2 
(Small Recipe) 

1 cup corn meal (Burr milled) 1 cup thick sour milk 
yi cup flour % teaspoon soda 

J4 teaspoon salt 1 egg 

2 teaspoons baking powder 2 tablespoons melted bacon, 

sausage fat or butter 

PROCESS: Sift flour, salt and baking powder into 
corn meal, mix well. Dissolve soda in the sour milk and 
add gradually to dry ingredients, stirring constantly. 
Add egg beaten until thick and lemon tinted and melted 
fat, beat mixture two minutes. Cook as griddle cakes. 
This recipe makes ten medium sized griddle cakes. 



SKIMMED MILK AND BUTTER SUBSTITUTE MAY BE USED IN ALL 
KECIPES EXCEPT THOSE CALLING FOR CREAM. 

29 



SOUR MILK CORN CAKES 

1 cup yellow corn meal 1 egg well beaten 

J^ cup flour M teaspoon soda 

H teaspoon salt 1 }i cups rich sour milk 
1 tablespoon bacon or sausage fat 

PROCESS: Sift together com meal, flour and salt. 
Beat egg until thick and lemon tinted, add to dry 
ingredients, mix well. Dissolve soda in milk and add to 
mixture gradually while stirring constantly. Add bacon 
fat and beat batter one minute. Fry at once on a well 
greased, hot griddle. If batter stands too long it will 
thicken and may then be thinned by adding more sour 
milk. Cook as other griddle cakes. 



CORN MEAL AND RICE GRIDDLE CAKES 
(Sour Milk) 

1 cup corn meal 2 tablespoons sugar 

H cup flour 1 cup cooked rice 

1 teaspoon salt 1 cup thick sour cream or 

1 teaspoon soda country buttermilk 
1 egg beaten until very light 

PROCESS: Sift together the dry ingredients; add 
rice and with the lingers mix it thoroughly with the dry 
ingredients, add sour milk or cream gradually, stirring 
constantly, then the well beaten egg. Beat batter two 
minutes and cook as other griddle cakes. 



SKIMMED Mn-K AHD BUTTER SUBSTITUTE MAT BE USED DS ALL 
RECIPES EXCEPT THOSE CALLING FOR CREAM. 

30 



CORN MEAL AND RICE GRIDDLE CAKES 
(With Sweet Milk) 

1 cup com meal 1 cup sweet milk 

2 cups cold boiled rice 1 tablespoon molasses 

H cup flour 1 tablespoon melted sausage 

4 teaspoons baking powder fat or butter 

1 % teaspoons salt 2 well beaten eggs 

PROCESS: Add com meal to rice and mix thor- 
oughly with the hand. Sift together flour, baking powder 
and salt. Add to first mixture alternately with milk, 
stirring constantly. Add molasses and shortening, con- 
tinue stirring, then fold in the lightly beaten eggs. Beat 
mixture two minutes and cook as griddle cakes. Serve 
with lemon, orange or maple syrup. 



"DELICIA" CORN MEAL AND BROWN RICE 
GRIDDLE CAKES 

1 cup com meal J^ teaspoon salt 

1 cup cooked brown rice 1 teaspoon soda 

a cup flour 1 }i cups rich sour milk 

2 eggs well beaten 

PROCESS: Sift together the dry ingredients; add 
rice and mix thoroughly; add sour milk gradually, 
stirring constantly. Add eggs and beat mixture two 
minutes. Cook as other griddle cakes. If the milk is 
not rich, add two tablespoons bacon or sausage fat. 



SKIMMED MILE AND BUTTER SUBSTITUTE MAY BE USED IS ALL 
BECIPES EXCEPT THOSE CALLmG FOR CREAM. 

31 



CORN MEAL GRIDDLE CAKES NO. 1 
(With Milk and Water) 

1 H cups corn meal 1 tablespoon Karo syrup 

yi cup flour 1 tablespoon bacon or sausage 

4 teaspoons baking powder fat 

1 teaspoon salt }i cup milk 

1 egg 5i cup cold water 

PROCESS: Sift together flour, baking powder and 
salt. Add corn meal, stir thoroughly, add syrup, melted 
fat and milk, stirring constantly; add water and egg 
beaten until thick and lemon tinted. Beat mixture two 
minutes and cook as other griddle cakes immediately. 
If this batter is allowed to stand too long before using it 
may be necessary to add more baking powder to replace 
that which has been lost by long standing. 



SCALDED CORN MEAL GRIDDLE CAKES 
(Old Alabama Recipe) 

2 cups corn meal Yolks 3 eggs 

1 a cups boiling water J^ cup milk 

1 teaspoon salt Whites 3 eggs 

PROCESS: Pour boiling water over corn meal 
mixed with salt; stir until well mixed and moistened 
throughout. Beat egg yolks until thick and light, add 
to first mixture, stirring constantly, add milk gradually 
and continue stirring. Beat whites of eggs until stiff, 
then cut and fold them carefully into batter. Beat two 
minutes. Cook as griddle cakes. Serve with crips bacon. 



SKIMMED MttK AND BUTTER SUBSTITUTE MAY BE USED IN ALL 
RECIPES EXCEPT THOSE CALLING FOR CREAM. 

32 



"PETE'S" CORN MEAL GRIDDLE CAKES 

2 cups corn meal 1 % teaspoons soda 

1 cup flour 2 J^ cups buttermilk or 

2 eggs well beaten clappered milk 
1 teaspoon salt 

PROCESS: Mix and sift corn meal, flour and salt; 
add eggs, mix well. Dissolve soda in milk; add to first 
mixture. Beat thoroughly and fry at once. If allowed 
to stand too long mixture thickens; may be thinned by 
adding more milk. The sour milk must be rich. Butter- 
milk is best for this purpose. 



CORN MEAL AND BUCKWHEAT GRIDDLE CAKES 

J^ cup corn meal (hand ground) 1 teaspoon soda dissolved in 

% cup buckwheat flour 1 M cups buttermilk 

yi cup bread flour H tablespoon melted butter 

J^ teaspoon salt or sausage fat 

1 teaspoon sugar 1 tablespoon molasses 

1 egg well beaten 

PROCESS: Sift buckwheat, flour, salt and sugar 
into corn meal, (do not sift the latter), add one cup 
buttermilk, melted butter and soda dissolved in remain- 
ing one-fourth cup buttermilk, stirring constantly; add 
molasses and well beaten egg. Beat batter two minutes 
and cook as other griddle cakes. 



SKIMMED MILE AHD BUTTER SUBSTITUTE MAY BE USED IN ALL 
RECIPES EXCEPT THOSE CALLING FOR CREAM. 

33 



LEFT OVER GRANULATED HOMINY 
GRIDDLE CAKES 

1 cup cold cooked granulated 2 H teaspoons baking powder 

hominy 1 tablespoon sugar 

1 well beaten egg H teaspoon salt 

1 cup milk J^ teaspoon nutmeg or mace 

1 cup flour 1 tablespoon melted butter 

PROCESS: Put hominy into mixing bowl, add egg 
beaten until thick and lemon tinted, stir constantly 
while adding milk gradually. Sift together flour, baking 
powder, salt, sugar and nutmeg, add gradually to first 
mixture, beating and stirring until all ingredients are 
well blended. Add melted butter, stir two minutes and 
cook as griddle cakes. Serve with brown sugar syrup. 



FLANNEL CAKES NO. 1 

2 cups scalded milk }i teaspoon salt 

}i compressed yeast-cake 1 tablespoon melted butter 

}4 cup corn meal 1 egg 

1 cup white flour 

PROCESS: Set the following mixture to rise over 
night; scald meal with milk, add butter and flour; 
when mixture is lukewarm add yeast dissolved in one- 
fourth cup of lukewarm water; cover and set to rise in 
a warm place (68 degrees F.). In the morning add salt 
and egg; yolk and white beaten separately. Cook as 
griddle cakes. 



SKIMMED MILK AND BUTTER SUBSTITUTE MAY BE USED IN ALL 
RECIPES EXCEPT THOSE CALLING FOR CREAM. 

34 



FLANNEL CAKES NO. 2 

1 yi cups com meal 2 tablespoons molasses or sugar 

3 cups scalded milk % yeast-cake dissolved in 

H cup strained bacon or sausage fat M cup lukewarm water 
Ji tablespoon salt 1 )^ cups flour or rye meal 

PROCESS: Pour scalded milk over com meal; add 
fat and when lukewarm add remaining ingredients. 
Cover and set to rise in a warm place over night. In 
the morning beat mixture lightly and cook as griddle 
cakes. 



HOMINY WAFFLES NO. 1 

1 cup cooked granulated hominy 1 J^ tablespoons baking powder 
packed solidly 1 cup rich milk 

}i cup com meal }i cup melted butter or bacon 

2 cups flour fat 
1 teaspoon salt 3 eggs 

PROCESS: Sift together com meal, flour, salt and 
baking powder, add hominy and mix thoroughly until 
mixture is like meal. Add milk gradually, stirring con- 
stantly, then add melted fat and eggs beaten until 
thick and lemon tinted. Beat mixture until smooth and 
well blended. Cook in a hot, well greased waffle iron. 
This recipe will make eight large waffles. Serve with 
lemon or orange syrup. 



SKIMIIED MILE AND BUTTER SUBSTITUTE MAT BE USED IN ALL 
RECIPES EXCEPT THOSE CALLING FOR CREAM. 

35 



HOMINY GRIDDLE CAKES 

1 cup cooked hominy H teaspoon salt 

2 cups flour 1 cup sweet milk 

5 teaspoons baking powder 3 tablespoons cream 

legg 

PROCESS: Sift together flour, baking powder and 
salt; add cold porridge and mix thoroughly to prevent 
mixture from being lumpy; beat egg until thick and 
lemon tinted; add milk and cream to egg and combine 
with first mixture; beat thoroughly and fry as girddle 

HOMINY WAFFLES NO. 2 

1 cup hominy porridge packed 3 tablespoons melted butter 
solidly 6 teaspoons baking powder 

2 H cups flour H teaspoon salt 

1 cup milk 3 eggs beaten thick and light 

PROCESS : Sift together flour, salt and baking pow- 
der; add porridge, mix thoroughly, add butter; pour 
milk into beaten eggs and add to first mixture; beat 
until free from lumps; fry in hot, well greased wafile iron, 
allowing three cook's spoons to each waffle. If mixture 
appears too thick, add more milk. 

NORFOLK WAFFLES 

1 }4 cups boiling water 3 J^ teaspoons baking powder 

J^ cup corn meal 1 14 teaspoons salt 

1 }4 cups milk 3 eggs 

3 cups flour 2 tablespoons butter 
3 tablespoons sugar 

PROCESS: Cook corn meal in water twenty min- 
utes; add milk and dry ingredients sifted together. 
When slightly cooled add yolks of eggs lightly beaten, 
butter and whites of eggs beaten until stiff. Cook in 
hot, well greased waffle iron. Serve immediately. 

SKIMMED MILK AND BUTTER SUBSTITUTE MAY BE USED IN ALL 
RECIPES EXCEPT THOSE CALLING FOR CREAM. 

36 



GRAITOLATED HOMINY CRUSTS 

1 cup boiled granulated hominy 1 egg 

2 tablespoons sugar Flour, salt and milk 

PROCESS: Cook the hominy in double boiler, in 
milk enough to make a thin batter and until the 
hominy is very soft. Add salt to taste and when luke- 
warm egg well beaten and sufficient flour to hold mixture 
together. Spread in well buttered, shallow pan to one- 
third inch thickness. Bake in hot oven. Split and 
serve with butter and maple syrup. 

SAVORY HOMINY 
Serve with Roast Goose, Ducks and Pork 

To two cups of hot steamed or boiled hominy well 
seasoned with salt add one-third cup of butter or butter- 
ine, one-fourth cup finely chopped white onions and one 
and one-half tablespoons finely chopped parsley. Mix 
thoroughly. If too dry moisten with a little hot con- 
densed milk or cream. Serve in place of potatoes with 
roast goose, ducks or pork. This mixture may be used 
for stufi^g goose or domestic ducks. 

HOMINY CROQUETTES 

Shape into balls one quart of well cooked, highly 
seasoned granulated hominy. Roll in cracker crumbs, 
dip in egg, slightly beaten and diluted with two table- 
spoons cold water, then eigain in cracker crumbs. Fry 
in deep fat. Drain on brown paper and serve as a vege- 
table with Cheese Sauce; or sweeten the mixture to 
taste, flavor with grated lemon peel, shape, crumb and 
fry; serve as dessert with maple syrup. 

SKIMMED MttK AND BUTTER SUBSTITUTE MAY BE USED Ilf ALL 
RECIPES EXCEPT THOSE CAIimG FOR CREAM. 

37 



HOMINY AND HORSE-RADISH CROQUETTES 

Ji cup granulated hominy 2 tablespoons butter or butter 

J^ cup boiling water substitute 

a teaspoon salt 3 J^ tablespoons grated horse- 

Ji cup scalded milk radish 

1 tablespoon grated onion or 
chopped chives 

PROCESS: Cook hominy with water in a double 
boiler until water is absorbed; add salt and milk and 
continue cooking until hominy is soft. Add butter, 
horse-radish and onion. Spread mixture on a plate. 
When cool, shape in balls, roll in crumbs, egg and crumbs 
and fry in deep, hot fat. Drain on brown paper and serve 
with roast pork, baked ham, pork tenderloin, etc. 



HOMINY BALLS 
(Serve as a Vegetable) 

1 quart boiled granulated hominy yi tablespoon grated onion 
J4 cup grated cheese 1 teaspoon finely chopped 

Egg and crumbs parsley 

PROCESS: Add cheese, onion and parsley to hot, 
well seasoned hominy, cool and shape into balls the size 
of a small lemon, roll in fine crumbs, egg and crumbs 
and fry in deep hot fat. Drain on soft, brown paper and 
serve with roast pork, lamb, etc. 



SKIMMED MILK AND BUTTER SUBSTITUTE MAY BE USED IN ALL 
RECIPES EXCEPT THOSE CALLING FOR CREAM. 

38 



HOMINY WITH TOMATOES 

2 cups canned hulled corn or 2 tablespoons flour 

cooked pearl hominy J^ teaspoon salt 

1 cup thick tomato pulp J^ teaspoon pepper 

2 tablespoons bacon fat or butter Fine buttered cracker crumbs 

PROCESS: Melt fat in a sauce-pan, add flour and 
stir until well blended; add strained tomato pulp, salt 
and pepper. Add hulled corn mixed well and turn into 
a buttered baking dish. Cover with prepared cracker 
crumbs and bake thirty minutes in a hot oven. One tea- 
spoon of onion juice may be added to the tomato mixture 
before combining with com. Serve in place of potatoes. 



PEARL HOMINY WITH MINCED HAM 

2 cups boiled or steamed hominy 1 cup skimmed milk 
}^ cup finely minced left-over 14 teaspoon salt 

ham 14 teaspoon pepper 

2 tablespoons ham fat ]4 tablespoon finely chopped 

1 yi tablespoons flour parsley 

Paprika 

PROCESS : Cook pearl hominy as directed on Page 
13. Measure the left-over hominy and mix thoroughly 
with minced ham. Prepare a white sauce with remaining 
ingredients (except paprika). Add hominy mixture, 
place on range and bring to boiling point; stir until 
heated through; then turn into a warm serving dish and 
sprinkle with paprika. Serve at breakfast, luncheon or 
supper. 



SKIMMED MILK AND BUTTER SUBSTITUTE MAT BE USED IS ALL 
RECIPES EXCEPT THOSE CALLING FOR CREAM. 

39 



SAMP AU GRATIN 

Blanch one cup of Baltimore samp in boiling water 
ten minutes, drain and cover with fresh boiling water. 
Heat to the boiling point and cook fifteen minutes, 
stirring occasionally. Cover and place vessel on a thick 
asbestos mat and continue cooking very slowly until 
samp is soft; from eight to ten hours. (This may be 
cooked over night in a fireless cooker.) Make a White 
Sauce No. 2, adding one-fourth teaspoon paprika and 
one tablespoon finely chopped chives or grated onion to 
sauce. To the sauce add one and one-half cup of the 
prepared samp and two-thirds cup of grated cheese. 
Turn mixture into a buttered baking dish and sprinkle 
top thickly with buttered and seasoned cracker crumbs. 
Bake in the oven until mixture is heated throughout 
and crumbs are browned. Serve as main dish at luncheon 
or supper or it may supply a shortage in meat at dinner. 



HOMINY PUFF 

1 cup cold boiled hominy 2 eggs 

1 cup white corn meal 1 teaspoon salt 

2 tablespoons butter or 1 tablespoon baking powder 
butterine 1 J^ cups milk 

PROCESS: Mix hominy with corn meal, then sift 
in salt and baking powder. Add yolks of eggs beaten 
until thick and lemon tinted and melted butter. Add 
milk gradually while stirring constantly, then fold in 
the stiffly beaten whites of eggs. Turn mixture into a 
well greased baking dish and bake slowly for one-half 
hour. Serve with roast pork, lamb or beef. 



SKIMMED MILK AND BUTTER SXJBSTITUTE MAY BE USED IN ALL 
RECIPES EXCEPT THOSE CALLING FOR CREAM. 

40 



HOMINY BOULETTES 

3 cups water yi teaspoon white pepper 

1 teaspoon salt i4 teaspoon finely chopped 

% cup granulated hominy parsley 

1 teaspoon onion juice }4 teaspoon Poultry Seasoning 

1 tablespoon melted butter 

PROCESS : Put water in top vessel of double boiler, 
bring to boiling point, season with salt and add hominy 
slowly so as not to stop water from boiling, stirring con- 
stantly. Cook over a low fire five minutes, continue 
stirring. Remove to lower part of boiler and cook over 
boiling water three hours or longer. Remove from range, 
add seasonings in the order given, mix thoroughly; 
spread on a plate to cool. Then with the hands shape in 
balls the size of an egg, roll in fine cracker crumbs, then 
in egg (diluted with two tablespoons cold water), again 
in crumbs and fry in deep, hot fat. Serve in place of 
potatoes. 

TfflN WHITE SAUCE 

2 tablespoons butter Ji teaspoon salt 

1 H tablespoons flour Few grains pepper 

1 cup hot milk 

PROCESS: Melt the butter in a saucepan; add 
flour mixed with the seasonings; let cook one minute; 
stir to a smooth paste. Then add milk gradually and 
beat with gem whip until smooth and glossy. 



SKIMMED MILK AND BUTTER SUBSTITUTE MAY BE USED IN ALL 
RECIPES EXCEPT THOSE CALLING FOR CREAM. 

41 



GNOCCHI A LA ROMAINE 

3 tablespoons corn meal 2 tablespoons butter or 

M cup cornstarch butter substitute 

y^ teaspoon salt Yolks 2 eggs 

i4 teaspoon paprika Ji cup grated cheese 

2 cups milk Few grains cayenne and salt 

PROCESS: Mix corn meal, corn-starch, salt and 
paprika. Add enough of the milk to make of a smooth 
consistency. Scald remaining milk in a double boiler; 
then stir in the first mixture slowly, beating constantly 
until mixture thickens. Cover and cook two hours, 
stirring occasionally. Remove from range. Cream but- 
ter, add egg yolks slightly beaten; add to cooked mixture 
and beat thoroughly. Stir in cheese and return to range 
and continue cooking until cheese is melted and mixture 
is puffed slightly. Turn into a buttered pan to the depth 
of one inch. Chill. Cut into squares and arrange in a 
shallow baking dish. Sprinkle with grated cheese, 
seasoned with cayenne and salt. Place in a moderate 
oven until heated through and cheese is melted. 

CASSEROLE OF HOMINY WITH MEAT 

Finely chop cooked pearl hominy and slightly moisten 
with a little White Sauce. Line a quart brick-shaped 
mold or bread pan to the depth of one inch thickness 
with the prepared hominy, leaving a cavity in the center. 
Mince any kind of left-over meat or fowl; there should 
be one cup. Moisten meat with a little Brown Sauce, 
White Sauce or Tomato Sauce. Fill cavity with meat 
and cover with more hominy. Cover mold or if a bread 
pan is used cover with a buttered paper. Cook in a 
steamer thirty-five minutes. Unmold on warm serving 
platter and pour around Brown or Tomato Sauce. 

SKIMMED MILK AND BUTTER SUBSTrrUTE MAY BE USED IH ALL 
RECIPES EXCEPT THOSE CALLING FOR CREAM. 

42 



GNOCCm AU GRATIN 

1 }4 cups fine hominy or corn meal 1 cup grated cheese 

1 cup milk 1^ cup cracker crumbs 

1 }4 tablespoons butter 3 tablespoons melted butter 

Thin white sauce (about 1 }4 cups) H teaspoon' salt 

Few grains cayenne 

PROCESS: Scald milk in double boiler, add butter 
and salt and sift in slowly the hominy or corn meal, 
stirring constantly. Cook until mixture becomes a stiff 
paste. Mold mixture into quennelles with two teaspoons, 
poach these in simmering chicken stock or boiling, 
salted water. Drain and arrange them in a shallow 
baking dish in a layer, cover with white sauce and a thin 
layer of grated cheese, a few grains cayenne. Continue 
with layers until all materials are used, having a thin 
layer of sauce and cheese on top. Butter the cracker 
crumbs and sprinkle over top. Bake in hot oven fifteen 
minutes. Bechamel Sauce may be used in place of 
white sauce, making this dish still more delicious. 



HOMINY CRUSTS 

1 cup cooked fine hominy 1 egg well beaten 

2 tablespoons sugar Flour, salt and milk 

PROCESS : Cook hominy in double boiler in enough 
milk to make a thin batter and until hominy is soft. 
Season with salt and when lukewarm add egg beaten 
until thick and lemon tinted and sufiScient white flour 
to hold mixture together. Spread in a well greased, 
shallow pan to one-half inch thickness. Bake in a hot 
oven until brown and crisp. Split and spread with butter. 
Serve with maple syrup. 



SKIMMED MILE AND BUTTER SUBSTITUTE MAY BE USED IN ALL 
RECIPES EXCEPT THOSE CALLING FOR CREAM. 

43 



BECHAMEL SAUCE 

4 tablespoons butter 1 cup highly seasoned chicken 

4 tablespoons flour stock 

Salt and pepper 1 cup hot cream 

Nutmeg 

PROCESS: Melt butter in saucepan; add flour; 
stir to a smooth paste. Cook one minute. Add stock, 
beating constantly; add cream and a slight grating of 
nutmeg. Beat. 

TOMATO SAUCE 

4 tablespoons butter Bit of bay leaf 

5 }^ tablespoons flour Sprig of parsley 
1 \/i cups brown stock 4 cloves 

1 Ji cups stewed and strained Ji teaspoon salt 

tomatoes \i teaspoon pepper 

1 slice carrot Few grains cayenne 
1 slice onion 

PROCESS: Brown butter in saucepan; add flour; 
stir to a smooth paste and continue browning. Add 
seasonings, pour on gradually, brown stock, stirring 
constantly. Add tomato pulp, stir briskly and let simmer 
fifteen minutes. Strain and serve. 



SKEMMED Mn,E AND BUTTER SUBSTITUTE MAY BE USED IN ALL 
RECIPES EXCEPT THOSE CALLING FOR CREAM. 

44 



CHEESE SAUCE 

2 tablespoons butter }4 teaspoon white pepper 

1 yi tablespoons flour Few grains cayenne 

1 cup scalded milk 5^ cup cheese cut in small 

14 teaspoon salt pieces 

PROCESS: Melt butter in a saucepan; add flour 
mixed with scEisonings. Stir to a smooth paste. Add 
milk gradually, stirring constantly until smooth and 
glossy. Add cheese when melted; pour over hot hulled 
corn or serve with hominy croquettes. 



SUBSTITUTES TO USE FOR 
"BUTTERING" CRUMBS 

Prepare the crumbs in the usual way i. e., by grating, 
rolling as in the case of crackers or rubbing "fresh" 
stale bread crumbs through a wire croquette basket or 
passing stale bread through a meat chopper. For fine 
crumbs, sifting the crumbs should follow the first part 
of the process. To one cup of prepared crumbs, melt 
four tablespoons of oleomargarine, strained bacon fat 
or sausage fat. Add crumbs and stir until well blended. 
The two latter fats will impart a savory flavor to all such 
meat and vegetable mixtures as are made up into cro- 
quettes, also to many of the au gratin dishes. Try them. 



SKIMMED MILK AND BUTTER SUBSTITUTE MAY BE USED IN ALL 
RECIPES EXCEPT THOSE CALLING FOR CREAM. 

45 



CHAPTER III. 



QUICK WAR BREAD 

1 J^ cups stale bread crumbs 2 cups corn meal 

3 M cups cold water 2 }4 cups rye meal 

Ji cup molasses 1 tablespoon soda 

a tablespoon salt M cup shredded raisins 

PROCESS : Soak bread crumbs in two cups of water 
over night. In tihe morning rub through a colander, 
(without draining) add molasses and dry ingredients 
sifted together, mix with raiisins, add remaining water 
and beat thoroughly. Turn into well buttered, brown 
bread molds, filling them two-thirds full. Adjust 
covers and tie on securely. Steam two hours. 



BOSTON BROWN BREAD 

1 cup corn meal 1 teaspoon salt 

1 cup rye meal % cup N. O. molasses 

1 cup Graham flour 2 cups sour milk or 1 J^ cups 

2 14 teaspoons soda of sweet milk or water 

PROCESS: Sift together the dry ingredients, add 
the molasses and gradually milk, beat thoroughly, turn 
i^to well buttered molds ajnd steam three and one-half 
hours. The covers should be buttered before placing 
them on molds and tied down with a string if they do 
not lock. Remove covers and set molds in oven to dry 
off top of loaves. 



S KTM1VrF ,D MILE AND BUTTER SUBSTITUTE MAY BE USED Df ALL 
RECIPES EXCEPT THOSE CALLING FOR CREAM. 

46 



BOSTON BROWN BREAD WITH FRUIT 

Follow recipe for Boston Brown Bread, adding three- 
fourths cup seeded and shredded raisins, add these to 
the dry ingredients, then continue as in foregoing recipe. 

STEAMED BROWN BREAD 

2 li cups com meal 2 }4 cups graham flour 

1 teaspoon salt 1 cup molasses 

J^ tablespoon aoda 2 }4 cups rich sour milk 

PROCESS: Sift together the first three ingredients; 
add unsifted graham flour. Add molasses to sour milk 
and stir into first mixture. Mix well and beat two min- 
utes. Turn mixture into well buttered brown bread 
molds to two-thirds their depth and steam three and one- 
hali hours. The water must continue to boil throughout 
the entire period of steaming. This mixture may be 
baked in a well buttered, small iron bread pan. 



STEAMED CORN MEAL 
(Raisin or Date Bread) 

1 J^ cups corn meal 1 teaspoon salt 

1 cup rye medl H cup molasses 

a cup flour 1 cup water 

1 14 teaspoons soda 1 cup dates stoned and cut in 

1 cup milk small pieces or seeded raisins 

cut in hcdves 

PROCESS: Sift together the dry ingredients; add 
dates or raisins, then add molasses, water and milk 
gradually while stirring constantly until well mixed. 
Turn into well greased, brown bread molds to two- 
thirds their depth and steam three hours. 



SKEMMED MtLK AND BUTTER SUBSTITUTE MAY BE USED IN ALL 
RECIPES EXCEPT THOSE CALLING FOR CREAM. 

47 



JOLLY JOE 

2 cups corn meal 2 cups sour milk 

2 cups flour 2 H teaspoons soda 

1 teaspoon salt 2 tablespoons hot water 
1 cup N. O. molasses 

PROCESS: Sift together com meal, flour and salt; 
add molasses and sour milk, beat thoroughly, then add 
soda dissolved in hot water. Turn into a well buttered 
mold, adjust cover, tie securely and steam three to four 
hours. Two-thirds cup of seeded and shredded raisins 
may be added to this mixture if fruit brown bread is liked. 



CORN MEAL DATE BREAD 
(Quick Bread) 

^ cup corn meal ^ cup molasses 

Ji cup white flour 1 cup dates stoned and cut in 
1 cup graham flour pieces 

J4 tablespoon salt J^ cup English walnut meats 
1 ?i tablespoon baking powder broken in pieces 

K teaspoon soda Grated rind )^ lemon 

1 egg well beaten 1 tablespoon melted lard 

1 }i cups skimmed milk 

PROCESS: Sift together the dry ingredients. Add 
the dates and walnut meats. Add molasses, shortening 
and milk gradually, stirring constantly. Add egg beaten 
until thick and lemon tinted and grated lemon rind. 
Beat until ingredients are well blended. Turn into a 
well greased, brick-shaped bread pan, cover. Let stand 
twenty minutes. Bake in a "bread oven" fifty minutes. 



SKIMMED Mn,K AHD BUTTER SUBSTITUTE MAY BE USED IN ALL 
RECIPES EXCEPT THOSE CALLING FOR CREAM. 

48 



FfilED CORN MEAL MUFFINS 

1 cup corn meal J^ cup flour 

2 cups scalded milk 1 tablespoon sugar 
2 eggs unbeaten 1 teaspoon salt 

1 tablespoon bacon fat 

PROCESS: Pour scalded milk over corn meal; mix 
well and let stand until cold. Add eggs one at a time and 
stir thoroughly between each addition. Sift together 
flour, sugar and salt. Add to first mixture and beat one 
minute. Drop by tablespoonfuls into deep, hot fat, fry 
and turn as doughnuts until well browned. The fat 
should not be too hot when muffins are dropped in ; after 
the first two minutes increase the heat and finish frying. 
Drain on brown paper; split, butter and serve at once. 



INDIAN MEAL AND RYE MEAL BREAD 

4 cups corn meal yi cup molasses 

Boiling water )4 teaspoon soda 

2 cups rye meal or flour 14 yeast-cake dissolved in 

1 tablespoon salt J^ cup lukewarm water 

Warm water 

PROCESS: Pour boiling water over corn meal and 
rye meal mixed together, to moisten but not to form a 
batter, stirring constantly. Add molasses, salt and soda 
sifted together. When mixture is lukewarm add dis- 
solved yeast-cake and stir until well blended; then add 
enough lukewarm water to make a batter as stiff as can 
be beaten; cover; set in a warm place to rise over night. 
In the morning turn into a well greased, deep, agate pan; 
smooth the top with the hand dipped in water, cover and 
set to rise for half an hour. Bake in a slow oven two and 
one-half hours; cover the first hour of baking with a 

SKIMMED Mn,K AND BUTTER SUBSTITUTE MAY BE USED IN ALL 
RECIPES EXCEPT THOSE CALLING FOR CREAM. 

49 



greased paper to prevent baking too hard on top before 
baking through. This bread was originally baked in an 
iron pot with a cover (what is now called a Dutch oven). 
It was one of the breads of our forefathers and is delicious. 
Try it. 

INDIAN MEAL BREAD 
(With Yeast) 
1 cup corn meal 2 tablespoons sugar 

1 cup scalded milk 1 tablespoon salt 

1 cup boiling water }4 yeast-cake dissolved in H 

2 tablespoons shortening cup lukewarm water 
Rye or white flour 

PROCESS : Put corn meal into a mixing bowl, pour 
over scalded milk mixed with boiling water; add shorten- 
ing, sugar and salt. When mixture is lukewarm add 
dissolved yeast-cake and flour enough to make a stiff 
dough (from five to six cups). Knead until smooth and 
elastic. Cover and set in a warm place (out of a draft) 
over night. In the morning turn on a floured board, 
knead slightly and shape into loaves, let rise. Bake one 
hour. 

RAISED BROWN BREAD NO. 2 
2 cups boiling water 2 cups rye meal or flour 

2 cups corn meal J4 cup brown sugar or molasses 

}4 yeast cake dissolved in }^ 2 teaspoons salt 

cup lukewarm water yi teaspoon soda 

PROCESS: Pour boiling water over corn meal. 
When lukewarm add yeast-cake dissolved in half cup 
lukewarm water; add remaining ingredients in the order 
given. Beat thoroughly, cover closely and set in a warm 
place to rise over night. In the morning beat, pour into 
buttered bread pans and bake in a moderate oven from 
one and one-half to two hours. This bread is best baked 
in an iron brown-bread pan or a bowl-shaped crock. 

SKIMMED MILK AND BUTTER SUBSTITUTE MAY BE USED IN ALL 
RECIPES EXCEPT THOSE CALLING FOR CREAM. 

50 



CORN MEAL AND GRAHAM BREAD 

1 cup corn meal 1 tablespoon salt 

1 cup boiling water Ji cup brown sugar or molasses 

1 cup scalded milk J^ compressed yeast cake 

2 tablespoons lard J^ cup lukewarm water 
Graham flour 

PROCESS: Pour boiling water over corn meal; 
stir until well mixed, add milk and lard ; when lukewarm 
add salt, molasses and yeast-cake, dissolved in luke- 
warm water. Add about four cups of graham flour, a 
little more may be needed, beat thoroughly, cover, set 
to rise in a warm place until double in bulk ; stir down and 
beat again. Turn into well greased brick-shaped bread 
pans, cover and again set to rise. When light bake one 
hour, having the initial heat greatest for the first fifteen 
minutes. 

RAISED CORN MUFFINS 

1 cup scalded milk yi compressed yeast cake dis- 
J4 cup lard solved in J^ cup lukewarm 
Ji cup sugar water 

2 teaspoons salt 1 ]4, cups corn meal 

1 yi cups flour 

PROCESS: To scalded milk add shortening, sugar 
and salt. When lukewarm add dissolved yeast-cake, 
corn meal and flour, beat vigorously and fill to half their 
depth, warm well greased iron gem cups. Let rise to 
double their bulk, then bake thirty minutes in a hot oven. 



SKIMMED MILK AND BUTTER SUBSTITUTE MAY BE USED IN ALL 
RECIPES EXCEPT THOSE CALLING FOR CREAM. 

61 



RAISED CORN FLOUR PARKER HOUSE ROLLS 

1 % cups corn flour 1 cup white flour 

2 yi cups scalded milk 14 cup shortening 

1 yeast cake dissolved in }4 2 tablespoons sugar 

cup lukewarm water 1 tablespoon salt 

White 1 egg 

PROCESS: Pour scalded milk slowly over corn 
flour, stirring constantly, cover and let stand until luke- 
warm; add dissolved yeast-cake and gradually one cup 
white flour stirring constantly until sponge is smooth. 
Cover, set in a warm place until light, foamy and full of 
bubbles. Add remaining ingredients (except egg white). 
Beat vigorously then add white of egg beaten until stiff. 
Add sufficient white flour to handle. Knead until smooth 
and elastic. Cover and set to rise. When double in bulk 
turn on a floured board, knead slightly and roll into a 
sheet one-half inch in thickness; brush over lightly with 
melted butter, shape with biscuit cutter, make a crease 
across each round with the floured handle of a small 
wooden spoon; fold, press edges lightly and bake in a 
hot oven twenty-five minutes. Corn flour is finely 
bolted corn meal and should be used for all raised corn 
mixtures and sweet cakes, cookies, etc., made from com 
products. 



SKIMMED Mn,K AND BUTTER SUBSTITUTE MAY BE USED JS ALL 
RECIPES EXCEPT THOSE CALLING FOR CREAM. 

62 



SOUTH CAROLINA SPOON CORN BREAD 

2 cups fine hominy 2 cups milk 

6 cups boiling salted water 2 cups corn meal 

2 tablespoons strained bacon fat Salt 

3 eggs Milk 

PROCESS: Add hominy slowly to boiling salted 
water until mixture thickens; then cook over boiling 
water until soft (about one hour). Remove from range 
and while hot add bacon fat, eggs beaten until thick and 
lemon tinted; add milk and slowly corn meal ; add salt 
if necessary. The mixture should be the consistency of 
boiled custard. If too thick and dry add more milk. 
Turn into a well buttered baking dish and cook in the 
oven until mixture is firm. Serve at once in the dish in 
which it was baked. 



SOUTHERN CORN BREAD 

1 yi cups cold cooked rice or 1 teaspoon salt 

granulated hominy }^ cup butter 

2 cups milk 2 eggs 
1 cup corn meal 

PROCESS: Scald two-thirds of the milk in a double 
boiler; then stir in the rice or hominy, pour over dry 
corn meal, butter and salt, blend well. Add eggs well 
beaten and remainder of milk. The batter must be very 
thin. Bake immediately in shallow, well buttered tins 
in a quick oven. 



SKIMMED MILK AND BUTTER SUBSTITUTE MAY BE USED IN ALL 
RECIPES EXCEPT THOSE CALLING FOR CREAM. 

53 



CREAM CORN BREAD 

^ cup corn meal 1 teaspoon salt 

1 cup white flour 1 cup thick cream 

4 teaspoons baking powder 2 eggs 

4 tablespoons sugar 1 teaspqon butter or other fat 

PROCESS: Mix and sift the dry ingredients, add 
cream gradually stirring constantly, add melted shorten- 
ing and eggs beaten until thick and lemon tinted. Pour 
mixture into a well greased, shallow pan and bake 
twenty-five minutes in a hot oven. If not brown on top, 
place some distance from the gas flame in the broiling 
oven until delicately browned. Care should be taken 
that cake does not burn during the browning process. 



CORN BREAD 
(New Orleans Recipe) 

2 cups white corn meal 2 tablespoons melted butter 

Ji cup flour 2 cups sour milk 

\i cup molasses or sugar 1 teaspoon soda 

1 teaspoon salt 2 eggs 

PROCESS: Sift together corn meal, flour and salt, 
add molasses and butter, and gradually sour milk while 
stirring constantly; add eggs beaten very light, then 
soda dissolved in two tablespoons hot water. Beat mix- 
ture thoroughly; bake slowly forty-five minutes in a 
well greased, shallow pan. 



SKIMMED Mn,K AND BUTTER SUBSTITUTE MAY BE USED IN ALL 
EECIPES EXCEPT THOSE CALLING FOR CREAM. 

64 



SWEET CORN BREAD 

1 % cups flour 1 teaspoon salt 

Ji cup corn meal 2 eggs 

}i cup melted butter 1 cup milk 

H cup sugar 4 teaspoons baking powder 

PROCESS: Sift together flour, corn meal, salt and 
baking powder. Add sugar and melted butter; add milk 
gradually while stirring constantly. Beat the eggs 
until thick and lemon tinted; then fold carefully into 
first mixture. Turn into well buttered, shallow pan; 
bake twenty-five minutes in a hot oven. This mixture 
may be baked in hissing hot iron gem cups. 



OLD FASHION CORN BREAD 
(Southern Recipe) 

1 Ji cups corn meal (hand ground) 2 tablespoons lard 

1 cup white flour 1 egg 

1 teaspoon salt 2 cups sour milk 

2 tablespoons sugar 1 teaspoon soda 

PROCESS: Mix thoroughly corn meal, flour, salt 
and sugar. Rub in lard with tips of fingers. Add egg 
unbeaten and one and one-half cups sour milk; dissolve 
soda in remaining half cup of milk and stir mixture until 
ingredients are well blended ; then beat (with the hand) 
six minutes. Turn into a well greased, shallow agate pan 
and bake thirty minutes in a fairly hot oven. Brown 
under the gas flame in broiling oven. This corn meal is 
coarse and should not be sifted. It is ground in a hand 
mill and contains all the good of the kernels. 



SKIMMED MILK AHD BUTTER SUBSTITUTE MAY BE USED IN ALL 
RECIPES EXCEPT THOSE CALLmG FOR CREAM. 

55 



CRACKLING CORN BREAD 

2 cups scalded. milk 2 teaspoons salt 

1 cup corn meal 1 cup cracklings 

PROCESS: Pour scalded milk gradually over corn 
meal mixed with salt, stirring constantly; add crack- 
lings and mix thoroughly. Turn into a well greased, 
shallow pan to the depth of one-half inch. Bake in a 
moderate oven until crisp and brown. Split and spread 
with butter. Serve hot. Cracklings are the residue 
from the trying out of lard. They are extensively used 
as food by the colored people of the South and by the 
Mexicans. Cracklings serve the purpose of shortening 
and as such have quite a food value. The prejudice 
against their use is chiefly because of their cheapness, as 
well as the erroneous idea that prevails among the 
people of the North especially, that " cracklings is refuse." 

KNOXVILLE CORN BREAD 

1 }i cups yellow corn meal J^ teaspoon salt 

}i cup flour 4 tablespoons sugar 

1 cup rich sour milk 2 cups sweet milk 

% teaspoon soda (generous) 2 eggs 
1 i4 tablespoons butter 

PROCESS: Sift together corn meal and flour. Add 
to sour milk soda, salt, sugar and eggs beaten until thick 
and lemon tinted and one cup of sweet milk. Add to 
corn meal slowly while stirring constantly. Melt butter 
in a No. 8 cast iron spider; tiirn in mixture, then slowly 
pour over remaining cup sweet milk. Bake in a hot oven 
thirty-five minutes. Reduce heat, if browning too fast. 
Cut like a pie and serve hot with butter and jam or maple 
syrup. This is a most delicious corn bread and is known 
in Knoxville as MoUie White's com bread. Mollie 
White was a "famed" colored cook of that city. 

SKIMMED Mn,K AND BUTTER SUBSTITUTE MAY BE USED IN ALL 
RECIPES EXCEPT THOSE CALLING FOR CREAM. 

56 



SPIDER CORN CAKE 

9i cup corn meal % cup sweet milk • 

a cup flour 1 egg well beaten 

2 tablespoons sugar J^ cup sour milk 

1 teaspoon salt 2 tablespoons melted butter 

1 teaspoon soda J^ cup sweet milk 

PROCESS : Sift together corn meal, flour, sugar, salt 
and soda. Add half cup sweet milk and egg well beaten. 
Add sour milk and butter. Mix thoroughly and pour 
into well buttered hot spider. Pour half cup sweet milk 
carefully over the top of corn cake. Cook ten minutes 
on top of range and twenty minutes in the oven. 



ALABAMA PUMPKIN CORN BREAD 

1 H cups corn meal 1 tablespoon hot water 

J4 cup graham flour 2 cups canned pumpkin 

1 teaspoon salt }4 teaspoon soda 

3 teaspoons baking powder 1 egg 

a cup soft brown sugar 1 cup milk 

PROCESS: Sift together corn meal, salt, baking 
powder; add graham flour unsifted. Add sugar and hot 
water to pumpkin, sift in soda and add egg beaten until 
thick and lemon tinted. Add pumpkin mixture to dry 
ingredients and beat until thoroughly blended, add milk 
and continue beating. Turn into a buttered, shallow 
pan and bake thirty minutes in a hot oven. This is an 
old southern recipe and when made by the "old colored 
mammy" who originated the bread she "cooked down" 
her own pumpkin and used white flour instead of graham 
flour. 



SKIMMED MILK AND BUTTER SUBSTITUTE MAY BE USED IN ALL 
RECIPES EXCEPT THOSE CALLING FOR CREAM. 

57 



WHITE CORN MEAL BREAD 

4 tablespoons butter 1 M cups flour 

a cup sugar 4 teaspoons baking powder 

1 yi cups milk 1 teaspoon salt 

1 yi cups white corn meal Whites 3 eggs 

PROCESS: Cream the butter, add the sugar 
gradually, sift the dry ingredients together twice and add 
to first mixture alternately with milk. Beat whites of 
eggs until stiff; cut and fold them into mixture. Bake in 
shallow, buttered pan twenty-five minutes. 

MOLASSES CORN BREAD 

1 cup corn meal M cup molasses 

% cup flour % cup skimmed milk 

1 a tablespoons baking powder 1 egg 

1 teaspoon salt 2 tablespoons sausage or bacon 

fat 

PROCESS: Sift together dry ingredients; add 
molasses and milk mixed together, stirring constantly. 
Beat egg until thick and lemon tinted add to first 
mixture. Add fat and beat two minutes. Bake in a well 
greased, shallow pan in a hot oven twenty-five minutes. 

THIN CORN BREAD 

% cup yellow corn meal % teaspoon salt 

1 a cups flour 1 cup thin cream 

2 tablespoons sugar 1 egg well beaten 

5 teaspoons baking powder 2 tablespoons melted butter 

PROCESS: Mix and sift the dry ingredients; add 
cream, beaten egg and butter, beat thoroughly; bake 
in a well greased, shallow pan, in a hot oven, twenty-five 
minutes; five minutes before removing from oven brush 
over with milk to give it a richer color. Serve with baked 
or broiled fish. 



SKIMMED Mn,K AND BUTTER SUBSTITUTE MAY BE USED IN ALL 
RECIPES EXCEPT THOSE CALLING FOR CREAM. 

58 



EGOLESS CORN BREAD NO. 1 

H cup corn meal Ji teaspoon salt 

54 cup flour % teaspoon soda 

2 tablespoons sugar 1 J^ cups sour milk 

1 yi tablespoons bacon or sausage fat 

PROCESS: Sift together the first five ingredients; 
add sour milk slowly, stirring constantly until batter is 
smooth. Add bacon fat, beat one minute, then turn into 
a well greased, square, shallow pan eight inches square 
and bake in a hot oven twenty-five minutes. Brown over 
top by placing pan in broiling oven under gas flame. 
Broiler should be placed on bottom of oven. 



EGOLESS CORN BREAD NO. 2 

1 cup corn meal 1 teaspoon salt 
% cup flour 1 teaspoon soda 

2 tablespoons sugar 1 J^ cups sour milk or butter- 
2 tablespoons shortening milk 

PROCESS: Sift together the dry ingredients. Add 
milk gradually stirring constantly. Beat mixture one 
minute. Turn into a well greased, shallow pan and bake 
twenty-five minutes in a hot oven. If not brown on top 
place some distance from the gas flame in broiling oven 
for two minutes until evenly browned. 



SKIMMED MILE AND BUTTER SUBSTITUTE MAY BE USED IN ALL 
RECIPES EXCEPT THOSE CALLING FOR CREAM. 

69 



SPONGE CORN CAKE NO. 1 

}4 cup corn meal 2 egg yokes beaten very light 

1 cup flour 1 tablespoon melted butter 

yi teaspoon salt 1 cup rich sour milk 

}i teaspoon soda White 1 egg 
5 tablespoons sugar 

PROCESS: Sift the dry ingredients together, add 
butter, yolks well beaten and sour milk; lastly fold in 
the white of egg beaten until stiff. Bake in well greased, 
shallow pan in hot oven thirty minutes. 

SPONGE CAKE NO. 2 

1 cup corn meal 1 tablespoon melted butter 

yi cup flour 4 tablespoons sugar 

yi teaspoon salt 2 egg yolks 

}4 teaspoon soda 1 white of egg 

1 teaspoon cream tartar 1 H cups sweet milk 

PROCESS: Sift the dry ingredients together, add 
butter, egg yolks well beaten, and milk; mix well 
and lastly cut and fold in the white of egg beaten until 
stiff. Bake in well greased, brick-shaped bread pan, 
thirty minutes. 

OLD VIRGINIA BATTER BREAD 

2 cups corn meal i^ cup sugar 
4 cups scalded milk 3 eggs 

1 teaspoon salt 

PROCESS: Stir corn meal into scalded milk and 
cook to a mush, add salt and sugar, cool; add yolks 
of eggs beaten very light; then cut and fold in whites 
beaten until stiff, melt two tablespoons butter or lard 
in baking pan, turn in mixture and bake forty-five 
minutes in a bread oven (360 to 400 degrees F.). 

SKIMMED MILK AND BUTTER SUBSTITUTE MAY BE USED IN ALL 
RECIPES EXCEPT THOSE CALLING FOR CREAM. 

60 



CORN PONE 

To two cups corn meal (water milled) add one and 
one-half teaspoons salt and one tablespoon bacon fat 
or melted lard and sufficient scalded milk or equal parts 
of milk and boiling water to make a mixture that can be 
molded with the hands into oblong cakes six inches long, 
three inches wide and one inch thick in cienter; the pones 
should taper at the ends and a trifle thinner. Before 
molding, the mixture (when cool enough) should be 
thoroughly blended with the hand ; then shaped, placed 
on a hot, well greased tin baking sheet, brushed over 
with melted fat or milk and baked twenty-five minutes 
in a hot oven. When done, split each pone, spread with 
butter and lay a thin slice of broiled bacon between; 
fold again and serve immediately. 



MAMMY'S PUMPKIN PONE 

2 cups corn meal 1 teaspoon salt 

2 cups cooked and strained or }i cup sugar 

canned pumpkin 2 tablespoons sausage fat 

PROCESS: Mix ingredients in the order given. 
Beat vigorously until thoroughly blended, then slightly 
butter the hands and mold the mixture into pones almost 
an inch thick in the middle. Place on a well greased 
baking sheet and bake thirty minutes in a hot oven. 
Split, butter them, and serve at once. 



SKIMMED MILE AND BUTTER StTBSTITTJTE MAY BE USED IN ALL 
RECIPES EXCEPT THOSE CALLING FOR CREAM. 

61 



KENTUCKY SPOON CORN BREAD 

1 cup corn meal 1 teaspoon salt 

2 cups cold cooked rice 2 eggs well beaten 

1 tablespoon butter 1 teaspoon baking powder 

1 H cups milk 

PROCESS: Wet corn meal with boiling water and 
stir until the consistency of mush, add rice, butter and 
salt; let stand over night or several hours during the 
day. Then add eggs and milk; sift baking powder into 
mixture. Beat well and pour into a well buttered, 
shallow pudding dish; bake thirty-five minutes in a 
moderate oven. Dot over with small bits of butter when 
almost done. Serve with a spoon from dish in which it 
was baked. 



RICE AND CORN MEAL SPOON BREAD 

14 cup rice 3 eggs 

2 }4 cups boiling water % cup skimmed milk 

J^ teaspoon salt 1 1^ cups white corn meal 

3 tablespoons butter or 3 teaspoons baking powder 
butterine Cheese sauce 

PROCESS: Blanch rice; add to boiling water; add 
salt and cook five minutes, stirring constantly. Then 
cook in double boiler until rice is tender. Remove from 
range, add butter, eggs beaten until thick and lemon 
tinted; add milk gradually with corn meal sifted with 
baking powder. Beat mixture thoroughly and turn into a 
well greased baking dish and bake in a moderate oven 
forty-five minutes. Serve from the baking dish with a 
spoon. Cheese sauce may be served with this bread 
and will supply the needs of a Meatless Day for dinner. 



SKIMMED MILK AND BUTTER SUBSTITUTE MAY BE USED IN ALL 
RECIPES EXCEPT THOSE CALLING FOR CREAM. 

62 



VIRGINIA SPOON CORN BREAD 

J^ cup granulated cooked hominy 3 eggs 

1 teaspoon salt 1 ^ cups milk 

2 tablespoons lard 2 cups corn meal 

2 tablespoons butter 2 teaspoons baking powder 

PROCESS: Add shortening and salt to hot hominy, 
add corn meal sifted with baking powder, alternately 
with milk, mix well. Beat eggs until thick and lemon 
tinted; add to first mixture and beat vigorously. Pour 
into a well buttered pudding dish, bake in hot oven 
forty-five minutes. Serve in baking dish with spoon. 



CUSTARD CORN CAKE 

J^ cup corn meal 2 tablespoons sugar 

H cup bread flour 1 cup sour or buttermilk 

yi teaspoon salt 2 eggs 

yi teaspoon soda 2 tablespoons melted lard or 

Ji cup sweet milk butter 

PROCESS: Sift together corn meal, flour, salt, soda 
and sugar. Add sour milk, gradually stirring constantly; 
add eggs beaten until thick and lemon tinted, continue 
beating until thoroughly blended. Put melted shortening 
into a warm earthen baking dish (one quart capacity). 
Beat batter one minute and turn into dish, pouring the 
sweet milk over top. Bake twenty-five minutes in a hot 
oven. Cut as a pie and serve at once from the dish in 
which it was baked. 



SKIMMED MILK AND BtTTTER SUBSTITUTE MAY BE USED IH ALl 
RECIPES EXCEPT THOSE CALLING FOR CREAM. 

63 



APPLE JOHNNY CAKE 

2 cups white or yellow corn meal 4 teaspoons baking powder 

2 tablespoons sugar 1 % cups milk 

% teaspoon salt 3 sour apples 

1 teaspoon soda ]4 cup milk (extra) 

1 teaspoon cream of tartar or Cinnamon and sugar 

PROCESS: Sift together the first five ingredients 
in the order given; add milk gradually smd beat until 
batter is smooth. Pare, core and thinly slice apples; 
stir them into first mixture. Turn into a well buttered, 
shallow pan; spread evenly and pour over the extra 
half cup of cold milk. Sprinkle top with cinnamon and 
sugar. Bake thirty-five minutes in a hot oven. This 
cake is delicious if made with "water-milled" corn meal. 
Serve hot as a dessert with sweetened cream or with 
butter as corn bread. 



LUNCHEON JOHNNY CAKE 

Yolks 4 eggs 1 cup flour 

2 tablespoons butter 1 teaspoon salt 

2 cups milk (not skimmed) 2 tablespoons sugar 

2 cups corn meal 4 teaspoons baking powder 

Whites 4 eggs 

PROCESS: Beat yolks until thick and light; add 
milk gradually; stir into meal and flour sifted with salt, 
sugar and baking powder, beat thoroughly. Add butter 
and carefully fold in the whites of eggs beaten until stiff. 
Turn into a well greased, shallow pan and bake forty 
minutes in a moderate oven. Serve hot with maple 
syrup or orange marmalade for luncheon. With a glass 
of milk or a cup of cocoa the luncheon is complete. 



SKIMMED MILK AND BUTTER SUBSTITUTE MAY BE USED IN ALL 
HECIPES EXCEPT THOSE CALLIKO FOK CREAM. 

64 



BLUEBERRY CORN BREAD 

1 cup corn meal 14 teaspoon salt 

1 cup pastry flour 1 egg well beaten 

4 teaspoons baking powder % cup milk 

1 cup sugar J^ cup melted butter 

i4 cup blueberries dredged with a little of the flour 

PROCESS: Sift together the dry ingredients; add 
milk gradually and beaten egg. Add butter and berries. 
Bake in a well buttered, shallow pan or in well greased, 
hot iron muffin cups, twenty-five minutes in a hot oven. 
Serve hot as it is then at its best. 



CORN BREAD WITH CREAMED CLAMS 

1 quart fresh clams White corn bread 

2 cups white sauce (Recipe on Page s8) 
\i pound fat salt pork Butter 

PROCESS: Remove the tough portion from the 
clams and finely chop. Cut salt pork in one-fourth-inch 
dice; try out in a hot frying pan. Drain off some of the 
fat, leaving enough to prevent clams from sticking to 
bottom of pan ; add soft and chopped hard part of clams, 
stir until heated through; add white sauce and heat to 
boiling point. Remove at once from fire. Have ready 
a hot white corn bread made from recipe on Page 58. 
Cut corn bread in squares, split each square and spread 
half the squares with butter, cover with part of the clam 
mixture, set the other halves above and pour around or 
over remaining clam mixture. Serve very hot. 



SKIMMED MILK AOT) BUTTER SUBSTITUTE MAY BE USED IH ALL 
RECIPES EXCEPT THOSE CALLING FOR CREAM. 

65 



CHAPTER IV. 



BOILED GREEN CORN 

Remove the outer husks ; strip back the inner ones. Pick 
out all the silky threads, fold back the husks and cook 
corn in boiling, salted water from ten to twenty minutes, 
according to age of corn. Add salt last ten minutes of 
cooking. Drain well and serve on platter in napkin, 
folding the corners over the corn. 

GREEN CORN COOKED IN MILK 

Follow recipe for Boiled Green Corn, using equal 
parts of skimmed milk and water. Salt the milk and 
water five minutes before removing corn. Drain; 
serve in folded napkin. 

ROASTED GREEN CORN 

Remove the husks and all the silk from freshly 
gathered sweet corn, preferably Golden Bantam. Brush 
over lightly with melted butter or bacon fat. Arrange 
side by side on the broiler and place some distance from 
the flame in the broiling oven of the gas range. As the 
kernels brown, turn the ears until evenly browned all 
over. Brush again with butter, dredge lightly with salt 
and pepper and serve on a hot platter in the folds of a 
large napkin. 



SKIMMED MILK AND BUTTER SUBSTITUTE MAY BE USED IN ALL 
RECIPES EXCEPT THOSE CALLING POR CREAM. 

66 



TO SWEETEN GREEN CORN WHEN BOILING 

When boiling green corn on the cobs; to supply the 
natural sweetness lost by evaporation after being pulled 
from the stalk, add two tablespoons of sugar to the 
water in which the com is cooked and a luscious flavor 
will be developed. Salt should never be added to the 
water in which com is boiled as the salt has a tendency 
to darken and harden the kernels. 

STEAMED GREEN CORN ON THE COBS 

For steaming green com on the cobs; if possible have 
the com freshly gathered. Remove the outer husks, 
turn back the inner husks and pick off every thread of 
silk. Turn back the husks in their original place and 
arrange ears in a steamer. Place over a kettle of boiling 
water and steam fifteen minutes (twenty minutes if 
ears are large). Remove from steamer and quickly pull 
off the husks and arrange ears in a folded napkin on a 
warm serving platter. Serve at once. This is an ideal 
way of cooking green com as nothing is lost in the cooking 
process. 

CORN WITH CREAM 

Cut com from cob while hot. There should be two 
cups. Turn into saucepan and season with salt, pepper 
and one teaspoon sugar; add one and one-half table- 
spoons butter or strained bacon fat and three table- 
spoons cream; reheat and serve. When cutting com 
from cob do not cut so deep that portions of cob are 
cut off with com. The better way is to score the kernels 
lengthwise of the cob, then press out pulp with the back 
of a silver knife, leaving the hulls on the cob. 

SKIMMED MILK AND BUTTER SUBSTITUTE MAY BE USED IN ALL 
RECIPES EXCEPT THOSE CALLING FOR CREAM. 

67 



FRIED GREEN CORN 

Cut the corn from cob, using care that none of the 
cob is cut with it. Melt butter in a spider, add corn, 
separate the kernels and stir until corn is delicately 
browned; use as little butter as possible; strained bacon 
fat may be used instead of butter ; season with salt,pepper 
and a little rich cream. Do not allow mixture to boil 
after cream is added. Serve with chicken croquettes. 



STEWED GREEN CORN 

Cut the corn from one dozen ears of tender, green 
corn. Put the corn in a saucepan, add sufficient water 
to cover; bring to boiling point and cook twenty min- 
utes. There should be very little moisture left. Add 
one-half cup cream or top milk, one teaspoon sugar, 
one tablespoon butter and season with pepper and salt. 
For a change use equal parts of corn and tomatoes; 
season the same. Tomatoes should be peeled, cut in 
quarters and seeds scraped out. Cook until tender with 
the corn. 



SKIMMED MILK AND BUTTER SUBSTITUTE MAY BE USED IN ALL 
RECIPES EXCEPT THOSE CALLING FOR CREAM. 

68 



GREEN CORN CREOLE 

6 ears tender sweet green com 2 tomatoes peeled and finely 

1 tablespoon olive oil or melted chopped 

butter J^ teaspoon salt 

1 medium sized green pepper 1 teaspoon sugar 

finely chopped Ji teaspoon paprika 

1 medium sized onion finely 1 small clove garlic 

chopped 

PROCESS: Score each row of kernels lengthwise of 
the cobs. With the back of the knife press out pulp, 
leaving hulls on the cobs. Heat oil or butter in a sauce- 
pan, add pepper and onion; cook until delicately 
browned, stirring constantly. Add com pulp, mix 
thoroughly and cook eight minutes, stirring lightly 
meanwhile; add tomatoes and seasoning and continue 
cooking ten minutes. Thrust a small wooden skewer 
(tooth-pick) through a small clove of garlic, drop it 
into mixture and stir lightly until a delicate flavor is 
imparted to mixture. Remove garlic (the skewer will 
help to locate garlic). Turn into a hot serving dish and 
serve with roast veal, beef, pork or fried chicken. 

SUCCOTASH 

Cut hot, boiled com from the cob; there should be 
one cup; add equal quantity of hot, boiled lima beans, 
the latter cooked in boiling, salted water or white stock. 
Dot over with one or two tablespoons butter, season 
with salt and pepper. A tablespoon of top milk may be 
added to supply moisture. 



SKIMMED MILE AITD BUTTER SUBSTITUTE MAT BE USED IN AIX 
RECIPES EXCEPT THOSE CAIXIHG FOR CREAM. 

69 



SOUTHERN SUCCOTASH 

6 ears green corn }i pound salt pork 

2 cups green lima beans 1 tablespoon sugar 

Salt and pepper 

PROCESS: Cut the com carefully from the cob. 
Put the cobs into water to cover; let them boil twenty 
minutes. Remove the cobs and strain the liquor over 
the cut corn; add the b^ans and salt pork cut in half- 
inch cubes; add sugar and season with salt eind pepper. 
Let simmer slowly one hour until the moisture is evapor- 
ated to the desired consistency. In the south this dish 
resembles soup somewhat. It is more generally liked, 
however, served as a vegetable about the consistency of 
stewed corn ; two or three tablespoons of hot cream added 
just before serving is an addition to this dish. 



SUCCOTASH WITH TOMATOES 

1 cup cooked corn 1 small onion finely chopped 

1 cup cooked shelled beans 2 tablespoons butter 

4 tomatoes sliced }^ tablespoon sugar 

H green pepper finely chopped 1 teaspoon salt 

Few grains cayenne 

PROCESS : Melt butter in a saucepan, add chopped 
onion and pepper; cook without browning until soft, 
stirring constantly. Score the kernels lengthwise of 
the cobs of left-over com, then measure. Shell and cook 
the beans that have become ripe in boiling, salted water; 
drain; combine with corn; add sliced tomatoes, cooked 
onion and pepper. Add seasoning and sugar. Cook 
until tomato is soft and the mixture is slightly thickened. 
Serve hot with roast veal, beef or pork. 



SKIMMED MILK AND BUTTER SUBSTITUTE MAY BE USED IN ALL 
KECIPES EXCEPT THOSE CALLING FOR CREAM. 

70 



CORN A LA MEXICAN 

6 tomatoes Ji teaspoon salt 

2 tablespoons butter 2 cups hot green corn 

1 g^reen pepper finely chopped 1 tablespoon butter or cream 

1 small clove garlic or 1 teaspoon finely chopped onion 

PROCESS: Cut tomatoes in quarters, scrape out 
all the seeds. Melt butter in saucepan, add pepper and 
garlic; cook without browning, three minutes; add 
tomatoes and salt; cook five minutes; add com freshly 
boiled and cut from the cob; add a tablespoon of butter 
or cream and serve. Before chopping pepper, cover 
with boiling water, let stand one minute, then peel off 
the tissue-like skin covering it. Pimentos may be used 
when green peppers are not avsiilable. 



CORN SOUTHERN STYLE 

2 cups cooked corn or 1 can of }4 teaspoon pepper 

corn 1 teaspoon sugar 

2 eggs slightly beaten 1 H tablespoons melted butter 

1 teaspoon salt 2 cups scalded milk 

PROCESS: Mix the ingredients in the order given, 
turn mixture into a buttered pudding dish and bake until 
mixture is firm. Serve with fried chicken, roast veal, 
pork or beef. 



SKIMMED Mn.E AITO BXTTTER SUBSTITUTE MAT BE USED IN ALL 
HECIPES EXCEPT THOSE CALLING FOR CREAM. 

71 



SWEET CORN— NEW ENGLAND STYLE 

Finely chop one can of corn or two cups of green corn. 
Add three eggs slightly beaten, one-half tablespoon 
sugar, one teaspoon salt, one-eighth teaspoon pepper, 
one tablespoon melted butter and two cups scalded milk. 
Turn into a buttered baking dish or into individual 
ramekins and bake in a slow oven until solid or like 
custard. Serve in baking dish. 



SCALLOPED CORN 

1 small mild green pepper Few grains cayenne 

1 small onion finely chopped }^ cup milk 

2 tablespoons butter or butter 1 J^ cups canned corn 
substitute Yolk 1 egg 

2 tablespoons flour 1 }4 tablespoons butter or 

1 teaspoon salt bacon fat 

}i teaspoon paprika Ji cup tiny stale bread cubes 

% cup cracker crumbs 

PROCESS: Cut pepper in halves; remove seeds 
and veins; cut in narrow strips and strips in halves 
crosswise. Mix with onion and cook both with butter 
five minutes, stirring constantly. Sift together flour 
and seasonings; add to first mixture and stir until well 
blended; then add milk gradually, continue stirring. 
Bring to boiling point, add corn, yolk of egg slightly 
beaten. Brown bread cubes in remaining butter and 
add to mixture. Turn into a buttered baking dish, cover 
with buttered cracker crumbs and bake in a hot oven 
until heated through and crumbs are browned. 



SKIMMED MILK AND BUTTER SUBSTITUTE MAY BE USED IN ALL 
RECIPES EXCEPT THOSE CALLING FOR CREAM. 

72 



STEWED CORN AND TOMATOES 

Cut the corn from the cobs of six ears of tender, sweet 
green corn; scrape the cobs with back of knife. Cook 
until tender in as little water as possible, then add an 
equal quantity of stewed tomatoes. Add one-third cup 
butter and one tablespoon sugar. Seeison with salt and 
pepper, heat to boiUng point and turn into hot serving 
dish. This mixture may be turned into a buttered baking 
dish, the top covered with buttered and seasoned crumbs, 
then placed in the oven until crumbs are browned. 

CORN FRITTERS NO. 1 

1 cup canned corn 14 cup flour 

1 well beaten egg 1 teaspoon sugar 

Salt and pepper 

PROCESS: Mix corn, flour and sugar together, add 
well beaten egg, season highly with salt and pepper and 
drop on well buttered hot griddle about the size of N. Y. 
Counts. Brown on one side and then turn and brown the 
other. Serve with fried chicken or chicken croquettes. 

CORN FRITTERS NO. 2 

1 cup corn cut from cob 1 teaspoon sugar 

1 cup flour y^ cup milk 

1 teaspoon salt 1 tablespoon olive oil 

Few grains cayenne 1 egg lightly beaten 

PROCESS: Beat egg thoroughly; add remaining 
ingredients in order given. Drop by tablespoonfuls into 
deep, hot fat. Cook six to eight minutes, turning often. 
Drain on brown paper and serve surrounding broiled 
chicken. These fritters may be cooked on a well greased, 
hissing hot griddle as Corn Fritters No. 1. 

SKIMMED MILK AHD BUTTER SUBSTITUTE MAY BE USED IK ALL 
RECIPES EXCEPT THOSE CALLING FOR CREAM. 

73 



^WEET CORN FRITTERS NO. 3 

1 cup sweet green corn pulp 1 teaspoon sugar 

2 eggs 1 cup pastry flour 

^ teaspoon salt 1 H teaspoons baking powder 

a teaspoon pepper Whites 2 eggs 

PROCESS: With a sharp knife score the kernels of 
Golden Bantam corn lengthwise of the cob; with the 
back of knife press out the pulp; then measure. To pulp 
add the yolks of eggs beaten until thick and light, then 
the seasonings. Add flour sifted with baking powder. 
Then fold in the whites of eggs beaten until stiff. Drop 
by rounded tablespoons into hot fat, fry until evenly 
browned, turning often while frying. Drain on brown 
paper and serve at once. 



CORN AND CELERY FRITTERS 

yi cup finely chopped canned corn H cup flour 
yi cup finely chopped celery 1 teaspoon sugar 

1 egg well beaten Salt and pepper 

PROCESS: Mix ingredients in the order given. 
Mix thoroughly. Drop by small spoonfuls on a hissing 
hot, well greased griddle. Brown on one side, turn and 
brown the other. These fritters should be about the 
size of individual butter plates. 



SKIMMED Mn,K AND BUTTER SUBSTITUTE MAY BE USED IN AM, 
RECIPES EXCEPT THOSE CALLING FOR CREAM. 

74 



CORN AND OYSTER FRITTERS 

1 cup canned com H cup cream or rich milk 

1 egg well beaten yi cup pastry flour 

yi teaspoon salt f^ teaspoon baking powder 

H teaspoon white pepper 1 cup oysters 

PROCESS: Chop com very fine, add ingredients 
in the order given (except oysters). Mix thoroughly. 
Bring oysters to the boiling point in their own liquor; 
let cook one minute, drain and dry them between towels. 
Take up a tablespoonful of the batter, make a depression 
in center, lay an oyster in it, sprinkle with salt and pepper; 
cover with more batter. With a small spatula or teaspoon 
scrape the fritter into a well greased, hiding hot frying 
pan; repeat until there are as many fritters in pan as can 
be conveniently turned. Let fritters cook until browned 
on one side, then turn and brown the other side. There 
should be plenty of fat in pan. Tried-out fat, salt pork 
fat is best for this purpose. 

CORN OYSTERS 

2 cups green corn pulp % teaspoon sugar 
1 tablespoon melted butter 2 eggs well beaten 
a teaspoon salt Pepper and flour 

PROCESS: With a sharp knife cut through the 
kernels lengthwise of the cob; scrape out the pulp with 
the back of a silver knife; add butter, seasoning, eggs, 
and lastly sufficient flour to shape in small cakes the 
size of N. Y. Counts. Saute in tried-out salt pork fat or 
butter. Brown on one side, then turn and brown the 
other side. 



SKIHMED HULK Ain> BITTTER SUBSTITITTE MAT BE USED m ALL 
RECIPES EXCEPT THOSE CALLING FOR CREAM. 

75 



VIRGINIA CORN CAKES 

Ji cup grated green or canned 2 eggs 

corn % cup flour 

J^ cup milk 3 teaspoons baking powder 

1 yi teaspoon sugar H teaspoon salt 

PROCESS : If canned corn is used it should be finely 
chopped. To corn pulp add milk, sugar and eggs, 
beaten until thick and lemon tinted. Sift together flour, 
beiking powder and salt. Combine mixtures. Put a^ 
tablespoon of mixture into buttered muffin rings arranged 
in a buttered dripping pan. Bake in a moderate oven, 
fifteen minutes. Serve with roast veal, beef or pork. 

GREEN PEPPERS STUFFED WITH GREEN CORN 

Cut a slice from the stem ends of the required number 
of firm, green peppers of uniform size; remove veins 
and seeds. Score the kernels of tender, sweet corn 
lengthwise of the cob and press out pulp with the back of 
knife. Season corn pulp with salt, paprika, a little cream, 
melted butter and chopped chives. Fill peppers with 
mixture; cover tops with buttered crumbs. Arrange 
peppers in a buttered baking dish and bake in a moder- 
ate oven until peppers are soft. Two tablespoons of 
the slices of green pepper finely chopped and sauted in 
one tablespoon of bacon fat or butter five minutes may 
be added to corn mixture if desired. 



SKIMMED MILK AND BUTTER SIIBSTITUTE MAY BE USED IN ALL 
RECIPES EXCEPT THOSE CALLING FOR CREAM. 

76 



TOMATOES STUFFED WITH SUCCOTASH 

Wash, wipe and remove a thin slice from the stem end 
of six uniform-sized tomatoes, scoop out the inside, 
sprinkle with salt, invert, let stand one-half hour. Mix 
the pulp with one cup of succotash, stuff tomatoes and 
arrange them in a granite dripping pan well greased; 
sprinkle the top of each with buttered cracker crumbs. 
Bake in hot oven twenty minutes or until tender. Baste 
once with melted bacon fat or butter substitute. Serve 
with roast loin of veal. 



TOMATOES STUFFED WITH GREEN CORN 

Cut a slice from the stem ends of the required number 
of firm tomatoes of uniform size; reserve slices. Scoop 
out pulp and seeds; score the kernels of tender sweet 
corn lengthwise of cob and press out pulp with back of 
knife. Sprinkle the inside of tomatoes with a little salt. 
Season com pulp with salt, paprika, melted butter, 
cream and chopped chives or onion juice. Fill tomatoes 
with mixture, set the slices cut from stem ends in place. 
Arrange tomatoes in a buttered baking dish and bake in 
a moderate oven until tomatoes are soft. A green pepper 
finely chopped and sauted in butter five minutes may be 
added to the corn if desired. 



SEIMMED MILK AHD BUTTER SUBSTITUTE MAY BE USED m ALL 
RECIPES EXCEPT THOSE CALLING FOR CREAM. 

77 



GREEN CORN AU GRATIN 

1 tablespoon finely chopped onion 14 teaspoon salt 

1 tablespoon finely chopped 2 cups rich milk or thin 
green pepper cream 

1 tablespoon butter Green corn cut from cob 

2 tablespoons flour 2 eggs 

Buttered cracker crumbs 

PROCESS: Cook onion and pepper in butter until 
soft but browned; add flour mixed with salt and stir 
until smooth; add milk or cream gradually, stirring 
constantly until boiling point is reached. Add enough 
sweet green corn to make a consistent mixture; add eggs 
lightly beaten. Turn mixture into a well greased, 
individual ramekins; cover with buttered cracker crumbs 
and bake in the oven until heated through and crumbs 
are browned. Serve as an entree or as the main dish at 
luncheon or supper. 



CREAMED CORN AU GRATIN 

4 tablespoons butter or butter 1 teaspoon sugar 

substitute 1 H cups rich milk 

4 tablespoons flour 2 cups green corn cut from cob 

1 teaspoon salt Ji cup cracker crumbs 

ii teaspoons white pepper H cup melted butter or 
Few grains cayenne butter substitute 

PROCESS: Melt fat in a saucepan; add flour, salt, 
pepper, sugar and gradually milk, stirring constantly. 
Cook one minute; then stir in corn; bring to boiling 
point; then turn into a buttered baking dish ; cover top 
with cracker crumbs mixed with melted fat and bake 
twenty minutes in a moderate oven. 



SKIMMED Mn,K AND BUTTER SUBSTITUTE MAY BE USED IH ALL 
RECIPES EXCEPT THOSE CALUNG FOR CREAM. 

78 



CORN CROQUETTES 

1 quart grated green corn H teaspoon pepper 

2 cups milk 1 teaspoon sugar 
2 tablespoons butter 2 well beaten eggs 
2 tablespoons cheese 3 tablespoons flour 

1 teaspoon salt 

PROCESS: Cook corn and flour in milk in double 
boiler twenty minutes; add butter, cheese, salt, pepper, 
sugar and well beaten eggs; spread in granite dripping 
pan to the depth of one inch. When cold cut in two-inch 
squares, dip in flour, egg and cracker crumbs; fry in 
deep fat. Drain on brown paper and serve with fried 
chicken. 

CORN TIMBALES 

2 tablespoons butter or butter i4 cup soft bread crumbs 
substitute 1 teaspoon sugar 

2 tablespoons chopped onion 1 teaspoon salt 

2 tablespoons chopped green ^ teaspoon pepper 

pepper 3 eggs 
2 cups hot green corn or 1 can corn 

PROCESS: Melt fat in a saucepan, add onion and 
pepper, cook five minutes without browning, stir con- 
stantly, add corn finely chopped, bread crumbs, sugar, 
salt and pepper; beat the egg yolks thick and light; add 
to first mixture; cut and fold in the whites beaten until 
stiff. Fill well buttered timbale molds two-thirds full; 
set molds in pan of hot water and bake until mixture is 
firm. Serve with tomato sauce. 



SBIUiaED MILE AND BUTTER SUBSTITUTE MAY BE USED IN ALL 
BECIPES EXCEPT THOSE CALUHG FOR CREAM. 

79 



CORN CUSTARD 

1 cup cooked green corn or canned 1 teaspoon sugar 

corn finely chopped ^i teaspoon pepper 

4 eggs slightly beaten Few drops onion juice 

^ teaspoon salt 1 }i cups scalded milk 

PROCESS: Beat eggs slightly, add seasoning and 
pour on slowly scalded milk; continue beating; add 
corn, mix well; turn into a buttered baking dish set in 
a pan of hot water; bake in moderate oven twenty to 
twenty-five minutes. Stir mixture once while cooking 
to prevent corn from settling to the bottom of dish. Turn 
on serving platter and surround with broiled tomatoes. 

ZORNLET CUSTARD 

3 eggs slightly beaten }4 teaspoon white pepper 

1 teaspoon sugar 14 can kornlet 

i4 teaspoon salt 2 cups milk 

Onion juice 

PROCESS: To the slightly beaten eggs add sugar, 
salt, pepper, kornlet and gradually the milk and flavor 
with onion juice. Stir until well mixed. Turn into a 
buttered baking dish, set dish in a pan of boiling water 
and bake in a moderate oven until firm. Serve from bak- 
ing dish at luncheon or supper. 



SKIMMED Mn,K AND BUTTER SDBSTITDTE MAY BE USED m ALL 
RECIPES EXCEPT THOSE CALLING FOR CREAM. 

80 



CORN OMELET 

4 eggs beaten separately 1 teaspoon sugar 

4 tablespoons hot water 1 }^ tablespoons butter 

1 teaspoon salt J4 cup corn cut from the cob 

14 teaspoon pepper or canned corn 

PROCESS: Beat the yolks of eggs until thick and 
light; add salt, pepper, sugar, corn and hot water; 
mix well. Beat whites of eggs until stiff and cut and fold 
them into first mixture; blend thoroughly. Melt butter 
in iron spider; tip it so the sides are well buttered ; turn 
in the mixture, spread evenly; cook ten minutes on top 
of range; then finish cooking in the oven. Fold as puffy 
omelet on a hot platter. Serve with thin white cheese 
or tomato sauce. 



GREEN CORN PUDDING 

2 cups grated cooked green corn 14 cup milk 

2 eggs slightly beaten 1 teaspoon sugar 

a cup melted butter Salt, pepper 

PROCESS: Grate the corn from the cobs or score 
each row of kernels lengthwise of cob and press out pulp 
with the back of knife. There should be two cups. To 
corn pulp add eggs slightly beaten, melted butter, milk 
and seasonings. Turn into a buttered baking dish and 
bake until firm. Test by thrusting silver knife into 
pudding; if knife comes out clean, pudding is done. 
Serve as a vegetable. 



SKIMMED Mn.E AND BUTTER SUBSTITUTE MAY BE USED IN ALL 
RECIPES EXCEPT THOSE CALLING FOR CREAM. 

81 



CORN PUDDING 

Yolks 3 eggs H cup butter 

2 cups green corn Whites 3 eggs 

2 cups milk Salt and pepper 

PROCESS: Beat yolks of eggs until thick and light; 
add corn, milk, butter, salt and pepper to taste. Fold in 
whites of eggs beaten until stiff; turn into a buttered 
pudding dish and bake in a moderate oven one hour. 

GREEN CORN SCRAMBLED WITH EGGS 

3 small ears of cooked corn or }i teaspoon white pepper 

}i can of corn 1 tablespoon finely chopped 

1 teaspoon salt green pepper 

1 14 tablespoons bacon fat or 4 eggs slightly beaten 

butter 

PROCESS: Use Golden Bantam corn if possible. 
Cut corn from cob and mix with salt, pepper and green 
pepper. Melt fat in an omelet pan; add corn mixture 
and cook three minutes; add eggs. Stir and scrape 
carefully from the bottom of pan and cook until eggs are 
set. Roll on to a hot serving platter, sprinkle with pap- 
rika and garnish with crisp bacon and sprigs of parsley. 

GREEN CORN WAFFLES 

1 a cups flour % cup green corn pulp 

1 yi tablespoons baking powder }4 cup cream 
}4 teaspoon salt Ji cup butter 

Yolks 3 eggs Whites 3 eggs 

PROCESS: Sift together the dry ingredients. 
Beat yolk of eggs until thick and lemon- tinted; add to 
cream and gradually stir into dry ingredients. Add corn 
pulp and melted butter. Beat thoroughly; then fold in 
the whites of eggs beaten until stiff. Cook at once in a 
hot, well greased waffle iron. 

SKIMMED Mn-K AND BUTTER SUBSTITUTE MAY BE USED IN ALL 
RECIPES EXCEPT THOSE CALLING FOR CREAM. 

82 



GREEN CORN GRIDDLE CAKES NO. 1 

1 cup grated cold cooked green corn 2 yi cups flour 

2 tablespoons melted butter or 2 teaspoons baking powder 

bacon fat 1 egg lightly beaten 

1 tablespoon sugar 2 cups sweet milk 

PROCESS: Add butter, salt and sugar to grated 
corn; sift flour and baking powder together; add to 
first mixture alternately with the milk; add lightly 
beaten egg and cook as griddle cakes on a hot, well 
greased griddle. 



GREEN CORN GRIDDLE CAKES NO. 2 

2 cups cold cooked grated corn 1 teaspoon baking powder 
1 cup flour 2 teaspoons sugar 

1 teaspoon salt yi cup top milk 

2 eggs 

PROCESS : Grate the corn from the cobs or cut from 
cobs and finely chop. Sift together flour, salt, baking 
powder and sugar; add to corn pulp, mix thoroughly. 
Add milk and yolks of eggs well beaten. Beat whites of 
eggs until stiff ; fold them into mixture; beat batter one 
minute. Cook as griddle cakes. If skimmed milk is 
used, add one tablespoon of melted butter. 



SKIMMED MILK AND BUTTER SUBSTITUTE MAY BE USED IN ALL 
RECIPES EXCEPT THOSE CALLING FOR CREAM. 

83 



CORN AND BACON 

12 thin slices bacon 2 eggs 

2 cups canned corn or }4 green pepper finely chopped 

1 14 cups dried corn 1 medium sized onion finely 

Salt, pepper and paprika chopped 

PROCESS: Arrange slices of bacon in a cold iron 
skillet, heat slowly until most of the fat is tried out; 
drain off fat occasionally. Increase meat and crisp bacon 
quickly without burning. Remove to warming oven. Cook 
pepper and onion in three tablespoons of the fat until 
soft without browning. Add corn, stir until well mixed ; 
add eggs lightly beaten, salt, pepper and paprika. Scram- 
ble as scrambled eggs. Heap in a mound on a hot platter 
and garnish with bacon. If dried corn is used follow 
recipe for Cooking Dried Corn, and finish as directed in 
above recipe. 

CORN TOAST 

}4 tablespoon onion finely chopped 2 cups rich cream 

1 yi tablespoons butter or butter J^ teaspoon salt 

substitute H teaspoon paprika 

1 cup canned corn 6 rounds toasted bread 

PROCESS: Melt butter in a saucepan; add onion 
and cook three minutes without browning, stirring con- 
stantly. Add corn, cream and seasonings, bring to 
boiling point and cook very slowly five minutes. Arrange 
hot buttered toast on a hot platter. Pour over mixture, 
sprinkle with paprika and grated cheese and serve 
immediately. 



SKIMMED MO-K AJXD BUTTER SUBSTITUTE MAY BE USED IN ALL 
RECIPES EXCEPT THOSE CALLING FOR CREAM. 

84 



CREAM OF CORN SOUP 

1 can corn 1 teaspoon sugar 

2 cups boiling water 2 tablespoons butter 
2 cups scalded milk 2 tablespoons flour 

1 slice onion 1 teaspoon salt 

yi teaspoon white pepper 

PROCESS: Finely chop the corn from one can; 
add boiling water, cook slowly twenty minutes. Scald 
milk with onions, remove onion and add milk to corn. 
Add sugar and bind with butter or butter substitute 
and flour cooked together. Add salt and pepper. Serve 
with freshly popped corn slightly salted. 

CORN SOUP WITH WHIPPED CREAM 

6 ears or 1 can of corn 1 teaspoon sugar 

2 cups cold water 1 J^ teaspoons salt 

2 tablespoons finely chopped 3 tablespoons butter or 

onion butter substitute 

2 cups scalded milk 3 tablespoons flour 

1 cup condensed cream, whipped 

PROCESS: Cut corn from cob, chop fine, add water 
and cook twenty minutes. Rub through a puree strainer ; 
add scalded milk. Cook onion in butter five minutes 
without browning; remove onion, add flour and cook 
one minute; add seasoning and corn mixture. Mix well, 
bring to boiling point, cook five minutes; then pour 
over whipped cream placed in bottom of hot soup tureen. 
Serve with crisp crackers. 



SKIMMED MILK AND BUTTER SUBSTITUTE MAY BE USED ES ALL 
RECIPES EXCEPT THOSE CALLING FOR CREAM. 

85 



GREEN CORN SOUP 

6 ears sweet green corn 1 teaspoon salt 

2 cups milk scalded with H teaspoon white pepper 

1 slice onion 2 tablespoons flour 

1 teaspoon sugar 2 tablespoons butter 

Paprika 

PROCESS: Grate the corn; there should be two 
cups pulp. Cover cobs with cold water and bring to 
boiling point and simmer thirty minutes. Strain the 
liquor; there should be two cups. To this liquor add 
the corn pulp and cook fifteen minutes, counting from 
time boiling point is reached. Add seasonings, remove 
onion from scalded milk or cream and add to corn mix- 
ture. Melt butter in a saucepan, add flour, stir to a 
smooth paste; add gradually some of the hot mixture 
until of the consistency to pour. Combine mixtures and 
cook five minutes. Sprinkle each portion with paprika 
and pass daintily browned cheese crackers. 

CORN SOUP WITH TOMATOES 

2 cups grated cooked green corn 1 small clove garlic finely 

or 1 can corn chopped 

1 a cups tomatoes 6 cups well seasoned chicken 

H green or red pepper or veal stock 

1 tablespoon onion finely chopped Salt and pepper 

PROCESS: Peel and quarter tomatoes, scrape out 
all the seeds, add tomatoes, corn, pepper, onion and 
garlic to stock; place kettle on range, bring to boiling 
point, cook rapidly five minutes, reduce heat and simmer 
until vegetables are tender (about thirty minutes). 
Season with salt and pepper. Serve with croutons. 



SKIMMED Mn-K AND BUTTER SUBSTITUTE MAY BE USED IN ALL 
RECIPES EXCEPT THOSE CALLING FOR CREAM. 

86 



CORN CHOWDER 

2 cups cooked green corn or 2 cups boiling water 

1 can corn 3 cups milk 

1 cup salt pork cut in half cubes 3 tablespoons butter or 
4 cups potatoes cut in Ji-inch butter substitute 

cubes 4 Boston crackers 

a onion sliced Salt, pepper and few grains 

cayenne 

PROCESS: Try out the cubes of pork in saucepan; 
add onion and cook five minutes without browning; 
strain fat into stewpan. Parboil potato cubes five min- 
utes; drain; add potatoes to fat; add two cups boiling 
water; continue cooking until potatoes are tender. 
Add com and milk scalded, bring to boiling point. 
Season with salt, pepper and cayenne; add butter and 
crackers, the latter split and soaked in cold skimmed 
milk enough to cover. Remove crackers with skim- 
mer, turn chowder into hot tureen, place crackers on 
top and serve immediately. A delicious chowder may 
be made by substituting the same quantity of succotash 
for the com. 



SKIMMED MILK AND BDTTER SUBSTITUTE MAT BE USED IN ALL 
RECIPES EXCEPT THOSE CALLING FOR CREAM. 

87 



CORN AND TOMATO SALAD 

1 cup tomato pulp 1 teaspoon salt 

1 slice onion 1 teaspoon Worcestershire 

2 slices carrot sauce 

1 blade celery broken in pieces H teaspoon soda 

1 sprig parsely 1 cup freshly cooked or 

Bit of bay leaf canned corn (latter drained) 

4 cloves 1 tablespoon granulated 

li teaspoon pepper corns gelatine 

2 tablespoons cold water 

PROCESS: Cook the first eight ingredients in a 
saucepan twenty minutes; then rub through a strainer; 
add soda, salt, Worcestershire and hot corn. Soak 
gelatine in cold water and dissolve over hot water. 
Remove first mixture from range; add gelatine, mix well 
and pour into individual molds previously wet in cold 
water. Chill thoroughly, unmold and serve in nests of 
lettuce leaves; garnish with Mayonnaise dressing. 



CORN SALAD 

2 cups freshly boiled green corn 4 young onions or 2 table- 

Ji green or red pepper spoons finely chopped chives 

PROCESS: Cut tender, freshly cooked corn from 
the cob; add pepper and onion finely chopped; toss 
lightly and marinate with French dressing; let stand to 
ripen one hour; then serve in nests of endive with or 
without Mayonnaise dressing. 



SKIMMED MILK AND BUTTER SUBSTITUTE MAY BE USED IN ALL 
RECIPES EXCEPT THOSE CALLING FOR CREAM. 

88 



CORN HASH 
(Relish to Serve with Meats, etc.) 

H small head cabbage 2 medium sized onions 

2 green peppers 3 cups freshly cooked corn 

1 cup sugar 1 tablespoon whole black 

2 tablespoons whole mustard pepper 



1 tablespoon celery seed 

1 red pepper Vinegar to cover 

Salt to taste 

PROCESS: Chop cabbage, peppers and onion very 
fine; add corn freshly boiled and cut from cob. Add 
sugar, mustard, celery seed and pepper. Mix well, 
season to taste with salt; add vinegar and simmer 
twenty minutes. Store in half-pint glass jars in a cool 
place. 

CORN RELISH 

14 ears sweet green corn J^ cup salt 

14 medium sized head white 1 }i cups granulated sugar 

cabbage 6 tablespoons flour 

3 green peppers J^ teaspoon tumeric 

2 mild red peppers 2 tablespoons ground 

3 large onions mustard 

J^ teaspoon celery seed 1 quart white vinegar 

PROCESS: Cut com from cob; wipe peppers with 
damp cloth, cut a slice from stem ends and remove 
seeds and veins; peel onions. Finely chop cabbage, 
onions and peppers. Mix well; add one pint vinegar 
and heat to boiling point. Sift seasonings together 
twice; add gradually remaining vinegar, stirring con- 
stantly; then pour slowly into hot vegetables. Continue 
cooking thirty-five minutes. Turn into half-pint, steri- 
hzed glass jars; seal and store. 



SKIMMED MILE AND BUTTER SDBSTITDTE MAY BE USED IN ALL 
RECIPES EXCEPT THOSE CALLING FOR CREAM. 

89 



TO DRY CORN 

If possible, get the Yellow Bantam green corn. 
Remove husks and silk. Arrange ears criss-cross in a 
steamer, cover steamer with a folded crash tea towel, 
place cover over towel and set steamer over a vessel of 
boiling water. Steam corn fifteen minutes. Remove 
from steamer and plunge into very cold water. Drain 
and with a sharp knife cut corn from the cobs, cutting 
from the tip toward the butts, using care that corn is 
not cut so deep as to remove the chaff. With the back of 
a silver knife scrape the cobs to remove the germ or 
what is called the "heart of the kernel." Cover small 
screens or cake coolers with cheese cloth and cover with 
corn. Do not pile it on too thick, rather strew it over. 
Place these trays in the oven of the gas range and light 
the pilot light, turn it half offhand leave oven door open; 
occasionally stir the corn with the hand and alternating 
the trays in the oven from the top grate to the bottom 
grate, and one tray may be placed on top of the oven, 
and at intervals exchanged with those inside. When 
corn rattles and is readily shaken from the cloth, it is 
ready to store in tin cans or boxes. Corn may be set 
in the sun in a screened porch and scattered over larger 
screens ; they must be set indoors when the sun goes down, 
otherwise the corn will become damp. This is an old-time 
method but a good one. Small quantities may be dried 
at a time as soon as green corn is in season. 



SKIMMED Mn,K AND BUTTER SUBSTITUTE MAY BE USED m ALL 
RECIPES EXCEPT THOSE CALLIWG FOR CREAM. 

90 



TO COOK DRIED CORN 

Cover one cup of dried corn with lukewarm water 
and let it stand over night in a warm place (the back of 
range is a good place) . In the morning as the water is all 
absorbed add more water to cover, bring to boiling point 
and cook slowly until tender (about two hours), add more 
water if necessary. Season with salt, pepper and one 
tablespoon butter and rich milk or thin cream to moisten 
— about one cup. 

TO CAN SWEET CORN 

There is no better corn for canning or general use for 
that matter than Golden Bantam. If possible, have the 
corn fresh pulled from the stalk and husked immediately. 
Use only the fully developed ears. With a sharp knife 
score each row of kernels lengthwise of the ears, with the 
back of a silver knife press out the heart of pulp leaving 
the hulls on the cob. (Be sure that this part of the pro- 
cess is very thoroughly done that there may be no waste). 
Fill sterilized jars two-thirds full of pulp and no more, as 
the pulp swells very greatly in the first part of cooking. 
Fill three jars at a time, place jars in cooker or canner 
with covers beside them ; cook fifteen minutes, stir down 
with a silver spoon or knife the corn in each jar, continue 
stirring at intervals when corn appears to rise to top of 
jars. When corn pulp ceases puffing in cooking, then 
fill two jars to the top from the third and continue 
cooking thirty minutes. Wipe tops of jars, adjust 
rubber rings and covers, do not tightly seal, and finish 
cooking another half hour. Seal, remove from canner, 
cool (out of draft), then store. 



SKIMMED MILK AND BUTTER SUBSTITUTE MAY BE USED IN AM, 
EECIPES EXCEPT THOSE CALLING FOR CREAM. 

91 



CHAPTER V. 



COLONIAL INDIAN STJET PUDDING 

4 cups scalded milk l^ tablespoon ginger 

1 cup corn meal }^ teaspoon cinnamon 

1 cup creamed suet ^ cup seed and shredded 

1 cup molasses raisins 

2 eggs 2 cups cold milk 
1 teaspoon salt J^ cup cold water 

PROCESS: Stir the meal slowly into the milk; add 
remaining ingredients in the order given, except the cold 
water and milk; lastly add eggs, beaten thick and light; 
pour into well buttered baking dish ; pour cold water and 
milk over top (do not stir these into mixture). Bake 
slowly in a moderate oven three hours. Serve with Hard 
Sauce or cream and sugar. 



STEAMED INDIAN MEAL PUDDING 

1 cup corn meal ^i cup finely chopped suet 

3^ cup sour milk 1 teaspoon salt 

Ji cup N. O. molasses 1 teaspoon ginger 

1 teaspoon soda 

PROCESS: Mix corn meal, molasses, suet and ginger, 
dissolve soda in sour milk; add to first mixture. Beat 
well, pour into well buttered mold and steam four hours. 
Serve with Lemon or Molasses Sauce. 



SKIMMED MILK AHD BUTTER SUBSTITUTE MAY BE USED IN ALL 
RECIPES EXCEPT THOSE CALLING FOR CREAM. 

92 



APPLE AND BROWN BREAD PUDDING 

2 cups brown bread crumbs }^ cup brown sugar 

2 cups chopped apples 1 egg 

% cup finely chopped suet 2 tablespoons flour 

1 cup seed raisins J^ teaspoon salt 

1 cup milk 

PROCESS: Mix bread crumbs and apple; add suet, 
raisins mixed with flour and salt; add milk and beat 
thoroughly. Steam in buttered molds two hours. Serve 
with Lemon or Brandy Sauce. 

INDIAN MEAL PUDDING 

1 quart scalded milk 1 teaspoon salt 

}i cup corn meal Ji teaspoon cinnamon 

2 tablespoons butter % teaspoon ginger 
1 cup molasses 2 eggs 

1 cup cold milk 

PROCESS: Pour scalded milk slowly on corn meal 
while stirring constantly and cook in a double boiler 
twenty minutes, then add butter and molasses. Sift 
together salt and spices, add to first mixture; add eggs 
beaten until thick and lemon tinted. Turn into a but- 
tered earthen pudding dish and pour cold milk over top. 
Bake in a slow oven one hour. Serve with Hard Sauce, 
top milk or sweetened cream. The pudding is delicious 
without sauce. 



SEIHMED MILK Am) BUTTER SUBSTITUTE MAT BE USED m ALL 
KECIPES EXCEPT THOSE CALLING FOR CREAM. 

93 



BAKED INDIAN PUDDING 

6 cups scalded milk 1 tablespoon butter 

Jl cup corn meal 1 teaspoon salt 

a cup molasses 1 teaspoon ginger 

PROCESS: Pour hot milk slowly on corn meal. 
Cook in double boiler twenty-five minutes. Add molas- 
ses, butter, salt and sift in the ginger. Turn into a but- 
tered baking dish and bake slowly two hours in a very 
moderate oven. Serve with Hard Sauce or sweetened 
cream. If baked too fast it will not whey and will be 
too solid. 

BAKED INDIAN PUDDING WITH SWEET APPLES 

}i cup corn meal H teaspoon salt 

1 cup cold water H teaspoon ginger 

2 cups scalded milk 1 teaspoon cinnamon 

1 cup molasses H teaspoon cloves 

2 eggs 4 sweet apples 

^ cup cold milk 

PROCESS: Pour cold water over corn meal; mix 
well; then stir gradually into scalded milk, stir until 
the mixture thickens. Add molasses, eggs beaten until 
thick and lemon tinted, and salt sifted with spices. Beat 
thoroughly. Wipe, core, pare and thinly slice apples, 
put them into a well greased baking dish, pour over the 
mixture and bake in a moderate oven thirty minutes. 
Pour over top cold milk and bake without stirring two 
hours. Serve with top milk or cream. 



SKIMMED MILK AND BUTTER SUBSTITUTE MAT BE USED IN ALU 
RECIPES EXCEPT THOSE CALLING FOR CREAM. 

94 



BAKED CORN MEAL PUDDING 

yi cup corn meal J^ cup molasses 

1 cup cold water yi teaspoon salt 

2 cups scalded milk 1 teaspoon cinnamon 
J4 cup sugar 1 teaspoon ginger 

2 eggs slightly beaten J^ cup milk (extra) 

PROCESS: Stir com meal into cold milk; add to 
scalded milk; add sugar, molasses, salt, cinnamon, ginger 
and egg slightly beaten. Pour into a buttered pudding 
dish; bake thirty minutes; pour over the extra half cup 
of cold milk and bake two hours in a moderate oven with- 
out stirring. 



BAKED INDIAN MEAL PUDDING 
With Quick Tapioca 

a cup corn meal 2 tablespoons butter or 

J^ cup " quick ' ' tapioca butter substitute 

1 quart scalded milk J^ teaspoon salt 

1 cup molasses 1 teaspoon grated orange rind 

J^ teaspoon ginger 
1 yi cups cold milk 

PROCESS : Mix together corn meal and tapioca and 
sprinkle slowly into hot milk while stirring briskly; stir 
and cook until tapioca is transparent. Add molasses, 
butter, salt, orange peel and sift in the ginger. Mix 
thoroughly and turn into a well greased baking dish. 
Pour cold milk over top of the mixture and place in the 
oven without stirring ingredients together. Bake two 
hours. Serve with or without cream. 



SKIMMED MILK AND BUTTER SUBSTITUTE MAY BE USED IN ALL 
RECIPES EXCEPT THOSE CALLING FOR CREAM. 

95 



CORN MEAL WITH PEARL TAPIOCA PUDDING 

Ji cup corn meal J^ teaspoon Salt 

a cup tapioca soaked in cold ^ tablespoon ginger 

water over night H cup seeded and shredded 

4 cups scalded milk raisins 

2 tablespoons butter 1 J4 cups cold milk 

1 cup molasses 

PROCESS: Mix corn meal and tapioca (drained) 
and stir slowly into scalded milk. Cook in double boiler 
until tapioca becomes transparent, stirring occasionally; 
add molasses, salt, ginger, butter and raisins; turn into 
buttered baking dish. Pour the cold milk over the top ; 
place in oven. Bake one hour; stir once during baking 
period. Serve with Hard Sauce or Vanilla Sauce. 

INDIVIDUAL CORN MEAL PUDDINGS 

Prepare a rule of Hasty Pudding (corn meal mush). 
Beat three eggs very light, add one cup molasses, two 
tablespoons melted butter or butter substitute, one tea- 
spoon soda, one-half tablespoon ginger; add sufficient 
mush to this mixture to make a thick batter. Turn into 
hissing hot, well greeised gem cups to half their depth; 
press a large seeded raisin into each. Sprinkle top with 
sugar and cinnamon, add a small dot of butter to each and 
bake in a hot oven a rich brown. Serve with "Near" 
Hard Sauce. 



8EIUHED Mn,K AND BUTTER SDBSTITDTE MAY BE DSBD IH ALL 
RECIPES EXCEPT THOSE CALLING FOR CREAM. 

06 



DELICATE INDIAN MEAL PUDDING 

4 cups scalded milk 1 tablespoon butter or 

5 tablespoons corn meal butter substitute 
4 tablespoons sugas 3 eggs 

1 teaspoon salt J^ teaspoon ginger 

PROCESS: Scald milk in double boiler; add corn 
meal slowly while stirring briskly; let cook fifteen min- 
utes, stirring occasionally while cooking; add salt, sugar 
and butter; then remove from range; add eggs beaten 
thick and light. Turn mixture into buttered pudding 
mold and bake in moderate oven one hour. Serve with 
Hcird Sauce, "Near" Hard Sauce or sweetened creEun. 



INDIAN RICE PUDDING 

4 cups scalded milk ^ cup molasses 

34 cup rice 2 tablespoons butter 

a cup Indian meal J^ teaspoon ginger 

yi teaspoon salt 

PROCESS: Cook the meal in milk in double boiler 
twenty minutes; add rice (uncooked), molasses, butter 
and seasoning. Pour in buttered pudding dish and bake 
in moderate oven two hours. Stir well after cooking one- 
half hour; finish cooking without stirring. 



SEIUMED milk: AHD BUTTER SDBSTITDTE MAY BE USED IN ALL 
RECIPES EXCEPT THOSE CALLING FOR CREAM. 

97 



BAKED INDIAN AND APPLE PUDDING 

2 cups scalded milk J^ teaspoon ginger 

Ji cup corn meal Ji cup molasses 

\i teaspoon salt 1 tart apple 

Grating orange rind 

PROCESS: Pour scalded milk slowly over sifted 
corn meal while stirring constantly. Cook in double 
boiler thirty minutes, stirring occasionally. Remove from 
range, add salt sifted with ginger, molasses and grated 
orange rind to flavor delicately. Pour into a buttered 
baking dish and bake slowly one hour in a moderate oven, 
stirring several times while cooking. Pare, quarter and 
thinly slice apple and stir into pudding near the last part 
of cooking. Continue baking until apple is soft. Serve 
with Molasses Sauce or Hard Sauce. 



DATE CORN MEAL PUDDING 

2 cups scalded milk 1 cup molasses or sugar 

Yi cup corn meal J^ teaspoon cinnamon 

1 tablespoon melted butter or % cup prepared dates 

butter substitute 2 eggs 

PROCESS: Pour boiling water over dates; separate 
them with a fork, drain and dry on a towel at once, 
remove stones and all the loose skin possible, cut in small 
pieces. Pour scalded milk over corn meal; add butter, 
molasses, cinnamon and dates. Beat eggs until thick and 
lemon tinted and fold into mixture. Turn into a well 
greased pudding dish and bake until firm or about the 
consistency of baked custard. Serve with cream or 
Hard Sauce or "Near" Hard Sauce made of butterine. 
See "Pudding Sauces." 



SKIMMED Mn,K AND BtJTTER SUBSTITUTE MAY BE USED m ALL 
RECIPES EXCEPT THOSE CALLING FOR CREAM. 

98 



CORN MEAL PUDDING WITH COCOANUT 

2 tablespoons corn meal ]4_ teaspoon salt 

1 tablespoon quick tapioca 2 tablespoons sugar 

2 tablespoons shredded cocoanut 1 tablespoon melted butter or 
2 cups milk butter substitute 

H cup molasses 

PROCESS: Mix corn meal, tapioca, cocoanut, salt 
and sugar; add butter, molasses and gradually the milk, 
stirring constantly. Turn mixture into a well greased 
pudding dish and bake slowly two hours. Serve plain or 
with cream. 



IVORY CORNSTARCH PUDDING 

2 cups scalded milk 5 tablespoons sugar 

4 tablespoons cornstarch 3 egg whites 

\i teaspoon salt l^ teaspoon vanilla 

PROCESS: Mix cornstarch, sugar and salt; add 
scalded milk, stirring constantly until mixture thickens; 
cook thirty minutes in double boiler, stirring occasionally. 
Add the whites of eggs beaten stiff, mix thoroughly, add 
flavoring. Pour into wet mold, chill and serve with cold 
sweetened cream. 

GOLDEN CORNSTARCH PUDDING 

Follow recipe for Ivory Cornstarch Pudding, substi- 
tuting yolks of three eggs for the three whites. Flavor 
with one-fourth teaspoon each of vanilla and lemon 
extract. Mold, chill and serve. 



SKIMMED MILK AND BUTTER SUBSTITUTE MAT BE USED IN ALL 
RECIPES EXCEPT THOSE CALLING FOR CREAM. 

99 



CORNSTARCH FRUIT MOLD 

Follow recipe for Ivory or Golden Cornstarch Pud- 
ding, adding one cup of chopped candied fruits or cooked 
fruits, drained from their liquor, halves of apricots, 
sliced peaches, stewed and stoned prunes, to the pudding 
before molding. If the fruit is in large portions these 
may be arranged attractively in bottom of wet mold and 
mixture poured over, pressed into place and chilled thor- 
oughly. Unmold. Serve surrounded with whipped 
condensed milk or sweetened cream. 



COCOANUT MOLD 

Follow recipe for Ivory Cornstarch Pudding, adding 
one cup freshly grated cocoanut. Mold in individual 
molds; garnish each with a cherry cut in quarters. Serve 
with Boiled Custard or whipped cream, sweetened and 
flavored. 



COCOANUT CONES WITH CHOCOLATE SAUCE 

3 tablespoons cornstarch 2 cups scalded milk 

3 tablespoons cold milk M cup shredded cocoanut 

4 tablespoons powdered sugar Whites 3 eggs 

yi teaspoon salt J^ teaspoon vanilla 

PROCESS: Dilute cornstarch with cold milk; add 
sugar, salt and scalded milk, stirring constantly. Cook 
in double boiler twenty minutes, continue stirring the 
first ten minutes of cooking, afterwards occasionally. 
Add cocoanut; then fold in whites of eggs beaten until 
stiff. Turn into individual molds previously rinsed with 
cold water; chill, unmold and serve with Cocoa Sauce. 



SKIMMED MILK AND BUTTER SUBSTITUTE MAY BE USED m ALL 
RECIPES EXCEPT THOSE CALLING FOR CREAM. 

100 



COCOA SAUCE 

Ji cup sugar 1 cup cocoa (powder) 

}i teaspoon salt 1 teaspoon butter 

Yolks 2 eggs i^ teaspoon vanilla 

PROCESS: Sift together the dry ingredients; add 
yolks slightly beaten and milk gradually while stirring 
constantly. Cook in double boiler (continue stirring) 
until mixture coats the spoon. Add vanilla and butter. 
Serve hot or cold. 

ECONOMICAL CORNSTARCH PUDDING 
Without Eggs 

14 cup cornstarch Ji cup cold skimmed milk 

3 tablespoons sugar 2 cups scalded skimmed milk 

yi teaspoon salt J^ teaspoon vanilla 

PROCESS: Sift together cornstarch, sugar and salt; 
dilute with cold milk. Add to scalded milk, stirring 
constantly until mixture thickens, afterwards occasion- 
ally. Cook twenty minutes in double boiler. Remove 
from range, add vanilla. Turn into a mold wet with cold 
water. Chill. Unmold and serve with Chocolate Sauce. 

HOT CORNSTARCH PUDDING 

^ cup cornstarch M cup sugar 

J4 cup cold milk 2 eggs 

3 54 cups scalded milk 14 cup sugar 

M teaspoon salt J^ teaspoon vanilla 

PROCESS: Dilute cornstarch with cold milk; then 
pour slowly into scalded milk, stirring constantly; add 
the first portion of sugar and salt, continue stirring until 
mixture thickens; cover and cook twenty minutes; beat 
the eggs slightly; add remaining sugar and stir slowly 

SKIMMED MILK AHD BUTTER SUBSTITUTE MAY BE USED IN ALL 
RECIPES EXCEPT THOSE CALLmG FOR CREAM. 

101 



into hot mixture, continue stirring until eggs are thor- 
oughly blended. Cover and continue cooking three 
minutes. Add flavoring and serve hot with sweetened 
cream. 

ELIZABETH PUDDING 

2 cups scalded milk H teaspoon salt 

J4 cup cornstarch 14 cup cold milk 

Ji cup sugar 1 teaspoon lemon or vanilla 

Whites 3 eggs 

PROCESS: Mix sugar, cornstarch and salt; dilute 
with cold milk; add scalded milk, stirring continually 
until mixture thickens; cook fifteen minutes. Flavor; 
fold in whites of eggs beaten until stiff, mix carefully to 
retain fluffy consistency; mold; chill and serve with 
Boiled Custard or Golden Sauce. 

SNOW BALLS WITH CHOCOLATE SAUCE 

Follow recipe for Elizabeth Pudding. Mold in round 
bottom molds, chill and serve with Chocolate Sauce. 

PINEAPPLE PUDDING 

2^ cups scalded milk ^ teaspoon salt 

Ji cup cold milk ^ can finely chopped pine- 

H cup cornstarch apple 

H cup sugar Whites 3 eggs 

PROCESS: Follow method of making Elizabeth 
Pudding, adding fruit just before molding. Fill small 
fancy molds, first dipped in cold water, chill. Serve each 
mold on a circle of canned pineapple; the juice of the 
pineapple may be thickened slightly and poured over 
each or whipped cream may be used. 

SKIMMED MILK AND BUTTER SUBSTITUTE MAY BE USED m ALL 
RECIPES EXCEPT THOSE CALLING FOR CREAM. 

102 



REBECCA CORNSTARCH PUDDING 

2 cups scalded milk 1 J^ squares chocolate 

yi cup cornstarch 3 tablespoons boiling water 

J^ cup sugar 3 whites of eggs 

Ji teaspoon salt 1 teaspoon vanilla 

a cup cold milk ^ cup shredded almonds 

PROCESS: Mix sugar, cornstarch and salt; dilute 
with cold milk. Add to scalded milk slowly while stir- 
ring constJLitly; cook fifteen minutes or until mixture 
thickens. Melt chocolate, add hot water, stir to a smooth 
paste; add to cooked mixture; add blanched and shredded 
almonds. Fold in whites of eggs beaten stiff and flavor- 
ing. Turn into fancy ring mold wet with cold water. 
Chill, unmold, fill center with whipped condensed milk. 



CORNSTARCH BLANC MANGE WITH 
CONDENSED MILK 

1 cup condensed milk 1 cup boiling water 

Ji cup cornstarch Ji teaspoon salt 

a cup cold water }4 teaspoon vanilla 

PROCESS : Dilute the cornstarch and salt with the 
cold water. Combine condensed milk with boiling water. 
Turn into double boiler and slowly pour into hot milk 
the prepared cornstarch, stirring constantly until mixture 
thickens, afterwards occasionally. Cook twenty min- 
utes. Turn into individual molds rinsed in cold water; 
chill, unmold and serve with Boiled Custard. 



SKIMMED Mn,K AITD BUTTER SUBSTITUTE MAY BE USED IS ALL 
RECIPES EXCEPT THOSE CALLING FOR CREAM. 

103 



CHOCOLATE MOLD 

}4 cup cornstarch 2 squares unsweetened 

J^ cup sugar chocolate, melted 

Ji teaspoon salt 2 tablespoons hot watet 

2 cups scalded milk Whites 2 eggs 

\4 teaspoon vanilla 

PROCESS: Sift together cornstarch, sugar and salt; 
add milk gradually, stirring constantly. Melt chocolate, 
add hot water and cornstarch mixture. Cook over hot 
water twenty minutes; cool and fold in the whites of 
eggs beaten until stiff. Add vanilla. Turn into indivi- 
dual molds previously rinsed with cold water. Chill, 
unmold and serve with sweetened cream. 



ROYAL CHOCOLATE PUDDING 

Ji cup cornstarch 1 yi squares chocolate 

J4 cup sugar 2 tablespoons hot water 

14, teaspoon salt Whites 2 eggs 

2 cups milk J^ teaspoon vanilla 

PROCESS: Sift together cornstarch, sugar and salt; 
add to milk, stirring constantly; melt chocolate, add hot 
water, cornstarch mixture and cook in double boiler 
thirty minutes; stirring constantly until mixture thick- 
ens, afterwards occasionally. Cool, add whites of eggs 
beaten until stiff, and flavoring. Turn into a mold rinsed 
with cold water. Chill, unmold and serve with sweetened 
cream. 



SKIMICED MILK AND BUTTER SUBSTITUTE MAY BE USED IN ALL 
RECIPES EXCEPT THOSE CALLING FOR CREAM. 

104 



CHERRY FRITTERS 

a cup cornstarch Ji cup cold milk 

14 cup flour Yolks 2 eggs 

}i cup sugar 2 cups scalded milk 

a teaspoon salt J^ cup Maraschino or candied 

cherries finely chopped 

PROCESS: Sift together cornstarch, flour, sugar 
and salt. Dilute with cold milk; add well beaten yolks 
of eggs; then add first mixture slowly to scalded milk, 
stirring constantly, and cook in double boiler fifteen 
minutes. Remove from range, add cherries and pour 
in a shallow granite pan rinsed with cold water to the 
depthof three-fourths of an inch. Chill. Turn on a board, 
cut in squares, dip in flour, egg and fine cracker crumbs; 
fry a golden brown in deep, hot fat; drain on brown 
paper. Serve with Cherry Sauce. 

CHERRY SAUCE 

2 tablespoons cornstarch Ji cup chopped Maraschino 

y£ cup sugar cherries 

% cup boiling water J^ cup Maraschino syrup 

drained from the bottle 
1 a teaspoons butter 

PROCESS: Sift together cornstarch and sugar; add 
slowly to boiling water, stirring constantly. Boil six 
minutes, add cherries, syrup and butter. Serve hot with 
any steamed pudding. 



SKIMMED MILE AHD BUTTER SUBSTITUTE MAY BE USED IN ALL 
RECIPES EXCEPT THOSE CALLING FOR CREAM. 

105 



POPPED CORN PUDDING 

3 cups scalded milk }^ cup brown sugar 

2 )4 cups popped corn finely 1 tablespoon butter 

crushed % teaspoon salt 

3 eggs slightly beaten % cup finely chopped pecan 

nut meats 

PROCESS: Add scalded milk to prepared popped 
corn, let stand one hour. Add remaining ingredients in 
the order given. Turn mixture into a buttered baking 
dish and bake in a moderate oven until firm. Serve hot 
with Caramel Sauce or maple syrup or with sweetened 
cream. Measure popped corn after crushing. 

WHIPPED CREAM SAUCE 

1 cup heavy cream J^ cup powdered sugar 

yi teaspoon vanilla 

PROCESS: Whip cream until stiff, using Dover 
egg beater. Add sugar and vanilla; chill thoroughly, or 
follow instructions for whipping condensed milk; use in 
place of heavy cream. 

TO WHIP CONDENSED MILK 

Put a can of condensed milk into a deep saucepan; 
add water to cover. Place on range and bring to boiling 
point. Remove can at once from hot water and pour 
cold water over can to quickly cool milk. Then pack can in 
ice until thoroughly chilled. Open can and pour the milk 
into a chilled bowl. Have another larger bowl half filled 
with crushed ice; place smaller bowl in one containing 
the ice and stir until milk is chilled ; then whip as other 
cream with a Dover egg beater or a cream whipper. 
Sweeten and flavor as desired. Place on ice until ready 
to serve. After following these instructions carefully 

SKIMMED MILK AND BUTTER SXJBSTITUTE MAY BE USED m ALL 
RECIPES EXCEPT THOSE CALLHIG FOR CREAM. 

106 



with the usual satisfactory results condensed milk will 
be used in this way in the home to a greater extent than 
ever. Especially at the present extremely high price of 
"whipping cream." 

CORN MEAL SOUFFLE 

3 tablespoons butter J4 teaspoon salt 

3 tablespoons fine sifted corn J^ cup sugar 

flour 1 teaspoon grated orange or 
1 cup milk lemon rind 

Yolks 4 eggs Whites 4 eggs 

PROCESS: Melt butter in a saucepan; add corn 
flour and gradually milk, stirring constantly. Bring to 
boiling point and cook over boiling water twenty min- 
utes. Remove from range, add yolks of eggs beaten 
until thick and lemon tinted, mix with lemon or orange 
rind, salt and sugar. Beat whites of eggs until stiff; 
then cut and fold them into first mixture. Turn into 
buttered pudding dish sprinkled with granulated sugar. 
Place dish in a pan of hot water and bake in a moderate 
oven about twenty minutes. The water surrounding 
baking dish should be kept just below the boiling point. 
The souffle should be well puffed and delicately browned 
when done. Serve with Whipped Cream Sauce. 

VANILLA SAUCE 

yi cup sugar 1 cup boiling water 

1 tablespoon cornstarch 2 tablespoons butter 

yi teaspoon salt 1 teaspoon vanilla extract 

PROCESS: Mixandsift sugar and cornstarch; add 
salt ; pour on gradually boiling water, stirring constantly. 
Simmer ten minutes; remove from range; add butter 
and vanilla; beat well and serve. 

SKIMMED MILK AND BUTTER SUBSTITUTE MAY BE USED IN ALL 
RECIPES EXCEPT THOSE CALLING FOR CREAM. 

107 



LEMON SYRUP 

1 cup sugar 1 teaspoon butter 

Ji cup water 1 tablespoon lemon juice 

A slight grating lemon rind 

PROCESS: Boil water, sugar and lemon peel until 
it slightly thickens; add butter and lemon juice; beat 
with gem whip to blend butter; strain and serve at once 
with waffles or fritters. 



BOILED CUSTARD 

2 cups scalded milk H teaspoon salt 

4 egg yolks J^ tablespoon vanilla 

}i cup sugar 

PROCESS: Beat yolks slightly; add sugar and salt; 
stir constantly while adding scalded milk slowly. Cook 
in double boiler. Continue stirring until mixture thickens 
the consistency of thin cream. Chill and flavor. Do not 
allow the water in double boiler to boil vigorously while 
cooking custard, as this will curdle the custard. Mixture 
should form a coating on wooden spoon ; it is then cooked 
sufficiently. 

GOLDEN SAUCE 

2 whole eggs 1 cup sugar 

1 egg yolk 14 teaspoon vanilla 

2 tablespoons sherry 

PROCESS: Beat eggs very light; add sugar gradu- 
ally; add flavoring and beat thoroughly. 



SKIMMED MILK AND BUTTER SXJBSTITUTE MAY BE USED IN ALL 
RECIPES EXCEPT THOSE CALLING FOR CREAM. 

108 



CHOCOLATE SAUCE 

2 cups milk 2 tablespoons hot water 

1 yi tablespoons cornstarch 2 eggs 

2 squares chocolate % cup powdered sugar 
M cup powdered sugar 1 teaspoon vanilla 

PROCESS: Reserve one-fourth cup of milk and 
scald the remainder. Dilute cornstarch with cold milk 
and add to scalded milk. Cook ten minutes in double 
boiler, stirring constantly. Melt chocolate over boiling 
water; add one-fourth cup sugar and hot water; stir 
to a smooth paste; add to cooked mixture. Beat whites 
of eggs stiff, add powdered sugar slowly and continue 
beating. Then add yolks slightly beaten; add to first 
mixture. Cook two minutes; cool slightly and flavor. 

MOLASSES SAUCE 

1 cup Palmetto molasses 2J^ tablespoons lemon juice 

2 tablespoons butter or malt vinegar 

PROCESS: Cook molasses and butter together 
five minutes; remove from range and add lemon juice 
or vinegar. 

HARD SAUCE 

J^ cup butter H teaspoon vanilla 

1 cup powdered sugar Nutmeg 

l/i teaspoon lemon extract 

PROCESS: Cream butter in earthen bowl with 
wooden spoon; add sugar slowly, beating constantly; 
add flavoring. Brandy may be substituted for extracts. 
Force mixture through pastry bag with rose tube on a 
cold plate; sprinkle with nutmeg; keep in cool place 
until ready to serve. 

SKIMMED MILK AKD BUTTER SUBSTITUTE MAY BE USED IN ALL 
RECIPES EXCEPT THOSE CALLING FOR CREAM. 

109 



"NEAR" HARD SAUCE 

yi cup butterine 1 tablespoon brandy 

1 cup powdered sugar Ji cup whipped condensed 

1 teaspoon vanilla milk or cream 

PROCESS: Cream butterine, add sugar slowly, 
alternately with whipped milk or cream. Add flavoring 
slowly also while beating constantly. Serve very cold. 
See Page 106, "To Whip Condensed Milk." 



APPLE SAUCE 
For Puddings 

1 cup chopped apple 1 tablespoon lemon juice 

1 tablespoon cornstarch Grated rind }^ lemon 

Few grains salt Cinnamon 

yi cup cold water Sugar 

PROCESS: Sift cornstarch over apples, add salt, 
cold water, lemon juice and rind. Add cinnamon and 
sugar to taste. Cook ten minutes. Rub through a sieve 
and serve hot with steamed puddings. 

APRICOT SAUCE 

Ji cup apricot pulp or J^ cup orange juice or water 

1 cup apricot juice 1 teaspoon cornstarch 

Vi cup sugar 1 tablespoon lemon juice 

Few grains salt 

PROCESS : Mix ingredients in the order given and 
boil gently ten minutes, stirring constantly. Strain 
through coarse sieve and serve with hot puddings, 
dumplings, etc. 



SKIMMED Mn,K AND BUTTER SUBSTITUTE MAY BE USED IH ALL 
RECIPES EXCEPT THOSE CALLING FOR CREAM. 

110 



"ITALIA" SAUCE 

2 tablespoons butter J4 cup boiling water 

1 cup powdered sugar Juice and grated rind 1 lemon 

H tablespoon cornstarch J^ cup finely shredded 

Few grains salt Angelica or citron 

Yolks 3 eggs slightly beaten ^ cup candied cherries finely cut 

PROCESS: Cream butter, add half the sugar and 
cornstarch sifted together. Add remaining sugar to 
beaten egg yolks; combine mixtures; add boiling water 
slowly, stirring constantly. Cook three minutes, con- 
tinue stirring. Add remaining ingredients, bring to 
boiling point and serve with steamed fruit, suet or plum 
pudding. 



SKIMMED MtLK AND BUTTER SUBSTITUTE MAY BE USED IN ALL 
RECIPES EXCEPT THOSE CALLING FOR CREAM. 

Ill 



CHAPTER VI. 



CORNSTARCH CAKE 

% cup butter or butter substitute 2 cups flour 
2 cups fine cake sugar 4^ teaspoons baking powder 

1 cup milk Whites 5 eggs 

1 cup cornstarch Ji teaspoon each lemon and 

vanilla extract 

PROCESS: Cream the butter with a wooden spoon 
in an earthen mixing bowl; add sugar gradually; sift 
cornstarch, flour, salt and baking powder together 
twice; add alternately to first mixture with milk; lastly 
cut and fold in the whites of eggs beaten until stiff; add 
extract. Turn mixture into two brick-shaped bread 
pans, buttered and floured. Bake forty-five minutes in 
moderate oven. Frost with boiled frosting or serve 
without frosting. 

BOILED FROSTING 

1 cup granulated sugar J4 cup cold water 

yi teaspoon cream tartar 1 egg white beaten stiff 

14, teaspoon vanilla extract 

PROCESS: Mix well, sugar, cream tartar and cold 
water in a saucepan, place on range, bring to boiling 
point, stirring constantly until sugar is dissolved; then 
cook without stirring until the syrup drops from wooden 
spoon like honey. Remove from range, add three table- 
spoons of syrup to the white of egg, beating constantly 
until well blended; return remaining syrup to range and 
cook until it will spin a thread; remove from range at 
once and pour syrup in a fine stream into first mixture. 

SKIMMED Mn,K AND BUTTER SUBSTITUTE MAY BE USED HI ALL 
RECIPES EXCEPT THOSE CALUNG FOR CREAM. 

112 



Continue beating, add vanilla. Beat until frosting cools 
slightly and begins to glaze on sidea of pan. Pour on 
cake, spread evenly, let cool before cutting cake. 



BOSTON VELVET CAKE 

i4 cup butter or butter substitute 4 teaspoons baking powder 

1 J^ cups fine granulated sugar J^ teaspoon salt 

Yolks 4 eggs Whites 4 eggs 

H cup cold water J^ teaspoon almond extract 

1 H cups flour J^ cup blanched and shredded 

Ji cup cornstarch almonds 

PROCESS: Cream butter, add sugar gradually, 
yolks o^ eggs beaten very light and water. Sift the flour, 
comstEirch, salt and baking powder; add to first mixture. 
Lastly, cut and fold in the whites of eggs beaten stiff; 
add extract; turn mixture into a buttered and floured, 
shallow cake pan. Sprinkle almonds over the top of 
cake. Bake thirty-five minutes in a moderate oven. 
Do not frost this cake. 



SKIMMED Mn,E AND BUTTER SUBSTITUTE MAT BE USED IN ALL 
RECIPES EXCEPT THOSE CALLING FOR CREAM. 

113 



ANGEL FOOD WITH CORNSTARCH 

1 cup white of eggs }i cup cornstarch 

1 cup fine granulated sugar ]4 teaspoon cream of tartar 

% cup pastry flour 1 teaspoon vanilla extract 

PROCESS: Beat whites of eggs until foamy; add 
cream of tartar and beat until stiff and dry; add sugar 
gradually while beating constantly; add vanilla; then 
cut and fold in flour and cornstarch previously sifted 
together five times. Turn into an unbuttered angel food 
pan. Bake in a slow oven from thirty to fifty minutes, 
according to the size of the pan. Invert pan on a cake 
cooler and allow cake to cool, loosen and fall out. 

LITTLE QUEENS 

K cup shortening (butter) 1 cup pastry flour 

Grated rind 1 lemon Jif cup sifted corn flour 

1 cup sugar Ji teaspoon salt 
Yolks 4 eggs Ji teaspoon soda 

2 tablespoons lemon juice Whites 4 eggs 

PROCESS: Cream shortening; add sugar gradually 
and continue stirring. Then add grated rind, lemon 
juice and yolks of eggs, beaten until thick and lemon 
tinted. Sift together flours, salt and soda; add to first 
mixture and beat thoroughly. Then cut and fold in the 
whites of eggs beaten until stiff. Fill small buttered 
muffin tins two-thirds full of mixture and bake twenty 
to twenty-five minutes in a hot oven. 



SKIMMED MILK AND BUTTER SUBSTITUTE MAY BE USED IN ALL 
RECIPES EXCEPT THOSE CALLING FOR CREAM. 

114 



WAR TIME DROP CAKES 

yi cup shortening (chicken fat) 1 J4 cup pastry flour 

1 cup sugar % cup corn flour 

1 egg well beaten % teaspoon salt 

Grated rind 1 orange 4 teaspoons baking powder 

\i cup strained orange juice Ji cup shredded citron or 

K cup chopped nut meats 

PROCESS: Cream shortening; add sugar gradually 
while stirring constantly. Add egg beaten until thick and 
lemon tinted, grated rind and orange juice. Sift together 
flour, corn flour, salt and baking powder. Add citron 
or nut meats, then stir into first mixture. Mix well. 
Drop by teaspoonfuls one and one-half inches apart on a 
well greased baking sheet and bake twelve to fifteen 
minutes in a hot oven. When eggs are plentiful add 
another one to mixture. 



CORN MEAL DOUGHNUTS 

1 cup fine corn meal or corn flour ^ teaspoon soda 

% cup white flour )^ cup sour milk 

}i cup sugar 1 tablespoon melted shortening 

K teaspoon salt 1 egg 

Ji teaspoon nutmeg Flour 

PROCESS: Heat milk and pour it over corn meal; 
add melted shortening, sugar, salt and nutmeg. Sift 
soda with flour, add to first mixture, beat thoroughly, 
then fold in the egg beaten until thick and lemon tinted; 
add sufficient flour to make a soft dough. Chill dough, 
then roll to one-half-inch thickness and shape with a 
doughnut cutter. Fry in deep, hot fat. Drain on brown 
paper, when cool dredge with powdered sugar. 



SQMMED MILE USX) BUTTER SUBSTITUTE MAY BE USED IN AU. 
RECIPES EXCEPT THOSE CALLING FOR CREAM. 

115 



CORNSTARCH CREAM PUFFS 

Ji cup butter 1 cup cornstarch 

1 cup milk 4 eggs 

PROCESS: Bring half of the milk to boiling point; 
add butter and when melted stir in cornstarch diluted 
with remaining milk. Stir vigorously until mixture is 
smooth. Remove from range and add unbeaten eggs, 
one at a time, beating until thoroughly blended between 
the addition of eggs. Drop by spoonfuls (the size of a 
small egg) on a buttered sheet one and one-half inches 
apart, shaping with the handle of a wooden spoon in 
circles, having each slightly piled in center. Bake thirty 
minutes in a moderate oven. With a thin sharp knife 
make a cut in the side of each puff large enough to 
admit of cream filling. This recipe will make one and 
one-half dozen cakes. If cream cakes are removed from 
oven before being baked through they will fall. If in 
doubt, remove one from the sheet and it if does not fall 
it is sufficient evidence that the others are baked through- 
out. 

CREAM FILLING 

% cup sugar 2 eggs 

4 tablespoons cornstarch 1 egg yolk 

yi teaspoon salt 2 cups scalded milk 

1 teaspoon vanilla 

PROCESS: Mix the dry ingredients; add eggs and 
egg yolk slightly beaten and pour on slowly scalded milk 
while stirring constantly, until mixture thickens, after- 
wards occasionally. Cook fifteen minutes, cool and add 
vanilla. Use as filling between layers of cake as for 
Cream Cakes. 



SKIMMED Mn,K AND BUTTER SUBSTITUTE MAY BE USED IH ALL 
RECIPES EXCEPT THOSE CALLING FOR CREAM. 

116 



POPPED CORN MACAROONS 

% cup finely chopped popped Ji teaspoon salt 

corn J^ teaspoon vanilla 

% tablespoon melted butter Blanched and finely chopped 
White 1 egg almonds 

5 J^ tablespoons sugar Candied cherries 

PROCESS : Add butter to corn ; beat white of egg 
until stiff; add sugar gradually; continue beating. Add 
to first mixture; add salt and vanilla. Drop from tip of 
tesispoon on a well buttered baking sheet one and one- 
half inches apart. With the spoon shape in circles and 
flatten with a knife, first dipped in cold water. Sprinkle 
with chopped nut meats and press a shred of candied 
cherry in top of each macaroon. Bake in a slow oven 
until daintily browned. 

CORN FLAKE KISSES 

Beat two eggs until thick and lemon tinted; add 
gradually one cup sugar, beating constantly. Add two 
and three-fourths cups corn flakes and one cup chopped 
nut meats, mix thoroughly. Add a sprinkle of salt. Drop 
in generous teaspoonfuls in rounds on a buttered cooky 
sheet one and one-half inches apart. Bake twenty min- 
utes in a slow oven. Maple flakes are sometimes used 
in place of the plain corn flakes. 



SKIMMED MILK AND BUTTER SUBSTITUTE MAY BE USED IN ALL 
RECIPES EXCEPT THOSE CALLING FOR CREAM. 

117 



POPCORN BRITTLE 

3 cups brown sugar H cup butter or butter 

1 cup N. O. molasses substitute 

H teaspoon cream tartar 2 teaspoons soda 

2 tablespoons hot water 
1 quart freshly popped corn 

PROCESS : Boil the first three ingredients in an iron 
kettle to the "hard crack" degree (310 degrees F.), i. e., 
when a little of the syrup is dropped into ice water it will 
form a hard ball and when pressed between the teeth it 
will not stick, but will leave them clean and free from 
taffy; add butter and when it is well blended add pop- 
corn; stir it well. Remove from range, add soda dis- 
solved in hot water, stir briskly; when mixture begins 
to rise turn it on an oiled or butter marble slab or platter; 
spread thin and evenly; when cold break in small pieces. 

POPCORN BARS 

1 quart freshly popped corn Ji cup water 

1 cup sugar 1 tablespoon butterine or butter 

Ji cup corn syrup 1 teaspoon salt 

PROCESS: Carefully pick over fresh popped corn, 
discarding all unpopped kernels. Pass through meat- 
chopper, using coarse knife; sprinkle with salt. Into a 
kettle put sugar, prepared corn and water; cook until 
candy cracks when tested in cold water (about 270 
degrees F., on sugar thermometer) . Add butter and cook 
until candy is very hard when again tested in cold water 
(ice-water is preferable) . Add corn, stir until thoroughly 
blended. Return to range to warm slightly and pour 
on an oiled marble slab or an enameled tray and with a 
slightly oiled rolling-pin roll as thin as possible. (This 
operation must be done quickly.) Cut in bars or squares. 
If it becomes too hard to cut break in small pieces. 

SKIMMED MILK AND BUTTER SUBSTITUTE MAY BE USED IN ALL 
RECIPES EXCEPT THOSE CALLING FOR CREAM. 

118 



MAPLE POPCORN BALLS 

3 quarts freshly popped corn J^ cup brown sugar 

1 cup melted maple sugar 1 tablespoon butter or 

Salt butterine 

PROCESS: Carefully pick over popped com, dis- 
carding all unpopped kernels. Melt butter or butterine 
in a large, round-bottom, iron kettle (an old-fashioned 
type if one is available) ; a large granite kettle will serve 
the purpose. Add maple syrup and sugar; bring to 
boiling point and cook until mixture will crack when 
tested in cold water. Sprinkle corn with salt; pour 
candy slowly over prepared popped corn while stirring 
briskly. Shape with slightly buttered hands quickly and 
little pressure into balls. When cool wrap in waxed paper. 
To prepare maple sugar, shave or break in small pieces, 
then measure. To one cup sugar add one-half cup of 
water and cook until the consistency of syrup. This will 
be found more satisfactory than commercial maple 
syrup, notwithstanding the extra trouble. 

POPCORN BALLS 

1 J^ cups sugar 2 tablespoons butterine 

5 H tablespoons glucose yi teaspoon salt 

% cup water 5 quarts freshly popped corn 
yi cup (good) molasses 

PROCESS: Into a kettle put sugar, glucose and 
water; stir until sugar is melted; wash down sides of 
kettle, cover and cook gently five minutes; uncover and 
cook without stirring until when a little is tested in cold 
water it will crack (about 275 to 280 degrees F.). Add 
remaining ingredients except popped corn and continue 
cooking until very brittle when again tested in cold 

SKIMMED MILK AIOJ BUTTER SUBSTITUTE MAY BE USED IN AL& 
RECIPES EXCEPT THOSE CALLING FOR CREAM. 

119 



water. Stir occasionally at first then, constantly. 
Carefully pick over corn, discarding all unpopped kernels. 
Put corn in a hot mixing bowl slightly buttered, sprinkle 
with salt and stir briskly while pouring the taffy over it. 
Mix well, then roll in balls with as little pressure as pos- 
sible. Pile in a pyramid on a buttered platter. 

PARCHED SWEET CORN 

2 cups sweet seed corn Salt 

4 tablespoons butter or olive oil Boiling water 

PROCESS: Pick over corn, removing all imperfect 
kernels and bits of cob. Put corn in sieve and pour 
boiling water over it. Drain on crash towel. Melt butter 
in iron spider, add corn and stir constantly until each 
kernel is delicately browned and puffed. Drain on brown 
paper, sprinkle with salt. Shake corn in a coarse sieve to 
get ride of superfluous salt. Serve same as salted nuts. 
If one cup of corn is parched at a time it will brown more 
evenly. 



PLEASE READ THESE BULLETINS 
(They will prove very valuable to you) 

Fanner's Bulletin No. 565. U. S. Dept. Agr. Com Meal as a Food 
and Ways of Using. By C. F. Langworthy and Caroline Hunt. 

Farmer's Bulletin No. 298. Printed in 1907— Food Value of Com 
and Com Products. By Charles D. Woods, D. Sc, Director of 
Maine Agricultural Experiment Station. 

The latter bulletin will prove invaluable to those who are especially 
interested in teaching Household Economics — ^which includes Thrift 
and Conservation of Food. 

SKIMMED Mn,K AND BUTTER SUBSTITUTE MAY BE USED IN ALL 
RECIPES EXCEPT THOSE CALUHG FOR CREAM. 

120 



MEMORANDUM 



121 



MEMORANDUM 



122 



IITOEX 

Bread — Alabama Pumpkin Corn 67 

Blueberry Corn 65 

Boston Brown 46 

Boston Brown with Fruit 47 

Corn, with Creamed Clams 65 

Corn (New Orleans Recipe) 54 

Corn Meal and Graham 51 

Corn Meal Date 48 

Crackling Corn Bread 56 

Creamed Corn 54 

"Delicia" Corn Meal and Brown Rice Griddle Cakes 31 

Eggless Corn, No. 1 59 

Eggless Corn, No. 2 59 

Indian Meal (with yeast) 50 

Indian Meal and Rye Meal 49 

Kentucky Spoon Corn 62 

Knoxville Corn 56 

Molasses Corn 58 

Old Fashioned Corn (Southern Recipe) 65 

Old Virginia Batter 60 

Pone Corn 15 

Quick War Bread 46 

Raised Brown Bread, No. 2 60 

Rice and Corn Meal Spoon 62 

South Carolina Spoon Corn Bread 53 

Southern Corn 53 

Steamed Brown 47 

Sweet Corn 65 

Thin Corn 68 

Virginia Spoon Corn 63 

White Corn Meal 58 

Cakes — ^Angel Food with Cornstarch 114 

Apple Johnny 64 

Boston Velvet 113 

Cornstarch 112 

Custard Corn 63 

Flannel, No. 1 34 

Flannel, No. 2 35 

Luncheon Johnny 64 

Rhode Island Johnny 17 

Sour Milk Corn 30 

Sponge Corn, No. 1 60 

Sponge Corn, No. 2 60 

Spider Corn 57 

Virginia Corn 76 

War Time Drop 115 

Chowder — Corn 87 

Cones — Cocoanut with Chocolate Sauce 100 

Com and Bacon 84 

Com a la Mexican 71 

Com Croquettes 79 

123 



Com Flake Kisses 117 

Com Meal for Cramblng Fish 26 

Com Oysters 75 

Com ReUsh 89 

Com Southem Style 71 

Com Timbales 79 

Com Toast 84 

Com with Cream 67 

Com Sticks 28 

Cornstarch Blanc Mange with Condensed Milk 103 

Cornstarch Cream Puffs 116 

Cream Com Meal Gems 24 

Creamed Com au Gratin 78 

Crispys, Com Meal , 17 

Custard— Boiled 108 

Corn 80 

Kornlet 80 

Dodgers — Corn Meal, No. 1 14 

Corn Meal, No. 2 15 

Doughnuts — Corn Meal 115 

Fritters— Cherry 105 

Corn and Celery 74 

Corn and Oyster 75 

Corn, No. 1 73 

Corn, No. 2 73 

Sweet Corn, No. 3 74 

Frosting— Boiled 112 

Creamed Filling 116 

Gnocchi a la Romaine 42 

Gnocchi au Gratin 43 

Griddle Cakes— Corn Meal and Buckwheat 33 

Corn Meal and Rice (Sour Milk) 30 

Corn Meal and Rice (Sweet Milk) 31 

Corn Meal, No. 1 32 

Corn Meal, No. 2 29 

Green Corn, No. 1 83 

Green Corn, No. 2 83 

Hominy 36 

Left Over Granulated Hominy 34 

"Pete's" Corn Meal 33 

Scalded Corn Meal 32 

Green Com— Boiled 66 

Au Gratin 78 

Cooked in Milk 66 

Creole 69 

Fried 68 

Green Peppers Stuffed with 77 

New England Style (Sweet Corn) 72 

Parched Sweet Corn 120 

Roasted 66 

Scrambled with Eggs 82 

Soup 86 

Steamed, on the Cob 67 

124 



Green Coin — Continued 

Stewed 68 

Tomatoes Stuffed with 76 

To Can Sweet Corn 91 

To Cook Dried Corn 91 

To Dry Corn 90 

To Sweeten Green Corn When Boiling 67 

Waffles 82 

Hash — Corn 89 

Hominy — Casserole of, with Meat 42 

Granulated Hominy Crusts 37 

With Horse-Radish Croquettes 38 

Balls 38 

Boulettes 41 

Croquettes 37 

Crusts 43 

Puff 40 

Waffles, No. 1 35 

Waffles, No. 2 36 

With Tomatoes 39 

Pearl, with Minced Ham 39 

Savory 37 

Steamed Pearl 13 

Indian Bannocks 16 

Indian Meal Flapjacks 17 

JoUy Joe 48 

Little Queens 114 

Mold— Chocolate 104 

Cocoanut 100 

Cornstarch Fruit 100 

Mammy's Pumpkin 61 

Muffins — Corn Meal and Barley Meal 26 

Corn Meal and Rice 24 

Corn Meal, No. 1 22 

Corn Meal, No. 2. . . : 22 

Corn Meal with Rice 23 

Cream Corn 24 

Currant 23 

Dainty Corn Meal 25 

Fried Corn Meal 49 

Hominy and Corn Meal 27 

Hominy 28 

Raised Corn 51 

Rich Corn Meal 25 

Mush — Corn Meal with Lemon Flavor 12 

Fried Corn Meal 11 

Fried, Fairmont Style 12 

Norfolk Waffles 36 

Omelet — Corn 81 

Paunhaus 13 

Philadelphia Scrapple 20 

125 



Polenta — with Cheese 19 

With Mushroom Sauce 18 

Spanish 19 

Pone — Corn Bread 15 

Corn 61 

Onion Corn 20 

Popovers — Corn Meal 26 

Poppets 28 

Popcorn — Maple Balls 119 

Balls 119 

Bars 118 

Brittle 118 

Macaroons 117 

Pudding — Apple and Brown Bread 93 

Baked Corn Meal 95 

Baked Indian and Apple 98 

Baked Indian Meal 95 

Baked Indian 94 

Baked Indian, with Sweet Apples 94 

Colonial Indian Suet 92 

Corn Meal with Pearl Tapioca 96 

Corn Meal with Cocoanut 99 

Corn Meal Yorkshire 29 

Corn 82 

Date Corn Meal 98 

Delicate Indian Meal 97 

Economical Cornstarch (without Eggs) 101 

Elizabeth 102 

Golden Cornstarch 99 

Green Corn 81 

Hasty 11 

Hot Cornstarch 101 

Indian Meal 93 

Indian Rice 97 

Individual Corn Meal 96 

Ivory Cornstarch 99 

Pineapple 102 

Popped Corn 106 

Rebecca Cornstarch 103 

Royal Chocolate 104 

Steamed Indian Meal 92 

Rolls — Parker House Corn 27 

Raised Corn Flour Parker House 52 

Salad— Corn 88 

Corn and Tomato 88 

Samp — au Gratin 40 

Steamed 14 

Sauces — ^Apple for Puddings 110 

Apricot 110 

Bechamel 44 

Cheese 45 

Cherry 105 

126 



Sauces — Continued 

Chocolate 109 

Cocoa 101 

Golden 108 

Hard 109 

" Italia" Ill 

Molasses 109 

Mushroom 18 

"Near" Hard 110 

Thin White 41 

Tomato 44 

Vanilla 107 

Whipped Cream 106 

Scalloped Com 72 

Scrapple with Liver Sausage 21 

Snow Balls with Chocolate Sauce 103 

Souffle— Corn Meal 107 

Soup — Com with Tomatoes 86 

Com with Whipped .Cream 85 

Cream of Com 85 

Green Com 86 

Steamed Com Meal 47 

Stewed Com and Tomatoes 73 

Substitutes to use for Buttering Crumbs 45 

Succotash 69 

With Tomatoes 70 

Tomatoes Stuffed with 77 

Southern 70 

Syrup — Lemon 108 

To Whip Condensed Milk 106 



127 




IftJ 




Google 



This is a digital copy of a book that was preserved for generations on library shelves before it was carefully scanned by Google as part of a project 

to make the world's books discoverable online. 

It has survived long enough for the copyright to expire and the book to enter the public domain. A public domain book is one that was never subject 

to copyright or whose legal copyright term has expired. Whether a book is in the public domain may vary country to country. Public domain books 

are our gateways to the past, representing a wealth of history, culture and knowledge that's often difficult to discover. 

Marks, notations and other maiginalia present in the original volume will appear in this file - a reminder of this book's long journey from the 

publisher to a library and finally to you. 

Usage guidelines 

Google is proud to partner with libraries to digitize public domain materials and make them widely accessible. Public domain books belong to the 
public and we are merely their custodians. Nevertheless, this work is expensive, so in order to keep providing tliis resource, we liave taken steps to 
prevent abuse by commercial parties, including placing technical restrictions on automated querying. 
We also ask that you: 

+ Make non-commercial use of the files We designed Google Book Search for use by individuals, and we request that you use these files for 
personal, non-commercial purposes. 

+ Refrain fivm automated querying Do not send automated queries of any sort to Google's system: If you are conducting research on machine 
translation, optical character recognition or other areas where access to a large amount of text is helpful, please contact us. We encourage the 
use of public domain materials for these purposes and may be able to help. 

+ Maintain attributionTht GoogXt "watermark" you see on each file is essential for in forming people about this project and helping them find 
additional materials through Google Book Search. Please do not remove it. 

+ Keep it legal Whatever your use, remember that you are responsible for ensuring that what you are doing is legal. Do not assume that just 
because we believe a book is in the public domain for users in the United States, that the work is also in the public domain for users in other 
countries. Whether a book is still in copyright varies from country to country, and we can't offer guidance on whether any specific use of 
any specific book is allowed. Please do not assume that a book's appearance in Google Book Search means it can be used in any manner 
anywhere in the world. Copyright infringement liabili^ can be quite severe. 

About Google Book Search 

Google's mission is to organize the world's information and to make it universally accessible and useful. Google Book Search helps readers 
discover the world's books while helping authors and publishers reach new audiences. You can search through the full text of this book on the web 

at |http: //books .google .com/I 



/ ^ /uf'^'J^ - 



/^ 



/ V ^-"^-^--v 



i^'p^ .yi^'^ 



r' M 



f '7 



/^-. ' 



/■ *'**" » 



r»«»> 



<*^ 



Jt> %. 



'- 4*^^ 






^ it 



^- 



/ 



* 4^- 



THE CORN COOK BOOK 



The 



Corn 

Cook Book 



[WAR EDITION] 



Compiled and Arranged by 

Elizabeth O. piUer 

Formerly Principal of the Chicago Domestic 

Science Training School, Lecturer 

on Household Economics 




Published hy 
P. F. VOLLAND COMPANY 

New York CHICAGO Toronto 



Copyright, 191 8, 
P. F. Volland Company 
Chicago 
(An rights Retenred) 






Preface 

"Save the wheat" is the call that has been sent out 
from Washington to the housekeepers of America. 

In response to this urgent plea, this new War Edition 
of the Corn Cook Book containing 200 recipes has been 
compiled, showing the various ways that this valuable 
cereal can be utilized so as to save wheat for ourselves 
and our Allies. 

Corn is the American Indian's greatest gift to civiliza- 
tion. The early colonists used it to a large extent. It 
is still one of the most important and delectable foods of 
the South and the New England States. No one who 
has tasted the real Southern Com Pone will ever forget its 
deliciousness. 

This book includes many substantial, inexpensive 
dishes made from corn, some of which are unusually 
attractive in appearance as well as taste. Each recipe 
has been carefully tested and will produce satisfactory 
results if the instructions given in the chapter on Measur- 
ing and Combining Ingredients are faithfully followed. 

These simple, palatable, wholesome dishes will lend 
great variety to the daily menus and enable the housewife 
to utilize at the lowest possible cost the cereal which 
ranks in food value with wheat. 

To the housewives of America the author dedicates 
this little volume "The Corn Cook Book" with the 
earnest hope that it will do its part towards winning the 
war by helping to conserve the Nation's Food. 

Faithfully yours, 

Mrs. Elizabeth O. Hiller. 



How to Measure Ingredients 

9 

It is absolutely necessary to measure all ingredients 
correctly to insure success in cooking. 

Satisfactory results have been attained, occasionally, 
by those of long experience and good judgment in measur- 
ing by dght; but when failures are made, discourage- 
ment follows and, too, habits of wastefulness are acquired 
by this "hit or miss" method. The majority of people 
need a definite system of measurements which, when 
carefully followed, must yield satisfactory results. 
Granite measuring cups, divided in thirds and quar- 
ters, holding one-half pint, table and teaspoons of regula- 
tion size, a common case knife, all of which may be pur- 
chased at any kitchen furnishing store, are among the 
essential articles for measuring correctly. Flour, meal, 
powdered sugar, soda, mustard, ginger, baking powder, 
and all ingredients which stand in boxes, settle and some- 
times harden in lumps, should be crushed and sifted 
before measuring. A cupful is a half-pint cup filled, and 
leveled with a knife. 

To fill a measuring cup, a table or teaspoon 

Toss the dry ingredients lightly into a measuring cup, 
heap it slightly, and level it with a knife. Shortening, 
such as butter, lard and other fats, are packed solidly 
into both cup and spoon, and leveled with a knife. A 
tablespoon is measured level. A teaspoon is measured 
level. 

In measuring with either tea or tablespoon, dip the 
spoon into the material, fill it, lift, and level with a case 
knife, turning sharp edge of blade toward handle of spoon. 
Divide with the knife, lengthwise of bowl of spoon for a 
half, divide the half crosswise for a quarter and the 
quarter crosswise for an eighth. When less than an eighth 
is called for use a few grains. A tablespoon of correct 



size should hold three level teaspoons. A teaspoon 
should hold sixty drops of liquid. 

Measuring Liquids 

A cup of liquid is an even cupful or all the cup will 
hold. Tablespoon and teaspoonful is all the spoon will 
hold. When the following ingredients are called for in a 
recipe, measure the dry, fats and liquids in the order 
given, thereby making one cup serve the purpose of all. 

To Combine Mixtures 

Use an earthen mixing bowl of ample size for mixing 
batters and doughs. Mix with a wooden spoon. Measure 
all ingredients correctly; mix and sift the flour, baking 
powder, spices, etc., before measuring. 

Count out the desired number of eggs, selecting those 
of uniform size, especially if a cake is to be made. Break 
each egg separately over a cup; that there may be no 
loss should a stale one chance to be one of the number. 

Separate the whites from the yolks when so specified. 
Eggs are beaten three degrees of lightness. They are 
"slightly beaten" when whites and yolks, beaten to- 
gether, will run from the tines of a fork. They are 
"lightly beaten," when beaten thick, very light and a 
lemon tint. 

Whites are beaten alone stiff and dry. 

Measure butter and liquid as suggested in the fore- 
going. Having everything in readiness, the mixing and 
baking of these mixtures may be quickly done. 

TIMELY SUGGESTIONS 

The milk called for in the recipes incorporated in 
this book is skimmed milk, except where cream is called 
for and in such recipes the finished product will serve as 
the main dish for breakfast, luncheon or supper. 

8 



Milk should always be heated or scalded over hot 
water. Milk is seldom boiled in modem cxx)kery. 
Occasionally" boiled milk "is found in Sick Room Cookery. 

Water should be boiling rapidly when cereals are 
added. Com meal and granulated hominy will combine 
with boiling water more readily if it is first moistened 
with some of the water before water is set to boil. Mush 
and porridges of all kinds are better seasoned if the 
seasoning is added to the boiling water, before adding 
the meal or cereal. 

Long, slow cooking develops the flavor of com meal 
and hominy and aids materially the process of digestion. 

When preparing mush for frying, part milk should 
form part of the liquid or wetting to insure a rich brown 
crisp surface when finished. Mush to be sliced for fr3dng 
etc., should never be packed in either tin or Russia iron 
bread pans as the salt and moisture will cause rust to 
form and settle on the mush and when turned from 
pan these spots look unsightly. A brick-shaped agate 
bread pan is best for this purpose or Pyrex glass bread 
pans. 

Lightly grease the knife used for slicing cold mush; 
it will cut more evenly without breaking. 

Tried out salt pork fat is the best fat to use for 
sauteing purposes as it bums at a very high temperature, 
This is especially true of butter. The vegetable oils give 
very satisfactory results both for deep frying and sauteing. 

Com meal and all cereals should be kept in a cool, 
dry place. The "water milled" com meal from which 
nothing is removed makes the best flavored pone, 
dodgers, mush and in fact all the quick breads usually 
made from com meal. 

This (Water Milled) com meal has not the keeping 
qualities that the modem commercial com meals have. 
It should therefore be purchased in smaller quantities 
and used at once. 

9 



MOTIONS USED IN MEONG INGREDIENTS 

Three motions are considered in mixing batters, 
doughs and otiier ingredients, namely: stirring, beating, 
cutting and folding. 

STIRRING is a rotary motion ordinarily used in all 
cookery. It is to thoroughly mix the ingredients. 

BEATING is turning the ingredients over and over 
to thoroughly mix, and at the same time incorporating 
air into the mixture. With each beating motion the spoon 
is brought constantiy in contact with the bottom of the 
dish, bringing the contents over the top folding them in 
again. Beating is used in combination with stirring, 

CUTTING and FOLDING is introducing one ingre- 
dient into a mixture, one or the other being the lighter of 
the two. This is accomplished with the wooden cake 
spoon, by making vertical cuts downward and turning 
mixture over, allowing the bowl of the spoon to bring 
the contents of the bottom of the dish over the top then 
folding them in again. The spoon turns entirely around 
in one's hand in making this motion. Repeat this motion 
alternately with beating until mixtures are thoroughly 
blended. When stiffly beaten whites of eggs are called 
for in a recipe they should alwa3rs be cut and folded into 
such mixtures. 



DffPORTAlfT— The forogolngiiistnietloiisiitastbecuttfiillyfoOowed; 
the Ingredients called for In the recces must be used, to faisure suc- 
cess In the finished product Each recipe in this Com Cook Bodr 
lias been carefuUy tested by an eipeft— a graduated teacher ts 
household ecoooniica. 

10 



CHAPTER I. 

HASTY PUDDING 
(Com Meal Mush) 

Put one quart of boiling water in top of the double 
boiler, add one and one-half teaspo6ns salt, mix two cups 
yellow or white com meal, with two cups of cold miUc, 
stir this slowly into the boiling water, boil five minutes, 
stirring constantly, then place vessel over hot water, let 
cook five hours stirring occasionally to prevent mush 
from lumping. The longer it steams the more delicious 
the flavor, serve with milk or cream. If white and yellow 
com meal is made into ''Hasty Pudding" in separate 
vessels, then packed in alternate layers in a brick-shaped 
mold, sliced when cold and served with cream and sugar, 
it makes a very attractive and inexpensive dessert for 
children. 

FEOED CORN MEAL MUSH 

Prepare the mush as in the recipe above, then pack 
solidly into an agate brick-shape bread pan measuring 
seven inches long, three and one-half inches wide and 
two and one-half inches deep, rinsed inside with cold 
water so that the mush will be more easily removed 
when cold. Chill the mush, then turn on the cutting 
board and cut in slices three-quarters of an inch thick. 
Fry a golden brown on one side, then with a griddle cake 
"spade" turn and brown the other. Use lard or pure, 
sweet drippings. Never butter, for it bums quickly and 
before the mush is browned, spoiling both the look and 
taste of the mush. Serve with crisp bacon. 

fnmyrMTien MUX AND BUTTER SUBSTTTUTB MAT BB USED m AIX 
BBCIPBS BXCBPT THOSB CALLINO FOR CRSAM. 

11 



FRIED MUSH FAIRMONT STYLE 

Pack com meal mush into a brick-shaped bread pan 
(dimensions 9x4x3 3^ inches). When cold, turn on a 
board and cut in slices one inch in thickness; dip in 
egg slightly beaten and diluted with two tablespoons 
milk, then in line sifted cracker crumbs. Repeat to 
insure their being well crumbed. Fry to a golden brown 
in deep hot fat. Drain on soft, brown paper and serve 
at once. 

CORN MEAL MUSH WITH LEMON FLAVOR 

1 cup milk 1^ teaspoon salt 

1 H cups cold water 4 tablespoons powdered sugar 

% cup com meal Thin yellow rind H lemon 
1 tablespoon butter 

PROCE^: Mix com meal, salt and sugar, add milk 
slowly, stirring constantly, add water and lemon rind, 
stir until smooth and without lumps. Place on range, 
bring to boiling point, continue stirring and cook five 
minutes. Then cook two hours over hot water, stir 
occasionally. Just before serving add butter. Serve as 
a cereal with rich cream or as a dessert. Orange rind may 
be used in place of lemon rind; the flavor of either is 
delightful. 



SKTMMKT) lOLK AND BUTTER SUBSTITUTB liAT BE USED IN ALL 
RECIPES EXCEPT THOSE CALLING FOR CREAM. 

12 



PAUNHAIJS 

1 quart boiling water 2H teaspoons salt 

1 quart cold water ^ teaspoon black pepper 

2 cups com meal H teaspoon poultry seasoning 

1 cup buckwheat flour ^ pound liver sausage cut in 

small pieces 

PROCESS: Mix the dry ingredients in a bowl; 
moisten with the cold water, then add slowly into boiling 
water stirring constautitly; add sausage and mix thor- 
oughly. Cook in a cast aluminum kettle over a slow fire 
two and one-half hours, stirring occasionally. An 
asbestos mat placed under the kettle will protect mixture 
from scorching on bottom of kettle. Pour into agate 
bread pans previously wet with cold water. When cold 
remove from pans and cut one-half inch slices and cook 
as Fried Mush. Serve as the meat course at breakfast 
or luncheon. 



STEAMED PEARL HOIONT 

(Samp) 

Soak one cup pearl hominy over night in warm water 
to cover. In the morning add two quarts boiling water, 
season with salt and heat to boiling point. Boil briskly 
five minutes. Reduce the heat and simmer five or six 
hours or until hominy is tender. Add one-fourth cup 
butter and serve with top milk or cream. Great care 
must be taken that hominy does not scorch; it should be 
stined constantly the first five minutes, afterwards 
occasionally. If cooked in a double boiler it should 
steam all day, or all night in a fireless cooker. 



SKIMMBD lOLK Ain> BUTTER SXTBSTITnTB liAT BE USED IN ALL 
RBCZPES EXCEPT THOSE CALLINQ FOR CREAM. 

13 



STEAMED SAlfP 

H cup samp 1 H cups botling water 

Cold water 1 }i cups hot milk 

H teaspoon salt 

PROCESS: Cover samp with cold water; let stand 
over night. Drain, put into double boiler, add boiling 
water, hot milk and salt. Bring to boiling point, place 
in lower part of double boiler containing boiling water 
and steam five or six hours, or cook in fiieless cooker 
over night. Serve with top milk or cream and sugar. 



CORN MEAL DODGERS NO. 1 

2 cups fine white com meal H teaspoon salt 

1 tablespoon sugar 3 tablespoons rich milk or 

2 eggs cream 

1 tablespoon butter or lard Boiling water 

PROCESS: Mix and sift com meal, salt and sugar; 
add sufficient boiling water to thoroughly moisten the 
meal, but not to make it soft; add butter and milk; 
when cold add the yolks beaten very light; then cut and 
fold in the whites beaten until stiff. The batter should 
drop readily from the spoon, but not thin enough to pour 
nor stiff enough to be scraped from the bowl. Shape in 
oval cakes, lay in a hissing hot, well greased dripping 
pan, and bake in a very hot oven until brown and puffed; 
split, butter and serve with fried salt pork in cream sauce. 



CTTM^ntn lOLK Ain> BUTTBR SUBS T I T UTK MAY BE I7SBD IR ALL 
RBCIPBS EXCEPT THOSE CALLING FOR CBSAM. 

14 



CORN DODGERS NO. 2 

1 quart corn meal 1 teaspoon salt 

2 tablespoons maple or brown 2 tablespoons lard 
sugar Scalded milk and water 

PROCESS: Add salt, sugar and lard to com meal; 
mix well, and pour over enough boiling water to make a 
batter to drop from tip of spoon; they should be an inch 
thick in the center and flatten slightly into oval cakes. 
Beat the batter five minutes before dropping them into a 
hot, well greased dripping pan. The maple sugar or 
syrup improves the flavor and makes the dodgers brown 
more richly. 

PONE CORN BREAD 

2 cups com meal (hand ground) }i teaspoon soda 

H teaspoon salt H tablespoon melted lard, 

1 H cups buttermilk bacon or ham fat 

PROCESS: Mix well com meal, salt and soda. Add 
melted fat and buttermilk, stir until well blended, then 
drop in oval cakes about three inches long by two and 
one-half inches wide on a well greased tin sheet or an 
inverted dripping pan. Bake twenty-five minutes in a 
hot oven. If not brown on top reduce heat and brown 
under the gas flame ia broiling oven. _ This requires but 
a minute or two.^Split lengthwise, butter or lay a thin 
slice between while piping hot and serve at once. 



unMMnn lOLK aud butter substttutb may bs ussd m all 

BBCIPBS except THOSE CAUJNG FOR CREAM. 

16 



CORN PONE 

To one quart of white com meal (southern milled) 
add one and one-half teaspoons salt, one tablespoon 
melted lard, and sufficient scalded milk and boiling 
water (equal parts) to make a mixture that can be molded 
with the hands into oblong cakes six inches long, three 
inches wide and one inch thick; they should be thin on 
the edges with tapering ends. Before molding them the 
mixture should be worked well with the hands, then 
shape the pones, place them on a hot, well greased tin 
sheet, brush over with melted butter or milk and bake 
twenty-live minutes in a hot oven. When done, split 
each one, butter and lay a thin slice of crisp bacon in 
each, sandwich fashion. Serve immediately. 



INDIAN BANNOCKS 

1 cup com meal 2 cups scalded milk 

1 teaspoon maple syrup or sugar 2 eggs 
1 teaspoon salt 

PROCE^: Add com meal gradually to scalded 
milk while stirring constantly, add syrup and salt; cool 
and add yolks beaten very lightly, then the whites 
beaten until stiff. Bake in a well greased, shallow 
pudding dish in very hot oven, twenty-five minutes. 
Serve in pudding dish. 



SKIMMED MILK AND BUTTER SUBSTITDTB MAT BE USED IN AIX 
RECIPES EXCEPT THOSE CALLING FOR CREAM. 

16 



INDIAN MEAL FLAPJACKS 

2 cups yellow corn meal 1 tablespoon sugar 

^ teaspoon salt Scalded milk 

2 eggs Cold milk 
1 tablespoon butter 

PROCESS: Mix and sift com meal, salt and sugar, 
add sufficient scalded milk to moisten meal, add butter, 
when cool add eggs beaten until thick and lemon tinted 
and cold milk enough to make a thin batter. Cook on 
well greased, hissing hot griddle as griddle cakes. 

RHODE ISLAND JOHNNT CAKES 

1 cup white corn meal 1 H teaspoons salt 

1 teaspoon sugar 1 tablespoon butter 

Boiling water Cold milk 

PROCESS: Pour over all boiling water enough to 
scald, beating constantly until a rather stiff mush is 
formed. Add cold milk until of the consistency to drop 
from tip of spoon. Drop with a spoon on a well greased, 
hot griddle. Cook slowly until richly browned on one 
side; turn and brown the other side. Serve with butter 
and maple syrup. 

CORN MEAL CRISPTS 

1 cup com meal 3 tablespoons melted butter 

1 cup boiling water H teaspoon salt 

PROCESS : Sift com meal slowly into boiling water 
while stirring constantly. When perfectly smooth add 
butter and salt. Spread smoothly on a buttered, inverted 
dripping pan to about one-eighth inch thickness, using 
a spatula. Bake in a moderate oven until richly browned. 
Cut in strips the size of Saratoga wafers. Remove from 
pan and serve immediately. 

SKIMMBD MILK AND BUTTER SXTBSTITUTB liAT BB USBD JS ALL 
RBCIPBS EXCEPT THOSE CALLING FOR CREAM. 

17 



POLENTA WITH MUSHROOM SAUCE 

2 cups boiling water 1 teaspoon salt 

1 cup com meal H cup grated cheese 

2 cups cold water 2 tablespoons butter 

PROCESS: Mix oom meal with cold water and 
gradually stir into boiling water, add salt and stir con- 
stantly until mush is smooth. Bring to boiling point and 
cook slowly over hot water until thoroughly cooked 
(about three hours). Remove from range, add butter and 
cheese; return to range and stir until cheese is melted 
and thoroughly blended with mush. Serve hot in place 
of meat with mushroom sauce or tomato sauce. 



MUSHROOM SAUCE 

t fresh mushrooms or H cup 1 small clove garlic finely 

dried mushrooms chopped 

1 small onion finely chopped H cup bacon fat or butter 

Beef extract H cup Brown Stock 

PROCESS : If fresh mushrooms are used they should 
be thinly sliced. If dried mushrooms are used, soak 
them in cold water to cover several hours or over night. 
Drain and reserve one-half cup of the water; finely chop 
mushrooms. Cook mushrooms, onion and garlic in fat 
until delicately browned. Heat mushroom liquor to 
boiling point, add beef extract stir until melted then add 
to mushroom mixture. Simmer ten minutes and serve 
in a sauce boat. The sauce may be strained if desired. 



CTTlfMltD lOLK AUD BUTTBR SUBSTTTDTB MAT BE USSD IN ALL 
RBCIPBS EXCEPT THOSE CALLINO FOR CBSAM. 

18 



POLENTA WITH CHEESE 

2 cups boiling water 1 cup grated cheese 

2 cups hot milk 1 tablespoon Worcestershire 

1 teaspoon salt Sauce 

1 cup fine hominy Few grains cayenne 

PROCESS: Put water and milk in top vessel of 
double boiler, add salt and bring to boiling point; then 
sift in hominy very slowly while stirring constantly. 
Boil three minutes, continue stirring. Cook over hot 
water three hours or over night in a fireless cooker. 
Remove from range, add cheese, Worcestershire Sauce 
and cayenne; stir until cheese is melted; then turn into 
a shallow granite pan (first rinsed with cold water) to the 
depth of one inch. When cold cut in two and one-half- 
inch squares, roll carefully in fine crumbs, then in egg 
and again in crumbs. Fry in deep hot fat or saute in 
hot salt pork fat. Serve with Tomato Sauce. This dish 
is a splendid substitute for meat. 

SPANISH POLENTA 

4 cups boiling water 1 medium sized green pepper 

IH teaspoons salt 1^ cups com meal 

1 medium size onion 1 cup finely chopped cheese 

1 small clove garlic Few grains ca3^enne 

PROCESS: Pour water into top vessel of double 
boiler, add salt, onion, garlic and green pepper (discard- 
ing seeds and veins of latter) finely chopped; heat to 
boiling point then sift in com meal slowly while stirring 
constantly. . Add cayenne, cover and cook over boiling 
water two hours. Add cheese and continue cooking 
until cheese is melted. Serve as the main dish for lunch- 
eon or supper. May be served for dinner to help out a 
shortage of meat. Pass tomato sauce in a sauce boat. 

SmMMKn lOLK AUD butter SUBSTITUTB mat BB XrSSD IN ALL 
BBCIPBS EXCEPT THOSE CAUJNG FOR CREAM. 

19 



ONION CORN PONE 

2 cups com bread crumbs }i teaspoon salt 

3 tablespoons onion finely chopped ^ teaspoon black pepper 

1 tablespoon bacon fat ^ teaspoon Poultry Seasoning 

3 tablespoons hot water 2 eggs well beaten 

PROCESS : Finely crumble cold com bread. Meas- 
ure crumbs. Melt bacon fat in an omelet pan and saute 
onion in fat until soft without browning. Add onion to 
prepared crumbs, rinse pan with hot water and add 
water to mixture. Sift in seasonings and add eggs beaten 
until thick and lemon tinted. Mix thoroughly and with 
the hands shape in pone cakes and cook as griddle cakes 
in plenty of hot salt pork fat. Serve with Brown Sauce 
or Tomato Sauce. 

PHILADELPHIA SCRAPPLE 
(The Real Scrapple) 

Clean and cook a pig's head in boiling water to cover, 
until the meat slips from the bones. Remove bones and 
meat; finely chop meat. Strain liquor and let stand 
until cold, then remove fat and heat liquor to the boiling 
point. Add prepared meat and season highly with salt 
and pepper. Then sift in with one hand, while stirring 
with the other, enough com meal to make mixture the 
consistency of mush. Let boil three or four minutes 
while stirring constantly, then reduce the heat and let 
cook slowly for two hours or more, stirring occasionally. 
When sufficiently cooked turn into brick-shaped agate 
pams and keep in a cold place. Cut in slices three-fourths 
of an inch thick and saute in bacon fat or salt pork fat. 
The scrapple will keep some time in cold weather. In 
some parts of Pennsylvania the scrapple is seasoned with 
a little sage. 

SKTMMKD MILK Ain> BUTTER SUBSTrrUTB MAT BB USED JS ALL 
RECIPES EXCEPT THOSE CALUNQ FOR CREAM. 

20 



SCRAPPLE WITH LIVER SAUSAGE 

Zyi cups boiling water 1 cup corn meal 

1 teaspoon salt H pound liver sausage 

PROCESS: Add salt to boiling water, then sift com 
meal through the fingers with one hand while stirring 
vigorously with the other. Stir until mush is smooth. 
Cook in a double boiler two or three hours. Remove 
casing from sausage, cut sausage in half-inch cubes. Add 
to mush, mix well and turn into a brick-shaped bread 
pan and chill. Cut in one-half-inch slices and saute in 
bacon fat or salt pork fat. Serve for breakfast. 



SKIMMED MILK AND BUTTER SXTBSTITDTE MAT BE USED Of ALL 
RECIPES EXCEPT THOSE CALLING FOR CREAM. 

21 



CHAPTER 11. 



CORN MEAL MUFFINS No. 1 

H cup yellow corn meal H teaspoon salt 

H cup flour ^ tablespoon melted butter 

1 yi teaspoons baking powder H cup milk 

}i tablespoon sugar 1 egg 

PROCESS: Sift together the first five ingredients. 
Add melted butter and gradually the milk, stirring con- 
stantly. Then add egg beaten until thick and lemon 
tinted. Beat batter one minute. Then turn into warm, 
buttered iron gem pans and bake twenty-five minutes 
in a hot oven. Serve while hot. 



CORN MEAL MUFFINS No. 2 

H cup butter 1 cup flour 

H cup sugar H teaspoon salt 

Yolks 2 eggs well beaten 4 teaspoons baking powder 

H cup com meal 1 }i cups sweet milk 

Whites 2 eggs beaten until stiff 

PROCESS: Cream butter, add sugar gradually to 
beaten yolks. Sift together com meal, flour, salt and 
baking powder; add to first mixture alternately with 
milk. Then fold in the beaten whites of eggs. Bake in 
hot, buttered iron gem cups twenty-five minutes in a 
hot oven. 



ggTT>^i>giCT^ lOLK aud butter substitdtb mat be xrssD m all 

RBCIPBS EXCEPT THOSE CALUNO FOR CREAM. 

22 



J 



CORN MEAL MUFFINS WITH RICE 

H cup scalded milk 2 tablespoons sugar 

H cup corn meal 3 teaspoons baking powder 

}i cup hot cooked rice 1 tablespoon melted butter 

H cup flour 1 egg 

1 teaspoon salt 

PROCESS: Pour scalded milk on com meal, let 
stand live minutes. Add hot rice and mix thoroughly 
with the tips of lingers, add flour sifted with salt, baking 
powder and sugar, add melted butter, the yolk of egg 
beaten very light; lastly cut and fold in the white of 
egg beaten until stiff. Bake in well buttered, hot iron 
gem cups twenty minutes in hot oven. 

CXTSSANT MUFFINS 

yi cup shortening 2 cups com meal 

H cup sugar 1 cup white flour 

3 eggs 1 teaspoon salt 

1 H cups milk 1 yi tablespoons baking powder 

H cup dried currants or sultana raisins 

PROCE^ : Cream shortening ; add sugar gradually, 
stirring constantly. Beat eggs until thick and lemon 
tinted, add to first mixture, continue stirring. Add milk 
alternately with the dry ingredients which have been 
sifted together. Add currants or sultana raisins slightly 
floured. If sultanas are large cut them in halves. Bake 
in well buttered gem cups twenty-five minutes in a hot 
oven. Serve at hmcheon or supper in place of cake. 
These muffins are delicious and will take the place of 
small cakes during "War Times." The habit will then 
be formed and the true economist will continue their use 
for this purpose forever after. 



SKIMMBD lOLK AND BUTTER SUBSTTTUTB UAY BB USED IN ALL 
RECIPES BZCEPT THOSE CALLINO FOR CREAM. 

23 



CORN MEAL AND RICE MUFFINS 

1 cup boiled rice H cup flour 

H cup scalded milk ^ teaspoon salt 

2 tablespoons strained bacon fat 2 tablespoons sugar 

H cup corn meal 3 teaspoons baking powder 

1 egg well beaten 

PROCESS: Add milk to rice and stir with a fork 
until kernels are separated; add dry ingredients sifted 
together, add bacon fat and beat until thoroughly blended 
then add egg beaten until thick and lemon tinted. Turn 
into well buttered, hot iron gem cups to two-thirds their 
depth. Bake twenty minutes in a hot oven. 

CREAM CORN MEAL GEMS 

H cup com meal H teaspoon salt j 

1 cup flour ^ cup cream 

3 teaspoons baking powder 1 egg lightly beaten j 

2 tablespoons sugar I 

PROCESS: Mix and sift the dry ingredients; add 
cream gradually, the egg, beat well; bake in buttered 
gem cups twenty-five minutes in a hot oven. If a plainer 
gem is desired, use milk in place of cream and add one 
tablespoon melted butter. 

CREAM CORN MXTFFINS 

^ cup corn meal % teaspoon salt 

1 cup white flour 1 cup thin cream 

4 teaspoons baking powder 2 eggs beaten very light 

yi cup sugar 4 tablespoons melted butter 

PROCESS: Sift together com meal, flour, baking 
powder, sugar and salt. Add cream gradually and stir 
to a smooth batter. Add well beaten eggs and melted 
butter. Beat thoroughly and bake in hissing hot, 
buttered gem cups in a hot oven, twenty minutes. 

SKTMMBD MILK AND BUTTER SXrBSTITUTB liAT BE USBD IN ALL 
RECIPES EXCEPT THOSE CALUNG FOR CREAM. 

24 



DAINTT CORN MEAL MUFFINS 

}i cup com meal Few grains mace 

H cup boiling water 2 teaspoons baking powder 

2 tablespoons butter 3 tablespoons sugar 

yi cup pastry flour 1 egg well beaten 

^ teaspoon salt H cup top milk 

PROCESS: Pour boiling water over corn meal, addi 
butter and stir until well mixed. Cover and let stand an 
hour or two. Add flour sifted with salt, mace, baking 
powder and sugar. Add milk and well beaten egg, 
beating constantly. Bake in well buttered, small muffin 
pans twenty minutes. This recipe makes twelve small 
muffiins. 



RICH CORN MEAL MUFFINS 

}i cup butter 1 cup flour 

li cup sugar ^ teaspoon salt 

Yolks 2 eggs well beaten 4 teaspoons baking powder 

H cup corn meal 1 H cups sweet milk 

Whites 2 ^gs beaten until stifiF 

PROCESS: Cream butter, add sugar gradually to 
well beaten yolks. Sift together com meal, flour, salt 
and baking powder; add to first mixture alternately with 
milk, then fold in the beaten whites of eggs. Bake in 
hot, buttered iron gem cups twenty-five minutes in a 
hot oven. 



SgTMMRD lOLK AND BUTTER SUBSTTTUTB MAT BB USED IN ALL 
RECIPES EXCEPT THOSE CALUNO FOR CREAM. 

25 



CORN MEAL AND BARLET MEAL MUFFINS 

H cup corn meal H teaspoon soda 

^ cup barley meal H cup molaaaes 

1 cup flour 1 egg and 1 egg yolk 

3 tablespoons baking powder 1 cup thick sour milk 

H teaspoon salt 3 tablespoons sausage fat 

PROCESS: Sift together the dry ingredients; add 
molasses and well beaten egg^; then gradually pour in 
sour milk while stirring constantly; add melted shorten- 
ing and if mixture appears too thick add more sour milk. 
Bake in hot well greased iron muffin cups in a hot oven, 
twenty-five minutes. If these muffins are made with 
sweet milk the soda must be omitted. Serve hot. 



CORN MEAL POPOVERS 

2 cups scalded milk H teaspoon salt 

1 cup corn meal 3. eggs beaten very light 

1 tablespoon butter 

PROCESS: Stir com meal into hot milk; add butter 
and salt, cool slightly and add eggs, beat mixture two 
minutes and turn into hissing hot, well greased iron gem 
cups; bake thirty-five minutes in a hot oven; strongest 
heat must come from bottom. 



CORN MEAL FOR CRUMBING FISH 

For crumbing fish for sauteing or frying; use seasoned 
com meal. Season the meal to be used for this purpose 
with salt and pepper; roll the fish in the meal, dip in ^;g 
and again roll in meal. Then saute fish in salt pork fat 
or fry in deep, hot fat. 



ggTMintn lOLK AND BUTTER SUBSTITUTB MAT BE USED Of ALL 
BBCIFBS EXCEPT THOSE CAIXmO VOR CREAM. 

26 



PAREXR HOUSE CORN ROLLS 

1 H cup white flour 1 tablespoon sugar 

H cup com meal 2 tablespoons butter 

4 teaspoons baking powder 1 egg 

}i teaspoon salt H cup milk 

PROCESS: Sift together dry ingredients; rub in 
butter with the tips of fingers; beat egg until thick and 
lemon tinted, add one-half cupmilk, add to first mixture, 
add remaining milk if necessary. The dough must be 
soft as can be handled. Turn on a floured board, knead 
slightly and roll to one-half-inch thickness. Shape with a 
small biscuit cutter, crease through center of each round 
with handle of knife, brush one-half of each round with 
soft butter; fold as Parker House rolls, press edges 
lightly together. Arrange on a buttered baking sheet 
and bake fifteen minutes in a hot oven. Serve at once. 



HOMmr AND CORN MEAL IfUFFINS 

yi cup fine hominy H cup com meal 

1 teaspoon salt 4 tablespoons sugar 

2 tablespoons butter Yolks 2 eggs 

H cup boiling water 4 teaspoons baking powder 

1 cup scalded milk Whites 2 eggs 

PROCESS: Cook hominy, salt and butter in double 
boiler twenty-five minutes, cool. Pour scalded milk 
over com meal, add sugar and hominy; yolks of eggs 
beaten until thick and light. Sift in baking powder and 
fold in the whites of eggs beaten until stiff. Bake in 
hot iron gem cups well buttered thirty minutes. 



SCTMMRD MILK AND BUTTBR SUBSTITUTB MAT BB USED Hff ALL 
RBCIPBS EXCEPT THOSE CALLING FOR CBSAM. 

27 



HOMINT MTTFFINS 

1 cup hominy porridge packed H teaspoon salt 
solidly H cup milk 

2 cups flour 2 tablespoons melted butter 

2 teaspoons sugar 2 eggs beaten very light 
4 teaspoons baking powder 

PROCESS : Sift together flour, salt, sugar and baking 
powder, add porridge and mix well, add melted butter 
and milk, beat until free from lumps. Add eggs beaten 
until thick and lemon tinted. Bake twenty-five minutes 
in a hot oven, in hot, well buttered iron gem cups. 

POPPETS 

1 cup corn meal 1 tablespoon melted butter 

1 cup flour 4 teaspoons baking powder 

1 tablespoon sugar 2 cups rich milk 

1 teaspoon salt 1 egg 

PROCESS: Mix and sift the dry ingredients, add 
butter, egg, beaten until thick and lemon tinted and 
added to milk; stir into first mixture and beat batter 
three minutes. Pour into hissing hot, well greased gem 
cups and bake in hot oven thirty minutes. 

CORN STICKS 

1 cup corn meal ^ cup hot boiled pearl hominy 

% cup flour H cup butter 

3 teaspoons baking powder 1 cup milk 

14 teaspoon salt 2 eggs well beaten 

PROCESS: To hot hominy add butter, milk and 
well beaten eggs; add to dry ingredients that have been 
sifted together. Beat thoroughly and turn into buttered 
bread-stick pans and bake in a moderate oven, twenty- 
five minutes. 



SKIMMED MILK Ain> BUTTER SUBSTTrUTE MAT BE USED IN ALL 
RECIPES EXCEPT THOSE CALUNO FOR CREAM. 

28 



CORN MEAL YORKSHIRE PUDDING 

Pour one cup of boiling water over one cup of white 
com meal, while stirring constantly; add one-half tea- 
spoon salt and two eggs beaten until thick and lemon- 
tinted. Pour some of the dripping from the roasting 
meat into a shallow baking dish, turn in the mixture, 
spread evenly and bake in an oven thirty-five minutes; 
baste three times while baking with some of the drip- 
ping from roasting pan. Serve hot, cut in squares, with 
roast beef, lamb or pork. 



CQRN MEAL GRIDDLE CAKES NO. 2 

(Small Recipe) 

1 cup com meal (Burr milled) 1 cup thick sour milk 
H cup floiu: ^ teaspoon soda 

yi teaspoon salt 1 egg 

2 teaspoons baking powder 2 tablespoons melted bacon, 

sausage fat or butter 

PROCESS: Sift flour, salt and baking powder into 
corn meal, mix well. Dissolve soda in the sour milk and 
add gradually to dry ingredients, stirring constantly. 
Add egg beaten until thick and lemon tinted and melted 
fat, beat mixture two minutes. Cook as griddle cakes. 
This recipe makes ten medium sized griddle cakes. 



SKIMMSD MILK AND BUTTER SUBSTTTUTB MAT BE USED IN ALL 
RECIPES EXCEPT THOSE CALLING FOR CREAM. 

29 



SOUR MILK CORN CAKES 

1 cup yellow com meal 1 egg well beaten 

H cup flour H teaspoon soda 

yi teaspoon salt 1 H cups rich sour milk 
1 tablespoon bacon or sausage fat 

PROCESS: Sift together com meal, flour and salt. 
Beat egg until thick and lemon tinted, add to dry 
ingredients, mix well. Dissolve soda in milk and add to 
mixture gradually while stirring constantly. Add bacon 
fat and beat batter one minute. Fry at once on a well 
greased, hot griddle. If batter stands too long it will 
thicken and may then be thinned by adding more sour 
milk. Cook as other griddle cakes. 



CORN MEAL AND RICE GRIDDLE CAKES 

(Sour Milk) 

1 cup com meal 2 tablespoons sugar 

H cup flour 1 cup cooked rice 

1 teaspoon salt 1 cup thick sour cream or 

1 teaspoon soda country buttermilk 
1 egg beaten until very light 

PROCESS: Sift together the dry ingredients; add 
rice and with the fingers mix it thoroughly with the dry 
ingredients, add sour milk or cream gradually, stirring 
constantly, then the well beaten egg. Beat batter two 
minutes and cook as other griddle cakes. 



amnMvn mUK AND BUTTER SUBSTTTDTB MAT BB USED IN ALL 
BBCIPBS EXCBPT THOSE CALLING FOR CREAM. 

30 



CORN MEAL AND RICE GRIDDLB CAKES 

(With Sweet Milk) 

1 cup com meal 1 cup sweet milk 

2 cups cold boiled rice 1 tablespoon molasses 

yi cup flour 1 tablespoon melted sausage 

4 teaspoons baking powder fat or butter 

1 ^ teaspoons salt 2 well beaten eggs 

PROCESS: Add com meal to rice and mix thor- 
oughly with the hand. Sift together flour, baking powder 
and salt. Add to first mixture alternately with milk« 
stirring constantly. Add molasses and shortening, con- 
tinue stirring, then fold in the lightly beaten eggs. Beat 
mixture two minutes and cook as griddle cakes. Serve 
with lemon, orange or maple syrup. 



««DEUCIA'' CORN MBAL AND BROWN RICE 

GRIDDLB CAKES 

1 cup com meal H teaspoon salt 

1 cup cooked brown rice 1 teaspoon soda 

H cup flour 1 H cups rich sour milk 

2 eggs well beaten 

PROCESS: Sift together the dry injg^redients; add 
rice and mix thoroughly; add sour milk gradually, 
stirring constantly. Add eggs and beat mixture two 
minutes. Cook as other griddle cakes. If the milk is 
not rich, add two tablespoons bacon or sausage fat. 



amnMVn MUX AND BUTTER SUBSTITUTB MAT BB USED IN 
BBCIPBS BXCBPT TH08B CALUNO FOR CRBAM. 

31 



CORN MEAL GRIDDLE CAKES NO. 1 
(With Milk and Water) 

1 H cups com meal 1 tablespoon Karo syrup 

yi cup flour 1 tablespoon bacon or sausage 

4 teaspoons baking powder fat 

1 teaspoon salt H cup milk 

1 egg fi cup cold water 

PROCESS: Sift together flour, baking powder and 
salt. Add com meal, stir thoroughly, add syrup, melted 
fat and milk, stirring constantly; add water and egg 
beaten until thick and lemon tinted. Beat mixture two 
minutes and cook as other griddle cakes immediately. 
If this batter is allowed to stand too long before using it 
may be necessary to add more baking powder to replace 
that which has been lost by long standing. 



SCALDED CORN MEAL GRIDDLE CAKES 

(Old Alabama Recipe) 

2 cups com meal Yolks 3 eggs 

1 H cups boiling water ^i cup milk 

1 teaspoon salt Whites 3 eggs 

PROCESS: Pour boiling water over com meal 
mixed with salt; stir until well mixed and moistened 
throughout. Beat egg yolks until thick and light, add 
to first mixture, stirring constantly, add milk gradually 
and continue stirring. Beat whites of eggs until stiff, 
then cut and fold them carefully into batter. Beat two 
minutes. Cook as griddle cakes. Serve with crips bacon. 



^amfTMran MILK AIXD BUTTER SUBSTTrUTB HAT BB USED IN AIX 
BBCIPES EXCEPT THOSE CALLING FOR CREAM. 

32 



"PETE'S" CORN MEAL GRIDDLE CAKES 

2 cups com meal 1 H teaspoons soda 

1 cup flour 2 H cups buttermilk or 

2 eggs well beaten clappered milk 
1 teaspoon salt 

PROCESS: Mix and sift com meal, flour and salt; 
add eggs, mix well. Dissolve soda in milk; add to first 
mixture. Beat thoroughly and fry at once. If allowed 
to stand too long mixture thickens; may be thinned by 
adding more milk. The sour milk must be rich. Butter- 
milk is best for this purpose. 



CORN MEAL AND BUCKWHEAT GRIDDLE CAKES 

H cup corn meal (hand ground) 1 teaspoon soda dissolved in 

^ cup buckwheat flour 1 H cups buttermilk 

H cup bread flour H tablespoon melted butter 

H teaspoon salt or sausage fat 

1 teaspoon sugar 1 tablespoon molasses 

1 egg well beaten 

PROCESS: Sift buckwheat, flour, salt and sugar 
into com meal, (do not sift the latter), add one cup 
buttermilk, melted butter and soda dissolved in remain- 
ing one-fourth cup buttermilk, stirring constantly; add 
molasses and well beaten egg. Beat batter two minutes 
and cook as other griddle cakes. 



SKIMMBD MUK Ain> BTJTTBR SUBSTITUTB HAT BB USED IN ALL 
RBCIPBS EXCEPT THOSE CALLING FOR CREAM. 

33 



LEFT OVER GRANULATED HOMINT 
GRIDDLE CAKES 

1 cup cold cooked granulated 2 H teaspoons baking powder 

hominy 1 tablespoon sugar 

1 well b^ten egg H teaspoon salt 

1 cup milk ^ teaspoon nutmeg or mace 

1 cup floiu-. 1 tablespoon melted butter 

PROCESS: Put hominy into mixing bowl, add egg 
beaten until thick and lemon tinted, stir constantly 
while adding milk gradually. Sift together flour, baking 
powder, salt, sugar and nutmeg, add gradually to first 
mixture, beating and stirring until all ingredients are 
well blended. Add melted butter, stir two minutes and 
cook as griddle cakes. Serve with brown sugar syrup. 



FLANNEL CAKES NO. 1 

2 cups scalded milk yi teaspoon salt 

H compressed yeast-cakfe 1 tablespoon melted butter 

H cup corn meal 1 egg 

1 cup white flour 

PROCESS: Set the following mixture to rise over 
night; scald meal with milk, add butter and flour; 
when mixture is lukewarm add yeast dissolved in one- 
fourth cup of lukewarm water; cover and set to rise in 
a warm place (68 degrees P.). In the morning add salt 
and egg; yolk and white beaten separately. Cook as 
griddle cakes. 



ffFTM^^y^ MILK AND BUTTBR SUBSTITUTK MAT BB USBD IN ALL 
RBCIPBS EXCEPT THOSE CALUNO FOR CRBAM. 

34 



FLANNEL CAKES NO. 2 

1 }i cups com meal 2 tablespoons molasses or sugar 

3 cups scalded milk ^ yeast-cake dissolved in 

H cup strained bacon or sausage fat H cup lukewarm water 
H tablespoon salt 1 H cups flour or rye meal 

PROCESS : Pour scalded milk over com meal ; add 
fat and when lukewarm add remaining ingredients. 
Cover and set to rise in a warm place over night. In 
the morning beat mixture lightly and cook as griddle 
cakes. 



HOMINT WAFFLES NO. 1 

1 cup cooked granulated hominy 1 H tablespoons baking powder 
packed solidly 1 cup rich milk 

yi cup com meal H cup melted butter or bacon 

2 cups flour fat 
1 teaspoon salt 3 eggs 

PROCE^: Sift together com meal, flour, salt and 
baking powder, add hominy and mix thoroughly until 
mixture is like meal. Add milk gradually, stirring con- 
stantly, then add melted fat and eggs beaten until 
thick and lemon tinted. Beat mixture until smooth and 
well blended. Cook in a hot, well greased waffle iron. 
This recipe will make eight large waffles. Serve with 
lemon or orange syrup. 



ggnnkraTi muk AND BinTER SUBSTTTUTB MAT BB USED IN ALL 
EBCIPBS BZCBPT THOSB CALLING FOR CRBAM. 

35 



HOMINT GRIDDLE CAKES 

1 cup cooked hominy ^ teaspoon salt 

2 cups flour 1 cup sweet milk 

5 teaspoons baking powder 3 tablespoons cream 

legg 

PROCESS: Sift together flour, baking powder and 
salt; add cold porridge and mix thoroughly to prevent 
mixture from being lumpy; beat egg until thick and 
lemon tinted ; add milk and cream to egg and combine 
with first mixture; beat thoroughly and fry as girddle 
cakes. 

HOMINT WAFFLES NO. 2 

1 cup hominy porridge packed 3 tablespoons melted butter 
solidly 5 teaspoons baking powder 

2 yi cups flour fi teaspoon salt 

1 cup milk 3 eggs beaten thick and light 

PROCESS : Sift together flour, salt and baking pow- 
der; add porridge, mix thoroughly, add butter; pour 
milk into beaten eggs and add to first mixture; beat 
until free from lumps; fry in hot, well greased wafiie iron, 
allowing three cook's spoons to each wafiie. If mixture 
appears too thick, add more milk. 

NORFOLK WAFFLES 

1 H cups boiling water 3 H teaspoons baking powder 

H cup corn meal 1 H teaspoons salt 

1 14 cups milk 3 eggs 

3 cups flour 2 tablespoons butter 
3 tablespoons sugar 

PROCESS: Cook corn meal in water twenty min- 
utes; add milk and dry ingredients sifted together. 
When slightly cooled add yolks of eggs lightly beaten, 
butter and whites of eggs beaten until stiff. Cook in 
hot, well greased waffle iron. Serve immediately. 

SKIMMED MHJB: A]n> BUTTER SUBSTTrUTS MAT BE USED IN ALL 
RECIPES EXCEPT THOSE CALLING FOR CREAM. 

36 



GRANULATED HOMINT CRUSTS 

1 cup boiled granulated hominy 1 egg 

2 tablespoons sugar Flour, salt and milk 

PROCESS: Cook the hominy in double boiler, in 
milk enough to make a thin batter and until the 
hominy is very soft. Add salt to taste and when luke- 
warm egg well beaten and sufficient flour to hold mixture 
together. Spread in well buttered, shallow pan to one- 
third inch thickness. Bake in hot oven. Split and 
serve with butter and maple syrup. 

SAVORY HOMINY 
Serve with Roast Goosei Ducks and Pork 

To two cups of hot steamed or boiled hominy well 
seasoned with salt add one-third cup of butter or butter- 
ine, one-fourth cup finely chopped white onions and one 
and one-half tablespoons finely chopped parsley. Mix 
thoroughly. If too dry moisten with a little hot con- 
densed milk or cream. Serve in place of potatoes with 
roast goose, ducks or pork. This mixture may be used 
for stufiing goose or domestic ducks. 

HOMINY CROQUETTES 

Shape into balls one quart of well cooked, highly 
seasoned granulated hominy. Roll in cracker crumbs, 
dip in egg, slightly beaten and diluted with two table- 
spoons cold water, then again in cracker crumbs. Fry 
in deep fat. Drain on brown paper and serve as a vege- 
table with Cheese Sauce; or sweeten the mixture to 
taste, flavor with grated lemon peel, shape, crumb and 
fry; serve as dessert with maple syrup. 

ggTifMnn MELK. AND BITTTER SUBSTITTTTB MAT BE USED Hff ALL 
RECIPES EXCEPT THOSE CALLING FOR CREAM. 

37 



HOMmr AND HORSE-RADISH CROQUETTES 

yi cup granulated hominy 2 tablespoons butter or butter 

H cup boiling water substitute 

H teaspoon salt 3 H tablespoons grated horse- 

H cup scalded milk radish 

1 tablespoon grated onion or 
chopped chives 

PROCESS: Cook hominy with water in a double 
boiler until water is absorbed; add salt and milk and 
continue cooking until hominy is soft. Add butter, 
hprse-radish and onion. Spread mixture on a plate. 
When cool, shape in balls, roll in crumbs, egg and crumbs 
and fry in deep, hot fat. Drain on brown paper and serve 
with roast pork, baked ham, pork tenderloin, etc. 



HOMmr BALLS 

(Serve as a Vegetable) 

1 quart boiled granulated hominy H tablespoon grated onion 
H cup grated cheese 1 teaspoon finely chopped 

Egg and crumbs parsley 

PROCESS: Add cheese, onion and parsley to hot, 
well seasoned hominy, cool and shape into balls the size 
of a small lemon, roll in fine crumbs, egg and crumbs 
and fry in deep hot fat. Drain on soft, brown paper and 
serve with roast pork, lamb, etc. 



fiTTifM^n HILK AND BUTTER SUBSTITUTB MAT BB USED Of ALL 
RECIPES EXCEPT THOSE CALLINO FOR CREAM. 

38 



HOMmr WITH TOMATOES 

2 cups canned hulled com or 2 tablespoons flour 

cooked pearl hominy }i teaspoon salt 

1 cup thick tomato pulp ^ teaspoon pepper 

2 tablespoons bacon fat or butter Fine buttered cracker crumbs 

PROCESS: Melt fat in a sauce-pan, add flour and 
stir until well blended; add strained tomato pulp, salt 
and pepper. Add hulled com mixed well and turn into 
a buttered baking dish. Cover with prepared cracker 
crumbs and bake thirty minutes in a hot oven. One tea- 
spoon of onion juice may be added to the tomato mixture 
before combining with com. Serve in place of potatoes. 



PEARL HOMmr WITH MINCED HAM 

2 cups boiled or steamed hominy 1 cup skimmed milk 
H cup finely minced left-over H teaspoon salt 

ham H teaspoon pepper 

2 tablespoons ham fat H tablespoon finely chopped 

1 H tablespoons flour parsley 

Paprika 

PROCESS: Cook pearl hominy as directed on Page 
13. Measure the left-over hominy and mix thoroughly 
with minced ham. Prepare a white sauce with remaining 
ingredients (except paprika). Add hominy mixture, 
place on range and bring to boiling point; stir until 
heated through; then turn into a warm serving dish and 
sprinkle with paprika. Serve at breakfast, luncheon or 
supper. 



SCMMSD MILK AND BUTTBR SDBSTITUTB MAT BB USED IN ALL 
RBCIPBS BZCBPT THOSE CALLING FOB CBBAM. 

39 



SAMP AU 6RATIN 

Blanch one cup of Baltimore samp in boiling water 
ten minutes, drain and cover with fresh boiling water. 
Heat to the boiling point and cook fifteen minutes, 
stirring occasionally. Cover and place vessel on a thick 
asbestos mat and continue cooking very slowly until 
samp is soft; from eight to ten hours. (This may be 
cooked over night in a fireless cooker.) Make a White 
Sauce No. 2, adding one-fourth teaspoon paprika and 
one tablespoon finely chopped chives or grated onion to 
sauce. To the sauce add one and one-half cup of the 
prepared samp and two-thirds cup of grated cheese. 
Turn mixture into a buttered baking dish and sprinkle 
top thickly with buttered and seasoned cracker crumbs. 
Bake in the oven until mixture is heated throughout 
and crumbs are browned. Serve as main dish at luncheon 
or supper or it may supply a shortage in meat at diimer. 



HOMINT PUFF 

1 cup cold boiled hominy 2 eggs 

1 cup white com meal 1 teaspoon salt 

2 tablespoons butter or 1 tablespoon baking powder 
butterine 1 y^ cups milk 

PROCESS: Mix hominy with com meal, then sift 
in salt and baking powder. Add yolks of eggs beaten 
until thick and lemon tinted and melted butter. Add 
milk gradually while stirring constantly, then fold in 
the stifl3y beaten whites of eggs. Turn mixture into a 
well greased baking dish and bake slowly for one-half 
hour. Serve with roast pork, lamb or beef. 



SKpfMBD MOK AND BUTTER SUBSTITUTB MAT BB USBD IN ALL 
RECIPES EXCEPT THOSE CALUNO FOR CREAM. 

40 



HOMINT BOTTLETTES 

3 cups water H teaspoon white pepper 

1 teaspoon salt H teaspoon finely chopped 
H cup granulated hominy parsley 

1 teaspoon onion juice H teaspoon Poultry Seasoning 

1 tablespoon melted butter 

PROCESS: Put water in top vessel of double boiler, 
bring to boiling point, season with salt and add hominy 
slowly so as not to stop water from boiling, stirring con- 
stantly. Cook over a low fire five minutes, continue 
stirring. Remove to lower part of boiler and cook over 
boiling water three hours or longer. Remove from range, 
add seasonings in the order given, mix thoroughly; 
spread on a plate to cool. Then with the hands shape in 
balls the size of an egg, roll in fine cracker crumbs, then 
in egg (diluted with two tablespoons cold water), again 
in crumbs and fry in deep, hot fat. Serve in place of 
potatoes. 

THIN WHITE SAUCE 

2 tablespoons butter }i teaspoon salt 

1 ^ tablespoons flour Few grains pepper 

1 cup hot milk 

PROCESS: Melt the butter in a saucepan; add 
flour mixed with the seasonings; let cook one minute; 
stir to a smooth paste. Then add milk gradually and 
beat with gem whip until smooth and glossy. 



SKTMMKD MILK AND BUTTBR SUBSTTrUTS MAT BB USBD IN AIL 
BBCIPBS BXCBPT THOSE CALUNO FOR CSBAM. 

41 



GNOCCm A LA ROMAINE 

3 tablespoons com meal 2 tablespoons butter or 

yi cup cornstarch butter substitute 

H teaspoon salt Yolks 2 eggs 

}i teaspoon paprika H cup grated cheese 

2 cups milk Few grains cayenne and salt 

PROCESS: Mix com meal, corn-starch, salt and 
paprika. Add enough of the milk to make of a smooth 
consistency. Scald remaining milk in a double boiler; 
then stir in the first mixture slowly, beating constantly 
until mixture thickens. Cover and cook two hours, 
stirring occasionally. Remove from range. Cream but- 
ter, add egg yolks slightly beaten; add to cooked mixture 
and beat thoroughly. Stir in cheese and return to range 
and continue cooking until cheese is melted and mixture 
is puffed slightly. Turn into a buttered pah to the depth 
of one inch. Chill. Cut into squares and arrange in a 
shallow baking dish. Sprinkle with grated cheese, 
seasoned with cayenne and salt. Place in a moderate 
oven until heated through and cheese is melted. 

CASSEROLE OF HOMINT WITH MEAT 

Finely chop cooked pearl hominy and slightly moisten 
with a little White Sauce. Line a quart brick-shaped 
mold or bread pan to the depth of one inch thickness 
with the prepared hominy, leaving a cavity in the center. 
Mince any land of left-over meat or fowl; there should 
be one cup. Moisten meat with a little Brown Sauce, 
White Sauce or Tomato Sauce. Fill cavity with meat 
and cover with more hominy. Cover mold or if a bread 
pan is used cover with a buttered paper. Cook in a 
steamer thirty-five minutes. Unmold on warm serving 
platter and pour around Brown or Tomato Sauce. 

fiXTMMKT) MILK AND BUTTER SUBSnTUTB MAT BB USBD Of ALL 
RBCIPBS BZCBPT THOSB CALLING FOR CRBAM. 

42 



GNOCCm AU GRATIN 

1 }i cups fine hominy or com meal 1 cup grated cheese 

1 cup milk yi cup cracker crumbs 

1 H tablespoons butter 3 tablespoons melted butter 

Thin white sauce (about 1 H cups) H teaspoon salt 

Few grains cayenne 

PROCESS: Scald milk in double boiler, add butter 
and salt and sift in slowly the hominy or corn meal, 
stirring constantly. Cook until mixture becomes a stiff 
paste. Mold mixture into quennelles with two teaspoons, 
poach these in simmering chicken stock or boiling, 
salted water. Drain and arrange them in a shallow 
baking dish in a layer, cover with white sauce and a thin 
layer of grated cheese, a few grains cayenne. Continue 
with layers until all materials are used, having a thin 
layer of sauce and cheese on top. Butter the cracker 
crumbs and sprinkle over top. Bake in hot oven fifteen 
minutes. Bechamel Sauce may be used in place of 
white sauce, making this dish still more delicious. 



HOMINT CRUSTS 

1 cup cooked fine hominy 1 egg well beaten 

2 tablespoons sugar Flour, salt and milk 

PROCESS : Cook hominy in double boiler in enough 
ntiilk to make a thin batter and until hominy is soft. 
Season with salt and when lukewarm add' egg beaten 
until thick and lemon tinted and sufficient white flour 
to hold mixture together. Spread in a well greased, 
shallow pan to one-half inch thickness. Bake in a hot 
oven until brown and crisp. Split and spread with butter. 
Serve with maple syrup. 



SgTMMRD lOLK AND BUTTER SUBSTITUTK MAT BB USED Df ALL 
BBCIFB8 EXCEPT THOSE CALUNO FOR CREAM. 

43 



BECHAMEL SAUCE 

4 tablespoons butter 1 cup highly seasoned chicken 

4 tablespoons flour stock 

Salt and pepper 1 cup hot cream 

Nutmeg 

PROCESS: Melt butter in saucepan; add flour; 
stir to a smooth paste. Cook one minute. Add stock, 
beating constantly; add cream and a slight grating of 
nutmeg. Beat. 



TOMATO SAUCE 

4 tablespoons butter Bit of bay leaf 

5 H tablespoons flour Sprig of parsley 
1 H cups brown stock 4 cloves 

1 yi cups stewed and strained H teaspoon salt 

tomatoes ^ teaspoon pepper 

1 slice carrot Few grains cayenne 
1 slice onion 

PROCESS: Brown butter in saucepan; add flour; 
stir to a smooth paste and continue browning. Add 
seasonings, pour on gradually, brown stock, stirring 
constantly. Add tomato pulp, stir briskly and let simmer 
fifteen minutes. Strain and serve. 



SKIMMBD MUK and BUTTER SUBSTTTUTB MAT BE USED IN ALL 
RECIPES EXCEPT THOSE CAIXINO FOR CREAM. 

44 



CHEESE SAUCE 

2 tablespoons butter }i teaspoon white pepper 

1 ^ tablespoons flour Few grains cayenne 

1 cup scalded milk ^ cup cheese cut in small 

yi teaspoon salt pieces 

PROCESS: Melt butter in a saucepan; add flour 
mixed with seasonings. Stir to a smooth paste. Add 
milk gradually, stirring constantly until smooth and 
glossy. Add cheese when melted; pour over hot hulled 
com or serve with hominy croquettes. 



SUBSTITUTES TO USE FOR 
"BUTTERING" CRUMBS 

Prepare the crumbs in the usual way i. e., by grating, 
rolling as in the case of crackers or rubbing "fresh*' 
stale bread crumbs through a wire croquette basket or 
passing stale bread through a meat chopper. For fine 
crumbs, sifting the crumbs should follow the first part 
of the process. To one cup of prepared crumbs, melt 
four tablespoons of oleomargarine, strained bacon fat 
or sausage fat. Add crumbs and stir until well blended. 
The two latter fats will impart a savory flavor to all such 
meat and vegetable mixtures as are made up into cro- 
quettes, also to many of the au gratin dishes. Try them. 



8KTMMKD MILK AND BUTTER SUBSTTTUTB MAT BB USED IN ALL 
RECIPES EXCEPT THOSE CALLINO FOR CREAM. 

45 



CHAPTER III. 



QXnCK WAR BREAD 



• 

1 H cups stale bread crumbs 2 cups corn meal 

8 H cups cold water 2 3^ cups rye meal 

H cup molasses 1 tablespoon soda 

H tablespoon salt ^ cup shredded raisins 

PROCESS : Soak bread crumbs in two cups of water 
over night. In tihe morning rub through a colander, 
(without draining) add molasses and dry ingredients 
sifted together, mix with raisins, add remaining water 
and beat thoroughly. Turn into well buttered, brown 
bread molds, filling them two-thirds full. Adjust 
covers and tie on securely. Steam two hours. 



BOSTON BROWN BREAD 

1 cup com meal 1 teaspoon salt 

1 cup rye meal H cup N. O. molasses 

1 cup Graham flour 2 cups sour milk or 1 ^ cups. 

2 H teaspoons soda of sweet milk or water 

PROCESS: Sift together the dry ingredients, add 
the molasses and gradually milk, beat thoroughly, turn 
into well buttered molds and steam three and one-half 
hours. The covers should be buttered before placing 
them on molds and tied down with a string if they do 
not lock. Remove covers and set molds in oven to dry 
off top of loaves. 



fiyTMMKD MILK AND BUTTER SUBSTTTUTB MAT BE USBD IN AIL 
RBCIPBS BZCEPT THOSB CALLINO FOR CRBAM. 

46 



BOSTON BROWN BREAD WITH FRITIT 

Follow recipe for Boston Brown Bread, adding three* 
fourths cup seeded and shredded raisins, add these to 
the dry ingredients, then continue as in foregoing recipe. 

STEAMED BROWN BREAD 

2 H cups com meal 2 H cups graham flour 

1 teaspoon salt 1 cup molasses 

H tablespoon soda 2 }i cups rich sour milk 

PROCESS: Sift together the first three ingredients; 
add unsifted graham flour. Add molasses to sour milk 
and stir into first mixture. Mix well and beat two min- 
utes. Turn mixture into well buttered brown bread 
molds to two-thirds their depth and steam three and one- 
half hours. The water must continue to boil throughout 
the entire period of steaming. This mixture may be 
baked in a well buttered, small iron bread pan. 

STEAMED CORN MEAL 
(Raisin or Date Bread) 

1 H cups com meal 1 teaspoon salt 

1 cup rye meal H cup molasses 

yi cup flour 1 cup water 

1 H teaspoons soda 1 cup dates stoned and cut in 

1 cup milk small pieces or seeded raisina 

cut in halves 

PROCESS: Sift together the dry ingredients; add 
dates or raisins, then add molasses, water and milk 
gradually while stirring constantly until well mixed. 
Turn into well greased, brown bread molds to two- 
thirds their depth and steam three hours. 



«"i>gT^<ntn MILK AND BUTTBR SUBSTITUTB MAT BE USED IN ALL 
RECIPES EXCEPT THOSE CALLINO FOR CREAM. 

47 



JOLLY JOE 

2 cups corn meal 2 cups sour milk 

2 cups flour 2 H teaspoons soda 

1 teaspoon salt 2 tablespoons hot water 
1 cup N. O. molasses 

PROCESS: Sift together com meal, iBour and salt; 
add molasses and sour milk, beat thoroughly, then add 
soda dissolved in hot water. Turn into a well buttered 
mold, adjust cover, tie securely and steam three to four 
hours. Two-thirds cup of seeded and shredded raisins 
may be added to this mixture if fruit brown bread is liked. 



CORN MEAL DATE BREAD 
(Quick Bread) 

H cup com meal H cup molasses 

H cup white flour 1 cup dates stoned and cut in 
1 cup graham flour pieces 

}i tablespoon salt ^ cup English walnut meats 
1 H tablespoon baking powder broken in pieces 

H teaspoon soda Grated rind ^ lemon 

1 egg well beaten 1 tablespoon melted lard 

1 H cups skimmed milk 

PROCESS: Sift together the dry ingredients. Add 
the dates and wsdnut meats. Add molasses, shortening 
and milk gradually, stirring constantly. Add egg beaten 
until thick and lemon tinted and grated lemon rind. 
Beat until ingredients are well blended. Turn into a 
well greased, brick-shaped bread pan, cover. Let stand 
twenty minutes. Bake in a "bread oven " fifty minutes. 



SUMMED MOK AND BUTTER SUB j STI T U T E MAT BE USED IN ALL 
RECIPES EXCEPT THOSE CALLING FOR CREAM. 

48 



FRIED CORN MEAL MUFFINS 

1 cup corn meal H cup flour 

2 cups scalded milk 1 tablespoon sugar 
2 eggs unbeaten 1 teaspoon salt 

1 tablespoon bacon fat 

PROCESS : Pour scalded milk over com meal ; mix 
well and let stand until cold. Add eggs one at a time and 
stir thoroughly between each addition; Sift together 
flour, sugar and salt. Add to first mixture and beat one 
minute. Drop by tablespoonfuls into deep, hot fat, fry 
and turn as doughnuts until well browned. The fat 
should not be too hot when muffins are dropped in ; after 
the first two minutes increase the heat and finish frying. 
Drain on brown paper; split, butter and serve at once. 



INDIAN MEAL AND RTE MEAL BREAD 

4 cups com meal H cup molasses 

Boiling water H teaspoon soda 

2 cups rye meal or flour yi yeast-cake dissolved in 

1 tablespoon salt H cup lukewarm water 

Warm water 

PROCESS: Pour boiling water over com meal and 
rye meal mixed together, to moisten but not to form a 
batter, stirring constantly. Add molasses, salt and soda 
sifted together. When mixture is lukewarm add dis- 
solved yeast-cake and stir until well blended; then add 
enough lukewarm water to make a batter as stiff as can 
be beaten; cover; set in a warm place to rise over night. 
In the morning turn into a well greased, deep, agate pan; 
smooth the top with the hand dipped in water, cover and 
set to rise for half an hour. Bake in a slow oven two and 
one-half hours; cover the first hour of baking with a 

SKIMMED MUK and BUTTER SUBSTmiTB MAT BE USED IN ALL 
RECIPES EXCEPT THOSE CALLING FOR CREAM. 

49 



greased paper to prevent baking too hard on top before 
baking through. This bread was originally baked in an 
iron pot with a cover (what is now called a Dutch oven). 
It was one of the breads of our forefathers and is delicious. 
Try it. 

INDIAN MEAL BREAD 
(With Yeast) 

1 cup corn meal 2 tablespoons sugar 

1 cup scalded milk 1 tablespoon salt 

1 cup boiling water H yeast-cake dissolved in H 

2 tablespoons shortening cup lukewarm water 
Rye or white flour 

PROCESS: Put com meal into a mixing bowl, pour 
over scalded milk mixed with boiling water; add shorten- 
ing, sugar and salt. When mixture is lukewarm add 
dissolved yeast-cake and flour enough to make a stiff 
dough (from five to six cups). Knead until smooth and 
elastic. Cover and set in a warm place (out of a draft) 
over night. In the morning turn on a floured board, 
knead slightly and shape into loaves, let rise. Bake one 
hour. 

RAISED BROWN BREAD NO. 2 

2 cups boiling water 2 cups rye meal or flour 

2 cups com meal H cup brown sugar or molasses 

H yeast cake dissolved in ^ 2 teaspoons salt 

cup lukewarm water H teaspoon soda 

PROCESS: Pour boiling water over com meal. 
When lukewarm add yeast-cake dissolved in half cup 
lukewarm water; add remaining ingredients in the order 
given. Beat thoroughly, cover closely and set in a warm 
place to rise over night. In the morning beat, pour into 
buttered bread pans and bake in a moderate oven from 
one and one-half to two hours. This bread is best baked 
in an iron brown-bread pan or a bowl-shaped crock. 

SKTMMKD lOLK AND BUTTER SUBSTTrDTB MAT BB USED IN ALL 
KSCIPBS EXCEPT THOSE CALLING FOR CREAM. 

50 



CORN MEAL AND GRAHAM BREAD 

1 cup com meal 1 tablespoon salt 

1 cup boiling water H cup brown sugar or molasaet 

1 cup scalded milk H compressed yeast cake 

2 tablespoons lard H cup lukewarm water 
Graham flour 

PROCESS: Pour boiling water over com meal; 
stir until well nuxed, add milk and lard; when lukewarm 
add salty molasses and yeast-cake, dissolved in luke- 
warm water. Add about four cups of graham flour, a 
little more may be needed, beat thoroughly, cover, set 
to rise in a warm place until double in bulk ; stir down and 
beat again. Turn into well greased brick-shaped bread 
pans, cover and again set to rise. When light bake one 
hour, having the initial heat greatest for the first fifteen 
minutes. 

RAISED CORN MUFFINS 

1 cup scalded milk }i compressed yeast cake dis- 
H cup lard solved in H cup lukewarm 
H cup sugar water 

2 teaspoons salt 1 }i cups com meal 

1 H cups flour 

PROCESS: To scalded milk add shortening, sugar 
and salt. When lukewarm add dissolved yeast-cake, 
com meal and flour, beat vigorously and fill to half their 
depth, warm well greased iron gem cups. Let rise to 
double their bulk, then bake thirty minutes in a hot oven. 



SKTMintP MILK AND BUTTER 8UBSTITUTB HAT BB USED IN ALL 
RBCIPBS BZCEPT THOSE CALLINO FOR CREAM. 

51 



RAISED CORN FLOXTR PARKER HOUSE ROLLS 

1 H cups corn flour 1 cup white flour 

2 yi cups scalded milk H cup shortening 

1 yeast cake dissolved in ^ 2 tablespoons sugar 

cup lukewarm water 1 tablespoon salt 
White 1 egg 

PROCESS: Pour scalded milk slowly over com 
flour, stirring constantly, cover and let stand until luke- 
warm; add dissolved yeast-caike and gradually one cup 
white flour stirring constantly until sponge is smooth. 
Cover, set in a warm place until light, foamy and full of 
l^ubbles. Add remaining ingredients (except egg white). 
Beat vigorously then add white of egg beaten until stiff. 
Add sufficient white flour to handle. Knead until smooth 
and elastic. Cover and set to rise. When double in bulk 
turn on a floured board, knead slightly and roll into a 
sheet one-half inch in thickness; brush over lightly with 
melted butter, shape with biscuit cutter, make a crease 
across each round with the floured handle of a small 
wooden spoon; fold, press edges lightly and bake in a 
hot oven twenty-five minutes. Com flour is finely 
bolted com meal and should be used for all raised com 
mixtures and sweet cakes, cookies, etc., made from com 
products. 



SKIMMED MILK AND BUTTER SUBSTTTUTB MAT BE USED IN ALL 
RECIPES EXCEPT THOSE CALLINO FOR CREAM. 

52 



SOUTH CAROLINA SPOON CORN BREAD 

2 cups fine hominy 2 cups milk 

6 cups boiling salted water 2 cups com meal 

2 tablespoons strained bacon fat Salt 

3 eggs Milk 

PROCESS: Add hominy slowly to boiling salted 
water until mixture thickens; then cook over boiling 
water until soft (about one hour). Remove from range 
and while hot add bacon fat, eggs beaten until thick and 
lemon tinted; add milk and slowly com meal; add salt 
if necessary. The mixture should be the consistency of 
boiled custard. If too thick and dry add more milk. 
Turn into a well buttered baking dish and cook in the 
oven until mixture is firm. Serve at once in the dish in 
which it was baked. 



SOUTHERN CORN BREAD 

1 H cups cold cooked rice or 1 teaspoon salt 

granulated hominy yi cup butter 

2 cups milk 2 eggs 
1 cup com meal 

PROCESS: Scald two-thirds of the milk in a double 
boiler; then stir in the rice or hominy, pour over dry 
corn meal, butter and salt, blend well. Add eggs well 
beaten and remainder of milk. The batter must be very 
thin. Bake immediately in shallow, well buttered tins 
in a quick oven. 



SKIMMBD lOLK AND BUTTBR SUBSTITUTB MAT BB USED IN ALL 
RBCIPES BZCEPT THOSB CALLINO FOR CRBAM. 

53 



CREAM CORN BREAD 

fi cup com meal 1 teaspoon salt 

1 cup white flour 1 cup thick cream 

4 teaspoons baking powder 2 eggs 

4 tablespoons sugar 1 teaspoon butter or other fat 

PROCESS: Mix and sift the dry ingredient99 add 
cream gradually stirring constantly, add melted shorten- 
ing and ^gs beaten until thick and lemon tinted. Pour 
mixture into a well greased* shallow pan and bake 
twenty-five minutes in a hot oven. If not brown on top, 
place some distance from the gas flame in the broiling 
oven until delicately browned. Care should be taken 
diat cake does not bum during the browning pnx^ess. 



CORN BREAD 
(New Orleans Recipe) 

2 cups white com meal 2 tablespoons melted butter 

H cup flour 2 cups sour milk 

yi cup molasses or sugar 1 teaspoon soda 

1 teaspoon salt 2 ^gs 

PROCESS: Sift together com meal, flour and salt, 
add molasses and butter, and gradually sour milk while 
stirring constantly; add eggs beaten very light, then 
soda dissolved in two tablespoons hot water. Beat mix* 
ture thoroughly; bake slowly forty-five minutes in a 
well greased, shallow pan. 



mniffMKD lOLC AND BUTTER SUBSTITDTB MAT BB USBD VX ALL 
RECIPES EXCEPT THOSE CALLINO FOR CREAM. 

54 



SWEET CORN BREAD 

1 fi cups flour 1 teaspoon salt 

H cup corn meal 2 eggs 

H cup melted butter 1 cup milk 

H cup sugar 4 teaspoons baking powder 

PROCESS: Sift together flour, com meal, salt and 
baking powder* Add sugar and melted butter; add milk 
gradually while stirring constantly* Beat the eggs 
until thick and lemon tinted; then fold carefully into 
first mixture. Turn into well buttered, shallow pan; 
bake twenty-five minutes in a hot oven. This mixture 
may be baked in hissing hot iron gem cups. 



OLD FASHION CORN BREAD 
(Southern Recipe) 

1 H cups com meal (hand ground) 2 tablespoons lard 

1 cup white flour 1 egg 

1 teaspoon salt 2 cups sour milk 

2 tablespoons sugar 1 teaspoon soda 

PROCESS: Mix thoroughly com meal, flour, salt 
and sugar. Rub in lard with tips of fingers. Add egg 
unbeaten and one and one-half cups sour milk; dissolve 
soda in remaining half cup of milk and stir mixture until 
ingredients are well blended; then beat (with the hand) 
six minutes. Turn into a well greased, shallow agate pan 
and bake thirty minutes in a fairly hot oven. Brown 
under the gas flame in broiling oven. This com meal is 
coarse and should not be sifted. It is ground in a hand 
mill and contains all the good of the kernels. 



ggTMM»n MILK AND BUTTER SUBSTITDTB HAT BB I7SBD m AIL 
BBCIFBS EXCEPT THOSE CALLINO FOR CREAM. 

55 



CRACKLING CORN BREAD 

2 cups scalded milk 2 teaspoons salt 

1 cup com meal 1 cup cracklings 

PROCESS: Pour scalded milk gradually over com 
meal mixed with salt, stirring constantly; add crack- 
lings and mix thoroughly. Turn into a well greased, 
shallow pan to the depth of one-half inch. Bake in a 
moderate oven until crisp and brown. Split and spread 
with butter. Serve hot. Cracklings are the residue 
from the trying out of lard. They are extensively used 
as food by the colored people of the South and by the 
Mexicans. Cracklings serve the purpose of shortening 
and as such have quite a food value. The prejudice 
against their use is chiefly because of their cheapness, as 
well as the erroneous idea that prevails among the 
people of the North especially, that " cracklings is refuse." 

ENOXVILLE CORN BREAD 

1 H cups yellow com meal H teaspoon salt 

H cup flour 4 tablespoons sugar 

1 cup rich sour milk 2 cups sweet milk 

H teaspoon soda (generous) 2 eggs 
1 }i tablespoons butter 

PROCESS: Sift together com meal and flour. Add 
to sour milk soda, salt, sugar and eggs beaten until thick 
and lemon tinted and one cup of sweet milk. Add to 
com meal slowly while stirring constantly. Melt butter 
in a No. 8 cast iron spider; tum in mixture, then slowly 
pour over remaining cup sweet milk. Bake in a hot oven 
thirty-five minutes. Reduce heat, if browning too fast. 
Cut like a pie and serve hot with butter and jam or maple 
syrup. This is a most delicious com bread and is known 
in Knoxville as Mollie White's com bread. Mollie 
White was a " famed " colored cook of that city. 

SgTMMRD MILC AND .BUTTER SUBSTTfUTB MAT BB USED IN ALL 
RECIPES EXCEPT THOSE CALLING FOR CREAM. 

56 



SPIDER CORN CAKE 

H cup corn meal H cup sweet milk 

H cup flour 1 egg well beaten 

2 tablespoons sugar }i cup sour milk 

1 teaspoon salt 2 tablespoons melted butter 

1 teaspoon soda H cup sweet milk 

PROCESS : Sift together com meal, flour, sugar, salt 
and soda. Add half cup sweet milk and egg well beaten. 
Add sour milk and butter. Mix thoroughly and pour 
into well buttered hot spider. Pour half cup sweet milk 
carefully over the top of com cake. Cook ten minutes 
on top of range and twenty tninutes in the oven. 



ALABAMA PUMPKIN CORN BREAD 

1 H cups com meal 1 tablespoon hot water 

H cup graham flour 2 cups canned pumpkin 

1 teaspoon salt H teaspoon soda 

3 teaspoons baking powder 1 egg 

H cup soft brown sugar 1 cup milk 

PROCESS: Sift together corn meal, salt, baking 
powder; add graham flour unsifted. Add sugar and hot 
water to pumpkin, sift in soda and add egg beaten until 
thick and lemon tinted. Add pumpkin mixture to dry 
ingredients and beat until thoroughly blended, add milk 
and continue beating. Turn into a buttered, shallow 
pan and bake thirty minutes in a hot oven. This is an 
old southern recipe and when made by the "old colored 
mammy" who originated the bread she "cooked down" 
her own pumpkin and used white flour instead of graham 
flour. 



8KIMMBD MILK AHD BUTTER STJBSTTrUTB MAT BB USED DT ALL 
RECIPBS EXCEPT THOSE CALLING FOR CREAM. 

67 



WHITB CORN MEAL BREAD 

4 tablespoons butter 1 yi cups flour 

H cup sugar 4 teaspoons baking powder 

1 H cups milk 1 teaspoon salt 

1 H cups white com meal Whites 3 egsfl 

PROCESS: Cream the butter, add the sugar 
gradually, sift the dry ingredients together twice and add 
to first mixture alternately with milk. Beat whites of 
^gs until stiff ; cut and fold them into mixture. Bake in 
shallow, buttered pan twenty-five minutes. 

MOLASSES CORN BREAD 

1 cup com meal K cup molasses 

H cup flour H cup skinmied milk 

IH tablespoons baking powder legg 

1 teaspoon salt 2 tablespoons sausage or baoon 

fat 

PROCESS: Sift together dry ingredients; add 
molasses and milk mixed together, stirring constantly. 
Beat egg until thick and lemon tinted add to first 
mixture. Add fat and beat two minutes. BakeinaweU 
greased, shallow pan in a hot oven twenty-five minutes. 

THIN CORN BREAD 

H cup yellow com meal H teaspoon salt 

1 K cups flour 1 cup thin cream 

2 tablespoons sugar 1 egg well beaten 

5 teaspoons baking powder 2 tablespoons melted butter 

PROCESS: Mix and sift the dry ingredients; add 
cream, beaten egg and butter, beat thoroughly; bake 
in a well greased, shallow pan, in a hot oven, twenty-five 
minutes; five minutes before removing from oven brush 
over with milk to give it a richer color. Serve with baked 
or broiled fish. 



ggn^ixngTfc MILK AHD BUTTBR SUBS T H'UTK ICAT BB USBD Dff ALL 
SBCIPBS BXCBPT THOSB GALLQIO FOR CRBAIC 

58 



EGOLESS CORN BREAD NO. 1 

% cup com meal H teaspoon salt 

H cup flour H teaspoon soda 

2 tablespoons sugar 1 H cups sour milk 

1 yi tablespoons bacon or sausage fat 

PROCESS: Sift together the first five ingredients; 
add sour milk slowly, stirring constantly until batter is 
smooth. Add bacon fat, beat one minute, then turn into 
a well greased, square, shallow pan eight inches square 
and bake in a hot oven twenty-five minutes. Brown over 
top by placing pan in broiling oven under gas flame. 
Broiler should be placed on bottom of oven. 



EGOLESS CORN BREAD NO. 2 

1 cup com meal 1 teaspoon salt 
H cup flour 1 teaspoon soda 

2 tablespoons sugar 1 H cups sour milk or butter- 
2 tablespoons shortening milk 

PROCESS : Sift together the dry ingredients. Add 
milk gradually stirring constantly. Beat mixture one 
minute. Turn into a well greased, shallow pan and bake 
twenty-five minutes in a hot oven. If not brown on top 
place some distance from the gas flame in broiling oven 
for two minutes until evenly browned. 



SKTMintP USLK AUD butter SUBSTITUTB ICAT BB USED IN ALL 
KBOPBS EZCBPT THOSB CALUNO FOR CRBAM. 

59 



SPONGE CORN CAKE NO. 1 

H cup com meal 2 egg yokes beaten very light 

1 cup flour 1 tablespoon melted butter 

H teaspoon salt 1 cup rich sour milk 

H teaspoon soda White 1 egg 
6 tablespoons sugar 

PROCESS: Sift the dry ingredients together, add 
butter, yolks well beaten and sour milk; lastly fold in 
the white of egg beaten until stiff. Bake in well greased, 
shallow pan in hot oven thirty minutes. 

SPONGE CAKE NO. 2 

1 cup corn meal 1 tablespoon melted butter 

H cup flour 4 tablespoons sugar 

H teaspoon salt 2 egg yolks 

H teaspoon soda 1 white of egg 

1 teaspoon cream tartar 1 yi cups sweet milk 

PROCESS: Sift the dry ingredients together, add 
butter, egg yolks well beaten, and milk; mix well 
and lastly cut and fold in the white of egg beaten until 
stiff. Bake in well greased, brick-shaped bread pan, 
thirty minutes. 

OLD VIRGINIA BATTER BREAD 

2 cups corn meal ^ cup sugar 
4 cups scalded milk 3 eggs 

1 teaspoon salt 

PROCESS: Stir com meal into scalded milk and 
cook to a mush, add salt and sugsir, cool; add yolks 
of eggs beaten very light; then cut and fold in whites 
beaten until stiff, melt two tablespoons butter or lard 
in baking pan, turn in mixture and bake forty-five 
minutes in a bread oven (360 to 400 degrees F.). 

snunMim MILK AND BUTTER SUBSTITDTB MAT BB USED IN ALL 
RBCIPBS BZCBPT THOSB CALLING FOR CRBAM. 

60 



CORN PONE 

To two cups corn meal (water milled) add one and 
one-half teaspoons salt and one tablespoon bacon fat 
or melted lard and sufficient scalded milk or equal parts 
of milk and boiling water to make a mixture that can be 
molded with the hands into oblong cakes six inches long, 
three inches wide and one inch thick in center; the pones 
should taper at the ends and a trifle thinner. Befofe 
molding, the mixture (when cool enough) should be 
thoroughly blended with the hand; then shaped, placed 
on a hot, well greased tin baking sheet, brushed over 
with melted fat or milk and baked twenty-five minutes 
in a hot oven. When done, split each pone, spread with 
butter and lay a thin slice of broiled bacon between; 
fold again and serve immediately. 



MAMMY'S PUMPKIN PONE 

2 cups com meal 1 teaspoon salt 

2 cups cooked and strained or yi cup sugar 

canned pumpkin 2 tablespoons sausage fat 

PROCESS: Mix ingredients in the order given. 
Beat vigorously until thoroughly blended, then slightly 
butter the hands and mold the mixture into pones almost 
an inch thick in the middle. Place on a well greased 
baking sheet and bake thirty minutes in a hot oven. 
Split, butter them, and serve at once. 



SKIMMED MILK AND BUTTER SUBSTmTTB MAT BE USED IN ALL 
RECIPES EXCEPT THOSE CALLING FOR CREAM. 

61 



KENTUCKT SPOON CORN BREAD 

1 cup com meal 1 teaspoon salt 

2 cups cold cooked rice 2 eggs well beaten 

1 tablespoon butter 1 teaspoon baking powder 

1 H cups milk 

PROCESS: Wet com meal with boiling water and 
stir until the consistency of mush, add rice, butter and 
salt; let stand over night or several hours during the 
day. Then add eggs and milk; sift baking powder into 
mixture. Beat well and pour into a well buttered, 
shallow pudding dish; bake thirty-five minutes in a 
moderate oven. Dot over with small bits of butter when 
almost done. Serve with a spoon from dish in which it 
was baked. 



RICE AND CORN MEAL SPOON BREAD 

H cup rice 3 eggs 

2 H cups boiling water H cup skimmed milk 

H teaspoon salt 1 K cups white com meal 

3 tablespoons butter or 3 teaspoons baking powder 
butterine Cheese sauce 

PROCESS: Blanch rice; add to boiling water; add 
salt and cook five minutes, stirring constantly. Then 
cook in double boiler until rice is tender. Remove from 
range, add butter, eggs beaten until thick and lemon 
tinted; add milk gradually with com meal sifted with 
baking powder. Beat mixture thoroughly and turn into a 
well greased baking dish and bake in a moderate oven 
forty-five minutes. Serve from the baking dish with a 
spoon. Cheese sauce may be served with this bread 
and will supply the needs of a Meatless Day for dinner. 



SKIMMED MELK AND BUTTBR SUBSTmTTB MAT BB USED IN ALL 
RBOPBS BXCBPT THOSE CAIXINO FOR CREAM. 

62 



VIRGINIA SPOON CORN BREAD 

}i cup granulated cooked hominy 3 eggs 

1 teaspoon salt 1 H cups milk 

2 tablespoons lard 2 cups com meal 

2 tablespoons butter 2 teaspoons baking powder 

PROCESS: Add shortening and salt to hot hominy, 
add oom meal sifted with baking powder, alternately 
with milk, mix well. Beat eggs until thick' and lemon 
tinted; add to first mixture and beat vigorously. Pour 
into a well buttered pudding dish, bake in hot oven 
forty-five minutes. Serve in baking dish with spoon. 



CUSTARD CORN CAKE 

H cup corn meal 2 tablespoons sugar 

H cup bread flour 1 cup sour or buttermilk 

H teaspoon salt 2 eggs 

H teaiqxx>n soda 2 tablespoons melted lard or 

H cup sweet milk butter 

PROCESS: Sift together com meal, flour, salt, soda 
and sugar. Add sour milk, gradually stirring constantly; 
add eggs beaten until thick and lemon tinted, continue 
beating until thoroughly blended. Put melted shortening 
into a warm earthen baking dish (one quart capacity). 
Beat batter one minute and turn into dish, pouring the 
sweet milk over top. Bake twenty-five minutes in a hot 
oven. Cut as a pie and serve at once from the dish in 
which it was baked. 



fflnmiMTm imK aivd bittter substitdtb mat bb usbd nr ail 

KBCIFBS BXCBPT THOSB CALLING FOR CREAM. 

63 



APPLE JOHNNT CAKE 

2 cups white or yellow com meal 4 teaspoons baking powder 

2 tablespoons sugar 1 ^ cups milk 

yi teaspoon salt 3 sour apples 

1 teaspoon soda H cup milk (extra) 

1 teaspoon cream of tartar or Cinnamon and sugar 

PROCESS: Sift together the first five ingredients 
in the order given; add milk gradually and beat until 
batter is smooth. Pare, core and thinly slice apples; 
stir them into first mixture. Turn into a well buttered, 
shallow pan; spread evenly and pour over the extra 
half cup of cold milk. Sprinkle top with cinnamon and 
sugar. Bake thirty-five minutes in a hot oven. This 
cake is delicious if made with '' water-milled'' com meal. 
Serve hot as a dessert with sweetened cream or with 
butter as com bread. 



LXTNCHEON JOHNNT CAKE 

Yolks 4 eggs 1 cup flour 

2 tablespoons butter 1 teaspoon salt 

2 cups milk (not skimmed) 2 tablespoons sugar 

2 cups corn meal 4 teaspoons baking powder 

Whites 4 eggs 

PROCESS: Beat yolks until thick and light; add 
milk gradually; stir into meal and flour sifted with salt, 
sugar and baking powder, beat thoroughly. Add butter 
and carefully fold in the whites of eggs beaten until stiflF. 
Turn into a well greased, shallow pan and bake forty 
minutes in a moderate oven. Serve hot with maple 
syrup or orange marmalade for luncheon. With a glass 
of milk or a cup of cocoa the luncheon is complete. 



SKIMMED UJLK. AHD BUTTER SDBSTmTTB MAT BE USED DT ALL 
RECIPES EXCEPT THOSE GALLQIO FOR CREAM. 

64 



BLXTEBERRY CORN BREAD 

1 cup com meal }i teaspoon salt 

1 cup pastry flour 1 egg well beaten 

4 teaspoons baking powder fi cup milk 

1 cup sugar }i cup melted butter 

y^ cup blueberries dredged with a little of the flour 

PROCESS: Sift together the dry ingredients; add 
milk gradually and beaten egg. Add butter and berries. 
Bake in a well buttered, shallow pan or in well greased, 
hot iron muffin cups, twenty-five minutes in a hot oven. 
Serve hot as it is then at its best. 



CORN BREAD WITH CREAMED CLAMS 

1 quart fresh clams White corn bread 

2 cups white sauce (Recipe on Page $8) 
\i pound fat salt pork Butter 

PROCESS: Remove the tough portion from the 
clams and finely chop. Cut salt pork in one-fourth-inch 
dice; try out in a hot frying pan. Drain off some of the 
fat, leaving enough to prevent dams from sticking to 
bottom of pan; add soft and chopped hard part of clams, 
stir until heated through; add white sauce and heat to 
boiling point. Remove at once from fire. Have ready 
a hot white corn bread made from recipe on Page 58. 
Cut com bread in squsu^s, split each squsu-e and spread 
half the squares with butter, cover with part of the clam 
mixture, set the other halves above and pour around or 
over remaining clam mixture. Serve very hot. 



SKIMMED MILK AND BUTTER SUBSTirUTB MAT BE USED IN ALL 
RECIPES EXCEPT THOSE CALLING FOR CREAM. 

65 



CHAPTER IV. 



BOILED GREEN CORN 

Remove the outer husks ; strip back the inner ones. Pick 
out all the silky threads, fold back the husks and cook 
com in boiling, salted water from ten to twenty minutes, 
according to age of com. Add salt last ten minutes of 
cooking. Drain well and serve on platter in napkin, 
folding the corners over the corn. 

GREEN CORN COOKED IN MILE 

Follow recipe for Boiled Green Com, using equal 
parts of skimmed milk and water. Salt the milk and 
water five minutes before removing com. Drain; 
serve in folded napkin. 

ROASTED GREEN CORN 

Remove the husks and all the silk from freshly 
gathered sweet com, preferably Golden Bantam. Brush 
over lightly with melted butter or bacon fat. Arrange 
side by side on the broiler and place some distance from 
the flame in the broiling oven of the gas range. As the 
kernels brown, turn the ears until evenly browned all 
over. Brush again with butter, dredge lightly with salt 
and pepper and serve on a hot platter in the folds of a 
large napkin. 



SKIMMBD MILK AND BUTTBR SUBSTTTUTB MAT BB USBD DT ALL 
RECIPES EXCEPT THOSE CALLING FOR CREAM. 

66 



TO SWEETEN GREEN CORN WHEN BOILING 

When boiling green com on the cobs; to supply the 
natural sweetness lost by evaporation after being pulled 
from the stalk, add two tablespoons of sugar to the 
water in which the corn is cooked and a luscious flavor 
will be developed. Salt should never be added to the 
water in which com is boiled as the salt has a tendency 
to darken and hsirden the kernels. 

STEAMED GREEN CORN ON THE COBS 

For steaming green com on the cobs; if possible have 
the com freshly gathered. Remove the outer husks, 
turn back the inner husks and pick off every thread of 
silk. Turn back the husks in their original place and 
arrange ears in a steamer. Place over a kettle of boiling 
water and steam fifteen minutes (twenty minutes if 
ears are large). Remove from steamer and quickly pull 
off the husks and arrange ears in a folded napkin on a 
warm serving platter. Serve at once. This is an ideal 
way of cooking green com as nothing is lost in the cooking 
process. 

CORN WITH CREAM 

Cut com from cob while hot. There should be two 
cups. Turn into saucepan and season with salt, pepper 
and one teaspoon sugar; add one and one-half table- 
spoons butter or strained bacon fat and three table- 
spoons cream; reheat and serve. When cutting com 
from cob do not cut so deep that portions of cob are 
cut off with com. The better way is to score the kernels 
lengthwise of the cob, then press out pulp with the back 
of a silver knife, leaving the hulls on the cob. 

R^T^MTtn MnX AND BtriTBR SUBSTXTUTB MAT BB USED IN ALL 
RBCIPBS EXCEPT THOSE CALLING FOR CREAli. 

67 



FRIED GREEN CORN 

Cut the com from cob, using care that none of the 
cob is cut with it. Melt butter in a spider, add corn, 
separate the kernels and stir until com is delicately 
browned; use as little butter as possible; strained bacon 
fat may be used instead of butter; season with salt, pepper 
and a little rich cream. Do not allow mixture to boil 
after cream is added. Serve with chicken croquettes. 



STEWED GREEN CORN 

Cut the corn from one dozen ears of tender, green 
com. Put the com in a saucepan, add sufficient water 
to cover; bring to boiling point and cook twenty min- 
utes. There should be very little moisture left. Add 
one-half cup cream or top milk, one teaspoon sugar, 
one tablespoon butter and season with pepper and salt. 
For a change use equal parts of com and tomatoes; 
season the same. Tomatoes should be peeled, cut in 
quarters and seeds scraped out. Cook until tender with 
the com. 



SKIMMED MILK AND BUTTER STTBSTITUTB MAT BE USED IN ALL 
RECIPES EXCEPT THOSE CALLING FOR CREAM. 

68 



GREEN CORN CREOLE 

6 ears tender sweet green corn 2 tomatoes peeled and finely 
1 tablespoon olive oil or melted chopped 

butter H teaspoon salt 

1 medium sized green pepper 1 teaspoon sugar 

finely chopped ^ teaspoon paprika 

1 medium sized onion finely 1 small clove garlic 

chopped 

PROCESS : Score each row of kernels lengthwise of 
the cobs. With the back of the knife press out pulp, 
leaving hulls on the cobs. Heat oil or butter in a sauce- 
pan, add pepper and onion; cook until delicately 
browned, stirring constantly. Add com pulp, mix 
thoroughly and cook eight minutes, stirring lightly 
meanwhile; add tomatoes and seasoning and continue 
cooking ten minutes. Thrust a small wooden skewer 
(tooth-pick) through a small clove of garlic, drop it 
into mixture and stir lightly until a delicate flavor is 
imparted to mixture. Remove garlic (the skewer will 
help to locate garlic). Turn into a hot serving dish and 
serve* with roast veal, beef , pork or fried chicken. 

SUCCOTASH 

Cut hot, boiled com from the cob; there should be 
one cup; add equal quantity of hot, boiled lima beans, 
the latter cooked in boiling, salted water or white stock. 
Dot over with one or two tablespoons butter, season 
with salt and pepper. A tablespoon of top milk may be 
added to supply moisture. 



SKIMMED MILK AND BUTTER STTBSTm7TB MAT BB USED IN ALL 
RECIPES EXCEPT THOSE CALLING FOR CREAM. 

69 



SOUTHERN SUCCOTASH 

6 ears green com yi pound salt pork 

2 cups green lima beans 1 tablespoon sugar 

Salt and pepper 

PROCESS: Cut the com carefully from the cob. 
Put the cobs into water to cover; let them boil twenty 
minutes. Remove the cobs and strain the liquor over 
the cut com; add the beans and salt pork cut in half- 
inch cubes; add sugar and season with salt and pepper. 
Let simmer slowly one hour until the moisture is evapor- 
ated to the desired consistency. In the south this dish 
resembles soup somewhat. It is more generally liked, 
however, served as a vegetable about the consistency of 
stewed com ; two or three tablespoons of hot cream added 
just before serving is an addition to this dish. 



SUCCOTASH WITH TOMATOES 

1 cup cooked corn 1 small onion finely chopped 

1 cup cooked shelled beans 2 tablespoons butter 

4 tomatoes sliced ^ tablespoon sugar 

H green pepper finely chopped 1 teaspoon salt 

Few grains cayenne 

PROCESS: Melt butter in a saucepan, add chopped 
onion and pepper; cook without browning until soft, 
stirring constantly. Score the kernels lengthwise of 
the cobs of left-over com, then measure. Shell and cook 
the beans that have become ripe in boiling, salted water; 
drain; combine with com; add sliced tomatoes, cooked 
onion and pepper. Add seasoning and sugar. Cook 
until tomato is soft and the mixture is slightly thickened. 
Serve hot with roast veal, beef or pork. 



SKIMMED Mn£ AND BUTTER SUBSTXTUTE MAT BE USED IN ALL 
RECIPES EXCEPT THOSE CALLING FOR CREAM. 

70 



CORN A LA MEXICAN 

6 tomatoes H teaspoon salt 

2 tablespoons butter 2 cups hot green com 

1 green pepper finely chopped 1 tablespoon butter or cream 

1 small clove garlic or 1 teaspoon finely chopped onion 

PROCESS: Cut tomatoes in quarters, scrape out 
all the seeds. Melt butter in saucepan, add pepper and 
garlic; cook without browning, three minutes; add 
tomatoes and salt; cook five minutes; add com freshly 
boiled and cut from the cob; add a tablespoon of butter 
or cream and serve. Before chopping pepper, cover 
with boiling water, let stand one minute, then peel off 
the tissue-like skin covering it. Pimentos may be used 
when green peppers are not available. 



CORN SOUTHERN STYLE 

2 cups cooked corn or 1 can of H teaspoon pepper 

com 1 teaspoon sugar 

2 eggs slightly beaten 1 ]4 tablespoons melted butter 

1 teaspoon salt 2 cups scalded milk 

PROCESS : Mix the ingredients in the order given, 
turn mixture into a buttered pudding dish and bake until 
mixture is firm. Serve with fried chicken, roast veal, 
pork or beef. 



SKIMMED MILK AND BUTTER SUBSTITUTE MAT BE USED IN AIL 
SECIPES EXCEPT THOSE CALLING FOR CREAM. 

71 



SWEET CORN— NEW ENGLAND STYLE 

Finely chop one can of com or two cups of green corn. 
Add three eggs slightly beaten, one-half tablespoon 
sugar, one teaspoon salt, one-eighth teaspoon pepper, 
one tablespoon melted butter and two cups scalded milk. 
Turn into a buttered baking dish or into individual 
ramekins and bake in a slow oven until solid or like 
custard. Serve in baking dish. 



SCALLOPED CORN 

1 small mild green pepper Few grains cayenne 

1 small onion finely chopped ^ cup milk 

2 tablespoons butter or butter 1 ^ cups canned corn 
substitute Yolk 1 egg 

2 tablespoons flour 1 ^ tablespoons butter or 

1 teaspoon salt bacon fat 

^ teaspoon paprika |^ cup tiny stale bread cubes 

% cup cracker crumbs 

PROCESS: Cut pepper in halves; remove seeds 
and veins; cut in narrow strips and strips in halves 
crosswise. Mix with onion and cook both with butter 
five minutes, stirring constantly. Sift together flour 
and seasonings; add to first mixture and stir until well 
blended; then add milk gradually, continue stirring. 
Bring to boiling point, add corn, yolk of egg slightly 
beaten. Brown bread cubes in remaining butter and 
add to mixture. Turn into a buttered baking dish, cover 
with buttered cracker crumbs and bake in a hot oven 
until heated through and crumbs are browned. 



SKIMMED MILK AND BUTTER STTBSTITUTS MAT BE USED IN ALL 
RECIPES EXCEPT THOSE CALLING FOR CREAM. 

72 



STEWED CORN AND TOMATOES 

Cut the corn from the cobs of six ears of tender, sweet 
green corn; scrape the cobs with back of knife. Cook 
until tender in as little water as possible, then add an 
equal quantity of stewed tomatoes. Add one-third cup 
butter and one tablespoon sugar. Season with salt and 
pepper, heat to boiling point and turn into hot serving 
dish. This mixture may be turned into a buttered baking 
dish, the top covered with buttered and seasoned crumbs, 
then placed in the oven until crumbs are browned. 

CORN FRITTERS NO. 1 

1 cup canned corn yi cup flour 

1 well beaten egg 1 teaspoon sugar 

Salt and pepper 

PROCESS: Mix corn, flour and sugar together, add 
well beaten egg^ season highly with salt and pepper and 
drop on well buttered hot griddle about the size of N. Y. 
Counts. Brown on one side and then turn and brown the 
other. Serve with fried chicken or chicken croquettes. 

CORN FRITTERS NO. 2 

1 cup corn cut from cob 1 teaspoon sugar 

1 cup flour yi cup milk 

1 teaspoon salt 1 tablespoon olive oil 

Few grains cayenne 1 egg lightly beaten 

PROCESS: Beat egg thoroughly; add remaining 
ingredients in order given. Drop by tablespoonfuls into 
deep, hot fat. Cook six to eight minutes, turning often. 
Drain on brown paper and serve surrounding broiled 
chicken. These fritters may be cooked on a well greased, 
hissing hot griddle as Corn Fritters No. 1. 

SKIlfMED MILK AND BTJTTER STTBSTmJTB MAT BS USED IN ALL 
RECIPES EXCEPT THOSE CALLING FOR CREAM. 

73 



SWEET CORN FRITTERS NO. 3 

1 cup sweet green corn pulp 1 teaspoon sugar 

2 eggs 1 cup pastry flour 

yi teaspoon salt 1 ^ teaspoons baking powder 

yi teaspoon pepper Whites 2 eggs 

PROCESS: With a sharp knife score the kernels of 
Golden Bantam com lengthwise of the cob; with the 
back of knife press out the pulp; then measure. To pulp 
add the yolks of eggs beaten until thick and light, then 
the seasonings. Add flour sifted with baking powder. 
Then fold in the whites of eggs beaten until stiff. Drop 
by rounded tablespoons into hot fat, fry until evenly 
browned, turning often while frying. Drain on brown 
paper and serve at once. 



CORN AND CELERT FRnTTERS 

}4 cup finely chopped canned com ^ cup flour 

yi cup finely chopped celery 1 teaspoon sugar 

1 egg well beaten Salt and pepper 

PROCESS: Mix ingredients in the order given. 
Mix thoroughly. Drop by small spoonfuls on a hissing 
hot, well greased griddle. Brown on one side, turn and 
brown the other. These fritters should be about the 
size of individual butter plates. 



SKIMMED MILK AND BUTTER SUBSTITnTB MAT BB USED IN ALL 
RECIPES EXCEPT THOSE CALLING FOR CREAM. 

74 



CORN AND OYSTER FRITTERS 

1 cup canned corn H cup cream or rich milk 

1 egg well beaten }4 cup pastry flour 

^ teaspoon salt H teaspoon baking powder 

yi teaspoon white pepper 1 cup oysters 

PROCESS: Chop com very fine, add ingredients 
in the order given (except oysters). Mix thoroughly. 
Bring oysters to the boiling point in their own liquor; 
let cook one minute, drain and dry them between towels. 
Take up a tablespoonful of the batter, make a depression 
in center, lay an oyster in it, sprinkle with salt and pepper ; 
cover with more batter. With a small spatula or teaspoon 
scrape the fritter into a well greased, hissing hot frying 
pan; repeat until there are as many fritters in pan as can 
be conveniently turned. Let fritters cook until browned 
on one side, then turn and brown the other side. There 
should be plenty of fat in pan. Tried-out fat, salt pork 
fat is best for this purpose. 

CORN OYSTERS 

2 cups green com pulp }4 teaspoon sugar 
1 tablespoon melted butter 2 eggs well beaten 
yi teaspoon salt Pepper and flour 

PROCESS: With a sharp knife cut through the 
kernels lengthwise of the cob ; scrape out the pulp with 
the back of a silver knife; add butter, seasoning, eggs, 
and lastly sufficient flour to shape in small cakes the 
size of N. Y. Counts. Saute in tried-out salt pork fat or 
butter. Brown on one side, then turn and brown the 
other side. 



SKIMMED MILK AND BXTTTER STTBSTITnTB MAT BS USED IN ALL 
RECIPES EXCEPT THOSE CALLING FOR CREAM. 

76 



vmomiA CORN cakes 

% cup grated green or canned 2 eggs 

corn H cup flour 

H cup milk 3 teaspoons baking powder 

1 yi teaspoon sugar ^i teaspoon salt 

PROCESS : If canned com is used it should be finely 
chopped. To corn pulp add milk, sugar and eggs, 
beaten until thick and lemon tinted. Sift together flour, 
baking powder and salt. Combine mixtures. Put a 
tablespoon of mixture into buttered muffin rings arranged 
in a buttered dripping pan. Bake in a moderate oven, 
fifteen minutes. Serve with roast veal, beef or pork. 

GREEN PEPPERS STXTFFED WITH GREEN CORN 

Cut a slice from the stem ends of the required number 
of firm, green peppers of uniform size; remove veins 
and seeds. Score the kernels of tender, sweet com 
lengthwise of the cob and press out pulp with the back of 
knife. Season corn pulp with salt, paprika, a little cream, 
melted butter and chopped chives. Fill peppers wfth 
mixture; cover tops with buttered crumbs. Arrange 
peppers in a buttered baking dish and bake in a moder- 
ate oven until peppers are soft. Two tablespoons of 
the slices of green pepper finely chopped and sauted in 
one tablespoon of bacon fat or butter five minutes may 
be added to com mixture if desired. 



SKIMMED MILK AND BUTTER STTBSTmTTB MAT BE USED IN ALL 
RECIPES EXCEPT THOSE CALLING FOR CREAM. 

76 



TOMATOES STUFFED WITH SUCCOTASH 

Wash, wipe and remove a thin slice from the stem end 
of ax uniform-sized tomatoes, scoop out the inside, 
sprinkle with salt, invert, let stand one-half hour. Mix 
the pulp with one cup of succotash, stuff tomatoes and 
arrange them in a granite dripping pan well greased; 
sprinkle the top of each with buttered cracker crumbs. 
Bake in hot oven twenty minutes or until tender. Baste 
once with melted bacon fat or butter substitute. Serve 
with roast loin of veal. 



TOMATOES STUFFED WITH GREEN CORN 

Cut a slice from the stem ends of the required number 
of firm tomatoes of uniform size; reserve slices. Scoop 
out pulp and seeds; score the kernels of tender sweet 
com lengthwise of cob and press out pulp with back of 
knife. Sprinkle the inside of tomatoes with a little salt. 
Season com pulp with salt, paprika, melted butter, 
cream and chopped chives or onion juice. Fill tomatoes 
with mixture, set the slices cut from stem ends in place. 
Arrange tomatoes in a buttered baking dish and bake in 
a moderate oven until tomatoes are soft. A green pepper 
finely chopped and sauted in butter five minutes may be 
added to the com if desired. 



SKIMMBD MILK AND BUTTER STTBSTmJTB MAT BB USED IN ALL 
RECIPES EXCEPT THOSE CALLING FOR CREAM. 

77 



GREEN CORN AU 6RATIN 

1 tablespoon finely chopped onion ^ teaspoon salt 

1 tablespoon finely chopped 2 cups rich milk or thin 
green pepper cream 

1 tablespoon butter Green com cut from cob 

2 tablespoons flour 2 eggs 

Buttered cracker crumbs 

PROCESS: Cook onion and pepper in butter until 
soft but browned; add flour mixed with salt and stir 
until smooth; add milk or cream gradually, stirring 
constantly until boiling point is reached. Add enough 
sweet green com to make a consistent mixture; add eggs 
Ughtly beaten. Turn mixture into a well greased, 
individual ramekins; cover with buttered cracker crumbs 
and bake in the oven until heated through and crumbs 
are browned. Serve as an entree or as the main dish at 
luncheon or supper. 



CREAMED CORN AU 6RATIN 

4 tablespoons butter or butter 1 teaspoon sugar 

substitute 1 H cups rich milk 

4 tablespoons flour 2 cups green corn cut from cob 

1 teaspoon salt H cup cracker crumbs 

yi teaspoons white pepper yi cup melted butter or 
Few grains cayenne butter substitute 

PROCESS: Melt fat in a saucepan; add flour, salt, 
pepper, sugar and gradually milk, stirring constantly. 
Cook one minute; then stir in com; bring to boiling 
point; then turn into a buttered baking dish; cover top 
with cracker crumbs mixed with melted fat and bake 
twenty minutes in a moderate oven. 



SKTMMKD MILK AND BUTTER SUBSTmrTB MAT BB USED IN ALL 
RECIPES EXCEPT THOSE CALLING FOR CREAM. 

78 



CORN CROQUETTES 

1 quart grated green com yi teaspoon pepper 

2 cups milk 1 teaspoon sugar 
2 tablespoons butter 2 well beaten eggs 
2 tablespoons cheese 3 tablespoons flour 

1 teaspoon salt 

PROCESS: Cook corn and flour in milk in double 
boiler twenty minutes; add butter, cheese, salt, pepper, 
sugar and well beaten eggs; spread in granite dripping 
pan to the depth of one inch. When cold cut in two-inch 
squares, dip in flour, egg and cracker crumbs; fry in 
deep fat. Drain on brown paper and serve with fried 
chicken. 

CORN TIMBALES 

2 tablespoons butter or butter ^ cup soft bread crumbs 
substitute 1 teaspoon sugar 

2 tablespoons chopped onion 1 teaspoon salt 

2 tablespoons chopped green ^ teaspoon pepper 

pepper 3 eggs 
2 cups hot green corn or 1 can com 

PROCESS: Melt fat in a saucepan, add onion and 
pepper, cook five minutes without browning, stir con- 
stantly, add com finely chopped, bread crumbs, sugar, 
salt and pepper; beat the egg yolks thick and light; add 
to first mixture; cut and fold in the whites beaten until 
stiff. Fill well buttered timbale molds two-thirds full; 
set molds in pan of hot water and bake until mixture is 
firm. Serve with tomato sauce. 



flgT^^^ntn MILK AND BUTTER SUBSTmJTB MAT BB USBD IN ALL 
RBCIFES EXCEPT THOSE CALLING FOR CREAM. 

79 



CORN CUSTARD 

1 cup cooked green corn or canned 1 teaspoon sugar 

corn finely chopped yi teaspoon pepper 

4 eggs slightly beaten Few drops onion juice 

}i teaspoon salt 1 H cups scalded milk 

PROCESS: Beat eggs slightly, add seasoning and 
pour on slowly scalded milk; continue beating; add 
corn, mix well; turn into a buttered baking dish set in 
a pan of hot water; bake in moderate oven twenty to 
twenty-five minutes. Stir mixture once while cooking 
to prevent com from settling to the bottom of dish. Turn 
on serving platter and surround with broiled tomatoes. 

EORNLET CUSTARD 

3 eggs slightly beaten }4 teaspoon white pepper 

1 teaspoon sugar 34 can kornlet 

H teaspoon salt 2 cups milk 

Onion juice 

PROCESS : To the slightly beaten eggs add sugar, 
salt, pepper, kornlet and gradually the milk and flavor 
with onion juice. Stir until well mixed. Turn into a 
buttered baking dish, set dish in a pan of boiling water 
and bake in a moderate oven until firm. Serve from bak- 
ing dish at luncheon or supper. 



SKIMMED Mn.E AND BUTTER STTESTrTUTE MAT BE USED IN ALL 
RECIPES EXCEPT THOSE CALLING FOR CREAM. 

80 



CORN OMELET 

4 eggs beaten separately 1 teaspoon sugar 

4 tablespoons hot water 1 H tablespoons butter 

1 teaspoon salt H cup corn cut from the cob 

H teaspoon pepper or canned com 

PROCESS: Beat the yolks of eggs until thick and 
light; add salt, pepper, sugar, com and hot water; 
mix well. Beat whites of eggs until stiff and cut and fold 
them into first mixture; blend thoroughly. Melt butter 
in iron spider; tip it so the sides are well buttered; turn 
in the mixture, spread evenly; cook ten minutes on top 
of range; then finish cooking in the oven. Fold as puffy 
omelet on a hot platter. Serve with thin white cheese 
or tomato sauce. 



GREEN CORN PUDDING 

2 cups grated cooked green com ^ cup milk 

2 eggs slightly beaten 1 teaspoon sugar 

H cup melted butter Salt, pepper 

PROCESS: Grate the com from the cobs or score 
each row of kernels lengthwise of cob and press out pulp 
with the back of knife. There should be two cups. To 
com pulp add eggs slightly beaten, melted butter, milk 
and seasonings. Turn into a buttered baking dish and 
bake until firm. Test by thrusting silver knife into 
pudding; if knife comes out clean, pudding is done. 
Serve as a vegetable. 



gnnMMKD MILK AND BUTTBR SUBSTITUTB MAT BE USED IN ALL 
RECIPES EXCEPT THOSE CALLING FOR CREAM. 

81 



CORN PUDDING 

Yolks 3 eggs H cup butter 

2 cups green com Whites 3 eggs 

2 cups milk Salt and pepper 

PROCESS: Beat yolks of eggs until thick and light; 
add com, milk, butter, salt and pepper to taste. Fold in 
whites of eggs beaten until stiff; turn into a buttered 
pudding dish and bake in a moderate oven one hour. 

GREEN CORN SCRAMBLED WITH EGGS 

3 small ears of cooked corn or H teaspoon white pepper 

yi can of corn 1 tablespoon finely chopped 

1 teaspoon salt * green pepper 

1 yi tablespoons bacon fat or 4 eggs slightly beaten 

butter 

PROCESS: Use Golden Bantam com if possible. 
Cut com from cob and mix with salt, pepper and green 
pepper. Melt fat in an omelet pan; add com mixture 
and cook three minutes; add eggs. Stir and scrape 
carefully from the bottom of pan and cook until eggs are 
set. Roll on to a hot serving platter, sprinkle with papn 
rika and garnish with crisp bacon and sprigs of parsley. 

GREEN CORN WAFFLES 

1 yi cups flour 3i cup green com pulp 

1 H tablespoons baking powder yi cup cream 

H teaspoon salt M cup butter 

Yolks 3 eggs Whites 3 eggs 

PROCESS: Sift together the dry ingredients. 
Beat yolk of eggs until thick and lemon tinted; add to 
cream and gradually stir into dry ingredients. Add com 
pulp and melted butter. Beat thoroughly; then fold in 
the whites of eggs beaten until stiff. Cook at once in a 
hot, well greased waffle iron. 

SKTMMKT) MILK AND BUTTER SUBSTITUTB MAT BE USED IN ALL 
RECIPES EXCEPT THOSE CALLING FOR CREAM. 

82 



GREEN CORN GRIDDLE CAKES NO. 1 

1 cup grated cold cooked green corn 2 H cups flour 

2 tablespoons melted butter or 2 teaspoons baking powder 

bacon fat 1 egg lightly beaten 

1 tablespoon sugar 2 cups sweet milk 

PROCESS: Add butter, salt and sugar to grated 
com; sift flour and baking powder together; add to 
first mixture alternately with the milk; add lightly 
beaten egg and cook as griddle cakes on a hot, well 
greased griddle. 



GREEN CORN GRIDDLE CAKES NO. 2 

2 cups cold cooked grated com 1 teaspoon baking powder 
1 cup flour 2 teaspoons sugar 

1 teaspoon salt ^ cup top milk 

2 eggs 

PROCESS : Grate the com from the cobs or cut from 
cobs and finely chop. Sift together flour, salt, baking 
powder and sugar; add to com pulp, mix thoroughly. 
Add milk and yolks of eggs well beaten. Beat whites of 
eggs until stiff; fold them into mixture; beat batter one 
minute. Cook as griddle cakes. If skimmed milk is 
used, add one tablespoon of melted butter. 



SOMHSD MILK AND BUTTER SUBSTmiTB MAT BE USED IN ALL 
RECIPES EXCEPT THOSE CALLING FOR CREAM. 

83 



CORN AND BACON 

12 thin slices bacon 2 eggs 

2 cups canned corn or H green pepper finely chopped 

1 yi cups dried corn 1 medium sized onion finely 

Salt, pepper and paprika chopped 

PROCESS: Arrange slices of bacon in a cold iron 
skillet, heat slowly until most of the fat is tried out; 
drain off fat occasionally. Increase meat and crisp bacon 
quickly without burning. Remove to warming oven. Cook 
pepper and onion in three tablespoons of the fat until 
soft without browning. Add com, stir until well mixed; 
add eggs lightly beaten, salt, pepper and paprika. Scram- 
ble as scrambled eggs. Heap in a mound on a hot platter 
and garnish with bacon. If dried com is used follow 
recipe for Cooking Dried Com, and finish as directed in 
above recipe. 

CORN TOAST 

}^ tablespoon onion finely chopped 2 cups rich cream 

1 yi tablespoons butter or butter H teaspoon salt 

substitute H teaspoon paprika 

1 cup canned com 6 rounds toasted bread 

PROCESS: Melt butter in a saucepan; add onion 
and cook three minutes without browning, stirring con- 
stantly. Add corn, cream and seasonings, bring to 
boiling point and cook very slowly five minutes. Arrange 
hot buttered toast on a hot platter. Pour over mixture, 
sprinkle with paprika and grated cheese and serve 
immediately. 



SDMMBD lOLK AND BUTTER SUBSTITDTB MAT BB USBD IN ALL 
RECIPES EXCEPT THOSE CALLING FOR CREAM. 

84 



CREAM OF CORN SOUP 



1 can com 

2 cups boiling water 
2 cups scalded milk 
1 slice onion 



1 teaspoon sugar 

2 tablespoons butter 
2 tablespoons flour 

1 teaspoon salt 

H teaspoon white pepper 



PROCESS: Finely chop the corn from one can; 
add boiling water, cook slowly twenty minutes. Scald 
milk with onions, remove onion and add milk to com. 
Add sugar and bind with butter or butter substitute 
and flour cooked together. Add salt and pepper. Serve 
with freshly popped com slightly salted. 

CORN SOUP WITH WHIPPED CREAM 



6 ears or 1 can of com 

2 cups cold water 

2 tablespoons finely chopped 

onion 
2 cups scalded milk 



1 teaspoon sugar 

1 yi teaspoons salt 

3 tablespoons butter or 

butter substitute 
3 tablespoons flour 
1 cup condensed cream, whipped 

PROCESS: Cut com from cob, chop fine, add water 
and cook twenty minutes. Rub through a puree strainer ; 
add scalded milk. Cook onion in butter five minutes 
without browning; remove onion, add flour and cook 
one minute; add seasoning and com mixture. Mix well, 
bring to boiling point, cook five minutes; then pour 
over whipped cream placed in bottom of hot soup tureen. 
Serve with crisp crackers. 



SKIMMBD MILK AND BUTTER SUBSTITUTB MAT BB USED IN AIL 
RECIPES EXCEPT THOSE CALLING FOR CREAM. 

85 



GREEN CORN SOUP 

6 ears sweet green corn 1 teaspoon salt 

2 cups milk scalded with ^ teaspoon white pepper 

1 slice onion 2 tablespoons flour 

1 teaspoon sugar 2 tablespoons butter 

Paprika 

PROCESS: Grate the com; there should be two 
cups pulp. Cover cobs with cold water and bring to 
boiling point and simmer thirty minutes. Strain the 
liquor; there should be two cups. To this liquor add 
the corn pulp and cook fifteen minutes, counting from 
time boiling point is reached. Add seasonings, remove 
onion from scalded milk or cream and add to corn mix- 
ture. Melt butter in a saucepan, add flour, stir to a 
smooth paste; add gradually some of the hot mixture 
until of the consistency to pour. Combine mixtures and 
cook five minutes. Sprinkle each portion with paprika 
and pass daintily browned cheese crackers. 

CORN SOUP WITH TOMATOES 

2 cups grated cooked green corn 1 small clove garlic finely 

or 1 can corn chopped 

1 H cups tomatoes 6 cups well seasoned chicken 

J^ green or red pepper or veal stock 

1 tablespoon onion finely chopped Salt and pepper 

PROCESS: Peel and quarter tomatoes, scrape out 
all the seeds, add tomatoes, com, pepper, onion and 
garlic to stock; place kettle on range, bring to boiling 
point, cook rapidly five minutes, reduce heat and simmer 
until vegetables are tender (about thirty minutes). 
Season with salt and pepper. Serve with croutons. 



SKIMMED mile: AND BTJTTER SUBSHTUTB MAT BE USED IN ALL 
RECIPES EXCEPT THOSE CALLING FOR CREAM. 

86 



CORN CHOWDER 

2 cups cooked green corn or 2 cups boiling water 

1 can com 3 cups milk 

1 cup salt pork cut in half cubes 3 tablespoons butter or 
4 cups potatoes cut in ^-inch butter substitute 

cubes 4 Boston crackers 

}i onion sliced Salt, pepper and few grains 

cayenne 

PROCESS: Try out the cubes of pork in saucepan; 
add onion and cook five minutes without browning; 
strain fat into stewpan. Parboil potato cubes five min- 
utes; drain; add potatoes to fat; add two cups boiling 
water; continue cooking until potatoes are tender. 
Add com and milk scalded, bring to boiling point. 
Season with salt, pepper and cayenne; add butter and 
crackers, the latter split and soaked in cold skimmed 
milk enough to cover. Remove crackers with skim- 
mer, turn chowder into hot tureen, place crackers on 
top and serve immediately. A delicious chowder may 
be made by substituting the same quantity of succotash 
for the com. 



SKIMMED WLK. AND BUTTER SUBSTITUTE MAT BE USED IN ALL 
RECIPES EXCEPT THOSE CALLING FOR CREAM. 

87 



CORN AND TOMATO SALAD 

1 cup tomato pulp 1 teaspoon salt 

1 slice onion 1 teaspoon Worcestershire 

2 slices carrot sauce 

1 blade celery bh)ken in pieces H teaspoon soda 

1 sprig parsely 1 cup freshly cooked or 

Bit of bay leaf canned com (latter drained) 

4 cloves 1 tablespoon granulated 

}i teaspoon pepper corns gelatine 

2 tablespoons cold water 

PROCESS: Cook the first eight ingredients in a 
saucepan twenty minutes; then rub through a strainer; 
add soda, salt, Worcestersihire and hot com. Soak 
gelatine in cold water and dissolve over hot water. 
Remove first mixture from range; add gelatine, mix well 
and pour into individual molds previously wet in cold 
water. Chill thoroughly, unmold and serve in nests of 
lettuce leaves; garnish with Mayonnaise dressing. 



CORN SALAD 

2 cups freshly boiled green corn 4 young onions or 2 table- 

yi green or red pepper spoons finely chopped chives 

PROCESS: Cut tender, freshly cooked com from 
the cob; add pepper and onion finely chopped; toss 
lightly and marinate with French dressing; let stand to 
ripen one hour; then serve in nests of endive with or 
without Mayonnaise dressing. 



SKIMMED MUK AND BUTTER SUBSTITUTB MAT BE USED IN ALL 
RECIPES EXCEPT THOSE CALLING FOR CREAM. 

88 



CORN HASH 
(Relish to Serve with Meats, etc.) 

yi small head cabbage 2 medium sized onions 

2 green peppers 3 cups freshly cooked com 

1 cup sugar 1 tablespoon whole black 

2 tablespoons whole mustard pepper 

seeds 1 tablespoon celery seed 

1 red pepper Vinegar to cover 

Salt to taste 

PROCESS: Chop cabbage, peppers and onion very 
fine; add corn freshly boiled and cut from cob. Add 
sugar, mustard, celery seed and pepper. Mix well, 
season to taste with salt; add vinegar and simmer 
twenty minutes. Store in half-pint glass jars in a cool 
place. 

CORN RELISH 

14 ears sweet green com ^ cup salt 

H medium sized head white 1 ^ cups granulated sugar 

cabbage 6 tablespoons flour 

3 green peppers ^ teaspoon tumeric 

2 mild red peppers 2 tablespoons ground 

3 large onions mustard 

H teaspoon celery seed 1 quart white vinegar 

PROCESS: Cut com from cob; wipe peppers with 
damp cloth, cut a slice from stem ends and remove 
seeds and veins; peel onions. Finely chop cabbage, 
onions and peppers. Mix well; add one pint vinegar 
and heat to boiling point. Sift seasonings together 
twice; add gradually remaining vinegar, stirring con- 
stantly; then pour slowly into hot vegetables. Continue 
cooking thirty-five minutes. Turn into half-pint, steri- 
lized glass jars; seal and store. 



strruruim lOLK AND BUTTER SUBSTirUTB MAT BE USED IN ALL 
RBCIFBS EXCEPT THOSE CALLING FOR CREAM. 

89 



TO DRY CORN 

If possible, get the Yellow Bantam green com. 
Remove husks and silk. Arrange ears criss-cross in a 
steamer, cover steamer with a folded crash tea towel, 
place cover over towel and set steamer over a vessel of 
boiling water. Steam com fifteen minutes. Remove 
from steamer and plunge into very cold water. Drain 
and with a sharp knife cut com from the cobs, cutting 
from the tip toward the butts, using care that com is 
not cut so deep as to remove the chaff. With the back of 
a silver knife scrape the cobs to remove the germ or 
what is called the ** heart of the kernel." Cover small 
screens or cake coolers with cheese cloth and cover with 
corn. Do not pile it on too thick, rather strew it over. 
Place these trays in the oven of the gas range and light 
the pilot light, turn it half offhand leave oven door open; 
occasionally stir the com with the hand and alternating 
the trays in the oven from the top grate to the bottom 
grate, and one tray may be placed on top of the oven, 
and at intervals exchanged with those inside. When 
corn rattles and is readily shaken from the cloth, it is 
ready to store in tin cans or boxes. Com may be set 
in the sun in a screened porch and scattered over larger 
screens ; they must be set indoors when the sun goes down, 
otherwise the corn will become damp. This is an old-time 
method but a good one. Small quantities may be dried 
at a time as soon as green com is in season. 



SKIMMED MILK AND BUTTER SUBSTTrUTE MAT BE USED IN ALL 
RECIPES EXCEPT THOSE CALLING FOR CREAM. 

90 



TO COOK DRIED CORN 

Cover one cup of dried com with lukewarm water 
and let it stand over night in a warm place (the back of 
range is a good place). In the morning as the water is all 
absorbed add more water to cover, bring to boiling point 
and cook slowly until tender (about two hours), add more 
water if necessary. Season with salt, pepper and one 
tablespoon butter and rich milk or thin cream to moisten 
— about one cup. 

TO CAN SWEET CORN 

There is no better com for canning or general use for 
that matter than Golden Bantam. If possible, have the 
corn fresh pulled from the stalk and husked immediately. 
Use only the fully developed ears^ With a sharp knife 
score each row of kernels lengthwise of the ears, with the 
back of a silver knife press out the heart of pulp leaving 
the hulls on the cob. (Be sure that this part of the pro- 
cess is very thoroughly done that there may be no waste). 
Fill sterilized jars two-thirds full of pulp and no more, as 
the pulp swells very greatly in the first part of cooking. 
Fill three jars at a time, place jars in cooker or canner 
with covers beside them; cook fifteen minutes, stir down 
with a silver spoon or knife the corn in each jar, continue 
stirring at intervals when com appears to rise to top of 
jars. When com pulp ceases puffing in cooking, then 
fill two jars to the top from the third and continue 
cooking thirty minutes. Wipe tops of jars, adjust 
rubber rings and covers, do not tightly seal, and finish 
cooking another half hour. Seal, remove from canner, 
cool (out of draft), then store. 



SKIMMBD UOK AND BUTTER SUBSTTrUTB MAT BE USED IN ALL 
RECIPES EXCEPT THOSE CALLING FOR CREAM. 

91 



CHAPTER V. 



COLOmAL INDIAN SUET PUDDING 

4 cups scalded milk H tablespoon ginger 

1 cup corn meal H teaspoon cinnamon 

1 cup creamed suet ^ cup seed and shredded 

1 cup molasses raisins 

2 eggs 2 cups cold milk 
1 teaspoon salt H cup cold water 

PROCESS: Stir the meal slowly into the milk; add 
remaining ingredients in the order given, except the cold 
water and milk; lastly add eggs, beaten thick and light; 
pour into well buttered baking dish ; pour cold water and 
milk over top (do not stir these into mixture). Bake 
slowly in a moderate oven three hours. Serve with Hard 
Sauce or cream and sugar. 



STEAMED INDIAN MEAL PUDDING 

1 cup com meal H cup finely chopped suet 

yi cup sour milk 1 teaspoon salt 

yi cup N. O. molasses 1 teaspoon ginger 

1 teaspoon soda 

PR(X!ESS: Mix com meal, molasses, suet and ginger, 
dissolve soda in sour milk; add to first mixture. Beat 
well, pour into well buttered mold and steam four hours. 
Serve with Lemon or Molasses Sauce. 



SKIMMBD UOK AUD BUTTER SUBSTITUTB MAT BB USBD IN ALL 
KBCIPBS EXCBPT THOSE CALLING FOR CBBAIC 

92 



APPLE AND BROWN BREAD PUDDING 

2 cups brown bread crumbs H cup brown sugar 

2 cups chopped apples 1 egg 

H cup finely chopped suet 2 tablespoons flour 

1 cup seed raisins 3^ teaspoon salt 

1 cup milk 

PROCESS: Mix bread crumbs and apple; addsuet, 
raisins mixed with flour and salt; add milk and beat 
thoroughly. Steam in buttered molds two hours. Serve 
with Lemon or Brandy Sauce. 



INDIAN MEAL PUDDING 

1 quart scalded milk 1 teaspoon salt 

H cup corn meal ^ teaspoon cinnamon 

2 tablespoons butter ^ teaspoon ginger 
1 cup molasses 2 eggs 

1 cup cold milk 

PROCESS: Pour scalded milk slowly on com meal 
while stirring constantly and cook in a double boiler 
twenty minutes, then add butter and molasses. Sift 
together salt and spices, add to first mixture; add eggs 
beaten until thick and lemon tinted. Turn into a but- 
tered earthen pudding dish and pour cold milk over top. 
Bake in a slow oven one hour. Serve with Hard Sauce, 
top milk or sweetened cream. The pudding is delicious 
without sauce. 



c4:4iMM:-(» 



lOLK AND BUTTER SUBSTrrUTB MAT BB USED JS ALL 
BBCIPB8 EZCBPT THOSE CALLING FOR CREAM. 

93 



BAKED INDIAN PUDDING 

5 cups scalded milk 1 tablespoon butter 

H cup com meal 1 teaspoon salt 

yi cup molasses 1 teaspoon ginger 

PROCESS: Pour hot milk slowly on com meal. 
Cook in double boiler twenty-five minutes. Add molas- 
ses, butter, salt and sift in the ginger. Turn into a but- 
tered baking dish and bake slowly two hours in a very 
moderate oven. Serve with Hard Sauce or sweetened 
cream. If baked too fast it will not whey and will be 
too solid. 



BAKED INDIAN PUDDING WITH SWEET APPLES 

H cup corn meal H teaspoon salt 

1 cup cold water H teaspoon ginger 

2 cups scalded milk 1 teaspoon cinnamon 

1 cup molasses H teaspoon cloves 

2 eggs 4 sweet apples 

H cup cold milk 

PROCESS: Pour cold water over com meal; mix 
well; then stir gradually into scalded milk, stir until 
the mixture thickens. Add molasses, eggs beaten until 
thick and lemon tinted, and salt sifted with spices. Beat 
thoroughly. Wipe, core, pare and thinly slice apples, 
put them into a well greased baking dish, pour over the 
mixture and bake in a moderate oven thirty minutes. 
Pour over top cold milk and bake without stirring two 
hours. Serve with top milk or cream. 



SKTMMKD USLK. AUD BUTTER SUBSTTTUTB MAT BB tTSBD JS ALL 
RBCIPBS EXCEPT THOSE CALLING FOR CREAIC 

d4 



BAKED CORN MEAL PUDDING 

H cup com meal }i cup molasses 

1 cup cold water ^ teaspoon salt 

2 cups scalded milk 1 teaspoon cinnamon ' 
H cup sugar 1 teaspoon ginger 

2 eggs slightly beaten H cup milk (extra) 

PROCESS: Stir com meal into cold milk; add to 
scalded milk; add sugar, molasses, salt, cinnamon, ginger 
and egg slightly beaten. Pour into a buttered pudding 
dish; bake thirty minutes; pour over the extra half cup 
of cold milk and bake two hours in a moderate oven with- 
out stirring. 



BAKED INDIAN MEAL PUDDING 
With Quick Tapioca 

H cup com meal 2 tablespoons butter or 

H cup "quick" tapioca butter substitute 

1 quart scalded milk }4 teaspoon salt 

1 cup molasses 1 teaspoon grated orange rind 

yi teaspoon ginger 
1 yi cups cold milk 

PROCESS : Mix together com meal and tapioca and 
sprinkle slowly into hot milk while stirring briskly; stir 
and cook until tapioca is transparent. Add molasses* 
butter, salt, orange peel and sift in the ginger. Mix 
thoroughly and turn into a well greased baking dish. 
Pour cold milk over top of the mixture and place in the 
oven without stirring ingredients together. Bake two 
hours. Serve with or without cream. 



SKIMMBD inLK AND BUTTER SUBSTITUTB MAT BB USED US ALL 
RBCIPES EXCEPT THOSE CALLING FOR CREAM. 

95 



CORN MEAL WITH PEARL TAPIOCA PUDDINO 

)i cup com meal yi teaspoon salt 

a cup tapioca soaked in cold ^ tablespoon ginger 

water over night ^ cup seeded and shredded 

4 cups scalded milk raisins 

2 tablespoons butter 1 H cups cold milk 

1 cup molasses 

PROCESS: Mix com meal and tapioca (drained) 
and stir slowly into scalded milk. Cook in double boiler 
until tapioca becomes transparent, stirring occasionally; 
add molasses, salt, ginger, butter and raisins; turn into 
buttered baking dish. Pour the cold milk over the top; 
place in oven. Bake one hour; stir once during baking 
period. Serve with Hard Sauce or Vanilla Sauce. 



INDIYIDUAL CORN MEAL PUDDINGS 

Prepare a rule of Hasty Pudding (com meal mush). 
Beat three eggs very light, add one cup molasses, two 
tablespoons melted butter or butter substitute, one tea- 
spoon soda, one-half tablespoon ginger; add sufficient 
mush to this mixture to make a thick batter. Turn into 
hissing hot, well greased gem cups to half their depth; 
press a large seeded raisin into each. Sprinkle top with 
sugar and cinnamon, add a small dot of butter to each and 
bake in a hot oven a rich brown. Serve with ''Near" 
Hard Sauce. 



SDMMED VniK AND BUTTER SUBSTITUTK MAT BB TJSBD Df ALL 
RBCIPBS EXCEPT THOSB CALUNO FOR CBSAM. 

06 



DELICATE INDIAN MEAL PUDDING 

4 cups scalded milk 1 tablespoon butter or 

5 tablespoons com meal butter substitute 
4 tablespoons sugar 3 eggs 

1 teaspoon salt H teaspoon ginger 

PROCESS: Scald milk in double boiler; add corn 
meal slowly while stirring briskly; let cook fifteen min- 
uteSi stirring occasionally while cooking; add salt, sugar 
and butter; then remove from range; add eggs beaten 
thick and light. Turn mixture into buttered pudding 
mold and bake in moderate oven one houn Serve with 
Hard Sauce, "Near" Hard Sauce or sweetened cream. 



INDIAN RICE FDDDmO 

4 cups scalded milk ^ cup molasses 

yi cup rice 2 tablespoons butter 

\i cup Indian meal H teaspoon ginger 

H teaspoon salt 

PROCESS: Cook the meal in milk in double boiler 
twenty minutes; add rice (uncooked), molasses, butter 
and seasoning. Pour in buttered pudding dish and bake 
in moderate oven two hours. Stir well after cooking one- 
half hour; finish cooking without stirring. 



CTCIMMTm lOLK AUD BtlTTBR SUBS T I T U T K MAT BB USBD IN ALL 
RECIPBS EXCEPT THOSE CALLING FOR CSBAIC 

97 



BAKED INDIAN AND APPLE PUDDING 

2 cups scalded milk ^ teaspoon ginger 

H cup com meal H cup molasses 

H teaspoon salt 1 tart apple 

Grating orange rind 

PROCESS: Pour scalded milk slowly over sifted 
com meal while stirring constantly. Cook in double 
boiler thirty minutes, stirring occasionally. Remove from 
range, add salt sifted with ginger, molasses and grated 
orange rind to flavor delicately. Pour into a buttered 
baking dish and bake slowly one hour in a moderate oven, 
stirring several times while cooking. Pare, quarter and 
thinly slice apple and stir into pudding near the last part 
of cooking. Continue baking until apple is soft. Serve 
with Molasses Sauce or Hard Sauce. 



DATE CORN MEAL PODDING 

2 cups scalded milk 1 cup molasses or sugar 

H cup corn meal H teaspoon cinnamon 

1 tablespoon melted butter or H cup prepared dates 

butter substitute 2 eggs 

PROCESS: Pour boiling water over dates; separate 
them with a fork, drain and dry on a towel at once, 
remove stones and all the loose skin possible, cut in small 
pieces. Pour scalded milk over com meal; add butter, 
molasses, cinnamon and dates. Beat ^;gs until thick and 
lemon tinted and fold into mixture. Turn into a well 
greased pudding dish and bake until firm or about the 
consistency of baked custard. Serve with cream or 
Hard Sauce or "Near" Hard Sauce made of butterine. 
See " Pudding Sauces." 



8KTMMRD liILK AUD BUTTER SUBSTTTUTB MAT BB USED IN AIL 
SECIPBS BXCBPT THOSE CALLING FOR CREAM. 

98 



CORN MEAL PUDDING WITH COCOANUT 

2 tablespoons com meal yi teaspoon salt 

1 tablespoon quick tapioca 2 tablespoons sugar 

2 tablespoons shredded cocoanut 1 tablespoon melted butter or 
2 cups milk butter substitute 

H cup molasses 

PROCESS: Mix com meal, tapioca, cocoanut, salt 
and sugar; add butter, molasses and gradually the milk, 
stirring constantly. Turn mixture into a well greased 
pudding dish and bake slowly two hours. Serve plain or 
with cream. 



IVORT CORNSTARCH PUDDING 

2 cups scalded milk 5 tablespoons sugar 

4 tablespoons cornstarch 3 egg whites 

H teaspoon salt H teaspoon vanilla 

PROCESS: Mix cornstarch, sugar and salt; add 
scalded milk, stirring constantly until mixture thickens; 
cook thirty minutes in double boiler, stirring occasionally. 
Add the whites of eggs beaten stiff, mix thoroughly, add 
flavoring. Pour into wet mold, chill and serve with cold 
sweetened cream. 



GOLDEN CORNSTARCH PUDDING 

Follow recipe for Ivory Cornstarch Pudding, substi- 
tuting yolks of three eggs for the three whites. Flavor 
with one-fourth teaspoon each of vanilla and lemon 
extract. Mold, chill and serve. 



farriMrinm mILC Ain> BUTTER SUBSnTUTB MAT BB USED Df ALL 
SECIPBS EXCEPT THOSE CALLING FOR CREAM. 

99 



CORNSTARCH FRUIT MOLD 

Follow recipe for Ivory or Golden Cornstarch Pud- 
ding, adding one cup of chopped candied fruits or cooked 
fruits, drained from their liquor, halves of apricots, 
sliced peaches, stewed and stoned prunes, to the pudding 
before molding. If the fruit is in large portions these 
may be arranged attractively in bottom of wet mold and 
mixture poured over, pressed into place and chilled thor- 
oughly. Unmold. Serve surrounded with whipped 
condensed milk or sweetened cream. 



COCOANUT MOLD 

Follow recipe for Ivory Cornstarch Pudding, adding 
one cup freshly grated cocoanut. Mold in individual 
molds; garnish each with a cherry cut in quarters. Serve 
with Boiled Custard or whipped cream, sweetened and 
flavored. 



COCOANUT CONES WITH CHOCOLATE SAUCE 

3 tablespoons cornstarch 2 cups scalded milk 

3 tablespoons cold milk ^ cup shredded cocoanut 

4 tablespoons powdered sugar Whites 3 eggs 

yi teaspoon salt H teaspoon vanilla 

PROCESS: Dilute cornstarch with cold milk; add 
sugar, salt and scalded milk, stirring constantly. Cook 
in double boiler twenty minutes, continue stirring the 
first ten minutes of cooking, afterwards occasionally. 
Add cocoanut; then fold in whites of eggs beaten until 
stiff. Turn into individual molds previously rinsed with 
cold water; chill, unmold and serve with Cocoa Sauce. 



SKIMMBD USLK AND BUTTER SUBSTTTUTB HAT BB USED Df ALL 
KSCIPES EXCEPT THOSE CALUNO FOR CREAM. 

100 



COCOA SAUCE 

^ cup sugar 1 cup cocoa (powder) 

H teaspoon salt 1 teaspoon butter 

Yolks 2 eggs H teaspoon vanilla 

PROCESS: Sift together the dry ingredients; add 
yolks slightly beaten and milk gradually while stirring 
constantly. Cook in double boiler (continue stirring) 
until mixture coats the spoon. Add vanilla and butter. 
Serve hot or cold. 

ECONOMICAL CORNSTARCH PUDDING 

Without Eggs 

yi cup cornstarch ^ cup cold skimmed milk 

3 tablespoons sugar 2 cups scalded skimmed milk 

yi teaspoon salt H teaspoon vanilla 

PROCESS: Sift together cornstarch, sugar and salt; 
dilute with cold milk. Add to scalded milk, stirring 
constantly until mixture thickens, afterwards occasion- 
ally • Cook twenty minutes in double boiler. Remove 
from range, add vanilla. Turn into a mold wet with cold 
water. Chill. Unmold and serve with Chocolate Sauce. 

HOT CORNSTARCH PUDDING 

% cup cornstarch }i cup sugar 

yi cup cold milk 2 eggs 

3 M cups scalded milk K cup sugar 

^ teaspoon salt H teaspoon vanilla 

PROCESS: Dilute cornstarch with cold milk; then 
pour slowly into scalded milk, stirring constantly; add 
the first portion of sugar and salt, continue stirring until 
mixture thickens; cover and cook twenty minutes; beat 
the eggs slightly; add remaining sugar and stir slowly 



:i:«l.'JM:<» 



muc and butter substttutb mat bb used in all 
bbcifbs except thosb callmo for csbaic 

101 



into hot mixture, continue stirring until eggs are thor- 
oughly blended. Cover and continue cooking three 
minutes. Add flavoring and serve hot with sweetened 
cream. 

ELIZABETH PUDDING 

2 cups scalded milk H teaspoon salt 

K cup cornstarch ^ cup cold milk 

li cup sugar 1 teaspoon lemon or ranilla 

Whites 3 eggs 

PROCESS: Mix sugar, cornstarch and salt; dilute 
with cold milk; add scalded milk, stirring continually 
until mixture thickens; cook fifteen minutes. Flavor; 
fold in whites of eggs beaten until stiff, mix carefully to 
retain fluffy consistency; mold; chill and serve with 
Boiled Custard or Golden Sauce. 

SNOW BALLS WITH CHOCOLATE SAUCE 

Follow recipe for Elizabeth Pudding. Mold in round 
bottom molds, chill and serve with Chocolate Sauce. 

PINEAPPLE PUDDING 

2K cups scalded milk ^ teaspoon salt 

\i cup cold milk H can finely chopped pine- 

H cup cornstarch apple 

H cup sugar Whites 3 eggs 

PROCESS: Follow method of making Elizabeth 
Pudding, adding fruit just before molding. Fill small 
fancy molds, first dipped in cold water, chill. Serve each 
mold on a circle of canned pineapple; the juice of the 
pineapple may be thickened slightly and poured over 
each or whipped cream may be used. 

tmMMRD MILK AND BUTTER STTBSTITUTB MAT BE USED VR ALL 
RECIPES EXCEPT THOSE CALLING FOR CREAM. 

102 



REBECCA CORNSTARCH PUDDING 

2 cups scalded milk 1 yi squares chocolate 

H cup cornstarch 3 tablespoons boiling water 

H cup sugar 3 whites of eggs 

}i teaspoon salt 1 teaspoon vanilla 

H cup cold milk H cup shredded almonds 

PROCESS: Mix sugar, cornstarch and salt; dilute 
with cold milk. Add to scalded milk slowly while stir- 
ring constantly; cook fifteen minutes or until mixture 
thickens. Melt chocolate, add hot water, stir to a smooth 
paste; add to cooked mixture; add blanched and shredded 
almonds. Fold in whites of eggs beaten stiff and flavor- 
ing. Turn into fancy ring mold wet with cold water. 
Chill, unmold, fill center with whipped condensed milk. 



CORNSTARCH BLANC MANGE WITH 
COITDENSED MILK 

1 cup condensed milk 1 cup boiling water 

H cup cornstarch ^ teaspoon salt 

H cup cold water H teaspoon vanilla 

PROCESS : Dilute the cornstarch and salt with the 
cold water. Combine condensed milk with boiling water. 
Turn into double boiler and slowly pour into hot milk 
the prepared cornstarch, stirring constantly until mixture 
thickens, afterwards occasionally. Cook twenty min- 
utes. Turn into individual molds rinsed in cold water; 
chill, unmold and serve with Boiled Custard. 



:r4i'lM:<(i 



MILK AND BUTTBR SUBSTITUTB MAY BB USED IN ALL 
BSCIFBS EXCEPT THOSE CALLING FOR CREAM. 

103 



CHOCOLATE MOLD 

H cup cornstarch 2 squares unsweetened 

H cup sugar chocolate, melted 

H teaspoon salt 2 tablespoons hot water 

2 cups scalded milk Whites 2 eggs 

H teaspoon vanilla 

PROCESS: Sift together cornstarch, sugar and salt; 
add milk gradually, stirring constantly. Melt chocolate, 
add hot water and cornstarch mixture. Cook over hot 
water twenty minutes; cool and fold in the whites of 
eggs beaten until stiff. Add vanilla. Turn into indivi- 
dual molds previously rinsed with cold water. Chill, 
unmold and serve with sweetened cream. 



ROTAL CHOCOLATE PUDDING 

yi cup cornstarch 1 H squares chocolate 

yi cup sugar 2 tablespoons hot water 

H teaspoon salt Whites 2 eggs 

2 cups milk H teaspoon vanilla 

PROCESS : Sift tc^ether cornstarch, sugar and salt; 
add to milk, stirring constantly; melt chocolate, add hot 
water, cornstarch mixture and cook in double boiler 
thirty minutes; stirring constantly until mixture thick- 
ens, afterwards occasionally. Cool, add whites of eggs 
beaten until stiff, and flavoring. Turn into a mold rinsed 
with cold water. Chill, unmold and serve with sweetened 
cream. 



fi¥mMKT> MILK AND BUTTER SUBSTFTUTB MAT BB USED IN ALL 
RBCIPSS BXCBPT THOSB CALLING FOR CRBAM. 

104 



CHERRY FRITTERS 

yi cup cornstarch ^ cup cold milk 

H cup flour Yolks 2 eggs 

H cup sugar 2 cups scalded milk 

yi teaspoon salt M cup Maraschino or candied 

cherries finely chopped 

PROCESS: Sift together cornstarch, flour, sugar 
and salt. Dilute with cold milk; add well beaten yolks 
of eggs; then add first mixture slowly to scalded milk, 
stirring constantly, and cook in double boiler fifteen 
minutes. Remove from range, add cherries and pour 
in a shallow granite pan rinsed with cold water to the 
depthof three-fourths of an inch. Chill. Turn on a board, 
cut in squares, dip in flour, egg and fine cracker crumbs; 
fry a golden brown in deep, hot fat; drain on brown 
paper. Serve with Cherry Sauce. 

CHERRY SAUCE 

3 tablespoons cornstarch }i cup chopped Maraschino . 

H cup sugar cherries 

^ cup boiling water H cup Maraschino syrup 

drained from the bottle 
1 H teaspoons butter 

PROCESS: Sift together cornstarch and sugar; add 
slowly to boiling water, stirring constantly. Boil six 
minutes, add cherries, syrup and butter. Serve hot with 
any steamed pudding. 



RKlMMRn MILK AND BUTTBR SUBSTITUTB MAY BE USED IN SLb 
BBCIPBS EXCEPT THOSE CALLING FOR CREAM. 

106 



POPPED CORN PUDDING 

3 cups scalded milk H cup brown sugar 

2 H cups popped com finely 1 tablespoon butter 

crushed ^ teaspoon salt 

3 eggs slightly beaten ^ cup finely chopped pecan 

nut meats 

PROCESS: Add scalded milk to prepared popped 
com, let stand one hour. Add remaining ingredients in 
the order given. Turn mixture into a buttered baking 
dish and bake in a moderate oven until firm. Serve hot 
with Caramel Sauce or maple syrup or with sweetened 
cream. Measure popped com after crushing. 

WHIPPED CREAM SAUCE 

1 cup heavy cream H cup powdered sugar 

yi teaspoon vanilla 

PROCESS: Whip cream until stiff, using Dover 
egg beater. Add sugar and vanilla; chill thoroughly, or 
follow instructions for whipping condensed milk; use in 
place of heavy cream. 

TO WHIP COITDENSED MILK 

Put a can of condensed milk into a deep saucepan; 
add water to cover. Place on range and bring to boiling 
point. Remove can at once from hot water and pour 
cold water over can to quickly cool milk. Then pack can in 
ice until thoroughly chilled. Open can and pour the milk 
into a chilled bowl. Have another larger bowl half filled 
with crushed ice; place smaller bowl in one containing 
the ice and stir until milk is chilled; then whip as other 
cream with a Dover egg beater or a cream whipper. 
Sweeten and flavor as desired. Place on ice until ready 
to serve. After following these instructions carefully 



c<:'«i,m:-i:-*i 



lOLK AND BUTTER SUBSTITOTB MAT BE USBD IN ALL 
RECIPES EXCEPT THOSE CALLING FOR CREAM. 

106 



with the usual satisfactory results condensed milk will 
be used in this way in the home to a greater extent than 
ever. Especially at the present extremely high price of 
"whipping cream." 

CORN MEAL SOUFFLE 

3 tablespoons butter \i teaspoon salt 

3 tablespoons fine sifted corn H cup sugar 

flour 1 teaspoon grated orange or 
1 cup milk lemon rind 

Yolks 4 eggs Whites 4 eggs 

PROCESS: Melt butter in a saucepan; add com 
flour and gradually milk, stirring constantly. Bring to 
boiling point and cook over boiling water twenty min- 
utes. Remove from range, add yolks of eggs beaten 
until thick and lemon tinted, mix with lemon or orange 
rind, salt and sugar. Beat whites of eggs until stiff; 
then cut and fold them into first mixture. Turn into 
buttered pudding dish sprinkled with granulated sugar. 
Place dish in a pan of hot water and bake in a moderate 
oven about twenty minutes. The water surrounding 
baking dish should be kept just below the boiling point. 
The souffle should be well puffed and delicately browned 
when done. Serve with Whipped Cream Sauce. 

VAIOLLA SAUCE 

H cup sugar 1 cup boiling water 

1 tablespoon cornstarch 2 tablespoons butter 

M teaspoon salt 1 teaspoon vanilla extract 

PROCESS: Mix and sift sugar and cornstarch; add 
salt ; pour on gradually boiling water, stirring constantly. 
Simnier ten minutes; remove from range; add butter 
and vanilla; beat well and serve. 

SKIMMBD MUK and BUTTER STTBSTITDTB MAT BB USED IN ALL 
RECIPES EXCEPT THOSE CALLING FOR CREAM. 

107 



LEMON STRUP 

1 cup sugar 1 teaspoon butter 

H cup water 1 tablespoon lemon juice 

A slight grating lemon rind 

PROCESS: Boil water, sugar and lemon peel until 
it slightly thickens; add butter and lemon juice; beat 
with gem whip to blend butter; strain and serve at once 
with waffles or fritters. 



BOILED CUSTARD 

2 cups scalded milk H teaspoon salt 

4 egg yolks H tablespoon vanilla 

H cup sugar 

PROCESS: Beat yolks slightly; add sugar and salt; 
stir constantly while adding scalded milk slowly. Cook 
in double boiler. Continue stirring until mixture thickens 
the consistency of thin cream. Chill and flavor. Do not 
allow the water in double boiler to boil vigorously while 
cooking custard, as this will curdle the custard. Mixture 
should form a coating on wooden spoon ; it is then cooked 
sufficiently. 

GOLDEN SAUCE 

2 whole eggs 1 cup sugar 

1 egg yolk }4 teaspoon vanilla 

2 tablespoons sherry 

PROCESS: Beat eggs very light; add sugar gradu- 
ally; add flavoring and beat thoroughly. 



8inMMRT> MILK AND BUTTBR ST7BSTITUTB ICAT BB USBD IN ALL 
RBCEPES BXCBPT THOSE CALLING FOR CSSAII. 

108 



CHOCOLATE SAUCE 

2 cups milk 2 tablespoons hot water 

1 yi tablespoons cornstarch 2 eggs 

2 squares chocolate % cup powdered sugar 
H cup powdered sugar 1 teaspoon vanilla 

PROCESS: Reserve one-fourth cup of milk and 
scald the remainder. Dilute cornstarch with cold milk 
and add to scalded milk. Cook ten minutes in double 
boiler, stirring constantly. Melt chocolate over boiling 
water; add one-fourth cup sugar and hot water; stir 
to a smooth paste; add to cooked mixture. Beat whites 
of eggs stiff, add powdered sugar slowly and continue 
beating. Then add yolks slightly beaten; add to first 
mixture. Cook two minutes; cool slightly and flavor. 

MOLASSES SAUCE 

1 cup Palmetto molasses 2 ^ tablespoons lemon juice 

2 tablespoons butter or malt vinegar 

PROCESS: Cook molasses and butter together 
five minutes; remove from range and add lemon juice 
or vinegar. 

HARD SAUCE 

H cup butter H teaspoon vanilla 

1 cup powdered sugar Nutmeg 

H teaspoon lemon extract 

PROCESS: Cream butter in earthen bowl with 
wooden spoon; add sugar slowly , beating constantly; 
add flavoring. Brandy may be substituted for extracts. 
Force mixture through pastry bag with rose tube on a 
cold plate; sprinkle with nutmeg; keep in cool place 
until ready to serve. 

SKIMMED MILK, AND BUTTER SUBSTITUTB MAT BE USED Df ALL 
BSCIPBS EXCEPT THOSE CALLING FOR CREAM. 

109 



<'NEAR'' HARD SAUCE 

yi cup butterine 1 tablespoon brandy 

1 cup powdered sugar ^ cup whipped condensed 

1 teaspoon vanilla milk or cream 

PROCESS: Cream butterine, add sugar slowly, 
alternately with whipped milk or cream. Add flavoring 
slowly also while beating constantly. Serve very cold. 
See Page 106, "To Whip Condensed Milk." 



APPLE SAUCE 
For Puddings 

1 cup chopped apple 1 tablespoon lemon juice 

1 tablespoon cornstarch Grated rind H lemon 

Few grains salt Cinnamon 

a cup cold water Sugar 

PROCESS: Sift cornstarch over apples, add salt, 
cold water, lemon juice and rind. Add cinnamon and 
sugar to taste. Cook ten minutes. Rub through a sieve 
and serve hot with steamed puddings. 

APRICOT SAUCE 

H cup apricot pulp or H cup orange juice or water 

1 cup apricot juice 1 teaspoon cornstarch 

H cup sugar 1 tablespoon lemon juice 

Few grains salt 

PROCESS: Mix ingredients in the order given and 
boil gently ten minutes, stirring constantly. Strain 
through coarse sieve and serve with hot puddings, 
dumplings, etc. 



ffTTififfim lOLK AND BUTTBR SUBSTTTUTB MAT BB USBD DT ALL 
RBCIPES EXCEPT THOSE CALLING FOR CBEAM. 

110 



"ITALIA" SAUCE 

2 tablespoons butter ^ cup boiling water 

1 cup powdered sugar Juice and grated rind 1 lemon 

H tablespoon cornstarch H cup finely shredded 

Few grains salt Angelica or citron 

Yolks 3 eggs slightly beaten H cup candied cherries finely cut 

PROCESS: Cream butter, add half the sugar and 
cornstarch sifted together. Add remaining sugar to 
beaten egg yolks; combine mixtures; add boiling water 
slowly, stirring constantly. Cook three minutes, con- 
tinue stirring. Add remaining ingredients, bring to 
boiling point and serve with steamed fruit, suet or plum 
pudding. 



SKIMMBD MILK AND BUTTER SUBSTITUTB MAT BB USED IN ALL 
RBCIPES EXCEPT THOSE CALLING FOR CREAM. 

Ill 



CHAPTER VI. 



CORNSTARCH CAKE 

H cup butter or butter substitute 2 cups flour 
2 cups fine cake sugar 4 H teaspoons baking powder 

1 cup milk Whites 5 eggs 

1 cup cornstarch H teaspoon each lemon and 

vanilla extract 

PROCESS: Cream the butter with a wooden spoon 
in an earthen mixing bowl; add sugar gradually; sift 
cornstarch, flour, salt and baking powder together 
twice; add alternately to first mixture with milk; lastly 
cut and fold in the whites of eggs beaten until stiff; add 
extract. Turn mixture into two brick-shaped bread 
pans, buttered and floured. Bake forty^five minutes in 
moderate oven. Frost with boiled frosting or serve 
without frosting. 

BOILED FROSTING 

1 cup granulated sugar H cup cold water 

H teaspoon cream tartar 1 egg white beaten stiff 

H teaspoon vanilla extract 

PROCESS: Mix well, sugar, cream tartar and cold 
water in a saucepan, place on range, bring to boiling 
point, stirring constantly until sugar is dissolved; then 
cook without stirring until the syrup drops from wooden 
spoon like honey. Remove from range, add three table- 
spoons of syrup to the white of egg, beating constantly 
until well blended; return remaining syrup to range and 
cook until it will spin a thread; remove from range at 
once and pour syrup in a fine stream into first mixture. 

ggTMT^ffun lOLK AND BUTTER SUBSTITUTB MAT BB USED IN ALL 
BBCIFBS EXCBPT THOSB CALLING FOR CRSAM. 

112 



Continue beating, add vanilla. Beat until frosting cools 
slightly and begins to glaze on sidea of pan. Pour on 
cake, spread evenly, let cool before cutting cake. 

BOSTON VELVET CAKE 

^ cup butter or butter substitute 4 teaspoons baking powder 

1 yi cups fine granulated sugar ^ teaspoon salt 

Yolks 4 egg^ Whites 4 eggs 

yi cup cold water H teaspoon almond extract 

1 H cups flour H cup blanched and shredded 

H cup cornstarch almonds 

PROCESS: Cream butter, add sugar gradually, 
yolks o^ eggs beaten very light and water. Sift the flour, 
cornstarch, salt and baking powder; add to first mixture. 
Lastly, cut and fold in the whites of eggs beaten stiff; 
add extract; turn mixture into a buttered and floured, 
shallow cake pan. Sprinkle almonds over the top of 
cake. Bake thirty-five minutes in a moderate oven. 
Do not frost this cake. 



gTrnfiffun MILK AND BUTTER SUBSTFTUTB MAT BE USED IN ALL 
RECIPES EXCEPT THOSE CALLING FOR CREAM. 

113 



ANGEL FOOD WITH CORNSTARCH 

1 cup white of eggs \i cup cornstarch 

1 cup fine granulated sugar ^ teaspoon cream of tartar 

% cup pastry flour 1 teaspoon vanilla extract 

PROCESS: Beat whites of eggs until foamy; add 
cream of tartar and beat until stiff and dry; add sugar 
gradually while beating constantly; add vanilla; then 
cut and fold in flour and cornstarch previously sifted 
together five times. Turn into an unbuttered angel food 
pan. Bake in a slow oven .from thirty to fifty minutes, 
according to the size of the pan. Invert pan on a cake 
cooler and allow cake to cool, loosen and fall out. 



LITTLE QUEENS 

yi cup shortening (butter) 1 cup pastry flour 

Grated rind 1 lemon ^ cup sifted com flour 

1 cup sugar H teaspoon salt 
Yolks 4 eggs ^ teaspoon soda 

2 tablespoons lemon juice Whites 4 eggs 

PROCESS: Cream shortening; add sugar gradually 
and continue stirring. Then add grated rind, lemon 
juice and yolks of eggs, beaten until thick and lemon 
tinted. Sift together flours, salt and soda; add to first 
mixture and beat thoroughly. Then cut and fold in the 
whites of eggs beaten until stiff. Fill small buttered 
muffin tins two-thirds full of mixture and bake twenty 
to twenty-five minutes in a hot oven. 



SKIMMBD MILK AND BUTTER SUBSTTrUTE MAT BE USED IN AIL 
RBCIPES EXCEPT THOSE CALLING FOR CREAM. 

114 



WAR TIME DROP CAKES 

}i cup shortening (chicken fat) 1 H cup pastry flour 

1 cup sugar % cup corn flour 

1 ^gg well beaten }i teaspoon salt 

Grated rind 1 orange 4 teaspoons baking powder 

}i cup strained orange juice }i cup shredded citron or 

H cup chopped nut meats 

PROCESS: Cream shortening; add sugar gradually 
while stirring constantly. Add egg beaten until thick and 
lemon tinted, grated rind and orange juice. Sift together 
flour, com flour, salt and baking powder. Add dtron 
or nut meats, then stir into first mixture. Mix well. 
Drop by teaspoonfuls one and one-half inches apart on a 
well greased baking sheet and bake twelve to fifteen 
minutes in a hot oven. When eggs are plentiful add 
another one to mixture. 



CORN MEAL DOUGHNXTTS 

1 cup fine corn meal or corn flour H teaspoon soda 

% cup white flour H cup sour milk 

^ cup sugar 1 tablespoon melted shortening 

}i teaspoon salt 1 egg 

yi teaspoon nutmeg Flour 

PROCESS: Heat milk and poiu* it over com meal; 
add melted shortening, sugar, salt and nutmeg. Sift 
soda with flour, add to first mixture, beat thoroughly, 
then fold in the egg beaten until thick and lemon tinted; 
add sufficient flour to make a soft dough. Chill dough, 
then roll to one-half-inch thickness and shape with a 
doughnut cutter. Fry in deep, hpt fat. Drain on brown 
paper, when cool dredge with powdered sugar. 



SKTMMTtP MILK AND BUTTER SUBSTTrUTE MAT BE USED IN ALL 
RECIPES EXCEPT THOSE CALLING FOR CREAM. 

115 



CORNSTARCH CREAM PUFFS 

}i cup butter 1 cup cornstarch 

1 cup milk 4 eggs 

PROCESS: Bring half of the milk to boiling point; 
add butter and when melted stir in cornstarch diluted 
with remaining milk. Stir vigorously until mixture is 
smooth. Remove from range and add unbeaten eggs, 
one at a time, beating until thoroughly blended between 
the addition of eggs. Drop by spoonfuls (the size of a 
small egg) on a buttered sheet one and one-half inches 
apart, shaping with the handle of a wooden spoon in 
circles, having each slightly piled in center. Bake thirty 
minutes in a moderate oven. With a thin sharp knife 
make a cut in the side of each puff large enough to 
admit of cream filling. This recipe will make one and 
one-half dozen cakes. If cream cakes are removed from 
oven before being baked through they will fall. If in 
doubt, remove one from the sheet and it if does not fall 
it is sufficient evidence that the others are baked through- 
out. 

CREAM FZLLING 

fi cup sugar 2 eggs 

4 tablespoons cornstarch 1 eg^ yolk 

}i teaspoon salt 2 cups scalded milk 

1 teaspoon vanilla 

PROCESS: Mix the dry ingredients; add eggs and 
egg yolk slightly beaten and pour on slowly scalded milk 
while stirring constantly, until nuxture thickens, after- 
wards occasionally. Cook fifteen minutes, cool and add 
vanilla. Use as filling between layers of cake as for 
Cream Cakes. 



SKIMMSD MILK AND BUTTER SUBSTITUTE MAT BE USED IN AIL 
RECIPES EXCEPT THOSE CALLING FOR CREAM. 

116 



POPPED CORN MACAROONS 

H cup finely chopped popped }i teaspoon salt 

com ^ teaspoon vanilla 

H tablespoon melted butter Blanched and finely chopped 
White 1 egg almonds 

53i tablespoons sugar Candied cherries 

PROCESS : Add butter to corn ; beat white of egg 
until stiff; add sugar gradually; continue beating. Add 
to first mixture; add salt and vanilla. Drop from tip of 
teaspoon on a well buttered baking sheet one and one- 
half inches apart. With the spoon shape in circles and 
flatten with a knife, first dipped in cold water. Sprinkle 
with chopped nut meats and press a shred of candied 
cherry in top of each macaroon. Bake in a slow oven 
tmtil daintily browned. 

CORN FLAKE KISSES 

Beat two eggs until thick and lemon tinted; add 
gradually one cup sugar, beating constantly. Add two 
and three-fourths cups com flakes and one cup chopped 
nut meats, mix thoroughly. Add a sprinkle of salt. Drop 
in generous teaspoonfuls in rounds on a buttered cooky 
sheet one and one-half inches apart. Bake twenty min- 
utes in a slow oven. Maple flakes are sometimes used 
in place of the plain com flakes. 



SinMMRT> HHJC AlTD BT7TTER SUBSimrTB ICAT BE USED IN ALL 
RBCIPBS EZCBPT THOSB CALLING FOR CRBAM. 

117 



POPCORN BRITTLE 

3 cups brown sugar H cup butter or butter 

1 cup N. O. molasses substitute 

3^ teaspoon cream tartar 2 teaspoons soda 

2 tablespoons hot water 
1 quart freshly popped com 

PROCESS : Boll the first three ingredients in an iron 
kettle to the "hard crack" degree (310 degrees F.), i- e., 
when a little of the syrup is dropped into ice water it will 
form a hard ball and when pressed between the teeth it 
will not sticky but will leave them clean and free from 
taffy; add butter and when it is well blended add pop- 
corn; stir it well. Remove from range, add soda dis- 
solved in hot water, stir briskly; when mixture begins 
to rise turn it on an oiled or butter marble slab or platter; 
spread thin and evenly ; when cold break in small pieces. 

POPCORN BARS 

1 quart freshly popped com ^ cup water 

1 cup sugar 1 tablespoon butterine or butter 

a cup com syrup 1 teaspoon salt 

PROCESS: Carefully pick over fresh popped com, 
discarding all unpopped kernels. Pass through meat- 
chopper, using coarse knife; sprinkle with salt. Into a 
kettle put sugar, prepared com and water; cook until 
candy cracks when tested in cold water (about 270 
degrees F., on sugar thermometer) . Add butter and cook 
until candy is very hard when again tested in cold water 
(ice-water is preferable). Add com, stir until thoroughly 
blended. Retum to range to warm slightly and pour 
on an oiled marble slab or an enameled tray and with a 
slightly oiled rolling-pin roll as thin as possible. (This 
operation must be done quickly.) Cut in bars or squares. 
If it becomes too hard to cut break in small pieces. 

SKIMMED MILK AND BUTTER SUBSTITUTE MAY BE USED IN ALL 
RECIPES EXCEPT THOSE CALLING FOR CREAM. 

118 



MAPLE POPCORN BALLS 

3 quarts freshly popped com ^ cup brown sugar 

1 cup melted maple sugar 1 tablespoon butter or 

Salt butterine 

PROCESS: Carefully pick over popped com, dis- 
carding all unpopped kernels. Melt butter or butterine 
in a large, round-bottom, iron kettle (an old-fashioned 
type if one is available) ; a large granite kettle will serve 
the purpose. Add maple syrup and sugar; bring to 
boiling point and cook until mixture will crack when 
tested in cold water. Sprinkle com with salt; pour 
candy slowly over prepared popped com while stirring 
briskly. Shape with slightly buttered hands quickly and 
little pressure into balls. When cool wrap in waxed paper. 
To prepare maple sugar, shave or break in small pieces, 
then measure. To one cup sugar add one-half cup of 
water and cook until the consistency of symp. This will 
be found more satisfactory than conrnierdal maple 
syrupy notwithstanding the extra trouble. 

POPCORN BALLS 

1 H cups sugar 2 tablespoons butterine 

5 H tablespoons glucose }i teaspoon salt 

H cup water 5 quarts freshly popped com 

H cup (good) molasses 

PROCESS: Into a kettle put sugar, glucose and 
water; stir until sugar is melted; wash down sides of 
kettle, cover and cook gently five minutes; uncover and 
cook without stirring imtil when a little is tested in cold 
water it will crack (about 275 to 280 degrees F.). Add 
remaining ingredients except popped com and continue 
cooking tmtil very brittle when again tested in cold 

8KIMMBD MILK AND BT7TTER SUBSTITUTB ICAY BB USBD HI ALL 
RSCIPES EZCBPT THOSE CALLING FOR CREAM. 

119 



water. Stir occasionally at first then, constantly. 
Carefully pick over com, discarding all unpopped kernels. 
Put com in a hot mixing bowl slightly buttered, sprinkle 
with salt and stir briskly while pouring the taffy over it. 
Mix well, then roll in balls with as little pressure as pos- 
sible. Pile in a pyramid on a buttered platter. 

PARCHED SWEET CORN 

2 cups sweet seed com Salt 

4 tablespoons butter or olive oil Boiling water 

PROCESS: Pick over com, removing all imperfect 
kernels and bits of cob. Put com in sieve and pour 
boiling water over it. Drain on crash towel. Melt butter 
in iron spider, add com and stir constantly until each 
kernel is delicately browned and puffed. Drain on brown 
paper, sprinkle with salt. Shake com in a coarse sieve to 
get ride of superfluous salt. Serve same as salted nuts. 
If one cup of com is parched at a time it will brown more 
evenly. 



PLEASE READ THESE BULLETINS 

(They will prove very valuable to you) 

Fanner's Bulletin No. 565. U. S. Dept Agr. Com Meal as a Food 
and Ways of Using. By C. F. Langworthy and Caroline Hunt 

Fanner's Bulletin No. 298. Printed in 1907 — Food Value of Com 
and Com Products. By Charles D. Woods, D. Sc., Director of 
Maine Agricultural Experiment Station. 

The latter bulletin will prove invaluable to those who are especially 
interested in teaching Household Economics — which includes Thrift 
and Conservation of Food. 

8KTMMKD MILK AND BT7TTER 8X7BSTITUTB MAT BE USED HI ALL 
RBCIPBS EZCBPT THOSE CALLING FOR CREAM. 

120 



MEMORANDUM 



121 



MEMORANDTJM 



122 



INDEX 

Bread — ^Alabama Pumpkin Com 67 

Blueberry Corn 65 

Boston Brown 46 

Boston Brown with Fruit 47 

Com, with Creamed Clams 65 

Com (New Orleans Recipe) 54 

Com Meal and Graham 51 

Com Meal Date 48 

Crackling Com Bread 56 

Creamed Com 64 

"Delicia" Com Meal and Brown Rice Griddle Cakes 31 

Eggless Com, No. 1 69 

Eggless Com, No. 2 69 

Indfian Meal (with yeast) 60 

Indian Meal and Rye Meal 49 

Kentucky Spoon Com 62 

Knoxville Corn 66 

Molasses Com 68 

Old Fashioned Com (Southern Recipe) 65 

Old Virginia Batter 60 

Pone Com 16 

Quick War Bread 46 

Raised Brown Bread, No. 2 60 

Rice and Com Meal Spoon 62 

South Carolina Spoon Com Bread 63 

Southern Com 63 

Steamed Brown 47 

Sweet Corn 65 

Thin Com 68 

Virginia Spoon Corn 63 

White Corn Meal 68 

Cakes — ^Angel Food with Cornstarch 114 

Apple Johnny 64 

Boston Velvet 113 

Cornstarch 112 

Custard Com 63 

Flannel, No. 1 34 

Flannel, No. 2 36 

Luncheon Johnny 64 

Rhode Island Jonnny 17 

Sour Milk Corn 30 

Sponge Corn, No. 1 60 

Sponge Corn, No. 2 60 

Spider Corn 67 

Virginia Corn 76 

War Time Drop 115 

Chowder— Corn 87 

Cones — Cocoanut with Chocolate Sauce 100 

Com and Bacon 84 

Com a la Mexican 71 

Com Croquettes 79 

123 



Com Flake Kisses 117 

Com Meal for Crumbing Fidi 26 

Com Oysters 75 

Com Relish 89 

Com Soutfaem Style 71 

Com Timbales 79 

Com Toast 84 

Com with Cream 67 

Com Sti€ks 28 

Cornstarch Blanc Mange with Condensed Milk 103 

Cornstarch Cream Puns 116 

Cream Com Meal Gems 24 

Creamed Com au Gratin 78 

Crispys. Com Meal 17 

Custard— BoOed 108 

Com 80 

Kornlet 80 

Dodgers— Cora Meal, No. 1 14 

Cora Meal, No. 2 15 

Doughnuts — Cora Meal 115 

Fritter*— Cherry 105 

Cora and Celery 74 

Cora and Oyster 75 

Cora, No. 1 73 

Cora, No. 2 73 

Sweet Cora, No. 3 74 

Ftosting-^Boiled 112 

Creamed Filling 116 

Gnocchi a la Romaine 42 

Gnocchi au Gratin 43 

Griddle Cakes— Cora Meal and Buckwheat 33 

Cora Meal and Rice (Sour Milk) 30 

Cora Meal and Rice (Sweet Milk) 31 

Cora Meal, No. 1 32 

Cora Meal, No. 2 29 

Green Cora, No. 1 83 

Green Cora, No. 2 83 

Hominy 36 

Left Over Granulated Hominy 34 

"Pete's" Cora Meal 33 

Scalded Cora Meal 32 

Green Com— Boiled 66 

Au Gratin 78 

Cooked in Milk 66 

Creole 69 

Fried 68 

Green Peppers Stuffed with 77 

New England Style (Sweet Cora) 72 

Parched Sweet Cforn 120 

Roasted 66 

Scrambled with Eggs 82 

Soup 86 

Steamed, on the Cob 67 

124 



Green Com — Continued ^ 

Stewed 68 

Tomatoes Stuffed with 76 

To Can Sweet Com 91 

To Cook Dried Corn 91 

To Dry Corn 90 

To Sweeten Green Com When Boiling 67 

Waffles 82 

Hash — Cora 89 

Hominy — Casserole of, with Meat 42 

Granulated Hominy Crusts 37 

With Horse-Radish Croquettes 38 

Balls 38 

Boulettes 41 

Croquettes 37 

Crusts 43 

PuflF 40 

Waffles, No. 1 35 

Waffles, No. 2 36 

With Tomatoes 39 

Pearl, with Minced Ham 39 

Savory 37 

Steamed Pearl 13 

Indian Bannocks 16 

Indian Meal Flapjacks 17 

Jolly Joe 48 

Little Queens 114 

Mold— Chocolate 104 

Cocoanut 100 

Cornstarch Fruit. 100 

Mammy's Pumpkin 61 

Mufans — Cora Meal and Barley Meal 26 

Cora Meal and Rice 24 

Corn Meal, No. 1 22 

Cora Meal, No. 2 22 

Corn Meal with Rice 23 

Cream Corn 24 

Currant 23 

Dainty Cora Meal 25 

Fried Cora Meal 49 

Hominy and Corn Meal 27 

Hominy , 28 

Raised Corn 51 

Rich Corn Meal 26 

Mush — Corn Meal with Lemon Flavor 12 

Fried Corn Meal 11 

Fried, Fairmont Style 12 

Norfolk Waffles 36 

Omelet— Cora 81 

Patmhans 13 

Philadelphia Scrapple 20 

126 



Polenta — with Cheese 19 

With Mushroom Sauce 18 

Spanish 19 

Pone— -Cora Bread 15 

Cora 61 

Onion Cora 20 

Popoven — Cora Meal 26 

P^»ipets 28 

Popcom — Maple Balls 119 

Balls 119 

Bars 118 

Brittle 118 

Macaroons 117 

Podding— Apple and Brown Bread 93 

Baked Cora Meal 96 

Baked Indian and Apple 98 

Baked Indian Meal 95 

Baked Indian 94 

Baked Indian, with Sweet Apples 94 

Colonial Indian Suet 92 

Corn Meal with Pearl Tapioca 96 

Cora Meal with Cocoanut 99 

Cora Meal Yorkshire 29 

Cora 82 

Date Cora Meal 98 

Delicate Indian Meal 97 

Economical Cornstarch (without Eggs) 101 

Elizabeth 102 

Golden Cornstarch 99 

Green Cora , 81 

Hasty 11 

Hot Cornstarch 101 

Indian Meal 93 

Indian Rice 97 

Individual Corn Meal 96 

Ivory Cornstarch 99 

Pineapple 102 

Popped Cora 106 

Rebecca Cornstarch 103 

Royal Chocolate 104 

Steamed Indian Meal 92 

Rolls — Parker House Corn 27 

Raised Cora Flour Parker House 52 

Salad— Corn 88 

Corn and Tomato 88 

Samp — au Gratin 40 

Steamed. 14 

Sauces — ^Apple for Puddings 110 

Apricot 110 

Bechamel 44 

Cheese 46 

Cherry 106 

126 



Sauces — Continued 

Chocolate 109 

Cocoa 101 

Golden 108 

Hard 109 

"Italia" Ill 

Molasses 109 

Mushroom 18 

"Near" Hard 110 

Thin White 41 

Tomato 44 

Vanilla 107 

Whipped Cream 106 

Scalloped Com 72 

Scrapie with Liver Sausage 21 

Snow Balls with Chocdate Sauce 103 

Souffle-^om Meal 107 

lorn with Tomatoes 86 

Com with Whipped Cream 86 

Cream of Com 86 

Green Com * 86 

Steamed Com Meal 47 

Stewed Com and Tomatoes 73 

Substitutes to use for Buttering Crumbs 46 

Succotash 69 

With Tomatoes 70 

Tomatoes Stuffed with 77 

Southern 70 

gyrup — ^Lemon 108 

To Whip Condensed Milk 106 



127 



