Historic, Archive Document 


Do not assume content reflects current 
scientific knowledge, policies, or practices. 


ane 





| 


2 / 
Lo 


A: The Duasheeiw 





AN ELEVEN-POUND HILL OF DASHEENS. 


The tops, roots. and soil have been removed. Note the two 
large central corms and the numerous attached cormels, 
or tubers. Dasheen corms are usually more mealy 
than the tubers, though in general character 
there is little difference. The flavor is 


suggestive of chestnuts. 


Wools, IANS obs 


HE DASHEEN is a valuable starchy vegetable 
which has come into our Southern horticulture 
from the Tropics. It is an especially fine- 

flavored variety of the taro, a staple food crop of 
the Orient. It is similar in composition to the 
white potato, though it is firmer and contains about 
half as much again of protein and of starch. 
Dasheens properly grown have, when baked or 
boiled, something of the dryness, mealiness, and 
flavor of the chestnut. They are prepared, in gen- 
eral, like potatoes, and are cooked in the same 
length of time or a little less, When cooked they 
not infrequently are of a grayish or violet color, 
which characteristic is often associated with the 
highest quality. 

In appearance the dasheen plant strongly re- 
sembles the ordinary elephant-ear, or caladium, 
of the garden, and is, in fact, closely related to it 
although of a different botanical species. The 
edible part of the plant consists of one or more 
large underground corms and a number of cormels, 
or ‘‘tubers,’’ of much smaller size. The corms are 

2 


usually somewhat more mealy than the tubers when 
cooked, though in general the quality is much the 
same. 

There are large areas in the South Atlantic and 
Gulf regions of the United States in which the 
dasheen can be grown more successfully than other 
food ‘crops, but a demand for this exceptionally 
valuable vegetable must be created in order to 
encourage its commercial cultivation. Those who 
can not grow dasheens can materially assist in 
creating this demand and in establishing a new 
industry in the South by purchasing and using 
them when they are to be obtained on the market. 





A FOUR-ACRE FIELD OF DASHEENS IN CENTRAL FLORIDA SHORTLY 
BEFORE HARVEST TIME. 


The production from this field was 296 bushels of corms 
and tubers per acre. 


PREPARATION OF DASHEENS FOR THE TABLE. 
Dasheens are commonly baked or boiled in the 
skin, after simply scrubbing them lightly. Un- 
cooked dasheens contain minute crystals of calcium 
oxalate, which are more or less irritating to the 


3 


skin of most persons. It is advisable, therefore, 
not to taste raw dasheens and, as a preventive 
measure when scraping them, to keep the hands 
wet with water containing a level teaspoonful of 
sodium carbonate (washing soda) to the quart. It 
is not generally necessary to use soda in ordinary 
paring. 





HALF OF A DASHEEN CORM, STUFFED. 
An attractive method of serving this delicious vegetable. 


BAKED DASHEENS.—In baking dasheens a moderate oven 
is required,—about the same as for potatoes. The time 
needed for cooking dasheens is usually a little less than that 
for potatoes of the same size; those weighing more than a 
pound may be cut in half from top to base before baking. The 
dasheens may be (1) baked in the skin, or (2) scraped, though 
it is generally better to bake in the skin. 

1. For baking in the skin, clean the dry dasheens, by pulling 
off the loose fiber or by rubbing it off with a brush or cloth. 
Corms and large tubers should be parboiled; place in nearly 
boiling water, and boil for 10 to 20 minutes. As parboiling 
reduces the time required for baking, there need be no waste 
through the forming of a hard crust. When done, SERVE 
IMMEDIATELY. Season with salt and plenty of butter; add 
pepper if desired. Gravy may be used in place of butter. 

Baked corms may be served in the “‘half-shell’’; place a piece 
of butter in a hole in the center of the cut surface. Small 
half corms may be served as individual portions. 

2. Scraped dasheens may be cooked in one of three ways: 
(1) roasted with meat; (2) rubbed with fat and baked; (3) 
immersed in nearly boiling water long enough to heat through, 
and haked. With the last two methods a particularly delicious 


4 


soft crust is formed, provided the dasheens have not been 
baked either too quickly or too long. Serve immediately. 

BOILED DASHEENS.—Hither large dasheens (corms) or 
small ones (tubers) may be used for boiling. The water may 
be salted. The dasheens should be boiled in the skins, and 
may be served thus or with the skins removed. They need 
not be cooked quite so long as potatoes of the same size; it is 
well to test with a fork or knitting needle. 

The small tubers are especially good if, immediately after 
being boiled and peeled, they are placed in the oven just long 
enough to melt a dressing of butter over them. 


RICED DASHEENS.—Boil the dasheens in their skins. Re- 
move the skin immediately and with a strong, wrought-iron- 
handled, plunger-type ricer, rice the dasheens into a heated 
dish. Seasoning, such as salt and butter, may be stirred into 
the riced dasheen, or, may be added to successive layers 
without stirring. Milk or cream may be beaten in if desired, 
but prepared in this way the dasheen will not be so light. 





HALF OF A MEAT-FILLED DASHEEN CORM. 


A unique and appetizing dish. The corm tis hollowed out, 
parboiled, stuffed with cooked meat, and then baked. It 
is cut into two or more parts when served. 


MEAT-FILLED DASHEEN CORMS.—Corms, three inches 
in diameter and upward, are used for this purpose. Clean the 
corm thoroughly, by scraping or with a stiff brush. Cut the 
base off squarely so the corm will stand upright. With the aid 
of a paring knife and an apple corer cut a cylindrical hole, at 
least 1; inches in diameter, from the top to within three- 
quarters of an inch of the bottom; save the top of this core 


a) 


to plug the top of the cavity. Hollow out the interior of the 
corm to make additional space for the filling, leaving the 
walls at least one-half inch thick. Parboil for 10 minutes in 
well-salted water. Fill with cooked chopped meat, well 
Seasoned and with plenty of fat, and replace the plug. Bake 
in a moderately slow oven until done. Do not overbake. Serve 
immediately. 


STUFFED DASHEENS.—Proceed the same as in baking, 
and then follow the method used for stuffed potatoes, using 
more butter, however. Corms large enough for serving in 
halves are usually cut from top to base. If, after baking, the 
upper part of the corm remains hard, this part should be taken 
out and discarded. 


SCALLOPED DASHEENS.—Pare and slice raw dasheens, 
putting the slices in layers into a buttered baking dish, and 
seasoning each layer with butter, salt, etc. A few thinslices 
of onion added brings out the dasheen flavor. Latticework 
slices of dasheen, made with a fluted slicer, are a little more 
attractive in appearance than the plain ones, and they do not 
mat together. Nearly cover with rich milk, and bake. Scal- 
loped dasheens require only about two-thirds as much time in 
cooking as scalloped potatoes. When corms are used for 
scalloping, it is well to discard about three-quarters of aninch 
of the upper, or bud end, as it may be tough after cooking. 
On account of the firm texture of the dasheen, a slicer with 
the sliding guard made of wood, rather than of tin, is desirable 
if a fluted slicer is used. 

This method of serving the dasheen will be found particular- 
ly well adapted for banquets or formal dinners; and in such 
cases individual baking dishes should be used if practicable. 


DASHEENS AU GRATIN.—Proceed as for scalloped dash- 
eens, but use less butter and add grated cheese. Add bread 
crumbs to the top layer. 


FRIED DASHEENS.—Slice boiled dasheens, either warm 
or cold, season with salt, and fry quickly. Use more fat than 
in frying potatoes, but do not fry as long, for the dasheens are 
likely to become dry and hard. French fried dasheens are 
also exceedingly good if not over-fried. 


SARATOGA DASHEEN CHIPS.—Saratoga dasheen chips 
are made in the same wayas potato chips. Pareraw dasheens 
andif wet dry them. Slice evenly about one-sixteenth inch 
thick and soak in plenty of water for from one to two hours; 
change the water once. Dry the slices between cloths, then 
fry in deep fat to a straw color. Place the chips on clean 
paper so that the excess fat may be drawn from them. Salt 


6 


immediately when taken from the hot fat. The chips will 
keep for some time without becoming rancid if fried ina 
good vegetable fat or oil. 





SARATOGA DASHEEN CHIPS. 
One of the most delicious of dasheen dishes. The chips are 
prepared like potato chips, but they take 
up much less fat. 


DASHEEN CRISPS.—Dasheen crisps are especially recom- 
mended. They are made by cutting paredraw dasheens into 
latticework slices, as for scalloped dasheens, or into fluted 
slices, and frying slowly to a straw color in deep fat. Drain 
on clean paper, and salt immediately. (Somewhat better re- 
sults are secured by soaking the slices for an hour or more 
and drying them between cloths before frying. The use of 
vegetable fats or oils is advised,) 


DASHEEN FRITTERS.—Use 1 cup of grated or finely ground 
raw dasheen; 1 cup of white flour; 1 tablespoonful of sugar; 4 
teaspoonful of salt; 2 teaspoonfuls of baking powder; 4 cup of 
milk. Mix the dasheen and the dry ingredients, and add the 
milk. Drop heaping teaspoonfuls into deep hot fat and fry to 
a golden brown. Sprinkle with powdered sugar, and serve im- 
mediately; or, serve with maple or sugar sirup. These fritters 
make one of the most thoroughly delicious of all dasheen 
dishes, 


DASHEEN SALAD.—Boil medium-sized or small dasheens 
in the skin and proceed as for potato salad. The addition of 


7 








onion improves the salad. It is veryimportant to prepare the 
dasheens while still warm and to add the dressing at once. 





DASHEEN SALAD, GARNISHED WITH LETTUCE AND MINCED PARSLEY. 


Prepared in the same way as potato salad, this dish will 
appeal particularly to salad lovers. 


DASHEENS AS. FILLING FOR FOWL AND OTHER 
MEATS.—Two cups of boiled dasheens riced, mixed with one 
cup of bread or cracker crumbs, one egg, two tablespoonfuls 
of butter, and seasoned to taste with salt, pepper, sage, and 
onion, make a particularly delicious filling comparable to that 
made with chestnuts. 


For additional recipes, or other information concerning the 
dasheen, address: 


UNITED STATES DEPARTMENT OF AGRICULTURE, 
BUREAU OF PLANT INDUSTRY, 
OFFICE OF FOREIGN SEED AND PLANT INTRODUCTION, 
WASHINGTON. 


October 3, 1918. 


