ICM 



. : co 



TROPICAL DISEASES 




1 egra. An n&\ sh cas. diagnosed by Dr. Sa nbon. 

,< produced by permission cf the ' l Welle me' Bureau i\f Scientific 
Research.) 



TROPICAL DISEASES 

A MANUAL OF THE DISEASES 
OF WARM CLIMATES 



BY 

SIR PATRICK MANSON 

G.G.M.G., M D., LL.D. (ABERD.) 

Fellow of the Royal College of Physicians, London; Fellow of the 

Royal Society ; Hon. D.Sc. Oxon. ; Foreign Associate of the 

Academic de Medecine, France ; Honorary Member of the 

Soctete de Medecine de Gand ; Hon. Associate of the Roya 

Academy of Medicine, Turin ; Consulting Physician to the 

Seamen's Hospital Society ; Lecturer in the London School 

of Tropical Medicine ; late Medical Adviser to the 

Colonial Office and to the Crown Agents for the 

Colonies, etc. etc. 



WITH 12 COLOUR AND 4 BLACK-AND-WHITE PLATES 
AND 254 FIGURES IN THE TEXT 



Sixth Edition, Revised throughout and 
Enlarged 




CASSELL AND COMPANY, LIMITED 

London, New York, Toronto and Melbourne 
1919 



/ / First Edition, May 1898 

Reprinted July and September 189S, January 1S99 
New Revised Edition, 1900. Reprinted January 1001 

New Edition, April 1003 

Reprinted August 1003, October 1004 

Revised and Enlarged Edition, August 1907 

Reprinted March 1908, August 1000, Jl/arcfc 1011, JfarcA 1012 

Revised and Enlarged Edition, Jlfay 1914 

Revised and Enlarged Edition, October 1917 

Reprinted January 1918, February 1919 



ALL RIGHTS 



PREFACE TO THE SIXTH EDITION 

ALTHOUGH the Fifth Edition of this Manual was 
published less than three-and-a-half years ago, the 
advances made in Tropical Medicine in the interval 
are of sufficient importance to have demanded a 
careful revision of the text and the provision of 
further illustrations. Among the more important 
accessions to our knowledge are those relating to 
the extracorporeal life-history of Schistosomum hcema- 
tobium, which we owe to the researches of Dr. 
Leiper, and the demonstration that dengue is con- 
veyed by Stegomyia calopus. I have removed the 
chapter on Rat-Bite Disease from the section 011 
General Diseases of Undetermined Nature to that 
on Fevers ; and contrariwise the chapter on Pellagra, 
which in the Fifth Edition appeared in the latter 
section, has now been transposed to the former. 
The revision of the chapter on Mosquitoes and of 
the articles 011 Tse-tse Flies and Ticks was kindly 
undertaken by Lieut. -Colonel Alcock, while in the 
chapter on Pellagra I have had the assistance of 
Dr. Sambon. My best thanks are due to them both ; 
nor must I omit acknowledgments to Dr. Leiper 
and Mr. G. C. Robson for allowing me. to reproduce 
illustrations that have appeared in the Journal of 
the Royal Army Medical Corps and the British 
Medical Journal ; to the Editors of those journals ; 
and to Dr. John Bell for placing at my service a 
number of valuable photographs. 

September, 1917. 



PREFACE TO THE FIRST EDITION 

A MANUAL on the diseases of warm climates, of 
handy size, and yet giving adequate information, has 
long been a want; for the exigencies of travel and 
of tropical life are, as a rule, incompatible with 
big volumes and large libraries. This is the reason 
for the present work. 

While it is hoped that the book may prove of 
practical service, it makes no pretension to being 
anything more than an introduction to the important 
department of medicine of which it treats ; in no 
sense is it put forward as a complete treatise, or as 
being in this respect comparable to the more elaborate 
works by Davidson, Scheube, Rho, Laveran, Corre, 
Roux, and other systematic writers in the same 
field. 

The author avails himself of this opportunity to 
acknowledge the valuable assistance he has received, 
in revising the text, from Dr. L. Westenra Sambon 
and Mr. David Rees, M.R.C.P., L.R.C.P., Superin- 
tendent, London School of Tropical Medicine. He 
would also acknowledge his great obligation to Mr. 
Richard Muir, Pathological Laboratory, Edinburgh 
University, for his care and skill in preparing the 
illustrations. 



CONTENTS 

Introduction 



PAOK 

THE ETIOLOGY OP TROPICAL DISEASES . . xv 



Section I. Fevers 

CHAPT R 

1. MALARIA 1 

2. MALARIA : THE MICROSCOPICAL EXAMINA- 

TION OF THE BLOOD .... 32 

3. MALARIA : DESCRIPTION OF THE PARASITES 

AND THEIR ASSOCIATED FEVERS . . 50 

4. MALARIA : MORBID ANATOMY AND PATHO- 

LOGY 81 

5. MALARIA : MALARIAL CACHEXIA, ETC. . 91 

6. MALARIA : ETIOLOGY . . . .100 

7. MALARIA: DIAGNOSIS . . . .113 

8. MALARIA: TREATMENT . . . .119 

9. MALARIA : THE MOSQUITO . . .137 

10. TRYPANOSOMMJSIS OF MAN . . . 154 

11. LEISHMANIASIS . . . . 203 

12. RELAPSING FEVER ..... 228 

13. YELLOW FEVER . . . . .250 

ix 



x CONTENTS 

CHAPTER PAGE 

14. BLACKWATER FEVER .... 275 

15. DENGUE 293 

16. PHLEBOTOMUS FEVER .... 304 

17. SPOTTED FEVER OP THE ROCKY MOUNTAINS 310 

18. JAPANESE RIVER FEVER (SHIMA MUSHI) . 315 

19. RAT-BITE DISEASE 319 

20. PLAGUE 320 

21. UNDULANT FEVER 362 

22. TYPHOID FEVER IN THE TROPICS, AND 

TYPHO-MALARIAL FEVER . . . 376 

23. IMPERFECTLY DIFFERENTIATED FEVERS OF 

THE TROPICS 384 

24. HEAT-STROKE 392 

Section II. General Diseases of Undeter- 
mined Nature 

25. BERIBERI (KAKKE, BARBIERS) . . . 407 

26. EPIDEMIC DROPSY 433 

27. PELLAGRA 437 

Section III. Abdominal Diseases 

28. CHOLERA . . . . .456 

29. DYSENTERY 490 

30. EPIDEMIC GANGRENOUS RECTITIS . . 544 

31. HILL DIARRHOEA . . 546 



CONTENTS xi 

CHAPTER PAGE 

32. SPRUE (PsiLOSis) 549 

33. TROPICAL LIVER 568 

34. ABSCESS OF THE LIVER .... 573 

35. INFANTILE BILIARY CIRRHOSIS . . 609 

Section IV. Infective Granulomatous 
Diseases 

36. LEPROSY (ELEPHANTIASIS GR^CORUM) . 611 

37. YAWS (FRAMBCESIA) . . . .652 

38. VERRUGA PERUANA . . . .669 

39. ULCERATING GRANULOMA OF THE PUDENDA 673 

Section V. Animal Parasites and 
Associated Diseases 

40. PARASITES OF THE CIRCULATORY AND LYM- 

PHATIC SYSTEMS 679 

41. PARASITES OF THE CIRCULATORY AND LYM- 

PHATIC SYSTEMS (concluded) . . . 742 

42. PARASITES OF THE CONNECTIVE TISSUE . 766 

43. PARASITES OF THE LUNGS . . . 794 

44. PARASITES OF THE LIVER . . .800 

45. INTESTINAL PARASITES . . . 808 

Section VI. Skin Diseases 

46. NON-SPECIFIC, BACTERIAL, AND FUNGOUS 

SKIN DISEASES, ETC 861 



xii CONTENTS 

Section VIL Ackee Poisoning 

CHAPTER PAGE 

47. THE VOMITING SICKNESS OF JAMAICA . 909 

Section VIII, Local Diseases of Uncertain 
Nature 

48. CRAW-CRAW CHAPPA CLIMATIC BUBO 

GOUNDOU JUXTA-ARTICULAR NODULES 

AINHUM BIG HEEL ONYALAI . .911 

Appendix 

SOME OF THE COMMONER PARASITIC PROTOZOA 

OF VERTEBRATES AND INVERTEBRATES . 924 

INDEX 951 



LIST OF PLATES 



PELLAGRA : AN ENGLISH CASE (Colour) . Frontispiece 

FACING PAGE 

PLATE 1 (Colour) . . . . . .58 

MALARIA PARASITES. 

PLATE 2 (Colour) .64 

MALARIA PARASITES. 

PLATE 3 (Colour) 192 

LAMUS MEGISTUS. 

PLATE 4 (Colour) . . . . 198 

TSE-TSE FLIES. 

PLATE 5 (Colour) . . . ... 208 

PARASITES OP KALA-AZAR AND ORIENTAL 

SORE. 

PLATE 6 (Colour) 246 

TICKS (Females). 

PLATE 7 (Colour) 274 

STEGOMYIA CALOPUS (FASCIATA). 

PLATE 8 510 

MICROSCOPICAL SECTION OP THE LARGE 
INTESTINE IN BACILLARY DYSENTERY. 

PLATE 9 (Colour) ...... 552 

SPRUE TONGUE, ACUTE AND CHRONIC STAGES. 



xiv LIST OF PLATES 

PAGE 

PLATE 10 (Colour) . . . . . 680 

MlCROFlLARIJS OF THE BLOOD. 

PLATE 11 (Colour) . . . . .68* 
DISTINGUISHING FEATURES BETWEEN MF. 
BANCROFTI AND MF. LOA IN STAINED 
SPECIMENS. 

PLATE 12 (Colour) 690 

STEGOMYIA PSEUDOSCUTELLARIS. 

PLATE 13 744 

TERMINAL-SPINED EGG OF SCHISTOSOMUM 

H^MATOBIUM. LATERAL-SPINED EGG OF 

SCHISTOSOMUM MANSONI. 

PLATE H 758 

SCHISTOSOMUM JAPONICUM IN VESSELS OF 
MESENTERY. EGGS OF SCHISTOSOMUM 
JAPONICUM EMBEDDED IN WALLS OF 
APPENDIX VERMIFORMIS. 

PLATE 15 888 

TINEA IMBRICATA. 



INTRODUCTION 

THE ETIOLOGY OF TROPICAL DISEASES 

THE title which I have elected to give to this work, 
TROPICAL DISEASES, is more convenient than accurate. 
If by " tropical diseases " be meant diseases peculiar 
to the tropics, then half a dozen pages might have 
sufficed for their description; for, at most, only 
two or three comparatively unimportant diseases 
strictly deserve that title. If, on the other hand, 
the expression " tropical diseases" be held to in- 
clude all diseases occurring in the tropics, then the 
work would require to cover almost the entire range 
of medicine ; for the diseases of temperate climates 
are also, and in almost every instance, to be found in 
tropical climates. 

I employ the term "tropical " in a meteorological, 
rather than in a geographical, sense, meaning by it 
sustained high atmospheric temperature ; and by 
the term " tropical diseases " I wish to indicate 
diseases occurring only, or which from one circum- 
stance or another are specially prevalent, in warm 
climates. 

It must not be inferred from this, however, that 
high atmospheric temperature is the sole and direct 
cause of the bulk of tropical diseases. The physio- 
logical machinery of the human body is so adjusted 
that great variations of atmospheric temperature can 
be supported by man with impunity. Indeed, although 
temperature acts as an important pathogenic factor, 
it is very rarely that it does so directly. Extreme 
cold may cause frost-bite; exposure to the sun, sun 
erythema, sun headache, and symptomatic fever ; a 
hot atmosphere, heat-exhaustion ; prolonged residence 
in hot moist climates, vague, ill-defined conditions of 
debility ; profuse sweating from heat of climate, 



xvi INTRODUCTION: ETIOLOGY 

prickly heat. But none of these states can with 
justice be regarded as disease. 

This being so, it is natural to ask : In what 
way do tropical influences affect disease, as they 
undoubtedly do ; and why should it be that some 
diseases are peculiar to tropical climates, or are 
specially prevalent in such climates'? 

Speaking generally, the natives of tropical coun- 
tries are not injuriously affected by the meteorological 
conditions of the climates they live in, any more than 
are the inhabitants of more temperate climates ; their 
physiological activities are attuned by heredity and 
habit to the conditions they were born into. The 
European, it may be, on his first entering the tropics, 
and until his machinery has adjusted itself to the 
altered meteorological circumstances, is liable to slight 
physiological irregularities, and this more especially 
if he persist in the dietetic habits appropriate to his 
native land. A predisposition to certain diseases, 
and a tendency to degenerative changes, may be 
brought about in this way ; but acute disease, with 
active tissue change, is not so caused. In the tropics, 
as in temperate climates, in the European and in the 
native alike, nearly all disease is of specific origin. It 
is in their specific causes that the difference between 
the diseases of temperate climates and those of tropical 
climates principally lies. 

Modern science has clearly shown that nearly all 
diseases, directly or indirectly, are caused by germs. 
It must be confessed that although in many instances 
these germs have been discovered, in other instances 
they are yet to find ; nevertheless, their existence 
in the latter may be confidently postulated. 

Germs are living organisms, and, like all living 
things, demand certain physical conditions for their 
well-being. One of these conditions is a certain 
temperature ; another is certain media ; and a third 
is "certain opportunities. 

In the majority of instances disease germs are 
true parasites, and therefore, to keep in existence as 
species, require to pass from host to host. If, during 
this passage from host to host, the temperature of the 



INTRODUCTION: ETIOLOGY xvii 

transmitting medium be it air, water, or food be 
too high or too low for the special requirements of 
the germ in question, that germ dies and ceases to be 
infective. In this way may be explained the absence 
from the tropics of a class of directly infectious dis- 
eases represented by scarlet fever, and the possible 
absence from temperate climates of a similar class of 
diseases. In the one case, during the short passage 
from one human being to another, tropical tempera- 
ture is fatal to the air-borne germ ; in the other it 
may be that the lower temperature of higher latitudes 
has the same effect. 

In another type of disease, of which tropical scaly 
ringworm (tinea imbricate) is an excellent example, the 
germ vegetates on the surface of the body, and is thus 
exposed to the vicissitudes of climate. One of the 
requirements of the germ referred to is a high atmo- 
spheric temperature and a certain degree of moisture. 
Given these it nourishes ; remove these and it dies 
out, just as a palm tree or a bird of paradise would 
die on being transferred to a cold climate. 

Many diseases require for their transmission 
from one individual to another the services of a 
third and wholly different animal. The propaga- 
tion and continued existence of a disease of this 
description will depend, therefore, on the presence 
of the third animal. If the latter be a tropical 
species, the disease for the transmission of which 
it is indispensable must necessarily be confined 
to the tropics. Thus the geographical range of 
malaria and of filariasis is determined by that of 
certain species of mosquito which ingest and act as 
alternative hosts to the respective germs, and, so to 
speak, prepare them for entrance into their human 
host. The distribution of a large number of animal 
parasitic diseases depends in this way on the dis- 
tribution of these alternative hosts. When this 
animal happens to be a tropical species, the disease 
it subtends, so to speak, is, in natural conditions, 
necessarily tropical also. 

Certain diseases are common to man and the lower 
animals. If these latter happen to be tropical species 



xviii INTRODUCTION : ETIOLOGY 

the opportunities for man to contract the common 
disease are most frequent, or are only found, in 
the tropics. Such, most probably, are some of the 
tropical ringworms. 

Certain parasites are so organized that before re- 
entering man they must pass a part of their lives as 
free organisms in the outer world, where they require 
a relatively high temperature for their development. 
Such parasites, therefore, and the diseases they give 
rise to, must necessarily be tropical or sub- tropical. 
The Ankylostomum duodenale and ankylostomiasis 
are an instance in point. 

There is a class of intoxication diseases which 
depend on toxins generated by germs whose habitat is 
the soil, water, or other external media, and whose 
germs do not enter the human body as a necessary 
feature in their life-histories, although their toxins 
may. The yeast plant 'and its toxin, alcohol, and 
the disease it causes, alcoholism, are the most familiar 
example of this. Such, too, are ergotism, atriplicism, 
and perhaps lathyrism. These germs require certain 
temperatures and certain media; consequently the 
diseases they produce have a corresponding geogra- 
phical range. If one of these conditions be a high 
temperature, the disease is mainly a tropical one. 

Lastly, I can conceive, and believe, that there is 
another and less directly-acting set of conditions influ- 
encing the distribution of disease conditions which 
as yet have been ignored by epidemiologists, but 
which, it seems to me, must have an important bear- 
ing on this subject. Disease germs, their transmitting 
agencies, or their intermediate hosts, being living 
organisms, are, during their extracorporeal phases, 
necessarily competing organisms, and therefore liable 
to be preyed upon or otherwise crushed out by other 
organisms in the struggle for existence. The malaria 
parasite is absent in many places in which, appar- 
ently, all the conditions favourable to its existence 
are to be found in perfection. Why is it not found 
there, seeing that it must certainly have been fre- 
quently introduced ? I would suggest that in some 
instances this and other disease germs, or the organ- 



INTRODUCTION: ETIOLOGY xix 

isms subtending them, are kept under by natural 
enemies which prey on them, just as fishes prey on 
and keep down water-haunting insects, or as mice do 
humble-bees. The geographical range of such disease 
germs, therefore, will depend, not only on the pre- 
sence of favourable conditions, but, also, on the 
absence of unfavourable ones. Herein lies a vast 
field for study, and one which, as yet, has not been 
touched by epidemiologists. 

In these and similar ways the peculiar distri- 
bution of tropical diseases is regulated. The more 
we learn about these diseases the less important in 
its bearing on their geographical distribution, and 
as a direct pathogenic agency, becomes the rdle of 
temperature per se, and the more important the 
influence of the tropical fauna. 

Whatever may have been the original source of 
the pathogenic parasites of man, it is certain that 
many of those which have a wide distribution at the 
present day were much more restricted originally. 
The extension of many of them has occurred within 
historical, and of some even in recent, times. Thus, 
in the last century, cholera spread over a great part 
of the world from its reputed home in India. Small- 
pox and other Old- World diseases have crossed the 
Atlantic; and some originally American diseases, 
such as syphilis and the chigger, have appeared in 
the Old World ; measles, whooping-cough, tubercu- 
losis, and leprosy have been introduced into the 
Pacific Islands. The process of diffusion is still 
proceeding, assisted, doubtless, by the vastly in- 
creased rapidity and frequency of modern travel, 
and by the breaking down in recent times of social, 
political, and physical barriers that formerly iso- 
lated many communities, some of which had been 
from time immemorial the sole repositories of par- 
ticular disease germs. Thus the sleeping sickness of 
West Africa is passing to East Africa, and thus, 
most probably, the yellow fever of America will 
pass to Asia. 

There is one factor which undoubtedly has con- 
tributed powerfully to delay the diffusion of certain 



xx INTRODUCTION: ETIOLOGY 

tropical diseases the circumstance that most of 
them depend on protozoal or some other kind of 
animal germ requiring for its transmission an animal 
intermediary. Diseases which depend on bacterial 
germs, if their special bacterium be introduced, social 
and sanitary conditions being favourable, will spread 
in any country or climate, and thus it is that all 
bacterial diseases, with hardly an exception, are 
found, or are capable of existing, everywhere; in 
the passage from host to host their germs are not 
killed by ordinary atmospheric conditions, and they 
require no second intermediary. Diseases depend- 
ing on protozoa or other animal germs, in many 
though not in all instances, will not establish them- 
selves thus universally, because their germs in the 
passage from host to host demand, through their 
intermediaries or otherwise, very special and cli- 
matically restricted conditions. Tropical diseases 
belong for the most part to this category, and 
therefore their successful introduction and spread 
to new ground are attended with more difficulty 
than bacterial diseases, demanding, as the former 
generally do, the double condition of the successful 
introduction not only of the germ itself but also 
of the intermediary. 

Although this double necessity has undoubtedly 
operated powerfully against the spread of certain 
tropical diseases, there is reason to believe that in 
time this difficulty will disappear ; for, so far as we 
know, there is no reason why, if introduced into new 
places, these animal intermediaries should not obtain 
a permanent footing and spread. 

There are many instances of exotic insects, for 
example, which have established themselves after 
either accidental or intentional introduction into 
new countries. There is no reason, therefore, for 
thinking that disease -germ insect intermediaries 
could not be similarly established in countries in 
which they are unknown at present. Thus, if the 
tse-tse flies were successfully introduced into India, 
sleeping sickness might appear there in due course ; 
or, if appropriate anopheles were introduced into 



INTRODUCTION: ETIOLOGY xx 

many at present malaria-free and salubrious Pacific 
islands, malaria would become established there. 
And thus, though certain tropical diseases have at 
present a limited range, there is great probability, 
unless measures are speedily set on foot to prevent 
such a calamity, that the swift and increasing inter- 
course of modern times, by facilitating the intentional 
or accidental introduction of their subserving inter- 
mediaries, will ere long enable them to extend their 
present geographical range. 

It is evident from what has been advanced that the 
student of medicine must be a naturalist before he can 
hope to become a scientific epidemiologist, or patholo- 
gist, or a capable practitioner. The necessity for this 
in all departments of medicine is yearly becoming more 
apparent, but especially so in that section of medicine 
which relates to tropical disease. This is further 
accentuated if we reflect that, although we do know 
something about a few of the tropical diseases and 
their germs, there must be many more tropical diseases 
and tropical disease germs about which we know 
absolutely nothing. Who can doubt that just as the 
fauna and flora of the tropical world are infinitely 
richer in species than those of colder climates, so 
there is a corresponding distribution in the wealth 
and poverty of pathogenic organisms ; and that many, 
if not most, of the tropical diseases have yet to 
be differentiated 1 The discoveries of the last few 
years show this. Opportunities and appliances for 
original pathological study are, from circumstances, 
too often wanting to the tropical practitioner > but 
in this matter of the etiology of disease he cer- 
tainly enjoys opportunities for original research 
and discovery far superior in novelty and interest 
to those at the command of his fellow-inquirer in 
the well-worked field of European and American 
research. 

In the following pages I have included certain cos- 
mopolitan diseases, such as leprosy, plague, and beri- 
beri, diseases which, properly speaking, do not depend 
in any very special way, or necessarily, on climatic 
conditions. They have been practically ousted from 



xxii INTRODUCTION: ETIOLOGY 

Europe and the temperate parts of America by the 
spread of civilization and the improved hygiene that 
has followed in its train. They are now virtually 
confined to tropical and sub-tropical countries, where 
they still survive under those backward social and 
sanitary conditions which are necessary for their 
successful propagation, and which are more or less an 
indirect outcome of tropical climate. 



TROPICAL DISEASES 



Section I. FEVERS 



CHAPTER I 
MALARIA 

Definition. Morbid conditions produced by certain 
protozoal parasites belonging to the class Sporozoa, 
whose definitive host is the mosquito, and whose 
intermediate host is man and, possibly, other verte- 
brates. In man these parasites inhabit the red blood- 
corpuscles, giving rise to fever usually of a periodic 
character, anaemia, enlargement of the. spleen, and 
the deposit of a black pigment in the viscera and 
elsewhere. Some of their phases are amenable to 
quinine. 

HISTORY 

The history of malaria goes back to times of 
remotest antiquity. Already in the fifth century B.C. 
Hippocrates recognized the existence of periodic 
fevers^ and divided them into quotidian, tertian, 
subtertian, and quartan. Galen, Celsus, and other 
Roman writers also gave accurate descriptions of 
these fevers. 

From the classic period until about the middle 
of the seventeenth century there was no material 
advance in knowledge regarding malaria, but the 
introduction of cinchona in 1640 enabled Morton 
and Tort to separate the malarial fevers from other 
febrile diseases, and to show that some continued and 
remitting fevers belong to the same group as the 
intermittents. 

The next important step was the discovery of the 
characteristic pigmentation of the viscera in malaria. 



2 MALAEIA [CHAP. 

In 1847 Meckel described certain pigment-bearing 
cells which he had found in the spleen and in the 
blood at the post-mortem of a patient who had died 
of malaria. Virchow was able to confirm this obser- 
vation, and Planer in 1854 noted these pigmented 
cells in fresh blood f torn the finger of malarial patients. 
These cells were, of course, the malarial parasites, 
although their true nature was not apprehended at 
the time. 

The parasitic nature of malaria, which had been 
suspected since the days of Varro and Columella, was 
definitely established by Laveran, who in 1880, having 
noticed the eruption of long motile filaments from 
the pigmented cells described by Meckel and Planer, 
was the first to recognize their parasitic character. 

Laveran's observations were soon extended by 
Marchiafava, Celli, Golgi, Bignami, Bastianelli, and 
other investigators, but especially by Golgi, who 
demonstrated the definite correlation between the 
development of the parasites and the periodicity of 
the fever paroxysms, and showed that the different 
types of malarial fever correspond to different species 
of parasites. 

The association of the malarial parasites with cer- 
tain mosquitoes, suggested by epidemiological facts, 
and by certain phases in the life-history of the 
parasite indicating the necessity of alternation of 
generations, together with a change of host as in 
other hsemoparasites, was definitely established by 
Ross's investigations and the experiments carried out 
by the Italians and ourselves. 

Finally, the application of these recent discoveries 
to the diagnosis and prevention of malaria has led 
to practical measures which have already been fruit- 
ful in good results and promise yet more. 

PROOFS THAT THE MALARIA PARASITES ARE 
THE CAUSE OF MALARIAL DISEASE 

It is now placed beyond doubt that the presence 
and proliferation in the blood of these parasites 
are the cause of what was formerly and is still 
known as "malarial disease." The following is a 



i] THE PARASITES 3 

summary statement of the principal reasons for this 
belief : 

1. The occurrence of the parasites in the blood 
is practically always, sooner or later, associated with 
the clinical phenomena of malarial infection. 

2. Malarial fever throughout, or at one time or 
another during its course, is invariably associated 
with the presence of one or other of these parasites 
in the blood. 

3. The phases of a malarial fever bear a definite 
relation to the phases of the life-cycle of the par- 
ticular parasites present in the blood. 

4. That absolutely characteristic feature of ma- 
larial disease, malarial pigmentation of viscera, is 
fully accounted for by the pigment-forming property 
of the parasites. 

5. Intravenous or subcutaneous injection of blood 
from a case of malarial infection that is, of blood 
containing the parasite is generally, after an in- 
cubation period of eight to twelve days, followed by 
an attack of malarial fever, and by the appearance 
in the blood of the person injected of the same species 
of malaria parasite. 

6. The administration of quinine, which brings 
about the cessation of the clinical symptoms of acute 
malarial infection, rapidly causes most phases of the 
parasite to disappear from the blood. 

7. If, after they have imbibed malarial blood, 
certain species of mosquitoes be dissected at serial 
intervals, the evolution of the malaria parasite can be 
followed in their tissues until, finally, the germs of 
the parasite can be tracked into the cells and secre- 
tion of the salivary glands of the insect. 

8. If, after a week or thereabouts, a similarly-fed 
mosquito bite a hitherto uninfected man, in many 
instances, after a few days, that man will exhibit 
the clinical phenomena of malarial infection and the 
characteristic parasite in his blood. 

9. A non-immune, if effectually protected against 
mosquito bite, will not contract malarial disease, how- 
ever long he may live in highly malarious localities. 

The proof of the causal relationship of the para- 



MALARIA 



[CHAP. 



site to the disease may therefore be said to be 
complete. 

MORPHOLOGY AND HISTOLOGY 

There are several species of malaria parasites. 
The distinctive characteristics of each of these will 
be detailed in Chap. III. The following brief de- 
scription is confined to what may be regarded as the 
generic features common to all. 

The three phases. The malaria parasite, 
like all true parasites, must be adapted not only for 
a life inside its hosts, but also, in order that its con- 
tinuance as a species may be assured, for a passage 
from one host to another. Consequently, as regards 
man, it exhibits two distinct phases an intracor- 




Fig. 1. Evolution of the tertian parasite, unstained (see text). 

poreal and an extracorporeal. Clinical observation 
and analogy make it certain that there is yet an- 
other phase, also intracorporeal the latent phase, 
whose characters as yet can only be conjectured. 

INTRACORPOREAL OR HUMAN CYCLE 

Each species of malaria parasite has its special 
and more or less definite intracorporeal life-span or 
cycle of twenty-four hours, of forty-eight hours, or of 
seventy-two hours. 

On examining microscopically malarial blood to- 
wards the end of one of these cycles, an hour or two 
before the occurrence of a paroxysm of the charac- 
teristic periodic fever it induces, the parasite may be 



i] THE PARASITE: HUMAN CYCLE 5 

recognized as a pale, somewhat ill -defined disc of 
protoplasm occupying a larger or smaller area within 
a proportion of the red blood -corpuscles (Fig. 1, a). 
Scattered through this pale body are a number of 
intensely black or reddish-black particles an excre- 
mentitious material called heemozoin.* 

Changes in the parasite. By making 
fresh blood preparations and repeating his examin- 
ations at short serial intervals, the observer is 
enabled to infer that the following changes system- 
atically occur in this disc of pigmented protoplasm. 
After a time, as the parasite matures, the scattered 
hsemozoin particles collect into little groups, sometimes 
into radiating lines.. These heemozoin groups subse- 
quently concentrate into one or two larger and more 
or less central blocks, around which the pale proto- 
plasm of the parasite arranges itself in minute 
segments which finally acquire a globular form and 
appear as well-defined spherules (Fig. 1, 6, c, d). 
The including blood corpuscle then breaks down, 
and the spherules, none of which contains hsemozoin, 
fall apart, and, along with the clump or clumps of 
haemozoin, become free in the liquor sanguinis (Fig. l,e). 
The phagocytes now quickly absorb the hsemozoin and 
many of the spherules. A proportion of the latter, 
escaping the phagocytes, attach themselves to other 
blood corpuscles, which they contrive to enter (Fig. 
I,/). In the interior of these newly infected cor- 
puscles the young parasites exhibit active amoeboid 
movement, shooting out and retracting long pseudo- 
podia, and growing at the expense of the haemo- 
globin (Fig. 1, g). This substance they assimilate, 
converting it into the pale protoplasmic material 
constituting the mass of the parasite and into the 
haemozoin particles (Fig. 1, h, i). As the parasite 
becomes larger its amoeboid movements gradually 
slow down until all motion finally ceases ; just 
before the formation of spherules and completion 
of the cycle (Fig. 1, j), beyond slight translation 

* The term "haemozoin," suggested by Sambon, is here em- 
ployed instead of " melanin " hitherto in use, which has a definite 
and different physiological meaning. The term " black pigment " 
is vague and incorrect. 



6 



MALARIA 



[CHAP. 



movement of the hsemozoin particles, the parasite is 
passive. 

Structure of the parasite. By appropriate 
staining of the free spherule (Fig. 2, b, c, d) it 
is found to consist of a minute, deeply tinted 
chromatin mass, the nucleolus, surrounded by an un- 
stained area regarded by many as a vesicular nucleus, 
and this again by a somewhat lightly tinted covering of 
protoplasm. After the spherule has entered a blood 
corpuscle (Fig. 2, e), staining shows that the vesicular 
nucleus has become larger and more distinct, that the 
protoplasm has increased in bulk, and that the deeply 
stained nucleolus, which is sometimes double, has 



a 




Fig. 2. Evolution of the tertian parasite, stained (see text). 

come to lie eccentrically in the nucleus, and both of 
them eccentrically in the protoplasm. On account of 
the relatively large size of the unstained nucleus, the 
eccentric position of the deeply stained nucleolus, 
and the narrow rim of stained protoplasm, the 
younger parasites look like so many minute blue 
signet-rings stuck on to the blood corpuscles. As the 
parasite grows and approaches maturity the nucleolus 
enlarges, becomes less denned, and then disperses ; 
the vesicular nucleus also becomes enlarged and less 
distinct (Fig. 2, /, g, A, i). Finally, just before 
sporulation, both nucleus and nucleolus cease to be 
distinguishable (Fig. 2, j, a). At this stage these 
elements become fragmented and diffused throughout 
the protoplasm. Later the nuclear elements reappear 
as numerous minute, scattered nucleoli ; and it is 



i] THE PAKASITE: MOSQUITO CYCLE 7 

around these that the protoplasm of the segment- 
ing parasite arranges itself to form the spherules 
(Fig. 2, b, c). The vesicular character of the nucleus 
does not usually appear in the spherules until after 
these have become free in the liquor sanguinis 
(Fig. 2, d). 

The hsemozoin particles, so characteristic of the 
malaria germ, occur as black or very dark-red dust- 
like specks, coarse grains, or short rods, either isolated 
or aggregated into larger or smaller, more or less 
dense clumps. Until the concentration of hsemozoin 
which precedes the formation of spherules takes place 
the particles are scattered, being located principally 
in the outer zone, or ectosarc, of the parasite. Ap- 
parently so long as the nucleus remains entire the 
hsemozoin is peripheral ; when segmentation occurs in 
the nucleus the hsemozoin becomes central. 

Such is a brief account of the cycle and structure 
of one phase of the parasite. From it we may 
understand how the parasite maintains itself and 
multiplies inside the human body. It does not 
explain, however, the two other important biological 
features which analogy and observation clearly indi- 
cate namely, its latency in, and its life outside, the 
human body. 

EXTRACORPOREAL OR MOSQUITO CYCLE 

As it is unreasonable to suppose that an organism 
which propagates so actively in the human body has 
no opportunity, either by passing from one host to 
another or in other ways, of continuing its species, 
we are forced to conclude that some provision must 
exist in the economy of the parasite that enables it 
to leave and enter successive hosts. The problems 
suggested by this consideration are first, how does 
the malaria parasite leave the human body ; second, 
what is its life when temporarily outside the human 
body ; and, third, how does the parasite re-enter the 
human body ? 

The flagellated body. When fresh malarial 
blood is examined some time after it has been mounted 
as a wet preparation, it is no unusual thing to see 



8 



MALARIA 



[CHAP. 



what is known as the " flagellated body " * (Fig. 3). 
Analogous bodies are found in all forms of malaria, 
both in those special to man and in the correspond- 
ing infections of other vertebrata. It is a strange- 
looking, octopus-like creature with long, actively- 
moving arms ; and, though composed of the same 
materials namely, colourless protoplasm and dark 
hsemozoin granules it differs in many respects from 
the ordinary forms of the parasite, more especially 
in the fact that it is not intracorpuscular, but free 




X 1000 DM. 

Fig. 3. Malaria parasite : flagellated body, stained. 

in the liquor sanguinis. The long, whip-like arms, 
numbering from one to six, or even more, are 
usually designated flagella or, more correctly, micro 
gametes. These are exceedingly delicate and pliant 
filaments, difficult to see not only on account of their 
delicacy but also on account of the rapidity of their 
movements. Sometimes bulbous at the free extremity, 

* The expressions " flagellated body " and " flagellum," ap- 
plied to this phase of the malaria parasite, though graphic 
enough, are somewhat misleading. The flagella of the malaria 
parasite are in no sense analogous to the flagella of the 
flagellata ; * they really function as spermatozoa. The proper 
zoological terms for this and the other phases of the malaria 
parasites are given at p. 28. 



ij FLAGELLATED BODY 9 

sometimes presenting one or more swellings in their 
continuity, the microgametes are three or four times 
as long as a blood corpuscle is broad. At first they 
are attached to the periphery of the pigmented 
central, more or less spherical body, which is about 
half the diameter of a red blood-corpuscle. Their 
movements are so vigorous that they double up or 
otherwise distort temporarily those corpuscles with 
which they chance to come in contact. Occasionally it 
may be observed that one or more of the microgametes 




- X 1000 DM 

Fig. 4. Malaria parasite : flagellated body and free-swimming microgamete. 

break away from the central sphere and swim free in 
the blood (Fig. 4), remaining active for a considerable 
time several hours, perhaps before finally vanish- 
ing. When swimming free in the plasma, and also 
while still attached to the sphere, the microgamete 
indulges in three kinds of movement : (a) an un- 
dulatory movement, evidently subserving locomo- 
tion ; (6) a vibratory movement, apparently provoked 
by contact with a resisting body, as a blood cor- 
puscle, for in such circumstances the little filament is 
sometimes seen to straighten itself out and quiver like 
a slender rod when it is struck on the ground ; (c) a 
B* 



10 MALARIA [CHAP. 

coiling -up movement, usually seen just before the 
microgamete finally ceases to move. 

It is of importance to bear in mind that these 
flagellated bodies are never seen in newly drawn 
blood, and that they come into view only after the 
slide has been mounted for some time ten to thirty 
minutes, or even longer, according to circumstances. 

Source of the flagellated body. Careful 
observation shows that the flagellated bodies are 
developed from a particular phase of the intracorpus- 
cular parasite, a phase which differs in form according 
to species namely, in certain types from what is 
known as the " crescent body " ; in other types from 
certain large intracorpuscular parasites closely re- 
sembling the mature parasite (Fig. l )t /)just prior to 
concentration of hsemozoin and segmentation. 

The crescent body. These bodies, and con- 
sequently the flagellated body, are not present in the 
blood at the commencement of a malarial infection, 
or necessarily, especially if it be long delayed, at the 
commencement of the recrudescence of a latent infec- 
tion. They come into the blood only after a week or 
ten days of acute clinical symptoms. At first few in 
number, and perhaps difficult to find, they gradually 
become more numerous and persist for days after the 
disappearance of the other forms of the parasile and 
the decline of the acute symptoms, and then gradually 
disappear. Unlike the other forms of the parasite, 
they are not affected by quinine. They may vanish 
from the blood after a week, or persist in it for six 
weeks or longer. They may be very numerous, 
several in every field of the microscope, or so scanty 
that many preparations may have to be searched 
before one is found. Not infrequently they cannot 
be discovered at all ; especially is this the case in 
malignant (subtertian) infections in the tropics, 
although, strange to say, when the same patients 
suffer a relapse in Europe it is generally easy enough 
to find the crescent body in the blood. 

The shape, size, and structure of the crescent 
body can best be comprehended from the illustra- 
tion (Fig. 5). It exhibits no amoeboid movements. 



i] CRESCENT BODIES 11 

The principal features to be noted are its very 
definite crescentic shape ; the probable existence 
of a delicate limiting membrane; the presence of 
needle-shaped haemozoin particles, usually about the 
centre of the parasite, though sometimes nearer one 
end ; and a bow-like and exceedingly delicate line 
that, springing from a point somewhat inside the 
rounded-off tips of the horns of the crescent, bridges 
its concavity. Manifestly this bow represents the 
outline of the remains of the blood corpuscle in 




Fig. 5. Malaria parasite : the crescent body ; stained, (x 1,000.) 

which the parasite had developed. In many in- 
stances, especially in stained specimens, the con- 
tinuation of the red blood - corpuscle can be dis- 
tinctly traced around the convexity of the crescent. 
This circumstance, together with the fact that the 
material included by the bow, and also occasionally 
seen as a delicate, sometimes slightly jagged fringe 
around the convexity of the crescent, gives the 
staining reactions of haemoglobin, proves that this 
form of the malaria parasite, like the ordinary 
amoaboid bodies already described, is also intracor- 
puscular. Slight differences, particularly as regards 



12 MALARIA [CHAP. 

the sharpness or obtuseness of the horns, occur ; but, 
on the whole, the crescents are very uniform in 
appearance. Very rarely twin or double crescents 
that is, two crescents in one corpuscle are en- 
countered (Fig. 6). 

Crescents differ in appearance according to their age; 
in some the hsemozoin granules are scattered through- 
out the parasite, in others they are concentrated, and 
in a third class the protoplasm shows vacuolation and 
other signs of degeneration. The first, it is believed, 
are young and immature, the second mature, and the 
third effete parasites. In the first, the hsemozoin rods 
sometimes exhibit slight translation as well as vibra- 
tory movements; in the two 
latter the hsemozoin is quies- 
cent. The first, or younger, 
type of crescent stains uni- 
formly; but in the second 
type the staining, in many in- 
stances, is markedly bipolar, a 
clear, unstained area occupy- 
ing the middle of each horn, 
whilst a zone of stained proto- 
? - 6 ^n SSiSS"" P^sm forms the periphery, 
and a bridge of stained ma- 
terial divides the two horns at the centre of the 
crescent. By dissolving the hsemozoin particles at 
the centre of the crescent with weak solution of 
ammonia, and subsequently staining, a nucleolus, 
sometimes double, can be demonstrated. 

As will be shown in the sequel, these crescent bodies 
and the large intracorpuscular forms just alluded to are 
sexual in their functions. As regards the crescents, 
there are certain differences in the appearance of the 
protoplasm, in the arrangement of the pigment, and in 
the characters of the nucleus as revealed by staining, 
which are distinctive of the male and female crescents 
respectively. In one type of crescent the protoplasm is 
hyaline and the hsemozoin somewhat loosely arranged. 
In another type the protoplasm is faintly granular 
and the hsemozoin more concentrated, being arranged 
as a well-defined ring about the centre of the parasite. 




CRESCENT BODIES 



13 



The former is male, the latter female. The proto- 
plasm of the male parasite stains more deeply, and its 
nucleus is larger than that of the female parasite. 

The more immature forms of the crescent are said 
to begin to be recognizable in the spleen and bone 
marrow about the fourth day after a subtertian 
malarial attack commences. At first, according to 
Bastianelli and Bignami, they are minute, highly 
refringent amoeboid bodies. They are rarely en- 
countered in peripheral blood ; there the crescent 
body does not begin to show itself till it approaches 
maturity, about a week after the first crop of amoe- 
boid parasites associated with the fever paroxysm 
has appeared. 




Fig. 7. Evolution of the flagellated body from the crescent. 

Formation of the flagellated foody. 

Ordinarily, if a number of crescent bodies are kept for 
a time under observation on the microscope slide a 
certain proportion of them will be seen slowly, or 
more rapidly, to undergo change of shape, gradually 
becoming converted into squat crescents, then into 
oval bodies, and then into spheres (Fig. 7, a, b, c), 
whilst the remains of the enclosing blood corpuscle 
fall to pieces or melt away. The remains of the 
blood corpuscle are often seen as a small, slightly 
haemoglobin-tinted globule lying in contact with or 
near the parasite. The crescent-derived spheres are 
of two types in correspondence with the sex of the 
particular crescent from which they originate, some 
the male having hyaline, others the female having 



14 



MALARIA 



[CHAP. 



granular protoplasm (Fig. 8). At first the hsemozoin 
particles in the crescent, in the oval body, and in 
the sphere are motionless and central ; more rarely 
they are eccentric. By and by, in many of the spheres 
these particles tend to arrange themselves as a ring, 
lying in contact with the inner surface of what 
may be a very tine, invisible membrane, occupying 




Fig. S. Subtertian parasite, showing male and female gametes 
approximated. 

(From a preparation by Dr. F. W. O'Connor.) 

the central third of the sphere, and forming, as it 
were, a small central sphere within the larger sphere 
After a time in the hyaline spheres the hsemozoin 
particles begin at first slowly and intermittently, 
afterwards more energetically to dance about. As 
the movement of the pigment increases in rapidity 
and energy the entire sphere seems to partake in the 
agitation to quiver, to change form, and to be jerked 
about as by some unseen force. The haemozoin particles 



i] FORMATION OF FLAGELLATED BODY 15 

may now become diffused through the general mass 
of the sphere (Fig. 7, d), or they may not. Whether 
this does or does not happen, the agitation of the 
sphere now becoming intense, one or more filaments 
are suddenly shot out from its periphery and at once 
begin to indulge in characteristic waving, lashing 
movements (Fig. 7, e)* The granular spheres do 
not project these filaments or microgametes. 

In stained preparations it can be shown that the 
process of microgamete formation is preceded by frag- 
mentation of the nucleus, the chromosomes proceed- 
ing to the periphery of the sphere and each becoming 
surrounded by a portion of protoplasm. The micro- 
gamete, therefore, is composed of these two elements 
drawn out into a thread a chromatin filament en- 
closed in a covering of protoplasm. In the granular 
spheres there is no fragmentation of nucleus or fila- 
ment formation, the minute nucleus remaining central 
surrounded by its circle of hsemozoin rods. 

The extruded microgametes, if they do not break 
away as already described, may continue to move for 
an hour, or even longer that is, if the flagellated 
body be not engulfed by a phagocyte, an occurrence 
very frequently witnessed. Finally, they slow down, 
cease to move, coil up perhaps, and then gradually 
fade from view. Should the microgametes succeed in 
breaking away, the remains of the flagellated body 
consisting of hsemozoin particles included in a smal 
amount of residual protoplasm, tend to assume a 
somewhat spherical, passive form, the hitherto violent 
changes of shape and the movement of the hsemozoin 
ceasing almost abruptly. 

In other types of malarial infection certain bodies 
(Fig. 9, a, d), which, but for the brisk movements of 
their hsemozoin, look like ordinary full-grown intra- 

* Careful focusing, especially of stained crescent-derived 
spheres, may sometimes show that for a short time before their 
eruption the microgametes exist preformed inside the limiting 
membrane of the sphere (Fig. 7, e). One can sometimes see a 
microgamete filament, in its efforts to erupt, carry this mem- 
brane in front of it, and, failing to break through, retract and 
perhaps renew the effort at another point. Doubtless, the agitated 
movements of the sphere are produced by the efforts made by 
the microgametes to break through this membrane. 



16 MALARIA [CHAP. 

corpuscular parasites prior to the formation of spores, 
may sometimes be seen to slip out from their en- 
closing corpuscles (Fig. 9, b, e). If these free para- 
sites are watched, in some instances the hsemozoin 
they contain is seen to indulge in violent dancing 
movements, the body of the parasite being at the same 
time agitated and jerked about. Finally, " flagella " 
(microgametes) may be suddenly projected from the 
periphery (Fig. 9, c,f), very much in the same way 
as they are projected from the periphery of the 
crescent - derived sphere. Manifestly, these large 




Fig. 9. a, 6, c, Evolution of the flagellated body in tertian fever ; 
d, e, f, evolution of the flagellated body in quartan fever 

spherical parasites and the flagellated bodies arising 
from some of them correspond to the crescent-derived 
sphere and crescent-derived flagellated body. 

Conditions favouring and retarding eruption of microgametes. 
Ross has shown that, provided the blood containing the crescent 
body be prevented from coming in contact with the air, as can 
be secured by pricking the finger through vaseline, evolution 
does not proceed. He has further shown that if the droplet 
of blood be exposed to the air for a minute or two before 
being mounted on a slide, the eruption of microgametes is 
markedly encouraged. Similarly, Marshall has shown that 
it is also favoured by mixing the blood with a trace of water. 
I find that by combining these methods namely, exposure to 
the air with slight aqueous admixture, as by breathing on the 
slip before applying the cover- glass it is generally easy to 
procure quickly, from crescent-containing blood, specimens of 
the flagellated body. Probably, although I have not experi- 
mented with this object in suitable cases, the eruption of 
microgametes will be favoured in the non-crescent-forming 
parasites by similar means. 



i] MOSQUITO-MALARIA THEORY 17 

In certain bloods the flagellated body is easily procured ; 
in others the opposite is the case. As regards the crescents, 
doubtless success depends in a measure on the degree of 
maturity of the parasite, young or effete crescents failing to 
evolve. There are other conditions affecting the process, 
however, which are as yet unknown. 

MOSQUITO-MALARIA THEORY 
Popular and early views. The idea that 
some relationship exists between the mosquito and ma- 
laria has long been entertained, not only by medical 
men but also by the inhabitants of malarial countries. 
In parts of Italy the peasants for centuries have believed 
that fever is produced by the bite of the mosquito a 
fact noted by Lancisi; and, as Koch has pointed 
out, in German East Africa the natives of the high- 
lands declare that when they visit the unhealthy 
lowlands they are bitten by an insect they call Mbu 
(mosquito), with the result that they get fever, which 
they also call Mbu. King and others long ago pointed 
out how a mosquito-malaria hypothesis could best 
explain such things as the connection of malaria with 
swamps and with high atmospheric temperatures ; 
the well-known danger of night exposure in malarial 
countries; the influence of trees, of an expanse of 
water, and of altitude on the diffusion of the germ ; 
and many other points. As to how the mosquito 
intervened they had no reasonable hypothesis to offer. 
Laveran, Koch, and Pfeiffer suggested that the mos- 
quito might stand in the same relation to the malaria 
parasite as it stands to the larva of Filaria bancrofti; 
but as to the particular phase of the parasite it 
subserved, and as to the exact way in which the insect 
operated, they were silent. 

A mosquito - malaria theory definitely 
formulated In 1894,* and again in 1896, I for- 
mulated a definite hypothesis on the subject. Being a 
parasite, the germ of malaria, to keep in existence as 
a species, must pass from host to host ; in other words, 
must at some time have an extracorporeal life. From 
the fact that the flagellated body does not come into 
existence until the blood has left the blood-vessels 

Brit. Med. Journ., December 8th, 1894; "Goulstouian 
Lectures," Brit. Med. Journ., March 14th, 21st, and 28th, 1896. 



18 MALARIA [CHAP. 

that is, until it is outside the body I concluded that 
the function, then unknown, of the flagellum lay out- 
side the human body, and that the flagellated body was 
the first phase of the extracorporeal life of the malaria 
parasite. As the parasite whilst in the circulation is 
always enclosed in a blood-corpuscle, and is therefore 
incapable of leaving the body by its own efforts, and 
as it is never, so far as known, extruded in the 
excreta, I concluded that it is removed from the cir- 
culation by some blood-sucking animal, most probably 
by some suctorial insect common in the haunts of 
malaria. This blood-sucker I believed to be the mos- 
quito, an insect whose habits seemed adapted for 
such a purpose, and whose distribution conformed to 
the well-ascertained habits of malaria. Further, 
basing my argument on what I had shown to be the 
fact in the case of Filaria bancroftij and on the 
peculiarities of the distribution of malaria, I reasoned 
that only particular species of mosquito were capable 
of subserving particular species of malaria parasite. 

Ross's observations. Ross, to whom I sug- 
gested the investigation of this hypothesis, first (1895) 
demonstrated the fact that when crescent-containing 
blood is ingested by the mosquito a large proportion of 
the crescents rapidly proceed tomicrogamete formation 
and to the emission of micr ogametes . Inl897he showed 
that, in a particular species of mosquito fed on malarial 
blood, living and growing malaria parasites containing 
haemozoin are to be found embedded in the stomach wall 
of the insects. Early in 1898 (as announced by me at 
the meeting of the British Medical Association, in Edin- 
burgh, in July, 1898) he showed that if a particular 
species of mosquito be fed on the blood of plasmodium- 
infected birds, the parasite, which both in habit and 
structure closely resembles the malaria parasite of man, 
enters the stomach wall of the insect, grows and spo- 
rulates there, and that the resulting sporozoites sub- 
sequently enter the salivary gland of the insect, and 
that the insect is then capable of infecting by its bite 
other birds. Ross further showed that only particu- 
lar species of mosquito could subserve the avian plas- 
modium in this way, and that the particular mosquito 



i] MOSQUITO-MALARIA THEORY 19 

in question was not efficient as regards another blood 
parasite of birds namely, hsemoproteus or as regards 
the malaria parasites of man. Thus, by direct ob- 
servation and by analogy, Ross distinctly, and first, 
proved that the extracorporeal phase of the malaria 
parasite is passed in particular species of mosquitoes, 
and, by analogy, that the parasite is transferred from 
man to man by the mosquito. 

MacCallum's discovery* A gap in Ross's 
observations was filled in by MacCallum, who showed, 

I 

/: ' 







r 



Yf7 



I 



Fig. 10. Hsemoproteus. (After Celli.) 

a, b, c, Evolution of maerogamete; c, fertilization by microgamete ; 
d, e, /, evolution of microgamete. 

principally by observations on hsemoproteus, also a 
malaria-like parasite of birds, that the function of the 
filament after it breaks away from the parent sphere, 
or flagellated body, is to impregnate (Fig. 10, c,f) the 
granular crescent-derived spheres, which then become 
transformed into sharp-pointed travelling vermi- 
cules. Doubtless, although the process has not been 
directly observed, it is in virtue of the locomoting 
and penetrating properties of the travelling vermicule 
that the malaria parasite is enabled to lodge itself, 
where Ross first found it, in the stomach wall of the 
mosquito. 



20 MALARIA [CHAP. 

Confirmation and extension of Ross's 
work. Ross's observations were quickly confirmed 
and elaborated by the Italians, by Daniels, and by 
Koch. Grassi has shown that several species be- 
longing to the genus Anopheles, more particularly at 
all events as regards Italy Anopheles maculipennis, 
are the special mosquito-hosts of the malaria para- 
sites of man. Step by step he traced the crescent- 
forming and the non-crescent-forming malaria parasites 
through their mosquito hosts, finding that in their 
evolution they closely resembled that which Ross had 
so successfully demonstrated for the avian plasmodium, 
and had so clearly foreshadowed and partly demon- 
strated for the malaria parasite of man. In conjunc- 
tion with Bignami he repeated successfully in man 
Ross's experiment of conferring malarial disease by 
mosquito bite. Bastianelli, Celli, Dionisi, Buchanan, 
and many others have confirmed Ross's statements, 
and have added to our knowledge of the extra- 
corporeal cycle of the malaria parasite. 

Finally, on behalf of the Colonial Office and the 
London School of Tropical Medicine, with the 
assistance of Drs. Sambon and Low, I instituted two 
experiments which dispose for good and all of any 
objections that otherwise might have been advanced 
against the theory. Drs. Sambon and Low, Mr. 
Terzi, their servants and visitors, lived for the three 
most malarial months of 1900 in one of the 
most malarial localities of the Roman Campagna 
Ostia in a hut from which mosquitoes were ex- 
cluded by a simple arrangement of wire gauze on 
the doors and windows. They moved freely about in 
the neighbourhood during the day, exposed them- 
selves in all weathers, drank the water of the place, 
often did hard manual work, and beyond retiring 
from sunset to sunrise to their mosquito-protected 
hut observed no precautions whatever against malaria. 
They took no quinine. Although their neighbours, 
the Italian peasants, were each and all of them attacked 
with malaria, the dwellers in the mosquito-proof hut 
enjoyed an absolute immunity from the disease. 
Whilst this experiment was in progress, mosquitoes 



r] MOSQUITO AND PARASITE 21 

fed in Rome on patients suffering from tertian malaria 
were forwarded in suitable cages to the London School 
of Tropical Medicine, and on their arrival were set to 
bite my son, the late Dr. P. Thurburn Manson, and 
Mr. George Warren. Shortly afterwards both of 
these gentlemen, neither of whom had been abroad 
or otherwise exposed to malarial influences, developed 
characteristic malarial fever, and malarial parasites 
were found in abundance in their blood both at that 
time and on the occurrence of the several relapses of 
malarial fever from which they subsequently suffered. 
The mosquito-malaria theory has now, therefore, 
passed from the region of conjecture into that of fact. 

THE MALARIA PARASITE IN THE MOSQUITO 

(See Fig. 11) 

In the lumen of the stomach : travelling 
vermicule stage. When crescent-containing blood 
has been ingested by certain species of mosquito 
belonging to the Anophelinse, * those crescents 
that are mature, and that are not obsolescent, are 
transformed into the two types of sphere already 
described hyaline and granular ; that is, male and 
female. The hyaline spheres then emit their filaments 
or microgametes, which, breaking away, approach and 
seek energetically by butting and boring to enter the 
granular spheres. At one point on the surface of each 
of the granular spheres a minute papilla is projected 
to meet, as it were, a corresponding attacking micro- 
gamete. At this point one of the latter contrives to 
enter, and, after momentarily causing considerable 
perturbation in the contents of the sphere, comes to rest 
and vanishes from view. Although the granular sphere 
may be subsequently energetically attacked, no second 
microgamete can effect an entrance. For a short time 
after this act of impregnation! the granular sphere or 

* So far, this is the only kind of mosquito which has been 
found an efficient insect host for the parasite. 

t The impregnation of the granular sphere has rarely been 
witnessed in the case of the malaria parasite of man (MacCallum) ; 
but in haemoproteus of birds it has been observed many times. 
Koch has seen the resulting travelling vermicule in the plasmo- 
dium of sparrows. Analogy, therefore, justifies the inference, so 
compatible with the other well-ascertained features in the cycles 



22 MALARIA [CHAP. 

macrogamete undergoes no apparent change. Presently, 
however, it gradually alters in shape, becoming oval, 
elongated, and finally assuming a lanceolate and then a 
vermicular form, the haemozoin accumulating at the 
broad or posterior end whilst the anterior end becomes 
pointed and hyaline. On the completion of these 
changes, the little body begins to move about, at first 
slowly, then more rapidly, the pointed end being in 
front. Should this travelling vermicule, technically 
known as an ookinete, impinge on a blood corpuscle, 
white or red, it passes through it. 




Fig. 11. Section of mosquito. 

Moutb ; 6, pumping organ ; c, oesophagus ; d, homologue of proventriculus 
e.anterior part of midgut ; /. midgut ; g, pylorus; h, pyloric diverticulum ; 
i, hindgut ; j, rectum; fc, Malpighian tubes; I, salivary duct ; m, salivary 
gland ; n, dorsal vessel ; o, supra-oesophageal ganglion ; p, sub-oasophageal 
ganglion ; q, conjoined ganglia ; r, abdominal ganglia. 

Dissection of the mosquito. To follow the evolution of the 
malaria parasite the student, by frequent dissection, should 
first familiarize himself with the normal appearance of the 
internal organs of the mosquito. The following method of 
obtaining and mounting the organs for microscopical examina- 
tion is that taught by Dr. Daniels at the London School of 
Tropical Medicine: Having killed the mosquito by chloro- 
form, tobacco smoke, etc., with a mounted needle transfix the 
thorax, and with the fingers pull off the legs and wings 
one by one, being careful to pull them obliquely from the 
needle. The body of the mosquito should then be placed in 
a drop of normal saline solution on a glass slide. Then flatten 

of the intracorpuscular parasites of man and the lower animals, 
that a similar arrangement obtains in the Plasmodidse of man. 
Prof. Grassi showed me sections of the mosquito's stomach in 
which the travelling vermicules could be seen approaching and 
actually in contact with the epithelial coat. These preparations 
were from mosquitoes killed thirty-two hours after feeding on 
malarial blood. 



i] MOSQUITO AND PARASITE 23 

out a little the posterior end of the abdomen, and nick it on 
each side about the junction of the penultimate segment ; a weak 
place in the exoskeleton is thus formed. The thorax being now 
fixed with one mounted needle, another needle placed flat on 
the last segment of the abdomen steadily drags this away 
from the rest of the mosquito. The stomach or midgut and 
Malpighian tubes can thus be gradually pulled out from the 
exoskeleton ; when sufficient length of oesophagus comes into 
view it can be divided by a touch of the needle. The ovaries of 
the female and testes of the male are also pulled out with the 
stomach. Sometimes the stomach is found to be full of blood 
or other food ; in this case it is necessary to make a nick in 
the stomach : the weight of the cover-glass, which should now 
be applied, by its gentle pressure may express the blood. 
Occasionally it is necessary to wash the blood away, by allow- 
ing the stomach to refill with saline solution and then pressing 
on the cover-glass, and repeating the process as often as may be 
requisite. 

The salivary glands, lying in the prothorax, can some- 
times be obtained by pulling them out in dragging off the 
head. This method should be avoided if possible, as 
the glands are difficult to separate from the head, and 
it is impossible to compress the head without crushing 
the eyes ; the pigment thus set free interferes with a micro- 
scopical examination. The simplest and most certain method 
of procuring the salivary glands is, after cutting off the 
head, to divide the thorax obliquely, so that its anterior 
portion, including the attachments of the anterior and middle 
pair of legs, is separated from the rest of the trunk. This 
portion contains both salivary glands. The exoskeleton 
should then be broken up with needles into five or six pieces 
in normal salt solution. A cover-glass is applied and steady 
pressure exercised with the point of the needle over each 
fragment of the exoskeleton. In this manner the glands are 
separated from the chitinous fragments, and can be readily 
examined. In the majority of dissections at least five out of 
the six lobes will be exposed undamaged. 

In the stomach wall : encysted or zygote 
stage (Fig. 12). This newly acquired power of 
locomotion and penetration on the part of the 
fecundated parasite, together with other well-ascer- 
tained facts, justifies the presumption that soon after 
its formation the travelling vermicule, now known 
as an ookinete, penetrates the wall of the mosquito's 
stomach. Working its way through the layer of cells 
and the delicate basement membrane which together 
constitute the inner coat of this organ, it finally 
lodges itself among the longitudinal and transverse 
muscular fibres lying between this inner membrane 



24 



MALARIA 



[CHAP. 



and the equally delicate outer coat. Here the para- 
site, some thirty-six hours after the mosquito has fed, 
may be detected as a minute (6 p) oval or spherical 
body with a sharp outline and hyaline or slightly 




Fig. 12. Evolution of the crescent parasite in Anopheles maculipennis. 
(Adapted from Grossly Bignami, and Bastianelli.) 

1 to 6, The parasite as found in the stomach wall ; 7, isolated sporqzoites ; 
8, sporozoites in the salivary gland ; 9, section of stomach wall showing the 
parasite in situ. 

granular contents in which the hsemozoin particles are 
plainly visible. It lies between the muscular fibres, 
which, as it grows, it dissociates to a certain extent. 

During the next few days the parasite increases 
rapidly, acquiring a well-defined capsule, and, in 



MOSQUITO AND PARASITE 



25 



consequence of its growth, protruding on the sur- 
face of the insect's stomach like a wart or wen 
(Fig. 13). Meanwhile, important changes take 
place in the interior of the parasite, which has 
now acquired a spherical contour and has attained 
the stage of development to which the term 
oocyst is applied. Nucleus and protoplasm divide 
into a number of spherular daughter cells, around 
which, attached by one end like the spines on a 
porcupine, a vast number of minute (16 /*), slender, 
spindle-shaped, nucleated bodies are ultimately formed. 
At a later stage the spherules disappear, leaving the 



P.C. 



PC. 




P.C 



PC. 



INT. 



M.T. 



Fig. 13. Stomach after infection with proteosoma. 

M.T.. Mnli>ighian tubes; INT.. intestine; (ES., oesophagus ; P.O., proteosoma 

zygotes protruding into the body cavity. 

spindles (sporozoites) loose in the capsule, which is 
now packed to bursting point. In about a week 
sooner or later according to atmospheric temperature, 
which has a great influence on the rate of development 
of the parasite the capsule ruptures and collapses, 
discharging its contents into the body cavity of the 
mosquito. 

In the salivary gland : sporozoite or 
infective stage. From the body cavity of the 
mosquito the spindle-shaped sporozoites pass, probably 
by way of the blood, to the three-lobed salivary glands 
lying one on each side of the fore part of the thorax of 
the insect (Figs. 11, ra, and 14, B). These glands com- 
municate with the base of the mosquito's proboscis by 
means of a long duct, around the radicles of which the 
clear, plump cells of the gland are arranged. The sporo- 



26 



MALARIA 



[CHAP. 



zoites can be readily recognized in many (Fig. 12, s), 
though not in all, of the cells, especially in those of the 
middle lobe, and also free in the contents of the ducts. 
So numerous are they in some of the cells that the 
appearance they present is suggestive of a bacillus- 
laden lepra cell. 




Fig. 14. Dissection of head of mosquito. 

A Median section of head, showing du, the veneno-salirary duct, with its 
insertion in hy, the bypopharynx; cb, cerebrum; below this are the cere- 
bellum and the pumping enlargement of ce, the oesophagus ;m. muscle; n, 
nerve commissure. The other parts have been removed. B, the veneno- 
salivary duct, showing its bifurcation and the three glands on one of its 
branches ; pg, poison gland ; sg marks the upper of the two salivary glands 
c, The bifurcation of the duct with its nucleated hypodermis. 

TRANSFERENCE TO THE HUMAN HOST 

By a large number of experiments, abundantly 
confirmed, Ross distinctly proved that if appropriate 
birds are bitten by mosquitoes whose salivary glands 
contain the sporozoites of the avian plasmodium, 
the birds become infected with the parasite, and in 



I] 



THE PARASITE 



27 



due course show it in their blood and develop corre- 
sponding clinical symptoms. And now many experi- 
ments, some of which have been alluded to, have clearly 








HUMAN PHASE- 
THK EMDOOeHOUS o* 
^ ASEXUAL, CYCLL 

^ ^G F 

^^0 /T* 

' ^^(fe$J tf: t- 




THE 

MOSQUITO PHASE: 
EXOGENOUS 

OR 

^SEXUAL- 





Fig. 15. Schema showing the human and mosquito cycles of the malaria 
parasite. Modified from Blanchard's diagram illustrating life cycle 
of Coccidium schubergi. (From the Malaria Number of the 
"Practitioner," March, 1901.) 

or myzopods ; 
nricrogametocytes 

i jumc gametes ; J", K", I/', M", o, macrog araetocytes or female gametes ; 
', s", microgametes ; p, travelling vernucule ; Q, young tygote ; B, 8, zy- 
gotomeres: T, blastophore; u, mature zygote. 



A, Normal red cell ; B, 0, n. E, red cells containing amoebulffi 
F,O, H. sporocytea; i, young gametocyte; J', K', L', si', mic 
or male g.imetos ; J", K", L", M", o, macrogametocytes or fei 



shown that a similar process occurs in the evolu- 
tion of the malaria parasite. If a mosquito whose 
salivary glands contain malarial sporozoites bites a 
man, the sporozoites are introduced into the blood ; 



28 MALARIA [CHAP. 

penetrate the red corpuscles, and multiply. After 
eight to ten days their progeny can be seen as malaria 
parasites of the type corresponding to those of the man 
on whom the infecting mosquito had originally fed. 
Schaudinn, by diluting blood with blister serum and 
introducing into the mixture the salivary glands of a 
malaria-infected mosquito, was enabled to witness the 
entrance of the sporozoites into the red corpuscles. 

COMPLETE CYCLES OF THE PARASITES 

The complete cycles (Fig. 1 5), therefore, both intra- 
and extracorporeal, of the endocorpuscular blood para- 
sites of man and birds can now be described. Using 
the most generally adopted zoological terms, and 
commencing with the youngest phase, these parasites 
may be described as entering the blood corpuscles as 
sporozoites. Growing at the expense of the hsemo 
globin they become pigment ed and, on reaching 
maturity, develop either into (a) schizonts (the 
segmenting body rosette body), or into (b) 
gametocytes (crescents, spherical bodies of tertians or 
quartans). 

(a) The schizonts, after concentration of heemozoin, 
divide into a number of naked segments or merozoites, 
which, on the breaking down of the enveloping blood 
corpuscle, escape into the blood plasma and enter 
fresh blood -corpuscles ; thus completing the endo- 
genous cycle and providing for the multiplication of 
the parasite in the vertebrate host. The process of 
reproduction in this the asexual cycle is called 
schizogony. 

(b) The gametocytes, or gametes, as they are 
usually termed, belong to the exogenous or sexual cycle 
passed in the bodies of particular species of mosquito. 
They are of two kinds : male (hyaline crescents or 
spheres) and female (granular crescents or spheres). 
The male gametocyte emits several microgametes (fla- 
gella), one of which, breaking away, enters and im- 
pregnates the single macrogamete of which the female 
gametocyte consists. The product is a zygote, which, 
acquiring locomoting powers, becomes an ookinete, 
and transfers itself from the lumen to the wall of the 



I] THE PARASITE: LATENT PHASE 29 

middle intestine (stomach) of the mosquito in which 
it had developed. Here it comes to rest and is soon 
surrounded with a capsule. It is now an oocyst. 
Presently it divides into a number of daughter cells 
and residual bodies. The former produce a vast 
number as many as ten thousand in a single oocyst 
of minute bodies, the sporozoites (zygotoblasts, 
germinal rods Ross). Finally the oocyst ruptures, 
discharging the sporozoites into the body cavity of 
the insect, whence they are transferred to the salivary 
glands, in the secretion of which, opportunity offering, 
they are injected into the blood of an appropriate 
vertebrate, whose blood corpuscles they subsequently 
enter, and, becoming schizonts, renew the cycle. The 
process of multiplication in this the sexual or 
exogenous cycle is called sporogony. 

Latent phase. It is a well-established fact 
that, concurrently with the subsidence of acute 
clinical symptoms, the malaria parasite may disappear 
from the general circulation. This it does either 
spontaneously or as a result of the administration 
of quinine. In the majority of instances the dis- 
appearance is only temporary. Usually, after an 
interval of weeks or months, the parasite reappears 
in the general circulation and there is a renewal 
of the clinical phenomena. As to the organ or 
tissue it selects, or as to its appearance and structure 
during this time of latency, or as to the exact condi- 
tions which cause it once more to resume active, propa- 
gating, circulating life, nothing is positively known. 

Three opinions, each of them founded on a certain 
amount of fact, have been advanced on this point : 
(a) That the parasites, when the conditions become 
unfavourable for schizogony, become encysted and lay 
up in the spleen or other organ, (b) That they never 
completely leave the circulation, but continue to pro- 
pagate in the usual way, though in numbers so small 
that it is practically impossible to find them even 
by prolonged microscopical examination, (c) That 
certain sexual forms (macrogametes), a phase of the 
parasite apt to persist for prolonged periods in the 
blood, forms parthenogenetically and while still in 



30 MALARIA [CHAP. 

the circulating blood asexual spores (merozoites), 
which, on liberation, enter the red blood-corpuscles 
and so renew the asexual, intracorporeal phase. This 
much we do know namely, that physiological strain 
or vital depression in the host tends to bring about 
conditions which break up, and that quinine and vital 
vigour tend to bring about conditions which favour, 
latency. 

POSSIBILITY OF YET ANOTHER PHASE 

So far the story of the life -history of these 
parasites seems to be complete. There are certain 
facts, however, which seem to indicate the possibility 
of yet another phase, or of etiological factors which 
hitherto have escaped observation. First, there are 
districts in India, Africa, and elsewhere that are prac- 
tically uninhabited on account of the prevalence and 
virulence of the local malaria. If man be necessary 
for the completion of the life-cycle of the parasite, 
how explain its abundance in such circumstances 
that is to say, in the absence of man? Second, 
those engaged in malarious districts on works en- 
tailing disturbance of the soil, e.g. opening jungle 
lands, digging canals or foundations, making roads or 
railways, are particularly prone to contract malaria ; 
yet such operations at first sight seem in no way calcu- 
lated to foster broods of malaria-infected mosquitoes. 
How account for infection in such circumstances 1 
where, and in what form, is the malaria germ to be 
found there? 

Of the first of these difficulties two explanations 
may be submitted, (a) The malaria parasite may be 
capable of living in a variety of animal hosts, as 
we know to be the case with the hsemoprotozoa of 
birds and many other and more highly organized 
animal parasites ; and it may be that in the mala- 
rious districts alluded to the prevalence of such 
an appropriate host, together with the presence of 
an appropriate mosquito, ensures the continuance 
and abundance of the parasites. Support is given 
to this hypothesis by Dionisi's discovery of in- 
tracorpuscular parasites in bats, closely resembling 



i] MOSQUITO AND PARASITE 31 

the malaria parasites of man; and by a similar 
discovery by Koch in monkeys. Similar parasites 
have also been found in the ox, sheep, dog, horse, 
etc. (6) The malaria parasite may be capable 
of passing from mosquito to mosquito without the 
intervention of a vertebrate, by passage of the 
sporozoite into the mosquito's eggs. We have 
the support of analogy for this hypothesis. Several 
JBabesice, such as Babesia bovis, which gives rise 
to haemoglobinuric fever (Texas fever) in cattle, 
and Babesia canis, which causes the malignant 
jaundice of dogs, are transmitted in this way. The 
intermediary, a tick, takes in the parasite with the 
blood it sucks from an infected animal. The parasite, 
probably after undergoing developmental changes, 
then passes into the egg of the tick, and so to the 
young tick hatched out from the infected egg ; and it 
is this young tick that implants the germ into the 
next vertebrate host. In the case of the trypanosoma 
of the little owl, Schaudinn claimed to have shown 
that it may enter the eggs of the intermediary 
mosquito and that the infection may in this way be 
transmitted, not only by the mosquito that sucked the 
trypanosoma-containing blood but also by its progeny. 
Most observers are now of opinion that the malaria 
parasite, under natural conditions, can be acquired 
by man only through the bite of the mosquito ; that 
the mosquito can acquire the parasite only by ingest- 
. ing the blood of a malaria-infected man or, possibly, 
other mammal; that there is no extracorporeal life 
other than that described ; that there is no authentic 
instance of malaria being acquired in uninhabited 
places ; that in the case of malaria in connection 
with soil disturbances it depends on the creation 
during digging operations of puddles of water in 
which mosquitoes breed ; and that its epidemic occur- 
rence under these circumstances is owing to unhy- 
gienic conditions, such as usually prevail when large 
bodies of men, some of whom may bring' the infec- 
tion with them, are brought together on public works 
attended with extensive earth-cutting, as in railway, 
road, or canal making. 



CHAPTER II 

MALARIA: THE MICROSCOPICAL EXAMINA- 
TION OF THE BLOOD 

BEFORE commencing the study of malarial blood it 
is advisable for the beginner to familiarize himself 
with the microscopical appearances of normal blood, 
both in fresh and stained preparations. He should 
learn to recognize the several varieties of leucocyte ; 
to appreciate differences in colour, size, and shape 
of the red cells ; to recognize dirt, vacuoles, forms of 
crenation, and artificially produced appearances. By 
mastering such details at the outset important sources 
of fallacy will be avoided, and in the process of self- 
education a useful knowledge of technique will be 
acquired. 

For a thorough appreciation of the principles on 
which blood examinations for the demonstration and 
study of the malaria parasite should be conducted, it 
must be borne in mind that the parasite is intra- 
corpuscular. To see it, therefore, it is necessary, 
particularly for the beginner, so to dispose the cor- 
puscles in the preparations that a proportion of them 
shall lie flat on the slide, in a single layer, and pre- 
senting their surfaces, and not their edges, to the 
observer (Fig. 16). It is mainly from ignoring this 
fundamental principle that so many fail to find the 
parasite. 

Preparation of fluid blood films. To 
secure this disposition of corpuscles in fresh blood 
the following procedure, the smallest details of which 
must be scrupulously carried out, is recommended : 

Thoroughly cleanse with alcohol three or four thin cover- 
glasses and as many slips, and cover them immediately with 
some convenient vessel so as to protect them from the minutest 
particle of floating dust. Cleanse one of the patient's 
finger-tips with alcohol and dry it. Prick the part with 
a clean needle, and wipe away the first drop of blood that 

' 32 



PREPARATION OF FILMS 



33 



exudes. Then gently, with finger and thumb, squeeze the 
finger-pad and express a second minute droplet of blood ; this 
should be very small no larger than a pin's head. Touch the 
droplet lightly with the centre of a cover-glass, taking care 
that the latter does not come into contact with the skin, and 
immediately drop the cover-glass on the slide. No pressure 
should be used to cause the blood to spread out. If glasses 
and skin are quite clean, the blood will at once run out in a 




Fig. 10. Microphotogram showing the necessary disposition of blood- 
corpuscles m slides for examination for the plasmodium. To the 
right of the white blood-corpuscle in the centre of the field a red 
blood -corpuscle three-fourths filled with a tertian parasite is visible 
(From microphotogram by Dr. Cosens.) 

very fine film. It is sometimes more convenient to obtain 
the blood from the lobe of the ear or, in children, the 
great toe. 

Several preparations should be made, the requisite 
blood being obtained by renewed gentle compression 
of the finger-tip. 

After waiting a few minutes to allow the blood 
to spread out completely between the glasses, it is 
well to ring the preparations with vaseline, This 
will effectually stop all movement, all evaporation of 



34 MALARIA [CHAP. 

the blood, and, consequently, over-compression of the 
corpuscles, and will thereby greatly facilitate ex- 
amination. 

In making these preparations care should be 
taken to sterilize the needle employed, otherwise 
grave accidents might occur. It is, of course, un- 
necessary to sterilize the slides and cover-glasses. 

Characteristics of a successful prepara- 
tion. On holding a successful preparation up to the 
light, one or more areas, each made up of three zones, 
the different zones shading into each other, can be 
made out by the naked eye. Each such area includes 
a peripheral zone of a reddish tinge, a middle zone 
having a somewhat iridescent look, and a central zone 
absolutely devoid of colour. Successful preparations 
may be recognized by the presence of these zones. 
Preparations not exhibiting this appearance should 
be rejected ; it is waste of time to examine them. 

On examining successful preparations with the 
microscope it will be found that the central zone or 
area contains few or no blood-corpuscles. This zone 
may be designated the " empty zone." Proceeding 
outwards from this we come on an area occupied by 
scattered, isolated, compressed, and much-expanded 
corpuscles the " zone of scattered corpuscles." 
Farther out the corpuscles become more numerous 
and less expressed (Fig. 16). Gradually, as we 
trace the film still farther outwards, the corpuscles 
are found approximated to each other, until, finally, 
the peripheries of the corpuscles are mostly in touch 
the " single-layer zone." Farther out the cor- 
puscles, though still lying flat, are found to overlap 
each other or are piled one on the top of the other 
the " zone of heaped-up corpuscles." Beyond this 
zone the corpuscles are arranged in rouleaux the 
" zone of rouleaux." At the extreme margin of the 
preparation the corpuscles tend to break up and run 
together so as to form a narrow border of free 
haemoglobin, the individual corpuscles perhaps being 
indistinguishable the " zone of free haemoglobin." 
Each of these zones should be studied, for each may 
afford special information about the malaria parasite* 



n] EXAMINING BLOOD FILMS 35 

Microscopical examination. The beginner 
will save time if he gets someone who is familiar 
with the necessary technique, and with the appearance 
of the parasite in the blood, to give him one or two 
lessons. Accuracy and quickness can be acquired 
only by practice. It is a good plan to practise pre- 
paring films from one's own blood. 

The examination is best conducted with a T Vin. 
oil immersion lens, a rather low eyepiece, a sub- 
stage condenser, and a good but not too dazzling 
illumination. It is practically useless to work with 
any objective lower than y 1 ^- in., or without a sub- 
stage condenser. 

It is not always possible to choose, but, if prac- 
ticable, a case of quartan infection should be selected 
for examination in the first instance. Failing a 
quartan, a well-defined benign tertian infection might 
be chosen. Failing either of these, a long-standing 
case of recurring malaria with marked cachexia will 
afford the next best opportunity. It is best to 
examine the patient's blood just before or at the 
time of rigor. In quartans and benign tertians, at 
the time named, there should be little difficulty in 
discovering large parasites; in the case of these 
infections, attention is called to the relatively large 
parasites by the abundance of coarse pigment they 
contain. In the blood of malarial cachectics with 
recurring febrile attacks it is generally an easy matter 
to find crescents and crescent-derived spheres, as this 
form of the parasite is of considerable size, carries 
abundance of pigment, arid possesses a very definite 
and striking shape. 

When the beginner has learnt to recognize the 
larger forms of the parasite, he will have begun to 
appreciate what sort of body he has to look for ; 
thereafter he should be able to educate himself, and 
to pick out the smaller and intermediate forms. 

In proceeding to make his first examination of 
a liquid blood slide, the beginner, in the first in- 
stance, should confine his attention to the " single- 
layer zone." Field after field of this he must pass 
in review, carefully scrutinizing the interior of every 



36 MALARIA [CHAP. 

blood corpuscle, every leucocyte, and every pigmented 
body, even though it be not included in a corpuscle. 
He must not expect to find parasites in every cor- 
puscle, or even in every field ; and he certainly 
must not expect, as the beginner usually does, to 
find in every slide the beautifully regular segment- 
ing form or " rosette body " or the weird-looking 
flagellated body made familiar to us by so many 
illustrations. Such bodies, though really present 
somewhere and in some form at one time or another 
in every case, are among the least common of the many 
phases of the malaria parasite ; they are met with 
only under very definite and not very constantly en- 
countered conditions, and are not very often seen at 
an ordinary clinical examination. 

In most cases the parasite is discovered in the 
first field or two examined; but in not a few instances 
dozens of fields may have to be scrutinized before a 
single parasite is found. Therefore no examination 
can be said to be complete, in a negative sense, until 
at least half an hour has been spent over several 
suitably prepared slides. 

The intracorpuscular forms most frequently met 
with have the appearance either of small specks 
of pale protoplasm, or of larger masses of pale proto- 
plasm containing grains of black pigment. Close 
watching discovers that the former are endowed 
with amoeboid movement, and that they continually 
change shape and position in the affected corpuscles. 
As these movements are an important test of the 
parasitic nature of the body sought, they should be 
carefully looked for. The smallest protoplasmic specks 
look like washed-out smudges of dirty -white paint, 
half hidden by the hemoglobin ; they are sometimes 
hard to see. Their parasitic nature can readily be 
determined by their movements; by their soft, ill-de- 
fined margins ; and by the fact that they tend now 
and again, on first removal from the body, and per- 
manently later, to assume the appearance of tiny 
white rings which show up very distinctly in the 
hemoglobin of the corpuscle. These features readily 
distinguish them from the sharply defined, clear, 



n] MICROSCOPICAL EXAMINATION 37 

motionless, non-parasitic vacuole (Fig. 17). The other 
common forms the larger or smaller intracorpuscular 
pigmented parasites occupy anywhere from a sixth 
to nearly the entire area of the affected corpuscles. 
They are recognized by their pale protoplasm ; by the 
black hsemozoin particles scattered about or, if towards 
the period of rigor, concentrated in their interior ; 
and by their more or less active amoeboid movements. 
In quartans and tertians, but especially in the former, 
segmenting rosette forms are seen occasionally. 

Examination of blood for flagellated bodies. 
When the student has become familiar with these 
appearances, and has thoroughly seized the fact that 
the segmenting forms are to be found only or usually 
during, just before, or soon after the rigor stage of 
fever, he should endeavour to follow up the initial 
steps of the exogenous, sexual or mosquito phase of 
the parasite. So far as ordinary preparations permit, 
this phase is best studied in the " zone of heaped-up 
corpuscles " and in the " zone of rouleaux " ; because 
in these zones the parasite, not being subjected to 
pressure, has more freedom to undergo its evolutionary 
change into the flagellated body. 

In ordinary quartans and tertians flagellated 
bodies are but seldom encountered. The best time to 
find them in such cases is said to be during the 
hot stage of the fever. In cases of crescent infection 
they are much more frequently met with, as, in 
this form of malaria, flagellated bodies are usually 
more numerous, appear at any time of the clinical 
cycle, and persist in the circulation perhaps for several 
weeks after fever has disappeared. 

In most cases of crescent infection the gradual 
evolution of the flagellated body from crescent 
through oval and sphere can, with patience, be easily 
followed. 

Diagnostic value of the "zone offreehcemoglobin. n 
The zone of free haemoglobin is of value as 
enabling the practised observer to pronounce very 
rapidly on the presence or absence of pigmented 
parasites in the blood. The relatively large quantity 
of blood in each field of this zone, and therefore the 



38 MALARIA [CHAP. 

proportionally large number of parasites in any given 
field, lends itself to this, as does the fact that the 
hsemozoin shows up very distinctly in the homo- 
geneous sheet of free haemoglobin. 

Phagocytosis and pigmented leucocytes. Striking 
examples of phagocytosis are often witnessed in 
malarial blood. So soon as a malarial parasite, 
whether spontaneously or as a result of pressure, 
escapes from the blood corpuscle in which it had 
developed, it becomes exceedingly liable to attack 
by the phagocytes. More especially is this the case 
with the flagellated organism ; this body seems to have 
a powerful attraction for the phagocytes, which are 
often seen to travel long distances to attack it. 

Pigmented leucocytes that is to say, leucocytes 
containing grains or blocks of hsemozoin are very 
often encountered ; they can best be seen in the 
single-layer zone during, or shortly after, fever. 
Leucocytes may sometimes be observed to include 
the hsemozoin set free by the falling to pieces of the 
segmented parasites. Often they derive their hsemo- 
zoin from the remains of some sphere or flagellated 
body which they may have engulfed subsequently to 
the preparation of the slide. In peripheral blood the 
phagocytes are rarely, if ever, seen to attack the 
parasite so long as it is inside a blood corpuscle. 

Both the large mono- and, very rarely, the poly- 
nucleated leucocytes may contain malarial pigment. 
Care, however, must be exercised in drawing conclusions 
from the discovery of black material in these bodies ; 
in imperfectly cleaned slides, fragments of dirt, which 
the leucocytes rapidly take up, are apt to mislead. 

Pigmented lymphocytes. According to Metchni- 
koff, the lymphocyte has no phagocytic action in 
malaria. This observation I believe to be correct. 
Several writers, however, have described and figured 
what they regard as malarial pigment in the lympho- 
cyte. This, I am convinced, is founded on an error 
in interpretation, and has arisen from ignorance of 
the fact that in all bloods, healthy and malarial alike, 
from 20 to 50 per cent, of the small mononucleated 
lymphocytes contain, lying in the narrow zone of 



n] MICROSCOPICAL EXAMINATION 39 

cytoplasm, one or two minute round dots of in- 
tensely black material optically indistinguishable 
from hsemozoin. I am not aware that this appear- 
ance has been described hitherto, but multiplied 
observation has convinced me of the accuracy of my 
statement. The discovery, therefore, of what looks 
like a speck of intensely black pigment in the 
lymphocytes must not be regarded as evidence of 
malarial infection. 

Diagnosis of vacuoles. The beginner may have 
a difficulty in determining whether certain appear- 
ances in the corpuscles are vacuoles, or whether they 
are parasites. The following hints may help him to 




Fig. 17. Vacuolated and crenated blood-corpuscles. (After Laveran and 
Blanchard. ) 

a, 6, c. Blood corpuscles with central vacuoles, c is crenated ; d, e, f, h, blood 
corpuscles with central vacuole containing fragmented haemoglobin. 
Sometimes minute eye-shaped vacuoles with a speck of haemoglobin in 
the centre are met with, and are apt to be taken for parasites, g, Crenated 
blood-corpuscles with several vacuoles, or, it may be, crenations out of 
focus j i, j, k, I, deformed blood-corpuscles with central lacunae. 

a correct decision : Vacuoles (Fig. 17, a, b, c, d, e, 
/* ^j *) jt ^j are we ll defined, clear, and have 
sharp edges ; they may change form slightly, but they 
have no true amoeboid movement, carry no pigment, 
and, of course, do not stain. Intracorpuscular malaria 
parasites, on the contrary, are dim and, as a rule, 
ill defined ; they have soft, shaded-off edges ; possess 
amceboid movements ; when large they carry hsemo- 
zoin grains ; and, of course, they take the appropriate 
stains. It is hardly necessary to indicate the points 
of diagnosis from leucocytes, or from cupped, folded, 
or crenated (Fig. 17, c,/, g, i, j, k, I) corpuscles. 

Moribund and fragmented parasites. Moribund 
it may be fragmented free parasites (Fig. 18) are 



40 MALARIA [CHAP. 

often a source of confusion to the beginner. Their 
nature is frequently misunderstood ; they are some- 
times erroneously termed " sterile bodies," an 
expression at one time frequently applied to the 
crescent-derived spheres (gametocytes). They are, 
in fact, mechanically-freed parasites expressed from 
blood corpuscles by the compression to which the 
blood is subjected between slip and cover-glass. 
The longer blood is on the slide particularly if 
evaporation be not prevented by vaseline-ringing of 
the cover-glass the more closely will the cover-glass 
approximate to the slip, the greater will be the 
pressure on, and consequent thinning and spread- 
ing out of, blood corpuscles and parasites, and the 
greater the liability to damage of these very delicate 





Fig. 18. Degenerating vacuolated plasraodia. 

bodies. Frequently the artificially-freed parasites are 
broken into small fragments. The entire, as well as 
the fragmented parasites, on becoming free in the 
liquor sanguinis, tend to assume a spherical or disc- 
like form ; at the same time the protoplasm of which 
they are composed seems to become diffluent, and the 
hsemozoin is resolved into a number of minute dust- 
like particles possessing active, brownian movement. 
Some of the spherical or disc-shaped bodies with 
dancing hsemozoin particles are really crescent-derived 
spheres or other forms of gametes. These are parasites 
which have escaped from corpuscles in a normal way, 
but which have become arrested in their evolution in 
consequence of the abnormal conditions in which 
they are placed in vitro ; others are the remains 
of flagellated bodies, the microgamete filaments having 
broken away. 



ii] STAINING MALARIAL BLOOD 41 

The parasite as a means of diagnosis. All of 
these multiform appearances the student must learn 
to recognize and interpret. Skill in this is merely a 
matter of time, practice, and reflection. Given these, 
the student should be able not only to diagnose by the 
microscope malarial infection, but also to recognize 
the type of any particular infection, the period of the 
fever cycle, and, it may be, the severity of the case. 
For diagnosis in malaria, therefore, skill in the micro- 
scopical examination of the blood is of the utmost 
value, and no pains should be spared by the prac- 
titioner in malarious countries to acquire it. In acute 
untreated malaria the parasite may be detected 
practically in every case. Thus in 616 cases Thayer 
and Hewetson except in two or three instances 
where the patient's blood was examined only during 
convalescence found it in every instance, The 
best authorities are equally emphatic on this point. 
Personally, I can assert that since I became familiar 
with the subject I have never failed to find the 
parasite in any acute untreated malarial case I have 
had a proper opportunity of examining. Whenever 
in a case of acute disease, supposed to be malarial, 
I have failed to do so, the case has turned out to be 
of quite another nature. 

Bearing of quinine on microscopical diagnosis. 
It is of little use to examine the blood for the intra- 
corporeal forms of the malaria parasite after full 
doses of quinine have been taken ; the drug rapidly 
brings about the disappearance of this phase of the 
parasite. The crescent alone is unaffected by drugs, 
and in suitable cases may be found for days after the 
patient is cinchonized. 

On staining malarial blood As a general 
rule, the beginner should work only with unstained 
preparations of fresh liquid blood. To the unpractised, 
staining is full of pitfalls. In such circumstances it 
must not be relied on for purposes of responsible 
diagnosis. To the experienced microscopist and diag- 
nostician, and for the study of the morphology of the 
parasite, staining is of the highest value; more- 
over, some such method must be employed should 



MALARIA 



[CHAP. 



permanent preparations be desired, or should it be 
inconvenient to make an immediate examination of 
the blood. Many methods have been devised ; here 
only one or two can be given. 

Preparing the film. It is usual to spread the 
blood on cover-glasses ; for many reasons I prefer to 
spread it on slips. There are various ways of pre- 
paring the films ; the following I can recommend : 




Fig. 19. A method for the preparation of blood films. (From the 
Malaria Number of the " Practitioner," March, 1901.) 

Probably the easiest, as well as the quickest and most con- 
venient, is a modification of that recommended by Christophers 
and Stephens. Prick the cleansed finger-pad or lobe of the 
ear, and express a droplet of blood. Take this up by touching 
it lightly with a clean glass slip about an inch from one end 
of the slip. Across the slip and on the- blood lay the shaft of 
the needle an ordinary straight, rather long sewing needle 
(Fig. 19). Pause for several seconds until the blood has run 
out by capillarity between the needle and the slip ; then, 
holding it by one end, push the needle over the face of the 
slip in the direction of the length of the latter, so as to spread 
the blood over the entire breadth of the middle third of the 
slip. By passing the soiled needle through the lapel of the 
coat, the operator can cleanse it quickly and be ready to make, 
by a repetition of the manoeuvre, a series of films from the 
same puncture. 



ii] STAINING MALARIAL BLOOD 43 

Or : Take up the droplet of finger blood on the edge of 
the end of a slip ; lay this at an angle of about 45 across 
another slip held horizontally ; pause till the blood has run 
out along the line of contact of the two glasses, and then glide 
the inclined slip along the surface of the horizontal slip in a 
direction away from the acute angle. According as the angle 
formed by the two slips is less or more acute will be the thin- 
ness of the film. 

However spread, after the blood has dried, when- 
ever it is desired to stain it, either at once or at any 
future and more convenient time, it should be 
"fixed" by dropping on the film a little absolute 
alcohol and ether in equal parts, or absolute alcohol 
alone. Cover- glass films may be dropped into a 
small wide-mouth bottle containing the fixing agent, 
or they m.ay be fixed by passing them through the 
flame (not a good method), or by placing them for 
some hours (one to three) in a warm dry chamber at 
a temperature of 105 to 120 C. When alcohol 
is used, after ten to thirty minutes or longer it must 
be dried off before staining. 

STAINS 

The stains usually employed belong to two 
categories : (a) those which stain the protoplasm 
and the nucleus the same colour; (b) those which, 
by tinting them differently, differentiate the proto- 
plasm from the nucleus. 

(a) Of the former I would recommend the 
following : 

Borax-methylene blue. A drop or two of aqueous solution 
of borax- (5 per cent.) methylene blue (2 per cent.) is spread 
on the film. After thirty seconds or less the slide is thoroughly 
washed in water, dried with filter paper, and afterwards by 
gently warming over the spirit-lamp. Finally, xylol balsam 
and a cover-glass are applied. 

Loffler's methylene blue. Concentrated alcoholic solution of 



methylene blue 30 parts, solution of caustic potash ( T QOO) 
100 parts. Stain for thirty seconds, wash in water, dry and 
mount. 

Carbol-thionin. Saturated alcoholic (60 per cent.) solution of 
thionin 20 parts, watery solution (2 per cent.) of carbolic acid 
100 parts. The mixture should be kept at least a fortnight 
before use. Stain for five minutes, wash and mount. 

Hamatoxylin and eosin. Ehrlich's acid haematoxylin, or 
strong solution of haemalum, five minutes ; weak eosin, half 



44 MALARIA [CHAP. 

a minute ; wash in tap water and then in distilled water ; 
dry and mount in xylol balsam. This is an easily carried out 
and effective method of obtaining less intensely stained but 
more permanent preparations. 

(b) The many methods of obtaining differential 
staining of protoplasm and nucleus depend on the 
circumstance that, when solutions of certain kinds of 
methylene blue and eosin are mixed, a third red dye, 
with a special affinity for chromatin, is formed. They 
are all modifications of the original Romanowsky 
method. They are a little uncertain and troublesome 
to use, their success depending on the purity of 
the chemicals employed and careful attention to 
detail. The beginner is advised to become proficient, 
in the first instance, with the simpler methods given 
above. Having attained this, he should practise 
some form of the Romanowsky method, for, besides 
displaying the intimate structure of the malaria 
parasite, in consequence of the intense tinting of the 
nucleus which it effects it greatly facilitates the find- 
ing of the smaller forms of the parasite, not always an 
easy matter, especially in the case of the very minute 
young sub tertian or malignant parasite. Of the 
three methods given below, Leishman's, everything 
considered, is the best. Both it and Jenner's method 
have the advantage of dispensing with preliminary 
fixing. 

Romanowsky 's method. Cover-glass films are fixed by 
heat 110 C. for one hour. They are then immediately 
/loafed for over two hours on a freshly prepared mixture of 
saturated watery solution of methylene blue, 2 parts, and watery 
solution of eosin (1 per cent.), 5 parts, washed in water, dried 
and mounted. The precipitate formed by the mixture must 
not be filtered out. 

Jennets stain. Special care must be taken that there is no 
trace of alkali or acid on the glass on which the film is spread ; 
it must, therefore, be washed in distilled water and stood in 
absolute alcohol. The stain is made by dissolving Griibler's 
water-soluble eosin (yellow shade) and medicinal methylene 
blue in pure absolute methylic alcohol, which must be free from 
acetone and other impurities ; the solutions are then mixed in 
the proportions of 125 parts of ^-per-cent. solution of the 
eosin, and 100 parts of ^-per-cent. solution of the methylene 
blue. Or the compound body formed by the eosin and 
methylene blue in this mixture may be purchased in the dry 
state and subsequently dissolved in absolute methylic alcohol. 



ti] STAINING MALARIAL BLOOD 45 

To use the stain, a few drops are poured on the blood film and 
covered to prevent evaporation and precipitation. In three 
minutes, or a little longer, the stain is rapidly poured off, and 
afterwards the film is washed in distilled water from five to ten 
seconds until it assumes a pink colour. It is then dried high over 
the flame, or in the air, and mounted in xylol balsam. 

Leishman's stain. Two solutions are prepared. A, a 
1-per-cent. solution of medicinal methylene blue (Grubler) 
in distilled water, rendered alkaline by 0*5 per cent, sodium 
carbonate. Heat this to 65 C. for twelve hours, and allow 
it to stand at the room temperature for ten days. _B, eosin, 
extra B.A. (Grubler), 1 in 1,000 of distilled water. Mix equal 
volumes of A and B and stand for six to twelve hours, stir- 
ring occasionally. Collect the flocculent precipitate in a filter, 
and wash with distilled water. Dry and powder the filtrate, 
which has a green metallic lustre and contains the active 
ingredient of the Romanowsky stain. (This powder has 
been placed on the market, and can be procured in condensed 
tablets called soloids.) Make a 0'15-per-cent. solution of the 
dye in methylic alcohol, and keep in a stoppered bottle. 

To use the stain, drop three to four drops of the solution 
on the unfixed blood film. After about half a minute to one 
minute or longer add six to eight or more drops of distilled 
water and mix them by moving about the slide. A precipitate 
forms at once in the water in successful slides. After five 
minutes or longer wash off the stain with distilled water, 
leaving a few drops of the water on the film for over a 
minute. Dry without heat, and mount in xylol balsam. 

Eosin - azur stain, sold by Burroughs and Wellcome in 
tabloid form, is an azur stain of somewhat similar composition 
to that of Leishman. One tabloid is dissolved in 10 c.c. of 
pure methyl alcohol and is used as above; it gives similar 
but more brilliant results. It may also be used as Giemsa's 
stain dissolved in 5 c.c. of a mixture of equal parts of glycerin 
and pure methyl alcohol. 

Giemsa's stain. Azur II. eosin 3 -0 grm. , azur II. 0'8 grm., 
dried, powdered, and dissolved in 250 grm. of glycerin, to 
which are subsequently added 250 grm. of methyl alcohol ; 
heat to 40 C. Shake the mixture and stand for twenty-four 
hours, and then filter. 

Fix the films in methyl alcohol (three minutes). The 
staining solution is prepared by adding 1 drop of stain to 
1 c.c. of distilled water at 30 to 40. Immerse the film 
in this for fifteen minutes, wash in stream of water, dry, and 
mount in balsam. 

Laveratfs method for staining and preserving permanent 
preparations. The following solutions are required : 

Eosin, 1 : 1,000 . . . . .4 c.c. 

Distilled water 10 ,, 

Bleu borrel * . . . . . 1 

* Bleu borrel is methyleue blue and silver oxide. It is pre- 
pared as follows : In a loO-c.c. glass measure several crystals of 



46 MALARIA [CHAP. 

The mixture is placed in a Petri dish, the dried film is put 
in this and left from five to twenty minutes at about 37 C. ; 
the slide should be placed on glass rods to prevent the deposit 
of a precipitate. After staining, the preparation is washed 
with water, treated with a solution of tannin, washed again 
for a few minutes, and dried. The preparations are permanent, 
but keep better if unmounted. 

Boss's thick-film method. For the detection of small num- 
bers of malaria parasites in the blood, and especially for the 
crescentic form, Ross recommends the adoption of thick films 
dehsemoglobinized in water. The parasites remain behind, 
clinging to the cell stroma. A drop of blood the size of a 
pin's head is dabbed on to a clean cover-glass so that an evenly 
spread smear results, about 5-7 mm. in diameter. After the 
dehsemoglobinized film has been dried in the air, it is stained 
in the ordinary way. The parasites are apt, however, to be 
greatly distorted by the action of the water. 

Staining the flagellated body. A sheet of thick blotting- 
paper, having rows of oblong holes (1 in. by f in.) cut out 
in it, is prepared ; it is slightly but sufficiently moistened with 
water, and laid smoothly on a sheet of window -glass. 

A patient in whose blood the crescent form of the 
parasite abounds is selected. His finger is pricked and a 
droplet of blood, the size of a large pin's head, is expressed. A 
clean microscope slip is then breathed on once, and the droplet 
of blood immediately taken up by lightly touching it with the 
centre of the breathed-on surface of the slip. The blood is 
now rapidly and somewhat unevenly spread out with the 
needle so as to cover an area of about f in. by ^ in. 
The slip is immediately inverted over one of the blotting- 
paper cells and pressed down sufficiently to secure thorough 
apposition of the slip to the paper, without, at the same time, 
bringing the blood into contact either with the moistened 
paper forming the wall, or with the glass forming the floor 
of what is now a very perfect moist chamber. The rest of the 
paper cells are rapidty covered with blood-charged slips pre- 
pared in the same way. In from a quarter to three-quarters 
of an hour the slips are removed and dried by gently warm- 
ing them over the spirit-lamp blood surface away from the 
flame. When dry the films are fixed with absolute alcohol, 
a few drops being poured on each. After ten minutes the 
alcohol is dried off, and a few drops of weak acetic acid 
(10 to 20 per cent.) are laid on the films and left there 
long enough thoroughly to dissolve out all the haemoglobin. 
The slides are then washed in water and dried. They may 
now be stained with various reagents. So far, I have 
obtained the best results from weak carbol - f uchsin (20 per 

nitrate of silver are placed, and the measure is then filled with a 
concentrated solution of soda. The black precipitate of silver oxide 
is washed several times in distilled water, then a saturated solution 
of methylene blue (Hb'chst) is poured into the oxide and left in 
contact for fifteen days. 



n] STAINING MALARIAL BLOOD 47 

cent.) and prolonged staining. The stain is dropped on the 
slip and covered with a watch-glass ; after six to eight hours 
it is washed off with water, the slide dried, and a cover- 
glass applied with xylol balsam. 

On examining with a one-twelfth immersion lens 
slides prepared with methylene blue,* the nuclei of 
the white corpuscles are seen to be very deeply 
stained, the protoplasm of the white corpuscles is 
very lightly stained, whilst the parasites are stained 
an intermediate tint, and show up sharply enough 
in the faintly tinted red blood- corpuscles (Figs. 2, 
16, 20). Contrast staining with eosin is uncertain 
in its results in methylene-blue preparations ; even 
in practised hands good preparations are the excep- 
tion. For ordinary purposes I do not recommend it ; 
it is superfluous, troublesome, and unreliable. 

On examining successful slides prepared by any 
of the Romanowsky methods, the red blood-cells will 
be found to be stained pale pink or greenish; the 
polynuclear leucocytes will show nuclear network 
ruby -red, the margins of the nuclei being sharply de- 
nned, whilst the protoplasm is unstained, except such 
fine eosinophil granules as it may contain, which are 
red ; the mononuclears and lymphocytes have sharply 
defined ruby-red nuclei and faint blue protoplasm ; the 
coarse-grained eosinophiles have a less deeply stained 
ruby-red nucleus and pale pink granules; the baso- 
philes hav.e dark purple-black granules and ruby- 
red nucleus ; nucleated red cells have almost a black 
and sharply defined nucleus; the blood-plates are 
deep ruby-red with spiky margins and sometimes a 
pale blue peripheral zone. The body of the malarial 
parasite is stained blue and the chromatin of the 
nuclei ruby-red ; and, in deeply stained preparations 
of the tertian parasite, the haemoglobin of the in- 
cluding red blood - corpuscles will be dotted over 
with certain fine or coarse red granules known as 
Schiiffner's dots. 

* When it is not intended to preserve the slides a cover- 
glass may be dispensed with, and the immersion lens used with 
only the cedar oil between it and the film. For purposes of 
diagnosis this suffices, and much time and material are saved. 
Indeed, stained films retain their colour longest if balsam and 
cover-glass are not applied. 



48 MALAKIA [CHA*. 

In preparations intended to display the flagellated 
body most of the slides will show numbers of spheres 
and several or many well-stained flagellated bodies 
(Figs. 3, 4, 7). Very few crescents remain untrans- 
formed. If the slips are removed and dried in from 
five to ten minutes after being placed on the blotting- 
paper cells, only crescents, ovals, and spheres will be 
found ; if they are left for three-quarters of an hour 
to an hour, free microgametes and residual masses 
may also be found, the latter sometimes enclosed 
in phagocytes. Occasionally , flagellated bodies are 
found partially included in phagocytes. Staining 
with carbol-fuchsin, as above described, makes, when 
successful, beautiful preparations, but they do not 
differentiate the chromatin of the nuclear elements. 
To show this, some form of the Romanowsky method, 
preferably Leishman's or Giemsa's, must be em- 
ployed. 

CULTIVATION OF THE MALARIA PARASITE 

The cultivation in vitro of the malaria parasite, 
long and unsuccessfully attempted, was at last (1911) 
effected by Bass, whose results have been fully con- 
firmed. His method is, briefly, as follows : 10 c.c. 
of aseptically drawn blood from the median basilic 
vein of an untreated malaria patient are immediately 
transferred to a large test-tube containing y 1 ^ c.c. of a 
50-per-cent. solution of Merck's dextrose, The tube 
is fitted with a cap through which runs a glass rod, 
and with this the blood is gently defibrinated. The 
mixture is distributed into culture tubes so as to 
form columns of about 2 in., and then incubated at 
40 C. After a time it settles into three layers an 
upper ( J in.) of serum, an intermediate (-fa to ^ in.) 
of red and white corpuscles, and a bottom of red cor- 
puscles. It is only in the red corpuscles of the very 
thin intermediate layer that the parasites grow and 
multiply. They are absent from the serous or top 
layer, and they die in the bottom layer. By draw- 
ing off with a fine pipette a little of the middle 
layer the progress of the culture can be watched 
and subcultures started. To succeed with the latter, 



n] CULTIVATION OF THE PARASITE 49 

however, the leucocytes have to be removed by cen- 
trif ugation. Strict asepsis and the avoidance of air- 
bubbles in drawing off and defibrinating the blood 
are indispensable. The sexual cycle has not been 
cultivated. 

Important results are likely to accrue from Bass's 
discovery, particularly in the determination of species 
of parasite, in their morphology, in diagnosis, in the 
action of quinine, and also in settling disputed points 
in regard to the latency of malarial infections. 



CHAPTER III 

MALARIA: DESCRIPTION OF THE PARASITES 
AND THEIR ASSOCIATED FEVERS 

THE different clinical types of malarial disease are 
associated with different and corresponding species 
of malaria parasites. 

Classification of parasites. The different 
species have been classified according to 

1. The duration of their respective life-cycles 

inside the human body. 

2. Their morphological characters. 

3. The clinical phenomena they give rise to. 

4. The results of inoculation experiments. 

It may be said that, so far as these tests go, 
there is evidence of plurality of species. That is 
to say, a particular clinical type of malarial disease 
is associated with a parasite of definite morpho- 
logical form and intracorporeal life-cycle, characters 
which are maintained when the parasite has been 
inoculated experimentally. 

The classification suggested by Mannaberg will 
here be followed a classification based principally 
on the investigations of Golgi, Marchiafava, Bignami, 
Celli, Grassi, and other Italians, as well as on his 
own most excellent work. 

The forms of the malaria parasite, and of the 
diseases they give rise to, may be divided into two 
comprehensive groups the benign and the malignant. 
A principal morphological distinction between these 
two groups is that, whereas the benign parasites never 
form crescent bodies, the malignant parasites, or at 
least the most important of them the subtertian 
form crescents; that is to say, the gamete of the 
benign parasites is a sphere or disc, that of the 
malignant parasites a crescent. A principal clinical 
difference between the two is that, whereas the 
50 



CLASSIFICATION OF PARASITES 51 

benign parasites rarely give rise to pernicious attacks, 
the malignant parasites frequently do. 

The benign parasites are of two kinds : one, the 
quartan parasite, having a cycle of seventy-two hours, 
causing a fever recurring every three days quartan 
fever ; the other, the tertian parasite, with a cycle of 
forty -eight hours, causing a fever recurring every 
two days tertian fever. 

The malignant parasite has three forms, perhaps 
more:* a pigmented parasite, the subtertian^ of 
forty-eight, or approximately forty-eight hours' cycle ; 
a pigmented parasite pigmented quotidian of ap- 
proximately twenty-four hours' cycle ; and an unpig- 
mented parasite unpigmented quotidian also ap- 
proximately of twenty-four hours' cycle. J 

We may arrange them thus : 



Benign j ^^^ } Do not form crescents. 



( Subtertian : Form crescents. 
Malignant < Quotidian pigmented ) Supposed to 
( Quotidian unpigmented ] form crescents. 

Clinical classification. Formerly, classifica- 
tion being based entirely on clinical phenomena, 
malarial diseases were divided into quotidian, ter- 

* Many authorities refuse to recognize more than one species 
of malignant parasite, the differences in length of cycle and 
pigmentation being regarded merely as variations depending on 
circumstances and not as specific differences. 

t This parasite has received several names, none of them quite 
appropriate. Thus the Italians call it ' ' aestivo-autumnal, " a term 
appropriate enough in Italy, where the infection is acquired only 
during the summer and autumn months, but manifestly inappro- 
priate in the tropics, where it may be acquired at any season. 
Koch calls it the "tropical parasite," a name equally unsuitable, 
seeing that the range of the parasite embraces countries far 
beyond the tropic belt. The term subtertian I have adopted, 
following Sambon's suggestion. It implies no error either as 
regards clinical habit, seasonal or geographical range, and it has 
the additional recommendation of approximating to the name 
hemitertian, applied by Hippocrates and the ancients to the class 
of fevers it gives rise to. 

X Several additional species or varieties of malaria parasites 
have been described lately, e.g. the Plasmodium tenue of Stephens, 
the Plasmodium falciparum quotidianum of Craig, the Plasmo- 
dium vivax minuta of Emin ; but as to whether these are valid 
species or merely varieties it is as yet impossible to pronounce. 



52 MALARIA [CHAP. 

tian, and quartan intermittents or agues, and 
remittents. But since it has been found that what 
was designated remittent fever is produced by 
either quartan, tertian, subtertian, or by quotidian 
parasites the fact of intermittency or remittency 
being more or less a matter of accident it has 
been considered advisable to expunge the term 
remittent fever as indicative of a distinct species 
of malarial disease. Any one of the five kinds of 
parasites enumerated may cause what was known 
as remittent fever. The intermittency or the re- 
mittency of any given fever depends, in great 
measure, on the simultaneousness or the reverse of 
the maturation of the swarm of parasites giving 
rise to it. If all the parasites present are of 
nearly the same age, they mature approximately 
simultaneously and we have an intermittent ; if they 
are of different ages, they mature at different times 
scattered over the twenty-four hours and we have 
what was known as a remittent. Further, two gener- 
ations of tertian parasites maturing on successive 
days will produce a quotidian fever, Tertiana duplex; 
two generations of quartan parasites maturing on 
successive days will produce fever fits on two succes- 
sive days followed by one day of freedom, Quartana 
duplex; three generations of quartan parasites will 
produce what clinically appears to be a quotidian 
fever, but in reality is a Quartana triplex. 

Present classification not final. The 
classification adopted is merely provisional. In prac- 
tice it may be hard, often impossible, to bring the 
cases met with into exact line with such an arrange- 
ment. Moreover, as this classification is based in 
great measure on observations made in very limited 
districts, principally in Italy, and principally on 
Roman fevers, it may not apply to the entire mala- 
rial world. That it lies on a substratum of fact 
there can be no doubt ; nor can there be much 
doubt that it has in many particulars a general 
application to malarial disease as found all over the 
world. Still, judging from clinical facts, there seems 
ground for believing that there are other species or 



in] THE AGUE FIT 53 

varieties of the malaria parasite besides those described 
by the Italians, and that the list here given will have 
to be enlarged or recast in the future. Men with 
extensive experience of malarial disease in their own 
persons tell us that they can discriminate by their 
sensations and symptoms between the fevers of 
different localities. Analogy would incline us to 
believe that clinical differences of this sort depend on 
differences in the determining parasites. 

CLINICAL PHENOMENA OP MALARIAL FEVER 

Before proceeding with a description of the 
various malaria parasites and their associated fevers, 
there are certain generalities which, to save repetition, 
had better be mentioned here. 

Intermittent fever or ague. Every typical 
malarial fever is made up of a series of pyrexial 
attacks which recur at definite intervals of twenty- 
four, forty-eight, or seventy-two hours. Each attack 
consists of a stage of rigor, a stage of heat, and a stage 
of sweating ; these are followed by a period, " the in- 
terval," of apyrexia -actual or relative. The duration 
and intensity of the constituent stages vary consider- 
ably. On the whole, they observe a certain proportion 
to each other; as a rule, the more pronounced the 
rigor, the higher the fever and the more profuse the 
sweating. Such attacks, with well-marked intervals 
of apyrexia, are designated intermittent fevers or 
agues. The expression " ague " is applied only to 
intermittents having a pronounced rigor stage. 

Premonitory stage. Before rigor sets in, and 
sometimes for several days before the actual disease 
declares itself, there may or there may not be a 
premonitory stage marked by lassitude, a desire to 
stretch the limbs and to yawn, aching of the bones, 
headache, anorexia, perhaps vomiting, perhaps a feel- 
ing as of cold water trickling down the back. If 
the thermometer be used, it will be found that body 
temperature has begun to rise, it may be some two 
or three hours before the other and more strik'ing 
symptoms which ensue set in ; or it may be that the 
threatened attack will subside spontaneously without 



54 MALARIA [CHAP. 

culminating in the more pronounced phenomena of a 
fully developed ague. 

Cold stage. When rigor sets in, the feeling of 
cold spreads all over the body, becoming so intense 
that the teeth chatter and the patient shivers and 
shakes from head to foot. He seeks to cover himself 
with all the wraps he can lay hands on. Vomiting 
may become distressing. The features are pinched, 
the fingers are shrivelled, the skin is blue and cold- 
looking and may exhibit the condition known as 
" goose-skin " (cutis anserina). But the feeling of 
cold is entirely subjective ; if the temperature be 
taken, it is found to be already several degrees above 
normal and to be rapidly mounting. In young 
children it is not at all unusual to have a convulsive 
seizure at this stage a fact that has to be borne in 
mind, as it is very apt to lead to ideas of epilepsy. 

Hot stage. After a time the shivering gradually 
abates, giving place to, or alternating with, waves of 
warmth and, before long, to persisting feelings of 
intense heat and febrile distress. The wraps, which 
before were so eagerly hugged, are now tossed off; 
the face becomes flushed ; the pulse is rapid, full, 
and bounding ; headache may be intense ; vomiting 
frequent ; respiration hurried ; the skin dry and 
burning, the thermometer mounting to 104, 105, 
106 F., or even higher. 

Stveating stage. After one or more hours of 
acute distress the patient breaks out into a profuse 
perspiration, the sweat literally running off him 
and saturating his clothes and bedding. With the 
appearance of diaphoresis the fever rapidly declines ; 
headache, vomiting, thirst, and febrile distress giving 
place to a feeling of relief and tranquillity. By the 
time the sweating has ceased the patient may feel 
quite well ; a little languid, perhaps, but able to go 
about his usual occupation. The bodily temperature 
is now often subnormal, and may remain so until the 
approach of the next fit, one, two, or three days later. 

Duration of the fit. The duration of an ague 
fit and of its constituent stages is very variable. On 
an average it may be put at six to ten hours, the 



in] THE AGUE FIT 55 

cold stage occupying about an hour, the hot stage 
from three to four hours, the sweating stage from 
two to four hours. 

The urine in ague. During the cold stage the 
urine is often limpid and abundant, and is passed 
frequently ; but during the hot and sweating stages it 
is scanty, loaded, sometimes albuminous. The amount 
of urea is increased, particularly during the cold stage ; 
and so are the chlorides and sulphates. The phosphates, 
on the contrary, diminished during the rigor and hot 
stages, are increased during defervescence. The aug- 
mentation in the excretion of urea commences several 
hours before the subjective symptoms of the attack 
begin, attains its maximum towards the end of rigor, 
and decreases during the hot and sweating stages, 
although still continuing above the normal standard. 
The excretion of carbonic acid follows a correspond- 
ing course. Sydney Ringer was the first to point 
out the interesting fact that, although the return of 
fever may be prevented by the administration of 
quinine, yet, for a time, a periodic increase in the 
excretion of urea occurs on the days on which the 
fever fit was due. The urine is often deeply coloured, 
giving with nitric .acid the play of colour charac- 
teristic of bile pigment, or the brown colour described 
by Griibler as " hsemapheic." Glycosuiia does occur, 
but is by no means common. 

The spleen during the jit. The spleen becomes 
enlarged to a greater or less extent during rigor. 
At first the swelling disappears in the interval, but it 
tends to become more or less of a chronic feature if 
the attacks recur frequently, more especially if they 
are associated with pronounced cachexia. 

Period of the day at which ague commences. 
Two-thirds of agues come off between midnight and 
midday. This is a fact to remember in diagnosis ; 
especially when we have to face the possibility of 
recurrent pyrexial attacks being dependent on such 
conditions as liver abscess, tuberculosis, and septic 
states conditions, be it remarked, in which febrile 
recurrence takes place almost invariably during the 
afternoon or evening. 



56 MALARIA [CHAP. 

Atypical agues. Cases are frequently met 
with in which all the above symptoms are very 
much toned down ; in which, perhaps, a periodically 
recurring feeling of coldness, followed by languor, or 
a slight headache, or a slight rise of temperature, 
is the only symptom indicating the presence of 
the malaria parasite in the blood. In some fevers, 
and these by no means the least dangerous, the 
subjective symptoms may at first be of so mild a 
character that the patient is able to go about his 
duties with a body temperature of 103 or 104 F. ; 
he may have no severe rigor, no headache, no 
severe gastric symptoms, no acute febrile distress of 
a disabling character. Some of the African fevers 
so liable to assume suddenly a pernicious character 
are of this nature. On the other hand, notwith- 
standing a comparatively slight rise of temperature, 
headache, prostration, or vomiting may be extremely 
distressing. There is an infinite variety in this respect. 
Evidently the toxin if toxin there be of the malaria 
parasites is far from being a simple body ; probably, 
like tuberculin, it contains several ingredients arranged 
in different proportions in the several species and 
varieties of the parasite. Doubtless, also, the degree 
of infection, various combinations of the species of 
parasite, and individual idiosyncrasy play a part in 
determining the intensity and character of the re- 
action of the human body to the toxin. 

Terms employed. Acute malarial attacks 
which recur daily are called quotidian ague ; if they 
recur every second day, they are called tertian ague ; 
if every third day, they are called quartan ague. 
As a rule, the attacks tend to occur about the 
same time every day. In some cases the time of 
recurrence becomes earlier each day ; such fevers are 
said to anticipate. Or they may occur at a later 
hour ; in which case they are said to postpone. When 
the individual paroxysms are prolonged, so that one 
attack has not concluded before the next commences, 
the fever fits are said to be subintrant. When the 
fit is prolonged and periodicity is marked by only 
a slight fall of temperature, a slight sweating, a 



in] THE AGUE FIT 5? 

slight feeling of chilliness, the fever is said to remit 
to be a remittent. Sometimes there is no remission ; 
such a fever is said to be continued. It occasionally 
happens that two distinct pyrexial attacks come off 
the same day ; such a fever is said to be double. All 
sorts of blendings of malignant infections, benign 
tertians, and quartans occur ; in such the infection is 
said to be a mixed infection. 

Relation of the phenomena of the fever 
lit to the stages of the parasite. All the 
differences and peculiarities in the clinical phenomena 
of a malarial attack, complicated and hard to inter- 
pret in many cases though they be, are, it is believed, 
directly correlated to the phases of the intracorporeal 
life of the parasite ; this organism is, in fact, the key 
to their interpretation. As already mentioned, as the 
time of rigor approaches, the pigment of the parasite, 
hitherto scattered throughout the substance of the 
little animal, becomes concentrated, and segmentation 
proceeds. Shortly before and during_rigor, and as_ 
a direct cause of rigor, tEesese^mented jparasites 
are breaking up and, presumably, liberating their 
toxins. At the end of rigor, during the hot and 
during the sweatiiig~stages, ffie young parasites of 
the hew" generation the small intracorpuscular 
bodiesj~SSd~"the leucocytes carrying the hsemozoin 
liberated at the breaking up of the segmented 
bodies are in evidence, and the toxins liberated, at 
the same time are being eliminated. During the 
interval the intracorpuscular parasites grow, become 
pigmenFed7~and prepare for maturation. From the 
fact that parasites are present in the blood during 
apyrexia, and often in great abundance, it is evident 
that it is not the mere presence of the parasite in 
the blood corpuscle that causes the fever; most 
likely, as suggested, the pyrogenic agent is some 
toxin which is liberated and becomes free in the 
liquor sanguinis on the breaking up of the parasite. 
Consequently, we find that in remittent and continued 
types of malarial fevers segmenting parq,RJtpg may be 
met with at all stages of the fever ; and, conversely, 
th"a"t~when parasites at all stages of development are 



58 



MALARIA 



IOTAP. 



met with, the associated fever is probably remittent, 
irregular, or more or less continued in type. 

The foregoing are generalities which apply to all 
the types of malarial infection. 

QUARTAN INFECTION 

The parasite. The parasite of quartan fever, 
Plasmodium malarice (Fig. 20), has a cycle of 
seventy -two hours. At its earliest stages of 
epicorpuscular and of early unpigmented intracor- 
puscular life it takes the form of a small, roundish, 
clear speck (Plate I., Fig. 1, a), showing up some- 
what distinctly against the haemoglobin of the in- 
vaded corpuscle. At this stage, as contrasted with 
the other species of malaria parasites, it is further 




Fig. 20. Quartan parasite : asexual stage : stained. 

distinguished by the feebleness of its amoeboid 
movement. Later, as soon as it becomes pig- 
mented (Fig. 20, 6, c, d, e,f\ all amoeboid movement 
ceases. (See also Plate I., Fig. 1, b, c, c?, e, f.) 
Relatively to the other malaria parasites, the 
hsemozoin carried by the quartan is large in amount 
and coarse in grain, sometimes forming short rods. 
The segmented or mature parasite (Fig. 20, g, h) 
is made up of eight to ten elements arranged 
daisy - fashion and, generally, very symmetrically 
around the now centrally placed and massive block 
of very black hsemozoin. About the centre in each of 
the spherical or pear-shaped segments, which are 
slightly rough in outline, a shining nucleolus can 
usually be readily made out. 

The gametocyte, or sexual form, is a spherical 







d\' 



>o 













r 




. - 

i\ i 




Malaria parasites. {Compiled from Thayer and Hewetson ) 

Fig. 1. Parasite of quartan infection. Fig. 2. Parasite of benign tertian 
infection. Fig. 3. Parasite of subtertian infection ("aestivo- 
autnmnal "). For details of references, see text. 



PLATE I 



m] QUARTAN INFECTION 59 

pigmented body looking like an ordinary large intra- 
corpuscular pigmented parasite (Plate I., Fig. 1, i) 
that has escaped from the red corpuscle in which it 
had developed. It may be recognized sometimes by 
the very active movement of the haemozoin granules. 
This phase, rarely seen, occurs almost exclusively 
during the pyrexial stage of the cycle. Further, the 
quartan parasite does not, as does that next to be 
described the tertian parasite cause marked en- 
largement of the blood corpuscle in which it lies ; 
on the contrary, the including corpuscle has often 
a shrunken appearance with haemoglobin darker 
than normal. When mature it completely fills the 
normal-sized corpuscle, scarcely a rim of haemoglobin 
being visible (Fig. 20, f) ; so that it sometimes looks 
at this stage as if it were a free and independent 
body floating about in the liquor sanguinis.* All 
quartan parasites do not proceed to segmentation, 
or to gamete formation ; some are said to degenerate 
into the peculiar clear, dropsical-looking spheres, filled 
with dancing particles (Plate I., Fig. 1, i), which form 
a striking feature in certain malarial bloods. A con- 
siderable proportion of these free, dropsical-looking 
bodies, with active haemozoin, are probably male 
gametocytes which, after being placed on the micro- 
scope slide, and after escaping from corpuscles, have 
failed to project their microgamete filaments ; others, 
doubtless, are granular female gametes. The failure 
to project microgametes, in many instances, is prob- 
ably not normal, but an effect of mechanical dis- 
turbance from pressure of the cover-glass, or of 
other circumstances inherent to the artificial con- 
ditions under which we necessarily observe these 
bodies. In more normal conditions the emission of 
microgametes may be more frequently effected. 

The "daisy" as it is sometimes called or seg- 
mented phase of the quartan parasite, is more 
frequently seen in the peripheral blood than is the 
corresponding phase of the other malarial parasites. 

* In malarial blood the corpuscles are apt to vary in size, as in 
other anaemic conditions. A quartan parasite in a megalocyte 
may therefore simulate a tertian. Usually the including blood - 
corpuscle is, or seems, smaller than normal. 



60 MALARIA [CHAP. 

For this reason, and because of the easy visibility of 
the parasite at all its stages owing to its size and to the 
large amount of hsemozoin it carries, and because the 
entire intracorporeal cycle is completed in the peri- 
pheral blood, the quartan is the best form of malaria 
parasite for the beginner to study. 

Geographical distribution. The fever which 
the quartan parasite gives rise to single, double, or 
treble quartan ague is, relatively, much more common 
in temperate latitudes than in the tropics. Formerly 
it was common enough in England ; it is still far 
from rare in the malarious districts of north and 
mid-Europe and, doubtless, elsewhere under similar 
climatic and telluric conditions. But as we pro- 
ceed south it becomes, relatively to the other forms 
of malaria, rarer. In the tropics in some highly 
malarious places it is unknown. Thus, in a paper 
read at the Calcutta Medical Congress of 1894, 
Crombie mentioned that in his large experience he 
had rarely seen quartan ague. As his experience 
applied particularly to Calcutta and its environs, it 
may not hold for the whole country ; in fact, Ross 
and others state that the quartan parasite is common 
enough in Madras and elsewhere in India. It is the 
dominating species in certain malarious districts of 
Ceylon and the Malay States. I have seen it in 
blood films from Mauritius ; Ross mentions it as 
occurring in Sierra Leone. Doubtless it occurs in 
limited districts throughout the tropics. Thus, though 
relatively rare in many of the West India Islands, 
it is a common form, according to Freeman, in 
Antigua. The general statements that quartan ague 
is, relatively to the other forms of malaria, more a 
disease of the temperate zones than of the tropics, 
and, further, that both in the tropical and temperate 
zones it has topographically a very limited distribu- 
tion, probably express the truth. 

The fever. The ague fit in quartan is generally 
smart while it lasts, and well defined as regards its 
constituent stages (Chart 1). It does not tend so 
markedly, as is the case with the other malarial 
infections, to the rapid development of cachexia. 



Ill] 



TERTIAN INFECTION 



61 



Although the individual attacks are very amenable 
to quinine, the infection appears to be of a more 
persistent nature than that of tertian and subtertian 
malaria ; attacks, therefore, are prone to recur during 
several years. 

TERTIAN INFECTION 

The parasite. The early stage of the benign 
tertian parasite, Plasmodium vivax (Plate I., Fig. 2), 




Chart 1. Quartan ague. 

resembles that of the quartan inasmuch as it consists 
of a small pale speck on, or in, the invaded red blood- 
corpuscle (Plate I., Fig. 2, a); it differs in exhibiting 
very much greater amoeboid activity, changing its form 
and location in the corpuscle incessantly, besides push- 
ing out and retracting pseudopodia (Plate I., Fig. 2, b). 
This amoeboid activity persists during growth and the 
formation of haemozoin, though in a progressively 
diminishing degree ; it gives rise to great and rapidly 



-41* 



-40 



-38 



-37 



L-36" 



62 MALARIA [CHAP. 

changing irregularities in the contour of the para- 
site (Plate I., Fig. 2, c, d, e\ but is almost entirely 
suspended by the time hsemozoin-concentration is 
effected. In the tertian parasite the haemozoin par- 
ticles are, on the whole, finer than those of the 
quartan parasite ; and, moreover, are in a state of 
much more active and incessant movement, constantly 
changing their position in the peripheral region in 
which they, for the most part, seem to lie (Plate I., 
Fig. 2, /). Another, and highly characteristic, ac- 
companiment of tertian infection is the considerable 
hypertrophy and marked decoloration of the corpuscles 
containing the parasite (Plate I., Fig. 2, d, e, f y g). 
Sometimes the affected corpuscles seem nearly twice the 
diameter of the healthy ones ; and nearly always, if 
the parasite is of any magnitude, the rim of haemoglobin 
has a " washed-out " look, sometimes being almost 
colourless. 

In corpuscles invaded by the tertian parasite, 
deep coloration with Leishman's or Giemsa's stains 
brings out a feature which does not occur in those 
attacked by quartan or subtertian parasites. With 
these stains in tertian-invaded corpuscles the haemo- 
globin is speckled with chromophilic particles called 
" Schiiffner's dots." This is a feature of some diagnostic 
value. In the very young phases of the parasite it is 
not always present ; unfortunately for its diagnostic 
value, these are just the phases that are difficult 
to diagnose from quartans and subtertians. 

In the tertian parasite, when segmentation is com- 
pleted, the resulting body, instead of the very sym- 
metrical, daisy-like figure of the quartan, resembles 
rather a cluster of grapes in some more or less central 
part of which one or two masses of dark pigment 
have accumulated among the berries (Plate I., Fig. 2, 
h; also Figs. 1 and 2, b). The little spherules form- 
ing the cluster fifteen to twenty-six in number 
are smaller, smoother, and more spherical than those 
of the quartan parasite ; seldom, in the unstained 
condition, exhibiting their nuclei. I believe that in 
natural, uncompressed conditions the tertian " rosette," 
as it is called, tends to pass from the disc form, 



Ill] 



TERTIAN INFECTION 



63 



impressed on it originally by the shape of the corpuscle, 
to something more approaching a globular form. 

In the tertian, as in the quartan parasite, the 
gametocyte is a spherical body resembling closely the 
mature parasite from which the segmented body is 
evolved (Plate I., Fig. 2, ;). It is seen more particu- 
larly, just as in the case of the quartan infection, 
after and not infrequently about the time of rigor. 
The tertian gametocyte is considerably larger than 
that of the quartan and subtertian parasite. 



1 

105 
104 
103 
102 
101 
100 
99 

,rmal 

"fr 
tf 



JUNE 13 



A.M. 



4812 



4812 



14 



4812 



15 



4812 




4812 



16 



4812 



4812 



V 



4812 



4812 



18 



4812 



Chart 2. Benign tertian ajjue. 

Geographical distribution. The tertian para- 
site, probably the commonest form of malaria parasite, 
occurs in temperate and tropical latitudes alike. It 
is often met with as a double infection, and is, 
perhaps, the most frequent cause of quotidian as 
well as of tertian agues. 

The fever. The fever it gives rise to, except in 
the matter of the spacing, which is one of forty-eight 



64 MALARIA [CHAP. 

hours, resembles that caused by the quartan parasite 
(Chart 2). 

MALIGNANT INFECTIONS 

Many authorities refuse to recognize more than 
one species of crescent-forming parasite. On the 
other hand, carefully conducted observations, both 
microscopical and clinical, seem to indicate a plurality 
of species. I shall follow the latter view. 

The three parasites (Plate I, Fig. 3, and Plate 
II., Fig. 1) described by the Italian pathologists in 
connection with malignant malarial infection, although 
often associated together as well as with the benign 
parasites, are each of them occasionally found in what 
may be termed pure culture. From a study of 
such cases the morphological and distinguishing char- 
acters of the different species, and their special patho- 
logical effects, have been more or less satisfactorily 
made out. Although much remains to be done, 
enough is already known to enable us, in a measure, 
to differentiate them from each other as well as from 
the benign parasites, and to justify their being placed 
in a group by themselves. 

Characters possessed in common by the 
malignant parasites. One notable feature in 
regard to them is that they are very much smaller 
than the benign parasites. The earlier unpig- 
mented phase, owing partly to minuteness, partly 
to its forming but a thin and very transparent 
object in the haemoglobin, is hard to see. When 
first mounted on the slide the amoeboid movements 
are very active (Plate I., Fig. 3, d). In a short 
time these subside somewhat, and then the little 
parasites tend to assume a more passive condition and 
to arrange themselves as tiny, though very definite 
and easily recognized, rather bright, colourless rings 
(Plate I., Fig. 3, a, b, c, e). Sometimes these rings 
may revert to the amoeboid condition, and this, 
perhaps, for several times in succession ; ultimately 
the ring form becomes permanent. Multiple infection 
of individual corpuscles (Plate I., Fig. 3, g) is often 
encountered, and this much more frequently than in 
the benign infections ; doubtless, this is owing to the 





^ ^ 



, . * 4> . 
. J .- ' *' 



r* 



V' * 




'' 



\\ @ 




Malaria parasites. (Kelsch and Kiener.} 

Fig. 1. Parasites of the pigmented malignant quotidian (Marchiafava and 
Bignaini). Fig. 2. Brain capillaries containing malaria parasites. 
A, transverse section, the blood-corpuscles at periphery invaded 
by implemented parasites ; I >. vessel filled with sporulating unpig- 
mented parasites ; ( , blood-corpuscles in capillary, and others 
free in the brain substance, each containing small pigmented para- 
sites I Mamtaberg} Fig. 3. Pernicious malaria (spleen). Fig. 4. 
Pernicious malaria (liver). 



PLATE II. 



m] MALIGNANT INFECTIONS 65 

prodigious number of parasites present in some 
malignant infections. As development advances, the 
invaded corpuscles seem to be filtered out by the 
capillaries and small arteries (Plate II., Fig. 2, A, B, c) 
of the deeper viscera and of the bone marrow. So that 
even in severe infections the later pigmented stages 
are by no means proportionately represented by, or 
even frequently encountered in, finger blood ; the seg- 
menting form (Plate I., Fig. 3, i, j) still less so. To 
find numerous examples of the more advanced stages 
of these parasites it is necessary to aspirate splenic 
blood, or to search in fatal cases in the deeper viscera, 
or in the bone marrow immediately after death. 
Owing to this absence of the more advanced forms 
from the peripheral circulation, the duration of the life 
span of these parasites is difficult to fix ; probably it 
varies between twenty-four and forty-eight hours, being 
not very constant even in the same type. 

"Brassy bodies." Malignant parasites fre- 
quently lead to a shrivelling of the invaded corpuscles, 
many of which, in consequence, are small, crenated, or 
folded, and very dark. This corpuscle the Italians, from 
its colour, have designated " brassy body " (Plate I., 
Fig. 3, e). In the interior of these corpuscles the para- 
site can generally be made out as a minute pale ring. 

The crescent-foody characteristic. Most 
distinctive feature of all, the malignant parasites at 
all events the subtertian form crescent gametocytes. 

Time when crescents appear ; not a fever 
form. It has been already remarked that these cres- 
cent bodies are not to be seen at the very commencement 
of an infection. A week usually elapses between the 
first appearance in the peripheral blood of the small 
intracorpuscular parasites and the first appearance of 
the crescent bodies.* Once the latter begin to appear, 

* There has been a good deal of speculation as to why certain 
parasites develop into schizonts, whilst others become gameto- 
cytes. The circumstance of the late appearance of the gamete 
is looked upon by some as evidence that the blood, from repeated 
development in it of swarms of endogenous parasites, has become 
exhausted as a pabulum, and that in consequence of this the para- 
site is directed to a line of development providing for life and 
growth elsewhere, that is in the mosquito. The analogy of other 
sporozoa and of the bacteria supports this view. 

D 



66 MALARIA [CHAP. 

they generally tend to increase in number during a 
few days. They may persist, though after a time in 
decreasing numbers, in the circulation for one, two, 
three, or even six weeks after the small fever-causing 
intracorpuscular parasites and their associated fever 
have disappeared, whether spontaneously or in conse- 
quence of the administration of quinine. Although, 
when given early in an infection, quinine may prevent 
the appearance of crescents, yet, when they are once 
formed, the drug has apparently no influence on 
these bodies nor on their capacity for emitting 
microgametes. The crescent body does not cause 
fever ; its presence is usually associated with marked 
cachexia. 

It is a singular fact that in many of the worst 
types of tropical malaria as that of tropical Africa 
crescents are few in number, and in some instances 
cannot by ordinary examination be found. A. Plehn 
states that during a period of two years in Africa he 
only once saw the flagellated body. On the other 
hand, when we meet with these African infections in 
England, crescents are frequently encountered, and 
often in great abundance ; at all events, this is my 
experience. 

Characters of the fever. It is found that 
the fevers produced by the malignant parasites are apt 
to be very irregular in their course. The rigor stage 
is relatively less marked ; the pyrexial stage is more 
prolonged, and is often characterized by a tendency 
to adynamic conditions, together with vomiting, 
intestinal catarrh, pains in the limbs, anorexia, severe 
headache, and depression. After apparent recovery 
from the fever there is a great proneness to relapse at 
more or less definite intervals of from eight to fourteen 
days. Such fevers are accompanied by rapid destruc- 
tion of corpuscles, and are usually followed by marked 
cachexia. At any time in their course symptoms of 
the gravest character may declare themselves. 

QUOTIDIAN INFECTIONS 

The quotidian infections are comparatively rare ; 
at all events, they have not been very frequently 



Ill] 



QUOTIDIAN INFECTIONS 



67 



recognized or adequately described. Many regard 
them as but varieties of the common subtertian 
infection. 

The parasite. The parasites are said to be of 
two kinds (very generally in association), the pig- 
mented, Laverania prcecox (Plate II., Fig. 1), and 
the unpigmented, Laverania immaculata. In both 
the cycle is approximately one of twenty-four hours ; 
in both the young parasites exhibit very active move- 
ments, and tend to assume the ring form. Before 
segmentation they grow so as to occupy from one-fifth 




Chart 3. Quotidian infection. 

to one-third . only of the corpuscle. Both form little 
heaps of from six to eight very minute spores. 

In the unpigmented parasite haemozoin is never 
seen unless it be in the crescent phase a phase the 
occurrence of which has not been satisfactorily estab- 
lished ; in this phase, however, hsemozoin is never 
absent. In the pigmented parasite there is a con- 
siderable amount of fine hsemozoin, which at the seg- 
menting stage rarely seen in peripheral blood 
collects in the usual way into one or two more or 
less central clumps. 

The fever. The fever is such as just described, 
a typhoid-like depression being generally a prominent 
feature in well-marked cases (Chart 3). 



68 



MALARIA 



[CHAP. 



SUBTERTIAN INFECTION 

Xlie parasite. Laverania malarice (Plasmo- 
dium falciparum, Blan.) the usual parasite (Fig. 21) 
of malignant infection is, in many respects, like 
that of ordinary tertian, only smaller, attaining 
when mature from a half to two-thirds the size of 
the corpuscle it occupies. The infected blood-cor- 
puscle may be altered in colour in the direction of 
being either darker or lighter ; sometimes it shrinks, 
or it may become a "brassy body." The segments of 
the rarely encountered mature segmenting parasite 
number usually ten or twelve, and are arranged 
along with the associated clump or clumps of hsemo- 




Fig. 21. Evolution of the subtertian parasite : asexual cycle. 

zoin in an irregular heap. The crescent - shaped 
gametocyte is a characteristic feature. 

The fever. The associated symptoms are, in 
many respects, very different from those caused by 
the tertian parasite. In the first place, although 
rigor is not so marked, the hot stage lasts longer 

often exceeding twenty - four hours ; in fact, the 

tendency for the successive paroxysms to overlap, 
to become subintrant, is very marked. Moreover, 
where the intermissions are distinct, as Marchiafava 
and Bignami point out, the crisis is generally unlike 
that of ordinary tertian. There is frequently what is 
called a " double crisis " ; that is to say, when the fever 
has attained its apparent f astigium there is a drop of 
one or more degrees of temperature the " false crisis " 
to be followed by a fresh rise, which is then followed 



Ill] 



SUBTERTIAN INFECTION 



69 



by the " true crisis." This peculiar phenomenon the 
writers referred to attribute to the presence of two 
swarms of parasites, one of which matures somewhat 
later than the other. (Chart 4.) 

The tendency to the development of pernicious 
symptoms, to the production of cachexia, and to 
relapse is similar to what appears to be the case in 
malignant quotidian infections. 



'7th. day 




Chart 4. Subtertian infection. 

Geographical distribution. All these malig- 
nant parasites are confined to the warmer regions of 
the earth, and to the more intensely malarial districts 
in these ; hence the name " tropical " which has been 
applied to this type of infection. In the sub- tropical 
zones they* occur as first infections only in late 
summer or early autumn ; hence the name " sestivo- 
autumnal."* 

* This peculiarity as regards seasonal and geographical dis- 
tribution of subtertian malaria may be explained, as Grassi, 
Jancs6, and others have pointed out, by the fact that for its develop- 
ment in the mosquito the subtertian parasite demands a higher 



70 MALARIA [CHAP. 

Microscopical examinations in malignant 
fevers. In malignant infections the pigmented phase 
of the fever- causing forms of the parasite is not very 
frequently met with in peripheral blood. When found, 
and especially when it is observed that the pigment 
has become concentrated, it is a sure indication that a 
paroxysm is impending. On the occurrence of chilli- 
ness or of rigor, and at least during the earlier stages 
of the paroxysm, many small unpigmented parasites, 
sometimes exhibiting active amoeboid movement, some- 
times appearing as rings, will be found in finger blood ; 
but towards the end of the fever these unpigmented 
forms often diminish in number, and all evidence of 
parasitic infection may even disappear from the blood 
till the approach or incidence of the next paroxysm, 
Of course, crescents and pigmented leucocytes may be 
found during these temporary absences of the intra- 
corpuscular parasites. The segmenting forms of the 
malignant parasite are best fouhd by aspirating the 
spleen with a hypodermic needle hardly a justifiable 
procedure unless in exceptional circumstances. 

CLINICAL FORMS OP MALARIAL FEVERS 

Oeneral statements. The foregoing account, 
so far as it goes, and so far as it relates to the clinical 
manifestations produced by uncomplicated and typical 
infections, is true enough. But, as there may be an 
infinite variety as regards the number of the para- 
sites present, individual susceptibility, concurrence of 
several species (mixed infection being far from uncom- 
mon), or of several generations of the same species 
of parasite maturing at different times, there may be a 
corresponding variety in the clinical manifestations. 

In more temperate climates, and in the winter 

and spring seasons of warmer latitudes, malarial 



atmospheric temperature than suffices for the quartan and tertian 
parasites. Hence, although these two benign and the subtertiau 
parasites are generally found associated together, and the latter 
can be acquired at any time in the tropics, it is only in the summer 
or early autumn that it can be acquired in the sub-tropics and 
temperate zones. It is stated that if the temperature falls below 
15 C. the development of the oocyst in the mosquito is 
arrested. 



in] CLINICAL FORMS 71 

fevers are usually distinct intermittents. Fresh in- 
fections occurring in these places and seasons, so 
far as the subject has been studied, are found to 
be produced by the tertian and quartan parasites, 
and are, therefore, of little danger. Relapses, how- 
ever, of malignant infections, originally contracted 
during the hot weather, may occur during the cold 
season in fact, are far from uncommon then. 

First attacks, though produced by one of the 
benign parasites, may assume the characters of a 
remittent ; generally, in temperate latitudes, they 
are frank intermittents. First attacks of malignant 
malaria, although they may in a few instances be 
intermittent, are in the majority of cases remittent 
in type. So are the attacks resulting from extensive 
reinforcement by fresh parasites (through fresh in- 
fection) of the old stock which a fever subject may 
carry about him in a latent condition. The first 
attack experienced by a new-comer to a highly 
malarious district with a hot climate is, therefore, 
generally remittent and severe. 

It is neither necessary nor desirable to attempt to 
describe in detail the infinite variety malarial attacks 
exhibit. It would be impossible in a limited space to 
do so ; and, if done, the result would amount only to an 
uninteresting and unprofitable ringing of the changes 
on rigor, pyrexia, diaphoresis, bilious vomiting, bilious 
diarrhrea, constipation, catarrhal gastritis, headache, 
bone-ache, prostration, and so forth. The picture would 
be further confused by the fact that the natural pro- 
cession of events is generally, nowadays, disturbed 
by the action of quinine, the use of which is almost 
universal with Europeans in the tropics ; so that it is 
difficult to say how any given malarial fever would 
develop, or how it would terminate, if untreated. 
Sometimes in the case of natives of tropical countries, 
who may not always command a few grains of quinine, 
such fevers pass into a typhoid state, with dry brown 
tongue, sordes in the mouth, and muttering delirium, 
and may end in collapse and death. In others, un- 
treated remittents and intermittents gradually subside 
spontaneously in the course of a week or fortnight ; or 



72 MALARIA [CHA*. 

the remittent may merge into an intermittent which, 
in the course of weeks or months, subsides for a time, 
to recur every now and again at longer or shorter 
intervals. These recurrences may take place at fairly 
definite intervals ; " long-interval fevers " the Italians 
have named them. Kelsch and Kiener allowed 
certain remittents in Europeans to run their course 
unchecked by quinine ; they found that in ten or 
twelve days the fever gradually expended itself. 
Under favourable hygienic conditions the parasite 
and the associated fever frequently disappear together 
spontaneously. Occasionally the fever forms of the 
parasite may be present in the blood for days on end 
without causing acute clinical symptoms. 

REMITTENT TYPES 

Bilious remittent. One type of fever, known 
as bilious remittent, has long been recognized on 
account of the bilious vomiting, gastric distress, some- 
times bilious diarrho3a, sometimes constipation, which 
accompany the recurring exacerbations. It is further 
distinguished by the pronounced icteric or, rather, 
reddish - yellow or saffron tint of skin and sclerse ; 
a tint derived, probably, not from absorption of bile 
as in obstructive jaundice, but from modified haemo- 
globin (hsemaphein) free in the blood or deposited 
in the derma and sclerotica. These bilious remittents 
are very common in the more highly malarious districts 
of Africa, America, the West Indies, India, and, in 
fact, in all malarious tropical countries. They are not 
specially nor directly dangerous in themselves, but 
they result usually in profound anaemia, and are often 
but the prelude to chronic malarial saturation, bad 
health, and invaliding. 

Typhoid remittent. A modification of the 
bilious remittent what Kelsch and Kiener call 
" typhoid remittent " is very much more grave as 
affecting life than the simple bilious remittent. In 
the typhoid remittent, typhoid symptoms such as low 
delirium, prostration, dry tongue, swelling of spleen 
and liver, subsultus tendinum, marked melanaemia 
are superadded to the usual symptoms. Though re- 



in] PERNICIOUS ATTACKS 73 

covery is the rule, a considerable proportion of such 
attacks prove fatal. 

Adynamic remittent. The same writers class 
by themselves a set of cases they call "adynamic 
remittent "; cases which are characterized by fatuous- 
ness, restlessness, nervous depression, intense muscular 
and cardiac debility, profound and rapid blood de- 
terioration, icterus, leucocytosis, melansemia, liability 
to syncope, occasionally haemoglobinuria, liability to 
haemorrhages, and a marked tendency to local gangrene. 

Tuberculosis, syphilis, renal disease, or alcoholism 
will often be found as factors in determining the two 
latter types of fever. 

PERNICIOUS ATTACKS 

Many writers have drawn attention to what are 
called pernicious attacks or pernicious symptoms 
the French neatly designate them "acces pernicieux " 
a series of phenomena, the possibility of the appear- 
ance of which, not only in the course of remittents, 
but in the course of what is seemingly only an 
ordinary paroxysm of intermittent fever, should 
never be lost sight of by the practitioner in tropical 
climates. These " acces pernicieux " may supervene 
in apparently mild cases and carry off the patient 
with horrifying suddenness as suddenly as an 
attack of malignant cholera. The wary practitioner 
is always on the look-out for them, and is always 
prepared with measures to meet them promptly when 
they threaten. 

Pernicious attacks are roughly classified into 
cerebral and algide. The cerebral are divisible into 
hyperpyrexial, comatose, convulsive, . paretic, and so 
forth; the algide into syncopal, choleriform, dysenteric, 
hsemorrhagic, etc. 

CEREBRAL FORMS 

Hyperpyrexial. There can be little doubt that 
many of the cases of sudden death from hyperpyrexia 
and coma, usually credited to what has been called 
"ardent fever" or " heat apoplexy," are really 
malarial. If careful inquiry be made into the 



74: MALAEIA [CHAP. 

antecedents of many of these cases, a history of mild 
intermittent fever will often be elicited ; or it will be 
found that the patient had been living in some highly 
malarious locality. 

In the course of what seemed to be an ordinary 
malarial attack the body temperature, instead of 
stopping at 104 or 105 F., may continue to rise 
and, passing 107, rapidly mount to 110 or even 
to 112. The patient, after a brief stage of wild 
maniacal or, perhaps, muttering delirium, becomes 
rapidly unconscious, then comatose, and dies within 
a few hours, or perhaps within an hour, of the onset 
of the pernicious symptoms. 

Comatose. Or the patient, without hyper- 
pyrexia, the thermometer perhaps not rising above 
104, or even lower, may lapse into coma. The coma 
may pass away with crisis of sweating ; on the other 
hand, an asthenic condition may set in and death 
from collapse supervene. 

Other cerebral forms. Besides these hyper- 
pyretic and comatose conditions, other forms of 
cerebral attack may occur in the course of malarial 
fevers. Thus, there may be sudden delirium ending 
in coma and, perhaps, death : convulsive seizures of 
an epileptic or of a tetanic character, with or with- 
out delirium or coma forms especially common in 
children, and too often misdiagnosed and with fatal 
consequences ; conditions simulating cerebro- spinal 
meningitis ; delusional insanity ; dementia ; various 
forms of apoplectic-like conditions and of paralysis, 
complicated, it may be, with aphasia. Seizures of this 
description, if not fatal, may eventuate in permanent 
psychical disturbances. Temporary debility, or even 
complete loss of memory, may succeed severe malarial 
infection. 

Embolism of cerebral capillaries. These cerebral 
attacks are now explained, and it appears to me 
correctly explained, by the supposition, founded on 
actual post-mortem observation, that they depend on 
embolism by the malaria parasite of the capillaries 
of the various nerve centres involved (Plate II., 
Fig. 2) ; in hyperpyrexia, the thermic centres ; in 



mj PERNICIOUS ATTACKS 75 

aphasia, Broca's convolution ; and so on. By micro- 
scopical examination of properly prepared sections of 
the brain in fatal cases, such a plugging of the ves- 
sels can generally be readily observed. The earlier 
students of malarial melanaemia had remarked the 
presence of haemozoin in the cerebral capillaries in 
many cases of this description, and, overlooking the 
including parasite, attributed the associated symptoms 
to thrombosis by the haemozoin. 

Malarial amblyopia. In rare instances a 
comatose pernicious attack eventuates in blindness. 
The amblyopia is usually transient, lasting for an 
hour or two only. On the other hand, it may be 
persistent ; in which case, according to Poncet, optic 
neuritis, peripapillary oedema, extravasation of leuco- 
cytes, plugging of retinal and choroidal vessels by 
parasites or pigmented leucocytes, and consequent 
multiple haemorrhages, may be found in the fundus. 
If the haemorrhages are minute they are discoverable 
by the microscope only. These fundus changes differ 
from those in quinine amblyopia. In the latter, 
depending on retinal anaemia from toxic spasm of the 
arterioles, the amblyopia is more persistent ; the discs 
are white and the vessels shrunken; there are no 
inflammatory symptoms; and central vision is the 
first to recover. (See Table on p. 76.) 

ALGIDE FORMS 

The algide forms of pernicious attack, as indicated 
by the name, are characterized by collapse, extreme 
coldness of the surface of the body, and a tendency 
to fatal syncope. These symptoms usually coexist 
with elevated axillary and rectal temperature. 

Gastric form. This may be associated with, 
and in a measure be dependent on, acute catarrhal 
dyspeptic trouble. It is accompanied by severe 
epigastric distress, tender retracted abdomen, and in- 
cessant vomiting. The vomited matter may contain 
blood. 

Choleraic form. Malarial attacks are some- 
times accompanied by choleraic symptoms. The stools 
suddenly become loose, profuse, and numerous. They 



76 




o> _> g 



s US 

003 




A SL P -3 

I II 2 

. o ;: s fi 

"8 s> i'-S g 2 |_ 

il-^lil-i 



Sf-8 - s lf 

111 




PERNICIOUS ATTACKS 77 

are not generally so profuse or colourless as the rice- 
water discharge which pours from the patient in true 
cholera; they retain a certain amount of biliary 
colouring, and may be mucoid or even bloody. As 
in cholera, the serous drain may lead to cramps in 
the limbs, loss of voice, pinched features, "washer- 
woman's fingers," almost complete suppression of 
urine, and, perhaps, to fatal collapse. Such attacks 
are very deceptive, and may be mistaken for true 
cholera. The high axillary temperature, if present ; 
a history, maybe, of recent ague fits ; the subsequent 
rapid disappearance of choleraic symptoms on the 
appearance of the hot and sweating stages ; the 
colour of the stools, and other collateral circumstances, 
usually suffice for diagnosis, particularly if they are 
supplemented by a microscopical examination of the 
blood. Although not usual, recurrence of the choleraic 
symptoms may take place at the next fever period. 
A dangerous type of malarial fever prevalent in 
the Punjab is often ushered in by such symptoms ; 
without the microscope its true nature may be hard 
to recognize. 

Dysenteric and haemorrhagic forms. 
Another form of pernicious attack is characterized 
by the sudden appearance of dysenteric symptoms ; 
yet another by severe and recurring hsematemesis, 
or by haemorrhage from the bowel or elsewhere. 
The possibility of a suddenly developed dysentery 
being of malarial origin must therefore be kept in 
view ; particularly if in what appears to be ordinary 
dysentery axillary temperature is found to be abnor- 
mally high. In every case of dysentery of this kind, 
or of haemorrhage from stomach or bowel, in a patient 
who has recently been exposed to the chance of 
malarial infection, the possibility of the symptoms 
being an expression of malarial disease must never be 
overlooked ; an examination of the blood must be 
made in all such cases before treatment is instituted. 

Syncopal form. In the preceding types of 
algide pernicious malarial attack the dangerous symp- 
toms mostly show themselves in the rigor stage of the 
fever. There is yet another form in which the danger 



78 



TABULAR STATEMENT OF THE CHARACTER 

(Modified from 





DURATION 
OF DEVELOP- 
MENT 


MOVEMENT 


H^EMOZOIN 


MAXIMUM 

SIZE 


FORM OF 
SEGMENTATION 


1. Quartan 
parasite, Plas- 
modium mal- 
arite 


Seventy-two 
hours 


Slight move- 
ment in the im- 
mature forms 


Coarse grains ; 
little or no 
movement 


The size of 
a red blood- 
corpuscle 


Daisy form ; 
the single 
spores rough- 
ish, with dis- 
tinct nucle- 
olus 


2. Tertian 
parasite, Plus- 
modium vivax 


Forty - eight 
hours ; or 
less in an- 
tic i pating 
types 


Active amoeboid 
movement in 
the immature 
and also in the 
middle - aged 
forms 


Finer granules 
in immature 
forms ; often 
in the larger 
actively 
swarming 


Size of a 
red blood- 
cor puscle; 
sometimes 
even larger 


Sunflower or 
grape - like ; 
single spores 
small, round ; 
nucleolus 
rarely seen 


3. Piginented 
quotidian 
parasite, Lav- 
erania prcecox 


Twenty-four 
hours 


[n the unpig- 
mented imma- 
ture stage very 
actively amce- 
b o i d ; less 
active when 
haemozoin ac- 
cumulates 


Very fine; later 
coalesces in 
one or two 
clumps ; does 
not swarm 


i-|thesizeof 
a red blood- 
corpuscle 


Irregularly 
formed heap 


4. U n p i g - 
mented quo- 
tidian para- 
site,Lavera?ii 
immaculate 


Twenty-foni 
h ours or 
less 


Very active 
amoeboid move- 
ment 


None 


i-Jthesizeof 
a red blood- 
corpuscle 


Star - shaped, 
or in irregu- 
lar heaps 


5. Subtertian 
parasite. Lav- 
eraniamalaria: 
(Plasmodlum 
falciparum) 


Forty - eight 
hours or 
less 


Active; the 
movement re- 
mains present 
in the pig- 
mented stage 


Fine ; often 
shows oscil- 
latory move- 
ment 


i-f the size of 
a red blood- 
corpuscle 


frregularheaps 



79 



ISTICS OF THE VARIOUS MALARIA PARASITES 









RELATIVE NUM 




LIABILITY TO 


NUMBER 

OF 


FORM 

OF 


ALTERATIONS 
IN THE INFECTEE 


BER OF PARA- 
SITES SEEN IN 
PERI PHERAL 


INFLUENCE 

OF 


REAPPEARANCE 
OF PARASITE 


MERO- 
ZOITES 


GAMETO 
CYTE 


BLOOP- 
CORPUSCLE3 


AND VISCERAL 
BLOOD 


QUININE 


AFTER LEAVING 
INFECTIVE 












REGIONS 








RESPECTIVELY 






6-12 


A sphere 


The red blood 
corpuscles are 
little discol 


Parasites seen ii 
peripheralcircu 
lation through 


Causes disap 
pearance o 
parasite readily 


Liability persists 
for a very long 
period. 






cured, and are 


out the whole 










not materially 


cycle, and in as 










altered in size 


great numbers 










some appear 


as in viscera 










smaller 


blood 






15-20 
(often 
less) 


A sphere 


The red blood 
corpuscles are 
often hypertro 
phied, and lose 


Parasites seen in 
peripheralblooc 
throughout the 
whole cycle, but 


Causes disap 
pearance o 
parasite readily 


Liability persists 
for long period. 






colour, it may be 


not in such 










completely. 
Schiiffner's dots 


large numbers 
as in visceral 










in deeply stainec 


blood 










specimens 








6-8 


A cres- 


L'he red blood- 


An enormously 


Causes disap- 


After a few 


(even 
more) 


cent (?) 


corpuscles 
shrink often.and 
are then either 


greater number 
of parasites pre- 
sent in inter- 


pearance ol 
parasite less 
readily 


months, less lia- 
bility to recur- 
rence. 






darker - stained 


nal organs as 










(copper colour) 


compared with 










or may be com- 


peripheral blood 










pletely decolor- 


The latter part 










ized 


of the cycle 












takes place in 












internal organs 












only 






6-8 


A cres- 


'he red blood- 


Ditto 


Ditto 


Ditto. 




cent (?) 


corpuscles 












shrink fre- 












quently, and are 








10-12, 


A cres- 


riie red blood- 


Ditto 


Ditto 


Ditto 


rarely 


cent 


c o rp us cl es 








15-16 




shrink fre- 












quently ; they 












are dark, or may 












be perfectly col- 












ourless 









80 MALARIA 

appears to depend on an exaggeration of the symptom 
usually hailed as bringing relief and, for the time, 
freedom from danger. Thus the sweating of the stage 
of defervescence may be excessive and cause collapse, 
which, if the patient rise up suddenly or make an 
undue effort, may lead to fatal syncope. Weak and 
cachectic patients, therefore, should be warned of 
this possibility. 

The pathology of these various forms of algidity is 
in all likelihood of a very mixed character. In the gas- 
tric, choleraic, hsemorrhagic, and dysenteric types there 
is probably an accumulation of parasites in the vessels of 
the intestinal mucosa ; such accumulations of parasites 
have been described. In those attacks in which profuse 
sweating is the dangerous element, the diaphoresis may 
be regarded, at all events in part, as symptomatic of 
excessive blood destruction of what is, in reality, 
equivalent to a sudden and extensive haemorrhage ; 
or it may be that it is only an excessive reaction to 
the malarial toxin. The dangerous syncope attend- 
ing all types of algidity is secondary, and merely an 
expression of collapse. 

A phenomenon occasionally observed in pernicious 
attacks, especially in those of an algide type, is the 
flooding of the peripheral blood with vast numbers of 
parasites, it may be at all stages of development 
gametes as well as schizonts. The prognosis in such 
cases is bad. 

A practical experience of these suddenly developed 
pernicious fevers of the tropics teaches that we should 
never make light of any malarial attack ; particularly 
if it be of a mild irregular character and imperfectly 
controlled by quinine, and if small parasites, or the 
crescent form, be present. The practitioner should be 
on the alert for any danger signal mental aberration, 
restlessness, tremor, peculiarity in behaviour, altera- 
tion in knee reflexes, and other indications of grave 
implication of the nervous system. It further teaches 
that the subjects of such fevers should be particularly 
careful to guard against chills, fatigue, insufficient 
and unwholesome food, etc. 



CHAPTER IV 

MALARIA: MORBID ANATOMY AND 
PATHOLOGY 

The blood in malaria. As the malaria parasite 
is a blood parasite, we naturally expect that the primary 
effect of its presence will be exercised on, and mani- 
fested in, the blood ; and as the parasite lives in and 
at the expense of the corpuscles, destroying a certain 
proportion of them in fact, all those attacked 
we look, in the first instance, for a corresponding 
diminution in the number of the corpuscles an 
oligocythaemia., 

Oligocythc&mia. Accordingly, when in malarial 
disease we come to measure accurately the corpuscular 
richness of the blood, we do find a decided oligo- 
cythsemia. And not only this, but we find a degree of 
oligocythaemia greatly in excess of anything we might 
expect ; or which can be accounted for by, or is in 
correspondence with, the proportion of corpuscles 
attacked and directly consumed by the parasite, 
judging by what we see in finger blood peripheral 
blood. If, for example, every hundredth corpuscle 
contains a parasite we might look for something like 
a quotidian, tertian, or quartan 1-per-cent. reduction 
in the total number of blood corpuscles ; if every 
twentieth corpuscle contains a parasite a very high 
and unusual proportion we might look for a similarly- 
timed 5-per-cent. reduction. 

Now, this is an amount of haemolysis which should be 
easily compensated by the latent physiological hsemo- 
genic margin, and which one would not expect to 
show as a definite anaemia, or would expect to show 
only after the recurring drain had been kept up for 
some considerable time. But what are the clinical 
facts 1 One or two paroxysms only, of some mala- 
rial fevers, may be immediately followed by an 
81 



82 MALARIA [CHAP. 

anaemia so pronounced as to be discernible to the eye 
in the intense pallor of the skin and visible mucous 
surfaces. On counting the corpuscles in such a case 
we note a regular drop in their number of from 5 to 
10 per cent, per paroxysm. Often, after a single 
paroxysm of some pernicious fever, as many as half a 
million or even one million corpuscles per c.mm. drop 
out of the normal five millions; and this reduction 
may go on, as paroxysm follows paroxysm, until 
the corpuscular richness has fallen to one million, or 
even less. 

Diminished hcemoglobin value of corpuscles. Not 
only is there in many, in fact in most, cases of 
malarial disease a pronounced oligocythsemia, but 
there is, in addition, a marked diminution in the 
haemoglobin value of the surviving corpuscles ; it 
may fall 10, 20, or even as much as 50 per cent. 

Diminished amount of blood. And not only is 
there this marked diminution in the proportion of 
the corpuscles to the bulk of the blood and in their 
haemoglobin value, but there is, furthermore, in all 
malarial conditions of any considerable standing a 
marked diminution in the volume of blood. Thus it 
comes that at the post-mortem examination of such a 
case we do not always meet with that congestion of 
the organs which is so usual a feature in most specific 
fevers. On the contrary, although in quite recent 
cases visceral congestion may be marked enough, if 
a malarial fever has been of any considerable dura- 
tion the venous system, with the exception of that 
appertaining to the spleen, liver, and portal system 
generally, may be markedly empty. And thus it 
is that often, when we would make a preparation 
of blood from the living malarial patient, we may 
find that not only is the blood thin and watery, but 
that it does not flow freely from the pricked finger. 

Destruction and reparation of blood in first attacks 
and in relapses. There appears to be no very definite 
or manifest law governing the degree, progress, and 
quality of the anaemia of malarial disease. On the 
whole, and as rough general rules, it may be laid 
down that in any given case the anaemia is in pro- 



iv] MORBID ANATOMY 83 

portion to the severity of the febrile attacks ; that, 
although the loss of corpuscles following first attacks 
is usually very marked, this loss is rapidly made 
good ; that, although in relapses the loss of corpuscles 
is less than in first attacks, the tendency to reparation 
is also less. 

Morbid anatomy: Macroscopic. If the body 
of a patient who has died in the course of an 
acute attack of malarial disease be dissected, certain 
appearances are generally found. In the first place, 
and invariably, the spleen is enlarged often very 
much enlarged ; its surface is dark black some- 
times what is called pigmented. On section, the 
gland tissue is also found to be dark. Generally the 
parenchyma of the organ is so much softened as to be 
almost diffluent, so that the tarry pulp can sometimes 
be washed away by quite a gentle stream of water. 
The liver, too, is softened, congested; enlarged, and 
pigmented. The vessels of the pia mater and brain 
cortex are full, and the grey matter may present a 
peculiar leaden hue. The marrow of the spongy 
bones, such as the sternum and the bodies of the 
vertebrae, is also dark and congested \ and a similar 
state of pigmentation and perhaps congestion may be 
discovered in the lungs, alimentary canal, and kidneys. 
Microscopic : Malarial pigmentation. The pig- 
mentation referred to is pathognomonic of malaria. 
On submitting malarial blood from any part of the 
body to microscopical examination, it will be found 
to contain grains of hsemozoin. Particularly is this 
the case with blood from the organs just men- 
tioned ; microscopic sections (Plate II., Figs. 2, 3, 
4) will show more or less thickly distributed in 
the blood, and within the cells of the endothelium 
of the arterioles and capillaries, minute grains, or 
actual blocks, of the same intensely black substance. 
For the most part the hsemozoin grains are enclosed 
in leucocyte-like bodies which are either clinging to 
the walls or lying loose in the lumen of the vessels. 
Here and there the pigmented bodies may be so 
aggregated together that they form veritable thrombi 
and occlude the vessels. It is possible that many of 



84 MALAKIA [CHAP. 

fehese bodies are not pigmented leucocytes, but are 
really dead and breaking-down parasites ; for if the 
preparations were made within two or three hours of 
death that is to say, when the tissues were quite fresh 
it may be possible to see that the capillaries of some 
of the organs are full not only of haemozoin but also 
of parasites, a very large proportion of the blood cor- 
puscles containing them. Particularly is this the 
case with the spleen and bone marrow ; often, too, 
with the brain, liver, epiploon, and intestinal mucosa. 
The spleen and bone marrow are further distinguished 
from the other organs mentioned by the position in 
which the haemozoin occurs in them. In all organs 
the pigment is found in the blood-vessels, but only in 
these two organs is it found in the cells of the paren- 
chyma as well, and outside and away from the blood- 
vessels. This extravascular pigment is either free, or 
it lies in the large cells characteristic of these organs, 
or in the small cells of the parenchyma. 

Nature and source of malarial pigment. In colour, 
in structure, and in chemical reaction this pigment 
corresponds exactly with the pigment already described 
as forming so prominent a feature in the malaria para- 
sites themselves. Like this, it is insoluble even in 
strong acids ; it is altered by potash, and is entirely 
and rapidly dissolved by ammonium sulphide. In 
recent infections it occurs as minute dust-like grains ; 
in infections of some standing as coarser particles, or 
as agglomerations of these into irregular, mammillated 
lumps. So far as the circulation is concerned, such a 
pigment is found in no other disease whatever. As 
an extravascular pathological product a similar pig- 
ment is found in certain melanotic tumours ; but only 
in the cells of the tumour, never in the blood-vessels. 
Pigments of several kinds are found in old blood- 
clots ; but such pigments are manifestly different from 
that of malaria, and yield very different chemical re- 
actions. Intravascular black pigment, therefore, is 
absolutely pathognomonic of malaria. * Because of 

* The pigment-like dot occurring in a large proportion of the 
lymphocytes in normal blood (see p. 38) must not be confounded 
with malarial pigment. 



iv] PIGMENTATION 85 

its physical characters, and of the circumstances in 
which it occurs, hsemozoin may with confidence be 
regarded as the specific product of the malaria 
parasite itself. 

Source of the pigment in the pigmented leucocyte. 
If further evidence be required of the identity of 
the intraparasitic pigment and that found in the 
tissues, it will be supplied by a study of the fate of 
the pigment grains and clumps set free in the blood 
on the breaking-up of the segmented parasite. 

If malarial blood, drawn during the rigor and 
early stages of acute attacks, and even at other 
times, be examined, large mononuclear leucocytes 
carrying grains or even blocks of black pigment may 
be encountered. If the observer be fortunate and 
persevering he will sometimes actually see whence 
this pigment is derived; he may even detect the leu- 
cocytes in the act of taking it up. He may see the 
pigment set free in the liquor sanguinis by the fall- 
ing to pieces of a segmenting parasite ; and he may 
then see a phagocyte creep across the field of the 
microscope and slowly engulf the little block. This 
undoubtedly is a principal source of the pigment in 
the leucocytes. Other, though possibly less import- 
ant, sources are the effete gametes and, especially 
in the large cells of the spleen, necrosed parasite- 
containing red blood-corpuscles. 

Phagocytosis in the spleen. The evidence of phago- 
cytosis in the spleen in malaria is very remarkable. 
Not only are large and small masses of hsernozoin 
included in the macrophages, in the smaller cells, 
and in the endothelium, but entire blood- corpuscles, 
sometimes as many as eight or nine, mostly containing 
parasites, besides free parasites, free hsemozoin, and 
fragmented haemoglobin, are frequently to be seen 
in one and the same phagocyte. Sometimes one 
haemozoin-laden phagocyte may be seen included in 
another phagocyte, and these perhaps in a third. 

Blood of the splenic vein and liver. Of all the 
vessels of the body the splenic vein is that in which 
malarial pigment is most abundant. Whereas in other 
vessels it is found to be included in ordinary leucocytes, 



86 MALAKIA [CHAP. 

in this vessel it is included, not only in the leucocytes, 
but also in certain large white cells identical with 
those occurring in the spleen, and, doubtless, of splenic 
origin also. Similar cells may be found in the 
capillaries of the liver, rarely, however, in the blood 
beyond this organ ; that is to say, they are filtered 
out by the liver from the blood carried to it by the 
splenic vein. An additional reason for the abundance 
of hsemozoin in the splenic vein is, that not only is 
the spleen the physiological destination of many of the 
hsernozoin-laden leucocytes and effete parasite-infested 
corpuscles, but it is likewise a favourite nursery for 
the parasite. In fact, the parasite is present in this 
organ in greater profusion than elsewhere. Hence 
it is that the splenic vein, coming direct from a 
rich breeding- and dumping-ground, contains a large 
number of hsemozoin-laden leucocytes. 

Extravascular pigment. In the early stages of 
malarial disease, except in the case of the spleen and 
the bone marrow, pigment is entirely confined to the 
lumen of the vessels and to their eiidothelium. But if 
we examine tissues from a case which has died at a 
late period of the disease, the pigment may then be 
found, not only in the endothelium, but also in the 
walls of the vessels, and even in the perivascular 
lymph spaces, whence, it may be inferred, it is 
subsequently carried to the lymphatic glands to be 
finally dealt with and broken up. As encouraging 
this view about the ultimate fate of the malaria 
pigment, Kelsch has pointed out the significant fact 
that the lymphatic glands in the hilum of the liver 
are always markedly pigmented in old-standing 
malarial s ; a fact evidently referable to the disposal 
of the large quantities of haamozoin which, as we have 
seen, the liver filters out, more especially from the 
splenic portion of the portal stream. 

These facts explain malarial pigmentation and 
oligocythcemia. The facts just mentioned explain 
the origin and nature of malarial pigmentation, 
and also, in part at least, the oligocythsemia of the 
malarial state, which, as pointed out, is only partially 
accounted for by the destruction of corpuscles by the 



iv] THE YELLOW PIGMENT 87 

parasite in the general circulation as represented 
by finger blood. They show that what is seen in 
finger blood does not represent anything like the 
aggregate mortality that is going on among the 
corpuscles from direct destruction. The principal 
part of the malarial drama is played out in the 
spleen, liver, bone marrow, brain, etc., and not in 
the general circulation. What is seen in finger blood 
is but an overflow, as it were, of the greater drama 
going forward in the viscera. 

The yellow pigment. Besides the pathognomonic 
black pigment (hsemozoin), there is usually found in 
the organs a greater or less amount of a yellow or 
brown pigment (hsemosiderin), the " pigment ochre " 
of Kelsch and Kiener. This pigment is found not 
only in the capillaries, but also, and in greatest 
abundance, in the parenchyma cells of the liver, 
spleen, pancreas, kidneys, as well as in the bone 
marrow and in the connective tissues. It is not 
characteristic of malaria, but occurs in all morbid 
processes in which there is extensive breaking-up of 
erythrocytes, as in paroxysmal haemoglobinuria ; in 
pernicious anaemia, in extensive burns, in poisoning 
by pyrogallic acid, potassium chlorate, arseniate of 
hydrogen, and many other toxic agents. It has 
peculiar chemical properties, being equally insoluble 
in acids, in alkalis, and in alcohol. At first, when 
freshly deposited, it gives no evidence, under the 
usual micro-chemical tests, of containing iron ; after 
it has been in the tissues for some time it appears 
to be altered in character in this respect, and it then 
gives a ferrous reaction with ammonium sulphide, and 
with the double cyanide of iron and potassium. 

Polycholiaand hcemoglobincKmia. Under ordinary 
conditions of physiological waste the products of 
the effete blood- corpuscles are converted into bile 
pigment, and so got rid of. Up to a certain degree 
of pathological hsemoglobinsemia the liver can deal 
in a similar way with free haemoglobin ; so it comes 
about that, when this substance is free in the blood 
in unusual abundance the secretion and flow of 
bile become correspondingly increased. If this flow 



88 MALAKIA [CHAP. 

of bile be excessive it gives rise to what are called 
" bilious symptoms " bilious vomiting, bilious diar- 
rhoea symptoms which are so common in malarial 
disease, particularly in that variety known as "bilious 
remittent." Thus, polycholia is a constant and often 
urgent feature in most malarial fevers, and is good 
evidence that in malarial infections there is a sur- 
charge of the blood with free haemoglobin. It is not 
improbable, although this point is disputed, that the 
yellowness of the skin and sclerse observed in these 
fevers is due to tinting by free haemoglobin, to a 
haemoglobinaemia in fact, and not, as is popularly be- 
lieved, to biliousness or cholaemia from bile absorption. 

The ydlow pigment is deposited in excessive hcemo- 
globincemia. As in those other conditions referred to 
as being attended by rapid haemolysis, in severe 
malarial fevers in which there is great and sudden 
liberation of haemoglobin which the liver cannot at 
once deal with, pending its transformation into bile 
pigment the liberated haemoglobin is taken up by 
the protoplasm of the cells of the different tissues 
and organs of the body, and precipitated in them in a 
slightly altered form ; it is stored up, in fact, waiting 
to be worked off as bile pigment by the, for the time 
being, overtaxed liver. The yellow pigment is, in 
all probability, this precipitated haemoglobin. 

Great excess of hcemoglobincemia results in hcemo- 
globinuria. Should the liberation of haemoglobin go 
beyond this, be too great and too suddenly effected 
fov the excretory powers of the liver and the storage 
capacity of the tissues, then the haemoglobin, little 
altered in composition, seeks a more speedy way of 
escape by the kidneys, and haemoglobinuria is pro- 
duced. This is what is found in ordinary paroxysmal 
haemoglobinuria, and in toxic haemoglobinuria ; and 
in this way we may account for the peculiar features 
of the disease to be described later on haemo- 
globinuric fever. 

Size and sJiape of the blood-corpuscles. On the 
whole, in malaria, as in most anaemic conditions, the 
corpuscles are larger than normal particularly those 
attacked by the parasite, especially the tertian para- 



IV] THE LEUCOCYTES 89 

site. Occasionally we come across genuine megalo- 
cytes, and, not infrequently^ certain very minute, 
darkly- coloured spherical corpuscles, which may be 
nucleated and of embryonic type. Erythrocytes with 
basophilic stippling are not uncommon. Some path- 
ologists regard these basophilic granules as evidence 
of degeneration of the erythrocytes ; P. Schmidt, 
however, considers them as evidences of regenera- 
tion, since they are most numerous during recovery. 
There may be marked irregularity of outline in 
many of the corpuscles, and an indisposition to form 
rouleaux. 

The leucocytes in malaria. The leucocytes, espe- 
cially the large mononuclear, play a very important 
part in malaria. In mild attacks their numbers, 
as observed in peripheral blood, decrease somewhat, 
both relatively to the red corpuscles and absolutely. 
In benign tertians and quartans their maximum is 
attained, according to Billings, two or three hours 
after the onset of chill. From this time there 
is a progressive diminution until the minimum 
is reached at the end of the paroxysm and when 
temperature has become subnormal. After this the 
number rises somewhat, and during the interval 
occupies" a position midway between the maximum 
and minimum. The large mononuclear elements 
are increased, both absolutely and relatively. Some- 
times the mononuclear are as numerous as the 
polynuclear leucocytes, especially during apyrexia. 
A mononuclear leucocytosis of 15 per cent, and up- 
wards, Christophers and Stephens regard as strong 
evidence of a malarial infection. With regard to the 
leucocytes in that type of fever which is caused by 
the crescent-forming small parasites, it is impossible, 
Billings says, to arrive at so definite a conclusion as 
in the cases of benign tertian. In the former type 
of case there appears to be a slight diminution in 
the number of leucocytes towards the end of the 
attacks, a diminution which is made good during the 
interval. Curiously enough, in certain severe per- 
nicious attacks there is a decided increase of the 
leucocytes in the peripheral blood sometimes an 



90 MALARIA 

enormous increase, a positive leucocytosis, the normal 
8,000 per c.mm. rising to 10,000, or even to 30,000 
the proportion to red corpuscles rising from the normal 
1 in 500 or 600 to 1 in 300, or even to 1 in 70. 

The cause of fever and of periodicity in 
malaria. The cause of fever in malaria is some 
toxin or toxins liberated when the segmented para- 
sites break up in the blood. Rosenau and others, 
by injecting filtered blood-serum procured during the 
cold stage of an ague, have succeeded in demon- 
strating the presence in the blood of such a substance. 

The cause of the periodicity is doubtless of a two- 
fold character, the first and most important being 
the more or less fixed life-span of the parasites, and 
the second some physiological property in the human 
body which tends to destroy the parasites. Like so 
many physiological phenomena, this malaria-destroy- 
ing principle or force has a tendency to quotidian 
increase and decrease. Although sometimes almost 
powerless to cope with the parasites, it usually brings 
about, especially after repeated infections, a more or 
less complete immunity. 

It might be urged that though such an explana- 
tion may be applicable to quotidian periodicity, it 
could not apply to tertian or quartan periodicity. 
This cannot be admitted. If there be a regular 
quotidian occurrence of susceptibility to the malaria 
germ, this susceptibility must be existent on the 
second and third day as well as on the first \ there- 
fore a tertian parasite, on maturing, will encounter it 
on the second day, and a quartan on the third, just 
as certainly as if they were daily-maturing parasites. 

This hypothesis may be a wrong one. But it 
will not be without its use if it impress the import- 
ance of placing malarial patients under tonic influences 
as an aid to specific treatment; and of protecting 
the subjects of malarial recurrences from debilitating 
influences. For, just as tonic influences may suffice 
to cure a fever, so, in many malarials, depressing in- 
fluences are sufficient to provoke relapse : presumably 
by weakening the physiological element which holds 
the infection in check. 



CHAPTER V 
MALARIA : MALARIAL CACHEXIA, ETC. 

MALARIAL cachexia is the term applied to a group 
of conditions, more or less chronic, believed to be 
the result of an antecedent attack of severe malarial 
fever, or of a succession of such attacks, or of pro- 
longed exposure to malarial influences. 

Undoubtedly many of the more or less chronic 
morbid conditions which were formerly attributed 
*to the malaria parasites are the outcome of infec- 
tions by trypanosomes, by the Leishman body, by 
spirochsetes, or by some as yet unidentified protozoal 
organisms. 

Symptoms. The leading symptoms are those of 
a special kind of anaemia, characterized objectively by 
a peculiar earthy sallowness of skin, somewhat yellow 
sclerotics, enlargement of the spleen and in the early 
stages at all events of the liver. Usually the subject 
of this cachexia is liable to frequent attacks of an 
irregular type of fever, particularly after exposure, 
or fatigue, or, in fact, after any unusual physiological 
strain. 

Malarial cachexia without fever. It should be 
mentioned that fever is not a necessary antecedent 
or accompaniment of malarial cachexia. In highly 
malarious countries it is not unusual to see typical 
examples in which fever had never been a feature, or, 
at all events, had been of so mild a character as 
not to have seriously attracted attention, or had 
occurred in childhood and been forgotten. 

Enlarged spleen. In such countries a large pro- 
portion of the population have enormously enlarged 
spleens. The traveller cannot fail to be struck by 
the number of people he sees with big bellies and 
spindle shanks ; by their languid and depressed air ; 
91 



02 MALAKlA 

their sallow, dry, rough, unhealthy-looking skins. In 
many malarial cachectics the skin pigmentation is 
remarkably dark ; patches of almost black pigmenta- 
tion are also sometimes discoverable on the tongue 
and palate.* It is said that in some intensely malarial 
places children are occasionally born with enlarged 
spleens, as if the malarial poison had already affected 
them in utero. I cannot personally vouch for this, 
but I have often seen very young children with 
bellies enormously protuberant from distended spleen. 
According to Scheube, De Freytag and Van der Elst 
observed in 1873 and 1878 in Atchin that all the 
children born were affected at the time of birth with 
malarial cachexia, and that most of them died in a 
few months. Bein and Kohlstock found malaria 
parasites in the blood of the four-months-old child of 
a malarial mother, born some time after the arrival* 
of the latter in a non-malarial district. Bignami 
failed to h'nd malarial parasites, malarial pigmen- 
tation, or other sign of paludism in the fo3tus of a 
woman who died of a pernicious malarial attack an 
observation which has been repeated and confirmed 
by other pathologists. Although unusual, more re- 
cent observations have shown that infection of the 
fostus in utero through the maternal circulation does 
occasionally occur, presumably through rupture of 
the placental attachments. 

Clark's observations on placental blood films in 
subtertian malaria suggest that the malaria parasite 
does not enter the foetal circulation unless through 
an accidental rupture of placental vessels during 
pregnancy. Films made from the maternal face of 
the placenta showed parasites in 19 cases, whereas 
films made from blood from the umbilical cord of 
the same cases showed parasites in one instance 
only, and in this case there was a history of acci- 
dent during the pregnancy. Clark found that the 
maternal placental blood was much richer in para- 
sites than finger blood from the same cases, and in a 
considerable proportion of instances (11 in his 19 

* Observations in India tend to show that this condition, 
melanoglossia, is racial and not pathological. 



v] SYMPTOMS OF CACHEXIA 93 

cases) showed infection in which examination of 
finger blood proved negative. 

Delayed development. In some instances of 
malarial cachexia of early development the general 
growth of the body is stunted and puberty retarded. 
I have seen a malarial cachectic who, although 
25 or 26 years of age, had the stature and sexual 
development of a child of 11 or 12. Abortion and 
sterility are common effects of malarial cachexia, 
which, in this as well as in other and more direct- 
ways, becomes a potent agent in the repression of 
population. 

Acquired tolerance of the malarial toxin. In 
many instances, although the state of cachexia may 
have attained an excessive degree, ague, or, in fact, 
fever of any kind, has never been a prominent 
symptom. It would seem that the body can become 
accustomed to the fever-producing toxin of the 
malarial parasite, much in the same way that it 
may become accustomed to opium and many other 
organic poisons. I have watched for three weeks 
the rhythmical development of a tertian parasite 
in a sailor who, although previously the subject 
of frequent attacks of ague, was yet quite free 
from fever during the period that I had him under 
close observation. Just as in those habituated to 
the use of opium a full dose of the drug, which in 
the unhabituated would produce profound or even 
fatal narcosis, acts merely as a gentle stimulant, 
so in those constantly exposed to, and actually 
infected with, malaria from infancy, the poison 
sometimes fails to act as a febrogene. And, to 
continue the comparison, just as the habitual use 
of opium produces a species of chronic poisoning or 
cachexia without narcosis, so the habitual presence 
of the malaria toxin may produce its peculiar 
cachexia without giving rise to fever. As a rule, 
however, particularly in the case of Europeans 
forced to reside in highly malarious countries, 
attacks of fever are of frequent occurrence in mala- 
rial cachectics. 

Malarial neuroses and skin affections. Super- 



94 MALAKIA [CHAP. 

added to the febrile attacks, and to the associated 
anaemia, we may meet in cachectics with a variety 
of functional troubles. One characteristic of most 
of these functional troubles is the periodicity they 
generally observe. Thus we may have quotidian, 
tertian, or quartan neuralgias, gastralgias, vomiting, 
diarrhoea, headaches, attacks of palpitation, of sneez- 
ing, and so forth. Besides these, skin eruptions 
such as herpes, erythema nodosum, patches of lichen 
planus, eczema, urticaria, possibly synovitis exhibit- 
ing a periodic liability to exacerbations and an amen- 
ability to quinine, have been noted in malarial 
conditions. 

Peripheral neuritis. I frequently see cases of 
well-marked peripheral neuritis, especially in patients 
from the West Coast of Africa, whose symptoms have 
been attributed to malaria. The degree of paresis 
varies from total inability to stand to weakness 
merely. There can be no question about the ante- 
cedent malaria, but whether the neuritis in every 
instance be the direct result of this infection it is 
hard to say. I have seen a well-marked multiple 
peripheral neuritis, in which there was slight fever 
with abundant subtertian parasites, promptly sub- 
side on the administration of quinine. In this case 
the neuritis began with violent cramps in the legs. 
Loss of memory, partial or complete, appears to be a 
common accompaniment of this condition. 

Helvetic eruptions are very common in malarial 
attacks. According to Powell, in Assam the appear- 
ance of a patch of herpes somewhere about the body, 
usually the lips, is regarded as an infallible sign that 
the attack of fever is over for the time being. 

Haemorrhages. In high degrees of cacbexia, 
haemorrhages of various kinds are apt to occur ; in 
such conditions epistaxis, haemoptysis, haematemesis, 
melaena, retinal hemorrhages, purpura, occasionally 
haematuria or haemoglobinuria are not infrequent. 
In such patients trifling operations -tooth extraction, 
for example may prove a dangerous matter. I 
have seen in malarial cachectics haemorrhages from 
the latter cause which were very difficult to control. 



v] PATHOLOGY OF CACHEXIA 95 

Care must therefore be exercised in advising and in 
performing even the slightest operations on patients 
of this class. 

Intestinal and pulmonary affections. In addition 
to the troubles mentioned, we find that the subjects 
of malarial cachexia are apt to be dyspeptic ; to suffer 
from irregularities in the action of the bowels ; to 
suffer from morning diarrhoea, at first of dark bilious, 
and later, perhaps, of pale, copious, and frothy stools. 
They are also very liable to a low and highly fatal 
form of pneumonia. 

Cacheoda associated with functional and with 
organic lesions. There may be said to be two degrees 
or kinds of malarial cachexia. In one there is merely 
anaemia with congestion of the portal system ; this 
may be quickly recovered from on the patient being 
removed from endemic malarial influences and sub- 
jected to specific and proper treatment. In the other 
there is, in addition to anaemia, organic disease of the 
abdominal viscera of the liver, spleen, and kidneys 
the outcome of long-standing congestion of these 
organs. These tissue changes not only keep up the 
anaemia, in spite of removal from malarial influences, 
but, in the long run, inevitably progress to a fatal 
issue. 

Pathology and pathological anatomy* 
The pathology of malarial cachexia is virtually, in 
the first instance, that of acute malarial disease. 
There is blood destruction by the direct action of the 
malaria parasite and of its toxins, eventuating in 
oligocythsemia and in the deposit of haemozoin 
and of haemosiderin (yellow pigment) in the tissues. 
The activity and persistence of the process lead to 
congestion which ultimately determines organic 
changes in liver, spleen, kidneys, and probably in the 
bone marrow. 

Splenic enlargement. The spleen may become so 
enlarged under repeated attacks of the congestion 
attending a succession of fever fits, or in consequence 
of a less active and perhaps feverless haemolysis, that 
it may come to weigh many pounds, and so to increase 
in bulk as to occupy nearly the entire abdomen. The 



96 MALARIA [CHAP. 

capsule of the gland, particularly on its convex sur- 
face, is thickened, and, perhaps, the seat of fibrous 
patches, or even of adhesions to neighbouring organs. 
Many of the trabeculse forming the framework of the 
gland become greatly hypertrophied. On section, the 
tissues of such a spleen are found to be moderately 
firm, and usually of a reddish-brown colour ; but 
when death happens soon after or during a febrile 
attack, the section of the gland shows a dark surface 
from deposit of hsemozoin, the pulp at the same 
time being softened. Perhaps from over-distension 
some of the vessels in the interior of the gland give 
way, and then there is a breaking-down of the spleen 
pulp in patches, the remains of splenic tissue floating 
about in the extravasated blood. Microscopical in- 
spection of these hypertrophied spleens, especially 
during fever, shows the black and ochre pigments in 
the situations already indicated. 

" Splenic index" There are practical points in 
connection with malarial spleen which deserve men- 
tion. The relative absence, or prevalence, of these 
enlarged spleens or " ague cakes " in the native popula- 
tion is an excellent rough indication of the salubrity 
or the reverse, as regards malaria, of any particular 
district. Wherever they are common the district 
is malarious, and therefore unhealthy, perhaps to 
Europeans deadly, and should be looked upon as 
extremely unfavourable for either camping or resi- 
dential purposes. 

Liability to rupture of splenic tumours. Another 
practical point is that these enlarged spleens are easily 
ruptured by a blow on the belly. In hot and ma- 
larious countries many a coolie goes about doing his 
work although he has an enormous spleen. This is 
a fact to be remembered in administering even mild 
corporal punishment to natives of malarious countries. 
Europeans have more than once been tried for man- 
slaughter in consequence of neglecting it. Owing to 
this liability to rupture, the subjects of splenic en- 
largement must not be allowed to play at violent 
games, as football or even cricket, or at any game 
in which the diseased organ is exposed to a blow, 



v] PATHOLOGY OF CACHEXIA 97 

Apart from direct violence, an enlarged spleen may 
rupture spontaneously, owing to sudden accession in 
size in the course of a fever fit. 

Splenic ruptures are, of course, generally fatal. 
It sometimes happens that the presence of adhe- 
sions limits and restrains the haemorrhage. Localized 
haemorrhages of this description may, in time, lead 
to splenic abscess. 

Hepatic enlargement. Like the spleen, the liver 
in malarial cachectics becomes enlarged during ac- 
cessions of fever. Under the influence of a succession 
of acute attacks, hepatic congestion may gradually 
acquire a more or less permanent character. After 
death from such fevers the capsule of the liver is 
found to be tense; on section the highly vascular 
tissue of the organ is seen to be reddish-brown or 
almost black, according to the degree and kind of 
pigmentation. If this stage of congestion be long 
maintained, it tends to bring about various kinds and 
degrees of chronic hepatitis with hypertrophy of the 
intralobular connective tissue, and in time leads to 
hypertrophic or to different forms of atrophic cirrhosis. 
Thus irremediable organic disease of the liver, portal 
obstruction, and ascites may ensue. 

Siderosis. It is in livers of this description that 
a form of what is called siderosis is produced a con- 
dition resulting from chemical changes undergone by 
the yellow pigment with which the various cells of the 
organ are charged. It has already been stated that, 
when first deposited, this pigment gives no ferrous 
reaction with ammonium sulphide, or with the double 
cyanide of iron and potassium ; and that, as the deposit 
becomes older, chemical changes ensue, resulting in 
the elaboration of a form of iron which will then 
yield the characteristic black colour with the former, 
and blue colour with the latter reagent. Treated 
with ammonium sulphide, sections of liver, and also 
of spleen, kidney, and other hsemosiderin-charged 
tissues, from chronic malarials, may turn almost black 
to the naked eye, or, at all events, exhibit under 
the microscope abundance of blackened pigment. 
In such sections it is seen that the hsemosiderin is 



98 MALARIA [CHAP. 

no longer in minute grains, as when first deposited, 
but in blocks and globules as large as, or even larger 
than, blood -corpuscles. This pigment is, of course, 
something quite apart from the parasite-derived 
haemozoin deposited in the same organs. 

Practical considerations. Certain clinical facts 
about malarial hepatic congestion and malarial hepa- 
titis are of importance. In the first place, such 
conditions do not tend to terminate in suppuration ; 
in the second, they are almost invariably associated 
with splenic enlargement. These are important 
facts to recollect when it becomes a question of the 
diagnosis of malarial hepatitis from abscess of the 
liver. Another important fact to remember is that 
recent malarial enlargement of the liver is usually 
curable, depending, as a rule, on simple congestion ; 
whereas old-standing malarial hepatic enlargement is 
usually incurable, depending, as it usually does, on 
hypertrophy of the connective tissue and a cirrhotic 
condition of the organ. 

Malaria a cause of nephritis. Changes similar to 
those found in the liver in the course of, and in 
consequence of, malarial disease occur in the kidney ; 
in time they result in confirmed Bright's disease. 
Hence, probably, the frequency of Bright's disease 
in some highly malarious climates. In the British 
Guiana Medical Annual, Daniels mentions that 
in 926 post-mortem examinations in the hospital at 
Georgetown, Demerara, a highly malarial district, he 
found evidence of disease of the kidneys in no fewer 
than 228. 

Cardiac degeneration. As a consequence of de- 
fective nutrition from prolonged anaemia and recur- 
ring fever, the muscular tissue of the heart in chronic 
malarials may degenerate, the ventricles dilate, and, 
in time, the lower extremities become oedematous. 
For the same reason the subjects of valvular affec- 
tions of the heart, whether compensated or otherwise, 
must be regarded as unsuitable for residence in 
malarial countries. 

Other sequelce. These include dysenteric condi- 
tions, forms of diarrhoea, low forms of pneumonia 



v] PATHOLOGY OF CACHEXIA 99 

readily set up by chill and prone to terminate in 
abscess of the lung or to become associated with 
empyema, extensive sloughing phagedsena, and other 
forms of gangrene such as noma ; or pernicious 
fever may supervene at any time and rapidly carry oft' 
the subject of advanced malarial cachexia. 

Tubercular and syphilitic disease not infrequently 
concur with malaria ; in fact, the latter may power- 
fully predispose to local manifestations of either of 
the two former, and vice versa a complication as 
to which the practitioner should always be on his 
guard. 



CHAPTER VI 
MALARIA: ETIOLOGY 

IN considering the etiology of malaria two things 
must be carefully distinguished : (1) the circumstances 
leading to the invasion of the human body by the 
malaria parasite ; (2) the circumstances determining 
the clinical manifestation of such invasion. 

CIRCUMSTANCES FAVOURING INFECTION 

In the mosquito-malaria theory, now thoroughly 
established, we have the key to this problem. What- 
ever favours the presence and increase of the malaria- 
bearing species of mosquito tends to the increase of 
malaria, and vice versa ; whatever favours the access 
of these insects, and the parasites which have passed 
into them, to the human body favours the acquisition 
of malaria. 

It must not be forgotten that the malaria parasite, 
after giving rise to fever within a few days of its 
original invasion of the human body, tends to pass 
into a latent condition from which it wakes up into 
clinical activity again only after longer or shorter 
intervals; further, that in rare instances the clinical 
evidence of a successful malarial invasion may be de- 
layed for months or, perhaps, for years. Consequently, 
the particular circumstances in which any given mal- 
arial attack declares itself are not necessarily those 
which led to the acquisition of the infection originally. 
Therefore, in regard to the etiology of malaria, fevers 
of first invasion have a significance very different 
from that pertaining to relapses or recurrences. 

Geographical range. The geographical range 
of malaria is very great ; it extends in the northern 
hemisphere from the Arctic Circle to the Equator, and 
in the southern probably as widely. Malaria is not 
uniformly distributed throughout this vast area. It 
100 



ETIOLOGY 101 

occurs in limited endemic foci which tend, speaking 
generally, to be more numerous and larger as the 
Equator is approached. 

Influence of latitude and season. In 

colder latitudes the association of malaria with swamps 
is marked; in warmer latitudes this association is 
much less apparent. In colder latitudes the type 
of disease is milder; in warmer latitudes it is apt 
to be more severe. In certain warm countries, 
as the Argentine and many of the islands of 
the South Pacific, malaria is entirely absent, or 
mild and rare. In colder latitudes it is active only 
during the summer or early autumn ; in warmer 
latitudes it is perennial, certain seasons usually, 
though not invariably, the warmer, or after the rains 
being the more malarial. 

Influence of local conditions. The strip of 
flat, waterlogged country lying along the foot of moun- 
tain ranges, the deltas of large rivers, the pool-dotted 
beds of dried-up streams, areas of country which have 
fallen out of cultivation, recently deforested lands, are, 
in many instances, notoriously malarial. Well-drained 
uplands and carefully cultivated districts, as a rule, 
are healthy. There are, nevertheless, instances of 
elevated, arid, and sandy plains which, under certain 
hydraulic conditions, are intensely malarial. Towns 
are much less malarial than villages or the open 
country. 

Ship malaria. Although several instances are 
on record of outbreaks of what was reputed to be 
malaria on shipboard on the open sea, many epidemi- 
ologists refuse to accept the diagnosis as to the nature 
of these outbreaks, and maintain that malaria is never 
contracted away from the land. Mosquitoes haunt 
ships for some time after the latter leave port. If 
they are infected with the malaria parasite when 
they first enter the ship, or if they ingest the parasite 
after coming on board, they may very well communi- 
cate malaria. 

Endemic and epidemic fluctuations. 
From time to time malaria extends beyond its endemic 
foci, spreading in epidemic form over large tracts of 



102 MALARIA [CHAP. 

what is usually healthy country. There are a few 
well-authenticated instances of countries (Mauritius, 
Reunion) which, although previously exempt, subse- 
quently became endemically malarial ; and there are 
many instances of countries previously malarial which 
afterwards, especially under the influence of cultiva- 
tion and drainage, became salubrious. 

These circumstances evidently have reference to 
the distribution of species of malarial mosquitoes. 
Like other insects, mosquitoes occasionally, under 
specially favourable conditions, increase enormously 
in numbers and spread out in every direction. New 
species, which may belong to the malaria-bearing 
kinds, may be introduced into places where they 
formerly did not exist, just as Culex fatigans has 
been introduced into Australia. I believe a mosquito 
capable of subserving the malaria parasite was intro- 
duced in this way in the early 'sixties into Mauritius, 
an island whose fauna and flora had been hitherto 
very peculiar and special. In this way we can 
account for the outbreak of the great epidemic of 
malaria that swept over that formerly healthy island, 
and also for its present endemic insalubrity. A 
similar misfortune may very well happen to the non- 
malarious South Pacific islands in the near future. 

The exemption of certain islands from malaria, 
even though in the midst of an archipelago of 
malaria-haunted islands, is a very remarkable circum- 
stance. Barbados is an instance in point. Low has 
confirmed the popular belief that malaria is unknown 
there as an indigenous disease, and points to the 
absence of Anophelinse as the explanation. But 
how explain the absence of Anophelinae, seeing that 
Culex abounds and all the conditions favouring 
mosquito life are present? The disappearance of 
malaria from Britain is another remarkable, and 
perhaps not fully explained, fact. Anophelina? still 
abound in many places, yet the endemic malaria 
has vanished. It may be that the general use of 
quinine and the improved domestic hygiene have to 
be credited with this. Still more remarkable is the 
circumstance that there are villages and districts in 



vi] ETIOLOGY 103 

India, as pointed out by Christophers and Stephens, and 
similar districts in Italy, as pointed out by Celli, in 
which, though surrounded by highly malarious country 
and though Anophelinae abound, there is no malaria. 
The explanation of this anomaly is not apparent. 
Perhaps in these places there is some local substance 
on which the mosquitoes feed that is fatal to the 
parasite. Sambon ingeniously suggests that there may 
be special local conditions that favour hyperparasitism, 
that is, the attack and destruction of the malaria 
parasite by some other kind of parasite. Similar 
occurrences are common enough in nature. In sup- 
port of this view he cites Ross's observation of what 
he designated "black spores" (Fig. 22), bodies which 
are now known to be protozoal organisms belonging 
to the genus Nosema. These 
"black spores" prey on the 
malaria oocyst in the wall of 
the mosquito's stomach and des- 
troy it, just as they prey on the 
larvae of Filaria immitis en- 
cysted within the Malpighian 
tubes of the mosquitoes which 
subserve their development. Ross's black spores. 
Whatever the explanation of 
the salubrity of these mosquito- 
haunted plains be, it is well worth searching for ; it 
may be that it would carry a hint of value in attempt- 
ing the prevention of malaria. 

Atmospheric temperature. One of the most 
important conditions necessary to the sporogonic phase 
of the malaria germ is a sustained average tempera- 
ture of at least 60 F. The malaria parasite will not 
develop in the mosquito at low temperatures. 

Altitude. Altitude per se has, apparently, no in- 
fluence on malaria. It is the decrease in temperature, 
usually implied by an increase in altitude, that is the 
real determining circumstance in bringing about a 
diminution in the prevalence of malaria in uplands. 
In the tropics an elevation of six or seven thousand 
feet may not secure immunity from malaria unless 
there be, at the same time, a corresponding and 




104 MALAKIA [CHAP. 

sufficient lowering of temperature. In Italy there are 
many malarious spots high up among the hills ; the 
same is the case in India and elsewhere in those 
elevated valleys which are also narrow, imperfectly 
ventilated, and imperfectly drained. 

Moisture. Another important condition for the 
production of malaria is the .presence of water. In 
the Sahara there is no malaria unless in the oases ', in 
many of these it is rife in Biskra, for example. A 
large expanse of water is not favourable to malaria. 
The mosquito thrives best in sluggish streams with 
grassy banks and many backwaters ; still better, in 
small pools or other collections of water, as in broken 
bottles, empty tins, etc., where there are no fish to 
prey on their larvae, and where the surface is not 
agitated by winds. One such puddle near a house 
may suffice to render that house unhealthy. 

Decomposing vegetable matter. It is 
customary to add yet another condition as being neces- 
sary to the existence of malaria namely, the presence 
in the soil of a notable amount of decomposing organic 
matter, particularly vegetable matter. But that this 
is not an indispensable condition is proved by the 
fact that there are many almost barren spots in which 
malaria abounds. 

Other conditions necessary. The concur- 
rence of these conditions, high temperature and mois- 
ture, even though associated with abundant vegetation, 
is not sufficient to generate or support malaria ; for 
there are many places in the world the Argentine 
and the islands of the South Pacific, for example in 
which high temperature, moisture, and decaying vege- 
table matter are present but in which malaria is almost 
unknown. Manifestly there are other and more com- 
plicated conditions which are equally indispensable, 
and which must concur with heat and moisture in 
order to secure the presence of malaria-bearing 
mosquitoes. What these conditions are it is as yet 
impossible to say. 

Influence of subsoil moisture. The state of 
the subsoil as regards moisture appears to have con- 
siderable influence on its malaria-producing properties. 



vi] ETIOLOGY 105 

Short of general overflow, the higher the subsoil 
water the greater the chance of a given locality 
supplying breeding-places for mosquitoes and there- 
fore of proving malarious. Hence arises marked 
liability to epidemics of malaria on the subsidence of 
extensive floods ; and hence the danger attending the 
raising of the level of the subsoil water by irrigation 
works, canals, embankments, and other engineering 
works. 

Influence of rainfall. As regards the relation 
of the prevalence of malaria to rainfall there have 
been too many generalizations based on the limited 
experience of one or two districts. Thus, it is often 
said that the most malarious time of the year is 
at the end of the rains, when the soil is beginning 
to dry up. A wider view of the subject shows that, 
though applying to some places, this statement does 
not apply to all. There are localities where the 
fever curve is highest before the setting in of the 
rains. In some places, particularly in those that are 
low-lying, flat, and swampy, fevers of first invasion 
disappear almost entirely when the country becomes 
flooded. This apparent want of a universal and 
definite relationship of fever curve to rainfall indi- 
cates that the conditions determining the prevalence 
of malaria are highly complex, and that they are not 
by any means merely a matter of heat, moisture, and 
vegetation. In some places much rain will scour 
out the mosquito pools ; in other places it will just 
fill them. The key to the explanation of the vary- 
ing relation of malaria to rainfall is to be found 
in the influence of the latter on th6 local mosquito 
pools. 

Influence of winds and atmospheric 
diffusion. It has been said that the wind can carry 
the malaria germ great distances, roll it along the 
ground like thistledown, and even force it to ascend 
high mountains. It is very doubtful, however, if the 
malarial mosquito can be transported, in this way, very 
far from its native pool. The mosquito does not ascend 
more than a few feet from the ground, and in high 
winds, or even in draughts of air, such as that from a 



106 MALAKIA [CHAP. 

punkah, immediately seeks shelter. It is certain that 
some thousand or fifteen hundred yards of water 
between a ship and a malarious coast may suffice to 
secure immunity to the crew. The experience of 
the notorious Walcheren Expedition proves this. A 
similar distance on land from a malaria source is 
probably approximately as effective. The diffusion 
of malaria by winds is generally extremely restricted. 
Inside, a city may be quite healthy, whilst outside the 
walls the country may be pestilential. One village may 
be sickly, whilst a neighbouring village may be healthy. 
Surely, if winds transport the malarial germ for any 
distance from its source, there would not be so great 
a difference in the relative salubrity of urban and 
suburban localities, nor of neighbouring houses and 
villages. Neither does the malaria germ ascend to 
any great height above the ground. Acting on the 
empirical observation of this fact, the peasants in 
many unhealthy spots in Italy and Greece are said to 
secure a remarkable degree of immunity by passing 
the night, during the fever season, on platforms raised 
on poles a few yards above the ground. It seems safe, 
therefore, to conclude that the horizontal and vertical 
diffusion of the malaria germ that is to say, of the 
mosquito is, as a rule, very restricted. 

Influence of trees, houses, and lodging:. 
The intervention of a belt of trees between a malarial 
swamp and a village is said to protect from malaria 
the houses on the leeward side of the trees. The trees 
may filter out the mosquitoes by affording them pro- 
tection from winds. Open windows and doors, by 
giving ready access to mosquitoes, are sources of 
danger in malarial countries ; for this and similar 
reasons sleeping on the ground, on the ground floor, or 
unprotected by a mosquito curtain, is dangerous. 

Time of day in relation to infection. 
Evidently in conformity with the habits of the mosquito, 
the time just before sunrise and just after sunset, and 
the night, have the reputation of being the most 
dangerous as regards liability to contract the infection. 
Although mosquitoes are most active during twilight 
and night, they bite readily enough during the daytime 



vi] ETIOLOGY 107 

in shady and windless places, as in thick jungle or in 
a dark room. A very few species are diurnal in 
habit. 

Disturbance of the soil. It has often been 
observed that in malarious countries, so long as the soil 
remains undisturbed, agues and the severer forms of 
fever are comparatively rare ; but so soon as build- 
ing, road-making, and other operations implying soil 
disturbance commence, then severe malarial fevers 
appear. After a time when, in the progress of events, 
these operations have concluded, and the broken 
surface of the soil has, so to speak, skinned over 
again, the place becomes once more comparatively 
healthy. The medical history of Hong Kong may 
be cited in illustration of this fact. At the com- 
mencement of the occupation of this island by the 
British, for a short time it was healthy enough. 
Then, on its cession being completed, and when 
barracks and houses were being built and roads laid 
out, it became excessively unhealthy, the soldiers 
dying by the hundred of pernicious fevers. In time 
the sickness and mortality gradually decreased ; and 
now, so far as malaria is concerned, the city of 
Victoria is healthy. But, even at the present day, 
wherever in the outskirts, in the course of the con- 
struction of houses, roads, forts, and similar works, 
soil is turned up, fever often of a most pernicious 
type is nearly sure to break out among those 
engaged in the works. I cite the case of Hong Kong ; 
but there are dozens of other instances which might 
be quoted, and which are quite as apposite and 
convincing, as to the danger of carelessly disturb- 
ing the soil in malarious localities, particularly 
during the warm season. Soil disturbance usually 
implies the formation of holes. Holes imply puddles, 
and puddles imply mosquitoes. Workmen from many 
districts, some of them malarious, are assembled in 
crowded lodgings; one infected workman suffices to 
start the epidemic. In the present state of know- 
ledge this seems to be adequate explanation of the 
recognized danger of earth-cutting in malarious dis- 
tricts. 



108 MALARIA [CHAP. 

CIRCUMSTANCES FAVOURING THE CLINICAL 
MANIFESTATION OF MALARIAL INVASION 
As a rule, a successful malarial infection declares 
itself within a week or ten days. As with other infec- 
tions, certain individuals resist the pathogenic in- 
fluences of the malaria parasite for a longer period. A 
very few appear to be permanently immune. Every- 
thing tending to cause physiological depression favours 
susceptibility and acute manifestations. 

Influence of meteorological conditions 
on relapse. A malarial subject while in the mild 
climate of the tropics may keep in fair health ; but 
when, as is so often the case with sailors and others 
returning to Europe, he is plunged into the stormy 
winter of the North, is exposed to cold, and has long 
watches and fatiguing work, very probably latent 
malaria will become active and ague follow. This 
is a common experience with malarials from the 
tropics. It is almost the rule with people coming 
from the West Coast of Africa. Stanley remarks 
that so long as he and his companions were 
ascending the Congo, the wind being with them 
and therefore not much felt, they did not have 
fever ; but that on descending the stream, a strong 
breeze blowing in their faces and chilling them, 
they constantly had attacks. The physiological de- 
pression and disturbances caused by the cold wind 
paralysed the self -protecting power of the body, and 
permitted the hitherto latent parasite to get the 
upper hand. And so it is found, in the highly 
malarial districts of tropical Africa, that houses 
perched on elevated and windy situations are not 
so healthy as those on lower and, therefore, less 
exposed and more sheltered ground. This must 
not be interpreted as showing that wind causes 
or carries malaria. The wind merely acts as a cause 
of physiological strain, of chills ; it acts just in the 
same way as fatigue, hunger, a wetting, disease, fear, 
excesses, or depressing emotions are found to do. 

Sex, age, occupation Sex per se seems to 
have no particular influence as regards liability to or 
severity of malarial attacks. Neither has occupation ; 



vi] STUDY OF THE MOSQUITO 109 

although, of course, those engaged in tilling and 
working the soil are more exposed to mosquito bite, 
and therefore more subject to malaria, than the 
townsman or the sailor. Malarial attacks are more 
severe, more common, and much more dangerous in 
young children than in adults. 

Malaria a commmii cable disease. - 
Malaria is certainly not directly communicable, in the 
same way that such diseases as smallpox or measles 
are. It can be communicated directly only by injection 
of malarial blood. But there can now no longer be 
any doubt that a malarial patient introduced into a 
community, provided suitable mosquitoes are present, 
is a source of danger. If mosquitoes of the proper 
species bite such a patient say in the wards of a 
hospital, in a gaol, a house, or a camp and a week 
later bite someone else, that second individual may 
become infected, and ten days later may be seized 
with malarial fever. 

Study of the mosquito indispensable. 
Full knowledge of all that concerns the etiology of the 
disease will only be attained when we have full know- 
ledge of the various species of mosquito capable of sub- 
serving the germ, of certain vertebrates which may be 
capable of taking the place of man in the malarial 
cycle, of their geographical distribution, of their 
habits, and of their enemies. As yet this knowledge 
is but beginning. When we have said that the 
malaria parasite is subserved by several species of 
Anophelinse and that these species are mainly of noc- 
turnal habit, we have enumerated the principal items 
of existing knowledge on the subject. Whether cer- 
tain species of Culex, Stegomyia and other Culicinae 
are efficient hosts for the parasite, as some of 
them certainly are for Plasmodium danilewskyi 
and Filaria bancrofti, can as yet neither be affirmed 
nor denied. Studies in this field are being actively 
carried on, and important advances may be looked 
for. 

ACCLIMATIZATION AND IMMUNITY 

Personal acclimatization. Is there such a 
thing as acquired immunity as regards malaria ? The 



110 MALARIA [CHAP. 

answer to this is, " Yes and No." As regards the 
European, it would seem that those who have re- 
sided many years in a malarious district are less liable 
than recent arrivals to severe remittents, but more 
liable to mild agues. As already mentioned, the first 
attack of malarial fever is generally remittent and 
severe in character ; subsequent attacks are generally 
frankly intermittent. Old febricitants are more liable 
to pernicious attacks of an adynamic type than the 
recently infected. Trifling causes, such as do not pro- 
voke fever in the fresh arrival, are often sufficient to 
bring on an ague fit in the old resident. The new arrival 
in the tropics does not think much of exposing himself 
to the sun, the rain, and the wind ; but the old resident 
is very chary about going out without his sun-hat and 
white umbrella. The latter wears flannel, and changes 
his clothes after exercise ; he is careful not to cool off 
too rapidly by sitting in a draught ; he will not sit 
down in wet clothes. The new-comer may look on 
these precautions against chill as signs of effeminacy. 
They are not so, however; experience has taught the 
old resident that neglect of them means an attack of 
fever and a week off work. The new-comer takes a 
cold bath ; the old resident takes a warm one. The 
new-comer sits up late, eats and drinks and smokes 
as in Europe ; the old resident goes to bed betimes, 
and eats and drinks and smokes in moderation. By 
and by, sharp lessons teach the new-comer to respect 
the sun and the rain and the wind, to clothe with a 
view to avoiding chill, and to live temperately. This 
is an education all pass through in malarial countries. 
"Acclimatization," to a great extent, though not 
entirely, means experience, education ; not simply an 
unconscious adaptation of the physiology of the indi- 
vidual, but an intelligent adaptation of his habits. 

Racial and individual differences of 
susceptibility. Nevertheless, there can be no 
doubt that, for some occult reason, certain races 
and certain individuals are less susceptible to 
malarial influences than others. A very few in- 
dividuals are absolutely immune and can live in 
intensely malarial places with impunity. It is a 



vi] IMMUNITY 111 

well-established fact that the negro in Africa, 
although he does get fever, does not get it so 
frequently nor so severely as the European ; even 
although the latter, from his hygienic ways of living, 
is of the two much the less exposed to infection. 
The Chinese, the Malays, and some other dark- 
skinned races also appear to enjoy a comparative 
immunity an immunity considerably less pro- 
nounced, however, than that enjoyed by the African 
and West Indian negro. There is some evidence to 
show that even the individual European, if he sur- 
vive the process, may after many years, through 
frequent infection, attain immunity; this, however, 
does not appear to be transmitted. The inhabitants 
of the malarious districts of Italy, Corsica, Greece, 
Turkey, and other South European countries have 
inherited no marked immunity from malaria in 
virtue of the thousands of years during which their 
ancestors lived in malarious districts. But they have 
inherited experience, and many of them know how 
to keep clear of the infection they cannot overcome ; 
this probably is, in great measure, the extent of their 
acclimatization and apparent acquired immunity. 

We are indebted to Koch for an important ob- 
servation, with manifest practical bearings, on this 
subject; an observation which throws light on the 
apparent immunity of negroes, Melanesians, and other 
dark-skinned races living in highly malarious coun- 
tries. He has shown, and his statements have been 
abundantly confirmed, that the natives of such 
districts acquire their immunity from repeated and 
persistent infection in childhood. In such places 
the blood of practically every child up to three or 
four years of age contains malaria parasites. The 
proportion of infected children gradually becomes 
smaller with each additional year, until adolescence 
is approached, when the blood becomes practically 
parasite-free, and immunity is established. Daniels 
had already shown, by a comparative study of the 
prevalence of malarial pigmentation in the cadavers 
of natives of British Guiana, that such was probably 
the case; Koch's more direct observations on the 



112 MALARIA 

parasite in Melanesia, confirmed as they have been by 
English observers in India and Africa, have definitely 
settled the matter. 

The mortality in native children from malaria 
is very great ; but it would appear that a relative 
tolerance is soon acquired, for although the negro 
child may have a rich infection of parasites in its 
blood, possibly in consequence partly of increasing 
immunity, partly of some racial and inherited quality, 
it may exhibit a remarkable tolerance of the malaria 
toxins. It has often been remarked that these dark- 
skinned children, with enormous spleens and a rich 
stock of malaria parasites in the blood, run about 
fever-free, and apparently in rude health. It would 
seem that certain races of men react to the malaria 
parasite much in the same way as the Texan cattle 
react to abesia, or as the large game animals of 
Africa react to Trypanosoma brucei; repeated in- 
fection in early youth, if it does not quickly prove 
fatal, creates immunity. Race may have something 
to do with the tolerance of the infection ; but it is 
not everything, for the negro from a non-malarial 
country on becoming infected in a malarial country 
suffers almost as severely as the European. 



CHAPTER VII 
MALARIA: DIAGNOSIS 

THERE is a marked tendency to regard and diagnose 
all fevers occurring in tropical countries, or in indi- 
viduals who have returned from tropical countries, 
as malarial. Such slovenliness in diagnosis must be 
strenuously avoided by the practitioner. It is apt to 
become a habit which, sooner or later, is bound to 
have disastrous consequences. 

At the same time the opposite error of overlooking 
malarial infection must be equally guarded against. 
In many tropical and sub- tropical localities prac- 
tically every European is, or may be, the subject of 
active or latent malaria. The tropical practitioner 
therefore should approach the diagnosis of all his 
cases, no matter what, with the idea ever present to 
his mind that they may be malarial or complicated 
with malaria. 

The three pathoguomonic signs oi 
malaria. These are periodicity ; the effect of quin- 
ine ; the presence of the malaria parasite. 

The diagnosis of malarial disease, if all the 
means at our disposal be employed, is usually not a 
difficult matter. Formerly, periodicity and the effect 
of quinine were the tests principally relied on. In 
certain circumstances they are fallible. Nowadays, 
in all doubtful and serious cases, it behoves the 
practitioner to have recourse to the least fallible 
test the microscopical examination of the blood. 
When such an examination yields a positive 
result, when the parasite in any of its forms, 
or its characteristic product hsemozoin either free 
in the liquor sanguinis or enclosed in leucocytes, 
is found, the diagnosis of malaria is securely 
established. Negative results from a single micro- 
scopical examination are not so trustworthy as 
113 



114 MALAKIA [CHAP. 

positive ; but if the practitioner has experience, and 
if he has the opportunity to make his examinations at 
suitable times and in a case untreated by quinine, 
they, too, are conclusive, more especially if supple- 
mented by a differential count of the leucocytes. 

The quinine test is generally conclusive in inter- 
mittents and in the various larval forms of malaria, 
but the more severe types of remittents are often 
singularly resistant to the drug. Moreover, time may 
not be available in which to test such cases with 
quinine. They may be cases of a threatening nature 
in which a speedy diagnosis is of the first importance. 
In such cases the microscope is the only available 
trustworthy diagnostic agent. 

Periodicity in diagnosis. Periodicity at 
times is a trustworthy enough clinical test for 
malarial disease. Tertian and quartan periodicity 
occur only in malarial disease; when either is 
thoroughly established, its presence is almost 
conclusive as to the case being malarial. It is 
otherwise as regards the significance of quotidian 
periodicity. Quotidian periodicity we find in greater 
or less degree in nearly all fevers, particularly in 
fevers associated with suppuration. In hectic con- 
ditions quite unconnected with malaria one often 
sees a quotidian afternoon rigor, followed by hot, 
dry skin, and a temperature rising even to 103 or 
104 F., the febrile movement concluding with a 
profuse diaphoresis and complete morning apyrexia. 
Such cases are apt to be misdiagnosed and treated as 
malarial. 

Periodicity of fever in liver abscess; diagnosis 
from malaria. Particularly is this the case in 
suppuration connected with the liver a condition 
peculiarly liable to occur in tropical practice. Simu- 
lation of malarial fever by hepatic abscess is very 
common ; it is a pitfall into which the inexperienced 
tropical practitioner often tumbles. In consequence, 
we find that, at one time or another, most liver 
abscess cases are drenched with quinine, on the 
supposition that the associated fever is malarial. 
There are several points, even apart from an exam- 



vn] DIAGNOSIS 115 

ination of the blood, which, if duly considered, will 
avert this blunder. 

In hepatic abscess, although the liver is enlarged, 
the spleen is not necessarily so ; splenic enlargement, 
though an occasional, is not a usual feature in liver 
abscess. In malarial fever if the liver be enlarged 
the spleen is still more so, and usually can be felt 
extending well beyond the costal margin. In hepatic 
abscess the fever occurs generally, though not invari- 
ably, in the late afternoon or evening; the patient 
may perspire profusely, independently of fever lysis, 
at any time of the day or night very generally 
whenever he chances to fall asleep. In malarial 
fever the paroxysm may, and generally does, occur 
earlier in the day; there is no marked tendency to 
sweating unless at the defervescence of the fever. 
In hepatic abscess a history of dysentery is nearly 
always obtainable if carefully inquired for. If fever 
be distinctly tertian or quartan in type it is not 
hepatic. In all doubtful cases the blood must be 
examined once or oftener, the rigor stage or early 
hot stage being selected for the examination, and the 
examination being made before administration of 
quinine. Apart from the presence or absence of the 
parasite or of pigmented leucocytes, marked increase 
of polymorphonuclear leucocytes would be in favour 
of hepatic abscess ; a relative excess of mononuclear 
leucocytes in favour, though not conclusive, of 
malaria. Occasionally cases are met with in which 
there is a history of malarial infection and, in 
addition to this, a history of dysentery, and the 
liver and spleen are both enlarged. In such cases 
diagnosis may be impossible without the microscope 
and the aspirator. 

Diagnosis of bilious remittent from yel- 
low fever. In bilious remittent the icteric tinting 
of the skin is an earlier feature; albuminuria is 
not so common and generally not marked ; tempera- 
ture is maintained high for many days, not subsiding 
in three or four days as in yellow fever ; the vomiting 
is profuse and bilious; the pulse does not become 
phenomenally slow as in yellow fever ; in the initial 



116 MALARIA [CHAP. 

stage the eyes are not congested and shining to the 
same degree ; and, of course, the parasite is to be 
found in the blood. 

Diagnosis from other types of paroxysmal 
fever. The following also are often mistaken for 
malarial fever : Cerebro-spinal meningitis ; urethral 
fever ; the fever attending the passage of gall-stones, 
or with inflammation of the gall-bladder ; that asso- 
ciated with pyelitis and surgical kidney ; lymphangitis, 
particularly that form of lymphangitis associated with 
elephantiasis and other filarial diseases ; undulant 
fever ; relapsing fever; trypanosomiasis; kala-azar, 
generally an irregular fever, though often quotidian, 
and almost invariably attended with enlarged liver 
and spleen and with anaemia; the fevers associated 
with tuberculous disease, with ulcerative endocarditis, 
with some types of pernicious anaemia, with splenic 
leucocythsemia, especially with visceral syphilis, with 
rapidly growing sarcoma, with forms of hysteria, and 
with many obscure and ill-defined conditions. The 
use of the microscope must not be neglected in such 
cases if there be the slightest doubt as to their exact 
nature. 

It must not be concluded that, although un- 
questionable evidence of the presence of one or more 
of the foregoing has been obtained, malaria is absent. 
Malaria often concurs with these diseases. Malaria 
is a common complication in trypanosomiasis, for 
example, and it is often hard to pronounce as to 
whether in such cases any given rise of temperature 
be due to the trypanosoma or to the malaria parasite. 
The same may be said of tuberculosis, of syphilis, and, 
in fact, of any medical or surgical condition. 

Typhoid and paratyphoid fevers. With 
out the microscope it is sometimes impossible to diag- 
nose typhoid types of malarial fever from genuine 
enteric. In both there may be diarrhoea or consti- 
pation ; in both there may be splenic enlargement ; 
in both there may be typhoid tongue, delirium, and 
the entire range of typhoid symptoms. As a matter 
of fact, until recent years all typhoid in India was 
regarded and treated as malarial fever malarial 



vn] DIAGNOSIS 117 

remittent and, doubtless, often with disastrous 
results. In circumstances in which the Widal test 
or blood culture is available, either is an invaluable 
supplement to microscopical examination of the blood. 

Typ 1 10- in a I a rial lever. One important fact 
in connection with the diagnosis of typhoid in malaria 
must ever be kept in mind. In individuals who have 
previously been subjected to malarial influences and 
who, perhaps, have suffered at one time from well- 
marked malarial fever, the oncoming of typhoid is 
often preceded by three or four paroxysms exactly 
like those of ordinary ague. This may occur even 
when the patient has been for some time in a non- 
malarial country, as England. In such cases quinine 
is usually given early in the attack ; its failure to 
check the disease should lead to careful prognosis 
and the avoidance of too active purgation. Similarly, 
well-marked malaria-like fluctuations of temperature 
and the appearance of the parasites in the blood 
in the course of a continued fever do not exclude 
typhoid. These cases are probably typho-malarial, 
and have to be treated as such as typhoid with a 
malarial complication. 

Necessity for microscopical examination 
of blood in pernicious attacks. Without the 
microscope it is sometimes impossible to diagnose, in 
time to direct appropriate treatment, pernicious coma- 
tose malarial attacks from heat-stroke or, if algide 
in character, from ordinary apoplexy ; malarial dys- 
entery, which must be treated with quinine, from 
ordinary dysentery, which must be treated with 
emetine, or ipecacuanha, or with the sulphates ; algide 
malarial attacks, from cholera ; certain types of 
malarial fever occurring, as they are very apt to do, 
in the puerperal state, from puerperal fever; mala- 
rial pneumonia, from croupous pneumonia ; malarial 
aphasia, from the aphasia of organic brain disease ; 
and so on. 

It is manifest that the revelations of the micro- 
scope have enhanced our powers of diagnosis in 
malarial affections enormously, and, therefore, our 
powers of treatment. Every doubtful case must be 



118 MALAEIA 

tested by it. In many forms of malarial disease, if 
life is to be saved, action must be prompt, decisive, 
energetic, and based on accurate diagnosis. The 
diagnosis of ordinary agues may be postponed for a 
day or two without much danger, and be made 
correctly enough without the microscope ; but every 
now and again a pernicious attack is sprung upon 
the practitioner, the nature of which he must be able 
to recognize at once, and recognize with confidence. 
When the parasite is seen in the blood, it is 
surely known that there is a malarial element in the 
case and that quinine is indicated. Confidence in 
directing treatment is a great matter. It cannot, 
therefore, be too strongly urged on the tropical prac- 
titioner to avail himself of every opportunity to gain 
experience in the use of the microscope in blood 
examinations, and to take care to have a suitable 
instrument in working order and available at a 
moment's notice. The practical difficulties in carry- 
ing out this recommendation are insignificant in com- 
parison with the importance of the results. With 
practice, five minutes usually suffices to effect a 
positive microscopical diagnosis of malaria. 

Every tropical practitioner should be provided 
with a travelling microscope, or, at least, carry 
about with him a few microscope slips for blood 
films. He must be on his guard, however, against 
concluding from the discovery of malaria parasites 
in his films that malaria is necessarily the only, or 
even the principal, disease his patient is suffering 
from. 



CHAPTER VIII 
MALARIA: TREATMENT 

Quinine. Many drugs have been employed in 
the treatment of malarial disease, and many drugs 
have some influence on it ; all sink into insignificance 
in comparison with quinine. In serious cases, to use 
any drug to the exclusion of quinine is culpable 
trifling. Therefore, so soon as a diagnosis of malaria 
has been arrived at, unless there be some very mani- 
fest contraindication, the first duty of the practitioner 
is to set about giving quinine. There are many 
ways of exhibiting the drug ; however given, care 
must be taken that it is so administered that there 
can be no mistake about its being absorbed. If the 
patient for any reason, such as inability to swallow 
or persistent vomiting, cannot take quinine by the 
mouth, and the existing condition be grave, it may 
be injected by the rectum ; but if the circumstances 
of the case are such that neither of these channels 
for administration is available, and a rapid action of 
the drug is imperative, it must be injected at once 
intramuscularly, or into a vein. 

When and in what dose to give quinine in ordinary 
cases. During a paroxysm of ordinary intermittent 
fever it is better, before giving quinine, to wait until 
the rigor and hot stages are over and the patient 
is beginning to perspire. A fever fit, once begun, 
cannot be cut short by quinine, and to give quinine 
during the early stages aggravates the headache and 
general distress ; but so soon as the skin is moist 
and the temperature begins to fall, the earlier the 
drug is commenced the better. Ten gr., preferably 
in solution, should be administered at the com- 
mencement of sweating, and thereafter 5 gr. every 
six or eight hours for the next week. This is an 
almost certain cure. The quinine may not always 
119 



120 MALARIA |CHAP. 

prevent the next succeeding fit, but it nearly always 
diminishes its severity. In ninety-nine cases out 
of a hundred the second following attack does not 
develop. 

When giving quinine it is well to administer an 
aperient and to keep the patient in bed ; in ordinary 
cases neither aperient nor rest in bed is absolutely 
necessary. In cachectics, however, and in all obsti- 
nate cases, both are valuable adjuvants. 

My practice in the treatment of ordinary 
malarial fevers is to give quinine for a week in the 
doses mentioned. At the same time, with a view 
to prevent recurrence of fever, I direct the patient, 
particularly if I have found the crescent form of the 
parasite in the blood for such cases are especially 
prone to relapse on one day a week (to give pre- 
cision to my directions I generally mention Sunday) 
to take a mild saline, sulphate of soda or Carlsbad 
salts, in the morning, and three 5-gr. doses of quin- 
ine during the day, or 15 gr. in one dose. After 
the first week, iron and arsenic in pill, tabloid, or 
solution are prescribed for a fortnight, and, after 
an interval of a week, for another fortnight. The 
weekly aperient and quinine had better be kept up 
for six weeks or two months or longer. In other 
cases I recommend, after the preliminary week, 5 gr. 
of quinine daily ; this dose to be kept up for three 
months, and repeated for a month every spring and 
fall for two years. 

Dose of quinine: toxic effects. There is great 
difference of opinion and practice about the dose of 
quinine. Some give 30 gr. at a dose, some give 3 gr. 
The former, in my opinion, is too large a dose for 
ordinary cases, the latter too small. It must never 
be lost sight of that occasionally quinine in large 
doses produces alarming effects ; not singing in 
the ears and visual disturbances merely, but actual 
deafness and even amblyopia, both of which may 
prove very persistent and occasionally permanent. It 
may also produce profound cardiac depression and 
gastric disturbance, and even death from syncope. 
Urticaria is another, and not very uncommon, effect 



vni] TKEATMENT: QUININE 121 

of even small doses of quinine ; some cannot take it 
on this account, and prefer to endure the disease 
rather than suffer the intolerable irritation induced 
by the remedy. I believe that nothing is gained by 
excessive doses ; in ordinary circumstances, 30 gr. 
spread over two or three days is usually ample to 
check an intermittent. 

In the endemic area of hsemoglobinuric fever, and 
even in the case of individuals who have long left 
that endemic area, large doses of quinine do some- 
times undoubtedly determine an explosion of that 
highly dangerous disease, especially so, but not ex- 
clusively so, in the cachectic. This important fact 
must not be lost sight of, and when there is any good 
reason to apprehend such a calamity, quinine should 
be given at first in J-gr. or 1-gr. doses, gradually in- 
creased to 5 gr. or more three or four times a day. 

For children under one year, J to 1 gr. for 
a dose suffices ; for older children the dose must 
be increased proportionately to age and strength. 
Children tolerate the drug well, so that in serious 
cases pernicious comatose or other cerebral forms 
the drug should be vigorously pushed. 

If a supposed ague resist the doses of quinine 
mentioned, the diagnosis should be revised. 

Quinine in pregnancy. Care should be exercised 
in giving quinine to pregnant females, for undoubtedly 
it sometimes causes miscarriage. The fact of preg- 
nancy, however, must not debar the use of the 
drug altogether ; only, in such circumstances, it 
should be given in the minimum dose likely to be 
effectual, say 3 gr. repeated every eight hours for 
two days. A pregnant woman will run more risk of 
miscarriage and of detriment to her health from re- 
peated ague fits than from a reasonable dose of quinine. 

Quinine in the puerperal state. It is a wise 
precaution in malarious countries to give a few 
5-gr. doses of quinine during labour or soon after. 
The puerperal state seems to have the effect, as any 
other shock or physiological strain might, of waking 
up the slumbering malaria parasite. A dose or two 
of quinine in these circumstances does no harm, 



122 MALAKIA [CHAP. 

and may, by choking off a threatening fever, avert 
suffering and anxiety, not to mention danger. 

Form, in which to administer quinine. Quinine 
is best given in solution, and probably the hydro- 
chloride, as containing a larger proportion of the 
alkaloid than the sulphate, is the best salt. Some, 
under the impression that hydrobromic acid prevents 
the singing in the ears attending the free use of the 
drug, prefer this to dilute sulphuric acid as a solvent 
for the ordinary sulphate. When the tongue is fairly 
clean and digestion not .altogether in abeyance, the 
quinine may be given in freshly prepared pill, in tab- 
loid form, in cachet, or enclosed in cigarette paper ; 
but in serious cases, particularly where the tongue 
is foul and digestion enfeebled, pills and tabloids are 
not to be trusted to. In these circumstances they are 
apt to pass through the bowels and to appear in the 
bedpan unaltered. In grave cases this occurrence 
must not be risked. 

Euquinine or euchinine, the ethyl carbonate of 
quinine, quinine tannate, and aristoquinine a di- 
quinine carbonic ester have the advantage of being 
almost tasteless, an important property in the case 
of fever in children or fanciful patients. 

Milk as a menstruum for quinine. If the taste 
of the ordinary salts of quinine be very much objected 
to, and if euquinine is not available, a good plan is to 
give quinine in powder in a tablespoonful of milk 
after the patient has previously lubricated the mouth 
with a morsel of bread and butter. Given in this way 
the bitter taste of the drug is not perceived. 

Injection of quinine. In any type of fever, if 
vomiting is persistent, if the brain is affected, or 
if the patient is insensible and cannot or will not 
swallow, recourse must be had to rectal, or intra- 
muscular, or intravenous injection of quinine. In all 
cases in which life is in imminent danger, and in 
which the earliest possible action of the drug is of 
importance, it must be so administered. The intra- 
muscular method is sometimes a painful one, and 
may be attended with some risk of abscess ; in the 
circumstances, such possibilities count for little. 



VTTl] 



TREATMENT: QUININE 



123 



The most suitable readily procurable salt for in- 
jection is the hydrochloride, or, better, the bihydro- 
chloride, which is soluble in less than its own weight 
of water. The hydrobromide is equally soluble. If 
neither of these salts can be procured the sulphate 
may be used, solution being effected by adding half 
its weight of tartaric acid.* Seven to 15 gr. dis- 
solved in 30 to 60 min. of sterilized water would be 
a full dose ; in grave cases this dose should be given 
three times in the twenty-four hours 

In giving an intramuscular injection the needle 
should be driven well home, deep into the muscles 
of the gluteal or scapular region, the skin being 
previously carefully cleansed. The solution must 
be freshly prepared and boiled, and the syringe and 
needle thoroughly sterilized. A syringe having a 
well-fitting glass piston and a plugging needle is the 
best instrument for giving these injections. In the 
malignant fevers of Rome as much as a drachm of 
quinine, divided into three or four doses, is sometimes 
administered intramuscularly in the course of twenty- 
four hours with the best results.! 

* The more serviceable salts of quinine, of which the bichloride 
of quinine and urea is one of the best, can now be procured in tabloid 
form specially prepared for intramuscular injection. These tab- 
loids are much better than solutions, which cannot be kept for 
any length of time without risk of fouling. 

f SOLUBILITY AND EQUIVALENT VALUE or SALTS OF QUININE. 

Those marked by an asterisk are suitable for hypodermic injections. 



Name of salt. 


Percentage 
of the 
alkaloid in 
the salt. 


Solubility in 
cold water. 


Amount 
equivalent in 
value to one 
of quinine 
sulphate. 


Sulphate 


73-5 % 


In 800 parts I'OO 


Hydrochloride 


81-8 % 




40 


90 


*Bihydrochloride 
Hydrobromide 


72-0 % 
76-6 % 




1 
45 




1-02 
96 


*Bihydrobromide 




60-0 % 




7 




1-23 


Bisulphate 




59-1 % 




11 


1-24 


Phosphate 






76-2 % 




420 


96 


Valerianate . 






73-0 % 




110 


1-01 


*Lactate 






78-2 % 


10 


94 


Sal icy late 






70-1 % 


225 


1-05 


*Hydrochloro-su 
Arseniate 


Iphat 


B 


74-3 % 
69-4 % slij 


2 

rhtly so 


99 
luble 1-06 


Tannate 






20-0 % 


3-67 


*Bichl. of q. and urea 







124 MALARIA [CHAP. 

The best place for an a intramuscular quinine in- 
jection is the gluteus maximus muscle at a point 
somewhere from 2 to 3 in. below the crest of the 
ilium. After the injection is made the part should 
be gently massaged so as to diffuse the solution, 
and the little wound sealed with collodion. Quinine 
ought never to be injected into the neighbourhood of 
large nerves or blood-vessels, and never into the sub- 
cutaneous connective tissue, as in the case of morphia 
and other alkaloids. I have long been in the habit 
of using intramuscular injections of quinine, both in 
hospital and in private practice, and, so far, without 
mishap. My belief is that abscess, indurations, and 
similar accidents are for the most part attributable 
to imperfect methods and carelessness. 

Intramuscular injections of bihydrochloride of 
quinine, 7 to 10 gr. in 10 to 20 minims of water daily 
for a week, is the best way of checking obstinately 
relapsing malarial attacks.* 

Precautions. It may be well to mention not with 
the idea of deterring the practitioner from using the 
drug in this way, but to impress upon him the necessity 
for sterilizing the patient's skin at the place selected 
for injection, and for care in keeping instruments and 
solutions aseptic that not only abscess, sloughing, 
and chronic painful indurations have sometimes fol- 
lowed the hypodermic injection of quinine, but also 
tetanus. In these latter unfortunate cases it was 
not, of course, the quinine that directly caused the 
tetanus ; it was the tetanus bacillus, and this tetanus 
bacillus was introduced either on a dirty needle or in 
a fouled solution. Further, as Semple has pointed 
out and emphasized, the tetanus bacillus may be 
present in the body without giving rise to symptoms, 
provided the vitality of the tissues is not seriously 
impaired by injury or irritant. Unlike morphia, or 
emetine, quinine is a' powerful irritant, and, when 

* Quinine when lodged in a muscle is not invariably imme- 
diately absorbed. It may be precipitated and thereafter slowly 
absorbed, thus ensuring the continuous presence of the drug in the 
blood. To this and to the consequent continuity of action on the 
parasite has been attributed the undoubted efficacy of this method 
of administering quinine in obstinate cases of malarial infection. 



vm] TKEATMENT: QUININE 125 

injected, may suffice to render the implicated area 
a suitable culture ground for the bacillus and the 
elaboration in lethal quantities of tetanus toxin. 

Tetanus is an exceedingly common disease in some 
tropical countries. In Western Africa, for example, 
a large proportion of wounds, no matter how trifling 
as wounds they may be, if they are fouled by earth 
or dirt result in tetanus. The French in Senegambia 
have found this to their cost. A gentleman "who had 
travelled much in Congoland told me that certain 
tribes poison their arrows by simply dipping the tips 
in a particular kind of mud. A wound from these 
arrows is nearly sure to cause tetanus. In many 
tropical countries, so general and so extensive is the 
distribution of the tetanus bacillus that trismus neo- 
natorum is a principal cause of the excessive infant 
mortality. Every precaution must therefore be taken 
to ensure that the little instrument which is so 
potent in saving life may not by carelessness be 
turned into an instrument of death. The systematic 
use of tetanus antitoxin in quinine injection treat- 
ment has been advocated; but, it seems to me, 
this is hardly practicable under ordinary tropical 
conditions. 

It is scarcely necessary to add that the intra- 
muscular injection of quinine must not be practised 
without good reason, or as the routine treatment of 
ordinary malarial attacks. 

Quinine by enema. Quinine may also be given 
by enema. It is readily absorbed if the bowel be 
not too irritable. The dose should be a large one. 
Thirty gr. given in this way and repeated in an hour 
or two in malarial comatose fever has sometimes a 
rapid effect. It is the most effective method of 
exhibiting the drug in such attacks in children. Five 
gr. in warm solution, repeated hourly, retention being 
ensured by the attendant keeping the patient's but- 
tocks together, is strongly recommended by Daniels. 

Intravenous injection of quinine. In cases of 
pernicious comatose remittent, in which it is of im- 
portance to obtain a rapid and powerful action of the 
drug, Bacelli recommends the intravenous injection 



126 MALARIA [CHAP. 

of the following solution : Hydrochloride of quinine 
1 grin., sodium chloride 75 eg., distilled water 10 grm. 
This solution he has employed in these desperate 
cases with much success, injecting directly into 
a vein 5 to 7 grm. at a time. He states that whereas 
with hypodermic injection the mortality in such cases 
amounted to 17 per cent., with intravenous injection 
it was reduced to 6 per cent. Wright recommends 
for intravenous injection doses of 15 gr. in 250 to 
300 c.c. of normal saline, to be repeated once or 
twice if necessary. The intravenous injection of 
quinine is now regarded by many British practitioners 
of tropical experience as the most appropriate and 
efficient treatment in all pernicious comatose and 
hyperpyrexial attacks. Bass, speaking from large 
experience, remarks that it is never necessary to give 
more than 30 gr. in twenty-four hours and never 
more than 10 gr. at one time. Large doses are 
dangerous. 

Warburg's tincture. A very effective medium for 
giving quinine, and one of high repute in many places, 
is Warburg's tincture. This contains, besides quinine, 
a number of drugs, many of them doubtless inert, 
although some of them certainly possess valuable 
therapeutic properties. Experience has shown that 
the combination is really a good one, and that 
Warburg's tincture sometimes succeeds where quinine 
alone fails, or acts too slowly. It generally proves 
a powerful sudorific. The dose is \ oz., and is re- 
peated after two or three hours. The action appears 
to be somewhat similar to that of the antipyretics 
now in vogue antipyrin, phenacetin, etc. drugs 
which, when given in combination with quinine in 
the routine treatment of malarial fevers, although 
they have no curative properties, sometimes con- 
tribute very markedly to the relief of headache and 
febrile distress. They must be used with great 
caution in adynamic cases. At the present time 
these drugs are much abused in many malarial 
countries. 

Mode of action of quinine. In what way quin- 
ine acts has not yet been satisfactorily explained. 



vni] TREATMENT: QUININE 127 

Some, reasoning from the toxic influence this drug 
exerts on many kinds of free amoebae, say that it acts in 
malaria in the same way that is, as a direct poison 
to the parasite. They support this view by pointing 
to the degenerative changes, as evidenced by imperfect 
staining reaction, exhibited by such parasites as 
persist in the blood after administration of quinine 
has been commenced. Others maintain that it acts in 
stimulating the phagocytes, the natural enemies of 
the parasite. Some experimentalists allege, on the 
other hand, that it paralyses the white corpuscles. 
That quinine does not kill all blood protozoa is 
certain, for it has no effect on the hsemoprotozoa 
of birds and reptiles, or on the trypanosomes. 
Certain it is that in man, with the exception of the 
crescent body, it usually quickly causes the parasite 
to disappear from the general circulation. It is said 
by some to be most effective against the free spores 
and the very young intracorpuscular forms, but in- 
operative against the more mature parasites ; hence 
they advocate giving it early in the parasitic cycle. 
Others, on the contrary, maintain that it is operative 
only on the large intracorpuscular forms, and therefore 
advocate its use at a late stage of the cycle. 

Strange to say, quinine, especially in small doses, 
seems sometimes to wake up latent malaria and to 
bring about an ague fit. The same may be said of 
a course of mineral waters, of hydropathic treatment, 
and of sea-bathing. 

Treatment of bilious remittent. In bilious 
remittent and other severe forms of malarial fever 
one must not, as in a simple intermittent, wait for 
the remission before giving quinine. To wait for 
remission or sweating used to be the practice; it 
was said that to give quinine at any other time 
was wrong, and that something terrible would hap- 
pen if the superstition were ignored. In all grave, 
fevers a full dose, 10 or 20 gr., should be adminis- 
tered at once. The parasite cannot be attacked too 
soon. It is desirable to have the bowels freely 
opened ; quinine is said to act better then. It is 
a mistake, however, to delay the administration of 



128 MALARIA [CHAP. 

the specific pending the action of the aperient. If 
an aperient be indicated, it should be given along 
with the quinine. Five or 10 gr. of calomel is 
the best. Thereafter the quinine, in 5- or 10-gr. doses, 
should be repeated every three or six hours until 
fever has subsided. If there be much bilious vomit- 
ing, an emetic of ipecacuanha or repeated draughts 
of hot water will clear the stomach and perhaps, 
after a time, enable it to retain the quinine. The 
drug is sometimes more readily retained if given in 
chloroform water or in effervescing form. Mus- 
tard poultices to the epigastrium, small hypodermic 
injections of morphia, ice pills, sips of very hot 
water, effervescing mixtures, champagne, 1- or 2- 
drop doses of tincture of iodine, are each of them, 
on occasion, aids in stopping vomiting. If these 
measures fail, and if the vomiting is so frequent 
and so severe that the dose is immediately rejected, 
and if there is no diarrhoea, it is advisable to clear out 
the rectum with an injection of warm water and, when 
the action of this has concluded, to throw up an enema 
of 30 gr. of quinine in 3 to 10 oz. of water with a 
few drops of acid to aid solution ; at the same time, 
5 or 10 gr. of calomel may be given by the mouth. 
This failing, or in preference to this, recourse must 
be had at once to intramuscular injections. So soon 
as the stomach has quieted down, quinine may be given 
again by the mouth. 

Treatment of hyperpyrexia. Hyperpyrexia 
must be promptly met by prolonged immersion in the 
cold bath, rectal injections of iced water, ice-bags to 
the head, etc. At the same time quinine must be in- 
jected intramuscularly, or into the rectum or into 
a vein, in full doses, and repeated every three hours 
until 30 or 40 gr. or more have been given. Prompt 
action in these cases is of the first importance, and 
may save life. If temperature be kept down for three 
or four hours the quinine gets time to act on the 
parasites crowding the intracranial vessels; but if 
temperature be allowed to mount and to remain high 
the patient is destroyed before the specific has a 
chance. The cold bath, therefore, is absolutely 



vni] TREATMENT 129 

necessary. In such circumstances, antipyrin and 
similar antipyretics are worse than useless. Good 
rules are to prepare to give the cold bath, or cold 
pack, if the axillary temperature reach 106 F., and 
to remove from the bath when rectal temperature 
has fallen to 102 F. Although the temperature has 
been reduced by this means, thermometrical observa- 
tions must be continued at short intervals, say every 
two hours; directly it begins to rise again, say to 
102-103 F., the patient should be replaced in the 
bath : this must be repeated as often as necessary. 
Patients who have suffered from a hyperpyrexial 
attack should be invalided home. 

Treatment of algide and dysenteric at- 
tacks. Algide and dysenteric attacks demand 
quinine combined with a little opium. If dysen- 
teric symptoms persist, emetine, or ipecacuanha, 
or the aperient sulphates in full doses, and opium, 
according to the nature of the dysentery, must also 
be given. 

Other drugs in malaria. During the con- 
tinuation of a fever I have never seen much, if 
any, good from arsenic. The place of arsenic is not 
as a substitute for quinine during fever, but as a 
blood restorer after fever. I have heard of cases 
of obstinate ague cured by J-drachm doses of liquor 
arsenicalis ; I have never myself ventured on these 
heroic doses. Recent experiments show that although 
salvarsan and neo-salvarsan have some effect on the 
quartan and tertian parasites, they have little if any 
on the subtertian. A strong infusion of "the hairs 
that grow between the grain and the outer leaves of 
the mealie cob " (dose, 3 tablespoonfuls) has recently 
been recommended as a cure for malaria ; I have no 
experience of it. I have never seen benefit, in any way 
approaching that derived from quinine, from methy- 
lene blue, carbolic acid, iodine, anarcotine, analgen, 
phenocol, parthenium, ailanthus, chiretta, eucalyptus, 
or any of the many drugs which from time to time 
have, on very limited experience, been recommended 
in malaria. In those cases, however, in which froin 
some idiosyncrasy the patient is unable to take 
F 



130 MALARIA [CHAP. 

quinine, it may be necessary to have recourse to 
some of these drugs. Methylene blue in doses of 
2 to 3 gr., and pushed until the urine becomes 
deeply tinged or signs of kidney irritation appear, 
enjoys a certain reputation in America and in 
Germany. Anarcotine was at one time, during a 
quinine famine, extensively and successfully employed 
in India ; the dose is from 1 to 3 gr. Phenocol hydro- 
chloride, in 10-gr. doses, administered five, three, 
and two hours before the expected paroxysm, has 
been used with advantage in Italy, and is said to 
have succeeded in some instances in which quinine 
had failed. Tannin has been recommended in obsti- 
nate cases where quinine had failed or could not be 
taken. A grain of capsicum with 5 gr. of quinine 
is said to succeed sometimes where quinine alone 
fails. I have given this pill, but cannot determine 
how much the capsicum contributed to the cure. 
I cannot say I have ever seen an ordinary uncom- 
plicated ague absolutely resist quinine properly given. 
I have seen cases of obstinately recurring ague 
apparently permanently cured by a few intramuscu- 
lar injections of quinine, although the same drug, 
given in the ordinary way, had proved a comparative 
failure. There can be little doubt, however, that 
in rare cases it does fail, and that it is more efficient 
against the benign tertian and the quartan than 
against the malignant parasites. It does not 
always prevent relapse, even in the non-malignant 
infections. 

Treatment of splenic tumour and malarial 
cachexia. The enlarged spleen of malarial cachexia 
is best treated by counter-irritation (linimentum iodi, 
or ung. hydrarg. biniodid.) and saline aperients, com- 
bined with quinine, arsenic, and iron. The subjects of 
hepatic enlargement and abdominal congestion arising 
from malarial disease of long standing generally derive 
much benefit from a course of Harrogate, of Kissingen, 
of Carlsbad, or of other aperient mineral water. When 
these waters cannot be obtained, a morning aperient 
saline, kept up for two or three weeks, is an efficient 
substitute. Aperient courses should, as a rule, be com- 



vin] TREATMENT 131 

bined with moderate doses of quinine, and be followed 
by courses of iron and arsenic. Cachectics should 
leave the malarial centre where they are being 
poisoned, and spend at least one year in Europe. They 
must be careful to clothe warmly, especially on first 
entering colder latitudes; to keep lightly employed 
both in body and mind ; to avoid over-fatigue, con- 
stipation, exposure to a very hot sun, high winds, 
rain ; to live temperately, and generally to follow 
the dictates of common sense. Residence in a dry, 
cool, sunny climate, or a sea -voyage, is an admirable 
restorative in malarial cachexia. 

Malarial cachectics must exercise great caution 
about exposing themselves to the fresh sea-breezes on 
the return voyage to Europe. Neglect of this is nearly 
sure to be punished with an attack of fever, some- 
times of fatal blackwater fever. Many such fatalities 
occur yearly in cachectics from West Africa during 
the voyage to Europe. Return to Europe in the 
winter season should, if possible, be avoided, the 
colder months being spent in the Canaries, Egypt, or 
the Riviera. If quinine is being taken when the 
patient leaves for Europe, its use, in the accustomed 
dose, should be systematically continued during the 
voyage and for several months, at least three, after 
arrival. I find that malarial cachectics are often 
allowed to start on the voyage to Europe inadequately 
instructed on these important points. 

Food and drink in malaria. The food in 
malarial fevers ought to be light and principally 
fluid. Effervescing mixture often helps to clean the 
tongue and settle the stomach. Lemon decoction 
(made by boiling for half an hour a sliced lemon, 
including skin and seeds, in a pint and a half of 
water, straining, diluting, and sweetening) is much 
relished in remittents, and may be taken systematically 
by all malarials with advantage. Fresh lemonade, 
fresh lime juice, weak cold tea, and iced water 
sipped are all of them much appreciated by these 
patients. During convalescence the quality of the 
food should be gradually improved and, if necessary, 
supplemented by a light wine or bitter ale. 



132 MALARIA [CHAP. 

PROPHYLAXIS 

The basis of malaria prophylaxis is the fact that 
particular species of mosquitoes are indispensable for 
the propagation of the parasites. Practical measures, 
therefore, have for their object the extermination of 
these insects, or, failing this, the prevention of their 
bites. War need not be waged against all mosquitoes ; 
our present knowledge seems to indicate that only the 
Anophelinse have to be considered. As the members 
of this sub-family are easily recognized (p. 146), and 
as they are somewhat fastidious in their habits, their 
extermination in limited areas is by no means a 
hopeless task. 

Drainage, cultivation, and flooding. 
Experience has shown that much can be done to 
free a locality of malaria. Drainage and cultivation 
where the land will repay the expenditure, permanent 
and complete flooding where it will not and where 
such flooding is possible, proper paving and draining 
of unhealthy towns, and the filling-in of stagnant, 
swampy pools these are the more important things 
to be striven for in attempting the permanent sani- 
tation of malarious districts. In England, in Hol- 
land, in France, in Algeria, in America, and in 
many other places, enormous tracts of country which 
formerly were useless and pestilential have been 
rendered healthy and productive by such means. 

In carrying out extensive public works care should 
be exercised to provide good subsoil drainage in con- 
nection with irrigation, to provide efficient drainage 
to carry off superfluous water before introducing a 
larger water supply into a town previously inade- 
quately watered, and to avoid interfering with the 
natural drainage of a district in constructing rail- 
ways and so forth. To do anything that may raise 
the level of the subsoil water in potentially malarial 
districts is most dangerous. Equally so is the neglect 
to fill up or provide for the drainage of excavations, 
such as the " borrow-pits " in railway construction, 
or similar holes [in which rain-water may accumulate 
and create breeding pools for mosquitoes. 



vin] PROPHYLAXIS 133 

Location of dwelling - houses. The in- 
habitants of malarious districts ought to live in 
villages or towns with well-paved streets and courts, 
going out to cultivate their fields during the day, 
but returning to sleep in the town before nightfall. 
Houses should be placed, if possible, on high and dry 
situations, a clay soil being avoided. All forest under- 
growth should be cleared away. It is unwise in 
countries such as Africa, where nearly all Europeans 
suffer from chronic malarial poisoning, to place dwell- 
ing-houses in exposed situations, or where high winds 
are apt to produce chills and consequent fever relapses. 
For the same reason, in elevated situations houses 
should be well sheltered by trees planted at some 
distance from the premises, or by higher ground. 
In the neighbourhood of houses the felting of natural 
grass should, if possible, be preserved, or, if it be 
disturbed, replaced immediately, or the exposed soil 
covered with rammed clay or cement. It is unwise 
to have flower-beds or vegetable gardens near bed- 
room windows, or to allow water from bath-rooms or 
cook-houses to flow over the ground in the vicinity of 
the house, or to keep water unchanged in tubs or 
water-butts for mosquitoes to breed in. Pools and 
puddles of stagnant water should be filled up and 
turfed. Water-butts and cisterns should be screened, 
and sagging roof-gutters rectified; discarded tins, jars, 
pots, bottles, and all rubbish capable of holding water 
in which mosquitoes could breed should be got rid of, 
and plants or trees in which collections of water occur 
should be cut down. Ponds should be stocked with 
fish, as fish tend to keep down mosquitoes by preying 
on their larvse. The neighbourhood of swamps is to be 
avoided. A few ounces of petroleum thrown on the 
surface of a pond will prevent mosquitoes from de- 
positing their eggs on the water, and will asphyxiate 
their larvae ; the petroleum requires to be renewed 
from time to time say once a week. Coal tar may 
be used in the same way. There are many simple 
precautions of this sort which will occur to every 
prudent man, and which, in malarious countries, he 
should take care to have carried out. 



134 MALARIA [CHAP. 

Danger from vicinity of natives. Seeing 
that in malarious localities a large proportion of the 
native children harbour the malaria parasite, and that 
a large proportion of the anophelines in the neighbour- 
hood of native houses are infected, it is manifest that 
to visit native quarters when mosquitoes are feeding, 
especially in the evening or during the night, is fraught 
with danger. For the same reason the European 
should build his house or pitch his camp well away 
a quarter of a mile at least from native quarters, 
and beyond the flight of infected anophelines ; and, 
for the same reason, native children should not be 
allowed to frequent European establishments. 

The cultivation of trees and plants 
Much was expected at one time from the cultivation 
of eucalypti of different species particularly Euca- 
lyptus globulus as a means of suppressing malaria. 
Specific virtues were attributed to its balsamic exhal- 
ations. These hopes have not been fulfilled in every 
case ; but, undoubtedly, the effect of this rapid ly- 
growing tree in drying the soil is of use in some 
localities. The same may be said of the cultivation 
of the sunflower, chrysanthemum, kiri tree, and other 
plants. Possibly these plants influence insect life in 
other ways. 

Native experience to be consulted. It is 
unwise to build where the natives say the neigh- 
bourhood is unhealthy ; natives generally know such 
places. Neither, if it can be avoided, should a stay 
be made where the natives are anaemic and have 
enlarged spleens sure indications of an unhealthy 
district. 

Other precautions. Bedrooms should be 
situated in an upper storey, and dwelling-rooms be 
well raised on piles or arches above the ground. 
Common sense tells us that campaigns and journeys 
in malarious districts should be conducted and 
concluded during the healthy season, if there be 
one. Mosquito nets must invariably be iised; many 
travellers attest their value, so plainly indicated by 
recent discoveries. The body should be covered up 
during sleep, and every precaution (as fires, etc.) that 



viii] PROPHYLAXIS 135 

circumstances permit should be employed to keep 
mosquitoes away. 

The subjects of malarial infection are danger- 
ous to their companions ; they should, therefore, be 
avoided or, if this is impracticable, compelled to 
sleep under efficient mosquito nets. Mosquitoes must 
be rigorously excluded from hospitals. It will prove a 
truly economical procedure to supply natives liberally 
with quinine; this should go hand in hand with other 
steps that may be taken to render a place salubrious. 

Mosquito - protected houses. It has been 
proved experimentally and practically that complete 
protection from mosquito bite, and therefore from 
malaria, can be secured by having the dwelling-house 
protected by gauze fittings, with a mesh not larger 
than twelve strands to the inch, in the doors, win- 
dows, chimneys, and ventilators. When possible, such 
measures should be adopted and intelligently applied. 
I believe some such arrangement will, in the near 
future, be a feature in the domestic architecture of 
malarial countries. 

Quinine and arsenic as prophylactics. 
A great deal has been written about the prophylactic 
use of arsenic and quinine in malaria. Opinions 
are very much divided on the subject. Most deny 
that arsenic possesses any prophylactic power what- 
ever. Duncan, after an exhaustive study of the 
recorded evidence, and after extensive and carefully 
conducted experiments made by himself on large 
bodies of troops, concludes that arsenic has no pro- 
phylactic virtue whatever; but that quinine, in a 
daily dose of 3 to 5 gr., lessens the fever admissions 
by one-half. He therefore strongly advocates the 
systematic use of the latter drug in all campaigns 
involving a sojourn in malarious districts. In this he 
is backed by the opinion of many medical men of ex- 
perience. Corre, although he admits the prophylactic 
power of quinine against ordinary malarial fever, says 
it has no influence in preventing pernicious fevers. 
Other authorities, on the contrary, state that those 
who take quinine systematically, though liable to mild 
fevers to some extent, enjoy immunity from pernicious 



136 MALARIA 

attacks. On the whole, the evidence is distinctly in 
favour of the systematic employment of a dose of 
quinine as a prophylactic. 

There is considerable difference of opinion and 
practice as to the dose and the time of administra- 
tion of quinine. There are three principal methods : 
(a) 5 gr. every day after breakfast, (b) 10 gr. twice a 
week, (c) 15 gr. every tenth and eleventh day. Some 
prefer one method, others another ; when one plan 
proves unsatisfactory another should be tried. If for 
any reason quinine is not tolerated, that individual 
is unsuitable for residence in malarial countries. 

Other prophylactics Tea, coffee, and very 
small doses of alcohol are also decidedly of service ; 
but they should be used in strict moderation, the last 
being taken only after the work of the day is over, 
and when there is no longer any necessity for going 
out in the sun. Crudeli speaks highly of lemon decoc- 
tion (made as already described, p. 131) as a prophy- 
lactic ; its use can do no harm, and it is a pleasant, 
slightly tonic, and slightly aperient beverage, well 
suited as a drink in hot climates. The decoction made 
from one lemon may be taken daily in divided doses. 

Education, It is impossible to lay down direc- 
tions for the prevention or suppression of malaria 
which would be applicable at all times and to all places, 
and under every circumstance. What might suit one 
set of conditions might not be appropriate under other 
conditions. But by one, or other, or all of the measures 
indicated above, much can be done to mitigate or 
avoid endemic malaria. Perhaps the most important 
initial measure in the struggle with the pestilence is 
the education of the inhabitants of malarial countries 
in the mosquito-malaria theory. Sanitary measures can 
rarely be carried out effectually without the co-opera- 
tion of those whom they are intended to benefit ; and 
this cannot be secured unless the rationale of their 
operation is understood. Therefore, those responsible 
for the public health in malarial districts should, by 
one means or another, indoctrinate the people in the 
mosquito-malaria theory. If he succeed in this, the 
sanitarian will have an easier and a more hopeful task. 



CHAPTER IX 
MALARIA: THE MOSQUITO 

THE part played by the female mosquito, or gnat, 
in the life-history of the germ of malaria, as well 
as in that of yellow fever, of filariasis, of dengue, 
and perhaps other diseases of warm climates, renders 
some knowledge of the natural history of this insect 
a necessity for the tropical pathologist. 

Although the Culicidse or mosquitoes had received, 
now and again, some attention from naturalists ever 
since the time of Linnaeus, it is but recently that 
the extent, complexity, and importance of this group 
of insects have been apprehended. Considerations of 
space preclude me from giving more than the merest 
outline of the subject ; those who desire to follow it 
up would do well to provide themselves with one, 
or more, of five recent works namely, "The Mos- 
quitoes of North and Central America and the West 
Indies," by Howard, Dyar, and Knab ; Alcock's 
" Entomology for Medical Officers," Theobald's 
" Monograph of the Culicidse," Blanchard's " Les 
Moustiques," and Giles's " Handbook of the Gnats or 
Mosquitoes" in which will be found details of all 
that was known about these insects up to the date of 
their publication. 

The Culicidae, of which there are at least 500 
known and, probably, over 200 additional and as yet 
undescribed species, belong to the order of Diptera, 
or two- winged insects, in which the posterior of the 
two pairs of wings of the typical insect are rudimen- 
tary, being represented by the halteres or balancers 
(Fig. 23). Like most other members of the order, 
they lay eggs, from which are hatched worm-like 
larvce; these, after growth and several changes of 
skin, cease to eat, and become converted into nymphs 
F* 137 



138 




proboscis 



.palpi 
eyes 

occiput 

prothoracic 
lobes 

scute Hum. 
metathorax 

abdomen 



-basal lobes 



tar sal 
segments 



,Fig. 23. Female mosquito. 



THE MOSQUITO 



139 



or pupce, from which, by a rupture of the pupa-case, 
the adult insects or imagines emerge. 

The geographical range of the mosquito extends 
from the frigid zones to the equator. Given stagnant 
or slow-flowing water and a summer temperature, 
there this family of insects will be represented by 
one or many species. The distribution of particular 
species and the abundance of mosquitoes in any given 
place are determined, in addition to temperature and 
hydrographic conditions, by complicated circumstances 
not yet wholly understood. 

The adult insect feeds on vegetable juices; the 
males, with few exceptions, exclusively so. In 




Fig. 24. Various forms of mosquito eggs. 

a, Grabhamia dorsalis; b, Culex pipiens ; c, Culex scapularis; d, Mausonia 
titillans; e, Stegomyia calopus (fasciata) ; /, Tamiorhynchus f ulvus ; g, Culex 
fatigans; h, lanthinosoma mexicanum; i, Taeniorbynchus fasciolatus. 

addition to a vegetable diet, the females of most 
species, when opportunity offers, suck the blood of 
mammals, birds, occasionally of fishes, reptiles, and 
even that of other insects and their larvae. The male 
mosquito, not being a blood-sucker, takes no part in 
the diffusion of disease ; it is the female only that is 
a germ carrier. 

Soon after impregnation the female lays her eggs 
(Figs. 24, 25, 26) from time to time singly, in 
groups, or in boat-shaped masses, according to species 
either on the surface of still water, on which they 
float, or in propinquity to water. The process of 
hatching out depends in great measure, as indeed do 
all the developmental processes connected with the 
mosquito, on temperature, being retarded or even 



140 



MALARIA 



[CHAP. 



suspended by cold and accelerated by warmth. In 
some species the eggs remain dormant throughout 
the winter or through a long term of dry weather, 
but in ordinary circumstances the larvae hatch out 
in from two to three days, and at once proceed to 
feed voraciously on the organic materials suspended 
in the water. Being air-breathers, a great part of 
their time is passed at the surface of the water, 
where they lie in such a position which varies 
with species that the respiratory opening placed 
near the tail can function readily (Figs. 27, 28). 
After the several moultings the larva, now very much 
increased in size, passes to the nymph or pupa phase 
(Fig. 29), during which the little animal ceases to 




Fig. 25. Eggs of Anopheles 

maculipennis. 
a, Under side ; b, upper side. 




Fig. 26 Culex pipiens egg-boat. 
(After Sambon.) 



feed, and for the most part floats just awash at the 
surface of the water. In from one to two days the 
pupa-case bursts and the insect, emerging, stands on 
the empty case till its wings have dried, when it flies 
away. From first to last, from egg to imago, the 
process of development takes about a month in the 
temperature of the Italian summer ; but a much 
shorter time (seven to ten days) may suffice in a 
tropical climate. As each female mosquito may lay 
eggs many times in a season, and many hundreds 
of eggs each time, and as the young female can 
produce eggs within a week or ten days after her 
emergence from the pupa-case, it follows that one pair 
of insects can give rise to a large progeny in the 
course of a summer. 

During cold weather the development of the larva 
is temporarily suspended, and the surviving adults, 



IX] 



THE MOSQUITO 



141 



at all events the females, hibernate in dark and shel- 
tered places, to become active again on the return of 
warm weather. In this way the species is carried 
over the cold weather of winter, though there are 




Fig. 27. Anopheles maculipennis, Meig, 
larva, showing breathing position at 
surface of water. (After Howard, Butt. 
United States Dept. Agr.) 



some species that hibernate in the larval stage and 
others in the egg. The duration of the life of the 
adult insect has not been definitely ascertained; it 




Fig. 28. Culex fatigans larva in 
breathing position at surface 
of water. (After Howard, 
Bull. United States Dept. Agr.} 



is known that some species, if supplied with water 
and suitable food, can live for several months. 

It is suggested that the mosquito tends to re- 
turn to the particular pool in which she herself was 



142 MALARIA [CHAP. 

hatched out to deposit her own eggs, and that she 
rarely strays from the vicinity more than a few 
yards, quite exceptionally beyond half a mile. Occa- 
sionally she may be blown for some distance by 
gentle winds ; and it is believed that in certain 
circumstances, probably connected with food supply 
and over-stocking, she will travel singly or in vast 
swarms for long distances. Such migrations, however, 
are quite unusual. Of course, mosquitoes may be, and 
often are, transported great distances in ships, railway 
carriages, and similar vehicles, and in this way man 
aids in their diffusion ; but for the most part the 
mosquito is a feeble and timid flyer, disliking to 





Fig. 29. 
Pupa of Anopheles inaculipennis. Pupa of Culex fatigans. 

leave her accustomed haunt, and seldom rising high 
above the ground. So soon as even a moderate 
breeze springs up she seeks shelter in bush, or house, 
or cranny. Some species are domestic; others live 
exclusively in jungle or forest ; some, after passing 
the day in the open, visit human habitations, or the 
haunts of birds and beasts, during the night. The 
great majority of species are nocturnal in habit, 
although many of these can be coaxed into activity 
by the reproduction of night-like conditions of shade 
and atmospheric stillness. 

The accompanying figures (Figs. 23-39) give a 
good idea of the leading features of the anatomy of 
the mosquito and of the names applied to the various 



IX] 



THE MOSQUITO 



parts and organs, and will help the student to under- 
stand descriptions of genera and species. 




Fig. 30. -Heads of Culicini. 
r a, Male ; b, female. 



The antennae of the male insect (Figs. 30, a, and 
31, c) are usually adorned with a profusion of long, 
silky hairs, in marked contrast to the scanty, down, 




Fig. 31. Heads of Anophelini. 
r. Male; d, female. 



144 



MALARIA 



[CHAP. 



like, and short hairs on the antennae of the female ; 
this is an easily recognized indication of sex in most 
species. 

The proboscis consists of a number of piercing 
elements enclosed in a sheath the labium, which, at 
its free end, is tipped with two minute labella. In 
feeding, the mosquito raises her hind legs and presses 
the tip of the proboscis against the skin. This 
causes the labella (Fig. 32, h) to splay out and so serve 
as a support to the piercing elements namely, the 
labrum, hypopharynx, mandibles, and maxillae (Figs. 
32, 33) which are now thrust into the skin. The 




Fig. 32. Mouth parts of female mosquito. 

a, a, Antennae ; l>, b, palpi ; c, labrum-epipharynx ; d, <1, mandibles ; 
e, hypopharynx ; /, /, maxillae ; g, labium ; h, labella. 

labium does not penetrate ; as the stabbing elements 
sink into the skin it bends backwards about its middle, 
the labella still pressing against the skin and clasping 
the stilettes. The secretion of the salivary glands 
(Figs. 11, 14) passes along the salivary duct and 
thence down a minute canal which traverses the 
hypopharynx to its tip, and so into the subcutane- 
ous tissues of the bitten animal. It is supposed 
that the function of this secretion is, by irritating, to 
determine a flow of blood to the part bitten, and 
also to prevent coagulation of the blood. To many 
people this secretion is a powerful irritant, although 



THE MOSQUITO 



145 



repeated inoculation tends to produce tolerance, as in 
the case of many other organic poisons. 

A buccal tube is formed by the apposition of 
the upper surface of the hypopharynx to the under 
surface of the labrum (Fig. 33). Along the tube 
so formed the blood is aspirated by the expansion of 
the gizzard-like organ (Fig. 11, b), and then driven by 
the contraction of the same into the stomach 
(Fig. 11), or middle intestine, as it is called. A mos- 
quito will fill herself in a minute or thereabouts. She 
then withdraws her proboscis and flies heavily away 
to some sheltered spot to digest the meal. Apparently 
the first step in digestion is the concentration of the 
blood she has imbibed ; this is effected by excretion 
of the watery 

portion of the ,c 

liquor san- 
guinis. Often 
while this 
process of de- 
hydration is 
proceeding, 
even while 
she is suck- 
ing, droplets 
of clear fluid 
may be seen 
ejected at her 
anus. The 
concentrated 
blood becomes 
in this way a viscid tarry mass, which is gradually. 
in the course of three or four days, partly absorbed, 
and partly voided as gamboge-coloured faeces. The 
mosquito is now ready for another meal. 

The rich pabulum supplied by blood seems to 
favour ovulation. 

Diagnosis. Many kinds of insects possess 
blood-sucking propensities. As a rule there is little 
difficulty in distinguishing most of these from the 
mosquito. There are certain Diptera, however, which 
closely resemble the latter in appearance as well 




Fig. 33. Section of mosquito. (Adapted from 

Nuttatt and Shipley.) 

c, Labrum-epipharynx ; d, mandible; e, hypopharynx ; 
' maxillae; 
trachea. 



/, maxilfae"; g, fabium; i, sail vary' duct"; j, "muscles ; 



146 



MALARIA 



as in habit. These the student should learn to 
distinguish. 

The principal of the mosquito-like blood-suckers 
are the Midges (Cheironomidse) and the Sandfiies 
(Phlebotomus). The following are the diagnostic 
points : 

Mosquitoes have a long suctorial proboscis, and the 
veins of their wings are fringed with scales. 

Midges are very slender and minute, have a short 
suctorial apparatus, and wings without scales. 

Sandflies are small, slender, and very shaggy, have 
a comparatively short suctorial apparatus, compara- 




Fig. 34. Wing of Culex concelor (male), to illustrate terminology. 

c, Costa ; , auxiliary vein ; I 6, first to sixth longitudinal veins and branches ; 
7, seventh or false (unsealed) longitudinal vein ; VI, unsealed vein between 
fifth and sixth longitudinal veins; h, humeral transverse vein; s, super- 
numerary transverse vein ; m, middle transverse vein ; p, posterior transverse 
vein; A , costal cells ; B, subcostal cells ; C, marginal cell; D, anterior fork 
cell or first aubmarginal cell; E, second submarginal cell ; F, first posterior 
cell; G, hinder fork or second posterior cell ; H, third posterior cell; 7, first 
basal cell ; J, second basal cell ; K, anal cell ; L, axillary cell ; M, spurious cell. 

tively long legs ; narrow, pointed, hairy wings, and 
long hairy antennae. 

The medical man should be able not only to 
recognize mosquitoes but also to determine genera 
and species. Obviously, it would be impossible to 
give here minute descriptions of the large number of 
species that have been described ; I must, therefore, 
refer the reader to the monographs on the subject 
already mentioned. On the next page is given a 
synoptical table which will enable the student 
to identify the main groups or sub-families to which 
any given mosquito belongs. It has been prepared 
after a careful consideration of the various classifi- 
cations proposed. Most authorities separate the 
Culicidae into two sub-families, namely (1) Cor- 



147 




22, 
3 a" 



ll 



p 

9 s5 



s ji; 



ruct 
in t 
Sabe 
" an 



*ifs 

Ss<s 



spsoqoJd 



148 MALAKIA [CHAP. 

ethrinse, in which the proboscis is short and not 
formed for piercing; and (2) Culicinae, or typical 
mosquitoes with elongate proboscis. The Culicinse 
again are arranged in four natural tribes according 
to the table. 

Most workers at the group now regard the Ano- 
phelini as naturally definable in a single genus, 
Anopheles, which may be characterized as follows : 

GENUS ANOPHELES (Meizen) 

Head only moderately broad, usually covered 
with upstanding forked scales, though scales of other 
kinds are also present in a few species. Maxillary 
palps long and spathulate in the male ; as long as, or 
not much shorter than, the proboscis in the female. 
Free edge of scutellum simply convex, not trilobate ; 
metanotum bare. Abdomen either sparsely hairy or 
with localized patches of scales ; sometimes with a 
considerable expanse of scales which, however, never 
form a uniform, complete, and compact investment. 
Wings commonly dappled or profusely speckled, but 
occasionally quite spotless. Legs remarkably elon- 
gate. In repose the body is usually inclined at an 
angle with the resting surface. 

The eggs are boat-shaped, and with rare excep- 
tions have their investing membrane inflated laterally 
to form a pair of floats. 

The larva has the head at least as long as broad, 
and has four bristles or feathered hairs projecting 
from the free edge of the clypeus. The long lateral 
hairs of the thorax and abdomen are strongly 
feathered. Some or all of the abdominal segments 
as far as the 7th carry dorso-laterally a pair of 
characteristic rosettes or cockades of scales. The 
breathing openings are situated in a hollow on the 
dorsum of the 8th segment, the hollow being bounded 
laterally and posteriorly by a system of folds or 
valves. 

The larvae occur not only in all kinds of stagnant 
water, but also in pools in the beds of rivers and 
mountain streams, or even in the current if there is 
also floating weed and debris for their protection, in 



IX] 



THE MOSQUITO 



149 



domestic water- vessels, and occasionally in the water 
that collects in holes in trees ; some species thrive in 




Fig. 35. Graphic key to generic distinctions based on scale characters. 

a, b, c. Narrow-curved scales ; d, e,f, hair-like curved scales ; g, h. upright forked 
scales; i,j, long twisted scales ; k, large lanceolate scale; I, m, small narrow 
lanceolate scales ; w, large expanded scale ; o, p, spindle-shaped scales ; 
q, broad flat scale ; r, s, broad irregular scales. 




Fig. 36. Graphic key to generic distinctions based on scale characters. 



a, Anopheles, head, scutellum, and lateral view of head scales ; b, Stegomyia, head, 
scutellum, and lateral view of head scales ; c, ^Edes, head and scuteuam scales. 




Fig. 37. Continuation of Fig. 36. 

M egarhinus, head, scutellum, and lateral view of head scales; e.Culex, head, 
ecutellum, and lateral view of head scales. 



150 MALARIA [CHAP. 

brackish or salt water, and each species has its own 
particular kind of habitat. 

For those who still think it desirable to sub- 
divide the genus Anopheles, the following synopsis of 
subgenera may be serviceable : 




sjods jDutjsip o.vu -611B9JJS jo sqocls 

unqi 9jom ion SuiATzq Jo panods 3(jBp pn^ jq^n aiBtua^ni snoMiunu 
aou jen'na SutAi 'jo eSpa ?aoj,a ojaj aajio-iq SOIM jo aS] 



ix] THE MOSQUITO 151 




Fig. 38. Anopheles maculipennis'(feraale). 




\ 



Fig. 39. Anopheles funestus;(female). 



152 



MALARIA 



[CHAP. 



SPECIES THAT ARE KNOWN TO FOSTER THE MALARIA 
PARASITES 

NOTE. In the case of several species it is knowii 
that they are not always susceptible to experimental 
infection throughout their range, and that at a given 
time and place all individuals are not susceptible. 




Fig. 40. Resting Fig. 41, Resting position Fig. 42, Resting 
position of Culex of Anopheles sineusis. position of Ano- 

pipiens. pheles maculipen- 



EUROPE. A. maculipennis ; A. sinensis ( = pseudopictu$, 
Grass!) ; A. superpictus, Grassi ; A. turkhudi, Listen ( = his- 
paniola, Theob.). 

AFRICA. A. maculipennis, A. umbrosus ( = strachani), A. 
mauritianus, A. culicifacies (= Pyrelophorus sergenti, Theob.), 
A. funestus, A. turkhudi, A, costalis, A. maculipalpis, A. 
pharoensis. 

ASIA. A. umbrosus, A. barbirostris, A. sinensis (=jesoensis) 
A. culicifacies, A. funestus var. listoni (= formosaens is and 
cohaesa), A. minimus, A. turkhudi, A. ludlowi, * A. rossi (?), 
A. leucosphyrus (?), A. stephensi,' A. fuliginosus, A. maculatus. 
A. maculipalpis, A. theobaldi, A. willmori. 

NORTH AMERICA. A. crucians, A. punctipennis, A. quadri- 
maculatus. 

SOUTH AMERICA. A. punctipennis, A. pseudopunctipennis, 
A. pseudomaculipes, A. intermedius, A. cruzi, A. tarsimaculatus, 
A. albimanus, A. arygrotarsis. 

AUSTRALIA. A. bancrofti (?), A. annulipes. 

* This species has recently been shown by Christophers to be 
the transmitter of a peculiarly localized malaria in the Andaman 
Islands. It breeds only u\ brackish water, and is not found 
farther away from such water than half a mile. 



ix] THE MOSQUITO 153 

Whether other Anophelinse are efficient has not 
been determined. So far no other Culicidse have 
been found to foster the malaria parasites of man, 
and experiments with Culex albopunctatus, C. peni- 
cillaris, C. vexans, C. pulchrita?-sis, O. pipiens, 
Twniorhynchus richiardii, Tkeobaldinella annulata, 
and T. nemorosa have proved negative. Considering 
that Culex pipiens transmits several Hsemoprotozoa 
of birds, closely allied to those of men, it would be 
rash to assert positively that the Anophelinse are 
the only mosquitoes which transmit the malaria 
parasite. 



CHAPTER X 
TRYPANOSOMIASIS OF MAN* 

Definition. Morbid conditions produced by para- 
sites belonging to the genus Trypanosoma, including 
irregular chronic fever, skin eruptions, local oedema, 
adenitis, physical and mental lethargy, and, in a large 
proportion of cases, death. 

History. Although its true etiology was not 
apprehended until quite recently, sleeping sickness, 
the terminal phase of African trypanosomiasis, has 
been known for over a century. 

The occurrence of trypanosomes in animals has 
been recognized for at least sixty years, first in cold- 
blooded vertebrates, later in mammals. The best- 
known and first-described mammalian species is that 
of the rat (Trypanosoma letvisi). It was discovered 
by Lewis, in 1879, in Calcutta. In the following 
year Evans described a similar parasite (T. 
evansi) in the blood of horses in India; he found 
that it also infests camels, elephants, buffaloes, and 
dogs, and that it is the cause of the disease called 
" surra," which, from time immemorial, the natives 
of India have ascribed to the bite of certain blood- 
sucking flies. Fifteen years later Bruce showed 
that nagana, the " fly disease " of horses, bo vines, 
and other species of domestic mammals in Africa, is 
due to the same kind of organism (T. brucei). Since 
these discoveries were made trypanosomes have been 
found in many species of mammals, as well as in 
numerous birds, fishes, and reptiles. Though differing 
in degree of virulence, they all, at least in mammals, 
give rise to a more or less similar type of disease.! 

* Laveran and Mesnil in their "Trypanosomes et Trypano- 
somiases, 1912," have given a very complete and accurate 
account of this subject. For full details up to date of publica- 
tion the student is referred to this work. 

|- For a brief description of the trypanosomes of mammals the 
reader is referred to p. 192. 

154 



HISTORY 155 

In 1890 Nepveu, in the course of researches in 
Algeria on malaria, encountered these flagellates in 
the blood of man. He appears to have been the first 
to do so ; but, unfortunately, his original description is 
vague, and his illustrations are crude. He established 
no definite relationship between the organisms he 
alluded to and the associated morbid conditions ; 
consequently, his observations did not receive the 
attention their significance deserved, although, later, 
he emphatically affirmed that a trypanosome has to 
be reckoned with as a factor in human tropical 
pathology. 

In 1901 Forde encountered a flagellated parasite 
in the blood of a European su ffering from an irregu- 
lar non-malarial fever, in the River Gambia Colony. 
This parasite he showed to Button (1902), who 
recognized it to be a trypanosome. Later, Button 
found a similar organism in the blood of a native 
of the same colony, and suggested the name T. 
gambiense, which the parasite now bears. Subse- 
quently many cases were described, both in Euro- 
peans and natives, and the association of the para- 
site with a peculiar form of febrile cachexia was 
quickly and satisfactorily established. 

A great impulse was given to the study of the 
subject by the discovery of trypanosomes in the 
cerebro- spinal fluid, as well as in the blood of cases 
of sleeping sickness, by Castellani in Uganda in 1902. 
Castellani's suggestion that the parasite is the cause 
of sleeping sickness has been fully confirmed by 
Bruce, Nabarro, and other investigators, who have 
also shown that in Uganda the tse-tse fly, Glossina 
palpalis, is the transmitter of the infection, an 
hypothesis already advanced on analogical and epi- 
demiological grounds by Sambon and Brumpt. Then 
(1909) came the important discovery by Kleine that 
the tse-tse fly was no mere mechanical transmitter 
of the trypanosome, as had been supposed, but was 
a true intermediate host. Later, on morphological 
and clinical grounds, Stephens and Fantham estab- 
lished the existence in Rhodesia of another species 
or variety of trypanosome (T. rhodesiense), which 



156 TRYPANOSOMIASIS [CHAP. 

Kinghorn and Yorke have since proved to be trans- 
mitted by Glossina morsitans. 

Meanwhile Chagas had associated a disease, occur- 
ring in Brazil, with a peculiar species of trypanosome, 
Schizotrypanum cruzi, having a special transmitter, 
Lamus (Conorhinus) inegistus. (See p. 188.) 

Geographical distribution. The presence 
of T. gambiense has been definitely ascertained for the 
west of Africa from the Senegal in the north to 
Mossamedes and the upper reaches of the Lualaba 
in the south. Also in the Niger and Congo basins, 
and in Uganda, where it must have been introduced 
only recently, apparently about the end of the nine- 
teenth century. Throughout this vast area the 
infection is not uniformly distributed. It occurs 



posterior extremity. ..- ^^,-^.mdulating membrane. 




^vacuole. chrometoid granules 

blepharoplast. ^anterior extremity. 

Fig. 43. Schema of trypanosoma, with nomenclature. 

in a patchy way, principally along the banks of 
the rivers and shores of the lakes, conformably to 
the distribution of certain tse-tse flies, and appar- 
ently being influenced also by the frequency and 
nature of the intercourse and by the occupations of 
the inhabitants. There is strong reason for believing 
that the recent influx of Europeans into tropical 
Africa and the consequent increased movement of 
the natives is spreading the disease, and that this 
extension has by no means reached its limit. As 
regards the eastern side of the continent, the disease 
has not extended beyond the shores of the Victoria 
Nyanza. In this locality its present limits are 
Wadelai on the Nile to the north, and the southern 
end of Lake Tanganyika to the south. There is 
every reason to apprehend that, in time, the distri- 
bution of trypanosomiasis will become coextensive 
with that of the appropriate tse-tse flies. 



xj THE PARASITES 157 

Etiology. In common with other trypauosomes, 
T. gambiense, as seen in fresh blood, is an active, 
wriggling organism, having a spindle-shaped body, 
which is slightly compressed laterally. It is provided 
with a delicate, wavy membrane the undulating 
membrane which fringes the convex dorsal edge of 
the body, and terminates in a free, whip-like filament, 
the flagellum. Suitably stained specimens show a 
nucleus about the centre of the body, and a minute, 
deeply staining chromatin mass, the blepharoplast 
(kinetonucleus), generally near one pole. The ex- 
tremity of the body which encloses the blepharoplast 
is regarded by recent authorities as the posterior ex- 
tremity ; it varies greatly in shape and may be pointed 
or obtuse. The opposite end, the anterior extremity, 
tapers to a point, to which the flagellum is attached. 
Adjoining or surrounding the blepharoplast is a small 
non-staining area, the vacuole. The free border of 
the undulating membrane is somewhat thickened ; 
this thickened border springs from the blepharoplast 
at one end, and its continuation at the other constitutes 
the flagellum. In certain specimens the cytoplasm is 
homogeneous; in other specimens comparatively faintly 
staining granules are visible. In comparing and 
measuring a large series of specimens, it becomes 
apparent that there is great diversity in the dimen- 
sions of the body of the parasite, the nucleus, and 
the flagellum (Fig. 46). Thus, some are short and 
stumpy, with short or no flagellum, measuring from 
14 to 20 p in length ; others are long and slender 
23 to 33 fj. ; others again are of intermediate dimen- 
sions 20 to 24 n in length by 1'40 to 2 p. in breadth. 

In certain instances evidences of multiplication by lon- 
gitudinal division are seen. The process commences most 
frequently in the blepharoplast, which elongates, and then 
divides. The nucleus divides almost simultaneously, some- 
times before the blepharoplast. The division of the blepharo- 
plast is followed by the duplication of the thickened margin 
of the undulating membrane, beginning at its blepharoplast 
attachment ; this, in its turn, is followed by longitudinal 
division of the whole body. According to Miss Muriel 
Robertson an accomplished protozoologist working in Uganda 
only a portion of the flagellum is split off with the daughter 
individual. The fission of the body is effected dorso-ventrally, 



158 TRYPANOSOMIASIS [CHAP. 

but the resulting forms do not separate along the ventral 
border until the new flagellum has appeared, the final separa- 
tion proceeding antero-posteriorly ; parasites still adhering 
by their posterior extremities are occasionally encountered. 
The division forms are usually of about equal size, and slightly 
smaller than the parent form. 

Crithidia-like forms have been found in the cerebro-spinal 
fluid and, according to Breinl and Fantham, latent encysted 
forms in the lungs, spleen, and bone marrow. Granule- 
shedding, similar to that described by Balfour in pathogenic 
spirochaetes, has been observed by Fry and Ranken in the 
liver, spleen, bone marrow, and lymphatic glands. Wolbach 
has shown that in experimental animals trypanosomes are 
found in all organs, including the brain. 

Although we are accustomed to observe the 
parasites in the blood, there is reason to believe that 
this is not their only principal habitat. As suggested, 
by Mott, and proved by Greig and others, they are 
generally more easily found in the lymphatic glands, 
which are often markedly enlarged. They occur 
also in the cerebro-spinal fluid, and probably in 
the fluid of the serous cavities; facts pointing to 
the lymphatic system as an important habitat of the 
trypanosoma. As regards the blood, there is no 
uniformity in the number of parasites present : some- 
times they are fairly abundant, one or two in each 
field of the microscope ; at other times and in the 
same patient it may be difficult or impossible, even 
after prolonged search, to find a single specimen. 
In some cases they tend to recur cyclically at 
intervals of a week or more. On the whole, although 
this is by no means invariable, the parasites are most 
abundant in the blood during the febrile attacks to 
which these patients are so subject. 

Formerly many attempts were made to culti- 
vate T. gambiense on artificial media, but without 
marked success, notwithstanding that the parasite is 
readily communicated to monkeys, dogs, rats, guinea- 
pigs, and many other animals, though amphibia and 
reptiles are immune. Success was not attained till a 
suitable medium, termed the N.N.N. medium,* was 
discovered. 

* The composition of this is as follows : Agar 14 grm., salt 
6 grm., distilled water 900 c.c. ; macerate carefully with fresh 



x] THE PARASITES 159 

On this medium Novy and McNeal have shown 
that T. lewisi and other trypanosomes multiply rapidly 
in the water of condensation, and that in many species 
subcultures can be carried on through an indefinite 
number of generations. Thus, T. gambiense has been 
cultivated for four generations ; T. rhodesiense is 
much more difficult to cultivate. Unfortunately, 
T. gambiense is somewhat refractory and does not 
multiply readily in this culture medium. In such 
cultures, however, the trypanosome form may be lost, 
the flagellum springing directly from the anterior 
extremity and no undulating membrane developing. 
Cultivation is now utilized as a diagnostic method 
of demonstrating trypanosomes, if very scarce in the 
peripheral blood. 

Interesting observations have been made by 
Laveran and others on a very striking phenomenon 
exhibited by trypanosomes, in certain circum- 
stances, both in the blood and in artificial cultures. 
Upon the advent of unfavourable biological condi- 
tions in these media, such as the influx of sera 
of non - susceptible animals, increasing scarcity of 
nutriment (as in the alimentary tube of an appro- 
priate invertebrate host), lowering of temperature, 
or the addition of chemical solutions to artificial cul- 
tures, the trypanosomes tend to congregate in bunches 
in which the posterior extremities of the parasites are 
apposed, the flagellated extremities remaining free 
(Fig. 44). One such group is termed a "primary" 
agglomeration, and may be composed of upwards of 
a hundred individuals. In many cases these primary 
clusters themselves become grouped together to form 
still larger tangled masses known as " secondary " 
agglomerations. Agglomeration does not of itself 
seem to have any ill effect on the constituent para- 
sites, which may again disperse, apparently quite 
unaltered. Sometimes all the individuals forming 
a cluster become disagglomerated ; at other times 

water for twenty-four hours. After sterilization the agar is 
pipetted off into test-tubes and one-third volume of fresh rabbit's 
blood added. After sloping, the tube must be incubated to test 
sterility. 



160 TRYPANOSOMIASIS [CHAP. 

the break-up is only partial, a certain number of 
the more feeble and less mobile parasites remaining 
together and slowly dying. The significance of this 
phenomenon has yet to be ascertained. Some authors 
believe that it indicates a recuperative molecular 
interchange between the associates. 

In cultures, in many instances, trypanosomes 
acquire a spherical form and undergo multiple divi- 




Fig. 44. Agglutination of Trypanosoma lewisi in the detibrinated blood 
of an immunized rat. (After Laveran.) 

sion. They lose their flagella in the process, certain 
of the division forms subsequently acquiring such an 
organ, which now invariably springs, as already men- 
tioned, directly from the blepharoplast. These culture 
forms possibly represent a stage in the life of the 
parasite which, in normal conditions, is passed in the 
vertebrate host, or, more probably, in the insect host. 
How long a trypanosome infection may persist in 
the human body has not been definitely determined, 



THE PARASITES 



161 



but there is direct evidence that it may continue for 
several three or four years. From what we know 
of the incubation period of sleeping sickness it is not 
improbable that this period is sometimes greatly 
exceeded, and may extend to seven years or longer. 

Extrusion of granules and their further develop- 
ment. Fry and Ranken have recently described 
under this title a remarkable phenomenon which 
may have an important bearing on the life-history 




9 10 

Fig. 45. Trypanosomes shedding granules. (After Fry and Ranken, 
" Proc. Roy. Soc.") 

of the trypanosome (Fig. 45). Balfour describes 
a similar process in spirochaetosis. It is especially 
observable in those more chronic forms of trypano- 
somiasis of man and animals, in which the tryp- 
anosomes disappear from the blood for considerable 
periods at a time, and may explain the occasional 
infectivity of blood in which the parasite cannot be 
detected with the microscope. 

The observers referred to state that trypano- 
somes may or may not contain two kinds of granules, 
one kind being of the nature of food material, the 



162 TRYPANOSOMIASIS [CHAP. 

other, which is a sharply defined refract ile body, being 
concerned in the process they describe. Their descrip- 
tion refers to .T. gambiense,\)ut they have witnessed a 
similar process in other species of trypanosomes. 
Referring to T. gambiense, they write : 

" In this species the granules are multiple and move rapidly 
backwards and forwards in the long axis of the trypanosome. 
They exhibit also a dancing movement and appear to throw 
themselves against the periplast and rebound from it. Some- 
times the .granules approach the surface, and in doing so may 
actually cause a slight protrusion on the covering membrane. 
This seems to be preliminary to extrusion, as afterwards the 
granule may be shot out with a certain degree of force into 
the free fluid to some distance from the host. In this species 
extrusion is not as a rule effected from the extremity (as in 
T. nanwn)^ but from some point near the middle of the 
trypanosome body. 

" Extrusion of granules, if occurring generally, apparently 
heralds a disappearance of trypanosomes from the blood and is, 
in fact, the precursor of a trypanolytic crisis. Under favour- 
able circumstances, e.g. after treatment, extrusion is followed 
by rapid disintegration of the trypanosomes." 

As regards the granules, they state that there is "a definite 
sequence of events during an exacerbation of the disease : 
(1) Trypanosomes without granules ; (2) trypanosomes showing 
granules which gradually become larger and very evident ; (3) 
many free granules ; (4) many trypanosomes but no granules ; 
(5) trypanolytic crisis, or death of the animal. " 

After extrusion the granules, which are now 
motile, if they escape the phagocytes, undergo the 
developmental change illustrated in Fig. 46. 

R6le of the tse-tse fly. An important practical 
point is the question of the transmission of the para- 
site. As already mentioned, the well- and long-known 
rdle of the tse-tse fly* in the transmission of the 
trypanosome of nagana suggests that the correspond- 
ing parasite of man is transmitted by a corresponding 
insect, a suggestion borne out by considerations of 
distribution, and by experiment. 

Minchin, Gray, and Tulloch have shown that 
when Glossina palpalis was half fed on a rat infected 
with the cattle trypanosome of Uganda (probably 
T. brucei), and immediately transferred to complete 
its meal on a healthy rat, in four out of five 

* For a brief description of the tse-tse flies, see p. 197. 



THE PARASITES 



163 



experiments the healthy rat contracted the in- 
fection ; but 'if the transference was delayed, for 
an hour even, the experiment failed. As similar 
experiments with other blood-sucking flies (Stomoxys, 
for example) which, apparently, have no biological 
connection with T. brucei, succeeded to some extent, 
and as such a method of feeding * can only occur 
exceptionally in nature, it is reasonable to infer 
that the closely allied T. gambiense is not usually 




Fig. 46. Trypanosoma gambiense : various forms from blood and 
cerebro-spinal fluid. 

a, Elongated posterior extremity ; 6, blunt ditto: c,d, and e, dividing forms 
. and ft, probably sexual forms ; g, small round forms from cerebro-spinal fluid 

communicated in this purely mechanical way. We 
know that the malaria parasite can be communi- 
cated by the direct inoculation of malarial blood, 
but it is universally admitted that direct inocu- 
lation is not the natural method of transmission. 
The idea that the glossina inoculated trypanosomes 
in this direct way originated, undoubtedly, with 
the interpretation that has been placed on Bruce's 
experiments with nagana, an interpretation which 
may be incorrect. It is true that both Bruce 
and Minchin communicated trypanosoma infection 



164 TRYPANOSOM1ASIS [CHAP. 

to monkeys and other animals by means of tse-tse 
flies caught in the jungle. It is manifest, how- 
ever, that before these tse-tse flies could have fed on 
the experimental animals an interval of many hours 
must have elapsed since their previous blood-feed. 
Therefore, in view of Minchin's failure to communi- 
cate the disease by insects that had been kept for 
only a short time after being fed on trypanosoma- 
infected animals, it is reasonable to conclude that 
there could have been no direct inoculation by these 
jungle-caught flies. 

A more probable interpretation of the experi- 
ments, and one based upon what we know of the 
transmission of other hsemoprotozoa, is to the effect 
that glossina serves as an alternative host in a 
truly biological sense, and not as a simple mechanical 
transmitter; that the trypanosome, after entering 
the intestinal canal of the insect (Fig. 47), undergoes 
developmental changes requiring a considerable space 
of time for their completion, developmental changes 
which enable it subsequently, when the opportunity 
occurs, to effect a lodgment in the human or other 
vertebrate host. That this view of the role of the 
tse-tse fly is correct has been established by Kleine, 
who, after feeding G. palpalis on animals infected 
with T. brucei, set the same flies to bite fresh 
animals at various intervals. Up to twenty (possibly 
sixteen) days the flies failed to convey the infection, 
but from that period onwards to the forty-seventh 
day, when the experiment concluded, they com- 
municated the trypanosome to eight animals. Bruce 
and others have confirmed Kleine's results and have 
ascertained that they apply to T. gambiense and 
other trypanosomes. It is estimated that 0-03-0-34 
per cent, of wild G. palpalis in Uganda are infective ; 
but in captivity, if fed on trypanosome-infected 
blood, 5-6 per cent, of flies become infective, and, 
according to Miss M. Robertson, a still greater 
proportion (21 per cent.) if the flies are starved after 
feeding. More recently Bruce and his co-workers 
have found that in Nyasaland 1 -35 per cent, of all 
wild tse-tse flies are infected with one or other of 



TRANSMISSION OF PARASITES 165 



the disease - producing trypanosomes. It is to be 
noted that the trypanosome at intervals, not as yet 



S.d. 



Abd. in. 




S. st. 



R. 



R. amp. 



Fig. 47. General view of digestive tract of Glossina palpalis. (After 
Minchin, Report on Sleeping Sickness to the Royal Society.) 

Ph., pharynx ; GEs., oesophagus ; C. s. d., common salivary duct ; S. d., salivary 
ducts; Pro., proventriculus; Th. in. t thoracic intestine: 8, at., sucking 
stomach ; S. gr. t salivary glands; Abd. in., abdominal intestine ; R., rectum ; 
R. amp., rectal ampulla. 

ascertained, is incapable of infecting the fly. For this 
observation also we are indebted to Miss M. Robertson. 



166 TRYPANOSOMIASIS [CHAP. 

The trypanosome-infected contents of the stomach 
of a glossina if injected into a susceptible animal do 
not communicate the infection, although the parasites 
may be alive at the time of the injection. Possibly 
the multiplying forms in the stomach are of the 
same sexual nature as those of malaria in the mos- 
quito gamete forms and therefore incapable of 
multiplication in a vertebrate host. Koch for T. 
brucei, and Minchin, Gray and Tulloch for T. gam- 
biense, state positively that the parasites show 
marked sexual differentiation within the stomach of 
the insect host. 

The discovery by some of the above-mentioned 
investigators that jungle-caught tse-tse flies harbour 
a variety of species of trypanosome " wild forms," 
while only a small proportion of them convey 
T. gambiense (sometimes as many as a thousand of 
these insects were required before a successful infec- 
tion of monkeys was obtained), makes it evident that 
extreme precision and care must be observed in order 
to eliminate sources of fallacy. That the tse-tse fly 
conveys the trypanosome is certain, and Koch's 
observation that trypanosoma forms may sometimes 
be observed in the blood-free droplet of clear fluid 
which can be expressed from the proboscis, as well as 
the conditions observed in experimenting, indicate 
that the infection is conveyed by the bite of the fly. 
But, even assuming that glossina has been proved to 
be the proper transmitter of T. yambiense, much 
remains to be done : the history of the trypanosome, 
from the time of its removal from one vertebrate by 
the glossina to its introduction into another verte- 
brate, has not been completed. 

Minchin, having discovered encysted develop- 
mental forms of trypanosomes in the lower gut of the 
tse-tse fly, conjectured that the infection might be 
transmitted by the droppings of the fly when swal- 
lowed by man or other vertebrates. Further obser- 
vation has not supported this conjecture. 

Dealing with the entire life-history of T. gam- 
biense, Miss Robertson summarizes her conclusions 
as follows ; 



x] LIFE-HISTORY OF PARASITES 167 

" 1. T. gambiense undergoes an endogenous cycle 
of development in the vertebrate in the circulating 
blood. This cycle is of irregular duration and is 
repeated many times in the course of the disease. 

"2. The short forms may be regarded as the 
adult blood-types ; the intermediate types are growth- 
forms, proceeding to the long individuals, which are 
those about to divide. The products of division give 
rise, directly or indirectly, to the adult forms. The 
adult forms appear to be alone responsible for carry- 
ing on the cycle in the transmitting host. 

" 3. The multiplication occurs in the circulating 
blood. 

" 4. Multiplication of the parasites was never 
found within the cells of the liver, spleen, or lungs in 
monkeys. 

" 5. Rounded non-flagellate types were found on 
one occasion in the lung, liver, and spleen of a 
virulently infected monkey. They appear for the 
most part to be destined to destruction, but it is not 
excluded that they may survive in small numbers as 
latent forms. 

" 6. In the fly the trypanosomes are first estab- 
lished in the posterior part of the midgut. Multi- 
plication occurs and trypanosomes of very varying 
sizes are produced. 

"7. From the tenth or twelfth day onwards 
slender long trypanosomes are to be found in in- 
creasing numbers. These finally move forwards to 
the proventriculus and are the dominant, though 
not the only, type seen there. The proventriculus 
becomes infected as a rule between the twelfth and 
twentieth days. 

" 8. The salivary glands become infected by the 
slender proventricular types. They reach the salivary 
glands by way of the hypopharynx ; arrived in the 
gland, they become attached to the wall and assume 
the crithidial condition. Multiplication occurs, and 
finally small trypanosomes are produced, closely 
resembling the blood type. The passage through the 
crithidial stage is characteristic of the salivary 
development, and the trypanosome forms just men- 



168 TRYPANOSOMIASIS [CHAP. 

tioned are derived from the crithidial types. The 
development in the salivary gland takes from two to 
five days before the forms are infective. 

"9. The fly is never infective until the glands 
are invaded. Trypanosomes from the proventriculus 
when injected into a monkey never produce infection. 
Trypanosomes may be found in the salivary glands as 
arly as the sixteenth day of the cycle. An early 
infection of the salivary glands is always preceded by 
a very virulent and rapid gut infection. 

" 10. The trypanosomes are never attached to the 
wall of the alimentary canal, and there is no intra- 
cellular multiplication in the gut cycle. A crithidial 
stage does not occur in the gut cycle. The tryp- 
anosomes are never found in the body cavity nor 
are they ever established in the rectum. 

"11. Conjugation has not been observed, never- 
theless the fly cycle as a whole has the biological 
significance of conjugation." 

Considering the bionomics of glossina, it seems 
not improbable that some of the trypanosomes, after 
undergoing certain unknown changes, may enter the 
larva, and be thus transmitted by heredity to the 
vertebrate host. This has been suggested by Sambon. 
So far, however, such hereditary transmission has 
not been established. Yet it may be pointed out 
that it would conform in a remarkable manner 
to the habits of the babesise in relation to their 
invertebrate transmitters. 

To settle these and other questions of great 
practical importance in connection with the role of 
the tse-tse fly in trypanosomiasis, experiments with 
laboratory- reared insects are indispensable ; and, 
further, observations should be extended to all 
the species of the genus. We have no assurance 
that Glossina palpalis and G. morsitans are the 
only efficient transmitters. Direct infection through 
breaches of surface or through mucous membranes 
(e.g. during coitus, as has been suggested by Koch) 
cannot be entirely excluded as a possibility. 

Predisposing causes. Neither age, sex, occupa- 
tion, nor race per se has any influence on the 



x] SYMPTOMS 169 

susceptibility to trypanosoma infection, except in so 
far as they conduce to opportunity. Thus occu- 
pations (boatmen, fishermen, water-carriers) which 
imply a frequenting of the waterside haunts of the 
glossina conduce to infection. 

Incubation period. The incubation period of the 
glossina-conveyed disease and that resulting from direct 
artificial inoculation seem to be about the same, from 
two to three weeks in the case of dogs, horses, and 
monkeys. As regards man, observations are too few 
to warrant anything like a definite statement on the 
point, but in one or two instances circumstances 
seem to point to a similar incubation period. 

Symptoms. Without being too definite on the 
point, and basing the statement on the experience of 
a limited number of cases, I would suggest that the 
bite of an infected glossina is followed, in a propor- 
tion of cases, by a degree of local irritation of greater 
or less severity. This subsides in the course of a few 
days, to be followed, sooner or later, by fever which 
may last a week or longer, and which may be accom- 
panied by the appearance, in Europeans at all events, 
of a peculiar type of erythema and a certain amount of 
serous infiltration of the connective tissue. A form 
of hypersesthesia, known as " Kerandel's symptom," 
is usual, though not invariable ; if the patient strikes 
a limb against any hard object, a degree of discom- 
fort amounting to actual pain is experienced, the 
sensation being slightly delayed. In time the fever 
subsides more or less completely, to recur at irregular 
intervals of days or weeks. The fever is sometimes 
mild, sometimes severe, and occasionally hyperpyrexial 
(106 '6 F.), the evening temperature being always the 
higher. The fever may last for weeks ; the apyretic 
period may be equally prolonged. On the other 
hand, the fever may be continuous, or the apyretic 
period may last for months. Irregularity of degree 
and duration is a feature of the fever and, also, of the 
other clinical manifestations of trypanosomiasis. In 
time the patients become debilitated, anaemic, feeble 
both intellectually and physically. Headache is very 
often complained of. The heart's action is generally 



170 TRYPANOSOMIASIS [CHAP, 

rapid and easily excited. The cervical glands and 
the glands of other parts of the body enlarge and 
may become tender. It may be that only one gland 
is visibly involved, or there may be a recognizable 
general polyadenitis, including the abdominal glands. 
The implicated glands may be very prominent, or 
they may not be easily felt. In the early stage of 
the infection they are soft, later they are indurated. 
Sometimes they, are painless, sometimes distinctly 
painful and tender, rarely suppurating. This con- 
dition of irregular fever, of debility, of polyadenitis, 
of slight anaemia, may go on for months, or even, in 
some instances, for years. 

There is reason to hope that in a proportion of 
cases the disease may terminate at this stage. I know 
and have seen three cases in which after many months 
of illness the symptoms entirely disappeared, and have 
been absent for several years, during which the parasite 
could no longer be found in the blood, whether tested 
by microscope or by animal injection (two cases). But, 
considering that the disease may present at various 
stages periods of quiescence which, in some instances, 
may be very prolonged, it would be rash to say 
whether in any instance of apparent recovery we are 
dealing with a radical cure, or merely with one of 
these long periods of latency. Experiments and ob- 
servations by Laveran and others in other forms of 
trypanosoma infection, as well as cases of the disease 
in Europeans, justify the belief that occasionally the 
parasite does die out, either spontaneously or as a 
result of treatment. 

It would appear that in a given area and in a 
given population there is a tendency for the virulence 
of the local trypanosome to i decrease with lapse of 
time. Thus, the trypanosome of Southern Nigeria, 
where sleeping sickness presumably \ms been long 
endemic, is less virulent and much more amenable to 
treatment than that of Uganda, where it is of quite 
recent introduction. 

Remarkable features of human as well as of 
animal trypanosomiasis are the skin affections and 
the local cedemas. In many of the lower animals 



SYMPTOMS 



171 



affected with their special trypanosomes, in addition 
to fever and physical lethargy, papular and pustular 
eruptions are not uncommon ; and in man, especially 
in negroes, an exceedingly itchy papular eruption is a 




Fig. 48. Rash of human trypanosoraiasis. (From photo by R. McKay,) 

common symptom. In the European, and possibly in 
the negro, but in the latter in consequence of his colour 
not so evident, extensive skin areas are affected with 
a fugitive, patchy, frequently annular erythema (Fig. 
48),usually most evident on the chest and back, but also 
very often on the face and elsewhere. This erythema 



172 TRYPANOSOMIASIS [CHAP. 

seems to occur most frequently and most distinctly 
in the earlier stages of the infection. Some of the 
patches may extend to six inches or even to a foot 
in diameter, their margins fading off insensibly into 
the surrounding normal skin. Sometimes the ery- 
thema takes the form of large rings, occasionally 
complete, more frequently interrupted and irregular. 
Erythema nodosum sometimes occurs. Pressure or 
any irritation of the skin gives rise at once to tran- 
sient congestion from vaso-motor paralysis of the skin 
capillaries. 

In some of the lower animals a usual feature is 
redema of certain parts of the body, especially the 
sheath of the penis, the under surface of the abdomen, 
and the neck. Similar though less extensive redemas 
occur in man, in whom they are most apparent about 
the face and about the site of the erythema. In 
many instances there is a general fullness of the 
features, which, together with concomitant flushing of 
the face, is apt to convey a false impression of sound 
health. 

Neuralgic pains, cramps, formication, and parses- 
thesise of different kinds are not uncommon. In two 
of my European cases recurring orchitis, accompanied 
by an increase of parasites in the blood, was a feature. 
Painful local inflammatory swellings, which after a 
time subside without suppuration, I have seen in 
three cases ; periostitis of tibiae once. Irido-cyclitis 
and choroiditis are sometimes met with. 

In most cases the spleen is enlarged, sometimes 
enormously enlarged, the swelling fluctuating with 
the fever. The liver also may be enlarged. As the 
patients affected with trypanosomiasis are usually the 
subjects of malarial disease, it is not always possible 
to say whether the splenic enlargement is entirely 
or partly attributable to the trypanosome. 

According to Greggio, trypanosoma infection is 
not as a rule transmitted to the fostus ; nevertheless, 
the abortion-rate in the infected is increased from the 
normal 7 per cent, in Congo natives to 31*7 per cent., 
and the infant mortality from 29 per cent, to 50 per 
cent. 



x] SLEEPING-SICKNESS STAGE 173 

Death from intercurrent disease, or from rapidly 
developing cerebral implication causing convulsion, 
the status epilepticus, coma, etc., may supervene at 
any stage of trypanosomiasis. Usually the case 
gradually drifts into the stage known as "sleeping 
sickness."* 

Sleeping sickness. The condition known as 
sleeping sickness may be regarded as the terminal 
stage of trypanosoma infection. Sometimes it ex- 
hibits acute features, sometimes it is exceedingly 
chronic. From the commencement of the infection 
to the development of this terminal stage, in a propor- 
tion of instances an interval of many years, possibly 
seven, may elapse. In the majority of cases the march 
of events is much more rapid. The characteristic 
terminal symptoms depend on implication of the 
nervous system either by the parasite itself or by 
its toxins. 

According to Low and Castellani, the average 
duration of this stage of trypanosomiasis in the 
African is from four to eight months, not infre- 
quently less ; very chronic cases with a course of 
more than a year's duration are rare. Other ob- 
servers refer to cases running on for three years, or 
even longer, and presenting occasionally temporary 
ameliorations. 

Generally the first indications of the oncoming 
of sleeping sickness are merely an accentuation of 
the debility and languor usually associated with 
trypanosoma infection. There is a disinclination to 
exertion; a slow, shuffling gait; a morose, vacant 
expression ; a relaxation of features ; a hanging of the 
lower lip ; a puffiness and drooping of the eyelids ; 
a tendency to lapse into sleep or a condition simu- 
lating sleep ; a slowness in answering questions ; a 
shirking of the day's task. Dull heada*che is generally 
present. Later there may occur fibrillary twitching of 
muscles, especially of the tongue, and tremor of the 
hands, more rarely of the legs, indicating a definite 

* It is customary to state that the development of the sleeping- 
sickness stage in tiypanosomiasis concurs with and is dependent 
on the entrance of the parasite into the cerebro-spinal canal. 



174 TRYPANOSOMIASIS [CHAP. 

implication of the motor centres.* By this time 
the patient has taken to bed, or he lies about in 
a corner of his hut, indifferent to everything going 
on around him, but still able to speak and take 
food if brought to him. He never spontaneously 
engages in conversation or even asks for food. As 
torpor deepens he forgets even to chew his food, 
falling asleep perhaps in the act of conveying it to his 
mouth, or with the half-masticated bolus still in his 
cheek. Nevertheless, such food as he can be got to 
take is digested and assimilated. Consequently, if he 
is properly nursed, at this stage there may be no 
general wasting. As time goes on he begins to lose 
flesh, tremor of hands and tongue becomes more 
marked, and convulsive or choreic movements may 
occur in the limbs or in limited muscular areas. 
Sometimes these convulsions are followed by local 
temporary paralysis. Sometimes there is rigidity of 
the cervical muscles and retraction of the head. Bed- 
sores tend to form ; the lips become swollen, and the 
saliva dribbles from the mouth. Gradually the lethargy 
deepens, the body wastes, the bedsores extend, the 
sphincters relax, and finally the patient dies comatose 
or sinks from slowly advancing asthenia. Possibly 
he succumbs to convulsions, hyperpyrexia, pneumonia, 
dysentery, or other intercurrent condition. 

The manifestations described are subject to con- 
siderable variations. Mania is not uncommon ; delu- 
sions may present themselves, or psychical and phy- 
sical symptoms not unlike those of general paralysis 
of the insane are developed. 

During the whole course of the nervous stage of 
trypanosomiasis the other symptoms already described 
as characteristic of the infection may be in evidence. 
The knee-jerks, though lost towards the end, are active 
at first ; the fundus oculi is normal ; the sphincters, 
until towards the end, are controlled ; the urine is 
normal, and the bowels, although generally tending 
to constipation, act with more or less regularity. 

* In German East Africa, out of 55 patients in the last stages 
of the disease only 5 had sleep symptoms. Exophthalmos was 
noted 16 times. 



x] 



MORTALITY 



175 



Mortality. Although spontaneous recovery may 
take place in the early stages of trypanosomiasis, when 
the disease has arrived at the stage of sleeping sick- 
ness death, it is believed, is inevitable. Corre has 
told us how native villages in Senegambia have been 
depopulated. What has occurred on the Congo, in 
Angola, and recently in Uganda, bears out this esti- 
mate of the gravity of the disease when it appears 




Fig. 49. Transverse section of vessel in the brain in a case of sleeping 
sickness. (From photo after Bettencourt.) 

in epidemic form. We know that many islands on 
the Victoria Nyanza have been completely depopulated ; 
and if it be true for a large part of the country, 
as Bruce has shown to be the case at Entebbe and 
its neighbourhood, namely, that 30 per cent, of the 
population harbour trypanosomes, the outlook for 
Uganda and neighbouring countries is grave indeed. 
The population of the implicated districts of Uganda, 
originally about 300,000, was reduced in six yenrs 
to 100,000 by sleeping sickness. 



176 TRYPANOSOMIASIS [CHAP. 

Morbid anatomy (Fig. 49). No gross lesions 
of the nerve centres, or of any other organ, have been 
described as invariably present; but in every case 
indications, principally microscopical, of an extensive 
me ningo - encephalitis can be demonstrated. In a 
proportion of instances congestion of the meninges, 
effusion of lymph, increase and turbidity of cerebro- 
spinal fluid, are found. In all cases, as first pointed 
out by Mott, there is an extensive small-cell infiltra- 
tion of the perivascular lymphatic tissue throughout 
the brain, cord, and meninges, varying in amount in 
different cases and in different anatomical regions. 
This, the essential pathological feature of sleeping 
sickness, recalls the very similar condition in general 
paralysis of the insane. 

The nervous elements exhibit secondary degenera- 
tion changes. 

Similar changes are described by Mott in the ner- 
vous system in dourine, and chronic trypanosomiasis 
in the monkey. Mott has also pointed out that the 
lymphatic tissues throughout the body are similarly 
affected. 

Bettencourt and other Portuguese observers, as well as 
Castellani, have described a diplococcus in the brain in 
sleeping sickness. This organism is in no sense causally re- 
lated to the disease ; it must be regarded merely as a terminal 
and non-essential epiphenomenon. Similarly, Filaria perstans 
(which at one time, in consequence of considerations of fre- 
quency of concurrence and geographical distribution, was 
regarded as being possibly the cause of the disease), the various 
intestinal worms, and Sc/iistosomum h&matobium, though often 
met with in sleeping sickness, are present only as accidental 
concurrences. 

Diagnosis. Chronic irregular fever, more espe- 
cially if associated with enlarged cervical glands and, 
in the European, erythema multiforme, in a patient 
who has resided in tropical Africa at any time during 
the previous seven years, but more especially recently, 
suggests a tentative diagnosis of trypanosomiasis and 
detailed examination with this possibility in view. 
Diseases with which trypanosomiasis might be con- 
founded are malaria, kala-azar, pellagra, syphilis, 
leprosy, and, in its later stages, beriberi, 



x] DIAGNOSIS 177 

Malaria, syphilis and leprosy are easily excluded. 
As regards beriberi, there should be no difficulty if 
it be borne in mind that it is a disease of the peri- 
pheral, whilst trypanosomiasis is a disease of the 
central nervous system ; that beriberi is non-febrile, 
and that trypanosomiasis is febrile. Kala-azar and 
trypanosomiasis, especially in their earlier stages, 
may be more difficult to differentiate; but the 
presence of enlarged glands, local oadema, and ery- 
thema multiforme in trypanosomiasis, and their 
absence in kala-azar, suffice for distinction. Blood 
or gland-lymph examination, or, if this be negative, 
hepatic or splenic puncture, should establish the 
diagnosis. 

In pellagra the erythema is of a characteristic 
type. It is not ringed or fugitive as that of trypano- 
somiasis, and it affects principally the exposed parts 
of the body ; the disease is of a much more chronic 
character, and, instead of lethargy, the mental con- 
dition, if implicated, is more that of insanity 
melancholia alternating with mania and terminating 
in dementia. Further, in pellagra, the symptoms are 
aggravated at particular seasons spring and autumn. 

General paralysis of the insane,* cerebral tumour, 
forms of meningitis, have features in common with 
trypanosomiasis and must be considered in diagnosis. 

The microscopical diagnosis of trypanosomiasis is 
sometimes difficult. Anaemia as well as a large mono- 
nuclear leucocytosis occurs in trypanosomiasis. A 
wet blood preparation exhibits, even to the naked 
eye, a remarkable clumping of the red corpuscles. 
Held up to the light, such a preparation has a 
peculiar granular appearance, produced, as can be 
seen on microscopical examination, by agglomeration 
of the corpuscles into heaps and clusters, the usual 
rouleaux arrangement being absent. Such a disposi- 
tion of corpuscles is significant of, though not 
peculiar to, trypanosoma infection. As a rule, the 
parasites in the peripheral circulation are few in 
number, many fields having to be hunted before a 

* The Wassermann reaction is of little avail, as unfortunately 
the sera of most cases of trypanosomiasis give a positive result. 



178 TRYPANOSOMIASIS [CHAP. 

single example is discovered. Sometimes none can be 
found ; rarely are they abundant. In the same case 
they are sometimes present, sometimes absent. Centri- 
fuging the blood is not of much assistance. Dutton 
and Todd have emphasized the value of lymphatic- 
gland puncture and examination of the aspirated 
lymph, particularly in the earlier stages of the disease 
when the glands are soft and before they have become 
sclerosed ; then the trypanosomes are fairly abund- 
ant in the lymph. An ordinary hypodermic syringe 
suffices to aspirate a sufficiency of lymph. Films 
of the lymph so obtained are prepared and stained 
in the ordinary way. Cerebro-spinal fluid, obtained 
by lumbar puncture and centrifuged, affords another 
though not always a practicable means of finding the 
parasite. 

Failing discovery of the parasite by blood or 
lymph examination, recourse must be had to animal 
inoculation, 10 to 20 c.c. drawn from a vein being 
used for that purpose. Of the ordinary laboratory 
animals the most susceptible, and therefore reliable, 
are the guineapig, the rat, the dog, and certain 
monkeys Macacus and Cercopithecus. Such inocu- 
lations are of value as a test of recovery, as well as 
for diagnosis. 

The trypanosome is easily stained by most dyes ; 
convenient stains are those in use for malaria work. 
A sixth objective suffices to find the parasite. 

Treatment. Although something may be done 
to relieve symptoms and delay the fatal issue in the 
sleeping-sickness stage of trypanosomiasis, it is only 
in the earlier stages of the infection and by the per- 
sistent and energetic use of arsenic or antimony, or 
both, that a cure can be effected, and that in a pro- 
portion of cases only. Other drugs have been shown 
to have some influence on the trypanosome infe'ctions 
of the lower animals, but their therapeutic value in 
those of man is practically negligible. 

The effects of the administration of arsenic com- 
pounds on a heavily infected animal are very marked, 
after a preliminary and marked increase in the 
number of parasites in the peripheral circulation. 



x] TKEATMENT 179 

According to Thomas, in from three to seven hours 
an adequate dose of atoxyl causes the trypanosomes 
to become swollen, deformed, and almost motion- 
less, their cytoplasm taking on a peculiar ground- 
glass appearance, becoming vacuolated, and present- 
ing large dark granules. After seven or eight hours, 
coincidently with a marked increase of leucocytes 
especially phagocytes the parasites become rapidly 
fewer, and by the sixteenth or eighteenth hour com- 
pletely disappear. 

Arsenic, in the form of Fowler's solution or of 
orpiment, is sometimes given by the mouth ; but this 
way of administering the drug, especially in Europeans, 
has been quite superseded by the intramuscular injec- 
tion of a variety of relatively feebly toxic prepara- 
tions, including atoxyl, soamin, arseno-phenylglycin, 
arsacetin, salvarsan,* etc. 

Atoxyl, a meta-arsenic-anilin compound, intro- 
duced by Thomas, is probably the best of these, and 
the one most usually employed. Unfortunately it 
has one serious drawback in large doses it is apt 
to give rise to optic neuritis, arid consequent atrophy 
and blindness. The drug, therefore, must at once be 
stopped on the slightest threatening dimness of 
vision or congestion of the disc of such a calamity. 
Gastro-iiitestinal irritation and peripheral neuritis 
are also indications that it has to be suspended, at 
least temporarily, arid the subsequent dose reduced. 

Atoxyl is best given intramuscularly in 10 per 
cent, solution in sterile normal saline. The solution 
should be freshly made and free from precipitate. 
The individual dose should not exceed 7 or 8 gr. 
The practice as regards dosage and the times and 
frequency of administration varies. Some advocate 
a 7-gr. dose once every fifth day until symptoms sub- 
side. After a few weeks, similar courses, lasting for 
a month and repeated at short intervals, are kept up 
for at least one year. My practice has been to give 
an injection of 3 gr. every third day, and to keep this 

* Broden and Rodhain report good results on the Congo by 
intravenous injection of salvarsan ; they insist that it is only of 
benefit in those cases where invasion of the spinal cord is negatived 
by microscopical examination of the spinal fluid. 



180 TKYPANOSOMIASIS [CHAP. 

up uninterruptedly for two years, unless symptoms of 
arsenical poisoning show themselves, when the course 
is temporarily intermitted. I have seen excellent 
results from this method of giving atoxyl, both alone 
and in combination with tartar emetic by mouth or 
intravenously. 

Antimony in the form of sodium tartrate hypo- 
dermically has been shown by Plimmer and Thompson 
to cause, without the production of serious local 
irritation, almost immediate and often permanent 
disappearance of T. lewisi in infected rats. In two 
cases of trypanosomiasis in man in which I used this 
drug intramuscularly the consequent local pain and 
irritation (culminating in tissue necrosis) were so 
excessive that in this form the treatment had to 
be abandoned. One of the patients, however, con- 
tinued the drug by mouth to the extent of 1J 
to 2 gr. daily, very highly diluted, a little being 
given in all his food and drink, and along with 
atoxyl injections, for over two years. He appears to 
be quite well. 

The value of antimony (tartar emetic) in the 
treatment of trypanosomiasis is so marked that, if 
possible, it should be employed in every case. It 
is far too irritating for intramuscular injection. It 
can be given, freely diluted in normal saline, per 
rectum ; but the efficacy of this method of adminis- 
tration has not been proved. Though troublesome 
and not free from risk, the intravenous method is 
the best and the one now generally adopted. The 
dose is \ gr., gradually increased to 1^ gr., in 6 oz. 
or thereabouts of sterile normal saline. 

The solution must be slowly introduced, and great 
care taken that none of it escapes into the connective 
tissue surrounding the vein. Pain and swelling, and 
perhaps abscess, are apt to follow such an accident. 
With this in view it is well, before pouring the 
emetic solution into the receiver of the transfusing 
apparatus, to place in the latter an ounce or two of 
plain saline, and, when the emetic solution has nearly 
all run through, a similar quantity of saline. 

Not infrequently during the progress of the trans- 



x] TREATMENT 181 

fusion the patient is seized with a fit of coughing, or 
with feelings of constriction of the chest and faint- 
ness. If these are severe they may be regarded as 
indications for stopping the flow of fluid. Usually, 
though not always, the transfusion is followed by 
smart fever which soon subsides. A similar occur- 
rence may follow intramuscular injection of atoxyl, 
and has been attributed to toxins liberated from the 
trypanosomes killed by the drug. 

As with atoxyl, there are differences in the 
methods of employing antimony injections. Some 
give them daily in courses of fifteen days at in- 
tervals of fifteen days ; others, once a week ; others, 
again, according to indications supplied by tem- 
perature and the microscopical examination of the 
blood. After the short fever which may ensue, the 
administration of antimony is usually followed by 
marked relief of symptoms. 

Unless contraindicated, atoxyl and antimony 
treatment should be combined or alternated. One 
or both should be instituted immediately the diag- 
nosis of trypanosomiasis is established. 

As pointed out by Ehrlich, certain strains of 
trypanosomes are "arsenic- fast," that is, they resist 
the action of the drug a property which becomes 
hereditary and is continued in sub- inoculations into 
the lower animals. This undoubtedly accounts for 
the failure of arsenical treatment in a large pro- 
portion of cases. Presumably there are strains 
having a similar resisting power to antimony. As 
the atoxyl-fast trypanosomes may respond to anti- 
mony, and vice versa, both drugs should be employed 
in every case. In the face of so grave a disease 
great risks are justified. 

Recently, Daniels and Newham report favourably 
on treatment of Rhodesian trypanosomiasis by intra- 
muscular injections of 30 minims of Martindale's 
injectio antimonii oxidi given twice daily and kept 
up for some time. The injections are painless and 
cause no necrosis. This method of giving antimony 
is worth further trial. The dose mentioned is equiva- 
lent to *V gr. of tartar emetic. 



182 TRYPANOSOMIASIS [CHAP. 

According to Laveran, Roudsky, Kudicke, and Werbitzski, 
at times the acquired drug resistance is accompanied by a 
change in the morphology of the trypanosome. In T. bmcei 
this resistance to parafuchsin and oxazine is accompanied by a 
disappearance of the blepharoplast, and this feature persists on 
sub-inoculation in untreated animals (even as far as the 140th 
sub-inoculation), but is lost immediately the trypanosome is 
passed through the appropriate definitive host. 

In the treatment of trypanosomiasis, concurrently 
with the use of drugs, every effort should be made 
to keep the patient in good general health. Rest, 
warmth, and residence in a cool and healthy climate, 
the systematic use of quinine for any concurrent 
malarial infection, and the avoidance of fatigue and 
everything that might depress, should be insisted on. 

The idea of cure must not be entertained until the 
patient has been free from all symptoms for many 
months, nor until the repeated injection of several 
cubic centimetres of his blood has failed to induce 
trypanosomiasis in susceptible animals. 

Immunisation. Attempts have been made to 
procure a curative and immunizing serum, but, 
although a certain amount of success has attended 
these efforts in respect to the lower animals, as 
regards man they have failed. 

Prophylaxis. The indications for prophylaxis 
are based principally on the habits of Glossina 
palpalis and the existing conditions as regards the 
presence of the infection in a locality. 

In endemic regions the fly areas should be 
located and avoided. If such regions have to be 
traversed the journey should be made during dark 
nights when tse-tse flies do not feed, or with such 
precautions as are used by the natives for the 
protection of their cattle in nagana-infected spots. 
Those who are compelled to live in tse-tse regions 
should have their houses and persons carefully 
guarded against the fly. Manifestly it is desirable 
whether it is feasible is another question to 
avoid localities in which the natives are affected, and 
to prevent the infection of the local tse-tse flies by 
surrounding people having trypanosomes in their blood 
with mosquito netting ; or by other measures, such as 



x] PROPHYLAXIS 183 

removing them from the usually very limited fly 
area to some neighbouring fly-free spot. Movements 
of infected individuals towards hitherto uninfected 
countries must necessarily be attended with great 
risk of the introduction of the disease. Whether 
such movements can be prevented in savage lands 
depends greatly on local circumstances. Wherever 
possible they should be prevented. Dutton and Todd 
suggest that an easily ascertained condition, more or 
less general in trypanosomiasis, namely, enlargement 
of the cervical glands, should be employed in elimi- 
nating dangerous individuals. Many years ago slave- 
dealers adopted such a method to shield themselves 
from loss. As a rough test it has some value. But 
in some cases of trypanosomiasis the glands are not 
appreciably enlarged at all times. Moreover, as they 
are often enlarged in other conditions, an injustice 
might be done in enforcing such a measure. 

Hodges and his colleagues in Uganda inform us 
that the fly ground proper is always a very narrow 
strip indeed, not more than ten to fifteen yards, 
and always along the water's edge ; and that the 
insects very rarely extend their feeding beat beyond 
sixty yards of this, whether on the land side or 
on the water side. It is true they may follow with 
great persistency a man who has just passed through 
this narrow belt, for several hundred yards, rarely as 
far as half a mile ; but it is obvious that if the ten or 
fifteen yards at the water's edge be made unsuitable 
for the fly, as can readily be done by clearing it of 
jungle, there will soon be no flies to follow, and the 
place will become safe. Therefore, where feasible, fly 
spots, where there are landing-places, ferries, wells, 
or roads, should either be avoided altogether or be 
cleared of jungle for some yards to be safe, thirty 
from the water's edge. This is a practical measure of 
proved value in Uganda.* 

* Duke has tried the injection of prophylactic doses of arseuo- 
phenylglycin in the monkey and subsequent development of the 
trypanosome in the tse-tse fly. He finds that a monkey thus 
injected cannot be subsequently infected by a positive fly, and 
that the development of the trypanosome in the tse-tse fly is 
inhibited by imbibing drug -containing blood. 



184 TRYPANOSOMIASIS [CHAP. 

Brilliant results have attended the efforts of the 
Portuguese to combat sleeping sickness in the island 
of Principe, where the annual mortality from the 
disease amounted to 83 per thousand of the popula- 
tion, and the local industry (cocoa) was threatened 
with extinction. In addition to jungle clearing, 
drainage, blood examinations and segregation of in- 
fected, and destruction of possible animal reservoirs 
of the trypanosome, coolies, dressed in white and 
carrying on their backs a dark cloth smeared with 
bird-lime, were sent into the jungle, and every night 
the flies caught were removed and counted. In 
three years 470,000 glossinse were caught. As a 
consequence of this combination of sanitary measures 
the fly and the sleeping sickness were exterminated. 
Of course it was only the complete 'isolation and the 
limited size of the island that made such a result 
possible. 

Koch, from observations in Uganda, suggested 
that trypanosomiasis may be communicated by the 
male during coitus. The phenomena of dourine and 
recent animal experiments support the idea, although 
the experiments referred to indicate that the risk 
is not great. 

A. complete scientific prophylaxis can be indicated 
with certainty only when we have full knowledge (1) 
of the habits of the tse-tse flies and of the reasons 
for their restriction to very limited and apparently 
capriciously distributed areas ; (2) as to what verte- 
brates under natural conditions are normally hosts of 
T, gambiense. Experiment has shown that the glossina 
will bite any vertebrate, and that it can infect a large 
variety of mammals with the trypanosome. If this be 
the case in the laboratory it is reasonable to suppose 
that it is the case in nature also. Therefore, in the 
endemic regions of trypanosomiasis, the vertebrate 
fauna has to be reckoned with as a source and 
reservoir of infection. 

In Uganda and elsewhere, principally with a 
view of preserving the hitherto uninfected from try.p- 
anosome infection, Government removed the entire 
population of the Sesse Islands and neighbouring 






x] TKYPANOSOMA KHODESIENSE 185 

shore of Lake Victoria Nyanza to fly-free areas in 
the interior. It was hoped that, the human source 
of trypanosome supply being thus denied them, the 
tse-tse flies would cease to be infective. Unfortun- 
ately, this hope has been disappointed. Three years 
after depopulation of the districts involved, Bruce 
ascertained that the local flies could still convey 
the disease to laboratory animals. Manifestly, T. 
gambiense can flourish under natural conditions in 
vertebrates other than man. The large game is 
now regarded as a probable reservoir for T. gam- 
biense, as it is known to be for the T. brucei of 
nagana. 

The introduction of T. gambiense into other 
countries is a grave possibility. It is true that it 
must have been frequently introduced into America 
in the days of slave importation and that it did 
not spread there ; but as regards India and other 
Asiatic countries, which hitherto have had little or 
no communication with the West Coast of Africa, no 
introduction on a large scale has occurred, and we 
have no assurance that, if introduced, the parasite 
would not find some appropriate transmitter. Ac- 
cording to some authorities, nagana and surra are the 
same disease; if so, the causal trypanosome can be 
transmitted by blood-sucking flies other than the tse- 
tse. What holds good for T. evansi and T. brucei 
might equally apply to T. gambiense. Furthermore, 
the possibility of the introduction of the fly host of 
the trypanosome of sleeping sickness, G. palpalis, into 
other tropical countries must not be lost sight of. 

TRYPANOSOMA RHODESIENSB 

The discovery by Stephens and Fantham that the 
trypanosome found in sleeping-sickness cases origin- 
ating in Nyasaland and Rhodesia presented certain 
peculiarities when passed through the rat, that it was 
associated with a highly virulent and resistant form 
of the disease,* that animals immunized against T. 
gambiense succumbed to the Rhodesian trypanosome, 

* No enlargement of the lymphatic glands is said to occur in 
the victims of this infection. 



186 



TKYPANOSOMIASIS 



[CHAP. 



and especially, as proved by Kinghorn and Yorke, 
that it was transmitted by Glossina morsitans, justi- 
fies the conclusion that, if not a distinct species, 
Trypanogoina rhodesiense, as it has been named, is a 
very definite variety, and that in practice it must be 
regarded as such. 

In human blood (Fig. 50), T. rhodesiense is mor- 
phologically indistinguishable from T. gambiense ; but 
if it is passed through the rat a small but variable pro- 
portion of the parasites, especially the stumpy forms, 
will be seen to have their nuclei located posteriorly 
to the blepharoplast, that is to say, at the nori- 




Fig. 50. Trypanosoma rhodesieiise. (After Laveran.) 

l and 2, Normal forms in blood of man ; 3-6, various stages of posterior 
displacement of the nucleus ; 7, a dividing form. 

flagellar end of the organism. It also, as occasionally 
in man, exhibits a marked periodicity, disappearing 
from the blood-stream for weeks at a time. 

Glossina palpalis has not been met with in 
Rhodesia and Nyasaland ; its rdle as regards the 
trypanosome is filled by Glossina morsitans. 

According to Kinghorn and Yorke, the peculiari- 
ties in the range, distribution, and fly intermediary 
of T. rhodesiense receive their explanation in the 
circumstance that the developmental cycle is depen- 
dent on atmospheric temperature. High tempera- 
tures (75-85 F.) favour development in the fly, low 
temperatures (60- 70 F.) are against it. 



x] TRYPANOSOMA RHODESIENSE 187 

The same observers have ascertained that the 
large game of the country is a reservoir of the para- 
site. In view of this, Yorke has advocated as an 
experimental sanitary measure the extermination of 
this interesting fauna. Seeing that this terrible dis- 
ease is spreading, and that it has already crossed the 
Zambesi, that the range of G. morsitans extends as 
far south as Zululand, that this species of glossina 
is not so circumscribed topically as G. palpalis, and 
that it is believed to be in great measure dependent 
on these animals, the destruction or driving back of 
the large game in morsitans countries seems to be the 
only measure likely to avert what might otherwise 
prove to be an immense calamity. 

Later experiments by Bruce and his, co-workers 
have shown that T. brucei, when injected into rats, 
exhibits the same proportion of posterior-nucleated 
forms as T. rhodesiense. From this and other facts 
these observers suggest that T. rhodesiense is none 
other than T. brucei, that 37 per cent, of the wild 
game in the fly-country harbour pathogenic trypano- 
somes, and that the waterbuck, hartebeest, reedbuck, 
and duikerbuck are a source of danger to man. 

Taute, .who has recently carried out much research 
work 011 this important subject in Portuguese N~yasa- 
land, does not agree in all respects with the views of 
Kinghorn, Yorke, and Bruce. He points out that 
the trypanosomes in naturally infected game or 
domestic animals can be regarded as a potential cause 
of sleeping sickness only if they are actually shown 
to be pathogenic to man ; and he maintains that the 
wild game and domestic animals do not play any part 
in the spread of sleeping sickness, at all events in 
the sense of Kinghorn and Yorke. Merely to infect 
laboratory animals with a trypanosome morpho- 
logically identified with T. rhodesiense does not prove 
that this trypanosome is T. rhodesiense, or that the 
district from which the trypanosome came is a 
sleeping-sickness area. He says that in East Nyasa- 
land T. brucei can be distinguished from the trypano- 
some of sleeping sickness only and solely by the fact 
of its non-pathogenicity to man. Taute supports 



188 TKYPANOSOMIASIS [CHAP. 

these views by some very significant experiments. 
G. morsitans fed on animals infected with T. brucei 
were subsequently fed to two men ; the result was 
negative, though a number of control animals fed 
simultaneously died. Taute injected himself with 
2 c.c. of blood from a trypanosome-infected dog, the 
trypanosomes being of the Rhodesian type ; there 
was no bad effect. Fourteen days later he injected 
90 c.c. of his own blood into susceptible animals ; 
these animals did not become infected showing 
that the human organism has the power to kill this 
particular trypanosome. Whether Taute is right or 
wrong in his views, it must be conceded that he has 
the courage of his opinions. 

Atoxyl and antimony, generally so potent against 
T. gambiense infection, seem to be relatively power- 
less in the sleeping sickness of Rhodesia. 

TBYPANOSOMA CBUZI (SCHIZOTBYPANUM 
CBUZI) 

Chagas has shown that a form of trypanosomiasis, 
especially common in children, is endemic in parts of 
the state of Minas Geraes in Brazil, and that it is 
transmitted to man and the domestic animals by a 
species of bug, Lamus megistus (at first erroneously 
supposed to belong to the genus Conorhinus). Allied 
species and certain other biting insects appear to 
have the power of transmitting the infection, at all 
events under experimental conditions. 

Symptoms. The disease assumes a variety of 
aspects according to the organs more particularly 
affected by the parasite, individual susceptibility, and 
the occurrence of reinfection. It is frequently fatal, 
and in those who recover is apt to entail conditions, 
physical and mental, resembling cretinism." 

Chagas recognizes acute and chronic types. In 
the former, shortly (ten or more days) after the bite 
of the transmitting insect, which is painful, high 
fever supervenes together with enlargement of the 
thyroid gland, lymphatic glands (especially the cer- 
vical), spleen, and liver, myxoedematous swelling of 
the face, and transient oedemas in different parts of 



TRYPANOSOMA CRUZI 



189 



the body. There may be indications of meningo- 
encephalitis. These symptoms come and go during 
a variable period, and terminate either in death, or in 
recovery, or in the chronic form lasting for years. 





Pig. 51. Trypanosoina cruzi. (After Chagas.) 



Figs. 1-6. Forms in human blood 
' 1, Supposed endocorpusculi 

cells ; 5, 6, so-called male and female forms. 
in the nuiothelial cells o/ 
representation of the 



1,2, Supposed endocorpuscular forms ; 3, 4. trypanosomes adhering to red 



7 and 8. Schizogony in the nuiothelial cells of pulmonary vessels in man : 

(Diagrammatic representation of the pulmonary cycle, cyst formation 
and liberation of yo;ing trypano-omea. It is doubtful whether <J and ? 



cycles as described by Chapras rraliy exist.) 

9-14. Forms found in Lamus megixtus: 

9 and 10, Forms from midgut showing development of flagellum ; 10 and 11, 
forms from the hindgut; 12, simultaneous division of nucleus and centre 
some ; 13 and 14, forms from salivary gland, under a lower magnification. 



190 TRYPANOSOMIASIS [CHAP. 

In the chronic form there is well-marked enlarge- 
ment of the thyroid, with accompanying myxcede- 
matous symptoms, as loss of hair, mental debility, etc. 
The lymphatic glands are always enlarged. In some 
instances there is marked bronzing of the skin, as in 
Addison's disease, depending on implication of the 
suprarenal capsules. In others, where the brunt of 
the infection has fallen on the heart, there is great 
irregularity in the action of this organ. In yet others 
aphasia, ataxia, spasm, athetosis, tremor, or other 
nervous symptoms indicate that brain, or spinal cord, 
or both have become implicated. Generally there is 
a combination of several of these conditions. Through- 
out, an irregular fever comes and goes, and there is 
always pronounced anaemia. 

The chronic form is that most commonly en- 
countered in youths or adults ; it is probably carried 
on from infancy or childhood, or kept up by re- 
infection. 

The parasite. During the febrile attacks the 
parasite (Fig. 51) in variable numbers is to be found 
in the blood, free or, rarely, partially included in red 
blood-corpuscles (Chagas). It averages about 20/u 
in length and has the usual trypanosome characters. 
The undulating membrane is narrow and the nucleus 
and blepharoplast are large. It is easily cultivated. 

After ingestion by the insect intermediary the 
trypanosomes multiply in the gut. Some pass out 
with the faeces, which thus become infective if inocu- 
lated into a wound, or if applied to a mucous surface 
as the conjunctival sac (Brumpt). This, however, is 
not the normal way in which the infection is con- 
veyed to man. In the midgut of the lamus, crithidia 
forms and, at a later stage, minute trypanosoma 
forms develop. It is the latter that, passing into the 
salivary glands, become the agents by which the 
infection is established. Eight days elapse after feed- 
ing on infected blood before the bug itself becomes 
infective. 

Arrived in the human body the parasite multi- 
plies, not in the blood (dividing forms are never 
found there), but in the cells of various organs, 



x] TRYPANOSOMA CRUZI 191 

including the striped muscular fibres, especially of 
the heart, back, and lower extremities; also in the 
bone marrow, the thyroid gland, suprarenal capsules, 
nerve fibres and cells, testes, connective tissue, and 
other organs. Arrived in these it assumes a leish- 
mania form (Fig. 56), divides and subdivides, dis- 
tending the including cell till this becomes a mere 
cyst in which the parasites revert to the trypano- 
soma form. The cyst then bursts and the trypano- 
somes escape into the tissues, ultimately finding their 
way into the blood concurrently with an attack of 
fever. This is the form of schizogony by which the 
infection is kept up in the individual. 

According to Chagas the gamete providing for 
the exogenous cycle in the insect arises from certain 
trypanosomes which, lodging in the lungs, lose their 
flagella and, approximating their extremities, form a 
ring, and then a sphere in which the nucleus divides, 
giving rise to eight daughter spheres. These elongate 
and, escaping, enter the red blood-corpuscles and be- 
come male and female trypanosomes, thus providing 
for the exogenous cycle in the insect (Fig. 51). 

In the insect the parasite is not transmitted here- 
ditarily, but the nymph, as well as the mature lamus, 
is capable of harbouring and transmitting the para- 
site. In the endemic districts all the bugs and many 
domestic animals are infected. Chagas considers that 
the armadillo, whose burrows are haunts of lamus, 
is the normal host of the parasite and a principal 
reservoir for the infection.* 

Pathological anatomy. Inflammatory and 
consequent degenerative changes, the result of the 
presence of the parasite, are in evidence in most of 
the affected organs. Under the microscope the cyst- 
like distended cells containing the parasite are to be 
found, particularly in the striated muscular fibres, 
and especially in those of the heart. The thyroid is 
enlarged, often sclerosed, with cystic cavities contain- 
ing colloid material. The lymphatic glands and the 
spleen are also enlarged, the liver is fatty, serous 

* Brumpt has recently observed development of T. cruzi in 
Citn$x lectularius and C. boucti. 



192 TRYPANOSOMIASIS [CHAP. 

effusions in pleura and peritoneum are common, and 
there may be evidences of meningo-encephalitis with 
infiltration about the vessels. 

Prophylaxis This should be directed princi- 
pally to the suppression of the insect concerned 
Lamus megistus (Plate III.). It is a large black insect 
belonging to the family Reduviidse, with numerous 
symmetrically arranged red markings ; it is well known 
to the natives, who call it " barbeiro." The nymphs 
bite and can convey the infection, but the adults, 
having wings, are more dangerous. During the day- 
time they live in the grass walls and roofs of the 
dirty native houses, coming out after dark in search 
of their food blood. Their habits indicate better 
and cleanlier housing, sleeping off the ground, and 
protection by mosquito-netting. 

Treatment. We know of no specific remedy. 
Arsenicals and antimony have failed in experimental 
animals. Treatment, therefore, must be on general 
lines. 

OTHER FORMS OF TRYPANOSOMIASIS IN MAN 

Seeing that most of the trypanosomes hitherto 
studied experimentally are capable of living in a 
variety of vertebrate hosts, it seems probable that 
other members of this group of parasites, in addition 
to T. gambiense, T. rhodesiense, and T. eruzi, may 
find in man at times a suitable host. Apparently 
T. lewisi, T. evansi, and T. brucei do not generally 
thrive in man, but that circumstance does not 
warrant the inference that he is completely immune 
against these and all other species. 

CERTAIN OP THE COMMONER TRYPANOSOMES 
OP MAMMALS 

As the subject of trypanosomiasis in man is one 
of great and growing importance in tropical patho- 
logy, it is desirable that the student should have 
some practical acquaintance with the appearance 
and diagnosis of this type of parasite before he is 
called upon to deal with it in actual practice. I 
have thought it advisable, therefore, to give a short 




Lamus megistus. (After Chagas.) 

PLATE ill. 



x] TRYPANOSOMES OF MAMMALS 193 

account of some of the corresponding infections of 
certain of the lower animals, such as, when the 
opportunity offers, might supply him with the neces- 
sary material .for study. If infected horses, oxen, 
dogs, etc., are not always available, the rat is to be 
met with everywhere, and can be relied on in most 
places to afford the student opportunities for acquir- 
ing much useful knowledge about trypanosomes, as 
well as experience in their microscopical diagnosis. 

It must be remembered that T. brucei, T. gam- 
biense, and T. evansi exhibit a wide range of patho- 
genicity for many species of animals. 




Fig. 52. Trypanosoines of mammals, x 1,000. 
o, T. equinum ; b, T. brucei ; c, T. eauiperdum ; d, T. lewisi ; e, T. evansi. 

Our knowledge of the trypanosomes is still incom- 
plete. Any attempt, therefore, at classification must 
be merely tentative. Bruce's classification of the 
pathogenic African species (p. 194), founded on very 
large experience in the field, has the merit of being 
of practical value. It is based mainly on three 
points morphology, location of development of in- 
fective form in the tse-tse fly, and action on animals. 
Bruce divides the parasites into three groups (A) 
T. brucei group, (B) T. pecorum group, (c) T. vivax 
group. 

Of the tr3 r panosomes of mammals the best known and most 
important are the following (Fig. 52) : 

T. lewisi (Kent, 1879) is a parasite of rats (Mus decu- 
manus, M. ratlus, M. rufescens}. Similar parasites in hamsters, 
guineapigs, rabbits, etc., probably belong to different species ; 
it has been held that T. lewisi is not capable of living in these 
animals, but subsequent work seems to contradict this. 

On account of the facility with which it can be procured in 
most countries, T. lewisi offers the best opportunity for study 
of the genus. In many places from 2 to 50 per cent, of the 
local rats harbour it, often in such abundance that, viewed 

H 











, 




H 





1 


Is ! 




i 
P 


If 

1 


<M 

b& 
N 

1 

~~ 


siJ! 

0^^ 

i7U 

OJ-W S fl 


02 




fl 


1 


^i 5 


H 










rRYPANOSOM 


DEVELOPMENT IN 

T8E-TSE 


Completed in 
salivary glands 


Completefl in pro- 
boscis ard hypo- 
pharynx. 
Never found in 
salivary glands 


Completed in pro- 
boscis and hypo- 
pharynx. 
Never found in 
salivary glands 


fc 


H 

c. 






."2 


<1 


w 


? 


* 


d 


Q 


B 


'^3 


'J3 




5 


E 


o 


< 


1 


fe 


s 








4 




UNDULATING 
MEMBRANE 


ilS 
". 


O 


II 

111 

11 












H 


*s 


B" *.| 1 o 


1*1 


si 


P! 

h 


eH 

23 

S 


iliil 1 

DC ca *S a 


jll 


to ~ 


o 










1 
g 


H 

3 


ta 


i! 


il 
11 


< 


in 


C 00 60 


tc 


to 


Q 


O 


i 






fc 







0= J 





s 


B 


&~j|| 


ill 


|1 


3 





||||| 


ill 


|| 


Q 




s " 


c 




cc 




^; 




"H 


a ' 
a e 


d 
o 


a 


o 
p 

P5 




! 1 


P| 


.1 

!, 


W 


i y 


aj| 


l^lg 

.{KfiiS 

^eh^t; 




&D ^ ^ ><;0 


g ! 


S bo 




||{iii 


o a 

c^ 


a 

^'B 






s s 


SO 




1.5 


So 


C. f 

11 




ES 


fe"" e 






i 



TRYPANOSOMES OF MAMMALS 195 

through the microscope, the blood seems to seethe and quiver 
with the rapidly moving parasites. Specimens are easily pro- 
cured by snipping off with scissors the tip of the rat's tail 
and dabbing the cut surface on the slip. 

T. lewui measures, on an average, including the flagellum, 
24-25 fj. by To /t; the posterior extremity is said to be more 
pointed than in the other known mammalian trypanosomes. 
The nucleus is situated in the anterior half or third of the 
body ; the cytoplasm is very clear and free from granules. 
There is evidence that it is conveyed from rat to rat by 
the rat-louse and rat-fleas, which are now known to be its true 
alternative host. It is not, apparently, transmitted by the 
salivary glands of the insect, but multiplies in the hindgut of 
the flea, and, after assuming various crithidial forms, escapes 
in the excreta, and is thus inoculated into the wound made 
by the flea's proboscis. 

In experimental rats it has been found possible to transmit 
infection to other rats through the unbroken skin by rubbing 
on cultures of this trypanosome. 

It is generally held that T. lewisi is non-pathogenic. Cer- 
tainly, infected rats usually exhibit a remarkable tolerance 
towards this parasite, but occasionally they do sicken and die. 

The fact that the rat is susceptible to laboratory inoculation 
with the trypanosomes of man and cattle indicates the possi- 
bility of finding other species of trypanosomes in the blood of 
wild rats. 

T. evansi (Steel, 1885); length, 22-30 /x; breadth, 1-2-5 /*. 
This parasite was discovered in 1880 by Griffith Evans in the 
Punjab, in the blood of horses suffering from surra, a disease 
which the natives of India ascribe to the bite of certain horse- 
flies (Tabainda). T. evansi is not limited to horses and mules, 
but attacks also camels, elephants, buffaloes, and dogs. Experi- 
mentally it has been transferred to monkeys, rabbits, rats, mice, 
and guineapigs ; in nature, infection of dogs by feeding on 
animals dead of surra has frequently been observed. It has a 
very wide distribution in Southern Asia and in Malaya. It 
has been recently imported into Mauritius and the Philippines. 
We have no positive knowledge as to the definitive host or 
hosts of this trypanosome. Various blood-sucking flies belong- 
ing to the genera Stomoxys, Hcematobia, and Tabanus'ha.ve been 
incriminated. In Mauritius the epidemic is thought to have 
been spread by Stomoxys nigra. 

The disease known as "Mbori," occurring among drome- 
daries coming from the Sahara into the Soudan (Timbuctoo, 
etc.), which is apparently also conveyed by a tabanus, is 
considered both by Vallee and Panisset, and by Laveran and 
Mesnil, to be a milder form of surra, the parasite which causes 
it being a "variety" of T. evansi. 

T. briicei (T.pecaudi] (Plimmer and Bradford, 1899); 
length, 28-30 p.; breadth, 1-5-2-5 /*. The anterior extremity is 
usually bluntly rounded. The cytoplasm often contains in the 
posterior half large, deeply staining granules. This parasite 



196 TRYPANOSOMIASIS [CHAP. 

was discovered by Bruce in 1895 in the blood of horses suffer- 
ing from nagana, the fly disease of Africa. The normal inter- 
mediary hosts of T. brucei are probably some of the African 
Antelopidce , such as the wildebeest (Catoblepas gnu], the koodoo 
(Strepsiceros capensis^), and the bushbuck (Tragelaphus scriptus 
sylvaticus], perhaps also buffaloes. Bruce's researches and 
experiments led to the belief that the disease was transmitted 
in a mechanical way by Glossina morsitans. Mr. Austen has 
shown that the tse-tse -flies with which Bruce made his experi- 
ments belonged chiefly, if not entirely, to the species G. pallid- 
ipes, and now we know that other glossinae, such as G. fu&ca, 
may also convey the disease, and that the rOle played by these 
flies is probably that of true alternative host. The develop- 
ment in the fly is identical with that described for gambiense. 
The fly does not become infective till the eighteenth, and 
remains so till the sixty-sixth day, or probably longer. 

With the exception of certain strains of donkey and goat, 
all domesticated mammals hitherto experimented with, on ino- 
culation with blood containing the parasite, acquire nagana. 

After inoculation of an animal with nagana blood, in from 
one to two days trypanosomes begin to appear in the blood, 
and persist therein till death, which, in the vast majority 
of species, is inevitable. In some species (rats, mice) the 
trypanosomes become very numerous; in others (the rabbit, 
guineapig) they are scanty and may be hard to find with the 
microscope, although their presence may readily be proved by 
the symptoms and by injection of the suspected blood into the 
rat. After inoculation death occurs in rats and mice in from 
two to three days, in rabbits in from five to twelve days, in 
guineapigs in about fifty days (extremes twenty to 183 days), 
in dogs in from twenty-two to twenty-six days, in monkeys in 
fifteen days, in horses and donkeys in from one week to three 
months, in goats and sheep in several months, and in cattle in 
from one week to six months, a proportion recovering. Thus re- 
sistance varies within wide limits. 

In those animals in which death occurs within a few days 
of infection the parasites become very numerous, and, after one 
or two oscillations of temperature, death occurs suddenly. In 
those animals in which death is delayed a very striking 
cachexia is established. There is a chronic recurring fever, the 
numbers of parasites visible in the blood being greatest during 
the febrile accessions ; there is also a peculiar firm oedema from 
infiltration of coagulable lymph into the connective tissue of 
the neck, abdomen, sheath of penis, genitals, and limbs ; with 
intense anaemia, wasting, skin eruptions, and, often, blindness. 
On post-mortem examination the spleen is in most instances 
found to be enlarged, ecchymoses may be present in various 
viscera, and the lymphatic glands corresponding to the point of 
inoculation are swollen. 

T. brucei is considered by Bruce and several other observers 
to be the cause of Rhodesian sleeping sickness, and therefore 
identical with T. rltodesienst*. 



x] TKYPANOSOMES OF MAMMALS 107 

Other trypanosomes, more or less allied to T. firucei, and 
possibly representing only varieties of the same parasite, have 
been observed in German East Africa and Togoland among 
cattle, horses, and other animals. Again, the disease known 
as "aino," which occurs in Somaliland among dromedaries, 
and which Brumpt believes to be transmitted by G. longipennis, 
locally termed the ' ' aino," is probably a variety of nagana. 

T. equiperdlim (T. rougeti) (Don., 1901); length, 
25-28 fj. ; breadth, 1^-2 JJL ; differs from T. brucei in not having 
prominent granules in the cytoplasm. Ifc is the cause of a 
peculiar disease in stallions, brood mares, and donkeys, occur- 
ring in South Europe, North Africa, Chile, and probably in the 
United States, and known as dourine or mal du co'it. The 
latter name it has received from the fact that, as a rule, the 
infection is communicated through coitus. It is not yet 
certain whether the parasites have any alternate insect host 
into which they must pass at intervals in order to complete the 
life-cycle. Fleas have been suggested as possible intermediaries. 

Symptoms appear in from ten to twenty days after infection. 
They ^begin in the case of the stallion with oedema of the 
sheath and some inflammation of the end of the penis and 
discharge from the urethra; in the mare there is a similar 
oedema of one or both labia and a muco-purulent vaginitis. 
Concurrently with increase of these symptoms oedema of the 
limbs and of the abdominal walls sets in, together with pro- 
gressive anaemia, wasting, muscular weakness, flexion of the 
fetlocks, and skin eruptions. The appetite is preserved. 
Fever, except at the outset (40 C.), rarely exceeds 39 C. 
The disease continues for many months four to ten. Before 
death weakness increases, the cornea may ulcerate, and there 
may be complete paraplegia from softening of the spinal cord. 

The trypanosome of dourine occurs in the blood, but in 
numbers so scanty that to communicate the infection with 
certainty by this medium it may be necessary to inject from 
10 to 15 c.c. Hence the improbability of infection by biting 
insects. On the other hand, it occurs in great abundance in 
the cedematous tissues, in the skin lesions, in the lymph, and 
in the discharge from the genitals. 

In marked contrast with T. brucei, T. eqniperdum is but 
feebly pathogenic to rats and mice, some of the former being 
quite refractory. In the rabbit and dog the disease resembles 
that in the horse, and is communicable by coitus. Monkeys, 
goats, sheep, and bovines are said to be insusceptible. 

Although in many respects the parasites of dourine and 
nagana resemble each other, the differences in susceptibility 
of various animals as regards the two parasites indicate specific 
difference. 

T. eqilinum (Voges, 1902) ; length, 22-55 ^ ; breadth, 
l'5-2 /*. This parasite is clearly distinguished from the above- 
mentioned species by the very minute size of its blepharoplast. 
The cytoplasm contains granules, but not so numerous as in 
T. brncei. Its normal vertebrate host is probably the capy- 



198 TRYPANOSOMIASIS [CHAP. 

bara, Hydrochcerus capybara, a large water mammal of South 
America belonging to the family Caviidce. Nothing positive 
is known about its transmitting agent ; Stomoxys calcitrans 
and Stomoxys nebulosa have been blamed. T. equinum causes 
in horses a deadly disease known as "mal de caderas " in 
Brazil, Argentina, and Central South America. 

X, Ilicileri. Laveran (1902) reports the discovery by 
Theiler in the Transvaal of a trypanosome twice the size of any 
of the foregoing, and peculiar to cattle ; so far, other domestic 
animals have been found to be immune. Theiler regarded it 
as producing an acute pernicious anaemia without poiki- 
locytosis, and with only slight accompanying fever. He 
considers " that there exists a natural immunity in cattle 
against this trypanosome." Theiler believed that the trans- 
mitter of this parasite was a spider-fly, Hippobosca rufipes. 
Another species, H. maculata, recently imported with cavalry 
from India, is believed to be aiding in spreading the parasite. 
The disease is known as " galziekte," or bile-sickness, in the 
Transvaal. More recently, however, Theiler has altered his 
views, and now believes the disease to be due to a small piro- 
plasm, Anaplasma marginale. 

THE TSE-TSE FLIES (Plate IV.) 

(Genus Glossina, Wiedemann, 1830) 

The Glossinte are sombre-coloured, narrow-bodied flies from 
about 8 to 12 mm. long, with a thick proboscis (i.e. proboscis 
enclosed by the palpi) projecting horizontally in front of the 
head. Their wings are large, of a brownish hue, and present 
a characteristic venation (Plate IV.) somewhat resembling that 
of the warble-fly (Hypoderma). The most striking peculiarity 
in the wing is the course of the fourth longitudinal vein, which 
about the middle of the wing bends abruptly upwards to meet 
the short and very oblique anterior transverse vein ; here, 
describing a right angle, it runs obliquely downwards to meet 
the posterior transverse vein, and then turns upwards to 
reach the margin of the wing well in front of the apex. When 
the tse-tse is at rest its wings overlap on the back, crossing 
each other like the blades of a pair of scissors. This rest- 
ing attitude of the wings, besides giving the fly a peculiar 
elongated appearance, renders it readily distinguishable from 
those other blo'od-sucking diptera with which it might be 
confounded, such as the stinging-fly (Stomoxys} and the cleg 
(Hamatopota). Stomoxys is smaller in size, has short palpi not 
protecting the proboscis, and its wings diverge at an angle 
when resting. Hcematopota presents prominent antennae and 
its wings are tectiform, i.e. they meet together at the base like 
the roof of a house and diverge slightly at the tips. In some 
species of Glossina the abdomen is crossed by sharply defined 
dark brown stripes, interrupted at the middle line. In the 
males, beneath the end of the abdomen, the external genitalia 
form a conspicuous knob-like protuberance which renders the 
sexes easily distinguishable. 





Tse-tse flies. 
1. Glossina palpalis ; 2, G. morsitans. 

PLATE IV. 



x] TSE-TSE FLIES 199 

The palpi are long, slightly grooved on their inner sides, and 
closely applied to the proboscis, which they almost entirely 
conceal, the only uncovered portion being a peculiar large 
bulb-like expansion at the base. The proboscis consists of 
three parts (Fig. 54), labrum, hypopharynx, and labium. 

The genus Glossina belongs to the family MUSCID.E. The 
nearest related genera are Stomoxys, Lyperosia, Hamatobia; but 
on account of its limitation to Africa, its peculiar structural 
features (bulb at the basis of proboscis, remarkable male 
genitalia, characteristic venation of wings), and its aberrant 
mode of reproduction, it presents a marked individuality.* 

The genus at present comprises fourteen species, though 
this number must not be considered final, as new species are 
discovered from time to time. Austen arranges the genus 
into four groups. (See the Table on p. 200. ) 

Distribution. With the exception of one species, 
G. tachinoides, which occurs in the vicinage of Aden, tse-tse 
flies are confined to continental Africa. Some species, such 
as G. fusca and G. morsitans, have a very wide range through- 
out the greater part of intertropical Africa. G. palpalis is also 
widely distributed, ranging from the Senegal to Angola on the 
west, and throughout the Lualaba-Congo system to the Victoria 
Nyanza, Tanganyika, and Upper Nile at least as far north 
as Moolo in the Soudan. Glossina morsitans extends south 
in Bechuanaland, North-Eastern Transvaal, and Zululand. G. 
longipalpis ranges through West Africa as far south-west as 
the Senegal and south to the Katanga district on the Congo. 
G. pallidipes is found throughout East Africa from Zululand 
to the northern boundary of East Africa. Other species 
appear to be more restricted. G. longipennis is found in 
Somaliland and adjacent regions ; G. tachinoides has a wide 
range in tropical Africa ; G. pallicera ranges to the Ivory 
Coast ; G. fusca ranges from Sierra Leone to Uganda ; G. 
brevipalpis is common in South, Central, and East Africa ; 
G. caliginea is found in Southern Nigeria. Knowledge of their 
topographical distribution is an important matter. The Glos- 
sing are never found on mountains; they are seldom seen 
above 3,000 feet; they are absent from extensive plains or 
other open places ; they are rarely found in close cultivation. 
Their usual habitat is in the neighbourhood of open water 
along the banks of rivers, brooks, and springs, round the 
coasts of lakes, on low riverine islands, in swamps and mires, 
with open pools and sandy banks, especially at the foot of 

* Prof. Newstead has (1912) adopted a classification of species 
of glossina based on a study of the male genitalia, which iu this 
genus are characteristic. If macerated in potash the hypopygium 
can be turned backwards so as to display various complicated 
structures, namely, the superior claspers, the editum, the inferior 
claspers, the harpes, the juxta or penis sheath, the median pro- 
cess, and the connecting membrane. All these vary in shape iu 
different groups ; the median process and counectiug membrane 
are found only in some of them. 



GENUS GLOSSINA 



Hind tarsi not entirely dark 
brown or blackish brown 

r~ -^ 

Upper surface of abdomen 

not banded 

I 



Hind tarsi entirely dark brown or blackish 
brown (all joints more or less dark) 



Wings fairly dark, 

palpi long and 

slender 



Wings pale, 
palpi short 



Upper surface of ab- 
domen distinctly 

banded 
"1 



Chara 



icteris- 
tic thoracic 
markings 
(spots and 
stripes) dis- 
tinct 



Dorsum of ab- 
domen buff,3rd 
and other seg- 
ments exhibit- 
ing interrupted 
broad trans- 
verse bands 




TSE-TSE FLIES 201 

mountains. A sudd- covered or sedgy-banked .river or lake 
shore or sedgy swamp they do not frequent. They are most 
numerous along the water's edge ; they become scarcer and 
scarcer as one advances inland, and (except in the case of 
certain species) during the rainy season disappear entirely 
within a few miles of the water. The places thev occupy are 
sharply defined and, as a rule, permanently established. These 
places or stations are called "fly belts," and the natives 
know the limits of these belts precisely. The fly belts vary 
greatly in disposition and extent. Not infrequently they 
occur on one side of a stream but not on the other. These 
fly patches are usually confined to strips of jungle, to banana 
grounds coming down to the water's edge, or to areas of mosani 
or mimosa forest. In short, the essential condition of a tse-tse 
station are the presence of open water, a wooded district, and 
a loose soil. As a rule, the fly patches are in sandy ridges or 
where there are overhanging or jungle-shaded banks. 

The limitation of the tse-tse to definite tracts or " belts " 
has given riss to much speculation. The prevalent opinion is 
that the fly waits near water to feed on the animals that 
come to drink. Austen ascribes it to a characteristic social 
tendency which is exhibited very frequently amongst Diptera. 
Sambon suggests that it may be related to some food habit 
possibly to a connection with air-breathing fish, of which 
there are several genera with numerous species in the rivers 
and lakes of Africa; the fly either feeding directly on the fish 
or on some mammal or bird which feeds on these fish. Such 
an association with air-breathing fish might explain the 
peculiar patchy distribution of certain species of tse-tse fly, 
their limitation to the neighbourhood of water, and the sandy 
and thickly wooded nature of their haunts. In the dry season 
air-breathing fish are obliged to bury themselves in the mud 
or to excavate burrows from which they come out towards 
evening in quest of food; they must therefore necessarily 
congregate in such places as offer conditions suitable to 
these habits.* It is very important to ascertain the exact 
reason for the singular topical limitation of the fly, for it may 
be that through knowledge of this the prophylaxis of fly- 
transmitted disease could get its opportunity. 

Reproduction. The Glossince do not lay eggs as do 
the majority of the Diptera, but, as in the case of forest-flies 
(Hippoboscidai), the eggs hatch, and the larvae feed, develop, 
and moult within the body of the parent, so that when ex- 
truded they have practically reached the pupa stage. In fact, 
the extruded larva becomes almost immediately a pupa, the 
larva skin becoming a dark, rigid puparium. When extruded, 
the fully grown larva is nearly as large as the abdomen of the 

* It is interesting to note in connection with this suggestion 
that trypanosomes of the mammalian type have been found by 
Dutton, Todd, and Toby in Clarias angolensis at Leopoldville, 
and by Montel in another air-breathing fish of undetermined 
species. 

H* 



202 



TRYPANOSOMIASIS 



mother ; it is a yellowish ovoid body composed of twelve seg- 
ments and presenting two small hooks at the anterior pole,, 
and two protuberances at the posterior extremity, which is 
black. The perfect insect emerges from its pupa-case in about 
six weeks. In the case of G. palpalis the pupa has been found 
in Uganda buried in the loose earth about the roots of banana 
trees (Bagshawe) and similar situations. 

Habits. Tse-tse flies are voracious blood-suckers, ex- 
hibiting great persistency in their attacks on man and animals. 
They bite almost exclusively during the day, though some of 
the larger species bite at night, and one of them, G. brevipalpis, 
is stated to be definitely crepuscular in its habits. Contrary 
to what is the case among horse-flies (Tabanidcc) and mosquitoes 
(Culicidcc), of which the females alone suck blood, in the tse- 
tse both sexes are blood-sucking, and with some species the 
males are more voracious, or more pertinacious, than the 
females. 




Fig. 53. 
Tse-tse fly. 



Fig. 54. 
Mouth parts. 



Fig. 55. 
Pupa stage. 



CHAPTER XI 
LEISHMANI ASIS 

UNDER the term " leishmaniasis " at least three 
diseases of man are included, viz. kala-azar r oriental 
sore, and espundia. These disease?, though clinic- 
ally quite distinct and having each a definite topical 
and geographical distribution, are all associated with 
what optically appears to be the same organism, 
Leishmania. But though their respective organisms 
appear to be morphologically identical, it is by no 
means justifiable to conclude that they are specifi- 
cally identical. The Leishmania form is common to 
many protozoa ; it is merely a stage an immature 
stage and until the life-history is quite complete, 
and the natural history of the parasites of these 
diseases has been worked out, our judgment as to 
their identity or otherwise should be suspended. If it 
turn out to be the case that the germ causes of the 
various clinical forms of leishmaniasis are specifi- 
cally identical, we shall have to conclude that the 
special pathogenic properties of these germs have 
been conferred on them during their extracorporeal 
life, especially by passage through particular animal 
intermediaries. Herein lies a wide field for future 
investigation. 

I. KALA-AZAB 

Synonyms. Tropical splenomegaly, black sick- 
ness, Sirkari disease, Sahib's disease, Burdwan fever, 
kaladunkh, dum-dum fever, ponos. 

Definition. An infective disease characterized 
by chronicity, irregular fever, enlargement of the 
spleen and often of the liver, the presence in these 
and other organs of Leishmania donovani, emaciation, 
ansemia, leucopenia and relative increase of large 
mononuclear leucocytes, frequently a peculiar hyper- 
pigmentation of the skin, and a high mortality. 
203 



204 KALA-AZAR [CHAP. 

History* The earliest description of this disease 
is by Clarke, who states, in the Assam Sanitary Re- 
port for 1882, that as far back as 1869 the attention of 
administrative officers in Assam had been directed to 
a peculiar disease called by the natives kala-azar, the 
ravages of which decimated, and in some instances 
almost depopulated, numerous districts in the Garo 
Hills. Notwithstanding its peculiar clinical features, 
its great fatality, its mode of spread along the lines of 
communication, the almost constant absence of malaria 
parasites from the blood, and the inefficacy of quinine 
treatment, until recently kala-azar was regarded by the 
majority of physicians as "a bad form of malaria." 

In 1889 Giles, who had been appointed to investi- 
gate the etiology of kala-azar, denied its malarial nature, 
and stated that the disease was "neither more nor less 
than ankylostomiasis," because he found the ova of 
the hookworm in the fseces of practically all the cases 
he investigated. Giles's theory furnished a plausible 
explanation of the peculiar way in which kala-azar 
spread, and which could not be satisfactorily accounted 
for by the malaria theory. It was accepted by some, 
with the reservation, however, that he had under- 
estimated the malarial element. Dobson strongly op- 
posed the ankylostoma theory. He stated that in 116 
cases of kala-azar he had found the hookworm in 
75 per cent., in 212 cases of other illness he had 
found it in 7 3 '20 per cent., and in 146 healthy men 
he had found it in 67 '12 per cent. 

In 1896 Leonard Rogers and in 1898 Ronald 
Ross were appointed to re-investigate the disease. 
Both agreed as to its malarial nature ; the former 
regarding it as a malignant type of malaria, the latter 
as malarial disease to which some form of secondary 
infection was superadded. 

In 1903 Bentley endeavoured to prove that kala- 
azar was a malignant form of Mediterranean fever, a 
disease which he suggested was probably introduced 
into India at the time of the Mutiny by British 
troops from Malta, Gibraltar, and other Mediterra- 
nean ports. 

Owing to the absence of malaria parasites in the 



xi] HISTORY 205 

cases of tropical splenomegaly I had studied in this 
country, the absence of tertian and quartan period- 
icity in the fever, and the uselessness of quinine in its 
treatment, I had come for some years to regard this 
disease as non-malarial and as one sui generis. In 
1903, struck by certain features common to tryp- 
anosomiasis and kala-azar, I ventured to suggest 
in the third edition of this manual that the latter 
disease might be a trypanosoma disease. 

A few months later, Leishman published a papei 
" On the Possibility of the Occurrence of Trypanosomi- 
asis in India," wherein he stated that in 1900, at 
Netley Hospital, at the post-mortem of a soldier who 
had died of so-called dum-dum fever, he had discovered 
in smear preparations from the spleen-pulp a number 
of small round or oval bodies, two or three microns 
in diameter, which on being stained presented, besides 
the nucleus, a smaller rod-like chromatin mass, set 
perpendicularly or at a tangent to the circumference 
of the larger nuclear mass. At the time he was 
unable to explain the nature of these bodies ; but in 
May, 1903, on coming across similar bodies in the 
blood of a rat which had died of nagana, and the 
blood of which during life contained numerous 
trypanosomes, he surmised that the bodies found in 
the soldier in 1900 represented degeneration forms 
of trypanosomes. 

In July, 1903, Donovan stated that he had found 
similar bodies three months previously in smears of 
the spleen taken post-mortem from cases said to have 
died from chronic malaria. On June 17th he found 
identical bodies in splenic blood taken during life 
from a patient suffering from irregular fever and 
enlarged spleen, and whose peripheral blood showed 
no malaria parasites. Identical bodies had also been 
found by Marchand in January, 1903, in sections of 
the spleen, liver, and bone marrow from a patient who 
had taken part in the Pekin campaign and had suffered 
from a long-continued irregular fever, extreme enlarge- 
ment of the spleen, and anaemia. 

In December, 1903, having under treatment a 
patient from Darjeeling suffering from typical kala- 



206 KALA-AZAR [CHAP. 

azar, I had the opportunity of examining blood 
abstracted from his spleen on two occasions, and 
found it swarming with the peculiar bodies already 
described by Leishman, Donovan, and Marchand. I 
was able to show that these bodies were not endo- 
corpuscular parasites, as suggested by Laveran and 
Mesnil, who had expressed the opinion that they 
belong to the genus Babesia. 

Then followed observations by a number of 
investigators, and we learnt that kala-azar was a 
widely distributed, though hitherto unrecognized, 
disease. It was found in various parts of the eastern 
side of India, in China, Arabia, the Soudan, 
Tunis, Sicily, Italy, Algeria, Crete, Spain, Portugal, 
Greece and the Grecian Archipelago,* Malta, the 
Caucasus, Central and South America, and South 
Africa, etc. Besides those of Leishman and of Dono- 
van, amongst the most important papers on the sub- 
ject are those of Christophers, who showed that the 
parasite attacks the endothelial cells ; of Leonard 
Rogers, who in cultivating the parasite obtained 
a characteristic flagellated form ; of Dr. J. H. 
Wright, of Boston, U.S.A., who found parasites 
morphologically indistinguishable from those of kala- 
azar in the granulation cells of tropical sore; of 
James, who confirmed and extended Wright's obser- 
vation ; of Pattoii, who considers he has discovered 
the extracorporeal developmental forms of the para- 
site in a species of bed bug ; of Nicolle and Comte 
on the occurrence of the same or a similar parasite 
in children and dogs in Tunis, and in kittens in 
Algiers ; of Laveran on experimental Leishmania, 
and many others, f 

Epidemiology. Our knowledge of the epidemi- 
ology of kala-azar is gathered mainly from the Assam 
epidemic, which began about 1870, when the disease 

* In the Ionian Islands and Greece the disease known as 
" ponos" was found by Gabbi to be infantile kala-azar. 

t Nicolle gave the name Leislnnania infant urn to this variety 
of the parasite in order to call attention to the special liability of 
children to the infection in Mediterranean countries, and not 
because he considered it specifically distinct from the Indian form, 
which attacks adults and children indifferently. 



xi] EPIDEMIOLOGY 207 

appears to have been introduced from Rangpur. 
Rogers believes that it was possibly a continuation 
of a similar epidemic, known as " Burdwan fever," 
which had been raging in Lower Bengal. This 
importation theory is supported by the names of 
" Sirkari disease " and " Sahib's disease " given by the 
Garos, who state that it was unknown among them 
until after the English took over their country, 
The epidemic began almost simultaneously at Bengal 
Kutta and Karaibari, two places fifty miles apart 
but in direct communication with the Rangpur 
district. It advanced very slowly along the valley 
of the Brahmaputra, taking seven years to spread 
less than a hundred miles. Following the lines 
of intercourse, it attacked first the larger stations, 
and then spread to the smaller villages around. 
The introduction of the disease into a village was 
almost invariably traced to someone coming with 
the disease on him from an infected locality. Some 
isolated villages escaped in a remarkable manner. 
Whilst the disease spread up the valley, the invasion 
of new places was counterbalanced by its dying down 
in villages and districts which had previously suffered. 
Generally, it clung to a place for about six years, 
and then disappeared without any apparent change 
in the local conditions. A house appeared to retain 
the infection for many months; the natives con- 
sidered that it could not be reoccupied with safety 
under one year. During the course of the epidemic 
kala-azar never extended far above the level of the 
Brahmaputra valley. The disease did not arise in 
the first instance in the interior of the Garo Hills 
district, as some authors affirmed, but appeared first 
at the foot of the hills, and then spread between 
them along the patches of low, flat, terai country. 

On account of its deadliness, especially in the 
smaller villages, kala-azar as it swept onwards 
became a terror to the natives. Those suffering 
from the disease were turned out of the villages ; 
sometimes they were made unconscious with drink, 
taken into the jungle, and burnt to death. Some 
villages cut off all communication with neighbouring 



208 KALA-AZAR [CHAP. 

villages for fear of infection ; other villagers deserted 
their homes and even migrated to a different district. 

Although the foregoing is the only recorded 
example of kala-azar as a widespread and active 
epidemic, it had been recognized that a disease 
clinically identical occurred sporadically in several 
places in India and elsewhere. These cases had 
often been regarded as a form of malarial cachexia, 
but the identity of the sporadic and epidemic 
disease has now been established by the detection 
of the Leishman or Leishman-Donovan body in both. 

In 1904 leishmania were discovered in Tunis by 
Cathoire, and important studies by the Sergents, 
Nicolle, and many others have shown that the para- 
site occurs in many of the islands and countries in 
the Mediterranean basin ; that there it is practically 
confined to young children infantile kala-azar 




Fig. 56. Kala-azar parasites from the spleen, stained. 

Leishmania infantum ; and, further, that whilst in 
India dogs are hardly ever affected, in the Mediter- 
ranean basin a large proportion of these animals are 
naturally the subjects of leishmaniasis. 

Etiology. The kala-azar parasite (Plate V.) 
has now been relegated to the genus Leishmania, 
Ross. We know two stages of this body, intra- 
corporeal and extracorporeal. Possibly these represent 
respectively asexual and sexual forms; the former 
found in man and in some other vertebrates, the latter 
obtained in artificial culture media, and, it may be, 
in certain insects flies, bugs, fleas, lice, mosquitoes. 

The distribution of the parasite within the body 
of man is very general. Apparently its special habitat 
is the endothelial cells of blood-vessels and lymphatics. 
It is particularly abundant in the spleen (Fig. 56), in 
the liver, and in the bone marrow ; but it also occurs 
in the lung, in the kidney, in the mesenteric and 




r % 

ORIENTAL SORE 

Parasites of kala-azar and oriental sore. 

KALA-AZAR : 1, Free forms from the spleen ; 2 and 3, in the endothelial 
cells : 4, in the liver. 

ORIENTAL SORE : 5, In endothelial cell : 6, free forms. 

PLATE V. 



xi] THE LEISHMAN BODY 209 

other lymphatic glands, in petechiee, in the arachnoid, 
in ulcers involving the intestinal mucosa, and in 
papules and ulcers of the skin. It occurs also in the 
blood, though generally in very small numbers, being 
found there both in polymorphonuclear and mono- 
nu clear leucocytes, very rarely in the red corpuscles.* 
In the blood it is in greatest abundance towards the 
termination of the case, especially during fever, and 
when intestinal symptoms are present (Donovan). 

The Leishman or Leishman-Donovan body, as 
it is generally called, is a small ovoid or round- 
ish organism measuring from 2 to 4 p. in diameter. 
Stained according to Leishman's method, it shows 
two lilac-coloured chromatin masses, one larger than 
the other, enclosed in a cytoplasm having a faint 
bluish tint about the periphery. The larger chroma- 
tin mass is the nucleus, which may be oval and 
centrally placed (resting stage), or elongated and 
at the periphery (pre-di vision stage). The smaller 
chromatin mass is the micronucleus or blepharoplast ; 
it is usually in the shape of a short rod, and is placed 
perpendicularly, or at a tangent to the nucleus. It 
stains more deeply than the latter. The parasites 
multiply by simple fission, the division of the body 
being always preceded by the elongation and division 
of the nucleus and blepharoplast. The plane of di- 
vision is always longitudinal. Some forms, having 
attained a larger size, suggest a process of multiple 
fission ; these are almost circular, and present, as a 
rule, six chromatin masses, three large and three 
small, the former being placed round the periphery. 

The parasites, as they occur in man, are probably 
almost invariably intracellular. They grow and 
multiply within the host cell, causing it to enlarge, 
and then, after disintegration of the nucleus, to dis- 
rupt. The parasites so set free either enter other 
eridothelial cells or are taken up by the white blood- 
corpuscles, in which they are sometimes found in the 



* When existing in the blood in small numbers their presence 
can, in the hands of experts, be demonstrated by the N.N.N. 
cultural method. Centrifugatiou of the blood is of little use. 



210 



KALA-AZAR 



[CHAP. 



peripheral circulation. In smear preparations they 
are often free or in clusters of various numbers, 
sometimes arranged with great regularity like the 
merozoites in the segmenting quartan or tertian malaria 
parasites. Sometimes as many as 50, or 200, or even 
more parasites are found together embedded in a 
structureless matrix or stroma, probably the remains 
of the original host cell. 

In cultures (Fig. 57) the parasites enlarge very 
rapidly. They retain at first their shape, the cytoplasm 
becoming granular, opaque, and vacuolated. Having 
attained a diameter of 7 to 9 yu, they assume an 




Fig. 57. Kala-azar parasites in cultures. (After Leishman.) 

elongated pyriform shape and become flagellated. The 
nagellum arises from the blepharoplast at the rounded 
end of the parasite, and projects at once clear of the 
body as in Euglena. There is no undulating mem- 
brane as in trypanosomes. These flagellated forms 
measure from 12 to 20 p. in length. They multi- 
ply by longitudinal fission ; sometimes throwing off 
exceedingly fine linear forms (Leishman), compar- 
able in their delicacy to spirochsetes. They move 
actively with the flagellum in front, and towards the 
twelfth day tend to agglomerate in rosette groups, the 
flagella being directed centrally. 

The culture medium used by Rogers was blood 
to which a small quantity of sterile, slightly acid 
citrate of soda solution was added to prevent coagu- 



xi] TRANSMISSION - 211 

lation. When the culture medium was kept at blood 
heat the parasites very rapidly degenerated and dis- 
appeared ; but when placed in an incubator at 27 C. 
they lived for three or four days and multiplied. 
A lower temperature was found to be even more suit- 
able. When temperature was lowered to 20-22 C. 
the parasites multiplied more readily, acquired a 
considerable size, and finally assumed the elongated, 
motile, flagellated form. The N.N.N. culture medium 
(p. 158) gives excellent results, and in this, by trans- 
planting at intervals of from twelve to fifteen days, 
the cultures can be kept alive up to at least four 
years. The presence of moulds does not affect the 
cultures, but bacterial contamination is fatal. 

Animal experiments. The early attempts in India 
to communicate kala-azar to the lower animals failed, 
but Nicolle in Tunis, and, subsequently, many others 
elsewhere, have shown that dogs, cats, jackals, monkeys, 
rats, mice, and to a less extent guineapigs and rabbits, 
are inoculable, provided laige doses of the virus are 
injected into the liver or peritoneal cavity. For a 
dog, 2 to 4 c.c. of a thick emulsion of infected liver, 
spleen, or bone marrow in normal saline usually suf- 
fices. Intravenous injection is not so successful. 
Injection of cultures sometimes succeeds. Archibald 
succeeded, in Khartoum, in infecting a monkey by 
feeding it on kala-azar material. 

Mode of transmission. This has not been definitely 
ascertained as regards India, but there is evidence 
that in the Mediterranean countries the dog* is a 
principal reservoir of the disease, and may be con- 
cerned with the endemicity. It has also been as- 
serted, but not proved, that the dog-fleas, Pulex 
serraticeps and Ctenocepkalus canis, are the trans- 
mitters. So far as ascertained, wherever kala-azar 
occurs, there the dogs are infected with L. donovani 
in variable proportion from 1-8 per cent, to 81 per 
cent. In India Donovan has failed to find, except 
in a negligible proportion of instances, naturally 

* In the naturally infected dog, symptoms resembling rabies 
have been noted, by Nicolle, associated with the presence of 
leishmania in the spinal cord. 



212 KALA-AZAR [CHAP. 

infected dogs. Strange to say, although the dog has 
been found to be easily infected in the Mediterranean 
area, in India it seems to be partially immune and 
only contracts the disease after massive intraperitoneal 
injections of leishmania-infected organs. 

The exact way in which the flea transmits the 
virus, if it be the transmitting agent, is not known 
whether the parasite undergoes important biological 
changes in the insect, or whether the latter functions 
merely in a passive or mechanical way. 

Patton has put forward a claim for the bug as the 
transmitter of Indian kala-azar. It may be so, but 
conclusive proof has not been adduced. Should the 
conjecture be confirmed it would afford an explanation 
of the tendency of the disease to cling to particular 
localities and houses, and it would supply a valuable 
guide to prophylaxis.* 

Under natural conditions kala-azar, like other 
diseases caused by similar protozoal organisms, is 
probably transmitted by a living agent. There are 
certain facts, however, which tend to suggest that the 
carrier need not necessarily be a blood-sucking animal. 
In the first place, the parasite in man is not, as a 
rule, in great abundance in the peripheral circula- 
tion. Secondly, the parasite is often present in 
ulcerations of the skin and of the intestinal mucosa, 
suggesting elimination by these organs. Mackie 
found leishmania-like bodies in the mucus of dysen- 
teric cases of kala-azar. Thirdly, we know that 
although some species of Herpetomonas are fostered 
by blood-sucking flies, such as Tabanus and Hcema- 
topota, others are found in non-biting forms, such as 
Musca, Sarcophagy Pollenia, and Fucellia, which 
could become infected only by settling on ulcera- 
tions or on faecal matter. It is conceivable that 
such insects might transmit the infection of kala- 
azar by depositing the parasites on wounds and 
abraded surfaces. It has been suggested that there 

* The discovery of a flagellated organism or of developing 
leishmania in the gut of an insect must not be regarded as ade- 
quate proof that the insect is the normal, or even a transmitter 
of the organism concerned. 



xi] SYMPTOMS 213 

is a reservoir in some of the lower animals for 
leishmania, e.g. the house-lizard. The history of the 
Assam epidemic is against this view, for it has been 
definitely shown that the disease was introduced and 
spread by man, and that it did not pre-exist in the 
invaded districts, as would have been the case had 
there been an animal reservoir. 

Predisposing causes. Kala-azar attacks both 
sexes and all ages, but, unlike malaria, it shows a 
predilection for the acclimatized the natives ; in 
them it is said to be as severe and fatal as in the 
case of new-comers. In the Mediterranean basin it 
occurs almost though not quite exclusively in children 
(five months and upwards); in India it occurs at 
any age. The reason for this discrepancy as regards 
age has not been explained. 

Incubation period. This is difficult to fix. 
In the case of one Englishman, recently under my 
care, the time that elapsed from his arrival in per- 
fect health in the endemic region and the onset of 
the fever which terminated in kala-azar (diagnosed 
microscopically both before and after death) was under 
ten days. In a proportion of instances, as in some 
artificially infected dogs, and as is the case in dermal 
leishmaniasis, the disease may remain latent for 
months. In fatal cases in man the parasite may dis- 
appear from the tissues before death ; what appears 
to be an explanation of this curious fact has lately 
been advanced by Archibald, who found certain 
coccoid bodies by hepatic puncture in these latent 
cases ; he believes that these bodies represent a stage 
of the parasite. 

Symptoms. Bentley, speaking from a large 
experience in Assam, and with full knowledge of the 
literature of epidemic kala-azar, says that the disease 
commences with high fever, which may be pre- 
ceded by rigor and, in some cases, by vomiting. 
This initial fever intermittent in some instances, 
more frequently remittent may be very severe. It 
lasts for from two to six weeks, occasionally longer. 
During its progress the spleen and liver enlarge, 
increasing and decreasing at first, often in a most 



214 KALA-AZAR [CHAP. 

remarkable degree, in harmony with the fluctuations 
of the fever. Then comes a period of apyrexia and 
general improvement, to be followed once more by fever 
and splenic and hepatic enlargement, and perhaps 
tenderness. In this way spells of fever and apyrexia 
recur for months, absolutely unchecked by quinine, 
until finally a low form of fever, rarely over 
102 F., becomes more or less persistent. Profuse 
sweats are common during remissions at all stages of 
the fever ; rigor is rare. Pains in the limbs often 
suggest rheumatism. When the disease is thoroughly 
established emaciation and anaemia become noticeable, 
and, together with the enlargement of the liver and 
spleen, cause the patient to present a typical appear- 
ance. (Edema of the legs, sometimes circumscribed 
03demas, or even ascites may now be present. In 
many the skin acquires an extraordinary earthy- 
grey colour; the hair is apt to become dull, dry, 
and brittle, and may fall out ; petechiae, in the 
axillae especially, are not unusual ; epistaxis and 
bleeding from the gums are common. This condition 
of chronic fever, enlargement of spleen and liver, 
emaciation and anaemia, may continue for months, 
or even one or two years, until improvement sets 
in, or more usually 96 per cent, of cases (Rogers), 
150 recoveries in 2,000 cases (Price), 24 in 100 cases 
(Lignos) until the patient is cut off by intercurrent 
disease, especially dysentery (90 per cent.), occasion- 
ally phthisis, pneumonia, cancrum oris, or asthenia. 

According to Rogers, the degree of anaemia, in 
uncomplicated cases, is usually only a moderate 
one, the number of red corpuscles being not in- 
frequently over 4,000,000, and, as a rule, over 
2,500,000 even in advanced cases. The most re- 
markable change in the blood is the great and 
constant reduction in the number of leucocytes. 
Instead of there being 1 white to about 625 red, 
as in a normal subject, the proportion is commonly 
from 1 to 2,000 to 1 to 4,000, and may be lower 
still. The reduction is most marked amongst the 
polynuclear variety ; the lymphocytes and large 
mononuclear leucocytes, although greatly reduced in 



xi] DIAGNOSIS 215 

number, show a relatively increased percentage as in 
some other protozoal diseases. He further states 
that the alkalinity of the blood is diminished. 

In those cases which I have had an opportunity 
of carefully watching I have been struck with the 
fact that, notwithstanding the chronic fever and 
progressive wasting, throughout the long illness the 
tongue has been almost uniformly clean and the 
appetite and digestion good. 

Morbid anatomy. The spleen is greatly en- 
larged and the thickened capsule may show signs 
of perisplemtis. The trabeculse are enlarged, the 
pulp increased in bulk and full of blood. A section 
or smear preparation, appropriately stained, will show 
prodigious profusion of parasitic growth in the crowds 
of the large mononuclear cells already referred to. 
The liver also is generally much enlarged. It has a 
brown or mottled section. The parasites are in great 
abundance, occupying large mononuclear cells, at- 
tached or free, in the dilated hepatic and portal 
capillaries. There may be some cirrhotic changes, 
but the hepatic cells, though atrophied and perhaps 
fatty, never contain parasites. The bone marrow is 
similarly packed with parasite -lad en cells. Intestinal 
ulcer ation is very common, and parasites may be 
found in the walls of the ulcers as well as in skin 
lacerations or in the lymphatic glands. Occasionally 
they are found in connection with the blood-vessels 
in the kidneys, but never in the epithelium of the 
secreting tubules. 

Diagnosis. Irregular chronic fever with en- 
largement of the spleen and a relative mononuclear 
leucocytosis in patients from the endemic zone sug- 
gests kala-azar. An examination of the blood can 
at once exclude leucocythsemia and, if taken together 
with absence of tertian or quartan periodicity and 
the inefficacy of quinine, malaria. Trypanosomiasis 
and kala-azar may be difficult to distinguish between, 
and unless their respective parasites are detected a 
positive diagnosis is impossible, although geographical 
considerations and subsidiary skin and lymphatic 
lesions may assist in forming an opinion, 



216 KALA-AZAR [CHAP. 

Banti's disease and tropical splenomegaly clinically 
approach very closely, and can only be excluded by a 
microscopical examination of the liver and spleen 
juices, or of the blood. Similarly, malignant disease 
of the abdomen, so often associated with irregular 
chronic fever, in the absence of a satisfactory micro- 
scopical examination of liver or spleen juice, may be 
difficult to distinguish from kala-azar. 

On the discovery of the germ cause of kala-azar, 
and the fact that this disease is widely distributed 
throughout the tropics and sub-tropics, there was at 
first a tendency to regard all cases of febrile tropical 
splenomegaly which are not associated with malaria, 
trypanosomiasis, and other well-known conditions, as 
kala-azar. Further observation and experience have 
considerably modified this view, since it has been 
found that a proportion of such cases do not show the 
Leishman body either during life or after death. 
Possibly other protozoal germs, as yet unrecognized, 
are responsible for some of these cases. So that, 
in any given case of tropical splenomegaly, until the 
Leishman body is found it would be rash to pronounce 
a positive diagnosis of kala-azar, 

The discovery of the Leishman body in the blood,* 
lymph, or tissues, therefore, is the only^reliable indica- 
tion of kala-azar. In the first instance it should be 
sought for in the blood, or in material obtained by 
puncture of lymphatic glands, after appropriate stain- 
ing. A high-power immersion lens is indispensable, 
and every leucocyte or scrap of tissue must be care- 
fully scrutinized for the little oval body with the 
round or oval nucleus and rod-shaped blepharoplast. 
Several films, especially at the edges of the prepara- 
tions, must be searched in this way before recourse 
is had to splenic or, better as being less dangerous, 
hepatic puncture. 

Splenic puncture must not be lightly undertaken. 
A preliminary examination of the blood should 
always be made, not only with a view to ascertain 

* Patton found the parasite in the blood in the first blood- 
film examined in 42 out of 84 cases, and in the remaining 42 after 
more or less prolonged examination of from two to twenty slides. 



xil TREATMENT 217 

the presence of the Leishman body, but to exclude 
leucocythsemia and obviate the necessity for splenic 
puncture, and the attendant risk of fatal haemorrhage so 
easily induced in that disease. Death from haemorrhage 
has frequently followed this seemingly trivial proce- 
dure. When the liver is enlarged, being a less vascular 
organ and less easily torn, it should be selected for 
punctures in preference to the spleen. The abdomen 
had better be fixed firmly with a binder to prevent 
as far as possible movement of the diaphragm and 
consequent risk of tearing the punctured organ. A 
fine hypodermic needle, scrupulously clean and dry,* 
and connected with the barrel of the syringe by a 
short length of rubber tubing, should be used, the 
patient being directed not to start or breathe while 
the puncture is being made. Failure to draw blood 
is not to be regarded as failure to obtain material 
for microscopical examination ; on the contrary, it is 
an advantage, as the object is to procure spleen or 
liver pulp, not blood. After blowing out the con- 
tents of the needle on a slip, a film should be spread 
and, after it has dried, stained by Irishman's or 
Giemsa's procedure, and then examined with a t^th 
objective. The parasite is easily recognized by its 
size, shape, and two chromatin masses. 

Treatment. Until recently this, as a rule, was 
most unsatisfactory. Intercurrent malarial attacks 
may advantageously be treated with quinine, but for 
the disease itself this drug, even in huge doses and 
persisted with for long periods, is useless, if not 
harmful. Arsenic has proved equally unsatisfactory. 
Intravenous injections of salvarsan have been followed 
by favourable results. Splenectomy has been tried, 
but has failed. I have treated four cases with in- 
tramuscular injections of atoxyl. In two of these 
there was no improvement, the disease running its 
usual fatal course ; but in the other two cases re- 
covery ensued, whether as a result of the treatment 
or not I cannot assert. The arsenical is now quite 
superseded by the antimony treatment, introduced by 

* The presence of water in the needle will distort or burst the 
parasite and render it unrecognizable. 



218 KALA-AZAR [CHAP. 

Machado and Vianna in Brazil for dermal leish- 
maniasis, and subsequently applied to kala-azar by 
Castellani, Rogers, and others with remarkable 
success. If instituted before the case has become 
hopeless it seldom fails to ensure recovery. The 
drug may be given as in trypanosomiasis (see p. 180). 
The expulsion of intestinal parasites, change to a 
healthy climate, good food, warmth, rest, physical 
comfort, and good hygienic conditions are indicated. 

Prophylaxis. Having regard to the character 
of the disease, in the endemic districts the cases 
should be dealt with as infectious ; they should be 
isolated, and their houses and fomites should be 
disinfected or burnt. Domestic and personal clean- 
liness is of great importance. Infected dogs and cats 
should be destroyed ; and as far as possible, in the 
endemic districts, dogs should be kept free from 
fleas and not in too close association with man. By 
segregation of the sick, burning of houses, clothing, 
and furniture, etc., and provision of new huts, Price, 
Rogers, and Young have succeeded in exterminating 
the disease in infected coolie lines. 

Oriental sore and kala-azar. If the para- 
site of oriental sore be specifically identical with that 
of kala-azar, it must somehow have been deprived of 
its virulence ; for, although kala-azar is a fatal disease, 
oriental sore is eminently benign. It is known that 
one attack of oriental sore confers immunity against 
further attacks of the same disease. It affects dogs 
and other animals. May it not be that the virulence 
of the Leishman body is removed by passage through 
some animal other than man ; or, possibly, by being 
transmitted by some intermediary other than that 
which transmits the virulent kala-azar? If this be 
so, we have at hand a vaccine against kala-azar. The 
idea is worth testing : " Are those who have had 
oriental sore immune as regards kala-azar, and vice 
versa 1 " * In support of this suggestion it has long 

* Nicolle has succeeded in producing a certain amount of 
immunity in dogs and monkeys to oriental sore and to kala-azar 
by injecting them intraperitoneally with cultures and infected 
material containing the leishmania of the local and of the general 
disease. 



xi] OEIENTAL SORE 219 

been recognized in India that in districts where 
kala-azar is common oriental sore is rare. Recent 
work has shown that this is partially true for the 
Mediterranean area also. In Teheran the dogs are 
found infected with dermal leishmaniasis, and a 
general infection combined with cutaneous lesions has 
been produced in mice by intravenous injections of 
cultures of Leishmania tropica (the parasite of 
oriental sore), and sores in monkeys by cutaneous 
inoculation of cultures of Leishmania donovani. 

II. ORIENTAL SORE 

Synonym*. Tropical sore, bouton d'Orient, 
Delhi boil, etc. 

Definition. A specific ulcerating granuloma of 
the skin, endemic within certain limited areas in 
many warm countries. It is caused by a species of 
Leishmania, and is characterized by an initial papule, 
which, after scaling and crusting over, generally 
breaks down into a slowly extending and very indo- 
lent ulcer. Healing after many months, it leaves a 
depressed scar. The sore is inoculable and, usually, 
protective against recurrence. 

Geographical and seasonal distribution. 
Among the endemic places may be named Morocco, 
the Sahara (Biskra, Gafsa), the Niger, Egypt, Crete, 
Cyprus, Asia Minor, Syria (Aleppo), the Soudan, 
Mesopotamia (Bagdad), Arabia, Persia, the Caucasus, 
Turkestan, India (Lahore, Multan, Delhi, etc.). 
Juliano describes the disease as being common in 
Bahia, Brazil, and cases are reported from Bolivia, 
Peru, Panama, and French Guiana where it is 
called "pian bois," " bosch-yaws," etc. The name 
oriental sore, suggested by Tilbury Fox, is therefore 
no longer quite appropriate. 

Locally, oriental sore is often called after some 
town or district in which it is specially prevalent; 
thus we have Delhi boil, Bagdad boil, "clou de 
Gafsa/' and so forth. It is much more common in 
cities than in the country. In Bagdad few escape an 
attack ; visitors of a few days only are almost certain, 
at particular times of the year, to contract it. 



220 ORIENTAL SORE [CHAP. 

According to Hirsch, in the tropics this form of 
ulceration is especially prevalent about the com- 
mencement of the cool season ; in more temperate 
climates, towards the end of summer or beginning of 
autumn. Years of prevalence may be succeeded by 
years of comparative rarity ; possibly in harmony 
with altered sanitary conditions. In Delhi, for ex- 
ample, in 1864 from 40 to 70 per cent, of the 
resident Europeans were affected with the local sore ; 
on certain sanitary improvements being effected, the 
frequency of the disease was immediately materially 
reduced. 

Histology; etiology. Section of the papule 
displays an infiltration of the derma by a mass of 
small round granulation cells. These lie between the 
elements of the tissues, particularly about blood- 
vessels, lymphatics, and sweat-glands ; towards the 
centre of the lesion they completely replace the 
normal structures. Various micro-organisms have 
been described in association with oriental sore. By 
staining sections in gentian violet and afterwards 
partly decolorizing in spirit, Cunningham and Firth 
found certain violet-stained bodies (Jfelcosoma tropi- 
cum), varying in size and grouping, in a proportion of 
the infiltrating cells. These bodies Cunningham was 
inclined to regard as parasites. Riehl looked upon 
them as the result of a hyaline degeneration of 
protoplasm, and advanced a claim for certain micro- 
cocci which he said he found in great profusion in 
the granulation cells. That Cunningham's view is 
correct was proved by an American observer, H. 
Wright, who, in 1903, found in the granulation cells of 
an oriental sore the Leishman body (Cunningham's 
parasites) in gi-eat profusion. This observation has 
been abundantly confirmed in India and elsewhere ; 
so that it may now be considered as definitely 
established that the cause of oriental sore is the 
Leishman body, or a body morphologically identical 
with this parasite. For the characters of the Leish- 
man body, see p. 208 and Plate V. 

The cultivation of the parasite, first carried out 
by Nicolle, is easily effected in the N.N.N. medium. 



xi] ETIOLOGY 221 

The surface of a non-ulcerating sore is first painted 
with iodine and then punctured with a fine syringe. 
The parasites, as in the case of L. donovani, grow best 
in the condensation water. Inoculation of cultures 
has given rise to lesions in monkeys. 

In what way, under natural conditions, the para- 
site enters the tissues it is as yet impossible to state 
definitely. Not improbably it is conveyed by flies 
or other biting insects, and by them either inserted 
into the skin or applied to some pre-existing wound 
or sore. Dogs in Teheran, and perhaps camels, are 
subject to this or a similar disease. Monkeys and 
dogs have proved to be experimentally inoculable, 
while donkeys, horses, goats, and sheep are refrac- 
tory. It must not be overlooked that in susceptible 
animals an important source of infection may lie. 

Probably there are two methods of infection (a) 
direct, the Leishman body being directly inoculated 
without undergoing sexual or other developmental 
change ; (b) indirect, in which an infected fly, bug, 
or other insect, either itself or through its progeny, 
conveys to the new host the parasite which in the 
meantime has undergone evolutionary changes.* 
Wenyon has proved that the parasite is unable to 
enter through the unbroken skin. 

As a rule, second attacks do not occur. Observing 
this, the Jews of Bagdad at one time practised on 
their young children oriental-sore inoculation. 

Neither race, nor sex, nor age, nor occupation, nor 
social condition materially influences susceptibility. 

IIH nl>:if ion period and constitutional 
symptoms. The incubation period of oriental sore 
is variously stated in days, weeks, or months. That 
it may be a brief one, a few days or weeks, seems to 
be established by the appearance of the sore within a 
short time of arrival in endemic districts, or after 

* Fatten has definitely stated that the bed-bug, Clmex rot un - 
datus, is the transmitter of the disease in Cambay, India ; these 
results Wenyou has failed to confirm. It is a mistake to conclude, 
because a parasite is capable of living for a time and even 
developing in the alimentary canal of some blood -sucking insect, 
that that insect is the natural transmitter of the disease. Wenyon 
has found developing leishmania from oriental sores in the 
stomach of mosquitoes. 



222 



OKIENTAL SORE 



[CHAP. 



inoculation. That it can be of much longer duration 
is equally certain. I have seen an unquestionable 
oriental sore which did not appear until five months 
after the patient had been exposed to any possibility 




Fig. 53. Oriental sore. (After Wenyon. From photo by R.^McKay, 
reproduced in " Journ. Lond. School Trop. Med.") 

of infection. Wenyon inoculated himself with orien- 
tal sore in Aleppo; it was not until six and a half 
months later that a leishmania - containing papule, 
subsequently developing into a sore, appeared at the 
site of inoculation. In other cases the incubation 



xi] SYMPTOMS 223 

period has been as much as fifteen months, or even 
longer. 

There is very little reliable information about the 
presence or absence of constitutional symptoms. It 
is customary to describe the disease as non- febrile. 
This may be true in most cases, but I am not con- 
vinced that it is so in every case. It is obvious 
that in a disease with, at least in some instances, 
a very prolonged incubation period, slight or even 
severe fever might be overlooked or misinterpreted. 
Oriental sore produces an immunity against itself. 
There must, therefore, be profound constitutional 
change. In other diseases attended with similar 
change fever is almost invariably present at one 
time or another in their course. In the case just 
alluded to as occurring in my experience, a severe 
anomalous fever, of five or six weeks' duration, pre- 
ceded by eight months the appearance of the local 
lesions. In Wenyon's case the development of the 
initial papule was preceded by smart fever supposed 
at the time to be influenzal. Seeing, as has been 
pointed out (p. 218), the close connection of oriental 
sore with kala-azar, this question of the constitutional 
symptoms in the milder disease is an important one, 
and should be carefully studied. 

Symptoms. The local lesion in oriental sore 
commences as a minute, itching papule which tends 
to expand somewhat as a shotty, congested infiltra- 
tion of the derma. After a few days or weeks the 
surface of the papule becomes covered with fine, 
papery scales. At first these scales are dry and 
white ; later they are moister, thicker, browner, and 
adherent. In this way a crust is formed, which 
on falling off, or on being scratched off, uncovers a 
shallow ulcer {Fig. 58). The sore now slowly extends, 
discharging a scanty ichorous material ; this from 
time to time may become inspissated and a crust 
forms, while the sore continues to spread underneath. 
The ulcer extends by the erosion of its perpendicular, 
sharp-cut, and jagged edge, which is surrounded by 
an areola of congestion. Subsidiary sores may arise 
around the parent ulcer, into which they ultimately 



224 OEIENTAL SOKE [CHAP. 

merge. These sores, usually about an inch in diameter, 
may come, in some instances, to occupy an area several 
inches across. 

After a variable period, ranging from two or 
three to twelve or even more months, healing sets 
in. Granulation is slow and frequently interrupted. 
Often it commences at the centre whilst the ulcer 
may be still extending at the edge ; often it is effected 
under a crust. Ultimately a depressed white or 
pinkish cicatrix is formed. Contraction of the scar 
may cause considerable and unsightly deformity. 

Oriental sore may be single or multiple. Two' or 
three sores are not uncommon; in rare instances as 
many as forty have been counted on the same patient. 
They are mostly situated on uncovered parts hands, 
feet, arms, legs, and, especially in young children, on 
the face ; rarely on the trunk ; never on the palms, 
soles, or hairy scalp. Seidelin, Darling, and Connor 
have described as occurring in South America oriental 
sores with a predilection for the margins of the ears. 

Dr. Sturrock, who practised in Bagdad for four 
years, informs me that in rare instances the disease 
recurs more than once, but, as a rule, the sores of the 
second attack do not break down. He has also seen a 
chronic type of the disease, which may recur and per- 
sist for several years and be associated with deposit in 
the testes, in mucous membranes, as well as with a 
chronic form of dactylitis. 

In a very few instances the initial papule does 
not proceed to ulceration, but persists as a scaling 
or scabbing, non-ulcerating, flattened plaque just as 
sometimes happens in the case of the primary sore 
of syphilis. Sometimes the ulcer is quite superficial, 
an erosion rather than an ulcer. Occasionally, from 
contamination with the virus of some other infectious 
acute inflammatory skin disease, the primary lesion 
may become complicated, and perhaps a source of 
serious danger. Otherwise, oriental sore is troublesome 
and unsightly rather than painful or dangerous. 

According to Nattan-Larrier there is a mono- 
nuclear leucocytosis in this form of leishmaniasis 
similar to that in kaU-azar. 



xi] LEISHMANIASIS AMERICANA 225 

Treatment. Some have advocated destruction 
of the primary papule, and even of the ulcer, by caustics 
or by the actual cautery ; but a knowledge of the 
nature and natural progress of the disease suggests a 
protective and soothing rather than an irritating line 
of treatment. A dressing with some mild antiseptic 
ointment, as of iodoform, boric or salicylic acid, is 
indicated. Favourable results are reported from the 
application of an ointment consisting of equal parts 
of lanoline, vaseline, and methylene blue. Recently 
Row seems to have had prompt cures from hypo- 
dermic injections of killed cultures of the Leishmania 
parasite. The dose of a rich culture on N.N.N. 
medium, to which 5 drops of glycerine had been 
added forty minutes before, was f c.c. This may 
be repeated a few days later. Dr. Andrew Duncan 
informed me that in India he had seen these sores 
treated with great success by bandaging over them a 
piece of thin sheet-lead. Most probably these were 
not true oriental sores, which, as analogy would 
lead us to think, could heal only as the result of a 
specific treatment or on the establishment of im- 
munity. X-ray and light treatment have been tried, 
with success in some cases, and unfavourable results 
in others. The reports on radium, salvarsan, and 
CO 2 snow treatment are decidedly favourable. These 
methods of treatment have been successfully super- 
seded by antimony, given as in trypanosomiasis and 
kala-azar (p. 180). Tonics when the patient is 
anaemic or debilitated, attention to the general 
health, change of climate should the disease persist 
beyond the usual time, are indicated. 

III. LEISHMANIASIS AMERICANA 

Under the terms espundia, bubas braziliana, uta, 
pian bois, etc., several writers Carini, Paranhos, 
Splendore, Escomel, and others have described* a 
very grave form of leishmaniasis occurring in certain 
South American countries * Brazil, Bolivia, Peru, 

* La Cava has reported a similar disease affecting the noso 
and mucous membrane of the mouth, in Italy, in localities \rhero 
oriental sore is also found. 



22G LEISHMANIASIS AMERICANA [CHAP. 

Guiana, Martinique, Paraguay. Christopherson de- 
scribes a case of the espundia type which he met with 
in the Soudan. In Paraguay it has assumed epidemic 
characters, and a large proportion of the population 
in certain districts is said to be affected. 




Fig. 59. Ulceration of hard palate and nares in leishmaniasis Americana. 
(After Splendore.) 

The disease begins as a sore on some cutaneous or 
mucous surface (Fig. 59). The sore is of the chan- 
crous form of the ordinary oriental-sore type. It 
heals in time, leaving a characteristic scar. After 
an-jnterval of months or years, fungating and eroding 
ulcers (Fig. 60) of a most intractable character break 
out on the tongue, and on the buccal and nasal 
cavities, destroying and obstructing them, and ulti- 
mately, if untreated by antimony, after years of 
suffering, leading to the death of the patient by 



xi] LEISHMANIASIS AMERICANA 227 

exhaustion, The lymphatic glands are often involved, 
but the abdominal and thoracic organs are spared. 

Leishman bodies are to be found, though not in great 
profusion, in scrapings and sections of the fungating 
ulcers ; giant cells also occur. Dermal ulcers of oriental- 




Fig. 60. Ulceration of nares and lips in leishmaniasis Americana. 
(AJter Splendore.) 

sore type may concur with the buccal and nasal 
lesions. It is believed that the original sore in this 
grave form of leishmaniasis develops at the site of the 
bite of a jungle insect of unknown species. Treat- 
ment is the same as for oriental sore (p. 225) ; 

NOTE. The student is referred to Laverau's recently pub- 
lished work, " Leishmanioses " (Masson et Cie.), for a full and 
accurate^discussion. of this important subject. 



CHAPTER XII 
RELAPSING FEVER 

Synonyms. Febris recurrens; spirillum fever; 
famine fever; tick fever. 

Definition. An acute infectious disease, or, 
possibly, a group of infectious diseases, characterized 
by fever of sudden onset and, after several days 
(one to seven), rapid subsidence, and which may 
relapse at intervals of from one to seven or more 
days for an indefinite number of times. It is caused 
by spirochaetes which are present in the blood during 
the fever and are transmitted by certain insects (bug, 
body-louse) or by certain ticks (Argas, Ornithodoros). 

Geographical distribution. Relapsing fever 
is found in Europe, Asia, Africa, America, and prob- 
ably in Australasia. In Europe it occurs in Britain 
and, especially, in Ireland; also in Norway, Denmark, 
Germany, Russia, and Turkey. In Russia there have 
been many epidemics; it attacked the Grand Army 
in the retreat from Moscow, the allied armies in the 
Crimea, and, also, the armies of both sides in the 
Russo-Turkish War. In Africa the disease has long 
been known in Egypt, the Soudan, and Algeria. 
Recently, Philip Ross, Milne, and Cook found it in 
Uganda, Dutton and Todd in the Congo Free State, 
Wellman in Angola, and Koch in German East 
Africa. In Asia relapsing fever is known to occur 
in China, in Sumatra, and in India where Carter's 
classical investigations were made. In America it 
was recognized in the United States in 1844; in 
1 809 it was epidemic in New York and Philadelphia. 
It is probably widely distributed throughout South 
and Central America. 

From the symptoms, as far as they are known, 
and from the fact that they are communicated by 
tick bite, we are justified in conjecturing that the 
228 



HISTORY 229 

carapata disease described by Livingstone and Kirk 
as endemic in the Zambesi basin, the miana disease 
of Persia, and a similar disease described by Alleman 
in Mexico may be spirochsete-produced diseases, and 
forms of relapsing fever. 

History. Relapsing fever was known to Hippo 
crates. He describes an epidemic which he witnessed 
on the island of Thasos. Among other cases, he 
quotes those of two brothers, in one of whom the 
initial paroxysm lasted seven days, in the other six ; 
the intermission in one was five days, in the other 
six ; the relapse in both lasted five days. He further 
mentions the splenic enlargement, the jaundice, the 
liability to abortion in pregnant women, and the 
tendency to menorrhagia. From the time of Hippo- 
crates onwards there is no further notice of relapsing 
fever in medical literature until 1770; in that 
year Rutty in his book on the diseases of Dublin 
described it. 

In 1873 Obermeier discovered the spirochsete. 
In 1897 Tictin stated that the parasite and the 
disease were communicated by the common bed bug ; 
he infected a monkey with relapsing fever by subcu- 
taneous injection of blood obtained from the stomach 
of a bug which had previously fed on another monkey 
inoculated with the disease. 

In 1904 Philip Ross and Milne in Uganda, and 
rather later, but independently, Dutton and Todd on 
the Congo, discovered that in Africa the spirochsete 
was communicated by the bite of a tick, Ornithodoros 
moubata. The last two observers found that the 
parasite could pass into the egg and larva, and so 
confer infective powers on the mature tick of the 
succeeding generation. In 1907 Mackie, in India, 
recorded an outbreak of relapsing fever in which lice 
apparently served as the transmitting agent a view 
favoured by the experiments of Nicolle and others, 
who further state that the infection can be transmitted 
hereditarily to the offspring of infected lice. 

Etiology. Experiments and observation have 
proved that the various forms of relapsing fever are 
caused by Spirochceta recurrently or an allied organism 



230 RELAPSING FEVER [CHAP. 

Spirochceta recurrentis (S. obermeieri) is a delicate 
spiral filament (7 to 9 /* by 0-25 /*) provided, as shown 
by appropriate staining (Loefner's whip stain), with a 
long flagellum (5 to 7 yu by OvL to 0-2 p). The body of 
the parasite may have three, four, or six bends or turns, 
the flagellum from three to five. By the Romanow- 
sky method the body of the parasite usually stains 
uniformly, with the exception of the extremities, 
which are pointed and take only a very faint tint. In 
fresh blood the spirochsetes, propelled by the flagellum, 
exhibit very active screw-like movement. Some are 
longer than others, the long forms resulting from end- 
to-end attachment of two or more parasites. That 
this is the explanation of the long forms, which may 
measure from 16 to 100/u, is shown by staining. In 
those measuring from 1 6 to 1 9 /n we find a flagellum 
at each end of the filament and a pale zone in the 
middle, the pale zone corresponding to the approxi- 
mated lightly staining extremities above referred to. 
The still longer forms admit of a similar explanation. 
Although the normal habitat of the spirochsetes is 
the liquor sanguinis, occasionally they are seen in 
the red blood-corpuscles. 

Obermeier and von Jaksch describe certain re- 
fractile bodies present in the blood during the fever 
intermissions. The latter author says that he has 
observed the development of these bodies into short 
rods from which the typical spirochsetes are eventually 
evolved. This observation has not been confirmed. 

Demonstration of the parasite. It is necessary to 
remember that the parasite only occurs in the blood 
during the febrile stage of the disease, disappearing 
from it completely during the non-febrile intervals. 
In some forms and cases of the disease it is present 
in large numbers in every field of the microscope; 
in other forms and cases it is so scanty that many 
fields have to be examined before a single specimen 
can be discovered. In thin films of fresh blood its 
presence can usually be recognized from the agitation 
its movements communicate to the adjacent corpuscles. 
In dried and fixed films the stains in general use for 
malaria work suffice for its demonstration. The 



xn] THE PARASITE 231 

indian-ink or Burri method is invaluable for showing 
up the spirochsete. The technique is as follows : 
One drop of suspected blood and one drop of indian 
ink (Pelican brand) are taken up in a platinum loop 
and mixed together on a slide. The spirochsetes ap- 
pear as white wavy lines on a dark background. 

Harrison suggests a modification of this method, 
substituting a mixture of collargol powder 1 part, 
distilled water 19 parts, for the indian ink. The 
mixture is well shaken up in a black bottle before 
use. The dark-ground method of illumination is 
admirably adapted for demonstrating these parasites 
in a living state. A very strong illuminant prefer- 
ably a high-power electric light (Nernst lamp), not 
always procurable in the tropics is required. 

The " infective granule " of Balfour. Balfour 
has called attention to an interesting phenomenon 
occurring in the spirochsete infection of fowls, the 
exact signification of which has not been determined, 
but which may have reference to the relapses that 
are so striking a feature in spirochsete infection. 
His observations have been confirmed by Fantham 
and others. In spirochsete-infected fowls certain 
minute highly refractile granules are to be seen in 
a proportion of the red blood-corpuscles. At one 
time Balfour considered that these granules resulted 
from the breaking down of the spirochsetes which 
are frequently observed to enter, move about in, and 
coil up in the red cells. But by employing the dark- 
ground method of illumination he was led to conclude 
that these granules enter the corpuscles as granules, 
and that they are derived from spirochsetes free in 
the liquor sanguinis. He describes the process of 
"granule shedding" as follows: 

" By the use of the dark-field method, and more especially 
by practising liver puncture on chicks at the crisis or on chicks 
which have been given a sufficiently large dose of salvarsan, 
I have found that in the liver in particular, also in the spleen 
ami lung, the spirochsetes undergo an astonishing change. 
They discharge from their periplastic sheaths spherical gran- 
ules, and it is apparently these granules which enter the red 
cells, develop in them, and complete a cycle of schizogony. 
The appearance is very remarkable. If a well-infected chick 
be given a dose of salvaisan, the peripheral blood is soon 



232 RELAPSING FEVER [CHAP. 

cleared, or nearly cleared, of spirochaotes. If then a drop of 
liver juice be examined by the dark-field method, it will be 
found swarming with spirochaetes and with highly refrac- 
tile granules. The source of the latter is soon apparent, for 
attention will be directed to spirochaates which are not moving 
in the usual way, but are in a state of violent contortion, or 
are, so to speak, shaking themselves to and fro. Indeed, 1 
cannot give a more apt comparison than by likening their 
movements to those of dogs which have been in water and are 
shaking themselves vigorously to dry their coats. The object 
of the spirochaBtes, however, is to rid themselves of the bright, 
spherical granules which can be seen within them, and which 
may or may not be aggregations of the so-called chromatin 
core. These are forced along the periplastic sheath and sud- 
denly discharged, so that they become free in the medium and 
dance hither and thither as tiny solid, spherical, brilliantly 
white particles. In process of time the spirochaste loses its 
activity, becomes difficult to see, and eventually all that is 
left of it is the limp and lifeless sheath drifting aimlessly in the 
fluid and liable to be caught up and swept away by some still 
vigorous parasite. Such a sheath may still retain one or two 
of the granules which it has been unable to discharge." 

Nature of the spirochcete. Opinions differ as to 
the biology of the spirochaete whether it belongs to 
the bacteria or to the protozoa. .Novy and Knapp,* 
who regard it as a bacterium, point as evidence to 
(a) the pale zones in the stained long forms as 
possibly indicating transverse division ; (6) the spiral 
arrangement and very delicate nature of the fla- 
gellum, so unlike in these respects that of the fla- 
gellata ; (c) its not being killed rapidly and dis- 
integrated by the slow addition of water to the 
blood ; (d) its not being provided with an undulating 
membrane or being attracted, as the trypanosomes are, 
by air bubbles in microscopic preparations, the try- 
panosomes in such circumstances arranging themselves 
around the bubble, their flagella pointing inwards ; 
(e) its uniform staining ; (/) absence of nucleus and 
blepharoplast. In favour of the protozoal nature of the 
spirochaetes are (a) the presence of an undulating 
membrane but no flagella in certain species, as 
for example S. plicatilis and S. refringens ; (6) the 
elements constituting a long spiral are all of approxi- 
mately the same length, which is that of the individual 
spirochaete ; (c) the parasites are not all of the same 
* Journal of Infectious Diseases, 1906. 



xii] THE PARASITE 233 

thickness, some being twice the diameter of others 
facts suggesting a longitudinal, that is protozoal, 
rather than a transverse or bacterial method of 
division ; (d) the parasite keeps alive for many days 
forty in the body of the bug; (e) at least in the 
case of the African form, it enters the egg of the tick 
in utero ; (f) it is communicated by an arthropod. 

Schaudinn propounded the view that the leucocy- 
tozoon of the owl (L. ziemanni), after fertilization in 
the gut of the mosquito, gave rise to an enormous 
number of trypanosome-like forms which he regarded 
as spirochsetes. .These he considered were a flagel- 
lated stage of an intracellular organism and, therefore, 
belonged to the protozoa. He stated that he had 
compared his mosquito-bred flagellates with S. recur- 
rentis and S. anserinum, and that he found they 
agreed completely in morphological character with 
what he considered the spirochseta stage of L. zie- 
manni. Before his death Schaudinn seems to have 
modified his opinion, for in a later paper he states 
that L. ziemanni is far removed from the typical 
spirochsetes such as S. recurrentis. 

Novy and Knapp claim that their observations on 
the cultivation of trypanosomes in the blood of birds 
which, so far as microscopical examination went, 
appeared to be free from these organisms show 
that Schaudinn, probably unconsciously, worked with 
mixed infections ; and that the trypanosomes which 
he regarded as a stage in the life of the intracellular 
L. ziemanni were not in any way related to the 
spirochsetes, but merely a trypanosome derived either 
from birds or from trypanosomes of the mosquito, 
which is itself very liable to this type of infection. 

This question of the place in the natural kingdom 
of the spirochsetes of relapsing fever is still unde- 
cided. The trend of some recent investigations is to 
relegate them to the bacteria. Dobell,* as the out- 
come of improved technique, holds that the argument 
founded on longitudinal division for regarding them 
as protozoa is based on imperfect observation ; and 
tliat the argument based on hereditary transmission 

* Arch, fur Protistenkunde, 1912. 



234 RELAPSING FEVEK [CHAP. 

through the tick is equally inapplicable, seeing that 
we now know that a bacterium, B. cuenoti, is heredi- 
tarily transmitted by passing into the germ cell of 
the cockroach. Moreover, Nogucbi has succeeded in 
cultivating two strains of pathogenic spirochretes S. 
cluttoni and S. obenneieri. 

Cultivation. The successful cultivation of this 
as of other spirochretes has been performed by 
Noguchi, and more recently with simplified technique 
by Hata. For information as to the method, see p. 
655. According to Noguchi the organisms multiply 
by longitudinal division in artificial culture. 

Different species, or strains, of relapsing-fever para- 
sites. Having had the opportunity of examining the 
blood of a patient from Gibraltar suffering from her 
eighth paroxysm of relapsing fever, I suggested, on the 




Fig. 61. Spirochseta duttoni. 

ground of the unusually large number of relapses and 
the locality in which the infection was acquired, that 
there might be several forms of this type of disease, due 
to different species or varieties of spirochsetes. In 1905, 
in the discussion following the reading of Dutton and 
Todd's paper on tick fever (Brit. Med. Assn., 1905), 
Sambon made a similar suggestion, basing it on the 
wide geographical distribution of relapsing fever, 
the apparent clinical differences of the disease in dif- 
ferent places, and the diversity of animals believed 
to transmit the infection. Koch pointed out that in 
African tick fever the febrile stages are shorter (under 
three days) than in European relapsing fever, and that 
the spirochsetes in the blood are comparatively scanty ; 
similar observations have been made by Philip Ross 
and Dutton and Todd. Novy and Knapp, in com- 
paring specimens pf spirochcetes from European and 



xn] MODE OF TRANSMISSION 235 

African cases, noted that the spirochretes of the 
African disease are twice as long (16/i) as the 
classical S. recurrentis, and, moreover, that the former 
has a tendency to dispose itself in figure-of-eight coils 
or in perfect circles. The Indian species 'they also 
incline to regard as distinct. The latter, like S. recur- 
rentis, measures about 8 p, but is apparently thinner 
and more flexible, forming less regular spirals, which, 
moreover, vary in width. Like the spirochretes of 
African tick fever, the Indian variety has a tendency 
to form loops. 

For the African form Novy and Knapp propose the 
name S. duttoni (Fig. Gl); S. carteri would be an appro- 
priate name for the Indian form. An Egyptian and an 
American spirocha3te, named respectively S. berbera 
and S. novyi, have also been described. Such a 
nomenclature and differentiation can be regarded 
only as provisional : the evidence as yet is far too 
limited to warrant its permanent adoption ; the 
recent elaborate experiments of Todd and Breinl 
have shown that the immunity conferred through 
infection with the spirochretes of Indian relapsing 
fever does not protect against the African form, and 
vice versa, thereby proving that, at least pathologi- 
cally, they are distinct. 

Mode of transmission. I have already re- 
ferred to the Persian disease calh d miana fever, and 
to the carapata disease of the Zambesi valley, as 
forms of relapsing fever. They are certainly com- 
municated by ticks, Argas persicus, or more probably, 
according to Balfour, by Ornithodoros savignyi in 
one case, Ornithodoros moubata in the other. March- 
oux and Salimbeni were the first to show that 
a similar disease of fowls caused by the S. galli- 
narum is transmitted by a tick, the A. miniatus, 
which Neumann pronounces to be identical with, 
or a mere variety of, A . persicus. The relapsing fever 
of Europe has been supposed to be conveyed by the 
common bed bug, Acanthia lectularia ; that of India 
by lice, possibly by mosquitoes, fleas, and bugs ; that 
of Africa by ticks. Proof of transmission by the bug 
is by no means complete. Breinl, Kinghorn, and Todd, 



236 RELAPSING FEVER [CHAP. 

notwithstanding repeated attempts, failed to communi- 
cate the disease by means of these insects. But as 
we have now reason to believe that there are several 
strains of pathogenic spirochsetes producing disease 
in man, it may be that these observers have not 
worked either with the appropriate kind of spiro- 
chsete, or with the appropriate species of Acanthia. 
Thus may we explain the positive results claimed by 
Sikiel, in Odessa, and by other Russian experimenters. 
There can be no doubt from the experiments of Philip 
Ross and Milne in Uganda, of Dutton and Todd 
on the Congo, and of many others, that the African 
species, S. duttoni, is normally conveyed by the tick 
Ornithodoros moubata, and that it can be transmitted 
not only by the animal that has bitten the infected 
individual, but by its progeny. The spirochsete has 
been demonstrated in the egg of the tick by Koch, 
and Leishman describes certain groups of " coccoid 
bodies," which may have been derived from spiro- 
chaetes, in the same situation. It may be in this 
way that the hereditary transmission of the spiro- 
chsete in ticks and lice is effected. According to 
Leishman the spirochsetes are commonly found in 
ticks' eggs laid in the tropics, but not in those laid 
in this country ; but Balfour believes that these eggs 
contain his infective granule (see p. 231). Symptoms 
of a successful infection by the tick appear in from 
five to seven days. 

It would seem that the various insect transmitters 
act merely in a more or less mechanical way and that 
there is no essential biological relationship between 
the parasite and the transmitter, as is the case with 
the malaria parasite and the mosquito, or with the 
trypanosome and the tse-tse fly. The spirochaete is 
abstracted with the blood when the insect transmitter 
feeds ; it multiplies by breaking up into refractile 
granules* in the gut and Malpighian tubes of the 
latter as in a culture-tube, and is afterwards passed 
out with the faeces and deposited on the skin of any 

* Recently doubt has been cast on the validity of Irishman's 
and Balfour's work on this subject by Marchoux and Couvy, who 
conclude that the granules in the tick bear no relation to the 
spirochaetes. 



xn] MODE OF TRANSMISSION 237 

human or other warm-blooded victim on which the 
infected insect may subsequently feed. The irritation 
caused by the bite of the insect provokes scratching 
and consequent inoculation of the deposited spiro- 
chsetes.* The parasite is not introduced by the 
mouth parts of the insect. 

In the case of 0. moubata the hereditarily in- 
fected nymph can communicate the disease (Nuttall). 
The tick itself has been shown to be infective up to a 
year and a half after the initial feed on spirochsete- 
containing blood. 

It is undoubtedly the case that in one part of the 
world the spirochsete of man is transmitted by one 
species of blood-sucker, and in another part of the 
world by another species of blood-sucker ; that the 
various relapsing fever spirochsetes exhibit slight 
morphological differences ; that their serum reactions 
differ ; and that the fevers they cause are in some 
respects different clinically. It is not justifiable, how 
ever, to conclude on these grounds alone that the 
various strains of pathogenic spirochsetes are speci- 
fically distinct. It has been ascertained that as re- 
gards some of the strains their usual transmitters are 
interchangeable. It may well be that the continued 
passage of a given strain through many generations 
of the same species of insect transmitter may confer 
on the spirochsete concerned special morphologic and 
pathogenic qualities, without at the same time trans- 
muting it specifically. Indeed, it would seem, that 
opportunity as supplied by the presence of an efficient 
insect transmitter, the habits and circumstances of 
the inhabitants, and the introduction of a pathogenic 
spirochsete are the principal circumstances that de- 
termine the endemicity or epidemic prevalence of 
relapsing fever; and that the insect transmitter has 
much to do with the pathogenic qualities of the 
organism that has been cultivated in its alimentary 
canal for countless generations. 

* Iii the act of feeding, the tick occasionally voids excrement 
and exudes a few drops of a fluid secreted by the coxal glands 
situated in the first iutercoxal space. The coxal fluid dilutes the 
faeces, thereby facilitating access to the wound inflicted by the 
bite of the tick or by scratching. 



238 RELAPSING FEVER [CHAP. 

Animal experiments. It was generally stated 
that S. recurrentis (S. obermeieri) could be trans- 
ferred only to man and monkey. Novy and Knapp 
infected white mice and white rats. The former 
they found were especially susceptible, the organism 
appearing in the blood within twenty-four hours 
of inoculation and persisting to the third day 
(eighty hours). About this time they disappear for 
several days from the blood of the infected mice and 
until the commencement of relapse. The first relapse 
may be followed by a second, third, or even a fourth, 
the number varying in individual mice ; with each 
relapse the parasites reappear in the blood. The 
interval between the relapses, counting from the first 
appearance of spirochsetes in one to their first appear- 
ance in the next relapse, is generally about seven 
days ; occasionally it is only two ; sometimes it is 
as long as ten days. The number of spirochaetes in 
the relapses is much smaller than in the first paroxysm, 
clearly indicating the development of a partial 
immunity. Recovery in mice, as in other animals, 
is the rule. 

The same observers found rats to be susceptible, 
but in them the progress of the disease was different. 
The period of incubation was longer (forty hours), 
and there were no relapses. As a result of the con- 
secutive passage of the spirochsetes through a long 
series of rats its virulence was augmented, so that 
the incubation period became reduced to fifteen or 
eighteen hours, and the persistence of the parasite in 
the blood prolonged to sixty hours instead of, as 
originally, forty-eight hours ; at the same time the 
spirochsetes became far more abundant. 

The parasite, which is present not only in the 
circulating blood but in all the organs, seems to 
produce no serious pathological change in the rat 
beyond great temporary enlargement of the spleen. 
Recovery is practically invariable. Young rats are 
more susceptible than old rats. Immunity persists 
for many months. 

Rabbits and guineapigs are refractory. 

Immunity. Sabritschewsky in 1896 showed 



xii] IMMUNITY 239 

that when equal parts of spirochsete-infected blood, or 
serum, and normal serum are mixed, the spirochsetes 
survive longer than when the infected blood is mixed 
with that of an individual who has recovered from 
relapsing fever. He accordingly concluded that the 
cause of the crisis in relapsing fever and of subsequent 
immunity was the development of a germicidal sub- 
stance in the blood. He was the first to apply 
serum-therapy in the treatment of relapsing fever. 
He obtained an anti-spirochsete serum by repeated 
inoculation of the horse with human spirochsete- 
containing blood. The value of this serum was 
successfully established by Lowenthal ; of 87 patients 
treated, 43 (49 per cent.) recovered without a 
relapse. 

Novy and Knapp have proved the presence of a 
powerful germicidal substance in relapsing fever 
blood by comparing the viability of the spirochsetes 
in blood taken (1) at the onset of the disease, (2) dur- 
ing crisis, (3) twelve to twenty-four hours after 
disappearance of parasites, and (4) from animals 
hy perimmunized by repeated infection. In the case 
of the first, the spirochsetes live and are mobile for 
forty days, and the blood will continue infective up 
to thirty-seven days ; in the case of the second, no 
living spirochsetes are to be found after twenty-four 
to forty-eight hours ; in the third, the parasites die 
in from thirty to sixty minutes; in the last, they 
are killed instantaneously. 

They further showed, by examining the blood 
during the decline of the fever in an infected animal 
treated with immune blood, that the presence of 
agglutinating and germicidal bodies could be demon- 
strated in vivo from hour to hour. The parasites 
are seen to form agglutination rosettes and long 
agglutination filaments of 70 to 100 p.. . 

Treated in vitro with hyperimmuiie serum the 
spirochretes rapidly become unrecognizable aggrega- 
tions of granules. 

Incubation period. The incubation period 
usually lasts from two to ten days. In some instances 
the attack develops promptly on exposure; it is 



240 RELAPSING FEVER [CHAP. 

never delayed beyond the fourteenth day. In the 
artificially inoculated, symptoms show themselves in 
from two to six days. 

Symptoms. European and Indian type. The 
onset is generally abrupt, being marked by chilliness 
or rigor, giddiness, vomiting, and intense headache. 
In the young there may be convulsions. Temperature 
rises rapidly to 104 or 105 F., sometimes even to 
108. The pulse is rapid, 110 to 130. Should fever 
run high there may be delirium. The skin is dry, 
although, especially during the first day, occasional 
sweats may break out. A slight icteric tinting of 
the conjunctiva is usual ; not infrequently jaundice 
is marked. The spleen is invariably enlarged and 
tender. The tongue is coated and moist except in bad 
cases, in which it may become dry and brown. ' The 
bowels, as a rule, are confined. Occasionally herpes 
labialis is noted, and in certain epidemics a rash of 
rose-coloured spots on the trunk and limbs has been 
observed. Some authors describe petechise. A slight 
bronchitis is not uncommon. The urine, not appre- 
ciably diminished in amount, is very high-coloured. 
This, the primary fever, lasts for from five to seven 
days. At first the morning is usually lower than the 
evening temperature, but on or about the third day 
the evening temperature rarely rises above that of the 
morning. On the fourth, fifth, or sixth day there is 
again a rise of temperature, sometimes with delirium, 
ending in crisis of profuse sweating and diarrhoea. 
The temperature now falls r&pidly to normal or sub- 
normal, sometimes dropping in the course of a few 
hours as much as 10 F. in the latter event, espe- 
cially in elderly or delicate patients, there may be 
dangerous collapse. 

The initial pyrexia, called first paroxysm, is followed 
by & first period of apyrexia during which the patient 
recovers so rapidly that after four or five days it 
may be difficult to keep him in hospital. But from 
seven to nine days after the crisis, that is about the 
fourteenth from the commencement of the attack, 
rigor again occurs, followed by a second attack of 
fever first relapse. This may be more severe than the 



AFRICAN TYPE 241 

initial paroxysm ; usually it is milder and seldom lasts 
so long. During its continuance the secretion of 
urine is considerably increased ; sweating also is pro- 
fuse and prostration marked. 

With the defervescence of the first relapse the 
patient enters on the second period of apyrexia, which 
is usually coincident with convalescence. But in some 
patients a second relapse may occur, usually about the 
twenty-first day counting from the commencement of 
symptoms. This second relapse rarely lasts longer 
than three days, and is generally milder than the 
previous paroxysms. In rare instances three, four, 
five, or even more relapses have been observed. 
Convalescence may be protracted, and complicated 
with such sequelae as nephritis, ophthalmia, otorrhcea, 
pneumonia, neuritis, parotitis, adenitis. In pregnant 
women abortion is the rule. 

African type. The African tick-conveyed spiril- 
lum fever, although as regards the type of fever 
resembling the classical European and Indian forms, 
differs from these in some important particulars. 
The initial fever is not usually so prolonged, generally 
terminating in crisis within three days. Diarrhoea 
and dysenteric symptoms are not uncommon. The 
apyretic intervals are of very irregular duration, 
being, according to Philip Ross, sometimes as short 
as one day, sometimes as long as three weeks ; and 
instead of only one or two relapses, as in ordinary 
relapsing fever, there may be as many as eleven, five 
or six relapses being the rule. The fever, though 
shorter, is as severe in the relapses as in the initial 
paroxysm, but the intervals tend to become longer. 
In some instances the reverse is the case, perhaps in 
both particulars. Sometimes the fever may assume 
a low chronic form, it may be with severe headache 
and vomiting. Iritis is not an uncommon compli- 
cation or sequela. As already stated, the parasites 
are usually very scanty in peripheral blood and may 
be hard to find. 

In the natives of the endemic districts the disease, 
as generally observed, is not nearly so severe as in 
Europeans and strangers, being usually limited to 



Q ^ - 



EVOKE 

osfcy and J 



fegj 

^i 

^ 



00 



E 



^ ^ ~ 

6 W .5 

<3 fe I 

P3 k s 

H S ^ 

cc g ~ 

02 03 I 

K-^ Qj -O 



EUROPE 

Spirochceta recurre 
(obermeieri) 



11 



a || 

1 1 1 



in 



g * 

1 !* 

I ! 

M^ C '^, 

B 2 s >>? 



^oT 
I 



'S 






"T * 



. 

" S g - 



|5. 



UP 



r-^ i >,2 ? 



SrS 



S JsSS 

S O W 33 

I III I 
















2 



l, 












! f!i 
i sii 






IS K S-H 

5-0 jg ^^ 



d.. fs ? 

ill 






* 



IIP 



111 

I fe; 



RELAPSING FEVER 243 

a paroxysm or two of one or two days' duration. 
The mildness of these attacks is probably explained 
by a partial immunity which has been conferred by 
previous attacks. 

For a summary of the symptoms evoked by the 
various strains of relapsing-fever spirochsete, see the 
Table on p. 242. 

Mortality. The death-rate is iisually below 6 per 
cent. In the feeble and old, death may take place 
at the height of the first paroxysm. 

Diagnosis. This disease is readily confounded 
with malaria, enteric, typhus, and influenza. The 
detection of the spirochsetes with the microscope, or 
by animal injection, is the most reliable method of 
diagnosis. At an early stage the relapsing character 
of the clinical phenomena, not having declared itself, is 
not available as an aid to diagnosis, but at a later 
period the history of . a fever which had relapsed 
about fourteen days from the commencement of the 
disease should be regarded as highly suggestive of 
relapsing fever. 

Morbid anatomy. The spLeeii is usually large 
and soft. Liver, kidneys, and heart show cloudy 
swelling. The skin in fatal cases is usually jaundiced, 
and there may be submucous petechue. The bone- 
marrow is hypersemic. There is generally a marked 
polymorphonuclear leucocytosis. 

Treatment. Ehrlich's discovery of the value of 
salvarsan in the treatment of syphilis naturally sug- 
gested that this drug would prove of use in the other 
spirochfete-caused diseases yaws and relapsing fever. 
Fortunately the surmise has proved to be well 
founded. Intravenous injection of from 3 to 6 gr. of 
salvarsan and similar arsenicals in relapsing fever, 
after a short aggravation of symptoms is promptly 
followed by disappearance of the spirochsetes from 
the blood and, in the vast majority of cases, recovery. 
Should relapse occur a rare event a second in- 
jection may be given. 

Atoxyl, so potent against trypanosomiasis, is use- 
less in relapsing fever. 

Methods of administering salvarsan. Salvarsan (dioxy* 



244 RELAPSING FEVER [CHAP. 

diamido-arseno-benzol, " 606 ") is sold as a yellow powder 
hermetically sealed in glass phials. It may be given intra- 
venously, intramuscularly, subcutaneously, or by the mouth 
in alkaline solution. 

Of these, the intravenous and intramuscular methods are 
the ones to be recommended ; the subcutaneous, and occasionally 
the intramuscular, injections are apt to be followed by such 
extensive sloughing as to require surgical interference. 

The intramuscular injection a suspension of the drug in 
oil is generally made into the buttocks : the dose is 7-8 gr. 
(0-4-0-5 grin.) in the male; 4^ gr. (0-3 grra.) in the female, 
and j gr. (0-03-0'04 grm.) for each year of age in children 
is taken as the standard. 

For intravenous injection the glass phial containing 9 gr. 
(0-6 grm.) is taken, the contents carefully added to 50 c.c. 
physiological saline solution (made with freshly distilled water), 
and dissolved thoroughly by adding 18-23 drops of 15-per-cent. 
soda till a precipitate forms which redissolves on addition of 
more soda. The solution should be made up to 300 c.c. In a 
man the whole amount may be injected ; in a woman, 200 c.c. 
or less. 

The vein should be exposed and the needle, attached to a 
funnel and a glass- jointed rubber tubing-, inserted. Care should 
be taken that the funnel and tubing are filled with saline 
beforehand and all air excluded, the flow being controlled by 
a clip or a stopcock. A special apparatus has been devised and 
placed on the market by Martindale. 

It is advisable to run into the vein 100-200 c.c. of normal 
saline first, and then to add the salvarsan solution warmed to 
the temperature of the body. 

Neo-salvarsan is an oxidized product of salvarsan, 5 possess- 
ing the advantage of being less toxic and more soluble ; con- 
sequently it may be given in larger doses, 1 5 gr. being tolerated 
by an adult man. It is, therefore, preferable to the older 
product. It is easily soluble in normal saline, forming a 
neutral solution. 

According to Levaditi the most favourable time for the 
administration of salvarsan is during the "precritical " period 
of the spirochaetal infection, when it causes a precocious crisis, 
thus enabling the organism to combat the infection by the 
usual processes spirocheeticidal bodies and phagocytosis. 

Serum-therapy. Novy and Knapp have proved 
that active immunity follows recovery from spirochsete 
infection, and that this immunity can be increased 
to a remarkable degree by successive injections of 
spirochsete-infected blood. They have further shown 
that passive immunity can be imparted by the in- 
jection of recovered or of hyperimmunized blood, and 
that both active and passive immunity persist for 



xn] TICKS 245 

months. Preventive inoculations have been success- 
fully practised in rats, mice, and monkeys. Infected 
animals can be promptly cured by the injection of 
hyperimmimized serum, and relapses can be prevented 
by the same means. Although Todd has not been so 
successful in similar experiments, it seems probable 
that we have in these observations a basis for the 
prevention and cure of relapsing fever in man. 

Prevention The fact that the spirochsete is con- 
veyed to man by bug, or louse, or tick bite indicates that 
personal and domestic cleanliness and the avoidance 
of people and places infested with such vermin must 
form the basis of successful prophylaxis. Especially 
to be avoided in Africa are the resting-places of 
caravans and travellers, and the huts of natives. 
The mosquito net, a bed well off the ground, and 
a night-light are indispensable in that country, where 
the nocturnal habits of Ornithodoros moubata render 
the hours of sleep especially dangerous. 

TICKS 

Recent developments in human and veterinary pathology 
have shown that ticks play an important part in the 
transmission of disease. They are widely distributed, 
almost every animal either having species special to itself 
or heing liahle to attack by species of a wider zoological 
range. They belong to the order of the Acarina, of which 
they are by far the largest forms. They are always visible to 
the naked eye, and the females are almost invariably larger 
than the males. In some species the ovigerous females, when 
gorged with blood, may reach a length of nearly half an inch. 
As a rule they are temporary parasites, but some live in a 
quasi-permanent manner on the body of their host ; and 
occasionally a few, as the sheep tick, Ixodes reduvius (Plate 
VI., 2), may even burrow beneath the skin. They differ from 
insects in possessing four pairs of legs, and in having the 
three regions of the body head, thorax, and abdomen fused 
into one unarticulated mass. This latter feature also dis- 
tinguishes them from the spiders, in which the abdomen is 
clearly distinct from the cephalothorax. 

After impregnation the female tick attaches herself to her 
host. Becoming enormously distended with its blood, she 
drops off and secretes herself in some convenient hiding-place 
where she deposits her eggs, which are small, yellowish, roe- 
like grains, amounting in some cases to thousands. Oviposition 
begins from two to ten days after the host has been quitted, 
and goes on for several days. In due course (two or three weeks 
under favourable conditions) the eggs are hatched. The larva? 



246 TICKS [CHAP. 

look like minute moving grains of sand. They are character- 
ized by having only three pairs of legs, no stigmata, and no 
sexual orifice. A suitable opportunity presenting, the larva 
attaches itself to its vertebrate host. After a period of growth 
it goes through a first moult (ecdysis), and emerges from its 
larval skin as a nympha, provided with eight legs instead of 
six, and with a pair of large stigmata placed, one cm. each side 
of the body, behind the fourth pair of legs. After a second 
period of growth and a second moult it becomes sexually 
mature. In some species, as in the case of Margaropus bovis, 
the metamorphosis from larva to nymph, and from nymph to 
imago, takes place upon the same host, the parasite remaining 
attached during the process. In other species, as in the case 
of Hiemaphy sails leachi, the tick, before each moult, drops off 
as soon as it ceases feeding, and in conseqxience has to find a 
host three times during its life instead of once. Having 
reached maturity, the sexes unite. After fertilization the male 
dies, but the female proceeds to engorge herself with blood for 
the development of her ova. 

On account of the difficulty of finding an appropriate 
host, ticks at all stages are endowed with a phenomenal 
capacity for fasting. Megnin found Argas persicits alive after 
a fast of four years' duration. 

Ticks are referable to two families, the Ixodida and 
Argasidcc, differing both in structure and in life habits. Their 
characteristics and generic classification are indicated suf- 
ficiently for practical purposes in the synoptical Table on 
p. 248. 

The species which are of particular interest to the human 
pathologist are Ornithodoros moubata, 0. savignyi, Argas persicus, 
and Dermatocentor venustus the first two being the transmitters 
of tbe spirochaete of African relapsing fever; the third, of the 
spirochrete of the miana disease (Balfour). It is quite likely 
that other species will in the future ba found to be concerned 
in the transmission of disease germs to man. Important 
animal diseases due to 8piroch&t<9 and Babesia are also known 
to have tick transmitters. Spirochceta gallinarum of fowls in 
Brazil is transmitted by Argas miniatus. Babesia bi gemma 
(bovis) is conveyed in various countries by different species of 
Margaropns, such as M. annulatm (Plate VI., 1), M. amtralis, 
M. decoloratus ; Theileria parva by Rhipicephalus appendiculatus 
and R. simus ; Babesia ovis by 7?. bursa ; Nuttallia cqni by R. 
evertsi, and Babesia canis by HatmaphysaHs leachi and Derma- 
centor reticulatns. 

Ol'llitllOfloros lllOllbata (Murray) (0. savignyi 
var. cceca, Neumann) is extensively distributed throughout 
tropical Africa (Plate VI., 3). Its body is rotund and is oval 
in outline. Its colour, when alive, is greenish brown. The 
integument is hard, leathery, covered with close-set shining 
granules or tubercles, and marked both above and below with 
symmetrically arranged grooves. The females may attain 
about 8 mm, in length by 6 to 7 mm. in breadth, and moult 





TEKZI 



Ticks (females). 

1. Margaropus (Boophilus) annulatus (partially distended) ; 2, Ixodes 
reduyius (partially distended) ; 3, Ornithodoros moubata ; 4. Argas 
persicus. 

PLATE VI . 



xii] TICKS 247 

frequently,. This species is widely distributed in Africa, from 
Uganda and Somaliland in the east, and Congo and Angola 
in the west, to Namaqualand and the Transvaal in the south. 

In habit Orntthodoros monbata resembles the common bed- 
bug. It lives in the huts of the natives, hiding during the day 
in cracks in the walls and floors, or in the thatched roofs, and 
moving about actively during the night in search of nourish- 
ment. It attacks both man and beast. It feeds slowly, and 
would be unable to get much blood from any but a sleeping 
person. Dutton and Todd observed that a big female might 
remain, firmly fixed, feeding on a monkey for two or three 
hours before it finally dropped off, distended to the size of a 
cherry. 0. moubato deposits its eggs in batches of fifty, seventy, 
or a hundred. Dissection has shown that only a few eggs 
mature at a time. The fertility of the female is favoured by 
liberal feeding. The females lay batches of eggs after each 
feed, but do not continue to moult. The eggs hatch in about 
twenty days. In the case of this tick, Dutton and Todd have 
observed that the larval stage is practically omitted. About 
seven days after oviposition the hexapod larva can be seen 
to be forming within the translucent egg-shell. About the 
thirteenth day the egg-shell splits, and about the same time 
the larval skin splits also, and the eight-legged nymph throws 
off simultaneously both the egg-shell and its larval skin. 
There are several nymphal stages ; the exact number has not 
been clearly ascertained. The largest nyrnphs may equal 
adults in size, and show a punctiform mark where the sexual 
orifice is situated in the adult. 

An interesting feature, and one perhaps having a bearing 
on the etiology of tick-transmitted diseases, pointing as it 
does to a channel by which the egg.s may receive a germ 
ingested by the parent, concerns certain cells in the stomach 
wall. The tick, while feeding, from time to time expels per 
an uni a whitish material. This excretion is derived partly 
from the Malpighian tubes, and partly from the cells alluded 
to. In the stomach wall, nourished by the imbibed blood, 
these cells elongate towards the cavity of the ventricle; the 
other end, smaller and becoming clavate, splits and emits the 
elaborated nutriment into the general body cavity, where it 
mixes with the blood of the tick. The cell then, becoming 
globular, drops into the lumen of the stomach, constituting part 
of the white excretion expelled per anum. One can readily 
understand how, by the former route, a parasite could reach 
the tissues of 1 he tick, including the ovaries. Ealfour has in- 
fected chickens with 8. galllnarum by feeding them on eggs of 
infected Argas miniatus (ptrtiettf). 

0. moubata is especially common along the routes of travel. 
The rest-houses are always the most infested. The ticks are 
frequently carried long distances in mats or bedding, or in 
porters' loads which have been piled for safety in the rest- 
huts at night. 

The natives of some places, and also the Boers, protept 




S2|2 %* -i 

~ i a -a -. * a 



I S* 



III 



iin 

'-Jl IP f 

sii ^|, y 

- - "* *fl ..-2 



S2 is^S-l 
li|mMi k K 

llil!*llliH 

^l^tiiii=^ w 

O V 



a - 




I 3 



.5 

43 

5 | 

5 5 
o 

f! 

s '^ 






es 

p 



Hi 

00 



TICKS 249 

themselves by plastering their huts, both floors and walls, with 
mud and cow-dung. The huts are also frequently smoked in 
order to drive the ticks from the thatch. A most valuable 
remedy for immediate use is the powder of the pyrethrum 
flower, which should be dusted between the sheets of the bed. 
Some protection may be obtained by keeping a lamp alight by 
the bedside throughout the night. 

In certain parts of Africa the distribution of 0. moubata is 
overlapped by that of a closely allied species, O. savignyi, 
which is more diurnal in its habits and seems to have a 
predilection for market-places, cattle-stands, etc. 0. savignyi 
differs from 0. moubata in being provided with eyes, in having 
larger processes on the legs, and a more minutely pitted dorsal 
surface. 0. saviynyi has been recorded from Egypt, Nubia, 
Abyssinia, Somaliland, British East Africa, etc., as well as 
from southern Asia. It also may be concerned in the trans- 
mission of African relapsing fever or other disease. Its bite 
is dreaded by the natives. 

Argas persictlS (Fischer), A. miniatus (Koch) (Plate 
VI., 4), has a flat, thin, oval body of a yellowish, greenish, 
or reddish colour, spotted on the back with a great many 
white granulations; the legs are pale yellow. Its distribu- 
tion is cosmopolitan ; it is found more commonly in the north 
and east of Persia, also in Syria, Turkestan, Russia, China, 
Algeria, and Cape Colony, in North and South America and 
the West Indies, West Australia, and Queensland. It attacks 
both poultry and human beings. Its habits are similar to 
those of Ornithodoros moubata ; it infests old houses, living in 
the cracks of walls and floors. I^otzebue says that in Persia 
it may so infest villages as to drive out the inhabitants. 



CHAPTER XIII 
YELLOW FEVER 

Definition. An acute, specific, very fatal febrile 
disease occurring epidemically, or as an endemic, within 
a peculiarly limited geographical area. Though sub- 
ject to great variations, its typical clinical manifest- 
ation may be said to be characterized by a definite 
course consisting of an initial stage of a sthenic nature, 
rapidly followed by an adynamic condition in which 
such evidences of blood destruction as black vomit, 
albuminuria, and hsematogenous jaundice are liable 
to occur. One attack generally confers permanent 
immunity. The germ is transmitted by the domestic 
mosquito, Stegomyia calopus ($. fasciatci). 

Geographical distribution. Of all the im- 
portant zymotic diseases, yellow fever has the most 
restricted geographical range. Its centre is the West 
Indies, whence it spreads north to the United States 
and Mexico ; south to the Brazils and, at times, as 
far as Buenos Ayres and Monte Video ; west to 
Central America, and across the Isthmus of Panama 
to the Pacific coast, along which it extends north to 
the Gulf of California and south to Peru. It occurs 
also, in epidemic form, on the West Coast of Africa, 
where it appears to be endemic. It is impossible to 
determine from existing records whether yellow fever 
was originally an African or a West Indian disease. 

Yellow fever has been imported frequently into 
Portugal and Spain, and once from Spain into 
Italy. Although a good many died in these visita- 
tions, the disease has never obtained a permanent 
footing in Europe. Cases have occurred in seaport 
towns in France and Great Britain - Brest and 
Swansea, for example ; invariably, however, these 
little epidemics have died out. 

In several of the West India Islands yellow fever is 
250 



EPIDEMIOLOGY 251 

endemic. Until recently it was always to be found in 
Havana. Formerly the Brazils enjoyed an absolute 
immunity; but from 1849, when yellow fever was 
introduced for the first time into Bahia by a ship from 
New Orleans, it was practically endemic in the large 
cities until the institution of anti-stegomyia measures 
recently. At Rio de Janeiro, although in some years 
the cases were few, it was never entirely absent. It 
is still very common in Manaos. In such places as 
New Orleans, Charleston, Monte Video, and Buenos 
Ayres, although now and again epidemics of great 
severity break out, several years may pass without 
its appearing. Some of these epidemic visitations 
bring a heavy death-bill ; thus, in New Orleans, in 
1853, 7,970 people died of yellow fever ; in 1867, 
3,093. In Rio, in 1850, it claimed 4,160 victims ; in 
1852, 1,943; and in 1886, 1,397. In Havana the 
annual mortality from this cause used to range from 
500 to 1,600 or over. 

Epidemiology. Influence of atmosj)keric tem- 
perature. The histories of these and other epidemics 
show that the virus of yellow fever can be transported 
from one place to another, and that for its develop- 
ment in epidemic form it requires an atmospheric 
temperature of over 75 F. It ceases to spread 
when the thermometer sinks below this point, and it 
stops abruptly as an epidemic when the freezing-point 
is reached. Dampness favours yellow fever; it is 
therefore most prone to occur and to spread during 
the rainy season. 

Usually a sea-coast disease. The favourite haunts 
of the disease are the sea-coast towns, the banks of 
rivers, and flat delta country. Rarely does it pass far 
inland, or ascend high ground. Still, there have been 
exceptions to this general rule ; for yellow fever lias 
been found far inland, and at a considerable elevation 
(Sao Paulo, Brazil, 2,500 feet ; Newcastle, Jamaica, 
3,000-4,000 feet; Cuzco, Peru, 9,000-10,000 feet). 
Villages are seldom affected ; nor does the disease 
readily spread if introduced into rural localities. In 
spreading inland it follows the lines of communica- 
tion railways, canals, navigable rivers. 



252 YELLOW FEVER [CHAP. 

A skip disease. Ship epidemics were common 
occurrences formerly. The ideal haunt of yellow 
fever is the low-lying, hot, squalid, insanitary dis- 
trict in the neighbourhood of the wharfs and docks 
of large seaport towns. 

A place disease. It is, in a sense, a place disease 
like malaria. That is to say, if the patient be re- 
moved to a hitherto unaffected spot, his attendants 
and neighbours will not contract the disease, unless 
the spot itself first become infected. The occurrence 
of this place infection will depend on whether the par- 
ticular locality affords in sufficient numbers the appro- 
priate intermediary the stegomyia mosquito for 
the transmission of the germ brought by the patient. 
If the locality supplies this condition, then, for the 
time being, the disease will spread and become epi- 
demic ; if the locality does not supply this condition, 
then the disease will not spread. It is safe, therefore, 
to visit a yellow fever patient if he is lodged outside 
the endemic or epidemic area; but it is never safe 
for the susceptible to visit the endemic area, whether 
they come into direct contact with the sick or not. 

Immunity acquired by prolonged residence or by 
a previous attack. A well-established fact about 
yellow fever is that the natives of, and those who 
have lived for a long time in, the endemic area are 
practically immune from the disease ; or, if they are 
attacked, the disease is usually of a very mild type. 
It is also said that if the native quits the endemic area 
his immunity decreases in proportion to the length of 
time he remains away ; so that, after long absence, on 
his return to the endemic area he may be attacked just 
as an ordinary visitor might be. Further, those who 
enter the endemic area for the first time are the most 
susceptible, the susceptibility decreasing with length 
of residence. It has been inferred from this, perhaps 
but not certainly correctly, that at such places 
as Rio and Havana the endemicity of the disease was 
kept up by the continual influx of foreign and, there- 
fore, susceptible visitors. 

Race as influencing susceptibility. Formerly it was 
believed that the negro is little liable to yellow fever, 



xin] INCUBATION PERIOD 253 

and that when he gets it the attack is usually mild ; and 
also that the yellow-skinned races are more susceptible 
than the negro, but less so than the European. It 
was also said that the susceptibility of the European 
increases in proportion to the height of the latitude 
of his native place ; that is, the Norwegian is 
more susceptible than the Frenchman, and the 
Frenchman more than the Italian or the Spaniard. 
The facts on which this belief was founded may 
admit of another and more rational explanation than 
that of varying degrees of racial susceptibility ; rela- 
tive racial susceptibility may be more a matter of 
racial opportunity than of colour of skin. We now 
know that the negro from a non-endemic place 
Barbados, for example is just as liable as the Euro- 
pean to an attack of yellow fever should he visit an 
endemic or epidemic area. 

Incubation period. The incubation period of 
yellow fever rarely exceeds four or five days ; it may, 
it is said, be much shorter under twenty-four hours. 
The limits, according to Berenger-Feraud, are one to 
fifteen days in the temperate zones, one to thirty 
days in the tropics. Precise experiments indicate an 
average incubation of from three to five days, and an 
extreme limit of thirteen days. Occasionally it happens 
that the disease breaks out in a ship after she has 
been several weeks at sea, having had no communica- 
tion with the land or with another ship in the mean- 
time. The rationale of this, and also of the prolonged 
incubation periods formerly assigned by writers to the 
disease, we now understand. It must not be inferred 
from these ship epidemics that the incubation period 
is to be reckoned in weeks. Infected mosquitoes 
may have been in the ship from the time she left 
port, but the crew may not have been bitten and 
infected until long afterwards. 

Incubation period preceding epidemic extension. 
It has been observed that a period of at least a 
fortnight elapses between the arrival of a yellow-fever 
patient in a hitherto uninfected district and the 
occurrence of the first case of the epidemic he may 
give rise to. That is to say, that although, as stated 



YELLOW FEVER [CHAP. 

above, the incubation period of yellow fever the 
period elapsing between the introduction of the virus 
into the body and the on-coming of fever is usually 
only from three to five days, yet a period of at least 
twelve days must elapse before that virus, after 
removal from one human body, can be effectively 
implanted in another human body. What becomes 
of it during these twelve days ? The answer to this 
question has now been supplied, and with it the key 
to most of the epidemiological peculiarities of yellow 
fever. 

Duration of the infective period. This is singu- 
larly brief. A yellow-fever patient is dangerous to 
his neighbours only during the first three or four 
days of the disease. After this he cannot confer 
infection. 

The germ. A great many attempts have been 
made to discover the germ or virus of yellow fever, 
and a corresponding variety of organisms have been 
described. In the belief that some of these were 
the true germs, certain bacteriologists went the length 
of practising protective inoculation with attenuated 
cultures of their respective organisms, whilst others 
elaborated curative sera on the orthodox lines. Both 
sets of enthusiasts have claimed successes. We now 
know, however, that the germ of yellow fever is not 
a bacterium, at all events is not a visible bacterium, 
and that it cannot be cultivated or modified on the 
ordinary bacteriological lines. Freire's Cryptococcus 
xanthogenicus, Finlay's Tetragenus febris flava, and 
Sanarelli's Bacillus icteroides have no longer anything 
but an historical interest. 

At the instigation of the Government of the 
United States, these and other organisms were 
rigidly investigated by Sternberg, whose standing as 
a bacteriologist and whose judicial cast of mind 
eminently qualified him for forming a trustworthy 
judgment. His verdict on them, and on many similar 
organisms for which pathogenic claims had been 
advanced, was unfavourable. 

Seidelin has recently described certain very minute 
and somewhat indefinite supposed bodies in the red 



xm] THE GERM 255 

blood-corpuscles in yellow fever, which he has named 
Paraplasma Jlavigenum, and which he regards as 
the germ of the disease. So far, this claim has 
not been accepted by yellow-fever experts, and is not 
supported by convincing experimental evidence. 

Nature of the yellow - fever germ indicated by 
epidemiology. In earlier editions of this book I 
remarked, " The reasons for the peculiar geographical 
limitation of yellow fever are but partially under- 
stood. A principal reason, undoubtedly, is that 
yellow fever belongs to a somewhat restricted class 
of diseases which, though communicable, are not 
directly so through immediate conduction from sick 
to sound ; diseases whose germs do not pass quickly 
from the sick to the healthy, like those of scarlatina 
and smallpox, but have first, apparently, to undergo 
extracorporeally developmental changes that enable 
them to attack and to live in the human body. Such 
diseases, seeing that their propagation demands an 
additional condition the extracorporeal state or 
medium must necessarily be more difficult to acquire, 
must spread more slowly, and be more limited 
geographically, than the ordinary infectious diseases." 
These remarks, suggested by the peculiar epidemio- 
logical features of yellow fever, have received 
remarkable confirmation from the brilliant work of 
Reed, Carroll, Agramonte, and Guiteras, and by 
many subsequent workers. 

The germ occurs in the blood. This has been 
incontestably demonstrated by Reed, Carroll, and 
Agramonte. They injected into six non-immunes 
blood from yellow-fever patients. In this way, in five 
instances, they conferred the disease within the re- 
cognized limits of the incubation period. In another 
experiment they induced yellow fever by injection 
of defibrinated blood. By other experiments they 
showed that the virulence of the blood was de- 
stroyed by a temperature of 55 C. Another point, 
already alluded to, is that these experiments, taken in 
conjunction with others to be presently described, 
showed that the germ is present in the blood, at all 
events in a transferable state, only during the first 



256 YELLOW FEVER [CHAP. 

three or four days of the disease. Yet another point 
these experimenters sought to establish, viz. that 
this phase of the yellow -fever germ is so minute 
that it can pass through a Berkefeld filter. Further, 
that blood from a yellow -fever infection produced 
by injection of filtered serum will, on being injected 
into another non-immune, again confer the disease; 
proving that the virus so conveyed was capable of 
multiplying that is to say, that it is not a toxin or 
chemical body merely, but that it is a living germ. 
These latter inferences are deduced from what was 
practically only one experiment. Although the evi- 
dence, therefore, is somewhat meagre, yet, considering 
the high order of the other work accomplished in 
the same field by these American and subsequent 
observers, we are almost justified in concluding with 
them that, like the germ of rinderpest, of horse- 
sickness, and of foot-and-mouth disease, at least one 
phase of the yellow-fever germ as it exists in the 
blood, though particulate, is ultramicroscopic. 

The mosquito the intermediary and diffusing 
agent of the germ of yellow fever. Having satisfied 
themselves by direct observations, and by a long series 
of carefully conducted culture experiments on the 
blood, that the germ of yellow fever was not of an 
ordinary bacterial nature, guided by the epidemio- 
logical considerations detailed above, and encouraged 
by the recent discoveries in the etiology of malaria, 
the American observers thought that possibly, as in 
malaria, the mosquito was an essential factor in the 
life cycle of the yellow-fever germ, as Finlay had 
conjectured many years before. After some pre- 
liminary experiments, which unfortunately proved 
fatal to Dr. Lazear, one of the original members of 
this courageous band of observers, carefully planned 
systematic attempts were made to convey yellow 
fever by means of the bite of the common West 
Indian mosquito, Stegomyia calopus (S. fasciata). 
Twelve non-immunes, who had had no opportunity 
of contracting the disease from other sources, were 
bitten by mosquitoes previously fed on yellow-fever 
patients. Of the men so bitten, ten (83 -3 per cent.) 



xin] GERM AND MOSQUITO 257 

developed the disease within the normal incubation 
limits three to five days. Subsequently Guiteras 
and others, on repeating this experiment, have ob- 
tained similar results. 

The germ not transferable by recently injected 
mosquitoes. As might have been partly expected 
from the blood inoculation experiments already 
described, it was found that it was only mosquitoes 
that had fed during the first three days of the fever 
that were infective. It was further demonstrated that 
the germ must undergo in the mosquito some necessary 
developmental process, for it was not until twelve 
days had elapsed after feeding on yellow-fever blood 
that the experimental insects could convey infection. 
Repeated trials made with mosquitoes two to ten 
days after they had so fed invariably gave negative 
results ; whereas the same insects rarely failed to 
infect when set to bite non-immunes at any time 
subsequent to the twelfth day after their yellow- 
fever blood meal. It was also proved that they 
retained their infective power for at least fifty-seven 
days. 

These experiments fully explain (1) The im- 
punity with which a yellow -fever patient can be 
visited by a non-immune if outside the endemic area ; 
the mosquitoes in the vicinity are not infective. (2) 
The danger of visiting the endemic area, especially at 
night ; the mosquitoes there are infective and active. 
(3) The discrepancy between the incubation period, 
three to five days, of the disease, and the incubation 
period, fourteen days and over, of an epidemic ; the 
necessary evolution of the germ in the mosquitoes 
infected by the original introducing patient demand- 
ing the space of time indicated by the difference 
between these two periods. (4) The clinging of 
yellow-fever infection to ships, buildings, and locali- 
ties ; the persistence of the germ in infected mos- 
quitoes (Stegomyia calopus) which are known to be 
capable of surviving for five months and probably 
longer, after feeding on blood. (5) The high atmo- 
spheric temperature required for the epidemic exten- 
sion of yellow fever; such temperature favours the 
j 



258 YELLOW FEVER [CHAP. 

activities and propagation of the mosquito, and is 
probably also necessary for the evolution of the 
germ in the mosquito. 

Since the announcement of these discoveries many 
independent observers and several commissions have 
studied yellow fever in its relation to the mosquito, 
but, beyond confirming the results of the original 
American observers and adding some facts in ^the 
bionomics of S. fasciata, there has been no great 
addition to our knowledge of the subject. The germ 
itself is still unrevealed. 

Marchoux and Simond have given us several new 
facts about the yellow-fever germ. They have shown 
that, although it is arrested by the Chamberland 
bougie B, it can pass bougie F ; that it will not 
infect if simply laid on a raw (blistered) surface ; to 
secure infection it must be injected subcutaneously ; 
that virulent blood-serum loses its virulence in forty- 
eight hours if exposed to the air at 24 to 30 C., 
but if protected by oil or vaseline will retain it for 
five days. 

As regards S. calopus, the same observers note 
that to lay eggs she must first have a feed of blood, 
and that her eggs are deposited about three days 
after she has so fed. Before the first egg-laying, S. 
calopus is both diurnal and nocturnal in her feeding 
habits, biting at any time; subsequently she is strictly 
nocturnal in this respect. Therefore a stegomyia that 
bites during the day does not convey yellow fever. 
She is too young ; any parasite she may harbour is 
immature. In this way is to be explained the im- 
punity with which a yellow-fever centre may be visited 
during the day, although the visitor may be bitten 
by stegomyia. Europeans who live at Petropolis, 
a suburb of Rio de Janeiro, and are in the habit of 
visiting and transacting their business in the low- 
lying yellow-fever-haunted districts of the city, never 
contract the disease unless they are so imprudent 
as to pass the night in the latter. Marchoux and 
Simond further state that an infected stegomyia can 
communicate the yellow-fever germ to her eggs and 
so to the second generation of mosquitoes, and that 



xin] SYMPTOMS 259 

the latter become infective to man fourteen days 
after the hatching. 

The parallelism between the etiology of yellow 
fever and that of malaria is very complete, and 
encourages ' the conjecture that the germ, like that 
of malaria, is of a protozoal nature ; that as a re- 
sult of a sexual process it undergoes growth and 
development in the mosquito ; and that the sporozoites 
resulting from this process are emitted in the sali- 
vary secretion of the infected mosquito when, at 
any time subsequent to the completion of the de- 
velopmental process, she proceeds to feed on blood. 
Although the germ of yellow fever as it occurs in the 
blood may be ultramicroscopic, the analogy of the 
malaria parasite favours the idea that in the insect 
it may grow to a visible size, and that although 
search in the blood for the cause of this grave disease 
hitherto has proved unsuccessful, it may yet be 
demonstrated in the tissues of the mosquito. Further, 
as several species of mosquito of the sub-family Anophe- 
lince have been shown to foster the malaria parasite, it 
is not improbable that several species of the genus 
Stegomyia may turn out to be effective intermediaries 
for the germ of yellow fever. * 

Symptoms. There is the same variety in the 
initial symptoms of yellow fever as in other 
specific fevers. There may be sudden rigor super- 
vening in the midst of apparent health ; there may 
be only slight chills ; or there may be a period of 
premonitory malaise leading up to the more pro- 
nounced symptoms. When fairly started, the proces- 
sion of events is rapid. 

Roughly speaking, and provided there are no 
complications, an attack of yellow fever is divisible 
into three stages 1, the initial fever; 2, "the 
period of calm," as it is called ; and 3, in severe 
cases, the period of reaction. 

The initial fever lasts usually from three to four 
days. The maximum temperature is generally at- 
tained within the first twenty-four hours, or by the 
second day, and, in a case of medium severity, may 
* In Africa, S. afrikana, S. argenta-punctata, S. sugens. 



260 YELLOW FEVER [CHAP. 

rise to about 103 or 104 F. During the three or 
four succeeding days the mercury slowly sinks to 
98 or 99, the daily fluctuations being seldom more 
than half to one degree. It occasionally happens 
that high temperature is maintained for two or three 
days, and also that the maximum is not attained 
till the third day ; as a rule the thermometer behaves 
as described, the maximum being reached within a 
few hours of the onset of the disease. 

With or soon after the initial chill or rigor, 
severe headache sets in, and is generally a prominent 
feature. For the most part the pain is concentrated 
about the forehead, in the circumorbital region and 
in the eyeballs themselves. In many cases it is 
associated with intolerance of light. 

Loin pain is another very distressing symptom ; 
it may amount to positive agony. The legs, too, 
ache excessively particularly the calves, knees, and 
ankles ; they feel as if broken. Epigastric pain is 
generally a prominent symptom. 

The face is flushed and swollen ; the eyes are 
shining, injected, and ferrety ; the skin is dry. 

What with pain and febrile distress, the patient 
rapidly passes into a very miserable condition. He is 
restless and continually tossing about. 

At first the pulse ranges from 100 to 120, and 
is full and strong ; but as the disease progresses the 
pulse loses its sthenic character, gradually falling in 
force and frequency until, at the " period of calm," it 
becomes remarkably slow and compressible, beating 
perhaps only 30 or 40 times per minute. 

At the outset the tongue is not very dirty, but 
it soon acquires a white coating on the dorsum, the 
edges remaining clean. It is not so swollen and flabby 
as in malarial fever ; on the contrary, it is rather 
small and pointed throughout the disease. This is 
regarded as an important diagnostic mark ; taken 
along with the progressive diminution in the strength 
and frequency of the pulse, and the peculiar behaviour 
of the temperature, it is nearly conclusive as to the 
disease being yellow fever. Later, the tongue dries, 
and, at the same time, thirst becomes intolerable. 



xin] SYMPTOMS 261 

The palate is congested and swollen ; the gums may 
also swell and bleed. 

The congested appearance of the face at the onset 
of the disease tends to subside ; so that by the time 
the asthenic stage is reached the features may have 
become shrunken and small, the eyes sunken, and the 
eyelids discoloured by ecchymoses. 

In some cases the skin is hot and dry throughout ; 
in others it may be bedewed with perspiration from 
time to time; or the sweating may be constant, 
especially so if collapse sets in. 

By the third day the sclerse assume a yellowish 
tinge, and very often the skin acquires the yellow 
colour from which the disease derives its name. It 
must not be understood, however, that every case 
presents this colour of skin ; in some it is entirely 
absent, but if carefully looked for there is always 
some yellowness of the sclerae to be discovered. The 
yellow tinging of the skin generally shows about 
the end of the first stage, deepening in intensity 
as the case advances, and remaining apparent for 
a considerable time after convalescence has become 
established. It ranges in depth from a light saffron 
tint to a deep mahogany brown. In fatal cases it 
is always present ; not necessarily during life, but 
invariably after death. The skin in bad cases is 
said to emit a peculiar odour like gun washings, or, 
as Jackson puts it, like the smell of a fish market. 

Petechia], erythematous, papular, and other erup- 
tions may show themselves in different cases ; but in 
yellow fever there is no characteristic eruption, unless 
it be an erythematous congestion of scrotum or vulva, 
which occurs in a proportion of cases and is said to 
be diagnostic. 

An important feature, from the diagnostic as well 
as from the prognostic point of view, is the appearance, 
in some cases almost from the outset of the disease, 
of albumin in the urine, together with a tendency to 
suppression. In mild cases these features may be 
little marked ; but in severe cases, particularly during 
the stage of depression, the urine may fall to a few 
ounces, and be loaded with albumin to the extent of 



262 YELLOW FEVEK [CHAP. 

one-half or even two-thirds. The more pronounced 
these symptoms, the graver is the prognosis. Urea 
(even during the incubation period) and uric acid are 
very much diminished, the former in severe cases 
falling to 1 -5 grm. to the litre. The urine is almost 
invariably acid, depositing granular casts, and giving 
spectroscopic evidence of haemoglobin. Bile pigments 
show themselves towards the end of the disease ; 
their appearance is regarded as a favourable omen. 
Haemorrhage from kidneys or urinary tract is not 
uncommon. 

Delirium may occur, but is not an invariable 
feature. Usually, after the initial stage of restlessness 
and acute suffering, the patient becomes torpid, and 
perhaps taciturn. In bad cases, coma, subsultus, etc., 
may gradually supervene, the temperature rising as 
death approaches and even after death. 

At the outset the bowels are confined. In the 
second stage diarrhoea, perhaps of black material re- 
sembling the vomit, may supervene; or there may 
be actual haemorrhage of bright-red blood from the 
bowel. 

The well-known black vomit always a grave 
symptom, but fortunately not by any means an in- 
variable one forms one of the most striking features 
of this disease. In the earlier stages of the fever 
vomiting of bilious matters is a common occurrence. 
This may subside, or, after a time, give place to a 
coffee-ground vomit which seems to gush up with- 
out straining or effort on the patient's part, and 
which gradually deepens in colour until it becomes 
uniformly black. On microscopical examination the 
vomited material is found to consist of broken-down 
blood corpuscles and altered haemoglobin suspended 
in a yellowish mucoid fluid. This material is, doubt- 
less, in the main derived from blood transuded 
through the walls of the capillaries of the mucous 
membrane of the stomach. It is intensely acid. 
Though the black vomit may not always be seen 
in fatal cases during life, it is invariably found in 
the stomach on post-mortem examination. 

Sometimes pure blood is thrown up from the 



xin] PROGNOSIS 263 

stomach ; similar passive haemorrhages may take 
place from almost any part of the body from eyes, 
ears, nose, mouth, bladder, uterus, and so on. 

Death may occur during the early acute stage, 
being preceded by a rapid rise of temperature. 

In mild cases the "period of calm," which sets 
in after the subsidence of the initial fever, may last 
for several days before convalescence is established. 
In such, recovery once begun is usually very rapid ; 
in a week from the beginning of the disease the 
patient may be about again. In severe cases, how- 
ever, the period of calm is followed by a third stage, 
the stage of reaction, in which the temperature 
again rises, though not to so high a point as in the 
initial fever, and a sort of remitting fever of an 
adynamic type keeps on for several days or weeks. 
This secondary fever is more prolonged if there 
is any complication, such as abscess, boils, paro- 
titis, buboes, hepatitis, and so forth. The icterus is 
now very pronounced ; black vomit may recur, or 
appear for the first time ; perhaps a profuse diarrhrea 
ends in collapse ; or the urine may be suppressed, 
stupor, coma, and other nervous symptoms ensuing, 
and very often ending in death. In other instances 
the secondary fever terminates in a crisis of sweating 
and a prolonged convalescence. 

Relapse may occur at any time up to two or three 
weeks after the subsidence of the initial fever. It is 
specially prone to occur if the patient has been guilty 
of any dietetic imprudence during the period of calm 
a period at which the appetite may return to some 
extent. Relapses are very dangerous. 

Prognosis and mortality. Prolonged initial 
rigors, algidity, convulsions, suppression of urine, 
coma, haemorrhages, are all unfavourable symptoms. 
The prognosis is good if the temperature during the 
initial fever does not exceed 103 to 105 F. It is 
better for women (although, if pregnant, abortion 
is almost invariable) and children than for men ; 
better for old residents than for new-comers ; worst 
of all for the intemperate. According to a table 
given by Sternberg, of 269 carefully observed cases 



264 YELLOW FEVER [CHAP. 

there were no deaths in 44 cases in which the tem- 
perature did not rise over 103 ; per contra, in 22 
cases in which the thermometer rose over 106 there 
were no recoveries. Of 36 in which the temperature 
rose to between 105 and 106, 22 died ; of 80 with 
maximum temperatures between 104 and 105, 24 
died ; and of 87 in which it ranged between 103 and 
104, only 6 died. The mean mortality in the whole 
269 cases was 27*7 per cent. Although in some 
epidemics it has risen as high as 50 or even 80 per 
cent, of those attacked, the foregoing may be taken 
as a fairly representative mortality in yellow fever 
among the unacclimatized something between 25 
and 30 per cent. Among the permanent inhabitants 
of the endemic districts the case-mortality is very 
much lower 7 to 10 per cent. During epidemics 
abortive and ambulatory cases occur ; in these, icterus 
and other characteristic symptoms are often absent. 
Such cases may be hard to diagnose from febricula 
or mild malarial attacks. In them the mortality 
is nil. Some epidemics are particularly mild ; in 
others the majority die. In the same epidemic the 
cases may vary in severity from time to time. In 
children the mortality is insignificant. 

Pathological anatomy. Depending probably 
on haemoglobin diffused in the liquor sanguinis and 
tissues, and not on biliary pigment, the yellow colour 
of the skin is most marked in the dependent parts 
of the cadaver, especially in those parts which are 
subjected to pressure. Petechise are common in the 
skin and serous membranes ; more considerable ex- 
travasations of blood may be found in the muscles. 
The brain and meninges are hypersemic, and may be 
studded with minute hsemorrhagic effusions ; like the 
other tissues of the body, they are stained a lighter or 
deeper yellow. The blood in the vessels of the general 
circulation is not firmly coagulated. The blood cor- 
puscles appear to be normal, although there can be 
little doubt that there is in this disease a liberation 
of haemoglobin, arising, possibly, from destruction of 
a proportion of the corpuscles. An important fact, 
as explaining the liability to passive haemorrhages, 



xm] PATHOLOGICAL ANATOMY 265 

is the existence of a generalized fatty degeneration 
of the capillaries and smaller blood-vessels. The 
stomach, as stated, always contains more or less black 
material, sometimes fluid blood, such as may have 
been vomited during life. The folds of the gastric 
mucosa are swollen ; here and there are arborescent 
patches of congestion, and ecchymoses. Observers are 
not agreed as to the nature of this congestion 
whether it is passive or inflammatory. Sternberg 
says that in the increase of leucocytes in the sub- 
mucosa there is evidence of a slight inflammatory 
action. The small intestine may contain a dark, 
acid material similar to that in the stomach, and 
doubtless coming from the same source. Like that of 
the stomach, the mucous membrane of the intestine 
shows patchy arborescent injection. 

As compared with other fevers, in yellow fever 
the liver is characteristically affected. As a rule, if 
death has occurred at the later stages, this organ is 
somewhat exsanguine, friable, and presents a yellow- 
ish colour from profound fatty changes in the cells. 
Occasionally, though rarely, it may be hypersemic 
and dark. Throughout the gland the cells particu 
larly those about the periphery of the lobules on 
microscopical examination are found to contain 
globules and grains of fat. The nuclei in some 
instances, as well as the protoplasm of the cells, 
show fatty changes ; the latter may be completely dis- 
integrated. In the great majority of cases this fatty 
degeneration is well marked. It is not confined to 
the liver; every organ of the body is more or less 
affected in the same way. 

The spleen is not characteristically affected, but 
the kidneys show signs of parenchymatous ne- 
phritis. Hsemorrhagic foci under the capsule and 
in the cortex are common. The renal epithelium 
shows cloudy swelling passing on to fatty degenera- 
tion and desquamation. The tubules, here and there, 
are filled with infarcts, either of an albuminoid 
material or of debris of desquamated epithelium, 
corresponding with the numerous casts which can be 
discovered in the albuminous urine. 



266 YELLOW FEVER [CHAP. 

Diagnosis. The diagnosis of yellow fever is 
treated of in one of the chapters on malaria and in 
that on black water fever (see pp. 114, 288). Practi- 
cally, the only two diseases with which severe yellow 
fever is likely to be confounded are bilious re- 
mittent and hsemoglobinuric fever. The difficulties 
of diagnosis are often very great ; particularly so 
in the earlier cases of an epidemic. When several 
.deaths, preceded by fever and black vomit, have oc- 
curred within a limited area and in quick succession, 
a suspicion of yellow fever becomes a certainty. 
There is no clinical feature, so far as is known, which 
would distinguish a mild attack of yellow fever 
from an ordinary febricula, nor any pathognomonie 
clinical sign that would absolutely distinguish a 
malarial remittent from yellow fever. Probabilities 
must be weighed in diagnosis when it is based on 
clinical grounds alone. The only reliable guides are 
the discovery of the malaria parasite and the 
characteristic pigment and leucocytic variation in 
malarial fever, and the determination of their absence 
in yellow fever ; and, when cases come to the post- 
mortem table, the presence of pigment in the viscera 
in the former, and of extensive fatty degeneration of 
the liver cells in the latter. 

Treatment. Formerly a much more active 
treatment than that in vogue at the present day was 
the fashion for yellow fever. It is now recognized 
that, as with most specific fevers, the treatment is 
more a matter of nursing than of drugs. 

Experience has shown that a smart purgative at 
the very onset of the disease is beneficial. With 
many castor oil is the favourite drug, but to be of 
service it has to be given in very large doses 2 
to 4 oz. Others use calomel ; or calomel combined 
with quinine 20 gr. of each. Others, again, prefer 
a saline. The purgative, whichever be selected, must 
not be repeated, nor, for that matter, given at all if 
the patient is not seen until after the second day of 
the disease. 

Hot mustard pediluvia, frequently repeated dur- 
ing the first twenty -four hours, the patient and 



xni] TREATMENT 267 

bath being enveloped in a blanket, are much in 
favour. They are said to relieve the cerebral con- 
gestion and the intense headache. Very hot baths, 
with subsequent blanketing and sinapisms to the 
epigastrium, are also said to have a similarly favour- 
able influence on the congestion of the stomach which 
is, undoubtedly, another constant feature of the 
disease. For high fever, antipyretic drugs, cold baths, 
iced injections, cold sponging, and the like may be 
carefully employed. In view of the asthenic nature 
of the disease, the less depressing measures should be 
preferred. 

Vomiting may be treated with sinapisms and 
ice pills, or with small doses of cocaine. Morphia is 
dangerous, and must be avoided. For black vomit, 
frequently repeated doses of perchloride of iron, 
ergotine injections, acetate of lead, and other styptics 
have been recommended. For restlessness, phenacetin 
or antipyrin is used. When the skin is dry, the 
urine scanty, and the loins ache excessively, Sternberg 
recommends pilocarpine. 

After the fourth or fifth day the flagging circula- 
tion demands stimulants of some sort. Iced cham- 
pagne, hock, or teaspoonful doses of brandy given 
every half-hour may tide the patient over the period 
of collapse. Great care, however, should be exercised 
in the use of these things ; if they seem to increase 
the vomiting and the irritability of the stomach, they 
must be stopped at once. 

The feeding is an important matter. So long as 
there is fever the patient has no appetite ; during 
this time that is, for the first two or three days 
he is better without food. When the fever subsides 
appetite may return, and a craving for nourish- 
ment become more or less urgent ; the greatest care, 
however, must be exercised about gratifying this 
untimely appetite. Only the blandest foods, and these 
only in very small quantities, should be allowed 
such as spoonfuls of iced milk or chicken tea. 
Gradually the quantities may be increased ; but, even 
when convalescence is established, solid food must 
be partaken of very sparingly, and it must be of the 



268 YELLOW FEVER [CHAP. 

simplest and most digestible description. Indiscretion 
in eating is a fruitful cause of relapse in yellow fever ; 
and it must be borne in mind that in this disease 
relapse is exceedingly dangerous. Nutrition may be 
aided by nutrient enemata. 

The Sternberg treatment. Sternberg has intro- 
duced a system of treatment by alkalis which pro- 
mises well. It is directed principally to counter- 
acting the hyperacidity of the gastric and intestinal 
contents always a marked feature in yellow fever. 
His prescription is 150 gr. of sodium bicarbonate and 
-^ gr. of mercury perchloride in a quart of water ; of 
this 1^ oz. is given every hour. This, he claims, not 
only neutralizes the acidity of the intestinal contents 
but increases the flow of urine, the perchloride of 
mercury tending to check fermentation changes in 
the alimentary canal. Of 301 whites treated in this 
way only 7 '3 per cent, died, and of 72 blacks all 
recovered. Other encouraging figures have been ad- 
duced as to the efficacy of this line of treatment, 
which is certainly deserving of further and more 
extended trial. 

Prophylaxis. It is the duty of sanitary authori- 
ties in tropical countries, so far as possible, to free of 
mosquitoes the areas over which they have charge. If 
this were effectually done everywhere there would be 
no malaria, no filariasis, and no yellow fever. Al- 
though complete extermination of mosquitoes is not 
to be expected, relative extermination of mosquitoes 
is worth attempting, and certainly much can be 
attained in this direction by the vigorous use of 
the now well-known measures. In Havana, by such 
means, in a very few months the number of mos- 
quitoes was reduced 90 per cent., with, doubtless, a 
corresponding gain to the community in the diminu- 
tion of mosquito-conveyed disease. The same has 
happened in Panama, Rio, and elsewhere. 

During epidemic visitations or during exacerba- 
tions of endemic yellow fever, non-immunes should, 
if possible, immediately quit the implicated locality. 
Above all, the slums and low-lying districts of the 
town should be shunned. These places should not 



xni] PROPHYLAXIS 269 

even be visited; or, if visits have to be made to 
them, they should be as brief as possible, and not 
made after sundown. The susceptible should not 
sleep in the lower storeys of houses, and should pay 
great attention to general health, carefully avoiding 
all causes of physiological depression or disturbance. 
Sailors must not be allowed on shore. 

In every country subject to visitations of this 
disease the sanitary condition of the towns should be 
most carefully attended to, especially as they refer 
to the stegomyia mosquito. All water- tanks and 
cisterns must be effectually screened by fine-meshed 
metallic gauze ; all puddles and stagnant water 
abolished ; all cases of any kind of fever, no matter 
how mild they may be or what their nature, must be 
reported at once to the central sanitary authorities, 
who should have full powers promptly to screen or 
otherwise deal with them and the houses in which 
they are. 

Any delay in recognizing the earliest cases of 
a threatened epidemic, as shown by experience in 
New Orleans, is most dangerous, leading, as it may, 
to the rapid multiplication of infected centres. 

Ships should not be allowed to clear from infected 
ports, nor to enter non-infected ports during the 
warm season, without adequate inspection. If, on 
entering port, yellow fever is found on board, the 
cases should be isolated in a quarantine hospital 
where there are no stegomyia mosquitoes, the ship 
thoroughly cleared of mosquitoes, and the passen- 
gers and crew prevented for at least five, better 
thirteen, days from communicating with the shore, 
or until every risk of conveying infection has 
passed away. 

In the event of the disease appearing in a locality 
which is not habitually a yellow-fever centre, and of 
which the population is small, an economical plan 
of dealing with the threatened danger is for the 
authorities promptly to remove the entire population 
of the neighbourhood, with the exception of the 
insusceptible and those in attendance on the sick, 
and to place the deported population, before disper- 



270 YELLOW FEVER [CHAP. 

sion, in a thirteen days' quarantine camp. Mean- 
while the infected area must be rigidly isolated and 
its mosquitoes destroyed. In this way the spread of 
the disease will be prevented. 

In the event of yellow fever breaking out in 
the crew of a man-of-war, the cases, if possible, 
should be sent ashore, and the ship hurried north 
or south into cold weather, any mosquitoes which 
may have found their way on board being at once 
destroyed. 

In the case of the appearance of yellow fever in a 
large town, the method which was so successfully 
adopted by Surgeon-General Gorgas, U.S.A., must be 
adopted. Funds and authority must be obtained at 
once. An efficient and adequate sanitary staff must 
be promptly organized and instructed in their duties. 
Cases of every kind of fever as well as cases of 
yellow fever should be immediately reported, and the 
patients promptly protected from mosquito bite by 
wire screens. At the same time the systematic de- 
struction of mosquitoes in their breeding-places and 
in the patients' and neighbouring houses must be 
rigidly enforced. The infected houses should be care- 
fully sealed up by pasting paper over all the doors, 
windows, ventilators, chimneys, and cracks, and the 
fumes of pyrethrum or of burning sulphur 2 Ib. 
per 1,000 cubic feet of space or other insecticide 
employed to stupefy the insects, which should 
afterwards be swept up and burned. In this way, 
in 1901, yellow fever was stamped out in ninety 
days in Havana, a city where for a period of 140 
years it had held uninterrupted sway. In this way, 
in 1905, New Orleans was freed from the disease in 
a much shorter period than in any previous epidemic ; 
and in this way Gorgas has made the line of the 
Panama Canal as healthy as New York. Similar 
results from similar measures are being obtained in 
the larger Brazilian ports. 

Guiteras has shown, in a practical manner, that 
yellow-fever patients may be admitted to the wards 
of a general hospital or be nursed in private houses 
with impunity, provided they are protected by 



xm] FOMITES 271 

effective mosquito netting from mosquito bite during 
the first three or four days of their illness. 

Portability of the virus in fomites and 
merchandise. Until recently it was universally 
believed that the virus might remain for a consider- 
able time potentially infective in fomites, clothes, 
merchandise, etc., and in wooden structures (ships). 
Thus, Strain describes an epidemic in Sao Paulo 
in which he believed the initial cases acquired the 
infection from unpacking a box of clothes which 
had lain at Santos for some time and had been dam- 
aged there by damp and sea- water. The epidemic 
of 1893 in the same city he traced to certain cases 
of machinery which had lain for some months at 
Santos. On opening the cases the packing straw 
was found to be damp. Four of the people in the 
house where the cases were opened got yellow fever 
within a few days. 

Many similar instances have been adduced as 
conclusive evidence of the portability of the virus of 
yellow fever in fomites. But the very thorough and 
carefully conducted experiments carried out in Cuba 
by Drs. Reed, Carroll, and Agramonte go far to 
prove that fomites have nothing whatever to do 
with the conduction of the disease. A small, ill- 
ventilated, badly lighted wooden hut was erected 
near Havana during the prevalence of epidemic 
yellow fever. The fresh and stale fomites of yellow - 
fever patients, in the shape of soiled bedding, 
clothes, black vomit, etc., were strewn about or 
stowed away in great profusion in this close hut, 
and among them, lying on beds that had been occu- 
pied recently by yellow -fever patients, wearing these 
patients' soiled night -clothes and using their soiled 
blankets, seven non-immunes (that is, white men, 
recently arrived and never previously affected with 
yellow fever) slept during, in the aggregate, sixty- 
three nights from November 20th, 1900, to January 
31st, 1901 with absolute impunity. 

Immunity of the native as affected by 
anti-stegomyia sanitation. The immunity of 
the native of the endemic areas of yellow fever is 



272 YELLOW FEVER [CHAP. 

usually attributed to a mild attack in childhood. If 
yellow fever has been exterminated from Havana and 
other endemic centres by anti-stegomyia and other 
measures, the children in these places can no longer be 
attacked by the disease. It follows that, in the course 
of one generation, the entire population will become 
non-immune. Doubtless, sooner or later the germ of 
yellow fever will be introduced again, and then, having 
a population entirely non-immune to spread in, unless 
promptly checked, a far more extensive epidemic than 
ever devastated these places in less scientific days will 
ensue. This can be confidently predicted if it be true 
that the present immunity of the native depends on 
an attack of ordinary yellow fever in childhood. I 
am inclined to think that this explanation does not 
cover the entire ground; for, if the disease be so mild 
in childhood as not to be recognizable, how was it 
that Gorgas stamped out yellow fever in Havana, 
and how is it that the disease is not in evidence 
there now? I would suggest that there are two 
strains of yellow -fever virus one of great viru- 
lence, one of little virulence. Specifically the same, 
they are mutually protective, much in the same way 
as with vaccinia and smallpox. The immunity of the 
native and the old resident I would attribute to epi- 
demics or endemics of the mild strain of yellow fever, 
which, could it be recognized clinically, might be used 
as a vaccine against the more virulent disease.* 

Introduction of yellow fever into Asia. 
There is another important matter in connection with 
this disease which, in the near future, ought to be 
made a subject for international consideration. I 
refer to the possibility of the spread of yellow fever 
to Asia, the Eastern Archipelago, Polynesia, and 

* Thomas has communicated yellow fever to the chimpanzee ; 
possibly to the guineapig. Doubtless there are other lower 
animals susceptible to the infection. A passage through one of 
these may deprive the germ of its virulent pathogenic properties. 
The omnipresent stegomyia would be an active vacciuator of the 
non - virulent strain, passing it from native to native, and so 
rendering them immune against the virulent form of the disease. 
At all events, until proof is adduced that something of this sort 
does not occur, the possibility that it does occur should not be 
ignored. 



xra] COMMUNICATION 273 

East Africa. It has spread in the past to Europe ; 
this is a comparatively unimportant matter, as the 
climatic and hygienic conditions in that continent 
are not favourable to the stegomyia mosquito, and 
therefore to the extension of the disease. It is 
otherwise in this respect, it is to be feared, with 
Asia. Fortunately, yellow fever, so far as known, 
has never appeared in the crowded, filthy cities of 
the East ; but, should it ever be introduced there, the 
favourable climatic conditions, the surpassing filth 
everywhere, the presence of stegomyia mosquitoes, 
and the too frequent absence of efficient sanitary 
machinery will enable it to spread like wildfire in 
an entirely non-immune population. The probable 
reason of its non-introduction into Asia is that the 
trade route from the West Indies and Central 
America to China and India has hitherto not been 
a direct one, but has passed by a long circuit either 
to the north or to the south. When the American 
interoceanic canal is in full use there will be direct 
and rapid communication between the present 
yellow - fever centres and Asia. With this more 
direct and more rapid communication there will 
arise a corresponding risk of spreading yellow fever 
into a huge section of tropical humanity which has 
hitherto enjoyed exemption from one of the dead- 
liest diseases afflicting mankind. An infected mos- 
quito (and Stegomyia calopus, according to Giles, is a 
good traveller), either shipped by accident or brought 
on board by some thoughtless or malicious person, 
could easily be conveyed alive to the shores of Asia, 
and would suffice to set, so to speak, the whole of 
the tropical section of the Eastern hemisphere in a 
blaze. The history of the spread of disease by the 
rapid methods of modern travel is full of examples 
that should serve as a warning to our rulers and 
responsible sanitary authorities. Let us hope that 
this important matter will receive the attention it 
demands, and that due care will be exercised that 
America does not reciprocate the introduction of 
cholera from Asia by a return gift of yellow 
fever. 



274 YELLOW FEVEK 

GENUS STEGOMYIA 

The members of this group of mosquitoes, belonging to the 
sub-family Cttlicince, present very distinctive characters. Their 
ova, instead of being cemented together to form rafts as in 
other Culieince, are deposited separately, each being surrounded 
by small air-chambers. Their larvae are somewhat elongate, 
with rudimentary antennae, and a short stout siphon; they 
maintain art almost vertical attitude. In the nymphae the 
trumpets are expanded and broadly triangular in shape. The 
imago exhibits a distinctive scale structure and, at all events 
in early life, observes diurnal habits. 

The Stegomyia are easily recognized by the broad, flat, imbri- 
cated scales which completely cover the head and abdomen and 
which are invariably present on the middle lobe and frequently 
also on the lateral lobes of the scutellum. These scales give to 
the insect a satin-like appearance which is quite characteristic. 
They are mostly small, black insects, with white, silvery, or 
yellow lines, bands, or spots on the thorax and legs. In India 
they are known as "tiger mosquitoes" on account of their 
striped appearance. They seem to have a decided preference 
for the littoral, and certain species (S. calopus, S. scutellaris} 
are frequently found on ships and are doubtless distributed by 
this means. At present the genus Stegomyia includes nineteen 
species, all of which are easily identifiable on account of their 
striking thoracic and other ornamentation. Of these the 
type species, S. calopus, is the most important on account of 
its wide distribution in all tropical and sub-tropical countries, 
and of its share in the propagation of yellow fever. 

S. calopus (Plate VII.) can be recognized by the peculiar 
lyre-shaped ornamentation of its thorax, composed of two 
dull yellow parallel lines in the middle and a curved silvery 
line on each side.* The proboscis is not banded ; the abdomen 
is banded basally ; the last hind tarsal joints are all white, and 
some of the other tarsal joints are marked by light bands basally. 
This widely distributed species is essentially a domestic form 
and bites with avidity. It breeds in small artificial collections 
of water, such as barrels, puddles, cisterns, and even in such 
small receptacles as sardine tins. The nature of the water 
appears to be a matter of indifference. The eggs resist a con- 
siderable degree of desiccation, and, as they may sink to the 
bottom of the water in which they lie, are readily pumped into 
the water-tanks of ships. 

Although widely distributed, S. calopus does not occur 
abundantly in certain parts, such as the Malay States, China, 
and Africa, where its place is taken by closely allied species, 
such as S. scutellaris in the Malay States, China, etc., and S. 
africana, S. argenta punctata, and others in Africa. It is quite 
possible that, besides S. calopus, other species belonging to the 
genus may be able to transmit the yellow-fever germ. 

* This ornamentation is constant, but the median thoracic 
stripes are absent in a variety called S.fasciata mosquito. 




Stegomyia calopus (fasciata), 9. 

PLATE VII. 



CHAPTER XIV 
BLACKWATER FEVER 

Synonyms. Hsemoglobinuric fever, melanuric fever, 
haematuric fever. 

Definition. An acute disease characterized by 
pyrexia generally ushered in by severe rigor, bilious 
vomiting, icterus, hsemoglobinuria and, frequently, 
diminution or suppression of urine. 

For a long time this disease, like kala-azar and 
several other tropical fevers, has been regarded as a 
form of malaria, and in earlier editions of this manual, 
in deference to general opinion, I described it, with 
some reservation, under that head. I have long 
entertained the idea that too much has been taken 
for granted in relegating black water to malaria, and 
thereby ignoring its possible individuality as a separate 
disease ; an individuality strongly suggested not only 
by the symptomatology, but also by epidemiology and 
analogy. I have therefore now placed it by itself 
pending definite settlement of one of the most im- 
portant problems still unsolved in tropical pathology. 
Such an arrangement, apart from other and more 
purely theoretical considerations, has its practical 
advantages. 

Geographical distribution. The geographi- 
cal distribution of blackwater fever is very wide. 
Although it does not coincide with that of any of 
the known types of malaria, and although the ende- 
micity of blackwater fever is not coextensive with 
that of malaria, it is only in localities in which 
malaria is very prevalent that blackwater fever can 
be acquired. Endemic concurrence, however, must 
not be looked on as conclusive of identity ; the germ 
causes of very different diseases may have certain 
topographical requirements in common. 

The prevalence of blackwater fever in various 
275 



276 BLACKWATER FEVER [CHAP. 

malarious countries is most unequal. It is common 
here and there throughout tropical Africa. It is 
found all along the West Coast from the Senegal to 
the Coanza, but principally on the Congo and on the 
deltas of the Niger and Gambia rivers. On the 
East Coast it is also widely spread, especially along 
the Zambesi, the lower Shire, and the shores of the 
Nyasa. It is far from uncommon in the Upper 
Niger, in British and German East Africa, in Uganda, 
in North and South Rhodesia, in Abyssinia, and in 
the valley of the Upper Nile. It is also common 
in some parts of Madagascar. But it is not found in 
the malarious regions of Lower Egypt, and it is rare 
in Algeria. 

In America it extends over the Southern States 
of the Union, chiefly Florida, Georgia, Alabama, 
Mississippi, Arkansas, and Texas, but recently it has 
also been prevalent in North Carolina and Virginia. 
It is found, too, in Central America, on the plains of 
Venezuela and in the West Indies. 

In Europe it is restricted to Greece, Sicily, and 
Sardinia. A few cases have been reported from 
Central Italy. It is extremely rare in the Roman 
Campagna, the classic land of malaria. 

In Asia it is reported from Palestine (Zicron), 
Tonquin, the Malay Peninsula, Formosa, and lately it 
has been described as occurring in Assam, Burma, 
Darjeeling, the Terai, Meerut, and Amritsar. It 
occurs in many of the malarious islands Java, Solo- 
mon Islands, etc. of the Eastern Archipelago, and 
also in New Guinea. 

Before 1885, strange to say, no Indian writer 
had mentioned haemoglobinuria as a feature in the 
pyretology of Hindustan or of the East. Apart from 
the possibility of its having been overlooked, there 
may be another explanation for this singular silence : 
the disease may have been confounded with bilious 
remittent. It is difficult to believe, however, that 
the large number of acute observers who had studied 
Indian diseases so carefully and for so many years 
could have systematically ignored this striking disease. 
Possibly, therefore, it is of recent introduction into 



xiv] TOPOGRAPHICAL DISTRIBUTION 277 

India. Such an idea is countenanced by the fact 
that certain medical men practising in Africa, good 
observers, declare that black water fever is of com- 
paratively recent introduction there ; and, moreover, 
that it is yearly becoming more common in that 
continent. In certain States of the American Union 
it seems to have been only recently introduced; 
Meek says it first appeared in Texas in 1886. 

Topographical distribution. Although 
black water fever has a wide general distribution, it is 
limited in its endemicity to low, swampy grounds; and 
although, as reported by several authors, it sometimes 
occurs at high altitudes, this does not prove that in- 
fection took place there. We know that the disease 
may remain latent for a considerable time, that those 
who have been infected may have relapses at long 
intervals, and that the clinical manifestations may 
appear for the first time far from the place in which 
the infection was contracted. It is a common belief 
among the older residents in British Central Africa 
that a change of district, particularly from one level 
to another, causes blackwater fever, an opinion based 
on the experience that many cases occur soon after 
such a change. Amongst Europeans in British Cen- 
tral Africa such changes of district are frequent, 
and, as it is only a day's journey from the lowlands 
to the highlands, it is reasonable to infer that the 
majority of the cases which occur on the highlands 
depend on infection contracted previously in the 
swampy regions at the foot of mountains, and in the 
season during which the conditions favouring infection 
are most prevalent. 

Seasonal prevalence. In the Southern States 
of the American Union blackwater fever is reported to 
be especially frequent in late summer and in autumn. 
On the West Coast of Africa it seems to prevail 
at the close of the rainy season (August and Sep- 
tember). For British Central Africa we have no 
definite information on this point. Like other in- 
fectious diseases, the acquisition of the germ cause of 
blackwater fever is directly or indirectly dependent 
on special meteorological conditions. The first clinical 



278 BLACKWATER FEVER [CHAP. 

manifestations of the infection and relapses may occur 
at any season and in any place. 

Epidemiology. Blackwater fever at times 
assumes an epidemic form. It may not be seen for 
years in a district, and then numbers of cases may 
occur within a short time. Very often, as is the 
case in yellow fever, the magnitude of an " epidemic" 
may depend on the number of susceptible persons, 
possibly new arrivals, within the endemic region. 
It broke out amongst the labourers employed in 
making the canal through the Isthmus of Corinth ; it 
attacked the Chinese labourers on the Congo rail- 
way ; and in 1885, according to Dr. Wenyon, of 
Fatshan, China, " it ravaged like a plague the 
Chinese army on the Tonquin border of Kwangsi." 
In collective dwellings, such as barracks, hospitals, 
schools, it may attack several persons at the same 
time. In 1885 it broke out in a prison in Castiades, 
Sardinia, attacking 24 out of 800 convicts. Some- 
times several cases may occur at intervals in the same 
house; such houses are known in British Central 
Africa as "blackwater fever houses."* 

Predisposing: causes. Individuals of all ages 
and both sexes are liable to blackwater fever, but they 
are not equally subject to it. It more commonly 
affects men about the middle period of life, obviously 
on account of their greater exposure either to its 
causative agent or to circumstances provocative of an 
attack. 

At one time race was considered an important 
factor. In Africa, Europeans, Indians, and Chinese 
are attacked in great numbers, whilst the natives 
are said to enjoy an immunity. The immunity of 
the natives is probably not a racial immunity; 
more likely it is the immunity conferred by infection 
during childhood. In fact, negroes living in places 

* Some years ago I saw a lady suffering from blackwater fever. 
She with her husband and child had recently returned to England 
from the Upper Zambesi district. She died. I was struck with 
the anaemic appearance of her husband and examined his blood. 
He had blackwater infection. A few days after his wife's death 
he got subtertian fever. He was very ill but recovered. The 
child escaped. 



xiv] PKEDISPOSING CAUSES 279 

which are free from blackwater fever contract the 
disease just like Europeans when they come within 
its reach. Plehn mentions a serious outbreak of 
blackwater fever among the blacks in the Cameroons, 
the disease especially attacking those who had come to 
the coast from the interior. Reynolds says that the dis- 
ease occurs sporadically amongst the natives of Ashanti. 

Among the circumstances which predispose to the 
active clinical manifestation of the blackwater-fever 
infection, debility from previous illness, bad food, or 
hardship have undoubtedly a powerful influence. It 
is usually in those who have suffered from sub- 
tertian infection, more rarely from tertian and quartan 
infections, or from dysentery, or who are "run down " 
from any cause, that blackwater fever appears, although 
cases of the disease in strong, healthy individuals of 
recent arrival have frequently occurred. 

Length of residence. It has been repeated 
again and again that Europeans are rarely attacked 
within the first year of residence in a blackwater- 
fever country, and great stress has been laid on this 
statement by those who believe that the hsemoglobin- 
uria is not the special feature of a specific disease, but 
only a symptom of ordinary malaria in people who 
have previously suffered from several attacks of the 
prevailing intermittent fever. We know, however, 
that although in most cases attacks of the more 
widely spread subtertian may precede blackwater- 
fever infection, yet there are many cases on record 
in which blackwater fever occurred before any kind 
of "malaria" had manifested itself. Plehn, Scott, 
Ritchie, Cardamatis, Lynch, Hearsey, Daniels and 
others have reported cases of blackwater fever in 
robust individuals who were attacked within two 
or three months of their arrival in a blackwater-fever 
country. I have frequently been told by officers in 
the African colonial service that the attack of black- 
water fever for which they were invalided suddenly 
developed while they appeared to be in perfect health 
and without any malarial antecedents. Daniels states 
that few cases occur during the first six months' resi- 
dence, that they rapidly increase during the next six 



280 BLACKWATER FEVER [CHAP. 

months, are most numerous during the second and 
third year, and become rare after five years' residence. 
This is exactly what might be expected to happen 
with any localized infectious disease. The relatively 
small number of cases within the first six months may 
be explained by non-exposure to the causative agents of 
the disease ; indeed, many arrive in the endemic dis- 
trict at the end of the epidemic season. The progressive 
prevalence of cases during the first three years finds 
an obvious explanation in the accumulating chances 
of infection ; the decrease in later years may be partly 
accounted for by the progressive diminution in the 
number of the older residents and by the weeding out 
of the most susceptible. Daniels states that the early 
cases of blackwater fever those under one year's 
residence are mainly (14 out of 21) in persons 
resident at or below the 1,500 feet level; and the 
majority (10 out of 14) of cases in persons having 
four years' residence are in persons residing princi- 
pally in the highlands. 

Etiology. There are three theories as to the eti- 
ology of blackwater fever 1, the "malaria" theory ; 
2, the quinine theory ; 3, the specific theory. 

1. The malaria theory. The prevalence of black- 
water fever in malarious regions, the great frequency 
of its occurrence in persons who had previously 
suffered from one or other of the malarial fevers, 
the finding of malaria parasites and hsemozoin in 
the blood and organs, and the large mononuclear 
leucocytosis of haemoglobin uric cases led to the 
belief that blackwater fever was an unusually 
severe form of "malaria." Against this theory is 
the fact that although blackwater fever is certainly 
co-endemic with one or other form of malaria in 
several regions, it is not so in all regions. It has its 
own peculiar distribution, and is absent or very rare 
in many places in which the various intermittent 
fevers are especially rife. It is exceedingly common 
amongst the few Europeans who live in tropical 
Africa ; it is practically unknown amongst the many 
thousands of Englishmen who live in the fever haunts 
of India and elsewhere. 



xiv] ETIOLOGY 281 

It is quite true that blackwater fever generally 
occurs in persons who have previously suffered or are 
suffering from malaria; but this does not prove that it 
is a special manifestation of malaria. It may be con- 
currence merely. We do not believe tuberculosis to 
be a peculiar manifestation of enteric fever because 
it often follows in the wake of that disease. Mpre- 
over, as already pointed out, blackwater fever fre- 
quently attacks people who previously had never had 
a single paroxysm of intermittent fever. The fact 
that malaria parasites are often found in the early 
stages of blackwater fever is not surprising when we 
consider that in many places malaria is exceedingly 
common and is co-endemic with blackwater fever. 
Although the tertian and quartan parasites have been 
found in the blood of blackwater-fever cases, the 
parasite which most frequently occurs is the sub- 
tertian, because it is that species of malaria parasite 
which is most common in the endemic regions of black- 
water fever. Yet of all the intermittent fevers, sub- 
tertian is the one that differs most, clinically, from 
blackwater fever. It is true that subtertian varies 
considerably in different cases ; but the type of the 
disease does not alter, and the number and distribution 
of the parasites in the organs are always in perfect 
accordance with the intensity and nature of the various 
symptoms. In no case of subtertian, not even in the 
most pernicious, do we ever find the symptoms 
peculiar to blackwater fever. On the other hand, all 
cases of blackwater fever, however grave, however 
mild, always exhibit the same characteristic symptoms, 
with no difference other than as regards intensity and 
duration. Admitting the malaria theory of black- 
water fever, we should have to consider a mild relapse 
of blackwater fever to be an unusually severe attack 
of subtertian an untenable paradox. When malaria 
parasites are found in cases of blackwater fever they 
may be very scanty and in no way proportional to the 
symptoms of the disease. But in many cases no 
parasites are found ; or, what is still more striking, if 
there were a few parasites before the attack, they 
invariably completely disappear with the onset of 



282 BLACKWATER FEVER [CHAP. 

blackwater fever, and may not return after recovery 
from the latter disease. In analogy with what is 
sometimes observed in pernicious cases of subtertian 
fever, some authors have suggested that the parasites, 
though scarce or even absent in the peripheral blood, 
may be numerous in some internal organ, particu- 
larly the brain. Against this a priori argument are 
the absence of cerebral symptoms during the attack, 
and the occasional negative evidence of post-mortem 
findings. 

Much has been made of the large mononuclear 
leucocytosis present in this disease as a proof of its 
malarial nature. But we now know that a similar 
type of leucoeytosis occurs in several other forms of 
protozoal disease. 

If blackwater fever be caused by any one of the 
known malaria parasites, this parasite must hare 
acquired its peculiarly powerful hsemolytic properties 
in a previous passage through an as yet unrecognized 
mammalian or insect host ; or the subject of black- 
water fever must have been exposed to some specific 
influence present in blackwater fever countries, but 
absent in other malarial districts. 

2. The quinine theory. The quinine theory of 
blackwater fever arose in Greece. It was first sug- 
gested by Veretas in 1858, and soon became popular 
amongst Greek physicians. In 1874 it was upheld by 
Tomaselli in Italy, and more recently it received 
the support of Koch. The idea that quinine might 
produce blackwater fever originated from a mis- 
interpretation of the fact that the administration of 
quinine, even in small doses, may provoke the mani- 
festation of blackwater fever in a patient in whom the 
infection is latent. As quinine, even in toxic doses, 
never produces blackwater fever in healthy people or 
in malaria patients elsewhere, its peculiar action in 
Africa had to be explained by a peculiar hypotheti- 
cal idiosyncrasy an idiosyncrasy which, curiously 
enough, is found only in certain malarious countries 
and not in others. Thus, the connection between 
quinine and blackwater fever is not one of cause and 
effect, but merely one of coincidence. Blackwater 



xiv] ETIOLOGY 283 

fever was known long before the introduction of 
cinchona bark into Europe, indeed it was known 
in the days of Hippocrates. Besides, even recently, 
numerous cases of black water fever have been re- 
ported amongst Europeans who had never taken 
quinine. Cardamatis mentions thirty-two such cases. 
Then, again, a number of physicians have adminis- 
tered quinine in large doses for the treatment of 
blackwater fever and have greatly vaunted its bene- 
ficial action. Quinine, undoubtedly, provokes in 
some the clinical manifestation of blackwater-fever 
infection. So, and probably much more powerfully, 
do chill and fatigue. But no one will contend 
that the latter cause the disease. Why then attri- 
bute it to quinine, which, logically, has no stronger 
claim 1 

3. The specific theory. In 1893, in a paper read 
before the Epidemiological Society, I stated that, on 
account of its peculiar symptoms and geographical 
distribution, I believed blackwater to be a disease 
sui generis. In 1898 Sarnbon suggested, because of 
the striking analogies that its distribution, course, 
symptoms and morbid appearances have with the 
hsemoglobinuric fevers of cattle, horses, dogs and 
sheep, that blackwater fever might be a form of 
babesiasis. This view, which has been adopted 
by Blanchard and others, deserves consideration. 
It is quite reasonable to expect to find in man 
parasites belonging to this genus of the haemoprotozoa, 
so abundantly represented amongst the animals 
most intimately associated with him. Certainly, 
of all the diseases of man of which the etiology is 
still obscure, none could be more appropriately 
ascribed to this group of parasites. The analogies 
between the hcemoglobinuric fever of man and the 
hsemoglobinuric fevers of cattle are most striking. 
To explain the fact that as yet no babesia has been 
found in cases of blackwater fever, I might suggest 
that either the amoeboid forms of the parasite have 
been mistaken for the early forms of the subtertian 
parasite, or that the parasite has escaped observa- 
tion on account of diminutive size or anatomical 



284 BLACKWATEK FEVER [CHAP. 

habitat, or because it is not usually found in the 
peripheral blood.* 

Edington claims to have shown that when cattle, 
natives of the South African endemic regions of 
Texas fever, are inoculated with rinderpest, they 
develop hsemoglobinuria and the other symptoms of 
Texas fever, from which disease they might be sup- 
posed to be pathologically immune. The blood of 
immune cattle in Texas fever regions, we know, con- 
tains, in small numbers, the babesia. Edington's 
experiments show that the supervention of a second 
infection, rinderpest, determines the multiplication of 
the latent babesia, and the explosion of the character- 
istic symptoms. May this not be in strict analogy 
with what happens in blackwater fever? The in- 
fection of blackwater fever may remain latent for 
considerable periods, until provoked into activity by 
some special agency, as cold, shock, quinine, or some 
additional infection, especially malaria. 

Cook has placed on record five cases of black- 
water fever in which an attack of spirillum fever 
appeared to be the provocative agent. 

Manifestly, the etiology of blackwater fever is 
not yet settled, and it is wise to preserve an open 
mind on this important subject. 

Incubation period. We know nothing 
definite as to the incubation period of blackwater 
fever. Scott, in British Central Africa, noticed that 
the attack usually occurred about eight days after 
exposure in certain low-lying districts. That the 
disease may remain in abeyance for a considerable 
time is proved by the facts that recurrences after 
long intervals months are very common, in fact the 
rule; and that in some cases the first attack may 
manifest itself in Europe several months after the 
patient has left the endemic regions. I have recently 

* Leishman has recently described certain minute and some- 
what ill- defined bodies in mononuclear corpuscles in the blood 
of a number of cases of blackwater fever. He does not claim 
that these bodies are parasites, but he does not deny that they 
may be of that nature. He also describes peculiar cells ; he calls 
them ' ' chrome cells " in the blood of such cases. Balf our has 
found similar cells in blackwater. Low, "VVenyon, and Schilling 
Torgau have found similar bodies in other diseases. 



xiv] SYMPTOMS 285 

met with a case in England in which a severe attack, 
followed by a still more severe and prolonged relapse, 
was the first manifestation of a blackwater-fever 
infection which must have been acquired at least nine 
and a half months previously the time that had 
elapsed since the patient left Africa. 

Symptoms. The onset of blackwater fever is 
usually sudden. A slight or, more generally, a very 
severe rigor is followed by intermitting, or remitting, 
or irregular fever with marked bilious symptoms. 
Earlier or later in the attack, usually during rigor, 
the patient becomes conscious of aching, perhaps 
severe, pain in the loins, in the region of the liver and 
spleen, and over the bladder; in exceptional instances 
these local pains are absent. In consequence of a 
somewhat urgent desire he passes water, when he 
is astonished to see that his urine has become very 
dark in colour, perhaps malaga - coloured or, pos- 
sibly, almost black. The fever continues, though not 
necessarily very high. Very likely he suffers from 
epigastric pain and distress, bilious vomiting to an 
unusual extent, and, it may be, bilious diarrho3a ; 
or he may be constipated. The pain in the loins 
and the liver-ache continue, and the urine becomes 
darker and darker. By and by the sufferer breaks 
into a profuse sweat and the fever gradually sub- 
sides. The urine, which hitherto may have been 
very abundant, or, perhaps, somewhat scanty, now 
flows freely ; and, after passing through various pal- 
ing shades, from dark brown to sherry red, becomes 
once more natural in appearance. Coincidently with 
the appearance of the dark colour in the urine, or 
even before this has been remarked, the skin and 
sclerse rapidly acquire a deep saffron-yellow tint. 
This icteric condition persists and even deepens 
during the progress of the fever, continuing for 
several days to be a striking feature in the symptoms. 
When the fever subsides the patient is conscious of 
a feeling of intense weakness from which he recovers 
but slowly. Fever, with or without rigor, may recur 
next day, or for several days ; or it may cease ; or 
it may be remittent, or almost continued in type. 



286 BLACKWATER FEVER [CHAP. 

The haemoglobinuria may recur with each rise of 
temperature ; or there may be only one or two out- 
bursts ; it may continue for an hour or two only ; 
or it may persist off and on for several days or even 
weeks. 

In the more severe forms of haemoglobinuric fever 
there is usually a very great amount of bilious vomit- 
ing, of intense epigastric distress, and of severe liver- 
and loin-ache. The urine may continue copious and 
very dark in colour ; or, continuing hsemoglobinous, 
it may gradually get more and more scanty, acquiring 
a gummy consistence, a few drops only being passed at 
a time. Finally, it may be completely suppressed. 

In severe cases death is the rule. It appears 
to be brought about in one of three or four ways. 
The fever may assume the typho-adynamic type ; or 
suddenly-developed cerebral, hyperpyrexial, or algide 
symptoms may supervene. Singultus is said to be a 
fatal symptom. In other cases the symptoms may 
be like those consequent on sudden and profuse 
haemorrhage jactitation, sweating, sighing, syncope. 
Or it may be that suppression of urine, persisting for 
several days, terminates, as cases of suppression usually 
do, in sudden syncope or convulsions and coma. Or, 
more rarely, nephritis may ensue and the patient die 
from uraemic trouble three or four weeks after all 
signs of haemoglobinuria and fever have disappeared. 

Recently I saw in London a case in which the 
fatal issue appeared to have been brought about by 
persistent hiccough always a bad sign hepatitis, 
and vomiting of blood, 

The urine. If the characteristic dark-brown, 
generally acid, urine of a hsemoglobinuric case be 
stood for some time in a urine glass, it will separate 
into two well-marked layers : an upper of a clear 
though very dark port- wine tint, and a lower 
perhaps amounting to fine-half or one- third of the 
entire bulk of a somewhat brownish-grey colour, 
and consisting of a sediment in which an enor- 
mous number of hyaline and haemoglobin tube-casts 
are to be found, together with a large quantity 
of brownish granular material. Epithelium is also 



xiv] MORTALITY 287 

met with. Blood corpuscles may be entirely absent, 
or very few in number. With the haemoglobin there 
is also an escape of the serum-globulin of the blood, 
for the urine, in many cases, turns almost solid on 
boiling ; the coagulum so formed carries down with 
it as it subsides the dissolved and suspended haemo- 
globin, leaving a pale-yellow supernatant urine. For 
some days after the urine has regained a normal 
appearance it will still contain albumin, though in 
gradually diminishing amount. Spectroscopic exami- 
nation gives the characteristic bands of haemoglobin, 
sometimes those of methaemoglobin. 

Mortality. This varies greatly in different epi- 
demics, in the same and in different places, and even 
under the same treatment. Some cases are so mild 
and transient, amounting, perhaps, to a single emission 
of hsemoglobinous urine, with little or no fever, that 
they are unattended with risk ; on the other hand, 
a practitioner may encounter a run of severe cases 
in which nearly all die. Some old residents in Africa 
have passed through ten or more attacks with im- 
punity. Taking one with the other, the case -mortality 
in blackwater fever may be put down at about 25 
per cent. 

Post-mortem appearances. The kidneys. 
If the kidneys of a fatal case are examined at an 
early stage of the disease, they are seen to be 
enlarged and congested, the tubules blocked with 
haemoglobin infarcts, the cells laden with yellow 
pigment grains, and the capillaries most probably with 
a certain amount of malarial pigment. If the case 
survive for three or four weeks and then die of 
uraemia, the appearances are those of large white 
kidney. 

The spleen is enlarged, congested, and usually 
contains malarial pigment. 

The liver is enlarged, soft, of a dark -yellow colour. 
Microscopically it reveals evidence of cloudy swelling 
with a large amount of haemosiderin in the liver 
cells. Haemozoin may or may not be present. 

Diagnosis. The diseases with which black- 
water fever might be confounded are 1, paroxys- 



288 BLACKWATER FEVER [CHAP. 

mal hsemoglobinuria; 2, bilious remittent malaria; 
3, yellow fever ; 4, icterus gravis. If it be borne in 
mind that rigor, hsemoglobinuria, pyrexia, are all 
in evidence at the outset in black water fever, and 
also that black water fever is acquired only in certain 
countries, an error in diagnosis is improbable. 

As regards paroxysmal hsemoglobinuria occurring 
in the tropics, a diagnosis might be impossible. 
Both diseases have the same symptoms. Paroxysmal 
hsemoglobinuria, as a rule, is of a milder type. In 
bilious remittent malaria an examination of the urine 
will suffice to exclude one of the characteristics of 
blackwater fever, namely, the presence of haemoglobin. 
Moreover, the malaria parasite will be present in the 
blood throughout the fever until quinine has been 
administered. In yellow fever the initial rigor is 
rarely severe, the appearance of icterus is a com- 
paratively late event, the spleen and liver are not 
usually enlarged, the urine is albuminous, and if 
blood be present the erythrocytes are abundant. 
The same remarks apply to icterus gravis. 

Treatment. Having regard to the frequency 
with which hsemoglobinuric fever concurs with malarial 
infection, and the well-established fact that quinine 
may precipitate or determine a hsemoglobinuric attack, 
the question of the administration of that drug in 
hsemoglobinuria becomes an important point. Some 
practitioners of experience recommend the exhibi- 
tion of the drug in heroic doses, giving it every two 
hours in divided doses to the extent of 120 gr. a 
day; this they keep up till convalescence is estab- 
lished. On the other hand, hsemoglobinuria may come 
on while the patient is cinchonized. The Plehns, 
Koch, and others, after trying quinine in these cases, 
and carefully comparing the results of treatment both 
with and without quinine, abandoned its use. So long 
as the hsemoglobinuria continued they treated the case 
symptomatically, cautiously resuming the specific if the 
case merged into and concluded as a simple inter- 
mittent. There can be no doubt that in large doses 
quinine exercises a certain amount of destructive 
action on the blood corpuscles, rendering their hsemo- 



xiv] TREATMENT 289 

globin unstable. When, therefore, its toxic influence 
is superadded to that of the specific cause of the 
hsemoglobinuric fever, it may be that it supplies 
the ILtle that is required to determine an extensive 
liberation of haemoglobin, which, had the quinine been 
withheld, might not have taken place. Bastianelli lays 
down the following sensible rules as to the use of quin- 
ine in haemoglobinuric fever : (a) If haemoglobinuria 
occurs during a malarial paroxysm and parasites aie 
found in the blood, quinine should be given. (6) If 
parasites are not found in the blood, quinine should 
not be given, (c) If quinine has been already given 
before the hsemoglobinuria has appeared, and no para- 
sites are found, its use should be suspended ; but if 
parasites persist it should be continued. 

Recommendations. Patients who are suffering from 
or are threatened with hsemoglobinuria, or who have 
had this disease before, on the slightest indication of 
fever should go to bed at once, keep their skins warm 
and scrupulously protected from draughts, and take 
plenty of warm fluid if parasites are present in the 
blood, moderate doses 5 gr. of quinine every three 
or four hours (intramuscularly by preference) and a 
moderate dose of calomel should be given. Patients 
threatening blackwater should not be moved. 

When the urine tends to be suppressed, diuretics 
must not be given with the idea of stimulating the 
kidneys. In these circumstances hot fomentations 
should be applied to the loins, plenty of bland diluents 
administered, and an exclusive milk diet ordered until 
all albumin has disappeared from the urine. Indeed, 
even in the mildest as well as the gravest cases, the 
free and frequent administration of fluid is a most 
important measure, whether the patient is thirsty or 
not, and should be insisted on from the beginning 
of the attack. When, owing to persistent vomiting, 
fluid cannot be retained by the stomach, enemata of 
warm physiological salt solution (much less irritating 
to the bowel, and thus far more likely to be retained 
than plain water) should be administered repeatedly, 
6-8 oz. every half-hour or hour. If these are not 
retained, the salt solution (a teaspoonful to the pint 



290 BLACKWATER FEVER [CHAP. 

of sterilized water), sterilized, may be slowly in- 
troduced into the subcutaneous connective tissue of 
the flank or elsewhere by means of a hollow needle 
attached by a rubber tube to some improvised reser- 
voir placed one or two feet above the level of the 
patient. The water is rapidly absorbed, and cannot 
fail to be useful in washing out the haemoglobin in- 
farcts which plug the renal tubules and bring about, 
or at all events contribute to, suppression of urine. 
Marked restlessness may require minute doses of 
morphia (^ gr.) ; but this drug, of great use at 
times, must be employed with caution. This is the 
only rational and safe systematic treatment of haemo- 
globinuric fever. Antipyretic drugs, as antipyrin 
and phenacetin, are dangerous. 

Sternberg's mixture of bichloride of mercury and 
sodium bicarbonate (p. 268) has come into favour 
lately, especially in Central Africa. 

Calomel in large doses 20 to 30 gr. is with 
some a favourite remedy for haemoglobinuric fever. 
Formerly it was used systematically in Africa in 
these cases. I have heard of its being given there 
by the teaspoonful. I know of cases which recovered 
perfectly without a grain of calomel or of quinine. 
Severe stomatitis may arise from the former ; it 
should therefore be employed with great caution, 
and in reasonable dose. 

Quennec has advocated the administration, of 
small doses of chloroform in hsemoglobinuric fever. 
His formula is chloroform 4 grin., powdered gum 
q.s., sweetened water 250 c.c. : of this a tablespoon- 
ful is given every ten minutes until a certain degree 
of chloroform intoxication is produced. Thereafter 
the effect is kept up by enemata of chloral. In 
twenty-two successive cases Quennec had no death. 

Tannic acid is another drug which enjoys a certain 
reputation in the treatment of malarial fevers that 
have resisted quinine, and also in hsemoglobinuric 
fever. It is given, well diluted, in 15-gr. doses 
every two hours for four or five times, the dosing 
being repeated on the third and sixth days to the 
extent of two doses each day. 



xiv] PROPHYLAXIS 291 

Salicylate of soda, boric acid, chloride oj calcium, 
potash, preparations of Beereana, are used by some 
medical men in West Africa at the present time, and, 
it is said, as of many other drugs, with good results. 

Transfusion of blood has been successfully prac- 
tised in high degrees of anaemia in some cases. Oxygen 
inhalations are indicated, but are rarely available. 
Intravenous injection of normal saline, of hypertonic 
saline, of neo-salvarsan, have each in certain cases 
been followed by recovery. Burkitt, finding acetone 
in the urine, has had good results from an active 
alkaline treatment with potassium and sodium bi- 
carbonate and calcium chloride. 

In desperate cases of suppression of urine, 
Stannus suggests, and has practised with temporary 
success in one case, incision of the kidney ; Sorel has 
employed intravenous injection of isotonic solution 
of sugar in six cases with success. 

Nursing is. a most important element in the man- 
agement of blackwater fever. If the stomach will 
retain food this should be given in a bland and 
fluid form, but there should be no attempt to force 
feeding, especially with rich and indigestible viands. 
One precaution against syncope must be sedulously 
enforced : the patient must not be allowed to sit up, 
much less to get out of bed, until food has been 
retained and assimilated, and the risk of sudden death 
from syncope has passed. 

If possible, the subject of a hsemoglobinuric 
attack should quit the endemic area, and never 
return to it, or to any malarial locality ; a severe 
attack, or a second attack, implying as they would 
special liability, should be regarded as imperative 
indications to this effect. 

Prophylaxis. All depressing and predisposing 
causes must be carefully avoided, more especially 
chill, fatigue, and malaria, and also irregular dosing 
with quinine. In blackwater regions those who 
are the subjects of malarial infection should take 
quinine systematically, never irregularly, and should 
be especially careful to continue its use, in the 
accustomed doses and at the accustomed intervals, 



292 BLACKWATER FEVER 

for at least six months after arrival in Europe. 
Most of the cases of blackwater I have seen in this 
country were, I believe, attributable to neglect of 
this precaution and to a big dose of quinine taken for 
a relapse of a malarial infection supposed to have died 
out. Those who have had blackwater should gradu- 
ally habituate themselves to quinine, beginning with 
minute doses i gr. slowly increased to 5 gr., which 
dose they should take daily while under the endemic 
influences, and at least for six mouths afterwards. 



CHAPTER XV 
DENGUE * 

Definition. A mosquito - conveyed specific fever 
occurring usually as a rapidly spreading epidemic 
and, in typical cases, characterized by a suddenly 
developed primary fever of about three days' duration, 
succeeded by a period of apyrexia actual or relative 
and this again by a milder secondary fever ac- 
companied by a rubeoloid eruption. Throughout the 
febrile stages, and often subsequently, severe rheu- 
matic-like pains are 9 prominent symptom. The 
disease in its active form lasts about a week and is 
attended with little, if any, mortality. 

Geographical distribution and mode ol 
spread. Most parts of the tropical world have 
been visited at one time or another by dengue. 
From a study of the dates of the various epidemics, it 
would seem that there is a tendency for it to assume 
pandemic characters about once in every twenty years. 
Perhaps of all places in the world it is most fre- 
quently met with in the West Indies. 

Recently dengue has appeared in Syria, Asia 
Minor, on the ^Egean shores of Greece and Turkey, 
and in North Queensland, Australia. Early in the 
last century it was seen in America, as far north 
as Charleston and Philadelphia in the United States, 
and as far south as Sao Paulo in the Brazils. 

Like other specific communicable diseases, dengue 
tends to advance along trade routes and lines of com- 
munication. Thus, starting from Zanzibar, the epidemic 
of 1870-73 first reached Aden. Thence it travelled 
to Suez on the one side and to India on the other. 
Passing to Singapore, it followed the trade routes to 

* According to Hirsch, the word "dengue" is derived from 
the Spanish equivalent of our word " dandy." The disease has 
received many names, such as " scarlatina rheumatica," " break- 
bone fever," etc. 

293 



294 DENGUE [CHAP. 

Cochin China and China, spreading at the same time 
to the islands of the Eastern Archipelago. From 
India it was carried by the coolie ships to Mauritius 
and Reunion in 1873. 

An epidemic which I witnessed in Amoy (1872) 
illustrated very well a characteristic feature of dengue 
epidemics namely, the peculiar suddenness of their 
rise and extension, and the general prevalence of the 
disease in an affected community. I am under the 
mark when I say that in this particular epidemic 
quite 75 per cent, of natives and foreigners were 
attacked within a very few weeks. All ages and occu- 
pations, both sexes, and people in every condition of 
life, were alike subject to it. About the first week in 
August I heard that a peculiar disease had appeared 
in the town ; by the end of the second week the cases 
were numerous, whole families being prostrated at a 
time. A week later the cases were still more numer- 
ous, and by the end of the month so general was the 
disease that the business of the town was seriously 
interfered with. By the end of the following month 
that is to say, in about eight weeks from the first 
appearance of the epidemic all the susceptible ap- 
parently had passed through it, and, so far as Amoy 
residents were concerned, the disease was at an end, 
cases occurring for a few weeks longer only in visitors 
from unaffected districts. This course seems to be 
fairly typical of all dengue epidemics.* 

Etiology. Germ. Various bacteria have been 
described. Graham describes an intracorpuscular 
amoeba, resembling Babesia bigemina, which he 
states he found in great profusion in the blood of 
dengue patients in Beyrout, Syria. He maintains 

* It is on my experience in this epidemic that I have based my 
description of dengue. In the vast majority of the cases the 
characteristic primary and secondary fevers, the initial and ter- 
minal skin rashes, and the rheumatic-like pains were well marked. 
Of course, as with all specific fevers, there was a proportion of 
atypical cases in which some of the characteristic symptoms were 
absent or only slightly marked. Remembering my experience of 
this epidemic, I cannot understand the difficulty some recent 
Indian observers seem to have in differentiating dengue from 
seven-days' fever and the like. The skin rashes alone should 
suffice, especially if taken in conjunction with the double fever 
and the pains. 



xv] ETIOLOGY 295 

that his experiments tend to show that, like yellow 
fever, dengue is communicated by a mosquito, Culex 
fatigans. Acting on this hypothesis he was able to 
protect families from dengue by means of mosquito 
nets. Ross is said to have extinguished the yearly 
epidemics in Port Said by anti-mosquito measures. 
Bancroft, who considers that the germ is ultra- 
microscopic, has advanced the same view in Australia 
in favour of Stegomyia fasciata. Experiments by 
Ashburn and Craig, made under favourable conditions, 
seemed to show that the germ of dengue resides in 
the liquor sanguinis, that it is ultramicroscopic and 
therefore unfilterable, that injected into non-immunes 
it gives rise to typical dengue, that under natural con- 
ditions it is transmitted by Culex fatigans through 
the salivary glands, that the incubation period of the 
experimental disease is from three to fourteen days, 
and that it is not contagious in the ordinary sense 
of that word. In these and in some other respects 
dengue has a striking parallelism to yellow fever. 

By a series of well-conceived and carefully- carried- 
out experiments Drs. Cleland, Bradley, and McDonald 
in Australia have now definitely proved that the 
virus of dengue is conveyed by Stegomyia calopus, 
and have rendered it highly improbable that Culex 
fatigans is a vector. They have shown, further, 
that the incubation period of the disease, dating from 
the infective bite, is from six to nine days. Im- 
portant points still undetermined are the duration 
of the infective stage in the blood, and the ripening 
process of the germ in the mosquito. 

Influences of meteorological conditions. When 
dengue spreads beyond its ordinary tropical limits, 
as, for example, in the epidemics of Philadelphia and 
Asia Minor, the extension occurs only during the 
hottest part of the year in the late summer and 
early autumn. Hitherto such epidemics have been 
arrested on the approach of winter. Even when 
occurring within the tropics, dengue prevails princi- 
pally, though not exclusively, during the hottest part 
of the year. High atmospheric temperature, there- 
fore, seems to be one of the conditions it demands. 



296 DENGUE [CHAP. 

Epidemics occur indifferently during the dry or 
the rainy seasons, the hygrometric condition of the 
atmosphere being without manifest influence. 

Usually a coast disease. It would appear that 
dengue, like yellow fever, prefers the coast line and 
the deltas and valleys of great rivers to the interior of 
continents. There are many exceptions to this rule ; 
in 1870-73 it spread all over India. The distribution 
and concentration of population on the seaboard and 
along rivers, the freedom of communication between 
communities that are so located, and the mosquito 
conditions probably determine this preference. 

As a rule, elevated places enjoy a relative 
immunity ; if the disease is introduced into such 
localities, it does not spread. To this, again, there 
are exceptions, for the Syrian epidemic referred to 
prevailed in certain spots 4,000 to 5,000 ft. above 
the sea. In the Mediterranean basin dengue is a 
disease of autumn months and generally follows the 
summer outbreak of phlebotomus fever. 

The incubation period seems to be somewhat 
variable. It is certainly not a long one. I have 
seen a case in which it could not have exceeded 
twenty-four hours. Some observers place it at five and 
even seven days ; this, I feel sure, is an over-estimate. 
One to three days seems to be near the truth.* 

Symptoms. Initial fever and eruption. An 
attack of dengue may be preceded for a few hours by 
a feeling of malaise, or, perhaps, by painful rheumatic- 
like twinges in a limb, toe, finger, or joint. Usually 
it sets in quite suddenly. A patient, describing his 
experience, said that in the morning he got up feeling 
quite well, but before he could complete his dressing 
he was so prostrated by pain and fever that further 
exertion was impossible, and he had to crawl back to 
bed again. Similar stories, illustrative of the sudden 
incidence of the symptoms, circulate during every 
epidemic of dengue. Sometimes the fever is ushered 
in by a feeling of chilliness or even by a smart 

* The observations on which these erroneous conclusions were 
based were made principally on the crews of ships, and before the 
role of the mosquito in dengue was suspected. 



xv] SYMPTOMS 297 

rigor ; sometimes a deep flushing of the face is the 
first sign of the disease. 

However introduced, fever rapidly increases. The 
head and eyeballs ache excessively, and some limb 
or joint, or even the whole body, is racked with 
peculiar stiff, rheumatic-like pains, which, as the 
patient soon discovers, are very much aggravated by 
movement. The loins are the seat of great discomfort, 
amounting in some cases to actual pain ; the face 
particularly the lower part of the forehead, round the 
eyes, and over the malar bones may become suffused 
a deep purple ; and often the skin over part or the 
whole of the body, and all visible mucous surfaces, are 
more or less flushed, that of the mouth and throat 
being sore from congestion and perhaps from small 
superficial erosions. The eyes are usually much 
injected ; very often the whole face is bloated and 
swollen. This congested erythematous state of the 
skin constitutes the so-called initial eruption. 

These symptoms becoming in severe cases rapidly 
intensified, the patient, in a few hours, is completely 
prostrated. His pulse has risen to 1 20 or over ; his 
temperature to 103 F., in some cases to 105, or even 
to 106. He is unable to move owing to the intense 
headache, the severe pain in limbs and loins, and 
the profound sense of febrile prostration. From time 
to time the skin may be moistened by an abortive 
perspiration, but for the most part it is hot and dry. 
Gastric oppression is apt to be urgent, and vomiting 
may occur. Gradually the tongue acquires a moist, 
creamy fur which, as the fever progresses, tends to 
become dry and yellow. 

Defervescence. In this condition the patient may 
continue from one to three or four days, the fever 
declining somewhat after the first day. In the vast 
majority of cases this, the first and most acute 
stage, is abruptly terminated about the end of the 
second day by crisis of diaphoresis, diarrhoea, diuresis, 
or epistaxis. When epistaxis occurs the relief to the 
headache is great and immediate. On the occurrence 
of crisis the erythematous condition of the skin, if 
it has not already disappeared, rapidly subsides. In 



298 DENGUE [CHAP. 

a proportion of cases, and particularly in certain 
epidemics, crisis does not occur, the fever slowly 
declining during a period of three or four days. Thus 
the urgent symptoms abate, and the patient rapidly, 
or more slowly, passes from what, in many cases, may 
be described as the agony of the first stage to the 
comparative calm and comfort of the second. 

The interval. When the second stage is estab- 
lished and the thermometer has sunk to normal, 
the patient is sufficiently well to leave his bed and 
even to attend to business. An occasional twinge 
in leg, arm, or finger, or a tenderness of the soles 
of the feet, and perhaps giddiness in walking, may 
remind him of what he has gone through and warn 
him that he is not quite well yet. But the tongue 
cleans, and the appetite and sense of well-being return 
to some extent. 

Terminal fever and eruption. This state of com- 
paratively good health continues to the fourth, fifth, 
sixth, or even to the seventh day, counting from 
the commencement of the illness. Then there is 
generally a return of fever, slight in most cases, more 
severe in others. It is usually of very short dura- 
tion a few hours. Sometimes this secondary fever 
does not occur ; probably it is often overlooked. With 
the recurrence of the fever an eruption of a rubeolar 
character appears. The pains likewise return, per- 
haps in more than their original severity. Though 
the fever subsides in a few hours, the eruption, at 
times very evanescent, may keep out for two or 
three days longer, to be followed very generally by 
an imperfect furfuraceous desquamation. It seldom 
happens that the fever or pains at this stage keep the 
patient in bed, although that is the best place for him 
if a comfortable and speedy convalescence is desired. 
Rarely, in this secondary fever, does the thermometer 
rise to 103 F. The temperature falls rapidly to below 
normal on the setting-in of diaphoresis, or diarrhoea, 
or of some form of crisis. 

Characters of the eruption. The terminal eruption 
of dengue possesses very definite characters. It is 
absent in a very few cases only; in many of those 



xv] SYMPTOMS 299 

cases in which it is supposed to be absent, being 
slight, it is overlooked. As stated, the eruption is 
rubeolar in character. It usually commences on the 
palms and backs of the hands, extending for a short 
distance up the forearms Its development is often 
associated with sensations of pricking and tingling. 
On the palms of the hands the spots are at first about 
the size of a small pea, circular, dusky red, and 
sometimes slightly elevated. The eruption quickly 
extends, and is best seen on the back, chest, upper 
arms, and thighs. In these situations it appears at 
first as isolated, slightly elevated, circular, reddish- 
brown, rubeoloid spots, from one-eighth to one-half 
of an inch in diameter, thickly scattered over the 
surface, each spot being isolated and surrounded by 
sound skin. After a time the spots, enlarging, may 
coalesce in places; thus irregular red patches from 
1 to 3 in. in diameter are formed. Or perhaps there 
is a general coalescence of spots, isolating here and 
there patches of sound skin ; in this case the islands 
of sound skin give rise, at first sight, to the impression 
that they constitute the eruption a pale eruption, as 
it were, on a scarlet ground. In a few instances the 
whole integument may be covered with one unbroken 
sheet of red. The rash is usually most profuse on 
the hands, wrists, elbows, and knees ; in these situa- 
tions it is generally coalescent, and there, too, it may 
be detected though absent elsewhere. The spots 
disappear on pressure, and never or rarely become 
petechial. They fade in the order in which they 
appear first on the wrist and hands ; then on the 
neck, face, thighs, and body ; last on the legs and feet. 
Slowing of the pulse as the fever advances, and 
leucopenia as in yellow fever, have been remarked. 

Desquamation. Desquamation may go on for two 
or three weeks. In many it is trifling in amount } 
for the most part it is furfuraceous. Rarely does the 
epidermis peel off in flakes of any magnitude ; never 
in the broad sheets seen after scarlatina. Often for 
a day or two desquamation is accompanied by intense 
pruritus. 

Convalescence. In some instances, and in some 



300 DENGUE [CHAP. 

epidemics, the disease terminates with the fading of 
the eruption ; appetite and strength gradually return, 
and the patient, after a few days of debility, feels 
well again. Bradycardia may persist for a time. 

The rheumatoid pains. With most, their troubles 
do not end so soon. For days or weeks some muscle, 
tendon, or joint is the seat of the peculiar pains, which 
may become so severe as to send their victim back to 
bed again. Sometimes, three or four weeks after all 
apparent trace of the disease has vanished, a joint or 
a muscle will be suddenly disabled by an attack of 
this description. This may occur in patients who, 
during the acute stage, suffered little or no pain. A 
finger or toe, or a joint of a finger or of a toe, may 
alone suffer. Of all the joints, perhaps the knee is 
most frequently affected ; but wrists or shoulders are 
often attacked, and their associated muscles may even 
undergo considerable atrophy from enforced disuse. 
The soles of the feet, too, and the tarsal articulations 
are favourite sites. 

The pains of dengue those occurring during 
the initial fever as well as those that may be regarded 
as sequelae are difficult to locate with precision ; the 
joints or muscles affected may be percussed, pressed, 
or moved with impunity. Du Brun locates those 
associated with the knee in the thigh muscles, which, 
he says, are painful on deep pressure. 

The pains are worst usually on getting out of bed 
in the morning, and on moving the affected part after 
it has been at rest for some time ; they are relieved 
somewhat by rest and warmth. Passive movements 
are, as stated, not painful, but any resistance to the 
movement of the limb may cause acute suffering. 
When a muscle is affected the pain is accompanied by 
a sense of powerlessness. 

Other complications and sequelce. Convalescence 
may be very much delayed by the persistence of 
these pains ; also by anorexia, by general debility, 
mental depression, sleeplessness, evanescent feverish 
attacks, by boils, urticarial, lichenoid, and papular 
eruptions, and by troublesome pruritus. Among 
sequelae and complications may be mentioned enlarge- 



xv] MORTALITY 301 

ment of the lymphatic glands (particularly the 
superficial cervical), orchitis, possibly endocarditis 
and pericarditis, hyperpyrexia, purpura, and haemor- 
rhages from the mouth, nose, bowel, and uterus. 
Miscarriage is rare. The urine sometimes contains a 
trace of albumin, but true nephritis does not occur. 

Variability oi epidemic type. Judging from 
the published descriptions, there is considerable variety 
in the symptoms of this disease in different places and 
in different epidemics. Some authors mention swelling 
and redness of one or more joints as a common and 
prominent symptom ; others refer to metastasis of the 
pains, enlargement of submaxillary glands, orchitis, 
mental depression, haemorrhages, and so forth, as 
being frequently present. However this may be, 
the essential symptoms in well-marked cases are the 
same practically everywhere, and in all epidemics ; 
these are, suddenness of the rise of temperature, 
an initial stage of skin congestion, limb and joint 
pains, and a terminal rubeoloid eruption. 

Relapses are not uncommon in dengue, and 
second and even third attacks during the same epi- 
demic have been recorded. As a rule, however, sus- 
ceptibility to the disease is exhausted by one attack. 
According to Hare, in a recent Australian epidemic 
the immunity acquired by an attack did not persist 
beyond one year. 

mortality. In uncomplicated dengue the mor- 
tality may be said to be almost nil (O'l per cent., 
Hare), In the case of very young children, con- 
vulsions and delirium may occur and cause anxiety ; 
and in the aged and infirm, and in those suffering 
from chronic exhausting disease, an attack of dengue 
may prove a serious complication. Charles describes 
a pernicious form which, though rare, was very much 
dreaded in Calcutta. In these cases the lungs became 
oedematous, and the patient, growing drowsy and 
cyanotic, rapidly passed into a comatose condition 
with a tendency to hyperpyrexia, and died. Some 
writers state that the gravity of any given case is in 
direct proportion to the abundance of the eruption ; 
others deny this. 



302 DENGUE [CHAP. 

In Europeans an attack of dengue very often 
leads to a condition of debility necessitating temporary 
change of climate, or even return to Europe. In 
both Europeans and natives the attendant lower- 
ing of the resisting powers predisposes to other and 
more dangerous diseases, such as malaria, dysentery, 
phthisis, and so forth ; consequently dengue, other- 
wise a benign disease, may become a source of pub- 
lic danger. It is probable that it is in this indirect 
way that the general mortality is increased during a 
visitation of this disease, as has been observed in 
several epidemics. 

Morbid anatomy. On account of the low 
mortality, post-mortem records are few. Nogue, who 
observed two epidemics of dengue in Cochin China 
(1895-96), made four post-mortem examinations in 
this disease. In these, pulmonary and intracranial 
inflammation were the special features. The menin- 
gitis amounted to adhesions and sero-purulent infil- 
tration of the pia mater. 

Diagnosis. Dengue must not be confounded 
with yellow fever, rotheln, scarlatina, measles, syphilitic 
roseola, influenza, cerebro- spinal meningitis, seven- 
days' fever, rheumatic and malarial fevers. A know- 
ledge of the distinctive features of these diseases, and 
the fact that dengue is attended with a rash and with 
articular pains, and that it occurs in great and rapidly 
spreading epidemics, should prevent any serious error 
in diagnosis. According to Ashburn and Craig, there 
is a well-marked leucopenia in dengue averaging 3,800 
per c.mm., with relative increase of the small leuco- 
cytes. This in some circumstances may prove an aid 
to diagnosis. 

Treatment. Were it possible to secure perfect 
isolation for the individual during an epidemic of 
dengue, doubtless he would escape the disease. Even 
comparative isolation is attended with diminished 
liability. In Amoy, in the epidemic of 1872, those 
foreigners who lived in a more or less isolated sub- 
urban situation were very much less affected than 
were those who lived in the native town, or than 
those whose occupations threw them much into 



xv] TREATMENT 303 

contact with the natives. But, though this and 
similar facts point to the theoretical possibility of 
avoiding dengue during an epidemic, in the ordinary 
conditions of life in the tropics prophylactic measures 
for the mass are impracticable. Specially delicate 
individuals, particularly the subjects of tubercular 
or renal disease, should be isolated, or, better, 
should leave for a time the epidemic locality. 

Like the allied fevers, dengue runs a definite 
course ; therefore it is useless to attempt to cut it 
short. The patient should go to bed so soon as he 
feels ill, and he should keep his room till the terminal 
eruption has quite disappeared and he feels well 
again. Ten days is not too long to allow in severe 
attacks. As in influenza, light liquid diet, rest, and 
the avoidance of chill conduce powerfully to a speedy 
and sound convalescence. At the outset of the fever 
some saline diaphoretic mixture, with aconite, may be 
prescribed with advantage. If the pains be severe 
and the fever high, antipyrin, or phenacetin, or bella- 
donna will give great relief. Cold applications to 
the head are comforting. If the temperature rises 
to 105 F. or over, cold sponging or the cold bath 
ought to be had recourse to. If the pains continue 
very distressing, a hypodermic injection of a minute 
dose (y 1 ^ gr.) of morphia will afford welcome relief 
and do no harm. Purgatives and emetics should be 
avoided unless pronounced constipation, or a history 
of surfeit, urgently demands their exhibition. The 
pain caused by the muscular movements entailed by 
the efficient action of purgatives more than counter- 
balances any advantage the latter might otherwise 
bring. Wine in the early stage is not advisable. 
Freshly made lemonade, or iced water, will be found 
acceptable drinks during the fever. 

For the pains experienced during convalescence, 
rubbing with opium or belladonna liniment, gentle 
massage, electricity, salicylates, small doses of iodide 
of potassium and quinine, have been advocated. De- 
bility, or anorexia, indicates tonics such as quinine, 
strychnine, mineral acids, or vegetable bitters, and 
change of air. 



CHAPTER XVI 
PHLEBOTOMUS FEVER 

Definition. A specific fever of short duration and 
no mortality, caused by a germ ultramicroscopic 
introduced by the bite of the sand-fly (phlebotomus). 

History. This disease has been recognized 
clinically for upwards of a century and described 
under a variety of local names ; but its definite 
relation to its transmitting agent, although suspected 
by McCarrison (if his three days' fever of Chitral be 
the same) in 1903 and by Taussig in 1905, was not 
established till 1908, when Doerr published his 
observations of the infectivity of the blood in this 
form of fever and the role of the sand-fly as trans- 
mitter. Doerr's conclusions have been confirmed by 
numerous observers in Malta and elsewhere around 
the Mediterranean, including Kilroy. Kilroy exposed 
himself for five nights to the bites of sand-flies on 
Suda Island, where these insects are particularly 
abundant and where phlebotomus fever is prevalent ; 
subsequently, at the end of the first day of his fever, 
he injected his blood into a healthy man and thereby 
communicated the disease. 

Geographical and seasonal distribution. 
The range of phlebotomus fever is probably co- 
extensive with that of the insect transmitter. In the 
tropics it may break out at any time as an epidemic 
amongst new arrivals ; in the sub-tropics it occurs 
only or principally during the summer and early 
autumn. Where the phlebotomus is absent, e.g. 
Bermuda (Birt), the fever is not found. In some 
phlebotomus-haunted places as many as 50 per cent, 
of new-comers are attacked. 

Etiology. The germ resides in the blood of 
the patient during the first day or two of the 
fever. It is ultramicroscopic, passing through filters 
304 



ETIOLOGY 



305 



which arrest Micrococcus melitensis. According to 
Doerr it is transmitted hereditarily through the egg 
and larva of phlebotomus to the imago ; this, however, 
has not been firmly established experimentally. 

Representatives of the genus Phlebotomus are to 
be found in most tropical and sub-tropical countries. 
The various species are usually designated "sand- 
flies." They are exceedingly minute, very delicate, 
yellowish, greyish, or brownish, somewhat slenderly 
built insects that bite principally during the night and 




Fig. 62. Female phlebotomus. (After Alcock.) 

that can pass easily through the meshes of an ordinary 
mosquito net. At rest the wings are uplifted. The 
legs are long and slender ; the wings, body and 
antennae are thickly covered with short hairs. The 
joints of the antennae are constricted. The proboscis 
is as long as the head. The tips of the piercing 
apparatus (which in other respects resembles that of 
the mosquito) project beyond the labium. The leaf- 
shaped wings are somewhat narrow and show all 
three branches of the second longitudinal vein very 
distinctly. (Fig. 62.) 

P. papatasii (the species on which Doerr's observe. 



306 



PHLEBOTOMUS FEVER 



[CHAFi 



tions were made, hence one of the names for the 
disease, papatasii fever) lays about forty eggs, select- 
ing for the purpose damp localities such as the walls 
of cellars, of latrines, cesspools, crevices in walls, caves 
and embankments. The cycle of egg, larva and imago 
takes about one month in warm and upwards of two 
months in cooler weather to complete. The duration 
of the life of the imago is not known. It is difficult 
to keep it in captivity ; under such conditions it rarely 
lives as long as fifteen days.* 




Fig. 63. a, Abdomen of female phlebotomus, showing e^gs ; b young 
phlebotomus. (After Alcock.) 

There has been much confusion in the nomen- 
clature of the various species of phlebotomus, and 
it has not been determined which of them, other 
than P. papatasii, convey the infection. 

Pathology. Yellow fever, dengue and phle- 
botomus fever have several important points in 
common, a circumstance suggestive of the possibility 
of a common or, at all events, a similar origin. Each 
is transmitted by an insect; their germs occur in 
the blood-stream and are ultramicroscopic ; they are 

* Lately, Wenycm has succeeded in keeping these insects alive 
as long as fifty days. 



xvi] SYMPTOMS TREATMENT 307 

diseases of warm climates only ; and, clinically, they 
are characterized by a short incubation period, a 
short and rapidly developed fever which is usually 
associated with relatively slow pulse and leucopenia, 
with relative decrease of the polynuclears. It would 
be interesting to ascertain if these diseases are 
mutually protective. 

Symptoms. These are practically the same as 
those described by McCarrison for the three-days' 
fever of Chitral, now regarded, as suggested by that 
observer, as being caused possibly by the sand-fly. 
After an incubation period of from one to six days, 
with or without a prodromal stage, the fever is 
ushered in by slight or more severe rigor. The face 
becomes flushed, headache is intense, and there is 
usually severe general aching. In from twenty-four 
to thirty-six hours the temperature has reached 
103-4 F. It keeps about this point for a day longer, 
and then begins to fall, with or without epistaxis, 
vomiting, sweating, or diarrhoea, reaching the normal 
about the end of the third or beginning of the fourth 
day. The patient continues debilitated, especially 
mentally, for a week or two longer. 

Serious complications do not occur, but in some 
years diarrhoea, in other years pharyngitis, are features 
of the epidemic. 

There are no important sequelae. Desquamation 
is very rare ; a point which, together with the absence 
of an eruption, serves to differentiate this fever from 
dengue, a disease resembling it in many respects. 
The mortality is nil in the healthy. 

Treatment. There is no specific known for 
this disease. Treatment must therefore be conducted 
on general principles. 

As it would appear that three-days' fever is a 
disease of locality, houses and places believed to 
be infected should be avoided, and, where possible, 
disinfected. 

With a view to diminishing the local sand- fly 
pest, all rubbish should be burned or otherwise got 
rid of, ruinous walls should be demolished, latrines 
smoked with sulphur fumes and put into sanitary 



308 PHLEBOTOMUS FEVER [CHAP. 

condition, dark damp places dried, whitewashed, and 
ventilated. By these and similar measures much can 
be done to control the infection. Unfortunately, a 
mosquito-net having a mesh sufficiently small to keep 
out sand-flies is intolerable to a white man in a hot 
climate, and the influence of the essential oils is too 
evanescent to be of practical value. 

CHARACTERS OF THE GENUS PHLEBOTOMUS 

Small hairy flies from 1 '5-2' 5 mm. in length, easily recog- 
nized by their form and thick hairy coat. The females only 
suck blood; in some people the bite causes a considerable local 
disturbance, in others little or none. 

The greater part of the body is covered with long yellow 
hairs, for the most part, probably, modified scales. The an- 
tennae have sixteen joints. The proboscis is as long as the 
head and contains a number of piercing organs. 

The wings are definitely pointed, and on removal of the 
outer coating of scales the venation can be seen. The insect 
possesses six slender legs. The abdomen is divided into ten 
segments. 

In; the female the abdomen is spindle-shaped, and is pro- 
vided with an upper and a lower pair of small claspers. In the 
male there are five pairs of sexual appendages the upper and 
lower claspers, and various other structures known as the " sub- 
median lamellae," "intermediate appendages," and "intro- 
mittent organ" (Newstead). 

The female lays her eggs in rubble walls and in caves. 
The eggs, six to nine days after being laid, hatch into twelve- 
segmented caterpillar-like larvae (Fig. 63), further characterized 
by two pairs of bristles on the posterior extremity and by the 
absence of eyes or organs of locomotion. In six to eight weeks 
the larvae are 5 mm. in length, and feed on organic detritus and 
algae. The pupae are fixed in crevices of stones, slates, etc., 
the imagines emerging after fourteen days (Marett). 

In the classification of these insects, entomologists have 
relied on the slender differences afforded by the venation of 
the wings, the length of segments of the palps, the number 
and arrangement of the bristles or spines on the claspers. 
Up to the present there has been little agreement on this 
subject. A synoptical table of the genus follows ; but it 
should be remembered that this classification must be regarded 
as temporary until the group has been more extensively 
studied. 

Great care must be exercised in the preservation of speci- 
mens for identification. The insects should be placed in a 
web-like layer of teased cotton-wool, but must not be covered 
with the wool, as even such slight pressure breaks their 
appendages. 



xvi] GENUS PHLEBOTOMUS 309 



SYNOPSIS OP THE GENUS 

ASIATIC AND AMERICAN SPECIES 
Marginal cell 

(Head and abdomen brown; sides of thorax 
coxae, and trochanters yellowish; legs, 
antenna), and palpi grey ; wings .blue irid- 
escence. P. argentipes (India). 

Length of 2nd marginal cell more than I Grey, wings bluish iridescence. Greatest 
1 length of wing. breadth of wing inot quite J its length. 

P. major (India) 

Length of 2nd marginal cell nearly J { Thorax, abdomen, and legs brown; wings 
length of wing. Pour spines on "j purplish. Greatest breadth of wing 1 its 
appendages of <J. L length. P. malabaricus (India). 

Length of 2nd marginal cell less than f Grey. Greatest breadth of wing between 
J length of wing. \ j and i its length. P. babu (India). 

Length of 2nd marginal cell more than / Yellowish-grey. Greatest breadth of wing 
| length of wing. Superior append- j slightly over J its length. P. himalayensis 
ages of <$ bear three spines. I (India). 

Length of 2nd marginal cell a little / Head and thorax yellowish-brown. Greatest 
more than i length of wing. -j breadth of wing | its length. P. perturbans 

( (Java). 

Length of 2nd marginal cell barely f Wings long and narrow. P. angustipennis 
J length of wing. I (Java). 

Length of 2nd marginal cell twice J Yellow; mesonotum brown. P. vexator (N. 
length of its petiole. I America). 

Length of 2nd marginal cell thrice f Hairs chiefly yellow, otherwise like P. vexator 
length of its petiole. 1 P. cruciatus (Guatemala). 

EUROPEAN SPECIES 
Terminal segment of upper clasper 

Terminal segment of upper clasper of 
6 slightly longer than lower seg- 
ment. 



palpi a little longer than 3rd. P. papatatii 
(Europe, Asia and Africa). 



Terminal segment of upper clasper of I Resembles P. papatasii, distinguished by 
<J slightly longer than lower seg- i darker integument and by shorter 6th longi- 
ment. I tudinal vein. P. nigerrimus (Europe). 

Five spines of terminal segment of \ 

upper clasper very long and falci- I p mascimi (It , , 

form, otherwise resembles P. papa- f 
tasii. 

Terminal segment of upper clasper of f Abdominal hairs more or less erect. 
6 half the length of the lower -{ 2nd and 3rd segments of palpi equal in length. 
clasper. V p. perniciosus (Malta and Asia). 

/ 2nd segment of palp half the length of the 
Terminal segment of upper clasper of I Qf $ p 

3 with only four spine*. { (Europe> Agja> and Afdca) 

Additional species have lately been described P. roslrans'^8. America) distinguished 
by the large size of its head,- P. marginatus zeylanic.us (Ceylou), P. antennatus (Gold 
Coast), P. squamipleuris (Khartoum), P. dubosqii( Africa), P. sqicamiventris&nfL longipalpis 
(Brazil). It must be distinctly understood that this list is by no means final. 



CHAPTER XVII 
SPOTTED FEVER OF THE ROCKY MOUNTAINS 

Definition. A specific fever resembling symptom- 
atically typhus exanthematicus, supervening on the 
bite of a tick Dermacentor venustus, Banks. 

History. For upwards of thirty years a peculiar 
disease variously named "spotted fever," "blue dis- 
ease," " black fever," has been recognized as endemic 
in limited districts of Montana and Idaho, United 
States of America. It was first described by Maxey, 
in 1899, as a distinct disease, and in the spring of 
1902 it was investigated by Wilson and Chowning, 
who attributed it to the presence in the blood of a 
parasite akin to the babesia of Texas cattle fever. 
Their results were endorsed by Wesbrook, Cobb and 
Anderson; but in May, 1904, Wardell Stiles failed 
to recognize the parasite, either in fresh preparations 
of the blood or in the preparations of previous in- 
vestigators. Other observers have been equally un- 
successful ; the existence of the so-called Pyrosoma 
hominis is now discredited, and the germ of Rocky 
Mountain fever is still unknown. 

In 1906 King definitely ascertained that the 
disease supervened on the bite of" a certain tick, 
Dermacentor venustus (D. andersoni) (Figs.* 64, 65), 
a discovery subsequently confirmed by Ricketts, who 
succeeded in conveying the infection to a monkey 
by means of an infected tick. McClintick in 1911, 
in researches conducted at the instance of the 
United States Government, failed to communicate 
the disease to guineapigs, but unfortunately himself 
contracted the infection and died. 

Geographical distribution. The disease has 

been reported for several of the Western States of 

the American Union Idaho, Montana, Wyoming, 

Utah, Nevada, Oregon, and Washington State. It is 

310 



SYMPTOMS 



311 



believed to occur also in the Alaska territory. It is 
found principally in valleys and near the foot-hills of 
mountains in sharply-defined and limited areas, and is 
confined to the spring months, the greatest number of 
cases occurring between March and July. It attacks 
any age, either sex, and is not directly contagious. 

Symptom*. A short period of malaise is 
followed by chills, which are repeated with diminish- 




Fig. 64. Dennacentor venustus, <$ . (By courtesy of Prof. Nuttall.) 

ing severity at irregular intervals throughout the 
attack. By the second day the temperature has risen to 
103 or 104 F., and by the fifth day to 105 or 107. 
A typhoid-like condition, with low muttering delirium 
and semi-consciousness, is rapidly developed. If the 
patient is to recover, the temperature begins to fall 
about the end of the second week, fever subsiding 
usually by lysis. 

About from the fourth to the seventh day an 



312 



SPOTTED FEVER 



[CHAP. 



eruption appears on the wrists, ankles or back, 
extending rapidly to the trunk, scalp, hands, and feet. 
At first ib consists of minute rose-coloured spots ; 
these soon assume a petechial character and, spread- 
ing, tend to become confluent, especially on the more 
dependent parts of the body and limbs. In other 
instances the spots remain discrete, brownish or 
purplish in colour, giving to the surface of the body 




Fig. 65. Dermacentor venustus, ?. (By courtesy oj Prof. Nuttall.) 

a speckled appearance. A certain amount of icteric 
tinting of skin and sclerse is also present. During 
the third week desquamation sets in, the eruption 
fading as fever subsides. In some cases the skin of 
the elbows, fingers, toes, lobes of the ears, etc., 
becomes gangrenous. 

Constipation is usual. The liver is slightly en- 
larged, the spleen markedly enlarged and tender. 
The scanty, high-coloured urine may contain albumin 
and casts. Early, in all severe cases, there is oadema 
of the face and limbs. Nausea and vomiting set in 



xvn] PATHOLOGY 313 

about the beginning of the second week, and per- 
sist in fatal cases. Respiration is rapid. Slight 
catarrh of the respiratory tract is present through- 
out ; the pulse loses in volume as it increases in fre- 
quency. There is but little diminution in the blood 
count, and only a feeble leucocytosis 12,000 to 
1 3,000 ; the haemoglobin is slightly diminished. 

Pathology. Post-mortem, in addition to the 
foregoing skin lesions,, there is marked hypostatic 
congestion of the lungs, subserous petechia?, softened 
myocardium, enlarged and softened spleen, fatty 
degeneration of the hepatic cells, and congestion of 
the cortex of the kidneys. 

Etiology. The evidence is now conclusive that 
the germ of Rocky Mountain fever is introduced by 
the bites of D. venustus* It is only the adult that 
attacks man. The- Rocky Mountain goat and the 
domestic sheep also serve as hosts to the adult forms, 
but the larval and nymph stages develop principally 
on the ground squirrel, Citellus columbianus, and the 
woodchuck, Marmotaflaviventer. The tick takes two 
years to develop, hibernating during the winter, 
feeding but languidly after the beginning of August, 
and reviving during the first warm days in April. 
It is possible that the Rocky Mountain goat serves 
as a natural reservoir of the disease virus. 

According to Ricketts, the unrecognised germ is 
intimately attached to the blood corpuscles, is easily 
inoculated into man, and can be passed through an 
indefinite series of monkeys and guineapigs, giving rise 
in them to the characteristic symptoms, and producing 
immunitv. The larvae, nymph, and adult male and 
female tick are all of them efficient intermediaries 
Ricketts suggests, seeing that in one place Montana 
the case mortality in man is as high as 90 percent., 
whereas in another place Idaho it is only 5 per 
cent., that there are two species of tick, in the 
former D. venustus, in the latter D. maturatus, 

* D. I'enustus and D. andersoni are the same species. The 
differences in the nomenclature of the tick used by various 
authors have resulted in a good deal of confusion. D. reticu- 
latHK and D. accidentalis, apparently distinct species, have at 
various times been incriminated as carriers of the infection. 



314 SPOTTED FEVER 

capable of transmitting the infection. The propor- 
tion of infected ticks in natural conditions is small ; 
only 1 in 296 in Ricketts' experience. 

In conformity with the seasonal prevalence of the 
tick, the disease in man is commonest in April, May, 
and June.* 

Treatment and prophylaxis. In the absence 
of a specific remedy, treatment must be conducted 
on general principles, having regard to the natural 
history and nature of the disease. Attempts at 
prophylaxis are now being carried out, based on the 
above-described hypothetical method of transmission 
of the disease. War is being waged on the ground 
squirrel and the woodchuck ; domestic stock and goats 
are being systematically dipped to prevent the spread 
of and, if possible, to exterminate the tick. 

Fricks, finding that if D. venustus is placed on 
the fleece of an unshorn sheep it either dies or 
remains unimpregnated, and is manifestly on an 
uncongenial host, has suggested, in addition to the 
measures just mentioned, turning the badly infected 
districts into sheep-runs. 

* Tick paralysis. According to Hadwen, the tick, 
D. renustus, as it occurs in the dry district of British Columbia, 
Keremeos, gives rise to a peculiar form of paraplegia in sheep 
which, directly or indirectly, may prove fatal. In the same dis- 
trict it affects man and other animals in a similar way. Todd has 
called attention to this disease, of which he has collected a con- 
siderable number of cases, some of them fatal. Nuttall, working 
in Cambridge, England, has confirmed Hadwen's experiments. 
He placed one of the ticks received from Hadwen on a healthy 
dog. Twelve days afterwards the dog became completely para- 
lysed in fore- and hind-legs. Ultimately it gradually recovered. 

This form of tick disease is manifestly different from Eocky 
Mountain fever, as it is non-febrile, is unattended with eruption, 
and is not communicable by inoculation. Possibly it is produced 
by a poison instilled by the'tick during haustellation. The wound 
it makes is very painful, is attended with oadema and, on forcible 
removal of the tick, with free bleeding as if some anticoaguliu 
had been introduced. 

In sheep the favourite points of attachment of the tick are on 
the back along the course of the spine ; in man, the nape of the 
neck. 

A somewhat similar form of paralysis is described by Eaton as 
following on tick bite in Queensland, Australia, the incriminated 
tick being Ixodes ricinus. Bancroft reports from the same 
country a similarly caused form of epileptiform convulsions in 
cats and dogs. 



CHAPTER XVIII 
JAPANESE RIVER FEVER (SHIMA MUSHI) 

Definition. An acute endemic disease running a 
definite course and attended with a considerable mor- 
tality. It is characterized by the presence on the skin 
of an initial eschar, supervening on the bite of a 
species of Trombidium. This is followed by an 
ulcer, lymphatitis, fever, an exanthematous eruption, 
bronchitis, and conjunctivitis. 

History. This disease was first described by 
Palm in 1878, and subsequently, and more fully, by 
Baelz and Kawakami. 

Geographical and seasonal distribution. 
So far as known, shima mushi is confined to the 
banks of two rivers on the west side of the island of 
Nippon the Shinanogawa and one of its tributaries, 
and the Omonagawa. Every spring these rivers in- 
undate large tracts of country. Later in the year 
hemp is raised on strips of the inundated district. 
The crop is reaped in July and August, and it is 
solely among those engaged in harvesting and handling 
this that the disease occurs. It is not communicable 
by the sick to the healthy. Although transportable 
in the hemp to a very slight extent, it is only in 
limited spots here and there in the endemic districts 
that the virus originates. 

Etiology. The Japanese attribute this disease 
to the bite of a larval acarus (locally called aka mushi 
red insect) resembling the Leptus autumnalis of 
Europe. Baelz rejects this idea, but does not ex- 
plain how otherwise the virus is introduced. Men, 
women, and children are equally susceptible. New 
arrivals in infected districts are said to be the 
most liable. One attack does not confer immunity, 
although it may render subsequent attacks less 
315 



316 JAPANESE RIVER FEVER [CHAP. 

severe. As yet the virus of the disease, which 
doubtless enters in the first instance at the site of 
the primary eschar, has not been discovered. Miza- 
yima states that shima mushi is communicable to the 
monkey by the bite of the insect, and also by inocu- 
lation from a human patient. 

Symptoms. After an incubation period of from 
four to seven days the disease usually begins with 
malaise, frontal and temporal headache, anorexia, 
chills alternating with flushes of heat, and prostration. 
Presently the patient becomes conscious of pain and 
tenderness in the lymphatic glands of the groin, arm- 
pit, or neck. On inspecting the skin of the corre- 
sponding lymphatic area there is discovered usually 
about the genitals or armpits a small (2 to 4 mm.), 
round, dark, tough, firmly adherent eschar surrounded 
by a painless livid red areola of superficial congestion. 
Occasionally two or three such eschars are discovered. 
Although a line of tenderness may be traced from the 
sore to the swollen, hard, and sensitive glands, no 
well-defined cord of lymphatitis can be made out. The 
superficial lymphatic glands of the rest of the body, 
especially those on the opposite side corresponding to 
the glands primarily affected, are also, but more 
slightly, enlarged. 

Fever of a more or less continued type now sets 
in, the thermometer mounting in the course of five or 
six days to 40 or 4P C. The conjunctive become 
injected, and the eyes somewhat prominent ; at the 
same time a considerable bronchitis gives rise to 
harassing cough. The pulse is full and strong, 
ranging rather low 80 to 100 for the degree of 
fever present. The spleen is moderately but dis- 
tinctly enlarged, and there is marked constipation. 

About the sixth or seventh day an eruption of 
large dark-red papules appears on the face, tending to 
become confluent on the cheeks. It then extends to 
the forearms, legs, and trunk, being less pronounced 
on the upper arms, thighs, neck, and palate. Simul- 
taneously with the papules a minute lichenous 
eruption breaks out on the forearms and trunk. 
This lasts usually from four to seven days ; if but 



XVHI] SYMPTOMS 317 

slightly marked the eruption may fade in twenty-four 
hours. 

The patients during the height of the fever are 
flushed, and at night, it may be, delirious. They com- 
plain incessantly, probably on account of a general 
hyperaesthesia of skin and muscles. Deafness is also 
a feature. 

As the disease advances, the symptoms become 
more urgent; the conjunctivitis is intensified, the 
cough becomes incessant, the tongue dries, the lips 
crack and bleed, and there may be from time to 
time profuse perspiration. By the end of the second 
week sooner or later according to the severity of 
the case the fever begins to remit, the tongue to 
clean, and, after a few days, temperature falls 
to normal, and the patient speedily convalesces. 
Ashburn and Craig have noted a well-marked leuco- 
penia. The red cells are normal. Diarrhoea or 
diuresis may occur during the decline of the fever. 
The circular, sharp-edged, deep ulcer left after the 
separation of the primary eschar an event which 
usually takes place during the second week now 
begins to heal, and the enlargement of the glands 
gradually to subside. 

Such is the course of a moderately severe case. 
In some instances, however, the. constitutional dis- 
turbance is very slight, although the primary eschar 
may be well marked and perhaps extensive. On the 
other hand, the fever may be much more violent, and 
complications such as parotitis, melaena, coma, mania, 
cardiac failure, or oedema of the lungs may end in 
death. Similarly, the duration of the disease varies 
according to severity from one to four weeks, three 
weeks being about the average. 

Pregnant women contracting shima mushi mostly 
abort and die. 

The mortality in those attacked is approxi- 
mately about 27 per cent. 

Pathological anatomy. Beyond evidences 
of bronchial catarrh, hypostatic pneumonia, enlarged 
spleen, perisplenitis, patchy reddening of the intestine 
near the ileo-csecal valve, injection of the peritoneum, 



318 JAPANESE RIVER FEVER 

and slight enlargement of the mesenteric and super- 
ficial lymphatic glands, no noteworthy lesions have 
been described. 

Treatment. On the supposition that the disease 
is introduced by an insect, or through a wound of 
some sort, care should be exercised by those engaged 
in hemp culture in the endemic district to protect 
and keep clean the skin, especially that about the 
genitals and armpits. There is no specific remedy for 
the disease ; treatment must therefore be conducted 
on general principles. 



CHAPTER XIX 
RAT-BITE DISEASE 

Definition and description. A disease, ac- 
cording to Hata, long known to Japanese physicians, 
but until lately little known in Europe, America, or 
Africa. It is characterized by a local disturbance 
at the site of inoculation, and by general fever which 
is often accompanied by a papular rash. The mor- 
tality is low, about 10 per cent. (Hata). The symp- 
toms develop only in a proportion of those bitten 
by rats. The incubation period varies from five weeks 
to two months, during which time the wound heals. 

Symptoms. The site of the bite shows inflam- 
matory changes, a process which may spread to 
surrounding tissues with formation of blebs and 
even necrotic areas ; the lymphatic glands draining 
the area are also implicated. Rigors, headache, and 
fever (103-4 F.) are present. The fever lasts gener- 
ally some three or four days and ends in crisis, after 
which the local inflammatory symptoms subside. A 
second attack of fever, associated with the same 
symptoms and in addition with a papular exanthem, 
generally occurs within a week. Further recurrences 
are common. 

In most cases the reflexes are increased. In 
severe cases, pains in the muscles and joints, hyper- 
sesthesia, and redema of various portions of the body 
are a marked feature. The end is ushered in by 
delirium often lapsing into coma. 

Certain observers have found a Gram-negative 
streptothrix in the blood, similar to one common in 
the tracheal mucus and broncho-pneumonia of rats. 

Treatment. Hata reports that in eight cases 
intravenous injections of salvarsan were followed by 
marked improvement; others claim equally good 
results from neo-salvarsan. 
319 



CHAPTER XX 
PLAGUE 

Definition. Plague is a specific, inoculable, and 
otherwise communicable epidemic disease common to 
man and many of the lower animals. It is charac- 
terized by fever, adenitis, a rapid course, a very high 
mortality, and the presence of a specific bacterium, 
Bacillus pestis, in the lymphatic glands, viscera, 
and blood. In a large proportion of cases buboes 
form in the groins, armpits, or neck. 

Geographical distribution. Though not 
necessarily confined to warm climates, in modern 
times plague, like leprosy, has practically become so. 
The hygienic conditions which advancing civilization 
has brought in its train have forced back these two 
diseases from Europe, where at one time they were 
even more prevalent than they are in their present 
tropical and sub-tropical haunts. Plague and leprosy 
are typical examples, of that large group of acute 
and chronic germ diseases whose spread depends 
on social and hygienic rather than on climatic con- 
ditions, and more especially on the verminous accom- 
paniments of filth and overcrowding : conditions 
which nowadays are found, to an extent and an 
intensity sufficient to ensure the endemic prevalence 
or epidemic extension of these diseases, for the most 
part only in warm countries. 

It is difficult to say what the pestis of the ancients 
may have been. Probably in many instances it was 
bubonic plague; doubtless the term was sometimes 
applied to other epidemic sicknesses attended with a 
large mortality. 

The descriptions which have come down to us of 
these old-world epidemics are too vague for recog- 
nition. According to Hirsch, the first recognizable 
description of what is now understood by plague 
320 



GEOGRAPHICAL DISTRIBUTION 321 

refers to its occurrence in Libya, Egypt, and Syria 
about the end of the third and the beginning of the 
second century before the Christian era. The next 
authentic account, and the first as regards Europe, 
refers to the great epidemic known as the plague of 
Justinian, which, in A.D. 542, starting from Egypt, 
spread to Europe and all over the Roman Empire, 
and which, lasting for fifty or sixty years, wrought 
the most frightful devastation wherever it reached, 
depopulating the towns and turning the country into 
a desert. From that time until 1841, when plague 
appeared for the last time in Constantinople, it 
recurred again and again in different parts of Europe, 
though latterly only in the south-eastern parts of the 
continent and in areas becoming gradually more 
circumscribed. In 1878-79 a small epidemic, which 
speedily died out, broke out in the Russian province of 
Astrakhan. With the latter exception and the limited 
epidemics at Oporto in 1899 and at Glasgow in 1901, 
and a few isolated and mostly imported cases at the 
large seaports, Europe has long enjoyed exemption 
from this worst of epidemic diseases. The plague, 
as a widespread epidemic, visited England for the 
last time in 1664-79, when, in 1664-65, upwards of 
70,000 of the 460,000 inhabitants of the London 
of that day perished. In recent years and from time 
to time cases of plague have occurred in the Port of 
London in seamen from Eastern countries, and plague- 
infected rats are by no means uncommon in the docks 
of the metropolis, but with the exception of a limited 
epizootic in rats and rabbits and several fatal cases 
in man in 1910 in Suffolk there is no record of 
plague in England, apart from the cases occasionally 
seen in the seaports, since the seventeenth century. 

Egypt, in former times a favourite haunt of the 
disease, until 1899 had been exempt since 1844, 
although several epidemics have since the latter date 
occurred in its neighbourhood in Tripoli (Benghasi) 
in 1856, in 1859, and in 1874 ; and on the Red Sea 
coast of Arabia (Assir) from 1853 to the present 
time. It is now known to be endemic in Uganda 
and in the hinterland of German East Africa. 



322 PLAGUE [CHAP. 

Many epidemics have occurred in Mesopotamia 
(last in 1892), in Turkestan (last in 1892), in 
India, in China, and in Mongolia. In India there 
were several outbreaks during the nineteenth cen- 
tury, but, with the exception of the current epi- 
demic, they were of a localized rather than of 
a general character. One, beginning in Cutch in 
1815, spread to Scinde and Gujerat, and continued 
till 1821. Epidemics have also occurred in Kumaon 
and Gharval on the southern slopes of the Hima- 
layas in 1824, 1834-37, 1846-53, 1876, and 1884; 
also at Hansi in Delhi, 1828-29. In 1836 it 
appeared at Bareilly, Rohilcund, and at Pali in 
Rajputana, spreading to Jodhpore and to Marwar, 
and continuing till 1838. Probably plague is always 
present in some part of India, especially among the 
rude hill-peoples. 

It is now known that plague has been endemic in 
the south-west of China, in the province of Yunnan, 
for many years. It is probable that the present 
extension of plague had its origin in that part of 
China. There it was seen by Rocher and others 
in 1878 and afterwards. It was particularly active 
in 1871-73, after the great Mohammedan rebel- 
lion. From Yunnan, probably following the trade 
route, it spread to Pakhoi on the Gulf of Tonquin, a 
severe epidemic occurring in 1883 in that and in 
neighbouring towns. In 1894 it had extended to 
Canton, where it killed, it is estimated, 60,000 in 
a population of 1,500,000 (?). Later in the spring 
of the same year it broke out in the British colony 
of Hong Kong, subsequently spreading to Macao, 
Swatow, Amoy, Foochow, Formosa, and probably to 
many other places in the southern provinces of the 
Chinese Empire, where, in one place after another, 
considering the wretched hygienic conditions and the 
poverty of the inhabitants, it is safe to prophesy 
that plague will continue epidemic for many years to 
come. Japan and the Philippines were both infected 
from China. 

Having probably been imported from Hong Kong, 
appeared in 1896 at Bombay, and subsequently as 



xx] ETIOLOGY 323 

a great epidemic spread to Calcutta, and to many 
other parts of India, where it still prevails. The 
mortality from the current epidemic is numbered in 
millions. 

Soon after its appearance in India, plague became 
extensively epidemic in Mauritius, where it still pre- 
vails at certain seasons. Mombasa and British East 
Africa (including Nairobi), the West African colo- 
nies, Madagascar, Delagoa Bay, Cape Town, Port 
Elizabeth in Cape Colony, and Durban ; also Sydney 
and Brisbane in Australia, and Alexandria in Egypt, 
have all been invaded. 

Until its recent appearance in Brazil, the Argen- 
tine and other South American countries, in San 
Francisco and Mexico, plague had never invaded the 
western hemisphere. 

Etiology. The micro-organism. The proofs are 
now complete that the specific cause of plague is the 
cocco- bacillus which was discovered first by Kitasato 
and afterwards, independently, by Yersin during 
the Hong Kong epidemic in 1894. This microbe 
occurs in great profusion in the characteristic buboes 
generally in pure culture, although towards the later 
stages it is often associated with the streptococci and 
staphylococci of suppuration. It is present, besides, 
in great abundance, in the spleen, intestines, lungs, 
kidneys, liver, and other viscera, and also, though in 
smaller numbers, in the blood. In the pneumonic 
type of the disease it is present in the sputum in 
enormous numbers. It occurs also in the urine and 
faeces ; in the latter, though detectable by inoculation 
and by cultivation, the bacillus may be hard to find 
by direct observation. Towards the termination of 
rapidly fatal cases it may become so abundant in the 
blood as to be readily observed there with the 
microscope. 

The plague bacterium (Fig. 66), as seen in smear- 
ings or scrapings from the pulp of the buboes, 
or from any of the inflamed lymphatic glands, or 
from the viscera, is a short, thick cocco-bacillus (1-5 
to 2 /it and 0*5 to 0'7 /*) with rounded ends, very like 
that of chicken cholera. Gordon says it has one 



324 PLAGUE [CHAP. 

terminal flagellum. A capsule, according to the 
same observer, or the appearance of a capsule, can 
generally be made out, especially in those bacilli 
which are present in the blood. The bacillus is 
readily stained by aniline dyes, the extremities 
taking on a deeper colour than the interpolar part. 
It is usually decolorized by Gram. 

Culture characters. When sown on blood serum and kept 
at body temperature, in from twenty-four to forty-eight hours 
an abundant moist, yellowish-grey growth is formed without 
liquefaction of the culture medium. On agar, but better on 




Fig. 66. Bacillus of plague in chains showing polar staining. From 
a young culture in bouillon, x 1,000. (Muir and Ritchie.) 

glycerine agar, the growths have a greyish-white appearance. 
In agar plate cultures they show a bluish translucence, the 
individual colonies being circular, with slightly irregular con- 
tours and a moist surface; on mannite neutral-red-bile-salt 
agar the colonies are bright red, but are colourless on a similar 
medium in which lactose is substituted. Litmus-milk and 
glucose-broth are rendered slightly acid, lactose-broth is un- 
changed. Young colonies are glass-like, but older colonies 
are thick at the centre and more opaque ; they are singularly 
coherent and may be removed en bloc with a platinum needle. 
Stab cultures show after one or two days a fine dust-like 
line of growth. According to Yersin, when sown on gelatin 
the bacillus gives rise to white transparent colonies which, 
when examined in reflected light, present iridescent borders. 



xx] THE VIRUS 325 

In bouillon the cultures present a characteristic appearance 
the liquid remains clear, whilst a granular deposit takes place 
on the sides and bottom of the tube. Cultivated on brothii 
which clarified butter or coco-nut oil is floated, B.pcstis presents 
characteristic stalactite growths which gradually fall off, form- 
ing a granular deposit. Examined with the microscope, these 
various cultures show chains of a short bacillus, presenting 
here and there large bulbous swellings. In gelatin the bacilli 
sometimes form fine threads, sometimes thick bundles made 
up of many laterally agglomerated bacteria. The bacillus does 
not produce spores. 

The most favourable temperature for culture is from 
36 to 39 C. 

Intensification and attenuation of virus. 

There can be no question that, both by artificial 
means and in a natural way, the virulence of the 
bacillus of plague is susceptible of modification. 
It has been remarked in Russia, in Persia, and 
in Calcutta that certain outbreaks of plague were 
preceded by a sporadic or epidemic febrile, some- 
times afebrile, affection, in the course of which 
the lymphatic glands became enlarged and perhaps 
suppurated. Cases of this nature, in which a bac- 
teriological examination proved that a cocco-bacillus 
was present in the blood and enlarged glands, are 
recorded by Drs. Cobb and Simpson. It is further 
known that in some instances the virulence and 
case-mortality of a plague epidemic show a tendency 
to decrease, the early cases being the most frequently 
and most rapidly fatal. 

Recent observations in India have brought to 
light a form of chronic plague in rats, in which the 
specific bacterium, without seriously affecting the 
health of the animal, remains latent for long periods 
in abscesses in connection with spleen, liver, or 
abdominal lymphatics. Although thus latent, it is 
potentially virulent, proving lethal when cultures 
obtained from these abscesses are injected into other 
animals. These facts seem to indicate that under 
certain unknown natural conditions the virus tends 
to acquire increased potency, whilst in other circum- 
stances its virulence tends to diminish. 

This conjecture is countenanced by the results 
of experiment on animals. It has been shown that by 



326 PLAGUE [CHAP. 

passing the virus by inoculation from one guineapig 
to another the rate of its action becomes accelerated. 
On the other hand, Yersin remarks that, although it 
is difficult to start a gelatin-peptone cultivation, 
nevertheless, when obtained, such a cultivation at 
all events certain parts of such a cultivation will be 
found to be quite as lethal as virus derived directly 
from a bubo. He further observes that in such 
cultures a proportion of the colonies develop more 
rapidly than others; that if inoculation is made 
from these more rapidly developed colonies, viru- 
lence is found to be diminished; and that if these 
rapidly growing cultures are frequently repeated, in 
the long run they cease to be fatal to guineapigs, 
although they may still prove fatal to white mice. 

These and other natural and experimental data 
indicate a very pronounced tendency to mutability as 
regards virulence on the part of the plague bacillus : a 
disposition which, in the future, may very well be 
turned to important practical account. 

It would appear that the gravity of an attack 
of plague is not affected by the amount of virus 
introduced. Barber, using an ingenious apparatus, 
infected guineapigs, each with a single bacillus. 
The resulting disease was as fatal as that produced 
by an injection of 500 bacilli. 

Experimental plague. Inoculation. Inten- 
tional and unintentional experiments have proved the 
inoculability of plague in man. Whyte in 1802 com- 
municated the disease to himself, and died of it. At 
Cairo, in 1835, two condemned criminals were ino- 
culated from the blood of plague patients; they 
contracted the disease, but recovered. The value of 
these experiments, as proving inoculability, is some- 
what depreciated by the circumstance that they were 
made in the presence of an epidemic of the disease. 
Ordinary methods of infection cannot be said, there- 
fore, to have been absolutely excluded. For the 
same reason the cases of Aoyama and his assistant, 
who were believed to have contracted the disease 
from dissection wounds, cannot be held as proving 
that plague is inoculable in man. The deplor- 



xx] INOCULATION 327 

able accident in a Vienna laboratory, in October, 
1898, by which fatal plague of a pneumonic 
type was acquired in what way is not exactly 
known from manipulations with plague cultures 
goes far to complete the little that was wanting 
in the chain of evidence that this disease is caused 
by the introduction of the specific bacillus into 
the human body. The unintentional experiment, in 
this instance at all events, was not vitiated by 
having been made in the presence of a plague 
epidemic. 

There is no reason for supposing that man differs 
in this respect from the lower animals, many of 
which are exceedingly susceptible to inoculation. 
Mice, rats, guineapigs, and rabbits are invariably 
killed if successfully inoculated from the buboes* 
of plague patients. They present on dissection 
characteristic lesions with numerous bacilli in the 
lymphatic glands, blood, spleen, and other viscera. 
Guineapigs die in from two to five days after 
inoculation, mice in from one to three days. Calves 
and swine are susceptible to inoculation, and so are 
monkeys and many other animals. 

In the case of the guineapig, within a few 
hours of the introduction of the virus a consider- 
able amount of O3dema is already apparent around 
the puncture, and the adjacent gland is perceptibly 
swollen. At the end of twenty-four hours the animal 
is very ill; its coat is rough and staring, and it 
refuses food. Presently it falls on its side and becomes 
convulsed, one fit following another with increas- 
ing frequency as death approaches. If the body 
is opened immediately after death a rosy-red san- 
guineous 03dema is found at the point of inoculation, 
with hsemorrhagic inflammatory effusions around the 
nearest lymphatic gland, which is much swollen 
and full of bacilli. The intestines are hypersemic ; 
the adrenals, kidneys, and liver are red and swollen. 
The much enlarged spleen frequently presents an 

* The pus from a bubo is not always infective. Inoculation 
made with such may fail. Apparently the bacteria of suppuration 
may kill out the Bacillus pestis. 



328 PLAGUE [CHAP. 

eruption of small whitish granulations resembling in 
appearance miliary tubercles. All the organs, and even 
any serous fluid that may be present in peritoneum 
or pleura, will be found to contain plague bacilli. 
In the blood, besides those free in the liquor san- 
guinis, bacilli are to be found in the mononuclear, 
though not, it is said, in the polynuclear leucocytes. 

Feeding experiments. Rats or mice fed on cul- 
tures of plague bacilli, or on fragments of the liver or 
spleen of animals dead of plague, acquire the disease, 
and generally die with the characteristic symptoms 
and lesions. Similarly, as has been shown by Simpson, 
pigs, calves, sheep, monkeys, hens, pigeons, turkeys, 
geese, and ducks are affected with plague when 
fed on plague material. The type of plague induced 
by feeding is the septicsemic. The disease thus in- 
duced may be either of an acute or of a chronic 
nature. When the latter, it may be ill denned and 
not easily recognized. Thus, pigs may show no 
marked signs of illness until a month after feeding 
on infective material, and then only a few days or 
hours before death. Susceptibility to plague of the 
animals of the farmyard, and the chronicity and ill- 
defined nature of the disease which not infrequently 
occurs among these animals, as well as in rats, are 
likely to be important factors in continuing the disease 
in those endemic centres where people, cattle, pigs, 
and poultry, in addition to the ordinary domestic 
vermin, are housed under the same roof, and even in 
the same room. 

Role ol the rat in plague. Although small 
and circumscribed epidemics of plague may occur 
without the intervention of the rat (Hossack), there 
can be no doubt that in most epidemics of the 
bubonic form this ubiquitous rodent plays an im- 
portant part, both in the introduction and in the 
spread of the infection. The species principally con- 
cerned are Mus decumanus and Mus norvegicus (the 
grey rat) and Mus rattus (the black rat). The 
bandicoot and musk rat are of little importance in 
these respects, although susceptible to the infection. 
In Bombay the epizootic appears first in the Mus 



xx] 



K6LE OF THE RAT 



329 



decumanus community, Mus raitus the more do- 
mestic species being subsequently attacked. Later 
the disease appears in epidemic form in man. 
(Chart 5.) 

The seasonal prevalence of bubonic plague in rats 




is marked, and is not due to a periodicity in their 
reproduction, but is connected with periods in which 
fleas are most numerous. 

The ancients were well aware of the connec- 
tion between plague and the rat. In the Bible 



330 PLAGUE [[CHAP. 

the rat is mentioned in association with the plague 
which broke out amongst the Philistines after 
they stole the Ark of the Covenant. The Greeks of 
Asia Minor worshipped a rat-killing Apollo who 
was reputed to bring and remove plague epidemics. 
Sambon describes a coin of Lucius Severus, struck at 
Pergamum in Asia Minor at the time of a great 
plague epidemic. On the obverse of the coin is the 
god of medicine, JEsculapius, having at his feet a dead 
rat and at his side a naked human figure in an attitude 
of terror or supplication. Mediaeval literature like- 
wise contains abundant proof that the association of 
rats with plague was well recognized even in the dark 
ages. Many modern observers also have remarked 
the great mortality among rats and other animals 
which generally precedes and accompanies out- 
breaks of plague in man. When writing about the 
mortality among rats during the recent Canton 
epidemic, Rennie remarks that the Chinese re- 
garded this unusual and striking occurrence as a 
sure indication of an extension of the epidemic. 
From districts of the city where the plague had 
been raging for some, time the rats entirely dis- 
appeared, whilst they kept on dying in other quarters 
to which the disease afterwards spread. The rats, 
he says, would come out of their holes, in broad 
daylight even, and tumble about in a dazed condition 
and die. In a very short time one Chinese officer 
alone collected upwards of 22,000 dead rats. 

Glen Liston states that in places in which plague 
epidemics keep recurring year after year the local 
rats acquire a considerable degree of immunity, and, 
moreover, that this immunity is transmitted here- 
ditarily. Thus in plague-free towns in India e.g. 
Madras and Dacca plague-inoculated Mus rattus 
gave a mortality of 90 to 100 per cent. ; in plague- 
stricken towns e.g. Cawnpore and Poona it was 
only 20 to 40 per cent. 

Another observation, already referred to, which 
together with the foregoing may have important bear- 
ings on the spread of plague and the yearly recurrence 
of epidemics in the same place, is to the effect that 



xx] HOLE OF THE EAT 331 

in certain rats the disease may assume a chronic form, 
the bacillus becoming more or less latent in the 
lymphatic glands, at the same time being capable of 
resuscitation into active pathogenicity. 

Rocher states that in Yunnan the mortality among 
the rats is particularly noticeable. Other animals also 
die, he says ; oxen, sheep, deer, pigs, and dogs are 
all attacked at times, the dog less severely and 
less frequently than the others. 

Pringle says that in Shurwal, Himalayas, where in 
1864 plague was epidemic, the rats quitted the various 
villages in anticipation of the advent of the disease, 
and that the people, taught by experience, on seeing 
this exodus recognized it as a warning. 

Clemow has pointed out the connection of Mon- 
golian and Siberian plague epidemics with the 
occurrence of the disease in a species of marmot, 
called tarbagan (Arctomys bobac), common and much 
hunted in these regions. This animal can harbour 
the plague bacillus in its body without apparently 
suffering any ill effects during hibernation, thus 
constituting a more or less permanent reservoir of 
the plague virus. 

Schurupoff reports the ground squirrel of the 
Caucasus (Spermophilus guttatus) as being extremely 
susceptible to plague infection, and as probably con- 
cerned in the spread of the disease in that region. 
In California the ground squirrel (Citellus beechyi), 
although it does not live near human habitations, 
infects rats that do, and thereby acts as an important 
reservoir of B. pestis. It has been ascertained that 
in this instance the flea, Hoplopsyllus anomalus, 
which infests both animals, acts as the carrier of the 
plague bacillus from one to the other, the infection 
being ultimately transmitted to man by the rat- fleas 
(see below). 

These and many similar facts observed in Bombay, 
Sydney, Cape Town, and Hong Kong with regard to 
plague in the lower animals throw important light on 
one of the ways in which the disease is spread. They, 
together with the results of the several experiments 
already alluded to, have to be reckoned with in the 



332 PLAGUE [CHAP. 

future, more than they have been in the past, in 
devising schemes of quarantine and in attempts at 
stamping out the disease in already affected localities. 
The wholesale destruction of domestic vermin should 
go hand in hand with the isolation of plague-stricken 
patients.* 

The role of the flea in plague. Yersin 
placed in the same cage healthy and plague-inoculated 
mice. The latter died first ; but later the originally 
healthy uninoculated mice also succumbed proving 
that plague is communicable either through the at- 
mosphere, by contact, or by ectozoa. 

Yersin's experiment has been successfully re- 
peated again and again, on mice, rats, guineapigs, and 
monkeys, and with many modifications. The result 
has been indisputable confirmation of Yersin's re- 
sults, and further proof that bubonic plague is not 
communicable from animal to animal by simple con- 
fact or by atmospheric convection, but that it is 
readily communicated by ectozoa, especially rat-fleas 
principally Xenopsylla cheopis f (Fig. 67) which 
act as passive intermediaries and carriers of the 
bacillus. Zirolia and others have found that Bacillus 
pestis multiplies in the stomach of the flea, retaining 
its virulence for over twenty days and being passed 

* It is stated that the handling of a rat newly dead of plague 
is fraught with danger, whereas a rat that has been dead for 
some time and is cold and stiff may be touched with impunity ; and 
it is surmised that the fleas of the newly dead rat are still in its 
fur, and quit it for the body of the manipulator, carrying on their 
probosces the bacilli of the disease, which they introduce when 
they proceed to feed on their new host. "When a rat has 
been dead for some time and the body is cold, the fleas have 
already forsaken it ; hence the impunity with which the rat 
itself may be handled, but the danger of the locality in which it 
died and where the hungry infected fleas are awaiting an oppor- 
tunity for a meal. The fact that the glands of the legs are 
usually the first to become implicated in the majority of cases 
of plague suggests that the virus is generally introduced through 
the skin of the feet or legs, which are just those parts most 
likely to be attacked by a flea picked up in walking across the 
floor of a room in which plague-stricken rats or other animals 
have died. 

f* This is the rat-flea in the tropics. Ceratophyllusfasciatus, which 
attacks men as well as rats, is the rat-flea in temperate climates. 
Plague epizootics occur in mice, but are not associated with plague 
in man. Ctenopsylla wuscitli does not readily feed on man. 



xx] R6LE OF THE FLEA 333 

out in the fseces ; so that the flea serves not only as a 
carrier, but also as a multiplier of the germs. 

Especially convincing are the experiments of the 
Indian Plague Commission,* which clearly show that 
if fleas are excluded healthy rats will not contract 
the disease, even if kept in intimate association with 
plague-infected rats. Young rats may even be suckled 
by their plague-stricken mothers and remain healthy. 
But if fleas are introduced, whether naturally or 
intentionally, into the field of experiment, plague 
at once begins to spread from rat to rat, and with 
a rapidity in proportion to the number of fleas pre- 
sent. The Commission has ^shown further that an 
epizootic of rat plague may start without contact or 
even proximity of healthy and 
infected animals. It suffices 
to transfer fleas from a plague 
animal on to a healthy animal, 
or to place the latter in a 
room in which plague rats have 
died recently and been subse- 
quently removed. The fleas 
that have left the body of the 
dead rats, remaining in the 
room, convey the germs. The 
atmosphere of the room is not 
infective ; for if the experi- Fig. 67. Xenopsyiia eheopis 
mental animal be suspended in 

an open cage a few feet above the floor, it does not 
become infected. Nor is the animal infected if placed 
on the floor, if the precaution be taken to surround the 
cage with " tangle foot " so as to keep off the fleas. But 
if it be placed on the unguarded floor, either in its cage 
or allowed to run about, or even if it be suspended two 
inches above the floor a distance not beyond the sal- 
tatory powers of the flea '-it will become infected. The 
Commission obtained practically the same results in 
experiments with guineapigs in plague-infected houses. 
It is therefore no longer open to question that the im- 
portant probably the most important agents in the 
development and perpetuation of plague epidemics are 
* Journal of Hygiene, vol. vi., No. 4, April, 1906. 




334 PLAGUE [CHAP. 

the rat, and the rat-flea, Xenopsylla cheopis, and other 
fleas, such as Ctenocephalus canis (Fig. 68), which 
is known to bite dog, man, and rat indifferently. 
This important conclusion is completely supported by 
the elaborate epidemiological observations of Ashbur- 
ton Thompson in Sydney, who has shown that the rat- 
flea theory best explains the behaviour of epidemic 
plague at all events in that city. 

The flea communicates the plague bacillus either 
on its fouled mandibles, or by regurgitation of the 
contents of its stomach during the act of sucking, or 
by provoking scratching and consequent inoculation 
of the bacilli deposited in its faeces on the skin. 

C. J. Martin's observations" on plague-infected 
fleas are of great interest. He found that a propor- 
tion of the fleas fed on 
plague-infected rats de- 
velop a peculiar patho- 
logical condition of 
stomach and j oesopha- 
gus, these organs be- 
coming blocked with 
blood-clot containing 
a pure culture of B. 
pestis. When such a 

Fig. 68. Ctenocephalus canis (female). flea feeds On a normal 

rat, part of the culture 

regurgitates and communicates infection ; at the 
same time bacilli are passed in the faeces and may 
infect through any existing abrasion. He further 
observed that the "blocked" fleas died very rapidly 
if placed in a warm, dry atmosphere, apparently of 
thirst. (Figs. 69, 70.) 

In temperate climates fleas are most numerous 
during the warmer seasons of the year; hence summer 
<ind autumn is the bubonic plague season in such 
climates. In warm climates bubonic plague is most 
prone to become epidemic at those times of the year 
in which temperature ranges between 10 and 30 C. 
temperatures favourable to the multiplication and 
activity of the flea. Temperatures over 30 C. are un- 
favourable to the flea, especially if the atmosphere is 




XX] 



ROLE OF THE FLEA 



335 



dry. Pneumonic plague, not being spread by the 
flea, is not influenced by temperature in this way 
(see p. 344).* 

Bionomics of the rat-flea. In ordinary circum- 
stances the rat-flea completes its developmental cycle 
in fourteen days to three weeks, but in warm, damp 
weather this may be shortened to ten days. The 
average life of a flea, apart from its host, is about ten 
days, but it is capable of remaining alive without 
food for two months, should the temperature of the 



CES. 



-^-p c 




a 



Fig. 69. a, Flea viewed as a transparent object. The proventriculns 
and stomach contain a mass of plague culture. &, Flea's stomach 
obstructed by growth of plague culture. 

<ES., Distended oesophagus containing fresh b'ood; P.O., obstructing mass of 
plague culture. 

air be low at the time. In tropical temperatures the 
insect can harbour the plague bacillus without feeding 
on blood for forty-five days. 

Apart from the very serious danger arising from 
vermin affected with chronic plague, which may hang 
about a bouse for a long time, it would appear that 
the house itself does not retain the infection for 
any length of time. The Plague Commission has 
shown that floors of cow-dung if contaminated with 
Bacillus pestis do not remain very infective for more 

* Though it is possible to transmit plague experimentally by 
means of the human flea, Ptilcx irritant, yet this flea plays little 
or no part in the spread of plague at the present day. 



336 PLAGUE [CHAP. 

than forty-eight hours, and that floors of chunam 
cease to be infective in twenty-four hours. 

Conditions favouring naturally acquired 
plague. The most potent circumstances which 
predispose to the epidemic outbreak of plague 
are extreme filth and overcrowding. In such 
circumstances the virus, once introduced, tends 
to spread. These conditions, however, are not 
all-sufficient, for even in the filthiest and most 
crowded oriental towns, and without any apparent 




Fig. 70. Edge of a mass of plague culture from flea's stomach. 

Microphotograph x. 1,000. 

Figs. 69 and 70 Illustrate the method of transmission of B. pestis by Cerato- 
phyllus fasciatus. (By kind permission of Dr. C. J. Martin, "Journ. of Hyg. 
3rd Plague Suppl., Jan., 1914.) 

alteration in the habits or circumstances of the 
population, the disease, after having become epi- 
demic, dies out spontaneously. It may be difficult 
to indicate the exact way or ways in which filth and 
overcrowding operate ; but certain it is, as experience 
has shown, that in good sanitary conditions plague 
does not spread even if introduced, and that in opposite 
conditions it may for a time spread like wildfire. 

Filth and overcrowding imply close proximity of 
the sick and the healthy ; an atmosphere saturated 
with the emanations of the sick ; a lowered tone of 



xx] FAVOURING CONDITIONS 337 

the general health ; saturation of the soil and of the 
surrounding media with animal refuse ; abundance 
of body vermin of all kinds, as well as of other 
vermin, such as rats and mice, which serve as multi- 
pliers of the virus ; carelessness about personal clean- 
liness, about wounds of the hands and feet, about 
clothing, and about food, dishes, and water. One 
can understand how in such circumstances the germ 
has opportunities to multiply and spread. 

Except in the case of the relatively rare pneu- 
monic form, plague, though " catching," is not nearly 
so contagious as are scarlet fever, measles, or small- 
pox. Medical men, and even nurses, in clean airy 
hospitals rarely contract the disease, provided they 
have no open wounds and do not remain too long in 
close proximity to their patients. In cities the cleanly 
districts are generally spared. This was well exem- 
plified in the recent epidemics at Canton and Hong 
Kong, where the airy, cleanly European quarters and 
the relatively clean, well-ventilated boat population 
were practically exempt, whilst the disease ran riot 
in the adjoining filthy, overcrowded native houses 
only a few yards away. 

The fact that plague can be communicated to 
the lower animals by feeding them on the tissues 
of plague patients and on cultures of the specific 
bacillus, suggests that the disease may be conveyed 
to man in food or drink. The bacillus is sometimes 
found in the intestinal contents of patients. It is also 
to be found in the uiine. Water or food contaminated 
with sewage or faecal matter may therefore be regarded 
as a possible medium of infection. Food contaminated 
by infected rats is likely also to be a source of 
danger. In the epidemic of 1902, in Hong Kong, 
plague bacilli were found in the intestinal contents 
and mucus of the mouth in about one-third of the 
plague-infected rats examined, and in the urine in 
about one-fifth of the cases (Simpson). 

The bacilli do not, as a rule, penetrate the un- 
broken epidermis, as proved by the impunity with 
which post-mortem examinations in plague cases have 
often been made ; but it seems not improbable that 



338 PLAGUE [CHAP. 

in a proportion of instances the plague germ is in- 
troduced through trifling wounds of the feet. It is 
conceivable that such germs as may be lying about 
on the ground, deposited there in the discharges of 
sick human beings or of plague-stricken animals, or 
perhaps growing there in natural culture, may be 
picked up in this way. The frequency with which 
the primary bubo, as will be pointed out, is located 
in the deep femoral glands favours this idea. One can 
understand, too, how lice, fleas, bugs, and perhaps 
flies might act as carriers of the virus from person 
to person, inserting it with their bites, or inducing 
scratching and superficial skin lesions, through 
which the virus obtains entrance.* Yersin found 
that the flies in his Hong Kong plague laboratory 
died in great numbers, their bodies being crowded 
with the specific bacillus ; he injected bouillon con- 
taining a trituration of one of these flies into a 
guineapig, and the animal presently died with all 
the signs of plague. Sablonowski, who in 1884 in 
a measure anticipated the discovery of the bacillus 
by Kitasato and Yersin, remarked that during the 
Mesopotamian epidemic of that year a certain species 
of fly appeared and disappeared concurrently with 
the plague \ he considered that this insect was an 
active agent in spreading the disease. 

That the plague bacillus does at times enter the 
body through the unbroken skin or mucous mem- 
brane is made highly probable (1) by the absence in 
the great majority of cases of human plague of 
evidence of an initial skin lesion ; (2) by the success 
of experimental feeding of animals with plague tissues 
or cultures ; (3) by the ease with which infection is 
conveyed through the air to man and other animals 
in pneumonic plague ; and (4) by the certainty with 
which rats can be infected by simply smearing a 
plague culture on the shaven skin. 

Age, sex, and occupation have very little influence 
in plague. The youngest children are susceptible ; 

* The origin of the epidemic of plague at Saraitschikow, in the 
Ural Province, Russia, in which 415 persons lost their lives, may 
be accounted for in this way. A rich Cossack died, presumably 
of plague. After his funeral his clothes were distributed. 



xx] EPIDEMIOLOGY 339 

old age seems to be to a certain extent protective, the 
disease being rarer after 50 than during adolescence. 
Women, doubtless on account of their remaining 
much indoors in the tainted surroundings, are re- 
latively more frequently attacked than men. 

Geological constitution of soil appears to have no 
direct influence on plague. 

Atmospheric temperatures if very high or very 
low seem to have a repressing effect. Thus, as a 
rule, epidemics in Egypt and Mesopotamia declined 
during the height of the very hot and dry summer, 
and in Europe during the extreme cold of winter. 
On the other hand, plague on more than one occa- 
sion has flourished during a Russian winter, and 
also, as in Hong Kong recently, during the heat of a 
tropical summer. On the whole, the evidence points 
to moderate temperatures 50 to 80 F. combined 
with a certain degree of dampness as being the 
principal atmospheric condition favouring epidemic 
outbreaks and recurrences. Manifestly any influence 
temperature may have is only an indirect one. 

In large towns, and in some districts, in which 
plague recurs for several years in succession, there is 
a seasonal periodicity (which may not be the same in 
all places) of maximum and minimum prevalence. 

Elevation, as regards sea-level, does not directly 
affect the general distribution of the disease. In- 
deed, mountain tribes, probably on account of their 
poverty and squalor, are peculiarly liable to epidemics. 
In houses the ground floor is more dangerous than 
are the upper storeys. 

The duration of epidemics of plague is very 
variable. In large cities Bombay, Hong Kong, 
Canton, for example when fairly established the 
disease may not relax its grip for ten or more years. 
In smaller places it may disappear in a few months. 

The extension of plague epidemics is peculiar, 
and in many respects resembles that of cholera. 
It follows trade routes. Sometimes it may spread 
rapidly from point to point ; more generally it creeps 
slowly from one village to another, from one street 
or one house to another, Sometimes it skips a house, 



340 PLAGUE [CHAP. 

a village, or a district, to appear there later on. 
Particular houses, and even particular floors of 
houses, may be infected, whilst neighbouring ones 
remain free from the disease. 

These and many other facts in the epidemiology 
of plague are probably to be explained by the con- 
nection of the disease with the rat - flea. When 
we have fuller information about the migrations 
of the rat, the breeding seasons of the rat-flea, 
the influence of food and temperature and other 
circumstances on these animals, it is reasonable to 
expect that our knowledge of the principles that 
underlie the transmission, the spread, and decline 
of plague will be more satisfactory than it is at 
present. 

Symptoms. Incubation period. Symptoms of 
plague begin to show themselves after an incubation 
period of from two to eight days. It is said that 
in certain very rare instances the incubation period 
may extend to as much as fifteen days. It is also 
said that in highly malignant epidemics the disease 
may declare itself within three or four hours from 
the time of exposure to infection. 

Prodromal stage. In a certain but small pro* 
portion of cases there is a prodromal stage charac- 
terized by physical and mental depression, anorexia, 
aching of the limbs, feelings of chilliness, giddiness, 
palpitations, and sometimes dull pains in the groin 
at the seat of the future bubo. 

Stage of invasion. Usually, the disease sets in 
somewhat suddenly with fever, extreme lassitude, 
frontal or, more rarely, occipital headache, aching 
of the limbs, vertigo, drowsiness or perhaps wake- 
fulness, or troubled dreams. Rigor is rarely a 
marked feature ; more often the disease is heralded 
by feelings of chilliness. The face quickly acquires 
a peculiar expression, the features being drawn and 
haggard, the eyes bloodshot, sunken and staring, the 
pupils probably dilated ; sometimes the face wears 
an expression of fear or horror. The patient, when 
he can walk, drags himself about in a dreamy sort of 
way, or he staggers like a drunken man. There may 



xx] SYMPTOMS 341 

be nausea and vomiting ; in some instances there is 
diarrhoea. 

Stage of fever. The stage of invasion may last 
for a day or two without a serious rise . of tem- 
perature occurring. Usually it is of much shorter 
duration ; or it may be altogether wanting, the 
disease developing abruptly without definite rigor or 
other warning, the thermometer rising rapidly to 
103 or 104, or even to 107 R, with a correspond- 
ing acceleration of pulse and respiration. The rise of 
temperature is more gradual than is usual in malarial 
fevers. The skin is now dry and burning, the face is 
bloated, the eyes are still more injected, sunken and 
fixed, the hearing is dulled. The tongue is swollen 
and covered with a creamy fur, which rapidly dries 
and becomes brown or almost black ; sordes form on 
the teeth and about the lips and nostrils. Thirst is 
intense, prostration extreme, the patient from utter 
weakness being hardly able to make himself heard. 
Sometimes the patient becomes delirious ; more 
generally he sinks into a state of typhoid stupor and 
prostration, perhaps picking the bedclothes or trying 
to catch imaginary objects. The delirium is some- 
times wildly furious, sometimes fatuous, sometimes 
of a low muttering type. Coma, convulsions some- 
times of a tetanic character retention of urine, 
subsultus tendinum, and other nervous phenomena 
may occur. Vomiting is in certain cases very fre- 
quent : some are constipated, others have diarrhoea. 
The spleen and liver are usually both enlarged. 
Urine is scanty, but rarely contains more than a trace 
of albumin. The pulse, at first full and bounding, 
in the majority of cases rapidly loses tone, becoming 
small, frequent, fluttering, dicrotic, intermittent. In 
the later stages the heart may be dilated, the first 
sound being feeble or absent. In many cases, as 
death approaches, there may be some cyanosis. 

Stage of adenitis. In from about two-thirds to 
nine-tenths of the cases, some time between the first 
few hours and the fifth day, generally within twenty- 
four hours, the characteristic bubo or buboes develop. 
Usually (in 70 per cent.) the bubo forms in the groin, 



342 PLAGUE [CHAP. 

most frequently on the right side, affecting one or 
more of the femoral glands; less frequently (20 per 
cent.) it is the axillary glands, and still more rarely 
(10 per. cent.), and most commonly in children, it is 
the glands at the angle of the lower jaw that are 
affected. The buboes are usually single ; in about 
one-eighth of the cases, however, they form simul- 
taneously on both sides of the body. Very rarely are 
buboes formed in the popliteal or in the epitrochlear 
elbow glands, or in those at the root of the neck. 
Occasionally buboes occur simultaneously in different 
parts of the body. 

The buboes vary considerably in size. In some 
instances they are not so large as a walnut ; in others 
they attain the size of a goose's egg. Pain is often 
very severe ; on the other hand, it is sometimes hardly 
complained of. Besides the enlargement of the gland, 
there is in most instances distinct infiltration of the 
surrounding connective tissue. 

In a very small proportion of cases what are 
usually described as carbuncles, but which are in 
reality small patches of moist gangrenous skin that 
may gradually involve a large area, develop on 
different parts of the integument. These occur either 
in the early stage or late in the disease. Sometimes 
they slough and lead to extensive gangrene. 

In favourable cases, sooner or later, after or 
without the appearance of the bubo, the constitutional 
symptoms abate with the setting in of profuse per- 
spiration. The tongue now begins to moisten, the 
pulse-rate and temperature to fall, and the mild 
delirium, if it has been present, to abate. The bubo, 
however, continues to enlarge and to soften. After a 
few days, if not incised, it bursts and discharges pus 
and sloughs sometimes very ill-smelling. In rare 
instances suppuration is delayed for weeks ; whilst in 
some the bubo subsides after a few weeks, or perhaps 
months, without having broken down. Convales- 
cence, when it occurs, sets in some time between the 
sixth and tenth day, although it may be delayed for 
a fortnight or three weeks. Occasionally a pysemic 
condition, with boils, abscesses, cellulitis, parotitis, or 



xx] SYMPTOMS 343 

secondary adenitis, succeeds the primary fever. The 
sores left by the buboes and abscesses of plague are 
extremely indolent, and may take months to heal. 

Haemorrhages of different kinds are not an un- 
usual feature of plague. Ecchymotic effusions of a 
purplish or dull-red tint, and varying in size from 
a hemp-seed to spots half an inch in diameter, are 
very often found scattered in greater or less profusion 
over the skin, especially on exposed parts of the body 
and at the sites of insect bites or of wounds. Larger 
patches of cutaneous haemorrhagic effusion are rare. 
There may be bleeding from the nose, mouth, lungs, 
stomach, bowel, or kidneys. Haemorrhages occur with 
marked frequency in certain epidemics ; they are 
regarded as evidence of great malignity. Especially 
malignant are those epidemics in which haemoptysis, 
or pneumonia, is a common occurrence. 

Abortion almost invariably occurs in pregnant 
svomen ; the foetus sometimes shows signs of the 
disease. 

Death may take place at any time in the course 
of plague. Usually it occurs between the third and 
fifth day, with symptoms of profound adynamia, 
heart failure, or perhaps from convulsions, from coma, 
from internal haemorrhage, or, later, from exhaustion 
consequent upon prolonged fever or suppuration, or 
from secondary haemorrhages. 

On the other hand, in a certain proportion of 
cases convalescence sets in and proceeds more or 
less rapidly. Generally it is a tedious affair, being 
prolonged by suppuration, sloughing, and similar 
complications. 

The foregoing description applies more especially 
to the ordinary bubonic (as it is called) type of the 
disease. Of late, certain other forms of plague have 
received individual recognition in consequence of 
their extreme virulence and, in the case of one of 
these forms, of its high degree of coimnunicability. 
These forms are called respectively septiccemic and 
pneumonic. 

Scpticaemic plague, sometimes called pestis 
si derails. In this type there is no special enlarge- 



344 PLAGUE [CHAP. 

ment of the lymphatic glands apparent during life, 
although after death the glands throughout the body 
are found to be somewhat enlarged and congested. 
The high degree of virulence and rapid course of 
the disease depend on the entry of large numbers 
of the bacilli into the blood, where they can be 
readily found during life. The patient is prostrated 
from the outset ; he is pale and apathetic ; there is 
no, or very little, febrile reaction (100 F.). Great 
weakness, delirium, picking of the bedclothes, stupor, 
and coma end in death on the first, second, or 
third day. Frequently in these cases there are 
haemorrhages. 

Pneumonic plague. This type of the disease, 
which was carefully studied by Childe and others, 
is especially dangerous as well as deadly : dangerous 
because of the multitude of bacilli which are scattered 
about in the patient's expectoration,* and because the 
clinical symptoms are unlike those of typical plague, 
and are apt to be mistaken for some ordinary form 
of lung disease. The illness commences with rigor, 
malaise, intense headache, vomiting, general pains, 
fever, and intense prostration. Cough and dyspnoea 
set in, accompanied by a profuse watery blood-tinged 
sputum. The sputum is not viscid and rusty, as in 

* During the epidemic of pneumonic plague in Manchuria from 
October, 1910, to March, 1911, R. P. Strong and Teague exposed 
82 agar plates at distances varying from 5 cm. to 2 metres in 
front of the faces of plague patients for a period of two minutes. 
In 39 instances the patient did not cough, and only 1 of the plates 
yielded plague bacilli. In 35 instances the patient coughed ; the 
corresponding plates yielded plague cultures in 15 instances, the 
growths having originated in the invisible spray. 

The vitality of the plague bacillus outside the body depends 
in great measure on the rate of evaporation, that is to say, on the 
temperature and hygrometric conditions of the air. Thus in 
Harbin the bacillus retained its vitality for long periods when the 
thermometer stood at 9 C. and the water deficit equalled about 
0*3 mm. of mercury. In India, where evaporation goes on much 
more rapidly at temperatures perhaps of 30 C. and water deficit 
of 9'5 mm. of mercury, pneumonic plague is much rarer, amount- 
ing to only 3 per cent, of the total cases. In Manchuria there 
were only two or three cases of bubonic plague in a total of some 
50,000 deaths. 

The initial case of this epidemic is said to have been that of a 
tarbagan hunter, who contracted his infection in skinning one of 
these animals. Domestic animals, donkeys and dogs were attacked 
during the epidemic and contributed to its spread. 



ixj MORTALITY 345 

ordinary pneumonia. Moist rales are audible at the 
bases of the lungs, the breathing becomes hurried, 
other symptoms rapidly become worse, delirium sets 
in, and the patient dies on the fourth or fifth day. 
This is the most fatal as well as the most infectious 
form of plague. 

Abortive or larval plague (pestis minor, 
pestis anibulans). Certain epidemics are dis- 
tinguished by the large proportion of mild cases. In 
such, buboes form and suppurate or resolve, the asso- 
ciated constitutional symptoms being comparatively 
mild, or perhaps altogether wanting. In every epidemic 
there may be cases in which the patient is able to be 
about, having little if any fever, and apparently being 
little inconvenienced by the disease. Such cases, 
however, may collapse suddenly. 

Epidemics of bubo with little or no constitu- 
tional symptoms, which precede and follow true 
plague, sometimes occur. The cases forming this 
group are of great importance in their bearing on 
the spread and prevention of the graver form of 
the disease. 

Relapses, though rare, do occur, and are dan- 
gerous. 

Mortality. The case- mortality of bubonic plague 
varies in different epidemics. It is usually greatest 
at the beginning and height of the epidemic. Disre- 
garding those mild epidemics just alluded to, the 
death-rate may be anything from 60 to 95 per cent, 
of those attacked. Much appears to depend on the 
social condition of the patient and the attention and 
nursing available. Thus in a recent Hong Kong epi- 
demic, whilst the case-mortality among the indifferently 
fed, overcrowded, unwashed, and almost unnursed 
Chinese amounted to 934 per cent., it was only 77 
per cent, among the Indians, 60 per cent, among the 
Japanese, and 18 '2 per cent, among the Europeans, 
a gradation in general correspondence with the social 
and hygienic conditions of these different nationalities. 
In the South American epidemics and in the recent 
circumscribed epidemics in Europe the mortality was 
only about one-third of that obtaining in India and 



34:6 PLAGUE [CHAP. 

China. Pneumonic plague is invariably fatal in from 
three to four days. 

Pathological anatomy and pathology* 

After death from plague the surface of the body 
very frequently presents numerous ecchymotic spots 
or patches. The number and extent of these vary 
apparently, in different epidemics. Sometimes as 
in the Hong Kong epidemic of 1894 they are 
few and trifling, having their origin, as mentioned, 
principally in insect bites. In other epidemics, ac- 
cording to their historians, the cutaneous haemorrhages 
have been both extensive and numerous ; hence the 
name " black death " formerly applied to this disease. 
The characteristic buboes are generally apparent ; 
occasionally there are also furuncles, pustules, and 
abscesses. Rigor mortis is usually moderate ; some- 
times post-mortem muscular contractions, like those of 
cholera, take place. Post-mortem rise of temperature is 
often observed. Decomposition is said to set in early. 

The characteristic appearance in a necropsy of 
plague is that of engorgement and haemorrhage, nearly 
every organ of the body participating more or less. 
There is also parenchymatous degeneration in most of 
the organs. The brain, spinal cord, and their menin- 
ges are markedly congested, and there may be an 
increase of subarachnoid and ventricular fluid. There 
are numerous and pronounced puncta cruenta on the 
brain sections ; occasionally there may be considerable 
extravasations of blood into the substance of the 
brain (mesocephalon and medulla oblongata). 

Ecchymoses are common in all serous surfaces ; 
the contents of the different serous cavities may be 
sanguineous. Extensive haemorrhages are occasionally 
found in the peritoneum, mediastinum, trachea, bowel, 
pelvis of kidney, ureter, bladder, or in the pleural 
cavities. The lung frequently shows evidences of 
bronchitis and hypostatic pneumonia; sometimes 
haemorrhagic infarcts and abscesses are found. The 
right side of the heart and the great veins are usually 
distended with feebly coagulated or fluid blood. In 
pneumonic plague the superficial lymphatic glands 
are not enlarged ; the pleural cavities contain blood- 



xx] PATHOLOGY 347 

stained serum ; the infected lungs are deeply congested 
and oedematous, and at a later stage pneumonic 
consolidation is found. The bronchi contain blood 
stained serum and the bronchial glands are swollen 
and hsemorrhagic. 

The liver is congested and swollen, and its cells 
are degenerated. The spleen is enlarged to two or 
three times its normal size. The mucosa of the ali- 
mentary canal as a whole is congested, showing here 
and there punctate ecchymotic effusions and, occa- 
sionally, haemorrhagic erosions, and even especially 
about the ileo-csecal valve ulcerations. 

Similarly the kidneys are congested, and may 
exhibit ecchymoses both on the surface and in the 
pelvis. The perirenal connective tissue also may be 
congested and infiltrated. The ureters and the mucous 
surface of the bladder are often found to be sprinkled 
with ecchymoses, in which cases the contained urine 
is generally bloody. 

Evidence is invariably discoverable of serious 
implication of the lymphatic system. One, two, or 
many of the lymphatic glands are inflamed and 
swollen. Both in and around the glands there is 
much exudation with hsemorrhagic effusion, hyper- 
plasia of the gland cells, and an enormous multipli- 
cation of bacteria. The glands of the groin, of the 
armpit, and of the neck are particularly affected. On 
dissection the superficial buboes are very often found 
to be connected with extensive, deep-seated adenitis 
extending either through the crural ring or down the 
neck, and involving the pelvic, the abdominal, or the 
mediastinal glands, as the case may be. Section of 
the affected glands will reveal any stage of inflamma- 
tion from cellular hyperplasia to suppurative soften- 
ing, according to the period of the disease at which 
death has occurred. In whatever stage death has 
taken place, there is always evidence of intense 
hyperaemia in, as well as around, these glands a 
hypersemia which is specially characterized by a 
marked tendency to hsemorrhagic effusion. In the 
earlier stages of the adenitis the specific bacillus is 
found in the lymph spaces around the follicles ; later, 



348 PLAGUE [CHAP. 

it is found in the follicles themselves, in the lymph 
spaces, and in the medullary cords (Aoyama). 

If death has taken place at a very early stage of 
the disease, the swelling of the lymphatic glands may 
not be so evident ; but it is rare not to find some 
gland or glands characteristically affected. In those 
septicsemic and pneumonic cases in which the bubo is 
absent nearly all the lymphatic glands of the body 
are slightly enlarged, pink or dark red in colour. 
Sometimes the lymphatic trunks are also markedly 
implicated. 

Diagnosis. The occurrence of fever and aden- 
itis during a plague epidemic must invariably be 
viewed with suspicion, and particularly if the fever 
rapidly assumes an adynamic character. In the 
early stages diagnosis may be very doubtful, espe- 
cially in pneumonic plague, and in countries of high 
filarial endemicity and in which filarial adenitis is 
necessarily a common occurrence. The discovery of 
the bacillus in the glands, blood, sputum, or discharges 
is the only thoroughly reliable test. A small quan- 
tity of the suspected material should be spread on a 
slide, dried, fixed, and stained with an aniline dye. 
Should a cocco-bacillus be found with the character- 
istic bipolar staining, it should be cultivated by 
Haffkine's method in broth on which clarified butter 
(ghee) or coco-nut oil is floated. From the under- 
surface of the oil, if the bacillus be that of plague, 
stalactite-like growths of bacilli will form. When 
disturbed, the stalactite growths break off and fall 
in snow-like flakes to the bottom of the vessel. No 
other known bacillus behaves in this way. (See p. 325.) 
In case of doubt, animal inoculation should be had 
recourse to : a little of the virus from the patient or a 
culture is rubbed into a shaven area (1 in. square) on 
the abdomen of a white rat or a guineapig. B. pestis 
inoculated in this way kills the guineapig in seven 
days, the rat sooner.* 

* Post-mortem indications of plague in the rat. Before rats 
suspected of being plague-infected are handled, they should be 
immersed in disinfectant to destroy ectoparasites. 

The lymphatic glands should be first exposed. If the rat is 
infected, subcutaneous injection around the glands is generally 



xx] QUAKANTINE 349 

General prophylaxis. The prophylaxis of 
plague, as of other infectious diseases, has to be con- 
sidered from the standpoint of the community and also 
from that of the individual. As regards the former, 
it includes measures for preventing the introduction 
of the virus, for staying its spread if introduced, and 
for securing its destruction. 

Quarantine. Modern systems of land or sea 
quarantine directed against plague take cognizance 
of the facts that the incubation period of the disease 
may extend to ten days, and that plague affects 
certain of the lower animals as well as man. Ten 
days is the minimum period that should elapse 
between the time of departure from an infected 
place, between the date of the last death, or between 
the arrival of a ship or batch of travellers with cases 
of plague in progress among them, and the granting 
of free pratique. Moreover, as Kitasato has shown 
that the specific bacillus persists in the bodies of 
those who have recovered from plague for at least 
three weeks from the cessation of the active disease, 
convalescents should be isolated for a month before 
they are allowed to mingle with an uninfected com- 
munity. 

Although Kitasato has stated that the plague 
bacillus perishes in four days when dried on cover- 
glasses and protected from sunlight, and in from 
three to four hours when exposed to sunlight, ex- 
perience has shown that under certain conditions, as 
yet unknown, it will survive outside the body for a 
very much longer period.* There is a. considerable 
mass of evidence tending to show that clothes, skins, 

recognizable. If the gland is itself inflamed it is almost diagnostic 
of plague ; in which case the liver will be found of a yellow colour 
and sprinkled with innumerable pinky-white granules. The 
spleen is enlarged, congested, and occasionally granular. Serous or 
blood-stained serous effusions are present in 72 per cent, of such 
rats. If on microscopical examination of scrapings from glands 
or spleen bipolar -staining bacilli are detected the case is probably 
plague. Too great stress must not be laid on bipolar staining, 
as this feature depends somewhat on the method of staining ; it- 
is best demonstrated by Leishman or eosin-azur stain. 

* Schurupoff found seven-year-old cultures of B. pestis to be 
still alive. He examined 17 plague corpses a year after death; 
from 6 of them he recovered the plague bacillus. 



350 PLAGUE [CHAP. 

textile fabrics, and other similar materials may 
preserve the virus in an active state for several 
months. Such articles, therefore, coming from an 
infected district, more especially if there is any 
suspicion that they have been soiled by or have 
been in proximity to plague patients, should be 
destroyed or thoroughly disinfected. 

In ships coming from an infected port the rats, 
mice, and such-like vermin should be destroyed, 
thrown overboard, and sunk before harbour is 
entered. The generation of sulphurous acid gas 
under pressure, especially the Clayton system, has 
been found useful for this purpose. 

Kitasato found that bouillon cultures of the 
bacillus were killed in half an hour by a temperature 
of 80 C., and in a few minutes by steam at 100 C. 
Growth of the bacillus did not occur in cultures 
after exposure for one hour to a 1-per-cent. solu- 
tion of carbolic acid. The bacilli are also killed 
by a three-hours' exposure to milk of lime. These 
facts serve as a guide to suitable disinfectants, of 
which the best and most practicable are steam, 1-in- 
1,000 corrosive sublimate in carbol-sulphuric acid, 
lysol, chloride of lime in 1-per-cent. solution, carbolic 
acid in 5-per-cent., formalin 2-per-cent. 

On plague breaking out in a small -village com- 
munity, so soon as the disease is recognized measures 
should be taken to prevent the inhabitants leaving 
the locality and in this way spreading the disease. 
There is little danger of this until the inhabitants 
become alarmed by a rapid extension of the 
disease. If possible, after the patients have been 
isolated in a special hospital, the village should be 
evacuated for a month, the inhabitants being accom- 
modated in temporary huts close by, while the 
houses which the patients have occupied and those 
in their neighbourhood should be disinfected. The 
safest and most thorough form of disinfection is by 
fire, and in the case of an isolated village prompt 
destruction of the infected houses by fire is the surest 
method of stamping out the infection. The clothes 
and bedding of all patients should be burned. The 



xx] PEOPHYLAXIS 351 

dead, with as little delay as possible, should be 
buried in deep graves or cremated. Isolated obser- 
vation camps should be organized, in which " sus- 
pects " and " contacts " may be segregated for a 
time equal at least to the incubation period of 
the disease. Rats and mice should be poisoned 
or otherwise destroyed, and their bodies burned. 
Besides such special measures, general sanitation 
should be scrupulously carried out. The diffusion 
of plague by railways must be carefully guarded 
against. 

In the event of an outbreak in a town, it must 
be borne in mind first, that there is an intimate 
connection between rat plague and human plague ; 
second, that rat plague is conveyed to human beings, 
and, once established in human beings, is com- 
municable to others and to rats by means of the 
expectoration, by the discharges from the bowels 
and by the urine, and by discharges from the 
buboes or glandular swellings; and third, that a 
plague in rats usually precedes plague in human 
beings. It is as important to know in what houses, 
areas, and quarters of the town the rats are infected 
as it is to know in which of these there are plague 
patients. In addition, therefore, to prompt notifica- 
tion of plague patients, a system designed to ob- 
tain information as to the occurrence of plague in 
rats should be instituted. It is not sufficient to 
carry on a general campaign against rats, and to 
burn all rats which have been poisoned or caught 
in traps, but it is necessary also daily to examine 
bacteriologically every rat so destroyed, in order to 
determine whether it is healthy or infected, and so to 
differentiate the healthy from the infected parts of 
the town. A ticket on the rat, giving the address 
from which it was brought, locates the street and 
house, and permits of action being taken at once. A 
house in which a plague rat is found is a plague- 
infected house, and if plague among the inmates is 
to be prevented the necessary preventive measures 
should be taken at once. These measures consist 
in the evacuation of the house until it has been 



352 PLAGUE [CHAP. 

disinfected and rendered rat-proof, and the disinfec- 
tion of the clothes and belongings of the inmates. 

For the detection of plague-infected houses, guinea- 
pigs, which do not harbour fleas as a rule, are now 
employed in Japan and India as convenient traps for 
rat-fleas. The guineapigs are turned loose in houses 
and warehouses, and rapidly succumb to the disease if 
plague fleas are present. 

In India the compulsory inspection of all dead 
bodies prior to burial has been found a valuable 
measure for discovering infected houses and localities. 

In all efforts to control the introduction and 
spread of plague, cases of pestis ambulans must be 
sought out and treated with as much respect as the 
more virulent forms of the disease. 

It is very questionable if in practice any system 
of rigid quarantine, no matter how carefully devised 
and theoretically perfect, is ever absolutely protective. 
Its working is necessarily at the mercy of a large 
number of individuals, any one of whom, either from 
incompetence or from dishonesty, may permit its 
regulations to be broken through. Even if the 
introduction of plague by man could be prevented 
in this way, it is difficult to see how its introduction 
by rats or mice could be effectually guarded against. 
Quarantine may, and doubtless does, keep out a pro- 
portion of the infected, and to this extent it does 
some good ; but it must be combined with careful 
general sanitation, with thorough disinfection, with the 
destruction of all discharges and fomites, with the 
speedy discovery and isolation of the sick, with 
the evacuation of infected houses and even of neigh- 
bourhoods, and with the wholesale destruction of 
vermin. These latter things English experience has 
shown to be far more effective than any system of 
quarantine ; it was only in deference to Continental 
views that quarantine, in the ancient sense of the 
word, was practised in Great Britain against plague 
and yellow fever. A rational quarantine plus rational 
sanitary measures is what is wanted. 

Destruction of vermin and other measures in 
anticipation of the introduction of plague virus. 



xx] PROPHYLAXIS 363 

Considering the well-established facts that rats are 
specially susceptible to plague, that in many epidemics 
they have been attacked weeks before, the disease has 
shown itself in man, that their habits bring them into 
intimate association with man, there can be no doubt 
that these rodents play a very important part in the 
diffusion of the introduced virus. This being the 
case, it is reasonable to believe that if the rats were 
destroyed the risk from the introduction of a case of 
plague, whether by man, rat, or fomites, would be 
very much reduced in any community in which this 
measure had been carried out. The responsible 
authorities of all towns and villages in active com- 
munication with plague centres should, in antici- 
pation of the possible advent of the infection, see 
to the destruction of all rats in their districts, and 
this in addition to instituting the ordinary measures 
for dealing with overcrowding, food and water supply, 
domestic and municipal cleanliness. The destruction 
of rats is a cheap measure in comparison with 
those adopted in India and elsewhere, which have 
so signally failed to arrest epidemic plague. The 
campaign against rats is usually carried on by the 
employment of rat-traps and rat-catchers, and the lay- 
ing down, under precautionary conditions, of poisons 
such as arsenic and phosphorus. As no one method 
is satisfactory, it is usual to employ several at the 
same time. The pumping of SO 2 gas under pressure is 
useful for ships full of cargo and for warehouses with 
goods in them. So long as the sulphurous acid gas is 
dry, and is not used on damp articles, no damage is 
done to merchandise. Care has, however, to be taken 
with damp things, as they may get slightly discoloured. 
Where possible houses and warehouses should be 
made rat-proof, not an easy measure considering the 
burrowing and climbing habits of the rat. Mus 
decumanus can penetrate ordinary lime mortar or 
soft brick, but is stopped by cement and concrete. 
Its burrows may attain a depth of 18 in. Mus rattus 
is not so active in this respect. Simpson re-commends 
that walls should be at least 6 in. thick when made of 
hard brick or concrete, and that they should extend 



354 PLAGUE [CHAP. 

to not less than 18 in. below the level of the ground 
floor, and that the latter should be made of concrete 
3 in. thick, covered with J in. of cement. All venti- 
lators should be protected with iron gratings, and all 
openings around wires and pipes cemented. The moor- 
ing cables of ships should be shielded in such a way as 
to prevent egress or ingress of rats, and all gangways 
should be taken up at night or when not in use. 

Attempts have been made to set up an epidemic 
among the rats which should not be communicable 
to man. For this purpose the bacillus discovered 
by Danysz was recommended by him. But the 
method employed viz. inoculating a few rats with 
the bacillus and then allowing them to escape, in the 
hope that when they sickened they would be eaten 
by other rats, which would in their turn be taken 
ill, and an epidemic be thus set up has not been 
successful. Experiments on these lines have failed. 
The Danysz bacillus was, however, found to be use- 
ful in Cape Town and elsewhere for the destruction 
of rats when a system introduced by Professor 
Simpson was adopted, and bread soaked in the cul- 
tures was distributed and laid down in the same way 
as is usually done with biscuits on which rat poison 
is spread. By distributing thousands of doses an 
excellent result was obtained, and rats which were 
examined in the localities where the Danysz bacillus 
had been used in this way were found to have died 
from the disease induced by this organism. Rats 
which had migrated were also found to have died of 
the same cause in localities other than those in which 
the cultures were placed. An important point in the 
success attending these operations was found by Dr. 
R. W. Dodgson to be the raising and maintenance 
of the virulence of the cultures. Those sent out from 
the Pasteur laboratory after a fortnight's voyage were 
found to be useless, and consequently required to be 
exalted in virulence by a series of passages through 
healthy rats.* 

* Danysz's bacillus rapidly loses its virulence when grown on 
the ordinary culture media, but retains it if grown on egg- 
albumin media, killing rats in from seven to nine days. 



xx] PROPHYLAXIS 355 

Personal prophylaxis. As regards the indi- 
vidual, all unnecessary visits either to plague patients 
or to plague neighbourhoods should be avoided and, 
if possible, prevented. The attendants on the sick 
ought especially to take care that the ventilation of 
the sick-room is thorough, that cubic space is abun- 
dant, and that the utmost cleanliness is practised. 
Nurses must not hang over patients unnecessarily ; 
they must also be careful to seal up and cover any 
wounds, no matter how trifling, they may have on 
their hands ; they must go into the open air frequently, 
and not remain in the wards too many hours at a 
stretch ; they must employ disinfectants freely on 
themselves and on the excreta of their patients, 
and use a disinfectant mouth-wash from time to 
time ; they must be careful to wash hands and face 
before eating, and they must never partake of food 
or drink in the ward or sick-room. By carefully 
observing these common-sense precautions, the risk 
in nursing plague patients is very much reduced, 
and is certainly very much less than that attending 
the nursing of cases of typhus or diphtheria. To 
obviate risk from wounds and to prevent the access 
of fleas and similar suctorial insects, those engaged 
on plague duties should wear boots and have the legs 
protected by trousers tied tightly round the ankles 
or, better, by putties. Leather gloves are advisable 
if there is much handling of furniture or of anything 
likely to abrade the skin. Hospital work is only 
dangerous when patients are allowed to lie in their 
dirty flea-, louse-, or bug-infested clothing, when disin- 
fectants are not properly used, and when attendants 
are careless, stupid, or rash, or where the wards, in 
the matter of light and ventilation, are by their con- 
struction ill adapted for plague cases, and where a 
number of pneumonic cases are crowded into a single 
apartment. Cats or dogs should not be allowed near 
plague patients. 

The attendants on pneumonic cases should provide 
themselves with masks of muslin, three or four fold, 
and changed when at all damp, and also with goggles 
to protect the eyes. In Mukden .a mask of absorbent 



356 PLAGUE [CHAP. 

cotton-wool (16 by 12 cm.) enclosed in muslin, and 
retained in position by a many-tailed gauze bandage, 
together with goggles, rubber gloves, and cotton 
uniform, proved thoroughly effective. 

Haffkine's inoculations. Early in the Bombay 
epidemic Haffkine introduced a system of prophy- 
lactic inoculation which is of proved value, both 
in reducing the number attacked with plague to 
the extent of from 77 to 85 per cent., and also in 
diminishing the mortality in those attacked by 80 
per cent.* 

It consists essentially in the subcutaneous injec- 
tion of six-weeks-old cultures of plague bacilli incu- 
bated at 25-30 C. and killed by heat 65 C. for 
one hour ; carbolic acid, 0'5 per cent., is then added. 
The reaction is at times severe, but until quite re- 
cently no grave accident had occurred. The figures 
are not so favourable for Mauritius, where inocula- 
tions reduced the plague incidence to. the extent of 
45 per cent, only, and the mortality in those inocu- 
lated to 32-9 per cent. The Indian Plague Com- 
mission reports strongly in favour of these inocula- 
tions. All plague laboratory workers and all who 
are likely to be exposed to plague infection should 
receive them. The protection they confer lasts about 
twenty months. In the report of the Bombay Bac- 
teriological Laboratory, 1911, Glen Liston states 
that in the inoculated the incidence of plague was 
8 per 1,000 of the population concerned, whereas 
it was 34 per 1,000 in the uninoculated in the same 
communities; the case-mortality in the inoculated 
was 39-5 per 1,000 attacked, in the uninoculated 
78 per 1,000. The best results were obtained from 
a two-months' growth which had been stored about 
eighteen months. The prophylactic needs great care 
in its preparation. Its storage in hermetically sealed 
bottles should be insisted upon, and every bottle ought 
to be tested before use. 

Lustig^s injectiods. Lustig and Galcotti have 
introduced a method of preventive inoculation which 

For a description of Haffkine's methods see Brit. Med- 
., June 12th, 1897. 



xx] TKEATMENT 357 

apparently obviates many of the drawbacks of Haff- 
kine's. They dissolve agar-agar plate cultures of 
Bacillus pestis in 1-per-cent. solution of caustic potash, 
precipitate the nucleo-proteins so dissolved by weak 
acetic or hydrochloric acid, collect the precipitate, 
wash and dry it in vacua. This substance, appar- 
ently, can be kept for an indefinite time. The dose 
for a man is about 3 mg. Before injecting it sub- 
cutaneously, it is dissolved in a convenient quantity 
of 0'5-per-cent. solution of carbonate of soda. Its 
injection is followed by marked local and general 
reaction, and in the case of the lower animals by at 
least temporary immunity from plague. Favourable 
results have been obtained in man. 

Klein advocated a prophylactic prepared by 
drying plague spleens at 47 C. over sulphuric acid. 
Ten to 15 mg. of this protects rats against virulent 
plague injections. 

Strong prepared a vaccine by prolonged subcul- 
tivation of plague bacilli, or by cultivation on un- 
favourable media. Using the resulting living bacteria, 
he inoculated forty -two criminals. Beyond local and 
general reaction no harm ensued. 

Other forms of antiplague vaccine have been 
introduced, but, so far, Haffkine's holds the field. 

Treatment* Hitherto the treatment of plague 
has been mainly symptomatic. In attempting to 
relieve symptoms the asthenic tendencies of the 
disease must ever be borne in mind, and depressant 
remedies of all kinds carefully avoided. 

During the earlier stages, when headache and 
perhaps high fever are urgent, much relief may be 
obtained from ice-bags to the head and neck. If 
it be deemed advisable to attempt to lower the tem- 
perature, sponging of the body every hour with warm 
water is a much safer measure than the employment 
of such antipyretics as antipyrin and similar drugs. 
Vomiting, according to Lowson, is usually relieved 
by a full dose of calomel followed by a saline. If 
this does not succeed, or if diarrhoea be present, he 
recommends ice pills and an effervescing mixture 
containing morphia and hydrocyanic acid. Sinapisms 



358 PLAGUE [CHAP. 

to the epigastrium are also useful. Later, when the 
pulse begins to fail, the same authority recommends 
strychnia, with or without carbonate of ammonia, in 
preference to digitalis or strophanthus. Strychnia, 
he says, should be used as a routine treatment, 
and commenced early in the disease. In collapse, 
stimulants of various kinds, including strong ammonia 
to the nostrils and ether hypodermically, are indicated ; 
they sometimes succeed in resuscitating a sinking 
patient. Given with judgment, Lowson found that 
morphia was by far the best hypnotic. At the com- 
mencement -i- to i gr. hypodermically relieves suf- 
fering and procures sleep ; later,- ^-gr. suffices. Hyos- 
cine (2^0 to T * T gr.) or chloral (20 gr.) and bromide 
of potassium (30 gr.) are of service for the same 
purpose. Diarrhoea, if urgent, is best treated by 
intestinal antiseptics, as salol in 10-gr. doses every 
four hours. The buboes in the early stage may be 
treated with applications of glycerin and belladonna. 
Should they become red and inflamed they must be 
poulticed and, on softening occurring, incised and 
dressed with iodoform. Indolent bubonic swellings 
should be treated with iodine liniment. Feeding 
and stimulation are to be conducted on ordinary 
principles. In the Manchurian epidemic intravenous 
injections of salvarsan were tried without effect. 

Serum-theraj)y. Yersin, Calmette, and Borrel 
have shown that intravenous, intraperitoneal, and 
subcutaneous injections of gelatin cultures of plague 
bacillus mixed with a little bouillon and heated for 
one hour to 58 C., if employed in doses just short 
of producing a fatal issue, and repeated three or four 
times at intervals of fifteen days, render rabbits 
immune to the plague bacillus. The heating kills the 
bacillus but does not destroy its toxins, which at first 
give rise to a very smart but, with each repetition 
of the injection, diminishing reaction. They further 
found that the serum of an immunized animal, if 
injected into an unprotected rabbit, exercised both an 
immunizing and a therapeutic influence. An unpro- 
tected rabbit was inoculated with a virulent culture 
of the bacillus, and twelve hours afterwards with 



xx] FLEAS 359 

the serum. The progress of the disease, which would 
otherwise have certainly proved fatal, was at once 
arrested, and. the animal recovered. They then 
immunized a horse by intravenous injections of living 
virulent cultures. After several injections made at 
intervals (the second after twenty days), they found 
that reaction, from being intense, became shorter and 
less pronounced, and that the serum of the animal 
was now both preventive and curative of inoculated 
plague in rabbits, guineapigs, and mice. At the Lister 
Institute an antimicrobic serum is prepared by injec- 
tion of dead and afterwards of living bacilli into horses, 
and in which antitoxic bodies are produced as well by 
immunization against the nucl co-proteins of B. pestis. 
Accounts had led us to infer that the value of 
Yersin's discovery was practically established for 
man. Of 26 cases of plague in China treated with 
his antipest serum, 24 were reported to have re- 
covered. Further experience in India, Hong Kong, 
and elsewhere has not confirmed these brilliant re- 
sults, the serum treatment of plague both by Yersin's 
and by a number of other sera having so far proved 
a complete failure, and at the best but modifying 
the course of the disease and prolonging life.* 

FLEAS 

These minute ectoparasites are now of considerable import- 
ance to the student of Tropical Medicine in view of the part 
they play in the spread of plague, and possibly of other diseases. 

They are active parasites of mammals and birds ; some suck 
blood indiscriminately, but the majority restrict themselves to 
one definite host. 

In one family (Sarcopysllidce) the females eventually attach 
themselves to heir host as fixed parasites, embedding them- 
selves in its skin when pregnant; to this category belongs 
the "chigger." 

The flea in its external structure is composed of a head, 
thorax, and abdomen. 

* Connor (1913) Has reported the apparent recovery of three 
patients to whom intravenous injections of iodine (1 part) and 
distilled water (60 parts) were frequently administered. If this 
be so, the method is worthy of further trial on a more extensive 
scale. Recently, Rama Iyer had five recoveries in six cases treated 
by intravenous injection of tincture of iodine ; 7-10 miuims were 
injected the first day twice, twice the second day, and afterwards 
once a day. 



CTBNOCEPHALUS. 



CHIATOPSYLLI'S. 
PVGIOPSYLLA. 



H 

HOPLOPSYLLUS. 




*q & 

Q * 
2 

l 

i 



0.1 



I! 



CO S 



FLEAS 361 

The head is small compared with the abdomen, and is conical 
in shape ; a comb of teeth is found sometimes on the cheek, or 
on the lower edge of the head. Eyes maybe present or absent. 
The head is provided with short antennae lodged in definite 
grooves. The mouth is furnished with appendages, maxillae 
and palps, which conceal the other parts. 

The thorax is composed of three segments, which are quite 
independent. Each consists of a dorsal arc carrying one or 
more belts of bristles. In some species the pronotum, or 
tergum of the first thoracic segment, carries a comb on its 
posterior edge. 

The three pairs of legs are composed of a number of seg- 
ments, the coxa being especially long and broad. The number 
and character of the bristles of the joints of the legs are used 
for distinguishing species. 

The abdomen is composed of ten segments ; on the ninth the 
tergum is in a great part occupied by a pitted sensory plate 
called the pygidium. In the male the sides of the tergum form 
large claspers. A large bristle or bristles project over and 
beyond the pygidium on the seventh segment, and are known 
as antepygidial bristles. There is a large and complex penis. 

The female flea is larger than the male. The curved recep- 
taculum seminis is a conspicuous object in the female. 

The eggs are dropped by the female casually, and hatch in 
three or four days in summer time. 

The larva lives in dust, is an active footless maggot, of 
a whitish colour, and is sparsely hairy. When full grown it 
spins a cocoon and pupates. The duration of the pupal stage 
depends on the temperature. 



CHAPTER XXI 
UNDULANT FEVER 

PEBRIS UNDULANS, MALTA FEVER, MEDI- 
TERRANEAN FEVER 

Definition. Undulant fever a disease of low 
mortality, indefinite duration, and irregular course 
is the result of infection by a specific germ, the 
Micrococcus melitensis. In its more typical form 
it is made up of a series of febrile attacks, each 
individual attack, after lasting one or more weeks, 
gradually subsiding into a period of absolute or rela- 
tive apyrexia, also of uncertain duration. Common 
and characteristic complications are rheumatic-like 
affection of joints, profuse diaphoresis, anaemia, 
liability to orchitis and neuralgia. 

Geographical distribution. Undulant fever 
was somewhat unfortunately named Malta fever, for 
we now know that the disease which was so designated 
is not, as was formerly supposed, confined to Malta, 
or even to the Mediterranean. It is very common 
there, particularly in Malta and the eastern and 
southern littoral of the Mediterranean ; but recent 
investigations show that it occurs in Italy, France, 
Spain, the Red Sea littoral, India, China, South 
Africa, Somaliland, West Africa, the West Indies, 
the Brazils, the United States, and even in England. 
I have seen two cases which originated in England ; 
they gave the serum reaction.* It is highly prob- 

* Experience has taught me to place little reliance on the 
serum-reaction test as ordinarily applied. Although with fresh 
blood and reliable cultures the reaction may be trustworthy, with 
stale blood and questionable cultures this test is most untrust- 
worthy. Time after time, in London, I have got contradictory 
laboratory reports on blood from the same patients, presumed to 
have Malta fever. If the cultures in the London laboratories be 
so manifestly unreliable, it is probable that many of those in use 
in India and America are equally so, and that inferences as 
regards the geographical distribution of this disease, founded on 
the behaviour of these cultures with blood serum, are most un- 

362 



INCIDENCE HISTORY 363 

able, therefore, that the same, or a similar, fever 
occurs in many other parts of the world, haring been 
confounded hitherto with malarial fever or with 
typhoid. This conviction is based rather on clinical 
than on laboratory observation. 

As it is extremely prevalent at times in the 
Mediterranean fleet and in the garrisons of Gibraltar 
and Malta, this disease is specially interesting to 
naval and military surgeons. Although only occa- 
sionally proving fatal, it is a fruitful source of 
inefficiency and invaliding. 

Until recently it appeared to be on the increase 
in its old haunts, and to be becoming common in places 
where it was formerly rare Port Said and Egypt, 
for example. 

The following figures, supplied by Bassett-Smith, 
show its importance formerly to our Naval and 
Military Services in the Mediterranean : 

INCIDENCE OF UNDULANT FEVER 

ARMY ^ , NAVY , Total days , 

Strength. Cases. Deaths. Strength. Cases. Deaths, sickness. 
1900 ... 9,203 171 10 .. 14,250 356 6 .. 22,998 



1901 ... 9,384 288 10 

1902 ... 10,889 198 10 

1903 ... 10,608 507 11 

1904 ... 10,615 429 15 



14,070 286 3 

18,470 436 3 

18,410 400 6 

19,590 430 9 



16,987 
27,432 
30,541 
28,458 



History. Formerly undulant fever was con- 
founded with typhoid and malaria. The labours of 
clinical observers from Marston (1861) to Maclean 
(1885), and more especially the bacteriological re- 
searches of Bruce (1887), Hughes, Gipps, Wright, 
Semple, and Bassett-Smith, have established it as a 
special disease. More recently an important advance 
of great practical value has been made by a Royal 
Society Commission, which has shown that the 
germ of this fever infests several of the lower ani- 
mals, especially goats, in whose milk and urine it is 
excreted. 

trustworthy. (This was written before the discovery of M. para- 
mclitcnsis ; it may be that the appropriate test was made with the 
wrong strain of micrococcus, and hence the discrepancy in the 
results. ) Lately, complement-fixation tests have given good results 
jn Bassett-Smith's hands. 



364 UNDULANT FEVER [CHAP. 

Etiology. Bruce, in 1887, demonstrated the 
presence in the spleen in undulant fever of a spe- 
cial bacterium the Micrococcus melitensis and by a 
series of experiments proved that it was the cause of 
the disease. Unfortunately the bacterium occurs only 
sparsely in the general circulation (unless in the earlier 
stages, when the temperature is high), and therefore 
to search for it in the later stages of the disease does 
not aid in diagnosis ; but pathologically Bruce's dis- 
covery is of great importance, as it enables us to say 
positively that undulant fever is a distinct disease, 
altogether different from either typhoid or malaria. 
The organism is present in abundance in the spleen 
pulp, and also in the lymphatic glands, in which it 
persists longer than elsewhere, and from both of which 
it can be separated by cultivation. Bruce found it 
in the spleen in ten fatal cases. His results have 
been confirmed by Hughes, Gipps, Wright, Durham, 
Bassett-Smith, and many others. Injections of pure 
cultures give rise to a similar disease in monkeys and 
other animals, from whose blood the micrococcus can 
be recovered, cultivated afresh, and, on injection into 
other animals, again give rise to the disease. In five 
recorded instances inoculation intentional and acci- 
dental of cultures of the micrococcus into man has 
been followed by the characteristic symptoms of 
undulant fever after an incubation period of from 
five to fifteen days. 

The Micrococcus melitensis measures 0-33 /i in 
diameter. It occurs generally singly, often in pairs, 
sometimes in fours, but never, unless in culture, in 
longer chains. According to Gordon it possesses 
one to four flagella. It is readily stained by a 
watery solution of gentian violet, and is best 
cultivated in a IJ-per-cent. very feebly alkaline 
peptonized agar beef jelly; in this medium, soon 
after inoculation, it appears as minute, clear, pearly 
specks. After thirty-six hours the cultures become 
a transparent amber; later they are opaque. No 
liquefaction occurs. 

At one time believed to be a delicate organism, 
recent investigations have shown that the micro- 



xxi] ETIOLOGY 365 

coccus can live for a long time in water, in dust, 
or on the clothes of patients, and that it is not 
killed by cold or desiccation. Moreover, it is now 
known that it is excreted in the urine, and that it 
occurs in great abundance in the milk and urine of 
apparently healthy goats (50 per cent.) and cows, 
and in the urine of apparently healthy men. It is 
also found in dogs (9 per cent.), sheep, and horses. 
These facts account in part for the great frequency 
and dissemination of the disease in such insanitary 
places as Malta, to which place they specially refer. 

Influence of age and residence. The most sus- 
ceptible age is between the sixth and the thirtieth 
year. Length of residence does not influence sus- 
ceptibility. In Malta the natives suffer as well as 
visitors. 

Influence of season. In Malta and other places 
where the disease is endemic this fever occasionally 
assumes an epidemic character. The period of its 
greatest prevalence in Malta is the season of lowest 
rainfall, embracing June, July, August, and Septem- 
ber; differing in this respect from typhoid, which, in 
that island, is more prevalent during the succeeding 
months. It is not confined absolutely to the summer 
months ; cases occur all the year round. 

Local causes. The disease tends to occur in 
particular towns or villages, in particular houses, 
barracks, hospitals, and rooms, and in particular ships, 
manifestly originating in limited foci of infection. 
The weight of evidence was regarded by some as 
peinting to its diffusion by air currents, and not by 
food or water. There is no absolute certainty on 
these points. Evidence is rapidly accumulating to 
show that milk is the most important medium. 

Formerly it was supposed that in Malta this 
fever was linked to the immediate neighbourhood 
of the seashore, and that the sewage-laden, tideless 
condition of the harbour at Yaletta was somehow 
responsible for its prevalence there. Zammit has 
shown, however, that the disease occurs all over the 
island, and that in some instances it is more prevalent 
in certain inland and relatively sanitary villages than 



366 UNDULANT FEVER (CHAP. 

in more insanitary towns and villages on the coast. 
Certain ships are notoriously foci of the disease, and, 
I believe, can carry the infection. Some time ago I 
saw a medical man suffering from a chronic fever, 
whose blood, in expert hands, gave the characteristic 
reaction, and who, if he had undulant fever, certainly 
got it from a ship which had recently been to the Medi- 
terranean. He himself had never been in that part of 
the world, and had not been out of England for a year. 

Influence of social conditions. All classes are liable 
to this disease ; the officer and his family as well as 
the soldier in barracks or the sailor on shipboard. 

Mode of infection. Although the possibility must 
not be ignored, undulant fever is not generally trans- 
mitted directly from one person to another ; that is 
to say, is not usually directly communicable from the 
sick to the healthy. Seeing that the germ may abound 
and persist in vaginal mucus for a very long time, 
Lafont suggests that the infection may be acquired 
during coitus. The germ is readily conveyed by inocula- 
tion \ the prick of a contaminated needle will suffice. 
Zammit and others seek to incriminate the mosquito 
as an inoculator, and point, in support of their con- 
tention, to the special prevalence of the disease in the 
mosquito season, to the facts that of 896 mosquitoes 
examined bacteriologically it was found in 4, and that 
the disease has twice been conveyed to monkeys by 
infected insects. 

A very striking circumstance is that in some 
hospitals the nurses and attendants in the fever 
wards are ten times more liable to contract the 
disease than people not so employed. 

Possibly the infection is blown about by winds 
as dust, and being inhaled, or falling into the 
conjunctival sac, or on a wound or sore, obtains an 
entrance. Bearing in mind the presence of the 
germ in the excreta of man and animals, the dusty 
character of the soil of Malta and many Mediterranean 
towns, the extremely minute dose of a culture required 
for a successful inoculation, in any or all of these ways 
infection seems possible. I have seen a case, origin- 
ating in England, in which a father was apparently 



IMMUNITY 367 

infected by placing in his mouth the clinical ther- 
mometer used by his son recently invalided from 
Malta on account of the disease. 

It is now known that the infection is conveyed 
in milk, and it has been suggested that it may be 
introduced in other kinds of food, or in water. Water 
as a usual medium may be dismissed, but there is 
strong evidence, judging from naval and military 
opinion, that, though the usual, milk is not the only 
medium. Facts point very distinctly to goat's milk as 
the most important medium of infection. The micro- 
coccus is present in the milk of 10 per cent, of Maltese 
goats. Monkeys are easily infected by feeding them 
on such milk. Immediately on the goat's milk supply 
to the naval and military hospitals in Malta being 
stopped the cases of locally acquired undulant fever 
practically ceased. Formerly this fever was very com- 
mon in Gibraltar. The milk supply of the garrison at 
that time was largely from goats imported from Malta. 
Gradually these goats have died out or been got rid 
of, and no more Maltese goats have been imported. 
Concurrently with this there has been a marked and 
proportional reduction of undulant fever cases in the 
garrison. In 1905 the s.s. Joshua Nicholson shipped 
65 goats in Malta. An epidemic of undulant fever 
broke out on board, nearly all those who drank the 
milk of the goats being attacked. 

I in MI unity. Bruce holds that one attack confers 
immunity from subsequent attacks ; other authorities 
believe that one attack, so far from conferring im- 
munity, actually predisposes to subsequent attacks. 
The latter is Bassett-Smith's opinion, based on the 
fact that he finds the bactericidal power of the 
serum and the phagocytic energy of the leucocytes 
lowered during, and for some considerable time after, 
an attack of the disease. 

1 iicubatioii period. The period of incubation 
in the naturally acquired disease is difficult to fix. 
Cases have occurred as early as six days after arrival 
in Malta ; others as late as fourteen and seventeen 
days after the subject of it has quitted Malta. Some 
have held that it may remain latent for months. 



368 UNDULANT FEVER [CHAP. 

Symptoms. Undulant fever begins generally 
with lassitude and malaise, such as we associate with 
the incubation of many specific fevers, particularly 
typhoid. There are headache, boneache, anorexia, 
and so forth. At first the patient may go about his 
work as usual. Gradually the daily task becomes 
increasingly irksome, and he takes to bed. Headache 
may now become intense, and, in addition, the 
patient will suffer from thirst and constipation. At 
the commencement the symptoms, except that there 
is very rarely diarrhoea, resemble those of typhoid. 
There are no rose spots, however, then or at any 
subsequent period. There is evidence in the coated 
tongue, the congested pharynx, the anorexia, and 
the epigastric tenderness, of gastric catarrh ; and 
the occasional cough and harsh, unsatisfactory breath- 
ing at the bases of the lungs indicate some degree of 
bronchitis or of pulmonary congestion. There may 
also be delirium at night. The fever is usually of a re- 
mittent type, the thermometer rising towards evening 
and falling during the night, the patient becoming 
bathed in a profuse perspiration towards morning. 
The spleen and the liver, but especially the former, 
are somewhat enlarged and, perhaps, tender. Lumbar 
pain may be urgent. 

After a week or two of this type of fever, specially 
distinguished by pains and perspirations, the tongue 
begins to clean, and the appetite to revive ; but, 
notwithstanding these signs of amendment, the 
patient still remains listless and liable to head- 
ache and constipation. He continues feverish and 
at times perspires profusely. Gradually, however, 
although the patient is anaemic and weak, subjec- 
tive symptoms become less urgent ; he sleeps well 
now, he has no delirium at night, and he can take 
his food, and this although the body temperature 
may still range slightly above the normal. Then 
once more, and perhaps over and over again, 
fever with all the former symptoms gradually 
returns; and now, if it has not declared itself 
before, the peculiar fleeting rheumatic-like affection 
of the joints or fasciae, so characteristic of the dis~ 



xxi] SYMPTOMS 369 

ease, shows itself in a large proportion of cases. 
One day a knee is hot, swollen, and tender ; next 
day this joint may be well, but another joint is 
affected ; and so this metastatic, rheumatic like con- 
dition may go on until nearly all the joints of the 
body have been involved one after the other. The 
patient may suffer also from neuralgia in different 
nerves intercostal, sciatic, and so on. Orchitis is an 
occasional complication. In some cases these com- 
plications are severe and characteristic ; in others 
they may be mild, or absent altogether. In this 
respect the same infinite variety exists as in other 
specific fevers. 

Perhaps the most characteristic feature of undulant 
fever is the peculiar behaviour of the temperature. In 
a mild case there may be a gradual ladder-like rise 
through a week or ten days to 103 or 104 F., and 
then, through another week or so, a gradual ladder- 
like fall to normal, the fever, which is of a continued 
or slightly remitting type, leaving for good without 
complication of any sort in about three weeks. Such 
mild cases are the exception. Usually, after a few 
days of apyrexia, absolute or relative, the fever wakes 
up again and runs a similar course, the relapse being 
in its turn followed by an interval of apyrexia, 
which is again followed by another relapse ; and so 
011 during several months. This is the "undulant" 
type from which Hughes derived the name he sug- 
gested for the disease -febris undulans. 

In another class of cases a continued fever persists 
for one, two, or more months, with or without the 
usual rheumatic, sudoral, and other concomitants 
the " continued " type of Hughes. 

Generally remittent or nearly continued in type, 
in a proportion of instances the fever exhibits 
distinct daily intermissions, the swinging tempera- 
ture chart suggesting some septic invasion or a 
malarial fever. But there is no local evidence of 
suppuration to be found ; neither, if we examine the 
blood, is the malaria parasite to be discovered ; nor 
is the quotidian rise of temperature accompanied by 
any ague-like rigor, or at most only by a feeling 



370 UNDULANT FEVER [CHAP. 

of chilliness ; nor is the disease amenable in any 
way to quinine. This is the "intermittent" type 
of Hughes. In other instances these types may be 
variously blended. 

In some patients, not months merely, but years, 
may elapse before they are finally rid of the tendency 
to febrile attacks and characteristic pains and aches. 
According to Bassett-Smith, the average duration of 
the disease is four months. Many of our sailors and 
soldiers are permanently invalided from the services 
on account of prolonged or recurring attacks of un- 
dulant fever. 

Sequelae, complications, and mortality. 
As a rule, by far the most serious consequences of 
undulant fever are the debility it entails, the emacia- 
tion, the profound anaemia, the rheumatic-like pains, 
the neuralgias, and such sequelae as abscess, orchitis, 
mastitis, parotitis, boils, etc. It is prone to give rise 
to ovarian pains, dysmenorrhoaa, amenorrhcea, menor- 
rhagia, and to favour abortion and premature labour. 
The germ may pass into the fo3tus, and children born 
under such circumstances are weakly. 

Complications, such as splenic and hepatic enlarge- 
ment, enlargement of the mesenteric glands, suppura- 
tion, phlebitis, chorea, various psychoses, arteritis, 
endocarditis, hsematuria, etc., are met with occasion- 
ally during the long course of this disease. There is 
little risk to life ; the mortality does not exceed 2 '5 
to 3 per cent. When death occurs it is usually from 
suddenly developed hyperpyrexia ; occasionally it is 
brought about by exhaustion, by haemorrhages and 
purpuric conditions, or by some pulmonary complica- 
tion such as pneumonia. In a few instances the 
fever is of a fulminating type, rapidly ending in death 
from hyperpyrexia. Hughes, in his elaborate mono- 
graph, designates such cases " malignant." 

Pathological anatomy and pathology. 
This disease has almost no pathological anatomy. 
The spleen is the only viscus of which it can be 
said that it is distinctly diseased. In undulant fever 
this organ is enlarged (average 17 oz.), soft, and dif- 
fluent; on microscopical examination the lymphoid 



xxi] DIAGNOSIS 371 

cells are found to be increased in number. There 
may be some congestion and even ulceration of the 
intestinal mucosa, but this is not an essential feature. 

Diagnosis. The diagnosis of undulant fever 
from typhoid is an important practical matter. It is 
exceedingly difficult in the early stages. Principal 
reliance has to be placed on the presence or 
absence of rose spots, of diarrhoea, of joint - com- 
plications, of sweats, the locality where and the 
season in which the disease was contracted, and, if 
available, the agglutination and precipitation tests. 

According to Nicolle, there is a mononuclear in- 
crease, 70-80 per cent. ; apart from this, microscopical 
blood examination, unless in a negative sense, is of 
no value in diagnosis. 

Wright has shown that, both as regards sedi- 
mentation and agglutination, the germ of undulant 
fever reacts to the serum test in the same way as, 
and even more markedly than, Bacillus typkosus. 
A. weaker dilution (never less than 1 in 30 or 50) 
than in typhoid must be used. Dead cultures give 
the reaction, and can be conveniently kept in stock 
for diagnostic purposes ; they are grown on agar, 
washed off with sterile normal saline, killed by heat 
at 60 C. or by formalin vapour. These observations 
have been abundantly confirmed. The agglutination 
reaction appears early in undulant fever as compared 
with typhoid, being available for diagnostic purposes 
by the end of the first week of the fever. It persists 
long after convalescence, often for years. 

The unreliability of the serum test for undulant 
fever is in part explained by the researches of Negre 
and Haynaud, who found that certain strains of 
M. melitensis agglutinated with normal sera, whereas 
other strains did not agglutinate with undoubted 
undulant-fever sera. The latter they name the " para- 
melitensis group." Bassett - Smith concurs in this. 
Therefore, before concluding from a negative reaction 
that any given case is not undulant fever, the serum 
should be tested with a paramelitensis culture. 

After the fever has gone on for several weeks 
diagnosis is, of course, easier ; in the early stages, on 



372 UNDtJLANT FEVER [CHAP. 

clinical grounds alone, and apart from the agglutina- 
tion test, it may be almost impossible. It may be 
that it is only on the post-mortem table that we have 
the relative assurance, from the absence of ulceration 
in the ileum, that we have had to deal with a case 
of undulant fever. Cultures from spleen pulp, with 
subsequent inoculation into animals, should give reli- 
able evidence if the results are positive. Tuberculosis, 
abscess, empyema, malaria, relapsing fever, and all 
the causes of continued high temperature of a septic 
type have to be carefully excluded in attempting 
a diagnosis. The possibility of the concurrence of 
another infection, typhoid for example, must not be 
overlooked. 

Prognosis. In the present state of our know- 
ledge it is impossible to say how long any given case 
of this disease may last, what the risk to life 
may be, or what complications may be encountered. 
Birt and Lamb, from a series of valuable obser- 
vations, conclude that important deductions may 
be derived from the behaviour of the agglutinating 
substances present in the blood. Their conclusions 
are, briefly, as follow : (1) Prognosis is unfavourable 
if the agglutinating reaction is persistently low ; 
(2) also if the agglutinating reaction rapidly falls 
from a high figure to almost zero. (3) A persistently 
high and rising agglutinating reaction sustained into 
convalescence is favourable. (4) A long illness may 
be anticipated if the agglutination figure, at first 
high, decreases considerably. These conclusions are 
borne out by Bassett-Smith's very careful work. 

Treatment. Malta and those Mediterranean 
ports in which this fever is endemic should be avoided 
by pleasure- and health-seekers during the summer. 
Those who are obliged to live there all the year 
round would do well, at this season, to leave the 
towns and reside in places of healthy repute in the 
country. As a matter of precaution, in the endemic 
area the drinking-water, food, and drains ought at all 
seasons to receive special attention. All milk should 
be avoided, or sterilized by boiling, and food dishes 
should be washed with boiled water. Every care 



xxi] TREATMENT 373 

should be taken to avoid insect bites and other skin 
lesions. Laboratory workers must be careful in 
handling cultures of the micrococcus ; the accidental 
introduction of the micrococcus into the conjunctival 
sac has sufficed to cause the disease. 

When the diagnosis is sure, it is well to 'give a 
purge none better than calomel and jalap and to 
instruct the attendants to keep the patient's tem- 
perature systematically below 103 F. by cold sponging 
with vinegar and water or, if necessary, by cold bath 
or ice variously applied. In view of the prolonged 
nature of the fever, this measure is one of importance ; 
at the same time, such treatment need not be applied 
too energetically, or so as to depress ; a fall of 2 or 
3 is all that is desirable. 

Bassett-Smith recommends yeast and its products. 
Quinine and, on account of the joint affection, the 
salicylates are very generally prescribed. Both are 
useless, if not injurious. Phenacetin and similar anti- 
pyretics are also often given to bring down tempera- 
ture ; but the wisdom of employing depressing drugs 
in so chronic and asthenic a disease as undulant 
fever is, to say the least, questionable. Any threat 
of hyperpyrexia is best met as directed, namely, 
by early employment of sponging, the wet pack, or, 
if necessary, by the cold bath. Sleeplessness may 
demand hypnotics ; headache, if severe, moderate 
doses of phenacetin, pyramidon, or similar drug ; 
inflamed joints or testes, the usual local applications ; 
constipation, enemata or aperients. In fact, the 
treatment of undulant fever resolves itself into a 
treatment of symptoms. 

The therapeutic employment of vaccines of dead 
M. melitensis, prepared and administered accord- 
ing to Wright's methods, has been favourably re- 
ported on by Reid. In Basse tt- Smith's hands the 
results have not been so favourable. After a pro- 
longed and very careful trial, the latter concludes 
that if used during the acute phases of the fever, so 
far from doing good, they act detrimentally, but that 
in chronic cases, with slight relapses and low tem- 
peratures, by stimulating slightly the machinery of 



374 UNDULANT FEVER [CHAP. 

resistance they are of real value, and it is to this 
type of case that he now restricts their use. Sergent 
concludes that the practical value of serum-therapy 
and vaccination in undulant fever has not been 
demonstrated. 

The diet at first should consist of milk (in Malta, 
boiled) ; later, of broths and eggs and, if necessary, 
stimulants. Solids must not be freely given during 
high fever or when the tongue is coated. If appe- 
tite is present ordinary simple food may be taken. 
Lemonade or lime juice should be given after a time ; 
not merely as a pleasant, thirst- relieving beverage, 
but with a view to averting scurvy not at all an 
improbable complication if the diet is too restricted 
over a long period. Feeding must be conducted with 
the greatest circumspection, avoiding overfeeding on 
the one hand and a low monotonous diet on the other. 
The tongue and the appetite are the best guides. 

Exercise, travelling, and anything that tends to 
induce fatigue are prone to provoke relapse if indulged 
in prematurely ; but a couch or chair in the garden 
is to be encouraged, weather permitting. The patient 
should rest for at least three weeks after temperature 
has become normal. 

Flannel clothing should be worn, and frequently 
changed if there is much sweating. 

Change of climate is not so necessary as in malarial 
affections, seeing that the disease may persist in 
England, and that it may gradually wear out in 
the endemic localities. It is not desirable to move 
a patient when fever runs high, or when debility is 
very great, or when the cool and healthy season in 
the Mediterranean is at hand. It must be con- 
sidered that at this time winter is approaching in 
England, with climatic conditions very unsuitable 
for a patient who has become anaemic and debilitated 
from a long course of fever ; at this season he would 
do much better in a milder climate. When, however, 
the case occurs early in the summer, or runs over the 
winter, then, in order to avoid the heat of the Medi- 
terranean, change to England, if feasible and if it can 
be comfortably effected, should be advised, 



xxi] PREVENTION 375 

When possible the subject of undulant fever would 
do well to avoid the endemic area for one or more 
years after recovery. 

Prevention. Though mules, asses, oxen, cows, 
rabbits, and fowls can convey the micrococcus, there 
is no longer any doubt that goat's milk is the prin- 
cipal medium through which undulant fever is com- 
municated to man.* This discovery has led to very 
striking and important results. 

On the recommendation of the Mediterranean 
Fever Commission, the use of the milk of the 
Maltese goat was interdicted in the naval and mili- 
tary forces of that island. Immediately the inci- 
dence of undulant fever began to drop in the Navy 
from an average of 240 per annum up to 1906, to 
3 in 1910, and in the Army from a previous average 
of 315 per annum to 9 in 1907. In 1909 the health 
authorities in Malta were authorized to kill all goats 
whose blood or milk gave the M. melitensis reaction. 
The goat population of the island was consequently 
reduced from 17,110 in 1907, to 7,619 in 1910. 
Concurrently the fever incidence in the civil popula- 
tion fell from an annual average of 632 to 318 (Eyre). 

These facts suffice to indicate the direction pre- 
ventive measures should take. It must be borne in 
mind that certain products of milk cheese, butter, 
etc. may communicate the germ, and, further, that 
infected goats may appear to be in perfect health 
and may milk satisfactorily.! 

* Proportion of infected goats in 

Malta 50 per cent. 

Algeria 3'4 ,, 

Tunis 30-7 

Marseilles 34*2 

According to Zammit, samples of infected milk are now being 
detected by the health authorities at Malta by employing the 
diluted milk for agglutinating cultures of 31. inch 'tennis macro- 
scopically in capillary tubes ; the result being subsequently con- 
finned by a positive reaction of the serum of the suspected goat, 
which is then destroyed. This method is said to give rapid and 
reliable results, in addition to being more convenient than the 
agglutination reaction with serum alone. 

"I" It would seem that in South Africa infected goats often have 
marked arthritic symptoms, may suffer from mammitis, aud are 
prone to abort. 



CHAPTER XXII 

TYPHOID FEVER IN THE TROPICS, AND 
TYPHO-MALARIAL FEVER 

TYPHOID FEVER 

THE existence of typhoid fever in the tropics was 
for long not only ignored but actually denied, even 
by physicians and pathologists of repute. Formerly, 
the idea of malaria so dominated all views of tropical 
fevers that nearly every case of pyrexia, other than 
those of the most ephemeral description, or those 
associated with the exanthemata or with manifest 
inflammation, was relegated to this cause. When 
ulceration of the ileum was encountered post mortem 
the lesion was regarded, not as the specific lesion of 
the fever, but merely as a complication. More cor- 
rect views prevail at the present day, and typhoid 
now ranks not only as a common disease in the 
tropics, but, to the European there, as one of the 
most commonly fatal. Little is known about typhoid 
as a disease of natives; Rogers has shown that in 
Calcutta, at all events, it is by no means uncommon 
among all classes. As a disease of Europeans it is 
only too familiar to the army surgeon in India and 
to the civil practitioner in most if not in all parts of 
the tropical world. 

Besides being the scourge of the young European 
in India, typhoid is common enough in Japan, in 
China, in Cochin China, in the Philippines, in the 
Malay country, in Mauritius ; the French have had 
large experience of it in Algeria and their West 
African possessions; the British have had similar 
experience in South Africa. It is also found in the 
West Indies ; in Nigeria, even ; in fact, wherever it 
has been properly looked for. 
376 



PROPAGATION 3?7 

Typhoid fever is, one might almost say, alarmingly 
prevalent among young soldiers and civilians in the 
East. It is very common among them during the first 
two or three years after their arrival. Fortunately, 
the liability decreases with length of residence. Ap- 
parently a sort of acclimatization, or rather habitua- 
tion, to the poison is established with time, just as 
tends to be the case with other organic poisons. It is 
not unlikely that the relative exemption if such there 
be of the native races is owing to a like immunizing 
effect produced by, living in constant contact with 
typhoid and similar toxic agents, or to an attack 
in childhood. On visiting native cities Chinese 
cities, for example one is filled with amazement 
at the state of filth in which the people live, and 
not only live but thrive. The streets are narrow 
and never cleansed ; the common sewer lies beneath 
the flagstones, and through the interstices between the 
stones can be seen the black, stinking slush in the 
sewer. The sewage is not confined in a well-laid 
cemented drain, but soaks through the loosely laid, 
uncemented stones, and thoroughly saturates the 
ground on which the tumble-down, overcrowded 
houses are built. Night soil is allowed to remain 
in wooden buckets inside the houses awaiting collec- 
tion by the soil merchant, who sells it to the market 
gardener and the farmer. Urine is accumulated in 
earthenware jars, and is similarly disposed of. The 
houses are rarely swept and cleaned, hardly ever 
repaired. In every corner are filth and rubbish. And 
yet in such circumstances the population seems to 
thrive. Doubtless, where the European would almost 
surely contract typhoid and other filth diseases, the 
natives have obtained a high degree of immunity. 

In Eastern countries little or no care is taken to 
prevent contamination of the wells and streams with 
sewage matter, and unless foreigners are very careful 
about boiling their drinking-water and the water in 
which their plates, etc., are washed, avoiding salads 
and all uncooked vegetable dishes, refraining from 
bazaar-made drinks, and protecting their food and 
food-dishes from flies and other mechanical trans- 



378 TYPHOID FEVER [CHAP. 

mitters of the Bacillus typhosus, they are almost sure, 
sooner or later, to fall victims. 

It would appear that typhoid is not only a com- 
mon disease among Europeans in the tropics, but that 
it is also a very virulent one, with a death-rate 
twice as heavy as the death - rate of typhoid in 
England. According to my experience in China, 
not only is the tropical form grave from the outset, 
but it is extremely liable to relapse. In England 
the death-rate is put down at about 1 in 8 attacked ; 
but in India the elaborate and carefully prepared 
statistics show a death-rate of rather over 1 in 3. 
Typhoid in India, indeed, kills more European soldiers 
than does cholera. 

Not only does typhoid exhibit increased virulence, 
but experience has shown that against it those sani- 
tary safeguards which are found to be practically 
sufficient in England are by no means so effective in 
India. It would also appear that soldiers on the march 
contract the disease in passing through uninhabited 
country, in spite of the fact that the camp may be 
pitched in spots which, presumably, had never been 
occupied by man before, and although the men may 
have drunk only of water from springs and streams 
that were beyond suspicion of fsecal contamination. 
Similar testimony comes from Australia, where 
typhoid has occurred in the back country in lonely 
spots hundreds of miles from fixed human habita- 
tions. These data suggest that typhoid carriers are 
more numerous and varied than is generally believed, 
or that Eberth's bacillus, under certain conditions of 
soil and temperature, may exist as a pure yet virulent 
saprophyte, for which an occasional passage through 
the human body is not necessary. 

Aiiti-typhoicl inoculation. Having observed 
that injection into the subcutaneous tissues of the 
human subject of dead cultures of Bacillus typhosus 
conferred on the blood of the individual experimented 
on the power of agglutinating and sedimenting living 
cultures of the bacillus, Sir A. Wright, in the hope 
that in this circumstance he had grounds for conclud- 
ing that protection against typhoid might be conferred 



xxn] INOCULATION 379 

by some system of artificial immunization, devised such 
a system, and has practised it on a scale sufficiently 
extensive to warrant some conclusions. 

During the Maidstone epidemic of typhoid in 1897, 
of 200 individuals, the subjects of special observa- 
tion, 95 were inoculated, 105 were not inoculated. 
None of the former contracted typhoid, whereas 19 
of the latter were attacked. Encouraged by these 
results, Wright proceeded to inoculate on a larger 
scale. In the British Medical Journal of January 
20, 1900, he summarizes his results up to that date. 
Of 11,295 British soldiers in India, to whom his 
observations apply, 2,835 were inoculated, 8,460 
remained uninoculated. Of the former, 27 at some 
subsequent time had attacks of naturally acquired 
typhoid; of the latter, 213 were similarly attacked; 
the percentages being 0'95 and 2'5 respectively. In 
these attacks 5 of the previously inoculated died ; 23 
of the uninoculated. On the assumption that the 
whole of the British army in India was inoculated 
and that the foregoing results were maintained, there 
would be an annual saving of over 1,000 cases of 
enteric and of nearly 200 lives. 

Since that time Sir A. Wright, with an indus- 
try and zeal in keeping with the important stake at 
issue, has steadily pursued his investigations. The 
English garrison in Egypt and the South African 
War afforded opportunities to test his conclusions in 
other fields, and on an extensive scale. The figures 
appear to justify the conclusion that these inocula- 
tions lead to at least a twofold reduction in the 
incidence of the disease in those inoculated, and a 50- 
per-cent. reduction of the case-mortality. Crombie 
concluded from a careful and independent examina- 
tion of the statistics, based on the results of in- 
oculation as against non-inoculation in a group of 
250 officers invalided from various causes from the 
South African War, that up to the age of 30 the ad- 
vantage of a single inoculation is distinct 27 per 
cent, of the inoculated being attacked, as against 51 
per cent, of the non-inoculated. Beyond 30 he found 
the positions reversed, the advantage being with 



380 TYPHOID FEVER [CHA*. 

the non-inoculated. The results were better after a 
single than after a double inoculation, which ap- 
peared, according to Croinbie's figures, to increase 
the liability to infection. 

Since the time Crombie's statistics were compiled, 
anti-typhoid inoculation has been practised not only 
in the army in India, but also by the French in their 
armies in Tunis, Algeria, and Morocco, and by the 
Americans on the Mexican boundary, with gratifying 
results. These results have been amply confirmed 
by the extensive use of inoculation against typhoid 
during the Great War. Better methods of prepar- 
ation and dosage have been introduced, and the 
reaction after vaccination has been mitigated thereby. 
According to Leishman, the rule is to use a vaccine 
not over three months old, to give two doses, the 
first containing 500 million bacilli, and ten days later 
the second of 1,000 million bacilli. The average dura- 
tion of protection he considers to be two years, after 
which one injection of 1,000 bacilli should be given. 

Details of the method of preparation and of the 
clinical effects of Sir A. Wright's inoculations will 
be found in the Lancet of September 19, 1896, and 
the British MedicalJournal of January 20, 1900. 

It is not requisite to enter further into the sub- 
ject of typhoid fever, for, although this important 
disease is abundantly common in the tropics, it is 
not properly classifiable as a tropical disease ; more- 
over, it is fully dealt with in every textbook on 
general medicine. It is alluded to here rather by 
way of warning the practitioner in the tropics against 
overlooking it, and against assuming that every case 
of fever he may encounter is malarial ; and, also, 
of indicating the special importance to him of a 
knowledge of the latest views on the practical value 
of anti-typhoid inoculation. 

TYPHO-MALABIAL FEVER 

Some years ago a good deal was said, particularly 
in America, about " typho-malarial fever." An idea 
got abroad that there is a specific disease which, 
though resembling both, is neither typhoid nor 



xxn] TYPHO-MALAKIAL FEVER 381 

malarial, nor any of the other recognized forms of 
continued fever. There is no doubt that in warm 
climates, besides the known fevers, there are several, 
if not many, undifferentiated specific fevers. But 
the clinical group indicated by the term "typho- 
malarial " is not one of these. Typho-malarial fever 
is an ordinary typhoid occurring in a person who 
has been exposed to malarial influences, i.e. who has 
become infected with the malaria parasite. 

It has already been pointed out that the malaria 
germ may remain dormant for months or even years 
in the body, and then, on the occurrence of severe 
physiological strain such as a chill, shock, excessive 
fatigue, and so forth wake up again, and once more 
multiply and flourish in the blood and give rise to 
the phenomena of malarial fever. It is a recognized 
clinical fact, one familiar to our predecessors and 
much insisted on by them, that any disease process 
occurring in a person who has once had malarial fever 
is prone to take on an intermittent or periodic 
character ; as if the previous malarial infection had 
left a sort of impress of periodicity on the consti- 
tution. Doubtless this is owing to the fact that 
in individuals with Laveran's parasite dormant in 
their tissues the physiological strain implied by the 
presence of active disease paralyses for the time 
being the innate protective power of the human 
body, and the parasite is once more permitted to 
multiply and work its mischief in the blood. There 
are few more depressing influences than typhoid. 
Little wonder, then, that typhoid in a malarial is 
often accompanied by clinical evidences of a resusci- 
tation of the malaria germ. And so it comes to pass 
that an attack of typhoid in malarial countries, or 
in persons returned from malarial countries, is prone 
to assume some of the characters of intermittent or 
remittent fever. 

Not infrequently, instead of the slowly increasing 
headache, malaise, creeping cold, anorexia, and day-by- 
day ladder-like rise of temperature, the first recognized 
sign of typhoid in such circumstances is a violent rigor, 
immediately followed by rapid rise of temperature, 



382 TYPHO-MALAKIAL FEVER [CHAP. 

which, in an hour or two, mounts to 104 or 105 F., to 
be succeeded in a few hours by profuse sweating and a 
partial remission of fever exactly resembling an attack 
of ague. For the next two or three days these attacks 
are repeated, the remission becoming less complete each 
time. Quinine may be given ; but, although the rigors 
and marked oscillations of temperature are checked, the 
practitioner is surprised and disappointed to find that 
the temperature keeps permanently too high, and 
that the typhoid state is gradually developed. Or it 
may be that a typhoid fever begins in the usual in- 
sidious way, runs its usual course for a week or two, 
and then, in the middle of what is regarded as an 
ordinary typhoid, rigors and temperature oscillations 
and other malarial manifestations show themselves. 
If quinine is given, these oscillations cease and the 
typhoid resumes its usual course. Or it may be that 
it is not until the end of the fever and during con- 
valescence that these malarial symptoms are developed. 
Several such cases are now on record in which the 
malaria parasite was found in the blood. 

The diagnosis between typhoid and some forms 
of malarial remittent is often exceedingly difficult, in 
certain cases almost impossible, without the assistance 
of the microscope and the serum test. The principal 
points to be kept in view are, first, the mode of inci- 
dence of the disease. In typhoid there is a gradual 
rise of temperature, a daily gain of a degree or so 
during several days, the maximum not being attained 
for five or six days ; as against the sharp rigor and 
sudden rise of temperature through five or six degrees 
in the first few hours in malarial fever. Secondly, 
the characters of the gastric symptoms differ. Thus, in 
malarial remittent there are bilious vomiting and per- 
haps bilious diarrho3a, tenderness of the liver, epigas- 
trium, and spleen, and an icteric tint of skin and sclerse ; 
in contrast to the abdominal distension, perhaps the 
iliac tenderness and gurgling, and the peasoup stools 
of typhoid. Such signs as epistaxis, deafness, and 
cheek-flushing in typhoid have a certain weight, but 
skin eruptions in the tropics are of little aid in the 
diagnosis of such cases. Prickly heat, or its remains, is 



xxn] DIAGNOSIS 383 

present in nearly everyone, sick and healthy, malarial or 
typhoid patient alike ; so that rose spots are to be 
found in nearly all fevers in hot weather. None of 
these signs can be considered as absolutely diagnostic ; 
all or any of them may be present in typhoid, and all 
or any of them may be present in malarial remittent. 
The only really diagnostic marks are tertian or quartan 
periodicity, amenability to quinine, and, above all, that 
supplied by the malaria parasite in the blood and the 
Widal serum test. In all doubtful cases the malaria 
parasite should be sought for; if it is found, the case has 
certainly a malarial element, and quinine is indicated. 
If it is not found, and if quinine has not been 
administered and several negative examinations of 
the blood have been made, the case is probably one of 
pure typhoid. Nevertheless, if the malaria parasite 
is found, typhoid is not necessarily excluded 

No one who is proceeding to the tropics to 
practise medicine should fail to familiarize himself 
with the technique for the Widal reaction. In Europe 
he can fall back on the bacteriologist ; in the tropics, 
as a rule, he cannot do this. 

Prognosis and management. Remittents 
under suitable treatment we expect to see recover ; 
typhoids too often go the other way. A word of caution 
may be given as to prognosis and treatment. In form- 
ing diagnosis too much weight must not be attached to 
the presence or absence of diarrhosa ; constipation is 
much more common in tropical typhoid than in the 
disease in Europe. Diagnosis, therefore, must not be 
too much influenced by absence of diarrhoea, and the 
practitioner must not be led by the presence of con- 
stipation into giving active purgatives. Purgatives 
are often of the greatest service in malarial remittent ; 
but if, in consequence of a mistake in diagnosis, it is 
assumed that a case of typhoid is remittent, and large 
doses of calomel and other cathartics are administered, 
the result may be disastrous. If doubt exist about 
diagnosis, and quinine be given, it will not do a 
typhoid much harm. It is a good rule, therefore, when 
in doubt, to give quinine, but to avoid purgatives. 



CHAPTER XXIII 

IMPERFECTLY DIFFERENTIATED FEVERS OF 
THE TROPICS 

THERE can be little doubt that in the tropics there 
are a number of fevers specifically distinct from any 
of the foregoing, and also from the better-known 
fevers of temperate climates. Such fevers are con- 
stantly met with and are a perpetual puzzle to the 
conscientious diagnostician ; and, up to the present, 
little of a truly scientific character has been done 
towards describing, separating, and classifying them. 
Some attempts have been made to arrange these im- 
perfectly differentiated fevers on a clinical basis; but, 
until their causes have been discovered and, above 
all, until they have been studied in reference to any 
possible connection they may have with the known 
pathogenic tropical parasites, anything like a sound 
classification and description has to be postponed. 
So far as known, they are not associated with dis- 
tinctive exanthems or even with distinctive visceral 
lesions; a circumstance which has contributed, doubt- 
less, to retard our knowledge in a very important 
department of tropical medicine. 

The late Colonel Crombie, I.M.S., attempted 
a classification of these fevers on a clinical basis, 
which, so far as it goes, is of distinct value. His 
remarks apply solely to the fevers of India; but I 
can recognize in his descriptions clinical forms which 
I frequently met with formerly in China. It is fair 
to infer from this latter circumstance that, if these 
fevers are found in India and China, they probably 
occur also in other warm countries. 

Crombie divided them into simple continued 
fever, low fever, and non-malarial remit- 
tent. To these I would add yet another, which, 
from experience in China, I regard as a distinct 
384 



SIMPLE CONTINUED FEVER 385 

clinical entity, and which from its peculiar feature I 
would call double continued fever. 

Since Crombie wrote, several observers have made 
important contributions to the subject, notably Thomp- 
stone and Bennett, who described under the name 
of hyperpyrexial fever what appears to be a special 
form of fever in West Africa ; McCarrison, who has 
described a fever of three days' duration occurring in 
Chitral, and which is now identified as phlebotomus 
fever ; and Rogers, who has more recently described 
one of seven days' duration in Calcutta (p. 389). 

Simple continued fever. Simple continued 
fever generally, if not invariably, commences with a 
rigor, the temperature rapidly or more slowly mount- 
ing to 104, 105, or even 106 F. There are headache, 
malaise, a white furred tongue, anorexia, thirst, and 
perhaps vomiting. The fever lasts usually from three 
to eight days ; occasionally it is prolonged for two, 
three, or four weeks. Crombie remarked that these 
cases are particularly common in towns, and were 
known locally as Bombay fever, Calcutta fever, and 
so forth. It might be suggested that such fevers 
are mild or aborted typhoid ; but, in 'view of the 
absence of the characteristics of enteric, the insigni- 
ficant mortality, and the freedom from complications, 
so grave a diagnosis does not seem to be justified. It is 
customary to attribute them to heat, chills, change of 
season, acclimatization, irregularities in diet, exposure 
to the sun, and the like. How far these etiological 
speculations are correct it is hard to say. 

L.OW lever Like the preceding, this type of 
fever is not an unusual one among Europeans in the 
tropics. Its characteristics are indefinite duration 
weeks or months ; a persistent though slight rise of 
temperature, rarely above 101 '5 F. but never below 
99 ; anorexia, debility, loss of flesh, and a tendency 
to bilious diarrhoea. It is unrelieved by quinine or 
arsenic ; but it almost invariably responds to a 
change of air, especially to a trip at sea. 

Noii-malarial remittent. Crombie remarked 
that it is a pity we have no better name for this fever, 
which is of very frequent occurrence in India, and is 

N 



386 NON-MALARIAL REMITTENT [CHAP. 

one of the most fatal of the fevers there. Remittent 
is a misnomer, for the symptoms are even less remit- 
ting than those of typhoid. The temperature runs 
high, touching 104 or 105F. for a long part of its 
course. It begins not unlike simple continued fever. 
By some it is considered a variety of typhoid, not- 
withstanding the absence of many of the symptoms 
of that disease. Hepatic enlargement and congestion 
are early and constant conditions ; but the spleen, as 
a rule, is not distinctly enlarged. 

" Bilious diarrhoea, in no respect resembling the 
diarrhoea of typhoid, is also a very frequent symptom. 
Quinine often given in large and repeated doses in 
these cases is not only not useful, but so obviously 
adds to the distress of the patient, without in any way 
producing an improvement in the progress of the 
symptoms, that it is very soon abandoned. Mean- 
while, the temperature continuing persistently high, 
marked head symptoms, especially delirium of a 
muttering and irritable kind, come on, and the 
patient may even, and often does, pass into a con- 
dition of coma from which he can hardly be roused. 
This condition of persistent high temperature without 
marked remission, a distinctly enlarged and congested 
liver, bilious diarrhoea, congestion of the back of both 
lungs; and a low, muttering delirium, is generally 
reached by the eighteenth to the twenty-fourth day. 
If coma supervenes, the patient frequently dies about 
this period. In more favourable cases, where the 
symptoms are less severe, they may continue for a 
week or two longer. In such the average duration 
of the case is six weeks." (Crombie.) 

Crombie, although he had seen this fever in 
Europeans, regarded it as being essentially a disease 
of natives. It is seldom met with after the age of 
30, but is frequent enough in childhood. 

Double continued fever. In South China 
I encountered, both in Amoy and in Hong Kong, 
a peculiar type of fever, apparently of very little 
gravity as affecting life, but sufficiently distressing 
while it lasted. Thorpe has recorded a case occur 
ring in Wei-hai-wei. The disease is characterized 



xxni] DOUBLE CONTINUED FEVER 387 

by an initial pyrexial stage of from ten days' to 
a fortnight's duration, followed by a stage of from 
three to seven days' relative or absolute apyrexia, 
which, in its turn, is succeeded by another spell of 
about ten days' 
duration of smart 
fever, and then by 
convalescence (see 
Chart 6). Both in 
the primary and 
the terminal fever 
the evening tem- 
perature may rise 
to 104 or 104-5 F. 
It might be said 
that such cases are 
relapses of simple 
continued fever ; 
but as I have seen, 
on at least two oc- 
casions, the same 
succession of events 
occurring almost 
simultaneously in 
two patients living 
in the same house 
once in husband 
and wife, and once 
in brother and 
sister it seems 
probable that this 
is a special form of 
disease, and that 
the double fever 
is a constant and 
characteristic fea- 
ture. In the case 
of the brother and 
sister the march 
of their fevers was 
strictly simultan- 
eous, the primary 




388 HYPERPYREXIAL FEVER [CHAP. 

fever, the apyretic interval, and the terminal fever 
occurring in both patients on the same days. Beyond 
a certain amount of headache and febrile distress 
there are no special symptoms, so far as I have been 
able to observe, nor any special complications. 

Hyperpyrexial fever. From time to time 
we have accounts from the West Coast of Africa, 
where it is not uncommon in certain parts, of a 
peculiar type of fever, especially prevalent during 
the dry season, and which doubtless was formerly 
regarded and treated as malarial, but which, 
from the absence of the malaria parasite in the 
blood, and the impotence of quinine in checking 
it, we now know cannot be malarial. From its 
gradual incidence and prolonged course, although it 
is associated with hyperpyrexia, we know that it 
cannot be siriasis or heat apoplexy. "What it may 
be is difficult to say; the probabilities seem to 
be in favour of its being a special form of tropical 
disease, associated with an animal intermediary oc- 
curring in and limited to the endemic localities. 

Symptoms. Thompstone and Bennett describe 
the clinical features thus: "This fever is generally 
ushered in by a slight rise of temperature, followed 
by profuse perspiration and a fall in the tempera- 
ture to about 99 F. After a period of apyrexia of 
perhaps twenty-four hours' duration, the temperature 
begins again to rise, slowly at first, but when 105 
is passed, with alarming rapidity, one degree in ten 
minutes having been frequently observed, and it may 
reach 107 on the second day. For fourteen or even 
for thirty days subsequently there is absolutely no 
tendency for it to fall. The skin acts either very 
slightly or not at all, and all antipyretic drugs fail." 

In due course the tongue becomes dry and 
shrivelled, but the spleen and liver are not enlarged ; 
the urine is normal and abundant, the bowels being 
regular or loose. The conjunctivas are injected, the 
pupils contracted. There is much anxiety and rest- 
lessness ; but the mind is clear in most cases except 
when the temperature is very high. 

If the patient is to recover, a change for the 



xxni] SEVEN-DA YtS' FEVER 389 

better may be looked for about the end of the third 
week. Convalescence is very gradual, and it may be 
six weeks before temperature is normal. Half the 
cases die. 

A curious feature is the remarkable rapidity with 
which the blood coagulates the moment it is exposed 
to the air. 

Malaria parasites, though carefully sought for, 
have not been found ; neither have attempts at culti- 
vations from the blood yielded any micro-organism. 
The white corpuscles are rather in excess. 

Treatment. The only treatment which has been 
of value is the diligent use of the cold bath and the 
cold pack. 

Seven-days' fever of Indian ports. Defini- 
tion. A short fever occurring epidemically during 
the summer months in Indian ports, and charac- 
terized by sudden invasion, severe headache, pains 
in the back and limbs, and pyrexia of a peculiar 
saddle-back type occasionally of a continued type 
lasting from six to seven days and associated with 
a pulse which is relatively slow in relation to 
temperature. 

History. Possibly this fever is one of several 
fevers included under the somewhat comprehensive 
term "simple continued fever." Rogers, by a careful 
study of a vast number of cases of fever in Calcutta, 
observing that this particular type has a definite 
seasonal incidence the late hot weather and the 
early monsoon months in Calcutta and declines 
just at the time when the principal malarial rise of 
the year takes place, concludes from this and from 
the absence of malarial parasites that it cannot be 
malarial, from the absence of respiratory symptoms 
that it is not influenza, and from the absence of 
violent joint-pains and eruption that it cannot be 
dengue. He cultivated a bacillus from the blood, 
but did not succeed in establishing any causal 
relationship of the organism to the disease. He 
further states that it usually begins amongst the 
sailors and spreads later to the townspeople; that 
it occurs in other Indian ports, but is probably 



390 GLANDULAB FEVER [CHAP. 

unknown in the interior of the country. Apparently 
it is a mild disease, has no mortality, and no dis- 
tinctive pathological anatomy. 

Pseudo-typhus of Deli. Schuffher has de- 
scribed a fever endemic in Deli, Sumatra, which 
resembles very closely, if it be not identical with, 
Japanese river fever (see p. 315). As in the case of 
the latter disease, it is communicated probably by an 
acarus or a tick ; there is an initial necrotic ulcer on 
the skin, followed by a typhus-like fever and eruption, 
and a considerable mortality. 

Similar fevers have been described as occurring 
in the Philippines, Tonquin, and Corea. In the 
Corean cases no mention is made of the initial ulcer. 

Endemic glandular fever. Recently, several 
writers in Australia have described a peculiar form 
of glandular fever endemic in the Mossman district 
of North Queensland, and occurring among natives 
and whites of both sexes and all ages, and particularly 
in manual labourers. It is characterized by an 
irregular remittent fever of from three days' to three 
weeks' duration, non-suppurating swellings of the 
lymphatic glands, especially those of the axilla and 
groin, a macular and, occasionally, a vesicular rash, 
and an incubation period of from six to ten days. 
The mortality is very low 1 per cent. The disease 
does not spread in hospital, but is transmissible to 
monkeys by blood inoculation. 

An insect transmitter is conjectured, but nothing 
positive is known about the etiology of the disease. 

Diagnosis of imperfectly differentiated 
fevers. The diagnosis of these fevers is always a 
difficult matter, especially so during their early stages. 
Among other possibilities that of typhoid, of undu- 
lant (Mediterranean) fever, of malaria, of kala-azar, 
of dengue, of influenza, and of other infections has to 
be considered. The persistent absence from the blood 
of the malaria parasite and of pigmented leucocytes 
if vouched for by an experienced observer and the 
negative results attending administration of quinine, 
together with the absence of definite periodicity in 



xxin] DOUBTFUL FEVERS 391 

the symptoms, of pronounced anaemia and of marked 
enlargement of the spleen, should be decisive against 
malaria. But in the present state of our knowledge 
it is very hard indeed, until the case is well advanced, 
to exclude typhoid, paratyphoid, and undulant fever. 
It may be that further experience of the blood -serum 
tests will establish their title to be regarded as 
absolutely pathognomonic signs. In this event the 
practitioner will have in his possession an invaluable 
aid in the diagnosis of tropical fevers. As things are 
at present, in cases in which there is the slightest 
doubt it is an excellent rule to regard all doubtful 
fevers as being possibly typhoid. 

Treatment. It is well at the commencement 
of doubtful tropical fevers to be as guarded in treat- 
ment as in diagnosis, and to eschew active purgatives, 
to enjoin rest in bed, to place the patient on a bland, 
unstimulating fluid diet, and to confine medication to 
some innocent fever mixture. There is no specific 
treatment for any of these imperfectly differentiated 
fevers. Each case has to be dealt with on its own 
merits and on general principles. Headache may be 
relieved by cold applications to the forehead, by an 
ice-cap, or, especially if temperature rises high, by 
sponging and, if not otherwise contraindicated, by 
occasional doses of phenacetin or some similar drug. 
If quinine, on the supposition that the case is malarial, 
has been freely tried, and without benefit, it must not 
be persisted with. As already hinted, "low fever" 
should be treated by change of air, and more 
especially, where feasible, by a sea trip. 



CHAPTER XXIV 
. HEAT-STROKE 

THE term " heat-stroke " conveys the suggestion that 
heat is the leading etiological factor in the various 
morbid conditions which custom has grouped under 
this and similar names. 

Until irrefutable evidence has clearly demonstrated 
the true cause of any given disease, it is a very grave 
error to base the name of such disease on some -crude 
hypothetical etiological conception. Such a nomen- 
clature is sure to lead to confusion, to mistakes in 
practice, and to retard progress. There is no better 
illustration of the truth of this remark than that 
supplied by the group of diseases under consideration. 

The expression "heat-stroke" covers several 
distinct, one might say of two of them almost 
opposite, clinical conditions. One of these is heat- 
exhaustion, virtually a syncope, which may occur 
anywhere and in any climate, high atmospheric 
temperature, whether natural or artificial, being its 
essential etiological factor. The other, of which 
hyperpyrexia is the most striking clinical feature, 
is a well-defined and possibly specific fever, having a 
peculiar endemicity and assuming at times in the 
endemic area almost epidemic characters. Like 
yellow fever, dengue, tropical elephantiasis, and other 
tropical diseases, this second form of heat-stroke occurs 
only in conditions of high atmospheric temperature ; 
but, as with these diseases, it by no means follows 
that, though occurring in high temperature, it is 
caused by high temperature. To obviate confusion, 
and following the example of Sambon, I shall describe 
this disease under its ancient name siriasis. 

Besides these two well-defined morbid states 
associated with high atmospheric temperatures there 
is another but ill-defined group of heat-stroke cases 
392 



HEAT-EXHAUSTION 393 

which, to all appearance, result exclusively from ex- 
posure to the direct rays of the sun. These cases 
might be classified under the term sun-traumatism. 

Although not all of them are strictly classifiable as 
fevers, in deference to . custom and for convenience I 
shall describe these three phases of so-called "heat- 
stroke " in this place and as a group. 

HEAT-EXHAUSTION 

Definition. Sudden faintness, or fainting, 
brought about by exposure to high atmospheric 
temperature. 

Etiology The healthy human body, when 
untrammelled by unsuitable clothing, when not 
exhausted by fatigue or excesses, when not clogged 
by surfeit of food, by alcoholic drinks or by drugs, 
can support with impunity very high atmospheric 
temperatures. In many parts of the world men live 
and work out of doors in temperatures of 100 or 
even of 1 20 F. Many industries are carried on at tem- 
peratures far above this ; glass-blowing, sugar-boiling, 
for example. The stokers of steamers, especially in 
the tropics, discharge for hours their arduous duties 
in a temperature often over 150 F. 

When, however, the physiological activities have 
become impaired by disease, especially by heart 
disease, kidney, liver, or brain disease, by malaria, by 
alcoholic or other excesses, by fatigue, by living in 
overcrowded rooms ; or when the body is oppressed 
by unsuitable clothing ; or in the presence of a com- 
bination of some of these, then high atmospheric 
temperatures are badly supported, the innervation 
of the heart may fail, and syncope may ensue. 
Chevers, than whom few have had better oppor- 
tunities of forming a sound opinion, speaking of 
this subject, says : " Numerous as the constitutional 
causes of heat-strokes are, all Indian experience 
combines to show that drunkenness is the chief." 
The tropical practitioner will do well to bear this 
remark in mind ; it applies not only to heat- 
exhaustion, but also to all forms of disease grouped 
under the term "heat-stroke." 
N* 



394 SIRIASIS [CHAP. 

Heat-exhaustion, then, is one form of what, when 
the subject of it happens at the time to be exposed 
to the sun, is called "sun-stroke," or when the patient 
happens to be at the time under cover, is called " heat- 
stroke." In nine cases out of ten this sun-stroke, or 
heat-stroke, simply means syncope; syncope caused 
by solar or atmospheric heat, or a combination of 
these, acting on a body whose resistance has been 
impaired by disease, or by trying, unphysiological 
conditions. This form of heat-stroke, consequently, 
has no special geographical distribution and no special 
morbid anatomy or pathology. For obvious reasons 
it is most apt to occur in warm weather, and in 
tropical climates ; and on this account its recognition, 
prevention, and treatment have special claims on the 
student of tropical medicine. 

Symptoms. When attacked with heat-ex- 
haustion the patient feels giddy, and perhaps stag- 
gers and. falls. He is pale; his pulse is small, soft, 
and perhaps fluttering ; his breathing is shallow, 
perhaps sighing, never stertorous ; his pupils are 
dilated ; his skin is cold ; his temperature is sub- 
normal ; and he may be partially, more rarely wholly, 
unconscious. Usually after a short time he gradually 
recovers ; very likely with a splitting headache and 
feelings of prostration. In a small proportion of cases 
the faint is not recovered from, and death ensues. 

Treatment. In syncopal heat-stroke the patient 
should be laid at once on his back in a cool, airy, and 
shaded place. His clothes should be loosened, a little 
water dashed on his face and chest, and ammonia 
held to his nostrils. If necessary, a stimulant may 
be given by the mouth, or injected into the rectum 
or hypodermically. It is a mistake to douche these 
cases too freely. The object is rather to stimulate 
than to depress. 

SIRIASIS 

Definition. An acute disease developing in 
the presence of high atmospheric temperature, and 
characterized by sudden incidence of hyperpyrexia, 
coma, and extreme pulmonary congestion. 



xxiv] GEOGRAPHICAL DISTRIBUTION 395 

Nomenclature. This is, perhaps, the most 
important of the several diseases covered by those 
loosely used terms sun-stroke, heat-stroke, coup de 
soleil, insolation, heat-apoplexy, heat-asphyxia, ther- 
mic fever, and so forth. I adopt the name siriasis 
because, whilst distinctive, it embodies no etiological 
theory ; it has the further merit of being the most 
ancient of the many names applied to the disease. 

The geographical distribution of siriasis 
appears to be remarkably restricted. Although it is 
true that this type, or what passes for this type, of 
disease has been reported as occurring in many 
countries, on making careful examination it will be 
found that a large proportion of the reputed cases 
are really examples of other diseases, more especially 
of cerebro-spinal fever, apoplexy, tubercular menin- 
gitis, delirium tremens, pernicious malaria, or some 
other phase of acute disease, but not of true 
siriasis. According to Sambon, hyperpyrexial heat- 
stroke is rigidly confined to certain low-lying, sea- 
coast districts, and to the valleys of certain rivers. 
It is never found in high lands, nor above a relatively 
low altitude 600 feet. 

It is unknown in Europe. The endemic areas 
are in America, the east coast littoral of the United 
States, more especially in the great towns, the Mis- 
sissippi valley, the coast of the Gulf of Mexico, the 
valleys of the Amazon and of the La Plata, and 
the South Atlantic coast ; in Africa, the valley of 
the Nile, the coasts of the Red Sea, and a low-lying 
part of Algeria near Biskra; in Asia, Syria, the 
valleys of the Indus and Ganges, Lower Burma, 
Tonquin, and south-east China ; in Australia, the 
Murray River district, the Queensland coast, and, pos- 
sibly, the plains of Sydney. No doubt it occurs else- 
where in corresponding meteorological and telluric 
conditions ; but many large areas in the tropical 
world, and especially so the interior of continents, 
are exempt from siriasis. It is not met with on 
the high seas, although it is well known on ships 
in the narrow, land-locked Red Sea and the Persian 
Gulf. 



396 SIRIASIS [CHAP. 

Etiology. New-comers to the endemic areas 
and Europeans are more liable than natives or resi- 
dents of long standing. Apparently, long residence 
confers a relative although not an absolute immunity. 

All ages and both sexes are susceptible ; but, in 
consequence of their habits and more frequent ex- 
posure to the predisposing and immediate causes, 
men are more subject to siriasis than are women. 

Predisposing influences similar to those in heat- 
syncope and sun-traumatism powerfully influence 
the liability to siriasis. Amongst these are all 
physiological depressants ; notably intemperance, 
fatigue, overcrowding, unsuitable clothing, malaria, 
acute disease, and, also, chronic organic diseases of 
the important viscera. 

Siriasis has generally been attributed to a direct 
action of atmospheric or solar heat on the body. 
Many theories of the modus operandi of this assumed 
cause have been advanced. Among these may be 
mentioned superheating of the blood by the high tem- 
perature of the surrounding atmosphere ; paralysis 
of the thermic centres causing (a) over-production 
of heat, or (b) retention of body-heat; pressure on 
the brain by expansion from heating of the cerebro- 
spinal fluid ; vaso-motor paresis ; paresis of the heart 
ganglia \ excess of carbonic acid in the blood ; coagu- 
lation of myosin ; suppression of sweat ; deficient 
serosity of the blood from excessive sweating, and 
so forth. 

It is well known that neither high atmospheric 
temperature per se, nor high bodily temperature, 
unless the latter be associated with some special 
toxins, gives rise to symptoms at all like those of 
siriasis. Considering these two facts, and at the 
same time the peculiar and capricious distribution of 
the disease, the circumstances that its prevalence 
curve does not always correspond with the atmo- 
spheric temperature curve ; that the degree of 
prevalence varies in the endemic area from year to 
year \ that it is not most prevalent in the hottest 
years, seasons, or places ; that it becomes epidemic 
at times ; that it runs a definite course ; that it may 



xxiv] SYMPTOMS 397 

relapse; that in many instances it has definite pre- 
monitory symptoms ; that it has peculiar lesions ; 
and that it tends to terminate by crisis ; in other 
words, that it behaves like pneumonia or any other 
specific fever Sambon has boldly asserted that siriasis 
is a germ disease, like yellow fever or dengue, and, 
like these, is caused by some organism which demands 
for its development a high atmospheric temperature 
and certain, as yet unknown, local conditions. Time 
will show how far this hypothesis is correct. In my 
opinion it has more in its favour than any of the 
many theories that have been based on a purely 
thermic etiology. 

Symptoms. Though sometimes coming on sud- 
denly during exposure to the sun, siriasis is very 
often preceded by a distinct prodromal stage. It is 
frequently developed independently of any direct 
exposure to the sun; not seldom the attack comes 
on during the night. 

Among prodromata which may show themselves 
with greater or less distinctness for an hour or two 
or even for a day or two before the full development 
of the attack, may be mentioned great disinclina- 
tion for exertion, pains in the limbs, drowsiness, 
vertigo, headache, mental confusion, sighing, anorexia, 
thirst, intolerance of light sometimes accompanied 
by chromatic aberrations of vision, suffused eyes, 
nausea and perhaps vomiting, prsecordial anxiety, 
sometimes a sense of impending calamity, an hys- 
terical tendency to weep, a very hot dry skin, and a 
quickened pulse. Longmore called attention to ex- 
cessive irritability of the bladder as a common 
prodromal symptom. This is a valuable and easily 
recognized danger-signal when present, and one the 
significance of which has been confirmed and empha- 
sized by subsequent writers ; it is possible, however, 
that its frequency has been exaggerated. 

Though generally present in greater or less degree, 
and for a longer or shorter time, in many instances 
these prodromal symptoms are not remarked, the 
first indication of anything wrong being perhaps a 
short stage of restlessness, or possibly of wild 



398 SIRIASIS [CHAP. 

delirium. This brief preliminary stage rapidly cul- 
minates in coma, complete unconsciousness, and high 
fever, quickly passing into hyperpyrexia. 

Wood thus describes the symptoms of the deve- 
loped attack : " Total insensibility was always present, 
with, in rare instances, delirium of the talkative 
form, and still more rarely the capability of being 
roused by shaking or shouting. The breathing was 
always affected, sometimes rapid, sometimes deep and 
laboured, often stertorous, and not rarely accom- 
panied by the rattle of mucus in the trachea. The 
face was often deeply suffused, sometimes with the 
whole face deeply cyanosed. The conjunctiva was 
often injected, the pupils various sometimes dilated, 
sometimes nearly normal, sometimes contracted. The 
skin was always intensely hot, and generally, but not 
always, dry; when not dry it was bathed in a pro- 
fuse perspiration. The intense burning heat of the 
skin, both as felt by the hand and measured by the 
thermometer, was one of the most marked features of 
the cases. The degree of heat reached during life 
was, in my cases, mostly 108-109 F. The pulse 
was always exceedingly rapid, and early in the disease 
often wanting in force and volume ; later it became 
irregular, intermittent, and thready. The motor 
nervous system was profoundly affected. Subsultus 
tendinum was a very common symptom ; great rest- 
lessness was also very often present, and sometimes 
partial spasms or even violent general convulsions. 
The latter were at times epileptiform, occurring spon- 
taneously; or they were tetanoid, and excited by 
the slightest irritation. Sometimes the spinal cord 
appeared to be paralysed, the patient absolutely not 
moving." 

The pupils, unless immediately before death, 
when along with the other sphincters they relax, 
are contracted. The reflexes are partially or wholly 
in abeyance. There may also be, especially in the 
graver cases, free watery purging, the dejecta, as 
well as the skin of the patient, emitting a peculiar 
and distinctive mousy odour. The scanty urine may 
contain blood corpuscles, albumin, and casts. 



xxiv] SYMPTOMS 399 

Different writers mention a number of what may 
be described as minor symptoms. They vary in 
different cases, and are by no means always present 
or characteristic. Whether these minor symptoms 
are present or not, in siriasis the essential symptoms 
high fever and profound nervous disturbance, gener- 
ally associated with insensibility are invariably in 
eviclence. 

Unless active measures to lower temperature are 
taken early in the progress of the case, and unless 
these measures are vigorously carried out, in the great 
majority of instances death will occur within a few 
hours, or even minutes, of the onset of insensibility. 
The immediate cause of death is generally the failure 
of respiration. Rarely do cases linger for a day or 
two. Partial recovery is sometimes followed by re- 
lapse. In favourable cases the disease usually ter- 
minates by crisis. Convalescence is rapid. 

Mortality. As might be supposed, some types 
of heat-stroke are much more dangerous than others ; 
siriasis infinitely more so than ordinary heat-ex- 
haustion. Treatment, if early instituted and judi- 
ciously carried out, has undoubtedly a powerful 
influence in reducing mortality. Taking one type 
of heat-stroke with another, the case mortality among 
English troops in India is about one in four ; in 
the year 1892, of 223 European soldiers admitted to 
hospital for heat-stroke, 61 died. 

Morbid anatomy. A notable feature in fatal 
siriasis is the early appearance of rigor mortis. The 
blood is remarkably fluid, or but feebly clotted. 
The venous system is loaded, dark fluid blood pour- 
ing from the phenomenally engorged lungs and other 
viscera on section. Both blood and muscles are said 
to yield an acid reaction more or less pronounced. 
It has been stated that the red blood-corpuscles are 
crenated, and do not form rouleaux. If the post- 
mortem examination is made shortly after death and 
before decomposition changes have set in, the heart 
in early rigor mortis, particularly the left ventricle, 
will be found to be remarkably rigid ; this rigidity is 
sometimes described as being of woodeny hardness. 



400 SIRIASIS 

There may be some venous congestion of the meninges, 
but the brain itself shows no important vascular, or 
naked-eye, changes. The intestinal mucosa, as well 
as that of the stomach, is swollen and exhibits patches 
of congestion. 

Pathology. As may be gathered from the 
remarks on etiology, the pathology of siriasis, so far, 
is in a very unsettled state, and will continue to be 
so until the essential cause of the disease has been 
finally determined. 

Diagnosis. The presence of high fever is suffi- 
cient to differentiate siriasis from sudden insensibility 
caused by uraemia, by diabetic coma, by alcoholic and 
opium poisoning, and by all similar toxic conditions. 
Cerebral haemorrhage, particularly pontine, may, after 
some hours, be followed by high temperature ; but 
here the febrile condition follows the insensibility, 
whereas in heat-stroke the febrile condition precedes 
insensibility. The diagnosis from a cerebral malarial 
attack may be very difficult ; chief reliance has to be 
placed on the history if obtainable, on the condition 
of the spleen, and, especially, on the result of micro- 
scopical examination of the blood. Malarial fevers, 
and the early stages of the eruptive fevers in children, 
are very apt to be regarded as heat-stroke, particularly 
if there has been recent exposure to a hot sun. 
Cerebro-spinal fever, so often mistaken for siriasis, 
may be recognized by the occipital retraction, the 
irregular pupils, the frequent occurrence of strabismus, 
the comparatively low and fluctuating temperature, 
the associated herpes, the initial rigor, and its long 
duration. 

Treatment. In all fulminating fevers, including 
siriasis, occurring in warm climates, if malaria be sus- 
pected, particularly if the parasite be discovered in 
the blood, quinine should be injected intravenously or 
intramuscularly at once (7 to 10 grains of the bihydro- 
chloride), or given by enema as directed under Malaria 
(p. 125) ; this dose should bo repeated three or four 
times at intervals of four hours. In every case of 
siriasis, whether it has been deemed advisable to 
administer quinine or not, attention must at once be 



xxiv] TREATMENT 401 

given to reduce temperature by such rapidly acting 
measures as the cold bath, or ice applied in various 
ways to the head and body. Antipyretic drugs are of 
very little service, even if, in consequence of their 
depressing action on the heart, they be not actually 
dangerous; in all serious cases of siriasis such drugs 
must be carefully avoided. Chandler, speaking from 
an experience of 197 cases in which the mortality 
amounted only to 12, gives some excellent rules for 
the management of hyperpyrexial cases. He directs 
that the patient be placed undressed on a stretcher, 
the head end of which is raised slightly so as to facili- 
tate the escape of involuntary evacuations and to 
provide for drainage. A thermometer is kept in the 
rectum. The body is covered with a sheet upon which 
are laid numerous small pieces of ice, larger pieces 
being closely packed about the head. Iced water is 
then allowed to drip for thirty or forty minutes on 
the patient from drippers hung at an elevation of from 
five to ten feet. A fine stream of iced water poured 
on the forehead from an elevation will act as a 
stimulant and rouser ; this is a very powerful measure, 
and must not be kept up for longer than one or two 
minutes. A hypodermic injection of 40 minims of 
tincture of digitalis is given as soon as possible, its 
administration being preceded, in the case of plethoric 
patients showing much arterial tension (but not other- 
wise), by a small bleeding. The application of cold 
should be at once discontinued so soon as the thermo- 
meter in the rectum has sunk to 104 F., or, in cases 
of simple thermic fever in which the temperature 
has not exceeded 106, when it has fallen to 102. 
If these powerful antipyretic measures are carried 
beyond this point the fall of temperature may con- 
tinue below the normal, even to as low as 91, and 
dangerous collapse ensue. 

On discontinuance of the iced sheet the patient 
should be wrapped in a blanket, and hot bottles 
applied to limbs and trunk. Very likely perspiration, 
a very favourable sign, will then set in. Stimu- 
lants may now be necessary. Strychnine, owing 
to the marked tendency to convulsions that is 



402 SUN-TRAUMATISM [CHAP. 

present in heat-stroke, must on no account be used 
as a cardiac stimulant. Convulsions are best con- 
trolled by cautious chloroform inhalations. As 
death in heat-stroke generally results from failure 
of respiration, Chandler strongly recommends arti- 
ficial respiration when the breathing threatens to 
become suspended ; he claims to have obtained some 
marvellous results from this expedient. It should be 
kept up for half an hour or longer. 

During convalescence great care must be exercised 
to shield the patient from all influences calculated to 
provoke relapse. 

SUN-TRAUMATISM 

There is a large, ill-defined, and dimcult-to-define 
class of heat-stroke cases which belong neither to 
the category of heat-exhaustion nor to the very 
definite and possibly specific disease just described. 
The morbid phenomena in this class of sun-induced 
disease are attributable, apparently, to a peculiar 
physical action of the direct rays of the sun on the 
tissues. To this category belong, it seems to me, those 
sudden deaths occurring without warning during, and 
manifestly in consequence of, exposure to the sun. 
Such may have been the sudden deaths described by 
Parkes, Maclean, Fayrer and others, in which soldiers 
in the excitement and stress of battle, while oppressed 
with thick clothing and heavy accoutrements and 
exposed to a blazing sun, suddenly fell forward on 
their faces and, after a few convulsive gasps, died. 
In these instantaneously fatal cases the paralysis of 
the heart or respiration seems to be of the nature of 
shock, as from a blow or other sudden and violent 
impression on the encephalon. 

Doubtless, indeed it is a well-known fact, the 
strain undergone in these and similar circumstances 
may, in some instances, causa an apoplexy or rupture 
of some description in tissues prepared for such a 
cataclysm by morbid degenerations of long standing. 

Besides the foregoing there is another type of case 
in which, after prolonged exposure to the sun, a febrile 
condition is established. This is sometimes of great 



xxiv] PATHOGENESIS 403 

severity, being characterized by intense headache, a 
rapid full pulse, a pungent dry skin, intolerance of 
light, sound, and movement, and occasionally by 
vomiting or delirium. This condition suggests menin- 
geal congestion, possibly inflammation. The acute 
phase may be quickly recovered from, or it may 
prove very persistent and last for days or weeks. It 
may leave no injurious effects ; or it may be followed 
by a variety of transient or more permanent morbid 
nervous phenomena. Among the sequelae authors 
have mentioned tremor, loss of memory, amaurosis, 
deafness, various paretic conditions, epilepsy, insanity, 
persistent headache, recurring headache, dyspeptic 
conditions. How far these sequelae are entirely 
attributable to sun-exposure, or how far they depend 
on other diseases, as syphilis for example, the local 
cerebral manifestations of which may have been 
provoked, though not actually caused, by the sun- 
traumatism, it is not always easy to say. 

The morbid anatomy, as well as the clinical 
symptoms, indicates meningitis as a feature of these 
instances of reputed sun-traumatism. Authors refer 
to thickenings and opacities of the meninges, and 
even to thickening and roughening of the calvarium. 

Many speculations have been advanced as to the 
patbogenesis. Manifestly it is not altogether, if at 
all, a question of caloric, for such effects do not result 
from exposure to the heat of a furnace, however 
intense. There appears to be some special element 
in the solar spectrum capable of injuriously affecting 
the tissues, particularly if they have not become 
gradually habituated to sun-exposure. That some 
such element does exist is proved by the phenomena 
of sun-erythema, of that form of skin pigmentation 
known as sun-burning, and, possibly, of leucodermia. 
The sensation of distress brought on by exposure to 
a hot sun, which is quite a different sensation from 
that produced by the heat of a fire, points in the 
same direction. In this connection we are forcibly 
reminded of the phenomena of the actinic rays of the 
solar spectrum, and of the remarkable tissue changes 
induced by the Kontgen rays. 



404 HEAT-STROKE [CHAP. 

Treatment. Patients suffering from sim-trau 
matism must be kept as quiet as possible in a cool, 
airy, and darkened room. For a time the head 
should be kept shaved, and cold applied to the scalp. 
The bowels must be free ; food should be light and 
unstimulating, and alcohol in every form strictly for- 
bidden. Restlessness and insomnia are best treated 
by the bromides. For a considerable time the patient 
will be conscious of loss of memory, and feebleness 
of intellectual power and of the faculty of concentra- 
tion. He may be irritable, liable to headache, and 
extremely sensitive to heat more particularly the 
heat and glare of the sun. So soon as he is able to 
be moved he must be sent to a cold climate, and 
there remain until all trace of his illness has com- 
pletely disappeared. Indeed, it is questionable if 
the subject of pronounced sun-trauma should ever 
again risk the dangers of a tropical climate ; certain 
it is that he should not return to the tropics so 
long as the slightest evidence of cerebral trouble 
remains. 

For persistent headache and other signs of chronic 
meningitis, courses of the iodides and bromides, 
repeated blistering of the neck and scalp, together 
with careful dieting and general hygiene, should be 
tried. In not a few instances, in spite of the most 
careful treatment, medicinal and climatic, serious 
permanent disease of the encephalon remains, giving 
rise to various and often incurable troubles, and, very 
commonly, to distressing intellectual enfeeblement. 

PREVENTION OF HEAT-STROKE 

In heat-stroke climates great attention should 
be paid to the general health ; if this be not satis- 
factory, exposure to the sun and to high tempera- 
tures must, so far as possible, be avoided. Alcoholic 
drinks, gluttony, excess of animal food, too much 
tobacco -smoking in fact, dissipation of all sorts 
are especially to be deprecated. Individuals suffer- 
ing from malarial or other fevers, or from chronic 
liver or kidney disease, run great risk if they are 
careless about exposing themsehestothesun. Violent 



xxiv] PKEVENTION 405 

exercise, excessive fatigue, want of sleep, constipation, 
are also to be avoided. 

Clothing ought to be light and loose fitting, the 
under-garment being of thin woollen material. In 
going out in the sun the head must be protected by 
a wide -brimmed, well-ventilated pith hat shielding 
the temples and neck as well as the top of the head. 
An actinic theory of sun-traumatism, advocated many 
years ago by Maude and Duncan, and more recently by 
Sarnbon,* indicates the necessity for a radical change 
in the colour of the dress materials now in vogue 
among Europeans in the tropics. The natives of 
warm climates invariably have dark skins a natural 
provision of protection against the actinic rays of 
the solar spectrum. Exposure to the sun tans the 
European ; a natural protective reaction. Therefore 
the European in the tropics, conformably to this 
hint from Nature, should invariably wear non-actinic 
colours a red or yellow shirt, or a fabric (solaro) into 
which these colours enter, and such as is now manu- 
factured. The sun-hat should be similarly guarded. 
Experience has shown the comfort and value of such 
an arrangement. A pad of cotton sewn into the back 
of the coat in such a way as to protect the spine is 
a wise measure, and one adopted by experienced 
sportsmen in India. Puntone, who has shown by 
an ingenious experiment that the human cranium is 
diathermal to the yellow-red and ultra-violet rays 
but absorbs the red and green-blue rays, recommends 
green clothing covered with white material to protect 
important parts, more especially head, neck, and 
spine. The phenomena connected with the Rontgen 
rays suggest the possibility that there may be solar 
rays other than the ordinary heat and actinic rays 
which, although they may be able to pass through 
organic materials, can nevertheless be arrested by 
metals. If this be true for the sun as well as for 
the Rontgen rays, a useful addition to the sun-hat 
would be a thin plate of some light metal placed 
between the layers of pith constituting the basis of 
the ordinary solar topee. A sheet of tinfoil or other 
* Journ. of Trop. Med., Feb. 15, March 1, 1907. 



406 HEAT-STKOKE 

light metal would not perceptibly add to the weight 
of the head-gear. Such sun-hats are, I believe, now 
manufactured. A white umbrella, lined with green 
or orange, ought never to be despised. Tinted (smoke 
colour) goggles are probably a protection, as they 
certainly are a great comfort in mitigating solar 
glare. 

Rooms should be kept dark during the day, and 
cooled by means of punkahs, thermantidotes, tatties, 
Venetians, and other contrivances. In barracks and 
ships there must be no overcrowding. In very 
hot weather European soldiers should, if possible, 
sleep under punkahs. Military drills should be 
reduced to a minimum, and take place in the cool of 
the morning only, and after the soldier has had a 
cup of tea or coffee and some light food. Marches 
should be short, interrupted by frequent halts, and 
be got through, if possible, in the early morning. 
While marching the men ought to be in open order, 
relieved of all unnecessary weights, belts and cloth- 
ing, and well supplied with water. Camps should 
be pitched in cool and airy spots and on turf and 
under large spreading trees free from undergrowth. 
Double canvas, one layer of which should be non- 
actinic, and grass or boughs laid on the wall of 
the tent, will do much to mitigate the temperature 
within. 



Section IL GENERAL DISEASES OF 

UNDETERMINED NATURE 

CHAPTER XXV 

BERIBERI (KAKKE, BARBIERS) 

Definition. Beriberi is a form of multiple peripheral 
neuritis occurring endemically, or as an epidemic, 
in most tropical and sub-tropical climates, and also, 
under certain conditions, in more temperate latitudes. 
The mortality is considerable, death usually depending 
on heart paresis. 

Historical. The special nature of beriberi was 
recognized by the Dutch in the early years of their 
intercourse with the East. Later, it was studied by 
British physicians in India, particularly by Malcom 
sen, Carter, Waring, and Morehead. It was not until 
a more recent epidemic in Brazil that beriberi began 
to receive attention from the present generation of 
medical men ; and only when Anderson, Simmons, 
Scheube, and Baelz took up the subject in Japan 
was it studied by modern methods, accurately defined, 
and its true pathology apprehended. Scheube and 
Baelz were the first to show distinctly that beriberi 
is of the nature of a peripheral neuritis similar 
to that of diphtheria and alcohol a view which was 
subsequently confirmed and adopted by Pekelharing 
and Winkler, and by most subsequent observers. 
More recently, and mainly owing to the investigations 
of Eijkman, Braddon, Fraser, and Stanton, its prin- 
cipal it may not be the only etiological factor has 
been shown to be a dietary of which the staple in- 
gredient is over-milled rice. 

Geographical distribution. The area of 
the endemic distribution of beriberi is coextensive, 

407 



408 BERIBERI [CHAP. 

probably, with the tropical and sub-tropical belts ; 
doubtless it exists in many places where its presence 
is not generally suspected. It is the scourge of 
many of the mines and plantations of the Malay and 
Eastern Archipelago. It is apt to break out among 
the coolie gangs engaged on extensive engineering 
works in the tropics, such as the Panama Canal or 
the Congo Railway. It haunts the Dutch army in 
Sumatra, and used to be common enough in the 
British armies in India. It is at home in many parts 
of Japan, particularly in her large, low-lying, damp, 
overcrowded cities. It occurs in China, the Philippines, 
the Eastern Peninsula, India, and Africa. It is prone 
to break out in gaols, in schools, in ships. Some- 
times, as an epidemic wave, it passes over a tropical 
country, as was the case in the early 'sixties in 
Brazil, where it still lingers. Sometimes sporadic 
cases crop up here and there. Generally, when it 
appears in a community, it attacks large numbers, 
picking out particular houses and districts. Lately 
we had an account of a small epidemic among a 
group of Western Australian natives, and also among 
Chinese on the eastern seaboard of Australia, a con- 
tinent where beriberi was formerly supposed not 
to exist. Similarly it appeared, apparently for the 
first time, in Japanese immigrants in Fiji. Some 
time ago I saw a case having the history and clini- 
cal features of beriberi from Lake Nyasa, another 
from the Upper Congo, another from Hayti. We 
hear of it also from Havana, from New Caledonia, 
from the Sandwich Islands, from Uganda all of them 
places not before known to be liable to this disease 
so that the area of distribution is an extensive one. 
Indeed, within the last few years it would seem that 
it includes the temperate as well as the tropical zones. 
Not long ago beriberi showed itself in a lunatic asylum 
in Ireland Richmond Asylum, Dublin ; and appar- 
ently the same disease has been seen lately in lunatic 
asylums in the United States and in France, and also 
among the fishermen on the North American coast. 

Symptoms. Medical visitors to the native 
hospitals in many parts of the tropical world are 



xxv] 



SYMPTOMS 



409 



likely to have their attention arrested by the large 
proportion of cases of partial paraplegia, of cases of 
oedema of the legs, and of cases of general dropsy. 
These, for the most part, are cases of beriberi. 

Paraplegic cases. On examining one of the para- 
plegic cases referred 
to (Fig. 74), it will be 
found that, besides 
paraplegia of greater 
or lesser degree, there 
is a certain amount 
of anaesthesia or of 
numbness of the skin ; 
particularly of the 
skin over the front of 
the tibiae, the dorsa 
of the feet, the sides 
of the thighs, perhaps 
also of the finger-tips, 




and of one or two 
areas on the arms 
and trunk. The visi- 
tor may be struck 
with the thinness of 
the patient's calves, 
the flabby state of 
the gastrocnemii; and 
by the fact that if, 
whilst making the ex- 
amination, he should 
handle these and the 
neighbouring muscles 
somewhat roughly, 
particularly if he 
should squeeze them 
against the underlying bones, the patient will call 
out in pain and try to drag the limb away. The 
thigh muscles may be found to be similarly affected, 
and so may the thenar, the hypothenar, and the 
arm muscles ; like the calf muscles, these too may 
be wasted and flabby. Very probably there is a loss 
of fat as well, the panniculus adiposus being every- 



Fig. 74. Paraplegic beriberi. (Bentley.) 



410 BEEIBEEI [CHAP. 

where very meagre. If tested electrically, the muscles 
exhibit to perfection the reaction of degeneration. If 
the knee reflex be tested in the usual way, after the 
first week of the disease there will be no response 
whatever; nor can any clonus be elicited. As a 
rule, all the deep reflexes are lost; but the super- 
ficial reflexes, unless in extreme conditions of paresis 
and muscular atrophy, are usually present and more 
or less active. If, in severe cases, the patient is set 
to button his jacket or to pick up a pin, possibly he 
has a difficulty about it, or perhaps he cannot; he 
may bungle and fumble like an advanced ataxic. 

There is more than ataxia, however ; for the hand 
grasp is so enfeebled that the patient may have a 
difficulty in holding his rice bowl as well as in 
feeding himself. There is no tremor of the hands ; 
and never or very rarely is there any paresis of 
the ocular muscles, or of the muscles of the face, of 
mastication, of the tongue, or of the pharynx. The 
sphincters and bladder operate satisfactorily, and 
the functions of the alimentary canal are carried on 
fairly well, although there is often some dyspeptic 
distension and oppression after food. On the patient 
being got out of bed and started to walk, if he is able 
to progress at all, his gait will be markedly ataxic ; 
but he is not ataxic merely, for, just as with the 
hands, it will "be seen that, in addition to want of 
co-ordinating power, there is great muscular weak- 
ness. If he is laid on the bed and asked to raise his 
legs, he is perhaps hardly able to get them off the 
mat, to cross them, or to place them one foot on top of 
the other. Yery probably he is the subject of marked 
ankle-drop, so that he drags his toes when he attempts 
in walking to advance the foot ; he has therefore to 
raise the foot very high, letting it fall on the ground 
with a flop when he brings it down again. His ataxia 
and his muscular weakness, as well as the partial 
anaesthesia from which he suffers, force him to adopt 
a variety of devices to assist him in progression 
(Fig. 75). Manifestly these patients are suffering 
from some form of peripheral neuritis. 

The general health is good for the most part; 



xxv] SYMPTOMS 411 

the tongue is clean, the bowels are fairly regular, 
there is no fever, and there is nothing amiss with the 
urine. Digestion, assimilation, and excretion go on 
satisfactorily. 




Fig. 75. Paraplegic beriberi. (Bentky.) 

The heart and circulation. When the heart is 
examined, if the case be at all recent or moderately 
severe, attention is at once arrested. On inspection 
it may be remarked that the impulse is diffuse, that 
there is epigastric pulsation; that the carotids throb 
too violently; that there is that peculiar wobbling, 



412 BERIBERI [CHAP. 

pulsating movement in the jugulars that denotes 
tricuspid insufficiency. On percussion the praecordial 
area is frequently found to be enlarged, perhaps very 
greatly enlarged, especially to the right; and on 
auscultation loud bruits, usually systolic in rhythm, 
may be heard. Marked reduplication of the sounds, 
particularly of the second sound, is to be noted. 
The auscultator may be struck, in a large proportion 
of cases, by the peculiar spacing of the intervals 
between the sounds. It may be hardly possible to 
tell by the ear alone which is the first pause and 
which is the second. They seem alike in point of 
duration; so that the sounds of the heart are, like 
the beats of a well-hung pendulum clock, evenly 
spaced, and not, as they are in health, separated by a 
long and a short interval like the beats of a badly hung 
clock. It will also be observed that the heart is very 
irritable, becoming easily quickened by exertion. It 
will be judged, therefore, that, in addition to peripheral 
neuritis, there is serious disease in the circulatory 
system, particularly in its innervation; that there is 
dilatation of the right side of the heart; and that 
there is a state of relaxed arterial tension. 

All these signs and symptoms vary in degree from 
time to time in the same case, and differ in degree in 
different cases. 

Dropsical cases. In the next bed, perhaps, to the 
patient whose picture I have tried to draw may be 
seen another man suffering from apparently quite 
a different affection (Fig. 76). He is propped up in 
bed. Instead of being thin and wasted, as the last 
patient, his face is puffy and heavy ; his lips possibly 
are slightly cyanosed; and his arms, hands, trunk, 
legs, and feet are distended with oedema. It may be 
thought from the oedema that it is a case of acute 
nephritis ; but an examination of the scanty, dark- 
coloured urine shows that it is of high specific gravity, 
and contains no albumin, or only a mere trace ; so 
that the case cannot be one of acute Bright's disease. 
Careful observation will discover that the oedema is 
somewhat firmer than that of nephritis, and, in not a 
few instances, that it does not involve the scrotum. 



xxv] 



SYMPTOMS 



413 



Occasionally cases are met with in which the oedema 
is peculiarly localized and fugitive. If attention is 
directed to the heart, a 
bruit and other evidences 
of dilatation of the organ 
and of arterial relaxa- 
tion, just as in the first 
case, are discovered. If 
the lungs be examined, 
one may or may not 
discover signs of single 
or double hydrothorax, 
although, probably, not 
to a very great ex- 
tent. The lungs them- 
selves are healthy. On 
getting him out of bed 
it is found that the 
patient can hardly walk ; 
partly from breathless- 
ness, partly on account 
of mechanical inter- 
ference by the dropsy 
with the movements of 
the legs, partly, perhaps, 
from some degree of 
paresis. He has ankle- 
drop possibly ; and, if 
firm pressure be brought 
to bear on the calf 
muscles through the 
osdema, signs of hyper- 
sesthesia of the muscles 
may or may not be 
elicited. Knee-jerk is 
probably absent, and 
there is numbness of 
the shins and finger- 
tips. The tongue is 
clean, the appetite fair, and there is no fever. But 
there may be complaint of prsecordial distress ana 
even pain, and, as this is aggravated by a full meal 




414 BERIBERI [CHAF. 

the patient eats sparingly. The amount of urine is 
generally very much reduced to a few ounces even. 

In this patient, therefore, there are the same signs 
of peripheral neuritis and of dilatation of the heart 
as in the other case. In addition, there is a some- 
what firm O3dema, which is not altogether cardiac, but, 
as its character and the circumstances in which it is 
found suggest, is probably connected partly with 
lesion of the nerves regulating urinary excretion, and 
partly with the play of transudation and absorption 
in the connective tissues. 

Mixed paraplegic and dropsical cases. In 
the next bed to this patient there lies, perhaps, 
another case which looks like a mixture of the two 
preceding. There is redema generally somewhat 
firm particularly of the shins and feet, about the 
flanks, sacral region, and, very generally, over the 
sternum and root of the neck. There is numbness 
of the shins, there is some ataxia, there is muscular 
weakness and hyperaesthesia particularly of leg and 
thigh muscles, there is absence of knee-jerks, there is 
probably a cardiac bruit and reduplication of sounds, 
and there are signs of dilatation of the heart and 
relaxed arterial tension. Just as in the other cases, the 
general health of the patient is unaffected, the tongue 
is clean, the urine though scanty is otherwise normal, 
and there is no fever. 

Great variety in degree and combination of 
symptoms. All through the wards of the hospital 
similar cases may be encountered. Some are so 
trifling that they are up and moving about with 
more or less freedom ; and others are so severely 
smitten that they lie like logs in their beds, unable 
to move a limb or perhaps even a finger. Some 
are atrophied to skeletons ; others are swollen out 
with dropsy ; and some show just sufficient dropsy to 
conceal the atrophy the muscles have undergone. 
Although the cranial nerves above the seventh are 
very rarely involved, in some it will be noticed 
that the laryngeal muscles are paralysed, the patient 
being unable to speak above a whisper or to pro- 
duce an explosive cough. In one or two cases the 



xxv] ERRONEOUS DIAGNOSES 415 

abdominal and the perineal muscles may be so pro- 
foundly paralysed that, when cough is attempted, at 
most a husky expiration is produced, whilst the belly 
is bulged forwards and the perineum shot downwards 
by the sudden contraction of the muscles of expiration. 
In practically all cases of over a fortnight's standing 
the knee-jerk and tendo-Achillis reflex are absent ; 
at the very commencement of the disease these deep 
reflexes are exaggerated, gradually disappearing as 
symptoms develop, not to reappear for months, per- 
haps, after the patient is well in all other respects. 

Erroneous diagnoses. The novice in tropical 
medicine will be greatly puzzled for a time over these 
cases. I have seen them called cardiac disease, loco- 
motor ataxia, muscular rheumatism, progressive mus- 
cular atrophy, ascending spinal paralysis, and have 
over and over again seen them relegated to that 
refuge for ignorance malaria, and called " malarial 
rheumatism," or " malarial paralysis, "or, more pedanti- 
cally, "malarial paraplegia," or "malarial neuritis. "* 

If the visitor has the curiosity to examine the 
blood of these patients, possibly in a proportion of 
them he will find microfilarise ; very likely he will 
then think that the cases are forms of filariasis, and 
he may construct theories to explain how the filajria 
produces the symptoms. Or, if he examine the faeces, 
very probably in over 50 per cent, of the cases, or, in 
some countries, in nearly all the cases, he will find 
ova of ankylostomes and, probably, those of the 
whipworm and the roundworm also. On this evidence 
he may conclude that these are cases of ankylosto- 
miasis or other form of helminthiasis. He had better, 
however, not commit himself to such a diagnosis until 
he has ascertained how it fares with the rest of the 
population as regards these parasites ; for he will find 

* Dr. Strachan has described (Practitioner, 1897, p. 477) a 
form of multiple peripheral neuritis which he calls "malarial." 
The disease is endemic, and very common in Jamaica. It differs 
from beriberi inasmuch as it is not attended with oedema, is 
frequently attended with implication of the cranial nerves 
and is rarely fatal. We have no accounts of any similar disease 
from other tropical countries. Probably, therefore, Dr. Strachan's 
neuritis is not malarial, but depends on some cause peculiar, so 
far as known, to Jamaica. The subject requires further study. 



416 BERIBERI [CHAP. 

that the filaria, the ankylostomum, the trichiuris, and 
the ascaris are quite as prevalent outside as inside 
the hospital, and in the healthy as in the sick. 

Past history of patients. On inquiry he will 
learn that most of the cases come from two or three 
centres where similar disease is endemic from some 
particular institution, plantation, mine, or village. He 
will also remark that the same places supply both 
atrophic-paraly tic cases and dropsical-paralytic cases ; 
and he will learn that many of the atrophic cases com- 
menced with dropsical symptoms. From this he will 
make the important deduction that he is dealing, not 
with two diseases, but with two phases or clinical 
forms of the same disease ; a disease which sometimes 
assumes atrophic features, sometimes dropsical features, 
and sometimes is of a mixed character. Some of the 
patients will give a history of fever at the outset of 
their troubles; in some there is a history of indigestion 
or diarrhoea; in some the paralytic or dropsical symp- 
toms developed very slowly ; in others, again, they 
came on rapidly. In some there is a history of a 
similar attack the previous year, or a yearly attack 
for three or four years in succession. Some will tell 
that they have been ill for several months, others 
that they have been ill for a week or two only. 

Uncertain course The visitor will learn that 
this disease, which is beriberi, slowly or rapidly 
declares itself after an incubation period as yet un- 
determined but variously stated as of weeks or months, 
that it may be preceded by a period of intermitting 
languor, aching legs, palpitations, breathlessness, 
slowly advancing oedema of legs or face ; or that the 
patient may wake up some morning and find that 
during the night he has become dropsical or paretic. 
Thus the disease may develop slowly or rapidly. 
Equally uncertain are its progress and danger ; within 
a day or a week, or at any time during its course, it 
may assume fulminating, malignant characters. It 
may completely subside in a few days, or it may drag 
on for months. It may get well apparently and then 
relapse. It may, and generally does, clear up com- 
pletely ; or it may leave a dilated heart, or atrophied 



xxv] PROGRESS OF CASES 417 

limb muscles with corresponding deformity. The 
variety in the severity, progress, and duration of 
beriberi is infinite ; but in all cases the essential 
symptoms are the same greater or less oedema, 
especially over the shins ; muscular feebleness and 
hypersesthesia, especially of the legs ; numbness, espe- 
cially over the front of the shins, of the finger-tips, 
occasionally of the lips ; liability to palpitation from 
cardiac dilatation, and to sudden death from the same 
cause. 

Progress of the cases. As the visitor watches 
the progress of the cases he will be astonished that 
those which he thought examples of locomotor ataxia, 
or of progressive muscular atrophy, or of ascending 
spinal paralysis, gradually improve, begin to walk 
about, and finally quit the hospital quite well. He 
will be astonished to see, after perhaps a profuse 
diuresis, the bloated carcass, that could hardly turn 
itself in bed, rapidly shrivel to little more than skin 
and bone, and assume all the appearances of the 
atrophic cases ; and, later, perhaps after many months, 
to find the patient become rehabilitated, and, in due 
course, walk out of the hospital quite well. He will 
notice that the cardiac bruits come and go ; that the 
degree of dilatation of the heart is subject to fluctu- 
ations ; that what seemed confirmed organic disease 
completely disappears. 

Cardiac attacks. But he will also be aston- 
ished, as he goes his rounds, to see so often empty 
beds where the day before lay men whom he consi- 
dered by no means seriously ill certainly not dying. 
Some day he will come on a patient, whom the pre- 
vious day he thought to be by no means seriously ill, 
actually in extremis. The poor fellow is propped up 
in bed, he is struggling for breath, his face is purple, 
his eyes are starting out of his head, his whole atti- 
tude is expressive of the utmost distress; he has a 
horrible, tearing, boring, crushing pain under his 
sternum and in the epigastrium ; the vessels of his 
neck are throbbing violently, but his pulse is quick, 
small, intermittent, and his extremities are cold. In a 
short time the patient is dead. Some of the fatal cases, 



418 BERIBERI [CHAP. 

he Will note, die quite suddenly as if from syncope ; but 
most die in the distressing way described, evidently 
from paresis and over-distension of the right heart, 
complicated and aggravated by O3dema of the lungs, 
or by diaphragmatic paralysis, by hydrothorax, or by 
hydropericardium. 

Nomenclature and classification of beri- 
beri. For purposes of description, the paralytic- 
atrophic cases are designated " dry beriberi " or beri- 
beria atrophica ; the dropsical cases, " wet beriberi " 
or beriberia hydrops ; and those in which there is a 
combination of both conditions, "mixed beriberi." 
Sometimes the cases are classified according to the 
rapidity of development and gravity of symptoms into 
acute or pernicious, subacute, and chronic. None of 
these classifications is good, seeing that they all refer 
to what is clinically the same disease, and that one form 
may suddenly or more slowly merge into the other. 

.Etiology. Sex, age, occupation, etc. Beriberi 
attacks both sexes. Not uncommon in the breast-fed 
infants of beriberic mothers, it is rare in childhood and 
extreme old age, but occurs at all ages,* its favourite 
age being from about 15 to 30. It affects rich as 
well as poor. It is confined to no particular trade or 
occupation. If anything, it has a predilection for those 
who lead a sedentary life and are much indoors, as 
students, prisoners, and the inmates of hospitals and 
asylums. It is apt to attack pregnant or parturient 
females. It is quite as common in the strong and 
full-blooded as in the weak and anaemic. 

Climatic conditions. In countries in which there 
are a hot and a cold season the epidemic outbreaks 
occur during the former, old cases improving and new 
cases ceasing to crop up during the winter. In countries 
which are hot all the year round, beriberi may appear 
at any time ; most frequently, however, in such cli- 
mates it appears during the rains. Thus it re- 
sembles malaria in being fostered by damp, by high 

* The breast-fed child of a beriberic mother is apt to develop 
the disease. Hirota states that of 52 infants who suffered from 
beriberi while being wet-nursed by beriberic mothers 42 recovered, 
5 died, 5 were not accounted for. In the cases which recovered 
the improvement set in at once on the children being weaned, 



xsv] ETIOLOGY 419 

temperature, and, it has been said, by its most often 
attacking those who sleep on or near the ground. 
As with malaria, though its explosion in any given 
individual residing in the endemic area may be 
solicited by fatigue, chill, privation, and other causes 
of physiological depression, it is not actually caused 
by such circumstances. Unlike malaria, it is common 
enough in the midst of large cities, as well as in 
villages and jungle lands. 

Influence of overcrowding. Overcrowding and 
unhygienic conditions generally seem to favour the 
outbreak, or, possibly, the spread, of beriberi This 
has, perhaps, a good deal to do with its frequency 
and virulence in oriental gaols, schools, mining camps, 
plantation lines, armies, ships. 

Ship beriberi. Unlike malaria, beriberi is common 
in the native crews, more rarely, though occasionally, 
among the European officers and sailors, of ships on 
the high seas and far away from any recent telluric 
influence. The crowding in the damp forecastle and the 
exposure incident to a sailor's life seem to be among the 
reasons, though not the only ones, for ship beriberi. 
Thus, this form of the disease is often seen at the Sea- 
men's Hospitals at the Albert Docks and Greenwich 
among the lascars and sidi-boys of steamers trading to 
India, the disease appearing perhaps months after the 
ships have left the East, sometimes even months after 
they have been lying in the London Docks. Some 
years ago a number of these cases were admitted to 
the Seamen's Hospital at the Albert Docks. I had 
the curiosity to visit one of the ships from which 
several of the patients had been brought. I went into 
the forecastle. Although the weather was mild for 
Englishmen, it was evidently very cold for the half- 
clothed lascars. They had a tire blazing in their 
quarters, every door, scuttle, window, and ventilator 
of which they had carefully closed. The place was 
suffocatingly hot, damp, and redolent of steaming 
humanity. I do not know how many men had 
stowed themselves away with their dirty rags in this 
place, but there was a crowd of them. Several had 
symptoms of beriberi, and were in their bunks. 



420 BERIBERI [CHAP. 

After seeing the forecastle I was taken to a little 
dark cell, an oblong den with a couple of bunks one 
on top of the other, located somewhere in the neigh- 
bourhood of the keel. There was no light or obvious 
means of ventilation, and barely standing room. There 
I found three men sitting on the lowermost bunk, all 
of them suffering from severe beriberi. One of them, 
I afterwards heard, died before morning ; the others 
were sent to hospital just in time, I believe, to save 
their lives. The fact is that some of these epidemics 
of ship beriberi occurring in cold climates are fos- 
tered, though they may be not caused, by the artificial 
conditions which the ignorant lascars are allowed 
to bring about. They feel the cold of the English 
climate so much that, on entering British seas, they 
try to keep their quarters warm by lighting fires and 
stopping up ventilators. By these means they create 
a hot, steamy atmosphere and a sodden state of the 
place they live and sleep in, which is a very good 
imitation of the tropical conditions in which beriberi 
is prone to develop. Although such unhygienic con- 
ditions favour the occurrence of beriberi, they do 
not suffice to produce it; as is proved by the well- 
authenticated circumstance that the disease is very 
common in the European crews of Swedish and Nor- 
wegian ships, which, as compared to British ships, are 
in far better sanitary condition, and yet beriberi is 
comparatively rare in the latter. 

Asylum beriberi. Not very long ago, exactly 
similar conditions to those above described, and with 
similar results, were conduced to by similar circum- 
stances in the Dublin lunatic asylum already alluded 
to. This asylum, built for 1,000 inmates, had 1,500 
crowded into it. Anyone who knows what the 
atmosphere of even a well-regulated and not over- 
crowded dormitory in a lunatic asylum is like can 
imagine what it becomes in warm weather, when 
three patients are lodged in a place barely sufficient 
for two. The heat, the breath vapour condensed 
and streaming down the walls, the effluvia from the 
patients, the closed doors, the barred windows, the 
want of air, and the damp conspire to reproduce 



xxvj ETIOLOGY 21 

the conditions found in the tropics; and it may be 
that when such conditions are reproduced elsewhere, 
even in temperate climates, the result will be just 
the same. 

Although for a long time something had been 
known about the conditions predisposing to beriberi, 
it is only lately that anything like approximately 
accurate knowledge as to the causa causans of the 
disease has been attained. Many hypotheses had 
been advanced on the subject, some plausible enough 
if judged of in the light of the times, others manifestly 
absurd. It is unnecessary to refer at length to these 
exploded theories. Suffice it to say that their authors 
appear for the most part to have been dominated by 
the idea that for the production of a disease some- 
thing in the nature of a germ or of a poison has to be 
introduced into the body ; they overlooked the possi- 
bility of disease being brought about, not by the 
introduction of something foreign or abnormal to the 
body, but by the deprivation of something essential 
for its healthy nutrition. We now know that it is to 
the latter circumstance we have to look for the cause, 
or at least a principal part of the cause, of beriberi. 
Beriberi is a disease of "deficiency," to use the 
expression of Funk. 

It is desirable, in view of the possibility of 
further discovery, somewhat to qualify this statement. 
It is just possible that the condition brought about 
by this deficiency merely predisposes to, or is ne- 
cessary for the operation of, something else, perhaps 
an unknown germ which in the absence of this 
deficiency would remain inoperative even if intro- 
duced. Further, it may be that there are two or 
more diseases included under the term " beriberi," 
each of them acknowledging a different specific cause. 
Indeed there are not a few facts suggestive of such a 
possibility. 

However this may be, thanks to the pioneer work 
of Eijkman, Braddon, Fraser and Stanton,* we now 

* Eijkman was among the first to show scientifically that 
beriberi was connected with a rice dietary. He showed that 
prisoners fed on red rice escaped beriberi, and that those fed on 
white rice were exceedingly prone to the disease. Braddon, 



422 BERIBERI [CHAP. 

know that the beriberi of the Eastern Peninsula, of 
the Eastern Archipelago, of the Philippines, of China 
and Japan is a sequel of a diet into which over- 
milled rice enters as the principal element, that is 
rice from which the entire pericarp and germ have 
been removed ; and that in this pericarp and germ 
there is a substance essential for the proper nutrition 
of the nervous system of man and of many other 
warm-blooded vertebrates. 

If a fowl be fed on paddi exclusively, that is rice 
from which the husk has not been removed, the fowl 
will thrive and very likely gain weight ; but if it be 
fed on a diet exclusively of white rice, that is rice 
from which the pericarp has been completely re- 
moved, it will after a short time show signs of peri- 
pheral neuritis, lose weight, and, if the exclusive diet 
be persisted in, die with all the signs of a multiple 
peripheral neuritis. If a fowl which, in consequence 
of such a diet, has begun to show signs of peripheral 
neuritis be given regularly some of the polishings of 
the rice, that is the dust or remains of the pericarp, 
which had been removed in the process of milling, 

fixing his attention on the remarkable and admitted fact that of 
the various races inhabiting the Malay Peninsula the Chinese are 
infinitely the most subject, the Klings (an immigrant Indian race) 
infinitely the least subject to beriberi, came to the conclusion that 
the excessive liability of the one race and immunity of the other 
are attributable to the difference in the way in which their staple 
food rice is prepared for the market. The Klings live on what 
Braddon calls "cured rice," that is rice which when garnered, 
and before husking, is boiled and dried. The Chinese use " un- 
cured rice," that is rice that is husked without preliminary boil- 
ing. Braddon held that rice (paddi} is liable in certain localities 
to be attacked by a germ which in its multiplication produces a 
toxin, and that this toxin, which is not destroyed by cooking, is 
the cause of beriberi. The germ is destroyed by the boiling to 
which " cured rice " is subjected before husking ; hence the free- 
dom of the Klings from beriberi and the excessive liability of the 
Chinese. That there is no racial insusceptibility in the Klings is 
proved by their being attacked by beriberi when they chance to 
get imprisoned and are placed on the same food as their Chinese 
fellow-prisoners. These views received support from a carefully 
conducted experiment by Fraser and Stanton, who fed a gang of 
coolies on "cured rice" and another gang on " uncured rice," 
both sets of coolies being in other respects under apparently 
identical conditions, with the result that many of those 011 un- 
cured rice sickened with beriberi, whilst those on cured rice 
escaped the disease. 



xxv] ETIOLOGY 423 

it will gradually lose the signs of neuritis, gain in 
weight, and recover. The neuritis polyneuritis gal- 
linarum, as it is called is evidently the result of 
the deprivation of some element of food essential 
for the proper nutrition of the nervous system of 
the bird, and this element is located in the pericarp 
and germ of the rice grain. 

The polyneuritis of the fowl is identical clinically 
and etiologically with the polyneuritis, called beriberi, 
occurring in man. For, as has been both accidentally 
and intentionally done, if the same experiment with 
rice-feeding is tried on man the result is identical 
beriberi is induced. Thus, Strong and Crowell 
conducted a series of experiments on twenty-four 
life- sentenced prisoners, and were able to prove (a) 
the non-communicability of the disease and (b) its 
production in man solely by means of diet. 

Fraser and Stanton showed, and their observa- 
tions have been abundantly confirmed, that the anti- 
neuritic element is located in the pericarp of the rice 
grain, that it is soluble in alcohol, is stable in acid 
but unstable in alkaline solutions, is thermolabile 
being destroyed by a temperature of 130 C. and 
that it is dialysable ; that it is not a phy tin nor a fat, 
and that, although itself not containing phosphorus, 
the amount of phosphorus in any given rice is a 
reliable indication of the safety, or otherwise, of 
that rice as a staple article of food. Rice containing 
less than 0*4 per cent, of P 2 O 5 they consider unsafe, and 
believe that its persistent use may lead to beriberi. 

Acting on these findings, the Governments of 
Singapore and the Federated Malay States inter- 
dicted the use of white or polished rice in their 
gaols, lunatic asylums, schools, and hospitals, with 
the result that beriberi, which hitherto had been 
the cause of an enormous mortality and morbidity, 
has been practically banished from these institutions. 
Corresponding results have accrued from the same 
practice in Dutch Malaya, in the Philippines, and 
elsewhere. 

It has been proved by Funk and others that the 
same or a similar antineuritic body is present in 



424 BERIBERI [CHAP. 

other cereals and in a variety of foodstuffs. It 
seems probable that the destruction by heat in the 
process of canning, or otherwise, of this body, called 
by Funk " vitamine " * which exercises a curative 
as well as a protective action may account for the 
prevalence of ship beriberi in Scandinavian ships, 
especially in long voyages during which such foods 
are an unavoidable necessity. In this respect there 
is a parallelism between beriberi and scurvy. 

'Morbid anatomy and pathology. There is 
very little to be said about the post-mortem appearances in beri- 
beri which is not covered by the accepted descriptions of the 
lesions of peripheral neuritis. There is a degeneration of the 
peripheral nerves more especially of their distal ends, and 
there is secondary atrophic degeneration of muscle, including 
that of the heart, which may be the subject of an acute fatty 
degeneration like that of diphtheria. Hamilton Wright has 
shown that degenerative nerve changes (formerly denied) 
may be detected in the nerve centres and throughout the 
implicated neurons, as in other forms of peripheral neuritis. 
This observer seeks to correlate the early or " acute " phase of 
the disease with the primary poisoning of the nerve-endings, 
the latter or " residual " phase with the stage of nerve de- 
generation. If there is anything peculiar about the post- 
mortem appearances in beriberi, it arises from the somewhat 
special implication of the central and peripheral organs of the 
circulation namely, dilatation of the heart, especially of the 
right side, and great accumulation of blood in the right heart 
and in the veins. In addition, there is a marked liability in 
many cases to serous effusion into the pericardium, pleural 
cavities, peritoneum, and cellular tissue. This very marked 
liability to serous effusion, and the tendency to cardiac 
dilatation, may be said to be more or less distinctive of beri- 
beric as compared with other forms of multiple neuritis. The 
type of oedema indicates thai it depends especially on vaso-motor 
disturbances, although cardiac weakness and partial suppression 
of urine may be contributory elements. (Edema of the lungs 
also is not uncommon, and has, probably, a pathology similar 
to that of the connective-tissue oedema. There is no nephritis, 
The only lesion that might be considered specific in beriberi is 
the duodenitis, which, according to Hamilton Wright, is in- 
variably present in acute cases during the first three weeks of 
the disease. The invariableness of this lesion is denied by 
other observers Daniels, Koch, and Hunter. 

Mode of death. The most practically important 
point in the pathology of beriberi is that which relates 
to the modes of death. The paresis and the atrophy 
* *' Vitamine " is a body allied to allantoin. 



xxv] MODE OF DEATH 425 

of the voluntary muscles, the oedema of the connective 
tissue, and the serous effusions are, as a rule, not very 
serious matters at all events as affecting life. But 
it is very different when paresis and degeneration 
seriously implicate the heart and the muscles of 
respiration. In nearly all beriberics there is heart 
trouble, arising, doubtless, from implication of the 
pneumogastric nerve and the cardiac plexus. In 
some patients the degree of implication is slight ; 
but in others it is sufficient so to weaken the 
heart that death is inevitable. We cannot be quite 
sure in which cases the implication of the pneumo- 
gastric nerve or cardiac plexus is likely to be serious, 
or in which cases it is likely to be slight. Often the 
mildest cases of beriberi, as judged by the degree of 
voluntary muscle paresis or by the amount of oedema, 
are in reality the most dangerous. There appears to 
be an element of chance determining the nerves which 
the poison picks out. Sometimes one may see a patient 
who is completely paralysed so far as legs and arms 
are concerned, and perhaps wasted to a skeleton ; and 
yet this same patient may never have a serious symp- 
tom referable to his heart, or in any way threatening 
life. On the other hand, one may see a patient with 
very little paresis, very little oedema, and yet in a 
short time the heart may become involved, and he 
will die in a few minutes or hours. 

I presume the dilatation of the heart, the usual 
cause of death, is favoured or brought about by a 
concatenation of several conditions : by degeneration 
of muscle fibre following nerve destruction, by im- 
perfect systole in consequence of an interrupted 
nerve supply, by obstruction to capillary circulation 
in consequence of vaso-motor paresis in the pulmonary 
and general circulation. Once commenced, the car- 
diac dilatation tends to increase automatically ; for 
the more the organ dilates the more difficult does 
it become for it to contract, the greater is the in- 
competency of the valves, and the more the blood 
stagnates in and over-distends it. The organ enters 
on a vicious pathological circle. Finally it becomes 
so distended that, like an overstretched bladder, it 



426 BERIBERI [CHAP. 

loses the power to contract altogether. The blood 
then rapidly accumulates in the great veins, the right 
auricle and ventricle are distended almost to burst- 
ing, and death is inevitable. The result is often 
contributed to by the coexistence of pleural effusion, 
hydropericardium, paresis of the diaphragm, over- 
distension of the stomach by food or gas, "and, above 
all, by oedema of the lungs. It can readily be under- 
stood how the establishment of any additional ob- 
struction of this description would still further tax the 
dilated, enfeebled heart and determine the fatal issue. 
When we come to make a post-mortem in these 
cases we may find a heart slightly hypertrophied and 
enormously dilated, the right cavities distended with 
blood, the lungs and liver full of dark blood, and all 
the great veins engorged. 

Prognosis. This tendency to dilatation of the 
heart is the dangerous element in beriberi ; it should 
always be before our eyes, and dominate our plans 
of treatment. It is wonderful how rapidly it may 
come on, and how rapidly it may prove fatal. These 
sudden deaths, occurring sometimes from syncope 
from instantaneous failure, as well as from the some- 
what slower process of increasing over-distension are 
constantly sprung on one in this disease. An abso- 
lutely favourable prognosis, therefore, ought never to 
be ventured on in even the mildest-looking case of 
beriberi, or so long as the patient is exposed to the 
conditions causing the disease, or so long as the 
neuritis appears to be active. That is a lesson which 
is often, and sometimes painfully, borne in on the 
practitioner in beriberi districts. 

Evidences of grave heart implication, such as 
pulsating cervical vessels, equal spacing of the inter- 
vals audible on auscultation, enlargement of cardiac 
dullness especially to the right, epigastric pulsation, 
a rapid feeble pulse, a distended stomach, cold ex- 
tremities, cyanosis, dyspnoea, and a disproportion in 
the strength of the heart- and wrist-beats, are signifi- 
cant of danger. Paralysis of the diaphragm, of the 
intercostal muscles, extensive serous effusions, very 
scanty urine are also unfavourable signs. 



xxv] DIAGNOSIS 427 

Vomiting. No one can say when or how soon 
fatal implication of the pneumogastric and other car- 
diac nerves may take place, but vomiting is always 
an ugly and threatening symptom in beriberi; it 
probably indicates that the former important nerve is 
being attacked. The Japanese regard the occurrence 
of vomiting as of fatal import. Marked dilatation of 
the stomach has a similar significance. 

Prognosis is improved if the patient is placed on 
a non-beriberic diet and is removed (that is before the 
heart muscle, or the cardiac or respiratory nerves, 
are gravely degenerated) from the place in which the 
disease was contracted, to a healthy, non-beriberic, 
high-lying locality. 

Mortality. The mortality in beriberi varies in 
different epidemics and in different localities. On 
the whole, it is greater in low than in high latitudes, 
in the dropsical than in the atrophic forms, in the 
acute than in the chronic. In some epidemics it is as 
high as 30 per cent, of those attacked ; in others as 
low as 5 per cent. , or even lower. 

Diagnosis. Usually the diagnosis of beriberi is 
not difficult. Multiple peripheral neuritis occurring 
as an epidemic, or in a place or ship in which the 
disease has occurred on some previous occasion, may 
as a rule be set down as beriberi. Sporadic cases 
may be difficult to diagnose, more especially if 
there is a history of alcoholism, of malaria, or of 
drugging with arsenic. The presence, actual or past, 
of oedema especially of oedema over the shins 
and palpitations and other evidences of cardiac 
implication, are significant of beriberi. It must be 
borne in mind that slighter degrees of beriberic 
poisoning, evidenced only by slight anaesthesia of the 
pretibial skin area, by slight oedema of the same 
region, by slight hyperaesthesia of the calf muscles, 
and, perhaps, by impairment or absence of knee-jerk, 
may be the only symptoms present. True rheumatism 
is rare in the tropics. Among natives, especially if 
their language is not understood, complaints of what 
may seem to be rheumatic pains in the legs should 
always be carefully investigated, the knee-jerks tested, 



428 BEKIBERI [CHAP. 

and signs of hypersesthesia of the calf muscles sought 
for. The significance of these signs of what may 
be described as larval beriberi is too frequently 
overlooked until some sudden death, which, with 
earlier recognition of the disease, might have been 
avoided, puts the practitioner on his guard. All 
paretic affections, all cases of oedema, all cases of 
palpitation, and all cases of rheumatic-like pains 
occurring among the natives of warm climates, there- 
fore, should suggest the possibility of their being 
beriberic, and also the necessity for a detailed exami- 
nation with this in view. 

Treatment. The first and most important thing 
to be attended to in the treatment of a case of beri- 
beri is the diet. From this, rice, especially white 
rice, should be eliminated, and some article rich 
in vitamine such as beans, peas, peanuts, barley, 
wheaten flour (not over-milled), or oatmeal substi- 
tuted, and, in view of the fact that we as yet cannot 
be certain that beriberi is not in some way dependent 
on an unknown germ, the patient should be removed, 
if practicable, to some place away from the endemic 
spot, to some dry locality, if such is available. He 
should sleep well off the ground in a thoroughly 
ventilated, sunny room situated in an upper storey. 
He ought to clothe sufficiently and feed well, taking 
care that the food is of a varied and not of a bulky 
character, and that it contains a sufficiency of nitro- 
genous and fatty elements. Apart from other con- 
siderations, rice is found to be a bad food for beri- 
berics; it is too bulky. Animal food, including fat, 
must enter into the dietary in reasonable amount. 
Milk and eggs are beneficial. Yeast is credited with 
curative properties, and extracts of rice-polishings, 
prepared in various ways, have undoubtedly a bene- 
ficial effect and, when procurable, ought to be given.* 

* Chrisostem, acting on the hypothesis that beriberi is not a 
vitamine-deficiency disease but due to deficiency of cholesterin or 
similar compound in the blood, treated a number of cases with 
injections of cerebrin ?ix to ten on alternate days to the extent 
of 3 c.c. He claims remarkable results. Afterwards he injected 
5 per cent, cholesterin in olive oil with even better results. Then 
he tried phytosterin (the vegetable equivalent of cholesterin), also 



xxv] TREATMENT 429 

The worst cases, particularly if there is any sign of 
serious cardiac implication, should remain in bed; 
but the mild cases had better spend the greater part 
of the day in the open air. If the disease break out 
on shipboard the dietary should be changed and the 
crew should be kept out of the forecastle, and, so far 
as possible, made to sleep on deck, properly protected 
from the weather by an awning. 

With a view to diminishing to some extent the 
bulk of blood in the vessels and heart, the seriously 
affected patients should take little fluid, and keep 
the bowels very free by means of full and repeated 
doses of some saline aperient. In cardiac cases small 
doses of digitalis or of strophanthus seem to do 
good. Should signs of acute cardiac distress appear, 
full doses three, four, or five drops of the 1 -per- 
cent, solution of nitro-glycerine are indicated. The 
dose must be repeated every quarter- or half-hour, 
and kept up until the threatening symptoms pass 
away. In suddenly developed cardiac attacks inhal- 
ations of nitrite of amyl, pending the operation of 
the nitro-glycerine, may be given. It is well for 
these two drugs to be in the hands of properly 
instructed ward attendants, so as to meet cardiac 
complication on its earliest appearance. There is 
often no time to send for the doctor. Should signs 
of cardiac distension and failure persist and increase 
in spite of these means, there must be no hesitation 
in bleeding the patient, taking, if it will flow, eight 
or ten ounces from the arm, or, this failing for any 
reason, from the external jugular. Often, as the 
blood flows, rapid amelioration of the alarming con- 
dition sets in, and the patient is, for the time being, 
tided over an acute danger and given another chance. 
The bleeding should be repeated if the alarming 
symptoms recur, as they are almost sure to do. 
Oxygen inhalations, if available, are worth trying in 
cardiac attacks. Pleural and pericardial effusions 

with good results. Under daily injections of cholesterin, polyneu- 
ritis avium rapidly subsided. If further experience confirm these 
results, we have in cholesterin a valuable remedy in our hands ; 
further, the vitamine theory of beriberi will have to be revised. 



430 BERIBERI [CHAP. 

should be sought for, and, if deemed to be interfering 
in the slightest degree with the circulation or respira- 
tion, drawn off with the aspirator. 

Provided the patient is placed on a suitable diet 
and has been removed from the spot where he fell 
ill, and provided he can be tided over the first fort- 
night, he will probably recover; but, on the other 
hand, should he persist in a diet of white rice and 
remain in the place where his disease was acquired, 
though he may get over one or two cardiac attacks, 
he will almost surely die. 

In the case of breast-fed beriberic infants, they 
should be removed front the mother and handed over 
to a healthy wet nurse, or placed on the bottle. Some- 
times this is impracticable; in such cases in the 
Philippines a preparation of extract of rice polishings, 
called " tiqui-tiqui," has the reputation of being 
wonderfully efficacious. It is given to the extent of 
5 c.c. a day in 20-drop doses every two hours. At 
the end of 24 hours the most alarming symptoms 
disappear and the child is well in three days. If the 
case is a very severe one double doses should be 
given, and the tiqui-tiqui continued so long as there 
is any aphonia. 

For the atrophy of the muscles and anaesthesia 
of the skin, faradization and massage are of service, 
and should be employed so soon as the muscular 
hypersesthesia has begun to subside. Strychnine, 
aj-senic, and nitrate of silver are in repute as tonics 
in these circumstances. Care should be taken that 
permanent deformity does not occur from contraction 
of muscles. Foot-drop should be counteracted by 
Phelps's talipes splint with an elastic accumulator, 
and any other threatened deformity appropriately 
met. Relapses must not be risked by a return to the 
original diet or source of infection. 'The seaside or a 
sea- voyage has often a marvellously restorative effect. 

When beriberi breaks out in a school, jail, or 
similar institution the place should be emptied of its 
inmates as soon as possible ; at all events, those parts 
of the building in which the disease has appeared 
ought to be cleared out, and not reoccupied until they 



xxv] PRECAUTIONS 431 

have been thoroughly cleansed, disinfected, ventilated, 
and dried. Overcrowding must be strictly avoided. 
Ventilation must be effective. The dietary should 
be revised and, if necessary, rice should be elimi- 
nated ; it may be replaced by meat, flour, or beans. 
All the inmates should be obliged to pass the larger 
part of every day in the open air ; their knee-jerks 
should be tested, and their legs examined for numb- 
ness, oedema, and muscular hypersesthesia from time 
to time. Any suspicious case should be removed 
at once. 

Should beriberi appear on board ship, besides 
the precautions already indicated, on the assumption 
that there may be an infective as well as a dietetic 
element at the bottom of the disease, special means of 
disinfection must be employed. Rotten planking and 
bilge- water must be removed from the neighbourhood 
of the quarters of the crew ; the sound woodwork 
should be scraped and painted; disinfectants should 
be freely and frequently employed, clothes and sea- 
chests washed and disinfected, and every means 
necessary to destroy lurking germs vigorously adopted. 

In beriberi countries low-lying, damp situations 
should be avoided as building sites. The sleeping 
quarters, especially, should be raised well off the 
ground, and located, if possible, in an upper storey ; 
all rooms should be so arranged as to be easily flushed 
with fresh air and flooded with sunlight. 

As yet we know little of the virus of beriberi, if 
such there be, nor is our knowledge of the way 
in which it is acquired by any means complete. 
It may be communicable, and until we have more 
precise knowledge it is unjustifiable not to recognize 
the subjects of the disease as being possible sources 
of danger to others. Therefore, in the endemic zone, 
beriberics should be treated as infective and isolated. 
In gaols and similar institutions new-comers, whether 
manifestly suffering from beriberi or not, should be iso- 
lated and kept under special observation for a time, 
their clothes disinfected and body vermin scrupulously 
destroyed. Prison clothes and prison blankets espe- 
cially should always be disinfected before being 



432 BERIBERI 

passed into store and before being served out. The 
utmost care should be exercised to keep prisoners 
free from vermin and the premises from flies, cock- 
roaches, fleas, bugs,, and all insects that might possibly 
serve as transmitters of the hypothetical virus. 

In institutions under Government control, or in 
conditions in which it can be successfully enforced, 
there should be a stringent rule against the use 
of over-milled rice. To legislate against the use of 
white rice in countries in which rice is the staple 
food would not be politic, and could only lead to 
opposition and defeat the object in view; but the 
authorities, by educative methods and in other 
ways, could do much gradually to eradicate any 
prejudice there may be amongst the natives againpt 
under-milled rice. 



CHAPTER XXVI 

EPIDEMIC DROPSY 

Definition and description. A specific, epi- 
demic, perhaps communicable disease, running its 
course in from three to six weeks, and characterized by 
the sudden appearance of anasarca, preceded in most 
instances by fever, vomiting, diarrhoea, or by irrita- 
tion of the skin, and often accompanied by a rash, 
by fever of a mild, remitting type, by disorder of 
the bowels, and by pronounced anaemia. The case- 
mortality varies from 2 to 40 per cent., death being 
sudden and depending upon redema of the lungs, 
hydrothorax, hydropericardium, or other pulmonary 
and cardiac complications. 

History and geographical distribution. 
The foregoing is a concise description, drawn prin- 
cipally from McLeod's account (Trans. Epidem. Soc. 
Lond.y N.S., vol. xii.) of a disease which appeared in 
Calcutta, it is believed for the first time, in the cold 
weather of 1877-78, of 1878-79, and 1879-80. On 
each occasion it disappeared with the advent of the hot 
weather. The same, or a similar, disease broke out 
at Shillong, Assam, 5,000 feet above the level of the 
sea, in October, 1878; at Dacca in January, 1879; 
at South Sylhet in the cold weather of 1878-79 ; and 
in Mauritius (Lovell and Davidson), having been 
imported from Calcutta, in November, 1878. There 
are no trustworthy accounts of its occurrence else- 
where, although certain vague statements seem to 
indicate that it appears at times in other parts of 
India. In Mauritius it prevailed until June, 1879, 
attacking about one-tenth part of the coolie popula- 
tion, of whom 729 died, a mortality of about 2 or 3 
per cent. At Sylhet there were no deaths ; at 
Shillong also the mortality was insignificant ; but 
in Calcutta the death-rate in those attacked was 
433 



434 EPIDEMIC DROPSY [CHAP. 

estimated as high as 20 to 40 per cent. Coolies and 
natives were alone affected; Europeans enjoyed a 
complete immunity. In Calcutta the disease was 
confined to a particular quarter; here it attacked 
families and groups of people, slowly extending its 
area, but at no time becoming generally epidemic 
throughout the city. A very limited epidemic of the 
disease appeared in Calcutta in 1901, and again 
in 1908-9. 

Etiology. Both sexes were attacked; children 
under puberty were less liable than adults ; sucklings 
were seldom affected. The weak and the robust 
were equally susceptible. There are no direct ob- 
servations on the germ of the disease; there is 
indirect evidence of its portability and of its com- 
municability. But as to whether it is directly com- 
municable from man to man, or whether it, or its 
cause, is indirectly transmitted through some un- 
recognized medium, has not been determined. Evidence 
of its capacity for remaining latent for a considerable 
period is supplied by the history of the successive 
epidemics in Calcutta, where it is said more especially 
to affect the Hindus. The disease could not have 
been a very catching one, seeing that no medical 
man was attacked, and that, except in the case of 
Mauritius, it spread but slowly. 

Major Greig, who has made a special study of 
the disease during the epidemics in Calcutta, concludes 
that epidemic dropsy resembles ship beriberi, and 
that it is conduced to by a " one-sided " dietary of 
cereals from which the vitamine elements have been 
removed by over-milling. He remarks that the rise 
and fall of several of the epidemics have synchronized 
with periods of high-priced grain, when the poorer 
classes could not afford to supplement, as they do in 
more normal times, the cereal diet with additional 
articles of food. The nature of the disease is still 
obscure ; many believe it to be nothing but beriberi, 
and it is possible that observers, while entertaining 
opposite opinions, have been dealing with two different 
diseases. 

Identification. McLeod, after a careful analysis 



xxvi] ETIOLOGY 435 

of all the available evidence, concludes that epidemic 
dropsy is a disease sui generis. At the time of its 
occurrence in Calcutta many of the physicians there 
looked upon it as a form of beriberi; and, indeed, 
in many respects it resembles very closely those cases 
of beriberi in which dropsy is a prominent symptom, 
and in which the nervous phenomena are slight or 
altogether absent. But in epidemics of beriberi such 
cases are the exception in fact, are very rare, and 
always concur with others in which nerve symptoms 
are pronounced, and with purely atrophic cases ; such 
were not seen in either the Calcutta or the Mauritius 
epidemics. In epidemic beriberi the mortality is much 
higher than in the Shillong and Sylhet epidemics. 
Furthermore, beriberi is a much more chronic disease, 
is not accompanied by an eruption, and but seldom 
with well-marked fever. 

Special symptoms. According to McLeod, 
dropsy was almost invariably present. It usually 
appeared first in the legs, and in some instances was 
confined to the lower extremities; in others it 
spread and involved the entire body. Occasionally 
it was very persistent, lasting and recurring during 
convalescence. 

Fever also was a very constant symptom ; some- 
times it preceded, sometimes it accompanied, some- 
times it succeeded the dropsy. It was rarely high, 
ranging usually from 99 to 102 F. ; in a few cases 
possibly from malarial complications it reached 
104. Rigors were rare. 

Diarrhoea and vomiting generally ushered in the 
disease in the Mauritius epidemic. In Calcutta these 
symptoms were not so frequent, although they were 
by no means rare there, occurring at both the earlier 
and later stages. Dysentery was common in the 
Calcutta epidemic. 

Nervous symptoms such as burning, pricking, 
itching, and feelings of distension of the skin, 
sometimes limited to the soles and feet often pre- 
ceded the dropsy. Distressing aching of muscles, 
bones, and joints, worst at night, was usual. Anaes- 
thesia of skin areas and paresis of muscles were never 



436 EPIDEMIC DROPSY 

observed in Mauritius. Harvey remarked two cases 
in Calcutta exhibiting doubtful paretic symptoms ; 
these are the only two recorded in which there was 
anything resembling the paretic symptoms usually so 
prominent a feature in beriberi. 

An exanthem, erythematous on the face, rubeolar 
on the trunk and limbs, was frequently seen in 
Mauritius, less frequently in Calcutta. It appeared 
about a week after the oedema, and lasted from ten 
to twelve days. 

Circulation and respiration. Disturbances of the 
heart and circulation were prominent features in 
nearly all the cases. The pulse was weak, often 
rapid and irregular ; cardiac bruits were also noted. 
Breathlessness on exertion occurred in all cases; severe 
orthopnoea in many. Signs of pleural and pericardial 
effusion, of oedema of the lungs, of pneumonia, and of 
cardiac dilatation were common in Calcutta. 

Ancemia was usually present and marked; so 
were wasting and prostration. Scorbutic symptoms 
occasionally showed themselves. 

The liver, spleen, and kidneys were not specially 
affected. The urine was rarely albuminous. 

Morbid anatomy. Beyond general cedema and 
occasional pleural and pericardial effusion, nothing 
special was remarked post mortem. 

Treatment. In the absence of anything like 
precise knowledge of the cause and pathology of 
epidemic dropsy, treatment must be entirely symp- 
tomatic. Mild purgatives, the exhibition of digitalis 
when there is evidence of cardiac weakness, and the 
occasional use of the nitrites in the fits of orthopnoaa 
might prove serviceable. During convalescence iron 
and arsenic are indicated. 



CHAPTER XXVII 
PELLAGRA . 

Synonyms. Pellarina, mal de la rosa, mal rosso, 
flema salada, Alpine scurvy, Asturian leprosy, As- 
turian rose, disease of the Landes, dermotagra, 
psilosis pigmentosa. 

Definition. An endemic disease of slow evolu 
tion, characterized by a complexity of nervous, 
alimentary, and cutaneous symptoms, which make 
their first appearance during the spring months 
(sometimes the autumn months), and recur year after 
year at the same season, remitting more or less 
during the winter months. It is for the most 
part confined to field-labourers. The more distinctive 
features are (a) a remitting dermatitis of the ex- 
posed parts of the body ; (6) marked emaciation ; (c) 
profound depression alternating with mania. 

Geographical distribution. Europe: Pel- 
lagra has a wide distribution in Southern Europe. 
It is found in northern Portugal, in Spain, in Italy, 
in the south-west of France, in the Austrian Tyrol, 
in Hungary, Croatia, Dalmatia, Bosnia, Servia, Bul- 
garia, Turkey, Greece, Corfu, Roumania, Bessarabia, 
Kherson, and Poland. Sambon has shown that, 
though hitherto practically unrecognized, it prevails 
endemically throughout the British Isles.* Africa : 

* Until 1912 pellagra was not known to be endemic in the 
British Islands. It is true that three or four cases had been 
described and correctly diagnosed between 1863 and 1909, but 
they had not attracted any attention. Indeed, Sandwith, who 
had had the opportunity of studying pellagra in Egypt, stated 
that the published accounts did not tally with the disease as he 
knew it, though the symptoms were somewhat similar to those of 
pellagra. Since 1912 Sambon has had the opportunity of ex- 
amining over a hundred cases of indigenous pellagra in England, 
Scotland, and Wales, and he has established that pellagra is 
widely distributed throughout the British Isles, having endemic 
stations as far north as the Shetlands. He also believes that the 
disease is of long standing in these isles, as evidenced by the 

437 



438 PELLAGRA [CHAP. 

Algeria, Tunis, Egypt, the Red Sea coast, Rhodesia, 
Nyasaland, and among the Kaffirs and Zulus. Sand- 
with found it in 1900 among the coloured lunatics 
on Robben Island. Asia: Information is scanty, but 
it has been reported from Asia Minor and North 
Behar in India (Ray, 1902), Singapore, Philippine 
Islands. America : The United States, Mexico, Cen- 
tral America, Brazil, the Argentine, Barbados, and 
probably in other West India Islands. Austral- 
asia : Neirte has reported it in New Caledonia. 

History. The history of pellagra is comparatively recent. 
The disease was recognized and described almost simultano- 
ously in Italy and Spain. In Spain it was first described by 
Casal in 1762 under the name of mal de la rosa. In Italy the 
disease, under the name of Alpine scurvy, was described by 
Odoardi in 1776, but it had been recognized previously by 
Pujati in 1740. Ramazzini, in 1700, writes of a disease under 
the name of mal del padrone, which appears to have been pel- 
lagra. Frapolli, who described the disease in 1771 under the 
name of pelagra (sic), says that probably it is the same as 
pellarella, a disorder mentioned as early as 1578 in the rules 
of admission to the Ospedale Maggiore in Milan. 

The earliest mention of pellagra in France dates from 
1829, when Hameau published an account of cases observed 
since 1818 around Teste-de-Buche and in the plain of Arcachon. 

In Roumania the first recognition of the disease is assigned 
to the year 1836; in Corfu, to 1839. 

We know nothing of the history of pellagra in Egypt 
prior to the publication of Pruner's " Topographie Medicale 
du Caire," in 1847. Pruner's statements were discredited by 
Hirsch and others, but recently Sandwith has shown that 
the disease is very prevalent in Lower Egypt, and also, 
though to a less extent, in Upper Egypt. 

In the United States of America, although there is evi- 
dence of its sporadic occurrence there for a considerable time 
at least fifty years before its nature was recognized, pel- 
lagra was first diagnosed as such in 1907. It is prevalent 
especially in the south - eastern States. Dr. H. F. Harris, 
Health Officer of the Georgia State Board of Health, estimated 
that there were 50,000 cases of pellagra in his State alone. 

Etiology. Sex. Both sexes are liable, but in 
different places the disease exhibits a very different 
predilection for the one or other sex in accordance 
with the occupations and habits of the people, and 

Spanish-derived name of "the rose," still now used in Scotland 
to indicate pellagra and other easily confounded erythematous 
conditions of the exposed parts. 



xxvii] ETIOLOGY 439 

presumably consequent greater or less degree of ex- 
posure to the causative agent. 

Age. Hitherto pellagra was considered to be a 
disease of middle age, the majority of cases occur- 
ring between 20 and 50. Sambon has shown that 
within the endemic centres children are attacked, 
and that no age is exempt, he having seen the char- 
acteristic symptoms in a woman over 100 years old 
and in infants of barely 3 months. 

Occupation. The^disease is most prevalent among 
field-labourers. The inhabitants of towns, even of 
those in the very heart of intensely pellagrous dis- 
tricts, enjoy an immunity similar to that of town- 
inhabitants as regards malaria. Felix points out that 
pellagra is quite exceptional among the Jews, who, 
as a race, rarely engage in agriculture. Bouchard 
says that herdsmen in pellagra regions are exempt. 
Although pellagra occurs most frequently in rural 
labourers living from hand to mouth, it does attack 
people in good circumstances. This has long been 
recognized in Italy, and the figures given by Gruner 
for the southern States of the United States 258 
cases had lived in poverty, 59 in comfort, 6 in 
affluence show that the same remark applies to 
America. 

Season. Of all diseases with marked seasonal 
connection, pellagra is one of the most striking. 
As in the case of malaria, the pellagra season varies 
in different localities, but is always the same in the 
same locality. 

In Europe the disease invariably appears in manifest and 
epidemic form during the spring and autumn quarters of the 
year, the spring outbreak being by far the most severe, the 
autumnal recurrence often inconspicuous or lacking. In Egypt, 
according to Chalmers, there is a spring invasion occurring in 
the months of April and May, and an autumn recurrence in 
November. In Nyasaland, according to Dr. Stannus, pellagra 
seems to prevail chiefly during August, September, and Octo- 
ber, which are the spring months in the southern hemisphere, 
and again, though to a less extent, in January, February, and 
March (fall recurrence). In the United States of America, 
owing to the vast extent of territory and great variety of 
climates, the periodical incidence of the disease is necessarily 
different in different sections. In the northern States, as in 



440 PELLAGKA [CHAP. 

Europe, the disease exhibits the usual well-marked double 
incidence, the spring outbreak occurring in May and June, the 
autumnal one in September and October. In the far south 
the disease may appear as early as January, and may be met 
with at any period of the year. In Barbados the disease 
seems to prevail more or less from May to October or Novem- 
ber. Whilst the wide range of pellagra throughout the world 
might lead one to believe that climate exerts no special in- 
fluence, the very definite seasonal periodicity of the disease 
shows that climatic factors display an important, though 
indirect, part in its etiology. 

Topographical distribution. This has been care- 
fully studied by Sambon in Europe, in America, and 
in the West Indies. His observations tend to show 
that, like malaria, sleeping sickness, and yellow fever, 
pellagra is a disease of locality, and is contracted 
solely within certain rural districts where exist the 
conditions essential to its propagation. 

Sambon points out that the presence of pellagrins in a 
locality is not necessarily evidence of endemieity. In Italy 
he visited several Alpine villages where numerous cases had 
been reported, and in every instance he found that the local 
pellagra consisted entirely of imported cases. The patients 
were adult mountaineers, who every spring went to labour in 
the subjacent affected regions ; young children and adults who 
had never left their mountainous district were not affected. 
All pellagra cases, in whatever part they occur, may be traced 
to exposure within the endemic centres of the disease ; while 
individuals who there contract the infection, but leave the 
infective area, are not a source of danger to those with whom 
they come in touch, however intimate the association. Accord- 
ing to Sambon, pellagra is readily contracted at the appro- 
priate season within its endemic stations, and the period of 
incubation may be very short about a fortnight. He men- 
tions several instances of large families from healthy districts, 
in which all or most of the respective members contracted the 
disease soon after taking up residence in a pellagrous area. 
On several occasions he met families all the elder members of 
which were pellagrins, whilst the two or three youngest 
children were not, owing to the fact that the parents had 
removed from a pellagrous to a healthy locality before the 
birth of the latter. Pellagra everywhere presents the same 
peculiar topographical distribution: its stations or endemic foci 
are irregularly scattered and always confined to well-defined 
rural areas either intersected by streams or connected with 
other water bodies. A striking feature of its distributional 
peculiarities is the exemption of towns; "pellagra stops at 
city gates," and when the disease is epidemic the crowded 
town escapes the scourge. 



xxvii] ETIOLOGY 441 

Epidemiology. An" important epidemiological 
feature of pellagra, in addition to those already 
mentioned, is the marked fluctuation of its preval- 
ence from year to year. At times there may be 
long periods of quiescence, followed by years of con- 
siderable activity during which the disease may be 
looked upon as a new invasion. Pellagra is in no 
way contagious. The sound may associate with the 
sick and remain healthy. Doctors, nurses, and 
attendants on pellagrins are not known to contract 
the disease. Pellagrous wet-nurses do not infect 
their charges, and attempts to transmit the disease 
by inoculation have failed. 

Associated diseases such as ankylostomiasis, bil- 
harziasis, tuberculosis, sprue, dysentery, and syphilis 
play a very important part in favouring the deve- 
lopment of pellagra, in accelerating its course, in 
modifying and aggravating its symptoms, and in 
determining its mode of termination.' 

The virus. Pellagra has been ascribed to the 
most varied causes, such as insolation, poverty, in- 
sanitary dwellings, syphilis, irritant oils, bad water, 
alcohol, garlic, onions, maize. Some have regarded 
it as a modified or degenerate form of leprosy, others 
as "sunstroke of the skin," and D'Oleggio, in 1784, 
proposed that it should be called " vernal insolation." 
" Sun disease " was an old popular name, and cer- 
tainly the skin manifestations of pellagra are in- 
fluenced by the action of the direct rays of the sun. 
This was proved experimentally, first by Gherardini, 
who varied the limits of the eruption by systemati- 
cally displacing parts of the clothing ; and later by 
Hameau, who obtained differently shaped patches of 
erythema by means of gloves fenestrated in different 
ways. In smallpox and also in other exanthemata 
we notice a decided influence of light, more particu- 
larly of the actinic rays, on the production of their 
skin eruptions. Although light may influence the 
eruption in pellagra, this is no adequate reason for 
concluding that insolation is the cause of the disease, 
any more than that it is the cause of smallpox. In 
support of the sunlight hypothesis, certain experi- 



442 PELLAGRA [CHAP. 

ments on the effect of sunlight on animals fed on a 
too restricted (unphysiological) diet have been ad- 
vanced recently; but it is evident from what we 
now know of the seasonal, epidemiological, and topo- 
graphical habits of pellagra that such an hypothesis 
is untenable. 

It would be idle to discuss the arguments brought 
forward to show that pellagra is caused by bad 
water, insanitary dwellings, poverty, syphilis, leprosy, 
rancid oil, sour milk, acid wine, bad cheese, rye, 
millet, buckwheat, common salt, onions, or garlic. 
The maize theory, on the other hand, demands, 
because of its popularity, a searching scrutiny. 

The general opinion is that pellagra appeared 
soon after the introduction of maize into Europe, 
and that it advanced pari passu with the extension 
of maize cultivation, and with the more general 
adoption of the new cereal as an article of food. For 
these and other reasons maize is still held by many 
to be the causative agent of pellagra, just as a con- 
dition of rye is known to be the cause of ergotism ; 
and, as in the latter case, various theories have been 
advanced to explain the operation of the assumed cause. 

The morbific action of maize has been variously 
attributed to 

(a) Deficiency in its nutritive principles. 

(b) Specific toxic substance contained normally in 
the grain. 

(c) Poisons elaborated after it has been ingested. 

(d) Toxic substances elaborated during decom- 
position of the grain. 

(e) Fungi or bacteria found on maize. 

(a) Deficiency in nutritive principles. Maize stands high as 
regards alimentary value. Insufficient nourishment may bring 
about inanition and marasmus, but never causes specific lesions 
like those of pellagra. Entire populations who live solely on 
rice or potatoes remain quite free from this disease, although 
these foods are far inferior to maize in nutritive value. 

(b) Specific toxic substances normal to maize. Those who 
advanced this theory were obliged to stipulate for a special 
personal susceptibility, otherwise the immunity of the millions 
who live on Indian corn could not be accounted for. 

(e) Poisons elaborated from maize within the alimentary canal. 
Neusser regards pellagra as a peculiar form of auto-intoxica- 



xxvn] ETIOLOGY 443 

tion. A similar theory was propounded by De Giaxa in 1903. 
The latter ascribes the disease to a poison resulting from the 
action of fiacillus coli on sound maize after ingestion. He 
claims to have produced the anatomical lesions of pellagra 
in dogs by feeding them on porridge made with sound maize, 
and also to have obtained the same symptoms and lesions in 
animals inoculated with a toxin produced in vitro by the culti- 
vation of Bacillus coli in maize media. These theories are dis- 
posed of by the harmlessness of maize in non-pellagrous districts. 

(d) Toxic substances elaborated in decomposing maize. 
Lombroso, in 1871, claimed that pellagra is due to the in- 
gestion of certain toxic substances elaborated by saprophytes 
acting on the grain. In conjunction with others, he obtained 
from fermenting maize a watery extract containing a narcotic 
principle resembling conin, and" also an alcoholic extract and a 
red oil, both containing an alkaloid resembling strychnine, 
" pellagrozein." These two toxins combined, he holds, give 
rise to pellagra in the same way as sphacelinic acid and cornu- 
tin are believed to give rise to ergotism. In fowls inoculated 
with the toxins, Lombroso observed diarrhoea, loss of feathers, 
and death; in rats, wasting, choreiform movements, muscular 
spasm, and death ; in men, vomiting, diarrhoea, desquamation of 
the epidermis, giddiness, dilatation of the pupil, and malnutrition. 

These acute symptoms are in no way comparable to 
pellagra ; identical results follow the administration or inocula- 
tion of analogous substances prepared by similar methods from 
wheat and other harmless foods. 

Different investigators have extracted from damaged 
maize very different substances. Hausemann found a narcotic 
tetanic poison which he called "maizina." Selmi demons- 
trated the presence of ammoniacal acrolein. Pellogio extracted 
a bitter substance which produced paralytic symptoms. In 
1881 Monselice analysed various specimens of damaged maize 
collected in pellagra districts, but was unable to find any 
alkaloid ; he pertinently remarks that artificially fermented 
maize and the ordinary damaged maize are two very different 
things. In 1894 Pelizzi and Tirelli made experiments on dogs 
and rabbits, administering per os, or injecting subcutaneously 
or endovenously, the toxic substances obtained from cultures of 
the bacteria of maize. They observed spastic paresis of the 
posterior limbs and other symptoms which they considered 
characteristic of pellagra. Gosio, having observed that the 
commonest saprophyte of maize is Penicillium glaucum, pre- 
pared pure cultures of this fungus and extracted a substance 
belonging to the aromatic series. Ferrati made some experiments 
with a tincture of penicillium-damaged maize, and found that it 
is exceedingly toxic to rats, the animals dying in a few hours. 
Di Pietro noticed that only a certain variety of Penicillium 
glaucum has toxic properties. The poisonous substance is not 
present in cultures before the third day ; it is a glucoside, and 
is found in the spores only. Experiments on guineapigs, 
dogs, cats, and rabbits produced symptoms very different from 



444 PELLAGRA [CHAP. 

those obtained by Lombroso and others, but Di Pietro con- 
sidered them characteristic of pellagra. Di Pietro also tested 
the toxic properties of Penicillium glaucum on himself, and 
suffered from pyrosis, vomiting, giddiness, weakness in the 
legs, slight tremor of the arms, frequent micturition. Lastly, 
in 1904, Fossati declared that he induced pellagra by feed- 
ing or inoculating guineapigs with maize damaged either by 
Aspergillus fumigatus or Penicillium glaucum. These results 
are mutually contradictory. 

(e) Micro-organisms found on maize. Ballardini, in 1845, 
was the first to attribute pellagra to a living organism, a 
mould (Sporisorium maydis}, which he found in the greenish 
stain (verderame) frequently seen in the germ-groove of maize 
grains. Experiments gave rise to gastritis and diarrhoea in 
man, loss of feathers and general wasting in fowls. Lombroso 
pointed out that Sporisorium maydis, on account of its rarity, 
could not be the cause of pellagra, and that Ballardini had 
probably confounded the Sporisorium with Penicillium glaucum. 
A special commission reported against Ballardini's discovery, 
on the ground that the verderame was common in many 
non-pellagrous districts of Italy. However, notwithstanding 
this, Ballardini' s theory was accepted by many in Italy, and 
by Roussell and Costallat in France. 

In 1860 Pari incriminated the maize smut (Ustilago 
maydis), pointing out that the spores of this fungus are in- 
variably present in the dust of the hovels of the peasants, who 
store their maize in the rooms in which they sleep . Generali 
fed two horses on fodder mixed with the maize smut, and 
claimed that after seven months one of the animals presented 
a skin eruption on the parts most exposed to the sun. But 
Prof. Imhof, who made some experiments on himself, proved 
that the maize smut is harmless to man. 

In 1881 Majocchi found in both normal and diseased 
maize a very motile micro-organism which he named Bacterium 
maydis. He claimed to have found this organism in the blood, 
brain, liver, heart, kidneys, lungs, intestinal mucosa, and 
erythematous skin of pellagra patients, and on these grounds 
brought it forward as the causative agent of the disease, 
Cuboni found a similar bacillus in damaged maize and in the 
stools of pellagra patients. Paltauf, who investigated pellagra 
in 1889 on behalf of the Austrian Government, examined 
fifteen patients, but found Cuboni's bacterium in the stools 
of one only. However, he found it to be a very common 
saprophyte of damaged maize, and, together with Heider, 
proved that the maize toxins were partly due to the metabolic 
action of this organism. At the same time he showed that 
Bacterium maydis is no other than the well-known potato 
bacillus (Bacillus solanacearum] and that its toxic effects do not 
resemble pellagra. 

In 1896 Carrarioli also claimed to have found a bacillus in 
the blood, saliva, and stools of pellagra patients. He stated 
that he had inoculated the toxic products of this organism 



xxvii] ETIOLOGY 445 

subcutaneously into various animals, and that he also had 
invariably obtained symptoms similar to those of pellagra. He 
went so far as to name the organism Bacillus pellagra. 

In 1902 Ceni stated pellagra to be a true mycosis due to 
two different species of Aspergillus, A. fumiyatus and A.Jlaves- 
cens. He declared that the season in which pellagra symptoms 
appear in man corresponds to " the cycle of annual biological 
evolution " of these hyphomycetes. Moreover, he stated that he 
had been able to isolate almost constantly, and usually in pure 
culture, the two aspergilli from the lungs, pleura, pericardium, 
and meninges of pellagra cadavers, and, further, that the spores 
of the fungi pass through the intestinal wall and thus reach 
the other organs. 

In a later work Ceni, together with Besta, ascribes pellagra 
not to the organisms themselves, but to elaborated toxins. More 
recently Ceni and Besta describe two special varieties of Peni- 
cillium glaucum as' the true cause. According to these authors 
the toxic properties of one variety are excitative and there- 
fore cause the acute forms of the disease ; those of the other, 
being narcotic, give rise to a more chronic type. Tiraboschi, 
who made (1905) a very careful study of the hyphomycetes 
found on maize grains in pellagra districts, states that he 
never found A. flavescens, and believes that Ceni anel Besta 
must have confounded it with Aspergillm variant, which is 
very common. He also states that A. fumigatus is rare, while 
Ceni and Besta stated that both A. flave&cem and A. fumigatus 
are very common, and in some seasons even more common than 
Penicillium glaucum. 

The fungus incriminated by the majority of authors as the 
causative agent of pellagra is, strange to say, the common blue 
mould, Penicillium crustaceum (P. glaucum}, which is found 
everywhere and on the most heterogeneous media. 

In contemplating the fungus theory of pellagra it is 
interesting to note that of all the diseases known to be caused 
by fungi, such as thrush, ringworm, pinta, tinea imbricata, 
mycetoma, actinomycosis, pneumonicosis, not one in any way 
resembles pellagra. 

Of the more recent etiological theories concerning pellagra 
the following may be mentioned : Dr. Licorish of Barbados 
believes that the disease is due to an excessive sugar diet ; 
Auld ascribes it to a magnesium infiltration from the ingestion 
of maize ; Dr. Pixley of South Carolina incriminates rancid 
fats ; and Dr. Mizell of Georgia considers cotton-seed oil as an 
important factor. Kaubitschek thinks the cutaneous lesions 
due to an elementary poison, probably a lipoid constituent of 
corn plus the chemical rays of sunlight. Smith and Hedger 
suggest that Diplodia zece may have some connection with 
pellagra.* Long is inclined to incriminate the intestinal 

* Tizzoni claims to have solated a bacterium, the "Strcpto- 
bacillus pdlagrce, " from the blood, cerebro-spinal fluid, and tissues 
of pellagrins, and to have been able to transmit the disease to 
monkeys by the inoculation of the organism. 



446 PELLAGRA [CHAP. 

amoebae. Prof. Alessandrini of Berne first (1910) ascribed 
the disease to a filaria, the eggs of which he stated he had 
found in the skin of pellagrins, but later (1914), together with 
Scala, asserted that the primary cause of the disease is a 
deficiency of alkaline salts in water. Without these, silica, 
which is normally present in water, cannot be neutralized, 
and its presence gives rise to pellagra. 

In examining the numerous observations that 
have been made, there is one fact which stands out 
very prominently, and that is that each investigator 
claims to have reproduced true pellagra, either in 
animals or man, sometimes in himself, by inoculating 
beneath the skin, injecting into the veins, or adminis- 
tering per os the special organism or toxic product 
which he happens to have isolated. But the peculiar 
symptoms and anatomical lesions of pellagra, together 
with its epidemiology, seasonal habit, and geographi- 
cal distribution, show very clearly that the disease 
must have one specific cause and cannot be brought 
about by each, or all, or any of the numerous afore- 
mentioned nematodes, protozoa, fungi, bacteria, and 
chemical products. It would be unwise, therefore, 
to place much reliance on these experiments. The 
interpretation of experiments is often as fallacious 
as the interpretation of ordinary natural facts. The 
history of the investigation of almost every disease 
furnishes examples in plenty. 

The maize theory of pellagra is based chiefly on 
the belief that the disease appeared soon after the 
introduction of maize into Europe, and that it every- 
where followed the extension of maize cultivation, 
and increased with the more general adoption of the 
new cereal as an article of food. This opinion has 
been repeated by almost every writer on pellagra. 
Neither the statement nor the argument is indis- 
putable. Maize was introduced into Europe by the 
Spaniards from South America soon after the dis- 
covery of the western world, and the history of its 
cultivation in Spain, France, and Italy begins about 
the middle of the sixteenth century. Italian pella- 
grologists, eager to establish a relationship of cause 
and effect between the introduction of the new cereal 
into Italy and the first appearance of pellagra, which 



xxvn] ETIOLOGY 447 

they assign to the beginning of the eighteenth 
century, hold that the incriminated corn was not 
extensively cultivated until after the middle of the 
seventeenth century, ignoring all evidence of its 
cultivation, sale, and consumption between the middle 
of the sixteenth and the beginning of the seventeenth 
centuries. 

Although not recognized prior to the middle of 
the eighteenth century, there is every reason to 
believe that pellagra is as old as any other disease. 
Owing to the complex, protean, and frequently 
obscure nature of its syndrome, we lack definite 
information that might enable us securely to trace 
the history of pellagra in the medical records of the 
past ; but wherever it occurs in Italy, Spain, France, 
Roumania, Hungary, Egypt, the United States of 
America, the West India Islands those who first dis- 
covered it never claimed that it was a new disease, 
but invariably affirmed that it had long existed in 
the respective locality although confounded ' with 
other maladies. The wide range of pellagra through- 
out Europe at the time of its first recognition is 
irrefutable evidence of the antiquity of the disease, 
because pellagra is essentially a place-disease, and 
has never shown any disposition to spread after the 
manner of cholera and plague. It has been objected 
that if pellagra existed long before it was recognized, 
and if maize was introduced earlier than supposed, 
the possibility that they appeared together still re- 
mains, and the dates would merely be moved back. 
That is not so, because whilst maize was certainly 
not imported prior to the discovery of America by 
Columbus in 1439, there is strong scientific evidence 
to prove the great antiquity of pellagra, and, in any 
case, ample historical evidence to prove that the 
disease was widely distributed throughout both Spain 
and Italy at a time when maize could not have 
become a staple in the alimentation of either 
country. 

Against the maize theory stand two decisive 
facts : (1) The occurrence of pellagra in people who 
have never eaten maize, as, for instance, in the British 



448 PELLAGRA [CHAP. 

Isles; (2) the absence of pellagra amongst maize- 
eating populations living in close proximity to or in 
the very midst of pellagrous areas, as evidenced by 
the well-known immunity of towns in Italy. To 
overcome these embarrassing facts, so telling against 
the maize theory, the comfortable term " pseudo- 
pellagra" was invented. The disease is pellagra 
when it fits in with the orthodox theory and when 
it can be connected in any way with maize ; but 
when this is not possible, the disease becomes a 
" pseudopellagra " ! 

After pointing out (Brit. Med. Journ., 1905) how 
unsatisfactory are the prevailing theories as to the 
causation of pellagra, Sambon suggests that it prob- 
ably belongs to the protozoal group of diseases. The 
skin lesions, the chronic course, the implication of 
the nervous system, the beneficial effect of arsenical 
treatment, he claims, support the protozoal hypo- 
thesis. The mononuclear increase in the blood of 
pellagra patients is an additional argument in favour 
of the suggestion. 

Sambon goes farther than this. He has advanced 
the hypothesis that the hitherto unrecognized proto- 
zoal cause of pellagra is insect-borne, and probably 
by some blood-sucking midge belonging either to the 
Chironomidse or to the Simuliidae. In favour of this 
hypothesis he adduces not only the analogy of malaria 
and trypanosomiasis, but the facts that pellagra is a 
rural and not an urban disease ; that it affects prin- 
cipally field -labourers ; that it occurs in the neigh- 
bourhood of streams or other water bodies. In his 
reports he describes many circumstances observed in 
Italy and elsewhere in support of his views perhaps 
the most telling is that which refers to the islet 
of Burano, in the vicinity of Venice. Pellagra is 
common in Burano and on the neighbouring main- 
land ; but whereas on the mainland the principal 
sufferers are women, in Burano the disease is con- 
fined to men. There are no streams in the town- 
like islet of Burano, and consequently no Simuliidse. 
How account, then, for the local pellagra? And 
how account for the disease being confined to men ? 



XXVII] 



ETIOLOGY 



449 



According to Sambon, the explanation lies in th,e 
circumstance that the men, in their vocation as fisher- 
men, often have occasion to visit the mainland and to 
pass the night there, and are consequently exposed 
to the bites of Simuliidse and other midges ; whereas 
the women, having no occasion to leave the island, 
escape infection. 

.Simuliida are minute (1-4| mm.), thick-set, dark-coloured 
flies, provided with moderately long legs often banded with 
white, and large, broad, transparent wings. They are known 
in America as " buffalo gnats." 
They have a peculiar dancing 
flight, and the females are vicious 
biters (the males are inoffensive). 
The eggs are laid in patches on 
stones or water-weeds, to which 
they become attached. The larvae 
are unmistakable ; they have an 
elongated, club-shaped body, of a 
greenish - brown colour, supplied 
with a large terminal sucker at the 
larger posterior extremity, by means 
of which they attach themselves to 
pebbles, water -weeds, and drift- 
wood. The larva spins a silken 
thread which offers a further means 
of attachment and serves to weave 
the characteristic pocket or slipper- 
like cocoon at the time of pupation. 
The cocoon is open at the larger 
anterior end, from which protrudes 
the anterior portion of the pupa 
with two lateral tufts of long 
feathery filaments. (Figs. 71, 72, 
and 73.) 

Chironomidce. Of this large family only a few genera 
(Culicoides, Leptoconops, Ceratopogon) come under suspicion. 
They are exceedingly minute dusky flies, the females seldom 
more than 1~ or 2 mm. in length. They usually occur in 
swarms, and are chiefly confined to wooded and shady spots 
at the mouth of rivers and in the vicinity of the sea. They 
are among the most irritating and bloodthirsty of insects. 
The larva? are worm-like and transparent. They are aquatic, 
and are found at the surface of stagnant water in ponds, pools, 
hollow tree-stumps, and epiphytic plants. 

Goldberger, who failed to communicate the disease 

to any one of 16 men by the administration of the 

discharges, secretions, and tissues of no fewer than 

67 pellagrins, rejecting the idea of a germ cause of 

p 




Saliv. 
gl. 



Fig. 71. Simulium larva. 
(Drawn by W. McDonald.) 



450 PELLAGRA [CHAP. 

pellagra, quotes experimental evidence to the effect 
that deficient fresh animal and leguminous food arid 
excess of starchy foods induce pellagra. He recom- 
mends a diet in accordance with this view a view 
held by many of his compatriots, and supported, 
though by no means established, by the fact that the 
attendants of pellagrins in asylums and elsewhere do 
not contract the disease as they possibly might were 
it of germ origin. 




Pupa 



.. Cocoon 



Fig. 72. Simulium pupa in cocoon. (Drawn by W. McDonald.) 



Since the establishment of the vitamine theory 
of beriberi and scurvy a similar etiology has been 
suggested for pellagra. 

Symptoms. Pellagra visually begins with feel- 
ings of weakness and a consequent disinclination to 
work, The patient is pale, has a peculiar staring 
look, and complains of headache, giddiness, and vague 



XXVIl] 



SYMPTOMS 



451 



but often severe pains in the back and joints. His 
character changes ; he becomes irritable, and at the 
same time stupid and morose. 

At first the tongue is coated ; later it loses its 
epithelium, the denudation extending not infrequently 
to the palate and gullet, and giving rise to a sore 
condition, often accompanied by a saltish taste and 
copious salivation. The gums may be swollen and 
bleed easily, a condition which gave rise to the name 
"Alpine scurvy." There may be eructations of gas, 
nausea, and vomiting. 
The appetite is variable. 
The epigastric region, 
and sometimes the lower 
part of the abdomen, are 
tense and painful. Con- 
stipation may be present, 
but in many instances 
there is diarrhoea of pale 
fermenting stools resem- 
bling those of sprue, and 
the stools may contain 
blood. 

From the commence- 
ment an erythema, not 
unlike a severe sunburn, 
is observable on those 

parts of the body which Fig. 73. Simuliumnigrogilvum, imago. 

are, as a rule, unclothed (Drawn iy w. McDonald.) 

and exposed to the sun. 

The eruption is symmetrical and characteristic. (See 
Frontispiece.) It appears suddenly, first on the back 
of the hands and feet, then on the forearms, legs, 
chest, neck, face, and, it may be, on the perineum, or 
on the female genitalia. The patches of erythema are 
irregular in outline and intensity. The affected area 
is swollen and tense, and the seat of burning or itch- 
ing sensations which become particularly acute on 
exposure to the sun. The congestion disappears com- 
pletely, but temporarily, on pressure. Petechise are 
common on the affected parts, and blebs may form 
with clear, opaque, or blood-stained contents of feebly 




452 PELLAGRA [CHAP. 

alkaline reaction. The eruption usually lasts about 
a fortnight, and is followed by desquamation, which 
leaves the skin rough, thickened, and permanently 
stained of a light sepia colour. It is on account of 
this roughness of the affected skin that the disease is 
called " pellagra," an Italian word meaning rough skin. 

Implication of the nervous system is indicated 
by tremor of the tongue, exaggerated deep reflexes, 
and mid-dorsal spinal tenderness. The patient suffers 
from obstinate sleeplessness, occasionally from uncon- 
trollable sleepiness. He experiences great weakness, 
especially in the lower extremities, and is subject 
to peculiar attacks of giddiness, with a tendency to 
fall forwards or backwards. Another characteristic 
symptom is a feeling of ourning in the palms of the 
hands and the soles of the feet. " Chvostek's sign," 
mechanical irritability of the facial nerve, is said to 
be present in the majority of cases. 

As a rule there is no marked permanent elevation 
of temperature, but periods of slight fever occur 
irregularly. 

Two or three months after onset the symptoms 
abate and, although the affected skin areas remain 
dark-coloured and rough, the disease appears to be 
arrested. Next spring, however, the whole series 
of phenomena recurs in a more severe form. The 
eruption assumes a darker colour. The depression 
of spirits deepens into melancholia, which may have 
maniacal interludes, with a peculiar tendency to 
suicide, especially by drowning. The general feeling 
of weakness increases, the patient loses weight and 
is unable to work ; his gait becomes uncertain and 
somewhat of the spa.stic paraplegic type. The pains 
in the head and back become very acute, and there 
may be lightning pains, cramps, twitchings, tremors, 
and even epileptiform seizures of the cortical variety. 
Diarrhoea may now be troublesome. 

For several years the disease may thus recur in 
the spring with increasing severity. The patient 
becomes greatly emaciated, paralytic, and completely 
demented. Helpless, bedridden, suffering from incon- 
tinence of urine and uncontrollable diarrhoea, covered 



xxvii] MORBID ANATOMY 453 

with bedsores, and neglected, he dies from exhaustion 
or from some mtercurrent disease. 

The duration of pellagra is exceedingly variable. 
It may last only two or three years ; it usually extends 
to ten, fifteen, or more. 

In a proportion of cases, more especially if the 
patient leaves the endemic area and comes under 
favourable hygienic influences early in the disease, 
recovery may take place. 

Cases differ considerably. In some the nervous 
symptoms predominate, in others the gastro-intestinal, 
in others again the cutaneous. Forms of hyperses 
thesia may occur in different regigns of the body. 
Ocular symptoms, such as ptosis, hemeralopia, diplo- 
pia, amblyopia, mydriasis, are not uncommon. The 
urine is generally alkaline, and may rapidly become 
ammoniacal. It may also contain tube casts and 
traces of albumin. The erythrocytes and haemo- 
globin are diminished. Sambon and Terni in Italy, 
Grigorescu and Galasescu in Roumania, have noticed 
a relative increase of the mononuclear leucocytes, a 
point differentiating the eruption of pellagra from 
ordinary erythemas ; but it cannot be said that, 
although usually disturbed, the differential leucocyte 
count is constant or characteristic. 

A very acute form has been described under the 
name of " pellagra typhus." In this there are intense 
prostration, high temperature, muttering delirium, 
pronounced nervous tremor, generalized rigidity and 
convulsions. 

It has been estimated that in Italy from 4 to 
10 per cent, of the pellagrins become permanently 
insane. Similarly, in the United States of America 
the pellagrins are becoming a notable feature in the 
lunatic asylums. 

Morbid anatomy. The pathological charac- 
teristics essential to pellagra are usually obscured 
by complicating diseases. 

A constant and striking feature is the great 
emaciation. The viscera show chronic degenerative 
changes, particularly fatty degeneration and a char- 
acteristic deep pigmentation. The intestinal walls 



454 PELLAGRA [CHAP. 

are greatly attenuated through wasting of their 
muscular coat, while at the same time the mucous 
lining is hyperaemic and, not infrequently, ulcerated. 
The liver and spleen are usually atrophied. The 
suprarenal capsules may be larger than normal, and 
the cortex may be black, while the medulla is whitish 
in colour, but as a rule they are perfectly normal. 

There may be actual wasting of the brain, and the 
ventricles may be distended by an excess of fluid. 
In the cord the lateral columns and the crossed pyra- 
midal tract are especially implicated, but the direct 
cerebellar tracts usually escape. The anterior cornual 
cells are frequently atrophied and deeply pigmented. 
The posterior columns do not escape, the median 
portion being often degenerated. The degenerative 
changes in the lateral columns are chiefly in the 
middle and lower third of the dorsal region, those of 
the posterior columns principally in the cervical and 
upper dorsal region. 

Mott (Brit. Med. Journ., July 3rd, 1913) has 
given a detailed account of the histological changes 
in the nervous systems of two cases of pellagra one 
of English, the other of Egyptian origin. He re- 
marks as to the changes in the cerebrum, cerebellum, 
pons, medulla, and spinal cord, that in none of the 
sections was there any evidence of meningeal or 
peri vascular infiltration with lymphocytes, plasma 
cells, or polymorphonuclear leucocytes. This absence 
of chronic meningo-encephalitis, a chronic inflam- 
matory condition so characteristic of certain proto- 
zoal diseases, contraindicates the protozoal theory of 
pellagra, although it cannot be said to disprove it, 
for in malaria the vessels may be crowded with 
parasites and yet no perivascular or meningeal re- 
action be detectable. Moreover, although all the 
changes were like those produced by a chronic 
toxaemia, the cause of that toxaemia has not been 
demonstrated. All the posterior spinal ganglia cells 
showed, in varying degree, a marked chromatolysis, 
swelling of cells, and disappearance of Nissl's granules, 
and all the anterior horn cells and their hornologues 
in the medulla and pons a varying degree of peri- 



xxvii] DIAGNOSIS TREATMENT 455 

nuclear chromatolysis. There was marked chromato- 
lysis of the cells of Clarke's columns. The Betz 
cells of the cortex and the cells of Purkinje showed 
similar changes, but in a less degree. 

Diagnosis. Of course, doubtful cases are occa- 
sionally encountered, but a localized erythema asso- 
ciated with nervous symptoms, particularly mental 
symptoms, great debility and seasonal recurrence, in 
a person in or coming from a pellagrous district, can 
hardly be confounded with any other disease. 

Treatment. Arsenic in large doses is now 
regarded as a drug of value in the treatment of 
pellagra. Fowler's solution by mouth 5 drops two 
or three times daily, increased by 1 drop daily until 
evidences of a toxic nature are induced or hypo- 
dermically in combination with carbonate of soda 
(3 to 5 gr.) two or three times a week, is said to be 
productive of good results if given early in the 
disease, and, of course, combined with good hygienic 
conditions and removal from the endemic area. 
Atoxyl, soamin, and salvarsan have also been com- 
mended. No case should be regarded as cured 
until the patient has been absolutely free from all 
symptoms for at least two years. 

In its advanced stage the disease is practically in- 
curable. In Italy the Government, basing its action 
on the maize theory of pellagra, has provided grain- 
drying appliances for bakeries, and other hygienic 
advantages, including better house accommodation, 
also special asylums (pellagrosari) for the treatment 
of the disease in its earlier stages. It is stated that 
a decrease of the malady has followed these measures. 
Notwithstanding, pellagra seems to have increased 
of late years, especially round Perugia and in other 
districts of northern Italy in which these measures 
have been most strictly carried out. 

As there has been no instance of a nurse or 
attendant in any of the lunatic asylums of the 
United States acquiring the disease, it is evident 
that pellagra is not a directly communicable disease, 
and that therefore any apprehension on this account 
is unwarranted. 



Section III. ABDOMINAL DISEASES 

CHAPTER XXVIII 
CHOLERA 

Definition. An acute, infectious, epidemic disease, 
characterized by profuse purging and vomiting of a 
colourless serous material, muscular cramps, sup- 
pression of urine, algidity and collapse, the presence 
of a special bacterium in the intestine and intestinal 
discharges, and a high mortality. 

History and geographical distribution. 
It is probable that from remotest antiquity cholera 
has been endemic in Lower Bengal,* and that thence, 
from time to time, it has spread as an epidemic over 
the rest of India. European physicians observed it- 
there in the sixteenth, seventeenth, and eighteenth 
centuries, but it was not until the great epidemic 
extension of 1817 that the disease seriously attracted 
the attention of the profession in Europe. In that 
year cholera began to spread all over Asia, extending 
eastwards as far as Pekin and Japan, southwards to 
Mauritius, and westwards to Syria and the eastern 
shores of the Caspian. Stopping short at Astrakhan 
in 1825, it did not on that occasion invade Europe. 

European epidemics. In 1830 cholera visited 
Europe for the first time. Advancing through 
Afghanistan and Persia, it entered by way of 
Russia, and swept as an epidemic over nearly the 
entire continent, reaching Britain at the beginning 

* Though it is customary to speak of Lower Bengal as the home 
of cholera, it is by no means certain that other Eastern localities 
have not some claim to a similar distinction Bangkok, Canton, and 
Shanghai, for example. Dr. Henderson, in his health reports, 
indicates that the disease is rarely absent during the summer 
months from the last-named city ; the same may be said of Bangkok 
and of Canton. 

456 



ETIOLOGY 457 

of 1832. During the same summer it crossed the 
Atlantic to Canada and the United States. This 
epidemic did not die out in Europe till 1839. Since 
that time there have been at least five European epi- 
demics 1848-51, 1851-55, 1865-74, 1884-86, and 
1892-95. Minor epidemics have occurred in Europe 
since, but they have been restricted in area. During 
the Balkan War of 1913, and in the course of the 
European War, especially in the Balkans and in 
Mesopotamia, there have been many outbreaks of 
cholera, but up to the present the disease has not ex- 
tended as an epidemic beyond the seat of war. 

Great Britain has been seriously involved in 
four only of these epidemics namely, in 1832, 1848, 
1854-55, and in 1866. On the occasion of the last 
two European epidemics, although the disease was 
frequently imported, it did not spread in Britain. 
America has not been so fortunate, for, although the 
1870-73 epidemic practically spared Great Britain, it 
crossed the Atlantic and, entering by way of Jamaica 
and New Orleans, raged for a time in the United 
States. 

From a study of the march of these various epi- 
demics, it is to be concluded that cholera reaches 
Europe by three distinct routes : (1) via Afghani- 
stan, Persia, the Caspian Sea, and the Volga valley ; 
(2) via the Persian Gulf, Syria, Asia Minor, Turkey 
in Europe, and the Mediterranean; (3) via the Red 
Sea, Egypt, and the Mediterranean. 

With certain exceptions, hereafter to be mentioned, 
there is hardly an important country in the world 
which has not, at one time or another, been visited 
by cholera in the course of some of its pandemic 
extensions. 

Etiology. The disease is carried by man. 
A study of the various epidemics shows that in its 
spread cholera follows the great routes of human 
intercourse, and that it is conveyed chiefly by man 
probably in its principal extensions by man alone 
from place to place. In Britain and the United 
States, for example, the places first attacked have 
been invariably seaports in direct and active com- 



458 CHOLEEA [CHAP. 

munication with other ports already infected. In 
India, although the problem is much more difficult 
to unravel, in certain instances the influence of 
human intercourse in diffusing the disease can be 
distinctly traced. Thus the extensive pilgrimages, 
so frequent in that country, are a fruitful source of 
its rapid spread. During these gatherings hundreds 
of thousands of human beings are collected together 
under highly insanitary conditions as at the Hurdwar 
and Mecca pilgrimages. Cholera breaks out among 
the devotees, who, when they separate, carry the dis- 
ease along with them as they proceed towards their 
homes, infecting the people of the places they 
pass through. Cholera never travels faster than a 
man can travel; but in modern times, owing to 
the increased speed of locomotion and the increased 
amount of travel, epidemics advance more rapidly 
and pursue a more erratic course than they did sixty 
years ago. 

Isolation secures immunity. In the case of 
isolated countries the absence of active and frequent 
intercourse with the outer world favours immunity, 
even during approximately pandemic extensions. 
Thus, though so near to the reputed home of cholera 
the Andaman Islands have never been visited by 
that disease. Similarly, Australia and New Zealand 
hitherto have enjoyed practical exemption. The 
same can be said of the Pacific Islands, the Cape 
of Good Hope, the West Coast of Africa, Orkney 
and Shetland, Iceland, the Faroe Islands, and many 
of the islands of the Atlantic. 

Unequal diffusion in the endemic and epidemic 
areas. Although cholera is always present in some 
part of the endemic area in Bengal, it is not equally 
diffused there, nor is it equally common at all seasons 
and every year. Thus, even within this area there are 
places which enjoy an absolute or a relative immunity, 
and there are seasons and years of special prevalence. 
It has also to be remarked that the season of immunity 
for one place may be the season for prevalence in 
another place, and vice versa. The same observations 
apply to the areas of epidemic extension. 



xxvm] A WATER-BORNE DISEASE 459 

When cholera extends as an epidemic, its course 
is often singularly erratic. Some places, apparently 
in the direct line of advance, are passed over, to 
be attacked, perhaps, at a later period. Similarly, 
certain districts of a town may be spared, while other 
parts of the same town are ravaged by the disease. 

Local conditions favouring the presence of cholera. 
On the whole, it may be said that low-lying 
districts, particularly those along river banks, are 
more subject to the disease than high and dry 
situations ; and that overcrowding and unhygienic 
conditions generally conduce to its prevalence. The 
principal and special element, however, which deter- 
mines the diffusion of cholera is, undoubtedly, the 
character of the water supply. 

Cholera in the main a water-borne disease, entering 
by the stomach. From time to time many theories of 
the cause and nature of cholera have been put 
forward, most of them very absurd and manifestly 
incorrect. Most of these have now been definitely 
abandoned in favour of the theory that the cause of 
cholera is a specific germ which, for the most part, is 
water-borne. The evidence in favour of this view 
may be regarded as being almost conclusive, although 
there Is still some room for doubting whether the 
germ itself has really been discovered. 

The earliest, and still one of the most telling 
pieces of evidence in favour of the water-borne theory 
of the diffusion of cholera, we owe to the late 
Dr. Snow. In August, 1854, cholera was epidemic 
in parts of London, notably in the neighbourhood 
of Golden Square, Soho. A child, after an ill- 
ness of three or four days, died of the disease at 
40, Broad Street, on the 2nd of September. The 
discharges from the patient had been thrown into a 
leaky cesspool which, as was subsequently discovered, 
drained into a well only three feet away. This well 
supplied the neighbourhood with drinking-water. On 
the night of the 31st of August cholera broke out 
among those who used the Avater of this particular 
well, very few escaping an attack. On the 2nd of 
September a lady died of cholera at Hampstead 



460 CHOLERA [CHAP. 

Attention was specially called to this lady's case, as 
hitherto the disease had not been seen in that district. 
On inquiry it was found that she had been habitually 
supplied with drinking-water from the Broad Street 
well referred to, as she had formerly resided in 
Broad Street, and had retained a liking for the water 
from this particular well. She drank some of the 
water which had been procured ontha 31st of August, 
both on that day and again on the 1st of September. 
On the latter day she was seized with cholera. A 
niece, on a visit to this lady, also drank some of the 
same water ; she, too, was attacked by cholera, and 
died. A servant also drank the water ; although she 
suffered to some extent, she recovered. So far as 
could be ascertained by careful inquiry, these people 
had had no connection whatever with the cholera 
district except through the water fetched from this 
particular Broad Street well. Cholera, as mentioned, 
was not epidemic at Hampstead at the time. The 
inference that 'the germ had been conveyed in the 
polluted water is difficult to avoid. 

Another remarkable illustration of the diffusion of 
the cholera germ by water is supplied by a recent 
epidemic in Hamburg. At the time the sanitary 
conditions under which the inhabitants of the con- 
tiguous cities of Hamburg, Altona, and Wandsbeck 
lived were practically identical, save in the matter 
of water supply. Hamburg and Altona both drew 
their water from the Elbe ; but, whereas the water 
distributed to the people of Altona was most carefully 
filtered, that supplied to the people of Hamburg was 
simply pumped up from the river and passed directly 
into the mains without filtration or purification of 
any description. The Wandsbeck water came from 
a lake, and was filtered. In Hamburg, during the 
epidemic, there were 8,605 deaths from cholera, equal 
to 134 per thousand; whereas in Altona only 328 
deaths occurred, equal to 2'1 per thousand. The death- 
rate in Wandsbeck was similar to that of Altona. 
Hamburg and Altona are contiguous, and practically 
one city. At one part a street forms the boundary 
between the municipalities. On one side of this 



xxvni] RELATION TO WATER SUPPLY 461 

street, the Hamburg side, there were numerous cases 
of cholera ; on the Altona side there were no cases. 
The houses on both sides of the street were of the 
same character and occupied by the same class of 
people. The only difference, so far as could be ascer- 
tained, was in the water supply : the houses on the 
healthy side of the street received Altona water ; 
those on the cholera-stricken side, Hamburg water. 
It was remarked that a certain group of houses on 
the Hamburg side remained free from the disease. On 
investigation it was found that, unlike the other 
houses on the same side, these houses derived their 
water supply from an Altona main. 

As regards its relation to the water supply, this 
Hamburg epidemic is the exact counterpart of what 
happened in South London in 1854. Formerly this 
district was supplied with water by two companies 
the Southwark and Yauxhall Company and the Lam- 
beth Company. Both companies drew their water 
from the Thames the latter from near Hungerford 
Bridge, the former from near Battersea Fields. The 
epidemic of cholera which visited London in 1849 
was especially severe in South London. Subsequently 
the Lambeth Company removed its intake higher up 
the river to Thames Ditton, and consequently the 
water it supplied at the time of the 1854 epidemic 
had improved in quality. The Southwark and Vaux- 
hall Company did not change their intake, and in 
1854 they were still drawing their supply from the 
river near Battersea Fields. When cholera visited 
London in that year the death-rate from the disease 
in the houses supplied by the Southwark and Vaux- 
hall Company amounted to 153 per 10,000 inhabitants, 
whereas that in houses supplied by the Lambeth Com- 
pany was only 26 per 10,000. The mains of the two 
companies ran side by side, some houses receiving 
the water of one company, some that of the other. 

During the Hamburg epidemic it was also found 
that the incidence of cholera was three times greater 
among those who used the town water than among 
those who got their supplies from wells. 

These and many similar facts which might be 



462 CHOLERA [CHAP. 

adduced clearly point to water as a principal medium 
for the diffusion of the cholera germ. 

The virus contained in the dejecta. Evidence 
equally conclusive tends to show that the germ 
on being swallowed by man multiplies in his ali- 
mentary canal, and, on being voided in the dejecta, 
subsequently finds its way by a route more or less 
direct to water again, in which, under favourable 
conditions, it continues still further to multiply. An 
illustration, amounting almost to proof, of the fact 
that the germ of cholera is contained in the stools of 
cholera patients is supplied by Macnamara. Some of 
the characteristic rice-water discharge from a cholera 
patient got mixed accidentally with a few gallons 
of water. This was exposed to the sun for twelve 
hours. Early the following morning 19 persons 
each drank about an ounce of the mixture. Within 
thirty-six hours 5 of these 19 persons were seized 
with cholera. 

Conditions of infection are complex. It is evident 
that the ingestion of the germ is a necessary con- 
dition for the production of the disease, but there 
are many facts which render it equally evident that 
this is not the only condition. Were it the only con- 
dition, then every one of those individuals referred to 
by Macnamara would have sickened. What the other 
necessary conditions may be it is, in the present state 
of knowledge, impossible to say. 

There is reason to believe that not only are the 
conditions complicated as regards the susceptibility of 
the individual, but also that they are equally com- 
plex as regards the germ itself in relation to its 
pathogenic, proliferating, and diffusing properties. 

The germ of cholera. Early views. Since 
European pathologists first directed their attention to 
the subject, many views have been entertained as 
to the exact nature of the cause of cholera. Some of 
these views were of the most fantastic description. 
Mysterious atmospheric and telluric conditions were 
invoked, and only a very few years ago superstitious 
notions worthy of the Middle Ages were freely 
ventilated, even in high places and by educated minds. 



xxvin] THE COMMA BACILLUS 463 

Among those who ventured to formulate definite and 
more reasonable hypotheses, some considered that 
cholera, like the more familiar exanthematous fevers, 
was directly contagious. Others thought that it was 
not directly contagious, but that it was communicated 
by the evacuations of the sick after these evacuations 
had undergone some peculiar fermentation process out- 
side the human body. Others again, as von Petten- 
kofer, regarded the virus as a chemical ferment which 
developed in the soil under certain unknown epidemic 
conditions. 

Discovery of the comma bacillus* Since the rise 
of the germ theory of infective disease most of these 
speculations have been definitely abandoned, or have 
received more precise expression in the view that 
cholera is caused by a certain bacterium, known as 
the comma bacillus or cholera vibrio, which Koch 
found to be present, practically invariably, in the 
stools and intestinal contents of cholera patients. 
This bacterium Koch first discovered in Egypt in 
1883. Believing in its importance, he afterwards 
proceeded to India on a special mission, and there, 
in Calcutta, in 1884, he found the same bacterium 
in the intestinal contents of 42 fatal cases, and in 
the stools of 30 other cholera patients ; in fact, he 
found it in every case of the disease examined. 
Moreover, he entirely failed to find it in any other 
disease or in healthy discharges. These observations, 
so far as they concern the presence of the comma 
bacillus in cholera stools, have been abundantly 
confirmed by many other workers ; so that the 
presence or absence of this bacterium is now regarded 
as a trustworthy and valuable practical test of the 
choleraic or non-choleraic nature of any given case of 
intestinal flux; and this even by the opponents of 
Koch's special view as to the nature of the relation- 
ship of the bacterium in question to the disease with 
which it is so intimately associated. If only on 
account of its diagnostic value, the comma bacillus, 
therefore, is an organism of importance ; but as many 

* "Bacillus" is a bad term for this organism, which is 
really a spirillum. 



464: CHOLERA [CHAP. 

high authorities regard it as a necessary concomitant 
and even as the actual germ and true cause of Asiatic 
cholera, the vibrio acquires an importance of the first 
rank. 

Description of the comma bacillus. The comma 
bacillus (Fig. 77) is a very minute organism, 1*5 to 
2 /x in length by 0*5 to 0'6 /z in diameter about 
half the length and twice the thickness of the 
tubercle bacillus. It is generally slightly curved, 
like a comma ; hence its name. After appro- 




Fig. 77. Cholera bacillus. Agar culture : 24 hours' growth. 
x 1,000. (Muir and Ritchie.) 

priate staining, at each end, or at one end only, 
nagella can be distinguished sometimes one, some- 
times (though less frequently) two. These nagella, 
though of considerable length from one to five times 
that of the body of the bacterium owing to their 
extreme tenuity are difficult to see in ordinary 
preparations. They are not always present during 
the entire life of the parasite. In virtue of this 
appendage the bacillus exhibits very active spirillum- 
like movements. The individual bacilli when stained 
show darker parts at the ends or at the centre, 
suggesting spore formation. Sometimes in cultiva- 



xxvin] THE COMMA BACILLUS 465 

tions two or more bacilli are united, in which case 
an S-shaped body is the result; or it may happen 
that several bacilli are thus united together, pro- 
ducing a spirillar appearance. 

The comma bacillus is easily stained by watery 
solutions of fuchsin, or by Loffler's method, dried 
cover-glass films being used. It is decolorized by 
Gram. Dilute solution of methyl violet mixed with 
the intestinal contents and placed on a slide suffices 
for partial staining. 

The bacillus grows best in alkaline media at 
a temperature of from 30 to 40 C. Growth is 
arrested below 15, or above 42 C. ; a tempera- 
ture over 50 C. kills the bacillus. Meat broth, 
blood serum, nutrient gelatin, and potato are all suit- 
able culture media. It multiplies rapidly without 
curdling in milk. It dies rapidly in distilled water ; 
it survives longer if salt be added to the water.* 
For diagnostic purposes nutrient gelatin and potato 
are the most convenient culture media. 

In gelatin plate cultivations minute white points 
appear ; around these the gelatin liquefies, and the 
colonies of bacilli sink into funnel- or bubble-shaped 
depressions. By the end of the second or third day 
the culture is besprinkled with such depressions, 
liquefaction spreading peripherally until it involves 
the entire surface of the gelatin. The colonies are 
white or yellowish, very irregular in shape, granular, 
and shining like so many particles of ground glass. 
Later they assume a peculiar roseate hue, said to be 
absolutely characteristic. 

In gelatin stab cultures the growth at first is 
most active near the surface ; later, the colony sink- 
ing, liquefaction advances most below the surface of 
the gelatin, so that a bubble-shaped appearance is 
produced. Later still, as growth proceeds along 
the needle track, a finger-shaped liquefaction results, 
which in time extends to the sides of the tube. At 
the bottom of the liquefied area there is an accumu- 

* Gelarie found that cultures of the vibrio lived for at least 
285 days in sterilized sea-water ; whilst they died in less than one 
day in sterilized tap-water. 



466 CHOLERA [CHAP. 

lation of a white mass of bacteria ; at the top a 
scum of bacteria in various stages of degeneration. 
The cultures may die after five or six weeks. 

Agar is not liquefied, and in it the cultivations re- 
tain their vitality longer. On potato, at 20 to 30 C., 
the culture appears as a thin, brownish, porcelain-like 
film. In broth some of the bacilli form a scum on 
the surface ; others, falling in masses to the bottom, 
leave the body of the liquid clear.* 

Although, taken together and in conjunction with 
the morphological appearances, these culture charac- 
ters are fairly distinctive, nevertheless certain other 
bacteria, such as Tinkler's spirillum, behave very 
similarly ; and, as the microscopic features of those 
other bacteria in some instances are very much like 
those of the cholera vibrio, a mistake is easily made. 
The production of what is known as " cholera red " 
by the addition of pure sulphuric acid to a culture in 
peptonized broth is also not quite distinctive of the 
cholera vibrio, for a similar reaction (indol reaction) 
is produced by some other bacilli. 

In careful and practised hands the diagnosis of 
cholera by the microscopic and cultural characters of 
the vibrio may be made with practical certainty. 

Is the comma bacillus the germ of cholera ? 
Although it may be safely asserted that cholera is 
intimately associated with the comma bacillus, it does 
not necessarily follow that this organism is the cause 
of cholera. Many attempts have been and are being 
made to establish such a relationship. -Nevertheless, 
what may be considered as absolute proof is still 
wanting such proofs as alone can be afforded by 
the production in man, or in the lower animals, of a 
disease in every respect like cholera by the adminis- 
tration of pure cultures of the comma bacillus. Short 
of this the proof may be said to be almost complete ; 
indeed, by not a few the causal relationship of the 
bacillus to the disease is considered as established. 

* Opinions differ as to whether or not the cholera vibrio is 
haemolytic to a suspension of sheep's corpuscles. Stroiip, in the 
Philippines, found that all vibrios which agglutinated with a 
cholera serum were genuine cholera vibrios, and that none of 
them were hsemolytic. 



xxvni] THE COMMA BACILLUS 467 

Since Koch first announced his discovery many 
facts having a bearing on the subject have been 
brought to light, some in favour of his views, some 
apparently militating against them. 

1. It has been found that there are several 
bacilli with morphological and cultural characters 
closely resembling those of the cholera comma, not- 
ably the Finkler-Prior bacillus of cholera nostras, 
Lewis's saliva comma bacillus, many of the comma- 
shaped bacilli discovered by Cunningham, and cer- 
tain species found in river-water. Koch and others 
maintain that, though morphologically similar, as 
these various bacilli behave so differently from that 
of cholera in culture media, they must be considered 
as biologically specifically distinct from the latter. 

2. Cultures of pure bacilli have many times been 
swallowed by way of experiment ; yet, although in 
some instances diarrhoea with comma bacilli in the 
stools has resulted, in only a very few instances 
has true cholera been produced. On this account 
it is held by some that the comma bacillus cannot 
be regarded as the germ of cholera. Against this 
it is advanced that other factors must be present 
to ensure the induction of cholera by such experi- 
ments ; for example, a suitable and peculiar con- 
dition of the body, possibly, as Buchner suggests, 
some second and as yet unknown micro-organism. 
Buchner accordingly regards cholera as the result of 
a mixed infection. It is to be presumed, therefore, 
that in the two or three instances in which cholera 
followed on the intentional or accidental ingestion of 
cultures of the cholera vibrio, these secondary but 
essential conditions were present. It must be re- 
membered also, in assessing the value of negative 
feeding experiments, that the cholera vibrio, like 
other pathogenic bacteria, may lose through cultiva- 
tion, or otherwise, its virulence while retaining its 
morphological and cultural qualities. 

3. A few cases of what, from a clinical point of 
view, appears to be true cholera have been observed 
in which the most careful and prolonged bacterio- 
logical examinations failed to detect the comma bacil- 



468 CHOLERA [CHAP. 

lus. Therefore, it has been advanced, as cholera 
can occur without the comma bacillus, the comma 
bacillus cannot be the cause of cholera. Against 
this it has been said that these observations were 
defective ; that although the bacillus was not found, 
it by no means follows that the bacillus was not 
present at some time in the case. 

4. The comma bacillus has been observed in the 
stools of individuals who did not at the time or after- 
wards suffer from cholera. To this it is answered 
that although one of the necessary conditions for the 
production of cholera was present, others, equally 
necessary, were absent. Possibly, as Pettenkofer re- 
marked, for the production of an attack of cholera 
three things may be necessary, X, Y, and Z. The 
comma bacillus may be the X, but in the absence of 
the Y, certain local, and of the Z, certain personal 
conditions, disease does not result. 

5. It has been found impossible by the administra- 
tion of comma bacilli to produce in the lower animals 
true cholera, or any condition with clinical symp- 
toms closely resembling cholera. Koch and others, 
in certain experiments on guineapigs, acting on the 
supposition that the acid in the stomach killed the 
bacillus, neutralized this by the administration of 
sodium carbonate, and paralysed the intestine by 
intraperitoneal injections of tincture of opium. In 
this way they claim to have succeeded in killing 
guineapigs with symptoms to a certain extent like 
those of cholera. There are many sources of fallacy in 
this experiment, as has been pointed out by Klein and 
others. Exactly similar results can be got by using the 
Finkler-Prior and other bacilli. The most promising 
experiments in this direction are those by Jablotny 
on the ground squirrel, Spermophilus guttatus. By 
administering to this animal comma cultures in alka- 
line media a disease in many respects like cholera was 
produced ; and, in the intestines and discharges of 
the animals experimented on, cholera-like pathological 
changes were found, as well as comma bacilli. 

Variability of the cholera microbe. Bacterio- 
logical studies, always difficult, are extremely so in 



xxvm] THE COMMA BACILLUS 469 

the case of the cholera microbe owing to its special 
liability to variation, both in its morphological and 
in its pathogenic characters. On this subject Haff- 
kine remarks : " When the cholera bacillus was first 
discovered its properties were described with extreme 
precision, which helped in concentrating for a long time 
all studies on well-defined and carefully chosen speci- 
mens. Little by little, as the field of observation grew 
larger, a number of varieties have been found with 
characteristics differing so largely as to annihilate 
almost completely the original description. When we 
open the intestine of deceased cholera patients and in- 
vestigate the microbes there, the adopted methods will 
bring to the surface vibrios in which the external 
forms, instead of the characteristic comma or spirillum, 
will vary between a coccus and a straight thread ; the 
number and disposition of the cilia, the secretion of 
acids, the form of growth in broth, will vary ; instead 
of giving in gelatin a discrete and well-defined figure 
of liquefaction, the variation will extend from the 
complete loss of this property to a rapid dissolution of 
the whole medium ; there will be varieties which 
grow luxuriantly in given media, and others which do 
not grow there at all ; some will be phosphorescent in 
the dark, and others not; some will give the indol 
reaction, and others will be deprived of this property, 
and so on. The first thing to be done is to select 
carefully among these the most typical specimens, 
rejecting the others, and then to try their pathogenic 
power. We shall find such a divergence in strength 
that the extreme forms will not be believed to be the 
cholera species. There will be commas deprived of 
any virulence demonstrable on animals, and others 
which will kill the most resistant species. Some will 
be fatal to a guineapig at a dose of -^ of a culture 
tube, and others harmless in doses 500 times stronger. 
The average comma dies out when introduced under 
the skin of an adult animal ; others will spread in 
the system and give rise to a fatal septicaemia. The 
ordinary comma will be without effect on birds ; but 
several specimens have been isolated, and believed to 
be typical, which 1 easily killed pigeons by hypodermic 



470 CHOLERA [CHAP. 

or intramuscular injection. I believe to be of great 
value the method worked out by Pfeiffer for com- 
paring all such varieties with one selected as typical, 
which he employed for the preparation of an antitoxic 
serum. This method will be found of efficient help 
in distinguishing specimens of the greatest affinity 
with the average cholera comma. But once such 
specimens are selected and their particular properties 
studied, they begin to change from the first day 
they are introduced into the laboratory, and no 
calculation based on these studies is possible. In 
a case quoted by Metchnikoff, the proportion of the 
initial power of the microbe, and the strength it 
showed at a later trial, was as 75 to 1, the microbe 
having gradually sunk to T X T of its initial virulence." 
These remarks, by so great a master of the subject, 
whilst they indicate a way of reconciling many ap- 
parent discrepancies in matters of fact and differences 
in the conclusions arrived at by different bacteri- 
ologists, and whilst they indicate a key to many of 
the clinical features of cholera, teach us caution in 
accepting as proved the causal relationship of the 
cholera vibrio to the disease with which it is so 
invariably associated. 

Symptoms. An attack of cholera commences 
in one of two ways : either it may supervene in the 
course of what appears to be an ordinary case of 
diarrhoea, or it may come on suddenly and without 
any well-marked prodromal stage. During cholera 
epidemics diarrhoea is unusually prevalent. It is a 
common observation that at such times an attack of 
this latter nature, after a day or two, may assume the 
characters of true cholera. The preliminary looseness 
in such cases is called the "premonitory diarrhoea." 
Whether this looseness is specifically related to the 
subsequent attack, or is of an ordinary catarrhal or 
bilious type and acts simply by predisposing to the 
specific disease, has not been determined. Possibly, 
owing to a catarrhal condition in itself non-specific 
the resisting power of the mucous membrane is 
impaired ; possibly, in diarrhoea, the large amount 
of fluid in the gut affords a favourable medium 



xxvin] SYMPTOMS 471 

for the cholera germ to multiply in. Besides diar- 
rhoea, other prodromata, such as languor, depression 
of spirits, noises in the ears, etc., are sometimes 
noted. 

When true cholera sets in, profuse watery stools, 
painless or associated with griping, and at first faecal 
in character, pour, one after the other, from the 
patient. Quickly the stools lose their faecal character, 
becoming colourless or, rather, like thin rice-water con- 
taining small white flocculi in suspension. Enormous 
quantities pints of this material are generally 
passed by the patient. Presently vomiting, also pro- 
fuse, at first perhaps of food, but very soon of the 
same rice-water description, supervenes. Cramps of 
an agonizing character attack the extremities and 
abdomen ; the implicated muscles stand out like rigid 
bars, or are thrown into lumps from the violence of 
the contractions. The patient may rapidly pass into 
a state of collapse. In consequence principally of the 
loss of fluid by the diarrhoea and vomiting, the soft 
parts shrink, the cheeks fall in, the nose becomes 
pinched and thin, the eyes sunken, and the skin of 
the fingers shrivelled like a washerwoman's. The 
surface of the body becomes cold, livid, and bedewed 
with a clammy sweat ; the urine and bile are sup- 
pressed ; respiration is rapid and shallow ; the breath 
is cold and the voice is sunk to a whisper. The pulse 
soon becomes thready, weak, and rapid, and then, 
after coming and. going and feebly fluttering, may 
disappear entirely. The surface temperature sinks 
several degrees below normal to 93 or 94 F. ; 
whilst that in the rectum may be several degrees 
above normal 101 to 105 F. The patient is now 
restless, tossing about uneasily,' throwing his arms 
from side to side, feebly complaining of intense thirst 
and of a burning feeling in the chest, and racked 
with cramps. Although apathetic, the mind generally 
remains clear. In other instances the patient may 
wander or may pass into a comatose state. 

This, the "algide stage" of cholera, may ter- 
minate in one of three ways in death, in rapid 
convalescence, or in febrile reaction. 



472 CHOLERA [CHAP. 

When death from collapse supervenes, it may do 
so at any time from two to thirty hours from the com- 
mencement of the seizure, usually in from ten to twelve. 
On the other hand, the gradual cessation of vomiting 
and purging, the reappearance of the pulse at the 
wrist, and the return of some warmth to the surface 
may herald convalescence. In such a case, after 
many hours' absence, the secretion of urine returns, 
and in a few days the patient may be practically 
well again. Usually, however, a condition, known as 
the " stage of reaction," gradually supervenes on the 
algide stage. 

Reaction; cholera typhoid. When the patient 
enters on this stage the surface of the body becomes 
warmer, the pulse returns, the face fills out, restless- 
ness disappears, urine may be secreted, and the 
motions diminish in number and amount, becoming 
bilious at the same time. Coincidently with the sub- 
sidence of the more urgent symptoms of the algide 
stage and this general improvement in the appear- 
ance of the patient, a febrile condition of greater or 
less severity may develop. Minor degrees of this re- 
action generally subside in a few hours ; but in more 
severe cases the febrile state becomes aggravated, 
and a condition in many respects closely resem- 
bling typhoid fever, " cholera typhoid," ensues. This 
febrile or possibly typhoid state may last from four or 
five days to perhaps a fortnight or even longer. In 
severe cases the face is flushed, the tongue brown 
and dry, and there may be delirium of a low typhoid 
character with tremor and subsultus ; or the patient 
may sink into a peculiar torpid condition. The 
motions are now either greenish or like pea-soup, and 
may contain a larger or smaller amount of blood ; at 
the same time they are very offensive. The reappear- 
ance of urine may be delayed from two to six days ; 
at first scanty, high-coloured, cloudy, albuminous, 
and containing casts, it gradually becomes more 
profuse, paler, and with less albumin. Though at 
first the urine is very deficient in urea, in uric acid, 
and in salts, later the quantity of these substances 
may exceed for a time the normal 



REACTION 473 

During the stage of reaction death may occur 
from a variety of complications ; from pneumonia, from 
enteritis and diarrhoea, from asthenia, or from such 
effects of ursemic poisoning as coma and convulsions. 

In cholera there is a considerable variety in the 
character of the symptoms and in their severity, both 
as regards individual cases and as regards different 
epidemics. It is generally stated that during an 
epidemic the earlier cases are the more severe, those 
occurring towards the end of the epidemic being on 
the whole milder. 

Ambulatory cases occur during all epidemics. 
Such cases are characterized by diarrhoea and malaise 
merely ; there is never complete suppression of urine, 
the diarrhoea never loses its bilious character, and it 
is not accompanied by cramps. The attack gradually 
subsides without developing a subsequent stage of 
reaction. 

Cholerine. In another set of cases the diarrhoea 
may be somewhat more acute, and the stools assume 
the well-known rice-water appearance ; but the loose- 
ness soon ceases without leading to suppression of 
urine, or to algide symptoms, or even to very severe 
cramps, and without being followed by a stage of 
reaction. Such cases are sometimes designated 
"choleraic diarrhoea" or "cholerine." 

Cholera sicca. A very fatal type is that known 
as " cholera sicca." In these cases, though there is no, 
or very little, diarrhoea or vomiting, collapse sets in 
so rapidly that the patient is quickly overpowered as 
by an overwhelming dose of some poison, and dies 
in a few hours without purging or any attempt at 
reaction. At the post-mortem examination the rice- 
water material, so characteristic of cholera, though it 
may not have been voided during life, is found in 
abundance in the bowel. Other cases die suddenly 
from apnoea caused, apparently, either by coagula 
in the right heart, or by spasm of the pulmonary 
arterioles, the lungs refusing to transmit the thickened 
blood. In certain cases, after temporary improve- 
ment relapse may occur and is nearly always 
fatal. 



474 CHOLERA [CHAP. 

Hyperpyrexia is an occasional though rare occur- 
rence in cholera. In such the axillary temperature 
may rise to 107 F., the rectal temperature perhaps to 
109 F. These cases also are almost invariably fatal. 

Sequelae. Cholera is apt to be followed by a variety 
of more or less important sequelae, such as anaemia, 
mental and physical debility, insomnia, pyretic con- 
ditions, chronic enterocolitis, nephritis, different forms 
of pulmonary inflammation, parotitis apt to end in 
abscess, ulceraticn of the corneae, bedsores, and gan- 
grene of different parts of the body. Jaundice 
occurs at times, and is said to be of the gravest 
import. Pregnant women almost invariably miscarry, 
the foetus showing evidences of cholera. 

Morbid anatomy and pathology. Rigor 
mortis occurs early and persists for a considerable 
time. Curious movements of the limbs may take 
place in consequence of post-mortem muscular con- 
tractions. On dissection the most characteristic 
pathological appearances in cholera are those con- 
nected with the circulation and with the intestinal 
tract. 

If death have occurred during the algide stage, 
the surface presents the shrunken and livid appear- 
ance already described. On opening the body all the 
tissues are found to be abnormally dry. The muscles 
are dark and firm ; sometimes one or more of them are 
discovered to be ruptured evidently from the vio- 
lence of the cramps during life. The right side of the 
heart and systemic veins are full of dark, thick, and 
imperfectly coagulated blood, which tends to cling to 
the inner surface of the vessels. Fibrinous clots, ex- 
tending into the vessels, may be found in the right 
heart. The lungs are usually anaemic, dry, and 
shrunken ; occasionally they may be congested and 
redematous. The pulmonary arteries are distended 
with blood, the pulmonary veins empty. The liver 
is generally loaded with blood ; the gall-bladder full 
of bile ; the spleen small. Like all the other serous 
cavities, the peritoneum contains no fluid, its sur- 
face being dry and sticky. The outer surface of the 
bowel has generally a diffuse rosy red. occasionally 



xxvin] MORBID ANATOMY 475 

an injected appearance. On opening the bowel it 
is found to contain a larger or smaller amount of the 
characteristic rice-water material, occasionally blood. 
The mucous membrane of the stomach and intestine 
is generally pinkish from congestion, or there may 
be irregularly congested or arborescent patches of 
injection here and there throughout its extent. In 
addition, there may be seen smaller or larger points 
of ecchymosis in or under the mucous membrane. 
The changes in the alimentary canal are most marked 
at the lower end of the ileum, where Peyer's patches 
and the solitary glands may be seen to be congested 
and swollen. In some instances the bowel is pale 
throughout ; in many the mucous membrane has a 
sodden, pulpy appearance from exfoliation of epi- 
thelium possibly a post-mortem change ; occasion- 
ally, especially towards the lower end of the ileum, 
a croupous exudation is met with. Greig has shown 
that the gall-bladder and biliary passages are fre- 
quently invaded by the cholera vibrio, and in a 
proportion of instances are, consequently, more or 
less inflamed. He also found that in a proportion 
of cases (8 in 55) the vibrio is present in the urine. 
The mesenteric glands are congested. The superficial 
veins of the kidneys are full ; the medullary portion 
is much congested, the cortical portion less so ; the 
tubules are filled with granular matter; the epithelium 
is cloudy, granular, or fatty, and, at a later stage, 
may be shed. The bladder is empty and contracted. 
Nothing special is to be noted in the nervous 
system . 

If death have occurred during the stage of re- 
action, the tissues are moist; the venous system is 
less congested ; the lungs are probably congested and 
oedematous, perhaps inflamed. Very probably there 
are evidences of extensive enteritis. 

Microscopical examination of the contents of the 
bowel during the acute stage of the disease discovers, 
in most instances, the comma bacillus. Usually it is 
in great abundance; occasionally in what is almost 
a pure culture. Sections of the intestine show the 
bacillus lying on and between the epithelial cells of 



476 CHOLERA [CHAP. 

the villi and glands. As the comma bacillus does not 
occur in the blood, and assuming that it is the cause 
of cholera, we must conclude that the clinical pheno- 
mena are not the result of a septicaemia, but that 
they arise either from a local intestinal irritation pro- 
duced by the bacillus, or from some toxin which it 
generates in the bowel and which is absorbed ; or 
from a combination of these factors.* 

That the cholera vibrio is a powerful irritant is 
shown by the effect produced locally by a hypodermic 
injection of a virulent culture. When so injected, 
not only does it give rise to local oedema, but, unless 
precautions are taken, it causes in certain animals 
necrosis of the tissues and ulceration at the seat of 
injection. It is conceivable, therefore, that when in the 
course of the naturally acquired disease the bacilli 
proliferate in the bowel they or their products act as 
an irritant to the mucous membrane, and so provoke 
the hypercatharsis and the consequent dehydration of 
the tissues which are the dominating features of the 
disease. On the other hand, the hypodermic injection 
of cholera vibrio cultures is followed by smart febrile 
movement lasting from one to three days, evidencing 
the presence of a febrogenic toxin capable of pro- 
ducing constitutional symptoms. This fact, together 
with the rapid and intense prostration which, in 
some instances of natural cholera, appears to be out 
of all proportion to the amount of catharsis present, 
suggests that the lethal effects of the vibrio are 
attributable not alone to the drain of fluid from the 
blood and tissues but also to the absorption of a 
cholera toxin from the intestine. It is somewhat 
strange, however, if this toxin be anything more 
than a subsidiary element in the production of the 
symptoms in most instances of the naturally acquired 
disease, that catharsis is not one of the effects of the 
hypodermic introduction of the vibrio, and that fever 
is not an earlier and more prominent symptom in 

* Greig, although he failed to recover the vibrio from the blood 
during life, nevertheless found it widely distributed in the organs 
after death, and concludes that it is distributed in these by the 
lymphatic system. 



XXVHI] DIAGNOSIS 477 

natural cholera. The modern tendency is to regard 
the clinical phenomena as the result partly of local 
irritation and partly of toxaemia ; variation in the pro- 
portional intensities of the different clinical elements 
depending on the degree of virulence of the particular 
strain of microbe introduced, and on the circumstances 
and idiosyncrasy of the patient.* 

Diagnosis. During the height of an epidemic 
the diagnosis of cholera is generally an easy matter ; 
the profuse rice-water discharges, the collapse, the 
cold clammy skin, the cyanosis, the shrunken features 
the shrivelled fingers and toes, the feeble, husky, 
hollow voice, the cold breath, the cramps, and the 
suppression of urine, together with the high rate of 
mortality, are generally sufficiently distinctive. But 
in the first cases of some outbreak of diarrhoea, which 
may or may not turn out to be cholera, and the true 
nature of which for obvious reasons it is of import- 
ance to determine, correct diagnosis, though urgently 
required, may not be so easily attained. 

Symptoms resembling true cholera may supervene 
in the course of an ordinary severe diarrhoea, and are 
very usual in cholera nostras, in mushroom poisoning, 
in ptomaine poisoning, in the early stages of trichinosis, 
and in a certain type of pernicious malarial fever. In 
none of these, however, is the mortality so high as 
in cholera. It may be laid down, therefore, that 
epidemic diarrhoea attended by a case- mortality of 
over 50 per cent, is cholera. 

In other forms of diarrhoea it is rare for the 
stools to be persistently so absolutely devoid of 
biliary colouring matter as they are in cholera. A 
careful inspection of the stools sometimes yields valu- 
able information in other ways. Thus, in mushroom 
poisoning fragments of the mushrooms which caused 
the catharsis may be seen ; in trichinosis the micro- 
scope may detect the adult trichina. In choleraic 
malarial attacks the presence of the malaria parasite 

* Metchnikoff, Roux, and Salembeni demonstrated the exist- 
ence of a soluble cholera toxin by introducing collodion sacs 
(2-3 c.c. capacity) filled with cholera cultures into the peritoneal 
cavity of guineapigs. Macfadyen obtained a virulent endotoxin 
by triturating cultures in liquid air. 



478 CHOLERA [CHAP. 

in the blood, the periodicity of the symptoms, their 
amenability to quinine, together with the character 
of the prevailing epidemic, generally combine to guide 
to a correct diagnosis. 

The detection of the comma bacillus in the stools 
is now regarded as a positive indication of cholera. 
It would be rash, however, to affirm that a negative 
result from bacteriological examination of a single 
case is conclusive against its being cholera. More- 
over, such" examinations to be trustworthy have to 
be made by a skilled bacteriologist. According to 
Kanthack and Stephens, the following were the 
methods of bacteriological diagnosis practised by 
Klein during the threatened epidemic in 1893 : 

Method 1. A. flake from the dejecta is placed in peptone 
broth and incubated at 37 C. In twenty-four hours an 
abundant crop of vibrios is found in the superficial layers of 
the broth. This pellicle consists of a practically pure culture, 
or, at any rate, is a culture which easily allows of pure sub- 
cultures being obtained. 

Method 2. A flake is placed in sterile salt solution or 
broth ; it is shaken up, and from this gelatin or agar tubes 
are inoculated, and plates are made. In agar plates incubated 
at 37 C. numerous colonies may be found in twenty to 
thirty hours. In the gelatin plates, after two to three days' 
incubation at 20 to 22 C., numerous typical colonies can be 
got. (A more modern method which is very efficacious is 
Dieudonne's blood-alkali agar. Equal parts of defibrinated 
ox-blood and normal caustic soda solution are mixed with 
70 c.c. of neutral peptone agar. On this medium few organisms 
other than the cholera vibrio develop.)* 

Method 3. A flake is placed directly into Dunham's 
peptone salt solution (1 per cent, peptone, 0*5 per cent, sodium 
chloride), or the Dunham's solution is inoculated after previous 
dilution of the material. The peptone solution, after six, 
eight, to ten hours' incubation at 37 C., shows a definite 
turbidity, due to the rapid growth of the comma bacilli ; and 
the cholera- red reaction may be obtained, although not ab- 
solutely specific. For speedy diagnosis this method is most 
valuable; in six to twelve hours, or, at latest, in sixteen hours, 
comma bacilli can be found in the superficial layers of the 

* The cholera vibrio forms indol very rapidly and in considerable 
amount, reducing nitrates to nitrites, especially in peptone water. 
A few drops of pure sulphuric acid added to a peptone-water 
culture eight to twelve days old gives a pinkish colour, more 
intense according to the age of the culture. The coli group and 
other bacteria produce indol, but do not reduce nitrates to nitrites 
so readily ; the presence of the latter is essential for the reaction. 



xxvni] MORTALITY QUARANTINE 479 

peptone solution, so that in twenty-four hours pure cultures 
and the cholera-red reaction can be obtained in secondary 
peptone tubes. Also, a positive result may be obtained by this 
method in cases in which the microscopical examination has 
failed to give definite evidence of the presence of vibrios. 

In addition to these methods the agglutination test is fre- 
quently employed. The serum of a rabbit immunized against 
a known cholera vibrio by frequent and massive intraperitoneal 
injections, and therefore having a high agglutinating power, 
affords a very rapid means of differentiation of pathogenic 
from non-pathogenic vibrios. 

In case of doubt as to the identity of a suspected cholera 
vibrio, Pfeiffer's reaction might be employed with advantage. 
An emulsion of the organism, to which a small amount of the 
patient's serum had been added, is injected into the peritoneal 
cavity of a normal guineapig. Half to one hour later the 
peritoneal fluid is examined. If the case be one of cholera the 
bacteria will be found to be degenerated and mostly spherular. 

The first two methods are applicable to those 
instances in which microscopical examination of the 
stools shows crowds of comma bacilli. Method 3 is 
specially applicable to those stools in which comma 
bacilli are in very small numbers. 

As an agglutination reaction is not obtainable 
from the blood serum during the acute stage of the 
disease, this means of diagnosis is not available in 
cholera. 

Mortality. The average case-mortality in cholera 
amounts to about 50 per cent. Some epidemics are 
more deadly than others. As already mentioned, the 
mortality is greater at the earlier than at the 
later stages of an epidemic. To the old, the very 
young, the pregnant, the subjects of grave organic 
disease particularly of the liver, kidneys, and heart 
the dissipated, the underfed, and the feeble, the 
danger is very great. 

Quarantine prevention. Theoretically, quar- 
antine should be "an efficient protection against the 
introduction of cholera into a community ; practically, 
it has proved a failure. Unless they are stringent 
and thoroughly carried out, quarantine regulations 
can be of little use. Unfortunately, the temptation 
to evade such regulations is in proportion to their 
stringency. It is impossible to secure the absolute 
honesty and efficiency of every individual in a large 



480 CHOLERA [CHAP. 

body of men charged with the details of any system 
entailing great personal inconvenience and loss to tra- 
vellers and merchants. Therefore, if the strength of 
the quarantine chain is to be measured by that of its 
weakest link, the chain must be weak indeed, as a 
very slight knowledge of human nature will lead us 
to suspect, and a very slight acquaintance with the 
working of quarantine as ordinarily practised will 
attest. Even if the utmost care, intelligence, and 
honesty succeed in excluding individuals actually 
suffering from cholera, or likely within a reason- 
able time to suffer from cholera, there is yet no 
guarantee that the germ of the disease may not 
be introduced. Koch and others have shown that 
sometimes the dejecta even of individuals apparently 
in good health and who have not suffered, or who 
may not subsequently suffer from choleraic disease, 
may yet contain, and for some time continue to 
contain, the cholera vibrio. In 271 fatal cases Greig 
found the vibrio in the gall-bladder, a situation 
favouring persistence in the event of recovery. 
During the epidemic of 1911, in Naples, 10 per cent, 
of healthy contacts had cholera vibrios in their stools 
and continued to pass them for three to five days. If 
the cholera vibrio be the germ of cholera, then such 
healthy, vibrio-bearing individuals may well suffice to 
start an epidemic. It is impossible, short of absolute 
and complete isolation, for any practicable system of 
quarantine to deal efficiently with such cases. 

So far from ordinary quarantine proving a defence 
against cholera, it may actually increase the risk of 
an epidemic. This it does by fostering a false sense 
of security, and so leading to neglect of those well- 
proved guarantors of the public health domestic, 
municipal, and personal cleanliness, and a pure water 
and food supply. 

The system to which Great Britain apparently 
owed her immunity during recent epidemics on the 
continent of Europe is a practicable and, in civilized 
conditions, an efficient one. Under this system only 
ships which were carrying or which had recently 
carried cholera patients were detained ; and even 



xxvm] QUARANTINE 481 

these merely till they could be thoroughly disin- 
fected. Thus inconvenience and loss to travellers 
and merchants were small, and the temptation to con- 
ceal cases of the disease or to evade regulations was 
proportionately minimized. Any cholera cases were 
isolated in suitable hospitals, the rest of the crew and 
passengers, although supervised for a time, being given 
free pratique. At the same time, attention was not 
diverted from the sanitation of towns, especially of 
seaports ; this was the measure mainly relied on. 
Suspicious cases occurring on shore were at once 
reported to the sanitary authorities and promptly 
dealt with, fomites being destroyed or disinfected at 
as little cost and inconvenience to individuals as pos- 
sible. Every endeavour was made to prevent faecal 
contamination of the public water supply. 

Of late years in India effort is being directed 
much 011 the same lines, attention being given to 
sanitation rather than to quarantine. During the 
great religious festivals the sanitary condition of the 
devotees is looked after so far as practicable, special 
care being given to provide them with good drinking- 
and bathing- water. Many of the large Indian towns 
now enjoy an abundant and pure water supply ; and 
civilized systems of night-soil conservancy and other 
important sanitary measures are being gradually in- 
troduced, and, in the case of more than one great city, 
with the most gratifying results. 

Among the troops in India, on the appearance 
of cholera in their neighbourhood, special protective 
measures are promptly instituted, elaborate directions 
having been drawn up for the guidance of medical 
officers. For an account of these regulations the 
reader is referred to the Annual Report of the 
Sanitary Commissioner with the Government of Iiidia 
for 1895, Appendix, p. 189. 

Incubation period. All quarantine and pro- 
tective systems must take cognizance of the fact that, 
although cholera may declare itself within a few hours 
of exposure to infection, it may also do so at any time 
up to ten days thereafter ; three to six days may be set 
down as the usual duration of the incubation period. 
Q 



482 CHOLERA [CHAP. 

Anti-choleraic inoculations. During an 
epidemic of cholera in Spain, in 1885, Ferran in- 
stituted a system of prophylactic inoculation. He 
injected hypodermically ordinary laboratory cultures 
of the cholera vibrio obtained directly from cholera 
corpses. No attempt was made to regulate or stand- 
ardize in any way the virulence of the cultures. The 
results were not encouraging. As accidents were fre- 
quent, the Government put a stop to the practice. 

In 1893 Haffkine, after elaborate experiments 
on the lower animals, commenced a system of anti- 
cholera vaccinations, using a pure virus of a fixed 
and known strength. This virus he prepared by pass- 
ing the cholera vibrio through a series of guineapigs 
by means of intraperitoneal injections. In this way 
the microbes were increased in toxicity to a definite 
point beyond which their virulence could not be 
exalted. Cultures so prepared gave rise, when in- 
jected hypodermically, not only to a general but 
also to a local reaction, the latter being so severe 
that it ordinarily ended in extensive sloughing and 
ulceration. To avoid this undesirable result, a milder 
vaccine was prepared by cultivating the strong vac- 
cine in artificial media at a temperature of 39 C., 
and in an atmosphere kept constantly renewed. 
By first injecting under the skin of animals this 
milder vaccine it was found that such a measure of 
protection was conferred that subsequent iniection 
of the strong virus was no longer followed by violent 
local reaction. Having satisfied himself that the sub- 
cutaneous injection of these two vaccines conferred 
immunity against the cholera vibrio in the lower 
animals, Haffkine, with the approval and aid of the 
Government, proceeded to use them in man on a large 
scale in India. Up to 1895, 70,000 injections of living 
cholera bacilli had been made in 43,179 individuals. 
In no instance did any bad result ensue. While 
admitting that the value of his method has not been 
fully proved, Haffkine claims that the results are 
sufficiently encouraging to justify a continuation of 
these inoculations on a larger scale. 

The symptoms which these injections produce are 



xxvin] PROPHYLACTIC INOCULATION 483 

fever, transient oedema and tenderness at the seat of 
injection, the first evidence of constitutional disturb- 
ance appearing from two to three hours after the 
injection is made. The fever and general indisposition 
last from twenty-four to thirty-six hours, the local 
symptoms gradually disappearing in from three to 
four days. The symptoms following the second in- 
jection made from three to four days after the first 
are generally more marked, but of shprter duration. 
The microbes injected die ; it is the substances set 
free on their death which confer the immunity. 
It is found that carbolized cultures that is, dead 
vibrios produce the same immunizing and constitu- 
tional effects, though in a somewhat milder and 
probably less permanent degree. How long the 
immunity conferred by these injections endures has 
not been definitely settled.* 

In consequence of an experiment on himself, 
Haffkine found that, although the virulent comma 
bacillus produced necrotic effects at the site of in- 
oculation in guineapigs, it did not do so in man. 
Accordingly, he has abandoned his original method of 
a primary inoculation with an attenuated virus, and 
has since countenanced immediate inoculation with 
virulent, recently-isolated vibrios, without further 
preparation. According to Powell, the method is as 
follows : 

" The whole surface of agar in a sloped tube is inoculated 
with the comma and cultivated for twenty-four to thirty-six 
hours at a temperature of 40 C. The whole surface should 
then be covered with a uniform layer of growth. Sterilized 
water is then added to one-third the height of the agar, and 
the growth washed off and suspended in the water by rapidly 
rotating or shaking, till the surface of the agar is quite clear. 
Half a cubic centimetre, about nine minims, is the dose for an 
average adult." 

Powell's results are highly favourable namely, 
198 cases of cholera with 124 deaths among 6,549 
non-inoculated tea-garden coolies in Assam, against 
27 cases and 14 deaths among 5,778 inoculated coolies. 

* For details .of Haffkine's original methods and technique 
see the Brit. Med. Journ., Feb. 4, 1893, and the Indian Med. 
Gtos.,Nov., 1896. 



484 CHOLERA [CHAP. 

Had the incidence of cholera been the same in both 
classes, the inoculated would have had 174 instead 
of 27 cases, and 109 instead of 14 deaths. In 1912, 
8,000 Europeans were inoculated in Batavia, and 
among these there was only one death from cholera 
as against 15 deaths amongst 2,700 uninoculated. 

Subsequent experience, particularly that obtained 
during the Balkan War of 1913 and the European 
War, has gone far to confirm these earlier impressions 
of the value of Haffkine's vaccinations. Recently 
Castellani has advocated, and practised with promis- 
ing results, the use of a " tetra vaccine " of combined 
cholera, typhoid, and paratyphoid A and B strains. 

Personal prophylaxis. During cholera epi- 
demics great care should be exercised to preserve the 
general health ; at the same time, anything like 
panic or apprehension must be sedulously discour- 
aged. Fatigue, chill, excess particularly dietetic or 
alcoholic excess are to be carefully avoided. Visits 
to cholera districts should be postponed if possible, 
seeing that the new-corner is specially liable to 
contract the disease. Unripe fruit, over-ripe fruit, 
shell-fish, food in a state of decomposition, and every- 
thing tending to upset the digestive organs and to 
cause intestinal catarrh are dangerous. Melons, 
cucumbers, and the like deserve the evil reputation 
they have acquired. Purgatives particularly saline 
purgatives unless very specially indicated, should 
never be taken at these times. All drinking-water, 
and all water in which dishes and everything used 
in the preparation and serving of food are washed, 
should be boiled. Filters except perhaps the 
Pasteur-Chamberland filter are not for the most 
part to be relied on ; in many instances they are 
more likely to contaminate the water passed through 
them than to purify it. A good plan in a household, 
or in public institutions, is to provide for drinking 
purposes an abundant supply of weak tea or lemon 
decoction, the supply being renewed daily ; such a 
plan ensures that the water used in the preparation 
of the drink has been boiled. All food should be 
protected from flies. 



xxvin] TREATMENT 485 

Diarrhoea occurring during cholera epidemics 
should be promptly and vigorously treated. 

Treatment. During cholera epidemics it is 
customary to establish depdts where sedative and 
astringent remedies for the treatment of diarrhoea 
are dispensed gratuitously. Experience seems to 
encourage the belief that by such means incipient 
cholera may be aborted during the stage of pre- 
monitory diarrhoea. Of the various drugs used with 
this view, chlorodyne, or chlorodyne with brandy, is 
the most popular. Lead and opium pill ; chalk, 
catechu, and opium mixture ; compound kino powder; 
aromatic powder of chalk and opium ; a pill of opium, 
asafoetida, and black pepper ; dilute sulphuric acid and 
laudanum, are among the drugs more commonly em- 
ployed for this purpose. Whether true cholera can 
be cut short in this way or not, it is certainly in the 
highest degree advisable at such a time to neglect 
no case of diarrhoea, but to insist on rest, warmth, 
and the greatest prudence in feeding in all cases of 
intestinal catarrh or irritation. 

Many plans of treatment, based on theoretical con- 
siderations, have been advocated from time to time. 
The eliminative treatment advocated by Dr. George 
Johnson ; the spinal ice-bag recommended by Chap- 
man ; various antiseptic methods directed to the de- 
struction of the vibrio in the intestinal canal ; drugs 
designed to counteract the physiological effects of 
the cholera toxins, as chloroform, atropine, nitrite 
of amyl, and nitro-glycerine, may be mentioned as 
belonging to this category of remedies. 

Until recently, the only treatment of proved 
value in cholera was the purely symptomatic and ex- 
pectant one. If our efforts have failed to counter- 
act the premonitory diarrhoea, attention should be 
given to maintaining the patient in as favourable a 
condition as possible to struggle against the poison 
of the disease. He should be kept strictly in the 
horizontal position, in a warm bed, and in a well- 
ventilated but not too cold room. His thirst should 
be treated by sips of iced water or of soda-water, or 
champagne, or brandy and water. Copious draughts, 



486 CHOLERA [CHAP. 

as they are likely to provoke vomiting, are usually 
condemned. It does not follow from this that they 
are harmful ; the emesis contributes to the elimination 
of germ and toxin. Cramps may be relieved by gentle 
frictions with the hand or with ginger-root, by a small 
hypodermic injection of morphia, or, these failing, by 
short chloroform inhalations. The surface of the 
body should be kept dry by wiping it with warm dry 
cloths, and the surface heat maintained by hot- water 
bottles or warmed bricks placed about the feet, legs, 
and flanks. The patient must not be allowed to get 
up to pass his stools; a warmed bed -pan should be 
provided for this purpose. All food should be with- 
held while the disease is active. 

If the pulse fail or disappear at the wrist, stimu- 
lants by the mouth, or, if there is much vomiting 
and these do not appear to be absorbed, hypodermic 
injections of ether or brandy, may be given. No 
improvement ensuing, intravenous or subcutaneous 
injection of normal, or hypertonic, saline fluid may 
be had recourse to. As regards the former, a suit- 
able injection may be quickly prepared of common salt 
60 gr., carbonate of soda 60 gr., boiled water 1 quart. 
Of this, from one to three quarts at a temperature 
of 100 F. may be slowly introduced by gravitation 
into a vein, the effect being carefully watched. The 
pulse can generally be quickly restored temporarily by 
this means and life prolonged, possibly in a few in- 
stances saved ; too often, however, the fluid so intro- 
duced rapidly escapes by the bowel, and collapse once 
more sets in. Dr. Cox, of Shanghai, has had some 
encouraging results from continuous, prolonged, slow, 
intravenous injection of saline fluid, the fluid gravi- 
tating from a vessel placed 2| ft. above the level of 
the patient's arm. The flow is kept up for several 
hours, and as long as it is deemed that there is any 
risk of collapse. 

Rogers has recently introduced a method of treat- 
ing cholera by intravenous injection of hypertonic 
saline solution, which promises well. He claims 
that since the introduction of his method the case- 
mortality from this disease in the Calcutta Medical 



xxvin] TREATMENT 487 

College Hospital has been greatly reduced ; and others, 
who have practised his methods, have in most in- 
stances had equally good results. The principle of 
the treatment is based on the fact that not only is 
the water content of the blood reduced by one-third 
to two thirds, according to the severity of the case, 
but in addition there is a loss of the saline con- 
stituents. Hence the necessity for supplying the 
latter. His hypertonic solution is composed as follows : 
Sodium chloride, 120 gr. ; potassium chloride, 6 gr. ; 
calcium chloride, 4 gr. ; sterilized water, 1 pint. This 
he introduces by means of a special stop-cocked can- 
nula and transfusion bulb at the rate of not more 
than 4 oz. a minute, the flow being slowed down to 
1 oz. if distress or headache supervene. At the same 
time he gives permanganate of potassium in solution 
or in pill by mouth up to 50 gr. a day 2 gr. every 
quarter of an hour for two hours, then every half -hour 
till the stools are coloured green. In suppression of 
urine, if the blood pressure is normal, isotonic solution 
should be used. As the injections may have to be 
repeated several times, the cannula, suitably secured 
and protected, should be left in the vein till symp- 
toms indicate that the acute stage is subsiding. 

With the intravenous saline Rogers combines 
hypodermic injections of atropine. 

Rogers considers that the occurrence of uraemia 
in cholera is the result of the development of an 
acidosis. In such cases he recommends the injection 
subcutaneously or per rectum of a 2- to 3-per-cent. 
solution of sodium bicarbonate if the specific gravity 
of the blood is low; if the specific gravity of the 
blood is high or normal, it should be given intra- 
venously at first, and subsequently by rectum. 

Other Indian practitioners claim to have got 
better results in suppression of urine from perman- 
ganate in adrenalin solution, the dose of the latter 
being 10 minims of a l-in-10,000 solution every 
three hours. 

During the stage of reaction, should purging 
persist, large doses of salicylate of bismuth with a 
little opium may prove of service. In these circum- 



488 CHOLERA - [CHAP. 

stances massive rectal injections of tannin 1 oz., 
gum arabic 1 oz., warm water 1 quart, are of use. 
If the secretion of urine is not quickly restored, 
large hot poultices over the loins, dry-cupping of 
the same region, and the judicious use of bland 
diluents should be had recourse to. Stimulating 
diuretics are dangerous. Retention of urine must be 
inquired about, and the region of the bladder fre- 
quently examined, and, if necessary, the catheter 
employed. In the event of constipation, purgatives 
must be eschewed and simple enemata alone used. 

In cholera convalescents the diet for a time must 
be of the simplest and most digestible nature diluted 
milk, barley-water or rice-water, thin broths, meat 
juice, and so forth the return to ordinary food being 
effected with the greatest circumspection. 

Cholera typhoid must be treated much as ordinary 
enteric fever. 

Precautions. It must never be forgotten by 
those responsible for the management of cholera cases 
that through their discharges such patients are a 
danger to the community, and that those discharges 
may contain the vibrio in some instances up to fifty 
days after the attack. The Bordet-Gengou reaction,* 
a complicated serum reaction, has been advantageously 
employed in the detection of these cholera carriers. 
Further, that though the germ dies in a few hours if 
dried, it preserves its vitality for many days if kept 
moist, as, for example, in damp, soiled linen ; that it 
may live for months as a saprophyte in water or 

* The Bordet-Gengou reaction is based on the fixation of the 
complement, using a culture of the vibrio as an antigen. The 
following mixtures are prepared in three test tubes : Nos. 1 and 2 
contain 0*2 c.c. suspension of cholera vibrio, and 0*6 c.c. suspected 
person's serum (heated to 56 F. for half an hour), and O'l c.c. com- 
plement (guineapig's serum) ; tube 3, a similar mixture with the 
substitution of normal person's serum. These tubes are shaken 
and incubated for half an hour. Then 1 c.c. of mixture of a serum 
haemolytic toheep's corpuscles (heated to 56 F. for half an hour) 
and one volume of washed sheep's corpuscles. To tube 2 is added 
O'l c.c. of a mixture of two volumes of normal saline and one 
volume of washed sheep's corpuscles. Should the suspected serum 
be that of a cholera carrier, the complement in tube 1 will be 
fixed and no haemolysis occur, whereas in tube 3 it will be free 
and haemolysis will take place. 



xxvni] PRECAUTIONS 489 

damp soil ; and that it is not killed by ordinary 
cold. Therefore, all discharge and soiled linen from 
cholera cases should be immediately disinfected or 
destroyed, and every precaution must be taken during 
convalescence, as well as during the acute stage, to 
prevent contamination of wells, public water supply, 
drinking and table vessels, and food. The domestic 
fly and other vermin as vectors of the germ must not 
be overlooked. 



CHAPTER XXIX 
DYSENTERY 

Definition. A term applied to several specifically 
distinct diseases of which the principal pathological 
feature is inflammation of the mucous membrane of 
the colon, and of which the leading symptoms are 
pain in the abdomen, tenesmus, and the passage of 
frequent small stools containing slime, or slime arid 
blood. 

Geographical distribution. From time to 
time forms of dysentery have extended as epidemics 
of great severity over vast tracts of country. These 
great epidemics, or, rather, such of them as have been 
recorded, have been confined principally to temperate 
latitudes. There can be little doubt that similar 
visitations have occurred and do occur in tropical 
countries. At the present day dysenteric disease of 
local origin is rare in Britain. Small circumscribed 
epidemics break out occasionally among the general 
population, and in certain public institutions, par- 
ticularly lunatic asylums, endemic dysentery is 
common ; but, in comparison to what was the case 
in pre-sanitary days, and with what obtains in tropical 
countries at present, our indigenous dysentery is 
altogether insignificant. The same remark applies 
to the continent of Europe. But when, in Europe 
or elsewhere, war breaks out, or when there is wide- 
spread scarcity of food, dysentery is almost sure to 
appear. In most places in the tropics dysentery of 
one form or another is always to be found ; in some 
places and seasons more than in others. On the 
whole, it may be advanced that wherever the general 
hygienic conditions are bad, wherever the soil is much 
fouled by excreta, and especially where the water 
supply is polluted, wherever many people are crowded 
together in one building or camp, where the food is 
" 490 



SYMPTOMS 491 

coarse, monotonous, or unsound, there, especially in 
tropical and sub-tropical climates, dysentery is or 
becomes endemic, and may become epidemic. 

Amongst tropical diseases the group of morbid 
conditions included under the general term " dysen- 
tery " ranks in importance next to malaria. Un- 
fortunately, our knowledge is not in proportion to the 
importance of the subject. Until recent years the 
word " dysentery " was supposed to indicate a single 
well-defined disease; writers described its etiology, 
symptoms, pathology, morbid anatomy, and treat- 
ment with precision. Lately we have begun to get 
beyond this stage of confident ignorance. We may 
know something about the symptoms and morbid 
anatomy of dysenteric disease, and we are beginning 
to get some insight into the germ causes of the lead- 
ing types, but we are obliged to confess that even in 
these respects our knowledge is not even approxi- 
mately complete. Anything approaching a scientific 
description of dysentery is as yet impossible. I am 
obliged, therefore, in describing the clinical features 
of dysentery to adopt an arbitrary and unscientific 
classification ; and to deal with effects before discuss- 
ing possible causes, symptoms before etiology. 

Symptoms. In ordinary cases the leading symp- 
toms of dysentery are those of inflammation of the 
great intestine namely, griping, tenesmus, and the 
passage of frequent, loose, scanty, muco-sanguineous 
stools. The illness commences in various ways in- 
sidiously or suddenly ; with high fever, with moderate 
fever, or without any material rise of temperature. 
Or the symptoms of colitis may be grafted on to 
some general affection, such as scurvy or malaria, or 
on to some chronic disease of the alimentary canal, 
such as sprue. They may assume acute characters ; 
or from the outset the symptoms may be subdued 
and of little urgency. As a rule, the symptoms are 
proportioned to the extent of the disease, but they 
are not necessarily so. In certain cases they may be 
extremely urgent and in apparent disproportion to 
the area of bowel affected ; or they may be, in com- 
parison to the extent and the degree of the anatomical 



492 DYSENTERY [CHAP. 

lesion, disproportionately trifling; or they may be 
altogether absent, even when the colon is exten- 
sively diseased. There is, therefore, endless variety 
in their character, urgency, and significance. As a 
general rule, the nearer to the rectum the lesions, 
the more urgent the tenesmus; the nearer to the 
caecum, the more urgent the griping. These two 
symptoms, together with the presence of points of 
localized tenderness, form, in many cases, a fair guide 
to the location and extent of the lesions. 

Clinically, the dysenteries are conveniently ar- 
ranged according to what may be presumed to be the 
gross characters of the attendant intestinal lesion. 

Catarrhal dysentery. A common history to re- 
ceive is that for some days the patient had suffered 
from what was supposed to be an attack of diarrhoea. 
The stools, at first copious, bilious, and watery per- 
haps to the number of four or five in the twenty- 
four hours- 1 had latterly, and by degrees, become less 
copious and more frequent, less fseculent and more 
mucoid, their passage being attended by a certain 
and increasing amount of straining and griping. On 
looking at what was passed, the patient had dis- 
covered that now there was very little in the pot 
except mucus tinged, or streaked, or dotted with 
blood ; a tablespoonful, or thereabouts, being passed at 
a time. By degrees the dysenteric element entirely 
supplanted the diarrhoea ; so that when seen by the 
physician the desire to go to stool had become almost 
incessant, the effort to pass something being accom- 
panied by perhaps agonizing griping and tenesmus. 
The patient has hardly left the stool before he has a 
call to return to it, and he may be groaning and 
sweating with pain and effort. The suffering is 
sometimes very great ; nevertheless, with all this suffer- 
ing there is often very little fever, the thermometer 
showing a rise of only one or two degrees. 

In another type of case the incidence of the 
dysenteric condition is much more abrupt. Within a 
few hours of its commencement the disease may be in 
full swing. The stools, at first fseculent, soon come to 
consist of little save a yellowish, greenish, or dirty- 



xxix] SYMPTOMS 493 

brown mucus blood-tinged or streaked and dotted 
with little haemorrhages. Very soon the desire to 
stool becomes increased, the griping and tenesmus 
being accompanied, perhaps, with most distressing 
dysuria. The patient is glued, as it were, to the 
commode. Fever, which at the outset may have been 
smart and preceded by rigor, subsides, so that when 
the patient is seen it may be absent or inconsiderable. 
The tongue soon becomes white or yellow-coated ; 
there may be thirst also ; very generally anorexia is 
complete. 

In either case, after perhaps four, five, or six days, 
the urgency of the symptoms may gradually diminish 
and the acute stage taper off into a subacute or 
chronic condition ; or it may terminate more quickly 
in perfect recovery. 

Ulcer ative dysentery. Should, on the contrary, 
the disease advance, tjie urgency of the symptoms 
shows hardly any abatement ; the stools become very 
offensive, and now contain, besides blood, large or 
small shreddy, ash-coloured, stinking sloughs. This 
may go on, better or worse, for days or weeks. Re- 
covery from this condition is, necessarily, a slow 
process, seeing, as the presence of sloughs in the stools 
indicates, that there is deep ulceration which must 
take some time to cicatrize. Such a condition tends 
to drift into that most dangerous and most distressing 
complaint, chronic dysentery, relapsing and improving 
during many months or even years, and causing, if 
severe and prolonged, great wasting, pain, and misery. 

Fulminating dysentery. The attack generally 
begins suddenly, often in the middle of the night, 
with chills or smart rigor, vomiting, headache, and a 
rapid rise in temperature to 102 or even 104 F. Co- 
incidently with the rigor, or very soon afterwards, but 
occasionally not for a day or two, purging begins, the 
stools quickly assuming dysenteric characters. In from 
two or three days to a week or thereabouts, fever per- 
sisting to the end, or collapse setting in with a sub- 
normal temperature, the patient dies. So virulent is 
the blood-poisoning in some instances that death may 
take place before dysenteric stools are emitted, and it 



494 DYSENTERY [CHAP. 

is only the presence of an epidemic of dysentery at 
the time, or the post-mortem revelations, that make 
diagnosis possible. The mortality in such cases is 
very high. Occasionally the acute phase subsides, 
the patient slowly recovering after passing through 
the ulcerative phase of the disease. 

Relapsing dysentery. In a proportion of dysen- 
teries, although the activity of the initial attack 
may subside somewhat, symptoms do not completely 
disappear. The stools may recover their faeculent 
character and even show some formation, but they 
continue to be passed too frequently, are often pre- 
ceded by griping, and contain a variable amount of 
slime and muco-pus, with or without blood. With- 
out obvious cause, or as a sequel of some dietetic 
or other indiscretion, these dysenteric signs become 
aggravated, and there is once more a recurrence of 
active symptoms. Spontaneously, or through treat- 
ment, matters quiet down again, presently, however, 
to be followed by another relapse; and so on, until 
after weeks or months of suffering the patient dies 
of exhaustion or slowly recovers. This is the type 
of dysentery, as will be explained presently, that 
is generally associated with, and in all probability is 
caused by, a specific amoeba Amceba histolytica and 
is designated "amoebic dysentery." 

Recurring dysentery. The patient has an attack 
of dysentery from which recovery appears to be com- 
plete. Months, or even years subsequently, without 
recognizable fresh exposure to infection, and during 
prolonged residence perhaps in a non-endemic district 
or country, the disease recurs, to subside and recur 
at intervals for several years. I have several times 
seen such cases. They can only be explained by 
assuming a remarkable capacity for prolonged latency 
on the part of the special dysenteric germ concerned, 
generally the amceba. 

Chronic dysentery. In a large proportion of 
cases of acute dysentery the bowel does not become 
absolutely healthy for a considerable time after 
abatement of the more urgent symptoms. On the 
slightest dietetic imprudence, after chill or fatigue, 



xxix] SYMPTOMS 495 

or even slight indulgence in alcohol, the old symp- 
toms reappear. In such cases sudden attacks of 
diarrhoea are common. Some patients for months, or 
even years, never pass a perfectly healthy stool, the 
unformed motion always containing slime or muco- 
pus, and at times blood. Often there is a tendency 
to scybalous stools, or to constipation alternating 
with diarrhoea. If such symptoms are at all severe, 
or persist for a long time, the digestion may deterior- 
ate and the patient become thin and cachectic, his 
complaint assuming many of the characters of sprue. 
On the other hand, general nutrition may not suffer, 
although the patient may continue for years to pass 
two or three unhealthy stools daily. In mildness 
and severity the more chronic types of dysentery 
are as manifold and varied as are the earlier and more 
acute phases of the disease. They, too, are usually 
of amcebic nature. 

Anomalous types of dysentery have been described 
from time to time. Thus in a special report on an 
outbreak among Polynesian immigrants to Fiji which 
occurred on board ship in 1890, Daniels describes a 
disease of high fatality (15 deaths in 31 cases), 
manifestly infectious, running a rapid course death 
taking place in from two to ten days. In 6 cases 
there was extensive superficial ulceration of the 
mouth, and in 2 cases diphtheritic inflammation of 
the prepuce. Post-mortem examinations were made 
in four cases. In all, the whole of the colon and at 
least half of the small intestine were found acutely 
inflamed, superficially ulcerated, or covered with a 
firm, dry, green or grey layer adherent to or con- 
tinuous with the subjacent intestinal wall. In a 
special report (1898), Dr. Corney, of Fiji, remarks 
that at least six similar epidemics had occurred in 
Melanesian immigrant vessels in twelve years. The 
high degree of infectiveness, the diphtheritic lesions 
in intestine and prepuce, and the great mortality 
clearly indicate a special form of enterocolitis, due 
probably, according to later researches, to a very 
virulent form of dysentery bacillus. Such cases 
do not occur under the better hygienic conditions 



496 DYSENTERY [CHAP. 

obtaining in the Melanesian immigrant vessels at the 
present day. 

Gangrenous dysentery. What is known as 
gangrenous dysentery is, symptomatically, merely an 
aggravated form of acute ulcerative dysentery, or 
a sequel of the fulminating type. Instead of being 
inucoid, the stools come to consist of a sort of thin, 
dirty fluid, like the washings of flesh. On stand- 
ing they deposit a grumous, coffee-grounds-looking 
material, and they stink abominably. Now and again 
sloughs of every shape, size, and colour, from ash- 
grey to black, are expelled. Sometimes tube-like 
pieces, evidently rings of mucous membrane which 
have been cast off en masse, are discharged. In 
such cases the patient rapidly passes into a state 
of collapse. He sweats profusely ; the features, 
the extremities, and even the whole body, are cold 
and pinched as in the algide stage of cholera ; he 
may vomit from time to time, and the belly may 
become distressingly tympanitic. In this condition 
there is usually a persistent and worrying hiccough. 
Low muttering delirium sets in ; the pulse becomes 
small and running, and the patient rapidly sinks. 
Recovery is extremely improbable. Nevertheless, 
such cases have recovered, and must not necessarily 
be despaired of. 

Hcemorrhage. Whenever in dysentery sloughs 
separate, smart haemorrhage is always possible. 
Sudden collapse may occur from this cause, even in 
otherwise mild cases. As in typhoid, the occurrence 
of haemorrhage is more or less of the nature of an acci- 
dent, depending, as it does, on the position of the 
sloughing sore in relation to an artery ; of course, 
the more extensive and the deepeV the sloughing, the 
greater the liability to haemorrhage. 

Perforation. Another grave, though fortunately 
rare, accident in the course of dysentery is the 
occurrence of perforation. Should this unhappily 
take place, and if the patient survive the shock of 
an extensive extravasation into the peritoneal cavity, 
symptoms of peritonitis will supervene and rapidly 
prove fatal. 



xxix] SYMPTOMS 497 

Intussusception. Intussusception is also an occa- 
sional occurrence, especially in children. It is not 
always readily recognized. A sudden increase of pain, 
increased straining, entire absence of faecal matter 
from the stools, vomiting, and perhaps the presence 
of a tumour in the rectum, might lead one to suspect 
and examine for this accident. 

Tenderness ; thickening. The abdomen is tender 
in most cases of acute dysentery. If the disease be 
of some standing a certain amount of thickening may 
be felt along the track of the colon, particularly over 
the sigmoid flexure. 

Appendicitis. Symptoms suggesting inflammation 
of the appendix due to ulceration of that organ are 
often met with in amoebic dysentery, and probably 
account in part for the number of appendicectomies 
performed in tropical countries. 

Hepatitis. In acute cases the liver is usually 
distinctly enlarged, and may be tender. It sometimes 
happens that attacks of hepatitis seem to alternate 
with attacks of dysentery ; or, rather, that hepatitis in- 
creasing, dysenteric symptoms decrease, and vice versa. 
These are always very anxious cases, and too often 
eventuate, unless energetically and properly treated, 
in the formation of an abscess or multiple abscesses 
in the liver; in the latter event they almost necessarily 
prove fatal. 

Sequelce. Apart from chronic intestinal troubles, 
dysentery may be followed, as is the case in so many 
other infections, by peripheral neuritis. A condition 
resembling gonorrhceal rheumatism has frequently 
been noted as a sequel, and several epidemics have 
been recorded in which a large proportion of the cases 
became affected in this way. Conjunctivitis and 
iritis have also been noted as occasional sequelae. 
Abscess of the liver is the most important of the 
sequelae of dysentery ; it will be treated of separately, 
and need not be further alluded to here. 

mortality. Although every now and again cases 
are met with which prove directly fatal, from an 
overwhelming initial dose of virus, or from the shock 
of an extensive and intense lesion, or from rapid 



498 DYSENTERY [CHAP. 

exhaustion from haemorrhage, or from perforation ; and 
though some epidemics exhibit a malignancy which, 
fortunately, is not very common, the direct and im- 
mediate mortality from this disease is, under modern 
methods of treatment, not very high. In India, the 
case -mortality in dysentery among Europeans ranges 
from 3 to 22 per cent. ; among natives, about 37 per 
cent. In Egypt, Griesinger stated it as 36 to 40 per 
cent. In Japan, Scheube places it at 7 per cent. These 
figures are of little value, as so much depends on the 
place and the type of the epidemic, and the range of 
cases covered by the statistics. There was a time 
when, under a spoliative treatment by bleeding and 
calomel, dysentery proved a very fatal disease indeed. 
Even now, in the presence of scorbutus, famine, the 
stress of war, and similar conditions, whenever dys- 
entery becomes epidemic in a community it is apt to 
claim a large number of victims. 

Sequelae more dangerous than the disease. As a 
rule, under modern treatment, it is the sequelae of 
the disease that we have to fear rather than the 
disease itself. The chronic ulceration, the scarring, 
thickening, and contractions of the gut are irremedi- 
able conditions which too often, after months or years 
of suffering, lead to intestinal obstruction or, very 
frequently, to atrophy of the glandular and absorbent 
system of the entire alimentary tract, general wasting, 
and fatal asthenia. Such patients hardly ever pass 
a healthy motion ; they are troubled with chronic 
indigestion ; at times they pass their food unaltered ; 
they have recurring attacks of diarrhoea ; they are 
flatulent ; their tongues are red, often ulcerated and 
tender; they develop the condition known as "sprue," 
and sooner or later almost invariably succumb. 

Morbid anatomy. Catarrhal dysentery. In 
those cases that subside in a few days, whether 
spontaneously or in consequence of treatment, it is 
reasonable to suppose that the pathological condition 
consists only, or mainly, in congestion or in catarrhal 
inflammation ; that here and there, or throughout its 
extent, the mucosa and perhaps submucosa of the 
colon are slightly swollen and congested ; and that 



xxix] MORBID ANATOMY 499 

the surface of the former is softened, perhaps eroded, 
arid covered with a blood-streaked glairy mucus of 
the same character as that which appears in the stools. 

Ulcerative and gangrenous dysentery. Cases of 
catarrhal dysentery rarely die ; the exact conditions 
of the mucous membrane, therefore, in these cases 
can only be conjectured. It is otherwise in the 
severer forms of the disease. When such cases come 
to the post-mortem table the mucous membrane of 
the large intestine and, very frequently, a foot or 
two of the lower end of the ileum are found to be 
thickened, congested, inflamed, speckled perhaps with 
ecchymoses, cedematous, and more or less riddled with 
ulcers or patches of gangrene of various sizes, shapes, 
and depths. As a rule, the brunt of the disease falls 
on the sigmoid flexure and descending colon ; not 
infrequently, the lesions are equally if not more 
advanced in the caecum and ascending colon, and 
may involve a foot or two of the lower end of the 
ileum. On the whole, the transverse colon, though 
often seriously implicated, is so to a less extent than 
one or other of the parts mentioned, or than the 
hepatic and splenic flexures. 

The dysenteric ulcer varies in size from a punched- 
out-looking sore the size of a pea, or even less, to a 
patch several inches in diameter. As a rule, in the 
earlier days of the acute stage the ulcers tend to 
follow the folds of the mucous membrane, the free 
borders of which are the parts most liable to implica- 
tion. The edges of the sores are ragged and under- 
mined, the floor is sloughy and grey. There may be 
considerable thickening of the edges and base of the 
ulcer, and there may be peritoneal adhesions. The 
appearance of the ulcer may suggest that it extends by a 
process of burrowing in the submucosa, the super jacent 
membrane sloughing or disintegrating in consequence 
of the destruction of its subjacent nutrient vessels. 
This burrowing may extend for a considerable distance 
beyond the apparent margin of ulceration ; so much 
so that long, suppurating, fistulous tunnels may con- 
nect one ulcer with another. In this way large patches 
of mucous membrane come to be undermined, and 



500 DYSENTERY TCHAP. 

subsequently to slough away. Sores so formed are 
necessarily ragged and irregular in outline, and may 
even surround pieces of comparatively healthy mucous 
membrane. The floor of the active dysenteric ulcer 
may be, and generally is, formed of a sloughy material 
lying on the muscular coat ; but the sore may pene- 
trate deeper than this, and include the muscular coat 
itself, and even the serous membrane. The largest 
ulcers are generally found in the sigmoid flexure and 
descending colon; they are also frequently, though 
more rarely, found in the caecum, the magnitude of 
the lesions diminishing as we trace the bowel upwards 
or downwards, as the case may be. 

Along with the ulceration there is intense con- 
gestion of the non-ulcerated parts of the mucous 
membrane. In places there may be oedema of the 
submucosa ; there may be small abscesses which 
elevate the mucous membrane ; and there may also 
be distension of the solitary follicles by a mucoid or 
purulent material. In some instances a large portion 
of the mucous membrane may be seen to have died 
en masse and become gangrenous. In such, extensive 
sloughs may be thrown off as a sort of tube, apt to 
be mistaken during the lifetime of the patient for a 
diphtheritic cast of the bowel. 

Fulminating dysentery. Strong and Musgrave 
thus describe the lesions in this type of dysentery 
as it occurs in the Philippine Islands: "In the 
most acute cases (death after three or four days' 
illness) the mucous membrane of the large intes- 
tine presents in general a reddened, swollen, puffy 
appearance. There is a superficial necrotic mucous 
layer which generally extends over the mucosa 
throughout the large bowel, and sometimes for a 
distance of 10 or 12 cm. into the ileum. This 
necrotic layer consists of mucus, red blood-corpuscles, 
leucocytes, epithelial cells, with many large swollen 
granular cells, and bacteria ; no amoebae are found. 
If one brushes the mucous layer lightly aside with 
the finger the bright- red injected appearance of the 
intestinal wall becomes more plainly visible. Dotted 
here and there throughout are small, diffuse, bright- 



xxix] MORBID ANATOMY 501 

red haemorrhages with irregular margins, measuring 
from 2 to 4 mm. in diameter, or even more. The 
solitary follicles are generally swollen and raised, and 
of a bright-red colour. Here and there, scattered 
among them, bright-red, sharply circumscribed, small 
purpuric spots may appear. Occasionally the back- 
ground of the intestine may be described as though 
covered with a bright-red eruption, but with darker-red 
hsemorrhagic points scattered over this background. 
In the acute cases no definite ulceratioii takes place, 
but only a superficial coagulation necrosis of the mu- 
cosa." The lower end of the ileum may be similarly 
affected. Mott's description of the lesions in the fulmi- 
nating form of asylum dysentery, as it occurs in 
England, agrees practically with the foregoing. He 
adds: "Acute fatal cases of a little longer duration show 
the same swelling, but now frequently the mucous 
lining, although swollen, presents a pale-grey or dirty 
whitish-grey appearance ; the surface is sometimes 
finely or coarsely granular. This is owing to stasis 
in the vessels of the submucosa and necrosis of the 
epithelium, and the formation of a, false membrane, 
consisting for the most part of leucocytes and disin- 
tegrating epithelial cells." 

The primary lesion. Such, briefly, are descrip- 
tions of the principal lesions found in the acute 
stage of fatal dysenteries. There is general agree- 
ment among pathologists about these ; but there is 
very great discrepancy of opinion as to the exact 
nature of the primary and essential lesions. Some 
maintain that the starting-point of the disease is in 
the solitary follicles, which, becoming distended by a 
specific exudation, afterwards slough, and form the 
starting-point for a spreading ulcer. Other patholo- 
gists regard the primary lesion as being altogether 
independent of the glandular structures of the mucous 
membrane. They hold that, in consequence of the 
irritation produced by the specific cause of dysen- 
tery, an exudation is thrown out on to and into 
the mucous membrane itself : a slough is formed 
of this, the implicated piece of tissue being sub- 
sequently got rid of, very much in the same way 



502 DYSENTERY [CHAP. 

as the slough forming the core of an ordinary boil. 
Another primary lesion described is the small abscess 
alluded to as elevating the mucous membrane and 
projecting into the lumen of the gut. These minute, 
pimple-like abscesses consist of a collection of gummy 
pus. After a time a tiny opening forms at the apex of 
the little swellings, through which the contents may 
be expressed : it is this opening which, it is alleged, 
forms, on enlarging, the specific ulcer of dysentery. 

Assuming that there are several specific causes for 
dysentery, it is to be expected that the corresponding 
primary lesions should differ ; that whilst one causes 
a suppurating or a gangrenous lesion, another may 
produce a croupous or a diphtheritic ; that whilst 
one species of dysenteric germ attacks the mucosa, 
another species may select the submucosa ; one may 
attack the glandular structures, another the connec- 
tive tissue, another the epithelial layer. Whatever 
the primary lesion may be, eventually the weakened 
tissues are attacked by the ordinary bacteria of sup- 
puration ; so that finally, if the cases survive long 
enough, they all present a certain uniformity as 
regards the ultimate ulceration, thickenings, and other 
inflammatory lesions disclosed post mortem. 

Healing process. The dysenteric ulcer heals 
partly by contraction, partly by the formation of a 
very thin scar tissue scar tissue which, besides con- 
tracting, is apt to become pigmented. Lost glandular 
structures are never reproduced. Owing to the con- 
stant peristaltic movement of the gut, and the passage 
of faeces over the face of the healing ulcer, cicatriza- 
tion, as might be supposed, is a slow process, and 
one prone to interruption by recurring attacks of 
inflammation of a more or less specific nature. 

Lesions in chronic dysentery. In chronic dysen- 
tery the ulcers are usually smaller and less numerous 
than in the acute disease. They are also less ragged 
in outline, tending to become circular in shape and 
to acquire thickened rather than undermined edges. 
Cicatricial bands and contractions may narrow the 
lumen of the gut, the functions of which are still further 
hampered by thickenings, or by adhesions which unite 



xxix] ETIOLOGY 503 

and bind it to neighbouring organs. Dilatation above 
the seat of cicatricial stricture is liable to ensue. In 
chronic dysentery large patches of the bowel, and even 
the ulcers themselves, may be pale and anaemic, whilst 
at the same time other patches of the gut are con- 
gested. Some parts may be thickened and contracted ; 
others, again, may be thinned and dilated, the glandu- 
lar structures being atrophied. Lesions of the appen- 
dix are often found in amo3bic dysentery. Symptoms of 
appendicitis occurring in countries where appendicitis 
and consequently appendicectorny are common should 
incite the tropical practitioner to examine the stools 
for amrebse and to apply the appropriate treatment. 

Polypoid growth. Some time ago I attended a case 
of chronic relapsing dysentery in which the mucous 
membrane, at all events of the rectum and descending 
colon, was covered with enormous numbers of polypoid 
growths of considerable magnitude, some of them at 
their free ends being as large as the tip of the little 
finger. The growths had pedicles 12 in. in length. 
During life these polypoid bodies appeared in the stools, 
often in great number, looking like so many mucilagin- 
ous seeds. Similar cases are occasionally met with. 

Liver ; mesenteric glands. In by far the majority 
of cases of acute dysentery the liver is hypersemic and 
swollen. In about one-fifth of the cases of Indian 
dysentery which come to the post-mortem table the 
liver is the seat of single or multiple abscesses. In 
chronic dysentery this organ may be atrophied ; very 
generally it is the subject of fatty degeneration. 

In acute cases the mesenteric glands are enlarged, 
soft and congested, or even haemorrhagic ; in chronic 
cases they are enlarged, hard, and pale. None of the 
other viscera is characteristically affected. Abscess 
is sometimes discovered about the rectum. If per- 
foration has occurred, there may be signs of com- 
mencing peritonitis. 

Etiology. From a study of the natural history of 
the various types of the disease we are forced to the 
conclusion that at least three factors are concerned 
in the production of the clinical condition called dysen- 
tery, namely, (1) influences that weaken the natural 



504 DYSENTERY [CHAP. 

resistance of the bowels, such as the depressing or 
congesting effects of chill, bad food, purgatives, intem- 
perance, intestinal nematodes and trematodes. These 
prepare the ground for the action of (2) specific germs 
which have their action supplemented subsequently 
by (3) the ordinary bacteria of suppuration and ulcer- 
ation. It must be with the mucous membrane of 
the bowels in these respects as it is with the skin 
of the surface of the body. For example, a traumatic 
erythema leads to a specific eczema which, in turn, 
may end in an ulcer. So with the bowel : a debauch, 
a chill, or bad food may lead to an intestinal catarrh. 
A specific germ, which in healthy conditions would 
not have proved pathogenic, coming on the scene pro- 
duces a lesion of the mucosa, in which the ubiquitous 
pus germs find their opportunity. 

Three types of dysentery, correlated to three differ- 
ent kinds of parasites, are now fairly well made out. 
These are not mutually exclusive; one type may be 
superposed on and complicate another. That there are 
other dysenteries, similarly correlated to parasites as yet 
unrecognized, is not to be doubted. The principal recog- 
nized types and their respective parasites are as follows : 

1. BACTERIAL 

Bacillary dysentery : 

Bacillus dysenteries, (Shiga andFlexner). 
Bacillus pyocyaneus. 

2. PROTOZOAL 

Amoebic dysentery : 

Entamceba kistolytica (tetragena}. 
Balantidium dysentery : 

Balantidium coli. 
Kala-azar dysentery : 

Leishman- Donovan body. 
Malarial dysentery : 

Malaria parasites. 

3. VERMINOUS 

Schistosomum japonicum. 
Schistosomum hcematobium. 
Schistosomum mansoni. 
(Esophagostomum apiostomum. 



xxix] BACILLARY DYSENTERY 505 

In this place I shall discuss briefly (1) bacillary 
dysentery ; (2) amoebic dysentery ; (3) balantidiuni 
dysentery. Reference to the other forms will be 
found under their respective parasites. 

BACILLARY OR EPIDEMIC DYSENTERY 

The characteristics of this type of dysentery, at 
all events of that type of bacillary dysentery which 
has received of late so much attention, are acuteness 
of onset, often a well-marked initial fever, little 
tendency to relapse after the initial attack, the 
presence of Bacillus dysenteries in the stools, an 
initial diphtheroid necrosis of the mucosa of the large 
intestine, non-liability to abscess of the liver, occur- 
rence in epidemic form and in all latitudes, and in 
the lunatic asylums of this and other countries. 

Celli and Fiocca believed that dysentery is 
caused by Bacterium coli commune, which, they 
asserted, is always present in the stools in this 
disease. Generally non-pathogenic, this bacterium, 
they stated, acquires in certain circumstances viru- 
lent properties. They said that in the bowel it is 
often associated with a bacillus like that of typhoid, 
as well as with streptococci ; and they asserted that 
introduced by the mouth, or injected by the rectum, 
any or all of these, particularly when in combina 
tion and in certain not understood circumstances, 
either singly or in combination, excite dysentery. 
They supposed that what they call Bacterium coli 
dysenteries is but a variety of Bacterium coli com- 
mune, a variety brought about in some way by the 
presence of the other bacteria mentioned ; that in 
consequence of the presence of these other bacteria 
Bacterium coli commune acquires the power of secret- 
ing a specific toxin, which power it retains on being 
transferred from one human being to another. The 
toxin can be precipitated by alcohol from cultures, and 
has the property of giving rise to dysentery when ad 
ministered by the mouth, the anus, or hyppdermically. 

Shiga was the first to call marked attention to 
what is now known as Bacillus dysenteries, which Celli 
regards as identical with the organism just alluded 



506 DYSENTEKY [CHAP. 

to. Flexner, Strong, Musgrave and others regard it 
as the cause of what they termed epidemic dysen- 
tery, in contradistinction to sporadic or endemic 
dysentery, which they regard as belonging to the 
pathogenic sphere of the pathogenic amoeba. It is a 
rod-shaped bacillus with rounded ends, varying in 
size somewhat according to the culture medium, from 
1 to 3 p. in length by 04 to 0'5 p in breadth. It 
closely resembles in its properties Bacillus typhosus, 
but differs in being non-motile and exhibiting active 
Brownian movement, and in the circumstance that 
some types of B. dysenterice display a more uniform 
generation of indol than does B. typhosus. After a 
brief preliminary acid production in milk, it gives 
rise to a gradually increasing alkalinization ; it does 
not agglutinate in serum from typhoid cases, but 
reacts in serum from dysenteric cases to which B. 
typhosus does not respond (Flexner). Opinions dif- 
fered at first as to the presence of flagella ; it is now 
generally conceded that they are absent. It occurs 
in greatest abundance in dysenteric lesions and 
especially in the solitary lymphatic follicles of the 
large intestine, and in the mucus in the stools during 
the most acute stage of " epidemic " dysentery. It is 
pathogenic to many animals, but it does not produce 
in them, or only exceptionally, dysenteric lesions, 
although the toxins of the bacillus, pounded and 
killed cultures, when injected intravenously into 
rabbits and other animals, produce necrosis of the 
large intestine into which they are excreted by some 
selective action. One c.c. of the filtrate of freshly 
isolated dysentery cultures injected intraperitoneally 
is fatal to a rabbit. In two experiments on man, 
one intentional, the other accidental, ingestion of the 
pure cultures was followed, within a short time, by 
well-marked symptoms of dysentery. The bacillus 
agglutinates with the blood serum of " epidemic ' 
dysentery in dilutions of 1 in 10 to 200.* Further- 

* The agglutination reaction of the dysentery bacillus cannot 
be regarded as specific, in the same sense as Widal's reaction in 
typhoid. The lack of motility of the bacillus, its tendency to clump 
in broth cultures and also to agglutinate in low dilutions with nor- 
mal sera, partially account for this. Two types of agglutination 
occur (1) in chains, the bacilli lying end to end ; (2) in clumps. 



xxix] BACILLARY DYSENTERY 507 

more, Shiga claims by immunizing animals to have 
produced a serum which has reduced the mortality in 
" epidemic " dysentery in Japan from about 35 per 
cent, to 9 per cent. 

The cultural characters of B. dysenteries are sub- 
ject to great variation. As a consequence consider- 
able confusion has arisen ; but it is now generally 
conceded that, though indicating different strains 
of bacilli, these differences are not specific. The 
Table which will be found on p. 509 indicates the 
leading characters of the various strains and a com- 
parison with other pathogenic intestinal bacilli. 

Many strains of B. dysenteric have been described, and 
though all resemble each other in their gross cultural char- 
acters on solid media, etc., yet they differ considerably from 
each other in their chemical reactions with solutions of various 
sugars and in their production of indol. Thus Ohno has 
described over fifteen varieties, but more recent work indicates 
that there are probably nothing like this number, and that 
many of the sugar reactions not only vary according to the 
length of time of subculture, but even from day to day for 
given strains of the bacillus. On only one point is there 
universal agreement, and that is in the property possessed 
by bacilli of the acid or Flexner group of producing acid 
from mannite, and the lack of acid production in this sugar 
by the non-acid or Shiga group. Shiga now recognizes five 
types which he uses for the production of polyvalent anti- 
serum in Japan. These are : 

(1) Fermenting dextrose alone (Shiga-Kruse). ' 

(2) The true Flexner bacillus, fermenting dextrose and 

mannite and saccharose. 
' (3) The " Y " bacillus, fermenting dextrose and mannite. 

(4) Fermenting dextrose, maltose, and saccharose. 

(5) Fermenting dextrose and maltose, but giving only 

a feebly acid reaction with mannite. 

There is also great variation in the toxicity of various 
strains of bacilli, especially after long subculture on artificial 
media. The serum of an animal injected with one strain will 
agglutinate bacilli of another in high dilutions. Even the 
serological tests of patients suffering from dysentery caused 
by one type of bacillus give uncertain results. Penfold and 
others have shown that cultural reactions which are constant 
for one type of bacillus can be made to vary by growing the 
same bacillus under different conditions, and even passage 
through the intestinal tract of a fly may exert a temporary 
influence on their power of fermentation (Bahr). The three main 
types of bacilli now recognized are the Shiga-Kruse, the Flex- 
ner, and the bacillus of Hiss and Russel. (See Table on p. 509.) 



508 DYSENTERY 

These bacilli are encountered in sporadic cases or 
in different epidemics without an apparant prepon- 
derance of any one type. Thus two or more types 
may be present in the one case. Nor do they bear any 
relation to the clinical type (mild or severe) with 
which they are associated. 

In the Journal of Experimental Pathology (1898) 
there appears an account of a limited but very fatal 
epidemic in the United States in which Bacillus 
pyocyaneus was found. Calmette and Maggiora re- 
port that they also have encountered this bacterium 
in dysentery, as well as in infantile diarrhoea. 

The case-mortality from bacillary dysentery varies 
greatly in different parts of the world, depending 
to a great extent on the age and social status of 
those attacked. In Japan it is about 24 per cent. ; 
in French epidemics it has been as high as 50 per 
cent. ; in Fiji it is about 13 per cent, at the present 
day, though formerly a much more fatal form existed. 
It is especially fatal to children, in whom it is com- 
monly found, and in whom the toxic effects are most 
marked ; death being due to heart failure, probably 
consequent on toxic absorption. 

Pathology of bacillary dysentery. The large intes- 
tine is the seat of the affection ; in some cases the 
last few feet of the ileum also may be attacked. In 
early cases the gut wall is thickened and infiltrated, 
the mucous membrane cedematous and of a cherry-red 
colour showing small yellow superficial ulcers along 
the exposed borders and folds. In severe cases, or 
cases in which the disease has lasted for some time, 
the mucous membrane may be entirely gangrenous, 
of a bright-green colour, and forming what appears 
to be a false membrane on the surface of the bowel. 
This change extends down to the anus, though the 
caecum and the sigmoid flexure are the areas 
most severely attacked. The puckered or stippled 
appearance of this green layer is very characteris- 
tic. At a further stage large pieces of mucous 
membrane slough away, leaving ragged irregular 
ulcers and exposing the muscular coat. The pro- 
cess appears to start from the solitary lymphoid 



-joaxi 


a i 

o T 


H- 


H- H- H- 






x; 




& 






293 2 - 








'S, 

p 


2.S5 S53 

If III 

31 1 1 6 | 


Saine as 
typhoid 


ll S : 


1 




00&CJ3 oo 59 






1 




a 






II 





"oj '5 5 d 


S2 


Es 


3 .g 


< 

H 


*ll ~gl 


s 


SI - s 


S 3 















G a> be t- 60 




^6C 


S 'C 




S>> g- 

OD 








simxn 


4 -|i 


<? 


^ ^ <a <B 


il 


flSXYAV 










!;S 










ti| 


HHXYAV 

axixxvre 


^ S 


3 


^ <J < 


a eg fl 

: i! 


HHXYAL 


H- 

o ^5 





O < 


| 

J 2 


BSOHVHOOVg 


< 






ii 
,j 


MSOXOY1 


< 





O O 


<5 t 


HBXVM 

axoxdad 


^ ^ 


5 


3 5 


Hi 


IV 








s a 


H3XYAV 

axoxda.r 


< 5 


o 


o ^ <! <; 




asoamo 








3 










8 | 










3 00 jj 


VTI39 


I i 


III 


7 oo 
oi fc ! 


"* * H 










"3 rt 


UxmxoK 


+ H- 


+ 


0> 4) 



I! 








fc ^5 ^ 


ii 




*O ^ 




^ 


.2 o 


| 


"3 u S * *S iJU 


1 


"0 S'g 4 

|1 P!! ; 


8 < 

h 


9 




05*? 




o 5 


o 


'? w ^ 




'S r5 


a II 




^ 




i. ^ &1 OC>, 


S < 






Q 


ss? i a rf 


3 




ta 


a 


ESS 1 I Is 


2 


a 


1 i 


i 


^1 i s g^ 

sjsi s :. -B-. 





03 




03 05 

s> a 


If 


s^s .-! P s Ed 






i i 


i s 


5g| g| S| gj| 

K /. fa 





510 DYSENTERY [CHAP. 

follicles of the large intestine. The rest of the small 
intestine may be slightly injected, or may be normal. 
The mesenteric glands may be enlarged ; other ab- 
dominal organs are normal. The intestinal contents 
consist usually of tenacious, slimy mucus inter- 
mingled with thick green fecal matter ; faecal matter 
may be absent, and merely blood-stained mucus re- 
sembling frog's spawn, or, on the other hand, solid 
faeces, may be found. Intestinal adhesions may occur, 
but perforation is extremely rare. 

The microscopic pathology varies with the se- 
verity of the lesions. In the gangrenous form the 
epithelial cells of the mucous layer can no longer be 
distinguished, the whole of the mucous membrane 
undergoing coagulation necrosis with destruction of 
the glandular elements. The muscularis mucosse may 
be intact, or in places destroyed. The outstanding 
feature is the infiltration of the submucosa (Plate 
VIII.) and destruction of the nutrient blood-vessels. 
(These appearances are very similar to those produced 
in the large intestine of rabbits by intravenous in- 
jection of dysenteric toxins.) In subacute cases 
portions of the crypts can still be distinguished, but 
the cells stain badly and are vacuolated, and the sub- 
mucosa is invaded by large wandering plasma cells, 
liable in sections to be mistaken for amrebse. Dysen- 
tery and other bacilli can be seen crowding the mucous 
layer and in the lymphoid follicles, but bacilli are not 
found in the subinucous layer save where there is a 
break in continuity of the muscularis mucosse. The 
muscular coat is normal. 

By employing the appropriate technique (see p. 530) 
the dysentery bacillus can be isolated from the 
necrotic mucous membrane and also from the mes- 
enteric glands, occasionally from the gall-bladder, 
but never from the blood. 

AMCEBIC DYSENTERY 

As distinguished from other forms the character- 
istics of this type of dysentery are, generally, insidious 
onset, marked tendency to chronicity, relapses alter- 
nating with periods of comparative quiescence, great 













&H*\ : -v..- 



w'l 



, - l ^ ; , ' ' v. < ' ; :- , / , 

Microscopical section of the large intestine in bacillary dysentery, 
showing necrosis of the mucosa, cellular infiltration and 
haemorrhages into the submucosa. (After Bahr.) 



PLATE VIII. 



xxix] AMCEBIC DYSENTERY 511 

liability to abscess of the liver, confinement to 
warm climates or the warm season of temperate 
climates, local endemicity, the presence of Entamoeba 
tetragena * in the stools and implicated tissues. The 
intestinal lesion consists primarily of small amoebic 
abscess formations in the submucpsa and the subse- 
quent undermining and necrosis of the superjaeent 
mucosa. 

According to Rogers this is by much the most 
common form of dysentery in India, being at least 
twice as common as the bacillary. Cases occasionally 
originate in Great Britain, probably from infection 
brought from abroad. 

As a practical point it may be mentioned that 
amoebic dysentery may concur with bacillary, or with 
balantidium, or with verminous dysentery. This cir- 
cumstance must not be overlooked, either in practice 
or in pathological studies. 

The amoeba. The discovery of the presence of 
amoebae in the stools of dysenteries, originally pointed 
out by Losch, naturally created much interest. 
Although within the last few years a large literature 
has grown up around the subject, and although some 
definite conclusions, both as regards the bionomics 
of the amoeba and its relation to the disease, have 
been arrived at, some confusion and uncertainty still 
remain. Originally regarded by pathologists as a 
single and definite organism, and called Amoeba coli^ 
it is now recognized that there are several distinct 
species of amoebae to be found in the intestinal 
canal of man, some of which are pathogenic, others 
possibly harmless ; some true parasites, others ordi- 
nary saprophy tic amoebae. Schaudinn maintained that 
there are two well-defined true parasitic species ; 
these he named respectively Entamoeba coli and 
Entamosba histolytica. The former he regarded as 
non- pathogenic, the latter as the specific germ of 
amoebic dysentery. Although more recent proto- 

* Although, according to the rules of zoological nomenclature, 
the specific title of histolytica still holds, some authorities have 
adopted that of tetragena as being more descriptive of its life-cycle 
as at present understood, and as less calculated to cause confusion. 



512 



DYSENTERY 



[CHAP. 



zoologists have upset some of Schaud inn's views on 
the bionomics of the dysentery amoeba, and have 
renamed it Amoeba tetragena, pathologists have con- 




Fig. 78.- 



-Entamceba coli. (After Casagrandi and Barbagallo, Allbutt and 
Rolleston's " System of Medicine.") 



1,2, Living amoebae showing changes of form and vacuolatlon of the endo- 
plasra; 3,4, 5, amoebae showing different condition* of the nucleus (n) ; 
6, amoeba with eight nuclei preparing for multiple fission ; 7, encysted 
amoeba containing eight nuclei ; 8, cyst from which young amoebae are 
escaping ; 9, 10, young free amnebae ; n, nucleus ; v, vacuoles. 



XXIX] 



AMCEBIC DYSENTERY 



513 



firmed his statements as regards their etiological 
significance. The following table summarizes, accord- 
ing to the more recent work of Viereck, Darling, 




Fig. 79. Entamoeba histolytica (tetragena). (After Wenyon.) 

1,2, Free vegetative forms; 3-7, encysted forms containing one to four nuclei 
in varying stages of development; n, nucleus; v, vacuoles ; cb, cb.ro- 
midial body ; b, ingested bacillus; rbc, red blood-con uscles. 



514 



DYSENTERY 



[CHAP. 



Wenyon, and Walker, the distinctive features of the 
two species (see also Figs. 78, 79) : 

Entamceba coli. 
Size 15-25 p.. 

No well-marked distinction 
between ecto- and endoplasm ; 
latter stains more deeply. 

Barely shows a vacuole. 



Earely contains erythro- 
cytes, crystals, or bacteria, 
etc. 

Nucleus sub- central and 
almost always visible ; stains 
deeply ; shows a well-marked, 
rather thick, and very re- 
fractile nuclear membrane ; 
contains nucleolus and large 
amount of chromatin. 

Motility very sluggish. 

Multiplication in the intes- 
tine by binary fission. On faeces 
becoming hard, or outside the 
body, encystment and forma- 
tion of eight amosbulse which 
are set free when swallowed. 



Entamceba histolytica 
(tetragena). Size 20-30 fj.. 

Ectoplasm distinct, much 
more refractile and more 
deeply staining than the finely 
granular endoplasm. 

Usually one or more non- 
contractile vacuoles. 

Often contains large num- 
bers of erythrocytes, crystals, 
bacteria, etc. 

Nucleus excentric, small, 
usually indistinct, stains 
feebly, contains little chro- 
matin, and has no marked 
nuclear membrane. 



Motility more marked and 
definite. 

Multiplication in the intes- 
tine by fission.* On faeces be- 
coming hard, or outside the 
body, encystment formation 
of four amoebulee which de- 
velop when swallowed. 



The majority of authorities do not recognize a sexual cycle 
in either species. 

While many observers, partly as the result of 
their own work, but principally it would appear in de- 
ference to Schaudinn's great authority, have accepted 
in the main these descriptions, there are others, notably 
Musgrave and Clegg, who declare, after careful work 
extending over several years and carried on in excep- 
tionally favourable circumstances, that they fail to 
confirm Schaudinn's statements. 

In the course of their work Musgrave and Clegg made 
many important discoveries having a bearing, not only on the 
etiology but also on the prophylaxis of this type of dysentery 
They claim to have shown that under certain conditions what 
apparently were non-pathogenic amoabas, collected from a 

* Hartmann and Darling have pointed out that Schaudinn's 
description of reproduction by a process of budding was the result 
of observing degenerating forms of the amoeba. 



xxix] AMCEBIC DYSENTERY 515 

variety of sources, i.e. vegetables, water, etc., can be made 
to assume pathogenic properties. Further, following Frosch's 
methods, they succeeded in cultivating intestinal amceba3 by 
adding to the cultural media the bacteria usually associated 
with these amoebae in the intestine, and which seem to exercise 
a necessary symbiotic or, rather, metabiotic action, i.e. modify 
the culture medium in a way favourable to the amoabae. They 
have also shown that by gradual habituation amoabaa can be 
brought to withstand a degree of acidity greatly in excess of 
that normally present in the human stomach. These observa- 
tions have not been confirmed, at least as regards the patho- 
genicity of saprophytic amoebae. The pathogenic amoebae have 
not yet been cultivated. 




Fig. 80. Dysentery amoeba. 

a.'AmoBba dysenteries flxed and stained (Councilman) ; b, A. dysenteries in stools 
(.After Lssch, Virchow's" Archiv," Bd. locv.) 

When present in stools, the amoebae (Fig. 80) are 
generally easy to find. All the preparation necessary 
is to pick out a small fragment of stool shortly after 
it has been passed, and then to lay this on the slide 
and compress it sufficiently under the cover-glass to 
form a fairly transparent film. They are said to 
be most readily found in the watery stools produced 
by a saline purgative ; doubtless because they are 
washed from oft* the surface of the bowel by the 
action of the drug. In hot weather & warm stage is 



516 DYSENTERY [CHAP. 

not required ; but in cold weather it is well, until the 
observer has become by practice familiar with the 
appearance of the parasite in its passive condition, 
to warm the slide. This, in the absence of more 
elaborate apparatus, may be conveniently done by 
placing the slide on a copper or tin plate with 
a hole cut in it to allow of the transmission of 
light. Such a warm stage should be provided with 
a long arm to the end of which a spirit-lamp is 
applied, care being taken not to raise the tempera- 
ture of the slide above blood heat. Search is then 
made with a half-inch objective. The dysentery 
amoeba is a clear, faintly greenish-tinted, transparent 
body, some three to five times the diameter of a red 
blood-corpuscle. In its vegetative phase it is recog- 
nizable by its movements, which closely resemble 
those of the ordinary fresh- water amceba. The 
faintly granular endosarc surrounded by the very 
clear ectosarc is distinguishable. The nucleus may 
sometimes be detected in the endosarc, as well as 
one or two non-contractile vacuoles, and, generally, 
various extraneous bodies such as blood corpuscles, 
bacteria, and so forth, which the amoeba has included. 
As the temperature of the slide approaches blood 
heat the amoebae send out and retract rounded pseudo- 
podia. These when first protruded consist of ecto- 
sarc only ; but when the clear protrusion of ectosarc 
has been extended a little way the endosarc is seen 
suddenly to burst, as it were, and flow into it. If the 
temperature of the slide be allowed to fall below 75F. 
the parasite will assume a sharply outlined spheri- 
cal form and remain quite passive until the slide is 
again warmed up, when the creeping movement may 
be resumed. The parasite will keep alive on the 
slide and exhibit movement for an hour or longer. 
In certain specimens heat fails to induce movement, 
the amoeba remaining spherical and passive, being 
either dead or having become encysted. 

There can be no question as to the occurrence of 
this parasite in certain cases of dysentery, but it is 
not so easy to determine its exact significance in 
relation to the disease. It is found not only in the 



xxix] AMCEBIC DYSENTERY 517 

mucus lying on or thrown off by the inflamed bowel, 
but also in the sloughs on the ulcerated surface, in the 
tissues constituting the base and sides of the ulcef, 
and in the still living and relatively healthy tissues 
for some distance around the lesion, even in the 
muscular layers, and in the capillaries of the serous 
coat. This intimacy of association constitutes a good 
prima-facie reason for regarding the parasite as the 
cause of the disease. On the other hand, there are 
cases of relapsing dysentery with clinical characters 
such as are described as belonging to amrebic dys- 
entery in which the amaba cannot be found. More- 
over, as is well known, the amoeba, or an amceba 
which to the clinician is hard to distinguish from 
Entamceba Jiistolytica, is often found in perfectly 
healthy stools, in cases in which there is no reason 
whatever to suspect the existence of disease of the 
alimentary canal.* 

* Gasscr, in material supplied by 153 cases of dysentery 
principally soldiers from Oran although he found Amceba coli 
in 45 out of 109 acute cases, observed no relationship whatever 
between the number of amoebae present in the stools and the 
severity of the disease. In 34 chronic cases he found the 
amceba in 13 ; and in 8 cases of chronic diarrhoea supervening 
on dysentery he found it in 5. In the stools of 20 healthy 
individuals from Oran he found the amoeba in 4. He further 
states that he failed to find, or to recognize, the amceba in 
stained sections of dysenteric bowel. He concludes, therefore, 
against the amoeba having anything more than an accidental 
relationship to the disease ; and that, in place of the amceba 
causing the dysentery, it is, if anything, the dysentery which 
causes or, rather, favours the amceba ; in other words, that the 
amoeba finds in dysenteric discharges a favourable medium for 
multiplying in. 

Celli and Fiocca studied the parasitology of dysentery in 
material from 62 typical cases some from Italy, some from 
Egypt. They, too, conclude that Amoeba coli is not a direct 
cause of dysentery, and for the following reasons : (a) Epidemic, 
endemic, and sporadic dysentery may occur without amoebae 
in the stools, (b) Dysentery may be induced by the ingestion, 
or by the injection into the bowel, of dysenteric faeces which 
have been ascertained by microscopical examination to be quite 
free from amoebae, (c) Amoebae are very common in countries 
in which dysentery occurs, hence their frequency in the stools 
of dysenteries in these countries ; they are there accidentally. 
They further point out that A. coli is not the only amoeba to 
be found in the intestine ; A. guttula, diaphana, rermicularis, 
oblonga, and rcctularis, besides proteits, have all been found 
there. A. coli has attracted attention, they consider, principally 
on account of its movements and size ; whereas the other amoeba?, 



518 DYSENTERY [CHAP. 

This occurrence of amoebae in the stools of healthy 
individuals, and their absence from the stools in a 
proportion of cases possessing the clinical characters 
of the type called "amoebic," have suggested caution 
in definitely accepting the micro-organism as the 
true cause of this type of dysenteric disease, and 
suggest a suspicion that after all it may be merely an 
epiphenomenon. Evidence, however, is steadily ac- 
cumulating corroborative of Schaudinn's opinion. 

Many attempts have been made to induce dysen- 
tery by the injection of animals, or by feeding them 
with material stools, liver pus, cultures containing 
amoebae. In a proportion of instances, especially 
where injections were used, amoebic dysentery has 
resulted. But as it is impossible to secure the 
amoeba in pure culture, unless it may be in liver pus, 
these experiments are open to the objection that 
the successes depended possibly not on the amoebae 
present, but on other micro-organisms of a patho- 
genic nature unavoidably introduced at the same 
time. 

Especially important is one of Schaudinn's experi- 
ments. It has a very distinct bearing on the way 
in which dysentery may be acquired tinder natural 
conditions, and as indicating the necessity for the 
immediate disinfection or destruction of dysenteric 
stools. Schaudinn fed cats on fresh dysenteric stool 
without inducing disease ; but when he carefully 
dried the stools at natural temperatures, that is to 
say, when he had induced the JEntamcebce histoU/ticcr, 
they contained to encyst and form encapsuled spores, 
and then administered the material to cats, he pro- 
duced typical amoebic dysentery. In other words, 
the amoebae in fresh stool, being in their unpro- 
tected vegetative state, were destroyed by the gastric 

with perhaps quite as good a claim to be considered pathogenic, 
inasmuch as they can be detected only in specially prepared 
cultures, elude the eye, even of the sharpest observer, in stools 
prepared in the ordinary way. 

Craig, Vedder, and Hoyt have found cysts of A. coli in 70 per 
cent, of Filipinos and in 50 per cent, of American soldiers in the 
Philippines the examinations having being made after the 
administration of Kochelle salts. 



xxix] AMCEBIC DYSENTERY 519 

juice; but their resistant spores in dried stool, not 
being affected by this secretion, passed on through the 
stomach, to develop in the lower bowel. This experi- 
ment has been amply confirmed, especially by Wenyon 
and Darling.* 

Histolytica cysts are common in the stools of 
patients during the latent period of the disease, 
and also in the stools of normal natives (Hartmann), 
who thus may be regarded as being carriers of the 
infection. 

The intimate connection of abscess of the liver 
with dysentery, and the presence of amoebae in the 
contents of a large proportion of liver abscesses, are 
now well-ascertained facts, and constitute a powerful, 
though by no means conclusive, argument for regard- 
ing the amoeba as an etiological element, if not the 
cause, of amoebic dysentery. 

There is yet another circumstance in connection 
with liver abscess which is not without significance. 
In a large proportion of liver abscesses the usual 
pyogenic bacteria are absent. This has been proved 
over and over again. Cultures made with such pus 
generally remain sterile. It is a very suggestive 
coincidence that it is just in those forms of suppura- 
tiye hepatitis in which the usual pyogenic organisms 
are absent that this other parasite is present. More- 
over, a liver abscess is not like ordinary abscesses; 
it has no proper abscess wall. Liver pus is not like 
pus elsewhere : it contains proportionately very few 
pus corpuscles; but it contains much tissue debris, 
many blood cells, and much granular matter. As an 
abscess it is altogether peculiar. A peculiar effect 
suggests a peculiar cause. 

* More recently confirmation of these experiments lias been 
adduced by Walker and Sellards (Phil. Journ. Sci., Aug., 1913). 
These investigators induced amoebic dysentery in 4 out of 20 per- 
sons by administering vegetative amoebae from dysenteric stools 
enclosed in gelatin capsules. In the remaining 16 who did 
not exhibit dysenteric symptoms, cysts containing four nuclei 
(tetragena cysts) were subsequently found in the stools. Similar 
experiments with a parallel series of men fed with cultures of 
several species of free-living amoebae and also with Entamceba coli 
produced no symptoms whatever, though cysts typical of these 
species were, after a short incubation period, found in their stools. 



520 DYSENTERY [CHAP. 

Anyone who has watched the movements of 
amoebae on the warm stage can readily understand how 
such an organism might break down and separate the 
anatomical elements of a friable organ like the liver, 
and so cause a softening a cavity resembling an 
abscess. It feeds on the tissues, in fact, and to grow 
and multiply it must disintegrate their structures and 
consume their cells. Amoebae occur much more fre- 
quently in liver abscess than is generally supposed; 
a circumstance strengthening the argument for re- 
garding this parasite as being in causal relationship 
to that lesion, and therefore, pro tanto, to dysentery. 
In support of this statement, I may mention that 
recently Wenyon has produced not only amoebic 
dysentery but also liver abscess in cats by injecting 
stools containing large numbers of E. tetragena cysts, 
while similar experiments with E. coli cysts were 
uniformly negative.* 

Pathology of amoebic dysentery. The main seat 
of the ulceration in amoebic dysentery is the large 
intestine; the small is rarely affected, though the 
lymphatic glands and liver may be invaded. Single 
or multiple abscesses of the latter organ are often 
concomitant features. 

It is probable that amoebic lesions unmodified by 
bacterial action are rarely seen. In nearly every 
fatal case the mucous membrane is the subject of a 
secondary bacterial infection, so intense as to destroy 
all the amoebae, which can in such cases be demon- 
strated only in the deeper layers of the intestinal 
'wall. 

The ulcers, which are most numerous in the 
caecum, hepatic, splenic, and sigmoid flexures, may 
be recognized by their circumscribed, punched-out 
appearance, the loss of tissue extending down to the 
muscular coats ; the intervening mucous membrane 
may be normal or show varying degrees of inflam- 
matory change. The coats of the intestine are much 
thickened ; the degree of thickening depending on 

* Kruse and Pasquale were able to produce dysentery in cats 
by means of rectal injection of liver pus containing amoebae. 
Harris produced similar results in dogs by the same means, and 
Gauducheau by introducing liver pus intravenously. 



xxix] AMOEBIC DYSENTERY 521 

the chronicity of the infection ; they may be matted 
together and adherent to the liver and spleen. The 
intestines themselves are very friable and easily tear 
when handled. 

In chronic cases polypoid gangrenous tags of 
mucous membrane hang into the lumen of the gut. 
The surface of isolated ulcers may be covered with 
large yellow and gangrenous sloughs. The intestinal 
contents in these cases are composed of dark, almost 
black hsemorrhagic faecal matter possessing a charac- 
teristic penetrating odour. Circumscribed areas of 
the large intestine, or the entire mucosa, may be thus 
affected, and may then resemble lesions of bacillary 
origin in which extensive sloughing has taken place. 
Perforation of the large intestine, resulting in purulent 
peritonitis, is common. Ulceration of the appendix 
may also be found. Contractions often leading to 
occlusion and scars, and pigmentation at the seat of 
old ulcerations, are commonly encountered in juxta- 
position to areas of bowel in which the process is still 
active. 

Microscopic sections through an amo3bic ulcer 
(Fig. 81) reveal amoebae invading the submucous coat. 
There are subacute concomitant inflammatory changes. 
The blood-vessels are dilated. .There are no haemor- 
rhages, but the tissue reaction, as evidenced by in- 
vasion by fibroblasts and by round-cell infiltration, is 
not marked. Red blood-corpuscles may often be de- 
monstrated inside the amoebae. In more extensive 
cases, where ulceration has extended into the circular 
muscular coat, amoebae may be seen penetrating 
between the fibres and even inside the dilated 
capillary vessels of the serous coat. 

The adjacent apparently healthy mucous mem- 
brane shows comparatively few microscopic changes ; 
there is some round-cell infiltration of the inter- 
stitial tissue, into which amoebae may be seen pene- 
trating and actually lying within the crypts of 
Lieberkiihn. Bacilli can be demonstrated in great 
numbers in the superficial layers of the ulcer. The 
amoebae can be stained in sections by haematoxylin 
and eosin or by iron haematoxylin (see p. 529). In 
R* 



522 



DYSENTERY 



[CHAP. 



miliary abscesses of the liver amcebse may be 
demonstrated lying amongst the necrotic cells ; even 
in inflamed liver tissue which has not yet pro- 
ceeded to pus formation they may be occasionally 
recognized. 



^'Mm^ii^Xtm >^ "'> 

<t-7i^fy'r.''- :iN-r . . /IS ' - ."-' 
<: % ? <%#,** Si / A 



^;* : ;^^ ! J*^3^'*^> 



m 



'%:; 



,V,^ 



fj"^> 

>*> V'* 1 *'' 

&S#i 



tfr&K- ,iV 

:-'^^^ 

1 3*/&J* wmt^T* >, 



1 -V .V 

:*'; 



*feiSi 



Fig. 81. Transverse section through base of an amoebic ulcer. 
(After Bohr.) 

A, Amoeba in the subrnucous layer and invading the mucous membrane where 
a section passes through a fold of apparently healthy mucosa. 

Stained by Heidenhain's iron-hasmatoxylin. 

Pathogenic bacilli have not been isolated from 
the heart's blood or from other organs. 

The main points of distinction in the pathology 
of the two leading forms of dysentery are summarized 
in the following table : 



xxix] BALANTIDIUM DYSENTERY 523 

BACILLARY AMCEBIC 

An acute diffuse inflamma- A local lesion of the large 
tion of the mucous membrane bowel, with characteristic ul- 
of the large intestine, leading ceration due to penetration of 
to necrosis and destruction of mucosa and submucosa by 
glandular tissue. amoebae. 

No diffuse necrosis except 
in cases where secondary bac- 
terial infection has taken 
place. 

Ileum often affected. Ileum rarely affected. 

Perforation of intestine and Perforation of intestine and 
intestinal adhesions rare. intestinal adhesions common. 

In some cases haemorrhage Infiltration of submucosa 
and destruction of nutrient not marked. Local ulcera- 
vessels and infiltration of sub- tion often extends down to 
mucosa to such a degree as to serous coat, 
render recovery of function 
impossible. 

Other organs not impli- Liver often implicated, 
cated. 

B. dysenteric can be isolated Amoebae demonstrable in 
from necrosed mucous mem- local lesions and in the 
brane and from the stools. stools. 

As already indicated, mixed infections of both 
forms may occur. 

BALANTIDIUM DYSENTERY 

The occasional occurrence of Balantidium coli 
in the faeces, particularly in association with dys- 
enteric diarrhoea, has been recognized for the last 
fifty years. It is only lately, and more particularly 
since Strong and Musgrave called attention to the 
subject, that B. coli has come to be regarded as the 
germ cause of a particular type of colitis resembling 
in many respects amoebic dysentery. The parasite has 
been studied zoologically, more especially in tem- 
perate climates, but it seems probable that extended 
observation will show that the balantidium is equally 
if not more prevalent in warm climates. 

Balantidium coli is an oval-shaped ciliated in- 
fusorian measuring 0-07 to O'l mm. by 0-05 to 
0'07 mm. Its anatomical characters may be gathered 
from Fig. 82. It reproduces by division, budding, 
and conjugation. Occasionally, losing its cilia, it may 
become encysted. 



524 DYSENTERY [CHAP. 

How it attains the human intestine is not known, 
but as it is a common parasite of the pig and apes, 
in which it occasions a fatal form of dysentery, it 
is likely that one or other of these animals is a 
usual source of infection. As attempts to infect 
animals experimentally have failed, it is reasonable 
to conclude that the infusorian, on occasion, assumes 
some resistant form which enables it to withstand 
the gastric and intestinal juices on the way to its 
habitat, the end of the ileum and the large intestine. 
Although it may live for a considerable time in water 
or faeces (one hour to three days), it has not been 
grown on culture media. In liquid stools the balan- 
tidium exhibits great activity, indulging in locomotive 
as well as in rotary movements. 

The symptoms of balantidium dysen- 
tery are, in the present state of know- 
ledge, indistinguishable from those of 
other forms of dysentery. The disease 
is chronic in type, its special nature be- 
ing discoverable only on microscopical 
examination of the stools. Generally 
only one or two balantidia are found, 
but as many as twenty may be seen at 

Fig. 82. Balan- ,. . ' ,, ,, J f ,-, J . 

tidium coii. a time in every field of the microscope. 
In the large number of cases col- 
lected from different authors by Strong, together with 
those observed by himself, the mortality amounted 
to about 30 per cent. In many cases there were no 
symptoms save occasional diarrhoea. How much of 
this was due to the parasite and how much to con- 
current and independent disease it is difficult to state. 
In 30 cases in which autopsies have been made a 
variety of dysenteric lesions, from catarrhal conges- 
tion and diphtheritic patches to extensive ulceration, 
have been found. On section Strong demonstrated the 
balantidium not only in exudate on the surface of the 
bowel, but congregated in large numbers in. the follicles, 
and embedded in the tissues forming the base of the 
ulcerations, including submucosa and muscular coat, 
and even in the lumen of blood-vessels and lymphatics. 
Bowman mentions that the colon is affected in its 







xxix] LAMBLIA INFECTION 525 

whole extent with a mass of ulcers from which hang 
shreds of necrotic tissue lesions resembling those of 
amoebic dysentery. 

In the treatment of balantidial dysentery Walker 
finds from his experimental work that organic com- 
pounds of silver are the most effective. Barlow 
recommends methylene blue in 2-grain doses three 
times a day for not less than ten days. 

LAMBLIA INFECTION 

Besides E. histolytica, E. coli, and B. coli, certain 
other protozoa occur from time to time in the in- 
testinal canal and appear in the faeces. Of these, 
perhaps Lamblia intestinalis has the best claim to 
be regarded as of pathological importance. Its usual 
habitat is the upper part of the small intestine. 
When newly passed in the faeces it is very active, 
presenting a characteristic appearance (see p. 939). 

Lamblia infection is associated at times with a 
type of recurring diarrhoea accompanied with abdo- 
minal discomfort and the passage of mucus in which 
the free form of the parasite may be found in vast 
numbers. On recovery from one of these attacks 
only the encysted form of the lamblia can be found. 
Drugs, including emetine, have hitherto failed to 
eradicate this parasite, which may continue to appear 
in the stools, either in the flagellate form or encysted, 
for many years. 

Trichemonas intestinalis, though more common 
than the foregoing, has less, if any, claim to patho- 
genicity. Its presence seems to be favoured by 
conditions in which diarrhoea or fluidity of stool is 
a feature."* 

The germs of dysentery often water- 
borne. Notwithstanding the vast amount of specu- 
lation, time, and work expended in endeavouring to 
ascertain what the germ or germs of dysentery may be, 

* For a detailed and very lucid description of these and other 
protozoal intestinal parasites, the reader is recommended to con- 
sult an illustrated paper by \Venyon in the Lancet of November 
27th, 1915. 



526 DYSENTERY [CHAP. 

it cannot be said that as yet we are even near the 
complete solution of the problem. One thing, however, 
is fairly well ascertained, and that is that these germs 
are often introduced by means of drinking-water. The 
statistically ascertained improvement in the public 
health in respect of dysentery in such large towns as 
Calcutta and Madras, following so closely on the 
introduction of improved water supplies, and the 
improvement in the health of the British Navy 
following the introduction of regulations requiring 
that in all places in which the water supply is not 
above suspicion the drinking-water served out to the 
men shall be distilled, constitute powerful testimony 
in favour of regarding dysentery as a water-borne 
disease. This conclusion receives additional support 
from the occurrence of epidemics of dysentery in 
the crews of ships which have watered at polluted 
sources, as well as from the occurrence of similar 
epidemics in large institutions in which, by some 
accident, surface water has leaked into the water 
supply. This does not exclude the possibility of 
other sources of infection, such as privies, dust, flies 
(especially), fouled vegetables, and the vessels or 
instruments used by dysenteries. 

The germs of dysentery may *>e fly-borne. 
In certain parts of the world Fiji, for example 
where water can be definitely excluded as a source of 
infection and where extensive epidemics of dysentery 
are of annual occurrence, it seems probable that the 
germ is conveyed and diffused by house-flies. Bahr 
has shown by direct observation that flies fed on 
faecal matter containing dysentery bacilli ingest the 
germ, which they may subsequently deposit on human 
food either in their own faeces, or by regurgitation, 
or by their soiled feet. This observer associates the 
annual dysentery epidemics in Fiji with the concur- 
rent enormous multiplication of house-flies, and has 
isolated dysentery bacilli from the intestinal tract 
of wild flies caught in the vicinity of patients suffer- 
ing from the disease. In the case of the dysentery 
bacillus he has cor firmed Graham-Smith's observation 
on the persistent vitality and virulence of bacilli of 



xxix] PREDISPOSING CAUSES 527 

the coli group in the intestinal tract of the domestic 
fly, where they are capable of surviving five or more 
days. The same holds good as regards amo3bic 
dysentery. Wenyoii found E. histolytica cysts in 
the intestinal canal of flies that had fed on dysentery 
stools. 

Predisposing and exciting causes. It seems 
not improbable that, in conditions of sound health, the 
several pathogenic organisms of dysentery may exist 
in and pass through the alimentary canal without 
attacking the tissues or giving rise to disease. So 
long as the mucous surface is sound and vigorous, 
it has considerable power of protecting itself against 
many such organisms. It is very probably the same 
in this respect with the dysentery germ or germs 
as with the cholera vibrio. Probably it is only 
on the establishment of some condition of lowered 
vitality, such as may be induced by catarrhal troubles, 
chill (a powerful excitant of dysentery), irritating 
food, bad food, constipation, malaria, scurvy, starva- 
tion, and so forth all well-recognized exciting causes 
that the dysentery germ can overpower the natural 
protective agencies and light up the specific lesions. 
It is a well-known fact that it is in such circum- 
stances that dysentery is most apt to declare itself. 
Hence the importance of avoiding these things in 
tropical climates, more especially in the presence of 
a bad water supply or of an epidemic. 

The capacity for latency often exhibited by the 
germs of dysentery, as of some other intestinal germs, 
sprue for example, is remarkable. I have encountered 
cases in which a dysenteric infection (amoebic) con- 
tracted in the tropics did not manifest itself for 
several months after the patient had returned to 
England. I have also encountered dysenteries that 
recurred in England at intervals of one, two, and 
more years up to twenty after infection originally 
acquired in Egypt. 

Influence of age, sex, and occupation. 
All ages are subject to dysentery. Children are 
especially liable to the bacillary form, which in them 
is often fatal. Occupation has no special influence. 



528 DYSENTERY [CHAP. 

Both sexes are liable. Pregnancy, miscarriage, and 
the puerperal state are grave complications. 

Diagnosis. Provided reasonable care be exer- 
cised, diagnosis, especially in acute cases, is usually 
easy. In chronic cases the question of seat worms, 
haemorrhoids, polypus, stricture, tubercle, malignant 
and specific disease, proctitis, ulceration, abscess about 
the rectum, and tumour in the bowel may require to 
be considered. Diagnosis must never be taken for 
granted. In every case stools must be inspected ; and 
in every case in which there is any probability of 
rectal disease some of the methods of digital or specu- 
lar examination must be carried out. 

A diagnosis of dysentery having been arrived at, 
it becomes necessary, especially in view of treatment, 
to arrive at a correct conclusion as to the type of the 
particular case. As the practitioner has principally 
to deal with either bacillary or amoebic dysenteries 
(very rarely with other forms) he should at once set 
about ascertaining to which of these two categories 
it belongs. The following table enumerates the points 
to be attended to : 

AM(EBIC DYSENTERY BACILLARY DYSENTERY 

Clinical. Insidious commence- Generally acute in charac- 
ment as a rule. No fever in ter. Often an initial fever, 
uncomplicated cases. Gen- Runs its course and not prone 
erallysubacute or chronic in to relapse ; one attack confers 
type. Prone to recur or re- a certain degree of immunity, 
lapse. Often associated with 
hepatitis and liver abscess. 

Bacteriological. No serum re- Serum agglutinates cul- 

action. Entamwba histo- tures of B. dysenteries, which 

lytica in stools. can be cultured from the 

stools on Conradi - Drygalski 

medium. Absence of Enta- 

mceba histolytica from the stools. 

Reaction to treatment. "Rapidly Not affected by emetine or 
improves on emetine or by ipecacuanha, but reacts to 
ipecacuanha treatment. injection of polyvalent anti- 

serum. 

The Entamceba histolytica when present is usually 
easily found in the stools, and is readily recognized 
by the technique described at p. 515. 

Unfortunately, from the point of view of rapid 



xxix] DIAGNOSIS 529 

diagnosis, in severe cases of amoebic origin (such as 
those described by Kuenen and others, and in which 
gangrenous sloughs are common in the stools) the 
amceba cannot as a rule be demonstrated during life, 
though it may be found in sections of the gut post 
mortem. In such cases it seems probable that the 
amceba has been removed from the superficial layers 
of the bowel by a secondary bacterial infection. It is 
necessary to bear this in mind in view of the specific 
treatment appropriate to these apparently desperate 
cases (see p. 538). And for the same reason it must 
not be overlooked that cases of mixed infection with 
B. dysenterice and Entamceba histolytica do occur ; such 
cases have been reported by Rogers. 

In order to obtain permanent preparations it is necessary 
to fix the amosbse while still alive ; desiccation distorts them 
to such an extent as to obliterate all their liner structural 
characters. For this purpose Schaudinn and Wasieliewski 
have invented a special technique which gives perfect pictures 
of the nucleus, disposition 'of protoplasm, vacuoles, etc. The 
following is a summary of their rather complicated methods : 

Methods for Staining Amceba in Stools 

1. Schaudinn's method. Can be used either for demon- 
strating amoebae in films or an abbreviated form for showing 
the organisms in sections of tissue. A thin film of the mucus 
is made on a cover-glass and dropped while still wet, face 
downwards, into a Petri dish containing a fixing mixture, which 
should be heated to steaming-point (50 y C.). 

(1) Fixing mixture. Absolute alcohol, g ; corrosive sub- 
limate, ; and \ per cent, glacial acetic ; fifteen minutes. 

(2) Rinse in weak spirit. 

(3) Alcohol 70 per cent. ; ten minutes. 

(4) Alcohol 70 per cent, and iodine (to dissolve corrosive 
sublimate) ; half an hour. 

(5) Alcohol 90 per cent. ; twenty minutes to one hour. 

(6) Through alcohols of decreasing strength to tap- water. 

(7) Place film upwards in 4-per-cent. iron-alum overnight. 

(8) Rinse in distilled water and place in Heidenhain's iron- 
haematoxylin solution six to twenty-four hours. 

(9) Differentiate in 1 -per- cent, iron-alum solution under 
microscope till nuclei of amoebae are clear. 

(10) Pass through increasing strength of alcohols up to 
absolute, then two changes of xylol, and mount in Canada 
balsam. 

N.B. The films must not at any time be allowed to dry. 

2. Wasieliew ski's method. Wasieliewski has obtained 
(1913) very beautiful specimens of amoebae stained by 



530 DYSENTERY [CHAP. 

Giemsa. The films are made on cover-glasses, fixed in osmic- 
acid vapour, rinsed in distilled water, and stained with dilute 
Giemsa (1 : 20 dilution). This method is not so good as the 
foregoing for demonstrating the nuclear structure. 

Isolation of B. dysenteric from the stools. The stool is 
collected under as aseptic conditions as is possible. A flake 
of mucus is taken up with a sterilized platinum loop and 
diluted with sterile normal saline or broth. Some observers 
prefer to incubate in McConkey's bile-broth, which inhibits 
the growth of all but bacilli of the coli group. Large plates 
(6-in. Petri dishes) of Conradi-Drygalski medium* (crystal- 
violet-litmus-lactose-nutrose agar), or of lactose-neutral-red 
agar,f are then spread in various dilutions and incubated. 
On Conradi-Drygalski the colonies of the dysentery bacillus 
are recognizable in twenty-four hours by their transparent 
blue colour, and on neutral-red-agar by their transparency in 
contradistinction to the red colonies of B. coli. Such colonies 
often smell strongly of spermin. The bacilli are further 
recognized by their morphology, their Gram-negative char- 
acter, their sugar reactions, agglutination tests with the 
patient's serum and a polyvalent serum, and further b) T their 
toxic action on guineapigs when injected intraperitoneally. 

In African and West Indian cases the possibility 
of bilharzia disease must be borne in mind, and a 
microscopical examination made of the urinary sedi- 
ments and of the faeces. So, too, in cases from 
the Far East, Schistosomum japonicum and other 
intestinal and hepatic parasites must not be forgotten. 

In children, especially, intussusception may occur 
independently, or as a complication of dysentery; 
the possibility of this must not be overlooked. 

Chronic dysentery is often diagnosed chronic diar- 
rhoea or even sprue. This error will be avoided by 
careful inquiry into the early history of the case, the 
detection of mucus, of amoebae, of leucocytes or of red 
blood-corpuscles in the stools, and the occurrence of 
tenesmiis. Careful inquiry for any history there 
may be of occasional exacerbations in which straining, 
and blood and mucus in the stools, are more or less 

* The composition of the Conradi-Drygalski medium is as 
follows : Water, 750 c.c. ; lemco, 10 grin. ; nutrose, 7 grm. ; 
salt, 3 grm. ; peptone, 7 grm. ; agar, 20 grm. ; litmus solution, 
50 c.c. ; lactose, 5 grm. ; normal caustic soda (10 per cent.), 
2 c.c. ; crystal violet (O'l -per- cent, solution), 4 c.c. 

t Neutral-red-agar : Agar, 20 grm. ; peptone, 20 grm. ; lactose, 
10 grm. ; sodium taurocholate, 5 grm. ; water, 1,000 c.c., contain- 
ing 4 c.c. 1-per-cent. watery solution neutral red. 



xxix] TREATMENT 531 

prominent features, will often lead to a correct 
diagnosis. 

Treatment. The treatment of dysentery re- 
quires much judgment and very careful supervision. 
In former days it was the fashion to bleed repeatedly 
and to a large amount, and at the same time to ad- 
minister large doses of calomel amounting in the 
aggregate to ounces and of opium. It is not to be 
wondered at that the mortality was excessive. 

Nowadays better and more rational methods 
prevail. A most important part of our modern plans 
has for its object not only the suppression of the germ 
cause of the disease, but also to afford the diseased 
organs favourable conditions for repair ; not so much 
to endeavour to heal them as to give them the oppor- 
tunity of healing themselves. 

If called on to treat a case of what appears to 
be dysentery, our first duty is to assure ourselves that 
the diagnosis is correct. We must inspect the stools, 
though unfortunately we cannot differentiate from 
mere inspection alone to which form the dysenteric 
stool belongs, and, until the case is quite recovered, 
we must inspect them daily or frequently. Their con- 
dition is the surest guide in the management of this 
disease. From them we can form a fairly accurate 
idea of what is going on in the bowel, and from them 
we can judge of the effects of diet and of drugs. 

Importance of rest. It is with an inflamed 
bowel as with an inflamed joint : the first and all- 
important indication to fulfil is, after removing the 
causes of irritation, to place the part at rest. Could 
these two indications the removal of the cause of 
irritation and the repose of the organ affected be 
fulfilled thoroughly, repair would at once set in. Un- 
fortunately, the affected surface being so inaccessible, 
we cannot always remove the irritant by directly 
applied local treatment, nor can we place the parts 
involved at absolute rest. We can, however, partially 
meet these indications quite sufficiently, as a rule, to 
ensure recovery. 

The patient, then, should at once be sent to bed. 
This in itself has a marked influence on the bowel. 



532 DYSENTERY [CHAP. 

Repose must be as nearly complete as possible. In 
acute cases and during exacerbations in chronic cases 
the patient must not be allowed to get out of bed ; 
when he has a call to stool he must use the bed-pan. 
To a certain extent this enforcement of rest is com 
parable to the placing of an inflamed leg in a splint 
and elevating it. It ensures some degree of mechanical 
rest, and relieves the blood-vessels of the inflamed 
part of a certain amount of hydrostatic pressure. 

Food in acute, dysentery. The indication of rest 
we further endeavour to meet by stopping all solid 
food. Were it possible, it would be well to stop 
all food. This, of course, is impossible, and so we 
make a compromise between the therapeutical indica- 
tion and physiological necessity by reducing the diet 
to a minimum and selecting only such foods as, while 
possessing considerable nutritive value, yield but a 
small or non-irritating faecal residue. The tongue is 
a fair index to the sort of food most likely to suit the 
case. When this organ is coated, indicating gastric 
catarrh, small quantities of thin chicken soup, egg 
albumin, thin barley- or rice-water, are better borne 
than milk ; when the tongue is or has become clean, 
then milk, pure, diluted with barley- or rice-water, 
or peptonized, is the best diet. Alcohol is generally 
contraindicated, but in cases of collapse small feeds 
of white wine whey may be given with advantage. 
These foods should be taken in small quantities at a 
time, a little every hour or two. They must be given 
neither hot nor cold, as food when either too hot or 
too cold is apt to excite peristalsis and to cause colic 
and straining. 

Malaria and scorbutus. If upon inquiry it is 
found that there is reason to suspect either a malarial 
or a scorbutic element in the case, treatment must 
be modified accordingly. Careful practitioners never 
forget to ascertain if these important complicating 
elements are present or not. If malaria be suspected, 
or if temperature is markedly raised, it is well to 
make a careful microscopical examination of the blood 
for the parasite ; if this be found, then quinine must 
be freely administered either by the mouth or, if the 



xxix] TREATMENT 533 

bowels are very irritable, by intramuscular injection. 
The presence of scorbutus, of course, indicates fruit 
juices and fresh unboiled milk, in addition to the 
usual treatment for dysentery. 

Drug treatment. A dose of castor oil and laudanum 
is a good preliminary in the treatment of dysentery ; 
indeed, many cases are promptly checked thereby, 
and require no further treatment beyond rest and 
dieting for a day or two. 

The drugs which have proved of most service in 
the treatment of severe dysentery are ipecacuanha, 
or its alkaloid emetine, in amoebic dysentery, and 
one or other of the aperient sulphates either of 
magnesium or of sodium, opium, and calomel in bacil- 
lary dysentery. In this latter variety subcutaneous 
or intravenous injections of a polyvalent antiserum 
(Shiga's or Lister Institute) should be administered, 
together with aperient salines. Until a microscopical 
examination of the stools has been made it is difficult 
to prognosticate in any given case whether ipecacu- 
anha, or its alkaloid, is likely to prove the more effec- 
tive drug, or whether the sulphates or calomel will 
answer better. In every case one or the other ought 
to be exhibited at once ; one failing after a fair trial, 
the other, unless manifestly contraindicated, should 
get a chance. 

Ipecacuanha. In English practice ipecacuanha, 
or emetine, is generally the first to be tried. Ipeca- 
cuanha must be given on an empty stomach. The 
best plan is to interdict all food for three hours ; 
then to give 10 or 20 drops of laudanum in a table- 
spoonful of water and, at the same time, to apply a 
mustard poultice to the epigastrium. About twenty 
minutes later, when the patient is coming under the 
influence of the laudanum, 20 to 30 some give as 
much as 60 gr. of ipecacuanha in pill, bolus, capsule, 
or in suspension in about half a wineglassf ul of water, 
are administered. With a view to prevent vomiting, 
the patient is directed to lie flat on his back, using a 
low pillow, and not to eat, drink, speak, or move for 
at least four hours. Probably he will fall asleep. 
Should he feel nauseated, he must as much as possible 



534 DYSENTERY [CHAP. 

resist the desire to vomit. With the same object in 
view, when saliva begins to collect in the mouth, as 
it is apt to do in such circumstances, it must not be 
swallowed ; on a slight sign from the patient the 
nurse should remove the accumulating saliva with a 
handkerchief. If much saliva be swallowed, it is 
sure to provoke vomiting. In some instances these 
precautions suffice to avert emesis. Should, however, 
the ipecacuanha be brought up within an hour of its 
being swallowed, the dose had better be repeated so 
soon as the nausea has subsided, the same precautions 
against vomiting being observed. 

After six or eight hours, and when all feeling of 
nausea has subsided, small quantities of food may be 
given, and frequent and fractional feeding persisted 
in for six or eight hours, or until the following day, 
when the dose of ipecacuanha must be repeated. In 
many instances one or two such doses abort the 
dysentery, and the acute symptoms rapidly subside. 
It is wise, however, to go on with the ipecacuanha 
once or twice a day for at least a week or longer. 
It is a good practice to reduce the ipecacuanha by 
5 gr. every day. If the drug is doing good, copious 
fseculent pultaceous yellow stools will be passed after 
a day or two. This diarrhoea, unless excessive and 
attended with straining or other dysenteric symp- 
toms, must not be checked or regarded as an indica- 
tion for stopping the drug. 

Thus I wrote in previous editions of this work. 
My opinion of the value of ipecacuanha is still un- 
shaken, but the use of the crude drug, which is 
attended by many inconveniences, has been super- 
seded in great measure by the hypodermic or intra- 
muscular injections of its alkaloid emetine, as advised 
by Leonard Eogers. The hydrochloride of emetine 
is given in doses of -| 1 gr. in distilled water hypo- 
dermically up to 1 gr. a day. The stools generally 
become normal on the third day, but it is advisable 
to continue the injections for a week or longer. Un- 
fortunately, one course of the drug does not always 
prevent relapses, but in such cases, if the injections 
be persisted with, a permanent cure will generally 



xxix] TEEATMENT 535 

result. In cases where hypodermic injection cannot 
be made the emetine may be given per os in capsules 
in 1-2-gr. doses without provoking vomiting, and in 
very acute or chronic cases in solution by rectal 
enemiata. The hypodermic injection is often followed 
by slight irritation at the site of injection, but as a 
rule by no more serious symptoms. The intramuscular 
route is free from this objection. It is advisable to 
combine the emetine treatment with small doses of 
some aperient, preferably castor oil. 

Rogers's discovery was suggested by Vedder's valuable work 
on the action of ipecacuanha on amoebae. Working with cul- 
tures of S. dysentwitf, Vedder found that solutions of ipecacu- 
anha had no effect on cultures of that organism, but in cultures 
of amcebao he found that a dilution of 1 in 10,000 to 1 in 50,000 
was enough to destroy them, though solutions of ipecacuanha 
sine emetina had no deleterious effect. The toxic constituent 
of the ipecacuanha was thus shown to be the emetine salts ; 
they killed amoebae in dilutions as high as 1 in 100',000. The 
physiological action of emetine was ascertained to be negligible; 
7*5 gr. failed to produce vomiting when injected into a dog. 

The use of emetine, especially its abuse, is not 
altogether free from risk. In a considerable pro- 
portion of cases it gives rise to diarrhoea and, in a 
few, to degrees of peripheral neuritis characterized by 
feelings of weakness, sometimes amounting to paresis 
of the extremities, and impairment of deglutition. 
Barlow remarks that if it be continued in full doses 
for from two to four weeks the consequent diarrhoea 
of irritation may aggravate rather than cure a 
dysentery. 

Aperient sulphates. In bacillary dysentery ipeca- 
cuanha is valueless. In this type of the disease the 
aperient sulphates are indicated, especially sodium 
sulphate as being less irritating than magnesium 
sulphate. Either may be given in drachm doses in a 
little hot water, or in cinnamon water, every quarter 
of an hour until a purgative effect is produced; or 
they may be given in a large dose half an ounce 
to begin with, followed up by smaller doses if 
necessary. These large doses must not be given 
when the patient is feeble or in any sense collapsed. 
Buchanan, speaking from a large experience of dys- 



536 DYSENTERY [CHAP. 

entery in Indian gaols, recommends one or two tea- 
spoonfuls of the following stock mixture every one or 
two hours until free gentle purgation is produced. 
It should then be continued sufficiently often to 
secure gentle purgation, and for one or two days 
after the mucus and blood have disappeared. 

fy Magnesii sulphatis ... ... ... 5'j- 

Acidi sulphurici dil. ... ... ... 5"j- 

Tinct. zingiber. ... ... ... ... 3\ij. 

Aquae ... ... ... ... ad viij. 

If the stools become watery the mixture must 
be stopped at once. The lessening of tenesmus and 
the production of copious, soft, fseculent stools are 
the test of the successful action of the sulphates. 

Calomel. Should these means fail to control a 
dysentery, and should the bloody mucoid stools persist 
and the griping and tenesmus continue, recourse may 
be had to calomel in combination with opium and 
ipecacuanha a grain of each every five or six hours 
the effect being watched and salivation avoided. 
Some give calomel from the outset as a routine treat- 
ment in dysentery, either in 5-gr. doses every six 
or eight hours, or in fractional doses every hour. 
This method was formerly much in vogue in Germany, 
and is probably best suited to the bacillary forms of 
the disease. 

Bismuth and opium. As a result of either line 
of treatment, the dysenteric symptoms may subside 
rapidly perhaps entirely. Sometimes, although the 
stools become faeculent, and the mucus and blood 
disappear, diarrhoea remains. This generally quickly 
yields to a salicylate of bismuth (10-20 gr.) and 
morphia (^ gr.) mixture. 

Other drugs. Simaruba (Ailanthus ylandulosa) 
sometimes succeeds where other measures have failed. 
It is a drug which, though nowadays neglected in 
Europe, is still much used in the East by so-called 
" dysentery doctors." Possibly it is specific, just as 
ipecacuanha is, as regards a particular germ type of 
dysentery as yet unidentified. It seems to be spe- 
cially serviceable when the case has become subacute 
or chronic. To be effective, it requires to be given 



xxix] TREATMENT 537 

in much larger doses than directed in the Pharma- 
copoeias. One method of preparation I have seen 
employed is as follows : Using an earthenware pot, 
boil J oz. of sirnaruba in 1 J pints of water for three 
hours, and then strain it. Let the patient remain 
in bed and drink this decoction on an empty stomach 
every second morning for four times. Food must 
consist of milk and farinaceous stuffs. Another 
method is to boil 1 oz. of simaruba in 12 oz. of water 
until it is reduced to 7 drachms;* to this 1 drachm 
of spirit is added. This preparation, also, must be 
made in either an earthenware or an enamelled dish. 
For an adult this is a suitable dose ; a child may 
take a fourth part. It should be taken every night 
for four nights.* Kho-sam (the seeds of Brucea 
sumatrana) is another drug with some reputation as 
an anti-dysenteric, probably in the amcebic form of 
the disease. 

Monsonia ovata. Maberly reports favourably on 
this South African plant in dysentery. He uses a 
tincture of 2J oz. of the dried plant to the pint of 
rectified spirit. It gave in his hands wonderful 
results, both in acute and in chronic cases which had 
resisted the ordinary remedies. 

Cinnamon, pomegranate, mangosteen rind, and 
other aromatics and astringents sometimes do good 
in chronic dysentery. 

I can offer no explanation of the action of any 
of these drugs in dysentery. We use them quite 
empirically. 

Intestinal antiseptics. Salol (10 to 15 gr.), izal, 
and cyllin in keratin capsules in doses of 60 to 
90 minims of pure cyllin per diem, are sometimes 

* Appended is the formula of a preparation of simaruba 
much used in Shanghai, and there known as "Rhein's Specific 
Remedy for Diarrhoea and Dysentery." I understand that the 
formula was purchased by the Shanghai municipality for a con- 
siderable sum of money, so highly was it thought of by the 
European community of that city. Simaruba bark, 3 oz. ; 
Chinese cinnamon, 1 oz. ; boil in 3 quarts of water and allow it 
to evaporate down to 1 pint. When cool, strain into a brandy - 
oottle, add 3 tablespoonfuls of good brandy, and fill up by pouring 
cold water over the bark in the strainer till the bottle is full. 
Dose : A wineglassful three times a day. 



538 DYSENTERY [CHAP. 

followed by good results, especially in the bacillary 
form of dysentery, if combined with the aperient 
sulphates. 

Antiserum* In bacillary dysentery the intra- 
venous or subcutaneous injection of massive doses 
(20 to 40 c,c.) of antidysenteric sera has been 
followed by good results, especially in fulminating 
cases when collapse, due to absorption of the toxins 
of the bacillus, has occurred. 

A polyvalent serum that is the serum of a horse 
immunized against various strains of Bacillus dys- 
enterice has given the best results. Such sera are 
Vaillard and Dopter's, Shiga's, and that of the Lister 
Institute. The Lister Institute's serum is prepared 
by injecting a combination of Shiga's, Kruse's and 
Flexner's original strains, bacilli from El Tor, from 
asylum dysentery and from infantile diarrhoea. As 
much as 320 c.c. of this antiserum has been given 
intravenously within twenty-four hours in desperate 
cases. In children under 10 years of age 10 c.c. or 
less is a sufficient dose. The injection is made with 
a Roux syringe into a large vein, and is not followed 
by any untoward results. Serum treatment should 
be combined with the general treatment, including 
intestinal antiseptics and aperient salines. The com- 
bination of these three modes of treatment appears to 
be a rational one. Willmore and Savage report ex- 
cellent results from El Tor from this line of treat- 
ment, and Bahr in Fiji by similar methods reduced 
the mortality to under 2 per cent, as compared with 
13'2 per cent, of a parallel series of cases treated by 
aperient sulphates alone. 

Roux recommends the injection of antiserum as 
a prophylactic in bacillary dysentery. 

In urgent cases in -which collapse symptoms are 
manifest, and where there is no time for a differential 
diagnosis, it is advisable to combine the emetine and 
antiserum treatment. 

In cases of extreme exhaustion, occasioned by loss 
of fluid and straining at stool, continuous transfusion 

* The antiserum is put up m phials of 20 c.c. each, which is 
the usual dose for an adult. 



xxix] CHRONIC DYSENTERY 539 

with normal saline, in addition to other methods of 
treatment, is advisable. 

Relief of pain. During the early stages of an 
attack the patient may suffer much from griping and 
tenesmus. These are generally relieved by hot fomen- 
tations, turpentine stupes, or by a hot bath. An ex- 
cellent application is the Japanese hot-box or hand- 
warmer a small tin box containing a slowly burning 
cartridge of powdered charcoal. These hot-boxes, or 
an imitation under the name of istra, can now be 
procured in England. Three or four of them may 
be roughly sewn into a piece of flannel and laid on 
the abdomen. This application has the advantage 
of being very light, of not wetting the clothes, and 
of keeping warm for many hours. Tenesmus and 
dysuria are best relieved by morphia hypodermically ; 
or by an enema of a wineglassful of thin starch 
containing 40 or 50 drops of laudanum ; or by 
suppositories of morphia and cocaine. Washing out 
the rectum with a pint of very hot water, with or 
without boric acid, is sometimes effectual in remov- 
ing for a time, or, at all Events, of mitigating, the 
incessant desire to go to stool and to strain. Two 
drachms of bismuth with laudanum 30 minims and 
thin starch 2 oz. is also a good sedative enema. 

Treatment should be energetic and thorough at 
the outset of dysentery. Every effort must be made 
to prevent it from becoming chronic, as in this stage 
the disease is very difficult to treat successfully, and 
is prone to issue in permanent invalidism. 

Treatment of chronic dysentery. Formerly, 
as a matter of routine, my personal experience led me 
to recommend in all cases of chronic amoabic dysen- 
tery a preliminary course of ipecacuanha 30, 25, 
20, 15, 10, and 5 gr. on successive evenings with, of 
course, rest, and a milk and barley-water diet. There- 
after I generally prescribed a minute dose of castor oil, 
with or without opium, three times a day, regulating 
the dose according to effects. I might also prescribe 
a mixture of simaruba and cinnamon, or some in- 
testinal antiseptic, as salol or /3-naphthol. Some- 
times I continued the ipecacuanha in 5-gr. doses for 



540 CHRONIC DYSENTERY [CHAP. 

a month or longer, regarding it as a specific which 
should be persisted with as we would when giving 
quinine, iodide of potassium, or mercury. In view 
of its many manifest advantages, emetine intra- 
muscularly, where available, should now be substi- 
tuted in most cases for the crude ipecacuanha. Better 
than either is the recently introduced emetine bismuth 
iodide preparation. This should be given in freshly 
prepared pill form or in powder in a nightly dose of 
3 gr. and kept up for ten days or a fortnight. Like 
most preparations of ipecacuanha, after a few doses 
it is apt to induce diarrhoea. It is said to be the 
most efficient drug in getting rid of encysted amoebae 
and, therefore, in effecting a radical cure and in 
obviating the risk of spreading infection. Several 
courses of the drug may have to be prescribed before 
complete sterilization is effected. 

These measures failing, recourse may be had to 
some of the following : 

Nitrate-of-silver injections. The most effective 
treatment of certain types of chronic dysentery is 
undoubtedly that by injections of large quantities of 
nitrate-of-silver solution of a strength of J to 1 gr. 
to the ounce of distilled water. There is a right 
and there is a wrong way of using this splendid 
remedy. If employed in the wrong way, it is useless 
perhaps worse than useless. It must never be ap- 
plied when acute symptoms are present. These must 
first be got rid of by ipecacuanha, by emetine, by the 
sulphates, by calomel, by castor oil, and by rest and 
diet. The patient should be prepared for a week at 
least in this way. Then the bowel is to be cleared by 
a small dose of castor oil, followed by a large enema 
of 3 or 4 pints of warm water to which 2 or 3 
teaspoonfuls of carbonate of soda have been added. 
The whole of this injection having escaped, and 
when the bowel is quite empty, 2 to 3 pints of 
the nitrate-of-silver solution are thrown in by 
means of a- long tube passed slowly and carefully 
into the bowel as far as it will go without kinking. 
It is better to fill the bowel by gravitation, using 
a funnel and tube, rather than by a syringe. If it 



xxix] TREATMENT 541 

seems to be doing good, this injection may be used 
every few days and kept up for some time. Improve- 
ment in suitable cases generally sets in at once. The 
nitrate, or any other form of enema, must not be 
persevered with if it causes marked irritation or 
increase of symptoms. 

In the mild chronic dysenteries which are seen in 
Great Britain, and which originally had been con- 
tracted in the tropics, and also in the more acute re- 
lapses of tropical dysenteries, ipecacuanha or emetine 
should always be tried in the way recommended. 

Bayma reports favourably on the treatment of 
amoebic dysentery (both acute and chronic) and also 
of liver abscess by adrenalin 20 to 30 drops of the 
Parke-Davis solution, 1 in 1,000, every six hours. 
He sometimes combines this with emetine treatment. 

Other methods of treating chronic dysentery which 
succeed at times are the systematic washing out of 
the bowel daily with warm boric water, with linseed 
infusion, with milk (a very valuable remedy), with 
mangosteen rind decoctions, with weak solutions of 
alum, sulphate of copper, or tannin, with hypo- 
chloride-of-soda solution 1 per cent., with creosote and 
water or milk a teaspoonf ul to the quart ; systematic 
daily dosing with small quantities of castor oil, with 
or without opium 1 to 2 drachms of castor oil 
with 4 to 10 drops of laudanum three times a day; 
10 to 20 drops of turpentine three times a day ; small 
doses of hydrarg. c. creta ; the daily consumption of 
some preparation of fresh bael fruit ; a course of Carls- 
bad, of Kissingen, or of Vichy water; rectal douching 
as practised at Plombieres ; a diet of grapes only, of 
milk only, or of beef only ; cold-water compresses to 
the abdomen. 

Surgical treatment of chronic dysentery. When 
less heroic methods fail and the patient's condition 
is slowly but progressively deteriorating, right in- 
guinal colotomy or appendicostomy should be offered 
as affording a reasonable chance. Some time ago I 
had a colotomy performed in such circumstances 
with excellent results. If so serious an operation is 
declined, appendicostomy might be urged. This is 



542 DYSENTERY [CHAP 

easily performed and is not so risky or trouble- 
some as colotomy. A small oblique opening is made 
through the abdominal wall at the spot usually 
selected for appendicectomy. The opening should be 
large enough to admit two fingers, and the appendix 
is hooked out ; this is easy if no adhesions are 
present. The appendix is drawn through the wound 
until its base is in contact with the parietal peri- 
toneum, and it is then fixed in this position by a 
stitch of fine silk or catgut passing through the 
meso-appendix and the adjacent cut edge of the 
peritoneum. The appendix is opened immediately 
or in a few days' time. The caecum and colon 
may now be washed out with normal saline, with or 
without boric acid or other bland antiseptic, or with 
an astringent solution, through the appendix as 
frequently as desired. For this purpose a No. 8 
rubber catheter with a copper stilette is employed, 
and a rectal tube with an outflow tube. The patient 
should lie on his back ; should the csecum get dis- 
tended and the fluid fail to pass freely, turning him 
slightly to the left will restore the flow. 

Post-dysenteric constipation. After the subsid- 
ence of a dysentery, constipation and balling of the 
stools is by no means an uncommon event. This 
complication is best prevented, or met, by enemata of 
warm water to which a little salt a teaspoonful to 
the pint has been added, or, if the bowel is very 
irritable, of linseed tea or of thin rice-water. An 
occasional dose of castor oil, half to one teaspoonful, 
once or twice a week or of tener, and kept up so 
long as the motions are not quite healthy, is an 
excellent routine practice ; its action may be sup- 
plemented by a glycerin suppository. A course of 
Carlsbad waters or Carlsbad salts often gives excel- 
lent results. 

Food and clothing. In chronic dysentery much 
attention should be given to clothing and food. The 
former should be very warm. Dysenteries ought 
never to feel cold. Cold bathing is very dangerous 
for them ; so are alcoholic drinks of all sorts. Food 
should be simple in the extreme. Beef, mutton 



xxix] PROPHYLAXIS 543 

cheese, bread, coarse fruit or coarse vegetables, nuts, 
pickles, and such-like are, as a rule, not well borne. 
Fruit and fine well-cooked vegetables in modera- 
tion are necessary and often beneficial. In obstinate 
chronic dysentery it is often a good thing to change 
the diet from slops to solids, from a meagre to a more 
liberal one. The quantity of food is as important as 
the quality. Chronic dysenteries should eat no more 
than suffices to maintain their weight. Large meals 
must be avoided, and food should not be taken unless 
there is appetite. Monotony of food should be 
guarded against. . Wonderful results are sometimes 
got from a sea- voyage. 

Hepatitis. During the whole course of an attack 
of dysentery, and for months thereafter, the condition 
of the liver must receive the most careful attention. 
We may not be able to prevent abscess of this 
organ ; but if pain and swelling seem to suggest it 
as threatening we can try by means of full and re- 
peated doses of ipecacuanha, emetine, saline aperients, 
rest, low diet, fomentations, dry cupping, and similar 
measures to avert what, to say the least, is a very 
grave complication. 

Prophylaxis. The prophylaxis of dysentery 
consists principally in securing a pure water supply ; 
in avoiding unwholesome or contaminated food ; in 
searching out and eliminating and sterilizing dysen- 
tery carriers, especially those in whose stools encysted 
amoebae occur ; in temperance ; in clothing warmly 
and avoiding chill ; in correcting constipation and 
stopping diarrhoea; and, in public institutions such 
as gaols and asylums, in regarding dysentery as an 
infectious and readily communicable disease, in 
strictly isolating patients suffering from symptoms 
of colitis, or even looseness of the bowels, and in 
careful sanitation, directed towards the disposition 
of fsecal matter and the suppression of house-flies, 



CHAPTER XXX 
EPIDEMIC GANGRENOUS RECTITIS 

So far as known, this very fatal disease seems to be 
confined to the natives of the low-lying, hot, damp 
regions in the north of South America, and, perhaps, 
to the natives of Fiji and other islands of the South 
Pacific. In Guiana it is known as " caribi" or "Indian 
sickness," in Venezuela as " bicho "or " el becho." It 
is said to be very contagious, and appears to be a 
form of rapidly spreading phagedsena, which starts 
from the neighbourhood of the anus. Occasionally it 
may begin higher up in the colon. In the latter 
case it is called the " high " form ; in the former, the 
"low" or rectal form. Animals as well as men are 
attacked. 

I am indebted to Dr. Ackers, of Cura9oa, formerly 
of Venezuela, for the following information on the 
subject : " I have only seen cases of the disease in 
animals, principally fowls, though also in dogs and 
calves ; but I have been told by medical men, who 
themselves attended the cases, of its occurrence in 
children of the poorer classes. The disease commences 
by an itching in the anus, which produces an inclina- 
tion to frequent defaecation. This stage continues for 
a few days, when a severe inflammation of the mucous 
membrane of the rectum sets in, giving rise to 
symptoms of acute dysentery. There are frequent 
stools of a mucous, bloody substance, accompanied 
sometimes by bile or excrement ; at the same time 
there is much straining, with considerable elevation 
of temperature, anorexia, and great thirst. At this 
period, if the animal or child is not attended to, the 
above symptoms become more alarming ; a constant 
flow of a slimy, fetid, semi-liquid substance streaked 
with blood appears. Sometimes the discharge is of a 
bright-green colour, such as might be obtained by 
544 



GANGRENOUS RECTITIS 545 

crushing tender stalks of grass. When this occurs 
the patients refuse all food, but the thirst is still 
intense. The affected animal remains standing in one 
place, with drooping head, as if overcome by fever and 
weakness. For a day or so it continues like this, 
until at last, unwilling to move, eat, or even drink, it 
suddenly dies in convulsions. Sometimes, however, 
this stage is not fatal, but is followed by prolapsus of 
the rectum, which is in a very inflamed state and 
ulcerated ; rapidly gangrene sets in and is quickly 
fatal. The Venezuelan peasants state that this 
disease arises in children from chewing the green 
tender stalks of unripe maize, of which they are very 
fond on account of its sweetness. In children pro- 
lapsus of the rectum is very frequent ; in bad cases 
they may die, like the animals, in convulsions, though 
in children convulsions are not necessarily a fatal 
symptom. The treatment employed by the natives 
for animals consists in an enema of strong lemon- 
juice, mixed with a weak dilution of white rum and 
water (aguardiente), two or three times a day ; at the 
same time the anus is freely dusted with wood ashes, 
some of which are also introduced into the rectum. 
A purgative of oil is generally administered also. In 
some cases I have known this treatment prove very 
successful. On the other hand, when the disease is 
far advanced, or when the ulceration of the bowel 
appears at an early date, it seems to be of little or no 
avail. Another treatment employed, especially for 
children, consists in an enema of the juice obtained 
by crushing the stalks and leaves of Spigelia anthel- 
mintica (pasote). A decoction of the same herb is 
also given by the mouth three or four times a day. 
This decoction is very frequently administered by the 
peasants as an anthelmintic. In cases of children 
suffering from 'bicho,' one of the quarters of a 
lemon is roasted and introduced into the rectum as a 
suppository once or twice a day, and I have heard 
that it gives very satisfactory results." 



CHAPTER XXXI 
HILL DIARRHOEA 

Definition. A form of morning diarrhoea accom- 
panied by flatulent dyspepsia and the passage of 
copious, liquid, pale, frothy stools. It occurs princi- 
pally in Europeans on their visiting the hills after 
residing for some time in the hot lowlands of tropical 
countries. 

Geographical and seasonal distribution. 
Crombie, who gave an excellent account of this 
disease, pointed out that a similar affection may 
show itself in the highlands of Europe as well as in 
those of India. It is said also to occur in corre- 
sponding circumstances in South Africa and South 
America. There is no reason, therefore, to suppose 
that hill diarrhoea is special to India, although, 
owing to the large European population frequenting 
the hill sanitaria in that country, it has been particu- 
larly noticed there. An elevation of 6,000 feet or 
over, when combined with an atmosphere saturated 
with watery vapour, is particularly favourable to its 
development. In India it is found to begin and end 
with the rains, during which, in certain years and 
places, it is apt to assume almost epidemic characters. 
Thus, during the wet season of 1880, in Simla an 
epidemic of hill diarrhoea affected from 50 to 75 per 
cent, of the population, three-fourths of the cases 
happening within a week of each other. In some 
years hill diarrhoea is less prevalent than in others ; 
but at the proper season few of the various hill 
sanitaria of India are without examples. 

Etiology and pathology. It is difficult to 
say what may be the precise factors determining this 
disease. The low barometric pressure associated with 
great elevation above the sea-level may be a favouring 
circumstance. Damp seems to be indicated by the 
546 



SYMPTOMS 547 

fact that the disease occurs principally during the 
rains. Chill after exposure to the high temperature 
of the plains has possibly an important share. 
Manifestly there is a suspension of the functions of 
the liver and, considering the dyspepsia and looseness, 
most probably of those of the pancreas and of the 
other glandular structures subserving digestion. Hill 
diarrhoea is certainly something more than an intes- 
tinal catarrh. As Crombie pointed out, it is more 
in the nature of dyspepsia. There are no adequate 
grounds for connecting it with either the water or 
the food supply. The question of micro-organisms 
has, apparently, not been studied. 

Symptoms. Without very obvious cause the 
patient, who in other respects may be in good health, 
soon after arrival at a hill sanitarium becomes subject 
to a daily recurring diarrhoea, the looseness coming on 
regularly every morning some time between 3 and 
5 o'clock. The calls to stool are apt to be sudden 
and imperative. The motions passed are remark- 
ably copious ; very watery in some instances, pasty 
in others. They are pale, frothy, and like recently 
stirred whitewash, so devoid are they of biliary colour- 
ing matter. Their passage is attended with little or 
no pain, often with a sense of relief. From one to 
half a dozen, or more, such stools may be voided before 
11 a.m. After that hour, at all events in ordinary 
cases, the diarrhoea is in abeyance for the rest of the 
day, and the patient may then go about his duties or 
pleasures without fear of inconvenience. 

The distinctive features of this form of diarrhoea 
are, therefore, the regularity of its recurrence every 
morning and its cessation after a certain hour in the 
forenoon ; the absence of colour in the stools ; and 
the attendant flatulence. The abdomen is sometimes 
blown out like a drum, the patient being conscious of 
unpleasant borborygmi associated with a feeling as 
of some boiling or chemical operation proceeding in 
his inside. Occasionally cases are met with in which 
the stools are very pale although there is no diarrhoea. 

Under treatment, or spontaneously, or, according 
to Crombie, on acclimatization occurring, after some 



548 HILL DIARRHCEA 

days or weeks the diarrhoea may subside. In other 
instances it persists, in defiance of treatment, until 
the return of the patient to the warm plains, when 
it at once spontaneously subsides. Crombie in- 
stanced a case in which the patient was regularly 
attacked with hill diarrhoea whenever he visited 
Simla twelve occasions recovery invariably taking 
place on his return to the plains. If the looseness is 
both considerable and protracted, there necessarily 
ensue debility, wasting, and anaemia, and the disease 
may lapse into confirmed sprue an affection having, 
apparently, close affinities with hill diarrhoea. 

Treatment. The treatment recommended by 
Crombie, and endorsed by other medical men of 
experience in India, consists in a pure milk diet, rest, 
warm clothing, a teaspoonful of liquor hydrargyri 
perchloridi in water about fifteen minutes after food, 
and 12 gr. of pepsin, or a corresponding quantity 
of lactopeptin or ingluvin, two hours later. If, in 
spite of treatment, the disease persists, the patient 
must return to the low country. 






CHAPTER XXXII 
SPRUE (PSILOSIS) 

Definition. By the term " sprue " is understood a 
peculiar and very dangerous form of chronic catarrhal 
inflammation of the whole or part of the mucous 
membrane of the alimentary canal, generally asso- 
ciated with disturbance of the chologenic function of 
the liver and, probably, of the functions of the other 
glandular organs subserving digestion. Although a 
disease of warm climates it may develop for the 
first time in temperate climates ; only, however, in 
individuals who have previously resided in the tropics 
or sub-tropics. 

Sprue is characterized by irregularly alternating 
periods of exacerbation and of comparative quies- 
cence ; by an inflamed, bare, and eroded condition 
of the mucous membrane of the tongue and mouth ; 
by flatulent dyspepsia ; by pale, phenomenally copi- 
ous, and generally loose, frothy, fermenting stools ; by 
wasting and anaemia ; and by a tendency to relapse. 
It may occur as a primary disease, or it may super- 
vene on other affections of the bowels. It is very 
slow in its progress ; and, unless properly treated, 
tends to terminate in atrophy of the intestinal mucosa, 
which usually, sooner or later, proves fatal. 

Nomenclature. Sprue has been more or less 
recognized by writers on tropical medicine for many 
years. It has been called " tropical diarrhoea," 
" diarrhoea alba," " aphthae tropicae," " Ceylon sore 
mouth," " psilosis linguae " (Thin), besides a variety 
of other names. The term " sprue " is an adaptation 
from the Dutch word spruw in use in Java, where 
the disease is very common. 

Oeographical distribution. It is probable 
that sprue, although more common in certain warm 
549 



550 SPRUE [CHAP. 

countries than in others, is found throughout the 
greater part of the tropical and many parts of 
the sub- tropical world. It is especially common in 
South China, Manila, Cochin China, Java, the Straits 
Settlements, Ceylon, India, tropical Africa, the West 
Indies* (Hillary), and Porto Rico (Ashworth). Ap- 
parently it is most prevalent in those tropical coun- 
tries in which prolonged high temperature is combined 
with a moist atmosphere. It is common, however, 
in certain sub-tropical countries, as North China 
and even in Japan countries where, although the 
summer is hot and damp, the winter is dry and 
bracing. 

Etiology. Prolonged residence in the endemic 
area is, perhaps, the most potent predisposing influence; 
cases, however, do occur in which the disease shows 
itself after a residence of one or two years only. 
Exhausting diseases, particularly those involving the 
alimentary canal, as dysentery, hill diarrhoea, morning 
diarrhoea, haemorrhoids and fistula, are apt to terminate 
in sprue. Frequent childbearing, miscarriages, uterine 
haemorrhages, exhausting discharges, and prolonged lac- 
tation also predispose to the disease ; so may syphilis, 
courses of mercury or of iodide of potassium, bad 
food, bad water, anxiety, chills, and so forth in fact, 
any depressing influence, particularly if it is combined 
with intestinal irritation. Malaria does not seem to 
be specially responsible. At one time Strongyloides 
intestinalis (Anguillula intestinalis) , a parasite very 
common in the stools of cases of chronic intestinal 
flux, particularly in Cochin China, was put forward 
as the cause of the chronic entero-colitis (for the 
most part sprue) of that country. Subsequent investi- 
gations have disproved this. Like the anguillula, 
Amoeba coli or Bacillus dysenterice may be present in 
the stools in these cases ; but, similarly, they are 
in no way responsible for the disease. Neither has 
any bacterium, or fungus, or other micro-organism 
which can be regarded with any degree of certainty 

* Considering the frequency of pellagra in Barbados at the 
present day, it is not improbable that some of the cases of 
diarrhoea with sore mouth were examples of that disease. 



xxxii] SYMPTOMS 551 

as special to sprue been separated from the charac- 
teristic stools. 

Formerly sprue was supposed to be peculiar to 
the European in the tropics ; but Bahr has recently 
shown that it is by no means rare in the descendants 
of the early Dutch settlers in Ceylon, and in the 
native Cingalese and the immigrant Tamils. He has 
also brought forward evidence tending to show that 
it is an infective disease. 

In searching for the fundamental cause of this 
affection, the latency which the disease occasionally 
exhibits, and the fact that the first symptoms may 
not appear until months or even years have elapsed 
since the patient quitted the tropics, must be kept 
in view. 

Symptoms. e Variability. There is infinite vari- 
ety in the combination and in the severity of the 
various symptoms of sprue, as well as in the rate of 
progress of the disease. In some instances it may 
be almost a subacute process running its course in a 
year or two ; in others, again, it may drag on inter- 
mittingly for ten or fifteen years. Much depends in 
this respect on the circumstances, the character, the 
care, the treatment, the age, and the intelligence of 
the patient. 

General symptoms in a typical case. In an 
ordinary fully developed case the patient who is 
generally dark or muddy in complexion and much 
emaciated complains of three principal symptoms : 
soreness of the mouth, dyspeptic distension of the 
abdomen, looseness of the bowels ; the last being par- 
ticularly urgent during the early morning and part 
of the forenoon. The patient may also complain of 
feeling physically weak, of loss of memory, and of 
inability to take exercise or to apply his mind. His 
friends will probably volunteer the information that 
he is irritable and unreasonable. 

Mouth lesions. If the mouth is examined, the 
soreness will be found to depend on a variety of 
lesions of the mucous membrane, which, though pain- 
ful, seem to be of a very superficial character. These 
lesions vary considerably in intensity from day to 



552 SPEUE [CHAP. 

day. During an exacerbation the tongue looks red 
and angry ; superficial erosions, patches of congestion, 
and perhaps minute vesicles appear on its surface, 
particularly about the edges and tip. Sometimes, 
from the folding consequent on swelling of the mucous 
membrane, the sides of the organ have the appear- 
ance of being fissured. The filiform papilla cannot 
be made out, although here and there the fungiform 
papillae may stand up, pink and swollen. (Plate IX.) 
If the patient be made to turn up the tip of the tongue, 
very likely red patches of superficial erosion, some- 
times covered with an aphthous-looking pellicle, may 
be seen on either side of the frsenum. On everting 
the lips, similar patches and erosions are visible ; and 
if the cheek be separated from the teeth the same 
may be seen on the buccal mucous membrane. 
Occasionally the palate is similarly affected ; very 
often in this situation the mucous follicles are 
enlarged, shotty, and prominent. The gullet and 
uvula may also be congested and, in places, raw 
and sore. 

In consequence of the irritation caused by these 
superficial and exceedingly sensitive lesions, the mouth 
tends to fill with a watery saliva which may dribble 
from the corners. If the patient attempts to take 
any sapid food, strong wine, or anything except the 
very blandest diet, the pain and burning in the 
mouth are intolerable ; so much so that, although 
perhaps ravenously hungry, he shirks eating. Not 
infrequently swallowing is accompanied and fol- 
lowed by a feeling of soreness and burning under the 
sternum ; suggesting that the gullet, like the tongue, 
is also in an irritated, raw, and tender condition. 
During exacerbations of the disease the condition of 
the mouth becomes greatly aggravated. Although 
during the temporary and occasional improvements it 
becomes much less painful, even then salt, spices! 
strong wines, and all kinds of sapid foods sting un- 
pleasantly; and the tongue, particularly along its 
centre, is seen to be bare and polished as if brushed 
over with a coating of varnish. At all times the tongue 
is abnormally clean and devoid of fur ; during the ex- 







I 






ix 








I 



xxxn] SYMPTOMS 553 

acerbations it is red and swollen, but during the remis- 
sions, and when not inflamed, it is small, pointed, 
and, owing to the anaemic condition of the patient, 
it may be yellowish like a piece of cartilage. Appar- 
ently the tongue condition may be the sole symptom 
and may persist for years before the characteristic 
diarrhoea supervenes. 

Dyspepsia. Dyspepsia is usually much complained 
of, the feelings of weight, oppression, and gaseous 
distension after eating being sometimes excessive. 
Very likely the abdomen swells out like a drum, 
and unpleasant borborygmi roll through the bowel. 
Occasionally, though not often, there may be vomiting, 
sometimes coming on suddenly and not always ac- 
companied by feelings of nausea. 

Diarrhoea. The diarrhoea associated with sprue 
is of two kinds one chronic and habitual, the other 
more acute and, in the early stages, evanescent. 
The former is characterized by one or more daily dis- 
charges of a copious, pale, greyish, pasty, fermenting, 
acid, mawkish, evil-smelling material. The latter is 
of a watery character, also pale and fermenting, the 
dejecta containing undigested food and, usually, an 
abnormally large amount of oil and fatty acids. In 
these latter circumstances the diarrhoea usually brings 
with it considerable relief to the dyspeptic distension, 
at all events for a time. When the mouth is inflamed 
the diarrhcea is usually more active. The stools 
during periods of quiescence may be confined to one 
or two in the early morning or forenoon ; during the 
later part of the day the patient is not disturbed. 
The stools, however, even in this quiescent phase, are 
always extraordinarily copious, the excessive bulk 
being attributable in great measure to the afore- 
mentioned excess of fat and the innumerable micro- 
scopic gas bubbles ; patients remark their phenomenal 
abundance. They are passed almost, or altogether, 
without pain. Not infrequently during exacerba- 
tions there may be a tender, excoriated condition of 
the anus, and sometimes, in women, a similar con- 
dition of the vagina. 

Types, history, course, and termination. Proto- 
s* 



554 SPRUE [CHAP. 

pathic sprue. There is a striking uniformity in the 
history of most cases of sprue. On inquiry, we shall 
probably learn that the patient has been suffering 
for months, or perhaps years, from irregularity of 
the bowels. This, we may be told, began soon after 
arrival in the tropics as a bilious morning diarrhoea. 
For a long time this morning diarrho3a went on, 
without interfering in any way with the general 
health. Later the mouth, now and again, became 
tender, little blisters or excoriations appearing for 
a day or two at a time about the tip of the tongue 
or inside the lips. These sore spots would come and 
go. Perhaps, from time to time, exacerbations of the 
mouth symptoms would be associated with a little 
increase of diarrho3a. Gradually the stools lost their 
bilious character and became pale and frothy ; dyspep- 
tic symptoms, particularly distension after meals, now 
appeared. As time went on, these symptoms would 
recur more frequently and in a more pronounced 
form, following, almost inevitably, any little impru- 
dence as regards food or exposure. The general 
condition now began to deteriorate ; emaciation, 
languor, lassitude, and inability to get through the 
day's work satisfactorily becoming more pronounced 
each summer until, finally, a condition of permanent 
invalidism was established. Should the disease con- 
tinue to progress, the emaciation advances slowly but 
surely. Diarrhoea may be almost constant, and now 
no longer confined to the morning hours ; the com- 
plexion becomes dark, sometimes very dark the 
appetite, sometimes in abeyance, is more frequently 
ravenous, unusual indulgence in food being followed 
by increased discomfort, temporarily relieved by smart 
diarrhoea. At length the patient is confined to the 
house, perhaps to bed. The feet become cedematous, 
and the integuments hang like an ill-fitting garment, 
the details of the bony anatomy showing distinctly 
through the dry, scurfy, earthy skin. Finally, the 
patient dies in a semi-choleraic attack ; or from 
inanition; or from some intercurrent disease. Such 
is the history of an ordinary, mismanaged case of 
sprue. 



xxxii] SYMPTOMS 555 

Sprue secondary to dysentery. When the disease 
has supervened on dysentery, we learn that the 
motions characteristic of the original dysenteric 
attack had gradually changed in character ; from 
being scanty, mucoid, bloody, and accompanied with 
pain and tenesmus, they became diarrhoeic, pale, 
frothy, their discharge being followed by a feeling of 
relief rather than of pain. The mouth at the same 
time became sore, exhibiting the characters already 
described. Gradually a condition of confirmed sprue 
was established, which ultimately, unless properly 
treated, will almost certainly prove fatal. 

Sprue secondary to acute enter o-colitis. Another 
type of case commences as an acute entero-colitis 
with sudden and profuse colicky diarrhoea, vomiting 
perhaps, and a certain amount of fever. The acute 
symptoms do not subside completely, but gradually 
have the typical symptoms of sprue grafted on to 
those of an acute intestinal catarrh. 

Incomplete sprue, (a) Gastric cases. Occasion- 
ally we meet with cases of confirmed sprue in 
which, at first, the morbid process, judging from the 
existing clinical symptoms and subsequent history, is 
confined to a limited part of the alimentary canal. 
Thus we sometimes get sprue without diarrhoea, 
the principal symptoms being sore mouth, dyspep- 
tic distension, pale copious but solid stools, and 
wasting. 

(b) Intestinal cases. On the other hand, we may 
get cases in which the mouth is not eroded, and in 
which there is little or no distension or dyspepsia, 
but in which the stools are liquid, copious, pale, and 
frothy. Sometimes a patient who may have suffered 
at an earlier period or on a former occasion from 
the first type of the disease, later acquires the 
diarrhceic form ; and vice versa. 

(c) Sprue without diarrhoea. It sometimes hap- 
pens that under treatment the sore mouth, the 
dyspepsia, and the diarrhoea completely subside ; 
nevertheless the wasting continues, the stools re- 
maining phenomenally copious so much so that the 
patient may declare that more is passed than has 



556 SPKUE [CHAP. 

been eaten. In this case wasting is progressive, and 
the patient gradually dies of inanition. 

Intestinal atrophy consequent on sprue. In cer- 
tain instances, under treatment the symptoms proper 
to sprue subside ; but the patient's digestive and 
assimilative faculties are permanently impaired. 
Slight irregularities either in the quality or the 
amount of food, chill, fatigue, depressing emotions, 
and other trifling causes suffice to bring on dyspepsia 
accompanied by flatulence and diarrhosa. These cases 
may linger for years. Usually they improve during 
the summer in England, getting worse during the 
winter and spring, or during cold, damp weather. 
Ultimately they die from general atrophy, diarrhosa, 
or some intercurrent disease. 

Morbid anatomy. Post mortem the tissues 
in sprue are abnormally dry ; fat is almost com- 
pletely absent; the muscles and the thoracic and 
abdominal viscera are anaemic and wasted. With 
these exceptions and certain important changes in 
the alimentary tract, so far as known there are no 
special lesions which are invariably associated with 
this disease. According to Bertrand and Fontan, 
occasionally certain changes are present in the pan- 
creas namely, fatty or granular degeneration of the 
cells, with softening of isolated acini and slight 
inflammatory infiltration of the connective tissue. 
These, however, are not more constant than are 
certain other and similar changes occasionally found 
in the liver and kidneys. Sections of the tongue 
show desquamation of the epithelium, especially from 
the surface of the fungiform papillae ; an invasion of 
the epithelial cells by yeast fungi has been shown by 
Kohlbriigge to take place and is possibly a terminal 
infection. 

Lesions of the alimentary tract. The principal 
and characteristic lesions are found in the alimentary 
tract. The bowel is thinned to such an extent as to 
be almost diaphanous. The serous coat is generally 
healthy, the muscular coat atrophied. The sub- 
mucosa in places has undergone hypertrophic fibrous 
changes ; and the mucous membrane from mouth to 



XXXII] 



MORBID ANATOMY 



557 



anus, either in patches or universally, is superficially 
eroded and interstitially atrophied. The internal sur- 
face of the bowel is coated with a thick layer of dirty 
grey, tenacious mucus containing numerous yeast 



* .C^ky "" W* <m ^'<$%K$: 
^ <. >',%4vi " / inl':'1wv^ 

'VptvZ5^S 







Fig. 83. Transverse section of ileum in case of sprue, showing partial loss 
of columnar epithelium (probably a post-mortem change), shrinkage 
of villi, round-cell infiltration, tibrosis of submucosa, and dilatation 
of nutrient vessels of submucosa. (Bahr. ) 

cells and branching mycelium (Bahr), which conceals 
patches of congestion, of erosion, or even of ulcera- 
tion, besides such evidences of similar antecedent 
disease as pigmented areas and thin-scarred, cicatricial 
patches. The villi and glands are eroded and in many 
places completely destroyed. ' Here and there minute 



558 SPRUE [CHAP. 

spherical indurations, about the size of a pin's head 
and surrounded by a dark pigmented or congested 
areola, can be felt in the mucous membrane. On 
cutting into these, they are found to be minute cyst- 
like dilatations of the follicles filled with a gummy, 
muco-purulent material. Sections of the diseased 
bowel (Fig. 83) show under the microscope corre- 
sponding changes, such as varying degrees of erosion 
or ulceration of the surface of the mucous membrane ; 
degeneration of villi, glands, and ; follicles ; the small 
mucous cysts referred to ; sometimes small abscesses ; 
and, also, infiltration by leucocytes of the basement 
membrane and submucous layer ; and, in the latter, 
fibro-cirrhotic changes. The mesenteric glands are 
generally large and pigmented, perhaps fibrotic. The 
erosion lesions are usually most marked towards the 
end of the ileum and in the colon ; but they may be 
present in greater or lesser degree universally, or in 
patches throughout the entire alimentary tract from 
mouth to anus. 

Pathology. In attempting an explanation of 
the phenomena of sprue, two features of the disease 
have to be considered the catarrhal condition of the 
alimentary canal, and the absence of the normal 
colouring matter of the faeces. Possibly one of these 
is the consequence of the other ; possibly the two 
conditions are concurrent but independent conse- 
quences of the same cause. What that cause may be 
is quite unknown. Whether the first pathological step 
originates in physiological exhaustion of the digestive 
functions, brought about by tropical conditions; or 
whether the disease depends upon a specific organism; 
or whether there is a combination of these, has still 
to be settled. In view of the occurrence of morning 
diarrhoea of dark bilious stools as a frequent first 
step in the development of sprue, hyperactivity of 
the liver might be assumed to be a first step in the 
development of the disease, an activity which in time 
ends in exhaustion of the chologenic functions of the 
gland. It might be further suggested that con- 
currently with this hepatic disturbance there is a 
similar initial hyperactivity of all the other glands 






xxxn] PATHOLOGY DIAGNOSIS 559 

appertaining to digestion, a hyperactivity which 
also ends in a corresponding exhaustion. Chemical 
changes in the ingested food would then follow on 
the establishment of these apeptic conditions, and 
ultimately, from the formation of acrid chemical 
bodies, lead to the chronic catarrhal changes found 
post mortem. 

Analyses of the stools in sprue by Wynter Blyth, 
Hunter, v. der Scheer, Harley, and others resulted in 
ascertaining the presence of the ordinary elements of 
bile, notwithstanding their apparent absence so far 
as lack of colour would indicate. Bile is secreted, 
but the colouring matter, bilirubin, is not formed, 
or is changed in the intestine into a colourless 
substance, leuco-urobilin (Nencki). The excess of 
fat in the stools would indicate pancreatic disease or 
destruction of the lacteal capillaries. 

Of course, micro-organisms, and especially yeast 
fungi, abound in the fermenting stools ; but hitherto 
no bacterium or protozoon which could be regarded 
as specific has been found in association with the 
disease. 

Personally, I incline to regard sprue as the 
result of a specific infection falling upon structures 
subserving digestion, exhausted from over-stimu- 
lation by certain meteorological conditions. The 
remarkable effect of physiological rest, as supplied 
by "the milk treatment," in curing sprue, the 
relative rarity of the disease in the natives of the 
endemic area, the occasional latency of the disease, 
and the tendency to relapse seem to support this 
hypothesis. 

Diagnosis. The condition of the tongue, the 
character of the stools, and the history are sufficiently 
distinctive, one would suppose, to render diagnosis 
an easy matter. Nevertheless, I have known of 
cases in which the disease has been diagnosed and 
treated as syphilis, the condition of the mouth being 
attributed to this disease, the character of the stools 
and other symptoms being ignored. Care mur.t be 
exercised in interpreting the significance of the small 
area of liver dullness usually found in well -marked 



560 SPRUE [CHAP. 

cases of sprue. This is not due to cirrhosis of the 
liver, but to the wasting this organ undergoes in 
common with the rest of the soft tissues of the entire 
body. The absence of skin lesions and mental 
symptoms differentiates sprue from pellagra. 

Prognosis is good for recent cases, provided 
proper treatment is carried out. It is bad for 
patients over 50, for long-standing cases, for careless 
and injudicious patients, and for those who cannot 
or will not take a purely milk diet. 

Treatment. Importance of early and thorough 
treatment. Tf treatment be undertaken sufficiently 
early in sprue, and be thoroughly and intelligently 
carried out, it is generally marvellously successful. 
Should, however, it be undertaken at too late a 
period, when the glands and the absorbing surface 
of the alimentary canal have been hopelessly de- 
stroyed, do what we will the case is sure to end 
fatally. When prescribing treatment, therefore, the 
first thing for the physician to do is to get his 
patient thoroughly convinced of the deadly nature 
of his complaint; for, unless he receives the hearty 
and complete co-operation of his patient, the phy- 
sician must not expect to cure a well-established 
case. To be successful, treatment must be thorough, 
sustained, and prolonged. All predisposing causes, 
as uterine or other discharges, syphilis, scurvy, and 
the like, must of course be dealt with and, so far as 
possible, removed. 

The milk cure. By far the most successful 
treatment is what is known as the " milk cure." 
In carrying this out it is well to commence with a 
dose of some aperient castor oil or pulvis rhei com- 
positus. Pending the action of the drug, all food, 
including milk, should be withheld. The patient 
should be sent to bed in order to economize strength 
and maintain an equable warm temperature of the 
skin. He should also be directed to clothe warmly, 
to encircle the abdomen with a broad flannel binder, 
to cover his arms and shoulders with a warm jacket, 
and to live in a large, sunny, warmToom. When the 
purgative has acted the milk is begun. At first 60 oz. 






xxxii] TREATMENT 561 

at most are allowed in the twenty-four hours, small 
quantities being given every hour or every two hours. 
When the patient is very weak the feeding must 
be continued during the night. The milk should not 
be drunk, but sipped with a teaspoon, or taken through 
a straw or fine glass tube, or from a child's feeding- 
bottle. As a rule, on this regimen, in the course of 
two or three days, the patient's condition is very 
much improved. The stools have increased in con- 
sistency are solid perhaps, the distension of the 
abdomen has subsided, dyspeptic symptoms have 
vanished, and the mouth is much less tender and 
less inflamed. The quantity of milk should now be 
increased at the rate of half a pint a day or every 
second day, until 100 oz., or thereabouts, are taken in 
the twenty-four hours. It is well to keep at this 
quantity for ten days at least, when, everything 
going well, a gradual increase to 6 or 7 pints may 
be sanctioned. Up to this point the patient should 
keep in bed ; but when he has reached this quantity 
he may get up and, if he feels strong enough and 
the weather is mild, go out of doors. For six 
weeks, dating from the time the stools become solid 
and the mouth free from irritation, no other food or 
drink whatever should be permitted. A raw egg, 
if it is found to agree, may now be added to the 
milk ; later, some artificial malted food ; next, small 
quantities of well-boiled arrowroot, rusks, pulled 
bread, thin bread (stale) and butter, or other di- 
gestible form of starchy food ; later still, chicken 
broth, a little fruit ; and, by and by, fish and chicken 
may be gradually introduced. 

Importance of prompt treatment of threatened 
relapses. Should, however, the slightest sign of 
dyspepsia or flatulence, especially of diarrhoea, or of 
sore mouth show itself, then the extra food must 
be discontinued immediately, a dose of compound 
rhubarb powder or castor oil administered, and the 
patient be sent back to bed and placed once more at 
absolute rest and on a pure milk diet. In convalescents, 
no matter how long the acute symptoms have been in 
abeyance, this prompt recognition and treatment of 



562 SPKUE [CHAP. 

threatened relapse should be rigorously observed. 
This is a rule of the utmost value and importance. 
Procrastination in treatment, under these conditions, 
is exceedingly dangerous. Promptitude in recognizing 
and treating relapse not only saves time, but it may 
avert hopeless intestinal atrophy. 

Symptoms persisting. In commencing this treat- 
ment, if the patient after two or three days be 
found unable to digest and assimilate so much as 
3 pints of milk in the twenty-four hours, the daily 
allowance must be reduced by half a pint a day 
until 30 oz. or thereabouts only are taken. If now 
the motions become solid, the quantity of milk must 
be gradually increased by 5 or 10 oz. a day, so that in 
the course of a few weeks the full allowance 6 or 7 
pints is consumed. 

How to meet inadequate assimilation. It some- 
times happens that the quantity of [milk can be 
raised to 70 or 80 oz. per diem, but no higher,, 
further increase bringing on sore mouth, distension, 
and diarrhoea. In some of these cases the difficulty 
appears to depend not so much on digestion as on 
inability to absorb a large quantity of fluid. Occa- 
sionally, in such cases, one may succeed in getting 
the necessary amount of nutriment introduced by 
thickening the milk with condensed milk ; or by 
slowly evaporating fresh cow's milk so as to reduce 
its bulk without diminishing the solids (Thin). The 
evaporation is best done in a vessel like a glue-pot, 
in which the milk is not boiled, but is surrounded 
by a jacket of boiling water; the milk during the 
process must be constantly stirred to prevent the 
formation of a scum. Or the milk diet may be 
supplemented by an adequate allowance of raw or 
underdone meat. 

Other forms of giving milk. Digestion is some- 
times aided by peptonizing the milk ; or by mixing it 
with lime-water or a little salt ; or by aerating it in 
a soda-water siphon. Koumiss sometimes agrees for 
a time when ordinary milk fails, and, if necessary, 
should be tried. Similarly, white wine whey is 
occasionally digested when milk is not ; it is often 



xxxn] TREATMENT 563 

of great service, especially when an alcoholic stimu- 
lant is indicated. 

Fruit treatment. The value of fruit in the treat- 
ment of sprue and other forms of intestinal disease 
has long been recognized by a limited number of 
practitioners, particularly abroad. It is only lately 
that it has obtained any hold on medical opinion in 
England. I have long been in the habit of pre- 
scribing bananas and apples, tentatively of course, in 
these cases, and often with marked success* Of late 
repeated trials of the strawberry in sprue have con- 
firmed me in my belief in the value of the fruit 
treatment, and in the strawberry treatment in par- 
ticular. The plan I follow is to give one or two 
strawberries with each feed of milk, and, if found to 
agree, to increase the number gradually until 2 to 
3 Ib. are taken daily. Preserved fruits, particularly 
peaches and pears, make suitable substitutes if straw- 
berries or bananas are not obtainable. The bael fruit 
or Bengal quince (jEgle marmelos), introduced by 
Fayrer in the treatment of this disease, seems to 
exert a very beneficial effect in the countries (Ceylon 
and India) where it can be procured in a fresh state. 
Extracts, such as those sold in this country, appear to 
be inert. The ripe fruit should be scraped out of the 
hard exterior shell, and eaten raw with sugar and 
cream. Two or three fruits, depending on their size, 
may be given every day. 

Treatment with meat juice and underdone meat. 
Occasionally symptoms persist or become aggravated 
under this system of treatment, and one is forced 
to conclude that milk does not suit the patient. 
In such cases raw-meat juice will often prove an 
efficient substitute. The juice of 4 or 5 Ib. of fresh 
lean meat, and a little water to allay thirst, may 
be taken in small quantities at short intervals 
daily. After a time, when the stools are reduced in 
number and quantity, although perhaps not quite 
solid, scraped meat, or very much underdone meat, 
and by and by a little charred toast, a plain rusk 
or biscuit, and so forth, may be gradually added to 
the diet. 



564 SPRUE [CHAP. 

Meat and warm water diet. Not infrequently, 
after the stools have become solid under a care- 
fully regulated pure milk diet, it is found that 
any attempt to return to ordinary food, or to take 
anything beyond the most simple farinaceous dishes, 
is quickly followed by a recurrence of diarrhrea and 
the familiar flatulent dyspepsia. Such cases are 
sometimes successfully treated by a complete aban- 
donment of milk, fruit, and farinaceous stuffs for a 
time, and placing the patient on what is known as 
the " Salisbury cure." This is a diet consisting only 
of meat and warm water. Commencing with smaller 
quantities, in time the allowance of meat is gradually 
raised to about 3 Ib. per diem, taken at equidistant 
intervals in three or four meals. The meat must 
be of good quality, free from fat, coarse fibre, and 
gristle ; it may be prepared as mince, or in the form 
of steak or chop, not too much cooked. Warm 
water, amounting in all to 4 pints in the twenty- 
four hours, is drunk before going to bed and on rising 
in the morning, and also about two hours before meals 
never at meals. This course must be persisted in 
for six weeks, when ordinary food will be gradually 
attempted again. I have sometimes found it useful 
in cases of relapsing sprue to make the patient fast 
systematically one day a week, feeding him on that 
day with milk only. Sometimes, in cases of active 
sprue, I have found benefit by intermitting the pure 
milk diet for a day or two every week, and on these 
days feeding the patient on minced meat and hot 
water only. 

Nutrient enemata or suppositories. In all grave 
cases of sprue nutrient enemata or suppositories 
should be steadily administered every four or six 
hours. If tolerated they are most valuable aids to 
nutrition. It is well, when using them, to wash out 
the rectum once a day with cold water. 

These methods of treatment followed by a care- 
fully selected and increasing mixed diet, combined 
with warmth and rest are in my experience the most 
successful methods of treating sprue ; should they 
fail, the chances of recovery are poor indeed. Never- 



xxxii] TREATMENT 565 

theless, I have seen cases in which, after failure of 
the most carefully carried- out milk or meat diets, 
a mixed diet proved successful for a time. In such 
mixed diets, in fact in all diets in sprue, restriction in 
the amount is as important, perhaps, as the quality 
of the food consumed. Food should never be given 
unless the patient is hungry. It is a great mistake to 
try to make these patients fat rapidly, or to stimulate 
the desire for food by encouraging active exercise. 
The bowel is not in a condition to deal with large 
meals. 

When to send the patient to Europe. When 
sprue develops in the tropics, if feasible the patient 
should be sent to Europe as soon as possible. It 
is a mistake, however, to ship an invalid with his 
disease active on him, or if his end is manifestly not 
very far off. Diarrhoea should not be active when 
the patient is put on board ship. In every case pro- 
vision, such as a cow or an abundant supply of 
sterilized milk, should be made for carrying on 
treatment during the voyage. 

The clothing and general management. Sprue 
patients returning to Europe ought to be especially 
careful in their clothing, and they ought to get out 
their warm clothes before the ship leaves the tropics. 
If their return is during the winter, they should 
arrange to remain in the south of Europe till at 
least late spring. Next to an unsuitable dietary, per- 
haps cold is the most prejudicial influence to which 
a sprue case can be exposed. A sprue patient ought 
never to feel cold ; he ought always to wear thick 
flannels, thick stockings, and, when up and about, 
thick boots. In winter a chamois-leather waistcoat, 
provided with sleeves, is of great service. His 
rooms ought to be warm. He ought to eat very 
sparingly. He ought never to be fatigued ; he 
ought to go to bed early and rise late; in fact, 
he ought to do everything in his power to avoid 
irritating the bowel, to guard against chill, physio- 
logical depression, and the necessity for copious 
eating. 

During the summer England is suitable enough 



566 SPKUE [CHAP. 

as a residence; but during the cold winter and spring 
months some milder, drier, and more sunny climate 
must be sought out. 

Drugs in sprue. Experience soon teaches one 
to distrust medicines in sprue. Occasionally a gentle 
aperient or, if diarrhoea is watery and excessive, a few 
drops of laudanum are of service ; but active drugging 
of all sorts is, as a rule, in the highest degree pre- 
judicial. If the mouth is very painful, cocaine 5 gr. 
to the ounce brushed on before eating will deaden 
sensibility and, for a time at all events, relieve 
suffering. Flatulence and diarrhoea of acid stools 
are best relieved by full doses of sodium bicarbonate. 
Constipation must be carefully avoided, and a simple 
enema used if necessary. 

I think it right to state that two methods of drug 
treatment seem, in some cases, to have been followed 
by good results. One, advocated by Dr. Begg, late 
of Hankow, consists " in the administration of re- 
peated doses of yellow santonin. He recommends one 
or two doses of castor oil to commence with, and, 
thereafter, 5 gr. of santonin in a teaspoonful of olive 
oil once or twice a day for a week, diet being at 
the same time attended to. The other method has 
gained for an irregular practitioner in Shanghai some 
reputation. It consists in the repeated administration 
of purgatives, alternately with or before the exhibi- 
tion of large quantities two teaspoonfuls at a time 
of some form of carbonate of lime, believed to be 
powdered cuttlefish bone or powdered crabs' eyes. I 
have tried the santonin treatment without benefit to 
patients. I have also used cuttlefish bone ; in one 
case with the result of permanently stopping the 
diarrhoea but not of arresting the progress of the 
disease. In this case, although diarrhoea was most 
effectively checked, yet massive solid stools continued 
to pass. After a few weeks the patient died from 
asthenia, notwithstanding a liberal diet, which appar- 
ently was digested but not absorbed. 

Of late I have been in the habit of using intra- 
muscular injections of very minute doses of arseniate 
of iron. In some instances the benefit from these 



xxxn] TREATMENT 567 

injections has been prompt and marked. I would 
recommend their employment in every case of sprue 
in which anaemia is pronounced. 

The sprue patient, if possible, ought not to return 
to the tropics. If compelled by circumstances to do 
so, he must exercise the utmost care with regard to 
his health, and avoid exposure, fatigue, cold bath, 
alcohol, and all excesses ; take a minimum of, or avoid 
altogether, red meat ; purge gently, and go on. absolute 
milk diet on the slightest sign of relapse. 



CHAPTER XXXIII 
TROPICAL LIVER 

THE subject of liver disease is everywhere a difficult 
and complicated one. It is especially difficult in 
tropical countries ; for not only is the resident there 
liable to all the forms found in temperate climates, 
but he is exposed, in addition, to various potent 
predisposing and exciting causes of liver disease not 
present, or only present in a very mild degree, in 
more temperate latitudes. These additional causes 
of liver disease, inseparable from the tropics, are 
heat, malaria, and, especially, amoebic dysentery. To 
these, too often, have to be added injudicious personal 
habits, a tendency to over-full and over-rich feeding, 
to over-stimulation by alcohol, and deficiency of mus- 
cular exercise. 

The young European who finds himself in the 
tropics for the first time is surrounded very often by 
luxuries in the shape of food, wine, carriages, servants 
luxuries to which he had not been accustomed perhaps 
in his home. At first the change, the excitement of 
novelty, and the high temperature act as stimulants 
to appetite, and the excessive loss of fluid by cutaneous 
transpiration creates a powerful thirst. Little won- 
der, therefore, that in such circumstances the youth, 
having the appetite and the opportunity of gratifying 
it, is apt to indulge in food and drink beyond safe 
physiological limits. He is made lazy by the heat ; 
he cannot exercise during the day, and when evening 
comes he prefers lounging on the veranda or hanging 
about the club bar to walking or riding or games. 
Very likely he sits up late at night, drinking and 
smoking, so that in the morning he is too sleepy to 
ride out or take any other form of exercise. And 
so it comes about, what with a surcharge of aliment 
and alcohol, and the diminished activity of lung 
568 



HEPATIC HYPER^MIA 569 

metabolism and excretion incident to high tempera- 
ture and muscular inactivity, that a very large and 
unusual amount of physiological work is thrown on 
the liver. With this large amount of work there 
is a corresponding hypersemia. This may be con- 
sidered the first stage of tropical liver hypersemia 
from functional activity; up to this point it is a 
purely physiological condition. 

Pushed a step farther, this physiological hyper- 
aemia passes into congestion with blood stasis, 
and a consequent diminution of functional activity. 
Hypersemia of a physiological character will be evi- 
denced by increase of functional activity, and there 
will be a copious flow of bile, sometimes causing 
diarrhoea of a bilious character, particularly morning 
diarrhoea. But when the limits of physiological hyper- 
semia are passed, and congestion of a pathological 
character sets in, the consequent arrest of function 
will be evidenced by pale stools, perhaps diarrhoea of 
a pale, watery, frothy, fermenting character in the 
last case the diarrhoea doubtless depending, in part 
at least, on fermentative processes set up in the con- 
tents of an alimentary canal no longer kept relatively 
aseptic by an adequate supply of healthy bile. Other 
symptoms of this condition are headache ; furred 
tongue ; scanty, high-coloured, loaded urine ; a feeling 
of weight or fullness, or even of pain, in the region of 
the liver, and probably enlargement of the percussion 
area and other physical signs of enlargement of that 
organ. One step farther, and such a condition may 
pass into actual hepatitis attended with fever, smart 
pain in the liver, tenderness on percussion, and still 
more marked increase of the hepatic area. 

A functionally very active hypersemic organ is prone 
to inflammation, even on slight cause. In the case of 
the hypersemic liver a common cause of inflammation 
is chill, such as may arise from a cold bath, a wetting, 
or from lying uncovered on a warm night in a current 
of air. The experienced resident knows this very 
well, and is at great pains to guard against such an 
occurrence. He very likely wears what is known as 
a cholera belt ; he sleeps, even on the warmest night, 



570 TROPICAL LIVER [CHAP. 

in flannel pyjamas, and with a thin blanket drawn 
over his abdomen ; during the day he wears a woollen 
undervest and very likely serge or thin tweed clothes. 
He does not sit down in damp clothes, and he has 
a great respect for a shower of rain. Besides chill, 
there are other causes which may convert the hyper- 
seniia into congestion or inflammation; a blow may 
operate in the same way, so may a surfeit of eating 
or drinking, so may exposure to the sun, so may an 
attack of malarial fever or of dysentery. 

Treatment. Nature sometimes effects a cure in 
these cases of hepatic congestion by establishing a 
smart diarrhoea. In the treatment of such cases we 
cannot do better than to imitate Nature, and even 
to supplement her efforts. A few doses of the 
sulphates, in the shape of some kind of bitter water 
or of Carlsbad salts, generally give prompt relief. 
But if the subject of such attacks does not profit by 
experience and mend his ways, very likely his liver, 
in time, will become chronically hyperaemic and ex- 
tremely liable to intercurrent attacks of congestion 
of a character more or less acute. The subjects of 
this type of " liver " ought to be most careful in their 
habits. They must not lie abed too long ; they must 
not take cold baths ; they must not take cold drinks, 
nor expose themselves to cold in any form ; they must 
clothe warmly; and they must eschew alcohol in 
every shape. Animal food they must partake of but 
sparingly; and they should give the preference to 
fowl and fish over beef and mutton. Fruit and 
farinaceous food may be more freely partaken of, but 
over-eating in every form must be avoided. Exercise 
should be taken at least twice a day ; and, at least 
once in twenty-four hours, the exercise should be of 
such a character as to provoke perspiration. A gallop 
on horseback, a smart game of tennis or rackets, are 
excellent hepatic stimulants. Occasionally, once a 
week or not so often, particularly when a sense of 
fullness or aching in the right side seems to indicate 
that all is not right with the liver, a dose of Carls- 
bad salts or bitter water, preceded perhaps by a few 
grains of calomel, may avert more serious trouble. 



xxxm] TREATMENT 571 

When hypersernia becomes chronic, when the 
patient is continually suffering with "liver," he 
should leave the tropics for a time. Nothing re- 
lieves these cases of chronic congestion so quickly or 
so effectively as a visit to Carlsbad or to Harrogate, 
and a thorough course of the waters there and of 
the dietetic restrictions imposed in the Carlsbad cure. 
This should be followed up by country life in England 
and the active pursuit of country sports ; the usual 
precautions in the shape of warm clothing, avoidance 
of cold baths, chills, alcohol, and high living being 
scrupulously observed and a weekly saline purge 
taken. 

A serviceable imitation of the natural Carlsbad 
water may be made by dissolving 53 gr. of the 
powdered salt in a pint of boiling water.* This 
may be divided into three equal portions, which are 
to be sipped as hot us possible, at intervals of twenty 
minutes, on an empty stomach, the first thing in the 
morning. While taking the solution, gentle exercise, 
as moving about the room, should be indulged in. 
Breakfast must not be taken till an hour after the 
last dose. If the bowels are not gently acted on, 
an increased quantity of the salts should be taken. 
During the course, which should be persevered in 
for three weeks, the diet must be carefully regu- 
lated ; butter, fat, nuts, fruits, pastry, preserves, tinned 
foods, cheese, salads, wines, spirits, and beer are to 
be avoided. Too much meat must not be taken ; a 
small meat meal once a day must suffice. The quan- 
tity of food, too, should be restricted, and clothing, 
exercise, and bathing be carefully attended to. Much 
excellent advice on the subject of the Carlsbad treat- 
ment will be found in Surgeon-Major Young's book, 
" The Carlsbad Treatment for Tropical Ailments." 

During severe attacks of acute congestion, or of 
severe hepatitis attended with fever and much local 
distress, the patient must be kept in bed and placed 
on a very low diet of thin broths, barley-water or 
rice-water, or milk and water. He should be purged 

* A good substitute for Carlsbad salts consists of sod. sulph. 
2 parts, sod. bicarb. 1 part, sod. chloride 1 part. 



572 TROPICAL LIVER 

freely and often with salines. A large hot poultice, 
two feet or more in length by one foot in breadth, 
should be laid over the region of the liver ; such a 
poultice to be effective should pass from the centre of 
the back to well over the epigastrium. Dry cupping 
sometimes gives marked relief. Muriate of ammonia 
has a certain reputation in these cases ; it should be 
prescribed in 20-gr. doses every six or eight hours. 
I have often used it, but I cannot vouch for its 
virtues; it does 110 harm. 

When such a hepatitis is associated with dysen- 
tery, perhaps latent or antecedent, should it resist 
these milder measures hypodermic injections of 
emetine, as in amoebic dysentery, or 30 to 60 gr. of 
ipecacuanha often give marked relief, and should be 
repeated every twelve or twenty-four hours for two 
or three times. When the hepatitis is associated with 
malarial fever, full doses of quinine, in addition to 
the purging and the other measures already men- 
tioned, are indicated. 

Whether hepatitis, unless associated with dysen- 
tery, ever passes on to suppuration is a moot point. 
Some say that it may ; others resolutely deny that 
there is such a thing as "tropical abscess" unasso- 
ciated with dysentery. This subject will be discussed 
in the following chapter. Malarial hepatitis has 
already been considered (p. 97). 



CHAPTER XXXIV 
ABSCESS OF THE LIVER 

Definition. A form of suppuration in the liver, 
occurring especially in warm climates, principally in 
male Europeans and in association with amoebic 
dysentery. 

Qeographical distribution. Abscess of the 
liver, of the type known as tropical abscess, is, for 
the most part, a disease of warm climates. Usually 
a sequel, or, it may be, a concomitant of amoebic 
dysentery, it is rare or altogether absent in countries 
where this type of dysentery is also rare or absent. 
Its geographical distribution, therefore, is in the main 
regulated by that of amoebic dysentery. It has to be 
noted, however, that liver abscess is not a sequel or 
concomitant of the dysentery of all countries and at 
all times. Thus it is rare as an indigenous disease 
in temperate climates, even in those temperate 
climates in which dysentery is at times common 
enough. Again, in tropical climates the dysentery 
and liver abscess curves do not everywhere and at 
all times maintain a constant and definite relation 
to each other ; for, even in hot countries, the dysen- 
tery of some places is more apt to be followed by liver 
abscess than is the dysentery of other places; and, 
even as regards dysentery in the same place, some 
epidemics are more apt to be associated with liver 
abscess than are others. Manifestly this apparent 
anomaly depends on the type of dysentery. On the 
whole, it may be laid down as a fairly general law 
that in the tropics and sub- tropics the liver abscess 
curve follows, in the main, the dysentery curve ; and 
that the geographical range of liver abscess in these 
climates is the same as that of dysentery. 

In Great Britain the liver abscesses met with 
occur most frequently in individuals who manifestly 
573 



574 ABSCESS OF THE LIVER [CHAP. 

had contracted the disease in the tropics. As a 
disease of indigenous origin, notwithstanding the 
considerable amount of dysentery in lunatic asylums 
and similar large public institutions in Great Britain, 
it is distinctly rare, though not so uncommon as is 
usually supposed. Of course this remark does not 
apply to those suppurations which are connected 
with ordinary pyaemia, with gall-stones, hydatids, 
pylephlebitis, and the like ; it applies only to dys- 
enteric and, possibly, if there be such a disease, to 
idiopathic abscess. In northern and central Europe 
it is much the same in this respect as in Britain. 
The disease is more frequent in southern Europe 
in Italy, Greece, the Balkan peninsula, and south 
Russia ; it is said to be particularly common in 
Roumania. In eastern Asia, even outside the tropi- 
cal belt, it is far from rare : thus, it is not un- 
common in Japan, and it is a very notable feature 
of the morbidity of Shanghai and the coast of south 
China. In north and tropical Africa it is common 
enough ; indeed, some of the best modern studies of 
the disease have been made in Egypt and in the Al- 
gerian province of Oran. I-n the western hemisphere 
there is a corresponding distribution ; fairly common 
in the tropics, it becomes progressively rarer as we 
proceed north and south. It is apparently less 
common in the West Indies than in India and the 
East generally. In the southern hemisphere, although 
the Cape and Transvaal and the cooler parts of 
Australia seem to enjoy a practical immunity, the 
European in the Northern Territory of Australia 
and in the neighbouring island of New Caledonia is 
subject to this disease. 

The apparent caprice in the geographical distri- 
bution of liver abscess is probably, in great part, 
explained by what has already been stated with 
regard to the distribution of amo3bic dysentery, and 
to the effects of high atmospheric temperature and 
tropical habits on the European liver, together with 
the circumstance, as will be mentioned in the sequel, 
that the amoeba is an important, if not a principal, 
element in the production of tropical liver abscess. 



xxxiv] ETIOLOGY 575 

Evidence tends to show that liver abscess is the 
sequel or associate of amoebic dysentery a disease 
practically confined to warm climates ; not of bacillary 
dysentery, the usual form of dysentery occurring in 
temperate and some warm climates. 

Etiology, delation to dysentery. There can 
be no question as to the existence of an intimate 
relationship between dysentery and liver abscess. 
Numerous and well-authenticated statistics, as well 
as everyday experience, attest this. In 3,680 dysen- 
tery autopsies made in various tropical countries, and 
collated by Woodward, 779 (21 per cent.) revealed 
abscesses of the liver. To quote recent Indian 
experience : According to the Annual Report of the 
Sanitary Commissioner with the Government of India 
for 1894, out of 465 European soldiers who died from 
dysentery in India during the period 1888-94, 161 
(35 per cent.) had, in addition to dysenteric lesions, 
abscess of the liver. Conversely, in Egypt, Kartulis, 
in an experience of over 500 cases of liver abscess, 
elicited a history of dysentery in from 55 to 60 per 
cent. ; Zancarol, also in Egypt, in 444 cases, elicited 
a similar history in 59 per cent. ; and Edwards and 
Waterman, in 699 collated cases, elicited a like history 
in 72-1 per cent. During the period 1870-95, of 45 
cases of liver abscess treated at the Seamen's Hospital, 
'Greenwich, and collated by Mr. Johnson Smith, post- 
mortem evidence or a distinct history of dysentery 
was obtained in 38 (84*4 per cent.). 

These figures are conclusive as to the existence 
of an intimate relationship between dysentery and 
liver abscess. There is good reason, however, for 
believing that, while they represent the truth, they 
do not represent the whole truth, and that the associa- 
tion is even more frequent than they indicate. As 
has been pointed out by McLeod and others, the 
occurrence of antecedent dysentery in cases of liver 
abscess is very often overlooked ; for, without a post- 
mortem examination, it may be impossible to pro- 
nounce definitely on this point in every instance. It 
is also well known that extensive dysenteric ulcera- 
tion may be present and yet give rise to no active 



576 ABSCESS OF THE LIVER [CHAP. 

subjective symptoms whatever. Moreover, many 
patients suffering from liver abscess forget, or fail 
to mention, the occurrence of a previous dysenteric 
attack, or may mislead the physician by describing 
such an attack as " diarrhoea." Further, at post- 
mortem examinations, dysenteric lesions of a super- 
ficial and apparently trifling character are often either 
not sought for, or are overlooked, or have disappeared ; 
moreover, it is now well ascertained that the amoebae 
may be present without producing definite intestinal 
lesions. Consequently, although the evidence of 
antecedent dysentery may not be forthcoming in a 
proportion of cases of liver abscess, it must not be 
concluded that in these cases there has been no 
dysentery or amoebic infection. 

In a masterly paper McLeod, after a very careful 
and critical analysis of certain figures bearing on this 
subject, concludes that dysentery is a factor in nearly 
every case of tropical liver abscess. In 40 cases 
of the disease observed in Shanghai he had positive 
evidence of dysentery in all except one ; and even in 
this case, as recovery ensued, there was no certainty 
that dysenteric lesions had not been present. Per- 
haps McLeod's conclusions are somewhat too sweep- 
ing I confess, however, that they are, in the main, 
in harmony with my own experience. Doubt- 
less they apply to liver abscess as met with in 
Shanghai and, probably, in many other places. It "is 
just possible, however, that what holds good for one 
place may not hold good for all places, and that 
Bombay, for example, may differ in this respect from 
Shanghai. In the Sanitary Commissioner's Report, 
above referred to, it is stated that in 2 (3 per cent.) 
instances only, out of 74 cases of liver abscess occur- 
ring in the Bombay Presidency in the period 1888-94, 
were there dysenteric associations. It is difficult to 
believe that, did it always exist, so important and 
evident a circumstance as dysentery had been over- 
looked in 72 out of 74 cases. It is equally difficult to 
believe that the liver abscess of Bombay is associated 
with dysentery in only 3 per cent, of cases, whilst, 
according to the same authority, in the whole of 



xxxiv] ETIOLOGY 577 

India it is certainly so associated in at least 30 per 
cent, of the total cases. Manifestly, the statistical 
aspect of this important question requires re-study in 
the light of more careful clinical and post-mortem 
observation. 

Another important point yet to be definitely 
settled is the exact relationship in point of time of 
the dysentery to the liver abscess. In the great 
majority of cases the dysentery antedates the abscess. 
But many clinicians have held that in some instances 
the relationship is reversed ; that in others the two 
diseases are from the commencement concurrent ; 
whilst in others, again, hepatitis, presumably of a 
kind which may eventuate in abscess, alternates with 
active dysenteric symptoms. If the abscess ante- 
date the dysentery, then the dysentery cannot be the 
cause of the abscess. On these grounds some path- 
ologists have regarded liver abscess and dysentery as 
but different expressions of one morbid condition; 
reacting to some extent on each other, but not 
directly related the one to the other as cause and 
effect. Here, again, the latency as regards symptoms 
of some dysenteries has to be discounted in attempt- 
ing to settle the question on clinical grounds only. 
All these discrepancies and differences of opinion 
have to be re-studied in the light of the acknowledged 
relationship of the amoeba to dysentery and to liver 



Race, sex, and climate. Besides its relationship 
to dysentery, there are several well-ascertained facts 
to be reckoned with before we can arrive at sound 
views on the subject of the etiology of liver abscess. 

1. Though common in Europeans in the tropics, 
liver abscess is rare among the natives. Thus, in the 
native army of India the proportion of deaths from liver 
abscess to the total mortality in 1894 was only 0'6 per 
cent., whereas in the European army it was 7 '4 per cent. 
Man for man, the relative liability of the European 
soldier and the native soldier was as 95 '2 to 4*8. 

2. This disproportion is in spite of the fact that 
the native is more liable to dysentery than the 
European. Thus, in 1894, in the Indian army the 

T 



578 ABSCESS OF THE LIVER [CHAP. 

ad mission -rate among the native troops for dysentery 
was 43 -8 per thousand, whereas in the European 
troops it was only 28 '6 ; and in every hundred deaths 
in the native army 4'7 were from dysentery, against 
only 3 '8 in the European army.* 

3. European women in the tropics, though quite 
as subject to dysentery as European men, rarely suffer 
from liver abscess ; children hardly ever. 

4. The rarity of liver abscess in temperate 
climates. 

Predisposing conditions. The foregoing considera- 
tions seem to indicate that for the production of liver 
abscess at least two things are necessary a pre- 
disposing cause and an exciting cause. Dysentery is 
certainly not always and alone both the exciting and 
the predisposing cause. Were this so, native soldiers 
and European women and children in India would 
suffer as frequently from liver abscess as do European 
males there. Some additional factor evidently com- 
plicates the problem. 

As liver abscess is developed principally in tropical 
climates and in European visitors there, and much 
more rarely in the native, it would seem that tropical 
conditions in those unaccustomed to them are in some 
way bound up with this predisposing element ; and 
as liver abscess is rare in European women and chil- 
dren, it would seem that these conditions are in some 
way specially operative on European men. We have 
grounds, therefore, for concluding that, in addition to 
general tropical conditions, it must be the greater 
amount of exposure to which men, as compared with 
women and children, are subjected in the course of 
their business and amusements; or some other con- 
dition, especially that one which is relatively more 
common in men than yi women and children, and 

* Dr. Rees informs me thao liver abscess is more common 
among the natives of Nigeria than these figures seem to show it 
to be among the natives of India. Among the negroes, he says, 
the mortality in dysentery is much higher than among Europeans 
resident in Nigeria. Of those negroes attacked with dysentery who 
lived long enough, many subsequently developed liver abscess. 
Liver abscess is common in Indian immigrants in Fiji, in whom 
also amoebic dysentery is common, whereas in the native Fijian 
both amoebic dysentery and liver abscoss are rare (Bahr). 



xxxiv] ETIOLOGY 579 

which is a universally recognized cause of hepatic 
disturbance over-indulgence in stimulating food and 
alcoholic drinks that constitutes this predisposing 
cause. Intemperate habits and exposure, doubtless^ 
lead to a special liability in men to a hypersemia 
and congestion of the liver tissue by which its resist- 
ance to pathological influences is impaired. In these 
circumstances, pathological influences which in the 
healthier condition of the organ such as we assume 
to exist more generally in natives and in European 
women and children would have been successfully 
overcome, gain the upper hand and lead to suppura- 
tive disintegration of the organ. In support of this 
view we have the statement of Waring that 65 
per cent, of liver abscesses observed by him were in 
alcoholics ; and it is also said that when the native 
takes to European habits in the matter of eating and, 
especially, of drinking, his liability to liver abscess is 
greatly and proportionately increased. 

I conclude, therefore, that in the vast majority of 
instances the exciting cause of liver abscess is amoabic 
dysentery : the predisposing cause, hypersemic, conges- 
tive, or degenerative conditions incidental to tropical 
life, supplemented by such things as exposure and 
unphysiological habits in eating and drinking. 

Supplementary causes. It is conceivable that in 
a highly predisposed liver exciting causes other than 
dysentery, such as a blow or sudden aggravation of 
chronic congestion by chill or excess, may suffice at 
times to determine suppuration. Liver abscess is 
most prone to develop at the commencement of the 
cold season. Further, one can conceive that in a 
hypersemic liver struggling to resist dysenteric sup- 
purative influences some third condition, such as the 
blow, chill, or surfeit referred to, may contribute to 
or determine the formation of abscess which, in its 
absence, might have been averted. 

Briefly stated, the causes of liver abscess are, first, 
predisposing hypersemic and degenerative conditions 
of the liver ; second, exciting amcebic dysentery, or 
dysentery combined with chill, dietetic excess, or 
traumatism. 



580 ABSCESS OF THE LIVER [CHAP. 

Influence of age and length of residence. Liver 
abscess may occur at any age after childhood, but is 
most common between 20 and 40. It is most prone 
to show itself during the earlier years of residence in 
the tropics (40 per cent, in the first three years), 
although the older resident is by no means exempt. 

Influence of malaria. Malaria, by causing fre- 
quent attacks of hepatic congestion and by lowering 
the general vitality, may have some predisposing 
influence ; but, a& already pointed out, malarial hepa- 
titis is essentially of a plastic and not of a suppurative 
nature. It is a common mistake to suppose that 
malaria causes the suppurative liver disease of the 
tropics ; the two concur geographically to a certain 
extent, but are in no way etiologically identical. 

Morbid anatomy. It may be inferred from 
the symptoms that in the early stages of suppurative 
hepatitis there is general congestion and enlarge- 
ment of the liver ; in some instances this condition 
may be more or less confined to one lobe or even 
part of a lobe. Later, as we know more especially 
from observations in cases that have died from 
the attendant dysentery, one or more greyish, ill- 
defined, anaemic, circular patches, i-1 in. or there- 
abouts in diameter, in which the lobular structure of 
the gland cannot be made out, are formed. These 
grey spots are very evident on section of the organ. 
A drop or two of a reddish, gummy pus may be 
expressed from the necrotic patches for such they 
are. Still later, the centres of the patches liquefy, and 
distinct but ragged abscess cavities are formed. An 
abscess thus commenced extends partly by molecular 
breaking down ; partly by more massive necrosis of 
portions of its wall ; partly by the formation of 
additional foci of softening in the neighbourhood and 
subsequent breaking down of the intervening septa. 
The walls of such an abscess have a ragged and rotten 
appearance. Spherical on the whole, there may be 
one or more diverticula extending from the main 
cavity ; or contiguous abscesses may break into each 
other and communicate by a sinus. Occasionally a 
thickened blood-vessel is met with, stretching across 



xxxiv] MORBID ANATOMY 581 

the cavity. Though the pus and detritus lying on 
the abscess wall are viscid and adhesive, there is no 
notable exudation of lymph either lining the cavity 
or in the still living liver tissue beyond. There is 
a peripheral zone of hypersemia ; beyond this zone the 
gland may appear normal or simply congested. 

Number, size, and situation of abscesses. Liver 
abscess may be single or multiple. If multiple, there 
may be two, three, or many abscesses. Zancarol's 
statistics, applying to 562 cases, give the proportion 
of single to multiple abscess cases as three of the 
former to two of the latter. 

When single the abscess sometimes attains a great 
size. Frequently it is as large as a coco-nut or even 
larger; it has happened that the entire liver, with 
the exception of a narrow zone of hepatic tissue, has 
been converted into a huge abscess sac. When 
multiple the individual abscesses are generally smaller, 
ranging in size from a filbert to an orange. 

As might be expected from considerations of the 
relative size of the parts, single abscess is much more 
common in the right than in the left and smaller 
lobes. What might be termed the seat of election 
is the upper part of the right lobe. Roux gives 
the proportions in 639 cases as 70-85 per cent, right 
lobe, 3 per cent, left lobe, and 0*3 per cent, lobus 
Spigelii. 

Adhesions to surrounding organs are frequently, 
though not invariably, formed as the abscess ap- 
proaches the surface of the liver. In this way the 
danger of intraperitoneal extravasation is usually 
averted. 

Pulmonary inflammation and abscess from escape 
of liver pus into the lungs are sometimes discovered 
post mortem. Generally the pulmonary abscess com- 
municates with the mother abscess in the liver by 
a small opening in the diaphragm, the pleural sac 
being shut off by adhesions . 

Liver pus. The naked-eye appearance of liver 
pus is peculiar. When newly evacuated it is usually 
chocolate - coloured and streaked with, or mixed 
with, larger or smaller clots or streaks of blood, 



o& ABSCESS OF THE LIVER [CHAP. 

and here and there with streaks of a clear mucoid 
or yellowish material. It is so thick and viscid 
that it will hardly soak into the dressings ; it lies 
on the surface of the gauze like treacle on bread, 
spreading out between the skin and the dressing, and 
finding its way past the edge of the latter rather than 
penetrating it. When quite fresh, here and there 
little islands of what may be described as laudable pus 
may be made out. in the brown mass. Sometimes it 
contains considerable pieces of necrotic tissue. Occa- 
sionally, from admixture of bile, the abscess contents 
are green-tinged. Liver purulage has always a pecu- 
liar mawkish odour ; it is rarely offensive unless 
the abscess lie near the colon, in which case it may 
hav.e a faecal odour. Under the microscope many 
blood corpuscles are discoverable, besides much broken- 
down liver tissue, large granular pigmented spherical 
cells, leucocytes, debris, oil globules, haematoidin 
crystals, and, occasionally, Charcot-Leyden crystals 
and amoebae ; rarely the ordinary pyogenic bacteria. 
Amcebce, and pyogenic organisms. According to 
my experience of tropical abscess of the liver seen 
in England, amoebae can be detected in considerably 
over half the cases. This agrees with Kartulis's 
experience in Egypt, and that of others elsewhere. 
Rogers concludes from a careful examination of 
scrapings from the walls of a large number of liver 
abscesses in Calcutta that the amoeba is always 
present. I have observed in a good many instances 
in which I have failed to detect the amoeba in the 
aspirated liver pus, or in the pus which escaped at the 
time of operation, that the parasite appeared, often in 
great profusion, four or five days later in the discharge 
from the drainage-tube. I have seen them in these 
circumstances in strings of eight or ten ; the string- 
like arrangement suggesting that they had developed 
in some tube, such as a blood- or bile- vessel. The 
amoebae may persist in the discharge until the abscess 
has healed. It is justifiable to infer from the absence 
of amoebae from the pus constituting what might be 
called the body of the abscess, and their appearance 
in the pus coming from the walls of the abscess a few 









xxxiv] MORBID ANATOMY 583 

days later, that the habitat of the parasite is not so 
much the pus occupying the general abscess cavity 
as that immediately in contact with the wall and 
the breaking-down tissues themselves. This is an 
inference entirely in harmony with Councilman and 
Lafleur's demonstration, confirmed by Marshall, of the 
parasite in the still living tissues around the abscess. 
In my experience the presence of the amoeba does not 
affect prognosis unfavourably. Lafleur says it does : I 
cannot agree with him. In common with many other 
observers I have often seen amoebic liver abscess 
recover completely and rapidly after operation. 

Other protozoa have been found in liver pus. 
Thus, both Grimm and Berndt have found numerous 
active flagella-like organisms therein. Some time 
ago, in the expectorated pus from a liver abscess 
discharging through the right lung, I found a ciliated 
infusorian resembling Balantidium coli. 

In the pus of a large proportion of liver abscesses 
both microscopical examination and culture may fail to 
detect the usual pyogenic micro-organisms. To har- 
monize this well-established fact with modern views 
on the cause and nature of the suppurative process, 
it has been suggested that, though in these sterile 
abscesses micro-organisms had originally been present, 
they had subsequently died out. This view receives 
a measure of support from the fact that in a propor- 
tion of instances there is no difficulty in demonstrat- 
ing in the pus the ordinary pyogenic bacteria and, 
sometimes, the Bacterium coli commune. It by no 
means follows from this circumstance, however, that 
bacteria are a necessary factor in the production of all 
liver abscesses. 

Encystment. In rare instances the pus of liver 
abscess, instead of possessing the chocolate colour 
and viscid consistency described above, is yellow and 
creamy. This is particularly the case when the 
abscess becomes encysted an occasional event. The 
w^alls of these encysted abscesses are thick, smooth, re- 
sistant, and fibrous. In time their contents become 
cheesy, and ultimately cretified ; in the latter event 
the cyst shrivels up and contracts to a small size. 



584 ABSCESS OF THE LIVER [CHAP. 

Pathology. The pathology of liver abscess has 
been a fruitful source of speculation and controversy. 
Much confusion has crept into the question from 
attempts to separate, etiologically and pathologically, 
multiple from single liver abscess. The former is 
often called " pyaemic abscess" or "dysenteric 
abscess," and has been set down as being the peculiar 
sequel of dysentery ; the latter has been called and 
considered the " tropical abscess " par excellence, and 
regarded as idiopathic and entirely unconnected with 
dysentery. 

As already pointed out, a careful examination of 
cases and statistics shows that both forms of abscess, 
single and multiple alike, are, in the vast majority 
of instances, clearly associated with dysentery. In 
their respective clinical histories, in their symptoms, 
in the characters of their walls and contents, in the 
frequent presence of amoebae, single and multiple 
abscesses are practically identical. The only differ- 
ence between them is a numerical one a circum- 
stance quite inadequate to base a doctrine of specific 
distinction upon. 

The view which I incline to hold on this subject 
has already been partly given in the section on 
etiology. There are two factors which are princi- 
pally concerned in the production of liver abscess : 
(1) the predisposing weakening of the resistive 
faculty of the liver by chronic congestion or tissue 
degeneration, and, perhaps, other subtle changes 
brought about by a combination of climatic, dietetic, 
and other tropical conditions; (2) the exciting 
some micro-organism, streptococcus, staphylococcus, 
Bacterium coli commune, or other parasite, but espe- 
cially the amoeba, which, coming from the ulcerated 
dysenteric colon, or by way of the portal circulation 
(Marshall has demonstrated amoebae in a thrombus 
in a branch of the portal vein), gains access to 
the liver and proliferates in the weakened tissues. 
In at least 90 per cent, of cases the micro-organism 
is associated with or derived from dysenteric processes 
in the colon. Whether the resulting abscess be 
single or multiple is more or less a matter of accident. 






xxxiv] PATHOLOGY 585 

If the weakened liver is efficiently inoculated at one 
point only, there is only one abscess ; if at many 
points, then there is multiple abscess. This is vir- 
tually, in a sense, Budd's theory expressed in modern 
terms. 

An apparently weighty objection to this view is 
sometimes urged. Why, it is asked, if liver abscess 
be the result of septic absorption from a dysenteric 
ulcer, is it not a common sequel of typhoidal or of 
tuberculous ulceration in the tropics ? McLeod has 
met this objection very ingeniously and, I believe, to 
a certain extent, correctly. He points to the fact 
that typhoidal and tuberculous ulcerations are surface 
lesions unattended with abscess formation in the wall 
of the bowel. In their case there is free escape of 
the products and germs of ulceration ; whereas in 
dysenteric lesions, in addition to the superficial 
ulceration, there is often what is really abscess for- 
mation with burrowing and retention of pus below 
the mucous membrane, and therefore great liability 
to entrance of micro-organisms into the radicles of 
the portal vein. Liver abscess, therefore, according 
to this view, is a pysemic process. Often, however, 
it must be confessed, the dysentery preceding liver 
abscess appears, judging from the symptoms, to be of 
the catarrhal rather than of a more severe type ; but 
even in this case it may be that the amoeba penetrates 
the portal radicle without producing ulceration. 

To what extent the amoeba is concerned in the 
production of tropical liver abscess it is as yet 
impossible to state. If the frequency of its pre- 
sence is any indication it must be the usual if not 
the only cause. If we watch the movements of 
this animal on the warm stage ; and if we reflect 
that it lives and wanders about in the same very 
active way among the structures forming the walls 
of the liver abscess, and even in what are com- 
paratively sound tissues, preceding, as it were, the 
suppuration, or rather, the necrotic process ; and con- 
sider that it lives at the expense of these tissues, 
it is hard to resist the conclusion that the amosba 
must operate as a disintegrating and irritating agency. 

T * 



586 ABSCESS OF THE LIVER [CHAP. 

Kartulis suggests that it may act merely as a carrier 
of pus-forming bacteria. Others maintain that it is 
a harmless epiphenomenon, incapable in any way 
of inducing pus formation. As yet experimental 
pathology has not given a decisive answer to this, 
one of the most important questions in tropical 
pathology, though later experiments are very sugges- 
tive. Amoebic dysentery and liver abcesses have been 
produced in cats by numerous investigators by rectal 
injection both of amoebic dysenteric stools and sterile 
liver pus containing amoebae ; these organisms have 
been demonstrated in the liver pus and intestinal walls 
of these animals after death. Furthermore, Harris 
and Gauducheau have been able to produce dysen- 
tery and liver abscesses in dogs by similar injec- 
tions of amcsbic pus, the latter by the intravenous 
route. 

Calmette, in view of the frequency with which he 
and others have found liver abscess to be sterile, 
suggests that the exciting agency is of a chemical 
nature, some irritating liquefying body derived from 
the decomposition processes going on upon the surface 
of the dysenteric ulcer. 

Symptoms. There is great variety in the group- 
ing of symptoms in liver abscess. The following is a 
common history : The patient, after residing for some 
time in the tropics, enjoying good general health 
and living freely, was attacked by dysentery. In due 
course he appeared to recover, and resumed work, 
Several weeks or months elapsed when, after a wetting, 
or some such incident, he began to feel out of sorts, 
to suffer from headache, foul tongue, want of appetite, 
irregularity of the bowels, disturbed nights, excessive 
and unaccountable languor, irritability of temper, and 
depression of spirits. About the same time he began 
to be conscious of a sense of weight and fullness in 
the right hypochondrium. Later he became feverish, 
particularly towards evening, the oncoming of the 
febrile distress being sometimes preceded by a sense 
of chilliness. At times he had sharp stabbing pain 
in the right side in the region of the liver, perhaps 
a dry cough and, possibly, a gnawing, uncomfortable 



xxxiv] SYMPTOMS 587 

sensation or pain in the right shoulder. His friends 
observed that his face had become muddy and hag- 
gard. He was uneasy if he lay on his left side. The 
quotidian rise of temperature now became a regular 
feature, the thermometer every evening touching 
102 F. sometimes more, sometimes less and sink- 
ing to near normal by morning. He now began to 
perspire profusely at night, and even during the day 
when he chanced to fall asleep. He had to change 
his sleeping clothes once or even twice every night on 
account of the drenching sweats. 

On examination it is found that the patient is some- 
what emaciated ; his complexion thick and muddy ; his 
pulse 80 to 100 ; his tongue furred and yellowish ; 
the palms of his hands and soles of his feet cold and 
clammy. As he lies on his back it is obvious, on 
inspection, that the epigastrium is too full for one so 
emaciated ; and it is seen that the breathing is shal- 
low and mainly thoracic. The right rectus muscle is 
rigid. Considerable discomfort, if not pain, is elicited 
by attempts at palpation and percussion over the 
right hypochondrium. The liver dullness extends an 
inch too high, and an inch or more beyond the costal 
border in the nipple line ; posteriorly it rises to 
about the eighth rib in the line of the angle of the 
scapula. It is further observed that the line of dull- 
ness is arched along its upper border ; and that it is 
altered by changes of position, the upper line de- 
scending when the patient lies on his left side or stands 
up ; in the latter position the lower margin descends 
markedly in the epigastrium. On deep inspiration, 
percussion below the right costal border gives rise to 
much uneasiness or even to acute pain. Very likely 
one or two tender spots can be discovered on firm 
pressure being made with the finger-tips in some of the 
lower right intercostal spaces, or below the right costal 
margin. The spleen is not usually enlarged. Aus- 
cultation may detect pleuritic friction somewhere over 
the base of the right lung, or peritoneal friction over 
the liver itself. The urine, free from albumin, is scanty, 
high-coloured, and deposits urates. The blood shows 
well-marked polymorphonuclear leucocytosis. 



588 ABSCESS OF THE LIVEK [CHAP. 

As the case progresses emaciation increases ; hectic 
with drenching nocturnal sweats continues ; the liver 
dullness and pain may further increase ; or rhe general 
enlargement may somewhat subside, and percussion 
may reveal a pronounced local bulging, upwards or 
downwards. If the abscess which has now formed 
is not relieved by operation, after months of illness 
the patient may die worn out ; or the abscess, which 
has attained enormous dimensions, may burst into 
the right lung or pleura, or elsewhere, and be dis- 
charged, and either recovery, or death from continued 
hectic and exhaustion or from some intercurrent 
complication, ensue. 

Great variety in the urgency of symptoms. 
Although the foregoing is a fairly common history in 
liver abscess, there are many instances in which the 
initial symptoms are much more urgent, and in which 
the disease progresses much more rapidly. In other 
instances subjective symptoms are almost entirely 
absent ; or so subdued that the true nature of the case 
may be entirely misapprehended until the abscess 
bursts through the lung or bowel, or a fluctuating 
tumour appears in the neighbourhood of the liver ; or, 
perhaps, not until after death, when the unsuspected 
abscess is discovered on the post-mortem table. 

Fever. In an acute sthenic case the initial in- 
flammatory fever may run fairly high and persist for 
some time. Later, when it may be assumed that pus 
has formed, the fever becomes distinctly quotidian 
and intermittent in type, the morning temperatures 
being normal, or only slightly above normal, the 
evening rising to 101 or 102 F., or a little over or 
under this. Sometimes evening temperatures of 103, 
rarely of 104, are registered. In the asthenic and 
insidious type, at first there may be short flashes of 
feverishness at more considerable intervals, to be 
followed later by a steadier fever of a hectic type, as 
in the suppurative stage of the sthenic cases. In 
either type there may be afebrile intervals of several 
days' duration ; and in either there may also occur, 
concurrently with aggravations of the local conditions, 
spells of continued high temperature. Occasionally, 






xxxiv] SYMPTOMS 589 

though rarely, liver abscess may be unattended by 
fever of any description whatever. 

Rigors. In the classical descriptions of liver 
abscess the occurrence of violent rigor is generally 
mentioned as a notable sign of the formation of pus. 
Undoubtedly such a rigor does at times signalize 
this event ; but it is by no means constant, and its 
absence is no guarantee that abscess has not formed. 
Generally the evening rise of temperature is preceded 
by a sense of chilliness, sometimes by a more marked 
rigor simulating, in the regularity of its recurrences 
and in its severity, the rigor of a quotidian malarial 
fever. 

Sweating, particularly nocturnal sweating of a 
very profuse character, is an almost invariable ac- 
companiment of liver abscess. The patient's clothes 
. may be literally drenched with perspiration. Even 
during the day particularly, as already mentioned, 
if he chance to fall asleep the sweat may stand 
in beads upon the forehead and around the neck. 
This, like most of the other symptoms, may be tem- 
porarily absent or, in a small proportion of cases, 
trifling. 

The complexion is generally muddy, cachectic, 
and slightly icteric-looking ; marked jaundice, how- 
ever, is uncommon. 

Wasting is generally decided and progressive. 

^Rheumatic-like pains and swelling of the hands 
and feet, such as occur in chronic septic affections, 
are sometimes to be noted. They usually disappear- 
rapidly when the abscess bursts or is opened and 
free drainage is established. 

Pain of some description is rarely absent. In a 
few exceptional cases there is no pain ; such a patient 
may declare that he does not know that he has a 
liver. 

There are several types of pain local and sym- 
pathetic associated with liver abscess. Complaint 
is almost invariably made of a sense of fullness and 
of a sense of weight in the region of the liver, not 
infrequently referred to the infrascapular region. 
Stabbing, stitch-like pain, increased by pressure and 



590 ABSCESS OF THE LIVER [CHAP. 

especially by deep inspiration, by coughing and all 
sudden jarring movements, is very common, and 
probably indicates perihepatitis from proximity of 
the abscess to the surface of the organ. Percussion, 
or firm palpation, especially if practised during deep 
inspiration and below the ribs in front, generally 
causes smart pain and decided shrinking, the rectus 
muscle starting up as if to protect the subjacent in- 
flamed parts. Pain on swallowing, at the moment 
the bolus of food traverses the lower end of the 
03sophagus, was mentioned to me by a medical man, 
himself the subject of hepatic abscess, as being a 
marked symptom in his own case. Pain on firm 
pressure with the finger-tips in an intercostal space, 
and over a limited area, is a common and valuable 
localizing sign. Among the sympathetic pains may 
be mentioned shooting pains radiating over the chest 
and down the right flank and hypochondrium. 

Pain in the right shoulder. This symptom is 
present in about one-sixth of the cases. It may be 
persistent, or it may intermit ; it may radiate to the 
side of the neck, or to the region of the scapula, or 
down the arm ; or it may be limited to the shoulder- 
tip and clavicular region. In some instances it is of 
a dull, gnawing, aching character ; in others it is more 
acute ; and in some it may be represented by a burning 
sensation, as if the surface of the skin had been flayed 
by a blister. This symptom is a reflex transmitted 
from the hepatic terminals of the phrenic through the 
fourth cervical to the branches of the cervical and 
brachial plexuses. 

Cough of a dry, hacking character, doubtless 
also a reflex from irritation of the diaphragm, or from 
an inflamed condition of lung or pleura over the seat 
of abscess, is not uncommon. When the abscess 
discharges through the lung, cough is sometimes very 
severe and may cause vomiting. 

Respiration is generally shallow and proportion- 
ately rapid. This is partly symptomatic of the 
attendant fever ; oftener it is owing to the fact that 
fuller inspiration is attended with stitch. Sometimes 
the breathing is entirely thoracic, the lower part of 



xxxiv] SYMPTOMS 591 

the chest seeming to be fixed especially the right 
side and the diaphragm almost motionless. 

The decubitus is usually dorsal or right dorsal, 
the body being somewhat bent towards the right side 
and the right leg perhaps slightly drawn up. When 
the patient stands, a stoop to the right may be notice- 
able. Lying on the left side generally causes pain 
from dragging on adhesions, or discomfort from the 
pressure of the enlarged liver on the heart and 
stomach. Occasionally the decubitus is indifferent, 
or even on the left side. 

The digestive organs are usually disturbed and the 
tongue is coated. Vomiting may occur from time to 
time, arising either from pressure on the stomach 
by the swollen liver or as an expression of gastric 
catarrh ; appetite, as a rule, is poor ; flatulence may 
be troublesome ; the bowels are confined or irregular, 
or there may be diarrhoea or dysentery. In the case 
of concurrent dysentery, it may be noted sometimes 
that the hepatic and dysenteric symptoms alternate 
in severity. 

The area of hepatic percussion dullness is usually 
extended upwards and downwards, and sometimes 
horizontally. The extension may be general, especially 
in the earlier stages; later, careful outlining of the 
upper and lower boundaries may discover a limited 
and dome-like increase in one direction, most signifi- 
cant if upwards. The upper line of dullness is not, as 
a rule, horizontal, as in hydrothorax ; almost invari- 
ably, on approaching the spine, it trends downwards 
more markedly than in hydrothorax or empyema. 
Variations in the extent of the dullness may take place 
from time to time, and sometimes very rapidly, de- 
pending not on fluctuations in the size of the liver 
abscess, but on the varying and relative amounts of 
local and general hepatic congestion. One sometimes 
finds even a narrow hepatic dullness in the nipple line, 
with a great increase in the axillary or scapular lines. 
In one case the lower border of the liver may be 
as low as the umbilicus ; in another, especially in front, 
it may be well inside the costal margin. Diagnosis 
in the latter type of case is difficult, and depends 



592 ABSCESS OF THE LIVER [CHAP. 

rather on the nature of the fever and on the history 
and general condition than on local signs. 

Splenic enlargement may be present even when 
there is no malarial complication. This is rare, how- 
ever, and in uncomplicated cases is seldom great. I 
have seen splenic tumour closely simulated by abscess 
in the left lobe of the liver. 

Varicosity of the epigastric and hcemorrhoidal 
veins one or both is sometimes discoverable. 

(Edema of the feet and ascites are rare in the 
earlier stages ; but the former is very usual towards 
the termination of long-standing cases. 

Local oedema over one or more intercostal spaces, 
or more extensive and involving the whole or part 
of the hepatic area, is sometimes apparent. When 
limited it is a useful locating symptom. 

Local bulging, if attended with fluctuation, in- 
dicates the presence of pus near the surface and the 
pointing of the abscess. Usually this, when it occurs, 
is in the epigastrium ; but pus may burrow and find 
its way down the flank, or among the muscles of the 
abdominal wall, and open perhaps at a point remote 
from the abscess cavity in the liver. 

Friction, both pleuritic and peritoneal, is some- 
times to be made out, and is not without its value as 
a localizing symptom. 

Pneumonia, generally limited to the base of the 
right lung, and of a subacute and persistent character, 
indicates contiguity of the abscess to the diaphragm. 
It is especially common in those cases in which the 
abscess subsequently ruptures through the lung. This 
form of chronic pneumonia is a fruitful source of error 
in diagnosis. 

Chronological relation of the hepatitis to the 
dysenteric attack. This is most irregular and un- 
certain. In many cases of dysentery a concurrent 
hepatitis is manifest almost from the commencement 
of the attack ; this hepatitis may not subside, but 
pass directly to abscess formation. Or the initial 
hepatitis and dysentery may both subside apparently, 
but the former may recur weeks, months, or even 
years afterwards, when, perhaps, the attack of dysen- 



xxxiv] SYMPTOMS 593 

tery is almost forgotten. Or there may be no active 
hepatic symptoms with the dysentery, hepatitis 
supervening only when all bowel trouble has long 
passed away. In a few cases no dysenteric history 
can be elicited ; it is seldom, however, as has already 
been insisted on, that careful inquiry fails to bring 
out some story of previous bowel disturbance more 
or less urgent. In a few instances liver abscess 
of tropical origin does not declare itself until the 
patient has been several years resident in a temperate 
climate and quite outside the endemic area. 

The incidence of the symptoms is equally variable. 
Some cases commence with marked sthenic fever, 
much local pain, great tenderness and hepatic en- 
largement, the signs of suppuration, as rigor, hectic, 
and local bulging, rapidly supervening. Others, again, 
commence so insidiously that the patient can hardly 
say when he first began to feel ill ; perhaps there 
may be a history of slow deterioration of the general 
health during a year or longer before definite hepatic 
symptoms show themselves. The former type seems 
to be the more common in the young and robust 
new-comer to the tropics ; the latter, in the more or 
less cachectic and old resident. Between these 
extremes there is endless variety. 

Duration of the disease. Liver abscess may run 
its course in three weeks. Generally it is an affair of 
several months. Sometimes it may run on for a year 
or even longer; particularly so if it burst through 
the lung and drainage be imperfect, in which event 
the cavity may keep on bursting and refilling at in- 
tervals for almost an indefinite period. Occasionally 
a liver abscess becomes encysted and gives rise to no 
further symptoms, its existence being discovered only 
on the post-mortem table, the patient having died of 
quite another and independent disease. 

Terminations. Apart from operative inter- 
ference, liver abscess may terminate in various ways. 
It may end in spontaneous rupture leading to death 
or recovery. Death may also be brought about in 
other ways by the severity of the local disease ; by 
prolonged hectic and exhaustion ; by concurrent 



594 



ABSCESS OF THE LIVER [CHAP. 



dysentery ; or by intercurrent disease, as pneumonia, 
pulmonary abscess, empyema, peritonitis. Recovery 
may also ensue 011 the abscess becoming encysted or, 
possibly, absorbed. 

Rupture of the abscess. Rendu, in a series of 
563 instances of abscess of the liver, compiled from 
various sources, gives an interesting table showing 
the direction of rupture in 159 of the cases which 
opened spontaneously. This table may be summarized 
as follows : 

Rupture occurred into the pericardium in 1 case 0-13 per cent, 
pleura 31 cases 5-5 

lung 59 10-5 

peritoneum 
colon 

stomach and 
duodenum 
bile -ducts 
vena cava 
kidney 
lumbo-iliac 
region 



1 

1-4 
0-7 
0-5 
0-3 



From this it will be seen that about 28 per cent, of 
liver abscesses rupture spontaneously, most generally 
into the lung or pleura. 

Rupture into the lung. If rupture takes place 
into the lung the abscess contents may be sud- 
denly discharged, mouthful after mouthful of pus 
mixed with blood welling up or being coughed up. 
In a few instances, in such circumstances, death has 
occurred suddenly from the flooding of the lungs 
with pus. More commonly the discharge is effected 
gradually, a few drachms being brought up with each 
cough ; in the aggregate this discharge may amount 
perhaps to 5 or 10 oz. in the twenty-four hours. 
In favourable cases the daily amount expectorated 
gradually diminishes until all discharge ceases and 
the patient recovers. Frequently, however, a decep- 
tive arrest of discharge and cessation of cough are 
followed by a rise of temperature, which had become 
normal on the occurrence of rupture. With this 
there may be a reappearance of the night sweats. 
In a few days cough and expectoration return as 



xxxiv] TERMINATIONS 595 

before and fever once more subsides. This process of 
alternate emptying and refilling of the abscess cavity 
may recur many times before recovery finally takes 
place. In some cases it continues for months, and 
may finally wear out the patient. Abscess may 
form in the lung ; or a sudden and fatal haemoptysis 
may be brought about by ulceration opening some 
large pulmonary vessel. In some, expectoration never 
altogether ceases ; if accompanied by fever this per- 
sistency indicates imperfect drainage, or, possibly, the 
presence of a second and unruptured abscess. 

Characters of the expectorated liver pus. The 
appearance of expectorated liver pus is almost pathog- 
nomonic. In colour it is chocolate brown ; in con- 
sistence it is viscid and jelly-like. It may be streaked 
with blood ; sometimes the expectoration may be 
almost entirely pure blood. Not infrequently these 
hsemorrhagic cases are regarded and treated as ex- 
amples of ordinary haemoptysis. Presumably, in the 
majority of instances, this blood comes from the wall 
of an abscess jarred and torn by the succussion of the 
harassing cough. Under the microscope expectorated 
liver pus exhibits the appearance already described 
(p. 582). 

Rupture into the pleura, leads to sudden develop- 
ment of evidences of pleural effusion which, unless 
relieved by drainage, may, in its turn, give rise to 
all the signs of empyema, and terminate in death, or 
in rupture through the lung or chest wall. 

Rupture into the stomach is generally signalized 
by vomiting of the characteristic pus and, at all 
events temporarily, by cessation of local symptoms 
and fever. 

Rupture into the bowel may cause diarrhea, 
the pus, more or less altered, appearing in the stool. 
This is an occurrence that is frequently overlooked. 

Rupture into the pericardium, or into a blood-vessel, 
is almost necessarily and rapidly fatal. 

Rupture into the peritoneum is, of course, a serious 
occurrence, but, I believe, not necessarily fatal. The 
majority of liver abscesses, as will be presently 
described, do not contain the ordinary septic bacteria, 



596 ABSCESS OF THE LIVEK [CHAP. 

and, therefore, may not give rise to septic peritonitis. 
I have seen recovery after this accident, the peritoneum 
having been well washed out and drained. 

Rupture through the skin is said to be the most 
favourable, though a rare termination of liver abscess. 

Mortality. Rouis (203 cases), in Algiers, ob- 
served a mortality of 80 per cent.; Castro (125 
cases), in Egypt, a mortality of 7 2 '5 per cent., or, 
excluding cases operated on, of 76 per cent. In the 
Indian army, during the period 1891-4 (prior to 
which abscess of the liver, in the statistical returns, 
is not separated from hepatitis), and, presumably, 
including cases operated on, the mortality was 57*7 
per cent. 

Causes of death. In Rouis's 162 fatal cases the 
causes of death are stated as follow : Severity of 
the local disease, or through the associated dysen- 
tery, 125 ; bursting of the abscess into the peritoneal 
cavity, 12; into the pleura, 11 ; gangrene of abscess 
wall, 3 ; peritonitis, 3 ; pneumonia from effusion of 
liver pus into the lung, 3 ; rupture of adhesions, 2 ; 
pneumonia, 2 ; rupture into the pericardium, 1. 
Abscess in the brain is a rare but occasional cause 
of death ; in one recorded case amoebae were found 
in the pus. 

Diagnosis. Of all the grave tropical diseases 
none is so frequently overlooked as abscess of the 
liver. Acute sthenic cases are readily enough recog- 
nized; not so the insidious asthenic cases. The 
novice in tropical practice is some time in realizing 
that grave disease of so important an organ as the 
liver may, for a long time, be unattended with urgent 
symptoms, whether local, or constitutional, or both. 

The most common mistakes in diagnosis are : 
(1) Failure to recognize the presence of disease of 
any description, even when an enormous abscess 
may occupy the liver. (2) Misinterpretation of the 
significance and nature of a basic pneumonia a 
condition so often accompanying suppurative hepa- 
titis. (3) Attributing the fever symptomatic of liver 
abscess to malaria. (4) Mistaking other diseases for 
abscess of the liver, and vice versa for example, 



xxxiv] DIAGNOSIS 597 

hepatitis of a non-suppurative nature, such as that 
attending malarial attacks ; suppurative hepatitis 
before the formation of abscess ; syphilitic disease of 
the liver softening gummata which are often at- 
tended with fever of a hectic type ; pylephlebitis ; 
suppurating hydatid ; gall-stone and inflammation 
of the gall-bladder ; subphrenic abscess ; abscess of 
the abdominal or thoracic wall ; pleurisy ; encysted 
empyema ; pyelitis of the right kidney ; pernicious 
anaemia ; leucocythsernia ; scurvy and similar blood 
diseases associated with hepatic enlargement; ulcer- 
ative endocarditis ; kala-azar ; undulant fever ; tryp- 
anosomiasis. Any of these may be attended with 
fever of a hectic type, increased area of hepatic per- 
cussion dullness, and pain in or about the liver. 

Many times a correct diagnosis can be arrived at 
only by repeated and careful study of the case in 
all its aspects. Golden rules in tropical practice are 
to think of hepatic abscess in all cases of progressive 
deterioration of health ; and to suspect liver abscess 
in all obscure abdominal cases associated with even- 
ing rise of temperature, and this particularly if there be 
enlargement of or pain in the liver, leucocytosis, and a 
history of dysentery not necessarily recent dysen- 
tery. If doubt exist, there should be no hesitation 
in having early recourse to the aspirator to clear up 
diagnosis, after employing emetine or ipecacuanha as 
a therapeutic test. 

As bearing on prognosis, apart from the risk from 
sudden rupture in some untoward direction, to over- 
look abscess of the liver is a much graver error than 
to mistake some other disease for liver abscess ; for 
the chances of recovery from operation are propor- 
tionately prejudiced by every day's delay. 

Low pneumonia of the right base in a tropical 
patient should always be regarded with suspicion ; in 
most instances it means abscess of the subjacent liver. 

Perhaps the most common error is to regard the 
hectic of liver abscess as attributable to malaria. 
The regularity with which the daily fever recurs, the 
daily chilliness or even rigor coming on about the 
same hour, the profuse sweating, and other circum- 



598 ABSCESS OF THE LIVER [CHAP. 

stances so compatible with a diagnosis of malaria, all 
contribute to this mistake. So common is the error 
that Osier says he hardly ever meets with a case of 
liver abscess which has not been drenched with 
quinine. My experience is the same. I have seen 
medical men make this mistake not only in their 
patients but in their own persons. If carefully con- 
sidered, there are several circumstances which should 
obviate so serious an error. (1) No uncomplicated 
ague resists quinine in full doses. (2) In malaria, 
if the liver be enlarged the spleen is still more so ; 
the reverse is the case in liver abscess. (3) The malaria 
parasite cannot be found in the blood in non- 
malarial hepatitis. (4) In liver abscess the fever is 
almost invariably an evening one ; in malaria it most 
frequently comes on earlier in the day. (5) Quo- 
tidian periodicity, contrary to what is the case with 
tertian or quartan periodicity, is by no means 
pathognomonic of, or peculiar to, malaria. (6) The 
almost invariable history of antecedent dysentery, or, 
at least, of bowel complaint, in liver abscess. (7) 
Polymorphonuclear leucocytosis in liver abscess : 
relative mononuclear leucocytosis in malaria, kala- 
azar, and trypanosomiasis. 

To mistake other forms of suppuration for liver 
abscess is of no great moment, because in many of 
the suppurative diseases just enumerated the treat- 
ment is the same as for liver abscess, and no bad 
result need be looked for if diagnosis is not quite 
accurate. A more serious error, however, is to over- 
look the presence of leucocythaemia, pernicious anaemia, 
or scurvy, and to proceed to aspirate an enlarged liver 
on the supposition that the symptoms arise from 
abscess. Fatal intraperitoneal haemorrhage from the 
puncture has been known to ensue in such circum- 
stances. If any doubt is possible on this point, a 
microscopical examination of the blood should be 
made before proceeding to explore. 

A point to note in exploring is that, when the 
instrument enters the liver, an up-and-down pendulum- 
like movement will be communicated to the outer 
extremity of the needle, in harmony with the rising 



xxxiv] TREATMENT 599 

and falling of the organ in respiration. If the needle 
does not exhibit this movement, its point may be in 
an abscess cavity, but this abscess is not in the liver. 

Treatment. Hepatitis which has not proceeded 
to abscess formation should be treated, especially if 
dysentery be present or have been antecedent, with 
full doses of emetine or of ipecacuanha, repeated once 
or twice a day for two or three days or longer, by 
a cautious use of the purgative sulphates, and with 
poultices, rest, and low diet. Rogers has recently 
reiterated the value of emetine and ipecacuanha in 
such circumstances. If there be much pain, relief 
may be afforded by either wet or dry cupping over 
the liver, or by leeches around the anus. Ammonium 
chloride, in 20-gr. doses three times a day, is usually 
prescribed. 

When the occurrence of rigor, or the development 
of hectic, or the appearance of local bulging, or the 
persistency of the fever and of the local symptoms, 
gives ground for suspecting that abscess has formed, 
active medication must be suspended, a somewhat 
improved dietary prescribed, and measures taken 
without unnecessary delay to locate by means of the 
aspirator the position of the pus. 

When he proceeds to use the aspirator, the surgeon 
must be prepared to open and drain the abscess if pus 
be discovered ; once diagnosis is established, nothing 
is gained by delay. By proceeding to open the abscess 
at once, the shock of a double operation is avoided, 
and only one administration of the anaesthetic is 
required. 

To facilitate aspiration, as well as the subsequent 
operation if such should be found to be necessary, 
the patient ought invariably to be placed under 
an anaesthetic. Unless in very special and excep- 
tional circumstances, it is a mistake to attempt 
exploration without this, for the surgeon ought to 
proceed with deliberation and to feel himself at 
liberty to make as many punctures as he may think 
necessary. A medium- or full-sized aspirator needle 
should be used, as owing to the nature of the pus it 
may not flow through a cannula of small bore. 



600 ABSCESS OF THE LIVER [CHAP. 

If there are localizing signs, such as a tender 
spot, a fixed pain, a localized oedema, localized pneu- 
monic crepitus, pleuritic or peritoneal friction, these 
should be taken as indicating, with some probability, 
the seat of the abscess and the most promising 
spot for exploratory puncture. If none of these 
localizing signs is present, then, considering the fact 
that the majority of liver abscesses are situated in the 
upper and back part of the right lobe, the needle 
should, in the first instance, be inserted in the anterior 
axillary line in the 8th or 9th interspace, about 1 in. 
or 1J in. from the costal margin and well below the 
limit of the pleura. The instrument should be carried 
in a direction inwards and slightly upwards and back- 
wards and, if found necessary, to 3 to 3J in. If 
pus be not struck the needle must be slowly with- 
drawn, a good vacuum being maintained the while 
in case the abscess has been transfixed and the point 
of the needle lodged in the sound tissue beyond. 
No pus appearing in the aspirator, the remainder 
of the dull hepatic area must be systematically 
explored, both in front and behind, regard being 
had to the lung and pleura on the one hand, and 
to the gall-bladder, large vessels, and intestine on 
the other. The peculiar colour often like dirty- 
brown thick blood of liver pus must not be allowed 
to deceive the operator into thinking that he has 
failed to strike the abscess.* 

At least six punctures should be made before the 
attempt to find pus is abandoned. Provided there is 
complete absence of breath sounds, of vocal fremitus 
and resonance over the lower part of the right lung, 
and pus has not been reached from lower down, then 
the pleura or lung may be disregarded and puncture 
made anywhere below the line of the nipple and angle 
of the scapula, or wherever the physical signs suggest. 

The surgeon should be encouraged to make early 
use of the aspirator by the fact that its employment, 

* I have seen the peculiar brownish fluid -resulting from the 
action on blood of the carbolic lotion that had been used to 
sterilize the exploring syringe, mistaken for pus. To obviate so 
grave a mistake the exploring syringe should be washed out 
with boiled water before use. 



xxxiv] OPERATIVE TREATMENT 601 

even where no pus is discovered, is not infrequently 
followed by rapid improvement in all the symptoms. 
Many such cases are on record. Hepatic phlebotomy, 
as Harley designated the removal from the liver of 
a few ounces of blood by the aspirator needle, is a 
measure of proved value in hepatitis. With due 
care, risk from haemorrhage is small; it is very 
small indeed in comparison with the risk of allow- 
ing an hepatic abscess to remain undiscovered and 
unopened. 

Some surgeons, in order to obviate the small risk 
from haemorrhage attending aspiration through the 
abdominal or chest wall, prefer to expose the surface 
of the liver by a short incision and then explore. 

It is hardly necessary to add that strict aseptic 
precautions, in the way of purifying the patient's 
skin, the surgeon's hands, and all instruments, must 
be carefully observed. 

Operation for abscess of the liver. The following 
is the operation usually practised by English sur- 
geons. It is substantially that described by Godlee 
in the British Medical Journal of January 11, 1890, 
to which the reader is referred for many valuable 
details and practical hints. 

If pus is struck below the costal border, the 
aspirator needle being left in situ as a guide, the 
abdominal wall is incised down to the peritoneum. 
A 3-in. incision will give plenty of room. If firm 
adhesions be discovered, a sinus forceps is at once 
run along the needle, and pushed through the inter- 
vening liver tissue and into the abscess. The aspirator 
cannula is now removed, and the blades of the forceps 
are opened sufficiently, as it is being withdrawn, to 
make a wound in the liver big enough to admit the 
forefinger, which must now be inserted and moved 
about so as to enlarge the wound and to gain some 
idea as to the size and direction of the cavity of the 
abscess. A rubber drainage-tube, about as large as the 
finger, and provided with a flange, is cut to a suitable 
length, and carried by means of the forceps to the 
back of the abscess. The abscess is then allowed to 
empty itself. When pus no longer flows freely, a 



602 ABSCESS OF THE LIVER [CHAP. 

massive antiseptic dressing is applied and firmly 
secured by a broad binder or many-tailed bandage. 

If, after division of the abdominal wall, no reliable 
adhesions be discovered between this and the liver, 
the capsule of the latter must be securely attached 
to the former by a double circle of stitches. The 
abscess is then to be opened, as above described, with 
sinus forceps. After stitching, some surgeons prefer, 
before opening the abscess, first to stuff the wound in 
the abdominal wall with iodoform gauze, and to wait 
for a day or two for adhesions to form. Others stuff 
the wound with gauze without previous stitching. 

Should the abscess be struck through an inter- 
costal space, and if the latter be not deemed suffi- 
ciently wide to admit of manipulation and free 
drainage, a couple of inches of rib had better be 
excised. The diaphragm may then be stitched to 
the thoracic wall or, better, to the skin as well, when 
the abscess may be opened with forceps. To stitch the 
capsule of the liver to the diaphragm is a somewhat 
difficult proceeding ; but if there are no reliable ad- 
hesions it had better be attempted, especially if the 
opening is to be made through a part of the liver 
covered by the peritoneum. If by any chance the 
pleura is opened during the operation, pneumothorax 
will result an unfortunate but not necessarily a 
serious contingency. In this case the hole in the 
pleura must be carefully stitched in such a way that 
the pleural cavity is completely cut off before the 
diaphragm is divided and the abscess opened. Pus 
mus*t not on any account be allowed to enter the 
pleural cavity ; this, owing to the aspirating influence 
of inspiration, it would readily do if the smallest hole 
should remain patent. The young surgeon would do 
well to practise these operations on the dead body, and 
familiarize himself with the relations of the various 
structures involved. 

Some operators of experience completely ignore 
the absence of peritoneal adhesions, and, even in 
these circumstances, open the abscess without pre- 
vious stitching of peritoneal surfaces. The risk and 
danger of escape of pus into the peritoneal cavity, 



xxxiv] OPERATIVE TREATMENT 603 

they hold, is very small if free drainage to the out- 
side is secured. McLeod considers that, in the cir- 
cumstances, stitches will not hold in the soft and 
inflamed liver tissue ; he also considers that, in the 
event of the incision having to be made in the thoracic 
wall, removal of part of a rib is unnecessary. On 
account of the liability of a rubber drainage-tube to 
become nipped when the emptying sac causes a want 
of correspondence between the wound in the abdom- 
inal or thoracic wall and that in the liver, and, also, 
on account of facility of introduction during the sub- 
sequent dressings, this operator uses metal drainage- 
tubes of suitable lengths 4 in., 3J in., 2J in., and 
If in. with an oval lumen of ^ in. by -^ in. These 
tubes he introduces by means of a special guide. 

The author's method. The following easy, rapid, 
and efficient method of operating on abscess of the 
liver I have frequently practised, and can recom- 
mend. The necessary apparatus (Fig. 84), which can 
be made by native workmen, consists of a large trocar 
and cannula (a), 4 to 5 in. long, by f in. in diameter ; 
a steel stilette (6) at least 14 in. in length; two metal 
buttons (c, d), J in. at their greatest diameter, with 
long (^ in.), hollow, roughened necks into which the 
ends of the stilette fit loosely ; 6 in. of J-in. stout 
drainage tubing (e). While the ends of the drainage 
tubing are held and well stretched by an assistant, 
they are firmly lashed to the stem of the buttons, 
over the ends of the shorter (d) of which, for 
additional security, the tubing is also tied (e). Two 
large holes, to provide for free drainage, are now cut 
close to one end of the drainage-tube. The tube is 
then mounted on the stilette by inserting one end 
of the latter through one of the drainage holes and 
lodging it in the hollow neck of the distal button (c), 
and thereafter so stretching the rubber that the other 
end of the stilette can be inserted into the neck of 
the other button (d). When thus stretched the drain- 
age-tube should be capable of passing easily through 
the cannula. The apparatus being so prepared and 
rendered thoroughly aseptic by soaking in carbolic 
lotion, and the direction of the abscess and its depth 



604 



ABSCESS OF THE LIVER [CHAP. 



from the surface having been carefully ascertained 
by means of the aspirator and noted, the aspirator 
is withdrawn and an incision, about 1 in. in length, 
made through the skin at the site of the puncture. 
The trocar and cannula are then thrust into the 
abscess and the trocar withdrawn. After allowing 
a small quantity of pus to escape, so as to relieve 
any tension that may be present in the abscess sac, 




Fig. 84. Apparatus for operation for abscess of the liver (a and & reduced). 

the stretched drainage-tube, perforated end first, is 
slipped into the cannula and carried to the back of 
the abscess. Holding the stretched drainage-tube 
firmly, and maintaining it carefully in contact with 
the back of the abscess with one hand, withdraw 
the cannula with the other. The drainage-tube 
still firmly grasped, the button on the free end of 
the apparatus is slipped off the stilette, the end of 
which is made to perforate the drainage-tube close to 
the button. This it readily does, and the drainage- 



xxxiv] OPERATIVE TREATMENT 605 

tube is allowed slowly to resile towards the fixed end 
still held in contact with the back of the abscess. 
When the drainage-tube has completely contracted, 
the stilette is withdrawn. The drainage-tube is then 
transfixed with a safety-pin inserted close to the skin, 
and the superfluous tubing cut off. Pus flows freely 
from the tube, which now firmly plugs the wound 
in the abdominal wall and liver, and bridges the peri- 
toneal cavity. When the abscess has nearly emptied 
itself the usual antiseptic dressing is applied. In 
operating through the thoracic wall, if deemed de- 
sirable, part of a rib may be excised before the trocar 
is introduced. 

I claim for this operation that it is easily done, 
and that it may be undertaken by the merest tyro in 
surgery and in the absence of skilled assistance ; that 
there is no risk from bleeding ; that, the peritoneum 
being bridged across by the drainage-tube which is 
securely grasped by the liver tissue, there is no risk 
of escape of pus into the peritoneal cavity ; that in a 
very short time lymph is effused around the tube, 
giving additional security when, after a time, the 
tube has become loose ; that, if deemed necessary, a 
larger drainage-tube, by stretching it on the stilette 
in the same way as described, can be substituted for 
the J-in. tube ; that an abscess deep in the liver 
can be as readily opened, and with as little risk, as 
one lying near the surface ; that the shock is much 
less than in the cutting and tearing operation ; that 
there is no risk of pneumothorax should the pleural 
cavity be traversed ; and that the drainage obtained 
is equal to that secured by any other method of 
operating. Several of my surgical friends have 
adopted this method of operating, and have expressed 
great satisfaction with the ease with which it is per- 
formed, and with the results. 

Other operations. Some Continental surgeons 
recommend extensive incision of the liver, using a 
Paquelin's knife with the view of minimizing bleed- 
ing. Zancarol, for example, advises that the hepatic 
and integumental incisions should extend the whole 
breadth of the abscess cavity, which he mops out and 



606 ABSCESS OF THE LIVER [CHAP. 

stuffs with iodoform gauze. Certain French surgeons 
recommend scraping the abscess cavity ; most practise 
irrigation with some antiseptic fluid. These methods 
do not find favour with English or Indian surgeons. 

The method of opening the abscess by caustics, 
formerly much in vogue, is now abandoned ; equally 
so another method, also formerly employed namely, 
that of leaving a rigid trocar in the wound. 

Treatment after operation. For the first few days 
after a liver abscess has been opened the discharge is 
considerable, and the dressing may have to be changed 
frequently. Yery soon, however, should the case do 
well, the discharge rapidly diminishes, and the dressing 
requires renewal only every other day or every three 
or four days. During the first week the drainage- 
tube, provided it be acting efficiently, should not be 
disturbed, more particularly as it may be difficult 
to replace. Later, it may be removed and cleaned, 
and, when discharge has practically ceased, cautiously 
shortened. It is a great mistake to begin shortening 
the tube before it is being pushed out, or so long as 
there is any appreciable discharge. If there is the 
slightest indication, such as rise of temperature, that 
pus is being retained, the drainage must be rectified 
and the sinus, if necessary, dilated with forceps and 
finger, and a full-sized drainage-tube introduced as 
far as it will go. If this does not suffice, a counter- 
opening may have to be made. Delay in remedying 
imperfect drainage is a serious, it may be fatal, error. 

Should an abscess on being opened be found to be 
septic, or should it become so, it must be flushed 
out daily, or twice a day, with a weak non- 
mercurial antiseptic, and a counter-opening made if 
necessary. Quinine solution 1 in 1,000 normal 
saline is useful if much amoeba-laden discharge 
persists for a length of time. 

After liver abscess has been opened and is Drain- 
ing well, temperature rapidly falls, and in a few 
days, or almost at once, becomes normal. Should 
fever persist, it is to be inferred either that the 
drainage is inefficient, or that there are more 
abscesses in the liver, or that there is some complica- 



xxxiv] POST-OPERATIVE TREATMENT 607 

tion. If it be deemed that there is another abscess, 
this should be sought for with the aspirator, and, if 
found, opened and drained. I have seen a patient 
recover after three abscesses had been so treated. 

It is advisable to give emetine* hypodermically, 
both before and after operation. Lately cases of 
liver abscess have been successfully treated by 
emptying the abscess by aspiration and injecting the 
cavity with emetine solution. 

Treatment of abscess discharging through the 
lung. In the case of abscess discharging through 
the lung, and, although emetine has been freely 
administered, not progressing favourably, the ques- 
tion of obtaining by surgical means more efficient 
drainage must be considered. There are two possi- 
bilities which render interference desirable : (a) 
Continued discharge of pus and blood, with or 
without attendant hectic ; a condition which, if 
it persist, will, in all probability, in the end kill 
the patient. (b) Not infrequently prolonged dis- 
charge through the lung may induce fibrotic changes 
in that organ, or may give rise to pneumonia, or to 
abscess of the lung with all its attendant dangers, 
such as thrombosis or abscess of the brain. In 
these circumstances it is sometimes difficult to arrive 
at a decision as to whether an attempt should be 
made to open and drain the abscess, or to leave it 
alone. A large proportion of the cases recover, but 
at least an equally large number die. Of the latter, 
a proportion may certainly be saved by timely 
surgical interference. 

In all cases of abscess discharging through the 
lung a careful register should be kept of three things 
body temperature, daily amount and character of 
expectoration, and, once a week, the weight of the 
patient. If temperature keeps up, if the amount of 
pus continues the same or increases, or if the patient 
continues to lose weight, an attempt should be made 
at all risks to reach and drain the abscess from the 

* A case has been recorded of a patient who, refusing operation, 
was completely cured by emetine injections 21 gr. being ad- 
ministered altogether ; of another in whom the abscess burst into 
the lung and all discharge ceased on the administration of emetine. 



608 ABSCESS OF THE LIVER 

outside. If temperature keeps normal, if pus gradually 
or intermittently decreases, and if the body-weight 
is maintained or increases, operation is unnecessary, 
or, at all events, should be deferred. 

In exploring the liver in such cases it must be 
borne in mind that most likely the abscess cavity is 
collapsed, and that the sides of the abscess may be in 
contact. Such an abscess is not likely to be discovered 
unless the needle be thrust in to its full extent, and, 
whilst a good vacuum is being maintained in the 
aspirator, slowly withdrawn. If by good fortune 
the abscess has been traversed, then, when the end 
of the needle is crossing the cavity, a small amount of 
pus will be seen to flow. Great care must now be 
exercised to keep the needle in position so as to serve 
as a guide in opening the abscess. Recovery has 
been known to follow the introduction of a drainage- 
tube in the presumed direction of such an abscess, 
even although the abscess cavity was not entered, 
much less drained, by the tube. 

Treatment of abscess rupturing into a serous 
cavity. When there is evidence that an abscess of 
the liver has ruptured into the peritoneum, into the 
pleura, or into the pericardium, the particular serous 
cavity involved must be opened at once and treated 
on general surgical principles ; otherwise the patient 
will almost surely die. In the circumstances the sur- 
geon will be justified in assuming great risks. 

The prognosis in early operations on single abscess 
of the liver, provided there is no dysentery or other 
complication, is good. In multiple abscess, or in single 
abscess if there is active dysentery or other serious 
complication, prognosis is bad. In multiple abscess, 
if there are more than two or three abscesses, it is 
necessarily hopeless. 

The question of return to the tropics after recovery 
from liver abscess frequently crops up. If feasible, 
and if the patient has not to make too great a sacrifice, 
he ought to remain in a temperate and healthy climate. 
There are many instances, however, of individuals who 
have enjoyed permanent good health in the tropics 
after recovery from liver abscess, 



CHAPTER XXXV 
INFANTILE BILIARY CIRRHOSIS 

WITHIN the last four decades a peculiar dis- 
ease of the liver has been noticed in children in 
Calcutta and, to a less extent, in other large towns of 
India. It is found to be more prevalent in Hindu 
than in Mohammedan children. Thus, in Calcutta, 
from 1891 to 1893 inclusive, infantile biliary cir- 
rhosis, the name given to this disease, caused 1,748 
deaths. Although the Hindu and Mohammedan popu- 
lations of that city are about equal, yet as many as 
1,616 of the deaths occurred in Hindus, whilst only 
80 occurred among Mohammedans, the balance of 
the mortality being among the Eurasians and other 
races. The disease occurs principally in children 
under one year, rarely attacking those over three 
years. As a rule, it commences during dentition, or 
about the seventh or eighth month, running a fatal 
course in from three to eight months. In rare cases 
it may commence within a few days of birth. 
Instead of lasting several months, its progress may 
be much more rapid, and terminate in death in from 
two to three weeks. 

The cause of infantile biliary cirrhosis is quite 
unknown. Neither alcohol, syphilis, nor malaria has 
anything to do with it. The children of the well-to-do 
are relatively more frequently attacked than those of 
the poor. It has also been observed that it tends to 
run in families, child after child of the same parents 
succumbing within a year or two of birth. In 400 
cases Ghose had only six recoveries; in some of 
these recoveries the diagnosis was doubtful. 

Symptoms. Commencing insidiously, the char- 
acteristic initial enlargement of the liver may have 
made considerable progress before the disease is 
suspected. Nausea, occasional vomiting, sallowness, 
609 



610 INFANTILE BILIARY CIRRHOSIS 

feverishness, constipation, anorexia, irritability of 
temper, thirst, and languor call attention to the child's 
condition. On examination the liver is found to be 
enormously enlarged, extending perhaps to the um- 
bilicus or even lower. The surface of the organ is 
smooth; the edge, at first rounded and prominent, 
as the liver begins to contract becomes sharp and 
distinct and can be readily grasped between the 
fingers, the swollen organ feeling hard and resistant. 
Fever of a low type sets in ; the sallowness deepens 
into profound jaundice ; the stools are pale, the urine 
is dark ; and there may be ascites, with puffiness of 
the feet and hands. Sooner or later, death from 
cholaemia ensues. 

Pathological anatomy and pathology. 
Surgeon-Major Gibbons, who has given an elaborate 
and most careful account of the pathological anatomy 
of this disease, concludes that it is a peculiar form of 
biliary cirrhosis, the consequence of the action on the 
liver cells of some irritant of gastric origin, which 
leads to degeneration of the cells in the first instance, 
with subsequent increase of intercellular connective 
tissue and, later, of the portal sheaths. The forma- 
tion of new bile-ducts between the hepatic cells, which 
is a well-marked feature, he regards as evidence of 
a natural curative effort having for its object a re- 
generation of the liver cells. 

Treatment. Hitherto, in this disease, treat- 
ment has been of little avail. There is some ground, 
however, for thinking that early removal from the 
endemic locality, and a complete change of wet- 
nurse and food, might have a beneficial effect. 



Section IV. INFECTIVE GRANULO- 
MATOUS DISEASES 

CHAPTER XXXVI 
LEPROSY (ELEPHANTIASIS GR^CORUM) 

Definition. A chronic infective granulomatous 
disease produced by a specific bacterium, and char- 
acterized by lesions of the skin, nerves, and viscera 
eventuating in local anaesthesia, ulceration, and a 
great variety of trophic lesions. After a long course 
it is almost invariably fatal. 

History. The many allusions in the oldest 
Chinese, Indian, Syrian, and Egyptian writings to a 
chronic, disfiguring, and fatal affection possessing 
well-marked and characteristic skin lesions, warrant 
us in concluding that the disease now known as 
leprosy was as common and familiar in the East in 
times of remotest antiquity as it is at the present day. 

There is some evidence necessarily of a negative 
character that leprosy is of comparatively recent 
introduction into Europe. The earlier Greek .and 
Latin writers do not mention the disease. Hippo- 
crates, who, had he been practically acquainted with 
leprosy, would undoubtedly have described it accu- 
rately and fully, makes but brief allusion to the 
subject. Aristotle is the first of the Greek writers 
to give an unequivocal description. We may infer, 
therefore, that the introduction of leprosy into Greece 
probably took place between the time of Hippocrates 
and that of Aristotle that is to say, between 400 B.C. 
and 345 B.C. Most likely it came from Egypt. In 
the time of Celsus 53 B.C. to A.D. 7 it was still a 
rare disease in Italy ; but during the earlier centuries 
of our era it increased there, and, probably following 
in the wake of the Roman conquests, it appears to 
611 



612 LEPROSY [CHAP. 

have spread thence over the greater part, if not over 
the whole, of Europe. By the end of the seventh 
century it was well known in Spain, France, and 
Lombardy. There is a notice of its occurrence in 
Ireland in 432. As regards England, the first allu- 
sion to leprosy refers to about the year 950. The 
popular idea that it was brought to this country from 
the East by the returning Crusaders (circa 1098) is 
therefore incorrect ; though, doubtless, the Crusaders, 
and the multiplicity of pilgrimages so much the 
fashion in the Middle Ages, and the destitution 
arising from the many wars of the period, had some- 
thing to do with its rapid diffusion and great increase 
about this time. 

So common was leprosy during the Middle Ages 
that the rulers and clergy of nearly all European 
states, becoming alarmed at its rapid extension and 
terrible ravages, took measures, by instituting leper 
asylums and enacting stringent laws for the segrega- 
tion and isolation of lepers, to restrict the spread of 
what was speedily becoming almost a general calamity. 
These measures, based on what we now know to be a 
correct appreciation of the infectious nature of the 
disease, were ultimately crowned, in the case of most 
European countries, with almost complete success. 
Reaching its acme during the fourteenth century, 
leprosy then began to decline, although as regards 
Great Britain it did not finally disappear as an indi- 
genous disease until the end of the eighteenth century. 
It died out first in England, later in Scotland the 
last British leper dying in Shetland in 1798. In Italy, 
France, Spain, Germany, and Russia the repressive 
measures were almost equally successful, although in 
these countries, in Greece, and in the Greek islands 
leprosy of indigenous origin is still occasionally to be 
seen. The only country in northern Europe in which 
at the present day it may be said to linger to any 
extent is Norway, where, in places, it is still by no 
means uncommon (in 1890 there were 1,100, in 
1906 under 500 known lepers) ; but even here, under 
a system of segregation and comparative isolation 
more humane perhaps in its application than that 



xxxvi] HISTORY 613 

practised by our ancestors, although identical with 
it in principle the disease is rapidly dying out. 

Apart from Egypt, we know nothing of the early 
history of leprosy in Africa. We are equally ignor- 
ant as regards aboriginal America. The historians of 
the Spanish Conquest do not allude to it as a^ native 
disease ; we appear, therefore, to be justified in con- 
cluding that the introduction of leprosy into the 
New World was probably effected by the Spaniards, 
or through the negroes in the days of the slave trade. 

Rise of modern knowledge of leprosy. The more 
important landmarks in our modern knowledge of 
leprosy are, first, the publication in 1848 of Danielssen 
and Boeck's "Traite de la Spedalskhed," in which, 
for the first time, the clinical features of the disease 
were carefully and critically described ; second, the 
descriptions of the macroscopic and microscopic lesions 
the leproma, the nerve lesions, and the lepra cell 
by Virchow, Vandyke Carter, and many others; and 
last, the discovery in 1874 by Armauer Hansen 
of the specific cause of leprosy the Bacillus leprce 
a discovery which brings this disease into line 
with tuberculosis, and has given a much- needed 
precision to our ideas on the important subjects 
of heredity and contagion, and on other practical 
points bearing on the question of the leper as a 
source of public danger and on his treatment and 
management. 

Geographical distribution. Whatever may 
have been the case formerly, at the present day, with 
unimportant exceptions, leprosy is a disease more 
particularly of tropical and sub-tropical countries. 
So generally is it diffused in these that it would be 
more easy to specify the tropical countries in which 
leprosy has not, than to enumerate those in which 
it has been ascertained to exist. Moreover, it is 
probable that in many of the countries not yet 
positively known to harbour the disease it does 
really exist ; for experience show that the endemic 
area of leprosy enlarges as our knowledge of the 
natives of the uncivilized regions of the earth be- 
comes more intimate. It may be safely concluded, 



614 LEPROSY [CHAP. 

therefore, that, with the exception of a few insig- 
nificant islands, leprosy is an element, and often an 
important element, in the pathology of nearly all 
warm countries. 

The only tropical country of any magnitude about 
which .we have anything like accurate leprosy statis- 
tics is India; and even in this instance the figures 
for many reasons principally errors in diagnosis and 
concealment are untrustworthy. According to the 
census of 1891, after making allowance for error, it 
is estimated that in British India there were 105,000 
lepers in a population of 210,000,000 a ratio of 
about 5 in 10,000. Respecting China, of all countries 
probably the one in which there is the largest number 
of lepers, we have no figures to go by ; but, judging 
from what is seen in the coast towns and treaty ports, 
the number of lepers is probably sensibly greater than 
in India. In Japan, in the Philippines, in Cochin 
China, in the Malay Peninsula, in the islands of the 
Eastern Archipelago and of the South Pacific, in 
Persia, Arabia, and Africa, the disease is common 
enough. The same may be said of- the West Indies 
and of the tropical regions of America. 

As regards more temperate countries, we know 
that there are a considerable number of lepers at the 
Cape, a few in Australia (principally Chinese, but 
also a few Europeans), a few in San Francisco 
(Chinese). In Canada and in the United States 
there are also a few lepers of European blood, but 
their number is quite insignificant. In New Zea- 
land, where leprosy used to be common among the 
Maoris, it has died out. There are a good many 
lepers in Iceland. Leprosy is also reported as existing 
among the aborigines of the Aleutian peninsula and 
Kamtchatka. In Great Britain and other European 
countries, particularly in the capital cities, lepers are 
not infrequently exhibited at medical societies ; but, 
with rare exceptions, these cases are not of indigenous 
origin, most of them having contracted the disease 
abroad. 

Though thus extensively diffused, leprosy is by no 
means equally prevalent throughout the wide area 



xxxvi] GEOGRAPHICAL DISTRIBUTION 615 

indicated. Thus in China it is comparatively rare in 
the northern provinces, excessively common in the 
southern. In India a similar caprice of distribution 
is noted ; in Burdwan, for example, the proportion of 
lepers in 10,000 of the population is as high as 19 *5, 
whereas in several other districts it is as low as 1*5 
or even lower. This caprice of distribution does not 
seem to depend directly on climate, geological formation, 
or such-like physical conditions ; for leprosy is found 
in mountainous districts, on the plains, on the coast, in 
the interior, in all varieties of climate, and on all 
kinds of geological strata. Social conditions, it would 
seem, have most to do in determining distribution ; its 
endemic prevalence appearing to be bound up in some 
way with uncleanly habits, squalor, dirt, and poverty 
not, be it noted, directly caused by these things, 
but associated with them. 

Recent introduction. An interesting and, from 
the etiological standpoint, an important circumstance 
about the geographical distribution of leprosy is its 
appearance and rapid spread in recent times in certain 
islands whose inhabitants, there is good reason to 
believe, had previously been exempt. This modern 
introduction of leprosy into virgin soil, so to speak, 
has taken place in the Sandwich Islands, in New 
Caledonia, and elsewhere. 

Sandwich Islands. In the case of the Sandwich 
Islands leprosy was noted among the aborigines for 
the first time in 1859. After the most painstaking 
investigation Dr. Hildebrand failed to trace it farther 
back than 1848. Soon after its presence was recog- 
nized the disease spread so rapidly that by the year 
1865 there were 230 known lepers in a population 
of 67,000. By 1891 the native population, from 
various causes, had diminished to 44,232 ; of these 
1,500 were lepers about 1 in 30. 

New Caledonia. In New Caledonia leprosy waG 
unknown until 1865. It is supposed to have been 
introduced about that time by a Chinaman ; the man 
was well known. Its rapid diffusion throughout the 
island can be, and has been, traced step by step. In 
1888 the lepers numbered 4,000. 



616 LEPROSY [CHAP. 

Isle of Pines. Similarly, in the Isle of Pines 
leprosy was introduced in 1878, and lias since spread. 
In the Loyalty Islands the first case was seen in 1882 ; 
in 1888, in the island of Mare alone, there were 70 
lepers. 

Symptoms. Although, as will "afterwards be 
explained, the Bacillus leprce is the cause of all 
leprosy, the clinical manifestations of its presence 
are far from being identical in every case; indeed, 
they are almost as varied as are those of syphilis or 
of tubercle. Our early conceptions of the disease, 
derived for the most part from the Bible or poetical 
literature, in which the leper is symbolical of all that 
is loathsome and hopeless, are apt to mislead. As a 
matter of fact, in its earlier stages leprosy is far from 
being always, or even generally, a striking disease. 
Often for years the only visible evidence of its 
existence may be two or three small blotches, or 
perhaps one or two patches of pale or pigmented skin 
on trunk or limbs very likely concealed by the 
clothes and perhaps disregarded by the patient him- 
self the true significance and nature of which can be 
appreciated only by the expert. It is generally not 
until the later stages that we see the disfiguring and 
extensive lesions on which the popular conception is 
founded. As a rule, leprosy is a disease of very slow 
development. Sometimes, it is true, it is suddenly 
and frankly declared from the outset, and progresses 
rapidly ; but in the vast majority of cases the early 
lesions are trifling and are apt to be misinterpreted 
and overlooked, and years elapse before serious 
mutilation or deformity is produced. The student 
must bear this important practical fact in mind in 
the study and diagnosis of all equivocal skin lesions 
in persons residing in or coming from the endemic 
haunts of leprosy. 

To facilitate description, it seems advisable to 
divide the evolution of leprosy into stages, premising, 
however, that the division proposed is in great 
measure an artificial one. What are here designated 
stages are not, all of them, clinically and in every 
instancy abruptly separated or even present ; for the 



xxxvi] PRIMARY INFECTION 617 

most part they merge imperceptibly into each other, 
and, in not a few instances, some of them cannot 
be recognized. 

1. Primary infection. 

2. Period of incubation. 

3. Prodromata. 

4. Primary exanthem or macular stage. 

5. Period of specific deposit. 

6. Sequelae ulceration, paresis, trophic lesions. 

7. Terminations. 

1. Primary infection. Seeing that leprosy is 
caused by a specific germ, there must have been a 
time, in the history of every leper, when the in- 
fecting germ entered the body. In many specific 
diseases, such as syphilis, the site of the primary 
infection is indicated by a well-marked local lesion, 
and the time of infection can usually be ascertained. 
So far as present knowledge goes, this much cannot 
be affirmed of leprosy; in this disease we know of 
nothing that indicates precisely either the seat or, with 
rare exceptions, the time of primary infection. In 
this respect leprosy resembles tuberculosis. We are 
equally ignorant as to the condition of the infecting 
germ, whether it enters the body as spore or as bacillus, 
and also as to the medium in or by which it is conveyed. 
We cannot say whether it enters in food, in water, in 
air ; whether it passes in through the unbroken epi- 
thelium, or whether it is inoculated on some accidental 
breach of surface, or, perhaps, introduced by some 
insect bite. 

Sticker has found Bacillus leprce in the nasal 
mucus in 128 out of 153 lepers examined. He 
considers that the initial lesion of the disease is a 
specific ulceration of the cartilaginous septum of the 
nose ; the lesion persists and is an active source for 
the diffusion of infection. Of the presence of this 
condition, epistaxis, he maintains, is often an early 
symptom. Several subsequent observers favour this 
view. 

Although we are in absolute ignorance as to the 
process of infection, we may be quite sure that in 
leprosy there is an act of infection, and that the 



618 LEPROSY [CHAP. 

infective material comes from another leper. Leprosy 
has never been shown to arise in a country de novo. 
There are many facts and arguments to support this 
statement ; their discussion is deferred until the sub- 
jects of heredity, contagion, and the hygienic questions 
connected therewith, come to be considered. 

2. The period of incubation. This is generally, 
possibly always, long, and has to be reckoned 
usually in years two or three at least. There are 
cases on record in which the period of incubation 
must have been longer even than this. Danielssen 
mentions one in which the period was ten years, 
Leloir describes another in which fourteen years or 
more, and Hoegh one in which twenty-seven years 
elapsed between the time at which infection was pre- 
sumed to have occurred and the first manifestations 
of the disease. On the other hand, cases are on 
record in which the incubation period was set down 
at three months or even at a few weeks. 

3. Prodromata. Fever of greater or less intensity 
and occurring more or less frequently is, almost in- 
variably, a feature of the prodromal stage of leprosy. 
Febrile attacks may recur off and on during one or 
two years. It is well to bear in mind that in tropical 
countries such attacks are apt to be looked on as 
malarial. Another very common prodromal feature 
is an unaccountable feeling of weakness, accompanied 
usually by a sensation of heaviness and a tendency, it 
may be irresistible, to fall asleep at unusual times. 
Dyspeptic troubles, associated with diarrhoea in some 
cases, with constipation in others, and usually attri- 
buted to " liver," are also common. Epistaxis and 
dryness of the nostrils, perhaps symptomatic of the 
initial lesion, perhaps corresponding to the epistaxis 
in the prodromal stage of typhoid, tuberculosis, and 
such as is sometimes met with in early syphilis, are 
noted by Leloir. Headache ; vertigo ; perversions 
of sensation such as localized pruritus, hyper- 
sesthesia, " pins and needles," neuralgic pains 
intermittent for the most part, and perhaps very 
severe and especially common in the limbs and 
face ; general aching, rheumatic-like pains in loins, 



xxxvi] PRODROMATA 619 

back, and elsewhere ; all or any of these for months 
may herald the explosion of unequivocal leprosy. 

Another curious feature in early leprosy, also 
noted by Leloir, is the liability in many instances to 
excessive sweating, which comes on without apparent 
or on very slight provocation. I had once under 
observation an Englishman who subsequently de- 
veloped leprosy, in whom this prodromal symptom 
was particularly pronounced, so pronounced that he 
had remarked it himself. This gentleman for many 
years kept a diary in which, among other things, he 
recorded very carefully matters relating to his health ; 
so that it was easy to trace from this diary the gradual 
evolution of his leprosy. The first unequivocal mani- 
festation of the disease, an extensive erythematous 
patch on the ulnar side of the left arm and hand, 
which afterwards became anaesthetic, and two or 
three pigmented spots on the cheek, back, and leg, 
was noted on March 3rd, 1894. Five years before 
this there is an entry in his diary, under date June 
4th, 1889, of the first of a long series of severe 
headaches, transient febrile attacks, and progressive 
deterioration of health and vigour. Under date of 
June 9th, 1892, is the first mention of the profuse 
perspiration which, occurring without obvious cause, 
continued to be a prominent feature until several 
months after the appearance of the skin lesions 
referred to. In the diary such entries as the fol- 
lowing frequently occur : " Nov. 20th, 1892. Feel 
poorly and sweating inordinately ; wondering what 
is coming over me. I am very ill." " Dec. 5th to 
19th, 1892. 111 in bed. 1 had furious sweats during 
this time, and had dreadful pains in the back, the 
lower part." And again : "Dec. 21st, 22nd. Feeling 
very ill ; awful sweats ; weak ; done up." As pointed 
out by Leloir, this hyperidrosis may be general or it 
may be confined to particular parts, generally the 
trunk, the limbs being unaffected or even being the 
subject of anidrosis. A still more limited anidrosis 
is sometimes noted ; it usually happens that these 
non-sweating Spots become anaesthetic at a later 
period of the disease. 



620 LEPROSY [CHAP. 

Just as in syphilis, in a very small proportion of 
cases of leprosy there is a complete absence of con- 
stitutional symptoms prior to the appearance of the 
specific skin eruption. 

4. The primary exanthem. In a considerable 
proportion of cases, after a longer or shorter period 
of indifferent health, sometimes preluded by an 
outburst more severe than usual of fever and other 
prodromal phenomena, an eruption appears on the 
skin. This generally coincides with, or is soon fol- 
lowed by, an improvement in the general health. 

Although strictly macular, this eruption the 
primary exanthem of leprosy varies in different cases 
as well in respect of the size of the spots as of their 
number, duration, and other characteristics. They may 
be no larger than a millet-seed, or they may occupy sur- 
faces many inches in diameter ; they may be numerous, 
or there may be only two or three. The earlier spots 
are usually purely erythematous, disappearing on 
pressure, and being darkest in the centre and shading 
off towards the periphery. But in some cases they 
may be pigmented from the outset; or they may be 
mere vitiliginous patches ; or all three forms of macula 
may concur in the same individual erythematous, 
pigmented, and vitiliginous. In not a few lepers what 
in the first instance was an erythematous patch may 
in time become pigmented, or it may become pale; 
in the latter case the loss of pigment is usually 
associated with a certain degree of atrophy of the 
cutis. Or it may be that the centre of an erythe- 
matous patch clears up, the periphery of the patch 
remaining red and perhaps becoming pigmented ; so 
that the affected spot comes to present the appearance 
of a red or dark ring, or portion of a ring, enclosing a 
patch of pale, usually anaesthetic skin. In certain 
instances the eruption of the various forms of 
maculae may be preceded by local parsesthesiae, 
such as a sense of burning, tingling, pricking, and 
so forth. 

At first the maculae may be evanescent and may 
fade wholly or in part in the course of a few days, 
weeks, or months ; but as the disease progresses, and 



xxxvi] THE PRIMARY ERUPTION 621 

fresh spots appear, they tend to greater permanency, 
to be more liable to pigmentation, and are partially 
or wholly anaesthetic from the outset, or subsequently 
become so. 

A striking feature of this and of all leprous 
eruptions is the loss of the hair in the affected areas. 
Another striking circumstance is the fact that the 
most hairy part of the body, the scalp, is never 
or very rarely affected either with leprous eruptions 
or with leprous alopecia. As the face, particularly 
the superciliary region, is prone to all forms of lep- 
rous eruption, falling of the eyebrows is a very usual, 
very early, and very characteristic phenomenon. The 
beard, too, is apt to be patchy, particularly in nodular 
leprosy. In many instances, before they drop out, 
the individual hairs become white, or downy, or 
splintered, or monillated. 

The most frequent seats of the primary macular 
eruption are the face, especially the superciliary 
region, the nose, cheeks, and ears ; the extensor 
surfaces of the limbs ; the backs of the hands ; the 
back, buttocks, abdomen, and chest. The palms of 
the hands and the soles of the feet are rarely if ever 
attacked. At this stage of the disease the mucous 
membranes are very rarely affected. 

In the distribution of the maculae a rough sym- 
metry may or may not be discernible. 

5. The period of specific deposit. During the 
stage just described, if there be any thickening of the 
skin or other evidence of new growth, it is barely per- 
ceptible to sight and but slightly so to touch. Sooner 
or later, however, another stage is entered on, a stage 
characterized by the deposit or, rather, growth of a 
tissue possessing well-marked specific characters. This 
deposit occurs either in the skin, or in the continuity 
of the peripheral nerve trunks, or in both. If in the 
first situation, nodular or, as it is sometimes called, 
tubercular leprosy is the result; if in the second, we 
have nerve or anaesthetic leprosy ; if in both of these 
situations, then what is known as " mixed leprosy " 
is produced. These three forms of the completely 
developed disease, though having much in common, 



622 LEPROSY [CHAP. 

are, as a rule, clinically fairly distinguishable. It is 
customary, therefore, to describe them separately. 

NODULAR LEPROSY 

This form of leprosy often appears without a 
well-marked preliminary macular stage, being ushered 
in, after a longer or' shorter prodromal stage, by a 
smart attack of fever and the rapid development on 




TERZl. 

Fig. 85. Nodular leprosy. (After Leloir.) 

the face or elsewhere of the specific lesion. In other 
instances a well-defined but, in comparison with nerve 
leprosy, short macular stage precedes the appearance 
of the characteristic lepromata (Fig. 85). 

The essential element in nodular leprosy is the 
Jeproma. The dimensions, the combinations, the 
situations, the growth, and the decay of this give 
rise to the more manifest symptoms of the earlier 
stages, at all events, of the disease. The leproma, 
which will be more fully described in the section on 






xxxvi] NODULAR LEPROSY 623 

the pathological anatomy of leprosy, is formed by in- 
filtration of the deeper layers of the derma with what 
at first is a small-celled, somewhat dense neoplasm. 
As this slowly or more rapidly increases it forms a 
prominent, rounded boss or protuberance covered 
with unbroken epidermis. In size it ranges from the 
dimensions of a split pea, or of a bean, to a great 
plaque many inches across. In colour it differs 
according to its age and condition, and according to 
the natural hue of the skin of the leper; it varies 
from red to dirty pink in the earlier and congestive 
active stage, to dark brown or dirty yellow in the 
later stages. It is generally though not always, 
especially at first anaesthetic to some degree, if not 
absolutely so ; it is devoid of hair, usually somewhat 
greasy-looking and, perhaps, stippled with gaping 
sebaceous follicles. Though not so hard as cheloid 
growth, it is fairly firm to the touch, and, unless 
very extensive, can be readily raised up and freely 
moved over subjacent structures. Isolated leproinata 
are usually round or oval ; when contiguous they may 
coalesce, forming patches of irregular outline. 

When many lepromata run together, or are closely 
set, the growth causes the natural folds of the skin 
to be exaggerated; great disfigurement, especially 
of the face, may ensue. Thus the skin of the fore 
head and eyebrows an early and favourite site of 
leprous infiltration is thrown into massive folds and 
overhangs the eyes ; the fleshy parts of the nose 
broaden out ; the cheeks become massive ; the lips are 
thickened and protrude; the chin is swollen and heavy ; 
the external ears are thick and pendulous ; and the 
bloated, dusky, wrinkled, greasy, passive countenance 
acquires the repulsive appearance very appropriately 
designated " leontiasis." 

Nodules may appear in greater or less profusion 
on the limbs and body; favourite sites being the 
backs of the hands, the external surfaces of the arms, 
wrists, thighs, and the groins. On the trunk they may 
occupy very large areas, forming extensive plaques. 
As a rule, in the latter situation they are not so 
prominent as on the face and arms. The same remark 



624 LEPROSY [CHAP. 

applies to the legs, where the infiltration is usually 
dusky, diffuse, ill defined, and prone to ulcerate. 

From time to time, and at longer or shorter inter- 
vals, fresh lepromata appear, their formation generally 
concurring with an outburst of fever. Occasionally 
and this is very often observed during an intercurrent 
attack of some acute disease, such as an exanthema - 
tous fever, or erysipelas, or even of some exhausting 
disease like phthisis all or a proportion of the 
nodules are temporarily absorbed, leaving only slight 
traces behind. But the normal and usual fate of 
the nodule is either first to soften in the centre and 
then to be absorbed, leaving a smooth circular patch 
of scar tissue; or, after softening, to ulcerate and 
discharge a sticky, yellowish pus. This discharge 
tends to dry up into crusts, ulceration proceeding 
underneath. Finally the ulcer may heal, leaving an 
irregular, depressed scar. 

When the septum of the nose is affected, the 
cartilage breaks down, the tip of the organ becomes 
depressed, and a stinking discharge escapes from the 
nostrils. In such circumstances breathing is very 
much interfered with, more especially if, at the same 
time, leprous deposit occurs or ulcerates in or about 
the glottis, the epiglottis, pharynx, tongue, or mouth 
generally. The senses of smell and taste are then 
lost for ever. 

The eyes, also, are sooner or later attacked, lepro- 
matous growth spreading from the conjunctiva on to 
the cornea or into the anterior chamber, or origin- 
ating in the iris or ciliary body. Ultimately these 
organs also are destroyed. 

Thus, in time, with the exception of that of hear- 
ing, one sense after another is lost. Ulcers form 
everywhere from the breaking-down of the nodules 
or from injuries to the insensitive skin. The cervical 
and inguinal glands, owing to leprous infiltration, 
swell and perhaps suppurate and become fistulous ; 
the abdomen enlarges from leprous, perhaps combined 
with amyloid, infiltration of the liver, and there 
may be diarrhoea from amyloid disease of the in- 
testine. In addition to these troubles, if the patient 






xxxvi] NERVE LEPROSY 625 

live, the nerve trunks are attacked, and then the 
neuralgic, paretic, and trophic lesions of nerve lep- 
rosy are superadded. The fingers and toes ulcerate 
and drop off, or they become distorted and atro- 
phied ; or the phalanges are absorbed, the hands and 
feet becoming reduced to useless stumps. A peculiar 
goat-like smell is emitted by the ulcerating, decay 
ing body. Altogether, the blind, lame, and unhappy 
wretch still retaining his intellect, but devoid of 
every sense except that of hearing, breathing with 
difficulty through a stenosed larynx, and racked by 
neuralgic pains and irregular outbursts of fever 
comes to present, before the inevitable death from 
exhaustion occurs, a sadder, more loathsome, and more 
repulsive picture than anything imagination could 
conceive. Fortunately, in a large proportion of cases, 
the leper is mercifully carried off by phthisis, pneu- 
monia, or some intercurrent affection at an earlier 
period, and before his disease can be said to have run 
its full course. 

NERVE LEPROSY 

Just as in nodular leprosy, in nerve leprosy 
the prodromal and macular stages may be severe, 
or slight, or altogether absent. Usually, however, 
in nerve leprosy, much more frequently than in 
nodular leprosy, the ulterior and more distinctive 
lesions are preluded by a long and well-marked 
macular stage, during which large areas of .skin are oc- 
cupied by erythematous (Fig. 86), by pigmented, or 
by vitiliginous patches. The ringed form of eruption 
is a very usual one ; a red, congested, slightly elevated 
and, perhaps, hypersesthetic border enclosing a larger 
or smaller area of pale, anaesthetic, non-sweating in- 
tegument the whole resembling somewhat one of 
those extensive body-ringworms so common in natives 
of hot, damp climates, and for which these rings are 
sometimes mistaken. Such eruptions may come and 
go, or they may be permanent, or they may spread 
and multiply during many years before the more 
distinctive and graver signs of nerve leprosy are 
evolved. 




Pig. 86. Nerve leprosy. (After Lelvir.)^ 
626 



NERVE LEPROSY 627 

A frequent and very distinctive symptom of. this 
type of the disease, occurring often about this time, is 
the sudden appearance of bullee (pemphigus leprosus) 
one or more or a series of them on the hands, 
feet, knees, backs of thighs, or elsewhere. These 
bullse vary in size from a pea to an egg. After a few 
days they rupture, exposing a reddish surface which 
presently crusts over, exfoliates, and finally turns 
into a pale, perhaps anaesthetic spot with a sharply 
defined, pigmented border. More rarely the site of 
the bulla ulcerates. Should similar bullse be formed 
in the neighbourhood of the first, the resulting ulcera- 
tions may unite into an extensive, probably superficial, 
serpiginous-looking sore. 

A time comes when evidence of profound implica- 
tion of the nervous system, in the shape of severe 
neuralgic pains, formication, hypersesthesia, or anaes- 
thesia, becomes more accentuated. The lymphatic 
glands enlarge, and there is often considerable fever 
and general distress. Hitherto the most prominent 
symptoms have been the skin lesions. These may re- 
main or even increase ; on the other hand, they may 
in part or entirely disappear. But whether the skin 
lesions increase or retrograde, evidences of profound 
implication of the peripheral nervous system now 
distinctly show themselves ; the neuralgic pains still 
further increase, and hyperaesthesia, anaesthesia, and 
various paraesthesiae, along with trophic changes in 
skin, muscle, and bone, the results of nerve destruction, 
become the dominating elements in the case. 

If at this stage the ulnar nerve where it passes 
round the internal condyle of the humerus be ex- 
amined, generally it will be found to be the seat of a 
fusiform swelling, perhaps as thick as the little finger. 
Other nerves, such as the anterior tibial, the peroneal, 
more rarely the median, radial, brachial, and cervical 
nerves, especially where they pass over a bone and 
lie close under the skin, can be felt to be similarly 
swollen. Occasionally even the smaller nerves, where 
superficial, can also be detected hard and cord-like. 
At first these thickened nerves are tender on pres- 
sure, and the parts they supply may be the seats 



628 LEPEOSY [CHAP. 

of hyperaesthesia and acute neuralgia. By degrees 
the great thickening of the nerve trunks decreases 
somewhat, the hyperaesthesia and neuralgia subside, 
and anaesthesia, paresis, muscular atrophy, and other 
trophic changes take their place. For a time the con- 
dition may fluctuate ; the neuritis apparently may 
come and go with corresponding changes in the con- 
dition of the area subserved by the affected nerves. 
Sooner or later, however, fibrotic changes ensue in 
the neural leprous deposits, and the nerve tubules 
ultimately atrophy and disappear. The nerve tissue 
is now irreparably damaged, and trophic changes 
steadily advance. In other instances anaesthesia 
comes on without neuralgic pains, without hyper- 
sesthesia, without constitutional symptoms, without 
discoloration of the skin, the patient discovering its 
existence by accident. 

In nerve leprosy the anaesthesia begins most com- 
monly in the feet, the thighs, hands, arms, fore- 
arms, and face. Later, and more rarely, it affects 
the trunk. The anaesthesia, though associated with 
well-marked lesions of the larger nerves, does not 
always, or even as a rule, coincide accurately with 
the anatomical distribution of their terminals ; a cir- 
cumstance which tends to show that the anaesthesia 
is not always and simply the result of lesion of 
nerve trunks, but that it may be the effect of the 
destruction by the bacillus of the nerve terminals 
themselves. This suggestion is strengthened by 
Gerlach's discovery that in anaesthetic leprosy the 
bacilli appear first in the skin around the nerve 
terminals, and only subsequently extend upwards 
to the nerve trunks. Another and sometimes a very 
striking fact in nerve leprosy is the symmetry ob- 
served in the distribution of some of the anaesthetic 
areas. This symmetry is by no means invariable ; 
in not a few cases, however, it is very perfect and 
remarkable. 

At the outset the anaesthesia in the affected 
patches may not be absolute ; it may also come and 
go; and it may be very superficial, deep pressure 
being for a long time appreciable. But when the 



xxxvi] NERVE LEPROSY 629 

anaesthesia becomes, as it were, settled in a part, it 
seems gradually to extend deeper into the tissues ; so 
that after a time it is absolute, and the part may be 
pinched, incised, and even seared with fire, and the 
leper be absolutely unconscious of pain or even of 
being touched. 

Step by step with the progress of the anaesthesia, 
atrophy of the subjacent muscles supplied by the 
thickened nerves proceeds. Along with the atrophy 
there is a corresponding distortion and a correspond- 
ing loss of power. There is no ataxia or inco- 
ordination of movement simply feebleness. Thus 
the forearm wastes, the grasp is weakened, the thenar 
and hypothenar eminences and the interossei melt 




Fig. 87. Nerve leprosy : main-en-griffe. (After Leloir.) 

away, and the main-en-griffe or some such deformity 
is gradually produced (Fig. 87). Similar changes 
occur in the legs and feet, so that the power of 
walking is much impaired. The muscles of the 
thighs and upper arms, the pectorals, and the muscles 
of the face follow suit very much as in progressive 
muscular atrophy, only in the latter disease there 
is no superjacent anesthesia. 

In the affected nerve areas all the muscles are 
not simultaneously or equally attacked, so that, 
especially in the face, curious distortions may ensue. 
These facial atrophies, whether symmetrical or one- 
sided, in time produce a facies as characteristic of 
nerve leprosy as leontiasis is of nodular leprosy. 
Owing to muscular atrophy, the eyes, after a time, 



630 LEPROSY [CHAP. 

cannot be closed ; the upper lid droops, the lower 
lid becomes everted, and the eye itself may become 
fixed. At first, owing to exposure of the organ, 
there is lacrimation ; but by and by the secretion 
of tears dries up, the congested conjunctiva becomes 
cornified, the cornea ulcerates or turns leucomatous, 
and in the end sight is entirely lost. Ulceration 
often occurs in the mucous membrane of the nose, 
the septum being destroyed as in the nodular form ; 
the tip of the nose may then fall down or be entirely 
lost. The lips, too, may become paralysed, thereby in- 
terfering with articulation and permitting the saliva to 
dribble from the mouth in a constant stream. Changes 
occur, also, in the mucous membrane of the mouth ; 
the gums may retract, exposing the maxillary bone, 
the teeth ultimately dropping out. Anaesthesia of the 
tongue and buccal mucous membrane, and implica- 
tion of the muscles of mastication, may render eating 
and articulation very difficult. 

In time the skin of anaesthetic patches on the 
limbs tends to atrophy ; it loses its glands and hairs, 
and, in the end, may become so thinned and tense 
that it actually bursts into long cracks. The nails are 
not generally shed, but they become rough, or thinned, 
or atrophied into minute, hook -like appendages. 

Ulcers form over exposed parts of the hands and 
feet. They may penetrate and disorganize the joints, 
and thus often cause fingers and toes to drop off, one 
after another. Or, perhaps, an abscess forms around 
a phalanx, destroys the periosteum, and ultimately 
leads to loss of the bone. Or a sort of dry gan- 
grene may amputate finger or toe. Or there may 
be a curious interstitial absorption of one or more 
phalanges, the shaft of the phalanx wasting more 
rapidly than the articulating surfaces. In any of 
these ways the fingers and toes are distorted or 
destroyed. It is no unusual thing to see on a leper's 
hand a finger in which one or more of the phalanges 
have been thus got rid of without destruction of the 
fieshy part, or with only a general shrinking of this. 
Thus it comes about that a distorted, talon -like nail 
may crown a finger which is a mere stump ; or, the 



xxxvi] MIXED LEPKOSY 631 

finger having been entirely absorbed, the nail springs, 
as it were, directly from the knuckle. 

Perforating ulcer of the sole of the foot, usually 
under the ball of the great toe or the heel, is a very 
common lesion in nerve leprosy. 

On the whole, the advance of this form of 
leprosy is much slower than that of the nodular 
variety. The average duration of the latter is from 
eight to nine years, of nerve leprosy about eighteen 
years. Often such lepers live much longer twenty, 
thirty, or even forty years. The end of these cases 
is quite as sad and repulsive as that of nodular 
leprosy. Death seldom results directly from the 
disease itself, but usually from diarrhoea, chronic 
nephritis, phthisis, pneumonia, or bronchitis. 

MIXED LEPROSY 

As already explained, in most cases of nodular 
leprosy trophic changes from implication of nerve 
trunks ultimately supervene. Similarly, though not 
so frequently, nodular infiltration of the skin may 
appear in the course of what originally seemed to be 
a case of pure nerve leprosy. In yet other cases 
nodular and nerve lesions concur from the outset. 
In one or other of these ways what is known as 
mixed leprosy is produced. The lesions are in no 
way different from those already mentioned, and 
therefore this form of the disease does not call for 
more detailed description. 

Pathological anatomy. Bacillus leprce. 
The lesions of leprosy are the result, direct or in- 
direct, of the proliferation of the Bacillus leprce in the 
tissues. This parasite (Fig. 88) in size, shape, and 
staining reactions closely resembles the bacillus of 
tubercle. In length it is from half to two-thirds, 
and in breadth about one-sixteenth the diameter, of 
a blood corpuscle. The ends of the rod which is 
always straight are in many specimens somewhat 
attenuated ; and in many instances presumably in 
old bacilli a moniliform arrangement of the proto- 
plasm, as if from spore formation or, according to 



632 LEPROSY [CHAP. 

Hansen, from disintegration, can be detected. By 
some authorities it is said to possess a gelatinous 
capsule. In common with Bacillus tuberculosis and 
Bacillus smegmce it retains carbol-fuchsiii stains after 
being treated with mineral acids. It may be dis- 
tinguished from Bacillus tuberculosis by its staining 
more readily with cold weak solution of carbol fuchsin, 
and by being decolorized more easily with dilute acids ; 
by the impossibility hitherto experienced of growing 
it on the usual culture media, and of successfully in- 




Fig. 88. Bacillus leprse. x 1,000. (Muir and Ritchie.) 

oculating it into man and the lower animals ; by its 
tendency to occur in dense clusters and in greater 
numbers; and by its very generally being found 
inside cells or, according to Unna, in zooglcea masses 
in the lymphatic spaces. 

Specimens of the bacillus can be procured readily 
by excising a portion of a leproma a proceeding, in 
consequence of the absence of sensation in most 
tubercles, not usually much objected to by lepers ; 
or they may be obtained by including a succulent 
leprorna in a pile clamp, slowly screwing up the jaws 
of the instrument so as to drive out the blood, prick- 



xxxvi] THE BACILLUS 633 

ing the now pallid leproma, and then collecting on a 
cover-glass the droplet of " leper juice " which exudes 
from the puncture. The juice may be spread out on 
the cover-glass, fixed, stained, and decolorized as 
for the demonstration of tubercle bacilli ; or it may 
be examined fresh. Better preparations are obtained 
by making with a small scalpel a minute incision 
into the compressed leproma, scraping some of the 
tissues from the under surface of the skin, and smear- 
ing this with the juice on to the cover-glass. One 
must be careful to exclude the possibility of con- 
tamination with Bacillus tuberculosis, with which 
lepers are often infected. 

If examined fresh, or if a morsel of leproma be 
teased up in water, the bacilli may be seen both 
inside and outside the cells and in active motion. 
Whether this motion is simply molecular, or whether 
it is vital, is hard to say ; probably the former, for, 
whilst osmic acid does not stop it, it is immediately 
arrested by the addition of a viscid fluid, such as 
glycerin or albumin water. 

The bacillus is found in all primary leprous de- 
posits; in the skin leproma where it occurs in 
prodigious numbers ; in the meagre infiltration of the 
macular eruptions where it is much more sparsely 
distributed ; in the early stage of leprous neuritis 
where, also, it is present only in small numbers ; in 
the specific lesions of the liver, spleen, testes, lym- 
phatic glands, and lungs where the lesions may 
resemble those of tuberculosis or may be invisible to 
the naked eye. In the blood-vessels it has been found 
in the endothelium and, occasionally, free in the blood 
or enclosed in leucocytes. It is abundant in the puru- 
lent discharges from the nose, from ulcerating lepro- 
mata or other forms of primary leprous infiltration. It 
has very rarely been found in the spinal cord or in the 
lungs. It is doubtful if it occurs in the brain, the 
intestinal tract, or in the kidneys, although the latter 
are prone to inflammation in leprosy. It is not found 
in muscle, in bone, or in cartilage ; and it is not 
necessarily present in the secondary trophic lesions of 
nerve leprosy, or in secondary inflammatory effusions. 



634 LEPROSY [CHAP. 

Many apparently unsuccessful attempts have been 
made to cultivate the lepra bacillus. I use the word 
" apparently " because some modern leprologists con- 
sider that probably a proportion of these attempts 
were successful, although at the time not regarded as 
being so. Mycotic forms developed in the culture 
media, but as these forms were not acid-fast they 
were regarded, at the time, as contaminations and not 
growths of the lepra bacillus.* A modern view is to 
the effect that Bacillus leprce is really a streptothrix 
like the actinomyces, or, according to^some, the tubercle 
bacillus, that it is pleomorphic to a high degree, and 
that at a certain stage of growth and under certain 
conditions the mycelia break up into short rods, 
many of which are now acid-fast. There is great 
discrepancy of opinion among bacteriologists on the 
subject, each observer having his special lepra 
germ grown on his special culture medium ; this 
germ he regards as the only true one, conforming, 
he claims, to the proper agglutination and comple- 
ment-fixation tests, and its products possessing a 
therapeutic value comparable to that of tuberculin, 
and giving rise to a local and a general reaction when 
injected into lepers. Other bacteriologists, though 
following the methods that have succeeded in the 
hands of their authors, have generally failed to obtain 
similar results. 

The discovery that rats (5 per cent, in Paris) are 
subject to a disease clinically resembling human 
leprosy may lead to a better knowledge of the lepra 
bacillus, seeing that the lesions of the "rat leprosy," 
as it is called, are intimately associated with an acid- 
fast bacillus resembling that of human leprosy, and 
that it is communicable to other rats by association. 

The leproma. The young leproma presents a 
smooth, white, glistening section. When the leproma 
is older the cut surface has a brown tint, and the 
morbid tissue may become, from fibrotic changes, 

* It is to be noted that Fraser, though using the special 
media recommended by Bayon, Duval, and others (placental- juice 
agar and horse -serum nutrose-agar), and tissue swarming with 
leprosy bacilli, was unable to obtain any growth after prolonged 
cultivation. 



xxxvi] THE LEPROMA 635 

harder, or, from degeneration, softer. The specific lesion 
of leprosy differs from that of tubercle inasmuch as 
the former is well supplied with blood-vessels, contains 
no true giant cells, and never undergoes caseation. 
If hardened, cut, stained, decolorized, and examined 
under the microscope, the leproma is found to consist 
principally of small round cells about the size of a 
leucocyte, epithelioid cells, and fusiform cells the 
two latter in numbers increasing with the age of the 
leproma. It can be seen that these cells have in- 
filtrated and partially dissociated all but the most 
superficial layer of the derma. It may be further 
observed that the cells are arranged for the most part 
in groups, generally around and near blood-vessels ; 
and that a very large proportion of them contain 
bacilli, some cells having only a few, whilst others are 
literally crammed with the organisms. Isolated bacilli 
are also found scattered through the preparation, ap- 
parently free in the lymph spaces. The bacilli are 
never seen inside the nuclei of the implicated cells. 

In addition to the bacilli-bearing cells, and in- 
creasing in number with the age of the lesion, a 
number of brown granular bodies, larger and smaller, 
which have been named " globi," are to be found. 
These Hansen holds to be cells in which the bacilli 
have perished and become granular. It is to them 
that the brown colour of old lepromata is due. 

There has been considerable discussion as to the 
exact position of the bacilli as regards the lepra cells 
whether they lie inside the cells or whether they 
are free. On the one hand, Unna holds that they 
lie free in the lymph spaces, and that they are never 
in the cells, the appearance of cell inclusion being 
produced by the zoogloea arrangement so common 
with bacteria. On the other hand, Leloir maintains 
that some of the bacilli are free whilst others are 
inside the cells. A third set of observers, following 
Hansen, hold that the bacilli are almost invariably 
included within cells, the nuclei of which can readily 
be demonstrated surrounded by the parasites. 

Other lesions. The histology of the infiltrated 
macula is practically the same as that of the leproma, 



636 LEPKOSY [CHAP. 

the number of bacilli, lepra ceils, and globi being 
proportionately fewer. In old , maculae, as in very 
old lepromata, the bacilli may be hard to find or 
entirely absent. In the anaesthetic maculae the ter- 
minal nerve fibres are degenerated. 

As the fusiform thickening of the larger nerve 
trunks in nerve leprosy is a secondary inflammation, 
bacilli may not always be found in it, although at the 
very commencement of the nerve disease bacilli, both 
in cells and, according to Leloir, free between the 
nerve tubules, are present and may even lie in the 
nerve tubules themselves. In time the affected nerves 
become mere fibrous cords destitute of nerve tubules. 

The anatomy and histology of the various trophic 
lesions are such as are found in other examples of 
destructive neuritis, and are in no way peculiar to 
leprosy; they do not, therefore, call for description 
here. 

In nodular leprosy the liver and spleen are the 
seat, in many instances, of a peculiar infiltration 
which, in well-marked examples, may be visible to the 
naked eye. Fine yellowish-white dots and streaks 
are seen to occur in the acini of the former. These 
dots and streaks consist of new growth in which 
bacilli abound. According to Leloir, the parasites are 
never found in the hepatic cells themselves. 

In all cases of nodular leprosy the testes atrophy 
and undergo fibrotic changes, bacilli and globi being 
found both in and around the tubules, free and in 
cells. 

In all forms of leprosy the lymphatic glands ap- 
pertaining to parts in which leprous deposit is present 
are characteristically affected. They are swollen and 
hard, and on section the gland tissue is seen to have 
a yellowish tinge from an infiltration which contains 
numerous bacilli and globi. 

Albuminoid disease of the alimentary canal, liver, 
and spleen, and nephritis occur in a large proportion 
of the cases of nodular leprosy. 

Diagnosis. The touchstone in all doubtful cases 
is the presence or absence of anaesthesia in some skin 
lesion, or in some skin area. Anaesthesia is rarely 



xxxvi] DIAGNOSIS 637 

absent in leprosy ; generally, in the implicated spots 
it is complete, or nearly so. It should be particularly 
sought for towards the centre of maculae, in the pale 
patches left after the fading of former maculae, in the 
hands and feet, and in nodules of some standing. In 
no other skin disease is definite anaesthesia a symptom. 

Vitiligo or leucodermia sometimes called white 
leprosy, and by the vulgar very generally regarded as 
true leprosy bears a certain resemblance to the pale 
post-macular patches referred to ; not to mention other 
features, the absence of anaesthesia in leucodermia at 
once settles diagnosis. . 

Further assistance may sometimes be got in doubt- 
ful cases from the fact that leprous spots rarely 
perspire. A hypodermic injection of pilocarpine is 
of use in bringing out this point. 

The sensory and trophic lesions of syringomyelia 
might be mistaken for nerve leprosy, but the general 
history of the case, the history or presence in leprosy 
of macular eruption, of thickened nerve trunks, and 
of enlarged lymphatic glands, and their absence in 
syringomyelia, are mostly sufficient to establish a 
diagnosis. 

The occurrence of an acid-fast bacillus in the spu- 
tum of a patient coming from a country in which 
leprosy is common should be regarded with suspicion, 
and its true nature tested by injection of the sputum 
into the guineapig. " 

It is hardly necessary to point out the diagnostic 
marks of leprosy as against syphilis,* erythema multi- 
forme, erythema nodosum, trypanosomiasis, lupus 
vulgaris, lupus erythematosus, psoriasis, eczema, lichen 
planus, cheloid, body-ringworm, erythrasma, pityriasis 
versicolor, pellagra, elephantiasis arabum, etc. Mis- 
takes can scarcely be made unless from carelessness, 
or by someone completely ignorant of the nature, 
history, and symptoms of these diseases. 

In approaching the diagnosis of skin eruptions, 
localized pareses, muscular atrophies, and anaesthesia 
in patients living in or coming from a country in 

* Unfortunately the Wassermann reaction is of little value, 
as the majority of leprous sera are said to give a positive result. 



638 LEPROSY [CHAP. 

which leprosy is endemic, the possibility of their being 
attributable to this disease must be borne in mind. 
If doubt exist, and it be found feasible, search 
for the bacillus should be made in eruptions, or in 
thickened nerves, or in any nasal or other morbid dis- 
charge that may be present. If this be found the 
diagnosis of leprosy will be infallibly established. 

Prognosis. Complete recovery is an event so 
rare in leprosy that, though it may be hoped for, it must 
not be expected. Recovery from the actual disease 
itself that is, in the sense that fresh leprous infiltra- 
tion may cease to occur, and old infiltration may be 
absorbed, and that the bacilli may die out is perhaps 
the rule in nerve leprosy ; but the effects of the leprous 
process are generally permanent, the trophic lesions 
resulting from nerve destruction being irremediable. 
Such cases may live, however, for many years thirty 
or forty and die of some other disease. 

Nodular leprosy is usually a much more acute 
disease than nerve leprosy, sapping the strength and 
general health much more effectually and more quickly. 
It rarely runs its full course, death being brought 
about by some intercurrent disease, such as, and espe- 
cially, phthisis, nephritis, albuminoid degeneration of 
the alimentary tract, dysentery, stenosis of the larynx, 
or pneumonia. It may even prove fatal as a sort 
of "galloping" leprosy within a year of its first 
declaring itself. 

Etiology. Age. It is open to question if lep- 
rosy has ever been seen in the foetus. It has once or 
twice been reported in the newly born. Cases are 
also on record of its occurrence as early as the first and 
second years of life ; such cases, however, are quite ex- 
ceptional. Leprosy is extremely rare before the fifth 
or sixth year. In the great majority of instances 
the disease begins between the tenth and thirtieth 
year. It rarely commences after 40, although it has 
been known to begin up to and even after 70. 

Sex ; occupation ; social and hygienic conditions. 
Apart from social conditions as affording op- 
portunity for contagion, sex seems to have little 
bearing on the liability to leprosy. The same 



xxxvi] ETIOLOGY 639 

may be said of occupation, and social and hygienic 
conditions in general. Very probably bad food and 
bad hygienic circumstances have in this, as in most 
germ diseases, a predisposing influence \ but they 
certainly cannot create a lepra bacillus and leprosy, 
any more than they can create an acarus and itch. 
This is abundantly, shown by the absence of leprosy 
at an earlier period in countries in which, without 
alteration in the food or other hygienic conditions, 
the susceptibility of the natives to the disease was 
subsequently proved by its rapid spread on being 
introduced from without, e.g. the Sandwich Islands 
and New Caledonia ; and also by the disappearance 
of the disease, in other instances, under the influence 
of the segregation and isolation of lepers, without any 
concurrent material alteration in food or other circum- 
stances, e.g. Scotland, Ireland, and most European 
countries. 

Sir Jonathan Hutchinson very sagaciously and 
truly remarked that leprosy is more especially a dis- 
ease of semi-civilization. Savages are exempt ; the 
highly civilized are exempt; but when the savage 
begins to wear clothes and live in houses he becomes 
subject to the disease. In other words, in the early 
stages of civilization opportunities of infection are 
multiplied, and their influence is not counteracted 
by cleanliness of house or person. 

Climate. Climate can in no way be considered a 
cause of leprosy, for leprosy exists in all climates and 
in all latitudes. But it does seem to have some 
influence in determining, to a certain extent, the type 
the disease assumes. It would appear that the nodular 
form is more common in cold, damp climates ; the 
nerve form in warm or dry climates. 

The lepra bacillus. Hansen remarks, "There is 
hardly anything on earth, or between it and heaven, 
which has not been regarded as the cause of leprosy." 
However true this remark may be as regards times 
prior to Hansen's discovery, we are now practically 
certain that the lepra bacillus is the cause of leprosy. 
The only gap in the evidence, otherwise conclusive, 
lies in our present inability to convey with certainty, 



640 LEPROSY [CHAP. 

by inoculation or otherwise, the cultivated bacillus to 
the lower animals, or, perhaps, to man himself. 

Many attempts have been made to communicate 
leprosy to man by inoculation ; hitherto, with one 
questionable exception, all have failed. A Sandwich 
Islander, apparently at the time free from leprosy, 
was inoculated from a lepra nodule. Within a month 
he had symptoms of leprous neuritis ; two years later 
he was a confirmed leper; and in six years from 
the date of the inoculation he died of leprosy. Un- 
fortunately the subject of the experiment was a 
native of a country in which leprosy was extensively 
endemic, and, besides, he had lived among lepers ; in 
fact, members of his family were lepers. However 
possible it may be that the bacillus in this instance 
had been communicated by the inoculation, the cir- 
cumstances in which the experiment was made, and 
the unusual shortness of the incubation period, are 
against its being regarded as conclusive evidence of 
the inoculability of the disease. 

To bridge over this important gap in the evidence, 
we have to fall back on the close analogy that subsists 
between Bacillus leprce and Bacillus tuberculosis, the 
leproma and the tubercle, leprosy and tuberculosis. 
In consideration of this and other circumstances, it 
is generally conceded that Bacillus leprce, is the cause 
of leprosy, just as Bacillus tuberculosis is the cause of 
tubercle. Authorities differ, however, as to the way 
in which the bacillus is acquired. 

How acquired. It is absurd to suppose that an 
organism, no matter how humble its place in the 
scale of life, can originate de novo. Disregarding 
this, we have to consider two principal views as to 
the way in which the bacillus is acquired heredity 
and contagion. 

Heredity. From the fact that it tends to run in families * 
and that in certain instances it assumes the appearance of atav- 
ism, leprosy, until the Bacillus leprw was discovered, was almost 

* It has been estimated that 10 per cent, of the children of 
leprous parents, provided the children remain under the local 
conditions in which the parents lived, become lepers; if the 
parents emigrate to a non-endemic country before the birth of 
the children, this liability ceases. 



xxxvi] NOT AN HEREDITARY DISEASE 641 

universally as it still is by some believed to be an hereditary 
disease. That this belief, in the same sense as that tubercle 
may be said to be hereditary, was well founded is quite pos- 
sible ; that is to say, that certain physio-pathological qualities 
predisposing to leprosy may be inherited. But since the dis- 
covery of the bacillus it is impossible any longer, if we pro- 
perly consider it, to believe that the bacillus itself, and there- 
fore the disease it causes, can be hereditary in the scientific 
sense of the word. Physiological peculiarities and suscepti- 
bilities may, but parasites cannot, be inherited. It is true 
the ovum may be infected by a germ, as in syphilis ; but 
infection is not heredity. That the ovum can be infected 
at some stage of its existence by the lepra bacillus is proved if 
it be true that children have been born with the lesions of 
leprosy on them. But the fact that leprosy is common in the 
descendants and blood collaterals of lepers is no proof of ovum 
infection in every, or perhaps in any case ; for family liability 
is quite as explicable by an hypothesis of contagion, or outside 
infection, as by an hypothesis of inherited infection. Not 
only may the individuals of a family inherit a family predis- 
position of susceptibility to the bacillu?, but, as a family, the 
members of it are generally at one time or another closely 
associated, exposed to the same hygienic influences, liable by 
contact to communicate each other's parasites, or to acquire the 
parasites latent in their common surroundings. Because the 
members of a family simultaneously, or one after another, 
contract scabies, or ringworm, or typhoid, no one supposes on 
that account that any of these diseases is hereditary. 

Without absolutely denying the possibility -'of ovum in- 
fection, the probability is that such an event is very rare. 
The age at which leprosy usually appears is against such a 
supposition. The latency of a germ for twenty, thirty, forty, 
or even seventy years is an extremely improbable thing and 
without parallel in pathology. Atavism, or rather, the ap- 
pearance of atavism, frequently met with in leprosy, is also 
against such a supposition ; for, although we can understand 
infection of an ovum by a leper parent, we cannot understand 
the transmission of a germ from a grandparent to a grand- 
child through a parent who is not, never was, and may never 
become a leper. Such a thing would imply proliferation of the 
bacillus in the parent without pathological evidence of its 
presence. 

Even admitting that leprosy is sometimes transmitted by 
ovum infection, this method of transmission cannot be the 
only one, or even a common one, for many lepers have no 
leper ancestors ; and, as is well known, the healthy European, 
coming from a country in which leprosy has not been seen for 
generations, may acquire leprosy on visiting a country in 
which the disease is endemic. 

If leprosy be communicated generally, or even sometimes, by 
parent to child by heredity, how explain the striking fact, 
brought out by Hansen, that of the numerous offspring of 160 



642 LEPROSY [CHAP. 

Norwegian lepers who emigrated to America not one has be- 
come a leper ? or, again, the equally well attested fact that 
children sometimes become lepers first, their parents afterwards ? 

Another powerful argument against the doctrine of heredity 
is the circumstance that lepers become sterile early in the 
disease. From this it is evident that unless the ranks of leprosy 
are recruited in some other way than) by heredity the disease 
would inevitably die out in one or, at most, two generations. 

From considerations such as these the view that leprosy is 
an hereditary disease has now few adherents among the well 
informed. 

Contagion. With few exceptions, the best authori- 
ties believe that leprosy is propagated by contagion, 
and only by contagion. The same unanimity of 
opinion does not obtain as to the particular way in 
which, or medium by which, the contagium is applied ; 
but that it passes, directly or indirectly, from the 
infecting leper to the infected, nearly all are agreed 
to regard as being practically proved. The principal 
facts and considerations on which this important 
conclusion is founded are as follows : 

Leprosy is a germ disease, and therefore it cannot 
originate de novo. It must come from a pre-existing 
germ whose habitat may be air, soil, water, plant, 
beast, food, or man. That the habitat of the infect- 
ing germ is man is rendered in the highest degree 
probable by the fact that the germ is found in the 
human tissues and, hitherto, nowhere else; and by 
the fact that leprosy has never been known to appear 
on virgin soil independently of the prior advent of a 
leper. When a leper settles down in virgin country, 
after a time cases of the disease crop up among 
his companions and immediate neighbours. Some of 
these newly-made lepers, proceeding to a different 
part of the country, in time become centres for 
other groups of cases. Thus in the early history of 
the introduction of leprosy into a virgin country 
as New Caledonia the spread of the disease from 
individual to individual, and from place to place, can 
be, and has been, traced. 

In further proof it can be advanced that not 
only may a native of a non-leper country acquire the 
disease on visiting a leper country, but he may also 
communicate the disease to others, his countrymen, 



xxxvi] COMMUNICABLE BY CONTAGION 643 

on his return to his own country. There is at least 
one well-authenticated example of this on record. 
Dr. Hawtrey Benson, in 1872, showed at the Medical 
Society of Dublin a leper, an Irishman, who had 
acquired his disease in the West Indies. After his 
return to Ireland he slept in the same bed as his 
brother, who, moreover, sometimes wore the leper's 
clothes. In time the brother, who had never been 
out of the United Kingdom, became a leper, and was 
shown to the same medical society in 1877. In this 
case there can be no question of fact or of diagnosis. 
Such a case can only be explained by contagion. 
Though not quite so well authenticated and conclu- 
sive, many similar instances of the communication of 
leprosy by contagion are on record. The case just 
mentioned is alone almost conclusive ; for if leprosy 
is proved to be communicable by contagion in one 
case, the probabilities are that it is so acquired in 
every case. 

It has been advanced against the contagiousness 
of leprosy, that it attacks a very small proportion 
only of the attendants, nurses, and doctors in leper 
asylums. But might not a similar objection be raised 
to the contagiousness of scabies or of ringworm? 
The conditions for successful contagion are known and 
can be easily avoided in the latter diseases ; they are 
not known, and are therefore not invariably avoided 
in leprosy. All contagious diseases demand certain 
conditions for their diffusion. In some diseases these 
conditions are easily complied with and often concur ; 
in other diseases they are with difficulty complied 
with and rarely concur. Leprosy belongs to the latter 
category. 

Probably intimate personal contact, and certain 
concurrences in the -phases of the disease with special 
conditions in the health or physiological state of the 
recipient, are necessary for the successful communi- 
cation and acquisition of leprosy. The simple im- 
plantation of the bacillus does not suffice ; for, as 
already pointed out, of the many inoculations that 
have been made only one has any claim to be 
regarded as having been successful. 



644 LEPROSY [CHAP. 

Articles of diet, such as imperfectly cured fish, 
have been incriminated as media for infection. Sir 
Jonathan Hutchinson for many years strenuously 
advocated this doctrine. The historical, epidemio- 
logical, and circumstantial evidence on which it is 
sought to establish this speculation, though highly 
suggestive, is, in the opinion of most authorities, 
insufficient. 

Prevention. If it be conceded that leprosy is 
caused by a germ, that it is contagious directly or in- 
directly, and that it never breaks fresh ground unless 
first introduced from without and by a leper, then 
the leper must be regarded as a source of danger, and, 
qua leprosy, the only source of danger to any com- 
munity he "may live amongst. Therefore a sure and 
the most effectual way of suppressing the disease is 
the thorough isolation of existing lepers. There are 
many difficulties, however, especially in such countries 
as India, in giving practical expression to what 
appears to be a perfectly logical conclusion difficulties 
springing from the rights of the individual, finance 
difficulties, difficulties arising from concealment or 
incorrect diagnosis, as well as from the continued 
introduction of fresh cases from without. These and 
other obvious obstacles, incident to any attempt at a 
wholesale system of thorough isolation, are so great 
that the most that can be hoped for at the present 
time, and in the present state of public opinion, is some 
modified system of segregation and isolation, such as 
has worked so successfully in recent years in Norway. 

Where possible, therefore, lepers should be segre- 
gated in isolated asylums, which should be so conducted 
as to prove attractive. Those who cannot be made, or 
persuaded, to enter these asylums should be isolated 
as much as possible from their families and the 
public ; scrupulous cleanliness of their persons and 
houses should also be insisted on. Lepers ought not 
to be allowed to beg in the streets as is often the 
case in Eastern cities to keep shops, or to handle 
food or clothes intended for sale, to wander about the 
country as pedlars or mendicants, to hire themselves 
out as servants or prostitutes, or to frequent fairs 



xxxvi] TREATMENT 645 

and public places. All lepers in the ulcerative stage 
of the disease, when it is to be presumed that myriads 
of bacilli are being constantly given off from their 
sores, should be still more scrupulously isolated, their 
discharges, clothes, and dressings being systematically 
destroyed or disinfected. A child born of a leper 
should at once be removed from the diseased parent, 
and, if necessary, cared for at the public expense. 

Leprosy is feebly contagious, or rather, the condi- 
tions for successful contagion rarely occur ; so rarely, 
that it is more than probable that under such a modified 
system of segregation and isolation as that indicated 
they would occur so seldom that the disease would 
rapidly die out. 

Vaccination. It has riot been actually proved 
that leprosy can be communicated by vaccination, 
although there is some evidence in favour of such a 
supposition. But, although this has not been proved, 
it is an obvious and very desirable precaution, in 
countries in which the disease is endemic, to take 
care that the vaccinifer is not only not the subject of 
actual leprous eruption, but also that he or she comes 
from a family and community free from leprosy. 
An apparently healthy vaccinifer may contain lepra 
bacilli in a latent state may be, in fact, a potential 
leper and capable of communicating the disease. 

Treatment. Scrupulous and systematic atten- 
tion to personal and domestic hygiene and cleanliness ; 
frequent bathing and the free use of soap ; frequent 
changes of underclothing ; good food ; fresh air ; 
light work ; the avoidance of overstrain, fatigue, 
and of exposure to bad weather these things are all 
of prime importance in the treatment of leprosy, 
and should be insisted on. It has been found that 
most lepers on being placed in favourable hygienic 
conditions improve for a time, and that in a small 
proportion of cases the disease by these means may 
sometimes be actually arrested. Europeans who have 
contracted leprosy in the tropics almost invariably 
undergo temporary improvement on return to the 
more bracing climate and more nutritious diet of 
their native lands. It seems to me that the methods 



646 LEPROSY [CHAP. 

of treatment now coming into vogue for tuberculosis 
are equally applicable to leprosy. 

Many drugs have been regarded, from time to 
time, as being more or less in the nature of specifics 
in the treatment of this disease. But, though some 
of these drugs appear for a time to do good, and in 
consequence acquire a certain degree of popularity, 
hitherto all of them, one after another, have sooner 
or later fallen into disfavour. One is very apt to be 
deceived in estimating the value of a drug in leprosy. 
The leper applies for treatment generally during, or 
soon after, one of the periodical exacerbations of the 
disease, and when the nodules and other eruptions 
are active and well pronounced In the natural 
course of events, and without treatment of any 
description, especially if the patient be placed under 
favourable hygienic conditions, these acute manifesta- 
tions tend to become quiescent, and the disease tem- 
porarily to ameliorate. Observers are too apt to 
attribute this natural and temporary amelioration to 
whatever drug the patient may happen to be given 
at the time. Moreover, in judging of the value of 
any drug in leprosy, it must be remembered that 
the disease may be arrested spontaneously, or even 
be recovered from, without the use of any drug 
whatever. 

Chaulmoogra oil (Oleum gynocardium), in doses 
of from 2 to 10 up to 40 drops or more, according 
to tolerance, three times a day, together with in- 
unction of the same drug mixed with some oil, 
is a favourite remedy with English practitioners. 
Such lepers as can assimilate large doses of this drug 
appear to derive benefit. Sandwith has reported 
a case in which marked benefit followed persistent 
hypodermic administration of chaulmoogra. I have 
had lepers under my care who, in addition to large 
doses of chaulmoogra by the mouth, received hypo- 
dermic injections daily up to one drachm of the 
drug. The improvement for a time was marked. 
The bacilli, however, were just as abundant in 
the nodules during and after as before treatment, 
and there was no alteration in their appearance. 



xxxvi] TREATMENT 647 

Encouraged by the clinical results, I have persevered 
with this treatment for many weeks at a time. In 
one instance the patient died from what was sus- 
piciously like fat embolism ; in another, while 
very large doses of chaulmoogra were being taken 
by the mouth and injected hypodermically, severe 
leprotic fever, associated with profuse eruption of 
lepromata, set in. 

Sir Leonard Rogers has obtained very encouraging 
results from the intravenous injection of sodium 
gynocardate * in doses of ^ to f gr. in 3-per-cent. 
sterilized solution. A definite local reaction in a 
proportion of cases, sometimes with fever, follows 
the injection. 

Anti-leprol (Bayer), a preparation derived from 
chaulmoogra oil, is better tolerated than the crude 
drug and may be given in larger doses, up to 2 or 
3 drachms a day by mouth and 7 minims subcutane- 
ously twice a day. 

Rocamora reports favourably of combining a pro- 
longed (eighteen months) salvarsan treatment with a 
chaulmoogra course. 

Gurjun oil, once in favour, seems to have been 
abandoned. 

Unna claims to have cured several cases of leprosy 
by the internal administration of ichthyol in increas- 
ing doses, combining the internal medication with 
vigorous rubbing of the arms and legs twice a day 
with pyrogallic acid (10 per cent.) in lanolin, and the 
cheeks and trunk with chrysophanic acid (10 per 
cent. ) in lanolin ; at the same time applying to the 
forehead and chin a plaster of chrysophanic and sali- 
cylic acids with creosote, changing the plaster every 
day. The treatment is continued for a month, and is 
then followed by a course of warm baths before being 
resumed. 

Tuberculin has also been tried. It produces a 
local and a general reaction, which is sometimes 
curiously delayed for one or two days. So far from 
doing good it seems to aggravate the disease, causing 

* The drug, put up in proper doses in ampoules, can be 
obtained from Messrs. Smith, Stanistreet & Co. 



648 LEPEOSY [CHAP 

fresh eruptions, and also causing bacilli to appear in 
the blood. 

Radcliffe Crocker recorded several cases of leprosy 
in which great improvement followed weekly hypo- 
dermic injections of ^ gr. of perchloride of mercury. 

Iodide of potassium aggravates leprosy if given 
in full doses ; it not only affects the general health 
prejudicially, but it causes fresh eruptions to appear. 

Danielssen regards salicylate of soda, combined 
with cod-liver oil, quinine and iron, good food, and 
good hygiene, as the best treatment for leprosy. 
He claims for the salicylate, if commenced within 
the first few months from the appearance of the 
disease, that it sometimes effects a cure. He begins 
with 15 gr. four times a day, and gradually increases 
the dose during six months or a year. 

I have tried thyroidin in a case of nerve 
leprosy. The patient is now absolutely free from 
symptoms. 

Salvarsan administered at frequent intervals intra- 
venously and combined with anti-leprol is said to 
have given favourable results in nodular but not in 
anaesthetic cases. 

Hydroxylamin, europhen, naphthol, salol, methyl- 
ene blue, and aristol have also been tried recently ; 
the results have not proved encouraging. 

It has been proposed to treat leprosy by inocula- 
tions of the erysipelas streptococcus, or by injections 
of the filtered toxin obtained from cultures of that 
organism (Impey). 

Nerve-stretching, with or without nerve-splitting, 
has been strongly advocated (McLeod) for the cure 
of leprous neuralgia, anaesthesia, muscular atrophy, 
and other trophic lesions. At the best they can 
benefit the local lesion alone, and that but tempo- 
rarily, and only in the earlier stages of the leprous 
neuritis before the nerve has undergone fibrous 
transformation. 

In the case of leprous nodules spreading on to 
the cornea and threatening to interfere with the line 
of vision, Brockmann has shown that the extension 
of the leproma may be arrested by division of the 



xxxvi] NASTIN TREATMENT 649 

cornea on the pupillary side of the lesion ; it is found 
that the bacilli do not traverse the cicatrix. Tarsor- 
rhaphy for ectropion of the lower lid ; iridectomy for 
iritis, or synechiae ; tracheotomy for laryngeal stenosis; 
and necrotomy for bone disease, may sometimes have 
to be performed. Horder strongly recommends ampu- 
tation for perforating or other forms of ulceration ; 
the general health is much improved by the removal 
of such sources of sepsis. The existence of leprosy 
does not materially interfere with the success of 
surgical operations. I once removed an enormous 
elephantiasis of the scrotum from a confirmed leper ; 
the presence of the leprosy did not prevent sound 
healing of the extensive operation wound, the man 
making a good recovery so far as the operation was 
concerned. 

If only one tubercle or one limited lepra macula 
is present, and there have been no constitutional 
signs of a general invasion, it is advisable to excise 
freely the affected spot. 

What promised at one time to prove an important 
advance in the therapeutics of leprosy is the method 
introduced by Prof. Deycke under the name of nastin 
treatment. 

Prof. Deycke obtained from a case of nodular 
leprosy a peculiar acid-fast bacterium Streptothrix 
leproides resembling in many respects Bacillus leprce, 
but differing from the latter inasmuch as it could 
be readily cultivated. In unskimmed milk it forms 
a brilliant orange-red pellicle, which on digestion 
with ether yields a fatty substance "nastin" of 
definite chemical character. Injections of pure nastin 
in oily solution give rise in some lepers to inflam- 
matory reaction of varying degrees of intensity it 
may be violent ; in other lepers again no such 
reaction occurs. Concurrently with reaction there is 
pronounced bacteriolysis and disappearance of the 
lepra bacilli as evidenced by their losing their stain- 
ing reactions and by their disintegration. Several 
patients treated in this way improved, some appar- 
ently recovering ; but the uncertainty as to whether 
in any given case reaction might not prove of so 
v* 



650 LEPROSY [CHAP. 

violent a character as to be dangerous to life im- 
posed limitations upon the general use of the 
remedy. 

Finding that benzoyl-chloride (C 6 H 5 .CO.C1), by 
removing their fatty protective contents, rapidly de- 
prived tubercle bacilli of their " acid-fastness," he 
concluded that this substance might act similarly on 
the lepra bacillus ; and also finding that benzoyl- 
chloride was innocuous, he concluded that by combin- 
ing it with nastin the therapeutic efficiency of the 
latter might be so reinforced that it could be used in 
doses so small that violent reaction would be avoided. 
Experiment justified the conjecture, and although 
benzoyl-chloride administered alone has no therapeu- 
tic action in leprosy, given in appropriate combina- 
tion with nastin, in a large proportion of instances, 
although not in all, the results are highly satisfac- 
tory, the lepra bacilli and lepra lesions slowly or 
more rapidly disappearing. 

Prof. Deycke's hypothesis as to the mode of action 
of the combination is to the effect that the nastin 
element, having affinities with the fat of the lepra 
bacillus, acts merely as the introducer of the benzoyl- 
chloride, which is the actual bactericide. 

As the result of much experience Prof. Deycke con- 
siders that what he calls " Nastin B 1 ," in which one 
part of nastin is dissolved in forty parts of benzoyl- 
chloride, and this again in sterile olive oil, is the best 
combination, rarely, if properly administered, giving 
rise to reaction. A weaker solution, "Nastin B," 
he uses in cases of ophthalmic and nerve leprosy, 
as a special precaution against dangerous reaction. 
After the weaker preparations have been used for 
some time a stronger nastin, B 2 , may be employed. 

There are certain points in the nastin treatment 
of leprosy on which Prof. Deycke lays stress: (1) 
Reaction from excessive doses is unnecessary and 
should be avoided. (2) Not too frequent injections ; 
once a week suffices. (3) Perseverance for months 
and years, intermitting the injections for a month or 
two occasionally. 

Reports from British Guiana, where systematic 



xxxvi] NASTIN TREATMENT 651 

trial of this treatment on a large scale has recently- 
been carried out, speak favourably of the results 
up to the first six months, but subsequently the 
disease ran its usual course and further trial of a 
promising therapeutic agent was abandoned. Other 
and similar " vaccines," such as Beauchamp-Williams's 
and Rost's " leproline," are on their trial.* 

* Nastin preparations may be obtained from Messrs. A. & M. 
Zimmermann, 3, Lloyd's Avenue, London, E.C, 



CHAPTER XXXVII 
YAWS (FRAMBCESIA) 

Definition. Yaws is a contagious inoculable dis- 
ease characterized by an indefinite incubation period 
followed usually by fever, by rheumatic-like pains, 
and by the appearance of papules which generally 
develop into a fungating, encrusted, granuloniatous 
eruption. It runs a chronic course; is mostly pro- 
tective against a second attack ; is believed to be 
caused by Treponema pertenue ; is amenable to sal- 
varsan, and, to a certain extent, is influenced by 
mercury and potassium iodide. 

Geographical distribution. Yaws is widely 
diffused throughout the greater part of the tropical 
world. In certain places it is very common as in 
tropical Africa, particularly on the west coast ; in 
many of the West India Islands ; in Ceylon, where 
it is one of perhaps several diseases included under 
the term parangi ; in Fiji, where it is known as 
coko ; in Java ; in Samoa ; and in many of the islands 
of the Pacific. It is difficult to say to what extent 
it exists in India ; some deny its presence there 
altogether, but recent observations show that it does 
occur there to a limited extent ; Powell has recog- 
nized and described it as occurring in Assam. Barker 
and Gimlette have shown that the skin disease de- 
scribed by Brown under the name of purru, and 
common in parts of the Malay Peninsula, is yaws. 
Yaws occurs in China, but is rare there at all 
events on the coast. In some of the West India 
Islands, and Fiji, almost every child passes through 
an attack. In the latter, according to Daniels, those 
children who do not acquire the disease in the ordi- 
nary way are inoculated with it by their parents, who 
regard an attack of yaws as an occurrence more or 
less necessary and wholesome. Nicholls has made a 
652 



ETIOLOGY 653 

careful and admirable study of West Indian yaws. 
His inclination is to look upon parangi, coko, and 
similar Asiatic and Pacific island diseases as specifi- 
cally different from the African and West Indian 
disease. Daniels, however a most accurate observer, 
who has had extensive experience in Fiji, in British 
Guiana, and in Africa shows very clearly that in 
these places the diseases are identical. Probably the 
view that certain forms of the parangi of Ceylon are 
not yaws is likewise incorrect. 

It is impossible at the present day to settle the 
point, but it seems probable that yaws was originally 
an African disease, and, so far as America and the 
West Indies are concerned, that it was introduced by 
negro slaves. In the days of West Indian slavery 
the specific and infectious nature of yaws was 
thoroughly recognized. The planters, from econo- 
mic apart from other considerations, by instituting 
yaws-houses and similar repressive measures, took 
much trouble to keep the disease under. Since 
emancipation has permitted the West Indian negro 
to revert to some extent to the state of savagery 
from which he had partly emerged, yaws has again 
become very prevalent, and is now a principal and 
loathsome feature in the morbidity of these islands. 
Yaws is practically confined to the tropics and sub- 
tropics, and even there is absent at high altitudes. 

Etiology. Contagion and heredity. As yaws 
is highly contagious, all circumstances favouring 
contact with the subjects of the disease favour its 
occurrence. Simple skin contact does not suffice ; a 
breach of surface is necessary. Probably the virus 
is often conveyed by insect bites, or by insects acting 
as go-betweens and carrying it from a yaws sore to an 
ordinary abrasion, wound, or ulcer. Thus the disease 
often commences in a pre-existing ulcer. Cases are 
prone to originate in certain dirty houses, the virus 
from previous yaws patients seemingly impregnating 
the floors and walls of the filthy huts in which the 
latter had resided. In this way the disease may be 
acquired without direct transference from an exist- 
ing case. 



654 YAWS [CHAP. 

Yaws is neither hereditary nor congenital. A 
pregnant mother suffering from yaws does not give 
birth to a child suffering from the same disease, nor 
one which will subsequently develop yaws unless the 
virus be first introduced directly through a breach of 
surface after birth. It is not conveyed by the milk ; 
nor does a suckling suffering from yaws necessarily 
infect its nurse. 

Age, sex, occupation, race. Although two-thirds 
of the cases in the West Indies occur before puberty, 
no age is exempt. Three males are infected to every 
female attacked. Occupation has no manifest in- 
fluence. In the West Indies, Europeans, Chinese, and 
Indians catch the disease if exposed to the contagium. 

The virus. Both Pierez and Nicholls found a 
micrococcus in yaws tissue and in the exudation. 
Cultures of this micro-organism introduced into cer- 
tain animals did not give rise to the disease 

In 1905, by overstaining with Leishman's and 
Giemsa's stains, Castellani demonstrated in scrapings 
of yaws tissues the presence of an extremely delicate 
treponema, Treponema pertenue (Spirochceta pertenuis, 
S. pallidula), very like the spirocbsete of syphilis. 
Castellani's observations have been amply confirmed. 

To demonstrate the treponema, slides should be 
prepared from scrapings of an incised yaw papule 
before it has ruptured. The dried films are then 
overstained by Giemsa's or Leishman's method. The 
Burri or indian-ink method (see p. 231) provides a 
rapid and convenient means of demonstrating the 
spirochsetes as thin wavy lines on a dark background. 
They can only be seen in a living state by the dark- 
ground illumination method. A fully developed yaw 
is unsuitable, because, in consequence of its having 
been exposed to external sources of contamination, a 
variety of organisms will be present and may con- 
fuse the observer. Opinions differ with regard to 
the dimensions, presence or absence of flagella and 
undulating membrane, and other minute details ; 
suffice it to say that T. pertenue to the ordinary 
observer is morphologically indistinguishable from 
the corresponding germ of syphilis. Ranken, using 



xxxvii] SYMPTOMS 655 

dark-ground illumination, has observed the extru- 
sion of minute refractile granules which, after a 
brief interval, exhibit active rotary movements and 
which may constitute a stage in the evolution of the 
parasite. T. pertenue has been found in the spleen, 
lymphatic glands, and bone marrow, and, doubtless, 
it occurs in the blood. It is inoculable into monkeys 
and rabbits ; in the former, especially in the orang- 
outang, it gives rise to lesions similar to those in man. 

Cultivation of T. pertenue has been successfully performed 
by Noguchi in ascitic fluid containing a piece of fresh animal 
tissue such as the kidney, the whole being covered with a layer 
of sterile paraffin. This rather complicated technique has been 
simplified by the later work of Hata, who substituted horse- 
serum in which the inoculation is made through the upper 
solidified layer-. The organisms develop anaerobically in the 
lower fluid layers. To succeed in the cultivation of the patho- 
genic spirochsetes strict anaerobiosis is necessary. 

Symptoms. The initial fever. In yaws there 
is an incubation stage of very variable duration two 
weeks to six months* the appearance of the char- 
acteristic eruptions being preceded by a certain 
amount of constitutional disturbance. The intensity 
of the general symptoms varies within wide limits. 
Sometimes they are hardly perceptible, and are not 
complained of; usually there is well-marked malaise 
with rheumatic pains. Occasionally there is severe con- 
stitutional disturbance, lasting for about a week, with 
rigor, smart fever 100 to 103 F. persistent head- 
ache, pains worse at night in the long bones, joints, 
and loins, and sometimes gastric disturbance and 
diarrhoea. During the decline of these constitutional 
symptoms the eruption appears. 

Stage of furfuraceous desquamation. The skin 
becomes harsh and dry, loses its natural gloss, and 
here and there patches of light-coloured, very fine 
furfuraceous desquamation, best appreciated with the 
aid of a lens, are formed. These patches are mostly 

* Paulet, who inoculated 14 healthy persons with yaws, 
found the first lesion in from twelve to twenty days ; Charlouis, in 
28 inoculations, observed a papule at the site of inoculation after 
fourteen days. Naturally acquired yaws is reputed to have a 
longer incubation period than the inoculated disease. 



656 YAWS [CHAP. 

small and circular \ occasionally they are oval, irregu- 
lar, or form rings encircling islets of healthy skin. 
Their extent and number are very uncertain. They 
are scattered irregularly over limbs and trunk ; occa- 
sionally they may be almost confluent, the patches 
coalescing and giving rise to an appearance as if the 
entire skin had been dusted over with flour. On the 
other hand, this f urfuraceous desquamation may be so 
slight as to be overlooked. In other instances it may 
be very marked, the heaping up of desquamating 




Fig. 89. Case of yaws. (Journal of Tropical Medicine.) 

epidermic scales producing white marks, very evident 
on the dark skin of a negro or Oriental. 

This patchy, furfuraceous condition of the skin* 
not only occurs at the early stages of yaws, but 
may persist throughout the attack, or reappear as a 
fresh eruption at any period of the disease. 

The yaw (Figs. 89, 90). When the furfuraceous 
patches have been in existence for a few days,.minute 
papules appear in them. Describing these papules, 

* The furfuraceous eruption has been carefully studied by 
Nicholls. It is not mentioned by the majority of authors. 



XXXVIl] 



SYMPTOMS 



657 



Nicholls remarks that, in examining them with a 
lens, "they are seen to be apparently pushed up 
from the rete Malpighii through the horny epidermis, 
which breaks over their summits and splits in radi- 
ating lines from the centre, the necrosed segments 
curling away from the increasing papule. When 




Fig. 90. Another case of yaws. 



the papules become about a millimetre in height 
and breadth, a yellow point may be observed on the 
summits . . . consisting not of a drop of pus under 
the epidermis . . . but of a naked, cheesy-looking 
substance, which cannot be wiped away unless undue 
force be used. Frequently a hair will be observed 
issuing from this yellow substance, thereby indicating 
that the hair-follicles are the centres of the change 



658 YAWS [CHAP. 

going on." This papular eruption may persist during 
the entire attack, or it may appear at any time 
during the course of the disease. When extensive 
and occurring late, it indicates a protracted attack. 

The papule, having arrived at this stage, may 
either cease to grow, the apex becoming depressed, 
cupped, and lined with the yellow cheesy material 
alluded to ; or it may go on, increasing in size, to the 
formation of the typical yaw. In the latter case the 
lesion gradually grows into a rounded excrescence, 
the yellow material at the top widening out so as to 
form a complete cap encrusting the little tumour. 
The yaw so formed may be no larger than a split pea ; 
or it may attain the breadth of a crown-piece. The 
smaller tumours are hemispherical ; the larger are more 
flattened or even depressed at the centre, possess- 
ing everted, somewhat overhanging, rounded edges. 
Occasionally, though rarely, a big yaw may include 
an area of sound skin. Several yaws may coalesce, 
and together cover a large and irregular surface, as an 
entire cheek, a popliteal space, or the dorsum of a 
foot. In the case of these large yaws, the surface of 
the growth is apt to be irregular and fissured. The 
neighbourhood of the mouth and anus are favourite 
sites for coalescent yaws ; in such situations the 
moisture of the parts softens and removes the crust 
wholly or in part, so that the surface, in addition to 
being fissured, may be more or less bare, sodden, and 
fungoid. 

The crust which caps and encloses an uninjured 
yaw is yellowish, granular, blotched with blood-stains 
and encrusted dirt. At first the crust is somewhat 
moist, but gradually it becomes dry, brown, and 
even black. The crusts are firmly adherent, requir- 
ing some force to remove them ; a proceeding which, 
though painless, may entail a little oozing of blood. 
Deprived of its crust the little swelling is seen to be 
red in colour, and generally smooth and rounded on 
the surface. According to size, it stands out any 
thing from i to f in. above the surrounding healthy 
skin. Immediately after removal of the crust the 
exposed surface begins to pour out a pale, yellowish- 



xxxvn] SYMPTOMS 659 

grey, viscid fluid which soon becomes inspissated, 
rapidly forming a fresh cap to the yaw. Pus, unless 
as a consequence of irritation, is not, as a rule, found 
under the crust. 

Although the formation of the papules and yaws 
is attended with much itching, the yaw itself is not 
at all sensitive; the tumour may be touched, with 
acid even, without causing pain a diagnostic point 
of some importance. 

The yaw usually attains its maximum develop- 
ment in two weeks. For several weeks longer it 
remains stationary before beginning to shrink. The 
crust then thins, shrinks, darkens, separates at the 
periphery, and at last falls off, disclosing at the site 
of the former fungating mass a slightly thickened 
spot of fairly sound skin which, though pale at first, 
may subsequently become hyperpigmented. 

Ulceration. Such is the normal process of evo- 
lution and involution of a yaw. But it sometimes 
happens that the tumours, in place of becoming 
absorbed, break down and ulcerate, the ulceration, 
however, being confined to the yaw itself. In other 
instances ulceration goes deeper and extends circum- 
ferentially, giving rise to extensive sores with sub- 
sequent cicatricial contractions. Such ulcerations may 
or may not be encrusted. With the development of 
the deeper and wider forms of ulceration, the typical 
lesions of yaws may disappear for a time, or perhaps 
permanently. In the latter case the ulcers are said 
not to be infective, and do not communicate yaws ; 
they are, therefore, to be regarded rather as compli- 
cations or, it may be, sequelae. Such ulcers may 
persist for years. Ulceration, according to Nicholls, 
occurs in about 8 per cent, of cases. 

Onychia. Yaws may occur around or under a 
nail and give rise to a troublesome form of onychia. 

Foot yaws. When a yaw develops on the sole of 
a foot, in consequence of being bound down by the 
dense and thick epidermis it causes much suffering. 
Spreading laterally under the thick, leathery, and 
unyielding epidermis, it may attain a large size. 
After a time the epidermis over the growth gives way, 



660 YAWS [CHAP. 

splitting in a radiating fashion. Pressure being thus 
removed, the yaw fungates, and suffering diminishes. 

A cracked, scaly condition of the hands and feet, 
sometimes persisting for years, is not unusual in 
negroes, and must not be confounded with yaws, al- 
though not infrequently the two conditions coexist.* 

Distribution. The yaws may be scattered over 
the whole body ; or the crop may be limited to one 
or two growths ; or they may be confined to a cir- 
cumscribed region of the skin. They are commonest 
on exposed parts, on the anterior surface of the body, 
and on parts especially liable to injury, as the feet 
and legs. They are most frequently found on the 
lower extremities ; rarely on the scalp, and still 
more rarely in the axillae. They are hardly ever 
seen on mucous surfaces unless about the lips, around 
the angles of the mouth, and in the nostrils, where 
they often form clusters. 

Duration and recurrences. Yaws lasts for weeks, 
or months, or years, its duration depending on the 
general health, idiosyncrasy, hygienic conditions, and 
the treatment employed. Mild cases in healthy sub- 
jects finish in about six weeks. In other instances, 
especially in the debilitated, the disease runs on for 
months, successive crops of eruption being evolved. 
Sometimes these recurrences may stop short at the 
stage of desquamation, or at the papular stage, or 

* In the course of time the TVest Indian negroes have adopted 
a peculiar jargon a mixture of French, English, and Spanish 
to designate the various manifestations of yaws. The scaly 
patches are known in some of the islands as "pian dartres," in 
Jamaica as "yaws caeca" ; the papular stage of eruption as 
"pian gratelle"; when the papular eruption occurs as a late 
symptom it may be called "pian charaib," or "guinea-corn 
yaws." The developed yaw is sometimes known as "bouton 
pian." "Tubboes," "tubba," "crabs," "crappox," "crabes" are 
expressions applied to the painful manifestations on the soles 
of the feet. Forms of chronic dermatitis on hands and feet are 
called "dartres," "tubboe," "crabs," " dry tubboes, " or, where 
exudation goes on between cracks in soles or palms, "running 
crab yaws." A large persistent yaw, probably in many instances 
the seat of the original infection, is sometimes known as the 
"mother," or "grandmother," or "mama-pian"; smaller yaws 
as "daughter" or "granddaughter" yaws. Yaws which show 
themselves some time after the disease appears to have subsided 
are called "memba" (remember) yaws. Yaws coalescing in the 
form of a ring are called " ringworm " yaws. 



XXXVII] 



SYMPTOMS 



661 



they may proceed to the formation of typical yaws. 
The recurrences are usually preceded by feverishness, 
pains in the bones and joints ; and the successive 
crops may either be limited and partial in their dis- 
tribution, or they may be general. In Fiji, Daniels 
states, the average duration of an attack of yaws is 
about one year. 

The general health. Except during the initial 
fever, or during one of the recurring febrile relapses, 
the general health is not, as a rule, affected. Occa- 
sionally, however, there is debility and cachexia; 
or there may be enlargement and tenderness of the 
lymphatic glands. In other instances the rheumatic 
pains are a principal feature, and may be very severe. 

Persistent yaws. That yaws sometimes effects a 
permanent hold is shown by the persistency with 
which it occasionally continues to recur during many 
years. In such cases the lesion has always the 
characters of a true yaw, and cannot be regarded 
as a " secondary " or " tertiary " manifestation in 
the sense in which these terms are applied to the 
late lesions of syphilis. 

Dactylitis. Powell describes two cases, mother 
and child, in whom, concurrently, a uniform swelling 
of the proximal phalanges of both hands occurred 
during the third year of an attack of yaws. To the 
touch the bones gave the impression of being rarefied. 
Such swellings are not uncommon in yaws. 

Question of a primary sore. An interesting point 
in the symptomatology of yaws is the question of the 
occurrence of a primary sore, as in syphilis. Numa 
Rat says there is such a sore, but that it is usually 
overlooked. He describes it as a papule with a pale 
yellow material at its apex, which may remain a 
papule, or which, after seven days, may ulcerate and 
subsequently cicatrize. Other observers do not agree 
with this. They say that though yaws virus applied 
to a pre-existing ulcer may render it unhealthy-look- 
ing and cause it to fungate like an ordinary yaw, yet 
successful puncture inoculations, although they some- 
times give rise to a yaw at the point of inoculation, 
do not by any means always produce a local lesion, 



662 YAWS [CHAP. 

much less an ulcer. Formerly it was thought that the 
lower animals were not susceptible to yaws. Several 
observers, including Castellani, have now shown that 
monkeys, even of a low order, can be successfully 
inoculated. Rabbits are also susceptible to intra- 
testicular and subcutaneous inoculations (Nicholls 
and Castelli). 

Sequelae. Mention is often made of nodes, of 
gummatous - like thickenings, and of punched - out, 
serpiginous and lupoid ulcerations in connection with 
yaws. Many authorities regard all such phenomena 
as being generally the results of an independent, 
though concurrent, syphilitic or tubercular infection. 

On the other hand, the peculiar character of the 
periosteal thickenings ; the sabre-like bending of the 
tibiae as if from some process of rarefying osteitis 
often leading to spontaneous fracture ; the similar 
distortions of the bones of the forearms ; the chronic 
serpiginous ulcerations of the forearms and legs, 
which, subsequently cicatrizing, lead to constriction, 
and cause unsightly chronic oedematous swelling of 
the distal parts ; the gumma-like lumps on arms and 
legs, and even on the lips ; these morbid phenomena, 
often encountered in yaws countries, taken in con- 
junction with the nature of the parasitic cause of this 
disease, tend to the conclusion that these lesions are 
of the nature of tertiary sequelae. (Figs. 91, 92.) 
The subject requires further observation and study. 

Gangosa ; destructive ulcerous rhino-pharyngitis 
(Leys). This disease, which has been regarded by 
some as a sequel of yaws, generally commences as an 
ulcer on the soft palate. Slowly spreading, it may 
make a clean sweep of the hard palate, of the soft 
parts, cartilages and bones of the nose, sparing the 
upper lip, which is left as a bridge across a great 
chasm, the floor of which is formed by the intact 
tongue. The disease may be arrested spontaneously 
at any period of its progress and long before so 
extensive a mutilation as that described has been 
effected ; but it is always a long-standing and chronic 
affair and may linger as an indolent ulceration for 
years. As a rule, the larynx is spared ; but, although 



XXXVIl] 



GANGOSA 



663 



phonation may be retained, articulation is seriously 
impaired. 

This disease is very common in parts of the West 




Indies Dominica for example (60 cases in a popula- 
tion of 2,000, Numa Rat), Guam, where it is known 
as gangosa (1'5 per cent, of the population, Leys), 
the Carolines, Fiji, British Guiana, and, undoubtedly 



664 



YAWS 



[CHAP. 



many other parts of the tropics. I believe I have 
seen the same condition in South China. 

It occurs at any age from childhood to 80. Leys saw 
it in Guam in children of 3, 4 and 9 years respectively. 




[Photo: P. H. Bahr. 

Fig. 92. Tertiary yaws, showing tibial periosteal nodes, ulcers, and 
deformity of phalanges. 

The lesion has been attributed to leprosy, tuber- 
culosis, syphilis, and yaws. Against its being a 
leprous disease is the circumstance that it is not 
attended with any of the other phenomena of leprosy. 



xxxvii] MORBID ANATOMY 665 

Against its being of a tuberculous nature is the 
circumstance that it is confined to the tropics. 
Against its being syphilis is the practical absence of 
syphilis among the natives of Fiji, where this form 
of ulceration is particularly common. Against its 
being a sequel of yaws is the want of correspondence 
in the proportional prevalence of the two diseases ; 
for, although ulcerative rhino-pharyngitis is common 
in some places in which yaws is common, it is rare in 
other places where yaws is common, and common 
in other places where yaws is rare. For these and 
other reasons Leys has thrown out the suggestion 
that destructive rhino-pharyngitis of the tropics is 
an independent disease produced by a special micro- 
organism as yet undetected, and not, as has been 
supposed, a sequel of yaws. On the other hand, it 
may be a form of buccal leishmaniasis. 

Mortality. Although in the literature of the 
subject reference is made to deaths from yaws, yet, 
judging from the statistics collected by Nicholls, the 
mortality must be very small indeed. In 7,157 West 
Indian cases, treated in various yaws hospitals, there 
were only 185 deaths a mortality of 25-8 per thou- 
sand ; a death-rate, as Nicholls points out, less than 
the average annual death-rate in one of the islands 
Antigua. Doubtless, although yaws itself seldom 
proves directly fatal, intercurrent diseases, such as* 
sloughing phagedaena and phagedsenic ulceration, pre- 
disposed to by the skin lesions, occasionally do so. 

Morbid anatomy and pathology. No vis- 
ceral changes have been found peculiar to yaws, 
although, of course, when yaws concurs with syphilis, 
gummata, etc., may be found ; in this case the con- 
current gummata may belong to the syphilitic and 
not to the yaws infection. An important point of 
contrast in the respective morbid anatomy of yaws 
and syphilis is the absence of endarteritis in the former 
and its frequency in the latter. 

The tumours on the skin are granulomata made 
up of round or spindle-shaped cells, held together by 
a small amount of connective tissue and abundant 
blood-vessels. The focus of the circumscribed cell 



666 YAWS [CHAP. 

proliferation is the papilla, which becomes very much 
swollen, and the Malpighian layer. 

Diagnosis. A painless, insensitive, larger or 
smaller, circular, encrusted, red granulomatous ex- 
crescence occurring in the endemic district is almost 
certainly yaws. The most important point in con- 
nection with yaws, both as regards diagnosis and 
etiology, is its relation to syphilis. It has been 
held by some distinguished authorities Hutchinson, 
for example and is still maintained, that yaws 
is syphilis modified by race and climate. Certain 
features which the two diseases have in common are 
pointed to, and, doubtless, the discovery of a spirochaete 
in association with both diseases will be adduced 
in support of this contention. So far as clinical and 
microscopical evidence goes, it is decidedly in favour 
of, not to say conclusive for, regarding the two 
diseases as specifically distinct. There are many 
points of contrast in their clinical features. I may 
mention the primary sore, the infection of the foatus, 
the adenitis, the exanthem, the alopecia, the absence 
of itching, the iritis, the affection of the permanent 
teeth, the bone and eye affections, the congenital 
lesions, the polymorphism of the eruptions, the nerve 
lesions and the gummata of syphilis. All these are 
wanting in yaws. Moreover, both diseases may con- 
cur in the same individual (Powell cites two cases, 
and Charlouis two, of syphilis supervening on yaws) ; 
and antecedent syphilis certainly does not confer 
immunity as against yaws, nor antecedent yaws 
against syphilis. The serum of both diseases gives 
a positive Wassermann reaction. Monkeys inocu- 
lated with yaws are not absolutely immunized against 
syphilis, but Prowazek found under experimental 
conditions that inoculation of the spirochsete of yaws 
conveys a relative immunity to a subsequent syphi- 
litic infection, and that monkeys were less sus- 
ceptible to syphilis after a previous attack of yaws. 
Yaws may die out in a community, as in British 
Guiana (Daniels), yet syphilis remain ; yaws may be 
universal in a community, as in Fiji and Samoa, and 
yet true syphilis, whether as an acquired or a congenital 



xxxvii] TREATMENT 667 

disease, be unknown. Finally, syphilis has never 
been shown to give rise to yaws, nor yaws to syphilis ; 
neither, so far as known, has yaws been evolved 
in any community from syphilis, or appeared inde- 
pendently where the possibility of its having been 
introduced from a recognized yaws centre could be 
excluded with certainty. 

The therapeutic argument for the identity of the 
two diseases is a very fallacious one. Sulphur will 
cure scabies and pityriasis versicolor ; yet from this 
circumstance we may not conclude that these diseases 
are identical. The same may be said in respect of 
the influence of mercury and iodine on syphilis and 
on yaws. 

Prophylaxis resolves itself into the adoption 
of measures to prevent contagion. These are: the 
isolation and segregation of the affected ; the dressing 
and treatment of wounds in the hitherto unaffected ; 
the application of antiseptic ointments to yaws sores, 
so as to obviate the diffusion of germs ; the purifying 
or destruction by fire of houses or huts notoriously 
infected ; the prevention of pollution of bathing-water 
by yaws discharges. 

Treatment. All are agreed as to the propriety 
of endeavouring by good food, tonics, and occasional 
aperients to improve the general health. Most are 
agreed as to the propriety of endeavouring to procure 
a copious eruption by stimulating the functions of the 
skin by warm demulcent drinks ; by a daily warm 
bath with plenty of soap ; and, during the outcoming 
of the eruption, by such diaphoretics as liquor am- 
monise acetatis, guaiacum, etc. Confection of sulphur 
is also recommended as a suitable aperient ; it may 
be taken frequently in the early stages of the disease. 
All are agreed as to the propriety of avoiding 
everything such as chill tending to repress the 
eruption ; warm clothing is therefore indicated. 
Many use mercury, or potassium iodide, or both, 
after the eruption is fully developed. These drugs 
have undoubtedly the power of causing the eruption 
in yaws to resolve. Some practitioners rarely use 
them, or, if they use them, do so only at the latest 



668 YAWS 

stages of the disease, considering that relapses are 
more prone to occur after their too early employment. 
Mercury, owing to its proneness to cause anaemia, 
is less frequently employed than potassium iodide. 
Where the eruption is persistently squamous, or 
papular, arsenic is frequently prescribed. Some 
touch the yaws with sulphate of copper ; some apply 
nitrate-of-mercury ointment ; others, iodoform oint- 
ment ; others leave them alone, confining their local 
measures to the enforcement of cleanliness. When 
the soles of the feet are attacked, the feet ought to 
be soaked in warm water to soften the epidermis, 
which should then be cut away sufficiently to liber- 
ate the subjacent yaw. Ulceration must be treated 
on ordinary principles. During convalescence iron, 
arsenic, and quinine are indicated. 

Except where much bone destruction has taken 
place, salvarsan and, better, neo-salvarsan have a 
rapid and remarkable curative effect in yaws in 
every stage of the disease, including "gangosa." They 
are now the recognized specific treatment, and may 
be given intravenously or intramuscularly. The dose 
is 4 to 8 gr. for an adult male, proportionately less 
for females and children. The reader is referred to 
p. 243 for a description of the technique of adminis- 
tration. Alston has made the curious and inte- 
resting observation that the serum obtained from a 
blister applied to a yaws patient who has recently 
been treated with salvarsan acts, when injected sub- 
cutaneously into another yaws patient, as effectually 
as a dose of salvarsan. 

The systematic use of salvarsan in a yaws com- 
munity would, if thoroughly carried out, promptly 
get rid of the endemic, and, wherever possible, should 
be enforced. 



CHAPTER XXXVIII 
VERRUCA PERUANA 

Definition. A specific disease attended with a 
high mortality and characterized by fever, profound 
anaemia, and the development of yaws-like, fungating, 
prone-to-bleed, granulomatous growths on the skin 
and mucous membranes. 

Geographical distribution. Between the 
9th and 16th parallels of S. latitude, and at an eleva- 
tion of from 3,000 to 10,000 feet, in certain narrow 
valleys of the western slopes of the Andes, an aggra- 
vated form of a peculiar disease, locally known as 
" verruga," is endemic. 

The topical as well as the geographical range of 
verruga is singularly limited ; it is confined to certain 
hot, narrow valleys or ravines, the inhabitants of 
neighbouring places being exempt. It is said that 
the disease may be acquired in merely journeying 
through the endemic districts, more especially if the 
traveller passes the night there. 

Etiology. Although out-of-door workers are 
most liable, all ages, classes, and both sexes, including 
infants, are liable to attack. In the endemic centres 
nearly everyone sooner or later gets the disease, and 
thus acquires a considerable though not absolute 
immunity. 

The fatal experiment of Carrion, who inoculated 
himself with the virus from one of the character- 
istic sores, proved that the disease is communicable. 
Formerly it was believed that it attacked various 
domestic animals ; this has been disproved. Recently 
monkeys have been successfully inoculated. 

During the initial fever certain rod-like bodies 

are to be found in a large proportion of the red 

blood-corpuscles. They disappear when the eruption 

comes out, and are probably associated with or are an 

669 



670 VERRUGA PERUANA [CHAP. 

effect of the rapid and extreme degree of blood destruc- 
tion occurring at the early stage of the disease. A 
paratyphoid bacillus having pathogenic properties 
has been isolated at this stage; it, too, vanishes on 
the appearance of the eruption. Chlamydozoa-like 
bodies have recently been described as occurring in 
certain spindle cells in the verruga tumours. 

The disease is most prevalent during the summer 
months when the streams are in flood, the air hot, 
still, and moist, when malaria is epidemic, and when 
insect life is abundant. An insect transmitter is 
suspected, but as yet not determined. Townsend, 
who has made special studies locally on this point, 
dismisses ticks, bugs, and the ordinary human ectozoa, 
and inclines to regard a species of phlebotomus as the 
carrier. 

Pathology, A remarkable feature of this 
disease is the rapidity and extreme degree of blood- 
destruction. In bad cases the blood-count may drop 
in three or four days to 500,000 per c.mm., the picture 
being that of a pernicious anaemia. There is a marked 
polymorphonuclear leucocytosis with disappearance of 
eosinop biles ; and during the later eruptive stage an 
eosinophilia with a mononuclear leucocytosis. 

The granuloma begins as a neoplasm round the 
capillaries and resembles in its histology that of 
yaws (p. 665). 

Symptoms. The peculiar initial rheumatic-like 
pains and fever are apparently the same in character 
as those of yaws, only more severe, and, as in yaws, 
the constitutional symptoms subside on the appear- 
ance of the skin lesion a granuloma macroscopically 
as well as microscopically identical with that of yaws. 
Just as in the latter disease, the eruption may be 
sparse or abundant, discrete or confluent. As in yaws, 
individual granulomata may fail to erupt ; others may 
subside rapidly; others, again, may continue to in- 
crease, and then, after remaining stationary for a 
time, gradually wither, shrink, and drop off without 
leaving a scar. If difference there be in their clinical 
features between verruga and yaws, apparently it is 
more one of degree than of kind. 






xxxvni] SYMPTOMS TKEATMENT 671 

In verruga the initial fever may continue for 
weeks, or even for months. It is very severe in many 
instances. Often it exhibits features like those of 
a malarial infection, including intermittency, profound 
anaemia, and sometimes enlargement of the spleen 
and liver. Very probably in such cases it is the 
outcome of a double infection verruga attacking a 
malarial subject. Not infrequently in the endemic 
district a certain type of fever, believed to be verruga 
fever, proves fatal before the appearance of definite 
skin manifestations such as would justify a positive 
diagnosis. This was apparently the case with Carrion. 
The symptoms in his case closely resembled those of 
the very deadly fever referred to, which is known 
locally as Oroya fever. 

In addition to the severity of the fever and 
rheumatic pains, the Peruvian disease is remarkable 
for the tendency to spontaneous haemorrhage exhibited 
by the skin lesions. Apparently this peculiarity is 
attributable, like the haemorrhages in the affection 
known as " mountain fever," to the diminished atmo- 
spheric pressure at great altitudes ; for when the 
patients descend to the lower valleys, or to the sea- 
level, the tendency to bleeding ceases. Possibly 
the unusual vascularity of the swellings, which are 
sometimes permeated by a network of cavernous 
sinuses, also arises from the same circumstance. 

In yaws we find no mention made of the occur- 
rence of fungating granulomata in any situation but 
the skin. In verruga it would seem that the tumours 
may develop on mucous surfaces in the oesophagus, 
the stomach, intestine, bladder, uterus, and vagina. 
Hence the dysphagia a common symptom and the 
occasional occurrence of haematemesis, melaena, haemat- 
uria, and bleeding from the vagina in this disease. 
Relapses both of the fever and of the eruption may 
occur. 

Mortality. The mortality ranges from 10 to 40 
per cent, of those attacked. The risk is very much 
lessened on the appearance of the eruption. 

Treatment. Salvarsan seems to exert a specific 
influence, but its exact value has not been determined. 



672 VERRUGA PERUANA 

Cold, it is said, tends to repress the development 
of the eruption ; until this appears, fever and pain 
persist. For this reason, as well as to avoid the 
haemorrhage from the lesions when they do erupt, the 
patients should quit the heights and descend to near 
the sea-level. External haemorrhages, when they 
occur, must be treated by graduated pressure ; other- 
wise the local as well as the general treatment is the 
same as for yaws. 

Where possible, workmen in endemic districts 
should quit the locality before sunset. On a certain 
railway running through the endemic zone, on which 
the mortality from this disease was enormous, by Dr. 
Giana's advice the workmen were obliged to quit the 
locality before sunset ; the case-incidence immediately 
diminished. 

NOTE. Since the foregoing was written Strong has pub- 
lished (New York Med. Journ., March, 1914) the results of his 
investigations on this disease in Peru. He comes to the con- 
clusion that Oroya fever and verruga Peruana are two distinct 
diseases, the former produced by a special bacillus, the germ 
of the latter being still unknown. He succeeded in conveying 
verruga Peruana to monkeys. 



CHAPTER XXXIX 
ULCERATING GRANULOMA OF THE PUDENDA 

Geographical distribution. Neal, Ozzard, Con- 
yers, and Daniels describe a peculiar form of ulcer- 
ating granuloma affecting more particularly the 
pudenda in dark -skinned races. Their observations 
were made in British Guiana, and principally on 
West Indian negroes. Daniels believes that he has 
seen a similar or the same disease in Fijians. The 
"serpiginous ulceration of the genitals" referred to 
by McLeod, and more recently by other writers in 
India especially by Maitland is the same, or a 
similar disease, examples of which I can recollect 
having seen in South China. Taylor of New York 
has seen it in whites in the United States, Goldsmith 
has met with it in aboriginals in North Australia, 
and Renner in West African negroes. Doubtless, 
therefore, although hitherto little notice has been 
taken of this disease, it is widely distributed in the 
tropics. 

Etiology. There is reason for believing that the 
disease is generally, though not invariably, a venereal 
one. Maitland has seen it in the mouths of a husband 
and wife. He considers it may be inoculated on other 
forms of venereal sore, such as an ulcerating bubo, and 
that a compound sore may result. 

Spirochsetes resembling S. pallida and S. ref ring ens 
have been described by Wise as occurring in the 
ulcerations in British Guiana, but the nature of their 
relation to the disease has not been made out. 

Donovan described certain parasitic elements in 
scrapings from the deeper parts of the Madras form 
of these sores. The parasite (Fig. 93) is like a short 
bacillus with rounded ends, measuring 2 /i by 1 p. 
It occurs in mononuclear cells and in great profusion. 
The parasites are sometimes scattered irregularly 
w 673 



674 ULCERATING GRANULOMA [CHAP. 

through the protoplasm of the affected cells; more 
often they are arranged in little round clusters of 
eight or ten. Recently de Souza Araujo and others 
in Brazil have confirmed and extended Donovan's 
discovery. The Calymmatobacterium granulomatisj 
as they term the germ, is capsulated, non-motile, 
Gram-negative, non-spore-forming, does not liquefy 
gelatin nor coagulate milk. Under cultivation it is 
polymorphic, occurring as cocci, diplococci, bacilli, 
diplobacilli, and filaments, all forms possessing a 



% *y m I 




Fig. 93. Parasitic elements in ulcerating granuloma of pudenda. 

mucous capsule. It retains its virulence in experi~ 
mental animals as far at least as the hundredth sub- 
culture on gelatin. In sections of the affected tissues 
the bacteria are seen to lie both inside and between 
the cells as capsulated cocci or diplococci, in chains 
or in zooglcea masses. 

Age and sex. Ulcerating granuloma has riot been 
observed before puberty ; it has been found only after 
13 or 14, and up to 40 or 50. It occurs in both sexes, 
but particularly in women. 

Symptoms. The disease commences in the 
great majority of cases somewhere on the genitals^ 



xxxix] SYMPTOMS 675 

usually on the penis or labia minora, or on the 
groin, as an insignificant circumscribed, nodular 
thickening and elevation of the skin. The affected 
area, which on the whole is elevated above the 
surrounding healthy skin, and is covered with a 
very delicate, pinkish, easily-rubbed-off epithelium, 
excoriates readily, exposing a surface prone to bleed 
and break down, although rarely ulcerating deeply. 
The disease advances in two ways : by continuous 




TERZI. . 

Fig. 94. Ulcerating granuloma of pudenda in the male. 

eccentric peripheral extension, and by auto-infection 
of an opposing surface. In its extension it exhibits a 
predilection for warm and moist surfaces, particularly 
the folds between the scrotum and thighs, the labia, 
and the flexures of the thighs (Fig. 94). Its exten- 
sion is very slow, years elapsing before it covers a 
large area. Concurrently with peripheral extension a 
dense, contracting, uneven, readily-breaking-down scar 
forms on the surface travelled over by the coarsely 
or finely nodulated elevated new growth which con- 
stitutes the peripheral part of the diseased area. 



676 ULCERATING GRANULOMA [CHAP. 

Occasionally islands of active disease spring up in this 
scar tissue ; but it is at the margin of the implicated 
patch that the special features of the affection are 
best observed. In a case of some standing there is 
found a large area of white or irregularly pigmented, 
perhaps excoriated, unsound, contracting, folded and 
dense cicatrix surrounded by a narrow } serpiginous, 
irregular border of nodulated, somewhat raised, red, 
glazed, delicately skinned or pinkish, superficially 
ulcerated or cracked new growth. 

In the case of the female (Fig. 95) the disease may 




Fig. 95. Ulcerating granuloma of pudenda in the female. 

extend into the vagina, over the labia, and along 
the flexures of the thighs. In the male it may spread 
over the penis, involve the glans, scrotum, and upper 
part of the thighs. In either sex it may spread in 
the course of years to the pubes, over the perineum, 
and into the rectum, the recto-vaginal septum in 
the female ultimately breaking down. At times a 
profuse watery discharge exudes and even drips 
from the surface of the new growth, soiling the 
clothes, soddening the skin, and emitting a pecu- 
liarly offensive odour. In this condition the disease, 
slowly extending, continues for years, giving rise 






xxxix] HISTOLOGY DIAGNOSIS 677 

to inconvenience and perhaps seriously implicating 
the urethra, vagina, or anus, but not otherwise 
materially impairing the health. The lymphatic 
glands do not become affected. The disease con- 
tinues entirely local. Histologically this disease is 
allied to rhinoscleroma. 

Histology. On microscopical examination the 
new growth at the margins of the sore is found to 
be made up of nodules, or masses of nodules, con- 
sisting of round cells having large and, usually, 
badly staining nuclei. These cells are embedded in 
a delicate fibrous reticulum. The nodular masses are, 
for the most part, covered by epithelium, their under 
surfaces merging gradually into a thick, dense fibrous 
stroma in which small clusters of similar round cells 
are here and there embedded. The growths, though 
very vascular, contain no haemorrhages ; and there 
are no signs of suppuration or of caseation, no giant 
cells, and no tubercle bacilli. In vertical section of 
the small nodules the round-cell mass will be found to 
be wedge-shaped, the base of the wedge being towards 
the skin ; the deep-lying apex is usually pierced by a 
hair or two. The growth is found around sebaceous 
follicles, blood-vessels, lymphatics, and sudoriparous 
glands; but it is especially abundant, and most deeply 
situated, around the hair-follicles. 

Diagnosis. Malignant and syphilitic ulcera- 
tions of the groin are common enough ; the disease 
under notice, however, differs widely from these 
clinically, histologically, and therapeutically. It is 
characterized by extreme chronicity ten or more 
years ; by absence of cachexia or of any tendency 
to cause death ; by non-implication of the lymphatic 
system, and by non-amenability to mercury and 
iodide of potassium. The disease which it most re- 
sembles is lupus vulgaris. From this it differs inas- 
much as it is practically confined to the pudendal 
region ; affects mucous as well as cutaneous surfaces ; 
tends to follow in its extension the folds of the skin ; 
is not associated with the tubercle bacillus, giant 
cells, caseation, or other evidences of tuberculous 
disease. 



678 ULCERATING GRANULOMA 

Treatment. Scraping and caustics, including 
the actual cautery, have been freely employed ; but, 
although some improvement may be effected by these 
means, new nodules almost invariably spring up in 
the resulting cicatrix. Until recently complete ex- 
cision, where practicable, offered the best chance of 
permanent cure; of course, such a proceeding had to be 
undertaken before large areas and important passages 
had become involved. 

Judging from its relatively superficial nature and 
close resemblance to lupus, it seemed probable that 
ulcerating granuloma might prove amenable to some 
form of radiotherapy. This is actually the case, and 
X-rays are now regularly and successfully employed 
in Madras in the treatment of the disease. Of 37 
cases treated in this way in Madras Hospital in 1908 
all proved successful within an average period of two 
months. In three of the cases which could be followed 
up there was no recurrence four months after their 
discharge. 

Treatment by intravenous injections of tartar 
emetic, introduced by Aragua and Vianna in 1913, 
has proved remarkably successful. Improvement 
invariably sets in, and, although in a small proportion 
of cases relapse occurs, in the vast majority the cure 
is radical. The initial dose should be 5 c.c. of 1 -per- 
cent, solution in normal saline, cautiously increased to 
10 or 12 c.c. given daily or every second day. At the 
same time the sore should be dressed twice daily 
with compresses soaked in the 1-per-cent. solution, 
diluted if necessary (de Souza Araujo). The tartar 
emetic solution may be combined with or sup- 
plemented by the X-rays. 



Section V. ANIMAL PARASITES AND 

ASSOCIATED DISEASES 

CHAPTER XL 

I. PARASITES OF THE CIRCULATORY AND 
LYMPHATIC SYSTEMS 

FILARIASIS 

History. Our knowledge of this subject dates 
from the discovery by Demarquay, in 1863, of a 
larval nematode microfilaria bancrofti (Plate X.) 
in the milky fluid from a case of chylous dropsy of 
the tunica vaginalis. Later, in 1866, Wiicherer found 
the same organism in the urine of a number of 
cases of chyluria. In 1870 Lewis made a similar 
observation in India, and in 1872 discovered that 
the blood of man was the normal habitat of this 
larval parasite, which he named, accordingly, Filaria 
sanguinis hominis. Four years later Bancroft, in 
Brisbane (Queensland), discovered the adult form, 
and Cobbold named it Filaria bancrofti. Since that 
time the subject has rapidly expanded, and its great 
practical importance in tropical pathology is now 
recognized. 

Nomenclature of the parasites. I have pointed out 
that Lewis's microfilaria* is not the only blood-worm 
in man, and that the human circulation is the habitat 
of the larvae of no fewer than five, possibly of six 
or even more, distinct species of filarise. In conse- 
quence of this discovery, it was deemed advisable to 
modify the original name of Lewis's filaria. This I 

* The term microjilaria has been suggested by Le Dantec 
to designate the larval forms of the various nematodes whose 
young circulate in the blood. I adopt it as being a convenient 
expression. 

679 



680 



FILARIASIS 



[CHAP. 



proposed to call Filaria nocturna; but as, in accord- 
ance with the rules of zoological nomenclature, pre- 
cedence must be given to the name previously sug- 
gested by Cobbold for the adult form, I propose to 
call the larval form microfilaria bancrofti (Fig. 96, a). 
The other filarise of the blood I named F. diurna 




Fig. 96. (a) Microfilaria bancrofti, x 300 ; (b) microfilaria loa, Africa, x 300 ; 
(c) microfilaria demarquaii, St. Vincent, x 300 ; (d) microfllaria ozzardi 
and microfilaria perstans, British Guiana, x 300 ; (e) microfilaria 
perstans, Africa, x 300 

(mf. loa), Fig. 96, b ; F. demarquaii (mf. demarquaii], 
Fig. 96, c; F. ozzardi (mf. ozzardi), Fig. 96, d (a 
doubtful species) ; F. perstans (mf. perstans), Fig. 96, e; 
and F. magalhaesi, after its describer. (Plate X.) 

Their pathological importance. Only one of these 
parasites, so far as we know at present, appears to 




3 



TERZ/ 



Mtcrofilariee of the blood. 
1, Mf. bancrof ti ; 2 mf. perstans ; 3, mf. loa ; 4, mf. demarquaii. 

PLATE X. 



XL] FILARIA BANCROFTI 681 

have important pathological bearings Filaria ban- 
crofti, which, in its adult stage, inhabits the lymphatics 
of man. As regards the others, with the exception of 
F. loa, we have no knowledge of any serious patho- 
logical significance they may possess. There can be 
no question of the importance in tropical pathology 
of F. bancrofti ; there is abundant reason to believe 
that it is the cause of endemic chyluria, of various 
forms of lymphatic varix, and of other obscure tropi- 
cal diseases, including, probably, elephantiasis. 

FILARIA BANCROFTI (Cobbold, 1877). 

Synonyms. Filaria sanguinis hominis ; F. nocturna ; 
F. wuchereri. 

Geographical distribution and preval- 
ence* The geographical distribution of Filaria 
bancrofti is very extensive. It has been found 
as an indigenous parasite in almost every country 
throughout the tropical and sub-tropical world, as 
far north as Spain in Europe and Charleston in 
the United States of America, and as far south 
as Brisbane in Australia. In many places South 
China, for example quite 10 per cent., and in other 
places half of the population harbour it. I have 
ascertained that it is probable that one-third of 
the inhabitants of at least one district in India 
Cochin carry blood filarise. I also find that in some 
of the South Sea Islands Samoa, for example fully 
one-half of the people are affected in this way. Thorpe 
has shown that in the Friendly Islands 32 per cent, 
of the people harbour this filaria. We have similar 
testimony as to the great frequency of the parasite 
in Madras from Maitland and others, in Demerara 
from Daniels, in several of the West India Islands 
from Low, in West Africa from Annett, Button, 
and Prout. Doubtless, if diligently and systemati- 
cally sought for, it could be found in most tropical 
countries. 

Demonstration of blood microfilarieB. 

Whoever would investigate the subject of filariasis 

will find that, in order practically to comprehend the 

subject and to provide himself with abundant material 

w* 



682 FILARIASIS [CHAP. 

for observation, it is advisable to make systematic 
examination of the blood of the inhabitants of some 
district in which filariasis is endemic. If this be 
done, the observer is sure to come across, sooner or 
later, cases in which micrqfilaria bancrofti abounds, 
and also of the diseases to which it gives rise. 

Technique. I recommend the following procedure as likely 
to supply the investigator not only with material, but also 
with much useful information. Let him visit, late in the 
evening, some hospital, or prison, or other establishment where 
he can have an opportunity of examining the inmates, and let 
him procure slides of the blood of, say, 100 individuals. The 
slides are conveniently prepared by pricking the finger of each 
person in turn, and transferring large drops of the blood so 
obtained to ordinary microscope slips by simply dabbing the 
centre of the slip on the blood. The blood is then spread out 
with a needle so as to cover in a moderately thin film about a 
square inch of one surface of each slip. Each slip, so soon as 
the blood is spread, should be laid on its uncharged surface on 
a smooth, level surface until dry ; it is then labelled and put 
aside. One preparation of this description may be made from 
each person, who should be selected simply as a representa- 
tive of the general population, and therefore irrespectively of 
his being physically sound, or of his being the subject of any 
particular type of disease. 

The slides may be examined in various ways, either at once 
or, if more convenient, weeks or months afterwards ; if kept 
dry and away from cockroaches, ants, etc., they do not spoil. 
A convenient plan is to dip the slides, without previous 
fixing, in a weak solution of fuchsin about three or four 
drops or more of the saturated alcoholic solution to the ounce 
of water. They are left in the stain for about an hour, and 
then examined wet and without cover-glass. If the slides 
are old, they may stain too deeply ; in this case they may be 
partially decolorized in weak acetic acid two or three drops 
to the ounce of water and afterwards washed. Recent slides, 
if placed in water for a few minutes until the haemoglobin is 
discharged, show the microfilarise very well ; it is advisable, 
however, for the novice at this sort of work to use, in the first 
instance, the fuchsin method described above. 

Another plan is to fix the blood-film with alcohol, and 
then to stain by running on a few drops of saturated watery 
solution of methylene blue, washing off the superfluous stain 
after half a minute, and, if necessary, decolorizing with weak 
acetic acid and washing ; the wet slide is then examined with the 
microscope. Or, without previous fixing with alcohol, the slide, 
after it has dried, may be dipped for a few seconds in dis- 
tilled water so as to wash out the haemoglobin, dried, and 
then, with or without fixing, stained with methylene blue, 
logwood, or other suitable stain. 



XL] EXAMINATION OF BLOOD 683 

An inch or half -inch objective and a mechanical stage 
with a parallel movement will enable the investigator to 
pass rapidly in review the whole of the blood on the slide. 
In unfixed slides, if microfilariaa are present, they will be de- 
tected readily ; the haemoglobin of the blood corpuscles being 
dissolved out by the watery stain, the nuclei of the white 
blood-corpuscles and any microfilarise that may be present 
are the only coloured objects visible on the slide, and there- 
fore at once catch the eye. 

In any district in which the filaria is moderately common, 
out of 100 slides prepared in this way from as many individuals, 
probably eight or ten will be found to contain the parasite. 
When microfilariae have been detected, the persons from whom 
the parasite-bearing slides came may be used afterwards as a 
source of supply for further examinations and study. 

Demonstration of living microfilarice. When it is desired to 
study the living microfilaria, all that is necessary is to make 
three or four ordinary wet preparations of the blood of a filaria- 
infected person making them during the evening or night, 
and ringing the cover-glasses with vaseline so as to prevent the 
slides from becoming dry. In such preparations, if kept cool, 
the microfilariae remain alive for a week, or even longer, and 
can readily be detected by their movements, an inch or half- 
inch objective being used in the first instance as a searcher. 

Permanent preparations. Permanent preparations may be 
made by fixing very thin films of blood with alcohol or heat, 
staining with methylene blue, eosin, etc., and mounting in 
xylol balsam. It is generally advisable before fixing to wash 
out the hemoglobin with water or very weak acetic acid. Log- 
wood is perhaps the best stain ; it brings out the sheath very 
distinctly, and picks out the nuclei. Double staining with 
eosin and logwood shows very well the structure of the 
musculo-cutaneous layer of the worm, in addition to other 
anatomical details. 

Description of larval form. Examined in 
fresh blood, microfilaria bancrofti (Fig. 97) is seen to be a 
minute, transparent, colourless, snake-like organism, which, 
without materially changing its position on the slide, wriggles 
about in a state of great activity, constantly agitating and 
displacing the corpuscles in its neighbourhood. At first the 
movements are so active that the anatomical features of the 
microfilaria cannot be made out. In the course of a few hours 
the movement slows down, and then one can see that the little 
worm is shaped like a snake or an eel ; that is to say, that it is 
a long, slender, cylindrical organism, having one extremity 
abruptly rounded off, and the other for about one-fifth of the 
entire length gradually tapered to a fine point. On measure- 
ment, it is found to be a little over or under 0'3 mm. in length 
by 0-008-0*011 mm. in diameter about the diameter of a red 
blood-corpuscle. 

When examined with a low power, it appears to be structure- 
less ; with a high power a certain amount of structure can, on 



684 



FILARIASIS 



[CHAP. 



close scrutiny, be made out. In the first place, it can be seen 
that the entire animal is enclosed in an exceedingly delicate, 
limp, structureless sack, in which it moves backwards and 
forwards (Fig. 97, a). This sack, or " sheath," as it is generally 
called, although closely applied to the body, is considerably 
longer than the worm it encloses ; so that that part of the sack 




Fig. 97. Anatomy of mf. bancrofti. 
a a, Sheath ; b, central viscus ; c, V spot ; d, tail spot. 

which for the time being is not occupied is collapsed and trails 
after the head, or tail, or both, as the case may be. It can be 
seen also that, about the posterior part of the middle third 
of the parasite, there is what appears to be an irregular 
aggregation of granular material which, by suitable staining, 
can be shown to be a viscus of some sort (Fig. 97, b) . This organ 




ttilffilll 



*5k #. & 



linilill 




TERZI 

Distinguishing features between mf. bancrofti and mf. 
loa, in stained specimens. 

Attitudes (1) of mf. banerofti. (2) of mf. loa ; heads (3) of mf. bancrofti, 
(4) of mf. loa ; tails (5) of mf. bancrofti, (6) of mf. loa. 

PLATE XL 



XL] LARVAL FORM 685 

runs for some distance along the axis of the worm. Further, 
if a high power be used, a closely set, very delicate transverse 
striation can be detected in the musculo-cutaneous layer 
throughout the entire length of the animal. Besides this, if 
carefully looked for at a point about one-fifth of the entire 
length of the organism backwards from the head end, a 
shining, triangular V-shaped patch (Fig. 97, c) is always visible. 
What may be this V spot is brought out by very light staining 
with dilute logwood. The dye brings out yet another spot 
(Fig. 97, d), similar to the preceding, though very much smaller ; 
this second spot is situated a short distance from the end of the 
tail. The former I have designated the " V spot," the latter 
the " tail spot." These spots are probably connected with 
development, the V spot being the rudiment of the future 
water-vascular system, the tail spot that of the anus or 
cloaca and posterior part of the alimentary canal. The spots 
(Fig. 97, c, d) are not stained by strong logwood or by the aniline 
dyes. Staining with logwood also shows that the body of the 
little animal is principally composed of a column of closely 
packed, exceedingly minute cells enclosed in a transversely 
striated musculo-cutaneous cylinder (Fig. 97) ; at all events, 
many nuclei are thereby "rendered visible. Low has pointed out 
to me that the break seen in all stained specimens in the central 
column of nuclei occurs at a point slightly anterior to the V spot. 
This break can only be recognized in stained preparations. 

Rodenwaldt and Fiilleborn, by careful study of specially 
stained specimens, have further elucidated the histology of 
the microfilaria, which is fully illustrated in Figs. 98 and*128 
borrowed from Fiilleborn, special attention being directed to the 
excretory and genital cells and substances in the rudimentary 
intestinal canal.* (See also Plate XI.) 

When the movements of the living microfilariae have 
almost ceased, by careful focusing it can be seen that the 
head end is constantly being covered and uncovered by a six- 
lipped or hooked and very delicate prepuce ; and, moreover, 
one can sometimes see a short fang of extreme tenuity, based 
apparently on a highly retractile granule, suddenly shot out 
from the uncovered extreme cephalic end, and as suddenly 
retracted (Fig. 99 A, c, d). -* 

Filarial periodicity. A singular feature in 
the life of the microfilaria is what is known as 
" filarial periodicity." 

* Bodenwaldt's method of vital staining with neutral red and 
azur II. is serviceable for demonstrating finer points of structure 
and morphological differences between different species. A large 
drop of blood is covered with a cover-slip and allowed to stand till 
the red blood-corpuscles have separated into rouleaux. A piece 
of thick blotting-paper is placed at the edge, and a dilute solution 
of the stain in 9-per-cent, normal saline allowed to flow through. 
By these means the blood corpuscles are removed and the micro- 
filariae adhere to the cover-glass, becoming stained while still alive 
or freshly dead. 



686 FILAEIASIS [CHAP. 

If under normal conditions of health and habit 
the blood be examined during the day, the parasite is 
rarely seen, or, if it be seen, only one or two specimens 
at most are encountered in a slide. It will be found, 
however, that as evening approaches, commencing 
about five or six o'clock, the microfilarise begin to enter 
the peripheral circulation in gradually increasing num- 
bers. The swarm goes on increasing until about 
midnight, at which time it is no unusual thing to find 




MICROFILARIA BANCROFTL 

Fig. 98. Minute anatomy of a microfilaria, and differential points of 
structure between mf. loa and mf. bancrofti. (After Fulleborn.) 

N., Nerve ring (ant. break in cell column); A., ant. verot (exc. pore); Ex.C., 
excretory cell; C.Q., granular mass (or Innenkorper) ; Q. 1-4, "genital 
cells"; P., posterior or tail spot ; M., granules in mouth cavity, T., gran- 
ules in tail; Sh., sheath. 



as many as three hundred, or even six hundred, 
in every drop of blood; so that, assuming that the 
parasites are evenly distributed throughout the circu- 
lation, it may be inferred that as many as forty or fifty 
millions are simultaneously circulating in the blood- 
vessels. After midnight the numbers begin gradually 
to decrease ; by eight or nine o'clock in the morning 
the microfilarise have disappeared from the peripheral 



XL] 



FILARIAL PERIODICITY 



687 



blood for the day. This nocturnal periodicity is, under 
normal conditions, maintained with the utmost regu- 
larity for years. Should, however, as Mackenzie has 
shown, a filarial subject be made to sleep during the 
day and remain awake at night, the periodicity is 
reversed ; that is to say, the parasites come into the 
blood during the day and disappear from it during 
the night. It cannot be the sleeping state, as some 
have conjectured, that brings about this periodicity ; 
for the ingress of the microfilarise into the peripheral 
blood commences three or four hours before the 
usual time for sleep, and the egress several hours 
before sleep is concluded, and this egress is not 




Fig. 99. Structure of head end of mf. perstans (a, fc), and of 
mf. bancrofti (c, d). 

complete until several hours after the usual time 
of waking. This night swarming of the larvae of 
F. bancrofti in the peripheral circulation seems to 
be an adaptation correlated to the life-habits of its 
liberating agent, the mosquito, Culex fatigans, its 
usual intermediary host. 

Some years ago I had an opportunity of ascer- 
taining that during their diurnal temporary absence 
from the peripheral circulation the microfilarise retire 
principally to the larger arteries and to the lungs, 
where, during the day, they may be found in enor- 
mous numbers. 

The patient on whom this observation was made was 
the subject of lymph scrotum and varicose groin glands. 
His blood contained large numbers of embryo nlariae which 



688 



FILARIASIS 



[CHAP. 



exhibited the anatomical features and periodicity character- 
istic of microjilaria bancrofti. One morning he committed 
suicide by swallowing a large quantity of dilute hydrocyanic 
acid. Death was almost instantaneous. At the post-mortem 
examination, made six hours later, a huge lymphatic varix 
was found occupying the pelvis and back part of the abdominal 
cavity. In the dilated lymphatic vessels many adult filariaa 
F. bancrofti were found. The distribution of the micro- 
filarias was studied by counting them in drops of blood ex- 
pressed from the various organs, and also in sections. The 
result is summarized in the following tables : 



ENUMERATION OF MICROFILARI.E IN A DROP OF BLOOD 
EXPRESSED FROM THE FOLLOWING ORGANS 



Organ 


No. of 
slides 


Aggregate No. 
of microfllariae 


Average per 
slide 


Liver 


3 


2 


a 


Spleen 


3 


3 


]* 


Brachial vense comites 
Bone marrow 
Muscle of heart 
Carotid artery 
Lung . . .... 


4 
1 
3 
1 

10 


111 


365 
612 
6 751 


28 

122 
612 
675 











ENUMERATION OF MICROFILARI^E IN SECTIONS OF THE 
FOLLOWING ORGANS 



Organ 


No. of 
sections 


Aggregate No. 
of microfllariae 


Average per 
section 


Liver 


10 


3 


0-3 


Spleen 


4 





o-o 


Kidney 


8 


13 


1-6 


Brain 


4 


4 


1-0 


Muscle (voluntary) 
Heart muscle 


3 
4 


2 
68 


0'33 
17-0 


Lung 


6 


301 


50-16 


Lobe of ear 


4 


1 


0-25 


Scrotum 


4 





o-o 



In the lung sections (Fig. 100) the microfilariae lay out- 
stretched or variously coiled in the vessels, large and small. 
In the heart- muscle they lay along the capillaries between the 
fibres ; in the kidneys they seemed specially to affect the Mal- 
pighian tufts ; a very few were found in the capillaries of the 
brain; vast numbers were found in smears from the inner 
surface of the carotid arteries. The preparations afforded 
no explanation as to how the microfilariae contrive to main- 
tain their position in the blood current, or as to the forces 



XL] NON-PERIODIC MICROFILARI.E 689 

determining their peculiar distribution. Their absence from 
the liver and spleen is a remarkable fact. 

Since this was written they have been found in the spleen 
tissue by other observers. The capillaries of the lung appear 
to be the favourite habitat of microfilarise. Microfilaria immitis, 
mf. perstans, and the non-periodic Fijian microfilariae have 
been found in greatest abundance in this situation. 

Won - periodic microfilaria bancrofti. 

Until recently it was believed that, in natural con- 
ditions of health and habit on the part of the human 




Fig. 100. Section of lung showing microfilariae in the blood-vessels. 
(From a microphotograph by Mr. Spitta.) 



host, nocturnal periodicity was uniformly observed by 
the microfilaria of Filaria bancrofti at all times and 
in any country. Many years ago Thorpe remarked 
that in Tonga and Fiji the filaria could be found 
often in great abundance in the blood during the 
daytime; and in 1906 Ashburn and Craig found 
a microfilaria in the Philippines which showed no 
periodicity, and which these authors, relying on this 
feature, considered a distinct species and named 



600 MLARIASIS [CHAP. 

F. philippinensis. Wilson, in 1909, after a sys- 
tematic study of the point in a considerable number 
of cases in Fiji, also considered that the local filaria 
was non-periodic an observation amply confirmed 
by Bahr in 1910. Similarly, Fiilleborn found that 
the micron' laria of Samoa showed no periodicity. 
Strange to say, the fa' laria of neighbouring islands in 
the Pacific namely, the Solomons, New Guinea, and 
the Bismarck Archipelago are strictly periodic in 
their blood appearances. 

Bahr has shown that the filaria of Indian immi- 
grants who had acquired their filarial infections in 
India retain their periodic habits during at least 
three years of residence in Fiji, and that if an Indian 
or a Solomon Islander acquires the infection in Fiji 
the microfilarise are non-periodic in habit. Connal 
and Thiroux, in a proportion of instances of filarial 
infection in West Africa, have found the microfilarise 
to be non-periodic,* whilst in other instances they 
exhibit the nocturnal habit just as those* of India, 
China, and America are known to do. 

As an explanation of this striking anomaly it 
has been suggested that the non-periodic microfilaria 
is the progeny of a parent worm specifically distinct 
from F. bancrofti; but Leiper has failed to find any 
difference between the Fijian mature worm and the 
F. bancrofti of India, China, and South America ; and 
Fiilleborn and Bahr, after minute study and com- 
parison of the histology of the microfilarise from those 
countries, find that they are identical in every respect. 
It may be, as Bahr suggests, that the non-periodic 
habit of the Pacific microfilaria is a partial adaptation 
to the day habit of its usual intermediary in Fiji 
Stegomyia pseudoscutellaris. (Plate XII.) 

The subject of filarial periodicity, especially as 
regards the blood worms of the Pacific islands and 
West Africa, requires further study. 

The mosquito the intermediary host of 
Filaria bancrofti. Should the" females of certain 

* I have had an opportunity of examining the day and 
night blood of a filariated native of Northern Nigeria. In this 
case the periodicity was definitely nocturnal. 




M . 
o *"* 

i e 



XL] THE FILARIATED MOSQUITO 691 

species of mosquito * which have fed on the blood of 
a filaria-infested individual be examined immediately 
after feeding, the blood contained in the stomach 
of the insects will be found to harbour large num- 
bers of living microfilarise. If one of these mosquitoes 
be examined three or four hours after it has similarly 
fed, it will be found that the blood corpuscles have 
in great measure parted with their haemoglobin, and 
that the blood plasma 
in consequence of this 
and of dehydration 
has become thickened, 
although not coagu- 
lated. If attention be 
directed to the micro- 
filarise in the thick- 
ened blood, it will be 
seen that many of 
them are actively en- 
gaged in endeavouring 
to escape from their 
sheaths. The diffused 
haemoglobin has so 
thickened the blood 
plasma that it has 
become viscid, and 
holds, as it were, the 
sheath. This change 
in the viscosity of 
the blood seems to 
prompt the micro- 
tilarise to endeavour 
to escape from their 

sheaths. They become restless, as if excited. Alter- 
nately retiring towards the tail end and then rushing 
forward to the head end of the sheath, the imprisoned 
parasite butts violently against the latter in frantic 

* Several species of mosquitoes may subserve F. bancrofti, 
viz. : Culex fatigana, Mansonia uniformis and titillans, Anopheles 
maculipennis, Myzomyia rossii, Myzorhynchus nigerrimus, minutus, 
&nd.funestus, Pyretophorus costahs, Cellia argyrotarsis, Stegomyia 
pseudoscutellaris (Stegomyia fasciata probably occasionally). Culex 
fatigans is the first in which it was found. 




Fig. 101. Filarial ecdysi 



FILARIASIS [CHAP. 

efforts to escape. After a time, the majority succeed 
in effecting a breach and in wriggling themselves free 
from the sheaths which had hitherto enclosed them 
(Fig. 101).* The microfilaria now swims free in 
the blood, the character of its movements once more 
undergoing a remarkable change. Hitherto, though 
active enough in wriggling about, the parasite did 
not materially change its position on the slide ; but 




Fig. 102. Section of thoracic muscles of mosquito, showing microfilariae 
between the fibres : first day after the insect has fed on a filariated 
patient. (From a microphotograph by Mr. Spitta.) 

now, having become free, it moves about from place 
to place locomotes, in fact. If we dissect a mos- 

* This casting of, its sheath by the microfilaria can be induced in 
ordinary blood slides by chilling them on ice, or by other- 
wise bringing about the diffusion of the haemoglobin. The fol- 
lowing method is usually successful : King with vaseline the 
cover-glasses of several ordinary wet preparations of finger blood 
obtained at night from a filarial patient ; wrap the preparations 
separately in filter paper and lay them, enclosed in a watertight 
tin box, on a block of ice for six or eight hours say overnight. 
Next morning examine them with the microscope. It will be 
found, as the chilled slides warm up, that wherever on the slides 
the haemoglobin has become diffused and the blood laky, the 
microfilarise, as they gradually revive from the chilling, begin to 
endeavour to break through their sheaths. By evening most of 
them have effected this, and their empty sheaths can be seen lying 
scattered about in the viscid blood. The blood must not be frozen. 



XL] THE FILARIATED MOSQUITO 693 

quito at a somewhat later period after feeding, it 
will be found that the stomach of the insect, though 
still full of blood, contains very few microfilarise, 
although their empty sheaths can be seen in abund- 
ance. If, however, we break up with needles the 
thorax of the insect and tease out in normal salt 
solution the muscular tissue, we shall find that 
the microfilarise, after discarding their sheaths, have 




Fig. 103. Section of thoracic muscles of mosquito seven days after it had 
fed on a filariated patient. (From a microphotograph by Mr. Spitta.) 

quitted the stomach and entered the thoracic muscles 
of the insect, among the fibres of which they are 
now moving languidly. (Figs. 102-8.) By a course 
of serial dissections of filariated mosquitoes we can 
ascertain that in the thorax of the insect the para- 
site enters on a metamorphosis which takes from 
twelve to twenty days (longer or shorter, accord- 
ing to atmospheric temperature) to complete a 
metamorphosis eventuating in the formation of a 
mouth, of an alimentary canal, and of a peculiar 
trilobed caudal end, as well as in a relatively 



694 FILAKIASIS [CHAP. 

enormous increase in the size (to T * F in.) and activity 
of the young parasite. The filarise now quit the 
thorax. 

A few find their way to the abdomen, where, in 
properly prepared sections, they may occasionally be 
seen in the tissues around the stomach, and even 
among the eggs at the posterior part of the abdomen. 
The vast majority pass forwards by the prothorax 
and neck, and, entering the head, coil themselves up 




Fig. 104.- Section of thoracic muscles of mosquito about twelve days after 
it had fed on a filariated patient. (From a microphotograph by Mr, 
Spitta.) 

close to the base of the proboscis and beneath the 
pharynx and under-surface of the cephalic ganglia. 
Low, in sections prepared at the London School of 
Tropical Medicine from filariated mosquitoes sent 
to me by Bancroft of Australia, has shown that 
the filaria in its future progress finds its way into 
the proboscis; an observation which has been con- 
firmed by James in India, Annett and Button 
in West Africa, Bahr in Fiji, and others elsewhere. 



XL] THE FILARIATED MOSQUITO 695 

As pointed out by Grassi, its exact position here is 
the interior of the labium (Fig. 107, a). Apparently 
the filarise seek to emerge (for such must be their 
object in entering the proboscis) in pairs ; at all 
events, in those sections which I have examined, 
two worms were in each instance found together, 
their heads abreast of each other and close to the 
termination of the labium in the labella. As many 




Fig. 105. Larval filariae (Dirofilaria immitis) leaving proboscis of mos- 
quito and burrowing through the skin. (Partly diagrammatic, after 
Fiilleborn.) 

'as eight have been found packed together in this 
situation. 

The parasites remain in this position awaiting an 
opportunity to enter a warm-blooded vertebrate host 
when the mosquito next feeds on such. This they 
appear to do by penetrating the thin membrane that 
unites the labella to the tip of the proboscis, and 
so passing on to the surface of the skin, which they 
penetrate in the neighbourhood of the puncture made 



696 FILARIASIS [CHAP. 

by the mosquito * (Fiilleborn, Dirofilaria immitis ; 
Bahr, Filaria bancrojti) (Fig. 105); they do not enter 
through the mosquito-made wound, as formerly con- 
jectured, but near it. Apparently the filarise in some 
instances can discriminate between flesh and vege- 
table, for in mosquitoes fed on bananas the parasites 




Fig. 106. Section of mosquito about sixteen days after it had fed on a 
filariated patient. The filaria has escaped from the thoracic muscles. 
(From a microphotograph by Mr. Spitta.) 

had not been deceived into passing into so inhospitable 
a medium : up to forty days after the insect was 

* Annett and Dutton pointed out that there is a weak point 
in the chitinous skeleton of the labium just where the labella 
are jointed on, and suggested that it is at this weak point the 
parasites escape. Bancroft confirmed this suggestion by showing 
that the filaria} enclosed within the labium will escape readily at 
this point under the least pressure. N"oe also, in a more recent 
paper, agrees with Annett and Dutton and rejects his former 
hypothesis (held in common with Grassi) to the effect that the 
fiiarise escape through a rupture in the contiguity of the labium 
when it is buckled up during haustellation. Noe satisfied him- 
self by numerous experiments that the fiiarise invariably die when 
extruded at the seat of the bend. Finally, Lebredo, by actual 
experiment, proved that the filarise escape in this way. He placed 
living mosquitoes on slides, irrigated them with a weak saline 



XL] TRANSMISSION 697 

infected, and after many meals of banana, they could 
still be found coiled up in the head or stretched out 
in the labium. Probably heat and moisture play a 
part in this respect, as has been shown to be the case 
by Fiilleborn. 




Fig. 107. F. bancrofti in head and proboscis of mosquito. 

a, a, a.FilarisB; b, labium; c, labrum; d, base of hypopharynx ; e, duct of 
yeneno-salivary gland ; /, /, cephalic ganglia ; g, g, eye ; h, oesophagus ; 
i, pharyngeal muscle. 

These observations prove that, like the malaria 
parasite, the filaria is introduced into its human 

solution, and placed them on the stage of the microscope. He 
separated the various parts of the proboscis by a slight pressure so as 
to observe more clearly, and placed the flame of a Bunsen burner 
close to the slide. He noticed that the filariae moved violently 
within the labium when the liquid in which the mosquito was 
bathed attained a higher temperature. Finally, one managed to 
pierce its way through at the tip of the labium, and was soon 
followed by others. He noticed the escape of five filariae within a 
minute. Sometimes two passed simultaneously. Too high a 
temperature killed both larvae and mosqxiito. A fall of tempera- 
ture arrested the process. 



698 FILARIASIS [CHAP. 

definitive host by mosquito bite. Whether it may 
obtain an entrance by any other channel or medium 
it would be hard to prove and rash to deny. That 
the young filarise can live in water for a time (about 
seven hours) is certain ; it is conceivable that some 
of them, such as those which at the completion of 
their stage of development in the mosquito find their 
way into the abdomen of the insect, may escape into 
water when the mosquito lays her eggs or dies.* 

Technique. Mr. Max Colquhoun made for me beautiful 
sections illustrating the metamorphosis of the filaria in mos- 
quito by the following technique. The insects, preserved in 
glycerin, were soaked in dilute acetic acid 5 per cent, for one 
day only ; then in formalin 50 per cent., water 50 per cent., for 
one day ; next in absolute alcohol for one day ; absolute alcohol 
and ether, equal parts, one day ; finally, in celloidin for one day. 
They were then sectioned, placed in strong haematoxylin for 
two hours, decolorized in acid, hydrochloric 1 per cent, and 
alcohol, washed in water, passed through aniline oil, xylol, and 
mounted in xylol balsam. Paraflin sections are not a success. 

In working with fresh mosquitoes, all that is necessary is 
to tease up the thorax of the insect with needles in normal 
salt solution, and, after removing the coarse fragments of the 
integuments of the mosquito, apply a cover-glass and place 
under an inch objective. The filariae are readily detected. 
If the slide is dried, fixed, and stained with a watery solution 
of some aniline dye or with logwood, and mounted in xylol 
balsam, beautiful permanent preparations will be obtained. 

* In my original observations on this subject in 1879 and 1883 
(Trans. LinneanSoc., 1883) I supposed that filarial metamorphosis, 
so far as the mosquito was concerned, is completed in from six 
to seven days. This I now believe was too short an estimate. 
Bancroft (Journ. of Trop. Med., 1899) has since shown that it is 
necessary to feed the experimental mosquito (at all events, C. 
fatigans), so as to keep it alive for at least sixteen days, to obtain 
the final stages of the metamorphosis. (Fig. 106. ) I have little doubt 
now that the insects on which my observations were made had fed 
repeatedly, without my being aware of it, after their meal on the 
filariated patient. Bancroft has shown that by proper feeding (he 
used banana for the purpose) mosquitoes may be kept alive for 
several months, any filariae they happen to harbour remaining 
alive, but not advancing in development beyond the final stage 
alluded to in the above description. In the observations referred to 
I conjectured that the fully metamorphosed filaria escaped from the 
insect either at her death or when she deposited her eggs, and that 
thus, in drinking-water, it obtained a chance of gaining access to 
the stomach of a human host. Before Low's observation Bancroft 
had very nearly guessed the truth, for he had expressed the idea 
that the filaria may be injected into man by the mosquito when it 
re-feeds, or that it may be swallowed by man while it is still 
enclosed in its intermediary insect host. 



XL] 



TRANSMISSION 



699 



Once introduced into the human body, the filaria 
finds its way into the lymphatics. Arrived in one 
of these, it attains sexual maturity, fecundation is 
effected, and in due course new generations of larval 
filarise are poured into the lymph. These, passing 
through the glands if such should intervene by 
way of the thoracic duct and left subclavian vein 
or by the lymphatics of the upper part of the body, 
finally appear in the circulation. 

Such is the life-history of Filaria bancrofti ; man 
is its definitive host, the mosquito its intermediary 
host. It is manifest that filarial periodicity is an 




Pig. 108. Stages of larval form of F. bancrofti, from the thoracic muscles 
of Culex fatigans. (After Looss.) 

adaptation of the habits of the parasite to the noc- 
turnal habits of the mosquito. It is also manifest 
that the purpose of the "sheath" with which it is 
provided while circulating in the human host is to 
muzzle the young filaria and prevent its breaking 
through the blood-vessels, and thereby missing its 
chance of gaining access to the mosquito. The 
cephalic armature is adapted for piercing the walls 
of the mosquito's stomach, and for enabling the para- 
site to travel through the tissues of the insect. 

Anyone desirous of working out for himself the metamor- 
phosis of the filaria in the mosquito can readily do so, even in 
the absence of a suitable human subject, by setting Anopheles 
mosquitoes to bite filariated dogs. In most tropical countries 
a large proportion of the dogs harbour Filaria (Dirofilaria) 



700 



FILARTASIS 



[CHAP. 



immitis, whose larvae circulate in the hlood and are taken up 
by mosquitoes in the same way as F. bancrofti. (Fig. 109.) 
Grassi and Noe (confirmed by Bancroft, Sambon, and Low) 
have shown that the embryo F. immitis passes through the 
earlier stages of its metamorphosis in the Malpighian tubes of 




Fig. 109. Section of Dirofilaria immitis in the vena cava of a dog, to show 
the structure of a fllaria on transverse section. Embryos are seen 
amongst the surrounding blood-cells. (After Bdhr.) 

1, Cuticle; 2, muscle cells; 3, perivisceralfcavity ; 4, inter-uterine septum; 
5, alimentary canal; 6, ova. 

Anopheles, whence, on attaining a certain stage of develop- 
ment, it passes forwards to the head of the insect, where it 
behaves in much the same way as F. bancrofti. 

Parental forms. The parent filarias have been 
found many times. They are long, hair-like, transparent 



XL] 



THE PARENT FILARLffl 



701 



nematodes, 3-4 in. in length (Fig. 110). The sexes live 
together, often inextricably coiled about each other. Some- 
times they are enclosed, coiled up several in a bunch and 
tightly packed, in little cyst-like dilatations of the distal 
lymphatics (Maitland) ; sometimes they lie more loosely in 
lymphatic varices ; sometimes they inhabit the larger lym- 
phatic trunks between the glands, the glands themselves, and, 
probably not infrequently, the thoracic duct. 

The female Jilaria is the larger, both as regards length and 




Fig. 110. F. bancrofti (natural size) : a, male ; b, female. 

thickness. It measures 85-90 mm. in length by 0-24-0-28 mm. 
in breadth. The two uterine tubes, occupying the greater 
extent of her body, are filled with ova at various stages of 
development. In both sexes the oral end, armed with a double 
row (number uncertain) of exceedingly minute papillae (Fig. 
Ill, *), is slightly tapered, club-shaped and simple; the tail 
(Fig. Ill, a, c) also is tapered to comparatively small dimen- 
sions, its tip being rounded off abruptly. The vagina opens 




Fig. 111. Parental forms of F. bancrofti (magnified), 
(i, Tail of male ; b, head and neck ; c, tail of female. 



on the ventral surface about 1-2-1-3 mm. from the anterior 
extremity ; the anus just in advance of the tip of the tail. 
The cuticle is smooth and without markings. 

To the naked eye the male worm is characterized by its 
slender dimensions (about 40 mm. in length by 0*1 mm. in 
diameter), by its marked disposition to curl, and by the peculiar 
vine-tendril-like tail, the extreme end of which is sharply 
incurvated (Fig. 110, a). The cloaca gives exit to two slender, 
unequal spicules (0-2 and 0-6 mm. respectively). The existence 



702 



FILARIASIS 



[CHAP. 



of caudal papillse in the male worm has been ascertained 
by Leiper. There are in all two rows of fifteen each, 
extremely minute, mainly arranged around the anus. 

The life-span of F. bancrofti and its niicrofilaria have not 
been determined. From the fact that the microfilariae have 
been found in the blood many years after the opportunity of 
infection has passed, it is to be concluded that both of them 
may live for many years. Experiments with the microfilaria 
of Filaria (Dirofilaria) immitis have shown that in the case of 








Fig. 112. Calcified F. bancrofti lying in and blocking a lymphatic vessel. 

this worm the microfilaria may live for at least three years, 
and in this time acquire somewhat increased dimensions, but 
it does not follow that the inference from these experiments is 
applicable to microfilaria bancrofti. I have seen the latter 
completely disappear from the circulation within a few hours 
of the death of the parent worm during an attack of lymphan- 
gitis. Nothing is known of what becomes of the microfilaria3 
when they are effete or die. 

As shown by Wise and Bahr, the mature worm becomes 
cretiBed after its death, and may be found, sometimes in large 
numbers, in this condition in the lymphatic vessels and glands. 
(Figs. 112, 113.) 






XL] 



MORBID ANATOMY 



703 



Morbid anatomy and pathology. The 

filaria not generally pathogenic. In most cases of 
filarial infection the parasite exercises no manifest in- 
jurious influence whatever. In a certain proportion 
of instances, however, there can be no doubt that it 
does have a very prejudicial effect on its host; 
and this mainly by obstructing lymphatics. The 




Fig. 113. Section of a fibrosed lymphatic gland. (After Bahr.) 

A, Portions of a calcified F. bancrofti ; B, partially occluded lymphatic 
vessel. 

healthy, fully formed microfilarise that is to say, 
the larval filariae which, by means of the microscope, 
we see in the blood have, so far as we can tell, no 
pathogenic properties whatever; the parent worm 
and the immature products of conception, alone, are 
dangerous. 

Filarial disease originating in injury of lymphatic 
systems. Roughly speaking, the filaria causes two 
types of disease : one characterized by varicosity of 



704 FILARIASIS [CHAP. 

lymphatics, the other by more or less solid oedema. 
The exact way in which the parasite operates has 
not been definitely and absolutely ascertained for all 
types of filarial disease. Apparently, in some instances, 
a single worm, or a bunch of worms, may plug the 
thoracic duct, and act as an embolus or originate a 
thrombus ; or the worm may give rise to inflam- 
matory thickening of the walls of this vessel, and so 
lead to obstruction from the consequent stenosis or 
thrombosis. In other instances the minor lymphatic 
trunks and the glands may be similarly occluded. As 
an effect of either form of occlusion, the lymphatic 
areas drained by the implicated vessels are cut off 
from the general circulation, and varicosifcy or redema, 
or both, ensue. 

Pathology of lymphatic varix. In conse- 
quence of the rich anastomosis existing between the 
contiguous lymphatic areas, on filarial obstruction 
occurring in one of them a compensatory lymphatic 
circulation is sooner or later established. But be- 
fore this can be properly effected a rise of lymph 
pressure and a dilatation of the lymphatics in the 
implicated area must take place. This leads to 
lymphatic varix of different kinds, degrees, and 
situations. When the seat of filarial obstruction is 
the thoracic duct, the chyle poured into that vessel 
can reach the circulation only by a retrograde move- 
ment ; consequently, this fluid may be forced to 
traverse in a retrograde way the abdominal and 
pelvic lymphatics, the lymphatics of the groin, 
scrotum, and abdominal wall. As a consequence, these 
vessels, together with the thoracic duct up to the 
seat of obstruction, become enormously dilated. In 
dissections of such cases (Fig. 114) the thoracic duct 
has been found distended to the size of a finger, the 
abdominal and pelvic lymphatics forming an enor- 
mous varix, perhaps a foot in diameter and many 
inches in thickness, concealing kidneys, bladder, and 
spermatic cords. In such cases, when one of the 
vessels of the varix is pricked or ruptures, the con- 
tents are found to be white or pinkish. They are 
not limpid like ordinary lymph. They are chyle, 



XL] 



PATHOLOGY 



705 



therefore chyle on its way to enter the circulation 
by a retrograde compensatory track. When the varix 
involves the integuments of the scrotum, the result 
is " lymph scrotum " ; when most prominent in the 
groin, then a condition of glands is produced which 
I have called "varicose groin glands"; when the 
lymphatics of the bladder or kidneys are affected and 
rupture from over-distension, then chyluria is the 
result; when those of the tunica vaginalis rupture, 




Fig. 114. Dissection of the lymphatics in a case of chyluria, showing 
the dilated right and left renal lymphatics and thoracic duct. 
(Mackenzie, Trans. Path. Soc. Lond.) 

then there is chylous dropsy of that sac "chylocele"; 
the same may happen in the peritoneum chylous 
ascites. Occasionally varicose lymphatic glands, re- 
sembling those frequently encountered in the groins, 
are found in the axilla. Occasionally, also, limited por- 
tions of the lymphatic trunks of the limbs are similarly 
and temporarily, or more permanently, distended. 
This, doubtless, is the pathology of all those forms of 
filarial disease characterized by yisjble varicosity of 



706 FILARIASIS [CHAP. 

lymphatics, with or without lymphorrhagia. It may 
happen that the obstruction is in some lymphatic tract 
on the distal side of the entrance of the chyle-bearing 
vessels into the receptaculum chyli. In this case a 
rupture of the consequent lymphatic varix will give 
issue to lymph unmixed with chyle. 

Filarice may disappear from the blood in such 
cases. In filarial disease associated with lymphatic 
varix, micronlariae are generally present in the blood 
as well as in the contents of the dilated vessels. 
Sometimes, it is true, the microfilarise are not found. 
Such cases are probably of long standing ; had the 
microfilaria been looked for at an earlier stage of the 
disease, it would probably have been discovered. I 
have watched cases in which the larva has disappeared 
in this way ; though at first found in abundance in 
the blood, after a year or longer it ceased to appear 
there. The reason for this disappearance is doubtless 
the death of the parent parasites, an occurrence I 
have seen associated with attacks of acute lymphan- 
gitis. Although the original cause of the varix may 
thus disappear, the effect is permanent. 

Pathology of elephantiasis arabuni. 
Micrqfilarice not usually present in the blood in ele- 
phantiasis. In those cases of filarial disease in which 
elephantiasis arabum is the leading feature, it is not 
usual at any stage of the established disease to find 
microfilarise in the blood or elsewhere, unless it be in 
countries in which filariasis is extremely common and 
reinfection, or extensive infection, highly probable. 

Reasons for regarding elephantiasis as a filarial 
disease. From this circumstance the absence of 
microfilarise from the blood in elephantiasis the 
question naturally arises, Why attribute this dis- 
ease to the filaria? The answer to this is: (1) The 
geographical distribution of Filaria bancrofti and of 
elephantiasis arabum corresponds ; where elephantia- 
sis abounds there the filaria abounds, and vice versa. 
(2) Filarial lymphatic varix and elephantiasis occur in 
the same districts, and frequently concur in the same 
individual. (3) Lymph scrotum, an unquestionably 
filarial disease, often terminates in elephantiasis of 



XL] PATHOLOGY 707 

the scrotum. (4) Elephantiasis of the leg sometimes 
supervenes on the surgical removal of a lymph 
scrotum. (5) Elephantiasis and lymphatic varix are 
essentially diseases of the lymphatics. (6) Filarial 
lymphatic varix and true elephantiasis are both accom- 
panied by the same type of recurring lymphangitis. 
(7) As filarial lymphatic varix is practically proved 
to be caused by the filaria, the inference that the 
elephantiasis of warm climates, with rare exceptions 
the disease with which the former is so often 
associated and has so many affinities is attributable 
to the same cause, appears to be warranted. 

Explanation of the absence of micrqfilarice in the 
blood in elephantiasis. If the filaria be the cause of 
tropical elephantiasis, how account for the absence of 
filaria larvae in the blood, as is the case in the vast 
majority of instances of this disease 1 The answer 
is : Either the disease-producing filarise have died ; 
or the lymphatics draining the affected area are 
so effectually obstructed by the filaria, its pro- 
ducts, or its effects, that any microfilarise they may 
contain, or may have contained, cannot pass along 
these vessels to enter the circulation. Adult filarise 
of both sexes in large numbers may be found in 
enlarged fibrosed lymphatic glands epitrochlear, for 
example without the presence of the corresponding 
microfilariae in the blood- stream. 

We have already said that in filarial lymphatic 
varix the parasites which produced the disease may 
die, particularly during attacks of lymphangitis ; we 
have also seen that they may become cretified and 
may be found in large numbers in this condition or 
alive in the glands and lymphatic trunks, where, as 
Bahr has shown, they give rise to giant-cell formation 
and-fibrotic changes of an obstructive nature. (Figs. 
112, 113.) I do not think, however, that this is the 
entire explanation of the origin of elephantiasis. 

Lymph stasis produced by filaria ova. I have 
twice in filariasis found ova of the filaria in lymph ; 
once in the lymph from a lymph scrotum, once in 
lymph procured by aspirating a varicose groin gland. 
Therefore, at times, the filaria may produce ova 



708 FILARIASIS [CHAP. 

instead of swimming larvae. The ova of the filaria 
are not like the long, supple, slim, active, swimming 
larvae; they are passive, more or less rigid oval 
bodies nearly five times the diameter of the embryo 
coiled up in their interior. In consequence of their 
size and passive character the ova, unlike the normal 
free-swimming larvae, are quite incapable of tra- 
versing such lymphatic glands as, in the event of 
their escape from the parental worm, they may be 
carried to passively by the lymph-stream. It is an 
accepted fact in pathology that an essential element 
in the causation of elephantiasis is lymph stasis. I 
have ventured to conjecture that the stasis of lymph 
which eventuates in tropical elephantiasis is in some 
instances produced by embolism of the lymphatic 
glands by ova of the filaria. 

If ova are expelled by the parent filaria, it must 
be as a result of some hurrying of the process of 
filarial parturition. That this does occur sometimes 
the discovery, already mentioned, of filaria ova in 
the lymph fully proves. We can readily understand 
how, in consequence of mechanical injury, to which 
from her exposed position in the limbs she must 
be frequently subjected, or of some other cause, the 
parent filaria may miscarry. Should this happen, 
then the contents of her uterus will be expelled 
prematurely, and before the ova, normally lying at 
the upper part of her uterus, have become the long, 
outstretched, active larvae we see in the blood. If 
a crowd of these passive, massive ova are carried 
by the lymph -stream to the lymphatic glands of a 
limb, in the lymphatic trunks of which a female 
filaria is lying aborting, embolism of the afferent 
lymphatics of the glands must result and stasis of 
lymph in the limb ensue. 

Inflammation necessary for the production of 
elephantiasis. Lymph stasis alone does not produce 
elephantiasis ; this has been proved by experimental 
ligature of lymphatic trunks. It may produce a 
form of oedema, but not true elephantoid hypertrophy. 
Should inflammation occur in an area of lymphatic 
congestion so produced, as it is very apt to do on the 



XL] PATHOLOGY 709 

slightest injury, then elephantiasis will supervene ; for, 
unless the lymphatics of an inflamed area are patent, 
the products of inflammation are not completely 
absorbed. Erysipelatoid inflammation, frequently re- 
curring, is a well-recognized feature of almost every 
case of elephantiasis arabum. 

Sequence of events in elephantiasis. The sequence 
of events in the production of elephantiasis is, I 
believe, as follows: Parent female filaria in the 
lymphatic system of the affected part ; obstructive 
fibrotic changes in the glands or lymphatic trunks ; or 
injury of the filaria leading to premature expulsion 
of ova; and embolism of lymphatic glands super- 
vening on either of these causes of obstruction ; 
stasis of lymph ; lymphangitis from subsequent trau- 
matism or other cause (as septic infection) in the 
congested area ; imperfect absorption of the products 
of inflammation ; recurring attacks of inflammation 
leading to gradual, intermittently progressive, inflam- 
matory hypertrophy of the part. 

In this way I explain the production of elephan- 
tiasis by the filaria. And in this way I explain 
the absence from the blood of the larvae of the 
parasite which started the disease ; they cannot pass 
the occluded glands. Very likely the parent worm 
or worms die at an early stage of the disease, killed 
by the subsequent lymphangitis, or by the cause 
which led to premature parturition. 

The subjects of elephantiasis less liable than others 
to microfilarice in the blood. Some years ago I made 
a curious observation which supports the view just 
stated. I received from Surgeon-Major Elcum 88 
slides of night blood from 88 natives of Cochin. Of 
these 88 persons, 14 were affected with elephantiasis, 
74 were not so affected. Of the slides coming from 
the 74 non-elephantiasis cases, 20 contained micro- 
filarise, one in every 3| ; of the 14 elephantiasis cases, 
only 1 had microfilariae. Why should the elephan- 
tiasis cases have proportionately fewer microfilarise 
than the non-elephantiasis cases] The answer may 
be, that in the former the existence of elephantiasis 
implied that a large area of their lymphatic systems 



710 FILARIASIS [CHAP. 

was blocked, and the blood could be stocked with 
microfilariae carried by the lymph from only a rela- 
tively small lymphatic area; and that there was, 
therefore, a proportionately lesser likelihood of the 
presence of parent filariae having for their young an 
unobstructed passage to the blood. 

FILARIAL DISEASES 

Enumeration of the filarial diseases. The diseases 
known to be produced by Filaria bancrofti are abscess; 
lymphangitis ; arthritis ; synovitis ; abscess of hip- 
joint; varicose groin glands ; varicose axillary glands ; 
lymph scrotum : cutaneous and deep lymphatic varix ; 
orchitis ; funiculitis ; chyluria ; elephantiasis of the 
leg, scrotum, vulva, arm, mamma, and elsewhere ; 
chylous dropsy of the tunica vaginalis ; chylous ascites ; 
chylous diarrhrea, and probably other forms of disease 
depending on obstruction or varicosity of the lym- 
phatics, or on death of the parent filarise, including 
peritonitis and secondary infection by pyogenic micro- 
organisms (Wise and Minett). 

Abscess. Occasionally, as already mentioned, 
whether in consequence of blows or other injuries, 
of lymphangitis, or of unknown causes, the parent 
filarise die. Generally the dead body is absorbed, just 
as a piece of aseptic catgut would be, or becomes 
cretified.* Sometimes the dead worm acts as an irri- 
tant and causes abscess, in the contents of which frag- 
ments of the filaria may be found. Such abscesses, 
occurring in the limbs or scrotum, will discharge in 
due course, or may be opened; if properly treated 
surgically they may lead to no further trouble. 
Should they form in the thorax or abdomen, serious 
consequences and even death may ensue. 

Probably, in certain instances, abscess forms at 
times independently of the death of the parasite; e.g. 
in varicose glands, in lymph scrotum, in elephantiasis. 

* Wise and Minett, during the last few years, have found 
filarise living, or cretified, in the following situations, viz. pelvis 
of kidney (31 times), epididymis (18 times), retroperitoneum (12 
times), the ilio-psoas muscle (4 times), Glisson's capsule (twice), 
inguinal glands (25 times), lymphatic vessels (8 times). Similar 
observations have been made by Bahr in Fiji. 



XL] ELEPHANTOID FEVER 711 

The death of the parent filaria is apt to be lost 
sight of as a possible cause of abscess in the subjects 
of filarial infection. Deep-seated pain in the thorax 
or abdomen, with inflammatory fever followed by 
hectic, and a diminution in the number of micro- 
filariae in, or their entire disappearance from, the 
peripheral blood, should in such circumstances suggest 
a diagnosis of filarial abscess and indicate exploration 
and, if feasible, active surgical interference. 

Lymphangitis and elephantoid fever. 
Symptoms. Lymphangitis is a common occurrence in 
all forms of filarial disease, particularly in elephanti- 
asis, varicose glands, and lymph scrotum. When 
occurring in the limbs the characteristic painful, 
cord-like swelling of the lymphatic trunks and asso- 
ciated glands, and the red congested streak in the 
super jacent skin, are usually apparent at the com- 
mencement of the attack. Yery soon, however, the 
connective tissue and skin of the implicated area 
become inflamed and tense, and high fever, pre- 
ceded by severe and prolonged rigor, sets in. The 
attack may continue for several days, and be accom- 
panied by severe headache, anorexia, often vomiting, 
and sometimes delirium. After a time the tension 
of the inflamed integuments may relieve itself by a 
lymphous discharge from the surface. Usually the 
attack ends in profuse general diaphoresis. The swell- 
ing then subsides gradually though not entirely. 
Lymphangitis may be confined to groin glands, testis, 
spermatic cord, or abdominal lymphatics. When it 
affects an extensive abdominal varix, symptoms of 
peritonitis are rapidly developed and may prove fatal. 

Diagnosis. This fever, appropriately named by 
Fayrer " elephantoid fever," occurs habitually at 
varying intervals of weeks, months, or years, in 
nearly all forms of elephantoid disease. Its tend- 
ency to recur, the severe rigor ushering it in, and 
the terminal diaphoresis cause it to be mistaken 
for ague. In Barbados, where there is no malaria, 
it is habitually called " ague." The implication of 
the lymphatics, the local pain, the erysipelatoid red- 
ness and swelling, the prolonged pyrexial stage, the 



712 FILARIASIS [CHAP. 

absence of the malaria parasite from the blood, the 
presence there very possibly of microfilarise, and 
the powerlessness of quinine to control the fever, 
suffice for diagnosis. Nevertheless, error in diagnosis 
is common, particularly when the attacks recur fre- 
quently and with a certain degree of regularity, as is 
usually the case. 

Treatment. The treatment should consist in re- 
moving any cause of irritation, in rest, elevation of 
the affected part, cooling lotions or warm fomenta- 
tions, mild aperients, opium or morphia to relieve 
pain, and, if tension is great, pricking or scarifying 
the swollen area under suitable aseptic conditions. 
Subsequently the parts, if their position permits, 
should be elevated and firmly bandaged. 

Varicose groin glands (Figs. 115, 116). 
Varicose groin glands are frequently associated with 
lymph scrotum, with chylous dropsy of the tunica 
vagiualis, or with chyluria. Occasionally all four 
conditions coexist in the same individual. 

Symptoms. As a rule the patient is not aware of 
the existence of these varicose glands until they have 
attained considerable dimensions. Then, a sense of 
tension, or an attack of lymphangitis, calls attention 
to the state of the groins, where certain soft swellings 
are discovered. These swellings may be of insignifi- 
cant dimensions or they may attain the size of a fist. 
They may involve both groins, or only one groin ; 
they may affect the inguinal glands alone, or the 
femoral glands alone, or (and generally) both sets 
together. 

To the touch they feel soft, doughy, and obscurely 
lobulated. The skin, natural in appearance, can 
be glided over the surface, but the swellings them- 
selves are not movable over the subjacent fascia. 
Occasionally hard, kernel-like pieces can be felt in 
their interior, or the entire mass may be more or less 
indurated. On thrusting a hypodermic needle into 
the swellings, white or reddish chylous, or clear 
lymphous fluid can be aspirated, sometimes in great 
abundance. This fluid coagulates rapidly, and usually 
contains living microfilarise or filarial ova. 



XL] VARICOSE GROIN GLANDS 713 

Diagnosis. It is important to be able to diagnose 
these tumours from hernia, for which they are often 
mistaken. This can be done by observing that they 
are not tympanitic on percussion ; that though pres- 
sure causes them to diminish, they do so slowly ; that 
there is no sudden dispersion accompanied by gurgling, 
as in hernia, on taxis being employed ; that they con- 




Fig. 115. Varicose groin glands and chylocele. (From a patient under the 
care of Mr. Johnson Smith.) 

vey a relatively slight or no impulse on coughing ; 
that they slowly subside on the patient lying down, 
and slowly return, even if pressure be applied over the 
saphenous or inguinal openings, on the erect posture 
being resumed. The cautious use of the hypodermic 
needle will confirm diagnosis ; which would be further 
strengthened by the coexistence of lymph scrotum, 
chyluria, or chylous hydrocele, and the presence of 
filarire in the blood. Chronic swellings about the groin. 



714 



FILARIASIS 



[CHAP. 



cords, testes, and scrotum in patients from the tropics 
should always be regarded as being possibly Jilarial. 

Pathological anatomy. On dissection these tumours 
are found to consist of bunches of varicose lymphatics, 
and, it may be, to form part of a vast lymphatic varix 
involving the pelvic and abdominal lymphatics. 

Treatment. Unless they give rise to an incapaci- 
tating amount of discomfort, and are the seat of fre- 




Fig. 116 Unusually large varicose groin glands. (From photograph. 

Journ.ofTrop.Med.) 

quent attacks of lymphangitis, varicose groin glands 
are best left alone. It must always be remembered 
that they are part of an anastomosis necessary to 
life. Should they be very troublesome and incapacitate 
for work, they may be removed. In operating, strict 
aseptic methods must be practised, as septic lymphan- 
gitis readily occurs, and has frequently proved fatal 
after operations in such cases. Excision is not always 
satisfactory, as it may be followed by lymphorrhagia 
at the seat of the wound, by excessive dilatation of 



XL] THICKENED LYMPHATIC TRUNKS 715 

some other part of the implicated lymphatic area, by 
chyluria, or by elephantiasis in one or both legs. 

I have suggested that these tumours might be 
treated by establishing an anastomosis between one 
of the dilated lymphatic vessels and a neighbouring 
vein. Sir Rickman Godlee has twice performed such 
an operation for me with partial success : it is somewhat 
difficult, owing to the fragile nature of the dilated 
lymphatic vessels, and the shortness of their course. 

It is said (Azema) that these glands tend to 
diminish in size after the age of 40. I cannot con- 
firm this statement from personal observation. 

Similar varicose dilatation of the axillary glands is 
sometimes, though much more rarely, found. Bancroft 
designated these varicose axillary and groin glands 
"helminthoma elastica." 

Cutaneous and deeper lymphatic varices. 
Occasionally cutaneous lymphatic varices are seen 
on the surface of the abdomen, on the legs, arms, and 
probably elsewhere. Sometimes they are permanent ; 
sometimes, when more deeply situated, they constitute 
little swellings which come and go in a few hours. I 
believe these latter often depend on the actual presence 
of parent filariae in the tumour. Such varices are evi- 
dence of lymphatic obstruction. Filarial lymphangiec- 
tasis of the spermatic cord is not uncommon. The 
contents may be milky and chylous, or straw-coloured 
and lymphous, according to situation and connections. 

Thickened lymphatic trunks. Maitland 
has frequently seen in Madras cases of lymphangitis 
in which, after the initial swelling and inflammation 
had subsided, a line of thickening remained. On ex- 
cising this thickened tissue and carefully dissecting it, 
he has found minute cyst-like dilatations of the lym- 
phatic involved, and in these cysts, coiled up, adult 
nlarise, sometimes dead, sometimes a,live. The lym- 
phangitis, he believes, is caused in these cases by the 
death of the filarise. Daniels has made similar observa- 
tions in British Guiana. Such a case I saw under 
the care of Dr. Abercrombie at Charing Cross Hos- 
pital in London. On the subsidence of a filarial 
lymphangitis of the arm a thickening, about the size 



716 FILARIASIS [CHAP. 

of a finger-tip, remained on the forearm. Believing 
that it contained adult filarise, this thickening was 
excised by Mr. Young and placed in normal salt 
solution. Eight hours later the mass was carefully 
dissected, and a living female filaria, about 4 in. 




Fig. 117. Lymph scrotum and varicose groin glands. (Photograph by 
Dr. Rennie, Foochow.) 

in length, was turned out. The parasite continued 
to live and swim about actively in the salt solu- 
tion for nearly two hours. Bahr has called attention 
to the frequency with which the epitrochlear gland is 
enlarged and thickened by filarial invasion. 

Lymph scrotum (Fig. 117). Symptoms. In 
this disease the scrotum is more or less enlarged. 



XL] LYMPH SCROTUM 717 

Though usually silky to the touch, on inspection the 
skin presents a few, or a large number of, smaller 
or larger lymphatic varices which, when pricked or 
when they open spontaneously, discharge large quan- 
tities of milky, or sanguineous - looking, or straw- 
coloured, rapidly coagulating lymph or chyle. In 
some cases 8 or 10 oz. of this substance will escape 
from a puncture in the course of an hour or two ; 
it may go on running for many hours on end, soil- 
ing the clothes of the patient and exhausting him. 
Usually microfilarise can be discovered in the lymph 
so obtained, as well as in the blood of the patient. 
In a large proportion of cases of lymph scrotum the 
inguinal and femoral glands, either on one or on both 
sides, are varicose. 

Probably provoked by friction against the thighs 
and clothes, erysipelatoid inflammation and elephan- 
toid fever are frequent occurrences. Abscess is not 
uncommon. In time, in a proportion of cases, the 
scrotum tends to become permanently thickened and 
to pass into a state of true elephantiasis. 

Treatment. Unless inflammation be a frequent 
occurrence, or there be frequent and debilitating 
lymphorrhagia, or unless the disease tend to pass 
into true elephantiasis, lymph scrotum kept scrupu- 
lously clean, powdered, suspended, and protected 
had better be left alone. Should, however, for 
these or other reasons, it be deemed expedient to 
remove the diseased tissues, this can be effected 
easily. The scrotum should be well dragged down 
by an assistant whilst the testes are pushed up out 
of the way of injury. A finger knife is then passed 
through the scrotum, and in sound tissues, just clear 
of the testes, and the mass excised by cutting back- 
wards and forwards. No diseased tissues, and hardly 
any flap, should be left. Sufficient covering for the 
testes can be got by dragging on and, if necessary, 
dissecting up the skin of the thighs, which readily 
yields and affords ample covering. It is a very 
common but a very great mistake to remove too 
little. As a rule, the wound, if carefully stitched and 
dressed antiseptically, heals rapidly. 



718 FILAKIASIS [CHAP. 

In consequence of this violent interference with a 
large varix, of which that in the scrotum is but a 
part, chyluria, or elephantiasis of a leg, may super- 
vene. The patient should be warned of this possibility. 

Chyluria. Pathology. When a lymphatic varix 
in the walls of the bladder, or elsewhere in the urin- 
ary tract, the consequence of filarial obstruction in 
the thoracic duct or in the lymphatics of the urinary 
system, ruptures, there is an escape of the contents of 
the lymphatics into the urine. Chyluria, or lymphuria, 
is the result. 

Symptoms. This disease frequently appears with- 
out warning ; usually, however, pain in the back and 
aching sensations about the pelvis and groins pro- 
bably caused by great distension of the pre-existing 
lymphatic varix precede it. Retention of urine, from 
the presence of chylous or lymphous coagula, is some- 
times the first indication of serious trouble. Whether 
preceded by aching, or by retention, or by other 
symptoms, the patient becomes suddenly aware that 
he is passing milky urine. Sometimes, instead of 
being white, the urine is pinkish or even red ; some- 
times, white in the morning, it is reddish in the 
evening, or vice versa. Sometimes, whilst chylous at 
one part of the day, it is perfectly limpid at another. 
Great variety in this respect exists in different cases, 
and even in the same case from time to time, de- 
pending on temporary closure of the rupture in the 
lymphatic, and also on the nature of the food.* 

Physical characters of chylous urine. If chylous 
urine be passed into a urine glass and allowed to 
stand, as a rule, within a very short time, the whole 
of the urine becomes coagulated. Gradually the co- 
agulum contracts until, at the end of some hours, 
a small, more or less globular clot, usually bright red 
or pinkish in colour, is floating about in a milky fluid. 

* The sanguineous appearance so frequently seen in chylous 
urine and in other forms of filarial lymphorrhagia probably de- 
pends in some instances on the formation of blood-corpuscles in 
lymph long retained in the varicose vessels, and as a result of 
the normal evolution of the formed elements in that fluid ; in 
other instances it is probably caused by rupture of small blood- 
vessels into the dilated lymphatics. 



XL] CHYLURIA 719 

Later, the milky fluid separates into three layers. 
On the top there is formed a cream-like pellicle ; at 
the bottom a scanty reddish sediment, sometimes 
including minute red clots ; in the centre the mass 
of the urine forms a thick, "intermediate stratum, 
milky white or reddish white in colour, in which 
floats the contracted coagulum, If a little of the 
sediment be taken up with a pipette and examined 
with the microscope, it is found to contain red 
blood-corpuscles, lymphocytes, granular fatty matter, 
epithelium, and urinary salts, and mixed with these 
in a large proportion of cases, though not in all, 
microfilarise. The middle layer contains much granu- 
lar fatty matter ; whilst the upper cream-like layer 
consists of the same fatty material in greater abund- 
ance, the granules tending to aggregate into larger 
oil globules. If a little of the coagulum be teased 
out, pressed between two slides, and examined with 
the microscope, microfilarise, more or less active, may 
be found in the meshes of the fibrin. If ether or xylol 
be shaken up with the milky urine, the fat particles 
are dissolved out and the urine becomes clear ; the 
fat may be recovered by decanting and evaporating 
the ether which floats on the urine. Boiling the urine 
throws down a considerable precipitate of albumin. 
When the urine contains only lymph, fatty elements 
are absent, or are present in but very small amount. 

Recovery and relapse. Chyluria comes and goes 
in a very capricious manner. Sometimes the urine 
remains steadily chylous for weeks and months, and 
then suddenly, without obvious cause, becomes limpid 
and natural-looking, and free from fat or albumin. 
Later a relapse will occur, again to disappear after 
an uncertain time; and so on during a long course 
of years. 

Retention of urine. Retention of urine is nob an 
unusual occurrence ; it is produced by the formation 
of coagulum in the bladder. The retention usually 
gives way after a few hours of distress, worm-like 
clots being passed. 

Constitutional effects. Although chyluria is not 
directly dangerous to life, yet, being prolonged, it 



720 FILARIASIS [CHAP. 

gives rise to pronounced anaemia, with depression 
of spirits, and feelings of weakness and debility, 
and thus tends to incapacitate the patient for active, 
vigorous life. 

Exciting causes of chyluria. Chyluria is very 
liable to occur, either for the first time or as a 
relapse, in pregnancy or after childbirth ; the dis- 
turbance of the pelvic lymphatics in pregnancy and 
the muscular efforts attending labour apparently caus- 
ing rupture of pelvic lymphatics previously rendered 
varicose by filarial obstruction of the thoracic duct. 
In men, running, leaping, and violent efforts gener- 
ally are sometimes assigned as its cause ; usually the 
exciting cause is not discoverable. 

Treatment. The treatment of chyluria should be 
conducted on the same lines as the treatment of 
inaccessible varix elsewhere ; that is to say, by resting 
and elevating the affected part, and thereby diminish- 
ing as far as possible the hydrostatic pressure in the 
distended vessels. Many forms of medicinal treatment 
have been advocated. Because during treatment with 
some drug a chyluria has subsided, curative proper- 
ties are apt to be attributed to the drug. The best 
results are got by sending fhe patient to bed, elevating 
the pelvis, restricting the amount of food and fluid 
especially fatty food gentle purgation, and absolute 
rest. It will be found that a day or two of treatment 
on these lines is often followed by temporary, perhaps 
prolonged, cessation of the chyluria. The drugs which 
have been particularly lauded in the treatment of this 
disease are gallic acid in large doses, benzoic acid in 
large doses, glycerin, the tincture of the perchloride 
of iron, decoction of mangrove bark, chromic acid, 
quinine, salicylate of soda, ichthyol, and Nigella 
sativa. I do not believe that these substances have 
any influence whatever in stopping the lymphorrhagia. 
Neither do I believe that thymol, recommended by 
Lawrie, or methylene blue, recommended by American 
writers, has any effect either on the filaria or on the 
disease it gives rise to ; since their first recommenda- 
tion both drugs have been tried, but in other hands- 
have failed. 



XL] ELEPHANTIASIS 721 

Filarial orchitis. Several French writers 
describe under the name " malarial orchitis " a special 
form of inflammation of the testes, and here and 
there in Indian medical literature allusion is made 
to the same or a similar subject. " I have many 
times seen filarial orchitis, but I cannot say I have 
seen orchitis of purely and unquestionably malarial 
origin. The fever attending filarial orchitis which 
is usually associated with lymphangitis of the sper- 
matic cord (funiculitis) and perhaps with inflamma- 
tion of the scrotum like ordinary elephantoid fever 
resembles very closely a malarial attack, and may be 
mistaken for this. Without absolutely denying the 
existence of such a disease as malarial orchitis, I 
would suggest that the affection described by the 
French and Indian writers referred to, and endemic 
inflammations of testes, spermatic cords, and scrotum 
generally, are of filarial origin. 

Filarial synovitis. Maitland mentions acute 
synovitis of the knee-joint as one of the filarial 
diseases, and gives the particulars of five cases. He 
considers the concurrence of synovitis with filarial 
invasion too common to be accidental. Bahr has 
confirmed this, and has found that ankylosis often 
results. In cases where the hip- joint is affected, 
removal of the inflamed iliac glands draining the 
area appears to relieve the condition. 

ELEPHANTIASIS 

Its prevalence. Elephantiasis is by far the most 
frequent manifestation of filarial invasion, and is 
exceedingly common in some of the endemic districts. 
Thus, in certain districts in Cochin about 5 per cent, 
of the population, in Samoa about every second in- 
dividual, in Huahine seven-tenths of. the adult male 
population are affected. In many other tropical and 
sub-tropical countries, if not so common as in those 
just mentioned, elephantiasis is, nevertheless, common 
enough. 

Parts affected. In 95 per cent, of the cases the 
lower extremities either one or both alone, or in 
combination with the scrotum or arms, are the seat of 



722 



FILARIASIS 



[CHAP. 



the disease. The foot and ankle only, or the foot 
and leg, or the foot, leg, and thigh, may, each or 
all, be involved. The scrotum is also a common 
situation for elephantiasis. The arms are more rarely 
attacked ; still more rarely the mammae, vulva, and 
circumscribed portions of the integuments of the 
limbs, trunk, neck, or scalp (Fig. 118). 

The recurring erysipelatoid attacks. The disease 
in any of these situations commences with a rapidly 
evolved lymphangitis, dermatitis, and cellulitis ac- 
companied by elephantoid fever. On the subsidence of 

the acute symptoms the 
skin and subcutaneous 
fascia of the affected part 
do not quite resume their 
original proportions ; the 
inflammatory effusion not 
being completely absorbed, 
some permanent thicken- 
ing remains. Recurrences 
of this inflammation 
once or twice a month, 
or perhaps once in six 
months, or every twelve 
months, or even at longer 
intervals, add a little each 
time to the bulk of the 
limb or scrotum. Thus, 
gradually, an enormous 
swelling may be built up. 
Occasionally, though very rarely, enlargement may 
progress after one, two, or more initial inflammatory 
attacks, and without further recurrence of these. 

Clinical characters of the swelling. The affected 
part is greatly increased in bulk. The surface of the 
skin, in confirmed elephantiasis especially, is rough 
and coarse ; the mouths of the follicles are sometimes 
unusually distinct ; the papillae and glands are either 
hypertrophied or atrophied; the hair is coarse and 
sparse ; the nails are rough, thick, and deformed. 
Around joints the thickened integuments are thrown 
into folds, the comparatively smooth-sided and deep 




Fig. 118. Elephantiasis of scalp. 
(Journ. of Trap. Med.) 






XL] ELEPHANTIASIS OF THE LEGS 723 

interlying sulci permitting limited movement. There is 
no distinct line of demarcation between healthy and 
diseased skin. The implicated integuments are hard, 
dense, pit but slightly if at all on pressure, and cannot 
be pinched up or freely glided over the deeper parts. 

Its macroscopic anatomy. On cutting into the 
swelling, the derma is found to be dense, fibrous, and 
enormously hypertrophied. The subjacent connective 
tissue is increased in bulk, having, especially in the 
case of the scrotum, a yellowish, blubbery appearance 
from lymphous infiltration. A large quantity of fluid 
wells out on division of such tissues. The muscles, 
nerves, and bones are not necessarily diseased, al- 
though in rare instances they may be degenerated 
and slightly or considerably atrophied from pressure. 
The blood-vessels are large ; the lymphatics dilated ; 
the associated lymphatic glands, both of the same 
side and, very often, of the opposite side, enlarged 
and dense. 

True elephantiasis permanent. Though in recent 
cases the bulk of -the limbs may be much reduced 
temporarily by treatment, the disease is never per- 
manently recovered from. Simple lymphatic oedema 
in areas which have never become inflamed subsides 
readily enough on pressure or elevation. 

Elephantiasis of the legs (Fig. 119). Ele- 
phantiasis of the lower extremities is usually, though 
by no means always, confined to below the knee. 
The, swelling may attain enormous dimensions and 
involve the entire extremity, the leg or legs attaining 
a circumference, in aggravated cases, of several feet. 

Treatment. In the treatment of elephantiasis of 
the leg the patient should be encouraged to persevere 
with elastic bandaging, massage, and elevation of the 
limb. Castellani claims good results from a combina- 
tion of these measures with daily injections of fibro- 
lysin 2 c.c. Ligature of the femoral artery has been 
practised ; it is probably useless, and is certainly 
not a justifiable method of treatment. Sometimes, 
in extreme cases, good results are got from excision 
of redundant masses of skin, a longitudinal strip of 
three or four inches in breadth by a foot or more in 



724 FILARIASIS [CHAP. 

length being dissected off. Charles advocates com- 
plete resection of the whole of the elephantoid tissue 
except the sole of the foot, followed by extensive 
skin-grafting. Electrolysis and mercury have also 
been used ; I question their value. During the acute 
attacks, tension may be relieved by aseptic punctures 
with a sharp lancet. At all times the limb must 




Fig. 119. Elephantiasis of legs ; scrotum and right arm also 
affected. (Photograph by Dr. Turner, Samoa.). 

be carefully guarded from injury, and shoes and trou- 
sers worn. Slight injuries provoke the inflammatory 
recurrences. Wading in water, prolonged standing, 
violent exercise, and exposure to a hot sun are in- 
jurious and should be avoided. 

Handley has brought forward an operation, lymph- 
angioplasty, the underlying principle of which is the 
drainage of an area of lymph stasis into an adja- 
cent patent lymphatic area by means of strands 



XL] SCROTAL ELEPHANTIASIS 725 

of silk passing from one to the other. He describes 
the operation thus : " Eight stout silk threads were 
ted upwards from the foot to a point in the iliac 
fossa just above Poupart's ligament. These were 
spaced out round the limb at intervals. Above they 
united to form a leash. The iliacus muscle was ex- 
posed by a short incision like that for ligature of the 
external iliac artery. Half the threads were passed 
through a portion of the iliacus muscle, and were 
knotted in pairs to the other four threads, thus fixing 
them securely to the tissues of the iliac fossa. The 
multiple small incisions through which the threads 
were introduced were closed by horsehair sutures, 
leaving the silk completely buried in the subcutaneous 
tissues." He claims a comparative success in one 
marked case of elephantiasis of the leg. Judging 
from the narrative of this case (Trans. Soc. of Trop. 
Med., vol. ii., p. 41) the operation is attended with 
considerable risk from sepsis. Others who have prac- 
tised it do not report favourably on the results. 

Lands operation aims at deep lymphatic drain- 
age. A longitudinal incision is made through the 
fascia lata down to the femur, the periosteum of which 
is stripped and the bone trephined in several places ; 
strips of fascia are then inserted into the openings 
thus made. Surgeons who have followed this method 
report excellent results ; many have omitted trephin- 
ing the bone and have contented themselves with 
incising the fascia lata. 

Kondoleon's operation consists also of free in- 
cision of the fascia lata and removal of large sections 
of the aponeurosis ; the removal of this tissue assists 
in the anastomosis of lymph channels and veins. 
This operation has been favourably reported on by 
Matas. 

Elephantiasis of the scrotum (Fig. 120). 
Weight of tumours. Elephantiasis of the scrotum, 
or "scrotal tumour" as it is sometimes called, may 
attain an enormous size: 10, 15, or 20 Ib. are 
common weights for these tumours, and 40 or 50 Ib. 
is by no means uncommon. The largest recorded 
weighed 224 Ib. 



726 FILARIASIS [CHAP. 

Anatomical characters. There are certain points in the 
anatomy of scrotal tumour which the operating surgeon must 
bear in" mind. These tumours consist of two portions (Fig. 
121) : first, a dense rind of hypertrophied skin (Ae), thickest 
towards the lower part and gradually thinning out as it 
merges ahove into the sound skin of the pubes, perineum, and 
thighs ; second, enclosed in this rind, a mass of lax, blubbery, 




Fig. 120. Elephantiasis of scrotum ; left leg slightly affected. 
(PJwtograph by Dr. Turner, Samoa.) 



dropsical, easily -torn-through, areolar tissue in which testes, 
cords, and penis are embedded. The shape of the tumour is 
more or less pyrif orm. The upper part, or neck, on transverse 
section (B) is triangular, the base (B k) of the triangle being in 
front, the apex (Bj) usually somewhat bifid from dragging on 
the gluteal folds towards the anus, the sides (B h) towards 
the thighs. In the latter situation the skin, though usually 
more 01 less diseased, is, from pressure, softer and thinner 



XL] 



SCROTAL ELEPHANTIASIS 



727 



than elsewhere, tempting the surgeon to utilize it for the 
formation of flaps not always a wise proceeding. The penis 
(A a, B/) always lies in the upper and fore part of the neck of 
the mass ; it is firmly attached to the pubes by the suspensory 
ligament. The sheath of the penis is sometimes specially 
hypertrophied, standing out as a sort of twisted ram's-horn- 
like projection on the anterior surface of the tumour; this, 
however, is unusual. Generally the sheath of the penis is in- 
corporated in the scrotal mass, the prepuce being dragged on 
and inverted so as to form a long channel leading to the glans 
penis and opening (A I) half-way down, or even lower, on the 
face of the tumour. The testes (Ac), buried in the central 
blubbery tissue, usually lie towards the back of the tumour, 
one on each side, in large tu- 
mours generally nearer the lower 
than the upper part. They are 
more or less firmly attached to 
the under part of the scrotum 
by the hypertrophied remains 
of the gubernaculum testium 
(Ad) a feature to be specially 
borne in mind by the surgeon. 
As a rule both testes carry 
large hydroceles with thickened 
tunicas vaginales. The sper- 
matic cords also (AJ, B^) are 
thickened and greatly elong- 
ated. The arteries supplying 
these enormous growths are of 
considerable size ; the vein's, too, 
are very large, and, as they 
permit regurgitation of blood 
from the trunk, are apt to bleed 
freely. 

Their importance. Beyond 
inconvenience caused by their 
weight, the presence of the 
cumbersome mass between the 
legs, the suffering attendant on 

recurring attacks of inflammation and elephantoid fever, the 
sexual disability, and the unsightliuess, these tumours are not 
of great importance ; they do not, as a rule, directly endanger 
life. They may grow rapidly or slowly ; they may attain a 
large size in two or three years, or they may be in existence 
for years and at the end of this time amount to little more 
than a slight thickening of the scrotum. Occasionally, in large 
tumours, portions of the mass become gangrenous, or abscess 
may form, and in these ways life may be endangered. 

Treatment. Scrotal tumour, as soon as it be- 
comes unsightly or inconvenient, should be removed. 
Often, after thorough removal of all the diseased 







Fig. 121. Diagram of anatomy of 
elephantiasis of scrotum. (For 
reference, see text.) 



728 FILAKIASIS [CHAP. 

integuments, elephantoid fever, which before may 
have been frequent, ceases to recur. 

Treatment preliminary to operation. If the 
tumour is of considerable size, the patient should 
keep his bed for a day or two before operation, the 
mass being suspended so as to drain it of fluid and 
blood. It is thus rendered lax, and the operator is 
enabled to ascertain by palpation the position of the 
testes and, if such chance to be present, of hernia 
a not very unusual complication. The possibility of 
undescended testes should not be overlooked. 

Operation. Before making provision for the pre- 
vention of haemorrhage the operator should mark out 
by shallow cuts the line at which he proposes to 
separate the tumour, care being taken that these 
guiding incisions run through and include only abso- 
lutely sound skin. If the latter precaution be neg- 
lected, disease is very liable to recur in the scar or 
flaps. First, the tumour is turned up and a shallow 
transverse cut is drawn in sound skin across the peri- 
neum in front of the anus. The tumour being allowed 
to fall down, a similar shallow cut is made across the 
pubes. The corresponding extremities of these two 
cuts are then united either by a straight cut or, if 
there be a little sound skin on the thigh aspects of 
the tumour, by semilunar incisions. 

Assistants then firmly draw down the scrotum as 
far as possible, and the surgeon, if he deem it desirable, 
applies elastic webbing over the mass so as to expel 
the blood it contains. Next, a stout rubber cord is 
wound, figure-of-eight fashion, round the neck of the 
tumour, well above the guiding incisions, and over 
the pelvis, and firmly secured (McLeod) (Fig. 122). 
Or the rubber cord is wound round the neck of the 
tumour only, being kept in place by four strips of 
bandage passing under this cord, one on each side of 
the scrotum before and behind, and firmly tied over 
another strip of bandage encircling the waist. 

The testes and spermatic cords are first dissected 
out through long perpendicular incisions made in front, 
the remains of the gubernacula testes being hooked up 
with the finger and snipped through with scissors. The 



XL] SCROTAL ELEPHANTIASIS 729 

channe of the prepuce is next slit up, the incision being 
carried up to the pubic limiting mark. The penis can 
then be shelled out, the prepuce being first cut through 
around the corona glandis. If lateral flaps can be formed 
of sound skin they are then dissected up. The perineal 
and pubic incisions are now deepened and, assistants 
holding the testes and penis well out of the way, the 
neck of the tumour is cut through close to the perineum 
and pubes. Gaping vessels are all carefully ligatured, 
redundant tunica vaginalis if hydroceles be present 
being excised. The rubber cord is then removed. 




Fig. 122. Rubber cord in position. (McLeod.)' 

When haemorrhage has been controlled, the pos- 
terior halves of the flaps are brought together by 
sutures, the anterior halves being united over the 
testes to the pubic cut. The penis will therefore 
emerge from the point where the horizontal line meets 
the perpendicular line of what is now a T- or Y-shaped 
wound. If no flaps have been made, the testes may 
be fixed by stitching any tag of tissue connected with 
them to the perineum, and the dimensions of the 
wound reduced as much as possible by stitching up 
the corners at the pubes and perineum. 

In dressing it is of importance that the raw sur- 
faces be covered by some aseptic non-fibrous protective 
such as oiled silk before the antiseptic dressing is 



730 FILARIASIS 

applied. A fibrous dressing next the raw surfaces is 
troublesome, as it sticks to the wound and is painful 
and difficult to remove. The dressing should be mas- 
sive, well padded, and kept in place by an eight-tailed 
bandage secured in front and behind to a strap round 
the waist, a hole being cut in front for the penis to 
emerge. The large wound generally does well. Skin 
grafting should be practised freely and early, especially 
round the root of the penis. 

Mortality from operation. The mortality from 
these formidable-looking operations, if they are care- 




Fig. 123. Elephantiasis of labia majora. (After Nunez.) 

fully done, is small, and need not exceed 5 per cent. 
The results are very satisfactory, as a rule, the 
functions of the organs being retained or restored. 

Elephantiasis of the arms. This is com- 
paratively rare. Allowing for the differences be- 
tween the upper and lower extremities as regards 
gravitation of fluids, the symptoms and pathology 
of elephantiasis of the arm are the same as those of 
elephantiasis of the legs. Beyond the judicious em- 
ployment of massage and elastic bandaging, little can 
be done in the way of treatment. 

Elephantiasis ot the vulva and mammae. 
Elephantiasis of the vulva (Figs. 123, 124) and 
mammse (Fig. 125) is still rarer. Where growth has 




Fig 124. -Elephantiasis of vulva. (Photograph by Dr. Walter 
H. B. Macdonald.) 



731 




Fig. 125. -Elephantiasis of mamma ; left leg and foot also affected 
(Photograph by Dr. Davies, Samoa.) 



732 



ELEPHANTIASIS 



733 



become inconveniently large the diseased tissues should 
be removed. Instances are on record in which the 
integuments of the mammae have become so thickened, 
heavy, and elongated that the organ has descended to 
the pubes and even to the knee. One such tumour 
weighed 21 Ib. after removal. Tumours of the labia 
or of the clitoris, similarly, may attain a great size 
8 or 10 Ib., or even more. 





Fig. 12(3. Pedunculated groin elephantiasis. (Photograph 
by Dr. Daniels.) 

Elephantiasis of limited skin areas. 

Corney states that pedunculated elephantoid tumours, 
springing from the groin or from the anterior sur- 
face of the thigh, are not uncommon in Fiji. One 
such tumour which he removed weighed 20 Ib. 
Daniels has seen, both in Fiji and in Demerara, 
several cases of this description (Fig. 126). Silcock 
describes a pedunculated tumour of this nature that 



734 FILARIASIS [CHAP. 

he removed from the neck of an East Indian, and 
which weighed, after removal, 30 Ib. I have often 
seen limited areas of elephantoid thickening of the 
skin, particularly on the thighs. These conditions 
are easily dealt with by simple operations. 

Chylous dropsy of the tunica vaginalis, 
and of the peritoneum ; chylous diarrhoea. 
Chylous dropsy of the tunica vaginalis is not an un- 
usual occurrence in the tropics. A fluctuating swell- 
ing of the tunica vaginalis, which does not transmit 
light, and which is associated possibly with lymph 
scrotum, with varicose groin glands, with chyluria, or 
with microfilariae in the blood, would suggest a diagno- 
sis of this condition. These collections of chylous fluid 
in the tunica vaginalis generally contain enormous 
numbers of microfilarise. Large numbers of cretified 
adult filarise have been found in the thickened tunica 
vaginalis and in the epididymis in this condition. 

These chyloceles may be treated as ordinary hydro- 
celes, either by aseptic incision or by injection. 

Filarial orchitis with effusion into the tunica 
vaginalis, according to Maitland, is best treated by 
incision of the tunica vaginalis, turning out any clot 
that may be found in the sac, and stuffing the latter 
with iodoform gauze. This procedure, he says, gives 
immediate relief. 

Chylous dropsy of the peritoneum and chylous 
diarrhoea of filarial origin are very rare. 

Prophylaxis of filarial disease. The pre- 
vention of filarial disease resolves itself into anti- 
mosquito measures and protection from mosquito bite. 
With this in view, unprotected wells, tanks, or stag- 
nant pools must not be permitted in the neighbour- 
hood of dwelling-houses. The influence of these in 
spreading filarial disease has been ably demonstrated 
by Daniels in Demerara, and by Low in Barbados. 
All vessels used for storing water should be emptied 
at least once a week. The mosquito net is indispens- 
able in filarial as well as in malarial countries. 

The subjects of filariasis should be regarded as 
dangers to themselves and to the community and be 
compelled to sleep under mosquito nets. 



XL] 



FILARIA PERSTANS 



735 



FILARIA PERSTANS, Manson, 1891. (Plate X., Fig. 2.) 

Synonym. Acanthocheilonemaperstans, Railliet, Henry, 
and Langeron, 1912. 

Geographical range. This parasite is very com- 
mon in the blood of the natives of large districts in tropical 
Africa. I have found it in natives from Old Calabar and 
from the basin of the Congo both in the coast negroes and 
in those from the interior. Annett, Button, and Elliot 
report its presence in many places in Southern Nigeria, in 
Northern Nigeria, in Lagos, in the Gold and Ivory Coasts, 
in the Kroo Coast, and in Sierra Leone. .In Northern 
Rhodesia it is very common ; I found it in 30 per cent, of a 
number of the natives 
whom I examined. On 
the Congo in parts it 
occurs in half the popu- 
lation. Prof. Firket, of 
Liege, has confirmed 
this observation as re- 
gards the Congo district. 
Cook, Hodges, and Low 
have found the parasite 
to be extremely com- 
mon in Uganda, where, 
in some districts, Low 
has found it in 90 per 
cent, of the population. 
Sometimes it occurs 
along with mf. loa, mf. 
bancrofti, and, in British 
Guiana, as stated, with 
mf. ozzardi, in the same 
individual. I have never 
found it in West Indian 
negroes, nor, in fact, in 
natives of any country 
except those of tropical 

Africa, and in the aborigines of Demerara. I have frequently 
found it in Europeans who had resided on the Congo. 

Its Characters. Microjilaria perstans observes no 
periodicity, being present in the blood both by day and by 
night. In this respect it resembles mf. demarquaii and mf. 
ozzardi ; and, like these, in size, shape, and anatomical detail 
it differs very materially from inf. bancrofti and mf. loa. The 
number of microfilariae in the peripheral circulation may vary 
considerably, but there is no marked difference between day 
and night. Their special seat of selection is not the peripheral 
blood, but that of the heart, lungs, aorta and other large 
vessels. They have not been found in the spleen, and only 
rarely in the liver and pancreas. 

The larva in the blood measures, on an average, 0'2 mm. 




Fig. 127. Tail of adult F. perstans. 



736 FILARIASIS [CHAP. 

in length by 0-0045 mm. in breadth; but, as it possesses 
in a remarkable degree the power to elongate and to shorten 
itself, these measurements do not always apply. It is mani- 
festly much smaller than mf. bancrofii and mf. loa, and is 
further distinguished from these microfilarise by the entire 
absence of a sheath, and by the characters of its caudal end, 
which is invariably truncated and abruptly rounded off. 
The taper which terminates in the tail extends through quite 
two-thirds of the entire length of the animal. Further, 
if the head be carefully observed with a high power, a 
fang can generally be easily seen much more easily than 
the corresponding structure in mf. bancrofti in constant play, 
shot out and retracted. The V spot is about 03 mm. from 
the cephalic extremity. There is no marked tail spot. No 
hooked cephalic prepuce can be made out. According to 
Fiilleborn, no red staining " granular mass " can be demonstrated 
as in the case of mf. bancrofti and mf. loa. Its movements 
also differ from those of mf, bancrofti, for it not only wriggles 
about, just as that parasite does, but it indulges in long ex- 
cursions through the blood, moving freely all over the slide, 
locomoting in fact very much in the same way as mf. bancrofti 
does in the mosquito's stomach after it has cast its sheath. 

Adult form. The adult form, discovered by Daniels in 
Demerara Indians, and subsequently identified by myself as 
that of F. perstans, is, like F. bancrofti, a long, cylindrical 
filiform nematode. The body is smooth, without markings ; 
the mouth simple and unarmed. The tail in both sexes 
is peculiar and characteristic ; it is incurvated, and the 
chitinous covering at the extreme tip is split up as it were 
into two minute triangular appendages, giving it a mitred 
appearance (Fig. 127). The adult female measures TO to 80 
mm. in length by 0*12 mm. in breadth. The head is club- 
shaped and measures 0-07 mm. in diameter. The genital 
pore opens at 0'6 mm. from the head. The anus opens at 
the apex of a papilla situated in the concavity of the curve 
formed by the tail. The diameter of the tail just before 
termination is 0'02 mm. The male is smaller than the 
female; it measures 45 mm. in length by 0'06 mm. in 
breadth. The diameter of the head is 0'04 mm. Close to the 
opening of the cloaca there are four pairs of preanal and one 
pair of postanal papillae, and, according to Leiper, another 
small pair are situated midway between these groups. Two 
unequal spicules may sometimes be seen protruding from 
the cloaca. So far the adult forms have been found only 
in the connective tissues at the root of the mesentery, behind 
the abdominal aorta, and beneath the pericardium. 

Life-history. Very little is known of the life-history 
of F. perstans. Although it has a wide geographical range, 
this filaria appears to be limited in its topography to areas 
covered by dense forest growth and abounding in swamps. 
In Kavirondo, where the forest disappears and the land is 
covered with scrub and short grass, it is not found ; likewise it 



XL] MICROFILARIA DEMARQUAII 737 

is not found on the grassy plains of the highlands of British 
East Africa. Towns and cultivated areas are free from it. 
This peculiar limitation of its distribution would indicate an 
intermediary restricted to similar stations, certain Tabanidae, 
for instance, or certain species of sylvan mosquitoes. In order 
to find the intermediary host of F. perstans, Low made 
numerous experiments with many different species of mos- 
quitoes (Culex fatigans, C. atratus, C. viridus, C. Inteolateralis, 
C. quasigelidus ; Anopheles argyrotar sis, A. costalis, A. funestus ; 
Stethomyia nimbus ; Janthinosoma musica ; Mansonia qfricana ; 
Uranotcenia cceruleocephala ; Taniorhynchus fuscopennatus] and 
other blood-sucking insects (Pulex irritans, Sarcopsyilapenetram, 
Pediculus capitis, and P. vestimentorum). These insects were 
either caught in the huts of infected persons or were reared 
from the larva and then fed on infected persons. After a 
certain time they were dissected, but, with one exception, 
the results were negative. In one isolated instance two 
developmental forms were seen between the thoracic muscles 
of a 1'ceniorhynchus fuscopennatus reared from the larva and 
fed on infected persons. Fiilleborn has found similar develop- 
mental forms once in An. macuUpennis. Christy suggests 
that the true intermediary host of F. perstans is Ornithodoros 
moubata, a tick of the sub-family Argasince. He gives no 
evidence in support of this view, which is contradicted by 
the facts of geographical and topographical distribution. 

Pathology. So far as known, F. perstans has no great 
pathological importance ; the presence of the adult parasites 
in the mesentery appears to cause little harm to the host. 

MICROFILARIA DEMARQUAII, Manson, 1895. (Plate X., 
Fig. 4.) 

In examining blood sent me by Dr. Newsam from natives 
of St. Vincent, West Indies, I found this microfilaria in 
several individuals in 10 out of 152 examined. It resembled 
mf. bancrofti and mf. loa so far as shape is concerned, but dif- 
fered from them in size, its average measurements being, 
according to Low, 0-2 mm. by 0-005 mm. It is sharp-tailed, 
has no sheath, and observes no periodicity, being present in 
the peripheral circulation both by day and by night. Its 
movements are very active ; it can shorten or elongate itself, 
and not only wriggle about very actively, but travel from 
place to place on the fresh blood slide. Nothing is known of 
its life-history or pathological bearings. 

I have met with the same parasite in the blood of natives 
of St. Lucia, W.I. , an observation confirmed by Galgey, Low, 
and St. George Gray. Low has also found it in the blood of 
natives of Dominica and Trinidad. Usually some eight or 
ten parasites are found in a preparation of ordinary dimen- 
sions ; occasionally instances of high degrees of infection are 
met with, in which hundreds of microfilariae can be counted on 
every slide. Its topographical distribution is singularly cir- 
cumscribed, even in the endemic districts. 



738 FILARIASIS [CHAP. 

Galgey found five adult female filariae in the omental 
tissues of a patient in whose blood mf. demarquaii had been 
discovered during life. No male was found. 

These worms closely resembled the adult F. ozzardi, but, 
according to Daniels, exhibited structural differences, especially 
as regards the shape of the head and tail, which led him to con- 
clude that they are specifically distinct. They measured from 
65-80 mm. in length by 0-2 1-0 -25 mm. in breadth. The head 
has a diameter of from 0'09 to ! mm. The mouth is terminal. 
The genital pore opens at 0-76 mm. from the head. The 
alimentary canal is nearly straight, and terminates in an anus 
which is subterminal. The opening of the anus is marked by 
a slight papilla. The tail is curved and rapidly diminishes in 
size just below the anal papilla. A marked cuticular thicken- 
ing covers the tip of the tail. The diameter near the tip of 
the tail, before its termination, is 0-03 mm. F. demarquaii is a 
thicker worm than F. perstans. It differs from F. bancrofti 
and F. ozzardi in the greater size of the head, in the smaller 
tail, and particularly in the marked cuticular thickening at 
the tip of the tail. This thickening is knobby and bifid, but 
the divisions are not so well marked as in F. perstans. The 
intermediate host has not been discovered. Low believes it 
to be a rare species of mosquito. It is quite possible that 
some of the minute, sharp-tailed filarias (F. ozzardi} of British 
Guiana are the same species. 

I have also found a minute, non-sheathed, sharp-tailed 
microfilaria, closely resembling mf. demarquaii, in the blood 
of natives of New Guinea. Whether these various minute, 
sharp-tailed, non-sheathed embryos belong to one or to several 
species it is impossible to decide until the adult forms of each 
have been discovered and carefully compared. 

FILARIA OZZARDI, Manson, 1897 

Some years ago I received from Dr. Ozzard, British Guiana, 
a number of blood films prepared from aboriginal Carib 
Indians inhabiting the back-country of that colony. Although 
the negroes and other inhabitants of the littoral and settled 
districts of British Guiana are very subject to F. bancrofti and 
to elephantiasis, in none of the considerable number of slides 
of Carib blood from time to time received from Drs. Ozzard 
and Daniels have I once encountered mf. bancrofti. Daniels 
records an identical experience. I am assured by Dr. Ozzard 
that elephantiasis is unknown amongst these people. On 
examining the blood slides referred to, I discovered certain 
nematode larvae with characters so peculiar that I suspected 
they represented at least one new species of blood worm, which 
I called, provisionally, F. ozzardi. At least half the slides 
examined contained these parasites, some slides only one or 
two, other slides as many as forty or fifty. 

In size and shape five out of six of the embryos resembled 
very closely mf. perstans (p. 735) that is to say, they were 
blunt-tailed, had no sheath, and were very minute (0'173 to 



XL] FILARIA OZZARDI 739 

0-240 mm. by 0'0043 to O'OOo mm., Daniels). But along with 
the blunt-tailed filarise, and on the same slides, there occurred 
a sharp-tailed form, also very minute, and resembling mf. de- 
marquaii. Drs. Ozzard and Daniels confirmed this discovery. 
These observers found that both the sharp-tailed and the blunt- 
tailed worms behave in fresh blood on the microscope slide 
much in the same way that mf. perstans and mf. demarquaii 
do; that is, they wriggle about very actively, at the same 
time retracting, elongating, and locomoting in the blood. 

Parental form. For a time the relationship of these micro- 
filariae, both to each other and to mf. demarquaii, remained 
undetermined. Later Daniels found parental filarise male 
and female at the post-mortem examinations of two Demerara 
Indians whose blood, during life, contained both blunt- and 
sharp-tailed larvae. The mature worms, apparently numer- 
ous, were about 3 in. in length and very slender about one- 
half the diameter of F. bancrofti. They were, therefore, not 
F. magalhdesi (p. 741). The head was somewhat club-shaped 
and showed no papillae. The tail of the male was much 
coiled, and carried at least one long protruding spicule. 
These worms were found in one case in the mesentery and in 
the fat at the base of the mesentery ; in the other " not only 
in mesentery and abdominal fat, but also in the subpericardial 
fat." The embryos in utero, Daniels stated, were all blunt- 
tailed. I had an opportunity of comparing these worms with 
unquestionable adult F. perstans. I found them to be identical. 
The peculiar bifid arrangement of the termination of the tail 
was quite characteristic of that parasite (p. 736). 

Later, Daniels found at the post-mortem examination of a 
third aboriginal, in whose blood both the blunt-tailed (F. per- 
stans) and the sharp-tailed microfilariae had been found (and 
no others), a few adult F. peratans and, in addition, a female 
and portion of a male worm of quite a different species pre- 
sumably the parental form of the sharp-tailed larvae. The two 
latter adult worms lay close together, and were believed to 
have been located in the subperitoneal connective tissues in 
the anterior abdominal wall. Except in the matter of the 
caudal extremity, which was slightly bulbous and without 
cuticular thickening, in size and structure they closely re- 
sembled .F. bancrofti. Daniels has drawn up a table (p. 741) of 
the leading dimensions of the three species F. bancrofti, F. 
perstans, and of this possibly new filaria for which I propose to 
retain provisionally the name F. ozzardi.* (Fig. 128.) 

* It now seems probable that there is but one species, F. 
demarquaii. In this event the other name, in conformity with 
the rules of nomenclature, would ha.ve to be dropped ; but as the 
name F. demarquaii has already been used erroneously for micro- 
tilaria bancrofti, it cannot be retained for a different parasite. 
The name F. ozzardi therefore succeeds to F. demarquaii. Leiper 
affirms that the recorded adults of F. ozzardi (as distinguished 
from those of F. demarquaii} are undoubtedly specimens of F. 
bancrofti. 



740 



MICROFILARM 



[CHAP. 




A.-P 




Fig. 128. A, Scheme for the measurement of certain fixed points of 
structure in microfilariae, of value in the diagnosis of species. B 
shows that even in a shrunken specimen the measurements retain 
their same proportionate value. (After Fiilleborn.) 

Measurements: 1, Prom the anr. extremity to the nerve ring (N.) ; 2, to the 
midd'e of the excretory pore (Ex.P.) ; 3, to the nucleolus of the excretory 
cell (Ex.Z.); 4, to the nucleolus of the genital ceil (G.i); 5, to the middle of 
the anal pore (A.P.); 6, to the terminal tail nucleus. 



XL] 



FILARIA MAGALHAESI 



741 



TABLE OF LEADING DIMENSIONS OF FILARL'E 





FILARIA 

BANCROFTI 


FlLARIA PERSTANS 


FILARIA 

OZZARDI 




Mm. 


Mm. 


Mm. 


Length 


85 to 90 


70 to 80 


81 


Greatest thickness 


0-20 to 0-26 0-120 


0-210 


Diameter of head ... 


0-055 0-070 


0-050 


Diameter of neck 


0-049 0-054 


0-039 


Distance from head 








(1) Of vaginal outlet ... 


0-710 


0-600 


0-710 


(2) Of ovarian opening ... 
Distance from tail of anal 


0-920 ? 


0-850 


papilla 


0-225 


0-145 


0-230 


Termination of tail 


Blunt, cir- 


Slightly bulbous: 


Bulbous 




cular, not covered by thick- 


cuticle not 




bulbous, ened cuticle pro- 


thickened. 






longed into two 








triangular appen- 








dages. 





FILARIA MAGALHAESI, R. Blanch., 1895 

Professor Magalhaes describes two sexually mature filarial 
haematozoa, male and female, which were found lying in the 
left ventricle of the heart of a child in Kio de Janeiro. No 
information was received as to the nature of the disease of 
which the child died, nor had any examination of the blood 
been made during life. The parasites were cylindrical, 
capillary, opalescent, white, uniform in thickness except, where 
the body tapered towards the tail and at the club-shaped oral 
end. The mouth was simple, circular, unarmed ; the cuticle 
marked with fine transverse striations. The female worm 
measured 155mm. in length by 0*7 mm. in diameter, the male 
83 mm. in length by 0'4 mm. in diameter. The tail of the 
latter was provided with four pairs of preanal and four pairs of 
postanal papillae, and two spicules. Manifestly this parasite 
is specifically distinct from F. bancrofti and the other blood 
worms described above. Nothing is known of its life-history, 
nor of the associated pathology. 



CHAPTER XLI 

I. PARASITES OF THE CIRCULATORY AND 
LYMPHATIC SYSTEMS (concluded) 

SCHISTOSOMUM H^EMATOBIUM (Bilh. - v. Sieb., 

1852) 

Definition of endemic li;rni:it in-iu. A chronic 
endemic disease caused by Schistosomum hcematobium 
( = ilharzia hcematobia, Distomum hcematobium), 
giving rise to cystitis and hsematuria, or to proctitis, 
or to other symptoms, and characterized by the pre- 
sence of the ova of that parasite in the urine, or in 
the faeces, or in both. 

History and geographical distribution. 
The frequency of hsematuria in the natives of Egypt, 
and in visitors to that country, has long been re- 
marked. The explanation was supplied by Bilharz, 
who, in 1851, discovered the cause in a peculiar 
digenetic trematode which Cobbold proposed to name 
Bilharzia in honour of its discoverer. 

In 1864 Dr. John Harley recognized the charac- 
teristic ova in cases of hsematuria from Natal. The 
disease has since been found in many other parts of 
Africa, more particularly along the eastern side of 
the continent as far south as Port Elizabeth. Balfour 
found it in the Soudan. According to Low it is very 
frequent in the natives of Uganda. It is met with 
in West Africa and is very common in Rhodesia. 
In Egypt, judging from Bilharz's, Griesinger's, and 
Sonsino's post-mortem records, it is present in quite 
one-half of the population ; in one village, Marg, 
Leiper found that no fewer than 90 per cent, of the 
children were infected. It occurs also in Arabia, 
Syria, Persia, Mesopotamia, Cyprus, and Mauritius. 
Nelson records two cases in Western Australia in 
individuals who had never been out of that country ; 
742 



THE PARASITE 



743 



apparently the parasite was introduced by a man 
who had served as a soldier in the Boer War. As 
this shows that the conditions (intermediary host, 
etc.) are present, the spread of bilharzia disease in 
Australia may be anticipated. 

Etiology. Schistosomum hcematobium (Figs. 129, 130, 
131) is a bisexual trematode belonging to the family Schisto- 
somidce. The male is white, cylindroid, 11 to 15 mm. in length 
by 1 mm. in breadth. It pos- 
sesses an oral and a ventral 
sucker of about equal size and 
placed close together. The 
cylindrical appearance of the 
worm is produced by the ven- 
tral infolding of the two sides 
of what would otherwise be a 
flat body. By this infolding a 
gynaecophoric canal is formed, 
in which the female can be 
partially enclosed. The outer 
surface of the body is closely 
beset with small cuticular pro- 
minences. The female is rather 
darker in colour than the male, 
considerably longer (20 mm.), 
more filiform, her middle being 
usually enclosed in the gyna3co- 
phoric canal referred to, whilst 
her anterior and posterior por- 
tions remain free. The genital 
openings of the sexes face each 
other, and are placed immedi- 
ately posterior to the ventral 
sucker. The sexes live apart 
while young, but on reaching 
maturity the female enters the 
gyna3cophoric canal of the male. 

These parasites are found in 

the blood of the portal vein, in its mesenteric and splenic 
branches, and in the vesical, uterine, and haemorrhoidal veins ; 
they have also been found in the vena cava. Sonsino con- 
siders that, if searched for, they would probably be found else- 
where in the circulation. Their numbers vary considerably. 
Sonsino reports finding in one case forty ; in another case 
Kartulis found 300 in the portal vein and its branches. Looss 
has seen the submucous tissue of the bladder so rich in worms 
that a pair could be found in every area of half a centimetre 
square. 

The ovum. On microscopical examination the uterus of 
the female bilharzia is found to be stuffed with ova of a 




(B 



Fig. 129. Schistosomum hsema- 
tobium, male and female. 
(Partly after Looss.) 



744 



ENDEMIC H^MATURIA 



[CHAP. 



peculiar and characteristic shape. They are oval, each 
egg on an average measuring about 0-16 mm. in length by 
0-06 mm. in breadth, and one end of the ovum is provided 
with a short, stout, and very definite spine. (Plate XIII. , 
Fig. 1.) 

The exact nature of the process by which the ova leave the 
body of the human host has not been satisfactorily explained. 
Apparently the female worm migrates from time to time from 
the larger veins to their smaller radicles, and in these deposits 
her ova. The walls of the bladder are the favourite situations 
for this purpose. Afterwards the eggs are somehow carried, 
possibly aided by the spine with which they are provided, 
towards the surface of the mucous membrane, and then, 
falling into the bladder, are voided with the urine, a certain 
amount of blood escaping at the same time. 

The free larva (Fig. 132). In newly voided urine the ovum 





Fig. 130. Schistosomum haema- 
tobium ; anterior end of male. 
(After Looss.) 



Fig. 131. Schistosomum hsematobium. 
Diagram of transverse section of male 
and female. 



presents a somewhat brownish appearance, and generally con- 
tains a ciliated larva (miracidium). After a time the larva may 
escape through a longitudinal rupture in the shell. It then 
swims about, but, unless supplied with fresh water, soon 
perishee. If the urine be freely diluted with water, the larva 
not only escapes more quickly from the shell but also con- 
tinues to live, swimming and gyrating very actively, for a 
considerable time. While swimming, the body of the little 
animal undergoes many changes of shape. For the most part, 
when advancing, it is oblong, tapering somewhat posteriorly ; 
when more stationary it tends to assume a spherical form. It 
moves by means of the cilia which, with the exception of the 
minute papillary beak, thickly cover the entire body. On 
carefully examining the larva, a canal may be traced from the 
beak into what looks like a rudimentary stomach; on both 
sides of this, two much smaller gland-like organs can be seen, 
from each of which a delicate tube passes forwards and opens, 
apparently, somewhere in the neighbourhood of the beak. 




CM' 

oi 












XLl] 



THE PARASITE 



745 



The bulk of the larva is occupied by a number of sarcode 
globules. A careful description of the miracidium is given by 
Brock (Lancet, Sept. 9, 1893, p. 625), to which the reader is 
referred for further details. 

Life-history. Beyond its first stage of free-swimming 
ciliated larva, the extracorporeal life of Schistosomum htema- 
tobium was until quite recently unknown. Leiper's remark- 
able work in Egypt, however, has completely filled in this 
hiatus in our knowledge of the life-history of this important 
parasite. It is therefore no longer necessary to describe, 
as in previous editions of this manual, the many attempts 
that had been made previously to trace the progress 
of the miracidium. Leiper has shown (1916) that the mira- 
cidia of S. hcematobium and of S. man- 
soni, after escape from the egg, enter 
a fresh- water snail: in the case of S. 
hcematobium, a Bulinus (_B. dybowski, 
E. innesi, B.contortus} (Figs. 133, 134, 
135); in the case of S. mansoni, Plan- 
orbis boissyi (Fig. 136) small molluscs 
abounding in the irrigation canals of 
Egypt. The miracidia, after pene- 
trating the integument of the mollusc, 
pass to the liver, wherein they develop 
into sporocysts and daughter sporo- 
cysts (Fig. 137), multiplying to such 
an extent that the entire liver becomes 
permeated with the long, delicate, 
transparent tube-like bodies. Presently 
numberless bifid-tailed cercarise de- 
velop within the sporocysts (Figs. 138, 
139), and on maturing escape spon- 
taneously into the surrounding water. 
Opportunity occurring, the now free 
cercarise penetrate the skin of some 
suitable vertebrate man, mouse, rat, 
monkey dropping their tails in the passage. Entering lym- 
phatics or blood-vessels, they proceed to the liver of the 
definitive host, wherein, in the course of about six weeks, they 
attain sexual maturity and produce terminal- or lateral-spined 
eggs according to species. To obtain these results in the 
laboratory, all that is necessary is to place the living experi- 
mental animal, or a part tail, limb, etc. of such animal, in 
the water into which cercarise have escaped from the snail, 
care being taken that the dose of cercariae is not too large, as 
in such case the excessive invasion of the liver may prove 
rapidly fatal. The experimenter should be very careful to 
avoid bringing cercariae- containing water into contact with 
his own skin. As molluscs are liable to invasion by the mira- 
cidia, sporocysts, and cercarise of many species of trematodes, 
it is necessary for those who would confirm Leiper's dis- 
coveries that they should be able to recognize the specific 




Fig. 132. Schistosomum 
hsematobium miraci- 
dium. (After Looss.) 



746 



ENDEMIC H^MATURIA [CHAP. 



features of the cercarise of S. hcematobium and S. mansoni. 
Leiper lays stress on four points, viz. : (1) that these cercariae 



Fig. 133. Bulinus dybowski. (After Leipe 




Fig. 134. Bulinus innesi. (After Leiper.) 





Fig. 135. Bulinus contortus. (After Leiper.) 





Fig. 136. Planorbis boissyi. (After Leiper.) 

have no pharynx (an adult character) ; (2) they have forked 
tails; (3) they have no " eyespots," that is, two minute col- 
lections of dark pigment located in the anterior third of the 
body on either side of the middle line between the suckers a 



XLI] THE PARASITE 747 

feature of certain other fork-tailed cercariae, but absent in 
bilharzia ; (4) the presence of two sets of glands communicat- 
ing with the mouth, and lying on both sides of the posterior 
end of the body. Leiper has shown further, to use his own 
words, " that those animals infected with cercariae from 
Bulinus dybowski, etc., always produce adult worms which 
give rise to terminal-spined eggs only, while those infected 
with cercariae from Planorbis boissyi give rise equally con- 
stantly to lateral-spined eggs. In no case do both varieties 
arise from the same intermediate host. Moreover, the adult 

worms reared from these two sources show constant 

morphological differences." In S. hcematobium, reared from 
Bulinus, there are four or five large testes and the gut 




Fig. 137. Bilharzia daughter-sporocysts teased from liver. (Leiper.) 

branches do not unite until late, resulting in a short caecum. 
In S. mansoni, reared from Planorbis boissyi, there are eight or 
nine testes, and the gut branches unite early, forming a long 
caecum. In S. hcematobium the uterus contains many eggs, 
whereas in & mansoni it is short and contains only one or 
two eggs. S. mansoni, unlike S. hcematobium, always causes a 
heavy deposition of black granules in the liver of the human 
host. " Lastly, as regards- habitat. The males of S. hama- 
tobium appear to leave the liver early and to pass down into 
the finer branches of the mesenteric veins before they attain 
maturity. The females found in the gynaecophoric canal are 
diminutive. The males of S. mansoni remain in the liver until 
the females in copula begin to lay eggs, and large numbers of 
lateral-spined eggs are frequently laid in series by coupled 
worms in the veins even of the edge of the liver." 



748 ENDEMIC H^MATURIA [CHAP. 

Lutz, in Brazil, has confirmed Leiper's discovery of the 
role of the genus Planorbis in regard to S. mansoni, the species 
in that country being P. olivaceus ; and Becker in South Africa 
has similarly confirmed Leiper's work as regards S. hama- 
tobium, the efficient species being Physopsis africana, a mollusc 
closely allied to Bulinus. 

Symptoms. The symptoms produced by schisto- 
somum vary in degree within very wide limits. In 
the vast majority of instances the patient experiences 



Fig. 138. Bilharzia hsem'atobia cer- Fig. 139. Bilharzia mansoni cer- 
caria in Bulinus species. (Leiper.) caria in Planorbis boissyi. (Leiper.) 

no trouble whatever ; in other instances the suffering 
is very great. Indirectly, from the serious nature of 
the lesions of the urinary organs to which it may give 
rise, schistosomum is an occasional cause of death. 

The most characteristic symptom of its presence 
in the wall of the bladder is the passage of blood at 
the end of micturition, with or without a sense of 
urinary irritation. The quantity of blood passed and 
the degree of irritation are increased by exercise, by 
dietetic indiscretions, and by all such causes as are 
calculated to induce or aggravate cystitis. As a rule, 



XLI] SYMPTOMS 749 

it is only the last few drops of urine that contain 
blood ; sometimes, however, the haemorrhage is more 
extensive, and then the entire bulk of the urine 
may be blood-tinged. Occasionally, clots are passed. 

If in a case of moderate infection the urine be 
passed into a 'glass and held up to the light, minute 
flocculi or coiled-up mucoid-looking threads will be 
seen floating about in the fluid. If it be allowed 
to stand, the flocculi, and perhaps minute blood -clots, 
will subside to the bottom of the vessel ; these, on 
being taken up with a pipette and placed under the 
microscope, will be found to contain, besides blood cor- 
puscles and catarrh al products, large numbers of the 
characteristic spined ova. 

In doubtful cases, where 
ova are few, the best way 
to find them is to get the 
patient to empty the bladder 
and to catch in a watch-glass 
the last few drops of urine 
which can be forced out by 
straining; these invariably 

pnntnin rwa A Inw rnwfrnf Fi %- 140.-Section through nu- 

contain ova. A low power cleus ^ { urinary calculus 

the micrOSCOpe suffices, and containing ova of Schisto- 

. , , j. . so mum haeinatobium. 

is best tor diagnosis. 

Endemic hsematuria lasts for months or years. 
Recovery is rarely complete. In ordinary cases, pro- 
vided no reinfection take place, the haematuria tends 
to decrease, although ova may continue for years to 
be found in the last few drops of urine passed. In 
severe cases, sooner or later, signs of cystitis supervene 
and give rise to a great deal of suffering. Not in- 
frequently the ova become the nuclei for stone, and 
symptoms of urinary calculus are superadded. (Fig. 
140.) Sometimes the pathological changes induced 
by the presence of the parasite in the bladder lead to 
the development of new growth, in which event the 
symptoms become more urgent and the ha3maturia 
perhaps excessive. Hypertrophy, contraction, and 
even dilatation of the bladder, are not unusual. 
Besides the bladder symptoms there may be signs of 
prostatic disease, or of disease of the vesiculse semi- 




750 ENDEMIC H^EMATUKIA [CHAP. 

nales causing spermatorrhoea. In the latter case, 
ova may be detected in the semen. In other 
instances the ureters and kidneys become involved 
and grave disease of these organs ultimately ensues. 
In consequence of the suffering which these aggravated 
forms of infection produce, the patients become 
anaemic, wasted, debilitated, and a ready prey to 
intercurrent disease. 

Milton has pointed out the extreme frequency of 
urinary fistula in Egypt, the result of schistosomum 
disease of the urethra. These fistulae may occur any- 
where in the neighbourhood of the genitals, but are 
especially common in the perineum and posterior sur- 
face of the scrotum, and originate from schistosomum 
disease of the pubic surface or roof of the urethra 
just in front of the bulb, the eggs of the parasite 
being deposited in the mucous or submucous tissue. 
Stricture of the urethra is by no means uncommon 
from a similar cause, especially in the case of fistulse 
connected with the floor of the urethra. 

Yaginitis and cervicitis have been known to be 
produced by this parasite. On the vulva papillo- 
matous masses containing schistosomum ova are, 
according to Madden, very common. 

Besides the lesions of the genito-urinary organs, 
rectal symptoms have been described and the charac- 
teristic ova of S. hcematobium have been found in 
the rectum. Frequently, however, another species 
(S. mansoni), which invariably extrudes its eggs 
through the intestine, has been confounded with the 
old classic species. The intestinal lesions give rise 
to dysenteric-like symptoms. Very often mucus and 
blood are passed without any faecal matter, and the 
continuous straining may be distressing, especially 
when large polypoid masses protrude from the 
anus. I have seen a case (which had been diag- 
nosed and treated as syphilis) of which extensive 
condyloma-like growths around the anus, in the 
perineum and groin, and full of ova, were a re- 
markable feature. 

Pathological anatomy. The character of 
the changes brought about by S. hcematobium varies 



XLI] PATHOLOGICAL ANATOMY 75l 

very much according to the degree and the dura- 
tion of the infection. In almost every case of 
the Egyptian type of the disease the walls of the 
urinary bladder are early affected. All that may 
be apparent to the naked eye at this stage is 
a certain amount of injection of the small vessels 
of the mucosa vesicse, and, according to Sonsino, 
certain exceedingly minute vesicular or papular eleva- 
tions of the surface of this membrane. When these 
minute elevations are examined microscopically they 
are found to contain ova. Ova are also to be found 
in the dilated minute blood-vessels. Later, especially 
in the trigone of the bladder, there are found rounded 
patches of inflammatory thickening which project 
somewhat, are granular on the surface, and dense in 
consistence ; on section they creak under the knife as 
if they contained gritty particles. It is evident that 
these elevated^ thickened patches are the result of an 
inflammatory, process provoked by the clusters of ova 
which the microscope reveals scattered throughout 
their entire extent. The ova are principally deposited 
in the submucosa, less extensively in the mucous 
membrane itself, still less abundantly in the muscu- 
lar walls of the organ or in its subserous connective 
tissue. They tend to occur in groups, each of which 
is invested with a sort of connective-tissue capsule ; 
or they may be lying in small blood-vessels which 
they occlude. Some ova are seen to have undergone 
calcification ; others are still fresh, either segmenting, 
or already containing a miracidium. On the surface 
of the rounded patches already mentioned phosphatic 
deposits, also containing ova, are not uncommon ; 
and sometimes the patches present minute sloughs. 
Besides these indurated patches, various forms of 
polypoid excrescence sometimes ulcerated may pro- 
trude from the mucous surface into the cavity of the 
bladder. These various hyperplasise frequently con- 
tain the adult parasite as well as ova. 

In addition to what may be designated the spe- 
cific changes in the mucosa, the muscular coats of 
the bladder are generally hypertrophied. In conse- 
quence of this, as well as of the ingrowth of villosities 



752 ENDEMIC K&MATURIA [CHAP. 

and different forms of new growth, the capacity of 
the organ may be much diminished. Its mucous sur- 
face is generally coated with a sanguineous mucus 
containing myriads of ova. Gravel, or small stones 
generally phosphatic are sometimes found either 
embedded in lacunae in the hypertrophied and rough- 
ened bladder wall, or free in the cavity. Not infre 
quently a similar hyperplasia occurs in the ureters, 
and particularly towards their lower ends. In rare 
instances the pelvis of the kidney itself is affected. 
Obliteration of the ureter, both from small stones 
and from thickening of the mucous membrane, has 
sometimes been met with; this leads to dilatation 
of the pelvis and atrophy of the parenchyma of the 
kidney. It is easy to understand how, in time, these 
changes in the bladder and ureters may give rise to 
hydronephrosis, pyelitis, abscess of the kidney, and 
similar secondary affections. 

Hyperplasia from schistosomum infection may also 
occur in the vesiculae seminales, in the walls of the 
vagina, and in the cervix of the uterus, leading to 
corresponding bloody, ova-containing discharges. 

When the intestinal tract is involved, numerous 
polypoid adenomatous growths are found, especially 
in the rectum ; these usually slough off, leaving ulcer - 
ations with ragged edges. The coats of the gut 
become thickened and indurated owing to extensive 
fibrous tissue formation between the layers of the 
peritoneal attachments. 

It may be mentioned that schistosome ova in small 
numbers have been found in the liver, in gall-stones, 
in the lungs, in the heart, and in the kidneys. We 
have no knowledge of any definite pathological change 
entailed by their presence there. 

Tumours of schistosomum origin have sometimes 
been found in connection with the peritoneum and 
ligaments of the uterus. 

Diagnosis. The diagnosis of this disease is not 
difficult ; the presence of ova in the urine is decisive. 
In countries like Egypt, where the disease must often 
concur with chyluria, with stone, with vesical tumour, 
with gonorrhceal cystitis, and with pyelitis, as well as 



XLI] DIAGNOSIS PROGNOSIS 753 

with prostatic disease, care must be exercised in each 
particular case to separate the special factors to which 
the various symptoms are attributable. Thus in chy- 
luria concurring with schistosomum disease there will 
be chyle in the urine in addition to blood. In such a 
combination the clot which forms will be large, will 
contain oil granules and globules and, very probably, 
microfilarise, in addition to schistosomum ova ; more- 
over, the microfilarise will generally be detectable in 
the finger blood if looked for at night. Stone in the 
bladder, when suspected, has to be searched for with 
the sound. In gonorrhceal cystitis the history of 
gonorrhrea will be forthcoming. In prostatic disease 
enlargement of this organ may be made out. Difficulty 
may sometimes arise when ova are few in number, or 
when they have ceased altogether to come away in 
consequence of the death of the parent worms. The 
mischief wrought by the parasite remains, although 
the ova the most certain evidence of the parasite's 
previous presence may be discharged no longer. 
But, even if ova are very few, they may still be 
found in the last drop or two of urine passed. If 
they are no longer to be found in the urine, some- 
times, by scratching the surface of the bladder with 
a sound and examining the shreds of mucus so 
obtained, a few calcified, it may be, but present- 
ing the characteristic spine may be seen with the 
microscope. 

In rectal disease, if schistosomum be suspected, 
the mucus and faeces, or failing these one of the 
adenomatous growths, after removal by finger or 
forceps, should be examined for ova. 

Prognosis. An important element to be con- 
sidered in venturing on a prognosis is the long life of 
the parasite. Sonsino mentions a case in which living 
ova were still being passed nine years after their first 
appearance, and after all chance of reinfection had 
ceased. Another important element in prognosis is 
the degree of infection ; the greater the number of 
worms the more severe and the more extensive the 
disease they produce. As with filarial infection, the 
greater the number of cases in a district the greater 



754 ENDEMIC H^MATURIA [CHAP. 

the proportionate probability of severe infections being 
met with. The prognosis is practically that of a 
chronic cystitis depending on an irremediable, but not 
in itself fatal, cause. Much suffering may often be 
produced, and, as a consequence, anaemia and de- 
bility. Possibly calculus may be formed ; possibly 
grave renal disease may ensue ; possibly villous or 
epitheliomatous growths in the bladder. In the milder 
degrees of infection, which fortunately are the com- 
monest, the patient seems to be in no way incon- 
venienced by the parasite, and generally escapes all 
serious consequences. In any case, mild or severe, 
there may be attacks of hsematuria from time to time ; 
as a rule, the quantity of blood lost is insignificant. 

Treatment. Our knowledge of the situations 
occupied by the parasite indicates the futility of 
attempting a radical cure by means of poisonous 
substances, whether introduced by the bladder, by 
the rectum, or by the stomach. As yet we know of no 
direct or other means by which the schistosomes can 
be destroyed. Only harm can result from attempts 
at a radical cure of endemic hsematuria on such lines. 
Our efforts must, therefore, be confined to palliating 
the effects of the presence of the parasite. Prac- 
tically, the treatment resolves itself into that of 
chronic cystitis. The diet should be bland but 
nutritious ; stimulants and spices are to be avoided. 
Excess of all kinds, violent muscular efforts, cold and 
other causes of catarrh, must also be guarded against. 
During exacerbations of hsematuria, or of cystitis, 
rest should be enjoined and diluents freely partaken of. 
Milton has obtained good results from gramme doses 
of extract of male fern three times a day in schisto- 
somum hsematuria. A recent writer has advocated 
the use of methylene blue (3 gr. three times a day) 
in similar circumstances. Adrenalin has some in- 
fluence in controlling haemorrhage. Salvarsan has 
been tried, but was found to be of no use. Pain may 
demand anodynes. Excessive catarrh of the bladder 
suggests washing out with weak boric-acid lotion, and 
the internal administration of urotropine, uva ursi, 
buchu, perhaps small doses of cubebs, copaiba, or 



XLI] TREATMENT PREVENTION 755 

sandal- wood oil, salol, benzoic acid, and so forth. 
Stone, and troublesome new growths, are to be 
removed by operation. Where distress was extreme, 
Mackie and others have had good results from perineal 
cystotomy and drainage. Adenomatous growths in 
the rectum, where accessible, should be removed. In 
severe rectal disease, milder measures failing, excision 
of the affected part of the gut may be necessary. 
Perineal fistula must be dealt with on ordinary 
surgical principles. Hyperplasia in the vagina and 
cervix is best treated by scraping. Provided re- 
infection be avoided by the exercise of prudence in 
the matter of water, there is no necessity for sending 
the patient with schistosomurn disease away from 
the country in which the parasite was acquired. 

Prevention. In the endemic districts, children, 
in particular, should be carefully and repeatedly 
warned against drinking or bathing in rivers, ponds, 
and canals. Seeing that the larva of schistosomum, 
on obtaining access to fresh water, enters a fresh- 
water mollusc and, after undergoing developmental 
changes, obtains access to the human host, it is 
evident that if the larva be kept from getting 
into the water, or if drinking-water be boiled 
or filtered, the spread of the disease from man 
to man would be effectually prevented ; therefore 
every care should be exercised to prevent the diffu- 
sion of the disease, by prohibiting the evacuation of 
excreta into water where the miracidia might find 
the opportunity of development and transmission. 
This prohibition should not be restricted to patients 
exhibiting definite symptoms of the disease, but 
extended to all, because, as special inquiries have 
shown, a large proportion of the infected do not 
suffer from any troublesome symptom, and are often 
unaware of the infection. Leiper points out that much 
might be accomplished by attacking the mollusc in- 
termediary and the free cercaria. As regards the 
former, he suggests periodic drying of irrigation 
canals and the use of chemical manures ; as regards 
the latter, the use of cercariacides such as sul- 
phate-of-soda tablets or chlorine (1-500,000) for 



756 SCHISTOSOMUM DISEASE [CHAP. 

drinking-water, and boiling, lysol, creolin, or creosol 
(1-10,000) for bathing- water. The free cercaria 
lives but a short time at most forty-eight hours 
in water, but a mollusc once infected continues 
infective for months. The free cercarise readily 
pass through the ordinary municipal filter-bed ; they 
can traverse 30 inches of fine sand in five hours, 
but they perish, as has been stated, if they do not 
get access to an appropriate host within forty -eight 
hours. These facts should be taken into account 
by the sanitarian. 

SCHISTOSOMUM MANSONI, Sainboii, 1907 

The occurrence of a schistosomum producing 
lateral-spined ova (Plate XIII. } Fig. 2) was noticed 
by Bilharzin 1851, but, believing the ova to represent 
peculiar capsules formed by the larvae after hatch- 
ing, he confounded it with S. hcematobium. After 
Bilharz several observers encountered female worms 
with lateral-spined ova in utero, and the idea of a dis- 
tinct species suggested itself to Sonsino and others, 
but this idea was at once discarded for other hypo- 
theses. The lateral-spined ova being found only* in 
the faeces of Egyptian patients suffering from hsemat- 
uria, the majority of physicians held that the peculiar 
position of the spine was due to distortion of the egg- 
shell in passing through the muscular coat of the 
rectum, forgetting that oviposition takes place in 
the submucous layer, and that lateral-spined ova are 
found in the uterus of the parent worm. Sonsino 
suggested that the two kinds of eggs might represent 
respectively male and female embryos. Looss sur- 
mised that the lateral-spined ova might be the pro- 
duct of unfertilized females; but if the lateral-spined 
are merely unfertilized ova as he suggests, it is difficult 
to explain the presence of the species in America, 
where the lateral-spined ova are the only ones found. 

In 1903, in examining a patient who had long 
resided in Antigua and other West India Islands 

* More recently, Bandi states that he found in Tunisia 25 cases 
of vesical bilharzipsis with lateral- and terminal-spined ova in the 
urine. His experience is certainly very exceptional. 



XLT] SCHISTOSOMUM MANSON1 757 

and who had never visited Africa, I found in his 
faeces numerous schistosomum eggs all bearing a lateral 
spine. Repeated examination of the urine proved 
negative, and the patient stated that he had never 
at any time suffered from haematuria. This case, 
together with the absence of endemic hsematuria in 
the West Indies, led me to think that probably the 
lateral-spined ova indicated a distinct species of 
schistosomum, and I suggested this in a previous 
edition of this manual and elsewhere. Since then a 
considerable amount of information has accumulated 
in favour of my conjecture. A new species of schis- 
tosomum (S. japonicum), with what are practically 
spineless ova, and affecting the intestine only, has 
been discovered in Japan, and careful examinations 
for helminths in the Congo Free State (Broden) and 
in Porto Rico (Gunn and others) have shown the 
absence of urinary schistosomum disease and the 
frequency in these regions of a rectal schistosomum 
infection in which the ova of the parasite bear 
invariably a lateral spine. Finally, Sambon (Pro- 
ceedings of the Zoological Society, March 9th, 1907), 
having had the opportunity of comparing specimens 
of the type characterized by lateral-spined ova with S. 
hcematobium and other schistosomidae, and taking into 
consideration its peculiar geographical distribution and 
distinct pathogeny, proposed that it should be ranked 
as a distinot species, and paid me the compliment 
of naming it S. mansoni in recognition of my sug- 
gestion. Since that time many cases of lateral-spined 
rectal bilharziosis have been reported from America 
by Flu (Surinam) and others. So far as I am aware, 
not a single case of terniinal-spmed bilharziosis of in- 
digenous origin has been observed on that continent. 
The available material being very badly preserved, 
Sambon was unable to furnish the exact dimensions 
and the anatomical details of the new species, which 
closely resembles S. hcematobium in general appear- 
ance and structure.* 

* In both species the males present a tuberculated outer 
surface, but the number and shape of the prominences seem to 
differ somewhat. 



758 SCHISTOSOMUM DISEASE [CHAP. 

In careful comparative examination Flu has 
shown that there are several structural differences 
between the adult S. hcematobium and S. mansoni. 
He finds that whereas in the male S. hcematobium 
the anterior border of the lateral folds forms almost 
a right angle with the long axis of the body, in 
S. mansoni the folds are gradually sloped off. In 
the female S. mansoni the ovaries run a tortuous 
course unlike those in other schistosomes, the 
ootype is asymmetrical, and the oviduct opens later- 
ally on the ventral side where the shell gland is 
situated. In sixty females he found only lateral- 
spined ova.* Leiper has made out several additional 
points of difference in anatomical detail, particularly 
as regards the testes and alimentary canal (see p. 
747) ; these, together with his discovery that S. 
hcematobium makes use of a Bulinus and S. mansoni of 
a Planorbis as intermediary host, are conclusive evi- 
dence that these trematodes belong to different species. 

Apparently S. mansoni, like Necator americanus, 
is a West African species which had been introduced 
into the western hemisphere by the African negro ; 
and just as JV. americanus and Ankylostomum duo- 
denale frequently concur in the same country and 
even the same individual, so it is with S. hcemato- 
bium and S. mansoni. 

S. mansoni inhabits chiefly the mesenteric veins, 
and its ova deposited within the submucous layer of 
the rectum give rise to dysenteric-like symptoms, 
mucus with blood being passed from time to time, 
the ova-laden stools becoming frequent and their pas- 
sage perhaps being attended with tenesmus. As in 
the case of the schistosomum next to be referred to, 
the initial stages of the infection are apt to be at- 
tended with urticarial eruption, eosinophilia, and fever 
apt to be regarded as enteric. In certain well-estab- 
lished cases small, sometimes large, branching, soft 
growths are to be felt inside the sphincter ani. They 

* Holcomb mentions five autochthonous cases of intestinal 
schistosomum infection in the island of Vieques. The ova of the 
parasite were invariably lateral-spined. He states that 167 
similar cases have been reported in Porto Kico ; the eggs being 
found solely in the freces, never in the urine. 



/$$|plflv 

$$& 

f-r ' - Sfji * % 

'>***, 



. ' 



8r^ 



fe;*>'k 



ia' F 



I 



1 ^ 

o- b 

'I 



i A> 

^ 



4'' 

* i 
" 







XLI] SCHISTOSOMUM JAPONICUM 759 

resemble polypoid growths, and are apt to be mis- 
taken for piles. They may extend as high up the 
bowel as the sigmoid flexure. On tearing up one of 
these growths the ova can be seen in the debris. 

The eggs of S. mansoni may be found in great 
numbers in the liver, giving rise to a peculiar form of 
cirrhosis. They occur, too, in the lungs and other 
organs. 

SCHISTOSOMUM JAPONICUM (Katsurada, 1904) 
(Plate XIV.) 

Synoiiym. Schistose/mum cattoi, Blanchard. 

History. For some years Japanese physicians 
had observed in the provinces of Yamanashi and 
Hiroshima in Central Japan, and at Saga in the 
North Island, an endemic disease characterized by 
enlargement of the liver and spleen, cachexia, and 
ascites. The patients suffered from diarrhoea, their 
motions containing mucus tinged with blood. Oc- 
casionally they had fever. They became anaemic, 
and many of them died from exhaustion. At the 
autopsy the liver and other organs were found to 
contain the ova of some unknown helminth.* In 
April, 1904, Katsurada discovered that the eggs 
found in the stools of these patients contained a 
ciliated embryo not unlike the miracidium of Schisto- 
somum hcematobium. Disappointed of an autopsy, 
he examined dogs and cats in the endemic area, and 
had the good fortune to find at once in the portal 
system of two cats from the province of Yamanashi 
numerous schistosomidse containing eggs exactly 
similar to those previously found in man. He pub- 
lished this information on August 13th, 1904, and 
named the new trematode S. japonicum. Almost 
simultaneously, and independently, Fujinami ob- 
served cases of the disease in the village of Kata- 
yama, in the province of Bingo, and found in his 
first fatal case the characteristic ova in various 

* As far back as 1888, Majima, iii Tokio, found peculiar ova 
iu the liver of a case of cirrhosis. These he described as the ova 
of an unknown parasite. In 1890, in a similar case, Yamagiwa 
found ova which he ascribed to the lung trematode. 



760 SCHISTOSOMUM DISEASE [CHAP. 

organs. In a second necropsy, besides the ova in the 
liver, intestinal wall, and mesenteric glands, he found 
in a branch of the portal vein a parasite which he 
regarded as S. hcematobium. In November, 1904, 
Catto discovered the same parasite in sections of 
the mesocolon from a Chinaman of the province of 
Fukien who died of cholera at St. John's Island 
Quarantine Station, Singapore. Later, Katsurada 
succeeded in communicating the parasite to cats by 
immersing their legs in the water of certain ponds and 

streams reported to convey 
the disease ; and finally, in 
1913, Miyairi and Suzuki 
traced the parasite, through 
a snail common in the in- 
fected districts, back to the 
vertebrate host. 

The parasite (Fig. 
141). Schistosomum japonicum 
closely resembles in general 
structure S. heematobium. As 
in the latter, the suckers are 
placed close together at the an- 
terior extremity of the body, 
the acetabulum or posterior 
sucker being distinctly pedun- 
culated and funnel- shaped. The 
suckers in both sexes and the 
Fig. Hl.-Schistosomum japoni- ventral surface o f the body in 

the male are provided with 
minute spines. The distinctive 

characters of the new trematode are its smaller dimensions 
(male, 9 to 12 mm. in length by 0*5 mm. in breadth; female, 
12 mm. in length by 0*4 mm. in breadth), and the larger size 
of the acetabulum as compared to the oral sucker. In the 
male the integument is smooth and non-tuberculated, and the 
posterior part of the body in the male is relatively wider, 
the sides overlapping one another far more extensively than 
in S. hcematobiwn. Finally, the ova (70 to 75 p. in length, 
45 to 55 fj. in breadth) are smooth and possess no spine ; but 
they possess, as Leiper has pointed out, what may pass as a 
rudimentary lateral spine in the form of a very minute and 
easily oveilooked papilla like an excrescence, in a cup-like 
depression in the shell. (Fig. 142.) A comparative study of 
the anatomy of the two schistosomidaB will probably show 
other morphological differences. Catto mentions a larger vas 
deferens and lobular testicles in the male, and a different 




XLIJ SCHISTOSOMUM JAPONICUM 761 

arrangement of the yolk cells in the female. Looss notices 
a greater development of the muscular system in the male 
S. japonicum, which he thinks may take the place of the absent 
cuticular eminences. 

Catto found the adult worms in the smaller mesenteric blood- 
vessels, but he was unable to determine whether they occupy 
the arteries or the veins. He believes they occur in both. 
The smooth, non-tuberculated skin of S. japonicum seems to 
suggest a different anatomical habitat from that of S. hcemato- 
bium, the integument of which is beset with numerous spine- 
bearing protuberances. S. hfematobium, inhabiting the venous 
system, has a rough integument, it may be to enable it to 
adhere to the inner coat of the venules, and to stem the blood- 
stream during oviposit ion. S. japonicum, which inhabits the 
arteries, requires no integumental protuberances, the direction 
of the arterial current maintaining it in its proper position. 

In Catto's case the ova were found 
chiefly in the mucous and submucous 
coats of the intestinal tract from caecum 
to anus, more especially in the rectum 
and appendix. They were also found 
in the liver, in the gall-bladder, in the 
pancreas, in the mesenteric glands, and 
in the fibrous coat of the larger mesen- 
teric vessels. In the liver they were 
very plentiful, lying singly or in clus- 
ters embedded in the hypertrophied Fig. 142. EggofSchisto- 
connective tissue. The female schisto- J*P 

somum probably has a special means i^ c lateral knob, 

of extruding her eggs through the walls (After Leiper.) 

of the blood-vessels ; the further dis- 
tribution of the eggs being effected by the lymph- stream. 
Where the ova accumulate they provoke a small- cell infiltra- 
tion, which gives place later to fibrous tissue. 

The ova are discharged in the fices of the vertebrate host. 
In this way they get carried to water, where the ciliated mira- 
cidium escapes. In 1913 Miyairi and Suzuki traced the ciliated 
miracidium into a fresh-water mollusc, Katayama nosophora 
(Fig. 143), wherein, after shedding its cilia, it becomes a 
sporocyst (Fig. 144, a), in which ultimately numbers of fork- 
tailed cercarise are developed (Fig. 144, b). On maturity the 
cercariae escape into the water and, opportunity prestnting, 
penetrate the skin of some appropriate vertebrate (man, cat, 
dog, mouse, etc.), in whom they attain sexual maturity. 
These observations have been confiimed by Leiper. 

Geographical distribution. The distribu- 
tion of S. japonicum is probably a wide one. So 
far it has been found principally in Chinese and 
Japanese. It is far from uncommon in the Philip- 
pines, or in the Yangtze valley, where a notable 




762 SCHISTOSOMUM DISEASE [CHAP. 

proportion of the boatmen and raftsmen and farmers 
have been found infected. Europeans also have 
acquired the disease in the latter district, mostly 
sportsmen addicted to snipe-shooting in the rice fields. 
Morbid anatomy. Catto's patient during life 
presented enlargement of the liver and spleen. At 
the autopsy the appearance of the peritoneum sug- 
gested repeated attacks of peritonitis. The appendices 
epiploicse were thickened, and in some places matted 
together. The recto- vesical pouch was almost obliter- 
ated. The mesenteric and prevertebral glands were 
enlarged, the largest group forming a cluster near 





^my 

Fig. 143. Operculum and shell of Katayama nosophora. (After Robson.) 

a, Operculum, x 12, diagrammatic to show scheme of coiling ; b, oral aspect 
of shell, x 4; c, lateral aspect of shell, showing labial swelling, x 4. 

the duodenum. The liver was considerably hyper- 
trophied, its surface nodular, its consistence greatly 
increased. The coats of the gall-bladder were thick- 
ened, and a layer of fat almost completely encased 
this organ, which was distended with clear mucoid 
material containing several minute black gall-stones. 
The spleen was enlarged and pigmented. The colon 
was much thickened throughout. Its mucous mem- 
brane was swollen, hypersemic, and friable ; it pre- 
sented numerous small circular superficial erosions 
and patches of necrosis. The outer coats were very 
tough, almost cartilaginous. The walls of the rectum 
were three-quarters of an inch thick and adhered 
to the bladder. It nearly filled the true pelvis. 
The sigmoid flexure also was uniformly thickened. 



XLI] SCHISTOSOMUM JAPONICUM 763 

In tracing the Ijowel upwards the thickening became; 

less marked and more patchy. The liver and bowel 

cut gritty on section. The bladder was thickened 

where adhesions had 

formed with the rectum, 

but elsewhere it was 

healthy, and nowhere 

was the vesical mucosa 

diseased. Sections of the 

liver, mesenteric glands, 

and bowel were found 

to contain the ova of S. 

japonicum. 

In a case from Kata- 
yama, described by Tsu- 
noda and Shimamura, 
the necropsy revealed, 
besides the ordinary le- 
sions in the liver, in- 
testine, and pancreas, 
thickening with hsemor- 
rhagic infiltration of 
both the dura and pia 
mater. In the brain it- 
self a number of wedge- 
shaped sclerosed areas of 
greyish colour, and sur- 
rounded by some ecchy- 
mosis, were found. In 
the lenticular nucleus, 
optic thalamus, and in- 
ternal capsule of the left 
side there was an area of 
softening the size of a 
walnut. On histological 
examination these areas 
were found to contain 
ova embedded in neuroglia and surrounded by soft- 
ened and degenerated brain tissue. Similar ova were 
found in the membranes, and a few in the right 
hemisphere and in the choroid plexuses of the lateral 
ventricles. In connection with these lesions the 




Fig. 144. a, Sporocyst from liver 
of Katayama nosophora, x 100 ; 
b, cercaria from the sporocyst, 
x 100. (After Leiper.) 



764 



SCHISTOSOMUM DISEASE [CHAP. 



patient during life suffered from disorder of speech 
and tremor in both upper and lower extremities, with 
headache and mental disturbance, later from vertigo 
and Jacksonian fits (two or three daily), and finally 
from right hemiplegia. 

Katsurada has drawn attention to the fact that 
S. japonicum does not affect the bladder. The two 
cases described in Chinamen confirm this experience. 
There are, therefore, important pathological and 




Fig. 145. Eggs of S. japonicum, x 250. (Photograph by Dr. J. Bell.) 

clinical features which, in addition to the zoological 
characters of the parasites, show that S. japonicum 
is specifically distinct from S. hcematobium and 
S. mansoni. 

Symptoms. The disease produced by S. japoni- 
cum, sometimes called " Katayama disease," is a grave 
one, and when pronounced proves fatal sooner or later. 
The gravity of any given case will depend, amongst 
other things, on the degree of infection and the 
circumstances of the patient. Of 1,077 persons near 
Shushima, Japan, examined by Koiki, 42 were found 



XLI] SCHISTOSOMUM JAPONICUM 765 

infected. Of these 42 only 22 were not in good 
health, and 10 of them had enlarged livers. A history 
of fever accompanied by an urticarial eruption is 
generally given sometimes there are associated with 
this symptoms of pulmonary congestion. After an in- 
terval of several weeks or months, intestinal troubles, 
in the form of dysenteric discharges, dyspepsia, to- 
gether with great enlargement of liver and spleen, set 
in ; these persisting, a characteristic cachexia intense 
anaemia, ascites, wasting, and progressive debility 
supervenes; ultimately, if the patient does not suc- 
cumb to some superadded disease, terminating it 
may not be for many years in death. 

Diagnosis. All cases of urticarial fever from 
the endemic districts should be watched for many 
months, especially if eosinophilia persists after the 
subsidence of the primary attack, and the stools ex- 
amined for ova of S. japonicum. All cases of chronic 
intestinal disturbance, especially if associated with 
enlargement of liver and spleen, from these districts 
should be regarded as, possibly, cases of schistoso- 
miasis and have the blood and stools examined. If 
the ova (Figs. 142, 145) are discovered the diagnosis 
is established. 

Prevention. Water reported to cause the 
disease should be boiled, or avoided, for drinking or 
bathing purposes. Sportsmen, if they must wade in 
such waters, should wear long boots or waterproof 
waders. 

Treatment. No specific remedy is known. 
Filix mas may be tried, otherwise the treatment is 
entirely symptomatic. 



CHAPTER XLII 

II. PARASITES OF THE CONNECTIVE TISSUE 
DRACUNCULUS MEDINENSIS, Velsch, 1674 

Synonyms* Vena medinensis; Dracunculus persarum ; Gor- 
diusmedinensis; Filaria dracunculus ; F. medinensis; Guinea-worm. 

Oeographical distribution. This important 
parasite is found in certain parts of India the 
Deccan, Scinde, etc. in Persia, Turkestan, Arabia, 
tropical Africa particularly on the West Coast, and 
in a very limited part of Brazil (Feira de Santa 
Anna). Formerly it was supposed to be endemic in 
Curagoa, Demerara, and Surinam ; apparently it has 
now disappeared from these places. Dracunculus is 
not equally diffused throughout this extensive area ; 
it tends to special prevalence in limited districts, in 
some of which it is excessively common. In parts of 
the Deccan, for example, at certain seasons of the 
year nearly half the population is affected ; and in 
places on the West Coast of Africa nearly every negro 
has one or more specimens about him. Although 
guinea-worm is sometimes seen in Europe, this is 
only in natives of, or in recent visitors from, the 
endemic areas. Though frequently introduced in this 
way, it has not become established either in Europe 
or in North America. We have no account of the 
parasite as endemic in any part of Asia east of 
Hindustan, in the Eastern Archipelago, in Australia, 
or in the Pacific islands. 

Dracunculus medinensis has been reported for 
horses, oxen, dogs, wild cats, jackals, leopards, and 
other animals. Possibly some of the parasites in the 
lower animals described as guinea-worm may belong 
to quite a different species. 
766 



THE PARASITE 



767 



The parasite (Figs. 146-8). The female is reputed to 
attain in some instances enormous dimensions ; it is prob- 
able, however, that worms of 5 or 6 ft. in length owe their 
size to errors of observation, two worms, or their fragments, 
having been regarded as one. According to Ewart, in forty 
carefully measured specimens the smallest was about 32-5 cm., 
the largest 1 m. 20 cm. in length ; 90 cm. is probably an 
average length. The diameter of the worm is about 1'5 to 




Fig. 146. Dracunculus medinensis (reduced). 

1*7 mm. The body is cylindrical, milky- white, smooth, and 
without markings. The tip of the tail comes to a point and 
is abruptly bent, thus forming a sort of blunted hook, perhaps 
functioning as a "holdfast." The head end is rounded off, 
terminating in what is known as the cephalic shield. The 
mouth is triangular, very small, and surrounded by six 
papillae two large and four small The alimentary canal is 
relatively small, being compressed and 
thrust to one side by the uterus ; in the 
mature worm it is probably csecal, for it 
has not been traced to an anus. Nearly 
the whole of the worm is occupied by the 
uterus, which is packed from end to end 
with coiled-up embryos. The vagina also 
may be lacking. According to Looss, the 
uterine tubes (he states, contrary to 
Leuckart, that there are two) open into 
the posterior part of the oesophagus by a 
common duct, the oesophagus prolapsing 
through the mouth at the time of partu- 
rition and being subsequently withdrawn. 
Leiper, however, has shown that the 
worm discharges its young by a prolapse 
of the uterus as described by me, and that 
the extrusion does not occur through the Fig. 147.-Dracuncu- 
mouth, as suggested by Looss and myself, 
but by a rupture just outside the circum- 
oral ring of papillae, possibly the vagina. 

Nothing definite is known of the male worm. According 
to Polak, the Persians have long known the male to be a 
smaller worm, 7-10 cm. long. They stated that at times 
as many as twenty of these small worms might be found 
coiled round a female specimen. Charles described a shorter 
(4 cm.) worm, regarding it as the male, which he found 




lus medinensis. 
(After Leuckart.) 



768 



GUINEA-WORM 



twice attached to the larger female worm within the sub- 
peritoneal connective tissue. Charles's description does not 
exclude the possibility that what he describes as the male 
worm in co'ittt was really a prolapse of the uterus through the 
ruptured integument. Daniels, at the post-mortem of a 
monkey experimentally infected by Leiper six months pre- 
viously, found three immature females (30 cm. long-) and two 
remarkably small males (22 mm.), which were obtained, one 
from the psoas muscle and the other from the connective 
tissue behind the ossophagus. 

Habits. The habitat of the female guinea- worm is 
the connective tissue of the limbs and trunk. When 

mature, and 
prompted by 
instinct, she 
proceeds 
to bore her 
way through 
this tissue, 
travelling 
downwards. 
In 85 per 
cent, of cases 
she presents 
in some part 
of the lower 
extremities. 
Occasionally 
she presents in 
the scrotum ; 
rarely in the 

arms (Fig. 149) ; exceptionally in other parts of the 
body, or even in the head. In a proportion of 
cases the appearance of the worm at the surface of 
the body is preceded by slight fever and urticaria, 
as described by Sutherland in 1897 and by Bartet 
independently in 1898. Arrived at her destination 
she pierces the derma. Probably in consequence of 
some irritating secretion, a small blister now forms 
and elevates the epidermis over the site of the hole, 
in the derma. By and by the blister ruptures, dis- 
closing a small superficial erosion |~J in. in dia- 
meter. At the centre of the erosion, which some- 




Fig. 148. Transverse section of D. medinensis. 
(LeucTcart.) 



XLIl] 



HABITS OF PARASITE 



769 



times quickly heals spontaneously, a minute hole, 
large enough to admit an ordinary probe, can 
be seen. Sometimes, when the blister ruptures, 
the head of the worm is seen protruding from 
this hole; as a rule, however, at first the worm 
does not show. If now we douche the neigh- 
bourhood of the ulcer with a stream of cold water 




Fig. 149. Female guinea-worm lying under the skin of the forearm. 
(Photograph by P. H. Bo.hr.) 

expressed from a sponge and, as the water falls, 
watch the little hole in the centre of the erosion, we 
shall see in a few seconds a droplet of fluid at first 
clear, later milky well up through the hole and 
flow over the surface. Sometimes, instead of this 
fluid, a small, beautifully pellucid tube, about 1 mm. 
in diameter, doubtless the uterus of the worm pro- 
lapsed through her head parts, is projected through 
the hole in response to the stimulus of the cold 



770 



GUINEA-WORM 



[CHAP. 



water. When this tube has been extruded an inch 
or thereabouts, it suddenly fills with an opaque 
whitish material, ruptures and collapses, the fluid 
spreading over the surface of the erosion. If a little 
of the fluid, either that which has welled up through 




Fig. ] 50. Embryos of D. medinensis. (Microphotograph by 
Mr. H. J5. Bristow.) 

the hole, or that which has escaped from the ruptured 
tube, is placed under the microscope, it is seen to con- 
tain myriads of dracunculus larvae lying coiled up, 
almost motionless, with their tails projecting in a 
very characteristic manner (Fig. 150). If now a drop 
of water be instilled below the cover-glass the larvae 



XLJl] 



HABITS OF PARASITE 



771 



may be observed to unroll themselves and, in a very 
short time, to swim about, more suo, with great 
activity. Manifestly these larvse come from a guinea- 
worm lying in the tissues 
and communicating with the 
surface through the little 
hole in the derma. Jf the 
douching be repeated after 
an hour or longer a further 
supply of larvse can be ob- 
tained ; and this can be con- 
tinued from time to time 
until the worm has emptied 
herself. Apparently the 
cold applied to the skin of 
the host stimulates the worm 
to contract and thereby 
force out her uterus, inch 
by inch, until it is com- 
pletely expelled. When the 
protruded portion of uterus 
ruptures, under the pres- 
sure of the vis a tergo, it 
shrivels up, dries, and thus 
effectually seals up the end 
of that part of the organ 
which is still inside the 
worm, thereby preventing 
what might be inopportune 
and too prodigal discharge 
of larvse. 

The larva (Fig. 151). The 
larvae are not cylindrical ; they 
are distinctly flattened. In swim- 
ming they move by a sort of side- 
to-side lashing of the tail, and 
tadpole-like motion of the body. Fig. 151. -Embryos of D. medi- 
The movements are intermittent ; gwe ^"J^ Looss) 

sudden, short swims alternating front view, 

with brief pauses. When pro- 
gressing, the greater transverse axis of the body is perpen- 
dicular to the plane travelled over ; but when, from time to 
time, the little worms pause, they gradually roll over on to 
their flat surfaces. As soon as they come to rest on the flat they 



772 GUINEA-WORM [CHAP. 

suddenly recover themselves with a jerk, and turn quickly on 
to their edges and begin swimming about again. This series 
of movements is constantly repeated. 

The larva of D. medinensis measures about 15 to 25 mm. in 
length by 0-50 to 0-75 mm. at its greatest breadth. The head 
is somewhat tapered and then abruptly rounded off. The tail 
is long, slender, but not quite sharply pointed. The alimen- 
tary canal can be readily detected. Towards the root of the tail 
two peculiar gland-like organs, placed opposite to each other, 




Fig. 152. Embryos of D. medinensis in body cavity of Cyclops. The 
cyclops has been slightly compressed so as to force out some of the 
worms, which can be seen escaping from ruptures at the head and tail. 
(Photograph by Mr. Andrew Pringle.) 

can be made out. The cuticle is very distinctly transversely 
striated. 

In clean water the larva remains alive for six days ; in 
muddy water, or in moist earth, it will live from two to three 
weeks. If slowly desiccated it does not die ; it may be resusci- 
tated by placing it again in a little water. 

Intermediary host. If, by way of experiment, we place 
some dracunculus larvae along with Cyclops quadricornis in a 
watch-glass we shall find that, after a few hours, the larvae 
have transferred themselves to the interior of the body cavity 
of the cyclops, where they can be seen moving about, coiling 
and uncoiling themselves, with considerable activity (Fig. 152). 



XLTI] MODE OF INFECTION 7?3 

As many as fifteen or twenty young guinea-worms may be 
counted in each of the little crustaceans, which, unless the 
infection is excessive, seem in no way inconvenienced. After 
a time the embryos so transferred undergo a metamorphosis. 
They cast their skins two or three times, get rid of their long 
swimming tails, acquire a cylindrical shape and, ultimately, 
along with increased size, develop a tripartite arrangement of 
the extreme posterior end, which recalls a similar arrange- 
ment of the tail of F. bancrofti and of F. recondita towards 
the termination of the stay of the former nematode in the 
mosquito, and of the latter in the dog-flea (Grassi). 

Mode of infection. The metamorphosis of D. 
medinensis in cyclops was discovered by Fedschenko 
in Turkestan. His observations I have been able to 
confirm in England ; but, owing to the colder climate 
of the latter country, in English cyclops the meta- 
morphosis takes somewhat longer to complete eight 
or nine weeks, instead of five weeks as in Turkestan. 
Fedschenko supposed that the cyclops containing the 
larvae of the guinea-worm, on being swallowed by 
man in drinking-water, was digested ; and that the 
parasite, being then set free, worked its way into the 
tissues of its new and definitive host ; but all the ex- 
periments he made to bring about infection by means 
of ingestion of cyclops containing dracunculus larvae 
gave a negative result. These failures led to the 
belief that the larvae might have to undergo further 
changes before it was fitted for life in man. Con- 
sidering the peculiar geographical limitations of this 
helminthiasis, and the very general distribution of 
cyclops, such an arrangement seemed likely enough.* 

Recently, Leiper has shown that when an in- 
fected cyclops is transferred to a 0-2 per cent, solu- 
tion of hydrochloric acid it is immediately killed, but 
the larvae, so far from being destroyed, are aroused 
to great activity, and eventually escape into the fluid, 
in which they swim freely. From this he conjectured 
that under natural conditions man becomes infected 
through the ingestion of infected cyclops, the gastric 
juice acting on cyclops and larva in the same way 
as the hydrochloric acid in his experiment. In 

* Oue German observer has stated that he succeeded in 
communicating guinea- worm to a monkey by applying living 
embryos to the skin of the animal. 



??4 GUINEA-WORM [CHAP. 

order to prove this he fed a monkey on bananas 
concealing cyclops which had been infected for five 
weeks, and which contained fully developed larvae. 
Six months later, when the monkey died, five worms 
were found in its connective tissues, all possessing 
the anatomical characteristics of D. medinensis. 

The evidence is now fairly complete that the life 
span of the female dracunculus extends to about one 
year, conforming probably to the habits of certain 
species of cyclops which, under natural conditions, 
serve as its intermediary host. It is not to be sup- 
posed that every species of cyclops is an effective 
intermediary ; for, were this the case, guinea- worm 
would have a much wider geographical range. 

Biological peculiarities explained. The little we 
now know of the life-history of the guinea-worm 
explains many things that were formerly mysterious. 
We now understand why the parasite, on attaining 
maturity, makes for the legs and feet ; these are the 
parts of the human body most likely, in tropical 
countries, to come in contact with puddles of water, 
the medium in which cyclops the intermediary host 
lives. We can understand, also, why it is that 
the contact of water with the skin of the host causes 
the guinea-worm to expel her young; and we can 
understand the rationale of the douching so much 
practised by the natives of certain of the endemic 
districts in their attempts at extraction. The water- 
carriers in India are said to be very subject to guinea- 
worm, which, in their case, is prone to appear on the 
back that is, the part of the body against which the 
water-skin lies when being carried. On this fact has 
been based an hypothesis that the young guinea- worm 
enters by the skin. I would interpret the fact, if fact 
it be, by suggesting that the mature guinea- worm, 
conformably to her instinct, seeks out that part of 
the body most in contact with water, which, in the 
case of the Indian water-carrier, is his back. 

Premature death of parasite. Occasionally the 
guinea-worm fails to pierce the integument of her 
host ; sometimes she dies before arriving at maturity. 
In either case she may give rise to abscess ; or she 



XLJI] TREATMENT 775 

may become cretified, and in this condition may be 
felt, years afterwards, as a hard convoluted cord 
under the skin of the leg, or be discovered only on 
dissection. (Fig. 149.) 

Treatment. Formerly it was the custom, so 
soon as a guinea-worm showed herself, to attach the 
protruding part to a piece of wood and endeavour to 
wind her out by making a turn or two of this 
daily. Sometimes these attempts succeeded ; just 
as often, the worm snapped under the strain. The 
consequences of this accident were often disastrous. 
Myriads of young escaped from the ruptured ends 
into the tissues, and violent inflammation and fever, 
followed by abscess and sloughingj ensued ; weeks, 
or months perhaps, elapsed before the unhappy vic- 
tims of this rough surgery were able to get about. 
Too often serious contractions and ankyloses from 
loss of tissue and inflammation, and even death from 
septic trouble, resulted. 

If a guinea-worm be protected from injury, and 
the part she occupies frequently douched with water, 
her uterus will be gradually and naturally forced out 
inch by inch and emptied of embryos. Until this 
process is completed she resists extraction ; possibly 
the hook at the end of her tail assists her to main- 
tain her hold. When parturition, in from fifteen to 
twenty days, is completed, the worm is absorbed or 
tends to emerge spontaneously. A little traction, if 
practised then, may aid extrusion. Traction, how- 
ever, must not be employed so long as the embryos 
are being emitted. The completion of parturition 
can be easily ascertained by the douching experiment 
already described. 

Emily, a French naval surgeon, has introduced a 
system of managing guinea- worm cases which bids fair 
to shorten treatment and obviate the serious risks of 
the old winding-out system. By means of a Pravaz's 
syringe he injects the body of the worm, if she chances 
to be protruding, with solution of bichloride of mer- 
cury, 1 in 1,000. This kills the parasite; after twenty- 
four hours, extraction is usually easily effected. If the 
worm has not shown herself externally, but can be felt 



776 GUINEA-WORM [CHAP. 

coiled up under the skin, he injects as near the coils 
as possible, and through several punctures, a few drops 
of the same solution. This, too, kills the parasite. 
Her body is then absorbed, as a piece of aseptic 
catgut would be, without inflammation or reaction of 
any description; or she may be cut down on, and 
easily extracted. Others have confirmed the value 
of Emily's method, which saves much time and 
suffering and, with due care, is devoid of risk. 

Prophylaxis. From what has been stated 
with regard to the role of cyclops, it is evident that 
the prevention of guinea-worm is merely a question 
of protection of drinking-water from pollution by the 
subjects of guinea-worm infection. Leiper has shown 
that by raising by a few degrees the temperature of 
the water in which cyclops are living these crusta- 
ceans are killed. He suggests heating by a portable 
steam generator the water in wells and water-holes 
known to be sources of guinea- worm infection, as a 
prophylactic measure. Alcock has found that the 
addition of a trace of potash to the water is equally 
effective. 

LOA LOA (Guyot, 1778) 

Synonyms. Dracunculm oculi ; Filaria loa ; F. oculi ; 
F. stibconjunctivalis ; F. diurna ; F. bourgi. 

History. Loa loa (Fig. 153) has been known for 
more than three hundred years. Although undoubtedly 
of African origin, the earlier-described cases were in 
negroes in the West Indies who must have acquired 
their parasites in West Africa prior to their deporta- 
tion as slaves to America. For long the worm was 
regarded as an immature dracunculus. Since the 
characters of the parasite have been more carefully 
studied this view can no longer be held, and L. loa is 
now thoroughly established as a distinct species. 

" In 1891 I found in the blood of two negroes one 
from the Lower Congo, the other from Old Calabar 
certain microfilarise morphologically closely resem- 
bling that of F. bancrofti, but differing from the 
latter inasmuch as they came into the peripheral 
circulation during the day and disappeared from it 
during the night. As in one of these negroes L. loa 



XLII] LOA LOA 777 

had formerly been seen in his eye, I suggested that 
the new microfilaria, which I named F. diurna, was 
the hsematozoal larval form of L. loa. This view 
was supported by the fact that in fragments of a loa 
which I received from Leuckart the contained em- 
bryos appeared to be identical in every respect with 
F. diurna. Nevertheless, I failed in several cases of 
L. loa infection to find mf. diurna in the blood. 

In 1901 Dutton, Annett and Elliot had the op- 
portunity of studying F. diurna in its own habitat 
in West Africa, and came to the conclusion that 
my hypothesis as regards the relationship of F. 
diurna and L. loa was erroneous, contending that 
F. diurna was none other 
than mf. bancrofti whose nor- 
mal periodicity had been dis- 
turbed by the peculiar habits 
of those West African negroes 
who, they tell us, spent their 
nights in orgies. 

Sambon, refuting the 
theory of the Liverpool Com- 

. . J . . Fig. 153. Loa loa 

mission, again pointed out the (nat. size), 

similarity of mf. diurna to 

the larvae still contained within the uterus of L. loa, 
and explained that the lack of contemporaneous- 
ness between mf. diurna and L. loa in the same 
patient is probably due to the fact that this long- 
lived parasite does not produce its young until after 
a long period of wanderings, when, having attained 
full maturity, it retires into deeper structures for 
parturition. He pointed out that the majority of 
tilariaB removed whilst wandering beneath the skin 
of patients were more or less immature forms ; that 
in young children L. loa is, as a rule, the only form 
found, whilst in adults inf. diurna is the commonest 
finding, with frequently the history of a previous loa 
and finally that F. equina of horses and asses, also 
found in or about the eyes of the host in its immature 
or barely mature stages, descends into the peritoneal 
cavity for parturition when fully mature. 

Later, an association was discovered between 
z* 




778 LOA LOA [CHAP. 

L. loa arid the disease known as Calabar swellings, 
and, also, between Calabar swellings and mf. diurna. 
Moreover, as a considerable number of cases of L. loa 
concurring with mf. diurna have now been recorded 
by Prout, Henley, Brurnpt, Wurtz, Penel, Kerr, and 
myself, and as the concurrence of the geographical 
range of the two forms of parasitic infection has been 
fairly well made out, there can be little doubt that L. 
loa and mf. diurna are respectively the mature and 
larval form of the same species. 

Geographica I distribution. We have no 
definite knowledge of the extent and details of the 
geographical range of L. loa. It appears to be 
widely distributed throughout tropical West Africa 
from Sierra Leone to Benguella. In some parts as 
in Old Calabar, Cameroons, and the Ogowe River 
a very large proportion of the inhabitants are 
affected. How far it penetrates into the interior 
of the continent is as yet unknown. I have seen 
several cases in Europeans from the Upper Congo 
within a few miles of Stanley Falls. Brumpt records 
its presence in Kassai, approximately 600 miles from 
the coast, on one of the chief tributaries of the Congo. 
The larval form (mf. loa) has been found twice by 
Cook in Uganda, although such isolated findings cannot 
be taken as landmarks, seeing that L. loa is a long- 
lived parasite and its hosts may have contracted the 
infection years previously, and at a distance from 
the place at which it was recognized. At the time 
of the slave trade numerous cases were reported from 
the West Indies and South America, but always in 
negroes from Africa, and their occurrence ceased 
with the abolition of slavery. The suggestion that 
about 1795 there existed an endemic centre for this 
parasite in San Domingo is based on very doubtful 
evidence. Nowadays, cases are occasionally seen in 
Europe and America, in both negroes and whites, 
but only in persons who have frequented those parts 
of Africa inhabited by the parasite. Possibly, on 
account of the opening of new trade routes and of 
the more frequent intercourse between the natives, 
L. loa may greatly extend its range in Africa. 



XLII] THE PARASITE 779 

Zoological distribution. Hitherto L. loa has 
not been seen by reliable observers in animals, but, according 
to Plehn, the natives of Cameroons assert that it occurs in 
goats and sheep. 

The parasite (Figs. 154, 155). L. loa is especially 
characterized among the nematodes of man by the presence of 
numerous rounded, smooth, translucent protuberances of the 
cuticle, 12-16 /JL in diameter and rising 9-1 1 /t above the general 
surface. These chitinous bosses vary greatly in number and 
arrangement on different specimens and are, as a rule, more 
numerous on the female. Their distribution is very irregular. 
In the male they are wanting at the extremities, beginning 
about 1*5-2 '5 mm. from the mouth and tail- tip respectively. 
In the female they usually extend to the posterior extremity 
and may also be found on the cephalic end. 

The body is filiform, cylindrical, whitish, semi-transparent. 
Anteriorly it tapers somewhat abruptly to the mouth, which is 
terminal, small, simple, unarmed, and apparently destitute of 
papillae. There is no distinctly marked neck, but there is a 
sort of shoulder about 0-15 mm. from the mouth, and at 
about this level are two small papillae, one corresponding to 
the dorsal, the other to the ventral median line. 

The posterior extremity of the female is straight, attenu- 
ated, and broadly rounded off (Fig. 156). That of the male is 
slightly curved ventrally and provided with two lateral expan- 
sions of the cuticle (0*7 mm. long by 0-029 mm. broad), situated 
nearer the ventral than the dorsal surface. In the middle 
of the ventral surface, between the lateral alto, and about 
0-080 mm. from the tail-tip, is the opening of the ano-genital 
orifice, from which two unequal spicules may be seen pro- 
truding. The opening is surrounded by thick labia. On 
either side, and somewhat asymmetrically placed, are four 
large globular and pedunculated papillae closely approximated 
and decreasing in size antero-posteriorly. Farther back, and 
nearer to the middle line, is a fifth symmetrical pair of very 
small, conical, postanal papillae with broad base and acumi- 
nated point. (Fig. 157.) Leiper has reported the existence of 
three additional paired papillae. 

The adult male worm measures 30-34 mm. in length, and 
presents a maximum breadth of 0-350-0-430 mm. in the 
anterior part of the body. The posterior part tapers gradually 
towards the tail. The measurements of the adult female have 
not been satisfactorily determined. The specimens so far ex- 
amined, extracted from under the skin or from about the eyes 
of patients, varied greatly in length* 20 mm. (Blanchard); 
27 mm. (Leuckart) ; 32-3 mm. (Manson) ; 50 mm. (Annett, 
Dutton and Elliot) ; 52 mm. (Looss) ; 55 mm. (Ozzard) ; 
60 mm. (Brumpt) ; 70 mm. (Maurel). 

# If the record of Guy on (1864) that his specimen was 15 cm. 
long does not rest on an error in transcribing or printing, it shows 
that the fully grown female is really much larger than we know 
at present from the extracted subcutaneous specimens. 



780 



LOA LOA 



[CHAP. 



The alimentary tube begins at the oral cavity, which is 
funnel-shaped and surrounded by a strong muscular mass. It 
consists of a slender oesophagus without bulb, of an intestine 
attaining a width of about 65 /t towards the middle of the 
body, and of a short, attenuated rectum. 

The male reproductive organ is first encountered about 
3 mm. from the cephalic extremity, where it ends in a pointed 
blind sac. Anteriorly it is very sinuous and winds round the 
alimentary canal ; posteriorly it straightens, attains a diameter 
of 85-105 [i, and terminates by a vesicula seminalis filled 
with more or less spherical spermatozoa 6-8 p. in diameter. 




Fig. 154. L. loa, female. (Partly after Looss.) 



In the female tHe vulva forms a small eminence at about 
25 mm. from the anterior extremity. The vagina, 9 mm. long 
and 95 /j. wide, branches off into two long tubes extending 
almost throughout the entire length of the body. These tubes, 
the narrow ends of which are the ovaria, contain eggs in all 
stages of development, as well as free larvae 0-253-0 '262 mm. 
in length by -0047-0 -005 mm. in breadth. 

Structure of the larval form. Mierofilaria 
loa (= diurna) is very similar in size (298 p by 7 '5 /j.) and 
structure to micro filaria bancrofti. Like the latter, it is 
enclosed within a " sheath," its tail is pointed, and it has the 
same V and tail spots. (Figs. 96, 97.) 



XLIl] 



THE LAKVAL FORM 



781 



Their respective periodicities are very characteristic ; more 
so, apparently, in the case of inf. loa than in that of mf. bancrofti ; 
for, whereas by inverting the sleeping habits of a subject of F. 
bancrofti infection it is easy to invert or disturb the periodicity 
of the microfilariae, this cannot be done in the case of mf. loa. 
Unfortunately, I can adduce only one experiment in support of 
this remarkable circumstance ; but that experiment was a very 
thorough and carefully conducted one, and extended over a 
considerable period. During all the time the patient (who 
had had several L. loa excised at different times and who was 
still showing signs of their presence) slept during the day and 
kept awake during the night ; nevertheless, the microfilariae 




rez/. 

Fig. 155. L. loa, male. (Partly after Looss.) 



continued to appear in vast numbers in the peripheral blood 
during the day, but were only very rarely found in it during 
the night. 

Although in the fresh liquid blood it is practically im- 
possible to distinguish, with the microscope alone, the living 
mf. loa from the living mf. bancrofti, in dried and stained films 
certain more or less pronounced differences can be made out. 
(1) In such preparations mf. bancrofti is usually disposed in 
sweeping and graceful curves such as a skilled penman might 
make (Plate XI., Fig. 1) ; mf. loa, on the other hand, assumes 
a stiff, ungraceful, almost angular .attitude like the flourishes 
made by a schoolboy (Plate XI., Fig. 2). (2) The tail end of 



782 



LOA LOA 



[CHAP. 



mf. loa is often disposed in a series of sharp flexures, giving 
it in some instances a corkscrew-like appearance, the extreme 
tip being always sharply flexed. (Plate XL, Fig. 6.) (3) The 
nuclei of the central column of cells of mf. loa are larger and 
stain less deeply than those of mf. bancrofti, and, as a rule, 
the cephalic end of the column is more abruptly terminated 
in the former. Although in most slides one or two specimens 
may be hard to diagnose, on the average of a series of 
preparations the foregoing distinctions are recognizable. 
Fiilleborn by special stiining methods points out various 
minor differences (see Fig. 98), amongst which the large 
genital cell is a marked feature. He proposes the measure- 
ment of various fixed points (Fig. 128) as a standard of differen- 
tiation of the various microfilariae. 

Life-history. Of the life-history of L. loa little is 
positively known. As the larval form comes into the peri- 





CD n 

Fig. 156. Posterior extremity Fig. 157. Posterior extremity 
of L. loa, female. (After Looss.) of L. loa, male. (After Looss.) 



pheral circulation of the human host, it is very probable that, 
like mf, bancrofti, it is liberated by some blood-sucking insect ; 
and, seeing that it approaches the surface of the body only 
during the day-time, this is undoubtedly a blood-sucker of 
diurnal habit. 

Several years ago I called attention to the so-called man- 
grove flies as possible intermediaries, specifying as the most 
probable Chrysops dimidiata (Fig. 158). This conjecture Leiper 
has ascertained to have been well founded. During a recent 
visit to West Africa, with the object of ascertaining the inter- 
mediary host of L. loa, he examined many blood-sucking insects, 
including mosquitoes and a variety of other insects. He found 
that in Chrysops dimidiata and in C. silacea rapid and uniform 
developmental changes of mf. Ion were effected, similar to those 
of mf. bancrofti in the mosquito. Later observations by Kleine, 
v.orking in the Cameroons, tend to confirm those of Leiper. 
As to the way in which L. loa is acquired we must await further 



XLIl] 



LIFE-HISTORY 



783 



information. It would appear that, after it has entered the 
human body, development is very slow, and that probably full 
maturity is not attained until after several years. In many 
cases the parasite did not show itself until 3, 4 and 4| years 
after the patient had left the endemic area. In one case the 
parasite was extracted from the eye 13 years after the patient 
had left Africa ; in another the worm or worms appeared at 
irregular intervals during 15 years. Manifestly it is long-lived . 
An interesting and suggestive evidence of slow development is 
that, while the immature active worm is often seen in children, 




Fig. 158. Chrysops dimidiata (v. d. Wulp), ?. (Drawn by W. McDonald.) 

the larval form in the blood is found as a rule only in adults. 
Annett, Dutton and Elliot, in 390 native children of all ages 
up to about 18 years, examined in a distrkt where L. loa was 
exceedingly common in adults, found inf. loa once only, in 
a boy aged 11. Meinhof reports a cise in which the period 
elapsing between infection with F. loa and the appearance of 
embryos in the blood was at least 7 years. 

Slow development and a different habitat at different 
stages are not peculiar to L. loa only. F. cquina of the horse 
and ass and F. labiato-papillosa of deer and cattle wander about 
the subdermal connective tissues and frequently occur in the 
eyes during their semi-adult stage, but repair to the peri- 
toneal cavity when fully mature. The larvae of both are found 



784 LOA LOA [CHAP. 

in the blood of the respective hosts, and No5 has shown recently 
that F. labiato-papillosa is fostered and transmitted, like F. 
bancrofti and F. immitis, by an insect intermediary, to wit, the 
stinging-fly (Stomoxys calcitrans], amongst the cephalic muscles 
of which it undergoes development. 

This slow development of L. loa would seem to account for 
the very frequent failure to find the microfilaria in the blood in 
cases in which mature parasites have been extracted, a circum- 
stance which has been brought forward as an argument against 
the theory that mf. diurna is really the offspring of L. loa. 
Some time ago I was consulted by a lady who for seven years 
had been troubled with L. loa, and Calabar swellings, and had 
had three loas removed at different times from the neighbour- 
hood of the eye. On examining her day blood I found it full of 
innumerable specimens of mf. diurna. That these microfilarise 
were diurna was fully established by a series of carefully 
conducted observations carried on day and night for upwards 
of a week. The patient informed me that she believed the 
medical man who seven years before had extracted one of the 
loas from her eye had probably the specimen in his possession 
still. This I had an opportunity of examining. It was a 
mature female crowded with embryos in all stages of develop- 
ment, including free larval forms such as were found in the 
blood. It transpired that I had already, many years before, 
examined this specimen, and that, being interested in the sub- 
ject, I had written for specimens of the day blood of this 
patient soon after the extraction had been made. On refer- 
ring to my note-book I found a record of the result of my 
examination of this blood, and that no microfilarise were then 
found. From this it is evident that the mature Z. loa may be 

E resent in the tissues, and yet that embryos may be absent 
:om the blood. I cannot suggest an explanation of what is 
apparently an anomaly ; but the fact is definitely ascertained, 
and explains how it is that in many of the recorded cases of 
loa infection the embryos have been absent from the general 
circulation. It may be that it is not until the gravid female 
arrives at some organ or tissue that she deposits her young in 
such a position that they can get access to the circulation, and 
that the wanderings for which these worms are so remarkable 
are an effort to attain this situation. It would be well for 
those who have the opportunity to look for the parasite at 
autopsies, especially in the serous cavities. Quite recently 
Penel stated that he had found mf. loa in the saliva and urine 
of a patient who presented this larval filaria in the peripheral 
circulation. 

As yet it is impossible to estimate accurately the number 
of adult ioas present in any given infection, although in 
advanced cases some idea of this might be got from the 
number of microfilariae in the peripheral blood. As a rule it 
is safe to conclude that the particular loa that may show itself 
about the eye or elsewhere is only one of many. Thus, in 
1903, Brumpt, at the post-mortem of a negro whose blood con- 



XLII] PATHOGENESIS 785 

tained micro filariao (for which, under the impression that it was 
a new species, he suggested the name of F. bourgi), found in 
the tissues of the heart five adult worms. Four of these were 
cretified, but the fifth was alive and contained embryos similar 
to those in the blood. This worm he subsequently identified 
as a L. loa. In the following year Wurtz found mf.'diurna, 
in the blood of a Congolese negro suffering from sleeping 
sickn.ess. On the death of the patient he made a most careful 
post-mortem examination, and found two adult loas in the 
subcutaneous connective tissue of the arm. On the dissection 
being continued by Penel, over thirty additional specimens, 
male and female, were discovered under the skin of the limbs. 
There are not a few instances on record in which two or more 
loas have been extracted from the same patient. We may, 
therefore, be practically certain that in nearly every instance 
of this kind of filariasis the infection is multiple. 

There is evidence that after the death of L. loa calcification 
takes place, as in F. bancrofti. 

Pattiogenesis. As already stated, L. loa 
daring the period of its growth and development in 
man makes frequent excursions through the sub- 
dermal connective tissues. It has been noticed very 
frequently beneath the skin of the fingers, and it has 
been excised from under the skin of the back, from 
above the sternum, from the Jeft breast, the lingual 
frsenum, the loose skin of the penis, the eyelids, 
the conjunctiva, the anterior chamber of the eye. 
Ziemann says that it may wander about the scalp. 
The parts most frequently mentioned are the eyes, 
and, although the worm may have attracted more 
attention when in this situation, it seems as though 
it has a decided predilection for the eye and its 
neighbourhood. A patient informed me that the 
average rate at which a loa travelled was about an 
inch in two minutes. Both he and others have told 
me that warmth, such as in sitting before a fire, 
seemed to attract them to the surface of the body. 
As a rule, the migrations of the parasite give rise to 
no serious inconvenience, but they may cause prick- 
ings, itching, creeping sensations, and, occasionally, 
transient oedematous swellings, "Calabar swellings," 
in different parts of the body. When the parasite 
appears under the conjunctiva it may cause a con- 
siderable amount of irritation and congestion ; there 
may be actual pain even, associated with swelling 



786 CALABAR SWELLINGS [CHAP. 

and inability to use the eye and, perhaps, tumefaction 
of the eyelids. Should a loa wander into the vicinity 
of such a situation as the rima glottidis or the urethra 
the consequences might be serious. 

Bernard states that in operations for hydrocele he 
found L. loa encysted in the tunica vaginalis, and 
opines that they may be a cause of that condition ; 
and Ouzilleau claims to have found them frequently in 
operations on the genitalia. Leiper has found cretitied 
specimens in the mesentery and parietal peritoneum. 

CALABAR SWELLINGS 

Under this name Thompstone described certain 
fugitive swellings which are of frequen.t occurrence 
in parts of tropical West Africa southern Nigeria 
to Benguella and inland to the Upper Congo. They 
are found in natives and Europeans alike. I have 
seen many cases in Englishmen, especially in officials 
from the neighbourhood of Old Calabar. Thompstone 
says " the swellings are about the size of half a 
goose egg, painless, though somewhat' hot both ob- 
jectively and subjectively, not pitting on pressure, 
and usually disappear in about three days. They 
come suddenly and disappear gradually, and occur in 
any part of the body." Thompstone never saw more 
than one swelling at a time. They recur at irregular 
intervals and, it may be, during many years after the 
patient has returned to Europe, In some instances 
the swellings seem to be induced by the rubbing pro- 
voked by the irritation accompanying the presence of 
a L. loa just under the skin, in other instances they 
develop spontaneously. When occurring in the hand, 
or about the forearm, they may give rise to a sensa- 
tion of powerlessness and soreness as if the part had 
received a blow. They never suppurate. 

Although in a large proportion of cases L. loa 
larvae cannot be found, in others either the parent 
worm has shown itself on the eye, or its microfilarise 
have been detected in the blood. The latter cir- 
cumstance, together with the geographical feature of 
the endemicity of these swellings and their clinical 
characters, makes it practically certain that they are 



XLII] ONCHOCERCA VOLVULUS 787 

somehow produced by L. loa. On the supposition that 
the swelling might be caused by the emission of her 
larvae by a parent loa into the connective tissue. I 
endeavoured in one case, by aspirating the centre of 
the swelling with a hypodermic syringe, to sub- 
stantiate this speculation ; the result was negative, 
bub a second attempt on another patient yielded 
great numbers of microfilarise in the lymph abstracted. 
Notwithstanding this success it cannot be affirmed 
that the mechanism of the production of Calabar 
swellings has been solved. 

ONCHOCERCA VOLVULUS, Railliet and Henry, 1910 

Synonym. Filaria volvulus, Leuck., 1893. 

History. Onchocerca volvulus was discovered by 
a German medical missionary, who noticed peculiar 
worms in two tumours the size of a pigeon's egg, 
which he had removed, one from the scalp, the other 
from the chest of Gold Coast negroes. The tumours 
were forwarded to Leuck art, who described and 
named the parasite Filaria volvulus in 1893. In 
1899 Labadie-Lagrave and Deguy found an immature 
female filaria, which Blanchard identified as 0. vol- 
vulus, in a small tumour removed from the arm of a 
soldier, who must have contracted the infection six 
years previously whilst campaigning in Dahomey. 
Labadie - Lagrave and Deguy were able to show 
that the parasite occupied a lymphatic vessel. In 
1901 Prout described two cases from Sierra Leone. 
Brumpt, during his travels through Central Africa, 
had the opportunity of examining numerous cases. 
Recently Fiilleborn, Parsons, and Clapier have added 
considerably to our knowledge of this parasite. Other 
species, such as 0. gibsoni, are parasitic in cattle 
and give rise to small nodes in beef. It has been 
suggested by Cleland that this species is transmitted 
by Stomoxys. 

Oeograpliical distribution. The earlier 
cases were reported from the West Coast of Africa 
Sierra Leone, Gold Coast, Dahomey. Brumpt met 
with his cases along the Welle between Dongon and 



788 ONCHOCERCA VOLVULUS [CHAP. 

M'Binia. He believes that in that region 0. volvulus 
affects about 5 per cent, of the riverine population. 
He saw cases 011 the Himbri, and he refers to others 
on the Kibali and on several of the tributaries of the 
Welle. Cooke met with cases in Uganda, Fiilleborn 
in Cameroons, Parsons in northern Nigeria. Clapier 
reports many cases in French Guinea. 

Tlie parasite. According to Parsons, the adult male 
is 20-32 mm. in length by 0'2 mm. in breadth. The body is 
white, filiform, tapezing at both ends. The head is rounded 
and has a -diameter of 0*04 mm. The cuticle is transversely 
striated. The mouth is unarmed. The alimentary canal is 
straight and ends in a subterminal anus. The tail terminates 
in a single spiral, and is bulbous at the tip. There are two 
pairs of preanal papillae, two pairs of postanal papillae, and an 
intermediate single large papilla. Two unequal spicules may 
be seen protruding from the cloaca. 

According to Braun, the adult female measures 60-70 mm. 
in length by 0'36 mm. in breadth ; more recent measurements 
are much less, 35-40 mm. in length (Schafer). The head is 
rounded and truncated ; it measures 0'(M mm. in diameter. 
The tail is curved. The striations of the cuticle are not so dis- 
tinct as in the male. The egg possesses a peculiar striated shell. 

The larva measures about 300 p. in length ; it has no 
" sheath." The body tapers from about the last fifth of its 
length and terminates in a sharply pointed tail. At about the 
anterior fifth of the body there is a gap in the central column 
of cells (V spot). 

At least four males and two females are present in every 
tumour. 

Pathogenesis. 0. volvulus is found in peculiar 
subcutaneous fibrous tumours, the size of a pea to that 
of a pigeon's egg. The same patient may present one 
or several of these tumours. The regions of the body 
most frequently affected are those in which the peri- 
pheral lymphatics converge. Thus the tumours are 
usually found in the axilla, in the popliteal space, 
about the elbow, in the suboccipital region, and in the 
intercostal spaces. They are never adherent to the 
surrounding structures and can be easily enucleated. 
They are formed of a dense mass of connective tissue, 
which enwraps the parasites and encloses small cyst- 
like spaces filled with a greyish viscous substance con- 
sisting almost entirely of microfil arise. The position 
of the adult worms within these tumours is very 
remarkable. The greater length of the coiled-up 



XLIT] ONCHOCEECA VOLVULUS 789 

bodies of the females is embedded in the connective 
stroma ; consequently they cannot be extracted unless 
in fragments. The males lie in the little cyst-like 
cavities in the tumours, and can be turned out entire. 
The posterior extremity of the male with its copu- 
lating organs, and the anterior extremity of the female 
with its vaginal opening, are free and contiguous in 
one of the spaces. 

The formation of the tumours is elucidated by 
Labadie-Lagrave and Deguy's case. These authors 
found an immature female 0. volvulus in a lymphatic 
vessel partly obstructed by an infiltration of fibrin 
and leucocytes. It appears, therefore, that the pre- 
sence of the parasites within the lymphatics gives 
rise to an inflammatory process, and that the con- 
sequent fibrinous deposit envelops the parasites, 
obliterates the lumen of the vessel, and ultimately 
isolates the affected tract. According to the natives, 
the tumours may last indefinitely, and they seldom 
ulcerate or suppurate.* Some old patients told Brumpt 
that their tumours had been present since childhood. 
(See Juxta-articular Nodules, p. 919.) 

Ouzilleau concludes from some remarkable but 
unconfirmed observations that in the Mbomou region, 
Equatorial Africa, where F. bancrofti is absent or 
very rare, but elephantiasis, lymphocele, and lymph- 
scrotum very common, 0. volvulus is the cause of 
these diseases in that district. Micrqfilaria volvulus, 
he states, is invariably present in the enlarged 
inguino-crural glands. 

Life-history. Nothing is known of the life- 
history of this filaria. Recently, larvae, presumably 
those of 0. volvulus, have been found in the peri- 
pheral circulation by Fiilleborn, Simon, Ouzilleau, 
and Rodenwaldt. Brumpt, from the examination of 
numerous sections of filarial tumours, is confident 
that the microfilarise leave the cysts. He has seen 
them round the periphery of the tumours, and believes 
they may reach the lymphatics and thence the general 
circulation. He even suggests that the infection is 

* Schafer has recently reported finding, in the Cameroons, 
portions of undoubted 0. volvulus in deep muscular abscesses. 



790 



SPARGANUM MANSONI 



[CHAP. 



transmitted by some blood-sucking insect, and, con- 
sidering its riverine distribution, he points more 
especially to the glossinse. 

SPARGANUM MANSONI (Cobbold, 1883) 

Synonyms. Ligula mansoni ; Bothriocephalus liguloides ; 
B. mansoni ; Dibothrium mansoni. 

This parasite, the larva of a cestode belonging to 
the family Dibothriocephalidse, and, provisionally, to 
the artificial collective group Sparganum,* was dis- 




Fig. 159. Sparganum. 

a, Natural size: b, anterior extremity ; c, posterior extremity. Extracted from 
an abscess in a Masai. (After Sambon.) 

covered in 1882 by the writer in making the post- 
mortem examination of a Chinaman in Amoy. So far 
only the larval form is known, the size varying accord- 
ing to stage of development. The following measure- 
ments have been given : length, 8 to 36 cm. ; breadth, 
O'l to 12 mm. ; thickness, 0-5 to 1-75 mm. My own 
specimens measured about 30 to 35 cm. in length, by 
about 2-5 mm. in breadth. During life they are 

* This group includes larval stages of bothriocephaloid worms 
which have not reached a stage of development enabling deter- 
mination of genus. 



xtii] SPARGANUM MANSONI 791 

extremely elastic ; after immersion in alcohol they 
contract and wrinkle. The anterior end is broader 
than the posterior, is rounded, and presents a papil- 
liform projection on which is found the compressed 
and more or less completely invaginated head. (Fig. 
159.) The body is flat, unsegmented, and transversely 
wrinkled. On the ventral surface there is, as a rule, 
a distinct longitudinal median groove ; on the dorsal 
surface there may be two longitudinal grooves. No 
sexual organs are present. 

In my case the parasites (11) lay under the peri- 
toneum in the neighbourhood of the kidneys and iliac 
fossae, and (1) apparently free in the pleural cavity. 
They were more or less coiled up and irregularly 
disposed in the subperitoneal fascia, looking like 
ribbon-strings of fat until turned out, when they 
exhibited feeble yet distinct movements. Scheube 
found a specimen in the urethra of a Japanese. Ijima 
and Murata also found the same parasite in the 
urethra, the worm appearing during micturition with 
its head projecting from the urethra and occluding it. 
Thrice very young specimens have been found in Japan 
lying beneath the conjunctiva and producing swellings 
the size of a bean. In one of the Japanese cases the 
parasite was found in the subcutaneous connective 
tissue of the thigh, where during nine years it gave 
rise to indolent tumours that recurred fairly regularly 
every summer at about the same spot ; it seemed to 
change its position very readily, disappearing in about 
ten days. At the time of its last appearance the 
swelling attained the size of a fist ; an abscess formed 
from which the worm was extracted. A similar para- 
site, identified by Sambon, was likewise extracted 
from an abscess on the thigh of a Masai, in German 
East Africa, by Baxter ; and another was found by 
Daniels in a Carib in British Guiana. 

Nothing is known of the life -history of this worm. 
Leuckart conjectures that the definitive host is prob- 
ably a carnivorous animal closely associated with 
man, possibly the dog, the cat, or perhaps the pig. 
Looss believes that it is an aquatic animal (a bird or 
a fish), because the parasite appears to endeavour to 



792 



OCULAR SPARGANOSIS 



[CHAP. 



leave the body of its intermediary host. Analogy and 
structure suggest that on entering the definitive host 
the body of the parasite disappears and a tapeworm 
strobila develops from the posterior part of the 
surviving head and neck, as in Cysticercus Jasciolaris 
of the mouse, or in the plerocercoid of Dibothrio- 
cej)halus latus. 

Ocular spargauosis. Casaux and others 
have recently called attention to the marked frequency 
in and about the Tonkin delta of the condition they 







Fig. 160. Different forms of Sparganum proliferum. (Alter Ijima. 

designate ocular sparganosis. Pain, redness, redema 
of the upper eyelid, with lachrymation and marked 
ptosis, lead to an examination and the discovery of 
an almond-sized indurated nodule. Incision of this 
reveals a small yellowish fatty mass which on section 
is found to contain a coiled-up S. mansoni. It is 
probable that in these cases similar parasites are 
present in other regions of the body. 

SPARGANUM PROLIFERUM (!JIMA, 1905) 

Synonyms. Plerocerwides prolifer, Plerocercus prolifcr. 
History* Sparganum proliferum has been reported 



but once, from Tokyo, Japan, 
subcutaneous tissue in man. 



It was found encysted in the 



XLII] SPAKGANUM PROLIFERUM 793 

According to Ijima, who describes it, this larva (Fig. 160) 
may attain 1-12 mm. in length by 2-5 mm. in breadth. The 
anterior is narrower and more motile than the posterior end, 
and may exhibit an apical depression which possibly serves as 
a sucker. The body, with the exception of the head, contains a 
number of roundish calcareous corpuscles, and in older speci- 
mens there are also reserve-food bodies irregularly distributed. 
These larvae can multiply by transverse fission. They give rise 
to supernumerary heads, which become independent. There 
are no genital organs. 

In the single case reported, thousands of parasites were 
present. In a small piece of skin, 11 cm. 2 , Ijima found as 
many as 60. The worms occupied small roundish or ovoid 
cysts (1 to 8 mm. long by 2 to 5 mm. in width) in the 
subcutaneous cellular tissue. The cysts could be enucleated 
quite easily, and contained one or more parasites. They had 
been present for over two years, causing an enlarged condition 
of the thigh and an acne-like appearance of the skin. The 
patient was 33 years old, and, eight years previously, had 
suffered from intestina taeniasis. 



CHAPTER XLIII 
III. PARASITES OF THE LUNGS 

ENDEMIC HAEMOPTYSIS 
PARAGONIMUS WESTERMANI (Kerbert, 1878) 

Synonyms. Distoma ivestermani : D. ringeri ; D.pulmonis ; 
D. pulmonale ; D. cerebrale ; Mesogonimus westermani; M. pul- 
monalis ; M. ringeri. 

History. This disease and the characteristic 
ova appearing in the sputum of the subjects were 
described by Baelz and the author in 1880. Ringer, 
in 1881, was the first to find the mature parasite 
which was afterwards described by Cobbold under 
the name Distomum ringeri ; subsequently it was 
recognized to be identical with the previously de- 
scribed Paragonimus westermani of the tiger. The 
main features of its life-history and pathological 
bearings have been worked out recently by Japanese 
observers. 

Geographical distribution. Endemic hae- 
moptysis occurs in China, Japan, Korea, Formosa, and 
the Philippines. In many of the endemic districts 
a notable percentage of the population is affected. 
Thus, Kakami states that in certain Korean villages 
32 per cent, of the men, 48 per cent, of the dogs, and 
1 to 2 per cent, of the pigs are infected with the 
parasite causing this peculiar form of haemoptysis. 
It is not improbable that, as knowledge extends, the 
disease will be found to exist in other countries. 
The cause, Paragonimus westermani, has been found 
in the United States in the cat, in the dog, and in the 
domesticated hog; ere long, therefore, we may hear 
of endemic haemoptysis in man in America. The 
Chinese and Japanese are nowadays to be found in 
almost every land, and doubtless they carry with them 
their peculiar parasites Opisthorchis sinensis t Fascio 
794 



SYMPTOMS 795 

lopsis buski, Schistosomum japonicum, and also P. 
westermani. The establishment of these exotic species 
will depend, among other things, on their finding 
appropriate intermediary hosts. 

Symptoms. The subjects of endemic haemoptysis 
have a chronic cough, which is usually most urgent 
in the morning on rising. The fits of coughing 
eventuate in the expulsion of a peculiar rusty-brown, 
pneumonic-like sputum. This sputum can be pro- 
duced at will almost at any time, and often in con- 
siderable quantity. In addition to the chronic cough 
and the tenacious rusty expectoration referred to, the 
patient is liable to irregular attacks of haemoptysis. 
Though usually induced by violent exertion, occasion- 
ally such attacks come on without apparent cause. 
The hemoptysis may be trifling ; on the other hand, 
it may be so profuse as to threaten life at all events, 
to cause intense anaemia. 

The sputum. On placing a minute portion of the 
viscid, pneumonic-like sputum under the microscope, 
its peculiar colour is found to be due partly to red 
blood-corpuscles, partly to a crowd of dark- brown, 
thick-shelled, operculated ova (Fig. 161). These ova 
vary a good deal in size and shape ; they are all 
distinctly oval, have a yellow, smooth, double-outlined 
shell, and measure from 80 to 100 jj. in length by 
40 to 60 p in breadth. If the sputum be shaken up 
in water, and the water be renewed from time to 
time, in the course of a month or six weeks 
longer or shorter according to temperature a ciliated 
miracidium is developed in each ovum. When the 
ovum is mature, on placing it on a slide and exer- 
cising slight pressure on the cover-glass the operculum 
will be forced back, and the miracidium will imme- 
diately emerge and begin to swim about and gyrate 
in the water. 

Pathological anatomy. On making a section 
of the lungs in this disease, a larger or smaller num- 
ber of what are known as " burrows " are discovered 
scattered about this organ, particularly towards the 
periphery. These burrows consist of areas, some- 
what larger than a filbert, of infiltrated lung tissue in 



796 ENDEMIC HEMOPTYSIS [CHAP. 

which can be seen a number of tunnels filled with 
the same material that constitutes the characteristic 
sputum, and also containing one, two, or more small 
trematodes. The septa between the tunnels may 
break down and a considerable cavity be thus pro- 
duced ; and as this occurs in connection with one 
of the bronchi, with which the tunnels always 
communicate, it may give rise to the appearance of 




Fig. 161. Ova of Paragoniraus westermani in sputum. 

a dilated bronchus. One burrow may communicate 
with another. 

When first discovered it was supposed that P. 
westermani was confined to the lungs. We now 
know that it may affect the liver, peritoneum, testes, 
intestine, skin, muscle, and brain. In the brain it 
forms a sort of tunnelled tumour similar to those in 
the lungs, and by the pressure or irritation proceed- 
ing from this tumour may give rise to a peculiar and 
ultimately fatal form of Jacksonian epilepsy. 



XLTII] THE PAKAS1TE 797 

The parasite (Fig. 162). The parasite itself is red- 
dish brown in colour, thick and fleshy, and oval in form. So 
thick is it that its transverse section is almost round. It 
measures 8 to 16 mm. in length by 4 to 8 mm. in breadth, 
and is covered with broad scale - like spines. The anterior 
extremity is bluntly rounded and without cephalic cone ; the 
oral sucker (Fig. 162, m) (0-88-M2 by '80-0-83 mm.) ter- 
minal or sub-terminal; ventral sucker (Fig. 162, ac) (0 '88-1 '2 
by 0-86-1-44 mm.) slightly larger than the oral sucker and 
situated somewhat anteriorly to the middle of the body. 
The pharynx is elongate, but the oesophagus is very short, 
so that the bifurcation of the intestine is considerably anterior 




ex.c. 



Fig. 162. Paragonimus westermani. (Partly after Looss.) 
A, Magnified ; u, natural size. (See text.) 

to the ventral sucker. The intestinal caeca (Fig. 162, t) run 
somewhat zigzag to the caudal end of the body. The genital 
pore opens close to the posterior margin of the ventral sucker. 
The testes (Fig. 162, t,t) are tubular, ramified, and situated on 
each side of the middle line, one slightly posterior to the other. 
The ovary (Fig. 162, o) is branched and is placed somewhat 
posteriorly to the ventral sucker, and either to the right or left 
of the middle line. The shell gland is lobate ; the uterus 
(Fig. 162,?^) short and usually massed ; the vitellaria (Fig. 
162, rg) are marginal and greatly developed. 

For many years the mode in which this parasite entered man 
was unknown. Analogy suggested that the ova expectorated 
by the host were washed into water rivers, ponds, wells, etc. 



798 ENDEMIC HAEMOPTYSIS [CHAP. 

and that the miracidiura, on being hatched out, entered some 
undetected mollusc ; but further than this conjecture could not 
venture until Nakagawa, Kakami, Myairi, Yoshida, and other 
Japanese investigators showed that on escape from the egg the 
miracidium enters a fresh- water snail probably Melania liber- 
tina or M. obliquegranulosa wherein it undergoes the usual 
developmental changes of sporocyst and redia, eventuating in 
the formation of cercariae. The cercarite in due time escape 
into the water, and, finding their way into certain species 
of fresh-water crabs Potamon obtusipes, Eriocheir japonica, 
Potamon dehaanii encyst themselves in the liver, muscles, etc., 
and especially in the gills of the crustaceans, and undergo de- 
velopmental changes. Their further progress is not exactly 
known, but in dogs or cats fed on infected crabs the cercariae, 
on reaching the ileum of these vertebrates, escape from their 
cysts in from twenty-four to forty-two hours, penetrate the 
gut wall and pass into the peritoneal cavity, and a few of 
them, traversing the diaphragm, enter the lungs ; a few pass 
into the liver, muscles, and other organs and tissues, and, 
after about ninety days, having attained sexual maturity, 
produce eggs. It is still doubtful as to how the encysted 
cercaria escapes from the crab, and as to how it obtains, in 
nature, access to man. However it may be in Japan, where 
raw fish is often eaten, neither the Koreans nor the Formosans 
eat uncooked crabs, and yetP. westermani is very common in 
certain districts of Korea and Formosa. Possibly encystment 
in the crab is not a biological necessity for the parasite ; it 
may be that the cercarias, which can penetrate the cuticle or 
organs of the crab, can also penetrate those of man, and that 
man is infected with P. westermani in the same way as he is 
infected with the three species of schistosomes S. h&matobium, 
S. mansoni, and S.japonicum. 

Diagnosis. Diagnosis of endemic haemoptysis 
is at once established by the discovery of the charac- 
teristic ova in the almost equally characteristic 
sputum. Rales and other physical signs of lung 
consolidation are not usually discoverable. If the 
intestine or liver is implicated, ova may appear in 
the stools. 

In the case of one-sided convulsions, or in hemi- 
plegic affections occurring in a native of or in a 
visitor from the countries in which this trematode is 
endemic, the sputum should be examined on the 
chance of discovering evidence of the parasite. Should 
ova be found, there is a strong presumption that 
the cerebral trouble arises from trematode tumour in 
the brain. 



XLIII] CASES IN THE PHILIPPINES 799 

Treatment. Hitherto no means of expelling 
this parasite from the lungs has been discovered. In 
the case of cerebral distomatosis it might be possible 
by an operation to remove the parasite and associated 
tumour, and thus afford a chance of recovery in what 
has hitherto proved a fatal condition. 

Prophylaxis in this, as in so many animal 
parasitic diseases, principally lies in the direction of 
securing a pure water-supply for drinking and bath- 
ing purposes, and avoiding all uncooked articles of 
diet which might be supposed to contain the young 
parasites. The sputum should be destroyed. 

NOTE. Musgrave (Philippine Journal of Science, March, 
1907) has shown that paragonomiasis is not uncommon in the 
Philippines. He met with 17 cases in one year. He gives a 
detailed account of the pathological anatomy of this helmin- 
thiasis, bringing out especially the important fact that in a 
proportion of instances the infection is of a general character, 
the peculiar bluish cyst-like burrows of the parasite occurring 
in many organs and tissues. The infiltration of the tissues 
by the eggs produces, especially in serous membranes, little 
brownish-red patches, sometimes quite visible to the naked 
eye. The intestinal submucosa is a common seat of infiltration, 
and here the presence of the ova may give rise to inflammatory 
reaction, ending, perhaps, in ulceration and in the appearance 
of ova in the stools. 

In reading Musgrave's paper I was particularly struck by 
the statement that in one of his cases he found no fewer than 100 
mature parasites congregated in a psoas abscess. It is usually 
believed that the flukes enter their vertebrate hosts as cercarite, 
and that they at once proceed to their permanent habitat and to 
sexual maturity. If this be the case with P. westermani, it is 
difficult to understand how, without any special anatomical 
lead, so large a number as 100 cercarite contrived to arrive at 
exactly the same spot. 



CHAPTER XLIV 



IV. PARASITES OF THE LIVER 
OPISTHORCHIS NOVERCA, Braun, 1903 

Synonyms. Dlstoma conjunctum; Paropisthorchis caninus 
(Barker, 1912). 

History, Opisthorchis noverca was discovered 
by MacConnell at Calcutta in 1876. Lewis and 

Cunningham, who a few 
years previously had 
found a similar parasite 
in the liver of pariah 
dogs from the same 
locality, suggested that 
both their own species 
and MacCoimeli's were 
identical with the D. 
conjunctum (now called 
Metorchis conjunctus) 
found by Cobbold in the 
liver of an American 
fox (Canis fulvus) that 
died in London. In 
1903 Braun showed 
that the Indian trema- 
tode belongs to a dif- 
ferent species, and gave 
it the name of Opisthor- 
chis noverca. 

Geographical dis- 
tribution. India. 

Zoological distri- 
bution. As stated above, it has been found in the gall- 
ducts of the dog (C. familiaris). 

The parasite. The description of the parasite is 
chiefly from the data and drawings furnished by MacConnell, 
and needs revision. 0. noverca is of a lanceolate shape, and 

800 




Fig. 163. Opisthorchis noverca. 

A, Greatly magnified ; B, natural size. 

(See text.) 



LIVER PARASITES 801 

more attenuated anteriorly than posteriorly. It measures 
from 9 to 12 mm. in length by 2'5 mm. in breadth. The oral 
sucker (Fig. 163, m) is terminal and larger than the acetabu- 
lum or ventral sucker (Fig. 163, ac), which is situated close 
to it, just below the bifurcation of the intestine. The cuticle 
is densely covered with spines. The pharynx (Fig. 163, pb] 
is large and globular ; the intestinal caeca extend to about the 
posterior eighth of the body. The testes (Fig. 163, t,t) are 
in the posterior third and somewhat apart. The anterior one 
is roundish, the posterior one lobate. The ovary (Fig. 163, 
ov) is placed at about the middle of the body. The uterus 
(Fig. 163, ut) appears to be poorly developed, its convolu- 
tions spreading laterally barely beyond the caeca. The vitel- 
laria (Fig. 163, vt) appear to extend from acetabulum to 
posterior testicle. The eggs are oval and measure 34 /u by 
19 to 21 p. 

Pathogeiiesis. Only a very few cases have 
been reported. In two, described by MacConnell, 
the parasites were found in large numbers in the bile- 
ducts, which were thickened and sacculated. 

CLONORCHIS SINENSIS (Cobbold, 1875) 

Synonyms* Distoma sinense ; D. spathulatum ; D. 
japonicum ; D. innocuum ; Opisthorchis sinensis ; Clonorchis en- 
demicus. 

History. Clonorchis sinensis was discovered 
almost simultaneously by MacConnell in India and 
MacGregor in Mauritius, in 1874. 

Geographical distribution It has been 
found in many Eastern countries, including India, 
Mauritius, Japan, Korea, Formosa, China and Tonkin. 
In the last-named country it appears to be very 
common. In Central Japan, according to Katsurada, 
there are certain districts in which it affects from 56 
to 67 per cent, of the population. 

The parasite. C, sinensis (Fig. 164) measures from 
10 to 20 mm. in length, by 2 to 5 mm. in breadth ; it is 
oblong, narrow, flat and somewhat pointed anteriorly, reddish 
in colour, and nearly transparent. The oral sucker is larger 
than the ventral acetabulum, which is situated almost on the 
border between the first and second fourths of the body. The 
cuticle has no spines. The pharynx is globular and short 
(Fig. 164, pb}, the oesophagus is slender and 0*17 mm. long. 
The bifurcation of the intestine is nearer to the oral than to 
the ventral sucker. The intestinal caeca are simple, slender, 
and extend almost to the posterior end of the body. The 
genital pore opens on the middle line immediately in front 

2A 



802 



CLONORCHIS SINENSIS 



[CHAP. 



of the acetabulum. The testes are branched and situated 
in the posterior portion of the body, one behind the 
other. The ovary is trilobate and anterior to the testes. 
The uterus is moderately developed, and its coils are an- 
terior to the genital glands. The vitellaria are moderately 
developed and occupy about the middle third of the body. 
The eggs are 28 to 30 /* in length by 15 to 17 /* in 
breadth, operculated, almost black in colour, and contain 
a ciliated embryo. Probably its immature stages are passed 
in a mollusc (?Melania obliquegranulosa, M. libertina) or other 
small, soft-skinned, fresh-water 

animal. According to Yokagawa, 

cercarise of this species are found 
in Japan in fresh- water fish of the 
family Cyprinidae. Quite recently 
Kobayashi has traced the cercariaa 
into a variety of fresh- water fish 
in which they become encysted in 
the muscular tissue and advance 
in development. In cats, dogs, 
rabbits, guineapigs, and rats, fed 
on infected fish, mature C. sine.nsis, 
producing egg&, were found after 
twenty-six days from the time of 
feeding. 

Pathogenesis. C. sin- 
ensis inhabits the bile - ducts 
and gall-bladder. It thickens 
the biliary canals and expands 
them in places into cavities 
and diverticula as large as 
filberts. In these cavities 
vast numbers of parasites 
may be found. The diver- 
ticula communicate with the 
bile-ducts, along which the 
ova of the parasites, and sometimes the parasites 
themselves, escape into the intestine. The affected 
liver is enlarged as a whole, although the tissue in 
the immediate neighbourhood of the diseased bile- 
ducts is atrophied. The spleen, also, may be hyper- 
trophied, and the intestine in a condition of chronic 
catarrh. Some instances are recorded of the presence 
of this trematode in the pancreatic ducts, in the duo- 
denum, and in the stomach. 

This parasite, which for long was supposed to be 




.ex p. 

Fig. 164.-Clonorcliis sinensis. 
{Partly after Loess.) 

A, Magnified ; B, natural size. 
(See text.) 



XLIV] CLONORCHIS SINBNSIS 803 

practically innocuous, is now held to be the cause 
of a serious disease of the liver, which may terminate 
fatally ; indeed there can be no doubt of this when 
one considers tnat in some of the cases recorded 
several thousand parasites were present. However, 
we should not forget possible confusion with another 
grave distomiasis of Japan and other Eastern coun- 
tries, due to Schistosomum japonicum. 

When the infection is severe the liver becomes 




Fig. 165. Ova of Clonorehis sinensis, x 250. 
(Photograph by Dr. John Bell.) 

enlarged, and chronic diarrhoea, with recurring attacks 
of jaundice, sets in. Later, anasarca appears, and 
gradually a cachexia, resembling that of sheep-rot, 
is established, which, in the course of several years, 
may prove fatal. 

It would be well to bear this parasite in mind 
in approaching the diagnosis of obscure hepatic 
disease associated with diarrhoea and jaundice in 
patients from the East. The discovery of the ova 
(Fig. 165) in the stools should guide to a correct 
diagnosis. 



804 CLONORCHIS ENDEMICUS [CHAP. 

Treatment. So far no specific treatment has 
been found for this disease. The patient should be 
removed to a non-infected area and given nourishing 
food. Recently salol has been reported as beneficial 
in the analogous liver-fluke disease of sheep. 

CLONORCHIS ENDEMICUS (Baelz, 1883)* 

Synonym. Distoma japonicum (R. Blanchard, 1886). 

This trematode is found in Japan, where it is com- 
mon in man, and in cats, dogs, and pigs. It is smaller 
than C. sinensis, 6-13 mm. in length by 1-8-2*6 mm. 
in breadth. There are no pigment granules in the 
parenchyma. 

Kobayashi has found cats commonly infected with 
this parasite ; he has also found an encysted distome 
in the muscles of certain fresh- water fish /'seudo- 
rasbora parva, Leucopodia guntheri, and others 
especially near the villages of Kogo and Sanban, near 
Okayama. Eggs of this distome are found in the 
faeces of kittens one month after they have been fed 
on the flesh of such fish. On dissection of these 
kittens numerous adult distomes were found in the 
bile-ducts, gall-bladder, hepatic ducts, pancreas, and 
even in the duodenum. Kobayashi was also able to 
infect rabbits and guineapigs in the same way. 
Twenty -two days after the first infection the distomes 
were found to be mature and to contain eggs. In the 
younger stages the worms possess spines which are 
deciduous. 

The fish act only as the second intermediary host ; 
the first intermediary host still remains to be found. 

Patliogenesis. Lesions similar to those caused 
by (7. sinensis are attributable to C. endemicus, to- 
gether with a grave cachexia characterized by enlarge- 
ment of the liver, diarrhoea, and ultimately anasarca. 

Prophylaxis. Manifestly the Japanese habit of 
eating raw fish is to be deprecated. Animals and men 
harbouring the parasite should be prevented from 
fouling water whether used for drinking, bathing, 
or for agricultural purposes. 

* According to Leiper, C. endemicus is not a distinct species- 
but only a small form of G. sinensis. 



XLTV] HISTORY DISTRIBUTION 



805 



POROCEPHALUS ARMILLATUS (Wyman, 1848) 

Synonyms. Linguatula armUlata ; L. constricta ; Penta- 
stomum constrictum ; P. polyzonum ; P. diesingi ; P. euryzonum ; 
Nematoideum hominis. 

History. The larval form of this vermiform arthropod, 
belonging to the family Linguatulidce, genus Porocephalus, was 
discovered in 1847 by Pruner, who found it, in Cairo, in the 
livera of two negroes. It must have been found in man before 
that date, since Pruner himself informs us that he saw two 
specimens in the Pathological Museum of Bologna, labelled 
" Insects from the liver of man." Subsequently it was found 
in man by Bilharz, Fenger, Kear- 
ney, Crawford, Marchoux, Chalmers 
and others. In 1852 von Siebold 
proposed to call it Pentastomum 
constricium ; but Shipley, in his 
revision of the family Linguatulidce 
(1898), points out that the adult 
form was discovered and named 
Linguatula armUlata in 1848 by 
Wyman, who found it in the 
lungs of an African python. Ship- 
ley further considers that Hoyle's 
Pentastomum protelis from the aard- 
wolf (Proteles cristata], Wedl's P. 
leonis from the lion, Van Beneden's 
P. diesingi from the mandrill 
(Cynocephalus mormon], and Hart- 
ley's P. polyzonum from an African 
python, belong to the same species. 
He also states that, in accordance 
with the rules of zoological nomen- 
clature, the generic name for the 
cylindrical Linguatulidce should be 
Porocephalus. a term introduced by 

Humboldt eight years before Ku- Fig. 166. Porocephalus armil- 
dolphi proposed the name Pentasto- 
mum. Neumann (1899) refers the 
larval forms found in man to Poro- 
cephalus monUiformix, a species discovered by Diesing in 1836 
in the Indian python (Python molurus]. Looss (1905) is of 
opinion that Wyman's and Diesing's species are identical. 
Sambon agrees with Shipley's determination, based principally 
on the number of rings, which are never more than 22 in 
P. armillatus, but 28 to 30 in P. moniliformis. 

Oeogrsiphical distribution. P.annillatus seems 
to be confined to tropical Africa, and hitherto, as regards man, 
to negroes only, among whom it is far from being uncommon. 
Dr. Salm has found a porocephalus encysted beneath the 
serous coat of the small intestine of a Djambi native in Java. 
He gives no description, but mentions it under the name 




latus, natural 

Sambon.) 



3. (After 



806 POROCEPHALUS ARMILLATUS [CHAP. 

Porocephalus moniliformis, together with similar parasites 
found in the Indian civet and in the tiger. 

Zoological distribution. The adult form in- 
habits pythons and other snakes. It has been found in Python 
sebee by Wyman, Sambon, and others ; in the royal python 
(Python regius) and in the nose-horned viper (Bitis nasicornis) 
by Sambon. The larval or, more correctly, the nymphal 
form has been found in the lion, in the leopard, in the man- 
drill, in the aard-wolf. Pruner found it in the giraffe, Looss 
in Syke's monkey (Cercopithecus albigularis) , and Sambon in 
the Pousargues guenon (Cercopithecus pousarguei) and in the 
African hedgehog (Erinaceus athiopicus). 

Tlie parasite (Fig. 166). Body vermiform, yellow- 
ish translucent, larger in females (9-12 cm. long by 5-9 mm. 
broad) than in males (3-4-5 cm. long by 3-4 mm. broad) ; 
cylindrical in the anterior half, slightly tapering posteriorly, 
and terminating in a blunt-pointed cone. It is characterized 
by the presence of prominent 
opaque rings 1-2 mm. wide, 
numbering 16 or 17 in the males, 
18 to 22 in the females, placed 
somewhat obliquely and separ- 
ated by interannular spaces 2-5 
mm. wide except between the 
first rings, which are faintly in- 
dicated by shallow linear furrows. 
^ There is no clear distinction be- 
/. tween cephalothorax and abdo- 
Fig. 167. Nymph of Poroce- men, and the rings nearest the 
phalus armillatus. (After cephalothorax are sometimes so 
indistinct that it is almost im- 
possible to make out their actual number. The cephalothorax 
is depressed, slightly convex on the dorsal surface, more or 
less concave on the ventral surface. It is rounded anteriorly ; 
posteriorly it is limited by the first body rings. It varies 
considerably in length ; its breadth is from 4 to 7 mm. The 
mouth, opening on its ventral surface about 1 mm. from the 
anterior border, is lipped by a chitinous ring. Above it are 
two prominent papillae. On either side of the mouth are two 
protractile chitinous hooks similar in shape to feline claws. 
The anus is terminal at the posterior end. The genital orifice 
of the male is at the anterior end of the abdomen in the 
middle of the ventral surface of the first body ring ; that of 
the female opens in the middle of the ventral surface of the 
caudal cone at about 1 mm. from the anus. The female is 
oviparous ; the eggs are broadly elliptical. 

The nymphal form (Fig. 167) is usually found spirally coiled 
within a cyst, the ventral surface corresponding, as a rule, to the 
convexity of the curve. In shape and structure the nymph 
closely resembles the adult, and the number of rings is the 
same. Calcification of the nymphal form in the liver may 
take place. 




XLIV] GIGANTORHYNCHUS 807 

Lire-history. Little until lately was known of the life- 
history of P. armillafus ; it is similar to that of the European 
linguatulid (Linguatula t&noides), which is also an occasional 
parasite of man. The ova, disseminated by snakes harbouring 
the adult form, reach the intermediary host probably with 
its food or drinking-water.* The larvae then penetrate the 
mucosa, where some remain (Fiilleborn) ; others pass on and 
become encysted in almost any organ or tissue, more especially 
liver, mesentery, or lungs. At a certain stage of development 
they escape from their cysts and migrate to the serous cavities, 
where they cause considerable inflammation. As a rule at this 
stage they are swallowed by their definitive host. 

PathogenesiS. There is much uncertainty as to the 
pathogeny of this parasite. Some consider it quite harmless. 
There can be no doubt as to the gravity of a heavy infection 
at the time when the parasites are migrating in their inter- 
mediary host. In Kearney's case, reported by Aitken, twenty 
or thirty parasites were found encysted in the liver and one 
or two in the lungs. The lungs were greatly congested. In 
Marchoux and Clouard's case the parasites were found in the 
liver and in the mesentery all along the intestine, but espeeially 
about the caecum. In Chalmers' case numerous parasites were 
found moving freely in the abdominal cavity over the surface 
of the various organs. A large number were found within the 
lumen of the small intestine. Many were still encysted in 
the lungs. 

The diagnosis of porocephalus infection is impossible. 

GIGANTORHYNCHUS MONILIFORMIS (Bremser, 1911) 

This is a common parasite of the rat in many parts of the 
world. Christopherson found one specimen in the intestine 
of a Soudanese. It is a white parasite with attenuated ex- 
tremities, with many rings, resembling a porocephalus. The 
male is 4-5 cm., the female 7-10 cm. in length. 

* Experimental work has been done in this direction by Broden 
and Rodhain, who gave porocephalus eggs in drinking-water to 
sleeping-sickness patients in whom post mortem the larvae were 
found encysted in the liver. Fulleborn fed two monkeys on 
eggs obtained from trachea! mucus of an infected python : one 
monkey died after 60, the other after 300 days, enormous numbers 
of encysted larvae being found in every organ of the body. 
Twelve snakes were fed on the monkeys' bodies : one developed 
adult porocephali in the lungs, the larvae having bored their way 
through the stomach wall. 



CIIA1TKU XLV 



V. INTESTINAL PARASITES 
1. NEMATODES 



'li< i os< o|i< :il <-\:iiiiiii:ili4n of 

for <M ;i of lll(< sillllll |3irilsil4>s. If ll,, l..-,-n Of 
Mir n.ilivr! ol warm c'limiifrM, Mini <>!' |';uri>|..-:iii:i coining; I'l-'in 
w. ii in , Imi.f.M, are Byitematinilly .\:nnin.-.l wilh Hi.- mirm 

cope, in a largo proportion of cam fchoy will i>.- i'mm.1 |.u 

rn|.;iil| Ihr .v.l nf nil.' ol olh.r ..I' fill,, sprrl.-. ,,| inillllo.lr 

worms -AtCM* Inmhnc.n.l.s, 7V/W/n/;-/.s t,;,-lnnni ( '/'. ,l,s f ;in. 
.-Hid .lukiilostomiini ,lnn,l,-n,ili-. 'I'hr ..vii >!' !.' taprwonn 

ad of the common thrond-worm (Oxyurii wmieulari 




'"' ' 'I l-'i.filr 

rl.iuril ; ./. Mlroi.KyloM.'H ^Inr.-niMlJi ; ft, Nrrulm Miiirri.-iiniM 

[umbrioofdtji i </, AP<-> li lunln Icoldw |unf< . 






i.-n.-ly foiiM.I ill Ml" HtnolM, IIH Miiv.r |i:iiii.-.ilr.-< il<> li"|, MM n ml.-. 

part with ihnir ova until the joint* of the former, or the <<n 1 1 . 

body of Mir l,,lt,rr. IIM.VH 1,-fl, Ylm (iliiiii>iil.nry ninitl , I. ill IIH II. r 
Mll-rr iii-iii.'i|.,i|. i lir-.l. iin-|ilii>iii'i| |..i I, lunrlly n,|., 

the bowel, those eggs habitually appear in the ftooei and con- 

Ml.lhllr .,nr.|Ulvo, .-,! rvi.ln.,, r o| |.|,r plri.rncr of M.r.r I rM|,r.-| I \ O 

piircnl.nl furniM. OrniNinniilly Mm ova of h|iut.ir uii.l inlrM 

tlllil |> ll.'I'lilrH, Hll.'h MM Kr/lltifl>MHIIIII /it /></ 1< It III , -V. 111,1 11.1, HI I , 



f,Mi-r ran r li>-lmmlli , .MM- mi 

perience the ova of the rarer par 

oil | i;m ,| , I, ill. if MM- pifirhli.,1, -i 
ll.MS.- ..I' Mir Mum riiiiiMM.Ii |,r. I, 
Wll-ll I.' - ..,. : :,, .,, I.I,,- ,,VH .,f 

.'ill. I, ..II I. I'. Illllf' I.. I'.iillli- I4|irrilll 

will l,:,v. |, Ml,- ,|im.-,,l1,v i" .irrivi 

'I li.- rni. i |.i- .il \!imiiiiilin 

MMIIM -wh.-il. 'll :i!'i. .;,!, I.-, IM l,y no MI. . 

HOH 



Miou^ii 
i All 



OVA IN F.KCKS 



SOU 



th.-H is mvo.sN.-in. hx \\a> of preparation, is to pl.ee on tho 

I > n of tt% u i poct%d f*cM-*boui tht * of 

P seed and th<n to apply tho OOT1I |taw 
it ,vor i ho slip NO as to spmul out tho u. ,,u. fairly 

uniform, and transparent laver 1 I' tho bit of laves piove loo 

oonsiatont, a littlo \v at or max bo added so as to s >fton it. If 



the stools are loose and xvatory, tlu 
up \\ith a pipette and rvmunod. It 
throopivparaliors. The mi. rosoopical 
tiist instance, ho undo xvith a low poxx 
half-inch obioctixo. Seareh must be made- in 
slide, and overv Mispieious body O&rftf U 1 1 \ sen 
; " . being usod f ni \ verx bit! 

for the identification n.it onlx'of th<< eoiinuon^ 
speeies of parasi!(> to which tlu- o\a belong. 

I'he points to be attended to in th oltj 
si.r. shape, colour, thickii.-ss. lou.i-.hv.c 

a tlu> sniface of the sholl , thopros 



ld bo t:ikru 



> or 
i mnst, in tlu> 
or. better, a 
x part U the 
nod, : high or 



xX 




it 8chUi^>"nnn It.iMiiai.u.mm ; 

.',.||, ofhlH i.in'MMi.. . 

. I 



i\ Motor.tpli.v on li.'n-i , ,.],< ,- 

ll.'X, !.:!. . f ,11 ;( .. -ill nn 



of \oliv sphotvN. of a di(Toi"oniia(0() >nibi\o. 01, m tho 

ot the t cstodos, of 111.- thii'i- pans of rnibi \ 01110 hooklott* . tb' 
exJHtonoo of .-in opcrotjluin in llu> t-aso of t'ortain t n-m.-it. '>!<:- 
.nul of the bioa.l lapeoiins ( />>.WA'i<WV;)A//(.vV Tlu> o\ a i>f tho 
same ,speies of parasite vary but slight 1\. and ate in e\(My 
in-tati, . ul diMinit,- for oorrtX : 

09* if Trichn<i-ts trishiHrti (Fig. l(S, ). Of thtt thltHJ 
eonitnon neniatod. s mentionod 7'nVAmm fri?kin 
/><HAr(N>'i'f'v m i ( v^y/<w/(MM <&H*4*Hnl<* the o\ .1 of tli, 
.IM the ino I froqnontly tnet \\ilh rii,'\ o, eur sometimes in 
enormous numbeis. .1 . man\ as M\ or eit;ht, speoimons bnii-- 
\ isible in one tieKl of :in ineh objoetivc l'lu>\ f.'im .1 i.-itliei 
stiikini; ol'|e>-t nndei tlie inieroseope l\-\ 170) l'lu-\ .-u. 
oval, uu-asuini.- .>! to .-I ,. bv '.' 1 .he end- of th<> 

lon>v axis of the oval hem", .h.-'.htix pointed .uid tipped with n 
little i-hium-v proji'etion ( >r pin?','. Their .".enei.il .ippeaiam-e 
an (lon-'.ated oval ti.-n. (he pi ,( the poles 

enlni", the handles of tho tray The\ aie 



810 INTESTINAL PARASITES [CHAP. 

dark brown in colour, sharply defined, doubly outlined, and 
contain no differentiated embryo. 

The ova of Ascaris lumbricoides (Fig. 168, f, g, and Fig. 
171) are considerably larger (60 to 75 /* by 40 to 58 /*) than 
those of trichiuris (Fig. 168, c). They are also, as a rule, 
more spherical, or rather, more broadly oval; occasionally 
they are almost barrel- shaped. Like those of trichocephalus, 
they are dark brown in colour from bile-staining, but they are 
much less sharply and smoothly defined, possessing a coarse 
thick shell which is roughened by many warty excrescences. 
The yolk contents are not always easily made out, nor, when 
made out, can any sign of embryo or segmentation be discovered. 




Fig. 170. Ovum of Trichiuris trichiura, x 280. (Photograph by Dr. J. Bell.) 

In certain instances, supposed to be unfertilized, the ova 
are smooth on the surface, the rough outer layer being almost 
or altogether absent. 

A point of practical importance to be attended to lies in 
the circumstance that the rough outer layer on the shell of the 
ovum of ascaris is very easily detached, leaving the egg with 
a sharp, smooth outline suggestive of some other species of 
parasite. To obviate this, in mounting faeces it is well to 
avoid too much gliding of the cover-glass over the slip. 

The ova of Ankylostomum duodenale (Fig. 168, b] contrast 
very markedly with both the foregoing, particularly in the 
matter of colour. Trichocephalus and ascaris ova are in- 
variably dark and bile-stained ; those of the ankylostomum 
are beautifully clear and transparent ; they measure 55 p. to 



XLV] TRICHIURIS TRICHIURA 811 

65 ft by 32 ^ to 43 /A; have a regular, somewhat elongated 
oval form, with a delicate, smooth, transparent shell, through 
which two, or four, or eight light-grey yolk segments can be 
distinctly seen. It is well to search for these ova soon after 
the f leces have been passed ; otherwise, owing to the rapidity 
with which, in favourable circumstances, development pro- 
ceeds, the embryo may have quitted the shell and the egg 
be no longer visible. 

TRICHIURIS TRICHIURA (L.) 

Synonyms. Ascaris trichiura ; Trichocephalus hominis ; 
T. dispar. 




Fig. 171. Ovum of A. lumbricoides, x 250. (Photograph by Dr. J. Bell.) 

Trichiuris trichitira, the whip-worm (Fig. 174), lives chiefly 
in the caecum. In many countries it is present in more than 
half the population. It is believed to maintain its position by 
transfixing, pin- fashion, with its long slender neck, a super- 
ficial fold of the mucous membrane. Wichmann claims to 
have shown, by serial sections of the caecum at sites where 
the parasites were fixed, that it is merely embedded in the 
mucus between the intestinal villi. According to Powell, the 
females very much prepondeiate, the proportion to males being 
as 466 to 1. Except that the practitioner should be familiar 
with the appearance of its eggs in the stool (Fig. 168, c), so 
that he may be able to distinguish them from those of ascaris, 
of ankylostomum, and of other parasites, the presence of T. 
Irichiura is of no practical moment. So far as known, it 




812 NEMATODES [CHAP. 

gives rise to no serious pathological lesion ; a fortunate cir- 
cumstance, seeing that hitherto it has been found impossible, 
with any degree of certainty, to dislodge it by anthelmintics. 

ASCABIS LUMBBICOIDES (L.) 

Though not quite so common in tropical countries 
as trichiurus, the ascaris is nevertheless very com- 
mon indeed, especially in children, who often har- 
bour these loathsome creatures in enormous numbers 
in dozens, or even in hundreds. In those coun- 
tries, at one time or another, nearly every child gets 
them ; so much so that, when doubt exists about the 
nature of some obscure affection, a dose or two of 
santonin often produces results which will seem to 
justify a diagnosis of " worms," and, for the time 

being, perhaps satisfy an 
anxious mother. 

Mode of infection. 

The reason for the great fre- 
quency of Ascaris Imnbricoides 
^-^i*' in tropical countries is probably 
Fig. 172. Ova of cestoda. twofold the warmth of the 

(After Looss.) climate, and the habits of the 

o, Taenia solium 5^, IJeniasaginata ; people with regard to the dis- 

posal of night-soil. In the 
faeces the ova exhibit no trace 

of segmentation or of differentiated embryo ; but if placed in 
water, or kept moist and in a warm place, in the course of one 
or more months longer or shorter according to temperature 
the larva is developed, and can be seen coiled up and moving 
about inside the egg-shell. If such an egg is accidentally or 
intentionally swallowed, on arrival in the stomach the shell is 
dissolved away and the contained larva is set free. In a 
month it grows into a sexually mature animal, and, if both 
sexes are present, eggs in countless numbers are soon produced 
and appear in the faeces. Desiccation of the egg at atmos- 
pheric temperature does not destroy the larva, which will 
quickly revive on becoming moistened. In many warm coun- 
tries night-soil is the favourite fertilizer, and is regularly 
collected and spread upon the fields. In this way the ova of 
ascaris obtain an opportunity of maturing, and thus, too, they 
have an opportunity of being swallowed by man. They may 
also be washed into drinking-water ; or, becoming desiccated 
on the drying up of the fields, be blown about as dust; or 
they may become attached to fruit or vegetables. In one of 
these, or in similar ways, they finally reach the human 
stomach and there attain maturity. 

This view of the life-history of A. lumbricoides was based 



XLV] ASCARIS LUMBRICOIDES 813 

on numerous experiments on man by Continental observers, 
and until recently seemed to be justified. Stewart, however, 
has shown that if ripe ascaris ova are fed to mice and certain 
other rodents, the larvae, or a proportion of them, on being 
hatched out, bore their way into the liver and lungs. In the 
latter organs they appear in about a week's time, and, if the 
dose of eggs has been a large one, may cause fatal pneumonia. 
Stewart fed ascaris-infected mouse-dung to five pigs. Two of 
the experiments proved negative ; in one pig a single female 
ascaris was found, and in the remaining two several sexually 
mature specimens. Stewart concludes that mice and rats serve 
the ascaris as intermediary host, man acquiring the infection in 




Fig. 173. Ovum of A. duodenale, x 250. (Photograph by Dr. J. Bell.) 

food contaminated by the saliva of these rodents. It may be 
so, but further evidence is required before this conclusion can 
be accepted. Stewart's experiments certainly show that the 
larval ascaris leaves the lumen of the gut, and explain the 
purpose of the beak-like organ with which its cephalic end is 
furnished. Possibly when the larva quits the ripe egg in 
man it penetrates the gut and becomes encysted there or else- 
where for a time, undergoing developmental changes in antici- 
pation of its return to the alimentary canal. 

Symptoms. In many instances the ascaris gives 
rise to no very noticeable symptom ; in other instances 
it is to be credited with a number of ill-defined 



814 



NEMATODES 



[CHAP. 



gastric and perhaps nervous troubles capricious ap- 
petite, foul breath, restless sleep, peevishness, vague 
abdominal pains, nausea, and so forth. Sometimes 
the worms get into the stomach and are vomited, 
their appearance giving rise to no inconsiderable 
alartn. They may even creep up the oasophagus 
and into the mouth, or out by the nostrils. Cases 
are on record in which they caused suffocation by 
wandering into the rima glottidis. They have been 




Fig. 174. Trichiuris trichiura. (Magnified.) 
a, Male partly embedded in the mucous membrane of the intestine ; b, female. 

known to enter the bile-ducts and give rise to jaun- 
dice ; to penetrate the intestinal wall and escape 
into the peritoneum, causing peritonitis ; or to bur- 
row into the abdominal walls and cause abscess. 
Fortunately these accidents are of rare occurrence; 
their possibility, however, should be borne in mind, 
and, apart from other obvious considerations, ought to 
make us endeavour to rid patients of these trouble- 
some guests as soon as possible. With this object in 
view, it was my practice in China to give my little 
patients, as a matter of routine, a few doses of 
santonin twice a year ; very often the precaution re- 



XLV] ASCARIS LUMBRICOIDES 815 

ceived its justification by the appearance of one or 
more ascarides in the stools. 

Adults, especially young adults, although to a 
much smaller degree than children, are liable to en- 
tertain these verminous visitors. Sometimes certain 
obscure dyspeptic symptoms in grown-up people will 
resist all treatment until three or four grains of 
santonin and a purgative have been administered. I 
had a patient once who for a long time had been 
troubled with unaccountable nausea. One day, while 
he was sitting at breakfast, the feeling of sickness 
came on with unusual intensity. He had to leave 
the table, and, after one or two retching efforts, 
brought up an Ascaris lumbricoides. After this he 
was 110 more troubled with nausea. It is well, there- 
fore, when puzzled over some obscure dyspeptic con- 
dition in tropical patients, to bear the ascaris in mind. 
If, for some reason, it is undesirable to give santonin 
unnecessarily, the stools ought first to be examined 
with the microscope. If ova (Fig. 168, f, g) are 
found, a dose or two of santonin may clear up the 
diagnosis and cure the patient ; if no ova are found, 
the drug may be withheld and the idea of ascarides 
abandoned. 

Treatment. The ascaris is readily expelled by 
a few grains of santonin. The dose is from J to 1 gr. 
for a child, 3 to 5 gr. for an adult. A good plan of 
giving the drug is to prescribe three such doses on 
successive nights, the first and the last dose to be 
followed by castor oil next morning. Patients, or 
mothers, ought to be warned about the peculiar effect 
santonin has on the urine and sometimes on the 
vision. I have only once seen any bad effect ; in 
this instance a peculiar sort of intoxication, attended 
with delirium, which did not quite pass away for 
several days, followed its exhibition. 

Lagocliilascaris minor (Leiper, 1909) was removed 
from an abscess in a native of Trinidad. This species is 
normally an intestinal parasite, and its occurrence under the 
skin of man undoubtedly indicates an abnormal infection. 
L. major (Leiper, 1909) is found in the lion in East Africa. 
The male is 5 mm. by 2 mm., the female 15 mm. in length. 
There are three cuticular lips, separated from the body by a 



816 NEMATODES [CHAP. 

cuticular ring. A narrow keel-like edge of cuticle extends 
along either side of the hody. The two spicules are solid 
chitinons rods. The medial papillae number over 24 pairs ; 
there are at least 5 pairs of postanal papillae. 

ANKYLOSTOMUM DUODENALE, Dubini, 1843 

Synonyms. Anchylostomwn duodenale ; Agchylostoma 
duodenale ; Anchylostoma duodenalis ; Strongyluts duodenalis ; 
Dochmius duodenalis ; Uncinaria duodenalis. 

Ascaris lumbricoides, though an unpleasant para- 
site, cannot be considered a dangerous one, unless 
in very exceptional circumstances. It is otherwise 
with the ankylostomum ; this, in many tropical 
countries, on account of the dangerous cachexia to 
which it gives rise, called ankylostomiasis, amounts 
to a positive curse. 

Nomenclature. The form of endemic anaemia 
with which this parasite is associated is of so marked 
a character that it has received a variety of dis- 
tinctive names. Thus, in the French West Indies 
severe ankylostomiasis is known as cachexie aqueuse ; 
sometimes as malcceur, or as mal d'estomac des negres ; 
in Colombia it is called tuntun, the sufferers being 
known as tunientos ; in Brazil it has been called 
oppilatio, opilaqao, and canqapo ; in Europe it is 
sometimes known as " miner's anaemia," or " tunnel 
disease," the latter in allusion to the notorious St. 
Gothard epidemic ; the form occurring in Egypt is 
spoken of as Egyptian chlorosis ; in Ceylon it has been 
called "beriberi," a name which has not infrequently 
caused confusion with true beriberi ; and, doubtless, 
elsewhere there are local names for this peculiar 
verminous anaemia. 

Geographical distribution. Since its dis- 
covery by Dubini, in 1838, the ankylostomum has 
been found so widely diffused that it may be said 
to occur in all tropical and sub-tropical countries. 
It occurs in Belgium, and a few years ago was found 
by Prof. Haldane to be the cause of an epidemic 
ot severe anaemia in a Cornish mine. In northern 
countries it is rare ; but it is abundantly present in 
the south of Europe, and in the tropical and sub- 
tropical regions of Asia and America ; it has been 



XLV] ANKYLOSTOMUM DUODENALE 817 

ascertained to exist in North and South Queensland, 
Australia, and in several of the islands of the Pacific. 
So prevalent is it in many parts of India that, 
according to Dobson, quite 75 per cent, of the in- 
habitants are affected. In Egypt it is found at 
nearly every post-mortem examination; and there 
the anaemia it gives rise to is one of the most com- 
mon causes for the rejection of recruits for the army. 
Thornhill regarded its ravages in Ceylon as far more 
serious than those of cholera ; this, not on account of 
the number of deaths it causes directly, but on account 
of the vast numbers affected, the chronic nature of 
the disease, and the aggregate mortality, direct, and 
especially indirect, for which it is responsible. 

The parasite (Fig. 175). The normal habitat of 
A. duodenale is the small intestine 
of man, particularly the jejunum, 
less so the duodenum, rarely the 
ileum or lower reaches of the ali- 
mentary canal ; very occasionally it 
is found in the stomach. In these 

situations it attaches itself by means J m ._Ankylostomum 
of its powerful buccal armature to duodenale (natural size), 
the mucous membrane, from the (DuUni.) 

blood of which it obtains a plentiful , Male ; b, female, 

supply of nourishment. It is sup- 
posed to shift its hold from time to time, the abandoned bite 
continuing to ooze blood for a short period. It is said to 
be very prodigal of the blood it imbibes, the red corpuscles 
passing through its alimentary canal unchanged, the plasma 
alone being utilized. 

The male and female ankylostomes present generally in 
the proportion of one of the former to three of the latter do 
not differ so much in size as is the case with many of the other 
nematodes. The male (Fig. 177) measures from 8 to 11 mm. 
in length by 0-4-0*5 mm. in breadth ; the female (Fig. 176) 
10-13 mm. in length by 1 mm. in breadth. Both sexes are 
cylindrical in form, white when they are alive, grey when 
dead, reddish brown when full of blood. In both sexes the 
posterior end is the broadest part, whence the body tapers 
forward to a narrow neck ending in a powerfully armed, 
bulging, and distinct mouth capsule (Fig. 178, B). The margin 
of this remarkable organ is furnished with four strong, claw- 
like hooks two on each side of the ventral line, and two 
conical teeth one on each side of the dorsal line. The tail of 
the female is conical, ending in a short delicate spine; the anus 
is subterminal, and the vagina opens on the ventral surface 




818 



NEMATODES 



[CHAP. 



at the beginning of the posterior third of the body. The 
tail of the male is provided with a large, umbrella-like, trilob- 

ate bursa (Fig. 178, A) 
possessing eleven ribs. 
Two long and very 
delicate spicules pro- 
ject from the cloaca, 
which opens at the 
bottom of the bursa. 
Owing to the relative 
positions of the sexual 
openings, the worms 
in conjugation look 
like the Greek 7. 

Reproduction 
and mode of infec- 
tion. The female 
an kylos tomes pro- 
duce a prodigious 
and never - ending 
stream of eggs (Fig. 
168, b), which pass 
out in the faeces. 
As already stated, 
while in the body 
of the host the de- 
velopment of the 
embryo does not 
advance very far ; 
but on leaving the 
human host it pro- 
ceeds, in suitable 
circumstances, s o 
rapidly that in one 
to two days a rhab- 
ditif orm embryo 
(0-2 mm. by 0-014 
mm.) is born. This 
minute organism 

( Fi g- 179) IS very 
active, voraciously 

devouring what or- 
ganic matter it can find and, for a week, growing 
rapidly, to 0*56 mm. by 0'024 mm. (Fig. 180). 




Fig. 176. -A. duodenate, 
female. (After Loose.) 



(After Looss.) 



XLV] ANKYLOSTOMUM DUODENALE 819 

During this time it moults twice. After the second 

moulting it passes into a torpid condition, in which 

it ceases to eat, and its growth is suspended. In 

this state it may live for weeks or months, moving 

about more or less languidly in muddy water, in 

mud, or in damp earth. Should chance so determine, 

it is finally transferred to the human alimentary 

canal, either in muddy drinking-water, or in the mud 

or dirt adhering to the hands or the food dishes of 

the agriculturist, the brick-maker, or other operative 

engaged in handling the 

soil ; or, it may be, in 

earth deliberately eaten 

by the geophagist and 

children. Arrived in 

its final host, after 

moulting again at the 

end of five weeks (Leich- 

tenstern), it acquires 

sexual characters and 

the permanent adult 

form. 

Until recently this 
was believed to be the 
only method of iufec- 
tion, but Looss has 
shown that the parasite 
may reach the intestinal 
canal by another route. 

In making some experiments with "cultures" of 
ankylostomum larvae, Looss inadvertently allowed 
the culture to come into contact with his hand. 
This was followed by redness and irritation of the 
skin of the part and, subsequently, by well-marked 
ankylostomiasis ; the sequence of events suggesting 
that the larvae in the cultures had penetrated the 
skin of his hand and so attained the bowel. On 
another occasion Looss repeated this experiment on 
a human leg, an hour before its amputation. Sec- 
tions of the skin showed the larvae in the hair- 
follicles, and some had traversed the hair papillae 
and lay in the connective tissue around the follicles. 




Fig. 178. A. duodenale. (After Looss.) 
A, Bnrsa ; B, head. 



820 



NEMATODES 



[CHAP. 



Subsequently, other experiments on dogs and men 
established the fact that the embryos of A, duodenale 
can enter the skin, and that they do so as a first 
step towards reaching the intestine. From the sub- 




Fig. 179. A. duodenale. Fig. ISO. A. duodenale, 

a, Young larva ; b, head. mature larva. 

(Partly after Loose.) 



cutaneous tissue they enter the blood-vessels and 
lymphatics, and by this channel are passively trans- 
ferred to the lungs. Here they leave the capillaries, 
enter the air vesicles, and thence along the bronchi 



XLV] ANKYLOSTOMUM DUODENALE - 821 

and trachea pass into the oesophagus, and so to the 
stomach. It has been conjectured that during this 
passage the larva acquires the power of resisting the 
action of the gastric juice. If this be so, then the 
indirect route described must be the only way by 
which the ankylostome can arrive at maturity. The 
success of feeding experiments, which hitherto has 
been regarded as proof that the parasite passed 
directly to the stomach, may be attributed to the 
passage of the larvae into the wall of the oesophagus 
while the dose of larva-laden material was being 
swallowed. 

Sambon has suggested that a proportion of the 
ankylostomum larvae pass directly, via the blood- 
stream, from skin to intestine. To test this sugges- 
tion, Fiilleborn and Schilling-Torgau in one set of 
dogs divided the oesophagus, stitching the lower divided 
end to the skin ; in another set of dogs a cannula 
was inserted into the trachea so that the bronchial 
secretion could not pass into the oesophagus. The 
dogs were then infected with A. caninum. After a 
time both sets of dogs gave evidence of small- 
intestine infections of ankylostomes. Sambon's sug- 
gestion, therefore, is to some extent well founded. 

The duration of the life of A. duodenale in the 
intestine has not been determined ; some state it in 
months, others in years (Sonsino) one to three. On 
account of liability to re-infection, this point, an 
important one as affecting prognosis, is difficult to 
determine. 

Giles holds that A. duodenale may become sexually 
mature while outside the human body and in the 
free state ; in other words, that it is heterogenetic, 
an abundant supply of food favouring non-parasitic 
multiplication. His observations, while supported by 
Ozzard, Annett, Ross, and Sandwith, are opposed by 
Looss, who points out that probably other free-living 
nematodes have been mistaken for the species in 
question ; that in fact the illustrations in Giles's report 
represent three males belonging to different species 
and characterized by an entirely different configura- 
tion of the posterior extremity. 



822 NEMATODES [CHAP. 

NECATOR AMERICANUS, Stiles, 1902 

Synonym. Uncinaria americana. 
History. In May, 1902, Stiles discovered that 
ankylostoiniasis in America was not, as a rule, due 




m n 

Male.* Female. 

Fig. 181. Necator americanus. (After Placencia.) 

to Ankylostotnum duodenale, but to a new species of 
the closely allied genus Necator, which he named 
Necator americanus. 

* Stitt has pointed out that there are not really two separate 
spicules, but that two are united together to form one terminal 
prong. 



XLV] NEGATOR AMERICANUS 823 

Oeograpliical distribution. So far as deter- 
mined, the distribution of N. americanus includes 
in America Virginia, North and South Carolina, 
Georgia, Florida, Alabama, Texas, Porto Rico, Cuba, 
and Brazil. It has been found by Looss in pygmies 
from Central Africa, and by others in India (Assam, 
Burma, Ceylon), West Africa, Rhodesia, Fiji, the 
Philippines, and elsewhere. Probably it is as widely 
diffused as A. duodenale ; and in certain localities, 
Fjii and Ceylon for example, it is the commonest 
form of ankylostomum encountered. 



30 
l 






B) 

Fig. 182. Necator americanus. Fig. 183. Necator 

A, Bursa ; B, head. americanus, head. 
(After Looss.) 



The parasite (Figs. 1813). N. americanus 
can be readily distinguished from Ankylostomum duo- 
denale ; it is a shorter and more slender worm. The 
male measures from 7 to 9 mm. in length by 0*3 to 
O35 mm. in diameter; the female, 9 to 11 mm. in 
length by 0'4 to 0'45 mm. in breadth. The buccal 
capsule is much smaller, and presents an irregular 
border ; instead of four ventral hook-like teeth, it- 
has a ventral pair of prominent semilunar plates 
similar to those of the dog hook-worm, Uncinaria 
stenocephala ; the pair of dorsal teeth is likewise 
represented by a pair of slightly developed chitinous 
plates of the same nature. The outlet of the dorsal 
head-gland, usually called dorsal rib or dorsal tooth, 
projects prominently in the oral cavity. Deep in the 



824 NEMATODES [CHAP. 

buccal capsule are one pair of dorsal and one pair of 
ventral subniedian lancets. The caudal bursa of the 
male presents a short dorso- median lobe, which often 
appears as if it were divided into two lobes. The 
dorsal ray is divided to its base, its two branches are 
prominently divergent, and their tips are bipartite 
instead of tridigitate, as in A. duodenale. The 
common base of the dorsal and dorso-lateral rays is 
very short. In the female the vulva is placed slightly 
in front of the middle of the body. The eggs (Fig. 
168, e) are larger than in ankylostomum ; they measure 
64 to 75 fj. in length by 36 to 40 p. in breadth. 

N. americanus inhabits the small intestine of 
man, and so far has not been found in any other 
part. 

The life-history of this worm has not yet been 
fully investigated; it is probably similar to that of 
A. duodenale. 

ANKYLOSTOMUM CEYLANICUM, Looss, 1911 

Synonym. Ankylostomum braziliense, Faria, 1910. 

This parasite has been found by Lane in stools of three 
prisoners in Mymensing jail in India. A. ceylanicwn is a 
parasite of the civet cat in Ceylon, but according to Leiper it 
is apparently identical with A. braziliense, a common parasite 
of dogs and cats in Brazil. It has also been found in an 
African lion born in the Calcutta Zoo. The males are 5 mm., 
the females 7 mm. long. There are two pairs of ventral 
marginal teeth. The bursa of the male has clefts dividing 
the dorsal from the lateral lobes ; the dorsal ray bifurcates, 
each branch bifurcating again. This species is probably of 
little importance as a parasite of man.' 

ANKYLOSTOMIASIS 

History. Although Griesinger had previously 
shown that Egyptian chlorosis was due to the pre- 
sence of the ankylostomum in the small intestine, 
and although similar observations had been made 
on negroes in America, it was not until the very fatal 
epidemic of anaemia among the miners in the St. 
Gothard Tunnel (in 1880) had called the attention 
of European observers to the subject, that the im- 
portance of this parasite as a pathogenic agent began 



XLV] ANKYLOSTOMIASIS 825 

to be properly apprehended. Multiplied observations 
have now shown that, although very minute, these 
blood-sucking parasites, if present in large numbers 
and for a length of time, more especially if its vic- 
tims are poorly fed, are very dangerous ones indeed. 
The constant drain of blood which their presence 
entails, the catarrh arising from the irritation caused 
by the wounds they inflict on the mucous membrane, 
the consequent impairment of nutrition, and, pos- 
sibly, the absorption of some hsemolytic toxin the 
product of the parasites give rise to a grave 
cachexia, disqualifying to a greater or lesser extent 
the subject of it for work, and, not infrequently, 
leading to a fatal issue. It is now recognized that 
many of the cases which were formerly regarded 
and diagnosed as " tropical anaemia " are cases of 
ankylostomiasis. 

It is not in every instance in which the anky- 
lostomuin is present that consequences so serious 
ensue. There may be dozens of ankylostomes in 
the intestine without any appreciable anaemia, or, 
indeed, symptoms of any description whatsoever. 
Grave symptoms are the exception. One must be 
careful, therefore, to avoid concluding that the anky- 
lostomum is the cause of every pathological condition 
with which it may chance to concur. 

On the other hand, many inhabitants of tropical 
and sub-tropical countries are in a state of chronic 
starvation. Living on coarse, bulky, and innutritious 
food, they are prone to dilatation of the stomach and 
dyspeptic troubles. In such, any additional cause of 
malnutrition, as a swarm of ankylostomes, and a daily 
though perhaps small loss of blood, may be sufficient 
to turn the scale against them. In those countries, as 
elsewhere, there are many who live just on the border- 
land between health and disease ; to such the anky- 
lostomum may prove the last straw that breaks the 
camel's back. 

It may be that in some individuals with special 
susceptibility, some toxin developed by the parasite, 
just as in certain cases of Dibothriocephalus latus 
infection, produces a special type of anaemia. 



826 ANKYLOSTOMIASIS [CHAP. 

It is evident that as a complication in typhoid, in 
kidney disease, in dysentery, in malaria, in fact in any 
chronic or exhausting disease, the importance of this 
anaemia-producing parasite cannot be ignored. 

The practitioner in the tropics, therefore, must be 
constantly on the look-out in all cases of anaemia, of 
dyspepsia, and of debilitated conditions generally, 
for the ankylostomum. He must bear in mind that 
this parasite, as will be presently pointed out, if per- 
mitted to remain in the intestine for a length of time, 
may be the cause, not only of remediable anaemia, 
but of irremediable anaemia-produced degenerations of 
various organs. On this account, also, its early recog- 
nition becomes a matter of the first importance. 

Further, ankylostomiasis is an important disease 
from the standpoint of the employer of native labour. 
The invaliding and inefficiency which it causes among 
coolies, not to mention the deaths, are of ten financially 
a serious matter to the planter and the mine-owner. 
To them, any wisely directed expense or trouble under- 
taken for the treating and controlling of this helmin- 
thiasis will be abundantly repaid by the increased 
efficiency of the labourer. 

Symptoms. The essential symptoms of ankylos- 
tomiasis are those of a progressive anaemia ; an anaemia 
which is generally associated with dyspeptic trouble, 
but which, in uncomplicated cases, is not associated 
with wasting. If the progress of a case be unchecked, 
serous effusions in different organs and fatty degenera- 
tion of the heart ensue, and death may occur from 
syncope or from intercurrent complication. 

One of the earliest symptoms of an extensive 
ankylostomum invasion is pain or uneasiness in the 
epigastrium. This is generally increased by pressure, 
but, for the time, may be relieved by food. The 
appetite, sometimes defective, is more often ravenous, 
though its gratification is apt to give rise to dyspeptic 
trouble of various kinds, to colic, to borborygmus, 
and perhaps to diarrhoea of imperfectly digested 
food. Constipation may be present in some instances, 
irregularity of the bowels in others. The taste may 
be perverted, some patients exhibiting and persistently 



XLV] SYMPTOMS 827 

gratifying an unnatural craving for such things as 
earth, mud, lime what is called pica or geophagy. 
The stools sometimes, though rarely, have a reddish- 
brown tinge from admixture of half-digested blood. 
Sometimes they may contain small flakes of blood- 
tinged mucus. Pure blood is rarely passed ; and an 
extensive haemorrhage, unless there be concurrent 
colitis, is still more rare, although, post mortem, con- 
siderable quantities of blood may be found in the 
small intestine. Fever of an irregular, intermitting, 
or even of a subcontinued type is common. On the 
other hand, the temperature may be constantly sub- 
normal. Or these conditions may alternate. After a 
longer or shorter time, symptoms of profound anaemia 
gradually disclose themselves. The mucous surfaces 
and the skin become pallid, the face is puffy, and 
the feet and ankles are swollen. All the subjective 
symptoms of a definite anaemia now become more and 
more apparent ; there are lassitude, breathlessness, pal- 
pitations, tinnitus, vertigo, dimness of sight, mental 
apathy and depression, liability to syncope, etc. The 
circulation is irritable, and haemic bruits can be heard 
over the heart and larger blood-vessels. Ophthalmo- 
scopical examination may reveal retinal haemorrhages. 

From some of these symptoms, were it not that 
with the advancing anaemia there is no loss of weight, 
one might be led to suspect the possibility of tuber- 
culous or cancerous disease, or of Bright* s disease. 
So far from losing weight, the patient may appear quite 
plump and, though haemocytometric estimates testify 
to a slow and steady fall in the corpuscular richness of 
the blood until the lowest limit compatible with life 
is reached, there is no true poikilocytosis as in idio- 
pathic pernicious anaemia, no excessive leucocytosis 
as in leucocythaemia, and not necessarily any enlarge- 
ment of lymphatic glands, liver, or spleen. There 
is generally a marked eosinophilia. The depression 
in the haemoglobin value of the corpuscles is consider- 
ably greater than the fall in their numbers. 

The rate of progress is very different in different 
cases. In some a high degree of anaemia may be 
attained, and even a fatal issue ensue within a few 



828 ANKYLOSTOMIASIS [CHAP. 

weeks or months of the appearance of the first 
symptoms. Such rapid cases are rare ; more fre- 
quently the disease is an exceedingly chronic one, 
ebbing and flowing or slowly progressing through 
a long series of years. 

Should serious ankylostomiasis occur before pu- 
berty, the growth and development are apt to be 
delayed and stunted. 

Diagnosis. Provided its presence be suspected, 
ankylostomiasis is easily diagnosed. In tropical coun- 
tries, in patients coming from tropical countries, and 
in miners who work in very warm mines in cooler 
climates, anaemia with concurrent eosinophilia should 
always suggest a microscopical examination of the 
fseces. If the ova (Fig. 168, b, e, and Fig. 173) of 
A. duodenale or of N. americaniis are discovered,* 
and no other reason for the anaemia be made out, the 
presumption is that one of these parasites is at the 
root of the mischief; at all events, no harm is 
likely to result from treatment based on this supposi- 
tion. On the other hand, if no ova are found it 
must not be concluded that the case is not one of 
ankylostomiasis; for it sometimes happens that, in 
the later stages of the disease, symptoms will per- 
sist although the parasites which caused them in the 
first instance have disappeared spontaneously, or have 
been got rid of by treatment. Permanent degenera- 
tion of the alimentary canal, of the heart, liver, 
kidneys, and blood-forming organs, may remain, and 
even prove fatal, although the primary cause is no 

* Bass considers that by the usual microscopical examination of 
faeces quite 20 per cent, of infections with A. duodenale are missed ; 
he recommends examination of faeces as follows : "A quantity of 
faeces is well diluted with water, 1 to 10, and strained through 
gauze to get rid of coarse particles. It is then centrif uged and the 
fluid poured off, the centrifuge tube being refilled and centrifuged 
again until all the diluted faeces have been used. The precipitate 
is rewashed several times with water as long as anything can be 
washed out. Calcium chloride solution of a specific gravity of 
1050 is now added and the precipitate washed as before. This salt 
is preferable to others because of its hygroscopic properties, and 
its addition to the faeces disposes of everything having a specific 
gravity below 1050. The precipitate is now examined, and will be 
found to contain most of the eggs which were present in the whole 
amount of original faeces." 



XLV] DIAGNOSIS PATHOLOGY 829 

longer present. The history and the absence of other 
sources of anaemia are all we may have to go upon 
for diagnosis in such circumstances. 

Ankylostomiasis is sometimes confounded with 
beriberi, and vice versa. The presence of paretic and 
cardiac symptoms not accounted for by the moderate 
degree of anaemia in beriberi, and their absence in 
ankylostomiasis, suffice for diagnosis. The anaemia 
of ankylostomiasis differs from that of malaria, inas- 
much as the latter is accompanied by enlargement 
of the spleen, a sallow and perhaps pigmented com- 
plexion, an icteric tint of the sclerae, occasional attacks 
of well-marked periodic fever controlled by quinine, 
and, especially, the presence at such times of the 
malaria parasite in the blood. As an additional 
diagnostic feature, Rogers has pointed out that 
whereas in malaria the loss of haemoglobin is in 
proportion to the loss of red blood-corpuscles, in 
ankylostomiasis it is in excess of this. Of course, 
ankylostomiasis and malarial cachexia may concur, 
and often do concur, in the same individual. 

Some idea of the intensity of the infection may 
be got from an enumeration of the eggs in a given 
quantity of faeces ; according to Grassi and Parona, 
the presence of 150 to 180 eggs per c.cg. indicates an 
infection of about a thousand worms, male and female. 

Pathological anatomy and pathology. 
As already mentioned, the bodies of the victims of 
ankylostomiasis are not wasted ; on the contrary, there 
is plenty of fat in the usual situations. The appear- 
ance of plumpness is further increased by a greater 
or lesser amount of general oedema. There may be 
effusions in one or more of the serous cavities. All 
the organs are anaemic. The heart is dilated and 
flabby, its muscular tissue being in a state of pro- 
nounced fatty degeneration. The liver, also, is fatty, 
and so are the kidneys. 

If the post-mortem examination be made within 
an hour or two of death, the ankylostomes, .in 
numbers ranging from a few dozens up to many 
hundreds, will be found still attached by their 
mouths to the mucous surfaces of the lower part 



830 ANKYLOSTOMIASIS [CHAP. 

of the duodenum, of the jejunum, and, perhaps, of 
the upper part of the ileum; but if the examina- 
tion has been delayed for some hours, the parasites 
will have dropped their hold, and are then to be 
found lying in the mucus coating the inner surface 
of the bowel. Many small extravasations of blood 
some fresh, others of long standing are seen in 
the mucous membrane, a minute wound in the centre 
of each extravasation representing the point at which 
the parasite had been attached. Sometimes blood- 
filled cavities, as large as filberts, are found in the 
mucosa ; each cavity enclosing one or two worms and, 
probably, communicating by means of a small hole 
with the interior of the intestine. Old extravasations 
are indicated by punctiform pigmentations. There 
may be evidence, in the shape of vesiculations and 
thickening of the mucosa, of a greater or lesser degree 
of catarrh. Occasionally, streaks or large clots of 
blood are found in the lumen of the bowel. 

Daniels and others report that microscopical ex- 
amination of the liver and kidneys shows the presence, 
within the cells of the parenchyma, of grains of yellow 
pigment having the reactions of haematoidin ; indicat- 
ing an intravascular blood destruction such as occurs 
in pernicious anaemia and other diseases in which . ex- 
cessive haemolysis is a feature. On this account, and 
also because he finds granules of a ferrous nature in 
the liver cells, Daniels concludes that the anaemia 
in ankylostomiasis is, in a measure, the result of 
blood destruction within the vessels by some toxic 
substance produced by the parasite and absorbed 
from the bowel. These results have not been con- 
firmed by all other observers; on the contrary, the 
late Dr. Beaven Rake concluded, from careful esti- 
mates of the amount of iron in the livers of five cases 
of ankylostomiasis, that in this disease the hepatic 
iron is below the normal average, and that the 
anaemia is entirely owing to the direct abstraction of 
blood by the parasites. Further observations are 
necessary before this question can be decided. 

Treatment. Malefern. Until the introduction 
of thymol by Bozzolo in 1880, extract of male fern 



XLV] TREATMENT 831 

was the anthelmintic usually employed in ankylos- 
tomiasis. 

Thymol. Before the administration of thymol the 
patient should be put on liquid diet for a day or two, 
and have the bowels well cleared out by an aperient. 
In the morning, and following the action of the 
aperient, three or four 10- to 30-gr. doses of well- 
tritu rated thymol, in cachets, in capsules, or in 
emulsion, are given on an empty stomach at intervals 
of an hour. If the bowels do not open spontaneously 
within four or five hours of the last dose an 
aperient should be given. Usually, by this treat- 
ment many ankylostomes are expelled and may 
be found in the motions. One such course of thymol 
may suffice ; but it is well, after a week has elapsed, 
again to examine the stools microscopically, and, if it 
be found that ova are still being passed, to repeat 
the course of thymol once or oftener. 

Certain precautions have to be observed in em- 
ploying this drug. At times it gives rise to a very 
unpleasant form of intoxication vertigo, excitement 
etc., and the urine may become dark, as in carbolic- 
acid poisoning. It is advisable therefore for the 
patient, while taking the drug, to keep his bed and to 
lie down for several hours after the last dose. Thymol 
is very insoluble in water, and is consequently, in ordi- 
nary circumstances, not readily absorbed in poisonous 
quantities ; should, however, the patient, while thymol 
is present in the stomach, partake of any alcoholic 
drink, there is considerable risk of poisoning ensuing. 
Alcohol, ether, glycerin, turpentine, chloroform, and 
oils are all solvents of thymol, and must there- 
fore be avoided when this drug is being exhibited. 
Thornhill related an instance in which a fatal result 
was brought about, apparently, by neglect of the 
obvious precautions suggested by these facts. A 
man had received 30 gr. of thymol in water at 7 a.m. 
" He experienced no special symptoms after it, and 
at 9 a.m. the nurse gave him a second dose of 
30 gr. As this man was supplied with arrack as an 
extra, and as in such cases a portion of the arrack 
was usually given at 9 a.m., the nurse gave it to him 



832 ANKYLOSTOMIASIS [CHAP. 

just after administering the second dose of thymol. 
The result was that intense collapse set in almost 
at once, and, notwithstanding all efforts, the man 
died within twenty-four hours, the collapse mani- 
festly being due to the arrack dissolving the thymol, 
which was thus absorbed." Thornhill mentions two 
additional fatal cases of thymol poisoning occurring 
in his experience ; other writers have recorded similar 
fatalities. For this reason, and because it is an 
extremely unpleasant drug to take sometimes giving 
rise to severe burning sensations in the stomach, 
throat and gullet, and, not infrequently, to excite- 
ment, giddiness, fainting, and vomiting an equally 
efficient but safer drug is a desideratum. 

Without careful preparation by rest and judicious 
feeding, thymol must on no account be used in ad- 
vanced cases of ankylostomiasis or where prostration 
is extreme. It is contraindicated in gastritis, dysen- 
tery, nephritis, and in active heart disease. 

Oleum chenopodium in three or four successive 
doses of 15 drops each is reported to be as efficacious 
as thymol, less unpleasant to take, and more free of 
risk to the patient. 

Beta-naphthol given in the same way, in doses 
of 15 gr. repeated at intervals of two hours for two 
or three times, is nearly as efficacious, is cheaper, 
and much less unpleasant, and is therefore to be pro 
ferred to thymol. 

Oil of eucalyptus 30 minims, chloroform 45 
minims, castor oil 10 drachms, one half first thing 
in the morning, the other half thirty minutes later, 
is a very efficient vermifuge in ankylostomiasis, much 
less unpleasant and much less dangerous than any 
of the foregoing. It can be repeated for several 
days in succession. I have used this combination 
several times in Europeans who had on previous 
occasions taken thymol ; they preferred the eucalyp- 
tus mixture. The dose of chloroform is a large one, 
but, in my experience, it has never had any ill 
effects. A daily dose of 5 gr. of thymol, kept up 
for several weeks, has been advocated by some prac- 
titioners of experience and might be tried in those 



XLV] PKOPHYLAXIS 833 

cases of ankylostomiasis in which more drastic treat- 
ment is contraindicated by a condition of extreme 
debility. 

Convalescence. The dieting of convalescents from 
serious ankylostomum disease must, for a time, be 
very carefully conducted. In such, a rich, full dietary 
is to be avoided until the powers of digestion have 
become re-established; otherwise, enteritis and diar- 
rhoea may prove very troublesome and retard recovery 
perhaps prevent it altogether. Iron und arsenic 
are indicated as blood restorers. 

Prophylaxis. In devising a system of prophy- 
laxis for ankylostomiasis, the fact that it is by 
means of the faeces of the already infected that the 
parasite is spread must be kept prominently in view. 
Faecal contamination of the soil and water must 
therefore be prevented. The promiscuous deposition 
of faeces about huts, villages, and fields must be 
interdicted. Abundant and easily accessible privy 
accommodation must be provided in coolie lines, in 
miners' camps, in native villages, and along the high- 
ways of traffic. In the absence of a more elaborate 
system of conservancy, pits or trenches will suffice. 
They may be filled up with earth and fresh ones 
opened from time to time. I believe the Chinese plan 
of storing night-soil for months in large, cemented, 
watertight pits is a good one. It is known that if the 
ova of the ankylostomum are kept in pure faeces the 
embryo is developed and escapes from the egg in due 
course.; but it is also known that, unless the embryo 
be supplied with a certain amount of air and earth, it 
soon dies. The thing to be avoided, therefore, is the 
mixing of fresh faeces with earth. By the Chinese 
system the embryos of the ankylostomum are killed, 
and, at the same time, a valuable fertilizer is secured 
for the agriculturist. 

It is manifest that in devising privies and sanitary 
regulations the habits of the people they are intended 
to benefit must be taken into account ; if this be 
not attended to, if native habits and prejudices are 
ignored, any system, no matter how perfect it may 
be in theory, will fail in practice. 

2B 



834 ANKYLOSTOMIASIS [CHAP. 

The water supply should also be carefully guarded 
from all possible sources of faecal contamination. 
Drinking-water, unless above suspicion, should be 
boiled or strained. So far as possible, facilities for 
removing all earth and mud from the hands and 
dishes before food is partaken of should also be pro- 
vided and their use encouraged. 

Badly contaminated ground had better be aban- 
doned. If this should be found impracticable, the soil 
should be turned over with the plough, or roasted 
with grass fires, or treated in such a manner that any 
ova or embryos it may contain are destroyed or buried. 
The systematic periodical inspection of plantation 
coolies is to be recommended. At these inspections 
all subjects of anaemia or dyspepsia should be put 
aside for more careful examination ; if the ova of 
ankylostomes are found in their faeces a judicious 
dosing with some of the drugs above mentioned may 
avert serious disease in the individual, and also pre- 
\ent him from becoming a source of danger to his 
companions. 

In view of the great danger to health that exists 
in certain countries from this and similar parasites, 
the sanitary authorities in such places ought to circu- 
late among the people, by means of printed leaflets or 
posters, a few simple directions for the prevention 
of ankylostomiasis and kindred diseases. 

Recently attempts have been made in Porto Rico 
and elsewhere to reduce or exterminate the pre- 
vailing ankylostomiasis. Special officers have been 
detailed for the purpose, whose duty it is to submit 
the entire population to systematic drugging with 
/3-naphthol. The result in the improvement of the 
general health and increase in the aggregate labour 
capacity has been most encouraging. This is an 
example of sanitary energy which we might follow 
with advantage in our own tropical possessions.* 

* An anti-hookworm as the ankylostome is called in America 
campaign is now being waged in the United States and else- 
where, financed by Mr. Rockefeller. State and county dis- 
pensaries for free examination and treatment of applicants have 
been established. The total number treated in 11 States in 1912 
was 238,755 ; the cost works out at a little over a dollar per head. 



XLV] "GROUND ITCH" 835 

ANKYLOSTOMUM DERMATITIS 

A form of dermatitis affecting the feet of coolies 
on plantations in Assam, in the West Indies, and 
probably elsewhere in the tropics, and variously known 
as ground itch, pani-ghao, water itch, water pox, 
water sores, sore feet of coolies, has been ascribed 
by Bentley to the penetration of the skin by anky 
lostomum larvae. This disease is of much economic 
importance to the planter. 

The soil in the neighbourhood of coolie lines is 
extensively contaminated by faecal matter. During 
rainy weather the ankylostomum ova in the faecal 
materials are hatched, and the larvae escape into, and 
possibly multiply in, the damp earth. The bare feet 
of the coolies are constantly soiled with this larva- 
laden earth, and in this way, in many tropical planta- 
tions, Looss's experiment is unintentionally carried 
out on a large scale. Dermatitis, vesiculation, and 
it may be pustulation or even extensive ulceration, 
and probably ankylostomiasis anaemia ensue. The 
services of the affected coolie are lost to the planter 
till the irritation or ulceration subsides and the 
anaemia is cured. 

Bentley's suggestion has been contradicted by Dal- 
getty, Stiles, and others. Looss also points out that 
the symptoms of ground itch do not tally with those 
caused by the penetration of ankylostomum larvae 
through the skin. Perhaps coolie itch may not in 
every instance be produced in this way, but un- 
doubtedly it is so in a proportion of cases. A patient 
of mine, a sugar planter, who at that time knew 
nothing about the ankylostomum, observed that an 
attack of coolie itch in any of his labourers was sure 
to be followed by anaemia. He assumed that the 
skin trouble was the cause of the anaemia, and that 
the former was produced by a micro-organism picked 
up from the soil. He made his coolies, on going out 
to their work in the morning, walk through a bucket 
of Barbados tar, and then through a heap of sand, with 
the result that coolie itch and anaemia ceased on his 
estate. 



836 NEMATODES [CHAP. 

Personal cleanliness and the use of some form of 
foot-covering during the wet season, together with the 
prophylactic measures for ankylostomiasis already 
mentioned, are the special preventive means indi- 
cated as against this disease. As regards treatment, 
antiseptic foot-baths and some soothing ointment are 
indicated. 

CESOPHAGOSTOMUM APIOSTOMUM, Willach, 1891- 
Synonym. CE. brumpti, Railliet and Henry, 1905. 
History* The occurrence in man of this para- 
sitic nematode was discovered by Brumpt, in 1902, 
at the post-mortem of a thirty-year-old Pouma 
negro on the river Omo, Africa. Six immature 
females were found within cyst-like nodules in the 
wall of the caecum and colon. Subsequently the 
same parasite was found by Leiper in natives from 
northern Nigeria. Johnson found that 4 per cent, 
of the prisoners in Zungeru jail were infected with 
the same helminth. We know already of a number of 
species of the same genus occurring in the Quadru- 
mana. CE. apiostomum has been found in the gorilla, 
in the orang-outang, in the chimpanzee, and in vari- 
ous monkeys belonging to the genera Cercopithecus, 
Cynocephalus, and Macacus ; in these, if the infection 
is severe, it gives rise to dysenteric symptoms. 

The parasite. The young females found by Brumpt 
varied in length from 8'5 to 10-2 mm. and presented a maxi- 
mum breadth of 295 to 325 p. The cuticle is transversely 
striated ; the anterior extremity exhibits the ovoid cuticular 
expansion characteristic of the genus, limited anteriorly 
oy a salient oral ring (oral vestibule), and posteriorly by a 
constriction which is especially marked on the ventral surface 
and 200 /j. distant from the oral vestibule. The posterior 
extremity of the female worm tapers gradually to a caudal 
point slightly bent dorsally. The male has a terminal bursa 
similar to that of the Ankylostomum duodenale, but differs in 
that the trunk of the dorsal ray bifurcates, some distance 
from the bursal edge, into two branches forming a horseshoe- 
shaped structure, each limb of which gives off a short lateral 
horn near its base. The oral vestibule is provided with a 
crown of twelve sharp chitinous plates directed forwards 
and inwards, and bears six papillae, two lateral and four sub- 
median. The (esophagus is club-shaped and measures 470- 
500 n in length by 150 /* in its widest diameter. Anteriorly, it 



XLV] (ESOPHAGOSTOMUM APIOSTOMUM 837 

opens into the oral capsule with three slightly recurved teeth 
about 8 fi long, which fit into three corresponding indentures of 
the posterior border of the oral capsule. Posteriorly, it pre- 
sents a three-lobed valve. The intestine rims almost in a 
straight line to the anus, which opens at 170-200 /x, from the 
posterior extremity. The vulva is placed anteriorly to the 
anus at 350-475 p. from the caudal end. Neither anus nor 
vulva is marked by any prominence of the body wall. 

The ova of (E. apiostomum, like those of other parasites 
belonging to this genus or to the closely allied genus Scleros- 
toma, probably hatch in water, and by this medium reach a 
fresh host, penetrating either through the oesophagus or the 
skin. They finally settle beneath the intestinal mucosa, 
usually between the ileo-caecal valve and the anus, and here 
grow considerably in size, feeding on the blood of the host. 
Having practically reached the adult stage, they leave their 
cysts for the purpose of copulation and oviposition, and they 
and their eggs are expelled with the faeces. 

Life-history and pathogenesis. The allied 
species, (E. columbianum, which, according to Curtice, is 
frequent in adult sheep in the south of the United States and 
is more particularly observed in the autumn and winter, does 
not appear to cause any serious trouble except when present in 
great numbers. The parasite may be found in its adult state 
within the lumen of the caecum or colon, but it is found more 
frequently in the larval stage lodged beneath the mucous 
membrane in cysts varying in size from that of a pin's head to 
that of a hazel-nut, each cyst containing a coiled-up worm. 
The species peculiar to apes and monkeys are likewise found 
during their larval stage within small ha5morrhagic cysts 
beneath the mucosa of the caecum and large intestine. The 
parasites are blood-suckers ; their intestines are crammed with 
erythrocytes. The larger cysts usually present a small per- 
foration at their summit ; through this the worm protrudes 
and escapes. (E. dentatum, which inhabits the pig, the wild 
boar, and the white-lipped peccary (Dicotyks labiatus), is found 
not only in the caecum and colon, but also farther up in the 
small intestine, and von Lin stow found it within the liver. 
According to Railliet, the eggs of this species hatch in water 
within three or four days, the liberated embryo measuring 
200-250 ju. 

TRIODONTOPHORUS DEMINUTUS, Railliet and Henry, 
1905 

This sclerostome (Fig. 184) is an intestinal parasite of 
monkeys inhabiting the large intestine. It has several times 
been found in natives, post mortem, by Turner in the Transvaal 
and by Stannus in ISfyasaland. The worms are about the 
size and shape of a female ankylostome. The male is 9 - 5 mm. 
long and 0'56 mm. broad ; the female, with a tapering pos- 
terior extremity, 14-16 mm. in length and 0-73 mm. broad. 



838 



NEMATODES 



[CHAP. 



The male has a terminal bursa provided with a posterior ray 
split into two widely arching component parts, vaguely 
recalling the arrangement in cesophagostomum. The genital 
orifice of the female opens posteriorly. The vagina is short 
and opens into two uterine tubes. The mouth collar is mode- 
rately developed, and the entrance to the mouth is surrounded 
by a double series of delicate fringes composed of cuticle the 
corona radiata. The buccal capsule is a barrel-shaped chitinous 



C.R. 




1 2 

Fig. 184. Triodontophorus deminutus, female. (After Leiper.) 
1, Auterior extremity ; 2, posterior extremity. C.R., corona radiata ; B.C., buccal 
cavity; Ch.P., Glutinous plates; N., nerve ring; CEs., oesophagus ; Ch.I., 
chyle intest. ; Ut., uterus; Vag., vagina; V., vaginal opening; R., rectum ; 
A., anus. 

structure ; posteriorly it comes into contact with the oesophagus. 
The oesophagus is stout and muscular and triradiate on section. 
Each of the surfaces of the tesophagus terminates in a chitinous 
plate projecting into the buccal capsule. The cuticle is trans- 
versely striated. 

PHYSALOPTERA MORDENS., Leiper, 1907 

This appears to be a common human intestinal parasite in 
Central Africa. Leiper found it frequently in material sent 
by Dr. Turner from natives of Portuguese E. Africa. From 



XLV] STRONGYLOIDES STERCORALIS 839 

its resemblance to Ascaris lumbricoides it has been taken for 
miniature specimens of that species. The males are 50 mm., 
the females 55 mm. in length, and 2-3 mm. in breadth. The 
posterior end tapers rapidly in the female, terminating in a 
sharp point. The mouth has a cuticular cuff and two lips pro- 
vided with papillae and teeth. The bursa is bladder-shaped 
with pedunculated external papillae and unequal spicules. The 
female has two ovaries and vulva situated anteriorly. 

SYNGAMUS KINGI, Leiper, 1913 

Dr. King, of St. Lucia, forwarded some specimens of this 
parasite in copula to Leiper ; they are said to have been coughed 
up by a woman. 

Copulation is permanent, males and females being found 
adherent to one another. The male has two equal spicules and 
the caudal bursa is provided with many ribs ; the mouth is large 
and terminal, leading into a dilated buccal capsule, at the 
bottom of which there are six sharp teeth. 

Leiper was first of opinion that the parasite was near to 
S. trachealis of poultry, and an accidental occurrence in man. 
Further examination has convinced him that it is probably a 
new species more nearly related to the members of the genus 
found in mammals, but more especially to S. dispar of the puma 
(Felis concolor). 

STRONGYLOIDES STERCORALIS (Bavay, 1876) 

Synonyms* Anguillula stercoralis; A. intestinalis ; 
Leptodera stercoralis ; L. intestinalis; Rhabdonemaintestinale. 

It sometimes happens that, while searching the fasces for 
the ova of the ankylostomum, the observer is astonished by 
seeing a small, snake-like animal (Fig. 185) suddenly rush 
across the field of the microscope. On careful examination, 
this animal is found to be about 0-2 mm. or 0-3 mm. in length 
by 0-013 mm. in breadth ; to have a sharply pointed tail and a 
rounded head ; to be transparent ; and to exhibit a short 
oesophagus which terminates in a double oesophageal bulb, 
the posterior end of which is provided with three tooth- 
like segments. This is the larval form of Strongyloides 
stercoralis. 

Strongyloides stercoralis was discovered by Normand in 1876. 
For a time it was supposed to be a cause of a form of chronic 
diarrhoea very prevalent in Cochin China. Later investiga- 
tions, while clearing up the natural history of the parasite, 
have robbed it of any claim to pathological importance. It 
has been found that, though not so common, its geographical 
distribution is about coextensive with that of Ankylostomum 
duodenale, and that the physical conditions demanded for the 
non-pai-asitic stages of these two worms are about the same. 
Powell found it in India in about 15 out of every 20 cases of 
anaemia. 



840 



NEMATODES 



[CHAP. 



The mature strongyloides (Fig. 186) is a minute, slender 
worm, measuring 2-3 mm. in length by 0-06 mm. in breadth. 
No male parasite has been discovered. The adult female i 
eadily recognized by her dimensions, and by the string of five 
or six ellipsoidal eggs (0*01 mm. by 0-034 mm.) visible about 
the centre of the body. 

As Kanazy has shown, the parasite bores deeply into the 
mucous membrane of the intestine, and frequently into the 
epithelium of Lieberkiihn's glands, both for nourishment and 
oviposition. The eggs develop in the intestinal wall, so that 




m 

Fig. 185. Strongyloides stercoralis. (Partly after Looss.) 
a. Young larva from faeces ; 6, mature larva; c, head. 



before leaving the host, unless during violent purgation, the 
larva has escaped and is swimming about in the faeces, as 
already described, with great vigour, especially when these are 
fluid. Only in the event of violent purging do the ova appear 
in the stools. Such ova (Fig. 168, d) are readily recognized 
by the way in which they are strung together, end to end, 
inside a delicate tube. On leaving the host, unless they have 
access to some non-putrefying fluid, the larvae soon die ; it is 
necessary, therefore, if we would follow their further develop- 
ment, to mix the faeces with water. If this mixture be kept 
at a low temperature the young rhabditiform larva develops 
into a filariform larva which, on reaching its host, assumes 
the mature parasitic form already alluded to. If, on the 



XLV] STRONGYLOIDES STERCORALIS 841 

contrary, the cultivating medium be kept at a higher 
temperature, the larvae develop into male (07 mm.) and 
female (I'O mm.) rhabditic forms which, in time, produce in 
their turn filariform larvas, similar to those obtained directly 
from the embryo in cold climates, and capable, on being 
swallowed by man, of developing into mature Strongyloides 
stereo t'alis. 

This parasite must undoubtedly produce considerable irrita- 
tion of the bowel, but its pathogenic role has not been definitely 
ascertained. It is usually present in large numbers, and has 
been found occasionally coiled up in the intestinal follicles. 




Fig. 186. Strongyloides stercoralis, female. (After Looss.) 

The larvaa may pierce into the lacteals, and have been found 
in the blood. Van Durme has shown that, like the larvae of 
Ankylostomum duodenale, the filariform larvae of Strongyloides 
may penetrate through the skin.* Hitherto the use of 
anthelmintics has not proved effectual in procuring their 
expulsion. Sonsino recommends the prolonged exhibition of 
liquor ferri perchloridi in combination with small doses of 
thymol. 

The prophylaxis for Strongyloides is the same as that 
recommended for Ankylostomum duodenale. 

* These experiments have recently been confirmed by Fiillebprn, 
who found larvae in the tracheal secretion of the tracheotomized 
and artificially infected dog. 

2B* 



842 NEMATODES [CHAP. 

TRICHOSTRONGYLUS SUBTILIS (Looss, 1895) 

Synonym. Trichostrongylus instabilis (Railliet, 1893). 

Looss has described a very delicate nematode (Figs. 187-9) 
frequently encountered in Egyptian fellahs, and since found by 




Fig. 187. Trichostrongylus subtilis, male. 

Ijima in Japan. Its habitat is the upper part of the small 
intestine. The male, which is provided with two spicules, is 





Fig. 188. T. subtilis, female. 



Fig. 189. T. subtilis, bursa. 
(After Looss.) 



from 4 to 5 mm. in length by 0'07 mm. in breadth ; the female 
is slightly larger and is much more abundant than the male. 
The eggs (Fig. 168, a\ are oval, thin-shelled, with an unseg- 



XLV] GNATHOSTOMUM SPINIGERUM 843 

mented vitellus, and measure 63 /t by 41 p. This parasite does 
not occur in large numbers ; and, as its mouth is unarmed and 
its dimensions are exceedingly minute, it does not appear 
calculated to give rise to any particular symptoms. 

GNATHOSTOMUM SPINIGERUM (Owen, 1838) 

Synonyms. Cheiracanthus siamensis ; Strong ylus 
siamense (Levinsen, 1839). 

History. Gnathostomum spinigcrum was discovered by 
Deuntzer in Bangkok (Siam), and described by Levinsen, who 
proposed to call it Cheiracanthus siamensis. 

Geographical distribution. So far it has been 
seen in Siam only. It was met with in three patients, one of 
whom had five or six of these worms. 

The parasite. Only one female specimen was pre- 
served and forwarded to Levinsen (Fig. 190). 
It measured 9 mm. in length by 1 mm. in 
breadth. The cephalic extremity, slightly 
narrower than the rest of the body, had the 
appearance of a rostellum surmounted by 
two lips and was surrounded by eight rows 
of booklets. The posterior extremity ter- 
minated in a three-lobed prominence, at the 
base of which the anus opened. The anterior 
third of the body was beset with tridentate 
spines, followed by scattered simple spines, 
which gradually became smaller and then 
disappeared entirely. The vulva opened a 
little behind the middle of the body. Sub- Fig. I90.-Gnathos- 
sequently, Leiper described the male it tomumspimgeruin. 
measured 10-5 mm. by 0'6 mm. It had two (After 
large fleshy lips ; two unequal spicules ; two 
preanal and two postanal papillae. Leiper considers its normal 
host in Siam to be the cat. 

Life-history and pathogenesis. We know 
nothing of the life-history of Gnathostomum spinigerum. Other 
species of the genus live in the stomach of various vertebrates. 
Before attaining maturity they are found in cysts beneath 
the mucosa. G. spinigerum is found in various kinds of wild 
cats (Felis cattis, F. concolor, F. tigris}. Lewis found it in the 
pariah dogs of Calcutta. G> hispidum lives in the stomach of 
hogs. Fedschenko found it in a Turkestan wild hog and in a 
Hungarian domestic hog. Csokor found it in hogs slaughtered 
at Vienna, Strose in Bakony's hogs, and Collin in cattle in 
Germany. In Vienna butchers have long known this parasite 
under the name of " three-coloured worm." The parasite 
described by Levinsen came from a young Siamese woman, 
who presented a livid and painful tumefaction of the breast 
with slight fever. Rounded nodules the size of beans appeared 
at the seat of inflammation, beneath the skin. From one of 
these nodules the gnathostomum protruded. 




844 



INTESTINAL PAKASITES 



[CHAP. 



2. TREMATODES 
WATSONIUS WATSONI (Conyngham, 1904) 

SyllOliyillS* A.mphistomum watsoni ; Cladorchis ivatsoni ; 
Pa ramphistomum watsoni. 

History. This parasite was found in 1904 by 
Watson in the duodenum and upper part of the 
jejunum of a negro patient from German West Africa 
who died of starvation and diarrhoea. The stools were 

numerous, watery, 

A rn- * B and of a bilious colour, 

'"' and contained many 

yellow, translucent, 
oval trematodes. At 
the post-mortem the 
jejunum was found 
to be full of these 
trematodes, some of 
them alive and still 
adherent. Themucosa 
showed no haemor- 
rhages, but appeared 
to be slightly conges- 
ted. The other parts 
of the bowel, as also 
the other organs, were 
normal. The parasite 
is said to occur in monkeys and to be common in 
natives near Lake Tchad. 

The parasite. W. watsoni (Fig. 191) is of a reddish- 
brown colour and measures 8 to 10 mm. in length by 4 to 5 mm. 
in breadth ; it is oval in shape. The oral sucker is small ; the 
ventral sucker or acetabulum large and at the posterior 
extremity of the body. The genital pore opens at the anterior 
end of the ventral surface on a level with the bifurcation of 
the intestine. The ova measure 125 ju in length by 75 /* in 
breadth. 

Life-history. We know nothing of the life-history of 
this parasite, but probably it is similar to that of P. cervi, the 
conical fluke of cattle and sheep, which was thoroughly 
worked out by Looss in 1896. The eggs of P. cervi contain a 
ciliated embryo (miracidium) which escapes from the eggshell 
under the stimulus of light and moisture. Swimming about 
in the water, which it must necessarily reach for further 




Fig. 191. Watsonius watsoni. 

(After Shipley.) 
A, Magnified ; B, natural size. 



XLV] GASTRODISCOIDES HOMINIS 845 

development, it penetrates into the visceral cavity of certain 
snails (Physa alexandrina, P. micropleitra) , and in these 
develops and multiplies parthenogenically. In about two 
months, having attained the cercaria stage, the cercariae escape 
from the snail, swim around in the water, and finally encyst 
themselves on plants or other objects. The final host (cattle, 
etc.) is attained either through drinking-water or pasture. 

Geographical distribution. Information is 
as yet very scanty, but there is reason to believe that 
W. watsoni is by no means uncommon in certain parts 
of northern Nigeria, where it gives rise to serious 
intestinal trouble, especially in children. A patient 
who had lived there for some time told me that on 
one occasion, being seized with violent diarrhoea, he 
passed about a pint of material containing innumerable 
moving bodies which he described as resembling the 
heads of tadpoles, doubtless specimens of W. watsoni. 

Treatment. As for adult tapeworms. 

GASTRODISCOIDES HOMINIS (Lewis and 
McConnell, 1876) 

Synonyms. Amphistomum hominis ; Gastrodiscus horn- 
inis (Lewis and McConnell, 1876). 

History. This parasite was described by Lewis 
and McConnell in 1876 from two sets of specimens, 
the first procured from O'Brien 
and Curran, who found them in 
the vicinity of the ileo-colic valve 
at the post-mortem of an As- 
samese in Gowhatty; the second 
belonging to the Pathological Fig- 192. Gastrodis- 

-\ir .LI. f^ i -RT j- i comes hominis. 

Museum ot the Calcutta Medical (x a t. size.) 

College, and presented in 1857 by 
Simpson, who found them in the caecum and ascend- 
ing colon of an Indian who died from cholera in the 
Tirhoot jail hospital. G. hominis is now found to be 
a much more common parasite of man than was 
formerly supposed. A study of serial sections has 
convinced Leiper of the necessity of removing it from 
the genus Gastrodiscus on the following grounds : 
(1) the presence of a large imminent genital papilla 
in place of the genital atrium of gastrodiscus ; (2) 
testes tandem ; (3) genital orifice on the neck, not on 




846 TREMATODES [CHAP. 

the ventral surface; (4) ventral aspect of the disc 
smooth and quite free from sucker-bearing papillae. 

Geographical distribution. We know little 
of the geographical distribution of G. hominis ; it is 
probably widely distributed throughout Asia, and 
appears to be rather common in India. Law and 
Wise found it in East Indian immigrants in 
British Guiana ; Mackie in seven patients in Assam, 
by one of whom two hundred worms were passed 
after treatment with thymol. The pig, apparently, is 
its normal host (Mathis and Leger). 

The parasite (Fig. 192) is of a reddish colour in 
fresh specimens, and measures 5 to 8 mm. in length by 3 to 
4 mm. in breadth. Its body is divided into an anterior rather 
slender conical portion, and a posterior flattened ventrally 
concave disc ; the oral sucker is small, ventral ; the acetabulurn 
is at the posterior border of the ventral disc. The genital pore 
opens at about the middle of the anterior portion on a level 
with the bifurcation of the intestine. The testicles are two in 
number and lobate ; the vas deferens is very sinuous. The eggs 
are oval, measure 150 fj. by 72 /i, and are operculated. The 
life-history is probably as in Paramphislomum cervi. 

Pathogenesis. G. hominis is found in the 
caecum and colon. The mucous membrane is marked 
with numerous red spots resembling leech bites. 
These spots are caused by the parasites, which, attach- 
ing themselves to the mucosa by means of their 
suckers, produce minute pimple-like elevations of the 
surface. When the parasites occur in great numbers 
they cause much irritation. 

Treatment. The same as for adult tapeworms 
and ankylostomes thymol. 

FASCIOLOPSIS BUSKI (Lankester, 1857) 

Synonyms. Distoma buski ; Dicrocaliitm buski ; D. 
rathouisi. 

History. Fasciolopsis buski was first described 
by Busk in his " Diseases of the Liver," published in 
London in 1845. Busk found this parasite in 1843 
in the duodenum of a Lascar who died at the Sea- 
men's Hospital. The pig is the normal host. 

Geographical distribution. /'. buski is an 
Asiatic trematode ; it has been found in India, Assam, the 
Straits Settlements, Sumatra, and China. 



XLV] 



FASCIOLOPSIS BUSKI 



847 



The parasite (Fig. 193) is the largest trematode 
inhabiting man. It measures 24 to 40 mm. or more (75 mm. 
according to Busk) in length by 12 to 14 mm. in breadth. In 
shape it is an elongated oval, rather narrower anteriorly than 
posteriorly, with flat ventral surface, slightly convex dorsal 
surface, and very thin margins. It has a smooth skin without 
spines. The oral sucker (0-5 mm. in diameter) is subterminal and 
placed on the ventral surface. The ventral sucker is larger (1-6 
to 2 mm. in diameter) and placed close to the oral. It is pro- 
longed into a kind of sac (2-8 mm. 
long) directly under the ventral 
surface. The pharynx (0'7 mm. S\ ftps 

long) is preceded by a prepharynx "" 

(0'28 mm. long) ; the oesophagus 
is very short and the intestinal 
caeca are simple and present two 
characteristic curves towards the 
middle line, one at about the middle 
of the body, the other between the 
testes. The genital pore opens on 
the median line immediately an- 
terior to the ventral sucker. The 
testes are in the posterior half of 
the body, one behind the other; 
both are branched dichotomously. 
The ovary is branched, and is 
placed about the middle of the 
body on the right of the median 
line. The vitellaria are well de- 
veloped, and extend from the vent- 
ral sucker to the caudal end of 
the body, where they meet. The 
acini are very small. The eggs 
(Figs. 169, g, and 194) are numerous 
and measure 120 to 130 /i in length 
by 77 to 80 /* in breadth; they are closed, I find, by a very 
delicate operculum. 

Pathogenesis and treatment. This para- 
site inhabits the upper part of the small intestine. 
In two recorded instances (Cobbold) it was associated 
with attacks of recurring diarrhoea and other signs of 
intestinal irritation. The best treatment is thymol 
or eucalyptus oil, given as in ankylostomiasis. 

FASCIOLOPSIS RATHOUISI (Poirier, 1887) 

Under the name of F. rfltfAom a fluke was described by 
Poirier in 1887. The validity of this species has given rise to 
a good deal of discussion. Odhner, who has examined the type 
specimen, believes the so-called distinctive features are solely 
due to error in the interpretation of serial sections of F. 




Fig. 193. Fasciolopsis buski 
(After Odhner.) 



848 TKEMATODES [CHAP. 

DiCROCjELiUM LANCEATUM (Stiles and Hassall, 1896) 

Synonym. Fasciola lanceolata. 

History. D. lanceatum was found by Buchholz in the 
gall-bladder of man in Germany, and has since been noted 
in Egypt and Italy. It is found commonly in bile-ducts of 
animals, especially herbivora, in Europe, Africa, and America. 

The parasite. -D. lanceatum is a small fluke 8-10 mm. 
in length by T5-2-51 mm. in breadth. It is attenuated an- 
teriorly, and the widest point is just posterior to the yolk- 
glands. The intestine bifurcates just in front of the genital 
pore. The testes lie behind the ventral sucker. The ovary 




Fig. 194. Ovum of Fasciolopsis buski, x 250. (Photograph by Dr. J, Bell.) 

lies behind the posterior testis ; there are a receptaculum 
seminis and a Laurer's canal. The yolk glands lie in the 
lateral portion of the middle fifth of the body. The eggs are 
thick-shelled, yellowish-brown in colour, and measure 38-45 /j. 
by 22-30 p. Nothing is known of the life-history of the 
parasite. 

HETEROPHYES HETEROPHYES (Bilh. v. Sieb., 1852) 

Synonyms. Distomum heterophyes ; Dicroceelium hete- 
rophyes ; Distoma heterophyes ; Heterophyes cegyptiaca ; Meso- 
gonimus heterophyes ; Cccnogonimus heterophyes ; Cotylogommus 
heterophyes. 

History* Heterophyes heterophyes was discovered in 1851, 
in CJairo, by Bilharz at the post-mortem of a child. 



XLV] HETEROPHYES HETEROPHYES 849 

Geographical distribution. It has been re- 
ported from Egypt, China, and Japan, and probably has a 
wide distribution. 

Zoological distribution. Looss has found it in 
Egypt in the dog (Canis familiar is], in the cat (Felis domestica), 
in a fox (Canis niloticus ?), and in a kite (Milvus parasiticus). 
Janson reports it from the intestine of the dog in Japan, and 
Yokagawa in Formosa. 

The parasite. H. heterophyes (Fig. 195) is the 
smallest trematode inhabiting man, excepting Yokagawa 
yokagawa. It measures 1 to 1 '7 mm. in length oy 0'3 to 0*7 mm. 
in breadth. It has an oval, elongate shape and a reddish 
colour. The neck is not sharply denned from the body, 
and may be greatly out- 
stretched. The oral sucker 
(0'09 mm. in diameter) is 
subterminal and about one- 
third the size of the ventral 
sucker (0'23 mm.), which is 
placed at about the middle 
of the body. The cuticle is 
thickly beset with quadrate 
scales, 5 to 6 /u. long by 4 ^ 
broad. The prepharynx is 
short (80 [JL in length) ; the 
pharynx measures 50 to 70 y, 
in length by 40 to 50 p. in 
diameter. The oesophagus 
is about three times as long. 
The intestinal caeca extend 
to the posterior extremity, 
where they converge and 
terminate close to the ex- 
cretory bladder. The lateral 




r.5 



ex.p 

Fig. 195. Heterophyes heterophyes. 
A, Greatly magnified; u, natural size. 



ends of the vitellaria extend 
beyond the intestinal caeca. 
The genital pore opens pos- 
tero-laterally to, and in the 
immediate vicinity of, the ventral sucker ; it is surrounded 
by a muscular ring. Testicles oval, in extreme posterior end 
of body. Ovary globular, median and anterior to the testes. 
Receptaculum seminis as large as the ovary ; uterine coils not 
numerous, and extending between the ventral suckers and the 
testicles. Eggs light brown, thick-shelled, oval, 20 to 30 ,* by 
15 to 17 /*; contain a ciliated embryo when oviposited. 
(Fig. 169, c.) The life-history of the parasite is not deter- 
mined. It seems to have little pathological importance. It 
inhabits the small intestine. 

YOKAGAWA YOKAGAWA (Katsurada, 1912) 

Synonyms. Tocotrcma yokagawa, Heterophyes yoJca- 
gawa; Metagonimus yokagawai (Katsurada). 



850 TREMATODES [CHAP. 

This parasite has been found by Yokaguwa to be 
widely spread among natives of Korea, Formosa, and Japan, 
in the intestinal tract. It is believed hitherto to have escaped 
notice from the resemblance of the egg to that of Clonorchis, 
and the very small size of the adult. According to Leiper the 
parasite is common in China, in dogs, and belongs to a new 
genus, Yokagawa, characterized by absence of ventral sucker 
and the arrangement of the yolk-glands. He maintains that 
the genital sucker is highly developed but does not possess the 
circlet of hooks or " antlers " characteristic of the genus Hetero- 
phyes, which in other respects it resembles. This interpreta- 
tion is opposed to that of Yokagawa, who has observed the 
specimens in a live state and finds that this large disc represents 
a displaced ventral sucker, and further, as a result of minute 
study, on developmental as well as morphological evidence, 
finds that the genital aperture is situated as a minute slit in 
the anterior aspect of this ventral sucker. The cercarial stage 
is passed in fresh-water fish, " ayu " (Pkcoglossus altivelis), often 
eaten in the raw state by Japanese. Yokagawa has made an 
elaborate study of the final developmental phase. The cercaria) 
have a thin and hyaline appearance, and measure '14-0-16 mm. 
in length by -126-0-1 mm. in breadth. They are j found 
attached to the gills, fins, and tails of the fish, much less 
commonly in the muscles, indicating that the alimentary route 
is not the usual mode of infection of the fish. Mice and dogs 
can be infected with the cercarioe. Yokagawa has shown that 
the cercariae can withstand the action of the gastric juice, but 
that the hyaline capsule is dissolved by its action. The larva) 
thus set free develop in the duodenum ; they are said to be 
richly studded with pigment granules. Development is very 
rapid, and the adult stage is reached in seven to ten days after 
infection. T. yokagawa is only Tl mm. long by 0'42-0*7 mm. 
broad, and is covered with small spines ; in the general dis- 
position of its organs it resembles Heterophyes (Fig. 195) ; it 
is easily the smallest fluke found in man. The egg resembles 
that of C, sinensis in size, but is regularly elliptical in shape, 
dark brown in colour, and the shell membrane has a double 
contour, and measures 0-028 mm. in length by 0-016 mm. in 
breadth. Y. yokagawa is apparently an innocuous parasite in 
man, causing at most a catarrhal condition of the intestine 
canal which it inhabits. 

Thymol and naphthol are efficient anthelmintics. 

ECHINOSTOMUM iLOCANUM (Garrison, 1908) 

Synonym. Fascioletta ilocana. 

This parasite was discovered in 1907 by Garrison, who 
noticed peculiar eggs in the faeces of Philippine prisoners in 
the prison at Biliprid, in Manila, and subsequently obtained 
a small number of trematodes from the intestinal canal. 
Odhner has recently demonstrated a crown cf spines round 
the oral sucker, and therefore has transferred it to the genus 



XLV] 



CESTODES 



851 



Echinostomum. In length it is 4-6 mm. by Q'75-1'35 mm. in 
breadth. It is attenuated posteriorly. The acetabulum is 
much larger than the oral sucker. The genital pore opens 
separately a little behind the half-way point between the 
pharynx and the acetabulum. Each testis has an anterior 
and a posterior lobe. The ovary is globular. 

Nothing is known about the life-history of the parasite, 
beyond the fact that a miracidium hatches in about ten days 
after the eggs have left the host. 

ECHINOSTOMUM MALAYANUM (Leiper, 1912) 

This parasite is found in the intestines of natives in the Malay 
States, but probably is not normally parasitic in man. The 
body is 12 mm. long by 3 mm. in greatest breadth, and 1*3 mm. 
in thickness. Both ends of the 
body are rounded. There is a 
row of 43 stout spines round the 
circumoral disc ; they vary in 
size; those on the ventral are 
0'07 mm. and those on the dorsal 
surface 0'05 to 0'16 mm. in 
length. The oral sucker com- 
prises one-third of the total dia- 
meter of the circumoral disc; it 
communicates with the spher- 
oidal muscular pharynx by a 
thin-walled portion 0*175 mm. 
long. The oesophagus meas- 
ures 0'04 mm. in length, and 
bifurcates near the pharynx. 
The main gut branches are 
simple and end blindly at the 
hind end of the body. The 
ventral sucker, 0*9 by 0'75 mm. , 
is several times larger than the 
oral. The testes are tandem 
and are deeply lobed ; they are 
situated in the middle of the 
body behind the ventral sucker. 
The cirrus pouch is well de- 
veloped, and extends behind the level of the fundus. The 
ovary has a smooth surface, and lies immediately in front of 
the anterior testis, 0'85 mm. behind the ventral sucker. 

3. CESTODES 

The ordinary tapeworms, Tcenia saginata (Fig. 
196) and Tcenia solium, and their cystic forms, are 
common enough in the tropics and sub-tropics, their 
distribution being regulated by the presence or 
absence of their proper intermediary hosts the ox in 




Fig. 196. Tsenia saginata. 
(After Braun.) 

o, Cephalic end (magnified) ; 
b, mature segment (nat. size). 



852 



CESTODES 



[CHAP. 



the one case, the pig in the other and by the habits 
of the people as regards cooking and conservancy. 
JEchinococcus granulosus (= Tcenia echinococcus) of 
the dog, and its cystic form hydatids are found 
wherever the dog and the sheep are found, that is 
practically everywhere. The broad tapeworm (Diboth- 
riocephalus latus) is known to occur in Turkestan, 
in Japan (where the natives are in the habit of 
eating raw fish), in Madagascar, and among the 
natives on the shores of Lake 'Ngami, South Africa. 
Ichthyophagous habits are probably responsible for 
the occurrence of Diplogonoporus grandis, another 




Fig. 197. Taenia africana. 
(After Linstow.) 




Fig. 198. Tsenia africana. 
A, Frontal section of mature segment ; 
jB, > gravid 



large dibothriocephalid found by Ijima and Kurimoto 
in a Japanese from the province of Higen. 

The only cestodes of man which, so far as is 
known, have any claim to be regarded as more or 
less special to warm climates are T. africana, T. 
hominis, T. philippina, Hymenolepis nana, Davainea 
madagascariensis, D. asiatica, Sparganum mansoni, 
and S. proliferum. Doubtless there are other species 
which, so far, have escaped observation. 



AFRICANA (Linstow, 1900) 
History. Tcenia africana was described by Linstow in 
1900. It was found in German East Africa, in native soldiers 
stationed at Langenburg, near Lake Nyassa. 

The parasite (Figs. 197-8). T. africana differs con- 
siderably from the common unarmed tapeworm of man. Its 
strobila attains 1 '4 metres in length, and is composed of about 
600 proglottides. The scolex is quadrilateral, unarmed, very 



XLVfl 



T^NIA AFRICANA 853 



small (1-38 mm. broad by 0-47 mm. long), and is provided with 
an apical sucker (0'16 mm.) in addition to the usual four suckers 
(0'63 mm.). The neck is very short, and somewhat broader 
than the scolex. The proglottides are all broader than they 
are long. Immediately at the back of the scolex they measui-e 
0-16 mm. in length by 1'78 mm. in breadth and 0'59 mm. in 
thickness ; about the middle of the strobila they are 3 mm. 
long by 9 mm. broad and 1-20 mm. thick. The terminal and 
gravid strobilse are 7 mm. long by 12 to 15 mm. broad and 
1'35 mm. thick. The genital pores alternate irregularly, 
and are placed in the middle of the bortier of each segment. 
The testicles are very numerous and scattered throughout the 
middle layer. The vas deferens is much convoluted. The 
cirrus pouch is pyriform and thick-walled. The cirrus and 
vagina are beset with bristles directed outwards. The recepta- 
culum seminis is fusiform. The ovary 
consists of two fan-shaped wings, com- 
posed of club-shaped tubes centring to- 
wards the shell-gland ; the latter is median 
and globular. The uterus includes a median 
stem and 15 to 24 lateral, unramified 
branches, which are longer than the stem, 
and spread out like a fan. The ova are 
spherical, the embryophore 31 to 39 by 
33-8jt, with thick radially- striated shell; 
hooks of the onchosphere measure 7'8 /* 
in length. 

The cystic stage of this tapeworm is 
unknown. Linstow suggests that it may 
be found in the zebu (Bos indicus), the 
flesh of which the natives are in the habit 
of eating raw. 

T^ENIA HOMINIS (Linstow, 1902) 

History. T. hominis was described by Linstow in 1902, 
from a specimen obtained from the intestine of man in 
Aschabad, Asiatic Russia. 

Tile parasite (Fig. 199). The strobila examined by 
Linstow was immature ; it measured 70 mm. in length. The 
scolex measured 1*34 mm. in length by 2 mm. in breadth, and 
exhibited a rudimentary unarmed rostellum. At the back of 
the suckers there was a characteristic circular ridge. The 
genital organs were not developed. 

The cystic form is unknown. 




PHILIPPINA (Garrison, 1907) 
This parasite was found by Hare in the prison at Biliprid, 
Manila. It is 80-100 cm. in length. The head is cube-shaped 
with unarmed retractile rostellum and four suckers. The neck 
is segmented. The proglottides number about 800 ; the mature 
proglottides are 4-5 mm. in width by O'8-l mm. in length. 
The surface and margins extend posteriorly in an elongated 



854 CESTODES [CHAP. 

cuff-like projection over the succeeding segment. The testes 
are 130-160 /A in length and 60-80 /* in breadth; the vas 
deferens is without a vesicula seminalis. The cirrus pouch is 
absent. The genital pore is situated irregularly on the lateral 
borders. The vagina is coiled and without setie. The mature 
uterus is very compact with a median stem and numerous long, 
slender dichotomous branches. 

HYMENOLEPIS NANA (v. Siebold, 1852) 

Synonyms. -Tcenia nana ; Diplacanthus nanus ; Hy- 
menolepis murina. 

History. This minutest of the tapeworms in- 
habiting man was first found as a human parasite by 
Bilharz, in Cairo, in 1851. The following year it 
was described by von Siebold, who proposed to call 
it Tcenia nana. In 1887 Grassi identified it with 
Hymenolepis murina of the rat, and showed that it 
can dispense with an intermediary host, the larva 
penetrating into a villus of the rodent's intestine to 
become a cysticercoid, and then re-entering the canal 
to become transformed into the adult stage. 

Zoological distribution. H. nana is found 
in the brown rat (Mus decumanus), black rat (M. 
rattus}, house mouse (M. musculus), dwarf field- 
mouse (M. minutus), and garden dormouse (Eliorrvys 
guercinus). 

Geographical distribution H. nana is 

found in Egypt, Siam, Japan, the southern States of 
the American Union, Brazil, Argentine, and through- 
out Europe, but more especially in the warmer parts, 
as in Sicily, where, according to Calandruccio, 10 per 
cent, of the children are affected. 

The parasite (Fig. 201). The strobile vary in length 
from 5 to 45 mm. with the number of proglottides, which may be 
from about 100 to 200. The scolex is subglobular and measures 
139 to 480 fj. in diameter ; it is provided with a well-developed 
rostellum armed with a single crown of twenty to thirty 
booklets 14 to 18 /j. long; the suckers are globular and have a 
diameter of 80 to 150 /*. The neck is long. The proglottides 
are very short anteriorly ; farther down the chain they increase 
in size but remain broader than long. Only the hindermost 
segments may equal or even slightly exceed their breadth. 
The maximum breadth of the proglottides is from *5 to 0*9 mm. 
The genital pores open on the left margin near the anterior 
border of each segment. There are three testes in each 
segment; the vas deferens widens to form a seminal vesicle 



XLVj 



HYMENOLEPIS NANA 



within the cirrus pouch. The gravid uterus occupies nearly 
the entire segment. The eggs number from 80 to 180 in each 
proglottis ; they are oval or globular, and present two distinct 
membranes ; the outer one measures from 30 to 60 /* in diameter, 
the inner one from 16 to 34 /*. The latter exhibits at each pole 
a more or less conspicuous mammillate projection. 

Development. The development of Hymenolepis 
nana has been worked out experiment- 
ally by Grassi in the rat. The egg is 
swallowed, and after hatching enters 
a villus in the lower part of the small 
intestine (Fig. 200), where it trans- 
forms into a cercocystis.* The six- 
hooked embryo is found concysted 
from 24 to 50 hours after ingestion, 
its long axis corresponding to that of 
the villus, and the posterior end bear- 
ing the embryonal hooks directed to- 
wards the lumen of the intestine. 
Occasionally two parasites may be 
found in the same villus. In about 
40 to 70 hours after ingestion the 
scolex has appeared, and in 80 to 90 
hours after ingestion the rostellum is 




Fig. 200. Embryo of Hymenolepis nana 
in small intestine. 



Fig. 201. Hymeno- 
lepis naua 
(magnified). 



provided with booklets. Then the parasite passes into the 
lumen of the intestine, where it can be seen attached to the 
epithelium of the villus with short neck and no trace of 
segmentation. The rapidity of development varies somewhat, 
and, as a rule, various stages are found occurring simul- 
taneously in the same host. Strobilization is rapid ; the pro- 
glottidcs attain maturity in about 10 or 12 days, and about 30 
days after infection the eggs of the parasite begin to appear 
in the faeces. These never develop in the same host unless 

* The term cercocystis was introduced by Villot to designate those 
cysticercoids which are provided with caudal appendages. 



856 CESTODES [CHAP. 

reintroduced per os or through a reverse peristalsis, because, 
as in Oxyuris vermictilaris, the embryo will not hatch unless 
the egg be subjected to the action of the gastric juices. 
Young white rats proved most susceptible to the infection, 
whilst rats already harbouring the parasites were refractory. 
Grassi's observations do not entirely disprove the possible 
agency of an intermediary host as in other tapeworms, but 
they certainly show that it can be dispensed with, and indeed 
that as a rule the rat acts both as definitive and intermediary 
host. Experiments in man were not conclusive. Out of eight 
persons fed with eggs or mature segments of the parasite both 
from man and rats, only one became infected. This occurred, 
however, in a region (Catania) where many harbour this 
tapeworm. 

Patliogeiiesis. H. nana is very minute, but as 
a rule it occurs in large numbers usually hundreds, 
not infrequently thousands. When attached to the 
intestine it fixes its rostellum deeply into the lumen 
of a Lieberkiihn's follicle, thus altering and destroy- 
ing many of the epithelial cells. It is obvious, there- 
fore, that a number of these worms must give rise to 
considerable irritation and possibly favour secondary 
infection. According to Grassi, H. nana may bore 
deeply into the mucosa ; and at the post-mortem of 
a case in which 400 specimens were found in the 
ileum, Visconti and Segre noticed that the mucosa 
throughout the small intestine was tumefied, hyper- 
semic, and covered with a thick layer of greyish 
mucus, through which the worms were scattered. 
The most frequent symptoms reported by authors 
are abdominal pain, which may or may not be associ- 
ated with diarrhoea; convulsions of various sorts, 
frequently epileptiform ; headache and strabismus. 
The nervous phenomena are ascribed to the absorp- 
tion of toxic products elaborated by the parasite. 
On account of its small size this parasite is easily 
overlooked. Diagnosis is based 011 the presence of 
the characteristic ova in the faeces. Some care is 
requisite in looking for the eggs, because, owing to 
their transparency, they may escape observation. 

Treatment //. nana is readily expelled by 
male fern. If a patient harbours this parasite he 
should not be allowed to sleep in the same bed with 
another person. On prophylactic grounds, rats and 



XLV] DAVAINEA MADAGASCARIENSIS 857 

mice should be banished from the house, and all food 
Kept out of their reach. 

DAVAINEA MADAGASCARIENSIS (Davaine, 1869) 

Synonyms. Ttenia madagascariensis ; T. demerariensis. 

History. Davainea madagascariensis was first described 
by Davaine in 1869 from fragments of two strobilse without 
heads sent to him by Grenet, who discovered it at Mayotte, 
Comoro Islands, in two Creole children. In 1391 Leuckart 
described an entire specimen with scolex which was sent to 
him from Siam. But it is chiefly to 
Blanchard that we owe our knowledge of 
this parasite. 

Geographical distribution. 
The first two cases published were those 
of Grenet at Mayotte, but both came from 
abroad. One of them was an eighteen- 
months-old child who had arrived from 
the Antilles five months previously, the 
other a little two-year-old girl from 
Reunion who had landed two months 
previously. The next four cases were 
seen at Port Louis (Mauritius) by Chev- 
reau, who looked for the parasite at 
Blan chard's suggestion. All these cases 
occurred in children, two of whom were 
only 5 years old. The seventh case, 
published by Leuckart, occurred at 
Bangkok (Siam) in a three-year-old boy, 
the son of a Danish sea-captain. The 
eighth was that of Daniels, who dis- 
covered the worm in an adult native at 
Georgetown (British Guiana). A further 
specimen was described by Blanchard, 
who found it in Davaine's collection with 
the following label: "Nossi-Be (Island), November, 1873; 
passed by a little girl 3 years old." More recently, Garrison 
has described two cases in the Philippines. 

Zoological distribution. As yet D. madagascari- 
ensis has only been found in man, but the genus is widely 
distributed in mammals and birds. Amongst mammals it is 
found in rats (Mus siporanus, Mus rajah), in hares (Lepus 
sylvaticus, L. arizonce, L. melanotis), in the pangolin (Manis 
pentadactyla). Amongst birds it is found in the ostrich 
(Strut hio cainelus), the common rhea (Rhea americana), the emu 
(Dromceus novae kollandia), the little egret (Ardea garetta), 
the grey parrot (Psittacus erithacus), and in fowls, pigeons, 
turkeys, pheasants, partridges, grouse, woodpeckers, black- 
birds, starlings, and quails. 

The parasite (Fig. 202). The strobila attains 25 to 




E 

Fig. 202. Davaine 

madagascariensis. 

(After Blanchard.) 
A, Head (magnified) ; 
, parasite (nat. size). 



858 



CESTODES 



[CHAP. 



30 cm. in length by T4 mm. in breadth, and is composed of 
500 to 600 proglottides. The scolex is provided with four 
large round suckers and a retractile rostellum surrounded by 
live concentric rings of booklets, about 110 in all, 18 /j. long. 
The rostellum when invaginated forms a kind of pouch which 
gives it the appearance of an apical sucker. In a recent 
communication Blanchard states that not only is the rostellum 
armed, but the suckers also are provided with booklets. The 
neck is very wide, thick, depressed antero -posteriorly and 
furrowed laterally. The proximal segments are broader than 
long, the distal longer than broad (2 by 1*4 mm.). The last 
100 proglottides are gravid and form one-half the length of 
the entire strobila. They resemble apple-seeds in shape. The 
genital pores are unilateral and open near the proximal corner 
of each segment. The cirrus pouch is fusiform, the ductus 
ejaculatorius very long and sinuous, the 
testicles over 50 in number. The recep- 
taculum seminis is unusually long and 
broad ; it extends to the middle of the 
segment and communicates with the ovi- 
duct. The uterus is composed of a number 
of tubes rolled up on each side into an 
almost spherical coil. When filled with 
ova the windings of the uterus unroll and 
extend throughout the proglottis ; they 
then lose their walls, so that the eggs 
come to lie free in the parenchyma. The 
eggs then become surrounded, singly or 
in small groups, by parenchymatous cells 
forming egg- balls, of which from 300 to 
400 may be present in each segment. 
The globular onchosphere ( 8 p. to 15 /j.) is 

surrounded by two perfectly transparent 
i '. 203. Davainea , -., ,, / r. J j , j 

Ssiatica, sagittal sec- shells, the outer one bearing two pointed 

projections. 

The cystic stage is unknown. Blanch- 

ard suggests that it might be found 

in cockroaches (Periplaneta orientalis, P. 
americana, etc.). He points out that the parasite has a wide 
distribution within the tropics, and that cases of infection 
have occurred in islands, in seaports, and on board ship. The 
cockroach is cosmopolitan in distribution, it infests ships 
and contaminates food. Other tapeworms of the genus 
Davainea are known to spend their larval stage in insects 
and molluscs. According to Grassi and Eevelli, some of 
these tapeworms as, for instance, D. proglottina of fowls 
may dispense with an intermediary invertebrate host and 
spend both their larval and adult stages within the body of 
the same host. 

Piltliogciiesis. We know nothing of the patho- 
genesis of this form of taeniasis. The parasite has been found 
almost exclusively in young children. 




tion of gravid 
ment. (After 



seg- 
Lin- 



XLV] INTESTINAL MYIASIS 859 

DAVAINEA ASIATIC A (Linstow, 1901) 

Synonym. Tania aslatica. 

History. Davainea asiatica was described by Linstow 
in 1901, from a specimen in the Zoological Museum of the 
Imperial Academy of Science in St. Petersburg. It was passed 
by a man in Aschabad (Asiatic Russia, near the northern 
frontier of Persia), and preserved by Anger. 

The parasite (Fig. 203). The specimen examined 
by Linstow measures 29'S cm. in length, and is composed of 
750 segments. The scolex is missing. The proglottides are 
all broader than long, measuring O'lG mm. in width at the 
proximal end, and 1 '78 mm. at the distal end. The posterior 
margin of each segment extends over the anterior margin of 
the next following segment. The genital pores are unilateral 
and open in the proximal third of each proglottis. The 
testicles (35 to 44 /j. in diameter) are arranged in a ventral 
and dorsal layer of about eight rows each. The vas deferens 
extends in convolutions about one-third across the segment ; 
the cirrus pouch is pyriform; the ovary extends across the 
segment between the ventral canals. The vagina forms a large 
fusiform receptaculum seminis. The uterus breaks up into 60 
to 70 egg-balls in each segment. Mature eggs were not 
observed. 

The cystic form is unknown. 

INTESTINAL MYIASIS 

A residence in the alimentary canal of some 
vertebrate animal is a regular feature in the life- 
history of many dipterous insects. The ova of the 
insect are either licked from the skin, or swallowed 
in the food on which they had been deposited. In 
this way they get transferred to the stomach, where, 
after a time, the larvae are hatched out and under- 
go development. In due course they appear in the 
faeces. Man is not infrequently victimized in this 
way, especially in tropical countries. Sometimes, 
until a correct diagnosis is arrived at, not a little 
alarm is caused by the appearance of these creatures 
in the stools. They are easily recognized. The 
ringed, cylindrical body, from in. to 1 in. in length 
according to species, broad at one end, tapering at 
the other, and usually beset with little spines or 
hairs, is sufficiently diagnostic. (Fig. 204.) 

Already we know over twenty species of diptera 
whose larvae have been found in or expelled from the 



860 1 



INTESTINAL MYIASIS 



human intestinal canal. In Europe the majority of 
cases of intestinal myiasis, a not infrequent occur- 
rence, are caused by Fannia canicularis (a fly closely 
resembling the common house-fly and erroneously 
considered a young form of the latter on account of 
its smaller size), and the closely related F. scalaris. 
Austen believes that intestinal myiasis, due to the 
larvae of these flies, is probably to be traced to 
the parent flies having oviposited on the anus 
when the patient has been using some country privy 
where such insects are common. 

A dose of castor oil will probably suffice to expel 
any of these creatures that may not have been passed 
spontaneously. 

A rational prophylaxis would consist in the 
covering up of food after it has been cooked, in order 
to prevent the access of flies. 

Instances in which the larvae have been dis- 
charged per urethram have also been met with, 
though more rarely. 




ffi 

Fig. 204. Larva of Calliphora vomitoria. 



Section VI. SKIN DISEASES 

CHAPTER XLVI 

1. NON-SPECIFIC SKIN DISEASES 

PRICKLY HEAT 

Prickly heat, or, as it is sometimes called, lichen 
tropicus, is probably a form of miliaria (not of lichen) 
connected with the excessive sweating incident to 
the heat of tropical climates. According to Pollitzer, 
the mechanism of its production depends on the 
non-cornification of the cells of the stratum corneum, 
the individual cells of which, in consequence of their 
being sodden by constant perspiration, swell and so 
obstruct the orifices of the sweat-glands, thereby lead- 
ing to accumulation of sweat in the ducts. Pearse 
regards the disease as an acute distension of the seba- 
ceous glands by their own secretion ; the glands, he 
holds, are over-stimulated in order to supply an ade- 
quate amount of sebum to the skin, so as to make up 
for the loss of that material washed away by inordinate 
sweating. Durham regards prickly heat as an infec- 
tive disease produced by a minute and very active 
amoeba, readily found in the fluid of the vesicles 
provided search is made before the contents become 
turbid. 

Nearly every European in the tropics suffers from 
prickly heat, particularly during the earlier years of 
residence. Some never seem to become acclimatized 
in this respect, but continue year after year to exhibit 
their crop of prickly heat lesions when the hot season 
comes round. 

Though sufficiently annoying in the robust and 
healthy, in them prickly heat is not a grave affair. It 
is otherwise in the case of the invalid, of delicate sickly 
861 



862 DISEASES OF THE SKIN [CHAP. 

children, of hysterical and, especially, of parturient 
women; to these it may prove, by interfering with 
sleep and provoking restlessness, a very serious matter. 
Prickly heat is also a common though indirect cause 
of boils ; for the breaches of surface, following on 
the scratching it induces, afford many opportunities 
for the invasion of the micro-organisms of furun- 
cular disease. 

Prickly heat consists of a miliary-like eruption, 
generally most profuse on those parts of the body, as 
around the waist, which are closely covered with 
clothing ; but it also occurs on the backs of the hands, 
arms, legs, forehead, occasionally on the face, the 
scalp, in fact on any part of the surface of the body 
except the palms and soles. The minute, shining, 
glass-like vesicles, and the numerous, closely set and 
slightly inflamed papules, give the skin the feeling as 
if thickly sprinkled with grains of sand. The eruption 
may keep out for months on end, becoming better or 
worse according to circumstances. The pricking and 
itching are often exceedingly distressing. Anything 
leading to perspiration immediately provokes an out- 
burst of this almost intolerable itching nothing 
more certainly than a cup of hot tea or a plate of hot 
soup. Long drinks, exposure to the hot sun, close 
rooms, warm clothing, all aggravate the distress. 
Sometimes the little vesicles may pustulate, doubtless 
from micrococcus infection. So soon as the weather 
becomes cool the eruption and the irritation quickly 
subside. 

Treatment. Manifestly the most important 
thing is the avoidance of all causes of perspiration 
particularly the copious consumption of fluids, 
especially hot fluids moderation in exercise, avoiding 
sea bathing, close rooms, warm clothing, and so forth. 
Soap should not be used in the bath. The sleeping- 
mattress and pillow should be covered with a finely 
woven grass mat, and the bed provided with what 
is known in the East as a " Dutch-wife " that is, a 
hollow cylinder, 4 ft. by 8 or 10 in., of open rattan' 
work, over which the arms and legs can be thrown, 
and unnecessary apposition of sweating surfaces so 



XLVI] PKICKLY HEAT 863 

avoided. A punkah at night is a great comfort. 
Many things have been recommended as preventives ; 
for example, rubbing the body over after the bath 
with the juice of a lemon, Jeyes' fluid or bran in the 
bath, etc. Every bath-room in the tropics should be 
provided with some mildly astringent and antiseptic 
dusting powder. A very good one consists of equal 
parts of boric acid, oxide of zinc, and starch. This 
should be freely applied, after careful drying of the 
skin, particularly to the axillae, crutch, under the 
mammae in women, and between the folds of skin in 
fat children and adults. A simple precaution of this 
sort saves much suffering both from prickly heat and 
epiphytic skin disease. 

Durham recommends painting the patches with 
weak iodine or, better, rubbing in solution of cor- 
rosive sublimate, 1 in 500 to 1 in 1,000 : this he 
found very efficacious, curing the disease with cer- 
tainty after one or two applications. He suggests 
the use of some form of obstetric soap as being less 
liable to lead, through inadvertence, to accidental 
poisoning. 

Castellani advises the frequent application of a 
salicylic acid (51) and spirit (^viii) lotion. Pearse 
strongly recommends the inunction of a mixture of 
almond oil and lanolin in the proportion of 8 to 1, 
and scented according to fancy. St. George Gray 
finds thin flannel a better wear than cotton or linen 
as a preventive of prickly heat. Sometimes the 
following powder, gently rubbed in for five or ten 
minutes with a damp sponge, cures bad patches of 
prickly heat : Sublimed sulphur, 80 parts ; magnesia, 
15 parts ; oxide of zinc, 5 parts. Lotions of calamine, 
with or without hydrocyanic acid, or of carbolic acid, 
relieve the itching temporarily. 

2. BACTERIAL SKIN DISEASES 
TROPICAL SLOUGHING PHAGEDJENA 

Definition. A rapidly spreading but, as a rule, 
after a time, spontaneously arrested gangrene of the 
skin and subjacent tissues, resulting in the formation 



864: DISEASES OF THE SKIN [CHAP. 

of a large sloughing sore. Though occasionally fatal, 
these sores almost always, under favourable conditions, 
granulate and cicatrize, or become chronic ulcers. 

Geographical distribution. - - Sloughing 
phagedaena is common in most tropical countries, 
particularly in those with a hot, damp climate. 
These sores are often named after those districts 
in which they are specially prevalent ; thus we hear 
of Mozambique ulcer, Yemen ulcer, etc. They are 
found principally in jungle lands, less frequently in 
towns and well-settled districts. Whether tropical 
sloughing phagedsena and hospital gangrene, at one 
time so prevalent in the hospitals of Europe, are 
the same disease, it is difficult to say. They agree 
in some respects; but in the marked tendency of 
the tropical sore to self-limitation, and, possibly, as 
Scheube points out, in its relatively feebly infective 
power, there is some indication of a specific difference. 

Occasionally this disease assumes epidemic propor- 
tions. Thus, Lloyd Patterson (Ind. Med. Gaz., Nov., 
1908) described one such epidemic which "swept 
like a plague up the whole of Assam," seriously inter- 
fering with the efficiency of the labour force on the 
tea plantations. 

A variety of bacteria and spirochsetes have been 
described as possible germ causes of this disease. 
Vincent remarked the frequent concurrence of spiro- 
chsetes and fusiform bacilli in the sores, an observa- 
tion confirmed by several others, including Todd and 
Wolbach on the Gambia. Prowazek attributes these 
ulcers to Spiroclic&ta, schaudinni. Lloyd Patterson 
has called attention (loc. cit.) to a bacillus occurring 
in scrapings from the base of the ulcers, which he 
considers as the probable germ, and which had 
hitherto been overlooked in consequence of the 
difficulty in staining it, prolonged immersion in 
Leishman's stain being necessary. 

Although sloughing phagedrena is evidently a 
germ disease, it is not readily communicated by 
ordinary inoculation either to man or to the lower 
animals. Apparently a concurrence of certain un- 
known conditions is essential. Lloyd Patterson, 



XLVI] SLOUGHING PHAGEDJENA 865 

however, by bandaging a swab smeared with dis- 
charge from a typical sore (discharge containing large 
numbers of his bacillus) on to the surface of an abrasion 
from which the scab had been removed, succeeded in 
producing a characteristic sore, in the discharge from 
which his bacillus was present in great profusion. 

Etiology. Doubtless depending on the pro- 
liferation in the affected tissues of some specific 
micro-organism, not yet satisfactorily separated, the 
germ of sloughing phagedsena attacks the healthy as 
well as the debilitated, young or old, male or female. 
It finds its special opportunity in the bodies of 
men who, from overwork, underfeeding, exposure, 
malaria, dysentery, scorbutus, and the like, are 
physically depressed. Thus it is apt to attack the 
half-starved, malaria-stricken pioneers in jungle lands, 
overdriven slave gangs, and soldiers campaigning in 
the tropics. In such circumstances a slight wound, 
an abrasion, even an insect bite, or an old chronic 
ulcer may serve as the starting-point for one of 
these terrible sores. Where yaws and sloughing pha- 
gedsena are co-endemic, the sores of the former may 
become infected with the virus of the latter, and 
serious sloughing and cicatricial contractions result. 
The feet and legs, being most exposed to injury, are 
the most frequent locations for this form of ulceration ; 
but the arms or any other part of the body may also 
be attacked. 

Symptoms. If the disease occur in previously 
sound skin the first indication is the formation of a 
larger or smaller bleb with sero-sanguinolent con- 
tents. The formation of this may be attended with 
some pain and constitutional irritation. When, in the 
course of a few hours, the bulla ruptures, an ash- 
grey, moist slough is exposed. The sloughing process 
rapidly extends in all directions until the skin and 
subcutaneous fascia over an area of an inch to many 
inches in diameter are converted into a yellowish, 
moist, horribly stinking slough. After a few days 
the centre of the slough beings to liquefy, the sore 
still continuing to extend at the periphery. In the 
course of a week or longer the sloughing process may 
2 c 



866 DISEASES OF THE SKIN [CHAP. 

cease and the slough be gradually thrown off. Then 
it is seen that not only have the skin and superficial 
fascia been destroyed, but that in bad cases possibly 
muscles, tendons, nerves, vessels, and even the peri- 
osteum of the bones, have shared in .the gangrenous 
process. Fortunately in many instances the deeper 
structures are spared, the disease being relatively 
limited and superficial. Sometimes, however, impor- 
tant structures, including joints, bones, and large 
blood-vessels, are destroyed ; in such cases, even if 
life be spared, great deformity may ensue from 
different forms of aiikylosis, or from strangulation of 
a distal part by a contracting cicatrix. 

When the disease attacks a pre-existing wound 
or sore, the granulating surface of this becomes dry, 
and rapidly assumes the appearance and characters of 
a slough. 

In sloughing phagedaena the neighbourhood of the 
sore is somewhat congested and swollen, particularly 
so if the patient has been obliged to use the limb. 
Constitutional disturbance may be considerable and 
of an adynamic type. On the other hand, it occasion- 
ally happens that large sores are attended with 
singularly slight local or general reaction. In bad 
cases a saprsemic condition is apt to supervene and 
carry off the patient ; or death may occur from 
bleeding from the opening of a large blood-vessel. 

Treatment. It is of the first importance to 
endeavour to correct any cachectic state which may 
be present. Thus good food, fresh vegetables, lime- 
juice, and quinine are almost invariably indicated. 
Opium in full doses, not merely to assuage pain, but 
on account of its special action on the phagedsenic 
process, is usually of great service. Locally, an 
endeavour must be made effectually to destroy the 
germ by the application of some powerful and pene- 
trating caustic to the diseased surface. With this 
view, on the strength of considerable experience, I 
recommend that the patient be put under chloroform 
and the slough thoroughly dissolved off by the free 
application of pure carbolic acid, a piece of lint on a 
stout stick being used as a mop for the purpose. 



XLVI] BOILS 867 

Thereafter the limb should be elevated and placed 
under some improvised irrigator from which a weak, 
warm antiseptic solution should continuously trickle 
over the now clean surface. If the phagedsenic 
action recur the carbolic acid must be promptly 
reapplied as often as may be necessary. On healthy 
granulations springing up the nicer is to be treated 
on ordinary principles. Lloyd Patterson recommends 
a dressing of carbolic oil after the initial cauterization, 
and subsequently, when the sore is clean, a dressing 
of lead-foil such as is used for lining tea-chests. 

Patients with this disease should be regarded as 
infective, and, so far as possible, isolated. 

BOILS 

The anatomical and clinical features of this 
painful affection are too familiar to require detailed 
description. Suffice it to say that a boil is pro- 
duced by the proliferation of Staphylococcus pyogenes 
aureus and albus, Streptococcus pyogenes, or other 
pyogenic micro-organisms in the skin and subcuta- 
neous tissue ; that the organism gives rise to local 
and limited infiltration of the tissues with lymph 
which subsequently and rapidly dies, the necrotic 
core being surrounded by an areola of acute inflam- 
mation ; that this core is separated by a process of 
sloughing and so got rid of, the resulting ulcer 
speedily healing and leaving a depressed scar, which, 
when occurring about the legs, may become pig- 
mented. Though a self-limiting disease locally, it is 
nevertheless capable of being inoculated elsewhere 
in the same individual, both through a breach of 
surface and, also, by simple contact of the discharges 
with the skin, the micro-organism apparently enter- 
ing by a hair follicle. This auto-inoculability of 
boils is apt to be overlooked. 

Conditions of debility, presumably by lowering 
resistance, predispose to boils ; the subjects of 
diabetes are specially prone to them, the saccha- 
rine state of the blood or secretions seeming to be 
particularly favourable to growth of the specific 
germ. 



868 DISEASES OF THE SKIN [CHAP. 

Few Europeans in the tropics escape an attack 
of boils at one time or another. In some instances 
crop after crop succeed one another, the individual 
boils being so numerous that the patient is quite 
unfitted for work by the attendant pain and fever. 
In certain years so many members of a community 
are attacked that the disease may be described as 
being epidemic. These epidemics, occurring when 
some particular fruit is in season, are very generally, 
but probably incorrectly, attributed to the use of 
the fruit in question. Mangoes, probably erroneously, 
are frequently held responsible. 

Treatment. Any constitutional irregularity 
must be treated appropriately. Malaria demands 
quinine ; anaemia and debility, iron and wine ; con- 
stipation, aperients ; diabetes, a suitable diet. I 
have never seen any good from such vaunted specifics 
as calcium sulphuret, tar water, or yeast. 

Boils ought never, unless in very exceptional cir- 
cumstances, to be poulticed. Poulticing, although it 
may relieve the pain of the existing boil, is prone to 
be followed by more boils in the area sodden by the 
heat and moisture. Neither should boils be incised 
or squeezed. The only exception to the rule for 
not cutting is in the case of boils occurring in the 
scalp or in the axilla. In the former situation, unless 
opened early, they are apt, especially in young 
children, to burrow and cause troublesome abscesses ; 
in the latter situation boils tend to be very indolent 
and painful, and do not readily spontaneously break 
through the lax integuments. 

In any situation in which the boil is liable to be 
irritated by pressure or clothing, it is sometimes a 
good plan to cover the part with a circle of wash- 
leather spread with soap plaster, and having a small 
hole cut in its centre corresponding to the apex of 
the boil. When a boil opens, the discharge must be 
kept from soiling the adjoining skin, and the patient 
must be warned against touching the skin elsewhere 
with pus-soiled fingers. The parts must be frequently 
cleansed with l-in-1,000 corrosive sublimate lotion, 
powdered with boric acid and covered with a dry, 



XLVI] PEMPHIGUS CONTAGIOSUS 869 

absorbent antiseptic dressing. A threatening boil may 
- often be aborted by touching the little initial itching or 
vesiculated papule with some penetrating antiseptic, 
as iodine tincture, or by painting it with collodion. 
A very successful method is to drill slowly into the 
centre of the papule with a pointed pencil of hard 
wood dipped in pure carbolic acid. The point of the 
pencil should penetrate at least an eighth of an inch, 
and should be frequently recharged with the acid 
during the drilling process ; the pain is trifling. In 
this way, in a severe attack of furunculosis, boil after 
boil may be aborted and the attack brought to an end. 
In obstinate chronic furunculosis excellent results 
have occasionally attended treatment conducted on 
Wright's method of exalting the opsonic index of the 
blood by injections of killed cultures of the patient's 
pyogenic micro-organisms. 

In severe cases change of air may be necessary. 

PEMPHIGUS CONTAGIOSUS (PYOSIS MANSONI : 
Castellani and Chalmers) 

Definition. A non-febrile, highly contagious 
skin disease peculiar to warm countries. It is charac- 
terized by the formation of large vesicles or bullse 
which are unattended by marked inflammation, ulcer- 
ation, or the formation of crusts or scars. 

Geographical distribution. Pemphigus con- 
tagiosus is very common in South China during 
the hot weather ; in some years it may even be de- 
scribed as epidemic. It is perennial in the Straits 
Settlements, and it is known in Ceylon, Madras, in 
North Queensland, Japan, and America. Doubt- 
less, although it has escaped notice by most medical 
writers, it is common enough elsewhere in the 
tropics, or wherever heat and moisture combine to 
bring about a state of skin favouring its develop- 
ment on the infective material being applied. It is 
especially common in schools and similar institutions 
where large numbers of children are thrown much 
together ; they readily pass the disease one to the 
other. European children are more prone to it than 



870 DISEASES OF THE SKIN [CHAP. 

native children; European adults are by no means 
exempt, but the native adult is rarely affected. 

Symptoms. Pemphigus contagiosus closely 
resembles certain forms of the impetigo contagiosa of 
temperate countries, and is doubtless a variety of 
this class of skin disease. The individual lesions, as 
can readily be ascertained by inoculation experiments, 
begin as minute erythematous specks, which rapidly 
proceed to the formation of vesicles, bullse, or even 
large pemphigus-like blebs. The little blister springs 
abruptly from sound skin ; there is no, or very little, 
areola of congestion. For a short time the hemi- 
spherical bleb is beautifully pellucid, tense, and 
shining. Presently the serous contents become some- 
what turbid, and the blister gets flaccid and dull. 
At this stage, from scratching or from pressure, the 
blister is generally ruptured. The morbid process 
does not at once come to an end, but proceeds as an 
advancing, eccentrically spreading exfoliation of the 
epidermis ; an exfoliation which may not cease to 
advance until an area an inch or more in diameter 
is denuded of epithelium. Then, in that particular 
spot, the disease stops, a pinkish, slightly glazed- 
looking patch, rarely covered with a tissue-paper-like 
scale, remaining for some time. Occasionally, after 
the rupture of the primary bleb, vesication may con- 
tinue in the peripheral portion of its remains. Only 
one or two blebs may be visible on the entire surface 
of the body ; generally there are many, the disease 
being spread by the fingers in scratching or rubbing. 

Pemphigus contagiosus may occur in almost any 
part of the body. In young children it is usually 
diffuse ; in adults it is mostly confined to the axillae 
and crutch. In these situations it gives rise to 
much irritation and discomfort, owing to the suc- 
cessive crops of bullse running into each other and 
rendering the parts raw and tender, and predis- 
posed to boils or some form of eczematous intertrigo. 
During warm, moist weather it nray be kept up in- 
definitely by auto-inoculation. 

^ Assistant- Surgeon Soorjee Narain Singh describes 
a series of cases of a form of contagious pemphigus 



XLVI] PEMPHIGUS CONTAGIOSUS 871 

occurring in rapid succession in the children of three 
families in India (exact locality not specified), which 
bears some resemblance to the pemphigus contagiosus 
above described. It differs, however, inasmuch as in 
the Indian disease the bullae were very large often 
larger than hen's eggs and persisted for from one to 
three weeks. In one of the thirteen cases described 
there followed a certain amount of sloughing at the 
seat of the bullae ; in the others there was neither 
ulceration nor constitutional disturbance. 

Etiology and pathology. Like ordinary im- 
petigo contagiosa, this is undoubtedly a germ disease. 
I have found a diplococcns in the epidermis and fluid 
of the blister ; whether this is the special bacterium 
responsible for the disease, cultivation and inoculation 
experiment have not yet decided. The Leishman 
body has been found in the contents of the blebs. 
Its presence there has probably no etiological sig- 
nificance so far as this special lesion is concerned. 

Diagnosis. Absence of constitutional symp- 
toms, or a history of such, distinguishes 'pemphigus 
contagiosus from chicken-pox. Absence of tricho- 
phyton elements and of a well-defined, slightly raised, 
festooned, and itching margin, together with the pre- 
sence of large blebs and scaling of the epidermis, dis- 
tinguish it from ordinary forms of body ringworm a 
disease with which, when occurring in the armpits 
and crutch in adults, it is frequently confounded. 

Treatment. Cleanliness, the frequent use of a 
bichloride of mercury lotion (1 to 1,000), and a dust- 
ing powder of equal parts of boric acid, starch, and 
zinc oxide, are speedily effective. In the school and 
nursery those responsible for the care of children must 
be informed of the contagiousness of this unpleasant 
affection, and measures be instituted accordingly. 

3. FUNGOUS SKIN DISEASES 
MYCETOMA 

Definition. A fungous disease of warm cli- 
mates, affecting principally the foot, occasionally 
the hand, rarely the internal organs or other parts 



872 DISEASES OF THE SKIN [CHAP. 

of the body. It is characterized by enlargement 
and deformity of the . part ; an oily degeneration and 
general fusion of the affected tissues ; the forma- 
tion of cyst-like cavities communicating by sinuses, 
and containing mycotic aggregations in an oily 
purulent fluid which escapes from fistulous openings 
on the surface. The disease runs a slow course, is never 
recovered from spontaneously, and, unless removed, 
terminates after many years in death from exhaustion. 

History and geographical distribution. 
The earliest notice of this disease we owe to Keempfer 
(1712). Its more modern history commenced with 
Godfrey of Madras, who, in the Lancet of June 10th, 
1843, gave a description of several unquestionable 
examples under the title, " Tubercular Disease of the 
Foot." Subsequently, Balingall (1855), who was the 
first to suggest its parasitic nature, Eyre (1860), and 
others added considerably to our knowledge of the 
subject. The merit of bringing the disease promi- 
nently before the profession, and of distinctly describ- 
ing its clinical and anatomical features, as well as of 
suggesting its true pathology, belongs entirely to 
Vandyke Carter, who, from 1860 to 1874, in a series 
of important papers, furnished the information on 
which all later descriptions have been principally 
founded. Carter was the first to point out the pre- 
sence of mycotic elements in the discharges coming 
from the implicated structures, and in the contents of 
the characteristic cysts and sinuses with which they 
are honeycombed, and showed that the disease was 
allied to actinomycosis. Recently much information 
has been supplied by Wright, Nicolle, Laveran, 
Bouffard, and, especially, by Brumpt. 

Iji India mycetoma is endemic in districts more or 
less limited. These districts are scattered over a wide 
area, the intervening regions in some instances whole 
provinces, as that of Lower Bengal enjoying an almost 
complete immunity. It appears to be acquired orfly 
in rural districts, the inhabitants of the towns being 
exempt. Among the more afflicted districts may be 
mentioned Madura hence the name "Madura foot" 
by which mycetoma is often known Hirsar, Ajmeer, 



XLVI] MYCETOMA 873 

Delhi, various places in the Punjab, Kashmir, and 
Raj pu tana. In recent years we have accounts of its 
occurrence with some degree of frequency in Sene- 
gambia, Somaliland, Algeria, Egypt, the Soudan, 
Cochin China, Italy, the United States, and South 
America. It is probable that in time mycetoma will 
be found to be endemic in many warm countries in 
which it has hitherto escaped recognition. 

Symptoms. Mycetoma begins usually, though 
by no means invariably, on the sole of the foot. 
The first indication of disease is the slow formation 
of a small, firm, rounded, somewhat hemispherical, 
slightly discoloured, painless swelling, perhaps about 
J in. in diameter (Fig. 205). After a month or 
more this swelling may soften and rupture, dis- 
charging a peculiar viscid, syrupy, oily, slightly 
purulent, sometimes blood-streaked fluid containing 
in suspension certain minute, rounded, greyish or 
yellowish particles, often compared to grains of fish- 
roe. In other examples of the disease the particles 
in the discharge are black, having the size and ap- 
pearance of grains of coarse gunpowder. Sometimes 
these particles are aggregated into larger masses up 
to the size of a pea. In time additional swellings, 
some of which break down and form similar sinuses, 
appear in the neighbourhood of the first or elsewhere 
about the foot. For the most part the sinuses are 
permanent, healing up in a very few instances only. 
Gradually the bulk of the foot increases to perhaps two 
or three times the normal volume (Fig. 206). There is 
comparatively little lengthening of the foot ; but there 
is a general increase in thickness, so that in time 
the mass comes to assume an ovoid form, the sole of 
the member becoming convex, the sides rounded, 
and the anatomical points obliterated. The toes may 
be forced apart, bent upwards at the tarso-phalangeal 
joints, or otherwise misdirected ; so that on the foot 
being placed on the ground the toes do not touch it. 
The surface of the skin is roughened by a number 
of larger or smaller, firmer or softer hemispherical 
elevations, in some of which the orifices of the numer- 
ous sinuses open. Most of these orifices are easily 
2 c* 



874 




MYCETOMA 



875 



made out ; others are not so apparent, their position 
being indicated and, at the same time, concealed by 
a bunch of pale, flabby, fungating, and but slightly 
vascular granulations. In the latter the orifice may 
be hard to find. Once the probe is got to enter, 
the instrument readily passes to a considerable depth, 
even to the bone ; in advanced cases it can be carried 
through the softened tissues with the greatest ease in 
almost any direction, and without causing much pain 
or haemorrhage. 




206. gection of a Madura foot. (T. R. Lewis.) 



The discharge issuing from the sinuses differs in 
amount in different cases, and from time to time in 
the same case ; whether profuse or scanty, isb always 
exhibits the same oily, mucoid, slightly purulent 
appearance, and may stink abominably. With a very 
few exceptions it contains either the grey or the black 
grains already referred to ; rarely similar bodies of a 
reddish or pink colour. 

To the touch the swollen foot feels somewhat 
elastic, and does not readily pit on pressure. The 
sensibility of the skin is preserved. Although com- 
plained of in some instances, severe pain is rarely 
a prominent feature. The principal complaint is of 
inconvenience from the bulk and weight of the mass, 



876 DISEASES OF THE SKIN [CHAP. 

and, in advanced cases, of the useless ness of the limb 
for locomotion. In time the foot is no longer put to 
the ground, different unnatural styles of progression 
being adopted by different patients. 

As the foot enlarges the leg atrophies from disuse ; 
so that in the advanced disease an enormously en- 
larged and misshapen foot, flexed or extended, is 
attached to an attenuated leg consisting of little more 
than skin and bone. In some the tibia, or, if the 
hand is the seat of invasion, the bones of the forearm 
become involved; in others the disease at first may be 
confined to a toe, or a finger, or other limited area. 
In a very few instances the seat of the disease is the 
knee, thigh, jaw, or neck. Unless the case be one 
of actinomycosis the internal organs are never spe- 
cifically implicated, either primarily or secondarily. 
The lymphatic glands likewise, although they may 
be the subject of adenitis from secondary septic 
infection, are very rarely involved. 

After ten or twenty years the patient dies, worn 
out by the continued drain, or carried off more 
suddenly by diarrhoea or other intercurrent disease. 

Classification, etiology, and histology. 
Formerly the tropical forms of mycetoma were 
classified according to the colour of the mycotic 
particles in the discharge. Thus we had the white 
or ochroid, the black or melanoid, and the red forms 
of mycetoma, the last being a very rare variety. 
Brumpt's investigations have made possible a classi- 
fication more scientific than this crude clinical one ; 
the latter, therefore, has to be abandoned. 

This authority distinguishes eight different kinds 
of mycetoma, two of which are caused by species of 
Discomyces. Of the other six, two are certainly 
caused by species of Aspergillus. The remaining four 
are also probably due to species of aspergillus, but, 
in the absence of cultural evidence, he places them in 
two provisional groups : one of these, embracing the 
unpigmented septate species, he names Indiella ; the 
other, the pigmented species, he calls Madurella. 
Moreover, he has shown that the fungi which give 
rise to mycetoma may present not only resisting 



XLVI] MYCETOMA 877 

forms such as sclerotia and chlamydospores, but also 
characteristic spore apparatus (Aspergillus nidulans, 
A. bou/ardi). The species are as follows : 

1. ACTINOMYCOTIC MYCETOMA 

Caused by the ray -fungus, Discom^ces bovis (Harz, 1877). 
Actinomycosis has a world-wide distribution and is a common 
disease of cattle. It occurs also in hogs. In men it may 
attack the extremities, giving rise to a tumour clinically indis- 
tinguishable from other kinds of mycetoma, or it may develop 
in the jaw, the tongue, lungs, liver, brain ; and occasionally 
the primary lesion may be followed by metastases in all parts 
of the body. 

The fungus of actinomycosis develops equally well in most 
tissues. It destroys bone by erosion and spares only nerves 
and tendons. The pus from the affected region contains small 
yellowish granules ("sulphur grains") of irregular shape, 
attaining at most 0'75 mm. in diameter. They are soft and 
consist of an inextricable felted mass of inycelia. The threads 
are radially arranged at the periphery of the grain, and their 
free extremity widens into a bulbous, club-like termination 
(10-20 p. long by 8-10 /* wide). These clubbed ends have been 
looked upon by several authors as forms of degeneration. 
Brumpt points out that they consist of young, active proto- 
plasm, and holds that they are functionally hypertrophied 
while elaborating food for the colony. In old grains the clubs 
disappear, their protoplasm being utilized in the formation of 
spores. 

This fungus gives rise to ramified sinuses which extend 
in all directions, opening at the surface by numerous vents. 
The sinuses are surrounded by a thick fibrous sheath of con- 
nective tissue. The centre of the largest tunnels is softened, 
the youngest grains being at the periphery surrounded by 
polynuclear cells and almost in contact with the sclerosed 
tissues which separate the cavities and sinuses. 

The parasite has been successfully cultivated, and the dis- 
ease has been inoculated both with the natural and the 
artificially grown organism. 

Discomyces bovis lives saprophytically on certain plants. 
It has been found on the spikelets of cereals (Hordeum mur- 
mium L., Phleum pratense L., etc.), and is therefore probably 
inoculated through the skin or mucous membranes in the 
same way as the fungi which give rise to other kinds of 
mycetoma. 

The diagnosis of the disease from tertiary syphilis and 
bone tuberculosis rests on the characteristic grains present in 
the pus. 

The disease is progressive and of grave import. The treat- 
ment is largely surgical. In early cases iodide of potassium in 
doses of from 40 to 60 grains daily has proved advantageous, 
and in some cases even curative. 



878 DISEASES OF THE SKIN [CHAP. 

ii. VINCENT'S WHITE MYCETOMA 

Caused by Discomyces madura (Vincent, 1894). This kind of 
mycetoma is common and widely distributed. It has been 
observed in Algeria, in Abyssinia, in Somaliland, in the island 
of Cyprus, in India, in the Argentine Republic, and in Cuba. 

It runs a slow course. Unlike D. bovis and other myce- 
toma-producing fungi, it does not destroy bone, and does not 
seem to act directly on the general health of the patient, though 
ultimately and indirectly it may bring about cachexia. 

The grains formed by Discomyces madurce vary in size from 
that of a pin's head to that of a pea. They are of a yellowish- 
white colour, present a mulberry-like surface, are soft and 
easily crushed. Their mode of growth is absolutely character- 
istic. The grain throws out from its periphery radiating fila- 
ments. Between these fungus threads are numerous lympho- 
cytes (likewise arranged in radial series) embedded in an 
amorphous substance, probably arising from the destruction 
of lymphocytes, epithelial cells, and macrophages, on which 
the mycelium feeds. The crown of amorphous rays round 
the grain is typical. The grain is surrounded by numerous 
polynuclear leucocytes. Having attained from 1 to 1'5 mm. 
diameter, the grain projects small shoots which become detached 
from the parent grain, enlarge, and reproduce the characteristic 
radial structure. Other grains form also, and, after a time, 
the typical large mulberry granule is formed, the central 
grains degenerating. The grains are found in cavities sur- 
rounded by inflammatory connective tissue permeated by poly- 
nuclear cells and occasionally giant cells. 

iii. NICOLLE'S WHITE MYCETOMA 

Caused by Aspergillus nidulans (Eidam, 1883). So far only 
one case has been observed, in Tunis, but probably it occurs 
in many places, the parasite Aspergillus nidulans being widely 
distributed. The grains formed by this fungus may also attain 
the size of a pea, but they differ from those of Discomyces 
maduree, inasmuch as they are more or less spherical and pre- 
sent a smooth surface. 

In this form of mycetoma the bones are attacked and 
destroyed. 

iv. BOUFFARD'S BLACK MYCETOMA 

Caused \>y Aspergillus bouffardi (Brumpt, 1906). This form 
was discovered by Bouffard at Djibouti, Somaliland. Lewis 
seems to have met a similar case in India ; a third case, probably 
also belonging to this species, was described by Bovo in Italy. 

The . grains are quite characteristic. They are black in 
colour and vary in size from a pin's head to that of No. 1 shot. 
They present a mulberry-like surface which is smooth and 
glossy. They are somewhat elastic, but break when pressed. 
Their structure is remarkable. It consists of a coiled-up mass. 
Maceration in water for about twenty-four hours causes the 
grain to unfold. Sections show that the grain is composed of a 



XLVI] MYCETOMA 879 

densely felted mycelium of a silvery-white colour, with a peri- 
pheral zone of irregularly moniliform threads with terminal 
chlamydospores cemented together by a dark brown interstitial 
substance. 

The grains are found in the cellular tissue, always singly and 
within small cavities. Each grain is surrounded by enormous 
giant cells, and by epithelioid cells of all sizes, and is enclosed 
in a characteristic shell of connective tissue. 

This kind of mycetoma appears to be more amenable to 
treatment. Bouffard's and Bovo's cases were radically cured 
by curettage. In Bovo's case a secondary extension to the 
groin lymphatics of tbe affected side had suggested the 
diagnosis of melano-sarcoma. 

v. CLASSIC BLACK MYCETOMA 

Caused by Madurella mycetomi (Laveran, 1902). This myce- 
toma has a very wide distribution. It has been observed in 
Italy, in Africa (Senegal, French Soudan), and in India. 

The grain formed by Madurella, mycetomi is dark brown or 
black in colour. It measures 1 to 2 mm. in diameter, is hard 
and brittle ; its surface is irregular and frequently presents 
pointed eminences which differentiate it from the larger and 
smooth grains of dspergillus bouffardi. The grain is composed 
of white threads, always over 1 ^ in diameter and attaining at 
times 8 to 10 p., which secrete a dark brown substance that 
cements them together. The grain is first surrounded by 
giant cells, epithelioid cells, and numerous polynuclear cells, 
and shows numerous chlamydospores at the periphery. Then 
a thick capsule of fibrous connective tissue forms round it. 
This puts an end to the vegetation of the fungus, which passes 
into a resting stage and is converted* into sclerotia, in which 
form it is eliminated. This was shown by Carter as early as 
1860. The grains form rapidly within the tissues. Brumpt 
reports a case in which they were eliminated in large numbers 
one month after the commencement of the disease. 

Each grain may become the centre of an active colony, 
which continues to 'extend, destroying the surrounding tissues, 
until arrested by a barrier of sclerosed tissue. Thus large 
tumours may be formed. In very old grains the mycelium 
presents cavities filled with numerous chlamydospores. Some- 
times, on account of unfavourable conditions, certain lobes of 
the fungus separate from the rest of the colony and become 
independent grains. This mode of vegetation, characteristic 
of the species, gives to the lesions a typical rosette-lik<j 
appearance. 

; vi. BRUMPT'S WHITE MYCETOMA 

Caused by Indiella mansoni (Brumpt, 1906). This form was 
described from a specimen of Indian origin in the museum of 
the London School of Tropical Medicine. 

The grains peculiar to this form are hard, white, and very 
small, varying in size between i and i- mm., and having 



830 DISEASES OF THE SKIN [CHAP. 

a lenticular shape. Some are bean-shaped and flat. To 
study their structure it is necessary to boil them first in a 
solution of caustic potash. The hyphal threads are large and 
closely set, but without any cementing substance between 
them. The periphery of the grain contains numerous large 
chlamydospores with thick wall and full of protoplasm. 

The grains of Indiella mansoni are always numerous within 
the inflammatory tissue. The latter is brownish and is not 
surrounded by a well-marked sheath of connective tissue as in 
other mycetomas. It contains numerous polynuclear cells, a 
few lymphocytes, and some macrophages. 

vii. REYNIER'S WHITE MYCETOMA 

Caused by Indiella reynieri, Brumpt, 1906. This form was 
found in Paris by Keynier. 

The grains may attain 1 mm. in diameter ; they are soft, 
white, and consist of a coiled-up strand, which gives them a 
peculiar appearance resembling the excrement of earthworms. 
They are made up of a dense felting of hyphal threads, the 
peripheral branches of which usually terminate in chlamydo- 
spores divided into two or three compartments. The hyphae 
are bound by a scanty cement, which is easily dissolved out 
by boiling in caustic potash. 

viii BOUFFAKD'S WHITE MYCETOMA 

Caused by Indiella somaliensis, Brumpt, 1906. This form is 
perhaps even more common in India than Vincent's white 
mycetoma. Bouffard has found it twice in Somaliland. 

Indiella somaliensis is a most destructive fungus. In a foot 
examined by Brumpt all the muscles, tendons, and bones had 
been replaced by sclerosed tissues more or less homogeneous 
and presenting numerous sinuses full of yellowish grains 
clustered together like fish-roe, and many small inflammatory 
nodules containing one or more grains. 

The grains vary in colour from white to reddish yellow ; 
they are small, smooth, and attain on an average about 1 mm. 
in diameter. They are spherical when single, but polyhedral 
from reciprocal pressure when clustered in masses. The 
parasite in its earliest stage is always found in a giant cell, 
showing as an irregular mass which stains more deeply than 
the enclosing cell. Usually several infected cells coalesce; 
the grain which results is surrounded by an amorphous layer 
produced by the destruction of the elements which form its 
substratum. The grains are not enclosed within nodules, as is 
the rule in certain mycetomas, but spread exactly like those of 
actinomycosis. 

In the amorphous zone of cellular detritus Brumpt found 
a discomyces which seems to live symbiotically with Indiella 
somaliensis. In attempts at culture BoufFard found that this 
discomyces was the only organism that grew. Other investi- 
gators Boyce, Vincent, Musgrave and Clegg, etc. have culti- 
vated a streptothrix from the white variety, differing from the 



XLVI] MYCETOMA 881 

actinomyces in producing no pigment and forming white 
raised colonies on agar. Probably there are several conditions 
in actinomycosis, as in mycetoma, bearing a general resem- 
blance to each other, but differing slightly according as they 
are produced by different species of streptothrix. 

Morbid anatomy. On cutting into a myceto 
matous foot or hand the knife passes readily through 
the mass, exposing a section with an oily, greasy 
surface, in which the anatomical elements in many 
places are unrecognizable, being, as it were, fused 
together, forming a pale, greyish-yellow mass. The 
bones in parts have entirely disappeared ; where their 
remains can still be made out the cancellated struc- 
ture is very friable, thinned, opened out, and infil- 
trated with oleaginous material. Of all the structures 
the tendons and fasciae seem to be the most resistant. 

The most remarkable feature revealed by section 
is a network of sinuses and communicating cyst- 
like cavities of various dimensions, from a mere 
speck to a cavity an inch or more in diameter. 
Sinuses and cysts are occupied by a material unlike 
anything else in human morbid anatomy. In the 
black varieties of mycetoma this material consists of a 
black or dark brown, firm, friable substance which, 
in many places, stuffs the sinuses and cysts ; mani- 
festly it is from this that the black particles in the 
discharge are derived. In the white varieties the 
sinuses and cysts are also more or less stuffed with 
a white or yellowish roe-like substance, evidently an 
aggregation of particles identical with those escaping 
in the corresponding discharge. The black substance, 
which can be readily turned out, is moulded into 
truffle-like masses ranging in size from a mere grain 
to a small apple, according to the capacity of the cysts 
or sinuses containing it. The roe-like particles in the 
white varieties are held together by a softer, cheesy - 
looking material. The sinuses and cysts occupy the 
bones, muscles, or fasciae indiscriminately ; they are 
found principally in the fat and the connective tissue. 
They are lined with a smooth membrane, adherent 
when in the soft tissues, but capable of being enu- 
cleated when in the bones. Some of the cysts do not 
communicate with sinuses ; most of them, however, 



882 DISEASES OF THE SKIN [CHAP. 

do so, and with each other, opening on the surface of 
the skin at the mammillated fistulas already referred 
to. In the very rare red variety the colour of the 
accretions is red or pink. 

Under the microscope the mycotic elements 
can be readily recognized in the concretions. In 
microscopic sections of the tissues evidences of ex- 
tensive degenerative changes, the result of a chronic 
inflammatory process, can be made out. An important 
feature as bearing on the pathology of the disease, 
and one which was long ago described by Lewis and 
Cunningham, has been insisted on more recently by 
Cunningham, namely, a sort of arteritis obliterans 
or extensive proliferation of the endothelium of 
the arteries and, according to Vincent, a thickening 
of the adventitia of the vessels as well as of the 
capillaries in the more affected areas. 

Mode of entrance of the fungus. Little is known 
on this point. It is conjectured that the fungi live as 
parasites on certain plants, and that they may pene- 
trate the tissues of man through a wound in the skin. 
The peculiar endemicity and geographical distribution 
of the disease, and the facts of its occurring almost 
invariably on the feet or hands, and principally in 
bare-footed agriculturists, favour this view. 

Treatment. The only effective treatment, in 
the case of implication of a considerable part of the foot 
or hand, is amputation. This must be performed well 
above the seat of the disease ; for it must be borne in 
mind that the long bones may be implicated as well 
as the small bones, and that unless- the entire disease 
be removed it will recur in the stump. Complete 
removal is not followed by relapse. If a toe, or a 
small portion of the foot or hand, is alone involved, 
this may be excised with success. Potassium iodide 
has been found to be beneficial in certain forms. 

BLASTOMYCOSIS 

This term is used to indicate lesions, other than 
mycetoma, produced by the proliferation of certain 
yeast-like fungi in the tissues. Normally these fungi 
are either saprophytic or live as parasites on animals 



XLVI] BLASTOMYCOSIS 883 

and plants. They appear to be especially abundant 
in tropical countries. Doubtless they get access to 
the tissues through some wound or breach of surface. 
A number of species, distinguishable perhaps by the 
njycologists, have been described ; for the clinician it 
suffices to know that in the morbid discharges and 
tissues they occur and are recognizable as yeast-like 
cells. In some instances the parasites are limited to 
one particular spot ; in others they are more diffuse, 
and may attack almost any organ or tissue. The 
following clinical types have been recognized : 

1. The cutaneous. Patches of various dimensions 
of small warty excrescences with minute abscesses or 
encrusted ulcers, especially at the periphery of the 
patch. 

2. Oral. Lesions resembling the foregoing, which 
develop in or spread to the mucosa of the mouth and 
throat, and eventuate in deep ulceration and perhaps 
fatal destruction of the part. 

3. Coccidial. The skin lesions are similar to 
type -1, but usually larger and coarser. The viscera 
becoming involved, death ensues. In the affected 
tissues peculiar round bodies, 3 to 80 p. in diameter, 
many of them containing a multitude of spores, are a 
feature. 

4. Gluteal. There is extensive brawny thickening 
of one or both gluteal regions, the superjacent skin 
being thickened and coarse and perforated with the 
openings of many communicating sinuses. The con- 
dition is apt to be regarded as an aggravated form of 
fistula in ano. 

5. Sporotrichosis. Gumma-like swellings in limbs 
or trunk, which enlarge and ultimately break down, 
leaving deep ulcers. The lymphatics, oral cavity, 
periosteum, muscles, or viscera may become involved. 
In the discharges and tissues the parasites are scanty, 
so that the niycotic nature of the disease can be 
made out only from cultures in glucose-agar tubes. 

Diagnosis. Usually these lesions in the first 
instance suggest syphilis or tuberculosis. Specific 
treatment and absence of reaction to tuberculin and 
of the bacillus of tubercle should lead to a careful 



884 DISEASES OF THE SKIN [CHAP. 

search for yeast-like organisms in the discharges or 
scrapings. 

Treatment. All forms of blastomycosis are 
exceedingly chronic and resistant to treatment. 
Surgical measures are useless, but large doses of the 
iodide of potassium or of sodium (2030 gr. three 
times a day, well diluted) are sometimes effective, 
and should always be tried, and continued, if found 
beneficial, until cure is well established. The X-rays 
are at times a useful adjunct. 

DHOBIE'S ITCH 

In view of the recent researches of Sabouraud and 
others on the ringworms of Europe, there can be little 
doubt that the ringworms of warm countries are at- 
tributable to a large variety of fungus forms, probably 
many of them derived from the lower animals. Al- 
though, in a general way, we are familiar enough with 
the clinical features of these ringworms, their specific 
germs have not as yet been very closely studied. By the 
lay public all epiphytic skin diseases, more especially 
all forms of intertrigo, are spoken of as dhobie's (washer- 
man's) itch, in the belief, probably not very well 
founded, that they are contracted from clothes which 
have been contaminated by the washerman. There are 
many sources of ringworm infection in warm climates 
besides the much-maligned dhobie. 

In the tropics, native children often exhibit dry, 
scurfy patches of ringworm on the scalp ; and the 
skin of the trunk and limbs of adults is not in- 
frequently affected with red, slightly raised, itching 
rings, or segments of rings, of trichophyton infection. 
Sometimes these rings enclose areas many inches in 
diameter. 

Pityriasis versicolor is also very common in the 
tropics. It is the usual cause of the pale, fawn- 
coloured, slightly scurfy patches so frequently a 
feature on the dark-skinned bodies of natives. On 
the dark-pigmented skins of negroes, Indians, and 
dark-complexioned Chinese the patch of pityriasis 
contrary to what obtains in Europeans and light- 
skinned Chinese is usually paler than the healthy 



XLVI] DHOBIE'S ITCH 885 

integument surrounding it. The pigment in the 
fungus and the profuse growth of the latter con- 
ceal, as a coat of paint might, the dark underlying 
natural pigment of the skin, which, moreover, in cer- 
tain cases seems to be affected (either increased or 
decreased) by the action of the fungus. Castellani 
has recently studied the several forms of mycotic 
pityriasis as they occur in Ceylon. He recognizes 
three forms : Pityriasis versicolor flava, produced by 
Microsporon tropicum, a fungus having a thick, irregu- 
lar, constricted mycelium ; Pityriasis versicolor alba, 
produced by a very minute fungus with straight, 
short mycelia, Microsporon macfadyeni ; and Pityria- 
sis versicolor nigra a variety I had described many 
years ago as occurring in South China produced by 
Microsporon mansoni, which contains much dark 
pigment in the mycelial tubes, and which on culture in 
maltose-agar produces black hemispherical colonies. 

The expression dJwbie's itch, although applied to 
any itching, ringworm-like affection of any part of the 
skin, most commonly refers to some form of epiphytic 
disease of the crutch or axilla. There are at least three 
species of vegetable or bacterial parasites which in 
the tropics are prone to attack these situations 
namely, the trichophytons or ordinary body ring- 
worms, the Microsporon minutissimum of erythrasma, 
and the germ of the disease I have described under 
the name pemphigus contagiosus. 

The suffering to which some of the forms of 
dhobie's itch give rise is often severe. In hot, damp 
weather especially, the germs proliferate actively, pro- 
ducing, it may be, smart dermatitis. The excessive 
irritation thus set up leads to scratching and, very 
likely, from secondary bacterial invasion, to boils or 
small abscesses. The crutch, or axillae, or both, are 
sometimes rendered so raw and tender that the patient 
may be unable to walk or even to dress. The irritation 
and itching are usually worse at night, and may keep 
the patient awake for hours. Even in the absence of 
treatment, when the cold season comes round the 
dermatitis and irritation subside spontaneously. The 
affected parts then become dry, pigmented, and scurfy, 



886 DISEASES OF THE SKIN [CHAP. 

and the fungus remains quiescent until the return of 
the next hot weather. 

Diagnosis. The diagnosis of mycotic dermatitis 
is usually easily made. The festooned margin is 
almost conclusive. In the case of pemphigus con- 
tagiosus the characteristic blebs, the smooth, raw, 
or glazed surfaces, and undermined epidermic rings 
are usually very apparent and render diagnosis easy. 
When doubt exists, recourse to the microscope may 
be necessary ; but, owing to the inflamed condition 
of the parts, there may be much difficulty in finding 
fungus elements even when the case is certainly 
epiphytic. A negative result is, therefore, not always 
conclusive against ringworm. 

I am convinced that many cases of dhobie's itch 
are produced by Microsporon minutissimum^ and that 
they are really inflamed erythrasma and not tricho- 
phyton ringworm. During cold weather one often 
sees, on the site of what, during the summer, had been 
a troublesome dhobie's itch, a brownish furfuraceous 
discoloration of the crutch or axilla. The same ap- 
pearance I have remarked in Europe in Europeans 
who had suffered from dhobie's itch in the East, and 
on examining scrapings from the parts have found M. 
minutissimum in abundance. It would seem, there- 
fore, that during the heat and moisture of a tropical 
summer this generally very unirritating parasite be- 
comes more active and excites dermatitis. The 
same may sometimes be seen in pityriasis versicolor. 
I believe that those cases of Microsporon furfur 
and minutissimum dhobie's itch are more easily 
cured than the trichophyton varieties. 

Treatment. After a thorough use of soap and 
water, the application of Vlemingkx's solution of 
sulphuret of calcium (1 oz. quicklime, 2 oz. precipi- 
tated sulphur, 15 oz. water, boiled together in an 
earthenware vessel till reduced to 1 oz. ; decant the 
clear sherry-coloured fluid after subsidence) every 
night for three or four times generally brings about a 
rapid cure. If the parts are inflamed and tender the 
solution should be diluted to half or one-quarter 
strength for the first two applications. A preliminary 



XLVI] TINEA IMBRICATA 887 

soothing treatment by lead lotion, or an ichthyol 
or hazeline ointment is desirable in such cases. A 
tincture of the leaves of Cassia alata painted on, or 
vigorous rubbing with the crushed leaves themselves, 
is equally successful. If these fail, chrysophanic acid 
ointment, 20 gr. to the ounce of vaseline, rubbed in 
twice a day till a slight erythema shows at the edge 
of the diseased patch, is almost invariably successful. 
When prescribing chrysophanic acid the physician 
must be careful to inform the patient of its staining 
effect on clothes ; to warn him to stop its use so soon 
as the erythematous ring shows ; and to be careful 
not to apply the ointment to the face. A writer in the 
Indian Med. Gaz. (Jan., 1898) strongly recommends 
the application of glacial acetic acid. It cures, he 
affirms, with, at most, two applications. The smarting 
its use entails is relieved by laying a lump of ice in a 
handkerchief on the part. Castellani and Chalmers 
recommend an ointment of resorcin 5*> salicylic 
acid gr. x, lanolin, vaseline, aa 5iv, to be applied 
twice a day. For the ringworms of the thick- 
skinned natives linimentum iodi freely applied, and 
of double strength, is the best and a most efficient 
remedy. 

Prophylaxis. The various forms of crutch 
dhobie's itch may be avoided by wearing next the 
skin short cotton bathing-drawers and changing them 
daily ; at the same time powdering, after the daily 
bath, the axillae and crutch with equal parts of boric 
acid, oxide of zinc, and starch. 

TINEA IMBRICATA (Plate XV.) 
Definition. A form of body ringworm, until 
lately peculiar to certain Eastern oceanic tropical 
climates, produced by a trichophyton, and character- 
ized by a concentric arrangement of closely set rings 
of scaling epidermis. 

Geographical distribution. This peculiar 
form of epiphytic disease is strictly confined to warm 
climates. It is principally met with in the Eastern 
Archipelago and in the islands of the South Pacific, 
although it has been found to extend westward as 



888 DISEASES OF THE SKIN [CHAP. 

far as Burma, and northward as far as Foochow and 
Formosa on the coast of China. In many of the 
islands of the South Pacific it affects a large pro- 
portion of the inhabitants ; in some islands quite 
one-half. There is good reason to believe that its 
area of distribution is gradually extending. Thus 
Turner and Koniger tell us that it was formerly un- 
known in Samoa and Bowditch Islands, where it is 
now very prevalent. Daniels informs me that it was 
introduced for the first time into Fiji by some 
Solomon Islanders in 1870 ; by 1872 it had become 
general among the Fijians. It was recently intro- 
duced into Tahiti, and rapidly spread there among 
the natives. We now hear of it in tropical Africa. 
Recently it has been described by Paranhos and 
Leme as occurring in the interior of Brazil. Once 
introduced, it spreads very rapidly in countries with 
a damp, equable climate and a temperature of 80 to 
90 F. Very high or very low temperatures and 
a dry atmosphere are inimical to its extension. 

Symptoms. Tinea imbricata is easily recog- 
nized. At first it may be confined to one or two 
spots on the surface of the body ; usually, in a short 
time, it comes to occupy a very large area. It does 
not generally affect the soles and palms, although 
it may do so; nor is the scalp a favourite site. 
Baker, confirmed by Tribondeau, remarks that it 
avoids the crutch, the axillae, and, contrary to Cas- 
tellani's experience, the nails. With these excep- 
tions it may, and commonly does, sweep over and 
keep its hold on nearly the entire surface of the 
body ; so that after a year or two a large part of 
the skin is covered with the dry, tissue-paper-like 
scales, arranged in more or less confused systems of 
concentric parallel lines, absolutely characteristic of 
the disease. 

An inoculation experiment readily explains the 
production of the scales, their concentric parallel ar- 
rangement, and the mode of extension of the patches. 
About ten days after the successful inoculation of a 
healthy skin with tinea imbricata, the epidermis at 
the seat of inoculation is seen to be very slightly 




Tinea imbricata. 

PLATE XV. 



XLVI] TINEA IMBRICATA 889 

raised and to have a brownish tinge. Presently the 
centre of this brownish patch perhaps a quarter of 
an inch in diameter gives way and a ring of scaling 
epidermis, attached at the periphery, but free, ragged, 
and slightly elevated towards the centre of the spot, 
is formed. In a few days this ring of epidermis has 
extended so as to include a larger area. A second 
brown spot then appears at the site of the first brown 
spot and in the centre of the primary scaling, expanding 
ring. This second spot, in its turn, gives way, pro- 
ducing a second and similar scaling ring, which also 
expands, following the first ring in its extension. Later 
a third and fourth ring form in the same way ; and so 
on, until a large area of skin is covered with one or 
more systems of concentric parallel scaling rings, 
which follow each other over the surface of the body 
like the concentric ripples produced by a stone falling 
into a pool of water. 

The scales, if not broken by rubbing, may attain 
considerable length and breadth ; but, of course, their 
dimensions are in a measure determined by the amount 
of friction they are subjected to. Usually they are 
largest between the shoulders that is, where the 
patient has a difficulty in scratching himself. The 
lines of scales are from | J in. apart. The hair of 
the scalp is not injured. 

The I ii n ^ us. On detaching a scale and placing 
it under the microscope, after moistening with liquor 
potassse, a trichophy ton-like fungus can be seen in 
enormous profusion. The parasite evidently lies be- 
tween epidermis and rete, and by its abundance 
causes the. former to peel up. As the fungus does 
not die out in the skin travelled over, it burrows 
under the young epithelium almost as soon as the 
latter is reproduced. Hence the peculiar concentric 
scaling and the persistency of the disease throughout 
the area involved. When the scales are washed off 
by the vigorous use of soft soap and hot water, the 
surface of the skin is seen to be covered with parallel 
lines of a brownish colour evidently the slightly 
pigmented fungus proliferating and advancing under 
the young epidermis. Tribondeau, on the evidence 



890 DISEASES OF THE SKIN [CHAP. 

of finding fructification in one of his attempts at 
culture, pronounces the fungus to be a lepidophytoii 
and not a trichophyton. Castellani has succeeded in 
cultivating the true parasite ; this he has proved by 
the reproduction of the characteristic skin lesions 
by inoculation of his cultures. He considers that 
in tinea imbricata we have to deal with at least two 
distinct species, which he has named Endermophyton 
concentricum and E. indicum. Castellani obtained 
cultures by immersing imbricata scales in alcohol for 
five to ten minutes and then placing them in tubes of 
glucose broth one scale in each tube. Usually most 
of the tubes become contaminated with bacteria, but 
a few remain clear ; in the latter, in five to ten days, 
fine white threads may be seen spreading from the 
scales. In three to four weeks, if portions of this are 
transferred to solid agar media, characteristic cultures 
can be obtained, and are inoculable into the human 
subject. 

Diagnosis. From ordinary ringworm tinea 
imbricata is easily distinguished by the absence of 
marked inflammation or congestion of the rings, by 
the abundance of the fungus, by the large size of 
the scales, by the concentric arrangement of the 
many rings or systems of rings, by the non-impli- 
cation of the hair, and, according to Baker, by the 
avoidance of crutch and axillae. From ichthyosis 
it is distinguished by the concentric arrangement 
of the scaling, by the peripheral attachment of the 
scales, and by the presence of abundant fungus 
elements. 

Treatment. The best treatment for tinea im- 
bricata in natives is the free application of strong 
linimentum iodi. Limited patches might be treated 
with chrysophanic acid ointment (20 gr. to the ounce) 
or by rubbing with the bruised leaves of Cassia alata. 
Paranhos and Leme recommend a tepid alkaline bath 
of sodium bicarbonate (1 kilogramme to 20 litres of 
water), followed by the application of ocalia perdi- 
ceps 50 grm., glacial acetic acid 15 grm., macerated 
for two days in glycerinated water (10 per cent.) 
985 grm., and then filtered. Sulphur ointment, or 



XLVI] PINTA 891 

sulphur fumes, act very slowly and unsatisfactorily. 
Clothes should be boiled or burned. 

Prophylaxis. Daniels informs me that tinea 
imbricate is a comparatively rare disease in Tonga. 
This circumstance the natives attribute to their cus- 
tom of oiling the body. Daniels remarks that of late 
years, since the Fijians adopted the same prac- 
tice, the disease has become somewhat less preva- 
lent among them. Personal cleanliness, and the 
immediate and active treatment of any scaling 
spot, should be carefully practised in the endemic 
countries. 

In Tahiti the use of chrysophanic acid is now 
general among the natives; as a consequence the 
disease is not so prevalent there as it was only a 
few years ago. 

PINTA 

Definition. An epiphytic disease characterized 
by peculiar pigmented patches on the skin. 

Geographical distribution. In certain dis- 
tricts in tropical America, especially along the river 
banks in Mexico, Central America, Venezuela, Co- 
lombia, Bolivia, and one or two places in Peru, Chile, 
and Brazil the district between the Juciparana and 
the Santo Antonio rivers (Magalhaes, private letter) 
there occurs an epiphytic skin disease characterized 
by peculiar red, or blue, or black, or white piebald 
spotting of the skin of a part, or of the whole, of the 
body. The patient emits an offensive odour, some- 
times compared to that of a mangy dog or of dirty 
linen. Desquamation and itching of the patches are 
also features of the disease. It entails no constitu- 
tional disturbance and no danger to life. Like 
other epiphytic diseases, want of personal cleanliness 
has a great deal to do with the prevalence of pinta in 
the districts mentioned, for it is rare in cleanly 
whites or well-to-do negroes ; the dirty Indians and 
the poor half-castes are those most frequently affected. 
In some districts it occurs in nearly a tenth part 
of the inhabitants, in others nearly the entire popula- 
tion is affected. Lately a somewhat similar disease 



892 DISEASES OF THE SKIN [CHAP. 

has been seen in North Africa,* in Egypt, and 
possibly in the Malay Peninsula. 

Symptoms. Pinta commences at one or two 
points, the rest of the surface of the skin becoming 
infected in turn by extension or by auto-contagion. 
At first the hands, or face, or some other exposed 
parts, are attacked. The original patch may be white, 
red, blue, or black. It gradually increases in size, be- 
coming scurfy and itchy, particularly when the surface 
is warm. As the patches spread they assume a variety 
of shapes. Fresh spots appear in the neighbourhood 
of the parent spots, into which, in course of time, they 
tend to merge ; so that ultimately large patches of 
discoloured skin are formed. The palms of the hands 
and the soles of the feet are not attacked. On the 
scalp becoming affected the hair turns white and thin, 
and ultimately falls out. When fully developed, the 
disease produces a very grotesque appearance. It is 
probable that the white patches in a proportion of 
cases are not epiphytic, as they neither itch nor 
desquamate ; very likely they are ordinary leuco- 
dermia, possibly brought about through disturbance of 
the natural pigmentation by a parasite which had 
subsequently died out. Sensation and the glandular 
functions of the skin are not affected. In conse- 
quence of the scratching, the implicated parts may 
become cracked or ulcerated. 

Two types of the disease have been named the 
superficial epidermic and the deep epidermic ; the 
former being represented by black and blue patches 

* It is difficult from his description to determine the exact 
nature of the disease alluded to by Legrain. It commences with 
pronounced fever lasting for one week, and is followed by malaise 
persisting for several weeks. This is followed by itching and, by 
and by, by furfuraceous desquamation of the itching parts and 
gradually developed achromia. He positively affirms that the 
disease is not ordinary vitiligo. He also says he has seen in 
Tripoli a coloured skin affection with the clinical features of true 
pinta occurring in little epidemics in particular houses. The 
results of microscopical examinations of scrapings of the affected 
skin were negative. Possibly this is the disease referred to in the 
Journ. of Trap. Med., Nov., 1899, by Sandwith, as having been 
seen by him in Egypt. Varieties of pityriasis versicolor, such as 
Castellani has described in Ceylon, may have been mistaken 
sometimes for true pinta. 



XLVI] PINTA 893 

which spread rapidly ; the latter including the red 
and white patches, apparently involving the rete and 
deeper layers of the epidermis, spreading more slowly, 
and, at the same time, being more difficult to cure. 
The various forms and colours may concur in the 
same individual ; but a given patch, once established, 
does not change colour. 

Pinta is contagious. It attacks both sexes and any 
age. Unless properly treated it may last for years. 

Pathology. If one of the scales is moistened 
with liquor potassse and placed under the microscope, 
black spores and a white, highly refracting mycelium 
are found. The spores are round or oval, measuring 
8 p. to 12 fj. in diameter. Abundant pigment is seen 
floating in a yellowish fluid in the interior of the 
spore. The mycelial filaments are short, non-branch- 
ing, tapering from a broad base to a blunt point by 
which each filament is attached to a single spore, like 
the stalk to a cherry. The mycelium measures from 
18 fj. to 20 p in length by 2 /i in breadth. The differ- 
ences in the colour of the patches probably depend 
on differences in the pigmentation, or kind, of the 
fungus. Such is Gastambide's description of the para- 
site a description which, to some extent, is borne 
out by Osborne Browne. 

Montoya y Florez has published an elaborate and 
careful description of the disease and of the various 
mycotic growths he found in the several varieties of 
pinta which he studied. He says that he has never 
seen a fungus answering to Gastambide's description. 
On placing the scales moistened with liquor potassse 
under the microscope, long dichotomous filaments, 
generally very fine and cylindrical, in certain con- 
ditions granular and beaded, are seen. In places this 
mycelium forms a dense network. Here and there 
veritable ropes of mycelium are visible, or broad, 
short filaments with fructification characteristic of 
the particular variety of the disease may be detected 
(Fig. 207), He has succeeded in cultivating the 
various fungi, which apparently belong to a plurality 
of genera Penicillium, Aspergillus, Manilla. 

Diagnosis. This disease is readily diagnosed 



8D4 DISEASES OF THE SKIN [CHAP. 



::"* 




Fig. 207. Fructification of cryptogamic epiphytes in pinta. (After 

Montoya y Florez.) 
, Red pinta ; B, dark violet pinta ; c, grey-violet pinta ; D, blue pinta. 



XLVI] PIEDRA 895 

from leprosy by the absence of anaesthesia in the 
patches, and by the colour of the spots ; from ery- 
thrasma, from ringworm, and from pityriasis versi- 
color by the colour, and by the microscopic characters 
of the fungus. 

Treatment. Chrysophanic acid, preparations of 
sulphur, strong liniment of iodine, and other epiphy- 
ticides are indicated. Cleanliness and the destruc- 
tion of old clothes are indispensable. 

PIEDRA 

This peculiar disease of the hair is very common 
in certain districts of Colombia, South America. So 
far as is known, it is confined to the inhabitants of 
that country, of whom a considerable proportion, 
both male and female, and apparently belonging to 
all the races represented there, are affected. 

According to Juhel-Renoy, whose observations 
practically coincide with the earlier accounts by 
Desenne, Cheadle, Morris, and others, the hairs of the 
affected scalp are dotted over at irregular intervals 
with numerous twenty-three in a hair 60 cm. in 
length minute, gritty nodosities. These, barely 
visible to the naked eye, are distinctly perceptible 
to the touch when the hair is drawn between finger 
and thumb. The affected hairs are bent and twisted, 
and tend to produce matting and knotting. The 
little nodosities, which, though very firm, are not so 
hard as the name piedra (a stone) would indicate, 
being easily cut through with a sharp knife or 
scissors, are paler than the hair which they sur- 
round, or partly surround, like a sheath. When a 
comb is drawn through the hair a sort of crepitation 
is produced, doubtless by the friction against the 
hard particles. 

Under the microscope these excrescences are 
found to consist of a number of spore-like bodies, 
easily made apparent by soaking the hair in liquor 
potassse after washing in ether. The spores (which 
are twice the size of trichophyton spores and re- 
markably refringent) from mutual pressure are poly- 
hedral, and together form a sort of tessellated mosaic, 



896 DISEASES OF THE SKIN [CHAP. 

the elements of which seem to be held together by 
a greenish soluble cement in which a number of 
minute bacteria-like rods are incorporated. The shaft 
of the hair not eroded or affected in any way can 
be seen intact through the encrusting fungus. 

Piedra is supposed by some to be induced by the 
mucilaginous hair applications in vogue among the 
Colombians. Although Juhel-Renoy has given to it 
the name " trichomycose nodulaire," it must not be 
confounded with th:j trichomycosis nodosa of Paterson 
(the leptothrix of Wilson), which is quite a different 
affection and common enough on the axillary, scrotal, 
and face hair in Europe and elsewhere. Neither 
must it be confounded with trichorexis nodosa, a 




Fig. 208. Chigger (Dermatophilus penetrans). (Blanchard.) 

non-parasitic disease of the hair-shaft, which is split 
up at different points into brush-like bundles of fibres 
and is thus easily fractured ; nor with moniliform hair 
(monilethrix, Crocker), a congenital, hereditary, and 
also non-parasitic disease. 

Treatment. Cleanliness, the free use of soap, 
and the application of some epiphyticide should suffice 
for cure. Should such means fail, doubtless shaving 
the scalp would be effectual. 

4. SKIN DISEASES CAUSED BY ANIMALS 

THE CHIGGER, OB SAND FLEA (DERMATOPHILUS 

PENETRANS) 

This insect, formerly confined to the tropical parts 
of America (30 N. to 30 S.) and to the West Indies, 



XLVI] THE CHIGGER 897 

appeared on the West Coast of Africa for the first 
time about the year 1872. Since that date it has 
spread all over the tropical parts of that continent 
and even to some of the adjacent islands Madagascar 
for example. As a cause of suffering, invaliding, and 
indirectly of death, it is an insect of some importance. 
It is now extremely prevalent on the East Coast of 
Africa, and is causing a large amount of invaliding 
amongst the Indian coolies there, by whom it has 
been introduced into India. 

The chigger (Fig. 208) is not unlike the common flea 
(Ptilex irritans] both in appearance and, with one exception, in 
habit. It is somewhat smaller in size 1 mm., the head being 
proportionately larger and the abdomen deeper than in the 
latter insect. In colour it is red or reddish brown. Like the 




Fig. 209. Chigger : impregnated female. (Blanchard.) 

flea, its favourite haunt is dry, sandy soil, the dust and ashes 
in badly kept native huts, the stables of cattle, poultry pens, 
and the like. It greedily attacks all warm-blooded animals, 
including birds and man. Until impregnated, the female, like 
the male, is free, feeding intermittently as opportunity offers. 
So soon as she becomes impregnated she avails herself of the 
first animal she encounters to burrow diagonally into its skin, 
where, being well nourished by the blood, she proceeds to 
ovulation. By the end of this process her abdomen, in conse- 
quence of the growth of the eggs it contains, has attained the 
size of a small pea (Fig. 209). The first anterior and the 
two posterior segments do not participate in the enlargement, 
the latter acting as a plug to the little hole made by the animal 
when she entered the skin. When theova are mature they 
are expelled and fall on the ground. In a short time a 
thirteen-ringed larva is hatched out from each egg. This 
larva presently encloses itself in a cocoon, from which, in eight 
or ten days, the perfect insect emerges. 

During her gestation the ckigger causes a con- 
siderable amount of irritation. In consequence of 

2D 



898 DISEASES OF THE SKIN [CHAP. 

this, pus forms around her distended abdomen, which 
now raises the inflamed integument into a pea-like 
elevation. After the eggs are laid (according to some, 
before this process) the superjacent skin ulcerates and 
the chigger is expelled, leaving a small sore which, if 




i 




Fig. 210. Chiggers in sole of foot. (From a photograph by Daniels.) 

infected by any pathogenic micro-organism, as the 
bacterium of phagedaena or of tetanus, may lead to 
grave consequences. 

Naturally, being nearest the ground, the feet are the 
parts most commonly infested by chiggers. The soles 
of the feet (Fig. 210), the skin between the toes, and that 
at the roots of the nails are favourite situations. 



XLVl] 



THE CHIGGER 



899 



Other parts of the body are by no means exempt ; the 
scrotum, penis, the skin around the anus, the thighs, and 
even the hands (Fig. 211) and face, are often attacked. 
Usually only one or two chiggers are found at a 
time ; occasionally they are present in hundreds, 
the little pits left after their extraction being some- 
times so closely set that parts of the surface may look 
like a honeycomb. 




Fig. 211. Chigger lesions of hands and feet. (From a photograph 
by Daniels.) 

Treatment. In chigger regions, houses, parti- 
cularly the ground floors, must be frequently swept 
and accumulation of dust and debris be prevented. 
The housing of cattle, pigs, and poultry must be 
similarly attended to. The floors should be sprinkled 
often with carbolic water, pyrethrum powder, or 
similar insecticide, and walking barefooted must be 
avoided. Bathing must be practised daily, and any 
chiggers that may have fastened themselves on the 



900 



DISEASES OF THE SKIN 



[CHAP. 

skin at once removed. They may be killed by prick- 
ing them with a needle, or by the application of 
chloroform, turpentine, mercurial ointment, or similar 
means, after which they are expelled by ulceration. 
The best treatment, however, is not to wait for ulcer- 




TERZI 



Fig. 212. Chrysomyia macellaria, female. 



ation, but to enlarge the orifice of entrance with a 
sharp, clean needle and neatly to enucleate the insect 
entire. Some native women, from long practice, are 
experts at this little operation. The part must be 




Fig. 213. Chrysomyia macellaria, larva. 

dressed antiseptically and protected until healed. 
Europeans living in an endemic district should wear 
high boots. A daily inspection of the feet, especially 
under the nails, is advisable. Should any black dot 
be discovered, the chigger should be removed at once. 



XLVI] CHRYSOMYIA MACELLARIA 901 

MYIASIS 

THE SCREWWORM (Chrysomyia macellaria) 

This is the larva of a dipterous insect (Fig. 212) common 
in certain parts (especially the tropics) of America, from 
Canada to Patagonia. The insect (9-10 mm. long) lays a mass 







ana frontal 



Fig. 214. Native with Chrysomyia macellaria in nostrils ana 
sinuses ; early stage. (From a photograph by Daniels.) 

of three or four hundred eggs on the surface of wounds, and in 
the ears and nasal fossae (Fig. 214) of persons sleeping in the 
open air, especially of those having offensive discharges, which 
attract the fly. From these eggs the larvae are hatched in a few 
hours. The larvae (Fig. 213) are white, about three-quarters 
of an inch in length, and formed of twelve segments carrying 
circles of minute spirally arranged spines which give the 



902 



DISEASES OF THE SKIN [CHAP. 



creature a screw-like appearance ; hence the vulgar name. 
They burrow in the tissues, devouring the mucous membrane, 
muscles, cartilages, periosteum, and even the bones, thereby 
causing terrible sores, and not infrequently particularly when 
they attack the ear or nasal fossae, by penetrating to the brain 




TERZI. 

Fig. 215. Dermatobia cyaniventris, female. 

death. Of 1 3 cases collected by Laboulbene 9 proved fatal ; 
of 31 collected by Mai Hard 21 died. 

If treated properly and in time by injections of chloroform, 
carbolic acid, turpentine, infusion of pyrethrum, and similar 
substances, the patient may be saved ; neglected, he will most 





Fig. 216. Dermatobia 

cyaniventris, larva, early 

stage. (Blanchard.) 



m 

Fig. 216A. Dermatobia cyaniventris, larva, 
later stage. (After Braver.) 



probably die. If necessary the frontal sinuses, the antrum, 
and other bony cavities must be opened to secure the expulsion 
of the larvae. 

In countries where this pest occurs bloody and offensive dis- 
charges from the nostrils should be carefully investigated, and, 
if found to be caused by the screwworm, vigorously treated. 



XLVlJ 



MYIASIS 



903 



VER MACAQUE (Dermatobia cyaniventris) 

This is the larva of an American fly (Fig. 215) the identity 
of which, until it was studied by Blanchard, was doubtful. 

At an early stage the larva has the appearance represented 
by Fig. 216; at a later stage, that represented by Fig. 216A. 
The former stage of the larva is called ver macaque ; the 
latter, much larger, torcel or berne. At one time these two 
larval stages of the same insect were erroneously supposed to 
belong to different species. 

Dermatobia cyaniventris measures from 14 to 16 mm. in 
length ; it has a yellow head with very prominent brown eyes ; 




Pig. 217. Janthinosoma lutzi. (By courtesy of the Tropical Diseases 
Bureau.) 

the thorax is of a greyish colour, the abdomen of a dark 
metallic blue. It is widely distributed throughout tropical 
America, being especially common near wooded lands. It 
attacks the most diverse animals. Commonly it is found in 
cattle, pigs, and dogs, but it occurs in the agouti, in the jaguar, 
in various monkeys, and in birds. It is rare in the mule, and 
writers have commented upon its absence from the horse. In 
man it has been reported from various regions of the body, 
namely, head, arm, back, abdomen, scrotum, buttocks, thigh, 
axilla. Its presence is accompanied by excruciating pains, 
especially at those times when the larva is moving. 

Blanch ard, Surcouf, and Zepeda have recently thrown a 
curious light on the way in which this myiasis is acquired. 
It would appear that on attaining maturity Dermatobia cyani- 



904 



DISEASES OF THE SKIN [CHAP. 



ventris lays its eggs on damp leaves in damp places, the haunts 
of a certain species of mosquito, Janthinosoma lutzi (Fig. 217). 
The packets of eggs are enclosed in a cement which on be- 
coming softened by moisture adheres to the mosquito's thorax, 
and the eggs are thus conveyed to man or other vertebrate 
when the mosquito next proceeds to feed. 




Fig. 218. Cordylobia anthropophaga. 

It is supposed that when hatched out the larvae penetrate 
the skin and produce an inflamed swelling about the aperture 
of entrance, from which a seropurulent fluid, containing the 
black faeces of the larva, exudes. Depied says that he has 
twice encountered this larva in the scalp of Tonquinese. 




Fig. 219. Cordylobia anthropophaga, larva. 



YER DU GAYOR (Cordylobia anthropophaga) 

Synonym. Ochromyia anthropophaga. 

Cordylobia anthropophaga (Fig. 218) measures from 8'5 to 
11*5 mm. in length. It is of a yellowish-grey colour, with 
black spots on the abdomen. It was first reported from Cayor, 
Senegambia, but it is probably widely distributed in tropical 
Africa. The larva (Fig. 219) burrows into the skin of man 



XLVIJ MYIASIS 905 

and beast, and produces a small inflamed swelling, from which 
it emerges in from six to seven days. 

In Africa, and in many other parts of the tropical world, 
similar anthropophagous larvae, which, however, have not 
yet been satisfactorily identified, are frequently encountered. 
According to Griinberg all these larvae belong to one species 
Cordylolia anthropophaga ; on the other hand, Gedoelst dis- 
tinguishes four different species Ochromyia anthropophaga, 
Ben g alia depressa (widely distributed), Cordylobia anthropo- 
phaga (German East Africa), and a larva of undetermined 
species Lund's" larva (Congo Free State). 

AUCHMEHOMYIA LUTEOLA (Fabricius, 1805) 

Synonym. Musca luteola. 

History. Auchmeromyia luteola was first described by 
Fabricius in 1805 under the name of Musca luteola. In 
January, 1904, Captain Lelean described and figured this fly, 
which he had collected and reared from the larva while on 
service with the Anglo-French Boundary Commission in 
Northern Nigeria. He stated that the larva occurs as a 
cutaneous parasite on natives near Sokoto. In July of the 
same year, at the Oxford meeting of the British Medical 
Association, Button, Todd and Christy gave a more detailed 
account of the life habits of this dipterous insect, and pointed 
out that in its larval stage it is a keen blood-sucker, and is 
known throughout the Congo as the " Congo floor maggot." 

Geographical distribution. Auchmeromyia 
luteola is widely distributed throughout tropical Africa. On 
the "West Coast it ranges from Northern Nigeria to Natal. 
Button, Todd and Christy found it all over the Lutete and sur- 
rounding districts, and at Leopold ville. They were told that 
it is common at San Salvador in Portuguese territory, on the 
Congo at Matadi in the cataract region, and at Tchumbiri, 
150 miles above Stanley Pool. An intelligent native from 
Lake Tchad informed them that it was common in Western 
Tchad regions. It was found by Neave in the Soudan. 

Specific diagnosis (Fig. 220). The fly measures 
from 10 to 12 mm. in length, and its body is rather stoutly built. 
The general colour is orange-buff, but numerous small black 
hairs give it a smoky appearance. The head is large, with eyes 
well separated in both sexes. The thorax shows two indistinct, 
dark, longitudinal stripes, which do not reach its posterior 
border. The abdomen differs in the two sexes, the second 
segment in the female being twice the length of the same 
segment in the male. The first segment has a narrow dark 
stripe on its hind margin in both sexes ; the second segment 
in the male is marked by a broader band, tapering forwards 
along the middle line to the base of the segment. In the 
female the dark band is so wide that it occupies almost 
the whole segment. The third segment is almost entirely 
black in both sexes. The fourth is dark at the base and 
lighter posteriorly. The legs are the same colour as the rest 

2D* 



906 



DISEASES OF THE SKIN [CHAF. 



of the body. The first larsal joint is jet black, and stands 
out prominently against the large cream- white pulvillus. The 
wings are of a smoky-brown colour with conspicuous venation. 
The larva (Fig. 221) is of a dirty-white colour and semi- 
translucent. It consists of eleven distinct segments, and when 
fully grown measures about 15 mm. in length. The central pait 




Fig. 220. Auchraeromyia luteola, female. 

of the ventral surface is flattened. At the posterior margin 
of each segment are three short limbs transversely arranged 
and provided with spines directed backwards. These enable 
the maggot to move about caterpillar-like and fairly rapidly. 
Laterally the segments bear two or more irregular protuber- 
ances, each of which has a posteriorly directed spine and a 




IB 

Fig. 221 . - Auchmeromyia luteola, larva. 

small pit. The anterior segment is roughly conical, and 
bears the mouth, which is placed between two black hooks 
protruding from its apex and curved backwards towards the 
ventral surface of the body. Paired groups of minute teeth 
are placed around the two hooks so as to form a sort of 
cupping apparatus. The last segment is larger, depressed, and 
turned upwards at an angle of about 45 degrees with the rest 
of the body ; two spiracles open on its dorsal surface, which 
is surrounded by spines. The anus is placed in the anterior 



XLVI] LEECHES 907 

portion of its ventral surface, and behind it are two prominent 
spines. The alimentary canal commences with a short oeso- 
phagus, which ends in a proventriculus. A remarkable dorsal 
diverticulum, corresponding to the food reservoir of the 
muscid larva, opens into the oesophagus near its anterior end. 
After the larva has fed, the diverticulum is a very con- 
spicuous object, being seen through the semitransparent body 
wall as a bright-red area, extending, when full of blood, from 
the head to about the fifth segment. The midgut is short; the 
hindgut is long, much coiled, and occupies the greater part of 
the body cavity. The maggot has a thick integument, which 
enables it to withstand a good deal of pressure without injury. 

The duration of the larval period has not been determined. 
When ready to pupate, the larva selects a suitable spot and 
lies dormant. The puparium is a dark reddish-brown oblong 
body, measuring 9-10 5 mm. in length by 4-5 mm. in breadth. 
The anterior end is roughly conical ; the posterior is rounded. 
The pupa stage lasts from two to three weeks. 

The fly is usually found sitting motionless amongst the 
thatch, beams, and cobwebs of the walls and roofs of native 
huts, but it is very difficult to see on account of its protective 
colouring, which corresponds exactly with the smoke-stained 
straw and rafters. It never bites, is usually silent, and deposits 
its eggs in the dust-filled cracks and crevices of the mud-floors 
of the huts, particularly in spots where urine has been voided. 

The larvae are found especially under the mats on which 
the natives sleep, in the floor crevices, and in moist soft 
earth at a depth of 3 in. or more. According to Bentley, as 
many as fifty could sometimes be found beneath a single 
mattress. They feed mainly or entirely at night, and they drop 
off at once if the limb on which they are feeding is moved. 
Those who sleep on beds or raised platforms are not attacked 
as a rule unless the bed be low, when the maggot may reach 
the occupant by crawling 1 up either the supports or the grass 
wall against which the bed is usually placed. The natives 
state that the maggot is able to jump to a height of 18 in., 
but this is unlikely. 

LEECHES 

In the grass and jungle lands of many tropical 
and sub-tropical countries land-leeches, probably of 
special species, often occur in great abundance ; so 
much so that in some circumstances they may prove 
to be something more than a nuisance. The Hcema- 
dipsa ceylonica is one of the most active, as well as 
best known, of these. Before feeding, when out- 
stretched, it is about an inch in length and about 
the thickness of a knitting-needle. It clings to a leaf 
or twig, awaiting the passing of some animal, on to 



908 DISEASES OF THE SKIN 

which it springs with remarkable activity. It at once 
attaches itself to the skin, and proceeds to make a 
meal on the blood. Animals are sometimes killed in 
this way; men even have been known to succumb 
to the repeated small bleedings by these pests. It is 
necessary, therefore, when passing through jungle 
hinds in which leeches abound, to have the feet and 
legs carefully protected. The bite is not infrequently 
the starting-point of a troublesome sore. 

In the south of Europe and in the north of Africa 
the horse-leech, Hcetnopis sanguisuga, sometimes gets 
into the gullet and nostrils of men as well as of ani- 
mals. It has occasionally caused death by entering 
and occluding the air-passages. In Formosa I heard 
of and saw several instances of a similar form of 
parasitism, both in men and in monkeys. To what 
particular species the leech in these cases belonged I 
do not know. Doubtless, when very young the leeches 
were taken in uiiperceived with foul drinking-water, 
and, wandering round the soft palate, found their way 
into the nose. Occasionally, in the cases I refer to, 
the animals would protrude from the nares and 
wander over the upper lip. For a long time they con- 
trived to elude all attempts at capture. By dipping 
the face in cold water they could generally be per- 
suaded to show themselves. In one instance the 
leech dropped out spontaneously. In another an 
American naturalist who had been travelling much 
in the interior of Formosa, and who had suffered 
from severe headache and profound anaemia, the re- 
sults of repeated epistaxis I succeeded in removing 
the leech by attaching through a speculum a spring 
forceps to its hinder end, and afterwards injecting 
salt and water. It would be well, therefore, to bear 
in mind that in tropical countries persistent head- 
ache, associated with recurring epistaxis, may be 
caused by a leech in the nostril. 



Section VIL ACKEE POISONING 

CHAPTER XLVII 
THE VOMITING SICKNESS OF JAMAICA 

AN acute and very fatal condition locally termed 
" the vomiting sickness " has been known for many 
years in Jamaica. It is found principally in rural 
districts and occurring in what were regarded as 
circumscribed epidemics. Until quite recently its 
causation and nature were neither apprehended 
nor understood, although several Commissions had 
attempted their elucidation. To Dr. Harold Scott 
belongs the merit of clearing up the mystery, and 
indicating simple and practicable methods of pre- 
vention, which, if given effect to, must avert a con- 
siderable mortality, particularly among children. 

The vomiting sickness is confined to the West 
India Islands, and practically to Jamaica, and occurs 
principally during the cooler months November to 
April. 

Symptoms.. A previously healthy child suddenly 
complains of abdominal discomfort, vomits several 
times, and apparently recovers, perhaps falling asleep. 
Three or four hours later, vomiting now of a cere- 
bral type recurs. Within a very short time, a few 
minutes perhaps, convulsions and coma supervene, 
and death follows on an average about twelve hours 
from the oncoming of the initial vomiting. The case- 
mortality amounts to 80-90 per cent. In those who 
recover, convalescence is complete in twenty-four 
hours. 

During the attack the temperature is normal or 
subnormal, rarely rising to 101; the pulse is 90 to 
100; the respirations are 26 to 30, sometimes, as death 
909 



910 THE VOMITING SICKNESS 

approaches, being of the Oheyne-Stokes type. The 
pupils are slightly dilated and, until near the end, 
react to light, etc. Unless during the convulsive 
seizures, there is no muscular rigidity. Post-mortem 
examination reveals hypersemia of .viscera with a 
tendency to minute interstitial haemorrhages, together 
with marked fatty changes, especially in the liver 
and the kidneys, and sometimes to a less degree in 
the pancreas and heart-muscle. 

Etiology.- Scott has shown, on what must be 
regarded as convincing evidence clinical, seasonal, 
epidemiological, and experimental that the vomiting 
sickness is really the result of poisoning by a fruit, 
much used by negroes in Jamaica, called ackee, the 
fruit of Blighia sapida, a tree very common in the 
island. When mature and in good condition this 
fruit is wholesome enough, but if gathered before it 
is quite ripe and before it has opened while on the 
tree, or if gathered from an injured branch, or opened 
after falling on the ground, it is poisonous. It would 
appear that the poisonous element in the immature 
and unsound fruit is soluble in water, for the " pot 
water " in which the ackees have been cooked is 
much more toxic than the cooked fruit ; and, further, 
that the poison is precipitated by alcohol. 

Treatment. An emetic, and washing out the 
stomach with an alcoholic fluid during the primary 
vomiting, seem to be indicated. 



Section VIII. LOCAL DISEASES OF 

UNCERTAIN NATURE 

CHAPTER XLVIII 

CRAW-CRAW CH APPA CLIMATIC BUBO 
GOUNDOU AINHUM BIG HEEL ONYALAI 

CRAW-CRAW AND ULCERATING DERMATITIS 

MOST itching papular and pustular eruptions are 
termed kra-kra by the natives of the West Coast of 
Africa. Dr. John O'Neil describes under this name 
a pustular affection which he says is common in cer- 
tain parts of the West Coast, and which he found 
to be associated with the presence of a filariform 
parasite in the papules. O'Neil says that this form 
of craw-craw resembles scabies; but he adds that 
symptoms subside in a cooler climate, to return, 
however, when the negro revisits the hot and damp 
atmosphere of his native country. The papules occur 
all over the limbs and body, either singly or in rings. 
In two days from its appearance the papule, he says, 
becomes a vesicle, and in two more a pustule. 

On paring off the top of the papule with a sharp 
knife, and teasing up the little piece of integument 
in water, he found a number of minute filaria-like 
organisms wriggling about with great activity. Their 
activity speedily slowed down, and in a short time the 
worms died. These organisms, according to O'Neil's 
drawings and description, resemble somewhat mf. 
bancrofti. The measurements, however, do not quite 
correspond, the craw-craw filaria being shorter and 
broader ( T ^ in. by ^oW i n -) than nif. bancrofti; 
moreover, unlike the latter, it presented two black 
911 



912 CRAW-CRAW [CHAP. 

markings at the cephalic end. He says that if the 
section of the papule be made sufficiently deep, five or 
six of these parasites may be seen in a field. 

Craw-craw is said to be contagious. It appears 
after an incubation period of three days, and is not 
curable by sulphur inunction. 

O'Neil's observations have not been confirmed. I 
think it is quite possible that the parasite he found 
was one of the several blood filarise we now know 
to be so common on the West Coast of Africa. It 
is comprehensible that, in a country in which mf. 
perstans occurs in every second individual, it would 
be frequently found in such preparations as O'Neil ex- 
amined. The removal of the top of a scabies or other 
papule would certainly be attended with some degree 
of haemorrhage ; in which case, should the patient 
chance to be the subject of any form of filarial in- 
fection, microfilarise would be found in the prepara- 
tion. Immersion in water would, as in the case of 
O'Neil's parasite, quickly kill the parasites. I do 
not wish to assert that O'Neil's parasite was mf. 
perstans, but the possibility of this must not be 
overlooked. 

A disease resembling O'Neil's craw-craw was de- 
scribed some time ago by Prof. Nielly under the title 
dermatose parasitaire. A French lad, who had never 
been abroad, became affected with a papulo- vesicular 
itching eruption resembling scabies, in which Nielly 
found a filariform parasite somewhat like that dis- 
covered by O'Neil in craw-craw. It had the same 
peculiar cephalic markings ; in addition, it had a 
well-defined alimentary canal and rudimentary organs 
of generation. Nielly found nematode embryos in 
the blood in this case; so that we are justified in 
believing that the parasite in the skin was an ad- 
vanced developmental form of the embryo in the 
blood, and that both were the progeny of a mature 
parental worm living somewhere in the tissues. 
Possibly Nielly's dermatose parasitaire and O'Neil's 
craw-craw were of the same nature. 

Symptoms. The term craw-craw is very loosely 
applied. Emily has described under this name a 



'XLVIII] CHAPPA 913 

papulo-pustular skin affection which is common in cer- 
tain parts of tropical Africa, and is often the cause 
of much suffering to the traveller. It, or a similar 
disease, is by no means confined to Africa, for I 
have seen it in patients from India, and was at one 
time very familiar with it in South China. At the 
earliest stage the disease begins as an itching papule, 
very possibly at the seat of a mosquito bite. The 
itching provokes scratching, whereby some form of 
pyogenic micro-organism is inoculated. Pustulation 
follows, and is spread over feet and legs by soiled 
shoes and stockings and auto-inoculation. In this 
way an ulcerating, pustulating dermatitis is kept up. 
Cantlie's "foot tetter" is of this nature. The veld 
sore of South Africa and the "Barcoo rot" of Aus- 
tralia, if not the same, are similar diseases. 

Treatment. ;Emily describes a very efficient 
treatment. Pustules are opened, crusts removed, and 
ulcers scraped. Boric-acid powder is then dusted 
freely on the parts after a thorough scrubbing with 
sublimate lotion (1-1,000), boricated vaseline applied 
on lint, and over all absorbent cotton and a bandage. 
The dressings are not disturbed for a week, when 
the parts will be found soundly healed. Such and 
similar auto-infective diseases of the hands and feet, 
so common in the tropics, I used to treat with a 
foot-bath of warm carbolic-acid lotion (1-20), followed 
by dry dressing with abundance of boric-acid powder, 
at the same time insisting on destruction of infected 
slippers, shoes, and stockings. 

CHAPPA 

Under the name "chappa" Read describes a 
disease which he has met with in the western 
district of the colony of Lagos. During two and a 
half years he has seen six examples, two in males, 
four in females. He thus describes it : 

"The patients all give the same history. The disease com- 
mences with severe pains in the limbs, muscles, and joints. 
After a few months the pain decreases, and some joints begin 
to swell and convey the sense of fluctuation. About the 
same time nodules develop in different parts of the body. 
These nodules are in the subcutaneous tissue, and are about 



914 CLIMATIC BUBO [CHAP. 

the size of a pigeon's egg. After a time, without the forma- 
tion of an abscess, the skin over the nodule ulcerates and 
exposes a circular or oval ulcer with a fatty-looking base. 
The nodules may be single, but are more often multiple, and 
may be so close together that when ulceration ensues the ulcers 
coalesce, forming a serpiginous ulcer. Sometimes the nodules 
are absorbed without proceeding to ulceration. The ulcers are 
very chronic and last for years, sometimes healing at one 
place and gradually extending in another. The joints I have 
seen most affected are the knee, elbow, and wrist. The sense 
of fluctuation was so marked in one case that I opened the 
joint ; but no fluid exuded, a fatty-looking material protrud- 
ing through the incision. The disease after a time attacks 
the bones, and the joints may become totally disorganized." 
(Journ. of Trop. Med. y Oct. 15, 1901.) 

On comparing the photographs illustrating Read's 
paper with others of a very similar complaint com- 
mon among the natives in certain parts of British 
East Africa, I am inclined to think both sets of 
photographs represent identical conditions. Possibly 
" chappa " is a tertiary phase of yaws. 

Treatment. Neither potassium iodide nor mer- 
cury avails. Scraping, escharotics, and antiseptics 
seem to be more effective ; but, although the disease 
may heal under treatment in one place, it breaks 
out in another. 

CLIMATIC BUBO 

Scheube has applied the term "climatic bubo" to 
a type of non-venereal adenitis not uncommon in 
tropical climates. So far as available statistics show, 
the disease is especially prevalent among the crews of 
warships on the eastern coast of Africa. It occurs 
also in the Straits of Malacca, in China (where I 
have seen a fair number of cases both in landsmen 
and in sailors), in the West Indies, Japan, the Medi- 
terranean, and probably in many other places, in- 
cluding, perhaps, in a minor degree, Europe. It 
appears to be epidemic at times in certain places, 
and to prevail in groups of individuals living under 
similar hygienic conditions. Thus, Ruge reports 38 
cases in the German squadron blockading the Zanzi- 
bar coast in 1888-89; Godding notes its frequency 
in the British fleet, also on the East African coast ; 



XLVIH] GOUNDOU 915 

Skinner mentions 49 cases occurring in a regiment 
and battery of artillery : of these, 28 developed in 
Calcutta, 13 in Hong Kong, 4 in England, 2 in 
Allahabad, and 2 in Malta. 

Symptoms. The disease generally commences 
with fever of a remittent type in association with in- 
flammatory swelling, usually of a subacute character, 
of the groin glands. The oblique inguinal glands are 
those most frequently affected, but at times it is 
the crural glands that are attacked. Sometimes both 
groins are affected, sometimes only one, sometimes 
one groin is attacked after the other. The affected 
glands slowly or more rapidly enlarge to the size of 
a hen's egg, or even larger. After several weeks, 
it may be months, the swelling gradually subsides. 
Occasionally the periglandular connective tissues in- 
flame, the integuments become adherent, and suppu- 
ration ensues. If the suppurating glands be freely 
incised, or excised, the parts readily heal ; but if they 
are left alone, or inefficiently treated, fistulous tracks 
form and may take a very long time to heal. 

Hitherto no satisfactory explanation of this type 
of adenitis has been forthcoming. No special bac- 
terium has been demonstrated in the tissues. There 
are no adequate reasons for supposing, as has been 
conjectured, that the disease has any connection 
with plague, or that- it is a form of pestis minor. 
Most probably the adenitis depends on some virus 
which has been introduced through an overlooked 
wound or insect bite on the legs or genitals. 

Treatment should consist in rest and soothing 
applications during the more acute stage. After pain 
and tenderness have subsided, graduated elastic pres- 
sure should be applied. Concurrent malaria would 
call for quinine ; syphilis, for mercury or the iodides. 

GOUNDOU, OR ANAKHRE (" GROS NEZ ") 

On December 10th, 1882, Prof. A. MacAlister 
read a paper before the Royal Irish Academy on 
what were termed the horned men of Africa. In 
the British Medical Journal of December 10th, 1887, 



916 GOUNDOU [CHAP. 

Lamprey gave further details, illustrated with draw- 
ings, on the same subject. He had seen three such 
cases on the West Coast of Africa, all of them 
Fantis ; one came from the Wassau territory, one 
from the Gamin territory, the third was a visitor to 
Cape Coast Castle. Renner also reports and illus- 
trates a case from the Sierra Leone River. 

Maclaud calls attention to what is manifestly 
the same affection, which, according to him, occurs 
in a considerable proportion one or two per hundred 
of the inhabitants of certain villages on the Ivory 
Coast. The natives call it goundou, and, also, anakhre. 
Maclaud says it is confined to the riverine districts 
of the Lower Camoe ; according to the information he 
received, if found elsewhere it is only in individuals 
who had previously resided in this district. Lam- 
prey's and Renner's observations prove that goundou 
has a considerably wider distribution. 

Symptoms. According to Maclaud, the disease 
usually commences soon after childhood, although 
adults also may be attacked. The earliest symptoms 
are severe arid more or less persistent headache 
which, after a time, is associated with a sanguino- 
purulent discharge from the nostrils, and the forma- 
tion of symmetrical swellings the size of a small 
bean at the side of the nose. (Fig. 222.) Apparently 
the swelling affects the nasal process of the superior 
maxilla. The cartilages are not involved. Although 
Maclaud does not refer to this point, it may be 
assumed that the nasal ducts remain patent. After 
continuing for six or eight months, the headache 
and discharge subside. Not so the swellings ; these 
persist and continue slowly and steadily to increase 
until in time they may attain the size of an 
orange, or even of an ostrich's egg. As they grow, 
the tumours, encroaching on the eyes, may interfere 
with the line of vision and finally destroy these 
organs. There is no pain in the tumours them- 
selves. The superjacent skin is not involved, being 
healthy-looking and freely movable. The tumours 
are oval, with the long axes directed downwards and 
slightly from within outwards. Lamprey's drawings 






XLVIIl] 



SYMPTOMS 



917 



give a more elongated form and horizontal direc- 
tion. The swellings, according to Maclaud, when 
of moderate dimensions, look something like two 
half -eggs laid alongside the nose, one on each side. 
The nostrils are bulged inwards, and more or less 
obstructed ; but, in the later stages at all events, 
there is no discharge, neither can any breach of the 
mucous surface be detected. The hard palate is not 
affected in any way. 

Maclaud had no opportunity of ascertaining by 
post-mortem examination, or by surgical operation, 





Fig. 222 Goundou. (From photograph in the Journ. ofTrop. Med.) 

the nature of this singular disease. He inclines to 
the opinion that, in the first instance, the process is 
started by the larvae of some insect which find their 
way into the nostrils. I would point out, however, 
that the symmetry of the growths is difficult to 
account for on this hypothesis. Maclaud observed a 
similar affection in a chimpanzee. 

Strachan records and illustrates an instance of 
goundou in a West Indian negro child. (Fig. 223.) 
In this case the swellings were congenital, and had 
only increased in proportion to the child's growth. 
They were hard, smooth, bony masses, somewhat 
of the shape and size of an elongated pigeon's egg, 
and sprang from the nasal process of the superior 



918 



GOUNDOU 



[CHAP. 



maxillary and nasal bones. For aesthetic reasons 
they were removed by the chisel, and were found to 
consist of compact bone with a cancellous core. 
Strachan states that he had seen two similar cases, 
and had often noted a Bridge'' in this part of the 
face of West Indian negroes. He suggests that the 
condition may be an example of atavism, referable 
to some tribal peculiarity of the original West 
African stock. 

Chalmers has given an admirable and well- 




Fig. 223. Goundou in a West Indian child. (Dr. Henry Strachan.) 

illustrated account of this affection as seen on the 
Gold Coast, where it is fairly common and is known 
as "henpurge." He confirms Strachan as to the 
anatomical characters of the swellings, which he 
regards as the result of an osteoplastic periostitis due 
to yaws. He affirms that the morbid process begins 
during, or soon after, an attack of yaws, and is 
correlated in some way to an anatomical arrange- 
ment of the blood-vessels of the parts, an arrange- 
ment which, he gives the reader to infer, is peculiar 
to the negro of this part of Africa. 



XLVIII] AINHUM 919 

JUXTA-ARTICULAR NODULES 

First discovered in 1901 by Macgregor, and sub- 
sequently named by Jeanselme, these parasitical 
tumours are now known to occur in the natives 
of many tropical countries, as Java, Siam, Mada- 
gascar, and, especially, tropical Africa, where, owing 
to concurrence in tropical distribution and similarity 
in appearance, they are apt to be mistaken for 
Onchocerca volvulus cysts (p. 788), and vice versa. 
In both cases these swellings are originally sub- 
cutaneous ; they increase in size very slowly, and 
may attain the dimensions of a small orange ; 
they are round or oval, and firm in consistence. 
They are painless, and very rarely ulcerate or sup- 
purate. The juxta-articular nodules are generally 
multiple; they occur, as the name implies, in the 
neighbourhood of joints, occasionally on the external 
surfaces of limbs, and are arranged symmetrically. 
They are of a woodeny hardness in contrast to the 
elastic firmness of the volvulus tumour, and, unlike 
the latter, of a somewhat irregular surface. In case 
of doubt, diagnosis may be readily cleared up by 
aspirating the tumour with an exploring needle. A 
volvulus tumour will yield a viscid yellowish or 
turbid fluid containing microtilarise ; a juxta-articular 
nodule yields no fluid or, at most, a drop of clear 
serum. At times, though rarely, these tumours 
disappear spontaneously. If they are inconveniently 
located they irfay be excised. 

Macgregor and others considered that these 
tumours were of parasitic origin, and Fontoynont and 
Carougeau claim to have discovered the parasite as 
an extremely delicate fungus, Nocardia carougeaui. 
Clapier, who has given much attention to, and has 
had long experience of, these tumours in French 
Guinea, failed to confirm this claim. 

AINHUM 

This is a disease of a very peculiar character, 
affecting the toes, particularly the little toes, of 
negroes, East Indians, and other dark -skinned races. 



920 



AINHUM 



[CHAP. 



Symptoms. The disease commences as a narrow 
groove in the skin almost invariably on the inner and 
plantar side of the root of the little toe. It may occur 
in one foot only, or in both feet simultaneously, or it 
may affect one foot after the other. The groove, once 
started, deepens and extends gradually round the 
whole circumference of the toe. As it deepens it 
may be, though not necessarily, with some amount 
of ulceration the distal portion of the member is 
apt to swell to a considerable size, as if constricted 
by a ligature. (Fig. 224.) There is little or 110 
pain, although there may be inconvenience from the 
liability to injury to which 
the dangling and now everted 
toe is exposed. In the course 
of years the groove slowly 
deepens, and finally the toe 
drops off or is amputated. 
The groove may either corre- 
spond with a joint or it 
may be formed over the 
continuity of a phalanx. In 
rare instances, after the two 
distal phalanges have dropped 
off or been amputated, the 
disease recurs in the stump, 
and the proximal phalanx in 
its turn is thrown off. Of 
the other toes,. the fourth is 
the one which is most fre- 
quently affected ; very rarely is the third, or second, 
or great toe attacked. In the Army Medical Mu- 
seum at Washington, U.S.A., there is a wax model 
representing a case of this or a similar affection, in 
which all the toes had been thrown off and the disease 
was making progress in the leg. 

Ainhum is very rare in women or children, being 
most common in adult males. It runs its course in 
from one to ten or even more years. 

On section it is found, as a rule, though not in- 
variably, that the panniculus adiposus of the affected 
toe is much hypertrophied, that the bone is infiltrated 




Fig. 224. Ainhum. 



XLVIII] SYMPTOMS 921 

with fatty matter, and that the other tissues are 
correspondingly degenerated. Sometimes the bone is 
thinned, or even altogether absorbed. At the seat of 
constriction a line of hypertrophy of the epithelial 
layers, and of atrophy of the papillary layer of the 
skin, together with a band of fibrous tissue more or 
less intimately connected with the derma, surrounds, 
in whole or in part, the narrow pedicle. 

Nothing is known as to the true nature and cause 
of this disease, to which the European and white- 
skinned races are not, but to which the African 
races, particularly the negroes of the West Coast, 
are especially liable. Some have suggested that it is a 
trophic lesion depending upon some nervous affection. 
The occurrence of severe loin pains, which Dupouy 
says he remarked at the commencement in some of his 
cases, as well as the tendency of the affection to run 
in families, as noted by Da Silva Lima, affords a cer- 
tain amount of support to this view. Others suggest 
that it is a manifestation of leprosy ; others, that it is 
a form of sclerodermia ; others again, and on equally 
inadequate grounds, that it is produced artificially by 
intentional ligation or by the wearing of toe rings. 
My own impression is that it is provoked, at all 
events in the first instance, by wounds so easily 
inflicted on bare feet in walking through grass or 
jungle. The fold o skin in which the lesion of 
ainhum commences is very liable, especially in the 
splay ed-out toes of the negro, to be wounded in this 
way. If we examine the under-surface of the joint 
flexures of the toes in many individuals of this race, 
even of those not affected with ainhum, we often find 
the skin, particularly at the proximal joint of the 
little toe, thick, rough, scaling, and sometimes even 
ulcerated. One can understand that continual irrita- 
tion of this sort, produced and kept up by wounds from 
sharp grasses or jiggers (Wellman), would in time give 
rise, especially in the dark-skinned" races so prone to 
cheloid, to fibrotic changes in the derma, which might 
very well end in a sort of linear cicatricial contraction, 
and ultimately in slow atrophying strangulation of 
the affected member. The disease is said, however, 



922 BIG HEEL [CHAP. 

to have been seen in those who wear shoes ; but, 
unless it could be shown that such individuals had 
always worn shoes, this objection to the explanation 
offered would not apply. I have seen a negro in 
whom the entire integument of the little toe was 
involved in a sclerodermia, and the part in conse- 
quence was shrunken and hidebound, whilst the little 
toe of the other foot was affected with well-marked 
ordinary ainhum ; the process was diffuse, as it were, 
on the one side, localized on the other. 

The tail in certain species of monkey is liable 
to a similar disease. I have had under observation 
for some time a pet monkey in which the part 
corresponding to the distal vertebra dropped off in 
consequence of an ainhum -like linear constriction. 
Two months later the next vertebra was similarly 
amputated, and later a third groove formed a little 
higher up the tail. 

Treatment. It has been suggested that divi- 
sion of the constricting fibrous band would delay 
the evolution of the disease. In the early stage this 
might be tried. When troublesome, the affected toe 
should be amputated. 

BIG HEEL, OB ENDEMIC HYPERTROPHY 
OF Os CALCIS 

Maclean (Journ. ofTrop. Med., November 1, 1904) 
describes a peculiar form of enlargement of the os 
calcis which he observed at Kaziankor, Gold Coast, 
West Africa, among Fantis and Kroos. The disease 
begins somewhat suddenly, being preceded by fever 
and accompanied by pain and tenderness which reach 
their maximum in about a month, gradually diminish- 
ing during the succeeding one or two months. Con- 
currently with the pain a swelling of the external 
surface of the os calcis, rarely of the tarsal bones, 
makes its appearance. Sometimes one heel only, 
sometimes both heels are affected. The swelling may 
be so considerable as to be quite evident both 
to touch and sight. It subsides to a certain ex- 
tent, though not altogether, as the pain diminishes. 
Locomotion is seriously interfered with by the pain, 



XLVIH] ONYALAI 923 

but there is no implication of joints. The disease 
relapses from time to time, more especially during 
the rainy season. In one case recorded by Maclean 
severe pain would be provoked at any time by appli- 
cation of cold water. 

Maxwell (Journ. of Trop. Med., March 15, 1905) 
reports a similar condition in natives of Formosa. 
As in Maclean's cases, the patients were young 
adults from 20 to 25 years of age. In Maxwell's 
cases the disease, although very painful, seemed to 
be of a more chronic character. In one instance the 
patient's sufferings were much relieved by trephining 
the affected bones. This curious condition somewhat 
resembles goundou. So far, we have no clue to its 
etiology. It is probably not syphilitic. Iodide of 
potassium did not relieve Maxwell's cases. 

ONYALAI 

Yale Massey describes (Journ. of Trop. Med., 
September 1, 1904, April 1, 1907), under the above 
title, a peculiar disease occurring among the natives 
of Portuguese West Africa, and also on the Lua- 
laba River. It is characterized by the formation 
of a number of vesicles, distended with blood, from 
J to ^ in. in diameter, on the hard palate and 
on the inside of the cheeks. Some of the vesicles 
are umbilicated. They differ from ordinary blood 
blisters by the presence of numerous trabeculse and 
the semi-coagulation of the contents ; this makes 
the vesicle difficult to empty. The urine apparently 
invariably contains free blood. Occasionally the 
disease is accompanied by fever, and although with 
one exception all Yale Massey's cases recovered within 
a week to ten days, the natives regard the disease 
with dread owing to its reputation for deadliness. 
The etiology is quite unknown. 



Appendix 

SOME OF THE COMMONER PARASITIC PROTOZOA 
OF VERTEBRATES AND INVERTEBRATES 

RECENT discovery has clearly demonstrated the 
importance of the Protozoa as factors in the etiology 
of disease, especially of tropical disease. 

Manifestly the subject is still in its infancy. Many 
as yet unknown species of blood protozoa will doubt- 
less be added to the already considerable list of those 
attacking man and the lower animals. As regards 
man, it is doubtful if we have as yet completed the 
list even of the much-studied malaria parasites, much 
less determined their respective life histories and 
zoological relationships. Moreover, there are certain 
genera of blood protozoa which, although occurring 
in other mammals, have, so far, not been found, or, 
at all events, recognized in man, Babesia and Hsemo- 
gregarina for example. It is not unreasonable to 
conjecture that, although hitherto unrecognized, re- 
presentatives of these genera do occur in man, and 
that ere long they will be discovered. The investi- 
gator must not lose sight of this probability. 

The entire subject is one of the utmost importance 
to the medical man in the tropics, and, whether he 
would perfect himself in existing knowledge or seek 
to add to it, he should study it practically and from 
the standpoint of comparative pathology. I would 
therefore strongly recommend him to avail himself of 
the abundant opportunities he is sure to enjoy to 
study the protozoa not in man only but in other 
mammals, in birds, in fishes, and in reptiles. As 
a guide and help in such studies I append a brief 
summary, for which I am indebted to Dr. Philip Bahr, 
of our present knowledge of this important class of 
924 



DEFINITION OF THE PROTOZOA 925 

parasites, so far as it has a bearing on human path- 
ology. As to classification, still a qucestio vexata, the 
one adopted in Prof. Minchin's " Introduction to the 
Protozoa " (1912) has been for the most part followed. 

DEFINITION OF THE PROTOZOA 

Protozoa are unicellular organisms possessing 
a nucleus distinct from the cytoplasm. They belong 
to the Protistenreich of Haeckel, a kingdom which 
unites the simplest and most primitive forms of life, 
and which may be considered equivalent in systemic 
value to the animal and vegetable kingdoms. 

The protozoal cell constitutes an entire individual; 
it may exist singly, or combined in the form of cell 
colonies. 

The body is a mass of protoplasm sometimes 
enclosed in a limiting envelope. Such organs as are 
present are also protoplasmic, and are used for the 
purposes of locomotion and capture of food. Meta- 
bolism is generally of the animal type. 

Reproduction takes place by fission. Sexual re- 
production generally occurs throughout the group, 
and, as compared with other Protista, the develop- 
mental cycle may be a very complicated one in 
which the same organism reappears in a totally dif- 
ferent form at different periods of its development. 

There are certain forms of development in the blood 
protozoa which it is necessary to define and for which certain 
terms are used. Their application, however, when loosely 
used has given rise to much confusion. The protozoa parasitic 
in blood of the vertebrate host undergo a vegetative or non- 
sexual multiplication, the process being then known as 
schizogony ; but in order to ensure their further existence, and 
their passage from one vertebrate host (intermediary host)* 
to another, a further cycle in a cold-blooded invertebrate 
host (definitive host) is necessary, during which the sexual 
cycle or sporogony takes place. 

In the vertebrate blood the young parasite is known as a 
schizont. The products of the asexual fission are known as 
merozoites ; these merozoites at some period of their existence 
develop into forms known as sporonts, destined to pass into the 
alimentary tract of the inveitebrate host. The term trophozoite 

* The terms "intermediary" and "definitive," as describing the 
vertebrate and invertebrate host, have often been used in a loose sense, 
thus leading to much confusion. 



926 APPENDIX 

is applied to the young schizont or sporont which, is absorbing 
nourishment direct from the cell in which it is lodged. 

Parthenogenesis .is not recognized as occurring in the 
protozoa, but was supposed by Schaudinn to take place in 
the case of the malaria parasite and to be responsible for the 
relapses of that infection. 

These sporonts, still in the blood of the vertebrate host, 
develop into sexually differentiated cells (gametocytes), which 
are quiescent until they are removed from the blood ; when 
this occurs both male and female cells extrude two polar 
bodies preparatory to the sexual process, and are then known 
as gametes. The flagella or microgametes extruded by the 
male cell function as spermatozoa, enter and fertilize the 
female cell (macrogamete], thereafter known as a zygote. 

After this act the zygote in some forms, especially the 
Plasmodidae, becomes an elongated motile body (ookinete or 
travelling vermicule), which may remain free or become 
encysted (oocyst). The oocyst gives rise to secondary bodies 
in its interior (sporoblasts), which in turn develop into a 
number of minute rods known as sporozoites. Usually these 
sporozoites continue to enter the mouth parts of the insect, 
and by this route they once more gain the blood of the 
vertebrate host. 

The Protozoa are generally divided into four 
main classes. 

Class I.-SARCODINA 

Protozoa in which the protoplasmic body has no 
limiting envelope in the form of a stiff cortical layer, 
thus tending to a spherical shape in the floating forms, 
or an irregular, ever-changing shape in the creeping 
forms. Organs serving for locomotion and capture of 
food are known as pseudopodia ; a skeleton or shell 
may be present. Encysted resistant forms occur 
which may give rise to a number of daughter cells. 

Sexual conjugation (gametogamy} is the usual pro- 
cess of reproduction, though autogamy within the 
cyst wall has been described. 

EXAMPLES : Amoeba Umax, Entamoeba coli. Ent- 
amoeba histolytica. 

Class II. MASTIGOPHORA 
Protozoa in which the organs of locomotion and for 
food capture are flagella, that is to say, long slender 
filaments capable of performing lashing movements. 
EXAMPLES : Trichomonas, Lamblia, Trypanosoma. 



SARCODINA 927 

Class III.-SPOROZOA 

Protozoa occurring as blood or intracellular para- 
sites of other organisms. They possess no definite 
organs for locomotion or for ingestion of food. The 
typical reproduction takes place by the formation of 
spores and minute germs called sporozoites. 

EXAMPLES: Gregarina, Coccidium, Plasmodium. 

Class IV. INFUSORIA 

Protozoa in which small filaments called cilia 
serve as organs of locomotion j these are distinguished 
from flagella by their much smaller size and in being 
present in great numbers, forming a fine covering 
over the whole of the body. The body protoplasm 
is always corticate. 

EXAMPLE : Balantidium. 

Class I. SARCODINA 

This class, sometimes termed the Rhizopoda, includes 
parasitic amoebae as well as free-living forms such as the 
Kadiolaria and Foraminifera ; these latter are of little interest 
to the student of tropical medicine. The distinctive characters 
of the amoebae parasitic in man have already been given 
(p. 511). These are capable of independent amoeboid loco- 
motion by the alternate protrusion and retraction of proto- 
plasmic processes called " pseudopodia." 

Entamceba coli reproduces itself by binary fission in the 
ordinary way ; this is called the vegetative or multiplicative 
phase. In addition to this a cystic or resting stage occurs, 
when conditions under which the parasite exists become 
adverse. 

A sexual process, called autogamy, occurring within the cyst 
wall was described by Schaudinn, though recent authorities 
are inclined to doubt it. The process, as described, is as 
follows : The cyst contains at first but one nucleus, which 
divides into two. Each nucleus is then S'nd to break up into 
chromidia and disappear, but to reappear later as a smaller 
and less distinct secondary nucleus on each side of the cell. 
Each secondary nucleus again divides into three ; two of these 
again degenerate as reduction nuclei, while the third persists 
as a sexual or g-ameto-nucleus. The gameto-nuclei divide 
into four pronuclei, then two of each side conjugate and fuse, 
forming two nuclei or " synkarya" which subsequently divide 
into eight nuclei, in this manner forming eight amcebulae 
within the cyst. 

The end-product of the cystic stage of Entamceba histolytica 
possesses but four nuclei, and is known as the Entamceba tetragenn 



928 APPENDIX 

of Viereck. The process of cyst formation by a budding pro- 
cess of the vegetative form, as described by Schaudinn, is now 
held to be incorrect. 

The vegetative forms of the pathogenic and non -pathogenic 
species are further distinguished by differences in their proto- 
plasmic contents. Tn E. histolytica the endoplasmic zone is 
granular, the ectoplasmic hyaline, while in E. coll no such 
differentiation occurs. The nuclei of the two forms have also 
distinctive differences. E. coli has a large and distin^c nucle- 
olus (karyosome) and a distinct nuclear membrane ; whereas 
the E. histolytica nucleus is not so markedly differentiated 
(see p. 514). 

Amoeba Umax and A. terricola are free-living forms of 
amoebae occurring in water and earth. Their cystic stages 
possess a hard and refractile cyst wall. They are of import- 
ance to the tropical pathologist in that they may be ingested 
and recovered from the stools of dysenteries and others in 
culture on Musgrave and Clegg's medium. The parasitic 
amoebic proper to man have not been so cultivated. 

Class II. MASTIGOPHORA 

The Mastigophora are divided into three subclasses, of 
which only one subclass, that of the Flagellata, containing 
the more typical forms, deserves our attention. The subclass 
Flagellata is divided into four orders : 
i. Pantasomina. 
ii. Protomonadina. 
iii. Polymastigina. 
iv. Euglenoidina. 

The second and third only of these orders contain parasitic 
genera. 

Order ii. Protomonadina 

The Protomonadina are mostly flagellates of a small size 
with a principal and one or more subsidiary flagella. They 
are either saprophytic or parasitic. 

Suborder 1. Cercpmonas is a frequent parasite in the 
intestine of man ; it is oval in shape, with a single nucleus 
and well-marked nucleolus, and has two flagella, one passing 
forwards, and the other backwards over the surface of the 
body to the hinder end, which is frequently drawn out into a 
protrusion resembling a tail. 

Suborder 2. Bodo (Fig. 225) is similar in shape and 
general structure to Cercomonas, but has two flagella, one 
directed forwards, the other backwards as a trailing flagellum ; 
it occurs both as free-living forms and as parasitic in animals, 
for the most part in the digestive tract. 

Suborder 3. Prowazekia. Prowazckia resembles Bodo in 
the arrangement of its flagella, but in the possession of a 
tropho- and a kinetonucleus it more resembles Trypanoplasma. 
It differs from Trypanoplasma in that the backward-directed 



MASTIGOPHORA 929 

flagellum is free from the body and devoid of an undulating 
membrane. Several species have been described from human 
ffeces, and one, P. cruzi, is considered to be the cause of a 
diarrhoaa in China. 

Suborder 4. The Haemoflagellata and allied forms are an 
important suborder of the Protomonadina, and under this term 
are grouped a number of forms having a characteristic but 
not invariable parasitic habitat in the blood of vertebrates and 
in the digestive tract of invertebrates. 

The group comprises a number of heterogeneous forms con- 
veniently grouped together, their chief morphological feature 
being the possession of two nuclei, a tropho- and a kinetonucleus 
(blepharoplast) . For this reason they were included by Hart- 
mann as a distinct order of the Flagellata and termed the 
" binucleata." 

The following five genera represent the more important 
types: (1) Trypanosoma, (2) Trypanoplasma, (3) Crithidia, 
(4) Herpetomonas, (5) Leishmania. 




Fl 

Fig. 225. Bodo. 
N., Nucleus ; Rh., rliizoplast -, PI., flagella of unequal length. 

1. THE GENUS TRYPANOSOMA. The structure of the tryp- 
anosome body is of a uniform type, though subject to varia- 
tion in minor details. The body is long and sinuous; the 
anterior* end tapers gradually to a narrow point, while the 
posterior end generally terminates more bluntly. 

The principal nucleus (trophonucleus) is situated centrally ; 
the kinetonucleus is usually placed posterior to the nucleus, but 
is sometimes closely approximated to it. Certain exceptions to 
this rule are known, namely, the recently described T. rhodesiense 
(p. 185), and some multiplicative forms of T. lewisi. The 
flagellum arises from a centriole (blepharoplast) closely con- 
nected with the kinetonucleus, and passes forwards as the 
margin of the undulating membrane ; in some cases it may end 
with the undulating membrane at the anterior extremity of 
the body, but more usually it projects forwards as a free lash. 
The arrangement of the centriole and kinetonucleus varies; 
sometimes the former is lodged within the latter, sometimes 
connected with it by a delicate rhizoplast. In one species, 

* It has been suggested that the terms "flagellar" and "aflagellar" 
be'used to designate the extremities of the body, instead of the terms 
"anterior" and "posterior," which are here employed strictly with 
reference to the mode of progression. 

2E 



930 



APPENDIX 



T. equinum (Fig. 226), the cause of "mal de caderas" in 
South America, the kinetonucleus is very minute. 

Trypanosomes occur as blood parasites in all classes of verte- 
brates. Many wild animals harbour small numbers of these 
parasites in their blood. Certain are specific and probably 
harmless to their particular vertebrate host. 

Trypanosomes of cold-blooded animals in- 
clude T. rajce, T. damonifs, T. grannlosum, and 
Fig. 226. T. rotatorium (Figs. 227-30). 

/ J e( l. uinum - . Though showing but slight morphological 

(After Laveran.) differences as a general rul( f members of fe this 

genus have been differentiated on morpho- 
logical as well as on pathological grounds. 







Fig. 227. T. rajse. 
(After Laveran and 
Mesnil.) A tryp- 
anosome of fish (the 
skate). 





Fig. 229. T. granulosum. A 
trypanosome of the eel. 




Fig. 230. T. rotatorium. (After Laveran.) A trypanosome of the frog 
(Rana esculenta). 

The Lewisi group includes T. lewisi, T. cuniculi, T. dnttoni 
of the mouse, T. microti of Microtus arvalis, all about equal in 
size (24-25 /i in length and 1-2 p in breadth), and similar in 
general appearances ; that is, the organisms are long and 
slender ; both the flagellar and aflagellar extremities are mark- 
edly pointed and the nucleus situated towards the flagellar 
end. They are non-pathogenic, or only slightly pathogenic. 

The Brucei group includes nearly all the pathogenic varie- 
ties: T. brucei (nagana), T. gambiense (sleeping sickness), T. 
rhodesieme* (human trypanosomiasis in Rhodesia), T. evansi 

* T. rhodesiense greatly resembles T. gamUense, but is more pleo- 
morphic and more virulent to the lower animals. 



TKYPANOSOMES 931 

(surra), T. hippicum (murrina, a disease of mules in Panama), 
T. equintun (mal de caderas), T. eqmperdum (dourine, or mal 
du coi't), T. vlvax vel cazalboui (souma disease of mules and 
cattle in the Soudan). 

These trypanosomes are all about the same size (22-28 /t in 
length and 1-3 p. in breadth). The aflagellar extremity is 
blunted to a variable extent, the nucleus is centrally placed, 
and the protoplasm granular. For further details of the 
members of this group, see p. 194. 

According to some authors, T. dimorphon, a parasite of 
horses in the Gambia, producing symptoms resembling nagana, 
represents a distinct type. As its specific name implies, it is 
found in two distinct forms one long form, 22 p. in length ; and 
a short, stumpy form, 1-5 p in length. The aflagellar extremity 
is markedly blunted, and the body protoplasm is continued to 
the end of the flagellum. 

T. nanitm resembles T. dimorphon in general features, and 
is the smallest of all the mammalian trypanosomes, measuring 
11-16 n by 2'5 fj.. It produces a chronic disease, marked by 
emaciation and anaemia, in cattle in the Soudan. 

T. theileri (Fig. 231), 60-70 ,u in length by 4 /x in breadth, 



Fig. 231. Fig. 232. Fig. 233. 

T. theileri. T. lewisi. T. brucei. 

(After Laveran.) (After Lnveran.) (After Laveran.) 

one of the largest mammalian trypanosomes, is recognized by 
its large size and rapid movements. It is apparently non- 
pathogenic, and is transmitted, according to Theiler, by 
Hippobosca nifipes. T. ingens, found in cattle in Uganda, is 
still larger than T. theileri, measuring 72-122/t in length, and 
the flagellum alone measuring 17 /u. 

The transmission of these trypanosomes from one host to 
another is carried out, so far as is known, by the agency of 
some blood-sucking invertebrate. AVhen such a host is of 
terrestrial habit the definitive host is an insect, when aquatic 
a leech ; though in one species, T. equiperdum, the cause of 
"dourine" in horses, the trypanosomes may pass from one 
host to another during coitus. Hereditary transmission in 
trypanosomes has not yet been proved. One or more species 
of insect may serve as the definitive host; thus in T. 



the selective hosts are the rat-fleas (Ceratophyllus fasciatus and 
Xenopsylla cheopis), though it may also develop in a different 
genus, the rat-louse (Hcematopmm gpinuksus), and also in Pulex 
irritans and Ctenoccphalm cams. 

The life cycle in the vertebrate host is generally as fol- 
lows: After infection (as in T. lewisi, Fig. 232) the trypano- 
somes appear in the blood about the fifth to the seventh day. 
Owing to the rapidity with which fission takes place, the 



p. 
In 



932 APPENDIX 

forms are of great variety. After two or three months have 
elapsed the swarms of trypanosomes in the rat's blood have 
begun to diminish and eventually disappear. When this has 
taken place that rat is immune to that particular species of 
trypanosome. 

No confirmation of Schaudinn's statement that some part 
of the development of trypanosomes in the blood is ultra- 
microscopic has been made, though nitrations of infected blood 
plasma through a bacterial filter have been experimented 
with. Fry and Ranken have observed a process of granule- 
shedding in trypanosomes under the dark-ground illumination 
. 161). 

n some instances trypanosomes appear in the peripheral cir- 
culation only at certain periods, as in the case of T. rhodesiense 
in man ; and in others, as in the trypanosome of Athene noctxa, 
the little owl, they are said to be most numerous in the 
peripheral circulation during the night-time, and then only 
during the summer months; in the winter months they are 
found in the bone marrow. 

The cycle in the invertebrate host takes place mainly in the 
digestive tract. Thus, T. leivisi, after being imbibed by the flea, 
multiplies rapidly, chiefly in the stomach cells, subsequently 
passing into the hindgut and rectum. Here the parasites 
assume a leptomonas and crithidia appearance, and occur in 
large bunches attached by their flagellar ends to the epithelium, 
where they divide with great rapidity, or they may occur in 
cyst-like masses within degenerating epithelial cells. Event- 
ually they give rise to the small infective trypanosomes first 
described by Swellengrebel and Strickland, which occur in 
vast numbers in the hind-gut and rectum of the flea. The 
latter becomes infective in four to seven days, and it may 
remain infective for forty -five days or longer. The flea does 
not infect the rat through its proboscis, and the parasites are 
not found in the flea's salivary glands. Theoretically infec- 
tion can take place in three ways : (a) the flea harbouring 
the infective forms of the flagellates may be crushed and 
devoured by the rat ; (b) the rat may lick its fur upon which 
an infected flea has just dejected; (c) the rat may lick and 
infect with flea dejecta the wound produced by the insect. 
Of these the second is probably the most common method ; the 
other two are doubtful. 

Many pathogenic trypanosomes in Africa are transmitted 
by tse-tse flies (Glossiiia), and probably these flies remain in- 
fective for life. Thus, T. gambiense of man is transmitted by 
Glossina palpalis, and perhaps by G. morsitans as well ; T. 
Irucei (T. pecaudi) (Fig. 233) of big game, and T. rhodtsiense 
of man, by G. morsitans ; T. vivax (probably identical with T. 
cazalboui) by G. morsitans, palpalis, longipalpis, and tachinoides ; 
T. caprce by G. morsitans ; T. dimorphon\)y G. palpalis ; T. grayi, 
the trypanosome of crocodiles, is also transmitted by this same 
glossina ; T. evansi, of "surra," a disease of horses in India, 
by Stomoxys nigra, and probably by a tabanus as well. 



TRYPANOSOMES 933 

The trypanosomes of birds probably develop in mosquitoes ; 
those of fishes and turtles in leeches. 

Two methods of transmission of trypanosomes must be 
distinguished. The one, a mechanical method, can be per- 
formed by any blood-sucking insect for a few hours after a 
meal of infected blood; the other, indirect or cyclical, is a 
developmental cycle, and can only take place in the particular 
definitive host that is, in most instances, some species of 
glossina to which the particular species of trypanosome has 
become adapted. 

The development of T. gambiense (Fig. 234) in G. palpalis, 
thanks to the researches of Kleine, Taute, Bruce and his col- 
laborators, is now fairly completely known. Apparently the 
whole development takes eighteen to twenty-five days or more. 
Five to seven days after ingestion of infected blood the trypano- 
somes become scarce in the digestive tract of the fly, only to 
reappear in large numbers and in a variety of crithidial and 
other forms. Finally an invasion of the salivary glands by 
short, stumpy, trypaniform individuals takes place. In T. vivax 
(cazalboui} a completely different mode of development in glos- 
sina takes place, a method termed by Roubaud evolution par 
fixation directe ; this occurs solely in the proboscis of Glossina 
palpalis. The trypanosomes assume a 
leptomonas shape and attach themselves 
by their flagellum to the labium or hypo- 

' tiplv- 



pharynx of the proboscis tube, multiply- 
ing in the salivary fluid ; these flies remain pj gi 234. 
infective for life. A third method of T. gambieu.se. 
development occurs in the case of^ T. 
dimorphon the evolution par fixation in- 

directe of Roubaud. In this case the trypanosomes multiply 
first in the digestive tract of the glossina, and then pass for- 
wards into the proboscis. 

In T. cruzi the development both in the intermediary 
and in the definitive host is of so different a character that 
Chagas has relegated it to a special genus, Schizotrypanum. 
In man theadult trypanosomes multiply not in the peri- 
pheral circulation but in the internal organs of the body. 
In the capillaries of the lungs the adult trypanosome loses 
its flagellum and occasionally the kinetonucleus as well, the 
body becomes round, and the mass breaks up into eight small 
individuals (merozoites). Some regard these merozoites as 
exhibiting a sexual differentiation. The merozoites enter 
the red blood-cells, and so gain the general circulation. 
Within the corpuscles they form into a normal trypanosome, 
which, when set free, either repeats the schizogonic cycle or 
enters into the invertebrate host, in which it develops still 
further. 

A second type, and probably the normal method of 
multiplication in man, takes place within the hypertrophied 
endothelial cells of the lung and striped muscles, notably 
the cardiac muscle, but can apparently occur in any tissue. 



034 APPENDIX 

In this situation the parasite assumes the shape and appear- 
ance of a leishmania. 

The developmental cycle of this trypanosome takes place in 
a bug, Lamus meyistus, and is shortly as follows : The tryp-" 
anosomes taken up into the bug's stomach change in about 
six hours ; having lost their flagellum they assume a leishmania 
form and multiply by fission. After a while these forms 
assume a crithidial shape and pass into the intestine, event- 
ually gaining the body cavity arid salivary glands of the 
insect as small trypanosomes, and in this manner pass into 
the vertebrate host. 

The changes undergone by trypanosomes in culture on 
N.N.N. medium (p. 158) are diverse and striking; they then 
exhibit a series of forms quite distinct 
from those seen in the blood of the verte- 
brate, but bearing more resemblance to 
those seen in the invertebrate host. In 
such cultures they assume crithidial, 
Fi 235 leptomonas, and even leishmania forms. 

Trypanopfasma'borreli. 2. THE GENUS TRYPANOPLASMA (Fig. 

(After Laveran and 235). The species of this genus parasitic 
Mesnil.) j n ^lood are on jy known as yet to occur 

in fresh - water fishes, and are trans- 
mitted by leeches. A number of species are parasitic in the 
organs of snails, such as T. helicis, found in the receptaculum 
seminis of Helix pomatia. The principal feature is the presence 
of two flagella arising together from two blepharoplasts at the 
anterior extremity. One flagellum projects forwards, passing 
down the side of the b<jdy to the hind end, forming the free 
edge of the undulating membrane and projecting freely back- 
wards as a free flagellum. 








Bl. M. 

Fig. 23C. Crithidia. 
Fl.,Flagella ; M., undulating membrane; Bl., blepharoplast ; N., nucleus. 

3. THE GENUS CHITHIDIA (Fig. 236). The distinctive 
feature of ^ this genus is the relatively short undulating mem- 
brane and flagellum arising from the centre of the body at 
a point in close proximity to the kinetonucleus. The shape 
of the body varies considerably. Crithidial stages are com- 
monly found as developmental forms of trypanosomes. There 
remain, however, a number of forms which are parasitic in 
the intestinal tract of insects, notably the Chironornidic and 
Fulicid;<>. 

4. THE GENUS HERPETOMONAS (LEPTOMONAS). Intestinal 
parasites of insects, especially muscidio and hemiptera. In 



LEPTOMONAS LEISHMANIA 



935 



most cases they are parasites of insects alone, infection being 
brought about by the ingestion of cyst-infected faeces. Some 
species are parasitic in the latex of plants, and are taken up 
by the appropriate plant hemiptera. The distinctive charac- 
ters (Fig. 237) are the possession of a single flagellum arising 
from a single kinetonucleus, itself situated in the anterior 
portion of the body, and the absence of an undulating 
membrane. Uniflagellate and biflagellate forms occur. Some 
authorities regard the latter as the result' of precocious forma- 
tion of a new flagellum in anticipation of longitudinal 



Ax. 



N. 



151. 




Fi. 



'Fig. 237. Herpetomonas muscse domesticse. (After Proiuazek.) 
VI., Flagella; Bl.,blepbaroplast ; N., nucleus; Ax., axostyle. 



division. They have shown that trypanosome forms, but 
lacking the well-developed undulating membrane so charac- 
teristic of the mammalian trypanosome, also occur, the 
changes in form being in all probability brought about by 
the migration of the nuclei ; all stages being found between 
the non-flagellate leishmania, through leptomonad, crithidial, 
to the trypanosome form (Fig. 240). 




Fig. 238. Leishmania donovani. (After Leishman.) 



5. THE GENUS LEISHMANIA includes human parasites, 
L. donovani (Fig. 238), the cause of a general disease, kala- 
azar, and L. tropica, the cause of oriental sore a purely local 
infection. L. donovani, in the Mediterranean area, is found 
especially in children, and is associated with a similar disease 
occurring in dogs and caused by the same parasite. The type 
of parasite found in the vertebrate host is a small oval body 
multiplying by fission and contained within cells endothelial 
cells or macrophages ; it is very uniform in size. Each para- 
site possesses a tropho- and a very distinct kinetonucleus 
(blepharoplast). 



936 



APPENDIX 



In cultures on the N.N.N. medium the leishmania increase 
in size, and develop a flagellum, finally assuming an elongated 
leptomonas form. It is thought that this latter represents a 
stage of the development of the parasite in the invertebrate 
host ; such a development, however, has not yet been followed. 
Patton believes that in the case of L. donovani the parasite 
completes its developmental cycle in Cimex rotundatus, and in 
the Mediterranean area there is a certain amount of evidence 
to incriminate Ceratophyllus fasciatus, the dog-flea, as being 
the definitive host. In the case of L. tropica, it has been 
pointed out that since the sores, as they occur in man, are 
situated in some uncovered part of the body, the invertebrate 
host is more likely to be some biting fly or mosquito, or even 
the sand-fly (Phlebotomus). 

Morphologically the leishmania is a leptomonas, but the 
fact that it occurs in a vertebrate host should justify its 
inclusion in a separate genus, Leishmania. 






\ 





Fig. 239. Diagram of types of flagellates. (After Wenyon.) 
A, Trypanosome; B, Crithidia; C, Leptomonas ; D, Leishniauia. 



Nomenclature of the hatmoflagellateft. The generic terms given 
to these different parasites are also utilized to denote 
the different stages in their life cycles. Of this cycle 
the leishmania is taken to represent the most primi- 
tive, the trypanosome of vertebrates the most highly 
developed form (Fig. 239). 

One and all these stages occur in the developmental 
forms of certain trypanosomes in culture, and in the gut 
of the definitive host the glossina, and even in the verte- 
brate, as in T. lewisi. The generic titles Trypanosoma, 
Herpetomonas, Crithidia , and Leptomonas should, strictly 
speaking, be reserved for the parasite according to 
the highest developmental form it is capable of assum- 
ing. The accompanying diagram, taken from Wenyon 
(Fig. 240), illustrates this idea. 



LEISHMANIA 



937 



Parasites of Uncertain Zoological Position resembling Leishmania 

HcemocystozMn brasiliense was found by Franchini in the blood of a man 
from Brazil. The parasites are sometimes oval, the size of a red blood- 
cell, containing a large nucleus, a variable amount of- pigment, and one 



T/TLE5 




TRYPAH05OME 



TR.YR4HOSOME 




CK/TH/D/A 




t&SH/MN/A 



^ 

hi 



T 



Fig. 240. Diagram of the classification of the trypanosomes and allied 
flagellates. (After Wenyon.) 

or more centrosomes, and sometimes a terminal flagellum arising from 
a blepharoplast ; sometimes non-flagellate and very minute forms were 
found in the red cells. In a liver puncture, round, clear and encysted 



933 



APPENDIX 



f >rms occurred, enclosed exceptionally in leucocytes. The^patient snf 
fered from irregular fever and anaemia combined with a cystic enlarge- 
ment in close proximity to the inferior cervical glands. Liver and spleen 
were also enlarged. 

Histoplasma capsulatum was found by Darling in Panama in the tissues 
of one Chinaman and two negroes who died of some obscure malady 
characterized by Avasting, irregular fever, enlarged spleen, and anaemin. 
In smears and sections of the lung small bodies were found within the 
epithelioid cells which bore a great resemblance to leishmania, but 
differed in possessing no kinetonucleus (blepharoplast). According to 
Rocha-Lima the parasite is really a yeast-like organism and has nothing 
to do with the protozoa, but resembles the Cryptococcus fardminosii s, 
the cause of epizootic lymphangitis of horses in Senegal. 

Order iii. Polymastigina 

Polymastigina possess three or more unequal flagella ; a 
distinct mouth opening may be present or absent ; in other 
points they resemble the foregoing. The Polymastigina are 




Cli. L. 



U.M. 



Fig. 241. Trichomonas in- 
testinalis. (After Martin 
and Robertson.) 

Bl., Blepharoplast ; Ch. L., 
chromatinic line ; M., mouth; 
Fl., ant. flagella; N., nucleus; 
Oh. B., chromatic body; Ax., 
axostyle ; U. M., undulating 
membrane. 




Fig. 242. Lamblia intestinalis. 
(After Wenyon.) 

X., Nuclei; Ax., axostyles; Fl. 1-4, four 
pairs of flagella. 



divided into two divisions or suborders the Tetramitidffi and 
the Octomitidae. 

Suborder 1. The Tetramitidse have three or more flagella 
arising at the anterior end ; the trailing flagellum, if present, 
may be united to the body by an undulating membrane. 

Trichomonas intestinalis (Fig. 241), a common parasite in 
man, has the trailing flagellum united to the body by such an 
undulating membrane. It is a matter of controversy whether 
encystment occurs. Trichomonas, in addition to its motile 
powers, is capable of a certain amount of amrcboid movement ; 
it possesses a definite but small mouth cavity, and a stiff 
supporting rod known as the axostyle. 

Tetramitus mesnili also occurs as a harmless parasite in 
human faeces ; it resembles trichomonas in its general features, 



SPOROZOA 939 

but differs in the lack of an undulating membrane and in the 
presence of a well-marked cystosome in which there is either 
a fla{>ellum or a membrane ; there are three anterior flagella as 
in tnchomonas. 

Suborder 2. The Octomitidae, for the most part intestinal 
parasites, have six or eight flagella, generally arranged in 
pairs ; the body is bilaterally symmetrical in structure. 

Lamblia intestinalis (Fig. 242) is a common parasite in the 
human intestine ; encystment is a common feature ; these cysts 
are ovoid bodies containing two nuclei. On the ventral surface 
of the free form there is a sucker-like depression. The general 
structure of the parasite is sufficiently well shown in Fig. 24-2. 

Class III. SPOROZOA 

This class contains four orders of interest : 
i. Gregarinidea. 
ii. Eimeriinea. 
iii. Haemosporidia. 
iv. Neosporidia. 

Order i. Gregnrinidea 

This oi-der contains the family of Gregarines. The young 
parasite (trophozoite) is at first a parasite of the endothelial 
cells, but later, becoming free, lies in the body cavity and in 
the intestinal canal. The full-grown parasite is of a large 
size, and has a definite shape and cuticle. Gregarines are 
found commonly parasitic in the digestive tract of insects ; 
they are not known to occur in the vertebrata. The anterior 
end of the body may be provided with a rostrum, termed the 
epimerite, armed with hooks and processes ; the posterior por- 
tion of the body may be divided by a single septum into two 
segments, known as the protomerite and the deutomerite ; the 
nucleus, often of a large size and oval shape, is situated in 
the latter portion. The complete parasite is capable of in- 
dependent rapid motion. 

The Gregarines are divided into two groups, on one of which, 
EugregarinsB, a sexual phase sporogony only takes place. 
In the other, Schizogregarines, multiplication is effected by 
both sporogony and schizogony. 

The Eugregarines are further divided into two groups, the 
cephaline and acephaline gregarines. The cephalines have a 
well-developed epimerite ; in the acephalines the body is not 
segmented. 

In the sporOgonic phase two full-grown gregarines ap- 
proximate to one another, become rounded, and proceed to 
secrete a tough envelope. Each gregarine breaks up into a 
number of gametes which conjugate in pairs. The resulting 
zygotes (sporoblasts) each encyst in a sporocyst in which eight 
sporozoites are formed ; these on entering a new host develop 
into adult gregarines. The whole cycle takes place within 
the same insect or earthworm. 



940 APPENDIX 

Order ii. Einieriiiica 

This order also consists of intracellular parasites. A 
number of spores are produced within a cyst, itself the 
development of a single zygote. There is an alteration of 
generations, non-sexual schizogony alternating with a sexual 
cycle or propagative schizogony. 

The Eimeriinea are divided into a number of suborders, 
amongst which are the Eimeriidea (or true Coccidia), the 
Haemogregarinidre, and the Adeleidoe. 

Suborder Eimeriidea. The typical life-cycle of a coccidium 
is that of C. schubergi in the centipede LitJtobius fovficatnx. 
The young parasites or sporozoites are liberated from a cyst 
in the intestinal tract and penetrate epithelial cells, where 
they grow into large schizonts, characterized by a large vesi- 
cular nucleus and a karyosome (nucleolus) . When full grown 
the nucleus divides by repeated fission till a variable number, 
generally about thirty, are produced. The schizont now di- 
vides into as many merozoites as there are nuclei, and is then 
full grown. The cells burst, the merozoites are set free, and, 
entei-ing other cells, may develop in two ways, either into 
schizonts again or into sporonts. The sexes of the sporonts 
can be distinguished ; in the male the protoplasm is clear, but 
in the female it is crowded with reserve food material. 

The male sporont develops further ; the nucleus gives off a 
number of chromidial bodies which become aggregated to- 
gether to form secondary nuclei ; the nuclei develop into micro- 
gametes small, slender bodies provided with two flagella. The 
host cell then bursts, liberating the microgametes, which en- 
deavour to enter the female cell or macrogamete. When one 
such has effected its entrance the macrogamete secretes a tough 
membrane and becomes an oocyst, thus effectually preventing 
the entrance of any other microgametes. The penetrating 
microgamete fuses with the female nucleus, forming a syn- 
karyon; fertilization is then complete, and in this condition 
the oocyst is passed from the original host and falls to the 
ground, where further development takes place. The zygote 
breaks up into a number of sporoblasts ; each sporoblast 
secretes a tough envelope, the sporocyst. Therefore, when 
sporogony is complete, the original oocyst contains four sporo- 
cysts, each containing two sporozoites. In order to develop 
further the oocyst must be swallowed by a new host, whereupon 
the tough membranes dissolve, liberating 1 the sporozoites. 

Coccidia are common parasites of vertebrates (rabbits and 
fowls), but are also found in invertebrates. 

Suborder Hsemogregarinidae, Although, strictly speaking, 
parasites of the blood of vertebrates, these parasites have been 
relegated, apparently on adequate grounds, to this suborder. 
Their life cycle in many particulars resembles that of the 
Adeleidffi in that the male and female gametocytes are asso- 
ciated, but diffei'S in that the sexual cycle is passed in an 
invertebrate host instead of in an oocyst on the ground. The 



941 

Haemogregarines are found in all classes of vertebrates, and 
are especially common in reptiles, amphibia, and fishes, but 
are also found in certain mammals, such as dogs, cats, rats, 
and the jerboa. They are sausage- shaped bodies with a large 
central nucleus, and lie encapsuled in the red blood-cells or 
even in the leucocytes (IT. canis and H. imiris}. They are not 




Fig. 243. H. seligmanni : en- 
cysted sporont, showing 
operculate capsule. (After 
Sambon.) 



Fig. 244. H. seligmanni : free 
sporont. (After Sambon.) 



amoeboid and no melanin is produced. The sporont, which is 
the form seen in the peripheral blood, is liberated from 
the corpuscle as a free vermicule, much resembling a small 
gregarine in appearance and in its gliding movements. 
Schizogony does not proceed in the blood, but, as in the case 
of the subtertian malaria parasite, in some internal organ in 



o 




Fig. 245. H. jaculi. (After Balfour.) 

a, Normal erytlirocyte of jerboa ; b, sporont ; c-h, schizogony within 
liver cells. 



the bone marrow in some animals ; but in the case of H.jacul. 
of the jerboa, and H. muris of the rat, in the liver cells 
(Fig. 245.) A number of merozoites are produced; this 
number varies. Two distinct types of merozoites are formed 
within different cells. In one type they are numerous and 
slender, and are then termed micro merozoites ; in the other they 
are few in number and stout,- and are then called macro- 
merozoites. The former, re-entering red cells, are destined to 



942 APPENDIX 

become sporonts ; the macromerozoites may again repeat the 
cycle and become once more macromerozoites or micromerozoites. 
These sporonts become differentiated into male and female 
gametocytes and appear in the circulating blood, but only 
develop further in the invertebrate host. In the intestine 
of the invertebrate the male and female gametes, having 
escaped from their cells as motile vermicules, become approxi- 
mated and fuse to form a zygote (but in the case of 
H. stepanowi of the tortoise four microgametes are first pro- 
duced by the male gamete). The zygote then apparently 
becomes an ookinete, encysts, and grows into a large oocyst 
containing a variable number of sporocysts, each of which 
contains six or eight sporozoites, which again in some manner 
pass into the intermediary host. In the case of the leech the 
exact manner in which this is performed is not known, but in 
the case of H. tnuris, which develops in the rat-mite (Lelaps 
echidninus], the mite is devoured by the rat, and the sporozoites, 
liberated in the rat's intestine, pass through the wall of the 
gut into the blood-stream, re-enter the liver cells, and become 
schizonts. 




Fig. 240. H, cauis ; cndocellular in leucocytes aiid free sporouts. 

( A ftt>v \Vonimtt \ 



(After Wenyo 

In the leucpcytic gregarines, of which the beat known is //. cania 
(Fig. 246), described by Christophers and Wenyon, schizogony takes place 
in the bone marrow and spleen of the dog, and is, as described above, of 
two distinct types. The macromerozoites in this case pass into the blood, 
are taken up by the leucocytes, and become gametocytes. Sporogony 
takes place in the body tissues of the tick Rhipicephalus sanguineus. 
The dog probably becomes infected by eating the tick. 

Suborder Adeleidae. This suborder is of little interest 
from the standpoint of human pathology. It consists of 
intracellular parasites of invertebrates which differ in their 
life-history from the foregoing in that the sporonts do not 
remain separate as in Coccidium schubergi, but associate in- 
pairs, the male sporont becoming attached to the female. 

Order iii. Haemosporidia 

These parasites are parasitic during the greater part of 
their life cycle ; but they exhibit, as do the hgemogregarines, 
an alternation of generation, sporogony generally taking 
place in the digestive tract of some invertebrate. 

The order comprises the genera Plastiiodium, Htemoproteus, 
Leucocytozoon, and Piroplasma. 

1. In the genus PLASMODIUM the young schizonts occur 
within red blood-cells, exhibit amueboid movement, and pro- 




v^ 2 ~*>> 
* zznuss*^ vg^? ^ Sambon 

Fig. 247. Plasmodium vivax : schema of entire life-cycle. 

duce a pigment called " melanin." The invertebrate host is 
generally a mosquito. Such are the parasites of human 
malaria the benign tertian Plasmodium vivax (Fig. 247), the 
benign quartan Plasmodium malaria, and the pernicious or 



944 APPENDIX 

subtertian Plasmodium falcipartim (formerly called Laverania 
malaria) (Fig. 248). All these human parasites undergo 
sporogony in mosquitoes of the genus Anopheles. Similar 
parasites are found in monkeys (Fig. 249), antelopes, bats, 
and squirrels. In birds an analogous and pernicious parasite 
is known as Proteosoma (Froteosoma grassii, Labbe, 1894), 
but, in contradistinction to the human malaria parasite, it is 
transmitted by mosquitoes of the genus Culicinae, and also by 
Siegomyia calopus. 

The life cycle of these parasites (Fig. 247) is extremely 
well known and has already been described in detail (p. 28). 




-Fig. 248. Plasmodium falciparum. 

The sporozoites, minute slender organisms, are introduced by 
the proboscis of the mosquito, and enter red blood-corpuscles. 
The young trophozoite is characterized by its signet - ring 
appearance, there being a large space in the centre of the body. 
As the parasite grows this space disappears, and the pigment 
is deposited in its protoplasm. When full grown, multi- 
plication by schizogony takes place. The nucleus, hitherto 
single, multiplies by repeated division, each daughter nucleus 
becoming the centre of a merozoite. A blood corpuscle con- 
taining a number of such merozoites represents the charac- 
teristic rosette of the malaria parasite. The host cell then 






Fig. 249. Plasmodium kochi. (After Luke.) From a monkey 
(Cercopithecus sabticus). 

ruptures, setting free the merozoites ; these penetrate other 
corpuscles and become trophozoites, which may either grow 
into schizonts or sporonts. These sporonts (gametocytes) 
are either male or female : the male forms have a large 
nucleus and a hyaline faintly-staining protoplasm ; the female 
forms have a smaller nucleus and a deeply staining proto- 
plasm. The sporonts are capable of further development only 
if taken up by the specific kind of mosquito. In the male the 
nucleus undergoas disintegration, and at the same time the 
fragments proceed to the periphery of the cell and become 
nuclei of a number of fine filaments or flagella, and two 
polar bodies are simultaneously extruded ; these flagella are 
endowed with motile powers, and break free from the cell as 
microgametes. In the meantime the female sporont, after 



PLASMODIUM H^EMOPROTEUS 945 

giving off a reduction nucleus, is ready for fertilization by 
the microgamete. The female cell (zygote) is capable of in- 
dependent movement, and (now termed an ookinete) bores its 
way through the lining epithelium of the mosquito's stomach, 
there encysts between the epithelium and the limiting mem- 
brane, and becomes an oocyst. The original nucleus now 
breaks up into sporoblasts, which in turn break up into sporo- 
zoites. The oocyst then bursts, setting free the sporozoites, 
which contrive to pass into the salivary glands, whence, with 
the salivary secretion, they once more enter the blood on 
which the infected mosquito is feeding. In the avian red 
blood-corpuscle the young sporont of proteosoma displaces the 
nucleus of the cell to one side in its growth, and thus may be 
distinguished from a similar stage in Halteridium. 

A form of pigment-producing plasmodium occurs in the 
blood of reptiles, and is known as Haemocystidium (Fig. 250). 
These parasites are of large size, are very numerous in the 
blood, and do not exflagellate when the blood is drawn. 
Nothing further is known of their life-history. 






Fig. 250. Hseinocystidium simondi. 

Toxoplasma, a parasite of small size inhabiting the eudothelial cells 
of the peritoneum of mono- and polymorphonuclear leucocytes, was dis- 
covered by Splendore in an epizootic amongst rabbits in Brazil. It has 
since been found in pigeons and in a rodent called the gondi (Ctenodactylus 
gondii) by Nicolle in Tunisia. Multiplication takes place by binary fission ; 
the nucleus is single ; no blepharoplast is present. From its morphology 
it is apparently allied to the haemamoebse, but has been relegated pro- 
visionally by Nuttall to the piroplasmata. 

2. Members of the genus H-^MOPROTEUS (also termed 
HALTERIDIUM) are parasitic in the blood of many widely dif- 
ferent species of birds, and perhaps also of turtles. Within the 
red blood-corpuscle they grow into a characteristic halter-like 
shape, partially enveloping but not displacing the nucleus of 
the corpuscle. In the halteridium of the pigeon the sexual cycle 
is passed in a hippoboscid fly, Lynchia maura, and is similar to 
that described above, but differs in one respect, namely, that the 
melanin pigment is extruded by the ookinete, which becomes 
considerably larger than the sporont found in the blood of 
the bird, and in this stage is apparently re-inoculated by the 
lynchia into the pigeon. Possibly the further development of 
the ookinete takes place within a capillary endothelial cell of 
the pigeon, but it is afterwards found within a leucocyte in 
the lung capillaries. In this leucocyte the parasite grows and 



946 



APPENDIX 



breaks up into a number of small forms or merozoites ; finally 
the leucocyte bursts, setting free the merozoites, which, enter- 
ing red blood-corpuscles, assume once more the typical shape 
of the sporonts. The male sporont is easily distinguished 
from the female by the larger size of its nucleus and by the 
faintly staining properties of its protoplasm. 

The life-cycle as worked out by Schaudiun was of an entirely different 
character. It is now known, that the blood of Athene noctua, the little 
owl, with which Schaudinn worked, contains a number of blood parasites, 
namely, a proteosome, a halteridium, two trypanosomes, a leucocytozoon, 
and a spirochsete. Schaudinu held that the trypanosomes, the leucocyto- 
zoon, and the spirochsete formed different stages of the same life-cycle. 

3. The genus LEUCOCYTOZOON of Daneliewsky must be 
carefully distinguished from the leucocytic haemogregarines 
to which allusion has already been made. The leucocytozoa 
are elongated oval bodies (Fig. 251), parasitic in the blood 
of birds. They modify the shape of the host cell, generally 
a mononuclear leucocyte. Male and female forms are recog- 
nized ; in the latter the protoplasm takes on a deep stain ; no 




Fig. 251. Leucocytozoon neavei. (AJter Neave.) From the guinea-fowl. 

pigment is formed , Schizogony takes place in the spleen of 
the bird. Exflagellation and fertilization of the gametocytes 
occur exactly as in tne malaria parasite, but their method of 
transmission and tne definitive host are still unknown. 

4. The genus PIROPLASMA consists of a number of minute 
oval or rod-like organisms, several of which are often con- 
tained in the one red blood-corpuscle. No pigment is pro- 
duced, but the corpuscle is destroyed, the haemoglobin set 
free and ultimately excreted by the kidneys of the host. 

The best-known piroplasm is Babesia bovis (or biyemina), 
the parasite of red-water fever of cattle. 

Piroplasma caballi causes biliary fever in horses; Pirc- 
plasma (Babesia) bovis, red- water or Texas fever in cattle ; 
Piroplasma canis (Fig. 252), malignant jaundice in dogs; while 
Piroplasma mutans is apparently a harmless parasite in the 
blood of African cattle. 

The typical piroplasma is a pear-shaped body dividing by 
a process of budding, and is found in the red corpuscles of 
oxen, of sheep, and of a number of wild animals. 

The genus Piroplasma has, for convenience' sake, been 
divided into a number of subgenera of doubtful validity. 



PIROPLASMA 947 

Theikria is the title reserved for a mimbor of bacillary 
or eoccoid forms. Theileria parva (Fig. 253) is the parasite 
of "East Coast fever " of African cattle. 

Another piroplasm, P. mutans, is commonly found in the 
blood of cattle suffering from "East Coast fever," together 
with the specific parasite Th. parva. In the case of the latter 
the forms in the blood consist entirely of gametocytes ; in 
P. mutant, on the other hand, the quadruple forms in the 




Fig. 252. Piroplasma canis. (After Nuttall.) 



erythi'ocytes apparently represent a stage of the schizogony. 
Therefore direct inoculation of blood containing Th. parva 
does not produce the disease, whereas infection with P. mutans 
invariably occurs, if schizonts of this species are present in 
the inoculated blood. The schizogonic stage of Th. parva is 
apparently passed in the internal organs such as the spleen. 
Splenic puncture in the diseased animals reveals bodies bearing 
a rough resemblance to a sporulating quartan malaria parasite 
known as " Koch's bodies " ; it is thought that these bodies, 
which are capable of reproducing the disease on re-inocula- 
tion, represent the schizogonic cycle in the splenic cells. 




Fig. 253. Theileria parva. (After Tlwiler.') 

Nut tall ia is a small oval or pear-shaped piroplasm, also 
multiplying in the form of a cross. Two kinds are known : 
one, N. equi, causes piroplasmosis in horses in southern 
Europe ; the other, N. herpestidis, is found in the mongoose. 

Anaplasma, a small eoccoid body, perhaps to be included 
with the piroplasms and apparently causing great destruction 
of the red cells, has been described by Theiler in cattle. 
These bodies are arranged either in the centre of the cell or 
radially ; hence the names A. centrale and A. marginal* have 
been applied to them. According to some authorities they are 
not parasites at all, but merely represent a degeneration of the 
red cell. 

Within the red cell the piroplasm consists of little save 
vacuolated protoplasm and a simple nucleus. The parasites 
are said to exhibit a certain amount of amu-boid movement, 
and, when free from the cell, to be capable of independent 



94$ 



APPENDIX 



locomotion. The development in the vertebrate host appears 
to proceed solely by either binary or quadruple fission. 

The transmission of the piroplasms is effected by ticks ; 
in the case of P. bovis it is adapted to the life-history of the 
transmitting tick (Ixodes reduvius or Magaropus australis), and 
in P. cams to Rhicephalus sangulnens. The tick is hatched first 
as a minute six-legged larva, which becomes an eight-legged 
nymph, differing from the adult only in the absence of genital 
organs. In each stage the tick feeds but once. The infection 
is passed to the ova by the infected female tick. The develop- 
mental stages of this parasite in the tick are little known ; 
apparently, according to Christophers and Koch, the parasites 
escape from their red cells and become transformed into star- 
shaped bodies representing the gametocytes. Conjugation 
of these bodies takes place, and when complete the zygote 
becomes a motile body resembling an ookinete. The ookinetes 
apparently penetrate into the ova of the tick, when they 







Fig. 254. Developmental forms of Piroplasma canis in tick's gut. (After 
Koch, Klein, and Christophers.) 

assume a globular shape. When the egg hatches into a six- 
legged larva these bodies break up into a number of sporo- 
blasts, which become scattered throughout its tissues. The 
sporoblasts divide in turn into a number of sporozoites re- 
sembling the pear-shaped forms seen in the blood ; these, 
according to Christophers and Gonder, contrive to enter the 
salivary glands, and thus re-enter the blood-stream when the' 
tick becomes adult and again feeds on blood. (Fig. 254.) 

Order iv Neosporidia 

Parasites belonging to this order are developed from small 
amcebulte within the body of the one host. No definitive 
host is known. The adult parasite is a large cyst contained 
Avithin a definite membrane and incapable of independent 
movement. The motile amccbula is followed by a plasmodial 
intracellular stage in which spore formation is commenced 
and is continued throughout the life of the parasite. The 
order is divided into two suborders: (1) the Cnidosporidia. 
characterized by the possession of polar capsules, and pear- 
shaped bodies provided with a spiral and delicate filament; 
(2) the Haptosporidia, in which those features are absent. 



NEOSPORIDIA INFUSORIA 949 

The life -history of Sarcocystls tenella, a Cnidosporidian, 
will be considered. It is a parasite of vertebrates, some- 
times occurring as a cystic white body, known as "Miescher's 
tubes," visible to the naked eye in the striped muscles of 
man. As a rule it produces no symptoms. The cyst con- 
tains a number of crescentic bodies (spores) ; in some cases 
these spores are motile ; each spore is provided with a 
nucleus situated at the blunt posterior end and a striated 
polar capsule at the anterior end. In this species the 
mode of propagation from one host to another is unknown, 
but mice can be infected by feeding on the bodies of others 
harbouring S. tnuris ; apparently in this case the spore germi- 
nates in the intestine of its host and sets free an anuebula 
which eventually reaches the striped muscle. In this situation 
the nuclei break up to form a plasmodium, and become the 
central points of many separate cells, called pansporoblasts 
or sporonts. These sporonts multiply actively and occupy the 
peripheral zone of the parasite, whereas the central portion 
is packed with spores in the process of differentiation. 

Of the Haptosporidia, one, Rhlnosporidlum klnealyl, is found 
in man in India. It gives rise to polypoid outgrowths from 
the septum nasi and from the external auditory meatus. 
The youngest parasites appear to be round cells provided 
with a cuticle and a single nucleus. By repeated division 
of this nucleus the parasite becomes a multinucleate plas- 
modium. The cyst contents become divided into pansporo- 
blasts in the centre, while the periphery contains the granular 
nuclei. The sporonts grow in size, and by repeated division 
form clusters of spores, a kind of a morula enclosed in a 
membrane. When ripe the cyst bursts and scatters its con- 
tents into the surrounding tissues. 

Nothing is known of the transmission of this parasite or 
the manner in which infection is acquired. 

Class IV. INFUSORIA 

The Infusoria are represented by BaJantidlum coti, an oval- 
shaped parasite belonging to the subclass Ciliata. The parasite 
measures about 60-1 00 /t in length by 50 p. in breadth. The 
body is clothed with a thick covering of cilia. There is a 
lobulated nucleus with a distinct micronucleus lying close to 
it. The protoplasm contains a variable number of contrac- 
tile vacuoles ; there is a definite anteriorly-situated cysto- 
some or mouth cavity. Nutrition is effected by ingestion of 
solid particles and by osmosis. The parasite reproduces itself 
asexually by transverse fission. Conjugation takes place by 
approximation of two individuals and by the exchange of 
certain nuclear elements ; after this has been effected the 
conjugants separate. Encystment may take place. 

BaJantidlum coli burrows into the submucosa and causes 
dysenteric symptoms known as balantidial dysentery (see 
p. 523). 



950 APPENDIX 

DOUBTFUL GROUPS 

Two groups of protozoal organisms of doubtful validity re- 
main to be considered, the Spirochaetes and the Chlamydozoa. 

1. The Spirochaetes 

Regarding the systemic position of the Spirochsetes a 
great deal of controversy has been waged during recent years 
(see p. 232). The group comprises a number of types, some 
of which are parasitic, others free-living forms, such as 
Spirochtcta plicatilis and Cristispira balbiani of the oyster. 
Both possess a crest running the entire length of the body ; 
this structure has been wrongly termed an " undulating 
membrane." 

The pathogenic spirochaetes are slender thread-like organ- 
isms containing chromatic material. Such are Sp. recurrentis 
(obcrmeieri), S. duttoni of relapsing fever, Sp. gallinarnm of 
fowls, etc. ; these species are ti-ansmitted by various kinds of 
ticks (Ornithodoros), bugs, and lice. In the case of S. duttoni 
the spirochaetes apparently break up in the body of the tick 
into very minute forms, and then pass into the egg, and so 
to the next generation of nymphs (see p. 236). 

For the spirochaetes of syphilis and yaws the name 
Treponema was proposed by Schaudinn;* the parasites are 
termed respectively T. pallidum and T. pertenue. 

2. The Chlamydozoa 

A name proposed by v. Prowazek to include a number of 
doubtful organisms, as the name implies. These problematic 
bodies are so minute that they are said to pass through a 
bacterial filter. They are parasites of epiblastic cells, but 
according to some authorities they merely represent a nuclear 
degeneration. 

It is enough to mention that such diseases as vaccinia, 
variola, trachoma, epithelioma contagiosa of birds, verruga 
Peruana, measles, and foot-and-mouth disease of animals, have 
been ascribed to the agency of these Chlamydozoa. 

* Schaudinn believed the spirochretes to be related to the trypanosomes. 
This conclusion was reached, it is believed, as the result of faulty observa- 
tions on the blood-parasites of the little owl, which have already been 
referred to. 



INDEX 



Abdominal diseases, 456 
Abscees of liver, 573 

adhesions in, 581 
amoebae in, 582, 584 

area of dullness in, 591 

diagnosis of, 596 

from malaria, 597 

discharging into serous 

cavity, treatment 
of, 608 

through lung, treat- 

ment of, 607 

duration of, 593 

encystment in, 583 
etiology of, 575 



Abscess of liver, treatment of, oy 
aspiration, 599 

operative, 601 

- author's me- 
thod, 603 

prognosis in, 

608 

postoperative, 606 
Acanthia lectularia, 235 
Acanthocheilonema perstans, 735 
Acarina, 245 
Acces pernicieux, 73 
Ackee poisoning, 909 
Adeleidae, 940 

Adenitis, non-venereal, 914 
Adrenalin in amoebic dysentery 
and liver abscess, 541 



age, and length of j Adynamic remittent malarial 



residence, 580 

predisposing con- 

ditions, 578 

race, sex, and 

climate, 577 

supplementary 

causes, 579 

geographical distribu- 

tion of, 573 

malaria and, 580 

micro-organisms in, 582, 

584 



mistaken for malaria, Aka mushi, 315 



fever, 73 
Ague, atypical, 56 

fit in malarial fever, 53 

relation of, to 
stages of 
parasite, 57 

types of, 56 

(see also Malaria) 

Ainhum, 919 

symptoms of, 920 

treatment of, 922 

Aino, 197 



597 

morbid anatomy of, 580 
- mortality of. 596 

pathology of, 584 

periodicity of fever in, 

from 



diagnosis of, 
malaria, 114 

pulmonary inflamma- 
tion in, 581 

pyogenic organisms in, 

582 

relation of, to dysentery, 



Alpine scurvy, 437 
Amblyopia, malarial, 75 

diagnosed from quinine 

amblyopia, 76 



Amoeba coli, 511, 514, 517 (foot- 



575 

rupture, of 594 

into bowel, 595 

into lung, 594 

into pericardium, 

595 

into peritoneum, 

595 

into pleura, 595 

into stomach, 595 

through skin, 596 

symptoms of, 586 

terminations of. 593 

treatment of, 599 



note), 519 (footnote), 550, 

927. 928 

diaphana, 517 (footnote) 
guttula, 517 (footnote) 
histolytica, 504, 511, 512, 517 

(footnote), 518, 529, 927, 928 
limax, 928 



oblonga, 517 (footnote) 

proteus, 517 (footnote) 

rectularis, 517 (footnote) 

terricola, 928 

tetragena (see Amoeba histo- 

lytica) 

- vermicularis, 517 (footnote) 
(see also Dysentery) 
Amoebae, method of isolating, 
from stools, 515 

methods of staining. 529 

Amphistomum hominis, 845 

- watsoni. 844 
Anaemia, endemic, 810 



951 



952 



INDEX 



Anakhre. 915 
Anaplasma centrale, 947 
marginale, 198, 947 
Anchylostomum (see Ankyjosto- 

mum) 
Anguillula intestinalis, 550, 839 

stercoralis, 839 

Animal parasites and associated 

diseases, 679 
Ankylostomiasis, 824 

campaign against, in United 

States, 834 (footnote) 
convalescence in, 833 

diagnosis of, 828 

history of, 824 

pathological anatomy and 

pathology of, 829 

prophylaxis of, 833 

symptoms of, 826 

treatment of, 830 

Ankylostomum braziliense, 824 
ceylanicum, 824 

dermatitis, 835 

duodenale, 816 

description of, 817 

examination of faeces 

for ova of, 810 

- geographical distribu- 
tion of, 816 
nomenclature of, 816 

ova of, 810, 818 

reproduction and mode 

of infection of, 818 
Anopheles, generic characters of, 
148 

maculipennis, 20 

species of, that foster mala- 
ria parasites, 152 

subgenera of, 150 

Anophelini, characters of, 147 
Anti-choleraic inoculation, 482 
Anti-hookworm campaign, 834 

(footnote) 

Anti-typhoid inoculation, 378 
Antimony in trypanosomiasis, 

180 
in ulcerating granuloma of 

pudenda, 678 
Aphthae tropicse, 549 
Argas, 228 

miniatus, 235, 246, 247, 249 

persicus, 235, 246, 249 

Argasidae, 246 

Ascaris lumbricoides, 812 

mode of infection of, 812 
ova of, in faeces, 808, 

810 

symptoms of, 813 

treatment of, 815 

trichiura, 811 

Aspergillus bouffardi, 878 

flavescens, 445 
fumigatus, 444, 445 

in pinta, 893 

nidulans, 878 

varians, 445 

Asturian leprosy, 437 
r- rose, 437 



Athene noctua, 932, 946 
Atoxyl in kala-azar. 217 

in pellagra, 455 

in relapsing fever, 243 

in trypanosomiasis, 179, 188 

Atypical agues, 56 
Auchmeromyia luteola, 905 



B 



Babesia bigemina, 246, 294 

bovis, 31, 946 

canis, 31, 246 

oyis, 246 

Babesiae, transmission of, 31 
Bacillus coli, action of, on maize, 
443 

dysenteries, 504, 505 
and allied organisms, 

cultural characters 
of, 507, 509 

method of isolating, 

from stools, 530 
leprse, characters of, 631 

discovery of, 613 

distinguished from 

tubercle bacillus, 632 

experimental inocula- 

tion with, 640 

in nasal mucous mem- 

brane, 617 

staining of, 632 
theories concerning, 634 

of cholera (see Cholera, germ 

of) 

pellagrae," 445 

pestis, characters of, 323 

culture of, 324 
discovery of, 323 

extracorporeal, vitality 

of, 344 (footnote) 

modifications of viru- 

lence of, 325 

pyocyaneus in dysentery, 504, 

508 

typhosus, 378, 506 

Bacterium coli commune in 
abscess of liver, 
583, 584 

in dysentery, 505 

dysenteriae, 505 

cuenoti, 234 

" maydis," 444 

Bagdad boil, 219 

Balantidium coli, 504, 523, 949 

Balfour's infective granule, 231 

Barbeiro, 192 

Barbiers, 407 

Bass's method of cultivating 

malaria parasite, 48 
Bengalia depressa, 905 
Beriberi, 407 

age and, 418 

asylum, 420 

- cardiac attacks in, 417 
cholesterin and, 428 (foot- 
note) 



INDEX 



953 



Beriberi, classification of, 418 

climatic conditions and, 418 

diagnosis of, 427 

dropsical cases of, 412 

erroneous diagnoses of, 415 

etiology of, 418 

geographical distribution of, 

407 

heart and circulation in, 411 

history of, 407 

mixed paraplegic and dropsi- 

cal cases of, 414 

mode of death in, 242 

morbid anatomy of, 424 

mortality of, 427 

occupation and, 418 

overcrowding and, 419 

paraplegic cases of, 409 

pathology of, 424 

prognosis of, 426 

sex and, 418 
- ship, 419 

symptoms of, 408 
treatment of, 428 

'uncertain course of, 416 

vitamine and, 424 
Bicho, 544 

Big heel, 922 

Bile-sickness, 198 

Bilharziosis (see Haematuria, en- 
demic) 

Biliary cirrhosis, infantile, 609 

Bilious remittent malaria, diag- 
nosis of, from yellow 
fever, 115 
malarial fever, 72 

Black sickness (see Kala-azar) 

spores, 103 

vomit in yellow fever, 262 
Blackwater fever, 275 

" chrome cells " in, 284 

(footnote) 

- diagnosis of, 287 

distribution of, 275, 277 

epidemiology of, 278 

etiology of, 280 

incubation period of, 284 

length of residence and, 

279 

malarial theory of, 280 

mortality of, 287 

post - mortem appear- 

ances of, 287 

- predisposing causes of, 

278 

prophylaxis of, 291 
quinine theory of, 282 

seasonal prevalence of. 

277 

specific theory of, 283 

symptoms of, 285 

- treatment of, 288 
Blastomycosis, 882 

diagnosis of. 883 
forms of, 883 

treatment of, 884 

Blood films, preparation of, 32, 
42 



Blood films in malaria, 81 

microscopical examina- 
tion of, 32 
Bodo, 928 
Boils, 867 

treatment of, 868 
Borax-methylene blue stain, 43 
Bordet-Gengou reaction in cho- 
lera, 488 
Bothriocephalus liguloides, 790 

mansoni, 790 

Bouffard's black mycetorna, 878 

white mycetoma, 880 
Bouton d'Orient, 219 
Brassy bodies, 65 
Breakbone fever, 293 
Brumpt's white mycetoma, 879 
Bubas Braziliana (see Leishmani- 

asis Americana) 
Bulinus contortus, 745 

dybowski, 745 

innesi, 745 

Burdwan fever, 203 

Burri's indian-ink method, 231 



Calabar swellings, 786 

Calliphora vomitoria, 860 (figure) 

Calymmatobacterium granuloma- 
tis, 674 

Carbol-thionin stain, 43 

Cardiac degeneration in malaria, 
98 

Caribi, 544 

Catoblepas gnu, 196 

Ceratophyllus fasciatus, 332 (foot- 
note), 931, 936 

Ceratopogon, 449 

Cercomonas, 928 

Cercopithecus, 178 

Cerebral capillaries, embolism of, 
in malaria, 74 

Cestodes, 851 

affections due to, 851 

Ceylon sore mouth, 549 

Chappa, 913 

Chaulmoogra oil in leprosy. 646 

Cheiracanthus siamensis, 843 

Cheironomidae, 146, 449, 934 

Chigger, 896 

Chlamydozoa, 950 

Cholera, 456 

algide stage of, 471 

ambulatory, 473 

carriers, 488 

diagnosis of, 477 

bacteriological, 478 

epidemiology of, 456 
- etiology of, 457 

geographical distribution of, 

456 

germ of, 462 

detection of, in stools, 

478 

- variability of. 468 
history of, 456 



954 



INDEX 



Cholera, hyperpyrexia in, 474 

immunity from, 458 

incubation period of, 481 

isolation in, 458 

local conditions favouring, 

459 
morbid anatomy of, 474 

mortality of, 479 

pathology of, 474 

personal prophylaxis of, 484 
precautions in, 488 

quarantine prevention of, 

479 

reaction, stage of, 472 

sequelae of, 474 
sicca. 473 

symptoms of, 470 

treatment of, 485 

typhoid, 472 

water-borne, 459 
Choleraic form of algide malarial 

fever, 75 
Cholerine, 473 
Cholesterin, and beriberi, 428 

(footnote) 
" Chrome cells " in blackwater 

fever, 284 (footnote) 
Chrysomyia macellaria, 901 
Chrysops dimidiata, 782 

silacea, 782 

Chylous diarrhoea, 734 

dropsy, 734 
Chyluria, 718 

causes of, 720 

pathology of, 718 

symptoms of, 718 
- treatment of, 720 

Ciliata, 949 

Cimex boueti, 191 (footnote) 

lectularius, 191 (footnote) 

rotundatus, 221 (footnote), 

936 

Cirrhosis, infantile biliary, 609 
Citellus beechyi, 331 

columbianus, 313 
Cladorchis watsoni, 844 
Clarias angolensis, 201 (footnote) 
Climatic bubo. 914 
Clonorchis endemicus, 801, 804 

sinensis, 801 

ova of, in faeces, 803 

Clou de Gafsa, 219 
Cnidosporidia, 948 
Coccidia, 940 

Coccidium schubergi, 940, 942 
Coenogonimus heterophyes, 848 
Coko, 652 

Coma, malarial, 74 
Comma bacillus, 462 
Conradi-Drygalski medium, com- 
position of, 530 (footnote) 
Cordylobia anthropophaga, 904 
Corethrinse, 148 

Cotylogonimus heterophyes, 848 
Craw-craw, 911 
etiology of, 911 

symptoms of, 912 

treatment of, 913 



i Cristispira balbiani, 950 

Crithidia, 934, 936 

Cryptococcus xanthqgenicus, 254 

Ctenocephalus canis, 211, 334, 
931 

Ctenodactylus gondii, 945 

Ctenopsylla musculi, 332 (foot- 
note) 

Culex albopunctatus, 153 

fatigans, 102, 141 (figure), 142 

(figure) 

and dengue, 295 

and Filaria bancrofti, 

687, 690 

penicillaris, 153 
pipiens, 152 (figure), 153 

pulchritarsis, 153 

vexans, 153 
Culicidee, 137 

sub-families of, 146 

Culicinse, 147, 148, 274 
Culicini, 147 
Culicoides. 449 



Danysz's bacillus, 354 
Davainea asiatica, 859 

madagascariensis, 857 

characters of, 857 

distribution of, geo- 
graphical, 857 

zoological, 857 

- history of, 857 

pathogenesis of, 858 
Delhi boil, 219 
Dengue, 293 

defervescence in, 297 
- desquamation in, 299 

diagnosis of, 302 

eruption of, 298 
etiology of, 294 

- geographical distribution of, 
293 

germ of. 294 

incubation period of, 296 

initial fever and eruption in, 

296 

meteorological conditions 

and, 295 

mode of spread of, 293 
- morbid anatomy of, 302 

mortality of, 301 

relapses in, 301 

rheumatoid pains in, 300 

symptoms of, 296 

terminal fever and eruption 

in, 298 

treatment of, 302 

variability of epidemic type 

of, 301 
Dermacentor andersoni (see Der- 

macentor venustus) 

maturatus, 313 

occidentalis, 313 (footnote) 

reticulatus, 246, 313 (foot- 

note) 



INDEX 



955 



Dermacentor veiiustus, 310, 313, 

314 

Dermatobia cyaniventris, 903 
Dermatophilidse, 360 
Dermatophilus penetrans, 896 
Dermatose parasitaire, 912 
Dermotagra, 437 
Dhobie's itch, 884 

diagnosis of, 886 

prophylaxis of, 886 

treatment of, 887 
Diarrhoea alba, 549 

- hill, 546 

Dibothriocephalus latus, 852 
Dibothrium mansoni, 790 
Dicrocaelium buski, 846 
heterophyes, 848 

lanceatum, 848 
Dionisi's discovery of malaria 

parasites in bats, 30 
Diplacanthus nanus, 854 
Diplodia zeae, 445 
Diplogonoporus grandis, 852 
Dirofilaria immitis, 696, 699, 702 
Discomyces bovis, 877 

madurae, 878 

Disease of the Landes, 437 
Distoma buski, 846 

conjunctum, 801 

heterophyes, 848 

innocuum, 801 

japonicum, 801, 804 

pulmonale, 794 
- pulmonis, 794 

- rathouisi, 846' 

- ringeri, 794 

- sinense, 801 

- spathulatum, 801 

westermani, 794 
Dochmius duodenalis, 816 
Double continued fever, 386 
Dourine, 197 

Dracunculus medinensis, 766, 772 
characters of, 767 

geographical distribu- 

tion of, 766 
- habits of, 768 

larva of, 771 

mode of infection of, 

773 
oculi, 776 

persarum, 766 
Dropsy, epidemic, 433 

etiology of, 434 

geographical distribu- 

tion of, 433 

morbid anatomy of, 436 
- symptoms of, 435 

treatment of, 436 
Dum-dum fever, 203 
Dysenteric form of algide malaria] 

fever, 7? 
- treatment 

of, 129 

Dysentery, 490 
age and, 527 

amoebic, 510 



Dysentery, amoebic, distinguished 
from bacillary, 523, 527 

pathology of, 520 

treatment of, 533 

and liver abscess, connec- 

tion between, 575 

anomalous types of, 495 

appendicitis in, 497 

- bacillary, 504, 505 

distinguished from amoe- 
bic, 523, 527 

pathology of, 508 

treatment of, 535 

balantidium, 504 

treatment of, 525 

catarrhal, morbid anatomy 

of, 488 
symptoms of, 492 

chronic, lesions in, 502 

symptoms of, 494 

treatment of, 539 

surgical, 541 

classification of, according to 

parasite, 504 

constipation after, treatment 

of, 542 

diagnosis of, 527 

epidemic, 505 

etiology of, 503 

food and clothing in, 542 

fulminating, morbid ana- 

tomy of, 500 

symptoms of, 493 

gangrenous, morbid anatomy 

of, 499 

symptoms of, 496 

geographical distribution of, 

490 

germs of, 504 

capacity of, for latency, 

527 
how carried, 525, 526 

- haemorrhage in, 496 

healing process in, 502 

- hepatitis in, 497 
treatment of, 543 

- intussusception in, 497 

- kala-azar, 504 

liver and mesenteric glands 

in, 503 

malarial, 504 

treatment of, 532 

- morbid anatomy of, 498 

mortality of, 497 

occupation and, 527 

perforation in, 496 

polypoid growth in, 503 

predisposing causes of, 527 

primary lesion in, 501 

prophylaxis of, 543 

protozoal, 504 

recurring, 494 

relapsing, 494 

relation of abscess of liver 

to, 575 

scorbutic, treatment of, 532 

sequelae of, 497 



956 



INDEX 



Dysentery, sex and, 527 

sprue secondary to, 555 

symptoms of, 491 

tetragena cysts in, 519 

treatment of, 531 

by antiserum, 538 

by aperient sulphates, 

by bismuth and opium, 

by calomel, 536 

by cinnamon, 537 

by emetine, 534, 540 

bismuth iodide, 540 

by intestinal antisep- 

tics, 537 
- by ipecacuanha, 533 

by kho-sam, 537 

by Monsonia ovata, 537 

by. simaruba, 536 
- food in, 532 

rest in, 531 

types of, 504 

ulcerative, morbid anatomy 

of, 499 

symptoms of, 493 
verminous, 504 



Echinococcus granulosus, 852 
Echinostomum ilocanum, 850 
malayanum, 851 
Eimeriidea, 940 
Eimeriinea, 940 
El becho, 544 
Elephantiasis, 721 

grseoorum (see Leprosy) 

of arms, 730 

of legs, 723 

Handley's operation for, 

724 

Kondoleon's operation 

for, 725 

Lanz's operation for, 

725 

of limited skin areas, 733 

of scrotum, 725 

anatomical characters 

of, 726 
treatment of, 727 

of vulva and mammae, 730 

pathology of, 706 

sequence of events in, 709 
Elephantoid fever, 711 
Embolism of cerebral capillaries 

in malaria, 74 

Emetine bismuth iodide in dysen- 
tery, chronic, 540 

hydrochloride in dysentery, 

acute, 534 

chronic, 540 

Endemic glandular fever, 390 

haematuria (sec Haematuria, 

endemic) 

haemoptysis (see Haemoptysis, 

endemic) 



Endemic hypertrophy of os calcis, 

922 
Endermophyton concentricum, 890 

indicum, 890 
Entamoeba (see Amoeba) 
Eosin-azur stain, 45 
Epidemic dropsy, 433 
etiology of, 434 

geographical distribu- 

tion of, 433 
- history of, 433 

morbid anatomy of, 436 

symptoms of, 435 

treatment of, 436 

gangrenous rectitis, 544 
Eriocheir japonica, 798 
Espundia, 225 
Eugregarinae, 939 



Faeces, examination of, for ova of 

intestinal parasites, 808 
Famine fever, 228 
Fannia canicularis, 860 
scalaris, 860 

Fasciola hepatica, ova of, in 
faeces, 808 

lanceolata, 848 
Fascioletta ilocana, 850 
Fasciolopsis buski, 846 

ova of, in faeces, 808, 847 

rathouisi, 847 

Febris recurrens, 228 

undulans . (see Undulant 

fever) 
Fever, double continued, 386 

endemic glandular, 390 

hyperpyrexial, 388 
.._ low, 385 

- McCarrison's, 304 

non-malarial remittent, 385 

of Indian ports, seven-days', 

389 

pseudo-typhus of Deli, 390 

simple continued, 385 
Fevers, tropical, imperfectly dif- 
ferentiated, 
384 

classification 

of, 384 

diagnosis of, 

390 

treatment of, 

391 

Filaria bancrofti and Culex fati- 
gans, 687, 690 

dimensions of, 741 

discovery of, 679 

female, 701 

geographical distribu- 

tion of, 681 

male, 701 

- bourgi, 776, 785 

demarquaii, 680 

diurna, 680, 776 

dracunculus, 766 



INDfcX 



957 



Filaria equina, 777, 783 

immitis, 103 

labiato-papillosa, 783 

loa, 776 

magalhaesi, 680, 741 

medinensis, 766 

nocturna, 680, 681 

oculi, 776 

ozzardi, 680, 738, 741 

perstans, 176, 680 

characters of, 735 

geographical range of, 

735 
life-history of, 736 

presence of, in sleeping 

sickness, 176 
philippensis, 690 

sanguinis hominis, 679, 681 

sheath of, purp9se of, 699 

subconjunctivalis, 776 
- - volvulus, 787 

wuchereri, 681 

(see also Microfllaria) 

Pilariae, metamorphosis of, in 

mosquito, 698 

parental forms of, 700 

table of dimensions of, 741 

Filarial abscess, 710 

diseases, enumeration of, 710 

prophylaxis of, 734 

orchitis, 721 

periodicity, 685 

synovitis, 721 

Pilariasis, 679 

history of, 679 

morbid anatomy and path- 

ology of, 703 

prophylaxis of, 734 

- varieties of, 710 
Fixation-of-complement reaction 

in cholera, 488 
Flagella of malaria parasite, 8, 

16, 28 

Flagellata, 928 

Flagellated body in malarial 
blood, 37 

staining of, 46 

Flea, rat (see Rat flea) 
Fleas, characters of, 359 
- synopsis of, 360 
Flema salada, 437 
Framboesia, 652 
Fucellia, 212 

Fungous skin diseases, 871 
Furunculosis, 867 



Galziekte, 198 

Gametes, 28, 926 

Gametocytes, 28, 926 

Gangosa, 662 

Gangrenous rectitis, epidemic, 544 

Gastric form of algide malarial 

fever, 75 

Gastrodiscoides hominis, 845 
General diseases of undetermined 

nature, 407 



Giemsa's stain, 45 
Gigantorhynchus moniliformis, 

807 

Glossina brevipalpis, distribution 
of, 199 

caliginea, distribution of, 199 

development of trypanosomes 

in, 933 

fusca, 196 

distribution of, 199 

longipalpis, development of 

trypanosomes in, 932 

distribution of, 199 

longipennis, 197 

- distribution of, 199 

- morsitans, 156, 168, 185, 186, 

187, 188, 196 

development of trypano- 

somes in, 932 

distribution of, 199 

pallicera, distribution of, 199 
- pallidipes, 196 

distribution of, 199 

palpalis as transmitter of 

trypanosomiasis, 155, 
162, 164, 168, 182, 185, 
186, 187, 202 

development of Trypano- 

soma gambiense in 
932, 933 
digestive tract of, 165 

distribution of, 199 

tachinoides, development of 

trypanosomes in, 932 

distribution of, 199 

Glossinse, 198, 932 

Austen's classification of, 200 

distribution of, 199 

- habits of, 202 

Newstead's classification of, 

199 (footnote) 

- reproduction of, 202 
Gnathostomum spinigerum, 843 
Goundou, 915 

symptoms of, 916 

Gregarinidea, 939 
" Gros nez," 915 
Guinea-worm, 766 

prophylaxis of, 776 

treatment of, 775 

(see also Dracunculus medi- 

nensis) 



Haemadipsa ceylonica, 907 
Haernaphysalis leachi, 246 
Haematobia, 195, 199 
Hsematopinus spinulosus. 931 
Hsematopota, 198, 212 
HaBmatoxylin and eosin stain, 43 
Haematuria, endemic, 742 

diagnosis of, 752 

etiology of, 743 

history and geographical 

distribution of, 742 

pathological anatomy 

of, 750 



958 



INDEX 



Haematuria, endemic, prevention 
of, 755 

prognosis of, 753 
symptoms of, general, 

748 

treatment of, 754 

(see also Schistosomum) 
Haematuric fever, 275 
Hsemocystidium simondi, 945 
Haemocystozoon braziliense, 957 
Haemoflagellata, 929 

nomenclature of, 936 
Haemoglobinsemia in malaria, 87 
Haemoglobinuria in malaria, 88 
Haemoglobinuricr fever, 275 
Haemogregarina canis, 941, 942 

- jaculi, 941 
muris, 941, 942 

seligmanni, 941 

stepanowi, 942 
Hsemogregarinidse, 940 
Haemopis sanguisuga, 908 
Haemoproteus, 945 
Haemoptysis, endemic, 794 

diagnosis of, 798 

geographical distribu- 
tion of, 794 
history of, 794 

parasite of, 794 

pathological anatomy of, 

795 

prophylaxis of, 797 

symptoms of, 795 

treatment of, 797 
Hoemorrhagic form of algide mal- 
arial fever, 77 

Haemosporidia, 942 
Haffkine's cholera inoculations, 482 
results of, in Balk- 
an and European 
Wars, 484 

plague inoculations, 356 

Halteridium, 945 
Haptosporidia, 948 
Heat-apoplexy, 395 
Heat-exhaustion, 393 

etiology of, 393 
symptoms of, 394 

treatment of, 394 

Heat-stroke, 392 

prevention of, 404 
Helcosoma tropicum, 220 
Helix pomatia, 934 

" Henpurge," 918 

Herpetic eruptions in malarial 

cachexia, 94 
Herpetomonas, 212 
Heterophyes aegyptiaca, 848 

heterophyes, 848 

yokagawa, 849 
Hill diarrhrea, 546 

distribution of, 546 

etiology and pathology 

of, 546 

symptoms of, 547 

treatment of, 548 
Hippobosca maculata, 198 
- ruflpee, 198, 931 



Hippoboscidae, 201 
Histoplasma capsulatum, 938 
Hoplopsyllus anomalus, 331 
Hydrochserus capybara, 198 
Hyinenolepis murina, 854 
- nana, 854 

characters of, 854 

development 01, 855 

distribution of, geogra- 

phical, 854 
zoological, 854 
history of, 854 

pathogenesis of, 856 

treatment of, 856 
Hyperparasitism in malaria, 103 
Hyperpyrexia, malarial, 73 

treatment of, 128 
Hyperpyrexial fever, 388 
Hypoderma, 198 



Indian Plague Commission, 333, 
335 

sickness, 544 
Indiella mansoni, 879 

reynieri, 880 
somaliensis, 880 

Infantile biliary cirrhosis, 609 
Infective granule of Balfour, 231 
granulomatous diseases, 611 
Infusoria, 927, 949 
Inoculation, prophylactic, in 
cholera, 482 

in plague, 356 

in relapsing fever, 245 

in typhoid fever, 378 
Intermittent malarial fever, 53 
Intestinal affections in malarial 

cachexia, 95 

myiasis, 859 

parasites (see Parasites, in- 

testinal) 
Ixodes reduvius, 245, 948 

ricinus, 314 
Ixodidae, 246 



Janthinosoma lutzi, 904 
Japanese river fever, 315 

distribution of, 315 

etiology of, 315 

history of, 315 

mortality of, 317 

pathological ana- 

tomy of, 317 

symptoms of, 316 

treatment of, 318 
Jenner's stain, 44 
Julia-articular nodiiles, 919 



Kakka (see Beriberi) 
Kala-azar, 203 

and oriental sore, 218 

diagnosis of, 215 



INDEX 



959 



Kala-azar, epidemiology of, 206 
etiology of, 208 

history of, 204 

incubation period of, 213 

mode of transmission of, 211 

mdrbid anatomy of, 215 

of lower animals, 211 

parasite of, 209 

predisposing causes of, 213 

prophylaxis of, 218 

symptoms of, 213 
treatment of, 217 

with antimony, 217 

Kaladunkh (see Kala-azar) 
Katayama disease, 764 
Kerandel's symptom, 169 
Klein's methods of bacteriological 
diagnosis of cholera, 478 

prophylactic for plague, 357 

" Koch's bodies," 947 



Lagochilascaris major, 815 

minor, 815 

Lamblia infection, 525 

intestinalis, 525, 939 

Lamus (Oonorhinus) megistus, 156, 

188, 192, 934 
Laverania immaculata, 67, 78 

malarias, 68, 78 

- praecox, 67, 78 
Laveran's staining method, 45 
Leeches as pests, 907 
Leishman body, 203, 209 
Leishmania, 203, 208, 935 

donovani, 203, 209, 211, 219, 

221, 504, 935, 936 

infantum, 206 (footnote), 208 

parasites resembling, 937 

tropica, 219, 935, 936 
Leishmaniasis, 203 

Americana, 225 
Irishman's stain, 45 
Lelaps echidninus, 942 
Leprosy, 611 

- age and, 638 

bacillus (see Bacillus leprae) 

climate and, 638 

contagiousness of, 642, 645 

diagnosis of, 636 

etiology of, 638 

cured-fish theory of, 644 

geographical distribution of, 

613 

heredity and, 640 
history of, 611 

- in rats, 634 

leproma in, 622, 634 

mixed, 621, 631 

- nerve, 625 

prognosis of, 638 

nodular, 622 

prognosis of, 638 

occupation and, 638 

pathological anatomy of, 631 
prevention of, 644 



Leprosy, prognosis of, 638 
rise of modern knowledge of, 
613 

sex and, 638 

social and hygienic condi- 

tions and, 638 

stages of, 617 

incubation period, 618 

primary exanthem, 620 
infection, 617 

prodromata, 618 

specific deposit, 621 

symptoms of, 615 

treatment of, 645 

; by drugs, 646 

by nastin, 649 

by nerve-stretching, 648 

- by tuberculin, 647 
hygienic, 645 

vaccination and, 645 
Leptoconops, 449 
Leptodera intestinalis, 839 

stercoralis, 839 

Leptomonas, 934, 936 
Leptus autumnalis, 315 
Leucocytozoon, 946 

ziemanni, 233 

Leucopodia guntheri, 804 
Lichen tropicus, 861 

Light treatment of oriental sore, 

225 

Ligula mansoni, 790 
Linguatula armillata, 805 

constricta, 805 

taenoides, 807 

Lithobius forficatus, 940 
Liver, abscess of (see Abscess of 
liver) 

blood of, in malaria, 85 

enlargement of, in kala-azar, 

215 
in trypanosomiasis, 172 

in malaria, 83 

in malarial cachexia, 97 

parasites of, 800 

tropical (see Tropical liver) 
Loa loa, 776 

characters of, 779 

distribution of, geogra- 

phical, 778 
zoological, 779 

- history of, 776 

larva of, 780 

life-history of, 782 

pathogenesis of, 785 
Local diseases of uncertain na- 
ture. 911 

Loffler's methylene blue stain, 43 

Low fever, 385 

Lund's larva, 905 

Lustig's injections for plague, 356 

Lymph scrotum, 716 

Lymphangitis and elephantoid 

fever, 711 

Lymphatic trunks, thickened, 715 
- varicea cutaneous and deeper, 
715 



960 



INDEX 



Lymphatic varix, pathology of, 

704 

Lynchia maura, 945 
Lyperosia, 199 

M 

McCarrison's fever, 304 

Macrogametes, 28, 926 

Macrornerozoites, 941 

Madura foot (see Mycetoma) 

Madurella mycetomi, 879 

Magaropus australis, 948 

Main-en-griffe, 629 

Maize theory of pellagra, 444 

Maizina, 443 

Mai de caderas, 198 

de la rosa, 437 

du coit, 197 

rosso, 437 
Malaria, 1 

acclimatization and, 109 

acquired immunity from, 109 
age and, 108 

bilious remittent, diagnosis 

of, from yellow 
fever, 115 
treatment of, 127 

blood in, 81 

cardiac degeneration in, 98 

- - cause of fever and of period- 
icity in, 90 

communicability of, 109 

definition of, 1 

diagnosis of, 113 

from other paroxysmal 

fevers, 116 

from typhoid fever, 116 
from yellow fever, 115 

periodicity in," 114 

diagnostic value of " zone of 

free haemoglobin " in, 37 

dysenteric attacks of, treat- 

ment of, 129 

etiology of, 100 

(see also Malaria para- 

sites, and Malaria, 
mosquito and) 

flagellated bodies in blood in, 

37 
food and drink in, 131 

hsemoglobinuria in, 88 
histology of, 4 

history of, 1 . 

hyperparasitism in, 103 

infection, disturbance of soil 

and, 107 

endemic and epidemic 

fluctuations of, 101 
geographical range in, 

100 

influence of altitude in, 

103 

of atmospheric tem- 

perature in, 103 

of decomposing ve- 

getable matter in, 
104 



Malaria infection, influence of 
latitude and sea- 
son in, 101 

of local conditions 

in, 101, 106 

of meteorological 

conditions in, 108 

of moisture in, 104 

- of rainfall in, 105 

of subsoil moisture 

in, 104 

- of winds in, 105 
time of day and, 106 

leucocytes in, 89 

microscopical examination of 

blo9d in, 32, 35 
morbid anatomy of, 83 

mosquito and, 137 
theory of, 17 

occupation and, 108 

parasites as means of diag- 

nosis, 41 

benign, 50 

changes of, in human 

cycle, 5 

characters of, 78 

classification of, clinical, 

51 
principles of, 50 

complete cycles of, in 

man and birds, 28 

crescent body of, 10 

cultivation of, 48 

endogenous cycle of, 28 

exogenous cycle of, 28 

extracorporeal phase of, 

7 

possibility of 

another, 30 

flagellated body of, 7 

formation of, 

13 

source of, 10 
in mosquito, 7, 21 

encysted or zygote 

stage of, 23 
sporozoite or infec- 
tive stage of, 25 

travelling vermicule 

stage of, 21 

intracorporeal phase of. 

4 
- latent phase of, 29 

malignant, 50, 64 

common characters 

of, 64 
crescent body of, 65 

morphology of, 4 

quartan, 51 

quotidian, 51 

structure of, in human 

cycle, 6 

subtertian, 51 

tertian, 51 

transference of, to hu- 

man host, 26 

pathognornonic signs of, 113 

periodicity of, 90 



INDEX 



961 



Malaria, pernicious attacks of, 
necessity for microscopical 
examination of blood in, 
117 

phagocytosis in, 38 

spleen in, 85 

pigment in, 83 

extravascular, 86 

nature and source of, 84 

yellow, 87 

pigmented leucocytes in, 38 
lymphocytes in, 38 

polycholia and hsemoglobinse- 

mia~in, 87 
preparation of films in, 32, 42 

proof of parasitic nature of, 2 

prophylactics in, 135, 136 
red corpuscles in, 88 

sex and, 108 

ship, 101 

staining of blood in, 41 

treatment of, 119 
by quinine, 119 

by various drugs, 129 

prophylactic, 132 

Malarial amblyopia, 75 

cachexia, pathology and path- 

ological anatomy of, 

symptoms of, 91 

treatment of, 130 

coma, 74 

fever, adynamic remittent, 73 

algide, pernicious at- 

tacks of, 
75 

treatment 

of, 129 

bilious remittent, 72 
cerebral, pernicious at- 
tacks of, 73 

clinical forms of, 70 

phenomena of, 53 

embolism of cerebral 

capillaries in, 74 

intermittent, 53 
cold stage of, 54 

duration of fit in, 

54 

hot stage of, 54 

premonitory stage 

of, 53 

sweating stage of, 

54 

malignant, 64 
characters of, 66 

microscopical exam- 

ination of blood 
in, 70 

pernicious attacks of, 73 

quartan, 58 

ague fit in, 60 

geographical distri- 
bution of, 60 

parasite of, 58 

quotidian, 66 

parasite of, 67 

remittent types of, 72 

2 F 



Malarial fever, subtertian, 68 
geographical distri- 
bution of, 69 

parasite of, 68 

tertian, 61 

ague fit in, 63 

geographical distri- 
bution of, 63 
parasite of, 61 
typhoid remittent, 72 

hyperpyrexia, 73 

treatment of, 128 

neuroses and skin affections, 

93 

toxin, acquired tolerance of, 

92 

Malignant malarial fevers, 64 
Malta fever (see Undulant fever) 
Mangrove flies as intermediary of 

Loa loa, 782 

Mannaberg's classification of ma- 
laria parasites, 50 
Margaropus annulatus, 246 

australis, 246 

bovis, 246 

decoloratus, 246 

Mastigophora, 926 

subclasses of, 928 

Mbori, 195 

Mbu fever, 17 

Mediterranean fever (see Undu- 
lant fever) 

Megarhini, 147 

Melania libertina, 802 
obliquegranulosa, 802 

Melanoglossia in malarial ca- 
chexia, 92 

Melanuric fever (see Blackwater 
fever) 

Merozoites, 28, 925 

Mesogonimus heterophyes, 848 

pulmonalis, 794 

ringeri, 794 

westermani, 794 

Metagonimus yokagawai, 849 
Metorchis conjunctus, 800 
Micrococcus melitensis, 305, 362, 

364, 371, 373 

Microfilaria bancrofti, description 
of, 683 

discovery of, 679 

non-periodic, 689 

demarquaii, 680, 737 

loa, 680, 686 (figure) 

ozzardi, 680 

perstans, 680, 687, 912 

Microfilariae of blood, demonstra- 
tion of, 681 

enumeration of, 688 

living, demonstration of, 

683 
permanent preparations 

of, 683 

periodicity of, 685 

retirement of, to larger ar- 
teries and lungs. 68?' 
Microgametes, 8, 16, 28, 926 
Micromerozoites, 941 



962 



INDEX 



Microsporon furfur, 886 
macfadyeni, 885 

mansoni, 885 

minutissimum, 886 

tropicum, 885 
Midges, differentiation of, from 

mosquitoes, 146 
Miner's anaemia (see Ankylosto- 

miasis) 

Monilia in pinta, 893 
Mosquito, anatomy of, 142 

and dengue, 295 

and filariasis, 690 

and malaria 17 

and yellow fever, 251, 269 

diagnosis of, from other 

blood-sucking insects, 145 

dissection of, 22 

geographical range of, 139 

life-history of, 139 

-malaria theory, 17 

malarial parasite in, 7, 21 

nets, 134 

sub-families of, 146 

Mozambique ulcer, 864 

Mus decumanus, 193, 328, 353 
norvegicus, 328 

rattus, 193, 328, 353 

rufescens, 193 

Musca, 212 

luteola, 905 

Mycetoma, 871 

actinomycotic, 877 

Bouffard's black, 878 

white, 880 

Brumpt's white, 879 

classic black, 879 

classification, etiology, and 

histology of, 876 

history and geographical dis- 
tribution of, 872 

morbid anatomy of, 881 

Nicolle's white, 878 

Reynier's white, 880 

- - symptoms of, 873 

treatment of, 882 

Vincent's white, 878 

Myiasis from Auchmeromyia 

luteola, 905 

from Chrysomyia macellaria, 

901 

from Cordylobia anthropo- 

phaga, 904 

from Dermatobia cyanivent- 

ris, 903 

intestinal, 859 



N.N.N. medium, composition of, 

158 
culture of leishmania 

on, 936 
of trypanosomes on, 

934 

Nagana, 154, 196 
Nastin in leprosy, 649 
Necator americanus, 822 



Nematodes, 808 
Nematoideum hominis, 805 
Neo-salvarsan in rat-bite disease, 

319 
in relapsing fever, 244 

in yaws, 668 

Neosporidia, 939, 948 
Nephritis due to malaria, 98 
Neuritis, peripheral, in malarial 

cachexia, 94 

Neutral-red-agar medium, compo- 
sition of, 530 (footnote) 
Nicolle's white mycetoma, 878 
Nocardia carougeaui, 919 
Non - malarial remittent fever, 

385 
Nuttallia equi, 246, 947 

herpestidis, 947 



Ochromyia anthropophaga, 904 
Octomitidae, 939 
Ocular sparganosis, 792 
CEsophagostomum apiostomum, 

836 
in dysentery, 504 

brumpti, 836 

columbianum, 837 
-i dentatum, 837 
Oligocythsemia in malaria, 81 
Onchocerca volvulus, 787 

description of, 778 

geographical distribu- 

tion of, 787 
history of, 787 

- life-history of, 779 

pathogenesis of, 778 

Onyalai, 923 

Oocyst, 29, 926 
Ookinete, 28, 926 
Opisthorchis noverca, 800 

sinensis, 801 

Oriental sore, 219 

age and, 221 

and kala-azar, 218 

definition of, 219 

distribution of, 219 
- etiology of, 220 

- histology of, 220 

incubation period of, 221 

occupation and, 221 
race and, 221 

sex and, 221 

social condition and, 221 

symptoms of, 223 

constitutional, 221 

treatment of, 225 

by antimony, 225 

Ornithodoros moubata, 229, 235, 
236, 237, 245, 246 

savignyi, 235. 249 

Ova of Ankylostomum duodenale, 

810 
of Ascaris lumbricoides, 810 

of Culicidse, 137 
of Davainea madagascarien- 

sis, 857 



INDEX 



963 



Ova of Dicrocaelium lanceatum, 

848 

of Fasciolopsis buski, 808, 847 

of Gastrodiscoides hominis, 

846 
of Heterophyes heterophyes, 

849 

of Hymenolepis nana, 855 

of intestinal parasites, ex- 
amination of faeces for, 808 
of CEsophagostomum apiosto- 

mum, 837 

of Oxyuris vermicularis, 808 

of Strongyloides stercoralis, 

840 

of Tzenia africana, 853 

of Trichiuris trichiura, 809 

of Trichostrongylus subtilis, 

842 

of Watsonius watsoni, 844 

of Yokagawa yokogawa, 850 

Oxyuris vermicularis, ova of, in 



Papatasii fever, 304 

Paragonimus westermani, 794 

Paragonomiasis (see Haemoptysis, 
endemic) 

Paramphistomum watsoni, 844 

Parangi, 652 

Paraplasma flavigenum, 255 

Parasites, intestinal, 808 

cestodes, 851 

examination of faeces 

for ova of, 808 

nematodes, 808 

trematodes, 844 

moribund and fragmented, 

in blood, 39 

of circulatory and lymphatic 

systems, 679 

of connective tissue, 766 

of liver, 800 

of lung, 794 

of malaria (see Malaria para- 
sites) 

Parasitic protozoa, some com- 
moner, 924 

Paropisthorchis caninus, 800 

Pellagra, 437 

age and, 439 

diagnosis of, 455 

distribution of, geographical, 

437 
topographical, 440 

epidemiology of, 441 

etiology of, 438 

maize theory of, 442 

protozoal theory of, 448 

history of, 438 

morbid anatomy of, 453 

occupation and, 439 

season and, 439 

sex and, 438 

symptoms of, 450 

treatment of, 455 



Pellarella, 437 
Pellarina, 437 
Pemphigus contagiosus, 869 
Penicillium crustaceum, 445 

glaucum, 443, 444, 445 

in pinta, 893 
Pentastomum constrictum, 805 

diesingi, 805 

euryzonum, 805 

polyzonum, 805 

protelis, 805 
Pestis ambulans, 345 
minor, 345 

siderans, 343 

(see also Plague) 

Phagedaena, tropical sloughing. 

Phagocytosis in spleen in mal- 
aria, 85 
Phlebotomus fever, 304 

distribution of, 304 

etiology of, 304 

history of, 304 

pathology of, 306 

prophylaxis of, 307 

symptoms and treatment 

of, 307 

genus, 305 

characters of, 308 

synopsis of, 309 

papatasii, 305 
Physaloptera mordens, 838 
Physopsis africana, 748 
Pian bois, 225 

Piedra, 895 

Pigment, malarial, 83 

Pigmented quotidian malaria] 

parasites, 51 
Pinta, 891 

diagnosis of, 893 

geographical distribution of, 

891 
pathology of, 893 

symptoms of, 892 

treatment of, 895 

Piroplasma, 946 

bovis, 948 

caballi, 946 

canis, 946, 948 

mutans, 946, 947 

transmission of, by ticks, 948 

Pityriasis versicolor, 884 
Plague, 320 

abortive, 345 

age and, 338 

altitude and, 338 

atmospheric temperature 

and, 339 

diagnosis of, 348 

distribution of, 320 

epidemics of, 322 

etiology of, 323 

experimental, 326 

Haffkine's inoculations 

against, 356 

in lower animals, 331 

incubation period of. 340 

larval, 345 



964 



INDEX 



Plague, Lustig's injections for, 
356 

mortality of, 345 

occupation and, 338 

pathology of, 346 

pneumonic, 335, 344 

mortality of, 346 

predisposing causes of, 336 

prophylaxis of, general, 349 

personal, 355 

quarantine in, 349 

relapses in, 345 

role of flea in, 332 

of rat in, 328 

septiceemic, 343 

sex and, 338 

symptoms and stages of, 340 

treatment of, 357 

Planorbis boissyi, 745 

olivaceus, 748 
Plasmodium, characters of, 942 

falciparum, 68, 78, 944 
quotidianum, 51 (foot- 
note) 

kochi, 944 (figure) 

life-cycle of, 944 

malariae, 58, 78, 943 

tenue, 51 (footnote) 

vivax, 61, 78, 943 

minuta, 51 (footnote) 

Plerocercoides prolifer, 792 

Plero.oercus prolifer, 792 

Pollenia, 212 

Polycholia in malaria, 87 

Polymastigina, 928, 938 

Ponos, 203 

Porocephalus armillatus, 805 

moniliformis, 805 

Potamon dehaanii, 798 

obtusipes, 798 

Prickly heat, 861 

treatment of, 862 

Principe, trypanosomiasis - pro- 
phylaxis in, 184 

Proteosoma grassii, 944 
Protomonadina, 928 
Protozoa, classification of, 926 

definition and characters of, 

925 

parasitic, some commoner, 

924 
Prowazekia, 928 

cruzi, 929 

Pseudorasbora parva, 804 
Pseudo-typhus of Deli, 390 
Psilosis (see Sprue) 
pigmentosa (see Pellagra) 
Pulex irritans and plague, 335 

(footnote) 
and transmission of tryp- 

anosomes, 931 

serraticeps, 211 

Pulicidse, 360, 934 

Pulmonary affections in malarial 

cachexia, 95 
Pia-ru, 652 
Pyosis Mansoni, 869 
1'yrosoma hominis, 310 



Quartan ague, 56, 58 
parasite of, 51, 58 

Quartana duplex, 52 
triplex, 52 

Quotidian ague, 56, 66 

parasite of, 51, 67 



Rat flea, bionomics of, 335 

role of, in plague, 332 

role of, in plague, 328 

Rat-bite disease, 319 

Rats, post-mortem indications of 
plague in, 348 (footnote) 

Ray fungus, 877 

Rectitis, epidemic gangrenous, 544 

Relapsing fever, 228 

diagnosis of, 243 

etiology of, 229 

geographical distribu- 

tion of, 228 
- history of, 229 

immunity from, 238 

incubation period of, 239 

morbid anatomy of, 243 
mortality of, 243 

parasites, 229 
demonstration of, 

230 
species of, 234, 242 

prophylaxis of, 245 

symptoms of, 240 
transmission of, 235 

treatment of, 243 

Remittent fever, non-malarial, 385 
Reynier's white mycetoma, 880 
Rhabdonema intestinale, 839 
Rhicephalus sanguineus. 942, 948 
Rhinosporidium kinealyi, 949 
Rhipicephalus appendiculatus, 246 
bursa, 246 

eyertsi, 246 

simus, 246 

Rhizopoda, 927 

Rodenwaldt's staining method, 

685 

Romanowsky's staining method, 44 
Rosette body, 28 
Ross's black spores, 103 
researches in mosquito- 
malaria theory, 18 

thick-film staining method, 

46 



Sabethini, 147 
Sahib's disease, 203 
Salvarsan in kala-azar, 217 

in leprosy, 647 

in oriental sore. 225 

in pellagra, 455 

in rat-bite disease, 319 

in relapsing fever, 243 

in trypanosomiasis of man, 

179 (footnote! 



INDEX 



965 



Salvarsan in verruga Peruana, 671 

in yaws, 668 

methods of administering, 

243 

Sand-flea, 896 
Sand-flies, differentiation of, from 

mosquitoes, 146 
Sand-fly and phlebotomus fever, 

305', 307 
Sarcocystis muris, 949 

tenella, 949 

Sarcodina, 926, 927 
Sarcophaga, 212 
Sarcopsyllidje, 359, 360 
Scarlatina rheumatica, 293 (foot- 
note) 

Schaudinn's staining method, 529 
Schistosomum cattoi, 759 

disease, 742 

hsematobium, 176, 742 

characters of, 743 

in dysentery, 504 

in sleeping sickness, 176 

larva of, free, 744 

life-history of, 745 

ova of, 743 

japonicum, 759 

diagnosis of, 765 

geographical distribu- 

tion of, 761 
- history of, 759 

in dysentery, 504 

morbid anatomy of, 762 

ova of, in faeces, 808 

prevention of, 765 

symptoms of, 764 
treatment of, 675 

mansoni, 756 

in dysentery, 504 
ova of, in fseces, 808 

Schizogony, 28 
Sehizogregarines, 939 
Schizonts, 28, 925 
Schizotrypanum, 933 

cruzi, 156, 188 
Schiiffner's dots, 47, 62 
Screwworm infection, 901 
Scrotal elephantiasis, 725 
Serum-therapy in dysentery, 538 

in plague, 358 

in relapsing fever, 244 

Seven-days' fever of Indian ports, 

389 

Bhiga's antiserum, 507 
Shima mushi, 315 
Ship malaria, 101 
Siderosis of liver in malarial 

cachexia, 97 

Simple continued fever, 385 
Simuliidse, 449 

and pellagra, 448 
Siriasis, 394 

- diagnosis of, 400 
etiology of, 396 

geographical distribution of, 

395 

morbid anatomy of, 399 

mortality of. 399 



Siriasis, pathology of, 400 

symptoms of, 397 

treatment of, 400 

Sirkari disease, 203 

Skin diseases, bacterial, 863 

fungous, 871 

non-specific, 861 

of animal origin, 896 

Sleeping sickness, morbid ana- 
tomy of, 176 

mortality of, 175 

success of prophylaxis 
in Principe, 184 

(see also Trypanosomi- 

asis) 
Sodium gynocardate in leprosy, 

647 

Soloid stains, 45 
Sparganosis, ocular, 792 
Sparganum mansoni, 790 

proliferum, 792 

Spermophilus guttatus, 331 
Spirillum fever, 228 
Spirochaeta berbera, 235, 242 

carteri, 235, 242 

duttoni, 235, 236, 242, 950 

gallinarum, 235, 246, 247, 950 

novyi, 235, 242 

obermeieri (see Spiroclueta 

recurrentis) 

pallidula, 654 

pertenuis, 654, 950 

plicatilis, 232, 950 

recurrentis and relapsing 

fever, 229 

animal experiments 

with, 238, 242 

biology of, 232 

characters of, 230,242,950 

refringens, 232 

schaudinni, 864 

Spirochsetes, 950 

granule shedding by, 231 

of relapsing fever, clinical 

symptoms evoked 
by, 242 

cultivation of. 234 

nature of, 232 

species of, 234, 242 

Spleen in malaria, 83 

phagocytosis in, 85 

in malarial cachexia, 91, 95 

Splenic enlargement in kala-azar, 

215 
in trypanosomiasis, 172 

index in malarial cachexia, 

96 

rupture in malarial cachexia, 

96 

vein, blood of, in malaria, 85 
Sporisorium maydis, 444 
Sporoblasts,, 926 

Sporogony, 29, 925 
Sporonts, 925 
Sporozoa, 927, 939 
Sporozoites, 28, 29, 926 
Spotted fever of the Kocky Moun- 
tains, 310 



\ 



966 



INDEX 



Spotted fever of the Rocky Moun- 
tains, distri- 
bution of, 310 

etiology of, 313 

history of, 310 

pathology of, 

313 

prophylaxis of, 

313 

symptoms of, 

311 
treatment of, 

313 

Sprue, 549 
course of, 553 

diagnosis of 559 

diarrhoea in, 553 

dyspepsia in, 553 

- etiology of, 550 

geographical distribution of, 

history of, 553 

incomplete, 555 

intestinal atrophy consequent 

on, 556 
morbid anatomy of, 556 

pathology of, 558 

prognosis of, 560 
protopathic, 554 

secondary to acute entero- 

colitis, 555 
to dysentery, 555 

symptoms of, 551 

treatment of, 560 

by drugs, 566 

by fruit, 563 

by meat juice and under- 
done meat, 563 

by milk, 560 

by nutrient enemata or 

suppositories 564 

by Salisbury diet, 564 

climatic, 565 

general, 565 

threatened relapses in, 

561 

types of, 553 

Staining flagellated body, 46 

malarial blood, 41 

Stains for malarial blood, 43 
Staphylococcus pyogenes, 867 
Stegomyia, 259, 274 

africana, 274 

argenta punctata, 274 

calopus, 250, 944 

and dengue, 295 

and yellow fever, 256 

fasciata (see Stegomyia calo- 
pus) 

pseudoscutellaris and filari- 

asis, 690 

scutellaris, 274 

Sternberg's mixture in black- 
water fever, 290 

in yellow fever, 268 

Stinging-fly and Loa loa, 784 
Stomoxys calcitrans, 198, 784 

nebulosa, 198 



Stomoxys nigra, 195, 932 

' Streptobacillus pellagras," 445 

(footnote) 

Streptococcus pyogenes, 867 
Streptothrix leproides, 649 
Strong's vaccine for plague, 357 
Strongyloides intestinalis, 550 

stercoralis, 839 

larval form of, 841 

ova of, 840 

Strongylus duodenalis, 816 

siamense, 843 

Subintrant malarial fever, 56 
Subtertian malaria parasite, 51. 

68 

malarial fever, 68 
Sun-stroke (see Siriasis) 
Sun-traumatism, 402 

morbid anatomy of, 403 

pathogenesis of, 403 

treatment of, 404 

Surra, 154, 195, 932 

Syncopal form of algide malarial 

fever, 77 

Syngamus kingi, 839 
Synkaryon, 940 



Tabanidee, 195, 202 
Tabanus, 195, 212 
Teenia africana, 852 

asiatica, 859 

demerariensis, 857 

echinococcus, 852 

hominis, 853 

madagascariensis, 857 

nana, 854 

philippina, 853 

saginata, 851 

solium, 851 

Tjeniorhynchus richiardii, 153 
Tartar emetic (see Antimony) 
Tertian ague, 56, 61 

parasite of, 51, 61 

Tertiana duplex, 52 
Tetragenus febris flava, 254 
Tetramitidse, 938 
Tetramitus mesnili, 938 
Tetra vaccine in cholera, 484 
Theileria, 246 

parva, 947 

Theobaldinella annulata, 153 

nemqrosa, 153 

Three-days' fever of Chitral, 304 
Tick fever (see Eelapsing fever) 

paralysis, 314 

Ticks, 245, 248, 948 
Tinea imbricata, 887 

diagnosis of, 890 

fungus of, 889 

geographical distribu- 
tion of, 887 

prophylaxis of, 891 

symptoms of, 888 

treatment of, 890 

" Tiqui-tiqui " in beriberi, 430 
Tocotrema yokagawa, 849 



INDEX 



967 



Toxoplasma, 945 
Trematodes, 844 
Treponema pertenue, 654 
Trichiuris trichiura, 811 

ova of, 808, 809 

Trichocephalus dispar, 811 

hominis, 811 

Trichomonas intestinalis, 525, 938 
Trichostrongylus instabilis, 842 

subtilis, 842 

Triodontophorus deminutus, 837 

Trophozoite, 925 

Tropical diarrhoea, 549 

fevers, imperfectly different! 

ated, 384 
classification 

of, 384 
diagnosis of, 

390 
treatment of, 

391 

liver, 568 

causes of, 568 

treatment of, 570 

sloughing phagedaena, 863 

etiology of, 865 

geographical distri- 
bution of, 864 

symptoms of, 865 

treatment of, 866 

sore, 219 

splenomegaly (see Kala-azar) 
Trypanoplasma, 934 

- helicis, 934 
Trypanosoma brucei, 154, 162, 164, 

166, 187, 192, 193, 195, 197, 
930, 932 

cruzi, 188, 190, 933 

cuniculi, 930 

damoniae, 930 

dimorphon, 931, 932, 933 
- duttoni, 930 

- equinum, 197, 930, 931 

equiperdum, 197, 931 

evansi, 192, 193, 195, 930, 932 

- gambiense, 155, 157, 158, 159, 

162, 163, 167, 930, 932, 933 

genus, 929, 936 

granulosum, 930 

grayi, 932 

hippicum, 931 
ingens, 931 

lewisi, 154, 159, 180, 192, 195, 

929, 930, 931, 932 

microti, 930 

nanum, 162, 931 

pecaudi, 195 

rajae, 930 

. rhodesiense, 155, 159, 185, 186, 

187, 192, 196. 929, 930, 932 

rotatorium, 930 

rougeti, 197 

theileri, 198, 931 

vivax, 931, 933 
Trypanosomes, 929 

agglomeration of, 159 

Bruce's classification of path- 
ogenic African, 194 



Trypanosomes, cycle of, in inver- 
tebrate host, 932 

drug resistance of, 182 

granule shedding of, 161 

habitat of, 158 

methods of transmission of, 
933 

of mammals, 192 

transmission of, by tse-tse 

flies, 932 
Trypanosomiasis, diagnosis of, 

176 

duration of. 173 

effect of, on abortion-rate 

and infant-mortality-rate, 

172 

etiology of, 157 

geographical distribution of, 

history of, 154 

immunization in, 182 

incubation period of, 169 

morbid anatomy of, 176 

mortality of, 175 

predisposing causes of, 168 

prophylaxis of, 182, 192 

Rhodesian, treatment of, 181 

role of tse-tse fly in, 162 

skin affections in, 170 

symptoms of, 169, 188 

treatment of, 178, 192 
by antimonii oxidi In- 
jections, 181 

by antimony, 180 
by arsenic, 178 

by atoxyl, 179 

by salvarsan, 179 (foot- 
note) 

Tse-tse flies (see Glossina) 

Tuberculin in leprosy, 647 

Typhoid fever, 376 

diagnosed from malaria, 

116, 382 

inoculation against, 378 
prognosis and manage- 
ment of, 383 

remittent malarial fever, 72 
Typho-nialarial fever, 117, 380 



U 

Ulcerating dermatitis, 911 
- granuloma of pudenda, 673 

diagnosis of, 677 

etiology of, 673 

geographical distri- 
bution of, 673 

histology of, 677 

parasitic elements 

in, 673 

spirochsetes in, 673 

symptoms of, 674 

treatment of, 678 

Uncinaria americana, 822 

duodenal! s, 816 

Undulant fever, 362 

age and, 365 

complications of, 370 



968 



INDEX 



Undulant fever, diagnosis of, 371 

etiology of, 364 

geographical distribu- 
tion of, 362 

history of, 363 

immunity from, 367 

incidence of, in Army 

and Navy, 363 

incubation period of, 367 

mode of infection in, 366 
mortality of, 370 

pathology of, 370 

prevention of, 375 

prognosis of, 372 

season and, 365 

sequelae of, 370 
symptoms of> 368 

treatment of, 372 

Unpigmented quotidian malarial 

parasite, 51 
Ustilago maydis, 444 
Uta, 225 



Vaccine treatment of oriental 
sore, 225 

of undulant fever, 373 
Vacuoles in blood, diagnosis of, 

39 
Varices, lymphatic, cutaneous 

and deeper, 715 
Varicose groin glands, 712 

diagnosis of, 713 

pathological ana- 

tomy of, 714 

symptoms of, 712 

: ; treatment of, 714 

Vena medinensis, 766 
Ver du Cayor, 904 
macaque, 903 
Verruga Peruana, 669 

etiology of, 669 

geographical distribu- 

tion of, 669 

mortality of, 671 

pathology of, 670 
symptoms of, 670 

treatment of, 671 

Vincent's white mycetoma, 878 
Vitamine and beriberi, 424 
Vomiting sickness of Jamaica, 
909 

etiology of, 910 

symptoms of, 909 

treatment of, 910 

W 

Warburg's tincture, 126 
Wasieliewski's staining method, 

529 

Watsonius watsoni, 844 
Whip-worm, 811 



Xenopsylla cheopis, 332, 334, 931 
X-ray treatment of blastomy- 

cosis, 884 

of oriental sore, 22,5 

of ulcerating granu- 

loma of pudenda, 678 



Yaws, 652 

and primary-sore question, 

661 

diagnosis of 666 

duration and recurrences of, 

660 

etiology of, 653 

gangosa and, 662 

geographical distribution of, 
652 

incubation period of, 655 

morbid anatomy and path- 

ology of, 665 

mortality of, 665 

persistent, 661 

prophylaxis of, 667 

sequelae of, 662 

spirochaete of, 654 

cultivation of, 655 

symptoms of, 655 

treatment of, 667 

by salvarsan, 668 
Yellow fever, 250 

and mosquito, 256 

diagnosis of, 266 

of malaria from, 115 

epidemiology of, 251 

geographical distribu- 

tion of, 250 

germ of, 254 

immunity from, 271 

incubation period of, 

253 

mortality of, 263 

pathological anatomy of, 

264 
possible introduction of, 

into Asia, 272 

prognosis of, 263 

prophylaxis of, 268 

race and, 250 

s.ymptoms of, 259 

treatment of, 266 
virus, portability of, in 

fomites, 271 
Yemen ulcer, 864 
Yersin's experiment, 332 
Yokagawa yokagawa, 849 



Zygotes, 28, 926 
Zygotoblasts, 29 



PRINTED BY CASSELL & COMPANY, LIMITED, LA BELLE SAUVAGE, LONDOM, E.C.4 

20.219 



to 



vJ 

Ql 



as 

H CO 

JH 06 
-P Q> 

OS eo 



'^ 
H 
W 



University of Toronto 
Library 



DO NOT 

REMOVE 

THE 

CARD 

FROM 

THIS 

POCKET 



Acme Library Card Pocket 

Under Pat. "Ref. Index FUe" 
Made by LIBRARY BUREAU 



mm, 

^y^LK'fc'V* 

: VS 









&5S&SS5 



