TX 813 
.03 M6 
Copy * 



_ TE 

Cook 
Book 



COACHELLA VALLEY 

RIVERSIDE COUNTY, CALIFORNIA 




DATE 
COOK BOOK 



Compiled by 
MAY SOWLES METZLER 



"Wo may live without poetry, music, and art; 

AW may live without conscience, ami live without 

heart ; 
We may live without friends; we may live without 

books; 
But civilized man cannot live without cooks." 

— Owen Merridith. 



-0^ 
-J 3 






FEB 24 I9MT 

©CLA512685 

^A^ I 



PREFACE 



It has been quite fitting that a date cook 
book should originate in Coachella Valley, the 
American home of the date. 

I feel that the time is not far distant 
when dates will be used universally both in 
the fresh state and in various modes of cook- 
ery. 

In its use sugar is conserved, as will be 
seen in the following number of recipes which 
need no sugar, and by others which require 
a smaller amount than has before been used. 

Although the compilation contains many 
of the so called ''fancy dishes," a still larger 
number of simple and wholesome rules may 
be found in its pages. 

Dates are a product which perhaps lend 
themselves to a greater variety of uses than 
any other one article of food, and, conse- 
quently, I trust a book devoted exclusively 
to their service will find favor with all those 
who desire a more extended acquaintance 
with this most delicious fruit. M. s. M. 



Copyright, 1919 
May Sowies Metzler 



FOOD VALUE OF THE DATE 



In the arid regions of the old world dates 
always have been an essential in the dietry, and 
.,«■ parts have been used even to a greater 
extenl than bread and potatoes here. 

Owing to its compact form and almost total 
availability as food the date is a natural tabloid 
form of nourishment, and some kinds even out- 
strip the much vaunted pre-digested foods 
a latter dates contain sugar in a form im- 
mediately available by the body through simple 
absorption withoul being subjected to the diges- 
tion that ordinary sugar undergoes. 

Dates are at one- an enjoyable confection and 
a substantial energy producer. They really 
contain all the elements that a balanced diet 
calls for, protein, fats, salts and carbohydrates 
ami all in available form i^i tin- human system 

One pound of dates has a calorie value of 
1,275, a calorie being the physiological heat unit 
or unit of potential. 

CHARLES BENNETT, M. 0. 



SOME OF THE WAYS DATES ARE USED 
BY THE ARABS 



Split date, remove seed and then fill cavity with un- 
salted butter. This manner of eating the date has 
been popular throughout the Arabic world for cen- 
turies. 

Another popular combination, and used by the mis- 
sionaries as well as the Arabs, is called khabis, and is 
a mixture of dates, butter and honey. 

Sour or curdled milk in various forms is a constant 
accompaniment of dates. It may be from this that we 
get our idea of the use of cottage cheese with dates. 

Fresh milk, especially that of camels, is considered 
a particularly fitting drink after a meal of dates. 

In the Sindh desert of India, onions are considered 
the propei' accompaniment. 

In districts where locusts or grasshoppers are ob- 
tainable, those insects are roasted and pounded to a 
paste, together with fresh dates. 

Madquqeh, a date paste, made by pounding dates 
with sesame oil, is used on their tasteless bread. 

Dates are also used coyked, the best being a plain 
fry in plenty of butter; the date for this purpose should 



be soft, and great care is needed to keep them from 
burning; but if properly prepared, they rarely fail to 
please the American palate. 

Fresh dates are baked in the oven, sometimes basted 
w ilh butter. 

Another standard Aral) recipe is to chop up the dates, 
and boil them in milk often with the addition of 
chopped onions and a flour thickening. 

There are also many nays in which dates are used 
as beverages, and in the making of jams and preserves. 

In the Sahara dates are added to meats, soups and 
stews. Are used to make syrup which sells for ten 
cents a quart. 

Seeds are used in cookery after being softened with 
milk, and are also made into bread. 

PAUL B. POPEXOE. 




ei BREAD a 



Biscuits, Muffins, Rolls, Gems, Etc. 



" Would you know how first he met her? 
She was cutting bread and butter." 

— Goethe. 



Bran Bread 

1 cup white flour % cup shortening, melted 

1 cup wholewheat flour 1 egg beaten light 

1% cups bran iy 2 cups milk 

y 2 cup molasses mix with \' 2 6 teaspoonfuls baking powder 
teaspoon soda 1 large cup dates, with seeds 

1 teaspoonful salt removed 

Mix all together, put in small bread pan and bake 
about 114 hours. 

MRS. B. A. TEAGLE, 

Coach ella, Cal. 

Corn Bread 

1 cup com meal ^ teaspoon salt 

1 cup white flour Scant cup milk 
4 teaspoons baking powder 2 eggs 

2 tablespoons sugar 14 cup melted butter or any 
Vz cup chopped dates kind of shortening 

Mix and sift dry ingredients. Add milk slowly, egg 
well beaten, and butter. Lastly add dates, and bake 
in a greased shallow pan in a quick oven. 

Date Bread 

2 cups chopped dates 1 egg 

4 cups flour y 2 cup sugar 

One cup means V-i pint. Cup, tablespoon and teaspoon all 
mean level measurements. 



10 DATE COOK BOOK 



2 cups milk 4 teaspoons baking powder 

1 teaspoon salt 

Sift dry ingredients, add egg well beaten, dates and 
milk. Mix well together, le1 stand twenty-five or thirty 
minutes and hake in a moderate oven for forty-live 
minutes. 

Mils. PEARL IIAWKIXs, 

Taft, Cal. 

Date Bread (with yeast) 

1 cup warm left-over cereal 2 tablespoons shortening 

;; tablespoons brown sugar ' ( cake yeast or a small 

A little salt amount liquid yeast 

Flour ' i <-i)p warm water 

Mix cereal, sugar, salt and shortening, add yeasl cake 
dissolved in the warm water, and flour to knead. Let 
lis.' over night. In tin- morning when kneading, work 
in i 9 0U P English walnut meats and \ A cup of dates both 
cut in small pieces. Shane in a loaf, let rise, and hake 
in a moderate oven. This bread is very good for sand- 
wiches. 

Steamed Brown Bread 

2 cups yellow corn meal 1 cup very dark molas 
1 cup rye or Graham flour !'•_. pints warm water 
1 teaspoonful salt 1 cup r.-iisius 

1 teaspoonful soda 1 cup dates, chopped 

Put in a greased mould, and steam two or three 
hones, either on stove or in tireless cooker. 

MBS. A. (). HAY WARD. 
Thermal, Cal. 

Steamed Date Bread 

Into a bowl put l 1 - cups com- 2 cups dates which have been 
meal tned and rubbed through 

1 cup rye meal a sieve 

y 2 cup flour 1 teaspoon salt 

1 teaspoonful baking powder 1 teaspoon soda 

1 cup each milk and water -.-. cup syrup 



DATE COOK BOOK 11 



Pour into a large well greased mould, cover and 
steam 5 hours. May be cooked in a tireless cooker, or 
if steamed in smaller moulds, will not require as long a 
steaming. 

MRS. A. A. ALLEN, 

Coaehella, Cal. 

Steamed Date Bread No. 2 

1 cup rye meal 2 cups thick sour milk 

1 cup corn meal % cup molasses 

1 cup barley flour 1 cup dates 

2 teaspoons soda 2 tablespoons melted Crisco 
1 tablespoon salt 

Sift together the meal, flour, soda and salt; add sour 
milk, molasses and Crisco, and mix thoroughly. Grease 
three 1-lb. baking powder cans; put in some dates cut 
in pieces, then dough ; add more pieces of dates, then 
dough, and alternate with dates and dough till all are 
used. Set to steam with cold water, that the mixture 
may rise before cooking Steam three hours The 
water must not stop boiling for at least two hours 

JANET McKENZIE HILL. 

Sweet Date Bread 

1 teaspoonful of soda dis- 
solved in a little of the 
milk 
1 cup white flour 
3 1 /-! cups Graham flour 
1 pound of dates, cut in 
thirds 

Spices to taste. Bake in a loaf. 

MRS. C. R. KETTLE, 

Coaehella, Cal. 

White Date Loaf 

3 cups flour 1 teaspoonful salt 

3 cups chopped dates 3 tablespoons baking powder 

1 cup chopped nuts 1 tablespoon shortening 

2 cups milk 



k 


cup 


shortening 






V-2 


cup 


sugar 






% 


cup 


molasses 






i i 


3iip sour milk or 


butt 


ermilk 


2 < 


?ggs 









12 DATE COOK BOOK 



Mix well, put in a bread pan and bake 1 hour, 

MRS. A. O. BAYWARD, 
Thermal, Cal. 

Biscuits 
Put 2 cups [lour in a pan. and work into it ( , cup 
shortening, 1 teaspoonful salt, 5 teaspoonfuls baking 
powder, and j •_. cup cut dates. Wei with 1 cup rich 
sweet milk, and if more flour is needed, add until just 
stiff enough to handle. Roll to the usual thickness, and 
bake in a quick oven. 

Buns 
1 eup scalded milk '._. teaspoon suit 

':•. eup butter J£ cup dates stoned and cut 

':• cup sugar in pieces 

1 yeasl cake dissolved in ', 1 teaspoon lemon extract 

cup hike warm water Flour 

Add \fe cup sugar and s;ili to milk; when lukewarm 

add dissolved yeast cake and 1 ' •_- cups flour; cover, and 
let rise until lighl ; add butter, remaining sugar, dates 
Lemon and flour to make a dough; let rise, shape like 
Uisetiits, let pise again and hake. If wanted glazed, 
brush over with beaten egg before baking. 

MBS. I\ M. FARMER. 

Date Bran Muffins 

2 cues bran :'. tablespoons molasses 

1 cup flour 1 ' , to 1 w cups S..UI milk 

1 teaspoon soda I cup chopped dates 

1 { cup butter 

Mix dry ingredients, rub in the butter with the tips 
of fingers, add molasses and sour milk and tin' chopped 
dates tirst lolled in flour. Put into hoi muffin tins, and 
hake in hot oven. 1 unbeaten egg stirred in thoroughly 
at the last improves it greatly. Sweet milk' may be 
used, with :i teaspoons baking powder, instead of sour 
milk. MRS. E. E. COOK, 

[ndio, Cal. 



DATE COOK BOOK 13 

Date Muffins 

% cup of milk 
2 cups flour 

1 egg, well beaten 4 teaspoons baking powder 
li> cup dates cut into bits 

Add dates last, and beat well. Put in well greased 
muffin pans, and bake twenty-five minutes. 

MBS. J. G. NUSBAUM, 

Coachella, Cal. 

Date Muffins No. 2 

2 tablespoons shortening- 3 teaspoons baking powder 
2 tablespoons sugar 1 teaspoon salt 

1 cup milk y 2 pound dates 

1% cups flour 

Melt shortening and add sugar. Beat until well 
mixed. Add milk and Hour, baking powder and salt 
which have been sifted together. Add dates which 
have been pitted and cut fine. Bake in greased tins in 
hot oven about twenty-five minutes. 

MRS. T. M. MILLER, 

Fruit Corn Muffins 
l'L' cups yellow eommeal 1 tablespoon shortening 

x /2 cup white flour 2 eggs (1 may be used when 

1 teaspoon salt scarce) 

2 teaspoons baking powder 2 cups sour milk 

1 cup semi-dry dates, cut fine 

Pans must be well heated, and greased with 1 table- 
spoon shortening. Bake in muffin pans in a hot oven 
for twentv minutes. 

MRS. C. W. HYDE, 
Coachella, Cal. 

Economy Griddle Cakes 

1 1 2 cups sour milk or buttermilk; thin with y 2 cup 

sweet milk, and stir in y 2 teaspoon soda, 1 teaspoon 

salt, 1 egg well beaten, 1 cup fine bread crumbs, which 

have been put through the sifter, y 2 cup cornmeal and 



14 DATE COOK ROOK 



enough Hour to make the right thickness for cooking on 
a griddle in the usual way. Lastly add a few ground 
dates. M. S. METZLER. 

Waffles 

l 1 - cups thick sour milk About 2 cups flour (just white 

V 2 cup sweet milk Hour may be used or it may 

3 tablespoons shortening, or be mixed with any other 

thick sour cream kind, such as Graham) 

% teaspoons soda 2 eggs beaten separately 

1 teaspoon salt 1 teaspoon baking powder 

'•j cup ground dates 

Sift flour, salt and baking powder in a bowl, add milk 
in which soda has been dissolved, yolk of egg, shorten- 
ing, dates and egg whites. Cook in hot. well greased 
waffle irons. S< rve with butter and syrup. 

MRS. V. E. METZLER, 

Coachclla, Cal. 

Southern Waffles 

l 1 .. cups corn meal mush % teaspoon salt 

1 I _• cups milk 2 eggs 

1 , cup ground dates 3 tablespoons shortening 

3 teasp is baking powder 3 cups flour 

Add milk to mush, then dry ingredients, mixed, yolks 
of eggs, shortening and whites of eggs beaten still*. Cook 
in waffle irons. 

Schnecken 
1 pound of bread dough, add 2 eggs, y 4 cup butter 
Mix well and add flour to stiffen. Roll thin, and spread 
with melted butter, cinnamon, currants, chopped dates, 
sugar and a little citron. Roll, cut and place in a bak- 
ing pan. Let rise till very light, then put a small piece 
of butter on each, and sprinkle with a little powdered 
sugar. Just before putting in the oven, pour a very 
little boiling water about the cakes. Bake in a mod- 
erate oven in a well greased pan. 

MRS. J. A. LEHRITTER, 
Gunnison, Colo. 



h PUDDINGS a 



"One thing is always sure to please, 
Just give him puddings such as these.' ' 



Apple Pudding 

Wash and soak y 2 pound dried apples (fresh ones 
may be used). Stone Vi pound of dates and cut each 
one in thirds. Put fruit in saucepan with 1 tablespoon 
of butter, half a cup of brown sugar and 1 teaspoon 
ground cinnamon. Stew slowly till tender. Turn out 
to cool. Sift y 2 pound of flour into a basin, cut into it 
4 tablespoons butter, add 2 tablespoons sugar, 1 tea- 
spoonful baking powder and l 1 /. teaspoonfuls ground 
cinnamon. Make into a stiff paste with the beaten 
yolk of 1 egg and a little milk. Divide into one large 
and one small piece. Roll out and line a pudding dish 
with large piece of dough, put in fruit and cover with 
small piece of dough. Bake in a moderate oven for 
three-quarters of an hour. Cool and cover with 
meringue. MRS. M. MeLEISH, 

Riverside, Cal. 

Bird's Nest Pudding' (no sugar) 

Put 1 cup seeded dates in the bottom of a baking dish 
2 eggs beaten separately 
K cup milk 

1 cup Hour with which sift 2 teaspoons baking powder 
1 tablespoon melted butter 
'•_. teaspoon salt 
1 e u j > flour 
Pour batter over dates and halve. Serve with cream 

MISS ALBERTA METZLEE. 

One cup means r -L> pint. Cup, tablespoon and teaspoon all 
mean level measurements. 



16 DATE CO OK BOOK 

Boiled Rice and Date Pudding 

1 cup rice 2 cups sugar 

l' quarts hot water l* cups water 

1 tablespoon salt 1 cup cut dates 

Wash rice and add slowly to 2 quarts boiling water 
to which has been added 1 tablespoon salt. Boil about 
thirty minutes, or until soft. Drain in a coarse strainer 
pour through it some hot water, and let stand in a warm 
place to dry off. Mix stoned and cut dates with rice 
and mould. Serve with a syrup made from the 12 cups 
sugar and 2 cups water. This amount will make a 
large pudding. MRS. p. w. zableb, 

Coachclla, Cal. 

Bread Pudding (no sugar) 
l ( heaping cups stale or fresh 1 egg, beaten 

bread, cut in dice 1 teaspoon vanilla 

1 heaping cup dates (% lb.) 2 teaspoons baking powder 

I 1 - cups thin cream (% pint) V6 Cup blanched almonds, cut 

or not as you please 

Mix well, and cook in a double boiler forty minutes. 

MRS. B. A. TEAGLE, 
Coachella, Cal. 

New Brown Betty (with dates) 
Grease a pudding dish, and put in it alternate layers 
of bread crumbs and tart apples and dates mixed. Make 
enough layers to nearly fill dish, having bread crumbs 
for first and last layers. Pour hot water on to moisten, 
rW with bits of butter and bake. Serve with cream and 
sugar or a good pudding sauce. 

Boiled Carrot Pudding 

1 pound of grated carrots % pound of either raisins or 

■\ pound chopped suet currants 

i; pound dates 8 tablespoons flour 

4 tablespoons sugar Spices to suit taste 

Put in a greased pudding bag, tie, allowing room to 



DATE COOK BOOK 17 



swell, and boil 4 hours; then put in oven for a 
minutes to dry. Serve with "Hard Sauce," or any ; 



few 

good 
pudding .sauce. 

Carrot Pudding 

1 cup grated raw potato 1 cup chopped dates 

1 cup grated raw carrot l'-j cups flour 

I cup chopped suet % eup sugar 

I cup raisins 

1 teaspoon each of soda, salt and allspice; soda dissolved in 2 
tablespoons milk. 

Steam 3V> hours and serve with "Brown Sauce." 

MRS. L. H. KILLEY, 

Coachella, Cal. 

Chocolate Pudding 

1 cup bread crumbs boiled in 4 tablespoons melted chocolate 

1 quart milk % cup cut dates 

% cup sugar *4 cup nuts 

Yolks of 2 eggs 

Bake till set, then use well beaten whites with a little 
sugar for frosting. Brown in oven. 

Date and Nut Pudding 

1 cup chopped dates 4 tablespoons cracker crumbs 

I cup nut meats 3 tablespoons sweet milk 

1 cup sugar 1 teaspoon baking powder 

2 eggs 

Steam 1% hours, either in one dish or individual 
moulds, and serve with whipped cream or ice cream 

MRS. E. PALMER, 
Mecca, Cal. 

Date Pudding No. 1 

V2 pound of dates % teaspoon soda 

: J > tablespoons butter % teaspoon salt 

\{> cup of molasses \-± teaspoon cloves 

x h cup sweet milk % teaspoon nutmeg 

1 % cups flour % teaspoon allspice 

Stone dates, and cut in small pieces. Melt butter 



18 DATE COOK BOOK 

add molasses and milk. Mix dry ingredients together 

and sii'i. Add to liquid. Lastly stir in dates. Turn in 
a buttered mould, and steam 1 ' •> hours. Serve with any 
good pudding sauce MRS, G. J. SHOENHAIR, 

Hollywood, Cal. 

Date Pudding No. 2 
Mix 2 cup- bread erumbs, 1 cup Hour and Vfe cups 
chopped suet, 2 cups dates, cut in pieces, ' L . cup sugar 
y 2 teaspoon salt, 1 teaspoons baking powder. Mix well 
and add 2 ■ ggs beat< n in ' \ cup milk. Put into a wel] 
greased mould and strain three or more hours. More 
steaming mala • it darker ;\\\<\ better. Serve hoi with 
cream or sweel saner. Makes a good Christmas pud- 
ding, or to serve at any time in place of plum pudding 

MRS. \ . E. METZLER, 
Coachella, Cal. 

Dale Pudding- No. 3 

I cup mola -l teaspoons baking powder 

I cup milk ' ._. all 

':: Clip In I _. t iaS] ii el 

3 cups flour (use pari barley y* teaspoon allspice 

(l<"ii i._. teaspoon uutuieg 

:: i pound dates, cut La pie< 

Mell butter and add to molasses and milk. Sif1 to- 
gether the flour, baking p<>\\ der, sail and spices and add 
to milk and molasses. \\\>\ dates. I'm m a buttered 
mould, and strain "J 1 o hours. Serve with pudding sauce 

MRS. T. M. MILLER, 

Date and Rice Dumplings (no sugar) 
L T se small squares of cheesecloth. Place one at a 
time on a plate, and cover center with aboul :: i cup of 
previously boiled rice. On this put 1 tablespoon of cu1 
up dates. Bring rice up around the dates, shape round 
in the cheesecloth, tie close to the rice and plunge in 



DAT E COOK BOOK 19 

boiling water for twenty minutes. Remove cloth, and 
serve with a little jelly on top and cream around it. A 
very nutritious dish. 

Date Sonne 
1 cup stoned dates ground fine, Y /2 cup powdered sugar 
yolks of W eggs, beaten till light. Beat all together 
until very light, then fold in carefully the well beaten 
whites <>i' 3 eggs. Turn into a baking dish, buttered 
and dusted with powdered sugar, and bake in a hot 
oven until well puffed and broAvn. Serve immediately 

Fruit Suet Pudding 
3 cups flour, level teaspoon salt, 2 teaspoons baking 
powder, 1 teacup finely chopped suet. Mix well to- 
gether and add water to make dough like pie crust 
Roll %-mch thick. Spread with chopped cooking 
apples and elates. Roll, and steam 3 hours. Serve with 
a sweet pudding sauce or cream and. sugar. 

MRS. J. H. BLOCK, 

Denver, Colo. 

Hard Time Date Pudding 
Soak about 2 cups stale bread in hot water for half 
an hour, then squeeze the water from it through a 
strainer. .Mix with it y 2 pound stoned and cup dates 
Grease a pie pan and put the above mixture in it, shap- 
ing nicely to the pan. Xow take 1 egg, beat well, add 
l /o cup milk and 1 tablespoon sugar. Pour over the 
bread and dates, and add a little grated nutmeg on top 
('an be used hot or cold, with any preferred sauce. 

MRS. H. T. FOTHERGILL, 
Coachella, Cal. 

Oatmeal Betty 

_ cups cooked oatmeal Vj teaspoon cinnamon 

4 cups apples nit small '- cup syrup 



DATE COOK BOOK 



'j cup dates 
Mix and bake for one-half hour. Serve with cream 

Oatmeal Date Pudding (war-time recipe) 
2 ' L . cups boiling water 1 cup rolled oats 

1 tablespoon crisco *fa cup maple syrup 

1 •!• teaspoon salt i egg beaten light 

1 cup dates <'ut in small pir,-,-.s 

Have water boiling rapidly. Stir in crisco, sail and 
oats, .-iiid continue to stir while cooking rapidly 5 min- 
utes. Cook in double boiler 1 hour; add syrup, dates 
••'iid beaten eggs, and bake m ;i baking dish aboul 
thirty minutes. JANET McKENZlE HILL. 

Quick Graham Pudding' (no sugar) 
Boil 1 quarl of water, add 1 teaspoonful sail and drop 
in slowly, stirring constantly enough Graham Hour to 
make a moderately thick mush. Continue cooking and 
stirring occasionally for aboul half an hour. A few 
minutes before removing Prom the fire, add 1 cup stoned 
and cut-up dates. Serve hoi with cream. 

Rice Pudding a la Hoover 
Wash 1 cup rice, drain and add to 2 cups hoi water, 
1 i teaspoon salt. Steam 45 minutes. Add ! \ cup 
brown sugar, l / 2 package dates, cut, and 1 cup scalded 
milk, and steam 15 minutes longer, 

"DELINEATOR." 

Rice Pudding (without sugar or eggs) 
ti tablespoons of rice 1 teaspoon s.-ih 

•J quarts milk and 2 table- 1 cup dates, stoned and eul in 
spoons thick sweet cream small pieces 

Bake wry slowly for three hours. Serve with cream 
Makes a Large pudding. 

MRS. J. W. ROCKEFELLER, 

Gunnison, Colo. 



DATE COOK BOOK 21 



Roly-Poly Apple and Date Pudding 

Pare, core and slice cooking apples, and stone and 
halve a few dates. Make a rich biscuit dough. Roll out 
not quite half an inch thick, lay the fruit on the paste, 
bring- edges together, wrap in a pudding cloth, which 
has been well floured, tie up and plunge into boiling 
water, and boil two hours. Serve with sweet sauce. In 
tying bag, leave room to swell. 

MRS. J. BENSON, 

Clifton, Colo. 

Seven Cup Pudding 

1 cup grated braad 1 cup flour 

1 cup sugar 1 cup chopped suet 

1 cup milk 1 teaspoon cinnamon 

1 cup currants or raisins V2 teaspoon soda 

1 cup dates 1 egg 

Mix all dry ingredients together, then add milk 
Steam two hours. Serve with "Easily made pudding 
sa ! I ee. ' ' MRS. JAS. WILLIAMSON, 

Byrnfoot Hill, Ayrshire, Scotland. 

Simple Fruit Pudding 
Beat yolks of 2 eggs with \/+ cup sugar, until light 
add 1 tablespoonful softened butter and !/> CU P m ^ 
Sift together 1 cup Hour, a little salt and 2 teaspoonfuls 
baking powder; stir this in, then fold in the well beaten 
whites, and 1 cup cut dates. Turn in individual cups 
and steam one hour. Serve with "Yellow Sauce" or 

"Chocolate Sauce/' 

MRS. V. E. METZLER. 

Steamed Chocolate Pudding* 
Beat the yolks of 3 eggs till lemon colored and thick 
Add gradually ] •_> cup sugar and continue the beating, 
add 3 tablespoons sweet milk and 1 cupful of Hour and 
boat until smooth. Add \U cup chopped dates. Lastly 
add the well beeatcn whites of those eggs and 2 tea- 



22 DATE COOK BOOK 



spoonfuls baking powder. Turn into greased cups, R1J 
ing half Pull, and steam twenty minutes. Serve with a 
vanilla flavored pudding sauce. "One Egg Sauce" 
would b( good with this pudding. 

Steamed Date Pudding (brought from Scotland) 

! i pound of bread crumbs ', teaspoon soda 

: • pound flour '•_. pound dates cut in Bmall 

1 , pound Bugar picc< 8 

1 1 pound finely chopped suel I 
Mix all dry ingredients together, beal egg and stir 
tid add enough milk to make a thick batter. Pour 
into a buttered mould and cover with buttered paper 
Steam for three hours. Serve with any sweel pudding 
sauce. MRS. H. T. FOTHERGILL, 

' ' lachella, < !al. 

Steamed Date Pudding 

1 cup da1 l egg 

i cup Bweet milk '._. teas] sail 

2 cups Graham flour 2 teaspoons baking powder 

1 teaspoon each of cinnamon, cloves and nutmeg 
Mix weli and steam 3 hours. Serve with "Date 
Sauce. " 

Steamed Indian Pudding 
Pu1 iii a sifter ' ._> cup Indian meal, ' % cup flour, 1 tea- 
spoon sail and 1 teasponfu] soda. Sifl three limes 
.Mix y 2 ( ' li l» suet, ' L . cup molasses and add ' _• cup sour 
milk. Gradually add dry ingredients to this mixture 
and beal well al] together. Add 1 cup dates, well 
floured. Butter mould and steam two hours or more 
then place in the oven until dry outside. 

Miss !•;. METZLER, 

K;m-.'is City, M<>. 



PUDDING SAUCES 



"Hunger is the best sauce." 



Brown Sauce 

"1 eup sugar butter the size of a small 

1 tablespoon of flour 

Set ot! the stove and brown, being careful no1 to burn. 
Add V/z cupa of water, stirring constantly, and boil. 
Flavor with Manilla. MBS. L. H. KILLEY, 

Coachclla, Calif. 

Chocolate Sauce 

2 eups of milk 2 tablespoons hoi water 

1 J j tablespoons cornstarch 2 eg 

2 squares Baker's chocolate % eup powdered i 
4 tablespoons powdered sugar 1 tea poon vanilla 

Scald l : ;i eups milk, add cornstarch diluted with re 
maining milk, and cook 8 minutes in a double boiler; 
melt chocolate ever hot water, add 4 tablespoon* 
and hot water, stir until smooth, then i\<\<\ to cooked 
mixture; beal whites of eggs until stiff; add gradually 
\)0\v<\ar('d sugar and continue beating, then u<\<\ un- 
n yolks, and stir into cooked mixture, cook 1 min- 
ute, add vanilla, and cool before serving. 

MBS. FANNIE M. FABMEB. 



Cream Sauce 
J,, tea 

H'-rt t cream until stiff, then add nd vanilla. 



1 eup whi \ ■ am J -_. tes ouill; 

i J eup po igar 



_• pint. ' 
mean 



24 DATE COOK BOOK 



Date Sauce 

1 cup dates chopped fine % cup hot water 

1 j cup sugar Butter the size of au egg 

3 egg 

Mix all together, and boil a little. 

An Easily Made Pudding Sauce 
Mix 1 tablespoonful Hour with ) •_• cup sugar. Add ( •_• 
pint boiling water. Boil a moment, and pour while hot 
over 1 egg well beaten. Season with lemon or vanilla. 

Hard Sauce 
1 cup powdered Bugar Vz teaspoon cadi of lemon 

■"•t tup batter and vanilla 

Cream butter, add sugar, then flavoring. 

One Egg Sauce 
Yolk of 1 egg I cup sugar 

x z cup butter 2 tablespoons cornstarch 

Pour over this 1 pint boiling water. Stir and cook till 
it thickens, then add 1 tablespoon vinegar, 1 dessertspoon 
vanilla. Pour over the well beaten white of 1 egg. 

MBS. M. A. LAWRENCE, 

Gunnison, Colorado. 

Vanilla Sauce 
Beat yolks of 4 eggs, add 4 tablespoons Bugar and 1 pint 

milk. Allow to come to a boil, stirring continually. Remove 
from the stove, and add ^ teaspoonful vanilla. 

Yellow Sauce 

Beat the yolks of 2 eggs until thick, and add gradually 
1 -2 cup powdered sugar. 

Beat the whites of 2 eggs until stiff, and add gradually 
1 2 ell}) powdered sugar. 

Combine the two mixtures, and flavor with vanilla. 
Add a pineh of salt. 



COLD DESSERTS 



"An't please your Honour,'' quote the peasant, 
"This same dessert is very pleasant. " — Pope. 



Baked Apples 

Take the eores out of good cooking apples, and fill the 
openings with finely chopped dates. 

Bake, after adding a little water, and serve, either hot 
or cold, with cream and a little sugar. 

MBS. HUGH PROCTOR, 
Coaehella, Calif. 

Boiled Custard (no sugar) 

y 2 pound dates cut in small pieces. 
Add 1 pint of milk and a pinch of salt. 

Cook in a double boiler till thick. This will require 
nearly an hour. 

Cereal Custard Pudding (no sugar) 

1 cupful of left over cooked A sprinkling of salt 
cereal Dates 

1 tablespoon of corn syrup 
1 eupful of milk 1 egg 

Mix the beaten egg, milk, syrup and salt ; combine 
with the cereal ; add the dates, and bake as a custard. 

LADIES' HOME JOURNAL. 

Cocoanut and Date Pudding (no sugar) 

1 cup dessieated cocoanut 1 egg 

'•j pound of dates 1 pint of milk 

Stone dates, and then fill a shallow pudding dish with 
alternate layers of cocoanut and dates: beat the egg well. 

One cup means V* pint. Cup, tablespoon and teaspoon all 
mean level measurements. 



26 DATE COOK BOOK 



adding milk, and pour this over the contents of the dish. 
Bake in a moderate oven till a nice brown. 

MRS. H. T. FOTHERGILL, 
Coachella, Calif. 

Dainty Sponge Fruit 

(A most delicious and lij^lit pudding, especially for children.) 
1 &gg, its weight in granulated sugar, and three quarters 
its weight in flour, 1 teaspoonful baking powder. 

Bea1 egg, add sugar and then beat again; next grad- 
ually stir in the flour and baking powder; add 1 dessert- 
spoon of milk, and beat well for three or lour minutes. 
Pour into a well greased baking tin, and bake in ;i quick 
oven for twenty minutes. Serve hot or cold with "stewed 
Dates." MRS. II. T. POTH ERGILL, 

Coachella, Calif. 

Date Bavarian Cream (no sugar) 

1 pint whipping cream 1 envelope gelatine 

1 cup milk 1 cup ground dates 

Soak gelatine in 'j the milk, whip cream stiff; l>oil 
remaining milk and add gelatine. Le1 cool, then beal 
til! it begins to thicken; stir in whipped cream, mix well 
and pour into a mould. Serve with whipped eream 
heaped around 

Date Blanc-Mange (no sugar) 

!'•_> pints of milk V& teaspoon salt 

l' L . tablespoons corn or maple '■> tablespoons of cornstarch 

syrup '- teaspoon vanilla 
]- seeded <lat<'s, cut up small 

Mix the cornstarch with ] | cup milk. Heat the re- 
maining milk in a double boiler, add cornstarch, syrup, 
dates and salt, and stir until thick. Cover and cook for 
twenty minutes. 

Add the vanilla, and pour into a dish to cool. Serves 
live people. M RS. B. E. ROBERTSON, 

Coachella, Calif. 



DATE COOK BOOK 27 

Date Custard (without sugar) 

Scald % cup of stoned and chopped dates with 2 cups of 
milk. Let cool, then add 2 beaten eggs and a pinch of salt. 

Pour into greased custard cups, set in a pan of hot 
water and bake gently till custard is firm. 

Date Delight (no sugar) 

2 tablespoons of nut butter 1 pint of milk 

2 tablespoons of cornstarch 2 eggs 

3 tablespoons of honey 1 cup of chopped dates 
A few grains of salt 

Melt the butter; stir in the cornstarch and the honey, 
;hM the milk and the salt. Cook in a double boiler for 
twenty minutes: add the yolks of the eggs, and (took for 
five minutes. Remove from the fire; field to this the 
beaten whites of the eggs and the dates. Place in cus- 
tard dips for individual serving. 

LADIES' HOME JOURNAL. 

Date Farina Cups (no sugar) 
To ] pint of milk, add \z teaspoonful of salt and l / 2 eup 
of eut up dates. 

When boiling hot, add 6 tablespoons of farina, stirring con- 
tinually. 

Cook until very thick, and flavor with 1 teaspoon lemon 
extract. Pour into individual cups. When cold, turn 
out, and serve with lemon flavored custard sauce, and 
sprinkle thickly with chopped, blanched almonds. 

Date Jelly 

Three-quarter pound of dates. Stone, and boil in a 
little more than 1 quart of water. Strain through a fine 
strainer, rubbing through with a wooden spoon. 

Boil syrup, adding as it thickens 3 tablespoons sugar, 
1 ounce of gelatine, 1 wine glass of sherry, (fruit juice 
may be used i a little lemon juice and the grated rind. 

Pour into ;i wetted mould, and garnish with shredded 
almonds. Mfjs. R. h. POSTLETHWAITE, 

Coaehella, Calif. 



28 DATE COOK P>OOK 



Date Pudding 
(A sugarless pudding which uses both syrup aud sweet fruit) 
- <''M ,S '"'Ik 3 tablespoons cornstarch 

1 .• cup corn <>•• maple Byrup % teaspoon salt 
'•_. eup seeded dates cut up 1 teaspoon vanilla 
small 

Mix the cornstarch with ' ', cup milk. Heat the re- 
maining milk in a double boiler. Add cornstarch, syrup, 
♦ bites and salt: stir until thick. Cover and cook twenty 
minutes. A<1<1 the vanilla, and pour into a dish to cool. 
Prunes are ^ood in place of dates. Serves five people. 
UNITED STATES POOD LEAFLET NO. 15. 

Date Whip 
1 pound 'tat .-s j _. cup sugar (powdered) 

1 pint whipping cream 1 tcaspoonful vanilla 

1 eup Eng. walnut meats 

stem- dates and cul in small pieces. Cul nuts in 
small pieces. Whip cream until stiff, add nuts, sugar 
and dates. Flavor, chill and serve. 

MRS. G. .1. 8HOENHAIB, 
Hollywood, Calif. 

Divinity Pudding 
9 tablespoons of rolled cracker '- pound dates (latter two in- 
crumbs gredients chopped, but not 

2 teaspoons baking powder fine) 

2 cups Bugar »> eggs beaten separately, 

2 cups English walnut meats whites added last 

Pour batter into a pan, and have it not more than 2 
indies thick. Hake in a slow oven thirty minutes. Cut 
in squares, and serve with whipped cream. 

M RS. G. J. BHOENHAIB, 

Hollywood, Calif. 

Floating Island 
1 pint of milk 2 eggs 

1 L' cup of chopped dates I scant tablespoon cornstarch 

Tut dates and milk in a double boiler and heal. Add 



DATE COOK BOOK 29 



cornstarch, mixed smooth with a little milk, and the 
yolks of eggs well beaten. As soon as the custard thick- 
ens, pour into a dish. Beat the whites stiffly, add a 
little sugar and orange flavoring, and drop in small 
portions on the custard. On the top of each "Island" 
put a half date. Serve very cold. 

MRS. V. E. METZLER. 

Fruit Compote 

5 oranges, cut fine 1 cup fresh dates, cut 

4 bananas, cut thin 1 cup walnuts 

1 cup malaga grapes, cut Juice of 1 lemon 

Sprinkle with sugar and ]/i teaspoon cinnamon, and 
add whipped cream on top. 

Harlequin 

Cut marshmallows, and put a layer in the bottom of a sher- 
bet glass, then a layer of coarsely chopped walnuts, a layer 
of fresh cut dates and lastly pineapple, cut in dice. The pine- 
apple must fill the dish. Place whipped cream on top with 
a cherry. 

Marshmallow Pudding' 

One tablespoon gelatine dissolved in a little eold water. 
Boil 1 eup sugar and % cup water till it forms a soft 
ball when tried in eold water, add gelatine and stir just 
enough to mix it with syrup. 

Beat the whites of 4 eggs to a stiff froth, add a pinch 
of salt, then pour over them slowly, beating continually, 
the hot syrup. Continue beating for seme time, or until 
mixture begins to thicken ; then pour in a mould. Chill, 
and serve with whipped cream sprinkled with chopped 
da tes. 

Part of the pudding may be colored if liked, either 
with the pink tablet or chocolate. May be moulded in 
individual moulds, or one large one. 

^MRS. A. O. HAY WARD, 

Thermal, Calif. 



30 DATE COOK ROOK 



Orange and Date Jelly 

Simmer together I 1 - pints water, the juice of 1 lemon, the 
grated rind of 2 oranges, % dozen dates and a little nutmeg. 
Soak 1 tablespoon of gelatine in 1 eup sweet cider, and when 
the water and fruit boils, add this with 1 eup sugar and the 
juice of 2 oranges. 

Stir, and strain, but keep warm, except one table- 
spoon, which cool at once, and use in placing quarters 
and halves of dates around the edge of a mould set di- 
rectly on iee. 

After these are firm, add more jelly and fruit in lay- 
ers. Turn «>ut when stiff, and surround with whipped 
cream. 

Sweet Fruit Pudding- 
Heat 1 pint of milk. 
Wei 6 level tablespoons cornstarch with a Little cold 

milk, stir this into the boiling milk, and cook until 
oth. 
!'. ;,( the whites £8 until stiff, add l , eup sugar, 

then beal into the pudding. 

Stir well over the fire two minutes, then add 1 cup 

of dessicated cocoanut, or half a fresh <>nr. and 1 eup 

seeded and chopped dates. 1 teaspoonful vanilla. 

Put in a mould, and let chill, and serve with "Vanilla 

Sauce." MISS ALBERTA METZLEB. 

Tapioca Pudding (no sugar) 
Sons 3 tablespoons tapioca in 8 little water til! soft. Boil 
I'... pints milk and add tapioca. Put in the well beaten yolks 
£gs and 1 tablespoon cornstarch mixed with a little milk. 
Add % cup cut da1 - 

Let it just come to a boil, then pour into a dish to 
cool. Beal the whites of the eggs to a stiff froth, stir in 
a little powdered sugar, and put on the top of cream. 



DATE COOK BOOK 31 

Date Parfait 

1 pint of whipping eream 3 tablespoons water 

4 eggs v 2 pound ground dates, 

v , eup sugar weighed after grinding 

Boil sugar and water in a small dish until it just begins 
to "spin a thread", then pour over the well beaten eggs, 
beating continually. Let cool. Whip the cream, add 
dates, and. with a fork, mix them well through the 
eream, add the egg and syrup and pour in a mould. 
Pack in ice and salt, and freeze about four hours. If 
small moulds are used (baking powder cans are good) 
not as long a time is required for freezing. Dip a nar- 
row strip of muslin in melted grease, and stretch tightly 
around where the can and lid join to insure keeping 
salty water out. MBS. V. E. MBTZLER, 

Coaehella, Calif. 

Ice Cream 

1 quart thin eream 1% teaspoons vanilla 
% eup sugar 2 cups dates 

Stone and grind the dates, let them soak a few hours 
in the cream, then add sugar and flavoring and freeze 
in the usual way. 

Tutii Fruita Ice Cream 

2 .-lips milk % eup sugar 
Yolks .5 eggs V-> teaspoon salt 

2 '•_. cups thin eream 1 tablespoon vanilla 

L% cups fruit eut in small pieces 

Make a custard of first four ingredients, strain, and 
cool. Add the cream and flavoring, then freeze to the 
consistency of mush, add the fruit, and continue 
freezing. 

May be served this way, or put in a mould, packed in 
salt and ice and let stand 2 hours, then slice. 

For fruit, use candied cherries, dates, pineapple, figs, 
sultana raisins ami citron, all, or a part ot* them. 



CONFECTIONS 



.Sweets to the Sweet ' 



Bon-Bon Cream 
5 pounds of sugar 1 VL' pints water 

drops acetic aeid 

Put sugar and water in a kettle, and set on a hot stove, 
stir till well dissolved. Just before it boils splash it up 
on the sides of the kettle to wash down the undissolved 
sugar, then wipe sides of the kettle with a damp cloth. 
Nov: put in aeid, and cover and steam for a few minutes. 
Remove cover, and put in the thermometer, and cook 
to 240 degrees. Pour out and cool quickly. When per- 
fectly eold, work it, and set away with a cloth over it 
wrung out of eold water. 

Do not stir after it begins to boil. 

Do not jar or move the kettle while the syrup is 
cooking. 

Do not grease the platter or slab on which the fondant 
is pOured. Never put the scrapings with the main part, 
and do not move while cooling. Nice to use alone, or 
with other combinations to stun dates. 

Chocolate Dainties 

Put through a meat chopper ' _• cup each of dates, figs 
and nut meats. Add 1 tablespoon orange juice and a lit- 
tle giated orange peel, and 1 square of melted, sweet- 
ened chocolate. 

Mould in balls, and roll in chopped nuts or granulated 
sugar. This mixture may be packed in an oiled tin, put 
under a weight until firm, then cut in any shape desired. 

One cup means 1-2 pint. Cup, tablespoon and teaspoon all 
mean level measurements. 



DATE COO K BOOK 33 

Chocolate Dates 

Remove the seed from dates, roll them up and coat 
with chocolate. Or. stuff these dates with chopped hick- 
ory nut meats. Press firmly together and coat with choc- 
olate. They are very fine. 

Use confectioner's "Coating Chocolate/' either sweet 

or bitter, which is preferred. If you cannot procure the 

coating chocolate, use the regular baking chocolate, and, 

after it is melted, add enough XXXX sugar to sweeten. 

"THE ABT OF HOME CANDY MAKING." 

Chocolate Dominoes 

Vz cup pecan meats Grated rind of 1 orange 

'- cup English walnut meats 1 tablespoon orange juice 

*/& cup figs 1 square chocolate 

Y% cup dates 

Mix nuts and fruit, and put through a food chopper. 
Wet with the orange juice, mix in the grated rind, and 
roll in a ball. Lay on a baking board, which has been 
covered with sifted confectioner's sugar, and roll y* inch 
thick. Cut in shapes the size of a domino, and spread 
with melted chocolate. On top lay little rounds cut from 

blanched almonds to imitate dominoes. 

MRS. I. G. CURTIS. 

Thermal, Calif. 

Date Balls 
Put stoned dates through a meat chopper, roll in balls, 
and then in ground nut meats. 

MRS. A. 0. HAYWARD, 

Thermal, Calif. 

Date Brittle 

2 pounds sugar Bates 

y<* pound glucose Vanilla extract 

% pint water 

Put the sugar, glucose and water in a kettle and stir 
until it commences to boil. Wash down the sides of the 



34 DATE COOK BOOK 



kettle and steam. Put in the thermometer and cook to 
27.") or 280. Flavor with vanilla. Stir lightly because 
the syrup may turn to sugar. Pour on a greased slal> 
which has been previously covered with cut dates. When 
cold cu1 into small piec< 3. 

"THE AKT OF HOME CANDY MAKING." 

Date Delight 

2 cups light brown sugar 1 cup chopped da 

1 fitp granulated sugar 1 tablespoonful of butter 

1 cup milk 1 teaspoon vanilla 

Boil sugar and milk a Pew minutes, add butter and 
boil until ;i soft hall v. ill form in water. 

Add vanilla and dates, beat till creamy, and pour into 
a buttered pan. < Jut in squares. 

Miss BEATRICE McLEISH, 
Riverside, Calif. 

Date Caramels 
Take any dry date, seed and put through a grinder. 
Press into a cake and cut in squares aboul the size of 
a caramel. 

Dip in melted confectioner's chocolate, sweetened to 
taste. MRS. C. 0. moss, 

Coachella, Calif. 

Dates Instead of Candy 
To 2 cups date pulp (which has been put through the 
finest knife of the chopper) use 2 Large tablespoons mil 
butter. Mix thoroughly, knead a short time, thru roll 
out an inch in thickness, and cut in cubes. 
Roll in oiled paper. 

This out and fruit combination will keep some time. 

MRS. E. PALM ER, 
Mecca, Calif. 



DATE COOK BOOK 35 

Date Kisses 

Whites of 4 eggs % cup ground nuts 

2 cups brown sugar 

t pound chopped dates Vanilla flavoring 

Beat the whites to a stiff froth, add sugar, then dates, 
which have been cut very fine or ground, and weighed 
after stoning, then add nuts and vanilla. Drop from a 
teaspoon on lightly buttered baking sheets, and bake in 
a slow oven until slightly brown. 

MRS. E. PALMER, 

Mecca, Calif, 

Fruit Paste 

Use dried apricots and dates. 

Wash apricots, and soak over night in enough water 
to cover. Pour off water, bring to a boil, pour over apri- 
cots, and let stand till cold. Put apricots and dates 
through a meat chopper. There should be half a pint of 
fruit and juice. 

Heat the fruit, and add 2 tablespoons gelatine, previ- 
ously .softened in a very little cold water. Stir well, and 
continue stirring until it begins to cool and thicken, then 
pour into an oiled dish to make a layer 1 inch 'thick. 

Let ih-y slowly, sprinkle with sugar and place in box 
with waxed paper between the layers. 

Fruit Roll 

Boil 2 cups white sugar with Vz cup water till it forms 
a soft ball in cold water. 

Remove from the fire, let cool and beat until it creams. 
Be careful not to have too stiff. 

Add 1 cup each of finely chopped dates and figs, and 
beal as long as possible. Roll in a wet cloth, and leave 
in a cool place over night. 

Sli.-c in thin strips or cut in fancy shapes. 



PATH COOK BOOK 



Fruit Toffe 
One pound loaf sugar, 1 cup water and 1 teaspoon 
(•renin of tartar. Boil till hard when tried in water. 

Then take fruit, such as grapes, dates, pieces of orange 
or any other fruit and dip in the toffe while hot. 
They will soon become hard. 

MRS. II. A. POTHEKGILL, 

Coachella, Calif. 

Holiday Hash 
_ eups granulated sugar ^ cup golden corn syrup 

1 ■_. eup of maple or brown 1 cup water and ;i pinch of 

sugar of cream «»t" tartar. 

Boil to tin- hard "soft ball" stage, add 1 teaspoonful 
of vanilla and pour over the stiffly beaten whites of 2 
eggs. Have ready ] \ cup each of chopped dates, can- 
died cherries, citron and orange rind and ' .• cup of 
chopped or shredded cocoanut. 

Beal the syrup till lighl and foamy, then stir in the 
fruit. Pour in a buttered tin, and mark off into squares. 

Nut and Fruit leaf 
I pound dates 'j pound of raisins 

1 2 pound dried figs 1 pint shelled peanuts 

'•_. pint citron %> pint shelled walnuts 

Put all of the above through a grinder. 

Boil l-pound sugar, '_ eup vinegai and 1 tablespoon 
butter until quite hard, but nol brittle, when dropped in 
eold water. 

Beat until partly eold, then add fruit and uuts. 

When it begins to harden, turn on a damp cloth and 
work into a roll. Wrap the cloth about it, and. when 
cold, cut in thin slices. MBS. T. .J. GBIDLEY, 

Persian Sweets 

1 pound of figs 1 pound English walnut meats 

1 pound dates Confectioner's sugar 



DATE COOK BOOK 



Remove stems from figs anl stones from dates. Mix 
fruit with nut meats, and force through a meat-chopper. 
Work with the hands on a board dredged with confec- 
tioner's sugar, until well blended. Roll to V± inch thick- 
ness, shape with a small round cutter, or cut with a 
sharp knife in % inch squares. Roll each piece in con- 
fectioner's sugar, and shake to remove superfluous sugar. 
Pack in a layer in a tin box, putting waxed paper be- 
tween each layer. These confections may be used at 
dinner in place of bon-bons or ginger chips. 

MRS. F. M. FARMER, 

Stuffed Dates 

Remove the stones from dates. Fill with peanuts, wal- 
nuts, hickory nuts or any nuts available. Peanut butter 
makes a good filling. Press dates in shape and roll in 
granulated sugar, chopped nuts or a mixture of cocoa and 
p o wde re d e i n n a m o n . 

Stone dates and fill with cheese, or pimiento cheese 
or minced olives. 

Dates may be filled with any kind of fondant. 

Pendant mixed with nuts, fondant with candied fruit, 
with chocolate or any combination. 

Fill dates with a mixture of marshmallows, candied 
cherries and pineapple. 

Sugarless Caramels 
Pass 1 pound dates. 1 pound of figs and Yi pound of 
pecans through a grinder. Soften with a little lemon 
juice. Cut into caramel shapes, and roll lightly in gran- 
ulated sugar. 

War Time Candy 
Boil 1 cup corn syrup, or molasses, until it is quite hard 
when dropped in cold water; then pour it slowly, stirr- 
ing constantly, over puffed rice and a few cut up dates. 



PIES and TARTS 



"No soil upon earth is so dear to our eyes, 
As the soil we first stirred in terrestrial pies." 

— Holmes. 



Pie Paste 

% cup lard or other shortening % tea spoonsful salt 
1 V2 cups flour Cold water 

Mix shortening and salt with the flour, and moisten 
to a dough with the cold water. 

Puff Paste 
1 cup flour 1 tablespoonful laid 

Scant cup luitter Cold, or ice water 

Work lard into the flour, and moisten dough with ice 
water. Put out on a hoard, and roll out, using as little 
flour as possible. Dot paste with small pieces of butter, 
sprinkle with flour and fold both ways so it will make 
4 layers. Roll out, and repeat until butter is used. 
Roll, shape, chill and bake in a hot oven. 

Buttermilk Pie 
1 cup buttermilk 1 tablespoonful of flour 

' 1 eup Bugar >.. teaspoon cinnamon 

1 cup chopped dati s 

Bake in two crusts. MRS. s. 8. METZLER, 

Denver, Colorado. 
Christmas Pie 
.". large lemons ■* pounds brown sugar 

2 dozeu apples 1 ounce eaeh oi candied 
2 pounds stoned raisins orange, lemon and citron 
1 pound stoned dates peel 

1 pound currants 1 small pot marmalade 



One cup means ] j pint. Cup, tablespoon and teaspoon all 
mean level measurements. 



DATE COOK BOOK 39 



lVo pounds suet 1 pint boiled cider 

Bake like mince pieces. MRS. J. E. MASTEN, 

La Colle, Quebec, Canada. 

Combination Pie 

2 cups chopped dates % cup sugar 

1 eup raw apples l 1 ^ cups milk 

1 egg 

Put dates and apples through a meat chopper, add the 
rest of the ingredients, and bake in one crust with 
twisted straps across the top. K. HAYWARD, 

Thermal, Calif. 

Cottage Cheese Pie 

One-half cup finely cut dates soaked in 1 cup milk 
for about two hours. 

One cup very fine and smooth cottage cheese, and add 
to this 2 well beaten eggs. 

Add gradually V± cup sugar, then add milk and dates; 
V 2 teaspoon salt and 1 tablespoon lemon juice. 

Bake in one crust. (If dates are not used Vi eup 
sugar will be necessary.) MBS. V. E. METZLER. 

Date Cream Pie 

4 tablespoons Criseo Yo cup sugar 

4 tablespoons flour 1 cup dates stoned and cut 

•"•, teaspoon salt 2 eggs well beaten 

2 cups milk Plain pastry 

Melt Criseo and in it cook flour and salt till frothy; 
add milk, and stir till boiling; add sugar and dates, and 
stir til) dates are softened a little. Beat in the eggs, 
and turn in a pie plate lined with pastry. 

Bake till crust is brown and custard set. 

JANET McKENZIE HILL. 

Date and Apple Pie 
Enough paste for upper and lower erust. 
Pill pie pan nearly full of nice juicy apples, sliced. 



40 DATE C OOK BOOK 

Sprinkle with a little .sugar and a very little flour. 
On top of this place a layer of stoned dates, and put 
on top cover. Bake in n moderate oven. 

MRS. G. SHOPE, 
Coaehella, Calif. 

Date and Nut Pie 
1 cup ground dates 2 cups water 

\ii cup nut meats Yolks of 3 eggs 

'.; cup sugar Whites of eggs for frosting 

1 cup of milk l tablespoons cornstarch 

Grind dates and nuts, add t<> milk and water, and heat, 
add sugar, and. when all is mixed, stir in the cornstarch 
which has been made smooth with a little milk. Add 
yolks of eggs, cock a little Longer, then put in previously 
baked crusts. Makes two large pics. 

MRS, W. G. SAVAGE, 
Coaehella, Calif. 

Date Pie (no sugar) 
One pound dates, stoned, and cut in small pieces. Soak 
over night, or for several hours in 1 pint thin sweet 
• •ream. In th.- morning, add 1 whole egg and yolks of 
two more, reserving remaining whites for frosting. Bake 
in one crust 

This amount makes one very large pie. or two mod- 
erate sized ones. MRS. SPABLING, 

Denver, Colorado. 

Date Pie II (no sugar) 

I pint of inilk :; i cup stoned dates 

1 j teaspoonful nutmeg 
A pinch of salt 

Cook milk and dates in a double boiler till soft. Rub 
through a colander, add eggs and salt. Bake in one 
crust. 

Date Strips 
Use any good pie paste or puff paste, and roll as you 
would for pie crust. Cut in squares or strips and brush 



DATE COOK BOOK 41 

over lightly with the unbeaten white of an egg. Put on 
a baking sheet, and sprinkle each with ground nuts and 
dates mixed. 

This is a good way to use. left over pie erust. 

Date Tartlets 
1 cup sugar X A cup milk 

Y2 cup butter 1 cup dates 

3 eggs % cup English walnut meats 

1 teaspoonful vanilla 
Cream butter and sugar, add yolks of eggs, milk and 
dates, which have been cooked in a little water till tender. 
Line gem pans with pie paste, put in mixture, and 
bake. Beat whites of eggs, add powdered sugar and 
vanilla for meringue. Brown if liked. This amount 
makes twelve tarts. 

(Since food conservation, the above rule has been tried with- 
out sugar, and found to be extra nice.) 

MRS. BRUCE DRUMMOND, 

Indio, Calif. 

Sour Cream Pie 

1 en] 1 sour cream 1 teaspoon vinegar 

1 cup sugar 1 teaspoon cinnamon 

1 cup dates y 2 teaspoon cloves 

Line a pan with crust, bake a little, add filling, and 
\n\h- slowly till filling is set. MRS. FRED MAISON, 

Coaehella, Calif. 

Sweet Cream Pie 
Make and bake a crust and set away to cool. 
One cup whipping cream ; 2 teaspoons sugar ; ]A cup 
finely ground dates (do not pack down to measure.; 
Flavoring to taste. 

Whip cream until stilt', then add dates, sugar and 
flavoring. 

When erust is cool, till with the cream, and set in a 
cool place until used. Must be eaten same day it is marie. 

MRS. A. F. DECKER 
Crested Butte, Colorado 



El CAKE e 



•'•Mv rule. 1 Why certainly: It's queer: 
But no one ever ate that cake, 
Who does not ash me for the rule — 

much to use, to bake. ' ') 



I eup brown - 
tp butter 

nps hoi appl ( mi- 

at d i into which put 

1 scant teas] nful soda, 

mash. 



Apple Sauce Cake (in Layers) 

'■_. teaspoonful each <>i' cloves 

and salt 
1 teaspoonful cinnamon 
i j be omitted I 
1 cup chopped dates and rai- 
ith 2 cup'- flour 
1 teaspoonful vanilla 

I !' liked 'j cup of chopped nuts may be added. 
Bake in two layers, and put together with frosting 
jelly. MBS. A. BACBETT, 

Bollywood, Calif. 

Apple Sauce Loaf Cake 



2 eups hot appli 
2 tea loda 

spoon snlt 
I cup sugar 
':: cup shortening 
1 cup 
l cup stoned • '■ 

Enough flour for 
Mix in the order 
keep a long time. 



1 L . pound chopped cit pod 
I teaspoon cinnamon 
1 teaspoon cloves 
I teaspoon allspice 
L' teaspoons baking powder in 
flour 

pal lu r thick batter. 

given, and bake one hour. Will 

MRS. a. A. 8H0PE, 
Coachella. Calif. 



cup means '•_• pint, 
mean level mea ■ 



ilesi 



>n and teaspoon all 



DATE COOK BOOK 



Cake or Pudding 

1 pound dates, stoned and cut ^ teaspoon salt 

1 cup Eng. walnut meats 4 eggs 

y 2 cup flour y 2 tablespoon Criseo 

1 teaspoon baking powder *£ cup sugar 

Beat the whites of eggs, stir in the sugar, add yolks 
of eggs, Criseo, then the dates, nuts, flour, baking pow- 
der and salt. Turn into a greased pan, and bake thirty 
minutes. Cut in squares, and use as cake or pudding 
with whipped cream. MRS. BRUCE DRUMMOND, 

Indio, Calif. 

Cracker Cake 

6 egg yolks, creamed 1 cup nuts 

1 cup sugar 4 tablespoons cracker crumbs 

1 cup dates 1 teaspoon baking powder 

Add slightly beaten whites last. Bake slowly. 

MRS. K. CHAMBERLAIN, 
Coachella, Calif. 

Crumby Toast 

t> eggs beaten separately ^ pound chopped walnuts 

•"•j cup butter 1 pound dates 

1 cup sugar <5 tablespoons fine bread 

crumbs 

Cream butter and sugar, add yolks beaten well, then 
add dates and nuts, which have been cut in small pieces. 
Mix baking powder and crumbs and add to mixture, 
and lastly add well beaten whites. 

Bake in a rather thin sheet in a moderate oven. 

Serve with whipped cream as a frosting. 

MRS. ELLIS, 

Denver, Colo. 

Crumb Cake 

1 cup sugar 1 pound of dates 

1 cup bread crumbs V% pound walnuts 



i4 DATK <'()()K BOOK 



1 teaspoon baking powder 
A pinch of salt 

Heat yolks of eggs, add sugar, dates, nuts, salt and 
crumbs, with which mix the baking powder. Lastly 
fold in the well-beaten whites. Bake in a loaf. Slice in 
J /2-inch slices or break in pieces, and servo with 
whipped cream as a dessert. 

" PABMEB'S win:." 

Date Cake 

Weighl of :» eggs in each shli:u and flour, 

Weighl of 2 eggs in butter. 

1 teaspoon baking powder. 

Grated rind of 1 Lemon, or 1 tablespoon marmalade. 

Put in the 'A eggs. 

About thirty dates, halved, stoned and the hoh-s 
filled with almonds, blanched and halved. 

Beat sugar and butter to a cream, add beaten eggs, 
then flour and baking powder, Lastly grated lemon 
rind. 

Put this mixture in tin about eight inches square, 
and on tin- top lay dates in rows close together. 

Bake about twenty minutes. When cold, turn up- 
side down, as dates will have sunk to the bottom, 

[ce with the juice of an orange made stiff with pow- 
dered SUgar. MBS. C. COLQUHOUN, 

New Zealand. 

Date Cake (Without Eggs) 

1 cup sugar I teaspoonful of soda 

y% cup shortening 2 cups flour 

of all kinds l'-_> pounds of dates, stone! 

1 eup sour milk and chopped 

Mix in the usual way, and bake in a loaf. 

Miss VIOLA MEYER, 

Coachella, Calif. 



DATE COOK BOOK 45 



Date Loaf 

% cup Crisco 4 teaspoons baking power 

1 cup sugar mixed with the flour 

1 egg- 1 cup dates, cut fine 

2 cups milk 1 cup walnuts cut 
4 cups flour 

Sift a little Hour over dates and nuts to prevent stick- 
ing;. Citron or lemon peel is an improvement. Bake 
in a slow oven 1 hour. MRS. w. L. PAUL, 

Coachella, Calif. 

Date and Nut Loaf 

1 pound of dates, weighed 4 level teaspoonfuls baking 

after stoning powder 

1 pound walnuts 4 eggs, yolks and whites 

1 cup flour beaten separately 

Vo teaspoon salt 1 teaspoonful of vanilla 

1 cup sugar 

Mix salt and baking powder well with flour, add dates 
and walnuts, then sugar, and mix thoroughly. Add 
yolks and fold in the whites. Put in a loaf tin lined 
with buttered paper, and bake in a slow oven 1 hour. 
Will keep a long- time. 

MRS. BRUCE DEIIMMOXD, 

Indio, Calif. 

Date Shortcake 

1 cup sugar 1 tablespoon butter 

1 egg 1 cup sweet milk 

2 teaspoons baking powder Flavoring 

2 rounded up cups flour 

Bake in round pans. 

For filling; grind dates in meat chopper, beat white 
of egg' with 1 tablespoon of water; add a little sugai 
and the dates and spread between layers. 
May be used either •<}* cake or shortcake. 

MRS. C. E. COOK. 

Indio, Calif. 



4,5 DATE COOK BOOK 



Devil's Cake 

y 4 cup butter u C up wheat flour 

% cup brown sugar v. C up barley flour 

• ■» cups finely minced dates \i cup cocoa 

2 yolks of eggs 1 teaspoon vanilla 

% cup sour cream 2 whites of eggs 
Ha teaspoon soda 

.Mix in order given. Bake in a moderate oven. 

MBS. T. J. G R] I) LEV, 

Dutch Bread 
Put into a sifter % cup SU ga r> iy 2 cups flour, y 2 
poonful each of cinnamon, allspice and baking 
powder. Add l/ 2 cup dates, \'- 2 cup nut meats, 1 cup 
sour milk, 1 tablespoon shortening, yolk of 1 egg, 4 
tablespoons orange marmalade (or any jam,) y 4 Tea- 
spoon soda. Salt. 

Bea1 well, and bake in a loaf in a moderate oven. 

Fruit Cake 
Cream togethei l / 2 cup drippings or vegetable fat, 
l /o cup butter and 1 cup sugar; then gradually ;nh\ 1 
well beaten eggs. Add 1 cup molasses, V 2 pound of cur- 
rants, y 2 pound of dates, 1 pound ^v<l<\ raisins, \. 
pound of shredded candied citron peel, ' , cup chopped 
nut meats, ' ■ cup fruil juice, 4 cups flour mixed and 
sifted with 3 teaspoons baking powder, V 4 teaspoon salt, 
L | teaspoons powdered ginger, 1 teaspoon each of pow- 
d( red cloves and cinnamon and nutmeg. Mix well, turn 
into a greased and papered cake tin. and bake in a mod- 
erat< ly hot oven for :{ hours. 

Gingerbread 
Cream U cup butter with J 2 cup sugar. Add 2 well 
beaten eggs. Beat this into 1 cup molasses and 1 tea- 



DATE COOK BOOK 47 

.spoon each of cinnamon, ginger and cloves. Add 1 cup 
boiling water in which dissolve 2 teaspoons soda. 
Finally beat in 2 1 A cups flour sifted with 1 teaspoon 
baking powder and y 2 teaspoon salt. 

Beat thoroughly, and do not add any more flour 
though batter seems thin. 

Pour in a dripping pan, sprinkle chopped dates and 
a few nuts over top, and bake slowly 45 minutes. 

MRS. H. A. WESTERFIELD, 

Coachella, Calif. 

Lightening Cake 

% cup soft butter 1% cups flour 

1% cups brown sug:u 3 teaspoons baking powder 

2 eggs \(> teaspoon cinnamon 

y 2 cup milk y 2 teaspoon grated nutmeg' 

'•_. pound dates, stoned and cut in pieces 

Put ingredients in a bowl and beat all together for 
three minutes. Bake in a buttered and floured cake 
pan thirty-five to forty minutes. If directions are fol- 
lowed this makes a very satisfactory cake; but if in- 
gredients are added separately it will not prove a 
success. MRS. G. SHOPE, 

Coachella, Calif. 

Marble Cake (1 Egg) 

'.•: em violet shortening or 1 teaspoonful vanilla 

Crisco l' teaspoonfuls baking powder 

1 egg 2 cups flour 

% teaspoonful salt 1 cup sugar 
% eup milk 

Brown Part 

3 large tablespoonfuls batter 1. teaspoonful cocoa or choc- 
A.dcl cinnamon, eloves and olatc 

nutmeg 1 cup dates, cut in small pieces 

Cream shortening and sugar, add well beaten egg. 
vanilla and salt, sifl baking powder ;\nA Hour, stir into 



48 DATE COOK BOOK 



sugar mixture alternately with the milk, add well beaten 
white of 1 egg: last. Beat a long time. 

Place in alternate spoonfuls in a loaf cake pan, and 
bake in a mod. Tate oven, MBS. T. M. MILLEB, 

Los A.ng< les, < !alif. 

New England Election Cake With Dates 
Cream ! • cup of butter and work with the hand into 
1 cup light bread dough; add 1 egg, well beaten, 1 cup 
soft brown sugar, ' \ cup sour milk, ] :: cup chopped rai- 
sins, '- cup dates, and o' finely chopped figs. 
Dredge fruit with a small amount of flour. 
Mix and sift I 1 , cups Ikuir with ' - teaspoonful soda. 

I teaspoonful cinnamoD % teaspoonful nutmeg 
; , teaspoonful eloves 1 teaspoonful Bait 

% teaspoonful mace 

\dd to first mixture and mix well. 

Put into a buttered bread pan, covered and lei rise 

I I . hours. 

Hake in a slow oven. Frost if desired. 

MISS A.LBEBTA METZLEB, 
< . ehella, Calif. 

One E^g Spice Cake 

'■_• cup Crisco 1 t . as ; oonful soda 

1 cop sugar Cinnamon, nutmeg and cloves 

I cup sour milk to taste 

dour I cup dates and raisins mixed 

Combine in the usual way, and bake in a loaf. 

MBS. M. McLEISH, 

Biverside, Calif. 

Plum Cake 

I pound fiour 2 ounci - candied lemon peel 

t 4 pound butter '•.. pint milk 



DATE COOK BOOK 49 

'•!> pound sugar 1 teaspoonful soda 

Y2 pound dates 

Put in ,-i basin, flour, sugar, dates, and sliced candied 
peel. Bent butter to a cream, and mix it with above in- 
gredients, and milk. Stir in soda dissolved in 2 table- 
spoons milk; add to dough, and beat the whole until all 
is well mixed. 

Put dough in a buttered tin, and bake from 1% to 
2 hours. MKS, R. H. POSTLETHWAITB, 

Coachella, Calif. 

Ribbon Cake (Layers) 

2 cups sugar ;■! cups flour 

% cup butter 4 teaspoonfuls baking powder 

3 eggs 1 teaspoonful flavoring 

1 cup milk 

Bake % of the above. To the remaining add 1 table- 
spoonful of molasses, 1 cup chopped dates, spices and a 
trifle more flour. When cakes are baked, put together 
alternately with a very thin layer of jelly. 

Sour Cream Cake 

lV> cups s<hit eream 1 teaspoon soda 

! V. eups sugar 1' cups flour 

•"■ eggs 1 teaspoon baking powder 

x /-2 cup each of dates and A little salt and flavoring 

raisins 

Mix, and bake in a loaf. MRS. R. F. HAISH, 

Hollywood, ('alif. 

Three-Minute Date Cake 

2 eggs I'-'i cups flour 

'•_. cup sweet milk 4 teaspoons baking powder 

P,'. ( .,,j.s brown sugar Y 2 teaspoon cinnamon 

% cup melted butter \- 2 teaspoon nutmeg 

Beat for three minutes, and bake in two layers for 
twenty minutes. Put "Date Orange Curd" between 
layers, and "Orange Icing" on top. 

MKS. J. Q. NUSBAUM, 

Coachella, Calif. 



50 DATE COOK BOOK 



Waihi Cake (From New Zealand) 

\fo pound butter, beaten to a 4 eggs added one by one 

cream -with the hand 1 pound of flour mixed with 4 

1 ■_. pound sugar, added and level teaspoons baking pow- 

beaten der 

Add flour alternately with ! •_> c ip warm milk. 

Lastly add ' ■_> pound of dates and 2 ounces candied 
peel cut fine. Can be baked in Large tins or individuals. 
MBS. K. il. POSTLETHWAITE, 
Coachella, Calif. 

War Time Spice Cake 

', cup "t" Crisco l - teaspoonful cinnamon 

% cup Bugai 'i teaspoonful cloves 

1 ■_• cup Karo '•_■ teaspoonful allspice 

A pinch of salt 

':': cup milk, :i pinch of ginger 1 cup cut dat< - 

1 teaspoonful of vanilla 1% cup barley flour 

.*< teaspoonfuls baking powder l egg 

Cream sugar, Crisco -aiu\ egg yolk: add karo and stir. 
A.dd alternately the milk and dry ingredients sifted to 
gether. Add the flavoring, and fold in the Well beaten 
whites. Bake in a moderate oven in a loaf. 

White Cake 
1 cup butter and 2 cups sugar :; > :; eups Aout with which sift 
creamed 4 teaspoonfuls baking pow> 

1 cup sweet milk der 

Whites of 8 eggs 1 teaspoonful vanilla or al- 

mond flavoring 

Bake either as a loaf or in layers. Pour whole eggs 
may be used instead of th<' 8 whites. 

Use boiled frosting with « •_. vwp each chopped dates 
and unts added. MRS. a. g. PROCTOR, 

Coachella, Calif. 



COOKIES and SMALL CAKES 



Appetite comes with eating." Rabelais. 



Bishop's Bread, No. 1 

4 eggs and 2 eups sugar beaten 2 cups flour 

well together 1% teaspoon baking powder 

I cup dates Pinch salt and 1 teaspoon 

1 cup nuts vanilla 

Bake in a shallow pan slowly for about forty minutes. 

MRS. K. CHAMBERLAIN, 

Coachella, Calif. 

Bishop's Bread, No. 2 

3 eggs well beaten, lVi cups flour 

add 1 cup sugar, and beat 3 2 teaspoonfuls baking powder 
minutes Add % cup each of dates, rai- 

sins and almonds cut fine 

Rake in a moderate oven, and when done and still 
hot, cut in oblong strips. Eat when cold. 

MRS. M. REYNOLDS, 

Hollywood, Calif. 

Cake Balls 

Use any good sponge cake. The following is a good 
one given by Mrs. R. H. Postlcthwaite : 

Four eggs, beaten separately. To the yolks add 1 
scant cup sugar and a pinch of salt. Beat well, then 
add y 2 cup potato flour in which put 1 teaspoon bak- 
ing powder. Beat again, and add vanilla, and lastly 
the whites of the eggs. Bake in a moderate oven till 

One f-up means V-> pint. Cup, tablespoon end teaspoon all 
mean level measurements. 



DATK rook' |j()(jK 



it rises, then increase the heat for a few minutes I" 
hold it up, and bake in a shallow slab till brown. 

To make the balls, cut sponge cake in I inch squares, 
or a little larger, nip off the corners with a knife and 
dip in "Boiled Frosting", then roll in a mixture of 
dales and nuts. 

Chocolate Cookies 
1 cup brown sugar 3 oz. chocolate 

'•_. cup batter 1^ cups flour 

■ _• cup sour milk !._. cup nuts 

l egg 1 cup ground da1 is 

'•j teaspoon soda 

Drop from a spoon and bake. 

Coachella Brownies 

Cream \ ■_ cup butter with 1 cup sugar, add 2 scanl 
squares of Baker's chocolate, melted. 

2 < i *zx* slightly beaten, ] •_• cup chopped almonds. 

1 2 cup cut up dry dates 

1 2 cup sifted flour. 

Bake in a thin layer for ten minutes in a moderate 
oven. When done, cut in strips or squares. 

Christmas Cakes 
6 eggs 1 cup almonds eut fine 

1 cupful of granulated sugar 1 cup dates stoned and eul fine 
I cup full bread crumbs, sifted '•_■ pound figs chopped fine 

lino 1 teaspoonful baking powder 

1 tablespoonful lemon juice 

Beal the yolks and sugar well and add gradually in 
succession, beating well all the time, the Lemon juice, 
nuts, dates, figs, bread crumbs and baking powder 
mixed; and, lastly, the whites beaten until stiff. Hake 
in a single sheel about \[. inch thick. Cover with plain 



DATE COOK BOOK 



boiled icing, and sprinkle generously with a mixture 
of chopped figs, nuts and dates. 
Cut in small diamond shapes. 

MBS. V. E. METZLER, 
Coachella, Calif. 

Date Cake 

2 cups sugar 2 cups walnuts 

4 eggs 2 tablespoons flour 

2 cups dates 2 teaspoons baking powder 

Bake in a thin sheet for one-half hour in a slow oven. 

Nice in layers, with whipped cream between. 

MRS. LIBBIE SALES,. 

Los Angeles, Calif. 

Date Crackers 
Put 1 scant pound stoned dates, 1 cup granulated 
sugar, and y 2 cup cold water together and boil till soft. 
Allow to cool. Cream 1 cup brown sugar and 1 cup 
butter, or other shortening, then add 2% cups rolled 
oats and 2 1 - cups flour. Mix well with the hands. Add 
\/ 2 cup warm water in which dissolve 1 teaspoon soda. 

Divide the dough in 2 equal parts, roll very thin, 

spread date mixture on one layer, place second layer 

on top of filling, and cut in squares. Bake to a light 

u in hot oven. 

Thes with coffer- or to use as a regular 

":y. LADIES' HOME JOUENAL, May, 1912. 

Date Cookies 

p butter aspoonful salt 

:up sugar *4 teaspoonful einnamon 

»gs l u cup chopped walnuts 

spoonful soda dissolved % eup dat -. seed d and 

in ?> tal -our chopped 

milk 1% • 



r>4 DATE COOK BOOK 



Cream butter, add sugar gradually, then add egg 
well beaten, soda dissolved in milk, */> cup of the flour 
mixed and sifted with salt and cinnamon. Add wal- 
nuts, dates and the rest of the flour. Drop by spoon- 
fuls, one inch apart on a greased pan, and bake in a 
moderate oven. albert METZLEB, 

Coachella, Calif. 

Date Macaroons 

1 cup sugar - cups sifted Hour 
% cup butter % teaspoon soda 

2 eggs 1 teaspoon salt 

Stir until light and creamy ] teaspoon cinnamon 

Sift flour, soda, salt and cinnamon together, and add 
to sugar butter and vgg mixture, then add: 
L* cups rolled oatmeal, put 1 cup shredded raisins 

through a grinder 1 cup chopped nuts 

1 cup shredded dates 

Mix thoroughly. Drop by teaspoonfuls on a greased 
pan, and bake rather slowly. 

Date Marguerites 
Take square wafers, crisp a little in the oven, then 

put a generous spoonful of stiff boiled Costings, to 
which has been added chopped nuts and dates, <>n each. 
Brown in oven or not as is liked. 

Date Nut Drops 

Mix % cup buttei with l 1 ^ 1 cup chopped nuts 

cups brown sugar '„ teaspoon each of cinnamon 

A pinch of salt and soda 

3 well beaten eggs 1 teaspoon cream of tartar 
-M; cups flour Lastly add J /2 cup hot water 
1% cups chopped dates Drop from a spoon 

MRS. R. H. POSTLETHWAITB, 
Coachella. Calif. 



DATE COOK BOOK 



Drop Cakes 

\Vz cups brown sugar 1 cup butter 

3 eggs, vrell beaten Vt cup milk 

1 cup dates cut in pieces A pinch of salt 

3 cups flour 1 cup English walnut meats 

1 teaspoonful cinnamon 1 teaspoonful soda 

Mix in the usual way, and drop from a spoon in small 
lumps. 

Fruit Cookies 

1 cup sugar 2 teaspoonfuls cream of tartar 

Vs cup butter 1 teaspoon soda, flour to roll 

1 cq,;j: [1 cup wheat flour, 1 of barley 

\-2 cup milk and \'j of rice may be used.] 

Filling 

1 cup cliopped dates V-> cup water 

% cup sugar I tablespoonful flour 

Mix flour and sugar first, then add other ingredients, 
and cook. Roll dough thin, cut, place a small portion 
of the filling on one cooky, placing another cooky on 
top. Press edges together. 

MRS. C. S. ROBINSON, 
Colorado Springs, Colo. 

Hermit Cookies, with Dates 

1 cup butter 3 eggs 

2 cups sugar 1 teaspoonful soda dissolved 
1 cup chopped dates and rai- in 2 tablespoonfuls sour 

sins mixed milk 

Add all kinds of spices to taste, and flour to roll. 
Cut out and bake. Will keep a long time. 

MRS. II. BROWN, 
Northfield, Vermont. 

Oatmeal Cakes 

1 cup rolled outs ] , teaspoonful salt 

V 2 cup flour ! i eup shortening 



►6 DATE COOK BOOK 



A level teaspoonfuls baking '_■ cup milk 

powder % cup chopped dates 

Mix flour, oats, baking powder and salt. Cut in 
shortening. Add milk, and mix, forming a soft dough. 
Lastly add chopped dates. Drop into greased muffin 
tins, and bake in a quick oven. 

MBS. L. J. FABIAN, 
Coaehella, Calif. 

Oatmeal Cookies 

I cup sugar 2 cups oatmeal 

'•_• eup butter 1 teaspoonful salt 

1 cup flour 2 small eggs or 1 large one 

2 teaspoonfuls baking powder 1 tablespoonful of water 
Biftod with Hour I .up chopped dates 

Drop from a spoon in small cakes. 

MBS. CO. MOSS, 
Coaehella, Calif. 

Oatmeal Drop Cakes 

I cup su! i teaspoonful cinnamon 

»4 cui> butter A little nutD 

':: CUp lard A little salt and cloves 

"2 cups of oat meal 
y% eup sour milk i' 1 . cups flour 

1 eup chopped dates 1 teaspoonful flour 

Mix and drop on a cooky sheet in small Lumps about 
ilu' size of ;m English walnut. Bake in a moderate 
oven. MBS. A. O. McDONALD, 

Jack 's Cabin, Colorado. 

Quick Nut and Date Roll 

:; eups flour \ \ cup milk 

5 teaspoons baking powder 1 tablespoon softened Criseo 

•'S teaspoon salt ' cup dates, cut 

':: cii]' Criseo ':: cup uut meats 

i egg well t * . ■ : j t « • 1 1 l! tablespoons sugar 

1 teaspoon cinnamon if desired 



DATE COOK BOOK 57 

Sift together dry ingredients twice, then work in 
the Crisco. Add part of the milk to the egg, and use 
in mixing the dry ingredients to a dough. Use more 
of the milk as is required. Turn the dough on a floured 
board, knead a little and roll into a rectangular 
sheet Ys inch thick, spread with softened Crisco, 
sprinkle over the other ingredients and roll compactly 
as in a jelly roll. Cut in pieces iy 2 inches long, set 
on end close together in a pan, and bake twenty 

minutes. JANET McKENZIE HILL. 

Rich Date Cookies 

1 cup sugar % pound walnuts, chopped 

1 cup butter 2 cups flour, and 1 teaspoon 

2 eggs soda sifted with it 
1 pound dates, cut up 

Drop in small balls three inches apart on greased 

cooky tins. 

MRS. H. T. FOTHERGILL, 

Coachella, Calif. 

War Cakes 

1 cup molasses V-> teaspoon cloves 

1% teaspoons soda % teaspoon nutmeg 

1 cup sour milk 2 cups flour 

V2 eup shortening, melted 1 teaspoon salt 

1 teaspoon cinnamon 1 eup dates, cut in pieces 

Add soda to molasses and beat thoroughly, add milk, 

shortening, spice, salt and sifted flour and dates. 

Drop from a teaspoon from on a buttered sheet, and 

bake in a moderate oven. 

MRS. C. O. MOSS, 

Coachella, Calif. 



Frostings and Fillings for Cake 



Boiled Frosting 

One and one-quarter cups sugar and ^ CU P not 
water boiled together till it spins a thread. Let cool 
a minute or two, and pour slowly over th< i well beaten 
whites of 2 eggs, beating .-ill the while. Flavor. Stir 
in chopped dates and nuts mixed. 

MRS. A. G. PROCTOB, 
. I alif. 

Date Icing 
2 .-up- sugai '•_. cup water 

Le1 stand until it dissolves. Boil slowly withoul 
stirring until it threads from the spoon. 

Beat whites of eggs to a stiff froth. When syrup is 
slightly cool, stir in gradually, and beat until cold. 
Flavor to taste, and add chopped dates. 

MBS. T. M. MILLEB, 
Loa A.ngeles, Calif. 

Date Filling 

I - pound dates, weighed after 1 r . eup boiling water 

stoning 1 tablespoonful lemon juice 

I I cup Bugar 

.Mix ingredients, and cook in a double boiler until 
tliick enough to spread. Dates should be put through 
a meat chopper. 

One cup means V£ pint. Cup, tablespoon ore! teaspoon ;»!' 

mean level measurements. 



DATE COOK BOOK 59 

Date Orange Curd 

Juice and grated rind of 1 1 tablespoonful lemon juice 

orange M cup sugar 

'i cup butter Yolks of 2 eggs well beaten 

Mix thoroughly, put in a double boiler over hot 
water. Stir till like thick custard. 

One-half cup of finely chopped dates stirred in. 
Orange Icing 

Grated rind of 1 orange Thicken with powdered sugar 

2 tablespoons orange juice 

MRS. J. G. NUSBAUM, 
Coachella, Calif. 



El SALADS h 



"To make a perfect Balad there should be a spendthrift for 
oil, a miser for vinegar, a wise man for Bait and a mad cap 

to stir the ingredients up and mix them well together." 

— Spanish Proverb. 



Arabian Salad 
Take the heart of a date palm, and cut it in small 
pieces. Add to it 1 cup dates, stoned and cut in quar- 
ters. Mix with mayonnaise, and serve on lettuce' Leaves. 
(The heart of the palm is considered a great deli- 
cacy among the Arabs.) mks. c. O. moss, 

ichella, Calif. 

Banana Salad 

Peel as many chilled bananas as there are persons to 
be served. Split lengthwise, and put the halves to- 
gether with a tilling of dates, English walnuts, and 
pics, rved ginger, chopped tine and moistened with 
lemon juice. 

Arrange on individual salad plates. 

Garnish with lemon and water cress. 

S,rve with whipped cream mayonnaise. 

Ginger may he omitted. 

MPs. V. E. METZLEE. 

Cherry Salad 
Use large white canned cherries. Remove pits, mid 
slip into each cherry a small piece of nut. 

One cup moans % pint. Cup, tablespoon and teaspoon all 
mean lewd measurements. 



__ DATE COO K BOOK 61 

Pack in a dish and cover with the juice from the cher- 
ries, and let stand in a cool place until ready to serve. 
Serve five or six cherries and two or three dates cut 
in halves on lettuce. Cover with salad dressing. 

MRS. A. TAYLOR, 

Crested Butte, Colorado 

Date Salad 
Use the very large, soft, fresh dates. Remove stones, 
cut in half and place on lettuce leaves. Fill cavities 
with a mayonnaise salad dressing to which has "been 
added a little whipped cream. 

Date and Apple Salad 
Equal parts of semi dry dates and good eating 
apples. Cut in pieces, and mix with salad dressing. 
Put on lettuce leaves. MRS. C. W. HYDE, 

Coaehella, Calif. 

Date and Celery Salad 

] cup celery cut in pieces \-- cup walnut meats 

l -j cup chopped dates 

Mix and serve on lettuce leaves with mayonnaise or 

cream dressing. MRS.^C. DIEL, 

Crested Butte, Colorado 

Date and Cheese Salad 
Remove stones from dates, and fill cavities with 
Neufchatel cheese. Arrange on lettuce leaves, and 
pour over French dressing, 

MBS. C. O. MOSS, 
Coaehella, Calif. 

Date and Fig Salad 
Use large fresh dates and fresh figs, slice, arrange 



<52 DATE COOK BOOK 



on lettuce leaves, and serve with either cream or French 
dressing. MBS. T. M. MILLEB. 

Los Angeles. 

Peach Salad 
( fee either ripe or canned peaches. Remove the stone, 
and fill cavity with a ball of cottage cheese. On the 
top of each ball place a half date. Pour a salad dress- 
ing about, and serve on lettuce leaves. 

Fruit Salad 
3 iipjtlos l* bananas 

2 01:11: 1 -.-ant cup dates 

1 small ran pineapple 

Walnut meats and marshmallows may be added, and 

cut nil in not too small pieces. 

Beap on lettuce Leaves, and, just before serving, add 
a good creamy salad dressing. 

MRS. B. A. TEAGLE, 
I loachella, ( lalif. 

A Mixed Salad 
l cup atoned dates do not 1 eup dieed apples 

cup up I 1 eup mayonnaise 

'.••, eup grated cheese :; tablespoons nut meats 

i eup celery 1 head of lettuce 

Mix ingredients with mayonnaise, and arrange on 
lettuce leaves. mbs. r. n. postlethwaite, 

Coachella, Calif. 

Mixed Fruit Salad 
1 package of Jiffy Jell *4 eup chopped <lates 

1 eup chopped nuts 1 individual bottle oi Welch's 

1 small can pineapple or Armour's grape juice 

Dissolve Jiffy Jell in grape juice, and add enough 
pineapple juice to make one pint. Pick pineapple 
apart, and put in small moulds with chopped mixture. 



DATE COOK BOOK 



Pour liquid over, and put ou ice to chill. When cool 
place on lettuce leaves, and serve with boiled mayon- 
naise or whipped cream. 

MRS. A. O. HAYWARD, 

Thermal, Calif. 

Pineapple, Date and Cheese Salad 
Place lettuce on salad plates, then a. slice of pineapple. 
Seed some dates, and cut crosswise, laying them over 
the pineapple. Next put Neufchatel cheese over dates, 
then a good creamy salad dressing. 

MRS. E. WINTERER, 
Hollywood, Calif. 

Peanut Salad 

1 cupful thinly sliced apple *£ cupful chopped roasted pea- 

1 cupful chopped celery nuts 

V-2 cupful chopped dates Lettuce Mayonnaise 

Salad de Luxe 

Use marshmallows, dates, apple, nuts, and green 
grapes. 

Cut marshmallows in four pieces, seed dates and cut 
in pieces, apples cut up, and grapes seeded. 

Have equal parts of each, and mix with a fruit salad 
dressing. Place on lettuce leaves, and put dressing 

011 top. MRS. E. WINTERER, 

Hollywood, Calif. 



SALAD DRESSINGS 



Cream Dressing 

1 teaspoonful salt % cup melted butter 
', teaspoonful unmixed mus- % cup vinegar 

tard 2 teaspoonfuls Lemon juice 

2 teaspoonfuls Bugar A few grains of red pepper 
folks of I eggs 

Mix wel] in the order given, and cook in a double 
boiler until it begins to thicken, stirring continually. 
Jusl before using, add l cup sweet whipped cream. 

MBS. M. A. LA WHENCE, 
Gunnison, Colorado. 

Delicious Salad Dressing 

Our cup boiling water, ' t cup vinegar and Lemon 
juice mixed. When tins boils, stir in 2 tablespoons 
flour rubbed t«> a paste with 2 tablespoonfuls olive oil. 
st if and cook for ."> minutes. Remove from the stove, 
pour over the well beaten yolks of 2 o«^s, stir and 
mix thoroughly, then put away to cool, stirring occa- 
sionally. When cool hut not cold, add ' L > cup olive oil, 
;• little at a time. 

If olive oil is not liked, melted butter may be sub- 
stituted. When using, whipped cream may be added. 
For fruit salad add a little sugar. 

French Salad Dressing- 
Mix -'.■; teaspoonful »:ilt 5 tablespoons olive <>il 
' s teaspoon pepper 2% tablespoons vinegar 

When usino for a cheese salad, add a few drops of 

One cup means 1-2 pint. Cup, taMespoon and teaspoon all 
mean level measurements. 



DATE COOK BOOK 05 

onion juice. Beat all together until ingredients are 
thoroughly blended. 

Mayonnaise Dressing 
Put the yolks of 2 eggs in a bowl, and beat. 
Add % teaspoonful salt, and add gradually, drop 
by drop, 1 gill olive oil, a few drops of vinegar, and 
continue adding the oil until you have the desired 
quantity of mayonnaise. Beat in a few grains of red 
pepper. Allow about 1 tablespoonful of vinegar to 1 
gill of oil. If a lighter color is desired, allow a few 
drops of lemon juice. MRS. S. T. RORER, 

Sweet Salad Dressing- 
Yolks of 2 eggs Beat well, add % cup vinegar 
U cup sugar 

Cook in double boiler, and when using, odd cream. 

either whipped or unwhipped. 

MRS. R. M. CLARK, 
Los Angeles, Calif. 



SANDWICHES 



"Fame is at best an unperforming cheat, 
'tis substantial happiness to eat." 

Date, Fig- and Nut Sandwiches 
'_. cnp dat >s i , cap almonds 

i& cnp Cream t<> moisten 

Put fruit and nuts through a meal grinder, moisten 
with cream, so mixture will spread nicely, and spread 
between thin slices of bread. 

MRS. p. \v. ZABLER, 
Coachella, Calif. 

Date and Nut Sandwiches 
Use equal parts of dates and English walnuts put 
through a grinder, and spread between thin slices of 
bread slightly buttered. May be cut in any fancy 
shape • MRS. E. P. WILLIAMS, 

Coachella, Calif. 

Fruit Filling 
Pigs, raisins, dates. Remove the stems and stones. 
Chop fine: add a little cold water and cook to a paste. 
Add a few drops of lemon juice. 

LADIES' SOME JOURNAL. 

Nut and Fruit Cheese Sandwiches 
This may be served in the same manner as cold meat 
for either Luncheon or supper. 



One cup means 1-2 pint. Cup. tablespoon and teaspoon al 

mean level measurements. 



DATE COOK BOOK 07 

Wash x -j pound pitted prunes, mix with \ ■[> pound 
seeded raisins, u pound stoned dales and "•- pound of 
washed figs, ] \ pound blanched almonds, y 4 pound of 
Brazil nuts and */4 pound pecan nuts. Put all through 
a meat chopper, first a little of the fruit, then a few 
nuts. Continue this till all of the fruit and nuts are 
chopped and mixed. Add the juice of 2 oranges, and 
knead with the hands. Pack down in l>akini> powder 
cans, and stand aside in a cool place. 

When wanted for use. set the can in a pan of hot 
water, loosen sides and pull out. Slice thin. 

MRS. V. E. METZLER, 
Coachella, Calif. 

Orange Marmalade and Chopped Dates 
make a good filling for a sweet sandwich. 

Peanut Butter Sandwiches 
Grind dates, and put with equal part of peanut but- 
ter, mix well, and spread between slices of slightly but- 
tered bread. Miss MARGARET GREEN, 

1 Coachella, Calif, 



PRESERVES and JAMS 



' Fruit, unripe, sticks on the tree, 

But full unshaken when they mellow be." 



Cranberry Relish 
2 quarts of cranberries Rind of 2 oranges, chopped 

3% pounds of white BUgai fine 

'- pound Beeded rai tins 1 cup \ Ini 

\-2 pound dates Juice of '■! oranges 

One teaspoonful each of ginger, cloves and cinna- 
mon. Cook' all to a marmalade, and put in jars. 

Nice with cold meats, as chicken, etc. 

Dates as a Sauce 
Stone large soft dates, put in sauce dishes and pour 
Bweet cream over them. MBS. B. M, CLARK, 

Los A ngcl< 3, I lalif. 

Date Butter 
I quarl dates Sugar t « • taste 

I pint tart apples 

Stone dates, pare and core apples. Boil together till 
soft; then mash through a colander. Add sugar and 
boil till thickness of apple butter. 

MRS. S. HUGHS, 
Coachella, Calif. 

Dessert Jam 
Wash roselle buds, co\*cr with water and let hoil 
gently until juice is extracted. Pour into a jelly bag 
and let drip. Measure juice, and, to each pint, add 
nearly a pound of sugar. Boil until it just begins to 
jell, then add cu1 up dates and almonds, which hav< 

One cup moans J -_- pint. Cup, tablespoon and teaspoon all 
mean level measurements. 



DATE COOK BOOK 69 

been blanched and cut up coarsely. Cook just long 
enough to bring to a boil again, then pour in glasses 
and seal like jelly. mrs. v. E. metzler, 

Coachella, Calif. 

Jam 

A nice jam may be made with two parts dates to 
one part cranberries. Cook and mash fruit, add sugar 
to taste and boil to desired thickness. 

MRS. HAZZARD. 

Peach Conserve 

2 quarts of fresh sliced V 2 cup sliced dates 
peaches 1 cup of either Eng. walnuts 

3 oranges, sliced thin after re- or blanched almonds 

moving skins Sugar to preserve 

V-2, cup seeded raisins 

Cut nuts and put in after it is ready for jars. 
Cook slowly until it is very clear. 

MRS. E. WINTERER, 

Hollywood, Calif. 

Primes and Dates 
Stew prunes till soft, add just a little sugar. 
Before taking from the fire, add some dates stoned 
and cut in half. Serve with cream. 

MRS. A. O. II AY WARD, 

Thermal, Calif. 

Stewed Dates 
(A good sauce for "Dainty Sponge Fruit Pudding.") 
1 cup cold water Juice and thinly cut rind of 

V\ pound of dates % lemon 

1 tablespoonful of sugar 

Allow to simmer very gently for y 2 hour. Remove 
dates to a dish, and pour the syrup over them, and 
allow to cool. MRS. II. T. FOTHERGILL, 

Coachella, Calif. 



70 DATE COOK BOOK 

Tutti-Frutti Preserves 

Wash 4 quarts purple plums. Put in a large sauce 
pan and cover with water. Cook slowly until the plums 
have softened, and separated from the stone. Remove 
Prom the lire, and remove all stones. Add to the plums 
equal measure of brown sugar, and cook slowly until 
a thick preserve is made When marly done, put in 
1 pound of seeded raisins, 1 pound of dried figs cut in 
small pieces j - pound of dates cut in pieces. Stir often, 
and, when done, try as you would for jelly. 

Lastly, put in V 2 pound of chopped pecans. Seal in 
jars. MBS. A. L. MEADE, 

Colorado Springs, Colo. 



MISCELLANEOUS 



'The turnpike road to people's hearts, I find, 
Lies through their mouths, or I mistake mankind." 

Dr. Wolcot. 



A Good Laxative 

Put through a food chopper twice 
y-2 pound seeded raisins % pound of figs 

'•_• pound of dates *4 pound senna leaves picked 

x /z pound of prunes over 

After grinding, roll out on bread board % or y 2 
inch thick, and cut into inch squares. Keep in a jar. 
Dose — 1 square at bed time. 

MRS. M. McLEISH, 

Riverside, Calif. 

Dates in Cereal 
Cut dates, and cook with any kind of cereal. 
This makes the cereal sweet enough so the use of 
sugar is not necessary. MRS. A. G. proctor, 

Coaehella, Calif. 

Dates with Cereal 
Dates chopped, or cut coarsely in a meat grinder, 
and sprinkled, uncooked, on hot oatmeal or other break- 
fast cereal to be served with honey and cream, make 
a delicious dish. MRS. c. E. COOK, 

Indio, Calif. 

Dates with Rice 
Wash 1 cup of rice through several waters, drain, 
and sprinkle into 2 quarts of boiling water. Let boil 

One cup means % pint. Cup, tablespoon and teaspoon all 
mean level measurements. 



DATE COOK BOOK 



twenty minutes, then pour into a sieve, and allow cold 
water to run through the rice to harden it, drain, salt, 
and place in the oven or on back of the stove in a dish 
covered with cheese cloth, until grains arc dry and 
flaky. Cover with ground or chopped dates just be- 
fore taking to the table. MBS. 0. E. COOK, 

Indio, Calif. 

English Chutney Sauce 

l pound of apples 6 small onions 

4< pound raisins 1 ounce of white mustard 

*/£ pound dates Beed 

1 dozen ripe tomatoes (canned 1% quarts vinegar, boiled and 

ones may be used) cooled (do not have too 

2 red peppers strong) 

', cup mint leaves (fresh or 1 pound of granulated sugar 
dried) 

It requires no cooking. Put every tiling through the 
meat grinder. Salt and sugar heated with the vine- 
gar, and lei coo) before pouring over rest of in- 
gredients. 

Pour all in a crock or jar, and let stand ten days, 
stirring each day, then it can be bottled. Nice with 

meats. MBS. B. 8. LOG \X. 

Denver, Colo. 

Mu'asal of the Persian Gulf 
(One of the best preserves of that region.) 

Remove the seeds from the dates and replace with 
walnut meats. Boil down some date syrup (any other 
good syrup would do), add sesame seed to taste, and 
a little rose water for aroma; boil until thick, add 
dates, put over the fire, and let it come to a boil again : 
then put into glass jars. 



DATE TOOK HOOK 73 

Pickled Dates 
Dates may be pickled in vinegar just before they 
are ripe, when they much resemble pickled walnuts. 

Sweet Potatoes and Dates 

1 enp dates cut in quarters V2 cup cream 

2 cups mashed sweet potatoes A little salt and cinnamon 
(boiled in skin till done) 2 eggs well beaten 

Mix, folding eggs in last. Drop heaping tablespoons 
on pie pans, well greased, and bake one-half hour, or 
till blown. MRS. B. A. TEAGLE, 

Coaehella, Calif. 

Syrian Method of Preserving Dates 
Take the largest dates obtainable, preferably before 
they are entirely ripe; peel them with a sharp knife, 
put them in a pot, add a little more than enough water 
than to cover them, boil until they are soft; then slip 
the seeds out and put an almond or pistachio, with a 
clove, in the cavity; boil dates in syrup with a little 
lemon peel until the proper consistency; take them off 
the fire and let them stand over night ; then bring to a 
boil again and put in glass jars. 

Tamarind Chutney 

2 pounds of dates 1 pound onion 

V2 pound of green ginger root Vi pound chillies 

1 pound of layer raisins V\ pound brown sugar 

2 tablespoons of salt V» pint vinegar 

A 14 pound jar or bottle of tamarinds 

Remove stones from tamarinds, chop fine, the same 
with dates; stone and cut the raisins into quarters; 
chop fine the onion; pound the chillies and scrape and 
slice the ginger. 

Mix nil the ingredients together, bottle and seal. 



E3 INDEX EI 



Pages 

Breads, Muffins, Waffles, Etc. - - - 9-14 

Cake 42-50 

Cookies and Small Cakes - 51-57 

Cold Desserts 25-31 

Confections ...... 32-37 

Frostings and Fillings - 58-59 

Miscellaneous 71-73 

Pies and Tarts ------ 38-41 

Preserves and Jams - - - - - 68-70 

Puddings 15-22 

Pudding Sauces ------ 23-24 

Salads ....... 60-63 

Salad Dressings 64-65 

Sandwiches - - 66-67 



Press of 
Coaohella Valley Submarine 

Coachella, California 



LIBRARY OF CONGRESS 



1 



014 524 475 4 



ATE 

Cook 
Book 



COACHELLA VALLEY 

"RIVERSIDE COUNH, CALIFORNIA 




Digitized by the Internet Archive 

in 2006 with funding from 

IVIicrosoft Corporation 



http://www.archive.org/details/datecookbookOOmetzrich 



DATE 
COOK BOOK 



Compiled by 



MAY SOWLES METZLER 



*'We may live without poetry, music, and art; 
We may live without conscience, and live without 
heart; 

We may live without friends; we may live without 

books; 
But civilized man cannot live without cooks." 

— Owen Merridith. 



rxsi3 

PREFACE 2)j/\/)i^S 



AGRia 

UBRARV 

It has been quite fitting that a date cook 
book should originate in Coachella Valley, the 
American home of the date. 

I feel that the time is not far distant 
when dates will be used universally both in 
the fresh state and in various modes of cook- 
ery. 

In its use sugar is conserved, as will be 
seen in the following number of recipes which 
need no sugar, and by others which require 
a smaller amount than has before been used. 

Although the compilation contains many 
of the so called ''fancy dishes,'' a still larger 
number of simple and wholesome rules may 
be found in its pages. 

Dates are a product which perhaps lend 
themselves to a greater variety of uses than 
any other one article of food, and, conse- 
quently, I trust a book devoted exclusively 
to their service will find favor with all those 
who desire a more extended acquaintance 
with this most delicious fruit. M. S. M. 



Copyright, 1919 
May Sowles Metzler 



444208 



FOOD VALUE OF THE DATE 

In the arid regions of the old world dates 
alwaj'S have been an essential in the dietry, and 
in some parts have been used even to a greater 
extent than bread and potatoes here. 

Owing to its compact form and almost total 
availability as food the date is a natural tabloid 
form of nourishment, and some kinds even out- 
strip the much vaunted pre-digested foods 
These latter dates contain sugar in a form im- 
mediately available by the body through simple 
absorption without being subjected to the diges- 
tion that ordinary sugar undergoes. 

Dates are at oncean enjoyable confection and 
a substantial energy producer. They really 
contain all the elements that a balanced diet 
calls for, protein, fats, salts and carbohydrates 
and all in available form for the human system 

One pound of dates has a calorie value of 
1,275, a calorie being the physiological heat unit 
or unit of potential. 

CHARLES BENNETT, M. D. 



SOME OF THE WAYS DATES ARE USED 
BY THE ARABS 



Split date, remove seed and then fill cavity with un- 
salted butter. This manner of eating the date has 
been popular throughout the Arabic world for cen- 
turies. 

Another popular combination, and used by the mis- 
sionaries as well as the Arabs, is called khabis, and is 
a mixture of dates, butter and honey. 

Sour or curdled milk in various forms is a constant 
accompaniment of dates. It may be from this that we 
got our idea of the use of cottage cheese with dates. 

Fresh milk, especially that of camels, is considered 
a particularly fitting drink after a meal of dates. 

In the Sindh desert of India, onions are considered 
the proper accompaniment. 

In districts where locusts or grasshoppers are ob- 
tainable, these insects are roasted and pounded to a 
paste, together with fresh dates. 

Madquqeh, a date paste, made by pounding dates 
with sesame oil, is used on their tasteless bread. 

Dates are also used C09ked, the best being a plain 
fry in plenty of butter ; the date for this purpose should 



' >**' "-** * ' ^t I ' '' 

be soft, and great care is needed to keep them from 
burning; but if properly prepared, they rarely fail to 
please the American palate. 

Fresh dates are baked in the oven, sometimes basted 
v/ith butter. 

Another standard Arab recipe is to chop up the dates, 
and boil them in milk often with the addition of 
chopped onions and a flour thickening. 

There are also many ways in which dates are used 
as beverages, and in the making of jams and preserves. 

In the Sahara dates are added to meats, soups and 
stews. Are used to make syrup which sells for ten 
cents a quart. 

Seeds are used in cookery after being softened with 
milk, and are also made into bread. 

PAUL B. POPENOE. 




El BREAD Q 



Biscuits, Muffins, Rolls, Gems, Etc. 



*' Would you know how first he met her? 
She was cutting bread and butter.'* 

— Goethe. 



Bran Bread 

1 cup white flour % cup shortening, melted 

1 cup wholewheat flour 1 egg beaten light 

1\^ cups bran 1^ cups milk 

\'2 cup molasses mix with i/^ 6 teaspoonfuls baking powder 
teaspoon soda 1 large cup dates, with seeds 

1 teaspoonful salt removed 

Mix all together, put iu small bread pan and bake 
about 11/4 hours. 

MES. B. A. TEAGLE, 

Coachella, Cal. 

Corn Bread 

1 cup cornmeal % teaspoon salt 

1 cup white flour Scant cup milk 
4 teaspoons baking powder 2 eggs 

2 tablespoons sugar ^4 cup melted butter or any 
^ cup chopped dates kind of shortening 

Mix and sift dry ingredients. Add milk slowly, egg 
well beaten, and butter. Lastly add dates, and bake 
in a greased shallow pan in a quick oven. 

Date Bread 

2 cups chopped dates 1 egg 

4 cups flour % cup sugar 

One cup means V2 pint. Cup, tablespoon and teaspoon all 
mean level measurements. 



10 DATE COOK BOOK 



2 cups milk 4 teaspoons baking powder 
1 teaspoon salt 

Sift dry ingredients, add egg well beaten, dates and 
milk. Mix well together, let stand twenty-five or thirty 
minutes and bake in a moderate oven for forty-five 
minutes. 

MRS. PEARL HAWKINS, 

Taft, Cal. 

Date Bread (with yeast) 

1 cup warm left-over cereal 2 tablespoons shortening 

3 tablespoons brown sugar % cake yeast or a small 
A little salt amount liquid yeast 

Flour ^ cup warm water 

Mix cereal, sugar, salt and shortening, add yeast cake 
dissolved in the warm water, and flour to knead. Let 
rise over night. In the morning when kneading, work 
in yo cup English walnut meats and Vs cup of dates both 
cut in small pieces. Shape in a loaf, let rise, and bake 
in a moderate oven. This bread is very good for sand- 
wiches. 

Steamed Brown Bread 

2 cups yellow corn meal 1 cup very dark molasses 
1 cup rye or Graham flour I14 pints warm water 

1 teaspoonful salt 1 cup raisins 

1 teaspoonful soda 1 cup dates, chopped 

Put in a greased mould, and steam two or three 
hours, either on stove or in fireless cooker. 

MRS. A. O. HAYWARD, 

Thermal, Cal. 

Steamed Date Bread 

Into a bowl put l^-j cups corn- 2 cups dates which have been 

meal steamed and rubbed througli 

1 cup rye meal a sieve 

% cup flour 1 teaspoon salt 

1 teaspoonful baking powder 1 teaspoon soda 

1 cup each milk and water % cup syrup 



DATE COOK BOOK 11 

Pour into a large well greased mould, cover and 
steam 5 hours. May be cooked in a fireless cooker, or 
if steamed in smaller moulds, will not require as long a 
steaming. 

MRS. A. A. ALLEN, 

Coachella, CaL 

Steamed Date Bread No. 2 

1 cup rye meal 2 cups thick sour milk 

1 cup corn meal % cup molasses 

1 cup barley flour 1 cup dates 

2 teaspoons soda 2 tablespoons melted Crisco 
1 tablespoon salt 

Sift together the meal, flour, soda and salt ; add sour 
milk, molasses and Crisco, and mix thoroughly. Grease 
three 1-lb. baking powder cans; put in some dates cut 
in pieces, then dough; add more pieces of dates, then 
dough, and alternate with dates and dough till all are 
used. Set to steam with cold water, that the mixture 
may rise before cooking Steam three hours The 
water must not stop boiling for at least two hours 

JANET McKENZIE HILL. 

Sweet Date Bread 

% cup shortening 1 teaspoonful of soda dis- 

M» cup sugar solved in a little of the 

V2 cup molasses milk 

1 cup sour milk or buttermilk 1 cup white flour 

2 eggs 3^2 cups Graham flour 

1 pound of dates, cut in 
thirds 

Spices to taste. Bake in a loaf. 

MRS. C. R. KETTLE, 
Coachella, Cal. 

White Date Loaf 

3 cups flour 1 teaspoonful salt 

3 cups chopped dates 3 tablespoons baking powder 

1 cup chopped nuts 1 tablespoon shortening 

2 cups milk 



12 DATE COOK BOOK 

Mix Avell, put in a bread pan and bake 1 hour. 

MRS. A. O. HAY WARD, 

Thermal, Cal. 

Biscuits 
Put 2 cups flour in a pan, and work into it % cup 
shortening, 1 teaspoonful salt, 5 tcaspoonfuis baking 
powder, and i/o cup cut dates. Wet with 1 cup rich 
sweet milk, and if more flour is needed, add until just 
stiff enough to handle. Roll to the usual thickness, and 
bake in a quick oven. 

Buns 

1 cup scalded milk % teaspoon salt 

% cup butter i/^ cup dates stoned and cut 

% cup sugar in pieces 

1 yeast cake dissolved in l^ 1 teaspoon lemon extract 
cup hike warm water Flour 

Add y2 cup sugar and salt to milk; when lukewarm 
add dissolved yeast cake and V/^ cups flour; cover, and 
let rise until light; add butter, remaining sugar, dates 
lemon and flour to make a dough ; let rise, shape like 
biscuits, let rise again and bake. If wanted glazed, 
brush over with l)eaten egg before baking. 

MRS. F. M. FARMER. 

Date Bran Muffins 

2 cups bran 3 tablespoons molasses 

1 cup flour IVj to iy2 cups sour milk 

1 teaspoon soda 1 cup chopped dates 

14 cup butter 

Mix dry ingredients, rub in the butter Avith the tips 
of fingers, add molasses and sour milk and the chopped 
dates first rolled in flour. Put into hot muffin tins, and 
bake in hot oven. 1 unbeaten egg stii-red in thoroughly 
at the last improves it greatly. Sweet milk may be 
used, with 3 teaspoons baking powdei', instead of sour 
milk. MRS. E. E. COOK, 

Indio. Oal. 



DATE COOK BOOK 13 

Date Muffins 

% cup butter or crisco % cup of milk 

% cup sugar 2 cups flour 

1 eggf well beaten 4 teaspoons baking powder 
\<i cup dates cut into bits 

Add dates last, and beat well. Put in well greased 
muffin pans, and bake twenty-five minutes. 

MES. J. G. NUSBAUM, 

Coaehella, Cal. 

Date Muffins No. 2 

2 tablespoons shortening 3 teaspoons baking powder 
2 tablespoons sugar 1 teaspoon salt 

1 cup milk 1/2 pound dates 

1% cups flour 

Melt shortening and add sugar. Beat until well 
mixed. Add milk and flour, baking powder and salt 
which have been sifted together. Add dates which 
have been pitted and cut fine. Bake in greased tins in 
hot oven about twenty-five minutes. 

MES. T. M. MILLEB, 

Fruit Corn Muffins 

IVi! cups yellow eornmeal 1 tablespoon shortening 

% cup white flour 2 eggs (1 may be used when 

1 teaspoon salt scarce) 

2 teaspoons baking powder 2 cups sour milk 

1 cup semi-dry dates, cut fine 

Pans must be well heated, and greased with 1 table- 
spoon shortening. Bake in muffin pans in a hot oven 
for twentv minutes. 

MRS. C. W. HYDE, 

Goachella, Cal. 

Economy Griddle Cakes 

1% cups sour milk or buttermilk; thin with y^ cup 

sweet milk, and stir in 1/2 teaspoon soda, 1 teaspoon 

salt, 1 egg well beaten, 1 cup fine bread crumbs, which 

have been put through the sifter, y^ cup eornmeal and 



14 DATE COOK BOOK 



enough flour to make the right thickness for cooking on 
a griddle in the usual way. Lastly add a few ground 
dates. M. S. METZLER. 

Waffles 

1% cups thick sour milk About 2 cups flour (just white 

V2 cup sweet milk flour may be used or it may 

3 tablespoons shortening, or be mixed with any other 

thick sour cream kind, such as Graham) 

% teaspoons soda 2 eggs beaten separately 

1 teaspoon salt 1 teaspoon baking powder 

% cup ground dates 
Sift flour, salt and baking powder in a bowl, add milk 
in which soda has been dissolved, yolk of egg, shorten- 
ing, dates and egg whites. Cook in hot well greased 
waffle irons. Serve with butter and syrup. 

MRS. V. E. METZLER, 

Coachella, Cal. 

Southern Waffles 

1% cups corn meal mush ^2 teaspoon salt 

1^2 cups milk 2 eggs 

% cup ground dates 3 tablespoons shortening 

3 teaspoons baking powder 3 cups flour 

Add milk to mush, then dry ingredients, mixed, yolks 
of eggs, shortening and w^hites of eggs beaten stiff. Cook 
in waffle irons. 

Schnecken 

1 pound of bread dough, add 2 eggs, y^ cup butter. 
Mix well and add flour to stiffen. Roll thin, and spread 
Avith melted butter, cinnamon, currants, chopped dates, 
sugar and a little citron. Roll, cut and place in a bak- 
ing pan. Let rise till very light, then put a small piece 
of butter on each, and sprinkle with a little powdered 
sugar. Just before putting in the oven, pour a very 
little boiling water about the cakes. Bake in a mod- 
erate oven in a well greased pan. 

MRS. J. A. LEHRITTER, 

Gunnison, Colo. 



H PUDDINGS H 



**One thing is always sure to please, 
Just give him puddings such as these." 



Apple Pudding 
Wash and soak y^ pound dried apples (fresh ones 
may be used). Stone i/4 pound of dates and cut each 
one in thirds. Put fruit in saucepan Avith 1 tablespoon 
of butter, half a cup of brown sugar and 1 teaspoon 
ground cinnamon. Stew slowly till tender. Turn out 
to cool. Sift 14 pound of flour into a basin, cut into it 
4 tablespoons butter, add 2 tablespoons sugar, 1 tea- 
spoonful baking powder and II/2 teaspoonfuls ground 
cinnamon. Make into a stiff paste with the beaten 
yolk of 1 Qgg and a little milk. Divide into one large 
and one small piece. EoU out and line a pudding dish 
with large piece of dough, put in fruit and cover with 
small piece of dough. Bake in a moderate oven for 
three-quarters of an hour. Cool and cover with 

meringue. MRS. M. McLElSH, 

Riverside, Cal. 

Bird's Nest Pudding (no sugar) 

Put 1 cup seeded dates in the bottom of a baking dish 

2 eggs beaten separately 

V2 Clip milk 

1 cup flour with which sift 2 teaspoons baking powder 

1 tablespoon melted butter 

V-i teaspoon salt 

1 cup flour 

Pour batter over dates and bake. Serve with cream 

MISS ALBERTA METZLER. 

One cup means V2 pint. Cup, tablespoon and teaspoon all 
mean level measurements. 



16 DATE COOK BOOK 



Boiled Rice and Date Pudding 

1 cup rice 2 cups sugar 

2 quarts hot water 2 cups water 

1 tablespoon salt 1 cup cut dates 

AVasli rice and add slowlj^ to 2 quarts boiling water 
to which has been added 1 tablespoon salt. Boil about 
thirty minutes, or until soft. Drain in a coarse strainer 
pour through it some hot water, and let stand in a warm 
place to dry off. Mix stoned and cut dates Avith rice 
and mould. Serve with a syrup made from the 2 cups 
sugar and 2 cups water. This amount will make a 
large pudding. MRS. F. W. ZABLER, 

Coachella, Cal. 

Bread Pudding (no sugar) 

2 heaping cups stale or fresh 1 egg, beaten 
bread, cut in dice 1 teaspoon vanilla 

1 heaping cup dates (^/^ lb.) 2 teaspoons baking powder 

IV2 cups thin cream {% pint) % cup blanched almonds, cut 

or not as you please 

Mix well, and cook in a double boiler forty minutes. 

MRS. B. A. TEAGLE, 

Coachella, Cal. 

New Brown Betty (with dates) 

Grease a pudding dish, and put in it alternate layers 
of bread crumbs and tart apples and dates mixed. Make 
enough layers to nearly fill dish, having bread crumbs 
for first and last layers. Pour hot water on to moisten, 
f^^t with bits of butter and bake. Serve with cream and 
sugar or a good pudding sauce. 

Boiled Carrot Pudding 

1 pound of grated carrots V2 pound of either raisins or 

8/4 pound chopped suet currants 

V2 pound dates 8 tablespoons flour 

4 tablespoons sugar Spices to suit taste 

J^ut in a greased pudding bag, tie, allowing room to 



DATE COOK BOOK 17 

swell, and boil 4 hours; then put in oven for a few 
minutes to dry. Serve with ' ' Hard Sauce, ' ' or any good 
pudding sauce. 

Carrot Pudding 

1 eup grated raw potato 1 cup chopped dates 

1 cup grated raw carrot ll-> cups flour 

1 cup chopped suet H> cup sugar 

1 cup raisins 

1 teaspoon each of soda, salt and allspice; soda dissolved in 2 
tablespoons milk. 

Steam Sy? hours and serve with '^ Brown Sauce.*' 

MRS. L. H. KILLEY, 

Coachella, Cal. 

Chocolate Pudding 

1 cup bread crumbs boiled in 4 tablespoons melted chocolate 

1 quart milk % cup cut dates 

H cup sugar ^4 cup nuts 

Yolks of 2 eggs 

Bake till set, then use well beaten whites with a little 
sugar for frosting. Brown in oven. 

Date and Nut Pudding 

1 cup chopped dates 4 tablespoons cracker crumbs 

1 cup nut meats 3 tablespoons sweet milk 

1 cup sugar 1 teaspoon baking powder 

2 eggs 

Steam ly^ hours, either in one dish or individual 
moulds, and serve Avith whipped cream or ice cream. 

MRS. E. PALMER, 
Mecca, Cal. 

Date Pudding No. 1 

Vz pound of dates % teaspoon soda 

3 tablespoons butter ^^ teaspoon salt 

Mj cup of molasses ^^ teaspoon cloves 

V^ cup sweet milk i/4 teaspoon nutmeg 

]% cups flour 1/-2 teaspoon allspice 

Stone dates, and cut in small pieces. Melt butter 



18 DATE COOK BOOK 



add molasses and milk. Mix dry ingredients together 
and sift. Add to liqnid. Lastly stir in dates. Turn in 
a buttered mould, and steam ly^ hours. Serve with any 
good pudding sauce. MRS. G. J. shoenhair, 

Hollywood, Cal. 

Date Pudding No. 2 
]\Iix 2 cups bread crumbs, 1 cup flour and ly- cups 
chopped suet, 2 cups dates, cut in pieces, Vo cup sugar 
1/2 teaspoon salt, 4 teaspoons baking povrder. ^lix well 
and add 2 eggs beaten in % cup milk. Put into a well 
greased mould and steam three or more hours. ]\[ore 
steaming makes it darker and better. Serve hot with 
cream or sweet sauce. Makes a good Christmas pud- 
ding, or to serve at any time in place of plum pudding 

MRS. V. E. METZLER, 

Coaehella, Cal. 

Date Pudding No. 3 

1 cup molasses 4 teaspoons baking powder 

1 cup milk 1/4 teaspoon salt 

% cup butter Vi; teaspoon cloves 

3 cups flour (use part barley % teaspoon allspice 

flour) % teaspoon nutmeg 
% pound dates, cut in pieces 

Melt butter and add to molasses and millv. Sift to- 
gether the lioui', baking powder, salt and spices and add 
to milk and molasses. Add dates. Put in a buttered 
mould, and steam 2% hours. Serve with pudding sauce. 

MRS. T. M, MILLER, 

Date and Rice Dumplings (no sugar) 

Use smal] sqnares of cheesecloth. Place one at a 
time on a plate, and cover center Avith about % cup of 
previously boiled rice. On this put 1 tablespoon of cut 
up dates. Bring rice up around the dates, shape round 
in the cheesecloth, tie close to the rice and phmge in 



DATE COOK BOOK 2? 

boiling water for twenty minutes. Remove cloth, and 
serve with a little jelly on top and cream around it. A 
very nutritious dish. 

Bate Soufle 
1 cup stoned dates ground fine, Yi cup powdered sugar 
yolks of 3 eggs, beaten till light. Beat all together 
until very light, then fold in carefully the well beaten 
whites of 3 eggs. Turn into a baking dish, buttered 
and dusted with powdered sugar, and bake in a hot 
oven until well puffed and brown. Serve immediately. 

Fruit Suet Puddingy 
3 cups flour, level teaspoon salt, 2 teaspoons baking 
powder, 1 teacup finely chopped suet. Mix Avell to- 
gether and add water to make dough like pie crust 
Roll i/j-inch thick. Spread with chopped cooking 
apples and dates. Roll, and steam 3 hours. Serve with 
a sweet pudding sauce or cream and sugar. 

MRS. J. H. BLOCK, 

Denver, Colo. 

Hard Time Date Pudding 
Soak about 2 cups stale bread in hot water for half 
an hour, then squeeze the water from it through a 
strainer. Mix with it I/2 pound stoned and cup dates 
Grease a pie pan and put the above mixture in it, shap- 
ing nicely to the pan. Now take 1 egg, beat well, add 
Mi cup milk and 1 tablespoon sugar. Pour over the 
bread and dates, and add a little grated nutmeg on top 
Can be used hot or cold, with anv preferred sauce. 

MRS. k. T. FOTHERGILL, 
Coachella, Cal. 

Oatmeal Betty 

2 eups ("Ooked oatmeal y^ teaspoon cinuamoii 

4 eups apples cut small V-i cuj> syrup 



20 DATE COOK BOOK 



¥2 cup dates Vi cup sugar 

JMix and bake for onc-lialf hour. Serve v/itli cream 

Oatmeal Date Pudding (war-time recipe) 

2y2 ci^ps boiling water 1 cup rolled oats 

1 tablespoon crisco % cup maple syrup 
1/^ teaspoon salt 1 egg beaten light 

1 cup dates cut in small pieces 

Have Avater boiling rapidly. Stir in crisco, salt and 
oats, and continue to stir v/hile cooking rapidly 5 min- 
utes. Cook in double boiler 1 hour; add syrup, dates 
and beaten eggs, and bake in a baking dish about 
thirty minutes. JANET McKENZIE HILL. 

Quick Graham Pudding (no sugar) 
Boil 1 quart of water, add 1 tea:^poonful salt aud drop 
in slowly, stirring constantly enough Graham flour to 
make a moderately thick mush. Continue cooking and 
stirring occasionally for about half an hour. A few 
minutes before removing from the fire, add 1 cup stoned 
and cut-up dates. Serve hot with cream. 

Rice Pudding a la Hoover 

Wash 1 cup rice, drain and add to 2 cups hot water, 
14 teaspoon salt. Steam 45 minutes. Add 14, cup 
brown sugar, Yo package dates, cut, and 1 cup scalded 
milk, and steam 15 minutes longer. 

^'DELINEATOK." 

Rice Pudding (v/ithout sugar or eggs) 

6 tablespoons of rice 1 teaspoon salt 

2 quarts milk and 2 taldc- 1 cup dates, stoned and cut in 
spoons thick sweet cream small pieces 

Bake very slowly for three hours. Serve with cream. 
Makes a large pudding. 

MBS. J. W. KOCKEFELLER, 

Gunnison, Colo. 



DATE COOK BOOK ^ 

Roly-Poly Apple and Date Pudding 

Pare, core and slice cooking apples, and stone and 
halve a few dates. Make a rich biscuit dough. Roll out 
not quite half an inch thick, lay the fruit on the paste, 
bring edges together, wrap in a pudding cloth, which 
has been well floured, tie up and plunge into boiling 
water, and boil two hours. Serve with sweet sauce. In 
tving bag, leave room to svrell. 

MES. J. BENSON, 

Clifton, Colo. 

Seven Cup Pudding 

1 cup grated briad 1 cup flour 

1 cup sugar 1 cup chopped suet 

1 cup milk 1 teaspoon cinnamon 

1 cup currants or raisins V2 teaspoon soda 

1 cup dates 1 egg 

]\Iix all dry ingredients together, then add milk 
Steam two hours. Serve with ''Easily made pudding 
sauce." MRS. JAS. WILLIAMSON, 

Byrnfoot Hill, Ayrshire, Scotland. 

Simple Fruit Pudding 
Brat yolks of 2 eggs v. ith 14 cup sugar, until light 
add 1 tablespoonful softened butter and % cup milk. 
Sift together 1 cup flour, a little salt and 2 teaspoonfuls 
baking powder; stir this in, then fold in the well beaten 
whites, and 1 cup cut dates. Turn in individual cups 
and steam one hour. Serve with "Yellow Sauce" or 

"Chocolate Sauce." 

MRS. V. E. METZLER. 

Steamed Chocolate Pudding 

Beat the yolks of 3 eggs till lemon colored and thick 
Add gradually 14 cup sugar and continue the beating, 
add 3 tablespoons sweet milk and 1 cupful of flour and 
beat until smooth. Add i/^ cup chopped dates. Lastly 
add the well beeateii whites of those eggs and 2 tea- 



22 DATE COOK B OOK 

Spoonfuls baking powder. Turn into greased cups, fill- 
ing half full, and steam twenty minutes. Serve with a 
vanilla flavored pudding sauce. ''One Egg Sauce" 
would be good with this pudding. 

Steamed Date Pudding: (brought from Scotland) 

1,4 pound of bread crumbs ^^ teaspoon soda 

V4, pound flour 3,^ pound dates cut in small 

14 pound sugar pieces 

1/4 pound finely chopped suet 1 egg 

J\lix all dry ingredients together, beat egg and stir 
in, and add enough milk to make a thick batter. Pour 
into a buttered mould and cover with buttered paper 
Steam for three hours. Serve with any sweet pudding 
sauce. MRS. H. T. FOTHERGILL, 

Coaehella, Cal. 

Steamed Date Pudding 

I cup dates 1 egg 

1 cup sAveet milk 1/1 teaspoon salt 

2 cups Graham flour 2 teaspoons baking povrder 

1 teaspoon each of cinnamon, cloves and nutmeg 
Mix well and steam 3 hours. Serve with "Date 
Sauce. ' ' 

Steamed Indian Pudding 
Put in a sifter 14 cup Indian meal, 1/2 cup flour, 1 tea- 
spoon salt and 1 teasponful soda. Sift three times. 
Mix Yo c^^P suet, 1/2 cup molasses and add i/^ cup sour 
milk. Gradually add dry ingredients to this mixture 
and beat well all together. Add 1 cup dates, well 
floured. Butter mould and steam two hours or more 
then place in the oven until dry outside. 

MISS E. METZLER, 
Kansas City, Mo. 



PUDDING SAUCES 



** Hunger is the best sauce. 



Brown Sauce 

1 cup sugar butter the size of a small egg 

1 tablespoon of flour 

Set on the stove and brown, being careful not to burn. 
Add V/z cups of water, stirring constantly, and boil. 
Flavor with vanilla. MKS. L. H. KILLEY, 

Coachella, Calif. 

Chocolate Sauce 

2 cups of milk 2 tablespoons hot water 
11/2 tablespoons cornstarch 2 eggs 

2 squares Baker's chocolate % cup powdered sugar 

4 tablespoons powdered sugar 1 teaspoon vanilla 

Scald 1% cups milk, add cornstarch diluted with re- 
maining milk, and cook 8 minutes in a double boiler; 
melt chocolate ever hot water, add 4 tablespoons sugar 
and hot water, stir until smooth, then add to cooked 
mixture ; beat wliitos of eggs until stiff ; add gradually 
powdered sugar and continue beating, then add un- 
beaten yolks, and stir into cooked mixture, cook 1 min- 
ute, add vanilla, and cool before serving. 

MES. FANNIE M. FABMER. 

Cream Sauce 

1 cup whipping cream 14 teaspoon vanilla 

Vi cup powdered sugar 

Beat cream until stiff, then add sugar and vanilla. 



One cup means ^^^ pint. Cup, tablespoon and teaspoon all 
mean level measurements. 



24 DATE COOK BOOK 



Date Sauce 

1 cup dates chopped fine Vz cup hot water 

1/4 cup sugar Butter the size of au egg 

1 egg 
Mix all together, and boil a little. 

An Easily Made Pudding Sauce 

Mix 1 tablespoonful flour with Yz cup sugar. Add % 
pint boiling water. Boil a moment, and pour wliile hot 
over 1 ^^'g well beaten. Season with lemon or vanilla. 

Hard Sauce 

1 cup powdered sugar y^ teaspoon each of lemon 

% cup butter and vanilla 

Cream butter, add sugar, then flavoring. 
One Egg Sauce 

Yolk of 1 0.%% I cup sugar 

Vz cup butter 2 tablespoons cornstarch 

Pour over this 1 pint boiling water. Stir and cook till 
it thickens, then add 1 tablespoon vinegar, 1 dessertspoon 
vanilla. Pour over the well beaten white of 1 egg. 

MRS. M. A. LAWRENCE, 

Gunnison, Colorado. 

Vanilla Sauce 

Beat yolks of 4 eggs,- add 4 tablespoons sugar and 1 pint 
milk. Allow to come to a boil, stirring continually. Remove 
from the stove, and add y^ teaspoonful vanilla. 

Yellow Sauce 

Beat the yolks of 2 eggs until thick, and add gradually 
Yz cup powdered sugar. 

Beat the whites of 2 eggs until stiff, and add gradually 
Yi cup powdered sugar. 

Combine the two mixtures, and flavor with vanilla. 
Add a pinch of salt. 



COLD DESSERTS 



An't please your Honour/' quote the peasant, 
This same dessert is very pleasant.'* — Pope. 



Baked Apples 
Take tlie ceres out of good cooking apples, and fill the 
openings with finely chopped dates. 

Bake, after adding a little water, and serve, either hot 
or cold, with cream and a little sugar. 

MR8. HUGH PROCTOR, 

Coachella, Calif. 

Boiled Custard (no sugar) 

V2 pound dates cut in small pieces. 
Add 1 pint of milk and a pinch of salt. 

Cook in a double boiler till thick. This will require 
nearly an hour. 

Cereal Custard Pudding (no sugar) 

1 cupful of left over cooked A sprinkling of salt 
cereal Dates 

1 tablespoon of corn syrup 
1 cupful of milk 1 egg 

Mix the beaten egg, milk, syrup and salt; combine 
witli the cereal; add the dates, and bake as a custard. 

LADIES' HOME JOURNAL. 

Cocoanut and Date Pudding (no sugar) 

1 cup dessicated cocoanut 1 egg 

li> pound of dates 1 pint of milk 

Stone dates, and then fill a shallow pudding dish with 
alternate laj^ers of cocoanut and dates ; beat the egg well, 

One cup means V2 pint. Cup, tablespoon and teaspoon all 
moan level measurements. 



>6 DATE COOK BOOK 



adding milk, and pour this over the contents of the dish. 
Bake in a moderate oven till a nice brown. 

MRS. H. T. FOTHERGILL, 

CoachcUa, Calif. 

Dainty Sponge Fruit 

(A most delicious and light pudding, especially for children.) 
1 egg, its weight in granulated sugar, and three quarters 
its weight in flour, 1 teaspoonful baking powder. 

Beat egg, add sugar and then beat again; next grad- 
ually stir in the flour and baking powder ; add 1 dessert- 
spoon of milk, and beat well for three or four minutes. 
Pour into a well greased baking tin, and bake in a quick 
oven for twenty minutes. Serve hot or cold with ' ' stewed 
Dates." MRS. H. T. FOTHERGILL, 

Coachella, Calif. 

Date Bavarian Cream (no sugar) 

1 pint whipping cream 1 envelope gelatine 

1 cup milk 1 cup ground dates 

Soak gelatine in 3^ the milk, whip cream stiff; boil 
remaining milk and add gelatine. Let cool, then beat 
till it begins to thicken ; stir in whipped cream, mix well 
and pour into a mould. Serve with whipped cream 
heaped around. 

Date Blanc-Mange (no sugar) 

l^/y pints of milk 3/(> teaspoon salt 

1^^ tablespoons corn or maple 3 tablespoons of cornstarch 

syrup 1^ teaspoon vanilla 
12 seeded dates, cut up small 

Mix the cornstarch with % cup milk. Ilcat the re- 
maining milk in a double boiler, add cornstarch, syrup, 
dates and salt, and stir until thick. Cover and cook for 
twenty minutes. 

Add the vanilla, and pour into a dish to cool. Serves 
five people. MRS. B. E. ROBERTSON, 

Coachella, Calif. 



D ATE COOK BOOK 27 

Date Custard (without sugar) 

Scald % cup of stoned and chopped dates with 2 eups of 
milk. Let cool, then add 2 beaten cji:gs and a pinch of salt. 
Pour into greased custard cups, set in a pan of liot 
water and bake gently till custard is firm. 

Date Delight (no sugar) 

2 tablespoons of nut butter 1 pint of milk 

2 tablespoons of cornstarch 2 eggs 

3 tablespoons of honey 1 cup of chopped dates 
A few grains of salt 

^lelt the butter; stir in the cornstarch and the honey, 
add the milk and the salt. Cook in a double boiler for 
twenty minutes ; add the yolks of the eggs, and cook for 
five minutes. Remove from the fire; add to this the 
beaten v^iiites of the eggs and the dates. Place in cus- 
tard cups for individual serving. 

LADIES' HOME JOURNAL. 

Date Farina Cups (no sugar) 

To 1 pint of milk, add % teaspoonful of salt and % e«P 
of cut up dates. 

When boiling hot, add 6 tablespoons of farina, stirring con- 
tinually. 

Cook until very thick, and flavor with 1 teaspoon lemon 
extract. Pour into individual cups. When cold, turn 
out, and serve with lemon flavored custard sauce, and 
sprinkle thickly with chopped, blanched almonds. 

Date Jelly 

Three-rjuarter pound of dates. Stone, and boil in a 
little more than 1 quart of water. Strain through a fine 
strainer, ru})bing through wath a wooden spoon. 

Boil syrup, adding as it thickens 3 tablespoons sugar, 
1 ounce of gelatine, 1 wine glass of sherry, (fruit juice 
may be used) a little lemon juice and the grated rind. 

Pour into a wetted mould, and garnish with shredded 
almonds. MRS. R. H. POSTLETHWAITE, 

Coaehella, Calif. 



28 DATE COOK BOOK 



Date Pudding' 
(A sugarless pudding which uses both syrup and sweet fruit) 
2 cups milk 3 tablespoons cornstarch 

V2 cup corn or maple syrup y^ teaspoon salt 
% cup seeded dates cut up 1 teaspoon vanilla 
small 

iMix the cornstarch with % c^iP niilk. Heat the re- 
maining milk in a double boiler. Add cornstarch, syrnp, 
dates and salt : stir until thick. Cover and cook twenty 
minutes. Add the vanilla, and pour into a dish to cool. 
Prunes are good in place of dates. Serves five people. 
UNITED STATES FOOD LEAFLET XO. 15. 

Date Wliip 

1 pound dates V^ cup sanav (powdered) 

1 pint v.'liippino- cream 1 tcaspoonfiil vanilla 

1 cup Eng. walnut meats 

Stone dates and cut in small pieces. Cut nuts in 
small pieces. Whip cream until stiff, add nuts, sugar 
and dates. Flavor, chill and serve. 

MKS. G. J. SHOENHAIR, 

Hollywood, Calif. 

Divinity Pudding 

9 tablespoons of rolled cracker Vi pound dates (latter two in- 
crumbs gredients chopped, but not 

2 teaspoons baking poAvder fine) 

2 cups sugar 6 eggs beaten separately, 

2 cups English walnut meats whites added last 

Pour batter into a pan, and have it not more than 2 
inches thick. I^ake in a slow oven thirty minutes. Cut 
in squares, and serve with whipped cream. 

MRS. G. J. SHOENHAIR. 

Hollywood, Calif. 

Floating Island 

1 pint of milk 2 eggs 

Vz cup of chopped dates 1 scant tablespoon cornstarch 

Put dates and milk in a double boiler and heat. Add 



DATE COOK BOOK 29 



cornstarch, mixed smooth with a little milk, and the 
yolks of eggs well beaten. As soon as the custard thick- 
ens, pour into a dish. Beat the whites stiffly, add a 
little sugar and orange flavoring, and drop in small 
portions on the custard. On the top of each ''Island" 
put a half date. Serve verv cold. 

MRS. V. E. METZLEB. 

Fruit Compote 

5 oranges, cut fine 1 cup fresh dates, cut 

4 bananas, cut thin 1 cup walnuts 

1 cup malaga grapes, cut Juice of 1 lemon 

Sprinkle with sugar and ^ teaspoon cinnamon, and 
add whipped cream on top. 

Harlequin 

Cut marsh mallows, and put a layer in the bottom of a sher- 
bet glass, then a layer of coarsely chopped walnuts, a layer 
of fresh cut dates and lastly pineapple, cut in dice. The pine- 
apple must fill the dish. Place whipped cream on top with 
a cherry. 

Marshmallow Puddings 

One tablespoon gelatine dissolved in a little cold water. 
Tioil 1 cup sugar and % cup water till it forms a soft 
ball when tried in cold water, add gelatine and stir just 
enough to mix it with syrup. 

Beat the whites of 4 eggs to a stiff froth, add a pinch 
of salt, then pour over them slowly, beating continually, 
the hot syrup. Continue beating for some time, or until 
mixture begins to thicken : then pour in a mould. Chill, 
and serve witli whipped cream sprinkled with chopped 
dates. 

Part of the pudding may be colored if liked, either 
with the pink tablet or chocolate. May be moulded in 
individual moulds, or one large one. 

MRS. A. O. HAYWARD, 

Thermal, Calif. 



30 DATE COOK BOOK 



Orange and Date Jelly 

Simmer together 1% pints water, the juice of 1 lemon, the 
j^rated rind of 2 oranges, VL* dozen dates and a little nutmeg, 
8oak 1 tablespoon of gelatine in 1 cup sweet cider, and wlien 
the water and fruit boils, add this with 1 cup sugar and the 
juice of 2 oranges. 

Stir, and strain, but keep wann, except one table- 
spoon, which cool at once, and use in placing quarters 
and halves of dates around tlie edge of a mould set di- 
rectly on ice. 

After these are firm, add more jelly and fruit in lay- 
ers. Turn out when stiff, and surround with whipped 
cream. 

Sweet Fruit Pudding- 
Heat 1 pint of milk. 
Wet 6 level tablespoons cornstarch with a little cold 

milk. Stir this into the boiling milk, and cook until 

smooth. 

Beat the whites of 4 eggs until stiff, add ^4 cup sugar, 
then beat into the pudding. 

Stir well over the fire two minutes, then add 1 cup 
of dessicated cocoanut, or half a fresh one, and 1 cup 
seeded and chopped dates. 1 teaspoonful vanilla. 

Put in a mould, and let chill, and serve with ''Vanilla 
Sauce." MISS ALBERTA METZLER. 

Tapioca Pudding (no sugar) 

Soak 3 tablespoons tapioca in a little water till soft. Boil 
IVo pints milk and add tapioca. Put in the well beaten yolks 
of 3 eggs and 1 tablespoon cornstarch mixed with a little milk. 
Add % cup cut dates. 

Let it just come to a boil, then pour into a dish to 
cool. Beat the whites of the eggs to a stiff froth, stir in 
a little powdered sugar, and put on the top of cream. 



DATE COOK BOOK 31 

Date Parfait 

1 pint of whipping ereara 3 tablespoons water 

4 eggs ^2 pound ground dates, 

li cup sugar weighed after grinding 

Boil sugar and water in a small dish until it just begins 
to *'spin a thread", then pour over the well beaten eggs, 
beating continually. Let cool. Whip the cream, add 
dates, and, with a fork, mix them well through the 
cream, add the egg and syrup and- pour in a mould. 
Pack in ice and salt, and freeze about four hours. If 
small moulds are used (baking powder cans are good) 
not as long a time is required for freezing. Dip a nar- 
row strip of muslin in melted grease, and stretch tightly 
around wliere the can and lid join to insure keeping 
salty water out. MRS. V. E. METZLER, 

Coachella, Calif. 

Ice Cream 

1 quart thin cream l'\<> teaspoons vanilla 
H cup sugar 2 cups dates 

Stone and grind the dates, let them soak a few hours 
in the cream, then add sugar and flavoring and freeze 
in the usual way. 

Tutti Fruita Ice Cream 

2 cups milk 34 cup sugar 
Yolks 5 eggs 1^ teaspoon salt 
2'^:. cups thin cream 1 tablespoon vanilla 

1% cups fruit cut in small pieces 

Make a custard of first four ingredients, strain, and 
cool. Add the cream and flavoring, then freeze to the 
consistency of mush, add the fruit, and continue 
freezing. 

May be served this way, or put in a mould, packed in 
salt and ice and let stand 2 hours, then slice. 

P^'or fruit, use candied cherries, dates, pineapple, figs, 
.sultana raisins and citron, all, or a part of them. 



CONFECTIONS 



Sweets to the Sweet" 



Bon-Bon Cream 

5 pounds of sugar IY2 pints water 

6 drops acetic acid 

Put sugar and water in a kettle, and set on a hot stove, 
stir till well dissolved. Just before it boils splash it up 
on the sides of the kettle to wash down the undissolved 
sugar, then wipe sides of the kettle with a damp cloth. 
Now put in acid, and cover and steam for a few^ minutes. 
Remove cover, and put in the thermometer, and cook 
to 240 degrees. Pour out and cool quickly. When per- 
fectly cold, work it, and set away with a cloth over it 
wrung out of cold water. 

Do not stir after it begins to boil. 

Do not jar or move the kettle while the syrup is 
cooking. 

Do not grease the platter or slab on which the fondant 
is poured. Never put the scrapings with the main part, 
and do not move while cooling. Nice to use alone, or 
\^ itli, other combinations to stuff dates. 

Chocolate Dainties 

Put through a raeat chopper >< cup each of dates, figs 
and nut meats. Add 1 tablespoon orange juice and a lit- 
tle grated orange peel, and 1 square of melted, sweet- 
ened chocolate. 

Mould in balls, and roll in chopped nuts or granulated 
sugar. This mixture may be packed in an oiled tin, put 
under a weight until firm, then cut in any shape desired. 

One cup means 1-2 pint. Cup, tablespoon and teaspoon all 
mean level measurements. 



DATE COOK BOOK 33 

Chocolate Dates 

ReiKOve the seed from dates, roll them up and coat 
with chccolate. Or, stuff these dates with chopped hick- 
ory uut meats. Press firmly together and coat with choc- 
olate. They are very fine. 

Use confectioner's "Coating Chocolate," either sweet 

or bitter, wliieh is preferred. If you cannot procure the 

coating chocolate, use the regular baking chocolate, and, 

after it is melted, add enough XXXX sugar to sweeten. 

*'TIIE AKT OF HOME CANDY MAKING.^' 

Chocolate Dominoes 

% cup pecan meats Grated rind of 1 orange 

1,1. cup English walnut meats 1 tablespoon orange juice 

"Vz cup figs 1 square chocolate 
% cup dates 

Mix nuts and fruit, and put through a food chopper. 
Wet with the orange juice, mix in the grated rind, and 
roll in a ball. Lay on a baking board, which has been 
(.covered with sifted confectioner's sugar, and roll >^ inch 
thick. Cut in shapes the size of a domino, and spread 
with melted chocolate. On top lay little rounds cut from 
blanched almonds to imitate dominoes. 

MRS. I. G. CURTIS. 

Thermal, Calif. 

Date Balls 
Put stoned dates through a meat chopper, roll in balls, 
and then in ground nut meats. 

MRS. A. O. HAYWARD, 
Thermal, Calif. 

Date Brittle 

2 pounds sugar Dates 

'o pound glucose Vanilla extract 

% pint water 

Put the sugar, glucose and water in a kettle and stir 
until it commences to boil. Wash down the sides of the 



34 DATE COOK BOOK 



kettle and steam. Put in the thermometer and cook to 
275 or 280. Flavor with vanilla. Stir lightly because 
the syrup may turn to sugar. Pour on a greased slab 
which has been previously covered with cut dates. When 
cold cut into small pieces. 

''THE ART OF HOME CANDY MAKING.'^ 

Date Delight 

2 cups light brown sugar 1 cup chopped dates 

1 cup granulated sugar 1 tablespoonful of butter 

1 cup milk 1 teaspoon vanilla 

Boil sugar and milk a few minutes, add butter and 
boil until a soft ball will form in water. 

Add vanilla and dates, beat till creamy, and pour into 
a buttered pan. Cut in squares. 

MISS BEATRICE McLEISH, 

Riverside, Calif. 

Date Caramels 
Take any dry date, seed and put through a grinder. 
Press into a cake and cut in squares about the size of 
a caramel. 

Dip in melted confectioner's chocolate, sweetened to 
taste. . MRS. C. O. MOSS, 

Coaehella, Calif. 

Dates Instead of Candy 
To 2 cups date pulp (v/hich has been put through tli<' 
finest knife of the chopper) use 2 large tablespoons nut 
butter. Mix tlioroughly, knead a short time, then roll 
out an inch in thickness, and cut in cubes. 
Roll in oiled paper. 

Tliis nut and fruit combination will keep some time. 

MRS. E. PALMER, 

• Mecca, Calif. 



DATE COOK BOOK 35 

Date Kisses 

Whites of 4 eggs % cup ground nuts 

2 cups brown sugar 

1 pound chopped dates Vanilla flavoring 

Beat the whites to a stiff froth, add sugar, then dates, 
which have been cut very fine or ground, and weighed 
after stoning, then add nuts and vanilla. Drop from a 
teaspoon on lightly buttered baking sheets, and bake in 
a slow oven until slightly brown. 

MRS. E. PALMER, 

Mecca, Calif. 

Fruit Paste 

Use dried apricots and dates. 

Wash apricots, and soak over night in enough water 
to cover. Pour off water, bring to a boil, pour over apri- 
cots, and let stand till cold. Put apricots and dates 
through a meat chopper. There should be half a pint of 
fruit and juice. 

Heat the fruit, and add 2 tablespoons gelatine, previ- 
ously softened in a very little cold water. Stir well, and 
continue stirring until it begins to cool and thicken, then 
pour into an oiled dish to make a layer 1 inch thick. 

Let drj^ slowly, sprinkle with sugar and place in box 
with waxed paper between the layers. 

Fruit Roll 
Boil 2 cups white sugar with Vi cup water till it forms 

a soft ball in cold water. 

- Remove from the fire, let cool and beat until it creams. 

Be careful not to liave too stiff. 

Add ] cup each of finely chopped dates and figs, and 

beat as long as possible. Roll in a Avet cloth, and leave 

in a cool place (A^er night- 
Slice in thin strips or cut in fancy shapes. 



30 DATE COOK BOOK 



Fruit Toiie 

One pound loaf sugar, 1 cnp water and 1 teaspoon 
cream of tartar. Boil till hard when tried in water. 

Tlien take fruit, such as grapes, dates, pieces of orange 
or any other fruit and dip in the toffe while hot. 

They will soon become hard. 

MRS. H. A. FOTHERGILL, 

Coachella, Calif. 

Holiday Hash 

2 cups granulated sugar % cup golden corn syrup 

^/^ cup of maple or brown ] cup water and a pinch of 

sugar of cream of tartar. 

Boil to the hard "soft ball" stage, add 1 teaspoonful 
of vanilla and pour over tlie stiffly beaten whites of 2 
eggs. Have read.y Vt cup each of chopped dates, can- 
died cherries, citron and orange rind and ^ cup of 
chopped or shredded cocoanut. 

Beat the syrup till light and foamy, then stir in the 
fruit. Pour in a buttered tin, and mark off into squares. 

Nut and Fniit loaf 

1 Y>ound dates % pound of raisins 

^2 pound dried figs 1 pint shelled peanuts 

y^ pint citron i^. pint shelled walnuts 

Put all of the above through a grinder. 

Boil 1-pound sugar, y^ cup vinegar and 1 tablespoon 
butter until quite hard, but not brittle, when dropped in 
cold water. 

Beat until partly cold, then add fruit and nuts. 

When it begins to harden, turn on a damp cloth and 
work into a roll. Wrap the cloth about it, and, when 
cold, cut in thin slices. MRS. T. J. GRIDLEY, 

Persian Sweets 

1 pound of figs 1 pound English walnut meats 

1 pound dates Confectioner's sugar 



DATE COOK BOOK 



Remove stems from figs anl stones from dates. Mix 
fruit with nut meats, and force through a meat-chopper. 
Work with the hands on a board dredged with confec- 
tioner's sugar, until well blended. Roll to % inch thick- 
ness, shape v/ith a small round cutter, or cut with a 
sharp knife in % inch squares. Roll each piece in con- 
fectioner's sugar, and shake to remove superfluous sugar. 
Pack in a layer in a tin box, putting waxed paper be- 
tvreen each layer. These confections may be used at 
<linncr in place of bon-bons or ginger chips. 

MES. F. M. FARMER. 

Stuffed Dates 

Remove the stones from dates. Fill with peanuts, wal- 
nuts, hickory nuts or any nuts available. Peanut butter 
makes a good filling. Press dates in shape and roll in 
granulated sugar, chopped nuts or a mixture of cocoa and 
powdered cinnamon. 

Stone dates and fill with cheese, or pimiento cheese 
or minced olives. 

Dates may be filled v.ith any kind of fondant. 

Fondant mixed with nuts, fondant with candied fruit, 
with chocolate or any combination. 

Fill dates with a mixture of marshmallows, candied 
cherries and pineapple. 

Sugarless Caramels 
Pass 1 pound dates, 1 pound of figs and Yi pound of 
pecans tlircugh a grinder. Softt^n with a little lemon 
juice. Cut into caramel shapes, and roll lightly in gran- 
ulated sugar. 

V/ar Time Candy 
Boil 1 cup corn syrup, or molasses, until it is quite hard 
when dropped in cold water; then pour it slowly, stirr- 
ing constantly, over puffed rice and a few cut up dates. 



PIES AND TARTS 



'No soil upon earth is so dear to our eyes, 
As the soil we first stirred in terrestrial pies. ' * 

— Holmes. 



Pie Paste 

% cup lard or other shortening % teaspoonsful salt 
1^ cups flour Cold water 

Mix shortening and salt with the flour, and moisten 
to a dough with the cold water. 

Puff Paste 

1 cup flour 1 tablespoonful lard 

Scant cup butter Cold, or ice water 

Work lard into the flour, and moisten dough with ice 
water. Put out on a board, and roll out, using as little 
flour as possible. Dot paste with small pieces of butter, 
sprinkle with flour and fold both ways so it will make 
4 layers. Roll out, and repeat until butter is used. 
Roll, shape, chill and bake in a hot oven. 

Buttermilk Pie 

1 cup buttermilk 1 tablespoonful of flour 

% cup sugar Vn teaspoon cinnamon 

1 cup chopped dates 

Bake in two crusts. MRS. S. S. METZLER, 

Denver, Colorado. 

Christmas Pie 

?> largo lemons 4 pounds brown sugar 

2 dozen apples 1 ounce each of candied 
2 pounds stoned raisins orange, lemon and citron 
1 i)Ouud stoned dates peel 

1 pou)id currants 1 small pot marmalade 

One cup means K» pint. Cup, tablespoon and teaspoon all 
mean level mensurements. 



DATE C OOK BOOK 39 

1^/2 pounds suet 1 pint boiled cider 

Bake like mince pieces. MES. J. E. HASTEN, 

La Colle, Quebec, Canada. 

Combina.tion Pie 

2 cups chopped dates % cup sugar 

1 cup raw apples 1^ cups milk 

Put dates and apples through a meat chopper, add the 
rest of the ingredients, and bake in one crust with 
twisted straps across the top. K. HAYWARD, 

Thermal, Calif. 

Cottage Cheese Pie 

One-half cup finely cut dates soaked in 1 cup milk 
for about two hours. 

One cup very fine and smooth cottage cheese, and add 
to this 2 well beaten eggs. 

Add gradually % cup sugar, then add milk and dates ; 
li teaspoon salt and 1 tablespoon lemon juice. 

Bake in one crust. (If dates are not used ^ cup 
sugar will be necessary.) MRS. V. E. METZLER. 

Date Cream Pie 

4 tablespoons Crisco *^ cup sugar 

4 tablespoons flour 1 cup dates stoned and cut 

■'i teaspoon salt 2 eggs well beaten 

2 cups milk Plain pastry 

^telt Crisco and in it cook flour and salt till frothy; 
add milk, and stir till boiling; add sugar and dates, and 
stir till dates are softened a little. Beat in the eo;g^, 
and turn in a pie plate lined with pastry. 

Bake till crust is brown and custard set. 

JAXET McKENZIE HILL. 

Date and Apple Pie 
Enough paste for upper and lower crust. 
Fill pie pan nearly full of nice juicy apples, sliced. 



40 DATE COOK BOOK 

Sprinkle with a little sugar and a very little flour. 
On top of this place a layer of stoned dates, and put 
on top cover. Bake in a moderate oven. 

MRS. G. SIIOPE, 
Coachella, Calif. 

Date ajid Nut Pie 

1 cup ground dates 2 cups water 

% cup nut meats Yolks of 3 eggs 

% cup sugar Whites of eggs for frosting 

1 cup of milk 4 tablespoons cornstarch 

Grind dates and nuts, add to milk and water, and heat, 
add sugar, and, when all is mixed, stir in the cornstarch 
which has been made smooth with a little milk. Add 
yolks of eggs, cook a little longer, then put in previously 
baked crusts, flakes two large pies. 

MES. W. G. SAVAGE, 

Coaehella, Calif. 

Date Pie (no sugar) 

One pound dates, stoned, and cut in small pieces. Soak 
over night, or for several hours in 1 pint thin sweet 
cream. In the morning, add 1 whole egg and yolks of 
two more, reserving remaining whites for frosting. Bake 
in one crust. 

This amount makes one very large pie, or two mod- 
erate sized ones. MRS. SPARLING, 

Denver, Colorado. 

Date Pie II (no sugar) 

1 pint of milk % cup stoned dates 

2 eggs 14 teaspoonful nutmeg 
A pinch of salt 

Cook milk and dates in a double boiler till soft. Rub 
through a colander, add eggs and salt. Bake in one 
crust. 

Date Strips 
Use any good pie paste or puff paste, and roll as you 
would for pie crust. Cut in squares or strips and brush 



DATE COOK BOOK 41 

over lightly with the unbeaten white of an egg. Put on 
a baking sheet, and sprinkle each with ground nuts and 
dates mixed. 

This is a good way to use left over pie crust. 

Date Tartlets 

1 cup sugar M: eup milk 

Jo cup butter 1 cup dates 

3 eggs % cup English walnut meats 

1 teaspoonful vanilla 

Cream butter and sugar, add yolks of eggs, milk and 
dates, which have been cooked in a little water till tender. 

Line gem pans with pie paste, put in mixture, and 
bake. Beat v.hites of eggs, add powdered sugar and 
vanilla for meringue. Brown if liked. This amount 

makes twelve tarts. 

(Since food conservation, the above rule has been tried with- 
out sugar, and found to be extra nice.) 

MRS. BRUCE DRUMMOND, 

Indio, Calif. 

Sour Cream Pie 

1 cup sour cream 1 teaspoon vinegar 

1 cup sugar 1 teaspoon cinnamon 

1 cup dates V2 teaspoon cloves 

Line a pan with crust, bake a little, add filling, and 
bake slowly till filling is set. MRS. FRED MAISON, 

Coachella, Calif. 

Sweet Cream Pie 

Make and bake a crust and set away to cool. 

One cup whipping cream; 2 teaspoons sugar; J/2 eup 
finely ground dates (do not pack down to measure.) 
Flavoring to taste. 

Whip cream until stiff, then add dates, sugar and 
flavoring. 

When crust is cool, fill with the cream, and set in a 

cool place until used. Must be eaten same day it is made. 

MRS. A. F. DECKER 
Crested Butte, Colorado 



El CAKE B 



'My rule? Why certainly: It's queer: 
But no one ever ate that cake, 

Who does not ask me for the rule — 
(How much to use, how long to bake.'') 



Apple Sauce Cake (in Layers) 



1 cup brown sugar 

1/4 cup butter 

^V2 cups hot apple sauce ( un- 
sweetened) into which put 
1 scant teaspoonful soda, 
mash. 



y^ teaspoonful each of cloves 

and salt 
1 teaspoonful cinnamon 
1 egg (may be omitted) 
1 cup chopped dates and rai- 
sins mixed with 2 cups flour 
1 teaspoonful vanilla 

If liked ^ cup of chopped nuts may be added. 
Bake in two layers, and put together with frostini^ 
or jelly. MRS. A. eackett, 

Hollywood, Calif. 



Apple Sauce 

2 cups hot apple sauce 

2 teaspoons soda 

1 teaspoon salt 

1 cup sugar 

M} cup shortening 

1 cup raisins 

1 cup stoned dates 

Enough flour for rather 
Mix in the order given, 
keep a long time. 



Loaf Cake 

^2 pound chopped citron 
1 teaspoon cinnamon 
] teaspoon cloves 

1 teaspoon allspice 

2 teasjioons baking powder in 
flour 

thick batter. 

and bake one hour. Will 
MRS. G. A. SHOPE, 
Coaehella, Calif. 



One cup means l-j pint. Cup, ta'olespoon and teaspoon all 
mean level measurements. 



DATE COOK BOOK 43 

Cake or Pudding 

1 pound dates, stoned and cut \<2 teaspoon salt 

1 cup Eng. walnut meats 4 eggs 

1/2 cup flour \^ tablespoon Crisco 

1 teaspoon baking powder % cup sugar 

Beat the whites of eggs, stir in the sugar, add yolks 
of eggs, Crisco, then the dates, nuts, flour, baking pow- 
der and salt. Turn into a greased pan, and bake thirty 
minutes. Cut in squares, and use as cake or pudding 
with whipped cream. MBS. BRUCE DBUMMOND, 

Indio, Calif. 

Cracker Cake 

6 egg yolks, creamed 1 cup nuts 

1 cup sugar 4 tablespoons cracker crumbs 

1 cup dates 1 teaspoon baking powder 

Add slightly beaten whites last. Bake slowly. 

MRS. K. CHAMBERLAIN, 
Coachella, Calif. 

Crumby Toast 

6 eggs beaten separately Va pound chopped walnuts 

% cup butter 1 pound dates 

1 cup sugar 6 tablespoons fine bread 

crumbs 

Cream butter and sugar, add yolks beaten well, then 
add dates and nuts, which have been cut in small pieces. 
Mix baking powder and crumbs and add to mixture, 
and lastly add avcII beaten whites. 

Bake in a rather thin sheet in a moderate oven. 

Serve with whipped cream as a frosting. 

MRS. ELLIS, 
Denver, Colo. 

Crumb Cake 

1 cup sugar 1 pound of dates 

1 cup bread crumbs V2 pound walnuts 



44 DATE COOK BOOK 



6 eggs 1 teaspoon baking powder 

A pinch of salt 

Beat yolks of eggs, add sugar, dates, nuts, salt and 
crumbs, Avith which mix the baking powder. Lastly 
fold in the well -beaten whites. Bake in a loaf. Slice in 
%-ineh slices or break in pieces, and serve w^ith 
whipped cream as a dessert. 

'TARMEE'S WIFE." 

Date Cake 

Weight of 3 eggs in each sugar and flour. 

Weight of 2 eggs in butter. 

1 teaspoon baking powder. 

Grated rind of 1 lemon, or 1 tablespoon marmalade. 

Put in the 3 eggs. 

About thirty dates, halved, stoned and the holes 
filled with almonds, blanched and halved. 

Beat sugar and butter to a cream, add beaten eggs, 
then flour and baking powder, lastly grated lemon 
rind. 

Put this mixture in tin about eight inches square, 
and on the top lay dates in roAvs close together. 

Bake about twenty minutes. When cold, turn up- 
side down, as dates v/ill have sunk to the bottom. 

Ice Avith the juice of an orange made stiif Avith poAv- 
dered sugar. MRS. C. GOLQUHOUN, 

New Zealand. 

Date Cake (Without Eggs) 

1 cup sugar 1 teaspoonful of soda 

1-; cup shortening 2 cups flour 

Spiec of all kinds IVz pounds of dates, stoned 

] cup sour milk and chopped 

Mix in the usual Avay, and bake in a loaf. 

MISS VIOLA MEYER, 

Coaehella, Calif. 



DATE COOK BOOK 43 

Date Loaf 

li cup Ciisco 4 teaspoons baking power 

1 cup sugar mixed with the flour 

1 egg 1 cup dates, cut fine 

2 cups milk 1 cup walnuts cut 
4 cups flour 

Sift a little flour over dates and nuts to prevent stick- 
ing. Citron or lemon peel is an improvement. Bake 
in a slow oven 1 hour. MRS. w. L. PAUL, 

Coachella, Calif. 

Date and Nut Loaf 

1 pound of dates, weighed 4 level teaspoonfuls baking 

after stoning powder 

1 pound walnuts 4 eggs, yolks and whites 

1 cup flour beaten separately 

% teaspoon salt 1 teaspoonful of vanilla 

1 cup sugar 

Mix salt and baking powder well with flour, add dates 
and walnuts, then sugar, and mix thoroughly. Add 
yolks and fold in the whites. Put in a loaf tin lined 
with buttered paper, and bake in a slow oven 1 hour. 
Will keep a long time. 

MRS. BRUCE DRUMMOND, 
Indio, Calif. 

Date Shortcake 

1 cup sugar 1 tablespoon butter 

1 egg 1 cup sweet milk 

2 teaspoons baking powder Flavoring 

2 rounded up cups flour 

Bake in round pans. 

For filling; grind dates in meat chopper, beat white 
of egg with 1 tablespoon of Avater; add a little sugar 
and the dates and spread between layers. 
May be used either as cake or shortcake. 

MRS. C. E. COOK, 

Indio, Calif. 



46 DATE COOK BOOK 



Devil's Cake 

M cup butter I/2 cup wheat flour 

% cup brown sugar i^ cup barley flour 

% cups finely minced dates '/4 cup cocoa 

2 yolks of eggs 1 teaspoon vanilla 

1^2 eup sour cream 2 whites of eggs 
-% teaspoon soda 

Mix in order given. Bake in a moderate oven. 

MR8. T. J. GRIDLEY, 

Dutch Bread 

Put into a sifter % cup sugar, V^ cups flour, i/^ 
teaspoonful each of cinnamon, allspice and baking 
powder. Add 1/2 cup dates, % cup nut meats, 1 cup 
sour milk, 1 tablespoon shortening, yolk of 1 egg, 4 
tablespoons orange marmalade (or any jam,) 3/4 tea- 
spoon soda. Salt. 

Beat well, and bake in a loaf in a moderate oven. 

Fruit Cake 

Cream together ^'2 cup drippings or vegetable fat, 
V2 cup butter and 1 cup sugar; then gradually add 4 
well beaten eggs. Add 1 cup molasses, ^ pound of cur- 
rants, Y2 pound of dates, 1 pound seeded raisins, jA 
pound of shredded candied citron peel, i/i cup chopped 
nat meats, ^2 cup fruit juice, 4 cups flour mixed and 
sifted with 3 teaspoons baking powder, 1.4 teaspoon salt, 
2 teaspoons powdered ginger, 1 teaspoon each of pow- 
dered cloves and cinnamon and nutmeg. ^lix well, turn 
into a greased and papered cake tin, and bake in a mod- 
erately hot oven for 3 hours. 

Gingerbread 

Cream 1/0 cup buttci' with Vo cup sugar. Add 2 well 
beaten eggs. Beat this into 1 cup molasses and 1 tea- 



DATE COOK BOOK 47 

spoon each of cinnamon, ginger and cloves. Add 1 cup 
boiling water in which dissolve 2 teaspoons soda. 
Finally beat in 2i^ cups flour sifted with 1 teaspoon 
baking powder and 14 teaspoon salt. 

Beat thoroughly, and do not add any more flour 
though batter seems thin. 

Pour in a dripping pan, sprinkle chopped dates and 
a few nuts over top, and bake slowly 45 minutes. 

MRS. H. A. WESTERFIELD, 

Coachella, Calif. 

'Lightening Cake 

% eup soft butter 1% cups flour 

lYs cups brown sugar 3 teaspoons baking povrder 

2 eggs ^2 teaspoon cinnamon 

% eup milk % teaspoon grated nutmeg 

V2 pound dates, stoned and cut in pieces 

Put ingredients in a bowl and beat all together for 
three minutes. Bake in a buttered and floured cake 
pan thirty-five to forty minutes. If directions are fol- 
loAved this makes a very satisfactory cake; but if in- 
gredients are added separately it will not prove a 
success. MRS. G. SHOPE, 

Coachella, Calif. 

Marble Cake (1 Egg) 

% cup violet shortening or 1 toaspoonful vanilla 

Crisco 2 teaspoonfuls baking powdei? 

1 egg 2 cups flour 

% toaspoonful salt 1 eup sugar 
% cup milk 

Brown Part 

3 large tablespoonfuls batter 1 teasjioonful cocoa or choc- 
Add cinnamon, cloves and olate 

nutmeg 1 cup dates, cut in small pieces 

Cream shortening and sugar, add well beaten egg. 
vanilla and salt, sift baking powder and flour, stir into 



48 DATE COOK BOOK 

sugar mixture alternately with the milk, add well beaten 
white of 1 egg last. Beat a long time. 

Place in alternate spoonfuls in a loaf cake pan, and 
bake in a moderate oven. MRS. T. M. MILLER, 

Los Angeles, Calif. 

New England Election Cake With Dates 

Cream Yz cup of butter and work with the hand into 
1 cup light bread dough; add 1 egg, well beaten, 1 cup 
soft brown sugar, Yi cup sour milk, y^ cup chopped rai- 
sins, y^ cup dates, and 6 finely chopped figs. 

Dredge fruit with a small amount of flour. 

Mix and sift \y^ cups flour with % teaspoonful soda. 

1 teaspoonful cinnamon 14 teaspoonful nutmeg 

% teaspoonful cloves 1 teaspoonful salt 

% teaspoonful mace 

Add to first mixture and mix well. 

Put into a buttered bread pan, covered and let rise 
1^4 hours. 

Bake in a slow oven. Frost if desired. 

MISS ALBERTA METZLER, 
Coachella, Calif. 

One Egg Spice Cake 

li: cup Ciiseo 1 teaspoonful soda 

1 cup sugar Cinnamon, nutmeg and cloves 

1 cup sour milk to taste 

-^^ cups flour I cup dates and raisins mixed 

Combine in the usual way, and bake in a loaf. 

MRS. M. McLEISH, 

Riverside, Calif. 

Plum Cake 

1 pound flour 2 ounces candied lcn)on pool 

Va. pound l>utter ^2. pint milk 



DATE COOK BOOK 49 

U pound sugar 1 teaspooiiful soda 

V2 pound dates 

Put in a basin, flour, sugar, dates, and sliced candied 
peel. Beat butter to a cream, and mix it with above in- 
G:redients, and milk. Stir in soda dissolved in 2 table- 
spoons milk; add to dough, and beat the whole until all 
is well mixed. 

Put dough in a buttered tin, and bake from 11,^2 to 
2 hours. MES. R. H. POSTLETHWAITE,*' 

Coachella, Calif. 

Ribbon Cake (Layers) 

2 eups su^ar 3 cups flour 

% cup butter 4 teaspoonfuls baking powder 

3 eggs 1 teaspoonful flavoring 

1 eup milk 

Bake % of the above. To the remaining add 1 table- 
spoonful of molasses, 1 cup chopped dates, spices and a 
trifle more flour. When cakes are baked, put together 
alternately with a very thin layer of jelly. 

Sour Cream Cake 

V/j eups sour cream 1 teaspoon soda 

1% eups sugar 2 eups flour 

3 eggs 1 teaspoon baking powder 

^1. cup each of dates and A little salt and flavoring 
raisins 

Mix, and bake in a loaf. MRS. R. F. HAISH, 

Hollywood, Calif. 

Three-Minute Date Cake 

2 eggs 1% flips flour 

V2 cup sweet milk 4 teaspoons baking powder 

Ws cups brown sugar ''^ teaspoon cinnamon 

Vi cup melted butter V^ teaspoon nutmeg 

Beat for three minutes, and bake in two layers for 
twenty minutes. Put "Date Orange Curd" between 
layers, and "Orange Icing" on top. 

MRS. J. G. NUSBAUM, 
Coachella, Calif. 



50 DATE COOK BOOK 



Waihi Cake (From New Zealand) 

% pound butter, beaten to a 4 eggs added one by one 

cream with the hand 1 pound of flour mixed with 4 

y2 pound sugar, added and level teaspoons baking pow- 

beaten der 

Add flour alternately with >^ cap warm milk. 

Lastly add I/2 pound of dates and 2 ounces candied 
peel cut fine. Can be baked in large tins or individuals. 
MRS. R. 11. POSTLETHWAITE, 

Coaehella, Calif. 

War Time Spice Cake 

5/4 cup of Crisco ^/^ teaspoonful cinnamon 

% cup sugar y^ teaspoonful cloves 

^2 cup Karo V2 teaspoonful allspice 

1 egg A pinch of salt 

% cup milk, a pinch of ginger 1 cup cut dates 

1 teaspoonful of vanilla 1% cup barley flour 

3 teaspoonfuls baking powder 1 egg 

Cream sugar, Crisco and egg yolk; add karo and stir. 
Add alternately the milk and dry ingredients sifted to- 
gether. Add the flavoring, and fold in the well beaten 
whites. Bake in a moderate oven in a loaf. 

White Cake 

1 cup butter and 2 cups sugar 3^ cups flour with which sift 
creamed 4 teaspoonfuls baking pow- 

1 cup sweet milk der 

Whites of 8 eggs 1 teaspoonful vanilla or al- 

mond flavoring 

Bake either as a loaf or in layers. Four whole eggs 
may be used instead of the 8 whites. 

Use boiled frosting wdth l^ cup each chopped dates 
and nuts added. MRS. A. G. proctor, 

Coachelln, Cnlir. 



COOKIES and SMALL CAKES 



Appetite comes with eating.** Rabelais. 



Bishop's Bread, No. 1 

4 eggs and 2 cups sugar beaten 2 cups flour 

well together 1% teaspoon baking powder 

1 cup dates Pinch salt and 1 teaspoon 
1 cup nuts vanilla 

Bake in a shallow pan slowly for about forty minutes. 

MRS. K. CHAMBERLAIN, 

Coachella, Calif. 

Bishop's Bread, No. 2 

3 eggs well beaten, ly^ cups flour 

add 1 cup sugar, and beat 3 2 teaspoonfuls baking powder 
minutes Add Mi cup each of dates, rai- 

sins and almonds cut fine 

Bake in a moderate oven, and when done and still 
hot, cut in oblong strips. Eat when cold. 

MRS. M. REYNOLDS, 
Hollywood, Calif. 

Cake Balls 

Use any good sponge cake. The folloAving is a good 
one given by Mrs. R. H. Postlethwaite : 

Four eggs, beaten separately. To the yolks add 1 
scant cup sugar and a pinch of salt. Beat well, then 
add % cup potato flour in which put 1 teaspoon bak- 
ing powder. Beat again, and add vanilla, and lastly 
the whites of the eggs. Bake in a moderate oven till 

One cup means ^i pint. Cup, tablespoon and teaspoon all 
moan level measurements. 



DATE COOK BOOK 



it rises, then increase the heat for a few miixutes to 
hold it up, and bake in a shallow slab till brown. 

To make the balls, cut sponge cake in 1 inch squares, 
or a little larger, nip off the corners with a knife and 
dip in ** Boiled Frosting '', then roll in a mixture of 
dates and nuts. 

Chocolate Cookies 

1 cup brown sugar 3 oz. chocolate 

V2 cup butter 1^ cups flour 

% cup sour milk Vo cup nuts 

1 egg 1 cup ground dates 
% teaspoon soda 

Drop from a spoon and bake. 

Coachella Brownies 

Cream % cup butter with 1 cup sugar, add 2 scant 
squares of Baker's chocolate, melted. 

2 eggs slightly beaten, 14 cup chopped almonds. 

% cup cut up dry dates 

V2 cup sifted flour. 

Bake in a thin layer for ten minutes in a moderate 
oven. When done, cut in strips or squares. 

Christmas Cakes 

6 eggs 1 cup almonds cut fine 

1 cupful of granulated sugar 1 cup dates stoned and cut fine 

1 cup full bread crumbs, sifted ^^ pound figs dio])ped fine 

fine 1 teaspoonful baking powder 
1 tablcspoouful lemon juice 

Beat the yolks and sugar well and add gradually in 
succession, beating well all the time, the lemon juice, 
nuts, dates, figs, bread crumbs and baking powder 
mixed; and, lastly, the whites beaten until stiff. Bake 
in a single sheet about 1/2 inch thick. Cover with plain 



DATE COOK BOOK 53 



boiled icing, and sprinkle generouslj' with a mixture 
of chopped figs, nuts and dates. 
Cut ill small diamond shapes. 

MBS. V. E. METZLER, 
Coachella, Calif. 

Date Cake 

2 cups sugar 2 cups walnuts 

4 eggs 2 tablespoons flour 

2 cups dates 2 teaspoons baking powder 

Bake in a thin sheet for one-half hour m a slow oven. 
Nice in layers, with whipped cream between. 

MRS. LIBBIE SALES, 

Los Angeles, Calif. 

Date Crackers 

Put 1 scant pound stoned dates, 1 cup granulated 
sugar, and % cup cold water together and boil till soft. 
Allow to cool. Cream 1 cup brown sugar and 1 cup 
butter, or other shortening, then add 2i/^ cups rolled 
oats and 2^2 cups flour. Mix well with the hands. Add 
I/O cup warm water in which dissolve 1 teaspoon soda. 

Divide the dough in 2 equal parts, roll very thin, 
spread date mixture on one layer, place second layer 
on top of filling, and cut in squares. Bake to a light 
bro^^n in hot oven. 

These are nice with coffee or to use as a regular 
cooky. LADIES' HOME JOURNAL, May, 1912. 

Date Cookies 

V2 cup butter Vt teaspoonful salt 

% cup sugar % teaspoonful cinnamon 

2 eggs % t'up chopped walnuts 

Vj teaspoonful soda dissolved % cup dates, seeded and 

in 3 tablespoonfuls sour chopped 

milk 1% cups flour 



54 DATE COOK BOOK 



Cream butter, add sugar gradually, then add egg 
well beaten, soda dissolved in milk, ^^ cup of the flour 
mixed and sifted with salt and cinnamon. Add wal- 
nuts, dates and the rest of the flour. Drop by spoon- 
fuls, one inch apart on a greased pan, and bake in a 
moderate oven. ALBERT METZLEB, 

Coachella, Calif. 

Date Macaroons 

1 cup sugar 2 cups sifted flour 
% cup butter % teaspoon soda 

2 eggs 1 teaspoon salt 

Stir until light and creamy 1 teaspoon cinnamon 

Sift flour, soda, salt and cinnamon together, and add 
to sugar butter and egg mixture, then add : 

2 cups rolled oatmeal, put 1 cup shredded raisins 
through a grinder 1 cup chopped nuts 

1 cup shredded dates 

Mix thoroughly. Drop by teaspoonfuls on a greased 
pan, and bake rather slowly. 

Date Marguerites 

Take square Avafers, crisp a little in the oven, then 
put a generous spoonful of stiff boiled frostings, to 
which has been added chopped nuts and dates, on each. 
Brown in oven or not as is liked. 

Date Nut Drops 

Mix % cup butter with U^ 1 cup chopped nuts 

cups brown sugar i^ teaspoon each of cinnamon 

A pinch of salt and soda 

3 well beaten eggs 1 teaspoon cream of tartar 
2^2 cups flour Lastly add V2 cup hot water 
1'/4 cups chopped dates Drop from a spoon 

MRS. R. H. POSTLETHWAITE, 
Coachella, Calif. 



DATE COOK BOOK 55 

Drop Cakes 

1^/^ cups brown sugar 1 cup butter 

3 eggs, well beaten Vi cup milk 

1 cup dates cut in pieces A pinch of salt 

3 cups flour 1 cup English walnut meats 

1 teaspoonful cinnamon 1 teaspoonful soda 

Mix in the usual way, and drop from a spoon in small 
lumps. 

Fruit Cookies 

1 cup sugar 2 teaspoonfuls cream of tartar 

V2 cup butter 1 teaspoon soda, flour to roll 

1 egg [1 cup v/heat flour, 1 of barley 
% cup milk and ^2 of rice may be used.] 

Filling 

1 cup chopped dates V2 cup water 

V| cup sugar 1 tablespoonful flour 

Mix flour and sugar first, then add other ingredients, 
and cook. Roll dough thin, cut, place a small portion 
of the filling on one cooky, placing another cooky on 
top. Pi^ss edges together. 

MRS. C. S. ROBINSON, 
Colorado Springs, Colo. 

Hermit Cookies, with Dates 

1 cup butter 3 eggs 

2 cups sugar 1 teaspoonful soda dissolved 
1 cup chopped dates and rai- in 2 tablespoonfuls sour 

sins mixed milk 

Add all kinds of spices to taste, and flour to roll. 
Cut out and bake. Will keep a long time. 

MRS. n. BROWN, 
Northfield, Vermont. 

Oatmeal Cakes 

1 cup rolled onts % teaspoonful salt 

\2 cup flour 1/4 cup shortening 



56 DATE COOK BOOK 



4 level teaspoonfiils baking ^,4 cup milk 
powder ^ cup chopped dates 

Mix fiour, oats, baking powder and salt. Cut in 
shortening. Add milk, and mix, forming a soft dough. 
Lastly add chopped dates. Drop into greased muffin 
tins, and bake in a quick oven. 

MES. L. J. FABIAN, 
Coachella, Calif. 

Oatmeal Cookies 

1 cup sugar 2 cups oatmeal 

% cup butter 1 teaspoonful salt 

1 cup flour 2 small eggs or 1 large one 

2 teaspoonfuls baking powder 1 tablespoonful of water 
sifted with flour 1 cup chopped dates 

Drop from a spoon in small cakes. 

MES. C. O. MOSS, 
Coachella, Calif. 

Oatmeal Drop Cakes 

1 cup sugar I toasipoonful cinnamon 
\'2 cup butter A little nutmeg 

% cup lard A little salt and cloves 

2 eggs 2 cups of oat meal 
% cup sour milk 2\o cups flour 

3 cup chopped dates 1 teaspoonful flour 

Mix and drop on a cooky sheet in small lumps about 
the size of an English walnut. Bake in a moderate 
oven. MBS. A. o. McDonald, 

Jack's Cabin, Colorado. 

Quick Nut and Date Roll 

3 fups flour li cup milk 

5 teaspoons baking powder 1 tablespoon softened Criseo 
% teaspoon salt Hi cup dates, cut 

Hi cup Criseo % cup nut meats 

1 egg well beaten 2 tablespoons sugar 

1 teaspoon cinnamon if desired 



DATE COOK BOOK 57 

Sift together dry ingredients twice, then work in 
the Crisco. Add part of the milk to the egg^ and use 
in mixing the dry ingredients to a dough, tlse more 
of the milk as is required. Turn the dough on a floured 
board, knead a little and roll into a rectangular 
sheet Ys inch thick, spread with softened Crisco, 
sprinkle over the other ingredients and roll compactly 
as in a jelly roll. Cut in pieces 1% inches long, set 
on end close together in a pan, and bake twenty 

minutes. JANET McKENZIE HILL. 

Rich Date Cookies 

1 cup sugar ^ pound walnuts, chopped 

1 cup butter 2 cups flour, and 1 teaspoon 

2 eggs soda sifted with it 
1 pound dates, cut up 

Drop in small balls three inches apart on greased 
cooky tins. 

MRS. H. T. FOTHERGILL, 

Coachella, Calif. 

War Cakes 

1 eup molasses Vj teaspoon cloves 

1% teaspoons soda M teaspoon nutmeg 

1 cup sour milk 2 cups flour 

^ cup shortening, melted 1 teaspoon salt 

1 teaspoon cinnamon 1 eup dates, cut in pieces 

Add soda to molasses and beat thoroughly, add milk, 
shortening, spice, salt and sifted flour and dates. 
Drop from a teaspoon from on a buttered sheet, and 

bake in a moderate oven. 

MBS. C. O, MOSS, 
Coachella, Calif. 



Frostings and Fillings for Cake 



Boiled Frosting 

One and one-quarter cups sugar and y^ cup hot 
water boiled together till it spins a thread. Let cool 
a minute or two, and pour slowly over the well beaten 
whites of 2 eggs, beating all the while. Flavor. Stir 
in chopped dates and nuts mixed. 

MES. A. G. PROCTOR, 
Coachella, Calif. 

Date Icing 

2 cups sugar y^ cup water 

Let stand until it dissolves. Boil slowly without 
stirring until it threads from the spoon. 

Beat whites of eggs to a stiff froth. "When syrup is 
slightly cool, stir in gradually, and beat until cold. 
Flavor to taste, and add chopped dates. 

MRS. T. M. MILLER, 
Los Angeles, Calif. 

Date Filling 

V2 pound dates, weighed after i/> cup boiling water 

stoning 1 tablespoonful lemon jnice 

1/4 cup sugar 

Mix ingredients, and cook in a double boiler until 
thick enough to spread. Dates should be put through 
a meat chopper. 

One cup means ^2 pint. Cup, tablespoon and teaspoon all 
mean level measurements. 



DATE COOK BOOK 59 

Date Orange Curd 

Juice and grated rind of 1 1 tablespoonful lemon juice 

orange ^ cup sugar 

M cup butter Yolks of 2 eggs well beaten 

Mix thoroughly, put in a double boiler over hot 
water. Stir till like thick custard. 

One-half cup of finely chopped dates stirred in. 
Orange Icing 

Grated rind of 1 orange Thicken with powdered sugar 

2 tablespoons orange juice 

MBS. J. G. NUSBAUM, 
Coachella, Calif. 



E! SALADS H 



**To make a perfect salad there should be a spendthrift for 
oil, a miser for vinegar, a wise man for salt and a mad caj) 
to stir the ingredients up and mix them well together." 

— Spanish Proverb. 



Arabian Salad 
Take the heart of a date pahn, and cut it in small 
pieces. Add to it 1 cup dates, stoned and cut in quar- 
ters. Mix with maj^onnaise, and serve on lettuce leaves. 
(The heart of the palm is considered a great deli- 
cacy among the Arabs.) MKS. c. O. moss, 

Coachclla, Calif. 

Banana Salad 

Peel as many chilled bananas as there are persons to 
be served. Split lengthwise, and put the halves to- 
gether with a filling of dates, English walnuts, and 
preserved ginger, chopped fine and moistened with 
lemon juice. 

Arrange on individual salad plates. 

Garnish with lemon and water cress. 

Serve with whipped cream mayonnaise. 

Ginger may be omitted. 

MRS. V. E. METZLER. 

Cherry Salad 

Use large white canned cherries. Remove i)its, and 
plip into each cherry a small piece of nut. 

One cup means % pint. Cup, tablespoon and teaspoon all 
mean level measurements. 



DATE COOK BOOK 61 



Pack in a dish and cover with the juice from the cher- 
ries, and let stand in a cool place until ready to serve. 
Serve five or six cherries and two or three dates cut 
in halves on lettuce. Cover with salad dressing. 

MRS. A. TAYLOR, 

Crested Butte, Colorado 

Date Salad 
Use the very large, soft, fresh dates. Remove stones, 
cut in half and place on lettuce leaves. Fill cavities 
with a mayonnaise salad dressing to which has been 
added a little whipped cream. 

Date and Apple Salad 
Equal parts of semi dry dates and good eating 
apples. Cut in pieces, and mix with salad dressing. 
Put on lettuce leaves. MRS. C. W. HYDE, 

Coachella, Calif. 

Date and Celery Salad 

1 cup celery cut in pieces % cup walnut meats 

11« cup chopped dates 

Mix and serve on lettuce leaves with mayonnaise or 
cream dressing, MRS.^C. DIEL, 

Crested Butte, Colorado 

Date and Cheese Salad 
Remove stones from dates, and fill cavities with 
Xeufchatel cheese. Arrange on lettuce leaves, and 
pour over French dressing. 

MRS. C. O. MOSS, 
Coachella, Calif. 

Date and Fig Salad 
I'se large fresh dates and fresh figs, slice, arrange 



62 DATE COOK BOOK 

on lettuce leaves, and serve with either cream or French 
dressing. MRS. T. M. MILLER. 

Los Angeles. 

Peach Salad 
Use either ripe or canned peaches. Remove the stone, 
and fill cavity with a ball of cottage cheese. On the 
top of each ball place a half date. Pour a salad dress- 
ing about, and serve on lettuce leaves. 

Fruit Salad 

3 apples 2 bananas 

2 oranges 1 scant cup dates 

1 small can pineapple 

Walnut meats and marshmallows may be added, and 
cut all in not too small pieces. 

Heap on lettuce leaves, and, just before serving, add 
a good creamy salad dressing. 

MRS. B. A. TEAGLE, 

Coachella, Calif. 

A Mixed Salad 

1 cup stoned dates (do not 1 cup diced apples 

cup up) 1 cup mayonnaise 

% cup grated cheese 3 tablespoons nut meats 

1 cup celery 1 head of lettuce 

Mix ingredients with mayonnaise, and arrange on 
lettuce leaves. MRS. R. H. postlethwaite, 

Coachella, Calif. 

Mixed Fruit Salad 

1 package of Jiffy Jell Vi cup chopped dates 

1 cup chopped nuts 1 individual bottle of Welch 's 

1 small can pineapple or Armour's grape juice 

Dissolve Jiffy Jell in grape juice, and add enough 
pineapple juice to make one pint. Pick pineapple 
apart, and put in small moulds with chopped mixture. 



DATE COOK BOOK 63 

Pour liquid over, and put on ice to chill. When cool 
place on lettuce leaves, and serve with boiled mayon- 
naise or whipped cream. 

MRS. A. O. HAYWARD, 

Thermal, Calif. 

Pineapple, Date and Cheese Salad 
Place lettuce on salad plates, then a slice of pineapple. 
Seed some dates, and cut crosswise, laying them over 
the pineapple. Next put Neufchatel cheese over dates, 
then a good creamy salad dressing. 

MRS. E. WINTERER, 

Hollywood, Calif. 

Peanut Salad 

1 cupful thinly sliced apple y^ cupful chopped roasted pea- 

1 cupful chopped celery nuts 

Mi cupful chopped dates Lettuce Mayonnaise 

Salad de Luxe 

Use marshmalloAvs, dates, apple, nuts, and green 
grapes. . 

Cut marshmallows in four pieces, seed dates and cut 
in pieces, apples cut up, and grapes seeded. 

Have equal parts of each, and mix with a fruit salad 
dressing. Place on lettuce leaves, and put dressing 
on top. MRS. E. WINTERER, 

Hollywood, Calif. 



SALAD DRESSINGS 



Cream Dressing 

1 teaspoonful salt Vi cup melted butter 
% teaspoonful unmixed mus- i/^ cup vinegar 

tard 2 teaspoonfuls lemon juice 

2 teaspoonfuls sugar A few grains of red pepper 
Yolks of 4 eggs 

Mix well in the order given, and cook in a donble 
boiler until it begins to thicken, stirring continually. 
Just before using, add 1 cup sweet whipped cream. 

MRS. M. A. LAWRENCE, 

Gunnison, Colorado. 

Delicious Salad Dressing 

One cup boiling water, 14 cup vinegar and lemon 
juice mixed. When this boils, stir in 2 tablespoons 
flour rubbed to a paste with 2 tablespoonfuls olive oil. 
Stir and cook for 5 minutes. Remove from the stove, 
pour over the well beaten yolks of 2 eggs, stir and 
mix thoroughly, then put away to cool, stirring occa- 
sionally. When cool but not cold, add % cup olive oil, 
a little at a time. 

If olive oil is not liked, melted butter may be sub- 
stituted. When using, whipped cream may be added. 
For fruit salad add a little sugar. 

French Salad Dressing 

Mix % teaspoonful salt 5 tablespoons olive oil 

Ys teaspoon pepper 2*4 tablespoons vinegar 

When using for a cheese salad, add a few drops of 



One cup means 1-2 pint. Cup, tablespoon and teaspoon all 
mean level measurements. 



DATE COOK BOOK 65 

onion juice. Beat all together until ingredients are 
thoroughly blended. 

Mayonnaise Dressing 
Put the yolks of 2 eggs in a bowl, and beat. 
Add 14 teaspoonful salt, and add gradually, drop 
by drop, 1 gill olive oil, a few drops of vinegar, and 
continue adding the oil until you have the desired 
quantity of mayonnaise. Beat in a few grains of red 
pepper. Allow about 1 tablespoonful of vinegar to 1 
gill of oil. If a lighter color is desired, allow a few 
drops of lemon juice. MRS. S. T. RORER, 

Sweet Salad Dressing 

Yolks of 2 eggs Beat well, add ^ eup vinegar 

y4: cup sugar 

Cook in double boiler, and when using, add cream, 

either whipped or unwhipped, 

MRS. R. M. CLARK, 
Los Angeles, Calif. 



SANDWICHES 



'Fame is at best an unperforming cheat, 
But 'tis substantial hajipiness to eat.'' 



Date, Fig and Nut Sandwiches 

% cup dates % cup almonds 

V2 cup figs Cream to moisten 

Put fruit and nuts through a meat grinder, moisten 
with cream, so mixture will spread nicely, and spread 
betAveen thin slices of bread. 

MKS. F. W. ZABLER, 

Coachella, Calif. 

Date and Nut Sandwiches 
Use equal parts of dates and English walnuts put 
through a grinder^ and spread between thin slices of 
bread slightly buttered. May be cut in any fancy 

shape. MRS. E. F. WILLIAMS, 

Coachella, Calif. 

Fruit Filling 
Figs, raisins, dates. Kemove the stems and stones. 
Chop fine : add a little cold water and cook to a paste. 
Add a few drops of lemon juice. 

LADIES' HOME JOUBNAL. 

Nut and Fruit Cheese Sandwiches 
This may be served in the same manner as cold meat 
for either luncheon or supper. 

One cup means 1-2 pint. Cup, tablespoon and teaspoon all 
mean level measurements. 



DATE COOK BOOK 67 

Wash y-i pound pitted prunes, mix with i/^ pound 
seeded raisins, y^ pound stoned dates and 14 pound of 
washed figs, 14 pound blanched almonds, i/4 pound of 
Brazil nuts and 14 pound pecan nuts. Put all through 
a meat chopper, first a little of the fmit, then a few 
nuts. Continue this till all of the fruit and nuts are 
chopped and mixed. Add the juice of 2 oranges, and 
knead with the hands. Pack down in baking powder 
cans, and stand aside in a cool place. 

When wanted for use, set the can in a pan of hot 
water, loosen sides and pull out. Slice thin. 

MRS. V. E. METZLER, 
Coachella, Calif. 

Orange MannaJade and Chopped Dates 

make a good filling for a sweet sandwich. 

Peanut Butter Sandwiches 
Grind dates, and put with equal part of peanut but- 
ter, mix well, and spread between slices of slightlj^ but- 
tered bread. MISS MARGARET GREEN, 

Coachella, Calif. 



PRESERVES and JAMS 



*^ Fruit, unripe, sticks on the tree. 
But fall unshaken when they mellow be. 



Cranberry Relish 

2 quarts of cranberries Rind of 2 oranges, chopped 

3% pounds of white sugar fine 

y2 pound seeded raisins 1 cup vinegar 

% pound dates Juice of 2 oranges 

One teaspoonful each of ginger, cloves and cinna- 
mon. Cook all to a marmalade, and put in jars. 

Nice with cold meats, as chicken, etc. 

Dates as a Sauce 
Stone large soft dates, put in sauce dishes and pour 
sweet cream over them. MRS. R. M. CLARK, 

Los Angeles, Calif. 

Date Butter 

1 quart dates Sugar to taste 

1 pint tart apples 

Stone dates, pare and core apples. Boil together till 
soft; then mash through a colander. Add sugar, and 
boil till thickness of apple butter. 

MRS. S. HUGHS, 
Coaehella, Calif. 

Dessert Jam 
Wash roselle buds, cover with water and let boil 
gently until juice is extracted. Pour into a jelly bag 
and let drip. Measure juice, and, to each pint, add 
nearly a pound of sugar. Boil until it just begins to 
jell, then add cut up dates and almonds, which have 

One cup means ^2 pint. Cup, tablespoon and teaspoon all 
mean level measurementa. 



DATE COOK BOOK 



been blanched and cut up coarsely. Cook just long 
enough to bring to a boil again, then pour in glasses 

and seal like jelly. MBS. V. E. metzler, 

Coachella, Calif. 

Jajn 
A nice jam may be made with two parts dates to 
one part cranberries. Cook and mash fruit, add sugar 
to taste and boil to desired thickness. 

MRS. HAZZARD. 

Peach Conserve 

2 quarts of fresh sliced % cup sliced dates 
peaches 1 cup of either Eug. walnuts 

3 oranges, sliced thin after re- or blanched almonds 

moving skins Sugar to preserve 

% cup seeded raisins 

Cut nuts and put in after it is ready for jars. 
Cook slowly until it is very clear. 

MRS. E. WINTERER, 
Hollywood, Calif. 

Primes and Dates 
Stew prunes till soft, add just a little sugar. 
Before taking from the fire, add some dates stoned 
and cut in half. Serve with cream. 

MRS. A. O. HAYWARD, 

Thermal, Calif. 

Stewed Dates 

(A good sauce for "Dainty Sponge Fruit Pudding.") 
1 cup cold water Juice and tliinly cut rind of 

Vi pound of dates i/^ lemon 

1 tablespoonful of sugar 

Allow to simmer verj* gently for 1/4 hour. Remove 
dates to a dish, and pour the syrup over them, and 
allow to cool. MR.S. H. T. FOTHERGILL, 

Coachella, Calif. 



70 DATE COOK BOOK 



Tutti-Frutti Preserves 

Wash 4 quarts purple plums. Put in a large sauce 
pan and cover with water. Cook slowly until the plums 
have softened, and separated from the stone. Remove 
from the fire, and remove all stones. Add to the plums 
equal measure of brown sugar, and cook slowly until 
a thick preserve is made. When nearly done, put in 
1 pound of seeded raisins, 1 pound of dried figs cut in 
small pieces % pound of dates cut in pieces. Stir often, 
and, when done, try as you would for jelly. 

Lastly, put in l^ pound of chopped pecans. Seal in 
jars. MBS. A. L. MEADE, 

Colorado Springs, Colo. 



MISCELLANEOUS 



'The turnpike road to people's hearts, I find, 
Lies tlirough their mouths, or I mistake mankind." 

Dr. Wolcot. 



A Good Laxative 

Put through a food chopper twice 
^ pound seeded raisins V2 pound of figs 

lii pound of dates i/4 pound senna leaves picked 

^ pound of prunes over 

After grinding, roll out on bread board 14 ^i' V2 
inch thick, and cut into inch squares. Keep in a jar. 
Dose — 1 square at bed time. 

MRS. M. McLEISH, 

Riverside, Calif. 

Dates in Cereal 
Cut dates, and cook with any kind of cereal. 
This makes the cereal sweet enough so the use of 
sugar is not necessary. MRS. A. G. PROCTOR, 

Coachella, Calif. 

Dates with Cereal 
Dates chopped, or cut coarsely in a meat grinder, 
and sprinkled, uncooked, on hot oatmeal or other break- 
fast cereal to be served with honey and cream, make 
a delicious dish. MRS. C. E. COOK, 

Indio, Calif. 

Dates with Rice 
AVash 1 cup of rice through several waters, drain, 
and s-prinkle into 2 quarts of boiling water. Let boil 

One cup means V2 pint. Cup, tablespoon and teaspoon all 
mean level measurements. 



72 DATE COOK BOOK 

twenty minutes, then pour into a sieve, and allow cold 
water to run through the rice to harden it, drain, salt, 
and place in the oven or on back of the stove in a dish 
covered with cheese cloth, until grains are dry and 
flaky. Cover with ground or chopped dates just be- 
fore taking to the table. MRS. C. E. COOK, 

Indio, Calif. 

English Chutney Sauce 

1 pound of apples 6 small onions 

1-^ pound raisins 1 ounce of white mustard 

y2 pound dates seed 

1 dozen ripe tomatoes (canned 1^4 quarts vinegar, boiled and 

ones may be used) cooled (do not have too 

2 red peppers strong) 

'/4 cup mint leaves (fresh or 1 pound of granulated sugar 
dried) 

It requires no cooking. Put everything through the 
meat grinder. Salt and sugar heated with the vine- 
gar, and let cool before pouring over rest of in- 
gredients. 

Pour all in a crock or jar, and let stand ten days, 
stirring each day, then it can be bottled. Nice with 
meats. MRS. S. S. LOGAN, 

Denver, Colo. 

^ Mu'asal of the Persian Gulf 

(One of the best preserves of that region.) 

Remove the seeds from the dates and replace with 
walnut meats. Boil down some date syrup (any other 
good syrup Avould do), add sesame seed to taste, and 
a little rose Avatcr for aroma; boil until thick, add 
dates, put over the fire, and let it come to a boil again; 
then put into glass jai's. 



DATE COOK BOOK 73 

Pickled Dates 
Dates may be pickled in vinegar just before they 
are ripe, when they much resemble pickled walnuts. 

Sweet Potatoes and Dates 

1 eup dates eut in quarters '^k cup cream 

2 cups mashed sweet potatoes A little salt and cinnamon 
(boiled in skin till done) 2 eggs well beaten 

Mix, folding eggs in last. Drop heaping tablespoons 
on pie pans, well greased, and bake one-half hour, or 
till brown. MRS. B. A. TEAGLE,. 

Coach ella, Calif. 

ey Syrian Method of Preserving Dates 

Take the largest dates obtainable, preferably before 
they are entirely ripe; peel them with a sharp knife, 
put them in a pot, add a little more than enough water 
than to cover them, boil until they are soft; then slip 
the seeds out and put an almond or pistachio, w^ith a 
clove, in the cavity; boil dates in syrup with a little 
lemon peel until the proper consistency ; take them off 
the fire and let them stand over night ; then bring to a 
boil again and put in glass jars. 

Tamarind Chutney 

2 pounds of dates 1 pound onion 

Vz pound of green ginger root ^4 pound chillies 

1 pound of layer raisins V^ pound brown sugar 

2 tablespoons of salt Vi pint vinegar 

A 14 pound jar or bottle of tamarinds 

Remove stones from tamarinds, chop fine, the same 
Avith dates; stone and cut the raisins into quarters; 
chop fine the onion ; pound the chillies and scrape and 
slice the ginger. 

Mix all the ingredients together, bottle and seal. 



El INDEX B 



Pagres 

Breads, Muffins, Waffles, Etc. - - - 9-14 

Cake 42-50 

Cookies and Small Cakes - - - - 51-57 

Cold Desserts - 25-31 

Confections 32-37 

Frostings and Fillings - - - - 58-59 

Miscellaneous 71-73 

Pies and Tarts - - - - - - 38-41 

Preserves and Jams 68-70 

Puddings - 15-22 

Pudding Sauces - - - - - - 23-24 

Salads - 60-63 

Salad Dressings - - - - - - 64-65 

Sandwiches 66-67 



Press of 

COACHELLA VALLEV SUBMARINE 

Coachella, California 



GENERAL LIBRARY 
UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA— BERKELEY 

RETURN TO DESK FROM WHICH BORROWED 

This book is due on the last date stamped below, or on the 

date to which renewed. 

Renewed books are subject to immediate recall. 



Agricc R<dff®]r®imc® Servic* 



^.fm 



ON-CIRCULATING B(IOI 



DEC 4- 1978 

REC'O IN AGRI LIB DEC 



4 1978 



iD 21-100m-l,'54(1887Bl6)476 



