Google 



This is a digital copy of a book that was preserved for generations on library shelves before it was carefully scanned by Google as part of a project 

to make the world's books discoverable online. 

It has survived long enough for the copyright to expire and the book to enter the public domain. A public domain book is one that was never subject 

to copyright or whose legal copyright term has expired. Whether a book is in the public domain may vary country to country. Public domain books 

are our gateways to the past, representing a wealth of history, culture and knowledge that's often difficult to discover. 

Marks, notations and other maiginalia present in the original volume will appear in this file - a reminder of this book's long journey from the 

publisher to a library and finally to you. 

Usage guidelines 

Google is proud to partner with libraries to digitize public domain materials and make them widely accessible. Public domain books belong to the 
public and we are merely their custodians. Nevertheless, this work is expensive, so in order to keep providing tliis resource, we liave taken steps to 
prevent abuse by commercial parties, including placing technical restrictions on automated querying. 
We also ask that you: 

+ Make non-commercial use of the files We designed Google Book Search for use by individuals, and we request that you use these files for 
personal, non-commercial purposes. 

+ Refrain fivm automated querying Do not send automated queries of any sort to Google's system: If you are conducting research on machine 
translation, optical character recognition or other areas where access to a large amount of text is helpful, please contact us. We encourage the 
use of public domain materials for these purposes and may be able to help. 

+ Maintain attributionTht GoogXt "watermark" you see on each file is essential for in forming people about this project and helping them find 
additional materials through Google Book Search. Please do not remove it. 

+ Keep it legal Whatever your use, remember that you are responsible for ensuring that what you are doing is legal. Do not assume that just 
because we believe a book is in the public domain for users in the United States, that the work is also in the public domain for users in other 
countries. Whether a book is still in copyright varies from country to country, and we can't offer guidance on whether any specific use of 
any specific book is allowed. Please do not assume that a book's appearance in Google Book Search means it can be used in any manner 
anywhere in the world. Copyright infringement liabili^ can be quite severe. 

About Google Book Search 

Google's mission is to organize the world's information and to make it universally accessible and useful. Google Book Search helps readers 
discover the world's books while helping authors and publishers reach new audiences. You can search through the full text of this book on the web 

at |http: //books .google .com/I 



a b, Google 



Schlesinger Library 
Radcliffe College 



Purchased with funds 

contiibuted by the 

Radcliffe Culinary Friends 




cbyCoogle 









a b, Google 



lyCOOSlC 



STEVENSON MEMORIAL 

COOK BOOK 



PUBLISHED BY 
Sarah Hackett Stevenson Memorial Lodging House Assodation. 

BNDOBSBD B< THS CHICAGO A330CUTIOM CfniMEKCB 
SUBSCBIPTIONS IHVZSnGATING CtMOnTTBE 

2412 Prairie Avenue 
CHICAGO 



,d by Google 






INDEX 



PlW« 



BOO mSHES 

FILIJiraS AlTD loiNas . 

PISH 



HEATS Aim FOWI. . 
pioei.es 



PDDDINaS . 



BAVOBS . 



SOUPS 

ynwia ^^QUntEl} 

TEOETABLES 

WEIOBTS AND HEAHDSES . 



Copyrlsht, 1>1> 

by 

BftTfih Hackett SteTSnMn Usmartal LodKlnc HouM AMooUtlon 



I. Google 



DEDICATED 

— TO— 

Sabah Hackbtt Stevenson 
Whose life was devoted to Service for Humanity. 



,d by Google 



Compiled hy 

ISSS. WlLLUU D. HUBUDT 



by 

THE EXECUTIVB COMMITTEB 

Hbs. Herbert D. Sheldoh 
Mbs. Cabi, S. Junob 

Mrs. a. Donald CahpbeUj 
Idjas. Sarah A. OaAHAii 
Ibis. A, 0. Allen 

Mbs. Obobge K. Spoor 
Mrs. Wh. S. Taseeb 

Mrs. Wu. Irvinq Clock 

Mbs. Edward D. Qotcht 



TRUSTEES 

Hon. Wm. B. MoKinuit, M. C. 
Hon. HsantY Horner 

Judge of Probate Court (Ez-offldo) 
Mrs. W. H. WmsLow 

President Cblcago Woman's Club (DzKifficto) 
TiSss. Georos Wateins 

Mrs. George S. Blaeesleb 
Mbs. Thoi£as D. McMickek 
Mrs. Edward L. Phelps 

Mrs. Hermann Yander Flobq 
Mrs. a. C Allen 

Mbs. Herbert D. Sheldon 



,d by Google 



FO^REWORD 



During the year 1S93 on the streets of Chicago were hundreds of 
women who had been thrown ont of employment. The genoine help- 
leesness and hopelessness of these women appealed strongly 1o the gen- 
erous heart of a wonderful woman, Dr. Sarah Hackett Stevenson, one 
time president of the Chicago Woman's Clab. She went before this elab 
and stated that there was no place in this great dty where a woman with- 
out fonds could find shelter — a woman who would work if given an 
opportunity. She demanded in the name of humanity that this, her 
club, do something at once to relieve the BitoatioiL 

Her plea bad its effect, and money was subscribed for beginning 
work. Other clubs responded to the call for help and contributed both 
furnishings and funds. And what was called the Woman's Model Lodg- 
uig House was opened to the public 

No questions were asked of those who came for shelter — the past 
was not the thing to be dealt with — only the present and future. A 
charge of 15 cents a night was made, and if they were without money 
worii was given them and they were paid for it — they, in turn, paying 
for their lodgii^. It was the principle of the organization that the 
actual handling of this money helped to preserve self-respect and that 
they might not feel themselves objects of charity. This principle has 
held through the years and no woman or child is turned from the door 
as long as there is a place to rest 

Hon. William B. MeKinley of Champaign, HI., gave as a memorial 
to Dr. Stevenson Uie present home at 2412 Prairie avenue, which will 
accommodate sixty women and about fifty children. The organization 
has become one of the strongest in the city — a delegated body of eighty- 
two members who represent women's organizations of Cook County. For 
the last few years the work has grown and broadened, until almost every 
trouble and sorrow that can come to women and children is brought to 
this door. 

The woman who is on the downward path of years, when It is so 
hard to find employment, her little money gone, often weakened both 
mentally and physically from lack of nourishment and worry — she might 
be any one's mother^-if not able to work for her lod^ng, is supplied 



, Google 



Foreword 

from tlie loan fond. Often she can retnm the small amount and 
she does not ied that she has received charity, but that the hand of a 
friend has grasped hers, and her faith in hamanity is restored. The 
yoong girl who is alone and withont money is safe from the cheap 
rooming bouses of the city. The mother with her little family, who 
has been left, by desertion or death, withont the father's protection 
comes to this home and remains nntil she can gather np the thread 
of existence once more. Often she is saved from pladng her chil- 
dren in institutionB or giving them for adoption. An average of 105 
women and children are cared for in the Lodging Honse each day. 

As time broaght the need of better facilities for the care of the chil- 
dren, the generous friend of the Institution, Wm. B. McKinley, gave the 
building at 2408 Prairie avenue for Nursery purposes. Here the chil- 
dren are cared for during the day, while the mother is seeking employ- 
ment, or otiierwise adjusting her affairs. 

A limited number of ndghborhood children are also cared for. A 
trained nurse and kindergartner are employed. Twenty-four hour feed- 
ings for bottle babies are furnished so that the little ones diet may not be 
disturbed. In this department 60 children are given daily care. The 
mother has chai^ of her family at night. Every effort is made by 
this organization to keep the mother and her children together. We 
believe that separation should be only after every other method has fuled. 

A visit to the Stevenson Memorial will interest you and yoa are most 
welcome at aH times. 

Mbs. Hebbebt D. S5ELJX>N, 
Preaident. 



,d by Google 



APPETIZERS 



"Nor love fhy life, nor Atrfe, hut while ihou livest, live weU.' 



0HZE8E TOAST OANAPE Mrs. C. A. Carscadin 

Toast small squares or rounds of bread on one side ; on the other 
side grate cheese and set in oven until cheese ia melted ; add paprika. 

CHEESE CAKAPES Mrs. E. S. Smith 

Cut bread in qaarter-inch alieea. Spread lightly with French 
mustard. Sprinkle with grated cheese and Snely chopped olives. 
Brown slightly in oven. 

SABDINE AND EOG OANAPE Mrs. C. A. Carscadin 

Toast small pieces of bread ; cover with a paste made of sardines 
and a little lemon juice, and top with the yolks of hard boiled egg pot 
through the ricer. 

SABDINE OANAPE Mrs. J. A. Kaerwer 

Two cans small sardines ; one teaspoonful catsup : one teaspoonful 
lemon juice j a dash of tabasco sance. Place slice of bread on leaf of 
lettuce then lay two small sardines across with chopped eggs, and last 
add catsnp, lemon juice and tabasco sauce. 

SABDINE OANAPE Mrs. J. A. Eaerwer 

Two cans of sardines boned ; two tablespoonfuls chopped pickled 
beets; mix thoroughly and spread on slices of bread; sprinkle cjiopped 
eggs over same and serve. 

SABDINE OANAPE Mrs. A. D. Campbell 

Mash sardiifes with silver fork, after removing tails and loose 
skin. Cover with juice of one-half lemon. Spread on thin slices of 
bread, cut either round or oblong. Cover with grated cheese and 
toast until cheese melts. Serve hot. 

SALMON AND TOUATO OANAPE Mrs. C. A. Carscadin 

On a small piece of toast put a paste of salmon, and on this a 
slice of ripe tomato with mayonnaise. 



,yCoogIe 



Appetisem 

LOBBTEB OANA^ Mis. Lotus Geyler 

Chop one-half cup of lobster meat fine and mix thoroughly with 
the white of two hard boiled eggs which has been pressed through a 
ricer. Season with salt, pepper, one teaspoonful mustard and moiBten 
with thick mayonnaise. Saute circnlar pieces of bread until brown, 
then spread with the mixture. Sprinkle over the top a thin layer of 
hard boiled yolks and lobster pressed through the ricer. 

CANAPES Mrs. Louis Oeyler 

Dip edges of toast in e^, then in finely minced parsley or chervil ; 

spread with anchovy butter and garnish with cold boiled eggs, olives 

and capers; or 

On the same foundation use tartar sauce, boned anchovies curled 

around edge and garnish with a stuffed olive or gherkin fan ; a gherkin 

fan is made by cutting it in thin slices, not quite through, and putting 

the ends together ; or 

Cover toast with tomato slices, curl anchovy in center and season 

with lemon, onion juice and paprika ; or 

Garnish with powdered egg yolk and diced whites; or 

Spread toast with anchovy butter, cover with mayonnaise mixed 

with chili sauce. 

UU8HS00M CANAPE (Hot) Miss Agnes Sieher 

Cook fresh mushrooms in butter, place on rounds of toast, spread 
with chervil or parsley butter; pipe a mound of beaten egg white, 
seasoned with salt and pepper, on each mushroom and place in hot oven 
until maringue is brown. 

PRUNE AND BACON CANAPE (Hot) Miss Agnes Sieher 

Remove stones from large prunes and olives; stnfiF olives with 
capers and bits of anchovy ; put them in the prunes, wrap each prune 
with bacon and tie with a thread. Place in hot oven until bacon is 
crisp, remove thread and place on disks of toast spread with Parmesan 
butter. 

TONGUE CANAPE Mrs. P. A. Sieber 

Spread toast with mustard cream, garnish with tiny strips of 
tongue, put a lozenge of white meat of chicken in center, on this pat 
a slice of tmffle, both marinated in fVench dressing. 

CANAPE A LA VANDERBILT Mrs. Paul Klein-ezel. 

Slice of tomatoes on lettuce ; combination of crabmeat, celery and 
pearl onions. Serve with oil mayonnaise. 

TUNNTFISH CANAPE Mrs. P. A. Sieber 

Spread toast with horseradish butter, lay on strips of tnnnyflsh 
and garnish with slices of gherkin. 



hyCOO^IC 



Appetliers 

TOHATO CANAPE Elizabeth Jennings 

Lightly toast circles of bread, cut oat with biscuit cutter, one- 
half inch thick. Cover each circle with a slice of tomato. Sprinkle 
with salt and pepper. Cover tomato with layer of caviar, garnishing 
edge with finely cut white of hard boiled egg. Instead of caviar, the 
tiny white onions (bottled) or yolk of egg finely chopped may be sub- 
stituted. Serve on plate with fancy paper doily. 

ANCHOVY PASTE CANAPE Mrs. Paul Elein-ezel. 

Slice of toast, out shape of tomato j spread with anchovy paste; 
topped with tomato slice, and yellow American cheese, browned and 
melted in oven. Toast only one side of bread. 

SASDINOLA CANAPE Urs. Frederick T. Hoyt 

Cut rounds of fresh bread and toast li^tly in oven. Cover with 
Sardinola paste, then sprinkle grated cheese over top, then brown 
slightly and serve while hot. 

CHICKEN, HAU OB TONGUE CANAPES Mrs. Louis Oeyler 

Spread toast with mustard butter, cover with minced chicken and 

garnish with olives, pickles, capers and pearl onions ; or 

Border edge of toast with mineed tongue or ham, fill center with 

chicken mixed with mayonnaise and garnish with minced trufQes. 

ANCHOVIES AND TOBIATOES 

Cover anchovies with lemon juice and paprika ; in an hour or two 
place them on tomato slices sprinkled with pulverized egg yolk and 
garnish with the egg white cut in strips. 

ARTICHOKE PONDS OB CELEBY CUPS 

Parboil six artichokes, or celery hearts cut in cups, in salted 
acidulated water, cool and marinate in French dressing ; fill caps with 
diced or shredded mixed vegetables and top with mayonnaise; or 

Goat the cnps with aspic and fill with caviar. 

Canned artichokes which are already cooked may be used. 

OUCUMBEB OBOWNS 

Cut peeled encumbers into inch lengths, scoop out centers, leaving 
a little at the bottom, fill with lobster or shrimp cream and garnish 
edge with anchovies, mixed olives, capers or pimentoes; or 

Fill with caviar mixed with lemon juice and garnish with pearl 
onions and minced cresa 

SHRIMPS AND EGGS 

Cut hard boiled eggs in halves, remove yolks and fill with shredded 
shrimps mixed with mayonnaise; garnish with powdered yolks and 
serve on lettuce leaves. 



lyCoogle 



Appetisers 



EA8TEB APPETIZEB Hre. A. J. Atwater 

Hard boil as many eggB as ytm have serricea; peel and cnt the 
whites to represent baskets, carefnily scoop out the yolks and fill the 
baskets with caviar. Toast rounds of bread, cover with the yolkx 
which have been put through ricer, stand a basket in the center of 
each and serve with a thin sUce of lemon. 

SWEETBREAD CANAPE Mrs. Louis Geyler 

Spread brown bread toast with creamed butter mixed with pate 
de foie gras; cover with cooked sweetbreads mixed with cucumber, 
pepper, gras and mayonnaise. Garnish with sweet red peppers. 

CANAPE Mrs. W. D. Hurlbnt 

Spread rounds of toast with liver sausage ; garnish with yolks of 
hard boiled egg put through ricer ; in the center place a spoonful of 
minced stuffed olives. 

SARDINE CANAPE Mrs. J. O. Sherer 

Spread rounds of toast with mayonnaise ; cover with a' slice of 
tomato; mince sardines with yolk of a hard boiled egg and finely 
chopped stuffed olives ; cover tie tomato with this mixture and place 
a spoonful of mayonnaise on top. 

CRAB FLAKE CANAPE Mrs. J. O. Sherer 

Bounds of bread toasted on one side ; spread untoasted side with 
a mixture of butter and Parmesan cheese. To a small quantity of 
cream sauce, add one cup crab flakes and heat. Put mounds of crab 
flakes on the buttered toast and put under blaze long enough to brown 
slTghtly. 

SAUSAGE AND OLIVE CANAPE Mrs. P. B. Swigart 

Toast rounds of bread on one side ; spread the untoasted side with 
mayonnaise, and on this lay a slice of summer sausage as thin as it can 
be cut ; top with minced olive and pimento in mayonnaise. 

OLIVE AND NTTF CANAPE Mrs. H. CUy Calhoun 

To one cup minced stuffed olives add one-half cup minced nut 
meats and one-half cup oil mayonnaise; mix well and spread on 
toasted bread cut in any shape you want. Garnish with a little mound 
of mayonnaise sprinkled with paprika. 

PRUrr COCKTAIL Mrs. W. D. Hurlbnt 

Shred some pineapple; add grape fruit pulp and seeded white 
grapes; cover with hot sugar and water syrup and let stand until 
cold ; flavor with sherry and serve in cocktail glasses that have been 
chilled by filling with ice an hour before time to serve. 



■ by Google 



Appetixem 

FRUrr COCKTAIL Mtb. A. Domad Campbell 

Scoop out roimda of watermelon and cantaloupe, thoroughly 
chilled ; put in glasses, sprinkle with pulverized sugar and pour over 
each two tahlespoonfuls ice cold ginger ale. Gami^ with cherry. 

STRAWBEBSY COCKTAIL Mrs. H. W. Keil 

Select large ripe berries, and if very sandy, wash them. Remove 
hulls and cnt them in halves lengthwise ; fill glasses with berries and 
pour over them a dressing made by mixing one cup of water and two 
tablespoonfals sugar, let boil three minntes; cool and add one-half 
cup claret ; let this dressing be ice cold when poured over the berries. 
Serve. 

OHEEBY COCKTAIL Mrs. J. O. Sherer 

Select the big California cherries ; take out the stones and insert 
in their places walnut, almond or hazel nut meats. Half fill the glasses 
with a cold syrup made of froit juice and a little sugar. 

OBAKGE COCKTAIL Mrs. H. F. Vehmeyer 

Remove the skin from the orange sections, place in a chilled cock- 
tail glass and pour over a aymp made of sweetened orange jnice and 
a little sherry. Decorate with sugar coated mint sprays. 

TOMATO OOOKTAn. Mrs. Magda West 

Select uniform sized tomatoes ; cut in halves lengthwise, bi each 
glass place a small, crisp leaf of head lettuce ; put one^half of a tomato 
on each and half M the glass with cocktail sauce. 

SHSIMP OOOKTAIL Mrs. A. M. Cameron 

Boil green shrimp until tender, about twenty-five minutes. Peel 
and break in halves, if large; dice celery and olives with the shrimp, 
mix well and cover with a cocktail sauce. 

SAADZNE COCKTAIL Mrs. W. D. Hurlbnt 

Drain sardines from oil in box ; remove skin, tail and bones ; break 
into small pieces; mince celery and mix with it; put in cocktail glass 
and cover with sauce made of one-half cnp catsup, jnice of one lemon ; 
tablespoonful horseradish and a little salt. 

ORABWtKAT COCKTAIL Mrs. C. A. Carscadin 

Two tahlespoonfuls crabmeat to each person. To one cup tomato 
catsup add jnice of one lemon, two tahlespoonfuls grated horseradish 
IJiinned with vinegar; a few drops of tabasco sauce and just before 
servii^, a taUespoonfoI cracked ice. 



,d by Google 



Appetixera 

GRAB FLAKE COCKTAIL Mra. J. G. Sherer 

To one cup of Japanese crab flakes mince one stalk of celery, one 
teaspoonfnl capers and mix well. Fill green pepper cases with the mix- 
ture and cover with two tablespoonfule cocktail sance. 

OLAM COCKTAIL SAUCE 

Three tablespoonfnls of tomato, or mnshroom catsnp ; three table- 
spoonfuls lemon juice; one tablespoonful horseradish; a few drops 
tabasco ; salt and paprika. Stir well and allow about two tablespoon- 
fnls of the sance for each cocktail. 

COCKTAIL SAUCE 

Mix well four tablespoonfuls tomato catsup ; one of vineifar ; two 
of lemon juice ; one of grated horseradish ; one of Worcestershire sance ; 
one teaspoonfnl salt and a few drops of tabasco. HaTe very cold 
when poured over cocktails. 

COCKTAIL SAUCE Mrs. W. L. Gregsoa 

One tablespoonful &eshly grated horseradish; one tablcflpoonful 
vinegar; half a teaspoonfnl tabasco sauce; two tablespoonfuls lemon 
juice ; one tablespoonful chili sauce ; half a teaspoonfnl Worcestershire 
sauce. Mix and let stand on ice until ready to serve. 

COCKTAIL SAUCE 

Two tablespoonfuls each tomato catsup and sherry wine; one 
tablespoonful lemon juice ; a few drops tabasco sauce ; half a teaspoon- 
fnl minced chives and a little salt. Have thoroughly chilled before 
pouring over cocktaiL 

COCKTAIL SAUCE 

Bub a bowl with a clove of garlic; two tablespoonfuls tomato 
catsup ; one tablespoonful grated horseradish ; one tablespoonful 
mushroom catsup; one teaspoonfnl lemon juice; one teaspoonfnl finely 
chopped chives ; a few drops of tabasco sance, salt and pepper. 



,dbyGoogIe 



Appetisers 



,d by Google 



ApiratUeni 



,d by Google 



SOUPS 



AU Auflum Justory attests: 
That Ttappiness for man — tlu Itungry sintur — 
Since Eve ate applet — mu«A depends on dinner. 

— ByEOH. 



OBSAH or ASPARAGUS Mn. K. T. Caiy 

Cook one btmch of asparagros twenty mintites, drain and reserve 
topf ; add two cnpa of etoak and one slice of onion minced ; boil tMrty 
minnteB. Bab through sieve and thicken with two tablespoonfols bat- 
ter and two tablespoonfola of floar rabbed together. Add salt, pepper, 
two eapa milk and the tips. 

OBEAH or BEAN SOTJP Mrs. E. D. Kenfield 

Pot one quart of milk to heat. "While it is heating, put the cooked 
beans throagh colander. Blend one tablespoonfnl batter with one of 
floor; poor over this the hot milk. Season with salt and pepper, stir 
until smooth, and then add the beans. Pea or asparagus aoap can be 
made in the same w^. 

OBEAH or CABBAGE 

Cat ap one small head of cabbage and boil antil qaite tender. 
Pat it through a colander, add one qoart of milk, salt and pepper and 
thicken with two tablespoonfols each of batter and floor rabbed 
together. 

OBEAH or OELBBT Mrs. W. D. Harlbat 

Cat foor heads celery into small pieces and boil it in three pints 
of water with one-fourth poond of lean ham minced; simmer gently 
for an hoar. Strain through a sieve and return to the pan adding one 
quart of ndlk, salt and pepper; thicken with two tablespoonfi^ of 
hotter and two tablespoonfols of floor rabbed to a paste. Serve with 
whipped cream on top. 

OBEAH or OOBN Mrs. A Donald Campbell 

Pat one can of com on to simmer with one pint of water and one 
small onion sliced; cook thirty minutes. Strain, return to the pan, 
adding one quart of milk, salt and pepper and thicken with two table- 
spoonfuls of floor and batter. Serve hot with a spoonful of whipited 
oream on top. 



■ by Google 



Soups 



OEEAM or LIMA BEANS Mrs. A. J. Atwater 

If dried beans are used, soak them over ui^t; in the moniing 
drain and add three pints of cold water; cook until soft and nm 
through a sieve. Slice tvro onions and a carrot and cook in two table- 
spoonfuk of butter ; remove vegetables, add two tablespoonfuls flonr, - 
salt and pepper, stirring until very smooth j add to this one cnp of 
milk or cream and put into the strained soup; reheat and add two 
tablespoonfuls more of butter in small pieces. 

OBEAM or UnSHEOOH SOUP Mrs. J. R Harris 

One-half pound of mushrooms, cleaned and chopped fine, add to 
four caps of chicken broth, cook twen^ minutes; thicken with two 
tablespoonfuls batter and two of flonr blended with one cup of boiling 
water. When the boiling point is reached add one cup of cream and 
the well beaten yolks of two eggs^ 

HUSHKOOM SOUP Mrs. Harry Freeman 

One-half pound muBhrooms, washed and peeled and chopped very 
fine ; cover vrith one pint of water and boil one-baU hour slowly ; one 
qoart milk scald in double boiler ; season with one tablespoonful bat- 
ter, salt and pepper; add mushrooms and let come to a boil. Just 
before serving, add finely chopped parsley. Thicken milk with one 
tablespoonfol floor mixed with cold water and pat through a 
strainer. 

OREAM OF BICE SOUP Mrs. W. I Clock 

One cup rice; one large onion; one quart milk; one tableapocoiM 
batter. BoU rice in salted water until tender, press through sieve, and 
add milk slowly, stirring constantly until all is well mixed, lastly add 
butter and season to taste. 

OREAH OF SPINAOH 

Wash and cook enough spinach to make a pint; chop it fine and 
put in a pan with two tablespoonfuls of butter, one teaspoonfol salt 
and a few gratings of nutmeg ; cook and stir it about ten minutes ; add 
three pints of soup stock, let it boil up and put it through a strainer. 
Set it on the fire again and when at the boiling point remove and add 
one tablespoonful of butter and one teaspoonful of sugar. Thicken 
with flour mixed with milk or water. 

OBEAM OF TOMATO 

Cook one quart of tomatoes with one slice onion, two teaspoonfnls 
sugar and one-fourth teaspoonful soda about fifteen minutes; rub 
through a sieve and set to one side. Scald one quart of milk and 
thicken with flour diluted with cold water; be careful that the mix- 
tore is free from lumps; cook from fifteen to twenty minutes; when 
ready to serve combine the mixtures, add bits of butter, salt and pepper 
and a spoonful of whipped cream on top. 



,d by Google 



OHOWDEB Mrs. C. A. Carscadin 

One can of corn ; one cupful of diced potatoes ; one and one-half 
inch cube of fat salt pork; one tablespoonful onion juice; four eupfula 
of scalded mUk ; two tablegpoonf ula of butter ; a teaspoonf ul of salt 
and a teaspoonful of pepper. Cut pork into amall bits and fry until 
nicely browned; add onion juice and milk and potatoes, which have 
been boiled in aalted water until tender; com, salt and pepper. Let 
all just come to the boiling point. Fnt a few rolled crackers in each 
plate and pour in chowder. Tomatoes may be added if liked. 

OLAM SOUP 

Chop fine 25 clams. Put over the fire the liquor that was drained 
from them and a cup of water ; add the chopped clams and boil half 
an hoar; season to taste with salt, pepper and butter; boU up again 
and add one quart of milk, boiling hot, and two crackers which have 
been rolled fine. Serve. 

HOOK CHICKEN SOUP L. E. Kennedy 

Two tablespoonfflls flour; one and one-half pints beef stock; two 
tablespoonfiils cream; one egg; butter size of an egg. Put butter and 
flour in a saucepan, stir until smooth; add stock little by little; just 
before taking from the Are add the cream and egg well beaten to- 
gether. Salt and pepper to taste. 

OOUKT BOUILLON Mrs. Robert Woods 

Take six nice slices of red fish, roll them in flour, season vrith salt 
and fiy in hot lard, but not entirely done, simply brown on both sides, 
and set aside. For the sauce, fry in hot lard a large onion chopped 
fine and a spoonful of flour. When brown, stir in a wineglass of 
claret, large spoonfuls of garlic and parsley chopped fine, three bay 
leaves, a spray of thyme, a piece of strong red pepper and salt to 
taste. Lastly, add yonr fried fish and cook slowly for an hour. Serve 
with toast bread. 

TOMATO BOUILLON Clara L. Scott 

Four cups tomato ; four stalks celery ; one small onion ; four cups 
water; sugar, salt and pepper to taste; boil until celery is well done. 
Strain and serve in cups with whipped cream. 

VEaSTABLE BOUILLON Mrs. W. L. Gregson 

Two table spoonfuls of sugar; one carrot; one onion; one pint 
tomatoes; three stalks celery {or salt spoon of celery seed) ; two whole 
cloves ; one salt spoon pepper ; one bay leaf ; blade of mace ; one tea- 
spoonful salt; two quarts cold water; white of one egg; small piece 
of butter. Bum sugar in kettle, add onion and brown; add carrot and 
celery, and then cold water and other ingredients except butter and 
egg. Mix thoroughly, boii, strain through two thicknesses of cheese- 
cloth, add butter and serve. 



,d by Google 



Sonpfl 

JELLIED TOUATO BOUILLON Mrs. P. J. Lanten 

Put one quart of tomatoes in pan and sinimer twenty nmmtes; 
add one-third package of gelatine and stir nntil dissolTed. Strain 
tJiroiigh a fine sieve, season witli salt, pepper and put in ice box to 
harden. Cut in cubes in bouillon cups and serve with thin slices of 
lemon. 

OBEOLE GUBIBO Mrs. Robert Woods 

Clean a nice yomig chicken, cut in pieces and fry in hot lard. 
Add a large sliced onion, a spoonful of flour, two dozen boiled shrimps, 
two dozen oysters and a few pieces of ham. Fry all together and 
when brown add a quart and a half of water, and let boil for an 
hour. Season with chopped parsley, salt and strong pepper. Jost 
before removing and whUe boiling, stir in quickly a teaspoonfol of the 
powdered file. Take away and pour in tureen. Serve hot with rice 
cooked dry. 

OBEOLE 0X7MB0 No. 2 Mrs. Bobert Woods 

Cut an old fat chicken into small pieces, chop small four onions, 
place the onions in five ounces of lard and let cook nntil well browned. 
Then put in four spoonfuls of fiour and let cook five minutes. Put in 
half gallon good rich stock, add a can of tomatoes, can of okra, season 
with salt, pepper and cayenne. Tie a small quantity of thyme, sweet 
bay leaves and parsley in a bit of eloth. Then add twenty-four large 
shrimps, half dozen hard shell crabs and twenty-four oysters. Let the 
whole cook for two hours on slow fire. Serve with rice boiled dry for 
each person. 

BBOWN SOUP Mrs. Joseph T. Bowen 

After boiling a soup bone thoroughly, add a can of tomatoes; 
strain and put it on the stove again ; brown fiour enough to thi<d£en 
it to the consistence of cream ; add a lemon or two (sliced very thin 
and boiled a few minutes iu water) ; one teaspoonful each of ground 
cloves; cinnamon and allspice. Just before you wish to serve add the 
hard boiled yolk of an egg for each person ; chop the whites and put 
in the. tureen. 

SPLIT PEA SOUP Mrs. W. D. Hnrlbnt 

Wash well a pint of split peas and cover with cold water, adding 
one-third teaspoonful of soda; let them remain in this over nig^t to 
swell. In the morning put them in a kettle with a close fitting top; 
pour over them three quarts of cold water, adding half a pound of 
lean ham or bacon cut into slices or pieces; also a teaspoonful salt, 
a little pepper and a stalk of celery cut fine. When the soup begins 
to boil, skim the froth from the sart&ce. Cook slowly from three to 
four hours, stirring occasionally until the peas are all dissolved. 
Strain through a colander and leave out meat. It should be quite 
thick. If not rich enough, add a small piece of butter. Serve with 
small squares of toasted bread cut up and added. 



,dbyGoo<^Ie 



Soups 

POTATO SOUP Anna Moss 

Peel and slice five mediam sized potatoes, cook in boiling salted 
water; when soft put tlirougli a strainer. Scald one quart of milk 
with one small onion sliced, remove onion and add milk slowly to 
potatoes. Melt three tablespoonfuls butter, add two tablespoonfuls 
of flonr, one teaspoonfol salt, one-qnarter spoonful celery salt and 
dash of white pepper and stir ontil thoroughly mixed, add to the boil- 
ing soup; cook one minute, strain and serve; sprinkle with chopped 
parsley. 

HEAT J2LLT L. B. Kennedy 

Two ponnds of lean beef; one-half gallon cold water; six whole 
eloves; one-half box gelatin soaked in one-half cnpfol of water for 
fifteen minutes; six black pepper corns; one tablespoonfol salt; two 
tablespoonfuls sherry; the juice of one lemon. Out the beef into the 
water, add peppercorns, cloves and salt and let simmer slowly four 
hotirs. Add the gelatin and strain j to this add lemon juice and pour 
into a mold. When cold it will slice nicely. 

BIOE AND TOHATO SOUP 

Bon to a pulp, in a quart of water, twelve ripe tomatoes which 
have been peeled and cut up. Strain, place on stove and add two 
tablespoonfuls butter mbbed into two tablespoonfuls of flour ; add salt, 
pepper and sugar to taste, onion juice and minced parsley. Cook ten 
minutes and stir in one cup of cooked rice, 

ONION SOUP Mrs. E. P. Bowen 

Slice and boil until tender eight medium sized onions; have a 
strong soup stock ready ; add the onions and season to taste. In each 
plate place a piece of toast and grate Parmesan cheese over it, then 
slowly add the soup tiie heat of which will melt the cheese. Serve. 

OXTAIL SOUP Mrs. H. J. Keil 

One nice meaty oxtail; two medium sized carrots; two onions; 
aae small turnip; two-thirds teaspoonfol Kitchen Bouquet; one bay 
leaf; four peppercorns; two or tlu«e celery leaves; dash of pepper; 
salt to taste. Wash and cover oxtail with water, add carrots cut in 
cubes. Oat onion and turnip fine and put in a muslin bag with b^ 
leaf, peppercorns and celery leaves. This will leave only the carrot 
and meat in soup for table. Bring to a boil and siiomer for about 
four hoars. Add pepper, salt and Kitchen Bouquet and serve. 

PEA PUBEE Mrs. S: P. E. Hafer 

Boil one can of peas with a half a pound of salt pork unto very 
soft Strain and squeeze throu^ a colander. Add one pint of soup 
stock and (me-half pint of cream. Salt and pepper to taste. 8em 
with whipped cream. 



,d by Google 



Soups 

DUCHESS SOUP 

One quart of milk; three slices of onion; one tablespoonful floor; 
one tableepoonfol batter; three tablespoonfolB grated cheese; two 
egg yolks beaten; one teaspoonful Kitchen Bouqnet. Simmer onion 
in bntter, but do not brown ; add floor and milk and stir until smooth, 
then add the cheese and Kitchen Bouquet. Just before taking up add 
the yolks of egge. Whip some cream and put one teaspoonful in each 
cup. 

SATISFAOITON SOUP AHce Clock. 

One cup navy beans ; four slices bacon ; one No. 2 can of tomatoes ; 
one small onion; one lerel tablespoonful salt; one-fonrth tablespoonful 
black pepper. Soak navy beans over night, in morning put beans on 
to boil with a pinch of soda in water. "When they come to a boil, pour 
off this water, return to stove, cover with clear water, add onion and 
bacon, let boil until tender. When tender strain through sieve, being 
sure to press all through, as far as possible. Next add the strained 
tomatoes and seasoning and lastly, thin with cream or milk to con< 
sisteney desired. 

SCOTCH BROTH Mrs. C. A. Bowman 

Cut mutton into small pieces and let it stew all day. Boil one- 
fourth pint pearl barley in a little water until tender; strain it dry, 
chop fine two large onions and turnips and put with l^e barley and 
meat into a stew pan. Strain the broth into it, also the water from 
the barley and let it boil one and a half hours and skim. Season 
with salt and pepper. 



,d by Google 



Soups 



,d by Google 



a b, Google 



FISH 



"The fish called the flounder, perhaps you may know, 
Has one aide for use and another for show; 
One side for the public, a delicate broum, 
And one thai is white, which he always keeps down." 



FISH DEUOHT Mra. William Blanchard 

Mis enoagli tmcooked white fish or Halibut to make two caps; 
add half a cup soft bread crumbs; three-fourtha cup cream. Press 
tluvngh a colander, season with salt, pepper, lemon juice, and a little 
Worcestershire sauce. Fold in carefully beaten whites of the two 
eggs. Turn into buttered molds and steam one hour. Serve hot with 
HoUandaise s&nce. 

STEAMED HALIBUT, LOBSTEB SAUCE Mrs. W. B. McOhee 

Butter a steamer and place a thick slice of Halibut steak on it; 

put over hot water and cook until done. Bemove to hot platter and 

pour over it hot lobster sauce. 

Lobster Sauce : Bemove the meat from a fresh lobster, about one 

and one-half pounds; make a rich cream sauce, add the lobster and 

pour over Halibut. ^ 

BAKK) HALIBUT 

One thick slice of Halibut; one small onion; one tablespoonftil 
batter; one saltspoonful pepper; one teaspoonful Kitchen Bouquet; 
one level teaspoonful salt; one-half cup water. Chop the onion and 
put in bottom of baking pan. Put Halibut on top and dost with salt 
and pepper. Pour over the water to which has been added the Kitchen 
Bouquet, and then add the melted batter. Bake in rather quick oven 
until nicely browned. Garnish with parsley and alioes of lemon and 
poor over sauce left in pan. 

FISH SOUFFLE Mrs. W. L Qoek 

One cup baked fish ; four eggs ; one cup bread crumbs ; one heap- 
ing tableapoonfol butter. Mix flaked fish and fresh bread or crombs, 
place in greased baking dish, pour over the beaten eggs and milk; 
the seasoning should be added to the fish and bread crumbs before 
placing in dish. Add the butter in small pieces over the top of the 
dish, before placing in oven. Bake in hot oven thirfy minntea 



Google 



FISH WITH TOMATO SAUCE Mrs. Bobert Woods 

Bake a well selected fish in oven after seasoning with pepper and 
salt. When done serve with sauce made as follows : 

Pour a quantity of sweet oil in a saucepan. When hoty add two 
sliced onions and when they are cooked, add flour and let onions 
brown in same. Strain a can of tomatoes and add thereto a small 
glass of good wine, and a box of mushrooms chopped fine. Let sauce 
cook, after adding a boquet of thyme, sweet bay, cloves, green onions 
and garlic. Use red pepper only ; and pour over baked fi^ and serve. 

CODFISH BALLS Mrs. C. A. Jennings 

One and one-half oupfuls of raw codfish picked up; three cup- 
fuls of raw potatoes, diced; one egg; butter size of a walnut; boil 
potatoes and fish together until potatoes are soft. Mash, and add 
pepper and a dash of salt, butter and unbeaten egg and beat until 
Ugfat and thoroughly mixed. Shape roughly in a tablespoon and fry 
in smoking fat. 

OOD FISH BALLS BeUe Shaw 

Half pint measure of raw potatoes, cut in small pieces; one-half 

pint cod, picked to smalt pieces. Boil together until potatoes are 

tender; pour off water and mash very fine; add one egg, one table- 

spoonful cream and dash pepper. Form on a spoon and &y in hot lard. 

Lay on brown paper to absorb grease. Serve vritb cream sauce if 

desired. 

Sance: One tablespoonful butter; one tablespoonful fiour; cook 

but do not brown. Add to this a pint boiling milk, a pinch salt, and a 

few pieces of cod to flavor. 

CODFISH PUFF Mrs. Grant Beebe 

Two cups shredded codfish ; one cup milk ; one tablespoonful flour 
for thickening; three eggs. Put milk on stove to warm, then add 
thickening, then codfish that has been soaked and drained, then the 
beaten yollcs. Lastly fold in the whites beaten. 

BROILED FINNAN HADDIE Mrs. W. D. Hurlbut 

Wash fish well ; lay in dripping pan, cover with fresh water and 
allow to stand an hour. Drain, place on fish plank, brush vritb melted 
butter and put under blaze, not too close, and broil for twenty minutes, 
or until a nice brovra. Take out plank, surround the edge with mashed 
potatoes, decorate with hard boiled eggs and sprigs of parsley. 

FRIED SHAD BOE Mrs. W. R. McQhee 

Boil shad roe for fifteen minutes in acidulated salted water; re- 
move, cover with cold water and let stand for a few minutes; dry 
thoroughly and roll in cracker crumbs, egg and again in crumbs and 
fry. Garnish with lemon slices. 



,dbyGoo<^Ie 



STUFflNO FOB TSSB Urs. Max ManermBim 

One cup cracker cmmbs; one saltspoon salt; one saltspoon pep- 
per; one saltspoon chopped onions; one saltspoon parsley; one tea- 
spoonful capers ; one teaapoonfnl chopped pickles ; small piece of butter. 

SHAD ROE, BAKED— CASSEROLE Mrs. Louis Geyler 

Boil roc in salted water (aeidnlated) five minutes, drain, and cover 
with cold water five minutes ; drain and wipe dry. Brush with melted 
butter, dust with salt and pepper and paprika. Put in casserole, pour 
on one-half eup stock and one-fonrth cup heat sherry or water and 
bake twenty minutes. Add to sauee two or three yolks mixed with 
one cup cream and strain over roe. Or pour over thin tomato sauce. 

FR008 LEGS A Z^ POTTLETTE Mrs. W. D. Hurlbnt 

Trim and clean the frogs legs ; boil three minutes. Cover with a 
sauce made as follows: Three tablespoonfuls butter and three of 
flour rubbed together; add one-half cup of cream and one cup of 
chicken stock; season with salt and pepper and just before serving 
add the yolks of two eggs, well beaten, and one-half tablespoonfnl 
lemon juice. Very nice served in a chafing dish. 

FROGS LEGS, TARTASE SAUCE 

Trim and wipe the dedred number of frogs legs; sprinkle with 
salt and pepper, dip in fine cracker crombB, beaten egg and again in 
crumbs. Fry three minutes in deep hot fat. Drain and serve at once 
with tartare sauce. 

SALMON EN CASSEROLE Mrs. George D. MiUigan 

One pint milk ; three tablespoonfuls flour ; stir until smooth ; cook 
and remove from fire ; add one-half cup butter. "When cool add two 
well beaten e^s, pepper and ftalt and bake in casserole, putting a 
layer of sauce, then sabuon and finish with bread crumbs on top. 
Bake about thirty minutes. 

MOULDED SALMON Mrs. C. A. Bobinson 

One can of salmon; three e|^; one-h^ pint milk; chopped 
parsley, pepper and salt and a little Worcestershire sauce. Chop the 
salmon very fine, first picking away all skin and bone ; beat the eggs, 
add the seasoning, mix thoroughly and steam two hours in a mould. 

SALMON CROQUETTES Mrs. George Lougwell 

One pound of salmon; one cup cream; two tablespoonfuls butter; 
one tablespoonful four; three egga, seasoning. Chop the salmon fine, 
make a cream sauce of the butter, fiour and cream; add the salmon 
and seasoning ; boil one minute ; stir in one well beaten egg and remove 
from fire. When cold, make into croquettes; dip in cracker emmbs, 
then in beaten eggs, again in cracker crumbs and fry in deep fat 



lO' 



.^Ic 



OOLD 8ALH0H LOAT Mrs. B. E. P. Kline 

One pound can of salmon; one-half tablespoonfol each of sngar 
and flour; one tablespoonfal melted hotter; one teaspoonfol salt; one- 
half teaapoonfnl mostard ; dash of cayenne ; yo^ of two eggs, beaten ; 
three-fonrtha cup milk or cream ; one-fonrth cup vinegar. Pick salmon 
over and pnt with other ingredients (after carefully blending them) 
into double boiler; cook until eggs are done; remove from fire and 
add three tablespoonfnls of gelatin, softened in cold water. Mould, 
chill, and serve with cucomber sauce. 

Sance : One-half cup cream, beaten ; season with salt, pepper and 
a little onioQ juice. Add two tablespoonfnls vinegar and one encumber 
chopped fine and drwned as dry aa possible. 

SALMON EN SUSFBISE Mrs. T. D. HcMicken 

Moisten one cup flaked salmon with butter sauce, pinch minced 
parsley ; one hard boiled egg, chopped fine. Line individual buttered 
molds with mashed potatoes. Fill centers with fish, cover with potato. 
Turn out carefully, roll in egg crumbs and fry brown. Garnish with a 
slice of hard boiled egg on top of mold and parsley, 

SMOKED STURGEON AND SCRAMBLED EGGS 

Mrs. "W. D. Hurlbut 
Mince one-half pound smoked sturgeon ; beat six eggs nntil light, 
add sturgeon ; have butter heated in a skillet, add the mixture and 
scramble. Serve with toast points. 

EGG SAUCE FOR FISH Mrs. Maxwell 

Cook together a tableapoonful each of butter and flour; pour 
upon this a cupful of sweet milk and stir until thick and smooth. Sea- 
son with salt and white pepper, add one hard boiled egg chopped fine ; 
find one raw egg beaten light. Stir jost long enough for the sauce to 
return to the boil and serve. 



,d by Google 



ab,Goo<^le 



abiGoogle 



SHELL FISH 



"I loiped away the weeds and foam, 
I fetched my sett-bom treasures home." 



OYSTS& SATTSAQE Mrs. W. L. GregsoD 

One-half pound of veal; one pint oysterB; one-fourth pound of 
suet ; all chopped fine. Add enough rolled cracker to make into pat- 
ties ; dip in egg and fry in butter. 

OYSTER CROQUETTES Mrs. Frank Maccojr 

Two seta of calf brains, stewed in salt water; one qjiart ojstera, 
stew in their own liquor until they curl, cut in small pieces. Qiop 
brains and mix with oysters; two tablespoonfuls melted butter; a few 
drops onion juice; four tablespoonfuls bread crumbs; one-half eup 
cream. If too dry add a little of the oyster juice. Bake in shells. 

DEVILED OYSTERS 

One pint of oysters, seasoned with salt and pepper, stiffened with 
cracker dust to hold shape, place in oyster shells, pour over melted 
butter. Put shells in a dripping pan and bake in a quick oven to a 
light brown. 

OBEAMED OYSTERS IN CHAFINQ DISH Mrs. Marqnis Began 

Put large tablespoonful of butter in chafing dish, when melted 
add two tablespoonfuls of sifted four, mix thoroughly, then add juice 
strained from one quart of oysters, cook until thickness of cream, 
constantly stirring, then add oysters, cook until edges curl, season to 
taste with salt and pepper, serve on toasted crackers. 

OYSTERS SCALLOPED WITH CELERY Blanch EUis Layton 

One quart of bulk oysters, one-half dozen stalks of celery, cut 
into one-half inch pieces. Drain the oysters, reserving the Uqaor. 
Cover bottom of ba^g dish with crumbs of bread or crackers, then a 
layer of the oysters, with a generous dash of salt and pepper and 
plenty of butter. Over this put a lawyer of the celery, fill the dish 
in this way and pour over one cup of the oyster liquor. On top sprinkle 
a thick layer of the crumbs, adding butter in small pieces. B^e one 
hour in a moderate oven. 



,d by Google 



0T8TEB F[E 

Une a Bhallow pudding pan with light pastry, put in OTsten, 
milk, hntter, ealt and pepper, bake in a very qnich oven 20 minntes ; 
one pint of oysters, one pint milk, one tahlespoonfol butter, aalt and 
pepper to taste. 

ROAST OTBTEBS ON THE HALF SHELL Mrs. W. D. Hnrlbnt 

Scrub the shells of live oysters until free from sand; place in 
dripping pan in a hot oven and roast until shells open; take off the 
top ^eU, being careful not to spiU the juice in lower shell; seire in 
the shell with side dish of melted butter, 

PANNED OTSTEI^ Mrs. H. Clay Calhonn 

Clean one pint of oysters and drain from their liquor. Pat in a 
stewpan and cook until oysters are plump and edges begin to curl. 
Shake pan to prevent oysters from adhering to pan. Season witii salt, 
pepper and two tablespoonfuls butter and put over small slices of 
toast. Garnish with parsley. 

OYSTEB FRICASSEE Mrs. Arthur M. Lucius 

Clean one pint of oysters, heat oyster liquor to boiling point, strain 
through double thickness of cheese-cloth; add oysters to liquor and 
cook until plump, Bemove oysters with skimmer and add enough 
cream to oysters to make one cupful. Melt two tablespoonfuls butter 
and add two of flour ; then poor on gradually the hot liquor ; add salt, 
paprika, one teaspoonful &iely minced parsley and one egg slightly 
beaten. Pour over oysters and serve. 

BROILED OYSTERS Mrs. W. D. Hurlbut 

Clean oysters and dry on a towel. Dip in butter, then in cracker 
crumbs seasoned with salt and pepper ; place in a buttered wire broiler 
and broil until juice runs; turn and cook other side. Hace on toast, 
mince celery over the oysters and pour over all a thin cream sauce. 

BROILED OYSTERS Mrs. W. K. MitcheU 

Select large oysters ; wrap a thin slice of bacon around each, fasten- 
ing with a toothpick; place in a broiler, which in turn is put in a 
dripping pan to catch Uie drippings ; broil until bacon is brown and 
crisp, taming to cook other side. Garnish with parsley. 

OYSTERS IN BROWN SAUCE 

One pint oysters; one-fourth cup butter; one-fourUi cup flour; 
one cupfal oyster liquor; one-half cup milk; one teaspoonful Eitchea 
Bouquet; one-half teaspoonful salt; one-eighth teaepoonfol pepper. 
Parboil and drain the oysters. Brown the butter, add the flour and 
stir until well blended, add oyster liquor, mil k , Kitchen Bouquet, salt, 
pepfter and oysters. Serve in patty cases or ramekins. 



zKbyCoogle 



OASSEBOLE OF OTBTEBS Miss Agnea Sieber 

Line ramebins or large casserole witli mineed chicken, seasoned 
well, and moistened with a little cream. Fill with parboiled oysters 
out in pieces, and mushrooms sliced sauted in butter and mixed with 
the following sauce: Cook three tablespoonfols salt pork fat with 
three of flour, add salt, cayenne, nutmeg and parsley; also thyme and 
mushroom parings. Cook a moment, add one and one-half cups 
white stock, and simmer one hour, skimming often. Strain, add about 
one-half cup hot cream or enough to make sauce right consistency. 
Add four drops lemon juice. Cover with more chicken, sprinkle with 
buttered crumbs, and brown in oven. 

OTSTEBS AND HAGABONI Mrs. H. Clay Calhoun 

Boil macaroni in salted water, drain through a colander. Drain 
oysters until the liquor is all off. In a casserole put alternate layers 
of macaroni, oysters and a thick cream sauce, until dish is filled; 
sprinkle top with grated cheese and bake about half an hour. 

OMELETTE AUX HUITBES Mrs. B. Woods 

Drain two dozen oysters. Have ready some hot lard and throw 
them in. Let fry until they begin to curl, then spread over them four 
well beaten eggs seasoned with salt and pepper and stir all together 
until done. Serve hot. 

FBIED SCALLOPS 

Clean one quart of scallops, turn into a saucepan and cook until 
they begin to shrivel; drain and dry between towels. Boll in fine 
cracker crumbs seasoned with salt and pepper, dip in egg and again 
in crumbs and fry in deep fat. Garnish with slices of lemon dipped 
in parsley. 

JAMBALAYA OF BIOE AND SHBIHPS Mrs. Bobert Woods 

Boil two dozen of large shrimps; when cold, peel and set aside. 
Fry in hot lard a chopped onion and a cupful of rice washed in cold 
water. Let the onion and rice fry well, add the shrimps, stirring 
constantly. When browned, add enough water to cover the whole. 
Season with salt and pepper, a bay leaf, thyme and chopped parsley. 
Let boil slowly, and add water until the rice is well cooked. When 
done, let it dry and serve hot. 

SHBIMP FBICASSEE Mrs. Ada Woods 

Boil the desired quantity of shrimp and set aside. For sauce fry 
in three tablespoonfuls bacon drippings a large onion, chopped fine; 
when browned, add three tablespoonfuls flour and blend; add slowly 
about a quart of water, stirring constantly; when smooth add the 
shrimp; season with a bay leaf, thyme, a tablespoonful chopped parsley 
and a clove of garlic, minced. Let cook slowly until ready to serve. 
Boil rice until dry and creamy and serve with the above. 



..by Google 



8HBIMF RAMIKIN8 Mrs. Max MaQennann 

One pint of shrimp; one tablespoonfnl flour; one tableapoonfol 
butter; one tablespoonfnl catsnp; one tablespoonfnl eream; one cop 
hot aonp stock; two yolks eggs; salt, cayenne pepper and grated 
onion. Heat butter, add flour, then other ingredients. Cook until 
smooth, then add shrimp. fHll the ramikins with mixture and cover 
with cracker cmmbs and butter. Bake six minutes. 

SHRIMP WIOGLE Mrs. "Willard Brown 

Make a rich eream sauce ; add one can of shrimp and one can of 
green peas ; allow to cook until all is well heated, serve on toast. 

CRAB A LA CREOLE 

One can Japanese crab meat; four tableapoonfnls shortening; two 
green peppers ; one lai^e onion ; three tomatoes ; one cupfal milk ; two 
tableapoonfnls flour ; one teaspoonful Kitchen Bouquet, one teaspoonfnl 
salt, one-fourth teaspoonful pepper. Make a white sauce by melting 
half the shortening, add flour and when well mixed slowly add milk ; 
stir until creamy, add salt and pepper. In another saucepan melt the 
other half of shortening, when hot, fry onion and pepper, minced, for 
ten minutes. Then add tomatoes, cut up, and when tender add 
Kitchen Bouquet and crab meat and stir slowly into the white sauce. 
When well mixed, pour over buttered toast and serve. 

LOBSTER A LA BOUQUET 

One good sized lobster ; two ounces butter ; one small onion ; one 
can mus^ooms; one pint boiling water; one teaspoonful Kitchen 
Bouquet ; one teaspoonfnl salt ; one saltspoonful pepper. Put the but- 
ter and chopped onion in saucepan, cook until onion is brown, then 
add two tablespoonfuls flour and the water. When boiling add salt 
and pepper. Strain and add mushrooms and E^tchen Bouquet. Sim- 
mer for ten minutes then stand over hot water. Cut lobster in good 
sized pieces, put into sauce, cover the pan closely, let stand ten min- 
utes longer over hot water and serve. 



rfbyGoOgle 



a b, Google 



abiGoogle 



MEATS AND FOWL 



"Some Tiae meat and canna eat, 
And some wad eat that want it. 
But we hoe meat and we can eat, 
And, so tlte Lord be iAoTifc it." 



BEEFSTEAK BOLL Mrs. J. E. Kelly 

Use a large slice of round steak cut one-half inch thick. Make a 
dressing by mixing together: One cupful grated breademmba, two- 
thirds teaspoonful salt, one well-beaten egg, one tahlespoonful melted 
butter, one small onion, grated, a few daahes of paprika and a half 
teaspoonful powdered sweet herbs. Lay the steak on a board, sprinkle 
with salt and pepper, spread thickly with the dressing and roll up. 
Wind with soft cord to hold in place. Put three tablespoonfuls of 
pork fat in a frying pan and when very hot, dredge the roll with 
flour and brown it quickly on all sides. Place meat in kettle that has 
a tight fitting cover. Meanwhile, add to the fat in the pan two slices 
of minced onion, and one tahlespoonful flour. Stir until very smooth, 
pour in a cupful of stock (or hot water) and when the gravy boils, pour 
over the roll with a pint of strained tomato. Season to taste with 
salt and pepper, cover the kettle closely and as soon as the contents 
boil, place where it will simmer for about two hours. When cooked, 
remove the strings, and serve on a heated platter, with the strained 
gravy poured over it, 

HAMBUSQEB POT DDTHEB Mrs. Antonio Sterba 

"With two pounds hamburger steak, mix well one cup raw rice 
(wash well) ; one medium sized onion, chopped ; season and make into 
balls. Line bottom of a pot with small pieces of suet; when this is 
melted, place meat balls in the pot, cover with water, and cook until 
rice is about done. Add one can of tomatoes (quart can). A half 
hour before serving, peel enough medium-sized potatoes to circle the 
platter to be used. Place these on top of tomatoes. When potatoes 
are done, arrange them around the outside rim of the platter with 
the meat balls in the center, and pour over the meat enough gravy for 
first serving. Remainder of gravy may be used on table in a casserole 
or gravy dish. Care must be used in measuring the rice — too much 
will cause the balls to fall to pieces. One advantage of this dish is 
that it may be prepared the day before, or the morning before serving, 
with the exception of the potatoes. 



.by Google 



Meat! and Fovrl 

OALVES* HEAKT8 STUFFED AKD BRAISED Mrs. W. B. McOhee 
Remove veins, arteries, and blood clots, wash, staff and sew. 
Sprinkle with salt, pepper, roll in flour and brown richly in hot drip- 
ping. Place in Dutch oven or in one of the small vessels in fireless 
cooker. Half cover with boiling water, sorronnd with six slices carrot, 
one stalk celery, broken in pieces, one onion sliced, two sprays parsley, 
a bit of bay leaf, three cloves and one-half teaspoonful peppercorns. 
Cover closely and bake slowly two or more hours basting often if 
cooked in Dntch oven. If necessary, add more water. Kemove hearts 
to serving platter, strain and thicken the liquor with flour diluted 
with water. Season with salt, pepper and one-half teaspoonful Kitchen 
Bouquet 

LUVOHEOK BEEF Mrs. I. A. Wilcox 

One cup or more of eold cooked beef chopped ; one cup of bread 
crumbs ; season with salt, pepper and butter. Place in baking dish 
and cover with buttered bread crumbs. Pour milk in dish until you 
can just see it. Bake in oven till light brown on top. Can use any 
.kind of cold cooked beef, as steak, roast, or boiled beef. If you have 
a few cold mashed potatoes, put them through ricer on top of meat 
to form upper crust. Dot wi^ butter and let brown. 

POT BOAST Mary S. Yanzwoll 

Round steak one and one-half inches thick. Salt and pepper. 
Pound a cup of flour in, on both sides. Sear both sides in melted fat, 
and butter. Put in baking dish and cover with water. Cook in oven 
two and one-half hours. 

SPANISH STEAK Mrs. W. H. Hart 

One and one-half pounds round steak, ground; one and one-half 
pounds of pork steak, ground ; one heaping cupful bread crumbs ; one 
cupful canned or fresh tomatoes ; two green peppers, minced ; one-half 
cupful minced onion; one egg; two teaspoonfuls salt. Mix all together 
and bake forty-five minutes in flat cake. 

BRAISED BEEF Mrs. I. S. Blackwelder 

Bound steak about three inches thick (about two pounds) ; place 
in a hot skillet and turn so that it is seared on both sides, to prevent 
escape of juices. In a covered baking pan make a bed of chopped 
vegetables (potatoes, turnips, carrots, onions, etc.) ; season well. FUee 
upon it the beef with enough water to keep the mess steaming for 
four hours. Cover tight. 

MOTHER'S BEEF LOAF Mrs. F. E. Lyons 

Three pounds round steak, ground; three eggs; two-thirds cup 
cracker crumbs; three teaspoonfuls ground sage; two teaspoonfuls 
salt; one teaspoonful pepper. Mix together thoroughly and bake in 
a 5xl0-inch bread pan, from one to one and one-half hours. 



..CeKH^Ic 



Ueat« and Fowl 



HEAT FIX 

Batter an earthen bating diali and line to the depth of one and 
one-half inches with hot mashed potatoes, season with finely chopped 
chives (one tablespoonful to two cnps mashed potatoes). Fill center 
with chopped left-over cold beef, veal or chicken. Moisten with brown 
or cream sance, to which add one-half tablespoonful minced parsley 
and onion juice. Cover with a layer of the potato mixture, make 
several openings in top of pie and brush top over with beaten egg, 
diluted with milk. Bake in hot oven until heated through and well 
browned. Serve hot in baking dish. 

BBAISED LABDED LIVEK Mra. W. B. McGhee 

Skewer, tie in shape (if necessary) and lard the upper side of 
calf's liver. Place in a deep pan with renmants of lardoons; season 
with salt and pepper ; dredge with flour. Surround with one-half each 
carrot, onion, celery, cut in dice; one-half teaspoonful peppercorns, 
six cloves, bit of bay leaf and two cups brown stock or water. Cover 
closely and bake slowly two hours, uncover the last twenty minutes of 
cooking. Remove from pan, serve with the French onions or pour 
around brown sauce. 

HAMBURG STE^ Sue C. Woodman 

Mix one egg and a little salt and pepper; make into balls and 
bake in closed pan qnickly. 

POT BOAST Mrs. C. S. Junge 

Procure a Boston cut of roast of beef; brown a minced obion in 
skillet with butter and bacon fat ; in this brown all sides of the roast. 
Bemove the roast and in the fat stir two tablespoonfuls of flour and flll 
skillet nearly full of hot water. Season this gravy well with salt, 
pepper, bay and garlic and pour over roast in casserole. Place a few 
slices of tomato on top or pour in a cup of strained tomato ; place some 
carrots around the roast and put in cooker for at least four hours. 

BRAIN PATTIES Mrs. E. Iglehart 

Plunge the calf's brains into boiling water for three minutes, 
remove from water and pick off the dark muscles, roll into cracker 
dust or bread crumbs in small patties and drop into hot fat. Salt 
and pepper. 

ROAST BEEF SOUFFLE Mrs. H. S. Hart 

One tablespoonful butter melted in sauce pan, one tablespoonful 
of flour added and well mixed, one eup milk. Chop beef, or any kind 
. of cold meat quite fine and add to milk after it has thickened; salt 
and pepper to taste. Then stir in the yolks of three eggs, cook slightly, 
cool, add beaten whites of eggs. Put in greased dish and bake about 
half an hour. Is nice served with tomato sauce or peas. About one 
and one-half cups of the chopped meat for the above. 



hyCOOgIC 



Meats and Fowl 



MEAT LOAF Mrs. L. E. Brown 

Two pounds of Tonnd steak ; one pound fresh pork ; four tomatoes ; 
three pimentoea; two eggs; fonr crackers, rolled; salt, pepper and 
paprika. Mix altogether; bake io bread pan two hours in moderate 
oven. Sauce :. One and one-half tablespoonfuls butter, floor and milk. 
Season with liquid from meat. 

TOUGH STEAKS Mrs. E. S. Smith 

Pour a mixture of two tablespoonfuls of vinegar ; and one of olive 
oil over a steak. Let stand several hours before broiling. The result 
is delicious. 

VEAL CROQUETTES Belle Shaw 

Two pounda veal, chopped fine; one teaspoonful chopped para- 
ley; two eggs, hard boiled and chopped; salt and pepper, to taste. 
Soak enough bread crumbs, and add to mixture; form balls. Boll in 
egg and cracker crumbs and fry in deep fat. 

BONED AND STUFFED LEG OF LAMB Mrs. H. L. Baumgardner 
Order a leg of lamb boned at the market. -Make a stuffing as for 
chicken. Put in roasting pan with a small sliced onion, one-fourth cup 
each of turnip and carrot, season with bay leaf and parsley. Add three 
capfals of hot water, salt and pepper. Cook slowly until done. Serve 
with Currant Jelly Sauce. 

Currant Jelly Sauce: To the regular brown gravy you would 
make with roast, add one-half cupful of currant jelly which has been 
beaten and a little lemon juice ; well stirred together and let all boil 
a miuQte or two. 

LAMB STEW A LA CBEOLE 

"Wipe three pounds lamb, cut from neck or shoulder. Cut into 
pieces two inches square. Melt one-fourth cup dripping, add meat 
and stir and brown evenly. Add two onions, thinly sliced, one sprig 
parsley, small bit bay leaf, two cloves and one-half teaspoonful pepper- 
corns (tie last three spices in a bit of cheese cloth), and boiling water 
to nearly cover meat. Simmer slowly until meat is tender (about one 
and one-half hours). Then add two or three small carrots, scraped 
and cut in lengthwise pieces, season with salt. Parboil aix medium- 
sized potatoes cut in thick slicea five minutes, drain, add to stew; add 
two cups thick tomato puree and simmer slowly until vegetables are 
tender. Add more water if necessary. Remove spices, add one cup 
French peas when heated through, torn into deep, hot platter and 
sprinkle with chopped parsley. 

LAMB HASH WITH OBEEN PEPFEBS Mrs. W. D. Hnrlbot 

Mince cold roast lamb in about baU.ineh pieces; add a sweet 

green pepper, minced (discarding seeds) ; add the gravy and heat 

tiiorough^. Serve on toast. 



LyCOOglC 



Meat! and Fowl 



BECtPE FOR GOBNINO BEEF Mrs. W. T. Foster 

Five tablespoonfuU of salt; two tablespoonfuls of brown sugar; 
one-half te&spoonful salt peter, or less; this is for five pounds of beef. 
Cover with water; leave three or four days and boil in same water. 

MOCE TEBBAPm Mrs. W. H. Mnsehlet 

Two cupfuls cold boiled or roast lamb cut into small pieces. Pnt 
a tablespoonfut of butter into double boiler; when melted add one 
tablespoonfnl of flour. Bnb smooth; add one pint of milk; stir con- 
tinuously tin it thickens; then set pot back where it won't cook hard, 
and add one well beaten egg, a tablespoonful minced parsley, a little 
nutmeg, red pepper, salt to taste, two hard boiled eggs cut (not too 
fine) ; then the lamb. Let it keep hot, but not boil, till lamb is thor- 
oughly heated. When serving, add a teaspoonfnl lemon juice. 

VEAl LOAF WITH EOG Mrs. H. B. Rairden 

Two and one-half pounds of veal; two pork chops, groimd to- 
gether; three eggs; three rolled crackers; one teaspoonful each salt 
and pepper. Mix well together. Put half of mixture in a loaf pan, 
peel six eggs which have been hard boiled, clip off the ends so they 
fit closely together, and lay them in the center of the loaf; place the 
balance of the meat about them, fill up pan, packing it solid ; put in 
double baker on top of stove to steam for one and one-half hours, 
spread butter over top and put in oven to finish baking. In slicing it 
you get the slice of hard boiled egg in the center. 

VEAL LOAF Mrs. A. Donald Campbell 

One and one-half pounds of veal and one slice of salt pork, chopped 
fine. Add two tablespoonfuls of cracker dust ; one egg ; piece of butter 
size of an egg; one teaspoonful each of salt and pepper; little grated 
nutmeg; dash of Worcestershire sauce. Mix well and bake in a loaf 
shaped pan with cracker crumbs and bits of batter on top. Bake 
about one and three-quarters hours. 

BAKED SPICED HAM, ALABAMA STYLE Mrs. K. T. Gary 

Soak a fifteen pound ham in cold water to cover over night. Wash, 
scrub and trim off inedible parts. Set over a trivet in a boiler and 
cover with boiling water. Mix four cups brown sugar, one large 
sliced onion, one red Chill pepper pod, one tablespoonful each of whole 
cloves, allspice and cassia bnds, two thinly sliced lemons, discarding 
seeds, add to water in boiler. Cover and cook slowly two and one- 
half hours. Remove from boiler, peel off rind and put ham in dripping 
pan, fat side up. Bake slowly two and one-half hours, basting with 
one cup sherry wine (using a tablespoon) a little at a time until all is 
used, then baste with dripping in pan thirty minutes, before removing 
from oven, sprinkle fat side with equal measures of brown sugar and 
fine bread crumbs, stick with cloves and brown richly. Serve hot 
champagne, horseradish or mnstard sauce. 



.by Google 



Meats and Fowl 



KOLDOLMA Mrs. F. W. WaddeU 

Two pounds ol veal ; one pound fresh pork ; one-half lemon, bay 
leaf and one small bottle capers; one clove of garlic; juice of one 
onion. Put all tlirongh grinder, salt, pepper to taste. Boll in small 
soft balls. Enclose neatly in cabbage leaves, secure with toothpicks. 
Place in Dutch oven which has previously melted one-fourth pound 
of butter with a little chopped parsley. Alternate layers with a small 
sifting of flour until all are in pan. Let simmer in one pint of water 
(boiling) without allowing any steam to escape for two hours; remove 
and thicken broth with yolks of five eggs. Serve eight persons. 

VISailTIA HAM Mrs. Q. W. Plnmmer 

Buy a center cut of ham, two inches thick (about two and one- 
half or three pounds) ; soak over night in milk (sweet or sour) suffi- 
cient to cover ham. About two hours before serving time drain off 
enough milk so that the top of ham is uncovered; spread over this 
uncovered top ; one tablespoonful dry ground mustard mixed with two 
tablespoonfuls brown sugar; bake in a slow oven. The milk will dis- 
appear in a rich brown gravy; if it gets too low in pan add water. 
When ready to serve remove ham to platter, add flour to fat in pan 
and when well cooked, add boiling water to make gravy of consistency 
of thick cream. Lemon slices and sherry may be added. It may need 
to be strained if milk curds are objected to; pour around ham. Has 
flavor of finest "Old Virginia Ham." 

HAM EN OASSEBOLE Mrs. A. Donald CampbeU 

Have ham cut two inches thick, leaving on rind. Poor over it 
good, generous cup of milk and one-half cup brown sugar, partly dis- 
solving sugar in the milk on top of stove, before pouring over ham. 
Cook all in casserole two hours. Serve with rings of fried apples on 
chop plate. 

BOONONS AUX TOMATOES Mrs. B. Woods 

Cut in small pieces a fresh kidney and fry in hot lard. When 
almost done add to it a sliced onion, half cup of tomatoes and a slice 
of ham. Let all fry together, and when done add a spoonful of fiour, 
a piece of red pepper and a spoonful of chopped garlic and pareJey. 
Tbin with a little water, season with salt, and let boil a few miuntes, 
when it ia done. 

EASTER HAH Mrs. E. Iglehart 

One-half pint grated bread crumbs, one cup currants, one salt- 
spoonful of salt, one saltspoonful sweet marjoram or thyme, one salt 
spoonful of black pepper, moisten with sweet milk. Boil small ham 
until tender, remove bone and skin, fill in the cavity with dressing, 
wind with cord into shape, puncture with skewer in the fat pairts and 
fill the holes with dressing. Bake in a closed pan in a hot oven one 
hour. 



D,gt,ZBdbyGOO<^Ie 



Meats and Fowl 



HAH PUTF Mrs. A. Donald Campbell 

Scald one pint of milk, one cap flour ; stir constantly until thick. 
Let cool, then add beaten yolks of eight eg^. Beat thoroughly, add 
beaten whites, a little suet, one and one-half cups of chopped, boiled 
ham, and one-half cup butter. Set tin in pan of water, and bake 
three-fourths of an hour. Keep standing in water until served. 

HAM LOAF Mrs. "W. C. ThorbuB 

Two pounds of ham, ground; one pound of pork loin, ground; two 
eggs, beaten; one cupful rolled cracker- cmmbs ; one cupful milk; pep- 
per to taste. Mix til together, put in a baking tin and pour over it 
one cupful tomato^ and bake two hours. 

JAHABALA OF HAM Mrs. H. Clay Calhoun 

One large slice of raw haia; one large onion; put through the 
grinder and fry. When thoroughly cooked add two cnps boiled rice; 
one quart of tomatoes and half of a sweet green pepper, chopped fine. 
Serve hot on toast. 

BASBECUED BOAST POBE Mrs. Chase 

Place pork roast in dry self-baating or similar roaster. Place in 
oven for thirty minutes. In meantime put one cap of vinegar, one 
teaspoonful red pepper, one teaspoonfol black pepper, one teaspooninl 
salt in saucepan and bring to a boiL Baste roast every fifteen or 
twenty minutes with this sauce at boiling point, draining off sauce 
after each basting and returning sauce to saucepan, which shoidd be 
kept at the boiling point. Drain off sauce and serve in separate dish. 

CBOWN BOAST OF TOUNO POBK Mrs. M. Dippen 

Have crown roast made of young pork ribs, same as of lamb ; fill 
the center with medium sized potatoes, boiled and rolled in bntter and 
minced parsley ; surround with fried apples. 

BBOn£D SAUSAQE Mrs. W. D. Hnrlbnt 

One and one-half or two pounds of well seasoned sausage meat 
mold it into a flat cake; place in a frjnng basket which, in turn, is 
put in a larger pan, to catch the drippings. Put under the blaze and 
let it broil dowly; when nicely browned on one side turn it over and 
brown that side. When done remove to hot platter and surround with 
fried apples. 

POBK CHOPS WITH POTATOES Mrs. C. S. Junge 

Li a casserole place a layer of sliced raw potatoes and over it 
sprinkle of flour. Put in a layer of chops and a layer of potatoes 
and repeat until casserole is full. Nearly cover with milk that is 
seasoned with salt and pepper. Sprinkle cheese over top and bake 
two boom 



hyCoogle 



Meata and Fowl 

OBANDHOTHER'S FORE NOODLES Mrs. H. D. Sheldon 

One-half pound of salt pork, sliced; six medium onions; six 
medium potatoes; noodles. Boil salt pork until very nearly done. 
Add potatoes and onions. Cook until they are beginningr to be 
tender. Have about two quarts of water left. Add noodles and finish 
cooking. This will make a thick stew. 

PORE CHOP OASSEROUB Mra. George T). Milligan 

Sprinkle bottom of dish with flour; place pork chops then on 
top a layer of sliced raw potatoes and onions, iiaieh with bread 
crumbs. Bake until potatoes are done. Use no liquid. 

BAKED PORK CHOPS Sue C. Woodman 

Cut thick, wash and dip in flour; place in deep pan; season 
with pepper, salt, and a little sage. Cover tightly and bake forty 
minutes in quick oven. 

STUFFED PORK TENDERLOINS Mrs. C. E. EaUuff 

Split two large tenderloins and flatten out as wide as possible, 
spread one with a very thick layer of dressing (such as is used for 
turkey dressing). Place the second tenderloin On this and tie them to- 
gether, roast in a medium oven, basting frequently with boiling water 
and a small piece of melted butter. 

STUFFED SPARERIBS Mrs. H. L. Middleton 

Have two sets of ribs cracked across the middle ; rub the insidea 
with salt, pepper and dredge with flour. Cook sauerkraut half an 
hour, drain and flU the ribs; tie or sew closely together and put in 
oven. Pour over the ribs the water in which the sauerkraut was 
boiled. When one side is browned, turn them over and brown the 
other side. Serve with brown gravy. 

DELMONIOO CLUB HOUSE SAUSAGE Miss A. Brennan 

To every twenty-one pounds of meat : Lean pork, seven pounds ; 
fat, seven pounds ; round beef, seven potinds. Seven ounces salt ; one 
and one-half ounces black pepper; one coffee cnp powdered sage and 
summer savory; one teaspoonful cayenne, slack; one tablespoonful 
freshly ground ginger; one tablespoonful ground mustard. Get your 
meat ground at the hutches. Mix the sausage yourself. Mix spices 
all together with salt, working it through the meat with your hands. 

FRIED PICKLED PIOS' FEET Mrs. W. D. Hurlbut 

Have butcher split the pigs' feet; boil until bones are ready to fall 
out ; put in an earthen dish and cover with a mild vinegar which has 
been boiled for ten minutes with a few slices of onion and spices; when 
the vinegar is cold the pigs' feet will be sufficiently pickled. Drain, 
roll in flour and fry. 



,dbyGoogle 



Meats and Fowl 



ENGLISH SAUSAGE Mn. C. A. Carscadin 

Six pounds lean pork ; two pounds fat pork ; one pound loaf bread 
thoronghly soaked in water; two ounces salt; one ounce best white 
pepper; two medium sized nutmege, grated. Mix all together, put 
into chopper. Leg of pork is best, but shoulder will do. 

E80ALLOFED SWEETBREADS Mrs. B. K Parker 

One pair sweetbreads; one can mushrooms; two cups of cream; 
butter size of an egg; one tablespoonful floor. Parboil sweetbreads 
twenty minutes then chop rather fine ; add mushrooms and chop. Put 
butter in spider and let it melt and as it begins to brown, add the flour 
and stir ; then add cream, stirring all the time to prevent lumps. Put 
in the sweetbreads and mushrooms and let cook a few minutes. Add 
one teaspoonfnl Worcestershire sauce and pour mixture in baking 
dish. Put cracker crumbs and lumps of batter on top and bake half 
an hour. 

CBEAMED SWEETBBEADS 

WITH TOMATO SAUOE Mrs. W. D. Hurlbnt 

Parboil sweetbreads in acidulated salt water, cook slowly for 
twenty minutes; drain, plunge into cold water. Make a rich cream 
sauce, separate sweetbreads and mix with the cream sauce; put in 
ramekins, cover with bread emmba; in the center place a tablespoon- 
ful tomato sauce; put in oven and bake until crumbs are brown; 
place a sprig of parsley on top and serve. 

OHIOEEN A LA KING Mrs. W. C. Tborbus 

Heat two tablespoonfuls butter until it bubbles; add one chopped 
green pepper; let cook slowly for three minutes, then add one table- 
spoonful flour; salt and pepper to taste and enough rich milk to make 
a smooth thickened sauce; when thoroughly done add two cupfuls 
cooked chicken and let it heat through. Mushrooms may be added. 

OHIOEEN NOODLES AND MUSHSOOMS Mrs. W. D. Hurlbut 

Pick the meat from the bones and cut in rather large pieces; 
add a can of mushrooms and the thickened chicken gravy. Boil noodles 
twenty minutes in salted water; drain and add noodles to the chicken. 
Mix dil together and let heat thoroughly. Serve with toast points. 

CHICKEN A LA CREOLE Mrs. K. Woods 

Clean and cut up two young chickens, sprinkle with salt and pep- 
per and fry in hot lard. When done, put in a dish and set aside. 
And now start your sauce. Fry an onion and add flour for thickening. 
When brown, add a can of sweet peppers, let fry a little, then add the 
tomatoes and a few bay leaves and a sprig of thyme. When the sauce 
is done throw in the fried chickens, but do not let the whole boil 
long. 



,d by Google 



Meat* and Fowl 



SWEET BBEAS FATTIES 

Parboil one pair sweetbreads in boiling, salted, acidulated water, 
fifteen minutes. Drain and cut in one-half inch cubes. Add one-half 
the measure of small mushrooms, heated in the liquor in tjie can, 
drained, cooled and sliced, and one tablespoonful pimento cut into 
bits. Reheat in one and one-half cups of sauce (cream) and Berre in 
patty shells. 

BABXD HAOASONI AlTD CHIOEEN Bertha Z. Bisbee 

Stew until tender a nice fat hen, in plenty of water. Pick meat 
off bones and shred rather finely. Boil one pound of macaroni or 
spaghetti twenty minutes in plenty of water to which has been added 
a teaspoonful of salt. Drain as dry as possible. Cover the bottom 
of a buttered baking dish with the macaroni, adding chicken and 
macaroni in alternate layers. Add one eup of cream to the gravy in 
which the chicken waa cooked, salt and pepper to taste, and thicken 
with flour or com starch. Ponr enough over the macaroni and chicken 
to cover it. Bake in a slow oven until nicely browned on top. 

HEAL OOTTAOE CHICKEN Mrs. F. W. WaddeU 

Boil one package of macaroni in salted water in the usual manner. 
Use three or lour pounds chicken. Place in Dutch Oven whole. After 
browning, four tablespoonfals of butter with a little parsley cover 
tightly and Bimmer forty-five minutes. Remove cover and add salt and 
pepper. "When sufficiently cooked, so that the fowl will slip from the 
bone, turn out fire and let cool. Remove bones and place in receptacle 
once more. Add one pint of pure cream, the macaroni previously 
cooked, and let boil up just three minutes, and let stand until rea<^ 
to serve. Better to stand for an hour. 

BOUOEEES A LA BEHrE Mrs. Robert Woods 

Take good sized young hen and boil it. When done take all the 
meat, chop it, but not too fine and keep the "bouillon." Have ready 
some mushrooms and truffles cut in small pieces. Fry an onion in hot 
lard, add flour and brown well ; in this throw your meat, mushrooms 
and truffles. Give two or three turns in the pan and add the bouillon 
to make tiie sauce. Do not make it too thin. Season with a little 
pepper. The small "pates" are ordered from the confectioner and are 
kept warm until needed. When the filling is done and you are ready 
to serve, fill each pate with the stew and send warm to the table. 

OHICEEN IN ASPIO Mrs. K 3. Bailey 

Draw one large chicken; boil until meat drops from bones and 
there is about one pint of liquid. Chop chicken and add a teaspoon- 
ful of salt and one-half teaspoonful pepper; also one tablespoonful of 
celery salt. Hard boil three eggs and soak one-half package gelatine 
five minutes and add to hot liquid. Chill mold and put in layer of 
chicken and three eggs and put balance of chicken in. Then pour tho 
liquid on mold and cMll. 



,dbyGoogIe 



Meat* and Foirl . 

OmOKEN TEBKAPXN FOB SIX PEOPLE Mra. J. P. Cobb 

One cup of cMcken cut the size of an egg; one cup of canned mosh- 
rooms ; make a cream sauce of the chicken stock ; when this is boiled 
up, add the chicken and mushrooms, yolk of one egg beaten, one tea* 
spoonful of Worcestershire sauce, teaspoonful sherry. Serve on platter 
with whipped cream or brown with bread crumbs. 

SPANISH OHIOEEN Mra. Lester Tennant 

Cut up two chickens, about five pounds in all; good fat yellow 
hens are the best. Put in a good sized pot and put in cold water 
enough to cover about two inches over all; cover and let heat very 
slowly; stew until meat can be picked from the bones. When the 
liquor the chicken is cooked in becomes cold, remove all fat and save 
to make stew in. Cut up six fair sized potatoes ; one large onion ; two 
large ^een peppers; one clove of garlic; one can of mushrooms; one 
can tomatoes; one can of peas; one bottle of little stuffed olives. Re- 
move meat from chicken bonea, then put in tomatoes, potatoes, peas, 
etc., in the liquor. Out each muishroom through and add one wineglass 
each of olive oE and good white wine; three fair sized bay leaves; a 
large pinch of thyme ; a few sprigs of parsley ; salt ; eelery salt ; blaelc 
pepper and tobasco sauce to taste. When potatoes are done, add one 
large tablespoonful butter, put in the chicken meat and the stew is 
ready to serve. Have plenty of toast to serve chicken on. This will 
serve sixteen people and may be made the day before. 

OURBY OF CmOKEN EN CASSEROLE Mrs. W. P. HUliard 

Clean, singe, dress and cut up a three and one-half pound ebiekeu 
as for fried chicken; melt one-third cup butter in an iron frying pan; 
sprinkle chicken vdth salt and pepper; arrange in hot frying pan and 
cook ten minutes, turning so as to brown evenly; add giblets; con- 
tinue cooking ten minutes longer. Arrange chickens in a hot casserole 
witii one thinly sliced onion ; one-half tablespoonful salt, and broth or 
boiling water to cover; cover casserole and sinuner in oven until 
chicken is tender. Remove chicken; strain liquor; melt one-fourth 
cup butter; add two tablespoonfuls flour, mixed with two tablespoon- 
fnU curry powder; stir until smooth. Add strained liquor (there 
should be two cups) ; one-third cup currant jelly and salt to season. 
Tom one-half of sauce into casserole; arrange chicken over sauce 
and cover with remaining sauce. Serve in casserole. Serve boiled 
riee with chicken curry. 

SALUI OP DUOS Mrs. S. E. Banmgarduer 

Out cold roast duck in pieces and heat in the following sance: 
One tablespoonful butter; one small onion chopped fine; a stalk of 
celery and one sliced carrot; saute until brown then add one table- 
spoonful flour; two cups water; a bayleaf ; a spray of parsley; a few 
cloves and salt and pepper; let cook a few minutes. Strain, put in 
the duck; add six olives sliced lengthvrise; a small can of mushrooms, 
cat in two ; let all heat and serve. 



,d by Google 



Meats and Fowl 



CBEOLE OHIOKZN 

Cut two chickens in pieces for serving; sprinkle with salt and 
pepper. Melt one-half cup butter; add one-haJf cup finely chopped 
onion ; add chickens, saute a golden brown, turning chickens to eTenly 
brown; remoTe chickens; add one-half cup flour; stir until well 
blended ; then poiir on two cups chicken stock and two cups tomato 
puree ; one mild red pepper, finely chopped ; one-half can mushrooms, 
drained and thinly sUced; one cup finely cut celery; season with salt 
and pepper. Add chickens and simmer until tender. Dispose on hot 
serving platter; surround with sauce; garnish with parsley. 

OHIOKZN ouubt with mushrooms 

IN OHAflNO DISH Mrs. M. Began 

One medium sized can of boneless chicken; one-half can of French 
mushrooms; one heaping teaspoonful Indian currypowder; one large 
tablespoonful of butter; two tableapoonfuls of sifted fiour and two cups 
milk. Put butter in chafing dish, when melted add flour; then milk 
slowly, and salt and pepper to taste. When creamy add chicken cut 
fine and chopped mushrooms; stir constantly until heated thoroughly 
and just before serving add curry powder. Eat on hot toast. 

SQUAB EN OASSEROLE Urs. W. D. Hurtbut 

Wash squabs and stuff with boiled rice in which the cooked, 
minced giblets of the squabs have been mixed ; place in casserole and 
pour a little melted butter over each squab ; sprinkle with salt and pep- 
per and onion salt. Use the water in which the giblets were cooked 
for stock, there should be one cup. Put in oven and bake until tender. 

PIGEON FIE Mrs. Colbertson 

Dress, clean and truss six young, fat pigeons. Brown them richly 
in tried out salt pork fat. Put in a Dutch oven or kettle, cover witli 
boiling water. Add two stalks celery, broken in pieces ; a bit of b^ 
leaf; one-half teaspoonful pepper-coms; one onion sliced; six slices 
of carrot; two sprays parsley and simmer five to six hours or until 
tender. Add one-half tablespoonful salt last hour of cooking. Re- 
move pigeons; strain liquid and thicken with one-fourth cup butter, 
cooked one minute with one-fourth cup flour, stirring constantly, until 
gravy is smooth. Arrange pigeon in a deep baking dish; pour over 
gravy and cover with a baking powder crust, and bake in a hot oven. 

A GOOD HUITATION OF 

MARYLAND FRIED OHICEEN Mrs. J. O. Sherer 

It may be made from rabbit. Choose a young tender rabbit; cut 
it into pieces of desired size ; put pieces in a pot, cover with boiling 
water, and parboil gently for twenty minutes ; dip each piece in flour, 
egg and cracker crumbs and fry in deep fat until a rich brown. 
Evaporate by boiling some of the water in which the meat was boiled. 
Use some of it with mUk in making "cream gravy." 



« by Google 



Meat* and Fovl 



BABBIT STEW Mrs. J. O. Sherer 

Bob tile inside of a saucepan witli a dose of garlic ; put in pieces 
of hare left; add three-quarters cup of stewed tomatoes; two raw 
carrots, cut into small cubes; one small onion, sliced; a teaspoonful 
of chopped parsley, and about a cup of hot water. Cover tightly and 
cook until the potatoes are tender (and carrots). Thicken and serve 
in a border of steamed rice and serve with tiny dumplings. 

BELGIAN HABE EN OASSEBOLE Mrs. J. O. Sherer 

Separate a dressed hare into pieces of desired shape ; rub each 
piece with a little lemon juice and oU which have been stirred together. 
Let the meat stand covered a few hours; sprinkle with paprika and 
brown each piece in a little fat in a "sizzling hot" frying pan. Some 
use two or three slices of fat bacon cut into small pieces for the brown- 
ing. When golden brown, put the meat in the casserole, cover with 
boiling water; cover and place in a very moderate oven. At the end 
of half an hour add two cups of stock or hot water ; one tablespoonful 
of lemon juice, or vinegar, a bit of bay leaf and two teaspoonfuls 
of onion ;iuice. Cook in a moderate oven about three hours. Bring 
to the table without removing the cover. And if you have any of the 
Belgian Hare en Casserole left, make for lunch the next day, the 
savory little Babbit Stew. 

CHOP SUEY Mrs. J. G. Sherer 

One pound veal ; one pound pork ; one can mushrooms ; eight stalks 
celery ; fifteen onions ; two tablespoonfuls molasses ; little flour on top. 
Cut meat in small pieces and simmer about twenty ^inutes ; add mush- 
rooms and molasses; then celery and onions. Cook slowly until ten- 
der. Sprinkle a little flour over it and mix well ; then salt, paprika 
and about three tablespoonfuls or more (to taste) of chop suey sauce. 
Simmer meat without water; serve with boiled rice. 

CHOP SUET Mrs. C. S. Junge 

Cut tender, fresh, lean pork, chicken, veal or all of these into 
thin, inch squares and saute well in bacon fat. Have ready one-half 
as much in bulk of celery ; cut in inch pieces and an onion ; saute these 
in same fat. After this, saute mushrooms ; put altogether and barely 
cover with hot water, chicken or veal broth. Add Chinese potatoes and 
sprouted barley, it they can be procured; add one tablespoonful of 
molasses; one teaspoonful of salt; one teaspoonful of Chinese Soy; 
a dash of pepper and put in cooker for three hours or more. 

CHOP STTET Mrs. W. F. Barnard 

One pound pork from shoiildcr; one pound veal from leg; fry one- 
half hour in a little fat. "When brown, add a little water and cook ten 
minutes, and add one cup celery cut up; one onion, cut up. "When 
nearly done, sprinkle with flour enough to thicken, add two table- 
spoonfuls of molasses. Serve with rice. 



,dbyGoogIe 



Meats and Fovl 



CHESTNUT STUFFINa Mrs. S. E. Bamngardner 

Shell and blanch four eupfnU FreQch chestoTita ; coot in boiling 
salted water nntil tender ; put through a ricer ; season with salt, pepper 
and a little nutmeg; two tableepoonfnls butter and one-half cnpfal 
of cream. Add this to jrour regular bread mixtnre for stnfiKng fowL 

CHESTNUT STUJrFINO 

Shell and blanch French chestnota, there should be two cups. 
Cook in boiling salted water until soft. Drain, mash and pass throu^ 
a potato ricer; add one-four cnp batter; one teaspoonfal salt; one- 
eighth teaspoonful pepper; a few grains nutmeg and one-half cnp 
cream. Melt one-fourth cup butter, pour over one cup soft bread 
crumbs; mix well; combine mixtures and use as filling for turkey, 
capon or goinea chicken. 

OTSTEK DRESSING FOR FOWLS Mrs. W. S. Kiskaddon 

For an eight or ten-pound turkey cut thti brown crust from slices 
of stale bread until you have as much as the inside of a pound loaf. 
Put into a suitable dish and ponr tepid water over it; take np a 
handful at the time and squeeze it hard and dry with both hands, 
placing it as you go along in another dish; now when all is pressed 
dry, toss it all up lightly through your fingers ; now add pepper and 
salt—about a tablespoonful — also powdered summer savory and sage, 
and one pint of oysters drained and slightly chopped. For geese and 
dncks the dressing may be made the same. 

BIOS DEES8IN0 FOR DUCK OR GOOSE Mrs. H. P. E. Hafer 

Boil one cup of rice tender. Chop one stalk celery; two onions; 
one outside of green pepper; a little piece of garlic; fry in butter and 
add boiled rice. 



,d by Google 



Meats and Fowl 



DiglizedbyGOOgle 



Meat* and Fonrl 



,d by Google 



SAUCES 



HOLLANDAISE SAUCE Mrs. A. Donald Campbell 

One tablespoonful floor and one teaspoonfnl butter; mix over 
fire until smooth ; add, gradually, one pint of boiling water, nntil all 
is ihe consistency of cream. Boil for two or three minutes and season 
with one salt spoon of salt; one-half teaspoonfnl mustard; one-quarter 
teaspoonfnl pepper. Take from fire and add yolks of two eggs, well 
beaten ; mixing all until smooth. Add slowly, three tablespoonfula oil 
and one tablespoonful vinegar. Lemon joiee instead of vinegar makes 
it much more delicate. 

HOLLANDAISE SAUCE BeUe Shaw 

Two tablespoonfuls butter; one tablespoonful flour; one-half pint 
boiling water; one-half teaspoonful salt; add gradually yolks of two 
tgga, well beaten ; juice of one-half lemon ; one-half teaspoonful onion 
jnice ; cook over hot water. Be careful not to get sauce too thick. 

TABTAB SAUCE NO. 1 Mrs. Carl S. Junge 

Sweet cucumber pickles; green peppers and onion. Chop fine and 
mix with mayonnaise salad dressing. 

TASTAB SAUOE NO. 2 Mrs. Carl 3. Jonge 

Tablespoonful mixed capers ; tablespoonful cucumber pickles, 
chopped ; teaspoonful parsley ; teaspoonful Tarragon ; teaspoonful 
mixed mustard ; one-half pint mayonnaise dressing. 

BICH OBAVY WTTHOTTT HEAT Mrs. T. M. Butler 

Heat a sufficient amount of lard or drippings in a skillet into which 
two or three, tablespoonfuls of flour have been stirred until a very 
light brown ; then add two-thirds milk to one-third water and season 
with salt and pepper, adding a level teaspoonful of extract of beef 
and stir until completely dissolved. 

A VEGETABLE SAUCE 

One-half teaspoonful kitchen boquet; one level tablespoonful 
flour; two tablespoonfuls butter; one-fourth teaspoonful salt; two cup- 
fols hot milk ; two egg yolks ; blend flour and butter ; add salt and milk 
and boil until smooth and of the desired thickness. Then gradually 
add the yolks of eggs and kitchen boquet. Thia may be served on 
any vegetable desired. 



« by Google 



CREOLE SAUCE 

One teaspoonfnl Kitchen Boquet; one onion; five shallots ; two 
green peppers; one tablespoonful butter; one tablespoonful £oiir; foar 
large tomatoes; one-half bean garlic; one teaspoonftil salt; one tea- 
spoonful sugar; six canned mm^rooms; one-half teaspoonftil parsley. 
Slice fine onion, shallots and pepper. Cook in butter to a light brown; 
stir constantly. Then the garlic minced, and the fiour. Stir all to* 
gether and add tomatoes, seasoning, mushrooms, and parsley. Cook 
twenty minntes, stirring occaaionally. Just before serving, add one 
teaspoonfnl Kitchen Boquet. 

KUSHROOM SAUCE 

Three tablespoonful Kitchen Boquet; one-third cupful butter; 
one-third cupful flour; one teaspoonful salt; dash cayenne; one tea- 
spoonful onion juice; two cupfuls milk; one can mushrooms. Melt the 
butter, add flour and milk gradually, stirring all the while. When 
cooked, add the salt, oayenne, onion and kitchen boquet. Drain and 
chop mushrooms ; add to sauce and cook three minutes, 

TOMATO CELEKT SAUCE 

Two teaspoonfula kitchen boquet; one quart tomatoes; ono tea- 
spoonful sugar; three pepper-corns; one tablespoonful butter; one 
head of celery; one onion; one green pepper; one bay leaf; four cloves; 
salt and pepper; one tablespoonful flour. Place the tomatoes in a 
saucepan ; add the celery cut up into inch lengths ; the onion slices and 
spices. Simmer slowly for twenty minutes, pass through a sieve; 
return to the fire, and stew down until you have one cupful of puree. 
Blend the flour and butter together in a double boiler; stir in the 
tomato-celery puree, and stir until smooth and thick; season with 
kitchen boquet, salt and pepper. If too thick, add a little water or 
stock. This is fine to serve with meat loa:^ salmon loaf or rice cro- 
quettes, etc. 

SAUCE BEBNAISE 

Heat a granite saucepan slightly and break into it four eggs. 
Beat the eggs briskly over a slow fire, but do not let them boil; mix 
four tablespoonftils hot water and two tablespoonfuls beef extract, 
and as the eggs begin to cook stir in the mixture, adding the juice of 
one lemon, one tablespoonful onion juice and one teaspoonful Tarra- 
gon vinegar, salt and pepper. "When this is well mixed pour on beof- 
steak and serve. 

MINT SAUCE 

One bunch mint ; one tablespoonful sugar ; three-fourths cup vine- 
gar. Rinse the mint in cold water; chop very fine; dissolve the sugar 
in the vinegar; add the mint; let it stand for one hour to infuse before 
using. If Uie same is wanted hot, heat the vinegar and stir in the mint 
just before using. 



,d by Google 



SAUCE AT.T.BMANDE Mrs. Bertha C. Hansen 

Four tablespoonfuls butter; four tablespoonfuls flour; one egg 
yolk; one cnp white stock; one cup cream; one-half teaspoonful salt; 
few grains pepper. Make same as a thin white sauce. Just before 
serving, add the yolk of one egg and cook slightly. 

HOBSX-BADISH DItESSINO 

FOB BOAST BEEF Mrs. E. D. Ootchy 

To a cup of grated horse-radish, add two tablespoonfuls of sugar; 
one-half teaspoonful salt ; one-half cup thick, sweet, cream. Mix lie 
ingredients thoronghly, then add vinegar to taste. 



,d by Google 



ab,Goo<^le 



VEGETABLES 



"Oh, mucMe is the powerful grace 
That lies in herbs." 



A FOBTO BIOAM DINNER Mrs. G. W. Hummer 

One qnart cooked red kidney beans (canned beans are good and 
save fire) ; four good sized ripe tomatoes (or the solid tomatoes from 
a can); four medium sized onions; fonr green sweet peppers; one- 
fonrth pound nut meats (pecans, almonds or English walnnts are best) ; 
two dozen green olives ; salt to taste. 

Process : If tomatoes are fresh, skin and put in a chopping bowl 
with onions and peppers, which last should have seeds and white fiber 
first removed ; chop all until about size of a lima bean. Put into skillet 
a heaping tableapoonful of drippings, from ham or bacon preferred; 
when hot add chopped vegetables and cook until all are soft and well 
blended. About fifteen minutes before serving add nut meats and 
olives cut into strips. In the meantime, heat the beans by themselves; 
tnm all together and cook ten minutes, when it is ready to serve. 

Service : Half an hour before time to serve, wa^ well, enough 
rice to make a border around your chop platter. Put it into gallopin 
boiling water, quite heavily salted ; water should be at least four times 
qnantity of rice. Boil until barely done; drain in a collander and 
set to drain in the mouth of the oven for five minutes. 

Dispose around the edge of the platter; pour the bean miztnre 
(which should be moist), in the middle, garnish with a wreath of pars- 
ley between rice and beans. 

This, with a green salad and French dressing is an abundant and 
satisfying dinner. Ko meat should be served. 

STUFFED POTATOES 

Select large uniform sized potatoes. Scrub them with a vegetable 
brush. Bake in a hot oven, the temperature of the oven should be such 
that it will bake a potato of medium size in forty to forty-five minutes. 
Remove a thin slice from the side lengthwise of potatoes ; scoop out 
the pulp, pass through the ricer; add two tablespoonfuls of butter or 
bacon fat ; moisten with hot milk ; add two tablespoonfuls each finely 
chopped chives or onion. Season with salt and pepper, beat thor- 
oughly and return to the shells, using pastry hag and tube, brudi over 
with slightly beaten egg and return to oven to brown delicately. 



Google 



A "DIFFERENT" DINITER Mra. G. W. Plammer 

A fine, GtBX head of canlifiower; enough rice to form a border 
for yoor chop platter; four tableapoonfuls grated or shredded ripe 
cheese; one teacupful rich milk; two tablespoonfnls bacon drippings. 
Garnish with blanched lettuce leaves, canned pimento and parsley. 

Process : 'Wash, trim and put to boil in a large granite or alum- 
inum kettle, the whole head of cauliflower in plenty of salted water. 
Do not cover. When about half done, pat into an iron skillet two table- 
spoonfuls of bacon drippings and when smoking hot turn in the dry 
rice which has previously been well washed and dried on a clean 
towel. Parch this rice in the drippings, stirring constantly until a 
golden brown. Then dip the water in which tte cauliflower boils, 
spoonful by spoonful, into the rice ; as it absorbs the water add more 
until the rice is puffed, dry and thoroughly done ; a little onion may 
be cooked in with rice if liked. In the meantime make a fine, thick 
white sauce, using butter and twice the quantity of flour; cook but 
do not brown; add milk and rub smooth; add shredded cheese, red 
pepper and salt; cook to a smooth masking sauce. 

Service: Put cauliflower, unbroken, in center of platter; mask 
with sauee and sprinkle with grated cheese. Around the flower dis- 
pose the lettuce in such a way as to simulate a growing head. Encircle 
this with border of rice and put an outside border of parsley. The 
pimento should be cut in strips and laid up the sides of flower inside 
lettuce leaves. 

SUNDAY NIOHT SDFPEK DISH Mrs. G. W. Plummer 

"Wash round, solid, medium sized tomatoes (one for each ser- 
vice) and cut in half but do not skin. Insert slivers of onion in each 
half tomato on cut side. Dip cut side in egg, beaten with a little 
water, seasoned with salt and paprika; then in rolled bread crumbs 
or rolled shredded wheat biscuit. Two tablespoonfnls of bacon drip- 
pings heated to a smoke in skillet or on cake griddle. Put in tomatoes, 
cut side down, and fry until a golden brown; then turn carefully; 
reduce heat and cook gently until cooked but not broken. Bemove 
to platter and place on each a generous spoonful of the following 
sauce ; 

Sauce: Add dripping to that in skillet in which tomatoes were 
cooked to make two tablespoonfnls; add four tablespoonfols flour; 
one thin slice of onion and cook four minutes; add two cups milk; 
celery salt, salt and pepper and when incorporated add one-half cup- 
ful grated oT shredded cheese and cook until smooth. 

CUBAN BIOS Mrs. W. F. Barnard 

One and one-half pounds fresh pork, ground; one onion, chopped; 
one egg; salt and pepper. Hake into little round balls. One quart of 
tomatoes, strained. Boil meat balls in tomato juice for one hour. Cook 
rice and serve as a vegetable, pouring meat and tomatoes around it on 
platter. 



i.y Google 



INDIAN VEOETABLE CUBRT Mrs. Jean WaUace Butler 

One pound can baked beans; one ponnd can lima beans; one 
pound can green string beans ; one pound can wax beans ; two pound 
can tomatoes; eight large onions; one heaping teaspoonful Cross & 
Blackwell's curry; one tablespoonful salad oil. Bemove all vegetables 
:&om cans ; beat the beans in large cooking vessel ; heat tomatoes sepa- 
rately, seasoning very strongly with salt and papper. Slice onions and 
boo in water. When sufficiently cooked, add onions and tomatoes to 
other vegetables. Fry curry in salad oil to a nice brown. Add to the 
vegtables, and simmer half an hour. While this is sinuaering, boil 
rice to serve on plate with curry. This serves ten people. In winter 
time, for large family you can double recipe, and keep frozen. Better 
every time reheated. No bread, butter or anything else is served with 
this, except Indian chutney. 

POTATO PUFF BALLS 

Scoop out the inside of hot baked potatoes, force the pulp through 
a ricer, tiiere should be two cups. Add two tablespoonfuls butter; 
moisten with rich cream; season with salt and paprika, while beating 
constantly; add one slightly beaten egg yolk and one-half teaspoon- 
ful finely chopped parsley; cook one minute, stirring constantly. 
Kemove from range and fold in the stiffly beaten white of one egg. 
Shape in balls and roll in finely chopped seasoned nut meats; place 
on buttered pan and brown delicately in the oven. Arrange around 
broiled whiteSsh. 

POTATO PLTJIT Mrs. W. D. Hurlbut 

Pass enough hot boiled potatoes through a ricer to make three 
cups; season with pepper, salt, a big piece of butter and half a cup of 
cream ; beat an egg very light, beat it in the potato ; turn into a but- 
tered baking dish; sprinkle bread emmbs on top and bake until 
browned. 

STU7PED SWEET POTATOES Mrs. Louis Geyler 

Bake three large sweet potatoes; cut in halves lengthwise; care- 
fully scoop out pnlp and press through a ricer. Keserve the shells. 
Season with one-half teaspoonful of salt; one-fourth teaspoonful 
paprika; one-half tablespoonful powdered sugar; three tablespoonfuls 
butter; and one-third cup hot cream or rich milk. Beat them thor- 
oughly, then stir in one-half cup finely chopped almonds, blanched ; 
refill shells. Cut marshmallows in four pieces and cover each portion. 
Bake in a moderate oven until heated through and marshmallows are 
delicately browned. 

FBENOH FRIED SWEET POTATOES Mrs. A. M. Cameron 

Wash and peel very large sweet potatoes ajid cut lengthwise; 
as you would white potatoes; fry in the same manner and sprinkle 
lightly with salt ; serve at once. 



,d by Google 



Vegetablea 

SWEET POTATO 0R0QTTETTE8 

Two cnpfols of mashed aweet potatoes; one cupful of hot milk; 
two eggs; one teaapoonful salt; two tablespoonfuls of butter; bread 
emmbs; one tablespoonful of butter. Beat the potatoes and milk, 
gradually stir in the melted butter; salt and one of the ei^ well 
beaten. Form into croquette balls; dip in beaten egg and bread 
crumbs. Fry in deep fat until golden brown. Drain on paper and 
serve with cream sauce. 

POTATO SUEFBI8E 

Prepare a rich mashed potato in the usual way, using six medium> 
sized potatoes and hot cream instead of milk. Beat until flufEy, then 
add one tablespoonful each finely chopped chives or onion juice and 
one tablespoonful parsley ; add one-third cup finely minced ham. Beat 
again and turn into a buttered baking dish, piling it well in the 
center. Cover lightly vrith buttered cracker crumbs, well seasoned 
with salt and pepper. Bake in oven fifteen minutes. Serve in baking 
dish. 

MASHED POTATOES WITH GREEN PEPPERS 

AND ONIONS Mrs. W. D. Hurlbut 

Pass through a ricer siz large hot boiled potatoes; add two 
tablespoonfuls butter and gradually one-third cupful hot thin cream ; 
season with salt and whip until light and fluffy. Parboil a green pep- 
per (removing seeds and veins) eight minutes; drain and chop fine; 
mix with two tablespoonfuls finely chopped onion; add gradually to 
potatoes and heat again. Serve immediately with roast goose, duck 
or pork. 

JDMBALAYA Mrs. M. T. Wagner 

One minced onion fried in butter; one-half cup of ham minced; 
one cup of rice ; four cups of tomato juice (if there is not juice enough 
in a can of tomatoes to make the required quantity, add water) ; one 
teaspoonful curry powder; one teaspoonful thyme; a few bay leaves 
broken up fine ; three teaspoonfuls salt and a few grains of c^enne. 
Mix all together and bake one and one-quarter hours. 

8AV0BT BIOE Mrs. W. B. McGhee 

Cook one cupful rice, well washed, in three quarts boiling salted 
water until partly done; drain; add to rice two cupfuls well seasoned 
chicken broth ; put into double boiler and let it steam until rice is soft 
and stock is absorbed. Stir in one-fourth cup butter and one table- 
spoonful finely chopped chives or onion ; if onion is used then add one- 
half tablespoonful chopped parsley. 

EASY BIOE CROQUETTES Mrs. C. A. Carscadin 

Two cups boiled rice (salted) ; one beaten egg; grated rind of one 
lemon ; add to rice, roll in fiour ; fry in hot lard. Lay on brown paper 
and sprinkle well witli sugar. Have rice as soft as possible. 



.byCoogle 



Vegetable! 

STUFFED TOMATOES WITH SHRIMP Mrs. J. E. KeUy 

Use six large tomatoes, and scrape oat pnip ; put little butter in 
pan and fry the pulp with one small onion, cut fine, and one can of 
shrimps; add one egg (beaten), and enough bread crumbs to make soft 
filling. Season with salt and pepper. Fill tomatoes, and sprinkle dry 
bread crumbs, or cracker crumbs, over top and small piece of butter 
on each. Bake fifteen minutes and serve hot. 

RICE WITH TOMATOES &XD GREEN PEPPERS 

Finely chop one Bermuda onion, two green peppers; mix with one 
cup minced raw ham. Saute ten minutes (without browning) in four 
tablespoonfuls butter. Add one cup of washed rice and three cups 
of chicken stock or beef broth. Simmer one-half hour stirring occa- 
sionally with a fork. Then add four tomatoes peeled and chopped; 
one-half tablespoonful salt ; a few grains cayenne and one-fourth tea- 
spoonful paprika. Cover and cook over hot water until rice is tender. 
Serve as a vegetable. 

SFAOHETTI— ITALIAN STYLE Mrs. J. H. Shanley 

One package spaghetti, unbroken, boiled until tender, then let 
cold water run through it. Pill iron spider with sliced onions and 
cook until tender, not brown ; add two small green peppers, chopped 
fine; one can mushrooms and one pound chopped steak. Cook together 
long enough to season, about ten minutes. Put in with the spaghetti 
in a baking dish, and add one quart tomatoes, strained. Mix thor- 
oughly and sprinkle with grated cheese, viz: layer of spaghetti, then 
cheese, etc. Also put cheese on top to form crust. Bake until heated 
through. 

ITALIAN SPAGHETTI Mrs. C. A. Jennings 

One heaping tablespoonful butter; two medium-sized onions; one 
bead of garlic; one can tomatoes; two-thirds package spaghetti. Cut 
onions and garlic fine and put in saucepan to fry with butter a light 
brown. Add the tomatoes, strained and let simmer one hour. Put 
spaghetti in large vessel of salted boiling water and keep boiling 
fast for forty minutes. Have hot dish ready ; into this put spaghetti 
and tomatoes and a small cup of grated Herkimer or other spappy 
American cheese. Mix thoroughly; serve with small dish of same 
cheese to springle over spaghetti at table. 

SCALLOPED TOMATOES Alice Clock 

One No. 3 size tin of tomatoes ; one medium-sized onion ; six slices 
bacon ; two cups fresh bread crums. Chop the onion and bacon, fry to 
crisp brown; place first a layer of tomatoes, then a layer of bread 
crumbs, then a layer of onion and bacon ; over which salt and pepper 
is shaken. Bepeat layers until all material is used. Bake forty-five 
minutes in moderate oven. 



,d by Google 



Vegetable* 

ITALIAN MACARONI Mrs. W. I. Clock 

One-half pound streaky salt pork, no bones, very little lean meat; 
three oniona; a suspicion of garlic; one teacup of chopped parsley; 
one No. 3 can of tomatoes; four heaping teaspoonfuls granulated 
sugar; one teaspoonful aalt; one-fourth teaspoonful pepper; two table- 
spoonfuls of grated Parmesan cheese; one pound of spaghetti. Put 
finely chopped pork, onions and parsley into frying pan and fry to nice 
brown ; add sugar, salt, pepper and cheese. At same time the above 
is cooking have the tomatoes heating in enameled saucepan; also have 
water boiling ready to put spaghetti in, for it must actually boil twen- 
ty-five minutes to be tender. After the tomatoes have cooked about 
ten minutes, put through sieve and add to pork and onions and let all 
simmer while spaghetti cooks. Put spaghetti in coUander to drain. 
Serve by placing a layer of spaghetti in deep dish, then sauce and 
cheese, and so on each layer imtil all material is used : serve very hot. 

MAOABONI Mrs. Qussie Enos 

Boil macaroni one-half hour. Put one pint milk; one and one- 
half cups grated cheese ; one tablespoonful butter ; one tablespoonfol 
fionr; salt and pepper together and boil all until smooth. Put layer 
of macaroni and layer of sanee with sauce on top. Bake one-half hoar. 

HOHINY OSOQUETTES 

To one-half cup hominy (taken from a carton) ; add two cups 
hot stewed and strained tomato pulp; cook in a double boiler until 
hominy is tender. Stir in two tablespoonfnls butter; three-fonxths 
teaspoonful salt; one-fourth teaspoonful paprika. Spread mixture on 
a plate to cool. Then shape into balls the size of email lemons, roll 
in crumbs, dip in egg and again in crumbs and fry in hot deep fat. 
Drain on brown paper and serve with cheese sauce. 

HOMINT aaiTS Mrs. W. D. Hurlbut 

Put two cupfuls of milk and two of water into a double boiler; 
add a little salt and one cupful of hominy grits ; let boil hard one hour ; 
do not stir. The moisture will all be absorbed and it will be light and 
creamy. Use as a vegetable or in place of potatoes. 

TOBtATOES, CREOLE STYLE 

Wash and wipe the desired number of medium-sized tomatoes. 
Cut a slice from the blossom ends, scoop out pulp, sprinkle with salt 
in the inside, invert on plate, let stand one honr. Melt two table- 
spoonfuls butter, add two tablespoonfuls flour mixed with one-half 
teaspoonful salt, one-fourth teaspoonful paprika and few grains cay- 
enne. Stir until blended, then pour on slowly one-half cup cream. 
Stir until smooth and add one cnp green com, cut from cob, and mixed 
with one-half tablespoonful each red and green pepper, finely chopped. 
Flavor delicately with onion juice. Fill tomatoes, cover with buttered 
crumbs and bake in moderate oven until tomatoes and com are tender. 



Vegetables 

TOMATOES OH HALF SHELL Mrs. B. McNeil 

Cut tomatoes in half without peeling. Place them in baking 
dish. Put in a piece of batter on each, and dnst with aalt and pepper. 
Pnt in oven and cook until tender. Have ready squares of toasted 
bread. On each place a half tomato and pour around white sauce 
and serve hot. 

BAKED TOBIATOES Mrs. W. 0. King 

Select nice smooth tomatoes; slice off top and remove pulp and 
seeds. Bub this through collander. Add one-half cup of each bread 
and cracker crambs, pepper, salt and minced onion to tomatoes with 
a little butter. Stuff tomatoes, place top on, using toothpicks ; bake 
one hour in a moderate oven. 

FSIED TOMATOES Mrs. C. S. Junge 

Qreen or ripe tomatoes may be used. Slice and dip in flour. Place 
in skillet with plenty of bacon fat and a little butter. Pry until brown 
and lift carefully onto a platter. In the remaining fat stir a table- 
spoonful of flour, then pour a cup and a half of milk. When creamed, 
turn over tomatoes and serve. 

BAKED NOODLES Mrs. E. Lewis Phelps 

One box of home made noodles, boil until tender then drain. But- 
ter a baking dish; put in a layer of noodles; sprinkle with grated 
cheese and seasoning; then another layer of noodles; then two cups of 
cooked boiled ham chopped flne ; chopped green pepper and chopped 
onion ; put the remainder of noodles on top and add cheese, etc. Beat 
up four or five eggs; add milk enough to cover all the noodles. Set 
pan into pan of water and bake slowly until eggs are done. Can add 
buttered cracker crumbs on top if liked, 

CORK PUDDINO Helen M. Bailey 

Six ears com; two eggs; one-half pint milk; pinch salt; pinch 
pepper; cut com from cob, beat eggs, and add milk, eggs and sea- 
soning to com. Bake until light brown. 

OOBH OTSTERS Mrs. E. S. Smith 

Mix one pint of grated com; three tablespoonfuls of milk; one 
teacnp of flour ; a piece of butter the size of an egg. Drop by des- 
Bertspoonfnlfi into a little hot butter. Fry on both sides. 

OOBN CROQUETTES 

One cupful of stewed or canned com; one-half cupful of dried 
bread crumbs ; one-half cupful of milk ; one beaten egg ; one teaspoon- 
ful of salt; one teaspoonful of baking powder; one tablespoonful of 
flour. Chop com, mix with bread crumbs, milk and other ingredients. 
Drop from spoon into deep fat and fry until light brown. 



■ by Google 



OEEEN PEPPERS STUFFED WITH KICE, 
TOMATOES AND NUT HEATS 

Cut a slice from the stem ends of six medium-sized mild, green 
peppers ; remove seeds and veins ; parboil in boiling water eight min- 
utes. Drain. Have ready one and one-hall cups hot boiled rice ; mix 
with three-fourths cup thick tomato puree ; add one cup chopped Eng- 
lish walnut meats. Season with salt, pepper and a few grains of cay- 
enne ; add one teaspoonful each finely chopped parsley and chives or 
onion. Fill peppers. Arrange on bnttered dripping pan ; cover with 
buttered cracker crumbs and bake in oven until heated through and 
crumbs are brown. 

OBEEN PEPPERS STUFFED WITH ONIONS 

Parboil six green peppers eight minutes (discarding seeds and 
veins) in boiling water to cover. Drain, keep warm. Cover one-half 
dozen silver skin onions with boiling water, heat to boiling point and 
drain. Cover again, with boiling salted water and cook until tender, 
drain and finely chop, mix with one cup soft bread crumbs, add three 
tablespoonfuls melted butter, season highly with salt, pepper and one- 
half teaspoonful finely chopped parsley. Pill prepared peppers (if too 
dry add one tablespoonful cream) with mixture, cover with buttered 
crumbs, set them in buttered gem pans and bake in oven until peppers 
are tender and crumbs are brown. 

OBEEN PEPPERS STUFFED WITH CORN Mrs. T. D. Caliger 

Select sweet green peppers of medium size ; cut a thick slice from 
stem ends ; remove seeds and veins. Soak in salt water one honr, 
drain, and fill with following mixture. Put three cups of canned com 
into a saucepan, with two tablespoonfuls finely chopped green pep- 
pers, butter and one tablespoonful of onion juice. Simmer slowly 
fifteen minutes, stirring often to prevent burning. Cover tops of pep- 
pers with buttered bread crumbs, and bake one-half hour in moderate 



EGO PLANT AND SHRIMP Mrs. Ada Woods 

Boil a whole egg plant, cutting off the stem end. When done 
take off skin and put the inside to drain. Put a cup of stale bread 
crumbs, a grated onion, salt and pepper, tablespoonful parsley and a 
clove of garlic minced fine, in a skillet with two tablespoonfuls bacon 
drippings, and fry until brown ; add this to the egg plant, put in two 
dozen shrimps, broken up, and when all is well mixed put in the oven 
and brown. 

FRENCH FRIED EGO PLANT Mrs. A. M. Cameron 

Prepare egg plant in the usual way ; drain and cut as yon would 
potatoes for French fry; sprinkle with salt, pepper and flour; place in 
a frying basket and fry strips until crisp and a pretty brown; drain 
on brown paper. 



.by Google 



BAKED STOTTED EGG PLANT 

Cut slice from stem end ; reserve for cover, scoop out inside, leav- 
ing a wall one-fourtii inch thick, sprinkle inside with salt and pepper, 
finely chop pulp. Cook one-half onion, finely chopped, in one table- 
spoonful bntter three minutes without browning, add three fresh mush- 
rooms, finely chopped, four tablespoonfols finely chopped lean raw 
ham, season with salt, pepper ; cook five minutes, stirring constantly. 
Add egg plant pulp, three-fourths cup soft bread crumbs, one-half 
teaspoonful finely chopped parsley. Mix well, refill shell, cover with 
buttered crumbs. Bake in moderate oven forty-five minutes. 

HEW STEING BEAHS Mrs. W. D. Hurlbut 

Cut two thin slices of bacon crosswise in narrow shreijs, using 
shears for this purpose. Saute to a delicate brown. Add two cups 
hot, cooked, well-drained string beans and one-half tablespoonful 
grated onion or onion juice. Shake the frying pan to thoroughly mix 
the ingredients, season with salt and pepper. Turn into hot serving 



CKEAHED PEAB AS AN ENTBEE Mrs. C. A. Carscadin 

Cut with a cookie cutter a round of bread from a thick slice, then 
a ring with a doughnut cutter. Dip in melted butter and toast a deli- 
cate brown in the oven. fHll them vrith peas in cream sauce. 

TRENCH FBIED ONIONS Bertha Z. Bishee 

Peel onions, slice and separate rings. Beat an egg, white and 
yolk together ; salt and pepper to taste and stir in enough fiour — about 
a tableBpoonfol — to make a thin batter. Pour over the onion rings, 
making sure that they are well coated, and fry a handful at a time 
in deep fat, which must be hot enough to brown quickly. Brain and 
serve covered with a napkin. 

BAKED SPANISH ONION Alice Clock 

Three Spanish onions ; two cups of fresh bread crumbs ; one pint 
milk; one heaping tablespoonful butter. Take greased baking dish. 
Place alternate layers of sliced onion, and bread crombs, seasoning 
each layer with salt and pepper. When materials are used up, pour 
over the pint of milk; and the butter cut in small pieces is placed on 
the top laat. Bake slowly, until onion can be pierced easily. 

SCALLOPED CAB3BA0E Miss Kennedy 

Cut one-half of boiled cabbage in small pieces ; sprinkle with salt, 
pepper and one finely chopped pimento ; pour over one and one-fourth 
cups thin white sauce, mixed with one-third cup grated cheese. Mix 
well and turn into a buttered baking dish; cover with buttered and 
seasoned cracker crombs. Place in oven and bake until crumbs are 
brown. 



« by Google 



VegetaltleB 

OABBAQE KOLLS Mrs. C. S. Jnuge 

Parboil in salt water the large leaves of a cabbage. Take them 
from the water and place singly on the cake board and pepper tbem. 
Mix half and half, chopped beef and pork and season. Make into rolls 
twice the size of an egg. Round these roll several cabbage leaves and 
fasten with tooth picks. Place these in the skillet with two tablespoon- 
f uls of bacon fat or lard with a little butter. Turn in a small amount 
of water and cook covered over a slow fire. When water cooks oft 
add more in small quantities for nearly an hour. Remove tooth picks 
and serve. 

OAUUFLOWEK AU OBATIN Miss June Baumgardner 

Boil cauliflower until tender; separate so that a flower will be in 
each ramekin. Make a white sauce and grate three tablespoonfuls 
yellow American cheese in it; when the cheese is melted poor over 
the vegetable in ramekin, put a few buttered bread crumbs on top 
and put in the oven to brown. 

PARSNIP SAUTE 

Wash parsnips and cook until tender in boiling water. Drain 
and cover with cold water; with the hands slip off the skins. Mash 
and rub through a strainer. Season pulp with salt, pepper and butter, 
shape in flat cakes and dredge with flour. Sante a golden brown in 
equal parts hot butter and chicken fat. 

fRIED SUHUER SQUASH 

Wash, wipe and cut tender squash in one-half inch slices, sprinkle 
with salt, pepper and dredge with flour, dip in egg, then in fine eracker 
crumbs, repeat and fry in deep, hot fat, drain and serve. 

CREAMED CELERY CABBAGE Mrs. H. Clay Calhoun 

Cut celery cabbage iu inch lengths, boil until tender in salted 
water; drain and pour over a rich cream sauce. 

EAKED, STUFFED ARTICHOKES Mrs. Francis A. Sieber 

Six artichokes; four ounces fat pork; two ctQ)s chopped mush- 
rooms; two tablespoonfuls chopped shallots; one teaspoonful minced 
parsley; one tablespoonful flour; one tablespoooful butter; one-half 
cup spinach sauce ; one-half teaspoonful salt, a little pepper, nutmeg ; 
one cup broth; one glass white wine. Prepare artichokes, boil thirty 
minutes and drain. Mince pork and fry with shallots ; add mushrooms 
and parsley end simmer ten minutes. Blend with it the flour mixed 
with butter ; add Spanish sauce and seasoning. Stuff artichokes, and 
tie each with string ; brown outside in a little olive oil, add the broth 
and wine. Cover and cook forty minutes in moderate oven. When 
they are ready to serve remove the strings and arrange on a hot 
platter and pour the sauce over them. Qamish with a whole mush- 
room on top of each. 



hyCOO^IC 



Vegetables 

M1TBHB00MS Mrs. H. P. K Hafer 

Peal one pound fresh mushrooms. Fry in butter slowly for three- 
quarters of an hour. Add two cups of soup stock and one-half cup of 
cream and thicfeen with flour. Serve on toast. 

STUFFED HUSHBOOHS Mrs. K. Larson 

Brush twelve large mushrooms. . Remove stems. Chop finely, and 
peel caps. Melt three tablespoonfuls butter, and one-half tablespoou- 
fnl finely chopped shallot, and chopped stems. Then cook ten minntes. 
Add one and one-half tablespoonftds of flour, chicken stock to mois- 
ten, a slight grating of nutmeg, and one-half teaspoonful finely 
chopped parsley, salt and pepper to taste. Cool mixture and fill 
caps, well roundjng over top. Cover with buttered cracker crumbs, 
and bake fifteen minntes in a hot oven. 

STEWED HUSHSOOUS Mrs. E. R. Homig 

Peel and wash mushrooms, cut one or two onions very fine and 
stew in a tablespoonful of butter, add mushrooms, season with pepper 
and salt and sprinkle over a UtUe flour. Cook about fifteen minutes 
and serve hot. , 

STEWED OnCUMBEBS Mrs. E. B. Homig 

Pare and cut lengthwise in quarters, remove seeds. Put into hot 
butter, or finely cut bacon, season with salt and pepper. Cook about 
fifteen minutes over a slow fire, or until they appear glossy. Add a 
teaspoonful vinegar or a little sour cream. Serve hot. 

rSIED CnOTJUBEKS Mrs. William H. Fahmey 

Peel and slice, medinm thick, large cucumbers; dip in batter and 
cracker cnunbs and fry in hot fat until brown. 

EOHLBABBI Mrs. E. R. Homig 

Take three bunches of kohlrabbi, remove hard leaves, strip ten- 
der leaves from their ribs, cut them up fine. Peel kohlrabbi, cnt in 
slices quarter of an inch thick, and add tender green leaves. Put on 
to boil with cold water, just enough to cover, until tender. Season 
with pepper and salt, blend a teaspoonful of flour with butter, add to 
vegetable, and stew a few minutes longer. Serve hot. 



,d by Google 



a b, Google 



SALADS 



"Tivould tempt the dying anchorite to eat; 
Back to the world, Tie'd turn his weary soul. 
And plunge his fingers in the salad bowl." 



TEA SALAD Mrs. Frederick Dunn 

Upon a lea£ of head lettuce, place a round of boiled ham. (One 
slice of ham will make two rounds.) Then place a thick slice of 
tomato ; and next a half a hard boiled egg, cut crosswise ; then a ring 
of sweet green peppers; and over all pour Thousand Island dress- 
ing. Qamisfa with parsley and radish rosettes. Two such portions 
served on a salad plate makes an appetizing dish, or it can be served 
on a large platter at the table, or passed. 

FEBFECnON SALAD Mrs. Louis Geyler 

One envelope Knox's sparkling gelatine; one-halt cup cold water; 
one-half cup mild vinegar; one pint boiling water; one teaspoonful 
salt; one cup finely shredded celery; one encumber chopped finely; 
one bunch radishes chopped ; one green pepper chopped ; one-half cup 
sugar; juice of one lemon; little onion juice; seeds of one pomegran- 
ite. Soak gelatine in cold water five minutes; add vinegar; lenton 
juice ; onion juice ; boiling water ; sugar and salt. Strain and when be- 
ginning to set, add ingredients. Turn into ring mold and chill. Serve 
on lettuce leaves, garnish with asparagus tips in center and tomatoes 
quartered around it. Use cooked mayonnaise as dressing. 

OHIOKEN SALAD Mrs. Jarvis Weed 

To the white meat and a very little hit of the dark meat of a 
chicken add one cupful blanched almonds, a cupful of celery and about 
six slices of Hawaiian pineapple shredded. Cover with an oil mayon- 
naise and mix welL 

FROZEN FRUIT SALAD Mrs. C. H. Bushnell 

Three cakes blue label cream cheese; one-half pint mayonnaise 
dressing; one pint whipped cream; one ten-cent bottle maraschino 
cherries ; one can white cherries ; one can pineapple cut fine ; one-half 
cup pecan nuts. Beat cheese to cream, mix with fruit, put in melon 
mold and freeze about three hours. Serve on lettnce with mayonnaise. 



FBOZEN SALAD Mrs. A. E. Ealtenbnm 

Five eggs beaten separately. One cnp of vinegar; one cap of milk 
and cream mixed ; one tablespoonful bntter ; cme-half teaspoonful mns- 
tard ; one-fourth teaspoonful salt ; one cup of sugar. Cook until thick. 
Let cool and add : two bottles whipping eream, any kind of fruit — ■ 
preferably pineapple, oranges, peaches, etc., and freeze like a mousse. 
Baking powder can molds are splendid. Slice and serve with cberry on 
lettuce. 

FROZEN SALAD Mrs. Thos. D. Caliger 

Melt one tablespoonful butter and add yolks of two eggs, well 
beaten; mix three and one-half tablespoonfuls flour, three tablespoon- 
fnls sugar, one teaspoonful salt, one-third teaspoonful paprika, few 
grains cayenne. Add to the above mixture : Two-thirds eup milk ; one- 
third cup vinegar. Cook same in double boiler until thick. Stir con- 
stantly; when cooked, beat two minutes and chill; then add two large 
tablespoonfuls of pineapple juice, four cupfuls of fruit eut fine, one 
bottle of whipped cream. Pack in ice and salt for three hours. Slice 
and serve on lettuce leaves. 

HAWAHAH SALAD Mrs. C. A. Jennings 

One large 6t two small beads of lettuce; four medium sized 

tomatoes ; one alligator pear. Place lettuce leaves on plate with two 

or three slices of tomatoes. Cover with rings of alligator pear cut 

very thin. Serve with French dressing, 

French Dressing; Bub salad dish with bead of garlic (omit if 

objectionable). One-half teaspooofnl salt, generous dash of paprika, 

four tablespoonfuls olive oil, one and one-half tablespoonfuls vinegar. 

This will serve sis people. 

OOTTAGE CHEESE AND PEUNE SALAD Mrs. Lyman Holsey 

One and one-fourth cups cottage cheese; one and one-half-dozen 
medium sized prunes ; one-fourth cnp chopped hickory nuts ; one-fourth 
teaspoonful salt ; dash paprika. "Wash prunes. Bemove pits and let 
soak over night. Mix remaining ingredients and stnfF prunes with this 
mixture. Place on lettuce leaf and serve with French dresfdng. 

FKTTIT SALAD Belle Hallen Molt 

One can pineapple cubed; one pound Malaga grapes seeded and 
cut in half ; one-fourth pound pecans ; one-fourth pound marshmallows 
cut in half. 

Dressing: Tolks of four eprgs; one-half teaspoonful mustard; 
one-half teaspoonful salt; juice of one lemon; one-half eup of cream; 
boil in double boiler until thick and smooth. Let this get cold and 
add one-half pint whipped cream and pour over and mix thoroughly 
with fruit and let stand in icebox four hours before serving, giving 
the marshmallows a chance to become creamy. It will come out like a 
thick fluff. 



byGoogle 



rSUrr salad VLtb. C. B. Martin 

Into a quart of boiling water, pat two packages of lemon jello ; 
when thoroughly dissolved, strain ; end when cool mix in one enp of 
chopped nuts ; one cup of green grapes, seeded and cut in half ; one cup 
of sliced pineapple ; one-half cup pimento ; two cups chopped cahbage ; 
stir and add to jello. 

FBUIT SALAD Mrs. J. Blackburn 

Green California grapes cut in half and seeded, a little celery ent 

in dice, pecan nuts c^ut in halves and a few quartered olives. Mix 

carefully with salad dressing and before serving add one-half cup of 



BEST EVER SALAD Mrs. Kathryn M. Haskell 

One orange out in quarters; one banana cut in small oblong 

pieces; one small can of pineapple cut in small pieces; one-half cup 

chopped English walnuts. 

Dressing: Two eggs beaten lightly; one-fourth cup pineapple 

juice; one- fourth cup lemon juice; one-half cup sugar; cook until it 

thickens ; let get cold and pour over fruit. 

TOHATO STUFFED WITH 

COTTAGE CHEESE AND ALHOimS Katherine Blade 

Peel nice ripe tomatoes ; scoop out the centers and fill with cottage 
cheese and minced almonds; place a spoonful mayonnaise on top and 
sprinkle minced almonda over the mayonnaise. 

TOBCATO EN SURFSISE Mrs. J. E. Kelly 

Peel a nice large tomato and empty its contents ; take some cold 
slaw and celery hashed up very fine and mix it with mayonnaise dress- 
ing; and add a pinch of salt and a dash of paprika. Mix well and fill 
the tomato with this mixture. The tomatoes must be served very cold. 

A NOVEL SALAD DISH Mrs. Campbell 

Take large and long encumbers, cut them through the middle 
lengthwise, scrape out the inside and one has a pretty green boat in 
which to serve the salad. This is particularly pretty with lobster or 
shrimp salad on account of the contrast in the color. 

CHRISTMAS SALAD Marian Blade 

Two large grapefruit; one cup chopped celery; one cup chopped 
tart apples ; one-half cup hickory nut meats. Cut grapefruit in small 
pieces, being careful to remove all partitions and tough parts. Drain 
off juice, add celery, apples, nuts and mayonnaise. Toss together 
and serve on small leaves of cabbage. Garnish with round pieces of 
pimentos to resemble holly berries and pieces of green pepper cut to 
resemble holly leaves. 



., Google 



DATE AND PINEAPPLE SALAD Mrs. Lyman 

One pound dates; four slices pineapple; one cup nut meats. "Wash 
the dates and Bteam for five minutes, dry in oven. Cut in half re- 
moving the seed. Chop nut meats. Cut pineapple into small cubes 
and mix with nut meats. Marinate with French dressing and stuff 
dates with mixture. Serve on lettuce leaf with Mayonnaise dressing. 

NEAPOLITAN SALAD Mrs. Lyman Holaey 

Two cups of cottage cheese; one-half cum cream; one-half tea- 
spoonful salt. Mix cheese with cream and salt. Color one-third of 
mixture with beet juice, pink. Mold in brick shaped tin which has 
been dipped in very cold water. Put in a layer of white, then the pink, 
then white. Chill thoroughly before turning out. Slice with very 
sharp knife dipped in hot water. Serve on lettuce leaves. 

ANOHOVIE BOHNES-BOTTOHES Mrs. Tnimen 

Kllet some anchovies, cut them into thin strips, and put them on a 
dish with some shredded lettuce leaves, small radishes, some capers, 
thin slices of lemon and chopped parsley. Arrange all tastefully, 
season with lemon juice mixed with salad oil. garnish with stoned 
olives and the yolks and the whites of hard boiled eggs, 

OTTODMBER SALAD Mrs. J, T. Brovm 

One cucumber cut very fine ; one can grated pineapple ; iuice of 
four lemons ; suerar to taste ; two tablespoonfuls of gelatine. Cook the 
gelatine in a little water: then add the juice of pineapple and lemons; 
when it begins to set add the cucumber and pineapple. Put in molds, 
serve with a cream mayonnaise dressing, 

CtrOUHBEB SALAD Mrs, Maxwell 

Peel the cucumbers, cut them in thin slices without cutting the 
slices off, thus giving the appearance of a whole cucumber. Insert 
in each opening thin slices of radishes with the peel on, sliced to the 
exact size of the cucumber. Chill thoroughly and serve with French 
dressing. 

BUTTER BEAN SALAD Mrs. Lyman 

One pint butter beans (canned or cooked) ; one eup choDped cel- 
ery ; one tablespoonful finely chopped onion ; one tablesnoonfud finely 
chopped green pepper. Mix ingredients together lightly. Garnish 
with grated cheese, and serve vrith French dressing. 

CREAM CHEESE Mrs. C. E. Ellis 

One Neufaehatel cheese : one-half that quantity of butter ; one 
tablespoonful cream ; dash of tabasco sauce or eavenne oepner. Tint 
pink with vegetable coloring ; roll in nuts, finely chopped. Serve on a 
lettuce leaf. 



hyCOO^IC 



BANANA SALAD 

Cut bananaa lengthwise, roll them id mayotmaise then is ^oiind 
peanuts and serve on lettuce leaves. 

NORMANDY SALAD Mrs. Theresa B. Orr 

One can French peas washed and strained. One-half pound Eng- 
lish walnuts cut the size of the peaa. Mix dressing with nuts. Toss 
with peas and serve on lettuce leaves. 

PIQUANT BAISINS FOK SALADS Mrs. Lyman 

Carefnllf seed one-half pound cluster raisins, fiinse quickly in 
hot water and drain well. Add one-fourth cup cold water, let stand 
one or two hours, then simmer, covered, until raisins begin to plump. 
Add one tablespoonful of Tarragon vinegar and simmer until vinegar 
is absorbed. Bemove from fire, place tea towel under cover to absorb 
moisture and let stand until cold. These raisins are used as garnish 
or component part of salads. 

OABBAQE SLAW Mrs. T. M. Butler 

Chop up very fine one-half of medium sized cabbage head, one 
stalk of celery and one sweet pepper, salt to season, add one-half cup 
of sngar and enough vinegar to moisten the mixture. 

POTATO SALAD 

Four cupfnls sliced boiled potatoes ; one small onion, chopped ; 
one-half cupful weak vinegar j one teaspoonful salt; one-eighth tea- 
spoonful pepper ; three tablespoonf uls olive oil ; two slices bacon diced ; 
four stalks celery; chopped lettuce; one tablespoonful minced pars- 
ley. Put onion in a large bowl, add salt and vinegar, and let stand 
ten minutes; then slice in the potatoes while still warm and mix thor- 
oughly. Add oil, the celery cut fine, the bacon fried to a crisp, and 
the bacon fat; then the parsley. Arrange on a bed of lettuce and gar- 
nish with beets and hard cooked eggs that have been chopped. 

POTATO SALAD Mrs. CampbeU 

Cut cold boiled potatoes into dice and mix them with two minced 
raw onions and one tablespoonful minced parsley. Sprinkle with 
salt and pepper to taste, stir lightly together and add one small diced 
encumber and a hard boiled egg, also diced. Set in ice box for an hour. 
When ready to serve, stir in one cucumber eut into dice and miT with 
two-thirds cupful of salad dressing. Garnish with hard boiled eggs 
and olives. 

10 8ESVE WITH A SALAD Mrs. G. A. Carscadin 

Cream together one cake Blue Label Cream Cheese, and one-quar- 
ter pound or less of Roquefort cheese ; fold into this one bottle of cream 
whipped stiff. This will serve eight people. 



hyCoogle 



HAM aALAD Edna Blade 

Gliop one cupful of cooked ham very fine. Soak one tablespoon- 
ful of Knox gelatine in one tableapoonful of cold water for lialf an 
hour, then dissolve in one cupful of hot water with one teaspoonful 
each of onion juice and chopped parsley. Add to the ham and stir 
occasionally until the mixture thickens ; fold in one cupful of whipped 
cream and add one-half saltspoonful of paprika. Form it into little 
basket shapped molds and, when set, partly fill each little pink basket 
with mayonnaise. Surround with tiny lettuce leaves and simulate 
handles by two arched plumes of parsley. Placed on pretty plat^ 
these form a delectable decorative fancy. If the larder does not con- 
tain the leftover meat, a can of deviled ham may be substituted. 

LOBSTER SALAD Mrs. CampbeU 

Take a can of lobster, taking care to free it from any pieces of 
shell ; set it on ice while you make a good mayonnaise dressing and set 
that on ice also. Have ready one-half as much celery as you have 
lobster, cut into one-half inch lengths; mix lobster meat and celery 
together, sprinkle with salt and cayenne, then stir in one cup of may- 
onnaise. Arrange two or three lettuce leaves together to form a shell 
and put two or three teaspoonfuls of the salad on each. Garnish with 
hard boiled eggs cut lengthwise. 

OYSTEE SALAD Miss Anna Brennan 

Allow six oysters to each person. Parboil them in their liquid 
and drain at once. When cool cut each one in four pieces. Break 
tender young leaves of lettuce and mix in equal parts with oysters. 
Pour over all the following dressing. Allow one egg to two persons. 
Boil eggs twenty minutes. When cold cut whites in slices and mix 
with oysters and lettuce. Mash yolks fine in deep bowl and add one 
raw yo^. Stir in olive oil slowly until it is a smooth paste. Season 
with lemon juice, English mustard and salt. Add oil until as thick 
as cream. Pour over salad. 

DAHDELION SALAD Mrs. MaxweU 

Pick the young tender leaves of the dandelion, wash and lay in 
ice water for half an hour. Drain, shake dry and pat still drier 
between the folds of a napkin. Turn into a chilled bowl, cover with a 
French dressing, turn the greens over and over in this and send at 
once to the table. 

TOHATO JELLY Mrs. A. Donald Campbell 

Cook, for twenty minutes, two cups of tomatoes, with slice of 
onion; one teaspoonful salt; dash of pepper; strain and add one table- 
spoonfnl Knox gelatine, which has already been soaked in cold water. 
Stir all until gelatine is entirely dissolved ; then pour in a ring mold 
that has been dipped in cold water. When ready to serve turn out on 
a bed of lettuce leaves and fill center with chopped celery well mixed 
with mayonnaise. 



,dbyGoogIe 



Salad* 

SALAD DXtESSnra Mrs. H. P. Sieh 

One-half cap olive oil ; one teaBpoonfol paprika ; one teaspoonfol 
Worcestershire saace ; a pinch mustard ; one-half cap sugar ; one-third 
teaspoonfol salt. Mix all together well and add vuiegar until the right 
consistency. 

SALAD DBE8SIK0 Mrs. E. Hilliard 

Three yolks of eggs, one tablespoonfal sngar, one-quarter tea- 
spoonfol mustard; one-tenth teaspoonfol cayenne pepper, one table- 
spoonful salt, one pint sweet oil, few drops at a time, one-quarter cup 
vinegar, one-qoarter cop lemon joice. Add sweet cream b^ore osing. 

EZCELUSNT SALAD DBESSDTO Mrs. Frederick Bonn 

Two tablespoonfols granolated sogar; two teaspoonfnls dry mus- 
tard; little red pepper; eight yolks eggs; eight tablespoonfols vinegar; 
two teaspoonfnls salt ; two teaspoonSils butter. Cook in donble boiler 
five minutes ; when cold add one cup chopped pecan nuts or blanched 
almonds, twenty-foor chopped marshmallows, two cups whipped 
cream. Poor over apricots or fruit salad. Garnish with maraschino 
cherries. This serves sixteen persons. 

OBEAH SALAD DBESSINO Mrs. N. A. Flanders 

Two tablespoonfols butter; two tablespoonfuls sugar; two eggs; 
one-half cup whipped cream; one-half teaspoonful salt; one-half tea- 
spoonfol mostard (together); one-eighth cayenne pepper; one-fourth 
cup vinegar. Mix sugar, salt and mostard together in small pot, add 
vinegar and put on fire to heat. Beat eggs very light in a round bot- 
tomed bowl. Add the vinegar and other ingredients. Stand bowl in a 
pan of hot water over fire, and beat with a dover beater until it 
thickens. Take the bowl out at once and beat in the butter. Set aside 
to cool. Add whipped cream before serving. (Last item not neces- 
sary.) 

OBEAH SALAD DBESSINO Mrs. J. H. Shanley 

Four tablespoonfols butter ; one tablespoonfal sogar ; one-half cop- 
ful vinegar ; one tablespoonfol floor ; one teaspoonfol each, salt and dry 
mostard ; one cupful milk ; three eggs ; dash cavenne pepper. Let the 
butter get hot ; add flour and stir until smooth, being carefol not to 
brown. Add milk, stir, and let boil up. Place saocepan in another 
of hot water; beat eggs, salt, mustard, add vinegar and stir into boil- 
ing mixture. Continue stirring until it thickens. When cold, bottle. 

SIRS. LUFF'S BEATQN1TAISE 

Yolks of three eggs ; two teaspoonfnls mustard ; one teaspoonful 
salt; one saltspoonfal white pepper; two tablespoonfuls salad oil: two 
tablespoonfols sugar; one tablespoonful floor, heaping; one-half cup 
hot vinegar; one cup milk or cream. Beaten whites added last. Pot 
in donble boiler and stir until it begins to thicken. Take it off stove 
and beat until cool. 



, Google 



FBUir SALAD DKESSINa Mrs. A. K. Swiekheimar 

Butter size of an egg; three eggs; juice of two oranges; juice 
of one lemon ; one-lLalf can pineapple juice ; one-lialf cup sugar ; one- 
third spoonful dry nmstard; one teaspoonful flour. Cook in double 
boiler until thick; set aside to cool; add one cup of cream, whipped. 

FBUIT SALAD DBESSDTO Mrs. Frank Sessions 

Yolks of two eggs, well beaten; two tablespoonfuls each of oil, 
vinegar and sugar; one-half teaspoonful salt and dash of paprika. 
Put in bowl over the teakettle, beat until cool. Just before serving 
add the beaten whites and a little cream. 

FBUIT DRESSnra Mrs. A. E. Kaltenbmn 

To the juice of one can of pineapple add: one tablespoonful flour; 
one-half cup sugar ; a pinch of salt ; tablespoonful butter. Cook until 
creamy, let cool and add one bottle of whipped cream, one-half pound 
of dates and marshmallows. Serve on fruit. 

FBDIT SALAD D£ESSIKa M^s. T. M. Butler 

Two eggs, well beaten, add one cup of sugar; one-half cup of 
pineapple juice, one-fourth cup of lemon juice or juice of one lemon. 
Place in double boiler and cook until creamy and thick. Let it cool 
and just before serving whip one-half pint of cream and stir in the 
aance. 

SALAD D£ESSINO Mrs. W. H. Muschlet 

One heaping teaspoonful flour; one heaping teaspoonful Colemana 
mustard ; one-half cup granulated sugar ; one teaspoonful salt ; mix all 
together. Yolks of three eggs; one-half cup vinegar; one cup cream 
or cream and milk ; large lump butter ; little paprika. Cook in double 
boiler until thickened. Before getting cold stir in the beaten whites. 

ITALZAN SALAD DRESSnTO Mrs. Theresa B. Orr 

Yolks of three eggs boiled hard and mashed flne. One small 
spoonful salt; one small spoonful mustard; a little cayenne pepper; 
one saltspoonfnl of powdered sugar ; four tablespoonfuls olive oil ; one 
tablespoonful lemon juice; one tablespoonful vinegar. Do not let 
come to boil but stir constantly. 

sons CBEAM SALAD DBESSINa Mrs. A. B. Swiekheimar 

Three eggs beaten with one cup sour cream; two tablespoonfuls 
sugar; one-half teaspoonful mustard; one-half cup vinegar; one table- 
spoonful flour. Cook in double boiler; when cold, add one-third cup 
olive oil. 

THOTTSAND ISLAND DBESSIKO Mrs. Carolyn Chandler 

To a foundation of either boiled dressing or mayonnaise, add: 
Chili sauce, catsup, hard boiled egg and green olives. Serve on either 
lettuce hearts or French endive. 



byGoogle 



THOUSAND ISLAND DBESSINa Mrs. F. B. Woodland 

Three tablespoonf uls mayonnaise dressing ; one tablespoonful Tar- 
ragon vinegar ; two tablespoonfuls chili sauce ; one tablespoonful cream ; 
a little dash salt, pepper and paprika; dash English mustard; and 
some chopped chives or onions. 

HSS. PHELPS' THOUSAND ISLAND 

SALAD DEESSING Mrs. E. Lewis Phelps 

Bub the bowl with garlic ; two tablespoonfuls cooked salad dress- 
ing, cream this with one tablespoonful chives, cut fine; one table- 
spoonful green pepper and one of red peppers, both cut fine ; one table- 
spoonful roqnef ort cheese ; four tablespoonfuls home made chili sauce. 

COOKED SALAD DBESSINO Mrs. H. D. Sheldon 

One-half tablespoonful salt; one-half tablespoonful dour; two 
tablespoonfuls sugar; one teaspoonful dry mustard, little cayenne 
pepper; yolks of two eggs; three-fourths cup milk; one-fourth cup 
vinegar; butter size of egg. Mix all dry materials, then add eggs 
well beaten ; butter, milk and vinegar. Cook until thick, stirring con- 
stantly. TMn'-with cream. 

BOILED DBESSING Mrs. Arthur Hammer 

One teaspoonful each of mustard and sugar; two teaspoonfula 
flour; one-half teaspoonful salt; one-eighth teaspoonful paprika; one 
egg and one cup of milk. Have butter the size of an egg hot in a 
spider; have the above ingredients thoroughly mixed and put in 
the hot butter, stirring constantly until thick. Add vinegar and lemon 
to taste and beat until smooth. 

WALTHAU SALAD D££SSINQ B. C. Hansen 

One cup of sour cream; two egg yolks; one-fourth cup vinegar; 
two teaapoonfuls salt; two teaspoonfuls sugar; one teaspoonful mus- 
tard; one-eighth teaspoonful pepper. To cream, add egg yolks, 
slightly beaten, vinegar and remaining ingredients, thorough^ mixed. 
Cook in double boiler, stirring constantly, until mixture thickens. 

ROQUEFOBT CHEESE DBESSINO Mrs. A. E. Kaltenbrun 

Take a ripe piece of cheese, cream with a fork and add cream or 
vinegar until it makes a paste. Add oil and vinegar, salt and paprika 
as for French dressing. 

CHEESE MAYONNAISE 

Half a cream cheese; four tablespoonfuls of olive oil; one table- 
spoonful of vinegar; one teaspoonful of salt; dash of cayenne. Rub 
the cheese to a paste with the olive oil, seasonings and vinegar until it 
is thick like an egg mayonnaise. To some the flavor of oil is un- 
pleasant, but a very good mayonnaise can be made without oil, pro- 
vided you use two eggs instead of the one egg yolk ordinarily required. 



, Cookie 



ab,Goo<^le 



PIES 

"No soU upon earth is so dear to our eyes 
At the soil we first stirred in terrestrial pies." 



PZE OSnST UNFAZLZNG Mrs. H. 3. Mount 

One cap flour; two tablespoonfuls of lard; three tablespoonfals 
of boiling water ; pinch salt ; baking powder enoagh to cover the end 
of silver knife. Pnt lard into water. Beat well; then add to dry 
ingredients, and roll out. 

PZE OBUST Anna May Price 

One eap shortening; one-half enp boiling water; cream. Two 
ei^B sifted flour and two level teaspoonfols baking powder. 

PIE CBUST Mrs. N. L. Hurlbnt 

One cnp flour; two heaping tablespoonfols lard; pinch salt; one 
teaspoonfnl baking powder. Cold water enough to make dongh. 
Handle as little as possible. 

LEHpN OBEAU PZE Mrs. Becker 

Bake emst separate. One heaping tablespoonfol lard; one-half 
cap flour; two tableepoonfuls water; one-fourth teaspoonful salt. 
Filling: Two cups water; juice of one lemon; yolks of two eggs; 
two tablespoonfnls com starch ; one-half cup sugar ; pinch of salt. Boil 
filling separate and when coot fill in baked crust. Beat whites of eggs 
with two tablespoonfnls sugar and put on the top, 

Z£MONPZE 

Juice of three lemons; three eggs; pint milk; one-half enp sugar; 
one-fourth cnp rolled crackers ; one lemon rind. 

LEHON OBEAM PZE Mrs. WiUet Wanzer 

Bake the crust, then fill with the following: One cnp sugar; one 
lemon juice and peel; three egg whites saved for frosting; three 
heaping teaspoonfuls flour stirred up in a little cold water; one tea- 
cup boiling water; mix together and boil up. Then place in baked 
crust. Stir whites of eggs until thick. Add about one-half cup sugar, 
8 little at a time. Then place on pie and brown slightly. 



.by Google 



LEMON G2tEAH PIE Mrs. H. Clay Galhomi 

One cupful granulated sugar; one tableBpoonfnl bntter, creamed; 
two tablespoonfms flour; juice of one large lemon; yolks of two eggs; 
one onpful milk ; stir all together and fold the stiffly beaten whites of 
the two eggs in last. 

LEHON FIE Mra. B. F. Morrow 

One lemon; one-half orange; one onp sugar; yolks three eggs; 
one cup water; one tableepooi^ul (heaping) flour; one lump butter; 
beat all together and cook until thick custard. Put into cmst ; with 
whites beat stiff one spoonful sugar. 

FLAT GUSTAED PIE Mrs. Earl Combs 

Four eggs beaten; one quart of milk; two tablespoonfols flour; 
one pinch salt; one tablespoonful butter; put in hot pan. Then poiur 
custard and bake about twenty minutes. When done put creamed 
sugar on top while hot. Creamed sugar. One cup powdered sugar; 
two tablespoonfols butter; one teaspoonful Tanilla; cream all together. 

CKANBEBBT PIE Mrs. Harry M. Boon 

One pint cranberries; one-half cap raisins. Wash and cut up 
raisins, put with cranberries with a small cup of sugar; cook and 
when soft put in pie crust. 

BOSTON OBEAM PIE Mrs. J. Q. Sherer 

Two cups milk ; three-fourths cup sugar ; three-fourtlia cup cocoa- 
nut; pinch salt. Put in double boiler and heat. Teaspoonful vanilla; 
three tablespoonfuls com starch dissolved in a little milk; beaten 
whites of four eggs last ; then beat steadily. Bake crust first. Beat a 
bottle of cream until stiflE; sweeten it with three tablespoonfuls of 
powdered sugar and a teaspoonful vanilla and spread on pie. 

OBEAM PIE Mrs. Willet Wanzer 

^Vo egg yolks; four heaping teaspoonfuls sugar; two cups milk; 
one-half tablespoonful butter; three even tablespoonfuls com starch; 
one teaspoonful vanilla. Cook in double boiler until it thickens. Then 
spread on the baked pie crust, and put the whites beaten with sugar 
added on top, and brown slightly. To be eaten cold. Chocolate 
added makes a very delicious pie. 

BUTTER SCOTCH PIE Mrs. William Molt 

Make and bake crust first, before adding filling. One cup light 
brown sugar; butter size of an egg; one tablespoonful flour; pinch of 
salt; mix thoroughly, then add one cup of milk and boil in double 
boUer until thick; then add beaten yolks of two eggs. Add to the 
baked crust ; beat whites of the two eggs stiff, with a little sugar and 
brown slightly in oven. 



,d by Google 



OSEAH PIK Mrs. T. M. Butler 

One egg, one tablespoonful of flour, three-fourths eup of sugar, 
butter size of a walnut, one pint of milk. Stir constantly while cook- 
iog until thickened and fill previously baked crust and sprinkle over 
with cocoanut and nutmeg. 

BUTTER-SOOTCH PIE Mrs. P. D. Swlgart 

One and one-half oimces butter; three-fourths cup light brown 
sugar; two eggs; one and one-half cups sweet milk. Put butter in 
pan, mix in brown sugar, stirring constantly until caramel color, then 
add milk and boil until sugar is melted. Separata the yolks from 
whites, add to yolks one-half cup flour and one teaspoonfnl com 
starch. Add enough water to make a thick paste, stir into ready 
baked pie crust, put whites to which sugar has been added on top and 
brown. Instead of whites of egg for top of pie, whipped cream may 
be substituted. 

BUTTEB-SOOTCH PIE Mrs. Earl Combs 

One-half cup brown sugar; one-half cup white sugar; two yollcs 
of egps ; two tablespoonfuls flour ; one large eup milk ; two table- 
spoonfuls butter; dissolve sugar and butter with a small amount of 
milk; and let boil until it threads a little. Mix flour with a little 
water to thin paste and then add milk and yolks of eggs. Stir all 
together and boil until smooth, thick paste. Put in baked cnist. Whip 
whites, put in little sugar, and put on top. Bake a golden brown. 

PILUNQ POB PUMPEIK PIE Mrs. W. H. Hart 

One scant cupful sugar beaten into two eggs; one teaspoonfnl 
flour; two heaping tablespoonfuls of cooked pumpkin; spices to suit 
taste; one and one-half eupfuls of sweet milk. Mix in order given; 
this makes one large pie. When done and before serving, spfead the 
top with whipped cream; nuts can also be added. 

BLXTEBEBBY PIE Mrs. G. S. Jxmgii 

One cup of flour; two heaping tablespoonfuls of lard; three table- 
spoonfuls of sour cream. Mix lightly into crust. Sprinkle a layer of 
flour in lower crust and fill with berries. Sprinkle over them two 
tablespoonfuls of flour and a cup and a half of sugar. Put in two 
tablespoonfuls of water and add upper crust. Heat stones of cooker 
fifteen minutes beginning as yon begin your pie. Bake pie forty 
minutes. 

SOUR OBEAM PIE Mrs. H. Freeman 

One eup sour cream; one cup sugar; one-half cup seeded rusins, 
chopped fine; yolks two eggs; one-half teaspoonfnl cloves, and cinna- 
mon. Mix one teaspoonful flour with sugar; spread on the pie after it 
is baked, whites of two eggs beaten to a froth, stiff, with two table- 
spoonfuls sugar. Set in oven and brown slightly. Cream must be 
sour. 



.byCoogle 



Flea 

MOOE CHEBBY PIE BeUe Shaw 

One cup cranberriea, aplit lengthwise (work out seeds) ; one-balf 
CQp raisins chopped fine; one cnp sog&r with one tableapoonful fiour 
mixed with it. Mix all together; pour in one-hall onp boiling water; 
add one teaspoonfnl vanilla. Bake between rich crusts. 

PUHPEZN PIE Mrs. Max Mauermanu 

One cup pumpkin; one-fourth cap of sugar; one-half teaapoonful 
salt ; one-fourth teaspoonful cinnamon ; one-fourth teaspoonfol mace ; 
one-half teaspoonful vanilla ; one egg and one yolk, beaten separately, 
and whites added last; one-half cup milk; one-fourth cup cream; one 
tablespoonfol com starch. Bake in plain pastry ontil set. 

RIOE RAISIN FIE Mrs. C. A. Oarseadin 

Boil one cap of raisins in one cup of water for five minntes ; then 
add three tablespoonfpls boiled rice and one cap of sugar. Boil 
another five minutes and add a tahlespoonful butter and b^e in two 
crusts. 

DUTCH APPLE PIE Mrs. H. Abells 

Line pie plate with crnst and fill with quartered apples. Add 
to one cup of sugar, one large tahlespoonful of fiour and stir into one 
cap of cream; ponr over apples. Grate nutmeg over all and bake 
without upper crnst. 

SWEET POTATO PIE Mrs. Earl Combs 

One pound of sweet potatoes mashed; two cups of sngar; one cup 
of cream; one-half cup bntter; three eggs well beaten; little nutmeg, 
pinch of salt. Bake in crust. 

SWEET POTATO PIE Mrs. Thomas D. Caliger 

Three mediom sized potatoes. Boil soft and mash fine. Mix with 
it yolks of three eggs; sugar, to taste; one tablespoonfol butter; fiavor- 
ing, nntmeg and vanilla to taste. Whip whites of eggs, and add small 
portion of ground citron. 

POTATO FIE Mrs. Charles T. Daily 

Four medium sized potatoes; two eggs; one and one-half cups 
milk; one cup sugar; one teaspoonful vanilla; bntter the size of an 
egg ; grate a little nutmeg on top of pie. Mash the potatoes and whip 
them until light and fiufi^ ; add milk and run through sieve to remove 
all lumps ; add other ingredients ; put whole in crust and cook slowly 
in moderate oven until done. 

PBTTNE TASTS Mrs. Litson 

Stone stewed prunes; chop fine; then stew them in their own 
liquor ten minutes; sweeten and thicken with fiour or com starch. 
When nearly cool, fill puff paste forms and pile high wiUi wl^ped 
cream and serve. 



,d by Google 



a b, Google 



a b, Google 



DESSERTS 



"Among the great, wJiom heaven hath made to shine, 
How few have learned the art of arts, — to dine!" 



KISS TOBTE Mrs. F. Dunn 

Sis whites of egga ; two cnps graonlated sagar ; one teaspoonful 
vinegar; one tea^oonful vanilla. Beat the whites of eggs to a stiff, 
dry fro^ ; add the sagar a little at a time and heat ; add the vanilla 
and vinegar. Grease a spring form pan and poor in the tnixtitre. 
Bake about one honr in a slow oven. Serve with crushed strawberries 
or raspberries and whipped cream. Can be baked in individual molds 
and the centers filled with berries, etc. Very delicious. Bake forty 
minutes in a slow oven. 

£188 TOBTE Mrs. Harry M. Boon 

Three egg whites beaten very stiff; gradually put in above one 
cup of granulated sugar, one teaspoonful vinegar, one-half teaspoon- 
ful vanilla. Bake in a very light warm oven in two layers. Fill with 
one quart ice cream, whip cream on top, use berries if you desire, with 
cream. Serves four or £ve people. Becipe can be doubled. 

CHEBST TOBTE Mrs. H. 8. Mount 

Thicken cherries with com starch. Torte: Two tablespoonfuls 
butter ; two tablespoonfuls sugar ; one yolk egg. Work little by little 
into above mixture one cup of flour; put in pie tin and fill with 
cherries. Bake in oven twenty minnt^. 

DATE TOBTE Mrs. W. F. Barnard 

One cupful sugar; three eggs; one cup sliced date; one cup sliced 
nut meats; three tablespoonfuls flour; one-half teaspoonful salt; one 
teaspoonful baking powder. Bake about one hour. Serve with 
whipped cream. 

PINEAPPLE OREAH Mrs. C. S. Junge 

One cup whipped cream; flfteen marshmallows cut into quarter 
inch squares; four slices pineapple cut into this mixture and let stand 
on ice for two hoars. Bananas or prunes may be used this same 
way. 



«byCoogle 



PINEAPPLE BAVASIAN OBEAH Mrs. C. S. Junge 

One tablespoonful Knox gelatin; one quarter cup cold water; 
one-half can grated pineapple; one-quarter cup sugar; one-half table- 
spoonful lemon juice; one and one-half cups whipped cream. Soak 
gelatin in the cold water. Heat pineapple and add sugar, lemon juice 
and gelatin. Chill in pan of ice water, stirring constantly. When it 
begins to thicken, beat until frothy. Fold in cream and turn into 
molds. When cold serve with maraschino cherry on top. 

PINEAPPLE MEBINGITE Mrs. May F. Kenfield 

Heat one can of grated pineapple and one-half cap grannlated 
sugar and when boiling, thicken with about two tablespoonfnls of 
com starch, dissolved in one-fourth cup of water. Boil five minutes. 
Add juice of one-half lemon and three beaten egg yolks. Remove and 
cool. ]<^11 pastry shells and cover with a meringue, made of three 
whites, beaten stiff, with eight tablespoonfuls powdered sugar. Serve 
very cold. 

PINEAPPLE SPONGE 

One small fresh pineapple or one and one-half pint can of the 
fruit; one small cup of sugar; one-half package Knox gelatine; one- 
halm cup water; whites of four eggs. Soak gelatine two hours in one 
and one-half cups water. Chop pineapple, put it with juice in a small 
saucepan vrith sugar and the remainder of the water. Simmer ten 
minutes, add gelatine, take from fire immediately and strain (if yon 
prefer to leave the pineapple in, take out before straining) into a 
basin. When partly cold, add whites of eggs beaten. Beat until mix- 
ture begins to thicken. Serve with soft custard, fiavored with wine. 

WHIPPED OBEAU SEOBET Mrs. W. H. Muschlet 

For one pint whipped cream soak a scant tablespoonful granu- 
lated gelatine in enough water, cold, to barely cover, until soft ; then 
add a smi^ half teacupfnl of boiling water and stir until the gelatine 
is completely dissolved ; after which add three-quarters of a cupful of 
sugar and Savoring. Turn into a bowl and beat it with an egg beater 
until it is white, like marshmallows, and begins to become firm. Just 
as soon as it has reached that point, hut before it commences to grow 
stringy, beat it by spoonfuls into the cream. This will increase the 
bulk of the latter, and it will keep firm any length of time. 

SPANISH OBEAM 

Pint milk with one-half box Keystone gelatine in double boilcp; 
yolks of two eggs and five tablespoonfuls sugar beaten together very 
lightly ; pour imlk, etc., into egg mixture ; then return to double boiler 
and stir constantly. Beat whites of two eggs, pour mixture very grad- 
ually with same and stir until cold; then add two tablespoonfnls 
cream and pour into mold. Stand two hours on ice before serving. 
Be careful and have mold damp inside, but not wet, before using. 



, Cookie 



DREAM WHIP Mrs. W. L Ooch 

One pint whipping cream; one-half pound marshmallows ; two 
tablespoonf ols sugar ; one teaspoonlul vanilla ; one-fourth pound pecan 
nuts (other nuts can be substituted if desired). Cut the marshmal- 
lows up with scissors, add to stifQy beaten cream ; also add sugar and 
vanilla. Let stand sU one day. When ready to serve place a small 
amount in glasses, adding the chopped nuts, chocolate sauce or any 
fruit desired. This cream and marshmallow combination can be 
served as the foundation of any number of desserts, 

0HA2lL0TrE BUSSS Katharine Orr 

One-half pint whipping cream; one tablespoonful Keystone white 
gelatine; one-fourth cup hot water; one-fourth cup powdered sugar; 
whites of two eggs; flavor with vanilla. Add gelatine when cold to 
whipped cream and sugar; then flavoring and well beaten whites of 
eggs. Four over lady Angers and decorate top with cookies stand- 
ing up. 

DRESDEN CHOCOLATE 

One eup stale bread crumbs; one-half grated chocolate; two 
tablespoonfnls sugar ; one-fourth teaspoonful salt. Put in oven in but- 
tered tin until chocolate melts. Serve with whipped cream. 

CHOCOLATE LADY FINGER DESSERT Mrs. S. liViedlander 

Eighteen large lady fingers divided in half and put in a pan flat 
side up and pan lined with waxed paper. Melt two cakes Baker's 
chocolate (sweet) in double boiler with three tablespoonfuls water 
and two tablespoonfuls sugar. Let cool, then add yolks of four eggs, 
beating one at a time. Beat four whites stiff and add to above mix- 
ture. Take layers of lady fingers, then one of the chocolate mixture, 
another of lady fingers and so on, making three layers of lady fingers 
and two of the chocolate mixture. When ready to serve, whip two 
bottles of cream and put on top. Candied cherries and chopped nuts 
may be added also. 

RIZ AU LAIT Mrs. B. Woods 

Boil one-half a cupful of rice in a pint of water until very tender 
and creamy. Add one cup of milk, a small piece of lemon rind, a hand- 
ful currants and sugar to taste. Let cook slowly for fifteen minutes 
and remove from fire. Beat yolk of an egg in a spoonful of milk and 
stir in the rice; do not set back on fire. Serve cold. 

PBUHE SOUTFLE Mrs. William Molt 

To one cup stewed prunes, seeded, add three taUespoonfuls 
sugar; one-half teaspoonful vanilla and beaten whites of three eggs 
folded in lightly. Steam for two hours in double boiler. (When 
adding water to boiler be sure it is boiling hot.) Serve hot with 
whipped cream. 



■ by Google 



MAPLE OREAH CUSTABD Mrs. Jarvia Weed 

Three bottles cream; three egga beaten very light; one cup pure 
maple syrup ; put all together in a double boiler and stir constantly 
until very smooth. Line a dish with lady fingers and pour the custard 
over them ; put in ice box and serve when very cold. 

PEACH SURPBISE Mrs. W. L Qock 

Canned peaches; mace'aroons; whipping cream. Take the juice 
of peaches and add macaroons broken up. Fill the centers o£ halves 
of peaches with this mixture, and serve with whipped cream. 

OABAMEL OUBTASD ES SUBPKISE Mrs. T. D. McAIicken 

Caramel custard baked in individual molds. Unmold on rounds 
of sponge cake a little larger than the custard molds, cover with 
meringue creamed with almond extract. Sprinkle with sugar and 
brown. Decorate with blanched almonds on top. 

BLUEBEBRT SHORTCAKE Mrs. C. A. Jennings 

One-half enp butter ; one cup sugar ; one-half enp milk ; two eggs ; 
two and one-half cups flour ; two heaping teaspoonf u^ baking powder ; 
one pint blueberries. Mix batter and add berries last. Bake in muffin 
rings or shallow dripping pan. Serve hot. 

PEACH SHOBTCAEE Mra. W. N. Hurlbut 

Two cups flour; four level teaspoonfuls baking powder; half 
teaspoonf ul salt ; two teaspoonfuls sugar ; one-third cup butter ; three- 
quarters oup milk. Mix and sift flour, baking powder, salt and sugar, 
work in butter with finger tips, and add milk gradually. Toss on 
floured board, divide in two parts, bake in hot oven on large cake 
tins. Spilt and spread with butter. Sweeten sliced peaches to taste. 
Crush slightly, and put between and on top c' cakes. Cover with 
whipped cream. 

THORN APPLES 

Prepare a syrup by boiling eight minutes two cups sugar and 
three-fourths cup of water. Wipe, core and pare eight apples 
(Greenings). Drop apples into syrup as soon as pared. (>>ok slowly 
until soft but not broken, skim syrup when necessary. Drain from 
syrup, flU cavities with quince yeliy and stick apples thickly with 
blanched, shredded and delicately toasted almonds. Chill and serve 
with cream as dessert or use as a garnish with cold meats. 

FOOD FOE THE GODS Mrs. J. P. Nichols 

One cup sugar; one teaspoonf ul baking powder; four tablespoon- 

fuls, heaping, cracker crumbs; three eggs, beaten separately; one cup 

dates; one <inp nuts. Bake slowly in oven. Serve with whipped 



.y Google 



STRAWBEBRT rOAU Mrs. A. J. Langaa 

One enp strawberrieB, mashed; one cup sugar; white of one egg 
beaten stiff; whip all together for ten mintites, serve on pieces of 
angel food or sonfiliine cake. 

ORUHB TABTAS Mrs. Wm. J. Maiden 

One cupful sugar ; one enp dates, pitted and chopped ; one enpf ul 
nuts, chopped; two eggs; one tablespoonfnl floor; one teaspoonfnl 
baking powder; pinch of salt. Mix eggs, sugar and salt, then floor 
and baking powder, adding the dates and nuts last. Bake in slow 
oven and serre with whipped cream. 

nOS AS A DESSEST 

Dried flgs make a very agreeable dish, but they must be prepared 
the day before and set away on ice. Soak them, simmer slowly until 
plnmp. Drain and pile in a bon-bon dish. Serve with whipped cream 
around the dish. Mavor and sweeten with vanilla. 

EOT APPLE DESSERT DISH Mrs. Eustace 

Pare, quarter, core and slice five or six large apples. Put these 
in a serving dish suitable for the oven, in layers, with seeded raisins 
and one cup of sugar. Cover and let bake until apple is tender. Re- 
move the cover and set marshmallows over the top of the apples, nsing 
as many as desired ; return dish to the oven, for a minute only, to heat 
the marshmallows, and brown them slightly. Servo with or without 
cream. 



,d by Google 



a b, Google 



PUDDINGS 



"The pudding's proof does in fhe eating lie, 
Success is yours, tvhickever rule you try." 



no PUDDma Mrs. G. B. Martin 

One cup suet; one cup sugar; one cup milk; one cap of figs, 
ground; three cups flour; one-hali teaspoonful salt; one teaspoonfnl 
each of cinnamon and baking powder. Steam two hours. 

STEAUED FIO PUDDINa Mary Roberts 

Three ounces beef suet ; one-half ounce figs, chopped fine ; two and 
one-third caps stale bread cmmbs ; one-half cup milk ; two eggs ; one 
cup sugar; three-fourths spoonful salt. Chop suet and work with 
hands until creamy; then add figs. Soak bread crumbs in milk. Add 
eggs, well beaten; then sugar and salt. Combine mixture. Steam 
three hours in a buttered mould. Serve with following sauce : 

Sauce : Two eggs ; one cup powdered sugar ; three tablespoonfuls 
wine ; beat yolks until thick, add one-half of the sugar. Beat whites 
stiff, add remaining sugar. Combine, and add wine. 

FIG PUDDINa Mrs. W. K Mitchell 

One cup suet ; one cup sugar ; one cup milk ; three cups fiour ; one 
cup figs, ground; two eggs; one-half teaspoonful salt; one teaspoonful 
each of cinnamon and baking powder. Mix all together and steam 
about two hours. 

CHOOOLATE PUDDING Mrs. C. A. Bowman 

One pint of milk; two tablespoonfuls com starch; one table- 
spoonfnl sugar; pinch of salt. Boil until thick, add one heaping 
teaspoonful cocoa dissolved in a little boiling water, and last the stifBy 
beaten whites of two eggs. Let all cook one minute and flavor with 
vanilla. 

CHOCOLAIX PUDDING Mrs. J. L. Putnam 

One pint of milk; one tablespoonful Baker's cocoa; one table- 
spoonful com starch; one egg; one and one-half cups sugar. Heat 
milk in double boiler. Mix dry ingredients and beat in egg. Add to 
scalded milk. Boil flfteen minutes. Remove from fire and whip with 
egg beater. Add one teaspoonful vanilla. Serve with cream. 



.,CoogIe 



Pnddings 

STEAMED CHOCOLATE PITDBINO Mrs. WiUiam H. Fahniey 

One and one-half tablespoonfnls butter; two-thirds cup sugar; 
one egg; one cup milk; one-half teaspoonful salt; two and one- 
fourth cups flour; three teaspoonfuls baking powder; two squares of 
chocolate, melted. Steam in a buttered pudding mold, tightly covered, 
for two hours. 

Cream Sauce: One-fourth cup butter; one cup powdered sugar; 
stir until creamy; then add one cup whipped cream just before serv- 
ing ; flavor. 

STEAMED CHOCOLATE PUDDING Mrs. H. B. Foster 

Three-fourths cup sugar; one tablespoon butter, ereamed. Two 
eggs; one-half cup milk; one and one-ha& cups sifted flour; one and 
one-half teaspoonfuls baking powder; two squares melted chocolate, 
or two tablespoonfuls cocoa ; one teaspoonful vanilla. Steam one hour 
and serve with hard sauce. 

CHOCOLATE ICE30X PUDDDTO 

Two cakes sweet chocolate ; two tablespoonfuls boiling water ; one- 
fourth cup confectioner's sugar; yolks four eggs; whites four eggs; 
nut meats; lady fingers. Melt chocolate in top of double boiler; re- 
move from range, add boiling water and the yolks of eggs beaten 
until thick and light. Fold in the stifEly beaten whites of eggs. Line 
a small pan (dimensions, 7^x4^x2^) with wax paper. Put in a layer 
of split lady fingers cut to fit and cover bottom ; cover these with half 
of the chocolate mixture; sprinkle with bits of trimmings of lady 
fingers and nut meats. Cover with a layer of lady fingers, pour over 
remainder of chocolate mixture, sprinkle with nut meats and chill in 
refrigerator twenty-four hours. Serve with whipped cream. 

CABAMEL PUDDING Mrs. H. B. Foster 

One-half pint brown sugar; one-half pint cold water; one-fourth 
box gelatine; four eggs, whites; one-half teaspoonful vanilla. Soak 
gelatine in one gill of cold water. Put sugar and other gill of water in 
saucepan and boil until it becomes a thick syrup. Add gelatine and 
vanilla and again heat to boiling point. Beat whites to stiff froth. 
Pour hot syrup on eggs, beating until cold. Turn into mold and 
serve on flat dish with custard sauce made from yolks of eggs. 

MOLASSES PUDDING Mrs. C. A. Carscadiu 

One egg well beaten; two tablespoonfuls sugar, rounded; one 
tablespoonful butter, level; one pinch salt; one-half cup molasses; one 
and one-half eups flour, well sifted; one teaspoonful baking powder; 
one teaspoonful soda, level, dissolved in one-half cup boilmg water. 
Steam in buttered tins two hours. 

Sauee ; Two eggs ; one-half cup sugar ; pinch salt ; half teaspoon- 
ful vanilla ; cream together and add one cup of whipped cream. 



,y Google 



ICE-BOX PUDDIKO Eiitherine T. Peck 

Scant one-fonrth cup unsalted butter; one cup granulated sugar; 
cream together. Add 7olks of three eggs, one at a time, rind of one 
lemon, half; and juice of one lemon. Beat the whites of the three eggs 
and add last. Place mixture alternately with lady fingers, three dozen 
lady fingers will serve eight people. Put oil paper in bottom of dish 
to lift pudding out easily. Serve with whipped cream. Place in ice- 
box until thoroughly chilled. Can be made the night before. 

ICE BOX CAKE Mrs. J. F. Nichols 

One dozen lady fingers; one tablespoonful sugar; three eggs, sep- 
arated ; one cake sweet chocolate. Melt chocolate in double boiler with 
tablespoonfnl warm water. Add mixture of yolks of eggs and sugar, 
well beaten, a little vanilla, and lastly well-beaten whites of eggs. 
Dip each lady finger in mixture, arrange in form which has been wet 
with cold water, and fill in. Place in ice box over night. Serve with 
whipped cream. 

ICE BOX OAEZ Mrs. H. S. Mount 

Three cakes sweet chocolate, three tablespoonfuls powdered 
sugar, three tablespoonfuls hot water, two dozen lady fingers. Melt 
chocolate, sugar and water in double boiler and add half beaten yolks 
of six eggs. Cook until thick. When cold add beaten whites of six 
eggs. Line a mold with lady fingers and pour half the mixture on 
them, then fill with lady fingers, repeating with the chocolate mixture. 
Made twenty-four hours before served. JUst before serving, whip 
one-half pint cream and put on top of cake. Grate a little chocolate 
over all. 

SPONGE PUDDINO Mrs. C. A. Carscadin 

One-fourth eup sugar; one-half cup flour; one pint milk; one- 
fourth cup butter; five eggs. Mix sugar and flour, and add milk and 
cook until thick and smooth. Let cool, then add butter. Separate 
eggs, beat yolks until light and fold into mixture. Add whites beaten 
stiflf, and pour into buttered dish. Stand di^ in pan of water and 
bake in moderate oven one-half hour. 

Sauce: One-fourth cup butter; one-half eup powdered sugar; 
four tablespoonfuls cream added slowly, one teaspoonful vanilla. Set 
mixture over pan of boiling water until creamy. 

SUNSHINE PUDDINO Mrs. Carscadin 

One-half cup flour ; one-fourth eup sugar ; one-fourth butter ; one 
pint milk ; five eggs. Mix supar and flour ; add milk ; and cook until 
smooth in double boiler. Take off stove and add butter. Separate 
e?gs, beat yolks and add. Beat whites until stiff and add. Butter 
pan, set in pan of water and bake. 

Sauce : One-fourth eup butter ; one-half cup powdered sugar ; four 
tablespoonfuls cream, added slowly. 



hyCOO^IC 



Pnddinss 

DATE PUDDING Mrs. W. L aoek 

One capful sngar; one capfnl clLopped not meata; one cupful 
dates ! two eggs; one-half cupfiol milk; one tablespoonful flonr and 
one teaspoonfnl baking powder. Bake twenty or thirty minutes in 
moderate oven. When baking the pudding raises beautifully, but 
when done it falls in the center; this is the correct occurrence. 

PEACH PUDDINO Mrs. E. Oliver 

Butter pudding dish. Slice six large peaches in it. Batter: 
One cup sugar,- one egg; one and one-half teaspoonfuls baking powder; 
butter size of an egg ; three tablespoonf uls of milk ; Sour enough to 
make a soft batter. Pour over peaches and bake twenty minutes. 
Serve hot, with cream. 

OBEAM PUDDINO 

One cup nut meats; one cnp dates; cut very coarse. One table- 
spoonful bread crumbs ; one cup sugar ; two eggs, beaten separately ; 
add whites last. Bake twenty minutes in slow oven. Serve cold with 
whipped cream. 

SOUR OREAU PUDDINO Mrs. William H. Fahmey 

One cup brown sugar; two eggs; pinch of salt; one cup sour 
cream; one teaspoonfnl soda; two cups flour; three-fourths cup nuts. 
Bake. 

Sauce : Cream one cup powdered sugar and one-fourth cup but- 
ter; add one egg; one teaspoonfol vaniUa or tablespoonful sherry 
wine. 

APPLE PUDDINO Miss Flora Oill 

One cup sugar; one cnp flour; two eggs; one-half cup of sweet 
milk ; SM a three-pint baking dish with sliced appl^ two-thirds full. 
Add one-half cup of sugar, a little cinnamon, and some water. Bake 
until very tender. When still very hot pour over the top a eake batter 
made as follows : Beat one cup of sugar with yolks of two eggs ; one 
tablespoonful soft butter, and milk and flour. Mix two heaping tea- 
spoonfuls of baking powder with flour before adding to the batter. 
Fold in stiffly beaten whites of the eggs and add extract of vanilla. 
Bake half an hour in a moderate oven. Serve with prepared sanee. 

I.EMON PUDDINO Mrs. W. I. Clock 

Mix three tablespoonfuls com starch; three cups boiling water; 
two cups sugar ; two egg yolka ; juice of two lemons, little grated rind 
of one. Dissolve three tablespoonfuls of com starch in a little cold 
water, add to the boiling water. Have saucepan in water bath. Add 
sugar and lemons, cook for twenty minutes. Remove from flre and 
stir in beaten egg yolks; set mixture in oven for two minntes and 
serve with cream. 



«ibyCoogIe 



Pnddlnsi 

SOtTB MILE BLUEBERRY PUDDINO Mrs. C. S. Junge 

One-half cup sugar; one-quarter cup butter; cream these. Two 
eggs well beaten ; one-half eup sour milk ; one-half teaspoonful soda ; 
one cup flour with one cup blueberries. Bake thirty minutes and serve 
with sauce made with one eup of powdered sugar stirred with one 
tablespoonful of butter and flavored with vanilla. 

CARROT PUDDZNa Mrs. P. D. Swigart 

One and one-half cups flonr; one cup sngar; one cup suet; two 

cups raisins; one cup grated sweet potatoes; one cup grated carrots; 

one teaspoonful each salt and soda. Steam three hours; put three 

tablespoonfuls hot water on soda. 

Sauce: Two yolks of eggs; one eup powdered sugar; cream the 

above. Last thing, add a cup whipped cream. 

CARROT PUDDINa Mrs. Frederick T. Hoyt 

One cup chopped raw carrots; one cap chopped raw potatoes; 

one cup chopped suet; two cups chopped raisins; one cup brown sugar; 

one eup flour; one teaspoonful salt, cinnamon and allspice; a little 

nutmeg ; one teaspoonful soda in about two tablespoonfuls hot water. 

Mix well, put in mold, and steam two and one-half hours ; serve with 

a good pudding sauce. 

Pudding Sauce : One eup sugar ; two egg yolks ; one cup sherry 

wine; beat all until very light, add one pint cream, which has been 

whipped very stiff. 

PRUNE PUDDING Mrs. Eustace 

Whites of five eggs beaten with one-half teaspoonful of salt; add 
one cup of powdered sugar sifted with one even teaspoonful cream 
of tartar. Add five large cooked prunes chopped. Bake twenty-two 
minutes in ungreased custard cups. Set in pan of hot water. Slow 
oven. Serve with whipped cream. 

STEAMED MARMALADE PUDDINa Mrs. T. D. McMicken 

One cup orange marmalade ; one-fourth cup butter ; one-third 
teaspoonful soda; two cups stale bread crumbs. Dissolve soda in a 
little hot water; combine marmalade, one egg, butter, soda, and bread 
crumbs. Pack in a mold. Steam one and one-half hours. Serve with 
marshmallow cream. 

GRAHAM PUDDING Mrs. R. H. Wheeler 

One cup molasses; one cnp sweet milk; two and one-half cups 

graham flour; one cup Sultana raisins; one saltspoonfol salt; two 

teaspoonfuls soda dissolved in warm water. Steam in pudding mold 

two hours. 

Sauce: One egg thoroughly beaten. Add one cup pulverized 

sugar; one cup whipped cream; one-half teaspoonful vanifla. 



Google 



Puddings 

BBOWN BETT7 

Butter the inside of a baking dish, cover the bottom with a layer 
of tart apples, peeled and sliced. Sprinkle this with sugar and cinna- 
mon or nutmeg and put over it a layer of crumbs, strewing it with 
bits of butter. Repeat the layers of apple and crumbs until the dish 
is full, making the top crumbs with an extra quantity of butter. 
Cover the pudding dish,.pnt it in the oven, and bake slowly for twenty 
or thirty minutes ; Tmcover, brown lightly ; serve in the dish in which 
it was cooked, with either hard or liquid sauce. 

SirSPBISE PTJDDINa Mrs. C. E. Upham 

Pour thin slices bread, buttered and cut in squares; one egg; one- 
third cup sugar; four tablespoonfals molasses ; three cups milk; turn 
all over bread. Let stand half an hour and mash well together; then 
bake one and one-half hours slowly. Be careful it does not turn to 
whey. If in a shallow pan, a big hour is long enough. Sauce : Beat 
white of one egg, then beat yolk ; mix, add one cupful sugar, vanilla, 
and beat all together. Beating separately makes it very frothy. 

OHESBY PtTDDINa Mrs. P. D. Swigart 

One-half cup sugar ; one tablespoonfnl butter ; one egg ; one-half 
cup milk or water; one and one-half cups flour; one end one-half tea- 
spoonfuls baking powder. Steam forty minutes, put cherries in cups, 
then the batter. 

Sauce: One and one-half cups cherry juice; one tablespoonfnl 
butter; sweeten; thicken with com starch. 

SIMPLE HASTT FKUTT FUDDDTG Mrs. C. S. Junge 

One tablespoonful butter; two tablespoonfuls sugar; three table- 
epoonfuls flour; one teaspoonfnl baking powder; two tablespoonfuls 
milk; one egg. Turn iiiis mixture over sliced peaches, bananas, 
oranges, blueberries, pineapples or plums and bake twenty minutes in 
moderate oven. Serve with cream or with hard sauce made by rub- 
bing butter and sugar together. 

EOONOmOAL PUDDINO Mrs. Minnie A. Watkins 

Pill a mold vrith dry pieces of cake, alternating layers with 
bananas that have been scraped and cut lengthwise. Kll up mold with 
a boiled custard thickened with yolks of eggs. Put on ice. Serve cold 
with whipped cream. Also serve toasted Brazilian nut meats vrith it. 

PHILADELPHU RICE PUDDINO Mrs. B. Z. Bisbee 

Wash well one-fourth cup of rice. Put in a baking dish vrith one 
quart of milk, four tablespoonfuls of sugar, lump of butter size of a 
walnut ; flavor to taste with nutmeg and cinnamon. Bake in a very 
slow oven four hours ; when it commences to brown on top stir weU, 
Serve cold. 



«ibyCoogIe 



NOONDAY DESSEST 

¥03. SCHOOL CHILDREN Mrs. Minnie A. WatkioB 

Hot steamed rice served with rich canned peaches, and cream, 
either plain or whipped. Serve English walnut meats with same. 

HOTHEB'S BICE PITDDINa Mrs. F. E. Lyons 

One quart milk; three tablespoonfiils riee; three tablespoonfuls 
sugar ; one teaspoonful vanilla. Put in a very slow oven and bake from 
two and one-half hours to three hours. (If heated on top of stove 
before putting in oven, it will save time baking.) 

HONETCOUB PUDDINa Mrs. 0. A. Bowman 

One-half cup brown sugar ; one-half cup milk ; one cup molasses ; 
one teaspoonful soda; two eggs; tablespoonful butter; one cup flour. 
Bake and serve with whipped cream or hard sauce. 

INDIVIDUAL PUDDINGS Miss Nora Edmonds 

One-half cupful flour; one-fourth cupful sugar; one-fourth cupful 
butter; one pint of milk and five eggs. Mix flour and sugar, add milk 
and cook in double boiler until smooth. Remove from stove and put 
in butter. When cold add beaten yolks of eggs and fold in BtifQy 
beaten whites last. Put in buttered pans and hake in water. 

Sauce : One-fourth cupful butter ; one-half cupful powdered 
sugar and four tablespoonfiis cream added. 

TAPIOCA CREAM Mrs. A. H. Schweizer 

Soak one tablespoonful of pearl tapioca until soft in enough water 
to cover it. This will require several hours. Put it into a double 
boiler with a cupful of water and cook until the pearls are clear; drain 
off the water and stir in half a pint of grape juice heated, one table- 
spoonful sugar, and cook ten minutes longer. Serve with cream when 
cold. 

ENGLISH PUDDINa Mrs. William Molt 

One-half pound suet; one quart milk; two eggs; one pound cur- 
rants ; one pound raisins ; one cup nut meats, chopped fine ; two tea- 
spoonfuls baking powder; one teaspoonful salt and flour enough to 
make a stiff batter. Steam for four to five hours. Serve with foam 
sauce. 

Foam Sauce : White of one egg ; enoogh confectionery sugar to 
make stiff and enough hot water to make it smooth. 

ORANGE PUDDING Mrs. H. B. Rairden 

In bottom of pudding dish lay slices of cake; cover with slices 
of oranges. Make a custard of one small cup sugar ; one tablespoonful 
com starch ; one pint of milk and a small piece of butter. Pour over 
the cake and oranges and bake. 



« by Google 



ENGLISH PUDDING Miss J. Eliza BaU 

One cup molasses ; one-half cap sugar ; one-half cup butter ; two 
eggs ; one cup milk. Spice and fruit. Flour enough to make a stiflE 
batter. Soda and cream of tartar or baking powder as preferred. 

Liqnid Pudding Sauce : Beat one egg and one cup of Trhite sugar 
to a froth. Make a very thin batter with one pint of water and 
butter the size of an egg. Pour butter boiling hot over egg and sugar 
just as it goes to the table. 

CHSISTHAS PUDDINa Mrs. Joel H. Norton 

Chop the meats from one pound English walnuts ; chop one pound 
figs; one pound raisins seeded; one cup suet. Bub the above well in 
flour; grate one nutmeg into three cups flour and one teaspoonful salt. 
Moisten with one oup milk. Dissolve well one teaspoonful soda in 
one cup molasses, and add last with one tablespoonful brandy. Dip 
a square of cloth in boiling water; then quickly flour center. Mold in 
form of a ball and tie securely with string. Boil three or four hours 
in boiling water in very large kettle or boiler. Hang up to dry and 
when thoroughly dry place in jar with an apple to keep &om molding. 
Make a week or two before you wish to use it. Boil it in boiling hot 
water for one hour when ready to use. Any sauce will do, but whipped 
cream sweetened with maple sugar is delicious. Brandy can be 
poured over pudding and set on fire it you wish, if served at table. 

NUT PUDDING Mrs. R. B. P. Kline 

Two cups flour; one-half cup sugar; two teaspoonfula baking 
powder; one-half teaspoonful salt; two eggs well beaten; one cnp 
milk ; one and one-half enps English walnuts blanched and broken or 
chopped ; one-third cnp melted butter. Grease mold well and steam 
three hours. 

Sauce: One and one-half cups sugar and three-fourths cup water 
boiled until it threads. Then pour over the well beaten yolks of three 
eggs, stirring all the time. When cool, add flavoring and two cups 
whipped cream. 

NUT PUDDING Miss Julia Hunt 

Two cups boiling water ; one and three-fourths cups brown sugar, 
boil ten minutes. Two and one-half tahlespoonfuls (heaping) com - 
starch mixed well with one-third cup cold water ; add to boiling syrup ; 
boil a few minutes until mixture thickens, then add one-half cup 
broken walnut meats and vanilla. Pour into molds and chill. Baisina 
and currants may be added if desired. Serve with cream or whipped 
cream. 

PUDDING SAUCE Mrs. B. P. Morrow 

One cap brown sugar; one-fourth eup butter; yolks of two eggs; 
one-half cup cream; cook to a custard. Add beaten whites, and one- 
fourth oup brandy. 



,d by Google 



PuddinKs 

PTTDDINa aAUCE Mrs. Weatherell 

Blend one tablespoonfol butter, one cup Bugar and white of one 
egg (do not beat egg separately). Dissolve one tablespoonful com 
starch and a little salt and add to one pint of boiling Trater. Let 
cook ten minutes. Then add the batter, egg and sugar, and whip 
nntU foamy. Flavor to taste. 

PUDSINa SAUOE Mrs. H. D. Sheldon 

Two eggs; one cup powdered sugar; one cup cre»m; a pineb of 
salt. Beat eggs and gradually add sugar until a smooth creamy con- 
sistency. Just before serving add whipped cream. 

FBUZT SAUCE Ura. May F. Kenfield 

For steamed or baked puddings : One-half cup of butter and one 
and one-hf^ cups of powdered sugar; cream together and add yolk 
of one egg. Then to this add a cupful of crashed strawberries or any 
fruit in season. 

HAKD SAUCE Mrs. W. D. Hurlbat 

Four tablespoonfuls butter; eight of powdered sugar; frothed 
white of one egg ; half a glass of wine. Cream butter and sugar to- 
gether ; add wine, then white of the egg. Set in a coot place to hArden. 
Grate nutmeg over top. 

GRAPE SAUCE 

Remove the pulps of the grapes from the skins, boil the pulp until 
the seeds can be separated, strain through a collander, add the skins, 
and boil five minutes, after which add two-third^ the amount in sugar. 
Boil twenty minutes, stirring constantly. 

STRAWBESET SAUCE 

One-half cup butter; one cup sugar; then add one cup crashed 
strawberries. This can be made only in strawberry season. 



,d by Google 



PnddlnK* 



,d by Google 



FROZEN DISHES 



"Seek roses in December, ices in June." 

— Btbon. 



NES8EIA0DE FUSDINa Miss Agnes Seiber 

Three cups milk; one and one-lialf cups sugar; yolks five eggs; 
one-half teaspoonfnl salt; one pint cream; one-fourth cap pineapple 
syrup ; one and one-half cup prepared French chestnuts. Make cos- 
tard of first four ingredients, strain, cool, add cream, pineapple syrup 
and chestnuts ; then freeze. To prepare chestnuts, shell, cook in boil- 
ing water until soft, and force through a strainer. Line a two-quart 
melon mold with part of the mixture ; to remainder add one-half cup 
candied fmit cut in small pieces, one-quarter cap Sultana raisins, and 
eight chestnuts broken in pieces, first soaked several hours in Mara- 
schino syrup. Fill mould, cover, pack in salt and ice, and let stand 
two hoars. Serve with whipped cream, sweetened and flavored with 
Maraschino syrup. 

BUOASOON lOE OBEAM Mrs. Q. Shelly 

Roll nntil fine one-half pound dried macaroons ; add one-half cup 
sherry wine, let stand three hours. Whip one and one-half pints 
heavy cream until solid, then fold in macaroons. Cook one cup of 
sugar and one-half cup water for two minutes; cool and add to one 
quart thin cream, combine mixtures, add three-fourths tablespoonfnl 
each vanilla and almond extracts and a pinch of salt. Freeze, pack 
in mold and let stand in ice and salt from two to three hours. 

FBOZEN PEACHES Miss B. L. Chandler 

One can or twelve large peaches, two coffee cnpfuls sugar; one 
pint water and the whites of three eggs beaten to a stiff froth; break 
the peaches rather fine and stir all the ingredients together ; freeze the 
whole into form. 

STBAWBERHY ICE CBEAM 

Three pints thin cream; two boxes berries; two cups sugar; few 
grains salt. Wash and hull berries, sprinkle with sugar, cover and 
let stand two hours. Mash, and squeeze through cheese-cloth; then 
add salt. Freeze cream to consistency of mush, add gradually fruit 
juice, and finish freezing. 



■ by Google 



ZVosen Dishe* 

I>£&CH ICE OREAM Mra. B. J. Roolston 

One quart peaches, one pint milk, two cups sugar, one pint cream. 

Put sugar ju peaches and dissolve before sifting. Mix and rub through 

a potato ricer after sugar is dissolved. Add thjIIt and cream. Freeze. 

CHOCOLATE lOE OSEAH 

One quart thin cream; one cup sugar; few grains salt; one and 
one-half sqnares Baker's Chocolate or one-fourth cup prepared cocoa; 
one tahlespoonful vanilla. Melt chocolate, and dilute with hot water 
to pour easily, add to cream ; then add sugar, salt and flavoring, and 
freeze. 

¥ia ICE CBEAH Mrs. George Lomaz 

Three cups milk; one cup sugar; yolks five eggs; one teaspoonfnl 
salt; one pound figs, finely chopped; one and one-half cups heavy 
cream ; whites five eggs ; one tahlespoonful vanilla ; two tahlespoonfuls 
brandy. Make cnstarid of yolks of eggs, sugar and milk ; strain, add 
figs, cool and flavor. Add whites of eggs beaten until stiff and heavy 
cream beaten until stiff ; freeze and mold. 

lOE OREAH Mrs. Everett Mayuard 

One quart cream, one pint milk, two eggs, two cnps sugar, one- 
half cnp fljur. Sift flour and sngar ; beat eggs and milk and cook in 
double boiler. Strain, and add vanilla to taste. 

PINEAPPLE CBEAH 

Two cnps water ; one cup sngar ; one can grated pineapple ; two 
cups cream; make syrup by boiling sugar and water fifteen minutes; 
strain, cool, and add pineapple, and freeze to a mush. Fold in whip 
from cream ; let stand thirty minutes before serving. Serve in trappe 
glasses and garnish with candied pineapple. 

HAPLE PARFAIT Mrs. Earl Oombs 

One eup of maple syrup ; three eggs ; a pinch salt ; two cups 
whipped cream; one teaspoonful lemon juice; beat eggs very light, 
bring maple syrup to boiling point ; pour it on the epgs, beating while 
pouring. Cook all together until thick, then set aside to cool. When 
cool, add whipping cream, mix thoroughly, turn into mold, cover 
closely and bury in ice and salt for three hours. 

ANOEL PAEFAIT Mrs. Frank A. Simmons 

Boil together one-half cup sugar and one-half cup water until a 
soft ball can be formed. Wliip whites of three eggs until foamy but 
not stiff; pour symp in a fine stream over them, beating until cold. 
Add one tahlespoonful vanilla. Fold in one pint thick cream, beaten 
stiff. Turn into a quart mold and pack in salt and ice for four hours. 
Serve in high glasses and decorate with candied cherries. 



■ by Google 



Froien Dishes 



OATE PABFAIT L. E. Kennedy 

One pint whipping cream ; t^o tablespoonfnls black coffee ; sngar 
to taste. WMp mitil stiff ; pnt into a colander to drain. Pack in ice 
for three honrs. 

aSAFE FABTAIT 

Pnt one cup of sugar over the fire with half a cup of grape-juice, 
bring to a boil and cook until it will spin a thread from the tip of the 
spoon. Have ready the yolks of thwe eggs, beaten well, pour the 
grape- juice syrup upon it, and add two caps of whipped cream. Turn 
into a mold, pack in ice, salt and leave for three hours. 

ntOZEN PUDDINa Mrs. K T. Gary 

Two-third quart milk, two tablespoonf ols flour, two tablespoonfuls 
gelatine, two eggs, one pint cream, two cups granulated sugar, one- 
half pound apricots or cherries, vanilla to taste. Soak gelatine in 
warm water two hours. Pnt milk in double boiler and scald. Stir 
eggs, flour and one cup of sugar together and add to milk. Cook 
twenty minutes. After it is cold add gelatine, cup of sugar, cream and 
vanilla. Freeze. 

BXSQXTE Mrs. Henry Thayer 

One pint of cream whipped ; three e^s beaten separately ; one and 
one-half pints of sugar ; one tablespoonfnl vanilla, stir gently together, 
pnt into ring mold and pack in ice and salt for five or six hours. 

FROZEN FRUIT 000ETAIL8 

Peel, seed and chop three large oranges ; shred or chop one fresh 
pineapple or a can of the fmit; peel and mince fine three bananas. 
Pour over all one capful of grapejuice, sweeten the mixture to taste, 
and tnm into a freezer. The fruit must not be frozen too hard, but it 
should be well chilled and partially congealed. Serve in fruit cock- 
tail glasses, with or without whipped cream on top. 

GRAPE WATER lOE 

Boil one qoart of water and one pound of grannlated sugar for 
five minutes without stirring after the boil is reached. Add to this 
two cupfuls of grapejnioe, the jnice of two oranges and of two lemons, 
and the grated peel of one of each fruit. Timi into a freezer and 
frecM slowly. 

PnrBAPPLE SHERBET 

Soak a tablespoonful of gelatine into two tablespoonfuls of cold 
water and pour over this one pint of boiling water. Set aside until 
cold. Add to it one cupful of sugar, one can of chopped or shredded 
pineapple, and half a pint of grapejuice. Freeze. Serve in sherbet 
glasses. 



■ by Google 



Froi«m IHshe* 



OHOOOLATE SAUOE TOK ZOE OSEAM Mrs. E. OUver 

Two Bqnares bitter chocolate; ooe cup hot water; one-half cup 
Bn^r; one teaspoonfol Tine^r; pinch of salt and flaroring, boil ten 
misnteB. 

TEA 8HEBBET Hn. A. H. Wagoner 

Make half a pint of Ceylon tea ; after five minutes standing, drain 
off the tea and pnt it aside nntil cold. Add one pint of grapejniee, 
half a enpfnl of white sugar, and turn it into a freezer. When half 
frosen, put in a dozen quartered Maraschino oherries, and continue to 
freeze until the mixture is so stiff that the dasher will not turn. Pack 
for an hour before using. 

TKVn SHERBET 

One-half envelope Knox sparkling gelatine ; one orange ; one and 
one-half cups sugar; one lemon; three cnpa rich milk. Grate the ont- 
Bide of both orange and lemon. Squeeze ont all the juice, add to this 
the sugsr. When ready to freeze, stir in the milk slowly to prevent 
curdling. Take part of a cup of milk, add the gelatine. After stand- 
ing five minutes, place in a pan of water (hot) until dissolved, then 
stir into the rest of the milk and fmit juice. Freeze. This makes a 
large allowance for five persona. 

AFRIOOT SHERBET Miss Maude Higgins 

One quart apricots; one quart milk; one pound sugar. Pnt fmit 
through soup sieve. Then mix all together and freeze in ice cream 
freezer. 

MILE SHERBET Mra. Harry Hankins 

One and one-half quarts milk, one eup cream, one pint sugar. 
Partly freeze. Add juice of three lemons and two oranges, whites of 
two eggs, beaten stiff. Tnm freezer slowly until frozen. 

A DELIOIOire SHERBET 

Whip one-half pint cream very stiff, sweeten with confectionery 
sugar ; set away to chill. Chop fine one large banana, one orange, one- 
half cup English walnuts, one-half cop preserved pineapple, one-half 
large marshmallow. Just before serving beat the fruit and nut mix- 
ture through the cream and serve at once in sherbet eups with a cherry 
on top. I^ongh for six persons. 

MAPLE HOnSBE 

Yolks four eggs beaten very light ; heat one cup of maple syrup 
in double boiler, when hot stir into the beaten yolks, and pnt back into 
double boiler and cook until thick. When cold mix lightly with one 
pint of cream whipped. Turn into mold and pack in ioe and salt for 
four hours. 



,d by Google 



Frotmm. Diabes 



PEAOH HOUSSE Mrs. J. H. Sluinler 

Whip one pint of thick cnam tmtil it is fluffy; add one onpful 
of Eagax and one teaspoonful vanilla. Mash np a pint can of peaches 
and mix them in with the cream. Poor this mixtnre into a mold that 
has been wet with cold water. Pack the mold in eqttal parts of 
chopped ice and coarse salt and let it stand for foot hoars, when it 
will be ready to oBe. 

HAPU MOITSaE Mrs. T. D. McMieken 

Two-thirds cap maple syrap; two 'eggs; one-third qaart cream; 
beat yolks ten minates, add ayrap gradnally and put in double boiler 
and cook twenty minates. Beat whites till dry, poor cooked yolks and 
syrup over while hot, and set to cool. Whip cream and poor cold 
cooked syrup over, being careful to only fold in. Put in mold and 
pack in ice and salt, half and half, two or three hours. 

GXAFE MOUSSE 

Whip stiff one pint of cream, sweetening it as you whip it with 
three-quarters of a cup of powdered sugar. When the cream is stiff 
and finn, fold in half a cupful of grapejuice, pack the miztore in a 
mold in ice and salt, cover this closely, and let it stand for three or 
four hoars. 

GATE MOUSSE L. E. Kennedy 

Yolks of five eggs; one-half cupful coffee; one cupful sugar; one 

pint whipped cream. Pack in freezer and let stand four or five hours. 

0A7E MOUSSE Genevieve Maoklem 

One pint of whipped cream, very stiff, one-half cup hot coffee, 
very strong; one-half cup sugar; two eggs, yolks beaten with sugar; 
pour coffee on yolks and stir until cool or beat Pour this on whipped 
cream and add whites of two eggs well beaten. Pour into mold, cover 
tight, and pack in salt and ice for five or six hoars. 

OllANOE PUKOH 

Juice of six oranges and grated rind of one. Mix with one pint 
water, one cup sugar and one cup cherries, bananas and chopped nuts. 
After this is well frozen, take oat dasher and beat in one-half pint of 
whipped cream. Bepack and let stand for three or four hours. 

OOOOA FBAFPE 

Mix half a poond of cocoa and three cupfuls of sugar; eook with 
two cupfuls of boiling water until smooth; add to three and a half 
quarts of scalding milk (scalded with cinnamon bark) ; cook for ten 
minates. Beat in the beaten whites of two eggs mixed with a cupful 
of sagar and a pint of whipped cream. Cool, flavor with vanilla ex- 
tract, and freeze. Serve in cups. Garnish with whipped cream. 



^0' 



>gk 



Frosen IMsbe* 



PXNEAFPLE FBAPPE 



Two caps water ; one cup Bngar ; jnioe three lemons ; two caps ice- 
water ; one can shredded pineapple or one pineapple, shredded. Make 
sjrmp by boiling water and BQgar fifteen minutes ; add pineapple and 
lemon juice ; eool, strain, add ice-water, and freeze to a mush, using 
equal parts iee and salt. If fresh fruit is used, more sugar will be 
required. 

FROZEN EOO-NOG Mn. Will J. Davis 

Put one quart of milk, a good sized stick of cinnamon ; six doves 
and six whole allspice in a double boiler and scald. Beat the yolks 
of a dozen eggs until thick and light, gradoally adding two cups of 
sugar, beating constantly. Add one-half teaspoonful each of salt and 
nutmeg. Strain spices from milk and pour milk slowly into the egg 
mixture, continue beating. Cook over hot water, stirring constant, 
until tluck enough. Bemove from stove, cool, ^en add three pints 
thick cream and freeze slightly. When about to serve add one-fourth 
cap each of Jamaica mm and cognac. 

FRUIT PUNCH Mamie Johnson 

Two cups sogar; one-half cup orange juice; one cup water; one- 
half cup lemon juice; one cap strawberry juice; one cup pineapple 
juice and one-haU cup maraschino cherries. Boil sugar and water to 
a syrup and add the fruit.juices. Let stand twenty minutes and strain 
and chUL Add whole cherries. Sweeten to taste or weaken if neces- 
sary. Serve ice cold. 

OBANBERRT PUNCH Mrs. Frank Qermaine 

Stew one quart of berries until soft. Pass through a sieve ; add 
to pulp juice of three oranges, one tablespoonful liquid from mara- 
schino cherries and sugar to sweeten. Cook twenty minutes, cool and 
freeze. Qamish each cup with a teaspoon of whipped cream, candied 
cherries and a mint leaf. Set sherbet cups on plates and serve with 
lady fingers. 

WATERIIELON ZCE Mrs. Charles S. Clark 

Put watermelon pulp in potato ricer and squeeze juice out of it. 
For one quart of liquid add juice of two lemons and sugar to taste. 
Freeze. 

LEMON ICE Sue C. Woodman 

Juice four lemons; two cups sugar; strain juice into sugar; let 
stand two hours on ice ; one pint milk or cream. Freeze. 

LEMON ICE Mrs. Alice Snively 

Four cups water, two cups sugar, tbree-fourtbs cup lemon juiee. 
Make a syrup of the sugar and water. Add lemon juice. Freeze. 

104 ,- J 

r - iX.oogle 



Frosen Diahe* 

0&AHOE lOE 

Foot cups water; two onps en^r; two caps orange jnice; one- 
fourth cup lemon juice ; grated rind of two oranges. Make syrnp by 
boiling water and sngar for twenty minutes; add fruit jnice and 
grated rind ; cool, strain and freeze. 

ALMOND ZOE 

Two pints milk; eight onnces cream, two onnces orange-flower 
water ; eight ounces sweet almonds ; fonr ounces bitter almonds. 
Pound all in marble mortar, pourinfif in from time to time a few drops 
of water ; when thoroughly poonded add the orange-flower water and 
half of the milk ; pass this, tightly squeezed, through a cloth ; boil the 
rest of the milk with the eream and keep stirring it with a wooden 
spoon; as soon as it is thick enough, pour in the almond milk ; giro it 
one boiling, take it off and let cool in a bowl or pitcher before pour- 
ing it into the mold for freezing. 

FBOZEN LEMONADE Mrs. Frederick T. Hoyt 

Boil one poxmd of sngar in one pint water for five minntes, add 
one pint of cold water, the grated rind of one lemon, and the strained 
jnice of four. Turn into a freezer, and torn until frozen like snow, 
serve in lemonade glasses, and topped with a piece of candied or fresh 
lemon. 

LEMON lOE Belle Shaw 

Juice of four lemons; whites four eggs; two cups sugar; two cups 
water; one tablespoonfnl gelatine. Add gelatine to whites of eggs; 
mix sugar, water and lemon juice together, then add to beaten whites 
of eggs, and freeze. 

THBEE-OF-A-EIND lOE L. E. Kennedy 

Three oranges; three lemons; three cupfuls sugar; the whites of 

three eggs and three cupfuls water. Freeze. This will serve twenty. 



,d by Google 



Fro>en IHshe* 



,d by Google 



BREAD 



"Here is bread which strengthens men's liearU, 
And, therefore, » aOled 'The Staff of Life.' " 



SPOON BSEAD Ubi? S. VanzwoU 

One cap buttermilk ; one cup boiled rice ; one-halt cup com meal ; 
one egg; one tablespoonful melted lard or batter; one-half teaspoonfal 
Boda in water; salt. Bake in mediam oven thirty minates. 

OATMEAL BREAD Mrs. F. W. Bentley 

One eake compressed yeast; one qaart flour, half white and half 
oatmeal floor; one tablespoonful brown so^ar; one teaspoonfal salt; 
one tablespoonfol drippings of bacon, melted (hot) ; one-half cap 
molasses; pat in half water and half milk enoagh to make a Btin 
batter. Let it rise and mold into two loaves. Let rise to half its size, 
and bake in moderate oven thirty-five minutea. 

NUT BREAD Mrs. Stevens 

Foot cups flour ; one cup sugar ; two cops nuts ; two and one-half 
eupa milk; one egg; foor teaspoonfols baking powder; one teaspoon- 
fal salt. Mix diy ingredients together. Beat egg, add milk to egg 
and pour in the flour, stirring as little as possible. Make in two loaves 
and let stand covered twenty minutes. Then bake in moderate oven 
forty minates. 

NUT BREAD Mrs. T. M. Butler 

Sift foor ciqts of floor, one cop of light brown sogar nfted three 
times, one cop of pecans chopped, foor tea^oonfols of baking pow- 
der; one teaspoonfal salt. All dry mixture work with hands, add one 
and one-half cups of sweet milk, one egg beaten light, place in pans, 
let stand twenty minotes. Then bake forty-five minutes. 

NUT BREAD Mrs. H. D. Sheldon 

Two cops of graham floor; one cup of white floor; three tea* 
noonfols of baking powder ; one teaqtoonful salt ; one-third cop sogar, 
nfted together. One tablespoonful melted butter; one and three- 
foortbs cop of milk ; one cop of English walnots. &Gx in order given. 
Bake in bread tin about an hour. 



hyCoogle 



NUT BKEAD Mrs. W. F. Barnard 

Three caps floor; four even teaspoonfola baking powder; one cap 
BOgar; one teaspoonful salt; one egg; one and one-luU£ cups sweet milk; 
one enp nut meats. Bake slowly one hoar, 

KTJT LOAT Mrs. R McNeU 

Two cnps of flour; three-fonrtha cap of sugar; one-half tea- 
spoonfol salt; three-fourths eup walnuts crushed; three teaspoonfnls 
baking powder; one egg. Beat egg with milk; add to the mixed and 
sifted dry ingredients, let rise half an hour, and bake. 

GBAHAM BBEAD Mrs. John T. Gilchrist 

One cup white flour; two cups graham flour; one teaspoonfnl 
salt; one tesApoonful soda; one-half eup dark mola^es; one and one- 
half cups sweet milk; one cup seeded raisins. Bfike in a slow oven 
for forty-five minutes. 

BAISm GEAHAH BREAD Mrs. Clara A. BaMwin 

One-half cup to one cup seeded raisins; one egg; two-thirda cup 
molasses; one rounding teaspoonful soda dissolved in a little hot water; 
two cups milk ; four eups graham flour. Mix and bake one and one- 
half hours in ^ow oven. 

BAISm BBSAS Mrs. T. D. MeMicken 

One and one-half cups sour milk; one and one-half teaspoonfols 
soda; one-fourth cup molasses; one-half teaspoonfnl salt; graham 
flour till stiff enough to drop from spoon. One-half cup raisins. 

SOUTHERN BROWN BREAD Sue C. Woodman 

One and one-half cups sour mUk ; one level teaspoonful soda : scant 
cup brown sugar; two cups graham flour; one cup raisins; out 
spoonful salt ; bake one hour. 

BOSTON BROWN BREAD Mrs. Emma G. Portskan 

Two cnps milk, sour ; two cups graham flr .r ; one eup wheat flour ; 
three tablespoonfuls molasses or sugar; on3 teaspoonful soda. Take 
pound baking powder cans, lard them well and £11 two-thirds foil; put 
on lids and set in a kettle which is half full of boiling water ; put on 
the kettle lid and keep boiling three hours; replenishing often with 
boiling water. 

BOSTON BROWN BREAD NO. 2 Mrs. M. A. Stewart 

One cup sweet milk; one cup sour milk; one eup New Orleans 
molasses ; one-half teaspoonful salt ; one teaspoonful soda ; one cup com 
meal; two cups grahiun flour. Add a few raisins whidi greatly imr 
prove tiie flavor. Pat in a five-pound pail, set in cold water (one 
qoart). Ftom time it commences to boil let cook for three hours. 

108 I 

DOgle 



K7 MOTHEK'S BBOWN BBEAD Mrs. Grant Beebe 

One cup molasses ; one cnp milk (sweet or sonr) ; one cup of gra- 
ham flour and one cap com meal, stiff; two cups raisins, two eggs; two 
even teaspoonfola soda ; one tablespoonfnl brown sngar ; one teaspoon- 
ful salt Bake one konr in moderate oven. 

JOHNNY CAKE Mary S. Vanzoll 

One cnp sweet milk; two eggs; one dessert spoonful of sngar; 
one-half cnp yellow com meal; one-kalf cnp flonr to make like cake 
batter; one-fourth cup melted butter; salt; heaping teaspoonful bak- 
ii^ powder. 

OOBN OAEE Mrs. J. L. Putnam 

Scald one cup white com meal with one pint of milk; while hot 
add one tablespoonfnl of buttered bread crumbs, one of sugar and a 
little salt. The yolks and whites of three eggs beaten separately. Pour 
into a well buttered frying pan and bake twenty minutes in a hot 
oven. 

OOBN HEAL GEMS Mrs. K. Larson 

One-half cnp com meal; one cup flour; three teaspoonfuls baking 
powder; one tablespoonful sugar; one tablespoonfol melted butter; 
one-half teaspoonful salt; three-fourths cup milk; one egg. Mix and 
sift dry ingredients; add milk gradually and egg well beaten and 
melted butter. Bake in hot oven in buttered gem pans for twenty-five 
minutes. 

OO&N GEMS Josephine Hnrlbnt 

Put two eups of com meal into a bowl ; pour over one cup of boil- 
ing milk ; add a tablespoonful butter ; cover the bowl, allow the mixture 
to stand until cool ; add another cnp of cold milk ; the yolks of two 
eggs, well beaten; one-half teaspoonful salt; half cupful flour, and 
two teaspoonfuls baking powder. Beat thoroughly, then fold in the 
well beaten whites of two eggs. Bake in gem pans in a moderately 
quick oven tiiirty minutes. 

BAEXNG POWDEB BISCUITS Mrs. H. B. Bairden 

Thirteen tablespoonfuls flour; one teaspoonful salt; four level 
teaspoonfuls baking powder; one tablespoonful lard; rni x together 
with milk enough to make dough. 

PASEEB HOUSE BOLLS Mn. H. B. Foster 

Scald one pint of milk; one yeast cake put in warm water; two 
tablespoonfuls sugar; two tablespoonfuls butter; one teaspoonful salt; 
three cups flour; mix. Baise until double; then add flour to make 
soft dough. Baise again, and make in roll pans and raise again. 
Bake in hot oven. 



,d by Google 



OATUEAL OEMS Mrs. Hem? Croaaman 

Two tablespoonfols left-over cooked oatmeal, beat in one egg, 
oDe-hal£ cup sweet milk, one teaspoonfol baking powder, one scant 
enp flour, pinch salt. B^e in kot oven in iron gem pans fifteen 
minutes. 

XJGHT BISCUIT Mrs. A. J. Atwater 

Take a piece of bread dougk that will mAke as many biscuit as 
you wish; lay it out rather flat in a bowl; break into it two eggs, 
one-luilf cup sugar; bne-kalf cup butter. Mir this thoroughly with 
enough flotu* to keep it from sticking to hands and board. Kuead 
well for fifteen to twenty minutes; make it into small biscuits; place 
in greased pan and let rise until they are even with top of pan. Bake 
in quick oven for half an hour. 

POTATO BISOUIT Mrs. H. S. Mount 

One cup of milk; three potatoes (cooked and riced) ; one table- 
spoonful lard; one teaspoonful butter; one and one-half teaapoonful 
salt; two teaspoonfuls sugar. Let cool and add one cake yeast dis- 
solved in lukewarm water. Two eggs well beaten; four cupa flonr; 
let raise three hours. Then roll out about one-half inch thickness. 
Butter, cut, turn over with silver knife and shape like parker house 
rolls. Baise two hours more and bake about ten minutes. Will make 
about fifty rolls. 

SOtTTHERN POTATO BISOUITS Mrs. GrauviUe Richardson 

Three cups flour ; three tea&poonfnls baking powder ; one teaspoon- 
ful salt ; one cup hot mashed potatoes ; three tableepoonfuls butter or 
other shortening; one-half cup milk; one egg. Mash the potatoes 
through a strainer, add salt, milk, butter or shortening and then the 
egg well beaten. Beat until smooth, then sift in the fiour and baking 
powder. Turn on a floured board, cut with small biscuit cutter, put 
into hot oven and bake twenty minutes. 

"ABBIE'S" OOBN BREAD Mrs. Edward E. Swadener 

One cupful com meal; one cupful fiour; one-third cupful sugar; 
one teaspoonful baking powder; salt. Put these through flour sieve, 
add one tablespoonful melted butter. Beat one egg very light in a 
cup, add enough milk to fill the cup, stir this in the fiour; tixen add 
one-half cup more of milk. Use your judgment about quanti^ of 
milk. Bake either in one pan or in m nffin pan. 

HUrmrS Mrs. John M. Stahl 

Beat three eggs and add two cupfuls milk; one quart of floor; 
two heaping teaspoonfuls baking powder; one tablespoonful sugar; 
one teaspoonful salt; one tablespoonful melted lard put in the last 
thing. Bake twenty minutes in a hot oven. This makes eighteen 



,d by Google 



AFTERNOON TEA BOLLS Mrs. G. N. Eastman 

One cap hot maslied potatoes; one eup sugar; one cup melted 
batter; one cake compressed yeast; four egdfs; one cup lukewarm 
water; flour enough to knead. Soak the cake of yeast in lukewarm 
water at noontime. Put sugar in bowl with masked potatoes at 
same time. Then at night put these together. In the morning, add 
melted butter and eggs well beaten. Stir in enough flour to knead 
and let rise until light. Make into small tea rolls and let rise 
until very, very light. Bake twenty-five minutes in moderate oven. 
Cream powdered sugar and butter to a paste and spread on top of 
rolls just before serving. 

OATMEAL MUT7INS Br. Y. Bacine 

One and one-fourth cups cooked oatmeal; one and one-fourth 
cup bran flonr ; two heaping tablespoonfols white flour ; one heaping 
teaspoonful baking powder ; one saltepoon salt ; two heaping 
tablespoonfuls coeoanut ; one-half cupful raisins (seeded) ; two eggs 
beaten light. Mix the eggs and cooked oatmeal; add the dry in- 
gredients. The dough should be very stiff. If too moist, use more 
bran. Bake in your gem pans or muffin rings in a moderate oven. 

BRAN UimiNS Josephine Hurlbnt 

Two cups bran; two cupfuls flour; two teaspoonfnls salt; two 
cupfols sour milk or buttermilk; one-balf cup sugar; one tablespoon- 
ful shortening; one egg; one and one-half teaspoonfuls baking soda; 
one teaspoonful baking powder; one-half cup water. Beat shorten- 
ing, egg and sugar together until creamy ; to the sour milk add the 
soda dissolved in boiling water; then the bran, flour, salt, baking 
powder and the egg and sugar mixture. Mix thoroughly and divide 
into buttered gem pans and bake in a hot oven for twenty minutes. 
Sweet milk may be used by substituting three teaspoonfuls of baking 
powder for the soda and baking powder specified above. 

HUrriNS Mrs. Harry M. Boon 

One and three-fourths enps flonr; one-half cup sugar; one egg; 
two teaspoonfuls baking powder and three-fourths cup milk. Stir ^1 
together and bake in muffin tins in hot oven. 

MUFFINS Mrs. Thomas H. Iglehart 

Two cups milk; two eggs; three cups flour; three spoons baking 
powder; pinch salt. Beat eggs, add milk; then flour, into which bak- 
ing powder has been put. Bake in hot oven. 

BLUEBESKY MUFFINS Esther Blade 

Beat one egg ; add one cup sweet milk ; two tablespoonfuls sugar ; 
one pinch of salt ; one and one-half cups of flour with two teaspoonfuls 
baking powder; one cup blueberries floured. Grease tins. Bake in hot 
oven about twenty minutes. 



..byGoogle 



MUFFINS Mrs. Qeorge D. Hilligan 

Big Bpooufal of sliortemng (bntter or sTibstHute) ; one egg ; three 
tablespoonfols sngar; one cap milk; two enps flour; three tea^oon- 
fuls baking powder. Bake twenty or twenty-five minutes. 

COLD WATEK HDFFINB Mrs. Edward E. Swadener 

One-half pint of cold water put in a bowl and break two egga in 
it, beat it nntO it froths ; then add one cupfol floor, one scant teaspoon- 
fol salt. Bake in a moderate oven for^-five minntes. 

BALLT Unm Mrs. J. P. Cobb 

One cap milk. Quarter cop butter; one-half cup sugar; two eggs 
beaten separately ; teaspoonfnl baking powder (sifted in the flour) ; 
enough floor to make the batter. Bf^e in quick oven. 

FEENOH OOFFEE OAEE Mrs. H. P. Sieb 

One cup butter and lard mixed; one cup granulated sugar; two 
eggs ; one cup milk ; two cups flour (sifted) ; two teaspoonfuls baking 
powder; one teaspoonful vanilla; or one-half teaspoonful nutmeg to 
suit taste. Bake flfteen to twenty minutes. 

Frosting: One-half cup granulated sugar; one tablespoonfnl 
flour ; one tablespoonfnl butter ; one tablespoonfnl cinnamon ; mix all 
together and spread over top of cake before baking. 

OOFFEE OAKE Mrs. Crouch 

One egg; two tablespoonfnls each of butter and sugar; one cup 
milk; two cups flour; two teaspoonfuls baking powder. Put in pan, 
melt two tablespoonfnls bntter and pour over Uie top, then sprinkle 
tbickly with granulated sugar and cinnamon. 

OINNAHOH OAKE Mrs. C. E. TTpbam 

One scant cap sngar; two eggs; one teaspoonful salt; one table- 
spoonful fat or substitute; one cup milk; two cnps flour; two tea- 
spoonfuls baking powder. Bake twenty minutes ; take out and spread 
butter on top ; edso cinnamon and sugar, mixed. Put back in oven one 
minute. 

dNHAHON BOLLS Mrs. A. J. Atwater 

One quart bran; one pint graham flour; one teaspoonful salt; two 
teaspoonfuls baking powder; one-half teaspoonful soda; one pint sour 
milk ; scant half pint molasses ; one tablespoonfnl melted butter ; one 
cap nut meats. Bake one hour. 

BREAKFAST PUFFS Mrs. E. N. Wflder 

One pint sour milk ; one teaspoonful soda ; flour enough to make 
stiff enough to roll. Fry like doughnuts. Eat with symp. 



■ byGoogle 



TOAST PATTY OASES Mrs. A. J. Atvat«r 

Cut tile cmst from a sioall loaf of baker's bread; divide into two 
or two and one-half inch slices ; toast on all six aides. With a sliarp 
knife cut arotmd the inside edge of one side and carefully scoop oat 
the bread, leaving a bottom and four toast sides. You can brush the 
inside with melted butter and brown if yon wish or use as it is. Use 
as patty sheUs. 

YORKSHISE P17DDIN0 Mrs. J. L. Putnam 

Sift one even teaspoonful of salt and one of baking powder twice 
with a pint of flour. Beat two eggs light and add to two cups of 
milk; turn in the sifted flour and mix quickly. Have ready in a 
roasting pan six tablespoonfuls of fat reserved from the drippii^ 
from the roast of beef. Set it upon the upper grating of the oven. 
When it begins .to bubble hard, pour the batter into it and cook 
quic^y. Cut into squares and serve with the roast 

TOBKSHntx PUDDnra to serve with boast beef 

T/Ltb. C. a. Caracadin 
Two cups of flour in a bowl with half a teaspoonful salt; beat 
three eggs and stir into the flour; add two cups milk; stir until 
smooth ; turn into a pan with some beef drippings and bake thirty to 
forty minutes. If beef is placed on a rack put the pudding under 
the roast. Cut in squares and serve with the roast. 

P0P0VEB8 Mra. W. L Qock 

One cup of flour; one-fourth teaspoonful salt; seven-eighths cup 
of milk; two eggs; one-half teaspoonful of melted butter. Put all 
into a bowl together and heat for five minutes with egg beater. Grease 
muffin pan well, bake in hot oven for thirty minutes. Oven must not 
be hot before putting popovers in. 

POPOVEBS Mrs. B. F. Morrow 

Three eggs; one-half teaspoonful salt — beat light; one cup flour; 
one cup milk. Bake one-half hour in hot buttered tins. Makes eight 
popovers. 

IBEHOH PAN0ASE8 Mrs. Charles T. Daily 

One cup flour; three eggs, very well beaten separately; a pinch of 
salt; mi l k enough to make a real thin batter. Save skUlet very hot 
and greased and spread batter thin. 

BANAITA PAITOAXES Mrs. C. S. Junge 

Mash three bananas to a pulp. Beat two eggs well Add two 
teaspoonfuls of sugar and pinch of salt. Jn two cups of sour milk 
put small teaspoonful of soda. Mix all together and stir in enough 
floor to make a thin batter and bake on a griddle. 



« by Google 



BAW POTATO PANCAKES Mrs. E. B. Hornig 

Peel and grate abont eight medicm sized raw potatoes, add one 
scant teaspoonfol salt, two well beaten eggs. Mix thoroughly. Fry 
in lard on hot griddle to a rich brown color on both sides. 

POTATO PANCAKES Mrs. P. B. Woodland 

Boil three medium sized potatoes. Dry and mash. Add two eggs, 
beaten; one cup flour; one cup milk; one-half teaspoonfol salt; dash 
pepper; two teaspoonfnls baking powder. Fry in buttered pan. 

BBEAD PANCAKES Mrs. E. R. Hornig 

Cover haU a small loaf of stale bread with sour milk, let stand 

over night. Add one tablespoonful salt, two teaspoonfnls soda, two 

eggs, and enough flour to make proper consistency. Fry on hot griddle. 

SOFT WATTLES Mrs. Thomas Meeks Butler 

Sift together one quart of flour, two teaspooufuls of baking pow- 
der; one teaspoonfnl of sugar; one-half teaspoonful salt; mix in one 
tablespoonful of butter, add two well beaten eggs. Beating the yolks 
together, then the whites of the eggs to a stiff froth. Add the yolks 
and one and one-half pints of milk. Add the whites of the eggs after 
mixing the whole into a smooth batter not too thin and pour into 
well greased irons. 

WA7FLES V. P. Hollenberger 

Mix one pint ilour : one pint milk to a smooth paste. Add small 
cup butter, barely melted. Add to this the well beaten yolks of three 
eggs, then the beaten whites. Just before baking, add one teaspoon- 
ful baking powder, heat well for two minutes, and bake on very hot 
iron. 

WAFTUSS Mrs. J. P. NicoU 

One pint of milk; one-half cup butter; three eggs; flour enough 
to make batter ; salt ; two heaping teaspoonfnls baking powder. Mix 
milk, butter, yolks of eggs — stir, then add flour and salt. Stir in 
beaten whites of eggs. Just before cooking add baking powder. Beat 
briskly. 

WAFFLES Mrs. Charles T. Daily 

Two cups flour; two teaspoonfnls baking powder; one teaspoon- 
fnl salt; three tablespoonfuls melted butter; one and one-half cups 
milk; three eggs. Bift dry ingredients, add yolks, well beaten, milk, 
butter and stiffly beaten whites. Beat well and cook on a hot waffle 
iron, well greased. 



« by Google 



OAKBIE WATEIN8' WATTLES Bertlia Z. Bisbee 

Three eggB; two cups milk; three tableBpoonfuls melted batter; 
three cups flour; one teaspoonful sngar; two teaspoonfuls baking 
powder ; pinch of salt. Beat whites and yolks separately ; add milk to 
yolks, then salt, sugar and butter, then fiour and baking powder. 
When the iron is hot, fold in the well beaten whites of eggs and bake 
immediately. 

GLORIFIED HOE CAKES Mrs. Archy S. Corken 

(This recipe won a $10,00 Tribune pme for wartime conservation 
recipes.) • 

Two cups yellow oommeal ; one teaspoonful salt ; three and one- 
half cups buttermilk ; cottage cheese ; one cup flour ; one tablespoonfol 
sugar; one teaspoonful soda; green pepper. Sift together commeal, 
flour, salt and sugar into a bowl. Pour three cups buttermilk (or sour 
milk) over the sifted ingredients, and beat well. Dissolve one tea* 
spoonful soda in one cup of sour milk and beat thoroughly into the 
butter. Spread on well greased hot griddle and fry until little bubbles 
cover the surface. Turn quickly. Have ready some cottage cheese 
seasoned with salt and pepper in which has been mixed chopped green 
pepper or pimento. Spread one-half inch thick on top of hoe cake. Cut 
cake into quarters and serve on hot plate. This recipe makes four 
griddle size cakes. 

AMBEB STBUP Mrs. Harry M. Boon 

One cup brown sugar; two cups granulated sugar; two cups boil- 
ing water. Boil five minutes and when cool add ten drops vanilla. It 
is hard to distii^nish this trom maple syrup. 



D,gt,ZBdbyCOO<^Ie 



abiGoogle 



CAKES 



"Now, now the mirth comes 
With the cake fuU of plums." 

— Hebbiok. 



HABSHHAUiOW OAEE Mra. J. H. Shanlej 

One-half cap batter; one and one-half caps sagar; two and one- 
half caps floor; one-balf cap milk; two level teaspoonfuls baking 
powder; five eggs; one teaspoonfal vanilla. Bake in lajers and spread 
with the marBhni&llow paste between layers and on top ; also marsh- 
mallowB cat in half. 

Marshmallow Paste: Three-foortlui cap sugar; one-foarth cap 
milk, boiled together six minates. Melt one-foarth pound marshmal- 
low8, add two tablespoonfals water; combine with the boiled sugar 
and milk, add vanilla and beat until stiff enough to spread. 

OOIJ> CAKE Via. Charles S. Daily 

One and on»-half cups sugar; three-fourths cup butter; four yolks 
of eggs ; three whites of eggs ; three-fourths cup milk ; two cups flour ; 
two teaspoonfuls -baking powder; one teaspoonful flavoring. Cream 
batter and sugar, then add the beaten yolks of eggs, add flavoring to 
this, then add milk and floor alternately, first sifting flour and baking 
powder together. Beat the whites of eggs to a stifE froth and add last, 
folding them in gently. Bake in a lof^ cake pan forty minutes in a 
modem oven. 

OOOOANUT OBEAM OAKS Mrs. H. S. Mount 

One-half cap butter; one and one-half cup sugar; one cup cold 
water; three cups sifted floor (sifted three times); two heaping 
teaspoonfuls bakmg powder; whites four eggs beaten stiff; flavor with 
vamlla. Cream batter and sugar. Add one-third water and beat 
thoroughly; then add one cup floor and beat again. Add second one- 
third cup of water and second cup of flour and continue beating. 
Into last cup of floor add baking powder and add last one-third cup 
of water with the last cup of flour and beat thoroughly. Then flavor 
and fold in the beaten whites of eggs; carefully put in three layer 
tins. Grate a whole coooanut. Whip one pint of cream. After cakes 
are cool put whipped cream on first layer, then cover with freshly 
grated cocoanut. Continne the same until the last layer is well cov- 
ered with whipped cream, and then cocoanut. 



hyCOO^IC 



OBANQE OAEE Mrs. Martin K Northam 

Oue-tliird cap butter ; one cap sagar ; grated rind of one orange ; 
one-half cup milk or water; one and one-half caps sifted pastry flour; 
two level teaspoonfuls baking powder; yolks of two eggs, beaten 
light ; whites of two eggs, beaten dry. This makes two small layers. 
Filling: The unbeaten white of one egg; add to this one-fourth 
cup orange pulp and juice, with the rotary egg beater gradually beat 
in one and one-baU cups powdered sugar, beating it slowly. When 
that is stiff enough to hold ita shape spread upon the cake. Long 
beating makes this icing spongy and white. 

EOOLESS OAKS Mrs. W. H. Muachlet 

One cup apple sauce, unsweetened; one teaspoouful soda; one 
cup of sugar; one-half cup butter; one and one-half cup flour — de- 
pends on consistency of apple sauce ; one teaspoonful ground cinna- 
mon; one teaspoonful ground allspice; one-half teaspoonful cloves; 
one-half teaspoonful nutmeg; one-half cup citron, cut in small pieces; 
one or over cups of nuts. Mix flour, nuts and citron well. Cream 
butter and sugar till it pops; add apple sauce; which turns brovra. 
Then add spices, flour, nuts and citron. Bake in moderate oven in 
flat pan about 35 minutes, probably 40 minutes. If preferred iced, cut 
in squares. Make double quantity, as the longer kept the better. 

LAD7 BALTIMORE CAKE Mrs. L. B. Maxwell 

Take one cupful of butter ; two cupfuls sugar ; three and one-half 
cupfuls of flour; one cupful sweet milk; whites of six eggs; two tea- 
spoonfuls baking powder; and one teaspoonful rose-water. Cream 
the butter, add the sugar gradually, beating oontinually; then the 
milk and flavoring; next the flour and baking powder and lastly 
the stifQy beaten whites of eggs, which should be folded into the 
dough. Bake in three layer cake tins in quite hot oven. To make the 
flUing, dissolve three cups of sugar in one cupful boiling water ; cook 
it until it threads ; then pour it onto the stif^ beaten whites of three 
eggs, stirring constantly. To this icing add one cupful of chopped 
raisins, one cupful of nutmeats (pecans preferred) and five flgs cut 
into very thin strips. This makes enough icing for top and sides of 
cake. 

TUTTl ntUTTI CAKE Mrs. Wm. J. Maiden 

Two tablespoonfuls butter; one cupful sugar; one cupful milk; 
one egg; two cupfuls flour; two heaping teaspoonfuls bakhig powder; 
one-haU cupful dates (pitted and chopped) ; one-half cupful English 
walnuts, chopped; one-half capful raisius or flgs (or both), chopped; 
three tablespoonfuls chocolate or cocoa ; one teaspoonful vtmilla. This 
makes two layers. 

Filling : Three cupfuls 4x sugar ; three tablespoonfuls coeoa ; six 
tablespoonfuls melted butter; six tablespoonfuls hot coffee; one tea- 
spoonful vanilla. Mix well and put on cake. 



by Google 



CBEAH OAKS Mrs. W. S. Holabird 

One-haU cnp bntter ; one cup sugar ; 7olks of two eggs beaten 
%ht; one and three-fourths cups sifted pastry flour; two level tea- 
spoonfuls baking powder ; one-half cup cold water ; whites of two eggs 
beaten dry ; flavoring to suit. 

Cream Filling: One-fourth cup sifted flour; one cnp hot milk; 
one-third cnp sugar ; one-fourth teaspoonful salt ; one egg beaten light ; 
one ounce chocolate ; one teaspoonful vanilla extract. Mix flonr and 
salt with a very little cold milk ; stir into the hot milk and cook ten 
minutes, add the chocolate and stir until it Is melted and evenly 
blended with the flonr mixture. Then beat in the egg mixed with 
the sugar, and lastly the vanilla. 

LADT irNGES CAKE Mrs. C. A. Bowman 

Five eggs, beaten separately; six lady fingers, browned and 

grated; three-fourths cup almonds, ground fine; one cup sugar; vanUla 

to taste. Mix all together, putting in stiffly beaten whites last. Bake 

in two layers in moderate oven. 

Filling: Yolk of one egg; one and one-half teaspoonfuls com 

starch; sugar and vanilla to taste. Spread between layers and put 

whipped cream on top. 

WEABT WILLY Mrs. 0. A. Carscadin 

Whites of two eggs broken in a cup ; enongh soft batter to make 
the cup half full ; fill the cup with milk. Sift one and one-half cups 
pastry flonr; one cup sugar; two teaspoonfuls baking powder and 
pinch of salt. Turn the cnp of liquid into the dry ingredients, flavor 
and beat ten minutes. Bake in rather slow oven in layers or loaf. If 
well beaten this is a delicious, flne grained cake. 

SUNSHINE OAKES Charlotte Fangbnm 

Seven eggs; the whites and yolks beaten separately and very 
stiffly. Then add one-fourth teaspoonful each of salt and cream of 
tartar; then fold in one cup of sae&T sifted three times; also one cup 
of flonr sifted three times, then flavoring, preferably orange flavor. 
Bake in a slow oven forty-flve minutes. 

DBLUnOUS WETTE OAKE Mrs. W. F. Barnard 

One and ona-half cups sugar; one-half cup butter; one eup sweet 
milk; two cups flonr; one teaspoonful baking powder; whites of four 
eggs. Cream sugar and butter, add milk, then flour and baking powder. 
LMtly, add whites of eggs, stirring very little after whites are in. 

VfUi'HE OAKE (LATER) Mrs. Snap 

Whites of eight eggs; one and one-fonrth cups of granulated 
Btigar: one-half cnp water; three-fonrtha cup butter; two and one-half 
cups flour; two heaping teaspoonfuls of baking powder. Flavor. 



V. 



oogle 



SmfSHINE CAKE Mary Roberts 

Whites of seven ei;^; yolks of five eggs; two-thirds cnp floor, 
sifted five times; one cnp sugar; one pinch s^t; one-third teaspoonfnl 
cream of tartar; extract to taste. Beat whites very stiff, then add 
sagar; beat lightly, then add yolks beat thoroughly ; add Soar, stir 
lightly; th^i add extract Pnt cream of tartar in egga when hall 
beaten. 

aOOD LATEE OAEE Urg. H. D. Sheldon 

One cnp sugar; one-half cnp bntter; two eggs; one cop milk; 
two and one-half cnps floor; two teaspoonipls baMng powder; flavor- 
ing. Cream sugar and butter, add eggs beaten lightly, then milk. 
Sift flour three times before measuring, baking powder with flour in 
flnal sifting. 

GOOD LAYER OAEE itn. VT. F. Barnard 

One-half cup butter; one cnp sugar; one-half cup sweet milk; 
three eggs, beaten separately; one and one-half cnps flour; one and 
one-half teaspoonfuls baking powder. Cream butter and sugar; add 
milk, yolks, flour and baking powder, and fold in whites. Bake in two 
layers or loaf, 

ORAFTON OAEE Mrs. Floyd E. Jenmson 

Beat two tablespoonfuls of bntter (or substitute) to a cream; 
add gradually one and one-haU cups of sugar ; the yolks of two eggs 
(beaten light) and one cnpful of warm water. Stir in two and one- 
half cnps of pastry flonr and beat continuously for flve minutes. Add 
two teaspoonfuls of baking powder, one of vanilla and beat again. 
Now add the atifSy beaten whites, folded in carefully. Bake in two 
layers. 

THE ROBERT E. I£E OAEE Mrs. Deborah Kaufman 

Three eggs ; one cup sugar ; one-half cnp hot water ; one and one- 
fourth cups flonr; one teaspoonful baking powder; the grated rind of 
one orange. Beat sugar and yolks of e^s with small portion of orange 
peel and half of the beaten whites of eggs. Add hot water, and last 
the sifted flour with baking powder, and pinch of salt. Bake in two 
layers in hot oven. 

Filling: The rest of the grated rind of orange, half cup sugar, 
the remaining whites of eggs ; whip together and place between layers 
while cake is hot. 

ORUHB OAKE Mrs. A. Donald Campbell 

One cnp sugar; one onp flour; one-half cnp bntter; mb all to- 
gether with one-half teaspoonfnl cinnamon and nutmeg ; one-half tea- 
spoonful salt. Set aside one-half cnp of mixture. Then to portion left 
add one good sized cup of flour, two teaspoonfuls baking powder, 
one-half cup of milk, one egg. Mix thoroughly and pnt in baking 
pan and sprinkle the mixture, set aside, on top and bake slowly. 



jogle 



WHEATLESS SPONGE OAEE Sabin School 

Four eggs; three-fotirtbs enp sugar; one-foorth cap com starch; 
one-fourth cup potato floor; one-fonrth teaErpoonful Tamils. Beat 
whites of eggs stiff, add sugar and beat again. Add yolks beaten 
separately; fold in com starch and potato flour sifted together; add 
TUiilla. Bake in slow oven thirty-five minutes. 

SPONQE OAKE Mrs. E. P. Bowen 

Two eggs, well beaten together; one enp sugar, beat into eggs 
for five minutes; one cup flour; one heaping teaspoouful baking 
powder iU'flour; one-half cup boiling water added last. Put into oven 
immediately. 

FKUME CASE Mrs. 0. B. Martin 

One and one-half cups sugar and two tablespoonfula butter 
creamed; yolks of three eggs; white of one egg; add one cup chopped 
prunes, sweetened and cooked ; English walnuts ; one teaspoonful cin- 
namon; one-fourth teaspoonful cloves; little nutmeg; one cup sweet 
milk; level teaspoonful soda; heaping teaspoonful baking powder; two 
and one-half cups flour. Makes three layers. 

Icing: Cream two eups pulverized sugar and one tablespoonfol 
butter ; add whites of two eggs beaten stiff. 

WAB CAKE Mrs. M. A. Flanders 

One-balf cup com syrup ; four scant tablespoonfula butter ; one- 
half cup milk; one egg, wlute and yolk beaten separately; fourteen 
graham crackers rolled flne; two tablespoonfuls flour; one teaspoon- 
ful baking powder; one-half teaspoonful vanilla; two tablespoonfuls 
chopped nuts and two tablespoonfuls raisins. 

EOOLESfl, Mn.KT.K8B, BUTTEBLESS OAEE Mrs. C. E. Seaton 

Put in a saucepan one cupful of brown sugar; one cupful of water, 
two eupf uls of seeded raisins ; one-third cupful of lard ; one teaspoon- 
ful of cinnamon, one-quarter teaspoonful nutmeg; one-half teaspoon- 
ful doves, ground, and a pinch of salt. Place over the Are and boil 
for five minutes. Let cool, then add one teaspoonful sods dissolved 
in a little hot water ; two cupfuls flour, in which one-half teaspoonful of 
baking powder has been sifted. Put in a loaf cake pan and bake one 
hour in a moderate oven. 

BUTTEBLESS, EGOLESS, MILELESS OAKE Mrs. M. A. Flanders 
Two cups raisins ; one-half teaspoonful allspice ; one-half teaspoon- 
ful cinnamon; two tablespoonfuls shortening; one-half teaspoonful 
salt; one cup boiling water; one cup brown sugar; one-half cup dates; 
boil five minutes ; when cool, add two cups flour, one teaspoonful bakii^ 
soda, dissolved in warm water. Bake in a loaf. 



■ by Google 



BLUEBEKBT CAKE Mrs. HeniT' CroHaman 

One quart of fionr; three tablespoonfols sugar; one teaspoonfnl 
baking powder; pinch of salt; two eggs; two GQpfnls m ilk ; piece of 
butter size of egg. Scatter baking powder, salt and sugar into floor 
and sift well, add the beaten eggs, melted butter and miJk ; stir all to- 
gether a few minutes, then add berries, slightly floured. Bake in long 
square tin for twenty minute or half an hour. 

SPONGE OAEE Mrs. Earl Combs 

Three eggs; four tablespoonfuls of cold water: one cup pow- 
dered sugar; one eup flour and a pinch of salt; two teaspoonfnls 
baking powder; beaten whites of two eggs; bake in loaf or layers. 

na CAKE Mrs. J. £. KeUy 

One-half cup raisins ; one-half cup figs, cut fine ; a level teaspoon- 
fnl soda; one cup boiling water. Sit to one side while mixing; one 
cup sugar; one-half cup butter; one egg; one teaspoonfnl lemon ex- 
tract; one heaping teaspoonful cinnamon; one-half teaspoonful cloves; 
two cups flour; add first mixture and bake in moderate oven. 

Frosting: One and one-half cnpa powdered sugar; one-half cup 
butter, creamed together; two tablespoonfols grated chocolate; two 
tablespoonfuls strong coffee; one teaspoonful vanilla. Do not cook 
frosting. 

LAYEK CAKE WITH APPLE PILLINO Mrs. W. F. Becker 

Three tablespoonfuls hotter; one scant cop sugar; one scant cap 
milk ; yolks of two egga ; one one-f oorths cops flour ; two teaspoonfuls 
baking powder; one teaspoonful vanilla. Cream butter and sugar and 
add eggs ; beat five minutes ; add milk ; then add flour sifted with bak- 
ing powder ; add vanilla, and beat flve minutes and pot in two layer 
pans, pot filling between layers and on top. 

Filling : Whites of two eggs ; one-half cop sugar ; two large grated 
apples ; one teaspoonful vanilla. Beat one-half hour. 

APPLE SAUOE CAKE Mrs. H. D. Sheldon 

One-foorth enp butter ; one cup sugar ; one egg yolk ; one teaspoon- 
ful cinnamon ; one-half teaspoonful doves ; little nutmeg ; one eup ap- 
ple sauce ; one level teaspoonful soda ; one eup raisins ; two cups flour ; 
pinch of salt. Cream butter and sugar, add egg well beaten and soda 
dissolved in the apple sauce ; add raisins, mixed with flour and spices. 
Frosting; One cup of confectioners' sugar; two tsblespooufoU 
melted butter, enough hot water to spread. 

DATE OAEE Mrs. Edward S. Smith 

One cup of dates chopped flue; sprinkle over them one eup of 
boiling water, and one scant teaspootrful of soda. Let stand while 
you mix the cake. One cup of sugar; one tablespoonful of butter; one 
and one-third cups of floiu ; one-half eup of nut meats ; vanilla. Mix 
and add dates. Bake slowly thirty-five minutes. 



■ by Google 



CHOCOLATE rUDOE CASE Mrs. J. Q. Sherer 

Dissolve two ounces chocolate in five tablespoonfals boiling water. 
Cream one-half cup bntter, adding gradually one and one-half onpfols 
sugar; add yolks of four eggs, beaten thoroughly, then add the choco- 
late; one-hsjf cupful milk; one and three-fourths cupfola flour; two 
level teaspoonfuls baking powder; one teaspoonful vanilla and add 
beaten whites last. 

lulling: Two cups sugar; one cup milk; one-half cup chocolate; 
bntter size of a walnnt. Boil until thick enough and beat until rather 
stiff. Spread on cake. 

CHOCOLATE CAKE Sharlotte Pangburn 

Two cups of brown sugar; one-half cup of butter; one-half cnp of 
sour milk; two eggs. Cream this together. Then dissolve one tea- 
spoonful (level) soda in one-half cup of hot water; one teaspoonful 
baking powder. Grate one-third cake of Baker's chocolate ; add hot 
water and soda and stir with cake. Lastly add two heaping cups of 
flonr. For layer or loaf cake. 

CHOCOLATE CAKE Mrs. T. C. Hollenberger 

One-half cake chocolate ; three-f onrthn cup brown sugar ; one-half 
cup sweet milk; cook until smooth. Add one teaspoonful vanilla. 
When cold, add to the following : Cake one-half cup butter, one cup 
brown sugar, two eggs, one-half cup milk, one and one-half cups flour, 
one teaspooi^ul soda. Beat whites of egga separately. 

OBAHAM CRA03SXB CAKE Mrs. Paul Klein-esel 

One-third cup butter ; one cup of sugar ; three-fourths cnp milk ; 
three egga beaten separately ; one package of graham crackers, ground 
fine ; one cnp of nuts, one walnut ; two teaspoons baking powder. Bake 
in two layers for twenty minutes. 

HICKORT NUT CAKE Mrs. William S. Wood 

One and one-half cupfuls sugar; one-half cupful butter; one cup- 
ful sour milk; one teaspoonful soda; two eggs; three ffupfnls flonr; 
one cupful stoned raisins ; one and one-half cupfuls nut meats, cut up, 
and one teaspoonful cinnamon. 

POTATOE CAKE Mrs. William Molt 

One cnp cold boiled potatoes, grated; two cups flour; one cnp 
grated chocolate; two cups sugar; three-fourths cup bntter; one-half 
cup each of chopped almonds and raisins ; one-half teaspoonful each of 
ground cloves, cinnamon and vanilla ; five eggs, beat in one at a time ; 
one cup sour cream, or milk; one teaspoonful soda. Bake one hour. 

LIZZIE 'S NO-EGO CAKE Mrs. C. A. Carscadin 

One cup soar milk ; one teaspoonful soda ; one cup chopped raisins ; 
two cups flour; one teaspoonful each of cinnamon and cloves; one 
cup granulated sugar ; one-half cup butter and a pinch of salt. 



t^)OgIe 



POOa HAK'S OAEE Mrs. K. Xiaraon 

One tablespoon butter; one cup sngar; one teaspoonful soda; one 
teaspoonful baking powder; two caps floor; one cnp raisins; two tea- 
spoons vanilla; one teaspoonful all^ice; one cnp sour milk; one egg 
beaten. 

BYE BREAD TOBTE Mrs. Harry M. Boon 

Pour eggs, separate yolks and whites; three-fourths cup butter; 
one &nd three-fourths cups each of sugar and rye bread. Let the rye 
bread dry 90 it can crumble. Baked in two layers with whipped cream 
between makes a very rich cake. 

DABE OAEE Mrs. C. A. Carscadin 

One-half cup brown sugar ; one egg ; one-quarter cup each of but- 
ter, molasses and strong coffee ; one and one-quarter cups flour ; one- 
half cup each of raisins and currants; one-half teaspoonful each of 
soda, cinnamon and doves; one-quarter teaspoonful mace. Mix to- 
gether in above order and bake. 

DEVIL'S OAEE Mrs. B. H. Wheeler 

Part 1: One cup light brown sugar; one eupful Baker's choco- 
late (two squares) ; one-half cupfnl milk ; thoroughly cook in double 
boiler and when cool mix with part 2. 

Part 2: One-half cupfnl butter (scant) ; one cupful brown sugar; 
yolks of three eggs ; one-half cupful milk ; two cupfuls flour ; one tea- 
spoonful soda dissolved in two tablespoonfuls warm water. 

Chocolate Frosting: One cupfnl sugar; butter size of a walnut; 
four tablespoonfuls cream ; desaertapoonfu! vanilla ; two squares 
Baker's chocolate. Cook in double boiler slowly. 

White Frosting : Whites of four eggs ; two cupfula sngar ; two ta- 
blespoonfuls water ; one cup nutmeats ; two teaspoonfula vanilla. Cook 
six or seven miqutes in double boiler. 

DEVIL'S rOOD OAEE Sue C. Woodman 

Tolk of one egg; one-half cup milk; two squares Baker's choco- 
late; one tablespoonfnl butter. Cook till thick. Add one cnp sugar; 
one-half cnp milk; one-half cup flour; one teaspoonful soda; one tea- 
spoonful vanilla ; bake in two layers. 

Filling : One tablespoonfnl cocoa ; one tablespoonful com starch ; 
one-half cup sugar; a smaU piece butter; one-half cnp chopped raisins; 
one cnp milk; one teaspoonful vanilla. Cook until thick. 

8PI0E OAEE Mrs. Harry M. Boon 

Three-fourths cup sour milk ; three-fourths teaspoonful soda ; ono 
cup sugar ; one-half cup ebopped raisins ; one-quarter cup chopped wal- 
nut meats; piece of butter size of an egg; two eggs; two level tea- 
spoonfuls cinnamon; one-half teaspoonful each nutmeg and ginger; 
one and one-half cups flour, sifted. Bake in medium oven three-quar- 
ters of an hour. 



,d by Google 



SOUTEEBN FORK OAEE Miss Kstharine Orr 

One-half pound fat salt pork, minced; one and one-half pounds 
seeded raisins; three eggs; five caps floor; one cup nnt meats; two 
caps (large) sugar; one cap of molasses; one teaspoonful soda in dry 
flour ; two teaspoonfuls cinnamon in dry floor ; one teaspoonfol cloves 
in dry floor. Pour one pint boiling water over salt pork in bowl, and 
add all ingredients, whip eggs and pot in last next to flour. Bake one 
hour. 

mtS. ROOSEVELT'S KECIPE TGB. SPIOE OAEE 

Mrs. Theodore Roosevelt 
One cup butter ; two cops sugar ; one cup milk ; four eggs ; four 
cnps floor; two teaspoonfuls Royal Baking Powder; one teaspoonful 
ground cinnamon; one-half teaspoonfol nutmeg. 

BLACK FBUrr OAKE Mrs. N. L. Hurlbnt 

Four pounds dried brown sugar ; one pound floor, browned ; three- 
fonrths poond hotter ; one wine glass each of milk, mixed with one of 
brandy and one of wine; one teaspoonfol of soda; one cnp molasses; 
three poonds corranta; three pounds raisins; one pound citron; ten 
eggs; two teaspoonfuls each ^spice and cloves; two tablespoonfols 
cinnamon and one whole notmeg. Cream hotter and sogar together ; 
mix soda in the milk with the brandy and wine ; then molasses and 
spices ; beat eggs separately. Put paper in bottom of pans and bake 
in slow oven two honrs. 

OimTAHON OAKE Bertha Z. Bisbee 

One cup each of granulated sugar and milk; two cops floor; a 
pinch of salt ; one tablespoonful hotter or lard ; two teaspoonfols bak- 
ing powder ; one egg. Put batter in pan, sprinkle brown sugar thickly 
over the top, also cinnamon; put lumps of butter all over top. Bakes 
in about fifteen minotes. 



,d by Google 



a b, Google 



FILLINGS AND ICINGS 



OOOOANTTT FILUNO 

Boil together one cupful sngar and one-half cupful water until 
the? form a soft ball when tested in cold water; poor slowly while hot 
into the stiffly beaten whites of two eggs, beating all the time. When 
stiff sdd one teaspoonful vanilla extract and one cupful cocoanut. Put 
between layers of a cake. 

CUSTAfiD FILLINO. 

Dissolve two tablespoonfuls cornstarch in a little milk, put in 
double boiler with a Bcant cupfol milk and one teaspoonful butter; 
stir until it begins to thicken; beat the yolks of two eggs and one- 
half cupful sugar until very light ; pour on some of the boiling cus- 
tard ; now turn this back into the double boiler and stir a few minutes, 
adding flavoring. When cool spread between layers of cake and 
sprinkle cocoannt or ground nuts over ; cover top of cake with thin 
layer of the custard and sprinkle with nuts. 

OBAHQE PILLnrO Miss Edmonds 

Mix one-half eup sugar and two tablespoonfuls flour ; add grated 
rind of one-half orange and one-quarter cupful of orange juice and 
one-half tablespoonful lemon juice; one egg, slightly beaten; melt one 
teaspoonful butter and add the mixture, stirring constantly until it 
reaches the boiling point. Cool before using. 

MAPLE FZLLINO Mrs. Louis Oeyler 

Two-thirds cup maple syrup, fill up eup with water; add one- 
fourth eup sugar; one-fourth cnp cornstarch, and one-fourtti cup but- 
ter. When cool add one-half pint bottle whipped cream. 

UOGHA FILLHTQ Sue C. Woodman 

One tablespoonful butter; one tablespoonful cocoa; one table- 
spoonful cold coffee; one and one-fourth cup powdered sugar; one tea- 
spoonful vanilla. 

UOCHA FILUNa 

One-half pint milk; one-half cup black coffee; one-half cup sugar; 
yolks of three eggs ; three tablespoonfuls blanched almonds chopped 
fine. Icing of three whites and chocolate. 



,d by Google 



Fllllnea and loinga 



UOCHA CASE ITLUNO Mrs. Louis QayUr 

One large enp strong eofEee ; two-thirds cup sugar ; one tablespooU- 
fnl cornstarch; cook until clear. Before takuig off stove, add large 
dessertapoonfnl of butter. When cool, add one-half pint bottle cream 
whipped. 

FZGTiLLnra 

Cook in a double boiler one-half pound figs, finely chopped; one- 
third cnpf ul sugar ; one-third cupful boiling water and one tahlespoon- 
ful lemon juice, until thick enough to spread. 

NUT FILLHTO for cake Mrs. E. B. Blew 

One cup sour cream, one cup hickory nuts chopped fine, one cup 
sugar. Cook in double boiler till thick enough to spread. 

SOUS GSEAH rXLUNG FOB LATER CAKE Mrs. W. F. Becker 

One cup SOOT whipping cream; one-hall cup sugar; one-half cap 
walnuts chopped ; one teaspoonfnl vanilla. 

LEMOK FILLZNO Mrs. Q. D. Prentiss 

One cupful sugar; one egg; one tablespoonful butter; juice and 

grated rind of one lemon. Boil over hot water until thick and creamy. 

LEMON XOma Mrs. J. T. Wilcox 

Whites of two eggs beaten to a froth, one pound powdered sugar 
and one lemon grated. 

WHITE lOING AND FILLINO Mrs. De Vries 

Cook together one and one-half oupfuls sugar and one-third cupful 
water until it threads ; let cool a little and break in the whites of two 
eggs well beaten. Beat until cold and put between layers and on 
top. 

HABSHKALLOWIOINa Mrs. W. D. Hurlbut 

One cup granulated sugar; one-fourth cup water; stir until dis- 
solved and boU until it forms soft balls when dropped into cold water. 
One-half pound marshmallows in double boiler with two tablespoon* 
fnls hot water, stir until melted ; now pour hot syrup gradually into 
this mixture, beating constantly, add flavor, heat until cold. 

GHOOOLATE lOING Mrs. E. O. Cooley 

One cupful granulated sngar ; one egg ; three tablespoonfuls sweet 
milk; two squares Baker's chocolate. Stir the whole egg, unbeaten, 
into the sugar; add the milk and grated chocolate. Cook, stirring con- 
stantly, for three minutes; Savor with one teaspoonful vanilla. Let 
cool before putting on Cake. 

D,gl,zedbyGOO<^le 



FUliass and lelaci 



CHOCOLATE CREAM FBOSTINa Miss Nora Edmonds 

Beat the whites of two eggs ; stir into them enough powdered sn* 
gar to make a smooth paste ; add one teaspoonful vamlla. Spread on 
cake. Melt enough bitter chocolate to make a coating over tins. 

QUICK lOHra Miss Shay 
Fonr tablespoonlols butter creamed, add six tablespoonfuls su- 
gar ; spread on cake, using a knife dipped in hot water to make it 
smooth. _ , J 

BOILED ZCZNO ' ' 

Two oupfuls sugar, one-fourth teaspoonful cream of tartar and 
one-half cupful cold water. Stir until it boils. When it just drops, 
beat in seven teaspoonfuls to the stiffly beaten whites of two eggs; 
then boil the syrup until it threads, add to the eggs, beating all the 
time. 

PBOITIOINO 

Into one-fourth cupful of orange, lemon or other strained fruit 
juice rub as much sifted confectioner's sugar as will form a amooth, 
glossy icing ; it must be thick enough to be applied without running. 

TUm FBtnn IOINO Mrs. A. Donald CampbeU 

Mix with boiled icing one ounce each of citron, candied cherries, 
seedless raisins, pineapple and almonds cut very fine. 

TUTTI TSVm FILLING 

Three cupfuls 4x sugar; three tablespoonfuls cocoa; six table- 
spoonfuls melted butter; six tablespoonfuls hot coffee; one teaspoonful 
vanilla. Mix well and put on cake. 



,d by Google 



FUIlnsa and lelitss 



,dbyGoogIe 



COOKIES 



WALNUT JUUBLES 

One and one-half cupfuls of sifted pastry flour ; one teaspoonful 
of baking powder; one-half enpful of grannlated sngar; one-quarter 
cupful of butter; one-half cupful of shredded walnuts; one egg; one- 
quarter cupful of milk. 

Method: Sift flour, baking powder and sugar together, rub but- 
ter in as for pie pastry. Beat egg well and add milk. Beat this into 
the flour, then add nuts. Knead lightly and roll half an inch thick. 
Now strew sugar over, press down with rolling pin and cut into small 
rings with a doughnut cutter, 

SPIOE JUHBLES 

Use the recipe of Walnut Jumbles with these Tariations : Take 
three-quarters cupful of mixed chopped nuts, one teaspoonful of mixed 
spices, cinnamon, cIotcs and allspice, and if need be add more milk 
if dough gets too thick. Top may be strewn with chopped nnts also. 

ANISE TEA CAKES 

Four eggs; one pound of fine granulated sugar; one pound of 
sifted pastry flour; one teaspoonfnl of fine anise seed. 

Method : Beat eggs and sugar for at least half an hour, then beat 
in gradually as much of the flour that is needed to be able to handle 
at once. Take onto a floured board and using rest of flour kneed and 
roll about half an inch thick and cnt with small round cutters. Now 
brush flat tins with melted wax, strew anise seed over and place the 
cakes half an inch apart. Let stand over night, then bake a golden 
color. They will look as though they were frosted. 

CHILDREN'S SPONGE CAKES Mrs. C. A. Garacadin 

One and one-half cnps flonr; two teaspoonfnls baking powder; 
one cup sugar ; two eggs broken in a cup and cup fliled with milk or 
cream. Stir all together in a mixing bowl, beat hard for five minutes 
and bake about ten minutes in muffin pans. 

rSENCH TEA CAKES Mrs. C. A. Carscadin 

One-half cup brown sugar; one-half cup butter; creamed; one- 
half cup milk; one teaspoonful cinnamon; one cup Quaker oats; one 
cup flour; two teaspoonfnls baking powder; two eggs and one cup of 
raisins. Bake in muffin tins. 



■ by Google 



H0TTEA0AEE8 

Two tablespoonfuls batter; one-half cap sagfar; one-eighth tea- 
spoonfol salt ; one egg ; one and one-half caps floar ; two teaspoonf obi 
baking powder ; three-foarths cap milk ; half teaspoonful vanilla. Mix 
in order given and bake in moffin tins ten or twenty minntes. 

LIOHTNINO OAKE Mrs. W. F. Barnard 

One large cup floor; one large teaapoonful baking powder; one 
scant cap sagar. Pat two eggs in cup and fill np with milk. Put sugar, 
flonr and ba^ng powder together, throw in milk and eggs ; then add 
five level tablespoonfuls of soft batter, vanilla, and then salt. Bake 
in gem pans. 

A7TEBN00N TEA OAEXS Mrs. W. N. Hurlbat 

One cap butter ; half cup sugar, beaten to a cream ; two caps floar ; 
one teaspoonful baking powder; two eggs. Drop the mixture from a 
teaspoon into a floured pan and bake in moderate oven. 

BKOWKDES Mrs. W. N. Hnrlbut 

Two eggs; one Cnp sugar; half cup butter; half cup floar; two 
sqaares melted Baker's chocolate; half cup chopped walnuts; one tea- 
spoonful vanilla. Beat butter, suffar and unbeaten eggs together. 
Bake on buttered paper and cut while hot, in sqaares. 

EOa SOLLS Mrs. W. K. Hurlbat 

One pint flour ; two eggs ; half teaspoonful salt ; half cup milk ; 
four tablespoonfuls batter,- three level teaspoonfuls baking powder. 
Sift flour vnth dry ingredients ; cat batter into flour with a knife, beat 
eegs until li^ht and add to milk. Add this to flour and mix lightly. 
Roll out on floured board till three-quarters of an inch thick. Shape, 
brush over tops with white of egg, and sprinMe with granulated sugar. 
Bake flfteen minutes in quick oven, 

SOD^EERN COOKIES Mrs. T. D. McMicken 

One cup butter; one and one-balf cups Bu^ar, creamed together; 
beat in three e^s; one cap milk: three cups flour; two teaspoonfuls 
baking powder; one cup chopped nuts; one-half cup raisins. Drop 
on battered tins. 

OATMEAL HAOABOONS Mary Roberta 

Three cups rolled Quaker oats; three teaspoonfuls baking powder; 
one tablespoonful butter; one cup white sugar; two eggs; one-half 
teaspoonful almond extract. Cream butter and sugar, then add eggs, 
well beaten. Mix rolled oats and baking powder together, add to but- 
ter and eCT?s. Drop one-half teaspoonful, about two inches apart, in 
well buttered pan. Bake in moderate oven. If not quite stiff enough 
add more rolled oats. 



«ibyCOO^IC 



K&OASOOHS Mrs. W. D. Hurlbnt 

Oce tablespoonfal butter and one-half scant cnp sngar creamed. 
One well beaten egg ; one and one-half cups dry oatmeal ; one teaspoon- 
fol each of BE^t and bt^ng powder and two teaspoonfuls almond ex- 
tract. Stir and drop on well greased pans. 

li^OAROONS 

Beaten whites of two eggs; one and three-fourths eapfula granu- 
lated sugar ; two cups shredded cocoanut ; one-half cupful chopped wal- 
nut meats; two cupfuls com flakes. Mix all together and drop on well 
buttered tins. Bake until brown. 

SOFT WHITE COOKIES WITH BAISIN FILLINO 

Mrs. M. A. nanders 
One and one-half cups sugar ; three-fourths cup shortening ; one 
egg; one-half cup milk; one level teaspoonful sode dissolved in a lit- 
tle miMfc; salt, nutmeg. Mix well one cup sugar (reserving one-half 
cup for sprinkling on top of cookies before baking) with shortening, 
egg, milk, soda, pineh of salt and a sprinkle of nutmeg and fl!our. Use 
enough flour to enable to roll and cut. 

Baisin Pilling: One-half pound raisins; one-half cup water; one- 
half tahleapoonful butter ; flour. Put raisins in a pan with water and 
butter and as they come to a boil, thicken with a tahleapoonful of flour, 
mixed with a little water. Put one layer of cookies in baking pan, 
spread with the raisin mixture, then place another cookie on top of 
each ; sprinkle with sugar and bake. 

BUTTER COOnES Mrs. J. R. Kline 

One pound butter; one cup sugar; two eggs; rind one-half lemon; 
juice of one-half lemon; six cuds flour; one teaspoonful baking pow- 
der; one cup almonds chopped fine. Cream the butter; add the sugar, 
then the yolks of eggs, slightly beaten. Add rind of lemon, and the 
flour well mixed with the bakinir powder ; then the lemon iuice with 
only enough flour to handle. Chill the dough, and when thoroughly 
cold roll. Cut with the small biscuit cutter, brush with white of egg. 
Sprinkle a little sugar on each cookie, also some chopped almondn. 
Bake in moderate oven a delicate brown ten to fifteen minutes. Will 
keep for weeks. 

BOOKS Mrs. F. B. Woodland 

One cap butter; one and one-half cups sugar; three eggs; two 
and one-half cups floor; one pound dates, stoned and chopped fine: 
one pound of walnuts, chopped a little ; a teaspoonful soda dissolved 
in two tablespoonfuls hot water: one teaspoonful cinnamon; one and 
one-half teaspoonfuls allspice. Drop on buttered tins and bake. The 
dates measure one full cup. The walnuts about two cups. These are 
stirred in the last with part of the flour. Don't roll, but dip with a 
teaspoon. I 



.byCoogle 



GLD-WASBXOWED SOOrAR COOKIES Mrs. C. W. Woodman 

Two enps of Bngar; one onp melted shoTteniog; two eggs; one 
cap BOOT cream ; one teaspoonful -soda ; one teaspoonful nutmeg ; a lit- 
tle lemon flavoring ; one teaspoonful baking powder in flour ; one tea- 
spoonfol salt Flonr enough to roll. 

COOKIES Mrs. J. A. Osborne 

One and one-half cups sugar ; scant cup sour cream ; one-half cup 
butter; one level teaspoonful soda and nutmeg; two eggs, beaten 
whites added last ; heaping teaspoonful baking powder in flour. Boll 
thick and sprinkle with sugar. 

rAVOBITE COOKIES Mrs. Earl Combs 

One and one-half cupfuls of sugar; one cupful of butter; one-half 
cop of sour milk ; one level teaspoonful baking powder; one teaspoon- 
ful grated nutmeg; flour enough to roll out, making it quite soft. 
Mix butter and sugar, then add milk and soda, nutmeg and flour lastly. 
Boll thin and put a little sugar on each cooky and bake in hot oven. 

OATMEAL AKD OOOOANUT COOKIES Mrs. T. 0. Hollenberger 
One cup light brown sugar ; one-half cup shortening (scant) ; one 
egg; one cup flour and one teaspoonful baking powder; one cup oat- 
meal and shredded coeoanat mixed ; a little salt and vanilla. This will 
be quite stiff. Drop from spoon in small pats. 

COBN rLAKE COOKIES Mrs. S. Friedlander 

Three cups com flakes; one cupful flour; three-fourths cup short- 
ening (butter and lard) ; one-half cup raisins, chopped ; two teaspoon- 
fuls baking powder; one teaspoonful cinnamon; two eggs; one cnp 
EQgar. Drop with spoon on greased tins. 

COSNTLAKE KISSES Mary Boberts 

Two eggs, well beaten ; three-fourths cup sugar, beaten into eggs. 
Add cornflakes until substance will hold shape when dropped from 
teaspoon, on to buttered paper. Bake fifteen minutes in slow oven. 

NUT KIS8E8 Mrs. C. A. Carscadin 

To the white of one egg, well beaten, add ten teaspoonfuls pulver- 
ized sugar, a little ground cinnamon and cloves and a cup of chopped 
nuts ; flavor with vanilla. Put teaspoonful of mixture on bottom side 
of pie pan and bake ten minutes in a moderate oven. 

MEBmaCE SHELLS Mrs. C. A. Carscadin 

Whites of four eggs beaten twenty minutes; one cup sugar; one 
teaspoonful vanilla; one-half teaspoonful vinegar. Bake forty-five 
minutes to one hour. Moderate oven. 



«ibyCoogIe 



OBEAH PUTTS Mrs. Paul Eleio-esel. 

One-half cap flonr; one-half cup of boiling water; one-quarter cap 
batter ; two eggs ; one-quarter teaspoon of salt. Add ealt and butter to 
water. When boiling add flour all at once, stirring constantlr until 
mixtore leaves the side of pan. Bemove from fire, add unbeaten eggs, 
and beat constantly while adding one at a time. 

HACABOON OOOEIES Mrs. W. D. ("Ma") Sunday 

Four cups cornflakes; one cup shredded coeoanut; one cup granu- 
lated sagar; one cup chopped almonds. Beat whites of four eggs 
very stiff, and mix all together. Bake in a slow oven about twenty 
minutes. 

HERMITS Mrs. J. H. Shanley 

Cream one and one-half cups of butter and two eupB of brown 
sugar; beat four eggs and add to butter and sugar; one level teaspoon- 
f ul soda in a tablespoonful of hot water ; then add two and one-half 
cups Sour; one pound of dates {cut small) and about one cup chopped 
walnuts; flavor with vanilla. Drop by spoonfuls on pan and cook 
for about 45 minutes. 

ROOKS Mrs. H. B. Bairden 

One pound brown sugar; one pound raisins; one pound currants; 
one pound walnuts ; one-half teaspoonf ul each cinnamon and nutmeg ; 
one-half cup sour milk ; one-half teaspoonf ul soda ; three eggs ; flour 
enough to make stiff. Drop on well buttered tins and bake. 

UARGUERnES Mrs. W. L. Gregson 

Make frosting from two tablespoonfuls of tliiek sweet cream and 
powdered sugar; flavor; spread frosting over long salted wafers; 
sprinkle with chopped nuts and bake in moderate oven. Allow to 
stand in dripping pan until cool, to guard against breaking. Melted 
chocolate or pink fruit coloring added to frosting makes variety. 
Dainty for afternoon teas, etc. 

CHRISTMAS OOOEIES Mrs. Adolph Holeman 

One-half pound of butter; one-half pound of sugar; two eggs, 
beaten separately ; one poimd of flour ; one teaspoonf ul baking powder ; 
one teaspoonful vanilla. Roll out thin and cut spreading top of 
cookies with the white of egg and sprinkle sugar over the tops be- 
fore baking. These will keep for months in a dry place. 

OATMEAL COOKIES Mrs. A. J. Atwater 

One cup sugar ; one cup lard ; one cup raisins, ground fine ; two 
eggs, beaten light; two eups oatmeal dry; one-half cup cold water; 
dash salt; one teaspoonful soda; sifted flour enough to make stiff 
dough. 



i,y Google 



OATHEAL COOKIES Mrs. W. D. ("Ma") SxmAay 

One cup sugar; one-fourth cup lard; one-half cnp bntter; three 
eggs beaten ; one and one-half eupa sifted flour ; two cups dry oatmeal ; 
one teaspoortful cinnamon ; one and one-half cups chopped, seeded rai- 
sins ; one and one-half teaspoonfuls soda, mixed with one tablespoonful 
Tiaegar. Drop on greased pans. Bake in quick oven. 

OATBIEAL COOKIES Mrs. Minnie E. Bodwell 

Cookies: One-half cup of lard; one-half cup of bntter; one cup 
of sugar; two-thirds cup of sour milk; one level teaspoonfnl of soda, 
dissolved in milk; two cups of oatmeal; two cups of floor. Filling: 
One-half pound of dates put through chopper; one-half cup of white 
sugar ; one-half cup of cold water. Boil all together until thick ; when 
cool and cookies are warm, spread filling between two cookies; it is 
then ready to serve, very nice. 

LACE OATMEAL WAFERS Mrs. F. T. Hoyt 

One cup of sugar; one tablespoonful of butter; two eggs beat^ 
separately; two and one-half cups of uncooked oatmeal; two teaspoon- 
fuls of baking powder; 1 teaspoonful of vanilla; one pinch of salt 
Mix well, adding the stiffly beaten whites of eggs last. Drop a small 
teaspoonfnl on greased pans, far apart, and bake in quick oven. 

DROP CLOVE COOKIES Mrs. C. E. Upham 

Two cups sugar ; one cup shortening ; two eggs ; one cup molasses ; 
two teaspoonfuls soda dissolved in little hot water; six scant caps 
flour; one cnp cold water; three teaspoonfuls salt; one teaspoonfnl 
cloves; one teaspoonful cinnamon; raisins if wanted. Drop with a 



DROP COOKIES (UGHT) 

Two eupB of sugar; one cup of shortening; two eggs beaten light; 
one cap of milk (sour) ; one teaspoonful each of soda, salt baking pow- 
der — the latter well mixed with the four enps of flour — and grated 
nutmeg or any desired flavoring. Mix well and drop in small tea- 
spoonfuls upon a greased pan. Allow room to spread. Bake in a 
quick oven. 

PEANUT COOKIES Mrs. L. EHcklen 

One cup sugar; two eggs; two teaspoonfuls butter; one cup pea- 
nuts rolled ; enough flonr with baking powder to make stiff batter, 

CHOCOLATE COOKIES Mrs. H. 8. Mount 

Cream one cup of shortening, one cnp of brown cngar, one cup 
of white sugar. Then add four squares (one-half of one-half pound 
cake), melted chocolate, one-fourth cnp milk, one-half teaspoonful of 
baking powder, floor enough to roll very thin. Bake in cookie pana. 



CHOCOLATE NUT COOKIES Mrs. J. W. Moss 

One tablespoonful grated chocolate ; one cup chopped nut meats : 
one cup seeded raisins; one cup sugar; one egg; two tablespoonfuls 
butter; one-half cup milk; one and three-fourths cups flour; one tea- 
apoonfol powdered cinnamon; one teaspoonfol vanilla extract. 

CHOCOLATE FINGERS 

Three eggs; one-half pound of powdered sugar; one-half pound 
of sifted pastry flour; two ounces of powdered chocolate. Method: 
Beat sugar and eggs for half an hour, sift chocolate and sugar to- 
gether, tiien stir into the flour. Beat well, then with a pastry squirt 
form oblong cakes, size of a finger on waxed tins. Set away over 
night, then bake as other coo^es in moderate heat. They have 
the appearance of being frosted owing to the light components rising 
to the top during night. If you have no pastry tube or squirt, form 
little round mounds by dipping up portions with a small spoon dipped 
in cold water. When baking the above cakes be sure to use only mod- 
erate heat. Remove cakes from pan as soon as done and place in tin 
paila or cans as soon as cold. If kept in closed tin small cakes will keep 
a long time and remain palatable. 

DROP COOKIES (Dark) 

One cup of brown sugar; one-quarter cup shortening; one egg; 
one-half cup each of hot water and molasses ; one teaspoonful each of 
soda, baking powder, cinnamon, cloves and salt ; one-half teaspoonful 
of gronnd nutmeg, all sifted thoroughly with two and one-half cups of 
flour. Mix well, drop in smidl spoonfuls upon a greased tin, and bake 
in a quick oven. This makes a small batch. 

OINOEB SNAPS W. B. McKinley (his mother's recipe) 

Two cups brown sugar ; two cups molasses ; one cup lard or butter ; 
one-half cup sweet milk ; one teaspoonful salt ; two teaspoonfuls soda ; 
one teaspoonful cinnamon; one-half teaspoonful cloves; two table- 
spoonfnls ginger; add flour enough to roll. Put molasses, lard, sugar 
and spices on the stove, let get hot. "When cool dissolve the soda in 
the milk, add flour and milk alternately, roll very thin and bake. 

GINaER BEEAD Mrs. A. P. Roberts 

One cupful molasses; two cupfuls sour milk; three cupfuls flour; 
one-half teaspoonful each nutmeg and cinnamon; scant half cupful 
sugar; two eggs; one heaping teaspoonful ginger and a teaspoonful 
soda dissolved in the sour milk. 

SOFT dNGERBREAD Mrs. T. C. Hollenberger 

Two-thirds cup molasses, fill cup with sugar; one-half cup butter, 
fill cup with hot water ; two cups flour ; two teaspoonfuls ginger ; one- 
half teaspoonful cinnamon ; one teaspoonful soda, dissolved in a little 
of the hot water; one egg. 



■ byCoogle 



a b, Google 



a b, Google 



GIMaEB BREAD Mra. Enetace 

Otte cup molasses; one cap brown sugar; one-half cap batter and 
lard; two eggs; two scant teaspoonfuls of soda in one cup of soar 
milk; three cups of flour; one teaspoonful each of ginger and cinna- 
mon ; one-half teaspoonful each of cloves and allspice. Bake slowly. 

anTGEK BREAD Mrs. W. F. Barnard 

Two-thirds cup molasses, fill up cup with granulated sugar; one- 
half cup butter, fill cup up with hot water; two scant caps flour; one 
egg, beaten light; one teaspoonful ginger; one teaspoonful cinnamon ; 
one teaspoonful soda. Bake in moderate oven about one-half hour. 

COLONIAL OINOEBBREAD Mrs. Floyd E. Jennison 

One cup molasses; one-half cup sugar; one-half cup shortening. 
Pour over the above, one cup warm water in which one level dessert- 
spoonful of soda has been dissolved. Let mixture cool; then add two 
and one-half cupfuls flour (sifted) ; one teaspoonful each of ginger and 
cinnamon and lastly two well beaten eggs and one cup (or less) of 
English walnut meats. Raisins may be added, if desired. 

OHOOOLATE OINOERBREAD 

One-half cup molasses; one tablespoonful each of melted butter 
and lard; one-half cap brown 8ui?ar; one-fourth teaspoonful each of 
ginger and cinnamon ; one heaping tablespoonful grated sweet choco- 
late, mixed to a paste with a little hot water. Blend the ingredients 
thoroughly, then stir in one teaspoonful soda in one cupful of sour 
milk; flour to stiffen. Bake twenty minutes. 

CINNAMON STARS 

Two tablespoonfuls of butter; one cupful of sugar; two eggs; one 
and one-half cupfals of sifted pastiy flour; one teaspoonful of cinna- 
mon ; one-fourth teaspoonful of baking powder. Method : Oeam but- 
ter, sugar and eggs until light, sift all dry ingredients together, then 
stir into egg mixture. Take onto a floured board, using a very little 
more flonr if needed. Roll quite thin, then cut vrith a star cutter. 
Bake on waxed tins in a very moderate oven. 

OAUFORMIA COOKIES Mrs. E. T. Clissold 

One cap molasses ; one egg ; one-half cup milk ; one cup chopped 
raisins ; one-half cup butter ; one-half cap sugar ; one-half teaspoonful 
each of cloves, nutmeg and cinnamon ; one teaspoonful soda. I)rop in 
spoonfuls in buttered tins. Bake quickly. 

DOUOHNDTS Mrs. H. P. Sieh 

Two cups sugar; four eggs; one cup buttermilk ; six tablespoonfuls 
hot lard ; one teaspoonful nutmeg, one of soda and one of salt. Floor 
to make a good rolling dough. Cut and cook in hot lard. 



, Google 



MOLASSES SQUARES Mrs. E. OUver 

One cup SQgar} one egg; two tablespoonfols shortening; three- 
fourths cup molasses; one teaspoonful soda dissolved in molasses; 
one cup milk; two and one-half caps floor (after sifting); one cup 
raisins; one teaspoonful each cinnamon, cloves and one-h^ teaspoon- 
fol nutmeg. Beat egg, add shortening, molasses, milk, spices and last 
the raisins (floured). Bake in two shallow pans. Any desired frosting. 

amOES BLOCKS 

Four tablespoonf uls of butter or butterine ; one-third cupful sugar ; 
one egg; one-half cupful of golden drip syrup; one-half cupful of 
milk; one and three-qaartere cupfuls of sifted pastry flour; one tea- 
spoonful of baking powder; two teaspoonfuls of ginger. Method: 
Cream butter, sugar and yolk; then add the sirup and beat hard. 
Sift dry ingredients together, and then add, alternating with the milk. 
Whip white of egg and fold in. Bake in square tins. When done cat 
into blocks and ^t confectioners' sugar over. To make the blocks 
of anifonn size trim the very outer edge of cake before cutting. These 
rims can be used for a pudding some other day. 

PUPI" BALLS Mrs. J. Dana Brown 

One egg; three-fourths cupful sugar; one scant cupful milk; one 
and one-half eupfuls flour; and one-half teaspoonful baking powder; 
pinch of salt. Mix and roll out and cut with the smallest biscuit cutter 
and dropped in hot fat. 

DOUGHNUTS Mrs. J. H. Shanley 

Three eggs ; one cup sugar ; one cup sweet milk ; three teaspoonfuls 
baking powder sifted with three cups flour; spice and flavoring to suit 
your taste. When these are put into the boiling lard they sink, bat 
rise almost at once and turn themselves. They never break apart when 
frying, as they contain no shortening, yet they are sufBcienfly rich to 
satisfy anyone. 

DOUOHNUTS Mrs. T. 0. HoUenberger 

Three eggs beaten very light; one cup sugar; four tableapoonfnls 
melted lard, add to the eggs and beat all together. One teaspoonful 
salt and a little nutmeg or lemon rind grated; one cup thick sour 
milk with one-half teaspoonful soda dissolved in it ; add flour with one 
heaping teaspoonful baking powder sifted with flour — three cups, with 
enough more to make a very soft dough. 

DOUGHNUTS Miss Sbay 

Two eggs, well beaten; add one anA one-half cupfuIs sugar; one- 
half grated nutmeg; one cap milk; two heaping tablespoonfuls butter, 
melted; two heaping teaspoonfuls baking powder sifted in the flour 
and flour enough to make the dough roll easily, about three pints of 
flour. 



|.yCOO^[^ 



DiBlradbiGOOgle 



PICKLES 



"Hovs Cam'st in Such a Picklet" 

I — SsASESPEAKB. 



SLICED PICKLE Mrs. William H. Fahrney 

One peck cacumbers; thirty small onions; four green peppers; 
two red peppers; slice and soak over night in salt water. Soak en* 
cmnbers separately, rinse in cold water. One-half gallon vinegar; two 
tablespoonfuls mnstard seed; one tablespoonful celery seed; six cops 
brown sugar; one-fourth teaspoonful tumeric; one teaspoonful pow- 
dered alum. Let the vinegar and seasoning come to a boil, add the 
onions and peppers, cook five minutes; then add the cacombers and 
cook five minutes. Can hot. 

UUSTARD PICKLE Mrs. William Molt 

One quart tiny cucumbers; one quart large cucumbers, cut or 
sliced ; one quart green tomatoes, cut in pieces ; one large eaulifiower, 
divided ; five green peppers, chopped fine ; one quart button onions, cat 
up. To four quarts of water add one pint salt and pour over the vege- 
tables and let stand twenty-four hours ; then heat in same brine just 
enough to scald; turn into colander and drain. Mix one-half cup 
flour; six tablespoonfuls mustard; two tablespoonfuls tumeric, vfitii. 
enough cold vinegar to make a smooth paste; add one cup sugar and 
enough vinegar to make two quarts in all; boil this until it tiiickens 
and is smooth. Add this to the pickles and cook until they are heated 
through, about fifteen minutes ; pack in Mason jars and seal. 

HUSTABD PICKLES 

rOK TWO QUART JAS Mrs. Wm. J. Maiden 

Three tablespoonfuls Coleman's mustard; one-fourth cupful salt; 
piece of horseradish root; fill jar with vinegar. Wash and wipe 
pickles and pack in jar, then pour over the above mixture. 

PICKLES Alice B. Toluiie 

Slice 25 small cucumbers with a large onion, put in salt brine and 
let stand for three hours, then drain and boil in following syrup : One 
quart vinegar, one pound sugar, one-half cap mustard seed, one table- 
^oonful ginger, one teaspoonful each of celery seed and ttimerie pow- 
der. Boil five minutes and can. 



,d by Google 



MIXED PICKLES Mn. H. D. Sheldon 

One quart of small cucumbers; one quart of white onions; one 
quart green tomatoea; two large cauliflower; soak in weak salt water 
over night ; scald in same brine and drain. Paste : Six tableapoonfols 
dry mustard ; one tablespoonfnl tumeric powder ; one and one-half caps 
floor; two cups brown sugar; five pints vinegar. Add vegetables to 
paste ; heat through and seal in cans. 

OnOUHBEB PICKLES Mrs. Samuel Friedlander 

Twelve long cucumbers ; five large onions, sliced and salted. Let 
stand over night. In morning drain well. Boil three pints vinegar; 
one and one-half pounds sugar; one red pepper, cut in strips; two 
tablespoonf ula dry mustard ; a tablespoonfnl whole white peppers ; one 
tablespoonfnl whole black pepper; two tablespoonfnls mustard seed. 
Boil until tender and can hot. 

CUCDMBBB PICKLE Florence Trainer 

Two dosen large cucumbers, chopped fine and salted over night ; 
one cup salt; four large onions; two stalks celery; one red pepper; 
chop all fine. Heat mree cups cider vinegar; one cup water; two 
cups brown sugar; three tablespoonf ula mustard seed; three table- 
spoonfuls ground mustard; one tablespoonful celery seed; one-fourth 
teaspoonful cayenne pepper. When hot, pour over chopped mixture 
and cook ten minutes. Then bottle. 

PICKLED ONIONS Mrs. W. L. Qregson 

Peel and drop in hot brine. The third day heat the brine again 
and pour over them; the sixth day make a new strong brine; the tenth 
day drain and pour scalding vinegar containing a very little ginger 
root over them. Let stand on the stove until thoroughly heated 
through, but do not cook ; pour into jars and seal hot. A little alum 
in the brine makes them firmer, and white wine vinegar aids in keep- 
ing them white, but malt vinegar adds to the flavor. 

TOMATO RELISH Mrs. A. Donald Campbell 

One peck ripe tomatoes, peeled, chopped fine and drained in jeUy 
bag over night ; in the morning add two caps chopped celery, six large 
onions chopped fine ; two large green peppers (without seeds), chopped 
fine; two cups sugar; half cup salt; two ounces white mustard seed; 
one quart eider vinegar. Mix well and bottle; it does not require 
heating and Trill keep for years. 

on. PICKLES Mrs. A. C. Allen 

One-half peck small cncnmbers; one pint silver skin onions, slice 
thin and place in stone jar alternately, sprinkling salt between. Let 
stand over night; pour off brine and wash thoroughly; add the fol- 
lowing; one teacup olive oil, two tablespoonfnls white mustard seed, 
two tablespoonfnls celery seed, four pepper corns and vinegar to eorer. 



.(.ich; 



.^Ic 



OIL OUODUBEB PICKLES Mrs. E. D. Ootdiy 

Cut one himdred small cneumbera into thin slices ; pat in earthen 
crock in layers with silt for four hours ; drain off liquor and mix with 
three pints of sliced onions, three ounces white mustard seed, three 
ounces celery seed, three ounces of ground white pepper. Dissolve 
small lump alum in Tinegar; add to it two cups olive oil; add white 
vinegar enough to cover. 

FIOELES rOS IHHEDIATE USE Mrs. S. A. Power 

Mix together one cupful each of salt and dry mustard ; add it to 
one gallon of good vinegar, spices of various kinds and a little sugar, 
if liked, may be added. Drop the well washed cucumbers into this 
pickle each day as they grow. These pickles will keep indefinitely. 

DILL nOELEB Mrs. W. T. Elenze 

One hundred taedium sized cucumbers; one small red pepper; 
one big bunch of dill ; some cherry leaves ; ten quarts of water ; one 
quart of vinegar; two cnps salt. Mason jars, two quart size. Lay 
cucombers in salt water over night (one-half cup salt to four quarts 
water). Boil water, vinegar and salt; let cool over night. Drain en- 
cumbers and place in jars in layers between cherry leaves and dill. 
Pack cucumbers tight; add a small piece of red pepper, cover with 
brine and screw down cover. Will keep. One cup of mustard seeds 
and one cup of horseradish root, shaved fine, may be added. 

PIOOALnJ Mrs. H. B. Bairden 

One peck of green tomatoes; eight large onions; one cup salt; 
slice and let stand over night. In the morning drain and add three 
quarts of water and let come to a good boil, then drain well through a 
colander. Put back in kettle and add two quarts vinegar; one pound 
of sugar; half pound of white mustard; two tablespoonfuls ground 
pepper; two of cinnamon; one of cloves; two of ginger; one of allspice 
and h^f a teaspoonful of cayenne pepper. Boil all together until 
tender; it will take from thirty minutes to an hour to cook. Stir it 
often to prevent scorching. Seal in glass jars; add more sugar if 
liked sweeter. 

BEET BEU8H Mrs. K UcNeil 

One quart cooked beets, chopped fine ; one quart cabbage, chopped 
fine; one cup each of grated horseradish, chopped onion and sngar; 
one teaspoonful salt; one pint vinegar. Heat vinegar, pour over all 
and seal. 

TEPPES, RELISH Sue C. Woodman 

Twelve green peppers; twelve red peppers; ten medium onions; 
chop together. Pour boiling water over and let stand five minutes; 
strain and repeat. Three cups of vinegar; one cup sugar; two table* 
spoonfuls salt ; one-half cup mustard seed ; cook thitlr minnteB Bottle. 

143 



Mrs. John T. Qilchmt 
Nine sweet peppers; one large head cabbage; six large ontons; 
chop fine and add one-half cup salt. Stand over ni^t and drain in 
morning. Add trro cnps sugar; cup white mustard seed; olie table- 
Bpoonfol celery seed ; vinegar to cover. Do not remove pepper seeds 
and do not cook. Put in earthen jar, covered with a plate. 

OUVE OIL PICKLES Mrs. A. J. Atwater 

Forty encumbers, dill size, scmb and slice with lind; one-half 
cup salt; a layer of cncmnbers and a layer of salt in a crock; put 
weight on top and let stand for two hours; pour off water and add ten 
onions, four green peppers, sliced fine; two ounces mustard seed; one 
pint olive oil; one ounce celery seed. Pack in jars and cover with 
vinegar. 

UNCOOKED CHILI SAUCE Mrs. Herman Vander Ploeg 

One peck ripe tomatoes; two cups chopped onions; two cups 
chopped celery; two cups sngar; one-half cnp salt; four omiceB white 
mustard seed; one teaspoonfnl powdered mace; one teaspoonfnl black 
pepper; one teaspoonful powdered cinnamon; four chopped green 
peppers; three pints vinegar. Chop the onions and peppers, add to- 
matoes peded and chopped; sngar, salt, mustard seed, mace, pepper, 
cinnamon and vinegar. Seal and if screw top jars are used, turn apside 
down overnight. 

CAMMED TOUATO SOUP Mrs. Edwin Oliver 

Fourteen quarts of sliced ripe tomatoes; fourteen stalks celery; 
fourteen sprigs parsley; two bay leaves; twenty-one doves; seven 
medinm sized onions. Boil until tender and strain. Then blend four- 
teen tablespoonfals each of butter and flonr ; eight tablespoonfuls salt ; 
sixteen tablespoonfuls sugar; one-fourth tablespoonful paprika. Cook 
until the desired thickness; makes about eight quarts. If milk is 
used, add soda. 

CORN RELISH Mrs. A. J. Langan 

One dozen ears of com, boil ten miutes, cut from cob ; one head 
of cabbage; four green peppers; four red peppers; one cup sugar; 
three pints vinegar; one small bos Coleman's mustard; one tablespoon- 
fol celery seed ; salt to taste ; one teaspoonful tumeric. Mix well ; boil 
twenty mjnntm and seal. 

OOBM BEUSH Mrs. Samuel Friedlander 

Twelve ears of com, cut from cob; twelve green peppers; two 
red peppers; two quarts ripe tomatoes; a head cabbage; one quart 
onions, chopped all together; add one quart sugar; one-half cnp 
salt; two quarts vinegar; one ounce celery seed; one ounce mustard 
seed; one ounce dry mustard; one tablespoonful tumeric Mix and 
boil forty minutes. Seal hot in air tight cans. 



«ibyCoogIe 



OOBN RELISH Mn. B. Heidorn 

Twelve ears corn; six cucumbers; six Itirge onions; two stalks 
celetT; six green peppers; three red peppers; three tHblespoonfuis 
salt; two cups sugar; three tablespoonfnls dry mustard.; three table- 
spoonfuls flour; one-half ounce tumeric; two guarts vinegar; boil one 
hour and seal hot. 

OOBN SELI8H Mrs. E. L. Phelps 

Two dozen ears of com, cut from the cob; six red peppers; six 
green peppers; large head of cabbage; two tablespoonfuls salt; three 
cups sugar; two quarts vinegar (diluted) ; one-half pound dry mus- 
tard; add celery and onions as mneh as yon like. Cook the salt, 
mustard, sugar and vinegar together; add cabbage, celery and onions. 
Cook a little, then add com ; let boU up and can air tight. 

CORN SALAD Sue. C. Woodman 

Pour large onions; one cabbage; four green peppers; one red 
pepper; twenty ears of com; one and one-half cups sugar; one-half 
cup salt. Make paste of and pour on above ; one-half cup flour ; one- 
half teaspoonful tumeric; three tablespoonfnls mustard; one quart 
vinegar. Boil twenty miautes. 

OHILI SATTOE Mrs. B. Heidorn 

Twenty-four ripe tomatoes ; four white onions ; three green pep- 
pers; four tablespoonfuls salt; one of cinnamon; one-half of ground 
cloves and allspice mixed; one teacup sugar; one pint vinegar; boil 
three hours, seal hot. 

OHILI SAUOE Belle Shaw 

One peck tomatoes; six large onions; four green peppers; two red 
peppers; six tablespoonfuls white sugar; three tablespoonfnls salt; 
three cups vinegar; two tablespoonfuls whole cloves; two tablespoon- 
fnls whole allspice ; two stalks whole cinnamon ; chop tomatoes, pep* 
per and onions, very fine ; tie spices in two bags, loosely. Boil three 
hours, slowly. 

OHILI SAUCE Mrs. H. D. Sheldon 

Thirty large tomatoes; eight onions (medium), three green peppers 
chopped fine ; two red peppers chopped fine ; ten tablespoonfuls brown 
st^ar; three tablespoon^ls salt; two tablespoonfuls cinnamon; one- 
half tablespoonfol cloves ; one quart vinegar. Pee! and slice tomatoes, 
put in kettle with remaining ingredients, cook slowly until thick, add 
vinegar when nearly done. 

SPICED CURRANTS Mrs. C. A. Robinson 

Four pounds of currants ; one and one-half pints of vinegar ; one- 
half pint of water; pound of brown sugar; one tablespoonfnl cinna- 
mon ; one teaspoonful cloves ; one nutmeg. Boil slowly three hours. 



METES FAIL CATSUP Mrs. Minnie E. Bodwell 

One gallon of ripe tomatoes, after having been boiled and strained ; 
one pint of vinegar; five tablespoonfnls of salt; two tablespoonfols of 
black pepper ; three ounces of white mnstard seed ground finely ; one 
teaspoonful of cayenne pepper; one teaspoonful of clnnaTDOn; one-half 
teaspoonfal of allspice. Cook all together for four hours. 

TOUATO CATSUP Sne C. -Woodman 

Cat np one peck of tomatoes over night with one cup salt. Boil 
well and strain. Add: One tablespoonfnl gronnd cloves; one table- 
spoonful allspice; one tablespoonfol mace; one tablespoonfnl white 
mnstard seed; one tablespoonfnl black pepper; one teaspoonful red 
pepper; one-half enp sngar; one pine white wine vinegar. Boil down 
one-half. Bottle. 

OUBBANT CATSUP Mrs. J. H. Ostrander 

Clean and stew four ponnds of ripe currants; add two pounds 
of brown sugar and one pint of vinegar; boil steadily and slowly until 
thick ; add one teaspoonful each of ground pepper, cloves and cinna- 
mon ; boil for five minutes longer. Bottle and seal. 

VEGETABLES FOB WINTEB SOUP Mrs. C. B. Seaton 

One peck tipe tomatoes; one head of cabbage; one bunch car- 
rots; six large onions; nine ears of com; six stalks celery; two green 
peppers; one la^e bunch parsley. Scald the skins off the tomatoes 
and cut in rather large pieces; shred cabbage; peel and slice carrots; 
peel and chop onions; cut com from cob; cut celery as for salad; 
remove the seeds from peppers, chop them and the parsley quite fine. 
Mix all together and boil for one hour in a porcelain or agate kettle, 
stirring often to prevent scorching; about ten minutes before it is done, 
add salt to teste. Seal hot in glass jars. Potatoes may be added 
to the soup in the winter. 

SWEET WATEBMELON PICKLE Mrs. N. P. Swartwout 

BemoTO the thin rind (green), also all of the ripe melon, using 
only the white portion of the rind. Nine pounds fruit, three pounds 
sugar, one quart vinegar. After soaking the rinds over night in strong 
salt water and then rinsing in hot water; put the fruit, sugar and vine- 
gar, together in preserving kettle and boil until tender. Skim out 
fruit and put into the liquid a bag of spices and boil nntil a little 
thick; then pour over the fruit. If there is not enough syrup to 
cover it add a little more vinegar. 



,d by Google 



DiBiradbiGOOgle 



a«i 



DiglizedbyGOOgle 



PRESERVES 



"The best of families Itave their famUy 'jars.' ' 



FOUB FBTJIT JAM Mrs. W. C. Thorbtu 

One quart strawberries; one quart currants; one quart poose- 
berries; one quart eherriea; two quarts granulated sugar. Boil forty 
mmntes and put in jelly glasses. 

OBANBEBBY CONSERVE Sue C. Woodman 

One quart cranberries cut coarsely; one cup sultana raisins; six 
oranges; soak raisins; cut up oranges; mix. Equal measure of sugar; 
cook. Stir eonstantly. 

BHDBABB OONSEBVE Mrs. John Ingram 

Six pounds rhubarb ; six pounds granulated sugar ; one-balf pound 
Ei^lish walnuts ; six oranges, pulp and juice. Boil until proper con- 
sisteney. 

PLUM 00K8EBVE Mrs. A. C. Allen 

One box of blue plums; one pound of raisins, chopped; three 
pounds sugar; juice of four oranges; rind of two oranges chopped. 
Boil the rind in water until bittemcBS is gone. Cook for one-half 
hoar. 

HEAVENLY HASH Mrs. W. D. Hurlbut 

A five-pound basket of big blue plums ; wash and seed them, put in 
preserving kettle with one pint water; add (everything but the seeds 
of) five oranges and five lemons, putting the skins through a meat 
chopper; four pounds of seedless raisins, also put through the chopper; 
one pound of walnut meats broken and lastiy five pounds of sugar. 
Let boil until quite thick, then put in glasses and when cold cover 
with paraffine. 



i CHIPS Mrs. M. Evans 

Seven pounds pear chips ; seven pounds sugar ; one-fourth pound 

eandied ginger ; three lemons sliced ; two oranges. Cook oranges and 

lemons slowly before adding to pears ; then cook slowly for two hours. 



SUN COOKED STBAWBEBBIES Mrs. H. D. Sheldon 

Use cup for cup sugar and fruit. Let sugar stand on fmit over 
night. Drain jnice and cook slowly until sugar is thoroughly dis- 
solved. Add froit and heat through. Turn out on platters and stand 
in snn until thick as desired. Pieces of glass over each platter helps 
eook more rapidly. Seal as you would jelly in glasses. 

HABLEQUIN JAU Good Housekeeping 

One orange; twenty-five peaches; twelve pears; twelve plums; one 
pound white grapes; one-fourth pound almonds, blanched; three- 
fourths cup of sugar to one cnp of fruit. Cook two hours. 

BLAOEBEBBT JAM 

Two quarts blackberries; one and one-half quarts sugar; one cup 
water. Cook well for half an hour. 

APBICOT JAM Mrs. Herman Yander Ploeg 

One pound dried apricots; three pounds granulated sugar; one- 
half ounce hitter almonds; three pints cold water. Soak the apricots 
in the water over night (wash first), and in the morning boil until 
tender. Add sugar and aliuonds blanched and boil another half hour, 
or until mixture sets, 

YELLOW TOUATO PKESEBVES Mrs. T. B. Orr 

Two quarts tomatoes; two lemons ground, use juice and all; four 
chopped large sour apples; two and one-half cups brown sngar; two 
teaspoonfuls cinnamon; one teaspoonfnl ground ginger; one-h&tf tea- 
spoonful cloves. Cook slowly until thick. Put in jars. 

TOMATO BUTTEE Mrs. A Donald CampbeU 

Seven pounds large ripe tomatoes ; four pounds brown sugar ; one- 
half cup vinegar; one teaspoonful each of ginger and cloves; one 
tablespoonful cinnamon. Cover tomatoes with boiling water and let 
stand five minutes ; rub off skins and cut off stem ends. Slice into a 
porcelain kettle and cook until soft; add sugar and stew until very 
thick; add spices and vinegar and cook short time longer. Pour in 
quart Mason jars and seal while hot. This is particularly good with 
meat or game. 

EAST Iin)IAK PRESEBVE Mrs. George D. Milligan 

Six pounds yellow tomatoes — small ones; six pounds sugar; one 
pound raisins, large ones with seeds; put them in water until they 
plump up; two ounces green ginger root (obtainable at a Chinese 
store) ; six lemons sliced ; put tomatoes in kettle and put on enough 
water to cover them; then add the other ingredients and boU until 
Oiick. 



lyCoogle 



QUINOE H0NE7 Aunt Margaret 

Peel and grate three large quinces and one tart apple. Make a 
syrup of three pints of granulated sugar and one pint of water; have 
tie syrup boiling briskly ; stir in the grated fruit and boil twenty min- 
utes. 

APRICOT HAIUftALASE Mrs. J. G. Sherer 

One basket of apricots ; one pineapple ; three oranges ; Qve pounds 
case sugar. Peel oranges, scald peeling and scrape off white and then 
put all through grinder. Boil all slowly one hour, stirring constantly 
or it will stidc. 

APRICOT AKD PINEAPPLE 

MARMALADE Mrs. A. Donald Campbell 

One large, or two small, pineapples, put through meat chopper 

with large knife ; one and one-half pounds apricots ; weighed after they 

are peeled and pitted; two pounds sugar; one-half pint water. BoU 

slowly for an hour. 

FIO MARMALADE Mrs. John T. Gilchrist 

Cut five pounds rhubarb into inch pieces. Add one quart of water 
and cook as for sauce. Put one pound figs through a food chopper. 
Heat five pounds sugar and add to hot sance, then figs. Add juice 
of two lemons. Cook slowly for about one hour, stirring often. 

BEACH MARMALADE Mrs. F. J. Maonish 

Equal parts of peaches (run through a fine collander) and sugar, 
cooked two hours. 

PEACH MARMALADE Mrs. J. H. Shanley 

Nine medium sized peaches, cut small; one orange, chopped fine 
(with skin) ; one cup sugar. Cook until it thickens, put in jelly glasses 
and seal. 

PIE PLANT MARMALADE Mrs. T. B. Orr 

Two quarts pie plant pared and cut in inch length pieces; four 
large oranges, chopped (use juice) ; one-half pound almonds, blanched 
and chopped; four pounds sugar; mix all together and let stand in 
bowl all night. Cook slowly in enamel kettle until thiclr. Seal with 
parafSne in glasses. 

ORANGE MARMALADE Mrs. T. M. Monmoy 

Six oranges; three lemons, parboiled, and save the water; either 
put the skins through the chopper or slice them very thin; add eight 
cupfnls water, using that in which the fruit was boiled, and sixteen 
cupfuls of sugar; let stand over night. Next day let it boil gently 
until it jellies. 



byGoogle 



OBAHOZ MABHALADI Mrs. C. B. Martin 

One grapefruit; six oranges; two lemons (sliced like wafers) ; two 
quarts of cold water; let stand over night. In the morning, boil slowly 
until fmit can be pierced with a straw ; add seven and one-half pounds 
granulated sugar and boil until thick enough. 

OBANGK UABBUJ.AD1: Miss JnUa Hnnt 

Six pounds of pumpkin (after cut), cut one inch long, three- 
fourths inch wide and one-half inch thick; cover with five pounds 
sugar; let stand over night. Six lemons, juice and rind; two oranges 
sliced and the rinda cut in small pieces; three-fourths ounce ^ger, 
the preserved is best. Simmer until the rind softens, then add to the 
pumpkin and boil until the right consistency. 

QUICK ORANGE BIABHALADE Mrs. A. Donald CampbeU 

Take one-third lemons and two-thirds oranges (eight oranges and 
four lemons makes large enough quantity to cook up at one time fuid 
makes twelve glasses). Take off the yellow part of the peel from one- 
half of each ; cut into small pieces and drop into the preserving kettle ; 
take off the white part of the peel, between the yellow part and the 
pulp ; be sure none of the white goes into the marmalade, as it makes 
it bitter. Slice the fruit across in thin slices, and add it to the eut 
up peel; put teacup of water to each whole fruit (oranges and lemons) 
and cook until the fruit is soft. When cooked, add three-fourths cup 
of sugar for each whole fruit and boil hard until it jells. The quicker 
it is cooked the better, as long cooking, especially after the sugar 
is added, tends to destroy the flavor and makes the mixture taste 
strong. 

SHUBASB MARMALADE Mrs. J. L. Putman 

Boil for twenty minutes, four pounds of rhubarb eut into smell 
pieces, leaving the skin on. Add the juice of five lemons, the rind of 
which has been sliced off thinly, boiled in a little water for about 
twenty minutes or until soft; and chopped fine. To this add six 
pounds of granulated sugar, one pound of blanched almonds, chopped 
or cut, and one wine-glass of Jamaica ginger. Boil all together until 
thick. 

RHDBARB MARMALADE Mrs. John T. Gilchnst 

Cut rhubarb very fine and to each cupful add the juiee and pulp 
of one orange, one tablespoonful lemon juice and one teaspoonfnl 
grated orange peel and one and one-half cups sugar. Let stand until 
sagar is dissolved. Boil rapidly until transparent. 

SPICED RHUBARB Mrs. John Ingram 

Two and one-half pounds rhubarb ; skin and cut in one inch 
pieces; two pounds granulated sugar, mixed with one teaspoonfnl cin- 
namon ; one-half teaspoonful ground cloves ; seven-eighths eup vinegar. 
Bring to boiling point and simmer till thick. 



,d by Google 



SFIOED KHUBAItB Mra. John T. Qilcbrist 

Sprinkle two and one-half pounds sliced rtmbarb with one ponnd 
of sugar and let stand over night. Drain in the morning and add to 
the joice one cup water and one-half cup vinegar. Fat on, boil with 
a apice bag containing one-half teaspoimfal each of ground cloves, 
mace, allspice, ginger and cinnamon. Boil until it makes a good 
STTup, then add rhubarb and cook until thick. 

SPICED OHXBBISS Mre. C. A. Bowman 

Take eight quarts of large red cherries (stoned), cover with cold 
vinegar, let stand over night. Next day turn ofiE all the juice in 
the jar, measure the cherries and take equal parts of sugar and cher- 
riea. Take one tablespoonful cloves, six stie^ of cinnamon, pounded 
a little, put in cheesecloth bag, put in jar with sugar and eherries. 
Stir every few hours for several days until sugar ia thoroughly dis- 
solved. Put in fruit jars. 

SFIOED GRAPES Mrs. J. G. S. 

Remove the skins from seven pounds of grapes, boil until soft 
and pass through sieve. Boil four pounds of sugar and one quart of 
vinegar together, add skins, boiled grapes, one tablespoonful powdered 
cloves; two table spoonfuls powdered cinnamon and boil all together 
for two aud one-half or three hours. 

SFIOED OSAFE JEtLY Mra. W. D. Hnrlbut 

One peek of grapes; one quart vinegar; six pounds sugar; one 
ounce whole cloves; one-fourth ounce stick cinnamon. Boil grapes, 
spices and vinegar together until the grapes are tender. Press through 
sieve and boil the juice thirty minutes. Add heated sugar, boil five 
minutes, testing to see whether it has jellied. Cook longer if neces- 
sary. Pour into hot sterilized jelly glasses and cover with wax. 

OBABAPPLE AND DAHSON 

FLUU JELL7 Mrs. C. A. Carscadin 

Four quarts of crahapples; one quart of damson plums. Wash 
fruit and put on with cold water enough to cover. Let cook until soft, 
drain through a jelly hag and return to kettle with an equal quanti^ 
of sugar. Boil until it jells. This makes a tart jelly which tastes 
like currants. 

QUINOE Am) ORANBEBBT JELLT Mrs. C. A. Carscadin 

Three large quinces ; one quart of cranberries. Wash and quarter 
the quinces, removing the seeds; pick over and wash the cranberries 
and put them in the preserving kettle vrith the quinces; add cold 
water to nearly cover fruit; cook slowly until soft. Allow juice to 
drip through a jelly beg. Boil twenty-five minutes and add an equal 
quantity of heated sugar. Boil five minutes, skim and put in heated 
glasses. Seal. 



..CeKH^Ic 



KENT JELLY Mrs. W. C. ThorboB 

Two bnncliea of fresh mint; one pint boiling water; one-hall box 
gelatin, soaked in one-half cupful cold water; one-half capful lemon 
juice ; one cupful sugar. Crush mint and steep in water one-half hour; 
soak gelatin in cold water and add to mint ; add sugar and lemon juice. 
Strain and color with Bumette's leaf green paste. 

AMBEB JELLT Mrs. M. Evana 

One grape fruit; one orange; one lemon; after washing fruit, slice 
very thin, rejecting only seeds and tough inner pulps of grape frnit. 
Cut sUces in halves and quarters, measure and add two and one-half 
times the quantity of water and set aside for twenty-four hours. Then 
boil gently for fifteen minutes, and set aside another twenty-four hoora. 
Add sugar, measure for measure, to fruit and juice and boil until it 
jellies, which will be for one hour and a half or two hours. Before 
cooking dissolve the sugar through the fruit and juice. Then do not 
stir at all while the process of cooking is going on. The rinda should 
be transparent and the jelly a clear amber hue when done. 

QUINCE AND OBANBEBBY JELLY Mrs. George K. Spoor 

Four pounds quince; two quarts cranberries; cook until mushy; 
then strain for juice and add one cup sugar to every cup of juice. 
Boil fifteen minutes. This makes a beautifully colored jelly. 

PICKLED PEACHES OB PEABS Mrs. J. A. Kaerwer 

One quart vinegar ; two quarts water (eight cups) ; four pounds 
sugar (nine cups) ; put stick cinnamon and five cents worth of cloves 
in bag and boil fifteen minutes. Peal fruit and pour hot syrup over 
fmit and let stand over night. Drain syrup off fruit and reboil symp. 
Pour hot on fruit a second time. The third morning boil syrup again 
twenty minutes, and then boil fruit in syrup. Can and seal. 

PICKLED PEACHES Mrs. N. L. HUliard 

For ten pounds of peaches take five pounds of light brown sugar, 
one ounce whole cloves, one ounce cinnamon stick and one pint vine- 
gar; let it come to a boil and pour over the peaches; let stand until 
next day ; pour off liquid ; reheat and pour over fruit again ; the third 
day reheat the liquid and put in the peaches, a few at a time, and 
boil ; then put in jara and seal. 

BOSE APPLES Mrs. C. E. Jones 

Peel and core six small apples. Put into a saucepan with one 
cupful of sugar, one and one-half cups of water and five cents worth 
of red cinnamon drops. Boil gently until apples are tender and a 
pretty pink color. Remove carefully to a dish and let the syrup 
continue boiling until it jellies. Pour over the apples. Serve as a 
garnish or in glass sherbet cups and top with whipped cream. 



.by Google 



UmCE ICEAT Mrs. T. B. Orr 

One-half beef tongue chopped fine; ais large sour apples; one 
quart of wine ; one cap molasses; juice of one large orange and grated 
rind ; two lemons, that is, jaice and grated rind ; two pints gran- 
nlated sugar; one pint currant jelly; two tablespoonfuls cinnamon; one 
tablespoonful salt; one-half teaspoonful black pepper; two nutmegs; 
one large eup suet chopped fine, cooked; two pounds seeded raisins; 
one cup chopped citron; brandy enough to make moist. Use cold, 
strong coffee if brandy is objectionable, 

HINOE lOiAT A. E. Loring 

One quart bowl each of chopped lean beef and of chopped apples; 
two quinces chopped fine; one-half bowl each of suet and molasses; 
one and one-half bowls each of brown sugar; raieine; currants; one- 
half bowl of candied lemon and orange peel chopped fine; one-half 
bowl of citron chopped fine, grated rind and juice of two lemons; 
one glass jelly: one pint of boiled cider; one pint of sweet cider; four 
level teaspoonfuls cinnamon; one level teaspoonful cloves; one-third 
teaspoonful white pepper; three teaspoonfuls salt and one grated 
nutmeg. Allow meat to cool in the water in which it was cooked; 
remove all membrane from suet and cream it with your h^nd; chop 
meat, add suet, apples, quinces, molasses, sngar, raisins, currants, 
orange and lemon peel, citron, lemon juice, jelly ajid cider; heat 
gradually and let it simmer three hours. "When cool add the spices 
and if desired, brandy to taste. 

WnUCS MEAT 

Mix together one cup chopped apples ; one-half cup raisins, seeded 
and chopped; one-half cup currants: one-fourth cup butter; one table- 
spoonful molasses: one tablespoonful boiled cider; one cup sugar; one 
teaspoonful cinnamon ; one-half teaspoonful each of cloves and grated 
nutmetr; one salt spoon mace. Add enough stock in which meat was 
cooked to moisten; heat gradually to boiling point and simmer one 
hour; then add one can chopped meat and two tablespoonfuls currant 
jelly. Cook fifteen minutes, 

GREEN TOMATO MINOE MEAT Mrs. Ada Woods 

One peck green tomatoes, wash well and cut off blossom end ; pat 
through meat chopper ; put on stove and pour over them boiling water 
and scald; drain this water off, put back on stove and repeat the 
process. After they have been scalded and drained three times, add 
one peck of apples, washed, cored and quartered and put throuffh the 
meat chopner; five pounds sugar; two pounds raisins; one and one- 
half pounds beef suet; two tablespoonfuls salt; three tablespoonfuls 
cinnamon ; one teaspoonful cloves ; two teaspoonfuls nutmeg and one 
teaspoonful allspice. Cook one and one-half hours, stirring constantly 
as it bums very easily ; add three cups vinegar and seal while hot. 



V. 



ooglc 



HINOE UZAT Mrs. J. P. Cobb 

One-balf pound snet ; five ponnda stoned raisins ; three pounds dried 
currants; one and one-hall pound citron; six pounds sugar; one and 
(me-hall pLots molasses ; six pounds round of beef ; one-half peck soar 
apples; one quart boiled cider; one quart California brandy; one pint 
California sherry; three nutmegs; one-half cup cinnamon; one-fonrth 
cup ground cloTes. 

UnrOE HEAT Mrs. Elizabeth Iglehart 

Six pounds round beef chopped fine ; eight pounds chopped apples ; 
four pounds raisins with seeds ; four pounds currants ; one and one-half 
potmds suet shredded; two and one-half pounds sugar; one-half pint 
alcohol; two quarts cider; two quarts water; one nutmeg grated; four 
heaping teaspoonfuls cinnamon; one heaping teaspoonful cloves; six 
heaping teaspoonfuls allspice; two pounds chopped cooked figs; one 
pound chopped citron ; one pint good whiskey. Mix meat and fruits 
thoroughly, then add the liquor. 



,d by Google 



a b, Google 



a b, Google 



BEVERAGES 



Then said fke Judge, "A sweeter draught 
From a fairer hand was never quaffed." 
— W] 



GRAPE JUICE HINT JOLEP Midlothian Countty dab 

One teaspoonfiil powdered sugar; enongli water to dissolTe stucar; 
a dozen sprigs of mint; put in bottom of glass; fill glass with fine iee 
and pour wMte grape juice over that to nearly fill glass, serve with 
slices of orange, pineapple and sprigs of mint on top. 

aSAPE JUIOE Mrs. R. C. Foster 

To ten ponnda of New York Concord grapes add three pints of 
boiled water. Cook and strain. Pat in one pound of granulated sugar. 
Ijet stand over night to clear. Strain in the morning, bring to a boil 
and skim. Have, jars, or bottles, hot, and bottle inunediately. 

GRAPE JUIOE LEMONADE 

Mix the jnioe of two lemons with half a cup of granulated sugar, 
then stir in one pint of grape juice ; continue to stir it until the sugar 
is di^olved, add enough cold water to make a quart of liquid; torn 
into a pitcher in which there is a piece of ice. Add a few thin slices 
of lemon from which the seeds have been removed, and a few mara- 
schino cherries. Serve with an extra supply of lemon and pineapple, 
cherries and sprigs of fresh mint, that each glass may be decorated. 

HULLED GRAPE JUIOE 

Wash and pick over one cupful of seedless raisins ; set over the 
fire with two cupfuls of cold water and four sticks of cinnamon; sim- 
mer very slowly, never reaching a hard boil, for three-quarters of an 
honr. Add to them one quart of grape joioe, and let this become 
scalding hot, take from fire, add jnioe of a lemon and serve hot. 

GRAPE JUIOE Mrs. E. Lewis Phelps 

"Wash and stem four pints of blue grapes. Have a gallon jug 
scalded and drained ; put in grapes and cover with a syrup made of 
two pounds of sugar and eight cups of water; fill jug with boiling 
water; cork tightly. Following morning drive cork in tighter and 
cover with wax. Will be ready to serve in three weeks. 



.by Google 



Beveraces 

ORAPE JUIO£ Mrs. W. D. Hurlbat 

Ten pounds of grapes; tliree pounds of sugar; one cup water. 
Put the grapes and water in the preserving kettle, heat until pulp and 
seeds separate. Strain through jelly bag. Then add sugar to the 
juice heated to boiling point, then pour into hot sterilized bottles and 
seal. When serving add crushed ice. 

GRAPE JUIGE HIQHBALL 

Put a piece of ice in each glass; rather more than half fill the 
glasses with grape juice, thra fill with charged water (from a syphon). 

CHEBBT JULEP Mrs. Louis Oeyler 

Cook one pint of red cherries, stoned, in one-half cupful sugar 
syrup until soft ; cool and add one-half cupful cider ; one-half tfapful 
maraschino and a few sprigs of mint. Crush mint cherries, fill tall 
glasses with shaved ice and mixture alternately and stir, without touch- 
ing glasses with hands, until they are well frosted. Qamish with a 
slice of pineapple and a sprig of mint dipped in powdered sogar. 

OnraEB ale punch mas Agnes Sieber 

Add one bunch of mint to juice of five lemons and one cupful 
sugar; bTuise mint and let stand several hours on ice. Squeeze throagh 
cloth and add one lemon and one orange cut in thin half slices and 
two pints of ginger ale ; add ice and one pint ginger ale. Garnish with 

UINTPUKOH 

Cook one cupful sugar with two cupfuls water, grated rind of an 
orange and a lemon, a piece of stick cinnamon and twelve olores. 
Cool and strain, add juice of three lemons and four oranges; one 
bunch of fresh mint leaves and two drops of oil of spearmint. Place on 
ice for two hours. Strain again and add one-fourth cupful preserved 
ginger, cut in dice. Color green and add ice and one pint club soda. 
Garnish with mint. 

STBAWBEEEY PUKOH 

Mash one qoart strawberries, add juice of one-half pineapple, one 
lemon, two oranges and two cupfuls sugar cooked in five cupfids water. 
Place on ice and strain into pitcher filled with ice and add whole 
strawberries and any fruits in season, 

OBOOOLATE MILK SHAKE 

One-fourth cup finely crushed ice; two tablespoonfuls chocolate 
symp; one-half cup milk; one-fourth cup apoUinaris water or soda 
water from syphon. Put ice in tumbler, add remaining ingredients, 
and shake until well mixed. Serve with or without whipped cream, 
sweetened and flavored. 



.y Google 



Beveracec 

OINQEB ALE Mrs. C. A. Carsoadin 

One and three-fourths pounds of sugar; one and one-half ounce 
whole ginger; two and one-half ounces cream of tartar; one lemon 
sliced; seven quarts of boiling water and two cents worth of yeast. 
Put the sugar and spices in a stone jar; pour boiling water over them 
and let them stand covered in a cool place for twenty-four hours. 
Then add the yeast, dissolved in iute warm water, and let stand again 
for twenty-four hours. Put in bottles, cork well and after three days it 
is ready for use. 

OINGEBADE Mrs. W. L. Gregson 

One quart of cold water, one cup sugar, one-fourth ounce white 
ginger root, juice two oranges and one lemon. Put the water and 
sugar to boil, add ginger root broken into small bits. Let it boil 
twenty minutes after boiling begins, remove from the fire and add 
fruit juice. Strain and cool. Serve with powdered ice and a pre- 
served or sweet cherry in each glass. 

BLACK COW Midlothian Country Gub 

Put fine ice in glass and nearly fill ^th sarsaparilla, pour cream 
carefully on top of that and serve. 

A DELICIOUS FRUIT CUP Midlothian Country Club 

Put one pint of water, one pound of sugar and the grated yellow 
rind of one lemon on to boil for five minutes; strain and while hot 
slice into it two bananas ; one grated pineapple and one-fourth pound 
stoned cherries. When ready to serve add the juice of six lemons. 
Put in the center of your punch bowl, as guard, a block of ice ; pour 
over it two quarts of apollinaris, add the fruit mixture and at the 
last moment one dozen strawberries and mix all together. 

CHOCOLATE TSAPPE S. Blanche Baekman 

Put a quart of rtch milk in a double boiler, stir into it gradually 
three-fourths of a cup grated chocolate and sweeten to taste. Boil 
five minutes, stirring all the while ; then pour into an earthen dish and 
add a teaspoonfol of vanilla and set on ice. Have chopped ice in the 
bottom of the glasses ; tlien fill the glasses within a quarter of an inch 
of the brim. Put sweetened whipped cream on top. If desired the 
whipped cream can be dotted in the middle with froH jelly. 

CBEAUY OOOOA 

Stir together in a saucepan half a cup cocoa, half a cup flour, 
half a cnp grani^ted sugar and half a teaspoonful salt. Add gradu- 
ally one quart boiling water and let mixture boil five minutes, stirring 
it constantly. Remove from fire, add a quart boiling milk, and serve. 
If desired a spoonful whipped cream may be put in each cup before 
filling with cocoa. (Flour should be sifted before measured.) The 
above recipe will serve twelve persons. 



,d by Google 



OmtBANT LEMONADE Mrs. W. L. Gregsou 

One glass o£ currant jelly ; one cup sugar ; two lemons ; beat the 
jelly very thoroughly with the sugar and add the lemon juice and two 
quarts water and a generous piece of ice. 

ICED COFFEE 

Iced coffee served with orange is also delicious. Add half cup 
orange syrop to three cups coffee and shake in a shaker with a little 
chopped ice. Turn into thin glasses and add a spoonful whipped 



COCOA EOG-NOO 

Beat white of an egg to a stiff froth, adding tiny pinch of salt. 
Sweeten, flavor with vanilla and put aside about two teaspoonfnls. 
Add. yolk to the rest and beat well, then add enough rather rich cold 
cocoa to fill tumbler. Stir well together and put the remainder of the 
beaten white on top. Serve at once, and ice cold. 

LEMON TBZFFLE 

Two lemons; two oranges; twelve lumps loaf sugar; two teaspoon- 
fols brandy; two teaspooninls Jamaica rum; a little grated nutmeg; 
one-half pint double cream, whipped. Grate rind of one orange and 
two lemons and squeeze juice of all on the sugar and let stand until 
dissolved. Stir well and serve in glasses with a spoonful of cream 
on top. This serves four persons. 

BABFBEBBT VINEOAB Mrs. W. W. Backman 

Mash six quarts of berries (red or black). Pour two quarts of 
cider over the berries and let them stand all day and night. The 
next day mash six more quarts of berries ; strain first six quarts and 
pour over last six quarts of berries and let stand another night and 
day; then strain all again. To every pint of juice add one pint of 
sugar and boil about twenty minutes ; then bottle. When serving, use 
about one-third of the raspberry vinegar to two-thirds water. 

EOO-NOa 

Beat separately the white and yolk of an egg. Stir a heaping 
teaspoonful of sugar and a tablespoonful of grape juice into the yolk; 
pour into tall glass, add the whipped white and fill glass with un- 
skimmed milk. Serve cold with light cakes or thin bread and butter. 



,dbyGoo<^le 



Beveracea 



,d by Google 



BerevacM 



rfbyGOOgIC 



SANDWICHES 



" Would you know 'how first he met hert 
She was cutting bread and butter." 



SPANISH SANDWICH FILLINO 

One large onioa ; three carrots ; two red peppers ; two green pep- 
pers (without seeds) ; two eggs, hard boiled; two soor pickles, (^op 
all the vegetables and pickle very fine; squeeze dry in a cheese cloth, 
add the chopped eggs and one-half cup mayonnaise. 

LUNCHEON SANDWICH Mrs. C. S. Junge 

Fry two slices of bacon for each sandwich. Toast bread. Pour 
over the first layer of toast a little of the bacon fat. In remaining 
fat stir a tablespoonful flour, add a cup and a half of milk and cook 
nntil creamed. On the slice of toast place a slice of cold roast beef, 
chicken or veal, and on that two slices of tomatoes ; tlien the slices of 
bacon. Place on the second slice of toast and torn over all the 
creamed gravy, and serve. 

TASTy FILLINO Mrs. W. D. Hnrlbnt 

One bunch of radishes, washed but with the skins left on and a 
bit of the green stem; one Spanish onion peeled; chop together until 
very fine. Make a highly seasoned boiled mayonnaise, mix with the 
radishes and onion and spread thin slices of battered bread; put a 
lettuce leaf over the mixture and then another slice of buttered bread. 

ANCHOVY SANDWICH Mrs. Francis A, Sieber 

Two tablespoonf uls creamed butter ; one-half cup grated cheese ; 
one teaspoonful French mustard; one teaspoonful Tarragon vinegar; 
and anchovy paste. Add one tablespoonful minced olives, pickles, 
salt and paprika. Spread on bread. 

CHICKEN AND BACON SANDWICH Mrs. Louis Oeyler 

Mix equal portions of chicken, bacon and celery; add one. tea- 
spoonful minced green pepper and a few drops of tarragon vinegar. 
Lay lettuce strips across sandwiches and when serving, lay a slice of 
tomato on each and cover with the minced chicken mixture. Top with 
a spoonful of m^onnaise. 



■ by Google 



a b, Google 



sANTwnr 



"Wet^ jwi. nm mr 



v'anzwoll 

spoonfuls 



■■wick Wells 

ith an eqaal 

I'cs of bread 

s lay a heart- 



SPAKISHfl 

One large osna 
pens (witliout aeeA 
all the vegetabls « 
add the ehqiped «c 

LUNCHEOH Bin 

Pry two HiiEK 
over the fint I^ve: 
fat Btir a t 
until c 
chiekeu or -vaL ^do m- ~ 
bacon. Flaae witm^^^' 
creamed gaery.^mtwr' 



; rs. p. E. Place. 
iee several hours 
■iid between thin 

>rrs. J. E. KeUy 
ne tablespoonful 

" water; one-half 

1^ boiler till thick. 

il! can pimentoes; 

'• nnts and cream 



itli cream cheese 
balf-inch slices. 



i 



a b, Google 



SAiniWICH (OmOEEN AND HAM) Miss Agnes Sieber 

Mix one cup minced chicken with two-thiida cap minced ham; add 
f oar tablespoonfols each of chopped pickles, piementoes and creamed 
cheese, mashed smooth. Add paprika and spread on bread. 

BEEFSTEAS: BAKDVTICB Mrs. W. B. McGhee 

Have a cut of tenderloin of beef for each sandwich ; butter two 
slices of bread and lay tbem side by side ; broil the steak, Beasoning 
well and lay on one piece of bread ; on the other place a slice of Spanish 
onion which has been thoroughly chilled to make it brittle. 

CHEESE, PEOAN NUT AND PIMENTO SANDWICH 

Cut Boston brown bread and white bread into thin slices and stamp 
into rings with a doughnut cutter. Beat one-fourth cupful of butter 
to a cream ; gradually beat in half a cupful (measured light) of grated 
cheese, half a teaspoonful paprika and one-fourth cupful sliced pecan 
nut meats. Use this to spread the prepared bread ; drop on the miz> 
tore here and there thin slices of piemento, then press the two pieces 
together. 

CHEESE SANDWICHES Mra Helen Armstrong 

One hard boiled egg; one-half teaspoonful salt; one-fourth pound 
grated cheese; one-half teaspoonful pepper; one-half teaspoonful mus- 
tard ; one tablespoonful melted butter ; three tablespoonf uls lemon juice ' 
or vinegar. Rub yolk of egg to paste and add salt and pepper, butter 
and mustard ; then add lemon juice to make right consistency. Spread 
between thin slices of bread. 

DBEAH SANDWICHES Mrs. W. h. Clock 

One-half cup of pecan nuts chopped fine; one-half cup stoned 
raisins; one apple; juice of one-half lemon; one spoonful sugar. Mix 
with a small amount of cream and spread it on bread thin. It makes an 
excellent filling for sandwiches. 

HOT CHEESE SANDWICHES 

These are particularly nice for Sunday evening teas. Slice the bread 
very thin; put a thick layer of grated cheese between the two forms; 
sprmkle with salt and a dash of cayenne pepper and press the bread 
well together. Fry them to a delicate brown on each side in equal 
parts of hot lard and butter and serve very hot. 

HOT CHEESE SANDWICH Mrs. W. D. Hurlbut 

On a slice of bread, weU buttered, place a fairly thick piece of 
yellow American cheese ; sprinkle with salt and paprika pepper ; cover 
with another slice of buttered bread and place imder the blaze in the 
broiler to toast; when one side is done turn over and toast other side. 
By the time both sides are toasted the cheese is quite soft. 



byGoogle 



Sandwlclte* 



JANE DABNEY'S CHEESE SANDWICH Mary S. YauzwoU 

One and one-half cups grated cheese; one e^; two tablespoonfuU 
cream. Spread on bread and cover with a slice of bacon. Brown in a 
medium oven. 

CHEESE AND NUT SANDWICHES a&rj Barwick Wells 

Chop pecana, hickory nuts or English walnuts ; mix with an eqaal 
quantity of cream or Neufchatcl cheese. Butter thin slices of bread 
and spread with the cheese and nuts. Between the slices lay a heart- 
leaf of lettuce dipped in mayonnaise dressing. 

OUOimBER SANDWICH Mrs. F. E. Place. 

Peel and slice cucumbers like wafers; put on the ice several hours 
before using. Mix with an oil mayonnaise and spread between thin 
slices of bread. 

FILLING FOE PIEMENTO SANDWICHES Mrs. J. E. KeUy 

Two table spoonfuls sugar; one teaspoonfnl salt; one tablespoonfnl 
flour; mix. Tolks of two eggs, beaten; one-half cup water; one-half 
cup vinegar; one teaspoonful butter. Cook in double boiler till thick. 
Add to : Three Eagle brand cream cheese ; one small can pimentoes ; 
one cupful walnuts or pecans; grind pimentoes and nuts and cream 
into the cheese. 

LAYER SANDWICHES 

Five slices of Boston brown bread, put together with cream cheese 
reduced with sweet cream or mayonnaise ; cut down in half-inch slices. 

OLIVE SANDWICHES 

Chop one-third olives and two-third chicken livers that have been 
thoroughly cooked and mashed quite smooth ; mix with thick mayon- 
naise dressing. Serve in white bread, ice cold. 

EGG AND GBEEN PEPPER SANDWICH 

Six hard boiled eggs ; one green pepper ; two tablespoonfuls olive 
oil; one tablespoonful ketchup; one-fourth teaspoonful salt and mus- 
tard; cream. Chop eggs and pepper, mix other ingredients and add 
to chopped eggs, moisten with cream and spread between thin slices 
of buttered bread. Cut in fancy shapes and keep in damp cloth until 
ready to serve. 

MAPLE SANDWICH Judith Slocam 

Put one cupful of finely shaved maple sugar through the meat 
chopper with one cupful of blanched almonds, then mix to a paste 
with thick sweet cream. Spread on slices of brown bread and white 
bread. 



.by Google 



BaAdwiohM 



DATE AND NUT SANDWICHES 

Kemove the stones and scales front the dates and break them up 
with a fork. Chop pecan meats fine and use twice as man; dates as 
nuts. Mix together and moisten with creamed butter, add a dash of 
salt. Spread between thin slices of bread. 

OABBOT AND NUT SANDWICH 

Peel and chop carrots very fine ; allow a eup of minced nut meats 
to each cup of carrots and mix with mayonnaise. 



,dbyGoo<^Ie 



Baadwlohe* 



,d by Google 



ab,Goo<^le 



EGG DISHES 



BAKED ECKffl Mrs. C. A. Bowman 

Cover bottom of pan with fresh bread cmmbs; drop eggs on 
them, being careful not to break them ; dot with butter and seasoning 
and bake. 

OMELET Mrs. E. Lewis Phelps 

One and one-half tablespoonfnl floor ; one and one-half tablespoon- 
fui butter; blend over £re and add one cup of milk. (This should be 
thick and stiff when cooked.) When about cold, add one eup grated 
cheese (yellow American preferred) ; beat the yolka of seven eggs 
stiff, and when cold fold in the beaten whites; add a little salt. Mince 
some cold boiled ham, onion and green pepper for a center filling. 
Set the diah in pan of water and bfU^e. 

EGO BALLS Mrs. Ben Craycroft 

Serve with salad. Bub the yolka of four hard boilod eggs to a 
paste; add a dash of salt, same of pepper; six drops of Worcestershire 
sauce, and one teaspoonful melted butter. Moisten with the beaten 
yolk of one egg and shape in small balls.- Boll in flour and saute in 
butter. Fry to a delicate brown. 

ESOALLOPED EOGS Mrs. Ben Craycroft 

Six eggs; two tablespoonfuls of cream to each egg; season with 
pepper, butter and salt and sprinkle cracker or bread crumbs over the 
top. Bake in rather quick oven. 

ESOALLOPED EOGS 

Make a force meat of chopped ham, fine bread emmbs, pepper, 
salt, a little minced parsley and some melted butter. Moisten it with 
milk to a soft paste and half fill patty pans with the mixture. Break 
an egg carefully upon the top of each, dust with pepper, salt and sift 
some very finely powdered cracker over it all. Set in hot oven and 
bake until the eggs are well set (about eight minutes), and serve hot. 

A SETTnTG OF EGGS Mrs. Ben Craycroft 

Take the number of eggs to be cooked and separate the whites 
and yolks. Beat the whites to a froth, add a little salt. Butter a 
pan ; then pour in the whites ; then dip the yolks around in the whites ; 
put in oven, bake two or three minutes and serve. 



■ by Google 



F*1W OMELET Mrs. QorliBm 

Chop fine cold boiled ham. Beat four e^s ; add two tablespoon- 
fuls milk, salt and pepper to taste. Mix with ham and hy on hot grid- 
dle, dropping a spoonful at a time. Serve hot. Any cold meat may 
be utilized in the same way. 

OMELET Mrs. Edward E. Swadener 

Four eggs ; one-half cnpfal milk. Separate the whites of the eggs, 
beat to a stiff froth ; beat the yolks well and add salt, pepper and one- 
half cupful milk. Fold in the beaten whites. Have the oven hot ; 
have the spider hot, pnt in a generous tablespoonfnl butter (bacon or 
ham drippings may be nsed), and when it melts add eggs. Let the 
omelet "set," then put it into the hot oven to brown. It should slip 
out of the spider without breaking if enough butter (or substitute) 
has been used. Have platter heated on which the omelet is to be 
served. 

EGGS POACHED WITH ABTI0H0KE8 Mrs. Francis A. Sieber 

Cover eight rounds of toast with eight artichoke fonds (cooked 
or canned). Put a whole poached egg in center of each, and cover 
with brown sauce seasoned with ham. Dust eggs with powdered 
parsley. 

EGGS IN GREEN PEPPEKS Mrs. Louis Geyler 

Chop one-half dozen hard boiled eggs; add one-half cup minced 
ham, and fill a buttered dish lined with crumbs with alternate layers 
of eggs and cream sauce, seasoned with salt, minced green peppers, 
parsley and chives. Spread crumbs on top, dot with butter, and bake ; 
or bake in green peppers. 

SPANISH EGG Mrs. Harry H. SmaU 

Blend two tablespoonfuls of melted butter and one tablespoonful 
of fiour in a chafing dish. Add one pint of milk and cook to a thick 
cream. Add salt and paprika and a dash of cayenne pepper. Then 
add half a pound of American cheese cut in very small pieces and cook 
until well blended together. Have one large onion and one green 
pepper cut in chips and fried tender in butter, taking care not to 
brown the onion. Add to the onion and pepper one-half can of toma- 
toes, cook for five minutes together, and add to the cream sauce. Have 
six eggs boiled hard, slice and add to the mixture. Serve on toast on 
hot plates. 

EGOS IN BATTER 

One egg; one and one-half tablespoonfuls thick cream; two ta- 
blespoonfuls fine stale bread crumbs ; one-fourth teaspoonful salt. 
Mix cream, bread crumbs and salt. Put one-half tablespoonful of 
mixture in e^-shirrer. Slip in egg and cover with remaining mix- 
ture. Bake six minutes in moderate oven. 



,yCoogle 



SCOTCH £008 FOB BREAKFAST Mrs. A. M. Studle? 

Boil six eggs twenty mimitea. When cold, remove . shells. Roll 
in satisage meat abont one-half inch thick all over ; put in the ice box 
over night. Then fry, tnming all the time till brown. Serve on 
platter, cutting them open, and garnish with Saratoga potatoes. 

POACHED EOOS ON BICE TOAST 

Put one quart of rice into one quart of boiling water, to which baa 
been added one teaspoonful salt, boil rapidly for fifteen minutes, then 
place on back of stove and steam twenty minutes. When the riee has 
absorbed all of the water press into a square mold or bread pan and set 
aside to cool. When cold cut into slices, place in wire broiler and 
toast over hot fire. Poach as many eggs as you have slices of toast 
and place an egg on each slice. Sprinkle with pepper and salt and 
serve very hot. 

EOOa DEUCIOnS Alice Clock 

Six hard boiled eggs; one pint milk; one tablespoonful (heap- 
ing) butter; two tablespoonfuls flour; one tin sifted peas. Mix the 
butter and flour smoothly ; slowly add milk while stirring constantly 
over slow fire, until white sauce is nicely smooth. Season sauce to 
taste, with paprika and salt ; and add bard-boiled eggs, cut in halves. 
Pour over the whole the sifted peas, and as soon as the peas are heated, 
being careful not to stir, serve on rounds of toast. This amount will 
serve six people. 

EOO ^ilJSH Mrs. A. Donald Campbell 

One eupfnl of bread crumbs ; one cup cream and five eggs. When 
the cream has been absorbed by the crumbs and the eggs well beaten 
add pepper and salt with a teaspoonful of chopped parsley. Pry as 
an omelet. 

EOO OABNISH 

Boil six eggs. Cut them into halves, and remove yolks. Pill 
the whites with chopped cucumbers, over which a French dressing has 
been poiired. Serve these upon shredded lettuce. 

A LUNCHEON DISH Mrs. William E. Mason 

Butter baking dish; drop in six eggs, whole; grate American 
cheese, thickly. Sprinkle a little salt, pepper and small pieces of but- 
ter over them and bake slowly. Serve in baking dish. 

EGOS A LA BUCKmOHAM 

Make five slices milk toast, and arrange on platter. Use receipe 
for scrambled eggs, having the eggs slightly under-done. Pour eggs 
over toast, sprinkle with four tablespoonfuls grated mild cheese. Put 
in oven to melt cheese, and finish cooking eggs. 



,d by Google 



EGOS A LA OOLDZNSOD Charlotte Y. Thearle 

Three hard boiled eggs, one tablespoonful butter, one table- 
^oonfol flonr, one cup milk, one-half teaspoonfnl salt, one-third tea- 
spoonful pepper, five Bliees toast, parsley. Make a thin white sauce 
with butter, fiour, milk and seasonings. Separate yolks from whites 
of eggs. Chop whites finely and add them to the sauce. Cut four 
slices of toast in halves lengthwise. Arrange on platter and pour over 
the sauce. Force the yolks through a potato ricer or strainer, sprink- 
ling over the top. Garnish with parsley and remaining toast cut in 
points. 

EQOS A LA HABTIN 

One cup white sauce, six eggs, one-fourth pound grated cheese. 
Break eggs carefully into a well buttered pudding dish, cover with 
white sauce and sprinkle cheese over alL Bake fifteen minutes in mod- 
erate oven. 

EGOS A LA LEE Mrs. Harry F. Atwood 

Cover circular pieces of toasted bread with thin slices cold boiled 

ham. Arrange on each a dropped egg, and pour around mushroom 

sauce. 

Sauce : Clean one-fourth pound mushrooms, break cap in pieces, 

and saute five minutes in one tablespoonful butter. Add one cup 

chicken stock and simmer five minutes. Bub through a sieve and 

thicken with one tablespoonful each butter and flour cooked together. 

Season with salt and pepper. 

EOGS A LA FBANCOISE 

Poach two eggs in boiling water acidulated with lemon juice and 
slightly salted. Arrange the eggs on rounds of toasted bread, poor 
over a tomato sauce made as follows, and garnish with toast points. 

Sauce: Put one large tableapooufnl butter in the chafing dish 
(or skillet), one teaspoonfnl minced onion, one tablespoonful minced 
carrot and fry. With this blend two level tablespoonfols flour and 
add one cup of canned tomatoes sifted, and one-third teaspoonfnl beef 
extract. Dissolve in one tablespoonful hot water, simmer and strain. 

TO son. EGOS FOB AN INVALID 

Have water boiling, pour over eggs and cover tightly; put on 
back of stove and stand five minutes. The whites of the eggs will be 
firmly set and the yolks soft. 



rfbyGoOgle 



.ibiGoogle 



X^IHahM 



,dbyGoogIe 



CHEESE DISHES 



"Wilt, please, yovr honor, tatte of thiae." 



CHEESE BALLS Mrs. 'W. H. Hart 

One and one-half capfnls cream cheese ; one-half teaspoonf ol salt ; 
one-fonrth teaspoonful paprika ; three eggs, whites heaten firm ; cracker 
crumbs. Add salt and paprika to cheese, then fold in whites and roll 
into small balls; roll in cracker ommbs and try in deep fat. 

OHEESE SOUFFI£ Mrs. Max Mauerman 

Two tablespoonfols flour; two tablespoonfuls butter; one-half cnp 
grated cheese ; four eggs ; one pint of milk. 

Method: Bub butter and flour together over fire; when they bub- 
ble, add gradually hot milk. Remove from fire; add tJie beaten yolks; 
cool the mixture; then add the beaten whites, stirring all together 
thoroughly. Put in baking dish well buttered, hake in moderately hot 
oven for fifteen or twenty minutes or until it sets like custard. Serve 
at once. 

OHEESE SOUFFLE Mrs. Frank Sessions 

Break a slice of fresh bread about three inches thick into small 
pieces, pour over it a cup of milk, let stand while you prepare the rest 
of the ingredients. Orate enough yellow American cheese to make 
three heaping tablespoonfuls; beat three eggs until light and frothy; 
add the cheese and eggs to the bread, mix thoroughly and put in a 
buttered baking didi ; bake half an hour or until brown. Serve imme- 
diately. 

FROZEN OHEEra 

Rub two Neufchatel cheese to a paste, add one cup whipped 
cream, one-half cup finely chopped olives, one-fourth cup finely chopped 
pimentoes. Season with salt, cayenne, lemon juice or vinegar to taste. 
Soften one teaspoonful granulated gelatine in one tablespoonful cold 
water, dissolve over hot water, cool and add to cheese, mix well and 
turn into one-half pound baking powder cans previoasly wet with cold 
water, cover with a piece of white paper, adjust covers and pack in ice 
and salt. Let stand for several hours. Serve with salad course with 
toasted water crackers. 



« by Google 



Olieeae IHalies 

SUNDAY ttUVPER W3BR Mn. A. Donald Campbell 

One cnp com meal ; one quart of mill:, salted to taste. Cook in 
doable boiler. Just before removing, add one egg. Spread tbe mix- 
tore on a board three-fourtba inch thick. When cold, cot in shapes 
and put slice of American cheese on top, put in buttered dish and set 
in oven long enough for cheese to melt and brovn. 

OHEESE DEUGHT Urs. H. Clay Calboon 

One-half ponnd American cheese; two eggs, well beaten; salt and 
paprika to taste. Cook in a double boUer tintil thick. Serve on round 
of bread and toast in oven. 

CHEESE BIOE Mrs. Ralph WOder 

Fill a baking dish with alternate layers of cooked salted rice and 
grated cheese; moisten with milk and covw witii bits of batter; add 
dash of red pepper if liked. Bake to golden brown. 

OHEESE STRAWS Mrs. Elizabe^ F. Pearoe 

One cnpfal grated cheese; salt and pepper to taate; two table- 
spoonfols melted butter; three tablespoonfuls cold water, and flour 
sufficient for soft dough. Cat into strips. Bake in a quick oyen 
until brown and crispy. 

OHEESE BALLS Snsy M. Horton 

Beat two eggs very lif^t, and just enoogh grated cheese to handle 
the mixture, red pepper and salt to taste. Boll into balls, the size 
of a walnut, dip in egg and cracker emmhe and fry in hot laid a deli- 
cate brown. To be served hot with salad. 

WELSH HAEEBIT Mrs. Harry H. Small 

One pound of American cheese cut in dice; batter the size of an 
egg; melt butter and cheese in a chafing dish, blending together until 
smooth. Beat up one egg and stir into cheese, adding mUk until the 
right consistency. Add mustard salt and paprika and a teaapoonfal 
of Worcestershire sance. Serve on thin slices of toast, on hot plates. 

WELSH BAHEBZT 

One cup hot milk ; one-quarter pound grated cheese -, one-half tea- 
spoonful salt; one-quarter teaspoonfal mustard; one teaspoonful flour; 
one teaspoonful butter; one egg; dash of cayenne. Fat the milk to 
heat. Mix the grated cheese, floor, mustard, salt, cayenne and egg well 
beaten, add milk when hot, a little at a time, to the mixture, stirring 
aU the time. Cook until smooth and very creamy. Take from heat 
and add butter, stirring well. Serve hot on slices of toast. The milk 
should be added slowly. Toast bread on one side only. Poor rarebit 
on ontoasted side. 



ITS 



,dbyGoo<^Ie 



OlLsese Dishes 

CHEESE WATERS Mra. Helen ArmBtrong 

Beat the wMtes of two eggs very stiff; add pepper and salt; mix 
in gently half a cap grated t^eese ; spread lightly over salted wafers. 
Sprinkle with cheese and brown in moderate oven. 

CHEESE BALLS Mrs. Fred L. Eimmey 

Whites of three eggs; one cup grated cheese; one tahlespoonfnl 
flonr; pinch of salt and red pepper. Form into balls, roll in cracker 
crumbs and fry in deep fat. This makes fifteen small balls. 



!d by Google 



ab,Goo<^le 



CANDIES 



"A wUdemess of sweets." 

— ^Milton. 



FONDANT Mrs. K A. ThompBon 

Two and one-half pounds Sue grannlated sugar ; one and one-half 
caps water; one-half teaspoonful eream of tartar. Place in a sanoepan, 
Bet on back of stove. When clear let come to a boil until it reaches 
242 degrees, or until it holds together when dropped into cold water. 
Take &om fire and cool. When lukewarm, beat until thick enough 
to kneed, torn out on marble or platter and work until thick, 

rONDANT 

One pound white sugar and half cup water, stir over the fire until 
it dissolves, no longer. Then boil, without stirring, tmtil it makes a 
very soft ball when tested in water (cold). Pour out on a platter and 
when slightly cool beat uutil you have a creamy mass, then work and 
knead with the hands until it is soft and smooth. Never boil but one 
pound of sugar at a time no matter how much candy you intend 
making. Pack your fondant all together in an earthen bowl and cover 
with a damp cloth until the next day. Then shape into the desired 
forms. Use for all kinds of French creams. 

UEZIOAN OABAMELS Mrs. A. Donald Campbell 

One cup grannlated sugar; one large cup milk or cream; one- 
fourth teaspoonful soda. Caramel the sugar and add soda to milk 
warmed; after caramel is dissolved add two cups of brown sugar; do 
not let boil until sugar is thoroughly dissolved; then boil nntU it 
hitrdens when dropped in cold water. Add cnp of nut meats. 

OOFFEE OASAMELS 

One cupful sugar and one-half cupful cream and one-quarter cup- 
ful strong coffee. Stir constantly over a hot fire, and turn on a 
greased tin. 

UAPLE OASAHELS 

One cupful sugar (maple) and three-quarters of a cupful of cream, 
placed in a saucepan. Stir constantly over a hot fire until it reaches 
the hard boil stage. Remove from fire, and turn on a greased tin. 



logle 



VAWTTJiA OABAMELS 

Two level cups "Coffee C" brown sugar; one-lialf cup corn 
syrup ; two-thirds cup cream ; one cup chopped nuts. Boil sugar, cream 
and com syrup without stirring until bard ball forms when tried in 
cold water. Add nuts and vanilla, remove from fire and pour at once 
into buttered tin. Do not stir caramels. When cold, remove from pan 
in one sheet and cut in squares. Wrap in wax paper. 

OHOOOLATE OARAKBLB 

Pat in a saucepan half a cupful each of molasses, white sugar 
and brown sugar; a cupful of grated chocolate and a cupful of cream 
or milk. Stir the mixture constantly over the fire until it reaches the 
hard-boil stage. Then add a teaspoonful vanilla and turn it onto a 
buttered tin, making the paste an inch thick. Mark it into inch squares 
and cut before it is quite cold. 

OHOOOLATE OABAHELB Hra. E. A. Thompson 

Two squares chocolate; one cup sugar; one cap molasses; one cup 
milk; one-half cup melted butter. Boil on the top of stove over a 
brisk fire until it becomes brittle when dropped in cold water. Do not 
stir, but shake the vessel while boiling. Pour into a battered tin and 
check off into squares. 

VANILLA OASAMELS 

One cupful sugar and three-quarters of a cupful cream, placed 
in a saucepan. Stir constantly over a hot fire until it reaches the 
hard-boil stage. Remove from fire, add a teaspoonful vanilla and torn 
on a greased tin. 

KAS.0 OABAMEI^ 

Boil one cup sugar, one cup Karo com syrup, one-fourth cup water 
six minutes, then add two tablespoonfuls butter, and cook to the soft 
ball stage. Beat in a teaspoonful of vanilla extract or half a cup 
candied cherries cut in halves ; beat thoroughly and turn into a shal- 
low battered dish, "Wben cold cut in cubes and wrap in confectioner's 
paper. 

ENGLISH WALNUT OANDT 

The white of one egg, beaten stiff; add a pound of Confectioners' 
sugar; stirring the sugar and egg till the mixture is stiff enough to 
roll into little balls. Add vanilla, and press the balls of candy between 
the halves of an English walnut. 

OOCOANUT OANDT 

Two cups white sugar; one cup milk; one cup molasses; one-half 
cup butter; try ob molasses candy, and when done add one and one-half 
caps cocoanut and one teaspoonful vanilla. 



MAPLE OREAM 

To one pound of maple sugar take half a pint cream. Cook 
tmtil it hardens in water. Stir frequently. Beat until cool. 

CHOCOLATE CREAMS 

Pat three sqnarea of chocolate in a dish over a tea kettle to melt. 
Boil two cups of white sugar, one cup water, one teaspoonful of glu- 
cose until stringy; beat until creamy; mold into the desired shapes and 
dip in chocolate. Put on whole nuta if desired. 

NOVOAT 

One capful almonds, chopped and placed in oven to dry, being 
careful not to brown. Put into a saucepan two and one-half oupfnls 
powdered sugar and a tablespoonful lemon juice. Place it on fire 
and stir with a wooden spoon until it is melted and slightly colored. 
Let stand for a few minutes, so it will be thoroughly melted, then 
turn in the hot almonds, mix them together quickly, not stirring long 
enongh to grain the sugar, and turn it on to an oiled slab or tin. 
Spread it out in an even sheet an eighth of an inch thick. While it 
is still warm mark o£F into squares. Break into pieces when cold. 

BUaASED ALMONDS 

Put ft cupful granulated sugar in a saucepan with a little water, 
Btir until it is dissolTed, then let it cook to the boil stage without 
touching except to test. Tom in half cupful of blanched almonds 
and stir ofE the fire until the nuts arc well covered with the gran- 
ulated sugar, but turn them out before they become a mass. Boil 
another cupful of sugar and turn the coated almonds into it, and 
stir again m the same way, giving them a second coating of sugar, 
bat do not leave them in the pan until they are all stuck together. 

BUBNT ALMONDS 

Place a cnpfal of brown sugar into a saucepan with a very little 
irater. Stir antil the sugar is dissolved. Let it boil a minute, then 
poor in half a cupful of almonds and stir over the fire until the sugar 
granulates and is a little brown. When the nuta are well coated, and 
before tiiey get into one mass, turn them out and separate any that 
are stuck together. 

MABSHMALLOWS 

One-half box granulated gelatin soaked in three-fourths cup cold 
water (scant) ; two cups sugar cooked with three-fourths cup boiling 
water (scant) only until dissolved. Pour over gelatin, add flavoring 
and pinch salt and let stand until lukewarm. Beat first with egg 
beater, then with a spoon until stiff enongh to spread in sheets. Pour 
Into pans thickly dusted with mixture of powdered sugar and little 
com starch. When chilled, turn on marble slab or platter and cut in 
cubes, roll in powdered sugar mixture and serve. 

188 



■ by Google 



UASSHMALLOWS 

Soak four ounces of gam arable in a capful of water until it is 
dissolTed. Strain it to take out any black specks in it. Pot tiie dis- 
solved gnm arabic into a saacepan with bfdf a pound of powdered 
sugar. Place the saucepan in a second pan containing boiling water; 
stir nntil the mixture becomes thick and white. "Wben it is begin- 
ning to thicken test it by dropping a little into cold water ; when it 
will form a ball remove it from fire. Stir into it the whites of three 
eggs whipped to a stiff froth. This will give a spongy texture. Lastly, 
flavor it with two teaspoonfnls of orange water. Turn the paste into 
a pan covered thick with cornstarch; the layer of paste should 
be one inch thick. After the paste has stood for a while turn it 
onto a slab and cut it into inch sqnares; dost them well with corn- 
starch or confectioner's sugar. As the paste is more or less cooked 
it will be more or less stiff. 

PEPPERMINT OE 

WINTEROREEN PATTIES Mrs. E. A. Thompson 

One potind confectioner's sngar; six large tablespoonfuls water; 
six drops oil of peppermint or wintergreen ; a little bit of cream of 
tartar put into a cup with a bit of sngar and the oil. Boil until it 
ropes, then remove from fire and stir in the cream of tartar, oil and the 
sngar. 

OHOOOLATE PEPPEKHINTS Mrs. A. H. Wagoner 

Take two pounds confectioner's sugar and add enough water to 
make it the right consistency to roll into balls. Flavor with pepper- 
mint and roll out on waxed paper with a rolling pin. Cut out the pep- 
permints. With water in the under part of the chafing dish melt half - 
a pound of Baker's chocolate and dip the peppermint on the end of a 
fork. Set on waxed paper to harden. 

SEA FOAM 

Two caps light brown sugar; one-half cup water; boil together 
nntil a little dropped in cold water forma a soft ball. Eemove from 
fire. Beat in a deep bowl the whites of two eggs to a froth, add candy 
syrup, one-half teaspoonful vanilla and beat iu until it begins to stiffen. 
Drop with spoon on waxed paper and press on a nut meat. Will keep 
moist in a glass jar, 

DIVINITV rUDGE Mrs. A. Donald Campbell 

Whites of two eggs, well beaten; two cups granulated sugar; one- 
third cup Karo com syrup boiled together with one-half cup hot water; 
boil until syrup forma hard (not brittle) strands when dropped in cold 
water; one teaspoonful vanilla. Pour the boiling mixture over whites 
of eggs, beating constantly; beat mixture until pure white. Add nuts 
or cherries, etc., which should be out up before cooking syrup. Turn 
entire mixture out on buttered platter; let stand an hour, or until 
hard enough to cut 

■,„,Cooglc 



DIVINITY OANDY 

Two and one-half cups granulated sugar; one-half cup corn syrap; 
one-half cup cold vater; -whites of two eggs heaten to a stiff froth. 
Boil the first three ingredients until a little dropped into cold water 
can be formed into a firm ball. When done pour over the eggs and 
beat until stiff, then add one cup walnut meats. Spread in a buttered 
pan and cut into squares. 

OCEAN FOAM 

One cup sugar; one-half cup com syrup; one-half cup water. Boil 
mixture until hard when dropped in cold water. Add stiffly beaten 
whites of two eg^, beat until it stiffens and becomes foamy. Add one 
cup nuts and vanilla to flavor. Pour into buttered tin. 

FUDOEB Emily L. Wegner 

Two cups granulated sugar; one cup milk; one-half teaspoonful 
butter; two squares Baker's bitter chocolate, iSit on sugar and milk, 
let it come to a boil before adding butter and chocolate. Beat con- 
stantly. Cook from fifteen to twenty minntes. This may be varied by 
adding chopped nnts or grated cocoanut. 

FUDGE 

Boil together a pint of milk; a cup of granulated sugar; a cup of 
grated chocolate and butter the size of an egg. When a drop of the 
mixture hardens in cold water add a teaspoonful vanilla, beat until 
smooth and creamy ; spread in a buttered pan and cut into squares. 

CHOCOLATE FUDGE 

One cupful milk ; two squares or ounces of chocolate ; two cupfuls 
granulated sugar placed in granite sauce pan. Let chocolate symp boil 
till it hardens, when a little can be dropped in cold water or on ice to 
see if it is done. Then stir in a heaping tablespoonfnl butter and potu* 
the mixture at once on a well buttered tin. Nuts can be added to this 
if desired. 

OASAMEL FUDGE 

Two cups granulated cane sugar; three-fourths cup milk; one- 
half cup bntter; one teaspoonful vanilla; one cup nuts. Place the 
butter, milk and one and one-half cups sugar in one pan, and let it 
boil. In another pan melt the half cup sugar, and when melted pour 
upon it the boiling mixture. Remove from fire _ and beat until it 
thickens; add vanilla and nuts. Pour on buttered platter. 

PEAHXTT BUTTER FUDGE 

Two cups confectionery sugar; two tablespoonfuls peanut butter; 
one-half cup milk. When mixture starts to boil, stir constantly until 
it thickens. Pour into buttered tin. 



i,y Google 



OBEAU OF OABAHZL TUDGX 

Boil two and one-half capfnls brown sugar, o&a cupful oream. 
When hard turn on a greased tm. 

KAPLE rUDGE 

Break into small pieces a poond of maple sugar and put it over 
the fire with a cnpfol of milt. Bring it to a boil, add a tablespoonfal 
of butter and cook until a little dropped in cold water becomes brittle. 
Take from fire, stir until it begins to granulate a little about the aides 
of the pan, and then pour into a greased pan. Mark into squares with 
a knife. 

MAPLE 8TT0AB FtTDDE 

Boil two and one-half cupfuls maple sugar, one cupful cream. 
When little hard turn on greased tin. 

COOOANUT FUDGE 

Boil two and one-half eupfuls white sugar, one cupful cream. Add 
one tablespoonful butter, and when hard pour on greased tin. 

OAlfDIED OBANQE FEEL Mrs. A. J. Langan 

Take nice thick orange peel, soak over night in salt water. In 
the morning take out peel, boil in fresh water nntil tender, then add 
sugar, pound for pound, boil until the peel is clear and thick. Seal in 
glass jars, and when wanted cut in long strips, roU in sugar and serve. 

ORANGE OB 

GEAPE FBUIT STBAWS Mrs. Harry Fagin, Valparaiso, Ind. 
Take peeling of two large oranges, or grape fruit, or both, and cut 
with scissors in narrow lengthwise strips. Cover with cold water, put 
on stove and boil twenty minutes. Pour ofF water. Cover with water 
and boU twenty minutes more. Pour off water. Cover with water and 
boil twenty minutes more. Pour ofF water and add one cup sugar and 
one-half cup of hot water. Let simmer until almost d^, taking ea^ 
not to bum. Take trtsm stove and roll, a few at a time, in grainulated 
sugar. 

HONET OANST 

Four tablespoonfuls honey, one pint white sugar, water enon^ 
to dissolve sugar; boil until brittle when tried in water. Wheu oool 
pnU. 

BUTTER SOOTOH Mrs. R. A. Dandliker 

Two cups sugar; two tablespoonfuls vinegar; two tablespoonfoli 
water; four tablespoonfuls molasses; one-half cup butter. Boil about 
fifteen minutes, then add two teaspoonfuls vanilla. Cook till it hardens 
in water, do not stir. Pour into buttered pans. 



,d by Google 



TH&EE UnnJTE BUTTEB-SOOTOH 

Use three-fourths eup sagu:, one tablespoonful water, butter size 
of an egg, one-half tableapoonful Tinegar. Boil until brittle ; poor on 
battered plates. 

WALNUT MOLASSES BALLS 

One cup New Orleans molasses; cream of tartar size of a pea; 
three cups white sugar; one-half cup water. Boil mixture slowly until 
soft ball forms when tried in cold water. Add butter size of an egg 
and boil until brittle when tried in cold water. Add one-half teaspoon- 
fnl soda and remove from fire. Spread three cups black walnut meats 
thickly on well buttered tin and pour candy over same. When cool 
knead into balls. 

MOLASSES OAMBY 

Pat into a saucepan one cupful of brown sugar, two cupfols of 
New Orleans molasses and a tablespoonful each of butter and vinegar. 
Mix them well and boil until it will harden when dropped in water. 
Then stir in a teaspoonful baking soda, which will wliiten it, and turn 
it into a greased tin to cool; when it can be handled, pull it until white 
and firm. Draw it into sticks and cut into inch lengths. 

MOLASSES KISSES 

One level cnp sugar; two cups molasses; two level teaspoonfnla 
com starch ; one-eightitt teaspoonful soda. Mix sugar and com starch 
thoroughly and beat in molasses. When well blended heat slowly, 
stirring constantly. When mixture forms hard ball if dropped in cold 
water, remove from fire, add soda and pour into buttered pan. When 
eool, puU until straw colored, cut and wrap in waxed paper. 

OBEAMTAITY 

Two cups sugar; one cup water; two tablespoonfuls vinegar; one 
teaspoonful cream tartar. Cook until brittle; pour into buttered pan. 
TRien cool enough to handle ; pull until white. 

PEANUT OANDT 

Put into a saucepan three-fourths cup com syrup, three-fourths 
cup sugar, a large piece of butter, and one and one-half tablespoonfuls 
of vinegar. BoU until a little dropped into cold water becomes brittle. 
Then add one pound salted peanuts. Spread into buttered pan and cnt 
into squares or oblongs. 

BTUTTED DATES 

Take some fondant, small pieces of walnnta, almonds, bits of 
date, a few raisins, a small piece of citron ; mix well ; if not wet enough 
when molded add a few drops of water and lemon juice. Take tiie 
seeds from the dates and fill with this mixture. BoU in grannlated 
■agar. 

Diglizedby'GOOgle' 



OLD-FASHIONED TAFFY 

Pat into a saucepan two and one-half cnpfols of sngar and one- 
half cnpfol of water. Stir until it is dissolved. Then wash the sides 
of the pan and let it boil without touching a few moments, and add a 
tablespoonful butter and let boil until it will crack when tested in cold 
water. Add a teaspoonful vanilla and torn in onto a tin to eooL Mark 
it off into squares before it becomes cold. 

PUFFED BIOS CANDY Helen GoUina 

One cup ^anulated sugar; one-fourth cup water; one-fourth cup 
molasses; one teaspoonful butter; one drop oil of peppermint. BoU 
sugar, water, molasses and butter until it forms a hard ball when 
dropped into cold water. Remove from fire, add peppermint, stir and 
pour over one package of puffed rice, stirring antU rice is coated. 

PEANUT OANDY 

Fill a small square tin half an inch deep with shelled peanuts, leav- 
ing the skins on. Boil some sugar until done and pour it over the nuts, 
just covering &em. Cut into squares before it becomes cold. 

PEPPESBUNTS 

Two cups sugar ; one-half cup water ; one-half teaspoonful cream 
of tartar; seven or eight drops of oil of peppermint. Boil until a drop 
of Byrnp on tip of fork looks like a fine hair. Remove from fire, add 
cream of tartar and peppermint, and stir until creamy. Drop on 
wax6d paper. 

AFTER DINNEB MINTS 

Two level cups sugar; one-fourth teaspoonful cream of tartar; 
one-half cup boLUug water; three drops peppermint. Boil sugar, water 
and cream tartar nntU dissolved. Let boil without stirring until it 
forms soft ball when dropped in cold water. Set aside to cooL When 
lukewarm add peppermint and beat until creamy. Drop from spoon 
on was paper or marble slab. If preferred, use oheckerbeny or creme 
de mentlie. 

POP CORN BALLS 

Twelve quarts all white grains pop com, warm and pour over this 
in a large disbpan the following syrup while hot : Half cup molasses 
or com syrup; half cup sugar; three tablespoonfula water. Boil until 
it crisps in cold water. Stir with a spoon all the candy thoroughly 
through the com. Butter fingers, then press with hands into balls. 



,d by Google 



a b, Google 



a b, Google 



ADDENDA 



POUaHNUTS Mrs. Edw. Tilden 

One cnpfnl sugar; one capful sour milk; one-fourth teaspoonful 
soda; two eggs; flour enougli to make batter to roll and cut; pinch 
salt; two teaspoonfnls melted lard; tiro teaspoonfuls baking powder. 
Fry in hot lard. This will make about thirty-flve. 

OBANOE SOUFFLE Mrs. Wm. P. Conger 

One cupful sugar ; five eggs ; one cupful milk ; two tablespoon- 
fuls butter; two tablespoonfiils flour. Beat yolks and whites sep- 
arately; mix sugar and yolks together; cook flour, butter and milk 
together ; then stir all together with whites of eggs and juice of two 
oranges and bake slowly in oven. 

Orange sauce; Whites of three eggs; one cupful sugar; added 
slowly to the jnice of two oranges and a squeeze of lemon. When 
finished it mnat have the consistency of frosting. 

SOUK BULK BAXINa POWDER BISOUITS Mrs. E. Downs 

To a qnart of flour add three level teaspoonfuls baking powder; 
half a teaspoonful salt; one teaspoonful sugar; two tablespoonfuls 
shortening, rubbed into the above ingredients and enough sour milk 
to make a soft dough. No soda used. 

LOBSnB A LA MEWBUEO Mrs. Charles E. Frankenthal 

One pint of cream boiled fifteen minutes, stirring constantly; 
add paprika, salt and Coleman's mustard. Boil lobster early in the 
day and cut into good sized pieces. Add to cream. Dissolve two 
tablespoonfuls com starch in cold water, stir into mixture, then add 
yolks of two well beaten eggs. Just before serving add small quan- 
tity of sherry wine. Serve very hot on toast. 

OBANOE BUBBULADE Mrs. D. Homer Levy 

One large grapefruit; one large orange; one large lemon. Sliee 
fruit in very thin pieces ; take out seeds but do not peel ; take three 
times as much water as fruit; let this mixture stand for twelve hom«. 
Boil this mixture for ten minutes. Take as much granulated sugar 
as you have fruit ; after mixing fruit and sugar, let stand for twenty- 
four hours ; then boil nntil thick ; about one and one-half hours. 



Google 



CABBAGE EN 0A8SEB0LE Mis. K. T. CaiT 

Shave the cabbftge the same aa for salad and pack in casserole. 
To a quarter of a (granite) cnp of water add two tablespoonfnls of 
brown sugar (white sngar does not give the same flavor), season with 
pepper and salt, mix all together and pour over the cabbage. Cover 
the top of the cabbage with strips of bacon, cover with lid of casserole 
and bake for one hour in oven. Kemove cover and let the bacon 
brown before placing on the table. 

aSEEN PEPPEB SALAD Mrs. S. E. Banmgardner 

Cut peppers into rings about three-fourths inch wide; fill with 
cream cheese which has been rednced with cream to a thick paste and 
pecan nuts chopped fine. 

SALAD DBESSlNa Grace Pearson 

One heaping teaspoonful each of salt and dry mustard mixed 
with one tablespoonfol vinegar; add two eggs, one bottle of cream and 
a small piece of butter. Cook in double boiler — stirnng constantly. 
Do not cook too long or mixture will curdle. Thin with one tablft- 
spoonful olive oil. 

OBEEN TOMATO HINOE HEAT Daisy Y. Heist 

One full peck green tomatoes ; one-half peck cooking apples, cut 
fine; five pounds sugar; one pound each of raisins and currants; one 
cnpful suet, chopped fine; two nutmegs grated; one tablespoonfol 
each cinnamon, cloves and ginger; one pint boUed cider; one cupful 
vinegar. Wash and put tomatoes through meat grinder fine. Cover 
with water, let come to a boil, drain off all water, cover again, let 
boil and drain again. Put all ingredients together, cook until apples 
are tender, two or three hours. Can in jars. One pint enough for one 
pie. 

PIOELED PEACHES Mrs. D. Homer Levy 

Seven pounds of peaches; four pounds sugar; one pint vinegar; 
cinnamon and whole cloves (heads removed). Boil sugar, vinegar 
and spices (tied in a bag) until syrup ; drop in whole peaches and 
boil until tender; can and seal at once. 

LEMON FIE Mrs. Fannie Ti. Hurlbnt 

Jnice and rind of three lemons ; two cupfuls sugar ; one-half cup- 
ful butter; four eggs, beaten separately; one cupful milk; two tea- 
spoonfuls com starch dissolved in milk. Cream butter and sugar; 
add yolks, then mi l k, then lemon juice and whites of eggs, last. 



..CeKH^Ic 



OOCOAmJT PIE Annie Handscha 

One pint milk; two cupfula cocoanut; two tablespoonfnlB com 
starch ; one-half ctipfol sugar ; pinch salt ; three eggs. Boil milk, cocoa- 
nut, yolks of eggs, sugar and com starch in double boiler twenty min- 
utes. Add beaten white of egg. For the top of pie used powdered 
sugar and two beaten whites — sprinkle with cocoanut and brown in 
oven, 

HAlfNAH'S BBANBEBBIES 

One cup raisins, chopped fine; one cup sugar; one egg; juice of 
one lemon and grated rind. Make rich crust, roll thin and cut in six 
inch squares; put in a spoonful of the above mixture and fold corners 
to center. 

OABAMEL lOINa Mrs. Nancy L. Hilliard 

Two cupfuls brown sugar; two-thirds cupful cream; butter, size 
of a walnut. Mix well and boil until candied. If desired use cupful 
of nut meats chopped fine, add to icing when done. Takes one hour 
to cook in double boiler, 

INEXPENSIVE SPICE CAKE Mrs. Daisy Jones 

One cupful sugar; one-fourth cupful lard; one egg yolk; one cup- 
ful sour milk ; two cupfuls sifted Sour ; one tcaspoonfnl soda, dissolved ; 
one teaspoonful cinnamon; one-fourth teaspoonful each cloves and 
nutmeg; one cupful chopped raisins. Use white of egg for frosting. 

HEBINOUES Mrs. D. Homer Levy 

Six eggs; two cupfuls powdered sugar; one teaspoonful each of 
vanilla extract and vinegar. Beat e^ whites very stiff; slowly add 
powdered sugar, vanilla extract and vinegar ; then beat sJl until very 
stiff. Grease a flat pan and strew with Farina and drop batter by 
spoonfuls ; bake in a slow oven ; remove from pan when baked. 

ALMOND TOBTE Mrs. D. Homer Levy 

One pound shelled almonds; one pound granulated sugar; twelve 
eggs; one lemon. Grate almonds fine (leave skins on) ; stir yolks of 
eggs one-half hour with sugar; add grated almonds and stir another 
half hour; add the grated rind of lemon, and juice of one-half lemon; 
beat egg whites until stiff; stir in other mixture; place in a spring 
form, well greased ; bake slowly for one hour. 

SAUOE FOB PUDDma Mrs. E. T. Gary 

One small cup sugar; one egg; piece of butter size of walnut; one 
tablespoonful flour; two tablespoonfuls cold water. Beat all together 
and pour into half a pint of boiling milk or water. Flavor with wine 
or brandy. 



,d by Google 



abiGoogle 



WEIGHTS AND MEASURES 



Ten eggs equal one pound. 

One quart of flonr eqoalfi one pound. 

Two cnpfols of bntter equal one pound. 

One generous pint of liquid equals one pound. 

Two capfnls of granulated sugar equal one poond. 

Two heaping capfnls of powdered sogar equal one pound. 

One pint flnel7 chopped meat, packed solidly, equals one pound. 

Four saltspoonfols equal one teaspoonfuL 

Three teaspoonfnls equal one tablespooofol. 

Sixteen tablespoonfola equal on« snpfnl. 

Four tablespoonfuls salt equal one ounce. 

One and one-half tablespoonfuls granulated sugar equal one ounce. 

Two tablespoonfuls of flour equal one ounce. 

A piece of butter the size of an egg equals about one and one-half 
ounces. 

One pint of loaf sugar equals ten ounces. 

One pint of brown sugar equals twelve ounces. 

One pint of grantilated sugar equals sixteen ounces. 

One pint of wheat flour equals nine ounces. 

One pint of com meal equals eleven ounces. 

Use two teaspoonfnls of soda to one pint of sour milk. 

Use one teaspoonfnl of aoda to one cupful of molasses. 

One-half teaspoonfnl cream of tartar with one teaspoonful baldng 
soda equals two teaspoonfnls baking powder. 



,d by Google 



TIME REQUIRED 

For Oooldng tiie Following Meats and V^^etablea. 

Beef, sirloiu, rare, per pound, eight to ten minuteB. 
Beef, sirloin, well done, per pound, twelve to fifteen minutes. 
Chickens, three or foor pounds weight, one to one and one-half 
hoars. 

Dock, tame, from forty to sixty minntes. 

Lamb, well done, per pound, fifteen minutes. 

Pork, well done, per pound, thirty minutes. 

Turkey, ten pounds, three hours. 

Veal, well done, per pound, twenty minutes. 

Potatoes, boiled, thirty minutes. 

Potatoes, baked, forty-five minutes. 

Sweet potatoes, boiled, forty-five minutes. 

Sweet potatoes, baked, one hour. 

Squash, boiled, twenty-five minutes. 

Squash, baked, forty-five minutes. 

Green peas, boiled, twenty to forty minutea 

String beans, one to two hours. 

Green com, from twenty to thirty minutes. 

.Asparagus, fifteen to thirty minutes. 

Spinach, one to two hours. 

Tomatoes, one hour. 

Cabbage, forty-five minutes to two hours. 

Cauliflower, one to two hours. 

Dandelions, two to three hours. 

Beet greens, one hour. 

Onions, one to two hours. 

Beets, one to five hours. 

Turnips, forty-five minutes to one hour. 

Parsnips, from one-half to one hour. 

Di3tizBdbyGOO<^le 



HOUSEHOLD HINTS 

Wlien peeling omons, if you will hold tlie onions under the run- 
ning cold water, there will be no discomfort experienced. 

Pat ft thimble over the end of rods and you can easily nut it 
through your curtains, or an old glove finger mil answer the purpose 
if thimble is too large. 

To mark a hem in linen, remove thread from the machine and 
mn the goods through the hemmer as though stitching; you will find 
a perfect hem turned down. 

For removing odor of onions &om hands, use celery or powdered 
celery seed. 

A handful of salt rubbed around sink will help remove all grease 
and keep it sweet and clean. 

A tiny pinch of soda will sweeten cream slightly soared. 

To remove bread or cake from pans, apply wet cloth to bottom of 
pan. 

Tack ft piece of asbestos on end of ironing board for iron stand. 

Bum ft piece of camphor gam to rid house of mosqnitoes. 

To break glass evenly, tie a string around the glass, saturated with 
kerosene, t^en fill with cold water as high as the string; set fire to 
the string, and glass will snap at point of string. 

If a silver spoon is placed in a jelly glass the boiling jelly can be 
poured in without the least danger of breaking the glass. 

To cream butter and sugar easily when butter is hard, warm the 
sugar slightly. 

For angel, sunshine and all sponge cakes, add the cream of tartar 
to the e^s when half beaten, and if soda is called for, add it to the 
flour. 

lame water and linseed oil is an excellent application for bums. 

To caramelize sugar : Put in a smooth grsnite saucepan or omelet 
pan, place over hot part of stove and stir constantly until melted and 
of the color of maple syrup. Care most be taken to prevent sugar 
from adhering to sides of pan or spoon. 

To renovate food chopper and sharpen its knives, grind a piece 
of sand soap through it. 

Before using new tinware, if you will rub it well with lard and 
heat it thoroughly in oven, it will not rust. 

To remove paint from window pains, rub with baking soda. 

To remove match scratches from painted woodwork, mb with 
slice of lemon, then with whiting, and wash with soap and water. 

In making pancakes, two tablespoons of snow stirred in quickly 
is equal to one egg. 

Two apples placed in your cake box will keep the cake moist. 

If in cooking you have aecidentally put too much salt in oi^thing, 
a small amount of brown sugar will counteract it. 



.byCoogle 



ab,Goo<^le 



a b, Google 



a b, Google 



a b, Google 



a b, Google 




Iff!! 

Wl',!,il'J ..Google 



a b, Google 







m: 



,xOT;^tne;|5^ 



'4':TS^^~^M*S!fr 



iz^i:--- 



i.L^. 4».i- 






:xh:.x.t,-:,.-". 





p- 








Book . O 2. 



STEVENSON MEMORIAL 

COOK BOOK 




PUBLISHED BY 
Sarah Hackett Stevenson Memorial Lodging House Association 

ENDORSED BY THE CHICAGO ASSOCIATION COMMERCE 
SUBSCRIPTIONS INVESTIGATING COMMITTEE 

2412 Prairie Avenue 
CHICAGO 



INDEX 



^^C^*^ 

^V 



APPETIZERS 7 

BEVERAGES 159 

BREAD 107 

CAKES ; 117 

CANDIES 181 

CHEESE DISHES 177 

COOKIES 131 

DESSERTS 83 

EGG DISHES 171 

FILLINGS AND ICINGS 127 

FISH 23 

HOUSEHOLD HINTS 193 

MEATS AND FOWL .^^ 35 

PICKLES .H 141 

PIES 77 

PRESERVES 149 

FROZEN DISHES 99 

PUDDINGS 89 

SALADS 67 

SANDWICHES 165 

SAUCES 51 

SHELL FISH 29 

SOUPS 15 

TIME REQUIRED 192 

VEGETABLES 55 

WEIGHTS AND MEASURES 191 



Copyright, 1919 

by 

Sarah Hackett Stevenson Memorial Lodging House Association 



i3^U 



DEDICATED 

— TO— 

Sarah Hackett Stevenson 
Whose life was devol^ to Service for Humanity. 



Compiled by 

Mrs. William D. Hurlbut 

Assisted by 

THE EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE 

Mrs. Herbert D. Sheldon 
Mrs. Carl S. Junge 

Mrs. a. Donald Campbell 
Mrs. Sarah A. Graham 
Mrs. a. C. Allen 

Mrs. George K. Spoor 
Mrs. Wm. S. Tasker 

Mrs. Wm. Irving Clock 

Mrs. Edward D. Gotchy 



TRUSTEES 

Hon. Wm. B. McKinley, M. C. 

Hon. Henry Horner 

Judge of Probate Court (Ex-offlcio) 

Mrs. W. H. Winslow 

President Chicago Woman's Club (Ex-oflacio) 

Mrs. George Watkins 

Mrs. George S. Blakeslee 

Mrs. Thomas D. McMicken 

Mrs. Edward L. Phelps 

Mrs. Hermann Vander Ploeg 

Mrs. a. C. Allen 

Mrs. Herbert D. Sheldon 



fo:reword 



During the year 1893 on the streets of Chicago were hundreds of 
women who had been thrown out of employment. The genuine help- 
lessness and hopelessness of these women appealed strongly to the gen- 
erous heart of a wonderful woman, Dr. Sarah Hackett Stevenson, one 
time president of the Chicago Woman's Club. She went before this club 
and stated that there was no place in this great city where a woman with- 
out funds could find shelter — a woman who would work if given an 
opportunity. She demanded in the name of humanity that this, her 
club, do something at once to relieve the situation. 

Her plea had its effect, and money was subscribed for beginning 
work. Other clubs responded to the caU for help and contributed both 
furnishings and funds. And what was called the Woman's Model Lodg- 
ing House was opened to the public. 

No questions were asked of those who came for shelter — the past 
was not the thing to be dealt with — only the present and future. A 
charge of 15 cents a night was made, and if they were without money 
work was given them and they were paid for it — they, in turn, paying 
for their lodging. It was the principle of the organization that the 
actual handling of this money helped to preserve self-respect and that 
they might not feel themselves objects of charity. This principle has 
held through the years and no woman or child is turned from the door 
as long as there is a place to rest. 

Hon. William B. McEialey of Champaign, 111., gave as a memorial 
to Dr. Stevenson the present home at 2412 Prairie avenue, which will 
accommodate sixty women and about fifty children. The organization 
has become one of the strongest in the city — a delegated body of eighty- 
two members who represent women's organizations of Cook County. For 
the last few years the work has grown and broadened, until almost every 
trouble and sorrow that can come to women and children is brought to 
this door. 

The woman who is on the downward path of years, when it is so 
hard to find employment, her little money gone, often weakened both 
mentally and physically from lack of nourishment and worry — she might 
be any one's mother — if not able to work for her lodging, is supplied 



Tore-word 

iiiiiiuiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiinintiiriijiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiniiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiii iiiijiiiiiiiiiiiiiiniiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiniiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiimiimiiiiiimiiiimmiiiiu 

from the loan fund. Often she can return the small amount and 
she does not feel that she has received charity, but that the hand of a 
friend has grasped hers, and her faith in humanity is restored. The 
young girl who is alone and without money is safe from the cheap 
rooming houses of the city. The mother with her little family, who 
has been left, by desertion or death, without the father's protection 
comes to this home and remains until she can gather up the thread 
of existence once more. Often she is saved from placing her chil- 
dren in institutions or giving them for adoption. An average of 105 
women and children are cared for in the Lodging House each day. 

As time brought the need of better facilities for the care of the chil- 
dren, the generous friend of the Institution, Wm. B. McKinley, gave the 
building at 2408 Prairie avenue for Nursery purposes. Here the chil- 
dren are cared for during the day, while the mother is seeking employ- 
ment, or otherwise adjusting her affairs. 

A limited number of neighborhood children are also cared for. A 
trained nurse and kindergartner are employed. Twenty-four hour feed- 
ings for bottle babies are furnished so that the little ones diet may not be 
disturbed. In this department 60 children are given daily care. The 
mother has charge of her family at night. Every effort is made by 
this organization to keep the mother and her children together. We 
believe that separation should be only after every other method has failed. 

A visit to the Stevenson Memorial will interest you and you are most 

welcome at all times. 

Mrs. Herbert D. Sheldon, 

President. 



APPETIZERS 



'Nor love tJiy life, nor Jiate, hut wliile thou livest, live well." 



CHEESE TOAST CANAPE Mrs. C. A. Carscadin 

Toast small squares or rounds of bread on one side ; on the other 
side grate cheese and set in oven until cheese is melted ; add paprika. 

CHEESE CANAPES Mrs. E. S. Smith 

Cut bread in quarter-inch slices. Spread lightly with French 
mustard. Sprinkle with grated cheese and finely chopped olives. 
Brown slightly in oven. 

SARDINE AND EGG CANAPE Mrs. C. A. Carscadin 

Toast small pieces of bread; cover with a paste made of sardines 
and a little lemon juice, and top with the yolks of hard boiled egg put 
through the ricer. 

SAEDINE CANAPE Mrs. J. A. Kaerwer 

Two cans small sardines ; one teaspoonful catsup : one teaspoonful 
lemon juice ; a dash of tabasco sauce. Place slice of bread on leaf of 
lettuce then lay two small sardines across with chopped eggs, and last 
add catsup, lemon juice and tabasco sauce. 

SARDINE CANAPE Mrs. J. A. Kaerwer 

Two cans of sardines boned; two tablespoonfuls chopped pickled 
beets ; mix thoroughly and spread on slices of bread ; sprinkle chopped 
eggs over same and serve. 

SARDINE CANAPE Mrs. A. D. Campbell 

Mash sardines with silver fork, after removing tails and loose 
skin. Cover with juice of one-half lemon. Spread on thin slices of 
bread, cut either round or oblong. Cover with grated cheese and 
toast until cheese melts. Serve hot. 

SALMON AND TOMATO CANAPE Mrs. C. A. Carscadin 

On a small piece of toast put a paste of salmon, and on this a 
slice of ripe tomato with mayonnaise. 



Appetizers 

niiniiiiiiiiiniiiiiiitiii tMriiiiiiiiiiiriiiiriiiiiiiitminiiuiiiiirniiitiiiiniiiiiiiiiiiiiiniiiiiiiiiiiiiii iniiiiniiiiii nii inniiiii iiiiiniii inniitiiiiiiiiii 

LOBSTER CANAPE Mrs. Louis Geyler 

Chop one-half cup of lobster meat fine and mix thoroughly with 
the white of two hard boiled eggs which has been pressed through a 
ricer. Season with salt, pepper, one teaspoonful mustard and moisten 
with thick mayonnaise. Saute circular pieces of bread until brown, 
then spread with the mixture. Sprinkle over the top a thin layer of 
hard boiled yolks and lobster pressed through the ricer. 

CANAPES Mrs. Louis Geyler 

Dip edges of toast in egg, then in finely minced parsley or chervil ; 
spread with anchovy butter and garnish with cold boiled eggs, olives 
and capers; or 

On the same foundation use tartar sauce, boned anchovies curled 
around edge and garnish with a stuffed olive or gherkin fan ; a gherkin 
fan is made by cutting it in thin slices, not quite through, and putting 
the ends together ; or 

Cover toast with tomato slices, curl anchovy in center and season 
with lemon, onion juice and paprika ; or 

Garnish with powdered egg yolk and diced whites ; or 

Spread toast with anchovy butter, cover with mayonnaise mixed 
with chili sauce. 

MUSHROOM CANAPE (Hot) Miss Agnes Sieber 

Cook fresh mushrooms in butter, place on rounds of toast, spread 
with chervil or parsley butter; pipe a mound of beaten egg white, 
seasoned with salt and pepper, on each mushroom and place in hot oven 
until maringue is brown. 

PRUNE AND BACON CANAPE (Hot) Miss Agnes Sieber 

Remove stones from large prunes and olives; stuff olives with 
capers and bits of anchovy; put them in the prunes, wrap each prune 
with bacon and tie with a thread. Place in hot oven until bacon is 
crisp, remove thread and place on disks of toast spread with Parmesan 
butter. 

TONGUE CANAPE Mrs. F. A. Sieber 

Spread toast with mustard cream, garnish with tiny strips of 
tongue, put a lozenge of white meat of chicken in center, on this put 
a slice of truffle, both marinated in PVench dressing. 

CANAPE A LA VANDERBILT Mrs. Paul Klein-exel. 

Slice of tomatoes on lettuce ; combination of crabmeat, celery and 
pearl onions. Serve with oil mayonnaise. 

TUNNYPISH CANAPE Mrs. F. A. Sieber 

Spread toast with horseradish butter, lay on strips of tunnyfish 
and garnish with slices of gherkin. 

8 



Appetizers 

iiiiiiimiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiimimiiiiiMiiiiiiMiniiiiiiiiiiiimiiiiiiiiiiimiminiiimiimiiiiiinniiiMMiiniiiiiuiiiiiiiiiiiimmiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiim iiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiii 

TOMATO CANAPE Elizabeth Jennings 

Lightly toast circles of bread, cut out with biscuit cutter, one- 
half inch thick. Cover each circle with a slice of tomato. Sprinkle 
with salt and pepper. Cover tomato with layer of caviar, garnishing 
edge with finely cut white of hard boiled egg. Instead of caviar, the 
tiny white onions (bottled) or yolk of egg finely chopped may be sub- 
stituted. Serve on plate with fancy paper doily. 

ANCHOVY PASTE CANAPE Mrs. Paul Klein-exel. 

Slice of toast, cut shape of tomato; spread with anchovy paste; 
topped with tomato slice, and yellow American cheese, browned and 
melted in oven. Toast only one side of bread. 

SARDINOLA CANAPE Mrs. Frederick T. Hoyt 

Cut rounds of fresh bread and toast lightly in oven. Cover with 
Sardinola paste, then sprinkle grated cheese over top, then brown 
slightly and serve while hot. 

CHICKEN, HAM OR TONGUE CANAPES Mrs. Louis Geyler 

Spread toast with mustard butter, cover with minced chicken and 

garnish with olives, pickles, capers and pearl onions; or 

Border edge of toast with minced tongue or ham, fill center with 

chicken mixed with mayonnaise and garnish with minced truffles. 

ANCHOVIES AND TOMATOES 

Cover anchovies with lemon juice and paprika ; in an hour or two 
place them on tomato slices sprinkled with pulverized egg yolk and 
garnish with the egg white cut in strips. 

ARTICHOKE FONDS OR CELERY CUPS 

Parboil six artichokes, or celery hearts cut in cups, in salted 
acidulated water, cool and marinate in French dressing ; fill cups with 
diced or shredded mixed vegetables and top with mayonnaise; or 

Coat the cups with aspic and fill with caviar. 

Canned artichokes which are already cooked may be used. 

CUCUMBER CROWNS 

Cut peeled cucumbers into inch lengths, scoop out centers, leaving 
a little at the bottom, fill with lobster or shrimp cream and garnish 
edge with anchovies, mixed olives, capers or pimentoes ; or 

Fill with caviar mixed with lemon juice and garnish with pearl 
onions and minced cress. 

SHRIMPS AND EGGS 

Cut hard boiled eggs in halves, remove yolks and fill with shredded 
shrimps mixed with mayonnaise; garnish with powdered yolks and 
serve on lettuce leaves. 

8 



Appetizers 

iiMHininiiriniuiiiMniiriiriiiiniiinirinininniiininiiiiiiiinniiniiriiniMiiiininiiiiiiinmiiiiniiiiiiiiiiniiiiiMiiiiiiiniiiiiiiminimiimimminiiiititimiiiiim^^^^ 

EASTER APPETIZER Mrs. A. J. Atwater 

Hard boil as many eggs as you have services; peel and cut the 
whites to represent baskets, carefully scoop out the yolks and fill the 
baskets with caviar. Toast rounds of bread, cover with the yolks 
which have been put through ricer, stand a basket in the center of 
each and serve with a thin slice of lemon. 

SWEETBREAD CANAPE Mrs. Louis Geyler 

Spread brown bread toast with creamed butter mixed with pate 
de foie gras; cover with cooked sweetbreads mixed with cucumber, 
pepper, gras and mayonnaise. Garnish with sweet red peppers. 

CANAPE Mrs. W. D. Hurlbut 

Spread rounds of toast with liver sausage ; garnish with yolks of 
hard boiled egg put through ricer; in the center place a spoonful of 
minced stuffed olives. 

SARDINE CANAPE Mrs. J. G. Sherer 

Spread rounds of toast with mayonnaise; cover with a slice of 
tomato; mince sardines with yolk of a hard boiled egg and finely 
chopped stuffed olives ; cover the tomato with this mixture and place 
a spoonful of mayonnaise on top. 

CRAB FLAKE CANAPE Mrs. J. G. Sherer 

Rounds of bread toasted on one side; spread untoasted side with 
a mixture of butter and Parmesan cheese. To a small quantity of 
cream sauce, add one cup crab flakes and heat. Put mounds of crab 
flakes on the buttered toast and put under blaze long enough to brown 
slightly. 

SAUSAGE AND OLIVE CANAPE Mrs. P. D. Swigart 

Toast rounds of bread on one side ; spread the untoasted side with 
mayonnaise, and on this lay a slice of summer sausage as thin as it can 
be cut ; top with minced olive and pimento in mayonnaise. 

OLIVE AND NUT CANAPE ^ Mrs. H. Clay Calhoun 

To one cup minced stuffed olives add one-half cup minced nut 
meats and one-half cup oil mayonnaise ; mix well and spread on 
toasted bread cut in any shape you want. Garnish with a little mound 
of mayonnaise sprinkled with paprika. 

FRUIT COCKTAIL Mrs. W. D. Hurlbut 

Shred some pineapple; add grape fruit pulp and seeded white 
grapes; cover with hot sugar and water syrup and let stand until 
cold ; flavor with sherry and serve in cocktail glasses that have been 
chilled by filling with ice an hour before time to serve. 

10 



Appetizers 

iiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiliiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiuiiiiliiiiilillllllllllilliiiiiililiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiliil iniiiii iiiir iiiiiiiiiiiiiii I 

FRUIT COCKTAIL Mrs. A. Donald Campbell 

Scoop out rounds of watermelon and cantaloupe, thoroughly- 
chilled; put in glasses, sprinkle with pulverized sugar and pour over 
each two tablespoonfuls ice cold ginger ale. Garnish with cherry. 

STRAWBERRY COCKTAIL Mrs. H. W. Keil 

Select large ripe berries, and if very sandy, wash them. Remove 
hulls and cut them in halves lengthwise; fill glasses with berries and 
pour over them a dressing made by mixing one cup of water and two 
tablespoonfuls sugar, let boil three minutes; cool and add one-half 
cup claret; let this dressing be ice cold when poured over the berries. 
Serve. 

CHERRY COCKTAIL s Mrs. J. G. Sherer 

Select the big California cherries; take out the stones and insert 
in their places walnut, almond or hazel nut meats. Half fill the glasses 
with a cold syrup made of fruit juice and a little sugar. 

ORANGE COCKTAIL Mrs. H. F. Vehmeyer 

Remove the skin from the orange sections, place in a chilled cock- 
tail glass and pour over a syrup made of sweetened orange juice and 
a little sherry. Decorate with sugar coated mint sprays. 

TOMATO COCKTAIL Mrs. Magda West 

Select uniform sized tomatoes ; cut in halves lengthwise. In each 
glass place a small, crisp leaf of head lettuce ; put one-half of a tomato 
on each and half fill the glass with cocktail sauce. 

SHRIMP COCKTAIL Mrs. A. M. Cameron 

Boil green shrimp until tender, about twenty-five minutes- Peel 
and break in halves, if large ; dice celery and olives with the shrimp, 
mix well and cover with a cocktail sauce. 

SARDINE COCKTAIL Mrs. W. D. Hurlbut 

Drain sardines from oil in box ; remove skin, tail and bones ; break 
into small pieces ; mince celery and mix with it ; put in cocktail glass 
and cover with sauce made of one-half cup catsup, juice of one lemon ; 
tablespoonful horseradish and a little salt. 

CRABMEAT COCKTAIL Mrs. C. A. Carscadin 

Two tablespoonfuls crabmeat to each person. To one cup tomato 
catsup add juice of one lemon, two tablespoonfuls grated horseradish 
thinned with vinegar; a few drops of tabasco sauce and just before 
serving, a tablespoonful cracked ice. ' 

11 



Appetizers 

iiinnniiMiiiiMiiniiiiinrninininrMniniiiininriiiiiiiiiniiiinninniiiMiMiiiniiriniiMniiMniiiiiniiiiiiitiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiitiiiiiiiiiiiiiiriiiiiiiiiiiiniiiiiniiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiinii 

CRAB FLAKE COCKTAIL Mrs. J. G. Sherer 

To one cup of Japanese crab flakes mince one stalk of celery, one 
teaspoonful capers and mix well. Fill green pepper cases with the mix- 
ture and cover with two tablespoonfuls cocktail sauce. 

CLAM COCKTAIL SAUCE 

Three tablespoonfuls of tomato, or mushroom catsup ; three table- 
spoonfuls lemon juice; one tablespoonful horseradish; a few drops 
tabasco ; salt and paprika. Stir well and allow about two tablespoon- 
fuls of the sauce for each cocktail. 

COCKTAIL SAUCE 

Mix well four tablespoonfuls tomato catsup ; one of vinegar ; two 
of lemon juice ; one of grated horseradish ; one of "Worcestershire sauce ; 
one teaspoonful salt and a few drops of tabasco. Have very cold 
when poured over cocktails. 

COCKTAIL SAUCE Mrs. W. L. Gregson 

One tablespoonful freshly grated horseradish; one tablespoonful 
vinegar; half a teaspoonful tabasco sauce; two tablespoonfuls lemon 
juice ; one tablespoonful chili sauce ; half a teaspoonful Worcestershire 
sauce. Mix and let stand on ice until ready to serve. 

COCKTAIL SAUCE 

Two tablespoonfuls each tomato catsup and sherry wine; one 
tablespoonful lemon juice ; a few drops tabasco sauce ; half a teaspoon- 
ful minced chives and a little salt. Have thoroughly chilled before 
pouring over cocktail. 

COCKTAIL SAUCE 

Rub a bowl with a clove of garlic; two tablespoonfuls tomato 
catsup; one tablespoonful grated horseradish; one tablespoonful 
mushroom catsup ; one teaspoonful lemon juice ; one teaspoonful finely 
chopped chives ; a few drops of tabasco sauce, salt and pepper. 



IS 



Appetizers 

iiimniiiililiiiliiliiiiiiiiniiiiiniiiiiiiiiiiiiiimiiiiiiiimiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiMiiiiJiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiniiiiiiiiiiiiniiiiiiiiiini iiininiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiimniiiiiiiiiiiiiiiimiiiiiiiiiiiiii 



18 



Appetizers 

iiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiillliiliiliiiintiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiniiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiini iiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiilliiilitiiiiiiniiiiiiiiiiiiiiii 



14 



SOUPS 



All Jiuman history attests: 

That happiness for man — the hungry sinner — 
Since Eve ate apples — much depends on dinner. 

— ^Byron. 



CREAM OP ASPARAGUS Mrs. K. T. Gary 

Cook one bunch of asparagus twenty minutes, drain and reserve 
tops ; add two cups of stock and one slice of onion minced ; boil thirty 
minutes. Rub through sieve and thicken with two tablespoonfuls but- 
ter and two tablespoonfuls of flour rubbed together. Add salt, pepper, 
two cups milk and the tips. 

CREAM OF BEAN SOUP Mrs. E. D. Kenfield 

Put one quart of milk to heat. While it is heating, put the cooked 
beans through colander. Blend one tablespoonful butter with one of 
flour; pour over this the hot milk. Season with salt and pepper, stir 
until smooth, and then add the beans. Pea or asparagus soup can be 
made in the same way. 

CREAM OF CABBAGE 

Cut up one small head of cabbage and boil until quite tender. 
Put it through a colander, add one quart of milk, salt and pepper and 
thicken with two tablespoonfuls each of butter and flour rubbed 
together. 

CREAM OF CELERY Mrs. W. D. Hurlbut 

Cut four heads celery into small pieces and boil it in three pints 
of water with one-fourth pound of lean ham minced; simmer gently 
for an hour. Strain through a sieve and return to the pan adding one 
quart of milk, salt and pepper; thicken with two tablespoonfuls of 
butter and two tablespoonfuls of flour rubbed to a paste. Serve with 
whipped cream on top. 

CREAM OF CORN Mrs. A. Donald Campbell 

Put one can of com on to simmer with one pint of water and one 
small onion sliced; cook thirty minutes. Strain, return to the pan, 
adding one quart of milk, salt and pepper and thicken with two table- 
spoonfuls of flour and butter. Serve hot with a §poonful of whipped 
oream on top. 

15 



Soups 

IMIIIIIIIIIIIIHIIIIIIIIinllllllllHIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIiniHIIIIIHIMIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIilllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllUIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIII^ 

CREAM OF LIMA BEANS Mrs. A. J. Atwater 

If dried beans are used, soak them over night; in the morning 
drain and add three pints of cold water; cook until soft and run 
through a sieve. Slice two onions and a carrot and cook in two table- 
spoonfuls of butter; remove vegetables, add two tablespoonfuls flour, 
salt and pepper, stirring until very smooth; add to this one cup of 
milk or cream and put into the strained soup; reheat and add two 
tablespoonfuls more of butter in small pieces. 

CREAM OF MUSHROOM SOUP Mrs. J. H. Harris 

One-half pound of mushrooms, cleaned and chopped fine, add to 
four cups of chicken broth, cook twenty minutes; thicken with two 
tablespoonfuls butter and two of flour blended with one cup of boiling 
water. "When the boiling point is reached add one cup of cream and 
the well beaten yolks of two eggs. 

MUSHROOM SOUP Mrs. Harry Freeman 

One-half pound mushrooms, washed and peeled and chopped very 
fine ; cover with one pint of water and boil one-half hour slowly ; one 
quart milk scald in double boiler; season with one tablespoonful but- 
ter, salt and pepper; add mushrooms and let come to a boil. Just 
before serving, add finely chopped parsley. Thicken milk with one 
tablespoonful flour mixed with cold water and put through a 
strainer. 

CREAM OF RICE SOUP Mrs. W. I. Clock 

One cup rice; one large onion; one quart milk; one tablespoonful 
butter. Boil rice in salted water until tender, press through sieve, and 
add milk slowly, stirring constantly until all is well mixed, lastly add 
butter and season to taste. 

CREAM OF SPINACH 

Wash and cook enough spinach to make a pint; chop it fine and 
put in a pan with two tablespoonfuls of butter, one teaspoonful salt 
and a few gratings of nutmeg ; cook and stir it about ten minutes ; add 
three pints of soup stock, let it boil up and put it through a strainer. 
Set it on the fire again and when at the boiling point remove and add 
one tablespoonful of butter and one teaspoonful of sugar. Thicken 
with flour mixed with milk or water. 

CREAM OF TOMATO 

Cook one quart of tomatoes with one slice onion, two teaspoonfuls 
sugar and one-fourth teaspoonful soda about fifteen minutes; rub 
through a sieve and set to one side. Scald one quart of milk and 
thicken with flour diluted with cold water; be careful that the mix- 
ture is free from lumps; cook from fifteen to twenty minutes; when 
ready to serve combine the mixtures, add bits of butter, salt and pepper 
and a spoonful of whipped cream on top. 

16 



Soups 

IIIUItriMIIIIIIIIIIMIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIHIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIMIIIIHIIIIIIIIIIIUIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIinilintllllllllllllllllllMIHIIilll^ 

CHOWDER Mrs. C. A. Carscadin 

One can of corn; one cupful of diced potatoes; one and one-half 
inch cube of fat salt pork ; one tablespoonful onion juice ; four cupfuls 
of scalded milk; two tablespoonfuls of butter; a teaspoonful of salt 
and a teaspoonful of pepper. Cut pork into small bits and fry until 
nicely browned; add onion juice and milk and potatoes, which have 
been boiled in salted water until tender; corn, salt and pepper. Let 
all just come to the boiling point. Put a few rolled crackers in each 
plate and pour in chowder. Tomatoes may be added if liked. 

CLAM SOUP 

Chop fine 25 clams. Put over the fire the liquor that was drained 
from them and a cup of water; add the chopped clams and boil half 
an hour; season to taste with salt, pepper and butter; boil up again 
and add one quart of milk, boiling hot, and two crackers which have 
been rolled fine. Serve. 

MOCK CHICKEN SOUP L. E. Kennedy 

Two tablespoonfuls flour; one and one-half pints beef stock; two 
tablespoonfuls cream ; one egg ; butter size of an egg. Put butter and 
flour in a saucepan, stir until smooth; add stock little by little; just 
before taking from the fire add the cream and egg well beaten to- 
gether. Salt and pepper to taste. 

COURT BOUILLON Mrs. Robert Woods 

Take six nice slices of red fish, roll them in flour, season with salt 
and fry in hot lard, but not entirely done, simply brown on both sides, 
and set aside. For the sauce, fry in hot lard a large onion chopped 
fine and a spoonful of flour. When brown, stir in a wineglass of 
claret, large spoonfuls of garlic and parsley chopped fine, three bay 
leaves, a spray of thyme, a piece of strong red pepper and salt to 
taste. Lastly, add your fried fish and cook slowly for an hour. Serve 
with toast bread. 

TOMATO BOUILLON Clara L. Scott 

Four cups tomato ; four stalks celery ; one small onion ; four cups 
water; sugar, salt and pepper to taste; boil until celery is well done. 
Strain and serve in cups with whipped cream. 

VEGETABLE BOUILLON Mrs. W. L. Gregson 

Two tablespoonfuls of sugar; one carrot; one onion; one pint 
tomatoes; three stalks celery (or salt spoon of celery seed) ; two whole 
cloves; one salt spoon pepper; one bay leaf; blade of mace; one tea- 
spoonful salt; two quarts cold water; white of one egg; small piece 
of butter. Burn sugar in kettle, add onion and brown ; add carrot and 
celery, and then cold water and other ingredients except butter and 
egg. Mix thoroughly, boil, strain through two thicknesses of cheese- 
cloth, add butter and serve. 

17 



Sonps 

III I nil iiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiit iiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiininiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiMiiniiiiiiiiiiii i iiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiitiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiniiiiiiiiiiiiiitiin 

JELLIED TOMATO BOUILLON Mrs. P. J. Lanten 

Put one quart of tomatoes in pan and simmer twenty minutes; 
add one-third package of gelatine and stir until dissolved. Strain 
through a fine sieve, season with salt, pepper and put in ice box to 
harden. Cut in cubes in bouillon cups and serve with thin slices of 
lemon. 

CREOLE GUMBO Mrs. Robert Woods 

Clean a nice young chicken, cut in pieces and fry in hot lard. 
Add a large sliced onion, a spoonful of flour, two dozen boiled shrimps, 
two dozen oysters and a few pieces of ham. Fry all together and 
when brown add a quart and a half of water, and let boil for an 
hour. Season with chopped parsley, salt and strong pepper. Just 
before removing and while boiling, stir in quickly a teaspoonful of the 
powdered file. Take away and pour in tureen. Serve hot with rice 
cooked dry. 

CREOLE GUMBO No. 2 Mrs. Robert Woods 

Cut an old fat chicken into small pieces, chop small four onions, 
place the onions in five ounces of lard and let cook until well browned. 
Then put in four spoonfuls of flour and let cook five minutes. Put in 
half gallon good rich stock, add a can of tomatoes, can of okra, season 
with salt, pepper and cayenne. Tie a small quantity of thyme, sweet 
bay leaves and parsley in a bit of cloth. Then add twenty-four large 
shrimps, half dozen hard shell crabs and twenty-four oysters. Let the 
whole cook for two hours on slow fire. Serve with rice boiled dry for 
each person. 

BROWN SOUP Mrs. Joseph T. Bowen 

After boiling a soup bone thoroughly, add a can of tomatoes; 
strain and put it on the stove again; brown flour enough to thicken 
it to the consistence of cream; add a lemon or two (sliced very thin 
and boiled a few minutes in water) ; one teaspoonful each of ground 
cloves ; cinnamon and allspice. Just before you wish to serve add the 
hard boiled yolk of an egg for each person; chop the whites and put 
in the tureen. 

SPLIT PEA SOUP Mrs. W. D. Hurlbut 

Wash well a pint of split peas and cover with cold water, adding 
one-third teaspoonful of soda; let them remain in this over night to 
swell. In the morning put them in a kettle with a close fitting top; 
pour over them three quarts of cold water, adding half a pound of 
lean ham or bacon cut into slices or pieces; also a teaspoonful salt, 
a little pepper and a stalk of celery cut fine. When the soup begins 
to boil, skim the froth from the surface. Cook slowly from three to 
four hours, stirring occasionally until the peas are all dissolved. 
Strain through a colander and leave out meat. It should be quite 
thick. If not rich enough, add a small piece of butter. Serve with 
small squares of toasted bread cut up and added. 

18 



Soups 

nniiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiniiniiniiiiiimiiimiiiiiiiiiiimimiinininmimimiiiiiiiiiimnimiiiiiriiiiiiniuiiiriiiMiriiitiiiniininniii^ 

POTATO SOUP Anna Moss 

Peel and slice five medium sized potatoes, cook in boiling salted 
water; when soft put through a strainer. Scald one quart of milk 
with one small onion sliced, remove onion and add milk slowly to 
potatoes. Melt three tablespoonfuls butter, add two tablespoonfuls 
of flour, one teaspoonful salt, one-quarter spoonful celery salt and 
dash of white pepper and stir until thoroughly mixed, add to the boil- 
ing soup; cook one minute, strain and serve; sprinkle with chopped 
parsley. 

MEAT JELLY L. E. Kennedy 

Two pounds of lean beef; one-half gallon cold water; six whole 
cloves; one-half box gelatin soaked in one-half cupful of water for 
fifteen minutes; six black pepper corns; one tablespoonful salt; two 
tablespoonfuls sherry; the juice of one lemon. Cut the beef into the 
water, add peppercorns, cloves and salt and let simmer slowly four 
hours. Add the gelatin and strain; to this add lemon juice and pour 
into a mold. When cold it will slice nicely. 

RICE AND TOMATO SOUP 

Boil to a pulp, in a quart of water, twelve ripe tomatoes which 
have been peeled and cut up. Strain, place on stove and add two 
tablespoonfuls butter rubbed into two tablespoonfuls of flour ; add salt, 
pepper and sugar to taste, onion juice and minced parsley. Cook ten 
minutes and stir in one cup of cooked rice. 

ONION SOUP Mrs. E. P. Rowen 

Slice and boil until tender eight medium sized onions; have a 
strong soup stock ready ; add the onions and season to taste. In each 
plate place a piece of toast and grate Parmesan cheese over it, then 
slowly add the soup the heat of which will melt the cheese. Serve. 

OXTAIL SOUP Mrs. H. J. Keil 

One nice meaty oxtail; two medium sized carrots; two onions; 
one small turnip; two-thirds teaspoonful Kitchen Bouquet; one bay 
leaf; four peppercorns; two or three celery leaves; dash of pepper; 
salt to taste. Wash and cover oxtail with water, add carrots cut in 
cubes. Cut onion and turnip fine and put in a muslin bag with bay 
leaf, peppercorns and celery leaves. This will leave only the carrot 
and meat in soup for table. Bring to a boil and simmer for about 
four hours. Add pepper, salt and Kitchen Bouquet and serve. 

PEA PUREE Mrs. H. P. E. Hafer 

Boil one can of peas with a half a pound of salt pork until very 
soft. Strain and squeeze through a colander. Add one pint of soup 
stock and one-half pint of cream. Salt and pepper to taste. Serve 
with whipped cream. 

19 



Soups 

iiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiMiiiiiiiiiiriiiiiiiiiiimiiiiiiiiiiiiniMiiiiiitiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiniiiiiiitniiMiiiiniiiiiiniiiiiniiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiininiitiiiiiiimiiiiiiini^ 

DUCHESS SOUP 

One quart of milk ; three slices of onion ; one tablespoonf ul flour ; 
one tablespoonful butter; three tablespoonfuls grated cheese; two 
egg yolks beaten; one teaspoonful Kitchen Bouquet. Simmer onion 
in butter, but do not brown ; add flour and milk and stir until smooth, 
then add the cheese and Kitchen Bouquet. Just before taking up add 
the yolks of eggs. Whip some cream and put one teaspoonful in each 
cup. 

SATISFACTION SOUP Alice Clock 

One cup navy beans ; four slices bacon ; one No. 2 can of tomatoes ; 
one small onion ; one level tablespoonful salt ; one-fourth tablespoonful 
black pepper. Soak navy beans over night, in morning put beans on 
to boil with a pinch of soda in water. "When they come to a boil, pour 
off this water, return to stove, cover with clear water, add onion and 
bacon, let boil until tender. When tender strain through sieve, being 
sure to press all through, as far as possible. Next add the strained 
tomatoes and seasoning and lastly, thin with cream or milk to con- 
sistency desired. 

SCOTCH BROTH Mrs. C. A. Bowman 

Cut mutton into small pieces and let it stew all day. Boil one- 
fourth pint pearl barley in a little water until tender; strain it dry, 
chop flue two large onions and turnips and put with the barley and 
meat into a stew pan. Strain the broth into it, also the water from 
the barley and let it boil one and a half hours and skim. Season 
with salt and pepper. 



80 



Sonps 

imiininnnnuiiiiMuiinniMiniiiiiiiiiiiiiiinniininHnitiiinMiMniniinMiMinnniiiiiiiiiiiiMNiiuiiiiiiMiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiriiiiiiiiiiiiitiiiiiriiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiitiiniiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiii 



81 



Soups 

liiimiiiiiiiiiimiiitiiiiiiiiimmtiiiiiiiiimiiiiiimmiiiiiiiinnMiMiiiirMiiMMiMiMiiiniiiiiiMiuiniMiiMiMiiHnniiiiniMiMiiiMHiiiiniiiiiiuMtiiiw^^^ 



22 



FISH 



'The fish called the flounder, perhaps you may know, 
Has one side for use and another for show; 
One side for the public, a delicate brown, 
And one that is white, which he always keeps down.'* 

— Holmes. 



FISH DELIGHT Mrs. William Blanchard 

Mix enough uncooked white fish or Halibut to make two cups; 
add half a cup soft bread crumbs; three-fourths cup cream. Press 
through a colander, season with salt, pepper, lemon juice, and a little 
"Worcestershire sauce. Fold in carefully beaten whites of the two 
eggs. Turn into buttered molds and steam one hour. Serve hot with 
Hollandaise sauce. 

STEAMED HALIBUT, LOBSTER SAUCE Mrs. W. R. McGhee 

Butter a steamer and place a thick slice of Halibut steak on it; 
put over hot water and cook until done. Remove to hot platter and 
pour over it hot lobster sauce. 

Lobster Sauce : Remove the meat from a fresh lobster, about one 
and one-half pounds; make a rich cream sauce, add the lobster and 
pour over Halibut. 

BAKED HALIBUT 

One thick slice of Halibut; one small onion; one tablespoonful 
butter; oile saltspoonful pepper; one teaspoonful Kitchen Bouquet; 
one level teaspoonful salt; one-half cup water. Chop the onion and 
put in bottom of baking pan. Put Halibut on top and dust with salt 
and pepper. Pour over the water to which has been added the Kitchen 
Bouquet, and then add the melted butter. Bake in rather quick oven 
until nicely browned. Garnish with parsley and slices of lemon and 
pour over sauce left in pan. 

FISH SOUFFLE Mrs. W. I. Clock 

One cup baked fish; four eggs; one cup bread crumbs; one heap- 
ing tablespoonful butter. Mix flaked fish and fresh bread or crumbs, 
place in greased baking dish, pour over the beaten eggs and milk; 
the seasoning should be added to the fish and bread crumbs before 
placing in dish. Add the butter in small pieces over the top of the 
dish, before placing in oven. Bake in hot oven thirty minutes. 

S3 



Fish 

iiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiniiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiii I II H iiiiii iiiiiiiiiii iiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiii iiiiiiiiiiiiii iiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiimiiiiii 

FISH WITH TOMATO SAUCE Mrs. Robert Woods 

Bake a well selected fish in oven after seasoning with pepper and 
salt. When done serve with sauce made as follows : 

Pour a quantity of sweet oil in a saucepan. When hot, add two 
sliced onions and when they are cooked, add flour and let onions 
brown in same. Strain a can of tomatoes and add thereto a small 
glass of good wine, and a box of mushrooms chopped fine. Let sauce 
cook, after adding a boquet of thyme, sweet bay, cloves, green onions 
and garlic. Use red pepper only ; and pour over baked fish and serve. 

CODFISH BALLS Mrs. C. A. Jennings 

One and one-half cupfuls of raw codfish picked up; three cup- 
fuls of raw potatoes, diced; one egg; butter size of a walnut; boil 
potatoes and fish together until potatoes are soft. Mash, and add 
pepper and a dash of salt, butter and unbeaten egg and beat until 
light and thoroughly mixed. Shape roughly in a tablespoon and fry 
in smoking fat. 

COD FISH BALLS Belle Shaw 

Half pint measure of raw potatoes, cut in small pieces ; one-half 
pint cod, picked to small pieces. Boil together until potatoes are 
tender; pour off water and mash very fine; add one egg, one table- 
spoonful cream and dash pepper. Form on a spoon and fry in hot lard. 
Lay on brown paper to absorb grease. Serve with cream sauce if 
desired. 

Sauce : One tablespoonful butter ; one tablespoonful flour ; cook 
but do not brown. Add to this a pint boiling milk, a pinch salt, and a 
few pieces of cod to flavor. 

CODFISH PUFF Mrs. Grant Beebe 

Two cups shredded codfish ; one cup milk ; one tablespoonful flour 
for thickening; three eggs. Put milk on stove to warm, then add 
thickening, then codfish that has been soaked and drained^ then the 
beaten yolks. Lastly fold in the whites beaten. 

BROILED FINNAN HADDIE Mrs. W. D. Hurlbut 

Wash fish well; lay in dripping pan, cover with fresh water and 
allow to stand an hour. Drain, place on fish plank, brush with melted 
butter and put under blaze, not too close, and broil for twenty minutes, 
or until a nice brown. Take out plank, surround the edge with mashed 
potatoes, decorate with hard boiled eggs and sprigs of parsley. 

FRIED SHAD ROE Mrs. W. R. McGhee 

Boil shad roe for fifteen minutes in acidulated salted water; re- 
move, cover with cold water and let stand for a few minutes; dry 
thoroughly and roll in cracker crumbs, egg and again in crumbs and 
fry. Garnish with lemon slices. 

24 



Fisli 

imiimiiMiiiiiniiiiiniiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiniiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiMiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiitiiniiiiiiiiiiiiiin iiiiiiiiiiii i iiniiiiiiiiiiiii iiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiniiiiiiniiiiiiiin 

STUFFING FOR FISH Mrs. Max Mauermann 

One cup cracker crumbs; one saltspoon salt; one saltspoon pep- 
per; one saltspoon chopped onions; one saltspoon parsley; one tea- 
spoonful capers ; one teaspoonful chopped pickles ; small piece of butter. 

SHAD ROE, BAKED— CASSEROLE Mrs. Louis Geyler 

Boil roe in salted water (acidulated) five minutes, drain, and cover 
with cold water five minutes ; drain and wipe dry. Brush with melted 
butter, dust with salt and pepper and paprika. Put in casserole, pour 
on one-half cup stock and one-fourth cup best sherry or water and 
bake twenty minutes. Add to sauce two or three yolks mixed with 
one cup cream and strain over roe. Or pour over thin tomato sauce. 

FROGS LEGS A LA POULETTE Mrs. W. D. Hurlbut 

Trim and clean the frog:s legs ; boil three minutes. Cover with a 
sauce made as follows: Three tablespoonfuls butter and three of 
flour rubbed together; add one-half cup of cream and one cup of 
chicken stock; season with salt and pepper and just before serving 
add the yolks of two eggs, well beaten, and one-half tablespoonful 
lemon juice. Very nice served in a chafing dish. 

FROGS LEGS, TARTARE SAUCE 

Trim and wipe the desired number of frogs legs; sprinkle with 
salt and pepper, dip in fine cracker crumbs, beaten egg and again in 
crumbs. Fry three minutes in deep hot fat. Drain and serve at once 
with tartare sauce. 

SALMON EN CASSEROLE Mrs. George D. Milligan 

One pint milk ; three tablespoonfuls flour ; stir until smooth ; cook 
and remove from fire; add one-half cup butter. When cool add two 
well beaten eggs, pepper and salt and bake in casserole, putting a 
layer of sauce, then salmon and finish with bread crumbs on top. 
Bake about thirty minutes. 

MOULDED SALMON Mrs. C. A. Robinson 

One can of salmon; three eggs; one-half pint milk; chopped 
parsley, pepper and salt and a little "Worcestershire sauce. Chop the 
salmon very fine, first picking away all skin and bone ; beat the eggs, 
add the seasoning, mix thoroughly and steam two hours in a mould. 

SALMON CROQUETTES Mrs. George Longwell 

One pound of salmon ; one cup cream ; two tablespoonfuls butter ; 
one tablespoonful flour; three eggs, seasoning. Chop the salmon fine, 
make a cream sauce of the butter, flour and cream; add the salmon 
and seasoning; boil one minute ; stir in one well beaten egg and remove 
from fire. When cold, make into croquettes; dip in cracker crumbs, 
then in beaten eggs, again in cracker crumbs and fry in deep fat. 

25 



Fish 

iiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiniiiiiiiiiiiuiiiiHiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiMiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiMiiiiiniiiMiiiiniiinuiiiinininiiiininiiiiiiiiiiHiiiiiiiiiiiiniiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiMiiiiii^ 

COLD SALMON LOAF Mrs. R. E. P. Kline 

One pound can of salmon; one-half tablespoonful each of sugar 
and flour ; one tablespoonful melted butter ; one teaspoonful salt ; one- 
half teaspoonf ul mustard ; dash of cayenne ; yolks of two eggs, beaten ; 
three-fourths cup milk or cream ; one-fourth cup vinegar. Pick salmon 
over and put with other ingredients (after carefully blending them) 
into double boiler; cook until eggs are done; remove from fire and 
add three tablespoonfuls of gelatin, softened in cold water. Mould, 
chill, and serve with cucumber sauce. 

Sauce : One-half cup cream, beaten ; season with salt, pepper and 
a little onion juice. Add two tablespoonfuls vinegar and one cucumber 
chopped fine and drained as dry as possible. 

SALMON EN SURPRISE Mrs. T. D. McMicken 

Moisten one cup flaked salmon with butter sauce, pinch minced 
parsley; one hard boiled egg, chopped fine. Line individual buttered 
molds with mashed potatoes. Fill centers with fish, cover with potato. 
Turn out carefully, roll in egg crumbs and fry brown. Garnish with a 
slice of hard boiled egg on top of mold and parsley. 

SMOKED STURGEON AND SCRAMBLED EGGS 

Mrs. W. D. Hurlbut 

Mince one-half pound smoked sturgeon ; beat six eggs until light, 
add sturgeon; have butter heated in a skillet, add the mixture and 
scramble. Serve with toast points. 

EGG SAUCE FOR FISH Mrs. Maxwell 

Cook together a tablespoonful each of butter and flour; pour 
upon this a cupful of sweet milk and stir until thick and smooth. Sea- 
son with salt and white pepper, add one hard boiled egg chopped fine ; 
and one raw egg beaten light. Stir just long enough for the sauce to 
return to the boil and serve. 



26 



Fisli 

iiiiiniiniiminriiiiitintiiiniiiiiinHiiiiiMiinniiiriniinintnniitiitiMiiiiiMirMiHiniiniMiiiiiiiiiiuitMitiiMnrtiitrinnrrinirttiirrnriiiintinrrtiHiiiinniininiiiintiiniiuimiiiiii 



27 



Fisli 

iiitiiiiiiiiiiiitiiiiHiiiiiiiiinniniiniiiiHimiHimiiiiiimiiiiiMiHiiiniiiiiiininiiuinnHininmiihMiininiininiHniiiiiiniMininiiniHniiiiMiitliiliiimililliH^^^^ 



28 



SHELL FISH 



'I wiped away the weeds and foam, 
I fetched my sea-horn treasures home." 



OYSTER SAUSAGE Mrs. W. L. Gregson 

One-half pound of veal; one pint oysters; one-fourth pound of 
suet ; all chopped fine. Add enough rolled cracker to make into pat- 
ties; dip in egg and fry in butter. 

OYSTER CROQUETTES Mrs. Frank Maccoy 

Two sets of calf brains, stewed in salt water; one quart oysters, 
stew in their own liquor until they curl, cut in small pieces. Chop 
brains and mix with oysters ; two tablespoonfuls melted butter ; a few 
drops onion juice; four tablespoonfuls bread crumbs; one-half cup 
cream. If too dry add a little of the oyster juice. Bake in shells. 

DEVILED OYSTERS 

One pint of oysters, seasoned with salt and pepper, stiffened with 
cracker dust to hold shape, place in oyster shells, pour over melted 
butter. Put shells in a dripping pan and bake in a quick oven to a 
light brown. 

CREAMED OYSTERS IN CHAFING DISH Mrs. Marquis Regan 

Put large tablespoonful of butter in chafing dish, when melted 
add two tablespoonfuls of sifted flour, mix thoroughly, then add juice 
strained from one quart of oysters, cook until thickness of cream, 
constantly stirring, then add oysters, cook until edges curl, season to 
taste with salt and pepper, serve on toasted crackers. 

OYSTERS SCALLOPED WITH CELERY Blanch Ellis Layton 

One quart of bulk oysters, one-half dozen stalks of celery, cut 
into one-half inch pieces. Drain the oysters, reserving the liquor. 
Cover bottom of baking dish with crumbs of bread or crackers, then a 
layer of the oysters, with a generous dash of salt and pepper and 
plenty of butter. Over this put a lawyer of the celery, fill the dish 
in this way and pour over one cup of the oyster liquor. On top sprinkle 
a thick layer of the crumbs, adding butter in small pieces. Bake one 
hour in a moderate oven. 

29 



Shell Fish 

iiiininittiiiiinii iiiniiiiuiniiiiiiiiiiiMiiiiMiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiuiniiiiiiiiiitiitiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiitiiiiiiiiiiiniiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiniiiiiiiiiiiimm^ 

OYSTER PIE 

Line a shallow pudding pan with light pastry, put in oysters, 
milk, butter, salt and pepper, bake in a very quick oven 20 minutes; 
one pint of oysters, one pint milk, one tablespoonful butter, salt and 
pepper to taste. 

ROAST OYSTERS ON THE HALF SHELL Mrs. W. D. Hurlbut 

Scrub the shells of live oysters until free from sand; place in 
dripping pan in a hot oven and roast until shells open; take off the 
top shell, being careful not to spill the juice in lower shell; serve in 
the shell with side dish of melted butter. 

PANNED OYSTERS Mrs. H. Clay Calhoun 

Clean one pint of oysters and drain from their liquor. Put in a 
stewpan and cook until oysters are plump and edges begin to curl. 
Shake pan to prevent oysters from adhering to pan. Season with salt, 
pepper and two tablespoonfuls butter and put over small slices of 
toast. Garnish with parsley. 

OYSTER FRICASSEE Mrs. Arthur M. Lucius 

Clean one pint of oysters, heat oyster liquor to boiling point, strain 
through double thickness of cheese-cloth; add oysters to liquor and 
cook until plump. Remove oysters with skimmer and add enough 
cream to oysters to make one cupful. Melt two tablespoonfuls butter 
and add two of flour ; then pour on gradually the hot liquor ; add salt, 
paprika, one teaspoonful finely minced parsley and one egg slightly 
beaten. Pour over oysters and serve. 

BROILED OYSTERS Mrs. W. D. Hurlbut 

Clean oysters and dry on a towel. Dip in butter, then in cracker 
crumbs seasoned with salt and pepper ; place in a buttered wire broiler 
and broil until juice runs ; turn and cook other side. Place on toast, 
mince celery over the oysters and pour over all a thin cream sauce. 

BROILED OYSTERS Mrs. W. K. Mitchell 

Select large oysters ; wrap a thin slice of bacon around each, fasten- 
ing with a toothpick; place in a broiler, which in turn is put in a 
dripping pan to catch the drippings; broil until bacon is brown and 
crisp, turning to cook other side. Garnish with parsley. 

OYSTERS IN BROWN SAUCE 

One pint oysters; one-fourth cup butter; one-fourth cup flour; 
one cupful oyster liquor; one-half cup milk; one teaspoonful Kitchen 
Bouquet; one-half teaspoonful salt; one-eighth teaspoonful pepper. 
Parboil and drain the oysters. Brown the butter, add the flour and 
stir until well blended, add oyster liquor, milk, Kitchen Bouquet, salt, 
pepper and oysters. Serve in patty cases or ramekins. 

80 



Shell Fisli 

niiiiiiiiiimmimiiiii nut iiiiiiiiiimmiiniiiMiiiiiiitrtiiiiir iiiiiinni iiiiiii iimi iiiiimi iiiimimi i i niiiiiiiiiiiniitinri iiiii 

CASSEROLE OF OYSTERS Miss Agnes Sieber 

Line ramekins or large casserole with minced chicken, seasoned 
well, and moistened with a little cream. Fill with parboiled oysters 
cut in pieces, and mushrooms sliced sauted in butter and mixed with 
the following sauce: Cook three tablespoonfuls salt pork fat with 
three of flour, add salt, cayenne, nutmeg and parsley ; also thyme and 
mushroom parings. Cook a moment, add one and one-half cups 
white stock, and simmer one hour, skimming often. Strain, add about 
one-half cup hot cream or enough to make sauce right consistency. 
Add four drops lemon juice. Cover with more chicken, sprinkle with 
buttered crumbs, and brown in oven. 

OYSTERS AND MACARONI Mrs. H. Clay Calhoun 

Boil macaroni in salted water, drain through a colander. Drain 
oysters until the liquor is all off. In a casserole put alternate layers 
of macaroni, oysters and a thick cream sauce, until dish is filled; 
sprinkle top with grated cheese and bake about half an hour. 

OMELETTE AUX HUITRES Mrs. R. Woods 

Drain two dozen oysters. Have ready some hot lard and throw 
them in. Let fry until they begin to curl, then spread over them four 
well beaten eggs seasoned with salt and pepper and stir all together 
until done. Serve hot. 

FRIED SCALLOPS 

Clean one quart of scallops, turn into a saucepan and cook until 
they begin to shrivel; drain and dry between towels. Roll in fine 
cracker crumbs seasoned with salt and pepper, dip in egg and again 
in crumbs and fry in deep fat. Garnish with slices of lemon dipped 
in parsley. 

JAMBALAYA OF RICE AND SHRIMPS Mrs. Robert Woods 

Boil two dozen of large shrimps; when cold, peel and set aside. 
Fry in hot lard a chopped onion and a cupful of rice washed in cold 
water. Let the onion and rice fry well, add the shrimps, stirring 
constantly. When browned, add enough water to cover the whole. 
Season with salt and pepper, a bay leaf, thyme and chopped parsley. 
Let boil slowly, and add water until the rice is well cooked. When 
done, let it dry and serve hot. 

SHRIMP FRICASSEE Mrs. Ada Woods 

Boil the desired quantity of shrimp and set aside. For sauce fry 
in three tablespoonfuls bacon drippings a large onion, chopped fine; 
when browned, add three tablespoonfuls flour and blend; add slowly 
about a quart of water, stirring constantly; when smooth add the 
shrimp ; season with a bay leaf, thyme, a tablespoonful chopped parsley 
and a clove of garlic, minced. Let cook slowly until ready to serve. 
Boil rice until dry and creamy and serve with the above. 

81 



Shell Fish 

iiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiniiiriniiiiiiimiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiitiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiitiitiii riiiiiiiiniiiiiiiiiiiiiinriiiiiiiiiiiii niiiiiiiiiiiinnniiiiiiiiiiimmnininiiiiiiiimm 

SHRIMP RAMIKINS Mrs. Max Mauerraami 

One pint of shrimp; one tablespoonfnl flour; one tablespoonful 
butter; one tablespoonful catsup; one tablespoonful cream; one cup 
hot soup stock; two yolks eggs; salt, cayenne pepper and grated 
onion. Heat butter, add flour, then other ingredients. Cook until 
smooth, then add shrimp. Pill the ramikins with mixture and cover 
with cracker crumbs and butter. Bake six minutes. 

SHRIMP WIGGLE Mrs. Willard Brown 

Make a rich cream sauce ; add one can of shrimp and one can of 
green peas ; allow to cook until all is well heated, serve on toast. 

CRAB A LA CREOLE 

One can Japanese crab meat ; four tablespoonfuls shortening ; two 
green peppers ; one large onion ; three tomatoes ; one cupful milk ; two 
tablespoonfuls flour ; one teaspoonful Kitchen Bouquet, one teaspoonful 
salt, one-fourth teaspoonful pepper. Make a white sauce by melting 
half the shortening, add flour and when well mixed slowly add milk; 
stir until creamy, add salt and pepper. In another saucepan melt the 
other half of shortening, when hot, fry onion and pepper, minced, for 
ten minutes. Then add tomatoes, cut up, and when tender add 
Kitchen Bouquet and crab meat and stir slowly into the white sauce. 
When well mixed, pour over buttered toast and serve. 

LOBSTER A LA BOUQUET 

One good sized lobster; two ounces butter; one small onion; one 
can mushrooms; one pint boiling water; one teaspoonful Kitchen 
Bouquet ; one teaspoonful salt ; one saltspoonful pepper. Put the but- 
ter and chopped onion in saucepan, cook until onion is brown, then 
add two tablespoonfuls flour and the water. When boiling add salt 
and pepper. Strain and add mushrooms and Kitchen Bouquet. Sim- 
mer for ten minutes then stand over hot water. Cut lobster in good 
sized pieces, put into sauce, cover the pan closely, let stand ten min- 
utes longer over hot water and serve. 



82 



Shell Fish 

iiiiiiiiiinnriiitiiriMiiiirrtiiiiiiiiiiiiittiiriiiiiniiiiiiiiintiiMiiiiiiriiiriiiiiiiriiiiitiiiiiiiiiJiiiiiiiiiiiJMiiMiJiJiJiitiiiiMrtiir uiiiiiiMJiriiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiniiiniiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiim 



33 



Shell Tish 

,„„iiiiiiiiii Hill iiiniiiiii I I mil iiiiiiiiiiuiiiiiiiiiii mill iimimiiiii i i mnmiiiimiiiimiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiimiiiiiiiiiiiii 



34 



MEATS AND FOWL 



'Some Jiae meat and canna eat, 
And some wad eat tJiat want it. 
But we Jiae meat and we can eat, 
And, so the Lord be tJiank it." 



BEEFSTEAK ROLL Mrs. J. E. Kelly 

Use a large slice of round steak cut one-half inch thick. Make a 
dressing by mixing together: One cupful grated breadcrumbs, two- 
thirds teaspoonful salt, one well-beaten egg, one tablespoonful melted 
butter, one small onion, grated, a few dashes of paprika and a half 
teaspoonful powdered sweet herbs. Lay the steak on a board, sprinkle 
with salt and pepper, spread thickly with the dressing and roll up. 
Wind with soft cord to hold in place. Put three tablespoonfuls of 
pork fat in a frying pan and when very hot, dredge the roll with 
flour and brown it quickly on all sides. Place meat in kettle that has 
a tight fitting cover. MeanM'hile, add to the fat in the pan two slices 
of minced onion, and one tablespoonful flour. Stir until very smooth, 
pour in a cupful of stock (or hot water) and when the gravy boils, pour 
over the roll with a pint of strained tomato. Season to taste with 
salt and pepper, cover the kettle closely and as soon as the contents 
boil, place where it will simmer for about two hours. "When cooked, 
remove the strings, and serve on a heated platter, with the strained 
gravy poured over it. 

HAMBURGER POT DINNER Mrs. Antonio Sterba 

With two pounds hamburger steak, mix well one cup raw rice 
(wash well) ; one medium sized onion, chopped ; season and make into 
balls. Line bottom of a pot with small pieces of suet; when this is 
melted, place meat balls in the pot, cover with water, and cook until 
rice is about done. Add one can of tomatoes (quart can). A half 
hour before serving, peel enough medium-sized potatoes to circle the 
platter to be used. Place these on top of tomatoes. When potatoes 
are done, arrange them around the outside rim of the platter with 
the meat balls in the center, and pour over the meat enough gravy for 
first serving. Remainder of gravy may be used on table in a casserole 
or gravy dish. Care must be used in measuring the rice — too much 
will cause the balls to fall to pieces. One advantage of this dish is 
that it may be prepared the day before, or the morning before serving, 
with the exception of the potatoes. 

85 



Meats and Fo-wl 

■iiiiiniinniinnnitnniiHniiniiiiiiiniiiMiMiiMiiMniMnnniiiiiiniiiinniiirMnitiitiinnMnniinMiiiriiiiiiiiniiiiiiiiiiiiiiiMiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiinrmiiiiiMniiiiiiiiiiiiiiinimi^ 

CALVES' HEARTS STUFFED AND BRAISED Mrs. W. R. McGhee 

"Remove veins, arteries, and blood clots, wash, stuff and sew. 
Sprinkle with salt, pepper, roll in flour and brown richly in hot drip- 
pina:. Place in Dutch oven or in one of the small vessels in tireless 
cooker. Half cover with boiling water, surround with six slices carrot, 
one stalk celery, broken in pieces, one onion sliced, two sprays parsley, 
a bit of bay leaf, three cloves and one-half teaspoonful peppercorns. 
Cover closely and bake slowly two or more hours basting often if 
cooked in Dutch oven. If necessary, add more water. Remove hearts 
to serving platter, strain and thicken the liquor with flour diluted 
with water. Season with salt, pepper and one-half teaspoonful Kitchen 
Bouquet. 

LUNCHEON BEEF Mrs. I. A. Wilcox 

One cup or more of cold cooked beef chopped; one cup of bread 
crumbs; season with salt, pepper and butter. Place in baking dish 
and cover with buttered bread crumbs. Pour milk in dish until you 
can just see it. Bake in oven till light brown on top. Can use any 
kind of cold cooked beef, as steak, roast, or boiled beef. If you have 
a few cold mashed potatoes, put them through ricer on top of meat 
to form upper crust. Dot with butter and let brown. 

POT ROAST Mary S. VanzwoU 

Round steak one and one-half inches thick. Salt and pepper. 
Pound a cup of flour in, on both sides. Sear both sides in melted fat, 
and butter. Put in baking dish and cover with water. Cook in oven 
two and one-half hours. 

SPANISH STEAK Mrs. W. H. Hart 

One and one-half pounds round steak, ground ; one and one-half 
pounds of pork steak, ground ; one heaping cupful bread crumbs ; one 
cupful canned or fresh tomatoes ; two green peppers, minced ; one-half 
cupful minced onion ; one egg ; two teaspoonfuls salt. Mix all together 
and bake forty-five minutes in flat cake. 

BRAISED BEEF Mrs. I. S. Blackwelder 

Round steak about three inches thick (about two pounds) ; place 
in a hot skillet and turn so that it is seared on both sides, to prevent 
escape of juices. In a covered baking pan make a bed of chopped 
vegetables (potatoes, turnips, carrots, onions, etc.) ; season well. Place 
upon it the beef with enough water to keep the mess steaming for 
four hours. Cover tight. 

MOTHER'S BEEF LOAF Mrs. F. E. Lyons 

Three pounds round steak, ground ; three eggs ; two-thirds cup 
cracker crumbs; three teaspoonfuls ground sage; two teaspoonfuls 
salt; one teaspoonful pepper. Mix together thoroughly and bake in 
a 5xl0-inch bread pan, from one to one and one-half hours. 

86 



Meats and Foivl 

II iiiiniiiiininiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiii iiiiiiiiiiiiiiiii iiiiiiii iiiiiiiiiiiiiiiitiiitiin iiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiitiiniiiiiiuiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiniiiiiii iiiiiiiniiini 

MEAT PIE 

Butter an earthen baking dish and line to the depth of one and 
one-half inches with hot mashed potatoes, season with finely chopped 
chives (one tahlespoonful to two cups mashed potatoes). Fill center 
with chopped left-over cold beef, veal or chicken. Moisten with brown 
or cream sauce, to which add one-half tahlespoonful minced parsley 
and onion juice. Cover with a layer of the potato mixture, make 
several openings in top of pie and brush top over with beaten egg, 
diluted with milk. Bake in hot oven until heated through and well 
browned. Serve hot in baking dish. 

BRAISED LARDED LIVER Mrs. W. R. McGhee 

Skewer, tie in shape (if necessary) and lard the upper side of 
calf's liver. Place in a deep pan with remnants of lardoons; season 
with salt and pepper ; dredge "with flour. Surround with one-half each 
carrot, onion, celery, cut in dice; one-half teaspoonful peppercorns, 
six cloves, bit of bay leaf and two cups brown stock or water. Cover 
closely and bake slowly two hours, uncover the last twenty minutes of 
cooking. Remove from pan, serve with the French onions or pour 
around brown sauce. 

HAMBURG STEAK Sue C. Woodman 

Mix one egg and a little salt and pepper; make into balls and 
bake in closed pan quickly. 

POT ROAST Mrs. C. S. Junge 

Procure a Boston cut of roast of beef; brown a minced onion in 
skillet with butter and bacon fat ; in this brown all sides of the roast. 
Remove the roast and in the fat stir two tablespoonfuls of flour and fill 
skillet nearly full of hot water. Season this gravy well with salt, 
pepper, bay and garlic and pour over roast in casserole. Place a few 
slices of tomato on top or pour in a cup of strained tomato ; place some 
carrots around the roast and put in cooker for at least four hours. 

BRAIN PATTIES Mrs. E. Iglehart 

Plunge the calf's brains into boiling water for three minutes, 
remove from water and pick off the dark muscles, roll into cracker 
dust or bread crumbs in small patties and drop into hot fat. Salt 
and pepper. 

ROAST BEEF SOUFFLE Mrs. H. S. Hart 

One tahlespoonful butter melted in sauce pan, one tahlespoonful 
of flour added and well mixed, one cup milk. Chop beef, or any kind 
of cold meat quite fine and add to milk after it has thickened; salt 
and pepper to taste. Then stir in the yolks of three eggs, cook slightly, 
cool, add beaten whites of eggs. Put in greased dish and bake about 
half an hour. Is nice served with tomato sauce or peas. About one 
and one-half cups of the chopped meat for the above. 

37 



Meats and Fo-wl 

IIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIUIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIII IIIIIIIN Illlllllllllll IIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIK 

MEAT LOAF Mrs. L. E. Brown 

Two pounds of round steak ; one pound fresh pork ; four tomatoes ; 
three pimentoes; two eggs; four crackers, rolled; salt, pepper and 
paprika. Mix altogether; bake in bread pan two hours in moderate 
oven. Sauce : One and one-half tablespoonfuls butter, flour and milk. 
Season with liquid from meat. 

TOUGH STEAKS Mrs. E. S. Smith 

Pour a mixture of two tablespoonfuls of vinegar ; and one of olive 
oil over a steak. Let stand several hours before broiling. The result 
is delicious. 

VEAL CROQUETTES Belle Shaw 

Two pounds veal, chopped fine; one teaspoonful chopped pars- 
ley; two eggs, hard boiled and chopped; salt and pepper, to taste. 
Soak enough bread crumbs, and add to mixture; form balls. Roll in 
egg and cracker crumbs and fry in deep fat. 

BONED AND STUFFED LEG OF LAMB Mrs. H. L. Baumgardner 

Order a leg of lamb boned at the market. Make a stuffing as for 
chicken. Put in roasting pan with a small sliced onion, one-fourth cup 
each of turnip and carrot, season with bay leaf and parsley. Add three 
cupfuls of hot water, salt and pepper. Cook slowly until done. Serve 
with Currant Jelly Sauce. 

Currant Jelly Sauce : To the regular brown gravy you would 
make with roast, add one-half cupful of currant jelly which has been 
beaten and a little lemon juice; well stirred together and let all boil 
a minute or two. 

LAMB STEW A LA CREOLE 

Wipe three pounds lamb, cut from neck or shoulder. Cut into 
pieces two inches square. Melt one-fourth cup dripping, add meat 
and stir and brown evenly. Add two onions, thinly sliced, one sprig 
parsley, small bit bay leaf, two cloves and one-half teaspoonful pepper- 
corns (tie last three spices in a bit of cheese cloth), and boiling water 
to nearly cover meat. Simmer slowly until meat is tender (about one 
and one-half hours). Then add two or three small carrots, scraped 
and cut in lengthwise pieces, season with salt. Parboil six medium- 
sized potatoes cut in thick slices five minutes, drain, add to stew ; add 
two cups thick tomato puree and simmer slowly until vegetables are 
tender. Add more water if necessary. Remove spices, add one cup 
French peas when heated through, turn into deep, hot platter and 
sprinkle vvdth chopped parsley. 

LAMB HASH WITH GREEN PEPPERS Mrs. W. D. Hurlbut 

Mince cold roast lamb in about half inch pieces; add a sweet 
green pepper, minced (discarding seeds) ; add the gravy and heat 
thoroughly. Serve on toast. 

38 



Meats and Foxrl 

tniiiiiimimiiniinniiiiiiniiiiiimiiiiminiiiiiiniiniiniiiimiminiiiiimmiiiniiMniniiiiiiiiiiniinniiniiHiniinHninininiimiiiiiiMiiiiiiiiiiniiu 

RECIPE FOR CORNINa BEEP Mrs. W. T. Foster 

Five tablespoonfuls of salt; two tablespoonfuls of brown sugar; 
one-half teaspoonful salt peter, or less ; this is for five pounds of beef. 
Cover with water ; leave three or four days and boil in same water. 

MOCK TERRAPIN Mrs. W. H. Muschlet 

Two cupfuls cold boiled or roast lamb cut into small pieces. Put 
a tablespoonful of butter into double boiler; when melted add one 
tablespoonful of flour. Rub smooth; add one pint of milk; stir con- 
tinuously till it thickens; then set pot back where it won't cook hard, 
and add one well beaten egg, a tablespoonful minced parsley, a little 
nutmeg, red pepper, salt to taste, two hard boiled eggs cut (not too 
fine) ; then the lamb. Let it keep hot, but not boil, till lamb is thor- 
oughly heated. When serving, add a teaspoonful lemon juice. 

VEAL LOAF WITH EGG Mrs. H. B. Rairden 

Two and one-half pounds of veal; two pork chops, ground to- 
gether; three eggs; three rolled crackers; one teaspoonful each salt 
and pepper. Mix well together. Put half of mixture in a loaf pan, 
peel six eggs which have been hard boiled, clip off the ends so they 
fit closely together, and lay them in the center of the loaf; place the 
balance of the meat about them, fill up pan, packing it solid; put in 
double baker on top of stove to steam for one and one-half hours, 
spread butter over top and put in oven to finish baking. In slicing it 
you get the slice of hard boiled egg in the center. 

VEAL LOAF Mrs. A. Donald Campbell 

One and one-half pounds of veal and one slice of salt pork, chopped 
fine. Add two tablespoonfuls of cracker dust ; one egg ; piece of butter 
size of an egg; one teaspoonful each of salt and pepper; little grated 
nutmeg; dash of Worcestershire sauce. Mix well and bake in a loaf 
shaped pan with cracker crumbs and bits of butter on top. Bake 
about one and three-quarters hours. 

BAKED SPICED HAM, ALABAMA STYLE Mrs. K. T. Cary 

Soak a fifteen pound ham in cold water to cover over night. Wash, 
scrub and trim off inedible parts. Set over a trivet in a boiler and 
cover with boiling "water. Mix four cups brown sugar, one large 
sliced onion, one red Chili pepper pod, one tablespoonful each of whole 
cloves, allspice and cassia buds, two thinly sliced lemons, discarding 
seeds, add to water in boiler. Cover and cook slowly two and one- 
half hours. Remove from boiler, peel off rind and put ham in dripping 
pan, fat side up. Bake slowly two and one-half hours, basting with 
one cup sherry wine (using a tablespoon) a little at a time until all is 
used, then baste with dripping in pan thirty minutes, before removing 
from oven, sprinkle fat side with equal measures of brown sugar and 
fine bread crumbs, stick with cloves and brown richly. Serve hot 
champagne, horseradish or mustard sauce. 

39 



Meats and Foivl 

iiiuiiniiMnniiiiiiiinniinnniniiinnnniiMniiiHininiiiniMinnMninnnniiiiniiiiiiiinniiiiiiiiiiniiiiiiiiiiiuiiHiiiiiiiiiimiiiiiiiiiiMiiiiniiiiiniiimiiiiininiiiiniiinn 

KOLDOLMA Mrs. F. W. Waddell 

Two pounds of veal; one pound fresh pork; one-half lemon, bay 
leaf and one small bottle capers; one clove of garlic; juice of one 
onion. Put all through grinder, salt, pepper to taste. Roll in small 
soft balls. Enclose neatly in cabbage leaves, secure with toothpicks. 
Place in Dutch oven which has previously melted one-fourth pound 
of butter with a little chopped parsley. Alternate layers with a small 
sifting of flour until all are in pan. Let simmer in one pint of water 
(boiling) without allowing any steam to escape for two hours ; remove 
and thicken broth with yolks of five eggs. Serve eight persons. 

VIRGINIA HAM Mrs. G. W. Plummer 

Buy a center cut of ham, two inches thick (about two and one- 
half or three pounds) ; soak over night in milk (sweet or sour) suffi- 
cient to cover ham. About two hours before serving time drain off 
enough milk so that the top of ham is uncovered; spread over this 
uncovered top ; one tablespoonful dry ground mustard mixed with two 
tablespoonfuls brown sugar; bake in a slow oven. The milk will dis- 
appear in a rich brown gravy; if it gets too low in pan add water. 
When ready to serve remove ham to platter, add flour to fat in pan 
and when well cooked, add boiling water to make gravy of consistency 
of thick cream. Lemon slices and sherry may be added. It may need 
to be strained if milk curds are objected to ; pour around ham. Has 
flavor of finest "Old Virginia Ham." 

HAM EN CASSEROLE Mrs. A. Donald Campbell 

Have ham cut two inches thick, leaving on rind. Pour over it 
good, generous cup of milk and one-half cup brown sugar, partly dis- 
solving sugar in the milk on top of stove, before pouring over ham. 
Cook all in casserole two hours. Serve with rings of fried apples on 
chop plate. 

ROGNONS AUX TOMATOES Mrs. R. Woods 

Cut in small pieces a fresh kidney and fry in hot lard. When 
almost done add to it a sliced onion, half cup of tomatoes and a slice 
of ham. Let all fry together, and when done add a spoonful of flour, 
a piece of red pepper and a spoonful of chopped garlic and parsley. 
Thin with a little water, season with salt, and let boil a few minutes, 
when it is done. 

EASTER HAM Mrs. E. Iglehart 

One-half pint grated bread crumbs, one cup currants, one salt- 
spoonful of salt, one saltspoonful sweet marjoram or thyme, one salt 
spoonful of black pepper, moisten with sweet milk. Boil small ham 
until tender, remove bone and skin, fill in the cavity with dressing, 
wind with cord into shape, puncture with skewer in the fat parts and 
fill the holes with dressing. Bake in a closed pan in a hot oven one 
hour. 

40 



Meats and Foxrl 

iiiiiiiiiiitiinnniiiMiiiiiiiiiniiiiiiniiiiiiiiniiiinniniininiiniiniininiHiiiiiuiiHiininniiMniiiiitniniiiiiiiiniiiiiiiiiiiinniiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiniiiininiiiiiiinimiiiiiniiiiiiiiu 

HAM PUFF Mrs. A. Donald Campbell 

Scald one pint of milk, one cup flour; stir constantly until thick. 
Let cool, then add beaten yolks of eight eggs. Beat thoroughly, add 
beaten whites, a little suet, one and one-half cups of chopped, boiled 
ham, and one-half cup butter. Set tin in pan of water, and bake 
three-fourths of an hour. Keep standing in water until served. 

HAM LOAF Mrs. W. C. Thorbus 

Two pounds of ham, ground ; one pound of pork loin, ground ; two 
eggs, beaten ; one cupful rolled cracker crumbs ; one cupful milk ; pep- 
per to taste. Mix all together, put in a baking tin and pour over it 
one cupful tomatoes and bake two hours. 

JAMABALA OF HAM Mrs. H. Clay Calhoun 

One large slice of raw ham; one large onion; put through the 
grinder and fry. When thoroughly cooked add two cups boiled rice; 
one quart of tomatoes and half of a sweet green pepper, chopped fine. 
Serve hot on toast. 

BARBECUED ROAST PORK Mrs. Chase 

Place pork roast in dry self-basting or similar roaster. Place in 
oven for thirty minutes. In meantime put one cup of vinegar, one 
teaspoonful red pepper, one teaspoonful black pepper, one teaspoonful 
salt in saucepan and bring to a boil. Baste roast every fifteen or 
twenty minutes with this sauce at boiling point, draining off sauce 
after each basting and returning sauce to saucepan, which should be 
kept at the boiling point. Drain off sauce and serve in separate dish. 

CROWN ROAST OF YOUNG PORK Mrs. M. Dippen 

Have crown roast made of young pork ribs, same as of lamb ; fill 
the center with medium sized potatoes, boiled and rolled in butter and 
minced parsley; surround with fried apples. 

BROILED SAUSAGE Mrs. W. D. Hurlbut . 

One and one-half or two pounds of well seasoned sausage meat 
mold it into a flat cake; place in a frying basket which, in turn, is 
put in a larger pan, to catch the drippings. Put under the blaze and 
let it broil slowly ; when nicely browned on one side turn it over and 
brown that side. When done remove to hot platter and surround with 
fried apples. 

PORK CHOPS WITH POTATOES Mrs. C. S. Junge 

In a casserole place a layer of sliced raw potatoes and over it 
sprinkle of flour. Put in a layer of chops and a layer of potatoes 
and repeat until casserole is full. Nearly cover with milk that is 
seasoned with salt and pepper. Sprinkle cheese over top and bake 
two hours. 

41 



Meats and Fowl 

iiniiiiiiiiMniinnnuniiiiniuiiiinninniiiiiniiiiiniiMnHiuiiMniiNjniiinMiiinniniiiiiiniiiiMniiniinniiiimiMiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiniiiiiiiiiiriiiiiiiiiiiiiiniiitiiiiiiii 

GRANDMOTHER'S PORK NOODLES Mrs. H. D. Sheldon 

One-half pound of salt pork, sliced; six medium onions; six 
medium potatoes; noodles. Boil salt pork until very nearly done. 
Add potatoes and onions. Cook until they are beginning to be 
tender. Have about two quarts of water left. Add noodles and finish 
cooking. This will make a thick stew. 

PORK CHOP CASSEROLE , Mrs. George D. Milligan 

Sprinkle bottom of dish with flour; place pork chops then on 
top a layer of sliced raw potatoes and onions, finish with bread 
crumbs. Bake until potatoes are done. Use no liquid. 

BAKED PORK CHOPS Sue C. Woodman 

Cut thick, wash and dip in flour; place in deep pan; season 
with pepper, salt, and a little sage. Cover tightly and bake forty 
minutes in quick oven. 

STUFFED PORK TENDERLOINS Mrs. C. E. Balluff 

Split two large tenderloins and flatten out as wide as possible, 
spread one with a very thick layer of dressing (such as is used for 
turkey dressing). Place the second tenderloin on this and tie them to- 
gether, roast in a medium oven, basting frequently with boiling water 
and a small piece of melted butter. 

STUFFED SPARERIBS Mrs. H. L. Middleton 

Have two sets of ribs cracked across the middle; rub the insides 
with salt, pepper and dredge with flour. Cook sauerkraut half an 
hour, drain and fill the ribs ; tie or sew closely together and put in 
oven. Pour over the ribs the water in which the sauerkraut was 
boiled. When one side is browned, turn them over and brown the 
other side. Serve with brown gravy. 

DELMONICO CLUB HOUSE SAUSAGE Miss A. Brennan 

To every twenty-one pounds of meat: Lean pork, seven pounds; 
fat, seven pounds; round beef, seven pounds. Seven ounces salt; one 
and one-half ounces black pepper ; one coffee cup powdered sage and 
summer savory; one teaspoonful cayenne, slack; one tablespoonful 
freshly ground ginger; one tablespoonful ground mustard. Get your 
meat ground at the butchers. Mix the sausage yourself. Mix spices 
all together with salt, working it through the meat with your hands. 

FRIED PICKLED i>IGS' FEET Mrs, W. D. Hurlbut 

Have butcher split the pigs' feet; boil until bones are ready to fall 
out; put in an earthen dish and cover with a mild vinegar which has 
been boiled for ten minutes with a few slices of onion and spices ; when 
the vinegar is cold the pigs' feet will be sufficiently pickled. Drain, 
roll in flour and fry. 

42 



Meats and Fowl 

tiiniiiiiHiiiiiiiinriHtniiiiiiiiiiiiiiniiiiiiiiinriiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiirniiiiiiiiiniiiiiiiiiiiiniiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiMiniiiiinnniinnnniiiniiiinininiiiiiMnuiMn 

ENGLISH SAUSAGE Mrs. C. A. Carscadin 

Six pounds lean pork ; two pounds fat pork ; one pound loaf bread 
thoroughly soaked in water; two ounces salt; one ounce best white 
pepper; two medium sized nutmegs, grated. Mix all together, put 
into chopper. Leg of pork is best, but shoulder will do. 

ESCALLOPED SWEETBREADS Mrs. B. K. Parker 

One pair sweetbreads; one can mushrooms; two cups of cream; 
butter size of an egg; one tablespoonful flour. Parboil sweetbreads 
twenty minutes then chop rather fine ; add mushrooms and chop. Put 
butter in spider and let it melt and as it begins to brown, add the flour 
and stir; then add cream, stirring all the time to prevent lumps. Put 
in the sweetbreads and mushrooms and let cook a few minutes. Add 
one teaspoonful Worcestershire sauce and pour mixture in baking 
dish. Put cracker crumbs and lumps of butter on top and bake half 
an hour. 

CREAMED SWEETBREADS 

WITH TOMATO SAUCE Mrs. W. D. Hurlbut 

Parboil sweetbreads in acidulated salt water, cook slowly for 
twenty minutes; drain, plunge into cold water. Make a rich cream 
sauce, separate sweetbreads and mix with the cream sauce; put in 
ramekins, cover with bread crumbs ; in the center place a tablespoon- 
ful tomato sauce; put in oven and bake until crumbs are brown; 
place a sprig of parsley on top and serve. 

CHICKEN A LA KING Mrs. W. C. Thorbus 

Heat two tablespoonfuls butter until it bubbles; add one chopped 
green pepper; let cook slowly for three minutes, then add one table- 
spoonful flour ; salt and pepper to taste and enough rich milk to make 
a smooth thickened sauce; when thoroughly done add two cupfuls 
cooked chicken and let it heat through. Mushrooms may be added. 

CHICKEN NOODLES AND MUSHROOMS Mrs. W. D. Hurlbut 

Pick the meat from the bones and cut in rather large pieces; 
add a can of mushrooms and the thickened chicken gravy. Boil noodles 
twenty minutes in salted water ; drain and add noodles to the chicken. 
Mix all together and let heat thoroughly. Serve with toast points. 

CHICKEN A LA CREOLE Mrs. R. Woods 

Clean and cut up two young chickens, sprinkle with salt and pep- 
per and fry in hot lard. When done, put in a dish and set aside. 
And now start your sauce. Fry an onion and add iour for thickening. 
When brown, add a can of sweet peppers, let fry a little, then add the 
tomatoes and a few bay leaves and a sprig of thyme. When the sauce 
is done throw in the fried chickens, but do not let the whole boil 
long. 

43 



Meats and Foivl 

liiuiiniiiniiinnininniininMnniiininniuiMinniiinnniuiiiimmiiiiiiiiiimiiiiiiiiimniiiiiiiiimiimniiiiiiiimiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiimimiiiiiiiiiHimiiiiin^ 

SWEET BREAD PATTIES 

Parboil one pair sweetbreads in boiling, salted, acidulated water, 
fifteen minutes. Drain and cut in one-half inch cubes. Add one-half 
the measure of small mushrooms, heated in the liquor in the can, 
drained, cooled and sliced, and one tablespoonful pimento cut into 
bits. Reheat in one and one-half cups of sauce (cream) and serve in 
patty shells. 

BAKED MACARONI AND CHICKEN Bertha Z. Bisbee 

Stew until tender a nice fat hen, in plenty of water. Pick meat 
off bones and shred rather finely. Boil one pound of macaroni or 
spaghetti twenty minutes in plenty of water to which has been added 
a teaspoonful of salt. Drain as dry as possible. Cover the bottom 
of a buttered baking dish with the macaroni, adding chicken and 
macaroni in alternate layers. Add one cup of cream to the gravy in 
which the chicken was cooked, salt and pepper to taste, and thicken 
with flour or corn starch. Pour enough over the macaroni and chicken 
to cover it. Bake in a slow oven until nicely browned on top. 

REAL COTTAGE CHICKEN Mrs. F. W. Waddell 

Boil one package of macaroni in salted water in the usual manner. 
Use three or four pounds chicken. Place in Dutch Oven whole. After 
browning, four tablespoonfuls of butter with a little parsley cover 
tightly and simmer forty-five minutes. Remove cover and add salt and 
pepper. "When sufficiently cooked, so that the fowl will slip from the 
bone, turn out fire and let cool. Remove bones and place in receptacle 
once more. Add one pint of pure cream, the macaroni previously 
cooked, and let boil up just three minutes, and let stand until ready 
to serve. Better to stand for an hour. 

BOUCHEES A LA REINE Mrs. Robert Woods 

Take good sized young hen and boil it. When done take all the 
meat, chop it, but not too fine and keep the "bouillon." Have ready 
some mushrooms and truffles cut in small pieces. Fry an onion in hot 
lard, add flour and brown well; in this throw your meat, mushrooms 
and truffles. Give two or three turns in the pan and add the bouillon 
to make the sauce. Do not make it too thin. Season with a little 
pepper. The small "pates" are ordered from the confectioner and are 
kept warm until needed. When the filling is done and you are ready 
to serve, fill each pate with the stew and send warm to the table. 

CHICKEN IN ASPIC Mrs. E. S. Bailey 

Draw one large chicken; boil until meat drops from bones and 
there is about one pint of liquid. Chop chicken and add a teaspoon- 
ful of salt and one-half teaspoonful pepper; also one tablespoonful of 
celery salt. Hard boil three eggs and soak one-half package gelatine 
five minutes and add to hot liquid. Chill mold and put in layer of 
chicken and three eggs and put balance of chicken in. Then pour the 
liquid on mold and chill. 

44 



Meats and Foivl 

lliiilililiiiiimmiiiimiiiiiimiiiiiiiiiitiiitiiiiiiiiiiiiniiiiiiiiiiiiiiitinniiniiiiiiii iiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiitiitiiiiiiiiiiitiitiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiriiiiiriiiiiiiriiiiiiiuiiiiHiiiiinriniiii 

CHICKEN TERRAPIN FOR SIX PEOPLE Mrs. J. P. Cobb 

One cup of chicken cut the size of an egg ; one cnp of canned mush- 
rooms ; make a cream sauce of the chicken stock ; when this is boiled 
up, add the chicken and mushrooms, yolk of one egg beaten, one tea- 
spoonful of Worcestershire sauce, teaspoonful sherry. Serve on platter 
with whipped cream or brown with bread crumbs. 

SPANISH CHICKEN Mrs. Lester Tennant 

Cut up two chickens, about five pounds in all; good fat yellow 
hens are the best. Put in a good sized pot and put in cold water 
enough to cover about two inches over all; cover and let heat very 
slowly; stew until meat can be picked from the bones. When the 
liquor the chicken is cooked in becomes cold, remove all fat and save 
to make stew in. Cut up six fair sized potatoes; one large onion; two 
large green peppers ; one clove of garlic ; one can of mushrooms ; one 
can tomatoes ; one can of peas ; one bottle of little stuffed olives. Re- 
move meat from chicken bones, then put in tomatoes, potatoes, peas, 
etc., in the liquor. Cut each mushroom through and add one wineglass 
each of olive oil and good white wine; three fair sized bay leaves; a 
large pinch of thyme ; a few sprigs of parsley ; salt ; celery salt ; black 
pepper and tobasco sauce to taste. When potatoes are done, add one 
large tablespoonful butter, put in the chicken meat and the stew is 
ready to serve. Have plenty of toast to serve chicken on. This will 
serve sixteen people and may be made the day before. 

CURRY OF CHICKEN EN CASSEROLE Mrs. W. P. Hilliard 

Clean, singe, dress and cut up a three and one-half pound chicken 
as for fried chicken ; melt one-third cup butter in an iron frying pan ; 
sprinkle chicken with salt and pepper ; arrange in hot frying pan and 
cook ten minutes, turning so as to brown evenly; add giblets; con- 
tinue cooking ten minutes longer. Arrange chickens in a hot casserole 
with one thinly sliced onion ; one-half tablespoonful salt, and broth or 
boiling water to cover; cover casserole and simmer in oven until 
chicken is tender. Remove chicken; strain liquor; melt one-fourth 
cup butter ; add two tablespoonfuls flour, mixed with two tablespoon- 
fuls curry powder; stir until smooth. Add strained liquor (there 
should be two cups) ; one-third cup currant jelly and salt to season. 
Turn one-half of sauce into casserole; arrange chicken over sauce 
and cover vsdth remaining sauce. Serve in casserole. Serve boiled 
rice with chicken curry. 

SALMI OF DUCK Mrs. S. E. Baumgardner 

Cut cold roast duck in pieces and heat in the following sauce: 
One tablespoonful butter; one small onion chopped fine; a stalk of 
celery and one sliced carrot; saute until brown then add one table- 
spoonful flour; two cups water; a bayleaf ; a spray of parsley; a few 
cloves and salt and pepper; let cook a few minutes. Strain, put in 
the duck ; add six olives sliced lengthwise ; a small can of mushrooms, 
cut in two ; let all heat and serve. 

45 



Meats and Foxirl 

tniinipi iiiiiiiiiriiiinriiiiit i i iiiiiniiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiilllllllllilllllllllllliliniiliiniiiiiiiiiiiiillilllitltllltinililiiiillllillllliliililliilliiiiiiliiiiiiiiiitiiniiiiiiiiiD 

CREOLE CHICKEN 

Cut two chickens in pieces for serving; sprinkle with salt and 
pepper. Melt one-half cup butter; add one-half cup finely chopped 
onion ; add chickens, saute a golden brown, turning chickens to evenly 
brown; remove chickens; add one-half cup flour; stir until well 
blended; then pour on two cups chicken stock and two cups tomato 
puree; one mild red pepper, finely chopped; one-half can mushrooms, 
drained and thinly sliced; one cup finely cut celery; season with salt 
and pepper. Add chickens and simmer until tender. Dispose on hot 
serving platter; surround with sauce; garnish with parsley. 

CHICKEN CURRY WITH MUSHROOMS 

IN CHAFING DISH Mrs. M. Regan 

One medium sized can of boneless chicken ; one-half can of French 
mushrooms; one heaping teaspoonful Indian currypowder; one large 
tablespoonful of butter; two tablespoonfuls of sifted flour and two cups 
milk. Put butter in chafing dish, when melted add flour; then milk 
slowly, and salt and pepper to taste. When creamy add chicken cut 
fine and chopped mushrooms; stir constantly until heated thoroughly 
and just before serving add curry powder. Eat on hot toast. 

SQUAB EN CASSEROLE Mrs. W. D. Hurlbut 

Wash squabs and stuff with boiled rice in which the cooked, 
minced giblets of the squabs have been mixed ; place in casserole and 
pour a little melted butter over each squab ; sprinkle with salt and pep- 
per and onion salt. Use the water in which the giblets were cooked 
for stock, there should be one cup. Put in oven and bake until tender. 

PIGEON PIE Mrs. Culbertson 

Dress, clean and truss six young, fat pigeons. Brown them richly 
in tried out salt pork fat. Put in a Dutch oven or kettle, cover with 
boiling water. Add two stalks celery, broken in pieces; a bit of bay 
leaf; one-half teaspoonful pepper-corns; one onion sliced; six slices 
of carrot; two sprays parsley and simmer five to six hours or until 
tender. Add one-half tablespoonful salt last hour of cooking. Re- 
move pigeons; strain liquid and thicken with one-fourth cup butter, 
cooked one minute with one-fourth cup flour, stirring constantly, until 
gravy is smooth. Arrange pigeon in a deep baking dish; pour over 
gravy and cover with a baking powder crust, and bake in a hot oven. 

A GOOD IMITATION OF 

MARYLAND FRIED CHICKEN Mrs. J. G. Sherer 

It may be made from rabbit. Choose a young tender rabbit; cut 
it into pieces of desired size; put pieces in a pot, cover with boiling 
water, and parboil gently for twenty minutes ; dip each piece in flour, 
egg and cracker crumbs and fry in deep fat until a rich brown. 
Evaporate by boiling some of the water in which the meat was boiled. 
Use some of it with milk in making "cream gravy." 

46 



Meats and Fowl 

iiimimiiiiiiiiiminiimiminimiiiHiinmimiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiimmiiiiiiiiiiiimimiiiiiiniiiniMiHiniuiiiiiiniuiininniii 

RABBIT STEW Mrs. J. Q. Sherer 

Rub the inside of a saucepan with a dose of garlic; put in pieces 
of hare left; add three-quarters cup of stewed tomatoes; two raw 
carrots, cut into small cubes ; one small onion, sliced ; a teaspoonful 
of chopped parsley, and about a cup of hot water. Cover tightly and 
cook until the potatoes are tender (and carrots). Thicken and serve 
in a border of steamed rice and serve with tiny dumplings. 

BELGIAN HARE EN CASSEROLE Mrs. J. G. Sherer 

Separate a dressed hare into pieces of desired shape ; rub each 
piece with a little lemon juice and oil which have been stirred together. 
Let the meat stand covered a few hours; sprinkle with paprika and 
brown each piece in a little fat in a "sizzling hot" frying pan. Some 
use two or three slices of fat bacon cut into small pieces for the brown- 
ing. When golden brown, put the meat in the casserole, cover with 
boiling water; cover and place in a very moderate oven. At the end 
of half an hour add two cups of stock or hot water ; one tablespoonful 
of lemon juice, or vinegar, a bit of bay leaf and two teaspoonfuls 
of onion juice. Cook in a moderate oven about three hours. Bring 
to the table without removing the cover. And if you have any of the 
Belgian Hare en Casserole left, make for lunch the next day, the 
savory little Eabbit Stew. 

CHOP SUEY Mrs. J. G. Sherer 

One pound veal ; one pound pork ; one can mushrooms ; eight stalks 
celery ; fifteen onions ; two tablespoonfuls molasses ; little flour on top. 
Cut meat in small pieces and simmer about twenty minutes ; add mush- 
rooms and molasses; then celery and onions. Cook slowly until ten- 
der. Sprinkle a little flour over it and mix well; then salt, paprika 
and about three tablespoonfuls or more (to taste) of chop suey sauce. 
Simmer meat without water ; serve with boiled rice. 

CHOP SUEY Mrs. C. S. Junge 

Cut tender, fresh, lean pork, chicken, veal or all of these into 
thin, inch squares and saute well in bacon fat. Have ready one-half 
as much in bulk of celery ; cut in inch pieces and an onion ; saute these 
in same fat. After this, saute mushrooms; put altogether and barely 
cover with hot water, chicken or veal broth. Add Chinese potatoes and 
sprouted barley, if they can be procured; add one tablespoonful of 
molasses; one teaspoonful of salt; one teaspoonful of Chinese Soy; 
a dash of pepper and put in cooker for three hours or more. 

CHOP SUEY Mrs. W. F. Barnard 

One pound pork from shoulder ; one pound veal from leg ; fry one- 
half hour in a little fat. When brown, add a little water and cook ten 
minutes, and add one cup celery cut up; one onion, cut up. When 
nearly done, sprinkle with flour enough to thicken, add two table- 
spoonfuls of molasses. Serve with rice. 

47 



Meats and Foivl 

iiniiiiitiiriiiiiiniiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiniiiiiiiin iiniiiiriiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiniiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiriiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiriiiiiiiiiriiiiiiiiiiiiiiiriiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiii 

CHESTNUT STUFFING Mrs. S. E. Baumgardner 

Shell and blanch four cupfuls French chestnuts; cook in boiling 
salted water until tender ; put through a ricer ; season with salt, pepper 
and a little nutmeg; two tablespoonfuls butter and one-half cupful 
of cream. Add this to your regular bread mixture for stuffing fowl. 

CHESTNUT STUFFING 

Shell and blanch French chestnuts, there should be two cups. 
Cook in boiling salted water until soft. Drain, mash and pass through 
a potato ricer; add one-four cup butter; one teaspoonful salt; one- 
eighth teaspoonful pepper; a few grains nutmeg and one-half cup 
cream. Melt one-fourth cup butter, pour over one cup soft bread 
crumbs; mix well; combine mixtures and use as filling for turkey, 
capon or guinea chicken. 

OYSTER DRESSING FOR FOWLS Mrs. W. S. Kiskaddon 

For an eight or ten-pound turkey cut the brown crust from slices 
of stale bread until you have as much as the inside of a pound loaf. 
Put into a suitable dish and pour tepid water over it; take up a 
handful at the time and squeeze it hard and dry with both hands, 
placing it as you go along in another dish ; now when all is pressed 
dry, toss it all up lightly through your fingers; now add pepper and 
salt — about a tablespoonful — also powdered summer savory and sage, 
and one pint of oysters drained and slightly chopped. For geese and 
ducks the dressing may be made the same. 

RICE DRESSING FOR DUCK OR GOOSE Mrs. H. P. E. Hafer 

Boil one cup of rice tender. Chop one stalk celery; two onions; 
one outside of green pepper ; a little piece of garlic ; fry in butter and 
add boiled rice. 



48 



Meats and Towl 

iiiniiiiiiiiiiniNniniiuiininniiiiniiiniinmimiiuiiiMnimniinniiHiiHiinniiiiniHiiimininHiniinHHiiriiinniiiniiinjiiniiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiJiiiiiniiiiiiiiiiiiniiiiiiiniiiiiii 



49 



Meats and Fovtrl 

iiiNuiiiiiiniiiiiiiiiiiniiuuniiiuuiunMnnnniiMuiniinniniuMuiiiiniiHnniuiuiniiiniiuniiiiniiininiinijiiuuiiiiiiiiiiiinimiimniimmiiiiiiiiMiiimiiiiliiiin^ 



60 



SAUCES 



HOLLANDAISE SAUCE Mrs. A. Donald Campbell 

One tablespoonful flour and one teaspoonful butter; mix over 
fire until smooth; add, gradually, one pint of boiling water, until all 
is the consistency of cream. Boil for two or three minutes and season 
with one salt spoon of salt ; one-half teaspoonful mustard ; one-quarter 
teaspoonful pepper. Take from fire and add yolks of two eggs, well 
beaten; mixing all until smooth. Add slowly, three tablespoonfuls oil 
and one tablespoonful vinegar. Lemon juice instead of vinegar makes 
it much more delicate. 

HOLLANDAISE SAUCE Belle Shaw 

Two tablespoonfuls butter; one tablespoonful flour; one-half pint 
boiling water; one-half teaspoonful salt; add gradually yolks of two 
eggs, well beaten ; juice of one-half lemon ; one-half teaspoonful onion 
juice ; cook over hot water. Be careful not to get sauce too thick. 

TARTAR SAUCE NO. 1 Mrs. Carl S. Junge 

Sweet cucumber pickles ; green peppers and onion. Chop fine and 
mix with mayonnaise salad dressing. 

TARTAR SAUCE NO. 2 Mrs. Carl S. Junge 

Tablespoonful mixed capers; tablespoonful cucumber pickles, 
chopped; teaspoonful parsley; teaspoonful Tarragon; teaspoonful 
mixed mustard ; one-half pint mayonnaise dressing. 

RICH GRAVY WITHOUT MEAT Mrs. T. M. Butler 

Heat a sufficient amount of lard or drippings in a skillet into which 
two or three tablespoonfuls of flour have been stirred until a very 
light brown; then add two-thirds milk to one-third water and season 
with salt and pepper, adding a level teaspoonful of extract of beef 
and stir until completely dissolved. 

A VEGETABLE SAUCE 

One-half teaspoonful kitchen boquet; one level tablespoonful 
flour; two tablespoonfuls butter; one-fourth teaspoonful salt; two cup- 
fuls hot milk ; two egg yolks ; blend flour and butter ; add salt and milk 
and boil until smooth and of the desired thickness. Then gradually 
add the yolks of eggs and kitchen boquet. This may be served on 
any vegetable desired. 

51 



Sauces 

iiiiiiii iiijiii nil iiiiiiiiiii iiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiii II iiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiimiiiiiiiiiiiiimiiiiiiiiimiiiiiiuiiiiiiiiimiiiiiiiimiiin 

CREOLE SAUCE 

One teaspoonful Kitchen Boquet; one onion; five shallots; two 
green peppers ; one tablespoonful butter ; one tablespoonf ul flour ; four 
large tomatoes; one-half bean garlic; one teaspoonful salt; one tea- 
spoonful sugar; six canned mushrooms; one-half teaspoonful parsley. 
Slice fine onion, shallots and pepper. Cook in butter to a light brown ; 
stir constantly. Then the garlic minced, and the flour. Stir all to- 
gether and add tomatoes, seasoning, mushrooms, and parsley. Cook 
twenty minutes, stirring occasionally. Just before serving, add one 
teaspoonful Kitchen Boquet. 

MUSHROOM SAUCE 

Three tablespoonfuls Kitchen Boquet; one-third cupful butter; 
one-third cupful flour; one teaspoonful salt; dash cayenne; one tea- 
spoonful onion juice ; two cupfuls milk ; one can mushrooms. Melt the 
butter, add flour and milk gradually, stirring all the while. When 
cooked, add the salt, cayenne, onion and kitchen boquet. Drain and 
chop mushrooms; add to sauce and cook three minutes. 

TOMATO CELERY SAUCE 

Two teaspoonfuls kitchen boquet; one quart tomatoes; one tea- 
spoonful sugar; three pepper-corns; one tablespoonful butter; one 
head of celery ; one onion ; one green pepper ; one bay leaf ; four cloves ; 
salt and pepper; one tablespoonful flour. Place the tomatoes in a 
saucepan ; add the celery cut up into inch lengths ; the onion slices and 
spices. Simmer slowly for twenty minutes, pass through a sieve; 
return to the fire, and stew down until you have one cupful of puree. 
Blend the fiour and butter together in a double boiler; stir in the 
tomato-celery puree, and stir until smooth and thick; season with 
kitchen boquet, salt and pepper. If too thick, add a little water or 
stock. This is fine to serve with meat loaf, salmon loaf or rice cro- 
quettes, etc. 

SAUCE BERNAISE 

Heat a granite saucepan slightly and break into it four eggs. 
Beat the eggs briskly over a slow fire, but do not let them boil; mix 
four tablespoonfuls hot water and two tablespoonfuls beef extract, 
and as the eggs begin to cook stir in the mixture, adding the juice of 
one lemon, one tablespoonful onion juice and one teaspoonful Tarra- 
gon vinegar, salt and pepper. "When this is well mixed pour on beef- 
steak and serve. 

MINT SAUCE 

One bunch mint ; one tablespoonful sugar ; three-fourths cup vine- 
gar. Rinse the mint in cold water ; chop very fine ; dissolve the sugar 
in the vinegar ; add the mint ; let it stand for one hour to infuse before 
using. If the same is wanted hot, heat the vinegar and stir in the mint 
just before using. 

62 



Sauces 

iiiiriiiiiMrMiiiiiniiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiniiiiiimiiiiiiiiiniiiiMiiinniniiHiiHiiiNiiiininiiiiininiiiMiiniiiniJinniiiininiinniiiiiiniimmimimmiiiiiiiiiiiiniin^ 

SAUCE ALLEMANDE Mrs. Bertha C. Hansen 

Four tablespoonfuls butter; four tablespoonfuls flour; one egg 
yolk; one cup white stock; one cup cream; one-half teaspoonful salt; 
few grains pepper. Make same as a thin white sauce. Just before 
serving, add the yolk of one egg and cook slightly. 

HORSE-RADISH DRESSING 

FOR ROAST BEEF Mrs. E. D. Gotchy 

To a cup of grated horse-radish, add two tablespoonfuls of sugar; 
one-half teaspoonful salt; one-half cup thick, sweet, cream. Mix the 
ingredients thoroughly, then add vinegar to taste. 



63 



Sauces 

iimiiiiiiiimimiiiimiiniinniHiiiiiiiinmnmniiiii iiiiiiiiiiiiiiimmmiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiniiiiiiiimiiii i iiriiiiiinrmiiinitmiiiiiiiiiiiiiii iniiiiiiiiiiiiiiiii 



54 



VEGETABLES 



'07i, muckle is the powerful grace 
TJiat lies in herhs." 



A PORTO RICAN DINNER Mrs. G. W. Plummer 

One quart cooked red kidney beans (canned beans are good and 
save fire) ; four good sized ripe tomatoes (or the solid tomatoes from 
a can); four medium sized onions; four green sweet peppers; one- 
fourth pound nut meats (pecans, almonds or English walnuts are best) ; 
two dozen green olives ; salt to taste. 

Process : If tomatoes ai'e fresh, skin and put in a chopping bowl 
with onions and peppers, which last should have seeds and white fiber 
first removed ; chop all until about size of a lima bean. Put into skillet 
a heaping tablespoonful of drippings, from ham or bacon preferred; 
when hot add chopped vegetables and cook until all are soft and well 
blended. About fifteen minutes before serving add nut meats and 
olives cut into strips. In the meantime, heat the beans by themselves ; 
turn all together and cook ten minutes, when it is ready to serve. 

Service: Half an hour before time to serve, wash well, enough 
rice to make a border around your chop platter. Put it into gallopin 
boiling water, quite heavily salted ; water should be at least four times 
quantity of rice. Boil until barely done; drain in a coUander and 
set to drain in the mouth of the oven for five minutes. 

Dispose around the edge of the platter; pour the bean mixture 
(which should be moist), in the middle, garnish with a wreath of pars- 
ley between rice and beans. 

This, with a green salad and French dressing is an abundant and 
satisfying dinner. No meat should be served. 

STUFFED POTATOES 

Select large uniform sized potatoes. Scrub them with a vegetable 
brush. Bake in a hot oven, the temperature of the oven should be such 
that it will bake a potato of medium size in forty to forty-five minutes. 
Remove a thin slice from the side lengthwise of potatoes; scoop out 
the pulp, pass through the ricer; add two tablespoonfuls of butter or 
bacon fat; moisten with hot milk; add two tablespoonfuls each finely 
chopped chives or onion. Season with salt and pepper, beat thor- 
oughly and return to the shells, using pastry bag and tube, brush over 
with slightly beaten egg and return to oven to brown delicately. 

55 



Vegetables 

iiiiiimiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiuiluiiiilinilliMinniiininiiniiinninMirniiUMMiniiriiMirnMiiiiiMniiiiMiiiiiriiniiiiniiiiitiiMiininniiiitiiniiiininiiiimmimiiiiiim 

A * ' DIFFERENT ' ' DINNER Mrs. G. W. Plummer 

A fine, firm head of cauliflower; enough rice to form a border 
for your chop platter; four tablespoonfuls grated or shredded ripe 
cheese; one teacupful rich milk; two tablespoonfuls bacon drippings. 
Garnish with blanched lettuce leaves, canned pimento and parsley. 

Process : "Wash, trim and put to boil in a large granite or alum- 
inum kettle, the whole head of cauliflower in plenty of salted water. 
Do not cover. When about half done, put into an iron skillet two table- 
spoonfuls of bacon drippings and when smoking hot turn in the dry 
rice which has previously been well washed and dried on a clean 
towel. Parch this rice in the drippings, stirring constantly until a 
golden brown. Then dip the water in which the cauliflower boils, 
spoonful by spoonful, into the rice ; as it absorbs the water add more 
until the rice is puffed, dry and thoroughly done; a little onion may 
be cooked in with rice if liked. In the meantime make a fine, thick 
white sauce, using butter and twice the quantity of flour; cook but 
do not brown; add milk and rub smooth; add shredded cheese, red 
pepper and salt; cook to a smooth masking sauce. 

Service: Put cauliflower, unbroken, in center of platter; mask 
with sauce and sprinkle with grated cheese. Around the flower dis- 
pose the lettuce in such a way as to simulate a growing head. Encircle 
this with border of rice and put an outside border of parsley. The 
pimento should be cut in strips and laid up the sides of flower inside 
lettuce leaves. 

SUNDAY NIGHT SUPPER DISH Mrs. G. W. Plummer 

"Wash round, solid, medium sized tomatoes (one for each ser- 
vice) and cut in half but do not skin. Insert slivers of onion in each 
half tomato on cut side. Dip cut side in egg, beaten with a little 
water, seasoned with salt and paprika; then in rolled bread crumbs 
or rolled shredded wheat biscuit. Two tablespoonfuls of bacon drip- 
pings heated to a smoke in skillet or on cake griddle. Put in tomatoes, 
cut side down, and fry until a golden brown; then turn carefully; 
reduce heat and cook gently until cooked but not broken. Remove 
to platter and place on each a generous spoonful of the following 
sauce : 

Sauce : Add dripping to that in skillet in which tomatoes were 
cooked to make two tablespoonfuls; add four tablespoonfuls flour; 
one thin slice of onion and cook four minutes; add two cups milk; 
celery salt, salt and pepper and when incorporated add one-half cup- 
ful grated or shredded cheese and cook until smooth. 

CUBAN RICE Mrs. "W. F. Barnard 

One and one-half pounds fresh pork, ground ; one onion, chopped ; 
one egg ; salt and pepper. Make into little round balls. One quart of 
tomatoes, strained. Boil meat balls in tomato jnice for one hour. Cook 
rice and serve as a vegetable, pouring meat and tomatoes around it on 
platter. 

56 



Vegetables 

iiiiiiiniiiiimiiiiininiiiiniiniiiiiMiirnnnnnniiiniiiinniniiMniirniiMitniiiiniiriiniiNiinniijriininiinHiiininnniiiuiiiMiiiiiiiiiiiiiniiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiniiiiiiiiiniiiiiiit 

INDIAN VEGETABLE CUERY Mrs. Jean Wallace Butler 

One pound can baked beans; one pound can lima beans; one 
pound can green string beans; one pound can wax beans; two pound 
can tomatoes; eight large onions; one heaping teaspoonful Cross & 
Blackwell's curry; one tablespoonful salad oil. Remove all vegetables 
from cans ; heat the beans in large cooking vessel ; heat tomatoes sepa- 
rately, seasoning very strongly with salt and papper. Slice onions and 
boil in water. When sufficiently cooked, add onions and tomatoes to 
other vegetables. Fry curry in salad oil to a nice brown. Add to the 
vegtables, and simmer half an hour. While this is simmering, boil 
rice to serve on plate with curry. This serves ten people. In winter 
time, for large family you can double recipe, and keep frozen. Better 
every time reheated. No bread, butter or anything else is served with 
this, except Indian chutney. 

POTATO PUFF BALLS 

Scoop out the inside of hot baked potatoes, force the pulp through 
a ricer, there should be two cups. Add two tablespoonfuls butter; 
moisten with rich cream ; season with salt and paprika, while beating 
constantly; add one slightly beaten egg yolk and one-half teaspoon- 
ful finely chopped parsley; cook one minute, stirring constantly. 
Remove from range and fold in the stiffly beaten white of one egg. 
Shape in balls and roll in finely chopped seasoned nut meats; place 
on buttered pan and brown delicately in the oven. Arrange around 
broiled whitefish. 

POTATO FLUFF Mrs. W. D. Hurlbut 

Pass enough hot boiled potatoes through a ricer to make three 
cups; season with pepper, salt, a big piece of butter and half a cup of 
cream ; beat an egg very light, beat it in the potato ; turn into a but- 
tered baking dish; sprinkle bread crumbs on top and bake until 
browned. 

STUFFED SWEET POTATOES Mrs. Louis Geyler 

Bake three large sweet potatoes; cut in halves lengthwise; care- 
fully scoop out pulp and press through a ricer. Reserve the shells. 
Season with one-half teaspoonful of salt; one-fourth teaspoonful 
paprika; one-half tablespoonful powdered sugar; three tablespoonfuls 
butter; and one-third cup hot cream or rich milk. Beat them thor- 
oughly, then stir in one-half cup finely chopped almonds, blanched; 
refill shells. Cut marshmallows in four pieces and cover each portion. 
Bake in a moderate oven until heated through and marshmallows are 
delicately browned. 

FRENCH FRIED SWEET POTATOES Mrs. A. M. Cameron 

Wash and peel very large sweet potatoes and cut lengthwise; 
as you would white potatoes; fry in the same manner and sprinkle 
lightly with salt; serve at once. 

57 



Vegetables 

iiiiHininiiiininiiNnniiniiniiiiiiinnnniMiiiininiininniiiiininnHniiniiiinniJtiiininiMiiiniiniNniniiiiinnHiiiiHnnniiNnniiniiiiiniiMtiiiniiiiiimiiiiMiMiiiiiimm^^ 

SWEET POTATO CROQUETTES 

Two cupfuls of mashed sweet potatoes; one cupful of hot milk; 
two eggs; one teaspoonful salt; two tablespoonfuls of butter; bread 
crumbs; one tablespoonful of butter. Beat the potatoes and milk, 
gradually stir in the melted butter; salt and one of the eggs well 
beaten. Form into croquette balls; dip in beaten egg and bread 
crumbs. Fry in deep fat until golden brown. Drain on paper and 
serve with cream sauce. 

POTATO SURPRISE 

Prepare a rich mashed potato in the usual way, using six medium- 
sized potatoes and hot cream instead of milk. Beat until fluffy, then 
add one tablespoonful each finely chopped chives or onion juice and 
one tablespoonful parsley ; add one-third cup finely minced ham. Beat 
again and turn into a buttered baking dish, piling it well in the 
center. Cover lightly with buttered cracker crumbs, well seasoned 
with salt and pepper. Bake in oven fifteen minutes. Serve in baking 
dish. 

MASHED POTATOES WITH GREEN PEPPERS 

AND ONIONS Mrs. W. D. Hurlbut 

Pass through a ricer six large hot boiled potatoes; add two 
tablespoonfuls butter and gradually one-third cupful hot thin cream; 
season with salt and whip until light and fluffy. Parboil a green pep- 
per (removing seeds and veins) eight minutes; drain and chop fine; 
mix with two tablespoonfuls finely chopped onion; add gradually to 
potatoes and heat again. Serve immediately with roast goose, duck 
or pork. 

JUMBALAYA Mrs. M. T. Wagner 

One minced onion fried in butter; one-half cup of ham minced; 
one cup of rice; four cups of tomato juice (if there is not juice enough 
in a can of tomatoes to make the required quantity, add water) ; one 
teaspoonful curry powder; one teaspoonful thyme; a few bay leaves 
broken up fine; three teaspoonfuls salt and a few grains of cayenne. 
Mix all together and bake one and one-quarter hours. 

SAVORY RICE Mrs. W. R. McGhee 

Cook one cupful rice, well washed, in three quarts boiling salted 
water until partly done ; drain ; add to rice two cupfuls well seasoned 
chicken broth ; put into double boiler and let it steam until rice is soft 
and stock is absorbed. Stir in one-fourth cup butter and one table- 
spoonful finely chopped chives or onion ; if onion is used then add one- 
half tablespoonful chopped parsley. 

EASY RICE CROQUETTES Mrs. C. A. Carscadin 

Two cups boiled rice (salted) ; one beaten egg; grated rind of one 
lemon ; add to rice, roll in flour ; fry in hot lard. Lay on brown paper 
and sprinkle well with sugar. Have rice as soft as possible. 

58 



Vegetables 

miiiiiiiniimmiiiiiriiiimnMnnniininiHiiiuiiniiiinutniunmiiiiininninniiiiiniinuuiuiMiniiiiiniiiiiiiiiiiiiuiiiiiinniiimiiiiiiiiiMiiiiiiiiuimiminiiiiiiiii^ 

STUFFED TOMATOES WITH SHRIMP Mrs. J. E. Kelly 

Use six large tomatoes, and scrape out pulp; put little butter in 
pan and fry the pulp with one small onion, cut fine, and one can of 
shrimps; add one egg (beaten), and enough bread crumbs to make soft 
filling. Season with salt and pepper. Fill tomatoes, and sprinkle dry 
bread crumbs, or cracker crumbs, over top and small piece of butter 
on each. Bake fifteen minutes and serve hot. 

RICE WITH TOMATOES AND GREEN PEPPERS 

Finely chop one Bermuda onion, two green peppers ; mix with one 
cup minced raw ham. Saute ten minutes (without browning) in four 
tablespoonfuls butter. Add one cup of washed rice and three cups 
of chicken stock or beef broth. Simmer one-half hour stirring occa- 
sionally with a fork. Then add four tomatoes peeled and chopped; 
one-half tablespoonful salt ; a few grains cayenne and one-fourth tea- 
spoonful paprika. Cover and cook over hot water until rice is tender. 
Serve as a vegetable. 

SPAGHETTI— ITALIAN STYLE Mrs. J. H. Shanley 

One package spaghetti, unbroken, boiled until tender, then let 
cold water run through it. Fill iron spider with sliced onions and 
cook until tender, not brown; add two small green peppers, chopped 
fine ; one can mushrooms and one pound chopped steak. Cook together 
long enough to season, about ten minutes. Put in with the spaghetti 
in a baking dish, and add one quart tomatoes, strained. Mix thor- 
oughly and sprinkle with grated cheese, viz: layer of spaghetti, then 
cheese, etc. Also put cheese on top to form crust. Bake until heated 
through. 

ITALIAN SPAGHETTI Mrs. C. A. Jennings 

One heaping tablespoonful butter; two medium-sized onions: one 
bead of garlic ; one can tomatoes ; two-thirds package spaghetti. Cut 
onions and garlic fine and put in saucepan to fry with butter a light 
brown. Add the tomatoes, strained and let simmer one hour. Put 
spaghetti in large vessel of salted boiling water and keep boiling 
fast for forty minutes. Have hot dish ready; into this put spaghetti 
and tomatoes and a small cup of grated Herkimer or other snappy 
American cheese. Mix thoroughly; serve with small dish of same 
cheese to springle over spaghetti at table. 

SCALLOPED TOMATOES Alice Clock 

One No. 3 size tin of tomatoes ; one medium-sized onion ; six slices 
bacon ; two cups fresh bread crums. Chop the onion and bacon, fry to 
crisp brown; place first a layer of tomatoes, then a layer of bread 
crumbs, then a layer of onion and bacon; over which salt and pepper 
is shaken. Repeat layers until all material is used. Bake forty-five 
minutes in moderate oven. 

59 



Vegetables 

liiiiniiiinMniiiiiiiniiiimiiiiiiiiiiiiiMiiiiiiiiiiilliiiitiiiiiiMiiiiiilliiiiinininHninniiitntinMiiiiriiiiiiniiinniiiiniininriinnMiiiniiiimmiiiiiiiiiimin^ 

ITALIAN MACARONI Mrs. W. I. Clock 

One-half pound streaky salt pork, no bones, very little lean meat; 
three onions; a suspicion of garlic; one teacup of chopped parsley; 
one No. 3 can of tomatoes ; four heaping teaspoonfuls granulated 
sugar ; one teaspoonful salt ; one-fourth teaspoonful pepper ; two table- 
spoonfuls of grated Parmesan cheese ; one pound of spaghetti. Put 
finely chopped pork, onions and parsley into frying pan and fry to nice 
brown; add sugar, salt, pepper and cheese. At same time the above 
is cooking have the tomatoes heating in enameled saucepan ; also have 
water boiling ready to put spaghetti in, for it must actually boil twen- 
ty-five minutes to be tender. After the tomatoes have cooked about 
ten minutes, put through sieve and add to pork and onions and let all 
simmer while spaghetti cooks. Put spaghetti in collander to drain. 
Serve by placing a layer of spaghetti in deep dish, then sauce and 
cheese, and so on each layer until all material is used ; serve very hot. 

MACARONI Mrs. Gussie Enos 

Boil macaroni one-half hour. Put one pint milk ; one and one- 
half cups grated cheese ; one tablespoonful butter ; one tablespoonful 
flour; salt and pepper together and boil all until smooth. Put layer 
of macaroni and layer of sauce with sauce on top. Bake one-half hour. 

HOMINY CROQUETTES 

To one-half cup hominy (taken from a carton) ; add two cups 
hot stewed and strained tomato pulp ; cook in a double boiler until 
hominy is tender. Stir in two tablespoonfuls butter; three-fourths 
teaspoonful salt; one-fourth teaspoonful paprika. Spread mixture on 
a plate to cool. Then shape into balls the size of small lemons, roll 
in crumbs, dip in egg and again in crumbs and fry in hot deep fat. 
Drain on brown paper and serve with cheese sauce. 

HOMINY GRITS Mrs. W. D. Hurlbut 

Put two cupfuls of milk and two of water into a double boiler; 
add a little salt and one cupful of hominy grits ; let boil hard one hour ; 
do not stir. The moisture will all be absorbed and it will be light and 
creamy. Use as a vegetable or in place of potatoes. 

TOMATOES, CREOLE STYLE 

Wash and wipe the desired number of medium-sized tomatoes. 
Cut a slice from the blossom ends, scoop out pulp, sprinkle with salt 
in the inside, invert on plate, let stand one hour. Melt two table- 
spoonfuls butter, add two tablespoonfuls flour mixed with one-half 
teaspoonful salt, one-fourth teaspoonful paprika and few grains cay- 
enne. Stir until blended, then pour on slowly one-half cup cream. 
Stir until smooth and add one cup green corn, cut from cob, and mixed 
with one-half tablespoonful each red and green pepper, finely chopped. 
Flavor delicately with onion juice. Fill tomatoes, cover with buttered 
crumbs and bake in moderate oven until tomatoes and corn are tender. 

60 



Vegetables 

niiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiniiiniiiiiniiiiiiiiitiiiiriiinitiiiiiitiiii iiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiii iiiiimiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiniiiiiii ii iiiiiiiiiiiiiii ii 

TOMATOES ON HALF SHELL Mrs. R. McNeil 

Cut tomatoes in half without peeling. Place them in baking 
dish. Put in a piece of butter on each, and dust with salt and pepper. 
Put in oven and cook until tender. Have ready squares of toasted 
bread. On each place a half tomato and pour around white sauce 
and serve hot. 

BAKED TOMATOES Mrs. W. 0. King 

Select nice smooth tomatoes; slice off top and remove pulp and 
seeds. Rub this through collander. Add one-half cup of each bread 
and cracker crumbs, pepper, salt and minced onion to tomatoes with 
a little butter. Stuff tomatoes, place top on, using toothpicks; bake 
one hour in a moderate oven. 

FRIED TOMATOES Mrs. C. S. Junge 

Green or ripe tomatoes may be used. Slice and dip in flour. Place 
in skillet with plenty of bacon fat and a little butter. Fry until brown 
and lift carefully onto a platter. In the remaining fat stir a table- 
spoonful of flour, then pour a cup and a half of milk. When creamed, 
turn over tomatoes and serve. 

BAKED NOODLES Mrs. E. Lewis Phelps 

One box of home made noodles, boil until tender then drain. But- 
ter a baking dish; put in a layer of noodles; sprinkle with grated 
cheese and seasoning ; then another layer of noodles ; then two cups of 
cooked boiled ham chopped fine; chopped green pepper and chopped 
onion ; put the remainder of noodles on top and add cheese, etc. Beat 
up four or five eggs; add milk enough to cover all the noodles. Set 
pan into pan of water and bake slowly until eggs are done. Can add 
buttered cracker crumbs on top if liked. 

CORN PUDDING Helen M. Bailey 

Six ears corn ; two eggs ; one-half pint milk ; pinch salt ; pinch 
pepper; cut corn from cob, beat eggs, and add milk, eggs and sea- 
soning to corn. Bake until light brown. 

CORN OYSTERS Mrs. E. S. Smith 

Mix one pint of grated corn; three tablespoonfuls of milk; one 
teacup of flour; a piece of butter the size of an egg. Drop by des- 
sertspoonfuls into a little hot butter. Fry on both sides. 

CORN CROQUETTES 

One cupful of stewed or canned corn; one-half cupful of dried 
bread crumbs ; one-half cupful of milk ; one beaten egg ; one teaspoon- 
ful of salt; one teaspoonful of baking powder; one tablespoonful of 
flour. Chop corn, mix with bread crumbs, milk and other ingredients. 
Drop from spoon into deep fat and fry until light brown. 

61 



Vegetables 

uililliiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiMiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiniiiiiiiiiiiiriiiiiiiiiiiiiiniiiiuiiiMninuMiiiiiniMniiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiii^ 

GREEN PEPPERS STUFFED WITH RICE, 
TOMATOES AND NUT MEATS 

Cut a slice from the stem ends of six medium-sized mild, green 
peppers; remove seeds and veins; parboil in boiling water eight min- 
utes. Drain. Have ready one and one-half cups hot boiled rice ; mix 
with three-fourths cup thick tomato puree ; add one cup chopped Eng- 
lish walnut meats. Season with salt, pepper and a few grains of cay- 
enne; add one teaspoonful each finely chopped parsley and chives or 
onion. Fill peppers. Arrange on buttered dripping pan; cover with 
buttered cracker crumbs and bake in oven until heated through and 
crumbs are brown. 

GREEN PEPPERS STUFFED WITH ONIONS 

Parboil six green peppers eight minutes (discarding seeds and 
veins) in boiling water to cover. Drain, keep warm. Cover one-half 
dozen silver skin onions with boiling water, heat to boiling point and 
drain. Cover again, with boiling salted water and cook until tender, 
drain and finely chop, mix with one cup soft bread crumbs, add three 
tablespoonfuls melted butter, season highly with salt, pepper and one- 
half teaspoonful finely chopped parsley. Fill prepared peppers (if too 
dry add one tablespoonful cream) with mixture, cover with buttered 
crumbs, set them in buttered gem pans and bake in oven until peppers 
are tender and crumbs are brown. 

GREEN PEPPERS STUFFED WITH CORN Mrs. T. D. Caliger 

Select sweet green peppers of medium size ; cut a thick slice from 
stem ends; remove seeds and veins. Soak in salt water one hour, 
drain, and fill with following mixture. Put three cups of canned corn 
into a saucepan, with two tablespoonfuls finely chopped green pep- 
pers, butter and one tablespoonful of onion juice. Simmer slowly 
fifteen minutes, stirring often to prevent burning. Cover tops of pep- 
pers with buttered bread crumbs, and bake one-half hour in moderate 
oven. 

EGG PLANT AND SHRIMP Mrs. Ada Woods 

Boil a whole egg plant, cutting off the stem end. When done 
take off skin and put the inside to drain. Put a cup of stale bread 
crumbs, a grated onion, salt and pepper, tablespoonful parsley and a 
clove of garlic minced fine, in a skillet with two tablespoonfuls bacon 
drippings, and fry until brown ; add this to the egg plant, put in two 
dozen shrimps, broken up, and when all is well mixed put in the oven 
and brown. 

FRENCH FRIED EGG PLANT Mrs. A. M. Cameron 

Prepare egg plant in the usual way; drain and cut as you would 
potatoes for French fry ; sprinkle with salt, pepper and flour ; place in 
a frying basket and fry strips until crisp and a pretty brown; drain 
on brown paper. 

62 



Vegetables 

iniiiiiiiiiiiiiininiiniminiiinimiiiiiiiimiuiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiHriiniiMiinMiiininiiinuniriiiinniiiiiiinnniiirinniiiiiiinMiiiiiniiiitniiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiuiiiiiiiiiiiiiii iiiiniii 

BAKED STUFFED EGG PLANT 

Cut slice from stem end ; reserve for cover, scoop out inside, leav- 
ing a wall one-fourth inch thick, sprinkle inside with salt and pepper, 
finely chop pulp. Cook one-half onion, finely chopped, in one table- 
spoonful butter three minutes without browning, add three fresh mush- 
rooms, finely chopped, four tablespoonfuls finely chopped lean raw 
ham, season with salt, pepper; cook five minutes, stirring constantly. 
Add egg plant pulp, three-fourths cup soft bread crumbs, one-half 
teaspoonful finely chopped parsley. Mix well, refill shell, cover with 
buttered crumbs. Bake in moderate oven forty-five minutes. 

NEW STRING BEANS Mrs. W. D. Hurlbut 

Cut two thin slices of bacon crosswise in narrow shreds, using 
shears for this purpose. Saute to a delicate brown. Add two cups 
hot, cooked, well-drained string beans and one-half tablespoonful 
grated onion or onion juice. Shake the frying pan to thoroughly mix 
the ingredients, season with salt and pepper. Turn into hot serving 
dish. 

CREAMED PEAS AS AN ENTREE Mrs. C. A. Carscadin 

Cut with a cookie cutter a round of bread from a thick slice, then 
a ring with a doughnut cutter. Dip in melted butter and toast a deli- 
cate brown in the oven. Fill them with peas in cream sauce. 

FRENCH FRIED ONIONS Bertha Z. Bishee 

Peel onions, slice and separate rings. Beat an egg, white and 
yolk together ; salt and pepper to taste and stir in enough flour — about 
a tablespoonful — to make a thin batter. Pour over the onion rings, 
making sure that they are well coated, and fry a handful at a time 
in deep fat, which must be hot enough to brown quickly. Drain and 
serve covered with a napkin. 

BAKED SPANISH ONION Alice Clock 

Three Spanish onions ; two cups of fresh bread crumbs ; one pint 
milk; one heaping tablespoonful butter. Take greased baking dish. 
Place alternate layers of sliced onion, and bread crumbs, seasoning 
each layer with salt and pepper. When materials are used up, pour 
over the pint of milk ; and the butter cut in small pieces is placed on 
the top last. Bake slowly, until onion can be pierced easily. 

SCALLOPED CABBAGE Miss Kennedy 

Cut one-half of boiled cabbage in small pieces ; sprinkle with salt, 
pepper and one finely chopped pimento ; pour over one and one-fourth 
cups thin white sauce, mixed with one-third cup grated cheese. Mix 
well and turn into a buttered baking dish; cover with buttered and 
seasoned cracker crumbs. Place in oven and bake until crumbs are 
brown. 

63 



Vegetables 

iiiiiiiii iiiiiiiiiiiiii iiiiiiiiiiirii mill mil mmmmmmmmim mmmmimmmmmiiimmimmmmmm immmmmmimmmmi 

CABBAGE ROLLS Mrs. C. S. Junge 

Parboil in salt water the large leaves of a cabbage. Take them 
from the water and place singly on the cake board and pepper them. 
Mix half and half, chopped beef and pork and season. Make into rolls 
twice the size of an egg. Eound these roll several cabbage leaves and 
fasten with tooth picks. Place these in the skillet with two tablespoon- 
fuls of bacon fat or lard with a little butter. Turn in a small amount 
of water and cook covered over a slow fire. When water cooks off 
add more in small quantities for nearly an hour. Kemove tooth picks 
and serve. 

CAULIFLOWER AU GRATIN Miss June Baumgardner 

Boil cauliflower until tender; separate so that a flower will be in 
each ramekin. Make a white sauce and grate three tablespoonfuls 
yellow American cheese in it; when the cheese is melted pour over 
the vegetable in ramekin, put a few buttered bread crumbs on top 
and put in the oven to brown. 

PARSNIP SAUTE 

Wash parsnips and cook until tender in boiling water. Drain 
and cover with cold water; with the hands slip off the skins. Mash 
and rub through a strainer. Season pulp with salt, pepper and butter, 
shape in flat cakes and dredge with flour. Saute a golden brown in 
equal parts hot butter and chicken fat. 

FRIED SUMMER SQUASH 

Wash, wipe and cut tender squash in one-half inch slices, sprinkle 
with salt, pepper and dredge with flour, dip in egg, then in fine cracker 
crumbs, repeat and fry in deep, hot fat, drain and serve. 

CREAMED CELERY CABBAGE Mrs. H. Clay Calhoun 

Cut celery cabbage in inch lengths, boil until tender in salted 
water; drain and pour over a rich cream sauce. 

BAKED, STUFFED ARTICHOKES Mrs. Francis A. Sieber 

Six artichokes; four ounces fat pork; two cups chopped mush- 
rooms; two tablespoonfuls chopped shallots; one teaspoonful minced 
parsley; one tablespoonful flour; one tablespoonful butter; one-half 
cup spinach sauce ; one-half teaspoonful salt, a little pepper, nutmeg ; 
one cup broth; one glass white wine. Prepare artichokes, boil thirty 
minutes and drain. Mince pork and fry with shallots ; add mushrooms 
and parsley and simmer ten minutes. Blend with it the flour mixed 
with butter; add Spanish sauce and seasoning. Stuff artichokes, and 
tie each with string ; brown outside in a little olive oil, add the broth 
and wine. Cover and cook forty minutes in moderate oven. When 
they are ready to serve remove the strings and arrange on a hot 
platter and pour the sauce over them. Garnish with a whole mush- 
room on top of each. 

64 



Vegetables 

iiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiniiniiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiintniiiiiiiiriiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiir iiniiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiniiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiin 

MUSHROOMS Mrs. H. P. E. Hafer 

Peal one pound fresh mushrooms. Fry in butter slowly for three- 
quarters of an hour. Add two cups of soup stock and one-half cup of 
cream and thicken with flour. Serve on toast. 

STUFFED MUSHROOMS Mrs. K. Larson 

Brush twelve large mushrooms. Remove stems. Chop finely, and 
peel caps. Melt three tablespoonfuls butter, and one-half tablespoon- 
ful finely chopped shallot, and chopped stems. Then cook ten minutes. 
Add one and one-half tablespoonfuls of flour, chicken stock to mois- 
ten, a slight grating of nutmeg, and one-half teaspoonful finely 
chopped parsley, salt and pepper to taste. Cool mixture and fill 
caps, well rounding over top. Cover with buttered cracker crumbs, 
and bake fifteen minutes in a hot oven. 

STEWED MUSHROOMS Mrs. E. R. Hornig 

Peel and wash mushrooms, cut one or two onions very fine and 
stew in a tablespoonful of butter, add mushrooms, season with pepper 
and salt and sprinkle over a little flour. Cook about fifteen minutes 
and serve hot. 

STEWED CUCUMBERS Mrs. E. R. Hornig 

Pare and cut lengthwise in quarters, remove seeds. Put into hot 
butter, or finely cut bacon, season with salt and pepper. Cook about 
fifteen minutes over a slow fire, or until they appear glossy. Add a 
teaspoonful vinegar or a little sour cream. Serve hot. 

FRIED CUCUMBERS Mrs. William H. Fahrney 

Peel and slice, medium thick, large cucumbers ; dip in batter and 
cracker crumbs and fry in hot fat until brown. 

KOHLRABBI Mrs. E. R. Hornig 

Take three bunches of kohlrabbi, remove hard leaves, strip ten- 
der leaves from their ribs, cut them up fine. Peel kohlrabbi, cut in 
slices quarter of an inch thick, and add tender green leaves. Put on 
to boil with cold water, just enough to cover, until tender. Season 
with pepper and salt, blend a teaspoonful of flour with butter, add to 
vegetable, and stew a few minutes longer. Serve hot. 



65 



Vegetables 

liiiiumuiimiiimiiiuiiiiiiiiimmiiiiiluiimNmiiiiimiiniiiiiiiNMiiriiiniiiniiiitniMnniiiiiniiniitiiiiirinMniMiiiiiniinininiiiiniiinMniirininiiiiin 



66 



SALADS 



t( f 



Twould tempt tJie dying anchorite to eat; 
Back to the world, he'd turn his weary soul, 
And plunge his fingers in the salad howl." 



TEA SALAD Mrs. Frederick Dunn 

Upon a leaf of head lettuce, place a round of boiled ham. (One 
slice of ham will make two rounds.) Then place a thick slice of 
tomato ; and next a half a hard boiled egg, cut crosswise ; then a ring 
of SAveet green peppers ; and over all pour Thousand Island dress- 
ing. Garnish with parsley and radish rosettes. Two such portions 
served on a salad plate makes an appetizing dish, or it can be served 
on a large platter at the table, or passed. 

PERFECTION SALAD Mrs. Louis Geyler 

One envelope Knox's sparkling gelatine; one-half cup cold water; 
one-half cup mild vinegar; one pint boiling water; one teaspoonful 
salt; one cup finely shredded celery; one cucumber chopped finely; 
one bunch radishes chopped ; one green pepper chopped ; one-half cup 
sugar ; juice of one lemon ; little onion juice ; seeds of one pomegran- 
ite. Soak gelatine in cold water five minutes; add vinegar; lemon 
juice ; onion juice ; boiling water ; sugar and salt. Strain and when be- 
ginning to set, add ingredients. Turn into ring mold and chill. Serve 
on lettuce leaves, garnish with asparagus tips in center and tomatoes 
quartered around it. Use cooked mayonnaise as dressing. 

CHICKEN SALAD Mrs. Jarvis Weed 

To the white meat and a very little bit of the dark meat of a 
chicken add one cupful blanched almonds, a cupful of celery and about 
six slices of Hawaiian pineapple shredded. Cover with an oil mayon- 
naise and mix well. 

FROZEN FRUIT SALAD Mrs. C. H. Bushnell 

Three cakes blue label cream cheese ; one-half pint mayonnaise 
dressing; one pint whipped cream; one ten-cent bottle maraschino 
cherries ; one can white cherries ; one can pineapple cut fine ; one-half 
cup pecan nuts. Beat cheese to cream, mix with fruit, put in melon 
mold and freeze about three hours. Serve on lettuce with mayonnaise. 

67 



Salads 

imiiiiinmiiiiiiiiiiiiiiimiiiiiiimiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiin iiiiiiiiiii i iiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiMnniiimimmiiiiiimiiiimiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiitiiiiiiiiiiiiiriiiii 

FROZEN SALAD Mrs. A. E. Kaltenbrun 

Five eggs beaten separately. One cup of vinegar ; one cup of milk 
and cream mixed ; one tablespoonf ul butter ; one-half teaspoonful mus- 
tard ; one-fourth teaspoonful salt ; one cup of sugar. Cook until thick. 
Let cool and add: two bottles whipping cream, any kind of fruit — 
preferably pineapple, oranges, peaches, etc., and freeze like a mousse. 
Baking powder can molds are splendid. Slice and serve with cherry on 
lettuce. 

FROZEN SALAD Mrs. Thos. D. Caliger 

Melt one tablespoonful butter and add yolks of two eggs, well 
beaten ; mix three and one-half tablespoonfuls flour, three tablespoon- 
fuls sugar, one teaspoonful salt, one-third teaspoonful paprika, few 
grains cayenne. Add to the above mixture : Two-thirds cup milk ; one- 
third cup vinegar. Cook same in double boiler until thick. Stir con- 
stantly ; when cooked, beat two minutes and chill ; then add two large 
tablespoonfuls of pineapple juice, four cupfuls of fruit cut fine, one 
bottle of whipped cream. Pack in ice and salt for three hours. Slice 
and serve on lettuce leaves. 

HAWAIIAN SALAD Mrs. C. A. Jennings 

One large or two small heads of lettuce; four medium sized 
tomatoes ; one alligator pear. Place lettuce leaves on plate with two 
or three slices of tomatoes. Cover with rings of alligator pear cut 
very thin. Serve with French dressing. 

French Dressing: Rub salad dish with bead of garlic (omit if 
objectionable). One-half teaspoonful salt, generous dash of paprika, 
four tablespoonfuls olive oil, one and one-half tablespoonfuls vinegar. 
This will serve six people. 

COTTAGE CHEESE AND PRUNE SALAD Mrs. Lyman Holsey 

One and one-fourth cups cottage cheese ; one and one-half dozen 
medium sized prunes ; one-fourth cut) chopped hickory nuts ; one-fourth 
teaspoonful salt; dash paprika. Wash prunes. Remove pits and let 
soak over night. Mix remaining ingredients and stuff prunes with this 
mixture. Place on lettuce leaf and serve with French dressing. 

FRUIT SALAD Belle Hallen Molt 

One can pineapple cubed; one pound Malaga grapes seeded and 
cut in half ; one-fourth pound pecans ; one-fourth pound marshmallows 
cut in half. 

Dressing: Yolks of four eggs; one-half teaspoonful mustard; 
one-half teaspoonful salt ; juice of one lemon ; one-half cup of cream ; 
boil in double boiler until thick and smooth. Let this get cold and 
add one-half pint whipped cream and pour over and mix thoroughly 
with fruit and let stand in icebox four hours before serving, giving 
the marshmallows a chance to become creamy. It will come out like a 
thick fluff. 

68 



Salads 

iinrinniiiiniMiMiiininiinininimiimMiiMiiiiiiiiinniiiMMiiinniiMriiiiniiiininiiiiininiiinniiiniinMiuninMniiJiiiiniiiMnnnniiniiinriMnrinrniniinniiiniiinriniiiniii 

FRUIT SALAD Mrs. C. B. Martin 

Into a quart of boiling water, put two packages of lemon jello ; 
when thoroughly dissolved, strain ; and when cool mix in one cup of 
chopped nuts ; one cup of green grapes, seeded and cut in half ; one cup 
of sliced pineapple ; one-half cup pimento ; two cups chopped cabbage ; 
stir and add to jello. 

FRUIT SALAD Mrs. J. Blackburn 

Green California grapes cut in half and seeded, a little celery cut 
in dice, pecan nuts cut in halves and a few quartered olives. Mix 
carefully with salad dressing and before serving add one-half cup of 
cream. 

BEST EVER SALAD Mrs. Kathryn M. Haskell 

One orange cut in quarters ; one banana cut in small oblong 

pieces; one small can of pineapple cut in small pieces; one-half cup 

chopped English walnuts. 

Dressing: Two eggs beaten lightly; one-fourth cup pineapple 

juice ; one-fourth cup lemon juice ; one-half cup sugar ; cook until it 

thickens; let get cold and pour over fruit. 

TOMATO STUFFED WITH 

COTTAGE CHEESE AND ALMONDS Katherine Blade 

Peel nice ripe tomatoes ; scoop out the centers and fill with cottage 
cheese and minced almonds; place a spoonful mayonnaise on top and 
sprinkle minced almonds over the mayonnaise. 

TOMATO EN SURPRISE Mrs. J. E. Kelly 

Peel a nice large tomato and empty its contents ; take some cold 
slaw and celery hashed up very fine and mix it with mavonnaise dress- 
ing ; and add a pinch of salt and a dash of paprika. Mix well and fill 
the tomato with this mixture. The tomatoes must be served very cold. 

A NOVEL SALAD DISH Mrs. Campbell 

Take large and long cucumbers, cut them through the middle 
lengthwise, scrape out the inside and one has a pretty green boat in 
which to serve the salad. This is particularly pretty with lobster or 
shrimp salad on account of the contrast in the color. 

CHRISTMAS SALAD Marian Blade 

Two large grapefruit ; one cup chopped celery ; one cup chopped 
tart apples ; one-half cup hickory nut meats. Cut grapefruit in small 
pieces, being careful to remove all partitions and tough parts. Drain 
off juice, add celery, apples, nuts and mayonnaise. Toss together 
and serve on small leaves of cabbage. Garnish with round pieces of 
pimentos to resemble holly berries and pieces of green pepper cut to 
resemble holly leaves. 

69 



Salads 

iiiniinHiiiniiiiiiHiMiiiiiiiMiiniiniiitiiunniiiinnniiiiniiiMniniiiiiMirinitMtMiniiiniiniiiinnMiMnnMiiiniHiiiiiiiiiMniiiniiiHtiiinniiiiiiimimiiiiiimiiiiiiiiiiii^^^^^ 

DATE AND PINEAPPLE SALAD Mrs. Lyman 

One pound dates ; four slices pineapple ; one cup nut meats. Wash 
the dates and steam for five minutes, dry in oven. Cut in half re- 
moving the seed. Chop nut meats. Cut pineapple into small cubes 
and mix with nut meats. Marinate with French dressing and stuff 
dates with mixture. Serve on lettuce leaf with Mayonnaise dressing. 

NEAPOLITAN SALAD Mrs. Lyman Holsey 

Two cups of cottage cheese; one-half cum cream; one-half tea^ 
spoonful salt. Mix cheese with cream and salt. Color one-third of 
mixture with beet juice, pink. Mold in brick shaped tin which has 
been dipped in very cold water. Put in a layer of white, then the pink, 
then white. Chill thoroughly before turning out. Slice with very 
sharp knife dipped in hot water. Serve on lettuce leaves. 

ANCHOVIE BONNES-BOUCHES Mrs. Trumen 

Fillet some anchovies, cut them into thin strips, and put them on a 
dish with some shredded lettuce leaves, small radishes, some capers, 
thin slices of lemon and chopped parsley. Arrange all tastefully, 
season with lemon juice mixed with salad oil, garnish with stoned 
olives and the yolks and the whites of hard boiled eggs. 

CUCUMBER SALAD Mrs. J. T. Brown 

One cucumber cut very fine; one can grated pineapple; juice of 
four lemons ; sugar to taste ; two tablespoonf uls of gelatine. Cook the 
gelatine in a little water ; then add the juice of pineapple and lemons ; 
when it begins to set add the cucumber and pineapple. Put in molds, 
serve with a cream mayonnaise dressing. 

CUCUMBER SALAD Mrs. Maxwell 

Peel the cucumbers, cut them in thin slices without cutting the 
slices off, thus giving the appearance of a whole cucumber. Insert 
in each opening thin slices of radishes with the peel on, sliced to the 
exact size of the cucumber. Chill thoroughly and serve with French 
dressing. 

BUTTER BEAN SALAD Mrs. Lyman 

One pint butter beans (canned or cooked) ; one cup chopped cel- 
ery ; one tablespoonful finely chopped onion ; one tablespoonfud finely 
chopped green pepper. Mix ingredients together lightly. Garnish 
with grated cheese, and serve with French dressing, 

CREAM CHEESE Mrs. C. E. Ellis 

One Neufachatel cheese ; one-half that quantity of butter ; one 
tablespoonful cream; dash of tabasco sauce or cayenne pepper. Tint 
pink with vegetable coloring ; roll in nuts, finely chopped. Serve on a 
lettuce leaf. 

70 



Salads 

uiiniininnnninuniinininniiiiiiiiiiniimiiiiiimiiiuiiiiiiiniinMiuiiMiiiijnuninniuiiiiiiiiiiMininnirnjinniniiniiniiNiiiiinninnininiiniiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiJiiiiniiiiiiiii 

BANANA SALAD 

Cut bananas lengthwise, roll them in mayonnaise then in ground 
peanuts and serve on lettuce leaves. 

NORMANDY SALAD Mrs. Theresa B. Orr 

One can French peas washed and strained. One-half pound Eng- 
lish walnuts cut the size of the peas. Mix dressing with nuts. Toss 
with peas and serve on lettuce leaves. 

PIQUANT RAISINS FOR SALADS Mrs. Lyman 

Carefully seed one-half pound cluster raisins. Kinse quickly in 
hot water and drain well. Add one-fourth cup cold water, let stand 
one or two hours, then simmer, covered, until raisins begin to plump. 
Add one tablespoonful of Tarragon vinegar and simmer until vinegar 
is absorbed. Remove from fire, place tea towel under cover to absorb 
moisture and let stand until cold. These raisins are used as garnish 
or component part of salads. 

CABBAGE SLAW Mrs. T. M. Butler 

Chop up very fine one-half of medium sized cabbage head, one 
stalk of celery and one sweet pepper, salt to season, add one-half cup 
of sugar and enough vinegar to moisten the mixture. 

POTATO SALAD 

Four cupfuls sliced boiled potatoes; one small onion, chopped; 
one-half cupful weak vinegar; one teaspoonful salt; one-eighth tea- 
spoonful pepper ; three tablespoonf uls olive oil ; two slices bacon diced ; 
four stalks celery; chopped lettuce; one tablespoonful minced pars- 
ley. Put onion in a large bowl, add salt and vinegar, and let stand 
ten minutes ; then slice in the potatoes while still warm and mix thor- 
oughly. Add oil, the celery cut fine, the bacon fried to a crisp, and 
the bacon fat ; then the parsley. Arrange on a bed of lettuce and gar- 
nish with beets and hard cooked eggs that have been chopped. 

POTATO SALAD Mrs. Campbell 

Cut cold boiled potatoes into dice and mix them with two minced 
raw onions and one tablespoonful minced parsley. Sprinkle with 
salt and pepper to taste, stir lightly together and add one small diced 
cucumber and a hard boiled egg, also diced. Set in ice box for an hour. 
"When ready to serve, stir in one cucumber cut into dice and mix with 
two-thirds cupful of salad dressing. Garnish with hard boiled eggs 
and olives. 

TO SERVE WITH A SALAD Mrs. C. A. Carscadin 

Cream together one cake Blue Label Cream Cheese, and one-quar- 
ter pound or less of Roquefort cheese ; fold into this one bottle of cream 
whipped stiff. This will serve eight people. 

71 



Salads 

iiniiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiimmiiiiiiiiiiiininiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiniiiiiiiiii iiiniiiiiiiiniiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiuiimiiiiiiuiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiim 

HAM SALAD Edna Blade 

Chop one cupful of cooked ham very fine. Soak one tablespoon- 
ful of Knox gelatine in one tablespoonful of cold water for half an 
hour, then dissolve in one cupful of hot water with one teaspoonful 
each of onion juice and chopped parsley. Add to the ham and stir 
occasionally until the mixture thickens ; fold in one cupful of whipped 
cream and add one-half saltspoonful of paprika. Form it into little 
basket shapped molds and, when set, partly fill each little pink basket 
with mayonnaise. Surround with tiny lettuce leaves and simulate 
handles by two arched plumes of parsley. Placed on pretty plates, 
these form a delectable decorative fancy. If the larder does not con- 
tain the leftover meat, a can of deviled ham may be substituted. 

LOBSTER SALAD Mrs. Campbell 

Take a can of lobster, taking care to free it from any pieces of 
shell ; set it on ice while you make a good mayonnaise dressing and set 
that on ice also. Have ready one-half as much celery as you have 
lobster, cut into one-half inch lengths; mix lobster meat and celery 
together, sprinkle with salt and cayenne, then stir in one cup of may- 
onnaise. Arrange two or three lettuce leaves together to form a shell 
and put two or three teaspoonfuls of the salad on each. Garnish with 
hard boiled eggs cut lengthwise. 

OYSTER SALAD Miss Anna Brennan 

Allow six oysters to each person. Parboil them in their liquid 
and drain at once. When cool cut each one in four pieces. Break 
tender young leaves of lettuce and mix in equal parts with oysters. 
Pour over all the following dressing. Allow one egg to two persons. 
Boil eggs twenty minutes. When cold cut whites in slices and mix 
with oysters and lettuce. Mash yolks fine in deep bowl and add one 
raw yolk. Stir in olive oil slowly until it is a smooth paste. Season 
with lemon juice, English mustard and salt. Add oil until as thick 
as cream. Pour over salad. 

DANDELION SALAD Mrs. Maxwell 

Pick the young tender leaves of the dandelion, wash and lay in 
ice water for half an hour. Drain, shake dry and pat still drier 
between the folds of a napkin. Turn into a chilled bowl, cover with a 
French dressing, turn the greens over and over in this and send at 
once to the table. 

TOMATO JELLY Mrs. A. Donald Campbell 

Cook, for twenty minutes, two cups of tomatoes, with slice of 
onion ; one teaspoonful salt ; dash of pepper ; strain and add one table- 
spoonful Knox gelatine, which has already been soaked in cold water. 
Stir all until gelatine is entirely dissolved; then pour in a ring mold 
that has been dipped in cold water. When ready to serve turn out on 
a bed of lettuce leaves and fill center with chopped celery well mixed 
with mayonnaise. 

72 



Salads 

iiiuiiiiiiiniiniiiiniiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiimiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiirinNuinniiuiiiiinniiiMiiiniuiHMnMuininijniiniriiiiiMiniiiinniiniiiiiiiinJiiuniiniiniiinniniMiii^ 

SALAD DRESSING Mrs. H. P. Sieh 

One-half cup olive oil ; one teaspoonful paprika ; one teaspoonful 
"Worcestershire sauce ; a pinch mustard ; one-half cup sugar ; one-third 
teaspoonful salt. Mix all together well and add vinegar until the right 
consistency. 

SALAD DRESSING Mrs. E. Hilliard 

Three yolks of eggs, one tablespoonful sugar, one-quarter tea- 
spoonful mustard ; one-tenth teaspoonful cayenne pepper, one table- 
spoonful salt, one pint sweet oil, few drops at a time, one-quarter cup 
vinegar, one-quarter cup lemon juice. Add sweet cream before using. 

EXCELLENT SALAD DRESSING Mrs. Frederick Dunn 

Two tablespoonfuls granulated sugar; two teaspoonfuls dry mus- 
tard; little red pepper; eight yolks eggs; eight tablespoonfuls vinegar; 
two teaspoonfuls salt ; two teaspoonfuls butter. Cook in double boiler 
five minutes ; when cold add one cup chopped pecan nuts or blanched 
almonds, twenty-four chopped marshmallows, two cups whipped 
cream. Pour over apricots or fruit salad. Garnish with maraschino 
cherries. This serves sixteen persons. 

CREAM SALAD DRESSING Mrs. N. A. Flanders 

Two tablespoonfuls butter; two tablespoonfuls sugar; two eggs; 
one-half cijp whipped cream ; one-half teaspoonful salt ; one-half tea- 
spoonful mustard (together); one-eighth cayenne pepper; one-fourth 
cup vinegar. Mix sugar, salt and mustard together in small pot, add 
vinegar and put on fire to heat. Beat eggs very light in a round bot- 
tomed bowl. Add the vinegar and other ingredients. Stand bowl in a 
pan of hot water over fire, and beat with a dover beater until it 
thickens. Take the bowl out at once and beat in the butter. Set aside 
to cool. Add whipped cream before serving. (Last item not neces- 
sary.) 

CREAM SALAD DRESSING Mrs. J. H. Shanley 

Four tablespoonfuls butter ; one tablespoonful sugar ; one-half cup- 
ful vinegar ; one tablespoonful flour ; one teaspoonful each, salt and dry 
mustard ; one cupful milk ; three eggs ; dash cayenne pepper. Let the 
butter get hot; add flour and stir until smooth, being careful not to 
brown. Add milk, stir, and let boil up. Place saucepan in another 
of hot water ; beat eggs, salt, mustard, add vinegar and stir into boil- 
ing mixture. Continue stirring until it thickens. When cold, bottle. 

MRS. LUFF'S MAYONNAISE 

Yolks of three eggs; two teaspoonfuls mustard; one teaspoonful 
salt ; one saltspoonful white pepper ; two tablespoonfuls salad oil : two 
tablespoonfuls sugar; one tablespoonful flour, heaping; one-half cup 
hot vinegar; one cup milk or cream. Beaten whites added last. Put 
in double boiler and stir until it begins to thicken. Take it off stove 
and beat until cool. 

73 



Salads 

iiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiriiiiiiiiiiiriitiiiiiiiiiriiiiiiiiiiiniiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiriiiiijiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiniiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiii iiiiiiiiiiiiiiinnniiinniiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiimiiiiiiii 

FRUIT SALAD DRESSING Mrs. A. R. Swickheimar 

Butter size of an egg; three eggs; juice of two oranges; juice 
of one lemon; one-half can pineapple juice; one-half cup sugar; one- 
third spoonful dry mustard; one teaspoonful flour. Cook in double 
boiler until thick ; set aside to cool ; add one cup of cream, whipped. 

FRUIT SALAD DRESSING Mrs. Frank Sessions 

Yolks of two eggs, well beaten; two tablespoonfuls each of oil, 
vinegar and sugar; one-half teaspoonful salt and dash of paprika. 
Put in bowl over the teakettle, beat until cool. Just before serving 
add the beaten whites and a little cream. 

FRUIT DRESSING Mrs. A. E. Kaltenbrun 

To the juice of one can of pineapple add: one tablespoonful flour; 
one-half cup sugar ; a pinch of salt ; tablespoonful butter. Cook until 
creamy, let cool and add one bottle of whipped cream, one-half pound 
of dates and marshmallows. Serve on fruit. 

FRUIT SALAD DRESSING Mrs. T. M. Butler 

Two eggs, well beaten, add one cup of sugar; one-half cup of 
pineapple juice, one-fourth cup of lemon juice or juice of one lemon. 
Place in double boiler and cook until creamy and thick. Let it cool 
and just before serving whip one-half pint of cream and stir in the 
sauce. 

SALAD DRESSING Mrs. W. H. Muschlet 

One heaping teaspoonful flour ; one heaping teaspoonful Colemans 
mustard ; one-half cup granulated sugar ; one teaspoonful salt ; mix all 
together. Yolks of three eggs ; one-half cup vinegar ; one cup cream 
or cream and milk ; large lump butter ; little paprika. Cook in double 
boiler until thickened. Before getting cold stir in the beaten whites. 

ITALIAN SALAD DRESSING Mrs. Theresa B. Orr 

Yolks of three eggs boiled hard and mashed fine. One small 
spoonful salt; one small spoonful mustard; a little cayenne pepper; 
one saltspoonful of powdered, sugar ; four tablespoonfuls olive oil ; one 
tablespoonful lemon juice; one tablespoonful vinegar. Do not let 
come to boil but stir constantly, 

SOUR CREAM SALAD DRESSING Mrs. A. R. Swickheimar 

Three eggs beaten with one cup sour cream; two tablespoonfuls 
sugar ; one-half teaspoonful mustard ; one-half cup vinegar ; one table- 
spoonful flour. Cook in double boiler; when cold, add one-third cup 
olive oil, 

THOUSAND ISLAND DRESSING Mrs, Carolyn Chandler 

To a foundation of either boiled dressing or mayonnaise, add: 
Chili sauce, catsup, hard boiled egg and green olives. Serve on either 
lettuce hearts or French endive. 

74 



Salads 

iiiniiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiininiiiiiiiiiiiiiniiniiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiniiiinnniiiniMiiiniiiiiiiiniiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiniiiiiiiiHiiiiiiiiNiiuiiiiiiiitiiiHiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiii^ 

THOUSAND ISLAND DRESSING Mrs. P. B. Woodland 

Three tablespoonfuls mayonnaise dressing; one tablespoonful Tar- 
ragon vinegar ; two tablespoonfuls chili sauce ; one tablespoonful cream ; 
a little dash salt, pepper and paprika; dash English mustard; and 
some chopped chives or onions. 

MRS. PHELPS' THOUSAND ISLAND 

SALAD DRESSING Mrs. E. Lewis Phelps 

Rub the bowl with garlic; two tablespoonfuls cooked salad dress- 
ing, cream this with one tablespoonful chives, cut fine; one table- 
spoonful green pepper and one of red peppers, both cut fine ; one table- 
spoonful roquef ort cheese ; four tablespoonfuls home made chili sauce. 

COOKED SALAD DRESSING Mrs. H. D. Sheldon 

One-half tablespoonful salt; one-half tablespoonful flour; two 
tablespoonfuls sugar; one teaspoonful dry mustard, little cayenne 
pepper; yolks of two eggs; three-fourths cup milk; one-fourth cup 
vinegar; butter size of egg. Mix all dry materials, then add eggs 
well beaten ; butter, milk and vinegar. Cook until thick, stirring con- 
stantly. Thin with cream. 

BOILED DRESSING Mrs. Arthur Hammer 

One teaspoonful each of mustard and sugar; two teaspoonfuls 
flour; one-half teaspoonful salt; one-eighth teaspoonful paprika; one 
egg and one cup of milk. Have butter the size of an egg hot in a 
spider; have the above ingredients thoroughly mixed and put in 
the hot butter, stirring constantly until thick. Add vinegar and lemon 
to taste and beat until smooth. 

WALTHAM SALAD DRESSING B. C. Hansen 

One cup of sour cream; two egg yolks; one-fourth cup vinegar; 
two teaspoonfuls salt; two teaspoonfuls sugar; one teaspoonful mus- 
tard; one-eighth teaspoonful pepper. To cream, add egg yolks, 
slightly beaten, vinegar and remaining ingredients, thoroughly mixed. 
Cook in double boiler, stirring constantly, until mixture thickens. 

ROQUEFORT CHEESE DRESSING Mrs. A. E. Kaltenbrun 

Take a ripe piece of cheese, cream with a fork and add cream or 
vinegar until it makes a paste. Add oil and vinegar, salt and paprika 
as for French dressing. 

CHEESE MAYONNAISE 

Half a cream cheese; four tablespoonfuls of olive oil; one table- 
spoonful of vinegar; one teaspoonful of salt; dash of cayenne. Rub 
the cheese to a paste with the olive oil, seasonings and vinegar until it 
is thick like an egg mayonnaise. To some the flavor of oil is un- 
pleasant, but a very good mayonnaise can be made without oil, pro- 
vided you use two eggs instead of the one egg yolk ordinarily required. 

75 



Salads 

inniiMinirnniniiiiHiiniHiiiniinnniiiiniiiiiniinNiiiiniMiniiuiiiiiiiiuriiininJiiiniuiMiiiiiinuiiinMiniinMniiiHiNiMnniniuiHUiniiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiii 



76 



PIES 



'No soil upon earth is so dear to our eyes 
As the soil we first stirred in terrestrial pies. 



PIE CRUST UNFAILING Mrs. H. S. Mount 

One cup flour; two tablespoonfuls of lard; three tablespoonfuls 
of boiling water; pinch salt; baking powder enough to cover the end 
of silver knife. Put lard into water. Beat well; then add to dry 
ingredients, and roll out. 

PIE CRUST Anna May Price 

One cup shortening; one-half cup boiling water; cream. Two 
cups sifted flour and two level teaspoonfuls baking powder. 

PIE CRUST Mrs. N. L. Hurlbut 

One cup flour; two heaping tablespoonfuls lard; pinch salt; one 
teaspoonful baking powder. Cold water enough to make dough. 
Handle as little as possible. 

LEMON CREAM PIE Mrs. Becker 

Bake crust separate. One heaping tablespoonful lard; one-half 
cup flour; two tablespoonfuls water; one-fourth teaspoonful salt. 
Filling: Two cups water; juice of one lemon; yolks of two eggs; 
two tablespoonfuls corn starch ; one-half cup sugar ; pinch of salt. Boil 
filling separate and when cool fill in baked crust. Beat whites of eggs 
with two tablespoonfuls sugar and put on the top. 

LEMON PIE 

Juice of three lemons ; three eggs ; pint milk ; one-half cup sugar ; 
one-fourth cup rolled crackers ; one lemon rind. 

LEMON CREAM PIE Mrs. Willet Wanzer 

Bake the crust, then fill with the following : One cup sugar ; one 
lemon juice and peel; three egg whites saved for frosting; three 
heaping teaspoonfuls flour stirred up in a little cold water; one tea- 
cup boiling water; mix together and boil up. Then place in baked 
crust. Stir whites of eggs until thick. Add about one-half cup sugar, 
a little at a time. Then place on pie and brown slightly. 

77 



Pies 

iiniiirHniiiiiriniiNiiiiiiiiiinitiiiiiiiimniiiiiiiiiiiniiiiiiiiiiiiiiimiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiininiiiiiiiiiiiiiitiinininniiininitinniHuininurHniiiiinniininiiiimn 

LEMON CREAM PIE Mrs. H. Clay Calhoun 

One cupful granulated sugar; one tablespoonful butter, creamed; 
two tablespoonfuls flour ; juice of one large lemon ; yolks of two eggs ; 
one cupful milk ; stir all together and fold the stiffly beaten whites of 
the two eggs in last. 

LEMON PIE Mrs. R. F. Morrow 

One lemon; one-half orange; one cup sugar; yolks three eggs; 
one cup water; one tablespoonful (heaping) flour; one lump butter; 
beat all together and cook until thick custard. Put into crust; with 
whites beat stiff one spoonful sugar. 

FLAT CUSTARD PIE Mrs. Earl Combs 

Four eggs beaten; one quart of milk; two tablespoonfuls flour; 
one pinch salt; one tablespoonful butter; put in hot pan. Then pour 
custard and bake about twenty minutes. When done put creamed 
sugar on top while hot. Creamed sugar. One cup powdered sugar; 
two tablespoonfuls butter; one teaspoonful vanilla; cream all together. 

CRANBERRY PIE Mrs. Harry M. Boon 

One pint cranberries; one-half cup raisins. Wash and cut up 
raisins, put with cranberries with a small cup of sugar; cook and 
when soft put in pie crust. 

BOSTON CREAM PIE Mrs. J. G. Sherer 

Two cups milk ; three-fourths cup sugar ; three-fourths cup cocoa- 
nut ; pinch salt. Put in double boiler and heat. Teaspoonful vanilla ; 
three tablespoonfuls corn starch dissolved in a little milk; beaten 
whites of four eggs last ; then beat steadily. Bake crust first. Beat a 
bottle of cream until stiff; sweeten it with three tablespoonfuls of 
powdered sugar and a teaspoonful vanilla and spread on pie. 

CREAM PIE Mrs. Willet Wanzer 

Two egg yolks ; four heaping teaspoonf uls sugar ; two cups milk ; 
one-half tablespoonful butter; three even tablespoonfuls corn starch; 
one teaspoonful vanilla. Cook in double boiler until it thickens. Then 
spread on the baked pie crust, and put the whites beaten with sugar 
added on top, and brown slightly. To be eaten cold. Chocolate 
added makes a very delicious pie. 

BUTTER SCOTCH PIE Mrs. William Molt 

Make and bake crust first, before adding filling. One cup light 
brown sugar ; butter size of an egg ; one tablespoonful flour ; pinch of 
salt; mix thoroughly, then add one cup of milk and boil in double 
boiler until thick; then add beaten yolks of two eggs. Add to the 
baked crust ; beat whites of the two eggs stiff, with a little sugar and 
brown slightly in oven. 

78 



Pies 

iiMiiiiMnniniinnninntinnininrnnniniininninniiiiiniiinMinniHnnuniiiiinnininuiinininiininiJiniiiniiiniinniiiiiiiiniiiiiiiiriiiiiiiiiiiiiMiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiii 

CREAM PIE Mrs. T. M. Butler 

One egg, one tablespoonful of flour, three-fourths cup of sugar, 
butter size of a walnut, one pint of milk. Stir constantly while cook- 
ing until thickened and fill previously baked crust and sprinkle over 
with cocoanut and nutmeg. 

BUTTER-SCOTCH PIE Mrs. P. D. Swigart 

One and one-half ounces butter; three-fourths cup light brown 
sugar; two eggs; one and one-half cups sweet milk. Put butter in 
pan, mix in brown sugar, stirring constantly until caramel color, then 
add milk and boil until sugar is melted. Separate the yolks from 
whites, add to yolks one-half cup flour and one teaspoonful corn 
starch. Add enough water to make a thick paste, stir into ready 
baked pie crust, put whites to which sugar has been added on top and 
brown. Instead of whites of egg for top of pie, whipped cream may 
be substituted. 

BUTTER-SCOTCH PIE Mrs. Earl Combs 

One-half cup brown sugar; one-half cup white sugar; two yolks 
of eggs ; two tablespoonfuls flour ; one large cup milk ; two table- 
spoonfuls butter; dissolve sugar and butter with a small amount of 
milk ; and let boil until it threads a little. Mix flour with a little 
water to thin paste and then add milk and yolks of eggs. Stir all 
together and boil until smooth, thick paste. Put in baked crust. "Whip 
whites, put in little sugar, and put on top. Bake a golden brown. 

FILLING FOR PUMPKIN PIE Mrs. W. H. Hart 

One scant cupful sugar beaten into two eggs; one teaspoonful 
flour ; two heaping tablespoonfuls of cooked pumpkin ; spices to suit 
taste ; one and one-half cupfuls of sweet milk. Mix in order given ; 
this makes one large pie. "When done and before serving, spread the 
top with whipped cream ; nuts can also be added. 

BLUEBERRY PIE Mrs. C. S. Junge 

One cup of flour ; two heaping tablespoonfuls of lard ; three table- 
spoonfuls of sour cream. Mix lightly into crust. Sprinkle a layer of 
flour in lower crust and fill with berries. Sprinkle over them two 
tablespoonfuls of flour and a cup and a half of sugar. Put in two 
tablespoonfuls of water and add upper crust. Heat stones of cooker 
fifteen minutes beginning as you begin your pie. Bake pie forty 
minutes. 

SOUR CREAM PIE Mrs. H. Freeman 

One cup sour cream; one cup sugar; one-half cup seeded raisins, 
chopped fine ; yolks two eggs ; one-half teaspoonful cloves, and cinna- 
mon. Mix one teaspoonful flour with sugar ; spread on the pie after it 
is baked, whites of two eggs beaten to a froth, stiff, with two table- 
spoonfuls sugar. Set in oven and brown slightly. Cream must be 
sour. 

79 



Pies 

iriniiiiiiiiiiiMtMiiiiimmiiiimiiiMiiiiiinnniiinnMMnMnnnnniiiMiuiniiiMiMJiniiiiiiniiininiiiiiinMniiiiinMiiiMniuiniiinnnMiiiiiiJiiiinHniiJNJiiniiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiniiiiii 

MOCK CHERRY PIE Belle Shaw 

One cup cranberries, split lengthwise (work out seeds) ; one-half 
cup raisins chopped fine; one cup sugar with one tablespoonful flour 
mixed with it. Mix all together; pour in one-half cup boiling water; 
add one teaspoonful vanilla. Bake between rich crusts. 

PUMPKIN PIE Mrs. Max Mauermann 

One cup pumpkin ; one-fourth cup of sugar ; one-half teaspoonful 
salt; one-fourth teaspoonful cinnamon; one-fourth teaspoonful mace; 
one-half teaspoonful vanilla ; one egg and one yolk, beaten separately, 
and whites added last ; one-half cup milk ; one-fourth cup cream ; one 
tablespoonful corn starch. Bake in plain pastry until set. 

RICE RAISIN PIE Mrs. C. A. Carscadin 

Boil one cup of raisins in one cup of water for five minutes ; then 
add three tablespoonfuls boiled rice and one cup of sugar. Boil 
another five minutes and add a tablespoonful butter and bake in two 
crusts. 

DUTCH APPLE PIE Mrs. H. Abells 

Line pie plate with crust and fill with quartered apples. Add 
to one cup of sugar, one large tablespoonful of flour and stir into one 
cup of cream; pour over apples. Grate nutmeg over all and bake 
without upper crust. 

SWEET POTATO PIE Mrs. Earl Combs 

One pound of sweet potatoes mashed ; two cups of sugar ; one cup 
of cream ; one-half cup butter ; three eggs well beaten ; little nutmeg, 
pinch of salt. Bake in crust. 

SWEET POTATO PIE Mrs. Thomas D. Caliger 

Three medium sized potatoes. Boil soft and mash fine. Mix with 
it yolks of three eggs ; sugar, to taste ; one tablespoonful butter ; flavor- 
ing, nutmeg and vanilla to taste. Whip whites of eggs, and add small 
portion of ground citron. 

POTATO PIE Mrs. Charles T. Daily 

Four medium sized potatoes; two eggs; one and one-half cups 
milk; one cup sugar; one teaspoonful vanilla; butter the size of an 
egg ; grate a little nutmeg on top of pie. Mash the potatoes and whip 
them until light and fluffy ; add milk and run through sieve to remove 
all lumps ; add other ingredients ; put whole in crust and cook slowly 
in moderate oven until done. 

PRUNE TARTS Mrs. Litson 

Stone stewed prunes; chop fine; then stew them in their own 
linuor ten minutes; sweeten and thicken with flour or corn starch. 
When nearly cool, fill puff paste forms and pile high with whipped 
cream and serve. 

80 



Pies 

iiiiiii iiiiiiiiillllllimmiinimiiiiiii iiiiiii uiiiiiunii ii n i n iiiiriiiiiiiiiniiiiiuii iiiii iiiiiiiiiiiii iiiiiiiiini iiiiiiiiiil 



81 



Pies 

iiiiiininiiniHinminiiiiiiiimiiiiiiiimiilimniiiiiiNuiMininiuinuHininnHnuuininiinniiuuiJiNniinniiunuiiininnninuHJHnniinuHiHinnninnMniniiiiiniM 



82 



DESSERTS 



'Among tlie great, wJiom lieaven Jiath made to shine, 
How few Jiave learned the art of arts, — to dine!" 



KISS TORTE Mrs. F. Dunn 

Six whites of eggs; two cups granulated sugar; one teaspoonful 
vinegar; one teaspoonful vanilla. Beat the whites of eggs to a stiff, 
dry froth; add the sugar a little at a time and beat; add the vanilla 
and vinegar. Grease a spring form pan and pour in the mixture. 
Bake about one hour in a slow oven. Serve with crushed strawberries 
or raspberries and whipped cream. Can be baked in individual molds 
and the centers filled with berries, etc. Very delicious. Bake forty 
minutes in a slow oven. 

KISS TORTE Mrs. Harry M. Boon 

Three egg whites beaten very stiff; gradually put in above one 
cup of granulated sugar, one teaspoonful vinegar, one-half teaspoon- 
ful vanilla. Bake in a very light warm oven in two layers. Fill with 
one quart ice cream, whip cream on top, use berries if you desire, with 
cream. Serves four or five people. Recipe can be doubled. 

CHERRY TORTE Mrs. H. S. Mount 

Thicken cherries with corn starch. Torte: Two tablespoonfuls 
butter; two tablespoonfuls sugar; one yolk egg. Work little by little 
into al30ve mixture one cup of flour; put in pie tin and fill with 
cherries. Bake in oven twenty minutes. 

DATE TORTE Mrs. W. F. Barnard 

One cupful sugar ; three eggs ; one cup sliced date ; one cup sliced 
nut meats; three tablespoonfuls flour; one-half teaspoonful salt; one 
teaspoonful baking powder. Bake about one hour. Serve with 
whipped cream. 

PINEAPPLE CREAM Mrs. C. S. Junge 

One cup whipped cream; fifteen marshmallows cut into quarter 
inch squares ; four slices pineapple cut into this mixture and let stand 
on ice for two hours. Bananas or prunes may be used this same 
way. 

83 



Desserts 

iniiiiiiNiiiinniiiiiiuiNnnimiiiiiiiiiiiiimiiiiiiiiimiiiiiliiiiiimimiiiiliiiiniiiinriniiiiiiniiiiujuiuiiriniiuMniiiniininniiiiniiinniiiiiimiiiiiiiim^^^^ 

PINEAPPLE BAVARIAN CREAM Mrs. C. S. Junge 

One tablespoonful Knox gelatin; one quarter cup cold water; 
one-half can grated pineapple ; one-quarter cup sugar ; one-half table- 
spoonful lemon juice; one and one-half cups whipped cream. Soak 
gelatin in the cold water. Heat pineapple and add sugar, lemon juice 
and gelatin. Chill in pan of ice water, stirring constantly. When it 
begins to thicken, beat until frothy. Fold in cream and turn into 
molds. When cold serve with maraschino cherry on top. 

PINEAPPLE MERINGUE Mrs. May F. Kenfield 

Heat one can of grated pineapple and one-half cup granulated 
sugar and when boiling, thicken with about two tablespoonfuls of 
corn starch, dissolved in one-fourth cup of water. Boil five minutes. 
Add juice of one-half lemon and three beaten egg yolks. Remove and 
cool. Fill pastry shells and cover with a meringue, made of three 
whites, beaten stiff, with eight tablespoonfuls powdered sugar. Serve 
very cold. 

PINEAPPLE SPONGE 

One small fresh pineapple or one and one-half pint can of the 
fruit; one small cup of sugar; one-half package Knox gelatine; one- 
halm cup water ; whites of four eggs. Soak gelatine two hours in one 
and one-half cups water. Chop pineapple, put it with juice in a small 
saucepan with sugar and the remainder of the water. Simmer ten 
minutes, add gelatine, take from fire immediately and strain (if you 
prefer to leave the pineapple in, take out before straining) into a 
basin. When partly cold, add whites of eggs beaten. Beat until mix- 
ture begins to thicken. Serve with soft custard, flavored with wine. 

WHIPPED CREAM SECRET Mrs. W. H. Muschlet 

For one pint whipped cream soak a scant tablespoonful granu- 
lated gelatine in enough water, cold, to barely cover, until soft; then 
add a small half teacupful of boiling water and stir until the gelatine 
is completely dissolved ; after which add three-quarters of a cupful of 
sugar and flavoring. Turn into a bowl and beat it with an egg beater 
until it is white, like marshmallows, and begins to become firm. Just 
as soon as it has reached that point, but before it commences to grow 
stringy, beat it by spoonfuls into the cream. This will increase the 
bulk of the latter, and it will keep firm any length of time. 

SPANISH CREAM 

Pint milk with one-half box Keystone gelatine in double boiler; 
yolks of two eggs and five tablespoonfuls sugar beaten together very 
lightly ; pour milk, etc., into egg mixture ; then return to double boiler 
and stir constantly. Beat whites of two eggs, pour mixture very grad- 
ually with same and stir until cold; then add two tablespoonfuls 
cream and pour into mold. Stand two hours on ice before serving. 
Be careful and have mold damp inside, but not wet, before using. 

84 



Desserts 

iiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiniiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiMiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiniiiiiiiHiniiiitiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiniiiiimiiiiiiiiriiiiiiiiiriiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiii^ 

DREAM WHIP Mrs. W. I. Clock 

One pint whipping cream; one-half pound marshmallows ; two 
tablespoonfuls sugar ; one teaspoonful vanilla ; one-fourth pound pecan 
nuts (other nuts can be substituted if desired). Cut the marshmal- 
lows up with scissors, add to stiffly beaten cream ; also add sugar and 
vanilla. Let stand all one day. When ready to serve place a small 
amount in glasses, adding the chopped nuts, chocolate sauce or any 
fruit desired. This cream and marshmallow combination can be 
served as the foundation of any number of desserts. 

CHARLOTTE RUSSE Katharine Orr 

One-half pint whipping cream ; one tablespoonf ul Keystone white 
gelatine; one-fourth cup hot water; one-fourth cup powdered sugar; 
whites of two eggs; flavor with vanilla. Add gelatine when cold to 
whipped cream and sugar; then flavoring and well beaten whites of 
eggs. Pour over lady fingers and decorate top with cookies stand- 
ing up. 

DRESDEN CHOCOLATE 

One cup stale bread crumbs; one-half grated chocolate; two 
tablespoonfuls sugar ; one-fourth teaspoonful salt. Put in oven in but- 
tered tin until chocolate melts. Serve with whipped cream. 

CHOCOLATE LADY FINGER DESSERT Mrs. S. Friedlander 

Eighteen large lady fingers divided in half and put in a pan flat 
side up and pan lined with waxed paper. Melt two cakes Baker's 
chocolate (sweet) in double boiler with three tablespoonfuls water 
and two tablespoonfuls sugar. Let cool, then add yolks of four eggs, 
beating one at a time. Beat four whites stiff and add to above mix- 
ture. Take layers of lady fingers, then one of the chocolate mixture, 
another of lady fingers and so on, making three layers of lady fingers 
and two of the chocolate mixture. When ready to serve, whip two 
bottles of cream and put on top. Candied cherries and chopped nuts 
may be added also. 

RIZ AU LAIT Mrs. R. Woods 

Boil one-half a cupful of rice in a pint of water until very tender 
and creamy. Add one cup of milk, a small piece of lemon rind, a hand- 
ful currants and sugar to taste. Let cook slowly for fifteen minutes 
and remove from fire. Beat yolk of an egg in a spoonful of milk and 
stir in the rice; do not set back on fire. Serve cold. 

PRUNE SOUFFLE Mrs. WiUiam Molt 

To one cup stewed prunes, seeded, add three tablespoonfuls 
sugar; one-half teaspoonful vanilla and beaten whites of three eggs 
folded in lightly. Steam for two hours in double boiler. (When 
adding water to boiler be sure it is boiling hot.) Serve hot with 
whipped cream. 

85 



Desserts 

I iiiiiiiiiiMi iiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiii Ill iiiiiiiiiiiiiiniiiiiiiiiitiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiii iiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiitiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiii tiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiniiiiiiiiitiiiiitii 

MAPLE CREAM CUSTARD Mrs. Jarvis Weed 

Three bottles cream; three eggs beaten very light; one cup pure 
maple syrup; put all together in a double boiler and stir constantly 
until very smooth. Line a dish with lady fingers and pour the custard 
over them ; put in ice box and serve when very cold. 

PEACH SURPRISE Mrs. W. I. Clock 

Canned peaches; maccaroons; whipping cream. Take the juice 
of peaches and add macaroons broken up. Fill the centers of halves 
of peaches with this mixture, and serve with whipped cream. 

CARAMEL CUSTARD EN SURPRISE Mrs. T. D. McMicken 

Caramel custard baked in individual molds. Unmold on rounds 
of sponge cake a little larger than the custard molds, cover with 
meringue creamed with almond extract. Sprinkle with sugar and 
brown. Decorate with blanched almonds on top. 

BLUEBERRY SHORTCAKE Mrs. C. A. Jennings 

One-half cup butter; one oup sugar; one-half cup milk; two eggs; 
two and one-half cups flour ; two heaping teaspoonfuls baking powder ; 
one pint blueberries. Mix batter and add berries last. Bake in muffin 
rings or shallow dripping pan. Serve hot. 

PEACH SHORTCAKE Mrs. W. N. Hurlbut 

Two cups flour; four level teaspoonfuls baking powder; half 
teaspoonful salt ; two teaspoonfuls sugar ; one-third cup butter ; three- 
quarters cup milk. Mix and sift flour, baking powder, salt and sugar, 
work in butter with finger tips, and add milk gradually. Toss on 
floured board, divide in two parts, bake in hot oven on large cake 
tins. Spilt and spread with butter. Sweeten sliced peaches to taste. 
Crush slightly, and put between and on top cf cakes. Cover with 
whipped cream. 

THORN APPLES 

Prepare a syrup by boiling eight minutes two cups sugar and 
three-fourths cup of water. Wipe, core and pare eight apples 
(Greenings). Drop apples into syrup as soon as pared. Cook slowly 
until soft but not broken, skim syrup when necessary. Drain from 
syrup, fill cavities with quince yelly and stick apples thickly with 
blanched, shredded and delicately toasted almonds. Chill and serve 
with cream as dessert or use as a garnish with cold meats. 

FOOD FOR THE GODS Mrs. J. F. Nichols 

One cup sugar ; one teaspoonful baking powder ; four tablespoon- 
fuls, heaping, cracker crumbs; three eggs, beaten separately; one cup 
dates; one cup nuts. Bake slowly in oven. Serve with whipped 
cream. 

86 



Desserts 

iiiiiiimiiiiiimmimiiiiimiiiiiiiiimiiiiiiiiiiimiiiiimiiiiiiiiiiiiiMniiiiniuniiinniiniiniiMMMiiiinnuiMiiniMiMiJiiiniiriiiiinnMiiinnnnniiniiiii^ 

STRAWBERRY FOAM Mrs. A. J. Langan 

One cup strawberries, mashed; one cup sugar; white of one egg 
beaten stiff; whip all together for ten minutes, serve on pieces of 
angel food or sunshine cake. 

CRUMB TARTAR Mrs. Wm. J. Maiden 

One cupful sugar; one cup dates, pitted and chopped; one cupful 
nuts, chopped; two eggs; one tablespoonful flour; one teaspoonful 
baking powder; pinch of salt. Mix eggs, sugar and salt, then flour 
and baking powder, adding the dates and nuts last. Bake in slow 
oven and serve with whipped cream. 

FIGS AS A DESSERT 

Dried figs make a very agreeable dish, but they must be prepared 
the day before and set away on ice. Soak them, simmer slowly until 
plump. Drain and pile in a bon-bon dish. Serve with whipped cream 
around the dish. Flavor and sweeten with vanilla. 

HOT APPLE DESSERT DISH Mrs. Eustace 

Pare, quarter, core and slice five or six large apples. Put these 
in a serving dish suitable for the oven, in layers, with seeded raisins 
and one cup of sugar. Cover and let bake until apple is tender. Re- 
move the cover and set marshmallows over the top of the apples, using 
as many as desired ; return dish to the oven, for a minute only, to heat 
the marshmallows, and brown them slightW. Serve with or without 
cream. 



87 



Desserts 

linninniinrniiiriniiiitiiiiniiiiimiiiiiiiliiiiiiiiiiiiiNinirniiininiiiiinniiiinniiniiiniiiiiiiinruiMiiniiiininiiiniiiiinnnnniiinniiiiiiHiiiininmiMiiiiliiimiiiminim^^^^ 



88 



PUDDINGS 



"The pudding's proof does in the eating lie, 
Success is yours, whichever rule you try." 



FIG PUDDING Mrs. C. B. Martin 

One cup suet; one cup sugar; one cup milk; one cup of figs, 
ground; three cups flour; one-half teaspoonful salt; one teaspoonful 
each of cinnamon and baking powder. Steam two hours. 

STEAMED FIG PUDDING Mary Eoberts 

Three ounces beef suet ; one-half ounce figs, chopped fine ; two and 
one-third cups stale bread crumbs; one-half cup milk; two eggs; one 
cup sugar; three-fourths spoonful salt. Chop suet and work with 
hands until creamy; then add figs. Soak bread crumbs in milk. Add 
eggs, well beaten; then sugar and salt. Combine mixture. Steam 
three hours in a buttered mould. Serve with following sauce : 

Sauce : Two eggs ; one cup powdered sugar ; three tablespoonfuls 
wine; beat yolks until thick, add one-half of the sugar. Beat whites 
stiff, add remaining sugar. Combine, and add wine. 

FIG PUDDING Mrs. W. K. Mitchell 

One cup suet ; one cup sugar ; one cup milk ; three cups flour ; one 
cup figs, ground ; two eggs ; one-half teaspoonful salt ; one teaspoonful 
each of cinnamon and baking powder. Mix all together and steam 
about two hours. 

CHOCOLATE PUDDING Mrs. C. A. Bowman 

One pint of milk; two tablespoonfuls corn starch; one table- 
spoonful sugar; pinch of salt. Boil until thick, add one heaping 
teaspoonful cocoa dissolved in a little boiling water, and last the stiffly 
beaten whites of two eggs. Let all cook one minute and flavor with 
vanilla. 

CHOCOLATE PUDDING Mrs. J. L. Putnam 

One pint of milk; one tablespoonful Baker's cocoa; one table- 
spoonful corn starch; one egg; one and one-half cups sugar. Heat 
milk in double boiler. Mix dry ingredients and beat in egg. Add to 
scalded milk. Boil fifteen minutes. Kemove from fire and whip with 
egg beater. Add one teaspoonful vanilla. Serve with cream. 

89 



Puddings 

ininniniiiiiinininiininitiiniiNnniHiniuuiuMniinuiiiiiHnHuiMniiHiiiUMiMiinunnniiinniniiiniiininiuNiiniiniintiMinniiinnniNiiiiiiniMiiiiuiiiniiiiiimiiiiiiiiii 

STEAMED CHOCOLATE PUDDING Mrs. William H. Fahrney 

One and one-half tablespoonfuls butter; two-thirds cup sugar; 
one egg; one cup milk; one-half teaspoonful salt; two and one- 
fourth cups flour; three teaspoonfuls baking powder; two squares of 
chocolate, melted. Steam in a buttered pudding mold, tightly covered, 
for two hours. 

Cream Sauce : One-fourth cup butter ; one cup powdered sugar ; 
stir until creamy; then add one cup whipped cream just before serv- 
ing ; flavor. 

STEAMED CHOCOLATE PUDDING Mrs. H. R. Foster 

Three-fourths cup sugar; one tablespoon butter, creamed. Two 
eggs; one-half cup milk; one and one-half cups sifted flour; one and 
one-half teaspoonfuls baking powder; two squares melted chocolate, 
or two tablespoonfuls cocoa ; one teaspoonful vanilla. Steam one hour 
and serve with hard sauce. 

CHOCOLATE ICE-BOX PUDDING 

Two cakes sweet chocolate ; two tablespoonfuls boiling water ; one- 
fourth cup confectioner's sugar; yolks four eggs; whites four eggs; 
nut meats; lady fingers. Melt chocolate in top of double boiler; re- 
move from range, add boiling water and the yolks of eggs beaten 
until thick and light. Fold in the stiffly beaten whites of eggs. Line 
a small pan (dimensions, 7|x4fx2^) with wax paper. Put in a layer 
of split lady fingers cut to fit and cover bottom ; cover these with hiilf 
of the chocolate mixture ; sprinkle with bits of trimmings of lady 
fingers and nut meats. Cover with a layer of lady fingers, pour over 
remainder of chocolate mixture, sprinkle with nut meats and chill in 
refrigerator twenty-four hours. Serve with whipped cream. 

CARAMEL PUDDING Mrs. H. R. Foster 

One-half pint brown sugar; one-half pint cold water; one-fourth 
box gelatine; four eggs, whites; one-half teaspoonful vanilla. Soak 
gelatine in one gill of cold water. Put sugar and other gill of water in 
saucepan and boil until it becomes a thick syrup. Add gelatine and 
vanilla and again heat to boiling point. Beat whites to stiff froth. 
Pour hot syrup on eggs, beating until cold. Turn into mold and 
serve on flat dish with custard sauce made from yolks of eggs. 

MOLASSES PUDDING Mrs. C. A. Carscadin 

One egg well beaten; two tablespoonfuls sugar, rounded; one 
tablespoonful butter, level ; one pinch salt ; one-half cup molasses ; one 
and one-half cups flour, well sifted; one teaspoonful baking powder; 
one teaspoonful soda, level, dissolved in one-half cup boiling water. 
Steam in buttered tins two hours. 

Sauce: Two eggs; one-half cup sugar; pinch salt; half teaspoon- 
ful vanilla ; cream together and add one cup of whipped cream. 

90 



Puddings 

•II iiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiii mill iiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiniiiiiiiiiiiiiiuiiiiiniiiiiiiiii iiiiiiiiiiii iiiiiiiiiiii niii ■■ nui iiiiiiiiiiiiiii 

ICE-BOX PUDDING Katherine T. Peck 

Scant one-fourth cup unsalted butter ; one cup granulated sugar ; 
cream together. Add yolks of three eggs, one at a time, rind of one 
lemon, half ; and juice of one lemon. Beat the whites of the three eggs 
and add last. Place mixture alternately with lady fingers, three dozen 
lady fingers will serve eight people. Put oil paper in bottom of dish 
to lift pudding out easily. Serve with whipped cream. Place in ice- 
box until thoroughly chilled. Can be made the night before. 

ICE BOX CAKE Mrs. J. F. Nichols 

One dozen lady fingers ; one tablespoonful sugar ; three eggs, sep- 
arated ; one cake sweet chocolate. Melt chocolate in double boiler with 
tablespoonful warm water. Add mixture of yolks of eggs and sugar, 
well beaten, a little vanilla, and lastly well-beaten whites of eggs. 
Dip each lady finger in mixture, arrange in form which has been wet 
with cold water, and fill in. Place in ice box over night. Serve with 
whipped cream. 

ICE BOX CAKE Mrs. H. S. Mount 

Three cakes sweet chocolate, three tablespoonfuls powdered 
sugar, three tablespoonfuls hot water, two dozen lady fingers. Melt 
chocolate, sugar and water in double boiler and add half beaten yolks 
of six eggs. Cook until thick. When cold add beaten whites of six 
eggs. Line a mold with lady fingers and pour half the mixture on 
them, then fill with lady fingers, repeating with the chocolate mixture. 
Made twenty-four hours before served. Just before serving, whip 
one-half pint cream and put on top of cake. Grate a little chocolate 
over all. 

SPONGE PUDDING Mrs. C. A. Carscadin 

One-fourth cup sugar; one-half cup flour; one pint milk; one- 
fourth cup butter; five eggs. Mix sugar and flour, and add milk and 
cook until thick and smooth. Let cool, then add butter. Separate 
eggs, beat yolks until light and fold into mixture. Add whites i)eaten 
stiff, and pour into buttered dish. Stand dish in pan of water and 
bake in moderate oven one-half hour. 

Sauce: One-fourth cup butter; one-half cup powdered sugar; 
four tablespoonfuls cream added slowly, one teaspoonful vanilla. Set 
mixture over pan of boiling water until creamy. 

SUNSHINE PUDDING Mrs. Carscadin 

One-half cup flour; one-fourth cup sugar; one-fourth butter; one 
pint milk ; five eggs. Mix sugar and flour ; add milk ; and cook until 
smooth in double boiler. Take off stove and add butter. Separate 
eggs, beat yolks and add. Beat whites until stiff and add. Butter 
pan, set in pan of water and bake. 

Sauce : One-fourth cup butter ; one-half cup powdered sugar ; four 
tablespoonfuls cream, added slowly. 

91 



Puddings 

giiniiniMiniiiiiniiiiniiiiMniiiininiiiiimiiiimiiiiiiiiiiimiiiiiiiiiiniiiiiiiiiiiiimiiiiiiiiiimiiimiiiiiimmiiiiiiiiimniiiiiiiiiiim 

DATE PUDDING Mrs. W. I. Clock 

One cupful sugar; one cupful chopped nut meats; one cupful 
dates; two eggs; one-half cupful milk; one tablespoonful flour and 
one teaspoonful baking powder. Bake twenty or thirty minutes in 
moderate oven. When baking the pudding raises beautifully, but 
when done it falls in the center ; this is the correct occurrence. 

PEACH PUDDING Mrs. E. Oliver 

Butter pudding dish. Slice six large peaches in it. Batter: 
One cup sugar; one egg; one and one-half teaspoonfuls baking powder; 
butter size of an egg; three tablespoonfuls of milk; flour enough to 
make a soft batter. Pour over peaches and bake twenty minutes. 
Serve hot, with cream. 

CREAM PUDDING 

One cup nut meats; one cup dates; cut very coarse. One table- 
spoonful bread crumbs; one cup sugar; two eggs, beaten separately; 
add whites last. Bake twenty minutes in slow oven. Serve cold with 
whipped cream. 

SOUR CREAM PUDDING Mrs. William H. Fahrney 

One cup brown sugar; two eggs; pinch of salt; one cup sour 
cream; one teaspoonful soda; two cups flour; three-fourths cup nuts. 
Bake. 

Sauce: Cream one cup powdered sugar and one-fourth cup but- 
ter; add one egg; one teaspoonful vanilla or tablespoonful sherry 
wine. 

APPLE PUDDING Miss Flora Gill 

One cup sugar ; one cup flour ; two eggs ; one-half cup of sweet 
milk; fill a three-pint baking dish with sliced apples, two-thirds full. 
Add one-half cup of sugar, a little cinnamon, and some water. Bake 
until very tender. When still very hot pour over the top a cake batter 
made as follows : Beat one cup of sugar with yolks of two eggs ; one 
tablespoonful soft butter, and milk and flour. Mix two heaping tea- 
spoonfuls of baking powder with flour before adding to the batter. 
Fold in stiffly beaten whites of the eggs and add extract of vanilla. 
Bake half an hour in a moderate oven. Serve vnth prepared sauce. 

LEMON PUDDING Mrs. W. I. Clock 

Mix three tablespoonfuls corn starch ; three cups boiling water ; 
two cups sugar ; two egg yolks ; juice of two lemons, little grated rind 
of one. Dissolve three tablespoonfuls of corn starch in a little cold 
water, add to the boiling water. Have saucepan in water bath. Add 
sugar and lemons, cook for twenty minutes. Remove from fire and 
stir in beaten egg yolks; set mixture in oven for two minutes and 
serve with cream, 

92 



Puddings 

iniiiiMinnninirniiiiirniniiiiiMMnniiiinninniiniiiniiininMiiMiiMiiiiiHiiiiinniinnniiiinriniiMiiMiiiniiuiiMunniniinnuiiniiiiiiMiiiiiiiiiiiiniiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiih 

SOUR MILK BLUEBERRY PUDDING Mrs. C. S. Junge 

One-half cup sugar; one-quarter cup butter; cream these. Two 
eggs well beaten; one-half cup sour milk; one-half teaspoonful soda; 
one cup flour with one cup blueberries. Bake thirty minutes and serve 
with sauce made with one cup of powdered sugar stirred with one 
tablespoonful of butter and flavored with vanilla. 

CARROT PUDDING Mrs. P. D. Swigart 

One and one-half cups flour; one cup sugar; one cup suet; two 

cups raisins ; one cup grated sweet potatoes ; one cup grated carrots ; 

one teaspoonful each salt and soda. Steam three hours; put three 

tablespoonfuls hot water on soda. 

Sauce: Two yolks of eggs; one cup powdered sugar; cream the 

above. Last thing, add a cup whipped cream. 

CARROT PUDDING Mrs. Frederick T. Hoyt 

One cup chopped raw carrots ; one cup chopped raw potatoes ; 
one cup chopped suet ; two cups chopped raisins ; one cup brown sugar ; 
one cup flour ; one teaspoonful salt, cinnamon and allspice ; a little 
nutmeg ; one teaspoonful soda in about two tablespoonfuls hot water. 
Mix well, put in mold, and steam two and one-half hours ; serve with 
a good pudding sauce. 

Pudding Sauce: One cup sugar; two egg yolks; one cup sherry 
wine; beat all until very light, add one pint cream, which has been 
whipped very stiff. 

PRUNE PUDDING Mrs. Eustace 

"Whites of five eggs beaten with one-half teaspoonful of salt ; add 
one cup of powdered sugar sifted with one even teaspoonful cream 
of tartar. Add five large cooked prunes chopped. Bake twenty-two 
minutes in ungreased custard cups. Set in pan of hot water. Slow 
oven. Serve with whipped cream. 

STEAMED MARMALADE PUDDING Mrs. T. D. McMicken 

One cup orange marmalade ; one-fourth cup butter ; one-third 
teaspoonful soda; two cups stale bread crumbs. Dissolve soda in a 
little hot water ; combine marmalade, one egg, butter, soda, and bread 
crumbs. Pack in a mold. Steam one and one-half hours. Serve with 
marshmallow cream. 

GRAHAM PUDDING Mrs. R. H. Wheeler 

One cup molasses ; one cup sweet milk ; two and one-half cups 
graham flour ; one cup Sultana raisins ; one saltspoonful salt ; two 
teaspoonfuls soda dissolved in warm water. Steam in pudding mold 
two hours. 

Sauce : One egg thoroughly beaten. Add one cup pulverized 
sugar; one cup whipped cream; one-half teaspoonful vanilla. 

93 



Puddings 

iiniininiHniiniiiiinniiiiiiiunniiniiiiiHniniinniiMiiiiiiinininiiinnuiinniuununiiHinnnnnnniiiiNninHiiniiriiiiiiiiiiiiiiinniiiiiiimiiiiiiiiiiiiiiimiilHiliin 

BROWN BETTY 

Butter the inside of a baking dish, cover the bottom with a layer 
of tart apples, peeled and sliced. Sprinkle this with sugar and cinna- 
mon or nutmeg and put over it a layer of crumbs, strewing it with 
bits of butter. Repeat the layers of apple and crumbs until the dish 
is full, making the top crumbs with an extra quantity of butter. 
Cover the pudding dish,, put it in the oven, and bake slowly for twenty 
or thirty minutes ; uncover, brown lightly ; serve in the dish in which 
it was cooked, with either hard or liquid sauce. 

SURPRISE PUDDING Mrs. C. E. Upham 

Four thin slices bread, buttered and cut in squares ; one egg ; one- 
third cup sugar; four tablespoonfuls molasses; three cups milk; turn 
all over bread. Let stand half an hour and mash well together; then 
bake one and one-half hours slowly. Be careful it does not turn to 
whey. If in a shallow pan, a big hour is long enough. Sauce : Beat 
white of one egg, then beat yolk ; mix, add one cupful sugar, vanilla, 
and beat all together. Beating separately makes it very frothy. 

CHEERY PUDDING Mrs. P. D. Swigart 

One-half cup sugar; one tablespoonful butter; one egg; one-half 
cup milk or water; one and one-half cups flour; one and one-half tea- 
spoonfuls baking powder. Steam forty minutes, put cherries in cups, 
then the batter. 

Sauce: One and one-half cups cherry juice; one tablespoonful 
butter; sweeten; thicken with corn starch. 

SIMPLE HASTY FRUIT PUDDING Mrs. C. S. Junge 

One tablespoonful butter; tAvo tablespoonfuls sugar; three table- 
spoonfuls flour; one teaspoonful baking powder; two tablespoonfuls 
milk; one egg. Turn this mixture over sliced peaches, bananas, 
oranges, blueberries, pineapples or plums and bake twenty minutes in 
moderate oven. Serve with cream or with hard sauce made by rub- 
bing butter and sugar together. 

ECONOMICAL PUDDING Mrs. Minnie A. Watkins 

Fill a mold with dry pieces of cake, alternating layers with 
bananas that have been scraped and cut lengthwise. Fill up mold with 
a boiled custard thickened with yolks of eggs. Put on ice. Serve cold 
with whipped cream. Also serve toasted Brazilian nut meats with it. 

PHILADELPHIA RICE PUDDING Mrs. B. Z. Bisbee 

Wash well one-fourth cup of rice. Put in a baking dish with one 
quart of milk, four tablespoonfuls of susrar, lump of butter size of a 
walnut ; flavor to taste with nutmeg and cinnamon. Bake in a very 
slow oven four hours ; when it commences to brown on top stir well. 
Serve cold. 

94 



Puddings 

iiiniiniiiiiiiiiinMiiiiiiuiirniinininiiniiriiiiiniiiMnniiiiNiniuiiiniiiiiiMiriiiuirMiiiiiiiiNiiiiiiiiiiiiiuiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiriiiiiJiiiiiiiiriiiiiiMiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiriiiMiiiiiiiiMiiiiiiniiiiiiiii 

NOONDAY DESSERT 

FOR SCHOOL CHILDREN Mrs. Minnie A. Watkins 

Hot steamed rice served with rich canned peaches, and cream, 
either plain or whipped. Serve English walnut meats with same. 

MOTHER'S RICE PUDDING Mrs. F. E. Lyons 

One quart milk; three tablespoonfuls rice; three tablespoonfuls 
sugar ; one teaspoonful vanilla. Put in a very slow oven and bake from 
two and one-half hours to three hours. (If heated on top of stove 
before putting in oven, it will save time baking.) 

HONEYCOMB PUDDING Mrs. C. A. Bowman 

One-half cup brown sugar; one-half cup milk; one cup molasses; 
one teaspoonful soda; two eggs; tablespoonful butter; one cup flour. 
Bake and serve with whipped cream or hard sauce. 

INDIVIDUAL PUDDINGS Miss Nora Edmonds 

One-half cupful flour ; one-fourth cupful sugar ; one-fourth cupful 
butter ; one pint of milk and five eggs. Mix flour and sugar, add milk 
and cook in double boiler until smooth. Remove from stove and put 
in butter. When cold add beaten yolks of eggs and fold in stiffly 
beaten whites last. Put in buttered pans and bake in water. 

Sauce: One-fourth cupful butter; one-half cupful powdered 
sugar and four tablespoonfuls cream added. 

TAPIOCA CREAM Mrs. A. H. Schweizer 

Soak one tablespoonful of pearl tapioca until soft in enough water 
to cover it. This will require several hours. Put it into a double 
boiler with a cupful of water and cook until the pearls are clear ; drain 
off the water and stir in half a pint of grape juice heated, one table- 
spoonful sugar, and cook ten minutes longer. Serve with cream when 
cold. 

ENGLISH PUDDING Mrs. William Molt 

One-half pound suet; one quart milk; two eggs; one pound cur- 
rants; one pound raisins; one cup nut meats, chopped fine; two tea- 
spoonfuls baking powder; one teaspoonful salt and flour enough to 
make a stiff batter. Steam for four to five hours. Serve with foam 
sauce. 

Foam Sauce: White of one egg; enough confectionery sugar to 
make stiff and enough hot water to make it smooth. 

ORANGE PUDDING Mrs. H. B. Rairden 

In bottom of pudding dish lay slices of cake ; cover with slices 
of oranges. Make a custard of one small cup sugar ; one tablespoonful 
corn starch; one pint of milk and a small piece of butter. Pour over 
the cake and oranges and bake. 

05 



Puddings 

iiniiiiiiiii MiMiiMiHiiniiininiMiiiiiniiiiMMHniMMUiiinunniHiJiinininiiniinMiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiitiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiniiiiiiii 

ENGLISH PUDDING Miss J. Eliza Ball 

One cup molasses; one-half cup sugar; one-half cup butter; two 
eggs; one cup milk. Spice and fruit. Flour enough to make a stiff 
batter. Soda and cream of tartar or baking powder as preferred. 

Liquid Pudding Sauce : Beat one egg and one cup of white sugar 
to a froth. Make a very thin batter with one pint of water and 
butter the size of an egg. Pour butter boiling hot over egg and sugar 
just as it goes to the table. 

CHRISTMAS PUDDING Mrs. Joel H. Norton 

Chop the meats from one pound English walnuts ; chop one pound 
figs ; one pound raisins seeded ; one cup suet. Rub the above well in 
flour; grate one nutmeg into three cups flour and one teaspoonful salt. 
Moisten with one cup milk. Dissolve well one teaspoonful soda in 
one cup molasses, and add last with one tablespoonful brandy. Dip 
a square of cloth in boiling water ; then quickly flour center. Mold in 
form of a ball and tie securely with string. Boil three or four hours 
in boiling water in very large kettle or boiler. Hang up to dry and 
when thoroughly dry place in jar with an apple to keep from molding. 
Make a week or two before you wish to use it. Boil it in boiling hot 
water for one hour when ready to use. Any sauce will do, but whipped 
cream sweetened with maple sugar is delicious. Brandy can be 
poured over pudding and set on fire if you wish, if served at table. 

NUT PUDDING Mrs. R. E. P. Kline 

Two cups flour; one-half cup sugar; two teaspoonfuls baking 
powder; one-half teaspoonful salt; two eggs well beaten; one cup 
milk; one and one-half cups English walnuts blanched and broken or 
chopped; one-third cup melted butter. Grease mold well and steam 
three hours. 

Sauce : One and one-half cups sugar and three-fourths cup water 
boiled until it threads. Then pour over the well beaten yolks of three 
eggs, stirring all the time. When cool, add flavoring and two cups 
whipped cream. 

NUT PUDDING Miss Julia Hunt 

Two cups boiling water ; one and three-fourths cups brown sugar, 
boil ten minutes. Two and one-half tablespoonfuls (heaping) corn 
starch mixed well with one-third cup cold water ; add to boiling syrup ; 
boil a few minutes until mixture thickens, then add one-half cup 
broken walnut meats and vanilla. Pour into molds and chill. Raisins 
and currants may be added if desired. Serve with cream or whipped 
cream. 

PUDDING SAUCE Mrs. R. F. Morrow 

One cup brown sugar; one-fourth cup butter; yolks of two eggs; 
one-half cup cream; cook to a custard. Add beaten whites, and one- 
fourth cup brandy. 

96 



Pnddings 

iinMiiniiMiiiiiiiiiiiiniiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiuiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiinnnii 

PUDDING SAUCE Mrs. Weatherell 

Blend one tablespoonful butter, one cup sugar and white of one 
egg (do not beat egg separately). Dissolve one tablespoonful corn 
starch and a little salt and add to one pint of boiling water. Let 
cook ten minutes. Then add the butter, egg and sugar, and whip 
until foamy. Flavor to taste. 

PUDDING SAUCE Mrs. H. D. Sheldon 

Two eggs; one cup powdered sugar; one cup cream; a pinch of 
salt. Beat eggs and gradually add sugar until a smooth creamy con- 
sistency. Just before serving add whipped cream. 

FRUIT SAUCE Mrs. May F. Kenfield 

For steamed or baked puddings : One-half cup of butter and one 
and one-half cups of powdered sugar; cream together and add yolk 
of one egg. Then to this add a cupful of crushed strawberries or any 
fruit in season. 

HARD SAUCE Mrs. W. D. Hurlbut 

Four tablespoonfuls butter; eight of powdered sugar; frothed 
white of one egg; half a glass of wine. Cream butter and sugar to- 
gether ; add wine, then white of the egg. Set in a cool place to harden. 
Grate nutmeg over top. 

GRAPE SAUCE 

Remove the pulps of the grapes from the skins, boil the pulp until 
the seeds can be separated, strain through a collander, add the skins, 
and boil five minutes, after which add two-thirds the amount in sugar. 
Boil twenty minutes, stirring constantly. 

STRAWBERRY SAUCE 

One-half cup butter; one cup sugar; then add one cup crushed 
strawberries. This can be made only in strawberry season. 



07 



Puddings 

iiiiiiiii I iiiiiiiiiiiii iniiii Miiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiniiiii mill iiiiiii inim ■■■■ ■ ■■■■"■■■i iiiiniiiiininm n iiiiiiiiiiiiniiniiiiu 



98 



FROZEN DISHES 



'Seek roses in December, ices in June." 

— ^Byron. 



NESSELRODE PUDDING Miss Agnes Seiber 

Three cups milk; one and one-half cups sugar; yolks five eggs; 
one-half teaspoonful salt; one pint cream; one-fourth cup pineapple 
syrup ; one and one-half cup prepared French chestnuts. Make cus- 
tard of first four ingredients, strain, cool, add cream, pineapple syrup 
and chestnuts ; then freeze. To prepare chestnuts, shell, cook in boil- 
ing water until soft, and force through a strainer. Line a two-quart 
melon mold with part of the mixture ; to remainder add one-half cup 
candied fruit cut in small pieces, one-quarter cup Sultana raisins, and 
eight chestnuts broken in pieces, first soaked several hours in Mara- 
schino syrup. Fill mould, cover, pack in salt and ice, and let stand 
two hours. Serve with whipped cream, sweetened and flavored with 
Maraschino syrup. 

MACAROON ICE CREAM Mrs. G. Shelly 

Roll until fine one-half pound dried macaroons ; add one-half cup 
sherry wine, let stand three hours. Whip one and one-half pints 
heavy cream until solid, then fold in macaroons. Cook one cup of 
sugar and one-half cup water for two minutes ; cool and add to one 
quart thin cream, combine mixtures, add three-fourths tablespoonful 
each vanilla and almond extracts and a pinch of salt. Freeze, pack 
in mold and let stand in ice and salt from two to three hours. 

FROZEN PEACHES Miss B. L. Chandler 

One can or twelve large peaches, two coffee cupfuls sugar; one 
pint water and the whites of three eggs beaten to a stiff froth ; break 
the peaches rather fine and stir all the ingredients together ; freeze the 
whole into form. 

STRAWBERRY ICE CREAM 

Three pints thin cream; two boxes berries; two cups sugar; few 
grains salt. Wash and hull berries, sprinkle with sugar, cover and 
let stand two hours. Mash, and squeeze through cheese-cloth; then 
add salt. Freeze cream to consistency of mush, add gradually fruit 
juice, and finish freezing. 

99 



Frozen Dishes 

iiiiniuinNiuiMnniiniinJiiiiiinnnriniiiiiiinininniMiiiniiiiiiiiHiiiiniriiiniuiiniiiiiiiMiMinininriiniHniiiniiinniiiiinniiiiiiiniiiriiiiiiniiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiii 

PEACH ICE CREAM Mrs. R. J. Roulston 

One quart peaches, one pint milk, two cups sugar, one pint cream. 

Put sugar in peaches and dissolve before sifting. Mix and rub through 

a potato ricer after sugar is dissolved. Add milk and cream. Freeze. 

CHOCOLATE ICE CREAM 

One quart thin cream ; one cup sugar ; few grains salt ; one and 
one-half squares Baker's Chocolate or one-fourth cup prepared cocoa; 
one tablespoonful vanilla. Melt chocolate, and dilute with hot water 
to pour easily, add to cream; then add sugar, salt and flavoring, and 
freeze. 

FIG ICE CREAM Mrs. George Lomax 

Three cups milk ; one cup sugar ; yolks five eggs ; one teaspoonful 
salt ; one pound figs, finely chopped ; one and one-half cups heavy 
cream ; whites five eggs ; one tablespoonful vanilla ; two tablespoonfuls 
brandy. Make custard of yolks of eggs, sugar and milk ; strain, add 
figs, cool and flavor. Add whites of eggs beaten until stiff and heavy 
cream beaten until stiff ; freeze and mold. 

ICE CREAM Mrs. Everett Maynard 

One quart cream, one pint milk, two eggs, two cups sugar, one- 
half cup flour. Sift flour and sugar; beat eggs and milk and cook in 
double boiler. Strain, and add vanilla to taste. 

PINEAPPLE CREAM 

Two cups water ; one cup sugar ; one can grated pineapple ; two 
cups cream; make syrup by boiling sugar and water fifteen minutes; 
strain, cool, and add pineapple, and freeze to a mush. Fold in whip 
from cream ; let stand thirty minutes before serving. Serve in frappe 
glasses and garnish with candied pineapple. 

MAPLE PARFAIT Mrs. Earl Combs 

One cup of maple syrup ; three eggs ; a pinch salt ; two cups 
whipped cream ; one teaspoonful lemon .iuice ; beat eggs very light, 
bring maple syrup to boiling point ; pour it on the esrgs, beating while 
pouring. Cook all together until thick, then set aside to cool. When 
cool, add whipping cream, mix thoroughly, turn into mold, cover 
closely and bury in ice and salt for three hours. 

ANGEL PARFAIT Mrs. Frank A. Simmons 

Boil together one-half cup sugar and one-half cup water until a 
soft ball can be formed. "Whip whites of three eggs until foamy but 
not stiff; pour syrup in a fine stream over them, beating until cold. 
Add one tablespoonful vanilla. Fold in one pint thick cream, beaten 
stiff. Turn into a quart mold and pack in salt and ice for four hours. 
Serve in high glasses and decorate with candied cherries. 

100 



Frozen Dishes 

iiiuiiimiiniiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiHiimiiiiiiniiiiiiiiiiiiiimiiitiiiiiiiiniMiiiiiiiimiiiiiiiiimiiNiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiniiiiMinii^ iiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiniii iiiiiii iiiiiiininiiiii 

CAFE PARPAIT L. E. Kennedy 

One pint whipping cream ; two tablespoonfuls black coffee ; sugar 
to taste. Whip until stiff; put into a colander to drain. Pack in ice 
for three hours. 

GRAPE PARPAIT 

Put one cup of sugar over the fire with half a cup of grape-juice, 
bring to a boil and cook until it will spin a thread from the tip of the 
spoon. Have ready the yolks of three eggs, beaten well, pour the 
grape-juice syrup upon it, and add two cups of whipped cream. Turn 
into a mold, pack in ice, salt and leave for three hours. 

FROZEN PUDDING Mrs. K. T. Gary 

Two-third quart milk, two tablespoonfuls flour, two tablespoonfuls 
gelatine, two eggs, one pint cream, two cups granulated sugar, one- 
half pound apricots or cherries, vanilla to taste. Soak gelatine in 
warm water two hours. Put milk in double boiler and scald. Stir 
eggs, flour and one cup of sugar together and add to milk. Cook 
twenty minutes. After it is cold add gelatine, cup of sugar, cream and 
vanilla. Freeze. 

BISQUE Mrs. Henry Thayer 

One pint of cream whipped ; three eggs beaten separately ; one and 
one-half pints of sugar ; one tablespoonful vanilla, stir gently together, 
put into ring mold and pack in ice and salt for five or six hours. 

FROZEN FRXHT COCKTAILS 

Peel, seed and chop three large oranges ; shred or chop one fresh 
pineapple or a can of the fruit; peel and mince fine three bananas. 
Pour over all one cupful of grapejuice, sweeten the mixture to taste, 
and turn into a freezer. The fruit must not be frozen too hard, but it 
should be well chilled and partially congealed. Serve in fruit cock- 
tail glasses, with or without whipped cream on top. 

GRAPE WATER ICE 

Boil one quart of water and one pound of granulated sugar for 
five minutes without stirring after the boil is reached. Add to this 
two cupfuls of grapejuice, the juice of two oranges and of two lemons, 
and the grated peel of one of each fruit. Turn into a freezer and 
freeze slowly. 

PINEAPPLE SHERBET 

Soak a tablespoonful of gelatine into two tablespoonfuls of cold 
water and pour over this one pint of boiling water. Set aside until 
cold. Add to it one cupful of sugar, one can of chopped or shredded 
pineapple, and half a pint of grapejuice. Freeze. Serve in sherbet 
glasses. 

101 



Frozen Dishes 

iiiiiiiiniiiiinii iiiiiiiiiiiiiinriiiiiiiii MiiiiiiiiimiiiiiiiiiiiimiiiiniMiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiimiiiMiiiimiiiiimiiimiiiiiiiiimiiiiiiiiiiiiiiimmimiiiinmmiiiiiiiiiimim 

CHOCOLATE SAUCE FOR ICE CREAM Mrs. E. Oliver 

Two squares bitter chocolate; one cup hot water; one-half cup 
sugar; one teaspoonful vinegar; pinch of salt and flavoring, boil ten 
minutes. 

TEA SHERBET Mrs. A. H. Wagoner 

Make half a pint of Ceylon tea ; after five minutes standing, drain 
off the tea and put it aside until cold. Add one pint of grapejuice, 
half a cupful of white sugar, and turn it into a freezer. When half 
frozen, put in a dozen quartered Maraschino cherries, and continue to 
freeze until the mixture is so stiff that the dasher will not turn. Pack 
for an hour before using. 

FRUIT SHERBET 

One-half envelope Knox sparkling gelatine; one orange; one and 
one-half cups sugar ; one lemon ; three cups rich milk. Grate the out- 
side of both orange and lemon. Squeeze out all the .iuice, add to this 
the Ruear. When readv to freeze, stir in the milk slowly to prevent 
curdling. Take part of a cup of milk, add the gelatine. After stand- 
ing five minutes, place in a pan of water (hot) until dissolved, then 
stir into the rest of the milk and fruit juice. Freeze. This makes a 
large allowance for five persons. 

APRICOT SHERBET Miss Maude Higgins 

One quart apricots; one quart milk; one pound sugar. Put fruit 
through soup sieve. Then mix all together and freeze in ice cream 
freezer. 

MILE SHERBET Mrs. Harry Hankins 

One and one-half quarts milk, one cup cream, one pint sugar. 
Partly freeze. Add juice of three lemons and two oranares, whites of 
two eggs, beaten stiff. Turn freezer slowly until frozen. 

A DELICIOUS SHERBET 

Whip one-half pint cream very stiff, sweeten with confectionery 
sugrar ; set away to chill. Chop fine one large banana, one orange, one- 
half cup English walnuts, one-half cup preserved pineapple, one-half 
large marshmallow. Just before serving beat the fruit and nut mix- 
ture through the cream and serve at once in sherbet cups with a cherry 
on top. Enough for six persons. 

MAPLE MOUSSE 

Yolks four eggs beaten very light ; heat one cup of maple syrup 
in double boiler, when hot stir into the beaten yolks, and put back into 
double boiler and cook until thick. When cold mix lightly with one 
pint of cream whipped. Turn into mold and pack in ice and salt for 
four hours. 

102 



Frozen Dislies 

iitiiiiiiiuiiiiiiiiiiniiniuiiiiiiiiiiuiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiHiiiiiiiiiiiiiuiiiuiiniiHiiiiiiniiiiiiuiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiuiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiinniiiiiiiiinininiiu 

PEACH MOUSSE Mrs. J. H. Shanley 

Whip one pint of thick cream until it is fluffy; add one cupful 
of sugar and one teaspoonful vanilla. Mash up a pint can of peaches 
and mix them in with the cream. Pour this mixture into a mold that 
has been wet with cold water. Pack the mold in equal parts of 
chopped ice and coarse salt and let it stand for four hours, when it 
will be ready to use. 

MAPLE MOUSSE Mrs. T. D. McMicken 

Two-thirds cup maple syrup; two eggs; one-third quart cream; 
beat yolks ten minutes, add syrup gradually and put in double boiler 
and cook twenty minutes. Beat whites till dry, pour cooked yolks and 
syrup over while hot, and set to cool. Whip cream and pour cold 
cooked syrup over, being careful to only fold in. Put in mold and 
pack in ice and salt, half and half, two or three hours. 

GRAPE MOUSSE 

Whip stiff one pint of cream, sweetening it as you whip it with 
three-quarters of a cup of powdered sugar. When the cream is stiff 
and firm, fold in half a cupful of grapejuice, pack the mixture in a 
mold in ice and salt, cover this closely, and let it stand for three or 
four hours. 

CAFE MOUSSE L. E. Kennedy 

Yolks of five eggs; one-half cupful coffee; one cupful sugar; one 
pint whipped cream. Pack in freezer and let stand four or five hours. 

CAFE MOUSSE Genevieve Macklem 

One pint of whipped cream, very stiff, one-half cup hot coffee, 
very strong; one-half cup sugar; two eggs, yolks beaten with sugar; 
pour coffee on yolks and stir until cool or beat. Pour this on whipped 
cream and add whites of two eggs well beaten. Pour into mold, cover 
tight, and pack in salt and ice for five or six hours. 

ORANGE PUNCH 

Juice of six oranges and grated rind of one. Mix with one pint 
water, one cup sugar and one cup cherries, bananas and chopped nuts. 
After this is well frozen, take out dasher and beat in one-half pint of 
whipped cream. Repack and let stand for three or four hours. 

COCOA FRAPPE 

Mix half a pound of cocoa and three cupfuls of sugar; cook with 
two cupfuls of boiling water until smooth; add to three and a half 
quarts of scalding milk (scalded with cinnamon bark) ; cook for ten 
minutes. Beat in the beaten whites of two eggs mixed with a cupful 
of sugar and a pint of whipped cream. Cool, flavor with vanilla ex- 
tract, and freeze. Serve in cups. Garnish with whipped cream. 

103 



Frozen Dishes 

iiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiii I iiiriii I iiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiitiiiiMiiiiiiniiitiiiiiiiiiiitiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiimiiiiniiiiiiiiitiiiiiiiiiniiiiiiiiiiiiiittimiiimiiiiiiiiiiiNinuiiiii 

PINEAPPLE FRAPPE 

Two cups water ; one cup sugar ; juice three lemons ; two cups ice- 
water ; one can shredded pineapple or one pineapple, shredded. Make 
syrup by boiling water and sugar fifteen minutes ; add pineapple and 
lemon juice; cool, strain, add ice-water, and freeze to a mush, using 
equal parts ice and salt. If fresh fruit is used, more sugar will be 
required. 

FROZEN EGG-NOG Mrs. Will J. Davis 

Put one quart of milk, a good sized stick of cinnamon ; six cloves 
and six whole allspice in a double boiler and scald. Beat the yolks 
of a dozen eggs until thick and light, gradually adding two cups of 
sugar, beating constantly. Add one-half teaspoonfid each of salt and 
nutmeg. Strain spices from milk and pour milk slowly into the egg 
mixture, continue beating. Cook over hot water, stirring constantly, 
until thick enough. Remove from stove, cool, then add three pints 
thick cream and freeze slightly. When about to serve add one-fourth 
cup each of Jamaica rum and cognac. 

FRUIT PUNCH Mamie Johnson 

Two cups sugar; one-half cup orange juice; one cup water; one- 
half cup lemon juice; one cup strawberry juice; one cup pineapple 
juice and one-half cup maraschino cherries. Boil sugar and water to 
a syrup and add the fruit juices. Let stand twenty minutes and strain 
and chill. Add whole cherries. Sweeten to taste or weaken if neces- 
sary. Serve ice cold. 

CRANBERRY PUNCH Mrs. Frank Germaine 

Stew one quart of berries until soft. Pass through a sieve; add 
to pulp juice of three' oranges, one tablespoonful liquid from mara- 
schino cherries and sugar to sweeten. Cook twenty minutes, cool and 
freeze. Garnish each cup with a teaspoon of whipped cream, candied 
cherries and a mint leaf. Set sherbet cups on plates and serve with 
lady fingers. 

WATERMELON ICE Mrs. Charles S. Clark 

Put watermelon pulp in potato ricer and squeeze juice out of it. 

For one quart of liquid add juice of two lemons and sugar to taste. 

Freeze. . _ . ^M.Ai 

LEMON ICE Sue C. Woodman 

Juice four lemons; two cups sugar; strain juice into sugar; let 
stand two hours on ice ; one pint milk or cream. Freeze. 

LEMON ICE Mrs. Alice Snively 

Four cups water, two cups sugar, three-fourths cup lemon juice. 
Make a syrup of the sugar and water. Add lemon juice. Freeze. 

104 



Frozen Dishes 

iiiimiiiiiiiiiniiirmiminiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiHiiiiiiiiiiniiiiiiiiinininiiniiiiiiiiiHiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiniuuiiiniiniiiitiiiiiiminiiiniiiiiiiiin 

ORANGE ICE 

Four cups water; two cups sugar; two cups orange juice; one- 
fourth cup lemon juice ; grated rind of two oranges. Make syrup by 
boiling water and sugar for twenty minutes; add fruit juice and 
grated rind ; cool, strain and freeze. 

ALMOND ICE 

Two pints milk; eight ounces cream, two ounces orange-flower 
water; eight ounces sweet almonds; four ounces bitter almonds. 
Pound all in marble mortar, pouring in from time to time a few drops 
of water ; when thoroughly pounded add the orange-flower water and 
half of the milk ; pass this, tightly squeezed, through a cloth ; boil the 
rest of the milk with the cream and keep stirring it with a wooden 
spoon ; as soon as it is thick enough, pour in the almond milk ; give it 
one boiling, take it off and let cool in a bowl or pitcher before pour- 
ing it into the mold for freezing. 

FROZEN LEMONADE Mrs. Frederick T. Hoyt 

Boil one pound of sugar in one pint water for five minutes, add 
one pint of cold water, the grated rind of one lemon, and the strained 
juice of four. Turn into a freezer, and turn until frozen like snow, 
serve in lemonade glasses, and topped with a piece of candied or fresh 
lemon. 

LEMON ICE Belle Shaw 

Juice of four lemons ; whites four eggs ; two cups sugar ; two cups 
water; one tablespoonful gelatine. Add gelatine to whites of eggs; 
mix sugar, water and lemon juice together, then add to beaten whites 
of eggs, and freeze. 

THREE-OF-A-KIND ICE L. E. Kennedy 

Three oranges; three lemons; three cupfuls sugar; the whites of 
three eggs and three cupfuls water. Freeze. This will serve twenty. 



1.05 



Frozen Dishes 

iiiiiiiiiniiiiiiii nil iiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiii III! iiiiiii iiiiiiiiiii iiiiiiiiiiiiiiiii iiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiit I I iiiiiiiimiiiimiimiimmm 



106 



BREAD 



''Here is bread which strengthens men's hearts, 
And, therefore, is called 'The Staff of Life 



f >} 



SPOON BREAD Mary S. VanzwoU 

One cup buttermilk ; one cup boiled rice ; one-half cup corn meal ; 
one egg ; one tablespoonf ul melted lard or butter ; one-half teaspoonf ul 
soda in water j salt. Bake in medium oven thirty minutes. 

OATMEAL BREAD Mrs. F. W. Bentley 

One cake compressed yeast; one quart flour, half white and half 
oatmeal flour; one tablespoonf ul brown sugar; one teaspoonf ul salt; 
one tablespoonful drippings of bacon, melted (hot) ; one-half cup 
molasses; put in half water and half milk enough to make a stiff 
batter. Let it rise and mold into two loaves. Let rise to half its size, 
and bake in moderate oven thirty-five minutes. 

NUT BREAD Mrs. Stevens 

Four cups flour; one cup sugar; two cups nuts; two and one-half 
cups milk; one egg; four teaspoonf uls baking powder; one teaspoon- 
ful salt. Mix dry ingredients together. Beat egg, add milk to egg 
and pour in the flour, stirring as little as possible. Make in two loaves 
and let stand covered twenty minutes. Then bake in moderate oven 
forty minutes. 

NUT BREAD Mrs. T. M. Butler 

Sift four cups of flour, one cup of light brown sugar sifted three 
times, one cup of pecans chopped, four teaspoonfuls of baking pow- 
der ; one teaspoonful salt. All dry mixture work with hands, add one 
and one-half cups of sweet milk, one egg beaten light, place in pans, 
let stand twenty minutes. Then bake forty-five minutes. 

NUT BREAD Mrs. H. D. Sheldon 

Two cups of graham flour; one cup of white flour; three tea- 
spoonfuls of baking powder ; one teaspoonful salt ; one-third cup sugar, 
sifted together. One tablespoonful melted butter; one and three- 
fourths cup of milk ; one cup of English walnuts. Mix in order given. 
Bake in bread tin about an hour. 

107 



Bread 

iiiiiiiiiiininiiiiiiiiiiniMiiiiiiiiiiiiiiniiiiiiiiuiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiuiiiniiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiMiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiii^ 

NUT BREAD Mrs. W. F. Barnard 

Three cups flour; four even teaspoonfuls baking powder; one cup 
sugar ; one teaspoonf ul salt ; one egg ; one and one-half cups sweet milk ; 
one cup nut meats. Bake slowly one hour. 

NUT LOAF Mrs. R. McNeU 

Two cups of flour; three-fourths cup of sugar; one-half tea- 
spoonful salt; three-fourths cup walnuts crushed; three teaspoonfuls 
baking powder; one egg. Beat egg with milk; add to the mixed and 
sifted dry ingredients, let rise half an hour, and bake. 

GRAHAM BREAD Mrs. John T. Gilchrist 

One cup white flour; two cups graham flour; one teaspoonf ul 
salt; one teaspoonf ul soda; one-half cup dark molasses; one and one- 
half cups sweet milk; one cup seeded raisins. Bake in a slow oven 
for forty-five minutes. 

RAISIN GRAHAM BREAD Mrs. Clara A. Baldwin 

One-half cup to one cup seeded raisins; one egg; two-thirds cup 
molasses ; one rounding teaspoonf ul soda dissolved in a little hot water ; 
two cups milk; four cups graham flour. Mix and bake one and one- 
half hours in slow oven. 

RAISIN BREAD Mrs. T. D. McMicken 

One and one-half cups sour milk; one and one-half teaspoonfuls 
soda; one-fourth cup molasses; one-half teaspoonf ul salt; graham 
flour till stiff enough to drop from spoon. One-half cup raisins. 

SOUTHERN BROWN BREAD Sue C. Woodman 

One and one-half cups sour milk ; one level teaspoonf ul soda ; scant 
cup brown sugar; two cups graham flour; one cup raisins; one tea- 
spoonful salt ; bake one hour. 

BOSTON BROWN BREAD Mrs. Emma C. Portman 

Two cups milk, sour ; two cups graham flour ; one cup wheat flour ; 
three tablespoonfuls molasses or sugar; one teaspoonful soda. Take 
pound baking powder cans, lard them well and fill two-thirds full ; put 
on lids and set in a kettle which is half full of boiling water ; put on 
the kettle lid and keep boiling three hours; replenishing often with 
boiling water. 

BOSTON BROWN BREAD NO. 2 Mrs. M. A. Stewart 

One cup sweet milk; one cup sour milk; one cup New Orleans 
molasses ; one-half teaspoonful salt ; one teaspoonful soda ; one cup corn 
meal; two cups graham flour. Add a few raisins which greatly im- 
prove the flavor. Put in a five-pound pail, set in cold water (one 
quart). From time it commences to boil let cook for three hours. 

108 



Bread 

iitiiiiiiiiiiiHiiiiitiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiii iiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiii iiiiiiiiiiiii I iiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiniiiiiii iiiiiiiiiii 

MY MOTHER'S BROWN BREAD Mrs. Grant Beebe 

One cup molasses ; one cup milk (sweet or sour) ; one cup of gra- 
ham flour and one cup com meal, stiff ; two cups raisins, two eggs ; two 
even teaspoonfuls soda ; one tablespoonful brown sugar ; one teaspoon- 
ful salt. Bake one hour in moderate oven. 

JOHNNY CAKE Mary S. Vanzoll 

One cup sweet milk ; two eggs ; one dessert spoonful of sugar ; 
one-half cup yellow corn meal; one-half cup flour to make like cake 
batter; one-fourth cup melted butter; salt; heaping teaspoonful bak- 
ing powder. 

CORN CAKE Mrs. J. L. Putnam 

Scald one cup white corn meal with one pint of milk; while hot 
add one tablespoonful of buttered bread crumbs, one of sugar and a 
little salt. The yolks and whites of three eggs beaten separately. Pour 
into a well buttered frying pan and bake twenty minutes in a hot 
oven. 

CORN MEAL GEMS Mrs. K. Larson 

One-half cup corn meal ; one cup flour ; three teaspoonfuls baking 
powder; one tablespoonful sugar; one tablespoonful melted butter; 
one-half teaspoonful salt; three-fourths cup milk; one egg. Mix and 
sift dry ingredients; add milk gradually and egg well beaten and 
melted butter. Bake in hot oven in buttered gem pans' for twenty-five 
minutes. 

CORN GEMS Josephine Hurlbut 

Put two cups of corn meal into a bowl ; pour over one cup of boil- 
ing milk ; add a tablespoonful butter ; cover the bowl, allow the mixture 
to stand until cool; add another cup of cold milk; the yolks of two 
eggs, well beaten; one-half teaspoonful salt; half cupful flour, and 
two teaspoonfuls baking powder. Beat thoroughly, then fold in the 
well beaten whites of two eggs. Bake in gem pans in a moderately 
quick oven thirty minutes. 

BAKING POWDER BISCUITS Mrs. H. B. Rairden 

Thirteen tablespoonfuls flour; one teaspoonful salt; four level 
teaspoonfuls baking powder; one tablespoonful lard; mix together 
with milk enough to make dough. 

PARKER HOUSE ROLLS Mrs. H. R. Foster 

Scald one pint of milk; one yeast cake put in warm water; two 
tablespoonfuls sugar ; two tablespoonfuls butter ; one teaspoonful salt ; 
three cups flour; mix. Raise until double; then add flour to make 
soft dough. Raise again, and make in roll pans and raise again. 
Bake in hot oven. 

109 



Bread 

iiiiiniiiiinii nil iiuiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiinuiiiiMiiiitiiiiiiiiiiiiii iiii niiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiii mil iiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiniiii 

OATMEAL GEMS Mrs. Henry Grossman 

Two tablespoonfuls left-over cooked oatmeal, beat in one egg, 
one-half cup sweet milk, one teaspoonful baking powder, one scant 
cup flour, pinch, salt. Bake in hot oven in iron gem pans fifteen 
minutes. 

LIGHT BISCUIT Mrs. A. J. Atwater 

Take a piece of bread dough that will make as many biscuit as 
you wish; lay it out rather flat in a bowl; break into it two eggs, 
one-half cup sugar; one-half cup butter. Mix this thoroughly with 
enough flour to keep it from sticking to hands and board. KJnead 
well for fifteen to twenty minutes; make it into small biscuits; place 
in greased pan and let rise until they are even with top of pan. Bake 
in quick oven for half an hour. 

POTATO BISCUIT Mrs. H. S. Mount 

One cup of milk; three potatoes (cooked and riced) ; one table- 
spoonful lard; one teaspoonful butter; one and one-half teaspoonful 
salt; two teaspoonfuls sugar. Let cool and add one cake j'^east dis 
solved in lukewarm water. Two eggs well beaten; four cups flour; 
let raise three hours. Then roll out about one-half inch thickness. 
Butter, cut, turn over with silver knife and shape like parker house 
rolls. Raise two hours more and bake about ten minutes. Will make 
about fifty rolls. 

SOUTHERN POTATO BISCUITS Mrs. GranvUle Richardson 

Three cups flour ; three teaspoonfuls baking powder ; one teaspoon- 
ful salt ; one cup hot mashed potatoes ; three tablespoonfuls butter or 
other shortening; one-half cup milk; one egg. Mash the potatoes 
through a strainer, add salt, milk, butter or shortening and then the 
egg well beaten. Beat until smooth, then sift in the flour and baking 
powder. Turn on a floured board, cut with small biscuit cutter, put 
into hot oven and bake twenty minutes. 

"ABBIE'S" CORN BREAD Mrs. Edward E. Swadener 

One cupful corn meal; one cupful flour; one-third cupful sugar; 
one teaspoonful baking powder; salt. Put these through flour sieve, 
add one tablespoonful melted butter. Beat one egg very light in a 
cup, add enough milk to fill the cup, stir this in the flour; then add 
one-half cup more of milk. Use your judgment about quantity of 
milk. Bake either in one pan or in muffin pan. 

MUFFINS Mrs. John M. Stahl 

Beat three eggs and add two cupfuls milk; one quart of flour; 
two heaping teaspoonfuls baking powder; one tablespoonful sugar; 
one teaspoonful salt; one tablespoonful melted lard put in the last 
thing. Bake twenty minutes in a hot oven. This makes eighteen 
muf&ns. 

110 



Bread 

iiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiniiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiMiiliiniiiiiiiiiiiiniiiiiiiiiiiiliiiiiiiiiiiiiiuiiiiiiiiinniiiinMiJniriiinjHiinniiiiiininiiiMHiuiiiiiiiiiiiiiniiiiiiiiniiiiii 

AFTERNOON TEA ROLLS Mrs. C. N. Eastman 

One cup hot mashed potatoes; one cup sugar; one cup melted 
butter; one cake compressed yeast; four eggs; one cup lukewarm 
water; flour enough to knead. Soak the cake of yeast in lukewarm 
water at noontime. Put sugar in bowl with mashed potatoes at 
same time. Then at night put these together. In the morning, add 
melted butter and eggs well beaten. Stir in enough flour to knead 
and let rise until light. Make into small tea rolls and let rise 
until very, very light. Bake twenty-five minutes in moderate oven. 
Cream powdered sugar and butter to a paste and spread on top of 
rolls just before serving. 

OATMEAL MUFFINS Dr. V. Racine 

One and one-fourth cups cooked oatmeal; one and one-fourth 
cup bran flour; two heaping tablespoonfuls white flour; one heaping 
teaspoonful baking powder; one saltspoon salt; two heaping 
tablespoonfuls cocoanut ; one-half cupful raisins (seeded) ; two eggs 
beaten light. Mix the eggs and cooked oatmeal; add the dry in- 
gredients. The dough should be very stiff. If too moist, use more 
bran. Bake in your gem pans or muffin rings in a moderate oven. 

BRAN MUFFINS Josephine Hurlbut 

Two cups bran; two cupfuls flour; two teaspoonfuls salt; two 
cupfuls sour milk or buttermilk ; one-half cup sugar ; one tablespoon- 
ful shortening; one egg; one and one-half teaspoonfuls baking soda; 
one teaspoonful baking powder; one-half cup water. Beat shorten- 
ing, egg and sugar together until creamy; to the sour milk add the 
soda dissolved in boiling water; then the bran, flour, salt, baking 
powder and the egg and sugar mixture. Mix thoroughly and divide 
into buttered gem pans and bake in a hot oven for twenty minutes. 
Sweet milk may be used by substituting three teaspoonfuls of baking 
powder for the soda and baking powder specified above. 

MUFFINS Mrs. Harry M. Boon 

One and three-fourths cups flour; one-half cup sugar; one egg; 
two teaspoonfuls baking powder and three-fourths cup milk. Stir all 
together and bake in muffin tins in hot oven. 

MUFFINS Mrs. Thomas H. Iglehart 

Two cups milk; two eggs; three cups flour; three spoons baking 
powder ; pinch salt. Beat eggs, add milk ; then flour, into which bak- 
ing powder has been put. Bake in hot oven. 

BLUEBERRY MUFFINS Esther Blade 

Beat one egg ; add one cup sweet milk ; two tablespoonfuls sugar ; 
one pinch of salt ; one and one-half cups of flour with two teaspoonfuls 
baking powder ; one cup blueberries floured. Grease tins. Bake in hot 
oven about twenty minutes. 

Ill 



Bread 

innininiiiiiiiniiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiuiiiiiiiiiiiniiniiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiuiiiiitiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiininiHiniiiiiHiiiMiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiniiiiiiiiiiniMii^ 

MUFFINS Mrs. George D. Milligan 

Big spoonful of shortening (butter or substitute) ; one egg ; three 
tablespoonfuls sugar; one cup milk; two cups flour; three teaspoon- 
fuls baking powder. Bake twenty or twenty-five minutes. 

COLD WATER MUFFINS Mrs. Edward E. Swadener 

One-half pint of cold water put in a bowl and break two eggs in 
it, beat it until it froths ; then add one cupful flour, one scant teaspoon- 
ful salt. Bake in a moderate oven forty-five minutes. 

SALLY LUNN Mrs. J. P. Cobb 

One cup milk. Quarter cup butter ; one-half cup sugar ; two eggs 
beaten separately; teaspoonful baking powder (sifted in the flour): 
enough flour to make the batter. Bake in quick oven. 

FRENCH COFFEE CAKE Mrs. H. P. Sieh 

One cup butter and lard mixed; one cup granulated sugar; two 
eggs ; one cup milk ; two cups flour (sifted) ; two teaspoonfuls baking 
powder; one teaspoonful vanilla; or one-half teaspoonful nutmeg to 
suit taste. Bake fifteen to twenty minutes. 

Frosting: One-half cup granulated sugar; one tablespoonful 
flour; one tablespoonful butter; one tablespoonful cinnamon; mix all 
together and spread over top of cake before baking. 

COFFEE CAKE Mrs. Crouch 

One egg; two tablespoonfuls each of butter and sugar; one cup 
milk; two cups flour; two teaspoonfuls baking powder. Put in pan, 
melt two tablespoonfuls butter and pour over the top, then sprinkle 
thickly with granulated sugar and cinnamon. 

CINNAMON CAKE Mrs. C. E. Upham 

One scant cup sugar; two eggs; one teaspoonful salt; one table- 
spoonful fat or substitute ; one cup milk ; two cups flour ; two tea- 
spoonfuls baking powder. Bake twenty minutes ; take out and spread 
butter on top ; also cinnamon and sugar, mixed. Put back in oven one 
minute. 

CINNAMON ROLLS Mrs. A. J. Atwater 

One quart bran ; one pint graham flour ; one teaspoonful salt ; two 
teaspoonfuls baking powder ; one-half teaspoonful soda ; one pint sour 
milk; scant half pint molasses; one tablespoonful melted butter; one 
cup nut meats. Bake one hour. 

BREAKFAST PUFFS Mrs. E. N. Wilder 

One pint sour milk ; one teaspoonful soda ; flour enough to make 
stiff enough to roll. Fry like doughnuts. Eat with syrup. 

112 



Bread 

iiiiiiiiiiiniiiiiiiiii nil Hill fill iiiiiiiiiiitiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiliiMiiiiiiiiiiiii IIIIIIIIIII1IIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIII nil innni 

TOAST PATTY CASES Mrs. A. J. Atwater 

Cut the crust from a small loaf of baker's bread; divide into two 
or two and one-half inch slices; toast on all six sides. With a sharp 
knife cut around the inside edge of one side and carefully scoop out 
the bread, leaving a bottom and four toast sides. You can brush the 
inside with melted butter and brown if you wish or use as it is. Use 
as patty shells. 

YORKSHIRE PUDDINa Mrs. J. L. Putnam 

Sift one even teaspoonful of salt and one of baking powder twice 
with a pint of flour. Beat two eggs light and add to two cups of 
milk; turn in the sifted flour and mix quickly. Have ready in a 
roasting pan six tablespoonfuls of fat reserved from the drippings 
from the roast of beef. Set it upon the upper grating of the oven. 
When it begins to bubble hard, pour the batter into it and cook 
quickly. Cut into squares and serve with the roast. 

YORKSHIRE PUDDING TO SERVE WITH ROAST BEEF 

Mrs. C. A. Carscadin 

Two cups of flour in a bowl with half a teaspoonful salt; beat 
three eggs and stir into the flour; add two cups milk; stir until 
smooth ; turn into a pan with some beef drippings and bake thirty to 
forty minutes. K beef is placed on a rack put the pudding under 
the roast. Cut in squares and serve with the roast. 

POPOVERS Mrs. W. I. Clock 

One cup of flour; one-fourth teaspoonful salt; seven-eighths cup 
of milk; two eggs; one-half teaspoonful of melted butter. Put all 
into a bowl together and beat for five minutes with egg beater. Grease 
muflSn pan well, bake in hot oven for thirty minutes. Oven must not 
be hot before putting popovers in. 

POPOVERS Mrs. R. F. Morrow 

Three eggs ; one-half teaspoonful salt — beat light ; one cup flour ; 
one cup milk. Bake one-half hour in hot buttered tins. Makes eight 
popovers. 

FRENCH PANCAKES Mrs. Charles T. Daily 

One cup flour ; three eggs, very well beaten separately ; a pinch of 
salt; milk enough to make a real thin batter. Have skillet very hot 
and greased and spread batter thin. 

BANANA PANCAKES Mrs. C. S. Junge 

Mash three bananas to a pulp. Beat two eggs well. Add two 
teaspoonfuls of sugar and pinch of salt. In two cups of sour milk 
put small teaspoonful of soda. Mix all together and stir in enough 
flour to make a thin batter and bake on a griddle. 

113 



Bread 

mill iiiriiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiniiniiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiii inn iiinniininniinininiininininiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiimijiiiiiiiiiiimiiiiiiini 

RAW POTATO PANCAKES - Mrs. B. R. Hornig 

Peel and grate about eight medium sized raw potatoes, add one 
scant teaspoonful salt, two well beaten eggs. Mix thoroughly. Fry 
in lard on hot griddle to a rich brown color on both sides. 

POTATO PANCAKES Mrs. F. B. Woodland 

Boil three medium sized potatoes. Dry and mash. Add two eggs, 
beaten; one cup flour; one cup milk; one-half teaspoonful salt; dash 
pepper; two teaspoonfuls baking powder. Fry in buttered pan. 

BREAD PANCAKES Mrs. E. R. Hornig 

Cover half a small loaf of stale bread with sour milk, let stand 
over night. Add one tablespoonful salt, two teaspoonfuls soda, two 
eggs, and enough flour to make proper consistency. Fry on hot griddle. 

SOFT WAFFLES Mrs. Thomas Meeks Butler 

Sift together one quart of flour, two teaspoonfuls of baking pow- 
der; one teaspoonful of sugar; one-half teaspoonful salt; mix in one 
tablespoonful of butter, add two well beaten eggs. Beating the yolks 
together, then the whites of the eggs to a stiff froth. Add the yolks 
and one and one-half pints of milk. Add the whites of the eggs after 
mixing the whole into a smooth batter not too thin and pour into 
well greased irons. 

WAFFLES Y. F. Hollenberger 

Mix one pint flour: one pint milk to a smooth paste. Add small 
cup butter, barely melted. Add to this the well beaten yolks of three 
eggs, then the beaten whites. Just before baking, add one teaspoon- 
ful baking powder, beat well for two minutes, and bake on very hot 
iron. 

WAFFLES Mrs. J. F. Nicols 

One pint of milk; one-half cup butter; three eggs; flour enough 
to make batter; salt; two heaping teaspoonfuls baking powder. Mix 
milk, butter, yolks of eggs — stir, then add flour and salt. Stir in 
beaten whites of eggs. Just before cooking add baking powder. Beat 
briskly. 

WAFFLES Mrs. Charles T. Daily 

Two cups flour; two teaspoonfuls baking powder; one teaspoon- 
ful salt; three tablespoonfuls melted butter; one and one-half cups 
milk; three egers. Sift dry ingredients, add yolks, well beaten, milk, 
butter and stiffly beaten whites. Beat well and cook on a hot waffle 
iron, well greased. 

114 



Bread 

liiiiiiiiiiimiiiiiiiiniiiiiiniiiimiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiininniiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiii iiiiiiiiiiiiiii iriririir iiiiiiiiiiiiiiiri iii iiiiiiiiiiiii iiiii mil 

CARRIE WATKINS' WAFFLES Bertha Z. Bisbee 

Three eggs; two cups milk; three tablespoonfuls melted butter; 
three cups flour; one teaspooiiful sugar; two teaspoonfuls baking 
powder ; pinch of salt. Beat whites and yolks separately ; add milk to 
yolks, then salt, sugar and butter, then flour and baking powder. 
Whe^ the iron is hot, fold in the well beaten whites of eggs and bake 
immediately. 

GLORIFIED HOE CAKES ^ Mrs. Archy S. Corken 

(This recipe won a $10.00 Tribune prize for wartime conservation 
recipes.) 

Two cups yellow cornmeal; one teaspoonful salt; three and one- 
half cups buttermilk ; cottage cheese ; one cup flour ; one tablespoonful 
sugar; one teaspoonful soda; green pepper. Sift together cornmeal, 
flour, salt and sugar into a bowl. Pour three cups buttermilk (or sour 
milk) over the sifted ingredients, and beat well. Dissolve one tea- 
spoonful soda in one cup of sour milk and beat thoroughly into the 
butter. Spread on well greased hot griddle and fry until little bubbles 
cover the surface. Turn quickly. Have ready some cottage cheese 
seasoned with salt and pepper in which has been mixed chopped green 
pepper or pimento. Spread one-half inch thick on top of hoe cake. Cut 
cake into quarters and serve on hot plate. This recipe makes four 
griddle size cakes. 

AMBER SYRUP Mrs. Harry M. Boon 

One cup brown sugar; two cups granulated sugar; two cups boil- 
ing water. Boil five minutes and when cool add ten drops vanilla. It 
is hard to distinguish this from maple syrup. 



115 



Bread 

iiiiiiiiiiiiiMiiiiiiiiiMiiiiniiiiiiniiiiiniiiiiiiiiiiiiiiinimiiiiiiiiiiniiiiiMiiiiiiitiiiiiiiniMiiitiiinniiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiniiiiiiiiitiinmiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiii 



lie 



CAKES 



'Now, now the mirth comes 
With the cake full of plums." 

— Herrick. 



MARSHMALLOW CAKE Mrs. J. H. Shanley 

One-half cup butter; one and one-half cups sugar; two and one- 
half cups flour; one-half cup milk; two level teaspoonfuls baking 
powder ; five eggs ; one teaspoonf ul vanilla. Bake in layers and spread 
with the marshmallow paste between layers and on top; also marsh- 
mallows cut in half. 

Marshmallow Paste: Three-fourths cup sugar; one-fourth cup 
milk, boiled together six minutes. Melt one-fourth pound marshmal- 
lows, add two tablespoonfuls water; combine with the boiled sugar 
and milk, add vanilla and beat until stiff enough to spread. 

GOLD CAKE Mrs. Charles S. Daily 

One and one-half cups sugar ; three-fourths cup butter ; four yolks 
of eggs ; three whites of eggs ; three-fourths cup milk ; two cups flour ; 
two teaspoonfuls baking powder; one teaspoonf ul flavoring. Cream 
butter and sugar, then add the beaten yolks of eggs, add flavoring to 
this, then add milk and flour alternately, first sifting flour and baking 
powder together. Beat the whites of eggs to a stiff froth and add last, 
folding them in gently. Bake in a loaf cake pan forty minutes in a 
modern oven. 

COCOANUT CREAM CAKE Mrs. H. S. Mount 

One-half cup butter; one and one-half cup sugar; one cup cold 
water; three cups sifted flour (sifted three times); two heaping 
teaspoonfuls baking powder ; whites four eggs beaten stiff ; flavor with 
vanilla. Cream butter and sugar. Add one-third water and beat 
thoroughly ; then add one cup flour and beat again. Add second one- 
third cup of water and second cup of flour and continue beating. 
Into last cup of flour add baking powder and add last one-third cup 
of water with the last cup of flour and beat thoroughly. Then flavor 
and fold in the beaten whites of eggs; carefully put in three layer 
tins. Grate a whole coooanut. Whip one pint of cream. After cakes 
are cool put whipped cream on first layer, then cover with freshly 
grated cocoanut. Continue the same until the last layer is well cov- 
ered with whipped cream, and then cocoanut. 

117 



Cakes 

MiiHnniniiuiininniniiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiHiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiin 

ORANGE CAKE Mrs. Martin K. Northam 

One-third cup butter; one cup sugar; grated rind of one orange; 
one-half cup milk or water ; one and one-half cups sifted pastry flour ; 
two level teaspoonfuls baking powder; yolks of two eggs, beaten 
light; whites of two eggs, beaten dry. This makes two small layers. 

Filling: The unbeaten white of one egg; add to this one-fourth 
cup orange pulp and juice, with the rotary egg beater gradually beat 
in one and one-half cups powdered sugar, beating it slowly. When 
that is stiff enough to hold its shape spread upon the cake. Long 
beating makes this icing spongy and white. 

EGGLESS CAKE Mrs. W. H. Muschlet 

One cup apple sauce, unsweetened; one teaspoonful soda; one 
cup of sugar; one-half cup butter; one and one-half cup flour — de- 
pends on consistency of apple sauce; one teaspoonful ground cinna- 
mon; one teaspoonful ground allspice; one-half teaspoonful cloves; 
one-half teaspoonful nutmeg ; one-half cup citron, cut in small pieces ; 
one or over cups of nuts. Mix flour, nuts and citron well. Cream 
butter and sugar till it pops; add apple sauce; which turns brown. 
Then add spices, flour, nuts and citron. Bake in moderate oven in 
flat pan about 35 minutes, probably 40 minutes. If preferred iced, cut 
in squares. Make double quantity, as the longer kept the better. 

LADY BALTIMORE CAKE Mrs. L. B. Maxwell 

Take one cupful of butter; two cupfuls sugar; three and one-half 
cupfuls of flour; one cupful sweet milk; whites of six eggs; two tea- 
spoonfuls baking powder; and one teaspoonful rose-water. Cream 
the butter, add the sugar gradually, beating continually; then the 
milk and flavoring; next the flour and baking powder and lastly 
the stiffly beaten whites of eggs, which should be folded into the 
dough. Bake in three layer cake tins in quite hot oven. To make the 
filling, dissolve three cups of sugar in one cupful boiling water; cook 
it until it threads ; then pour it onto the stiffly beaten whites of three 
eggs, stirring constantly. To this icing add one cupful of chopped 
raisins, one cupful of nutmeats (pecans preferred) and five figs cut 
into very thin strips. This makes enough icing for top and sides of 
cake. 

TUTTI PRUTTI CAKE Mrs. Wm. J. Maiden 

Two tablespoonfuls butter; one cupful sugar; one cupful milk; 
one egg ; two cupfuls flour ; two heaping teaspoonfuls baking powder ; 
one-half cupful dates (pitted and chopped) ; one-half cupful English 
walnuts, chopped; one-half cupful raisins or figs (or both), chopi>ed; 
three tablespoonfuls chocolate or cocoa ; one teaspoonful vanilla. This 
makes two layers. 

Filling : Three cupfuls 4x sugar ; three tablespoonfuls cocoa ; six 
tablespoonfuls melted butter; six tablespoonfuls hot coffee; one tea- 
spoonful vanilla. Mix well and put on cake. 

118 



Cakes 

miiiuiiiuJiuiuuiiiiiiiiimiuii iiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiimiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiimiiiimiiiiiiiiii i iii j iiiiiiiiiii iiiiiiiiii iiiiiiiriiiii 

CREAM CAKE Mrs. W. S. Holabird 

One-half cup butter; one cup sugar; yolks of two eggs beaten 
light; one and three-fourths cups sifted pastry flour; two level tea- 
spoonfuls baking powder ; one-half cup cold water ; whites of two eggs 
beaten dry ; flavoring to suit. 

Cream Filling: One-fourth cup sifted flour; one cup hot milk; 
one-third cup sugar ; one-fourth teaspoonful salt ; one egg beaten light ; 
one ounce chocolate ; one teaspoonful vanilla extract. Mix flour and 
salt with a very little cold milk ; stir into the hot milk and cook ten 
minutes, add the chocolate and stir until it is melted and evenly 
blended with the flour mixture. Then beat in the egg mixed with 
the sugar, and lastly the vanilla. 

LADY FINGER CAKE Mrs. C. A. Bowman 

Five eggs, beaten separately; six lady fingers,, browned and 
grated ; three-fourths cup almonds, ground fine ; one cup sugar ; vanilla 
to taste. Mix all together, putting in stiffly beaten whites last. Bake 
in two layers in moderate oven. 

Filling: Yolk of one egg; one and one-half teaspoonfuls corn 
starch; sugar and vanilla to taste. Spread between layers and put 
whipped cream on top. 

WEARY WILLY Mrs. C. A. Carseadin 

Whites of two eggs broken in a cup ; enough soft butter to make 
the cup half full ; fill the cup with milk. Sift one and one-half cups 
pastry flour; one cup sugar; two teaspoonfuls baking powder and 
pinch of salt. Turn the cup of liquid into the dry ingredients, flavor 
and beat ten minutes. Bake in rather slow oven in layers or loaf. If 
well beaten this is a delicious, fine grained cake. 

SUNSHINE CAKES - Charlotte Pangburn 

Seven eggs; the whites and yolks beaten separately and very 
stiffly. Then add one-fourth teaspoonful each of salt and cream of 
tartar ; then fold in one cup of susrar sifted three times ; also one cup 
of flour sifted three times, then flavoring, preferably orange flavor. 
Bake in a slow oven forty-five minutes. 

DELICIOUS WHITE CAKE Mrs. W. F. Barnard 

One and one-half cups sugar; one-half cup butter; one cup sweet 
milk ; two cups flour ; one teaspoonful baking powder ; whites of four 
eggs. Cream sugar and butter, add milk, then flour and baking powder. 
Lastly, add whites of eggs, stirring very little after whites are in. 

WHITE CAKE (LAYER) Mrs. Knap 

Whites of eight eggs; one and one-fourth cups of granulated 
sugar ; one-half cup water ; three-fourths cup butter ; two and one-half 
cups flour; two heaping teaspoonfuls of baking powder. Flavor. 

119 



Cakes 

■II I iiiiiiiiiiiiniiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiitiiiiiii iiiiiiiiiuiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiuiiiiiiiuiiiiiiiiuiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiuiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiii in 

SUNSHINE CAKE Mary Roberts 

Whites of seven eggs; yolks of five eggs; two-thirds cup flour, 
sifted five times ; one cup sugar ; one pinch salt ; one-third teaspoonful 
cream of tartar; extract to taste. Beat whites very stiff, then add 
sugar; beat lightly, then add yolks beat thoroughly; add flour, stir 
lightly; then add extract. Put cream of tartar in eggs when half 
beaten. 

GOOD LAYER CAKE Mrs. H. D. Sheldon 

One cup sugar; one-half cup butter; two eggs; one cup milk; 
two and one-half cups flour ; two teaspoonfuls baking powder ; flavor- 
ing. Cream sugar and butter, add eggs beaten lightly, then milk. 
Sift flour three times before measuring, baking powder with flour in 
final sifting. 

GOOD LAYER CAKE Mrs. W. F. Barnard 

One-half cup butter; one cup sugar; one-half cup sweet milk; 
three eggs, beaten separately; one and one-half cups flour; one and 
one-half teaspoonfuls baking powder. Cream butter and sugar; add 
milk, yolks, flour and baking powder, and fold in whites. Bake in two 
layers or loaf. 

GRAFTON CAKE Mrs. Floyd E. Jennison 

Beat two tablespoonfuls of butter (or substitute) to a cream; 
add gradually one and one-half cups of sugar; the yolks of two eggs 
(beaten light) and one cupful of warm water. Stir in two and one- 
half cups of pastry flour and beat continuously for five minutes. Add 
two teaspoonfuls of baking powder, one of vanilla and beat again. 
Now add the stiffly beaten whites, folded in carefully. Bake in two 
layers. 

THE ROBERT E. LEE CAKE Mrs. Deborah Kaufman 

Three eggs; one cup sugar; one-half cup hot water; one and one- 
fourth cups flour; one teaspoonful baking powder; the grated rind of 
one orange. Beat sugar and yolks of eggs with small portion of orange 
peel and half of the beaten whites of eggs. Add hot water, and last 
the sifted flour with baking powder, and pinch of salt. Bake in two 
layers in hot oven. 

Filling: The rest of the grated rind of orange, half cup sugar, 
the remaining whites of eggs ; whip together and place between layers 
while cake is hot. 

CRUMB CAKE Mrs. A. Donald Campbell 

One cup sugar; one cup flour; one-half cup butter; rub all to- 
gether with one-half teaspoonful cinnamon and nutmeg; one-half tea- 
spoonful salt. Set aside one-half cup of mixture. Then to portion left 
add one good sized cup of flour, two teaspoonfuls baking powder, 
one-half cup of milk, one egg. Mix thoroughly and put in baking 
pan and sprinkle the mixture, set aside, on top and bake slowly. 

120 



Cakes 

liiiiiiiiiiiiiimiiimnmiiiimiiiiiHiiiiiiiiiiiMtiiiiiiiiimiiiiiniitiiiiiitiiiiiiMiiiiiniiiiiniiiiiiiiiniiiiiiiiniinniiinniinnnuiHniiiiiniuiriiiiiiiiiiniiHmiHiiuitmm 

WHEATLESS SPONGE CAKE Sabin School 

Four eggs; three-fourths cup sugar; one-fourth cup corn starch; 
one-fourth cup potato flour; one-fourth teaspoonful vanilla. Beat 
whites of eggs stiff, add sugar and beat again. Add yolks beaten 
separately; fold in corn starch and potato flour sifted together; add 
vanilla. Bake in slow oven thirty-five minutes. 

SPONGE CAKE Mrs. E. P. Eowen 

Two eggs, well beaten together; one cup sugar, beat into eggs 
for five minutes; one cup flour; one heaping teaspoonful baking 
powder in flour ; one-half cup boiling water added last. Put into oven 
immediately. 

PRUNE CAKE Mrs. C. B. Martin 

One and one-half cups sugar and two tablespoonfuls butter 
creamed ; yolks of three eggs ; white of one egg ; add one cup chopped 
prunes, sweetened and cooked; English walnuts; one teaspoonful cin- 
namon; one-fourth teaspoonful cloves; little nutmeg; one cup sweet 
milk ; level teaspoonful soda ; heaping teaspoonful baking powder ; two 
and one-half cups flour. Makes three layers. 

Icing: Cream two cups pulverized sugar and one tablespoonful 
butter; add whites of two eggs beaten stiff. 

WAR CAKE Mrs. M. A. Flanders 

One-half cup corn syrup; four scant tablespoonfuls butter; one- 
half cup milk; one egg, white and yolk beaten separately; fourteen 
graham crackers rolled fine; two tablespoonfuls flour; one teaspoon- 
ful baking powder; one-half teaspoonful vanilla; two tablespoonfuls 
chopped nuts and two tablespoonfuls raisins. 

EGGLESS, MILKLESS, BUTTERLESS CAKE Mrs. C. E. Seaton 

Put in a saucepan one cupful of brown sugar ; one cupful of water, 
two cupf uls of seeded raisins ; one-third cupful of lard ; one teaspoon- 
ful of cinnamon, one-quarter teaspoonful nutmeg; one-half teaspoon- 
ful cloves, ground, and a pinch of salt. Place over the fire and boil 
for five minutes. Let cool, then add one teaspoonful soda dissolved 
in a little hot water ; two cupfuls flour, in which one-half teaspoonful of 
baking powder has been sifted. Put in a loaf cake pan and bake one 
hour in a moderate oven. 

BUTTERLESS, EGGLESS, MILKLESS CAKE Mrs. M. A. Flanders 

Two cups raisins ; one-half teaspoonful allspice ; one-half teaspoon- 
ful cinnamon; two tablespoonfuls shortening; one-half teaspoonful 
salt ; one cup boiling water ; one cup brown sugar ; one-half cup dates ; 
boil five minutes ; when cool, add two cups flour, one teaspoonful baking 
soda, dissolved in warm water. Bake in a loaf. 

131 



Cakes 

iiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiniiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiniiniii iiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiniiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiniiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiil 

BLUEBERRY CAKE Mrs. Henry Grossman 

One quart of flour; three tablespoonfuls sugar; one teaspoonful 
baking powder; pinch of salt; two eggs; two cupfuls milk; piece of 
butter size of egg. Scatter baking powder, salt and sugar into flour 
and sift well, add the beaten eggs, melted butter and milk ; stir all to- 
gether a few minutes, then add berries, slightly floured. Bake in long 
square tin for twenty minutes or half an hour. 

SPONGE CAKE Mrs. Earl Combs 

Three eggs; four tablespoonfuls of cold water: one cup pow- 
dered sugar; one cup flour and a pinch of salt; two teaspoonfuls 
baking powder ; beaten whites of two eggs ; bake in loaf or layers. 

FIG CAKE Mrs. J. E. Kelly 

One-half cup raisins ; one-half cup figs, cut fine ; a level teaspoon- 
ful soda; one cup boiling water. Sit to one side while mixing; one 
cup sugar; one-half cup butter; one egg; one teaspoonful lemon ex- 
tract ; one heaping teaspoonful cinnamon ; one-half teaspoonful cloves ; 
two cups flour ; add first mixture and bake in moderate oven. 

Frosting: One and one-half cups powdered sugar; one-half cup 
butter, creamed together; two tablespoonfuls grated chocolate; two 
tablespoonfuls strong coffee; one teaspoonful vanilla. Do not cook 
frosting. 

LAYER CAKE WITH APPLE FILLING Mrs. W. F. Becker 

Three tablespoonfuls butter; one scant cup sugar; one scant cup 
milk ; yolks of two eggs ; one one-fourths cups flour ; two teaspoonfuls 
baking powder ; one teaspoonful vanilla. Cream butter and sugar and 
add eggs ; beat five minutes ; add milk ; then add flour sifted with bak- 
ing powder; add vanilla, and beat five minutes and put in two layer 
pans, put filling between layers and on top. 

Filling : Whites of two eggs ; one-half cup sugar ; two large grated 
apples ; one teaspoonful vanilla. Beat one-half hour. 

APPLE SAUCE CAKE Mrs. H. D. Sheldon 

One-fourth cup butter ; one cup sugar ; one egg yolk ; one teaspoon- 
ful cinnamon; one-half teaspoonful cloves; little nutmeg; one cup ap- 
ple sauce; one level teaspoonful soda; one cup raisins; two cups flour; 
pinch of salt. Cream butter and sugar, add egg well beaten and soda 
dissolved in the apple sauce ; add raisins, mixed with flour and spices. 

Frosting: One cup of confectioners' sugar; two tablespoonfuls 
melted butter, enough hot water to spread. 

DATE CAKE Mrs. Edward S. Smith 

One cup of dates chopped fine; sprinkle over them one cup of 
boiling water, and one scant teaspoonful of soda. Let stand while 
you mix the cake. One cup of sugar ; one tablespoonful of butter ; one 
and one-third cups of flour ; one-half cup of nut meats ; vanilla. Mix 
and add dates. Bake slowly thirty-five minutes. 

122 



Cakes 

nnmiiiiiiiiuiiiiiiiiiiiiimiiiiimmiiiiiiiiiii iiiimiiiiiiiiiiii miiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiniiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiii iiiijuiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiii iiiiiMiiiiiiiriiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiii 

CHOCOLATE PUDGE CAKE Mrs. J. G. Sherer 

Dissolve two ounces chocolate in five tablespoonfuls boiling water. 
Cream one-half cup butter, adding gradually one and one-half cupfuls 
sugar ; add yolks of four eggs, beaten thoroughly, then add the choco- 
late; one-half cupful milk; one and three-fourths cupfuls flour; two 
level teaspoonfuls baking powder; one teaspoonful vanilla and add 
beaten whites last. 

Filling : Two cups sugar ; one cup milk ; one-half cup chocolate ; 
butter size of a walnut. Boil until thick enough and beat until rather 
stiff. Spread on cake. 

CHOCOLATE CAKE Sharlotte Pangburn 

Two cups of brown sugar ; one-half cup of butter ; one-half cup of 
sour milk; two eggs. Cream this together. Then dissolve one tea- 
spoonful (level) soda in one-half cup of hot water; one teaspoonful 
baking powder. Grate one-third cake of Baker's chocolate; add hot 
water and soda and stir with cake. Lastly add two heaping cups of 
flour. For layer or loaf cake. 

CHOCOLATE CAKE Mrs. T. C. Hollenberger 

One-half cake chocolate ; three-fourths cup brown sugar ; one-half 
cup sweet milk ; cook until smooth. Add one teaspoonful vanilla. 
When cold, add to the following: Cake one-half cup butter, one cup 
brown sugar, two eggs, one-half cup milk, one and one-half cups flour, 
one teaspoonful soda. Beat whites of eggs separately. 

GRAHAM CRACKER CAKE Mrs. Paul Klein-exel 

One-third cup butter; one cup of sugar; three-fourths cup milk; 
three eggs beaten separately ; one package of graham crackers, ground 
fine ; one cup of nuts, one walnut ; two teaspoons baking powder. Bake 
in two layers for twenty minutes. 

HICKORY NUT CAKE Mrs. William S. Wood 

One and one-half cupfuls sugar; one-half cupful butter; one cup- 
ful sour milk; one teaspoonful soda; two eggs; three cupfuls flour; 
one cupful stoned raisins ; one and one-half cupfuls nut meats, cut up, 
and one teaspoonful cinnamon. 

POTATQE CAKE Mrs. William Molt 

One cup cold boiled potatoes, grated; two cups flour; one cup 
grated chocolate; two cups sugar; three-fourths cup butter; one-half 
cup each of chopped almonds and raisins ; one-half teaspoonful each of 
ground cloves, cinnamon and vanilla ; five eggs, beat in one at a time ; 
one cup sour cream, or milk ; one teaspoonful soda. Bake one hour. 

LIZZIE'S NO-EGG CAKE Mrs. C. A. Carscadin 

One cup sour milk ; one teaspoonful soda ; one cup chopped raisins ; 
two cups flour; one teaspoonful each of cinnamon and cloves; one 
cup granulated sugar; one-half cup butter and a pinch of salt. 

123 



Cakes 

•iiiiiiiiiiiiiiiHiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiMiiiiiniiiMiiiitniMtiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiniiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiMiiiiiiiiiiiiiiniininiiniiiiMiiiiniiiiiiiiiiMiiiiiiiniiiiiiiiiiiiniiiiiiiiiiMiiiiii^ 

POOR MAN'S CAKE Mrs. K. Larson 

One tablespoon butter ; one cup sugar ; one teaspoonful soda ; one 
teaspoonf ul baking powder ; two cups flour ; one cup raisins ; two tea- 
spoons vanilla; one teaspoonful allspice; one cup sour milk; one egg 
beaten. 

RYE BREAD TORTE Mrs. Harry M. Boon 

Four eggs, separate yolks and whites; three-fourths cup butter; 
one and three-fourths cups each of sugar and rye bread. Let the rye 
bread dry so it can crumble. Baked in two layers with whipped cream 
between makes a very rich cake. 

DARK CAKE Mrs. C. A. Carscadin 

One-half cup brown sugar ; one egg ; one-quarter cup each of but- 
ter, molasses and strong coffee; one and one-quarter cups flour; one- 
half cup each of raisins and currants; one-half teaspoonful each of 
soda, cinnamon and cloves; one-quarter teaspoonful mace. Mix to- 
gether in above order and bake. 

DEVIL'S CAKE Mrs. R. H. Wheeler 

Part 1: One cup light brown sugar; one cupful Baker's choco- 
late (two squares) ; one-half cupful milk ; thoroughly cook in double 
boiler and when cool mix with part 2. 

Part 2: One-half cupful butter (scant) ; one cupful brown sugar; 
yolks of three eggs ; one-half cupful milk ; two cupfuls flour ; one tea- 
spoonful soda dissolved in two tablespoonfuls warm water. 

Chocolate Frosting: One cupful sugar; butter size of a walnut; 
four tablespoonfuls cream; dessertspoonful vanilla; two squares 
Baker's chocolate. Cook in double boiler slowly. 

"White Frosting : Whites of four eggs ; two cupfuls sugar ; two ta- 
blespoonfuls water ; one cup nutmeats ; two teaspoonfuls vanilla. Cook 
six or seven minutes in double boiler. 

DEVIL'S POOD CAKE Sue C. Woodman 

Yolk of one egg; one-half cup milk; two squares Baker's choco- 
late ; one tablespoonful butter. Cook till thick. Add one cup sugar ; 
one-half cup milk; one-half cup flour; one teaspoonful soda; one tea- 
spoonful vanilla ; bake in two layers. 

Filling : One tablespoonful cocoa ; one tablespoonful corn starch ; 
one-half cup sugar ; a small piece butter ; one-half cup chopped raisins ; 
one cup milk; one teaspoonful vanilla. Cook until thick. 

SPICE CAKE Mrs. Harry M. Boon 

Three-fourths cup sour milk ; three-fourths teaspoonful soda ; one 
cup sugar ; one-half cup chopped raisins ; one-quarter cup chopped wal- 
nut meats; piece of butter size of an egg; two eggs; two level tea- 
spoonfuls cinnamon; one-half teaspoonful each nutmeg and ginger; 
one and one-half cups flour, sifted. Bake in medium oven three-quar- 
ters of an hour. 

124 



Cakes 

tiiiiiniiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiii iiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiii iiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiii iiiiiiii mill 

SOUTHERN PORK CAKE Miss Katharine Orr 

One-half pound fat salt pork, minced; one and one-half pounds 
seeded raisins; three eggs; five cups flour; one cup nut meats; two 
oups (large) sugar; one cup of molasses; one teaspoonful soda in dry- 
flour ; two teaspoonfuls cinnamon in dry flour ; one teaspoonful cloves 
in dry flour. Pour one pint boiling water over salt pork in bowl, and 
add all ingredients, whip eggs and put in last next to flour. Bake one 
hour. 

MRS. ROOSEVELT'S RECIPE FOR SPICE CAKE 

Mrs. Theodore Roosevelt 
One cup butter; two cups sugar; one cup milk; four eggs; four 
cups flour; two teaspoonfuls Royal Baking Powder; one teaspoonful 
ground cinnamon; one-half teaspoonful nutmeg. 

BLACK FRUIT CAKE Mrs. N. L. Hurlbut 

Four pounds dried brown sugar ; one pound flour, browned ; three- 
fourths pound butter ; one wine glass each of milk, mixed with one of 
brandy and one of wine ; one teaspoonful of soda ; one cup molasses ; 
three pounds currants; three pounds raisins; one pound citron; ten 
eggs; two teaspoonfuls each allspice and cloves; two tablespoonfuls 
cinnamon and one whole nutmeg. Cream butter and sugar together; 
mix soda in the milk with the brandy and wine; then molasses and 
spices ; beat eggs separately. Put paper in bottom of pans and bake 
in slow oven two hours. 

CINNAMON CAKE Bertha Z. Bisbee 

One cup each of granulated sugar and milk; two cups flour; a 
pinch of salt ; one tablespoonful butter or lard ; two teaspoonfuls bak- 
ing powder ; one egg. Put batter in pan, sprinkle brown sugar thickly 
over the top, also cinnamon ; put lumps of butter all over top. Bakes 
in about fifteen minutes. 



125 



Cakes 

aiiiiiniiimmiiiiiiiiimiiiiiimiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiriiiiniiiriiriiiiiiiiiMiiiiiiriii iiiiiitiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiii iiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiitiiiiiiiiniiiiiiiiiiiiiiimiiiimimiiiiiiiiiiimiiiimiiiiiiii 



126 



FILLINGS AND ICINGS 



COCOANUT FILLING 

Boil together one cupful sugar and one-half cupful water until 
they form a soft ball when tested in cold water ; pour slowly while hot 
into the stiffly beaten whites of two eggs, beating all the time. When 
stiff add one teaspoonful vanilla extract and one cupful cocoanut. Put 
between layers of a cake. 

CUSTARD FILLING. 

Dissolve two tablespoonfuls cornstarch in a little milk, put in 
double boiler with a scant cupful milk and one teaspoonful butter; 
stir until it begins to thicken; beat the yolks of two eggs and one- 
half cupful sugar until very light; pour on some of the boiling cus- 
tard ; now turn this back into the double boiler and stir a few minutes, 
adding flavoring. "When cool spread between layers of cake and 
sprinkle cocoanut or ground nuts over; cover top of cake with thin 
layer of the custard and sprinkle with nuts. 

ORANGE FILLING Miss Edmonds 

Mix one-half cup sugar and two tablespoonfuls flour; add grated 
rind of one-half orange and one-quarter cupful of orange juice and 
one-half tablespoonf ul lemon juice ; one egg, slightly beaten ; melt one 
teaspoonful butter and add the mixture, stirring constantly until it 
reaches the boiling point. Cool before using. 

MAPLE FILLING Mrs. Louis Geyler 

Two-thirds cup maple syrup, fill up cup with water; add one- 
fourth cup sugar; one-fourth cup cornstarch, and one-fourth cup but- 
ter. When cool add one-half pint bottle whipped cream. 

MOCHA FILLING Sue C. Woodman 

One tablespoonf ul butter; one tablespoonf ul cocoa; one table- 
spoonful cold coffee ; one and one-fourth cup powdered sugar ; one tea- 
spoonful vanilla. 

MOCHA FILLING 

One-half pint milk ; one-half cup black coffee ; one-half cup sugar ; 
yolks of three eggs; three tablespoonfuls blanched almonds chopped 
fine. Icing of three whites and chocolate. 

127 



Fillings and Icings 

iiiiMiiininiiiMJinMiMiiiiiiiiniiininiriiiiiMiiiinniiiinininiinnniininininiiuiHninniiiiinniiMniiiMniniiiiiiiiHiiiiiiniiiimiiiiiiiiiiiimiiilMiiimiiiriimiiiiMiliiiiliim^ 

MOCHA CAKE FILLING Mrs. Louis Geyler 

One large cup strong coffee ; two-thirds cup sugar; one tablespoon- 
ful cornstarch; cook until clear. Before taking off stove, add large 
dessertspoonful of butter. "When cool, add one-half pint bottle cream 
whipped. 

FIG FILLING 

Cook in a double boiler one-half pound figs, finely chopped; one- 
third cupful sugar ; one-third cupful boiling water and one tablespoon- 
ful lemon juice, until thick enough to spread. 

NUT FILLING FOR CAKE Mrs. E. R. Blew 

One cup sour cream, one cup hickory nuts chopped fine, one cup 
sugar. Cook in double boiler till thick enough to spread. 

SOUR CREAM FILLING FOR LAYER CAKE Mrs. W. F. Becker 

One cup sour whipping cream; one-half cup sugar; one-half cup 
walnuts chopped ; one teaspoonful vanilla. 

LEMON FILLING Mrs. G. D. Prentiss 

One cupful sugar; one egg; one tablespoonful butter; juice and 
grated rind of one lemon. Boil over hot water until thick and creamy. 

LEMON ICING Mrs. J. T. Wilcox 

Whites of two eggs beaten to a froth, one pound powdered sugar 
and one lemon grated. 

WHITE ICING AND FILLING Mrs. De Vries 

Cook together one and one-half cupfuls sugar and one-third cupful 
water until it threads ; let cool a little and break in the whites of two 
eggs well beaten. Beat until cold and put between layers and on 
top. 

MARSHMALLOW ICING Mrs. W. D. Hurlbut 

One cup granulated sugar; one-fourth cup water; stir until dis- 
solved and boil until it forms soft balls when dropped into cold water. 
One-half pound marshmallows in double boiler with two tablespoon- 
fuls hot water, stir until melted; now pour hot syrup gradually into 
this mixture, beating constantly, add flavor, beat until cold. 

CHOCOLATE ICING Mrs. E. G. Cooley 

One cupful granulated sugar ; one egg ; three tablespoonfuls sweet 
milk; two squares Baker's chocolate. Stir the whole egg, unbeaten, 
into the sugar ; add the milk and grated chocolate. Cook, stirring con- 
stantly, for three minutes; flavor with one teaspoonful vanilla. Let 
cool before putting on cake. 

128 



Fillings and Icings 

iiiiniiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiniinii tin iiiiiiiiiiiiiniiiii iiiiiniiiiiiiiiiiiii iinii iiii iiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiii iiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiii iiiriiiiiiiiniiiiil 

CHOCOLATE CREAM FROSTING Miss Nora Edmonds 

Beat the whites of two eggs ; stir into them enough powdered su- 
gar to make a smooth paste ; add one teaspoonful vanilla. Spread on 
cake. Melt enough bitter chocolate to make a coating over this. 

QUICK ICING Miss Shay 

Four tablespoonfuls butter creamed, add six tablespoonfuls su- 
gar; spread on cake, using a knife dipped in hot water to make it 
smooth. 

BOILED ICING 

Two cupfuls sugar, one-fourth teaspoonful cream of tartar and 
one-half cupful cold water. Stir until it boils. When it just drops, 
beat in seven teaspoonfuls to the stiffly beaten whites of two eggs; 
then boil the syrup until it threads, add to the eggs, beating all the 
time. 

FRUIT ICING 

Into one-fourth cupful of orange, lemon or other strained fruit 
juice rub as much sifted confectioner's sugar as will form a smooth, 
glossy icing ; it must be thick enough to be applied without running. 

TUTTI FRUTTI ICING Mrs. A. Donald Campbell 

Mix with boiled icing one ounce each of citron, candied cherries, 
seedless raisins, pineapple and almonds cut very fine. 

TUTTI FRUTTI FILLING 

Three cupfuls 4x sugar; three tablespoonfuls cocoa; six table- 
spoonfuls melted butter ; six tablespoonfuls hot coffee ; one teaspoonful 
vanilla. Mix well and put on cake. 



1S9 



Fillings and Icings 

■iiiHiiMiiiiintnNiiMiiiMiiMiMiriiHiMJtiitriiniMiiiiiMiMnniJiriiiiiiinniinNiiiininiNnMniinniJMiuiiMuiniiMiMuiiniiiiiiiniiiiiiiiiiiiiiiniiiiiiiiniiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiitiiiimiiiiii 



130 



COOKIES 



WALNUT JUMBLES 

One and one-half cupfuls of sifted pastry flour; one teaspoonful 
of baking powder; one-half cupful of granulated sugar; one-quarter 
cupful of butter ; one-half cupful of shredded walnuts ; one egg ; one- 
quarter cupful of milk. 

Method : Sift flour, baking powder and sugar together, rub but- 
ter in as for pie pastry. Beat egg well and add milk. Beat this into 
the flour, then add nuts. Knead lightly and roll half an inch thick. 
Now strew sugar over, press down with rolling pin and cut into small 
rings with a doughnut cutter. 

SPICE JUMBLES 

Use the recipe of Walnut Jumbles with these variations: Take 
three-quarters cupful of mixed chopped nuts, one teaspoonful of mixed 
spices, cinnamon, cloves and allspice, and if need be add more milk 
if dough gets too thick. Top may be strewn with chopped nuts also. 

ANISE TEA CAKES 

Four eggs; one pound of fine granulated sugar; one pound of 
sifted pastry flour; one teaspoonful of fine anise seed. 

Method : Beat eggs and sugar for at least half an hour, then beat 
in gradually as much of the flour that is needed to be able to handle 
at once. Take onto a floured board and using rest of flour kneed and 
roll about half an inch thick and cut with small round cutters. Now 
brush flat tins with melted wax, strew anise seed over and place the 
cakes half an inch apart. Let stand over night, then bake a golden 
color. They will look as though they were frosted. 

CHILDREN'S SPONGE CAKES Mrs. C. A. Carscadin 

One and one-half cups flour; two teaspoonfuls baking powder; 
one cup sugar; two eggs broken in a cup and cup filled with milk or 
cream. Stir all together in a mixing bowl, beat hard for five minutes 
and bake about ten minutes in muffin pans. 

FRENCH TEA CAKES Mrs. C. A. Carscadin 

One-half cup brown sugar; one-half cup butter; creamed; one- 
half cup milk; one teaspoonful cinnamon; one cup Quaker oats; one 
cup flour ; two teaspoonfuls baking powder ; two eggs and one cup of 
raisins. Bake in muffin tins. 

131 



Cookies 

iiiiiiiiiiMiiiiniiiiiiiiiniiiiiriiiiniiMininnnMiMiuiniiMiinitiiiiiniiininniniJirjMJniniiiniiiniiiiiiiiiininiiiniiiiniiniiNiniMMiiiiiiiJMinniiiiininnniiiiunMMiHitinniMi 

HOT TEA CAKES 

Two tablespoonfuls butter; one-half cup sugar; one-eighth tea- 
spoonful salt ; one egg ; one and one-half cups flour ; two teaspoonfuls 
baking powder; three-fourths cup milk; half teaspoonful vanilla. Mix 
in order given and bake in muffin tins ten or twenty minutes. 

LIGHTNING CAKE Mrs. W. F. Barnard 

One large cup flour; one large teaspoonful baking powder; one 
scant cup sugar. Put two eggs in cup and fill up with milk. Put sugar, 
flour and baking powder together, throw in milk and eggs; then add 
five level tablespoonfuls of soft butter, vanilla, and then salt. Bake 
in gem pans. 

AFTERNOON TEA CAKES Mrs. W. N. Hurlbut 

One cup butter ; half cup sugar, beaten to a cream ; two cups flour ; 
one teaspoonful baking powder ; two eggs. Drop the mixture from a 
teaspoon into a floured pan and bake in moderate oven. 

BROWNIES Mrs. W. N. Hurlbut 

Two eggs; one cup sugar; half cup butter; half cup flour; two 
squares melted Baker's chocolate; half cup chopped walnuts; one tea- 
spoonful vanilla. Beat butter, sugar and unbeaten eggs together. 
Bake on buttered paper and cut while hot, in squares. 

EGG ROLLS Mrs. W. N. Hurlbut 

One pint flour; two eggs; half teaspoonful salt; half cup milk; 
four tablespoonfuls butter; three level teaspoonfuls baking powder. 
Sift flour with dry ingredients ; cut butter into flour with a knife, beat 
eggs until light and add to milk. Add this to flour and mix lightly. 
Roll out on floured board till three-quarters of an inch thick. Shape, 
brush over tops with white of egg, and sprinkle with granulated sugar. 
Bake fifteen minutes in quick oven. 

SOUTHERN COOKIES Mrs. T. D. McMicken 

One cup butter; one and one-half cups sugar, creamed together; 
beat in three eggs; one cup milk: three cups flour; two teaspoonfuls 
baking powder; one cup chopped nuts; one-half cup raisins. Drop 
on buttered tins. 

OATMEAL MACAROONS Mary Roberts 

Three cups rolled Quaker oats ; three teaspoonfuls baking powder ; 
one tablespoonful butter; one cup white sugar; two eggs; one-half 
teaspoonful almond extract. Cream butter and sugar, then add eggs, 
well beaten. Mix rolled oats and baking powder together, add to but- 
ter and eggs. Drop one-half teaspoonful, about two inches apart, in 
well buttered pan. Bake in moderate oven. If not quite stiff enough 
add more rolled oats. 

132 



Cookies 

nil iiiiiiiiilliiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiin inn nnninnniniiinnn uiiiiiinuiinMiiiiniiMiiniiijniiiiiniiniiiinnnni nunii nn nnnini i ii 

MACAROONS Mrs. W. D. Hurlbut 

One tablespoonful butter and one-half scant cup sugar creamed. 
One well beaten egg ; one and one-half cups dry oatmeal ; one teaspoon- 
ful each of salt and baking powder and two teaspoonfuls almond ex- 
tract. Stir and drop on well greased pans. 

MACAROONS 

Beaten whites of two eggs ; one and three-fourths cupfuls granu- 
lated sugar ; two cups shredded cocoanut ; one-half cupful chopped wal- 
nut meats ; two cupfuls corn flakes. Mix all together and drop on well 
buttered tins. Bake until brown. 

SOFT WHITE COOKIES WITH RAISIN FILLING 

Mrs. M. A. Flanders 
One and one-half cups sugar; three-fourths cup shortening; one 
egg; one-half cup milk; one level teaspoonful soda dissolved in a lit- 
tle milk; salt, nutmeg. Mix well one cup sugar (reserving one-half 
cup for sprinkling on top of cookies before baking) with shortening, 
egg, milk, soda, pinch of salt and a sprinkle of nutmeg and flour. Use 
enough flour to enable to roll and cut. 

Raisin Filling: One-half pound raisins; one-half cup water; one- 
half tablespoonful butter ; flour. Put raisins in a pan with water and 
butter and as they come to a boil, thicken with a tablespoonful of flour, 
mixed with a little water. Put one laver of cookies in baking pan, 
spread with the raisin mixture, then place another cookie on top of 
each; sprinkle with sugar and bake. 

BUTTER COOKIES Mrs. J. R. Kline 

One pound butter; one cup sugar; two eggs; rind one-half lemon; 
juice of one-half lemon ; six cups flour ; one teaspoonful baking pow- 
der ; one cup almonds chopped fine. Cream the butter ; add the sugar, 
then the yolks of esrsrs, slisrhtly beaten. Add rind of lemon, and the 
flour well mixed with the bakinar nowder; then the lemon nuice with 
only enough flour to handle. Chill the dough, and when thoroughly 
cold roll. Cut with the small biscuit cutter, brush with white of egg. 
Sprinkle a little sugar on each cookie, also some chopped almonds. 
Bake in moderate oven a delicate brown ten to fifteen minutes. Will 
keep for weeks. 

ROCKS Mrs. F. B. Woodland 

One cup butter; one and one-half cups sugar; three eggs; two 
and one-half cups flour; one pound dates, stoned and chopped fine: 
one pound of walnuts, chopped a little; a teaspoonful soda dissolved 
in two tablespoonfuls hot water: one teaspoonful cinnamon; one and 
one-half teaspoonfuls allspice. Drop on buttered tins and bake. The 
dates measure one full cup. The walnuts about two cups. These are 
stirred in the last with part of the flour. Don't roll, but dip with a 
teaspoon. 

133 



Cookies 

I, iiMiiniiiiir iiniiiiiiiiiiiiiiJiiinjiiiiiiiiJiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiniiiiiiiiiiiiininiiiiiiiiiiiiiii;iii:iiiiiiiiiiiniiiiiiiiiiiiiiniiiiiiiiiii iiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiillilliiimillimil 

OLD-FASHIONED SUGAR COOKIES Mrs. C. W. Woodman 

Two cups of sugar; one cup melted shortening; two eggs; one 
cup sour cream ; one teaspoonful soda ; one teaspoonful nutmeg ; a lit- 
tle lemon flavoring; one teaspoonful baking poAvder in flour; one tea- 
spoonful salt. Flour enough to roll. 

COOKIES Mrs. J. A. Osborne 

One and one-half cups sugar; scant cup sour cream; one-half cup 
butter ; one level teaspoonful soda and nutmeg ; two eggs, beaten 
whites added last ; heaping teaspoonful baking powder in flour. Roll 
thick and sprinkle with sugar. 

FAVORITE COOKIES Mrs. Earl Combs 

One and one-half eupf uls of sugar ; one cupful of butter ; one-half 
cup of sour milk ; one level teaspoonful baking powder ; one teaspoon- 
ful grated nutmeg; flour enough to roll out, making it quite soft. 
Mix butter and sugar, then add milk and soda, nutmeg and flour lastly. 
Roll thin and put a little sugar on each cooky and bake in hot oven. 

OATMEAL AND COCOANUT COOKIES Mrs. T. C. Hollenberger 

One cup light brown sugar ; one-half cup shortening (scant) ; one 
egg ; one cup flour and one teaspoonful baking powder ; one cup oat- 
meal and shredded cocoanut mixed ; a little salt and vanilla. This will 
be quite stiff. Drop from spoon in small pats. 

CORN FLAKE COOKIES Mrs. S. Friedlander 

Three cups corn flakes ; one cupful flour ; three-fourths cup short- 
ening (butter and lard) ; one-half cup raisins, chopped ; two teaspoon- 
fuls baking powder; one teaspoonful cinnamon; two eggs; one cup 
sugar. Drop with spoon on greased tins. 

CORNFLAKE KISSES Mary Roberts 

Two eggs, well beaten ; three-fourths cup sugar, beaten into eggs. 
Add cornflakes until substance will hold shape when dropped from 
teaspoon, on to buttered paper. Bake fifteen minutes in slow oven. 

NUT KISSES Mrs. C. A. Carscadin 

To the white of one egg, well beaten, add ten teaspoonfuls pulver- 
ized sugar, a little ground cinnamon and cloves and a cup of chopped 
nuts ; flavor with vanilla. Put teaspoonful of mixture on bottom side 
of pie pan and bake ten minutes in a moderate oven. 

MERINGUE SHELLS Mrs. C. A. Carscadin 

Whites of four eggs beaten twenty minutes; one cup sugar; one 
teaspoonful vanilla; one-half teaspoonful vinegar. Bake forty-five 
minutes to one hour. Moderate oven. 

134 



Cookies 

inniiiinirinriinniniMniHinniiiMiniiiiinininMiiiiriiitnniiniininMiniiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiMiiJiiiiriiitiiiMiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiifiiiiiiiiiiiiiiniiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiMiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiii 

CREAM PUFFS Mrs. Paul Klein-exel. 

One-half cup flour ; one-half cup of boiling water ; one-quarter cup 
butter ; two eggs ; one-quarter teaspoon of salt. Add salt and butter to 
water. When boiling add flour all at once, stirring constantly- until 
mixture leaves the side of pan. Remove from fire, add unbeaten €gg3, 
and beat constantly while adding one at a time. 

MACAROON COOKIES Mrs. W. D. ("Ma") Sunday 

Four cups cornflakes ; one cup shredded cocoanut ; one cup granu- 
lated sugar; one cup chopped almonds. Beat whites of four eggs 
very stiff, and mix all together. Bake in a slow oven about twenty 
minutes. 

HERMITS Mrs. J. H. Shanley 

Cream one and one-half cups of butter and two cups of brown 
sugar ; beat four eggs and add to butter and sugar ; one level teaspoon- 
ful soda in a tablespoonful of hot water; then add two and one-half 
cups flour; one pound of dates (cut small) and about one cup chopped 
walnuts; flavor with vanilla. Drop by spoonfuls on pan and cook 
for about 45 minutes. 

ROCKS Mrs. H. B. Rairden 

One pound brown sugar ; one pound raisins ; one pound currants ; 
one pound walnuts ; one-half teaspoonf ul each cinnamon and nutmeg ; 
one-half cup sour milk; one-half teaspoonful soda; three eggs; flour 
enough to make stiff. Drop on well buttered tins and bake. 

MARGUERITES Mrs. W. L. Gregson 

Make frosting from two tablespoonfuls of tliiek sweet cream and 
powdered sugar; flavor; spread frosting over long salted wafers; 
sprinkle with chopped nuts and bake in moderate oven. Allow to 
stand in dripping pan until cool, to guard against breaking. Melted 
chocolate or pink fruit coloring added to frosting makes variety. 
Dainty for afternoon teas, etc. 

CHRISTMAS COOKIES Mrs. Adolph Holeman 

One-half pound of butter; one-half pound of sugar; two eggs, 
beaten separately ; one pound of flour ; one teaspoonful baking powder ; 
one teaspoonful vanilla. Roll out thin and cut spreading top of 
cookies with the white of egg and sprinkle sugar over the tops be- 
fore baking. These will keep for months in a dry place. 

OATMEAL COOKIES Mrs. A. J. Atwater 

One cup sugar; one cup lard; one cup raisins, ground fine; two 
eggs, beaten light; two cups oatmeal dry; one-half cup cold water; 
dash salt; one teaspoonful soda; sifted flour enough to make stiff 
dough. 

135 



Cookies 

iiiiiniiiiiiiMiMMiiiiiiiniiiiiniiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiniiiiiniiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiniiiiiiiniiiiiii iiiiijijiiiiiitiiiiiiiiiiiiiiniiiiiiiiiriiiiiniiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiMiliiiiniitiriiiintiiil 

OATMEAL COOKIES Mrs. W. D. ("Ma") Sunday 

One cup sugar; one-fourth cup lard; one-half cup butter; three 
eggs beaten; one and one-half cups sifted flour; two cups dry oatmeal; 
one teaspoonful cinnamon ; one and one-half cups chopped, seeded rai- 
sins ; one and one-half teaspoonfuls soda, mixed with one tablespoonful 
vinegar. Drop on greased pans. Bake in quick oven. 

OATMEAL COOKIES Mrs. Minnie E. Bodwell 

Cookies: One-half cup of lard; one-half cup of butter; one cup 
of sugar; two-thirds cup of sour milk; one level teaspoonful of soda, 
dissolved in milk; two cups of oatmeal; two cups of flour. Filling: 
One-half pound of dates put through chopper; one-half cup of white 
sugar ; one-half cup of cold v/ ater. Boil all together until thick ; when 
cool and cookies are warm, spread filling between two cookies; it is 
then ready to serve, very nice. 

LACE OATMEAL WAFERS Mrs. P. T. Hoyt 

One cup of sugar; one tablespoonful of butter; two eggs beaten 
separately ; two and one-half cups of uncooked oatmeal ; two teaspoon- 
fuls of baking powder; 1 teaspoonful of vanilla; one pinch of salt. 
Mix well, adding the stiffly beaten whites of eggs last. Drop a small 
teaspoonful on greased pans, far apart, and bake in quick oven. 

DROP CLOVE COOKIES Mrs. C. E. Upham 

Two cups sugar ; one cup shortening ; two eggs ; one cup molasses ; 
two teaspoonfuls soda dissolved in little hot water; six scant cups 
flour; one cup cold water; three teaspoonfuls salt; one teaspoonful 
cloves; one teaspoonful cinnamon; raisins if wanted. Drop with a 
teaspoon. 

DROP COOKIES (LIGHT) 

Two cups of sugar ; one cup of shortening ; two eggs beaten light ; 
one cup of milk (sour) ; one teaspoonful each of soda, salt baking pow- 
der — the latter well mixed with the four cups of flour — and grated 
nutmeg or any desired flavoring. Mix well and drop in small tea- 
spoonfuls upon a greased pan. Allow room to spread. Bake in a 
quick oven. 

PEANUT COOKIES Mrs. L. Ficklen 

One cup sugar; two eggs; two teaspoonfuls butter; one cup pea- 
nuts rolled ; enough flour with baking powder to make stiff batter. 

CHOCOLATE COOKIES Mrs. H. S. Mount 

Cream one cup of shortening, one cup of brown cugar, one cup 
of white sugar. Then add four squares (one-half of one-half pound 
cake), melted chocolate, one-fourth cup milk, one-half teaspoonful of 
baking powder, flour enough to roll very thin. Bake in cookie pans. 

186 



Cookies 

innirinininnniiiinuniininnnnininiiMiiiiniiriirintniniMiiiiiniHiiiiiuiiiinniiiiiniHruiiiiiiiiiinniHniMiiiiiiiiniiiiiiiiriiiMiiiiiiiriiiMiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiinjiNiiiiiiMiii 

CHOCOLATE NUT COOKIES Mrs. J. W. Moss 

One tablespoonful grated chocolate ; one cup chopped nut meats ; 
one cup seeded raisins ; one cup sugar ; one egg ; two tablespoonfuls 
butter; one-half cup milk; one and three-fourths cups flour; one tea- 
spoonful powdered cinnamon; one teaspoonful vanilla extract. 

CHOCOLATE FINGERS 

Three eggs; one-half pound of powdered sugar; one-half pound 
of sifted pastry flour; two ounces of powdered chocolate. Method: 
Beat sugar and eggs for half an hour, sift chocolate and sugar to- 
gether, then stir into the flour. Beat well, then with a pastry squirt 
form oblong cakes, size of a finger on waxed tins. Set away over 
night, then bake as other cookies in moderate heat. They have 
the appearance of being frosted owing to the light components rising 
to the top during night. If you have no pastry tube or squirt, form 
little round mounds by dipping up portions with a small spoon dipped 
in cold water. When baking the above cakes be sure to use only mod- 
erate heat. Remove cakes from pan as soon as done and place in tin 
pails or cans as soon as cold. If kept in closed tin small cakes wall keep 
a long time and remain palatable. 

DROP COOKIES (Dark) 

One cup of brown sugar; one-quarter cup shortening; one egg; 
one-half cup each of hot water and molasses ; one teaspoonful each of 
soda, baking powder, cinnamon, cloves and salt; one-half teaspoonful 
of ground nutmeg, all sifted thoroughly with two and one-half cups of 
flour. Mix well, drop in small spoonfuls upon a greased tin, and bake 
in a quick oven. This makes a small batch. 

GINGER SNAPS W. B. McKinley (his mother's recipe) 

Two cups brown sugar ; two cups molasses ; one cup lard or butter ; 
one-half cup sweet milk ; one teaspoonful salt ; two teaspoonfuls soda ; 
one teaspoonful cinnamon; one-half teaspoonful cloves; two table- 
spoonfuls ginger; add flour enough to roll. Put molasses, lard, sugar 
and spices on the stove, let get hot. When cool dissolve the soda in 
the milk, add flour and milk alternately, roll very thin and bake. 

GINGER BREAD Mrs. A. P. Roberts 

One cupful molasses; two cupfuls sour milk; three cupfuls flour; 
one-half teaspoonful each nutmeg and cinnamon; scant half cupful 
sugar; two eggs; one heaping teaspoonful ginger and a teaspoonful 
soda dissolved in the sour milk. 

SOFT GINGERBREAD Mrs. T. C. Hollenberger 

Two-thirds cup molasses, fill cup with sugar; one-half cup butter, 
fill cup with hot water ; two cups flour ; two teaspoonfuls ginger ; one- 
half teaspoonful cinnamon; one teaspoonful soda, dissolved in a little 
of the hot water; one egg. 

137 



Cookies 

•ninrMniriHiinnniHiiiiHiiiiniiiiiiiuiiHiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiniiiiiiiiiiniMnniMiiuiiiiHiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiitniNJMiHiniiiniiiiiiiniiniiHiiMiniiiiiiiiiMinuiiniiiiiiininiiinuiii^ 

GINGER BREAD Mrs. Eustace 

One cup molasses ; one cup broAvn sugar ; one-half cup butter and 
lard; two eggs; two scant teaspoonfuls of soda in one cup of sour 
milk ; three cups of flour ; one teaspoonful each of ginger and cinna- 
mon ; one-half teaspoonful each of cloves and allspice. Bake slowly. 

GINGER BREAD Mrs. W. F. Barnard 

Two-thirds cup molasses, fill up cup with granulated sugar; one- 
half cup butter, fill cup up with hot water; two scant cups flour; one 
egg, beaten light ; one teaspoonful ginger ; one teaspoonful cinnamon ; 
one teaspoonful soda. Bake in moderate oven about one-half hour. 

COLONIAL GINGERBREAD Mrs. Floyd E. Jennison 

One cup molasses; one-half cup sugar; one-half cup shortening. 
Pour over the above, one cup warm water in which one level dessert- 
spoonful of soda has been dissolved. Let mixture cool ; then add two 
and one-half cupfuls flour (sifted) ; one teaspoonful each of ginger and 
cinnamon and lastly two well beaten eggs and one cup (or less) of 
English walnut meats. Raisins may be added, if desired. 

CHOCOLATE GINGERBREAD 

One-half cup molasses; one tablespoonful each of melted butter 
and lard; one-half cup brown sugar; one-fourth teaspoonful each of 
ginger and cinnamon ; one heaping tablespoonful grated sweet choco- 
late, mixed to a paste with a little hot water. Blend the ingredients 
thoroughly, then stir in one teaspoonful soda in one cupful of sour 
milk; flour to stiffen. Bake twenty minutes. 

CINNAMON STARS 

Two tablespoonfuls of butter; one cupful of sugar; two eggs; one 
and one-half cupfuls of sifted pastry flour; one teaspoonful of cinna- 
mon ; one-fourth teaspoonful of baking powder. Method : Cream but- 
ter, sugar and eggs until light, sift all dry ingredients together, then 
stir into egg mixture. Take onto a floured board, using a very little 
more flour if needed. Roll quite thin, then cut with a star cutter. 
Bake on waxed tins in a very moderate oven. 

CALIFORNIA COOKIES Mrs. E. T. Clissold 

One cup molasses; one egg; one-half cup milk; one cup chopped 
raisins ; one-half cup butter ; one-half cup sugar ; one-half teaspoonful 
each of cloves, nutmeg and cinnamon ; one teaspoonful soda. Drop in 
spoonfuls in buttered tins. Bake quickly. 

DOUGHNUTS Mrs. H. P. Sieh 

Two cups sugar ; four eggs ; one cup buttermilk ; six tablespoonfuls 
hot lard ; one teaspoonful nutmeg, one of soda and one of salt. Flour 
to make a good rolling dough. Cut and cook in hot lard. 

138 



Cookies 

inimiiiiiiiiiiiiimiiiiimiiiiiiiiimmiiiiiiiiiiinnimmiiiiiniitiiiiMMiniiiiiMiiiiiiiiiniiHiiiiiiniiiimiminiiiiiiiimmimiiiiiiiiiiin^ t 

MOLASSES SQUARES Mrs. B. Oliver 

One cup sugar; one egg; two tablespoonfuls shortening; three- 
fourths cup molasses; one teaspoonful soda dissolved in molasses; 
one cup milk; two and one-half cups flour (after sifting); one cup 
raisins; one teaspoonful each cinnamon, cloves and one-half teaspoon- 
ful nutmeg. Beat egg, add shortening, molasses, milk, spices and last 
the raisins (floured). Bake in two shallow pans. Any desired frosting. 

GINGER BLOCKS 

Four tablespoonfuls of butter or butterine ; one-third cupful sugar ; 
one egg; one-half cupful of golden drip syrup; one-half cupful of 
milk; one and three-quarters cupfuls of sifted pastry flour; one tea- 
spoonful of baking powder; two teaspoonfuls of ginger. Method: 
Cream butter, sugar and yolk; then add the sirup and beat hard. 
Sift dry ingredients together, and then add, alternating with the milk. 
Whip white of egg and fold in. Bake in square tins. When done cut 
into blocks and sift confectioners' sugar over. To make the blocks 
of uniform size trim the very outer edge of cake before cutting. These 
rims can be used for a pudding some other day. 

PUFF BALLS Mrs. J. Dana Brown 

One egg; three-fourths cupful sugar; one scant cupful milk; one 
and one-half cupfuls flour; and one-half teaspoonful baking powder; 
pinch of salt. Mix and roll out and cut with the smallest biscuit cutter 
and dropped in hot fat. 

DOUGHNUTS Mrs. J. H. Shanley 

Three eggs ; one cup sugar ; one cup sweet milk ; three teaspoonfuls 
baking powder sifted with three cups flour ; spice and flavoring to suit 
your taste. When these are put into the boiling lard they sink, but 
rise almost at once and turn themselves. They never break apart when 
frying, as they contain no shortening, yet they are sufficiently rich to 
satisfy anyone. 

DOUGHNUTS Mrs. T. C. Hollenberger 

Three eggs beaten very light ; one cup sugar ; four tablespoonfuls 
melted lard, add to the eggs and beat all together. One teaspoonful 
salt and a little nutmeg or lemon rind grated; one cup thick sour 
milk with one-half teaspoonful soda dissolved in it ; add flour with one 
heaping teaspoonful baking powder sifted with flour — three cups, with 
enough more to make a very soft dough. 

DOUGHNUTS Miss Shay 

Two eggs, well beaten; add one and one-half cupfuls sugar; one- 
half grated nutmeg; one cup milk; two heaping tablespoonfuls butter, 
melted; two heaping teaspoonfuls baking powder sifted in the flour 
and flour enough to make the dough roll easily, about three pints of 
flour. 

139 J 



Cookies 

iiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiniiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiitniiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiimiiiiniii i i iiiiMiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiii imiiiiiiimiiiTiiiiiiiiii niiiiiirirniiii iiiimtniiiiiiMiiiiiiiiini 



140 



PICKLES 



'How Cam'st in Such a Pickle?" 

— Shakespeare. 



SLICED PICKLE Mrs. William H. Fahrney 

One peck cucumbers; thirty small onions; four green peppers; 
two red peppers; slice and soak over night in salt water. Soak cu- 
cumbers separately, rinse in cold water. One-half gallon vinegar; two 
tablespoonfuls mustard seed; one tablespoonful celery seed; six cups 
brown sugar; one-fourth teaspoonful tumeric; one teaspoonful pow- 
dered alum. Let the vinegar and seasoning come to a boil, add the 
onions and peppers, cook five minutes; then add the cucumbers and 
cook five minutes. Can hot. 

MUSTARD PICKLE Mrs. WiUiam Molt 

One quart tiny cucumbers; one quart large cucumbers, cut or 
sliced ; one quart green tomatoes, cut in pieces ; one large cauliflower, 
divided; five green peppers, chopped fine; one quart button onions, cut 
up. To four quarts of water add one pint salt and pour over the vege- 
tables and let stand twenty-four hours; then heat in same brine just 
enough to scald; turn into colander and drain. Mix one-half cup 
flour; six tablespoonfuls mustard; two tablespoonfuls tumeric, with 
enough cold vinegar to make a smooth paste; add one cup sugar and 
enough vinegar to make two quarts in all; boil this until it thickens 
and is smooth. Add this to the pickles and cook until they are heated 
through, about fifteen minutes ; pack in Mason jars and seal. 

MUSTARD PICKLES 

FOR TWO QUART JAR Mrs. Wm. J. Maiden 

Three tablespoonfuls Coleman's mustard; one-fourth cupful salt; 
piece of horseradish root; fill jar with vinegar. Wash and wipe 
pickles and pack in jar, then pour over the above mixture. 

PICKLES Alice H. Tolmie 

Slice 25 small cucumbers with a large onion, put in salt brine and 
let stand for three hours, then drain and boil in following syrup : One 
quart vinegar, one pound sugar, one-half cup mustard seed, one table- 
spoonful ginger, one teaspoonful each of celery seed and tumeric pow- 
der. Boil five minutes and can. 

141 _ . ..„ 



Pickles 

iiniiiiiHiiiiJiiniiiiiiniiiiiHiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiniiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiniiiiiiiiiiiiniiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiHiiiitiiiiiiiiiniiiiiiiiiiiiiniiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiN 

MIXED PICKLES Mrs. H. D. Sheldon 

One quart of small cucumbers; one quart of white onions; one 
quart green tomatoes ; two large cauliflower ; soak in weak salt water 
over night ; scald in same brine and drain. Paste : Six tablespoonfuls 
dry mustard ; one tablespoonful tumeric powder ; one and one-half cups 
flour; two cups brown sugar; five pints vinegar. Add vegetables to 
paste ; heat through and seal in cans. 

CUCUMBER PICKLES Mrs. Samuel Friedlander 

Twelve long cucumbers; five large onions, sliced and salted. Let 
stand over night. In morning drain well. Boil three pints vinegar; 
one and one-half pounds sugar; one red pepper, cut in strips; two 
tablespoonfuls dry mustard ; a tablespoonful whole white peppers ; one 
tablespoonful whole black pepper; two tablespoonfuls mustard seed. 
Boil until tender and can hot. 

CUCUMBER PICKLE Florence Trainer 

Two dozen large cucumbers, chopped fine and salted over night; 
one cup salt; four large onions; two stalks celery; one red pepper; 
chop all fine. Heat three cups cider vinegar; one cup water; two 
cups brown sugar; three tablespoonfuls mustard seed; three table- 
spoonfuls ground mustard; one tablespoonful celery seed; one-fourth 
teaspoonful cayenne pepper. When hot, pour over chopped mixture 
and cook ten minutes. Then bottle. 

PICKLED ONIONS Mrs. W. L. Gregson 

Peel and drop in hot brine. The third day heat the brine again 
and pour over them ; the sixth day make a new strong brine ; the tenth 
day drain and pour scalding vinegar containing a very little ginger 
root over them. Let stand on the stove until thoroughly heated 
through, but do not cook ; pour into jars and seal hot. A little alum 
in the brine makes them firmer, and white wine vinegar aids in keep- 
ing them white, but malt vinegar adds to the flavor. 

TOMATO RELISH Mrs. A. Donald Campbell 

One peck ripe tomatoes, peeled, chopped fine and drained in jelly 
bag over night ; in the morning add two cups chopped celery, six large 
onions chopped fine; two large green peppers (without seeds), chopped 
fine; two cups sugar; half cup salt; two ounces white mustard seed; 
one quart cider vinegar. Mix well and bottle; it does not require 
heating and will keep for years. 

OIL PICKLES Mrs. A. C. Allen 

One-half peck small cucumbers ; one pint silver skin onions, slice 
thin and place in stone jar alternately, sprinkling salt between. Let 
stand over night; pour off brine and wash thoroughly; add the fol- 
lowing: one teacup olive oil, two tablespoonfuls white mustard seed, 
two tablespoonfuls celery seed, four pepper corns and vinegar to cover. 

143 



Pickles 

inimiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiMiiiiniiiiiiiiiniiiiiiniMiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiniiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiniiiiiiiniiiiiiitiiiiiiiiiiiiiii^ 

OIL CUCUMBER PICKLES Mrs. E. D. Gotchy 

Cut one hundred small cucumbers into thin slices; put in earthen 
crock in layers Avith salt for four hours ; drain off liquor and mix with 
three pints of sliced onions, three ounces white mustard seed, three 
ounces celery seed, three ounces of ground white pepper. Dissolve 
small lump alum in vinegar; add to it two cups olive oil; add white 
vinegar enough to cover. 

PICKLES FOR IMMEDIATE USE Mrs. S. A. Power 

Mix together one cupful each of salt and dry mustard ; add it to 
one gallon of good vinegar, spices of various kinds and a little sugar, 
if liked, may be added. Drop the well washed cucumbers into this 
pickle each day as they grow. These pickles will keep indefinitely. 

DILL PICKLES Mrs. W. T. Klenze 

One hundred medium sized cucumbers; one small red pepper; 
one big bunch of dill; some cherry leaves; ten quarts of water; one 
quart of vinegar; two cups salt. Mason jars, two quart size. Lay 
cucumbers in salt water over night (one-half cup salt to four quarts 
water). Boil water, vinegar and salt; let cool over night. Drain cu- 
cumbers and place in jars in layers between cherry leaves and dill. 
Pack cucumbers tight; add a small piece of red pepper, cover with 
brine and screw down cover. Will keep. One cup of mustard seeds 
and one cup of horseradish root, shaved fine, may be added. 

PICCALILI Mrs. H. B. Rairden 

One peck of green tomatoes; eight large onions; one cup salt; 
slice and let stand over night. In the morning drain and add three 
quarts of water and let come to a good boil, then drain well through a 
colander. Put back in kettle and add two quarts vinegar; one pound 
of sugar; half pound of white mustard; two tablespoonfuls ground 
pepper ; two of cinnamon ; one of cloves ; two of ginger ; one of allspice 
and half a teaspoonful of cayenne pepper. Boil all together until 
tender; it will take from thirty minutes to an hour to cook. Stir it 
often to prevent scorching. Seal in glass jars; add more sugar if 
liked sweeter. 

BEET RELISH Mrs. B. McNeil 

One quart cooked beets, chopped fine ; one quart cabbage, chopped 
fiine; one cup each of grated horseradish, chopped onion and sugar; 
one teaspoonful salt; one pint vinegar. Heat vinegar, pour over all 
and seal. 

PEPPER RELISH Sue C. Woodman 

Twelve green peppers; twelve red peppers; ten medium onions; 
chop together. Pour boiling water over and let stand five minutes; 
strain and repeat. Three cups of vinegar; one cup sugar; two table- 
spoonfuls salt ; one-half cup mustard seed ; cook thirty minutes Bottle. 

143 



Pickles 

niiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiii I itiiiiiiiiiiitiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiii iiiiiiiiiiiir iiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiii iiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiii iiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiMiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiim 

PEPPER HASH Mrs. Jolm T. Gilchrist 

Nine sweet peppers; one large head cahbage; six large onions; 
chop fine and add one-half cup salt. Stand over night and drain in 
morning. Add two cups sugar; cup white mustard seed; one table- 
spoonful celery seed; vinegar to cover. Do not remove pepper seeds 
and do not cook. Put in earthen jar, covered with a plate. 

OLIVE OIL PICKLES Mrs. A. J. Atwater 

Forty cucumbers, dill size, scrub and slice with rind; one-half 
cup salt; a layer of cucumbers and a layer of salt in a crock; put 
weight on top and let stand for two hours ; pour off water and add ten 
onions, four green peppers, sliced fine ; two ounces mustard seed ; one 
pint olive oil; one ounce celery seed. Pack in jars and cover with 
vinegar. 

UNCOOKED CHILI SAUCE Mrs. Herman Vander Ploeg 

One peck ripe tomatoes; two cups chopped onions; two cups 
chopped celery; two cups sugar; one-half cup salt; four ounces white 
mustard seed ; one teaspoonful powdered mace ; one teaspoonful black 
pepper; one teaspoonful powdered cinnamon; four chopped green 
peppers; three pints vinegar. Chop the onions and peppers, add to- 
matoes peeled and chopped; sugar, salt, mustard seed, mace, pepper, 
cinnamon and vinegar. Seal and if screw top jars are used, turn upside 
down overnight. 

CANNED TOMATO SOUP Mrs. Edwin Oliver 

Fourteen quarts of sliced ripe tomatoes; fourteen stalks celery; 
fourteen sprigs parsley; two bay leaves; twenty-one cloves; seven 
medium sized onions. Boil until tender and strain. Then blend four- 
teen tablespoonfuls each of butter and flour ; eight tablespoonfuls salt ; 
sixteen tablespoonfuls sugar; one-fourth tablespoonful paprika. Cook 
until the desired thickness; makes about eight quarts. If milk is 
used, add soda. 

CORN RELISH Mrs. A. J. Langan 

One dozen ears of com, boil ten miutes, cut from cob; one head 
of cabbage; four green peppers; four red peppers; one cup sugar; 
three pints vinegar; one small box Coleman's mustard; one tablespoon- 
ful celery seed ; salt to taste ; one teaspoonful tumeric. Mix well ; boil 
twenty minutes and seal. 

CORN RELISH Mrs. Samuel Friedlander 

Twelve ears of corn, cut from cob ; twelve green peppers ; two 
red peppers; two quarts ripe tomatoes; a head cabbage; one quart 
onions, chopped all together; add one quart sugar; one-half cup 
salt; two quarts vinegar; one ounce celery seed; one ounce mustard 
seed; one ounce dry mustard; one tablespoonful tumeric. Mix and 
boil forty minutes. Seal hot in air tight cans. 

144 



Pickles 

iiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiNiiiiiiiiiniiiitiiiiHiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiMinitiiiiiiriiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiniiiiiiiiiiiniiiiiiniiitiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiuiiiiiiiiin niu 

CORN RELISH Mrs. R. Heidom 

Twelve ears corn ; six cucumbers ; six large onions ; two stalks 
celery; six green peppers; three red peppers; three tablespoonfuls 
salt; two cups sugar; three tablespoonfuls dry mustard; three table- 
spoonfuls flour; one-half ounce tumeric; two quarts vinegar; boil one 
hour and seal hot. 

CORN RELISH Mrs. E. L. Phelps 

Two dozen ears of corn, cut from the cob ; six red peppers ; six 
green peppers; large head of cabbage; two tablespoonfuls salt; three 
cups sugar; two quarts vinegar (diluted) ; one-half pound dry mus- 
tard; add celery and onions as much as you like. Cook the salt, 
mustard, sugar and vinegar together ; add cabbage, celery and onions. 
Cook a little, then add corn ; let boil up and can air tight. 

CORN SALAD • Sue. C. Woodman 

Four large onions; one cabbage; four green peppers; one red 
pepper; twenty ears of corn; one and one-half cups sugar; one-half 
cup salt. Make paste of and pour on above; one-half cup flour; one- 
half teaspoonful tumeric; three tablespoonfuls mustard; one quart 
vinegar. Boil twenty minutes. 

CHILI SAUCE Mrs. R. Heidorn 

Twenty-four ripe tomatoes; four white onions; three green pep- 
pers; four tablespoonfuls salt; one of cinnamon; one-half of ground 
cloves and allspice mixed; one teacup sugar; one pint vinegar; boil 
three hours, seal hot. 

CHILI SAUCE Belle Shaw 

One peck tomatoes ; six large onions ; four green peppers ; two red 
peppers; six tablespoonfuls white sugar; three tablespoonfuls salt; 
three cups vinegar ; two tablespoonfuls whole cloves ; two tablespoon- 
fuls whole allspice ; two stalks whole cinnamon ; chop tomatoes, pep- 
per and onions, very fine; tie spices in two bags, loosely. Boil three 
hours, slowly. 

CHILI SAUCE Mrs. H. D. Sheldon 

Thirty large tomatoes; eight onions (medium), three green peppers 
chopped fine ; two red peppers chopped fine ; ten tablespoonfuls brown 
sugar; three tablespoonfuls salt; two tablespoonfuls cinnamon; one- 
half tablespoonful cloves ; one quart vinegar. Peel and slice tomatoes, 
put in kettle with remaining ingredients, cook slowly until thick, add 
vinegar when nearly done. 

SPICED CURRANTS Mrs. C. A. Robinson 

Pour pounds of currants ; one and one-half pints of vinegar ; one- 
half pint of water; pound of brown sugar; one tablespoonful cinna- 
mon ; one teaspoonful cloves ; one nutmeg. Boil slowly three hours. 

145 



Pickles 

iHniiiiininiiiinniiiiiniiiiiiiiiimiiiimiiiiiiiiiiiiiMiiiimmiiiiiiininiiiiniiinniiMHiiinMiiiiiiiMiMMiiinniiiiiniiininHniiNiiMMiinniiMiMinnHiiiiiiiiimn^ 

NEVER FAIL CATSUP Mrs. Minnie E. Bodwell 

One gallon of ripe tomatoes, after having been boiled and strained ; 
one pint of vinegar; five tablespoonfuls of salt; two tablespoonfuls of 
black pepper; three ounces of white mustard seed ground finely; one 
teaspoonful of cayenne pepper; one teaspoonful of cinnamon; one-half 
teaspoonful of allspice. Cook all together for four hours. 

TOMATO CATSUP Sue C. Woodman 

Cut up one peck of tomatoes over night with one cup salt. Boil 
well and strain. Add: One tablespoonful ground cloves; one table- 
spoonful allspice ; one tablespoonful mace ; one tablespoonful white 
mustard seed; one tablespoonful black pepper; one teaspoonful red 
pepper; one-half cup sugar; one pine white wine vinegar. Boil down 
one-half. Bottle. 

CURRANT CATSUP Mrs. J. H. Ostrander 

Clean and stew four pounds of ripe currants; add two pounds 
of brown sugar and one pint of vinegar; boil steadily and slowly until 
thick ; add one teaspoonful each of ground pepper, cloves and cinna- 
mon; boil for five minutes longer. Bottle and seal. 

VEGETABLES FOR WINTER SOUP Mrs. C. E. Seaton 

One peck ripe tomatoes ; one head of cabbage ; one bunch car- 
rots; six large onions; nine ears of corn; six stalks celery; two green 
peppers; one large bunch parsley. Scald the skins off the tomatoes 
and cut in rather large pieces ; shred cabbage ; peel and slice carrots ; 
peel and chop onions; cut corn from cob; cut celery as for salad; 
remove the seeds from peppers, chop them and the parsley quite fine. 
Mix all together and boil for one hour in a porcelain or agate kettle, 
stirring often to prevent scorching : about ten minutes before it is done, 
add salt to taste. Seal hot in glass jars. Potatoes may be added 
to the soup in the winter. 

SWEET WATERMELON PICKLE Mrs. N. F. Swartwout 

Remove the thin rind (green), also all of the ripe melon, using 
only the white portion of the rind. Nine pounds fruit, three pounds 
sugar, one quart vinegar. After soaking the rinds over night in strong 
salt water and then rinsing in hot water; put the fruit, sugar and vine- 
gar together in preserving kettle and boil until tender. Skim out 
fruit and put into the liquid a bag of spices and boil until a little 
thick; then pour over the fruit. If there is not enough syrup to 
cover it add a little more vinegar. 



14Q 



Pickles 

iniNiMiiiiiiiMinirHnnirnnnirniiniiiitHiMirinriiiriiniMunnMninrMiriiiMiiuiNiiMiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiriiiiiiiiiriiiiMiriitiniiitiiiiniiiiiiiriiiiiiiiiiiiiiniiiiiiiiiiiiiniiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiit 



147 



Pickles 

„„„ iniiiiiiiiiiiiiiiit iiniiiiniiii iiiiii niiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiitiiiiiiiiitiiiiMiuiiniiiiiiiiiiniiiiitiii iiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiniii iiiiiiiiii iiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiuiiin 



148 



PRESERVES 



"Tlie best of families have their family 'jars.' " 



POUR FRUIT JAM Mrs. W. C. Thorbus 

One quart strawberries; one quart currants; one quart goose- 
berries; one quart cherries; two quarts granulated sugar. Boil forty 
minutes and put in jelly glasses. 

CRANBERRY CONSERVE Sue C. Woodman 

One quart cranberries cut coarsely; one cup sultana raisins; six 
oranges ; soak raisins ; cut up oranges ; mix. Equal measure of sugar ; 
cook. Stir constantly. 

RHUBARB CONSERVE Mrs. John Ingram 

Six pounds rhubarb ; six pounds granulated sugar ; one-half pound 
English walnuts; six oranges, pulp and juice. Boil until proper con- 
sistency. 

PLUM CONSERVE Mrs. A. C. Allen 

One box of blue plums; one pound of raisins, chopped; three 
pounds sugar; juice of four oranges; rind of two oranges chopped. 
Boil the rind in water until bitterness is gone. Cook for one-half 
hour. 

HEAVENLY HASH Mrs. W. D. Hurlbut 

A five-pound basket of big blue plums ; wash and seed them, put in 
preserving kettle with one pint water; add (everything but the seeds 
of) five oranges and five lemons, putting the skins through a meat 
chopper ; four pounds of seedless raisins, also put through the chopper ; 
one pound of walnut meats broken and lastly five pounds of sugar. 
Let boil until quite thick, then put in glasses and when cold cover 
with paraflBne. 

PEAR CHIPS Mrs. M. Evans 

Seven pounds pear chips; seven pounds sugar; one-fourth pound 
candied ginger; three lemons sliced; two oranges. Cook oranges and 
lemons slowly before adding to pears ; then cook slowly for two hours. 

149 



Preserves 

iiiiiiiiiiiiiiniiiiiiMriniiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiriiiiiiiniiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiniiiiiiiiiiiiiiiniiiiiiiiiHiiiiiiiiiiiiMiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiMi^ 

SUN COOKED STRAWBERRIES Mrs. H. D. Sheldon 

Use cup for cup sugar and fruit. Let sugar stand on fruit over 
night. Drain juice and cook slowly until sugar is thoroughly dis- 
solved. Add fruit and heat through. Turn out on platters and stand 
in sun until thick as desired. Pieces of glass over each platter helps 
cook more rapidly. Seal as you would jelly in glasses. 

HARLEQUIN JAM Good Housekeeping 

One orange ; twenty-five peaches ; twelve pears ; twelve plums ; one 
pound white grapes; one-fourth pound almonds, blanched; three- 
fourths cup of sugar to one cup of fruit. Cook two hours. 

BLACKBERRY JAM 

Two quarts blackberries; one and one-half quarts sugar; one cup 
water. Cook well for half an hour. 

APRICOT JAM Mrs. Herman Vander Ploeg 

One pound dried apricots; three pounds granulated sugar; one- 
half ounce bitter almonds; three pints cold water. Soak the apricots 
in the water over night (wash first), and in the morning boil until 
tender. Add sugar and almonds blanched and boil another half hour, 
or until mixture sets. 

YELLOW TOMATO PRESERVES Mrs. T. B. Orr 

Two quarts tomatoes; two lemons ground, use juice and all; four 
chopped large sour apples; two and one-half cups brown sugar; two 
teaspoonfuls cinnamon; one teaspoonful ground ginger; one-half tea- 
spoonful cloves. Cook slowly until thick. Put in jars. 

TOMATO BUTTER Mrs. A. Donald Campbell 

Seven pounds large ripe tomatoes ; four pounds brown sugar ; one- 
half cup vinegar; one teaspoonful each of ginger and cloves; one 
tablespoonful cinnamon. Cover tomatoes with boiling water and let 
stand five minutes; rub off skins and cut off stem ends. Slice into a 
porcelain kettle and cook until soft; add sugar and stew until very 
thick; add spices and vinegar and cook short time longer. Pour in 
quart Mason jars and seal while hot. This is particularly good with 
meat or game. 

EAST INDIAN PRESERVE Mrs. George D. Milligan 

Six pounds yellow tomatoes — small ones; six pounds sugar; one 
pound raisins, large ones with seeds; put them in water until they 
plump up; two ounces green ginger root (obtainable at a Chinese 
store); six lemons sliced; put tomatoes in kettle and put on enough 
water to cover them; then add the other ingredients and boil until 
thick. 

160 



Preserves 

qiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiniiiMiiiiiMiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiMiMiiHiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiniiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiitiiiiiiiiiiiitiitiiitiiiii iiiiininiiiiiiiiniiiiiiiiiiiiiii 

QUINCE HONEY Aunt Margaret 

Peel and grate three large quinces and one tart apple. Make a 
syrup of three pints of granulated sugar and one pint of water ; have 
the syrup boiling briskly ; stir in the grated fruit and boil twenty min- 
utes. 

APRICOT MARMALADE Mrs. J. G. Sherer 

One basket of apricots ; one pineapple ; three oranges ; five pounds 
cane sugar. Peel oranges, scald peeling and scrape off white and then 
put all through grinder. Boil all slowly one hour, stirring constantly 
or it will stick. 

APRICOT AND PINEAPPLE 

MARMALADE Mrs. A. Donald Campbell 

One large, or two small, pineapples, put through meat chopper 
with large knife ; one and one-half pounds apricots ; weighed after they 
are peeled and pitted; two pounds sugar; one-half pint water. Boil 
slowly for an hour. 

FIG MARMALADE Mrs. John T. Gilchrist 

Cut five pounds rhubarb into inch pieces. Add one quart of water 
and cook as for sauce. Put one pound figs through a food chopper. 
Heat five pounds sugar and add to hot sauce, then figs. Add juice 
of two lemons. Cook slowly for about one hour, stirring often. 

PEACH MARMALADE Mrs. F. J. Macnish 

Equal parts of peaches (run through a fine collander) and sugar, 
cooked two hours. 

PEACH MARMALADE Mrs. J. H. Shanley 

Nine medium sized peaches, cut small ; one orange, chopped fine 
(with skin) ; one cup sugar. Cook until it thickens, put in jelly glasses 
and seal. 

PIE PLANT MARMALADE Mrs. T. B. Orr 

Two quarts pie plant pared and cut in inch length pieces ; four 
large oranges, chopped (use juice) ; one-half pound almonds, blanched 
and chopped; four pounds sugar; mix all together and let stand in 
bowl all night. Cook slowly in enamel kettle until thick. Seal with 
paraffine in glasses. 

ORANGE MARMALADE Mrs. T. M. Flournoy 

Six oranges; three lemons, parboiled, and save the water; either 
put the skins through the chopper or slice them very thin; add eight 
cupfuls water, using that in which the fruit was boiled, and sixteen 
cupfuls of sugar; let stand over night. Next day let it boil gently 
until it jellies. 

151 



Preserves 

•iiiiiiiiniiiiiiiiiiniiiiiiMiiiniiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiMiiiiiMiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiniiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiniiiiiMiiniiiiiiinniuiiiiiiiniiiiiiiiiiiiiiiMiiiiiiiin 

ORANGE MARMALADE Mrs. C. B. Martin 

One grapefruit ; six oranges ; two lemons (sliced like wafers) ; two 
quarts of cold water ; let stand over night. In the morning, boil slowly 
until fruit can be pierced with a straw ; add seven and one-half pounds 
granulated sugar and boil until thick enough. 

ORANGE MARMALADE Miss Julia Hunt 

Six pounds of pumpkin (after cut), cut one inch long, three- 
fourths inch wide and one-half inch thick; cover with five pounds 
sugar ; let stand over night. Six lemons, juice and rind ; two oranges 
sliced and the rinds cut in small pieces; three-fourths ounce ginger, 
the preserved is best. Simmer until the rind softens, then add to the 
pumpkin and boil until the right consistency. 

QUICK ORANGE MARMALADE Mrs. A. Donald Campbell 

Take one-third lemons and two-thirds oranges (eight oranges and 
four lemons makes large enough quantity to cook up at one time and 
makes twelve glasses). Take off the yellow part of the peel from one- 
half of each ; cut into small pieces and drop into the preserving kettle ; 
take off the white part of the peel, between the yellow part and the 
pulp ; be sure none of the white goes into the marmalade, as it makes 
it bitter. Slice the fruit across in thin slices, and add it to the cut 
up peel; put teacup of water to each whole fruit (oranges and lemons) 
and cook until the fruit is soft. "When cooked, add three-fourths cup 
of sugar for each whole fruit and boil hard until it jells. The quicker 
it is cooked the better, as long cooking, especially after the sugar 
is added, tends to destroy the flavor and makes the mixture taste 
strong. 

RHUBARB MARMALADE Mrs. J. L. Putman 

Boil for twenty minutes, four pounds of rhubarb cut into small 
pieces, leaving the skin on. Add the juice of five lemons, the rind of 
which has been sliced off thinly, boiled in a little water for about 
twenty minutes or until soft; and chopped fine. To this add six 
pounds of granulated sugar, one pound of blanched almonds, chopped 
or cut, and one wine-glass of Jamaica ginger. Boil all together until 
thick. 

RHUBARB MARMALADE Mrs. John T. Gilchrist 

Cut rhubarb very fine and to each cupful add the juice and pulp 
of one orange, one tablespoonful lemon juice and one teaspoonful 
grated orange peel and one and one-half cups sugar. Let stand until 
sugar is dissolved. Boil rapidly until transparent. 

SPICED RHUBARB Mrs. John Ingram 

Two and one-half pounds rhubarb ; skin and cut in one inch 
pieces; two pounds granulated sugar, mixed with one teaspoonful cin- 
namon ; one-half teaspoonful ground cloves ; seven-eighths cup vinegar. 
Bring to boiling point and simmer till thick. 

152 



Preserves 

iiniiiiiiiiiiiiinnnintHiiiiiiiiiiiniinniiininiinHrMiriiriiiniriinnitnnininiiiiiinininiiniirMiiiirHinniiniiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiinniinniiininitiniiiininiiiMiiiiiiiiriiuiniimim^ 

SPICED RHUBARB Mrs. John T. Gilchrist 

Sprinkle two and one-half pounds sliced rhubarb with one pound 
of sugar and let stand over night. Drain in the morning and add to 
the juice one cup water and one-half cup vinegar. Put on, boil with 
a spice bag containing one-half teaspoonful each of ground cloves, 
mace, allspice, ginger and cinnamon. Boil until it makes a good 
syrup, then add rhubarb and cook until thick. 

SPICED CHERRIES Mrs. C. A. Bowman 

Take eight quarts of large red cherries (stoned), cover with cold 
vinegar, let stand over night. Next day turn off all the juice in 
the jar, measure the cherries and take equal parts of sugar and cher- 
ries. Take one tablespoonful cloves, six sticks of cinnamon, pounded 
a little, put in cheesecloth bag, put in jar with sugar and cherries. 
Stir every few hours for several days until sugar is thoroughly dis- 
solved. Put in fruit jars. 

SPICED GRAPES Mrs. J. G. S. 

Remove the skins from seven pounds of grapes, boil until soft 
and pass through sieve. Boil four pounds of sugar and one quart of 
vinegar together, add skins, boiled grapes, one tablespoonful powdered 
cloves; two tablespoonfuls powdered cinnamon and boil all together 
for two and one-half or three hours. 

SPICED GRAPE JELLY Mrs. W. D. Hurlbut 

One peck of grapes; one quart vinegar; six pounds sugar; one 
ounce whole cloves; one-fourth ounce stick cinnamon. Boil grapes, 
spices and vinegar together until the grapes are tender. Press through 
sieve and boil the juice thirty minutes. Add heated sugar, boil five 
minutes, testing to see whether it has jellied. Cook longer if neces- 
sary. Pour into hot sterilized jelly glasses and cover with wax. 

CRABAPPLE AND DAMSON 

PLUM JELLY Mrs. C. A. Carscadin 

Four quarts of crabapples; one quart of damson plums. Wash 
fruit and put on with cold water enough to cover. Let cook until soft, 
drain through a jelly bag and return to kettle with an equal quantity 
of sugar. Boil until it jells. This makes a tart jelly which tastes 
like currants. 

QUINCE AND CRANBERRY JELLY Mrs. C. A. Carscadin 

Three large quinces ; one quart of cranberries. Wash and quarter 
the quinces, removing the seeds; pick over and wash the cranberries 
and put them in the preserving kettle with the quinces; add cold 
water to nearly cover fruit; cook slowly until soft. Allow juice to 
drip through a jelly bag. Boil twenty-five minutes and add an equal 
quantity of heated sugar. Boil five minutes, skim and put in heated 
glasses. Seal. 

153 



Preserves 

iriiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiimiiiiiiiiiiiiiiii mil iiiiiiini iiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiii iiiiiiitiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiii 

MINT JELLY Mrs. W. C. Thorbus 

Two bunches of fresh mint ; one pint boiling water ; one-half box 
gelatin, soaked in one-half cupful cold water; one-half cupful lemon 
juice ; one cupful sugar. Crush mint and steep in water one-half hour ; 
soak gelatin in cold water and add to mint ; add sugar and lemon juice. 
Strain and color with Burnette's leaf green paste. 

AMBER JELLY Mrs. M. Evans 

One grape fruit ; one orange ; one lemon ; after washing fruit, slice 
very thin, rejecting only seeds and tough inner pulps of grape fruit. 
Cut slices in halves and quarters, measure and add two and one-half 
times the quantity of water and set aside for twenty -four hours. Then 
boil gently for fifteen minutes, and set aside another twenty-four hours. 
Add sugar, measure for measure, to fruit and juice and boil until it 
jellies, which will be for one hour and a half or two hours. Before 
cooking dissolve the sugar through the fruit and juice. Then do not 
stir at all while the process of cooking is going on. The rinds should 
be transparent and the jelly a clear amber hue when done. 

QUINCE AND CRANBERRY JELLY Mrs. George K. Spoor 

Four pounds quince; two quarts cranberries; cook until mushy; 
then strain for juice and add one cup sugar to every cup of juice. 
Boil fifteen minutes. This makes a beautifully colored jelly. 

PICKLED PEACHES OR PEARS Mrs. J. A. Kaerwer 

One quart vinegar; two quarts water (eight cups) ; four pounds 
sugar (nine cups) ; put stick cinnamon and five cents worth of cloves 
in bag and boil fifteen minutes. Peal fruit and pour hot syrup over 
fruit and let stand over night. Drain syrup off fruit and reboil syrup. 
Pour hot on fruit a second time. The third morning boil syrup again 
twenty minutes, and then boil fruit in syrup. Can and seal. 

PICKLED PEACHES Mrs. N. L. Hilliard 

For ten pounds of peaches take five pounds of light brown sugar, 
one ounce whole cloves, one ounce cinnamon stick and one pint vine- 
gar; let it come to a boil and pour over the peaches; let stand until 
next day ; pour off liquid ; reheat and pour over fruit again ; the third 
day reheat the liquid and put in the peaches, a few at a time, and 
boil; then put in jars and seal. 

ROSE APPLES Mrs. C. E. Jones 

Peel and core six small apples. Put into a saucepan with one 
cupful of sugar, one and one-half cups of water and five cents worth 
of red cinnamon drops. Boil gently until apples are tender and a 
pretty pink color. Remove carefully to a dish and let the syrup 
continue boiling until it jellies. Pour over the apples. Serve as a 
garnish or in glass sherbet cups and top with whipped cream. 

154 



Preserves 

iiiiiiiiiriitiiiiMiiniiiiiiiiiiiiiiiitiininiiiiiiiiiiniiiiiiiiiiiiniininiiiiiiiiiimiiiiiHiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiriniiMiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiininiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiniii^ 

MINCE MEAT Mrs. T. B. Orr 

One-half beef tongue chopped fine; six large sour apples; one 
quart of wine ; one cup molasses ; juice of one large orange and grated 
rind; two lemons, that is, juice and grated rind; two pints gran- 
ulated sugar ; one pint currant jelly ; two tablespoonfuls cinnamon ; one 
tablespoonful salt; one-half teaspoonful black pepper; two nutmegs; 
one large cup suet chopped fine, cooked; two pounds seeded raisins; 
one cup chopped citron; brandy enough to make moist. Use cold, 
strong coffee if brandy is objectionable. 

MINCE MEAT A. E. Loring 

One quart bowl each of chopped lean beef and of chopped apples ; 
two quinces chopped fine; one-half bowl each of suet and molasses; 
one and one-half bowls each of brown sugar; raisins; currants; one- 
half bowl of candied lemon and orange peel chopped fine; one-half 
bowl of citron chopped fine, grated rind and juice of two lemons; 
one glass jelly; one pint of boiled cider; one pint of sweet cider; four 
level teaspoonfuls cinnamon; one level teaspoonful cloves; one-third 
teaspoonful white pepper; three teaspoonfuls salt and one grated 
nutmeg. Allow meat to cool in the water in which it was cooked; 
remove all membrane from suet and cream it with your hand ; chop 
meat, add suet, apples, quinces, molasses, sugar, raisins, currants, 
orange and lemon peel, citron, lemon juice, jelly and cider; heat 
gradually and let it simmer three hours. When cool add the spices 
and if desired, brandy to taste. 

MINCE MEAT 

Mix together one cup chopped apples ; one-half cup raisins, seeded 
and chopped ; one-half cup currants ; one-fourth cup butter ; one table- 
spoonful molasses; one tablespoonful boiled cider; one cup sugar; one 
teaspoonful cinnamon ; one-half teaspoonful each of cloves and grated 
nutmeg; one salt spoon mace. Add enough stock in which meat was 
cooked to moisten; heat gradually to boiling point and simmer one 
hour ; then add one cup chopped meat and two tablespoonfuls currant 
jelly. Cook fifteen minutes. 

GREEN TOMATO MINCE MEAT Mrs. Ada Woods 

One peck green tomatoes, wash well and cut off blossom end ; put 
through meat chopper ; put on stove and pour over them boiling water 
and scald; drain this water off, put back on stove and repeat the 
process. After they have been scalded and drained three times, add 
one peck of apples, washed, cored and quartered and put through the 
meat chopper ; five pounds sugar ; two pounds raisins ; one and one- 
half pounds beef suet; Uvo tablespoonfuls salt; three tablespoonfuls 
cinnamon; one teaspoonful cloves; two teaspoonfuls nutmeg and one 
teaspoonful allspice. Cook one and one-half hours, stirring constantly 
as it bums very easily; add three cups vinegar and seal while hot. 

155 



Preserves 

iiiiiiiniiiiiiiiiiiiniiiiuwiiiuiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiuiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiniiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiniiiiiiiiiiiiiinniiiiiiii^ 

MINCE MEAT Mrs. J. P. Cobb 

One-half pound suet ; five pounds stoned raisins ; three pounds dried 
currants; one and one-half pound citron; six pounds sugar; one and 
one-half pints molasses ; six pounds round of beef ; one-half peck sour 
apples; one quart boiled cider; one quart California brandy; one pint 
California sherry; three nutmegs; one-half cup cinnamon; one-fourth 
cup ground cloves. 

MINCE MEAT Mrs. Elizabeth Iglehart 

Six pounds round beef chopped fine ; eight pounds chopped apples ; 
four pounds raisins with seeds ; four pounds currants ; one and one-half 
pounds suet shredded; two and one-half pounds sugar; one-half pint 
alcohol ; two quarts cider ; two quarts water ; one nutmeg grated ; four 
heaping teaspoonfuls cinnamon; one heaping teaspoonful cloves; six 
heaping teaspoonfuls allspice; two pounds chopped cooked figs; one 
pound chopped citron ; one pint good whiskey. Mix meat and fruits 
thoroughly, then add the liquor. 



166 



Preserves 

uiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiniiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiniiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiii iiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiniiiirniiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiii iiiii iiiiiiiiiiiib 



157 



Preserves 

III tiiiniiniiiiiniiiiiiiintniHiiiiiiiinHiiniiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiitniiiiiiiMiiniiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiHiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiHiiiiiiiiiiuiiiiiiiiii^ 



158 



BEVERAGES 



TJien said the Judge, *'A sweeter draught 
From a fairer hand was never quaffed." 

— Whittier. 



GRAPE JUICE MINT JULEP Midlothian Country Club 

One teaspoonf ul powdered sugar ; enough water to dissolve sugar ; 
a dozen sprigs of mint ; put in bottom of glass ; fill glass with fine ice 
and pour white grape juice over that to nearly fill glass, serve with 
slices of orange, pineapple and sprigs of mint on top. 

GRAPE JUICE Mrs. R. C. Foster 

To ten pounds of New York Concord grapes add three pints of 
boiled water. Cook and strain. Put in one pound of granulated sugar. 
Let stand over night to clear. Strain in the morning, bring to a boil 
and skim. Have jars, or bottles, hot, and bottle immediately. 

GRAPE JUICE LEMONADE 

Mix the juice of two lemons with half a cup of granulated sugar, 
then stir in one pint of grape juice ; continue to stir it until the sugar 
is dissolved, add enough cold water to make a quart of liquid; turn 
into a pitcher in which there is a piece of ice. Add a few thin slices 
of lemon from which the seeds have been removed, and a few mara- 
schino cherries. Serve with an extra supply of lemon and pineapple, 
cherries and sprigs of fresh mint, that each glass may be decorated. 

MULLED GRAPE JUICE 

Wash and pick over one cupful of seedless raisins; set over the 
fire with two cupfuls of cold water and four sticks of cinnamon ; sim- 
mer very slowly, never reaching a hard boil, for three-quarters of an 
hour. Add to them one quart of grape juice, and let this become 
scalding hot, take from fire, add juice of a lemon and serve hot. 

GRAPE JUICE Mrs. E. Lewis Phelps 

Wash and stem four pints of blue grapes. Have a gallon jug 
scalded and drained; put in grapes and cover with a syrup made of 
two pounds of sugar and eight cups of water; fill jug with boiling 
water; cork tightly. Following morning drive cork in tighter and 
cover with wax. Will be ready to serve in three weeks. 

159 



Beverages 

1 iiiiiiiiiiiiiniiiiiiiiiiiiin iriiiiii iiiiiniiniiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiniiiiiiiiiiiiiitiiiiiiiiiiiiiiniitiiiiitiiiiiiiitiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiii iiiiiiiitiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiriitiiiiiiiiiiii 

GRAPE JUICE Mrs. W. D. Hurlbut 

Ten pounds of grapes; three pounds of sugar; one cup water. 
Put the grapes and water in the preserving kettle, heat until pulp and 
seeds separate. Strain through jelly bag. Then add sugar to the 
juice heated to boiling point, then pour into hot sterilized bottles and 
seal. When serving add crushed ice. 

GRAPE JUICE HIGHBALL 

Put a piece of ice in each glass; rather more than half fill the 
glasses with grape juice, then fill vsdth charged water (from a syphon). 

CHERRY JULEP Mrs. Louis Geyler 

Cook one pint of red cherries, stoned, in one-half cupful sugar 
syrup until soft; cool and add one-half cupful cider; one-half cupful 
maraschino and a few sprigs of mint. Crush mint cherries, fill tall 
glasses with shaved ice and mixture alternately and stir, without touch- 
ing glasses with hands, until they are well frosted. Garnish with a 
slice of pineapple and a sprig of mint dipped in powdered sugar. 

GINGER ALE PUNCH Miss Agnes Sieber 

Add one bunch of mint to juice of five lemons and one cupful 
sugar ; bruise mint and let stand several hours on ice. Squeeze through 
cloth and add one lemon and one orange cut in thin half slices and 
two pints of ginger ale ; add ice and one pint ginger ale. Garnish with 
mint. 

MINT PUNCH 

Cook one cupful sugar with two cupfuls water, grated rind of an 
orange and a lemon, a piece of stick cinnamon and twelve cloves. 
Cool and strain, add juice of three lemons and four oranges; one 
bunch of fresh mint leaves and two drops of oil of spearmint. Place on 
ice for two hours. Strain again and add one-fourth cupful preserved 
ginger, cut in dice. Color green and add ice and one pint club soda. 
Garnish with mint. 

STRAWBERRY PUNCH 

Mash one quart strawberries, add juice of one-half pineapple, one 
lemon, two oranges and two cupfuls sugar cooked in five cupfuls water. 
Place on ice and strain into pitcher filled with ice and add whole 
strawberries and any fruits in season. 

CHOCOLATE MILK SHAKE 

One-fourth cup finely crushed ice; two tablespoonfuls chocolate 
syrup ; one-half cup milk ; one-fourth cup apollinaris water or soda 
water from syphon. Put ice in tumbler, add remaining ingredients, 
and shake until well mixed. Serve with or without whipped cream, 
sweetened and flavored. 

160 



Beverages 

iriiiiiiiiiiinMniiniiuiiiiinnNnnniininniniiniiniiiiiiiinniiiniiHiiinniiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiinMUiiiMiniiiiiiinniiiiiiiniiiiMniiiininnitiiHiiniiiiniiiiniiiiiiiiiiiiiiitiiniiiiiiiiiiiii 

GINGER ALE Mrs. C. A. Carscadin 

One and three-fourths pounds of sugar; one and one-half ounce 
whole ginger; two and one-half ounces cream of tartar; one lemon 
sliced; seven quarts of boiling water and two cents worth of yeast. 
Put the sugar and spices in a stone jar ; pour boiling water over them 
and let them stand covered in a cool place for twenty-four hours. 
Then add the yeast, dissolved in luke warm water, and let stand again 
for twenty-four hours. Put in bottles, cork well and after three days it 
is ready for use. 

GINGERADE Mrs. W. L. Gregson 

One quart of cold water, one cup sugar, one-fourth ounce white 
ginger root, juice two oranges and one lemon. Put the water and 
sugar to boil, add ginger root broken into small bits. Let it boil 
twenty minutes after boiling begins, remove from the fire and add 
fruit juice. Strain and cool. Serve with powdered ice and a pre- 
served or sweet cherry in each glass. 

BLACK COW Midlothian Country Club 

Put fine ice in glass and nearly fill with sarsaparilla, pour cream 
carefully on top of that and serve. 

A DELICIOUS FRUIT CUP Midlothian Country Club 

Put one pint of water, one pound of sugar and the grated yellow 
rind of one lemon on to boil for five minutes; strain and while hot 
slice into it two bananas ; one grated pineapple and one-fourth pound 
stoned cherries. When ready to serve add the juice of six lemons. 
Put in the center of your punch bowl, as guard, a block of ice ; pour 
over it two quarts of apollinaris, add the fruit mixture and at the 
last moment one dozen strawberries and mix all together. 

CHOCOLATE FRAPPE S. Blanche Backman 

Put a quart of rich milk in a double boiler, stir into it gradually 
three-fourths of a cup grated chocolate and sweeten to taste. Boil 
five minutes, stirring all the while ; then pour into an earthen dish and 
add a teaspoonful of vanilla and set on ice. Have chopped ice in the 
bottom of the glasses ; then fill the glasses within a quarter of an inch 
of the brim. Put sweetened whipped cream on top. If desired the 
whipped cream can be dotted in the middle with fruit jelly. 

CREAMY COCOA 

Stir together in a saucepan half a cup cocoa, half a cup flour, 
half a cup granulated sugar and half a teaspoonful salt. Add gradu- 
ally one quart boiling water and let mixture boil five minutes, stirring 
it constantly. Remove from fire, add a quart boiling milk, and serve. 
If desired a spoonful whipped cream may be put in each cup before 
filling with cocoa, (Flour should be sifted before measured.) The 
above recipe will serve twelve persons. 

161 



Beverages 

(iinininninininiinniiiiiniiininimiiimriiiiiiiiiMmiiiinmiiiriiiiiiiiiinHiiiiiiiniiniiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiminiiiMimmiiiiiiiiiiiniiiiiiiiininiiiHniniiiiiiMMNr 

CURRANT LEMONADE Mrs. W. L. Gregson 

One glass of currant jelly; one cup sugar; two lemons; beat the 
jelly very thoroughly with the sugar and add the lemon juice and two 
quarts water and a generous piece of ice. 

ICED COFFEE 

Iced coffee served with orange is also delicious. Add half cup 
orange syrup to three cups coffee and shake in a shaker with a little 
chopped ice. Turn into thin glasses and add a spoonful whipped 
cream, 

COCOA EGG-NOG 

Beat white of an egg to a stiff froth, adding tiny pinch of salt. 
Sweeten, flavor with vanilla and put aside about two teaspoonfuls. 
Add. yolk to the rest and beat well, then add enough rather rich cold 
cocoa to fill tumbler. Stir well together and put the remainder of the 
beaten white on top. Serve at once, and ice cold. 

LEMON TRIFFLE 

Two lemons ; two oranges ; twelve lumps loaf sugar ; two teaspoon- 
fuls brandy; two teaspoonfuls Jamaica rum; a little grated nutmeg; 
one-half pint double cream, whipped. Grate rind of one orange and 
two lemons and squeeze juice of all on the sugar and let stand until 
dissolved. Stir well and serve in glasses with a spoonful of cream 
on top. This serves four persons. 

RASPBERRY VINEGAR Mrs. W. W. Backman 

Mash six quarts of berries (red or black). Pour two quarts of 
cider over the berries and let them stand all day and night. The 
next day mash six more quarts of berries ; strain first six quarts and 
pour over last six quarts of berries and let stand another night and 
day; then strain all again. To every pint of juice add one pint of 
sugar and boil about twenty minutes; then bottle. When serving, use 
about one-third of the raspberry vinegar to two-thirds water. 

EGG-NOG 

Beat separately the white and yolk of an egg. Stir a heaping 
teaspoonful of sugar and a tablespoonful of grape juice into the yolk ; 
pour into tall glass, add the whipped white and fill glass with un- 
skimmed milk. Serve cold with light cakes or thin bread and butter. 



162 



Beverages 

DiimniimMniminininiiimmuiinnininiiiiiinninmnmnnniinuiiuuiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiniiiiiniiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiniiiiiiiiiiinin 



163 



Beverages 

iiiiiiiiiiiiii iitniiiiiiii I iiniiiiiiiiiiiiriiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiuiiiiiiiiiiiiiuiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiii iiiiiii iiiiiiiiiri jiiimiiiiiijjiiiiiii iiiiitiiiiiiiiin 



164 



SANDWICHES 



'Would you know Jiow first he met her? 
She was cutting bread and butter." 



SPANISH SANDWICH FILLING 

One large onion; three carrots; two red peppers; two green pep- 
pers (without seeds) ; two eggs, hard boiled; two sour pickles. Chop 
all the vegetables and pickle very fine; squeeze dry in a cheese cloth, 
add the chopped eggs and one-half cup mayonnaise. 

LUNCHEON SANDWICH Mrs. C. S. Junge 

Fry two slices of bacon for each sandwich. Toast bread. Pour 
over the first layer of toast a little of the bacon fat. In remaining 
fat stir a tablespoonful flour, add a cup and a half of milk and cook 
until creamed. On the slice of toast place a slice of cold roast beef, 
chicken or veal, and on that two slices of tomatoes; then the slices of 
bacon. Place on the second slice of toast and turn over all the 
creamed gravy, and serve. 

TASTY FILLING Mrs. W. D. Hurlbut 

One bunch of radishes, washed but with the skins left on and a 
bit of the green stem ; one Spanish onion peeled ; chop together until 
very fine. Make a highly seasoned boiled mayonnaise, mix with the 
radishes and onion and spread thin slices of buttered bread; put a 
lettuce leaf over the mixture and then another slice of buttered bread. 

ANCHOVY SANDWICH Mrs. Francis A. Sieber 

Two tablespoonfuls creamed butter; one-half cup grated cheese; 
one teaspoonful French mustard; one teaspoonful Tarragon vinegar; 
and anchovy paste. Add one tablespoonful minced olives, pickles, 
salt and paprika. Spread on bread. 

CHICKEN AND BACON SANDWICH Mrs. Louis Geyler 

Mix equal portions of chicken, bacon and celery; add one tea- 
spoonful minced green pepper and a few drops of tarragon vinegar. 
Lay lettuce strips across sandwiches and when serving, lay a slice of 
tomato on each and cover with the minced chicken mixture. Top with 
a spoonful of mayonnaise. 

165 



Sandiviclies 

iiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiniiiiiiiniriiiiiiiiiiiiii Jiii iiiiiiiiiniiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiii iiii Jiitiiiiiiiijiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiniiii iiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiHiiiiiiiiiiniiiJiiiiiirii 

SANDWICH (CHICKEN AND HAM) Miss Agnes Sieber 

Mix one cup minced chicken with two-thirds cup minced ham ; add 
four tablespoonfuls each of chopped pickles, piementoes and creamed 
cheese, mashed smooth. Add paprika and spread on bread. 

BEEFSTEAK SANDWICH Mrs. W. R. McGhee 

Have a cut of tenderloin of beef for Bach sandwich ; butter two 
slices of bread and lay them side by side; broil the steak, seasoning 
well and lay on one piece of bread ; on the other place a slice of Spanish 
onion which has been thoroughly chilled to make it brittle. 

CHEESE, PECAN NUT AND PIMENTO SANDWICH 

Cut Boston brown bread and white bread into thin slices and stamp 
into rings with a doughnut cutter. Beat one-fourth cupful of butter 
to a cream; gradually beat in half a cupful (measured light) of grated 
cheese, half a teaspoonful paprika and one-fourth cupful sliced pecan 
nut meats. Use this to spread the prepared bread; drop on the mix- 
ture here and there thin slices of piemento, then press the two pieces 
together. 

CHEESE SANDWICHES Mrs. Helen Armstrong 

One hard boiled egg ; one-half teaspoonful salt ; one-fourth pound 
grated cheese ; one-half teaspoonful pepper ; one-half teaspoonful mus- 
tard ; one tablespoonful melted butter ; three tablespoonfuls lemon juice 
or vinegar. Rub yolk of egg to paste and add salt and pepper, butter 
and mustard ; then add lemon juice to make right consistency. Spread 
between thin slices of bread. 

DREAM SANDWICHES Mrs. W. L. Clock 

One-half cup of pecan nuts chopped fine; one-half cup stoned 
raisins ; one apple ; juice of one-half lemon ; one spoonful sugar. Mix 
with a small amount of cream and spread it on bread thin. It makes an 
excellent filling for sandwiches. 

HOT CHEESE SANDWICHES 

These are particularly nice for Sunday evening teas. Slice the bread 
very thin ; put a thick layer of grated cheese between the two forms ; 
sprinkle with salt and a dash of cayenne pepper and press the bread 
well together. Fry them to a delicate brown on each side in equal 
parts of hot lard and butter and serve very hot. 

HOT CHEESE SANDWICH Mrs. W. D. Hurlbut 

On a slice of bread, well buttered, place a fairly thick piece of 
yellow American cheese ; sprinkle with salt and paprika pepper ; cover 
with another slice of buttered bread and place under the blaze in the 
broiler to toast ; when one side is done turn over and toast other side. 
By the time both sides are toasted the cheese is quite soft. 

166 



Sandwiclies 

iiHJjniMMiiniriiiiiinininiiiHiininjiNiiiiiuiuiJiinNiininnniinMiiiuiUMiiniinniiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiniiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiMiiiiiiiiiiitiiniii 

JANE DABNEY'S CHEESE SANDWICH Mary S. Vanzwoll 

One and one-half cups grated cheese ; one egg ; two tablespoonfuls 
cream. Spread on bread and cover with a slice of bacon. Brown in a 
medium oven. 

CHEESE AND NUT SANDWICHES Mary Barwick Wells 

Chop pecans, hickory nuts or English walnuts ; mix with an equal 
quantity of cream or Neufchatel cheese. Butter thin slices of bread 
and spread with the cheese and nuts. Between the slices lay a heart- 
leaf of lettuce dipped in mayonnaise dressing. 

CUCUMBER SANDWICH Mrs. F. E. Place 

Peel and slice cucumbers like wafers ; put on the ice several hours 
before using. Mix with an oil mayonnaise and spread between thin 
slices of bread. 

FILLING FOR PIEMENTO SANDWICHES Mrs. J. E. Kelly 

Two tablespoonfuls sugar ; one teaspoonful salt ; one tablespoonful 
flour ; mix. Yolks of two eggs, beaten ; one-half cup water ; one-half 
cup vinegar ; one teaspoonful butter. Cook in double boiler till thick. 
Add to: Three Eagle brand cream cheese; one small can pimentoes; 
one cupful walnuts or pecans; grind pimentoes and nuts and cream 
into the cheese. 

LAYER SANDWICHES 

Five slices of Boston brown bread, put together with cream cheese 
reduced with sweet cream or mayonnaise ; cut down in half -inch slices. 

OLIVE SANDWICHES 

Chop one-third olives and two-third chicken livers that have been 
thoroughly cooked and mashed quite smooth; mix with thick mayon- 
naise dressing. Serve in white bread, ice cold. 

EGG AND GREEN PEPPER SANDWICH 

Six hard boiled eggs ; one green pepper ; two tablespoonfuls olive 
oil ; one tablespoonful ketchup ; one-fourth teaspoonful salt and mus- 
tard ; cream. Chop eggs and pepper, mix other ingredients and add 
to chopped eggs, moisten with cream and spread between thin slices 
of buttered bread. Cut in fancy shapes and keep in damp cloth until 
ready to serve. 

MAPLE SANDWICH Judith Slocum 

Put one cupful of finely shaved maple sugar through the meat 
chopper with one cupful of blanched almonds, then mix to a paste 
with thick sweet cream. Spread on slices of brown bread and white 
bread. 

167 



Sandiviclies 

iiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiijiiiiiiiiiiiiiiriiiiiiiiiiiijiiiiiiiniiiiiiii iiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiJiiiiiiiiiJiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiJiiiiiiJiJiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiii 

DATE AND NUT SANDWICHES 

Remove the stones and scales from the dates and break them up 
with a fork. Chop pecan meats fine and use twice as many dates as 
nuts. Mix together and moisten with creamed butter, add a dash of 
salt. Spread between thin slices of bread. 

CARROT AND NUT SANDWICH 

Peel and chop carrots very fine ; allow a cup of minced nut meats 
to each cup of carrots and mix with mayonnaise. 



108 



Sandwiclies 

■>■■ niiiimiiiiiimiiiiimmiiiiiiiiuiiiiiiiiiimiiiiimii i mii niiiiii iiitiinnii iiiiiiiiiiiiii iiniiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiinintiniiiiiiiiimiiii 



169 



SandwiclieB 

iirNiiMniiniuiMiiHuiiiinnininininiiiiiiiiMHiiiiiiinniniimiiuimiiiiniuiuuiiiiiiiuniiiuiiimiiMiniiimiiiiuuiiimmuiniiiiiii^ 



170 



EGG DISHES 



BAKED EGGS Mrs. C. A. Bowman 

Cover bottom of pan with fresh bread crumbs; drop eggs on 
them, being careful not to break them ; dot with butter and seasoning 
and bake. 

OMELET Mrs. E. Lewis Phelps 

One and one-half tablespoonful flour ; one and one-half tablespoon- 
ful butter; blend over fire and add one cup of milk. (This should be 
thick and stiff when cooked.) "When about cold, add one cup grated 
cheese (yellow American preferred) ; beat the yolks of seven eggs 
stiff, and when cold fold in the beaten whites ; add a little salt. Mince 
some cold boiled ham, onion and green pepper for a center filling. 
Set the dish in pan of water and bake. 

EGG BALLS Mrs. Ben Craycroft 

Serve with salad. Rub the yolks of four hard boiled eggs to a 
paste ; add a dash of salt, same of pepper ; six drops of "Worcestershire 
sauce, and one teaspoonful melted butter. Moisten with the beaten 
yolk of one egg and shape in small balls. Roll in flour and saute in 
butter. Fry to a delicate brown. 

ESCALLOPED EGGS Mrs. Ben Craycroft 

Six eggs; two tablespoonfuls of cream to each egg; season with 
pepper, butter and salt and sprinkle cracker or bread crumbs over the 
top. Bake in rather quick oven. 

ESCALLOPED EGGS 

Make a force meat of chopped ham, fine bread crumbs, pepper, 
salt, a little minced parsley and some melted butter. Moisten it with 
milk to a soft paste and half fill patty pans with the mixture. Break 
an egg carefully upon the top of each, dust with pepper, salt and sift 
some very finely powdered cracker over it all. Set in hot oven and 
bake until the eggs are well set (about eight minutes), and serve hot. 

A SETTING OF EGGS Mrs. Ben Craycroft 

Take the number of eggs to be cooked and separate the whites 
and yolks. Beat the whites to a froth, add a little salt. Butter a 
pan ; then pour in the whites ; then dip the yolks around in the whites ; 
put in oven, bake two or three minutes and serve. 

171 



Egg Dishes 

innMiMniiiMiiiJiiniiniiiniiiiiiinMiiininniiiiiniinniiiiiiiinniininiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiimmiiiiiiiiiiiiimimiiiH 

HAM OMELET Mrs. Gorham 

Chop fine cold boiled ham. Beat four eggs; add two tablespoon- 
fuls milk, salt and pepper to taste. Mix with ham and fry on hot grid- 
dle, dropping a spoonful at a time. Serve hot. Any cold meat may 
be utilized in the same way. 

OMELET Mrs. Edward E. Swadener 

Four eggs ; one-half cupful milk. Separate the whites of the eggs, 
beat to a stiff froth ; beat the yolks well and add salt, pepper and one- 
half cupful milk. Fold in the beaten whites. Have the oven hot; 
have the spider hot, put in a generous tablespoonful butter (bacon or 
ham drippings may be used), and when it melts add eggs. Let the 
omelet "set," then put it into the hot oven to brown. It should slip 
out of the spider without breaking if enough butter (or substitute) 
has been used. Have platter heated on which the omelet is to be 
served. 

EGGS POACHED WITH ARTICHOKES Mrs. Francis A. Sieber 

Cover eight rounds of toast with eight artichoke fonds (cooked 
or canned). Put a whole poached egg in center of each, and cover 
with brown sauce seasoned with ham. Dust eggs with powdered 
parsley. 

EGGS IN GREEN PEPPERS Mrs. Louis Geyler 

Chop one-half dozen hard boiled eggs; add one-half cup minced 
ham, and fill a buttered dish lined with crumbs with alternate layers 
of eggs and cream sauce, seasoned with salt, minced green peppers, 
parsley and chives. Spread crumbs on top, dot with butter, and bake ; 
or bake in green peppers. 

SPANISH EGG Mrs. Harry H. Small 

Blend two tablespoonfuls of melted butter and one tablespoonful 
of flour in a chafing dish. Add one pint of milk and cook to a thick 
cream. Add salt and paprika and a dash of cayenne pepper. Then 
add half a pound of American cheese cut in very small pieces and cook 
until well blended together. Have one large onion and one green 
pepper cut in chips and fried tender in butter, taking care not to 
brown the onion. Add to the onion and pepper one-half can of toma- 
toes, cook for five minutes together, and add to the cream sauce. Have 
six eggs boiled hard, slice and add to the mixture. Serve on toast on 
hot plates. 

EGGS IN BATTER 

One egg; one and one-half tablespoonfuls thick cream; two ta- 
blespoonfuls fine stale bread crumbs; one-fourth teaspoonful salt. 
Mix cream, bread crumbs and salt. Put one-half tablespoonful of 
mixture in egg-shirrer. Slip in egg and cover with remaining mix- 
ture. Bake six minutes in moderate oven. 

172 



Egg Dishes 

iiiiiiiiiiiriiiimiiiiiiiininniininiiuiininiininniiniiiinriJiuiiMitMiiMiiiriiiininiNiiiiiiiNnuinininininniiiihiniuiuHMiiniinniininjniiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiNiiiiiiNiiiiiiiiiiiii 

SCOTCH EGGS FOR BREAKFAST Mrs. A. M. Studley 

Boil six eggs twenty minutes. When cold, remove shells. Roll 
in sausage meat about one-half inch thick all over ; put in the ice box 
over night. Then fry, turning all the time till brown. Serve on 
platter, cutting them open, and garnish with Saratoga potatoes. 

POACHED EGGS ON RICE TOAST 

Put one quart of rice into one quart of boiling water, to which has 
been added one teaspoonful salt, boil rapidly for fifteen minutes, then 
place on back of stove and steam twenty minutes. When the rice has 
absorbed all of the water press into a square mold or bread pan and set 
aside to cool. When cold cut into slices, place in wire broiler and 
toast over hot fire. Poach as many eggs as you have slices of toast 
and place an egg on each slice. Sprinkle with pepper and salt and 
serve very hot. 

EGGS DELICIOUS Alice Clock 

Six hard boiled eggs; one pint milk; one tablespoonful (heap- 
ing) butter; two tablespoonfuls flour; one tin sifted peas. Mix the 
butter and flour smoothly; slowly add milk while stirring constantly 
over slow fire, until white sauce is nicely smooth. Season sauce to 
taste, with paprika and salt ; and add hard-boiled eggs, cut in halves. 
Pour over the whole the sifted peas, and as soon as the peas are heated, 
being careful not to stir, serve on rounds of toast. This amount will 
serve six people. 

EGG RELISH Mrs. A. Donald Campbell 

One cupful of bread crumbs ; one cup cream and five eggs. When 
the cream has been absorbed by the crumbs and the eggs well beaten 
add pepper and salt with a teaspoonful of chopped parsley. Fry as 
an omelet. 

EGG GARNISH 

Boil six eggs. Cut them into halves, and remove yolks. Fill 
the whites with chopped cucumbers, over which a French dressing has 
been poured. Serve these upon shredded lettuce. 

A LUNCHEON DISH Mrs. William E. Mason 

Butter baking dish; drop in six eggs, whole; grate American 
cheese, thickly. Sprinkle a little salt, pepper and small pieces of but- 
ter over them and bake slowly. Serve in baking dish. 

EGGS A LA BUCKINGHAM 

Make five slices milk toast, and arrange on platter. Use receipe 
for scrambled eggs, having the eggs slightly under-done. Pour eggs 
over toast, sprinkle with four tablespoonfuls grated mild cheese. Put 
in oven to melt cheese, and finish cooking eggs. 

173 



Egg Dishes 

iinnniiiiniiiunininiiHniiHniniiiniiiiiiniiiiiiniiiMuiiMiiiiNniiHiMiiiHiiiininiiiinininiiHiinnniiniuiniiuiiiiMnniniiiiHinniininiiiniiiiiiiimimmiMiiiMiiimiimiil 

EGGS A LA GOLDENROD Charlotte V. Thearle 

Three hard boiled eggs, one tablespoonful butter, one table- 
spoonful flour, one cup milk, one-half teaspoonful salt, one-third tea- 
spoonful pepper, five slices toast, parsley. Make a thin white sauce 
with butter, flour, milk and seasonings. Separate yolks from whites 
of eggs. Chop whites finely and add them to the sauce. Cut four 
slices of toast in halves lengthwise. Arrange on platter and pour over 
the sauce. Force the yolks through a potato ricer or strainer, sprink- 
ling over the top. Garnish with parsley and remaining toast cut in 
points. 

EGGS A LA MARTIN 

One cup white sauce, six eggs, one-fourth pound grated cheese. 
Break eggs carefully into a well buttered pudding dish, cover with 
white sauce and sprinkle cheese over all. Bake fifteen minutes in mod- 
erate oven. 

EGGS A LA LEE Mrs. Harry F. Atwood 

Cover circular pieces of toasted bread with thin slices cold boiled 
ham. Arrange on each a dropped egg, and pour around mushroom 
sauce. 

Sauce: Clean one-fourth pound mushrooms, break cap in pieces, 
and saute five minutes in one tablespoonful butter. Add one cup 
chicken stock and simmer five minutes. Rub through a sieve and 
thicken with one tablespoonful each butter and flour cooked together. 
Season with salt and pepper. 

EGGS A LA FRANCOISE 

Poach two eggs in boiling water acidulated with lemon juice and 
slightly salted. Arrange the eggs on rounds of toasted bread, pour 
over a tomato sauce made as follows, and garnish with toast points. 

Sauce : Put one large tablespoonful butter in the chafing dish 
(or skillet), one teaspoonful minced onion, one tablespoonful minced 
carrot and fry. With this blend two level tablespoonfuls flour and 
add one cup of canned tomatoes sifted, and one-third teaspoonful beef 
extract. Dissolve in one tablespoonful hot water, simmer and strain. 

TO BOIL EGGS FOR AN INVALID 

Have water boiling, pour over eggs and cover tightly; put on 
back of stove and stand five minutes. The whites of the eggs will be 
firmly set and the yolks soft. 



174 



Egg Dishes 

•■> >> > < iiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiir t iiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiimiiiiiiiiiiiii iiiiimiii iiiiiiiniiiiiiiiii niiiiiiiiiiiiii iiitiiiiiiimiiim iiiiihhi 



175 



Egg: Dishes 

Nnnuiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiniiii niiiiiiiiMUiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiuiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiimiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiii iiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiii 



170 



CHEESE DISHES 



Wilt, please, your honor, taste of tJiese." 

— Shakespeare. 



CHEESE BALLS Mrs. W. H. Hart 

One and one-half cupfuls cream cheese ; one-half teaspoonf ul salt ; 
one-fourth teaspoonf ul paprika ; three eggs, whites beaten firm ; cracker 
crumbs. Add salt and paprika to cheese, then fold in whites and roll 
into small balls ; roll in cracker crumbs and fry in deep fat. 

CHEESE SOUFFLE Mrs. Max Mauerman 

Two tablespoonfuls flour ; two tablespoonfuls butter ; one-half cup 
grated cheese ; four eggs ; one pint of milk. 

Method : Rub butter and flour together over fire ; when they bub- 
ble, add gradually hot milk. Remove from fire ; add the beaten yolks ; 
cool the mixture; then add the beaten whites, stirring all together 
thoroughly. Put in baking dish well buttered, bake in moderately hot 
oven for fifteen or twenty minutes or until it sets like custard. Serve 
at once. 

CHEESE SOUFFLE Mrs. Frank Sessions 

Break a slice of fresh bread about three inches thick into small 
pieces, pour over it a cup of milk, let stand while you prepare the rest 
of the ingredients. Grate enough yellow American cheese to make 
three heaping tablespoonfuls; beat three eggs until light and frothy; 
add the cheese and eggs to the bread, mix thoroughly and put in a 
buttered baking dish ; bake half an hour or until brown. Serve imme- 
diately. 

FROZEN CHEESE 

Rub two Neufchatel cheese to a paste, add one cup whipped 
cream, one-half cup finely chopped olives, one-fourth cup finely chopped 
pimentoes. Season with salt, cayenne, lemon juice or vinegar to taste. 
Soften one teaspoonful granulated gelatine in one tablespoonful cold 
water, dissolve over hot water, cool and add to cheese, mix well and 
turn into one-half pound baking powder cans previously wet with cold 
water, cover with a piece of white paper, adjust covers and pack in ice 
and salt. Let stand for several hours. Serve with salad course with 
toasted water crackers. 

177 



Cheese Dishes 

iiiiiiiniiiiiiiiiiinHiiiiiiiiniiiiiiiiiiiiiiiniiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiimiiimminiiiiiiiiiiiiimiiiiiiiniiiiiMiiiMiiiimiiiiiiiiiriiiiiiiiiiiiitiiitin 

SUNDAY SUPPER MUSH Mrs. A. Donald Campbell 

One cup corn meal; one quart of milk, salted to taste. Cook in 
double boiler. Just before removing, add one egg. Spread the mix- 
ture on a board three-fourths inch thick. "When cold, cut in shapes 
and put slice of American cheese on top, put in buttered dish and set 
in oven long enough for cheese to melt and brown. 

CHEESE DELIGHT Mrs. H. Clay Calhoun 

One-half pound American cheese ; two eggs, well beaten ; salt and 
paprika to taste. Cook in a double boiler until thick. Serve on round 
of bread and toast in oven. 

CHEESE RICE Mrs. Ralph Wilder 

Fill a baking dish with alternate layers of cooked salted rice and 
grated cheese; moisten with milk and cover with bits of butter; add 
dash of red pepper if liked. Bake to golden brown. 

CHEESE STRAWS Mrs. Elizabeth P. Pearce 

One cupful grated cheese; salt and pepper to taste; two table- 
spoonfuls melted butter; three tablespoonfuls cold water, and flour 
sufficient for soft dough. Cut into strips. Bake in a quick oven 
until brown and crispy. 

CHEESE BALLS Susy M. Horton 

Beat two eggs very light, and just enough grated cheese to handle 
the mixture, red pepper and salt to taste. Roll into balls, the size 
of a walnut, dip in egg and cracker crumbs and fry in hot lard a deli- 
cate brown. To be served hot with salad. 

WELSH RAREBIT Mrs. Harry H. Small 

One pound of American cheese cut in dice ; butter the size of an 
egg', melt butter and cheese in a chafing dish, blending together until 
smooth. Beat up one egg and stir into cheese, adding milk until the 
right consistency. Add mustard salt and paprika and a teaspoonful 
of Worcestershire sauce. Serve on thin slices of toast, on hot plates. 

WELSH RAREBIT 

One cup hot milk ; one-quarter pound grated cheese ; one-half tea- 
spoonful salt ; one-quarter teaspoonful mustard ; one teaspoonful flour ; 
one teaspoonful butter; one egg; dash of cayenne. Put the milk to 
heat. Mix the grated cheese, flour, mustard, salt, cayenne and egg well 
beaten, add milk when hot, a little at a time, to the mixture, stirring 
all the time. Cook until smooth and very creamy. Take from heat 
and add butter, stirring well. Serve hot on slices of toast. The milk 
should be added slowly. Toast bread on one side only. Pour rarebit 
on untoasted side. 

178 



Cheese Dishes 

iiiniiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiniiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiniiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiniiiiiniiiiiiiiininiiiiniiniiiiiiiiiniiiiiniiiiiiiiiiiiinininiiiiiiMitiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiMiiiiiiiiiim 

CHEESE WAFERS Mrs. Helen Armstrong 

Beat the whites of two eggs very stiff; add pepper and salt; mix 
in gently half a cup grated cheese ; spread lightly over salted wafers. 
Sprinkle with cheese and brown in moderate oven. 

CHEESE BALLS Mrs. Fred L. Kimmey 

Whites of three eggs; one cup grated cheese; one tablespoonful 
flour; pinch of salt and red pepper. Form into balls, roll in cracker 
crumbs and fry in deep fat. This makes fifteen small balls. 



179 



Egg Dishes 

iiiiiiiiiiiii J iiitiiiiniii iiiiiiiiiiuniniiiiiiiniiniiiiiiiiiiiHiiiiiiiniii iiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiitiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiniiiiiuiiiiHiuiiiiiniiiiiiiiiiiiiiiuiiiiiniiiii 



180 



CANDIES 



'A wilderness of sweets." 

— Milton. 



FONDANT Mrs. E. A. Thompson 

Two and one-half pounds fine granulated sugar ; one and one-half 
cups water ; one-half teaspoonful cream of tartar. Place in a saucepan, 
set on back of stove. When clear let come to a boil until it reaches 
242 degrees, or until it holds together when dropped into cold water. 
Take from fire and cool. When lukewarm, beat until thick enough 
to kneed, turn out on marble or platter and work until thick. 

FONDANT 

One pound white sugar and half cup water, stir over the fire until 
it dissolves, no longer. Then boil, without stirring, until it makes a 
very soft ball when tested in water (cold). Pour out on a platter and 
when slightly cool beat until you have a creamy mass, then work and 
knead with the hands until it is soft and smooth. Never boil but one 
pound of sugar at a time no matter how much candy you intend 
making. Pack your fondant all together in an earthen bowl and cover 
with a damp cloth until the next day. Then shape into the desired 
forms. Use for all kinds of French creams. 

MEXICAN CARAMELS Mrs. A. Donald Campbell 

One cup granulated sugar; one large cup milk or cream; one- 
fourth teaspoonful soda. Caramel the sugar and add soda to milk 
warmed; after caramel is dissolved add two cups of brown sugar; do 
not let boil until sugar is thoroughly dissolved; then boil until it 
hardens when dropped in cold water. Add cup of nut meats. 

COFFEE CARAMELS 

One cupful sugar and one-half cupful cream and one-quarter cup- 
ful strong coffee. Stir constantly over a hot fire, and turn on a 
greased tin. 

MAPLE CARAMELS 

One cupful sugar (maple) and three-quarters of a cupful of cream, 
placed in a saucepan. Stir constantly over a hot fire until it reaches 
the hard boil stage. Remove from fire, and turn on a greased tin. 

181 



Candies 

liiiiniiiiiiiiiiiniiniiiiiiiniiiiiiiiiiinijiiiiiiiiiiiiiniiiiiiiiiiiiinriiiiiiiiriiiiiriiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiri iiiiiiiiiiiiiiniiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiniiiiuiiiiiiliiiiiiiiitiuuitiiiiliil 

VANILLA CARAMELS 

Two level cups ''Coffee C" brown sugar; one-half cup corn 
syrup ; two-thirds cup cream ; one cup chopped nuts. Boil sugar, cream 
and corn syrup without stirring until hard ball forms when tried in 
cold water. Add nuts and vanilla, remove from fire and pour at once 
into buttered tin. Do not stir caramels. When cold, remove from pan 
in one sheet and cut in squares. Wrap in wax paper. 

CHOCOLATE CARAMELS 

Put in a saucepan half a cupful each of molasses, white sugar 
and brown sugar ; a cupful of grated chocolate and a cupful of cream 
or milk. Stir the mixture constantly over the fire until it reaches the 
hard-boil stage. Then add a teaspoonful vanilla and turn it onto a 
buttered tin, making the paste an inch thick. Mark it into inch squares 
and cut before it is quite cold. 

CHOCOLATE CARAMELS Mrs. E. A. Thompson 

Two squares chocolate; one cup sugar; one cup molasses; one cup 
milk; one-half cup melted butter. Boil on the top of stove over a 
brisk fire until it becomes brittle when dropped in cold water. Do not 
stir, but shake the vessel while boiling. Pour into a buttered tin and 
check off into squares. 

VANILLA CARAMELS 

One cupful sugar and three-quarters of a cupful cream, placed 
in a saucepan. Stir constantly over a hot fire until it reaches the 
hard-boil stage. Remove from fire, add a teaspoonful vanilla and turn 
on a greased tin. 

KARO CARAMELS 

Boil one cup sugar, one cup Karo corn syrup, one-fourth cup water 
six minutes, then add two tablespoonfuls butter, and cook to the soft 
ball stage. Beat in a teaspoonful of vanilla extract or half a cup 
candied cherries cut in halves; beat thoroughly and turn into a shal- 
low buttered dish. When cold cut in cubes and wrap in confectioner's 
paper. 

ENGLISH WALNUT CANDY 

The white of one egg, beaten stiff; add a pound of Confectioners* 
sugar; stirring the sugar and egg till the mixture is stiff enough to 
roll into little balls. Add vanilla, and press the balls of candy between 
the halves of an English walnut. 

COCOANUT CANDY 

Two cups white sugar; one cup milk; one cup molasses; one-half 
cup butter ; try as molasses candy, and when done add one and one-half 
cups cocoanut and one teaspoonful vanilla. 

182 



Candies 

iiiiiriiriiiiiiiiiiiiiitnitiniiiiiiniiiiiitiiniiriniiitiiiiiiiiiiriiiiiiniiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiitiitniiiiiiiiKii i iiiiiiiiiiiiniiiiiiiiiiMiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiniiiiiMiiiiiiiiMiiiiiiiniiiiiinl 

MAPLE CREAM 

To one pound of maple sugar take half a pint cream. Cook 
until it hardens in water. Stir frequently. Beat until cool. 

CHOCOLATE CREAMS 

Put three squares of chocolate in a dish over a tea kettle to melt. 
Boil two cups of white sugar, one cup water, one teaspoonful of glu- 
cose until stringy ; beat until creamy ; mold into the desired shapes and 
dip in chocolate. Put on whole nuts if desired. 

NOUGAT 

One cupful almonds, chopped and placed in oven to dry, being 
careful not to brown. Put into a saucepan two and one-half cupfuls 
powdered sugar and a tablespoonful lemon juice. Place it on fire 
and stir with a wooden spoon until it is melted and slightly colored. 
Let stand for a few minutes, so it will be thoroughly melted, then 
turn in the hot almonds, mix them together quickly, not stirring long 
enough to grain the sugar, and turn it on to an oiled slab or tin. 
Spread it out in an even sheet an eighth of an inch thick. While it 
is still warm mark off into squares. Break into pieces when cold. 

SUGARED ALMONDS 

Put a cupful granulated sugar in a saucepan with a little water, 
stir until it is dissolved, then let it cook to the boil stage without 
touching except to test. Turn in half cupful of blanched almonds 
and stir off the fire until the nuts are well covered with the gran- 
ulated sugar, but turn them out before they become a mass. Boil 
another cupful of sugar and turn the coated almonds into it, and 
stir again in the same way, giving them a second coating of sugar, 
but do not leave them in the pan until they are all stuck together. 

BURNT ALMONDS 

Place a cupful of brown sugar into a saucepan with a very little 
water. Stir until the sugar is dissolved. Let it boil a minute, then 
pour in half a cupful of almonds and stir over the fire until the sugar 
granulates and is a little brown. "When the nuts are well coated, and 
before they get into one mass, turn them out and separate any that 
are stuck together. 

MARSHMALLOWS 

One-half box granulated gelatin soaked in three-fourths cup cold 
water (scant) ; two cups sugar cooked with three-fourths cup boiling 
water (scant) only until dissolved. Pour over gelatin, add flavoring 
and pinch salt and let stand until lukewarm. Beat first with egg 
beater, then with a spoon until stiff enough to spread in sheets. Pour 
into pans thickly dusted with mixture of powdered sugar and little 
com starch. When chilled, turn on marble slab or platter and cut in 
cubes, roll in powdered sugar mixture and serve. 

188 



Candies 

lMiiininHiniiiiMiriiniijiiiiiiiMiiiiMMniniiiMiNiiiniiinHnniiiMinHMUinMninniinnnHninM!iiijiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiniiiiiiiiiiiiiririiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiriiiMiiiiiiiiiiillliliiil 

MARSHMALLOWS 

Soak four ounces of gum arable in a cupful of water until it is 
dissolved. Strain it to take out any black specks in it. Put the dis- 
solved gum arabic into a saucepan with half a pound of powdered 
sugar. Place the saucepan in a second pan containing boiling water; 
stir until the mixture becomes thick and white. When it is begin- 
ning to thicken test it by dropping a little into cold water; when it 
will form a ball remove it from fire. Stir into it the whites of three 
eggs whipped to a stiff froth. This will give a spongy texture. Lastly, 
flavor it with two teaspoonfuls of orange water. Turn the paste into 
a pan covered thick with cornstarch; the layer of paste should 
be one inch thick. After the paste has stood for a while turn it 
onto a slab and cut it into inch squares; dust them well with corn- 
starch or confectioner's sugar. As the paste is more or less cooked 
it will be more or less stiff. 

PEPPERMINT OR 

WINTERGREEN PATTIES Mrs. E. A. Thompson 

One pound confectioner's sugar; six large tablespoonfuls water; 
six drops oil of peppermint or wintergreen; a little bit of cream of 
tartar put into a cup with a bit of sugar and the oil. Boil until it 
ropes, then remove from fire and stir in the cream of tartar, oil and the 
sugar. 

CHOCOLATE PEPPERMINTS Mrs. A. H. Wagoner 

Take two pounds confectioner's sugar and add enough water to 
make it the right consistency to roll into balls. Flavor with pepper- 
mint and roll out on waxed paper with a rolling pin. Cut out the pep- 
permints. With water in the under part of the chafing dish melt half 
a pound of Baker's chocolate and dip the peppermint on the end of a 
fork. Set on waxed paper to harden. 

SEA FOAM 

Two cups light brown sugar; one-half cup water; boil together 
until a little dropped in cold water forms a soft ball. Remove from 
fire. Beat in a deep bowl the whites of two eggs to a froth, add candy 
syrup, one-half teaspoonful vanilla and beat in until it begins to stiffen. 
Drop with spoon on waxed paper and press on a nut meat. Will keep 
moist in a glass jar. 

DIVINITY FUDGE Mrs. A. Donald Campbell 

Whites of two eggs, well beaten ; two cups granulated sugar ; one- 
third cup Karo corn syrup boiled together with one-half cup hot water ; 
boil until syrup forms hard (not brittle) strands when dropped in cold 
water; one teaspoonful vanilla. Pour the boiling mixture over whites 
of eggs, beating constantly ; beat mixture until pure white. Add nuts 
or cherries, etc., which should be cut up before cooking syrup. Turn 
entire mixture out on buttered platter; let stand an hour, or until 
hard enough to cut. 

184 



Candies 

iiiiiiiiliiiiniiliiiiliiiliniiiiininiiiniiiiiiiiiiiiirHiiiiiniiiiuiiiiiiiiiniiiiiHuniiiiiniiiiirniiiiiiiiniiiiniiiiiiniiinuMNiiiMiiiHiiiniiiiiJiiniitHiiiMiiiiinNniuiiiiUHuni^ 

DIVINITY CANDY 

Two and one-half cups granulated sugar ; one-half cup corn syrup ; 
one-half cup cold water; whites of two eggs beaten to a stiff froth. 
Boil the first three ingredients until a little dropped into cold water 
can be formed into a firm ball. When done pour over the eggs and 
beat until stiff, then add one cup walnut meats. Spread in a buttered 
pan and cut into squares. 

OCEAN FOAM 

One cup sugar; one-half cup corn syrup; one-half cup water. Boil 
mixture until hard when dropped in cold water. Add stiffly beaten 
whites of two eggs, beat until it stiffens and becomes foamy. Add one 
cup nuts and vanilla to flavor. Pour into buttered tin. 

FUDGES Emily L. Wegner 

Two cups granulated sugar; one cup milk; one-half teaspoonful 
butter; two squares Baker's bitter chocolate. Put on sugar and milk, 
let it come to a boil before adding butter and chocolate. Beat con- 
stantly. Cook from fifteen to twenty minutes. This may be varied by 
adding chopped nuts or grated cocoanut. 

FUDGE 

Boil together a pint of milk ; a cup of granulated sugar ; a cup of 
grated chocolate and butter the size of an egg. When a drop of the 
mixture hardens in cold water add a teaspoonful vanilla, beat until 
smooth and creamy ; spread in a buttered pan and cut into squares. 

CHOCOLATE FUDGE 

One cupful milk ; two squares or ounces of chocolate ; two cupfuls 
granulated sugar placed in granite sauce pan. Let chocolate syrup boil 
till it hardens, when a little can be dropped in cold water or on ice to 
see if it is done. Then stir in a heaping tablespoonful butter and pour 
the mixture at once on a well buttered tin. Nuts can be added to this 
if desired. 

CABAMEL FUDGE 

Two cups granulated cane sugar; three-fourths cup milk; one- 
half cup butter; one teaspoonful vanilla; one cup nuts. Place the 
butter, milk and one and one-half cups sugar in one pan, and let it 
boil. In another pan melt the half cup sugar, and when melted pour 
upon it the boiling mixture. Remove from fire and beat until it 
thickens ; add vanilla and nuts. Pour on buttered platter. 

PEANUT BUTTER FUDGE 

Two cups confectionery sugar ; two tablespoonfuls peanut butter ; 
one-half cup milk. When mixture starts to boil, stir constantly until 
it thickens. Pour into buttered tin. 

185 



Candies 

itiiiunnriinirinniiiniiNiimnnniiniiiinuMinuiiiuininiiiMniitnuiniuiinHiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiriiMiiiiiiiuinuiHiniiiuiiiiinuiuiiuimiiiiiiiiiimmiiiiiiiiimmiiiiim 

CREAM OF CARAMEL FUDGE 

Boil two and one-half cupfuls brown sugar, one cupful cream. 
When hard turn on a greased tin. 

MAPLE FUDGE 

Break into small pieces a pound of maple sugar and put it over 
the fire with a cupful of milk. Bring it to a boil, add a tablespoonful 
of butter and cook until a little dropped in cold water becomes brittle. 
Take from fire, stir until it begins to granulate a little about the sides 
of the pan, and then pour into a greased pan. Mark into squares with 
a knife. 

MAPLE SUGAR FUDGE 

Boil two and one-half cupfuls maple sugar, one cupful cream. 
When little hard turn on greased tin. 

COCOANUT FUDGE 

Boil two and one-half cupfuls white sugar, one cupful cream. Add 
one tablespoonful butter, and when hard pour on greased tin. 

CANDIED ORANGE PEEL Mrs. A. J. Langan 

Take nice thick orange peel, soak over night in salt water. In 
the morning take out peel, boil in fresh water until tender, then add 
sugar, pound for pound, boil until the peel is clear and thick. Seal in 
glass jars, and when wanted cut in long strips, roll in sugar and serve. 

ORANGE OR 

GRAPE FRUIT STRAWS Mrs. Harry Pagin, Valparaiso, Ind. 

Take peeling of two large oranges, or grape fruit, or both, and cut 
with scissors in narrow lengthwise strips. Cover with cold water, put 
on stove and boil twenty minutes. Pour off water. Cover with water 
and boil twenty minutes more. Pour off water. Cover with water and 
boil twenty minutes more. Pour off water and add one cup sugar and 
one-half cup of hot water. Let simmer until almost dry, taking care 
not to bum. Take from stove and roll, a few at a time, in grarhilated 
sugar. 

HONEY CANDY 

Four tablespoonfuls honey, one pint white sugar, water enough 
to dissolve sugar; boil until brittle when tried in water. When cool 
pull. 

BUTTER SCOTCH Mrs. R. A. Dandliker 

Two cups sugar; two tablespoonfuls vinegar; two tablespoonfuls 
water; four tablespoonfuls molasses; one-half cup butter. Boil about 
fifteen minutes, then add two teaspoonfuls vanilla. Cook till it hardens 
in water, do not stir. Pour into buttered pans. 

186 



Candies 

iiHiimiiiimiiniiiiimMiimiiiiiiiimiiMiiiiiiiitiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiMiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiijiiiiiiii iiiiiiiiiiiiiiiJuiiiiniiiiiiiiiiiMmiiiiiiiiiiiniiiiiiiiiriiiiiiiitiiiiiiiiiniiiiu 

THREE MINUTE BUTTER-SCOTCH 

Use three-fourths cup sugar, one tablespoonful water, butter size 
of an egg, one-half tablespoonful vinegar. Boil until brittle; pour on 
buttered plates. 

WALNUT MOLASSES BALLS 

One cup New Orleans molasses; cream of tartar size of a pea; 
three cups white sugar; one-half cup water. Boil mixture slowly until 
soft ball forms when tried in cold water. Add butter size of an egg 
and boil until brittle when tried in cold water. Add one-half teaspoon- 
ful soda and remove from fire. Spread three cups black walnut meats 
thickly on well buttered tin and pour candy over same. When cool 
knead into balls. 

MOLASSES CANDY 

Put into a saucepan one cupful of brown sugar, two cupfuls of 
New Orleans molasses and a tablespoonful each of butter and vinegar. 
Mix them well and boil until it will harden when dropped in water. 
Then stir in a teaspoonful baking soda, which will whiten it, and turn 
it into a greased tin to cool ; when it can be handled, pull it until white 
and firm. Draw it into sticks and cut into inch lengths. 

MOLASSES KISSES 

One level cup sugar; two cups molasses; two level teaspoonfuls 
corn starch ; one-eighth teaspoonful soda. Mix sugar and corn starch 
thoroughly and beat in molasses. When well blended heat slowly, 
stirring constantly. When mixture forms hard ball if dropped in cold 
water, remove from fire, add soda and pour into buttered pan. When 
cool, pull until straw colored, cut and wrap in waxed paper. 

CREAM TAFFY 

Two cups sugar; one cup water; two tablespoonfuls vinegar; one 
teaspoonful cream tartar. Cook until brittle ; pour into buttered pan. 
Then cool enough to handle ; pull until white. 

PEANUT CANDY 

Put into a saucepan three-fourths cup corn syrup, three-fourths 
cup sugar, a large piece of butter, and one and one-half tablespoonfuls 
of vinegar. Boil until a little dropped into cold water becomes brittle. 
Then add one pound salted peanuts. Spread into buttered pan and cut 
into squares or oblongs. 

STUFFED DATES 

Take some fondant, small pieces of walnuts, almonds, bits of 
date, a few raisins, a small piece of citron ; mix well ; if not wet enough 
when molded add a few drops of water and lemon juice. Take the 
seeds from the dates and fill with this mixture. Roll in granulated 
sugar. 

187 



Candies 

iiiiiiiniMjnniiiiininiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiimiiiMiiiiiiinnMinnniniiiinniiiiiinjuiniiiMiniiuiMniijnMiiiiiuiniiiiinnnuiiiininMiniiiMiiiiinuiNiiiiiilimimiiim 

OLD-FASHIONED TAFFY 

Put into a saucepan two and one-half cupfuls of sugar and one- 
half cupful of water. Stir until it is dissolved. Then wash the sides 
of the pan and let it boil without touching a few moments, and add a 
tablespoonful butter and let boil until it will crack when tested in cold 
water. Add a teaspoonful vanilla and turn in onto a tin to cool. Mark 
it off into squares before it becomes cold. 

PUFFED RICE CANDY Helen Collins 

One cup granulated sugar; one-fourth cup water; one-fourth cup 
molasses; one teaspoonful butter; one drop oil of peppermint. Boil 
sugar, water, molasses and butter imtil it forms a hard ball when 
dropped into cold water. Remove from fire, add peppermint, stir and 
pour over one package of puffed rice, stirring until rice is coated. 

PEANUT CANDY 

Fill a small square tin half an inch deep with shelled peanuts, leav- 
ing the skins on. Boil some sugar until done and pour it over the nuts, 
just covering them. Cut into squares before it becomes cold. 

PEPPERMINTS 

Two cups sugar; one-half cup water; one-half teaspoonful cream 
of tartar ; seven or eight drops of oil of peppermint. Boil until a drop 
of syrup on tip of fork looks like a fine hair. Remove from fire, add 
cream of tartar and peppermint, and stir until creamy. Drop on 
waxed paper. 

AFTER DINNER MINTS 

Two level cups sugar; one-fourth teaspoonful cream of tartar; 
one-half cup boiling water; three drops peppermint. Boil sugar, water 
and cream tartar until dissolved. Let boil without stirring until it 
forms soft ball when dropped in cold water. Set aside to cool. When 
lukewarm add peppermint and beat until creamy. Drop from spoon 
on wax paper or marble slab. If preferred, use checkerberry or creme 
de menthe. 

POP CORN BALLS 

Twelve quarts all white grains pop corn, warm and pour over this 
in a large dishpan the following syrup while hot: Half cup molasses 
or corn syrup ; half cup sugar ; three tablespoonfuls water. Boil until 
it crisps in cold water. Stir with a spoon all the candy thoroughly 
through the com. Butter fingers, then press with hands into balls. 



188 



Candies 

iiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiriitiiniitniiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiniiniiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiininiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiMiiiiiiiiiiiiMmiriiiiiiiiMHiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiii iiiiiiiiiiiiiiniin 



1S9 



Candies 

uiitniiniiiniininiii... , „„„,„,„„ „„„„„„„ „„„„ ,„„„ „„„„„„,„„„„„„„„ „„„„„„„„„ , „„„„„„„ „„„„ ,„„„ 



190 



ADDENDA 



DOUGHNUTS Mrs. Edw. Tilden 

One cupful sugar; one cupful sour milk; one-fourth teaspoonful 
soda; two eggs; flour enough to make batter to roll and cut; pinch 
salt; two teaspoonfuls melted lard; two teaspoonfuls baking powder. 
Fry in hot lard. This Avill make about thirty-five. 

ORANGE SOUFFLE Mrs. Wm. P. Conger 

One cupful sugar; five eggs; one cupful milk; two tablespoon- 
fuls butter; two tablespoonfuls flour. Beat yolks and whites sep- 
arately; mix sugar and yolks together; cook flour, butter and milk 
together; then stir all together with whites of eggs and juice of two 
oranges and bake slowly in oven. 

Orange sauce : Whites of three eggs ; one cupful sugar ; added 
slowly to the juice of two oranges and a squeeze of lemon. When 
finished it must have the consistency of frosting. 

SOUR MILK BAKING POWDER BISCUITS Mrs. E. Downs 

To a quart of flour add three level teaspoonfuls baking powder; 
half a teaspoonful salt; one teaspoonful sugar; two tablespoonfuls 
shortening, rubbed into the above ingredients and enough sour milk 
to make a soft dough. No soda used. 

LOBSTER A LA NEWBURG Mrs. Charles E. Frankenthal 

One pint of cream boiled fifteen minutes, stirring constantly; 
add paprika, salt and Coleman's mustard. Boil lobster early in the 
day and cut into good sized pieces. Add to cream. Dissolve two 
tablespoonfuls corn starch in cold water, stir into mixture, then add 
yolks of two well beaten eggs. Just before serving add small quan- 
tity of sherry wine. Serve very hot on toast. 

ORANGE MARMALADE Mrs. D. Homer Levy 

One large grapefruit; one large orange; one large lemon. Slice 
fruit in very thin pieces; take out seeds but do not peel; take three 
times as much water as fruit ; let this mixture stand for twelve hours. 
Boil this mixture for ten minutes. Take as much granulated sugar 
as you have fruit ; after mixing fruit and sugar, let stand for twenty- 
four hours ; then boil until thick ; about one and one-half hours. 

191 



Addenda 

iiiiiiiiiiiiiiniiiiiiniiiiiiiiniiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiuiiiiiiiiiiitiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiniiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiMii 

CABBAGE EN CASSEROLE Mrs. K. T. Gary 

Shave the cabbage the same as for salad and pack in casserole. 
To a quarter of a (granite) cup of water add two tablespoonfuls of 
brown sugar (white sugar does not give the same flavor), season with 
pepper and salt, mix all together and pour over the cabbage. Cover 
the top of the cabbage with strips of bacon, cover with lid of casserole 
and bake for one hour in oven. Remove cover and let the bacon 
brown before placing on the table. 

GREEN PEPPER SALAD Mrs. S. E. Baumgardner 

Cut peppers into rings about three-fourths inch wide; fill with 
cream cheese which has been reduced with cream to a thick paste and 
pecan nuts chopped fine. 

SALAD DRESSING Grace Pearson 

One heaping teaspoonful each of salt and dry mustard mixed 
with one tablespoonful vinegar ; add two eggs, one bottle of cream and 
a small piece of butter. Cook in double boiler — stirring constantly. 
Do not cook too long or mixture will curdle. Thin with one table- 
spoonful olive oil. 

GREEN TOMATO MINCE MEAT Daisy V. Heist 

One full peck green tomatoes ; one-half peck cooking apples, cut 
fine; five pounds sugar; one pound each of raisins and currants; one 
cupful suet, chopped fine; two nutmegs grated; one tablespoonful 
each cinnamon, cloves and ginger; one pint boiled cider; one cupful 
vinegar. Wash and put tomatoes through meat grinder fine. Cover 
with water, let come to a boil, drain off all water, cover again, let 
boil and drain again. Put all ingredients together, cook until apples 
are tender, two or three hours. Can in jars. One pint enough for one 
pie. 

PICKLED PEACHES Mrs. D. Homer Levy 

Seven pounds of peaches; four pounds sugar; one pint vinegar; 
cinnamon and whole cloves (heads removed). Boil sugar, vinegar 
and spices (tied in a bag) until syrup; drop in whole peaches and 
boil until tender ; can and seal at once. 

LEMON PIE Mrs. Fannie E. Hurlbut 

Juice and rind of three lemons ; two cupfuls sugar ; one-half cup- 
ful butter; four eggs, beaten separately; one cupful milk; two tea- 
spoonfuls corn starch dissolved in milk. Cream butter and sugar; 
add yolks, then milk, then lemon juice and whites of eggs, last. 

192 



Addenda 

iiiiiiiiiiiiiNiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiitiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiMiiiiiiiiiniiiiiiiiiiniiiiniiiiiniiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiniiiiiiiiiiii 

COCOANUT PIE Annie Handschu 

One pint milk; two cupfuls coeoanut; two tablespoonfuls corn 
starch ; one-tialf cupful sugar ; pinch salt ; three eggs. Boil milk, cocoa- 
nut, yolks of eggs, sugar and com starch in double boiler twenty min- 
utes. Add beaten white of egg. For the top of pie used powdered 
sugar and two beaten whites — sprinkle with coeoanut and brown in 
oven. 

HANNAH'S BRANBERRIES 

One cup raisins, chopped fine; one cup sugar; one egg; juice of 
one lemon and grated rind. Make rich crust, roll thin and cut in six 
inch squares ; put in a spoonful of the above mixture and fold comers 
to center. 

CARAMEL ICING Mrs. Nancy L. Hilliard 

Two cupfuls brown sugar; two-thirds cupful cream; butter, size 
of a walnut. Mix well and boil until candied. If desired use cupful 
of nut meats chopped fine, add to icing when done. Takes one hour 
to cook in double boiler. 

INEXPENSIVE SPICE CAKE Mrs. Daisy Jones 

One cupful sugar; one-fourth cupful lard; one egg yolk; one cup- 
ful sour milk ; two cupfuls sifted flour ; one teaspoonful soda, dissolved ; 
one teaspoonful cinnamon; one-fourth teaspoonful each cloves and 
nutmeg; one cupful chopped raisins. Use white of egg for frosting. 

MERINGUES Mrs. D. Homer Levy 

Six eggs; two cupfuls powdered sugar; one teaspoonful each of 
vanilla extract and vinegar. Beat egg whites very stiff; slowly add 
powdered sugar, vanilla extract and vinegar; then beat all until very 
stiff. Grease a flat pan and strew with Farina and drop batter by 
spoonfuls; bake in a slow oven; remove from pan when baked. 

ALMOND TORTE Mrs. D. Homer Levy 

One pound shelled almonds; one pound granulated sugar; twelve 
eggs ; one lemon. Grate almonds fine (leave skins on) ; stir yolks of 
eggs one-half hour with sugar; add grated almonds and stir another 
half hour ; add the grated rind of lemon and juice of one-half lemon ; 
beat egg whites until stiff; stir in other mixture; place in a spring 
form, w^ell greased ; bake slowly for one hour. 

SAUCE FOR PUDDING Mrs. K. T. Gary 

One small cup sugar ; one egg ; piece of butter size of walnut ; one 
tablespoonful flour; two tablespoonfuls cold water. Beat all together 
and pour into half a pint of boiling milk or water. Flavor with wine 
or brandy. 

193 



Addenda 

iiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiniiiiiiiniiiiiiiiiiiniiii iiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiniiniiiiiiitiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiniiiiiiiiiiiiiiHiiiuuuiitiniiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiitiiii 



J»4 



WEIGHTS AND MEASURES 



Ten eggs equal one pound. 

One quart of flour equals one pound. 

Two eupfuls of butter equal one pound. 

One generous pint of liquid equals one pound. 

Two eupfuls of granulated sugar equal one pound. 

Two heaping eupfuls of powdered sugar equal one pound. 

One pint finely chopped meat, packed solidly, equals one pound. 

Four saltspoonfuls equal one teaspoonful. 

Three teaspoonfuls equal one tablespoonful. 

Sixteen tablespoonfuls equal one cupful. 

Four tablespoonfuls salt equal one ounce. 

One and one-half tablespoonfuls granulated sugar equal one ounce. 

Two tablespoonfuls of flour equal one ounce. 

A piece of butter the size of an egg equals about one and one-half 
ounces. 

One pint of loaf sugar equals ten ounces. 

One pint of brown sugar equals twelve ounces. 

One pint of granulated sugar equals sixteen ounces. 

One pint of wheat flour equals nine ounces. 

One pint of corn meal equals eleven ounces. 

Use two teaspoonfuls of soda to one pint of sour milk. 

Use one teaspoonful of soda to one cupful of molasses. 

One-half teaspoonful cream of tartar with one teaspoonful baking 
soda equals two teaspoonfuls baking powder. 



195 



TIME REQUIRED 

For Cooking the Following Meats and Vegetables. 

Beef, sirloin, rare, per pound, eight to ten minutes. 

Beef, sirloin, well done, per pound, twelve to fifteen minutes. 

Chickens, three or four pounds weight, one to one and one-half 

hours. ^ , 

Duck, tame, from forty to sixty minutes. 

Lamb, well done, per pound, fifteen minutes. 

Pork, well done, per pound, thirty minutes. 

Turkey, ten pounds, three hours. 

Veal, well done, per pound, twenty minutes. 

Potatoes, boiled, thirty minutes. 

Potatoes, baked, forty-five minutes. 

Sweet potatoes, boiled, forty-five minutes. 

Sweet potatoes, baked, one hour. 

Squash, boiled, twenty-five minutes. 

Squash, baked, forty-five minutes. 

Green peas, boiled, twenty to forty minutes. 

String beans, one to two hours. 

Green com, from twenty to thirty minutes. 

Asparagus, fifteen to thirty minutes. 

Spinach, one to two hours. 

Tomatoes, one hour. 

Cabbage, forty-five minutes to two hours. 

Cauliflower, one to two hours. 

Dandelions, two to three hours. 

Beet greens, one hour. 

Onions, one to two hours. 

Beets, one to five hours. 

Turnips, forty-five minutes to one hour. 

Parsnips, from one-half to one hour. 

196 



HOUSEHOLD HINTS 

When peeling onions, if you will hold the onions under the run- 
ning cold water, there will be no discomfort experienced. 

Put a thimble over the end of rods and you can easily run it 
through your curtains, or an old glove finger will answer the purpose 
if thimble is too large. 

To mark a hem in linen, remove thread from the machine and 
run the goods through the hemmer as though stitching; you will find 
a perfect hem turned down. 

For removing odor of onions from hands, use celery or powdered 
celery seed. 

A handful of salt rubbed around sink will help remove all grease 
and keep it sweet and clean. 

A tiny pinch of soda will sweeten cream slightly soured. 

To remove bread or cake from pans, apply wet cloth to bottom of 
pan. 

Tack a piece of asbestos on end of ironing board for iron stand. 

Burn a piece of camphor gum to rid house of mosquitoes. 

To break glass evenly, tie a string around the glass, saturated with 
kerosene, then fill with cold water as high as the string; set fire to 
the string, and glass will snap at point of string. 

If a silver spoon is placed in a jelly glass the boiling jelly can be 
poured in without the least danger of breaking the glass. 

To cream butter and sugar easily when butter is hard, warm the 
sugar slightly. 

For angel, sunshine and all sponge cakes, add the cream of tartar 
to the eggs when half beaten, and if soda is called for, add it to the 
flour. 

Lime water and linseed oil is an excellent application for burns. 

To caramelize sugar : Put in a smooth granite saucepan or omelet 
pan, place over hot part of stove and stir constantly until melted and 
of the color of maple syrup. Care must be taken to prevent sugar 
from adhering to sides of pan or spoon. 

To renovate food chopper and sharpen its knives, grind a piece 
of sand soap through it. 

Before using new tinware, if you will rub it well with lard and 
heat it thoroughly in oven, it will not rust. 

To remove paint from window pains, rub with baking soda. 

To remove match scratches from painted woodwork, rub with 
slice of lemon, then with whiting, and wash with soap and water. 

In making pancakes, two tablespoons of snow stirred in quickly 
is equal to one egg. 

Two apples placed in your cake box will keep the cake moist. 

If in cooking you have accidentally put too much salt in anything, 
a small amount of brown sugar will counteract it. 

197 




J087/,Si€UeSt/ 



B. L. CHANDLER & CO. 
Hairdressers and Wigmakers 



Importers and Manufacturers of Hair Goods 

First Class Work Hairdressing 

Scalp Treatment Facial Massage 

Tel. Wentworth 3663 

(Directly Under " 



Shampooing 
Manicuring 

6314 Harvard Ave. 

Station) 



Don't ySforry.aAoui tA^ navoror Color. 
t7u8t ie^re a«rving Gravies, Stews. Soups. Etc 
aeid a daaho^ 

Xitchen bouquet 

Viu wtll^ylkti i^al it imparts a wonderfully 
TJchhrown^lor and (/e/ieious^^/Sxvor/znd 

TJQ ot/ter wajf. 

The Palisade Manuracturing Gx , 



vmn K» mil %tM\A 



ENGLEWOOD STATE BANK 

63rd Street and Yale Avenue 

OUR AIM 

To conduct a bank of the highest character in every respect. 

To take the greatest care in the protection of our depositors. 

To make the fullest possible response to all of the banking require- 
ments of our customers. 

To extend never-failing welcome and courtesy to all — men, women and 
children — who for any purpose enter our bank. 

Our banking office is a clean, comfortable and pleasant place to enter 
and transact business. 

We have thousands of satisfied customers and we invite other thou- 
sands. 



OFFICERS 

FRANK H. TINSLEY, President BRYAN G. TIGHE, Vice-President 
E. W. STAN&BURY, Cashier E. E. HART, Assistant Cashier 

W. M. GOLDSBERRY, Assistant Cashier 



For GOOD Things to 

EAT 

Trade at the 

Metropolitan Grocery Co. 

63rd and Harvard Ave. 
Phone: Normal 6153 

THE TVHITE FRONT 

Grocery and Market 

Now Located Permanently 
Corner 63rd and Stewart Avenue 

Where you will always find 
THE BEST IN GROCERIES AND MEATS 

Telephone: Went worth 582 

Our Place of Business 

Our Exclusive Styles 

Our Merchandising Methods 

The service rendered by intelligent 
sales people, are the topic of conver- 
sation where women are gathered 
together. 

Come and see our 

Ready to Wear 

Dresses, Suits and Coats 

Gordon-Torrance Company 

Third Floor, Tower Building 
Michigan Ave. and Madison Street 



USE 



MORTON'S Salt 



HORTON'S^ 

Salt! 

*IP0UP> ' 



IT POURS 



You will appreciate the 
additional savor Morton's 
Salt will add to your 
favorite recipe. 

Convenient 

Sanitai'y 

Economical 

Morton Salt Company 

Chicago 




Washers thai Wosj 




:uum EiectricWashers 
Gas Heated 

iORtON IRONERSfAfan^w) 
'1326 Stevens Bd^ 17NStateSt. 



The "Easy" is a Double- 
Vacuum Gas Heated 
Electric Washer and is 
rightly named, for it is 

Easy to understand. 
Easy to operate. 
Easy to clean. 
Easy to move about. 
Easy on the clothes. 
You may "wash while 
you cook" 



Phones: Central 2690. 2692 

13th Floor, Stevens* Building 




Society Stationery 
of Every 
Description 






Phone 
Franklin 

562 



/ 



0? 



/4> 



Year Books 
Annual Reports 
Booklets 

and 

Announcements 



SERVICE and QUALITY 
Our Specialty 

niiiiiiniiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiriiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiii iiiiiii 11 iiiiiiiiiiiiiiiii iiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiii iiiiiiiniiiiiiiiiiirii 

172-174 NORTH La SALLE STREET 

CHICAGO 




PHONE CALUMET 3565 

ADAMS' UUNDRY 

2331-2333 Indiana Ave. 

Catering to the Better 

Trade 

Hand Work Domestic Finish 

CHICAGO 




I 



1 



|i iasics jusi as^od 
when made in one as 
tkeoiken liisihe 
g ualiiy ikat coiinis. 

CHASE & SANBORN'S 
SEAL BRAND COFFEE 

appeals io everyone 




IN 
1,2 AND 3 POUND CAN^ 
NEVER SOLD IN BULK. 
WHOLE, STEEL CUT, 
PERCOLATOR GRIND, 
PULVERIZED 




Hyde Park Art Shop 

OVE HOFFMANN 

Oil Paintings Water Colors Color-Etchings 
Mezzo-Tints [Hand-Carved Frames 



Tel. Hyde Park 1217 5232 Harper Ave- 



MORGAN GROCERY CO. 

1528 E. 53rd St. 
1408 E. 47th St. 



Fancy Baskets of Fruit a Specialty 
Sea Food in Season 

Live Lobsters 

Crab Meat 

Blue Points 



P&MlUfR 

fit-inters >Cli/cG^» 






LIBRARY OF CONGRESS 





014 489 618 A 



-■^-:.^.;i, 



■O.v-j f."a;x :c,-;'^-'^' 



^,:rrTr^"^ 



•■:^?f^. 



■ '{"T ■'^"l^._ 









^V*..i!v^j- 









■_t.;t: 






i-^L './, 



UNIVERSITY OF 

ILLINOIS LIBRARY 

AT URBANA CHAMPAIGN 

OAK STREET 

LIBRARY FACILITY 



Corner Book Shop 

102 Fourth Ave. 
New York 3, N. Y. 



STEVENSON MEMORIAL 

COOK BOOK 



Q 



P 



u 



PUBLISHED BY 
Sarah Hackett Stevenson Memorial Lodging House Association 

ENDORSED BY THE CHICAGO ASSOCIATION COMMERCE 
SUBSCRIPTIONS INVESTIGATING COMMITTEE 

2412 Prairie Avenue 
CHICAGO 



INDEX 



Page 
APPETIZERS 7 

BEVERAGES 159 

BREAD 107 

CAKES ' 117 

CANDIES 181 

CHEESE DISHES 177 

COOKIES 131 

DESSERTS 83 

EGG DISHES 171 

FILLINGS AND ICINGS 127 

FISH 23 

HOUSEHOLD HINTS 193 

MEATS AND FOWL 35 

PICKLES 141 

PIES 77 

PRESERVES 149 

FROZEN DISHES 99 

PUDDINGS 89 

SALADS 67 

SANDWICHES 165 

SAUCES 51 

SHELL FISH 29 

SOUPS 15 

TIME REQUIRED 192 

VEGETABLES 55 

WEIGHTS AND MEASURES 191 



Copyright, 1919 

by 

Sarah Hackett Stevenson Memorial Lodging House Association 






DEDICATED 

— TO— 

Sarah Hackett Stevenson 
Whose life was devoted to Service for Humanity. 



Compiled by 

Mrs. William D. Hurlbut 

Assisted by 

THE EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE 

Mrs. Herbert D. Sheldon 
Mrs. Carl S. Junge 

Mrs. A. Donald Campbell 
Mrs. Sarah A. Graham 
Mrs. A. C. Allen 

Mrs. George K. Spoor 
Mrs. Wm. S. Tasker 

Mrs. Wm. Irving Clock 

Mrs. Edward D. Gotchy 



TRUSTEES 

Hon. Wm. B. McKinley, M. C. 

Hon. Henry Horner 

Judge of Probate Court (Ex-officio) 

Mrs. W. H. Winslow 

President Chicago Woman's Club (Ex-officio) 

Mrs. George Watkins 

Mrs. George S. Blakeslee 

Mrs. Thomas D. McMicken 

Mrs. Edward L. Phelps 

Mrs. Hermann Vander Ploeg 

Mrs. A. C. Allen 

Mrs. Herbert D. Sheldon 



FOREWORD 



During the year 1893 on the streets of Chicago were hundreds of 
women who had been thrown out of employment. The genuine help- 
lessness and hopelessness of these women appealed strongly to the gen- 
erous heart of a wonderful woman, Dr. Sarah Hackett Stevenson, one 
time president of the Chicago Woman's Club. She went before this club 
and stated that there was no place in this great city where a woman with- 
out funds could find shelter — a woman who would work if given an 
opportunity. She demanded in the name of humanity that this, her 
club, do something at once to relieve the situation. 

Her plea had its effect, and money was subscribed for beginning 
work. Other clubs responded to the call for help and contributed both 
furnishings and funds. And what was called the Woman 's Model Lodg- 
ing House was opened to the public. 

No questions were asked of those who came for shelter — the past 
was not the thing to be dealt with — only the present and future. A 
charge of 15 cents a night was made, and if they were without money 
work was given them and they were paid for it — they, in turn, paying 
for their lodging. It was the principle of the organization that the 
actual handling of this money helped to preserve self-respect and that 
they might not feel themselves objects of charity. This principle has 
held through the years and no woman or child is turned from the door 
as long as there is a place to rest. 

Hon. William B. McKinley of Champaign, 111., gave as a memorial 
to Dr. Stevenson the present home at 2412 Prairie avenue, which will 
accommodate sixty women and about fifty children. The organization 
has become one of the strongest in the city — a delegated body of eighty- 
two members who represent women's organizations of Cook County. For 
the last few years the work has grown and broadened, until almost every 
trouble and sorrow that can come to women and children is brought to 
this door. 

The woman who is on the downward path of years, when it is so 
hard to find employment, her little money gone, often weakened both 
mentally and physically from lack of nourishment and worry — she might 
be any one's mother — if not able to work for her lodging, is supplied 



Foreword 

iiiiifiiiiitiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiniiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiittiiiiiiiiiiiitiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiitiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiijiiitiiiiiiiiiiiiiiitiiiiiiiiiiiiiij 

from the loan fund. Often she can return the small amount and 
she does not feel that she has received charity, but that the hand of a 
friend has grasped hers, and her faith in humanity is restored. The 
young girl who is alone and without money is safe from the cheap 
rooming houses of the city. The mother with her little family, who 
has been left, by desertion or death, without the father's protection 
comes to this home and remains until she can gather up the thread 
of existence once more. Often she is saved from placing her chil- 
dren in institutions or giving them for adoption. An average of 105 
women and children are cared for in the Lodging House each day. 

As time brought the need of better facilities for the care of the chil- 
dren, the generous friend of the Institution, Wm. B. McKinley, gave the 
building at 2408 Prairie avenue for Nursery purposes. Here the chil- 
dren are cared for during the day, while the mother is seeking employ- 
ment, or otherwise adjusting her affairs. 

A lim ited number of neighborhood children are also cared for. A 
trained nurse and kindergartner are employed. Twenty-four hour feed- 
ings for bottle babies are furnished so that the little ones diet may not be 
disturbed. In this department 60 children are given daily care. The 
mother has charge of her family at night. Every effort is made by 
this organization to keep the mother and her children together. We 
believe that separation should be only after every other method has failed. 

A visit to the Stevenson Memorial will interest you and you are most 

welcome at all times. 

Mrs. Herbert D. Sheldon, 

President. 



APPETIZERS 



(( 



Nor love thy life, nor Jiate, but while thou livest, live well." 



CHEESE TOAST CANAPE Mrs. C. A. Carscadin 

Toast small squares or rounds of bread on one side ; on the other 
side grate cheese and set in oven until cheese is melted ; add paprika. 

CHEESE CANAPES Mrs. E. S. Smith 

Cut bread in quarter-inch slices. Spread lightly with French 
mustard. Sprinkle with grated cheese and finely chopped olives. 
Brown slightly in oven. 

SARDINE AND EGG CANAPE Mrs. C. A. Carscadin 

Toast small pieces of bread; cover with a paste made of sardines 
and a little lemon juice, and top with the yolks of hard boiled egg put 
through the ricer. 

SARDINE CANAPE Mrs. J. A. Kaerwer 

Two cans small sardines ; one teaspoonful catsup : one teaspoonful 
lemon juice ; a dash of tabasco sauce. Place slice of bread on leaf of 
lettuce then lay two small sardines across with chopped eggs, and last 
add catsup, lemon juice and tabasco sauce. 

SARDINE CANAPE Mrs. J. A. Kaerwer 

Two cans of sardines boned; two tablespoonfuls chopped pickled 
beets ; mix thoroughly and spread on slices of bread ; sprinkle chopped 
eggs over same and serve. 

SARDINE CANAPE Mrs. A. D. Campbell 

Mash sardines with silver fork, after removing tails and loose 
skin. Cover with juice of one-half lemon. Spread on thin slices of 
bread, cut either round or oblong. Cover with grated cheese and 
toast until cheese melts. Serve hot. 

SALMON AND TOMATO CANAPE Mrs. C. A. Carscadin 

On a small piece of toast put a paste of salmon, and on this a 
slice of ripe tomato with mayonnaise. 



Appetizers 

fniiiititiiiiiiiiiiitiiifiiiiifiiiiiiiiiitiiiiiiiiiiiiitiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiuiitiiiiiiirrffitrriiiiiiitiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiitiiiiiiiitiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiitiiiiiiiiiiiniiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiitiifiiiiiiiiftiin 

LOBSTER CANAPE Mrs. Louis Geyler 

Chop one-half cup of lobster meat fine and mix thoroughly with 
the white of two hard boiled eggs which has been pressed through a 
ricer. Season with salt, pepper, one teaspoonful mustard and moisten 
with thick mayonnaise. Saute circular pieces of bread until brown, 
then spread with the mixture. Sprinkle over the top a thin layer of 
hard boiled yolks and lobster pressed through the ricer. 

CANAPES Mrs. Louis Geyler 

Dip edges of toast in egg, then in finely minced parsley or chervil ; 
spread with anchovy butter and garnish with cold boiled eggs, olives 
and capers; or 

On the same foundation use tartar sauce, boned anchovies curled 
around edge and garnish with a stuffed olive or gherkin fan ; a gherkin 
fan is made by cutting it in thin slices, not quite through, and putting 
the ends together ; or 

Cover toast with tomato slices, curl anchovy in center and season 
with lemon, onion juice and paprika ; or 

Garnish with powdered egg yolk and diced whites ; or 

Spread toast with anchovy butter, cover with mayonnaise mixed 
with chili sauce. 

MUSHROOM CANAPE (Hot) Miss Agnes Sieber 

Cook fresh mushrooms in butter, place on rounds of toast, spread 
with chervil or parsley butter; pipe a mound of beaten egg white, 
seasoned with salt and pepper, on each mushroom and place in hot oven 
until maringue is brown. 

PRUNE AND BACON CANAPE (Hot) Miss Agnes Sieber 

Remove stones from large prunes and olives; stuff olives with 
capers and bits of anchovy; put them in the prunes, wrap each prune 
with bacon and tie with a thread. Place in hot oven until bacon is 
crisp, remove thread and place on disks of toast spread with Parmesan 
butter. 

TONGUE CANAPE Mrs. F. A. Sieber 

Spread toast with mustard cream, garnish with tiny strips of 
tongue, put a lozenge of white meat of chicken in center, on this put 
a slice of truffle, both marinated in French dressing. 

CANAPE A LA VANDERBILT Mrs. Paul Klein-exel. 

Slice of tomatoes on lettuce ; combination of crabmeat, celery and 
pearl onions. Serve with oil mayonnaise. 

TUNNYFISH CANAPE Mrs. F. A. Sieber 

Spread toast with horseradish butter, lay on strips of tunnyfish 
and garnish with slices of gherkin. 

8 



Appetizers 

iiftiiiiiiiiiiiiiiniiiiiiiiiiiitiiiiiiiitiniiiuiuiiiiiniiittiiiitiiiiiiiiiiiiuiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiitiuiiiiiiiiiiitiiiiiiMiiuiuitiiifiiuiiiiiiuiiiiitiHiiiiiiiiiiitiiiiiiiiiiiiiiuiiiiiiiiittttiiiHiiiititi 

TOMATO CANAPE Elizabeth Jennings 

Lightly toast circles of bread, cut out with biscuit cutter, one- 
half inch thick. Cover each circle with a slice of tomato. Sprinkle 
with salt and pepper. Cover tomato with layer of caviar, garnishing 
edge with finely cut white of hard boiled egg. Instead of caviar, the 
tiny white onions (bottled) or yolk of egg finely chopped may be sub- 
stituted. Serve on plate with fancy paper doily. 

ANCHOVY PASTE CANAPE Mrs. Paul Klein-exel. 

Slice of toast, cut shape of tomato; spread with anchovy paste; 
topped with tomato slice, and yellow American cheese, browned and 
melted in oven. Toast only one side of bread. 

SARDINOLA CANAPE Mrs. Frederick T. Hoyt 

Cut rounds of fresh bread and toast lightly in oven. Cover with 
Sardinola paste, then sprinkle grated cheese over top, then brown 
slightly and serve while hot. 

CHICKEN, HAM OR TONGUE CANAPES Mrs. Louis Geyler 

Spread toast with mustard butter, cover with minced chicken and 
garnish with olives, pickles, capers and pearl onions; or 

Border edge of toast with minced tongue or ham, fill center with 
chicken mixed with mayonnaise and garnish with minced truffles. 

ANCHOVIES AND TOMATOES 

Cover anchovies with lemon juice and paprika ; in an hour or two 
place them on tomato slices sprinkled with pulverized egg yolk and 
garnish with the egg white cut in strips. 

ARTICHOKE FONDS OR CELERY CUPS 

Parboil six artichokes, or celery hearts cut in cups, in salted 
acidulated water, cool and marinate in French dressing ; fill cups with 
diced or shredded mixed vegetables and top with mayonnaise; or 

Coat the cups with aspic and fill with caviar. 

Canned artichokes which are already cooked may be used. 

CUCUMBER CROWNS 

Cut peeled cucumbers into inch lengths, scoop out centers, leaving 
a little at the bottom, fill with lobster or shrimp cream and garnish 
edge with anchovies, mixed olives, capers or pimentoes; or 

Fill with caviar mixed with lemon juice and garnish with pearl 
onions and minced cress. 

SHRIMPS AND EGGS 

Cut hard boiled eggs in halves, remove yolks and fill with shredded 
shrimps mixed with mayonnaise; garnish with powdered yolks and 
serve on lettuce leaves. 

9 



Appetizers 

■■■■■■■■■■■iiiiiiiiiitiiaiiiiiiiitiiiitiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiitiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiitiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiitaiiiiiiiiiitaia 

EASTER APPETIZER Mrs. A. J. Atwater 

Hard boil as many eggs as you have services; peel and cut the 
whites to represent baskets, carefully scoop out the yolks and fill the 
baskets with caviar. Toast rounds of bread, cover with the yolks 
which have been put through ricer, stand a basket in the center of 
each and serve with a thin slice of lemon. 

SWEETBREAD CANAPE Mrs. Louis Geyler 

Spread brown bread toast with creamed butter mixed with pate 
de foie gras; cover with cooked sweetbreads mixed with cucumber, 
pepper, gras and mayonnaise. Garnish with sweet red peppers. 

CANAPE Mrs. W. D. Hurlbut 

Spread rounds of toast with liver sausage; garnish with yolks of 
hard boiled egg put through ricer; in the center place a spoonful of 
minced stuffed olives. 

SARDINE CANAPE Mrs. J. G. Sherer 

Spread rounds of toast with mayonnaise; cover with a slice of 
tomato; mince sardines with yolk of a hard boiled egg and finely 
chopped stuffed olives; cover the tomato with this mixture and place 
a spoonful of mayonnaise on top. 

CRAB FLAKE CANAPE Mrs. J. G. Sherer 

Rounds of bread toasted on one side; spread untoasted side with 
a mixture of butter and Parmesan cheese. To a small quantity of 
cream sauce, add one cup crab flakes and heat. Put mounds of crab 
flakes on the buttered toast and put under blaze long enough to brown 
slightly. 

SAUSAGE AND OLIVE CANAPE Mrs. P. D. Swigart 

Toast rounds of bread on one side ; spread the untoasted side with 
mayonnaise, and on this lay a slice of summer sausage as thin as it can 
be cut; top with minced olive and pimento in mayonnaise. 

OLIVE AND NUT CANAPE Mrs. H. Clay Calhoun 

To one cup minced stuffed olives add one-half cup minced nut 
meats and one-half cup oil mayonnaise; mix well and spread on 
toasted bread cut in any shape you want. Garnish with a little mound 
of mayonnaise sprinkled with paprika. 

FRUIT COCKTAIL Mrs. W. D. Hurlbut 

Shred some pineapple; add grape fruit pulp and seeded white 
grapes; cover with hot sugar and water syrup and let stand until 
cold; flavor with sherry and serve in cocktail glasses that have been 
chilled by filling with ice an hour before time to serve. 

10 



Appetizers 
«iiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiitiiiiiiiiiiiifiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiititiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiitiitiiiiiiiiiiiiiitiiiiiiiiiiiitiiiiftiiiiifiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiitniti 

FRUIT COCKTAIL Mrs. A. Donald Campbell 

Scoop out rounds of watermelon and cantaloupe, thoroughly 
chilled; put in glasses, sprinkle with pulverized sugar and pour over 
each two tablespoonfuls ice cold ginger ale. Garnish with cherry. 

STRAWBERRY COCKTAIL Mrs. H. W. Keil 

Select large ripe berries, and if very sandy, wash them. Remove 
hulls and cut them in halves lengthwise; fill glasses with berries and 
pour over them a dressing made by mixing one cup of water and two 
tablespoonfuls sugar, let boil three minutes; cool and add one-half 
cup claret ; let this dressing be ice cold when poured over the berries. 
Serve. 

CHERRY COCKTAIL Mrs. J. G. Sherer 

Select the big California cherries; take out the stones and insert 
in their places walnut, almond or hazel nut meats. Half fill the glasses 
with a cold syrup made of fruit juice and a little sugar. 

ORANGE COCKTAIL Mrs. H. F. Vehmeyer 

Remove the skin from the orange sections, place in a chilled cock- 
tail glass and pour over a syrup made of sweetened orange juice and 
a little sherry. Decorate with sugar coated mint sprays. 

TOMATO COCKTAIL Mrs. Magda West 

Select uniform sized tomatoes ; cut in halves lengthwise. In each 
glass place a small, crisp leaf of head lettuce ; put one-half of a tomato 
on each and half fill the glass with cocktail sauce. 

SHRIMP COCKTAIL Mrs. A. M. Cameron 

Boil green shrimp until tender, about twenty-five minutes. Peel 
and break in halves, if large ; dice celery and olives with the shrimp, 
mix well and cover with a cocktail sauce. 

SARDINE COCKTAIL Mrs. W. D. Hurlbut 

Drain sardines from oil in box ; remove skin, tail and bones ; break 
into small pieces ; mince celery and mix with it ; put in cocktail glass 
and cover with sauce made of one-half cup catsup, juice of one lemon ; 
tablespoonful horseradish and a little salt. 

CRABMEAT COCKTAIL Mrs. C. A. Carscadin 

Two tablespoonfuls crabmeat to each person. To one cup tomato 
catsup add juice of one lemon, two tablespoonfuls grated horseradish 
thinned with vinegar; a few drops of tabasco sauce and just before 
serving, a tablespoonful cracked ice. 

11 



Appetizers 

•ifiiiiiiifiiiiiiiiitiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiitfiiiiiiiHiitttiiiiiiiiiitiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiittfiifiiiiitiiitiiitiitiiiiftiiiiiiiiiiiiiitiiiiiiiiiftiiifiiiifittiiiiiniiiiiiiifitfiiitiitiiiiiifitiiiiiiiiifiiiiiiiiiiitimi* 

CRAB FLAKE COCKTAIL Mrs. J. G. Sherer 

To one cup of Japanese crab flakes mince one stalk of celery, one 
teaspoonful capers and mix well. Fill green pepper cases with the mix- 
ture and cover with two tablespoonfuls cooktail sauce. 

CLAM COCKTAIL SAUCE 

Three tablespoonfuls of tomato, or mushroom catsup ; three table- 
spoonfuls lemon juice; one tablespoonful horseradish; a few drops 
tabasco ; salt and paprika. Stir well and allow about two tablespoon- 
fuls of the sauce for each cocktail. 

COCKTAIL SAUCE 

Mix well four tablespoonfuls tomato catsup ; one of vinegar ; two 
of lemon juice ; one of grated horseradish ; one of Worcestershire sauce ; 
one teaspoonful salt and a few drops of tabasco. Have very cold 
when poured over cocktails. 

COCKTAIL SAUCE Mrs. W. L. Gregson 

One tablespoonful freshly grated horseradish; one tablespoonful 
vinegar; half a teaspoonful tabasco sauce; two tablespoonfuls lemon 
juice ; one tablespoonful chili sauce ; half a teaspoonful "Worcestershire 
sauce. Mix and let stand on ice until ready to serve. 

COCKTAIL SAUCE 

Two tablespoonfuls each tomato catsup and sherry wine; one 
tablespoonful lemon juice ; a few drops tabasco sauce ; half a teaspoon- 
ful minced chives and a little" salt. Have thoroughly chilled before 
pouring over cocktail. 

COCKTAIL SAUCE 

Rub a bowl with a clove of garlic; two tablespoonfuls tomato 
catsup; one tablespoonful grated horseradish; one tablespoonful 
mushroom catsup ; one teaspoonful lemon juice ; one teaspoonful finely 
chopped chives ; a few drops of tabasco sauce, salt and pepper. 



13 



Appetizers 



IIMIIIIIIIIIIIMIIIIIMIIMIMIItMIMMIMMIIMIHMIIItHlllltllMIIIMMlllMUMMIMIMIMIUMIMIHIIIMMMIIMMMMIIIIIHMIIIIMMMIMMUMtMMinilllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllimilllllll 



13 



Appetizers 



iiiiMiiHiiiiiiMiiniiiiiiiiiiiiiinniiitiiniiinMiniiinMniMiiiiMiiiMuwuMiiiiMiiMiiiiiiniMiMiiMiiMiMiMiMMiMuniiMiiiiMnuiiniiMiuiniMMiniMinMiiininiMinininuiiuiuiiiii 



14 



SOUPS 



All human history attests: 

That happiness for man — the hungry sinner — 
Since Eve ate apples — much depends on dinner. 

— Byron. 



CREAM OF ASPARAGUS Mrs. K. T. Cary 

Cook one bunch of asparagus twenty minutes, drain and reserve 
tops ; add two cups of stock and one slice of onion minced ; boil thirty 
minutes. Rub through sieve and thicken with two tablespoonfuls but- 
ter and two tablespoonfuls of flour rubbed together. Add salt, pepper, 
two cups milk and the tips. 

CREAM OF BEAN SOUP Mrs. E. D. Kenfield 

Put one quart of milk to heat. While it is heating, put the cooked 
beans through colander. Blend one tablespoonful butter with one of 
flour; pour over this the hot milk. Season with salt and pepper, stir 
until smooth, and then add the beans. Pea or asparagus soup can be 
made in the same way. 

CREAM OF CABBAGE 

Cut up one small head of cabbage and boil until quite tender. 
Put it through a colander, add one quart of milk, salt and pepper and 
thicken with two tablespoonfuls each of butter and flour rubbed 
together. 

CREAM OF CELERY Mrs. W. D. Hurlbut 

Cut four heads celery into small pieces and boil it in three pints 
of water with one-fourth pound of lean ham minced; simmer gently 
for an hour. Strain through a sieve and return to the pan adding one 
quart of milk, salt and pepper; thicken with two tablespoonfuls of 
butter and two tablespoonfuls of flour rubbed to a paste. Serve with 
whipped cream on top. 

CREAM OF CORN Mrs. A. Donald Campbell 

Put one can of corn on to simmer with one pint of water and one 
small onion sliced; cook thirty minutes. Strain, return to the pan, 
adding one quart of milk, salt and pepper and thicken with two table- 
spoonfuls of flour and butter. Serve hot with a spoonful of whipped 
cream on top. 

15 



Soups 

HiiiitiiitiiitiiiiiiiiiiiiitiiitiiitiitiiiiiiiiiiiiiiititiiiitiittitiiuiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiitiiiiiiiiiiiHiiittiiiiiiiiiiitiiittitiitiiiiiiiiniHtiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiitiiiitiiiiitiiiiiitiniiiiiutiiitm 

CREAM OF LIMA BEANS Mrs. A. J. Atwater 

If dried beans are used, soak them over night; in the morning 
drain and add three pints of cold water; cook until soft and run 
through a sieve. Slice two onions and a carrot and cook in two table- 
spoonfuls of butter; remove vegetables, add two tablespoonfuls flour, 
salt and pepper, stirring until very smooth; add to this one cup of 
milk or cream and put into the strained soup; reheat and add two 
tablespoonfuls more of butter in small pieces. 

CREAM OF MUSHROOM SOUP Mrs. J. H. Harris 

One-half pound of mushrooms, cleaned and chopped fine, add to 
four cups of chicken broth, cook twenty minutes; thicken with two 
tablespoonfuls butter and two of flour blended with one cup of boiling 
water. When the boiling point is reached add one cup of cream and 
the well beaten yolks of two eggs. 

MUSHROOM SOUP Mrs. Harry Freeman 

One-half pound mushrooms, washed and peeled and chopped very 
fine ; cover with one pint of water and boil one-half hour slowly ; one 
quart milk scald in double boiler; season with one tablespoonful but- 
ter, salt and pepper; add mushrooms and let come to a boil. Just 
before serving, add finely chopped parsley. Thicken milk with one 
tablespoonful flour mixed with cold water and put through a 
strainer. 

CREAM OF RICE SOUP Mrs. W. I. Clock 

One cup rice; one large onion; one quart milk; one tablespoonful 
butter. Boil rice in salted water until tender, press through sieve, and 
add milk slowly, stirring constantly until all is well mixed, lastly add 
butter and season to taste. 

CREAM OF SPINACH 

Wash and cook enough spinach to make a pint; chop it fine and 
put in a pan with two tablespoonfuls of butter, one teaspoonful salt 
and a few gratings of nutmeg ; cook and stir it about ten minutes ; add 
three pints of soup stock, let it boil up and put it through a strainer. 
Set it on the fire again and when at the boiling point remove and add 
one tablespoonful of butter and one teaspoonful of sugar. Thicken 
with flour mixed with milk or water. 

CREAM OF TOMATO 

Cook one quart of tomatoes with one slice onion, two teaspoonfuls 
sugar and one-fourth teaspoonful soda about fifteen minutes; rub 
through a sieve and set to one side. Scald one quart of milk and 
thicken with flour diluted with cold water; be careful that the mix- 
ture is free from lumps; cook from fifteen to twenty minutes; when 
ready to serve combine the mixtures, add bits of butter, salt and pepper 
and a spoonful of whipped cream on top. 

16 



Soups 

tllUllltllllllllllllllllltlllllllltllllllllllllllllllllllllllllflttlllllltlltlllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllltllllllllllltllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllitMIIIIIIIIIIIIItllllllllltlllllllllllMlIIIIIIB 

CHOWDER Mrs. C. A. Carseadin 

One can of corn; one cupful of diced potatoes; one and one-half 
inch cube of fat salt pork ; one tablespoonful onion juice ; four cupfuls 
of scalded milk; two tablespoonfuls of butter; a teaspoonful of salt 
and a teaspoonful of pepper. Cut pork into small bits and fry until 
nicely browned; add onion juice and milk and potatoes, which have 
been boiled in salted water until tender; corn, salt and pepper. Let 
all just come to the boiling point. Put a few rolled crackers in each 
plate and pour in chowder. Tomatoes may be added if liked. 

CLAM SOUP 

Chop fine 25 clams. Put over the fire the liquor that was drained 
from them and a cup of water; add the chopped clams and boil half 
an hour; season to taste with salt, pepper and butter; boil up again 
and add one quart of milk, boiling hot, and two crackers which have 
been rolled fine. Serve. 

MOCK CHICKEN SOUP L. E. Kennedy 

Two tablespoonfuls flour; one and one-half pints beef stock; two 
tablespoonfuls cream ; one egg ; butter size of an egg. Put butter and 
flour in a saucepan, stir until smooth ; add stock little by little ; just 
before taking from the fire add the cream and egg well beaten to- 
gether. Salt and pepper to taste. 

COURT BOUILLON Mrs. Robert Woods 

Take six nice slices of red fish, roll them in flour, season with salt 
and fry in hot lard, but not entirely done, simply brown on both sides, 
and set aside. For the sauce, fry in hot lard a large onion chopped 
fine and a spoonful of flour. When brown, stir in a wineglass of 
claret, large spoonfuls of garlic and parsley chopped fine, three bay 
leaves, a spray of thyme, a piece of strong red pepper and salt to 
taste. Lastly, add your fried fish and cook slowly for an hour. Serve 
with toast bread. 

TOMATO BOUILLON Clara L. Scott 

Four cups tomato ; four stalks celery ; one small onion ; four cups 
water; sugar, salt and pepper to taste; boil until celery is well done. 
Strain and serve in cups with whipped cream. 

VEGETABLE BOUILLON Mrs. W. L. Gregson 

Two tablespoonfuls of sugar; one carrot; one onion; one pint 
tomatoes; three stalks celery (or salt spoon of celery seed) ; two whole 
cloves; one salt spoon pepper; one bay leaf; blade of mace; one tea- 
spoonful salt; two quarts cold water; white of one egg; small piece 
of butter. Burn sugar in kettle, add onion and brown ; add carrot and 
celery, and then cold water and other ingredients except butter and 
egg. Mix thoroughly, boil, strain through two thicknesses of cheese- 
cloth, add butter and serve. 

17 



Soups 

■iiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiitiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiitiitiitiiiiiiiiiittiittiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiittiiiiiiiitiiiiiiiittiiiiiiiiiiiiiiitiitiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiifiiiiiiiiitiiiiiitiiiiitiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiijiiiitiiiia 

JELLIED TOMATO BOUILLON Mrs. P. J. Lanten 

Put one quart of tomatoes in pan and simmer twenty minutes; 
add one-third package of gelatine and stir until dissolved. Strain 
through a fine sieve, season with salt, pepper and put in ice box to 
harden. Cut in cubes in bouillon cups and serve with thin slices of 
lemon. 

CREOLE GUMBO Mrs. Robert Woods 

Clean a nice young chicken, -cut in pieces and fry in hot lard. 
Add a large sliced onion, a spoonful of flour, two dozen boiled shrimps, 
two dozen oysters and a few pieces of ham. Pry all together and 
when brown add a quart and a half of water, and let boil for an 
hour. Season with chopped parsley, salt and strong pepper. Just 
before removing and while boiling, stir in quickly a teaspoonful of the 
powdered file. Take away and pour in tureen. Serve hot with rice 
cooked dry. 

CREOLE GUMBO No. 2 Mrs. Robert Woods 

Cut an old fat chicken into small pieces, chop small four onions, 
place the onions in five ounces of lard and let cook until well browned. 
Then put in four spoonfuls of flour and let cook five minutes. Put in 
half gallon good rich stock, add a can of tomatoes, can of okra, season 
with salt, pepper and cayenne. Tie a small quantity of thyme, sweet 
bay leaves and parsley in a bit of cloth. Then add twenty-four large 
shrimps, half dozen hard shell crabs and twenty-four oysters. Let the 
whole cook for two hours on slow fire. Serve with rice boiled dry for 
each person. 

BROWN SOUP Mrs. Joseph T. Bowen 

After boiling a soup bone thoroughly, add a can of tomatoes; 
strain and put it on the stove again; brown flour enough to thicken 
it to the consistence of cream; add a lemon or two (sliced very thin 
and boiled a few minutes in water) ; one teaspoonful each of ground 
cloves ; cinnamon and allspice. Just before you wish to serve add the 
hard boiled yolk of an egg for each person; chop the whites and put 
in the tureen. 

SPLIT PEA SOUP Mrs. W. D. Hurlbut 

Wash well a pint of split peas and cover with cold water, adding 
one-third teaspoonful of soda; let them remain in this over night to 
swell. In the morning put them in a kettle with a close fitting top ; 
pour over them three quarts of cold water, adding half a pound of 
lean ham or bacon cut into slices or pieces; also a teaspoonful salt, 
a little pepper and a stalk of celery cut fine. When the soup begins 
to boil, skim the froth from the surface. Cook slowly from three to 
four hours, stirring occasionally until the peas are all dissolved. 
Strain through a colander and leave out meat. It should be quite 
thick. If not rich enough, add a small piece of butter. Serve with 
small squares of toasted bread cut up and added. 

18 



Soups 

■llllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllltllllllltllllllllllllllllllllllllllllfllllllllllllftllllllfllllllllltllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllltlllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllltllllllllltlllitiiu 

POTATO SOUP Anna Moss 

Peel and slice five medium sized potatoes, cook in boiling salted 
water; when soft put through a strainer. Scald one quart of milk 
with one small onion sliced, remove onion and add milk slowly to 
potatoes. Melt three tablespoonfuls butter, add two tablespoonfuls 
of flour, one teaspoonful salt, one-quarter spoonful celery salt and 
dash of white pepper and stir until thoroughly mixed, add to the boil- 
ing soup; cook one minute, strain and serve; sprinkle with chopped 
parsley. 

MEAT JELLY L. E. Kennedy 

Two pounds of lean beef; one-half gallon cold water; six whole 
cloves; one-half box gelatin soaked in one-half cupful of water for 
fifteen minutes; six black pepper corns; one tablespoonful salt; two 
tablespoonfuls sherry; the juice of one lemon. Cut the beef into the 
water, add peppercorns, cloves and salt and let simmer slowly four 
hours. Add the gelatin and strain; to this add lemon juice and pour 
into a mold. When cold it will slice nicely. 

RICE AND TOMATO SOUP 

Boil to a pulp, in a quart of water, twelve ripe tomatoes which 
have been peeled and cut up. Strain, place on stove and add two 
tablespoonfuls butter rubbed into two tablespoonfuls of flour ; add salt, 
pepper and sugar to taste, onion juice and minced parsley. Cook ten 
minutes and stir in one cup of cooked rice. 

ONION SOUP Mrs. E. P. Rowen 

Slice and boil until tender eight medium sized onions; have a 
strong soup stock ready ; add the onions and season to taste. In each 
plate place a piece of toast and grate Parmesan cheese over it, then 
slowly add the soup the heat of which will melt the cheese. Serve. 

OXTAIL SOUP Mrs. H. J. Keil 

One nice meaty oxtail; two medium sized carrots; two onions; 
one small turnip; two-thirds teaspoonful Kitchen Bouquet; one bay 
leaf; four peppercorns; two or three celery leaves; dash of pepper; 
salt to taste. Wash and cover oxtail with water, add carrots cut in 
cubes. Cut onion and turnip fine and put in a muslin bag with bay 
leaf, peppercorns and celery leaves. This will leave only the carrot 
and meat in soup for table. Bring to a boil and simmer for about 
four hours. Add pepper, salt and Kitchen Bouquet and serve. 

PEA PUREE Mrs. H. P. E. Hafer 

Boil one can of peas with a half a pound of salt pork until very 
soft. Strain and squeeze through a colander. Add one pint of soup 
stock and one-half pint of cream. Salt and pepper to taste. Serve 
with whipped cream. 

19 



Soups 

*Hiiiiiitiiiiiiitiiiiiifiiititiittiiiiiitiiiitiititi(iitifiiiitiiiiiittiiatt>)iiiiiiiMttfiiiitiiiffiiiiitiitfitiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiaitiiiiiiiiiiitfiitiiffiiiiitiiitiitiiiiiiiiifiiiiitiiiitiitiitiiiiitittiifitiHmut»> 

DUCHESS SOUP 

One quart of milk ; three slices of onion ; one tablespoonful flour ; 
one tablespoonful butter; three tablespoonfuls grated cheese; two 
egg yolks beaten; one teaspoonful Kitchen Bouquet. Simmer onion 
in butter, but do not brown ; add flour and milk and stir until smooth, 
then add the cheese and Kitchen Bouquet. Just before taking up add 
the yolks of eggs. Whip some cream and put one teaspoonful in each 
cup. 

SATISFACTION SOUP Alice Clock 

One cup navy beans ; four slices bacon ; one No. 2 can of tomatoes ; 
one small onion ; one level tablespoonful salt ; one-fourth tablespoonful 
black pepper. Soak navy beans over night, in morning put beans on 
to boil with a pinch of soda in water. When they come to a boil, pour 
off this water, return to stove, cover with clear water, add onion and 
bacon, let boil until tender. When tender strain through sieve, being 
sure to press all through, as far as possible. Next add the strained 
tomatoes and seasoning and lastly, thin with cream or milk to con- 
sistency desired. 

SCOTCH BROTH Mrs. C. A. Bowman 

Cut mutton into small pieces and let it stew all day. Boil one- 
fourth pint pearl barley in a little water until tender; strain it dry, 
chop fine two large onions and turnips and put with the barley and 
meat into a stew pan. Strain the broth into it, also the water from 
the barley and let it boil one and a half hours and skim. Season 
with salt and pepper. 



20 



Soups 

*it(iiiifttfifiitttiiiiitfiiiifiiiitfiiiMititifitiiiiifitiiiiifiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiitfiiiiifiifiiiiiittiitiiiiiiiiiiiiiiititiiiitiitiiitiiiiittiiititifiiiiiiiiiiitifttitiiiiitiiiiiifiiiititnfmitiiitiiiiiii«iiiiii( 



21 



Soups 

tllllllllflllllllliniltllillllltnillllllllllllllinillllllllllllllltllllllMllIIIIIIIIllllltlllllllllllMMIlIlllIlllllll IllllllMIflltlillllIMIIIItllIIIIIIIIlllllllllllIMltlllll!llltllIlIIIII1IIIIIIIIIIIIIII 



28 



FISH 



"The fish called the flounder, perhaps you may know, 
Has one side for use and another for show; 
One side for the public, a delicate brown, 
And one that is white, which he always keeps down." 

— Holmes. 



FISH DELIGHT Mrs. William Blanchard 

Mix enough uncooked white fish or Halibut to make two cups; 
add half a cup soft bread crumbs; three-fourths cup cream. Press 
through a colander, season with salt, pepper, lemon juice, and a little 
Worcestershire sauce. Fold in carefully beaten whites of the two 
eggs. Turn into buttered molds and steam one hour. Serve hot with 
Hollandaise sauce. 

STEAMED HALIBUT, LOBSTER SAUCE Mrs. W. R. McGhee 

Butter a steamer and place a thick slice of Halibut steak on it; 
put over hot water and cook until done. Remove to hot platter and 
pour over it hot lobster sauce. 

Lobster Sauce : Remove the meat from a fresh lobster, about one 
and one-half pounds; make a rich cream sauce, add the lobster and 
pour over Halibut. 

BAKED HALIBUT 

One thick slice of Halibut; one small onion; one tablespoonful 
butter; one saltspoonful pepper; one teaspoonful Kitchen Bouquet; 
one level teaspoonful salt; one-half cup water. Chop the onion and 
put in bottom of baking pan. Put Halibut on top and dust with salt 
and pepper. Pour over the water to which has been added the Kitchen 
Bouquet, and then add the melted butter. Bake in rather quick oven 
until nicely browned. Garnish with parsley and slices of lemon and 
pour over sauce left in pan. 

FISH SOUFFLE Mrs. W. I. Clock 

One cup baked fish; four eggs; one cup bread crumbs; one heap- 
ing tablespoonful butter. Mix flaked fish and fresh bread or crumbs, 
place in greased baking dish, pour over the beaten eggs and milk; 
the seasoning should be added to the fish and bread crumbs before 
placing in dish. Add the butter in small pieces over the top of the 
dish, before placing in oven. Bake in hot oven thirty minutes. 

23 



Fish 

«iiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiii]iiitiiiitiiiiitiiiiiiiittiitiiiiiiiiiiiiitiiiiiitiiitiiitiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiittiiiiitiiiiittiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiitiiitiiiiiiiiiittiiiifiitiitiiiiiiiititiiiiiiiiiiiitiitiiiiiiiiiti(iiinia 

FISH WITH TOMATO SAUCE Mrs. Robert Woods 

Bake a well selected fish in oven after seasoning with pepper and 
salt. When done serve with sauce made as follows: 

Pour a quantity of sweet oil in a saucepan. When hot, add two 
sliced onions and when they are cooked, add flour and let onions 
brown in same. Strain a can of tomatoes and add thereto a small 
glass of good wine, and a box of mushrooms chopped fine. Let sauce 
cook, after adding a boquet of thyme, sweet bay, cloves, green onions 
and garlic. Use red pepper only ; and pour over baked fish and serve. 

CODFISH BALLS Mrs. C. A. Jennings 

One and one-half cupfuls of raw codfish picked up; three cup- 
fuls of raw potatoes, diced; one egg; butter size of a walnut; boil 
potatoes and fish together until potatoes are soft. Mash, and add 
pepper and a dash of salt, butter and unbeaten egg and beat until 
light and thoroughly mixed. Shape roughly in a tablespoon and fry 
in smoking fat. 

COD FISH BALLS Belle Shaw 

Half pint measure of raw potatoes, cut in small pieces; one-half 
pint cod, picked to small pieces. Boil together until potatoes are 
tender; pour off water and mash very fine; add one egg, one table- 
spoonful cream and dash pepper. Form on a spoon and fry in hot lard. 
Lay on brown paper to absorb grease. Serve with cream sauce if 
desired. 

Sauce : One tablespoonful butter ; one tablespoonful flour ; cook 
but do not brown. Add to this a pint boiling milk, a pinch salt, and a 
few pieces of cod to flavor. 

CODFISH PUFF Mrs. Grant Beebe 

Two cups shredded codfish ; one cup milk ; one tablespoonful flour 
for thickening; three eggs. Put milk on stove to warm, then add 
thickening, then codfish that has been soaked and drained, then the 
beaten yolks. Lastly fold in the whites beaten. 

BROILED FINNAN HADDIE Mrs. W. D. Hurlbut 

Wash fish well; lay in dripping pan, cover with fresh water and 
allow to stand an hour. Drain, place on fish plank, brush with melted 
butter and put under blaze, not too close, and broil for twenty minutes, 
or until a nice brown. Take out plank, surround the edge with mashed 
potatoes, decorate with hard boiled eggs and sprigs of parsley. 

FRIED SHAD ROE Mrs. W. R. McGhee 

Boil shad roe for fifteen minutes in acidulated salted water; re- 
move, cover with cold water and let stand for a few minutes; dry 
thoroughly and roll in cracker crumbs, egg and again in crumbs and 
fry. Garnish with lemon slices. 

24 



Fish 

■llIllllllllIIIIItllllllllllllflilllltllllllllllllfllllillllllllllllltllllllllllllllltllltltlllllfllllllllllllllllllllllltlllllllllllllllllflllllltltflllllltllltflltllllllMllllIIIIIIItllltllllltllllllltllllllllllliii 

STUFFING FOR FISH Mrs. Max Mauermann 

One cup cracker crumbs; one saltspoon salt; one saltspoon pep- 
per; one saltspoon chopped onions; one saltspoon parsley; one tea- 
spoonful capers ; one teaspoonful chopped pickles ; small piece of butter. 

SHAD ROE, BAKED— CASSEROLE Mrs. Louis Geyler 

Boil roe in salted water (acidulated) five minutes, drain, and cover 
with cold water five minutes ; drain and wipe dry.* Brush with melted 
butter, dust with salt and pepper and paprika. Put in casserole, pour 
on one-half cup stock and one-fourth cup best sherry or water and 
bake twenty minutes. Add to sauce two or three yolks mixed with 
one cup cream and strain over roe. Or pour over thin tomato sauce. 

FROGS LEGS A LA POULETTE Mrs. W. D. Hurlbut 

Trim and clean the frogs legs; boil three minutes. Cover with a 
sauce made as follows: Three tablespoonfuls butter and three of 
flour rubbed together; add one-half cup of cream and one cup of 
chicken stock ; season with salt and pepper and just before serving 
add the yolks of two eggs, well beaten, and one-half tablespoonful 
lemon juice. Very nice served in a chafing dish. 

FROGS LEGS, TARTARE SAUCE 

Trim and wipe the desired number of frogs legs; sprinkle with 
salt and pepper, dip in fine cracker crumbs, beaten egg and again in 
crumbs. Fry three minutes in deep hot fat. Drain and serve at once 
with tartare sauce. 

SALMON EN CASSEROLE Mrs. George D. Milligan 

One pint milk ; three tablespoonfuls flour ; stir until smooth ; cook 
and remove from fire ; add one-half cup butter. When cool add two 
well beaten eggs, pepper and salt and bake in casserole, putting a 
layer of sauce, then salmon and finish with bread crumbs on top. 
Bake about thirty minutes. 

MOULDED SALMON Mrs. C. A. Robinson 

One can of salmon; three eggs; one-half pint milk; chopped 
parsley, pepper and salt and a little Worcestershire sauce. Chop the 
salmon very fine, first picking away all skin and bone ; beat the eggs, 
add the seasoning, mix thoroughly and steam two hours in a mould. 

SALMON CROQUETTES Mrs. George Longwell 

One pound of salmon; one cup cream; two tablespoonfuls butter; 
one tablespoonful flour; three eggs, seasoning. Chop the salmon fine, 
make a cream sauce of the butter, flour and cream; add the salmon 
and seasoning ; boil one minute ; stir in one well beaten egg and remove 
from fire. When cold, make into croquettes; dip in cracker crumbs, 
then in beaten eggs, again in cracker crumbs and fry in deep fat. 

25 



Fish 

■IIlIlIllllIIlllIIIIIIlIIIIllllllIlllIlllIlllllllllIlllfllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllltMlllllllllllllIIlllllIIIIIIIIIIIIIlllfllllllllllllltltlllllllMlIIIIllIIIIMIllIIIIIIIITllfllllfllllllllllllllH 

COLD SALMON LOAF Mrs. R. E. P. Kline 

One pound can of salmon; one-half tablespoonful each of sugar 
and flour ; one tablespoonful melted butter ; one teaspoonful salt ; one- 
half teaspoonful mustard ; dash of cayenne ; yolks of two eggs, beaten ; 
three-fourths cup milk or cream ; one-fourth cup vinegar. Pick salmon 
over and put with other ingredients (after carefully blending them) 
into double boiler; cook until eggs are done; remove from fire and 
add three tablespoonfuls of gelatin, softened in cold water. Mould, 
chill, and serve with cucumber sauce. 

Sauce : One-half cup cream, beaten ; season with salt, pepper and 
a little onion juice. Add two tablespoonfuls vinegar and one cucumber 
chopped fine and drained as dry as possible. 

SALMON EN SURPRISE Mrs. T. D. McMicken 

Moisten one cup flaked salmon with butter sauce, pinch minced 
parsley; one hard boiled egg, chopped fine. Line individual buttered 
molds with mashed potatoes. Fill centers with fish, cover with potato. 
Turn out carefully, roll in egg crumbs and fry brown. Garnish with a 
slice of hard boiled egg on top of mold and parsley. 

SMOKED STURGEON AND SCRAMBLED EGGS 

Mrs. W. D. Hurlbut 

Mince one-half pound smoked sturgeon ; beat six eggs until light, 
add sturgeon; have butter heated in a skillet, add the mixture and 
scramble. Serve with toast points. 

EGG SAUCE FOR FISH Mrs. Maxwell 

Cook together a tablespoonful each of butter and flour; pour 
upon this a cupful of sweet milk and stir until thick and smooth. Sea- 
son with salt and white pepper, add one hard boiled egg chopped fine ; 
and one raw egg beaten light. Stir just long enough for the sauce to 
return to the boil and serve. 



26 



Fish 

 IllflllflllllllllllllUIItlllltlilllllllllllllllllllllMIIIIllIIIIIIIItlilllllllltfllllltl illlllllllllMIIlIllIIIIIllIIIfllllllllllltllllllllllllllMllIIIIItllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllltlllllltllllllllll 



27 



Fish 

■iiuiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiitfiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiitiitiiiiiiiitiiiiitiiiiiiiiiitiiJiiiiiiiiitJfiiiiiiiitiiiaiiiiiiiitiitiitiiiiiitiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiitiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiituiititiitiiiiiuiiiiiuiifiiiiitiiiM 



88 



SHELL FISH 



I wiped away the weeds and foam, 
I fetched my sea-horn treasures home" 



OYSTER SAUSAGE Mrs. W. L. Gregson 

One-half pound of veal; one pint oysters; one-fourth pound of 
suet; all chopped fine. Add enough rolled cracker to make into pat- 
ties; dip in egg and fry in butter. 

OYSTER CROQUETTES Mrs. Frank Maccoy 

Two sets of calf brains, stewed in salt water; one quart oysters, 
stew in their own liquor until they curl, cut in small pieces. Chop 
brains and mix with oysters ; two tablespoonfuls melted butter ; a few 
drops onion juice; four tablespoonfuls bread crumbs; one-half cup 
cream. If too dry add a little of the oyster juice. Bake in shells. 

DEVILED OYSTERS 

One pint of oysters, seasoned with salt and pepper, stiffened with 
cracker dust to hold shape, place in oyster shells, pour over melted 
butter. Put shells in a dripping pan and bake in a quick oven to a 
light brown. 

CREAMED OYSTERS IN CHAFING DISH Mrs. Marquis Regan 

Put large tablespoonful of butter in chafing dish, when melted 
add two tablespoonfuls of sifted flour, mix thoroughly, then add juice 
strained from one quart of oysters, cook until thickness of cream, 
constantly stirring, then add oysters, cook until edges curl, season to 
taste with salt and pepper, serve on toasted crackers. 

OYSTERS SCALLOPED WITH CELERY Blanch Ellis Layton 

One quart of bulk oysters, one-half dozen stalks of celery, cut 
into one-half inch pieces. Drain the oysters, reserving the liquor. 
Cover bottom of baking dish with crumbs of bread or crackers, then a 
layer of the oysters, with a generous dash of salt and pepper and 
plenty of butter. Over this put a lawyer of the celery, fill the dish 
in this way and pour over one cup of the oyster liquor. On top sprinkle 
a thick layer of the crumbs, adding butter in small pieces. Bake one 
hour in a moderate oven. 

29 



Shell Fish 

■tiiiiiiiiiniiiiiiiiiiitiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiifiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiitiiiiiitiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiifiiiiiiiiB 

OYSTER PIE 

Line a shallow pudding pan with light pastry, put in oysters, 
milk, butter, salt and pepper, bake in a very quick oven 20 minutes; 
one pint of oysters, one pint milk, one tablespoonful butter, salt and 
pepper to taste. 

ROAST OYSTERS ON THE HALF SHELL Mrs. W. D. Hurlbut 

Scrub the shells of live oysters until free from sand; place in 
dripping pan in a hot oven and roast until shells open; take off the 
top shell, being careful not to spill the juice in lower shell; serve in 
the shell with side dish of melted butter. 

PANNED OYSTERS Mrs. H. Clay Calhoun 

Clean one pint of oysters and drain from their liquor. Put in a 
stewpan and cook until oysters are plump and edges begin to curl. 
Shake pan to prevent oysters from adhering to pan. Season with salt, 
pepper and two tablespoonfuls butter and put over small slices of 
toast. Garnish with parsley. 

OYSTER FRICASSEE Mrs. Arthur M. Lucius 

Clean one pint of oysters, heat oyster liquor to boiling point, strain 
through double thickness of cheese-cloth; add oysters to liquor and 
cook until plump. Remove oysters with skimmer and add enough 
cream to oysters to make one cupful. Melt two tablespoonfuls butter 
and add two of flour ; then pour on gradually the hot liquor ; add salt, 
paprika, one teaspoonful finely minced parsley and one egg slightly 
beaten. Pour over oysters and serve. 

BROILED OYSTERS Mrs. W. D. Hurlbut 

Clean oysters and dry on a towel. Dip in butter, then in cracker 
crumbs seasoned with salt and pepper ; place in a buttered wire broiler 
and broil until juice runs ; turn and cook other side. Place on toast, 
mince celery over the oysters and pour over all a thin cream sauce. 

BROILED OYSTERS Mrs. W. K. Mitchell 

Select large oysters ; wrap a thin slice of bacon around each, fasten- 
ing with a toothpick; place in a broiler, which in turn is put in a 
dripping pan to catch the drippings; broil until bacon is brown and 
crisp, turning to cook other side. Garnish with parsley. 

OYSTERS IN BROWN SAUCE 

One pint oysters; one-fourth cup butter; one-fourth cup flour; 
one cupful oyster liquor; one-half cup milk; one teaspoonful Kitchen 
Bouquet; one-half teaspoonful salt; one-eighth teaspoonful pepper. 
Parboil and drain the oysters. Brown the butter, add the flour and 
stir until well blended, add oyster liquor, milk, Kitchen Bouquet, salt, 
pepper and oysters. Serve in patty cases or ramekins. 

30 



Shell Fish 

llllIllIIIlIlllIIIllIIIIIlllllIIllllllIllllIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIllllIllMIlllIllllllIIIlIlllllIIIIIIIIIItMIIIIMIIIIllllllltlllllllllllllllllllllllfllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllltlllllllllllllllllllllllllllllltfl 

CASSEROLE OP OYSTERS Miss Agnes Sieber 

Line ramekins or large casserole with minced chicken, seasoned 
well, and moistened with a little cream. Fill with parboiled oysters 
cut in pieces, and mushrooms sliced sauted in butter and mixed with 
the following sauce : Cook three tablespoonfuls salt pork fat with 
three of flour, add salt, cayenne, nutmeg and parsley ; also thyme and 
mushroom parings. Cook a moment, add one and one-half cups 
white stock, and simmer one hour, skimming often. Strain, add about 
one-half cup hot cream or enough to make sauce right consistency. 
Add four drops lemon juice. Cover with more chicken, sprinkle with 
buttered crumbs, and brown in oven. 

OYSTERS AND MACARONI Mrs. H. Clay Calhoun 

Boil macaroni in salted water, drain through a colander. Drain 
oysters until the liquor is all off. In a casserole put alternate layers 
of macaroni, oysters and a thick cream sauce, until dish is filled; 
sprinkle top with grated cheese and bake about half an hour. 

OMELETTE AUX HUITRES Mrs. R. Woods 

Drain two dozen oysters. Have ready some hot lard and throw 
them in. Let fry until they begin to curl, then spread over them four 
well beaten eggs seasoned with salt and pepper and stir all together 
until done. Serve hot. 

PRIED SCALLOPS 

Clean one quart of scallops, turn into a saucepan and cook until 
they begin to shrivel; drain and dry between towels. Roll in fine 
cracker crumbs seasoned with salt and pepper, dip in egg and again 
in crumbs and fry in deep fat. Garnish with slices of lemon dipped 
in parsley. 

JAMBALAYA OP RICE AND SHRIMPS Mrs. Robert Woods 

Boil two dozen of large shrimps; when cold, peel and set aside. 
Fry in hot lard a chopped onion and a cupful of rice washed in cold 
water. Let the onion and rice fry well, add the shrimps, stirring 
constantly. When browned, add enough water to cover the whole. 
Season with salt and pepper, a bay leaf, thyme and chopped parsley. 
Let boil slowly, and add water until the rice is well cooked. When 
done, let it dry and serve hot. 

SHRIMP FRICASSEE Mrs. Ada Woods 

Boil the desired quantity of shrimp and set aside. For sauce fry 
in three tablespoonfuls bacon drippings a large onion, chopped fine; 
when browned, add three tablespoonfuls flour and blend; add slowly 
about a quart of water, stirring constantly; when smooth add the 
shrimp ; season with a bay leaf, thyme, a tablespoonful chopped parsley 
and a clove of garlic, minced. Let cook slowly until ready to serve. 
Boil rice until dry and creamy and serve with the above. 

31 



Shell Fish 

iiitiiiiiiiiiiititiiiiiiiiitiitiiiiiitiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiitiiifiiitiitiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiitiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiitiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiitiiiiiiiifiiiiiitiiiiiitiiiiiiiiiiiitiiiinttiititnta 

SHRIMP RAMIKINS Mrs. Max Mauermann 

One pint of shrimp; one tablespoonful flour; one tablespoonful 
butter; one tablespoonful catsup; one tablespoonful cream; one cup 
hot soup stock; two yolks eggs; salt, cayenne pepper and grated 
onion. Heat butter, add flour, then other ingredients. Cook until 
smooth, then add shrimp. Pill the ramikins with mixture and cover 
with cracker crumbs and butter. Bake six minutes. 

SHRIMP WIGGLE Mrs. Willard Brown 

Make a rich cream sauce ; add one can of shrimp and one can of 
green peas ; allow to cook until all is well heated, serve on toast. 

CRAB A LA CREOLE 

One can Japanese crab meat ; four tablespoonfuls shortening ; two 
green peppers ; one large onion ; three tomatoes ; one cupful milk ; two 
tablespoonfuls flour ; one teaspoonful Kitchen Bouquet, one teaspoonful 
salt, one-fourth teaspoonful pepper. Make a white sauce by melting 
half the shortening, add flour and when well mixed slowly add milk ; 
stir until creamy, add salt and pepper. In another saucepan melt the 
other half of shortening, when hot, fry onion and pepper, minced, for 
ten minutes. Then add tomatoes, cut up, and when tender add 
Kitchen Bouquet and crab meat and stir slowly into the white sauce. 
When well mixed, pour over buttered toast and serve. 

LOBSTER A LA BOUQUET 

One good sized lobster; two ounces butter; one small onion; one 
can mushrooms; one pint boiling water; one teaspoonful Kitchen 
Bouquet ; one teaspoonful salt ; one saltspoonful pepper. Put the but- 
ter and chopped onion in saucepan, cook until onion is brown, then 
add two tablespoonfuls flour and the water. When boiling add salt 
and pepper. Strain and add mushrooms and Kitchen Bouquet. Sim- 
mer for ten minutes then stand over hot water. Cut lobster in good 
sized pieces, put into sauce, cover the pan closely, let stand ten min- 
utes longer over hot water and serve. 



32 



Shell Fish 

lMiiHniMiiiimiiiimimniiiiuiuMiiiuiiiiiiiiiiimmiiiimiiiiiiimiiinimiiiiiiiiiunnmmniiiim 



33 



Shell Fish 

1 1 1 1 1 1  1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 : i r 1 1 1 1 1 1 : 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 ii i ! 1 1 1 1  1 1 1 n 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 : 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 LUJ ) 1 1 1 1 1 1  1 1 ! 1 1 1  1 1 1 1 f 1 1 1 1 : 1 1 1 1 1 ! 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 : 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 ! 1 1 i 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 ri 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 ! I ! 1 1 > 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 n i [ s 1 1 1 



34 



MEATS AND FOWL 



Some Jiae meat and canna eat, 
And some wad eat that want it. 
But we Jiae meat and we can eat, 
And, so the Lord he thank it." 



BEEFSTEAK ROLL Mrs. J. E. Kelly 

Use a large slice of round steak cut one-half inch thick. Make a 
dressing by mixing together: One cupful grated breadcrumbs, two- 
thirds teaspoonful salt, one well-beaten egg, one tablespoonful melted 
butter, one small onion, grated, a few dashes of paprika and a half 
teaspoonful powdered sweet herbs. Lay the steak on a board, sprinkle 
with salt and pepper, spread thickly with the dressing and roll up. 
Wind with soft cord to hold in place. Put three tablespoonfuls of 
pork fat in a frying pan and when very hot, dredge the roll with 
flour and brown it quickly on all sides. Place meat in kettle that has 
a tight fitting cover. Meanwhile, add to the fat in the pan two slices 
of minced onion, and one tablespoonful flour. Stir until very smooth, 
pour in a cupful of stock (or hot water) and when the gravy boils, pour 
over the roll with a pint of strained tomato. Season to taste with 
salt and pepper, cover the kettle closely and as soon as the contents 
boil, place where it will simmer for about two hours. When cooked, 
remove the strings, and serve on a heated platter, with the strained 
gravy poured over it. 

HAMBURGER POT DINNER Mrs. Antonio Sterba 

With two pounds hamburger steak, mix well one cup raw rice 
(wash well) ; one medium sized onion, chopped ; season and make into 
balls. Line bottom of a pot with small pieces of suet; when this is 
melted, place meat balls in the pot, cover with water, and cook until 
rice is about done. Add one can of tomatoes (quart can). A half 
hour before serving, peel enough medium-sized potatoes to circle the 
platter to be used. Place these on top of tomatoes. When potatoes 
are done, arrange them around the outside rim of the platter with 
the meat balls in the center, and pour over the meat enough gravy for 
first serving. Remainder of gravy may be used on table in a casserole 
or gravy dish. Care must be used in measuring the rice — too much 
will cause the balls to fall to pieces. One advantage of this dish is 
that it may be prepared the day before, or the morning before serving, 
with the exception of the potatoes. 

35 



Meats and Fowl 

 iiiiiniiiiiiriiiMiiiiiiiiitiiiiMiMiiiiiniiiiiiiiiiiiiuiiiiiMiiiiiuiiiiniiiiiiiiiiiiniiiiitHiiuiiiiiiHiiiiiiiiiiiiitiiiniiiiiuiiiiiii iiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiitiiiiiiiiiiuiitiiiiiiiiniiuiit 

CALVES' HEARTS STUFFED AND BRAISED Mrs. W. R. McGhee 

Remove veins, arteries, and blood clots, wash, stuff and sew. 
Sprinkle with salt, pepper, roll in flour and brown richly in hot drip- 
ping. Place in Dutch oven or in one of the small vessels in fireless 
cooker. Half cover with boiling water, surround with six slices carrot, 
one stalk celery, broken in pieces, one onion sliced, two sprays parsley, 
a bit of bay leaf, three cloves and one-half teaspoonful peppercorns. 
Cover closely and bake slowly two or more hours basting often if 
cooked in Dutch oven. If necessary, add more water. Remove hearts 
to serving platter, strain and thicken the liquor with flour diluted 
with water. Season with salt, pepper and one-half teaspoonful Kitchen 
Bouquet. 

LUNCHEON BEEF Mrs. I. A. Wilcox 

One cup or more of cold cooked beef chopped ; one cup of bread 
crumbs; season with salt, pepper and butter. Place in baking dish 
and cover with buttered bread crumbs. Pour milk in dish until you 
can just see it. Bake in oven till light brown on top. Can use any 
kind of cold cooked beef, as steak, roast, or boiled beef. If you have 
a few cold mashed potatoes, put them through ricer on top of meat 
to form upper crust. Dot with butter and let brown. 

POT ROAST Mary S. Vanzwoll 

Round steak one and one-half inches thick. Salt and pepper. 
Pound a cup of flour in, on both sides. Sear both sides in melted fat, 
and butter. Put in baking dish and cover with water. Cook in oven 
two and one-half hours. 

SPANISH STEAK Mrs. W. H. Hart 

One and one-half pounds round steak, ground; one and one-half 
pounds of pork steak, ground ; one heaping cupful oread crumbs ; one 
cupful canned or fresh tomatoes ; two green peppers, minced ; one-half 
cupful minced onion ; one egg ; two teaspoonfuls salt. Mix all together 
and bake forty-five minutes in flat cake. 

BRAISED BEEF Mrs. I. S. Blackwelder 

Round steak about three inches thick (about two pounds) ; place 
in a hot skillet and turn so that it is seared on both sides, to prevent 
escape of juices. In a covered baking pan make a bed of chopped 
vegetables (potatoes, turnips, carrots, onions, etc.) ; season well. Place 
upon it the beef with enough water to keep the mess steaming for 
four hours. Cover tight. 

MOTHER'S BEEF LOAF Mrs. F. E. Lyons 

Three pounds round steak, ground; three eggs; two-thirds cup 
cracker crumbs; three teaspoonfuls ground sage; two teaspoonfuls 
salt; one teaspoonful pepper. Mix together thoroughly and bake in 
a 5xl0-inch bread pan, from one to one and one-half hours. 

36 



Meats and Fowl 

■iiiniiiiiitiiiiiitiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiitiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiitiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiitiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiniiiiiiiiii(iiiiitiiiiiiiiiiitiiiiiiiiiiiiitiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiii(tiiiiiiiiitiiiinina 

MEAT PIE 

Butter an earthen baking dish and line to the depth of one and 
one-half inches with hot mashed potatoes, season with finely chopped 
chives (one tablespoonful to two cups mashed potatoes). Fill center 
with chopped left-over cold beef, veal or chicken. Moisten with brown 
or cream sauce, to which add one-half tablespoonful minced parsley 
and onion juice. Cover with a layer of the potato mixture, make 
several openings in top of pie and brush top over with beaten egg, 
diluted with milk. Bake in hot oven until heated through and well 
browned. Serve hot in baking dish. 

BRAISED LARDED LIVER Mrs. W. R. McGhee 

Skewer, tie in shape (if necessary) and lard the upper side of 
calf's liver. Place in a deep pan with remnants of lardoons; season 
with salt and pepper ; dredge with flour. Surround with one-half each 
carrot, onion, celery, cut in dice; one-half teaspoonful peppercorns, 
six cloves, bit of bay leaf and two cups brown stock or water. Cover 
closely and bake slowly two hours, uncover the last twenty minutes of 
cooking. Remove from pan, serve with the French onions or pour 
around brown sauce. 

HAMBURG STEAK Sue C. Woodman 

Mix one egg and a little salt and pepper; make into balls and 
bake in closed pan quickly. 

POT ROAST Mrs. C. S. Junge 

Procure a Boston cut of roast of beef; brown a minced onion in 
skillet with butter and bacon fat ; in this brown all sides of the roast. 
Remove the roast and in the fat stir two tablespoonfuls of flour and fill 
skillet nearly full of hot water. Season this gravy well with salt, 
pepper, bay and garlic and pour over roast in casserole. Place a few 
slices of tomato on top or pour in a cup of strained tomato ; place some 
carrots around the roast and put in cooker for at least four hours. 

BRAIN PATTIES Mrs. E. Iglehart 

Plange the calf's brains into boiling water for three minutes, 
remove from water and pick off the dark muscles, roll into cracker 
dust or bread crumbs in small patties and drop into hot fat. Salt 
and pepper. 

ROAST BEEF SOUFFLE Mrs. H. S. Hart 

One tablespoonful butter melted in sauce pan, one tablespoonful 
of flour added and well mixed, one cup milk. Chop beef, or any kind 
of cold meat quite fine and add to milk after it has thickened; salt 
and pepper to taste. Then stir in the yolks of three eggs, cook slightly, 
cool, add beaten whites of eggs. Put in greased dish and bake about 
half an hour. Is nice served with tomato sauce or peas. About one 
and one-half cups of the chopped meat for the above. 

37 



Meats and Fowl 

fejiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiitiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiniiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiniiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiitiiiiiiiiitiiiiiiiiitiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiitiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiitiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiitiifK 

MEAT LOAF Mrs. L. E. Brown 

Two pounds of round steak ; one pound fresh pork ; four tomatoes ; 
three pimentoes; two eggs; four crackers, rolled; salt, pepper and 
paprika. Mix altogether; bake in bread pan two hours in moderate 
oven. Sauce : One and one-half tablespoonfuls butter, flour and milk. 
Season with liquid from meat. 

TOUGH STEAKS Mrs. E. S. Smith 

Pour a mixture of two tablespoonfuls of vinegar ; and one of olive 
oil over a steak. Let stand several hours before broiling. The result 
is delicious. 

VEAL CROQUETTES Belle Shaw 

Two pounds veal, chopped fine; one teaspoonful chopped pars- 
ley; two eggs, hard boiled and chopped; salt and pepper, to taste. 
Soak enough bread crumbs, and add to mixture; form balls. Roll in 
egg and cracker crumbs and fry in deep fat. 

BONED AND STUFFED LEG OF LAMB Mrs. H. L. Baumgardner 

Order a leg of lamb boned at the market. Make a stuffing as for 
chicken. Put in roasting pan with a small sliced onion, one-fourth cup 
each of turnip and carrot, season with bay leaf and parsley. Add three 
cupfuls of hot water, salt and pepper. Cook slowly until done. Serve 
with Currant Jelly Sauce. 

Currant Jelly Sauce: To the regular brown gravy you would 
make with roast, add one-half cupful of currant jelly which has been 
beaten and a little lemon juice; well stirred together and let all boil 
a minute or two. 

LAMB STEW A LA CREOLE 

Wipe three pounds lamb, cut from neck or shoulder. Cut into 
pieces two inches square. Melt one-fourth cup dripping, add meat 
and stir and brown evenly. Add two onions, thinly sliced, one sprig 
parsley, small bit bay leaf, two cloves and one-half teaspoonful pepper- 
corns (tie last three spices in a bit of cheese cloth), and boiling water 
to nearly cover meat. Simmer slowly until meat is tender (about one 
and one-half hours). Then add two or three small carrots, scraped 
and cut in lengthwise pieces, season with salt. Parboil six medium- 
sized potatoes cut in thick slices five minutes, drain, add to stew ; add 
two cups thick tomato puree and simmer slowly until vegetables are 
tender. Add more water if necessary. Remove spices, add one cup 
French peas when heated through, turn into deep, hot platter and 
sprinkle with chopped parsley. 

LAMB HASH WITH GREEN PEPPERS Mrs. W. D. Hurlbut 

Mince cold roast lamb in about half inch pieces; add a sweet 
green pepper, minced (discarding seeds) ; add the gravy and heat 
thoroughly. Serve on toast. 

38 



Meats and Fowl 

■iiiniiiiiitiiiiuiniftiiiiiitiiiiiiiiiiiiiitifiinnftiniiiitiiiiiiiiiiiniiiiiiiiiifiiifiniiiiiiinniiiiiiftiitttiiuiiiiitniitiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiifiiiiiiiitiiiiuiiitiiiitnitiiiiiiiiiiiiiitiiia 

/ 

RECIPE FOR CORNING BEEF Mrs. W. T. Foster 

Five tablespoonfuls of salt; two tablespoonfuls of brown sugar; 
one-half teaspoonful salt peter, or less ; this is for five pounds of beef. 
Cover with water ; leave three or four days and boil in same water. 

MOCK TERRAPIN Mrs. W. H. Muschlet 

Two cupfuls cold boiled or roast lamb cut into small pieces. Put 
a tablespoonful of butter into double boiler; when melted add one 
tablespoonful of flour. Rub smooth; add one pint of milk; stir con- 
tinuously till it thickens; then set pot back where it won't cook hard, 
and add one well beaten egg, a tablespoonful minced parsley, a little 
nutmeg, red pepper, salt to taste, two hard boiled eggs cut (not too 
fine) ; then the lamb. Let it keep hot, but not boil, till lamb is thor- 
oughly heated. When serving, add a teaspoonful lemon juice. 

VEAL LOAF WITH EGG Mrs. H. B. Rairden 

Two and one-half pounds of veal; two pork chops, ground to- 
gether; three eggs; three rolled crackers; one teaspoonful each salt 
and pepper. Mix well together. Put half of mixture in a loaf pan, 
peel six eggs which have been hard boiled, clip off the ends so they 
fit closely together, and lay them in the center of the loaf; place the 
balance of the meat about them, fill up pan, packing it solid; put in 
double baker on top of stove to steam for one and one-half hours, 
spread butter over top and put in oven to finish baking. In slicing it 
you get the slice of hard boiled egg in the center. 

VEAL LOAF Mrs. A. Donald Campbell 

One and one-half pounds of veal and one slice of salt pork, chopped 
fine. Add two tablespoonfuls of cracker dust ; one egg ; piece of butter 
size of an egg; one teaspoonful each of salt and pepper; little grated 
nutmeg; dash of Worcestershire sauce. Mix well and bake in a loaf 
shaped pan with cracker crumbs and bits of butter on top. Bake 
about one and three-quarters hours. 

BAKED SPICED HAM, ALABAMA STYLE Mrs. K. T. Cary 

Soak a fifteen pound ham in cold water to cover over night. Wash, 
scrub and trim off inedible parts. Set over a trivet in a boiler and 
cover with boiling water. Mix four cups brown sugar, one large 
sliced onion, one red Chili pepper pod, one tablespoonful each of whole 
cloves, allspice and cassia buds, two thinly sliced lemons, discarding 
seeds, add to water in boiler. Cover and cook slowly two and one- 
half hours. Remove from boiler, peel off rind and put ham in dripping 
pan, fat side up. Bake slowly two and one-half hours, basting with 
one cup sherry wine (using a tablespoon) a little at a time until all is 
used, then baste with dripping in pan thirty minutes, before removing 
from oven, sprinkle fat side with equal measures of brown sugar and 
fine bread crumbs, stick with cloves and brown richly. Serve hot 
champagne, horseradish or mustard sauce. 

39 



Meats and Fowl 

«llllllIIIIItIllllIIIIIllllIltllltlllIIItllflltIllllllllllllllllIIIlllIlIlIlltIIIIlIllllIlltlllllIllltllllllfllllIllllllllllIIIIiIfUIIlIIIlllllIllltlllIIllIIIIlIllllllIIIlIIIIIllllIlllIllIlIIIIIIItlllIlllIlllfltIIIB 

KOLDOLMA Mrs. F. W. Waddell 

Two pounds of veal; one pound fresh pork; one-half lemon, bay 
leaf and one small bottle capers; one clove of garlic; juice of one 
onion. Put all through grinder, salt, pepper to taste. Roll in small 
soft balls. Enclose neatly in cabbage leaves, secure with toothpicks. 
Place in Dutch oven which has previously melted one-fourth pound 
of butter with a little chopped parsley. Alternate layers with a small 
sifting of flour until all are in pan. Let simmer in one pint of water 
(boiling) without allowing any steam to escape for two hours ; remove 
and thicken broth with yolks of five eggs. Serve eight persons. 

VIRGINIA HAM Mrs. G. W. Plummer 

Buy a center cut of ham, two inches thick (about two and one- 
half or three pounds) ; soak over night in milk (sweet or sour) suffi- 
cient to cover ham. About two hours before serving time drain off 
enough milk so that the top of ham is uncovered; spread over this 
uncovered top ; one tablespoonful dry ground mustard mixed with two 
tablespoonfuls brown sugar; bake in a slow oven. The milk will dis- 
appear in a rich brown gravy; if it gets too low in pan add water. 
When ready to serve remove ham to platter, add flour to fat in pan 
and when well cooked, add boiling water to make gravy of consistency 
of thick cream. Lemon slices and sherry may be added. It may need 
to be strained if milk curds are objected to; pour around ham. Has 
flavor of finest "Old Virginia Ham." 

HAM EN CASSEROLE Mrs. A. Donald Campbell 

Have ham cut two inches thick, leaving on rind. Pour over it 
good, generous cup of milk and one-half cup brown sugar, partly dis- 
solving sugar in the milk on top of stove, before pouring over ham. 
Cook all in casserole two hours. Serve with rings of fried apples on 
chop plate. 

ROGNONS AUX TOMATOES Mrs. R. Woods 

Cut in small pieces a fresh kidney and fry in hot lard. When 
almost done add to it a sliced onion, half cup of tomatoes and a slice 
of ham. Let all fry together, and when done add a spoonful of flour, 
a piece of red pepper and a spoonful of chopped garlic and parsley. 
Thin with a little water, season with salt, and let boil a few minutes, 
when it is done. 

EASTER HAM Mrs. E. Iglehart 

One-half pint grated bread crumbs, one cup currants, one salt- 
spoonful of salt, one saltspoonful sweet marjoram or thyme, one salt 
spoonful of black pepper, moisten with sweet milk. Boil small ham 
until tender, remove bone and skin, fill in the cavity with dressing, 
wind with cord into shape, puncture with skewer in the fat parts and 
fill the holes with dressing. Bake in a closed pan in a hot oven one 
hour. 

40 



Meats and Fowl 

■IIIIIIllllllIlllIllIIIIIIIIIIIIIllllllllIIIIIIIIllIlllIllIlllllIlllIIIIIIlllIIIIllIllIllllIlIIIlIllIIIIIllllIIIIIIIIlIIilllllllllllllllllMIIIIIllIIIIllIllllllIlllllIIIIIMIIIlllllllIIIIllItllllllllllllllJIIllIllllB 

HAM PUFF Mrs. A. Donald Campbell 

Scald one pint of milk, one cup flour; stir constantly until thick. 
Let cool, then add beaten yolks of eight eggs. Beat thoroughly, add 
beaten whites, a little suet, one and one-half cups of chopped, boiled 
ham, and one-half cup butter. Set tin in pan of water, and bake 
three-fourths of an hour. Keep standing in water until served. 

HAM LOAF Mrs. W. C. Thorbus 

Two pounds of ham, ground ; one pound of pork loin, ground ; two 
eggs, beaten ; one cupful rolled cracker crumbs ; one cupful milk ; pep- 
per to taste. Mix all together, put in a baking tin and pour over it 
one cupful tomatoes and bake two hours. 

JAMABALA OF HAM Mrs. H. Clay Calhoun 

One large slice of raw ham; one large onion; put through the 
grinder and fry. When thoroughly cooked add two cups boiled rice; 
one quart of tomatoes and half of a sweet green pepper, chopped fine. 
Serve hot on toast. 

BARBECUED ROAST PORK Mrs. Chase 

Place pork roast in dry self-basting or similar roaster. Place in 
oven for thirty minutes. In meantime put one cup of vinegar, one 
teaspoonful red pepper, one teaspoonful black pepper, one teaspoonful 
salt in saucepan and bring to a boil. Baste roast every fifteen or 
twenty minutes with this sauce at boiling point, draining off sauce 
after each basting and returning sauce to saucepan, which should be 
kept at the boiling point. Drain off sauce and serve in separate dish. 

CROWN ROAST OF YOUNG PORK Mrs. M. Dippen 

Have crown roast made of young pork ribs, same as of lamb ; fill 
the center with medium sized potatoes, boiled and rolled in butter and 
minced parsley; surround with fried apples. 

BROILED SAUSAGE Mrs. W. D. Hurlbut 

One and one-half or two pounds of well seasoned sausage meat 
mold it into a flat cake; place in a frying basket which, in turn, is 
put in a larger pan, to catch the drippings. Put under the blaze and 
let it broil slowly; when nicely browned on one side turn it over and 
brown that side. When done remove to hot platter and surround with 
fried apples. 

PORK CHOPS WITH POTATOES Mrs. C. S. Junge 

In a casserole place a layer of sliced raw potatoes and over it 
sprinkle of flour. Put in a layer of chops and a layer of potatoes 
and repeat until casserole is full. Nearly cover with milk that is 
seasoned with salt and pepper. Sprinkle cheese over top and bake 
two hours. 

41 



Meats and Fowl 

■iiiijiiiiiiiiitiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiijiijiiiiiiiiiiiitiiiiiiiiiiiitiiiiiiiiiiittiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiitiiitiitiiiiitiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiifittiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiniiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiin 

GRANDMOTHER'S PORK NOODLES Mrs. H. D. Sheldon 

One-half pound of salt pork, sliced; six medium onions; six 
medium potatoes; noodles. Boil salt pork until very nearly done. 
Add potatoes and onions. Cook until they are beginning to be 
tender. Have about two quarts of water left. Add noodles and finish 
cooking. This will make a thick stew. 

PORK CHOP CASSEROLE Mrs. George D. Milligan 

Sprinkle bottom of dish with flour; place pork chops then on 
top a layer of sliced raw potatoes and onions, finish with bread 
crumbs. Bake until potatoes are done. Use no liquid. 

BAKED PORK CHOPS Sue C. Woodman 

Cut thick, wash and dip in flour; place in deep pan; season 
with pepper, salt, and a little sage. Cover tightly and bake forty 
minutes in quick oven. 

STUFFED PORK TENDERLOINS Mrs. C. E. Balluff 

Split two large tenderloins and flatten out as wide as possible, 
spread one with a very thick layer of dressing (such as is used for 
turkey dressing) . Place the second tenderloin on this and tie them to- 
gether, roast in a medium oven, basting frequently with boiling water 
and a small piece of melted butter. 

STUFFED SPARERIBS Mrs. H. L. Middleton 

Have two sets of ribs cracked across the middle ; rub the insides 
with salt, pepper and dredge with flour. Cook sauerkraut half an 
hour, drain and fill the ribs; tie or sew closely together and put in 
oven. Pour over the ribs the water in which the sauerkraut was 
boiled. When one side is browned, turn them over and brown the 
other side. Serve with brown gravy. 

DELMONICO CLUB HOUSE SAUSAGE Miss A. Brennan 

To every twenty-one pounds of meat: Lean pork, seven pounds; 
fat, seven pounds ; round beef, seven pounds. Seven ounces salt ; one 
and one-half ounces black pepper ; one coffee cup powdered sage and 
summer savory; one teaspoonful cayenne, slack; one tablespoonful 
freshly ground ginger; one tablespoonful ground mustard. Get your 
meat ground at the butchers. Mix the sausage yourself. Mix spices 
all together with salt, working it through the meat with your hands. 

FRIED PICKLED PIGS' FEET Mrs. W. D. Hurlbut 

Have butcher split the pigs' feet; boil until bones are ready to fall 
out; put in an earthen dish and cover with a mild vinegar which has 
been boiled for ten minutes with a few slices of onion and spices ; when 
the vinegar is cold the pigs' feet will be sufficiently pickled. Drain, 
roll in flour and fry. 

42 



Meats and Fowl 

iiiifiiiiiiiiiitiiiiiitiitiiniiiitniiiitiiiiiiiiiitiiHiiiiiiitiiiiiitiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiittiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiitfiiftittiiiiiiitiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiitiiiiitiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiin 

ENGLISH SAUSAGE Mrs. C. A. Carscadin 

Six pounds lean pork ; two pounds fat pork ; one pound loaf bread 
thoroughly soaked in water; two ounces salt; one ounce best white 
pepper; two medium sized nutmegs, grated. Mix all together, put 
into chopper. Leg of pork is best, but shoulder will do. 

ESCALLOPED SWEETBREADS Mrs. E. K. Parker 

One pair sweetbreads; one can mushrooms; two cups of cream; 
butter size of an egg; one tablespoonful flour. Parboil sweetbreads 
twenty minutes then chop rather fine ; add mushrooms and chop. Put 
butter in spider and let it melt and as it begins to brown, add the flour 
and stir; then add cream, stirring all the time to prevent lumps. Put 
in the sweetbreads and mushrooms and let cook a few minutes. Add 
one teaspoonful Worcestershire sauce and pour mixture in baking 
dish. Put cracker crumbs and lumps of butter on top and bake half 
an hour. 

CREAMED SWEETBREADS 

WITH TOMATO SAUCE Mrs. W. D. Hurlbut 

Parboil sweetbreads in acidulated salt water, cook slowly for 
twenty minutes; drain, plunge into cold water. Make a rich cream 
sauce, separate sweetbreads and mix with the cream sauce; put in 
ramekins, cover with bread crumbs; in the center place a tablespoon- 
ful tomato sauce; put in oven and bake until crumbs are brown; 
place a sprig of parsley on top and serve. 

CHICKEN A LA KING Mrs. W. C. Thorbus 

Heat two tablespoonfuls butter until it bubbles; add one chopped 
green pepper; let cook slowly for three minutes, then add one table- 
spoonful flour ; salt and pepper to taste and enough rich milk to make 
a smooth thickened sauce; when thoroughly done add two cupfuls 
cooked chicken and let it heat through. Mushrooms may be added. 

CHICKEN NOODLES AND MUSHROOMS Mrs. W. D. Hurlbut 

Pick the meat from the bones and cut in rather large pieces; 
add a can of mushrooms and the thickened chicken gravy. Boil noodles 
twenty minutes in salted water ; drain and add noodles to the chicken. 
Mix all together and let heat thoroughly. Serve with toast points. 

CHICKEN A LA CREOLE Mrs. R. Woods 

Clean and cut up two young chickens, sprinkle with salt and pep- 
per and fry in hot lard. When done, put in a dish and set aside. 
And now start your sauce. Fry an onion and add flour for thickening. 
When brown, add a can of sweet peppers, let fry a little, then add the 
tomatoes and a few bay leaves and a sprig of thyme. When the sauce 
is done throw in the fried chickens, but do not let the whole boil 
long. 

43 , A 



Meats and Fowl 

■iiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiitiitiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiitiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiitiiiiiiiiitiiiitiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiitiiiiiiiiitiiiitttiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiniiiiiiiiin 

SWEET BREAD PATTIES 

Parboil one pair sweetbreads in boiling, salted, acidulated water, 
fifteen minutes. Drain and cut in one-half inch cubes. Add one-half 
the measure of small mushrooms, heated in the liquor in the can, 
drained, cooled and sliced, and one tablespoonful pimento cut into 
bits. Reheat in one and one-half cups of sauce (cream) and serve in 
patty shells. 

BAKED MACARONI AND CHICKEN Bertha Z. Bisbee 

Stew until tender a nice fat hen, in plenty of water. Pick meat 
off bones and shred rather finely. Boil one pound of macaroni or 
spaghetti twenty minutes in plenty of water to which has been added 
a teaspoonful of salt. Drain as dry as possible. Cover the bottom 
of a buttered baking dish with the macaroni, adding chicken and 
macaroni in alternate layers. Add one cup of cream to the gravy in 
which the chicken was cooked, salt and pepper to taste, and thicken 
with flour or corn starch. Pour enough over the macaroni and chicken 
to cover it. Bake in a slow oven until nicely browned on top. 

REAL COTTAGE CHICKEN Mrs. F. W. Waddell 

Boil one package of macaroni in salted water in the usual manner. 
Use three or four pounds chicken. Place in Dutch Oven whole. After 
browning, four tablespoonfuls of butter with a little parsley cover 
tightly and simmer forty-five minutes. Remove cover and add salt and 
pepper. When sufficiently cooked, so that the fowl will slip from the 
bone, turn out fire and let cool. Remove bones and place in receptacle 
once more. Add one pint of pure cream, the macaroni previously 
cooked, and let boil up just three minutes, and let stand until ready 
to serve. Better to stand for an hour. 

BOUCHEES A LA REINE Mrs. Robert Woods 

Take good sized young hen and boil it. When done take all the 
meat, chop it, but not too fine and keep the ' c bouillon. ' ' Have ready 
some mushrooms and truffles cut in small pieces. Fry an onion in hot 
lard, add flour and brown well; in this throw your meat, mushrooms 
and truffles. Give two or three turns in the pan and add the bouillon 
to make the sauce. Do not make it too thin. Season with a little 
pepper. The small "pates" are ordered from the confectioner and are 
kept warm until needed. When the filling is done and you are ready 
to serve, fill each pate with the stew and send warm to the table. 

CHICKEN IN ASPIC Mrs. E. S. Bailey 

Draw one large chicken; boil until meat drops from bones and 
there is about one pint of liquid. Chop chicken and add a teaspoon- 
ful of salt and one-half teaspoonful pepper; also one tablespoonful of 
celery salt. Hard boil three eggs and soak one-half package gelatine 
five minutes and add to hot liquid. Chill mold and put in layer of 
chicken and three eggs and put balance of chicken in. Then pour the 
liquid on mold and chill. 

44 



Meats and Fowl 

llllIIIIIIIIIIlIIIllIllIIIIIIlllIIlIIIIIIIIttlllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllltlllllllllllttllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllHIIlIIIIIIlllllIIIIlItlllllllllllllllllUIIIIIIIIllIIIItlllltlltHtlllinilllllll 

CHICKEN TERRAPIN FOR SIX PEOPLE Mrs. J. P. Cobb 

One cup of chicken cut the size of an egg ; one cup of canned mush- 
rooms ; make a cream sauce of the chicken stock ; when this is boiled 
up, add the chicken and mushrooms, yolk of one egg beaten, one tea- 
spoonful of Worcestershire sauce, teaspoonful sherry. Serve on platter 
with whipped cream or brown with bread crumbs. 

SPANISH CHICKEN Mrs. Lester Tennant 

Cut up two chickens, about five pounds in all; good fat yellow 
hens are the best. Put in a good sized pot and put in cold water 
enough to cover about two inches over all; cover and let heat very 
slowly; stew until meat can be picked from the bones. When the 
liquor the chicken is cooked in becomes cold, remove all fat and save 
to make stew in. Cut up six fair sized potatoes; one large onion; two 
large green peppers ; one clove of garlic ; one can of mushrooms ; one 
can tomatoes ; one can of peas ; one bottle of little stuffed olives. Re- 
move meat from chicken bones, then put in tomatoes, potatoes, peas, 
etc., in the liquor. Cut each mushroom through and add one wineglass 
each of olive oil and good white wine; three fair sized bay leaves; a 
large pinch of thyme ; a few sprigs of parsley ; salt ; celery salt ; black 
pepper and tobasco sauce to taste. When potatoes are done, add one 
large tablespoonful butter, put in the chicken meat and the stew is 
ready to serve. Have plenty of toast to serve chicken on. This will 
serve sixteen people and may be made the day before. 

CURRY OF CHICKEN EN CASSEROLE Mrs. W. P. Hilliard 

Clean, singe, dress and cut up a three and one-half pound chicken 
as for fried chicken ; melt one-third cup butter in an iron frying pan ; 
sprinkle chicken with salt and pepper ; arrange in hot frying pan and 
cook ten minutes, turning so as to brown evenly; add giblets; con- 
tinue cooking ten minutes longer. Arrange chickens in a hot casserole 
with one thinly sliced onion ; one-half tablespoonful salt, and broth or 
boiling water to cover; cover casserole and simmer in oven until 
chicken is tender. Remove chicken; strain liquor; melt one-fourth 
cup butter ; add two tablespoonfuls flour, mixed with two tablespoon- 
fuls curry powder; stir until smooth. Add strained liquor (there 
should be two cups) ; one-third cup currant jelly and salt to season. 
Turn one-half of sauce into casserole; arrange chicken over sauce 
and cover with remaining sauce. Serve in casserole. Serve boiled 
rice with chicken curry. 

SALMI OF DUCK Mrs. S. E. Baumgardner 

Cut cold roast duck in pieces and heat in the following sauce: 
One tablespoonful butter; one small onion chopped fine; a stalk of 
celery and one sliced carrot; saute until brown then add one table- 
spoonful flour; two cups water; a bayleaf ; a spray of parsley; a few 
cloves and salt and pepper; let cook a few minutes. Strain, put in 
the duck ; add six olives sliced lengthwise ; a small can of mushrooms, 
cut in two ; let all heat and serve. 

45 



Meats and Fowl 

*iiiiiiiiiifiiiiiiiiifitiiiiiiiiiiiitiiiiiiiitiiiiiiiiiitiiiiitiiiiiiiiiiifiiiiiiiiiitiiiiiitiiiiii|iiifitftiiiifiiiiiiiiiiiitiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiaiiifiiitiiiiiiiiiiiiiitiiiiiitiiiiiiiiiiiiiiitiiiiiiiiitiiiiiiiiitiiira 

CREOLE CHICKEN 

Cut two chickens in pieces for serving; sprinkle with salt and 
pepper. Melt one-half cup butter; add one-half cup finely chopped 
onion ; add chickens, saute a golden brown, turning chickens to evenly 
brown; remove chickens; add one-half cup flour; stir until well 
blended; then pour on two cups chicken stock and two cups tomato 
puree; one mild red pepper, finely chopped; one-half can mushrooms, 
drained and thinly sliced; one cup finely cut celery; season with salt 
and pepper. Add chickens and simmer until tender. Dispose on hot 
serving platter; surround with sauce; garnish with parsley. 

CHICKEN CURRY WITH MUSHROOMS 

IN CHAFING DISH Mrs. M. Regan 

One medium sized can of boneless chicken ; one-half can of French 
mushrooms; one heaping teaspoonful Indian currypowder; one large 
tablespoonf ul of butter ; two tablespoonf uls of sifted flour and two cups 
milk. Put butter in chafing dish, when melted add flour; then milk 
slowly, and salt and pepper to taste. When creamy add chicken cut 
fine and chopped mushrooms; stir constantly until heated thoroughly 
and just before serving add curry powder. Eat on hot toast. 

SQUAB EN CASSEROLE Mrs. W. D. Hurlbut 

Wash squabs and stuff with boiled rice in which the cooked, 
minced giblets of the squabs have been mixed; place in casserole and 
pour a little melted butter over each squab ; sprinkle with salt and pep- 
per and onion salt. Use the water in which the giblets were cooked 
for stock, there should be one cup. Put in oven and bake until tender. 

PIGEON PIE Mrs. Culbertson 

Dress, clean and truss six young, fat pigeons. Brown them richly 
in tried out salt pork fat. Put in a Dutch oven or kettle, cover with 
boiling water. Add two stalks celery, broken in pieces; a bit of bay 
leaf; one-half teaspoonful pepper-corns; one onion sliced; six slices 
of carrot; two sprays parsley and simmer five to six hours or until 
tender. Add one-half tablespoonful salt last hour of cooking. Re- 
move pigeons; strain liquid and thicken with one-fourth cup butter, 
cooked one minute with one-fourth cup flour, stirring constantly, until 
gravy is smooth. Arrange pigeon in a deep baking dish; pour over 
gravy and cover with a baking powder crust, and bake in a hot oven. 

A GOOD IMITATION OP 

MARYLAND FRIED CHICKEN Mrs. J. G. Sherer 

It may be made from rabbit. Choose a young tender rabbit; cut 
it into pieces of desired size; put pieces in a pot, cover with boiling 
water, and parboil gently for twenty minutes ; dip each piece in flour, 
egg and cracker crumbs and fry in deep fat until a rich brown. 
Evaporate by boiling some of the water in which the meat was boiled. 
Use some of it with milk in making " cream gravy.' ' 

46 



Meats and Fowl 

IflllllllllllfUlIIIIlIIIIltlllllllllllllllllllltllltlltlllllllllllltlltlltlllllltllllllllltllllltlllllllllllltlllllllllllllllltllttllllllllllllltltllllllllllltlllltlltfllllllllllllllllllltllllllllllllllllUIIIIIlItll 

RABBIT STEW Mrs. J. G. Sherer 

Rub the inside of a saucepan with a dose of garlic ; put in pieces 
of hare left; add three-quarters cup of stewed tomatoes; two raw 
carrots, cut into small cubes; one small onion, sliced; a teaspoonful 
of chopped parsley, and about a cup of hot water. Cover tightly and 
cook until the potatoes are tender (and carrots). Thicken and serve 
in a border of steamed rice and serve with tiny dumplings. 

BELGIAN HARE EN CASSEROLE Mrs. J. G. Sherer 

Separate a dressed hare into pieces of desired shape; rub each 
piece with a little lemon juice and oil which have been stirred together. 
Let the meat stand covered a few hours; sprinkle with paprika and 
brown each piece in a little fat in a " sizzling hot" frying pan. Some 
use two or three slices of fat bacon cut into small pieces for the brown- 
ing. When golden brown, put the meat in the casserole, cover with 
boiling water; cover and place in a very moderate oven. At the end 
of half an hour add two cups of stock or hot water ; one tablespoonful 
of lemon juice, or vinegar, a bit of bay leaf and two teaspoonfuls 
of onion juice. Cook in a moderate oven about three hours. Bring 
to the table without removing the cover. And if you have any of the 
Belgian Hare en Casserole left, make for lunch the next day, the 
savory little Eabbit Stew. 

CHOP SUEY Mrs. J. G. Sherer 

One pound veal ; one pound pork ; one can mushrooms ; eight stalks 
celery ; fifteen onions ; two tablespoonf uls molasses ; little flour on top. 
Cut meat in small pieces and simmer about twenty minutes ; add mush- 
rooms and molasses; then celery and onions. Cook slowly until ten- 
der. Sprinkle a little flour over it and mix well; then salt, paprika 
and about three tablespoonf uls or more (to taste) of chop suey sauce. 
Simmer meat without water ; serve with boiled rice. 

CHOP SUEY Mrs. C. S. Junge 

Cut tender, fresh, lean pork, chicken, veal or all of these into 
thin, inch squares and saute well in bacon fat. Have ready one-half 
as much in bulk of celery ; cut in inch pieces and an onion ; saute these 
in same fat. After this, saute mushrooms ; put altogether and barely 
cover with hot water, chicken or veal broth. Add Chinese potatoes and 
sprouted barley, if they can be procured; add one tablespoonful of 
molasses; one teaspoonful of salt; one teaspoonful of Chinese Soy; 
a dash of pepper and put in cooker for three hours or more. 

CHOP SUEY Mrs. W. F. Barnard 

One pound pork from shoulder ; one pound veal from leg ; fry one- 
half hour in a little fat. When brown, add a little water and cook ten 
minutes, and add one cup celery cut up; one onion, cut up. When 
nearly done, sprinkle with flour enough to thicken, add two table- 
spoonfuls of molasses. Serve with rice. 

47 



Meats and Fowl 

Ulllllllllllllllllllllltlllllllllllllllllllltlllllllllllilllllllllllllillllllttlllllllllltlltllllllllllllllltlllllltlllllllltllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllltllllllllllllllllllllllllttllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllt 

CHESTNUT STUFFING Mrs. S. E. Baumgardner 

Shell and blanch four cupfuls French chestnuts; cook in boiling 
salted water until tender ; put through a ricer ; season with salt, pepper 
and a little nutmeg; two tablespoonfuls butter and one-half cupful 
of cream. Add this to your regular bread mixture for stuffing fowl. 

CHESTNUT STUFFING 

Shell and blanch French chestnuts, there should be two cups. 
Cook in boiling salted water until soft. Drain, mash and pass through 
a potato ricer; add one-four cup butter; one teaspoonful salt; one- 
eighth teaspoonful pepper; a few grains nutmeg and one-half cup 
cream. Melt one-fourth cup butter, pour over one cup soft bread 
crumbs; mix well; combine mixtures and use as filling for turkey, 
capon or guinea chicken. 

OYSTER DRESSING FOR FOWLS Mrs. W. S. Kiskaddon 

For an eight or ten-pound turkey cut the brown crust from slices 
of stale bread until you have as much as the inside of a pound loaf. 
Put into a suitable dish and pour tepid water over it; take up a 
handful at the time and squeeze it hard and dry with both hands, 
placing it as you go along in another dish; now when all is pressed 
dry, toss it all up lightly through your fingers ; now add pepper and 
salt — about a tablespoonful — also powdered summer savory and sage, 
and one pint of oysters drained and slightly chopped. For geese and 
ducks the dressing may be made the same. 

RICE DRESSING FOR DUCK OR GOOSE Mrs. H. P. E. Hafer 

Boil one cup of rice tender. Chop one stalk celery; two onions; 
one outside of green pepper ; a little piece of garlic ; fry in butter and 
add boiled rice. 



48 



Meats and Fowl 
fiiiiiitiifiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiitiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiitfiiiiiiiiifiiiiiiiiitiiiiiitiiitiiiiiiiiiiiittiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiittiiitiiiiitiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiii 



49 



Meats and Fowl 

llllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllilllllllllllllllflllllllllllllllllllltlllllllllJIlllIlIIlIillllililllllllllllllllilllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllttllU 



60 



SAUCES 



HOLLANDAISE SAUCE Mrs. A. Donald Campbell 

One tablespoonful flour and one teaspoonful butter; mix over 
fire until smooth; add, gradually, one pint of boiling water, until all 
is the consistency of cream. Boil for two or three minutes and season 
with one salt spoon of salt ; one-half teaspoonful mustard ; one-quarter 
teaspoonful pepper. Take from fire and add yolks of two eggs, well 
beaten ; mixing all until smooth. Add slowly, three tablespoonfuls oil 
and one tablespoonful vinegar. Lemon juice instead of vinegar makes 
it much more delicate. 

HOLLANDAISE SAUCE Belle Shaw 

Two tablespoonfuls butter; one tablespoonful flour; one-half pint 
boiling water; one-half teaspoonful salt; add gradually yolks of two 
eggs, well beaten ; juice of one-half lemon ; one-half teaspoonful onion 
juice ; cook over hot water. Be careful not to get sauce too thick. 

TARTAR SAUCE NO. 1 Mrs. Carl S. Junge 

Sweet cucumber pickles ; green peppers and onion. Chop fine and 
mix with mayonnaise salad dressing. 

TARTAR SAUCE NO. 2 Mrs. Carl S. Junge 

Tablespoonful mixed capers; tablespoonful cucumber pickles, 
chopped; teaspoonful parsley; teaspoonful Tarragon; teaspoonful 
mixed mustard ; one-half pint mayonnaise dressing. 

RICH GRAVY WITHOUT MEAT Mrs. T. M. Butler 

Heat a sufficient amount of lard or drippings in a skillet into which 
two or three tablespoonfuls of flour have been stirred until a very 
light brown; then add two-thirds milk to one-third water and season 
with salt and pepper, adding a level teaspoonful of extract of beef 
and stir until completely dissolved. 

A VEGETABLE SAUCE 

One-half teaspoonful kitchen boquet; one level tablespoonful 
flour ; two tablespoonfuls butter ; one-fourth teaspoonful salt ; two cup- 
fuls hot milk ; two egg yolks ; blend flour and butter ; add salt and milk 
and boil until smooth and of the desired thickness. Then gradually 
add the yolks of eggs and kitchen boquet. This may be served on 
any vegetable desired. 

51 



Sauces 

IIIIlIIIIIIIIIIIIIIlIlllIIIIIIIIIllllllllIlllIlllIIIIlllIlllIllIIIIIIIIIIIIllIMIIMIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIilllllilMIIIIIIIIIIlIllllIIIIIIIllllllllIlllfllllllllllllllltllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllltl 

CREOLE SAUCE 

One teaspoonful Kitchen Boquet; one onion; five shallots; two 
green peppers ; one tablespoonful butter ; one tablespoonf ul flour ; four 
large tomatoes; one-half bean garlic; one teaspoonful salt; one tea- 
spoonful sugar; six canned mushrooms; one-half teaspoonful parsley. 
Slice fine onion, shallots and pepper. Cook in butter to a light brown ; 
stir constantly. Then the garlic minced, and the flour. Stir all to- 
gether and add tomatoes, seasoning, mushrooms, and parsley. Cook 
twenty minutes, stirring occasionally. Just before serving, add one 
teaspoonful Kitchen Boquet. 

MUSHROOM SAUCE 

Three tablespoonfuls Kitchen Boquet; one-third cupful butter; 
one-third cupful flour; one teaspoonful salt; dash cayenne; one tea- 
spoonful onion juice ; two cupfuls milk ; one can mushrooms. Melt the 
butter, add flour and milk gradually, stirring all the while. When 
cooked, add the salt, cayenne, onion and kitchen boquet. Drain and 
chop mushrooms ; add to sauce and cook three minutes. 

TOMATO CELERY SAUCE 

Two teaspoonfuls kitchen boquet; one quart tomatoes; one tea- 
spoonful sugar; three pepper-corns; one tablespoonful butter; one 
head of celery ; one onion ; one green pepper ; one bay leaf ; four cloves ; 
salt and pepper; one tablespoonful flour. Place the tomatoes in a 
saucepan ; add the celery cut up into inch lengths ; the onion slices and 
spices. Simmer slowly for twenty minutes, pass through a sieve; 
return to the fire, and stew down until you have one cupful of puree. 
Blend the flour and butter together in a double boiler; stir in the 
tomato-celery puree, and stir until smooth and thick; season with 
kitchen boquet, salt and pepper. If too thick, add a little water or 
stock. This is fine to serve with meat loaf, salmon loaf or rice cro- 
quettes, etc. 

SAUCE BERNAISE 

Heat a granite saucepan slightly and break into it four eggs. 
Beat the eggs briskly over a slow fire, but do not let them boil; mix 
four tablespoonfuls hot water and two tablespoonfuls beef extract, 
and as the eggs begin to cook stir in the mixture, adding the juice of 
one lemon, one tablespoonful onion juice and one teaspoonful Tarra- 
gon vinegar, salt and pepper. When this is well mixed pour on beef- 
steak and serve. 

MINT SAUCE 

One bunch mint ; one tablespoonful sugar ; three-fourths cup vine- 
gar. Rinse the mint in cold water ; chop very fine ; dissolve the sugar 
in the vinegar ; add the mint ; let it stand for one hour to infuse before 
using. If the same is wanted hot, heat the vinegar and stir in the mint 
just before using. 

52 



Sauces 

niiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiitttiiiiiiiiiiiiifiiiiiiiiiiitiiiiiiiiiiiiitiiiiiiiuiiiiiiiiniiniiitiiiiiiHiiiHiiitiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiHiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiitiiiiiiiiiiiititiiiiiiuiiiiiiiiiiiititiiiiiiiiitB 

SAUCE ALLEMANDE Mrs. Bertha C. Hansen 

Four tablespoonfuls butter; four tablespoonfuls flour; one egg 
yolk; one cup white stock; one cup cream; one-half teaspoonful salt; 
few grains pepper. Make same as a thin white sauce. Just before 
serving, add the yolk of one egg and cook slightly. 

HORSE-RADISH DRESSING 

FOR ROAST BEEF Mrs. E. D. Gotchy 

To a cup of grated horse-radish, add two tablespoonfuls of sugar; 
one-half teaspoonful salt; one-half cup thick, sweet, cream. Mix the 
ingredients thoroughly, then add vinegar to taste. 



53 



Sauces 

■IlIllllllIIllltllllllflllliniTIIIIIIIItltllllllllllllltllltlttlllllllltltlllllttUIIIIflltllllltlllllltlllllllllllttlltllllllltltlllllltlllllflllllltllltllllllMtllttltlltllllltfllttllltltlllllllllfflttlllllltltltll 



54 



VEGETABLES 



Oh, muckle is the powerful grace 
That lies in herbs." 



A PORTO RICAN DINNER Mrs. G. W. Plummer 

One quart cooked red kidney beans (canned beans are good and 
save fire) ; four good sized ripe tomatoes (or the solid tomatoes from 
a can); four medium sized onions; four green sweet peppers; one- 
fourth pound nut meats (pecans, almonds or English walnuts are best) ; 
two dozen green olives; salt to taste. 

Process : If tomatoes are fresh, skin and put in a chopping bowl 
with onions and peppers, which last should have seeds and white fiber 
first removed ; chop all until about size of a lima bean. Put into skillet 
a heaping tablespoonful of drippings, from ham or bacon preferred; 
when hot add chopped vegetables and cook until all are soft and well 
blended. About fifteen minutes before serving add nut meats and 
olives cut into strips. In the meantime, heat the beans by themselves ; 
turn all together and cook ten minutes, when it is ready to serve. 

Service: Half an hour before time to serve, wash well, enough 
rice to make a border around your chop platter. Put it into gallopin 
boiling water, quite heavily salted ; water should be at least four times 
quantity of rice. Boil until barely done; drain in a collander and 
set to drain in the mouth of the oven for five minutes. 

Dispose around the edge of the platter; pour the bean mixture 
(which should be moist), in the middle, garnish with a wreath of pars- 
ley between rice and beans. 

This, with a green salad and French dressing is an abundant and 
satisfying dinner. No meat should be served. 

STUFFED POTATOES 

Select large uniform sized potatoes. Scrub them with a vegetable 
brush. Bake in a hot oven, the temperature of the oven should be such 
that it will bake, a potato of medium size in forty to forty-five minutes. 
Remove a thin slice from the side lengthwise of potatoes; scoop out 
the pulp, pass through the ricer; add two tablespoonfuls of butter or 
bacon fat; moisten with hot milk; add two tablespoonfuls each finely 
chopped chives or onion. Season with salt and pepper, beat thor- 
oughly and return to the shells, using pastry bag and tube, brush over 
with slightly beaten egg and return to oven to brown delicately. 

55 



Vegetables 

■iiiitiiiiiiiiiiitiiiiiitifiiiiiJiiiiiiniiiiiiiiiiiiiifiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiitiiiiiiiiiitiiiifiiitiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiifitiiiiiiiiiiiiintiiiiiB 

A ' ' DIFFERENT ' ' DINNER Mrs. G. W. Plummer 

A fine, firm head of cauliflower; enough rice to form a border 
for your chop platter; four tablespoonfuls grated or shredded ripe 
cheese; one teacupful rich milk; two tablespoonfuls bacon drippings. 
Garnish with blanched lettuce leaves, canned pimento and parsley. 

Process : "Wash, trim and put to boil in a large granite or alum- 
inum kettle, the whole head of cauliflower in plenty of salted water. 
Do not cover. "When about half done, put into an iron skillet two table- 
spoonfuls of bacon drippings and when smoking hot turn in the dry 
rice which has previously been well washed and dried on a clean 
towel. Parch this rice in the drippings, stirring constantly until a 
golden brown. Then dip the water in which the cauliflower boils, 
spoonful by spoonful, into the rice ; as it absorbs the water add more 
until the rice is puffed, dry and thoroughly done; a little onion may 
be cooked in with rice if liked. In the meantime make a fine, thick 
white sauce, using butter and twice the quantity of flour; cook but 
do not brown; add milk and rub smooth; add shredded cheese, red 
pepper and salt; cook to a smooth masking sauce. 

Service: Put cauliflower, unbroken, in center of platter; mask 
with sauce and sprinkle with grated cheese. Around the flower dis- 
pose the lettuce in such a way as to simulate a growing head. Encircle 
this with border of rice and put an outside border of parsley. The 
pimento should be cut in strips and laid up the sides of flower inside 
lettuce leaves. 

SUNDAY NIGHT SUPPER DISH Mrs. G. W. Plummer 

Wash round, solid, medium sized tomatoes (one for each ser- 
vice) and cut in half but do not skin. Insert slivers of onion in each 
half tomato on cut side. Dip cut side in egg, beaten with a little 
water, seasoned with salt and paprika; then in rolled bread crumbs 
or rolled shredded wheat biscuit. Two tablespoonfuls of bacon drip- 
pings heated to a smoke in skillet or on cake griddle. Put in tomatoes, 
cut side down, and fry until a golden brown; then turn carefully; 
reduce heat and cook gently until cooked but not broken. Remove 
to platter and place on each a generous spoonful of the following 
sauce : 

Sauce: Add dripping to that in skillet in which tomatoes were 
cooked to make two tablespoonfuls; add four tablespoonfuls flour; 
one thin slice of onion and cook four minutes; add two cups milk; 
celery salt, salt and pepper and when incorporated add one-half cup- 
ful grated or shredded cheese and cook until smooth. 

CUBAN RICE Mrs. W. F. Barnard 

One and one-half pounds fresh pork, ground ; one onion, chopped ; 
one egg ; salt and pepper. Make into little round balls. One quart of 
tomatoes, strained. Boil meat balls in tomato juice for one hour. Cook 
rice and serve as a vegetable, pouring meat and tomatoes around it on 
platter. 

56 



Vegetables 

llllllllllllllllllltllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllttlKllllIIIIIIIIIIIItlllllllllltlllllllllllllllllllfllllllllllllllllllllltllllltlllllllllllltllllllllUllllIIlIIIIIIIllIIIIllllllllllililU 

INDIAN VEGETABLE CURRY Mrs. Jean Wallace Butler 

One pound can baked beans; one pound can lima beans; one 
pound can green string beans; one pound can wax beans; two pound 
can tomatoes; eight large onions; one heaping teaspoonful Cross & 
Blackweirs curry; one tablespoonful salad oil. Remove all vegetables 
from cans ; heat the beans in large cooking vessel ; heat tomatoes sepa- 
rately, seasoning very strongly with salt and papper. Slice onions and 
boil in water. When sufficiently cooked, add onions and tomatoes to 
other vegetables. Pry curry in salad oil to a nice brown. Add to the 
vegtables, and simmer half an hour. While this is simmering, boil 
rice to serve on plate with curry. This serves ten people. In winter 
time, for large family you can double recipe, and keep frozen. Better 
every time reheated. No bread, butter or anything else is served with 
this, except Indian chutney. 

POTATO PUFF BALLS 

Scoop out the inside of hot baked potatoes, force the pulp through 
a ricer, there should be two cups. Add two tablespoonfuls butter; 
moisten with rich cream ; season with salt and paprika, while beating 
constantly; add one slightly beaten egg yolk and one-half teaspoon- 
ful finely chopped parsley; cook one minute, stirring constantly. 
Remove from range and fold in the stiffly beaten white of one egg. 
Shape in balls and roll in finely chopped seasoned nut meats; place 
on buttered pan and brown delicately in the oven. Arrange around 
broiled whitefish. 

POTATO FLUFF Mrs. W. D. Hurlbut 

Pass enough hot boiled potatoes through a ricer to make three 
cups ; season with pepper, salt, a big piece of butter aud half a cup of 
cream ; beat an egg very light, beat it in the potato ; turn into a but- 
tered baking dish; sprinkle bread crumbs on top and bake until 
browned. 

STUFFED SWEET POTATOES Mrs. Louis Geyler 

Bake three large sweet potatoes; cut in halves lengthwise; care- 
fully scoop out pulp and press through a ricer. Reserve the shells. 
Season with one-half teaspoonful of salt; one-fourth teaspoonful 
paprika; one-half tablespoonful powdered sugar; three tablespoonfuls 
butter; and one-third cup hot cream or rich milk. Beat them thor- 
oughly, then stir in one-half cup finely chopped almonds, blanched; 
refill shells. Cut marshmallows in four pieces and cover each portion. 
Bake in a moderate oven until heated through and marshmallows are 
delicately browned. 

FRENCH FRIED SWEET POTATOES Mrs. A. M. Cameron 

Wash and peel very large sweet potatoes and cut lengthwise; 
as you would white potatoes; fry in the same manner and sprinkle 
lightly with salt ; serve at once. 

57 



Vegetables 

*iiiiitiiiiitiiiiiiiiiiiitifiiiiiiiiiiitiiiiiiiiiiiii((itiiiiiiiifiiiiiiiiiiiiiiatiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiitfiiiiiiiiiiitiifiiiiitiiiiiiiii(fiiii(iiiiiiiiiiiitiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiii]iiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiintiiBiitxt 

SWEET POTATO CROQUETTES 

Two eupfuls of mashed sweet potatoes; one cupful of hot milk; 
two eggs; one teaspoonful salt; two tablespoonfuls of butter; bread 
crumbs; one tablespoonful of butter. Beat the potatoes and milk, 
gradually stir in the melted butter; salt and one of the eggs well 
beaten. Form into croquette balls; dip in beaten egg and bread 
crumbs. Fry in deep fat until golden brown. Drain on paper and 
serve with cream sauce. 

POTATO SURPRISE 

Prepare a rich mashed potato in the usual way, using six medium- 
sized potatoes and hot cream instead of milk. Beat until fluffy, then 
add one tablespoonful each finely chopped chives or onion juice and 
one tablespoonful parsley ; add one-third cup finely minced ham. Beat 
again and turn into a buttered baking dish, piling it well in the 
center. Cover lightly with buttered cracker crumbs, well seasoned 
with salt and pepper. Bake in oven fifteen minutes. Serve in baking 
dish. 

MASHED POTATOES WITH GREEN PEPPERS 

AND ONIONS Mrs. W. D. Hurlbut 

Pass through a ricer six large hot boiled potatoes; add two 
tablespoonfuls butter and gradually one-third cupful hot thin cream; 
season with salt and whip until light and fluffy. Parboil a green pep- 
per (removing seeds and veins) eight minutes; drain and chop fine; 
mix with two tablespoonfuls finely chopped onion; add gradually to 
potatoes and heat again. Serve immediately with roast goose, duck 
or pork. 

JUMBALAYA Mrs. M. T. Wagner 

One minced onion fried in butter; one-half cup of ham minced; 
one cup of rice ; four cups of tomato juice (if there is not juice enough 
in a can of tomatoes to make the required quantity, add water) ; one 
teaspoonful curry powder; one teaspoonful thyme; a few bay leaves 
broken up fine; three teaspoonfuls salt and a few grains of cayenne. 
Mix all together and bake one and one-quarter hours. 

SAVORY RICE Mrs. W. R. McGhee 

Cook one cupful rice, well washed, in three quarts boiling salted 
water until partly done ; drain ; add to rice two eupfuls well seasoned 
chicken broth ; put into double boiler and let it steam until rice is soft 
and stock is absorbed. Stir in one-fourth cup butter and one table- 
spoonful finely chopped chives or onion ; if onion is used then add one- 
half tablespoonful chopped parsley. 

EASY RICE CROQUETTES Mrs. C. A. Carscadin 

Two cups boiled rice (salted) ; one beaten egg; grated rind of one 
lemon ; add to rice, roll in flour ; fry in hot lard. Lay on brown paper 
and sprinkle well with sugar. Have rice as soft as possible. 

58' 



Vegetables 

aiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiitiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiJiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiitiitiitiiiitiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiitititiiiiiiiiiifiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiitiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiitiiiiiiiiitiitiuiB 

STUFFED TOMATOES WITH SHRIMP Mrs. J. E. Kelly 

Use six large tomatoes, and scrape out pulp ; put little butter in 
pan and fry the pulp with one small onion, cut fine, and one can of 
shrimps; add one egg (beaten), and enough bread crumbs to make soft 
filling. Season with salt and pepper. Fill tomatoes, and sprinkle dry 
bread crumbs, or cracker crumbs, over top and small piece of butter 
on each. Bake fifteen minutes and serve hot. 

RICE WITH TOMATOES AND GREEN PEPPERS 

Finely chop one Bermuda onion, two green peppers ; mix with one 
cup minced raw ham. Saute ten minutes (without browning) in four 
tablespoonfuls butter. Add one cup of washed rice and three cups 
of chicken stock or beef broth. Simmer one-half hour stirring occa- 
sionally with a fork. Then add four tomatoes peeled and chopped; 
one-half tablespoonful salt ; a few grains cayenne and one-fourth tea- 
spoonful paprika. Cover and cook over hot water until rice is tender. 
Serve as a vegetable. 

SPAGHETTI— ITALIAN STYLE Mrs. J. H. Shanley 

One package spaghetti, unbroken, boiled until tender, then let 
cold water run through it. Fill iron spider with sliced onions and 
cook until tender, not brown; add two small green peppers, chopped 
fine ; one can mushrooms and one pound chopped steak. Cook together 
long enough to season, about ten minutes. Put in with the spaghetti 
in a baking dish, and add one quart tomatoes, strained. Mix thor- 
oughly and sprinkle with grated cheese, viz: layer of spaghetti, then 
cheese, etc. Also put cheese on top to form crust. Bake until heated 
through. 

ITALIAN SPAGHETTI Mrs. C. A. Jennings 

One heaping tablespoonful butter; two medium-sized onions; one 
bead of garlic ; one can tomatoes ; two-thirds package spaghetti. Cut 
onions and garlic fine and put in saucepan to fry with butter a light 
brown. Add the tomatoes, strained and let simmer one hour. Put 
spaghetti in large vessel of salted boiling water and keep boiling 
fast for forty minutes. Have hot dish ready; into this put spaghetti 
and tomatoes and a small cup of grated Herkimer or other snappy 
American cheese. Mix thoroughly; serve with small dish of same 
cheese to springle over spaghetti at table. 

SCALLOPED TOMATOES Alice Clock 

One No. 3 size tin of tomatoes ; one medium-sized onion ; six slices 
bacon ; two cups fresh bread crums. Chop the onion and bacon, fry to 
crisp orown; place first a layer of tomatoes, then a layer of bread 
crumbs, then a layer of onion and bacon; over which salt and pepper 
is shaken. Repeat layers until all material is used. Bake forty-five 
minutes in moderate oven. 

59 



Vegetables 

niiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiii iiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiuiiiiiiiiiiiiniiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiii mimiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiimn 

ITALIAN MACARONI Mrs. W. I. Clock 

One-half pound streaky salt pork, no bones, very little lean meat ; 
three onions; a suspicion of garlic; one teacup of chopped parsley; 
one No. 3 can of tomatoes; four heaping teaspoonfuls granulated 
sugar ; one teaspoonful salt ; one-fourth teaspoonful pepper ; two table- 
spoonfuls of grated Parmesan cheese; one pound of spaghetti. Put 
finely chopped pork, onions and parsley into frying pan and fry to nice 
brown; add sugar, salt, pepper and cheese. At same time the above 
is cooking have the tomatoes heating in enameled saucepan ; also have 
water boiling ready to put spaghetti in, for it must actually boil twen- 
ty-five minutes to be tender. After the tomatoes have cooked about 
ten minutes, put through sieve and add to pork and onions and let all 
simmer while spaghetti cooks. Put spaghetti in coilander to drain. 
Serve by placing a layer of spaghetti in deep dish, then sauce and 
cheese, and so on each layer until all material is used ; serve very hot. 

MACARONI Mrs. Gussie Enos 

Boil macaroni one-half hour. Put one pint milk ; one and one- 
half cups grated cheese; one tablespoonful butter; one tablespoonful 
flour; salt and pepper together and boil all until smooth. Put layer 
of macaroni and layer of sauce with sauce on top. Bake one-half hour. 

HOMINY CROQUETTES 

To one-half cup hominy (taken from a carton) ; add two cups 
hot stewed and strained tomato pulp; cook in a double boiler until 
hominy is tender. Stir in two tablespoonfuls butter; three-fourths 
teaspoonful salt; one-fourth teaspoonful paprika. Spread mixture on 
a plate to cool. Then shape into balls the size of small lemons, roll 
in crumbs, dip in egg and again in crumbs and fry in hot deep fat. 
Drain on brown paper and serve with cheese sauce. 

HOMINY GRITS Mrs. W. D. Hurlbut 

Put two cupfuls of milk and two of water into a double boiler; 
add a little salt and one cupful of hominy grits; let boil hard one hour; 
do not stir. The moisture will all be absorbed and it will be light and 
creamy. Use as a vegetable or in place of potatoes. 

TOMATOES, CREOLE STYLE 

Wash and wipe the desired number of medium-sized tomatoes. 
Cut a slice from the blossom ends, scoop out pulp, sprinkle with salt 
in the inside, invert on plate, let stand one hour. Melt two table- 
spoonfuls butter, add two tablespoonfuls flour mixed with one-half 
teaspoonful salt, one-fourth teaspoonful paprika and few grains cay- 
enne. Stir until blended, then pour on slowly one-half cup cream. 
Stir until smooth and add one cup green corn, cut from cob, and mixed 
with one-half tablespoonful each red and green pepper, finely chopped. 
Flavor delicately with onion juice. Fill tomatoes, cover with buttered 
crumbs and bake in moderate oven until tomatoes and corn are tender. 

60 



Vegetables 

niiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiitiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiifiiiiiiiiiifiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiifiiiiiiiiitiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiniiiiiiiiiiiiiiifiiitiiiiiiiiiiiiitiiitttiitiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiititiiitiiiiiititiiiiiiiiiiiii 

TOMATOES ON HALF SHELL Mrs. R. McNeil 

Cut tomatoes in half without peeling. Place them in baking 
dish. Put in a piece of butter on each, and dust with salt and pepper. 
Put in oven and cook until tender. Have ready squares of toasted 
bread. On each place a half tomato and pour around white sauce 
and serve hot. 

BAKED TOMATOES Mrs. W. 0. King 

Select nice smooth tomatoes; slice off top and remove pulp and 
seeds. Rub this through collander. Add one-half cup of each bread 
and cracker crumbs, pepper, salt and minced onion to tomatoes with 
a little butter. Stuff tomatoes, place top on, using toothpicks; bake 
one hour in a moderate oven. 

FRIED TOMATOES Mrs. C. S. Junge 

Green or ripe tomatoes may be used. Slice and dip in flour. Place 
in skillet with plenty of bacon fat and a little butter. Fry until brown 
and lift carefully onto a platter. In the remaining fat stir a table- 
spoonful of flour, then pour a cup and a half of milk. When creamed, 
turn over tomatoes and serve. 

BAKED NOODLES Mrs. E. Lewis Phelps 

One box of home made noodles, boil until tender then drain. But- 
ter a baking dish; put in a layer of noodles; sprinkle with grated 
cheese and seasoning ; then another layer of noodles ; then two cups of 
cooked boiled ham chopped fine; chopped green pepper and chopped 
onion ; put the remainder of noodles on top and add cheese, etc. Beat 
up four or five eggs; add milk enough to cover all the noodles. Set 
pan into pan of water and bake slowly until eggs are done. Can add 
buttered cracker crumbs on top if liked. 

CORN PUDDING Helen M. Bailey 

Six ears corn; two eggs; one-half pint milk; pinch salt; pinch 
pepper; cut corn from cob, beat eggs, and add milk, eggs and sea- 
soning to corn. Bake until light brown. 

CORN OYSTERS Mrs. E. S. Smith 

Mix one pint of grated corn; three tablespoonfuls of milk; one 
teacup of flour; a piece of butter the size of an egg. Drop by des- 
sertspoonfuls into a little hot butter. Fry on both sides. 

CORN CROQUETTES 

One cupful of stewed or canned corn; one-half cupful of dried 
bread crumbs ; one-half cupful of milk ; one beaten egg ; one teaspoon- 
ful of salt; one teaspoonful of baking powder; one tablespoonful of 
flour. Chop corn, mix with bread crumbs, milk and other ingredients. 
Drop from spoon into deep fat and fry until light brown. 

ei 



Vegetables 

■iiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiifiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiitiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiitiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiitiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiisiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiin 

GREEN PEPPERS STUFFED WITH RICE, 
TOMATOES AND NUT MEATS 

Cut a slice from the stem ends of six medium-sized mild, green 
peppers; remove seeds and veins; parboil in boiling water eight min- 
utes. Drain. Have ready one and one-half cups hot boiled rice ; mix 
with three-fourths cup thick tomato puree ; add one cup chopped Eng- 
lish walnut meats. Season with salt, pepper and a few grains of cay- 
enne; add one teaspoonful each finely chopped parsley and chives or 
onion. Fill peppers. Arrange on buttered dripping pan; cover with 
buttered cracker crumbs and bake in oven until heated through and 
crumbs are brown. 

GREEN PEPPERS STUFFED WITH ONIONS 

Parboil six green peppers eight minutes (discarding seeds and 
veins) in boiling water to cover. Drain, keep warm. Cover one-half 
dozen silver skin onions with boiling water, heat to boiling point and 
drain. Cover again, with boiling salted water and cook until tender, 
drain and finely chop, mix with one cup soft bread crumbs, add three 
tablespoonfuls melted butter, season highly with salt, pepper and one- 
half teaspoonful finely chopped parsley. Fill prepared peppers (if too 
dry add one tablespoonful cream) with mixture, cover with- buttered 
crumbs, set them in buttered gem pans and bake in oven until peppers 
are tender and crumbs are brown. 

GREEN PEPPERS STUFFED WITH CORN Mrs. T. D. Caliger 

Select sweet green peppers of medium size ; cut a thick slice from 
stem ends; remove seeds and veins. Soak in salt water one hour, 
drain, and fill with following mixture. Put three cups of canned corn 
into a saucepan, with two tablespoonfuls finely chopped green pep- 
pers, butter and one tablespoonful of onion juice. Simmer slowly 
fifteen minutes, stirring often to prevent burning. Cover tops of pep- 
pers with buttered bread crumbs, and bake one-half hour in moderate 
oven. 

EGG PLANT AND SHRIMP Mrs. Ada Woods 

Boil a whole egg plant, cutting off the stem end. When done 
take off skin and put the inside to drain. Put a cup of stale bread 
crumbs, a grated onion, salt and pepper, tablespoonful parsley and a 
clove of garlic minced fine, in a skillet with two tablespoonfuls bacon 
drippings, and fry until brown ; add this to the egg plant, put in two 
dozen shrimps, broken up, and when all is well mixed put in the oven 
and brown. 

FRENCH FRIED EGG PLANT Mrs. A. M. Cameron 

Prepare egg plant in the usual way; drain and cut as you would 
potatoes for French fry ; sprinkle with salt, pepper and flour ; place in 
a frying basket and fry strips until crisp and a pretty brown; drain 
on brown paper. 

62 



Vegetables 

iiuiiiiimmiiiiiiimiiimiiiiiiiiimimmiiimiiiiiuuiimuuiimiiiuiuuiiiiiiw 

BAKED STUFFED EGG PLANT 

Cut slice from stem end ; reserve for cover, scoop out inside, leav- 
ing a wall one-fourth inch thick, sprinkle inside with salt and pepper, 
finely chop pulp. Cook one-half onion, finely chopped, in one table- 
spoonful butter three minutes without browning, add three fresh mush- 
rooms, finely chopped, four tablespoonfuls finely chopped lean raw 
ham, season with salt, pepper; cook five minutes, stirring constantly. 
Add egg plant pulp, three-fourths cup soft bread crumbs, one-half 
teaspoonful finely chopped parsley. Mix well, refill shell, cover with 
buttered crumbs. Bake in moderate oven forty-five minutes. 

NEW STRING BEANS Mrs. W. D. Hurlbut 

Cut two thin slices of bacon crosswise in narrow shreds, using 
shears for this purpose. Saute to a delicate brown. Add two cups 
hot, cooked, well-drained string beans and one-half tablespoonful 
grated onion or onion juice. Shake the frying pan to thoroughly mix 
the ingredients, season with salt and pepper. Turn into hot serving 
dish. 

CREAMED PEAS AS AN ENTREE Mrs. C. A. Carscadin 

Cut with a cookie cutter a round of bread from a thick slice, then 
a ring with a doughnut cutter. Dip in melted butter and toast a deli- 
cate brown in the oven. Fill them with peas in cream sauce. 

FRENCH FRIED ONIONS Bertha Z. Bishee 

Peel onions, slice and separate rings. Beat an egg, white and 
yolk together ; salt and pepper to taste and stir in enough flour — about 
a tablespoonful — to make a thin batter. Pour over the onion rings, 
making sure that they are well coated, and fry a handful at a time 
in deep fat, which must be hot enough to brown quickly. Drain and 
serve covered with a napkin. 

BAKED SPANISH ONION Alice Clock 

Three Spanish onions; two cups of fresh bread crumbs; one pint 
milk; one heaping tablespoonful butter. Take greased baking dish. 
Place alternate layers of sliced onion, and bread crumbs, seasoning 
each layer with salt and pepper. When materials are used up, pour 
over the pint of milk ; and the butter cut in small pieces is placed on 
the top last. Bake slowly, until onion can be pierced easily. 

SCALLOPED CABBAGE Miss Kennedy 

Cut one-half of boiled cabbage in small pieces ; sprinkle with salt, 
pepper and one finely chopped pimento ; pour over one and one-fourth 
cups thin white sauce, mixed with one-third cup grated cheese. Mix 
well and turn into a buttered baking dish; cover with buttered and 
seasoned cracker crumbs. Place in oven and bake until crumbs are 
brown. 

63 



Vegetables 

■iiiiiiiiiiiiiittiitiiiiiiiiiiiitiiiiiiifiiiiitiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiitiitiiiiitiiiiiitiiiititiiiiiiiiiiitaiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiitiiiiitiiiiiiiiiiiiiiitiitiiiitttiiiiiiiiitiiiiiitiiiiti 

CABBAGE ROLLS Mrs. C. S. Junge 

Parboil in salt water the large leaves of a cabbage. Take them 
from the water and place singly on the cake board and pepper them. 
Mix half and half, chopped beef and pork and season. Make into rolls 
twice the size of an egg. Round these roll several cabbage leaves and 
fasten with tooth picks. Place these in the skillet with two tablespoon- 
fuls of bacon fat or lard with a little butter. Turn in a small amount 
of water and cook covered over a slow fire. When water cooks off 
add more in small quantities for nearly an hour. Remove tooth picks 
and serve. 

CAULIFLOWER AU GRATIN Miss June Baumgardner 

Boil cauliflower until tender; separate so that a flower will be in 
each ramekin. Make a white sauce and grate three tablespoonfuls 
yellow American cheese in it; when the cheese is melted pour over 
the vegetable in ramekin, put a few buttered bread crumbs on top 
and put in the oven to brown. 

PARSNIP SAUTE 

Wash parsnips and cook until tender in boiling water. Drain 
and cover with cold water; with the hands slip off the skins. Mash 
and rub through a strainer. Season pulp with salt, pepper and butter, 
shape in flat cakes and dredge with flour. Saute a golden brown in 
equal parts hot butter and chicken fat. 

FRIED SUMMER SQUASH 

Wash, wipe and cut tender squash in one-half inch slices, sprinkle 
with salt, pepper and dredge with flour, dip in egg y then in fine cracker 
crumbs, repeat and fry in deep, hot fat, drain and serve. 

CREAMED CELERY CABBAGE Mrs. H. Clay Calhoun 

Cut celery cabbage in inch lengths, boil until tender in salted 
water; drain and pour over a rich cream sauce. 

BAKED, STUFFED ARTICHOKES Mrs. Francis A. Sieber 

Six artichokes; four ounces fat pork; two cups chopped mush- 
rooms; two tablespoonfuls chopped shallots; one teaspoonful minced 
parsley; one tablespoonful flour; one tablespoonful butter; one-half 
cup spinach sauce ; one-half teaspoonful salt, a little pepper, nutmeg ; 
one cup broth; one glass white wine. Prepare artichokes, boil thirty 
minutes and drain. Mince pork and fry with shallots ; add mushrooms 
and parsley and simmer ten minutes. Blend with it the flour mixed 
with butter; add Spanish sauce and seasoning. Stuff artichokes, and 
tie each with string ; brown outside in a little olive oil, add the broth 
and wine. Cover and cook forty minutes in moderate oven. When 
they are ready to serve remove the strings and arrange on a hot 
platter and pour the sauce over them. Garnish with a whole mush- 
room on top of each. 

64 



Vegetables 

vfiiiiiiiifiiiiiiiiiiiitiiiiiiiiiiiiiitifiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiitiitiiiiiiiittiiiiiiiiiiiiitiiiiiiiitiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiniiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiitiiiitiiiiiiiiiiiitiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiia 

MUSHROOMS Mrs. H. P. E. Hafer 

Peal one pound fresh mushrooms. Fry in butter slowly for three- 
quarters of an hour. Add two cups of soup stock and one-half cup of 
cream and thicken with flour. Serve on toast. 

STUFFED MUSHROOMS Mrs. K. Larson 

Brush twelve large mushrooms. Remove stems. Chop finely, and 
peel caps. Melt three tablespoonfuls butter, and one-half tablespoon- 
ful finely chopped shallot, and chopped stems. Then cook ten minutes. 
Add one and one-half tablespoonfuls of flour, chicken stock to mois- 
ten, a slight grating of nutmeg, and one-half teaspoonful finely 
chopped parsley, salt and pepper to taste. Cool mixture and fill 
caps, well rounding over top. Cover with buttered cracker crumbs, 
and bake fifteen minutes in a hot oven. 

STEWED MUSHROOMS Mrs. E. R. Hornig 

Peel and wash mushrooms, cut one or two onions very fine and 
stew in a tablespoonful of butter, add mushrooms, season with pepper 
and salt and sprinkle over a little flour. Cook about fifteen minutes 
and serve hot. 

STEWED CUCUMBERS Mrs. E. R. Hornig 

Pare and cut lengthwise in quarters, remove seeds. Put into hot 
butter, or finely cut bacon, season with salt and pepper. Cook about 
fifteen minutes over a slow fire, or until they appear glossy. Add a 
teaspoonful vinegar or a little sour cream. Serve hot. 

FRIED CUCUMBERS Mrs. William H. Fahrney 

Peel and slice, medium thick, large cucumbers; dip in batter and 
cracker crumbs and fry in hot fat until brown. 

KOHLRABBI Mrs. E. R. Hornig 

Take three bunches of kohlrabbi, remove hard leaves, strip ten- 
der leaves from their ribs, cut them up fine. Peel kohlrabbi, cut in 
slices quarter of an inch thick, and add tender green leaves. Put on 
to boil with cold water, just enough to cover, until tender. Season 
with pepper and salt, blend a teaspoonful of flour with butter, add to 
vegetable, and stew a few minutes longer. Serve hot. 



65 



Vegetables 

nimiiiiiiimiiiiiMiiuiiiHMMHiMiHiiHiimimMiMiiiiiiMiiiiiiiiiHiiiminiiiiiimiiiiMiiiiimiMiiimiiiiiiiiiiM 



66 



SALADS 



t( j 



Twould tempt the dying anchorite to eat; 
Back to the world, he f d turn his weary soul, 
And plunge his fingers in the salad bowl." 



TEA SALAD Mrs. Frederick Dunn 

Upon a leaf of head lettuce, place a round of boiled ham. (One 
slice of ham will make two rounds.) Then place a thick slice of 
tomato ; and next a half a hard boiled egg, cut crosswise ; then a ring 
of sweet green peppers; and over all pour Thousand Island dress- 
ing. Garnish with parsley and radish rosettes. Two such portions 
served on a salad plate makes an appetizing dish, or it can be served 
on a large platter at the table, or passed. 

PERFECTION SALAD Mrs. Louis Geyler 

One envelope Knox's sparkling gelatine; one-half cup cold water; 
one-half cup mild vinegar; one pint boiling water; one teaspoonful 
salt; one cup finely shredded celery; one cucumber chopped finely; 
one bunch radishes chopped ; one green pepper chopped ; one-half cup 
sugar; juice of one lemon; little onion juice; seeds of one pomegran- 
ite. Soak gelatine in cold water five minutes; add vinegar; lemon 
juice ; onion juice ; boiling water ; sugar and salt. Strain and when be- 
ginning to set, add ingredients. Turn into ring mold and chill. Serve 
on lettuce leaves, garnish with asparagus tips in center and tomatoes 
quartered around it. Use cooked mayonnaise as dressing. 

CHICKEN SALAD Mrs. Jarvis Weed 

To the white meat and a very little bit of the dark meat of a 
chicken add one cupful blanched almonds, a cupful of celery and about 
six slices of Hawaiian pineapple shredded. Cover with an oil mayon- 
naise and mix well. 

FROZEN FRUIT SALAD Mrs. C. H. Bushnell 

Three cakes blue label cream cheese ; one-half pint mayonnaise 
dressing; one pint whipped cream; one ten-cent bottle maraschino 
cherries ; one can white cherries ; one can pineapple cut fine ; one-half 
cup pecan nuts. Beat cheese to cream, mix with fruit, put in melon 
mold and freeze about three hours. Serve on lettuce with mayonnaise. 

67 



Salads 

itiiiiinriiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiitiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiitiiiiitiiitiiiiiiiiitiiiiiiiiiiiitiiiifffiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiitiiiiinittiiiiiiiitiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiifiHHiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiifiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiii 

FROZEN SALAD Mrs. A. E. Kaltenbrun 

Five eggs beaten separately. One cup of vinegar ; one cup of milk 
and cream mixed ; one tablespoonful butter ; one-half teaspoonful mus- 
tard ; one-fourth teaspoonful salt ; one cup of sugar. Cook until thick. 
Let cool and add: two bottles whipping cream, any kind of fruit — 
preferably pineapple, oranges, peaches, etc., and freeze like a mousse. 
Baking powder can molds are splendid. Slice and serve with cherry on 
lettuce. 

FROZEN SALAD Mrs. Thos. D. Caliger 

Melt one tablespoonful butter and add yolks of two eggs, well 
beaten; mix three and one-half tablespoonfuls flour, three tablespoon- 
fuls sugar, one teaspoonful salt, one-third teaspoonful paprika, few 
grains cayenne. Add to the above mixture : Two-thirds cup milk; one- 
third cup vinegar. Cook same in double boiler until thick. Stir con- 
stantly ; when cooked, beat two minutes and chill ; then add two large 
tablespoonfuls of pineapple juice, four cupfuls of fruit cut fine, one 
bottle of whipped cream. Pack in ice and salt for three hours. Slice 
and serve on lettuce leaves. 

HAWAIIAN SALAD Mrs. C. A. Jennings 

One large or two small heads of lettuce; four medium sized 
tomatoes ; one alligator pear. Place lettuce leaves on plate with two 
or three slices of tomatoes. Cover with rings of alligator pear cut 
very thin. Serve with French dressing. 

French Dressing: Bub salad dish with bead of garlic (omit if 
objectionable). One-half teaspoonful salt, generous dash of paprika, 
four tablespoonfuls olive oil, one and one-half tablespoonfuls vinegar. 
This will serve six people. 

COTTAGE CHEESE AND PRUNE SALAD Mrs. Lyman Holsey 

One and one-fourth cups cottage cheese; one and one-half dozen 
medium sized prunes : one-fourth cup chopped hickory nuts ; one-fourth 
teaspoonful salt; dash paprika. Wash prunes. Remove pits and let 
soak over night. Mix remaining ingredients and stuff prunes with this 
mixture. Place on lettuce leaf and serve with French dressing. 

FRUIT SALAD Belle Hallen Molt 

One can pineapple cubed; one pound Malaga grapes seeded and 
cut in half ; one-fourth pound pecans ; one-fourth pound marshmallows 
cut in half. 

Dressing: Yolks of four eggs; one-half teaspoonful mustard; 
one-half teaspoonful salt : juice of one lemon ; one-half cup of cream ; 
boil in double boiler until thick and smooth. Let this get cold and 
add one-half pint whipped cream and pour over and mix thoroughly 
with fruit and let stand in icebox four hours before serving, giving 
the marshmallows a chance to become creamy. It will come out like a 
thick fluff. 

68 



Salads 

fiiiiiintiiiiiiiiiiiitiiriiitiiiiiiiitiifiiiiiiiiiiiittiiiiiiiiiiiuiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiitiMiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiitiiitiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiitiiiiiifiiiiiiiiiiiititiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiin 

FRUIT SALAD Mrs. C. B. Martin 

Into a quart of boiling water, put two packages of lemon jello; 
when thoroughly dissolved, strain; and when cool mix in one cup of 
chopped nuts ; one cup of green grapes, seeded and cut in half ; one cup 
of sliced pineapple ; one-half cup pimento ; two cups chopped cabbage ; 
stir and add to jello. 

FRUIT SALAD Mrs. J. Blackburn 

Green California grapes cut in half and seeded, a little celery cut 
in dice, pecan nuts cut in halves and a few quartered olives. Mix 
carefully with salad dressing and before serving add one-half cup of 
cream. 

BEST EVER SALAD Mrs. Kathryn M. Haskell 

One orange cut in quarters; one banana cut in small oblong 
pieces; one small can of pineapple cut in small pieces; one-half cup 
chopped English walnuts. 

Dressing: Two eggs beaten lightly; one-fourth cup pineapple 
juice ; one-fourth cup lemon juice ; one-half cup sugar ; cook until it 
thickens; let get cold and pour over fruit. 

TOMATO STUFFED WITH 

COTTAGE CHEESE AND ALMONDS Katherine Blade 

Peel nice ripe tomatoes ; scoop out the centers and fill with cottage 
cheese and minced almonds; place a spoonful mayonnaise on top and 
sprinkle minced almonds over the mayonnaise. 

TOMATO EN SURPRISE Mrs. J. E. Kelly 

Peel a nice large tomato and empty its contents ; take some cold 
slaw and celery hashed up very fine and mix it with mavonnaise dress- 
ing ; and add a pinch of salt and a dash of paprika. Mix well and fill 
the tomato with this mixture. The tomatoes must be served very cold. 

A NOVEL SALAD DISH Mrs. Campbell 

Take large and long cucumbers, cut them through the middle 
lengthwise, scrape out the inside and one has a pretty green boat in 
which to serve the salad. This is particularly pretty with lobster or 
shrimp salad on account of the contrast in the color. 

CHRISTMAS SALAD Marian Blade 

Two large grapefruit; one cup chopped celery; one cup chopped 
tart apples ; one-half cup hickory nut meats. Cut grapefruit in small 
pieces, being careful to remove all partitions and tough parts. Drain 
off juice, add celery, apples, nuts and mayonnaise. Toss together 
and serve on small leaves of cabbage. Garnish with round pieces of 
pimentos to resemble holly berries and pieces of green pepper cut to 
resemble holly leaves. 

69 



Salads 

■niiiiiiiiitiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiitiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiitiniitiiiiiiiiiiniiiiiiitiiiiiiiniiiiiitiiiiiiiiHiitiiiiiiiitiiiiiiiiii iiiiiimiiiiiiii iiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiimiiiii 

DATE AND PINEAPPLE SALAD Mrs. Lyman 

One pound dates ; four slices pineapple ; one cup nut meats. Wash 
the dates and steam for five minutes, dry in oven. Cut in half re- 
moving the seed. Chop nut meats. Cut pineapple into small cubes 
and mix with nut meats. Marinate with French dressing and stuff 
dates with mixture. Serve on lettuce leaf with Mayonnaise dressing. 

NEAPOLITAN SALAD Mrs. Lyman Holsey 

Two cups of cottage cheese; one-half cum cream; one-half tea- 
spoonful salt. Mix cheese with cream and salt. Color one-third of 
mixture with beet juice, pink. Mold in brick shaped tin which has 
been dipped in very cold water. Put in a layer of white, then the pink, 
then white. Chill thoroughly before turning out. Slice with very 
sharp knife dipped in hot water. Serve on lettuce leaves. 

ANCHOVIE BONNES-BOUCHES Mrs. Trumen 

Fillet some anchovies, cut them into thin strips, and put them on a 
dish with some shredded lettuce leaves, small radishes, some capers, 
thin slices of lemon and chopped parsley. Arrange all tastefully, 
season with lemon juice mixed with salad oil, garnish with stoned 
olives and the yolks and the whites of hard boiled eggs. 

CUCUMBER SALAD Mrs. J. T. Brown 

One cucumber cut very fine; one can grated pineapple; juice of 
four lemons ; sugar to taste ; two tablespoonfuls of gelatine. Cook the 
gelatine in a little water ; then add the juice of pineapple and lemons ; 
when it begins to set add the cucumber and pineapple. Put in molds, 
serve with a cream mayonnaise dressing. 

CUCUMBER SALAD Mrs. Maxwell 

Peel the cucumbers, cut them in thin slices without cutting the 
slices off, thus giving the appearance of a whole cucumber. Insert 
in each opening thin slices of radishes with the peel on, sliced to the 
exact size of the cucumber. Chill thoroughly and serve with French 
dressing. 

BUTTER BEAN SALAD Mrs. Lyman 

One pint butter beans (canned or cooked) ; one cup chopped cel- 
ery ; one tablespoonful finely chopped onion ; one tablespoonfud finely 
chopped green pepper. Mix ingredients together lightly. Garnish 
with grated cheese, and serve with French dressing. 

CREAM CHEESE Mrs. C. E. Ellis 

One Neuf achatel cheese ; one-half that quantity of butter ; one 
tablespoonful cream; dash of tabasco sauce or cayenne pepper. Tint 
pink with vegetable coloring ; roll in nuts, finely chopped. Serve on a 
lettuce leaf. 

70 



Salads 

tlMllllllllIIIilllllllltllltlllllllllllllllllllllltlltlllllllllllltlllllllllllMIIIlllIllltlllllllllllllllllllllllllllllMIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIlIIIIMIIIIIIIIIllllIIIIIIIIIIIIIItllllflllllllllllllllllllfllllllllllllllllllK 

BANANA SALAD 

Cut bananas lengthwise, roll them in mayonnaise then in ground 
peanuts and serve on lettuce leaves. 

NORMANDY SALAD Mrs. Theresa B. Orr 

One can French peas washed and strained. One-half pound Eng- 
lish walnuts cut the size of the peas. Mix dressing with nuts. Toss 
with peas and serve on lettuce leaves. 

PIQUANT RAISINS FOR SALADS Mrs. Lyman 

Carefully seed one-half pound cluster raisins. Rinse quickly in 
hot water and drain well. Add one-fourth cup cold water, let stand 
one or two hours, then simmer, covered, until raisins begin to plump. 
Add one tablespoonful of Tarragon vinegar and simmer until vinegar 
is absorbed. Remove from fire, place tea towel under cover to absorb 
moisture and let stand until cold. These raisins are used as garnish 
or component part of salads. 

CABBAGE SLAW Mrs. T. M. Butler 

Chop up very fine one-half of medium sized cabbage head, one 
stalk of celery and one sweet pepper, salt to season, add one-half cup 
of sugar and enough vinegar to moisten the mixture. 

POTATO SALAD 

Four cupfuls sliced boiled potatoes; one small onion, chopped; 
one-half cupful weak vinegar; one teaspoonful salt; one-eighth tea- 
spoonful pepper ; three tablespoonf uls olive oil ; two slices bacon diced ; 
four stalks celery; chopped lettuce; one tablespoonful minced pars- 
ley. Put onion in a large bowl, add salt and vinegar, and let stand 
ten minutes ; then slice in the potatoes while still warm and mix thor- 
oughly. Add oil, the celery cut fine, the bacon fried to a crisp, and 
the bacon fat ; then the parsley. Arrange on a bed of lettuce and gar- 
nish with beets and hard cooked eggs that have been chopped. 

POTATO SALAD Mrs. Campbell 

Cut cold boiled potatoes into dice and mix them with two minced 
raw onions and one tablespoonful minced parsley. Sprinkle with 
salt and pepper to taste, stir lightly together and add one small diced 
cucumber and a hard boiled egg, also diced. Set in ice box for an hour. 
"When ready to serve, stir in one cucumber cut into dice and mix with 
two-thirds cupful of salad dressing. Garnish with hard boiled eggs 
and olives. 

TO SERVE WITH A SALAD Mrs. C. A. Carscadin 

Cream together one cake Blue Label Cream Cheese, and one-quar- 
ter pound or less of Roquefort cheese ; fold into this one bottle of cream 
whipped stiff. This will serve eight people. 

71 



Salads 

■■iiiiiiiiiiiiitiiiiiiiiiiiiiiitiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiaiiiiiiiitiiiiitiiiiitiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiitiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiifiiiiiiiiiitiiiiiiiiiiifiiiiiiiiiitiiiitiiiiiiitiiiiiiiiiiiiiii 

HAM SALAD Edna Blade 

Chop one cupful of cooked ham very fine. Soak one tablespoon- 
ful of Knox gelatine in one tablespoonful of cold water for half an 
hour, then dissolve in one cupful of hot water with one teaspoonful 
each of onion juice and chopped parsley. Add to the ham and stir 
occasionally until the mixture thickens ; fold in one cupful of whipped 
cream and add one-half saltspoonful of paprika. Form it into little 
basket shapped molds and, when set, partly fill each little pink basket 
with mayonnaise. Surround with tiny lettuce leaves and simulate 
handles by two arched plumes of parsley. Placed on pretty plates, 
these form a delectable decorative fancy. If the larder does not con- 
tain the leftover meat, a can of deviled ham may be substituted. 

LOBSTER SALAD Mrs. Campbell 

Take a can of lobster, taking care to free it from any pieces of 
shell ; set it on ice while you make a good mayonnaise dressing and set 
that on ice also. Have ready one-half as much celery as you have 
lobster, cut into one-half inch lengths; mix lobster meat and celery 
together, sprinkle with salt and cayenne, then stir in one cup of may- 
onnaise. Arrange two or three lettuce leaves together to form a shell 
and put two or three teaspoonfuls of the salad on each. Garnish with 
hard boiled eggs cut lengthwise. 

OYSTER SALAD Miss Anna Brennan 

Allow six oysters to each person. Parboil them in their liquid 
and drain at once. When cool cut each one in four pieces. Break 
tender young leaves of lettuce and mix in equal parts with oysters. 
Pour over all the following dressing. Allow one egg to two persons. 
Boil eggs twenty minutes. When cold cut whites in slices and mix 
with oysters and lettuce. Mash yolks fine in deep bowl and add one 
raw yolk. Stir in olive oil slowly until it is a smooth paste. Season 
with lemon juice, English mustard and salt. Add oil until as thick 
as cream. Pour over salad. 

DANDELION SALAD Mrs. Maxwell 

Pick the young tender leaves of the dandelion, wash and lay in 
ice water for half an hour. Drain, shake dry and pat still drier 
between the folds of a napkin. Turn into a chilled bowl, cover with a 
French dressing, turn the greens over and over in this and send at 
once to the table. 

TOMATO JELLY Mrs. A. Donald Campbell 

Cook, for twenty minutes, two cups of tomatoes, with slice of 
onion ; one teaspoonful salt ; dash of pepper ; strain and add one table- 
spoonful Knox gelatine, which has already been soaked in cold water. 
Stir all until gelatine is entirely dissolved; then pour in a ring mold 
that has been dipped in cold water. When ready to serve turn out on 
a bed of lettuce leaves and fill center with chopped celery well mixed 
with mayonnaise. 

72 



Salads 

IllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllltlllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllltllllllllllllllllllllilllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllltltllllllllllllllllllillllttllllllllUIIIIIIIIIIlllIlltlllttltlllltlllll 

SALAD DRESSING Mrs. H. P. Sieh 

One-half cup olive oil; one teaspoonful paprika; one teaspoonful 
Worcestershire sauce ; a pinch mustard ; one-half cup sugar ; one-third 
teaspoonful salt. Mix all together well and add vinegar until the right 
consistency. 

SALAD DRESSING Mrs. E. Hilliard 

Three yolks of eggs, one tablespoonful sugar, one-quarter tea- 
spoonful mustard; one-tenth teaspoonful cayenne pepper, one table- 
spoonful salt, one pint sweet oil, few drops at a time, one-quarter cup 
vinegar, one-quarter cup lemon juice. Add sweet cream before using. 

EXCELLENT SALAD DRESSING Mrs. Frederick Dunn 

Two tablespoonfuls granulated sugar; two teaspoonfuls dry mus- 
tard ; little red pepper ; eight yolks eggs ; eight tablespoonfuls vinegar ; 
two teaspoonfuls salt ; two teaspoonfuls butter. Cook in double boiler 
five minutes ; when cold add one cup chopped pecan nuts or blanched 
almonds, twenty-four chopped marshmallows, two cups whipped 
cream. Pour over apricots or fruit salad. Garnish with maraschino 
cherries. This serves sixteen persons. 

CREAM SALAD DRESSING Mrs. N. A. Flanders 

Two tablespoonfuls butter; two tablespoonfuls sugar; two eggs; 
one-half cup whipped cream; one-half teaspoonful salt; one-half tea- 
spoonful mustard (together); one-eighth cayenne pepper; one-fourth 
cup vinegar. Mix sugar, salt and mustard together in small pot, add 
vinegar and put on fire to heat. Beat eggs very light in a round bot- 
tomed bowl. Add the vinegar and other ingredients. Stand bowl in a 
pan of hot water over fire, and beat with a dover beater until it 
thickens. Take the bowl out at once and beat in the butter. Set aside 
to cool. Add whipped cream before serving. (Last item not neces- 
sary.) 

CREAM SALAD DRESSING Mrs. J. H. Shanley 

Four tablespoonfuls butter ; one tablespoonful sugar ; one-half cup- 
ful vinegar ; one tablespoonful flour ; one teaspoonful each, salt and dry 
mustard ; one cupful milk ; three eggs ; dash cayenne pepper. Let the 
butter get hot; add flour and stir until smooth, being careful not to 
brown. Add milk, stir, and let boil up. Place saucepan in another 
of hot water ; beat eggs, salt, mustard, add vinegar and stir into boil- 
ing mixture. Continue stirring until it thickens. When cold, bottle. 

MRS. LUFF'S MAYONNAISE 

Yolks of three eggs; two teaspoonfuls mustard; one teaspoonful 
salt ; one saltspoonful white pepper ; two tablespoonfuls salad oil : two 
tablespoonfuls sugar; one tablespoonful flour, heaping; one-half cup 
hot vinegar; one cup milk or cream. Beaten whites added last. Put 
in double boiler and stir until it begins to thicken. Take it off stove 
and beat until cool. 

73 



Salads 

■lllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllltlllllllllllllllllllJIIltlllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllltlllllllllllllllllllllllllllltllllltllllllllllllltllllllltllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllluiltlllllllllllllllllllllllll 

FRUIT SALAD DRESSING Mrs. A. R. Swickheimar 

Butter size of an egg; three eggs; juice of two oranges; juice 
of one lemon; one-half can pineapple juice; one-half cup sugar; one- 
third spoonful dry mustard; one teaspoonful flour. Cook in double 
boiler until thick ; set aside to cool ; add one cup of cream, whipped. 

FRUIT SALAD DRESSING Mrs. Frank Sessions 

Yolks of two eggs, well beaten; two tablespoonfuls each of oil, 
vinegar and sugar; one-half teaspoonful salt and dash of paprika. 
Put in bowl over the teakettle, beat until cool. Just before serving 
add the beaten whites and a little cream. 

FRUIT DRESSING Mrs. A. E. Kaltenbrun 

To the juice of one can of pineapple add : one tablespoonful flour ; 
one-half cup sugar ; a pinch of salt ; tablespoonful butter. Cook until 
creamy, let cool and add one bottle of whipped cream, one-half pound 
of dates and marshmallows. Serve on fruit. 

FRUIT SALAD DRESSING Mrs. T. M. Butler 

Two eggs, well beaten, add one cup of sugar; one-half cup of 
pineapple juice, one-fourth cup of lemon juice or juice of one lemon. 
Place in double boiler and cook until creamy and thick. Let it cool 
and just before serving whip one-half pint of cream and stir in the 
sauce. 

SALAD DRESSING Mrs. W. H. Muschlet 

One heaping teaspoonful flour; one heaping teaspoonful Colemans 
mustard ; one-half cup granulated sugar ; one teaspoonful salt ; mix all 
together. Yolks of three eggs; one-half cup vinegar; one cup cream 
or cream and milk ; large lump butter ; little paprika. Cook in double 
boiler until thickened. Before getting cold stir in the beaten whites. 

ITALIAN SALAD DRESSING Mrs. Theresa B. Orr 

Yolks of three eggs boiled hard and mashed fine. One small 
spoonful salt; one small spoonful mustard; a little cayenne pepper; 
one saltspoonf ul of powdered sugar : four tablespoonfuls olive oil ; one 
tablespoonful lemon juice; one tablespoonful vinegar. Do not let 
come to boil but stir constantly. 

SOUR CREAM SALAD DRESSING Mrs. A. R. Swickheimar 

Three eggs beaten with one cup sour cream; two tablespoonfuls 
sugar ; one-half teaspoonful mustard ; one-half cup vinegar ; one table- 
spoonful flour. Cook in double boiler; when cold, add one-third cup 
olive oil. 

THOUSAND ISLAND DRESSING Mrs. Carolyn Chandler 

To a foundation of either boiled dressing or mayonnaise, add: 
Chili sauce, catsup, hard boiled egg and green olives. Serve on either 
lettuce hearts or French endive. 

74 



Salads 

iniiiiiiiiitiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiimitiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiniiiiiiiiii iiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiii Hiiiiifiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiimimiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiimi 

THOUSAND ISLAND DRESSING Mrs. F. B. Woodland 

Three tablespoonfuls mayonnaise dressing; one tablespoonful Tar- 
ragon vinegar ; two tablespoonfuls chili sauce ; one tablespoonful cream ; 
a little dash salt, pepper and paprika; dash English mustard; and 
some chopped chives or onions. 

MRS. PHELPS' THOUSAND ISLAND 

SALAD DRESSING Mrs. B. Lewis Phelps 

Rub the bowl with garlic ; two tablespoonfuls cooked salad dress- 
ing, cream this with one tablespoonful chives, cut fine; one table- 
spoonful green pepper and one of red peppers, both cut fine ; one table- 
spoonful roquefort cheese ; four tablespoonfuls home made chili sauce. 

COOKED SALAD DRESSING Mrs. H. D. Sheldon 

One-half tablespoonful salt; one-half tablespoonful flour; two 
tablespoonfuls sugar; one teaspoonful dry mustard, little cayenne 
pepper; yolks of two eggs; three-fourths cup milk; one-fourth cup 
vinegar; butter size of egg. Mix all dry materials, then add eggs 
well beaten ; butter, milk and vinegar. Cook until thick, stirring con- 
stantly. Thin with cream. 

BOILED DRESSING Mrs. Arthur Hammer 

One teaspoonful each of mustard and sugar; two teaspoonfuls 
flour; one-half teaspoonful salt; one-eighth teaspoonful paprika; one 
egg and one cup of milk. Have butter the size of an egg hot in a 
spider ; have the above . ingredients thoroughly mixed and put in 
the hot butter, stirring constantly until thick. Add vinegar and lemon 
to taste and beat until smooth. 

WALTHAM SALAD DRESSING B. C. Hansen 

One cup of sour cream; two egg yolks; one-fourth cup vinegar; 
two teaspoonfuls salt; two teaspoonfuls sugar; one teaspoonful mus- 
tard; one-eighth teaspoonful pepper. To cream, add egg yolks, 
slightly beaten, vinegar and remaining ingredients, thoroughly mixed. 
Cook in double boiler, stirring constantly, until mixture thickens. 

ROQUEFORT CHEESE DRESSING Mrs. A. E. Kaltenbrun 

Take a ripe piece of cheese, cream with a fork and add cream or 
vinegar until it makes a paste. Add oil and vinegar, salt and paprika 
as for French dressing. 

CHEESE MAYONNAISE 

Half a cream cheese; four tablespoonfuls of olive oil; one table- 
spoonful of vinegar; one teaspoonful of salt; dash of cayenne. Rub 
the cheese to a paste with the olive oil, seasonings and vinegar until it 
is thick like an egg mayonnaise. To some the flavor of oil is un- 
pleasant, but a very good mayonnaise can be made without oil, pro- 
vided you use two eggs instead of the one egg yolk ordinarily required. 

75 



Salads 

■llltllllllllltlllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllltlllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllltllllllllllllllllltllllltllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllililitu 



76 



PIES 



No soil upon earth is so dear to our eyes 

As the soil we first stirred in terrestrial pies." 



PIE CRUST UNFAILING Mrs. H. S. Mount 

One cup flour; two tablespoonfuls of lard; three tablespoonfuls 
of boiling water; pinch salt; baking powder enough to cover the end 
of silver knife. Put lard into water. Beat well; then add to dry 
ingredients, and roll out. 

PIE CRUST Anna May Price 

One cup shortening; one-half cup boiling water; cream. Two 
cups sifted flour and two level teaspoonfuls baking powder. 

PIE CRUST Mrs. N. L. Hurlbut 

One cup flour; two heaping tablespoonfuls lard; pinch salt; one 
teaspoonful baking powder. Cold water enough to make dough. 
Handle as little as possible. 

LEMON CREAM PIE Mrs. Becker 

Bake crust separate. One heaping tablespoonful lard; one-half 
cup flour; two tablespoonfuls water; one-fourth teaspoonful salt. 
Filling: Two cups water; juice of one lemon; yolks of two eggs; 
twc tablespoonfuls corn starch ; one-half cup sugar ; pinch of salt. Boil 
filling separate and when cool fill in baked crust. Beat whites of eggs 
with two tablespoonfuls sugar and put on the top. 

LEMON PIE 

Juice of three lemons ; three eggs ; pint milk ; one-half cup sugar ; 
one-fourth cup rolled crackers ; one lemon rind. 

LEMON CREAM PIE Mrs. Willet Wanzer 

Bake the crust, then fill with the following : One cup sugar ; one 
lemon juice and peel; three egg whites saved for frosting; three 
heaping teaspoonfuls flour stirred up in a little cold water; one tea- 
cup boiling water; mix together and boil up. Then place in baked 
crust. Stir whites of eggs until thick. Add about one-half cup sugar, 
a little at a time. Then place on pie and brown slightly. 

77 



Pies 

ntniiiiiiiiiiiiiiitiiiiiiiitiiiiiiiiiitiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiitiiiiiiiiitiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiitiiiiitiiiiifiiiiiiiiiitiittittiiiiiiiiiitiiiiiitiiitiitiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiititiiiiiiitiiiitiitiintiifiit 

LEMON CREAM PIE Mrs. H. Clay Calhoun 

One cupful granulated sugar; one tablespoonful butter, creamed; 
two tablespoonf uls flour ; juice of one large lemon ; yolks of two eggs ; 
one cupful milk ; stir all together and fold the stiffly beaten whites of 
the two eggs in last. 

LEMON PIE Mrs. R. F. Morrow 

One lemon; one-half orange; one cup sugar; yolks three eggs; 
one cup water; one tablespoonful (heaping) flour; one lump butter; 
beat all together and cook until thick custard. Put into crust; with 
whites beat stiff one spoonful sugar. 

FLAT CUSTARD PIE Mrs. Earl Combs 

Four eggs beaten; one quart of milk; two tablespoonf uls flour; 
one pinch salt; one tablespoonful butter; put in hot pan. Then pour 
custard and bake about twenty minutes. When done put creamed 
sugar on top while hot. Creamed sugar. One cup powdered sugar; 
two tablespoonf uls butter; one teaspoonful vanilla; cream all together. 

CRANBERRY PIE Mrs. Harry M. Boon 

One pint cranberries; one-half cup raisins. Wash and cut up 
raisins, put with cranberries with a small cup of sugar; cook and 
when soft put in pie crust. 

BOSTON CREAM PIE Mrs. J. G. Sherer 

Two cups milk ; three-fourths cup sugar ; three-fourths cup cocoa- 
nut ; pinch salt. Put in double boiler and heat. Teaspoonful vanilla ; 
three tablespoonf uls corn starch dissolved in a little milk; beaten 
whites of four eggs last ; then beat steadily. Bake crust first. Beat a 
bottle of cream until stiff; sweeten it with three tablespoonfuls of 
powdered sugar and a teaspoonful vanilla and spread on pie. 

CREAM PIE Mrs. Willet Wanzer 

Two egg yolks ; four heaping teaspoonfuls sugar ; two cups milk ; 
one-half tablespoonful butter; three even tablespoonfuls corn starch; 
one teaspoonful vanilla. Cook in double boiler until it thickens. Then 
spread on the baked pie crust, and put the whites beaten with sugar 
added on top, and brown slightly. To be eaten cold. Chocolate 
added makes a very delicious pie. 

BUTTER SCOTCH PIE Mrs. William Molt 

Make and bake crust first, before adding filling. One cup light 
brown sugar ; butter size of an egg ; one tablespoonful flour ; pinch of 
salt; mix thoroughly, then add one cup of milk and boil in double 
boiler until thick; then add beaten yolks of two eggs. Add to the 
baked crust ; beat whites of the two eggs stiff, with a little sugar and 
brown slightly in oven. 

78 



Pies 

■lIIIltllllllllfllllllllllHtlllllltlllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllltllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllltltlllllllltllttl 

CREAM PIE Mrs. T. M. Butler 

One egg, one tablespoonful of flour, three-fourths cup of sugar, 
butter size of a walnut, one pint of milk. Stir constantly while cook- 
ing until thickened and fill previously baked crust and sprinkle over 
with cocoanut and nutmeg. 

BUTTER-SCOTCH PIE Mrs. P. D. Swigart 

One and one-half ounces butter; three-fourths cup light brown 
sugar; two eggs; one and one-half cups sweet milk. Put butter in 
pan, mix in brown sugar, stirring constantly until caramel color, then 
add milk and boil until sugar is melted. Separate the yolks from 
whites, add to yolks one-half cup flour and one teaspoonful corn 
starch. Add enough water to make a thick paste, stir into ready 
baked pie crust, put whites to which sugar has been added on top and 
brown. Instead of whites of egg for top of pie, whipped cream may 
be substituted. 

BUTTER-SCOTCH PIE Mrs. Earl Combs 

One-half cup brown sugar; one-half cup white sugar; two yolks 
of eggs; two tablespoonfuls flour; one large cup milk; two table- 
spoonfuls butter; dissolve sugar and butter with a small amount of 
milk; and let boil until it threads a little. Mix flour with a little 
water to thin paste and then add milk and yolks of eggs. Stir all 
together and boil until smooth, thick paste. Put in baked crust. Whip 
whites, put in little sugar, and put on top. Bake a golden brown. 

FILLING FOR PUMPKIN PIE Mrs. W. H. Hart 

One scant cupful sugar beaten into two eggs; one teaspoonful 
flour ; two heaping tablespoonfuls of cooked pumpkin ; spices to suit 
taste; one and one-half cupfuls of sweet milk. Mix in order given; 
this makes one large pie. When done and before serving, spread the 
top with whipped cream ; nuts can also be added. 

BLUEBERRY PIE Mrs. C. S. Junge 

One cup of flour ; two heaping tablespoonfuls of lard ; three table- 
spoonfuls of sour cream. Mix lightly into crust. Sprinkle a layer of 
flour in lower crust and fill with berries. Sprinkle over them two 
tablespoonfuls of flour and a cup and a half of sugar. Put in two 
tablespoonfuls of water and add upper crust. Heat stones of cooker 
fifteen minutes beginning as you begin your pie. Bake pie forty 
minutes. 

SOUR CREAM PIE Mrs. H. Freeman 

One cup sour cream; one cup sugar; one-half cup seeded raisins, 
chopped fine; yolks two eggs; one-half teaspoonful cloves, and cinna- 
mon. Mix one teaspoonful flour with sugar ; spread on the pie after it 
is baked, whites of two eggs beaten to a froth, stiff, with two table- 
spoonfuls sugar. Set in oven and brown slightly. Cream must be 
sour. 

79 



Pies 

uiiiiuiiiiiiiiiiiHiitiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiuiiiiiiuiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiuiiuiiiiiiiiuiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiuiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiii iiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiuiuiiiiiiiiiiiiiuiiiiiiuiiiiiiiiiiiiiniiiia 

MOCK CHERRY PIE Belle Shaw 

One cup cranberries, split lengthwise (work out seeds) ; one-half 
cup raisins chopped fine; one cup sugar with one tablespoonful flour 
mixed with it. Mix all together; pour in one-half cup boiling water; 
add one teaspoonful vanilla. Bake between rich crusts. 

PUMPKIN PIE Mrs. Max Mauermann 

One cup pumpkin; one-fourth cup of sugar; one-half teaspoonful 
salt; one-fourth teaspoonful cinnamon; one-fourth teaspoonful mace; 
one-half teaspoonful vanilla ; one egg and one yolk, beaten separately, 
and whites added last ; one-half cup milk ; one-fourth cup cream ; one 
tablespoonful corn starch. Bake in plain pastry until set. 

RICE RAISIN PIE Mrs. C. A. Carscadin 

Boil one cup of raisins in one cup of water for five minutes ; then 
add three tablespoonfuls boiled rice and one cup of sugar. Boil 
another five minutes and add a tablespoonful butter and bake in two 
crusts. 

DUTCH APPLE PIE Mrs. H. Abells 

Line pie plate with crust and fill with quartered apples. Add 
to one cup of sugar, one large tablespoonful of flour and stir into one 
cup of cream; pour over apples. Grate nutmeg over all and bake 
without upper crust. 

SWEET POTATO PIE Mrs. Earl Combs 

One pound of sweet potatoes mashed ; two cups of sugar ; one cup 
of cream ; one-half cup butter ; three eggs well beaten ; little nutmeg, 
pinch of salt. Bake in crust. 

SWEET POTATO PIE Mrs. Thomas D. Caliger 

Three medium sized potatoes. Boil soft and mash fine. Mix with 
it yolks of three eggs ; sugar, to taste ; one tablespoonful butter ; flavor- 
ing, nutmeg and vanilla to taste. Whip whites of eggs, and add small 
portion of ground citron. 

POTATO PEE Mrs. Charles T. Daily 

Four medium sized potatoes; two eggs; one and one-half cups 
milk; one cup sugar; one teaspoonful vanilla; butter the size of an 
egg ; grate a little nutmeg on top of pie. Mash the potatoes and whip 
them until light and fluffy ; add milk and run through sieve to remove 
all lumps ; add other ingredients ; put whole in crust and cook slowly 
in moderate oven until done. 

PRUNE TARTS Mrs. Litson 

Stone stewed prunes; chop fine; then stew them in their own 
liquor ten minutes; sweeten and thicken with flour or corn starch. 
When nearly cool, fill puff paste forms and pile high with whipped 
cream and serve. 

80 



Pies 

uiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiifiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiijiiiiiuiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiii:iiiiii>iiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiitiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiifiiiiiiiinu 



81 



Pies 

iiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiniiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiii iiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiMiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiitiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiitiiiiiJiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiu 



82 



DESSERTS 



'Among the great, whom heaven hath made to shine, 
How few have learned the art of arts, — to dine!" 



KISS TORTE Mrs. F. Dunn 

Six whites of eggs; two cups granulated sugar; one teaspoonful 
vinegar; one teaspoonful vanilla. Beat the whites of eggs to a stiff, 
dry froth ; add the sugar a little at a time and beat ; add the vanilla 
and vinegar. Grease a spring form pan and pour in the mixture. 
Bake about one hour in a slow oven. Serve with crushed strawberries 
or raspberries and whipped cream. Can be baked in individual molds 
and the centers filled with berries, etc. Very delicious. Bake forty 
minutes in a slow oven. 

KISS TORTE Mrs. Harry M. Boon 

Three egg whites beaten very stiff; gradually put in above one 
cup of granulated sugar, one teaspoonful vinegar, one-half teaspoon- 
ful vanilla. Bake in a very light warm oven in two layers. Fill with 
one quart ice cream, whip cream on top, use berries if you desire, with 
cream. Serves four or five people. Recipe can be doubled. 

CHERRY TORTE Mrs. H. S. Mount 

Thicken cherries with corn starch. Torte: Two tablespoonfuls 
butter; two tablespoonfuls sugar; one yolk egg. Work little by little 
into above mixture one cup of flour; put in pie tin and fill with 
cherries. Bake in oven twenty minutes. 

DATE TORTE Mrs. W. F. Barnard 

One cupful sugar; three eggs; one cup sliced date; one cup sliced 
nut meats; three tablespoonfuls flour; one-half teaspoonful salt; one 
teaspoonful baking powder. Bake about one hour. Serve with 
whipped cream. 



PINEAPPLE CREAM Mrs. C. S. Junge 

One cup whipped cream; fifteen marshmallows cut into quarter 
inch squares ; four slices pineapple cut into this mixture and let stand 
on ice for two hours. Bananas or prunes may be used this same 
way. 

83 



Desserts 

niuiniiiiiiiiiiiiiiuiiiiiiiiiiimiimtniiiiiiiiiiiiiiuuiiiiiiiw 

PINEAPPLE BAVARIAN CREAM Mrs. C. S. Junge 

One tablespoonful Knox gelatin; one quarter cup cold water; 
one-half can grated pineapple ; one-quarter cup sugar ; one-half table- 
spoonful lemon juice; one and one-half cups whipped cream. Soak 
gelatin in the cold water. Heat pineapple and add sugar, lemon juice 
and gelatin. Chill in pan of ice water, stirring constantly. When it 
begins to thicken, beat until frothy. Fold in cream and turn into 
molds. When cold serve with maraschino cherry on top. 

PINEAPPLE MERINGUE Mrs. May F. Kenfield 

Heat one can of grated pineapple and one-half cup granulated 
sugar and when boiling, thicken with about two tablespoonfuls of 
corn starch, dissolved in one-fourth cup of water. Boil five minutes. 
Add juice of one-half lemon and three beaten egg yolks. Remove and 
cool. Fill pastry shells and cover with a meringue, made of three 
whites, beaten stiff, with eight tablespoonfuls powdered sugar. Serve 
very cold. 

PINEAPPLE SPONGE 

One small fresh pineapple or one and one-half pint can of the 
fruit; one small cup of sugar; one-half package Knox gelatine; one- 
halm cup water ; whites of four eggs. Soak gelatine two hours in one 
and one-half cups water. Chop pineapple, put it with juice in a small 
saucepan with sugar and the remainder of the water. Simmer ten 
minutes, add gelatine, take from fire immediately and strain (if you 
prefer to leave the pineapple in, take out before straining) into a 
basin. When partly cold, add whites of eggs beaten. Beat until mix- 
ture begins to thicken. Serve with soft custard, flavored with wine. 

WHIPPED CREAM SECRET Mrs. W. H. Muschlet 

For one pint whipped cream soak a scant tablespoonful granu- 
lated gelatine in enough water, cold, to barely cover, until soft ; then 
add a small half teacupful of boiling water and stir until the gelatine 
is completely dissolved ; after which add three-quarters of a cupful of 
sugar and flavoring. Turn into a bowl and beat it with an egg beater 
until it is white, like marshmallows, and begins to become firm. Just 
as soon as it has reached that point, but before it commences to grow 
stringy, beat it by spoonfuls into the cream. This will increase the 
bulk of the latter, and it will keep firm any length of time. 

SPANISH CREAM 

Pint milk with one-half box Keystone gelatine in double boiler; 
yolks of two eggs and five tablespoonfuls sugar beaten together very 
lightly ; pour milk, etc., into egg mixture ; then return to double boiler 
and stir constantly. Beat whites of two eggs, pour mixture very grad- 
ually with same and stir until cold; then add two tablespoonfuls 
cream and pour into mold. Stand two hours on ice before serving. 
Be careful and have mold damp inside, but not wet, before using. 

84 



Desserts 

llllllllllllllilllllllllllllllllilllllllltlllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllltllllllllSIlIllIlllIIlIIIlllIIilllllllllllllllMlllIlllIIIIIIllIillilllllllllllllllllllilllllllllllllllllflllllllllllllllllllllltllllllllllllll 

DREAM WHIP Mrs. W. I. Clock 

One pint whipping cream; one-half pound marshmallows ; two 
tablespoonfuls sugar ; one teaspoonf ul vanilla ; one-fourth pound pecan 
nuts (other nuts can be substituted if desired). Cut the marshmal- 
lows up with scissors, add to stiffly beaten cream ; also add sugar and 
vanilla. Let stand all one day. When ready to serve place a small 
amount in glasses, adding the chopped nuts, chocolate sauce or any 
fruit desired. This cream and marshmallow combination can be 
served as the foundation of any number of desserts. 

CHARLOTTE RUSSE Katharine Orr 

One-half pint whipping cream; one tablespoonful Keystone white 
gelatine; one-fourth cup hot water; one-fourth cup powdered sugar; 
whites of two eggs; flavor with vanilla. Add gelatine when cold to 
whipped cream and sugar; then flavoring and well beaten whites of 
eggs. Pour over lady fingers and decorate top with cookies stand- 
ing up. 

DRESDEN CHOCOLATE 

One cup stale bread crumbs; one-half grated chocolate; two 
tablespoonfuls sugar ; one-fourth teaspoonf ul salt. Put in oven in but- 
tered tin until chocolate melts. Serve with whipped cream. 

CHOCOLATE LADY FINGER DESSERT Mrs. S. Friedlander 

Eighteen large lady fingers divided in half and put in a pan flat 
side up and pan lined with waxed paper. Melt two cakes Baker 's 
chocolate (sweet) in double boiler with three tablespoonfuls water 
and two tablespoonfuls sugar. Let cool, then add yolks of four eggs, 
beating one at a time. Beat four whites stiff and add to above mix- 
ture. Take layers of lady fingers, then one of the chocolate mixture, 
another of lady fingers and so on, making three layers of lady fingers 
and two of the chocolate mixture. When ready to serve, whip two 
bottles of cream and put on top. Candied cherries and chopped nuts 
may be added also. 

RIZ AU LAIT Mrs. R. Woods 

Boil one-half a cupful of rice in a pint of water until very tender 
and creamy. Add one cup of milk, a small piece of lemon rind, a hand- 
ful currants and sugar to taste. Let cook slowly for fifteen minutes 
and remove from fire. Beat yolk of an egg in a spoonful of milk and 
stir in the rice; do not set back on fire. Serve cold. 

PRUNE SOUFFLE Mrs. WiUiam Molt 

To one cup stewed prunes, seeded, add three tablespoonfuls 
sugar; one-half teaspoonful vanilla and beaten whites of three eggs 
folded in lightly. Steam for two hours in double boiler. (When 
adding water to boiler be sure it is boiling hot.) Serve hot with 
whipped cream. 

85 



Desserts 

iiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiniiiiiiiHiiiiitiiiniiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiuiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiii iiiiiiiiiiiMiiiiiiiiiitiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiitiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiium 

MAPLE CREAM CUSTARD Mrs. Jarvis Weed 

Three bottles cream; three eggs beaten very light; one cup pure 
maple syrup; put all together in a double boiler and stir constantly 
until very smooth. Line a dish with lady fingers and pour the custard 
over them ; put in ice box and serve when very cold. 

PEACH SURPRISE Mrs. W. I. Clock 

Canned peaches; maccarooris; whipping cream. Take the juice 
of peaches and add macaroons broken up. Fill the centers of halves 
of peaches with this mixture, and serve with whipped cream. 

CARAMEL CUSTARD EN SURPRISE Mrs. T. D. McMicken 

Caramel custard baked in individual molds. Unmold on rounds 
of sponge cake a little larger than the custard molds, cover with 
meringue creamed with almond extract. Sprinkle with sugar and 
brown. Decorate with blanched almonds on top. 

BLUEBERRY SHORTCAKE Mrs. C. A. Jennings 

One-half cup butter ; one cup sugar ; one-half cup milk ; two eggs ; 
two and one-half cups flour ; two heaping teaspoonf uls baking powder ; 
one pint blueberries. Mix batter and add berries last. Bake in muffin 
rings or shallow dripping pan. Serve hot, 

PEACH SHORTCAKE Mrs. W. N. Hurlbut 

Two cups flour; four level teaspoonf uls baking powder; half 
teaspoonf ul salt; two teaspoonf uls sugar; one-third cup butter; three- 
quarters cup milk. Mix and sift flour, baking powder, salt and sugar, 
work in butter with finger tips, and add milk gradually. Toss on 
floured board, divide in two parts, bake in hot oven on large cake 
tins. Spilt and spread with butter. Sweeten sliced peaches to taste. 
Crush slightly, and put between and on top cf cakes. Cover with 
whipped cream. 

THORN APPLES 

Prepare a syrup by boiling eight minutes two cups sugar and 
three-fourths cup of water. Wipe, core and pare eight apples 
(Greenings). Drop apples into syrup as soon as pared. Cook slowly 
until soft but not broken, skim syrup when necessary. Drain from 
syrup, fill cavities with quince yelly and stick apples thickly with 
blanched, shredded and delicately toasted almonds. Chill and serve 
with cream as dessert or use as a garnish with cold meats. 

FOOD FOR THE GODS Mrs. J. P. Nichols 

One cup sugar; one teaspoonf ul baking powder; four tablespoon- 
fuls, heaping, cracker crumbs; three eggs, beaten separately; one cup 
dates; one cup nuts. Bake slowly in oven. Serve with whipped 
cream. 

86 



(Desserts 

uiiifiiiiiitiiiiiittiitiitiiiiiiiiiiiitiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiifttiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiitiiiiitiiitiiiiiitiiiiiiiiiiiiiiitiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiaiiiiiiiitiiiiiiiiitiiiiiittiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiitiiiiiiiiii 

STRAWBERRY FOAM Mrs. A. J. Langan 

One cup strawberries, mashed; one cup sugar; white of one egg 
beaten stiff; whip all together for ten minutes, serve on pieces of 
angel food or sunshine cake. 

CRUMB TARTAR Mrs. Wm. J. Maiden 

One cupful sugar; one cup dates, pitted and chopped; one cupful 
nuts, chopped; two eggs; one tablespoonful flour; one teaspoonful 
baking powder; pinch of salt. Mix eggs, sugar and salt, then flour 
and baking powder, adding the dates and nuts last. Bake in slow 
oven and serve with whipped cream. 

FIGS AS A DESSERT 

Dried figs make a very agreeable dish, but they must be prepared 
the day before and set away on ice. Soak them, simmer slowly until 
plump. Drain and pile in a bon-bon dish. Serve with whipped cream 
around the dish. Flavor and sweeten with vanilla. 

HOT APPLE DESSERT DISH Mrs. Eustace 

Pare, quarter, core and slice five or six large apples. Put these 
in a serving dish suitable for the oven, in layers, with seeded raisins 
and one cup of sugar. Cover and let bake until apple is tender. Re- 
move the cover and set marshmallows over the top of the apples, using 
as many as desired ; return dish to the oven, for a minute only, to heat 
the marshmallows, and brown them slightly. Serve with or without 
cream. 



87 



Desserts 

lllIIIIflltlllllllfllllllllllllllllllllllllllflllllllllllllltlllllltllllllllllllllllllllllllltlllllllliltlilllMlIllIItllllllllllllllllfllllltlllllllllltllllltllltlllllllllllltlllilltllllllllllltllllllllllllllllllllll 



88 



PUDDINGS 



The pudding's proof does in the eating lie, 
Success is yours, whichever rule you try." 



FIG PUDDING Mrs. C. B. Martin 

One cup suet; one cup sugar; one cup milk; one cup of figs, 
ground; three cups flour; one-half teaspoonful salt; one teaspoonful 
each of cinnamon and baking powder. Steam two hours. 

STEAMED FIG PUDDING Mary Roberts 

Three ounces beef suet ; one-half ounce figs, chopped fine ; two and 
one-third cups stale bread crumbs; one-half cup milk; two eggs; one 
cup sugar; three-fourths spoonful salt. Chop suet and work with 
hands until creamy; then add figs. Soak bread crumbs in milk. Add 
eggs, well beaten; then sugar and salt. Combine mixture. Steam 
three hours in a buttered mould. Serve with following sauce : 

Sauce : Two eggs ; one cup powdered sugar ; three tablespoonfuls 
wine; beat yolks until thick, add one-half of the sugar. Beat whites 
stiff, add remaining sugar. Combine, and add wine. 

FIG PUDDING Mrs. W. K. Mitchell 

One cup suet ; one cup sugar ; one cup milk ; three cups flour ; one 
cup figs, ground; two eggs; one-half teaspoonful salt; one teaspoonful 
each of cinnamon and baking powder. Mix all together and steam 
about two hours. 

CHOCOLATE PUDDING Mrs. C. A. Bowman 

One pint of milk; two tablespoonfuls corn starch; one table- 
spoonful sugar; pinch of salt. Boil until thick, add one heaping 
teaspoonful cocoa dissolved in a little boiling water, and last the stiffly 
beaten whites of two eggs. Let all cook one minute and flavor with 
vanilla. 

CHOCOLATE PUDDING Mrs. J. L. Putnam 

One pint of milk; one tablespoonful Baker's cocoa; one table- 
spoonful corn starch; one egg; one and one-half cups sugar. Heat 
milk in double boiler. Mix dry ingredients and beat in egg. Add to 
scalded milk. Boil fifteen minutes. Remove from fire and whip with 
egg beater. Add one teaspoonful vanilla. Serve with cream. 

89 



Puddings 

uuiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiuiiiiiiiuuiiiitiuiiiiiinifiiiiiuiiifiiitiuiutiiitiiiiiiuiiiiniitiiiiiiiiiiiiiiniituiuiiiitiitiiiiiiiiuiiiiiiiuiiiiuiiitutiiiiiiiiiiiitiiiiiiiiiitiiiiiiutiiiitiiituiiiiiiiiiia 

STEAMED CHOCOLATE PUDDING Mrs. William H. Fahrney 

One and one-half tablespoonfuls butter; two-thirds cup sugar; 
one egg; one cup milk; one-half teaspoonful salt; two and one- 
fourth cups flour; three teaspoonfuls baking powder; two squares of 
chocolate, melted. Steam in a buttered pudding mold, tightly covered, 
for two hours. 

Cream Sauce: One-fourth cup butter; one cup powdered sugar; 
stir until creamy; then add one cup whipped cream just before serv- 
ing ; flavor. 

STEAMED CHOCOLATE PUDDING Mrs. H. R. Foster 

Three-fourths cup sugar; one tablespoon butter, creamed. Two 
eggs; one-half cup milk; one and one-half cups sifted flour; one and 
one-half teaspoonfuls baking powder; two squares melted chocolate, 
or two tablespoonfuls cocoa ; one teaspoonful vanilla. Steam one hour 
and serve with hard sauce. 

CHOCOLATE ICE-BOX PUDDING 

Two cakes sweet chocolate ; two tablespoonfuls boiling water ; one- 
fourth cup confectioner's sugar; yolks four eggs; whites four eggs; 
nut meats; lady fingers. Melt chocolate in top of double boiler; re- 
move from range, add boiling water and the yolks of eggs beaten 
until thick and light. Fold in the stiffly beaten whites of eggs. Line 
a small pan (dimensions, 7$x4j}x2J) with wax paper. Put in a layer 
of split lady fingers cut to fit and cover bottom ; cover these with half 
of the chocolate mixture ; sprinkle with bits of trimmings of lady 
fingers and nut meats. Cover with a layer of lady fingers, pour over 
remainder of chocolate mixture, sprinkle with nut meats and chill in 
refrigerator twenty-four hours. Serve with whipped cream. 

CARAMEL PUDDING Mrs. H. R. Foster 

One-half pint brown sugar; one-half pint cold water; one-fourth 
box gelatine; four eggs, whites; one-half teaspoonful vanilla. Soak 
gelatine in one gill of cold water. Put sugar and other gill of water in 
saucepan and boil until it becomes a thick syrup. Add gelatine and 
vanilla and again heat to boiling point. Beat whites to stiff froth. 
Pour hot syrup on eggs, beating until cold. Turn into mold and 
serve on flat dish with custard sauce made from yolks of eggs. 

MOLASSES PUDDING Mrs. C. A. Carscadin 

One egg well beaten; two tablespoonfuls sugar, rounded; one 
tablespoonful butter, level ; one pinch salt ; one-half cup molasses ; one 
and one-half cups flour, well sifted; one teaspoonful baking powder; 
one teaspoonful soda, level, dissolved in one-half cup boiling water. 
Steam in buttered tins two hours. 

Sauce : Two eggs ; one-half cup sugar ; pinch salt ; half teaspoon- 
ful vanilla ; cream together and add one cup of whipped cream. 

90 



Paddings 

iiiiiiiiiiiiiiiimiiiiii iiiiiiiiii iiiiiiiiuiiiiiuiiiii iiiiiiiiniiiniiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiuiiniiiiiiiii iiiiiiiuiiihiiiiiiiuiihiiiiiiiiiuiiiiiiiiiiiiiihiiihihiiiii iiiiimit 

ICE-BOX PUDDING Katherine T. Peck 

Scant one-fourth cup unsalted butter ; one cup granulated sugar ; 
cream together. Add yolks of three eggs, one at a time, rind of one 
lemon, half ; and juice of one lemon. Beat the whites of the three eggs 
and add last. Place mixture alternately with lady fingers, three dozen 
lady fingers will serve eight people. Put oil paper in bottom of dish 
to lift pudding out easily. Serve with whipped cream. Place in ice- 
box until thoroughly chilled. Can be made the night before. 

ICE BOX CAKE Mrs. J. F. Nichols 

One dozen lady fingers ; one tablespoonful sugar ; three eggs, sep- 
arated ; one cake sweet chocolate. Melt chocolate in double boiler with 
tablespoonful warm water. Add mixture of yolks of eggs and sugar, 
well beaten, a little vanilla, and lastly well-beaten whites of eggs. 
Dip each lady finger in mixture, arrange in form which has been wet 
with cold water, and fill in. Place in ice box over night. Serve with 
whipped cream. 

ICE BOX CAKE Mrs. H. S. Mount 

Three cakes sweet chocolate, three tablespoonfuls powdered 
sugar, three tablespoonfuls hot water, two dozen lady fingers. Melt 
chocolate, sugar and water in double boiler and add half beaten yolks 
of six eggs. Cook until thick. When cold add beaten whites of six 
eggs. Line a mold with lady fingers and pour half the mixture on 
them, then fill with lady fingers, repeating with the chocolate mixture. 
Made twenty-four hours before served. Just before serving, whip 
one-half pint cream and put on top of cake. Grate a little chocolate 
over all. 

SPONGE PUDDING Mrs. C. A. Carscadin 

One-fourth cup sugar; one-half cup flour; one pint milk; one- 
fourth cup butter; five eggs. Mix sugar and flour, and add milk and 
cook until thick and smooth. Let cool, then add butter. Separate 
egg">, beat yolks until light and fold into mixture. Add whites beaten 
stiff, and pour into buttered dish. Stand dish in pan of water and 
bake in moderate oven one-half hour. 

Sauce: One-fourth cup butter; one-half cup powdered sugar; 
four tablespoonfuls cream added slowly, one teaspoonful vanilla. Set 
mixture over pan of boiling water until creamy. 

SUNSHINE PUDDING Mrs. Carscadin 

One-half cup flour: one-fourth cup sugar; one-fourth butter; one 
pint milk ; five eggs. Mix sugar and flour ; add milk ; and cook until 
smooth in double boiler. Take off stove and add butter. Separate 
eggs, beat yolks and add. Beat whites until stiff and add. Butter 
pan, set in pan of water and bake. 

Sauce : One-fourth cup butter ; one-half cup powdered sugar; four 
tablespoonfuls cream, added slowly. 

91 



Puddings 

iimmnuunHiiimmmuMHunniiiinunimnnimmnmiiiiinimiiuim 

DATE PUDDING Mrs. W. I. Clock 

One cupful sugar; one cupful chopped nut meats; one cupful 
dates; two eggs; one-half cupful milk; one tablespoonful flour and 
one teaspoonful baking powder. Bake twenty or thirty minutes in 
moderate oven. When baking the pudding raises beautifully, but 
when done it falls in the center ; this is the correct occurrence. 

PEACH PUDDING Mrs. E. Oliver 

Butter pudding dish. Slice six large peaches in it. Batter: 
One cup sugar; one egg; one and one-half teaspoonfuls baking powder; 
butter size of an egg; three tablespoonfuls of milk; flour enough to 
make a soft batter. Pour over peaches and bake twenty minutes. 
Serve hot, with cream. 

CREAM PUDDING 

One cup nut meats; one cup dates; cut very coarse. One table- 
spoonful bread crumbs; one cup sugar; two eggs, beaten separately; 
add whites last. Bake twenty minutes in slow oven. Serve cold with 
whipped cream. 

SOUR CREAM PUDDING Mrs. William H. Fahrney 

One cup brown sugar; two eggs; pinch of salt; one cup sour 
cream; one teaspoonful soda; two cups flour; three-fourths cup nuts. 
Bake. 

Sauce: Cream one cup powdered sugar and one-fourth cup but- 
ter; add one egg; one teaspoonful vanilla or tablespoonful sherry 
wine. 

APPLE PUDDING Miss Flora Gill 

One cup sugar; one cup flour; two eggs; one-half cup of sweet 
milk; fill a three-pint baking dish with sliced apples, two-thirds full. 
Add one-half cup of sugar, a little cinnamon, and some water. Bake 
until very tender. When still very hot pour over the top a cake batter 
made as follows : Beat one cup of sugar with yolks of two eggs ; one 
tablespoonful soft butter, and milk and flour. Mix two heaping tea- 
spoonfuls of baking powder with flour before adding to the batter. 
Fold in stiffly beaten whites of the eggs and add extract of vanilla. 
Bake half an hour in a moderate oven. Serve with prepared sauce. 

LEMON PUDDING Mrs. W. I. Clock 

Mix three tablespoonfuls corn starch; three cups boiling water; 
two cups sugar ; two egg yolks ; juice of two lemons, little grated rind 
of one. Dissolve three tablespoonfuls of corn starch in a little cold 
water, add to the boiling water. Have saucepan in water bath. Add 
sugar and lemons, cook for twenty minutes. Remove from fire and 
stir in beaten egg yolks; set mixture in oven for two minutes and 
serve with cream. 

92 



Puddings 

iiiiiniiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiitiiuiiiiniiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiitifitiiiiiiiiiiiiiifiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiitiiiiiiitiiiiiiiiitiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiitMiiiinuniiH 

SOUR MILK BLUEBERRY PUDDING Mrs. C. S. Junge 

One-half cup sugar; one-quarter cup butter; cream these. Two 
eggs well beaten ; one-half cup sour milk ; one-half teaspoonful soda ; 
one cup flour with one cup blueberries. Bake thirty minutes and serve 
with sauce made with one cup of powdered sugar stirred with one 
tablespoonful of butter and flavored with vanilla. 

CARROT PUDDING Mrs. P. D. Swigart 

One and one-half cups flour; one cup sugar; one cup suet; two 
cups raisins ; one cup grated sweet potatoes ; one cup grated carrots ; 
one teaspoonful each salt and soda. Steam three hours ; put three 
tablespoonfuls hot water on soda. 

Sauce : Two yolks of eggs ; one cup powdered sugar ; cream the 
above. Last thing, add a cup whipped cream. 

CARROT PUDDING Mrs. Frederick T. Hoyt 

One cup chopped raw carrots; one cup chopped raw potatoes; 
one cup chopped suet ; two cups chopped raisins ; one cup brown sugar ; 
one cup flour; one teaspoonful salt, cinnamon and allspice; a little 
nutmeg; one teaspoonful soda in about two tablespoonfuls hot water. 
Mix well, put in mold, and steam two and one-half hours ; serve with 
a good pudding sauce. 

Pudding Sauce : One cup sugar ; two egg yolks ; one cup sherry 
wine; beat all until very light, add one pint cream, which has been 
whipped very stiff. 

PRUNE PUDDING Mrs. Eustace 

"Whites of five eggs beaten with one-half teaspoonful of salt ; add 
one cup of powdered sugar sifted with one even teaspoonful cream 
of tartar. Add five large cooked prunes chopped. Bake twenty-two 
minutes in ungreased custard cups. Set in pan of hot water. Slow 
oven. Serve with whipped cream. 

STEAMED MARMALADE PUDDING Mrs. T. D. McMicken 

One cup orange marmalade ; one-fourth cup butter ; one-third 
teaspoonful soda ; two cups stale bread crumbs. Dissolve soda in a 
little hot water; combine marmalade, one egg, butter, soda, and bread 
crumbs. Pack in a mold. Steam one and one-half hours. Serve with 
marshmallow cream. 

GRAHAM PUDDING Mrs. R. H. Wheeler 

One cup molasses ; one cup sweet milk ; two and one-half cups 
graham flour; one cup Sultana raisins; one saltspoonful salt; two 
teaspoonfuls soda dissolved in warm water. Steam in pudding mold 
two hours. 

Sauce : One egg thoroughly beaten. Add one cup pulverized 
sugar; one cup whipped cream; one-half teaspoonful vanilla. 

93 



Paddings 

■iiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiuuiniiiiuiniiiiiiuiiiiiiiiiitiiiiiifniiiiiiiiiiiiitiiitiiiiiiiuiiiiiiiuitiiiiiiiuiiitiiiiiiiiiiiiiutiuiiitiiiiiiiiuiiiiiiitiiiitiiiiiiuiiiiiiiuiiiiiiiiitiinuitiiiiiiiiiituii. 

BROWN BETTY 

Butter the inside of a baking dish, cover the bottom with a layer 
of tart apples, peeled and sliced. Sprinkle this with sugar and cinna- 
mon or nutmeg and put over it a layer of crumbs, strewing it with 
bits of butter. Repeat the layers of apple and crumbs until the dish 
is full, making the top crumbs with an extra quantity of butter. 
Cover the pudding dish, .put it in the oven, and bake slowly for twenty 
or thirty minutes ; uncover, brown lightly ; serve in the dish in which 
it was cooked, with either hard or liquid sauce. 

SURPRISE PUDDING Mrs. C. E. Upham 

Four thin slices bread, buttered and cut in squares ; one egg ; one- 
third cup sugar; four tablespoonfuls molasses; three cups milk; turn 
all over bread. Let stand half an hour and mash well together; then 
bake one and one-half hours slowly. Be careful it does not turn to 
whey. If in a shallow pan, a big hour is long enough. Sauce : Beat 
white of one egg, then beat yolk; mix, add one cupful sugar, vanilla, 
and beat all together. Beating separately makes it very frothy. 

CHERRY PUDDING Mrs. P. D. Swigart 

One-half cup sugar; one tablespoonful butter; one egg; one-half 
cup milk or water ; one and one-half cups flour ; one and one-half tea- 
spoonfuls baking powder. Steam forty minutes, put cherries in cups, 
then the batter. 

Sauce: One and one-half cups cherry juice; one tablespoonful 
butter; sweeten; thicken with corn starch. 

SIMPLE HASTY FRUIT PUDDING Mrs. C. S. Junge 

One tablespoonful butter; two tablespoonfuls sugar; three table- 
spoonfuls flour; one teaspoonful baking powder; two tablespoonfuls 
milk; one egg. Turn this mixture over sliced peaches, bananas, 
oranges, blueberries, pineapples or plums and bake twenty minutes in 
moderate oven. Serve with cream or with hard sauce made by rub- 
bing butter and sugar together. 

ECONOMICAL PUDDING Mrs. Minnie A. Watkins 

Pill a mold with dry pieces of cake, alternating layers with 
bananas that have been scraped and cut lengthwise. Fill up mold with 
a boiled custard thickened with yolks of eggs. Put on ice. Serve cold 
with whipped cream. Also serve toasted Brazilian nut meats with it. 

PHILADELPHIA RICE PUDDING Mrs. B. Z. Bisbee 

Wash well one-fourth cup of rice. Put in a baking dish with one 
quart of milk, four tablespoonfuls of sugar, lump of butter size of a 
walnut ; flavor to taste with nutmeg and cinnamon. Bake in a very 
slow oven four hours; when it commences to brown on top stir well. 
Serve cold. 

04 



Puddings 

lllllllllllllllillltlllllllllllllllltltllltllltlltllllllllltlltlllllltllllllllltllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllltlllllllllltlttlllllllllllllllllllllllllllllliliiiil 

NOONDAY DESSERT 

FOR SCHOOL CHILDREN Mrs. Minnie A. Watkins 

Hot steamed rice served with rich, canned peaches, and cream, 
either plain or whipped. Serve English walnut meats with same. 

MOTHER'S RICE PUDDING Mrs. F. E. Lyons 

One quart milk; three tablespoonfuls rice; three tablespoonfuls 
sugar ; one teaspoonful vanilla. Put in a very slow oven and bake from 
two and one-half hours to three hours. (If heated on top of stove 
before putting in oven, it will save time baking.) 

HONEYCOMB PUDDING Mrs. C. A. Bowman 

One-half cup brown sugar; one-half cup milk; one cup molasses; 
one teaspoonful soda; two eggs; tablespoonful butter; one cup flour. 
Bake and serve with whipped cream or hard sauce. 

INDIVIDUAL PUDDINGS Miss Nora Edmonds 

One-half cupful flour; one-fourth cupful sugar; one-fourth cupful 
butter ; one pint of milk and five eggs. Mix flour and sugar, add milk 
and cook in double boiler until smooth. Remove from stove and put 
in butter. When cold add beaten yolks of eggs and fold in stiffly 
beaten whites last. Put in buttered pans and bake in water. 

Sauce: One-fourth cupful butter; one-half cupful powdered 
sugar and four tablespoonfuls cream added. 

TAPIOCA CREAM Mrs. A. H. Schweizer 

Soak one tablespoonful of pearl tapioca until soft in enough water 
to cover it. This will require several hours. Put it into a double 
boiler with a cupful of water and cook until the pearls are clear ; drain 
off the water and stir in half a pint of grape juice heated, one table- 
spoonful sugar, and cook ten minutes longer. Serve with cream when 
cold. 

ENGLISH PUDDING Mrs. William Molt 

One-half pound suet; one quart milk; two eggs; one pound cur- 
rants; one pound raisins; one cup nut meats, chopped fine; two tea- 
spoonfuls baking powder; one teaspoonful salt and flour enough to 
make a stiff batter. Steam for four to five hours. Serve with foam 
sauce. 

Foam Sauce: White of one egg; enough confectionery sugar to 
make stiff and enough hot water to make it smooth. 

ORANGE PUDDING Mrs. H. B. Rairden 

In bottom of pudding dish lay slices of cake ; cover with slices 
of oranges. Make a custard of one small cup sugar ; one tablespoonful 
corn starch ; one pint of milk and a small piece of butter. Pour over 
the cake and oranges and bake. 

95 



Puddings 

iiniiiiiiiiiiiiuiiiiiiiii iiiiiiiuiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiniiiiiu in iiiiiiiiiiiiiiuiiiiiiitntiiiiiiiiiriiiiii uiiiiiin iimitiK iiniiiitiuiiiiiTiiiiiiiiiiiiuiiiiiiiti 

ENGLISH PUDDING Miss J. Eliza Ball 

One cup molasses; one-half cup sugar; one-half cup butter; two 
eggs; one cup milk. Spice and fruit. Flour enough to make a stiff 
batter. Soda and cream of tartar or baking powder as preferred. 

Liquid Pudding Sauce : Beat one egg and one cup of white sugar 
to a froth. Make a very thin batter with one pint of water and 
butter the size of an egg. Pour butter boiling hot over egg and sugar 
just as it goes to the table. 

CHRISTMAS PUDDING Mrs. Joel H. Norton 

Chop the meats from one pound English walnuts ; chop one pound 
figs; one pound raisins seeded; one cup suet. Rub the above well in 
flour; grate one nutmeg into three cups flour and one teaspoonful salt. 
Moisten with one cup milk. Dissolve well one teaspoonful soda in 
one cup molasses, and add last with one tablespoonful brandy. Dip 
a square of cloth in boiling water ; then quickly flour center. Mold in 
form of a ball and tie securely with string. Boil three or four hours 
in boiling water in very large kettle or boiler. Hang up to dry and 
when thoroughly dry place in jar with an apple to keep from molding. 
Make a week or two before you wish to use it. Boil it in boiling hot 
water for one hour when ready to use. Any sauce will do, but whipped 
cream sweetened with maple sugar is delicious. Brandy can be 
poured over pudding and set on fire if you wish, if served at table. 

NUT PUDDING Mrs. R. E. P. Kline 

Two cups flour; one-half cup sugar; two teaspoonfuls baking 
powder; one-half teaspoonful salt; two eggs well beaten; one cup 
milk; one and one-half cups English walnuts blanched and broken or 
chopped; one-third cup melted butter. Grease mold well and steam 
three hours. 

Sauce: One and one-half cups sugar and three-fourths cup water 
boiled until it threads. Then pour over the well beaten yolks of three 
eggs, stirring all the time. When cool, add flavoring and two cups 
whipped cream. 

NUT PUDDING Miss Julia Hunt 

Two cups boiling water ; one and three-fourths cups brown sugar, 
boil ten minutes. Two and one-half tablespoonfuls (heaping) corn 
starch mixed well with one-third cup cold water ; add to boiling syrup ; 
boil a few minutes until mixture thickens, then add one-half cup 
broken walnut meats and vanilla. Pour into molds and chill. Raisins 
and currants may be added if desired. Serve with cream or whipped 
cream. 

PUDDING SAUCE Mrs. R. F. Morrow 

One cup brown sugar; one-fourth cup butter; yolks of two eggs; 
one-half cup cream; cook to a custard. Add beaten whites, and one- 
fourth cup brandy. 

06 



Puddings 

iiiiMiHiniiiiiiiiiiMiMniiiiiiniiiiiiiinMuiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiuiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiii iiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiuiiiiiiiiiiiiiii 

PUDDING SAUCE Mrs. Weatherell 

Blend one tablespoonful butter, one cup sugar and white of one 
egg (do not beat egg separately). Dissolve one tablespoonful corn 
starch and a little salt and add to one pint of boiling water. Let 
cook ten minutes. Then add the butter, egg and sugar, and whip 
until foamy. Flavor to taste. 

PUDDING SAUCE Mrs. H. D. Sheldon 

Two eggs; one cup powdered sugar; one cup cream; a pinch of 
salt. Beat eggs and gradually add sugar until a smooth creamy con- 
sistency. Just before serving add whipped cream. 

FRUIT SAUCE Mrs. May F. Kenfield 

For steamed or baked puddings : One-half cup of butter and one 
and one-half cups of powdered sugar; cream together and add yolk 
of one egg. Then to this add a cupful of crushed strawberries or any 
fruit in season. 

HARD SAUCE Mrs. W. D. Hurlbut 

Four tablespoonfuls butter; eight of powdered sugar; frothed 
white of one egg; half a glass of wine. Cream butter and sugar to- 
gether ; add wine, then white of the egg. Set in a cool place to harden. 
Grate nutmeg over top. 

GRAPE SAUCE 

Remove the pulps of the grapes from the skins, boil the pulp until 
the seeds can be separated, strain through a collander, add the skins, 
and boil five minutes, after which add two-thirds the amount in sugar. 
Boil twenty minutes, stirring constantly. 

STRAWBERRY SAUCE 

One-half cup butter; one cup sugar; then add one cup crushed 
strawberries. This can be made only in strawberry season. 



97 



Puddings 

■tiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiititfiitiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiitiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiitiiiiniiiitiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiifiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiitiiiiiiiiiiifiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiittiiiiiiiiiiiitiiiiiiiiiiiitiiiiii 



98 



FROZEN DISHES 



Seek roses in December, ices in June." 

— Byron. 



NESSELRODE PUDDING Miss Agnes Seiber 

Three cups milk; one and one-half cups sugar; yolks five eggs; 
one-half teaspoonful salt; one pint cream; one-fourth cup pineapple 
syrup; one and one-half cup prepared French chestnuts. Make cus- 
tard of first four ingredients, strain, cool, add cream, pineapple syrup 
and chestnuts ; then freeze. To prepare chestnuts, shell, cook in boil- 
ing water until soft, and force through a strainer. Line a two-quart 
melon mold with part of the mixture; to remainder add one-half cup 
candied fruit cut in small pieces, one-quarter cup Sultana raisins, and 
eight chestnuts broken in pieces, first soaked several hours in Mara- 
schino syrup. Fill mould, cover, pack in salt and ice, and let stand 
two hours. Serve with whipped cream, sweetened and flavored with 
Maraschino syrup. 

MACAROON ICE CREAM Mrs. G. Shelly 

Roll until fine one-half pound dried macaroons ; add one-half cup 
sherry wine, let stand three hours. Whip one and one-half pints 
heavy cream until solid, then fold in macaroons. Cook one cup of 
sugar and one-half cup water for two minutes; cool and add to one 
quart thin cream, combine mixtures, add three-fourths tablespoonful 
each vanilla and almond extracts and a pinch of salt. Freeze, pack 
in mold and let stand in ice and salt from two to three hours. 

FROZEN PEACHES Miss B. L. Chandler 

One can or twelve large peaches, two coffee cupf uls sugar ; one 
pint water and the whites of three eggs beaten to a stiff froth ; break 
the peaches rather fine and stir all the ingredients together ; freeze the 
whole into form. 

STRAWBERRY ICE CREAM 

Three pints thin cream; two boxes berries; two cups sugar; few 
grains salt. Wash and hull berries, sprinkle with sugar, cover and 
let stand two hours. Mash, and squeeze through cheese-cloth; then 
add salt. Freeze cream to consistency of mush, add gradually fruit 
juice, and finish freezing. 

99 



Frozen Dishes 

■iiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiitiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiitiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiifiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiitiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiifiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiitiiiiiiiiitiiiiiiiiiiina 

PEACH ICE CREAM Mrs. R. J. Roulston 

One quart peaches, one pint milk, two cups sugar, one pint cream. 
Put sugar in peaches and dissolve before sifting. Mix and rub through 
a potato ricer after sugar is dissolved. Add milk and cream. Freeze. 

CHOCOLATE ICE CREAM 

One quart thin cream; one cup sugar; few grains salt; one and 
one-half squares Baker's Chocolate or one-fourth cup prepared cocoa; 
one tablespoonful vanilla. Melt chocolate, and dilute with hot water 
to pour easily, add to cream; then add sugar, salt and flavoring, and 
freeze. 

PIG ICE CREAM Mrs. George Lomax 

Three cups milk ; one cup sugar ; yolks five eggs ; one teaspoonful 
salt; one pound figs, finely chopped; one and one-half cups heavy 
cream ; whites five eggs ; one tablespoonful vanilla ; two tablespoonfuls 
brandy. Make custard of yolks of eggs, sugar and milk ; strain, add 
figs, cool and flavor. Add whites of eggs beaten until stiff and heavy 
cream beaten until stiff ; freeze and mold. 

ICE CREAM Mrs. Everett Maynard 

One quart cream, one pint milk, two eggs, two cups sugar, one- 
half cup flour. Sift flour and sugar; beat eggs and milk and cook in 
double boiler. Strain, and add vanilla to taste. 

PINEAPPLE CREAM 

Two cups water; one cup sugar; one can grated pineapple; two 
cups cream; make syrup by boiling sugar and water fifteen minutes; 
strain, cool, and add pineapple, and freeze to a mush. Fold in whip 
from cream ; let stand thirty minutes before serving. Serve in frappe 
glasses and garnish with candied pineapple. 

MAPLE PARPAIT Mrs. Earl Combs 

One cup of maple syrup : three eggs : a pinch salt ; two cups 
whipped cream; one teaspoonful lemon juice; beat eggs very light, 
bring maple syrup to boiling point : pour it on the eggs, beating while 
pouring. Cook all together until thick, then set aside to cool. When 
cool, add whipping cream, mix thoroughly, turn into mold, cover 
closely and bury in ice and salt for three hours. 

ANGEL PARPAIT Mrs. Frank A. Simmons 

Boil together one-half cup sugar and one-half cup water until a 
soft ball can be formed. Whip whites of three eggs until foamy but 
not stiff; pour syrup in a fine stream over them, beating until cold. 
Add one tablespoonful vanilla. Fold in one pint thick cream, beaten 
stiff. Turn into a quart mold and pack in salt and ice for four hours. 
Serve in high glasses and decorate with candied cherries. 

100 



Frozen Dishes 

■IlUlllllIillllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllltltllklllllllllllllllllllltllllllllltllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllltllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllltillllllltlllllltllltttliliiii 

CAFE PARFAIT L. E. Kennedy 

One pint whipping cream ; two tablespoonf uls black coffee ; sugar 
to taste. Whip until stiff; put into a colander to drain. Pack in ice 
for three hours. 

GRAPE PARFAIT 

Put one cup of sugar over the fire with half a cup of grape-juice, 
bring to a boil and cook until it will spin a thread from the tip of the 
spoon. Have ready the yolks of three eggs, beaten well, pour the 
grape-juice syrup upon it, and add two cups of whipped cream. Turn 
into a mold, pack in ice, salt and leave for three hours. 

FROZEN PUDDING Mrs. K. T. Cary 

Two-third quart milk, two tablespoonfuls flour, two tablespoonf uls 
gelatine, two eggs, one pint cream, two cups granulated sugar, one- 
half pound apricots or cherries, vanilla to taste. Soak gelatine in 
warm water two hours. Put milk in double boiler and scald. Stir 
eggs, flour and one cup of sugar together and add to milk. Cook 
twenty minutes. After it is cold add gelatine, cup of sugar, cream and 
vanilla. Freeze. 

BISQUE Mrs. Henry Thayer 

One pint of cream whipped ; three eggs beaten separately ; one and 
one-half pints of sugar ; one tablespoonful vanilla, stir gently together, 
put into ring mold and pack in ice and salt for five or six hours. 

FROZEN FRUIT COCKTAILS 

Peel, seed and chop three large oranges ; shred or chop one fresh 
pineapple or a can of the fruit; peel and mince fine three bananas. 
Pour over all one cupful of grapejuice, sweeten the mixture to taste, 
and turn into a freezer. The fruit must not be frozen too hard, but it 
should be well chilled and partially congealed. Serve in fruit cock- 
tail glasses, with or without whipped cream on top. 

GRAPE WATER ICE 

Boil one quart of water and one pound of granulated sugar for 
five minutes without stirring after the boil is reached. Add to this 
two cupfuls of grapejuice, the juice of two oranges and of two lemons, 
and the grated peel of one of each fruit. Turn into a freezer and 
freeze slowly. 

PINEAPPLE SHERBET 

Soak a tablespoonful of gelatine into two tablespoonfuls of cold 
water and pour over this one pint of boiling water. Set aside until 
cold. Add to it one cupful of sugar, one can of chopped or shredded 
pineapple, and half a pint of grapejuice. Freeze. Serve in sherbet 
glasses. 

101 



Frozen Dishes 

■(iiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiaiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiftiitiiiiitiiiiiiiiiiiiitiiiiiiitiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiitiiiiiiiiiiitiiiifiiiiiitiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiitiiiiiiiiitiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiitiittinit 

CHOCOLATE SAUCE FOR ICE CREAM Mrs. E. Oliver 

Two squares bitter chocolate; one cup hot water; one-half cup 
sugar; one teaspoonful vinegar; pinch of salt and flavoring, boil ten 
minutes. 

TEA SHERBET Mrs. A. H. Wagoner 

Make half a pint of Ceylon tea ; after five minutes standing, drain 
off the tea and put it aside until cold. Add one pint of grapejuice, 
half a cupful of white sugar, and turn it into a freezer. When half 
frozen, put in a dozen quartered Maraschino cherries, and continue to 
freeze until the mixture is so stiff that the dasher will not turn. Pack 
for an hour before using. 

FRUIT SHERBET 

One-half envelope Knox sparkling gelatine ; one orange ; one and 
one-half cups sugar ; one lemon ; three cups rich milk. Grate the out- 
side of both orange and lemon. Squeeze out all the juice, add to this 
the sugar. When ready to freeze, stir in the milk slowly to prevent 
curdling. Take part of a cup of milk, add the gelatine. After stand- 
ing lire minutes, place in a pan of water (hot) until dissolved, then 
stir into the rest of the milk and fruit juice. Freeze. This makes a 
large allowance for iive persons. 

APRICOT SHERBET Miss Maude Higgins 

One quart apricots ; one quart milk ; one pound sugar. Put fruit 
through soup sieve. Then mix all together and freeze in ice cream 
freezer. 

MILK SHERBET Mrs. Harry Hankins 

One and one-half quarts milk, one cup cream, one pint sugar. 
Partly freeze. Add juice of three lemons and two oranges, whites of 
two eggs, beaten stiff. Turn freezer slowly until frozen. 

A DELICIOUS SHERBET 

Whip one-half pint cream very stiff, sweeten with confectionery 
sugar ; set away to chill. Chop fine one large banana, one orange, one- 
half cup English walnuts, one-half cup preserved pineapple, one-half 
large marshmallow. Just before serving beat the fruit and nut mix- 
ture through the cream and serve at once in sherbet cups with a cherry 
on top. Enough for six persons. 

MAPLE MOUSSE 

Yolks four eggs beaten very light; heat one cup of maple syrup 
in double boiler, when hot stir into the beaten yolks, and put back into 
double boiler and cook until thick. When cold mix lightly with one 
pint of cream whipped. Turn into mold and pack in ice and salt for 
four hours. 

102 



Frozen Dishes 

iiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiititiiiiiiiiiiiiii*ii*Jiiiiiiiiiiiiii«tiiiiiiiiiiiiriiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiitiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiitij»iiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiini 



PEACH MOUSSE Mrs. J. H. Shanley 

Whip one pint of thick cream until it is fluffy; add one cupful 
of sugar and one teaspoonful vanilla. Mash up a pint can of peaches 
and mix them in with the cream. Pour this mixture into a mold that 
has been wet with cold water. Pack the mold in equal parts of 
chopped ice and coarse salt and let it stand for four hours, when it 
will be ready to use. 

MAPLE MOUSSE Mrs. T. D. McMicken 

Two-thirds cup maple syrup; two eggs; one-third quart cream; 
beat yolks ten minutes, add syrup gradually and put in double boiler 
and cook twenty minutes. Beat whites till dry, pour cooked yolks and 
syrup over while hot, and set to cool. Whip cream and pour cold 
cooked syrup over, being careful to only fold in. Put in mold and 
pack in ice and salt, half and half, two or three hours. 

GRAPE MOUSSE 

Whip stiff one pint of cream, sweetening it as you whip it with 
three-quarters of a cup of powdered sugar. When the cream is stiff 
and firm, fold in half a cupful of grape juice, pack the mixture in a 
mold in ice and salt, cover this closely, and let it stand for three or 
four hours. 

CAFE MOUSSE L. E. Kennedy 

Yolks of five eggs; one-half cupful coffee; one cupful sugar; one 
pint whipped cream. Pack in freezer and let stand four or five hours. 

CAFE MOUSSE Genevieve Macklem 

One pint of whipped cream, very stiff, one-half cup hot coffee, 
very strong; one-half cup sugar; two eggs, yolks beaten with sugar; 
pour coffee on yolks and stir until cool or beat. Pour this on whipped 
cream and add whites of two eggs well beaten. Pour into mold, cover 
tight, and pack in salt and ice for five or six hours. 

ORANGE PUNCH 

Juice of six oranges and grated rind of one. Mix with one pint 
water, one cup sugar and one cup cherries, bananas and chopped nuts. 
After this is well frozen, take out dasher and beat in one-half pint of 
whipped cream. Repack and let stand for three or four hours. 

COCOA FRAPPE 

Mix half a pound of cocoa and three cupfuls of sugar ; cook with 
two cupfuls of boiling water until smooth; add to three and a half 
quarts of scalding milk (scalded with cinnamon bark) ; cook for ten 
minutes. Beat in the beaten whites of two eggs mixed with a cupful 
of sugar and a pint of whipped cream. Cool, flavor with vanilla ex- 
tract, and freeze. Serve in cups. Garnish with whipped cream. 

103 



Frozen Dishes 

■tiiiiiiitiiiiiiitiitiiitiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiitiiitiiiiitiiiiiitiiiiitiiiiiiiiiiiitiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiittiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiitiiiiiitiiiiiiiiiiiiiitiiiiiitiitiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiif ■iitiiiiiiiiiiiim 

PINEAPPLE FRAPPE 

Two cups water ; one cup sugar ; juice three lemons ; two cups ice- 
water; one can shredded pineapple or one pineapple, shredded. Make 
syrup by boiling water and sugar fifteen minutes; add pineapple and 
lemon juice; cool, strain, add ice- water, and freeze to a mush, using 
equal parts ice and salt. If fresh fruit is used, more sugar will be 
required. 

FROZEN EGG-NOG Mrs. Will J. Davis 

Put one quart of milk, a good sized stick of cinnamon; six cloves 
and six whole allspice in a double boiler and scald. Beat the yolks 
of a dozen eggs until thick and light, gradually adding two cups of 
sugar, beating constantly. Add one-half teaspoonful each of salt and 
nutmeg. Strain spices from milk and pour milk slowly into the egg 
mixture, continue beating. Cook over hot water, stirring constantly, 
until thick enough. Remove from stove, cool, then add three pints 
thick cream and freeze slightly. When about to serve add one-fourth 
cup each of Jamaica rum and cognac. 

FRUIT PUNCH Mamie Johnson 

Two cups sugar; one-half cup orange juice; one cup water; one- 
half cup lemon juice; one cup strawberry juice; one cup pineapple 
juice and one-half cup maraschino cherries. Boil sugar and water to 
a syrup and add the fruit juices. Let stand twenty minutes and strain 
and chill. Add whole cherries. Sweeten to taste or weaken if neces- 
sary. Serve ice cold. 

CRANBERRY PUNCH Mrs. Frank Germaine 

Stew one quart of berries until soft. Pass through a sieve; add 
to pulp juice of three oranges, one tablespoonful liquid from mara- 
schino cherries and sugar to sweeten. Cook twenty minutes, cool and 
freeze. Garnish each cup with a teaspoon of whipped cream, candied 
cherries and a mint leaf. Set sherbet cups on plates and serve with 
lady fingers. 

WATERMELON ICE Mrs. Charles S. Clark 

Put watermelon pulp in potato ricer and squeeze juice out of it. 
For one quart of liquid add juice of two lemons and sugar to taste. 
Freeze. 

LEMON ICE Sue C. Woodman 

Juice four lemons; two cups sugar; strain juice into sugar; let 
stand two hours on ice ; one pint milk or cream. Freeze. 

LEMON ICE Mrs. Alice Snively 

Four cups water, two cups sugar, three-fourths cup lemon juice. 
Make a syrup of the sugar and water. Add lemon juice. Freeze. 

104 



Frozen Dishes 

iiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiffiiiiiiiiiiitiiiiiiiiiiiitiiitiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiitiiiniiiiiiiiiiii 

ORANGE ICE 

Four cups water ; two cups sugar ; two cups orange juice ; one- 
fourth cup lemon juice; grated rind of two oranges. Make syrup by 
boiling water and sugar for twenty minutes ; add fruit juice and 
grated rind ; cool, strain and freeze. 

ALMOND ICE 

Two pints milk ; eight ounces cream, two ounces orange-flower 
water ; eight ounces sweet almonds ; four ounces bitter almonds. 
Pound all in marble mortar, pouring in from time to time a few drops 
of water ; when thoroughly pounded add the orange-flower water and 
half of the milk ; pass this, tightly squeezed, through a cloth ; boil the 
rest of the milk with the cream and keep stirring it with a wooden 
spoon ; as soon as it is thick enough, pour in the almond milk ; give it 
one boiling, take it off and let cool in a bowl or pitcher before pour- 
ing it into the mold for freezing. 

FROZEN LEMONADE Mrs. Frederick T. Hoyt 

Boil one pound of sugar in one pint water for five minutes, add 
one pint of cold water, the grated rind of one lemon, and the strained 
juice of four. Turn into a freezer, and turn until frozen like snow, 
serve in lemonade glasses, and topped with a piece of candied or fresh 
lemon. 

LEMON ICE Belle Shaw 

Juice of four lemons ; whites four eggs ; two cups sugar ; two cups 
water; one tablespoonful gelatine. Add gelatine to whites of eggs; 
mix sugar, water and lemon juice together, then add to beaten whites 
of eggs, and freeze. 

THREE-OF-A-KIND ICE L. E. Kennedy 

Three oranges; three lemons; three cupfuls sugar; the whites of 
three eggs and three cupfuls water. Freeze. This will serve twenty. 



105 



Frozen Dishes 

■lllllllllltilllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllltflltllllllllllllllllllllllllltlllllltlllllllllllllllltlllllllllllllllttlllillllltlllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllliliiiiiitlllflllllllllllil 



ioe 



BREAD 



"Here is bread which strengthens men's hearts, 
And, therefore, is called 'The Staff of Life.' " 



SPOON BREAD Mary S. Vanzwoll 

One cup buttermilk ; one cup boiled rice ; one-half cup corn meal ; 
one egg ; one tablespoonful melted lard or butter j one-half teaspoonful 
soda in water; salt. Bake in medium oven thirty minutes. 

OATMEAL BREAD Mrs. F. W. Bentley 

One cake compressed yeast; one quart flour, half white and half 
oatmeal flour; one tablespoonful brown sugar; one teaspoonful salt; 
one tablespoonful drippings of bacon, melted (hot) ; one-half cup 
molasses; put in half water and half milk enough to make a stiff 
batter. Let it rise and mold into two loaves. Let rise to half its size, 
and bake in moderate oven thirty-five minutes. 

NUT BREAD Mrs. Stevens 

Four cups flour; one cup sugar; two cups nuts; two and one-half 
cups milk; one egg; four teaspoonfuls baking powder; one teaspoon- 
ful salt. Mix dry ingredients together. Beat egg, add milk to egg 
and pour in the flour, stirring as little as possible. Make in two loaves 
and let stand covered twenty minutes. Then bake in moderate oven 
forty minutes. 

NUT BREAD Mrs. T. M. Butler 

Sift four cups of flour, one cup of light brown sugar sifted three 
times, one cup of pecans chopped, four teaspoonfuls of baking pow- 
der; one teaspoonful salt. All dry mixture work with hands, add one 
and one-half cups of sweet milk, one egg beaten light, place in pans, 
let stand twenty minutes. Then bake forty-five minutes. 

NUT BREAD Mrs. H. D. Sheldon 

Two cups of graham flour; one cup of white flour; three tea- 
spoonfuls of baking powder ; one teaspoonful salt ; one-third cup sugar, 
sifted together. One tablespoonful melted butter; one and three- 
fourths cup of milk ; one cup of English walnuts. Mix in order given. 
Bake in bread tin about an hour. 

107 



Bread 

■■iiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiitiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiitiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiitiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiitiiiaiiiaijiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiaiiiiiiiiiiitiitKiiii] 

NUT BREAD Mrs. W. F. Barnard 

Three cups flour; four even teaspoonfuls baking powder; one cup 
sugar ; one teaspoonf ul salt ; one egg ; one and one-half cups sweet milk ; 
one cup nut meats. Bake slowly one hour. 

NUT LOAF Mrs. R. McNeil 

Two cups of flour; three-fourths cup of sugar; one-half tea- 
spoonful salt; three-fourths cup walnuts crushed; three teaspoonfuls 
baking powder ; one egg. Beat egg with milk ; add to the mixed and 
sifted dry ingredients, let rise half an hour, and bake. 

GRAHAM BREAD Mrs. John T. Gilchrist 

One cup white flour; two cups graham flour; one teaspoonf ul 
salt; one teaspoonf ul soda; one-half cup dark molasses; one and one- 
half cups sweet milk; one cup seeded raisins. Bake in a slow oven 
for forty-five minutes. 

RAISIN GRAHAM BREAD Mrs. Clara A. Baldwin 

One-half cup to one cup seeded raisins; one egg; two-thirds cup 
molasses ; one rounding teaspoonf ul soda dissolved in a little hot water ; 
two cups milk; four cups graham flour. Mix and bake one and one- 
half hours in slow oven. 

RAISIN BREAD Mrs. T. D. McMicken 

One and one-half cups sour milk; one and one-half teaspoonfuls 
soda; one-fourth cup molasses; one-half teaspoonf ul salt; graham 
flour till stiff enough to drop from spoon. One-half cup raisins. 

SOUTHERN BROWN BREAD Sue C. Woodman 

One and one-half cups sour milk ; one level teaspoonful soda ; scant 
cup brown sugar; two cups graham flour; one cup raisins; one tea- 
spoonful salt ; bake one hour. 

BOSTON BROWN BREAD Mrs. Emma C. Portman 

Two cups milk, sour ; two cups graham flour ; one cup wheat flour ; 
three tablespoonfuls molasses or sugar; one teaspoonful soda. Take 
pound baking powder cans, lard them well and fill two-thirds full ; put 
on lids and set in a kettle which is half full of boiling water; put on 
the kettle lid and keep boiling three hours; replenishing often with 
boiling water. 

BOSTON BROWN BREAD NO. 2 Mrs. M. A. Stewart 

One cup sweet milk; one cup sour milk; one cup New Orleans 
molasses ; one-half teaspoonful salt ; one teaspoonful soda ; one cup corn 
meal; two cups graham flour. Add a few raisins which greatly im- 
prove the flavor. Put in a five-pound pail, set in cold water (one 
quart). From time it commences to boil let cook for three hours. 

108 



Bread 

■(iiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiitiiiiaitiitiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiitiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiitiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiitiiiiiiiiiitiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiBB 

MY MOTHER'S BROWN BREAD Mrs. Grant Beebe 

One cup molasses ; one cup milk (sweet or sour) ; one cup of gra- 
ham flour and one cup corn meal, stiff ; two cups raisins, two eggs ; two 
even teaspoonfuls soda ; one tablespoonful brown sugar ; one teaspoon- 
ful salt. Bake one hour in moderate oven. 

JOHNNY CAKE Mary S. Vanzoll 

One cup sweet milk; two eggs; one dessert spoonful of sugar; 
one-half cup yellow corn meal; one-half cup flour to make like cake 
batter; one-fourth cup melted butter; salt; heaping teaspoonful bak- 
ing powder. 

CORN CAKE Mrs. J. L. Putnam 

Scald one cup white corn meal with one pint of milk; while hot 
add one tablespoonful of buttered bread crumbs, one of sugar and a 
little salt. The yolks and whites of three eggs beaten separately. Pour 
into a well buttered frying pan and bake twenty minutes in a hot 
oven. 

CORN MEAL GEMS Mrs. K. Larson 

One-half cup corn meal ; one cup flour ; three teaspoonfuls baking 
powder; one tablespoonful sugar; one tablespoonful melted butter; 
one-half teaspoonful salt ; three-fourths cup milk ; one egg. Mix and 
sift dry ingredients; add milk gradually and egg well beaten and 
melted butter. Bake in hot oven in buttered gem pans for twenty-five 
minutes. 

CORN GEMS Josephine Hurlbut 

Put two cups of corn meal into a bowl ; pour over one cup of boil- 
ing milk ; add a tablespoonful butter ; cover the bowl, allow the mixture 
to stand until cool; add another cup of cold milk; the yolks of two 
eggs, well beaten; one-half teaspoonful salt; half cupful flour, and 
two teaspoonfuls baking powder. Beat thoroughly, then fold in the 
well beaten whites of two eggs. Bake in gem pans in a moderately 
quick oven thirty minutes. 

BAKING POWDER BISCUITS Mrs. H. B. Rairden 

Thirteen tablespoonfuls flour; one teaspoonful salt; four level 
teaspoonfuls baking powder; one tablespoonful lard; mix together 
with milk enough to make dough. 

PARKER HOUSE ROLLS Mrs. H. R. Foster 

Scald one pint of milk; one yeast cake put in warm water; two 
tablespoonfuls sugar ; two tablespoonfuls butter ; one teaspoonful salt ; 
three cups flour; mix. Raise until double; then add flour to make 
soft dough. Raise again, and make in roll pans and raise again. 
Bake in hot oven. 

109 



Bread 

iiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiHiiiniiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiii iiiiiiiiiiiiiiiitiiiiiiniiiimi iiiiiitii 1 mini iiiiiiiiiiini iiiiiiiiiuiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiuiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiii 

OATMEAL GEMS Mrs. Henry Crossman 

Two tablespoonfuls left-over cooked oatmeal, beat in one egg, 
one-half cup sweet milk, one teaspoonful baking powder, one scant 
cup flour, pinch salt. Bake in hot oven in iron gem pans fifteen 
minutes. 

LIGHT BISCUIT Mrs. A. J. Atwater 

Take a piece of bread dough that will make as many biscuit as 
you wish; lay it out rather flat in a bowl; break into it two eggs, 
one-half cup sugar; one-half cup butter. Mix this thoroughly with 
enough flour to keep it from sticking to hands and board. Knead 
well for fifteen to twenty minutes ; make it into small biscuits ; place 
in greased pan and let rise until they are even with top of pan. Bake 
in quick oven for half an hour. 

POTATO BISCUIT Mrs. H. S. Mount 

One cup of milk; three potatoes (cooked and riced) ; one table- 
spoonful lard; one teaspoonful butter; one and one-half teaspoonful 
salt; two teaspoonfuls sugar. Let cool and add one cake yeast dis- 
solved in lukewarm water. Two eggs well beaten; four cups flour; 
let raise three hours. Then roll out about one-half inch thickness. 
Butter, cut, turn over with silver knife and shape like parker house 
rolls. Raise two hours more and bake about ten minutes. Will make 
about fifty rolls. 

SOUTHERN POTATO BISCUITS Mrs. Granville Richardson 

Three cups flour ; three teaspoonfuls baking powder ; one teaspoon- 
ful salt; one cup hot mashed potatoes; three tablespoonfuls butter or 
other shortening; one-half cup milk; one egg. Mash the potatoes 
through a strainer, add salt, milk, butter or shortening and then the 
egg well beaten. Beat until smooth, then sift in the flour and baking 
powder. Turn on a floured board, cut with small biscuit cutter, put 
into hot oven and bake twenty minutes. 

"ABBIE'S" CORN BREAD Mrs. Edward E. Swadener 

One cupful corn meal; one cupful flour; one-third cupful sugar; 
one teaspoonful baking powder; salt. Put these through flour sieve, 
add one tablespoonful melted butter. Beat one egg very light in a 
cup, add enough milk to fill the cup, stir this in the flour; then add 
one-half cup more of milk. Use your judgment about quantity of 
milk. Bake either in one pan or in muffin pan. 

MUFFINS Mrs. John M. Stahl 

Beat three eggs and add two cupfuls milk; one quart of flour; 
two heaping teaspoonfuls baking powder; one tablespoonful sugar; 
one teaspoonful salt; one tablespoonful melted lard put in the last 
thing. Bake twenty minutes in a hot oven. This makes eighteen 

muffins. 

no 



Bread 

■iiiitiiiiiii>iifiii>iiiiitiiiiiiitiiiiiitiiiiiiitiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiii>iiiiiitiiiiiiiiiiiiiiitiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiitaiiit)iiiiitiiiiiiiiiiiiiiittiiiitiititiiiiiiiiiiiiiiii* 

AFTERNOON TEA ROLLS Mrs. C. N. Eastman 

One cup hot mashed potatoes; one cup sugar; one cup melted 
butter; one cake compressed yeast; four eggs; one cup lukewarm 
water; flour enough to knead. Soak the cake of yeast in lukewarm 
water at noontime. Put sugar in bowl with mashed potatoes at 
same time. Then at night put these together. In the morning, add 
melted butter and eggs well beaten. Stir in enough flour to knead 
and let rise until light. Make into small tea rolls and let rise 
until very, very light. Bake twenty-five minutes in moderate oven. 
Cream powdered sugar and butter to a paste and spread on top of 
rolls just before serving. 

OATMEAL MUFFINS Dr. V. Racine 

One and one-fourth cups cooked oatmeal; one and one-fourth 
cup bran flour; two heaping tablespoonfuls white flour; one heaping 
teaspoonful baking powder; one saltspoon salt; two heaping 
tablespoonfuls cocoanut ; one-half cupful raisins (seeded) ; two eggs 
beaten light. Mix the eggs and cooked oatmeal; add the dry in- 
gredients. The dough should be very stiff. If too moist, use more 
bran. Bake in your gem pans or muffin rings in a moderate oven. 

BRAN MUFFINS Josephine Hurlbut 

Two cups bran; two cupfuls flour; two teaspoonfuls salt; two 
cupfuls sour milk or buttermilk ; one-half cup sugar ; one tablespoon- 
ful shortening; one egg; one and one-half teaspoonfuls baking soda; 
one teaspoonful baking powder; one-half cup water. Beat shorten- 
ing, egg and sugar together until creamy; to the sour milk add the 
soda dissolved in boiling water; then the bran, flour, salt, baking 
powder and the egg and sugar mixture. Mix thoroughly and divide 
into buttered gem pans and bake in a hot oven for twenty minutes. 
Sweet milk may be used by substituting three teaspoonfuls of baking 
powder for the soda and baking powder specified above. 

MUFFINS Mrs. Harry M. Boon 

One and three-fourths cups flour; one-half cup sugar; one egg; 
two teaspoonfuls baking powder and three-fourths cup milk. Stir all 
together and bake in muffin tins in hot oven. 

MUFFINS Mrs. Thomas H. Iglehart 

Two cups milk; two eggs; three cups flour; three spoons baking 
powder ; pinch salt. Beat eggs, add milk ; then flour, into which bak- 
ing powder has been put. Bake in hot oven. 

BLUEBERRY MUFFINS Esther Blade 

Beat one egg ; add one cup sweet milk ; two tablespoonfuls sugar ; 
one pinch of salt ; one and one-half cups of flour with two teaspoonfuls 
baking powder ; one cup blueberries floured. Grease tins. Bake in hot 
oven about twenty minutes. 

111 



read , 

iiiiiiiiiiHiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiitiiiiiiiiiiiiiiMiiiiiiii iiniiJiiiuiiiriir nun iiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiifiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiMiiiiiiiiiitnii liiiiniiitiiiiiiiiiiiiiniiiiniiii 

MUFFINS Mrs. George D. Milligan 

Big spoonful of shortening (butter or substitute) ; one egg ; three 
tablespoonfuls sugar; one cup milk; two cups flour; three teaspoon- 
fuls baking powder. Bake twenty or twenty-five minutes. 

COLD WATER MUFFINS Mrs. Edward E. Swadener 

One-half pint of cold water put in a bowl and break two eggs in 
it, beat it until it froths ; then add one cupful flour, one scant teaspoon- 
ful salt. Bake in a moderate oven forty-five minutes. 

SALLY LUNN Mrs. J. P. Cobb 

One cup milk. Quarter cup butter ; one-half cup sugar ; two eggs 
beaten separately; teaspoonful baking powder (sifted in the flour); 
enough flour to make the batter. Bake in quick oven. 

FRENCH COFFEE CAKE Mrs. H. P. Sieh 

One cup butter and lard mixed; one cup granulated sugar; two 
eggs ; one cup milk ; two cups flour (sifted) ; two teaspoonfuls baking 
powder ; one teaspoonful vanilla ; or one-half teaspoonful nutmeg to 
suit taste. Bake fifteen to twenty minutes. 

Frosting: One-half cup granulated sugar; one tablespoonful 
flour; one tablespoonful butter; one tablespoonful cinnamon; mix all 
together and spread over top of cake before baking. 

COFFEE CAKE Mrs. Crouch 

One egg; two tablespoonfuls each of butter and sugar; one cup 
milk; two cups flour; two teaspoonfuls baking powder. Put in pan, 
melt two tablespoonfuls butter and pour over the top, then sprinkle 
thickly with granulated sugar and cinnamon. 

CINNAMON CAKE Mrs. C. E. Upham 

One scant cup sugar; two eggs; one teaspoonful salt; one table- 
spoonful fat or substitute; one cup milk; two cups flour; two tea- 
spoonfuls baking powder. Bake twenty minutes ; take out and spread 
butter on top; also cinnamon and sugar, mixed. Put back in oven one 
minute. 

CINNAMON ROLLS Mrs. A. J. Atwater 

One quart bran ; one pint graham flour ; one teaspoonful salt ; two 
teaspoonfuls baking powder ; one-half teaspoonful soda ; one pint sour 
milk ; scant half pint molasses ; one tablespoonful melted butter ; one 
cup nut meats. Bake one hour. 

BREAKFAST PUFFS Mrs. E. N. Wilder 

One pint sour milk; one teaspoonful soda; flour enough to make 
stiff enough to roll. Fry like doughnuts. Eat with syrup. 

112 



Bread 

iiiiiiiiiiiiiiiitiiMiintiiiiiiiiiiiiiuiiiiiiiiiiriitt iiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiHiiiiiiiiitiiiiMiiu triiiiiiiniiiiiiiiiiiiniiiiiiiiun itiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiniiiiinriiii iiiiiimmii 

TOAST PATTY CASES Mrs. A. J. Atwater 

Cut the crust from a small loaf of baker's bread; divide into two 
or two and one-half inch slices ; toast on all six sides. With a sharp 
knife cut around the inside edge of one side and carefully scoop out 
the bread, leaving a bottom and four toast sides. You can brush the 
inside with melted butter and brown if you wish or use as it is. Use 
as patty shells. 

YORKSHIRE PUDDING Mrs. J. L. Putnam 

Sift one even teaspoonful of salt and one of baking powder twice 
with a pint of flour. Beat two eggs light and add to two cups of 
milk; turn in the sifted flour and mix quickly. Have ready in a 
roasting pan six tablespoonfuls of fat reserved from the drippings 
from the roast of beef. Set it upon the upper grating of the oven. 
When it begins to bubble hard, pour the batter into it and cook 
quickly. Cut into squares and serve with the roast. 

YORKSHIRE PUDDING TO SERVE WITH ROAST BEEP 

Mrs. C. A. Carscadin 

Two cups of flour in a bowl with half a teaspoonful salt; beat 
three eggs and stir into the flour; add two cups milk; stir until 
smooth; turn into a pan with some beef drippings and bake thirty to 
forty minutes. If beef is placed on a rack put the pudding under 
the roast. Cut in squares and serve with the roast. 

POPOVERS Mrs. W. I. Clock 

One cup of flour; one-fourth teaspoonful salt; seven-eighths cup 
of milk; two eggs; one-half teaspoonful of melted butter. Put all 
into a bowl together and beat for five minutes with egg beater. Grease 
muffin pan well, bake in hot oven for thirty minutes. Oven must not 
be hot before putting popovers in. 

POPOVERS Mrs. R. F. Morrow 

Three eggs; one-half teaspoonful salt — beat light; one cup flour; 
one cup milk. Bake one-half hour in hot buttered tins. Makes eight 
popovers. 

FRENCH PANCAKES Mrs. Charles T. Daily 

One cup flour; three eggs, very well beaten separately; a pinch of 
salt; milk enough to make a real thin batter. Have skillet very hot 
and greased and spread batter thin. 

BANANA PANCAKES Mrs. C. S. Junge 

Mash three bananas to a pulp. Beat two eggs well. Add two 
teaspoonfuls of sugar and pinch of salt. In two cups of sour milk 
put small teaspoonful of soda. Mix all together and stir in enough 
flour to make a thin batter and bake on a griddle. 

113 



Bread 

iiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiuiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiuiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiuii iiiiiiiiiiiiMiiiiiiiiiiiiiimiiiiiiniiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiii 

RAW POTATO PANCAKES Mrs. E. R. Hornig 

Peel and grate about eight medium sized raw potatoes, add one 
scant teaspoonful salt, two well beaten eggs. Mix thoroughly. Fry 
in lard on hot griddle to a rich brown color on both sides. 

POTATO PANCAKES Mrs. F. B. Woodland 

Boil three medium sized potatoes. Dry and mash. Add two eggs, 
beaten; one cup flour; one cup milk; one-half teaspoonful salt; dash 
pepper; two teaspoonfuls baking powder. Fry in buttered pan. 

BREAD PANCAKES Mrs. B. R. Hornig 

Cover half a small loaf of stale bread with sour milk, let stand 
over night. Add one tablespoonful salt, two teaspoonfuls soda, two 
eggs, and enough flour to make proper consistency. Fry on hot griddle. 

SOFT WAFFLES Mrs. Thomas Meeks Butler 

Sift together one quart of flour, two teaspoonfuls of baking pow- 
der; one teaspoonful of sugar; one-half teaspoonful salt; mix in one 
tablespoonful of butter, add two well beaten eggs. Beating the yolks 
together, then the whites of the eggs to a stiff froth. Add the yolks 
and one and one-half pints of milk. Add the whites of the eggs after 
mixing the whole into a smooth batter not too thin and pour into 
well greased irons. 

WAFFLES V. F. Hollenberger 

Mix one pint flour: one pint milk to a smooth paste. Add small 
cup butter, barely melted. Add to this the well beaten yolks of three 
eggs, then the beaten whites. Just before baking, add one teaspoon- 
ful baking powder, beat well for two minutes, and bake on very hot 
iron. 

WAFFLES Mrs. J. F. Nicols 

One pint of milk; one-half cup butter; three eggs; flour enough 
to make batter; salt; two heaping teaspoonfuls baking powder. Mix 
milk, butter, yolks of eggs — stir, then add flour and salt. Stir in 
beaten whites of eggs. Just before cooking add baking powder. Beat 
briskly. 

WAFFLES Mrs. Charles T. Daily 

Two cups flour; two teaspoonfuls baking powder; one teaspoon- 
ful salt; three tablespoonfuls melted butter; one and one-half cups 
milk; three eggs. Sift dry ingredients, add yolks, well beaten, milk, 
butter and stiffly beaten whites. Beat well and cook on a hot waffle 
iron, well greased. 

114 



Bread 

iiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiniiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiii illinium iiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiniiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiii 

CARRIE W ATKINS' WAFFLES Bertha Z. Bisbee 

Three eggs; two cups inilk; three tablespoonfuls melted butter; 
three cups flour; one teaspoonful sugar; two teaspoonfuls baking 
powder ; pinch of salt. Beat whites and yolks separately ; add milk to 
yolks, then salt, sugar and butter, then flour and baking powder. 
When the iron is hot, fold in the well beaten whites of eggs and bake 
immediately. 

GLORIFIED HOE CAKES Mrs. Archy S. Corken 

(This recipe won a $10.00 Tribune prize for wartime conservation 
recipes.) 

Two cups yellow cornmeal; one teaspoonful salt; three and one- 
half cups buttermilk ; cottage cheese ; one cup flour ; one tablespoonful 
sugar; one teaspoonful soda; green pepper. Sift together cornmeal, 
flour, salt and sugar into a bowl. Pour three cups buttermilk (or sour 
milk) over the sifted ingredients, and beat well. Dissolve one tea- 
spoonful soda in one cup of sour milk and beat thoroughly into the 
butter. Spread on well greased hot griddle and fry until little bubbles 
cover the surface. Turn quickly. Have ready some cottage cheese 
seasoned with salt and pepper in which has been mixed chopped green 
pepper or pimento. Spread one-half inch thick on top of hoe cake. Cut 
cake into quarters and serve on hot plate. This recipe makes four 
griddle size cakes. 

AMBER SYRUP Mrs. Harry M. Boon 

One cup brown sugar; two cups granulated sugar; two cups boil- 
ing water. Boil five minutes and when cool add ten drops vanilla. It 
is hard to distinguish this from maple syrup. 



115 



Bread 

•■■iiiitiitiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiililiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiltitiiiiiiiiiiitiiiiiliiiiiliiiiiitiiiiiliiiiliiiifiiiiiiiiifiiiiliiliilliliiiiititiliiiifiiiiiiiiiiiifiiitiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiifiitittiiiiiitl 



116 



CAKES 



Now, now the mirth comes 
With the cake full of plums." 

— Herrick. 



MARSHMALLOW CAKE Mrs. J. H. Shanley 

One-half cup butter; one and one-half cups sugar; two and one- 
half cups flour; one-half cup milk; two level teaspoonfuls baking 
powder ; five eggs ; one teaspoonf ul vanilla. Bake in layers and spread 
with the marshmallow paste between layers and on top; also marsh- 
mallows cut in half. 

Marshmallow Paste: Three-fourths cup sugar; one-fourth cup 
milk, boiled together six minutes. Melt one-fourth pound marshmal- 
lows, add two tablespoonfuls water; combine with the boiled sugar 
and milk, add vanilla and beat until stiff enough to spread. 

GOLD CAKE Mrs. Charles S. Daily 

One and one-half cups sugar ; three-fourths cup butter ; four yolks 
of eggs; three whites of eggs; three-fourths cup milk; two cups flour; 
two teaspoonfuls baking powder; one teaspoonful flavoring. Cream 
butter and sugar, then add the beaten yolks of eggs, add flavoring to 
this, then add milk and flour alternately, first sifting flour and baking 
powder together. Beat the whites of eggs to a stiff froth and add last, 
folding them in gently. Bake in a loaf cake pan forty minutes in a 
modern oven. 

COCOANUT CREAM CAKE Mrs. H. S. Mount 

One-half cup butter; one and one-half cup sugar; one cup cold 
water; three cups sifted flour (sifted three times); two heaping 
teaspoonfuls baking powder ; whites four eggs beaten stiff ; flavor with 
vanilla. Cream butter and sugar. Add one-third water and beat 
thoroughly ; then add one cup flour and beat again. Add second one- 
third cup of water and second cup of flour and continue beating. 
Into last cup of flour add baking powder and add last one-third cup 
of water with the last cup of flour and beat thoroughly. Then flavor 
and fold in the beaten whites of eggs; carefully put in three layer 
tins. Grate a whole cocoanut. Whip one pint of cream. After cakes 
are cool put whipped cream on first layer, then cover with freshly 
grated cocoanut. Continue the same until the last layer is well cov- 
ered with whipped cream, and then cocoanut. 

117 



Cakes 

llllllllllllllllllllllllllllllltllllllllllllllllllllllll Illllllllllllllllllll Illlllllllllllllllllllllllilllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllll 

ORANGE CAKE Mrs. Martin K. Northam 

One-tliird cup butter ; one cup sugar ; grated rind of one orange ; 
one-half cup milk or water ; one and one-half cups sifted pastry flour ; 
two level teaspoonfuls baking powder; yolks of two eggs, beaten 
light; whites of two eggs, beaten dry. This makes two small layers. 

Filling: The unbeaten white of one egg; add to this one-fourth 
cup orange pulp and juice, with the rotary egg beater gradually beat 
in one and one-half cups powdered sugar, beating it slowly. When 
that is stiff enough to hold its shape spread upon the cake. Long 
beating makes this icing spongy and white. 

EGGLESS CAKE Mrs. W. H. Muschlet 

One cup apple sauce, unsweetened; one teaspoonful soda; one 
cup of sugar; one-half cup butter; one and one-half cup flour — de- 
pends on consistency of apple sauce; one teaspoonful ground cinna- 
mon; one teaspoonful ground allspice; one-half teaspoonful cloves; 
one-half teaspoonful nutmeg ; one-half cup citron, cut in small pieces ; 
one or over cups of nuts. Mix flour, nuts and citron well. Cream 
butter and sugar till it pops; add apple sauce; which turns brown. 
Then add spices, flour, nuts and citron. Bake in moderate oven in 
flat pan about 35 minutes, probably 40 minutes. If preferred iced, cut 
in squares. Make double quantity, as the longer kept the better. 

LADY BALTIMORE CAKE Mrs. L. B. Maxwell 

Take one cupful of butter ; two cupf uls sugar ; three and one-half 
cupfuls of flour; one cupful sweet milk; whites of six eggs; two tea- 
spoonfuls baking powder; and one teaspoonful rose-water. Cream 
the butter, add the sugar gradually, beating continually; then the 
milk and flavoring; next the flour and baking powder and lastly 
the stiffly beaten whites of eggs, which should be folded into the 
dough. Bake in three layer cake tins in quite hot oven. To make the 
filling, dissolve three cups of sugar in one cupful boiling water; cook 
it until it threads ; then pour it onto the stiffly beaten whites of three 
eggs, stirring constantly. To this icing add one cupful of chopped 
raisins, one cupful of nutmeats (pecans preferred) and five figs cut 
into very thin strips. This makes enough icing for top and sides of 
cake. 

TUTTI FRUTTI CAKE Mrs. Wm. J. Maiden 

Two tablespoonfuls butter; one cupful sugar; one cupful milk; 
one egg ; two cupfuls flour ; two heaping teaspoonfuls baking powder ; 
one-half cupful dates (pitted and chopped) ; one-half cupful English 
walnuts, chopped; one-half cupful raisins or figs (or both), chopped; 
three tablespoonfuls chocolate or cocoa ; one teaspoonful vanilla. This 
makes two layers. 

Filling: Three cupfuls 4x sugar; three tablespoonfuls cocoa; six 
tablespoonfuls melted butter; six tablespoonfuls hot coffee; one tea- 
spoonful vanilla. Mix well and put on cake. 

118 



Cakes 

IIIIIIIIIIIIIIllItlllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllltlltlltlltlllllltlllllllllllllllllllllMIIIIHIIIltlllllllllllllHIIIlIllllIIIIIIIlIlltllltllllllllllllllllllllllllllltllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllliu 

CREAM CAKE Mrs. W. S. Holabird 

One-half cup butter; one cup sugar; yolks of two eggs beaten 
light; one and three-fourths cups sifted pastry flour; two level tea- 
spoonfuls baking powder ; one-half cup cold water ; whites of two eggs 
beaten dry ; flavoring to suit. 

Cream Filling: One-fourth cup sifted flour; one cup hot milk; 
one-third cup sugar ; one-fourth teaspoonf ul salt ; one egg beaten light ; 
one ounce chocolate ; one teaspoonful vanilla extract. Mix flour and 
salt with a very little cold milk; stir into the hot milk and cook ten 
minutes, add the chocolate and stir until it is melted and evenly 
blended with the flour mixture. Then beat in the egg mixed with 
the sugar, and lastly the vanilla. 

LADY FINGER CAKE Mrs. C. A. Bowman 

Five eggs, beaten separately; six lady fingers,, browned and 
grated ; three-fourths cup almonds, ground fine ; one cup sugar ; vanilla 
to taste. Mix all together, putting in stiffly beaten whites last. Bake 
in two layers in moderate oven. 

Filling: Yolk of one egg; one and one-half teaspoonf uls corn 
starch; sugar and vanilla to taste. Spread between layers and put 
whipped cream on top. 

WEARY WILLY Mrs. C. A. Carscadin 

Whites of two eggs broken in a cup ; enough soft butter to make 
the cup half full; fill the cup with milk. Sift one and one-half cups 
pastry flour; one cup sugar; two teaspoonfuls baking powder and 
pinch of salt. Turn the cup of liquid into the dry ingredients, flavor 
and beat ten minutes. Bake in rather slow oven in layers or loaf. If 
well beaten this is a delicious, fine grained cake. 

SUNSHINE CAKES Charlotte Pangburn 

Seven eggs; the whites and yolks beaten separately and very 
stiffly. Then add one-fourth teaspoonful each of salt and cream of 
tartar; then fold in one cup of sugar sifted three times; also one cup 
of flour sifted three times, then flavoring, preferably orange flavor. 
Bake in a slow oven forty-five minutes. 

DELICIOUS WHITE CAKE Mrs. W. F. Barnard 

One and one-half cups sugar; one-half cup butter; one cup sweet 
milk ; two cups flour ; one teaspoonful baking powder ; whites of four 
eggs. Cream sugar and butter, add milk, then flour and baking powder. 
Lastly, add whites of eggs, stirring very little after whites are in. 

WHITE CAKE (LAYER) Mrs. Knap 

Whites of eight eggs; one and one-fourth cups of granulated 
sugar ; one-half cup water ; three-fourths cup butter ; two and one-half 
cups flour; two heaping teaspoonfuls of baking powder. Flavor. 

119 



Cakes 

iiNiniiitniitiiiiMiiHiitiiiiiiiiiitiiiNiinniiiuiiniiiniiMiiiHiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiitiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiininiiiiiiitiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiitMiiniiiiiiiiiiiii tiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiinii iinniirt 

SUNSHINE CAKE Mary Roberts 

Whites of seven eggs; yolks of five eggs; two-thirds cup flour, 
sifted five times ; one cup sugar ; one pinch salt ; one-third teaspoonful 
cream of tartar; extract to taste. Beat whites very stiff, then add 
sugar; beat lightly, then add yolks beat thoroughly; add flour, stir 
lightly; then add extract. Put cream of tartar in eggs when half 
beaten. 

GOOD LAYER CAKE Mrs. H. D. Sheldon 

One cup sugar ; one-half cup butter ; two eggs ; one cup milk ; 
two and one-half cups flour ; two teaspoonfuls baking powder ; flavor- 
ing. Cream sugar and butter, add eggs beaten lightly, then milk. 
Sift flour three times before measuring, baking powder with flour in 
final sifting. 

GOOD LAYER CAKE Mrs. W. F. Barnard 

One-half cup butter; one cup sugar; one-half cup sweet milk; 
three eggs, beaten separately; one and one-half cups flour; one and 
one-half teaspoonfuls baking powder. Cream butter and sugar; add 
milk, yolks, flour and baking powder, and fold in whites. Bake in two 
layers or loaf. 

GRAFTON CAKE Mrs. Floyd E. Jennison 

Beat two tablespoonfuls of butter (or substitute) to a cream; 
add gradually one and one-half cups of sugar; the yolks of two eggs 
(beaten light) and one cupful of warm water. Stir in two and one- 
half cups of pastry flour and beat continuously for five minutes. Add 
two teaspoonfuls of baking powder, one of vanilla and beat again. 
Now add the stiffly beaten whites, folded in carefully. Bake in two 
layers. 

THE ROBERT E. LEE CAKE Mrs. Deborah Kaufman 

Three eggs; one cup sugar; one-half cup hot water; one and one- 
fourth cups flour; one teaspoonful baking powder; the grated rind of 
one orange. Beat sugar and yolks of eggs with small portion of orange 
peel and half of the beaten whites of eggs. Add hot water, and last 
the sifted flour with baking powder, and pinch of salt. Bake in two 
layers in hot oven. 

Filling: The rest of the grated rind of orange, half cup sugar, 
the remaining whites of eggs ; whip together and place between layers 
while cake is hot. 

CRUMB CAKE Mrs. A. Donald Campbell 

One cup sugar; one cup flour; one-half cup butter; rub all to- 
gether with one-half teaspoonful cinnamon and nutmeg ; one-half tea- 
spoonful salt. Set aside one-half cup of mixture. Then to portion left 
add one good sized cup of flour, two teaspoonfuls baking powder, 
one-half cup of milk, one egg. Mix thoroughly and put in baking 
pan and sprinkle the mixture, set aside, on top and bake slowly. 

120 



Cakes 

tiiiiiiiiiiliiiiiiiifiiiiiifiiiliiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiHiiiiiiliiiMiiiiiimim 

WHEATLESS SPONGE CAKE Sabin School 

Four eggs; three-fourths cup sugar; one-fourth cup corn starch; 
one-fourth cup potato flour; one-fourth teaspoonful vanilla. Beat 
whites of eggs stiff, add sugar and beat again. Add yolks beaten 
separately; fold in corn starch and potato flour sifted together; add 
vanilla. Bake in slow oven thirty -five minutes. 

SPONGE CAKE Mrs. E. P. Rowen 

Two eggs, well beaten together; one cup sugar, beat into eggs 
for five minutes; one cup flour; one heaping teaspoonful baking 
powder in flour ; one-half cup boiling water added last. Put into oven 
immediately. 

PRUNE CAKE Mrs. C. B. Martin 

One and one-half cups sugar and two tablespoonfuls butter 
creamed ; yolks of three eggs ; white of one egg ; add one cup chopped 
prunes, sweetened and cooked; English walnuts; one teaspoonful cin- 
namon; one-fourth teaspoonful cloves; little nutmeg; one cup sweet 
milk ; level teaspoonful soda ; heaping teaspoonful baking powder ; two 
and one-half cups flour. Makes three layers. 

Icing: Cream two cups pulverized sugar and one tablespoonful 
butter ; add whites of two eggs beaten stiff. 

WAR CAKE Mrs. M. A. Flanders 

One-half cup corn syrup; four scant tablespoonfuls butter; one- 
half cup milk; one egg, white and yolk beaten separately; fourteen 
graham crackers rolled fine ; two tablespoonfuls flour ; one teaspoon- 
ful baking powder; one-half teaspoonful vanilla; two tablespoonfuls 
chopped nuts and two tablespoonfuls raisins. 

EGGLESS, MILKLESS, BUTTERLESS CAKE Mrs. C. E. Seaton 

Put in a saucepan one cupful of brown sugar ; one cupful of water, 
two cupf uls of seeded raisins ; one-third cupful of lard ; one teaspoon- 
ful of cinnamon, one-quarter teaspoonful nutmeg; one-half teaspoon- 
ful cloves, ground, and a pinch of salt. Place over the fire and boil 
for five minutes. Let cool, then add one teaspoonful soda dissolved 
in a little hot water ; two cupfuls flour, in which one-half teaspoonful of 
baking powder has been sifted. Put in a loaf cake pan and bake one 
hour in a moderate oven. 

BUTTERLESS, EGGLESS, MILKLESS CAKE Mrs. M. A. Flanders 

Two cups raisins ; one-half teaspoonful allspice ; one-half teaspoon- 
ful cinnamon; two tablespoonfuls shortening; one-half teaspoonful 
salt ; one cup boiling water ; one cup brown sugar ; one-half cup dates ; 
boil five minutes ; when cool, add two cups flour, one teaspoonful baking 
soda, dissolved in warm water. Bake in a loaf. 

121 



Cakes 

t liiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiuiiiiii iiiiiiiiiiini inn iiiuiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiii iiiiiiiiiiuiii iiiiiiiiiuiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiii mimiiiiiHl 

BLUEBERRY CAKE Mrs. Henry Crossman 

One quart of flour; three tablespoonfuls sugar; one teaspoonful 
baking powder; pinch of salt; two eggs; two cupfuls milk; piece of 
butter size of egg. Scatter baking powder, salt and sugar into flour 
and sift well, add the beaten eggs, melted butter and milk ; stir all to- 
gether a few minutes, then add berries, slightly floured. Bake in long 
square tin for twenty minutes or half an hour. 

SPONGE CAKE Mrs. Earl Combs 

Three eggs; four tablespoonfuls of cold water; one cup pow- 
dered sugar; one cup flour and a pinch of salt; two teaspoonfuls 
baking powder ; beaten whites of two eggs ; bake in loaf or layers. 

FIG CAKE Mrs. J. E. Kelly 

One-half cup raisins ; one-half cup figs, cut fine ; a level teaspoon- 
ful soda; one cup boiling water. Sit to one side while mixing; one 
cup sugar; one-half cup butter; one egg; one teaspoonful lemon ex- 
tract ; one heaping teaspoonful cinnamon ; one-half teaspoonful cloves ; 
two cups flour ; add first mixture and bake in moderate oven. 

Frosting: One and one-half cups powdered sugar; one-half cup 
butter, creamed together; two tablespoonfuls grated chocolate; two 
tablespoonfuls strong coffee; one teaspoonful vanilla. Do not cook 
frosting. 

LAYER CAKE WITH APPLE FILLING Mrs. W. F. Becker 

Three tablespoonfuls butter; one scant cup sugar; one scant cup 
milk ; yolks of two eggs ; one one-fourths cups flour ; two teaspoonfuls 
baking powder ; one teaspoonful vanilla. Cream butter and sugar and 
add eggs ; beat five minutes ; add milk ; then add flour sifted with bak- 
ing powder; add vanilla, and beat five minutes and put in two layer 
pans, put filling between layers and on top. 

Filling : Whites of two eggs ; one-half cup sugar ; two large grated 
apples ; one teaspoonful vanilla. Beat one-half hour. 

APPLE SAUCE CAKE Mrs. H. D. Sheldon 

One-fourth cup butter ; one cup sugar ; one egg yolk ; one teaspoon- 
ful cinnamon ; one-half teaspoonful cloves ; little nutmeg ; one cup ap- 
ple sauce; one level teaspoonful soda; one cup raisins; two cups flour; 
pinch of salt. Cream butter and sugar, add egg well beaten and soda 
dissolved in the apple sauce ; add raisins, mixed with flour and spices. 

Frosting: One cup of confectioners' sugar; two tablespoonfuls 
melted butter, enough hot water to spread. 

DATE CAKE Mrs. Edward S. Smith 

One cup of dates chopped fine; sprinkle over them one cup of 
boiling water, and one scant teaspoonful of soda. Let stand while 
you mix the cake. One cup of sugar ; one tablespoonf ul of butter ; one 
and one-third cups of flour ; one-half cup of nut meats ; vanilla. Mix 
and add dates. Bake slowly thirty-five minutes. 

122 



Cakes 

liiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiMiiiiiiiiiiititiiniiiiiiHiiiiiiiiiiiniiiiiiiiiiruiitiiiMiiiiiiiiiiiiinrHiii ihiiiii: iiiiiiuiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiitiiiiiiiiiiiitiiiiMiiiiiiTiiiiiiiiiiiiiiuiiiiiiiiiiiiiiA 

CHOCOLATE FUDGE CAKE Mrs. J. G. Sherer 

Dissolve two ounces chocolate in five tablespoonfuls boiling water. 
Cream one-half cup butter, adding gradually one and one-half cupfuls 
sugar ; add yolks of four eggs, beaten thoroughly, then add the choco- 
late; one-half cupful milk; one and three-fourths cupfuls flour; two 
level teaspoonfuls baking powder; one teaspoonful vanilla and add 
beaten whites last. 

Filling: Two cups sugar; one cup milk; one-half cup chocolate; 
butter size of a walnut. Boil until thick enough and beat until rather 
stiff. Spread on cake. 

CHOCOLATE CAKE Sharlotte Pangburn 

Two cups of brown sugar ; one-half cup of butter ; one-half cup of 
sour milk; two eggs. Cream this together. Then dissolve one tea- 
spoonful (level) soda in one-half cup of hot water; one teaspoonful 
baking powder. Grate one-third cake of Baker's chocolate; add hot 
water and soda and stir with cake. Lastly add two heaping cups of 
flour. For layer or loaf cake. 

CHOCOLATE CAKE Mrs. T. C. Hollenberger 

One-half cake chocolate ; three-fourths cup brown sugar ; one-half 
cup sweet milk ; cook until smooth. Add one teaspoonful vanilla. 
When cold, add to the following: Cake one-half cup butter, one cup 
brown sugar, two eggs, one-half cup milk, one and one-half cups flour, 
one teaspoonful soda. Beat whites of eggs separately. 

GRAHAM CRACKER CAKE Mrs. Paul Klein-exel 

One-third cup butter; one cup of sugar; three-fourths cup milk; 
three eggs beaten separately ; one package of graham crackers, ground 
fine ; one cup of nuts, one walnut ; two teaspoons baking powder. Bake 
in two layers for twenty minutes. 

HICKORY NUT CAKE Mrs. William S. Wood 

One and one-half cupfuls sugar ; one-half cupful butter ; one cup- 
ful sour milk; one teaspoonful soda; two eggs; three cupfuls flour; 
one cupful stoned raisins ; one and one-half cupfuls nut meats, cut up, 
and one teaspoonful cinnamon. 

POTATOE CAKE Mrs. William Molt 

One cup cold boiled potatoes, grated; two cups flour; one cup 
grated chocolate; two cups sugar; three-fourths cup butter; one-half 
cup each of chopped almonds and raisins ; one-half teaspoonful each of 
ground cloves, cinnamon and vanilla ; five eggs, beat in one at a time ; 
one cup sour cream, or milk ; one teaspoonful soda. Bake one hour. 

LIZZIE'S NO-EGG CAKE Mrs. C. A. Carscadin 

One cup sour milk ; one teaspoonful soda ; one cup chopped raisins ; 
two cups flour; one teaspoonful each of cinnamon and cloves; one 
cup granulated sugar ; one-half cup butter and a pinch of salt. 

123 



/. 



Cakes 

iiiiiiiiMiiiiitiiiitiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiuiiiiiiiiiiiniiiiiiinni iiitiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiininiiiiiiiiiiiii iiiiiiiiniiiiiiiiiiiiiiitiiiMiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiniiiiniiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiniiiiiiiiiiiiri 

POOR MAN'S CAKE Mrs. K. Larson 

One tablespoon butter ; one cup sugar ; one teaspoonf ul soda ; one 
teaspoonful baking powder; two cups flour; one cup raisins; two tea- 
spoons vanilla; one teaspoonful allspice; one cup sour milk; one egg 
beaten. 

RYE BREAD TORTE Mrs. Harry M. Boon 

Four eggs, separate yolks and whites; three-fourths cup butter; 
one and three-fourths cups each of sugar and rye bread. Let the rye 
bread dry so it can crumble. Baked in two layers with whipped cream 
between makes a very rich cake. 

DARK CAKE Mrs. C. A. Carscadin 

One-half cup brown sugar ; one egg ; one-quarter cup each of but- 
ter, molasses and strong coffee; one and one-quarter cups flour; one- 
half cup each of raisins and currants; one-half teaspoonful each of 
soda, cinnamon and cloves; one-quarter teaspoonful mace. Mix to- 
ether in above order and bake. 



EVIL'S CAKE Mrs. R. H. Wheeler 

Part 1: One cup light brown sugar; one cupful Baker's choco- 
late (two squares) ; one-half cupful milk ; thoroughly cook in double 
boiler and when cool mix with part 2. 

Part 2 : One-half cupful butter (scant) ; one cupful brown sugar ; 
yolks of three eggs ; one-half cupful milk ; two cupf uls flour ; one tea- 
spoonful soda dissolved in two tablespoonfuls warm water. 

Chocolate Frosting: One cupful sugar; butter size of a walnut; 
four tablespoonfuls cream; dessertspoonful vanilla; two squares 
Baker's chocolate. Cook in double boiler slowly. 

White Frosting : Whites of four eggs ; two cupfuls sugar ; two ta- 
blespoonfuls water ; one cup nutmeats ; two teaspoonfuls vanilla. Cook 
six or seven minutes in double boiler. 

DEVIL'S FOOD CAKE Sue C. Woodman 

Yolk of one egg; one-half cup milk; two squares Baker's choco- 
late ; one tablespoonful butter. Cook till thick. Add one cup sugar ; 
one-half cup milk; one-half cup flour; one teaspoonful soda; one tea- 
spoonful vanilla ; bake in two layers. 

Filling : One tablespoonful cocoa ; one tablespoonful corn starch ; 
one-half cup sugar ; a small piece butter ; one-half cup chopped raisins ; 
one cup milk; one teaspoonful vanilla. Cook until thick. 

SPICE CAKE Mrs. Harry M. Boon 

Three-fourths cup sour milk ; three-fourths teaspoonful soda ; one 
cup sugar ; one-half cup chopped raisins ; one-quarter cup chopped wal- 
nut meats; piece of butter size of an egg; two eggs; two level tea- 
spoonfuls cinnamon; one-half teaspoonful each nutmeg and ginger; 
one and one-half cups flour, sifted. Bake in medium oven three-quar- 
ters of an hour. 

124 



Cakes 

MIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIUIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIM 

SOUTHERN PORK CAKE Miss Katharine Orr 

One-half pound fat salt pork, minced; one and one-half pounds 
seeded raisins; three eggs; five cups flour; one cup nut meats; two 
eups (large) sugar; one cup of molasses; one teaspoonful soda in dry 
flour; two teaspoonfuls cinnamon in dry flour; one teaspoonful cloves 
in dry flour. Pour one pint boiling water over salt pork in bowl, and 
add all ingredients, whip eggs and put in last next to flour. Bake one 
hour. 

MRS. ROOSEVELT'S RECIPE FOR SPICE CAKE 

Mrs. Theodore Roosevelt 

One cup butter; two cups sugar; one cup milk; four eggs; four 
cups flour; two teaspoonfuls Royal Baking Powder; one teaspoonful 
ground cinnamon; one-half teaspoonful nutmeg. 

BLACK FRUIT CAKE Mrs. N. L. Hurlbut 

Four pounds dried brown sugar ; one pound flour, browned ; three- 
fourths pound butter ; one wine glass each of milk, mixed with one of 
brandy and one of wine; one teaspoonful of soda; one cup molasses; 
three pounds currants; three pounds raisins; one pound citron; ten 
eggs; two teaspoonfuls each allspice and cloves; two tablespoonfuls 
cinnamon and one whole nutmeg. Cream butter and sugar together; 
mix soda in the milk with the brandy and wine; then molasses and 
spices ; beat eggs separately. Put paper in bottom of pans and bake 
in slow oven two hours. 

CINNAMON CAKE Bertha Z. Bisbee 

One cup each of granulated sugar and milk; two cups flour; a 
pinch of salt; one tablespoonful butter or lard; two teaspoonfuls bak- 
ing powder ; one egg. Put batter in pan, sprinkle brown sugar thickly 
over the top, also cinnamon ; put lumps of butter all over top. Bakes 
in about fifteen minutes. 



125 



Cakes 

aifiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiitiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiitii*>ii(>iiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiifiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiitiiiiiiiiiiiitiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiitiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiniia 



126 



FILLINGS AND ICINGS 



COCOANUT FILLING 

Boil together one cupful sugar and one-half cupful water until 
they form a soft ball when tested in cold water; pour slowly while hot 
into the stiffly beaten whites of two eggs, beating all the time. When 
stiff add one teaspoonful vanilla extract and one cupful cocoanut. Put 
between layers of a cake. 

CUSTARD FILLING. 

Dissolve two tablespoonfuls cornstarch in a little milk, put in 
double boiler with a scant cupful milk and one teaspoonful butter; 
stir until it begins to thicken; beat the yolks of two eggs and one- 
half cupful sugar until very light; pour on some of the boiling cus- 
tard ; now turn this back into the double boiler and stir a few minutes, 
adding flavoring. When cool spread between layers of cake and 
sprinkle cocoanut or ground nuts over; cover top of cake with thin 
layer of the custard and sprinkle with nuts. 

ORANGE FILLING Miss Edmonds 

Mix one-half cup sugar and two tablespoonfuls flour; add grated 
rind of one-half orange and one-quarter cupful of orange juice and 
one-half tablespoonf ul lemon juice ; one egg, slightly beaten ; melt one 
teaspoonful butter and add the mixture, stirring constantly until it 
reaches the boiling point. Cool before using. 

MAPLE FILLING Mrs. Louis Geyler 

Two-thirds cup maple syrup, fill up cup with water; add one- 
fourth cup sugar; one-fourth cup cornstarch, and one-fourth cup but- 
ter. When cool add one-half pint bottle whipped cream. 

MOCHA FILLING Sue C. Woodman 

One tablespoonf ul butter; one tablespoonful cocoa; one table- 
spoonful cold coffee; one and one-fourth cup powdered sugar; one tea- 
spoonful vanilla. 

MOCHA FILLING 

One-half pint milk ; one-half cup black coffee ; one-half cup sugar ; 
yolks of three eggs; three tablespoonfuls blanched almonds chopped 
fine. Icing of three whites and chocolate. 

127 



Fillings and Icings 

iiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiitiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiitiiiiiiiii iiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiuiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiinnni 

MOCHA CAKE FILLING Mrs. Louis Geyler 

One large cup strong coffee ; two-thirds cup sugar; one tablespoon- 
ful cornstarch; cook until clear. Before taking off stove, add large 
dessertspoonful of butter. When cool, add one-half pint bottle cream 
whipped. 

FIG FILLING 

Cook in a double boiler one-half pound figs, finely chopped; one- 
third cupful sugar ; one-third cupful boiling water and one tablespoon- 
ful lemon juice, until thick enough to spread. 

NUT FILLING FOR CAKE Mrs. E. R. Blew 

One cup sour cream, one cup hickory nuts chopped fine, one cup 
sugar. Cook in double boiler till thick enough to spread. 

SOUR CREAM FILLING FOR LAYER CAKE Mrs. W. F. Becker 

One cup sour whipping cream; one-half cup sugar; one-half cup 
walnuts chopped ; one teaspoonful vanilla. 

LEMON FILLING Mrs. G. D. Prentiss 

One cupful sugar; one egg; one tablespoonful butter; juice and 
grated rind of one lemon. Boil over hot water until thick and creamy. 

LEMON ICING Mrs. J. T. Wilcox 

Whites of two eggs beaten to a froth, one pound powdered sugar 
and one lemon grated. 

WHITE ICING AND FILLING Mrs. De Vries 

Cook together one and one-half cupfuls sugar and one-third cupful 
water until it threads ; let cool a little and break in the whites of two 
eggs well beaten. Beat until cold and put between layers and on 
top. 

MARSHMALLOW ICING Mrs. W. D. Hurlbut 

One cup granulated sugar; one-fourth cup water; stir until dis- 
solved and boil until it forms soft balls when dropped into cold water. 
One-half pound marshmallows in double boiler with two tablespoon- 
fuls hot water, stir until melted; now pour hot syrup gradually into 
this mixture, beating constantly, add flavor, beat until cold. 

CHOCOLATE ICING Mrs. E. G. Cooley 

One cupful granulated sugar ; one egg ; three tablespoonf uls sweet 
milk; two squares Baker's chocolate. Stir the whole egg, unbeaten, 
into the sugar ; add the milk and grated chocolate. Cook, stirring con- 
stantly, for three minutes; flavor with one teaspoonful vanilla. Let 
cool before putting on c<ake. 

128 



Fillings and Icings 

(HllllllllllllllIIMIIIIIIIlllllllIMItllliniMIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIlMIMIIIIIIIIIMIIlllllllllillUllllllllllllllllllltlllllllllllllllllllMIIMllllllIIIIIII Hill III III llllllllllllllllllinillllltllllllllltl* 

CHOCOLATE CREAM FROSTING Miss Nora Edmonds 

Beat the whites of two eggs ; stir into them enough powdered su- 
gar to make a smooth paste ; add one teaspoonful vanilla. Spread on 
cake. Melt enough bitter chocolate to make a coating over this. 

QUICK ICING Miss Shay 

Four tablespoonfuls butter creamed, add six tablespoonfuls su- 
gar; spread on cake, using a knife dipped in hot water to make it 
smooth. 

BOILED ICING 

Two cupfuls sugar, one-fourth teaspoonful cream of tartar and 
one-half cupful cold water. Stir until it boils. When it just drops, 
beat in seven teaspoonfuls to the stiffly beaten whites of two eggs; 
then boil the syrup until it threads, add to the eggs, beating all the 
time. 

FRUIT ICING 

Into one-fourth cupful of orange, lemon or other strained fruit 
juice rub as much sifted confectioner's sugar as will form a smooth, 
glossy icing ; it must be thick enough to be applied without running. 

TUTTI FRUTTI ICING Mrs. A. Donald Campbell 

Mix with boiled icing one ounce each of citron, candied cherries, 
seedless raisins, pineapple and almonds cut very fine. 



129 



Fillings and Icings 

VIlllll tliM M1JII Mil lllllll t I11IIM111 MlIlllIllllllIIIlIIMrillliri II till IM III MM MI1II1III1 IlItllllllMI lllf 111 111 M 1 1 II Mil liril ttlllll 1 1I11M1 lllllf 1 lilt II IM ^ 



130 



COOKIES 



WALNUT JUMBLES 

One and one-half cupfuls of sifted pastry flour; one teaspoonful 
of baking powder; one-half cupful of granulated sugar; one-quarter 
cupful of butter ; one-half cupful of shredded walnuts ; one egg ; one- 
quarter cupful of milk. 

Method : Sift flour, baking powder and sugar together, rub but- 
ter in as for pie pastry. Beat egg well and add milk. Beat this into 
the flour, then add "nuts. Knead lightly and roll half an inch thick. 
Now strew sugar over, press down with rolling pin and cut into small 
rings with a doughnut cutter. 

SPICE JUMBLES 

Use the recipe of Walnut Jumbles with these variations: Take 
three-quarters cupful of mixed chopped nuts, one teaspoonful of mixed 
spices, cinnamon, cloves and allspice, and if need be add more milk 
if dough gets too thick. Top may be strewn with chopped nuts also. 

ANISE TEA CAKES 

Pour eggs; one pound of fine granulated sugar; one pound of 
sifted pastry flour; one teaspoonful of fine anise seed. 

Method : Beat eggs and sugar for at least half an hour, then beat 
in gradually as much of the flour that is needed to be able to handle 
at once. Take onto a floured board and using rest of flour kneed and 
roll about half an inch thick and cut with small round cutters. Now 
brush flat tins with melted wax, strew anise seed over and place the 
cakes half an inch apart. Let stand over night, then bake a golden 
color. They will look as though they were frosted. 

CHILDREN'S SPONGE CAKES Mrs. C. A. Carscadin 

One and one-half cups flour; two teaspoonfuls baking powder; 
one cup sugar ; two eggs broken in a cup and cup filled with milk or 
cream. Stir all together in a mixing bowl, beat hard for iive minutes 
and bake about ten minutes in muffin pans. 

FRENCH TEA CAKES Mrs. C. A. Carscadin 

One-half cup brown sugar; one-half cup butter; creamed; one- 
half cup milk ; one teaspoonful cinnamon ; one cup Quaker oats ; one 
cup flour ; two teaspoonfuls baking powder ; two eggs and one cup of 
raisins. Bake in muffin tins. 

131 



Cookies 

liiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiifiitiiiiiifiifiiiiiiiiiitittiiiiiiiiitiiiiiiiiitfiiiiiiiiiiitiiiiiiifiiiiiiiiiiitiiiiiitiiiiiiiiitiitiiiiiiiiitiiiiiitiiiiiitiiiiitiiiiiiiiiiiiifiiiitiiifiiiiiiiiifiitiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiia 

HOT TEA CAKES 

Two tablespoonfuls butter; one-half cup sugar; one-eighth tea- 
spoonful salt; one egg; one and one-half cups flour; two teaspoonfuls 
baking powder ; three-fourths cup milk ; half teaspoonful vanilla. Mix 
in order given and bake in muffin tins ten or twenty minutes. 

LIGHTNING CAKE Mrs. W. F. Barnard 

One large cup flour; one large teaspoonful baking powder; one 
scant cup sugar. Put two eggs in cup and fill up with milk. Put sugar, 
flour and baking powder together, throw in milk and eggs; then add 
five level tablespoonfuls of soft butter, vanilla, and then salt. Bake 
in gem pans. 

AFTERNOON TEA CAKES Mrs. W. N. Hurlbut 

One cup butter ; half cup sugar, beaten to a cream ; two cups flour ; 
one teaspoonful baking powder; two eggs. Drop the mixture from a 
teaspoon into a floured pan and bake in moderate oven. 

BROWNIES Mrs. W. N. Hurlbut 

Two eggs; one cup sugar; half cup butter; half cup flour; two 
squares melted Baker's chocolate; half cup chopped walnuts; one tea- 
spoonful vanilla. Beat butter, sugar and unbeaten eggs together. 
Bake on buttered paper and cut while hot, in squares. 

EGG ROLLS Mrs. W. N. Hurlbut 

One pint flour; two eggs; half teaspoonful salt; half cup milk; 
four tablespoonfuls butter; three level teaspoonfuls baking powder. 
Sift flour with dry ingredients ; cut butter into flour with a knife, beat 
eggs until light and add to milk. Add this to flour and mix lightly. 
Roll out on floured board till three-quarters of an inch thick. Shape, 
brush over tops with white of egg, and sprinkle with granulated sugar. 
Bake fifteen minutes in quick oven. 

SOUTHERN COOKIES Mrs. T. D. McMicken 

One cup butter; one and one-half cups sugar, creamed together; 
beat in three eggs; one cup milk; three cups flour; two teaspoonfuls 
baking powder; one cup chopped nuts; one-half cup raisins. Drop 
on buttered tins. 

OATMEAL MACAROONS Mary Roberts 

Three cups rolled Quaker oats ; three teaspoonfuls baking powder ; 
one tablespoonful butter; one cup white sugar; two eggs; one-half 
teaspoonful almond extract. Cream butter and sugar, then add eggs, 
well beaten. Mix rolled oats and baking powder together, add to but- 
ter and eggs. Drop one-half teaspoonful, about two inches apart, in 
well buttered pan. Bake in moderate oven. If not quite stiff enough 
add more rolled oats. 

132 



Cookies 

iuihuii iiiiiiiiiiiuiiiiiiiiiiii nun nniiiim iiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiinuiiiiiiiiiiii nmuumimimmummuHmmuiumm iiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiuu 

MACAROONS Mrs. W. D. Hurlbut 

One tablespoonful butter and one-half scant cup sugar creamed. 
One well beaten egg ; one and one-half cups dry oatmeal ; one teaspoon- 
ful each of salt and baking powder and two teaspoonfuls almond ex- 
tract. Stir and drop on well greased pans. 

MACAROONS 

Beaten whites of two eggs ; one and three-fourths cupfuls granu- 
lated sugar ; two cups shredded cocoanut ; one-half cupful chopped wal- 
nut meats ; two cupfuls corn flakes. Mix all together and drop on well 
buttered tins. Bake until brown. 

SOFT WHITE COOKIES WITH RAISIN FILLING 

Mrs. M. A. Flanders 
One and one-half cups sugar; three-fourths cup shortening; one 
egg; one-half cup milk; one level teaspoonful soda dissolved in a lit- 
tle milk; salt, nutmeg. Mix well one cup sugar (reserving one-half 
cup for sprinkling on top of cookies before baking) with shortening, 
egg, milk, soda, pinch of salt and a sprinkle of nutmeg and flour. Use 
enough flour to enable to roll and cut. 

Raisin Filling : One-half pound raisins ; one-half cup water ; one- 
half tablespoonful butter ; flour. Put raisins in a pan with water and 
butter and as they come to a boil, thicken with a tablespoonful of flour, 
mixed with a little water. Put one layer of cookies in baking pan, 
spread with the raisin mixture, then place another cookie on top of 
each ; sprinkle with sugar and bake. 

BUTTER COOKIES Mrs. J. R. Kline 

One pound butter ; one cup sugar ; two eggs ; rind one-half lemon ; 
juice of one-half lemon; six cups flour; one teaspoonful baking pow- 
der ; one cup almonds chopped fine. Cream the butter ; add the sugar, 
then the yolks of eggs, slightly beaten. Add rind of lemon, and the 
flour well mixed with the bakiner powder; then the lemon juice with 
only enough flour to handle. Chill the dough, and when thoroughly 
cold roll. Cut with the small biscuit cutter, brush with white of egg. 
Sprinkle a little sugar on each cookie, also some chopped almonds. 
Bake in moderate oven a delicate brown ten to fifteen minutes. Will 
keep for weeks. 

ROCKS Mrs. F. B. Woodland 

One cup butter; one and one-half cups sugar; three eggs; two 
and one-half cups flour; one pound dates, stoned and chopped fine; 
one pound of walnuts, chopped a little; a teaspoonful soda dissolved 
in two tablespoonfuls hot water; one teaspoonful cinnamon; one and 
one-half teaspoonfuls allspice. Drop on buttered tins and bake. The 
dates measure one full cup. The walnuts about two cups. These are 
stirred in the last with part of the flour. Don't roll, but dip with a 
teaspoon. 

133 



Cookies 

tiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiHiiiiNiiiiiiiiiiiiitiiritiiiiiMiiiiiiiniiiiiiiiiiiiiiiniiiiiiMiiiniiiiii iiii:iiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiitiiiiiiiiiituini] iiMiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiniiniiiiiiiiii 

OLD-FASHIONED SUGAR COOKIES Mrs. C. W. Woodman 

Two cups of sugar; one cup melted shortening; two eggs; one 
cup sour cream ; one teaspoonful soda ; one teaspoonful nutmeg ; a lit- 
tle lemon flavoring; one teaspoonful baking powder in flour; one tea- 
spoonful salt. Flour enough to roll. 

COOKIES Mrs. J. A. Osborne 

One and one-half cups sugar; scant cup sour cream; one-half cup 
butter; one level teaspoonful soda and nutmeg; two eggs, beaten 
whites added last; heaping teaspoonful baking powder in flour. Roll 
thick and sprinkle with sugar. 

FAVORITE COOKIES Mrs. Earl Combs 

One and one-half cupfuls of sugar ; one cupful of butter ; one-half 
cup of sour milk ; one level teaspoonful baking powder ; one teaspoon- 
ful grated nutmeg; flour enough to roll out, making it quite soft. 
Mix butter and sugar, then add milk and soda, nutmeg and flour lastly. 
Roll thin and put a little sugar on each cooky and bake in hot oven. 

OATMEAL AND COCOANUT COOKIES Mrs. T. C. Hollenberger 

One cup light brown sugar ; one-half cup shortening (scant) ; one 
egg; one cup flour and one teaspoonful baking powder; one cup oat- 
meal and shredded cocoanut mixed ; a little salt and vanilla. This will 
be quite stiff. Drop from spoon in small pats. 

CORN FLAKE COOKIES Mrs. S. Friedlander 

Three cups corn flakes ; one cupful flour ; three-fourths cup short- 
ening (butter and lard) ; one-half cup raisins, chopped; two teaspoon- 
fuls baking powder; one teaspoonful cinnamon; two eggs; one cup 
sugar. Drop with spoon on greased tins. 

CORNFLAKE KISSES Mary Roberts 

Two eggs, well beaten ; three-fourths cup sugar, beaten into eggs. 
Add cornflakes until substance will hold shape when dropped from 
teaspoon, on to buttered paper. Bake fifteen minutes in slow oven. 

NUT KISSES Mrs. C. A. Carscadin 

To the white of one egg y well beaten, add ten teaspoonfuls pulver- 
ized sugar, a little ground cinnamon and cloves and a cup of chopped 
nuts ; flavor with vanilla. Put teaspoonful of mixture on bottom side 
of pie pan and bake ten minutes in a moderate oven. 

MERINGUE SHELLS Mrs. C. A. Carscadin 

"Whites of four eggs beaten twenty minutes; one cup sugar; one 
teaspoonful vanilla; one-half teaspoonful vinegar. Bake forty-five 
minutes to one hour. Moderate oven. 

134 



Cookies 

•niiiiiiiiiiifuiiiiniiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiuiitiiiitiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiifitiiiiiuiiuiuiiiiiiiiiitiHiiiiuiiiiiuitiMiiiiiiuiiiiiiiiHiitiiuitiiiiiiiiiititiiiitiiiiiiiiiiiiiiuiiiiiinitiM 

CREAM PUFFS Mrs. Paul Klein-exel. 

One-half cup flour ; one-half cup of boiling water ; one-quarter cup 
butter ; two eggs ; one-quarter teaspoon of salt. Add salt and butter to 
water. When boiling add flour all at once, stirring constantly until 
mixture leaves the side of pan. Remove from fire, add unbeaten egg3, 
and beat constantly while adding one at a time. 

MACAROON COOKIES Mrs. W. D. ("Ma") Sunday 

Four cups cornflakes ; one cup shredded cocoanut ; one cup granu- 
lated sugar; one cup chopped almonds. Beat whites of four eggs 
very stiff, and mix all together. Bake in a slow oven about twenty 
minutes. 

HERMITS Mrs. J. H. Shanley 

Cream one and one-half cups of butter and two cups of brown 
sugar ; beat four eggs and add to butter and sugar ; one level teaspoon- 
ful soda in a tablespoonful of hot water; then add two and one-half 
cups flour; one pound of dates (cut small) and about one cup chopped 
walnuts; flavor with vanilla. Drop by spoonfuls on pan and cook 
for about 45 minutes. 

ROCKS Mrs. H. B. Rairden 

One pound brown sugar; one pound raisins; one pound currants; 
one pound walnuts ; one-half teaspoonf ul each cinnamon and nutmeg ; 
one-half cup sour milk; one-half teaspoonf ul soda; three eggs; flour 
enough to make stiff. Drop on well buttered tins and bake. 

MARGUERITES Mrs. W. L. Gregson 

Make frosting from two tablespoonfuls of thick sweet cream and 
powdered sugar; flavor; spread frosting over long salted wafers; 
sprinkle with chopped nuts and bake in moderate oven. Allow to 
stand in dripping pan until cool, to guard against breaking. Melted 
chocolate or pink fruit coloring added to frosting makes variety. 
Dainty for afternoon teas, etc. 

CHRISTMAS COOKIES Mrs. Adolph Holeman 

One-half pound of butter; one-half pound of sugar; two eggs, 
beaten separately ; one pound of flour ; one teaspoonf ul baking powder ; 
one teaspoonful vanilla. Roll out thin and cut spreading top of 
cookies with the white of egg and sprinkle sugar over the tops be- 
fore baking. These will keep for months in a dry place. 

OATMEAL COOKIES Mrs. A. J. Atwater 

One cup sugar; one cup lard; one cup raisins, ground fine; two 
eggs, beaten light; two cups oatmeal dry; one-half cup cold water; 
dash salt; one teaspoonful soda; sifted flour enough to make stiff 
dough. 

135 



Cookies 

■iiiiiltililliiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiliillillliiiiilltiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiitiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiii]iiiittiiiiiiiiiiiii]iiiiitiiiiiiiitiiiiiiiiiiiiitiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiint 

OATMEAL COOKIES Mrs. W. D. ("Ma") Sunday 

One cup sugar; one-fourth cup lard; one-half cup butter; three 
eggs beaten ; one and one-half cups sifted flour ; two cups dry oatmeal ; 
one teaspoonful cinnamon; one and one-half cups chopped, seeded rai- 
sins ; one and one-half teaspoonf uls soda, mixed with one tablespoonful 
vinegar. Drop on greased pans. Bake in quick oven. 

OATMEAL COOKIES Mrs. Minnie E. Bodwell 

Cookies: One-half cup of lard; one-half cup of butter; one cup 
of sugar; two-thirds cup of sour milk; one level teaspoonful of soda, 
dissolved in milk; two cups of oatmeal; two cups of flour. Filling: 
One-half pound of dates put through chopper; one-half cup of white 
sugar ; one-half cup of cold water. Boil all together until thick ; when 
cool and cookies are warm, spread filling between two cookies; it is 
then ready to serve, very nice. 

LACE OATMEAL WAFERS Mrs. F. T. Hoyt 

One cup of sugar; one tablespoonful of butter; two eggs beaten 
separately ; two and one-half cups of uncooked oatmeal ; two teaspoon- 
fuls of baking powder; 1 teaspoonful of vanilla; one pinch of salt. 
Mix well, adding the stiffly beaten whites of eggs last. Drop a small 
teaspoonful on greased pans, far apart, and bake in quick oven. 

DROP CLOVE COOKIES Mrs. C. E. Upham 

Two cups sugar ; one cup shortening ; two eggs ; one cup molasses ; 
two teaspoonfuls soda dissolved in little hot water; six scant cups 
flour; one cup cold water; three teaspoonfuls salt; one teaspoonful 
cloves; one teaspoonful cinnamon; raisins if wanted. Drop with a 
teaspoon. 

DROP COOKIES (LIGHT) 

Two cups of sugar ; one cup of shortening ; two eggs beaten light ; 
one cup of milk (sour) ; one teaspoonful each of soda, salt baking pow- 
der — the latter well mixed with the four cups of flour — and grated 
nutmeg or any desired flavoring. Mix well and drop in small tea- 
spoonfuls upon a greased pan. Allow room to spread. Bake in a 
quick oven. 

PEANUT COOKIES Mrs. L. Ficklen 

One cup sugar; two eggs; two teaspoonfuls butter; one cup pea- 
nuts rolled ; enough flour with baking powder to make stiff batter. 

CHOCOLATE COOKIES Mrs. H. S. Mount 

Cream one cup of shortening, one cup of brown cugar, one cup 
of white sugar. Then add four squares (one-half of one-half pound 
cake), melted chocolate, one-fourth cup milk, one-half teaspoonful of 
baking powder, flour enough to roll very thin. Bake in cookie pans. 

136 



Cookies 

ntiiiiitiiiiiiiiiiiitfiiiiitiiiiiiiiiitiitiftiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiitiitiiiiiiiiiiiiiiitiiiiiiiiiiitiiitiiiiiiiiiiiiitiiiiiiiiiiiitiiiiiitniiitiiiitiiHiiifiiniiiitiiiiiiiittiiiiiitiiiiiiiiiiiiititiiiiiiitiiiitiiiiii* 

CHOCOLATE NUT COOKIES Mrs. J. W. Moss 

One tablespoonful grated chocolate; one cup chopped nut meats; 
one cup seeded raisins; one cup sugar; one egg) two tablespoonfuls 
butter; one-half cup milk; one and three-fourths cups flour; one tea- 
spoonful powdered cinnamon; one teaspoonful vanilla extract. 

CHOCOLATE FINGERS 

Three eggs; one-half pound of powdered sugar; one-half pound 
of sifted pastry flour; two ounces of powdered chocolate. Method: 
Beat sugar and eggs for half an hour, sift chocolate and sugar to- 
gether, then stir into the flour. Beat well, then with a pastry squirt 
form oblong cakes, size of a finger on waxed tins. Set away over 
night, then bake as other cookies in moderate heat. They have 
the appearance of being frosted owing to the light components rising 
to the top during night. If you have no pastry tube or squirt, form 
little round mounds by dipping up portions with a small spoon dipped 
in cold water. When baking the above cakes be sure to use only mod- 
erate heat. Remove cakes from pan as soon as done and place in tin 
pails or cans as soon as cold. If kept in closed tin small cakes will keep 
a long time and remain palatable. 

DROP COOKIES (Dark) 

One cup of brown sugar; one-quarter cup shortening; one egg; 
one-half cup each of hot water and molasses ; one teaspoonful each of 
soda, baking powder, cinnamon, cloves and salt; one-half teaspoonful 
of ground nutmeg, all sifted thoroughly with two and one-half cups of 
flour. Mix well, drop in small spoonfuls upon a greased tin, and bake 
in a quick oven. This makes a small batch. 

GINGER SNAPS W. B. McKinley (his mother's recipe) 

Two cups brown sugar ; two cups molasses ; one cup lard or butter ; 
one-half cup sweet milk ; one teaspoonful salt ; two tablespoonfuls soda ; 
one teaspoonful cinnamon; one-half teaspoonful cloves; two table- 
spoonfuls ginger; add flour enough to roll. Put molasses, lard, sugar 
and spices on the stove, let get hot. "When cool dissolve the soda in 
the milk, add flour and milk alternately, roll very thin and bake. 

GINGER BREAD Mrs. A. P. Roberts 

One cupful molasses; two cupfuls sour milk; three cupfuls flour; 
one-half teaspoonful each nutmeg and cinnamon; scant half cupful 
sugar; two eggs; one heaping teaspoonful ginger and a teaspoonful 
soda dissolved in the sour milk. 

SOFT GINGERBREAD Mrs. T. C. Hollenberger 

Two-thirds cup molasses, fill cup with sugar; one-half cup butter, 
fill cup with hot water ; two cups flour ; two teaspoonfuls ginger ; one- 
half teaspoonful cinnamon ; one teaspoonful soda, dissolved in a little 
of the hot water; one egg. 

137 



Cookies 

■IIIIIIIIIIllll!lllltlI!(lllIIIIlllIllltllllI(lllllllllllllIllllllllllllltlllMllllIIIIIIIIIIIllIllIIIII1IIIIII1llltllllllllllIIIIIlIllllllltllltl!tltIflllI1III]IIIIIIlIllIIIIIIIlllMI1IIIIIlIMIllllI1IlllllIltIllltl 

GINGER BREAD Mrs. Eustace 

One cup molasses; one cup brown sugar; one-half cup butter and 
lard; two eggs; two scant teaspoonfuls of soda in one cup of sour 
milk; three cups of flour; one teaspoonful each of ginger and cinna- 
mon ; one-half teaspoonful each of cloves and allspice. Bake slowly. 

GINGER BREAD Mrs. W. F. Barnard 

Two-thirds cup molasses, fill up cup with granulated sugar; one- 
half cup butter, fill cup up with hot water; two scant cups flour; one 
egg, beaten light; one teaspoonful ginger; one teaspoonful cinnamon; 
one teaspoonful soda. Bake in moderate oven about one-half hour. 

COLONIAL GINGERBREAD Mrs. Floyd E. Jennison 

One cup molasses; one-half cup sugar; one-half cup shortening. 
Pour over the above, one cup warm water in which one level dessert- 
spoonful of soda has been dissolved. Let mixture cool ; then add two 
and one-half cupfuls flour (sifted) ; one teaspoonful each of ginger and 
cinnamon and lastly two well beaten eggs and one cup (or less) of 
English walnut meats. Raisins may be added, if desired. 

CHOCOLATE GINGERBREAD 

One-half cup molasses; one tablespoonful each of melted butter 
and lard; one-half cup brown sugar; one-fourth teaspoonful each of 
ginger and cinnamon ; one heaping tablespoonful grated sweet choco- 
late, mixed to a paste with a little hot water. Blend the ingredients 
thoroughly, then stir in one teaspoonful soda in one cupful of sour 
milk; flour to stiffen. Bake twenty minutes. 

CINNAMON STARS 

Two tablespoonfuls of butter ; one cupful of sugar ; two eggs ; one 
and one-half cupfuls of sifted pastry flour; one teaspoonful of cinna- 
mon ; one-fourth teaspoonful of baking powder. Method : Cream but- 
ter, sugar and eggs until light, sift all dry ingredients together, then 
stir into egg mixture. Take onto a floured board, using a very little 
more flour if needed. Roll quite thin, then cut with a star cutter. 
Bake on waxed tins in a very moderate oven. 

CALIFORNIA COOKIES Mrs. E. T. Clissold 

One cup molasses; one egg; one-half cup milk; one cup chopped 
raisins ; one-half cup butter ; one-half cup sugar ; one-half teaspoonful 
each of cloves, nutmeg and cinnamon ; one teaspoonful soda. Drop in 
spoonfuls in buttered tins. Bake quickly. 

DOUGHNUTS Mrs. H. P. Sieh 

Two cups sugar ; four eggs ; one cup buttermilk ; six tablespoonfuls 
hot lard ; one teaspoonful nutmeg, one of soda and one of salt. Flour 
to make a good rolling dough. Cut and cook in hot lard. 

138 



Cookies 

IIIIIIIlIIIllIIlIIIIIIlIIlllllIIIIilllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllltlllllllllllllllllllllillllllllllllllllllllilllllllltllllllllllllllllilllllllllltMlllIlliilllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllB 

MOLASSES SQUARES Mrs. E. Oliver 

One cup sugar; one egg; two tablespoonfuls shortening; three- 
fourths cup molasses; one teaspoonful soda dissolved in molasses; 
one cup milk; two and one-half cups flour (after sifting); one cup 
raisins; one teaspoonful each cinnamon, cloves and one-half teaspoon- 
ful nutmeg. Beat egg, add shortening, molasses, milk, spices and last 
the raisins (floured). Bake in two shallow pans. Any desired frosting. 

GINGER BLOCKS 

Four tablespoonfuls of butter or butterine ; one-third cupful sugar ; 
one egg; one-half cupful of golden drip syrup; one-half cupful of 
milk; one and three-quarters cupfuls of sifted pastry flour; one tea- 
spoonful of baking powder; two teaspoonfuls of ginger. Method: 
Cream butter, sugar and yolk; then add the sirup and beat hard. 
Sift dry ingredients together, and then add, alternating with the milk. 
Whip white of egg and fold in. Bake in square tins. When done cut 
into blocks and sift confectioners' sugar over. To make the blocks 
of uniform size trim the very outer edge of cake before cutting. ^These 
rims can be used for a pudding some other day. 

PUFF BALLS Mrs. J. Dana Brown 

One egg; three-fourths cupful sugar; one scant cupful milk; one 
and one-half cupfuls flour; and one-half teaspoonful baking powder; 
pinch of salt. Mix and roll out and cut with the smallest biscuit cutter 
and dropped in hot fat. 

DOUGHNUTS Mrs. J. H. Shanley 

Three eggs ; one cup sugar ; one cup sweet milk ; three teaspoonfuls 
baking powder sifted with three cups flour ; spice and flavoring to suit 
your taste. When these are put into the boiling lard they sink, but 
rise almost at once and turn themselves. They never break apart when 
frying, as they contain no shortening, yet they are sufficiently rich to 
satisfy anyone. 

# 

DOUGHNUTS Mrs. T. C. Hollenberger 

Three eggs beaten very light ; one cup sugar ; four tablespoonfuls 
melted lard, add to the eggs and beat all together. One teaspoonful 
salt and a little nutmeg or lemon rind grated; one cup thick sour 
milk with one-half teaspoonful soda dissolved in it ; add flour with one 
heaping teaspoonful baking powder sifted with flour — three cups, with 
enough more to make a very soft dough. 

DOUGHNUTS Miss Shay 

Two eggs, well beaten; add one and one-half cupfuls sugar; one- 
half grated nutmeg ; one cup milk ; two heaping tablespoonfuls butter, 
melted; two heaping teaspoonfuls baking powder sifted in the flour 
and flour enough to make the dough roll easily, about three pints of 
flour. 

139 



Cookies 

■Illlllllllllllllllllllllllllllltlllilllllilllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllltllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllilllllllltllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllilllltlb 



140 



PICKLES 



"How Cam'st in Such a Pickle f" 

— Shakespeare. 



SLICED PICKLE Mrs. William H. Fahrney 

One peck cucumbers; thirty small onions; four green peppers; 
two red peppers; slice and soak over night in salt water. Soak cu- 
cumbers separately, rinse in cold water. One-half gallon vinegar ; two 
tablespoonfuls mustard seed; one tablespoonful celery seed; six cups 
brown sugar; one-fourth teaspoonful tumeric; one teaspoonful pow- 
dered alum. Let the vinegar and seasoning come to a boil, add the 
onions and peppers, cook five minutes; then add the cucumbers and 
cook five minutes. Can hot. 

MUSTARD PICKLE Mrs. William Molt 

One quart tiny cucumbers; one quart large cucumbers, cut or 
sliced; one quart green tomatoes, cut in pieces; one large cauliflower, 
divided ; five green peppers, chopped fine ; one quart button onions, cut 
up. To four quarts of water add one pint salt and pour over the vege- 
tables and let stand twenty-four hours; then heat in same brine just 
enough to scald; turn into colander and drain. Mix one-half cup 
flour; six tablespoonfuls mustard; two tablespoonfuls tumeric, with 
enough cold vinegar to make a smooth paste; add one cup sugar and 
enough vinegar to make two quarts in all; boil this until it thickens 
and is smooth. Add this to the pickles and cook until they are heated 
through, about fifteen minutes ; pack in Mason jars and seal. 

MUSTARD PICKLES 

FOR TWO QUART JAR Mrs. Wm. J. Maiden 

Three tablespoonfuls Coleman's mustard; one-fourth cupful salt; 
piece of horseradish root; fill jar with vinegar. Wash and wipe 
pickles and pack in jar, then pour over the above mixture. 

PICKLES Alice H. Tolmie 

Slice 25 small cucumbers with a large onion, put in salt brine and 
let stand for three hours, then drain and boil in following syrup : One 
quart vinegar, one pound sugar, one-half cup mustard seed, one table- 
spoonful ginger, one teaspoonful each of celery seed and tumeric pow- 
der. Boil five minutes and can. 

141 



Pickles 

lllllIllllMIIIIIItlllllllllllllllllllllllillllllMllilllllflllllllllllllllll MllIllllllllllllllltllltltlllllllMMIIIIIllllIIIIlllMIIIIIIIIlllIJIIIIMII llitlMIIMIlltilllllllllllltllllltllllUIIIIlMllf 

MIXED PICKLES Mrs. H. D. Sheldon 

One quart of small cucumbers; one quart of white onions; one 
quart green tomatoes; two large cauliflower; soak in weak salt water 
over night ; scald in same brine and drain. Paste : Six tablespoonfuls 
dry mustard ; one tablespoonful tumeric powder ; one and one-half cups 
flour; two cups brown sugar; five pints vinegar. Add vegetables to 
paste ; heat through and seal in cans. 

CUCUMBER PICKLES Mrs. Samuel Friedlander 

Twelve long cucumbers; five large onions, sliced and salted. Let 
stand over night. In morning drain well. Boil three pints vinegar; 
one and one-half pounds sugar; one red pepper, cut in strips; two 
tablespoonfuls dry mustard ; a tablespoonful whole white peppers ; one 
tablespoonful whole black pepper; two tablespoonfuls mustard seed. 
Boil until tender and can hot. 

CUCUMBER PICKLE Florence Trainer 

Two dozen large cucumbers, chopped fine and salted over night; 
one cup salt; four large onions; two stalks celery; one red pepper; 
chop all fine. Heat three cups cider vinegar; one cup water; two 
cups brown sugar; three tablespoonfuls mustard seed; three table- 
spoonfuls ground mustard; one tablespoonful celery seed; one-fourth 
teaspoonful cayenne pepper. When hot, pour over chopped mixture 
and cook ten minutes. Then bottle. 

PICKLED ONIONS Mrs. W. L. Gregson 

Peel and drop in hot brine. The third day heat the brine again 
and pour over them ; the sixth day make a new strong brine ; the tenth 
day drain and pour scalding vinegar containing a very little ginger 
root over them. Let stand on the stove until thoroughly heated 
through, but do not cook; pour into jars and seal hot. A little alum 
in the brine makes them firmer, and white wine vinegar aids in keep- 
ing them white, but malt vinegar adds to the flavor. 

TOMATO RELISH • Mrs. A. Donald Campbell 

One peck ripe tomatoes, peeled, chopped fine and drained in jelly 
bag over night ; in the morning add two cups chopped celery, six large 
onions chopped fine; two large green peppers (without seeds), chopped 
fine; two cups sugar; half cup salt; two ounces white mustard seed; 
one quart cider vinegar. Mix well and bottle; it does not require 
heating and will keep for years. 

OIL PICKLES Mrs. A. C. Allen 

One-half peek small cucumbers; one pint silver skin onions, slice 
thin and place in stone jar alternately, sprinkling salt between. Let 
stand over night; pour off brine and wash thoroughly; add the fol- 
lowing: one teacup olive oil, two tablespoonfuls white mustard seed, 
two tablespoonfuls celery seed, four pepper corns and vinegar to cover. 

142 



Pickles 

■liiiiiiitiiiiiiiiiiniiitiiitHiiiiiiiiiiiiiffifiiittiiniiiiinitiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiitiiiuitiiiiitiitiiiiiiiiiiiiiiitiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiitiiiiittiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiia 

OIL CUCUMBER PICKLES Mrs. E. D. Gotchy 

Cut one hundred small cucumbers into thin slices ; put in earthen 
crock in layers with salt for four hours ; drain off liquor and mix with 
three pints of sliced onions, three ounces white mustard seed, three 
ounces celery seed, three ounces of ground white pepper. Dissolve 
small lump alum in vinegar; add to it two cups olive oil; add white 
vinegar enough to cover. 

PICKLES FOR IMMEDIATE USE Mrs. S. A. Power 

Mix together one cupful each of salt and dry mustard; add it to 
one gallon of good vinegar, spices of various kinds and a little sugar, 
if liked, may be added. Drop the well washed cucumbers into this 
pickle each day as they grow. These pickles will keep indefinitely. 

DILL PICKLES Mrs. W. T. Klenze 

One hundred medium sized cucumbers; one small red pepper; 
one big bunch of dill; some cherry leaves; ten quarts of water; one 
quart of vinegar; two cups salt. Mason jars, two quart size. Lay 
cucumbers in salt water over night (one-half cup salt to four quarts 
water). Boil water, vinegar and salt; let cool over night. Drain cu- 
cumbers and place in jars in layers between cherry leaves and dill. 
Pack cucumbers tight ; add a small piece of red pepper, cover with 
brine and screw down cover. "Will keep. One cup of mustard seeds 
and one cup of horseradish root, shaved fine, may be added. 

PICCALILI Mrs. H. B. Rairden 

One peck of green tomatoes; eight large onions; one cup salt; 
slice and let stand over night. In the morning drain and add three 
quarts of water and let come to a good boil, then drain well through a 
colander. Put back in kettle and add two quarts vinegar; one pound 
of sugar; half pound of white mustard; two tablespoonfuls ground 
pepper ; two of cinnamon ; one of cloves ; two of ginger ; one of allspice 
and half a teaspoonful of cayenne pepper. Boil all together until 
tender; it will take from thirty minutes to an hour to cook. Stir it 
often to prevent scorching. Seal in glass jars; add more sugar if 
liked sweeter. 

BEET RELISH Mrs. R. McNeil 

One quart cooked beets, chopped fine ; one quart cabbage, chopped 
fine; one cup each of grated horseradish, chopped onion and sugar; 
one teaspoonful salt; one pint vinegar. Heat vinegar, pour over all 
and seal. 

PEPPER RELISH Sue C. Woodman 

Twelve green peppers; twelve red peppers; ten medium onions; 
chop together. Pour boiling water over and let stand five minutes ; $~ 
strain and repeat. Three cups of vinegar ; one cup sugar ; two table- 
spoonfuls salt ; one-half cup mustard seed ; cook thirty minutes. Bottle. 

&)JC yJtkZ^- )$~r*X*s-* ^kM^X^ *+^<**f*> 



Pickles 

■]ltlllltIlftllllIllllllllllt»lfIllllUlllilllllMIIIIIllIIIltllIlllllllUlltl(llUlllllIUlltlMIUllllltll*lltllllllflllllll(Hlllll1llHtltlitllllIIUlfltIlllllttllllltllltlllIlt(IIItllliniltItllIIItllIllll«Iltl 

PEPPER HASH Mrs. John T. Gilchrist 

Nine sweet peppers; one large head cabbage; six large onions; 
chop fine and add one-half cup salt. Stand over night and drain in 
morning. Add two cups sugar; cup white mustard seed; one table- 
spoonful celery seed; vinegar to cover. Do not remove pepper seeds 
and do not cook. Put in earthen jar, covered with a plate. 

OLIVE OIL PICKLES Mrs. A. J. Atwater 

Forty cucumbers, dill size, scrub and slice with rind; one-half 
cup salt; a layer of cucumbers and a layer of salt in a crock; put 
weight on top and let stand for two hours ; pour off water and add ten 
onions, four green peppers, sliced fine; two ounces mustard seed; one 
pint olive oil; one ounce celery seed. Pack in jars and cover with 
vinegar. 

UNCOOKED CHILI SAUCE Mrs. Herman Vander Ploeg 

One peck ripe tomatoes; two cups chopped onions; two cups 
chopped celery; two cups sugar; one-half cup salt; four ounces white 
mustard seed ; one teaspoonful powdered mace ; one teaspoonful black 
pepper; one teaspoonful powdered cinnamon; four chopped green 
peppers; three pints vinegar. Chop the onions and peppers, add to- 
matoes peeled and chopped; sugar, salt, mustard seed, mace, pepper, 
cinnamon and vinegar. Seal and if screw top jars are used, turn upside 
down overnight. 

CANNED TOMATO SOUP Mrs. Edwin Oliver 

Fourteen quarts of sliced ripe tomatoes; fourteen stalks celery; 
fourteen sprigs parsley; two bay leaves; twenty-oue cloves; seven 
medium sized onions. Boil until tender and strain. Then blend four- 
teen tablespoonfuls each of butter and flour ; eight tablespoonfuls salt ; 
sixteen tablespoonfuls sugar; one-fourth tablespoonful paprika. Cook 
until the desired thickness; makes about eight quarts. If milk is 
used, add soda. 

CORN RELISH Mrs. A. J. Langan 

One dozen ears of corn, boil ten miutes, cut from cob ; one head 
of cabbage; four green peppers; four red peppers; one cup sugar; 
three pints vinegar; one small box Coleman's mustard; one tablespoon- 
ful celery seed ; salt to taste ; one teaspoonful tumeric. Mix well ; boil 
twenty minutes and seal. 

CORN RELISH Mrs. Samuel Friedlander 

Twelve ears of corn, cut from cob; twelve green peppers; two 
red peppers; two auarts ripe tomatoes; a head cabbage; one quart 
onions, chopped all together: add one quart sugar; one-half cup 
salt; two quarts vinegar: one ounce celery seed: one ounce mustard 
seed: one ounce dry mustard: one tablespoonful tumeric. Mix and 
boil forty minutes. Seal hot in air tight cans. 

144 



Pickles 

■III.illlltllllllltltlllllltlllflllllllllllllllllllllllllltllltllllltlllllltllllllllllllltlltlltllllllllllllMIIIIIIIIItllllllllllllltlllllllllllllllltllllllMIIIIIIIItlltltlllllllllllltllflllllMIIIIIlllIIllIllllllC 

CORN RELISH Mrs. R. Heidorn 

Twelve ears corn; six cucumbers; six large onions; two stalks 
celery; six green peppers; three red peppers; three tablespoonfuls 
salt; two cups sugar; three tablespoonfuls dry mustard; three table- 
spoonfuls flour; one-half ounce tumeric; two quarts vinegar; boil one 
hour and seal hot. 

CORN RELISH Mrs. E. L. Phelps 

Two dozen ears of corn, cut from the cob; six red peppers; six 
green peppers; large head of cabbage; two tablespoonfuls salt; three 
cups sugar; two quarts vinegar (diluted) ; one-half pound dry mus- 
tard; add celery and onions as much as you like. Cook the salt, 
mustard, sugar and vinegar together ; add cabbage, celery and onions. 
Cook a little, then add corn ; let boil up and can air tight. 

CORN SALAD Sue. C. Woodman 

Four large onions; one cabbage; four green peppers; one red 
pepper; twenty ears of corn; one and one-half cups sugar; one-half 
cup salt. Make paste of and pour on above ; one-half cup flour ; one- 
half teaspoonful tumeric; three tablespoonfuls mustard; one quart 
vinegar. Boil twenty minutes. 

CHILI SAUCE Mrs. R. Heidora 

Twenty-four ripe tomatoes; four white onions; three green pep- 
pers; four tablespoonfuls salt; one of cinnamon; one-half of ground 
cloves and allspice mixed; one teacup sugar; one pint vinegar; boil 
three hours, seal hot. 

CHILI SAUCE Belle Shaw 

One peck tomatoes ; six large onions ; four green peppers ; two red 
peppers; six tablespoonfuls white sugar; three tablespoonfuls salt; 
three cups vinegar; two tablespoonfuls whole cloves; two tablespoon- 
fuls whole allspice; two stalks whole cinnamon; chop tomatoes, pep- 
per and onions, very fine; tie spices in two bags, loosely. Boil three 
hours, slowly. 

CHILI SAUCE Mrs. H. D. Sheldon 

Thirty large tomatoes ; eight onions (medium), three green peppers 
chopped fine ; two red peppers chopped fine ; ten tablespoonfuls brown 
sugar; three tablespoonfuls salt; two tablespoonfuls cinnamon; one- 
half tablespoonful cloves ; one quart vinegar. Peel and slice tomatoes, 
put in kettle with remaining ingredients, cook slowly until thick, add 
vinegar when nearly done. 

SPICED CURRANTS Mrs. C. A. Robinson 

Four pounds of currants ; one and one-half pints of vinegar ; one- 
half pint of water; pound of brown sugar; one tablespoonful cinna- 
mon ; one teaspoonful cloves ; one nutmeg. Boil slowly three hours. 

145 



Pickles 

■IlIIIIIlllIllltllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllflllllllllllllllltllttlllllllllllllltllllllllllllllllllttllllllllllllllllllllllllllllltlllllllllllllllltUtllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllE 

NEVER FAIL CATSUP Mrs. Minnie E. Bodwell 

One gallon of ripe tomatoes, after having been boiled and strained ; 
one pint of vinegar; five tablespoonfuls of salt; two tablespoonfuls of 
black pepper; three ounces of white mustard seed ground finely; one 
teaspoonful of cayenne pepper; one teaspoonful of cinnamon; one-half 
teaspoonful of allspice. Cook all together for four hours. 

TOMATO CATSUP Sue C. Woodman 

Cut up one peck of tomatoes over night with one cup salt. Boil 
well and strain. Add: One tablespoonful ground cloves; one table- 
spoonful allspice; one tablespoonful mace; one tablespoonful white 
mustard seed; one tablespoonful black pepper; one teaspoonful red 
pepper; one-half cup sugar; one pine white wine vinegar. Boil down 
one-half. Bottle. 

CURRANT CATSUP Mrs. J. H. Ostrander 

Clean and stew four pounds of ripe currants; add two pounds 
of brown sugar and one pint of vinegar; boil steadily and slowly until 
thick; add one teaspoonful each of ground pepper, cloves and cinna- 
mon; boil for five minutes longer. Bottle and seal. 

VEGETABLES FOR WINTER SOUP Mrs. C. E. Seaton 

One peck ripe tomatoes; one head of cabbage; one bunch car- 
rots ; six large onions ; nine ears of corn ; six stalks celery ; two green 
peppers; one large bunch parsley. Scald the skins off the tomatoes 
and cut in rather large pieces ; shred cabbage ; peel and slice carrots ; 
peel and chop onions; cut corn from cob; cut celery as for salad; 
remove the seeds from peppers, chop them and the parsley quite fine. 
Mix all together and boil for one hour in a porcelain or agate kettle, 
stirring often to prevent scorching; about ten minutes before it is done, 
add salt to taste. Seal hot in glass jars. Potatoes may be added 
to the soup in the winter. 

SWEET WATERMELON PICKLE Mrs. N. F. Swartwout 

Remove the thin rind (green), also all of the ripe melon, using 
only the white portion of the rind. Nine pounds fruit, three pounds 
sugar, one quart vinegar. After soaking the rinds over night in strong 
salt water and then rinsing in hot water ; put the fruit, sugar and vine- 
gar together in preserving kettle and boil until tender. Skim out 
fruit and put into the liquid a bag of spices and boil until a little 
thick; then pour over the fruit. If there is not enough syrup to 
cover it add a little more vinegar. 



146 



Pickles 

•llltlltllllllllllllllllllllllllltllllllllllllllllUIIIIIIIIIIIIIItlllllllltlllllllllllllllllllllltllllMIMItltlllllllllllUIIIIIlHIlinilMIIIIIIUIIIIIIIIlIllflllllllllllllHIIIIlIltlllllllllllllllllllltllllllllB 

^ y\X^vA <**~*JL %$Xr* /2**^0a~*~' } (Z+**A u^y^L4^^ 






147 



Pickles 

«iriiiiiiiiiiiii>*iiiiiiiiiiiitiitii*iiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiitiiiiiiiitiiiiiitiiaiiiiiiiiiiiiitiiiiiitiiiiiiiiaiiitiiiiiitiiiiiiiiiia(tiaittitaiiaiiiiiiaitti«aiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiitiiiiiiitiitiiiiiiiinii» 



148 



PRESERVES 



"The "best of families "have fheir family ' jars/ " 



FOUR FRUIT JAM Mrs. W. C. Thorbus 

One quart cranberries cut coarsely; one cup sultana raisins; six 
ries ; one quart gooseberries ; two quarts granulated sugar. Boil forty- 
minutes and put in jelly glasses. 

CRANBERRY CONSERVE Sue C. Woodman 

One quart cranberries cut coarsely; one cup sultana raisins; six 
oranges; soak raisins; cut up oranges; mix. Equal measure of sugar; 
cook. Stir constantly. 

RHUBARB CONSERVE Mrs. John Ingram 

Six pounds rhubarb ; six pounds granulated sugar ; one-half pound 
English walnuts; six oranges, pulp and juice. Boil until proper con- 
sistency. 

PLUM CONSERVE Mrs. A. C. Allen 

One box of blue plums; one pound of raisins, chopped; three 
pounds sugar; juice of four oranges; rind of two oranges chopped. 
Boil the rind in water until bitterness is gone. Cook for one-half 
hour. 

HEAVENLY HASH Mrs. W. D. Hurlbut 

A five-pound basket of big blue plums ; wash and seed them, put in 
preserving kettle with one pint water; add (everything but the seeds 
of) five oranges and five lemons, putting the skins through a meat 
chopper ; four pounds of seedless raisins, also put through the chopper ; 
one pound of walnut meats broken and lastly five pounds of sugar. 
Let boil until quite thick, then put in glasses and when cold cover 
with paraffine. 

PEAR CHIPS Mrs. M. Evans 

Seven pounds pear chips; seven pounds sugar; one-fourth pound 
candied ginger; three lemons sliced; two oranges. Cook oranges and 
lemons slowly before adding to pears ; then cook slowly for two hours. 

149 



Preserves 

i iiiiiiiiiiiiiiifiiiiiniiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiininiiiiiiiiiiniiiiiiiiiiiiniiiiiiiiiiiiniiiiiii iiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiin 

SUN COOKED STRAWBERRIES Mrs. H. D. Sheldon 

Use cup for cup sugar and fruit. Let sugar stand on fruit over 
night. Drain juice and cook slowly until sugar is thoroughly dis- 
solved. Add fruit and heat through. Turn out on platters and stand 
in sun until thick as desired. Pieces of glass over each platter helps 
cook more rapidly. Seal as you would jelly in glasses. 

HARLEQUIN JAM Good Housekeeping 

One orange ; twenty-five peaches ; twelve pears ; twelve plums ; one 
pound white grapes; one-fourth pound almonds, blanched; three- 
fourths cup of sugar to one cup of fruit. Cook two hours. 

BLACKBERRY JAM 

Two quarts blackberries; one and one-half quarts sugar; one cup 
water. Cook well for half an hour. 

APRICOT JAM Mrs. Herman Vander Ploeg 

One pound dried apricots; three pounds granulated sugar; one- 
half ounce bitter almonds; three pints cold water. Soak the apricots 
in the water over night (wash first), and in the morning boil until 
tender. Add sugar and almonds blanched and boil another half hour, 
or until mixture sets. 

YELLOW TOMATO PRESERVES Mrs. T. B. Orr 

Two quarts tomatoes ; two lemons ground, use juice and all ; four 
chopped large sour apples; two and one-half cups brown sugar; two 
teaspoonfuls cinnamon; one teaspoonful ground ginger; one-half tea- 
spoonful cloves. Cook slowly until thick. Put in jars. 

TOMATO BUTTER Mrs. A. Donald Campbell 

Seven pounds large ripe tomatoes ; four pounds brown sugar ; one- 
half cup vinegar; one teaspoonful each of ginger and cloves; one 
tablespoonful cinnamon. Cover tomatoes with boiling water and let 
stand five minutes; rub off skins and cut off stem ends. Slice into a 
porcelain kettle and cook until soft; add sugar and stew until very 
thick; add spices and vinegar and cook short time longer. Pour in 
quart Mason jars and seal while hot. This is particularly good with 
meat or game. 

EAST INDIAN PRESERVE Mrs. George D. Milligan 

Six pounds yellow tomatoes — small ones; six pounds sugar; one 
pound raisins, large ones with seeds; put them in water until they 
plump up; two ounces green ginger root (obtainable at a Chinese 
store) ; six lemons sliced ; put tomatoes in kettle and put on enough 
water to cover them; then add the other ingredients and boil until 
thick. 

150 



Preserves 

rillllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllltlllllllllltllllllliltlllMMIIIllllltllllllMllllllIIIIIIIIIlIIIIIIIIIlIIIIlllllIIIIIIIIIIlIllIIIIIllllIMIIIIlllItilllllllllllllllllMIIillllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllt} 

QUINCE HONEY Aunt Margaret 

Peel and grate three large quinces and one tart apple. Make a 
syrup of three pints of granulated sugar and one pint of water ; have 
the syrup boiling briskly ; stir in the grated fruit and boil twenty min- 
utes. 

APRICOT MARMALADE Mrs. J. G. Sherer 

One basket of apricots ; one pineapple ; three oranges ; five pounds 
cane sugar. Peel oranges, scald peeling and scrape off white and then 
put all through grinder. Boil all slowly one hour, stirring constantly 
or it will stick. 

APRICOT AND PINEAPPLE 

MARMALADE Mrs. A. Donald Campbell 

One large, or two small, pineapples, put through meat chopper 
with large knife ; one and one-half pounds apricots ; weighed after they 
are peeled and pitted; two pounds sugar; one-half pint water. Boil 
slowly for an hour. 

PIG MARMALADE Mrs. John T. Gilchrist 

Cut 1iye pounds rhubarb into inch pieces. Add one quart of water 
and cook as for sauce. Put one pound figs through a food chopper. 
Heat five pounds sugar and add to hot sauce, then figs. Add juice 
of two lemons. Cook slowly for about one hour, stirring often. 

PEACH MARMALADE Mrs. F. J. Macnish 

Equal parts of peaches (run through a fine collander) and sugar, 
cooked two hours. 

PEACH MARMALADE Mrs. J. H. Shanley 

Nine medium sized peaches, cut small; one orange, chopped fine 
(with skin) ; one cup sugar. Cook until it thickens, put in jelly glasses 
end seal. 

PIE PLANT MARMALADE Mrs. T. B. Orr 

Two quarts pie plant pared and cut in inch length pieces; four 
large oranges, chopped (use juice) ; one-half pound almonds, blanched 
and chopped; four pounds sugar; mix all together and let stand in 
bowl all night. Cook slowly in enamel kettle until thick. Seal with 
parafline in glasses. 

ORANGE MARMALADE Mrs. T. M. Flournoy 

Six oranges; three lemons, parboiled, and save the water; either 
put the skins through the chopper or slice them very thin; add eight 
cupfuls water, using that in which the fruit was boiled, and sixteen 
cupfuls of sugar; let stand over night. Next day let it boil gently 
until it jellies. 

151 



Preserves 

viiitttiiiiiititiiiiiiiiiiiiiuiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiitiiiiiiiiiiiMiiuiiiiiifiiitiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiitiiiiiiiiiitiiiiiiiifiiiiiiiiiiiiiiitiiiiiiiiiiiiuiuiiiiiitiiiiiitiiiiittittfiiiiiiiiiiiitiiiiiiiiiiiiiin 

ORANGE MARMALADE Mrs. C. B. Martin 

One grapefruit ; six oranges ; two lemons (sliced like wafers) ; two 
quarts of cold water ; let stand over night. In the morning, boil slowly 
until fruit can be pierced with a straw ; add seven and one-half pounds 
granulated sugar and boil until thick enough. 

ORANGE MARMALADE Miss Julia Hunt 

Six pounds of pumpkin (after cut), cut one inch long, three- 
fourths inch wide and one-half inch thick; cover with five pounds 
sugar; let stand over night. Six lemons, juice and rind; two oranges 
sliced and the rinds cut in small pieces; three-fourths ounce ginger, 
the preserved is best. Simmer until the rind softens, then add to the 
pumpkin and boil until the right consistency. 

QUICK ORANGE MARMALADE Mrs. A. Donald Campbell 

Take one-third lemons and two-thirds oranges (eight oranges and 
four lemons makes large enough quantity to cook up at one time and 
makes twelve glasses). Take off the yellow part of the peel from one- 
half of each ; cut into small pieces and drop into the preserving kettle ; 
take off the white part of the peel, between the yellow part and the 
pulp ; be sure none of the white goes into the marmalade, as it makes 
it bitter. Slice the fruit across in thin slices, and add it to the cut 
up peel; put teacup of water to each whole fruit (oranges and lemons) 
and cook until the fruit is soft. "When cooked, add three-fourths cup 
of sugar for each whole fruit and boil hard until it jells. The quicker 
it is cooked the better, as long cooking, especially after the sugar 
is added, tends to destroy the flavor and makes the mixture taste 
strong. 

RHUBARB MARMALADE Mrs. J. L. Putman 

Boil for twenty minutes, four pounds of rhubarb cut into small 
pieces, leaving the skin on. Add the juice of five lemons, the rind of 
which has been sliced off thinly, boiled in a little water for about 
twenty minutes or until soft; and chopped fine. To this add six 
pounds of granulated sugar, one pound of blanched almonds, chopped 
or cut, and one wine-glass of Jamaica ginger. Boil all together until 
thick. 

RHUBARB MARMALADE Mrs. John T. Gilchrist 

Cut rhubarb very fine and to each cupful add the juice and pulp 
of one orange, one tablespoonful lemon juice and one teaspoonful 
grated orange peel and one and one-half cups sugar. Let stand until 
sugar is dissolved. Boil rapidly until transparent. 

SPICED RHUBARB Mrs. John In err am 

Two and onp-half pounds rhubarb : skin and cut in one inch 
pieces; two pounds erranulated susrar, mixed with one teaspoonful cin- 
namon; one-half teaspoonful ground cloves: seven-eighths cup vinegar. 
Bring to boiling point and simmer till thick. 

152 



Preserves 

JllllllllltlltUllllillUllllIIIIIlllllllllIlllIllllllIlllllllllllIlllllltlllllllllllllllllllltlllllUllllllllllIllllltllllllllllllltllllllllllllllllllllllUllIllIllllIlllllllllllllIIIIIIllllllllllllllllllllJIIllllllI 

SPICED RHUBARB Mrs. John T. Gilchrist 

Sprinkle two and one-half pounds sliced rhubarb with one pound 
of sugar and let stand over night. Drain in the morning and add to 
the juice one cup water and one-half cup vinegar. Put on, boil with 
a spice bag containing one-half teaspoonful each of ground cloves, 
mace, allspice, ginger and cinnamon. Boil until it makes a good 
syrup, then add rhubarb and cook until thick. 

SPICED CHERRIES Mrs. C. A. Bowman 

Take eight quarts of large red cherries (stoned), cover with cold 
vinegar, let stand over night. Next day turn oif all the juice in 
the jar, measure the cherries and take equal parts of sugar and cher- 
ries. Take one tablespoonful cloves, six sticks of cinnamon, pounded 
a little, put in cheesecloth bag, put in jar with sugar and cherries. 
Stir every few hours for several days until sugar is thoroughly dis- 
solved. Put in fruit jars. 

SPICED GRAPES Mrs. J. G. S. 

Remove the skins from seven pounds of grapes, boil until soft 
and pass through sieve. Boil four pounds of sugar and one quart of 
vinegar together, add skins, boiled grapes, one tablespoonful powdered 
cloves; two tablespoonfuls powdered cinnamon and boil all together 
for two and one-half or three hours. 

SPICED GRAPE JELLY Mrs. W. D. Hurlbut 

One peck of grapes; one quart vinegar; six pounds sugar; one 
ounce whole cloves; one-fourth ounce stick cinnamon. Boil grapes, 
spices and vinegar together until the grapes are tender. Press through 
sieve and boil the juice thirty minutes. Add heated sugar, boil five 
minutes,. testing to see whether it has jellied. Cook longer if neces- 
sary. Pour into hot sterilized jelly glasses and cover with wax. 

CRABAPPLE AND DAMSON 

PLUM JELLY Mrs. C. A. Carscadin 

Four quarts of crabapples; one quart of damson plums. Wash 
fruit and put on with cold water enough to cover. Let cook until soft, 
drain through a jelly bag and return to kettle with an equal quantity 
of sugar. Boil until it jells. This makes a tart jelly which tastes 
like currants. 

QUINCE AND CRANBERRY JELLY Mrs. C. A. Carscadin 

Three large quinces ; one quart of cranberries. Wash and quarter 
the quinces, removing the seeds; pick over and wash the cranberries 
and put them in the preserving kettle with the quinces; add cold 
water to nearly cover fruit; cook slowly until soft. Allow juice to 
drip through a jelly bag. Boil twenty-five minutes and add an equal 
quantity of heated sugar. Boil five minutes, skim and put in heated 
glasses. Seal. 

153 



Preserves 

iifiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiinitiiiiiiMiniiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiitiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiinitiii iiiiMiiiiiiiiMiiiitiiJiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiniiiiiiiiiiiiiiiuiiiiiiiiiiiiitiiiiiiiiiiiiiitiiriiiuiin 

MINT JELLY Mrs. W. C. Thorbus 

Two bunches of fresh mint; one pint boiling water; one-half box 
gelatin, soaked in one-half cupful cold water; one-half cupful lemon 
juice ; one cupful sugar. Crush mint and steep in water one-half hour ; 
soak gelatin in cold water and add to mint ; add sugar and lemon juice. 
Strain and color with Burnette 's leaf green paste. 

AMBER JELLY Mrs. M. Evans 

One grape fruit ; one orange ; one lemon ; after washing fruit, slice 
very thin, rejecting only seeds and tough inner pulps of grape fruit. 
Cut slices in halves and quarters, measure and add two and one-half 
times the quantity of water and set aside for twenty-four hours. Then 
boil gently for fifteen minutes, and set aside another twenty-four hours. 
Add sugar, measure for measure, to fruit and juice and boil until it 
jellies, which will be for one hour and a half or two hours. Before 
cooking dissolve the sugar through the fruit and juice. Then do not 
stir at all while the process of cooking is going on. The rinds should 
be transparent and the jelly a clear amber hue when done. 

QUINCE AND CRANBERRY JELLY Mrs. George K. Spoor 

Four pounds quince; two quarts cranberries; cook until mushy; 
then strain for juice and add one cup sugar to every cup of juice. 
Boil fifteen minutes. This makes a beautifully colored jelly. 

PICKLED PEACHES OR PEARS Mrs. J. A. Kaerwer 

One quart vinegar; two quarts water (eight cups) ; four pounds 
sugar (nine cups) ; put stick cinnamon and five cents worth of cloves 
in bag and boil fifteen minutes. Peal fruit and pour hot syrup over 
fruit and let stand over night. Drain syrup off fruit and reboil syrup. 
Pour hot on fruit a second time. The third morning boil syrup again 
twenty minutes, and then boil fruit in syrup. Can and seal. 

PICKLED PEACHES Mrs. N. L. Hilliard 

For ten pounds of peaches take five pounds of light brown sugar, 
one ounce whole cloves, one ounce cinnamon stick and one pint vine- 
gar; let it come to a boil and pour over the peaches; let stand until 
next day ; pour off liquid ; reheat and pour over fruit again ; the third 
day reheat the liquid and put in the peaches, a few at a time, and 
boil; then put in jars and seal. 

ROSE APPLES Mrs. C. E. Jones 

Peel and core six small apples. Put into a saucepan with one 
cupful of sugar, one and one-half cups of water and five cents worth 
of red cinnamon drops. Boil gently until apples are tender and a 
pretty pink color. Kemove carefully to a dish and let the syrup 
continue boiling until it jellies. Pour over the apples. Serve as a 
garnish or in glass sherbet cups and top with whipped cream. 

154 



Preserves 

■tifiitiiitiiiiiittiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiuiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiitiiiiiiiiiiiitiiiiiitiiiiitiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiMiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiin 

MINCE MEAT Mrs. T. B. Orr 

One-half beef tongue chopped fine; six large sour apples; one 
quart of wine ; one cup molasses ; juice of one large orange and grated 
rind; two lemons, that is, juice and grated rind; two pints gran- 
ulated sugar; one pint currant jelly; two tablespoonfuls cinnamon; one 
tablespoonful salt; one-half teaspoonful black pepper; two nutmegs; 
one large cup suet chopped fine, cooked; two pounds seeded raisins; 
one cup chopped citron; brandy enough to make moist. Use cold, 
strong coffee if brandy is objectionable. 

MINCE MEAT A. E. Loring 

One quart bowl each of chopped lean beef and of chopped apples ; 
two quinces chopped fine; one-half bowl each of suet and molasses; 
one and one-half bowls each of brown sugar; raisins; currants; one- 
half bowl of candied lemon and orange peel chopped fine; one-half 
bowl of citron chopped fine, grated rind and juice of two lemons; 
one glass jelly; one pint of boiled cider; one pint of sweet cider; four 
level teaspoonfuls cinnamon; one level teaspoonful cloves; one-third 
teaspoonful white pepper; three teaspoonfuls salt and one grated 
nutmeg. Allow meat to cool in the water in which it was cooked; 
remove all membrane from suet and cream it with your hand; chop 
meat, add suet, apples, quinces, molasses, sugar, raisins, currants, 
orange and lemon peel, citron, lemon juice, jelly and cider; heat 
gradually and let it simmer three hours. "When cool add the spices 
and if desired, brandy to taste. 

MINCE MEAT 

Mix together one cup chopped apples ; one-half cup raisins, seeded 
and chopped ; one-half cup currants ; one-fourth cup butter ; one table- 
spoonful molasses; one tablespoonful boiled eider; one cup sugar; one 
teaspoonful cinnamon ; one-half teaspoonful each of cloves and grated 
nutmeg; one salt spoon mace. Add enough stock in which meat was 
cooked to moisten; heat gradually to boiling point and simmer one 
hour; then add one cup chopped meat and two tablespoonfuls currant 
jelly. Cook fifteen minutes. 

GREEN TOMATO MINCE MEAT Mrs. Ada Woods 

One peck green tomatoes, wash well and cut off blossom end ; put 
through meat chopper ; put on stove and pour over them boiling water 
and scald; drain this water off, put back on stove and repeat the 
process. After they have been scalded and drained three times, add 
one peck of apples, washed, cored and quartered and put through the 
meat chopper; five pounds sugar; two pounds raisins; one and one- 
half pounds beef suet; two tablespoonfuls salt; three tablespoonfuls 
cinnamon ; one teaspoonful cloves ; two teaspoonfuls nutmeg and one 
teaspoonful allspice. Cook one and one-half hours, stirring constantly 
as it burns very easily; add three cups vinegar and seal while hot. 

155 



Preserves 

IIHinMUIinUIHMIIMIIIIHIUIMniMIHIMIIIIinillllHIHMHMUnillliniUIIMMIMIUIIiniUIIIIIUIMnillMMIMIIMinUMIIIIMIIMIMIMHIIIMlllHMIMnUIIIIMIlinilllMIUIIIUMMIIUMIIMI 

MINCE MEAT Mrs. J. P. Cobb 

One-half pound suet ; five pounds stoned raisins ; three pounds dried 
currants ; one and one-half pound citron ; six pounds sugar ; one and 
one-half pints molasses ; six pounds round of beef ; one-half peck sour 
apples; one quart boiled cider; one quart California brandy; one pint 
California sherry; three nutmegs; one-half cup cinnamon; one-fourth 
cup ground cloves. 

MINCE MEAT Mrs. Elizabeth Iglehart 

Six pounds round beef chopped fine ; eight pounds chopped apples ; 
four pounds raisins with seeds ; four pounds currants ; one and one-half 
pounds suet shredded; two and one-half pounds sugar; one-half pint 
alcohol ; two quarts cider ; two quarts water ; one nutmeg grated ; four 
heaping teaspoonfuls cinnamon; one heaping teaspoonful cloves; six 
heaping teaspoonfuls allspice; two pounds chopped cooked figs; one 
pound chopped citron; one pint good whiskey. Mix meat and fruits 
thoroughly, then add the liquor. 



156 



Preserves 

■fiiiiiiiiiiifiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiifiiittiifiiififiifinitiiiifififiitiiifiiiiiiiiifiiiiiiiiiiiiftiiiiiiiiiifiiiiiiiiitttiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiitfiitifiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiittiiiifiiifliiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiitiiniiii 



157 



Preserves 

iiiiiiiiiiijiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiitiiiiiiiiiiiitiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiitiitiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiniiia 



158 



BEVERAGES 



Then said the Judge, "A sweeter draught 
From a fairer hand was never quaffed.' '' 

— Whittier. 



GRAPE JUICE MINT JULEP Midlothian Country Club 

One teaspoonf ul powdered sugar ; enough water to dissolve sugar ; 
a dozen sprigs of mint ; put in bottom of glass ; fill glass with fine ice 
and pour white grape juice over that to nearly fill glass, serve with 
slices of orange, pineapple and sprigs of mint on top. 

GRAPE JUICE Mrs. R. C. Foster 

To ten pounds of New York Concord grapes add three pints of 
boiled water. Cook and strain. Put in one pound of granulated sugar. 
Let stand over night to clear. Strain in the morning, bring to a boil 
and skim. Have jars, or bottles, hot, and bottle immediately. 

GRAPE JUICE LEMONADE 

Mix the juice of two lemons with half a cup of granulated sugar, 
then stir in one pint of grape juice ; continue to stir it until the sugar 
is dissolved, add enough cold water to make a quart of liquid; turn 
into a pitcher in which there is a piece of ice. Add a few thin slices 
of lemon from which the seeds have been removed, and a few mara- 
schino cherries. Serve with an extra supply of lemon and pineapple, 
cherries and sprigs of fresh mint, that each glass may be decorated. 

MULLED GRAPE JUICE 

Wash and pick over one cupful of seedless raisins; set over the 
fire with two cupf uls of cold water and four sticks of cinnamon ; sim- 
mer very slowly, never reaching a hard boil, for three-quarters of an 
hour. Add to them one quart of grape juice, and let this become 
scalding hot, take from fire, add juice of a lemon and serve hot. 

GRAPE JUICE Mrs. E. Lewis Phelps 

Wash and stem four pints of blue grapes. Have a gallon jug 
scalded and drained; put in grapes and cover with a syrup made of 
two pounds of sugar and eight cups of water; fill jug with boiling 
water; cork tightly. Following morning drive cork in tighter and 
cover with wax. Will be ready to serve in three weeks. 

159 



Beverages 

IIIMliMIIIIirilllMlIllMIIIMIIllIlllllllimillillllltllllllllllilllllllllllinillMIIIIIIMI llllllMlllllllltllllllllllllllllllinitMIIIlMllIllllllMltlllllllllllllliniltlllllllllllllJlllIlllltlllllllMIi 

GRAPE JUICE Mrs. W. D. Hurlbut 

Ten pounds of grapes; three pounds of sugar; one cup water. 
Put the grapes and water in the preserving kettle, heat until pulp and 
seeds separate. Strain through jelly bag. Then add sugar to the 
juice heated to boiling point, then pour into hot sterilized bottles and 
seal. When serving add crushed ice. 

GRAPE JUICE HIGHBALL 

Put a piece of ice in each glass; rather more than half fill the 
glasses with grape juice, then fill with charged water (from a syphon). 

CHERRY JULEP Mrs. Louis Geyler 

Cook one pint of red cherries, stoned, in one-half cupful sugar 
syrup until soft; cool and add one-half cupful cider; one-half cupful 
maraschino and a few sprigs of mint. Crush mint cherries, fill tall 
glasses with shaved ice and mixture alternately and stir, without touch- 
ing glasses with hands, until they are well frosted. Garnish with a 
slice of pineapple and a sprig of mint dipped in powdered sugar. 

GINGER ALE PUNCH Miss Agnes Sieber 

Add one bunch of mint to juice of five lemons and one cupful 
sugar ; bruise mint and let stand several hours on ice. Squeeze through 
cloth and add one lemon and one orange cut in thin half slices and 
two pints of ginger ale ; add ice and one pint ginger ale. Garnish with 
mint. 

MINT PUNCH 

Cook one cupful sugar with two cupfuls water, grated rind of an 
orange and a lemon, a piece of stick cinnamon and twelve cloves. 
Cool and strain, add juice of three lemons and four oranges; one 
bunch of fresh mint leaves and two drops of oil of spearmint. Place on 
ice for two hours. Strain again and add one-fourth cupful preserved 
ginger, cut in dice. Color green and add ice and one pint club soda. 
Garnish with mint. 

STRAWBERRY PUNCH 

Mash one quart strawberries, add juice of one-half pineapple, one 
lemon, two oranges and two cupfuls sugar cooked in five cupfuls water. 
Place on ice and strain into pitcher filled with ice and add whole 
strawberries and any fruits in season. 

CHOCOLATE MILK SHAKE 

One-fourth cup finely crushed ice; two tablespoonfuls chocolate 
syrup; one-half cup milk; one-fourth cup apollinaris water or soda 
water from syphon. Put ice in tumbler, add remaining ingredients, 
and shake until well mixed. Serve with or without whipped cream, 
sweetened and flavored. 

160 



Beverages 

iHmiuitmiiimminmiimiiiiiiiiiinmiiMiiiiiiiiMmiiHmtiitiMinmiiiiiiiiiiuiiiiiiiH 

GINGER ALE Mrs. C. A. Carscadin 

One and three-fourths pounds of sugar; one and one-half ounce 
whole ginger; two and one-half ounces cream of tartar; one lemon 
sliced; seven quarts of boiling water and two cents worth of yeast. 
Put the sugar and spices in a stone jar ; pour boiling water over them 
and let them stand covered in a cool place for twenty-four hours. 
Then add the yeast, dissolved in luke warm water, and let stand again 
for twenty-four hours. Put in bottles, cork well and after three days it 
is ready for use. 

GINGERADE Mrs. W. L. Gregson 

One quart of cold water, one cup sugar, one-fourth ounce white 
ginger root, juice two oranges and one lemon. Put the water and 
sugar to boil, add ginger root broken into small bits. Let it boil 
twenty minutes after boiling begins, remove from the fire and add 
fruit juice. Strain and cool. Serve with powdered ice and a pre- 
served or sweet cherry in each glass. 

BLACK COW Midlothian Country Club 

Put fine ice in glass and nearly fill with sarsaparilla, pour cream 
carefully on top of that and serve. 

A DELICIOUS FRUIT CUP Midlothian Country Club 

Put one pint of water, one pound of sugar and the grated yellow 
rind of one lemon on to boil for five minutes; strain and while hot 
slice into it two bananas ; one grated pineapple and one-fourth pound 
stoned cherries. When ready to serve add the juice of six lemons. 
Put in the center of your punch bowl, as guard, a block of ice ; pour 
over it two quarts of apollinaris, add the fruit mixture and at the 
last moment one dozen strawberries and mix all together. 

CHOCOLATE PRAPPE S. Blanche Backman 

Put a quart of rich milk in a double boiler, stir into it gradually 
three-fourths of a cup grated chocolate and sweeten to taste. Boil 
five minutes, stirring all the while ; then pour into an earthen dish and 
add a teaspoonful of vanilla and set on ice. Have chopped ice in the 
bottom of the glasses ; then fill the glasses within a quarter of an inch 
of the brim. Put sweetened whipped cream on top. If desired the 
whipped cream can be dotted in the middle with fruit jelly. 

CREAMY COCOA 

Stir together in a saucepan half a cup cocoa, half a cup flour, 
half a cup granulated sugar and half a teaspoonful salt. Add gradu- 
ally one quart boiling water and let mixture boil five minutes, stirring 
it constantly. Remove from fire, add a quart boiling milk, and serve. 
If desired a spoonful whipped cream may be put in each cup before 
filling with cocoa. (Flour should be sifted before measured.) The 
above recipe will serve twelve persons. 

lei 



Beverages 

4iitiitiiiiiititiiiifiiiiiiiiiiiiitiiiiiiiiiiiiiiitiiiiiiiifiitiiiiiiiuiiiiiiiiiiitiiiiififttiiiiiiiiiiittfiiiitiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiitiiiiiiiiiiiit(itiiiiiiiiiiiiii>iiiiiiiiiiiiiitiiiifiiiittiiiiiiiitn 

CURRANT LEMONADE Mrs. W. L. Gregson 

One glass of currant jelly; one cup sugar; two lemons; beat the 
jelly very thoroughly with the sugar and add the lemon juice and two 
quarts water and a generous piece of ice. 

ICED COFFEE 

Iced coffee served with orange is also delicious. Add half cup 
orange syrup to three cups coffee and shake in a shaker with a little 
chopped ice. Turn into thin glasses and add a spoonful whipped 
cream. 

COCOA EGG-NOG 

Beat white of an egg to a stiff froth, adding tiny pinch of salt. 
Sweeten, flavor with vanilla and put aside about two teaspoonfuls. 
Add. yolk to the rest and beat well, then add enough rather rich cold 
cocoa to fill tumbler. Stir well together and put the remainder of the 
beaten white on top. Serve at once, and ice cold. 

LEMON TRIFFLE 

Two lemons ; two oranges ; twelve lumps loaf sugar ; two teaspoon- 
fuls brandy; two teaspoonfuls Jamaica rum; a little grated nutmeg; 
one-half pint double cream, whipped. Grate rind of one orange and 
two lemons and squeeze juice of all on the sugar and let stand until 
dissolved. Stir well and serve in glasses with a spoonful of cream 
on top. This serves four persons. 

RASPBERRY VINEGAR Mrs. W. W. Backman 

Mash six quarts of berries (red or black). Pour two quarts of 
cider over the berries and let them stand all day and night. The 
next day mash six more quarts of berries ; strain first six quarts and 
pour over last six quarts of berries and let stand another night and 
day; then strain all again. To every pint of juice add one pint of 
sugar and boil about twenty minutes ; then bottle. When serving, use 
about one-third of the raspberry vinegar to two-thirds water. 

EGG-NOG 

Beat separately the white and yolk of an egg. Stir a heaping 
teaspoonful of sugar and a tablespoonful of grape juice into the yolk ; 
pour into tall glass, add the whipped white and fill glass with un- 
skimmed milk. Serve cold with light cakes or thin bread and butter. 



162 



Beverages 

ttllUIIIIlllllllilllltlllllllllltlllllllllllllllltlllllllllllllllltllllllllllltlllllltlflllltllltllllltllfllllllllllllllllllllllltlllllllllllllltfllltlllllllllllllllllllltllltllllllllllllllllllllllllltliltilliliiiii 



163 



Beverages 

IIISMIUfllUMUilllJMIlJUIIIlllllIlltlllllUllUllllllllIJIllllIllltJIlIlllllIMlllllllllllIllUIIIIIMIllllllIlllItlllMIItlltlllllllltlllllllllMllllMllllllllllllllltllllllllluilttllllllllllM 



164 



SANDWICHES 



Would you know how first he met herf 
She was cutting bread and butter." 



SPANISH SANDWICH FILLING 

One large onion; three carrots; two red peppers; two green pep- 
pers (without seeds) ; two eggs, hard boiled; two sour pickles. Chop 
all the vegetables and pickle very fine ; squeeze dry in a cheese cloth, 
add the chopped eggs and one-half cup mayonnaise. 



LUNCHEON SANDWICH Mrs. C. S. Junge 

Fry two slices of bacon for each sandwich. Toast bread. Pour 
over the first layer of toast a little of the bacon fat. In remaining 
fat stir a tablespoonful flour, add a cup and a half of milk and cook 
until creamed. On the slice of toast place a slice of cold roast beef, 
chicken or veal, and on that two slices of tomatoes; then the slices of 
bacon. Place on the second slice of toast and turn over all the 
creamed gravy, and serve. 

TASTY FILLING Mrs. W. D. Hurlbut 

One bunch of radishes, washed but with the skins left on and a 
bit of the green stem; one Spanish onion peeled; chop together until 
very fine. Make a highly seasoned boiled mayonnaise, mix with the 
radishes and onion and spread thin slices of buttered bread; put a 
lettuce leaf over the mixture and then another slice of buttered bread. 

ANCHOVY SANDWICH Mrs. Francis A. Sieber 

Two tablespoonfuls creamed butter; one-half cup grated cheese; 
one teaspoonful French mustard; one teaspoonful Tarragon vinegar; 
and anchovy paste. Add one tablespoonful minced olives, pickles, 
salt and paprika. Spread on bread. 

CHICKEN AND BACON SANDWICH Mrs. Louis Geyler 

Mix equal portions of chicken, bacon and celery; add one tea- 
spoonful minced green pepper and a few drops of tarragon vinegar. 
Lay lettuce strips across sandwiches and when serving, lay a slice of 
tomato on each and cover with the minced chicken mixture. Top with 
a spoonful of mayonnaise. 

165 



Sandwiches 

tiiiitiiiuiiiiiiiiiiiiiiitiiittuaiiitiiiiiiiiiiiiiiitiiiiiiiiiiiitiitiMiiiiiiiiiiuiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiitiiiitiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiituiiiiiuiiiiiiiiiiifiiiiiiitiiiiiiiiuiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiniiiiiiiiinjtiiii 

SANDWICH (CHICKEN AND HAM) Miss Agnes Sieber 

Mix one cup minced chicken with two-thirds cup minced ham ; add 
four tablespoonfuls each of chopped pickles, piementoes and creamed 
cheese, mashed smooth. Add paprika and spread on bread. 

BEEFSTEAK SANDWICH Mrs. W. R. McGhee 

Have a cut of tenderloin of beef for each sandwich; butter two 
slices of bread and lay them side by side; broil the steak, seasoning 
well and lay on one piece of bread ; on the other place a slice of Spanish 
onion which has been thoroughly chilled to make it brittle. 

CHEESE, PECAN NUT AND PIMENTO SANDWICH 

Cut Boston brown bread and white bread into thin slices and stamp 
into rings with a doughnut cutter. Beat one-fourth cupful of butter 
to a cream; gradually beat in half a cupful (measured light) of grated 
cheese, half a teaspoonful paprika and one-fourth cupful sliced pecan 
nut meats. Use this to spread the prepared bread; drop on the mix- 
ture here and there thin slices of piemento, then press the two pieces 
together. 

CHEESE SANDWICHES Mrs. Helen Armstrong 

One hard boiled egg ; one-half teaspoonful salt ; one-fourth pound 
grated cheese ; one-half teaspoonful pepper ; one-half teaspoonful mus- 
tard ; one tablespoonful melted butter ; three tablespoonfuls lemon juice 
or vinegar. Rub yolk of egg to paste and add salt and pepper, butter 
and mustard ; then add lemon juice to make right consistency. Spread 
between thin slices of bread. 

DREAM SANDWICHES Mrs. W. L. Clock 

One-half cup of pecan nuts chopped fine; one-half cup stoned 
raisins; one apple; juice of one-half lemon; one spoonful sugar. Mix 
with a small amount of cream and spread it on bread thin. It makes an 
excellent filling for sandwiches. 

HOT CHEESE SANDWICHES 

These are particularly nice for Sunday evening teas. Slice the bread 
very thin ; put a thick layer of grated cheese between the two forms ; 
sprinkle with salt and a dash of cayenne pepper and press the bread 
well together. Fry them to a delicate brown on each side in equal 
parts of hot lard and butter and serve very hot. 

HOT CHEESE SANDWICH Mrs. W. D. Hurlbut 

On a slice of bread, well buttered, place a fairly thick piece of 
yellow American cheese ; sprinkle with salt and paprika pepper ; cover 
with another slice of buttered bread and place under the blaze in the 
broiler to toast ; when one side is done turn over and toast other side. 
By the time both sides are toasted the cheese is quite soft. 

168 



Sandwiches 

iiiiiiiiiifitiiiitiiiiiiiiiiiiiiittiiiiiiiiitiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiitiiiiiitiiiiiitiiiiifitiiiiiiitiiitiiiiiiiiiiittiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiinttiiiittiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiB 

JANE DABNEY'S CHEESE SANDWICH Mary S. Vanzwoll 

One and one-half cups grated cheese ; one egg ; two tablespoonfuls 
cream. Spread on bread and cover with a slice of bacon. Brown in a 
medium oven. 

CHEESE AND NUT SANDWICHES Mary Barwick Wells 

Chop pecans, hickory nuts or English walnuts ; mix with an equal 
quantity of cream or Neufchatel cheese. Butter thin slices of bread 
and spread with the cheese and nuts. Between the slices lay a heart- 
leaf of lettuce dipped in mayonnaise dressing. 

CUCUMBER SANDWICH Mrs. F. E. Place 

Peel and slice cucumbers like wafers ; put on the ice several hours 
before using. Mix with an oil mayonnaise and spread between thin 
slices of bread. 

FILLING FOR PIEMENTO SANDWICHES Mrs. J. E. Kelly 

Two tablespoonfuls sugar ; one teaspoonful salt ; one tablespoonful 
flour; mix. Yolks of two eggs, beaten; one-half cup water; one-half 
cup vinegar ; one teaspoonful butter. Cook in double boiler till thick. 
Add to: Three Eagle brand cream cheese; one small can pimentoes; 
one cupful walnuts or pecans; grind pimentoes and nuts and cream 
into the cheese. 

LAYER SANDWICHES 

Five slices of Boston brown bread, put together with cream cheese 
reduced with sweet cream or mayonnaise ; cut down in half -inch slices. 

OLIVE SANDWICHES 

Chop one-third olives and two-third chicken livers that have been 
thoroughly cooked and mashed quite smooth; mix with thick mayon- 
naise dressing. Serve in white bread, ice cold. 

EGG AND GREEN PEPPER SANDWICH 

Six hard boiled eggs ; one green pepper ; two tablespoonfuls olive 
oil; one tablespoonful ketchup; one-fourth teaspoonful salt and mus- 
tard; cream. Chop eggs and pepper, mix other ingredients and add 
to chopped eggs, moisten with cream and spread between thin slices 
of buttered bread. Cut in fancy shapes and keep in damp cloth until 
ready to serve. 

MAPLE SANDWICH Judith Slocum 

Put one cupful of finely shaved maple sugar through the meat 
chopper with one cupful of blanched almonds, then mix to a paste 
with thick sweet cream, Spread on slices of brown bread and white 
bread. 

167 



Sandwiches 

f llflfllllllllllllllHIIIIIlltllllllllllflllflltllllllllllllllllltllllll lIIIIIIl!ilIllllllllllll!:UtinilliilIltllMIIII!MMI!lIllllltiIllllMIIIIIlinillllllllIIIIIIIIIIIIITIIlIIIIMIIIIIMIIIllllIIIIII!li;ta 

DATE AND NUT SANDWICHES 

Remove the stones and scales from the dates and break them up 
with a fork. Chop pecan meats fine and use twice as many dates as 
nuts. Mix together and moisten with creamed butter, add a dash of 
salt. Spread between thin slices of bread. 

CARROT AND NUT SANDWICH 

Peel and chop carrots very fine ; allow a cup of minced nut meats 
to each cup of carrots and mix with mayonnaise. 



168 



EGG DISHES 



BAKED EGGS Mrs. C. A. Bowman 

Cover bottom of pan with fresh bread crumbs; drop eggs on 
them, being careful not to break them ; dot with butter and seasoning 
and bake. 

OMELET Mrs. E. Lewis Phelps 

One and one-half tablespoonful flour ; one and one-half tablespoon- 
ful butter; blend over fire and add one cup of milk. (This should be 
thick and stiff when cooked.) When about cold, add one cup, grated 
cheese (yellow American preferred) ; beat the yolks of seven eggs 
stiff, and when cold fold in the beaten whites ; add a little salt. Mince 
some cold boiled ham, onion and green pepper for a center filling. 
Set the dish in pan of water and bake. 

EGG BALLS Mrs. Ben Craycroft 

Serve with salad. Rub the yolks of four hard boiled eggs to a 
paste ; add a dash of salt, same of pepper ; six drops of Worcestershire 
sauce, and one teaspoonful melted butter. Moisten with the beaten 
yolk of one egg and shape in small balls. Roll in flour and saute in 
butter. Fry to a delicate brown. 

ESCALLOPED EGGS Mrs. Ben Craycroft 

Six eggs; two tablespoonfuls of cream to each egg; season with 
pepper, butter and salt and sprinkle cracker or bread crumbs over the 
top. Bake in rather quick oven. 

ESCALLOPED EGGS 

Make a force meat of chopped ham, fine bread crumbs, pepper, 
salt, a little minced parsley and some melted butter. Moisten it with 
milk to a soft paste and half fill patty pans with the mixture. Break 
an egg carefully upon the top of each, dust with pepper, salt and sift 
some very finely powdered cracker over it all. Set in hot oven and 
bake until the eggs are well set (about eight minutes), and serve hot. 

A SITTING OP EGGS Mrs. Ben Craycroft 

Take the number of eggs to be cooked and separate the whites 
and yolks. Beat the whites to a froth, add a little salt. Butter a 
pan ; then pour in the whites ; then dip the yolks around in the whites ; 
put in oven, bake two or three minutes and serve. 

171 



Egg Dishes 

iiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiii iiiiniiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiii iiiitiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiii iiiiiiiiiiiiiiii iiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiuiiiniiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiii iiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiii imiiiii 

HAM OMELET Mrs. Gorham 

Chop fine cold boiled ham. Beat four eggs; add two tablespoon- 
fuls milk, salt and pepper to taste. Mix with ham and fry on hot grid- 
dle, dropping a spoonful at a time. Serve hot. Any cold meat may 
be utilized in the same way. 

OMELET Mrs. Edward E. Swadener 

Four eggs ; one-half cupful milk. Separate the whites of the eggs, 
beat to a stiff froth ; beat the yolks well and add salt, pepper and one- 
half cupful milk. Fold in the beaten whites. Have the oven hot; 
have the spider hot, put in a generous tablespoonful butter (bacon or 
ham drippings may be used), and when it melts add eggs. Let the 
omelet "set," then put it into the hot oven to brown. It should slip 
out of the spider without breaking if enough butter (or substitute) 
has been used. Have platter heated on which the omelet is to be 
served. 

EGGS POACHED WITH ARTICHOKES Mrs. Francis A. Sieber 

Cover eight rounds of toast with eight artichoke fonds (cooked 
or canned). Put a whole poached egg in center of each, and cover 
with brown sauce seasoned with ham. Dust eggs with powdered 
parsley. 

EGGS IN GREEN PEPPERS Mrs. Louis Geyler 

Chop one-half dozen hard boiled eggs; add one-half cup minced 
ham, and fill a buttered dish lined with crumbs with alternate layers 
of eggs and cream sauce, seasoned with salt, minced green peppers, 
parsley and chives. Spread crumbs on top, dot with butter, and bake; 
or bake in green peppers. 

SPANISH EGG Mrs. Harry H. Small 

Blend two tablespoonfuls of melted butter and one tablespoonful 
of flour in a chafing dish. Add one pint of milk and cook to a thick 
cream. Add salt and paprika and a dash of cayenne pepper. Then 
add half a pound of American cheese cut in very small pieces and cook 
until well blended together. Have one large onion and one green 
pepper cut in chips and fried as tender as butter, taking care not to 
brown the onion. Add to the onion and pepper one-half can of toma- 
toes, cook for five minutes together, and add to the cream sauce. Have 
six eggs boiled hard, slice and add to the mixture. Serve on toast on 
hot plates. 

EGGS IN BATTER 

One egg; one and one-half tablespoonfuls thick cream; two ta- 
blespoonfuls fine stale bread crumbs; one-fourth teaspoonful salt. 
Mix cream, bread crumbs and salt. Put one-half tablespoonful of 
mixture in egg-shirrer. Slip in egg and cover with remaining mix- 
ture. Bake six minutes in moderate oven. 

172 



Egg Dishes 

uiiiiiiiiiii miiiniiiiiiii nun luiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiii iiiiiiiiiiniiiii iiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiH 

SCOTCH EGGS FOR BREAKFAST Mrs. A. M. Studley 

Boil six eggs twenty minutes. When cold, remove shells. Roll 
in sausage meat about one-half inch thick all over ; put in the ice box 
over night. Then fry, turning all the time till brown. Serve on 
platter, cutting them open, and garnish with Saratoga potatoes. 

POACHED EGGS ON RICE TOAST 

Put one quart of rice into one quart of boiling water, to which has 
been added one teaspoonful salt, boil rapidly for fifteen minutes, then 
place on back of stove and steam twenty minutes. When the rice has 
absorbed all of the water press into a square mold or bread pan and set 
aside to cool. When cold cut into slices, place in wire broiler and 
toast over hot fire. Poach as many eggs as you have slices of toast 
and place an egg on each slice. Sprinkle with pepper and salt and 
serve very hot. 

EGGS DELICIOUS Alice Clock 

Six hard boiled eggs; one pint milk; one tablespoonful (heap- 
ing) butter; two tablespoonfuls flour; one tin sifted peas. Mix the 
butter and flour smoothly; slowly add milk while stirring constantly 
over slow fire, until white sauce is nicely smooth. Season sauce to 
taste, with paprika and salt ; and add hard-boiled eggs, cut in halves. 
Pour over the whole the sifted peas, and as soon as the peas are heated, 
being careful not to stir, serve on rounds of toast. This amount will 
serve six people. 

EGG RELISH Mrs. A. Donald Campbell 

One cupful of bread crumbs ; one cup cream and five eggs. When 
the cream has been absorbed by the crumbs and the eggs well beaten 
add pepper and salt with a teaspoonful of chopped parsley. Fry as 
an omelet. 

EGG GARNISH 

Boil six eggs. Cut them into halves, and remove yolks. Fill 
the whites with chopped cucumbers, over which a French dressing has 
been poured. Serve these upon shredded lettuce. 

A LUNCHEON DISH Mrs. William E. Mason 

Butter baking dish; drop in six eggs, whole; grate American 
cheese, thickly. Sprinkle a little salt, pepper and small pieces of but- 
ter over them and bake slowly. Serve in baking dish. 

EGGS A LA BUCKINGHAM 

Make five slices milk toast, and arrange on platter. Use receipe 
for scrambled eggs, having the eggs slightly under-done. Pour eggs 
over toast, sprinkle with four tablespoonfuls grated mild cheese. Put 
in oven to melt cheese, and finish cooking eggs. 

173 



Egg Dishes 

tniitiitiiittiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiniiiiiitiiiiitiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiitiiiiiiiiiitiiiiiiiiiiiuiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiHiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiuiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiitiiiiiiiii 

EGGS A LA GOLDENROD Charlotte V. Thearle 

Three hard boiled eggs, one tablespoonful butter, one table- 
spoonful flour, one cup milk, one-half teaspoonful salt, one-third tea- 
spoonful pepper, five slices toast, parsley. Make a thin white sauce 
with butter, flour, milk and seasonings. Separate yolks from whites 
of eggs. Chop whites finely and add them to the sauce. Cut four 
slices of toast in halves lengthwise. Arrange on platter and pour over 
the sauce. Force the yolks through a potato ricer or strainer, sprink- 
ling over the top. Garnish with parsley and remaining toast cut in 
points. 

EGGS A LA MARTIN 

One cup white sauce, six eggs, one-fourth pound grated cheese. 
Break eggs carefully into a well buttered pudding dish, cover with 
white sauce and sprinkle cheese over all. Bake fifteen minutes in mod- 
erate oven. 

EGGS A LA LEE Mrs. Harry F. Atwood 

Cover circular pieces of toasted bread with thin slices cold boiled 
ham. Arrange on each a dropped egg y and pour around mushroom 
sauce. 

Sauce : Clean one-fourth pound mushrooms, break cap in pieces, 
and saute five minutes in one tablespoonful butter. Add one cup 
chicken stock and simmer five minutes. Rub through a sieve and 
thicken with one tablespoonful each butter and flour cooked together. 
Season with salt and pepper. 

EGGS A LA FRANCOISE 

Poach two eggs in boiling water acidulated with lemon juice and 
slightly salted. Arrange the eggs on rounds of toasted bread, pour 
over a tomato sauce made as follows, and garnish with toast points. 

Sauce: Put one large tablespoonful butter in the chafing dish 
(or skillet), one teaspoonful minced onion, one tablespoonful minced 
carrot and fry. "With this blend two level tablespoonfuls flour and 
add one cup of canned tomatoes sifted, and one-third teaspoonful beef 
extract. Dissolve in one tablespoonful hot water, simmer and strain. 

TO BOIL EGGS FOR AN INVALID 

Have water boiling, pour over eggs and cover tightly; put on 
back of stove and stand five minutes. The whites of the eggs will be 
firmly set and the yolks soft. 



174 



Egg Dishes 



llllllinnillllHMIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIMIIIIIllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllMIIIIIIMIIIIIIIII 1 1 J i 1 1 T 1 1 1 f 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1  1 1 1 1 1 1 1 



175 



Egg Dishes 

iiiiiuiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiitiiiMiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiHiiiiiiiiniiiiiiiniiiiiMiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiriiiiiiiniiiuiiiiiiiHiiitiiiii iiniiiiiiiiHiiitiiiiuiiniiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiHiiiiiiiiiiiiiiuiHiiiiiitiiiitt 



176 



CHEESE DISHES 



"Wilt, please f your honor, taste of these." 

— Shakespeare. 



CHEESE BALLS Mrs. W. H. Hart 

One and one-half cupfuls cream cheese ; one-half teaspoonf ul salt ; 
one-fourth teaspoonf ul paprika ; three eggs, whites beaten firm ; cracker 
crumbs. Add salt and paprika to cheese, then fold in whites and roll 
into small balls ; roll in cracker crumbs and fry in deep fat. 

CHEESE SOUFFLE Mrs. Max Mauerman 

Two tablespoonfuls flour ; two tablespoonfuls butter ; one-half cup 
grated cheese ; four eggs ; one pint of milk. 

Method : Rub butter and flour together over fire ; when they bub- 
ble, add gradually hot milk. Remove from fire ; add the beaten yolks ; 
cool the mixture; then add the beaten whites, stirring all together 
thoroughly. Put in baking dish well buttered, bake in moderately hot 
oven for fifteen or twenty minutes or until it sets like custard. Serve 
at once. 

CHEESE SOUFFLE Mrs. Frank Sessions 

Break a slice of fresh bread about three inches thick into small 
pieces, pour over it a cup of milk, let stand while you prepare the rest 
of the ingredients. Grate enough yellow American cheese to make 
three heaping tablespoonfuls; beat three eggs until light and frothy; 
add the cheese and eggs to the bread, mix thoroughly and put in a 
buttered baking dish ; bake half an hour or until brown. Serve imme- 
diately. 

FROZEN CHEESE 

Rub two Neufchatel cheese to a paste, add one cup whipped 
cream, one-half cup finely chopped olives, one-fourth cup finely chopped 
pimentoes. Season with salt, cayenne, lemon juice or vinegar to taste. 
Soften one teaspoonful granulated gelatine in one tablespoonful cold 
water, dissolve over hot water, cool and add to cheese, mix well and 
turn into one-half pound baking powder cans previously wet with cold 
water, cover with a piece of white paper, adjust covers and pack in ice 
and salt. Let stand for several hours. Serve with salad course with 
toasted water crackers. 

177 



Cheese Dishes 

•IlllllllllllllllllllllllltlltUttllllllllJtllllllllllllltllllllllllllllllllllfllJIIIIIlllllltllltlllllllllUIIlllllIJIlIlllllllllllllillllllllltlllltlllllllllllllltlllllltllUllUlllltllllllllllllllilllllUIttlUUI 

SUNDAY SUPPER MUSH Mrs. A. Donald Campbell 

One cup corn meal; one quart of milk, salted to taste. Cook in 
double boiler. Just before removing, add one egg. Spread the mix- 
ture on a board three-fourths inch thick. When cold, cut in shapes 
and put slice of American cheese on top, put in buttered dish and set 
in oven long enough for cheese to melt and brown. 

CHEESE DELIGHT Mrs. H. Clay Calhoun 

One-half pound American cheese ; two eggs, well beaten ; salt and 
paprika to taste. Cook in a double boiler until thick. Serve on round 
of bread and toast in oven. 

CHEESE RICE Mrs. Ralph Wilder 

Fill a baking dish with alternate layers of cooked salted rice and 
grated cheese; moisten with milk and cover with bits of butter; add 
dash of red pepper if liked. Bake to golden brown. 

CHEESE STRAWS Mrs. Elizabeth F. Pearce 

One cupful grated cheese; salt and pepper to taste; two table- 
spoonfuls melted butter; three tablespoonfuls cold water, and flour 
sufficient for soft dough. Cut into strips. Bake in a quick oven 
until brown and crispy. 

CHEESE BALLS Susy M. Horton 

Beat two eggs very light, and just enough grated cheese to handle 
the mixture, red pepper and salt to taste. Roll into balls, the size 
of a walnut, dip in egg and cracker crumbs and fry in hot lard a deli- 
cate brown. To be served hot with salad. 

WELSH RAREBIT Mrs. Harry H. Small 

One pound of American cheese cut in dice ; butter the size of an 
egg; melt butter and cheese in a chafing dish, blending together until 
smooth. Beat up one egg and stir into cheese, adding milk until the 
right consistency. Add mustard salt and paprika and a teaspoonful 
of Worcestershire sauce. Serve on thin slices of toast, on hot plates. 

WELSH RAREBIT 

One cup hot milk ; one-quarter pound grated cheese ; one-half tea- 
spoonful salt : one-quarter teaspoonful mustard ; one teaspoonful flour ; 
one teaspoonful butter: one egg; dash of cayenne. Put the milk to 
heat. Mix the grrated cheese, flour, mustard, salt, cayenne and egg well 
beaten, add milk when hot, a little at a time, to the mixture, stirring 
all the time. Cook until smooth and very creamy. Take from heat 
and add butter, stirring well. Serve hot on slices of toast. The milk 
should be added slowly. Toast bread on one side only. Pour rarebit 
on untoasted side. 

178 



Cheese Dishes 

■iiiiiiitiitiiiMiiiiititciiEiiiiiiiitiitiiitiiiiiifiiitiiiiiiiiiiitfiiiiitiiitiifiitiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiititiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiitiniiiiiiiitiiiiiifiiiiiiiiiiititiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiuiiiiiiiiiiiia 

CHEESE WAFERS Mrs. Helen Armstrong 

Beat the whites of two eggs very stiff; add pepper and salt; mix 
in gently half a cup grated cheese ; spread lightly over salted wafers. 
Sprinkle with cheese and brown in moderate oven. 

CHEESE BALLS Mrs. Fred L. Kimmey 

Whites of three eggs; one cup grated cheese; one tablespoonful 
flour; pinch of salt and red pepper. Form into balls, roll in cracker 
crumbs and fry in deep fat. This makes fifteen small balls. 



179 



Egg Dishes 



iiuMuiiiiiiiiniiiuiiMiiiHiiiiMiiuutuiiUMiiMniiUHiuiiiiiMMUiniiiiMiiiiMniiMiniuniuMMiiiMuntuiinnMiMiiuiiiMniiiiMiitiHiiuHiiiiiiiiiiniiiniiniiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiii 



180 



CANDIES 



A wilderness of sweets." 

— Milton. 



FONDANT Mrs. E. A. Thompson 

Two and one-half pounds fine granulated sugar ; one and one-half 
cups water ; one-half teaspoonful cream of tartar. Place in a saucepan, 
set on back of stove. When clear let come to a boil until it reaches 
242 degrees, or until it holds together when dropped into cold water. 
Take from fire and cool. When lukewarm, beat until thick enough 
to kneed, turn out on marble or platter and work until thick. 

FONDANT 

One pound white sugar and half cup water, stir over the fire until 
it dissolves, no longer. Then boil, without stirring, until it makes a 
very soft ball when tested in water (cold). Pour out on a platter and 
when slightly cool beat until you have a creamy mass, then work and 
knead with the hands until it is soft and smooth. Never boil but one 
pound of sugar at a time no matter how much candy you intend 
making. Pack your fondant all together in an earthen bowl and cover 
with a damp cloth until the next day. Then shape into the desired 
forms. Use for all kinds of French creams. 

MEXICAN CARAMELS Mrs. A. Donald Campbell 

One cup granulated sugar; one large cup milk or cream; one- 
fourth teaspoonful soda. Caramel the sugar and add soda to milk 
warmed; after caramel is dissolved add two cups of brown sugar; do 
not let boil until sugar is thoroughly dissolved; then boil until it 
hardens when dropped in cold water. Add cup of nut meats. 

COFFEE CARAMELS 

One cupful sugar and one-half cupful cream and one-quarter cup- 
ful strong coffee. Stir constantly over a hot fire, and turn on a 
greased tin. 

MAPLE CARAMELS 

One cupful sugar (maple) and three-quarters of a cupful of cream, 
placed in a saucepan. Stir constantly over a hot fire until it reaches 
the hard boil stage. Remove from fire, and turn on a greased tin. 

181 



Candies 

iiiiittiiiiiiiiaiiiiitiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiJiiiiiitiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiBiiiiiiiiiiiaiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiaiiiiiiiiiiitiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiaiiiiiiiitiiiiiiiiiiiiiiauiiiiiiiHU 

VANILLA CARAMELS 

Two level cups " Coffee C" brown sugar; one-half cup corn 
syrup j two-thirds cup cream ; one cup chopped nuts. Boil sugar, cream 
and corn syrup without stirring until hard ball forms when tried in 
cold water. Add nuts and vanilla, remove from fire and pour at once 
into buttered tin. Do not stir caramels. When cold, remove from pan 
in one sheet and cut in squares. Wrap in wax paper. 

CHOCOLATE CARAMELS 

Put in a saucepan half a cupful each of molasses, white sugar 
and brown sugar ; a cupful of grated chocolate and a cupful of cream 
or milk. Stir the mixture constantly over the fire until it reaches the 
hard-boil stage. Then add a teaspoonful vanilla and turn it onto a 
buttered tin, making the paste an inch thick. Mark it into inch squares 
and cut before it is quite cold. 

CHOCOLATE CARAMELS Mrs. E. A. Thompson 

Two squares chocolate; one cup sugar; one cup molasses; one cup 
milk; one-half cup melted butter. Boil on the top of stove over a 
brisk fire until it becomes brittle when dropped in cold water. Do not 
stir, but shake the vessel while boiling. Pour into a buttered' tin and 
check off into squares. 

VANILLA CARAMELS 

One cupful sugar and three-quarters of a cupful cream, placed 
in a saucepan. Stir constantly over a hot fire until it reaches the 
hard-boil stage. Remove from fire, add a teaspoonful vanilla and turn 
on a greased tin. 

KARO CARAMELS 

Boil one cup sugar, one cup Karo corn syrup, one-fourth cup water 
six minutes, then add two tablespoonfuls bufcter, and cook to the soft 
ball stage. Beat in a teaspoonful of vanilla extract or half a cup 
candied cherries cut in halves; beat thoroughly and turn into a shal- 
low buttered dish. When cold cut in cubes and wrap in confectioner's 
paper. 

ENGLISH WALNUT CANDY 

The white of one egg, beaten stiff; add a pound of Confectioners' 
sugar; stirring the sugar and egg till the mixture is stiff enough to 
roll into little balls. Add vanilla, and press the balls of candy between 
the halves of an English walnut. 

COCOANUT CANDY 

Two cups white sugar; one cup milk; one cup molasses; one-half 
cup butter ; try as molasses candy, and when done add one and one-half 
cups cocoanut and one teaspoonful vanilla. 

182 



Candies 

UIIlUllllllllIIIIlllIIIIlltltllllllllltlltllllllllllltlllllllllltlllllllllllllltllttlllllllllllllltllltlllllllllllllllllllllllllltlllllllfllltlltllllltilllllllllllllltllllltlllllllllllllllllllllllltlllllllllllllllA 

MAPLE CREAM 

To one pound of maple sugar take half a pint cream. Cook 
until it hardens in water. Stir frequently. Beat until cool. 

CHOCOLATE CREAMS 

Put three squares of chocolate in a dish over a tea kettle to melt. 
Boil two cups of white sugar, one cup water, one teaspoonful of glu- 
cose until stringy ; beat until creamy ; mold into the desired shapes and 
dip in chocolate. Put on whole nuts if desired. 

NOUGAT 

One cupful almonds, chopped and placed in oven to dry, being 
careful not to brown. Put into a saucepan two and one-half cupfuls 
powdered sugar and a tablespoonful lemon juice. Place it on fire 
and stir with a wooden spoon until it is melted and slightly colored. 
Let stand for a few minutes, so it will be thoroughly melted, then 
turn in the hot almonds, mix them together quickly, not stirring long 
enough to grain the sugar, and turn it on to an oiled slab or tin. 
Spread it out in an even sheet an eighth of an inch thick. While it 
is still warm mark off into squares. Break into pieces when cold. 

SUGARED ALMONDS 

Put a cupful granulated sugar in a saucepan with a little water, 
stir until it is dissolved, then let it cook to the boil stage without 
touching except to test. Turn in half cupful of blanched almonds 
and stir off the fire until the nuts are well covered with the gran- 
ulated sugar, but turn them out before they become a mass. Boil 
another cupful of sugar and turn the coated almonds into it, and 
stir again in the same way, giving them a second coating of sugar, 
but do not leave them in the pan until they are all stuck together. 

BURNT ALMONDS 

Place a cupful of brown sugar into a saucepan with a very little 
water. Stir until the sugar is dissolved. Let it boil a minute, then 
pour in half a cupful of almonds and stir over the fire until the sugar 
granulates and is a little brown. When the nuts are well coated, and 
before they get into one mass, turn them out and separate any that 
are stuck together. 

MARSHMALLOWS 

One-half box granulated gelatin soaked in three-fourths cup cold 
water (scant) ; two cups sugar cooked with three-fourths cup boiling 
water (scant) only until dissolved. Pour over gelatin, add flavoring 
and pinch salt and let stand until lukewarm. Beat first with egg 
beater, then with a spoon until stiff enough to spread in sheets. Pour 
into pans thickly dusted with mixture of powdered sugar and little 
corn starch. When chilled, turn on marble slab or platter and cut in 
cubes, roll in powdered sugar mixture and serve. 

183 



Candies 

UIIIIItllllllllllltlllllllllllllllltllllllllllltlllllllllllllllllllllllllllllttllttllllltlMIIIIIIItllllllllttllllllllllllltlltlllllllltttllllllllllllltllllllllllltllllllllltlllllfllllllflllllltlllllllUllltlllllllll 

MARSHMALLOWS 

Soak four ounces of gum arabic in a cupful of water until it is 
dissolved. Strain it to take out any black specks in it. Put the dis- 
solved gum arabic into a saucepan with half a pound of powdered 
sugar. Place the saucepan in a second pan containing boiling water; 
stir until the mixture becomes thick and white. When it is begin- 
ning to thicken test it by dropping a little into cold water; when it 
will form a ball remove it from fire. Stir into it the whites of three 
eggs whipped to a stiff froth. This will give a spongy texture. Lastly, 
flavor it with two teaspoonfuls of orange water. Turn the paste into 
a pan covered thick with cornstarch; the layer of paste should 
be one inch thick. After the paste has stood for a while turn it 
onto a slab and cut it into inch squares; dust them well with corn- 
starch or confectioner's sugar. As the paste is more or less cooked 
it will be more or less stiff. 

PEPPERMINT OR 

WINTERGREEN PATTIES Mrs. E. A. Thompson 

One pound confectioner's sugar; six large tablespoonfuls water; 
six drops oil of peppermint or wintergreen; a little bit of cream of 
tartar put into a cup with a bit of sugar and the oil. Boil until it 
ropes, then remove from fire and stir in the cream of tartar, oil and the 
sugar. 

CHOCOLATE PEPPERMINTS Mrs. A. H. Wagoner 

Take two pounds confectioner's sugar and add enough water to 
make it the right consistency to roll into balls. Flavor with pepper- 
mint and roll out on waxed paper with a rolling pin. Cut out the pep- 
permints. With water in the under part of the chafing dish melt half 
a pound of Baker's chocolate and dip the peppermint on the end of a 
fork. Set on waxed paper to harden. 

SEA FOAM 

Two cups light brown sugar; one-half cup water; boil together 
until a little dropped in cold water forms a soft ball. Remove from 
fire. Beat in a deep bowl the whites of two eggs to a froth, add candy 
syrup, one-half teaspoonful vanilla and beat in until it begins to stiffen. 
Drop with spoon on waxed paper and press on a nut meat. Will keep 
moist in a glass jar. 

DIVINITY FUDGE Mrs. A. Donald Campbell 

Whites of two eggs, well beaten ; two cups granulated sugar ; one- 
third cup Karo corn syrup boiled together with one-half cup hot water ; 
boil until syrup forms hard (not brittle) strands when dropped in cold 
water; one teaspoonful vanilla. Pour the boiling mixture over whites 
of eggs, beating constantly; beat mixture until pure white. Add nuts 
or cherries, etc., which should be cut up before cooking syrup. Turn 
entire mixture out on buttered platter; let stand an hour, or until 
hard enough to cut. 

184 



Candies 

nttiiiiiiiiiiiiiiitiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiitiiiifiiiiiiiiiiiitiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiuiiiiiiiiiiniiMiiiiiitiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiHiiiiiiiiiiHiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiitiiiiifiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiii^ 

DIVINITY CANDY 

Two and one-half cups granulated sugar ; one-half cup corn syrup ; 
one-half cup cold water; whites of two eggs beaten to a stiff froth. 
Boil the first three ingredients until a little dropped into cold water 
can be formed into a firm ball. When done pour over the eggs and 
beat until stiff, then add one cup walnut meats. Spread in a buttered 
pan and cut into squares. 

OCEAN FOAM 

One cup sugar ; one-half cup corn syrup ; one-half cup water. Boil 
mixture until hard when dropped in cold water. Add stiffly beaten 
whites of two eggs, beat until it stiffens and becomes foamy. Add one 
cup nuts and vanilla to flavor. Pour into buttered tin. 

PUDGES Emily L. Wegner 

Two cups granulated sugar; one cup milk; one-half teaspoonful 
butter; two squares Baker's bitter chocolate. Put on sugar and milk, 
let it come to a boil before adding butter and chocolate. Beat con- 
stantly. Cook from fifteen to twenty minutes. This may be varied by 
adding chopped nuts or grated cocoanut. 

PUDGE 

Boil together a pint of milk ; a cup of granulated sugar ; a cup of 
grated chocolate and butter the size of an egg. When a drop of the 
mixture hardens in cold water add a teaspoonful vanilla, beat until 
smooth and creamy ; spread in a buttered pan and cut into squares. 

CHOCOLATE FUDGE 

One cupful milk ; two squares or ounces of chocolate ; two cupfuls 
granulated sugar placed in granite sauce pan. Let chocolate syrup boil 
till it hardens, when a little can be dropped in cold water or on ice to 
see if it is done. Then stir in a heaping tablespoonful butter and pour 
the mixture at once on a well buttered tin. Nuts can be added to this 
if desired. 

CARAMEL FUDGE 

Two cups granulated cane sugar; three-fourths cup milk; one- 
half cup butter; one teaspoonful vanilla; one cup nuts. Place the 
butter, milk and one and one-half cups sugar in one pan, and let it 
boil. In another pan melt the half cup sugar, and when melted pour 
upon it the boiling mixture. Remove from fire and beat until it 
thickens ; add vanilla and nuts. Pour on buttered platter. 

PEANUT BUTTER FUDGE 

Two cups confectionery sugar; two tablespoonfuls peanut butter; 
one-half cup milk. When mixture starts to boil, stir constantly until 
it thickens. Pour into buttered tin. 



Candies 

iiiiiiiiiiiuiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiuiiiiuiuuiiuiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiuiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiu iiiimiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiimiiiiiiiiiiiiiiuimiu 

CREAM OF CARAMEL FUDGE 

Boil two and one-half cupfuls brown sugar, one cupful cream. 
When hard turn on a greased tin. 

MAPLE FUDGE 

Break into small pieces a pound of maple sugar and put it over 
the fire with a cupful of milk. Bring it to a boil, add a tablespoonful 
of butter and cook until a little dropped in cold water becomes brittle. 
Take from fire, stir until it begins to granulate a little about the sides 
of the pan, and then pour into a greased pan. Mark into squares with 
a knife. 

MAPLE SUGAR FUDGE 

Boil two and one-half cupfuls maple sugar, one cupful cream. 
When little hard turn on greased tin. 

COCOANUT FUDGE 

Boil two and one-half cupfuls white sugar, one cupful cream. Add 
one tablespoonful butter, and when hard pour on greased tin. 

CANDIED ORANGE PEEL Mrs. A. J. Langan 

Take nice thick orange peel, soak over night in salt water. In 
the morning take out peel, boil in fresh water until tender, then add 
sugar, pound for pound, boil until the peel is clear and thick. Seal in 
glass jars, and when wanted cut in long strips, roll in sugar and serve. 

ORANGE OR 

GRAPE FRUIT STRAWS Mrs. Harry Pagin, Valparaiso, Ind. 

Take peeling of two large oranges, or grape fruit, or both, and cut 
with scissors in narrow lengthwise strips. Cover with cold water, put 
on stove and boil twenty minutes. Pour off water. Cover with water 
and boil twenty minutes more. Pour off water. Cover with water and 
boil twenty minutes more. Pour off water and add one cup sugar and 
one-half cup of hot water. Let simmer until almost dry, taking care 
not to burn. Take from stove and roll, a few at a time, in granulated 
sugar. 

HONEY CANDY 

Four tablespoonfuls honey, one pint white sugar, water enough 
to dissolve sugar; boil until brittle when tried in water. When cool 
pull. 

BUTTER SCOTCH Mrs. R. A. Dandliker 

Two cups sugar; two tablespoonfuls vinegar; two tablespoonfuls 
water ; four tablespoonfuls molasses ; one-half cup butter. Boil about 
fifteen minutes, then add two teaspoonfuls vanilla. Cook till it hardens 
in water, do not stir. Pour into buttered pans. 

186 



Candies 

SlllllltllllllllfllltlllllllllillllllllllllllllllllllllltlllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllltllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllltilllilllllllllllllllJllIllllllflltlllllltlUtUUllllttUltllltUUUlIllIlllItllllttlllllllfU 

THREE MINUTE BUTTER-SCOTCH 

Use three-fourths cup sugar, one tablespoonful water, butter size 
of an egg, one-half tablespoonful vinegar. Boil until brittle; pour on 
buttered plates. 

WALNUT MOLASSES BALLS 

One cup New Orleans molasses; cream of tartar size of a pea; 
three cups white sugar ; one-half cup water. Boil mixture slowly until 
soft ball forms when tried in cold water. Add butter size of an egg 
and boil until brittle when tried in cold water. Add one-half teaspoon- 
ful soda and remove from fire. Spread three cups black walnut meats 
thickly on well buttered tin and pour candy over same. "When cool 
knead into balls. 

MOLASSES CANDY 

Put into a saucepan one cupful of brown sugar, two cupfuls of 
New Orleans molasses and a tablespoonful each of butter and vinegar. 
Mix them well and boil until it will harden when dropped in water. 
Then stir in a teaspoonful baking soda, which will whiten it, and turn 
it into a greased tin to cool ; when it can be handled, pull it until white 
and firm. Draw it into sticks and cut into inch lengths. 

MOLASSES KISSES 

One level cup sugar; two cups molasses; two level teaspoonfuls 
corn starch; one-eighth teaspoonful soda. Mix sugar and corn starch 
thoroughly and beat in molasses. When well blended heat slowly, 
stirring constantly. When mixture forms hard ball if dropped in cold 
water, remove from fire, add soda and pour into buttered pan. When 
cool, pull until straw colored, cut and wrap in waxed paper. 

CREAM TAFFY 

Two cups sugar; one cup water; two tablespoonfuls vinegar; one 
teaspoonful cream tartar. Cook until brittle; pour into buttered pan. 
Then cool enough to handle; pull until white. 

PEANUT CANDY 

Put into a saucepan three-fourths cup corn syrup, three-fourths 
cup sugar, a large piece of butter, and one and one-half tablespoonfuls 
of vinegar. Boil until a little dropped into cold water becomes brittle. 
Then add one pound salted peanuts. Spread into buttered pan and cut 
into squares or oblongs. 

STUFFED DATES 

Take some fondant, small pieces of walnuts, almonds, bits of 
date, a few raisins, a small piece of citron ; mix well ; if not wet enough 
when molded add a few drops of water and lemon juice. Take the 
seeds from the dates and fill with this mixture. Koll in granulated 
sugar. 

187 



Candies 

llillilltilllJillMllllIlllllllIllIlltllllllllillllilllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllflllllilllllllllllltllllllllltlllltllltllllllllllllllllllllillllltlllllltlllllllJIll 



OLD-FASHIONED TAFFY 

Put into a saucepan two and one-half cupfuls of sugar and one- 
half cupful of water. Stir until it is dissolved. Then wash the sides 
of the pan and let it boil without touching a few moments, and add a 
tablespoonful butter and let boil until it will crack when tested in cold 
water. Add a teaspoonful vanilla and turn in onto a tin to cool. Mark 
it off into squares before it becomes cold. 

PUFFED RICE CANDY Helen Collins 

One cup granulated sugar; one-fourth cup water; one-fourth cup 
molasses; one teaspoonful butter; one drop oil of peppermint. Boil 
sugar, water, molasses and butter until it forms a hard ball when 
dropped into cold water. Remove from fire, add peppermint, stir and 
pour over one package of puffed rice, stirring until rice is coated. 

PEANUT CANDY 

Fill a small square tin half an inch deep with shelled peanuts, leav- 
ing the skins on. Boil some sugar until done and pour it over the nuts, 
just covering them. Cut into squares before it becomes cold. 

PEPPERMINTS 

Two cups sugar; one-half cup water; one-half teaspoonful cream 
of tartar ; seven or eight drops of oil of peppermint. Boil until a drop 
of syrup on tip of fork looks like a fine hair. Remove from fire, add 
cream of tartar and peppermint, and stir until creamy. Drop on 
waxed paper. 

AFTER DINNER MINTS 

Two level cups sugar; one-fourth teaspoonful cream of tartar; 
one-half cup boiling water ; three drops peppermint. Boil sugar, water 
and cream tartar until dissolved. Let boil without stirring until it 
forms soft ball when dropped in cold water. Set aside to cool. When 
lukewarm add peppermint and beat until creamy. Drop from spoon 
on wax paper or marble slab. If preferred, use checkerberry or creme 
de menthe. 

POP CORN BALLS 

Twelve quarts all white grains pop corn, warm and pour over this 
in a large dishpan the following syrup while hot : Half cup molasses 
or corn syrup ; half cup sugar ; three tablespoonfuls water. Boil until 
it crisps in cold water. Stir with a spoon all the candy thoroughly 
through the corn. Butter fingers, then press with hands into balls. 



188 



Candies 

IllllllllllllllltllllltllflllllllllttllllllllllllllllllllllllllllltlllllllllllllllltlllllllllllllllllllllltllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllltlllllllllllllllllllltlUIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIllllllIIIIIIlIllIllIltlllllll 



189 



Candies 

ittiiitiiitiiiiiitiiiiitfitifitiitiiiitiiiittiiiiiifiiiiiiintiiiiiiiittiiiiifiiiiiiiiiiiiiitiiiiiiitiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiitiifiiiiitiiifiiiiittttiiiiiftiiiiitiiiiiiiiiiitiiiiiiiiiiiitiiiiKiifiifitiiitiiiniiititi 



190 



WEIGHTS AND MEASURES 



Ten eggs equal one pound. 

One quart of flour equals one pound. 

Two cupfuls of butter equal one pound. 

One generous pint of liquid equals one pound. 

Two cupfuls of granulated sugar equal one pound. 

Two heaping cupfuls of powdered sugar equal one pound. 

One pint finely chopped meat, packed solidly, equals one pound. 

Four saltspoonfuls equal one teaspoonful. 

Three teaspoonfuls equal one tablespoonful. 

Sixteen tablespoonfuls equal one cupful. 

Four tablespoonfuls salt equal one ounce. 

One and one-half tablespoonfuls granulated sugar equal one ounce. 

Two tablespoonfuls of flour equal one ounce. 

A piece of butter the size of an egg equals about one and one-half 
ounces. 

One pint of loaf sugar equals ten ounces. 

One pint of brown sugar equals twelve ounces. 

One pint of granulated sugar equals sixteen ounces. 

One pint of wheat flour equals nine ounces. 

One pint of corn meal equals eleven ounces. 

Use two teaspoonfuls of soda to one pint of sour milk. 

Use one teaspoonful of soda to one cupful of molasses. 

One-half teaspoonful cream of tartar with one teaspoonful baking 
soda equals two teaspoonfuls baking powder. 



191 



TIME REQUIRED 

For Cooking the Following Meats and Vegetables. 

Beef, sirloin, rare, per pound, eight to ten minutes. 
Beef, sirloin, well done, per pound, twelve to fifteen minutes. 
Chickens, three or four pounds weight, one to one and one-half 
hours. 

Duck, tame, from forty to sixty minutes. 

Lamb, well done, per pound, fifteen minutes. 

Pork, well done, per pound, thirty minutes. 

Turkey, ten pounds, three hours. 

Veal, well done, per pound, twenty minutes. 

Potatoes, boiled, thirty minutes. 

Potatoes, baked, forty-five minutes. 

Sweet potatoes, boiled, forty-five minutes. 

Sweet potatoes, baked, one hour. 

Squash, boiled, twenty-five minutes. 

Squash, baked, forty-five minutes. 

Green peas, boiled, twenty to forty minutes. 

String beans, one to two hours. 

Green corn, from twenty to thirty minutes. 

Asparagus, fifteen to thirty minutes. 

Spinach, one to two hours. 

Tomatoes, one hour. 

Cabbage, forty-five minutes to two hours. 

Cauliflower, one to two hours. 

Dandelions, two to three hours. 

Beet greens, one hour. 

Onions, one to two hours. 

Beets, one to five hours. 

Turnips, forty-five minutes to one hour. 

Parsnips, from one-half to one hour. 



192 



HOUSEHOLD HINTS 

When peeling onions, if you will hold the onions under the run- 
ning cold water, there will be no discomfort experienced. 

Put a thimble over the end of rods and you can easily run it 
through your curtains, or an old glove finger will answer the purpose 
if thimble is too large. 

To mark a hem in linen, remove thread from the machine and 
run the goods through the hemmer as though stitching; you will find 
a perfect hem turned down. 

For removing odor of onions from hands, use celery or powdered 
celery seed. 

A handful of salt rubbed around sink will help remove all grease 
and keep it sweet and clean. 

A tiny pinch of soda will sweeten cream slightly soured. 

To remove bread or cake from pans, apply wet cloth to bottom of 
pan. 

Tack a piece of asbestos on end of ironing board for iron stand. 

Burn a piece of camphor gum to rid house of mosquitoes. 

To break glass evenly, tie a string around the glass, saturated with 
kerosene, then fill with cold water as high as the string; set fire to 
the string, and glass will snap at point of string. 

If a silver spoon is placed in a jelly glass the boiling jelly can be 
poured in without the least danger of breaking the glass. 

To cream butter and sugar easily when butter is hard, warm the 
sugar slightly. 

For angel, sunshine and all sponge cakes, add the cream of tartar 
to the eggs when half beaten, and if soda is called for, add it to the 
flour. 

Lime water and linseed oil is an excellent application for burns. 

To caramelize sugar : Put in a smooth granite saucepan or omelet 
pan, place over hot part of stove and stir constantly until melted and 
of the color of maple syrup. Care must be taken to prevent sugar 
from adhering to sides of pan or spoon. 

To renovate food chopper and sharpen its knives, grind a piece 
of sand soap through it. 

Before using new tinware, if you will rub it well with lard and 
heat it thoroughly in oven, it will not rust. 

To remove paint from window pains, rub with baking soda. 

To remove match scratches from painted woodwork, rub with 
slice of lemon, then with whiting, and wash with soap and water. 

In making pancakes, two tablespoons of snow stirred in quickly 
is equal to one egg. 

Two apples placed in your cake box will keep the cake moist. 

If in cooking you have accidentally put too much salt in anything, 
a small amount of brown sugar will counteract it. 

193 




Sxchiwi/e </u/z&> 

220-iJT&war'£ J5lda. 
JOS W.StaloSt/ 



B. L. CHANDLER & CO. 
Hairdressers and Wigmakers 

Importers and Manufacturers of Hair Goods 

First Class Work Hairdressing Shampooing 

Scalp Treatment Facial Massage Manicuring 

Tel. Wentworth 3663 6314 Harvard Ave. 

(Directly Under "L" Station) 



Don't Worry, about t& Flavor or Color. 
£7ust Le/ore serving Gravies. Stews. Soups. Etc 
add a dash of* 

Kitchen bouquet 

$6u wflljfiha* t/tat it imparts a wonderfully 
richJ>rown color and delicious ^flavor and 
appeiixingr relish_tfiat can be obtained in 
710 ot/ier waif. 

The Palisade Manufacturing Co. 



writ! ran rntt Sanplc 



WEST MOBOKEN. 



ENGLEWOOD STATE BANK 

63rd Street and Yale Avenue 



OUR AIM 

To conduct a bank of the highest character in every respect. 

To take the greatest care in the protection of our depositors. 

To make the fullest possible response to all of the banking require- 
ments of our customers. 

To extend never-failing welcome and courtesy to all — men, women and 
children — who for any purpose enter our bank. 

Our banking office is a clean, comfortable and pleasant place to enter 
and transact business. 

We have thousands of satisfied customers and we invite other thou- 
sands. 

OFFICERS 

FRANK H. TINSLEY, President BRYAN G. TIGHE, Vice-President 
E. W. STANSBURY, Cashier E. E. HART, Assistant Cashier 

W. M. GOLDSBERRY, Assistant Cashier 



For GOOD Things to 

EAT 

Trade at the 

Metropolitan Grocery Co. 

63rd and Harvard Ave. 
Phone: Normal 6153 

THE JVHITE FRONT 

Grocery and Market 

Now Located Permanently 
Corner 63rd and Stewart Avenue 

Where you will always find 
THE BEST IN GROCERIES AND MEATS 

Telephone: Wentworth 582 

Our Place of Business 

Our Exclusive Styles 

Our Merchandising Methods 

The service rendered by intelligent 
sales people, are the topic of conver- 
sation where women are gathered 
together. 

Come and see our 

Ready to Wear 

Dresses, Suits and Coats 

Gordon-Torrance Company 

Third Floor, Tower Building 
Michigan Ave. and Madison Street 



USE 



Morton's Salt 



Norton? 

tf >tt RUNNING 

Salt 

'TBQURS 



it PDURs 



You will appreciate the 
additional savor Morton's 
Salt will add to your 
favorite recipe. 

Convenient 

Sanitary 

Economical 




Morton Salt Company 

Chicago 



'Wishers that Was. 



CENTRAL 

2692 




Vacuum Electric Washers 
Gas Heated 

lOtfTON IRONERS (Manges) 
1326 Stevens Bd% 17" State St 



Phones: Central 2690. 2692 

13 th Floor, Stevens' Building 



The "Easy" is a Double- 
Vacuum Gas Heated 
Electric Washer and is 
rightly named, for it is 

Easy to understand. 

Easy to operate. 

Easy to clean. 

Easy to move about. 

Easy on the clothes. 

You may "wash while 
you cook" 




Society Stationery 
of Every 
Description 



/ 



f 



« 



/A 






<& 



/ 47 



Phone 
Franklin 

562 



A • 



T^INTEJ^S 

Year Books 
Annual Reports 
Booklets 

and 

Announcements 



SERVICE and QUALITY 
Our Specialty 

rtiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiittitiiiiiiiifiiiiiiiiiitiiiiiitiiiiiiiitiiiiiiiitiiiiiiiifiiiiiiiiiiitiiiiiiiiiitiiiiiiiitiiiiittiiiiiiiiiiitiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiimiiiiiiiiiif 

172-174 NORTH La SALLE STREET 

CHICAGO 




PHONE CALUMET 3565 

ADAMS' LAUNDRY 

2331-2333 Indiana Ave. 

Catering to the Better 

Trade 

Hand Work Domestic Finish 

CHICAGO 



.Mil 

Print,-} *QucMf* 












UNIVERSfTY OF ILLINOIS-URBANA 




3 0112 083352242 



