<ir^:=^ 




DGlorL5$ 
-to 



Household Science 

Department 

I Univ. of Torontp 



THE JOURNAL 

OF 

HOME ECONOMICS 



PUBLISHED BY 
THE AMERICAN HOME ECONOMICS ASSOCIATION 



CXJMPLETE IN TWELVE NUMBERS 
VOL. XI, 1919 



BALTIMORE, MD. 
1919 



I 

J? 



!i AUG 1 y ]9i 




1101575 



VlL. XI, No. 1 jANtJARY, 1919 

THE 

Journal of Home Economics 

For those interested in Homemaking, Institution Management, 
and Educational Work in Home Economics 

Mrs. Altce '. Norton, Editor Keturah E. Baldwin, Business Editon 

Editorial Board 
Mrs. Mmy H. Abel C. F. Langworthy Ethelwyn Miller Ruth Wheeler Amy Daniels 

ErOficio Members —Edna N. White, President American Home Economics Association 
Elsie Tfonard, Chairman Institution Economics Section 
Katherine Blunt, Chairman Science Section 
Agnes E. Harris, Chairman Extension Education Section 
Grace Denny, Chairman Textile Section 

Collaborators— The Officers, Members of the Council, and Advisors 



CONTENTS 

Our Opportunity Edna N. White 1 

A Review of Soiie Recent Literature on Malnutritiox ix Children . . Lydia Roberts 5 

The Office of Home Economics C. F. Langworthy 13 

Welfare Work in a Mining Town Isabella Wilson 21 

The Cultural Value of Home Economics Lauretta Fancher 24 

Omicron Nu News 26 

For the Homemaker 

Making Children Worth While Alma L. Binzel 27 

Editorial 35 

Comment and Discussion 36 

The Question Box 37 

Books and Literature 39 

Books Received 41 

Pamphlets Received 41 

Bibliography of Home Economics 43 

News from the Field 45 

American Home Economics Association Meeting 45 



The JooftHAL op Home EroNOMics is published raontfily by the American Home Economics Association. 
$2.00 A YEAR. FOREIGN $2.35. CANADIAN $2.20. SINGLE COPIES 25 CENTS 

now TO REMIT. Remittances should be sent by Check. Express Order or Post.al Monev Order, payable to th« 
American Home Economics Association. Currenc> , unless mailed in a registered letter, is at the sender's risk. 

NOTICE. When payment is made by check no receipt wdl be sent unless requested. 

CHANGE IN ADDRESS. Notice of change in address sliould be sent Two Weeks before the date of issue on which 
the change is to take effect. The subscriber's Old Address should be clearly indicated in addition to the New Address. 

AMERICAN HOME ECONOMICS ASSOCIATION 1211 Cathedral St., Baltimore, Md. 

The Journal of Home Ecohomics is on sale at John Wanamaker's. Philadelphia: The Old Comer Book Store, Boston; 
A. C McCIurg's, Chicago: Baltimore News Company, Baltimore; Woodward and Lothrop, Washington 



"TT TE PLEDGE to our country our best effort to pre- 
y y vent waste and the selfish use of our food re- 
serves. We pledge our loyal cooperation in 
carrying out the conservation measures suggested by the 
Government. ----_-__ 

"And if economy sometimes grows irksome or if this 

service works unwelcome change in our manner of living, 

« 

we will think of those who have given their lives for their 
country and of those whose homes have been devastated. 
We will be glad to hear that we, too, can serve in satisfy- 
ing their hunger, in renewing their courage, and in re-estab- 
lishing their homes " __-._. 



THE 

Journal of Home Economics 

Vol. XI JANUARY, 1919 No. 1 

OUR OPPORTUNITY 

EDNA N. WHITE 
President of the American Home Economics Association 

In these days that have followed our wild celebration of the coming 
of peace we have begun to realize that the problems of reconstruction 
are, in many ways, more difficult to solve than those that arose during 
the conflict. The great educational movement in conservation devel- 
oped throughout the country an understanding and appreciation of our 
work in home economics which offers us a great opportunity for service 
and we shall have need of all our training and resources to meet the new 
situation. 

Conservation teaching was based on home economics principles, but 
just as they were developed and modified to meet the war crisis, so now 
they must be adapted and developed to meet the changed conditions 
of peace. The signing of the armistice inevitably brought a general re- 
laxation of effort, with a tendency to slip back into the old ruts; yet if 
we are to take advantage of our opportunity and make our contribution 
to the reconstruction program we must realize fully that this is not the 
time to relax our efforts. It is rather the time to consider what has 
been accomplished and to discuss how our program can be adapted and 
extended to make it of the greatest value in helping to make a new 
world. 

Our work, perhaps fortunately, is still in a formative stage, and it 
needs to be scrutinized to see whether or not the necessary fundamen- 
tals are taught, and taught to the best possible advantage. Home 
economics principles, too, need to be applied to many other things be- 
sides food. Its overwhelming importance in the war has made us forget 

1 



2 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [January 

sometimes that there are many other considerations and that these 
must now receive attention. 

Out of all the attention given to food, there has developed a different 
attitude that has been a great gain; a recognition that foods have definite 
bodily functions to perform, and that their selection is not a matter of 
purely individual taste. This changed attitude ought to help greatly 
in tlie teaching of the basic dietetic principles, but on the other hand we 
ought to be especially careful not to obscure fundamental facts by un- 
necessary detail and technical terms. It should be profitable to consider 
what facts are fundamental and how the}' may be clothed in simple 
terms. 

We shall surely never again over-emphasize preparation in comparison 
with selection, but we shall realize that both must be taught even to 
beginners. 

The work of the Food Administration has brought to our attention 
many trade practices, and our attitude toward commercial problems 
in general ought to be a more sympathetic and understanding one. 

The substitution of various types of food has taught us many valuable 
lessons regarding utilization of food materials and what is meant by 
real food thrift in studying how to prevent waste. Let us hope that it 
can never be said again that a "French family could live on what an 
American family wastes." We have not been free from blame in teach- 
ing extravagance in food and we need the point of view presented by 
Jane Addams, "Those of us who have hved among immigrants realize 
that there is highly developed among them a certain reverence for food. 
Food is the precious stuff men live by, that which is obtained only after 
long and toilsome labor; it is the cherished thing which the poor have 
seen come into their homes, little by httle and often not enough, 
since they were children, until to waste it has come to seem sinful and 
irreligious." 

We have learned some lessons regarding fuel — not so well, perhaps, 
as in the case of food, but still the matter of waste and wise use has 
been called to our attention. Let us develop this still further until 
civic consciousness is awakened regarding the \'icious practice preva- 
lent in many communities of dehberate waste of fuel because it is a nat- 
ural resource and can therefore be sold for a low price. The teaching 
of wise use and thrifty habits in the use of fuel should be as much a 
part of our work as food teaching. When the pubHc understands these 
principles the commercial exploitation so common before the war will 
not be permitted. 



1919] OUR OPPORTUNITY 3 

Our teaching regarding textiles and clothing has probably been less 
affected because there has been less propaganda, and therefore less at- 
tention has been given to it. Our future teaching however can scarcely 
fail to reflect our new attitude. Shall we ever again be willing to de- 
vote the major part of the time to the construction of new garments, 
failing to emphasize the principles of wise bujang, proper selection, 
remodeling, care, and repair? Questions of passing fashion in dress 
will ine\itably receive less attention and the application of art prin- 
ciples both to dress and housefurnishing will be recognized as necessary 
and fundamental. 

We have all probably felt that we taught the principles of bu\-ing 
and general expenditure fairly well, but I wonder if our teaching of 
sa\'ings and thrift will not receive a different emphasis because of the 
war sa\-ing program. The food expenditure studies which the gov- 
ernment found necessary may make the average householder more 
patient mth household accounts, since they were deemed so necessary 
in determining national policies. 

There has been little opportunity to teach much regarding the sa^^ng 
of time and labor; that is one of the phases that must now receive at- 
tention. There has been considerable misplaced emphasis on efficiency 
in industrial fields, but time and labor in household processes have been 
little studied. 

Out of the changed conditions which have developed in many house- 
holds ■will come the necessity for learning new ways of conser\'ing time 
and labor so that there may be opportimity to assume new duties and 
new obUgations. Because of the great increase in the number of women 
in industry, there is need for learning standards and the limits set by 
law for the labor of women and children. This is one of the problems 
that is especially troublesome in reconstruction, and our students should 
gather information so that they may form intelligent opinions regarding 
it. 

We have always taught some facts regarding sanitation and hygiene. 
The lessons of the war will enable us to drive them home with greater 
force. The fundamental necessity of teaching these facts about every 
day living ought to be more easily brought home to educators and made 
a part of every school curriculum. Again the necessity confronts us 
of making sure what the fundamentals are, and of expressing the facts 
in simple language. We must make an effort to extend this teaching 
beyond the classes of girls to whom it has been largley confined, and 
endeavor to reach all groups in the schools. 



4 THE jotTRNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [January 

The facts collected by the Children's Bureau regarding child conser- 
vation ought to form the basis for definite work along this line. Miss 
Ravenhill has been pointing out to us for some time that child care and 
development are neglected phases of our work. Let us see to it that 
we make a beginning at least in developing work along this line in our 
reconstruction. 

Last but not by any means least of all we must by this time have de- 
veloped a new sense of civic responsibility. We must see to it that our 
students feel a definite sense of responsibility to the community in every 
line. A poor milk or water supply, a neglected orphanage, an inefl&- 
cient board of health, bad industrial conditions — all are a part of their 
responsibility as citizens and teachers. 

In waging this war we have imposed heavy obligations on the coming 
generation. If our children are to accept their part and help us save 
that for which we have fought, they must be trained. 

The call for service is not less, but greater, tlian ever before. 



The American housewife has served well; she now has a more difficult 
task before her — one which will continue throughout the coming 
year. Until we have banished the specter of famine from the world's 
table we must not relax our efforts to save food. — United States Food 
Administration. 



1919] RECENT LITERATURE ON MALNUTRITION IN CHILDI^N 5 

A REVIEW OF SOME RECENT LITERATURE ON MALNU- 
TRITION IN CHILDREN 

LYDIA ROBERTS 

University of Chicago 

Malnutrition in cliildren has become a topic of widespread interest 
during the past year. It has occupied a prominent place in the dis- 
cussions at meetings of pediatricians;' articles concernmg it have ap- 
peared in medical journals, social service journals, popular magazines,- 
and newspapers; and a variety of agencies have been set at work to 
combat it. It seems worth while to sunmnarize from this mass of ma- 
terial what has been contributed to our knowledge of malnutrition in 
regard to the following points: 

Prevalence of Malnutrition. In an address before the New York 
Academy of Medicine in December, 1917, Dr. Chapin' quoted the re- 
sults of two studies which showed the condition in New York City. 
In one, made in 1916, 95,030 children were examined and graded by the 
Dunfermline scale. The results showed: Grade I, 30 per cent; Grade 
II, 59 per cent; Grade III, 8 per cent; Grade IV, 3 per cent. In other 
words only 30 per cent of the children were in really good physical con- 
dition, while 11 per cent were in a state of undernutrition. 

The second investigation was made by Frank Manny of New York. 
He examined all the children in two public schools — not the worst ones, 
by far — ^with the following result: Grade I, 21 per cent; Grade II, 42 
per cent; Grade III, 24 per cent; Grade IV, 12 per cent. This, as will 
be noted, reveals a still more serious condition than the first study, only 
21 per cent being in a good state of nutrition and 36 per cent badly 
imdemourished. 

One of the most recent investigations^ was made in March, 1918, by 
the Bureau of Child Hygiene of New York City. They made a survey 
of all the school children in the borough of Manhattan. 171,661 chil- 

' Report of the Annual Meeting of the American Pediatric Society. Arch. Fed., 25, 
1918, p. 32. 

*War Prices and the Undernourished Child. L. Oppen. Good Housekeeping, 67, 1918, 
p. 73. 

' National Danger of Defective Development of the Growing Child in Wartime. Chapin. 
(Discussion by others.) Arch. Fed., 35, 1918, p. 54. 

* Malnutrition of School Children. Weekly Bulletin of Dept. of Health. City of New 
York, 6, 1918, p. 75. 



6 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [January 

dren were examined and the following results were found: Grade I, 
29,781 or 17.3 per cent; Grade II, 104,908 or 61.1 per cent; Grade III, 
37,718 or 18.5 per cent; Grade IV, 5,284 or 3.1 per cent. The Bureau 
beheved that these figures could be safely assumed as applicable to the 
city as a whole. This being so, New York's 1,000,000 school children 
would be distributed as follows: Normal as regards nutrition, 173,000; 
passable, 611,000; seriously malnourished, 185,000; in ver>- bad con- 
dition. 31,000. 

With such conditions revealed — with over 200,000 malnourished chil- 
dren m their schools — is it any wonder that the New York pediatricians 
and child welfare agencies have become awake to the fact that it be- 
hooves them to do something about it? 

These studies, as it happens, are all for New York City. To what 
extent they are applicable to the country at large, we can only sur- 
mise; but we can probably safely conclude that they furnish abundant 
proof that the estimate so frequently made that 10 per cent of the chil- 
dren in our country are suffering from malnutrition is far too low. 

Methods of Determining Malnutrition. Scales for Grading. Height 
and Weight Standards. Any discussion of malnutrition naturally brings 
up the method of determinmg the state of nutrition, and includes both 
the scales for grading and height and weight standards. Some pedi- 
atricians make no attempt to classify grades of nutrition, being content 
to class all who fall a certain per cent below normal as malnourished. 
Emerson is of this number. He diagnoses any child as delicate, or 
malnourished, who falls 10 per cent below normal weight, for he says,^ 
"children do not become underweight to this degree except for adequate 
causes." In most cases, however, an attempt is made at further classi- 
fication. The Dunfermline scale — originated by Dr. McKenzie of 
Dunfermline, Scotland — was adopted by the Bureau of Child Welfare 
of New York City a few years back and is the one now used pretty gen- 
erally throughout the country. Manny^ describes the scale, its value, 
and the uniformity of grading secured even when used by different physi- 
cians. He considers the value of the scale lies in the fact that it makes 
grading easy, because in groups III and IV it names something definite 
to be done to the child, and in group I explicitly states that a child so 
graded is not merely excellent as compared with others of a group, but 

5 Food H.ibits of Delicate Children. Emerson. N. Y. Jour. Med., Feb. 24, 1917. 
'■ i\ Scale for Grading Nutrition. Manny. ScJiool and Society, 3, 1916, p. 125. 



1919] RECENT LITERATURE ON MALNUTRITION IN CHILDREN 7 

is one who would be considered excellent an\where. In a test applica- 
tion of this scale it was found that physicians agreed as well, or better, 
on the state of nutrition than they did on even such common defects as 
bad teeth, tonsils, and adenoids. In order to make certain that aU 
necessary factors are considered in the grading, Manny states the 
"aids to diagnosis" which are used in connection with the scale. 

If used as suggested by Mr. Manny, it would seem that the scale 
might be a valuable means of classification. It has, however, received 
much unfavorable criticism. Holt^ in referring to the scale spoke thus: 
"The Dunfermline scale should be mentioned, though I can mention it 
only to condemn it. Dr. Baker of the New York Health Department 
has had 170,000 children examined by this scale and reaches results 
that are quite at variance with what is true." Dr. Baker' reports this 
investigation made by Dr. Willis, Chief of the Division of School Medi- 
cal Inspection, and herself, in order to determine if there were any 
basis of error in the grading. She found that physicians in certain locali- 
ties had become so accustomed to malnutrition that they had come to 
regard it as a racial or local type, and had made, therefore, a relative 
grading only. Since they found no children belonging in group I, they 
had used the scale merely to show degrees of malnutrition. From this 
it would seem that the fault lies, not in the scale, but in the failure of the 
physicians to hold to the strict standard described by it, or else to 
their unfamiliarity with a physically superior child. Both these difficul- 
ties, it appears, might be overcome. 

Height and Weight Standards. There are a number of tables of the 
height and weight of normal children in use at the present time. The 
principal ones are described on the Weighing and Measuring card of the 
Children's Bureau. The one used by the Bureau itself was compiled 
from several of these. Concerning the relative value of these scales the 
Public Health Committee* of the New York Academy of Medicine says 
this: "The existing tables of the relation of height and weight to age are 
either obsolete, as is the Bowditch scale, or based on children of certain 
social groups such as Baldwin's study of pupils in private schools. 
The Boas scale is, for the time being, the most serviceable as it is a 
combination of several scales. It is based on a larger number of measure- 

' Standards for Growth and Nutrition of School Children. Holt. (Discussions.) Arch. 
Fed., 35, 1918, p. 339. 

'Malnutrition Among School Children. Pub. Health. Com., New York Academy of 
Medicine, Med. Rec., 93, p. 1211. 



8 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [January 

ments than any other scale and is more adapted to a cosmopolitan com- 
munity like New York City, for it takes account of various racial stocks." 
Holt' also speaks of the Bowditch scale as out of date because pre- 
pared twenty years ago, and the children of this generation, he says, 
are taller. Smith' speaks of using the Bowditch scale, but rather be- 
cause of the lack of a better one than because he believes it to be a 
really good guide. The consensus of opinion seems to be that there is 
need of a new scale better adapted to the present day American children 
than is any existing one. 

In connection T^dth the discussion of height and weight standards, 
there always arises the question as to how they shall be used, — whether 
to consider weight to age, height to age, weight to height, or all three of 
them. Holt' regards the weight to height relation as the only really 
important one, though even here considerable variation exists even in 
healthy children. The normal cur\'e, he very aptly says, is not a line 
but a zone and a wider zone than is usually thought. Height and weight 
growth are as a rule parallel in well fed children, but on insufficient 
food there is growth in height but not in weight. He regards a child 
as malnourished if 10 per cent below weight for height from six to ten 
years, and if 12 per cent below from eleven to sixteen years. The 
annual rate of increase however, he believes to be an even better guide. 
Emerson* also considers weight as more affected than height. Smith' 
believes that basing Judgment on comparison of weight to height alone 
is misleading, there being no guide to the degree of malnutrition if a 
child is under height for age. He finds children in his clinics can be 
made to gain in height as well as weight. 

Manny'" after a careful investigation of the three methods of deter- 
mining defective nutrition concludes that any adequate sj'stem must 
make use of the advantages of both weight relationships. Too close 
devotion to the weight-height basis allows many children underweight 
for age to pass as normal. He believes there is need of experimental 
work to develop a s}-stem which will utilize the advantages of both 
weight bases. 

Causes of Malnutrition. Not much that is new has been contributed 
recently concerning the specific causes of malnutrition. Emerson, 

•Methods of Conducting a Class for Undernourished Children. Chas. Hendee Smith. 
An.cr. Jour. Diseases Children, IS, 1918, p. 373. Also Arcli. Ped., 35, 1918, p. 427. 

'"A Comparison of Three Methods of Determining Defective Nutrition. Manny. 
Arch. Ped., 35, 1918, p. 88. 



1919] RECENT LITERATTJRE ON MALNUTRITION IN CHILDREN 9 

Smith, Badger, the Public Health Committee, and others have dis- 
cussed the subject and presented much interesting data. In the last 
analysis, however, all the causes given are included in Mrs. Brj'ant's" 
famihar classification. Recent study has, however, added consider- 
ably to our knowledge of what we may term the real or underlying 
causes of malnutrition. Various agencies have been trying to find the 
answer to the questions: Why are children insufficiently fed? Why do 
the}' have too little sleep? Why are bad teeth and other defects not 
attended to? The answer seems to be that while poverty is very often 
a real and very serious cause of malnutrition, yet ignorance and lack of 
parental control are even more frequently responsible. Children are 
insufficiently fed because parents are ignorant of what are proper foods, 
of the necessity of regular, unhurried meals, of the need of a good break- 
fast for a growing child, of the harmfulness of tea and coffee, and of the 
habit of eating candy and trash between meals. Greater than ignor- 
ance even in many cases is the lack of parental control. Even when the} 
know better a large mmiber of parents allow their children to eat when 
and what they like, and to choose their own time for going to bed. 
Ignorance fully as much as poverty, is hkewise to blame for much of the 
unhygienic living, and the same can be said of the lack of attention 
given teeth and other physical defects. "Malnutrition," says Dr. 
Kantor,'^ "is not merely a poverty problem, a food problem, or a medical 
problem, but involves the adjustment between the indi\ddual and his 
enxironment in the broadest sense and needs all agencies." 

AGENCLES FOR DEALING WITH MALNUTRITION 

/. Malnutrition Clinics. Foremost among the agencies now at work 
on the problem of undernutrition in children is the malnutrition clinic. 
Dr. Emerson^' as long ago as 1910 was conducting such a clinic in 
Boston, and more recently five of them have been started in New York 
City. These clinics are conducted at Bellevue Hospital by Dr. Chas. 
Hendee Smith, at Postgraduate Hospital by Dr. Morris Stark, at Cornell 
University clinic by Dr. Wilson, and at the A. I. C. P. of Brooklyn and 
the Bowling Green Neighborhood Association by Dr. Kantor. Smith,' 

" School Feeding. Bryant. Pp. 210-247. 

'= Experience With a Class in Malnutrition. Kantor. X. Y. Med. Jour., lOS, p. 241. 
" Class Method in Dietetic and Hygienic Treatment of Delicate Children. Emerson. 
Pediatrics, 22, 1910, p. 627. 



10 THE JOURX.AX OF HOME ECOXOiHCS [January 

Kantor.i- Emerson.^^ and Miss Uzzell" have all contributed somewhat 
detailed reports of the methods of conducting these clinics and of the re- 
sults obtained; and both I\Ir. IMannyi" and the PubKc Health Committee 
of New York Academy of Medicine** have summarized the t}-pe of work 
done and the results secured in a number of such clinics. Briefly, the 
conduct of a malnutrition cluiic is as follows : 

Groups of undera-eight children meet weekly, with a physician, to be 
weighed, medically examined, and given instruction in food values and 
hjgiene. Weight charts are kept and the children compete to see which 
can gain the most, or be first to reach the normal weight line. Social 
workers foUow cases to their homes to discover all the factors which 
keep the child from gaining and do all work necessary to bring about 
right Uving conditions. 

In spite of the many discouragements — for it often requires the sum 
of many visits and much teaching to cause the children to gain in 
weight, and some can not be made to gain at all — those who have worked 
in these nutrition classes are enthusiastic over the results. A recent 
editorial in the Journal of the American Medical Association^^ says this 
concerning them: ". . . . When conditions of feeding, sleeping, exer- 
cise, etc., are supervised, the growth of the majority of stunted children 
can be promoted with ahnost startling rapidity. The weight shows 
ahnost perpendicular advances as soon as a chance for normal growth 
is afforded."' 

The class method is economical of the time of all workers and the 
spirit of competition makes the rate of gain more rapid than under 
individual treatment. Smith,' Kantor," Emerson^' aU beheve that such 
clinics should be conducted not only in ever}- dispensary but also in 
connection with the pubHc schools. 

2. School Lunches. Another method of dealing with malnutrition is 
by means of the school lunch. This, though not a new method, has 
never been made as ^'ital a factor in health teaching as it could and 
should be. ]\Iiss Lucy ColHer'' has prepared an interesting report on 
an experiment carried on last whiter in New York City in which "a 

" A Demonstration in Health Education. Uzzell, SMnry, June 1,1918. 
1* Nutrition Clinics and Classes. Manny. Mod. Hasp., 10, 1918, p. 129. 
'^Medical Help in the Undernutrition of Cliildhood. Ed. Jour. Amer. Med. Assn., 
71, 1918, p. 974. 

" Malnutririon .\mong School Children. Emerson, .int. Sell. Hyg. .issn., 1917 p. 115. 
" Manuscript prepared by Miss Lucy Collier. 



19191 RECEXT LITERATURE ON MALNUTRITION IN CHILDREN 11 

new t}-pe of lunch" was "administered so as to teach the gospel of 
health." The work was done under the joint auspices of the Post- 
graduate Hospital, the New York Lunch Committee, and the Peoples' 
Institute. Twenty-five boys, chosen from a large number of under- 
weight children in a certain school volunteered as Food Scouts. They 
ate specially planned lunches for a period of ten weeks and made every 
effort to do their patriotic duty; i.e., to get themselves up to normal 
weight. They met with Dr. Stark every Saturday to be weighed and 
advised, and social workers gave home help as in the malnutrition cimics. 
The gains made by the boys were most encouraging, and in summing 
up the experiment Miss Collier says: "The experiment has shown that 
the school lunch can be administered so as to teach children and par- 
ents the relation of good food, good habits, and good health." 

3. Fresh Air Classes or Preventoriums. The fresh air class has been 
employed for a number of years for tuberculous children but of recent 
years it is being used for malnourished children as well. Dr. McCord'' 
of Albany describes such a school of 50 children in his city. No tuber- 
cular children are admitted to this school. With nourishing food, fresh 
air, hygienic living, and physical and mental work suited to their con- 
dition, it is needless to say that the gain of these children in all respects 
is usually most striking. 

The Public Health Committee^ report 75 of these schools in New York 
City, in which 1830 children are enrolled. Obviously this number of 
schools is far too small for the children in need of such treatment. 

4. The Children's Year Campaign. The Children's Bureau by its 
campaign for children of pre-school age has centered the attention of the 
entire country upon this "the neglected age." The Bureau itself 
through its weighing and measuring and through its conferences on 
child welfare has reached an enormous number of children. Greater 
even than its own work, however, will be that which, through its pub- 
licity campaign, it has roused states, cities, social organizations, and 
physicians to do. Some cities (as New York^") have instituted a house 
to house canvass to examine children for malnutrition, tonsils, ade- 
noids and other disorders. Treatment will be advised and an effort 
made to educate the public as to the importance of proper feeding and 
care during this important period of the child's life. 

" Nutrition of the School Child. Preventive Work for Albanj- Pub. Scliools. McCord. 
Am. Sch. Ilyg. Assn., 1917, p. 104. 

" President's Address. Jour. Amer. Med. Assn., 27, 1918. 



12 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [January 

Dr. Meigs^i in speaking of the result of the campaign thus far said 
that the number of cases of rickets and mahiutrition in the clinics of 
one city alone had doubled during a month — the increase being due to 
cases discovered in the weighing tests and sent to clinics for treatment. 

In addition to the agencies already described, there could be men- 
tioned a number of others either directly or indirectly attempting to 
lessen the appalling number of undernourished children.* Among these 
are the classes in cooking organized in the 59 Baby Health Stations of 
New York, the diet kitchens which have been estabhshed in the poor 
districts, and the fresh air camps where children can have a few weeks 
in the country or at the seashore. 

In summing up their report on malnutrition the Public Health Com- 
mittee* made seventeen recommendations applicable to all organizations 
in any way responsible for the child's welfare. These recommendations 
include a wide educational campaign on diet and hygiene, the extension 
of malnutrition clinics, an increase in the number of fresh air classes 
and summer camps — these latter to have better supervision in diet and 
sleep than heretofore — and the extension of school lunches with con- 
trol exercised in their sale so as to insure proper selection of food. The 
carrying out of these recommendations would mean the cooperation of 
schools, clinics, welfare agencies, and health authorities. It would 
demand, for the most part, not the establishment of new agencies and 
new lines of work, but merely the use of existing ones to the limits of 
their capability. Such a union of forces all working towards a common 
end could not fail to help solve to a considerable extent the problem of 
the undernourished child. 



"Buy what thou hast no need of, and ere long thou shalt sell thy 
necessaries." 



" The Children's Year Campaign. Grace L. Meigs. Jour. Amer. Med. Assn., 27, 1918, 
p. 243. 



1919] THE OFFICE OF HOME ECONOMICS 13 

THE OFFICE OF HOME ECONOMICS 

Some Results of Recent Work' 

c. f. langworthy 

Chief, Office of Home Economics, United Slates Department of Agricalture 

The work of the past year, and this means the fiscal year ending June 
30, 1918, has been influenced, in a large measure, by the war situation, 
particularly for the purpose of furnishing reliable data regarding the 
use of the available food supply in a rational and economical way and 
at the same time proxiding a diet which conforms, so far as it can, to 
general dietary preferences. Attention has also been paid to thrift in 
the use of clothing, household supplies, and household equipment, and 
plans have been made for developing this work extensively in the coming 
year. In addition the regular experimental and research work of the 
office has been continued and so shaped as to contribute to the war emer- 
gency situation. 

Cooperation with other bureaus and with other departments is a 
feature of the work of the Ofl[ice of Home Economics. Such relations 
in the Department of Agriculture have included work with the Bureau 
of Chemistry on the use of dried fruits, vegetables, and other products, 
and similar work with the Bureau of Animal Industry on the use of cot- 
tage cheese and other matters relating to the food value and uses of 
milk, and with the Bureau of Entomology with respiration calorimeter 
studies of the problems of the wintering of bees. Cooperative work 
with other departments has included the Department of Commerce, the 
Bureau of Education, the War Department, the Food Administration, 
and the Woman's Committee of the Council of National Defense. To 
ensure close relations with the Woman's Committee request was made 
for a special representative from the Department of Agriculture and 
Miss Helen W. Atwater of this office was appointed. 

Conferences, committee meetings, and more mformal discussions 
have characterized the cooperative work. Policies to be followed and 
lines of work to be undertaken have been thus determined or com- 
municated. 

' Presented at a meeting of the Science Section, Eleventh Annual Meeting of the Amer- 
ican Home Economics Association, Chicago, June, 1918. 



i4 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [January 

A good deal of special work has been undertaken, like that in cooper- 
ation with the Food Administration on emergency food preparation, 
like the studies of the digestibihty of bread from flours including differ- 
ent proportions of the wheat kernel, and the Dietary Survey in cooper- 
ation with the Bureau of Markets, requested by the Food Administra- 
tion. Cards, circulars, bulletins, and other published material have 
resulted from the cooperative work. 

With the Food Administration and the Bureau of Education a pam- 
phlet "Ten Lessons," was prepared and widely distributed. This sum- 
marized much information on food conser^^ation topics. To further 
conservation work a special series of food leaflets, brief and concise in 
form and nontechnical in character, has been prepared in cooperation 
with the Food Administration. These were planned as the result of a 
conference of home economics workers and leaders. They have been 
verv generally welcomed and have proved useful in extension work of the 
Department and other similar movements and have been used in homes 
and in nearly all Hues of food conservation work. The total number 
required to meet the requests for them has exceeded 21,575,000. Dr. 
Katharine Blunt had charge of this project and was assisted by Miss 
Florence Powdermaker and Miss Louise Prichett. 

Four special circulars, "Use Peanut Flour to Save Wheat;" "Use 
Barley to Save Wheat;" "Use Soy-bean Flour to Save Wheat, Meat, 
and Fat;" "Use Potatoes to Save Wheat," have also been pubhshed and 
a bread card giving general directions for using wheat substitutes in 
the making of similar dishes, also a card giving directions for making 
yeast-raised bread with large proportions of wheat substitutes. The 
preparation of Farmers' Bulletins and short summaries on food and other 
home economics topics has been continued. Though the editions have 
been large, the demand for this popular literature has exceeded the 
supply. 

The Office of Home Economics and the Bureau of Education also 
cooperated with the Food Administration in the preparation of a series 
of outlines for three courses of instruction in food conservation designed 
especially for women college students. This work was done under the 
direction of Dr. Blunt. Originally issued in multigraphed form this ma- 
terial has now been brought together in a book entitled "Food and the 
War." An abridgment entitled " Food Guide for War Service at Home" 
was also published. 



1919] THE OFFICE OF HOME ECONOMICS 15 

A series of lessons entitled "The Day's Food in War and Peace,"' 
which has recently been published, with suggestions for their effective 
use, represents cooperation between the Food Administration, the Wom- 
an's Committee of the Council of National Defense, and the Office of 
Home Economics. These lessons were edited by Miss Atwater and 
Mrs. Norton. 

One of the functions of the States Relations Service, of which the Office 
of Home Economics is a part, is to serve as a clearing house and central 
bureau for a number of state activities, particularly with reference to 
the work of the experiment stations and agricultural colleges. 

In this connection, the Office of Home Economics collected information 
chiefly from the Home Economics Departments of Agricultural Colleges 
regardmg the experimental and research work in home economics which 
is being carried on, in the belief tliat such information would help all 
to do more effective work. Replies to the questionnaire which was 
sent out were received from most of the institutions, and a digest of 
the data received was submitted at the Home Economics meeting pre- 
ceding the meeting of the Association of American Agricultural Colleges 
and Experiment Stations, Washington, November, 1917. As was to be 
expected, the work carried on in the majority of the laboratories had to 
do with food and its uses along war emergency lines. Immediate use 
was made of some of the information and it was requested that this 
collection of data be continued. 

To speak in greater detail of some of the work of the Office of Home 
Economics, studies of digestibility and food value which were carried 
on by Dr. A. D. Holmes in connection with the studies of the utili- 
zation of food in the body, have been numerous and have included 
a variety of foods. The results obtained both with mature and imma- 
ture dasheens grown under controlled conditions have shown that this 
starchy root is well assimilated, the digestibihty of the carbohydrate, 
the principal food constituent present, being 98 per cent. No physio- 
logical disturbances were noted when dasheens were eaten in quantity 
and apparently they are to be regarded as a good source of carbohy- 
drate. Results are reported in full in United States Department of 
Agriculture Bulletin No. 612, "The Digestibility of the Dasheen." 

Continuing previous studies of the thoroughness of digestion of edi- 
ible fats, the following coefficients of digestibihty were obtained with 
a variety of nut oils: Almond 97.1, black walnut 97.5, Brazil nut 96.3, 
butternut 95.4, English walnut 97.6, hickory nut 99.3, and pecan nut oil 



16 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [January 

96.8 per cent. In these digestion experiments the nut oils were well 
tolerated, although Enghsh walnut oil, when 70 grams were eaten daily, 
was found to be slightly laxative. Results are reported in full in United 
States Department of Agriculture Bulletin 630, "Studies on the Digest- 
ibility of Some Nut Oils." 

The study of fats and oils included a number obtained from seeds. 
The coelEcients of digestibihty obtained were for com oil 96.8, soy 
bean 97.5, sunflower-seed 96.5, Japanese mustard-seed 98.8, rapeseed 
96.7, and charlock-seed 98.9 per cent. The results obtained indicate 
that these seed oils, properly refined, may be regarded as satisfactory 
food fats. With the exception of Japanese mustard-seed oil no laxa- 
tive effect was noted. The results are reported in full in United States 
Department of Agriculture Bulletin No. 687, "The Digestibihty of 
Some Seed Oils." 

At the request of the Bureau of Fisheries the nutritive value of gray- 
fish, a food which promises to be of great importance, was studied. This 
fish compared favorably, as regards thoroughness of digestion, with 
Boston mackerel, butterfish, and sahnon (canned). Results are re- 
ported in full in United States Department of Agriculture Bulletin 
649, "Experiments on the Digestibihty of Fish." 

Studies of the digestibihty of flour made by grindmg soy-bean press 
cake and peanut press cake show that tliese products are well assimi- 
lated. Coefficients of digestibility of protein were in each case 85 
per cent, in round numbers. The results are reported in full in United 
States Department of Agriculture Bulletin No. 717, "Digestibihty of 
Protein Supphed by Soy-Bean and Peanut Press-Cake Flours." 

Studies on the digestibihty of wheat bran, imground, coarsely, and 
finely ground, eaten in the form of a flour-free bread, have also been 
made and the results have been prepared for publication. 

Digestion studies with corned seal meat and some miscellaneous tests 
have been made also but not yet reported on. 

In addition to this work a large number of digestion studies have 
been made and the relative food value studies of wheat flours repre- 
senting different percentages of milling in comparison with the flour 
fixed upon by the Food Administration as a standard (74 per cent of a 
90 per cent extraction). The data already accumulated are extensive 
and available for Food Administration uses as needed. It is expected 
that general conclusions, what the Food Administration had in mind 
when the work was requested, will be forthcoming. 



1919] THE OFFICE OF HOME ECONOMICS 17 

The experimental studies of energy expended in the performance of 
different household tasks, made with the respiration calorimeter, were 
continued, with Mr. H. G. Barott in charge of the respiration calorim- 
eter ]aborator>'. The results are in full accord with those previously 
obtained.- The work was so planned that it would not only supply 
data regarding the relative energy expenditure for different household 
tasks but also, when considered in connection with time studies of the 
housekeeper's day, a project on which Miss Ilena M. Bailey is engaged, 
provide more definite information than we now possess regarding the 
energy expenditure for household labor as a whole. 

In these studies the subject, Miss B. — 21 years old and 5 feet, 5 inches 
tall — carried on a number of tasks in the respiration calorimeter cham- 
ber, the energy expenditure for each task being measured in comparison 
with the energy output when at rest under conditions which were other- 
wise the same. The various tasks were carefully worked out as regards 
number and sequence of motions involved; and, in order that the tempo 
of the work might be uniform, were timed to the beat of a metronome. 
Each task was repeated over and over for two hours. To insure uni- 
formity the subject always entered the calorimeter at the same time 
(early in the forenoon), having had a simple breakfast (a cup of cocoa 
made with cream, one teaspoon sugar, and two teaspoons cocoa) and 
always wore the same clothing. 

A report of the experiments now being prepared for publication will 
show in detail the character of the results obtained. In general it may be 
said that in all the experiments the energy expenditure of the body when 
work was performed was greater than was the case in the tests where the 
subject sat in a chair at rest. The least increase (7 calories per hour) over 
the energy expenditure at rest was noted in tests in which the sub- 
ject was engaged in plain hand sewing (30 stitches per minute) . Simple 
tasks Uke crocheting, embroidering, darning hose, and knitting call for 
much the same energj' expenditure as plain sewing. The largest in- 
crease (49 calories per hour) over the energy expenditure at rest was 
noted in laundry work — washing towels which were rubbed 35 times 
per minute on the board. Practically the same increased energy ex- 
penditure (48 calories per hour) over the energy expenditure at rest was 
noted in sweeping a bare floor (38 strokes with the broom per minute). 

'Results not yet reported in full. Brief summaries are given in: Report of Director, 
Office Experiment Stations, 1914, p. 1415; Report of Director, Office Experiment Stations, 
1915, p. 18; Report of Director, Office Experiment Stations, 1916, p. 31. 



18 THE JOTIRNAX OF HOME ECONOMICS [January- 

Washing dishes and ironing requires less energy than these heavy 
tasks and more than the hght tasks referred to. The results, with re- 
spect to what may be considered heavy and light tasks, are in accord 
with those found in earher respiration calorimeter experiments, briefly 
summarized in a report which states that dish washing made greater 
demands on the body than sewing.' Another conclusion drawn from 
the earher experiments was also substantiated, namely, that the kind 
of equipment used is important, unsuitable equipment involving in- 
creased energy expenditure. 

The question naturally arises whether the results obtained with other 
subjects would be similar to those obtained with Miss B. It is planned 
to study this point further. It is interesting to note that in comparable 
tests the results of the later experiments are in agreement with those 
obtained in previous tests with other subjects but which have not yet 
been reported. 

The dietary survey project carried on in cooperation with the Bureau 
of Markets called for the collection of data from housekeepers, institu- 
tion managers, and others, blanks being furnished on which to record 
the data regarding the food consumed for a period of seven days togeth- 
er with food used, number of persons in family, general occupation and 
related data. The distribution of blanks was planned to take into ac- 
count urban and rural regions and variations in food habits and in fam- 
ily incomes and standards of hvLng. Boarding houses, college clubs, 
homes for children and for the aged, and other public institutions were 
included, food problems of groups larger than the family being very 
important in relation to the general food situation. In furthering the 
interests of this dietary project, home economics workers have rendered 
valuable assistance in distributing and collecting blanks, making stu- 
dies, and in other ways. The response from housekeepers and mana- 
gers of pubUc institutions has been very generous and to their willing- 
ness to help the success of the project is largely due. Over 1 ,000 dietary 
records have been received and in addition several hundred more 
have been definitely promised. Many housekeepers who have ahead}'' 
completed one study, and thus reahze the amount of work involved, 
have promised to make other studies at intervals during the period of 
the war. This again illustrates the fine spirit with which the women 
of the country respond to calls for patriotic service. 



'Report of Director, Office Experiment Stations, 1915, p. 18. 



1919] THE OFFICE OF HOME ECONOMICS 19 

Miss Vera Spinney and ^Miss Matilda McKeown shared the respon- 
sibility of the dietary project with Miss Lucy Gillett as consulting 
expert. It is planned to keep up with the accumulation of material 
by discussing the dietary surv^eys in groups of 100 and in the published 
reports to include important mineral constituents — calcium, phospho- 
rus, and iron, as well as protein and energy. A summary of the results 
obtained in pubUc institutions has been made by Miss McKeown^ and 
a full report is being prepared for pubHcation. 

In addition to a short account^ of the methods followed and the re- 
sults obtained in the study with a group of 116 families, Miss Spinney 
has prepared a report which discusses the results in full. The studies 
included were made at the beginning of the dietary survey, that is, 
shortly after the war emergency food situation developed, and, while 
they represent war conditions, may be assumed to reflect them less than 
will those received later which are now being prepared for pubhcation. 

The group of 116 famihes was subdivided for discussion according to 
occupation as follows : Mother Wage Earners ; Garment Workers ; Laborers ; 
Retired from Active Occupation; Clerks (office); Mechanics; Teachers; 
Professional Men; Engineers; Salesmen; Farmers. The average yearly 
income in the different groups, excepting the fanner group from which no 
data were obtained, was $1884, the range being from $640, with the mother 
wage-earner group, to $2527 for the salesman group. The average cost 
of food per man per day was 46 cents; the lowest cost, 32 cents, was 
noted in the mother wage-earner group ; and the highest cost per man 
per day, 56 cents, was in the professional men group. On an average the 
diet supplied 94 grams of protein, 1 19 grams of fat, and 445 grams of carbo- 
hydrate per man per day with an energy value of 3230 calories. The 
largest protein consumption was found in the garment makers group (109 
grams) and the mother wage-earner group (105 grams); the smallest 
(85 grams) in the professional engineer group. The largest amount 
of energy (3585 calories) was noted in the farmers group and the small- 
est (2895 calories per man per day) in the mother wage-earner group. 
Although the data summarized are not extended enough for fuial de- 
ductions, the studies seem to indicate that there was an increased con- 
sumption of sugar, fresh fruits and vegetables, and fats obtained from 

' Presented at the Institution Economics Section of the American Home Economics 
A.ssociation Meeting, Chicago, June, 1918. 

- Presented at the Science Section of the American Home Economics Association 
Meeting, Chicago, June, 1918. 



20 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [January 

vegetable sources, as compared with results obtained in previous dietarv' 
studies. From the results brought together in the report of this group 
there is no indication of undernourishment. 

An intensive study of methods and results of extension teaching in a 
county in Michigan has been made for the Ofl&ce of Extension Work, 
North and West. The deductions are of general as well as local interest. 
Miss Ilena M. Bailey had charge of this work. 

Extended experimental studies of domestic methods of canning have 
been continued and results of much value have been obtained. This 
work is in charge of Harold M. Lang. 

The war emergency food situation has meant greatly increased public 
interest in food preparation, meal planning, and dietetics. Much at- 
tention has been given to work along these lines and to the preparation 
of popular summaries, charts, and other illustrative material by Miss 
Caroline L. Hunt. Two popular bulletins have been prepared and await 
pubhcation, while some of the results have been summarized in the paper 
entitled "Changing a Peace-Time Ration for War Time."^ Chart 
material was prepared to meet emergency needs as a part of the Depart- 
ment's general plan for exhibits for various purposes. In general it may 
be said that, as occasion required, the data Miss Hunt has brought 
together have been made available for special war emergency needs 
and for the use of the extension offices of the States Relations Service. 

An important part of the year's work has been the equipment and 
operation of a laboratory kitchen where work has been carried on to 
meet the needs of the emergency food situation as well as general needs. 
Miss Jean MacKinnon was m charge of this work. A demonstration 
kitchen laboratory for use in cooperation with the OfGce of Extension 
Work in the South and the Ofl&ce of Extension Work in the North and 
West, of the States Relations Service, extends the usefulness of the lab- 
oratory kitchen project, and this whole Kne of work is being further 
developed. Cooperation with the Food Administration has been an 
important feature of it. 

The Office of Home Economics, like other government agencies, 
reaches the pubhc not only through its publications but also by corre- 
spondence, conferences, and in similar ways. This feature of its work 
has, grown extensivel)' and represents what is probably one of its chief 
contributions to the war emergency situation because in this way it 
secures direct contact with the individual worker, a contact which the 
office feels is fully as helpful to itself as it can possibly be to others. 

^Jotir. Home Economics, 10 (1918), No. 8, pp. 371-374. 



1919] WELFARE WORK IN A MINING TOWN 21 

WELFARE WORK IX A MINING TOWN 

ISABELLA CHILTON WILSON 
Welfare Director, Logan Mining Company, Logan, W. Va. 

Earling is a mining town situated in a mountainous country where the 
valley is just wide enough for a railroad track, the county road, and a 
narrow string of houses. Of its 200 homes, three-fourths are on a slop- 
ing mountain side; twenty-five are down in the narrow valley, and 
twenty-five are in a little hollow which winds around one side of the 
mountain. The houses are four- and six-room frame buildings. The 
scenery of this portion of West Virginia has a natural rugged beauty 
that contrasts vividly with the ugliness of a new mining camp. 

Few of the houses were inviting in the sHghtest degree. The hillside 
on which most of them stood has a yellow clay soil, and, at the beginning 
of this work, there were neither trees nor flowers nor grass to make 
it less unsightly. Few people had made any attempt whatever at a 
garden. WTiat gardens there were had been fenced in by tree branches, 
chicken wire, or some other crude fencing material that added to the 
ugliness of the scene. The sun beat down all day on the yellow hillside, 
where piles of cans and ashes stood by every doorstep. Almost every 
family had a cow and two or three hogs that were running at large, 
adding to the confusion by rooting among the cans and ashes. Every 
house had a dog or two. Flies were everywhere, and no one had screens. 

To reconstruct this town on sanitary lines was the problem of the 
Welfare Department of the Logan Mining Company, and this was to be 
done in response to the desire of the people, going no faster than they 
wished, and than their help and cooperation could be counted on. It 
would have been much easier to have given the town a thorough clean- 
ing and to have made cleanliness compulsory; but we believed that the 
voluntary method would give better returns in the long run. 

The miner has on an average a family of eight. If he is thrifty he 
has a better chance than many other wage earners to raise his scale of 
living. Many miners made $250.00 per month during the war, yet as a 
class they were not saving money, though as an expression of patriotism 
rather than of thrift they subscribed well to the Liberty Loans, and 
bought War Savings Stamps. If a man can be persuaded to save, 
the chances are ten to one that his living conditions will improve; his 
family will be better kept; and his home become neater and cleaner. 



22 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [January 

The mmer and his family are as a rule of a suspicious disposition, due 
to lack of education and to the fact that so many of them have been 
swindled by various agents. 

WTien our welfare work began in June, 1917, it was an unprece- 
dented departure from any former experience of the miners, and our 
first work was to get them to trust us, and to gain their cooperation. 

The beginning was with a class in cooking, meeting each Monday 
afternoon at one o'clock. We placed a very simple equipment in the 
school house, and taught plain cooking to a class of fifteen girls. We 
had picnics two or three times that siunmer and continued the work in 
cooking through the school term. 

The next step was canning demonstrations given to the women; then 
came weekly \dsits to the homes. We explained very carefully to the 
women that the Mining Company wanted to help them have better homes 
and that if they would do their part, we would do ours. Garbage wag- 
ons were sent around each week to haul away cans and ashes. We had 
given the 25 best famihes garbage cans, arousing in the others the desire 
for them. They were told that they could have cans too if they would 
clean up their premises. They did this, and now every person has a 
garbage can, and complains bitterly if it is not emptied every week. 

In April "hogtight" fences were buUt around each house; the people 
were given eight varieties of hardy flower seeds, a bulb of canna, and a 
root of dahlia. Each family was also given grass seed to sow his lawn and 
enough fertilizer to give the grass a good start. To encourage the people, 
who had hved so long without yard or garden, to do the needed work, the 
Mining Company offered a first prize of $15.00 for the best yard, and a 
first prize of $15.00 for the best garden, and a second prize of $10.00 for 
each. Much to our encouragement almost every family tried to improve 
their surroundings so that by the first of June the hillside was covered 
with a mantle of green. By July the yards were Ln their prime. Cannas, 
marigolds, snap dragons, nasturtiums, cosmos, sunflowers, castor beans 
dahlias, petunias, were all in bloom and the yellow hill was buried under 
them. 

Each family raised a war garden. Some of the men went back in the 
mountain and "scrubbed out" two and three acre patches. Every week 
the gardens were inspected and the people were told what preventives 
to use for chewing and sucking insects and for fungous and bacterial 
plant diseases. 



1919] -nrELFARE WORK IN A MINING TOWN 23 

In November a Norway maple and a poplar tree were planted in each 
front yard. Later cherry and apple trees will be planted in the back 
yards. 

A playground was put in at the school house in the fall, since the chil- 
dren had very Uttle opportunit}^ for exercise. Here on the giant stride, 
the swings, the slicky shde, the see saws, they develop their muscles 
while enjoying their play, and grow towards strong manhood and 
womanhood. 

A course in domestic art and domestic science is given credit at the 
district high school, and the boys and girls are urged to go to high 
school. 

The school term was only seven months; it was extended to nine. A 
Red Cross Chapter was formed among the women, meeting in a vacant 
room over the store building. A sewing machine and a table have been 
donated to them. 

Earling is now a clean, self respecting little town with many pleasant 
homes. All that has been done has been done voluntarily and step 
by step as the people were ready for it, and as they wanted it. 

We believe that this year's experience has shown that it is better to 
work with the people, educating them to what we want, rather than 
forcing them beyond their desires. They are better content to advance 
step by step than by one big jump. We have been keeping our labor 
during war time by this welfare work, and we expect that, with the com- 
ing of peace, results will be even greater than now. The self respecting 
working man will desire to raise his family in wholesome surroundings. 



"A penny saved is a twopence clear, 
A pin a day is a groat a year." 



24 THE JOT7RNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [Januarj' 

THE CULTUR.AL V.\LUE OF HO:\IE ECONOMICS 

LAURETTA FANCHER 
Former Head of the Department of Home Economics, Whit'ivorth College, Spokane. 

The other day, I looked up the meaning of the word "cultural." I 
was weary of hearing about the "culture" which a college course gives, 
that is, every course except the home economics course. As for that," 
the chemistry professor remarked patronizingly, "it is most conve- 
nient to have, but its cultural value is nothing." And so I looked it up 
in the dictionar}-. WTiat is it — this elusive "culture?" 

This is what I found: the training, development, or strengthening of 
the powers, mental and physical, or the condition thus produced. The 
original meaning is of course, cultivation — the tilhng of the soil of the 
mind. When we speak of a cultured person, we mean one whose mind 
has been trained, yet cultural education has come to mean ancient lan- 
guages and dead philosophies as if that were the only method of drilling 
the mind. 

It is interesting to note that the cultural education of today was the 
practical education of a former period. The one time business man 
was required to understand Latin to carry on his work as apothecary, 
or clerk, or scribe. Yet after shorter methods had been introduced and 
the t>'pewriter succeeded the penman, the old form of education lingered. 

Without denying that the study of Latin is good mental discipHne, are 
there not other subjects which give a similar training and in addition 
are of practical value? 

The college course in home economics must include the subjects with 
which every person should be familiar and which each course requires — ■ 
English, history, and modern languages — and it should leave room for 
electives; but taking the special subjects — how do they develop the 
powers of the mind and body? — for we must remember that our defi- 
nition speaks of "mental and physical powers." 

WTien I first took lessons in cookery, I was afraid to separate the yolk 
of an egg from the white. We worked in pairs and I was alwaj-s very 
busy gathering materials, washing dishes, anything but the constructive 
work. One day my partner was absent. I made a cake which was a 
success. From that day I gained confidence in my own ability to ac- 
comphsh results. I grew daily in self reliance and the power of initi- 
ative. I have seen the same thing work out in students, seen girls dc- 



1919] cultilRal value of home economics 25 

velop and grow mentally through the study of cookery. Girls, perhaps 
fine Latin students, would come into my classes shrinking from meas- 
uring a half teaspoon, afraid to take one step without help, and have 
gone out at the end of one year capable and self reliant. Responsibility 
means growth here as elsewhere. The correlation of hand and brain is 
taught in every branch of the course, thus developing thought followed 
by action — the physical and mental work together, side by side. Noth- 
ing produces accuracy more effectually than the lessons in mechanical 
drawing, where every dot must be measured and a si.xteenth of an inch 
becomes unhmited space. At the same time that the girl is learning to 
draw house plans, she is building accuracy into her mental house. If she 
can draw clear cut plans, she will tliink clearly, she will not exaggerate. 
The same, in lesser degree is taught in sewing. Wlien a girl learns to 
make a straight, neatly finished seam on a piece of crepe de chene she 
has learned not merely how to make a fell seam — that is the least of it — 
she has made a path for accuracy and neatness in her brain cells. 

The imagination is developed in a dozen ways — planning menus, 
color schemes, flavor combinations, dresses, hats. Reason, of course, 
is continually brought into play in such simple examples as planning 
costs, but a stiff course in dietetics will bring it into full play. Judg- 
ment is acquired in every subject in the course. Take the compara- 
tively simple matter of making a cake — the consistency of the batter, 
the heat of the oven, tests of baking — all bring Judgment into play. 
This is but one example. Otixers may be found in the testing of textiles 
and of food products and many other processes. Attention and delib- 
eration are fostered in the theoretical side — in classes of textiles, or food 
study, as in other textbook classes. 

"I do not expect my pupils to remember the subject matter taught 
them," remarked one teacher. "It is the mental drill that counts." 

I do expect my pupils to remember what I have taught them — they 
are vital things which the girls will need to use in life, but they have 
also been given the mental drill — the culture of the mind. And therein 
lies the wonderful efi'ectiveness of home economics, in the combination 
of practical and cultural. 



OMICRON NU NEWS 

Through the courtesy of the Journal of Home Economics, Omicron 
Nu has been given a page for printing news and ideas of interest to the 
various chapters and to home economics people in general. To enable 
us to make best use of this space it will be necessary for each chapter 
through its editor to send me items and information suitable for the 
page. Copy should be in by the fifteenth of each montlr so tliat it 
may be edited and sent to the Journal for publication. 

Elizabeth Ingersoll, Acting Editor, 

Iowa State College, Ames, Iowa. 

Alpha Chapter. At Michigan Agricultural College student girls un- 
der the direction of the Home Economics faculty, helped to prepare 
and serve meals to the soldiers who were ill in camp there. This work 
was described in the December Journal, page 552. 

Zeta Chapter. At Nebraska University the captain of the companies 
stationed there, sent an "S. O. S." call to the Home Economics De- 
partment to feed tlie two hundred and fifty sick men in his charge. By 
the next day these men were being served special diets prepared in the 
model practice kitchen of the University. 

Iota Chapter. At Kansas University a cafeteria has been opened 
under the direction of the Home Economics Department. Miss Ruth 
Stevenson, an Omicron Nu girl, is in direct charge and has as her as- 
sistants students of the institutional cooking class, the special problems 
class, and three paid helpers. The working plan is so divided that 
each student has a definite responsibility and has a chance to do each 
phase of the work. 

The girls in charge of the counter and floor wear vv^hite Hoover uni- 
forms. The object of the work is not to make money but to give the 
public wholesome, home cooked food at a reasonable price and at the 
same time offer practical experience to the home economics students in 
institutional cooking and management. 

The chapter is taking up child welfare work in Lawrence, Kansas. 

Eta Chapter at Wisconsin University has established an Omicron Nu 
Scholarship fund with which they hope to be of assistance to some de- 
serving home economics student. 

Epsilon Chapter at Urbana, Ilhnois, has adopted a French war orphan. 



FOR THE HOMEMAKER 

MAKING CHILDREN WORTH WHILEi 

ALMA L. BINZEL 

Director of Kindergarten, Northrop Collegiate School, and Lecturer in Child Study and 
Education 

WTien Ellen Key wrote a book and named it "The Century of the 
Child," neither she nor her readers foresaw the tragic event that would 
hasten the higher evaluation of child-life, an evaluation that expressed 
itself in increased activity in campaigns for "The Better Babies Move- 
ment," "Sa^ing the Seventh Baby," and " Child- Welfare Weeks." 
The program for the Children's Year included all the younger children 
of every state. Will it leave parents on no higher level than is indicated 
by the composition of a Springfield boy who wrote as follows on The 
Children's Year: "It is everybody's duty to have a baby this year and 
to save it." Or, will The Children's Year lift parents to an under- 
standing of what babies are to be saved for? For what are children to 
be kept well? 

The conservation of life in the physical aspects of keeping many more 
babies ahve and keeping many more of them well is naturally and neces- 
sarily a first aim in the various child saving movements. Both of these 
aspects have met with some ridicule, some opposition, and some skepti- 
cism. The fact that some babies survive and thrive under the worst 
possible conditions while others languish and die under choice conditions 
gives to many a person ground for the contention that all the modem 
ideas about the rearing of children are unnecessary and often ineffective. 
Since they have individual cases in their own families, neighborhoods, 
and small circles to give as evidence, statistics, such as the Children's 
Bureau, the Baby Clinics and Hospitals have to offer, carry to them no 
conviction. 



' Presented at the Eleventh .-\nnual Meeting of the American Home Economics Associa- 
tion, Chicago, June, 1918. '^ Printed in part only. 

27 



28 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOirics [January 

Much that is unwise in the rearing of children is due to the indiffer- 
ence, the inertia and the lack of insight that arise from unpreparedness 
for the responsibility. Each generation of graduates from the eighth 
grade and high school courses in home economics should increase the 
number of homes in which babies and children will have better chances 
for survival and health. Many vision a time when the compulsory 
period of education shall embrace, for at least every girl, the basic 
h5^gienic, sanitary, and dietary principles and their application in con- 
crete situations. 

My hope is that as plans for courses in the ph3'sical care of children 
are defined and redefined another aspect will be taken into considera- 
tion, a new aim with the older campaigns, that of giving more children 
a good start socially and mentally. This means cooperation in the effort 
to have parents understand the fundamental psychological facts of child- 
life as well as its fundamental physiological ones from infancy upward. 

I have frequently tried to name the classes into which the mothers 
whom I have known may be grouped. At the bottom of the list are the 
slacker and the indifferent mothers. So far as their training of chil- 
dren is concerned, they are equally undesirable. The former is the one 
who deliberately refuses to respond to appeals which she sees her chil- 
dren making; the latter is the one who fails to respond, because she is 
blind to their appeals. Other interests claim her attention and time. 
Those v.'ho have read "The Poor Little Rich Girl," or seen it played, 
will recognize the extent of the blindness that may be induced by other 
interests. The mterests may be of the lighter, socially frothy type, the 
more serious ones of self-development, or the very responsible ones of 
war service. The effect upon the children of the resulting blindness is 
equally bad in each case. 

Immediately above these are the well-meanmg but ignorant and the 
imitative m.others. So far as their training of children is concerned 
there are possibilities. Their technique in the handling of their chil- 
dren can and wiU be improved by proper instruction and good example. 
I am quite certain that it was a well-meaning mother who tried to make 
her four and a half year old son obedient through the repeated use of 
the following method: That of holding baby sister over the banister of 
the third floor in the hotel which was temporarily their home and 
threatening to drop her in case son did not do as he was bidden. This 
mother was not ignorant in the ordmary sense, for she was the attractive 
wife of an Episcopal clergj-man. She was not a vicious woman; she was 



1919] ' MAKING CHILDREN WORTH AMilLE 29 

just unfortunately ignorant of the right ways of training her son. She 
set him in this instance a decidedly bad example in the way of deception, 
for she could never ha^•e fulfilled her threat if the boy had persisted in 
disobedience; in the way of suggesting unjust punishment to an inno- 
cent "bystander;" and in the way of suggesting a cruel act which, if 
imitated by the son in dealing out punishment to an offender, might 
result in death or injury of the offender. 

The best single illustration of the imitative mother I ever saw was 
she who trained her daughter to be absolutely dependent physically. 
Daughter came to kindergarten when she was five years old. She stood, 
literally waiting to be peeled out of her mittens, rubbers, wraps; she 
had none of the muscular development and coordinations that charac- 
terize the child who has been trained, educated to wait on herself. The 
motlier had been a nurser}- maid in one of the best families of the town ; 
she was "imitating" in her own home the ways of this other home. 
She had been a servant to other people's children; she became one to 
her o^^'n. 

Next to well-meaning and imitative should be placed the intuitive and 
the intelhgent mothers. The former, with little conscious eft'ort, secures 
what the latter arrives at from carefully thought out efforts. The 
intuitive mother is like the intuitive teacher, nurse, preacher, and 
doctor; we have heard them named the "born" teacher, nurse, preacher, 
and doctor. But notice the difference in the way society treats the 
"bom mother" and the "born teachers, nurses, preachers, and doctors." 
It allows the mother to go pretty much her own way in the entrance to 
and continuance of her work. Not so with the others. Of them so- 
ciety has required special preparation, ranging from one to eight or more 
years of work beyond the completion of the eighth grade. Is society 
wise in making no direct requirement for preparation on the part of 
the mother? 

It was an intuitive mother who sat next to me in a street car some 
months ago. A charming child of two and a half was on her lap. Re- 
calling the new toy in the paper sack, she asked for it. Pleasantl}^ but 
positively, the mother replied: "You may have the toy when we get to 
Aunt Katherine's. She has a yard large enough for the noise this toy 
will make. The street car is too small; there are people in it who would 
be disturbed." There was absolutely no protest on the part of the 
child. Her mother had made no special study of child-nature but as 
situations arose she sensed the principles involved and acted accordingly. 



30 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [January 

Compare her with the mother of that daughter who is the heroine of 
the following incident. A trip to town had been planned. It did not 
include daughter who wanted very much to go in order to talk some more 
to a new friend — a guest for the night at the country home. She said 
to him, "\^Tien I ask Mother to let me go she will say, 'No, not today.' 
Then I'll begin to tease and she'll say crossly, 'Oh, don't bother me. 
Run away and play.' Then I'll whine and she'll say, 'If you don't stop 
and go away, I'll punish you;' and then I'U beller and she'll say, 'Well 
if you must go, go. Put on your clothes and be ready.' " My friend 
was much interested in this clear exposition of the method of managing 
mother. He moved within earshot of the room in which the scene was to 
take place. It proceeded just as it was planned. Shortly after, this girl 
of ten was in his presence, tears stDl on her eyelashes and the question 
"Did you hear me?" on her lips. 

The inteUigent mothers are those who, recognizing the complexity of 
the problem of training children and their own limited knowledge for 
the solution of this problem, deUberately set themselves to work to 
acquire the necessary knowledge. 

She who wishes that "Babies came like breakfast food with directions 
for preparation and serving attached," voiced tlie yearning of countless 
mothers who are earnest and eager to know and do the right. Unfortu- 
nately, merchants and manufacturers do not include in their "demon- 
stration work" demonstrators who know child life in its impulsive and 
emotional, its intellectual and social aspects. Neither do most of our 
higher institutions of learning, responsible for courses for farmers and 
farmers' wives, for community weeks and the like, include work that will 
train people to be intelligent educators of their children as well as 
generous providers and efficient caretakers of them. 

What are the characteristics of the next group, the artist mothers? 
Exactly the characteristics that apply to all "artists" regardless of 
the medium in which they express themselves. Is it not true that the 
"artist painter" must mean well as he undertakes a new picture? Is it 
not true that he must have absorbed the best that other pictures embody? 
Is it not true that he must have a basic intuitive appreciation of color, 
action and composition? Is it not true that he must have an intelligent, 
clear understanding of the laws of his art and the materials he proposes 
to use? Is it not true that all these must be shot through with that 
emotional element of devotion which transforms the necessary labor and 
drudgery into joyful activity? 



1919] M.A.KING CHILDREN WORTH WTIILE 31 

So the artist mother is one who "means well" as she undertakes the 
training of a child. She is the one who has absorbed from hterature 
and life choice examples of the technique of handling children. She 
is the one who has an intuitive appreciation of finely developed child- 
nature wherever she sees it. She is the one who has clarified and in- 
tensified this appreciation by a study of the laws by which such devel- 
opment can be brought about in her own children. It is she whose 
radiance and joyousness are never greater in any activities than in 
those connected with the development of "human master-pieces" — her 
children. 

Of the two, the artist mother and the artist painter, the former 
has the more diflicult task. Her material is never the same. Forces 
from the inherited nature of the child, and other forces from the world 
outside mingle to comphcate her task. How very important, then, that 
she should have some guidance other than chance may bring her! 

How naturally and logically the child may be described as a bundle of 
hungers! The first of these, the hunger for physical comfort, when 
properly provided with food, sleep, quiet, and cleanliness, results in 
keeping the child alive and healthy. The second of these, the hunger 
for sensory and motor activity, should receive its satisfactions through 
opportunities for free movement of the limbs, for manipulating objects 
by the hands, for participation in dressing and undressing one's self, 
for more vigorous plays with toys and games, for participation in house- 
hold, gardening, and other manual activities. A third hunger goes by 
the name of curiosity. The child's countless questions, his inquisitive- 
ness, his efforts to take things apart, his jaunts away from home, his 
imitations of persons, animals, and things, are all so many evidences 
that nature means for him to know the world into which he has been 
■called. The fourth hunger is satisfied only as opportunities are pro\'ided 
to see beauty in color, form, and texture; to hear it in language, literature, 
and music, and to express it in various mediums. 

A fifth hunger is that of social participation. Man is so made that he 
seeks companionship with his kind for purposes of protection, defense, 
progress, and recreation. The motives that lead to such companion- 
ship, the emotional attitudes that are established through it, the tech- 
nique of adjustment to others that result from it are being analyzed 
today as never before. Socialization has long been the watchword of 
the progressive schools of our country. It must come to be understood 
>by parents as a process essential to successful rearing of children at 



32 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [January 

home. That it is not, is e\adenced by the countless misinterpretations of 
"teaching children to obey" which any one who is thoughtful sees in 
the homes of friends and acquaintances, in shops and hotels, on trains 
and steamships. One tragic illustration has already been cited. The 
following is equally so, but with a humorous halo of which the mother 
was quite unconscious. She said to little daughter. "Put on your 
sweater!" "No, I don't want to," was the response, whereupon' 
mother helped the child to obey (what?) by saying, "You know I rule 
you by love, not fear. Put on your sweater or you know what you'll 
get." 

Fully as prevalent as the mal-education in obedience to authority, 
is the mal-education involved in that form of amusing one's self, known 
as teasing. How often does one see a little child, irritated beyond his 
power of endurance by a fond father, uncle, or friend, try to defend 
him.self finally in a primitive, physical way by striking the offender, 
only to be unjustly reprimanded or punished by his own mother. Such 
a child, growing older, subjected to modified forms of teasing, is bound 
to have rebellious, angry habits of feeling established that are as much 
a handicap, as any physical lameness would be. There came to me, at 
the close of a lecture on teasing, a mother who said, "What you have 
said this m.orning in your analysis of teasing describes exactly the situa- 
tion in my home. My husband has tormented me to the verge of tears 
and rebellion countless times; my son of fourteen years is growing passion- 
ately resentful towards his father's and the older son's persistent teas- 
ing. Half of our family is prosaically truthful; the other half is given 
to fanciful and humorous exaggerations which spare no one's feelings. 
To the latter, teasing is a game in which they feel pleasure because they 
are the victors; they do not appreciate the misery of their victims. What 
shall I do?" Prescriptions for treatment of cases Hke these may be 
given as effectively as rules for giving more adequate food or recipes for 
better bread. 

The sixth hunger is that which has fostered the development of the 
religions of the world. The human mind can not help asking for the 
causes that lie behind the phenomena, so apparent to it. The trees 
bending and swaying in the wind lead to the question of cause of the 
blowing; the answer "wind" leads to a second — "What makes the wind 
blow?" The answer to that, by the average parent, is "God." My 
attention was attracted anew this spring to this problem of the religious 
training of children. The children (ranging in age from three to six) 



1919] MAKING CHILDREN WORTH ^^•HILE 33 

were enjoying with me the early spring flowers. To my question, "Who 
planted these tulips?" had come the answer, "Our gardener." To the 
next question, "\\Tio planted these hepaticas?" came, from a dozen lips, 
the word, " God." And I wondered why children were still being taught 
to name the work of nature undirected by man as God's handiwork in 
distinction from that done by nature as directed by man. 

Later we were discussing the possibihty of clear weather on the day 
for which we had an invitation to the country. I had said, "We will go 
on Thursday if it doesn't rain," whereupon a girl of six years said: "But, 
Miss Binzel, it won't rain Thursday. I shall pray to God tonight and 
tomorrow night for sunshine and it won't rain." Thursday came and 
with it torrents of water. Again I wondered why children were still 
being taught to pray for the things which involve the suspension of 
physical laws in order that personal desires may be fulfilled. I won- 
dered, too, how many grown-ups are arrested on that level of prayer 
which means the suspension of social and mental as well as physical 
laws. 

V A friend of mine has a niece whose prayer ended with, "God bless 
Father, God bless Aunt Margaret, God bless Aunt Lou. God bless me 
and make me a good girl." A few nights later, the prayer was increased 
by these appeals: "God make Rosie (the maid) a good Rosie. God 
make Teddy a good Teddy Bear." Is there danger that prayers so 
couched will direct thought and behavior towards non-responsibility for 
making ourselves good? 

The foregoing analysis of the child as a bundle of hungers, each with 
its manifestations which the parent can see, and which the parental 
mind should be trained to satisfy, is one of several that might be used 
by parents, old and young. 

That countless mothers are in need of guidance and that many 
are seeking it, is evident. Magazines are devoting more space than ever 
before to topics relating to child-nature; more and better books are 
being purchased and read; mothers, in larger numbers, are attending 
child-study and child-psychology courses; the kindergartner, by example 
and explanation, is showing what the possibilities of the early years of 
childhood are; but all these are insufficient for the task. Is not the 
time ripe for the assumption of more of the responsibility by the Home 
Economics Movement? Is it not logical that this movement should take 
over a great share of it? 



34 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [January 

This movement has been backed by federal authority and funds as 
no other aspect of woman's work has ever been. With the additional 
sanction and publicity of the Food Admmistration you have reached 
the more remote people of our country. Can you not extend your pro- 
gram to include more definitely the understanding of the needs of the 
child other than his physical ones? 

My plea today to this Association is that you make the wonderful 
service you have already rendered a greater service by the inclusion of 
courses in the understanding of child-life in its social, mental, and spir- 
itual aspects in the training of students in school, in the training of 
home economics teachers, in extension work in the home. Let us re- 
member that "to have babies and to save them"' is not enough; they 
must be trained to worthwhileness from infancy on. There ought to 
be many a university sufficiently awake to its opportunities and its 
duties to parenthood to build a structure dedicated to this work. Within 
its walls there should gather, during the school months, children rang- 
ing in age from a few months to three or four years. At other times 
this group would be augmented by those from six to ten or more years. 
Directing it would be a well trained woman who knows child needs 
from various angles; and associated with her those prepared to tend 
and to train, to care for and to educate these children. Students from 
kindergarten and home economics departments should do some student 
service there; parents will gather for training for duties which life 
thrusts upon them, but about which education thus far has left them 
singularly unenlightened. The writer saw the beginnings of such a 
group on the University of Chicago campus this summer. It was 
housed in an old g>Tnnasium building. The University carried no re- 
sponsibility in connection with it. The members of the faculty and 
the students ha\Tng children carried on the work m a cooperative way. 

The Universities of Washington and Utah are offering a one hour 
credit course in child study work for parents. The University of Minne- 
sota planned to give a course to home economics students but the neces- 
sary funds were not available. May the time be speeded when lab- 
oratories of infancy and childhood shall become as prominent on college 
and university campuses as are women's and men's buildings and 
libraries today. 



EDITORIAL 

Training for Motherhood. ^Frs. William Lowell Putnam, as Presi- 
dent of the American Association for the Study and Prevention of Infant 
Mortality, in her address at the annual meeting of the Association in 
Chicago, urged as vigorously as could one of our owti number the need 
of training girls in homemaking. She said: 

Into few businesses in life are people expected to enter with such a complete 
lack of trainingas that of motherhood — perhaps the most comphcated business 
that exists. Men have evolved colleges and elaborated them into universi- 
ties to give themselves the training which they need for their various forms of 
work, and women in entering the learned professions have very properly taken 
this education to fit themselves for their practice. Nurses are given a very 
careful and prolonged training — somewhat unduly prolonged for the benefit of 
the hospitals, perhaps, but an excellent training, fitted for its purpose. But 
when it comes to motherhood what training have we, we upon whom depends 
the whole future of those fives which come into being through us? Nothing 
at all. We do not even give our girls training for the common calling of 
homemaker, which happily falls to the lot of most women, for really a woman 
has to make a home wherever she is, and I have an idea that only a woman 

can make it I am not advocating doing away with the liigher 

education of women — far from it — I befieve in all the education we can get. 
I want not less but more of it, but if we must omit some things to make room 
for homemaking, I would cut out some of the things that are more remote 
from the children's daily life. I do not befieve, however, that anything essen- 
tial need be omitted I wish that during the coming year we 

might take up and push to a satisfactory conclusion this matter of the teaching 
of girls of all grades the principles of homemaking. 

It is worth while to know that work we have thought belonged par- 
ticularly to our own Association is so urgently pressed by another society 
whose aims are more specialized. On every side we meet the cry that 
if the children of the nation are to be properly born and nourished and 
trained the coming generation of mothers must enter upon their duties 
without the handicap of ignorance and inefficiency. 

As an Association that has the welfare of the home as its first concern 
we must rejoice whenever new forces are joined to our own. 



36 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [January 

The Journal's New Dress. The Journal, like other people, some- 
times finds a reason for appearing in a new gown. When an old friend, 
accustomed to wearing the same garb year after year, suddenly changes it, 
one does not always like it, and may even resent the innovation. Lest 
this should happen, though we hope you will like the new better than the 
old, may we explain, with two good reasons? 

Though the new cover was planned when the War Industries Board 
asked to have the weight of paper in all magazines reduced, and the 
lighter weight paper was not to be had in the color we were using, it 
was adopted partly because it costs a little less than the old — and the 
Journal has been using every effort to survive the high cost of living 
without raising its subscription price. 

For sometime the advertisers have been complaining that the Journal 
dress was too dark to show up well the ornaments they wished to place 
upon it. So as the Journal, like other magazines, is more or less de- 
pendent on their good will, it is happy to concede to their wishes, 
especially when it can do so to its own advantage. 



Erratum. In the last number of the Journal, page 566, line 18, 
" antineuritic" vitamine should read "antiscorbutic" vitamine. 



COMMENT AND DISCUSSION 

A HINT TO THE TEACHER OF COOKING 

One of the vexing problems of the teacher, especially in classes in the 
grades, is the getting all of the utensils back into the desks in order, 
without confusion and with as Uttle loss of time as possible. 

If you have not found a satisfactory plan, see whether this will help. 

Have black numbers stamped on the shelves and a corresponding 
number on the utensil that will be so placed as to cover the number on 
the shelf. Children will readily see where each article belongs, and 
will also detect at once any missing spoon or plate, since the number 
would remain uncovered. 

This simple scheme will help both the teacher and the student, and 
it can easily be worked out with little expense of money or energy. 

Helen C. Shaw, 
Champaign, III. 



1919] THE QUESTION BOX 37 

THE QUESTION BOX 

Question: During a course in home economics, taken some time ago, 
we were taught that the water in which potatoes were cooked should 
be discarded, because it contained some substance injurious to the 
system. Lately, recipes that call for "potato water" have been 
pubhshed from departments of home economics. Have recent experi- 
ments shown that the formerly held theory is untenable? 

Answer: The water in which potatoes are cooked contains no toxic 
substance. On the contrary, especially if the potatoes have been 
pared, it contains much valuable material, such as inorganic salts, 
soluble proteins and carbohydrates, and a considerable proportion of 
the water-soluble vitamine; it should not be discarded, especially during 
a period of food shortage when there is danger of an insufficient amount 
of these being present in the diet. 

References: The Biological Efficiency of the Potato Nitrogen. Cooper, 
L. F., and Rose, M. S. Jour. Biol. Chem., 30, 1917, 201. The Dietary 
Properties of the Potato. McCoIlum, E. V., Simmonds, N., and Parsons, 
N. T. Jour. Biol. Chem., 36, 1918, 197. 

Question: Is there any real reason why tea should not be taken with 
fish, more than with eggs, etc.? 

Afiswer: The very curious notion that tea and coffee should not be 
taken with certain types of foods, for example, fish, eggs, meat and 
milk, is undoubtedly the result of observations regarding the effect of 
tannic acid on proteins. Tannic acid precipitates proteins. Tea and 
coffee both contain tannic acid, therefore, it is reasoned, tea and coffee 
should not be taken with foods containing proteins, namely, fish, eggs, 
etc. Well made tea and coffee contain comparatively little tannic acid, 
in fact no more than is found in some natural foods; the amount is 
too little to interfere materially with digestion. But if one persists in 
drinking very strong and poorly made tea and coft'ee, it would probably 
be better to take these with some form of protein, and thus distribute 
the ill effects of the tannic acid; otherwise all the tannic acid will be 
free to act on the proteins of the gastric juice and thus interfere with 
its activity. 

Question: Does coffee form a chemical combination with the cream 
or milk added to it? Is there any real reason for the popular preference 
for pouring the hot coffee into the cream rather than vice versa? Is 
coffee into which milk has been cooked any more healthful than that 
made with water? Why? 



38 THE JOURNAL OF HOiiE ECONOMICS [January 

Answer: Coffee contains var\-ing amounts of tannic acid depending 
in part upon the coffee and in part upon the way in which the coffee is 
made. A strong coffee boiled for some time contains appreciable 
amounts of tannic acid. The addition of milk to this would form a chem- 
ical union between the proteins of the milk and the tannic acid, the 
amount depending upon the relation of the taimic acid and the milk. 
Under normal conditions the amount of tannic acid in coffee is compar- 
atively Httle. 

The reason for adding the coffee to the cream is that by so doing the 
cream or milk will be more evenly distributed. The agitation caused 
by pouring the coffee on the cream decreases the amount of stirring 
necessary. 

Coffee made with milk is not more healthful than coffee served with 
an equal amount of milk. A cup of coffee has no value as food aside 
from the cream or milk and sugar served with it. Coffee made with 
milk would consist very largely of milk. In France the same end is 
attained by serving cafe au lait. 

Question: It has been stated that cotton seed meal has been found to 
contain certain toxins. Is this true? What are they? Is there any 
danger in its use by children and pregnant women? If so, why? Please 
give an analysis of cotton seed with regard to its content of foodstuffs. 

Answer: It is still a disputed question whether the cotton seed kernel 
contains a toxic substance, or whether the failure of animals to grow 
on it is not due to the fact that the food is distasteful and too little is 
eaten. After the cotton seed had been heated with steam, under suit- 
able conditions, animals ate freely and grew normally. Similarly, an- 
imals fed cotton seed meal and cotton seed flour products, from which 
the oil has been largely removed by processes involving the use of a 
sufficient amount of heat, grew normally. Experiments with the meal 
and flour give no indication that either are injurious as human food, 
but these are still inconclusive. In the processes of refining, the toxic 
substances, or those substances which prevent rats from eating freely, 
may be removed from the cotton seed. The percentage composition of 
the cotton seed flour as given by Richardson and Green is: protein, 51.19; 
fat, 11.40; crude fiber,3.05; nitrogen-free extract, 22. 22; water, 6.14; ash, 6. 

References: Osborne and Mendel. Jour. Biol. Chem., 1917, 29, p. 289; 
Richardson and Green. Jour. Biol. Chem., 1916, 25, p. 307, and 1917, 
30, p. 243. 



BOOKS AND LITERATURE 

Any book or periodical mentioned in this department may be obtained through the 
Journal of Home Economics if the Journal price is listed. 



The Elements of the Science of Nutrition. 
By Graham Lusk. Third Edirion. 
Philadelphia and London: W. B. Saunders 
Co., 1917, pp. 641. S4.50 + postage for 
4 lbs. 

It is ver>- illuminating to compare the old 
and new editions of this book and to note 
thus the remarkable development of the 
subject of nutririon in the last eight years. 
This, the third edition (1917) has half 
again as many pages as the second (190S), 
twenty-one instead of fifteen chapters, and 
innumerable changes and additions in the 
treatment of almost every topic. "The 
aim of the book remains the same, — to 
levievf the scientific substratum upon which 
rests present-day knowledge of nutrition 
both in health and disease." 

The new discussions are too numerous to 
be listed. Especially valuable are those on 
energy requirement. They include the re- 
recent work in Boston on infants, and on 
adults during starvation and during various 
kinds of activity, and the work at the Rus- 
sell Sage Institute of Pathology at Bellevue 
Hospital on young boys and also on patients 
with typhoid, thyroid, or other diseases. 
DuBois' chart of the basal metabohsm of 
human males from birth to the eighty- 
fifth year is included with its striking 
emphasis on the high metabolism of adoles- 
cent boys. The varying energy require- 
ment of the human body from babyhood to 
old age has come to be capable of exact 
expression to a degree never before ap- 
proached. 

More light has also been thrown upon the 
chemical processes' within the body. This 



shows our "mental penetration into the 
biochemical reactions in the organism." 
Lusk can now discuss in surprising detail 
the intermediary metabolism of proteins, 
fats, and carbohydrates, and can give more 
or less definite information on the fate of 16 
individual amino acids — and the apparent 
comphcation here really leads to clearer 
knowledge and clearer sight of research 
still to be done. 

A new chapter, The Nutritive Value of 
Various Materials Used as Foods, takes up 
vitaraines briefly; a few pages on ash con- 
stituents is added to the chapter on A 
Norma! Diet; and considerable new work 
is introdu ed into that on Food Require- 
ment During the Period of Growth. The 
last chapter is on Food Economics. 

A surprising number of the questions 
propounded in the earlier editions are 
answered in this; for example, whether the 
energy evoked by the specific dynamic 
action of the food-stuffs can be utilized in 
the production of mechanical work. Since 
it cannot, Lusk draws the prompt conclu- 
sion that "a high protein dietary is th re- 
fore contraindicated in athletic contests, 
especially when the weather is hot and 
humid." 

The value of this book to workers in 
nutrition can hardly be overstated. For 
the young student only parts of it are 
simple enough; but for the more advanced 
classes and for research workers it gives a 
wealth of scientific information and stimu- 
lating discussion which can be found no- 
where else. 

Katharine Blunt, 
39 



40 



THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS 



[January 



Setting and Textiles. By Annabell 
Turner. New York: Appleton and 
Company, 1918, pp. 246. §1.75. By 
mail of the Journal, $1.88. 

This textbook is valuable because of its 
view point. Prepared for rural and grade 
teachers it may do much to formulate definite 
aims in clothing work and to dispel many 
ideas that the first eagerly received books so 
thoroughly established. 

The following are some specific statements 
illustrating the point of view from which the 
subject is treated. 

The pages on cliild psychology show the 
importance of the application of psychology 
to sewing problems, "The teacher who un- 
derstands the physical and mental develop- 
ment of the child will not require fine work 
before the fifth grade." 

Habit formation is one of the greatest 
concerns of the grade teacher. The author 
rightly places on the teacher the responsi- 
bility of the success or failure of each normal 
child in sewing. "Poor work means, in 
most cases, that the teacher has not taught 
the correct method and insisted on high 
standards or that the problems are too diffi- 
cult for the child." 

The value of group work is stated thus; 
"The constant making of things for them- 
selves has a tendency to make children sel- 
fish. Working together on things which 
may be used in the school or given to some 
worthy cause is splendid training for any 
child." The dressing of dolls for children's 
hospitals as suggested should, however, be 
questioned. Owing to their size, doll's 
clothes are too difficult for beginners to 
make. 

Hard and fast rules are often insisted on 
in sewng, without reason. Many teachers, 
for instance, require that the selvedge al- 
ways be removed irrespective of type of 
material, width of selvedge, or constructive 
process involved. "Experiment has shown 
that a good selvedge may often be used in 
making a neat flat finish." 

While habit formation, not speed, is the 
first aim in beginning sewing, the desire to 
make legitimate short cuts should always be 



encouraged. "Much time is wasted by 
basting when pinning would be sufficient." 
Yet "When teaching beginners it is well to 
have them baste, since the practice in spacing 
is excellent training." It should also be added 
that the long and short basting affords an 
opportunity for the analysis of the r unni ng 
stitch wliich is at the verj' basis of proper 
manipulation in most constructive processes. 

The Chapter, "Use and Care of the Sew- 
ing Machine," includes many points of value 
which are not included in the textbooks on 
the market and makes hand sewing second- 
ary to machine sewing. "Sufficient hand- 
work may be given in connection with the 
machine garments to afford the practice 
which will give the necessarj- skill in hand 
sewing. It is reasonable to teach the girls 
while in school the methods which they 
must and should use later on. Most of them 
will be busy housekeepers. It therefore 
seems unfair to require hours and hours to be 
spent sewing up long seams by hand. If 
you cannot persuade the school board to buy 
a machine, you might borrow or rent one 
the first year until you can demonstrate 
that the results warrant the expenditure. If 
you cannot buy, beg, or borrow a machine, 
allow the children to stitch the long seams 
at home." 

Unlike most books on sewing, this one 
gives special attention to darning and patch- 
ing. While the author opposes sampler 
work, patching is first done on practice 
material in order to keep the problem uni- 
form. Pupils are then to be encouraged to 
mend their own worn garments and bring 
them to the teacher for inspection and sug- 
gestions. "In many cases mending and 
darning can be done on the sewing ma- 
chine and while teaching other methods we 
must also include this as a time saver." 

This idea of saving time is also dwelt on 
at length in the chapter on "Laundry Prob- 
lems." It is "easy on many farms to make 
use of the gasoline engine in running a wash- 
ing machine, wringer, and mangle with just 
as great saving to the housewife as to the 
farmer when it pumps water for the stock or 
grinds feed." 



1919] BOOKS AND LITERATURE 41 

Sometimes one questions why the author How many children wear this tj-pe? Then, 
does not always give the correct method of too, under Hygiene of Clothing this state- 
work, if this book is to help teachers, instead ment is made, "Children's clothing should 
of simply stating that the "point must be hang from the shoulders." Is the flannel 
carefully watched to avoid the formation of a petticoat, mentioned above, consistent with 
bad habit." " Knots are used only when the last statement? 

they can be concealed," is another point However, since the main value of the book 

open to question. Give this direction to is the point of view rather than suggested 

children and everywhere in seams, hems, projects, the application of principles can be 

and bands huge boulders of various sizes worked out by individual teachers accord- 

and shapes will be anything but concealed. ing to their particular needs. 

For one project directions are given for a Lillis Knappenberger, 

flannel petticoat, with a full skirt on a band. Iowa State College. 



BOOKS RECEIVED 

The Business of Ike Household. C.W. Taber. (Home Manuals. Edited by B. R. Andrews.) 

Philadelphia: J. B. Lippincott Company, 1918, pp. 438. S2.00. 
Canumflage Cookery. Helen Watkeys Moore. New York: Duflield and Company. 1918, 

pp. 106. SI. 00. 
The Efect of Diet on Endurance. Irving Fisher. New Haven: Yale University Press, 1918, 

pp. 55. S0.60. 
Home and Community Hygiene. Jean Broadhurst. (Home Manuals. Edited by B. R. 

.Andrews.) Philadelphia: J. B. Lippincott Company, 1918, pp. 428. $2.00. 
More Recipes for Fifty. Frances Lowe Smith. Boston: Whitcomb and Barrows, 1918, pp. 

225. SI.50. 
The Newer Knowledge of Nutrition. E. V. McCoUum. New York: The Macmillan Com- 
pany, 1918, pp. 199. SI. 50. 
The Study of Fabrics. .■Vnnabell Turner. New York: D. Appleton and Company, 1918, pp. 

206. SI. 75. 



PAMPHLETS RECEIVED 

Issued by the U. S. Department of Labor, Children's Bureau: 

Infant Mortality. Estelle B. Hunter. Infant Mortality Series No. 7, Bureau Publication 
No. 29. 

Juvenile Delinquency in Rural New York. Kate Holladay Claghom. Dependent, Defec- 
tive, and Delinquent Classes Series No. 4, Bureau Publication No. 32. 

Scholarships for Children. Children's Year Leaflet No. 9, Bureau Publication No. 51. 

Suggestions to Local Committees for the Back-lo-School Drive. Children's Year Leaflet No. 8, 
Bureau Pubhcation No. 50. 
Issued by the U. S. Department of .Agriculture: 

A Preliminary Study of the Bleaching of Oats with Sulphur Dioxid. George H. Baston. 
Bulletin No. 725. 

Women's Rural Organizations and Their Activities. Anne M. Evans. Bulletin No. 719. 



42 THE joiiRNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [January 

Issued by the U. S. Food Administration: 
Hearty Lishes for 100. Suitable for Hotels, Boarding Houses, Institutions. 
Save Food. Food Conservation Program for the American People. Bui. 17. 
Sugar for the Common Table. 

Issued by the United States Public Health Service: 
Development of County Health Work. K. E. Miller. Reprint No. 470 from the Public 

Health Reports. 
The Dietar>' Deficiency of Cereal Foods with Reference to their content in "Antineuritic 

Vitamine;" The Growth-Promoting Properties of Foods Derived from Com and Wheat; 

Phosphorus as an Indicator of the "Vitamine" Content of Com and Wheat Products. 

Carl Voegtiin and C. N. Myers. Reprint No. 471 from the Public Health Reports. 

How Industrial Fatigue May Be Reduced. Reprint No. 482 from the Public Health 

Reports. 
War Program of the Public Health Service. Reprint No. 486 from the Public Health Reports. 

Issued by the Federal Board for Vocational Education: 

The Home Project as a Phase of Vocational Agricultural Education. Bulletin No. 21, Agri- 
cultural Series No. 3. 

Part-Time Trade and Industrial Education Bulletin No. 19, Trade and Industrial Series 
No. 3. 

Trade and Industrial Education, Organization and Administration. Bulletin No. 17, Trade 
and Industrial Education Series No. 1. 

Issued by the College of Industrial Arts, Denton, Texas: 
Suggested Clothing for the High School Girl. Departments of Fine .\rts and Textiles and 

Clothing. 
Menus and Recipes for 191 S. Lillian Peek, Department of Extension, (Reprint.) College 

Bulletin No. 65. 

Issued by the Michigan Agricultural College, East Lansing: 
Meat Substitutes. Prepared by the Home Economics Extension Division. 
Methods of Cooking Potatoes. Prepared by the Home Economics Extension Division. 
Extension Course Notes: No. 11, Food Values; No. 12, MQk; No. 13, Eggs; No. 14, Market 

Classes and Grades of Meat; No. 15, Vegetable Foods; No. 16, Rules for Planning the 

Family Dietary. 

Issued by the publishers listed: 

Child Conservation Number, The Commonwealth. Vol. 5, Nos. 9 and 10, Monthly Bulletin, 
Massachusetts State Department of Health. 

Child Welfare Work in Oregon. W. H. Slingerland, Ph.D. July Bulletin, Extension Divi- 
sion, University of Oregon, 1918. 

Food Conservation to Help Win the War. M. Minerva Lawrence. Bulletin No. 1756, Uni- 
versity of Texas. 

Vocational Educationinthe Light of the World War. John Dewey. Bulletin No. 4, January, 
1918, of The Vocational Educational Association of the Middle West, 1225 Sedgwick 
St., Chicago, 111. 

Woman in the War. A Bibliography. Marion R. Nims. Field Division, Council of 
National Defense, Washington, D. C. 

Your Health and How to Defend it. Loula Esdale Kennedy. Kansas State Agricultural 
College Bulletin, Vol. II, No. 11. 



1919] BIBLIOGRAPHY OF HOME ECONOMICS 43 

BIBLIOGRAPHY OF HOME ECONOMICS 

PERIODICAL LITERATURE 

Food and Nutrition 

Standards for Growth and Nutrition of School Children. L. E. Holt, Archives of Pcdi- 
alrks, 35 (1918), No. 6, p. 339. 

Preliminary Report on the Use of Vegetable Milk. H. D. Chapin, Archives of Pediatrics 
35 (1918), No. 6, p. 365. 

The Relative Morbidity of Breast and Bottle Fed Babies. H. M. McClanahan, Archives 
of Pediatrics, 35 (1918), No. 6, p. 372. 

The Disadvantages of Low Fat Percentages. A. F. Hand, Archives of Pediatrics, 35 
(1918), No. 6, p. 373. 

Educational V'alue and Opportunities of Baby Health Stations. J. Sobel, Archives of 
Pediatrics, 35 (1918), No. 8, p. 468. 

The " Vitamin" H>'pothesis and the Diseases Referable to Faulty Diet. E. V. McCollum, 
Jour. Amer. Med. Assoc, 71 (1918), No. 12, p. 937. 

The Role of Antiscorbutics in Our Dietary. .•Ufred F. Hess, Jour. .Amer. Med. Assn., 
71 (1918), No. 12, p. 941. 

.\ Study of the Diet of Xonpellagrous and of Pellagrous Households in Textile Mill 
Communities in South Carolina in 1916. Joseph Goldberger, G. A. Wlieeler and Edgar Sy- 
denstricker, Jour. Amer. Med. Assn., 71 (1918), No. 12, p. 944. 

Diet of the U. S. Army Soldier in the Training Camp. John R. Murlin, Jour. A mer. Med. 
Assn., 71 (1918), No. 12, p. 950. 

The Civilian War Ration. Paul Roth, Jour. Amer. Med. Assn., 71 (1918), No. 12, p. 
952. 

Botulism: A Method of Isolating BacUlus Botulinus from Infected Materials. Ernest 
C. Dickson and Georgina E. Burke, A.M., Jour. Amer. Med. Assn., 71 (1918), No. 7, p. 518. 

Diet in the Treatment of Tuberculosis. Halliday G. Sutherland, Amer. Med. (Special 
Food Number), June, 1918, p. 402. 

Food Economics. .Anthony Bassler, Amer. Med., June, 1918, p. 336. 

Dehydration as a Means of Economic Food Preservation. \\'m. E. Fitch, Amer. Med., 
June, 1918, p. 340. 

Dietetics in the Hospital and its Relation to Other Departments. Lulu Graves, Amer. 
Med. June, 1918, p. 345. 

Diet after Forty. .\dam Wright. Amer. Med., June, 1918, p. 355. 

Diet in Disease of the Skin. Wm. Cunningham, Amer. Med., June, 1918, p. 374. 

Place of Milk and Vegetables in the Diet. H. C. Sherman, Amer. Med., June, 1918, 
p. 361. 

Food in the Treatment and Prevention of Rickets. Eric Pritchard, Amer. Med., June, 
1918, p. 386. 

The Dietetic Treatment of Diabetes MeUitus. P. J. Cammidge, Amer. Med., June, 1918, 
p. 388. 

Composition of Peanuts and Peanut By-products. G. S. Fraps, Texas. Agr. Exp. Sta. 
Bui. 222, p. 38. Chemical Abstract, Vol. 12, p. 2030. 

Determination of Loosely Bound Nitrogen as Ammonia in Eggs. N. Hendrickson and 
G. C. Swann. Jour. Indus. Eng. Chcm., 10 (1918), pp. 614-617. 

Estimation of Lactose in Dried Milks. Reports to the Local Government Board, New 
Series 116; Food Reports No. 24, 1918. Chemical Abstract, No. 12, p. 2028. 



44 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [January- 

Occurrence of Carotin in Oils and Vegetables. A. H. Giles. Jour. Indus. Eng. Client., 

10 (1918), pp. 612-614. Chemical Abstract, 12, p. 1996. 

The Dietary Qualities of Barley. H. Steenbock, Hasel E. Kent, and E. G. Gross. Jour. 

Biol. Clicm., 35 (1918), pp. 61-74. Chemical Abstract, 12, p. 2000. 

Does not differ essentially in nutritive properties from maize, oats, and wheat. Deficient 

in fat sol. vitamine and protein; when salts, protein, and vitamine added, normal growth. 

Normal growth on 20 per cent barley. 

Powdered Milk and the Dairy Problem. Dorothy Reed Mendenhall, M.D., Forecast, 

June, 1918. 

Building a Home for the Housekeeper. Mary D. Chambers, Forecast, A Series, Janu- 
ary to June, August to September, 1918. 

Making Ends Meet. Winifred Stuart Gibbs, Forecast, July, Aug., Sept., Oct., 1918. 
The Garbage Can and the Soap Supply. Elsie McCormick, Forecast, Oct., 1918. 



CLOTHING AND TEXTILES 

Increased Flax Production. Textile World Jour., Oct. 5, 1918. 
Cotton Less Active with Prices Lower. Textile World Jour., Oct. 5, 1918. 
Staining Cotton and Woolen Mixtures. Textile World Jour., Oct. 12, 1918. 
Mexican Motifs. Designsadapted by Ada B. Beckwith, School A rts, Oct. ,1918. 
Textile Designs in Prize Contests of High Quality. Woman's Wear, Oct. 9, 1918. 
The Story of the Painted Curtain. Stewart Culin, Good Furniture, Sept., 1918. 
The Call of the Orient. Mme. Roshanara, Good Furniture, Sept., 1918. 
Chintzes, Old and New for Decoration. Mary Northend, House and Garden, Oct., 1918. 
Unwoven Floor Coverings Will Come into Their Own Again. W. L. Harris, Good Furni- 
ture, Oct., 1918. 

Why not— Felt Rugs after the War? Good Furniture, Oct., 1918. 
The Rug Trade Now and After the War. Good Furniture, Oct., 1918. 



ARCHITECTURE AND FURNITURE 

Mantels and Doorways — The Famous Octagon House in Washington (Pictures — Geor- 
gian or Adam Design). House Beautiful, Oct., 1918. 

Achieving the Picturesque in Building. Ernest Thompson Seton, Country Life, Oct., 
1918. 

Soul of Colonial Architecture. Murray P. Corse, Country Life, Oct., 1918. 

Fireplaces and Personality. S. W. Harting, House and Garden, Oct., 1918. 

The Evolution of the Bungalow. Austin D. Jenkins, House Beautiful, Oct., 1918. 

The Government to Tax Interior Furnishings. Decorative Furnisher, Oct., 1918. 

Kitchen Arrangement to Save Labor and Steps. Eva Nagel Wolf, House and Garden, 
Oct., 1918. 

The Sustained Popularity of the Long Table. W. G. Woods, House and Garden, Oct., 
1918. 

The Dining Room of Definite Cost. Nancy .Vshton, House and Garden, Oct., 1918. 

A New Fireplace in an Ancient Mode. House and Garden, Oct., 1918. 

Wartime Refurbishines for Your Walls. Nancy Ashton, House and Garden. Oct.. 1918 



NEWS FROM THE FIELD 



The American Home Economics Asso- 
ciation \rill meet in connection with the N. 
E. A. Di\-ision of Superintendence, Chicago, 
Illinois, February 28 and March 1, at 9.30 
a.m. and 2 p.m. each day, in Recital Hall, 
Auditorium Hotel. 

The program will include addresses by 
national leaders who are aiding in the Gov- 
ernment plans for Thrift Education, Ameri- 
canization Education, Health Education, 
and Education for Rural Life, movements 
intimately related to home economics prob- 
lems, and for which home economics women 
will be asked to lend their assistance and 
cooperation. 

There will be round table discussions of 
special questions relating to public school 
home economics work upon which home eco- 
nomics teachers should take a united stand, 
such as time allowance for classes, class 
scheduling, school luncheons, and content 
of courses. Methods of coordinating the 
various agencies now concerned in teachijig 
phases of home making will also be consid- 
ered. 

The Council meeting will be held at 8 
p.m. Thursday, February 27, at the Congress 
Hotel. The Congress Hotel will be head- 
quarters. 

Reser\'ations should be made immediately. 

.Announcement i* made of the Ellen H. 
Richards Memorial Fellowship, offered 
jointly by the Trustees of the Memorial 
Fund and the University of Chicago. The 
fellowship carries a stipend of $500 and 
tuition fees at the University of Chicago for 
the year 1919-20. Candidates should be 
able to present evidence of graduate work 
already done in some field of Home Eco- 
nomi s. Applications may be sent before 
April 1, 1919, to the Dean of the Graduate 
Schools, University of Chicago, Chicago, 111. 



The trustees of the Ellen H. Richards 
Memorial Fund announce that this year a 
second graduate scholarship will be availa- 
ble through the joint action of the Trustees 
and Teachers College. This will carrj- S400 
in cash and a year's tuition in the institu- 
tion. It is open only to college graduates. 
Detailed information may be obtained from 
the Secretary of Teachers CoUege, Columbia 
University. 

The National Society for Vocational 
Education will hold its annual meeting at 
St. Louis, Thursday to Saturday, February 
20 to 22, 1919, just before the meeting of the 
Division of Superintendence of the N. E. A. 
in Chicago. The general sessions are of 
unusual interest at this time of industrial 
and educational reconstruction, but of par- 
ticular importance to those in the home eco- 
nomics world are the two sectional meetings 
on Vocational Homemaking, on the after- 
noons of the 20th and 21st. 

The meeting will bring together many of 
the workers under the Smith-Hughes Act, 
and it is hoped that there will be a large rep- 
resentation of home economics workers gen- 
erally. Miss Isabel Ely Lord, vice-presi- 
dent of the N. S. V. E. for home economics, is 
chairman of the Committee on Vocational 
Homemaking, which has a large membership 
and an executive committee whose member- 
ship includes Miss ."^nna Cooley, Miss Helen 
Hildreth, Miss Maude Murchie, Miss Grace 
Schermerhom, and (e.x officio as on the 
general Executive Committee to represent 
home economics) Miss Charlotte Ebbets. 
A strong program is being planned, includ- 
ing a round table discussion of some of the 
most pressing problems of this %vork. 

The headquarters will probably be the 
Hotel Statler, but detailed information can 
be had from the office of the N. S. V. E., 
140 West 42nd Street, New York City. 
45 



46 



THE JOURNAX OF HOME ECONOMICS 



[January 



The National Dairy Show held its 
twelfth annual exhibit October 10 to 19 at 
Columbus, Ohio. The program was a great 
departure from that of former years. Wliile 
the first and most obvious purpose was, of 
course, the promotion of the dairy interests, 
in addition to this and under the leadership 
of the Food .Administration, the U. S. De- 
partment of .Agriculture, Children's Bureau, 
The Ohio State College of .Agriculture, and 
local welfare organizations, the Dairj- Show 
enlisted in the national educational welfare 
campaign, special emphasis being placed 
upon child welfare. 

The work of the government and allied 
agencies diN^ded itseU into two phases — the 
one which was concerned with teaching a 
greater appreciation of milk and milk 
products in the dietarj' of the nation and the 
other which concerned itself with child wel- 
fare in general. The presentation of the 
subject matter was through lectures, charts, 
prepared dietaries for school children, bul- 
letins, card index to publications bearing on 
the subjects, and demonstrations in the prep- 
aration of food from milk and milk products. 
The food work was in charge of home eco- 
nomics women of the United States Depart- 
ment of .Agriculture and Ohio State Univer- 
sity; child welfare came under the supervision 
of representatives from the Children's Bu- 
reau and local organizations. 

Throughout the entire session the relation 
of the dairy industr>' to successful homes 
was made apparent. The feeding of the 
child is the vital thing of America today. 
This means primarily milk. In an address 
before the Conference, Dr. McCoUum said, 
"MUk is our greatest protective food and its 
use must be increased rather than dimin- 
ished. The liberal use of milk has made us 
what we are. No family has the right to 
purchase any meat until each member has 
at least a pint of milk daily and this I re- 
gard as below the optimum. Milu is just as 
necessarj- for the maintenance of health in 
the adult as in the young." 
; The entire exhibit was designed to be edu- 



cational. It appealed to both the producing 
dairv-men and to the consuming public. 
Too much praise can not be gi\'en to those 
who participated in the conception and carry- 
ing out of the program of this excellent wel- 
fare session of the Twelfth National Dairy 
Show. 

The Baltimore Home Economics Asso- 
ciation had its initial meeting in November, 
1918, in connection with the j'early confer- 
ence of the teachers of the State, the gath- 
ering of fifty being made up mainly of 
teachers of home economics, demonstrators 
under the Extension Division of the Marj'- 
land State College of .Agriculture, and dieti- 
tians from hospitals and other institutions. 
It was decided that the time had come when 
a permanent association was needed. 

.At the second meeting, the committee on 
organization presented a constitution for 
adoption and nominated officers. The ofiS- 
cers as elected were: President, Mrs. Mary 
H. .Abel; Vice President, Miss Helen T. 
Parsons; Treasurer, Miss Marjory Wills; 
Secretary Miss Winifred .Alvather; Members- 
at-large of Executive Committee, Miss 
Alice C. Walton, Dr. Ruth Wheeler, Mrs. 
Agnes O'Dea, Dr. Leiia Powers, Miss Flor- 
ence Powdermaker. The above officers 
make up the E.xecutive Committee, and 
meet monthly for the transaction of business 
preceding the regular meetings. 

At the first meeting of the Executive Com- 
mittee the following standing committees 
were appointed; Membership, Program, Re- 
lations to the Public Schools, to Dietitians 
and Social Workers, and to Women's Or- 
ganizations in the City. 

The Januarj- meeting was held at the time 
of the meeting of the .Association of .American 
Agricultural Colleges and Experiment Sta- 
tions, and the large gathering listened to 
short addresses from the following guests: 
Miss Abby L. Marlatt, Miss Isabel Bevier, 
Miss Edna N. White, Miss Alice Ravcnhill, 
Dr. C. F. Langworthy, and Professor E. V. 
McCoUum. 



Vol. XI, No. 2 ■ Februar\, 1919 

THE 

Journal of Home Economics 

For those interested in Honiemaking, Institution Management, 
and Educational Work in Home Economics 

Mrs. Auce P. Norton, Editor Ketueah E. Baldwin, Business Editor 

Editorial Board 
Mrs. Mary H.Abel C. F. Langwortiiv Ethelwyn Miller Roth Wheeler Aire Daniels 

Ex-Ofncio Members -Edna N. WmTE, PresideM American Home Economics Association 
Elsie Leonard. Chairman Institution Economics Section 
Katherine Blunt. Chairman Science Section 
Acnes E. Harris, Chairman Extension Education Section 
Grace Denny, Chairman Textile Section 

CoUaboratoTS—Tbe Officers, Members of the Council, and Advisors 



CONTENTS 

JE«-ISH DlET.\RY Problems •l-f"0' L. Schapiro 47 

The Sil\-er Lining of Our Con"serv.\tion- Cloud LillUin Peck 59 

Factors Ixfluencixc the .•\mount of Ix\ert Siioar in Font>\nt 

Amy L. Daniels and Dorothy M. Cook 65 

The Context of a College Course on Child Welfare Alice Ravcnhilt 70 

What it Takes to Produce JIilk '''' 

For the Homemaker 

The F.\rm Bureau .\n-d Home De.monstratiox Work C. B. Smith Ti 

Does Ltjxtjrious Expenditure Gi\'e Employmext to Lahor? 82 

Editorial ^"^ 

Books and Literature 89 

Bibliography of Home Ecoxomics ^1 

Xews from the Field 93 



The JoaRNAL op Home EcoNOiacs is published monthly by the American Home Economics Association. 
12.00 A YEAR. FOREIGN J2.35. CANADIAN $2.20. SINGLE COPIES 25 CENTS 

HOW TO REMIT. Remittances should be sent by Check, Express Order or Postal Money Order, payable to tlie 
Ame.-ican Home Economics Association. Currency , unless mailed in a repistered letter, is at the sender s risk. 

NOTICE When payment is made by check no receipt will be sent unless requested. 

CHANGE IN ADDRESS. Notice of change in address should be sent Two Weeks before the date of issue on which 
the change is to take effect. The subscriber's Old Address should be clearly indicated in addition to the New Address. 

AMERICAN HOME ECONOMICS ASSOCIATION 1211 Cathedral St., Baltimore, Md. 

Tbi Jocsnal op HoiiE Eco^^OlIICs is on sale at John Wanaraaker's, Philadelphia: The Old Corner Rook Store. Hostoo; 
A. C McClurg's. Chicago: Baltimore News Company, Baltimore; Woodward and Lolhrop, WashinElon 



The American Home Economics Association 



Organized Dec. 31. 1908. Incorporated May 12, 1909. 

The American Home Economics Association exists for the purpose of bringing together those interested i 
of conditions in the home, the school, the public institution, and the community. 

Annual Dues: Active $2.00; Associate tl.OO. Only active members receive the quarterly bulletin. 



FLORA ROSE, 

Cornell University, Ithaca, N. Y. 

Secretary 

CORA M. WmCHELL, 

Teachers College, New York City 



President 

EDNA N. WHITE, 

Ohio State University, Coltimbus 

Vice-Presidents 

ISABEL BEVIER. 

Univeraity of Illinois, Urbuia 



EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE 



C. F. LANGWORTHY, 

U. S. Dept. Agr., Washington, D. C. 

Teeasdrei 

H. GALE TURPIN, 

Baltimore Trust Company, Baltimore 



The Executive Committee is composed of the following members: The president, three vice-presidents, secretary, ticai- 
urer, the retiring president, and 6ve additional members of the Council, chosen by the Council, viz.: Sarah Louise Arnold 
Anna Barrows, Alice Loomis, Mary E. Matthews, Catharine Mulligan. 



COUNCILORS AT LARGE 



Sarab Louise Arnold 

Simmons College, 

Boston, Mass 

Isabel Ely Lord, 
Pratt Institute. 

Brooklyn, N. Y; 

Mrs. Henrietta Calvin, 

U. S. Bureau of Education, 
Washington, D. C. 
Fannie Twiss, 

Normal School, Regina, 
Saskatchewan, Canada. 



TERMS EXPIRE 1919 
Josephine T. Berry, 
University Farm. 
St. Paul, Minn. 

Catharine A. Mclugah, 
Convene College, 

Spartanburg, S. C. 

TERMS EXPIRE 1920 
Auce Looms, 

University of Nebraska, 
Lincoln, Neb. 

Edna N. WnrrE, 

University of Ohio, 
Columbus, Ohio. 



Helen Louise Johnson, 

37 E. 28th St., 

N. Y. C. 



RY E. Sweeney, 
University of Kentucky, 
Lexington, Ky. 



TERMS EXPIRE 1921 
RCTH Wardall, 

University of Iowa, 
Iowa City, Iowa 

Mary E. Matthews, 
Purdue University, 
LaFayette, Ind. 
TERMS EXPIRE 1922 
Jenny H. Snow, 

Sup'v'r Household Arts, 
Chicago, 111. 

Grace Denny, 

Univ. of Washington, 
Seattle. 
TERMS EXPIRE 1923 
Auce Ravenhill. 
Agricultural College, 
Logan, Utah. 

Mary Gearing, 

University of Texas, 
Austin, Texas. 
SECTIONAL COUNCILORS 
Institution Economics Section: Mrs. Melvil Dewey, Lake Placid Club, N. Y.; Elsie Leonard, Univ. of Wis. 
Science Section: Katharine Bldnt, Univ. of Chicago. 

Extension Section; Agnes Ellen Harris, Fla. State College tor Women. Tallahassee 
Textile Section: Grace Denny, Univ. of Wash., Seattle. 
REPRESENTATIVE COUNCILORS 
One representative councilor may be chosen by each aSiliated society, provided the councilor is a member of the American 
Home Economics Association. The names of those appointed are printed with the officers of the Affiliated Association. 
TRUSTEES OF THE ELLEN H. RICHARDS MEMORIAL FUND 
board of investuent op permanent funds op association 
TERMS EXPIRE JANUARY 1, 1919 

Dr. Katharine Blctnt, Mrs. Henrietta W. Cal\is, 

University of Chicago Bureau of Education. 



Effie Raitt, 

University of Washington, 
Seattle, Wash. 

EUELINE WhTTCOUB. 

Univeraity of Montana. 
Missoula, Mont. 

Euua Winslow, 
Teachers College, 
New York City. 
Ada Field, 

George Peabody College, 
Nashville, Tenn. 

Maude Morchie. 
Sacramento, Cal. 

Florence Ward, 
U. S. Dept. Agr., 

Washington, D. C. 



Mrs' Charles W. Greihi. 
14 Columbia Ave., 

Columbia, Me 



Carlotta Greer, 

E. Tech. High School, 
Cleveland, Ohio. 



E. V. McCOLLUM, 

Johns Hopkins University , 
Baltimore, Md. 



KjAuiN R Andrews. 

Teachers College, 

New' York, 

{Secretary and Treasurer.) 



Martha Van Rensselaer, 
Cornell University. 
Ithaca, N. Y. 



Dr. LomsE Stanley. ~ _ Washington, D. C. 

Federal Board for Vocational Education, 
Washington. D. C. 
TERMS EXPIRE JANUARY 1. 1920 

Mrs. Annie Dewey. Anna Barrows. 

Lake Placid Club. Teaeheis College, 

Lake Placid. N. Y New York City. 

Bertha M. Terrill. 
Univ. of Vermont. 
Buriington, Vt. 
TERMS EXPIRE JANUARY 1, 1921 

Elizabeth Condit, Robert H. Richards, 

Pratt Institute. Mass. Inst, of Technology 

Brooklyn, N. Y. Boston, Mass. 

Marion Talbot. 

University of Chicago. 
Chicago. III. 



THE 

Journal of Home Economics 

Vol. XI FEBRUARY, 1919 No. 2 

JEWISH DIETARY PROBLEMS 

MARY L. SCHAPIRO 

New York City alone has two hundred and seventy-five thousand 
Jewish children in its public schools. One has but to remember this to 
be con\-inced that home economics teachers of the Jewish districts are 
confronted with a difficult task. Yet after two years study on the 
East Side of New York City, \'isiting the schools, school lunch rooms, 
Jewish philanthropic institutions, and a great many typical Jewish 
homes, I have come to the conclusion that the difficulty arises from 
ignorance which an adequate background of information could in a 
large measure remove. This information groups itself naturally into 
two divisions, each dependent on the other. The first is a knowledge 
of the dietary laws by which all orthodox Jews live and which may not 
imder any circumstances be violated without the risk of alienating the 
child. The second is a knowledge of the characteristic Jewish food 
habits, good and bad. Both of these factors should be used in the ap- 
phcation of the principles of nutrition and cooker^'. 

While the following hst of dietary laws is not exhaustive, it covers all 
those that are now regarded as essential. 

Prohihilion of Animal Foods. Absolute and partial prohibitions: 

Unclean animals are absolutely prohibited. Their offspring is also 
prohibited, so also is that which comes out of either. "Clean animals 
are all quadrupeds that chew the cud and also divide the hoof." All 
others are regarded as not clean. The swine, weasel, mouse, four kinds 
of lizards and the chameleon are distinctly listed as unclean. 

Products of animals that are suffering from some malady or that have 
died a natural death or had eaten poison are regarded as "tcrcfah" and 
may not be used. 

47 



48 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [February 

"All animal food which is not obtained by killing in the prescribed 
manner and after adequate inspection by a duly authorized official may 
not be used." 

Blood was regarded by the ancient Hebrews, and is by many primitive 
peoples today, as the vital part of the animal which must be given 
back to God. Fish does not come under this category, possibly because 
it is a cold-blooded animal. 

"Fish that have fins and scales — none other — may be eaten." This 
would bar all shell fish such as oysters, or lobsters, as well as fish of the 
eel variety. There seems to have been some good dietetic reason for 
this, as the Eastern waters were doubtless often polluted and there may 
have been cases of poisoning resulting from the mistaking of poisonous 
water snakes for eels. 

No scavengers or birds of prey are to be eaten. These are regarded 
as unclean. 

Roe of unclean fish is forbidden. 

The suet of ox, sheep, or goat is forbidden (not the fat). Fat of birds 
or pennitted wild animals is not forbidden. 

An egg yolk with a drop of blood on it is considered as an embrj'o 
chick and is forbidden. 

The following partial prohibitions are fully as important as the above: 

"After the proper cut of meat is secured from the proper kind of animal 
which has been slaughtered in accordance with Jewish Law, it is to be 
soaked half an hour to soften the fibre and enable the juice to escape 
more readily when salted. (The pan used for this purpose may not be 
used for anything else.) The meat is then thoroughly salted, placed 
on a board which is either perforated or fluted, and placed in an oblique 
position so as to enable the blood to drain off. It is allowed to remain 
thus for one hour, after which time it is to be washed three times. The 
washing is for the purpose of removing all the salt. This process is 
called 'Kashern,' " and is regarded as very important. 

"Meat left for three days or more unsoaked and unsalted may be used 
only for broiling." 

"Bones with no meat and fat adhering to them must be soaked sepa- 
rately and during the salting should not be placed near the meat." 

"The liver must be prepared apart from the meat. It is not kashered 
as is meat, but cut across in two directions, washed, salted and broiled 
over an open fire. AVhen seared on all sides water is poured over it to 
remove the blood. It may then be used as is kashered meat, for the 



1919] JEWISH DIETARY PROBLEMS 49 

heat is supposed to have removed all the blood. Chops and small 
steaks are treated in the same way." 

" Chops and steaks may be broiled as above." 

"The heart may be used but must be cut open lengthwise and the 
tip removed before soaking. This enables the blood to flow out more 
freely. Lungs are treated as is heart. Milt must have veins removed. 
The head and feet may be kashered with the hair or skin adhering to 
them. The head must have the brain removed. This latter, if used, 
must be kashered separately." 

"To kasher fat for clarifj-ing remove the skin and proceed as with 
meat." 

"In preparing poultrj' it must be drawn and the insides removed 
before putting into the water. The claws must be cut off before 
kashering. The head must be cut off. The skin of the neck must 
be either turned back or cut so that the vein lying between two 
tendons may be removed. This extends all the way to the back. At 
the back of the neck its two branches must be removed." 

"Eggs found in poultry with or without shells, must be soaked and 
when salted placed on the board in such a spot that the meat does not 
drain upon them. Such eggs may not be eaten with milk foods." 

Hindquarters are forbidden because of the fact that "when Jacob 
wrestled with the angel the patriarch was lamed." 

WTiile the last prohibition is obser\-ed in this country, I am told b}' a 
rabbi that this is not the case everywhere. The Biblical pro\qsion 
permits the use of hindquarters if properh' porged. The packing- 
houses, however, find that the hindquarters bring too high a price in 
the non- Jewish market to warrant their bothering with the porging. 

"^eething a kid in its mother's mUk is forbidden." 

This is the origin of the prohibition against the cooking of meat and 
milk together or of the eating of such mixtures. This rule is rigidly 
adhered to and in its present application necessitates the use of a com- 
plete double equipment of dishes, and utensils. Since this rule is 
regarded as one of the most important, one can understand why such 
sauces as butter sauces are refused at meals with meat. This rule 
occasions the home economics teacher considerable trouble in planning 
menus. 

"Meat and fish should not be cooked or eaten together, for such a 
mixture is supposed to cause leprosy. The mouth has to be washed 
after eating fish and before meat may be eaten." 



50 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [February 

In addition to the above regular daily restrictions there are the 
periodic restrictions that the teacher should know. 

Sabbath: No food may be cooked on the Sabbath. This means that 
all the cooking for both days is done on Friday. This need has led to 
the development of foods such as Sabbath Kugel or Sholend, Petshai, 
and many others. 

Passover: During Passover week no leavened bread or its product, or 
anything which may have touched leavened bread may be used. This 
restriction holds for eight days. In every Jewish home a complete and 
most thorough system of cleaning precedes this holiday. No comer 
escapes a scrubbing and scouring, lest a particle of leaven, or what is 
just as bad, a particle of food which may have touched leavened bread, 
should be found. A complete new set of dishes is in use during the 
week. Cutlery, silver, or metal pots may be used during this holiday if 
properly kashered or sterilized. The usual method of doing this is to 
plimge red hot coals into boiling water and then to immerse the desired 
utensils. These or any other Passover utensils may be used after the 
holiday is over without re-kashering, but once used without Passover 
precautions they are imfit for Passover use unless re-kashered. In 
actual practice this means that in every orthodox Jewish household 
there are four sets of dishes — the usual set for meat and the set for milk 
food, in addition to duplicate Passover sets. The Passover dishes are 
stored away very carefully lest some leaven come near them. 

Because of the need for abstaining from leavened bread during Pass- 
over, many interesting dishes have developed such as the Mazzah 
Klos (dumphngs) soup, cakes and puddings made of the mazzah meal. 
Almond pudding and cake are very popular. Alniost all of the food 
cooked during this holiday requires the liberal use of shortening or fat, 
with great danger of a too Hberal use for health, as well as from the 
economic point of view. The fat generally used is either goose or 
chicken dripping, or clarified beef fat other than suet. This is prepared 
as early as Hannuka (Feast of Lights), occurring in the middle of De- 
cember. The drippings are generally savory and very fine. 

Fast Days; a. Yom Kippur (The Day of Atonement). No food or 
drink may be had for twenty-four hours, b. Fast of Esther. This 
precedes the Feast of Purim and is now observed only by the very pious. 
The feast is universally obser\'ed. 

Semi-Fast Days: Eight days in Ab — For nine days no meat food 
may be eaten by the orthodox. Since this comes in the heat of the 
summer it must have been a rather welcome restriction dietetically. 



1919] JEWISH DIETARY PROBLEMS 51 

"The many dietary and ceremonial laws to which orthodox Jews 
conform," says a writer in tlie Jewish Encyclopedia, "have naturally 
evolved a particular kind of culinary art." 

The wanderings of the Children of Israel since Bible times has con- 
siderably added to their skill as cooks and has modified and varied their 
tastes. It has made Jewish cookery international. For example, from 
Spain and Portugal comes the fondness of the modem Jew for olives 
and the use of oil as a frying medium. The sour and sweet stewing of 
meats and vegetables comes from Germany. The love of pickles, 
cucumbers, and herrings comes from Holland, so also does the fondness 
for butter cakes and bolas (grain rolls). From Poland the Jewish immi- 
grant has brought the knowledge of the use of Lokschen or Fremsel 
soup (cooked with goose drippings) , also stuffed and stewed fish of vari- 
ous kinds. From Russia comes Kasha, made of barley or grits or cereal 
of some sort which is eaten instead of a vegetable with meat gravy. 
Blintzes are turnovers made of a poured batter and filled with preserves, 
or cheese, and used as a dessert. Sholent, sometimes called Kugel, are 
puddings of many kinds, such as Magan, Lokschen, Farfil. Zimes, or 
compotes of pliuns, prunes, carrots, and sweet potatoes, turnips and 
prunes, parsnips and prunes, and prunes and onions, are all puddings, 
and come from Russia. Zimes of apples, pears, figs, and prunes are 
southern Roumanian, Galician and Lithuanian as well. 

Here is a list of some of the most characteristically Jewish dishes. 

Soups are the great standby of the poor. Krupnick is a term used for 
cereal soups made of a cereal like oatmeal, with potatoes and fat. When 
the family can afford it meat or milk is added as the case may be. This 
is the staple food of the "Yeshibot" (schools to which Jewish boys are 
sent to be instructed in Rabbinical lore.) When there is neither meat 
nor milk in the soup it is called " Soup mit nisht." This really is "Sup- 
per mit nichts." 

Borsht is a form of soup. It is made of either cabbage or beet-root 
and russel (juice derived from the beet) . This is made by the addition 
of meat, bones, onions, raisins, citric acid, sugar, and sometimes toma- 
toes. Eggs are added just before serving to whiten it. This is called 
"farweissen." 

Gehakte Herring is really a salad made of chopped boned herring, 
with hard cooked eggs, onions, apples, pepper, and a little vinegar and 
sugar. It is used as an appetizer in the form of a canape. 



52 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOiHCS [February 

Sabbath Kugel or Sholend is a dish of meat, peas, and beans, some- 
times barley or potatoes as well, which is placed in the oven before 
Sabbath and which is usually eaten hot on the Sabbath. This dish is 
sometimes also called a Shalet. Those who call this dish a Shalet or 
Sholend usually mean pudding when they speak of Kugel. These 
three terms are used interchangeably by different people. 

Petshai or Drelies, characteristic of South Russia, GaHcia, and Rou- 
mania, is a calves' foot jelly made at home. (Commercial gelatin is 
prohibited.) The calves feet are cleaned by first singeing off the hair. 
They are then kashered and stewed with onions and seasonings of salt 
and pepper. Like the Sabboth Kugel, this is placed in the oven the 
day before and is ready hot by Sabbath noon. What is left is freed 
from bone, has hard cooked eggs and vinegar added, and is allowed to 
congeal. This forms a sort of aspic which is ser\'ed cold in the later 
afternoon. 

Strudel is a single layered jelly or fruit cake and takes tlie place of 
pie as a dessert. It is usually rolled. The dough is as thin as tissue 
paper. 

Teigachz is a pudding sometimes called Kugel or Sholend and may 
be made of rice, noodles, farfil, or even mashed potatoes. These usually 
have some drippings, eggs, and flavorings added. 

Gebrattens is pot roast and is usually accompanied by Kasha, though 
it is often served with potatoes which have been cooked with the pot 
roast. These are really stewed to a golden brown. Onions are always 
an important ingredient. 

Almond Pudding is a favorite because it requires neither meat nor 
butter and can therefore be eaten at either type of meal. It is made of 
almonds, eggs, sugar, cinnamon, and lemon rind, and baked. 

The obstacles to the use of meat have developed a taste for fish, as 
well as for cheese and milk products. Since fish is not a warm-blooded 
animal it may be eaten in conjunction with milk and milk products. 
This is an added reason for its popularity. The celebration of the 
Sabboth and the eating of fish have always been associated. The 
author already alluded to says that "from no orthodo.x table is fish 
absent at one or more of the Sabboth meals, however difficult it may be 
to procure." In inland countries like Poland the Jews are limited to 
fresh water fish. I have known people, who could barely afford bread 
during the week, to pay as much as forty or even fifty cents per pound 
for their Sabboth fish. Salmon is a favorite kind of fish. "This is 



1919] JEWISH DIETARY PROBLEMS 53 

fried, white stewed, or brown stewed." Smoked salmon, pickled her- 
rings, and pickled pickerels are served as appetizers by the Russian 
Jews. Most characteristic of all the fish dishes, perhaps, is the "gefilte 
fish," for which carp, white fish, and pike are most generally used. 
Part of the fiesh of the fish is removed and chopped with onions, bread 
crumbs, seasonings, and egg. The mixture is returned to the fish which 
is then cooked or stewed with more onion and a large amount of pepper 
for several hours at a low temperature. The long slow cooking devel- 
ops the flavor of the different kinds of fish which blend and form a most 
palatable dish. \\Tiile Jewish fish dishes form excellent appetizers, or 
even entrees, I do not thmk they are desirable as the main dish of tlie 
meal, because of the high seasoning. For this reason they are partic- 
ularly bad for children, and the home economics teacher has a real 
missionary task to perform in creating a taste for less highly seasoned 
food. 

The dietary restrictions on the use of butter and meat at the sam6 
meal limit the use of vegetables. Jewish people are therefore not as 
fond of them as they ought to be for their own physical well being. 
One form in which vegetables may appear at the same meal with meat 
is with a sweet and sour sauce, — a brown sauce to which citric acid, 
or vinegar, and sugar have been added. If this is well made it is good, 
but the making of sauces is always an art. Stewed fruits are almost 
unknown. Preserves and wonderful preserves are plentiful. Plain 
stewed fruit has its nearest approach in the ztmes, but as a rule these 
are really rich enough to be a conserve. While this might do in small 
quantities as a dessert it would not do as a breakfast fruit. Fruit does 
not appear at breakfast as much as it should. 

Some of the limitations of the diet, when unchanged by instruction, 
are evident. It is inadequately balanced, over-rich, and over-seasoned. 
These facts make it imperative that the domestic science instruction 
should be of such a nature that the children will feel its value, yet there 
are reports of the teaching of the use of lard in bread and pastry lessons. 
I have personally not found such a blunder in any of the schools that I 
have visited. Usually a neutral vegetable fat was used. Instruction in 
the schools should aim at correcting some of the dietary defects. This 
is only possible when the teacher has the child's complete confidence, 
and this, as everyone knows, can never be gained when religious scruples 
are violated. 



54 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [February 

The schools are not alone in facing this problem. All social welfare 
workers have met it. 

At the time when this investigation was made it was found that the 
Jewish charitable and philantliropic institutions obser\ang religious 
restrictions generally made an attempt to furnish an adequately bal- 
anced diet. Some succeeded excellently, balancing their day's rations 
by the liberal use of milk and fruit. In others, however, particularly in 
some poorer day nurseries, conditions were far from satisfactory for the 
health and growth of the little ones under tlieir jurisdiction. For 
example, tea, coffee, or milk, instead of only milk, were offered by the 
investigated places. That tea and coifee should be offered at all to 
children under eight years of age seems pitiful ; that tea and coffee should 
be put in the same class with milk is wrong. In nearly all of the menus 
meat appears every day. Cereal and fresh fruit and vegetables do not 
appear in most of these institutions as often as they should. In many 
cases they are so seldom used as to make tlieir absence stand out as one 
of the striking defects of the diet. 

The difficulties of cultivating a taste for the simpler foods are strik- 
ingly illustrated by an experiment extending over a period of eleven 
weeks, an experiment which demonstrated at the same time that the 
problem is capable of solution, even with grown-ups. During the sum- 
mer of 1917 about one hundred and twenty-five girls spent two weeks 
on an average in a vacation house. On their arrival nearly all the 
girls looked pale, anaemic, and half starved. In an incredibly short 
time the rest and good air coupled with the delightful surroundings 
gave them perfectly enormous appetites. Apparently they could 
eat everything, yet the first introduction of vegetables with bland sauces 
of any sort usually furnished a left over problem. The girls simply 
refused to eat them regardless of their hunger. The same vegetables 
sers^ed as stews, ragouts, casseroles, or pot-pies, well seasoned, were 
reUshed. If these vegetables were served as salads with mayonnaise 
dressing they remained untouched. The only exceptions were as a 
rule those girls who had already begun to break away from this part 
of the faith and to eat "grass" in restaurants. When these vegetables 
were served with a sharp French dressing they were favorites. How- 
ever, even by the end of the short period of two weeks many of the girls 
expressed a decided preference for the stewed fruit over the compote, 
and considered the creamed vegetables "eatable." 



1919] JEWISH DIETARY PROBLEMS 55 

I had great difficulty in getting the girls to eat the breakfast cereal, 
yet they ate all kinds of cereals in soups. Except for rice pudding, 
really a sort of cake as it is made, the possibilities of cereals are not 
at all worked out. It is needless to suggest to the home economics 
teacher the value of cereals in the diet, and the fact that their use ought 
to be stressed. As to the remedies, the answer is difficult. Certainly 
one ought not to turn one's back on the problem. In addition to a 
knowledge of the food which the Jewish people eat and relish it is neces- 
sar}- to have an understanding of its valuable features as well as of its 
shortcomings. \\'ith this background one should teach the application 
of the principles of nutrition and cookery to their own diet, pointing 
out the places where modifications are necessary-. Modifications are 
important, as even the children are likely to prefer the highly seasoned 
to the bland foods. Modification of the dietary tastes of a people is, 
of course, a slow and ofttimes thankless task, but when one realizes the 
evils attending the constant irritation which the high seasoning pro- 
duces, one cannot help the desire to undertake it. 

At the outset it is well to remember if one is to make any progress, 
(1) that the Jewish women are as a whole good cooks, and (2) that 
because of the long slow cooking to which their food is subjected it is 
as a rule easily assimilated. Thus the problem is not to get them to 
adopt .American cooking but to modify their own style of cooking so 
as to eliminate its harmful features while preserving its beneficial 
qualities. 

One must not forget that while the diet of the poorer Jews is a some- 
what narrow one, it is one which yields a greater return for the amount 
of money and energy put into it than does that of the poorer American ; 
for they have the secret of making a little go a great way. There are 
dozens of ways in which the Jewish housewife utilizes a little fresh meat. 
But, on the other hand, she does not as a rule use leftovers. This is 
because she seems to feel that since the meat is generally part of the 
main meal of the day, to use the same bit of food in the same form 
twice in succession would be unattractive and, not having ingenuity 
enough to change its form, she discards it. Here is a chance for con- 
servation work along the line of teaching attractive ways of using left- 
over cooked food. 

Our real problem is therefore first to discover just how to make them 
see the need for an adequately balanced diet, and second, how to make 
them follow it. All people, bu* especially the Jewish people, need to 



56 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [February 

have their attention called to the fact that unless they make a con- 
scientious effort their diet is likely to be deficient in mineral matter. 
Although Jewish people are fond of milk it is generally regarded as a 
luxury, and as the need for economizing becomes greater tlieir milk bills 
tend to become smaller. This is something, under all circumstances, 
to be guarded against, but is an especially serious matter in the case 
of a people who eat so few vegetables. As among the poor of all peoples, 
there seems to be a tendency to substitute tea and coffee for milk as the 
beverage of children. Emphasis on milk is of real value. 

Teaching the conservation of wheat, meat, sugar, and fat has not been 
difficult, for it is interesting to note that the Jewish people are naturally 
more fond of rye than of wheat bread, and barley, oats, and buckwheat 
have always been used. Thej^ have also always known how to serv^e a 
little meat attractively, and meat is eaten only once a day. Pork, of 
course, is never touched. Jewish housewives have long known how 
to use honey, molasses, and syrup in place of sugar. Sugar is a luxury 
in the countries from which they come. 

Lessons in cooking might very profitably include: (a) Many ways 
of using fish as substitutes for meat, (b) Many ways of using nut and 
legume dishes. Peas, beans, lentils and rice need to be picked over care- 
fully before using lest a spoilt particle be used, (c) Variations of cream 
sauces (which are not liked), such, for example, as a cream custard 
sauce, which is much liked, or cream sauce containing cheese with 
extra seasonings. Tomato sauce and its variations such as creole and 
Spanish, (d) Cream soups, (e) Cereals — for breakfast, as soups and 
as desserts. All cereals must be tested as follows before using. "Place 
them on a hot plate. If no worms or other insects appear they are fit 
to be eaten ; if not fit they must be thrown away. If flour is mildewed 
it must be destroyed." (f) Stewed fruits and vegetables, fresh and 
canned, (g) Salads and salad dressings for fruit and vegetables, (h) 
Use of leftovers. 

In using the following menus it should be borne in mind that tea and 
coffee are not for children. They should have milk. Neither have I 
planned that the little ones have the more highly flavored foods. They 
should have cereals. In planning these menus I have had in mind at 
least one pint of milk per day for every adult, and one quart for every 
child. These menus are only suggestive; they probably could not be 
followed by the very poor and probably would not be literally followed 
by the very rich. 



1919] JEWISH DIETARY PROBLEMS 57 

My efforts were directed toward (1) supplying an adequately bal- 
anced diet; (2) one which will be so Uke that to which the Jews are ac- 
customed that it will be liked. I might state that these menus, with 
but few changes, were in actual use in the experiment above referred 
to and that the girls showed an average gain of from 2^ to 3 pounds per 
week for the two weeks that they remained. 

MENTIS FOR TEN DAYS 

Breakfast 

Sunday: Sliced bananas, oatmeal, sugar and milk, toast, coffee. 

Monday: Stewed prunes, hominy, sugar and milk, rye biscuits, cocoa. 

Tuesday: Stewed dried apple sauce, corn meal mush, sugar and milk, 
cereal muffins, coffee. 

Wednesday: Oranges, corn flakes, sugar and milk, toast, coffee. 

Thursday: Stewed dried peaches, oatmeal, sugar and milk, rye rolls, coffee. 

Friday: Stewed fresh apples and apricots, fried corn meal and syrup 
(oatmeal for children), cereal muffins, coffee. 

Saturday: Stewed rhubarb, corn flakes, cold fried fish, bread and butter, 
coffee. 

Sunday: Raisins and figs, hominy, sugar and milk, corn muffins, coffee. 

Monday: Stewed peaches, rice and raisins, sugar and milk, corn dodgers, 
coffee. 

Tuesday: Stewed prunes and bananas, corn meal mush, sugar and milk, 
rice muffins. 

Luncheon 

Sunday (dinner at noon): Noodle soup, chicken fricassee, rice, string 
beans, sweet-sour sauce, pineapple and apricot ice. 

Monday: Cream of pea soup, herring and boiled potatoes, corn' bread, 
butter, French pancake. 

Tiiesday: Spanish rice, vegetable salad, Boston brown bread, almond blanc 
mange, fruit sauce. 

Wednesday: Japanese eggs, sliced tomato salad, gingerbread, coffee. 

Thursday: Salmon salad, baked potatoes, raisin cake, cocoa. 

Friday: Fried tile fish, creamed potatoes, cold slaw, layer cake, ice tea. 

Saturday (dinner at noon) : Cold gefillte fish, noodle soup, Sabboth sholend 
(beans, peas, barley), lettuce and cucumber salad, prune and onion zimes or 
carrot and sweet potato zimes, cookies, tea. 

Sunday (dinner at noon) : Vegetable soup, roast beef, Franconia potatoes, 
asparagus, white sauce (made without milk), lemon ice. 



58 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [February 

Monday: Sour cream and cheese, baked potatoes, radishes, Indian pudding, 
tea. 

Tuesday: Cod fish cakes, peas in cream sauce, sliced tomato salad, dried 
apricot or date marmalade, cookies, tea. 

Dmner 

Sufiday (supper): Combination salad (lettuce, scallions, cucumbers, and 
tomatoes with sour cream), boiled potatoes, rye bread and butter, war 
cake, coffee. 

Monday: Barley and mushroom soup (dried mushrooms preferred), scal- 
loped chicken with rice and tomatoes, lettuce and asparagus salad, French 
dressing, cookies, tea. 

Tuesday: Corn soup, kidney bean ste^i^, spinach, dressed lettuce, peach 
short cake (no cream). 

Wednesday: Split pea soup, pot roast, grated raw potato pancakes, pickles, 
rice pudding, strawberrj' sauce (no milk or cream). 

Thursday: Vegetable soup, baked fish, scalloped potatoes, egg plant salad, 
hominy pudding, fruit sauce. 

Friday: Chicken soup with noodles, gefiUte fish, roast chicken, dressed 
lettuce, carrot and sweet potato zimes, strudel, tea. 

Saturday (supper): Fried fish, cold petshai, cake, tea. 

Sunday (supper): Baked noodles and cheese (cottage), vegetable salad, 
graham cookies, apple sauce, coffee. 

Monday: Sorrel soup, chartreuse, tomato sauce, fried egg plant, sKced 
fresh fruit. 

Tuesday: (Oaten) hafer gritz and potato soup, pea loaf served with carrots 
in cream sauce, cabbage sweet and sour, apple fritters, tea. 

BIBLIOGRAPHY 

Wiener, Judische Speisegesetze, Breslau. 

Kohler, K. In the Jewish Times, German section; Aug.-Sept. 1872. 

Hirsh, S. R. Horeb. 

Friedlander, The Jewish Rehgion, pp. 445-466, London, 1891. 

Kahsch, M. Historical and critical commentary, Leviticus 1-113, London, 
1872. 

Geiger, Gesamelte Schriften, 1,253, et. seq. Berlin, 1875. 

Zapletal, der Totemismus und die Religion, Israels, pp. 81-91, Freiburg, 
1901. 

The following articles in the Jewish Encyclopedia contain valuable infor- 
mation: Animals, clean and unclean; Banquets; Bedikah; Blood; Bread; 



1919] SIL\'ER LINING OF OUR CONSERVATION CLOUD 59 

Cooker>'; Cruelty to animals; Dietarj^ Laws; Dembo, author of Jewish Method 
of Slaughter; Drinking vessels; Eggs; Fasts; Fat; Fish; Food; Fruit; Grace 
at meals; Kasher; Korabka; Mazzah; IMeat Tax; Melihah; Salting of meat; 
Milk; Passover; Forging; Poultry; Shehitah; Swine; Terefah; Vegetarianism; 
Wiener, Adolph. (An article on the Dietary Laws, by a Rabbi. Published 
after his death.) 

There are a number of Jewish cook books on the market. Most of them 
are merely a collection of recipes, many of them taken from other books, 
and adapted to meet the Jewish requirements. I have gotten hold of the 
following, and there may be others: 

The Manual of Jewish and Modem Cookery, by "A Lady;" "With valu- 
able recipes and hints relating to the toilette." Published in 1846. 

The Jewish Cookery Book on Principles of Economy. "Adapted for 
Jewish Housekeepers" by Esther Le\y. 

Continental Dishes for English Tables, •with an appendix on Jewish Cook- 
ery, by G. J. Guinteau. 

Aunt Babettes Cook Book. 

International Jewish Cook Book, by Florence Kreisler Greenbaum. 

Economical Jewish Cookery. Dainty Dinners and Dishes for Jewish 
Families, by Mary Henry, and Kate Halfer. Pubhshed in 1897. 

Modem Orthodox Recipe Book. 

Jewish Cookery Book, by Miss Tattersall, London. 



THE SILVER LINING OF OUR CONSERVATION CLOUD' 

LILLIAN PEEK 
College of Industrial Arls, Denton, Texas 

WTien the United States entered the world war in April, 1917, it was 
evident that not only many of our industrial and commercial pursuits 
would be seriously affected thereby but our personal and indi\'idual 
habits as well. If we were to send large armies of men to already hungry 
Europe some organization must be effected by which we could help feed 
both. An inventory must be taken of our food supplies on hand and 
suggestions for increased production and wiser and more intelligent con- 
sumption made to the general public. 

' Presented at the Texas Home Economics .\ssocialion meeting in Dallas, November 29, 
1918. 



60 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [February 

President Wilson's appointment of a food administrator who was a 
trained executive, a man acquainted with scientific method and at the 
same time possessed of a magnanimous spirit, has been more than justified. 
Petty jealousies have had no place in the food program. Scientific men 
have been consulted in their various fields of specialization, scientific 
surveys have been insisted upon as a basis for any new and seemingly 
drastic recommendations. The leading home economics experts and 
nutrition speciahsts have been called to counsel and the food "dictator" 
has served as a sort of clearing house for all the information thus accu- 
mulated. One of his aims has been to bring all the men and women 
who deal with food problems in trade in close contact with the scientist 
and nutrition specialist in order that each may understand the other's 
point of view, in order that they may work harmoniously with the one 
great end in view — feeding the world. 

The indi\adual housekeeper was led to realize that she must help 
and that she needed advice. Never before had her own settlement of 
culinary problems been so difficult, and adjustment seemed beyond 
her. To whom could she turn for advice in adjusting herself and 
family to the new situation without endangering health or efficiency? 

To the home economics teacher the silver lining of the cloud revealed 
itself. The food conservation campaign was playing directly into her 
hands. The tremendous impetus of necessity created by the war made 
it possible for her to reach, by a quick drive, the goal toward which 
she had been patiently working. The hedge between the school and 
the home was torn down. Every market basket and larder was 
opened to the home economics expert. It was never so easy to as- 
semble an audience to consider home problems — an audience which 
would sit for hours earnestly seeking the guidance of the expert in 
solving her knotty food problems, and incidentally otlier home problems 
almost as important. 

Food conservation measures have not only saved certain staple foods 
for our allies but have worked a revolution of lasting importance in the 
daily food habits of our own nation. No group of people is better able 
to realize the need of such a revolution than a group of home economics 
teachers. Habits have been thrown out the window — an accompUsh- 
ment Mark Twain said was impossible. In many instances at the pres- 
ent time certain foods are appreciated for flavor, whereas before the war 
they were appreciated for sweetness only. I feel safe in making the 
statement that the populace is better fed than ever before because such 



1919] SIL\'ER LINIKG OF OUR CONSERVATION CLOUD 61 

fundamental facts as the importance of milk and succulent vegetables 
and fruits in the diet have been emphasized from the beginning of the 
campaign. Diseases due to faulty diet — diet either deficient in certain 
essential elements or containing a super-abundance of certain elements — 
are bound to decrease, although, so far as I know, there are no figures 
with which to confirm this statement. More attention is being paid 
to the daily menu, the school lunch, and the proper feeding of children, 
and all of this is destined to lower the per cent of the physically unfit. 
Many ungrounded prejudices against certain foods have been broken 
down and appetites have been educated to the master's degree on the 
part of certain individuals of my acquaintance. Foods which prior to 
the war were looked upon with cold disregard now occupy a prom- 
inent place on the weekly menu. 

The new recipes sent out have taken better methods of preparation 
directly into the home. The demonstrations which have been held in 
practically every community have enabled experts to emphasize more 
approved methods along with the use of substitute foods. We have 
accomplished many things with ease under the new regime which in 
normal times would have been difficult to approach and which probably 
never could have been universally popularized. 

Giving has become a habit. We have found a pecuHar satisfaction in 
reahzing that in gi\ing of our means we were helping the great armies of 
the world to \-ictor}-. We have found the same satisfaction in sharing 
our bread and butter with those who were fighting our battles. Educa- 
tion for service — the ke>Tiote of modem education — is an ideal which 
has taken rapid strides during tlie past four years. The conservation 
measures have contributed appreciably to the furtherance of this ideal. 
They have helped also in the shaping of a public opinion which will 
demand a more practical trend in the courses offered in schools toward 
sohing the fundamental problems of man in relation to society. If we 
are alert to our rare opportunities we shall find means of keeping alive 
in the students a sense of responsibility to the community — which in 
its broad sense means the world. The crook in the cane is toward us. 

I find housekeepers intensely interested when I talk to them about 
the three meals a day in terms of food values and body needs. When 
I tell them something of the needs of the child of si.x months, the boy 
of eight years, and the girl of twelve years it never fails to bring a grat- 
ifying response from the audience and ofttimes from the source least 
expected. Mothers are becoming alarmed at the staggering figures on 



62 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [February 

infant mortality, particularly among the artificially fed babies. The 
home economics teacher has unusual opportunities to make capital of 
such interest and organize part-time classes for housekeepers; classes 
which will consider the real home problems that their members bring 
to them. But she must appreciate her responsibility along with her 
opportunities and give out only information based upon the most scien- 
tific research. Food quacks are almost as dangerous as quack doctors 
and I am afraid there are many of them afloat. 

The tardy response of men in meeting the food conservation regula- 
tions was surely based upon lack of information, and is a strong argu- 
ment for the introduction into our school curriculimi of some such 
general course as will acquaint them with food values as well as other 
fundamental problems of the home. Could we not somewhere proxide 
this general course calling it "The Business of the Household" or some 
other general and suitable name — and open it to both boys and girls? 
This course could be made not only interesting but eminently worth 
while because it would be meeting an outstanding need. The methods 
of the Food Administration would help in popularizing such a course. 

The food conservation campaign has brought about a sorting and 
sifting of our courses of study in home economics of an altogether whole- 
some sort. World concepts have played an important part in this 
process. As the searchhght has been turned upon our courses some 
of them have been found adequate while others have been found want- 
ing in many respects. First things have of necessity been placed first 
while many hampering details have been relegated to the background. 
Home economics has occupied a more dignified place in the curriculum. 
Schools and colleges not pre\'iously teaching home economics have 
introduced courses that will often remain; others will introduce work 
as soon as possible, and in the course of events this subject may be 
regarded as essential to every school program as reading, writing, and 
arithmedc. 

As the curtain has been Ufted and we have been allowed to look out 
upon the world food situation, surely no home economics teacher has 
failed to see avenues toward improvement in her methods of teaching. 
No teacher can have clung to the old notebook method of teaching 
whereby the gleanings from college are dealt out to guUible students 
when much more reliable information could be acquired from the new 
and up-to-date books which should be in use by every home economics 



1919] SIL\'ER LINING OF OUR CONSERVATION CLOUD 63 

teacher, to say nothing of the real problems afforded by every day 
living. 

The teacher who is only technically skilled is not the teacher who is 
sought today to fill positions in our schools, but rather the one who is 
professionally trained and whose course of study and experience has 
been sufficiently broad to enable her to see her subject in its true propor- 
tion to other subjects in the curriculum, and who is able to apply educa- 
tional theory in her practice to the same high degree that is demanded 
of the best teachers in other departments of the school. The conserva- 
tion campaign has weighed the teacher in the balance. Has she been 
able to adapt herself to the new situation? If not she is not worthy 
of her position, and should seek other work that she can do better. 

When the real returns from the conservation campaign come in, I 
believe we shall see that instruction has been simplified and made less 
formal and cumbersome, and that there has grown up an appreciation of 
what makes the atmosphere of a real home. More should be done, 
however. Instead of much of the information still "poured into stu- 
dents" they should be given the attitude of mind which will enable them 
to get the information for themselves and adapt it to their own needs. 
Our hbrar>' shelves are conspicuously lacking in informational books. 
Teacher after teacher whom I have visited has answered the question as 
to reference books and magazines with: "Yes, we have two or three cook 
books and Hutchinson's Food and Dietetics, but no magazines." What 
can we expect in the way of results with this paucity of reference material? 
There are many good books and magazines which should be found on 
every home economics library shelf for the background of information 
and the vocabulary which will render the student at least conversant 
with the subject she is supposed to be studying. 

We have as a group allowed ourselves to drift away from real home 
problems. Schools problems have not carried over to the home simply 
because they did not fit in. Menus and recipes, for example, have often 
been too time consuming to render them practical for home use, and too 
much adjustment has been necessary on the part of the student to have 
them carry over. Consequently much time has been lost. The con- 
servation regulations have taught us that every day meals should re- 
ceive much more attention. I would not underestimate the value of 
the formal meals which are generally considered a part of every girl's 
course in foods and cookery, but often they are given to the neglect of 



64 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [February 

well-balanced, well-cooked, and properly served daily meals, a fact to be 
deplored. I believe thoroughly that every home economics teacher 
should spend some time in a real home each year carrjdng on the acti\d- 
ties of the home which the average girl she is teaching will be responsible 
for later on in life, and that this experience should, in so far as possible, 
be in the community in which the girl lives or at least in the state. A 
step of this kind, I believe, would result in a measurable gain in the 
efTectiveness of our teaching. 

Through three summers personal experience in such practice I have 
found myself appreciating the housekeeper's point of view more and 
more. One summer I set aside a week which I called my eflSciency 
week and attempted to reduce to a minimum time-schedule the prep- 
aration and serving of food, and the dishwashing for a family of five. 
When the food conservation campaign was launched and I was privi- 
leged to lecture on the subject to groups of women in the state of Texas 
I found this experience as valuable an asset as any food study course I 
had had, excepting only my nutrition courses. I appreciated to a 
more sympathetic degree the distribution of time, and the necessity of 
reducing the conservation dish to its simplest form if I expected it to 
carry over. 

Now that peace has come, let us realize that our work is just begin- 
ning. The lump has been leavened. Shall we complete the loaf or 
allow the leaven to spend itself and subside leaving the lump in its last 
state worse than its first? Let us grasp the opportunity to further 
democracy in the school and see to it that every man, woman, and child 
is given the opportunity to gain some knowledge of foods, especially as 
related to health, and an appreciation of the other fundamental prob- 
lems of the home. 

As the searchlight is turned upon us let us not be discouraged but see 
the silver lining of the cloud, accept the facts which confront us, and 
with firm determination put new vigor into our home economics work 
which will be time-fast, and wiU lead into paths of greater service — the 
service and confidence which will make all the activities of the home 
fairly "bristle with interest." And let us remember "The field is white 
to the harvest." 



1919] INVERT SUGAR IN FONDANT 65 

FACTORS INFLUENCING THE AMOUNT OF INVERT SUGAR 
IN FONDANT 

AMY L. D.ANIELS AND DOROTHY M. COOK 
Prom the Department of Home Economics, University of Wisconsin 

Good fondant is a creamy mass of sugar of such a consistency that it 
may be easily molded. It should be so finely grained that no crystals 
can be felt when a small portion is rubbed between the iingers or be- 
tween the tongue and the roof of the mouth. When a thin layer is 
held toward the hght, no separate crystals should be visible. A micro- 
scopic examination shows many tiny crystals. 

Success in making fondant consists in completely dissolving the 
sugar, boiHng the resulting syrup until a certain density is reached, and 
then controlling conditions so that recrystallization takes place with 
the formation of tiny crystals. Although typical fondant may be 
made from sugar and water, there is less danger of failure if a small 
amount of either glucose or acid (usually cream of tartar) is added, the 
purpose of the acid being to produce some invert sugar, which, like 
the glucose, interferes with the formation of large crystals. When 
water alone is used, the ratio of water to sugar is often larger than 
-when either glucose or acid is added, for it is generally believed that the 
water acting over a longer period of time at the high temperatures pro- 
duces an appreciable amount of inversion. Some danger attends the 
use of acids, for a too large amoimt, or a small amount acting over a too 
long period, may result in an excess of invert sugar and thus prevent 
the crystallization of the sucrose. Definite proportions of acid, sugar, 
and water have therefore been formulated, which under certain condi- 
tions produce satisfactory results. 

It has been observed that when water, sugar, and add are used the 
same degree of success is not always attained in the various sections 
of the country. For example, fondant made in Massachusetts is less 
likely to "grain" than that made by the same formula in Wisconsin or 
Colorado. The different results have been attributed to atmospheric 
conditions, and in some cases, namely Colorado, to the difference in 
the time it takes the syrups to teach the boiHng temperature. In a 
syrup which begins to boil at 94°C. there may be less inversion than in 
a syrup which begins to boil at 100°C., for not only does the acid act on 
the sugar for a shorter period, but the syrup reaches the desired density 
at a lower temperature. 



66 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [February 

This investigation was undertaken to determine the amount of invert 
sugar present in fondant prepared under various conditions. Samples 
of fondant were made according to the following general plan. 

1. Different amounts of water were used with a constant amount of 
sugar. 

2. Different amounts of water were used with constant amounts of 
sugar and acid. 

3. Different amounts of acid were used with constant amounts of 
sugar and water. 

The sugar mixtures consisting of cane sugar, either tap or distilled 
water, and commercial cream of tartar, when it was included, were 
cooked to a temperature of 113°C. in an open aluminum kettle. In 
order that the amount of heat might be as nearly uniform as possible in 
all the experiments, the kettle was placed a given distance from the 
cone of the flame furnished by a Bunsen burner. During the cooking 
the usual method of washing down the crystals adhering to the sides 
of the pan was omitted, since such a procedure would have changed the 
relation of water to sugar in the mixtures. 

Before testing the samples of fondant were first dried, then pulver- 
ized, and dried again to constant weight. Varying amounts of the 
dried samples (from 0.01 to 0.2 gram, depending upon the amount of 
reducing sugar in the sample) were used in making the tests. In all 
cases duplicate fondant mixtures were prepared and duplicate deter- 
minations were made on each sample. 

The amount of invert sugar was determined by means of the colori- 
metric method of Lewis and Benedict.' In using this method it was 
found necessary, in order to produce a solution with sufficient depth of 
color to match the standard solution, to use in some cases more of the 
fondant than would redissolve in the given amount of water after evap- 
oration of the picric, sodium carbonate mixture. When this dried 
material was made up to standard (10 cc), the slight cloud caused by 
the undissolved cane sugar interfered with the reading. This was 
filtered out before the solution was placed in the colorimetric tube. 

A preliminary test showed that the cane sugar used contained a small 
amount of reducing sugar, 0.29 per cent. Since the purpose of the 
investigation was to determine the total amount of invert sugar in 
fondant, in the tables the reducing sugar in the cane sugar has been 
included in the estimates of the invert sugar. 

'Lewis, R. C. and Benedict, S. R.: Jour. Biol. Chem., 20, (1915), p. 61. 



1919J INVERT SUGAR IN FONDANT 

TABLE 1 
Reducing sugars in fondants made with varying amounts of water 



67 



HDIIBES 
OF EXFEROCEKT 


CANS snOAE 


WATER 


CREAM OF TARTAR 


INVERT SUGAR 


REACTION TO 

ALIZARINE 

SODItTM StJU'HO- 

NATE 




grams 


cc. 


grams 


per cent 




1 


110 


55 




0.322 


.\lkaline 


2 


no 


no 




0.322 


Alkaline 


3 


no 


220 




0.321 


Alkaline 


4 


no 


3j0 




0.322 


Alkaline 



TABLE 2 
Reducing sugars in fondants made with varying amounts of water and constant amounts of acid 



SERIES 


NUMBER OP 
EXTERIKENT 


CANE SUGAR 


WATER 


CREAU 
Ot TARTAR 


INVERT SCG.Ul 


REACTION TO 

ALIZARINE 
SODIUM SUL- 






trams 


CC. 


trams 


per cent 




A 


1* 


110 


55 


0.06t 


0.38 


Alkaline 




2 


no 


no 


0.06 


0.36 


Alkaline 




3 


no 


220 


0.06 


0.32 


.'Mkaline 




4 


no 


330 


0.06 


0.32 


Alkaline 




5 


no 


55t,' 


0.06' 


10.7 


Acid 


B 


1 


no 


55 ■ 


0.12 


1.45 


Acid 




2 

3 


no 
no 


no 


0.12 


1.29 
0.34 


Acid 




220 


0.12 


Alkaline 




4 


no 


330 


0.12 


0.38 


Alkaline 


C 


1 


no 


55 


0.18 


4.31 


Acid 




2 


no 


no 


0.18 


3.31 


Acid 




3 


no 


220 


O.IS 


0.34 


Alkaline 




4 


no 


330 


0.18 


0.36 


Alkaline 



*The proportions frequently given for fondant are 5 cups of sugar, 2 J cups of water, and 
{ teaspoonful of cream of tartar. In Table 2, experiments 1 and 5, one-tenth of these pro- 
portions was used. 

fThe acidity of 0.06 grams of cream of tartar was equivalent to 3.8 cc. N/10 HCL. 

{Distilled water instead of tap water was used. 

TABLE i 
Reducing sugars in fondants made with varying amounts of acid and a constant amount of water 



NUMBER 
OF KXrESUENT 


CANE SUGAR 


WATER 


CREAM OF TARTAR 


INVERT 9UCAR 


REACTION 




trams 


CC. 


trams 


per cent 




1 


no 


no 


0.12 


1.26 


Acid 


2 


no 


no 


0.18 


3.29 


Acid 


3 


no 


no 


24 


4.34 


Acid 


4 


no 


no 


0.60 


8.46 


Acid 


5 


no 


no 


1.20 


16.85 


Acid 



68 



THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS 



[February 



TABLE 4 

Reducing sugars in fondants made with small amounts of water and varying amounts of acid 



OF EXPERIMENT 


CANE SnOAE 


WATER 


CREAM OP TARTA. 


DJVEET SUGAR 


REACTION 




grams 


CC. 


srams 


per cent 




1 


110 


55 


0.06 


0.38 


Alkaline 


2 


no 


55 


0.12 


1.45 


Acid 


.3 


110 


55 


0.18 


4.31 


Acid 


4 


no 


55 


0.24 


7.45 


Acid 


5 


no 


55 


0.30 


9.96 


Acid 



The amounts of the various materials used and the results obtained 
have been summarized in the foregoing tables. 

The results recorded in table 1 where sugar and water only were used 
indicate that no appreciable amount of inversion takes place when 
water and sugar are boiled to a temperature of 113°C. The cane sugar 
used contained 0.29 per cent of reducing sugar, whereas in the fondant 
there was found to be approximately 0.32 per cent, a difference of 0.03 
per cent which is within the limit of experimental error. Fondant made 
with larger proportions of water contained no more reducing sugar than 
that made with smaller amounts. Obviously in making fondant noth- 
ing is to be gained by using larger proportions of water when no acid is 
present. 

In Table 2, series B. and C. constant amounts of sugar and acid 
(0.12 gm. and 0.18 gm., respectively) were used with varying amounts 
of water. Those fondants made with the smaller proportions of water 
contained appreciable amounts of reducing sugars. As the amount of 
water was increased the percentage of invert sugar decreased, until 
there was present an amount equivalent to that in series A, in which 
case much less acid was used, 0.06 gram, or in Table 1 where no acid was 
used. The explanation of these results is apparent when we compare 
the reactions of the various fondants and the amount of invert sugar 
present in the fondants (Table 3)) in which constant amounts of water 
were used with varying proportions of cream of tartar. All fondants 
reacting alkaline contained approximately the same amount of reduc- 
ing sugar; fondants reacting acid contained different amounts of reduc- 
ing sugars; when the water was constant, the per cent of invert sugar 
was proportional to the amount of acid added. The tap water used 
contained a hardness of 315 parts per million, — quite enough to neu- 
tralize the cream of tartar even when considerably more was used than 
is called for in standard recipes. 



1919] INVERT SUGAR IN FONDANT 69 

In order to determine the approximate percentage of invert sugar 
which might be expected to be present when soft water and cream of 
tartar are used, fondant was made with distilled water and the usual 
amount of cream of tartar (Table 2, Series A, 5). This fondant con- 
tained shghtly more reducing sugar than was present in fondant made 
with the usual amount of tap water and five times the amount of cream 
of tartar generally considered sufficient (Table 4, 5). 

The results of the investigation point to the following conclusions: 

1. WTien sugar and water are boiled to a temperature of 113°C. no 
appreciable amount of inversion takes place. Increasing the amount 
of water and therefore lengthening tlie time of boiling does not influence 
the amoimt of reducing sugar in fondant. 

2. Fondant made with sugar, water, and cream of tartar contains a 
variable amount of reducing sugars, depending upon the amoimt and 
character of the water. When distilled or soft water is used fondant 
may contain a considerable proportion (10 per cent) of invert sugar. 

3. The alkalinity of even moderately hard water may be sufficient to 
neutralize the cream of tartar in standard recipes. 

4. If cream of tartar is to be used in fondant making, there should 
be worked out for each locahty definite proportions of sugar, water, and 
cream of tartar. These will vary in the different sections of the coun- 
try, depending upon the degree of hardness of the water. 

5. When hard water is used for making fondant the amoimt of water 
used for washing down the crystals which accumulate on the sides of 
the pan should be controlled. 

6. More nearly constant results will be obtained in fondant if the 
glucose is added directly, rather than produced by the action of acid 
in the process of making the fondant. 



Thrift is good management of the business of living. 



70 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [February 

THE CONTENT OF A COLLEGE COURSE ON CHILD 
WELFARE' 

ALICE RAVENHILL 
Director, School of Home Economics, Utah Agricultural College 

It has been well said that vital statistics are the bookkeeping of the 
community; for it is not until the registration of births, marriages, and 
deaths becomes nation wide and the time limits for such registration 
are rigidly enforced by law that reliable vital statistics become possible, 
or that the actual health condition of the population can be estimated. 
Though this country has not yet attained to this perfection of national 
bookkeeping, the partial information now available is of a character to 
stimulate efforts directed to the improvement of the national physique 
and to the prevention of much mortality and ill health, especially among 
the young and again during middle life. A great public service has been 
rendered by the Equitable Life Assurance Society in the publication and 
free circulation of its bulletin entitled "The War and The Trend of 
National Vitality," where unassailable evidence is given of the unpala- 
table fact that among civilized nations this is the only one in which the 
death rate is increasing above the age of 45, the causes being found in 
premature decline of resistance to organic disease. Between the last two 
census years, 1900 to 1910, the death rate from this group of causes in- 
creased 28 per cent in the population over the age of thirty, and there 
is no reason to believe this has in any way diminished since that date. 

Among predisposing factors associated with this decline in national 
vitality is listed the tendency to overtax the nervous system through- 
out life. The heart, kidneys, and lungs, that is the organs themselves, 
would respond to all reasonable demands made upon their muscular 
and other tissues over a much longer period; but it appears that it is 
tlie controlling nervous system which is prematurely exhausted by 
unsatisfactory, but controllable, customs within and witliout the homes 
of the people. The reports of school medical officers indicate that 
already in grade and high schools signs of the overtaxation of the chil- 
drens' nervous systems are unduly prominent; and again their opinions 
are endorsed by the disquieting proportion of rejections among young 

• Presented at the Eleventh Annual Meeting of the .\merican Home Economics Associa- 
tion, Chicago, June, 1918. 



1919J COLLEGE COURSE ON CHILD WELFARE 71 

men, chiefly of college age, called to serve in army and navy; }'oung 
men stiU of an age to be the direct product of the homes of the nation. 

Meanwhile, the Children's Bureau has furnished equally unassailable 
proofs of the distressing, yet chiefly preventable, loss of life during 
the pre-natal and immediately post-natal months, which annually im- 
poverishes the population; and of the serious physical and mental results 
to the surviving children of prevalent infections, such as measles, whoop- 
ing cough, or diphtheria; or of more widespread, though less recognized 
causes, such as defective feeding, insufficient sleep, precocious excite- 
ment, or premature labor. 

To combat these serious menaces to national efficiency and to culti- 
vate a health conscience in respect of the right rearing of human life 
during its years of helpless dependency, the National Council of Defense 
proclaimed a Children's Year and in conjunction with the Children's 
Bureau of the Department of Labor inaugurated a comprehensive cam- 
paign of pubUc instruction in the right care of child hfe. Once initiated, 
however, this campaign must be continuous and progressive, till the 
inheritance and maintenance of sound health is assured to every indi- 
vidual in the population. To attain this objective, however, teachers 
must be carefully prepared and students thoroughly equipped with 
sound knowledge of the contributory factors or the requisite far reach- 
ing change of domestic and social habits will not be accomplished; for 
nothing less than a re-formation of much conventional opinion, nothing 
less than radical changes in many century old habits, will permit the 
attainment of the objects in view. And what are these objects? 

1. Efficiency — personal, domestic, industrial, civic, and national; that 
is, such a preponderating proportion of a high quality of human mate- 
rial that the work of the world will be achieved with the minimum 
expenditure of energy, time, material, or health; and the human race 
itself will be freed from the domination of debihty, disease, and pre- 
mature death. 

2. Economy — through the wiser and more judicious use of the great, 
responsible gift of hfe. Readers of the various reports prepared by 
medical health officers, medical school inspectors, visiting nurse organiza- 
tions, antituberculosis societies, in addition to statistics published by 
the various Bureaus under the Federal Government, cannot but be 
alive to the appalling extravagance in respect of human life active at 
all ages; though, even when anxiety is aroused on this account, few 
realize how very far reaching, enduring, and costly to the majority who 



72 THE jotTRNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [Febmaiy 

survive are the results of conditions fatal to the minority. These re- 
sults assume myriad forms of physical, and whatjs worse, mental dis- 
abilities, liable to handicap the individual throughout his hfe. Such 
extravagance can and must be checked and without inexcusable delay. 

3. Education of the public. The population as a whole is still imbued 
with the faith that health is a purely personal concern, a possession to 
be abused or squandered at the whim of the owner. As a matter of 
fact each individual is answerable to the community for the contribu- 
tions he makes to the welfare and prosperity of the nation; his value is 
to be estimated by his ci\'ic worth, not by his personal attainments. 
The new education will insist that the cultivation of health is a public 
duty and that preventable sickness is a dereliction of such duty. 

Further, out of date fatahsm, which accepts as mevi table premature 
death and preventable accidents or disease, must yield to the con\'iction 
Lhat modem science makes man the master of conditions, not their 
slave; that all liberty and political rights carry with them responsibihty 
for the intelligent utilization of the opportunities for progress. The 
fund of information now at our disposal upon the nature of mankind 
and the influence upon that nature of the nurture it receives removes 
any excuse for the perpetuation of conditions based upon ignorance, 
apathy, convention, or false standards of economy. The tools for 
reform are ready to hand, it remains only to acquire the skill needful 
for their utilization. These tools are almost exclusively those already 
employed in laying the foundation for the group of applied arts known 
as household or home economics; for household economics cannot be 
considered apart from a study of the characteristics and requirements 
of that form of life — the human — which it aims to benefit and protect. 

When plamiing, therefore, the introduction of a course on the Care of 
Children into the schedule of our home economics students we find the 
foundation for this study already laid — biology, physiology, chemistry, 
physics, bacteriology, psychology, sociology, history, and economics, 
all serve as prerequisites equally for the one as for the other, tj, and, 
I confess I lay great emphasis upon that if, attention be given in the 
study of anatomy and physiology to the marked differences in structure 
and relative proportions of the various systems of the body during the 
process of growth, and to the fact that physical growth, with the asso- 
ciated instability of growing tissues, is not complete till toward twenty- 
five years of age; for it is this long enduring condition of immaturity, 
it is this irregularity in the growth of parts, which renders the young 



1919] COLLEGE COLTRSE ON CHILD WELFARE 73 

child SO highly susceptible to infections, so ill-adapted to labor, so 
injuriously affected by faulty conditions of life, so incapable of adult 
capacity for self control. 

Biological studies must extend also to include recent reliable eugenic 
findings. Please note the word "reliable;" though it is to be hoped 
that we have now passed beyond the very dangerous stage of prema- 
ture generalizations. I attach great importance to forcible, though 
restrained, emphasis being laid upon the responsibilities of joint parent- 
hood and the duty to future generations of a thoughtful selection of a 
co-partner in parenthood, which may well be illustrated from the records 
of eugenic research. Experience shows me that no better approach 
can be made to the study of maternal problems and precautions during 
the prenatal development of an infant than by tracing the phases of 
adolescence in girlhood, and giving a sketch of the unfolding of the new 
powers as well as of the process by which provision for maternity is first 
made and then kept active. The almost pathetic desire and apprecia- 
tion of such instruction carries with it, to me, on each recurring occasion, 
a grievous reproach for our neglect to meet this natural demand for 
assistance in the past. Evidence that the spirit in which this informa- 
tion is received is purely wholesome, is found in the desire to bring older 
relatives to share it in these classes, and to prepare, as far as may be, to 
pass on the informarion with accuracy and judgment. 

A good biological perspective is highly advantageous, because it 
links the physical characteristics and requirements of human life with 
their simpler manifestations in lowlier organisms; in the study of which 
the susceptibihty to injury, warping, or death, in the early phases of 
existence, is more obvious and more emphasized than in human anat- 
omy and physiology. 

I attach importance also to a good historical perspective of the place 
of the child in human progress, which explains at least some of our 
present day problems, and illustrates vividly the results of ignorance 
upon the human stock. 

When planning, therefore, a college course on The Care of Child Life, 
it is advisable to afford opportunities to link it up at many points with 
the previous study of biology, sociology, and history; for particularly 
at this present time I believe it to be impressive and stimulating to 
provide such a background for the students. It seems to dignify a 
subject with which it is falsely assumed every "true woman" is instinc- 
tively familiar. 



74 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [February 

In the next place, I hold it of primary importance to select instructors 
who will give prominence to normal phases of growth and development 
from conception to maturity, and to the rich potentialities inherent in 
human nature when unchecked by adverse conditions; who will select 
material illustrative of these aspects and possibilities, rather than divert 
attention to the study of the abnormal, defective, and delinquent. This 
study must find a place, but it should be subordinate to the other. 

In the third place, the course should afford scope for practical demon- 
stration, direct observation and, if possible, personal practice. For 
these purposes there should be good provision for illustrative material; 
a practice house, where the general care of a child's food and surround- 
ings can be tried out as well as discussed; regular field work, in day 
nursery or kindergarten, to gain famiharity in the handhng of little 
children as well as opportunity to study temperaments and personal 
idiosyncrasies and last but not least a good reference library. 

As regards subject matter, this at present would advisedly vary. 
The point of view of the organizer, the length of course, the preparation 
of students, and other factors must be taken into account. I have 
taught the subject for twenty years to many types of students and have 
worked out certain general principles for my own guidance; these with 
all diffidence I herewith submit, encouraged to do so only by the quite 
wonderful and enthusiastic interest these tentative efforts have aroused 
on the two continents where it has been my responsible privilege to 
make them. 

If the course be short, say two periods a week for one quarter only, I 
organize the subject matter more or less as follows ; for so far I hold the 
presentation of a comprehensive review to be as important, if not more 
so, than a few details. 

(1) General characteristics and requirem.ents of life, with special 
reference to young organisms; (2) ResponsibiUties of parenthood and 
the meaning of infancy; (3) Phases of prenatal development; (4) Spe- 
cial needs of infancy; (5) Peculiarities of physical organizations through- 
out childhood; (6) The mental organizations of a child; (7) Nutrition 
in childhood; (8) Nurtare in childhood; (9) Predisposition and environ- 
ment as factors in development; (10) How to study a child; (11) The 
preservation of health in children; (12) Adolescence and its problems. 

If, on the other hand, three quarters are available for the course, I 
believe it should be introduced by a brief review of the biological his- 
tory of the himian race, and, if possible, a similar review of recent teach- 



1919] COLLEGE COXJRSE ON CHILD WELFARE 75 

ings on racial influences, which lead on to a study of eugenic factors in 
human efficiency, and individual responsibility for future generations. 
This general introduction can, if preferred, be entrusted to a specialist 
in this subject matter. Parenthood — the relation of adolescent con- 
ditions and care to successful maternity, the prenatal and postnatal 
care of mother and infant is thus first presented in the hght of its na- 
tional importance, which at present calls for very definite emphasis; 
and the far reaching results of personal selfishness and indulgence may 
be clearly seen. A study of the phases of growth during childhood 
necessitates attention to important details of physiological and ana- 
tomical development, and must embrace the right care of the nervous 
system at different ages, opening up the unsuspected causes for the 
anxious increase of abnormaUties and of premature death. The nurture 
of the child follows on fitly, covering as it does all the requirements for 
healthy growth of mind and body. This must be consistently linked 
up with the influences of environment, under which reference must 
again be made to the increase of juvenile delinquency in its nimierous 
forms. The place of play and of physical education; the need for the 
careful cultivation of physical and moral habits, and for training in 
home duties, must be associated with these details of nurture and sur- 
roundings; and will in their turn open up the scope of home and school 
training and the necessary provision of sound sanitary conditions. 

I have always found great interest aroused by brief digressions into the 
methods of great educators in relation to school hygiene, and into the 
history of child labor, of physical training, and of child hygiene. Such 
digressions are amply justified by the links they forge with the past, 
and the evidence they afford that the problems now confronting the 
civilised world are no new "fads," but serious menaces to human effi- 
ciency, hitherto unchecked from want of scientific assistance. The 
characteristics of adolescence must on no acccount be omitted; their 
study seems to prove most helpful to every one and is essential to the 
roimding up of the course. 

Health — its importance and the conditions which ensure its conser- 
vation and maintenance — is the ke>Tiote of all my teaching: the causes 
which interfere with and destroy it must, of course, be passed in review, 
but I believe they should be assigned a subsidiary position, until we 
have fostered as vivid an interest in the normal as in the abnormal; 
imtil the morbid faith in the necessity for disease has given place to 
courageous active application of health principles. It is for the parents, 



76 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [Februaty 

the teachers, the social workers, to preach and practice and preserve 
health, to prevent disease not to curb its ravages; so, while sufficiently 
infonned to recognize the symptoms of unfortunately common ailments 
and while trained in all legitimate methods of prevention, the duty of 
health, the serious reflection on home methods if iU health prevail in a 
household, call, in my opinion, at this era for particular emphasis. 

The control and ordering of domestic conditions to secure national 
prosperity and progress rest very largely in the hands of our women; 
the movement to include in their special preparation for this work the 
knowledge how to order to these ends the early stages of human life is 
of the greatest promise for the future of our race. To advance this 
future, if but one step, towards our goal was the motive which encour- 
aged me to lay before you the fruits, however immature, of a long 
experience. 



WHAT IT TAKES TO PRODUCE MILK 

One of the most attractive exhibits of the Dairy Division, United 
States Department of Agriculture, at the National Dairy Show, was 
one in which a good Holstein cow was shown standing in a modern 
stall. Behind her was a calf in a small pen, and a large bottle ten feet 
high representing 6915 pounds of milk, a little over 3200 quarts, the 
amount of milk produced in one year by a good Holstein cow well fed. 

Adjoining this was a stack of hay representing the 2632 poimds 
required to feed the cow one year. Sacks of other feeds represented 
1152 pounds of purchased feed such as cotton-seed meal or oil meal, 
besides the home-grown feeds such as com, 843 poimds. Dairy cows 
in the northern part of the United States have to be sheltered from 
three to five months in the year and bedding is required to keep them 
clean; so in neat piles there were 720 pounds of straw bedding. 

The whole exhibit visualized to the visitor the amount of milk a good 
cow will produce and the amount of feed it takes to enable her to live 
a year and produce this large amoimt of milk. 

The figures on which this exhibit was based were obtained from in- 
vestigations carried on in one of the prominent dairj' regions of Indiana. 
Feeding practices there are typical of those largely followed in the 
great dairy sections of the nation. 



FOR THE HOMEMAKER 

THE FARM BUREAU AND HOME DEMONSTRATION WORK' 

C. B. SMITH 
United States Department of Agriculture 

The Farm Bureau is a relatively new national institution. It is an 
institition promoted by the extension forces of the Federal Department 
of Agriculture and the State Agricultural Colleges for the purpose of 
more effectively promoting efficiency in agriculture and home economics 
through extension work. Up to July 1917 there were possibly not more 
than 300 Farm Bureaus in the entire United States although there were 
at that time approximately 1000 county agents in as many counties 
and probably 400 Home Demonstration Agents. At this time (Jime 
1918) the number of Farm Bureaus in the United States has increased 
to about 1200. At the same time there are approximately 2500 coun- 
ties organized with county agents, 1200 of which also have home demon- 
stration agents. 

Not every county therefore which has a coimty agent or a home 
demonstration agent is necessarily a Farm Bureau County. 

What then is a Farm Bureau? 

Our first Farm Bureau, in the northern states, consisted of simply a 
county agent with an office room and with salary and expenses paid by 
a Chamber of Commerce or other business interests, who solicited the 
work, with the Department of Agriculture cooperating. The College 
of Agriculture of the state furnished good will and advice. This agent 
at the outset was to study local agricultural conditions and put on the 
forms of demonstration work that seemed to be needed. 

The farmers and their wives were not consulted in this plan, the 
CoUege of Agriculture put no money into it, and assumed no responsi- 
bility for it, and the Federal Department of Agriculture paid only part 
of the bill. Later the Chamber of Commerce in order, as it beUeved, 

'Presented at the Eleventh Annual Meeting of the American Home Economics Asso- 
ciation, Chicago, June, 1918. 

77 



78 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [February 

the better to promote good feeling between rural and urban interests 
made arrangements for farm membership in the Chamber of Commerce, 
and the activities of the county agent employed were supposed to be 
directed by this farmer membership working through an agricultural 
committee. 

This type of Farm Bureau organization with minor modifications and 
often with county financial support was adopted during the period 
1911-1913 in more than 100 counties in the northern and western states. 

Not only was the Bureau headed up largely in the Chamber of Com- 
merce or by business interests, but the plan of work seemed to be built 
on the idea of helping the farmer rather than teaching the farmer to 
help himself. Farm women were not recognized in the organization. 

While the fundamental idea back of the Farm Bureau — viz., the 
employment of a well trained agricultural agent to work with the farm- 
ers in the improvement of agriculture gained support quite generally 
throughout the entire United States, there was a fly or two in the oint- 
ment. The farmers themselves did not seem to snuggle up to the plan 
as they apparently should and were expected to do. There was not 
much open opposition but the response of the rank and file of the farm- 
ers was not hearty. Ihey were inclined to sit back and watch the 
business man teach them how to farm. In some rural counties where 
the farmers were given an opportunity to vote on the proposition, it did 
not carry. 

Meanwhile increased appropriations to the United States Depart- 
ment of Agriculture and the enactment of the Smith-Lever Law pro- 
viding extension funds to each of the State Agricultural Colleges enabled 
the Dei^artment and the Colleges to increase the amount of extension 
funds put into the Farm Bureau enterprise and to assume a larger 
responsibility in directing the work. The need for divorcing the work 
from business interests or even the appearance of commercial influence 
bef:ame increasingly apparent. If the F"arm Bureau was to receive the 
full support of the people for whom it was previously designed, it must 
be organized and ofTjcered by the farmers themselves, liusiness inter- 
ests might aid the work but farm interests should lead and direct. 

Toward the close of the year 1916 and at the beginning of 1917 a little 
money became available to the Federal Department and State CJoJIeges 
of Agriculture of the Northern and Western States for the employment 
of a woman agent to work with rural women in extension work on the 
same general plan as the work of the county agent was carried on with 
men. 



1919] FARM DIRKAU ANO HOME PKMONSTRATION WORK 7<) 

This brought m new problems as to just what tJiis woman's work 
should be — who sliould direct it; what part tlie women of the county 
should take in the matter; whetlier or not it sliould be reg-arded as a 
part of the work of tlie Farm Bureau; what tlie relations of the wom;ui 
agent should be to tlie county agent. 

These questions were being leisurely discussed and worked out when 
in April, 1917, war was declared wiUi Cienn;ui[y and in the following 
August some four million dollars were appropriateil by Congress for 
the immediate expansion of our county agent system to practically 
everj' county of tlie United States and for tlie ex|>ansion of woman's 
work to approximately half the counties of the country and all of the 
more important cities. 

At that time there were about 500 county agents in the nortliern and 
western states, and something like 15 women agents, most of them 
recently appointed. In tlie Soutli tliere were about 700 county agents 
and 350 or 4(X) women agents but only a very limited development of 
Fanii Bureaus. In the nortJiern and western states about 800 new 
counties were to be orgimized for the support of men's work, anil the 
women's work was to be expanded to about OOO comities. 

The organization of so large a number of counties in so short a period 
of time made it imperative that a stantlard method of organization be 
employed. 

These factors seemed to stand out most clearly in county organization 
and extension work: Development is from within out. Strengtli conies 
from doing things yourself. The farmer himself is best able to study 
his own business, redirect his own work and develop his own institutions. 
He must assume responsibility. Women's work must be recognized. 
Local financial support must be obtained. 

A new point of view with reference to extension work as a whole 
had been slowly evolving, somewhat as follows: 

The agricultural colleges with their experiment stations are research 
institutions. The Federal Departjnent of Agriculture is a research in- 
stitution. The farmers of the country fostered the movement that 
created botli of tliese institutions. The fanners created tliese institu- 
tions because they wanted lo a\ail themselves of the benefits of research 
work in agriculture, home economics, and rural problems. 

These research institutions have justified the farmer's expectation of 
their value. 'I'hcy have tliscovered many helps to agriculture and the 
fann home. There is everv reason [o l)eli<\e that tiuv will lontinue 



80 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [February 

to discover important facts in agriculture and that they will always 
have messages to take to farmers — in agronomy, in animal husbandry, 
in dairying, in soil management, in home economics, and like matters. 

The trouble has been how to get these messages effectively to every 
farm home. The bulletin, the report, the lecture, the press have all 
been helpful means, but they have not fully sufficed. The expense 
involved prohibits these institutions from personally carrying the mes- 
sage to the last man on his own farm. Some form of local organization 
is needed to do this — a kind of organization that can take any message 
from anywhere, in either the art or the science of agriculture or home 
economics, and transmit it into effective application on every farm in 
every rural community everywhere. Such an organization competent 
to render such a service is our present conception of a Farm Bureau. 

In its physical make-up, it is a county wide organization with a Farm 
Bureau President, Vice-President, Secretary, and Treasurer; a county- 
wide executive committee consisting of these officers and five or six 
additional members each of which is chairman of a county-wide com- 
mittee in charge of a line of work ; local committees in every community 
of the county; and a membership of 500-1200 men and women definitely 
identified with rural life. 

Such an organization must be permanent because the College of Agri- 
culture and the Department of Agriculture are permanent, and these 
institutions of the farmer will always have agricultural and home mat- 
ters of importance to extend based on their research work. The local 
agriculture, which is mobile and changing, needs constant study if the 
best practices are to be maintained constantly by all the community. 

The Farm Bureau may or may not employ a county agent, a home 
demonstration agent, or a boys' and girls' club agent. It may employ 
any one, none, all three, or more, though it is encouraged to employ all 
three if funds are available. 

The big work of the Farm Bureau centers around the development of 
an agricultural and home program of work for the county as a whole 
and for each individual community as well. This program of work is 
decided upon at an annual meeting of all the Farm Bureau members. 
The men guided in part by the county agent lead in the development 
of the agricultural program of work. The women guided in part by the 
home demonstration agent lead in the development of the program of 
work for the home. When the members of the Farm Bureau have thus 
decided for themselves what they want to stress in the way of agricul- 



1919] FARM BUREAU AND HOME DEMONSTRATION WORK 81 

ture and home economics a committee headed up by a member of the 
executive committee aided by a community committee man in each 
community of the county that wants to put the work on is put in charge 
of the work and it is up to that committee to find demonstrators, take 
charge of the field meetings, when held, assemble the results of the 
demonstrations and make a final report on the work. 

The men and women members sitting together, voting together, 
determine upon the entire county program. They together determine 
whether or not to cooperate with the State College of Agriculture and 
Federal Department of Agriculture in the employment of a county 
agent, a home demonstration agent, or a club leader. These coopera- 
tively employed agents if chosen become essentially technical advisers 
to county and community committeemen. It is their business each in 
his respective field to see that the whole machinery is kept trued up and 
maintained in efhcient working order. Their big job is to see that each 
county or community committeeman is thoroughly informed as regards 
the work such committeeman or local leader is to do, and that they 
extend that information to everyone in the community needing it. 

The Farm Bureau is not strong on the social side. It is fundamen- 
tally a business organization. Its purpose is to get better agricultural 
and home economics practices estabUshed in the lives of the people. 
Where the county agent has been called upon to furnish suggestions and 
take considerable part in social meetings his time has been so absorbed 
week days, nights, and Sundays that his real work of aiding farmers in 
the improvement of their agriculture has been weakened. The prob- 
abiUty of this pro\ang true in home demonstration work needs to be 
carefully considered. 

Looking to the future we feel confident that the farmers of the coun- 
try are going to estabUsh in every agricultural county of the United 
States of America a permanent public extension organization. 

We think they will be willing to do this because taxes for the work 
are replaced many fold by increased incomes and a much richer rural 
life resulting from the work. 

Probably this county extension organization will usually be known 
as the County Farm Bureau. We think it will have a permanent 
annual budget and will cooperate universally with the state and nation 
in the employment of a county agent, a home demonstration agent, and 
a boys' and girls' club agent, each practically coordinate in their respec- 
tive fields of action but cooperating closely in carrying out a common 



82 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [February 

program of development based upon real needs as determined by rural 
people themselves. Such is our conception of the modem Farm Bureau. 
In the first period of its development it was a Farm Bureau organized 
largely by business interests for farmers; in the second period it was a 
Farm Bureau organized by farmers for farmers, with the employment 
of a man agent; in the third period it is a Farm Bureau organized on 
a pubUc and permanent basis by the farm family for the farm family, 
with the employment of a man agent, a woman agent, a club agent. 



DOES LUXURIOUS EXPENDITURE GIVE EMPLOYMENT TO 
LABOR? 

R. G. BLAKEY 

Professor of Economia, University of Minnessola 

We see in these days, especially since the close of the war, many 
advertisements urging that we buy this or that luxury because it will 
give employment to labor. Even before the war many people had the 
idea that the giving of extravagant banquets and the spending of money 
lavishly, especially on the part of the rich, were desirable because they 
kept many people busy. Many laborers have had somewhat the 
same idea, exemplified in their efforts to limit the amount which any 
man can produce, thinking that thereby there will be more work created 
or left for others. While there is a shadow of truth in all of these ideas, 
the underlying and principal notion is, for the most part, fallacious. 

The spending for luxuries does give employment to labor, but both 
in the long run and immediately such expenditure has usually less ad- 
vantage for labor than the spending of money on more useful things, 
or than the saving of money. Money saved is not idle. Ordinarily, it 
is either invested directly in houses, or machines, or factories, or depos- 
ited in savings banks, or with life insurance companies, or other insti- 
tutions which lend it to business men for the construction of railroads, 
or houses, or irrigation enterprises, or other projects. The production 
of these forms of capital gives as much employment to labor in the 
present as do the production of luxuries consumed at once. These forms 
of capital, since they, too, are of further advantage to labor, mean 
instruments which produce clothing and food and other consumption 
goods in large quantities and hence cheaper consumption goods for 
labor in the future. 



1919] LUXURIOUS EXPENDITURE AND LABOR 83 

Another false notion connected witli the idea of limiting output and 
making work by luxurious expenditure is the implied belief that there 
is just a certain quantity of work to be done, no more and no less. As 
a matter of fact man's wants are indefinitely large. His wants increase 
even faster than his income. As soon as he can satisfy his primary 
needs for food and clothing, he has other wants. He Ukes better kinds 
of food, better kinds of clothing, better houses, better furniture, pictures, 
music, automobiles, yachts, aeroplanes. In fact if he could double his 
production, his wants would increase sufficiently to use up everything 
that he could produce. 

WTiat too many people do not understand is that wages in general 
are not increased by Umiting output and hence making work for more 
laborers, but by increasing output and hence making the employer more 
able to pay higher wages; not because he is philanthropic and willing 
to pay merely because the workers produce more, but because other 
employers are in competition with him and will pay them more if they 
produce it. Of course tliis assumes competition among employers and 
is not true when there is not free competition in bidding for labor, or 
when there is not mobihty of labor so that it can go freely from one 
employment or place to another. 

Saving, therefore, which really means wise spending, means just as 
much employment for labor and ultimately better conditions for labor 
than does foolish spending. Still further, the more all of us produce 
the more we shall have to spend in the present as well as in the future 
and the better we can take care of the needs of both the present and 
the future. 

The great difficulty in meeting these fallacies, which are very com- 
monly held, is that there are individual cases which are real exceptions. 
It is true that often these ideas are not fallacious when only a short- 
sighted view is taken, or when only the individual is considered. But 
all of these ideas are contrary to the interests of society as a whole and 
labor as a whole, although they may be to the temporary advantage of 
society and, possibly, to the ultimate advantage of an individual. But 
this is no reason why society should encourage these non-social prac- 
tices. To take an extreme case, it may be to the interest of a certain 
individual to steal or murder. In fact, it may be to his permanent 
interest to do so if he can escape unpunished, though this is doubtful, 
but no one would argue on that account that it is best that society 
should continue to let him rob and murder. 



EDITORIAL 

New Conditions and New Duties. Robert Louis Stevenson's phrase 
"The world is so full of a number of things" is more than ever apphca- 
ble to the home economics world today. Not only are the things 
that we have always considered the main part of our work Just as press- 
ing as ever, but there are constantly arising new plans and new efforts 
that we feel belong to us just as truly as to those that originated them. 
Americanization is one of these, for it is only as the home is American- 
ized, in the best sense, that the man of foreign birth can really fulfill his 
part, in the best way, as a citizen. 

The health campaign that is being undertaken jointly by several 
different agencies with the effort to create a health department in the 
Federal government also lies well within our field. The welfare of the 
child, the prevention of disease by right living, the setting of standards 
of health in the home, all these are without question the concern of 
home economics. That the thrift campaign is partly ours also is empha- 
sized by the fact that the Treasury has asked home economics to take 
a definite share in it, though, of course, we ourselves needed no such 
recognition to remind us that the home is not only the place where 
thrift is practiced, but the place where it is inculcated in the habits 
of the rising generation. 

The Council of the American Home Economics Association at its 
meeting in Baltimore recognized its concern with these phases of public 
work by passing the following resolutions. 

Resolved, That the Council of the American Home Economics Association 
on behalf of the Association membership, offers the cooperation of this body 
of trained workers in the projected campaign of the U. S. Treasury on the 
right use of money. The Council further ventures to urge upon those re- 
sponsible for this campaign the very great importance of restricting the hst 
of officially authorized speakers in this campaign to men and women who are 
adequately prepared by training and e.xperience for such a task. From the 
experience of its members, who come from every state in the Union, the Asso- 
ciation has learned the grave danger of employing speakers who have no 
fundamental knowledge of economics or e.xperience in adapting this knowl- 
84 



191 9J EDITORIAL 85 

edge to family and personal expenditure, and who, with the best intentions 
and fine patriotism, may, because of their ignorance, discredit the campaign 
and those who promote it. 

Resolved, That the American Home Economics Association, in common with 
all organizations working for the advancement of public welfare, feels both its 
field of effort and the emphasis of its work to be modified by new conditions. 
In view of this fact the Association pledges itself to special efforts within its 
own field by lajing strong emphasis upon all its agencies for the promotion of 
health, not only of the child but also of the adult, both by the addition if 
necessary, of special courses, and also by cordial cooperation with state and 
national agencies working to this end. 

Resolved, That, in view of the world citizenship we are now called upon to 
share, it is encumbent upon those responsible for the training of others to 
develop in them an intelligent and sympathetic attitude toward foreign-born 
peoples in order that work among them may be more effective. To this end 
it is suggested that a study be made, either formal or informal, of the domes- 
tic manners and customs of other races and peoples, their origin and intention. 

Methods of Americanization. Jane Addams has long ago reminded 
us that the foreigners that come to our doors have as much to contrib- 
ute to us as we have to give to them. Certainly we can neither give nor 
take without knowledge, without an understanding of their point of 
view, without the sympathetic attitude toward their problems that can 
come only from familiarity with their customs and habits. 

It is with special interest then that we have received from Miss 
Breckinridge of the University of Chicago and the Chicago School of 
Civics and Philanthropy the following outline of a course of study that a 
group of students in the University suggest might be embodied in the 
curricula of home economics departments and departments of education 
to inform students concerning the practices, habits, and attitudes of 
the leading national groups and to prepare the students for intimate 
and helpful contacts. 

Miss Breckinridge writes: 

A very large proportion of our population is composed of persons who were 
either born in other countries or who are the children of foreign born parents. 
Many of our foreign born come from countries in which another language 
than English is spoken and in which educational opportunities are limited. 
On arrival in this country they therefore tend to form segregated national 
groups and to enter occupations requiring little or no skill. Their wages 
have in the past been very low and their living conditions hostile to sound 



86 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [February 

physical or social development. They bring with them the attitudes and 
practices of the old country and are often allowed to hve in surroundings less 
favorable than those from which they came, without receiving such assis- 
tance as could enable them to modify their environment. The conditions of 
bad housing, neglected streets and alleys, lack of play-space, high prices for 
foods they have been accustomed to growing rather than buying, are hostile 
especially to child hfe. The various social agencies that come into contact 
with them are often quite ignorant both of their earUer habits and practices 
and of the difSculties under which they labor. The teacher of home eco- 
nomics, the visiting housekeeper of the charitable society, and the pubhc 
health nurse enjoy especially rich opportunities of bridging the gap that 
separates such groups from each other and from the older American commu- 
nity. Such assistance seems the basis for true Americanization and seems 
due to homes from which boys went to serve in the A. E. F. and to. which 
they wiU return as "veteran" soldiers. 

OUTLINE AND REFERENCES 

1 . Status of the American Family 

2. Status of the Foreign Family in the Old Country as Represented by 

Selected Groups 

a. The "Older" Immigration 

1) Irish. The Fhght from Famine 

2) German. The Quest for Constitutional Freedom 

3) Scandinavian and Other Northern Groups 

References: Daniels, Home Life in Norway 
Reade, Finland and the Finns 

b. The "New" Immigration 

1) Polish 

References: Thomas and Znaniecki, The Polish Peasant 
Hill, Poland 

2) Bohemians and Moravians (Czecko-Slovaks) 

References: Balch, Our Slavic Fellow-Citizens 

Sterner, On the Trail of the Immigrant 

3) Magyars and South Slavs 

Reference: Alden, Hungary of Today (1909) 

4) ItaUans 

Reference: King and Oakey, Italy Today 

5) Russians 

References: Berard, The Russian Empire and Czarism 
Kennard, The Russian Peasant 
Haenen and Stewart, Provincial Russia 



1919] EDITORIAL 87 

6) The Turk 

References: Cobb, The Real Turk 

Gamett, Turkish Life in To\vn and Country 

7) The Mexican 

Reference: De Lara and Pinchon, The Mexican People 

8) The Japanese 

References: MiUis, Japanese Problem in the United States 
GuUck, The American Japanese Problem 
Selection should be made from among these groups on the basis of the 
population of the community in which the institution is located; and with 
the aid of these and other sources, the selected groups should be studied as to 
their family customs and traditions, their social practices in the old country, 
their educational and industrial opportunities in the old country. 
3. The Living and Working Conditions in the United States of the Same 
Groups 

a. The Kinds of Communities into Which They go and the Nature of 

Their Work 

1) Urban. See U. S. Immigration Commission, Vols. 26 and 27 

2) Mining. See U. S. Immigration Commission, Vols. 6 and 7 

3) Iron and Steel Manufacture. See U. S. Immigration Commis- 

sion, Vols. 8 and 9 

4) Rural. See U. S. Immigration Commission, Vols. 21 and 22 
See also 

Woman and Child Wage-Earners, Vols. I and XVI 

U. S. Bureau of Labor Report (62d Cong., 2d sess.. Senate, 

Doc. 870) 
U. S. Bureau of Labor Report (61st Cong., 2d sess.. Senate, 

Doc. 521) 
U. S. Bureau of Labor Report (62d Cong., 2d sess., H. of R., 

Doc. 847) 
Byington, Homestead, the Households of a Mill Town 
Kellogg, The Pittsburgh Survey 

b. Standards of Living 

See Chapin, Standards of Living Among Workingmen's Families 
in New York 
Byington, Homestead, the Households of a Mill Town 
Cost of Living 
Selected Recipes of National Dishes 



88 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [February 

4. Practice Teaching related to these studies to be planned with special 
reference to groups in the community where the university is located. 
Contacts to be obtained 

a. Through school children — school lunch 

b. Through charities 

c. Through pubUc health nurse, and to include 

Budget making for special groups 
Instruction of mother in household practices 
Preparation of diets for family, and for special cases, 
such as the 1) Undernourished child, 2) Expectant 
mother, 3) Nursing mother, 4) Tuberculosis. 

Miss Breckinridge has lately been appointed Chief of the Division 
of Adjustment of Homes and Family Life in the Study of Methods of 
Americanization undertaken by the Carnegie Foimdation. She asks 
that the readers of the Journal give her the benefit of their experience 
and judgment in regard to the feasibility of these courses. She also 
asks for an opinion as to whether they should be given as distinctive 
courses in home economics departments or whether they should be sub- 
divided, with the food habits considered in the food courses, clothing 
customs in the clothing courses, and so on. Do the courses as a whole 
belong to home economics or sociology? 

The Journal hopes that there will be many letters giving opinions- 
as to these questions. They may be sent either to the Joutjnal or to 
Miss Breckinridge. 



Thrift is wise spending of time and money — getting the most out 
of one's time, getting the most out of one's strength, getting the most 
out of one's earnings. 



BOOKS AND LITERATURE 



Any book or periodical mentioned in this department may be obtained through the 
Journal of Home Economics if the Journal price is listed. 

,A GROtTP of 'cook BOOKS — WAR AND OTHERWISE 



The Blue Grass Cook Book. By Minerva 

C. Fox. New York: Charles Scribners 

Sons, 1918, pp. 350. SI. 50. 

Just what ground the publishers have for 
calling this a "new and reWsed edition" is not 
apparent. 

A comparison of the "contents" (there 
is no index) in the two editions shows no 
new titles, merely a change in order on the 
first two pages. .-^ careful examination of a 
large part of the two books page by page 
disclosed no change but the omission of one 
recipe for potato salad. Thus it would 
appear that no library possessing the first 
edition needs this one. 

As to fitness for war times or reconstruc- 
tion, there is little. The whole volume is a 
look backward to days of great abundance 
and generous hospitality as is indicated by 
the charming introduction by John Fox, Jr. 

In these prohibition days, a real revision 
would probably have modified the many 
recipes for desserts which demand the wine- 
glass of brandy, half pint of whisky or rum, 
and for the beverages where some hquor is 
an essential ingredient. 
Economical Cookery. By Marion Harris 

Neil. Boston: Little, Brown, and Com- 
pany, 1918, pp. 346. $1.50. 

This is a real contribution from a careful 
writer and will prove helpful in the home, 
and in the reference library for home eco- 
nomics classes. 

It deals with the processes of cookery 
rather than the reasons and has little to say 
of nutritive values. The recipes are some- 
times intricate and aim at novelty and 
decorative effect, but that is perhaps neces- 
sary to get the attention of the public. 

In the main, however it is a good all 



around cook book and includes some of the 
best war cookery, to use in times of peace. 
Economical War - time Cook Book. By 
Janet M. Hill. Boston: Boston Cook- 
ing School Magazine Company, 1918, 
pp. 64. 25 cents. 

Mrs. Hill's carefully made recipes are too 
well-known to need discussion, and the 
same attention is given to war-time mate- 
rials that is found in her magazine and 
books. Here in less than a hundred pages 
are given directions for some excellent 
"wheatless, meatless, sweetless" dishes 
worthy to use for many a day to come even 
though the immediate necessity for empha- 
sizing them has disappeared. Any one 
owning Mrs. Hill's other books will want 
this as a supplement and others will do well 
to secure it. 

Caroline King's Cook-Book. By Caroline 
King. Boston: Little, Brown and Com- 
pany, 1918, pp. 275. $1.50. 
The author of this volume is a teacher for 
the University Extension Society of Phila- 
delphia. The subject is handled in the way 
it is taught in the schools, a foundation 
formula being well explained and suggestions 
given, instead of many separate and often 
unrelated recipes, such as public and pub- 
lishers too often demand. 

The classificaUon is good, and the subject 
matter appears to be well-arranged. The 
book would make a better appeal to the 
average reader if more attention had been 
given to paragraphing. 
The Liberty Cook-Book. By Bertha Stock- 
bridge. New York: .\ppleton and Com- 
pany, 1918, pp. 493. $2.00. 
The best quarter of this book is the last, 
on "Up-to-Date Canning" of which the 



90 



THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS 



[February 



author says, "The directions given are 
based upon the Department of Agriculture's 
recommendations, which have been verified 
in my own kitchen." By comparison with 
the U. S. bulletins, this part is not suffi- 
ciently original to be sold to the public, 
since the bulletins are free. 

The foreword indicates that Mrs. Stock- 
bridge wished to be of service "to the 
woman of a fairly large income who really 
wants to economize, not from necessity, but 
as a patriotic duty." 

We hope her "bit" counted. It might 
have served its purpose in the columns of 
the daily press. But a careful reading fails 
to find enough of value to warrant a volume 
of this size. Both carelessness in editing 
and lack of knowledge of fundamental prin- 
ciples are apparent. 

For example: on page 9 are three recipes, 
similar in quantity, for steamed brown 
breads containing from 2J to 3 cups of 
meal. 

One gives 2J tsp. of soda with J cup 
molasses and 2 cups sour milk or IJ cup 
sweet milk. 

The next has IJ tsp. soda with the same 
amounts of molasses and sweet milk. The 
last gives only ^ tsp. soda with one half cup 
molasses and 1§ cup milk. 

This is enough to make any intelligent 
cook distrust the rest of the book. 

There is much space wasted in a conver- 
sational style, perhaps suitable in the news- 
paper, but not adapted to such a book. 

When paper and labor are scarce it seems 
a pity to have them expended to so little 
purpose. 

Anna Barrows 

Department Store Merchandise Manuals. 
The Educational Director. By Beulah 
Elfreth Kennard, M.A. New York: 
The Ronald Press, 1918. $1.50. 
Of the ten manuals' that are now on the 
market, "The Educational Director" is 
unique and perhaps the most interesting in 
its type of subject matter. Every intelli- 
gent shopper who has felt the need of edu- 



cating salespeople for this particular work 
will welcome this movement. While other 
manuals deal with the technical subject 
matter for such instruction, with which do- 
mestic art people are more or less familiar, 
this book deals with the administrative and 
organization problems, the psychological, 
social, and economical aspects. The manual 
states very clearly and directly the many 
sided character of the work of the educational 
director, and gives her practical suggestions 
for carrying on the work. 

The scope of her work is outlined under 
four heads as follows: 

1. Relating to store organization. Her 
first task is to make a constructive educa- 
tional plan. She must know the conditions 
and the materials with which her work is to 
be done, and she must attempt to secure a 
better cooperation between the different 
elements in the store. 

2. Training in qualifications essential to 
good salesmanship, aside from technical 
training. In her program she must meet 
the need for broader education, including 
not only knowledge of merchandise but 
knowledge of the customer. She must be 
trained in constructive self criticism, in the 
development of imagination, [judgment, tact, 
and poise, which many salespeople under- 
estimate. 

3. The welfare and social interest of the 
employee and the problem of employment 
and promotion. The mental and physical 
condition of the salesman is of vital impor- 
tance in making for efficiency in service. 
Perhaps placement and promotion are due 
the employees after they have done their 
part and shown improvement. 

4. Relation of the store to the community. 

The manual shows very plainly that tech- 
nical knowledge is of very little use unless 
it is based upon a knowledge of the oppor- 
tunity and limitation of the store, a famili- 
arity with the personnel of the classes, and a 
comprehension of the salesmanship job. 

IvA Brandt, 

Iowa State College. 



•Other manuals were reviewed in the May, 1918, Jottrnal. Besides the one reviewed 
ibove, the recent ones include Silk, Millinery, Glassware, and House Furnishings. 



1919] BIBLIOGRAPHY OF HOME ECONOMICS 91 

BIBLIOGRAPHY OF HOME ECONOMICS 

periodic.Jll literature 

Nutrition and Foods 

Influence of Grains, Other Than Oats, and Specific Carbohydrates on the Development 
of Scurvy. W'.PiU, Jour. Biol. Chem. 33, (1918), pp. 471-5. Chemical Abstract, 12, p. 2004. 

Comparative Toxicity and Nutritive .Ability of Protein Foods in the Pure State. F. 
Maignon, Compt. rend. 166 (1918), pp. 1008-11. Chemical Abstract, 12, p. 2002. 

Toxicity of Egg Albumin; Influence of the Seasons upon the Sensibility of the Organism 
to Nitrogenous Intoxication. F. Maignon, Compt. rend., 166 (1918), pp. 919-22. 

The Nature of the Dietary Deficiencies of a Diet Derived from Peas, Wheat Flour and 
Cottonseed Oil. E. V. McCollum, N. Simmonds and H. T. Parsons, Jour. Biol. Chem., 
33 (1918), pp. 411-23. Chemical Abstract, 12, p. 2004. 

Vitamines and Symbiotes. Henri Bierry and Paul Portier, Compt. rend., 166 (1918), 
pp. 963-6. Chemical Abstract, 12, p. 2001. 

Choice between .\dequate and Inadequate Diets as Made by Rats. Thomas B. Osborne 
and Lafayette B. Mendel, Jour. Biol. Chem., 35 (1918), pp. 19-27. Chemical Abstract, 12, 
p. 2000. They chose the adequate one. 

The Preparation of Pure Casein. Lucius L. VanSlyke and John C. Baker, Jour. Biol. 
Chtm., 35 (1918), pp. 127-36. Chemical Abstract, 12, p. 1982. 

Some Problems in Starch Digestion in Infancy and Childhood. E. C. Fleischner and 
A. E. Meyers, Arch. Pediatrics, 35 (1918), pp. 129-41. Chemical Abstract, 12, p.. 2003. 

Amount of Sugar in the Blood of Babies with Beriberi. S. Tsutsuki, Japanese Med. 
Literature 2, No. 4, 6 (1917). Chemical Abstract, 12, p. 2011. 

Effect of Forced Feeding on the Nitrogen Equihbrium and the Blood in Pernicious Anemia. 
J. Edward Bums and P. B, Hopkins, Bui. Johns Hopkins Hosp. 29 (1918), pp. 129-34. 
Chemical Abstract, 12, p. 2015. 

The Sugar Problem. (.\ study of the place of sugar in the diet.) John P. Sutherland, 
Jour. Amer. Inst. Homeopathy, 11 (1918), pp. 69-75. 

Studies in Uric Acid Metabolism. Howard B. Lewis and Edward A. Doisy, Jour. Biol. 
Chem., 36 (1918), pp. 1-26. Reports on studies of endogenous uric acid elunination as 
influenced by high protein diets. 

The R6le of Inorganic Sulfates in Nutrition. Amy L. Daniels and Jean K. Rich, Jour. 
Biol. Chem., 36 (1918), pp. 27-32. Report of feeding experiments with rats. 

Cholesterol in Milk. W. Denis and A. S. Minot, Jour. Biol. Chem., 36 (1918), pp. 59-61. 
A report of cholesterol content of both cow's and human milk. 

The .\ntiscorbutic Property of Desiccated and Cooked Vegetables. Maurice H. Givens 
and Bamett Cohen, Jour. Biol. Chem., 36 (1918), pp. 127-145. Cabbage and potatoes 
were the vegetables used most extensively in this study. 

The Nutritive Value of the Banana. K. Sugiura and Stanley R. Benedict, Jour. Biol. 
Chem., 36 (1918), pp. 171-189. Report of experiments includes fifteen charts showing 
effect of different food combinations testing out the value of bananas. 

The Dietary Properties of the Potato. E. V. McCoUimi, N. Simmonds, and H. T. Par- 
sons, Jour. Biol. Chem., 36 (1918), pp. 197-210. 

Feeding Experiments with Raw and Boiled Carrots. Minna C. Denton and Emma 
Kohman, Joiir. Biol. Chem., 36 (1918), pp. 249-263. 

The Influence of Meat and Various Salts upon the Development of Scurvy. W. Pitz, 
Jour. Biol. Chem., 36 (1918), pp. 439-466. 

The Substitution of Saccharin for Sugar. W. E. Burge, Science, N. S., 48 (1918), p. 549. 



92 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [February- 

Analyses of Breads. Balland, Compt. rend. Acad. A^r. France, 4 (1918), pp. 708-10. 

Chemical Abstract, 12, p. 2099. 

Method of Preparing Pectin. Charles H. Hunt, Science, 48, (1918), pp. 201-2. 
Chemical Examination of the Loganberry. Oregon Agr. Sta. Bui. ISl (1918), pp. 1-10. 

Chemical Abstract, 12, p. 2100, 12, p. 293, 11, p. 3347. 

Energy Producing Foods. A. W. Sandwall, Mo. Bui. Mass. Dept. of Health, Nov. 1918. 

Clothing and Textiles 

Colored Stripe and Check Voiles. Laneshaw, Textile World Jour., Oct., 1918. 
Pneumatic Cotton Ginning and Cleaning. Textile World Jour., Oct., 1918. 
Bleaching and Finishing Crepes. Textile World Jour., Oct., 1918. 
White Goods. Dry Goods Economist, Oct., 1918. 
Linen Situation. Dry Goods Economist, Oct., 1918. 
Linen Outlook. Dry Goods Economist, Oct., 1918. 
Silk and Cotton Mixed Fabrics. Textile World Jour., Nov., 1918. 

Textiles and Other Designs Taken from Those of the Mayons of Central America. (De- 
signs by Ada B. Beckwith), School Arts, Nov. 1918. 
Budget Clubs and War Ser\'ice. Survey, Oct., 1918. 
Making the Most of the Income. Isabel E. Lord, Designer, Nov., 1918. 
New Shopping Rules at Filene's. Dry Goods Economist, Nov., 1918. 
Shopping Guide. House Beautiful, Oct., 1918. 
Worsted Designs as Accessories of Dress. School Arts, Nov., 1918. 
Wall-hanging Embroidered. Jessie Clough, Touchstone, Oct., 1918. 
Anent the Modem Drapery Problem. Decorative Furnisher, Nov., 1918. 
Rag Tapestries. Myra Burr Edson, Int. Studio, Oct., 1918. 

Miscellaneous 

A New Basket Material — Juncus Effusus. Anna E. Tourette Blauvett, Ii%d. Arts, Nov., 
1918. 

Manual Training for the Elementary Grades. Edw. F. Worst, School Arts, Oct. and 
Nov., 1918. 

Needlecraft in the Home. Florence E. Ellis, School Arts, Nov., 1918. 

Cross Stitch Embroidery as a High School Problem. Lucy S. Ward, School Arts, Nov., 
1918. 

.-^ Few Satisfactory Media for Handwork. Garrah M. Packar, Ind. Arts, Nov., 1918. 

Historical Style and The Designer. Edward J. Lake, Ind. Arts, Oct. and Nov., 1918. 

The True Spirit of a Period Style — Italian Renaissance. Summer Robinson, Art World 
&• Arts &• Decoration, Oct., 1918 

Importance of the Child's Room. Bertha M. Howland, House Beautiful, Nov., 1918. 

Good and Bad Bathrooms. Joseph L. SuUivan, House Beautiful, Nov., 1918. 

Present Difficulties in Making Linoleum. Good Furniture, Oct., 1918. 

The Charm of the Small House. Architectural Record, Oct., 1918. 

The Workingman and his House. Architectural Record, Oct., 1918. 

Of Fireplaces. Architectural Record, Oct., 1918. 

Small Window Panes. Architectural Record, Oct., 1918. 

Walls as Decoration and Background. Edw. Stratton Hallaway, House Beautiful, Nov., 
1918. 



NEWS FROM THE FIELD 



The Textile Section of the American 
Home Economics Association has formed 
committees to study the following topics: 
A Survey of the Course of Study in House- 
hold Art; The Formulation of Series of 
Problems in Successful Shopping; The 
Basis for Marking Household Art Students; 
The Educational Value of Red Cross Work; 
The Value of Short Cuts. 

These committees were instructed by the 
Chairman to spend the ensuing year collect- 
ing data for a report to be made at the meet- 
ing to be held during the summer of 1919. 
The subjects were the result of the discus- 
sion at the annual meeting, in response to 
the query, "What type of Household Art 
material needs to be standardized?" 

Nursing and Home Economics. — At 
the University of the State of Washington 
in 1917-18 a nurse's course was added to the 
curriculum. Students may take three years 
at the University, followed by two years in 
the Nurses Training School, graduating at 
the end of five years as a registered nurse 
with a Bachelor of Science Degree. 

A nurse's course has also been established 
in the University of Wisconsin that may be 
completed in less time than five years by 
taking summer work. In Ohio State Uni- 
versity, the five years nurse's course paral- 
leils the work in home economics for the 
first three years. 

The nurse's course in the University of 
Iowa is on much the same plan as the Vassar 
course. 

The State Normal School at Harrison- 
burg, Virginia, lias been selected by the 
Federal Board for Vocational Education to 
train teachers in home economics under 
the Smith-Hughes Act. This year thirty- 
seven students are registered for the first 



year of the course, which includes four 
years of work of strictly college grade. 

The school also offers a two-year course 
in home economics for teachers of elemen- 
tary schools, and gives to all students of 
the preparatory year a general course in 
foods, shelter, and clothing. 

The department is under the charge of 
Miss S. Frances Sale assisted by five instruc- 
tors and five assistants, graduate students 
completing the B.S. course. 

Members of the senior class live in the 
Practice House twelve weeks each, and are 
required to do practice teaching for twenty- 
four weeks in the schools of the city and 
the surrounding country. The county ap- 
propriates the traveling expenses and the 
Normal School furnishes an automobile. 

The College of William and Mary, Wil- 
liamsburg, Virginia, has been made one of 
the two centers for the training of teache rs 
of home economics in Virginia, under the 
Smith-Hughes Act, and Miss Edith Baer, 
formerly of Drexel, has been made professor 
of home economics and director of the 
department. 

As the work is still in its infancy. Miss 
Baer's time is not fully occupied and she has 
recently been also appointed super\'isor of 
home economics for the state of Virginia, 
giving two-fifths of her time to this work. 

Women's Club Markets Own Products. 

The women of a Tennessee home demon- 
stration club are marketing their own 
vegetables, small fruits, eggs, poultry-, 
butter, and cottage cheese with the help of 
the local home demonstration agent. The 
products have been attractively displayed 
at the entrance to the market house. The 
club members are making a specialty of 
week-end baskets filled to order to meet the 
tastes of the purchasers. 



94 



THE JOtTRNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS 



[February 



Commiinal Kitchens in England now 
number nearly 1000, and are giving great 
satisfaction. The government provides 25 
per cent of the initial outlay as a loan and 
another 25 per cent as an outright grant, 
the other 50 per cent being paid by the 
municipalities. The average price of in- 
dividual dinners is said to be about sixteen 
cents. 

Homes for Workers Engaged in War 
Industries. London has its housing diflS- 
culties, no less than cities in this country, 
and is planning an e.xpenditure of £5,500,000 
to solve the problem. 

The program is to provide for seven years 
after the conclusion of peace, since abnormal 
conditions are expected to prevail during 
this period. 

The committee also plans to raze insan- 
itary dwellings and to replace them with 
more approved structures. 

The Recognition of Home Economics.— 

The importance of home economics has been 
recognized in several recent Educational 
Surveys — that of the public school system of 
San Francisco; of public education in the 
state of South Dakota; in the survey of 
schools at Elyria, Ohio; and of the schools 
of Columbia, South Carolina; and in the 
Tennessee Educational Survey. In the re- 
port of each of these surveys, home eco- 
nomics has a separate chapter or section of a 
chapter. 

Notes. Miss Edna L. Skinner has accepted 
a position at Massachusetts Agricultural Col- 
lege, to organize and head a Department of 
Home Economics. The College has never 
oflfered special courses for women, though 
their extension work in this field is weU 
developed. The work will lay especial 
emphasis on rural homemaking. 

Mrs. Nellie Kedzie Jones, who has the 
honor of ha\'ing trained some of the best 
known home economics teachers, has 
undertaken the work of State Leader of 



Home Demonstration .Agents for Wisconsin. 
Mrs. Jones's experience as head of the 
department at Kansas State Agricultural 
College and at Bradley Polytechnic, her 
work at Berea, and her most acceptable 
lecture tours through the West, as well as 
her practical experience on her own farm, 
all make her invaluable as a state extension 
worker. We congratulate Wisconsin. 

Mrs. Jones writes: "You may be inter- 
ested to know that the Home Demonstra- 
tion Agents in this state have done wonder- 
ful work in the recent and present influenza 
situation. One prominent man in a large 
city said to me of the Home Demonstration 
Agent, 'I want you to know that the whole 
city is taking off its hat to her because of 
the work she has done.' In the large fires 
in the northern part of the state the Home 
Demonstration Agents were most helpful 
and in fact each county, fortunate enough 
to have one, believes in her and knows that 
she is a mighty power for good." 

Miss Alice Bradley, well known as the 
head of Miss Farmer's School of Cookery 
has lately gone to Drexel Institute as Pro- 
fessor of Dietetics in charge of a new de- 
partment for training army dietitians. 

The classes have had as practice labora- 
tory the Mess Hall of 250 students in the 
S. A. T. C, the student's house dining room 
in which there are 120 young women, and 
the Institute Cafeteria. Miss Bradley con- 
tinues lecturing at her own school in Boston 
while she is inaugurating her new work. 

In Mills College, California, the house 
sanitation courses have been transferred to 
the Physics Department and are called 
applied physics. 

At the University of Indiana a course is 
given on the Care, Management, and Train- 
ing of Children below School Age, and one 
on Women and Children in Industry. 

The University of Minnesota offers a 
course in Commercial Clothing Manu- 
facture. 



Vol. XI, Xo. 3 March, 1919 

THE 

Journal of Home Economics 

For those interested in Homemaklng, Institution Management, 
and Educational Work in Home Economics 

Mrs. Auce P. Norton, Editor Keturah E. Baldwin, Business EdiUir 

Editorial Board 
Mrs. Mary H. Abel C. F. Langwoeth\' Ethel\\'yn Miixee Rdth Wheeler Amy Daniels 

Ex-Officio if embers —Edna N. White, President American Home Economics Association 
Elsie Leonard, Chairman Institution Economics Section 
Kathebine Bldnt, Chairman Science Section 
Acnes E. Harris, Chairman Extension Education Section 
Grace Denny, Chairman Textile Section 

CoUab<>ralors— The Officers, Members of the Council, and Advisors 



CONTENTS 

A MALNtrTRiTiON^Ci-iNic AS A Unhxesity PROBLEM IN APPLIED Deetaries . Lydia Roberts 95 

Odtllnes on Child^Care Dorothy Reed Mendenhall 102 

The Use of Desiccated Eggs Lois Lhamon 108 

"The Newxr Knowxedge of Nutritiox" Mary Swartz Rose 115 

What is Experimental Cookery? Minna C. Dcntnn 119 

Centigrade Scale Compared with Fahrenheit 123 

For the Houemaker 

Visiting Housekeeping with the Jensons Rtilh Bowen 125 

Wise Spen-ding R. G. Blakey 128 

Milk: Its Relation to Race Characteristics 131 

Inspection vs. Eating 132 

An Ode to Health 132 

Editorial 133 

Books and Literature 135 

Pamphlets Received 137 

brbliograph\' of home economics . 139 

News from the Field 141 



The JoutLSAh of Home EcoNOincs is published monthly by the American Home Economics Association. 
$2.00 A YEAR. FOREIGN J2.35. CANADIAN J2.20. SINGLE COPIES 25 CENTS 

now TO REMIT. Remittances should be sent by Check. Express Order or Postal Money Order, payable to tho 
American Home Economics Association. Currencv. unless mailed in a registered letter, is at the sender's risk. 

NOTICE, When payment is made by check no receipt will be sent unless requested. 

CHANGE IN ADDRESS. .Notice of change in address sliould he sent Two Weeks before the date o( issue on which 
the change is to take effect. The subscriber's Old Address should be clearly indicated in addition to the New Address. 

AMERICAN HOME ECONOMICS ASSOCIATION 1211 Cathedral St., Baltimore, Md. 

The J00R.VAL OP HoviE Ecosouics is on sale at John Wanamaker's. Philadelphia; The Old Corner Cook Store, BostoD; 
A. C McClurg's, Chicago: Baltimore News Company, Baltimore; Woodward and Loihrop. Wasliineton 



The American Home Economics Association 



Organized Dec. 31, 1908. Incorporated May 12, 1909. 

The American Home Economics Association exists for the purpose of bringing together those interested i 
of conditions in the home, the school, the public institution, and the community. 

Annual Dues: Active $2.00; Associate $1.00. Only active members receive the quarterly bulletin. 



I the bettering 



FLORA ROSE, 

Cornell University, Ithaca, N. Y. 

Secretary 

CORA M. WINCHELL, 

Teachen College, New York City 



President 

EDNA N. WHITE. 

Ohio State University, Columbus 

Vice-Presidents 

ISABEL BEVIER, 

Uaivertity of Illinois, Urbana 



EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE 



C. F. LANGWORTHY, 

U. S. Dept. Agr, Washington, D. C. 

Treasurer 

H. GALE TURPIN. 

Baltimore Trust Company, Baltimore 



The Executive Committee is composed of the following members: The president, three vice-presidents, secretary, treas- 
urer, the retiring president, and five additional members of the Council, chosen by the Council, viz.: Sarah Louise Arnold 
Anna Barrows, Alice Loomis, Mary E. Matthews, Catharine Mulligan. 



COUNCILORS AT LARGE 



Sakab Louise Arnold 

Simmons College, 

Boston, Mass. 

Isabel Ely Lord. 
Pratt Institute, 

Brooklyn, N.Y 

Mrs. Henrietta Calvin, 

U. S. Bureau of Education, 
Washington. D. C 
Fannie Twiss, 

Normal School, Regina, 
Saskatchewan, Canada. 



TERMS EXPIRE 1919 
Josephine T. Berry, 
University Farm. 
St. Paul, Minn. 

Catharine A. Mulligan, 
Converse College, 

Spartanburg, S. C. 

TERMS EXPIRE 1920 
AucE Loomis, 

University of Nebraska, 
Lincoln, Neb. 

Edna N- White, 

University of Ohio, 
Columbus, Ohio. 



Helen Louise Johnson, 

37 E. 28th St., 

N. Y. C. 



Mary E. Sweeney, 

University of Kentucky 
Lexington, Ky. 



Epfie Raitt, 

University of Washington, 
Seattle. Wash. 

Eueline Whitcomb. 

University of Montana 
Missoula, Mont. 

EUMA WiNSLOW, 

Teachers College, 
New York City. 
Ada Field. 

George Peabody College, 
Nashville. Tenn. 

Maude Murchie. 
Sacramento, Cal. 

Florence Ward, 
U. S. Dept. Agr., 

Washington, D. C. 



Mrs' Charles W. Greene, 
14 ColumbiaAve., 

Columbia, Mo 



Carlotta Greer, 

E. Tech. High School, 
Cleveland, Ohio. 



E. V. McCollum, 

Johns Hopkins University, 
Baltimore. Md. 



TERMS EXPIRE 1921 
Ruth Wardall. 

University of Iowa, 
Iowa City, Iowa 

Mary E. Matthews, 
Purdue University, 
LaFayette, Ind. 
TERMS EXPIRE 1922 
Jenny H. Snow, 

Su|.'v'r Household Arts, 
Chicago, III. 

Grace Denny, 

Univ. of Washington, 
Seattle, 
TERMS EXPIRE 1923 
Alice Ravenhill. 
Agricultural College, 
Logan, Utah. 

Mary Gearing, 

University of Texas, 
Austin. Texas. 
SECTIONAL COUNCILORS 
.tution Economics Section: Mrs. Melvil Dewey. Lake Placid Club, N. Y.; Elsie Leonard, Univ. of W^is. 
Science Section: Katharine Blunt, Univ. of Chicago. 

Extension Section: Agnes Ellen Harris, Fla. State College for Women. Tallahassee 
Textile Section: Grace Denny, Univ. of Wash., Seattle. 

REPRESENTATIVE COUNCILORS 
One representative councilor may be chosen by each affiliated society, provided the councilor is a member of the American 
le Economics Association. The names of those appointed are printed with the officers of the Affiliated Association. 
TRUSTEES OF THE ELLEN H. RICHARDS MEMORIAL FUND 
TERMS EXPIRE JANUARY 1, 1920 
Mrs. Annie Dewey. 
Lake Placid Club, 

Lake Placid, N. Y 
Bertha M. Terrill, 
Univ. of Vermont, 
Burlington, Vt. 
TERMS EXPIRE JANUARY 1, 1921 
Elizabeth Condit, 
Pratt Institute. 

Brooklyn, N.Y. 
Marion Talbot. 

University of Chicago, 
Chicago. Til 
TERMS EXPIRE JANUARY 1, 1922 
Dr. Katharine Blunt, 

University of Chicago 
Dr. Louise Stanley, 

Federal Board for Vocational Education, 
Washington, D. C. 



Martha Van Rensselaer, 
Cornell University, 
Ithaca, N. Y. 



cretary and Treasurer.) 



Anna Barrows, 

Teachers College, 
New York City. 



Robert H. Richards, 

Mass. Inst, of Technology 
Boston, Mass. 



Mrs. Henrietta W. Calvin, 
Bureau of Education. 
Washington, D. C. 



THE 

Journal of Home Economics 

Vol. XI ■ MARCH, 1919 No. 3 

A M.\LNUTRITION CLINIC AS A UNIVERSITY PROBLEM IN 
APPLIED DIETARIES^ 

LYDIA ROBERTS 

University of Chicago 

A year's work with malnourished children in cooperation with pedi- 
atricians in the dispensary' had shown that the problem of bringing these 
underweight children up to normal was largely one of diet. Experience 
in teaching university classes in home economics had likewise shown 
that work in dietaries would be much more \dtal if taught in coimection 
with some actual human need for the work. Such a need, without a 
doubt, the dispensary children furnished. It was decided, therefore, to 
offer work in a malnutrition clinic as a university course in applied 
dietaries. A small group of advanced students, having a good scientific 
foimdation of physiology, nutrition, food preparation, marketing, and 
dietaries, enrolled in the course. 

A number of underweight children were selected from ones who had 
already been in the dispensary a few times and showed need of intensive 
work. Others were referred to the class by the pediatricians as they 
were found in the clinics. The conduct of the class was ver>' smiilar to 
that described by Dr. Emerson- and Dr. Smith.' It differed, however, 
in that it was conducted, not by a physician, but by "diet specialists," 

' The work was done in the Central Free Dispensary of Rush Medical College. 

' Class Method in Dietetic and Hygienic Treatment of Delicate Children. Emerson. 
Pediatrics, 22 (1910), p. 627. 

• Methods of Conducting a Class for Malnourished Children. Chas. Hendie Smith, M.D. 
Amer. Jour. Dis. Chil. 15 (1918), p. 373. 

95 



96 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [March 

who, as it happened, were teachers of children as well. This does not 
mean, of course, that the work was done independently of the physician; 
it was merely a di\'ision of labor. The children were all given thorough 
examination and all necessary medical treatment by the physicians, who 
then referred the ones in need of dietary' help to the diet specialists, 
exactly as eye and ear cases were turned over to their respective 
clinics. The ones in need of medical supervision reported to the 
physician each week before coming to the diet class, others with nothing 
at fault but diet and hygiene came directly to the class. The children 
met once a week on Saturday mornings. No attempt was made to 
secure a large group, since intensive rather than extensive work was 
desired. 

Each student was given at least two or three cases as her special re- 
sponsibility. Her first duty on a new case was to ascertain the child's 
height, weight, and habits of diet and hygiene. She then plotted his 
weight chart, explained its significance to him and to his mother, and 
gave dietetic and hygienic advice based on her findings. This was merely 
the beginning, however, for the case was her problem and she was ex- 
pected to find its full solution. She must determine all the symptoms of 
malnutrition present, find out all the causes, specific and remote, which 
were responsible for the condition, and do everything which might be 
necessary to remove these causes and produce a gain. This required, 
first of all, a visit to the home to find out all conditions under which the 
child lived. It meant planning an adequate diet which should vary as 
little as possible from the family's customary one, and which should 
cost well within the family's means. Often a survey of the markets in 
the neighborhood was necessary to learn the kinds and qualities of goods 
and their prices, in order to help the mother make her limited purse 
cover the cost of adequate food. The mothers needed to be taught how 
to prepare foods and the children persuaded to eat them. In ahnost 
every instance the worker found she must supplement to a great extent 
the lack of parental control in matters of sleep, rest, and habits of eating. 

At the cKnic the student took special charge of her own cases, listened 
to the discussion of the others, and helped prepare food exhibits, diet 
slips, and recipes needed in the class. She made at least one home visit 
each week, saw that the child attended clinic regularly, and was held 
personally responsible if he lost or failed to gain. She kept a complete 
rer:,ird of the case, and at the end submitted a written report analyzing 
and summarizing the findings and results of her work according to a 



1919] A MALNTJTRITION CLINIC 97 

prescribed outline. The following cases with their accompanjdng charts 
will show the type of work done and the results obtained. 

Chart I shows the effect of three weeks intensive treatment on a fam- 
ily of three children aged six, nine, and eleven years. The cases were 
very interesting, as they showed practically every s^^nptom of malnu- 
trition. All were much underweight — 9, 16, and 11| pounds, or about 20, 
24, and 17%, respectively. In appearance they were emaciated, anemic, 
and of an earthy color. They had "winged" shoulders, narrow chests, 
flabby m.usclcs and skins, and dark hollows under the eyes. They were 
extremely irritable and finicky about their food. They were always 
tired, did not care to play with other children, and had no power of 
concentration; the expression of their faces was lifeless and dull. They 
lacked, in short, every characteristic of normal children. The physi- 
cians found nothing clinically wrong with any of them; so they were 
turned over to the diet class for treatment. 

The student to whose lot these children fell heaved a sigh at the 
thought of the undertaking; for there remained but three weeks in which 
to work, and to hope to accomplish much on such extreme cases in so 
short a time seemed out of the question. She attacked the case with 
extra ^^gor, however, being determined to win if any amount of time 
and labor of hers could accomphsh it. 

At the beginning she made \asits to the home every second da}', ar- 
rivuig before breakfast and staying till after lunch in order to help pre- 
pare the meals and see that the children ate them — a thing the mother 
was utterly powerless to do. It was this inabihty of the mother to control 
her children which was one of the chief causes of their condition. They 
ate what and when they pleased and slept only when nature forced them 
to. In addition to her lack of home control, the mother was totally 
ignorant of the food needs of children, as well as of American foods and 
methods of cooking. Poverty was not a factor. The father earned 
good wages and was able and willing to buy what his family needed. 

The diet of the children was deficient both in quality and quantity 
They had scarcely any milk, no cereals, no meat, no butter, and prac- 
tically no fruits nor vegetables. They ate "cakes," "polly seeds," much 
candy, potatoes, some sort of dried fish, and tomatoes occasionally. A 
liberal estimate of the fuel value of the day's diet (exclusive of candy) 
was 500 calories. Combined with the inadequacy of food there were hur- 
ried meals, lack of exercise, and insufficient sleep. The children were 
in such a subnormal condition from long continued underfeeding that 



THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS 



[March 



they were with great difficulty and only very gradually coaxed, urged, 
tempted, and bribed into taking suitable food in sufficient amounts. 
It was necessary almost literally to "camp on the job" at first. When 
the children began to gain, however, the father became interested, as- 
sumed some of the responsibility, and forced the mother to do the same. 
The results of the three weeks' treatment were that the children had 
gained 5, 4, and 4| pounds, respectively; they were much improved in 
color, and markedly so in disposition ; they were less finicky about foods, 
and were eating good breakfasts and a fuU day's diet quite willingly with 
little candy and cakes between meals. A comparison of diets estimated 
at the beginning and at the end shows most strikingly the changes in 
this respect. 



DIET AT THE BEGINNING 


DIET AT THE END OF THREE WEEKS 


Breakfast — 

None. (Ate cake and candy dur- 
ing the morning) 


calories 


Breakfast — 


calories 
100 




175 




25 




Butter 


100 




Cream 

Milk 


100 
150 






650 


Dinner — 

Potato 


50 
50 
50 


Dinner — 
Stew 

Meat 




Fish 


200 




Potatoes 


25 




Rice 


75 




150 






200 


(Candy and cakes and polly seeds 


Fruit 


50 


during the afternoon) 




550 


Supper— 


50 
100 
200 


Supper — 


150 




Egg 


75 


Cakes 


Butter 


100 






50 




350 






200 






575 


Total for the day (not including 
candy eaten between meals) 


500 


Total for the day 


1775 







1919] 



A iLA.LNUTRITION CLINIC 



99 



Child 6 years 



Chart I 

Child 9 years 



»t 




S 


t 


■f 


i. 


■7 




, 




* 


•( 


H. 




1 


, 


3 4 


r 


(, 
























































tf 




ft^ 


rrn 


d- 








































































































































































































1,0 














7n 


^ 


ot 


ma 


V_ 


— 


— 












































/fo 


'W 


^ 


lv 




— 
































































































































5J 














(iT 






















































































































> 
























/ 
















f 


f 
























/ 












TO 




/ 










(-0 




/ 










/ 
















/ 














/ 










































< 


/ 













Chart II 



t 


yA 


^ 


■5 


1 


?■ 


( 


1 


if 


1 


iO 








































1 




'1 


k 








_. 














- 






































2 
























t; 








































































; 








,^ 




















5 


^ 


r 












. 








/ 






















<^ 




































, 











Chart III 



fk 


nk 


1_ 


1 


•/ 


r 


I 


,T 


*• 


1 


ift 


























































li 














































































- 


















—J 


_ 
















~ 


^ 














^« 












1 






/ 
























/ 
























/ 
























/ 




















^ 


^ 


►^ 














>-s 


<- 


^ 


■^ 







































































Lb 


vrk 


^ 


3 


•* 


Ch 


AR 


r I 

7 


V 
*- 


T 




(1 


<. 


if 








































































































i< 




















— 












































































































(■n 




















_ 


^ 
















r-- 


^ 


<■ 


/ 








n 




f 


s 




) 




















y 




N< 


( 











































100 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [March 

To be sure, much remained to be done, and the cases should have 
been under supervision for a longer time. A beginning had been made, 
however; the mother now knew something of what to feed children and 
how to prepare it, and the father promised to see that the treatment 
was continued. The improvement in the children's disposition alone, 
he considered, made any effort and expense worth while. 

These cases have been reported thus in detail because they illustrate 
many of the points which arise in the handling of such children. A few 
other cases which show special points will be mentioned briefly. Other 
interesting cases could be given, but these few are enough to show some 
of the typical difdculties encountered and the results secured. 

Chart II shows the improvement in a 12 year old girl when dietary 
treatment was combined with medical care. Up to the point marked 3 
she was under medical supervision only. At that point she was referred 
to the diet class and her curve began to move steadily upwards. This 
child was 11 per cent under weight and was troubled with chronic 
constipation. 

Insufficient food, both in kind and amount, combined with worrying 
over schoolwork and sitting up till 11 o'clock to do "home work," were 
the determining causes in this case. The child was very responsive and 
intelhgent and took the responsibility of her owti case. She had gained 
3| pounds in four weeks, was eating enough food of the right kind, was 
putting herself faithfully to bed at 9 o'clock, and her bowels were almost 
normal. 

Chart III shows a comparatively easy case. Ignorance and poverty 
were both big factors in causing the undernutrition in this 8 year old 
chUd and her 6 year old sister. Adding to the diet a pint of mUk and 
teaching the mother the value of some cheap foods like oatmeal, potatoes, 
and prunes, caused a rapid gain in both children. 

Chart IV shows the relation between sleep, diet, and malnutrition. 
The diet was extremely faulty and the bedtime 11, 12, or even 1 o'clock. 
It was comparatively easy to improve the diet, but in spite of the child's 
eagerness to gain, 10 o'clock was about the best she could manage to do 
in the matter of getting herself to bed. The mother was of little assist- 
ance and the case was too far away to be closely supervised by the 
worker. As a result it took the child 10 weeks to gain 3 pounds. 

More could be said concerning the instruction given the children in 
the class, — for a little informal series of lessons on children's foods with 
exhibits and simple demonstrations was given, together with talks on 



1919] A MALNUTRITION CLINIC 101 

sleep, hygiene, and general health problems. On the last day v;hen a 
general re\aew was given to find out (as it was explained to the children) 
whetlier they would now be able to take care of themselves, they passed 
a very creditable examination. 

So much for the benefit of the nutrition class to the children. How 
about its value to the university students? It is unfortunate that there 
is no graphic method of plotting their gains such as was possible with 
those of the children, for the results would undoubtedly be quite as 
startling. Aside from the new knowledge gained of malnutrition itself, 
of the relation between diet and health, and especially of the intimate 
connection between diet and the various other factors of living, the work 
demanded the reorganization and use for a specific purpose of much of 
the material of pre\'ious courses in nutrition, cooking, marketing, and 
dietaries. Making a minimum cost diet for a real child, desperately in 
need of help, was quite a different problem from sitting in a classroom 
and planning one for an imaginary child. 

Nor must we forget that these students are teachers going out to work 
in the public schools of the country. When we consider the large num- 
ber of malnourished children in the schools, as shown by recent investi- 
gations,^ it is a satisfaction to realize that any students who have done 
this practical work with children can never become mere teachers of 
cooking or abstract dietetics. They will not only be able to recognize 
such children in their classes and throughout the school, but can hardly 
fail to add to their teaching the task of improving the nutrition of the 
children with whom they come in contact. 

' Malnutrition in Children. Weekly Bulletin of Dept. of Health, City of N. Y., 6 
(1918), p. 75. 



102 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [March 

OUTLINES ON CHILD CARE 

DOROTHY REED MENDENHALL, M.D. 

Children's Bureau, United Stales Department of Labor 

As a part of the Children's Year Program, Miss Lathrop advocated 
the promotion of school, college, and extension courses in child care, so 
that it was particularly gratifying when the Federal Board for Voca- 
tional Education asked the Children's Bureau to cooperate with them 
in the preparation of outlines for a college course on Child Care and Child 
Welfare. 

Last June, fifty tentative topics for outlines for such a course were 
presented at the meeting of the American Home Economics Association 
in Chicago. This venture is part of the vocational education plan to 
train teachers to teach infant hygiene in high schools, but it is hoped 
that the outlines may possibly have a wider application. In some of 
our leading colleges and universities, a similar course, or parts of such 
a course, is already being given with most gratifying results. Our aim 
in the preparation of this course is to standardize the teaching of child 
care, and to have the presentation of child welfare cover all the impor- 
tant phases of childhood. 

A number of these outlines, those dealing with the mother and with 
the special child, have been finished, and work on other sections is 
imder way. It has been thought necessary to include in the outUnes 
considerable informative material for the use of the teacher, material 
of which she should be cognizant before attempting to give such a 
course or to supervise its presentation, but which would probably be 
unwise to put in the hands of individual pupils. Thus, in a way, the 
outlines with the reading references which accompany tliem will form 
a text-book for the use of college teachers, rather than a skeleton out- 
line of lectures to be delivered to a class. 

Lest there be confusion in the teacher's mind as to just what should 
be included in the material presented to the class, thirty topics for a 
semester course have also been prepared. Material from several outlines 
may be used in the preparation of a single topic. The Children's Bureau 
is anxious to have the reaction of teachers of home economics on the 
scope of this course. It includes, as it now stands, the whole subject 
of tlie child, any part of which could be enlarged and given more fully, 
if desired. Much of it, especially the nutrition of the child, is alreadv 



1919] OUTLINES ON CHILD CARE 103 

given in other courses. There are obvious advantages in presenting the 
subject of childhood as a whole, and there is obvious need for informing 
the teacher, who is to present the subject of infant and child hygiene to 
the young girl, of the health problems of the school and of the physical 
and mental changes of adolescence. 

A comprehensive bibliography will accompany the complete set of 
outlines, with page references to the different subjects. 

The Federal Board for Vocational Education is preparing to send out 
immediately to departments of home economics the ten completed out- 
lines, and tlie suggested topics for a semester course on the child, in 
order to have the benefit of the criticism and advice of those who are 
to give the course. 

In the preparation of the other outlines, we are especially anxious to 
know if this material seems of value to the teacher, or whether a skeleton 
outline of the proposed thirty lectures on the child would be more useful. 

Communications should be addressed to Dr. Dorothy Reed Mendcn- 
hall. The Children' Bureau, Department of Labor, Washington, D. C. 

The Child 

Thirty Suggested Topics for a College Course in Home Economics 

1. The Preparation for Motherhood. The Rights of the Child. 2. The 
Expectant Mother and Prenatal Care. 3. Preparation for Confinement 
and Birth of the Baby (may be omitted). 4. The Lying-in Period. First 
Care of the Baby. 5. The Nursing Period. 6. Substitutes for Mother's 
Milk, Cow's Milk, and Proprietary Foods. 7. Artificial Feeding of the In- 
fant. The Modification of Milk. 8. Feeding the First Two Years. 9. Infant 
Care. General Hygiene. 10. The Bath. Clothing. 11. Environments- 
Housing, Nursery, Furnishing, and Equipment. 12. Normal Physical 
Growth and Development in Infancy. 13. Mental Growth in Infancy and 
Training. 14. Care and Feeding of the Pre-School Child. 15. The Special 
Senses and Teeth. General Hygiene. 16. Prevention and Correction of 
Physical Defects. 17. The Value of Play in Childhood. 18. Nutrition and 
Care of the School Child. 19. School Hygiene and Medical Inspection. 
20. Infectious Disease and its Result. 21. Children's Diseases — the Erup- 
tive Fevers, Whooping Cough, Mumps. 22. Psychology of Childhood and 
Methods of Child Training. 23. The Unusual Child. 24. Sex Instruction 
and Hygiene. 25. Physical Growth and Development at Puberty. 26 The 
Adolescent Period and Vocational Guidance. 27. The State and the Special 
Child. 28. Rural Health Problems and the Rural School. 29. General 



104 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOJiics [March 

Neglect of Maternity and Infancy. Maternal and Infant Mortality. Birth 
Registration. 30. Child Welfare Agencies. The Public Protection of Ma- 
ternity and Infancy. 

Proposed Topics for Outlines on Child Care and Child Welfare for the Use of 
Teachers of Home Economics in Colleges 

Introduction. I, II, and III. Health Problems of Mother and Child. IV. 
Child Mentality and Management. V. Recreation and Physical Training. 
VI. Child Labor. VII. Children in Need of Special Care. 

I-III. Health Problems of Mother and Child. 

The Child: General Considerations. Society and the child. The 
home and the child. Parenthood: the greatest of all human responsi- 
bihties. Possibilities of the child. Rights of the child. The state 
and the child. 

Birth Registration. Registration area for births. Birth registra- 
tion laws. Registration area for deaths. Importance of complete and 
accurate registration of vital statistics. Importance of birth registra- 
tion. Birth registration test. Significant facts shown by statistics. 
Infant mortahty. 

Prenatal Care. Maternal mortality. Underlying causes of mater- 
nal mortality. Relation of infant mortality and maternal care. Pre- 
vention of maternal mortality and infant mortality. Hygiene of the 
expectant mother. Value of prenatal care. Signs of pregnancy. 
Duration of pregnancy. Pubhc protection of maternity and early 
infancy. 

Disorders and Dangers of Pregnancy. Disturbances of digestion. 
Disturbances of elimination. Other disturbances. Pressure symp- 
toms. Fallacy of maternal impressions. Miscarriage. Auto-intoxi- 
cation or toxemia. Child-bed fever. 

Confinement. Necessary attendants. Places of confinement. Nec- 
essary supplies. Preparation for confinement. Labor. Course of 
labor. After labor. Birth emergencies. 

The Lying-in Period. Necessity for rest in bed. Duration of needed 
rest after confinement. Physiological changes during puerperium. 
Care of the mother during puerperium. Care of the newborn infant. 

The Nursing Period. Function of lactation. The mammary gland. 
Establishing lactation. Woman's milk. Hygiene of the nursing 
mother. Technic of nursing. Difficulties in breast feeding. Condi- 
tions causing disturbances in lactation. The feeding interval. Amount 
of milk taken at a single feeding and the total 24-hour intake. Nursing 
routine. Indications for taking infant from breast. Weaning. 



1919] OUTLINES OK CHILD CARE 105 

Substitutes for Mother's Milk. Wet nursing. Cow's milk. Rela- 
tive composition and digestibilit)'. Dangers of milk. Pasteurization. 
The question of proprietary foods. Mortality among breast-fed and 
bottle-fed children. Legal protection for expectant and nursing 
mothers. 

Artificial Feeding of Infant. Dilution of cow's milk. Whole milk 
versus cream mixtures. The use of carbohydrates. Preparing the 
food. Equipment. Care of utensils, bottles, and nipples. Amount 
of food. Interval. 

The Care of the Infant. The home surroundings. The nursery. 
Nursery furniture. Bathing. Clothing. Sleep. Fresh air and ven- 
tilation. Play and exercise. Feeding the infant. Training rectum 
and bladder. Daily schedule. Essential health habits. 

Normal Development of the Child. At birth. During infancy and 
childhood. Special senses. Curve of weight and height. Annual 
increment of growth. Characteristics of health. The unusual child. 

Care and Feeding of the Child of Preschool Age. The neglected 
period. Governmental responsibility. Intelligent home care. Regular 
meals. Adequate diet. High death rate from infectious diseases dur- 
ing this period. Cause and prevention of remediable defects. Day 
nurseries. Nursery schools. Children's health conferences. 

Nutrition of the Older Child. Differences in diet of the adult and the 
child. Amount of food needed. Essential foods. Proper food habits. 
Planning the meals. Danger of inadequate diet in the growth period. 
The hot school lunch. Treatment of under nourished children. The 
midmorning meal. Nutrition clinics. 

Educational Hygiene. History and present status. Administra- 
tion. The building. Hygiene of the child. Hygiene of the teacher. 
Medical inspection and the school nurse. 

The Hygiene of the Special Senses and the Teeth. The function and 
care of the eye, ear, nose, and throat. Mouth breathing, and the 
danger of insufficient oxidation. Adenoids — cause, prevention, and 
treatment. The common cold. Diseased tonsils. Ear infections. 
The effect on growth and health of focal infections. Teeth. 

Infectious Diseases. Great menace to childhood. Direct and indirect 
transmission. Symptoms of disease. Outline of care of patient. 
Discussion of diphtheria, tuberculosis, poliomyelitis. 

Children's Diseases. The eruptive fevers, whooping cough, and 
mumps. Community and state control of communicable diseases. 
The necessity of individual cooperation. 

Puberty and Adolescence. Structural changes. Functional changes. 
Mental changes. Disorders and dangers. Sex instruction. Hygiene 
of puberty. Protection of adolescence. 



106 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [March 

Housing and Income. Relation of family income to morbidity and 
mortality. Further effects of low income on child welfare. Minimum 
family income. The home and the child. Housing standards and 
legislation. 

Rural Health Problems. Discussion of the high death rate at birth 
and the large percentage of remediable defects in rural school children. 
Isolation versus overcrowding of the city. Individual responsibility. 
Necessary education as to sanitation, disposal of waste, milk and 
water supply, health habits, and food. Medical inspection and the 
school nurse for rural schools. 

Public Activities to Protect Maternity and Infancy. Federal, state, 
and municipal public health measures. Bureaus of maternal and in- 
fant hygiene. The public health nurse and her possibilities. Consulta- 
tion centers for mothers and children. Other proposed measures for 
adequate protection for child life. 

IV. Child Mentality and Management. 

The Mental Development of Infancy. Study of the equipment with 
which a normal baby comes into the world and what it acquires 
from month to month — the development of an infant's perceptions 
and motor-coordinations. The means which should be provided to 
give the proper range of experience during this period. 

The Psychology of Childhood and Methods of Child Training. The 
mental capacities and the normal interests of children of each age, from 
one year up to twelve. Methods of training explained as based upon 
a knowledge of a child's interests and capacities. 

The Psychology of Adolescence and Vocational Guidance. The change 
of outlook and interest characteristic of the adolescent period and the 
use which should be made of this enlarged social outlook in helping a 
child to form plans for his own future. 

Abnormalities of Mental Development and the Training of Exceptional 
Children. The characteristics of the defective child, the permanently 
retarded child, the temporarily retarded child, and the very superior 
child. Suggestions as to the type of training suitable to each. 

The Relation of Mental Development to Moral Problems. The way 
in which moral dehnquency may occur in case a child's mental develop- 
ment is either too poor or too good for the educational program as- 
signed him. The instances in which apparent moral dehnquency is 
mere mental deficiency. The type of delinquency in normal children 
which is due to mental conflict. 

Management. 



1919] OUTLINES ON CHILD CARE 107 

V. Recreation and Physical Training. 

Philosophy and Theory of Play. Applied to children. 

Nature of Play. Types of play. Leisure-time activities that instinct 
and social life have developed. 

Modern Recreation. I. The rise of movements for group diversions. 
Group play for the young. Organized athletics. Organized dancing, 
drama, etc. The Boy Scout movement, history and meaning. Similar 
work among girls. The new faith in the mimic arts as recreative and 
socially valuable. //. The playground movement. 

Relation of Socialized Play to Modern Industrial Life. Modern stand- 
ards of play. 

Physical Training. 

VT. Child Labor. 

History of Movement for Regulation and Prohibition. 

Social Waste of Child Labor: Physical Deterioration, Poverty, De- 
linquency, Dependency. 

Present Extent of Child Labor. Standardized Child Labor Legislation. 
Administration of Child Labor Laws. Ltidustrial Education and Voca- 
tional Direction. Special Problems of Child Labor. 

Vn. Children in Need of Special Care. 

Causes and Prevention of Child Dependency and Neglect. Lack of 
normal home. Inadequate family income. Parental neglect. Sup- 
plying means of livelihood to families whose breadwinners are absent 
or incapacitated. Adequate family incomes. Enforcement of parental 
responsibility and prevention of neglect. 

Causes and Prevention of Juvenile Delinquency. Environmental. 
Physical and mental. Premature employment or employment under 
morally detrimental conditions. The spirit of adventure and the lack 
of opportunity for wholesome recreation. Maintenance and improve- 
ment of family standards. Community and civic betterment. Provi- 
sion for discovery and treatment of physical and mental abnormalities 
and defects. Enforcement of compulsory education laws and child 
labor laws. Prohibition of premature or detrimental labor. 

The Care of Dependent, Neglected, and Delinquent Children. Types 
of provision. Systems of care. History of the juvenile court move- 
ment. Jurisdiction — delinquent, dependent, and neglected children, 
adults involved, mothers' pensions. Organization. Fundamental prin- 
ciples. The probation system. Training schools and reformatories. 

Children Handicapped Physically or Mentally. Causes of physical 
and mental defects. Types. Treatment. 

Community Organization for Child Helping Work. National, state, 
and local. Work of state and community in which this course is given. 



108 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [March 

THE USE OF DESICCATED EGGS 

LOIS LHAMON 

Laboratory of Experimental Cookery, University of Missouri 

One vital problem which confronts us at present is that of maintain- 
ing a food supply, adequate as to kind and amount. This study of the 
preparation, composition, and use of desiccated or dried eggs is pre- 
sented here in the hope that it may help to make known a compara- 
tively new food product, and suggest ways in which it may be used. 

Eggs, which have for so long been a staple article of food, frequently 
command prices out of proportion to their nutritive value. However 
it is not possible to judge them too closely on this basis alone, since 
because of peculiar characteristics they are valuable in the preparation 
of a great variety of foods, and are considered more or less indispensable. 
If a less expensive product can be substituted for at least a part of the 
fresh eggs used, without loss of nutritive value, a great saving may be 
effected. 

In the commercial handling of eggs there is a tremendous loss due to 
decomposition, and to wastage of the so-called "cracks." The extent 
of the loss is shown by the following figures.' The value of poultry and 
eggs produced in the United States exceeds $620,000,000 a year, 60 
per cent of which represents the value of the eggs alone. In the mar- 
keting of these, 17 per cent are lost, due to broken, dirty, heated, shrunken, 
rotten, and moldy eggs. This 17 per cent loss, interpreted in money, 
amounts to $65,240,000 annually. 

Recently, methods have been devised for the preservation of some of 
these eggs which would otherwise be a complete loss. The two methods 
least open to criticism are freezing or desiccation after removal from 
the shell. Freezing is used quite extensively, but the resulting product 
is bulky, difScult to ship and impracticable for home use, in which we 
are most interested. Desiccation gives a product which is easily handled, 
both commercially and in the home, and is the more satisfactory 
of the two processes. It seems unnecessary to say here that several of 
the above mentioned classes of eggs are unfit for human consumption, 
and that there is no sort of treatment which will render them desirable. 
However 7 per cent of the 17 per cent loss as stated above is due to 

' Improvement of the Farm Egg. H. M. Lamon and C. L. Apperman, U. S. Dept. of 
Agr., Bur. of Animal Industrj', Bui. 141. 



1919] USE OF DESICCATED EGGS 109 

broken and shrunken eggs.- It is the broken eggs, commercially known 
as "checks" or "cracks." and the shrunken or "held" eggs for which 
desiccation is practicable. By the utilization of tliis 7 per cent there 
would result an annual sa\TLng of $4,400,000, as well as the sa\dng of a 
large amount of wholesome food material. 

Preparation of Desiccated Eggs. The commercial desiccation of eggs 
is described by Stiles and Bates, who made an extensive study of the 
process and product.' The egg breaking season is from April 1 to 
October 1 , the bulk of it being done in June and July. In a large estab- 
lishment the eggs are graded by candling, and classified ; and those to be 
used for drjdng are broken with a knife blade or on the edge of a metal 
cup, and the contents put in a vessel according to the grade of the 
egg. The egg material thus obtained is mixed, strained, and again 
mixed by a mechanical devace, and is then ready for drying. There are 
two methods most used at present, either of which is satisfactor}^ By 
the instantaneous method, the eggs are sprayed into a heated chamber 
at a temperature of about 70°C. where they are immediately reduced to 
a fine powder. \\Tien the belt method is used, the egg material is 
dried on an endless belt made of zinc or of galvanized iron. Several 
factors affect the rate of drying in this process : the temperature, usually 
about 60°C, the length of the belt, and the rate of its revolution. One 
layer of egg, a thin film over the entire belt, is usually dried in one 
revolution. After drying several films in this way, the dried material 
is removed and placed in a finisher, where it is further dried at 37-40° 
for two or three hours. The product obtained by this process is very 
satisfactory from the sanitary point of ^^ew, and is more readily soluble 
than that prepared by the instantaneous method. 

Eeallhfidness of Desiccated Eggs. As may be readily seen, there are 
possibilities of adulteration of the product by the addition of foreign 
substances, or by including eggs unfit for food. However, supervision 
by health officials has been put into effect so that a satisfactory product 
may be obtained. Dried eggs are frequently objected to on the ground 
that their bacterial content is so great as to render them unfit for food. 
Maurer discusses in detail the bacterial content of desiccated eggs in 
relation to their effect upon health, and his conclusions may be given 

' Egg Trade of the U. S. M. H. Hastings, U. S. Dept. of Agr., Bur. of Animal Industry, 
Cir. 140. 

' Bacteriological Study of Shell Frozen and Desiccated Eggs. G. W. Stiles and C. Bates, 
U. S. Dept. of Agr., Bur. of Chemistr>', Bui. 158. 



no THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS []\Iarch 

here.'* He states that there is Uttle or no danger to the consumer from 
poisonous decomposition products brought about by non-specific (putre- 
factive) bacteria. The specific, pathogenic bacteria present in desic- 
cated eggs seem, at first, highly objectionable; yet, when we consider 
that the product is used entirely for cooking and baking at a tempera- 
ture high enough to kill the organisms, it appears that danger of infec- 
tion is less than from shell eggs taken as soft cooked, poached, or raw, 
which have not been subjected to a temperature high enough to destroy 
any bacteria present on the shells or in the eggs. 

In connection with the healthfulness of desiccated eggs a word should 
be said concerning the vitamines contained. That both groups of these 
substances are present is shown by the experimental work of McCollum 
and Davis. A diet consisting of 80 per cent polished rice and 20 per 
cent desiccated eggs fed to rats gave "excellent growth and reproduc- 
tion. This shows that the egg contains both fat and water soluble 
accessories."^ This is what one would expect since fresh eggs are rich 
in both of the so-called accessory dietary factors. 

Cost of Dried Eggs. The price of dried eggs was at the time of these 
experiments (spring, 1917) from $0.75 to $1.00 per pound— varying 
with the manufacturer and also the amount purchased. At $0.80 per 
pound the cost of the amount equivalent to a dozen eggs is $0.2526. 
It is quite apparent that the product sold at $0.80 per pound would be 
a comparatively inexpensive food, within reach of the vast majority of 
consumers, and would be a great improvement over the 40 to 50 or 75 
cent eggs of our winter city markets. 

At the present there is practically no retail demand for desiccated 
eggs, and consequently the product is difificult to obtain in the retail 
trade. They are on the market in wholesale quantities. If we are to 
control the prevalent waste of eggs, and thus effect a financial gain to 
both consumer and producer, the first step will be to create a demand 
for dried eggs. This can be accompHshed only by placing the infor- 
mation before the housekeepers themselves, most of whom, we feel safe 
in saying, do not know that there is such a thing as a dried egg product. 
The creation of such a demand would make necessary a more extensive 
application of desiccation to eggs which would otherwise be wasted, and 
would therefore be not an apparent saving by merely making a change 

* Bacteriological Studies on Eggs. O. Maurer, Kans. .-Vgr. Expt. Sta., Bui. 180. 
' Dietary Deficiencies of Rice. E. V. McCollum and M. Davis, Jour. Biol. Chem., Vol. 
23, p. 186. 



1919] USE OF DESICCATED EGGS 111 

of consumers, but would be a real saving effected by the preservation 
to a greater extent of the eggs now wasted. 

The desiccated eggs used in this investigation are in a form suitable for 
retail trade, ha\ang been packed in one pound tin containers. Another 
sample recently obtained and therefore not analyzed with the others, is 
put up in a five pound cardboard container, and in this amount is en- 
tirely satisfactory^ for household purposes. 

Practicability for Home Use. There are several points which may be 
mentioned in favor of the use of dried eggs in the home. At any season 
of the year the consumer may obtain a product of unifonn quality. 
The product in tin or cardboard containers requires very little storage 
room, and no particular care, except that it be kept as cool as possible, 
since the higher temperature tends to lessen the solubility. The dried 
eggs are easily used both in the preparation of foods usually containing 
eggs and in serving alone as a protein rich food, replacing the expensive 
meat products. 

Statement of the Problem. The problem which we have attempted to 
solve presents two phases: (1) the determination of the composition of 
the commercial samples of desiccated eggs, with a view to ascertaining 
whether or not the product is prepared from eggs alone, and how much 
must be used to be equivalent to one egg; (2) the detennination of the 
efficiency of these commercial products in the preparation of foods con- 
taining eggs, as well as the fla^•or and appearance of the foods so 
prepared. 

EXPERIMENTAL WORK 

Analytical. The analytical problem consisted in determining the 
composition of three samples of commercial desiccated eggs which 
were available for this work. The constituents determined in each 
sample are: (a) protein, (b) ash, (c) moisture, and (d) fat. The meth- 
ods used are those of the Association of Official Agricultural Chemists.' 
The results of the analytical work are summarized in the following 
table. 

From this table we are justified in concluding that the Chinese prod- 
uct' is the only one of the three commercial samples examined which 

' OfEcial and Provisional Methods of Analysis. U. S. Dcpt. of Agr., Bur. of Chemistry, 
Bui. 107. 

' Handled by Keith and Company, Boston. 



112 



THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS 



[March 



is made entirely from eggs. The "Egg Powder"^ apparently contains 
almost 20 per cent of added material, part of which, at least, is in 
the form of sucrose, as, indicated by our qualitative tests, as well as 
the statement of the firm.^ The package states that the product con- 
tains "added sugar." The "Baker's Egg"'" apparently contains over 
8 per cent of some added material, although the label states that 
"Baker's Egg is guaranteed to be simply fresh eggs (dried.)" 

Composition of products 



Chinese eggs 
Egg powder . 
Baker's egg. . 



N: 



per cent 

51.68 
41.96 
39.70 



per cent 

3.18 
3.06 

3.25 



HsO 



per cent 

9.08 
3.93 

7.56 



per cent 

36.55 
31.72 
40.95 



per cent 

100.49 
80.67 
91.46 



In order to verify the results obtained in the above analyses, qualita- 
tive tests were appHed to the egg products to show the presence of 
carbohydrates. The results are given below as follows : 

Result of analysis for carbohydrate 



PRODUCT 


STARCH 


REDUCING SUGAR 


SUCROSE 


Chinese eggs 
Egg powder 
Baker's egg 


Not present 
Not present 
Not present 


Not present 
Not present 
Present 


Not present 

Present 

Present (probably) 



The addition of sugar to the desiccated eggs decreases the number of 
bacteria present, so that it may be used to conceal inferiority; also when 
used in the product to the extent of 10 per cent or more it must mate- 
rially cheapen the output. For these reasons added sugar is to be 
looked upon with disfavor. 

In calculating the amount of dried egg which is equivalent to one fresh 
egg, it seems best to base it on the protein content, since many of the 
purposes for which eggs are used, depend in large measure on the pro- 
tein. On this basis one must use 13g. of Chinese Eggs, or 16g. of each 
of the "Baker's Egg" or "Egg Powder" to get an amount equal to that 
contained in an average sized egg. It should be remembered that the 

' Handled and distributed by Merrell-Soule Company, Syracuse, N. Y. 
' This company states that they use 10 per cent of sugar in the preparation of tb 
"Egg Powder." 

'0 Prepared and distributed by the National Baker's Egg Company, Siou.x City, Iowa. 



1919] USE OF DESICCATED EGGS 113 

protein content of fresh eggs as reported by Atwater and Bryant^' 
varies from a minimum of 10 per cent to a maximum of 15.6 per cent 
and therefore the substitution of desiccated for fresh eggs cannot be 
verj' exact. 

Application of the Product in Cooking. The practical problem consists 
in determining the extent to which dried eggs may be substitu- 
ted for fresh ones in the preparation of typical foods; and also the 
attractiveness and palatability of the foods so prepared. 

In using desiccated eggs in cooking a little more foresight is required 
since they are not ready for immediate use. The dried egg to be used 
(one slightly rounded tablespoonful for each egg) should be placed in a 
suitable vessel, with three tablespoons of water to each egg, and the 
whole allowed to stand, covered, for from one-half to three-quarters of 
an hour. If the mixture is stirred or beaten with a fork at intervals, it 
will go into solution more readily. The solution thus obtained re- 
sembles a whole egg removed from the shell with both white and yolk 
beaten up together, and it may be used as such. 

Before discussing the use of desiccated eggs in cooking, it may be well 
to call to mind the essential points in egg cookery. When eggs are used 
alone as a protein rich food, the object in cooking is to coagulate the 
protein and develop the flavor, thus making them more palatable. 
Eggs are frequently used as a means of thickening mixtures of the cus- 
tard t>-pe — either the soft or firm custards, and their use here depends 
upon the coagulation of the protein. In batters and doughs eggs are 
used to give rigidity to the cells of the product when it is cooked or 
baked, and here again the object is accomphshed by the coagulation of 
the protein. Furthermore eggs may be used as a means of incorporat- 
ing air or other gases which give lightness to the finished product. Eggs 
are used in two types of salad dressings, those which have a custard 
basis, and those in which the egg emulsifies the oil. The principle 
involved in the preparation of the first of the salad dressings is the same 
as that for custards. The oil dressing depends upon the emulsification 
of the oil by the egg. 

Scrambled Eggs — Omelets. The dried eggs are very satisfactory for 
use in scrambled eggs or in the plain or French omelets in which yolk 
and white are not separated. The material is brought into solution as 
described above, and cooked just as one would cook the fresh eggs. 

"Chemical Composition of American Food Materials. W. A. .'itwater and A. P. 
Br>-ant, U S. Dept. of Agr., Bur. of Chemistry, Bui. 128. 



114 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [March 

For ser\-ing as a protein rich food, in place of meat, a verj' good plan is 
to soak the eggs in skim milk rather than water, thus adding to the 
food value. 

Custards. The dried eggs were used in making custards, both of the 
"soft" and "hard" type, using the ordinary proportions for custards. 
From the standpoints of appearance and consistency, both tj-pes of 
custards were very satisfactory; however, there is a marked difference 
in the taste between the fresh and dried egg custards. The latter are 
characterized by a peculiar taste which may be described as an "after- 
taste;" yet some individuals preferred the custard made from the 
Chinese dried eggs to the one made with fresh eggs. 

The successful use of desiccated eggs in the preparation of custards 
suggests their further use in all sorts of desserts of the custard t>'pe or 
with a custard basis. 

Muffins and Popovers. Mufnns were made using the standard pro- 
portions and it was impossible to distinguish between those made from 
fresh and dried eggs. The same is true of popovers. Here again the 
successful use of the dried eggs suggests its further use in other soft 
doughs and batters. 

Cakes. Four "butter" cakes, or cakes in which some kind of fat is 
used, were made, using the standard proportions of materials. Those 
made from the commerciaj dried eggs were compared with one made 
from fresh eggs and were equally satisfactory from the standpoints of 
appearance, texture, and flavor. 

It is possible to make a fairly satisfactory sponge cake, using the 
dried eggs in place of the fresh. However, when this is done, one must 
use baking powder, since it is not possible to incorporate air in the egg 
white as is the case in making sponge cake from the fresh eggs. One 
half teaspoon of baking powder is needed as a substitute for the air 
incorporated in each egg white. 

The desiccated eggs were also used in making cream puff shells, and 
the finished product compared favorably in every way with that made 
from fresh eggs. 

Salad Dressings. Cooked salad dressings made according to the 
usual proportions, substituting dried for fresh eggs, were satisfactory. 
Several attempts were made to prepare good oil dressings with the dried 
egg products, but each attempt was unsuccessful. This seems to be 
due to the fact that, even with prolonged soaking and frequent bearing, 
it is not possible to get the material sufficiently dissolved so that it 



1919] NEtt'ER KNOWLEDGE OF NI'TRITIOX 115 

will permanently emulsif)' the oil. Only a temporary emulsion could 
be obtained, the oil separating out very quickly. This is not of great 
practical importance, since, as has been pointed out above, the bacterial 
content of the desiccated eggs is such as to render them unsafe for 
use without prcAious heating. 

SXraUIARY OF CONCLUSIONS 

1. Satisfactory' desiccated egg products may now be obtained. 

2. According to the references quoted above, the bacterial content 
is not such as to prove detrimental to health when used in cooked foods. 

3. Their use even at the present price will effect a considerable saving 
throughout a large part of the year. If the price can be lowered, dried 
eggs will become a comparatively cheap source of both fuel and protein. 

4. The composition as determined by analysis shows that the com- 
mercial products examined are prepared from eggs, one without the 
addition of carbohydrate, and the other two with added sugar. The 
percentage composition of the three samples varies as follows: protein 
39.70, 41.96, 51.68; ash 3.25, 3.06, 3.18; fat 40.95, 31.72, 36.55; moisture 
7.56, 3.93, 9.08. Those samples in which the protein and moisture are 
low are the ones to which carbohydrate has been added, and the one 
which is verj' low in moisture content is the one in which the largest 
amount of sugar has been used. 

5. The desiccated eggs may be used with highly satisfactory results 
in the preparation of practically all t}T)ical foods in which eggs are used. 



"THE NEWER KNOWLEDGE OF NUTRITION"i 

M.\RY SW.\RTZ ROSE 

This book is an exceedingly interesting monograph on the author's 
investigations in a field which has been generally engaging the atten- 
tion of students of nutrition for the last decade. Such investigations 
have added some invaluable facts to our previous loiowledge of dietary 

' "The Newer Knowledge of Nutrition." By E. V. McCollum. The Macmillan Com- 
pany, 1918, pp. 199. SI. 50. 



116 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [March 

essentials, enabling us to select food with more intelligence than ever 
before. It is highly iinportant that the student and the teacher of home 
economics appreciate these new aspects of nutrition, and fortunate that 
Professor McCoUum has embodied his own work in so delightful a 
treatise. 

It has long been recognized that chemical composition alone furnishes 
no true criterion of the nutritive value of a food material, and this posi- 
tion is amply supported in the present work. Feeding experiments with 
purified food materials, both here and abroad, long since revealed tliat 
proteins, fats, carbohydrates, ash constituents and calories did not pro- 
vide the last word in the science of nutrition, and led eventually to the 
discovery of \itamines. The way in which these substances have been 
discovered and their role in diet, are briefly but clearly explained in the 
book under consideration. 

To Professor McCollum we owe a very clear formulation of the essen- 
tials of an adequate diet. In his own words: 

"The diet must contain, in addition to the long recognized dietary 
factors, viz.: protein; a source of energy in the form of proteins, carbo- 
hj'drates, and fats; a suitable supply of certain inorganic salts; two as 
yet unidentified substances or groups of substances. One of these is 
associated with certain fats, and is especially abundant in butter fat, 
egg yolk fats, and the fats of the glandular organs such as the liver and 
kidney, but is not foimd in any fats or oils of vegetable origin. The 
second substance or group of substances of chemically unidentified na- 
ture is never associated with fats or oils of either animal or vegetable 
origin. It is widely distributed in natural foods, and can be isolated 
in a concentrated, but not in a pure form, from natural foodstuffs by 
extraction of the latter with either water or alcohol." 

This book gives in interestmg detail the results of some of Professor 
McCollum's very extensive investigations regarding the place of com- 
mon foods in the diet, and points out the close resemblance in dietary 
properties of food materials derived from a common source. For ex- 
ample, studies on white com flour, rolled oats, r>'e, barley, Kafir corn, 
millet and flaxseed, peas, navy and soy beans, demonstrate that foods 
of this type tend to be deficient in the quaUty of their proteins; in cal- 
ciiun, chlorine, sodium; and in the fat-soluble vitamine. Hence the 
author concludes that it is not possible to secure appreciable growth in 
young animals fed exclusively upon seed products as the sole source of 
nutrition. 



1919] NEWER KNOWLEDGE OF NUTRITION 117 

It is shown further that leaves and seeds together make a much better 
food than seeds alone, the combination being utilized fairly satisfactorily 
for animals, inasmuch as the leaf is especially rich in those mineral ele- 
ments in which the seed is poorest, and contains much more of the fat- 
soluble vitamine than any seed, and proteins which appear to supple- 
ment and enhance the value of the seed proteins with which they are 
combined. "The leaf supplements therefore all the nutritive deficien- 
cies of the seed, but not necessarily in a highly satisfactory manner. 
. The freer tlie leaf is from the function of storage tissue, 

the more intensified will be its leaf properties as a food 

The fleshly leaves tend to have in some degree the dietary properties of 
the seed, and stand intermediate between the leaves which are thin and 
dry easily and the seed in this respect." Roots and tubers, being stor- 
age organs, are similar to seeds in their dietary properties. 

A chapter is devoted to a discussion of the vegetarian diet, and shows 
that while very carefully selected combinations of seed and leaf will 
secure fairly good nutrition, omnivera do not attain the optimum growth 
on diets derived entirely from vegetable sources. We are indebted to 
Professor McCollum for abundant evidence that one of the tests of an 
adequate diet is its abihty, not only to support the adult animal in 
health, but to enable it to produce a second generation as vigorous as the 
first, and this second generation in its turn to produce equally vigorous 
offspring. Thus our standards of food for good nutrition have been dis- 
tinctly raised, as the far-reaching effects of bad feeding have been im- 
pressed upon us. 

The preeminent value of milk and the minor importance of meat are 
brought out in the chapter on Foods of Animal Origin. Ever since Hop- 
kins found that small quantities of milk had a remarkable effect on the 
well-being of animals fed otherwise on purified food materials, and Os- 
borne & Mendel discovered that protein from milk made efficient for 
growth diets othei^wise unsuccessful, the dietary properties of milk have 
been diligently investigated. Every one familiar with this work must 
agree with the author in ranking milk as our most important foodstuff, 
"because the composition of milk is such that, when used in combina- 
tion with other food-stuffs of either animal or vegetable origin, it corrects 
their dietary deficiencies." 

Diseases associated with faulty diet (beri-beri, xerophthalmia, scurvy, 
pellagra, and rickets) are interestingly discussed and some very practi- 
cal suggestions for investigation in this field of nutrition are made. 



118 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [March 

One of the most suggestive chapters is that on "The Nursing Mother 
as a Factor of Safety in the Nutrition of the Suckhng," in which the 
autlior shows the great importance of an adequate diet and especially of 
liberal amounts of milk for the lactating woman. 

There are many interesting considerations in the chapter on the plan- 
ning of the diet, but one is tempted to take some exception to the state- 
ment that it is fallacious to com.pare foods on the basis of money value, 
since a verj' large proportion of the population is forced to select foods in 
the light of their cost. It would seem reasonable to say that the food 
which will give the most dietary' essentials for the money spent is the 
cheapest food. Since energy makes the largest demand for food, and 
since the other dietary factors can in the main be secured along with the 
energy, in any valuation of food a large allowance must be made for its 
energy yield. In the words of Armsby: 

"While it is true that a due supply of mineral matter, proteins, and 
vitamines in the food is equally essential, it is not, from the present 
point of view, equally important, since comparatively slight modifica- 
tions in a diet supplying sufhcient energy can ordinarily remedy defi- 
ciencies in this respect." 

Shennan, in "Chemistry of Food and Nutrition," pp. 391,396, has 
proposed a verj' interesting method of detennining the economic value 
of foods of different tj^Des which the student of nutrition will do well to 
consider carefully. Such an estimation will show, concretely, what Pro- 
fessor McCollum himself points out, that milk, while relatively high in 
fuel value, protein, mineral constituents (except iron), and vitamines, 
is a comparatively cheap food, even at its present price. So, too, soy 
beans and peanuts, which among seeds are high in fuel value and protein, 
relatively high in mineral constituents and vitamines of both tj-pes, will 
take less supplementing than other seeds and so may be regarded as 
cheaper than other foods of their class whose price per pound is the same. 

It would give the beginner in this field a better conception of the sci- 
entific work which has led to the conclusions so succinctly stated, if, while 
reviewing his owti work, Professor McCollum had put in more references 
to the work of his contemporaries along the same lines. 

This is to be regarded as an epoch-making book in the field of popular 
literature in nutrition, and should be widely read. 



1919] \A-H.4T IS EXPERUIEXTAL COOKERY? 119 

WTIAT IS EXPERIMENTAL COOKERY? 

MIMNA C. DENTON 
Office of Home Economics, United States Department of Agriculture 

Needless to say, the course which has been developed so well in some 
of our colleges and universities is not fancy cooker\-; nor is it a random 
groping about for successful recipes. Rather, it concerns itself with the 
patient development, one by one, of the principles upon which the suc- 
cessful recipe (consciously or unconsciously) is based. 

In this fundamental study of underlying principles, the following 
points are to be carefully observed: 

1. All of the variants which enter into the problem must be recognized 
and prescribed. It is usually the case that they are not entirely under- 
stood in the begiiming, but their list must be completed before the work 
is finished. It is the large niunber of these variants, in many cooking 
processes, which sometimes makes standardization so difficult. To il- 
lustrate with a fairly simple case: suppose one is studying the amount 
of fat taken up by an egg fried in bacon fat. Conceivably the Hst of 
variants would include size, composition, and condition of egg (particu- 
larly proportion of yolk and richness of yolk, since fat in the material 
fried appears to attract and hold a large proportion of fat in the process 
of frjing); composition and condition of the fat; initial temperature of 
the fat when the egg is put in; temperature to which the fat falls after 
eggs are added (dependent on the number of eggs fried simultaneously) ; 
rate at which this temperature rises during the cooking process (depend- 
ent in part upon the rate at which heat is applied, in part upon the mate- 
rial of which the utensil is made, as well as upon other factors) ; depth of 
fat and extent to which it covers the egg; amount of surface which the 
egg exposes to the fat, whether in thin or thick layers; length of time of 
frjing; details of manipulation (whether egg is turned, or basted, or 
drained, etc.). All of these conditions, so far as possible, should be 
noted, and so described that it would be possible for others, who might 
at sometime wish to repeat the experiments, to work upon the same 
basis by following the account of what was done. 

2. In an experiment to determine the efi'ect of any given factor, all of 
the variants must be stabilized except that one: e.g., if it be desired to 
find the effect of soft-cooking or hard-cooking an egg upon the amount 
of fat absorbed, pains must be taken to cook two similar eggs in the same 



120 THE JOURNAL OF HOJiE ECONOMICS [March 

skillet, with tlie same amount and kind and temperature of fat, spreading 
them in exactly similar shape and form, keeping the temperature uniform 
after the stage at which the soft egg comes out, and handling them in 
exactly the same way in every respect except that the second egg is 
turned over and remains longer in the fat. Each egg then serves as a 
"control" or basis of comparison for the other. 

In work with batters and doughs, all fats, flours, and meals should be 
provided in sufficient amounts so that one lot only will be used tlirough- 
out the whole set of experiments, since there is very considerable varia- 
tion among different samples of such commodities. 

3. All materials must be measured by weight, as a general rule. Even 
carefully trained workers are not able always to measure exactly dupli- 
cated cups of flour or corimieal, tablespoonfuls of milk, or teaspoonfuls 
of soda; the size of eggs, potatoes, lemons, apples, etc., varies consider- 
ably; J cup of butter as ordinarily measured in a cup may vary anjTvhere 
from 3 to 5 ounces, or still more widely. 

4. The end point sought must be a sharp one and one capable of exact 
determination if possible. In the instance given above the weight of fat 
absorbed is determined with a fair degree of accuracy by weighing the 
fat before and after the egg is cooked. Thus the ' end-point" is a 
weight, and is an absolutely definite and distinct determination. But 
often this is not the case in experimental cooking; e.g., in ascertaining 
the optimum amounts of various fats to be substituted in cake-making 
for 2 ounces of butter, our end-point determination is the comparative 
"richness" of two cakes — a matter of judgment, in which the discrimina- 
tive powers of individuals vary greatly. Wherever possible, however, 
such judgments must be supplanted or at least supplemented by meas- 
urements of a purely objective character; e.g., visual judgment as to 
which of 2 loaves of bread has risen more may be replaced by exact 
measurements of volume and computation of specific volume or ^•olume 
per gram or per pound. 

5. All tests and trials of any given factor should be repeated, at least 
in duplicate, and duplicates should check within 2 per cent, unless one 
is forced to deal with measurements in which highly variable constitu- 
ents are large factors, as, for example, the water and fat content of milk. 
These are so far from being uniform, as to cause considerable fluctuation 
in the determination of its calorific value and of some other "constants." 
In such a case as this, the tolerance may need to be increased, say to 5 
per cent. 



1919] \XUAT IS EXPERIMENTAL COOKERY? 121 

6. The method used should be checked in all possible ways, and this 
often puts a strain on the experimenter's resourcefulness and ingenuity. 
Bomb calorimeter determinations may be re-inforced by chemical analy- 
ses for protein, fat, and carbohydrate. Fat absorption into fried food 
may be determined by loss of fat from the original stock of fat, or by fat 
analyses of the food material before and after frjang. All available lit- 
erature, both American and foreign, should be searched for the results 
of other investigators engaged upon similar work; the student should 
famiharize herself vdih the various indexes and files hkely to contain 
material useful to her. 

7. Generalizarions should be made from as much data as possible. 
The variation in many products and materials from one locality or 
season to another, the diversity of manipulation among indi\'iduals, 
must be explicitly taken into account whenever experimentation can be 
made to include all these and other elements or causes of variation. 
Thus is a really valuable and "practical" generalization patiently built 
up. 

8. .\n important detail, sometimes overlooked by beginners, concerns 
the necessity for keeping permanently the original records of each day's 
work made at the time the work is done. Suppose that one is working 
for increased volume of loaf in bread making, trying to duplicate, in 
that respect, the results which some conmiercial bakers get. In a long 
series of records, very likely a few stand out as imaccountably high or 
low. One needs then to be able to turn back to the sheet which records 
that day's work, upon which any irregularity of procedure or peculiarity 
in results will be noted, such as could not be included in tabulated sum- 
maries. If the observer is sufficiently alert to everything that hap- 
pens and the record sufficiently faithful, there is then a good chance to 
discover some new and hitherto unsuspected variant which may prove 
to be of importance. 

9. Aside from the difficulty of establishing a sharp end-point, perhaps 
the most vexing source of difficulties in many problems of experimental 
cooker^' is in analyzing and standardizing the effect of various sorts of 
household manipulation. It would seem, for instance, that results ob- 
tained in baking one loaf of bread of average size should be applicable to 
a batch of four loaves, if all ingredients be multiplied by 4, and the pro- 
cedure be the same; yet this is not necessarily the case. Those who have 
baked experimental loaves of a fairly stiff barley and wheat dough (25 
per cent barley or more) have (in some cases at least) obser\'ed that when 



122 



THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS 



[March 



the large batch is mixed by the same recipe it seems at first impossible to 
knead in all of the flour; i.e., the softening efifect of kneading upon the 
barley dough becomes apparent much sooner in case of the small batch 
than in case of the large one, because the manipulation of the small 
mass is relatively more thorough, in equal lengths of time. 

The following form illustrates an attempt to record in tabular form 
most of the variables encountered in judging and cooking dried vege- 
tables. Further analyses of cooking processes from the same standpoint 
will be presented at some future time. 

Form for report on cooking of dried vegetables or fruits 



DESCRIPTION or 

\t:getable 


DESCRIPTION OP DRYING 

AND 

STORING PROCESSES 


WEIGHT AND 
MEASURE 
OF DRIED VEGE- 
TABLES 


AMOUNT AND 
TEMPER-ATURE 

OF HlO 
FOR SOAKING 
AND COOKING 


TIME SOAKED AND 
COOKED 


Irish potatoes; Eariy 
Rose Standard no. 
1; dug in July; dried 
in November; dry 
weight is 40 per cent 
of raw 


Sliced i inch; blanched 
5 minutes in boil- 
ing water; dried 8 
hours; sealed in tin 


2 OZ. or i 
cup 


1 cup, 15°C. 
Cooked in 
same 
water 


Soaked 22 hours; 
cooked 10 
minutes 


Spinach; no. 3233; dry 
weight is 8 per cent 
of raw 


Cut in slices; dried 
raw 2 hours; 140° 
to 160° F. May 7, 
1918; paraffined 
paper bags 


0.187SOZ. 


\ cup; boil- 
ing at 

start 


Soaked 2 hours; 
cooked in 
double boiler 
20 minutes 


WEIGHT ATTER 
AND COOKED 


SOAKING OR 

COOKING 

H:0 DISCARDED 


ADDITIONAL COOKING 


NUMBER ; ND WEIGHT 


DATE OF COOKING TEST 
REMARKS 


Soaked, 5 
oz.; cooked, 

Sioz. 


No, boiled 
away 


Added IJ per cent 
salt;* 10 per cent 
onion;* slightly 
browned 


2 servings, 2 oz. 
each 


February 8, 1918; a lit- 
tle pastry when pota- 
toes are mashed; fair- 
ly good flavor when 
cooked as above 


2oz. 


No, mostly 
absorbed 


Added IJ cups milk; 
3J T. flour; 35 T. 
oleo; salt, pepper 


3 servings, 6 oz. 
each 


October 12, 1918; al- 
most tasteless; (had 
been dried 5 months; 
was delicious when 3 
months dried) 



* Computed on basis of weight of cooked vegetable. 

The above form was designed with a view to recording the ease of 
cooking and the palatabilitj' of dried products when cooked by various 



1919] CENTIGRADE SCALE COMPARED WITH FAHRENHEIT 123 

methods, and making possible the calculation of dietetic values of the 
cooked vegetable as eaten. 

1. The nature of the cooldng process should be plainly indicated and 
taken into account when considering either favorable or unfavorable im- 
pressions described by the testers who sample the finished product. For 
example, a dried potato, which has fallen ofT in flavor considerably, may 
yet be made into a fairly palatable or even attractive dish by the skillful 
addition of seasonings and accessories, such as cream sauce, or cheese and 
buttered bread crumb coverings; whereas its inferiority would be evident 
to all if it had been mashed with a little milk or butter, in the usual 
fashion. 

2. Is the cooked dried vegetable, as served, dietetically the equal of 
the cooked fresh vegetable with respect to (a) calories, (b) protein, (c) 
mineral salt content, (d) \dtamine, or anti-scorbutic content? In order to 
answer the first three of these questions, one must keep strict account of 
changes in water content (as indicated in the form here suggested) and 
also of any extraction of soluble nutrients by discarding the water in 
which these products are soaked or cooked. 

3. Is there a progressive deterioration of flavor, color, and cooking 
qualities, as the dried products age? Is such deterioration (if any) inde- 
pendent of methods used in drj.'ing and storing the product? Is it pos- 
sible to keep dried vegetables in prime condition, in the home, for a 
period as long as 8 months? 

4. Are most dried vegetables as satisfactorily cooked by plunging them 
at once into boiling water, without any soaking whatever, as by more 
usual methods? 



CENTIGRADE SCALE COMPARED WITH FAHRENHEIT* 
Range, -29°C. (-20°F.) to 309°C. (588°F.) 

Illustrations. To convert 178°C. to Fahrenheit scale: Find 17 in the 
extreme left-hand column, proceed on this horizontal line to the column 
headed 8; 352°F. corresponds to 178°C. 

Similarly, to convert 3°F. to the Centigrade reading: Find 3 in the 
series of Fahrenheit readings, run horizontally along this line to the 

'From the Experimental Laboratory, OflBce of Home Economics, U. S. Dept. of Agr. 



124 



THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS 



[March 



left, and it will be seen that — 1 begins the desired number; at the top 
of the column in which 3°F. is placed, the second figure, 6, will be found. 
3°F. corresponds to — 16°C. 



°c. 


1 


2 


3 


4 


' 


6 


7 


8 


9 




°F. 


"P. 


°F. 


°F. 


°F. 


°F. 


°F. 


"F. 


°F. 


°F. 


-2 


-4 


-6 


-8 


-9 


-11 


-13 


-15 


-17 


-18 


-20 


-1 


14 


12 


10 


9 


7 


5 


3 


1 





-2 


-0 


32 


30 


28 


27 


25 


23 


21 


19 


18 


16 





32 


34 


36 


37 


39 


41 


43 


45 


46 


48 


1 


50 


52 


54 


55 


57 


59 


61 


63 


64 


66 


2 


68 


70 


72 


73 


75 


77 


79 


81 


82 


84 


3 


86 


88 


90 


91 


93 


95 


97 


99 


100 


102 


4 


104 


106 


108 


109 


111 


113 


115 


117 


118 


120 


5 


122 


124 


126 


127 


129 


131 


133 


135 


136 


138 


6 


140 


142 


144 


145 


147 


149 


151 


153 


154 


156 


7 


158 


160 


162 


163 


165 


167 


169 


171 


172 


174 


8 


176 


178 


180 


181 


183 


185 


187 


189 


190 


192 


9 


194 


196 


198 


199 


201 


203 


205 


207 


208 


210 


10 


212 


214 


216 


217 


219 


221 


223 


225 


226 


228 


11 


230 


232 


234 


235 


237 


239 


241 


243 


244 


246 


12 


248 


250 


252 


253 


255 


257 


259 


261 


262 


264 


13 


266 


268 


270 


271 


273 


275 


277 


279 


280 


282 


14 


284 


286 


288 


289 


291 


293 


295 


297 


298 


300 


IS 


302 


304 


306 


307 


309 


311 


313 


315 


316 


318 


16 


320 


322 


324 


325 


327 


329 


331 


333 


334 


336 


17 


338 


340 


342 


343 


345 


347 


349 


351 


352 


354 


18 


356 


358 


360 


361 


363 


365 


367 


369 


370 


372 


19 


374 


376 


378 


379 


381 


383 


385 


387 


388 


390 


20 


392 


394 


396 


397 


399 


401 


403 


405 


406 


408 


21 


410 


412 


414 


415 


417 


419 


421 


423 


424 


426 


22 


428 


430 


432 


433 


435 


437 


439 


441 


442 


444 


23 


446 


448 


450 


451 


453 


455 


457 


459 


460 


462 


24 


46t 


466 


468 


469 


471 


473 


475 


477 


478 


480 


25 


482 


484 


486 


487 


489 


491 


493 


495 


496 


498 


26 


500 


502 


504 


505 


507 


509 


511 


513 


514 


516 


27 


518 


520 


522 


523 


525 


527 


529 


531 


532 


534 


28 


536 


538 


540 


541 


543 


545 


547 


549 


550 


552 


29 


554 


556 


558 


559 


561 


563 


565 


567 


568 


570 


30 


572 


574 


576 


577 


579 


581 


583 


585 


586 


588 



FOR THE HOMEMAKER 

VISITING HOUSEKEEPING WITH THE JENSONS 

RUTH BOWEN 
Visiting Eausekeeper, Associated Charities, Lansing, Michigan 

A father twenty-two, a mother twenty, and five babies under four — 
such was the personnel of the Jensens when they first became known to 
the \'isiting Housekeeper. Four boys — John, a solemn youngster of 
three and a half, seemingly already weighed by his responsibilities as 
eldest brother; Peter, an irresistible curly head of two; the twins, just 
past one; and the new baby sister, Olga. They lived, all seven of them, 
in a tiny two-room tar paper shanty measuring altogether only ten by 
fourteen feet. The three small windows were nailed shut in the fall and 
taken out for the spring house-cleaning. Every drop of water used had 
to be carried a long half block up hill. 

Mr. Jenson, a Scandina\ian by birth, could neither read nor write, 
even in his own language. He had a good work record as an unskilled 
laborer, and was really very anxious to do the best thing for his family. 
Low wages and the seasonal nature of his occupation (street graveling, 
coal hauling, and similar work) causing periodic unemployment, had 
made the task of providing for his rapidly growing family one that re- 
quired much more careful management than he could give. In accord- 
ance with the old custom of his country, he handled the family pocket- 
book. His \vife often did not know the amount of his wages. Mrs. 
Jenson, an American girl, had left the grade school at fifteen to be mar- 
ried. She knew nothing of the simplest rudiments of the house- 
hold arts although she was very willing to accept instruction. 
All the children were undernourished, the twins particularly so. 
Although past a year old they had made no attempt to creep or walk, 
partly because they had never had the right sort of food for developing 
the requisite bone and muscle, and partly because there was not room 
on the floor of the shanty for them to learn. 

125 



126 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [March 

The family had been referred to the Associated Charities for visiting 
housekeeper care by the visiting nurse who had given nursing care at 
the time of the baby's birth. They had not previously been known to 
any social agency in the city. 

The Visiting Housekeeper's most natural entrance into the family was 
through the need of a supervised diet for the children. With the coop- 
eration of the visiting nurse they were taken to the Children's Clinic. 
There it was found that the trouble was entirely one of malnutrition, 
and a special diet, including milk and oranges, was prescribed for them. 
With oranges a dollar a dozen, diamonds would have been about as easy 
for the father to provide. Milk also, even the two quarts and a half a 
day which was the minimum for the five babies, was a heavy burden for 
Mr. Jenson who was experiencing one of his frequent periods of unem- 
plojTnent, and who shared the popular working-class prejudice that milk 
is a luxury. 

A half dozen oranges a week were secured from one source, three quarts 
of milk daily from another, and the visiting housekeeper went in to 
teach the planning and preparation of the simple menus. Mrs. Jenson 
learned to bake her own bread, to prepare oatmeal, to bake apples, and to 
prepare other inexpensive and wholesome food. Everything was first 
prepared under supervision of the visiting housekeeper in the home, then 
Mrs. Jenson was urged to do the work independently. She followed in- 
structions faithfully and learned readily, and soon became able to use a 
printed recipe without supervision. The children started to gain, but 
any normal progress was impossible under the housing conditions. 

When the question of moving into a better house was broached, the 
whole problem of finances came up. Mr. Jenson was buying the small 
lot where he lived for ten dollars a month, but was back eight months 
in his payments. It would not have been worth while to try to make 
up these payments, as the lot was undesirable and the house impossible. 
Through the efforts of the visiting housekeeper a suitable five room cot- 
tage was found in a desirable neighborhood. It could be bought on 
contract for $1300.00, with a cash payment of $100.00 and a monthly 
payment of $12.00. 

Besides the $80.00 for back rent the Jensons owed $109.35 at twelve 
different credit and furniture stores. They had with sublime optimism 
purchased goods at one store after another, making the initial payment 
and perhaps two or three subsequent ones; then, under pressure of other 
needs, they allowed the payments to lapse. They were not in any sense 



1919] VISITING HOUSEKEEPING 127 

professional "dead beats" but the twan e\-ils of unlimited credit and lack 
of financial sense had involved them almost hopelessly in debt. Mr. 
Jenson's wages had been gamisheed once, and other creditors were threat- 
ening. Some financial backing must be found for the famity if they were 
to get on their feet again. The following plan was finally worked out. 
The Associated Charities advanced $100.00 for the first payment on the 
new house as a loan without interest. In return, Mr. Jenson made an 
assignment of his entire wages to the Associated Charities, to be handled 
under the super^^sion of the visiting housekeeper. This protected him 
against further garnishee, served as a steadying influence, and also gave 
the Associated Charities some security for their loan. 

Fortunately at about tliis time Mr. Jenson secured a steady job pay- 
ing S3 .00 a day, which later was increased to $4.00. A budget was 
worked out pro\aduig for food, clothing, and sundries for the family. A 
copy of the assignment was taken to the em^ployer by the visiting house- 
keeper, and through his cooperation the amount estimated as necessary 
for those items was paid to Mr. Jenson and the balance to the Associated 
Charities to be used by the \asiting housekeeper for rent and back debts. 
With this plan as a background, the \isiting housekeeper interviewed 
the creditors who with almost uniform readiness accepted her promise 
that the debts would be paid pro rata and as fast as possible. The former 
landlord on hearing the story cancelled $40.00 of the $80.00 due him. 
Another creditor, who had started garnishee proceedings agreed to sus- 
pend them for a reasonable length of time. 

The first of April the Jensons moved into their new home. To Mrs. 
Jenson its two greatest charms are that it has two bedrooms and that 
the pump is right at the back door. Under more favorable influences 
she is developing into a fairly efficient housewife. Last summer she 
bought a second hand sewing machine for $2.50. After much effort 
and equally patient instruction, she has achieved two pairs of rompers, 
a dress, and a petticoat. Now that she has mastered the rudiments of 
patterns, scissors, and machine, her progress promises to be more rapid. 

In the six months since the present iinancial arrangement went into 
effect Mr. Jenson has met every- month the $12.00 payment on his 
house, has repaid $21.00 of the $100.00 loaned him by the Associated 
Charities, has paid $28.91 on his back debts and has contributed $5.00 
to the Red Cross War Fund. He has changed jobs several times and 
is now earning $19.00 per week. The assignment while still nominally 
in force, has not been sent to his present employer, as it seems wiser to 



128 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [March 

allow Mr. Jenson to draw his entire pay check and paj' a stated siun 
weekly to the Associated Charities. 

Best of all, with plenty of fresh air and plain wholesome food the 
twins, and the small baby sister as well, have learned to walk, and all 
five babies are developing into healthy childliood. The family has now 
been under \-isiting housekeeper care for a Kttle more than a year and 
promises to need supervision for at least that much longer. During this 
period visits mmibering as many as eight and ten a week have been made, 
including one or two night \'isits, necessary because Mr. Jenson can be 
seen only after working hours. Almost every phase of visiting house- 
keeping supervision has been needed. A budget was planned for the 
family. Accounts have been kept and expenditures supervised. Mrs. 
Jenson has been taught cooking and sewing by personal instruction in 
her home. She is also a member of a neighborhood sewing class, meet- 
ing weekly. The \'isiting housekeeper has helped Mrs. Jenson plan her 
menus and her grocery order, and has gone shopping with her. 

Because of Mr. Jenson's lowered wages, the need for bu}'ing fuel, and 
the higher cost of food, the amount now handled by the visiting house- 
keeper provides only for rent and insurance ; but later in the spring when 
Mr. Jenson can get road work at $4.00 and $4.50 a day, he will resume 
paj-ments on his back debts. He is so well pleased with his progress that 
he has asked the visitmg housekeeper to continue her friendly super- 
vision even after his debts have been paid, and to help him start a sa\ings 
account. 



WISE SPENDING 

R. G. BLAKEY 
Professor of Economics, University of Minnesota 

Wise spending implies the balancing of all needs and of all means of 
meeting these needs and, after balancing needs against means, spending 
in such a way as to meet the most urgent wants, even if lesser ones have 
to be left unsatisfied. In essence it means a sort of budget making. 
When a family, city, or state makes a budget, what it does is to take a 
comprehensive view of both needs and income. It is important that 
not all of the income be spent on the first needs that may occur lest other 



1919] WISE SPENDING 129 

more urgent needs appear and no funds be left to meet them. Thought 
must be taken that available income is applied intelhgently and wisely 
to cover most important needs and to satisfy them somewhat in pro- 
portion to their relative importance. 

Perhaps the most important and difficult problem in connection 
with wise spending is to realize the relative importance of future as com- 
pared with present needs. It is very foohsh to neglect the urgent 
necessities of today for the petty wants of the morrow, but only misers 
and a few other people need very much persuasion to induce them to 
take care of the present. But where most of us are foolish or unwise 
is in satisfying petty wants of the present rather than sa\'ing in order 
that urgent needs of the future may be met. 

Sa\ing, per se, is of no special advantage. When people save in- 
stead of spend, what they really do is to save for a chance to spend for 
something worth more later; so in the last analysis ever}^thing is spent. 
This means that it is worth while, even in a "sa\'ings campaign," to 
talk more about spending than about saving. 

Since the world is so large that it is difficult for us to see it as a whole, 
it may make matters clearer, perhaps, if we assimie the world to be a 
small commtmity, a sort of Swiss Family Robinson community on an 
Island. If this community had a certain amount of wheat, sugar, or 
clothing, it would be foolish to use none of it today and save it all for 
the last of the year. On the other hand, it would be just as foolish to 
use all of it at once and have nothing for the remaining months. The 
wise thing to do would be to estimate the needs throughout the year 
and to distribute the supplies over its entire length. The more the 
people of this community can produce during the year in addition to 
the stores they had on hand at the beginning, the more they can use in 
the present, and also the more they will have for each day of the year. 
The more risks there are, whether of bad seasons, hurricanes, accidents, 
sickness or other misfortunes, the less the amoimt that should be used 
now and the greater the amount that should be saved for later parts of 
the year. 

We may imagine this community to be a very primitive one, with- 
out any capital, or with a small amount of capital, which it wants to 
increase. The only way to do this would be to devote only part of its 
energies to the producing of goods that would be consumed currently 
and to devote the other part to the building of houses, machines, or 
railroads, which would not be consumed currently, but which in time 



130 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [March 

would result in the production of a much greater quantity of goods for 
consumption; in other words, the sacrifice of some goods in the present 
would result later in the making of instruments which would yield many 
times as many commodities as were sacrificed earlier. That is, the 
building up of capital requires taking thought for the morrow as well 
as for the present, wise spending in the present, and the saving of what 
can be most easily dispensed with now for the sake of a larger product 
later. This is necessary in order to produce in quantity and cheaply, 
in order to make it possible to have a large population, in order to give 
opportunity for specialization, in order to give time for certain classes 
to have leisure enough to think and develop science, in short, in order 
to have what we modems call civilization and especially to have a pro- 
gressive civilization. This is elementary and understood by most of us, 
but we do not always appreciate it. 

Our needs and wants are indefinitely great, both in number and quan- 
tity. It is absolutely impossible to satisfy all of them. The best that 
we can do is to satisfy the most urgent and eliminate the lesser ones. 
If we satisfy the latter, it will mean the sacrificing of the greater for 
the lesser. This, of course, means that one must have a philosophy of 
life in order to decide what is most worth while and what can be 
eliminated. This brings us to the answer of the question which many 
people have asked, — How may I determine what is foolish and what is 
wise expenditure? It depends upon one's judgment of what is worth 
while and of the extent of one's means available for the satisfaction of 
wants. The decision, of course, must consider not only the individual's 
needs and desires but also his duties to his family and to society at 
large. But we must even go a step further, a society cannot allow an 
individual to do what seems most worth while to him if the doing of 
those things injures society. Not only the murderer and thief must be 
taught better ways or be eliminated, but also those whose acts are non- 
social in other ways must be encouraged to adjust their work, and to so 
satisfy their wants that what they do shall be in harmony with the 
interests of society rather than contrary to them. 

Foolish spending is one of the things which is exceedingly non-social; 
wise spending is best for the interests of the individual and also for the 
interests of society. It is the function of the savings campaign to con- 
vance the great mass of American people of this fact, and to use moral 
suasion, and to bring to bear the mighty force of pubhc opinion so that 
they may align themselves in such a way that their interests and actions 



1919J milk: its relation to race char,^cteristics 131 

will harmonize with the interests of the people as a whole, so that they 
will spend wisely rather than foohshly. In other words, the campaign 
is to help make every citizen of the United States a good citizen. 



MILK: ITS RELATION TO RACE CHARACTERISTICS 

It is of special moment at this time to emphasize the importance of 
the dairy industry- in its relation to the public health. Mankind may be 
roughly classified into two groups. Both of these have derived the 
greater part of their food supply from seeds, tubers, roots, and meat, but 
have differed in respect to the character of the remainder of their diets. 
One group, represented by the Chinese, Japanese, and the peoples of the 
Tropics generally, have employed the leaves of plants as almost their 
sole protective food. They likewise eat eggs and these serve to correct 
their diet. The other group includes the peoples of Europe and North 
America and a few others. These have likewise made use of the leaves 
of plants, but in lesser degree, and have, in addition, derived a very con- 
siderable part of their food supply from milk and its products. 

Those peoples who have employed the leaf of the plant as their sole 
protective food are characterized by small stature, relatively short span 
of life, high infant mortality, and by contented adherence to the employ- 
ment of the simple mechanical inventions of their forefathers. The 
peoples who have made liberal use of milk as a food, have, in contrast, 
attained greater size, greater longe\ity, and have been much more suc- 
cessful in the rearing of their young. They have been more aggressi^^e 
than the non-milk using peoples, and have achieved much greater ad- 
vancement in literature, science, and art. They have developed in a 
higher degree educational and poUtical systems which offer the greatest 
opportunity for the indiAadual to develop his powers. Such develop- 
ment has a physiological basis, and there seems every reason to believe 
that it is fundamentally related to nutrition. — The Newer Knowledge of 
Nutrition by E. V. McCollum. 



132 THE jouRJv'AL OF HOME ECONOMICS [March 

INSPECTION VS. EATING 

Montague Glass keeps up with the times; therefore home econoinics 
must have "arrived," for Abe and Morris discuss it in connection with 
dramatic criticism in a recent article in a verj- amusing way. 

"Well, I'll tell you," Morris said, "while I admit that the theayter cricket 
is smart fellers and knows all about the rules and regulations for writing plays 
y'understand, so that they can tell at a glance during the first performance if 
the audience is laughing in violation of what is considered good play construc- 
tion or crying because the show is sad in a spot where a play shouldn't ought 
to be sad if the man who wrote it had known his business, y'understand, still 
at the same time theayter crickets is to me in the same class with those here 
diet experts. Take a dinner which one of them diet experts approves of, Abe, 
and the food is O.K., the kitchen is clean, the cooking is just right as to time 
and temperature of the oven, there's the proper proportions of water and 
solids, and, in fact, it's a first-class, a-number-one meal from the standpoint 
of every person which has got anything to do with it, excepting the feller which 
eats it, and the only objection he's got to it is that it tastes rotten." 

"And that would be quite enough to put a restaurant out of business if it 
served only good meals according to the opinion of diet experts, Mawruss, 
because diet experts don't buy meals, Mawruss, they only inspect them," Abe 
commented. — Washington Star (Copyright, 1918, by McClure Syndicate). 



AN ODE TO HEALTH 

Health of itself makes life a perpetual Joy. Nothing daunts, nothing 
overawes, nothing discourages and nothing overpowers the man and 
woman possessed of health. Health means not only \agor and energy 
of body, but also clarity and strength of mind; purity and beauty of soul. 
The healthy person dominates life instead of allowing life to dominate 
him. To him work is a joy. He regards obstacles as but opportunities 
for testing his strength. He hardly knows what weariness is. He never 
experiences exhaustion. Merely to grasp his hand is a pleasure. Health 
supphes the courage, the aggressiveness in Hfe. Without health one is 
bankrupt regardless of what his financial capital may be. He becomes 
a cipher in the world of real men and women. If you have health, then, 
friends, cherish it, guard it and treasure it as you treasure life, for out 
of it are the issues of life. — Bulletin Indiana State Board of Health. 



EDITORIAL 

A LETTER FROM THE SAVINGS DIVISION OF THE TREASURY DEPARTMENT TO 
THE AMERICAN HOME ECONOMICS ASSOCIATION 

The American Home Economics Association, through its Council, has of- 
fered to cooperate in the Thrift Campaign undertaken by the War Savings 
Division. The Association has asked in what ways home economics workers 
in the class room, the home, or on the platform can put over thrift ideals and 
methods, and reach the results for which the Government is working. 

It is evident that there are opportunities to make this year the beginning 
of the golden age of wise Uving; that such opportunities are especially open to 
a body of people who for many years have been teaching principles that are 
directly appUed to this campaign of thrift. 

This letter is written to suggest a few of the specific ways in wliich those 
trained in home economics may help in putting before every home and every 
individual the kinds of thrift that are worth while in daily living; that will give 
them an idea of proportionate costs, and show them the relation of individual 
saving to the prosperity of the community and the stabihty of the nation. 

Those of you who are teaching will, of course, work first of all with your own 
students. See that the thrift program is presented to them. If you are an 
elementary teacher, this may be done by following some of the suggestions sent 
out by the Savings Division in National School Service; using hfteen minutes 
a week in giving a thrift lesson; introducing some thrift problems in the arith- 
metic class; using thrift stories as supplementary reading; asking the children 
to plan posters, or to think out thrift slogans; or even giving a simple thrift 
play. If you are training teachers, offer a short course this summer that will 
show normal students how to teach even the elementary school child a spend- 
ing plan, and that wUl use the child to reach the home with ideals of thrift 
and practical methods of wise spending and saving. 

Urge the department of general economics in your institution to pay especial 
attention this year to the discussion of wise spending and the theory of savings. 
Ask to have at least one or two pubUc lectures given during the summer term, 
perhaps by a local banker or business man, so that every student may have 
an opportunity to hear what safe investment means. 

Start a thrift bureau for students. Keep it open an hour a day. Train one 
of your own students to answer the simpler questions. Take care of the more 
difilicult ones yourself. Students will bring problems from home, giving you an 
opportunity to help in the solution of very real and immediate problems. 

133 



134 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [March 

If the student thrift bureau is successful and conditions warrant it, find 
some one who will help you start a thrift information bureau for the commun- 
ity in which you live. Suggestions in regard to the method of conducting such 
a bureau may be obtained from the Savings Division. 

Teach simple ways of keeping accounts. Do not lay on the housekeeper too 
great a burden. An account for a month will give some basis for a budget plan. 

Make your own spending plan; you can hardly ask of others what you do 
not find time to do yourself. You have probably found simple and quick 
ways of getting at what you want to know. Show others how to do it. 

Suggest that the woman's club to which you belong study for part of next 
year's work "Ten Lessons in Thrift" that will soon be issued by the Savings 
Division. Leaflets on Household Thrift are in preparation by the Department 
of Agriculture and the Treasury Department and wiU soon be available, and 
will help in such study clubs and elsewhere. 

Offer your services as speakers to your local War Savings Directors; suggest 
other good speakers who have the necessary technical information. The best 
way to prevent the choice of ill informed speakers is to suggest good ones. 
Ask some of your graduates who have married and had practical experience 
in home making to enhst for occasional speaking. Offer a few lessons, if it be 
not more than two or three, for speakers who need more instruction as to facts. 

Try writing. Ask the local newspaper to allow you to conduct a "question 
and answer thrift column" for a month, and give the best answers in your 
power to the multitudes of questions that are now being asked in regard to 
budget making, household accounts, how to buy, how to manage the home. 

Gather up suggestive material from your students or from housekeepers, 
showing the actual way in which different individuals and famUies spend, and 
send this to the Savings Division. Send also every possible suggestion of 
plans of thrift work, of ways of reaching different kinds of people, of methods 
that you have found successful. 

The National Savings Campaign is organized under the Savings Division, 
War Loan Organization, Treasury Department, Washington, and the active 
campaign is directed through twelve District Savings Directors located in the 
twelve Federal Reserve Bank Districts. Under each District Savings Direc- 
tor, an organization of state, county, and local savings directors is adminis- 
tered. The local savings director provides for the establishment of sales 
agencies for War Savmgs Stamps, and the organization of War Savings Societies 
in schools and other educational institutions, and in shops, stores, offices, and 
other places of employment. The members of the American Home Economics 
Association can contribute largely to the success of the national campaign by 
cooperating with their local savings directors in promoting War Savings Soci- 
eties, and in helping to bring to every individual and family the ideals of thrift 
and of better hving. 



BOOKS AND LITERATURE 



Any book or periodical mentioned in this department may be obtained through the 
JoiJRN.u, OF Home EcoNOincs if the Journal price is listed. 



Nutrition and Clinical Dietetics. By Her- 
bert S. C.«TER, Paul E. Hotnt:, Howard 
H. Masox. Philadelphia and New York: 
Lea and Febiger, 1917, pp. 622. S5.50. 
This volume is a welcome addition to the 
number of general text-books on diet, de- 
signed for the use of the medical practitioner. 
the dietitian, and the teacher of dietetics 
The authors have made a praiseworthy and 
measurably successful attempt to combine 
without confusion the working directions 
which may be deduced from laborator>' ex- 
periment and from clinical experience. 

The book is divided into four parts. Part 
I, Foods and Xormal Nutrition, is subdi- 
vided into discussions of digestion, energy 
requirement, protein requirement, inorganic 
salts and water, normal feeding, and food 
economics. Most of the recent e.xact ex- 
perimental material is mentioned, although 
not always in the organized and judicial 
fashion looked for in a text-book. Only six 
footnote references are given, and not all of 
these are selected with a view to furnishing 
the reader with the key to the most profitable 
further study. For example, under vita- 
mines, only one reference is given, that to 
Williams' work on attempted vitamine 
synthesis. 

This part is, nevertheless, remarkably 
inclusive in the number and adequacy of the 
topics it covers. 

Part II, Foods, is divided into chapters 
classified as dealing with protein-rich, carbo- 
hydrate-rich, fat-rich foods, and foods valu- 
able for their salts, water, and bulk. Each 
discussion of the common foods found under 
these headings includes usually information 
as to composition, cooking, and digestibility. 



This familiar description and statistical ma- 
terial on foods is apparently considered in- 
dispensable to texts on dietetics, but has 
become so accessible from other sources 
that one wishes the space might have been 
used for the enlargement of the less easily 
digested and more pertinent material in 
Part I. 

Part III, Feeding in Infancy and Child- 
hood, is a somewhat less complete and less 
satisfactory treatment of a most important 
topic than the scope of such a text-book 
would prescribe. 

The clinical character of the book is nat- 
urally more marked in this and in the follow- 
ing part than in those preceding, but is dis- 
appointingly apparent here. One cannot 
help feeling that even the most clinical 
minded and hurried practitioner might wel- 
come here some mention of infantile scurvy, 
normal growth standards, stool analysis, 
to mention only the most obvious of the 
omissions. 

Part IV, Feeding in Disease, forms the 
main portion of the book. The chapters 
are divided in the usual manner, according 
to disease grouping, and, also in the usual 
manner, everj- type of ailment is listed faith- 
fully by name whether or not a specific die- 
tetic recommendation can reasonably be 
made for it. 

The statement made by the authors in the 
preface that "a book founded entirely on 
facts proved in the laboratory is as yet im- 
possible .... and that in dealing 
with all things human the personal equation 
is of immense importance .... 
that it is on this account that accurate clin- 
ical obser\-ation will always be a prime factor 

135 



136 



THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS 



[March 



in the successful feeding of patients" is 
borne out by the amount of clinical detail 
introduced into Part IV. 

A constant attempt is made, however, to 
introduce the results of experimental evi- 
dence wherever such evidence is available, 
and references to these original sources are 
at least occasionally given. As is promised 
in the preface, the latest evidence is always 
presented wherever it is not overshadowed 
by more con\'incing older work. It is ap- 
parent, however, that revision and addition 
must even now be made in more than one 
chapter. 

It may be questioned whether the time 
may not have come when these encyclopedic 
treatises upon so complicated and con- 
stantly changing a subject as dietetics are 
no longer necessary. Certainly their con- 
stant revision involves considerable expense 
and labor. The alternative practice so well 
exemplified in the series of Biochemical 
Monographs, of coordinated separate pub- 
lications on the important subdivisions of 
the subject might well be given a trial. 

Meanwhile "Xutrition and Clinical Die- 
tetics" will be found among the favorite 
references of the practical prescribers of 
diet. 

Agnes Fay Morgan, 
The University oj California. 

The Business of the Household. By C. W. 

Taber. Lippincott's Home Manuals. 

Edited by B. R. Andrews. Philadelphia: 

J. B. Lippincott Company, 191S, pp. 438. 

S2.00. By mail of the Journal, S2.15. 

Too often books and articles on business 
practices in the household treat only of the 
financial aspects of budget planning, house- 
hold accounting, sa\Tngs, and credit, and 
pay but little attention to the need for de- 
veloping better judgment in the use of 
money so that better living standards wiU 
be maintained. 

Too often books and articles on better 
household practices pay but little attention 
to the cost of such practices in relation to 
income and the amount of other necessary 
expenditures, thus losing much of their 



practical value in impro\'ing home standards 
as a whole rather than as a part. 

Neither criticism can be made of "The 
Business of the Household," and it should 
prove of great value for this reason as well 
as for the large amount of information which 
it presents in clear, interesting form. 

The first part of the book deals with the 
"Fundamental Principles of Household 
Finance," and includes excellent material on 
budgets and accounts, although not many 
people would probably be willing to use 
quite as complicated forms as those sug- 
gested. 

"Factors in the Family Budget" are next 
considered, and there are unusually good 
discussions of the financial and homemaking 
aspects of the various tj'pes of expenditure 
included within the family budget plan. 

The last part of the book contains much 
reliable information, not easily available 
hitherto for teaching or personal use, with 
reference to the legal status of the family, 
real estate titles and transactions, inherit- 
ances and wiUs, and laws which affect the 
family. 

At the end of each chapter are sugges- 
tions for questions, problems, and demon- 
strations, or themes for debates, which 
should prove ser\'iceable in arousing interest 
in the class room and in the home in the 
practical applications of the general princi- 
ples being studied. There is also a good 
bibhography in connection with each topic 
discussed. 

The book should prove ser\-iceable to the 
many men and women who are endeavoring 
to manage their homes on sound bufiiness 
and homemaking principles, and also to the 
home economics teacher and extension 
worker. It should also prove serviceable 
to the teacher of arithmetic, economics, or 
ci\'ics, who is desirous of including in the 
course discussions of problems touching on 
matters of household finance or improve- 
ment of li\-ing standards. 

Criticism might be made that the author 
assumes that all families ha\'e a larger and 
more regular income than is common in 
many industrial and rural centers, and a 



1919] BOOKS AND LITERATURE 137 

considerable amount of leisure from other A book of "mock" dishes. An interest- 
work for attention to the management of ing compilation of recipes from mock chicken 
the home. Comparatively little space is and mock horse's neck to mock bar-le-duc 
devoted to any discussion of the various currants and maraschino cherries; most at- 
community efforts to improve home living t^actively gotten up, with one recipe to a 
conditions and the need for cooperation in j -^i. x. • j i- l^i- i 

„ „ , , . page, and \\ith each recipe a dehghtful quo- 
such efforts as well as for work to unprove ^ . _, ,, . , 
•i_ ■ J- -J 1 1. T •> t ^u tation. the collection of quotations is 
the indmdual home. In spite of these ... 
,. .... . u jii, c ■ • ii, u I • itself almost worth the price of the book. 

limitations m breadth of \nsion, the book is >- h --^ "» 

a real contribution to the small number of 

books dealing with home problems from a ■P'<""^ «'«^ Victory. By Carlotta C. Greer. 

financial or legal viewpoint, and to the larger New York: Allyn and Bacon, 1918, pp. 

number of books dealing with the various 62. S.40. By mail of the Journal, S.45. 

problems of home management from the "Food and Victory" was prepared as a 

practical, housekeeping viewpoint. War Supplement to the author's "Textbook 

EmiA A. Wdjslow. ^f Cooking," but much of it is valuable as a 

Camouflage Cookery. By Helen Watkeys Pemianent contribution to economy in the 

Moore. New York: Duffield and Com- "se of food. The power of adaptation, and 

pany, 1918, pp. 106. $1.00. By mail of skill in the preparation of unfamihar foods 

the Journal, Sl.OS. are qualities that have permanent value. 



PAMPHLETS RECEIVED 

Issued by the United States Department of Labor, Children's Bureau: 

Child Care Series: The Care of the Mother, Feeding the Child, Milk, Breast Feeding, Bottle 
Feeding, The Preparation of Artificial Food, Good Books and Pamphlets on Child Care. 

Children Before tlie Courts in Connecticut. Wm. B.Bailey. Dependent, Defective, and Delin- 
quent Classes Series No. 6, Bureau Publication No. 43. 

Sixth Annual Report of the Chief, Children's Bureau, to the Secretary of Labor. 

Studies of Use of Milk by Families Having Little Children. III. New Orleans. 

Issued by the United States Public Health Servace: 
Disabling Sickness Among the Population of Seven Cotton-Mill Villages of South Carolina in 

Relation to Family Income. Reprint No. 492 from the Public Health Reports. 
Public Health Administration in New Mexico. Reprint No. 490 from the PubUc Health 

Reports. 
Sanitation of Rural Workmen's Areas. Reprint No. 487 from the Public Health Reports. 
Stale Laws and Regulations Pertaining to Public Health, 1916. Reprint No. 406 from the 

Public Health Reports. 

Issued by the Department of the Interior, Bureau of Education: 
Effect of War Conditions on Clothing and Textile Courses. Home Economics Circular No. 7. 
Recent State Legislation for Physical Education. Bulletin, 1918, No. 40. 
Rural-Teaclier Preparation in State Normal Schools. Bulletin, 1918, No. 27. 
Teaching American Ideals through Literature. Bulletin, 1918, No. 32. 
Vocational Guidance in Secondary Education. Bulletin, 1918, No. 19. 



138 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [March 

Issued by the Federal Board for Vocational Education: 
Agricultural Education. Bulletin No. 26, Agricultural Series No. 4. 
Second Annual Report, 19 IS. 

Buildings and Equipment for Schools and Classes in Trade and Industrial Subjects. Bulletin 
No. 20, Trade and Industrial Series No. 4. 

Issued by the Massachusetts State Department of Health: 
Care of the Child in Hot Weather. 
Food Rules for School Children. 

Food for tite Child. Reprinted from the Commonhealth, Vol. 5, No. 8. 
Food for Children from Tifo to Six Years Old. Reprinted from the Public Health Bulletin, 

Vol. 5, No. 2. 
Food: What it is and What it Does. Reprinted from the Public Health Bulletin. \'ol. 4, No. 

12. 
Food and the Calorie. Reprinted from the Public Health Bulletin, Vol. 5, No. 1. 
Energy Producing Foods. Reprinted from the Public Health Bulletin, Vol. 5, No. 11. 
Fats and Their Value in tlie Diet. Reprinted from the Public Health Bulletin, Vol. 5, No. 5. 
Tissue-Forming Foods. Reprinted from the Public Health Bulletin, Vol. 5, Xo. 3. 
Certain Dietary Essentials. Reprinted from the Public Health Bulletin, Vol. 5. Nc. 4. 
Infltie^za Bulletin. 
The Venereal Diseases. 

Issued by the New York State Department of Health: 
Epidemic Influenza Number. Mo. Bulletin, December, 1918. 
Oral Hygiene Number. Mo. Bulletin, November, 1918. 

Issued by the Ohio State University: 
Kitchen Tests of Relative Cost of Natural Gas, Soft Coal, Coal Oil, Gasoline, and Electricity for 

Cooking. Department of Home Economics. 
Utilization of Food. Recipes. Extension Bulletin Vol. XIV, No. 2. 

Issued by the New Mexico College of Agriculture and ^lechanic Arts: 
Extension Circulars: A Whole Dinner in One Dish, No. 43; Meat Saving, No. 39; Pinto Bean 
No. 38; The Potato, No. 42; Soups, No. 49; Sugar Sa%ing, No. 41. 

Issued by the publishers listed : 

The Common Cold. Leaflet No. 2. .\merican Association for Study and Prevention of In- 
fant Mortality, Baltimore, Md. 

Fancy Meats in Newest Dishes. Canada Food Board, Ottawa, Ont. 

Food Conditions in 1919. Bui. No. 22. Canada Food Board, Ottawa, Ont. 

The Gary Public Schools. Household .\rts. Eva W. White. General Educational Board, 60 
Broadway, New York. 

Medical Mail-Order Frauds, .\merican Medical .Association, 535 North Dearborn St., Chi- 
cago, 111. 

Testing of Textile Materials. Department of Commerce, Bureau of Standards, Circular No. 
41 (3d Edition). 

Training of Women for National Community Service. University of Chicago Press, Chicago, 
lU. 



1919] BIBLIOGRAPHY OF HOME ECONOMICS 139 

BIBLIOGRAPHY OF HOME ECONOMICS 

PERIODIC.-VL LITERATURE 

Food and Nutrition 

A Bacterial ExamiDation of Green Vegetables. Fred William Kirk, Amer. Jour. Pub. 
Health, 8 (1918), No. 7. 

In this investigation attention was principally directed toward estimating the presence 
of coli-tj-phoid group, streptococci, and anaerobic organisms on green vegetables. The 
number of bacteria was also determined. An attempt was made to find whether or not the 
general sanitarj' conditions of the store at which the purchase was made had any influence 
on the bacterial contents. The study was made with vegetables from Chicago stores. 

The conclusions are that there is a great variation in the bacterial counts and that no 
direct sanitary relations in the store sampled were apparent but it must be noted that the 
free lunch counters gave a very high colony count. 

The obser\-ations do not seem to indicate that the general sanitary conditions of the 
store influenced the bacterial count. 

Report of Committee on Production and Conser\-ation of Food Supplies. Amer. Jour. 
Pub. Health, 8 (1918), No. 10, p. 780. 

Cost to Consumer of a Pound Loaf of Bread. Aincr. Jour. Pub. Health, 8 (1918), No. 
10, p. 785. 

.\ Comparative Study of Milk Plates by Four New York Laboratories. Anier. Jour. 
Pub. Health, 8 (1918), No. 12, p. 913. Editorial Note, p. 927. 

"Reconstructed milk" is one of the food products to which war has given great stimulus. 
It is not in any way intended to furnish the supply in any countrj' where cows are conven- 
iently near. 

Munition cities that were built in a day and without reference to the food supply of the 
country about them were the ones to be benefited. At Nitro, W. Va., there was established 
a city with a daily demand for milk of about 3,000 quarts. There was prospective danger to 
the children, to say nothing of the inconvenience to their elders. The U. S. Public Health 
Ser\'ice saw the opportunity for a very practical trying out, and its report of the results is 
exceedingly satisfactory. Reconstructed milk is dried skim milk which for use is enriched 
by the addition of butter fats and in the process of reconstruction the milk is pasteurized. 

Carbohydrate Content of Extracts of Muscle and Liver of Dead Animals. S. Twano, 
Jap. Med. Literature, 3, 36 (I918) Chemical Abstracts, 12, p. 2006. 

Amounts of HjO and Salts in the Blood of Newborn Infants. K. Sakai, Jap. Med. Lit- 
erature, 2, No. 4, 1 (1917). Chemical Abstracts, 12, p. 2005. 

Free Lactic .Acid in Sour Milk. Jour. Biol. Chcm., 35 (1918), pp. 147-178. Chemical 
Abstract, 12, p. 1972. 

The Casein of Human Milk. Jour. Biol. Chcm., 35 (1918), pp. 115-117. Chemical Ab- 
stract, 12, p. 1971. 

Study of the Non-protein Nitrogen of Wheat Flour. M. J. Blish, Jour. Biol. Chcm. 33 
(1918), pp. 351-359. Chemical Abstract, 12, p. 1979. 

Globulin of Buckwheat. Carl O. Johns and Lewis H. Chernoff, Jour. Biol. Chcm., 34 
(1918), pp. 439-445. Chemical Abstract, 12, p. 1994. 

Textiles and Clothing 

Year's Review of Cotton Manufacturing. Charies Mills, Textile World Jour., Jan., 1919. 
Artificial Silk and Cotton Mixed Fabrics. Laneshaw, Textile World Jour., Dec, 1918. 



140 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [March 

Dress Cottons. Dry Goods Economist, Dec, 1918. 

Bills £md Budgets. Forest Crissey, Sat. Evening Post, Dec. 14, 1918. 

Lettering Essentials for the Commercial Design Students. Indus. Arts, Feb., 1919. 

TextUe War Work of the Bureau of Standards. E. Dean Walen, Textile World Jour., 
(Annual), Jan. 11, 1919. 

Textile Thrift in Salvage Ser\'ice. Textile World Jour., Jan. 11, 1919. 

Central .\merica: Textiles and other designs taken from those of the Mayans of Central 
America. Ada Beckwith, School Arts, Nov. 1918. 

Costume Designing. Endora SeUner, School Arts, Jan., 1919. 

Furniture and Furnishings 

The Jacobean Period in Furniture and Decoration. Art World, Dec, 1918. 

A History of Italian Furniture from the XIV to Early XIX Century. Int. Studio, Dec, 
1918. 

Historical Style and The Designer — Greek Influence. Edward J. Sake, Indus. Arts, 
Dec, 1918. 

Historical Style and the Designer — Roman Influence. Edward J. Sake, Indus. Arts, 
Feb., 1918. 

A New Decorative Incident — Modem Polychrome Furniture. Art World and Arts 6* 
Decoration, Nov., 1918. 

The Furniture of the Allies. Alice Van Leer Carrick, House Beautiful, Jan., 1919. 

Floors, Walls, Ceilings of a Modem Kitchen. Eva Nagel Wolf, House and Garden, ]a.a., 
1919. 

The Bedroom of Individuality. Nancy Ashton, House and Garden, Jan., 1919. 

Cottage Chairs for Country Homes. House and Garden, Jan., 1919. 

Color Tones in Painted Furniture. Mary Northend, House and Garden, Jan., 1919. 

How to Handle Color in Decoration. House and Garden, Jan., 1919. 

Old French Wall Paper Decorations. House and Garden, Dec, 1918. 

Wall Paper — Its History and Development. Decorative Furnisher, Dec, 1918. 

MlSCELlANEOUS 

Projects for a School Bazaar. PermodeUo Modelling. Bonnie E. Snow and Hugo B. 
Froelich. Indus. Arts, Feb., 1919. 

A New Kind of Toyland. Indus. Arts, Feb., 1919. 

With Paint — Bmsh in Hand. Grace Dewaele Rockwell, House Beautiful, Dec, 1918. 

War Time Activities in the Schools. Bonnie E. Snow and Hugo B. Froelich, Indus. 
Arts, Dec, 1918. 

Keeping Warm in a Colonial Winter. Geo. Wilson Jennings, House and Garden, Dec, 
1918. 

About Toys. Pedro J. Lemos, Indus. Arts, Dec, 1918. 

Contagious Diseases and the Child Welfare Movement. Edwin H. Place, Mo. Bui. 
Mass. Dept. of Health., Nov., 1918. 

Fashions as .Effecting Public Health. Amer. Jour. Pub. Health, Nov., 1918. 

.•\ Critical Study of the Bacterial Count in Water and Sewage. Amer. Jour. Pub. Health, 
Nov., 1918. 



NEWS FROM THE FIELD 



Fellowships in Social-Economic Re- 
searcli. — Three paid fello%vships in social- 
economic research are offered each year by 
the Women's Educational and Industrial 
Union to women who wish thorough prepara- 
tion for such work. The fellowships carr>' a 
stipend of S500. Clerical assistance, equip- 
ment, and traveling expenses necessary for 
the investigation are furnished by the 
Department of Research. 

A degree from a college of good standing, 
training in economics or sociologj-, and sat- 
isfactorj- references in regard to health, 
character, and special fitness for social- 
economic research are required of all candi- 
dates for the fellow-ships. For the past five 
years the successful applicants have been 
women with some graduate training or 
experience. The research fellows are ex- 
pected to devote their entire time for ten 
months to the training given by the Depart- 
ment of Research. 

Training is given in the making and criti- 
cism of schedules, in field work in the con- 
struction and interpretation of statistical 
tables, and in the literary presentation of 
the results of the investigation. All fellows 
are required to take the course in statistics 
given by the Director of the Department 
of Research. 

In addition to formal training in statistics 
and methods of research, two cooperative in- 
vestigations will be made by the staff of the 
Research Department. The first of these is 
limited in scope and is based on data already 
collected. The second, which will be the 
chief original investigation of the year, will 
require field work for the filling of schedules, 
and will afford each fellow experience in all 
stages of the work required for modem co- 
operative investigations of social or economic 
problems. 



Students who have received satisfactory 
undergraduate training in sociology and 
economics may offer the year's work in the 
Research Department in fulfillment of re- 
quirements for the degree of Master of 
Science in Research at Simmons College. 
The thesis or research work is accepted also 
in certain seminar courses at Radcliffe Col- 
lege, Tufts College, and Massachusetts 
Institute of Technology. By special ar- 
rangement with the Committee on Graduate 
Instruction of Wellesley College, the work 
may be counted as a part of the require- 
ments for a master's degree. Several 
western universities have accepted the com- 
pleted studies as theses for advanced degrees, 
and have given graduate credit for the train- 
ing in research. Professors from affiliated 
colleges serve on the committee which 
awards the fellowships. 

Application must be filed before May 1. 

For further information and application 
blanks, address Department of Research, 
Women's Educational and Industrial Union, 
264 Boylston Street, Boston, Massachusetts. 

Conference of State Leaders, Home 
Demonstration Agents in Northern and 
Western States. These meetings were held 
in the offices of the Women's Section, North 
and West, States Relations Service, United 
States Department of Agriculture, January 
2 and 9, inclusive. Miss Florence E. Ward 
was chairman of the conference. 

The program opened with an address from 
Dr. True. There were short reports from 
the states; mock community meetings for 
the purpose of presenting the strong points 
in organization; round tables for discussion 
of special interests; committee meetings to 
consider the program of work, outstanding 
projects, relation of research to home dem- 
141 



142 



THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS 



[March 



onstration work, specialists, grapliics, pub- 
licity, farm and home bureau organization, 
cooperating government agencies, cooper- 
ating projects within the colleges and the 
Department, office organization reports and 
records, insignia, community projects, and 
general resolutions. There were three social 
gatherings: a joint dinner of all extension 
workers, North and South participating; a 
tea given by the Washington Staff at Miss 
Ward's apartment; a reception by Mrs. 
David Houston, wife of Secretary Houston. 
\'isits were made to the White House and 
Senate, and the conference closed with indi- 
vidual discussions with each member of the 
scientific staff. 

A brief survey of reports from the field 
indicate that home demonstration work is 
developing into a strong organization. The 
rural work is progressing toward a perma- 
nent place in the Farm Bureau scheme. 
Urban work is strengthening its organization 
which is based on the same general principles 
as the Farm Bureau. The principle on 
which these newer plans of work are based 
is that of self-expression in the community. 
Each farm or home bureau is assisted by the 
agent to the point of articulating its needs, 
of putting on a program of work to meet 
these needs, and depending upon the leader- 
ship of the Home Demonstration Agent to 
carry out this program. 

Notes. A department of Household Eco- 
nomics was organized at the University of 
Alberta, Edmonton, Canada, in 1918. The 
work is in charge of Miss Mabel Patrick, an 
Honours Graduate in Household Economics 
of the University of Toronto. 

Miss Frances Stem, the author of "Food 
for the Worker," who is in Paris with the 
Red Cross, writes: "Here in the land for 



which we have conserved, there is not a 
great deal of popular education along the 
food line, and a group of men are trying to 
introduce home economics into the schools 
and to present it in some popular form to the 
people. Dr. Marcel Labbe, a prominent 
physician here, is verj- much interested, and 
is an.xious to get material telling how the 
United States has done things. 

"Miss Harris of the Framingham Normal 
School is working with me, and we are hop- 
ing to do a little educational work here." 

Miss Mary Gearing, on leave of absence 
from the University of Texas, is with the 
Young Women's Christian Association as 
Associate Executive, Health Division, Bu- 
reau of Social Education. Her special task 
is to coordinate home economics with the 
general health program of the National 
Y. W. C. A. 

At the Battle Creek School of Home 
Economics and Dietetics, a new sorority of 
dietitians — the ."Mpha Theta Pi — has been 
founded. Its members are already scat- 
tered through different parts of the United 
States and several are in France. Miss 
Lenna Cooper, director of the school, is an 
honorary member. It is hoped that this 
organization may cooperate with the .Ameri- 
can Dietetic Association in advancing di- 
etetic work and furthering investigation in 
this line. 

Miss Alice RavenhiU has resigned from 
her position at the Utah .Agricultural Col- 
lege, Logan, Utah, after a prolonged attack 
of influenza and pneumonia, and has re- 
turned to her home in Victoria to recuperate. 
She plans after her complete recovery to give 
her time cliiefly to lecturing, in which she 
has won a unique plrxe among home eco- 
nomics workers. 



The twelfth annual meeting of the American Home Economics Asso- 
ciation will be held at Blue Ridge, N. C, June 23-28. 



V'OL. XI. Xo. 4 April, 1919 

THE 

Journal of Home Economics 

For those interested in Ilomemaking, Institution Management, 
and Educational Work in Home Economics 

Mrs. Alice P. Xortos, Editor Ketuelah E. B.uj>uin', Business Editor 

Editorial Board 
Mrs. Mary H. Abel C. F. L.\ngworthy Ethelwyn Miller Ruth Wheeler Amy Daniels 

Ex-OJicio Members — Edna K. White, President American Home Economics Association 
Elsie Leonard, Chairman Institution Economics Section 
Katherixe Blcxt, Chairman Science Section 
AcxEs E. Harris, Chairman Extension Education Section 
Grace Dexxy, Chainnan Textile Section 

Collaborators — The Officers, Members of the Council, and Advisors 



CONTEXTS 

Changes in Food Valxte of Veget.\bi.es Due to Cookixg Minna C. Dentan 143 

The Caxnixg of Asparagus Alice E. Skinner and Grace Glasgow 154 

Methods to be Used in- the Study or Gas Coxsumptiox of tiie Oju3in.\sy Household 

Range 158 

A Study of the Present Cost of Food Jean Krueger 163 

COOPERATIV'E ReSE.\RCH IN EXPERIMENTAL COOKERY 166 

Agriculture of the Hidatsa Indians — An Indi.\n Interpretation 168 

For the Homemaker 

The House Speaks Arthur D. Dean 169 

The Home ANT) Thrift " " 171 

Budget Making 5. Agnes Donham 172 

Some Pre-War Prices, 1860, AN-D Their Increase 177 

MrMER.AL Matter DJ the Diet Dora L. Earl 178 

Editorial 179 

Comment ant) Discussion 180 

Books and Literature 181 

blbliocraphv of home economics 183 

News prom the Ffeld 185 



The Jof rxal Of Home Economics Is published monthly by the American Home Economics Association. 

$2.00 A YEAR. FOREIGN $2.33. CANADIAN $2.20. SINGLE COPIES 25 CENTS 

HOW TO REMIT. Remittances should be sent by Check, Express Order or Postal Money Order, payable to the 
American Home Economics Association. Currency, unless mailed in a registered letter, is at the sender's risk. 

NOTICE. When payment is made by check no receipt will be sent unless requested. 

CHANGE IN ADDRESS. Notice of change in address should be sent Two Weeks before the date of issue on which 
the change is to take effect. The subscriber's Old Address should be clearly indicated in addition to the New Address. 

AMERICAN HOME ECONOMICS ASSOCIATION 1211 Cathedr.\l St., Baltimore, Md. 

The Journal of Home Economics is on sale at John Wanamaker's, Philadelphia; The Old Comer Book Store, Boston; 

A. C. McClurg's, Chicago; Baltimore News Company, Baltimore; Woodward and Lothrop, Washington 



JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS— ADVERTISEMENTS 

Ryzon and The New Standards 

In the days of Louis XV when royal honors 
were bestowed upon fav orite chefs, cookery 
was Indeed a fine art. Now it is that and 
more — it has become a science ! 

This change is due in largest measure to 
the work of the modern domestic science 
experts and progressive housewives. They 
are the ones whose influence is raising the 
standard of living. 

Their hearty endorsement has helped us to 
introduce Ryzon, the Perfect Baking Powder, 
into many thousand American homes, and the 
Ryzon Baking Book which embodies their 
high standards of food preparation is spread- 
ing their doctrine of accurate, scientific and 
uniformly successful baking! 




Ryzon is iOc a pouyid. The new Ryzon Baking 
Book {original price $1.00), containing 230 prac- 
tical recipes, many of conservation value and 
others easily adapted to present day needs, will be 
mailed, postpaid, upon receipt of 30c in stamps or 
coin, except in Canada. A pound tin of Ryzon 
and a copy of the Ryzon Baking Book will be sent 
free, postpaid, to any domestic science teacher who 
icritcs us on school stationery, giving official 
posilion. 



GENERALCHEMICALTO. 

FOOD DEPARTMENT 
NEW YORK 



I n writing advertisers, please mention [ournal of Home Economics 



THE 

Journal of Home Economics 

Vol. XI APRIL, 1919 No. 4 

CHANGES IN FOOD VALVE OF VEGET.\BLES DUE TO 
COOKING* 

Effect of Varying Household Manipulations 

minna c. denton 

i. introduction 

Recent progress in nutrition is emphasising heavily the inadequacie9 
of a diet with a preponderance of cereal products and vegetable fats — our 
cheapest sources of protein and calories — at the same time that food 
scarcity puts some of their most effective supplements, such as eggs, 
milk, meat, and animal fats, very nearly out of the reach of all except 
the well-to-do classes. It seems that many of the fresh vegetables and 
fruits have some value, in several respects, as supplements to inadequate 
diets of certain types. But at most seasons of the year these, too, are 
considered to be out of reach of the limited purse, with a few exceptions, 
prominent among which are vegetables which may be canned in time of 
plenty, and the "winter vegetables." If these local products are to be 
more largely used in the diet, both as supplements to the cereals and meats 
and as substitutes for them, an extended knowledge of their value with 
regard to various dietary factors is desirable. This study is concerned 
with the factors which are usually the first ones to be determined — their 
fuel values and ash content — these being determined from the vegetables 
as served to us at the table, after household manipulation, possibly also 
after commercial manipulation, as in the case of canned foods. 

With the exception of potatoes, the winter vegetables are mostiy 
strong-juiced or highly flavored, and their flavors do not commend 
themselves to all persons, particularly often not to those of highly dis- 

* This paper was presented as part fulfillment of the requirements for the degree of Ph.D. 
in Household .Xdministration, University of Chicago, August, 1918. 

143 



144 THE JOXIRNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [April 

criminating or of irritable nervous organizations, unless the flavor can 
be somewhat modified. Partly for this reason and partly for purposes 
of convenience, the methods very generally employed in cooking and in 
canning them have involved the use of a greater or less excess of water, 
which has considerable extractive power at the temperatures employed. 
Food conservationists are urging that these vegetable foods should be 
baked, or steamed, or boiled in their jackets, or that tlie vegetable stock 
should be utilized; yet practical objections, such as tliose in the following 
Ust, continue to be urged upon some occasions. 

1. It is apparent that neither cabbage heads nor large root stalks can 
be boiled whole, — their size forbidding this possibility. 

2. Chlorophyl-bearing tissue usually turns more or less brown when 
steamed, though boiling water (even distilled, but especially when" hard" 
or when salted or made alkaline with soda) satisfactorily "sets" the 
green color of cabbage, cauliflower, Brussels sprouts, peas, string beans, 
and the yellow color of blanched celery. If the cooking be not too long 
continued, this green color is satisfactorily retained in boiled vegetables. 

3. The steamed product is dr^'er and less water-logged than the boiled, 
and of different texture; it has of course no flavor of added salt, and yet 
(steamed at 90° to 100°C.) it may retain its characteristic odor and taste 
more strongly than does the boiled vegetable. The consequence is 
that the uninitiated frequently pronounce steamed cabbage both rank 
and insipid, also "not done." 

4. The washing of spinach or greens which have been transported for 
long distances "packed in mud" (cracked ice) is a tedious process and 
often more or less of a failure, even when a good deal of pains has been 
taken. Under these circumstances it is a great help to boil in excess of 
water and skim out the greens when done, because thus the remaining 
sand and grit fall to the bottom of the kettle, instead of sticking to the 
leaves, as is the case with the steamed product. 

5. The strong taste of condensed spinach juice, such as is produced by 
cooking the leaves in a very small amount of water, proves objectionable 
to many persons, including children not old enough to express them- 
selves verbally upon the subject. 

6. Baking is desirable, yet often impracticable for various reasons, 
among which are the expense of fuel, and the overheating of the kitchen 
fro",i the oven. 

7. Home and commercial canning methods aUke usually call for a pre- 
liminary "blanching" process which is advisable for various reasons; yet 



1919] CHANGES IN FOOD VALUE OF VEGETABLES 145 

this period of boiling in excess of water, which apparently is nev'cr utilized 
to advantage, seems inconsistent with our customar}- efforts to "save 
the juice." (This objection does not apply to tlie steam blanch or to 
blanching in skins.) 

8. The vegetable canned in excess of water at high temperature, as 
are some of the commercially prepared products, may well lose a large 
part of its nutrient values of various sorts to the "juice" drained off 
when the can is opened ; yet this juice, especially when excessive in 
amoimt, is often not palatable, and is feared by some because of its pos- 
sible content in tin, lead, or iron salts derived from a metal container. 

9. The cook often finds it a convenience to pare vegetables and cut 
them ready for sening, earlj^ in her preparation of the meal. She does 
not wish to add peeling of potatoes or carrots to the hst of things which 
must be done in the busy period just before the meal is served when the 
biscuits are to be baked and the coffee to be put over, the gravy to be 
made, and the salad to be dressed. She therefore objects to cooking 
vegetables in their skins. 

10. The use of a large rather than a small amoimt of water with vege- 
tables shortens the period of their cooking to such an extent that the 
average home cook often prefers to use an excess of water rather than 
barely water to cover. 

Thus it would appear that a single generalization does not suffice to 
dispose of all cases, but that the cooking of each vegetable is a question 
to be decided on its own merits, if the conserv-ation of nutritive value is 
to be combined with ma.ximum palatability and practical convenience. 

Other questions which occur to the dietitian who compares the cooked 
vegetable with the raw, are such as these: After careful consideration of 
the details of every-day practice to be observed all about us, how are 
we to estimate the dietetic value of vegetables cooked in diverse ways? 
Shall we in computing or planning dietaries, assign to the cooked vege- 
table 90 per cent or 75 per cent or 50 per cent of the caloric value of the 
edible portion of raw vegetables? What is the proportionate loss sus- 
tained by vegetables which have been "blanched" in excess of unsalted 
boiling water, as practiced in some canning processes; by vegetables 
covered with water and cooked in quart jars in bath of boiling water for 
two and three hours, as recommended for home canning? Does the vege- 
table with high content of soluble carbohydrate lose proportionately 
more than that with lower content? Does the root stalk cut into large 
pieces suffer considerable loss? Do uncut vegetables which present a 



146 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [April 

large amount of exposed cuticle (leguminous seeds, leaf greens, fleshy 
buds and flowerets as loose-leaved cabbage and cauliflower) suffer con- 
siderable loss from the extractive effect of boihng water? Are the losses 
from steaming at 90° to 100°C. (efficient home steamer) negUgible; are 
those from direct exposure to steam at 100° to 120°C. (institutional 
cooker) also negligible? Does the addition of salt to the cooking 
water, in small amounts (1.5 per cent solution at beginning of process) 
increase or diminish the cooking loss? Does the loss diminish if section- 
ing be done longitudinally (parallel with the fibro-vascular bundles) 
rather than crosswise (across them, exposing their cut ends at both 
surfaces of each shce to the solvent action of water)? 

II. EE\TEW OF LITERATURE ON LOSSES IN COOKING VEGETABLES 

Most of the work done on losses of cooked vegetables is concerned 
chiefly with mineral constituents. In many cases very few details as to 
mediod of cooking are given, which makes it difficult to compare results 
of different investigators. 

Wagner and Schaefer^ reported finding that potatoes steamed in their 
skins lost 1.17 per cent of their crude ash, 0.69 per cent of their potas- 
sium, 0.03 per cent of tlieir phosphorus. Steamed after paring, these 
losses were 7.28 per cent, 6.93 per cent, and 4.57 per cent, respectively. 
Boiled in their skins, they lost 3.64 per cent of their crude ash, 3.32 
per cent of their potassium, 1.12 per cent of their phosphorus; boiled 
after peeling, 28.86 per cent, 38.33 per cent, and 22.87 per cent, re- 
spectively. 1 kgm. of spinach lost 8.578 grams of dry matter (1.684 
gram N, 3.375 grams of ash); 1 kgm. of carrot tops, chopped, lost 15.252 
grams dry matter (3.312 grams N, 6.331 grams ash). Average losses in 
boiling were 9 to 18 per cent of the total soluble matter found in the 
unboiled vegetable food. 

Snyder, Frisby, and Bryant- found that potatoes when pared, soaked 
3 to 5 hours, and put over to cook in cold distilled water, lost 46 to 58 
per cent of their total nitrogen (about one-half of which is in the form 
of protein), 25 per cent of their protein, and 38 per cent of their mineral 
salts. When pared, put into either hot or cold distilled water, and 
cooked at once, the losses were half these amounts or less; when cooked 
in skins, tlie nitrogen loss was 1 per cent, the protein loss 0.5 per cent, the 

' Sachs, Landio. Ztschr., vol. 33, p. 369, 188S. (Abstr. in Jahresb. f. Agrikultur. Client., 
N. F. 8, vol. 28, p. 443, 1885.) 

= BuU. 43, Office of E.xp. Sta., U. S. Dept. Agr., 1897. 



1919] CHANGES IN FOOD VALUE OF XTGETABLES 147 

mineral loss 3.3 per cent. Frisby and Bryant, in another experiment, 
found that pared potatoes, put into cold distilled water and cooked, 
lost 9.2 per cent of their nitrogen, 2.7 per cent of their carbohydrate, 
and 17.2 per cent of their ash; when cooked in their skins, they lost 1.6 
per cent of their ash. Varying the experiments by using "alkaline 
water" or "lime water," instead of distilled, produced no important 
variations in losses — except that it seemed that the lime water (and the 
cold alkahne water) took out a httle more protein than did the dis- 
tilled water controls. Carrots, scraped and cut into pieces, lost from 
20 to 40 per cent of their nitrogen, and from 29 to 47 per cent of their 
ash. according to size of pieces. Half a solid cabbage, put into cold water 
and cooked, lost from 33 to 46 per cent of its nitrogen, 33 to 42 per cent 
of its fat and carbohydrate, 48 to 54 per cent of its ash; put into hot water 
and cooked, the losses were usually (but not always) a little less. On 
the whole, the alkaline and lime waters had a slightly greater extractive 
action than did the distilled water. 

Kraus' found that cabbage turnip when cooked had lost 20 per cent 
of its carbohydrate; cauHflower, 331 per cent; spinach, 71 per cent; 
winter cabbage, 53 per cent. 

Zschokke^ worked on losses in "blanching" (boiling in hot water) of 
carrots (cut in pieces), peas, string beans cooked whole and also cut into 
pieces. In each case, one-half of the vegetable was steamed and the 
other half boiled for 25 to 30 minutes. The losses in total dry matter 
were about five times as much by boiling as by steaming; losses in salts, 
usually only from three to four times as great in boiling as in steaming. 
He gives no data for raw foods, but, if we were to judge from American 
analyses for these foods, we should conclude that his losses in protein 
and mineral salts were markedly lower than those reported by most 
workers, while his losses in "nitrogen-free extract" run only a httle lower 
than some losses in caloric value reported in the present paper. (He 
foimd a loss of 3.43 grams of nitrogen-free extract per 100 grams raw ma- 
terial in boiled carrots, 2.43 grams in boiled peas, 0.624 grams in beans 
boiled whole, 0.768 gram in beans boiled in pieces.) 

HaenseP reports a loss of about 0.08 gram of iron oxide from 100 
grams of fresh vegetable, in boiling spinach; and 70 per cent of its 
iron, in boiling lettuce in water — if I have correctly interpreted his report. 

'Ztschrf.f. Dim. u. physik. Thcr., vol. 1, p. 69, 1898. Cited in Hutchison's Food and 
Dietetics. 

* Land-ui.- Jahrb. d. Schweiz., vol. 19, p. 615, 1905. 
' Biochem. Zischr., vol. 16, p. 9. 



148 THE JOtJRNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [April 

Williams^ gives a number of analyses of cooked foods, calculated to 
moist condition; but in her earlier articles, no corresponding analyses of 
raw materials were made, so that it is impossible to judge of the propor- 
tionate losses. A later article^ reports a loss of 10.59 per cent of its pro- 
tein and 5.36 per cent of its ash, by celeriac, pared, sliced thin, and 
cooked 30 minutes in boiling water. Chicory, borecole, and endive 
(procedure not stated) lost from 30 to 43 per cent of their protein and 
from 12 to 19 per cent of their ash. Dried legumes (butter beans, green 
flageolets, soy beans), soaked 12 hours and then cooked (whether in the 
same water, and how much, is not stated), lost into their cooking water 
26 to 28 per cent of their protein, and 5.5 to 17.05 per cent of their ash. 
Chestnuts (evidently fresh) lost 54 per cent of their protein and 7 per 
cent of their ash. A still later paper^ evidently reports further work, 
especially with regard to protein losses. Cooked in boiling water by the 
usual method, spinach, with 10 per cent of total soHds, loses one-fourth 
of these; celeriac loses half of its total soHds (7 per cent of its ash, 54 
per cent of its protein); turnips, almost half; lettuce, one-fourth; aspara- 
gus, one-sixteenth; curly greens (borecole) 40 per cent (16 per cent of 
its ash, 54 per cent of its protein); chicory, 20 per cent (12 per cent of 
its ash, 43 per cent of its protein) ; butter beans, 10 per cent (19 per cent 
of its ash, 30 per cent of its protein) ; endive, 25 per cent (19 per cent of 
its ash, 30 per cent of its protein). 

Maurel and Carcassagne^ found that blanching for 30 minutes (or 15 
minutes? the two reports conflict) in distilled water, removed 40 per 
cent of the total salts from cauliflower, 44 per cent from Brussels sprouts, 
55 per cent from cabbage sprouts, 26 per cent from celery root (celeri 
pied), 37 per cent from celery leaves, 35 per cent from asparagus, 34 
per cent from green beans, 19 per cent from white beans, 33 per cent 
from lentils, 61 per cent from potatoes. Amoimts of potassium lost were 
in all these cases, except two, relatively high, ranging from 25 to 73 per 
cent of total potassiimi. In general, 40 to 50 per cent of total salts (50 
to 75 per cent of total potassium) was lost in this blanching process. In 
the case of legumes, 30 minutes' blanching removed a much larger 
amoimt of potassium (73 per cent in white beans, 38 per cent in lentils) 
than did the remainder of the three hours' cooking (16 and 22 per cent, 

^ Jcrnr. Amer. Chcm. Soc, vol. 26, p. 244, 1904. 
''Jour. Indusl. Eng. Chcm., vol. 5, p. 653, 1913. 
8C/KW. News, vol. 113, p. 143, 1916. 
oCompt. rend. Soc. Biol., vol. 67, p. 91, 211, 1909. 



1919] CH-IXGES IN FOOD VALUE OF \rEGETABLES 149 

respectively). These authors also quote Laborde'" as finding a loss of 
75 per cent total salts (60 per cent of potassium) in the blanching of 
cabbage; and Labiile" as reporting losses of 29, 70, and 54 per cent of 
total potassium for 5 minutes' blanching of green beans, sorrel, and 
spinach, respectively; also, loss of 36 per cent of potassium in 10 minutes' 
blanching of potatoes. 

Poppe'- cooked (or soaked) fresh green peas in two and one-half times 
their own weight of water or Kquid, for 1 hour at 100°C., for two hours 
at 50°C., for 24 hours at 20°C. They used seven hquids — distUled water, 
saturated NaCl solution (56 per cent), half-saturated, and quarter-sat- 
urated (10 per cent NaCl), saturated sugar solution (about 105 per 
cent), half-saturated, and quarter-saturated (18.4 per cent). They 
found that the peas boiled in distilled water lost 10 per cent of their ni- 
trogen (it seems the raw peas contained 19 per cent of protein), 13.6 per 
cent of their carbohydrate (6.92 per cent carbohydrate in raw peas), 3.9 
per cent of their phosphorus (0.66 per cent in raw peas), none of their 
chlorine. The salt solutions removed less of the nitrogen than did dis- 
tilled water, and very httle phosphorus or carbohydrate ; the stronger salt 
solutions removed less nitrogen, in general, than did the weaker, but 
there was Kttle difference in their extractive eifect on carbohydrate. 
All losses were, as a rule, greater at the higher temperatures, because 
these kill the protoplasm and convert it from a semi-permeable mem- 
brane to a permeable one, whereas at 20°C. the living protoplasm, 
though it imbibes water, is able to regulate its loss of solutes and the 
entrance of solutes from its environment, to a considerable degree. The 
peas took up about 1 per cent of their own weight in salt from the 
boiling quarter-saturated salt solution, and about 1.5 per cent of their 
own weight of sugar from the boiling quarter-saturated sugar solution. 
It is not stated whether the solutions were kept at their original strength 
by renewal of water as they boiled, or whether they became more con- 
centrated as cooking proceeded. Unfortunately these most careful and 
scientifically made obser\'ations can apply only somewhat remotely to 
the problem of cooking losses, since solutions as strong as these could 
not be used in preparing vegetables. 

Eerry" found that boiled spinach lost 50 per cent of its salts; boiled 

^"Soc. d. Hist. nat. Toul, March 28, 1900, p. 67. 
" Traile de I' Alimentation, vol. 3, p. 522, 44, 35. 
^Bul. Soc. chim. Belg., vol. 25, p. 136, 1911. 
" Jour. Home Econ., vol. 4, p. 405, 1912. 



150 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOIHCS [April 

cabbage 40 per cent; boiled carrots (cut in pieces) 11.5 per cent of their 
salts (23 per cent of phosphorus) and 26 per cent of soluble carbohydrate. 

Berg" suggests that in some cases the losses in alkali as a result of 
boiling vegetables are so great that the vegetable may actually lose its 
basic ash, and come to possess an acid ash. 

Bodinus'5 announces that the loss of soHds in boiled potatoes is at 
least 2 per cent if pared. If sodium chloride be added to the water, the 
loss is 1.25 per cent of the starch and 10 per cent of the potato salts; 
if no salt is added, tlie potato loses 33 per cent of its salts. 

Morgan^'' reports a smaller loss of salts in peas canned by the com- 
mercial process than in those canned by the tliree-day sterihzation home 
process. (Specifications and detailed results not given.) She found a 
loss of 18 per cent of the ash (25 per cent of phosphorus) due to blanching. 

Blvmt and Otis" boiled 5 to 10 grams of spinach, string beans, navy 
beans, and peas, respectively, in 25 to 75 cc. distilled water in a covered 
beaker for 20 to 40 minutes (navy beans two hours) ; potatoes were also 
boiled (seven were scraped, cooked together, and mixed). These vege- 
tables, both raw and cooked, and the cooking water were then analyzed 
for iron. The losses found were: spinach, between 43 and 50 per cent of 
its total iron; string beans, between 39 and 43 per cent; navy beans, 
between 32 and 39 per cent; peas, 36 per cent; potatoes, between 15 and 
22 per cent. 

Visawanath" found that neutral salts (of calcimn, magnesium, and 
sodium) retard, and alkaline salts (e.g., Na2C03) accelerate the cooking 
of legumes (dhall) because they retard or accelerate respectively, the 
solution of protein and starch, but more especially of protein. 

Courtney, Fales, and Bartlett" cooked seven varieties of vegetables 
by "thorough boihng" for 30 to 150 minutes, and analyzed cooked vege- 
tables and cooking water for calcimn, magnesium, phosphorus, chlorine, 
potassium, sodium, sulphur, iron, and nitrogen. The percentage losses 
on most salts were greater than losses in calcium and nitrogen. New 
Zealand spinach was an especially heavy loser (72 per cent of total ash), 
yet it lost very little of its calcium, and the same thing was true of ordi- 
nary spinach. (Both these vegetables are especially good sources of 

" Nahrung. ti. Gcnussmilld, Aschbestandleile, Dresden, 1913. 
" Chern. Zcntr., Bd. 2, p. 37, 191S. 
'= Jour. Home Econ., vol. 7, p. 72, 191S. 
" Jour. Home Econ., vol. 9, p. 213, 1917. 

" Mem. Dept. Agri., India, Chem. Ser. 4, No. 5, p. 149, 1916. Abstr. from Chem.Ahstr., 
1917. 

iMwer. Jour. Dis. Children, vol. 14, p. 34, 1917. 



1919] CHANGES IN FOOD VALUE OF VEGETABLES 151 

calcium, if one were to judge from chemical anal}'ses alone, — a ques- 
tionable proceeding.) Carrots, onions, and asparagus lost but a trace of 
iron; spinach, 28 per cent of its iron; New Zealand spinach 51 per cent. 
Reducing the time of cooking made httle difference in tlie losses (spinach 
cooked 10 minutes instead of 90, string beans cooked 60 minutes instead 
of 150 minutes lost almost as much as before). Steaming, however, 
reduced the losses materially (spinach only half as much loss as when 
boiled, asparagus one-third as much, carrots one-fourth as much). New 
Zealand spinach and onions still lose 20 to 30 per cent of their more 
soluble constituents, when steamed (for 30 minutes). 

W'eibull-" concludes that while potatoes do not lose appreciabl_\' if 
boiled in their skins, they lose 0.5 per cent of their solids if pared before 
boiling. If sweetened by chilling, they lose 0.5 per cent when boiled in 
skins, 1.5 per cent when pared before boiling. Cooked in hard water, 
they retain their solanin; cooked in distiDed water, they lose one-tliird 
of it. 

Wardall,-' working to develop a method of making vegetables free of 
digestible carbohydrate for the use of the diabetic, placed the finely cut 
vegetables in cold water, brought this to the boil, boiled for several 
minutes, then poured the water off and repeated the process. She found 
that, while beets give a test for reducing sugar after two such extrac- 
tions and are then exhausted of such carbohydrate, cabbage still gives 
the test after 8 extractions, carrots after 6, eggplant after 7, parsnips 
after 6, pineapple after 9. Extracted in water at 60°C., 1 hour was re- 
quired to extract all reducing carbohydrate from beets; 1| hours for 
carrot; 2 hours for eggplant; 1 hour for parsnips; 3| hours for pine- 
apple. Cabbage seemed to give up little of its reducing substance to a 
60°C. extraction. 

t Masters-- tried the effect of boUing dried beans in a large excess of 
water (five times their own weight) treated in various ways. She found 
that soaking the beans overnight reduced the time of cooking only from 
2 hours and 5 minutes to 2 hours. (The experience of the author of 
this paper is very nearly in accord with hers, though there is a good 
deal of variability among the different kinds and different grades of 
maturity. If the beans be put directly into boiling instead of into 

2° Kungl. iMtidtbruks-akad. Handling ar Tidskrift, \-ol. 56, p. 348. 1917. Abstr. in Client. 
Abslr., 1917. 

^' Jour. Amcr. Med. Assn., December 1, 1917. 

2s PAochem. Jour., Oct., 1918. 

t This tlusis was prepared in March 1918. The following notes were added in March, 
1919, in ord-r to bring the bibliography up to date. 



152 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [April 

cold water to cook, the time is still further reduced in some instances.) 
The soaked beans lost a larger proportion of their solids than did the 
unsoaked (12.2 per cent instead of 10.5 per cent in tap water; 12.6 
per cent instead of 11.1 per cent, in distilled water). Salting the 
water reduced the losses considerably: in 0.25 per cent NaCl, they 
lost 9.2 per cent of their sohds; in 0.5 per cent NaCl, 8.7 per cent; 
in 1 per cent NaCl, 8.3 per cent. Even the salts of tap water had a 
shght effect in this respect (11.1 per cent loss when boiled without 
soaking, instead of 10.6 per cent loss in tap water), when soaking and 
cooking were not too much prolonged. Adding soda increased the losses; 
boiled (without soaking) in 0.1 per cent solution of sodium bicarbonate 
in tap water, they lost 11.3 per cent of their sohds; in 0.25 per cent 
solution, 14.3 per cent; in 0.5 per cent solution, 22.3 per cent; in 1 per 
cent solution, 27.3 per cent. Disintegration was very rapid at the 
higher concentrations, and the flavor was such that the beans were 
uneatable; the most satisfactory results were tliose when 0.1 per cent 
sodium bicarbonate was used. 

Cooking by steaming was also tried; 100 grams beans were covered 
with 250 grams boiling water, the basm was placed quickly in a steamer, 
and closed with a rightly fitting hd. When thus steamed without pre- 
vious soaking, they lost 8.9 per cent of their sohds; soaked overnight and 
thus cooked, they lost 10.4 per cent; cooked (without soaking) in 0.25 per 
cent NaCl, they lost 8.4 per cent; cooked (without soaking) in 0.1 per 
cent sodium bicarbonate and 0.25 per cent salt, they lost 7.8 per cent; 
cooked in 0.1 per cent soda and 0.25 per cent salt after previous soaking 
they lost 8.1 per cent of their original weight. 

Denton and Kohman" fed young white rats raw carrots, boiled 
carrots with the concentrated cooking water, boiled carrots without 
the cooking water, and canned carrots (processed two hours in 
boiling water bath). During the short period (five weeks) when 
carrots formed the sole diet (except for certain salts which were 
added), it was clear that those animals fed on raw carrots had the 
advantage over the others. Difficulties which the animals had in 
accommodating themselves to the unsuitable diet appeared to be 
greater, in proportion to the length of time the carrots had been cooked. 
However all animals raUied and began to improve in time, except those 
on the canned carrots, who were started later tiian the rest and had not 
sufficient time to show what they could do before a change in diet was 

■^Joiir. Biol. Chem., vol. 36, p. 259, November, 191S. 



1919] CH.4NGES IN FOOD VALtJE OF VEGETABLES 153 

made. WTien protein, fat, and starch were added to the diet in such 
proportions that the carrots furnished only one-half to two-thirds of 
the soUds and of the calories of the chet, cooking of the carrots seemed 
to have no deleterious effects. True, however, it was observed that 
those animals wliich received carrots with the concentrated Juice cooked 
down to some degree of caramelization did, after a time, fall considerably 
behind the rest in food consumption and also somewhat in rate of 
growth. The reason for this difference, which was perfectly apparent 
to all those who handled the animals and their food, cannot be stated, 
so far as I know, at the present moment. 

Those animals fed boiled carrots without the juice, on the otlier hand, 
developed imusually large appetites, though their growth curves were not 
quite as good as those of animals similarly fed on raw carrots. Presum- 
ably this shows the effect of the loss of a considerable portion of the 
caloric value of the ^•egetable into the cooking water. 

Daniels and McClurg^* fed young white rats on a diet in which cab- 
bage (raw, or boiled in water or in soda and water, or autoclaved) was the 
only source of water-soluble vitamine. The cooking water was in- 
cluded in the diet in all cases. The soda was added in the proportion of 
1| teaspoonful per cup of raw beans {33 cc. of 5 per cent solution of so- 
dium bicarbonate to 50 grams of soy beans); and 1| teaspoonful to 1 
pound of cabbage (63 cc. of 5 per cent solution, to 250 grams cabbage) ; 
this proportion of soda is about what is very commonly used in cooking 
these vegetables. Their experiments continued only through one month 
in the case of cabbage feeding; but it is believed that the effects of a 
decided deficiency of water-soluble vitamine should be apparent within 
that time. Yet animals on all of these cooked diets tlirove equally well 
with those fed raw cabbage, and all animals kept pace with or exceeded 
the normal rates of growth. Evidently, then, cooking of cabbage even 
at high temperatures or even in alkahne medium did not sufiiciently 
impair the water-soluble vitamine so that growth was perceptibly 
interfered with, imder the conditions above described. 

It must, however, be noted with respect to the last two investigations 
reported, that it is possible the results might have been slightly dif- 
ferent if the amoimt of vegetable fed had been reduced to the minimum, 
or that which would furnish barely sufficient vitamine to meet the needs 
of growth. In case cooking does have a shghtly prejudicial effect on 
vitamines, it would be more likely to appear when tlie margin of safety 
is a narrow one than when it is a very wide one. 

'*Jour. Biol. Chan., vol. 37, January, 1919. 



154 THE JOTXRNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [April 

As Miss Daniels remarks, this excessively wide margin of safety in 
respect to vitamines may perhaps accoimt for the fact that her results 
are different from those of McCollum and co-workers (Jour. Biol. 
Chem., Vol. 33, p. 55) who found that the water soluble vitamine 
extracted from the wheat embryo was apparently destroyed by 60 
minutes boiling in alkaline medium. 

Stanley-^ gives tables showing losses due to blanching varying from 
19 per cent in wax beans to 53 per cent in cabbage. Another table 
shows 52 per cent of mineral matter lost in boiled spinach, 9 per cent 
in steamed; 41 per per cent in boiled cabbage, 11.5 per cent in 
steamed. Details of manipulation are not given. 

{To he concluded.) 



THE CANNING OF ASPARAGUS' 

ALICE E. SKINNER AND GRACE GLASGOW 

The nimiber of inquiries received by the college in regard to the 
difficulties experienced in home carming, and especially 'n the canning 
of asparagus, indicated a need for some method of canning th"s vege- 
table that would give a more palatable product than is obtained by the 
usual household methods. When asparagus is heated for the period of 
time usually thought necessary for successful canning, whether the cold 
pack or the intermittent method is used, it becomes so soft that it is 
difficult to handle without destroying its shape. Three hours, the 
length of time often recommended for processing, not only softens the 
vegetable, but also fails to give results uniform enoGgh from the stand- 
point of preservation to warrant its recommendation. Periods of process- 
ing less than three hours are sometimes successful but the results are so 
variable that considerable loss from spoilage is not infrequent. 

A niunber of tests were conducted. In part of them the asparagus 
was blanched for from three to five minutes in boihng water; in others 

" Cooking of Vegetables. Cir. 1, Agr. Ext. Service, Univ. of Mo., 1915.J 
' Experiments carried on in the Departments of Domestic Science and Bacteriology, 
Kansas State .-\gricultural College. 



1919] THE CANNING OF ASPAR.\GUS 155 

it was packed in jars without blanching. No advantages in favor of the 
blanching could be detected save that the shrinkage permitted a fuller 
pack. In fact in these experiments spoilage was more frequent in the 
blanched than in the unblanched product. 

The tests were conducted witli a view to working out some methods 
that would give uniform results in preser\^ation without rendering the 
vegetable undesirably soft. As yet we have made no tests with the 
pressure cooker, the aim being to duplicate as nearly as possible the 
average home conditions. The water bath used was an ordinary cov- 
ered kettle, deep enough to hold pint jars when placed on a rack. The 
asparagus stalks were cut in suitable lengths for the jars and fitted in to 
utilize the space to the best advantage. Only pint jars were used, as 
quart jars would necessitate making two layers, which would injure 
the lower layer of tips. After the pack had been made the jars were 
filled with boiUng water containing salt in the proportion of one table- 
spoon to a quart of water. Some tests were made in which the quantity 
of salt used was increased to an amount sufficient to have some preser- 
vative action. In other tests dilute \inegar was used. 

The first tests were made by simply processing in the water bath for 
three hours after tlie water around the jars had begun to boil. Of the 
three hour tests made, 50 per cent showed spoilage with the production 
of gas in some cases. Fifty per cent were apparently sound after nine 
months, although cultures from a number of jars showed the presence of 
organisms. The effect of this amount of processing is to soften the 
stalks to an undesirable extent. The flavor, however, does not seem to 
be impaired. An attempt to avoid the softening by using a shorter 
period of processing resulted in a much greater percentage of loss. 
Periods below two hours resulted in a total loss. 

In the recommendations of the United States Department of Agricul- 
ture through the bulletins of the States Relations Service, the use of a 
heavy brine is ad\'ised in the canning of certain vegetables. This brine 
is made by using approximately two tablespoons of salt to a quart of 
water. The period of processing recommended for asparagus is two 
hours. Tests made according to these directions showed a lower per 
cent of spoilage than was foimd where salt was used only for seasoning. 
The product, however, did not invariably keep. 

In another series of tests very dilute vinegar solutions were used, 
since the spore-forming aerobes, which are the types most often asso- 
ciated with spoilage of asparagus, are sensitive to small amounts of acid. 



156 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [April 

WTiere \dnegar was used the thne of processing was reduced to a period 
of from one and one-half to two hours with a decided reduction in the 
softness of the vegetable. The decrease in the percentage of spoilage, 
as compared with that in jars processed longer but not treated with acid, 
was very decided. In some of these tests two tablespoons of vinegar 
containing 4.4 per cent of acetic acid were added to each quart of the 
water used for filling the jars. In other tests only one tablespoon to a 
quart of water was used. The two tablespoons of vinegar was sufficient 
to produce a flavor characteristic and distinct though not to be recog- 
nized as acid. The amount of acid was not sufficient to cause any 
curdhng of milk sauces with which the asparagus was subsequently 
combined. W^en the asparagus was served vnth an acid such as French 
dressing or Hollandaise sauce, the change in flavor due to the vinegar 
could not be detected. 

The results of the tests made with vinegar indicate tliat two hours of 
processing is sufficient to keep the vegetable if a solution containing one 
tablespoon of vinegar to a quart of water is used for ffiling the jars. If 
two tablespoons of vinegar are used to a quart of water the time may be 
reduced to one and one half hours. The flavor where the smaller 
amount of acid is used is much less distinct and will therefore be more 
acceptable to some people, even though the increased time of processing 
required does make the vegetable slightly softer. 

Bitting and Bitting in their bulletin, "The Bacteriological Examina- 
tion of Canned Foods," from the Research Laboratory o' the National 
Canners' Association, in speaking of the variation in spoilage in differ- 
ent sections of the country, and in the same section during different 
seasons, say: "This much is known, that peas are sterlized 'n New 
Jersey in a shorter period than in Wisconsin, and in tlie latter state in 
less time than in New York." In this connection it might be noted 
that we have found it much more difficult to sterilize culture media in 
the bacteriological laboratory here than in similar laboratories in Wis- 
consin, Illinois, and Pennsylvania. The inquiries received in regard to 
the canning of asparagus, as well as our own work, lead us to beheve 
that the preservation of this vegetable, Hke the sterihzation of culture 
media, is more difficult to accompUsh here than in many sections of the 
country. 

In the bacteriological examination of the canned asparagus all the 
jars were opened with special precautions against outside contamination. 
The work was done in a small culture room in which tlie floor and work 



1919i THE CANOTNG OF ASPAR,\GUS 157 

table were kept moistened to prevent any particles of dust from floating 
in the air. The jars were first washed thoroughly with water to remove 
any dust. The excess of water was removed with a dry clotli. The 
jars were then inverted in a dish containing 5 per cent carbolic acid 
solution and allowed to stand for ten minutes. After draining the jars 
were transferred to a dish containing 95 per cent alcohol and allowed to 
remain for ten minutes. The solution in each case came well up on the 
shoulder of the jar. The jars were lifted from the alcohol and drained 
for a few seconds, and the alcohol was burned off. The seal was broken 
by inserting the point of a sterile knife beneath the rubber. The lids 
were carefully removed and material for the bacteriological study taken 
with a sterile pipette. Both aerobic and anaerobic cultures were made. 
Two, as yet unknown, anaerobes have been isolated. The spore-form- 
ing aerobes, such as those of the B. sitbtilis group, B. vulgatus. and5. 
megatherium, were the types most often found associated with the 
spoilage of the asparagus. 

Good flavor and odor in canned vegetables are not necessarily proof 
that the product is sterile. A number of jars, which after nine months 
were excellent in flavor and odor, showed the presence of organisms on 
culturing. These, as well as numerous other tests conducted in the 
bacteriological laboratory, indicate that the perfect seal had prevented 
the development of the organisms present. Those jars treated with 
vinegar showed the presence of organisms less frequently than did those 
not so treated. The combination of high temperature and dilute acid 
seems to be ver>' effective in destro>ang bacterial life. 

Further work on the canning of asparagus is under way in the hope 
of determining more definitely what methods and periods of processing 
are most successful. At present the following conclusions seem justified 
by the results of the work done up to date: 

1. A period of processing necessary to sterilize tlie asparagus softens 
the vegetable to an imdesirable extent. 

2. Small quantities of acid added in the form of vinegar are very 
effective in reducing the time of processing necessary for the preserva- 
tion of the vegetable. 

3. The flavor imparted by the vinegar may be detected but is not 
objectionable. 

4. Blanching is justifiable for the purpose of shrinkage before packing 
but not as an aid in preservation. 

5. Jars that are apparently keeping may contain living organisms. 



158 THE TOriCsAL OF HOME ECOXOMICS [April 

METHODS TO BE USED IX THE STUDY OE GAS COX- 
SEMPTIOX OE THE ORDLXARY HOUSEHOLD RAXGE 

Experimenlal Kiichen, Office of Home Economics, U. S. Department of AgricuJlurc^ 

Rougli estimates as to the amount of gas used in various cooking per- 
fonnances. such as baking a given weight of bread imtil "done" (95°C. 
to lOO^C. in center of loaf), or boiling a given -weight of potatoes a 
given length of rime, can be made by reading an ordinar}- meter so con- 
nected that no other gas passes through it than that for the stove 
being investigated, at the time that the test is made. These estimates 
answer many practical purposes ver\- well. 

For more careful comparative tests, in experimental work, it is neces- 
sary to have a special dial on the drj- meter, so that the quantities can 
be read to small fractions of a cubic foot. For precise measurement of 
gas volvimes the wet meter is most commonly used, as it has numerous 
advantages over the dry meter. A detailed description of the con- 
struction of meters, and discussion of the degree of accuracy attainable 
in their use, may be found in Technologic Paper Xo. 36 of the Bureau 
of Standards. 

In some instances readings invohing small magnitudes, such as 
decimal fractions of a cubic foot, are of significance, and it is therefore 
necessar}- to correct the observed voliunes for temperature of the gas 
and for barometric pressure. This is the case in computing the rate of 
cubic feet per hour of gas consinned by each of the top and oven burners 
of the stove. If we find, for instance, that top Burner Xo. 1. when 
turned on fuU, has today used 1.25 cubic feet of gas in five minutes 
(i.e., 15 cubic feet per hour), whereas last month upon one occasion it 
used only 1.11 cubic feet in five minutes (13.32 cubic feet per hour), 
we m.ust. of course, seek some explanation of this variation of 12.5 per 
cent between the two readings. Xow if the first reading were taken in 
mid-afternoon of a 100°-in-the-5hade day on the first week of September, 
when the gas in the kitchen meter showed a temperature of 99°F. and 
the barometer registered 29.6 inches, in order to bring the obser\-ed 
volume to a standard condition of 60''F. and 30 inches pressure, it 
would be necessary- to multiply the observed volimie by a correction 

' It is a pleasure to acknowledge our great indebtedness to Mr. W. il. Berr>- of the U. S. 
Bureau of Standards for his expert ad\-ice and generous cooperation in the matter of plan- 
ning and arranging the equipment used in these studies we are now making, and also for 
many other \-aluable suggestions. 



1919] STXJDY OF GAS CONSUMPTION 159 

factor of 0.875. But the second reading was perhaps made on a chilly 
October morning, wth no furnace heat started as yet; temperature 60°F., 
barometer again 29.6 inches; correction factor for gas voliuiie, 0.986. 
Multiphing 1.25 cubic feet by 0.875, and 1.11 cubic feet by 0.986, we 
obtained exactly the same thing in each case, viz., 1.09 cubic feet. 
Since many of our calculations as to necessary' outlay for gas in various 
cooking and baking procedures must be based upon a knowledge of the 
amounts of gas used by various burners when burning at fuU capacity, 
or where turned down at an angle of 30° or 45°, it is necessary to deter- 
mine these rates quite accurately; and for that purpose, the correction 
factors for gas volume, at various temperatures and barometer readings, 
should be made. WTien these corrections have been made, duphcate 
readings should check within 4 per cent or 5 per cent at least, even when 
separated by a considerable time interval. The barometric reading can 
always be obtained from the Weather Bureau, if in no other way. 

The temperature of the gas is usually near that of the room, but this 
should not be taken for granted. Wet meters usually come pro\aded 
with thermometers to show both the temperature of the watei and that 
of the gas; the two readings should be within a few degrees of each 
other. A table, showing the factors to be used in correcting various 
combinations of barometer and thermometer readings to standard con- 
ditions, is given on pages 6 and 7 of "Gas Calorimeter Tables."^ 

The meter should be preceded by a regulator' so that the adiustment 
of the apphance will not be changed by variation in the gas pressure. 
There should be a manometer or pressure gauge on the meter to show 
the pressure at which the gas is being metered, and this pressure must 
be added to the barometer pressure to get the total pressure of the gas. 

A meter prover could be used in place of a wet meter, where not more 
than 5 cubic feet of gas are used in any one operation; but these are 
very expensive and have no particular advantage over a wet meter. 

The adjustment of the stove should be such that it is capable of 
doing work with optimum results so far as reasonable economy in gas 
consumption and also in time are concerned. For example, we foimd 
that in the particular range with which we proposed to work, there was 

' Bureau of Standards, Circular 65. Supt. of Documents, Gov. Printing Office, Price 5 
cents. 

' The follov/ing manufacturers make satisfactory meters and dry gas regulators: Reynolds 
Gas Regulator Co., Anderson, Indiana; Sprague Meter Company, Bridgeport, Connecticut; 
Equitable Meter Company, Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania; American Meter Company, 105 W. 
40th Street, New York City. Oven and other thermometers of excellent quality and in a 
variety of forms, are supplied by Taylor Instrument Company, Rochester, New York. 



160 THE JOTJRNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [April 

a distance of If inches from top of burner to bottom of vessel when the 
latter was in place. Inasmuch as recent work aU tends to show that, in 
burners of this type, — or, indeed, of most t>^s used for top burner cook- 
ing — a distance of 1 to 1| inches secures the best economy of gas, it was 
necessary to change the adjustment, making this distance IJ inches. 

Then, again, it seems hardly wise to spend a great deal of time on gas 
consimiption studies with top burners, where there is no provision for 
using more than 5000 to 7000 B. T. U. per hour,-" because, although the 
greatest economies can perhaps be thus achieved, the expenditure in 
time required for cooking is sufficiently great so that most women who 
can have the quicker service will hardly feel that they can forego it for 
the sake of the small money sa\Tng earned by so much waiting. How- 
ever, this statement is not to be understood as discouraging the use of 
the simmering burner or other arrangements for completing, at rela- 
tively low gas consumption, a cooking process which has already been 
started. 

The accompanying forms are used for recording observations taken 
during top burner cooking and oven baking, respectively. Of course, 
•not all of these data are always needed. In many instances, observa- 
tions on gas consumption during oven baking are limited to the data 
recorded under numbers 1, 2, 3, 5, 6, 7, and 8, although some indication 
of oven temperature is really necessary in order to show, for instance, 
why it takes as much gas to bake one pie as to bake three loaves of 
bread, though the latter bake longer. 

It is well imderstood that there is a great deal of variation in indi- 
vidual samples of most food materials, their condition as to water and 
fat content, the size and surface of pieces which they present when 
ready for cooking, and in other ways. Furthermore it is often difficult 
to select a sharp end-point representing any particular degree of done- 
ness of most foods. Consequently comparative studies of efficiency of 
equipment are made, whenever possible, on the process of heating water 
alone. The problem will then be to determine the effect of any given 

* For the benefit of those not accustomed to thinking in terms of British Thermal Units 
per hour, it might be added that (so far as our information goes) most cities using artificial 
gas have standards requiring somewhere in the neighborhood of 550 to 600 B. T. U. per 
cubic foot of gas supplied. Natural gas, on the other hand, usually runs higher, often about 
1000 B. T. U. per cubic foot. This fact makes a comparison between the work of different 
laboratories impossible, on the basis of cubic feet of gas used. It explains the criticism of 
certa' 1 studies in gas consumption (made with artificial gas) published several years ago in 
the Journal of Home Economics, when we observe that these protests came from users of 
natural gas. The readings in cubic feet should, of course, be reduced ultimately to B. T. U. 



1919] STUDY OF GAS CONSUMPTION 161 

arrangement upon the length of time required to bring a given weight of 
water from some stated initial temperature (e.g., 60°F.) to the boiling 
point. It will readily be noted by any observer of gas consumption with 
different equipments that, so far as the ordinary (covered) top-burner 
cooking utensOs are concerned, the most important single factor in se- 
curing gas economy by household management is the relative diameters 
of burner and base of utensil, prox-iding distance between burner and ves- 
sel has been proper!}' adjusted. If the bottom of the utensil does not 
project some little distance beyond the edge of the flame on all sides, 
there will be an imjiecessarj- loss of heat (hot air and products of com- 
bustion) streaming up, though m\'isibly, all about the kettle. We real- 
ized this fact ver}' keenly when working with one of the so-called "gas- 
savers" sold in hardware stores. It does not save gas; in fact it often 
has the contrary effect, — for, though the burner uses the same amount 
of gas per hour with and without the "saver," yet the latter wrongly 
directs the flame, so that, when heating water in a dishpan or large 
tea kettle, about 25 per cent increase in time is required to bring the 
same amount of water to the boiling point, with the "saver" in place. 
WTien, however, an ordinary* saucepan, measuring six inches across the 
bottom and holding 2 quarts of water, was used in these comparative 
tests, the efficiency was so low and the loss of heat about the sides of 
the vessel so great that the misdirection of the flame by the "saver" 
could affect no further waste. The cause of this low degree of efficiency 
is, of course, found in the limitations imposed upon the rate of absorp- 
tion of heat by the water, due to the limited conductivity of the vessel 
and the small amount of surface exposed to the flame. 

The per cent of efficiency of any given set of conditions is the final test 
of gas economy. In the case of water-heating, it may be determined by 
dividing the number of B. T. U. actually absorbed by tlie water (product 
of weight in pounds by temperature-interval in degrees F.) by the 
nimiber of B. T. U. actually used, as indicated by the meter and the 
value in B. T. U. per cubic foot of the gas used. These percentages 
var>' widely even in the best of our ordinary household practices: from 
20 to 40 per cent would represent a good proportion of them, in case of 
top-burner cooking, — though the efficiency sometimes reaches 50 per 
cent. These facts are the basis of the statement, occasionally made, 
that the ordinary kitchen range as it is usually managed, wastes five- 
sixths of the heat supplied to it. A study of the many de\-ices suggested 
for conserving gas with the kitchen range, offers a very wide and fruitful 
field. 



162 THE JOURNAL OE HOME ECONOMICS [April 

FORM OF RECORD FOR STUDY OF GAS CONSUMPTION, TOP BURNER COOKING 

1. Date. 2. Hour of day- 3. Barometric pressure. 4. Temperature of gas. 
5. Pressure of gas. 6. Number designating burner used. 

7. Description of pan or vessel used: material of which it is made; character 

of surface, black or bright, rough or smooth; weight, or thickness of 
walls; general shape; diameter at bottom, at top; excess of diameter at 
bottom over diameter of burner used; depth, capacity of vessel. 

8. Cover used: material, weight, diameter. 

9. Amount of water to be heated. Temperature of water at beginning of 

heating period. 

10. Amount of other material to be heated, if any. Careful description or 

specification of such material, of amount of surface exposed. Tem- 
perature when put in to cook. 

11. Distance of bottom of utensil from top of gas ports. 

12. Final temperature of water; of cooked material, if any (take temperature 

in center of mass). 

13. Time of cooking. 14. Cubic feet of gas used. 15. B. T. U. used. 

FORM OF RECORD FOR STUDY OF GAS CONSUMPTION, OVEN BAKING 

1. Date. 2. Hour of day. 3. Pressure of gas. 4. Barometric pressure. 

5. Number designating oven used. (Description of oven should be some- 

where recorded: dimensions; material of which walls are made; thick- 
ness of walls and floor; number, form, and size of burners; number of 
gas ports each contains; method of circulation of products of combus- 
tion — whether into or around oven. Measurements of relative humid- 
ity inside the oven would certainly be very desirable, if some one can 
develop a practicable method for taking them). 

6. Material baked. Description of: composition, weight, number of units 

(rolls, loaves, etc.). 

7. Prehminary period of oven heating: time, cubic feet of gas, B. T. U. used. 

8. Period of baking: time, cubic feet of gas, and B. T. U. used. 

9. Temperature of oven at 5 minute intervals. The graphic form of record 

is the best; i.e., plot curve having time intervals as ordinates and 
temperature readings as abscissae. 

10. Weight of food material after baked. (Percentage loss in weight due to 

baking). 

11. Temperature in center of mass of food material, immediately on taking it 

from the oven. (Better still, a curve showing the temperature changes, 
during baking, in the center of the mass of food material. Such a 
record can be obtained by the use of thermocouple with potention etc). 

12. Comments, or score showing quality of product as determined by baking. 

13. Cost of gas per pound or per serving of baked food. 



1919] STUDY OF THE PRESENT COST OF FOOD 163 

A STUDY OF THE PRESENT COST OF FOOD 

JEAN KRUEGER 
Assistant Professor of Home Economics, Uni-vcrsUy of Wisconsin 

During this period of rising prices, old budget percentages are not of 
much help to the home maker, struggling to keep her family well and 
happy on a limited income. Instructors in household management 
have likewise had readjustments to make while those in charge of prac- 
tice houses are still feeling their way. In these establishments the 
question is not only what standard of li\dng should be maintained, but, 
at present, upon what sum the students should be expected to maintain 
it. 

Li "ante-bellum" days the house management students at the Uni- 
versity of Wisconsin Practice Cottage were given a maximum of thirty- 
five cents a day a person for raw food material — the equivalent of S12.25 
a week for a famUy of five adults. With this sum, the girls not only 
managed successfully, but foimd there was still sufficient money in the 
purse to enable them to entertain two guests each week at a semi-formal 
dinner and four guests at luncheon. This year the amount to be spent 
for food has necessarily been increased. With all prices soaring it was 
impossible in September to set a maximum allowance; so each group, 
realizing that a crown of laurel was due the one which succeeded in 
keeping its mem.bers well fed at the least cost, strove to see what the 
standard must be. 

Since the work in household management follows the course m die- 
tetics given in the junior year, the students' ability to plan menus is 
presupposed, and emphasis is placed upon the wise expenditure of energy 
and money, as well as upon the balanced ration. The food served has 
always been simple. Breakfast usually consists of fruit, cereal or hot 
bread, and a beverage. Eggs appear at least once during the week, 
and other mornings the protein is supplied by the whole milk on the 
cereal and the eggs in the mufSns. For variation, the fniit is frequently 
omitted and marmalade takes its place. At limcheon, the protein may 
be serv-ed in a "meat substitute" dish of cheese, lentils, eggs, or occa- 
sionally fish, or in a cream soup. With the addition of a hot bread and a 
salad the meal is complete. A simple dessert often takes the place of 
the latter. Tea or cocoa appears when soup is not on the menu. For 
the evening meal there is meat, or a substitute for it, a starchy vegetable 
or cereal, two succulent vegetables — one of which may be served in 



164 



THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS 



[April 



salad form if the luncheon had no salad — and a simple dessert. On 
"guest night" the dinner begins more formally with soup and ends with 
cafe noir. 

In order that the work of the different groups may be fairly compared, 
the students present a full report at the end of their week at the cottage. 
One phase of this report gives the percentage of the total expenditure 
spent on various items of the food budget. This material has been 
organized into the following table and shows what has been possible 
this year in relation to the tendency during more normal times. 

Percentages of Total Expenditure 



KIND OF FOOD 



Beverages 

Bread, cookies, and wafers 

Butter and butter substitutes. . 

Cheese 

Cream 

Eggs 

Flour and cereals 

Fruit, canned and dried 

Fruit, fresh 

Lard and substitutes 

Meat and fish 

Milk 

Miscellaneous 

Oils 

Sugar 

Vegetables, canned and dried . . . 

Vegetables, fresh 

Total cost per week (dollars) . 



per cent 

1.8 

2.7 

9.6 

1.5 

5.6 

6.8 

3.9 

5.9 

9.09 

1.5 

22.2 
4.9 
6.2 
1.2 
3.4 
3.5 
9.06 

12.25 



OCTOBER-DECEMBER, 1918 



Group 1 Group 2 Group 3 Group 4 Group 5 Group 6 Group 7 



per cent 

1.6 



4 

5 

2 

1 

3 

6.4 

3.5 
10.9 

2.2 
21.4 

6.05 
13.38 

1.34 

0.44 

13.76 
16.40 



Per cent 

0.15 
3.7 
8.1 
1.7 
4.0 
4.8 
8.6 
4.9 
8.7 
2.2 
19.0 
6.4 
9.6 
3.8 
0.95 
3.6 
12.3 
14.49 



Per cent 

2.07 

5.0 

3.36 

1.8 

2.4 

6.03 

1.3 

4.8 

7.9 

1.2 
24.0 

7.0 
12.29 

2.0 

0.97 

6.6 
10.5 
15.645 



per cent 

3.0 
2.1 
8.2 
0.9 
4.6 
2.8 
1.7 
4.2 
5.4 

17.41 
10.6 
11.77 

2.55 
9.59 

11.47 
14.525 



Per cent 

2.3 
3.5 
5.9 

2.8 
9.7 

7.2 
2.7 
5.9 
2.8 

16.6 
8.0 

11.1 
0.25 
2.07 
8.4 
7.8 

15.54 



per cent 

2.5 

2.4 

5.5 

2.1 

3.1 

4.0 

4.4 

4.3 
12.0 

0.9 
23.9 

7.6 

7.5 

1.0 

1.7 

4.5 
12.5 
16.275 



per cent 
0.9 
3.6 
8.0 
2.7 
7.05 
3.6 
5.09 
6.6 
6.5 
1.7 
19.1 
6.2 
1.2 
0.05 
3.4 
11.5 
11.7 
16.45 



As is to be expected, the per cents in many cases are higher for 1918 
than those for 1914. In the case of meat and butter, the reverse is true 
in spite of the steady rise in price of these commodities. This is due 
largely to the increased use of substitutes for both items. The lower 
per cent for butter is also due to a continued observance of the "bread- 
less meal" at the cottage. Since bread at dinner is really a case of 
"coals to Newcastle" and since conservation measures have taught us 
to do very well without it, the girls think that continuing the habit is 
an easy way of cutting expense. The percentages in general vary with 
the individual tastes of a group, but in some cases the variance is due to a 



1919] 



STUDY OF THE PRESENT COST OF FOOD 



165 



lack of ability to cope with the situation. Those groups spending the 
most seem to have done so because of lack of wisdom in buying. Groups 
1 and 6, for instance, paid more for meat and fresh fruit than was neces- 
sary- for the good of the family. Group 7 was extravagant in its use of 
cream as well in paying seventy-six cents a pound for butter. The pro- 
portion spent for butter by the girls in Group 2 was even greater, but 
they were so economical along other lines that their total expenditure 
was below average. Thus the work of each group may be analyzed. 
However, many of the differences are what one would expect to find in 
comparing a number of food budgets. 

The following tables, also organized from the weekly reports, show 
the total results of each group's experiment. 

Cost of Raw Food 





NCUBER OF PLATES 


COST OF RAW 

FOOD PER 5 

DAVS 


COST PER 
PER DAY 


COST FOR 




Regular 
family 


GuesU 


Total 




October 21 

October 28 

November 4 


75 
75 
75 
69 

75 
75 
75 
77 


9 

7 
6 
10 
10 
10 
6 
2 


84 
82 
81 
79 
85 
85 
81 
79 


S13.236 
11.372 
12.1219 
11.0147 
12.609 
13.221 
12.756 
12.285 


$.471 
.414 
.447 
.417 
.444 
.465 
.47 
.477 


S16.40 
14.49 
15.645 
14 525 




15 54 


November 23 


16 275 




16 45 


Januarj' 6 


16.695 


Average 








12.32 


.45 


15.75 



Cost of Prepared Food 



DATE 


COST OF FUEL USED IN 
FOOD PREPARATION 


ICE 


COST OF PRE- 
PARED FOOD PER 
5 DAYS 


COST PER 
PERSON 
PER DAY 


COST FOR 
FAMILY OF 5 




Gas 


Electricity 




October 21 


S.66 

.907 

.925 

.462 

.59 

.66 

.682 

.65 


S.15 

.017 
.079 

.118 
.118 
.10 


S.15 
.075 
.40 

.15 
.15 


S14.196 
12.354 
13.467 
11.93 
13.349 
14.149 
13.56 
13.0358 


$.507 
.45 
.498 
.453 
.471 
.499 
.50 
..S07 


§17.745 
15.75 
17.43 
15.855 
16.485 
17.465 
17 50 


October 28 














17.745 












13.25 


.48 


17 CO 





•Estimated, since girls remain at cottage but 5 days. 



166 THE JOUENAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [April 

Some groups have been much more successful than others, but, from 
the figures obtained from their united efforts, it appears that 45 cents 
per day per person — or about $15.75 per week for a family of five 
women, all of whom are grown — is more nearly the amount needed 
under present conditions for raw food material. 

It is hoped that this study, which is offered merely as a basis of com- 
parison for those having similar work under their direction will result in 
reports of the work being done in other practice houses. 



COOPERATIVE RESEARCH IN EXPERIMENTAL COOKERY 

At the recent meeting of the American Home Economics Association 
several members of the Science Section interested in experimental cook- 
ery met with Miss Denton, representing the OiSce of Home Economics, 
and Miss Blimt, Chairman of the Science Section, to discuss the possi- 
bility of cooperative research in this work. This is a development of 
previous plans made both by the Science Section and by the Office of 
Home Economics. Dr. Langworthy, of the OflBce of Home Economics; 
Miss White, President of the American Home Economics Association; 
and Miss Harris, Chairman of the Home Economics Section of the 
American Association of Agricultural Colleges and Experiment Stations, 
have been consulted, and the present project will be imdertaken with the 
cooperation of these organizations. It is obxdous that we need coopera- 
tion for at least two purposes: 

(1) We need to work out standard methods of procedure. Ask those 
who have worked on the subject what they think of Master's report, 
in the Biochemical Journal, that soaking legumes over-night does not 
decrease the time required for cooking to any considerable extent. One 
worker remarks: "If she had used tap water she would have found that 
soaking decreased the time of cooking very greatly." Another observes 
"With as hard a water as we have soaking increases the time of cook- 
ing instead of decreasing." Equally contradictory results have been 
reported in many other problems. It is evident that results are con- 
tradictory only because not all of the variants involved have been recog- 
nized. Workers in agriculture, in food chemistry, in bacteriology, and 
in other kinds of practical research have developed standard methods. 
It is time for us to do it. 



1919] COOPERATIVE RESEARCH IN EXPERIMENTAL COOKERY 167 

(2) We need to exchange experimental results. Only those who 
have talked with workers representing widely scattered institutions can 
realize how much good material is locked away in the records of home 
economics workers all over the country. A piece of work possibly only 
partially finished by one investigator might be dove-tailed into that of 
others, so that a really big product would result from the combination. 

Are the members of the Association in favor of such cooperation? 
Will you subscribe to the following plan? 

(1) To choose a few lines of work for emphasis before the June meet- 
ing of the American Home Economics Association. The lines suggested 
are listed in paragraph 3 below. 

(2) To ask everyone who has done work on these subjects to send a 
full report before May 28 to the Chairman of the Science Section of the 
American Home Economics Association who will, in turn, send the 
reports to a sub-chairman for each subject. The Chairman and the 
various sub-chairmen, of course, agree to make no use of the results with- 
out the consent of the person submitting them. 

(3) In order to assist in the making of these reports by the different 
investigators, to have suggestive outlines formulated by some one or 
more workers from those they themselves use, and to have them sent to 
all interested in the same line of work. Of these outhnes Miss Denton 
of the Experimental Kitchen in the Office of Home Economics has pre- 
pared those on "Cooking of Dried Vegetables and Fruits," "Jelly- 
making," "Records of Gas Consumption in Top Burner Cooking," 
"Records of Gas Consumption in Oven Cooking;" Miss Elizabeth Miller 
of Iowa State College has prepared that on "Cooking of Fresh Vege- 
tables;" Miss Denton and Miss Miller are cooperating in the making of 
outlines for "Record of Operations in Cake Making," and "Record of 
Operations in Pastry Making;" and Miss Blunt and Miss Denton are 
cooperating in the outhne on "Fat Absorption and Changes in Fat in 
Frying." One of Miss Denton's articles appeared in the March Jour- 
nal, and a second is in this number. 

(4) To bring together the various reports for discussion at the June 
meeting so that new points for investigation may be brought out and 
the possibility of joint publication considered. 

If you approve of this plan, please send to the Chairman of the Science 
Section for such outlines as you desire, and also send your own report 
to her. This letter is being sent to all those who have recently reported 
to Dr. Langworthy. 



168 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [April 

AGRICULTURE OF THE HIDATSA INDIANS— AN INDIAN 
INTERPRETATION! 

The author collected his information during the summers of 1912-1915, 
at Fort Berthold reservation, from a Hidatsa woman, born about 1839, who 
prepared the food for her family, as well as tilled the soil. Much of tlris vol- 
ume is devoted to characteristic dishes evolved from the agricultural products. 

Corn, beans, squashes, and sunflower seeds played an important part inthe 
diet of the early Hidatsa Indians. The sunflower seeds were parched and 
pounded into a meal which was cooked with parched corn meal, dried squash, 
and beans, and constituted an important winter dish which they designated 
as "four- vegetables, mixed." Sunflower-seed meal, because, of its high oil 
content, could be squeezed into balls. These balls were wrapped in pieces of 
buffalo heart skin and were used by the Indian warrior in much the same 
way as sweet chocolate is used by the modern soldier. Small fresh squashes 
were boiled whole with a small amount of water in earthen pots covered with 
sunflower leaves. The seeds were also eaten, and taste, according to the 
narrator (Buffalobird woman), much the same as peanuts. Quantities of 
squash, and some of the squash blossoms, were eaten or dried for winter use. 
The squashes were sliced and the squash rings threaded on willow spits and 
hung in the air to dry. After three days these were removed from the willow 
spits, strung on dried grass, and hung in the lodge until ready for storing. 
When using the dried squash the Indian woman cut a piece of the string as 
long as from her elbow to the tip of her thumb, tied the string together, and 
dropped the ring of squash into boiling water. When done it was lifted out 
by the string, mashed with a horn spoon, and the string removed. 

Of the several varieties of beans used, the narrator prefers the black bean, 
although of late years she says she has grown mostly white beans, since it is 
easier to sell them to the white men. The beans were cooked, in earlier 
times, with buffalo meat or bone grease and in combination with other foods. 
The Hidatsa cultivated nine distinct varieties of corn, all of them used as 
food. Even the black masses of corn smut were eaten after drying and cook- 
ing with the half boiled dried corn. The fresh green corn was boiled or roasted 
on the cob or shelled, pounded in a mortar, and boiled with beans or made into 
so-called green corn bread by baking the corn pulp in corn husks. The corn 
was dried by boiling on the cob and allowing the cobs to dry overnight and 
then shelling, and the drying continued. The ripe corn was made into hom- 
iny or was parched and ground into a meal. This meal was boiled with water 
to form boiled corn balls or it was cooked with beans or dried squash. 

The seasoning used in many of the native Hidatsa dishes was obtained by 
burning corn cobs and collecting the crust that formed on top of the ashes. 

1 G. L. Wilson, Bui. Univ. Minn. No. 9 (1917), pp. viii -|- 129, pis. 5, figs. 40. 



FOR THE HOMEMAKER 

THE HOUSE SPEAKS» 

ARTHUR D. DEAN 
Teachers College, Columbia University 

I am glad that I am here with you all. It is good to hold within 
myself those who can fill me with joy, contentment, and purpose. I 
am grateful for the expressions of clear thinking, clean doing and child 
love of those about me. I am joyous that the voice of youth passes my 
doors mellowing me in my old age and recaUing the days when I was 
built by youth. I am pleased with my natural setting of trees, the 
odor of sweet grasses and the bloom of flowering shrubs. I am fond of 
hstening to words of endearment, of watching httle marks of affection, 
of interpreting signs of understanding between that big fellow John and 
his mate, bright-eyed Vida, and httle John junior. 

I am always watching the people in this house — those who come and 
go, those who seem to come and never really go, those who go without 
really ever coming, and those — three — good people who always stay. 

Everj^one speaks of me. Some say I am cute — odd — different. 
Some say I am pretty — attractive — homey. But those three about me 
just say "Home." 

But I insist that I am more than odd, attractive, or pretty. I am a 
message — a message of sincerity, simphcity, service. 

I am a prototjpe of the habitations of Colonial New England. My 
anccstr)' held sturdy, serviceable, sincere people. Today I again hold 
such people. My very bones are hewed from logs; my heart is a huge 
fireplace of warmth, of crackling forces, of brilliant coloring; my hands 
reach through the doors and welcome the passing stranger to a share at 
our simple board. 

' Reprint of the booklet by the same name. 

The author's note on his booklet is "The prototj-pe of a New England home of Colonial 
days built in that north countrj' of the upper peninsula of Jlichigan spoke from out of its 
heart to me one soft summer evening in July, 1913." 

169 



170 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [April 

How hard my ancestry struggled to hold its people to the mamier 
bom — of integrity, of purpose, of simphcity. But we were called cold, 
puritanical, set in our ways. We were made over, modernized, brought 
up to date. My roof — I should say my head — was filled with a lot of 
stickouts until I leaked the waters of the heavens. I was plastered over 
with side additions until I was scattered over the ground. My heart 
was removed and in its place there appeared a gas log. My ribs became 
h'ttle sticks and it seemed that I would break under the load. They 
filled me with gaudy stuff and flaunted the cost tag before my eyes. 
They filled my corners with gim-cracks. They closed my eyes with lace 
curtains. They covered my feet with strange and fearful weavings. 
They tied my hospitable hands with formaUties and receptions. 

I lost my identity completely. They crowded me uith other dis- 
appointed ancestors and called me an apartment. People still came. 
They still went. But no one stayed. The theatre was their round 
table. The street comer was their door step. The vaudeville was 
their prayer. I became a bedroom and a bath. I was to be used when 
everj^thing else in town was shut up. Oh! the ignommy of it all. 

But now I am again in the world of living things. A thousand miles 
from my birthplace I again softly whisper my message in this north 
country where city throngs are yet to come and where I can whisper — ■ 
simplicity, sincerity, purpose. 

I want these people who speak of me as home to know how much 
they fill me with their strong life purpose — their humanness and their 
understanding. When they built me they built what they were them- 
selves — simple, strong, straight. They, like me, are open, clean, straight 
Uned. 

We shall grow old graciously. I shall shed the rain and avoid decay. 
They will throw oS discontent and not harden with the passing of youth. 
I shall take on the rich color of age. They will gather the soft tones of 
repose in their faces yet to age. 

Together we bring up the youth in this place — the older two by words 
and deeds; I by silent example. I will let the soft air of summer sweep 
across the rooms of childhood. I will guard the boy from the -winter's 
chill. I will hold up my straight Knes that he may see tlie straight 
way. I will show him my simphcity that he may learn sincerity. I 
will lay before him my simple decorative effects that he may feel the 
importance of a touch of the esthetic on a back-ground of solidarity. 
I will stand fimi on my foundations that he may know the value of 



1919] THE HOME AND THRIFT 171 

integrity. I will line my walls with books tliat he may know of the 
world of thought and action. I will have space for instruments of 
music that he may be spiritually strengthened in the world of endeavor. 
I will withhold from extravagance that he may learn the value of the 
necessary and the simple. 

I live for those two who built me. I live for the child whom together 
we are shaping into high ideals of service rendering — rendered with 
joy, simplicity, and purpose. I am glad that I am here. May they 
who hold me with papers legal know that I hold them as their Home. 



THE HOME AND THRIFT 

The school may do much to teach thrift among the young, but it can- 
not do as much as the home. In this the nursery of the nation, the 
fundamental things of hfe are instilled into the mind of the child. In 
proportion as this is done well, or badly, will the next generation make 
valuable citizens. 

The people of France, Belgium, and Holland are famous for their 
thrift. How did they become so? Through the influence of the home. 
Necessity, combined with good sense, years ago taught the fathers and 
mothers in these countries to be thrifty, and the lessons of thrift have 
been faithfully handed down from one generation to another. 

The rising generation will be thrifty if thrift is taught and practiced 
in the homes of this country. The school may do much to promote sav- 
ing, but it cannot do nearly as much as the home, since the former only 
has the child for a few hours a day. 

Department of Information, Ottawa. 



Waste has no right to exist anywhere under any circumstances." 



172 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [April 

BUDGET MAKING 

S. AGNES DONHAM 
The Garland School of Bamemaking, Boston 

Early in her experience with teaching the distribution of the family 
income, the writer became aware of the fact that the "ideal percentages" 
could be ideal only within certain very restricted limits. An income 
above five thousand dollars offered wider possibilities in savings and 
higher life ; operating easily outran its percentage limits, though its com- 
ponent parts still seemed legitimate, even wise, expenditures. Food, 
too, dropped below its limit, and the cost of shelter was frequently much 
below or far beyond the amount of the ideal, according to circumstances 
of en\'ironjnent or standards. 

WTien the income was below three thousand dollars, the cost of food 
enough to nourish the family at once exceeded the ideal and again the 
percentages serv^ed only as a point from which to depart. 

Added to these difficulties was the fact that the untrained budget 
maker is afraid of percentages. They appear like a ferocious beast 
ready to devour all attempts at planned distribution of the income. 
However, it was not tmtil war time, with its attendant changes in the 
cost of living necessities, that the following method of teaching the 
budget was evolved. 

It has been successful with girls whose kind had stumbled along •\\'ith 
percentage divisions very unhappily, and it has frequently proved 
helpful to housewives who would have fled from the old methods in 
dismay. 

Starting with the enumeration of all known expenditures for a family 
of four or five, these are grouped under the five heads made famiUar by 
Mrs. Richards. The writer earnestly pleads for the retention of these, 
and believes that the whole subject of income distribution would be 
simpHfied if every teacher and housewife would adopt the same general 
headings and fit subdivisions to their individual needs. It is only by 
such a course that the actual experiences of budget makers will ever be 
available for comparison with others, and profitable for study. 

Taking then the five general headings — Food, shelter, clothing, 
operating, and higher life — the class discusses first the arrangement of 
all expenditures under these di\isions. 



1919] BUDGET MAKING 173 

Food: All bills for food and ice, whether consumed at home or at 
work, or in a public eating place. 

Shelter: Rent and business carfare, or interest on investment, taxes, 
house repairs, business carfare, and fire insurance. 

Clothing: All clothing, new materials, sewing materials, making, 
repairs, and cleaning. 

Operating: Heat, Hght, water, service, laimdry, household supplies, 
telephone, inside repairs, replacement and repair of equipment, station- 
er}-, postage and express, small miscellaneous house expenses, news- 
paper, incidental carfare, etc. 

Higher Life: Health — doctor, dentist, oculist, optician, nurse, medi- 
cine, and supplies. Church dues. Culture — theatre, concerts and lec- 
tures, books and magazines, travel. Education — schools, public or 
private, special lessons, text books. New equipment. Philanthropy. 
Savings. Social life — club dues, recreation, entertaining, gifts. 

The fact is brought out that food, shelter, and clothing are the essen- 
tials; that most expenses for operating, outside of heat, Hght, and water, 
are only possible when there is a margin; that money spent for higher 
life is also spent from the margin; that expenditures for the three essen- 
tials increase with an increase in the amount of the margin; and that in 
each division there are expenditures which might as properly be placed 
in the last — higher life, or region of choice — were it not that it is useless 
to di\'ide expenditures into absolute essentials and margin, for one is at 
once confronted with the knowledge that essentials for one family are 
luxuries for another. Arbitrary di\'ision must be made and it has over 
and over proved desirable to make it upon the basis of natural division 
rather than to spht hairs and try to determine what portion of the 
amount paid for rent is essential for shelter, and what portion is spent 
to gratify a desire for comfort or enjojonent. When the amoimt spent 
overruns its apportionment, however, these facts must be considered in 
making a decision as to whether the expenditure is Justifiable. 

Ha\ing the distribution of expenditures weU in mind and some knowl- 
edge of the actual costs which must be met from a comfortable income, 
the class is ready for the analysis. 

Study of actual incomes of which some of the details of expenditure 
arc known proves far more impressive and effective than the analysis 
of arbitrary amounts with no actual data except a general idea of costs 
in a tj-pical commimity. It is here that the plan for di\asion without 
the use of percentages is developed. 



174 



THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS 



[April 



Psychology is a positive factor in any method of procedure, and for 
some reason the ordinary human being finds it easier to save if he plans 
expenditures without reference to saving. To meet this quirk in reason- 
ing, the savings are treated as a separate siun, and the remainder of 
the income divided as if it were the whole. The plan necessitates a 
decision as to the amount the family may expect to save, and then the 
di\-ision of the remainder into five equal parts, each of which represents 
the apportionment for one of our headings. 

To illustrate this graphically, draw a circle, write above the circle the 
amount to be saved, divide the circle into five equal parts, name each 
part, and write in it the amount of its apportiormient. (See figure 1.) 
Each class of expenditures is considered worthy of its share of the full 
income, and at the begiiming of the discussion the groups are treated as 
of equal importance. 

Income 31600 
Save 8100 





FoodBXo 



Fig. 1 



Fig. 2 



The fact is readily brought out that from an "existence income" food 
will be purchased before any thing else, that shelter will be the second 
consideration, that clothing enough to cover the law costs little, that 
heat and water are the operating expenses first incurred, and that with 
a very small income there is httle or no margin beyond what is required 
for these essentials. 

The expenditures for food are the first consideration. With a small 
income where food demands nearly all of the money, the figures fur- 
nished by the Boston Dietetic Bureau are used as a basis of reckoning. 
The minimum amount required according to the ages and work of the 



1919] BUDGET M.'VKING 175 

members of the especial family mider consideration is taken as a start- 
ing point. In several cases it has been possible to fix $10 a week for 
the round figure necessary to purchase adequate food for the families 
under discussion. It is at once e\ident that the $1500 family must use 
from its margin to pro\'ide food enough to nourish, and this is done 
usually by deciding that one hundred dollars must be taken from operat- 
ing expense and one hundred from higher hfe. 

Discussion sometimes leads to a division of opinion as to the source of 
the other $20, some preferring to reduce the rent, others claiming that 
in most communities $300 is the least amount for which safe shelter can 
be obtained. It usually ends in taking from shelter if it can be shown 
that the family has at present safe shelter at lower cost than its appor- 
tioiunent allows, otherwise taking from higher life, and the circle is 
again changed to correspond to the new apportionment. (See figure 2.) 
With a ver>' small income the space for higher life is soon nearly taken 
up by the new apportionments, the space for operating is cut to the 
amoimt necessary for heat, hght, and water; and tlie apportionment for 
clothing is greatly reduced, sometimes disappearing altogether if cloth- 
ing is given to the family. 

If, as frequently happens, the amoimt necessary for adequate food, 
safe shelter, essential operating, and necessary clothing has used all 
the circle, it is evident that too much has been set aside for savings, and 
a new chart is made, starting with smaller savings. 

The questions which puzzle the beginner, without definite knowledge 
of former expenditures, are in regard to the amounts necessary for 
operating, higher life, food, and clothing. Lists of questions in regard 
to cost of fuel, hght, water, rents, taxes, insurance, telephone service, 
interest, income tax, service, are given to the class and information is 
obtained from friends and any source possible. In some cases visits to 
real estate agents have solved disputed questions as to rents to be paid. 

When all the information possible has been gathered together the 
probable expenditures in each group are subdivided imder three heads: 
fixed charges, charges possible to estimate, and charges necessary to 
limit; for example, in the shelter group, rent is a fixed charge, business 
carfare may be a fixed charge, taxes are possible to estimate, interest is a 
fixed charge, outside repairs are necessary to limit. 

With $300 a year to spend for shelter, rent at $20 a month will equal 
$240, and business carfare will be estimated at $50, giving a total of 



176 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [April 

If the house is owned, interest at 5 per cent on $2000 will be $100 
and will be a fixed charge; taxes may be estimated at $60; and carfare 
at $50, which would leave $90 for repairs, a charge necessary' to limit. 
In the same way it is possible to build a foundation for each group of 
expenditures. When the fLxed charges and estimates equal the appor- 
tionment the other possible expenses will necessarily be omitted or 
must come from another apportionment; but when, as in the case of 
higher life, most of the e.xpenditures fall under the head of charge 
necessary' to limit, it becomes a game in choice of values. 

Students frequently ask what is to be done in case of an illness which 
consumes more than the limit set. The answer is obvious, one must 
either use savings or reduce expenditures for the less essential factors in 
that group. The same thing exists throughout the budget. If one 
departs from the original plan it should be because increase in income 
makes it possible, or by making a conscious change, relinquishing some 
planned expenditure entirely or reducing the quality or quantity pur- 
chased. Such changes should always be made \vithin the group, if 
possible. 

The advantages of this plan and its graphic illustration are, first of 
all, that each group of expenditures is given due regard; second, that no 
group can entirely disappear without consciousness; third, that it has 
features which satisfy the psychological attitude of many people who 
are afraid of percentages; fourth, that it shows very plainly when a 
family is trjong to save more than the size of the income warrants. It 
is especially useful in showing faults in budgeting which the beginner 
often cannot recognize by tlie percentage method. 

With sufficient food and safe shelter always considered first, and 
suitable clothing and essential operating next, higher life is still not 
ignored if there is any margin at all. 

One most important result is the formation of conscious standards for 
each group of e.xpenditures. These should result from the making and 
use of any good budget; but it is a favorite theory of the writer that no 
good budget is ever worked out until the maker has first formulated his 
standards and, by comparison, eliminated those which are imworthy 
and substituted better — or, in other words, measured standards by each 
other and fitted them to the income so that one group is not unduly 
considered at the expense of another. 



1919] SOME PRE-WAR PRICES, 1S60 177 

SOME PRE-WAR PRICES, 1860 

AND THEIR INCREASE 

Many comparisons have been made between the cost of living at this 
time and shortly after the Civil War. It is worth while, when we are 
discontented, to remind ourselves again of the change in prices that 
took place at that time. 

The following record illustrates the low prices that prevailed before 
the war: 

FROM AN OLD ACCOUNT BOOK (i860) 
Febriiary 

\ gal. molasses $ 25 

pk. potatoes 25 

4 lbs. butter 1.12 

50 lb. commeal 1.25 

lOJ lbs. shoulder 1 .OS 

i lb. tea 31 

quart oil 31 

March 

J gal. molasses 31 

5 lb. beef 70 

11 lbs. sugar 1.00 

April 

bbl. flour 7 .25 

3 doz. eggs 45 

2 lbs. coffee 40 

h gal. molasses 28 

May 

50 lbs. of meal 1.12 

2 lbs. butter 50 

After the war, flour went as high as $22.00 a barrel in 1865. Sugar 
sold at 3 pounds for $1.00. Butter rose from 20 or 25 cents a pound to 
75 cents. Cereals, vegetables, teas, and coffee doubled in price, and 
pork that sold at wholesale for $20.00 a barrel went to $60.00. In 
1864 coal was $19.00 a ton and kerosene 90 cents a gallon. Spool 
cotton was 30 cents a spool, unbleached sheeting 40 inches wide was 
60 cents a yard, muslins that were 6j to 12^ cents rose to 75 cents, and 
some of them were withdrawn from the market at that price. 



178 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [April 



MINERAL MATTER IN THE DIET 

DORA L. EARL 

The time is here for me to save 

The juice from off the greens, 
For herein lies the best there is 

In spinach and string beans. 

Without the mineral in my food 

I could not life retain; 
And so I'll save the part of it 

That oft goes down the drain. 

I'll eat the beet and turnip tops, 

The dock and dandelion. 
And all the fruits and vegetables 

That I can get my eye on. 

Then, too, I'U have both milk and eggs 

For they are rich and rare; 
And then to save the mineral, 

My potatoes I'll not pare. 

But all the breads and breakfast foods 

I must not here omit; 
For when from unhuUed grains they're made 

They've mineral quite a bit. 

The aU important point is this: 

I must have mineral matter, 
And I'll eat anything that has it. 

From purslane to hard water. 



EDITORIAL 

standardizing Research Work in Home Economics. The Science 
Section of the American Home Economics Association deserves much 
praise for forw-arding the scheme aheady undertaken by the Office of 
Home Economics in standardiziag methods of procedure for research 
work in experimental cookery. Many have felt for a long time that 
much good work is faihng of part of its purpose because it has not been 
brought together, interpreted, checked up, and translated into terms 
that make it usable for practical purposes. The experimental kitchen 
of the Office of Home Economics, as is indicated by the records al- 
ready published in the Journal, is doing much to further such research, 
but it can accomplish still more in cooperation with the Science Section, 
and with the many workers and departments that for a long time have 
been working on problems, obtaining results to their own satisfaction, 
but with no definite means of communicating them to others. It is 
surprising frequently to find that some problem, definitely and satis- 
factorily solved in one institution, has been taken up as new work at 
another, without any knowledge of the fact that experimental work has 
already been carried on. 

The JouKN.^L particularly welcomes this move. It has often been diffi- 
cult to obtain papers with the work sufficiently authenticated. Occa- 
sionally work has been pubfished that might well have been repeated 
and checked by further work before it was brought to the attention of 
our readers. This movement will give an opportunity for better formu- 
lation of results and for more legitimate conclusions. We wish it all 
success. 

Home Economics Contributions to the Fifth Liberty Loan. All 

home economics departments in public schools and in higher institutions 
are invited to make a contribution to the Ellen H. Richards Memorial 
Fund of the American Home Economics Association, in the form of a sub- 
scription to the Fifth Liberty Loan. The Richards Fund has received 
similar contributions during each Liberty Loan Campaign, and several 
institutions have already planned to raise a subscription for the Victory 

179 



180 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [April 

Loan and contribute it to the Richards Fund. Any sum may be sent 
in, and it will be used towards buying bonds to be added to this Fund. 

The Richards Fund of the Association now amounts to over $5000 
and its income will be used the next college year to support home eco- 
nomics scholarships in Chicago University and in Teachers College, 
Columbia University. 

Victory Loan Contributions should be sent to the American Home 
Economics Association, 1211 Cathedral Street, Baltimore, Md. 



COMMENT AND DISCUSSION 

AN EXTRACT FROM A LETTER 

You would be surprised if you knew how much time and trouble and 
work I have spent in endeavoring to find some one magazine devoted to 
"What American Women are doing for American Women and Children." 
However, I am quite happy since your letter came, with the two copies 
of the Journal of Home Economics. All in this household have 
appreciated the contents of the Journal and will subscribe. 

During all my travels and peeps into homes from Panama to Pata- 
gonia, I have realized that home economics is a study and practice that 
can bring health and happiness into many homes and countries south 
of us. When I was invited to speak to a College Alumnae Association, 
I chose as my subject Some Educational Needs of Girls in South America. 
That body of women is considering giving a scholarship for a South 
American girl to be educated in our country and for one girl from the 
United States to have an exchange scholarship and go to South Amer- 
ica. They have languages, art, and culture — we have training and 
education. They, too, are appreciative of the freedom and joyousness 
of the woman of Young America. 



BOOKS AND LITERATURE 

Any book or periodical mentioned in tliis department may be obtained tlirough the 
JouBNAL OF Home Economics if the Journal price is listed. 



Marketing and Housework Manual. S. 
Agnes Donham. Boston: Little, Brown 
& Co., 1917, pp. 235. SI. 50. By mail 
of the Journal, $1.60. 

The Home and Its Management. Mabel 
Hyde Kittredge. New York: The 
Century Co., 1917, pp. 385. $1.50. 
By mail of the Journal, $1.62. 

The young teacher who has been asking 
"How shall I teach household manage- 
ment?" is finding help in two texts that offer 
a key to the solution of some of the perplex- 
ing problems of the housekeeper. "Mar- 
keting and House Work Manual" comes 
from the hands of an experienced teacher 
and represents a carefully developed scheme 
of instruction presented in concise state- 
ments and easily interpreted charts. The 
extensive marketing charts dealing with 
choice of meats, fish, vegetables, fruits, and 
groceries are a real contribution to the 
student and young housewife, for they give 
illuminating suggestions as to choice, care, 
and use of foods. The housekeeper who 
has become familiar with these facts through 
long experience seldom realizes how exten- 
sive this unexplored field seems to the 
uninitiated and how much simple guidance 
of this sort is needed. The author has for 
the most part been successful in her effort 
to keep "to the short, exact statement 
that there need be no superfluous words to 
bewilder the inexperienced and irritate the 
hurried," but brevity of statement has re- 
sulted in awkard construction in one or 
two places. 

"The Home and Its Management" cov- 
ers much the same field in its first two 
hundred pages. The book was prepared for 
those who live in modest homes with a 



full understanding of their circumstances 
and problems. An attempt has been 
made to adapt the information given to 
rural as well as urban conditions. In the 
latter half of the book there are chapters on 
the care of children, food for infants, and 
home care of the sick. Directions given are 
so simple that the big sister can follow 
them in the work that often falls upon her 
in the home. The truth of a few state- 
ments may be questioned and the earnest 
teacher who has endeavored to convince 
her students that an understanding of 
principles, a knowledge of the effects of 
heat on foods, and accuracy in measure- 
ment will help her in securing skill in cook- 
ing, will resent the statement that "the 
only way to learn how to cook is by cooking 
day by day, making mistakes, producing 
unexpectedly good results, blundering along, 
working, working, working, until finally 
you instinctively know the taste of the pud- 
ding before you begin to combine the in- 
gredients." However, the very definite 
rules for cooking given convince the reader 
that Miss Kittredge knows the value of 
fundamental principles and can present 
them in a convincing way. 

Carrie Lyford, 
U. S. Bureau of Education. 

The Study of Fabrics. By Annabell 
Turner. New York: D. Appleton & 
Co., 1918, pp. 206. S1.75. By mail of 
the Journal, $1.85. 

Since women are largely responsible for 
the expenditure of the family income, it is 
most important that they should be trained 
to meet the responsibility in the most effi- 
cient way. This, of course, means they 
must be trained to spend wisely, to know 
181 



182 



THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS 



[April 



when they are receiving the value of the 
money expended. "Study of Fabrics" will 
be found to be of considerable value in train- 
ing along this line. 

A discussion is first given of the produc- 
tion of the raw materials and the manu- 
facturing processes of each of the common 
textile fibers — cotton, linen, wool, and silk. 
This discussion is not detailed enough to 
give a broad definite knowledge such as a 
college student of textiles and clothing 
would need, but would meet the needs of the 
average homemaker. 

The portion of the book that is of most 
value is that devoted to the physical and 
chemical properties of these fibers and the 
practical household tests that may be given 
to the woven fabrics to aid in the detec- 
tion of adulteration, the judging of quality, 
the care and laundering of the various 
fabrics, the hygiene of clothing, and the 
economics of bu>ing. 

In the chapter on the economics of cloth- 
ing are many very valuable suggestions as to 
when and how to buy. Legitimate reasons 
for reduced prices are given and the sugges- 
tion that, outside of these certain special 
sale values, the bargain counter should be 
avoided. Advantages and disadvantages 
of cash, charge accounts, and installment 
methods of buying are ibcluded in the 
discussion. 

Due to the direct, simple, and untechnical 
manner in which these subjects are treated, 
the book cannot fail to be of real value to 
the homemaker. 

IvA Brandt, 
lo'iva Stale College, Ames. 

Food Preparatwn. By Beth Warner Jos- 
SERAND. Peoria, lU.: The Manual Arts 
Press, 1917, pp. (Part I) 148, (Part 11) 
142. SI. 25 each. 

Food preparation is described by the pub- 
lisher as a combined laboratory guide, text 
book, and notebook for use by high scliool 
classes in domestic science. 

We agree heartily with the author in her 
statement that there is often a great loss of 



time on the part of both teacher and pupil 
in the dictation and blackboard method of 
presentation, also that the permanent and 
well arranged record of laboratory work 
should be of value to the pupil. This loose 
leaf book with detailed directions for work 
and ample space for interlinear observations 
offers itself as a solution of the problem, and 
those who have struggled with high school 
notebooks will welcome its help. 

The order of material is somewhat unusual, 
but, of course, there is no reason why it 
should be followed exactly in any given 
school. A much more serious objection can 
be raised to the fact that in a book entitled 
Food Preparation it is not until the forty- 
seventh page that there is any actual hand- 
ling of food. With a skillful teacher this 
need not affect the interest of the class, but 
under some circumstances it would prove 
disastrous. Chapter one is entitled "Equip- 
ment and Rules," but, since rules are only of 
value when the need for their help arises, 
would it not be as good pedagogy to put 
them in the background where they can be 
called up, one by one, as needed? Even 
more questionable is the outline of digestive 
processes in the same chapter which uses 
nomenclature entirely unfamiliar to the 
student in discussing substances which she 
does not know exist. 

There are many inaccuracies of statement 
and some of the material is out of date. 
For example, one experiment is devoted to 
proving the presence of albumen in milk by 
the formation of skin on heating, and the 
old factors are used in estimating food 
values. There is a good deal of obvious 
material included and the list of utensils 
given at the head of each lesson seems un- 
necessary for high school students. 

In spite of the difficulties which would 
arise in attempting to depend on the book 
as a text, there remain the ad\antages which 
it offers as laboratory guide and note book. 
In the hands of a teacher who knows how 
to use it, the book should prove very helpful. 
Frances L. Swain, 
Chicago Normal College. 



BIBLIOGRAPHY OF HOME ECONOMICS 

PERIODICAL LITERATURE 
Food and Nutrition 

Feeding Experiments with Raw and Boiled Carrots. Minna C. Denton and Emma 
Kohman, Jour. Biol. Chem., 36 (1918), pp. 249-263. 

Mineral Metabolism in Experimental Acidosis. Kingo Goto, Jour. Biol. Chcm.. 36 
(1918;, pp. 355-376. 

Further E.xperiments Relative to the Cause of the Specific Dynamic Action of Protein. 
H. V. Atkinson and Graham Lusk, Jour. Biol. Chem., 36 (1918), pp. 414-428. 

The Influence of Meat and V'arious Salts upon the Development of Scurvy. W. Pitz, 
Jour. Biol. ChefK., 36 (1918), pp. 439^66. 

The Influence of Protein Feeding on the Concentration of Amino-acids and their 
Nitrogenous Metabolites in the Tissues. H. H. Mitchell, Jour. Biol. Chem., 36 (1918), 
pp. 501-520. 

Does Water-Soluble Vitamine Function as a Catalase Activator? R. A. Dutcher, Jour. 
Biol. Chcm., 36 (1918), pp. 547-550. 

Observations on the Curative Properties of Honey, Nectar, and Corn Pollen in Avian 
Polyneuritis. R. A. Dutcher, Jmir. Biol. Chcm., 36 (1918), pp. 551-556. 

The IMeasureraent of the Acidity of Bread. E. J. Cohn, P. H. Cathcart, and L. J. Hen- 
derson, Jour. Biol. Chem., 36 (1918), pp. 581-586. 

Supplementary Relationship Between the Proteins of Certain Seeds. E. V. McCollum, 
N. Simmonds, and H. T. Parsons, Jour. Biol. Chcm., 37 (1919), pp. 155-178. 

The Vitamimes in Green Foods. T. B. Osborne and L. B. Mendel, Jour. Biol. Chem., 
37 (1919), pp. 187-200. 

The Influence of High Temperatures and Dilute .\lkalies on the .Antineuritic Properties 
of Foods. Jour. Biol. Chem., 37 (1919), pp. 201-213. 

Dietary Studies Made in the Missouri State Hospitals for the Insane. June Findley, 
Mod. Hosp., Oct., 1918. 

The Management of the Dietary Department of the Hospital. Lulu Graves, Mod. Hosp., 
Nov., 1918. 

Food Waste in Hospitals. Charles S. Pitcher, Mod. Hosp., Dec, 1918. 

The Effect of the Past Year's Events on Dietetics. Lulu Graves, Mod., Hosp., Jan., 1919. 

The Dietitian in Social Work. Lucy H. Gillett, Mod. Hosp., Jan., 1919. 

A System of Dietary Follow-up Work. Beth B. Titus, Mod. Hosp., Jan., 1919. 

Relation of Field Dietetics to Social Service. Blanche M. Joseph, Mod. Hosp., Jan., 
1919. 

What a Dietitian Should Know to Aid Food Conservation. Eleanor Lee Wright, Amcr. 
Jour. Nursing, Oct., 1918. 

The Digestibility of Ripe Bananas. Emma Francis, Good Health, Dec, 1918. 

Pennsylvania Carries War to Egg Substitutes. Charles H. Lawall, Amer. Food Jour., 
Dec, 1918. 

Foods That Keep the Blood Alkaline. Emma Francis, Good Health, Jan., 1919. 

Dried Milk Powder. A Review of British E.\-perience. Amcr. Food Jour., Oct., 1918. 
Reprint from Pub. Health Reports, 33 (1918) No. 26. 

How My Family Saved Fats. Jessamine C. Williams, Amer. Cookery, Feb., 1919. 

183 



184 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [April 

Textiles and Clothing 

Linens on Firm Basis. Dry Goods Economist, Feb., 1919. 

Raw Cotton and Gray Goods. Dry Goods Economist, Jan., 1919. 

Dress Cottons. Dry Goods Economist, Jan., 1919. 

Cotton and Wool MLxed Yarns. William Davis, Textile World Jour., Jan., 1919. 

Weaves Used in Linen Fabrics. T. Woodhouse, Textile World Jour., Jan., 1919. 

The IMuseum's Place in Art Industry. M. D. C. Crawford, House Beautiful, Dec, 1918. 

Combinations and Contrasts of Materials. Anna L. Cobb, School Arts, Feb., 1919. 

Concerning Embroidery. Lc Costume Royal, Feb., 1919. 

Noteworthy Price Changes. Dry Goods Economist, Jan, 18, 1919. 

Market Conditions in Garment Trade — Prices becoming Lower. Dry Goods Economist, 
Feb. 1, 1919. 

How the Store can Interest High School Girls at Graduation Time. Dry Goods Econo- 
mist, Feb. 8, 1919. 

Buy Necessities Now. Dry Goods Economist, Feb. 1, 1919. 

How to Handle Color in Decoration. Costen Fitz Gibbons, House and Garden, Feb. 19, 
1919. 

Fabrics from France. Vogue, Feb. 1, 1919. 

Some "Made-in -America" American Fabrics. Decorative Furnisher, Feb. 19, 1919. 

Metropolitan Museum Holds Exposition of American-made Furnishings. Decorative 
Furnisher, Feb., 1919. 

Drapery Fabric. Decorative Furnislter, Feb., 1919. 

Made in America. H. S. Gillispie, Int. Studio, Jan., 1919. 

Objects of Art made by Prisoners of War. House and Garden, Jan., 1919. 

Handicraft and FtrRNisHiNGS 

Bernard Polissy, his Wisdom and his Wares. Gardner Teall, House and Garden, Feb., 
1919. 

Hiding the Unsightly FLxture. House and Garden, Feb., 1919. 

Reconstruction and the useful Arts. Henry W. Frohne, Country Life, Feb., 1919. 

Manual Training for Elementary Grades — Rush Seating. Edw. F. Worst, School Arts, 
Feb., 1919. 

The History of Wall Paper as a Decoration. Edw. U. Dunn, Decorative Furnisher, Feb., 
1919. 

Gothic and Tudor Furniture. Walter A. Dyer, Country Life, Feb., 1919. 

The Colonial Idea in Modern Furniture. Margaret Meade, Touchstone, Feb., 1919. 

Colonial .Antiques of Distinction. House and Garden, Feb., 1919. 

"The Styles of Charles II, William and Mary, and Queen Anne." Art World and Arts 
and Decoration, Jan., 1919. 

The French Periods and Their Applicadon to the Decoration of .American Homes. 
Hcittex, Art World and Arts and Decoration, Jan., 1918. 

The Versatility of Screens. Nancy Ashton, House and Garden, Feb., 1919. 

Doors and Shutters of the Colonial Period. H. D. Eberlein, House and Garden, Feb., 
1919. 

The Panelings at a Glance, House and Garden, Feb., 1919. 

The Use of Wall Board in Construction. Florence B. Ellis, School Arts, Feb., 1919. 



NEWS FROM THE FIELD 

The Meeting of the American Home Economics Association, held in Chicago 
in connection with the Department of Superintendence, N. E. A., February 28-March 1, 
1919, was well attended, with from 200 to 250 present at each session, and 179 registra- 
tions filed. 

The program presented by the Program Committee, Mrs. Henrietta Calvin, chairman, 
covered on the first day several of the main topics that are of especial immediate interest- 
child welfare, thrift, .\mericanization, social rehabilitation. The morning session was pre- 
sided over by Miss Jenny Snow, Supervisor of Household .\rts, Chicago. The opening 
address by the president, Miss WTiite, outlined the opportunities that are before the home 
economics workers today, and pointed out the way in which those opportunities should be 
used. The address made each one who heard it feel her individual responsibility, and in- 
spired each one to assume her share of the burden of work. Mrs. Norton, the editor of the 
Journal, who is for a time with the Sa\Tngs Division of the Treasury Department helping 
with its Thrift Campaign, presented the cause of Education in InteUigent Spending. Miss 
Sally Lucas Jean, Director of Field Work, Child Health Organization, New York City, told 
of the waj-s in which that organization is improving the health of the children in New York, 
and of the practical applications they are making of the teachings of the domestic science 
teacher. Her speech was full of "human interest." 

Dean Talbot of the University of Chicago presided at the afternoon session. The first 
address was by Miss Breckinridge, who showed some ways in which we may learn from the 
foreigners quite as much as we can teach them, and who plead for right standards of living, 
rather than .\merican standards. Miss Winslow showed how home economics workers 
should be trained for effective social work, and what kind of positions are open to them. 
Miss Ethelwyn Miller of Iowa State College discussed some of the problems of home eco- 
nomics education. Both papers were discussed. 

The general topic for Saturday morning was "Wanted — A Program for the Advance- 
ment of Home Economics Education." Miss Snow presented so effectively her plea for 
changes in the elementary program, and the dififtculties in carrying these out, that the Asso- 
ciation passed a resolution asking the N. E. A to put her on their general program at their 
annual meeting, to give the same address. Miss Carlotta Greer of the East Technical High 
School, Cleveland, Ohio, presented some high school problems, and Miss Grace Scherraer- 
hom, Director of Cooking, Department of Education, New York City, outlined the school 
lunch work in New York, and its possibilities. Mr. George B. Masslich, Principal of the 
Wells School, Chicago, gave a vivid account of some experiments in that school on a penny 
portion lunch, and on a school savings bank. Dr. Foght, of the Bureau of Education, Wash- 
ington, who was not able to be present on Friday as announced, made an address on Educa- 
tion of Women for Rural Life. 

The afternoon session dealt with Relationships. Those between the Smith-Hughes 
State Supervisor and the City Super\'isor were shown by Mrs. Martha French, State Super- 
sisor of Home Economics for Michigan; those between the Urban Extension Worker and 
the City School Supervisor by Miss Gertrude Van Hoesen of the OfEce of Extension Work, 
North and West, Department of .Agriculture; and the relation between Home Economics 
and Public Health by Miss Emma Wardall, University of Illinois. Through the discussion 
of papers both morning and afternoon, an opportunity was given for the audience to become 

185 



186 



THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS 



[April 



acquainted with many of the well known leaders in home economics who were not on the 
formal program. 

The meetings were distinguished by their breadth of interest. Great appreciation was 
expressed for the addresses given, and the whole planning of the program. Two meetings 
of the Council were held. 

The Association was entertained at tea on Friday afternoon by the EUa Flagg Young Club 
at the rooms of the Chicago Woman's Club. On Friday evening, through the courtesy of 
Dr. Blunt, the .\ssociation met for dinner at the College Club. 



Omicron Nu News. Alpha. This year 
we have found it an excellent plan to have a 
combination of social, literary, and business 
meetings every two weeks. We listen to 
the reading of a good article or short story 
and discuss society matters. This brings 
us in closer touch with each other and helps 
to keep up a strong interest in the aims and 
purposes of Omicron Nu. 

On February twelfth we initiated eight 
new members, — six juniors, one senior, and 
one faculty member. 

Epsilon. When the United War Fund 
Campaign was in progress, Epsilon girls 
subscribed three-fourths of the amount of 
money in their treasury, about $10. 

During the influenza epidemic, the girls 
were busy in the emergency hospitals. 
While the home economics faculty and girls 
did much of the work, they were aided by 
other university women. 

Gamma. In the main hall of the home 
economics building there has been placed a 
glass case, seven feet by four. Across the 
back is hung a large banner in the fraternity 
colors. Standing upright in the center is a 
gilded cardboard representation of our 



badge. Open copies of the constitution are 
also in the case, together with our ribbons. 

Gamma chapter believes that this display 
will make underclass girls more familiar 
with the standards, aims, and purposes of 
Omicron Nu. 

Beta. According to custom, a tea for the 
purpose of acquainting home economics 
freshmen with Omicron Nu was held at the 
Practice House, the faculty and active mem- 
bers acting as hostesses. 

Our work for the year in Beta chapter has 
been divided into three phases: educational, 
social, and financial. We are endeavoring 
to famiUarize ourselves with home eco- 
nomics and its many opportunities. At our 
meetings each member responds to roll call 
with a current event concerning home eco- 
nomics. In addition, each member is re- 
sponsible for a report on some particular 
magazine of interest and importance to 
home economics. 

There is now under discussion a plan for 
adopting one or more Belgian or French 
orphan babies. Our finance committee has 
already purchased a Liberty Bond and War 
Savings Stamps. Funds have been ob- 
tained by a series of sales of popcorn, ice 
cream, and cocoa. 



Vol. XI. No. 5 May, 1919 

THE 

Journal of Home Economics 

For those interested in Homemaking, Institution Management, 
and Educational Work in Home Economics 

Mrs. Auce P. Norton, EJUor Ketdrah E. Baldwin, Business Editor 

Editorial Board 
Mrs. Mary H. Abel C. F, Langworthy Etbelwy-n Miller Ruth \ 

Ex-OJficio Members — Edna N. White, President American Home Economics Association 
Elsie Leonard, Chairman Institution Economics Section 
Katherine Bldnt, Chairman Science Section 
Acnes E. Harris, Chairman Extension Education Section 
Grace Denny, Chairman Textile Section 

Collaborators—The Officers, Members of the Council, and Advisors 



CONTENTS 

Education for the Americanization of the Foreign Family ... .9. P. Breckinridge 187 

The .\ciDirY of Various Syrups Used in Cookery Amy L. Daniels and Esther H. Ileisig 193 

Changes in Food Value of Vegetables Due to Cooking Minna C. Denton 200 

TitE Beginnings OF A Penny Portion Lunch George B. Afassliih 210 

.Annexing Mulberky Bend to the U. S. .\ 213 

For the Homemaker 

The Cave of Precious Things Alice Wangmheim 215 

The Smss Wash Kitchen Ellen Howard Wilson 220 

The Chatfield Laundry — .\fter Six Years Maty L. Bull 222 

Editorial 225 

The Question Box 227 

Books and Literature 229 

News from the Field 231 

The Twelfth .\nnual Meeting, A. H. F,. A 234 



The Journal of Home Economics is published monthly by the American Home Economics Association, 

$2.00 A YEAR. FOREIGN $2.35. CANADIAN $2.20. SINGLE COPIES 25 CENTS 

HOW TO REMIT. Remittances should be sent by Check, Express Order or Postal Money Order, payable to the 
American Home Economics .Association, Currency, unless mailed in a registered letter, is at the sender's risk, 

NOTICE, When p.-iyment is made by check no receipt will be sent unless requested. 

CHANGE I.N ADDRESS. Notice of change in address should be sent Two Weeks before the date of issue on which 
the change is to take effect. The subscriber's Old Address should be clearly indicated in addition to the New Address, 

.\MERICAN HOME ECONOMICS ASSOCIATION 1211 Cathedral St., Baltimore, Md. 

The JouR-VAt of Home Economics is on sale at John Wanamaker's, Philadelphia; The Old Comer Book Store, Boston; 

A. C, McClurg's, Chicago; Baltimore News Company, Baltimore; Woodward and Lotlirop, Washington 



JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS— ADVERTISEMENTS 



4 i 



Better Bakingl 



A well-worn phrase! But when trans- 
lated into its true meaning— "Better 
Living! " — its interest always remains fresh 
and vital. For the struggle toward a higher 
standard of living concerns everybody. 

Foremost in the march of progress are 
the domestic science teachers and up-to- 
date women who adopt scientific and eco- 
nomical methods in their work. Thanks to 
their cordial reception and endorsement of 
Ryzon, the Perfect Baking Powder, we 
have been enabled to introduce it into 
thousands of American homes. 

The "better baking" which results from 
the accurate use of Ryzon with the level 
measurement recipes in the Ryzon Baking 
Book is helping establish "better living" 
in the fullest sense of the words. 



Ryzon is 4Cc a pound. The new Ryzon Baking 
Book {original price $1.00), containing 2 50 prac- 
tical recipes, many of conser-uation 'value and 
others easily adapted to present day needs, ■will be 
mailed, postpaid, upon receipt of 30c in stamps or 
coin, except in Canada. A pound tin of Ryzon 
and a copy of Ryzon Baking Book 'will he sent 
free, postpaid, to any domestic science teacher ivho 
■-.vntts us on school stationery, gin.'ingojJiciat position. 

GENERAL CHEMICAL Ca 

FOOD DEPARTMENT 
NEW YORK 



Get the habit of doing things right. Th,s will mean: Greater production, 
waste increased earnings. Work for good times all the time. 

U. S. DEPT. OF LABOR 
Wm. B. Wilson. Secretary 




In writing advertisers, please mention Journal of Home Economics 



THE 

Journal of Home Economics 

Vol. XI MAY, 1919 No. 5 

EDUCATION FOR THE AMERICANIZATION OF THE 
FOREIGN FAMILY^ 

S. p. BRECKINRIDGE 

Chief, Division of Adjustment of Homes a>id Family Life, Study of Methods of Americanization, 

Carnegie Corporation 

Assistant Professor, Household Administration, The University of Chicago 

I will attempt today no definition of Americanization but instead 
will state several elements in the process of adjustment, in which for 
many years I have been interested. 

An adequate economic level must first be secured by the efforts of the 
members of the family group, or by those so related to the members of the 
group that it may be enjoyed without violation of self-respect or impair- 
ment of the spirit of independence. 

There must exist also the opportunity to experience and utilize the 
spiritual and cultural values that lie in the national and family Hfe by 
cherishing the rich heritage of a long struggle for national independ- 
ence, and by enjoying the discipline and control or obedience and 
direction that should be found in the relation of parent and child. 

Relations to the new community of which the family has become a 
part must be so created that there may be reciprocal understanding and 
respect, that common activities may be developed, and that the com- 
mon responsibility for the New America that is to play a noble part in 
the New World Order may be realized. 

' Abstract of a paper presented at the meeting of the ."Vmcrican Home Economics Asso- 
ciation in connection with the Division of Superintendence, N. E. A., Chicago, February, 1919. 

187 



188 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [May 

Clearly, to none of us does Americanization mean persuading families 
of other national origin to do what Americans have done, or what foreign 
groups have been encouraged in the past to think not inconsistent with 
American standards. The practices of the past, we now hope forever 
dead, have made us blush with shame as we recall them. There has 
been the brutal lack of hospitality with which we have allowed 
strangers to enter our gates. We have taken them in, to be sure, and 
that is better than to have shut them out; but the conditions result- 
ing from our failure to prepare for their arrival fill the reports of our 
Immigrants' Protective League, of our Immigration Commission, and 
of other organizations concerned with the care of the distressed and 
needy in our cities. There has been the inadequate wage; the oppor- 
tunity for only unskilled gang labor; the crowded home; the assump- 
tion, since we enacted our child labor laws, that those mothers whose 
children were too young to earn would supplement the father's earn- 
ings by taking in lodgers, thus overloading the already heavily burdened 
mother and supplying to the unattached man conditions of living most 
inadequate to his varied needs and most dangerous to the privacy of 
the family group. There has been the lack of any adequate provision 
for the unattended girl whose labor is being coined into goods or trans- 
formed into services we enjoy. There has been the assumption that 
because they were different they were inferior, and there has been a 
willingness to lose the rich contributions they might make. 

Many illustrations of these wastes could be given. One that comes 
home to me often is the failure to preserve some of the charm and beauty 
of the names. When Dyonisius and Aestesthaea become CharUe and 
NelUe, they are more at home as they play in the ugly street in front of 
the Parthenon barber shop over which their sordid tenement is located; 
but they are less likely to suggest to us the possibility that they may 
bring us from that land, from which our great heritage of beauty has come, 
some echo of the olden art and of the sparkle of sea and sky and noble 
human form. Casimira and Janina, too, suggest the claims of a race 
peculiarly gifted and leave us uncomfortable in their poverty and distress, 
while Cassie and Jennie are common Httle foreign things that matter 
Httle after all. 

When I look at the problem of Americanization, it seems to me that it 
is a problem of groups of persons, none of whom are American in the 
sense that we and the soil have been long together. Nous marchons, 
tons, nec'est-pas? "We are pilgrims and we are strangers," we cannot 



1919] AMERICANIZATION OF THE FOREIGN FAMILY 189 

tarry too long. But some have come sooner and some have come later; 
and all, with the exception of the colored people and the Spanish speak- 
ing Americans of the Southwest, have a common memory of having 
come deliberately, come either from something worse or to something 
better. None of us "just growed" — at least this was true not very far 
back. We have been self-selected out of all the nations of the earth. 
We have not always been invited, nor can we give ourselves the com- 
fortable assurance that we "were just as welcome as if we had been." 
We have come for different reasons; we have not those in common; we 
have come at different seasons; but we have been self-determining to 
this extent, that we have gone from where we were into a far country. 

The world has suffered a catastrophic experience. There has been a 
sense of peril common to us with all the peoples of the world, we beheve. 
The lines have been drawn between a doctrine of control from without, 
perhaps by force, and that of development from within, self-determi- 
nation of the peoples or of the individuals. We have had a violent shak- 
ing down into our places; and, as the whirlwind passes, we open our 
eyes to see where we are, whither we would go, and how we can go 
together. It is because this is a strategic moment, when what we were 
all doing before can be scrutinized and the way ahead surveyed alike 
for us all, that I am interested in the problem. 

Americanization of the home means for me, then, the estabUshment 
of the good home in the good neighborhood, in the well-ordered city, or 
in the efficiently organized rural community, under a seK-directing 
state government which will see a new significance in the consent of the 
governed. 

What of the home in this effort at coordination! There are the mother 
and children; older children, boys and girls of elementary school age, 
children under school age, and infants; there is the husband and father; 
and often there are the aged parents, the relatives who have been taken 
in, and the lodgers. 

What is the approach to the task of adjustment? From the nature 
of the task must be deduced the kind of training needed by those under- 
taking it. Several approaches to the question are possible. There is, first, 
the body of information that can be obtained from persons who have been 
in the situation, who have come through the experience and can formulate 
views based upon their own experiences and those under their immediate 
observation. Then there are those who come into immediate contact 
with the various groups for the purpose of rendering services of one kind 



190 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [May 

or another. There is, too, the question of the development of various 
agencies upon which the famiUes depend for certain forms of service, 
into which no personal or intimate feature enters. I have in mind now 
the retail shops, the local grocery, or the department store. 

For the independent, self-sustaining family, the important agents of 
Americanization would be the press, the stage, the neighborhood center, 
the governmental agencies, the various administrative divisions like the 
factory inspection, building and health departments, the courts, and, of 
course, most of all the school. The school furnishes our richest oppor- 
tunity in the direction of classes for children, in the organization of 
classes for women in the school or in the home, and in the organization 
of activities for women in the neighborhood center. For the family 
fallen into distress, there is the ministry of the case-work agency, of 
the visiting housekeeper, or of the usual charity or protective visitor. 
For the family in which there is sickness there is the opportunity for 
medical and nursing care. 

Our special concern is, of course, with the teacher of home economics 
in the school, with the extension worker, with the teacher of adult 
classes of women, and with the visiting housekeeper. 

What is our plan of work? What are our points of contact? 

I shall consider these in the order in which we have attempted to 
enter the field: the questions of diet, of clothing, of hygienic practices, 
of family discipline, of special family festivals, of thrift. 

The underlying and special value of our work should first be noticed. 
We are supposed to appreciate the value of the family as a social insti- 
tution. We should be the last then to be a party to the introduction of 
any revolutionary influence into family life. 

The first essential is that we cherish the relation between parent and 
children. We must recognize that the effort to educate the parents 
through the children may be an additional source of confusion in the 
already difficult problem. It is for the parents to go with their chil- 
dren. We should never make use of a device that would weaken this 
relationship until we have tried every other conceivable plan. 

A second essential is an appreciation of the difficulties under which 
the mother labors, and some reasonable estimate of her services to the 
home. A third is an understanding of the rights of children to adult 
help of a parental kind. These are so obvious that one may wonder why 
I take time to review them. But the immigrant parents do not find that 
they are very obvious to the American community. The pubhc school 



1919] AMERICANIZATION OF THE FOREIGN FAMILY 191 

means to many foreign parents just the upsetting of the relationship, 
while the foreign speaking parochial school may keep the standard of 
filial respect and parental authority. 

We find the visiting housekeeper, the home economics teacher of the 
public school class, the case-worker, reporting that the mothers are lazy, 
indiiJerent, shiftless. And as for the treatment of families from which 
the mother has been removed, the burdens sometimes laid, with the con- 
sent of persons supposedly trained in home economics, on the thirteen- 
year-old girl or even the twelve-year-old boy are incredible to the student 
coming at the problem from without. 

And, then, there must be large patience that comes from apply- 
ing to women of any group the experiences with women of other groups. 
The knowledge that the birth-rate goes up as physical well-being and the 
wage level go down should make a visitor impatient with our wage- 
scale, not with the mother, when the annual baby appears. The knowl- 
edge that pregnancy, confinements, infancies, are to be expected among 
all poor will remove that exasperation we feel in dealing with the large 
and increasing families in a foreign neighborhood. 

In regard to the matter of giving instruction to foreign women, 
we have the experience of the Immigrants' Protective League in the or- 
ganization of classes of adult women, who have been often certain that 
what they got was not worth their time and strength. Some think the 
"American diet" is pies and cakes anyhow; and if pastry is the subject 
of one lesson, they may not return for the next. Here is the place 
where it is necessary to have a knowledge of their practices in the 
old country together with a knowledge of their practices here. Often , 
evidently, they make a very radical change, and not for the better. 
We may think that what they do is their olden habit, when it may be 
new and bad, and often we give them no constructive help toward what 
is better. My own impression is that we suffer from at least two great 
lacks, — not knowing what they would be prepared to accept and not 
appreciating the difficulties under which they labor. 

Clothing is another field in which wc are confronted with confusing 
results of their American experience. 

The neglect of the father is one great weakness in many of our 
attempts. There will be lines drawn within which the mother has 
responsibiUty even if the father has ultimate authority. To find that 
line and help her within it, while perhaps working with him to widen 
the area, is our task. This is of especial importance if we have in mind 
the possibilities of the cooperative movement in retail distribution. 



192 THE JOUENAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [May 

With these and many other evidences of our inadequate preparations 
for meeting these needs, I drew up the slight bibliography and the brief 
outline of a course noted in the February Journal for the consideration 
of the heads of departments in home economics in state universities. 

But I should like to put the question, is what we are seeking the Amer- 
icanization of these groups? Is it not the new-Americanizing of us all? 

Take the effect on the careful foreign mother of our lack of protection 
for young girls and the consequent lowering of standards of manners in 
pubHc places. The impression made on a Bulgarian young woman by 
our young women in pubHc places would indicate that we have not 
considered this. This is a real difficulty with the Italian mother. At 
the University the Dean of Women can urge that large measure of 
social freedom with which intellectual freedom alone can be expected; 
but in the University, on the whole, conditions are safe; everyone knows 
that the student who mistakes freedom for license will be removed. But 
the Italian mother has no assurance that the places in which her 
daughter either works or plays will be kept safe. 

And, then, there is the remodelling of the conditions into which these 
strangers are allowed to come, the question of housing and water supply 
in the city, of play and school and neighborhood in the small town and 
in the country. We should have things to say as to the value of the 
woman's time and strength. To the architect generally her time has so 
little value that he feels no pressure to put his mind upon the problem 
of lessening her task. We should consider also the interesting question 
of the source of supply from which the workers are to be drawn. The 
question of obtaining persons from the various national groups to pre- 
pare for this form of service is one worthy of consideration. The use 
of the skilled foreign language worker seems to give results far richer 
than the use of the interpreter or the use of the children and the 
neighbor. 

The Immigrants' Protective League and the Y. W. C. A. have been 
able in general to obtain foreign-speaking visitors who have become 
most skilled social workers. But we face, of course, the problem of the 
wide-spread poverty among these groups. Some agencies have been 
willing to take workers of a grade lower than would be considered 
among American visitors; but if we are going to get their best intelli- 
gence we must make provision in the way of scholarships for their 
thorough educational equipment. 



1919] ACIDITY OF VARIOUS SYRUPS 193 

THE ACIDITY OF VARIOUS SYRUPS USED IN COOKERY 

AMY L. DANIELS AND ESTHER H. HEISIG 
From the Department of Home Economics, University of Wisconsin 

The use of various sweetening syrups in cookery during the recent 
sugar shortage has led to an inquiry concerning the amount of sodium 
bicarbonate (cooking soda) neccessary to neutralize the acid contained 
in them, for in many of the batter and dough mixtures advantage may 
be taken of the carbon dioxide formed as a result of combining certain 
of the syrups with soda to decrease or eliminate the baking powder or 
other leavening agent necessary to lighten the product. 

In such mixtures there should not be an excess of soda, for, besides 
the unpleasant taste, untoward results may follow the use of too much 
alkali. Recent work concerning the effect of alkali on certain of the 
vitamines, more particularly the antiscorbutic, has shown that some of 
these are extremely sensitive to dilute alkalies at cooking temperatures, 
and, although we do not depend upon such foods as breads, cakes, and 
puddings for our supply of the food accessories, nevertheless, in certain 
instances these foods may furnish significant amounts, especially in 
diets containing little fruits and vegetables. The excess of alkali in 
corn bread has been suggested by Sullivan and VoegtUn* as the explana- 
tion of the fact that chickens fed cornbread made of cornmeal, milk, 
and baking soda developed polyneuritis, while those given cornmeal, 
milk, and sodium chloride remained in good condition. Investiga- 
tions by Harden and Zilva' have shown that the potency of the anti- 
scorbutic material in orange juice is greatly lessened by treatment with 
dilute alkalies. Furthermore, the wisdom of neutralizing the acid of 
the gastric juice by an excess of alkali in the food may be questioned, 
especially in cases of hypoacidity, where digestion is delayed and the 
antiseptic efficiency of the gastric juice greatly lessened. 

An examination of recipes in a number of present-day cook books 
indicates that there is considerable variation in the amount of cooking 
soda used with a given quantity of molasses, honey, or other syrups. 
For example, in one very popular cook book directions are given for 
using one-half to three teaspoonfuls of soda in certain mixtures calling 
for one cup of molasses when this is the only source of acid. With sour 

' Sullivan and Vocgtlin: Proceedings Soc. Biol. Chem., Jour. Biol. Chan., 24 (1916), p. xvi. 
' Harden and Zilva: The Lancet, September, 1918. 



194 



THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS 



[May 



niilk and molasses the amount of soda is necessarily increased, but 
here also there seems to be no standard proportion, one recipe calling 
for one and three-fourths teaspoonfuls of soda with one cup of sour 
milk and one cup of molasses, while another uses the same amount of 
soda with one-half cup of sour milk and one cup of molasses. Similarly, 
the amount used with honey in recipes varies, directions calling for 
one-half to one and one-half teaspoonfuls of soda with one cup of honey. 
The following inconsistencies were noted in some much used sources. 



TABLE 1 
RcJallm of soda to molasses in much used recipes 



Spice cookies 

Molasses bars . . . . 

Ginger snaps 

Gingerbread 

Gingerbread 

Gingerbread 

Cake 

Molasses cookies. 



MOIASSES 


SOUR MILK 


SODA 


cups 


cups 


Isp. 







1 


2 





1 







1 







n 






"2 


If 

11 
n 







3 



Spice 
Spice 
Spice 
Spice 
Spice 
Spice 
Spice 
Spice 



TABLE 2 
Relation of soda to honey in much used recipes 



Fruit cake. . . 
Drop cookies 

Cookies 

Soft cake. . . . 
Nut cake. . . . 
Butter cake. , 
Honey cake . . 



HONEY 


SOUR MILK 


SODA 


cups 


cups 


Isp. 


2 





3 


I 
1 
1 





\ 


1 
1 
1 


2 





H 


1 





J to 1 


IJ 





1^ 



FLAVORING 



Spice and fruit 

Spice 

Spice 

Spice 

Spice and fruit 

Spice and fruit 

Spice 



That an excess of soda has been used in many of these recipes is dem- 
onstrated by, the fact that water extracts of the products give alkaline 
reactions. In some cases this excess has not been apparent because the 
spices have quite masked the taste of the soda, while in others we have 
not learned to discriminate between the taste of soda and that of 
less famihar substances, for example honey, when these are used in 
combination. 



1919] ACIDITY OF VARIOUS SYRUPS 195 

The different proportions of cooking soda and molasses used in the 
various recipes may be due to several factors. Many of the recipes have 
been handed down from preceding generations when the molasses, in 
all probability, contained larger proportions of acid. 

The methods employed in the preparation of molasses were formerly 
quite different from those in vogue today. After the cane juice had 
been clarified with milk of lime, it was boiled in open kettles until the 
sugar began to crystalize, and was then poured into hogsheads having 
fine perforations in the bottom, which permitted the molasses to sep- 
arate slowly from the crystals. This gradual filtration caused aeration 
of the syrup and offered conditions conducive to fermentation and 
increased acidity. The present method of treating the cane juice, 
after the addition of lime, is to boil it in large vacuum pans and separate 
the crystals from the syrup in centrifugal machines. By this means, 
the possibility of moisture absorption and the subsequent production of 
acid as the result of bacterial action is practically eliminated. 

Not only has the character of the molasses been modified, but the 
carbonate used in cooking with the molasses has also been changed. 
Formerly potassium bicarbonate or saleratus was the agent employed 
to neutralize the acid, whereas today sodium bicarbonate is used almost 
exclusively. With sodium bicarbonate a larger amount of acid is re- 
quired to neutralize a given quantity. The following equations, indi- 
cating the reactions which take place when potassium bicarbonate and 
sodium bicarbonate are mixed with cream of tartar in the presence of 
water, illustrate the point in question. 

HKCO3 + HKC4H4O6 -» K2C4H40e + H2O -I- CO2 
Mol.wt. 100 188 226 18 44 

NallCOj + HKC4H406-> NaKCiHjOe + H2O + CO2 
Mol.wt. 84 188 210 18 44 

One hundred parts of potassium bicarbonate are required to neutralize 
one hundred and eighty-eight parts of cream of tartar, whereas only 
eighty-four parts of sodium bicarbonate are needed to neutralize the 
same amount of cream of tartar. Since in the American household 
it is customary to measure rather than weigh, it is obvious 
that housekeepers who are substituting one teaspoonful of sodium 
bicarbonate for one teaspoonful of potassium bicarbonate are using 
considerably more of the alkaline material. Therefore, if no allow- 



196 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [May 

ance is made for the difference in the two salts, sodium bicarbonate 
and potassium bicarbonate, an excess of the former will be present. 
However, even if the amounts of soda called for in many of the recipes 
were translated into terms of saleratus, it is probable that an excess of 
alkali would be present. 

The acid reaction of molasses is due to the presence of small amounts 
of inorganic acids, namely, glycolic, oxalic, malic, succinic, and tannic, 
which remain after the lime is added in the process of purification of 
the cane juice.^ The amount of acid is comparatively little, since an 
excess would result in a smaller yield of sucrose through the hydrolytic 
action of the acid. It is probable, however, that the acid content of 
different brands of molasses varies slightly, depending somewhat upon 
the methods of treatment during the purification processes and sub- 
sequent handling. 

Chemical analyses of honey show that its acidity is due also to organic 
acids, both volatile and non-volatile. More than half of the former 
group consists of formic acid, the remainder being made up of valeric, 
butyric, caproic, and capric acids.^ The non-volatile acids are lactic, 
malic, succinic, and oxalic, of which lactic forms the larger part. Acetic 
acid is present only when honey ferments. 

In contrast with the more highly flavored products which contain 
molasses and honey are those in which corn syrup is used. These in 
general call for baking powder when a leavening agent is desired. But 
since corn syrup contains an appreciable amount of acid, the possibility 
of taking advantage of this in various forms of cookery suggests itself. 

In order to know how much sodium bicarbonate should be used 
with given amounts of molasses, honey, or corn syrup, the acidity of a 
number of samples of each was determined, for, although it was antici- 
pated that there would be some variation in the acid content of the dif- 
ferent brands, in the case of molasses, or of kinds from different sources 
in the case of honey, it was beheved that these would be so slight that 
some general proportions might be formulated which would meet the 
needs of the housewife. In the investigation three different grades of 
molasses were tested: (1) an example^ of the better grade, of light color 
and exceedmgly mild flavor; (2) one" almost black, with a much stronger 

' Gcerlings, H. C. P.: Cane Sugar and its Manufacture. Manchester, 1909. 
< Root, A. L., and E. R.; The A.B.C. and X.Y.Z. of Bee Culture, Ohio, 1917. 
' "Lucie" molasses. 
" "Brer Rabbit" molasses. 



1919] ACIDITY OF VARIOUS SYRUPS 197 

flavor; (3) a representative^ of the poorest grade which could be found 
in the local retail stores. This was much thicker and darker than either 
of the others and had a strong bitter flavor. 

Weighed portions of each were dissolved in boiled distilled water and 
decolorized by means of animal charcoal, which had been pre\dously 
boiled with dilute hydrochloric acid to remove the inorganic salts, and 
subsequently washed with distilled water until all trace of acid had been 
removed. The charcoal was removed by filtration and washed until 
the filtrate was no longer acid to litmus. Filtrate and washings were 
combined, made up to mark, and the acidity of an aliquot portion de- 
termined b}^ means of N/10 sodium hydroxide, phenolphthalein being 
used as the indicator. Duplicate determinations were made in all 
cases. 

The honey and corn syrup were similarly prepared, excepting that in 
these it was not necessary to use charcoal, since the solutions were 
almost colorless. Four varieties of strained honey were tested, three 
purchased from local stores — one in Wisconsin and two in Iowa — and 
one from the University Apiary. Only one brand of corn syrup was 
tested since the results on this indicated that the amount of acid was 
too little to be of material value in cookery processes. 

The amount of cooking soda necessary to neutralize the acid in one 
cup (8 ounces) of each of the syrups was estimated from the per 
cent of acid in the given sample, the weight of one teaspoonful 
of soda being taken as 4.4 grams. Since we were aiming to meet the 
conditions of the housewife, the soda was measured and weighed as it 
was taken from the box in which it was purchased, no attempt being 
made to dry it to constant weight or determine its purity, for previous 
work in this laboratory has shown that there is but little variation in 
the alkahnity of different brands of soda, and that the amount of dete- 
rioration produced by standing under ordinary conditions is so slight as 
to be negligible. The results of the investigation are given in tables 
3 and 4. 

It will be noted that there is a slight variation in the acidity of the 
different brands of molasses tested, the smallest amount, 0.50 per cent 
being present in the "Brer Rabbit," and the largest amount, 0.64 per 
cent, in the " Ginger-cake" brand. The "Lucie" which had the mildest 
flavor contained 0.52 per cent. Obviously, the amount of cooking soda 

' "Ginger-cake" molasses. 



198 



THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS 



[May 



which should be used with these molasses varies shghtly, but, in order 
that there may be no excess of alkali in products containing molasses, 
it would seem best to meet the requirements of the least acid, since it is 

TABLE 3 
Acidity of molasses and amount of cooking soda necessary to neutralize one cup* 



Lucie. 



Brer Rabbit. 



Gingercake. 



EXPERI- 
MENT 
Nl'UBER 



12.28 
11.38 



9.27 
9.90 



13.14 
11.04 



18.1 
16.6 



12.8 
13.8 



22.6 
19.9 



per cent 

0.53 
0.52 

0.50 
0.50 

0.62 
0.64 



3.8 
3.7 

3.6 
3.6 

4.5 
4.6 



'sp.1 

i 



* 8 ounces. 

t Approximately. 

TABLE 4 
Acidity of honey and corn syrup and amount of cooking soda necessary to neutralize one cup 



MATERIAI. 


EXPERI- 
NUMBER 


SPECIFIC 
GRAVITY 


AMODNI 


N/IO 
NaOH 


ACIDITY AS 

HCl 


SODA TO 
WITH 


BE USED 

1 cut 








grams 


cc. 


per cent 


grams 


tsP.' 


Honey U. of W. .\piary. 


1 

2 


1.46 1 


10 
20 


1.9 
3.7 


0.06 
0.06 


0.43 
0.43 


10 


Com. W 


1 
2 


1.38 1 


13.20 
11.85 


2.8 
2.5 


0.074 
0,076 


0.53 
0.53 


1 




- 


Com. I 


1 
2 


1.40 { 


15.23 
12.31 


3.6 
2.8 


0.08 
0.08 


0.59 
0.59 


i 




i 


Com. I 


1 
2 


-{ 


12.54 
11.49 


1.7 

1.5 


0.053 
0.052 


0.35 
0.34 


IV 




I'i 




1 


1.38 


19.8 


1.1 


0.019 


0.11 









* Approximately, 
t Crystallized. 

not practical to use a different proportion for each brand. Three-fourths 
of a teaspoonful of soda seems an average amount to use with one cup of 
molasses. This is somewhat less than that required for the "Ginger- 
cake", but the most convenient measurement which will not lead to an 



1919] ACIDITY OF VARIOUS SYTiUPS 199 

excess, for it is believed that the samples of molasses tested are represen- 
tative of those in general use. 

There was a slight variation in the acidity of the samples of honey 
tested; but in all cases the per cent of acid (from 0.05 to 0.08) was con- 
siderably lower than was anticipated, for the largest amount of soda 
required to neutralize one cupful of any of the samples was ^ of a tea- 
spoonful. These results are not in accord with those reported by Hunt 
and Atwater^ who state that the allowance of soda for one cup very 
generally ranges from i to ^ teaspoonful. The analysis of samples 
of American and Hawaiian honey given by Leach' indicate that there 
is a very great difference in the acid content of honeys, even from the 
same source. Alfalfa honey may contain from 0.04 to 0.17 per cent 
acid (as formic), whereas buckwheat may contain as high as 0.22 per 
cent of acid. In view of these wide variations it is somewhat difficult 
for the housewife to know how much soda to use in a given recipe. Cer- 
tainly she cannot depend upon any standard proportion, unless it be 
the minimum. Hunt and At water suggest that "unless the cook is 
famihar with her honey, she would do well to mix and bake a small 
sample of the dough before she decides on the amount of soda to put 
into the main portion." In view of our results we would suggest that if 
honey is to be used to any great extent in cookery, it would be well for 
the baker or housewife to purchase it in quantity and determine its 
acichty. For the occasional cake, however, the acidity may be quite 
disregarded and baking powder used when a quick leavening agent is 
desired. Cakes made with honey and baking powder were in every way 
satisfactory and were much lighter in color than those made with our 
honey and the smallest amount of soda recommended in the recipes. 
Even if the honey should be considerably more acid than that of any 
of our samples the excess would in no case interfere with the results. 

' Hunt, C. L., and Atwater, H. W.: U. S. Dept. of Agr., Farmer's Bulletin 653. 
' Leach, A. E.: Food Inspection and Analysis, New York, 1913, p. 635. 



200 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [May 

CHANGES IN FOOD VALUE OF VEGETABLES DUE TO 
COOKING* 

MINNA C. DENTON 

{Continued from the April number) 

in. PURPOSE OF THIS INVESTIGATION 

This work was undertaken with a view to determining how great are 
the variations in food value resulting from different methods of house- 
hold manipulation, in any given process of cooking. The process most 
frequently studied was that of boiling vegetables. The details consid- 
ered cover such points as tliose mentioned on page 3 of the introduction. 

IV. METHODS 

The metlaods which were used by the writer in cooking these vegetable 
samples are described in the tables given below. After cooking, the 
vegetable was groimd or mashed or thinly sliced into metal caps or on to 
glass plates, and dried at 30° to 80°C. in an oven, or warm air blast, 
or over a water bath. The amounts of vegetable cooked were ordinarily 
between 50 and 100 grams, or often much more. This amount was 
necessary in order that the process should have some resemblance to the 
ordinary household process; also, in order to secure an approach to 
homogeneity of samples. After drying, the samples were finely ground 
for burning in the bomb calorimeter. Often tliey were formed into pel- 
lets by hammering against a metal rod in a metal tube. This was done 
in order to prevent scattering when the first rush of oxygen enters the 
bomb; usually, however, this precaution was unnecessary. 

The control (uncooked vegetable) was always taken from the same lot 
as were those that were cooked. As individual specimens, even from a 
given lot, may often vary considerably among each other in water con- 
tent and consequently in percentage composition, the control was, 
whenever possible, a part of the same indi\'idual vegetable specimen. In 
cutting the samples used as controls (uncooked), pains was taken to 
secure strips ruiming lengtliwise through every region of bud or root- 
stock, so that proportionate amounts of corte.x, pith, fibro-vascular 
bundles, parenchjTna, or growing region, would be about the same in 
control as in other samples. Where it was necessar}-- to take transverse 

*A reprint of the full text of Miss Denton's thesis, including 14 pages of tabulated results 
of the e.xperiments, may be obtained from the Journal office for 25 cents. 



1919] CHANGES IN FOOD VALUE OF VEGETABLES 201 

sections, these were selected alternately from the various regions, so that 
each sample might contain representatives or every region. 

It is not practicable to give calorific values in terms of weight of 
cooked vegetables, since this weight varies enormously according to the 
details of manipulation, and varies, indeed, from moment to moment 
as the steaming vegetable cools and loses water. I have therefore cal- 
culated all values for cooked vegetables upon the basis of raw weight. 
For example, suppose that 100 grams of raw parsnips weigh 95 grams 
after cooking (at the moment of manipulation), which dry down to 20 
grams; and that this dried parsnip shows a caloric value of 4000 (gram- 
calories) per gram. Then the raw vegetables with a corresponding 
value should be assigned 20 per cent of 4000 calories, or 800 gram- 
calories per gram; which is 363 kilo-calories per pound. If the control, 
or uncooked parsnip, shows a value of 1000 gram-calories per gram of 
fresh vegetable (or 454 kilo-calories per pound), then it is evident that 
this parsnip has lost 20 per cent of its caloric value in the cooking 
process. 

DupUcate samples taken from the same vegetable specimen (or from 
the same lot if of very small size, as peas) should check within 2 or 3 
per cent at farthest. A closer check (0.5 per cent) is usual, but not 
always possible with raw vegetables, because of the lack of homogeneity 
of the material. When a high salt content (spinach, some beans) inter- 
feres with complete combustion in the calorimeter (by the fusing of salts 
so as to encase carbon parrides and protect them from combustion), 
the difficulty may sometimes be remedied by spreading the dried pow- 
dered sample over a piece of filter paper, whose dry weight and caloric 
value per gram are known, rolling the whole like a cigarette and be- 
stowing it in the capsule for combustion. Substracting the calories due 
to the filter paper, one has then left the calories due to tlie dried vege- 
table. Usually, however, if the linen thread (instead of tlie iron wire) 
be used for igniting, there is no difficulty. 

Furthermore, the calorie value of the total cooked sample plus the 
calorie value of the concentrated cooking water must be approximately 
equal to the calorie value of an xmcooked sample of the same size, as 
calculated from the control. This check was conducted in a number of 
instances (though by no means in case of all samples reported) by 
evaporating the cooking water to a few cc. of sirup, taking it up on 
a weighed piece of filter paper of known calorific value, dr^-ing and burn- 
ing tlie whole mass togetlier, or in fractions, as might be necessary. In 



202 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [May 

those cases where the amount of extract is too great to be concentrated 
into a volume convenient for such a test, it may be dissolved in a rela- 
tively large volume of water (e.g., 100 to 250 cc), mixed until thoroughly 
homogeneous, and divided into aliquot portions in any convenient 
manner. One of these portions is then concentrated, collected, dried, 
and burned as above. Any suspended particles must be allowed to 
settle, and then be filtered out of the whole sample before division into 
ahquots, finally to be dried and burned separately. 

Doubtless the question will suggest itself, why should so large a per- 
centage of these determinations have been made with carrots and pars- 
nips? The reasons were that their cheapness (price per pound) and the 
ease with which they are stored have put them into general use; that 
they are usually pared and cut before cooking, largely as a matter of con- 
venience to the cook; that their high sugar content makes them sensi- 
tive indicators upon which the effect of varying manipulations may be 
detected. 

Total salts were determined by the water-leaching method ;=^ ignition 
was in a muflBe furnace. 

V. DISCUSSIONS AND CONCLUSIONS 

1. The vegetables experimented on, when boiled until tender in ex- 
cess of water which is thrown away, lose from 15 to 60 per cent of their 
fuel value. It is a very simple matter to demonstrate these losses 
ocularly, by cooking pared parsnips, pared carrots, some varieties of 
peapods, cabbage, onions, etc., finely cut or even coarsely cut, in plenty 
of water, and then concentrating this water, after pouring off, to small 
bulk, when it takes the form of a molasses. 

The losses are, of course, less, proportionately, when there is less soluble 
matter to lose. Turnips, cabbage, cauliflower, young carrots, aspara- 
gus, onions, spinach, peas, string beans, lose less than do parsnips and 
mature carrots and Brussels sprouts. Apparently carrots have their 
carbohydrate more largely in soluble form than do parsnips, for their 
losses are proportionately heavier, under the same treatment, especially 
in those cases where their calorie values at all approach those of 
parsnips. 

2. The losses in salts in every case except one (one sample of 
Spinach) parallel the calorie losses, and usually rather closely. They are, 

'"Official Methods, Association Official Agricultural Chemists, Bureau of Chemistry, 

Bulletin 107. 



1919] CHANGES IN FOOD VALUE OF VEGET.\BLES 203 

as a rule, slightly greater than the calorie losses. The same thing was 
true of nitrogen losses, in those cases where such determination was made. 
It is, however, the more soluble rather than the difficultly soluble or 
insoluble carbohydrates and salts, which are the measure of available 
food; therefore the food losses exceed rather than run below the per- 
centage here stated. 

3. The "blanching" process as ordinarily used in home canning 
causes losses of 8 to 15 per cent in samples of peas, asparagus, spinach, 
Brussels sprouts, string beans; and 27 to 33 per cent in samples of 
parsnips and carrots, if vegetables are peeled and sliced. These peas 
were blanched for 6 minutes, the string beans and carrots for 5 
minutes. The peas might have received a somewhat shorter blanch (2 
to 4 minutes), which would reduce their loss somewhat, but not propor- 
tionately to the reduction in time of blanching, since the losses are rela- 
tively hea\der in the earliest moments of the extraction period. String 
beans, fresh prime stock, are often blanched even longer (3| to 6 minutes 
or more) under trade conditions. 

4. The losses in blanching might be somewhat decreased by the 
use of a salted water. In case of peas the loss decreases from 15 per 
cent in distilled water to 8 per cent in a 1.5 per cent salt solution; for 
string beans, from 15 per cent in distilled water to 13 per cent in 0.25 
per cent salt solution; or it may be 10 per cent loss on 20 minutes' 
boiHng in 0.4 per cent salt solution. Stronger solutions could well be 
used when short cooking is given. Here a slight increase in the strength 
of salt solution has made more difference in the amount extracted than 
has a fourfold increase in time. In case of longer boiling "until 
tender," the decreases in fairly comparable samples are: Parsnips, from 
31 per cent in tap water to 23 per cent in 0.7 per cent salt solution; 
white turnips, from 24 per cent to 2 per cent in 1.5 per cent salt 
solution. 

Boiled in a small amount of salted water, or in water which eventually 
boils down to a small amount, the losses are still smaller, not more than 
18 per cent loss, though they went through a 6 minutes' blanch before 
this long cooking period of several hours at a temperature very near 
the boiling point. A sample of peas, in which the salted water was 
entirely taken up, apparently shows less than 1 per cent loss, though 
they went through a 4 minutes' salt blanch before cooking. 

The difference in extractive power between distilled and tap water 
(Lake Michigan at Chicago) is e\ddent but not great enough to be of 
practical significance. 



204 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [May 

5. Cooking losses are, of course, still further decreased by cutting the 
vegetable into large instead of into small pieces, particularly so if the 
cut runs parallel with fibro-vascular bundles rather than across them. 

6. Steaming, if properly performed, results in losses so small as to 
be ordinarily quite devoid of significance; this may be the case, 
even when the temperature is so high and the process so greatly 
prolonged as to result in serious detriment to flavor, as is possible in 
high pressure cooking. However, this considerable period of steaming 
at higher temperatures than the boiling point is likely to extract a 
considerable amount of soluble material, when this is abundantly 
present. Again, if the arrangement is such that steam condenses and 
water washes down over the heated vegetable tissue, the losses may be 
as great as in any other possible method of treatment. This is true 
in steamers of the household t}'pe as well as in those of institutional 
t)-pe, as any one who may have seen the yellow water imder steaming 
squash or pumpkin can testify. 

7. It is ob\aous that extraction of soluble constituents will depend 
largely upon length of the period of cooking and upon relative propor- 
tions of water and vegetable, especially as the cooking process nears 
its end and the water boils away more or less rapidly according 
to the rate at which heat is applied. These two factors are widely 
variable and exceedingly uncertain, in ordinary household practice, as 
is also the relative surface exposed, when the vegetable is cut or pared. 
Add to this the varying degree of extraction possible with different 
vegetables, owing to the different proportions of readily soluble carbo- 
hydrate and salts which they contain, and it will be seen that there is 
no possible universal factor which can be applied, in dietary calculations, 
to show losses of fuel or other values of foods, incurred in cooking; or 
none which can lay claim to the slightest approximation to accuracy 
upon all occasions. 

Such statements as, "Boiling extracts three-fourths of the iron in 
spinach," or "one-fourth of the salts of potato" or "two-thirds of the 
sugar of carrots" may fit one instance precisely and yet be far from the 
truth in another. 

Naturally these generalizations do not apply to the "conservation" 
methods of cooking (steaming, baking, boiling in jackets, utilization of 
vegetable stocks as soups or sauces) where the loss is reduced to practi- 
cally nothing at all. One of the best of these economical methods is 
that in which the edible portion of the vegetable is cut fine and cooked 



1919] CHANGES IN FOOD VALUE OF VEGETABLES 205 

in a small amount of water or milk which is almost entirely absorbed, and 
which consequently is served with the vegetable. This cooking may 
be done directly over the flame, or on a hot plate of asbestos or heavy 
metal, or on the back of the range, or in a double boiler. The hard, 
sweet core of young cabbage heads, heated 15 to 30 minutes in this 
fashion, is a very different product from that which has been long 
boiled in water. The same thing is true of the outer stalks at the base 
of a head of cauliflower, which, though often discarded as refuse, ap- 
parently may have a higher food value than the fleshy part, and one as 
easily extracted as that of the fleshy floweret which is usually eaten. 

It is also evident that preliminary soaking in cold water, or starting 
the cooking process in cold instead of in boiHng water, will greatly in- 
crease cooking losses by prolonging the period of cooking, and by adding 
the extractive power of the water at lower temperatures to that at 
boiling temperature. 

8. WTien steamed, all vegetables lose weight, mostly because of 
the evaporation of water. When they are boiled in an open dish in 
excess of water, a starchy, or dry, or wilted vegetable, or one with air 
spaces which can become waterlogged, or one unusually high in crystal- 
loids (salts and sugars, which increase osmotic powers of the tissues), 
will take up water enough to gain in weight, even though it may have 
lost considerable amounts of solid matter. A Juicy or watery vegetable, 
or one protected by impermeable cuticle, loses water as well as solids, 
even when boiled in water, due no doubt to disturbances of colloidal 
systems within the tissues by the application of heat. The ease with 
which juice flows from heated meat or fruit (or from heated proto- 
plasmic structures, seen under the microscope) is a matter of com- 
mon observation, as is the drjoiess of boiled meat in comparison with 
properly roasted meat. Again, a sound potato, boiled in its unpierced 
jacket, almost always loses a Httle in weight; and often a slight ac- 
cumulation of water may be perceived underneath the skin, before it 
has succeeded in escaping. Vegetables cooked in salted water tend 
to lose weight more strongly than do those cooked in distilled or tap 
water; the strong solution outside the tissues draws water out of them 
by osmosis, as does salt on meat, or sugar on berries. Soaking vege- 
tables in cold distilled or tap water, however, swells them but does 
not cause heavy loss of solids, since the protoplasm is not killed and is 
able to retain its solutes to considerable degree for a time, at least 
before bacterial action shall have made itself felt. 



206 THE JOUKNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [May- 

It is evident, then, that a comparison of weights before and after 
cooking can give no information as to the extent of loss of solids. Yet 
we sometimes hear the commercial canners using this line of argument, 
in denying that losses take place in blanching. But the circumstance 
that young peas may show no increase in weight during blanching, does 
not prove nor indicate that no loss of salts, sugar, or protein of the 
pea takes place. 

9. It may be readily observed in case of a well-packed jar that the 
processing method used in home canning of vegetables or fruit sub- 
merged in a boiling water bath results in the presence of a mini- 
mum amount of juice in the jar. In a sample of cabbage the combined 
weight of vegetables and brine or juice is less than the original weight 
of raw vegetable. In one of string beans there is an excess of water, due 
partly to the fact that there were not enough beans on hand to fill the 
jar, but also to the different method of canning, that of cooking with 
pressure steam while the jar is completely sealed, thus preventing any 
escape of liquid. 

This small amount of juice is a very different condition from that 
which sometimes has obtained in commercially canned goods. While 
due cliiefly to differences in closeness of pack, it is also due to the fact 
that during the two or three hours of processing in a boiling water bath 
the contents of the partially sealed jar are continually giving off steam 
to the water bath, even when the bath completely submerges jar and 
cover, or to the atmosphere above it, in case submersion is incomplete. 
The constantly escaping stream of air and steam bubbles, over or under 
the rubber gasket, can readily be observed during the entire period of 
processing. When the jar is hfted out of the bath, presumably the 
operator at once makes the seal tight; and, even though the seal should 
perhaps not chance to continue absolutely tight during the process of 
cooling, there is more or less vacuum remaining until the jar is opened, 
in a successful product which "keeps" well. The smaller amount of 
water or juice in the jar, then, may have only a moderate or even a rela- 
tively low extractive value, in spite of the long boiling period. Further- 
more, the flavor of this juice is good, and it can be served with the vege- 
table, which is often not the case with jars or cans containing a large 
amount of watery juice in metal containers. 

We may conclude, then, that the methods for home canning, as prac- 
ticed in following the directions issued by extension workers in agri- 
culture and home economics, U. S. Dept. of Agriculture, compare very 



1919] CIL\NGES IN FOOD VALUE OF \"EGETABLES 207 

favorably with other methods of canning as to the effect upon the nutri- 
tive ^•aIue of the product, provided pains be taken to reduce losses from the 
blanching process. This precaution is particularly important in case of 
young tender peas, carrots, corn, vegetables of the cabbage and onion 
families, and any vegetables pared and cut or broken into shreds or 
short lengths before blanching. 

It is clearly of the greatest importance, as has been so often dem- 
onstrated, that the juice of vegetables escaping into cooking water 
should be conserved, and methods of making this juice palatable de- 
serve the cook's attention. If onions must be boiled in excess of water 
to reduce their flavor, at least this water may be concentrated by boil- 
ing until it can furnish a suitable flavor for milk or cream soups, or broths 
or sauces, for vegetable or meat hash or stew, or loaf or croquettes. 

A great deal of trouble has been taken to discover the best method 
of cooking each cut and kind of meat so as to secure optimum results. 
It is time that vegetable cookery received a larger share of attention from 
the average woman. The problems which arise in the cooking of each 
kind of vegetable should be given attention on their own merits. General 
directions for the cooking of the different classes as underground tubers 
and root stocks, or green vegetables, are exceedingly useful, yet 
further details appropriate to each occasion should not be forgotten. 
Here is one small illustration concerning a point too often overlooked: 
when some parts of a vegetable are very much tougher and more re- 
sistant than others the two should not as a nfle be cooked together 
imtil the toughest part is "done," for this is likely to destroy the more 
dehcate flavor of the tender parts. We do not expect to cook the ten- 
derloin strip and the tail piece of a porterhouse steak successfully by the 
same process; or if tliis is done, the tougher pieces are finely chopped 
before cooking, and tliis reduces the extra time needed. Often the same 
method of procedure can be used with vegetables. It is a clear waste, 
in times of high prices, to throw away the leaf petioles of kohlrabi or 
cauliflower, the central core of young cabbage or parsnips; very likely 
these have as liigh a soluble carbohydrate value as does the remainder of 
the vegetable. If grinding or chopping be substituted for a portion of the 
cooking process, or if these more resistant parts can be given a separate 
long slow cooking in fireless cooker or double boiler, the palatability 
of the combination may be enhanced, and its nutrients conserved. 

One word remains to be said, from the standpoint of modem theories 
of nutrition. Indications are not lacking that we may at last come to 



208 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [May 

believe that spring "rheumatism" and pallor and skin disturbance; those 
cases of pyorrhea which are akin to what has sometimes been called 
scurvy, low resistance to many winter infections, and that common evil, 
constipation, can conceivably be favorably affected by such an increase 
in the diet of these vegetable salts, acids (and possibly 'Sdtamines"), as 
occurs when we change from a winter diet of canned and heavily extracted 
vegetables to a spring diet of fresh or Ughtly cooked ones.-^ At least it 
seems worthwhile to take measures to prevent our foods from being de- 
pleted of these vegetable extracts which should no more be thrown 
away than should the drippings of fat and juice which cook out of 
meat. Yet many a woman, who would be shocked at the idea of 
throwing away a meat broth, does not hesitate to discard a much more 
highly nutritious vegetable broth. 

Since the above words were written a study has appeared (Jour. 
Amer. Med. Assn., March 30, 1918) which exactly illustrates the point 
in view. Dr. Hess, a notable authority on scurvy, rickets, and other 
phases of pediatrics, considers it likely that the rickets, so commonly 
occurring among negroes in New York City, may have some relation to 
the lack of fresh vegetables and fruits in the diet. He finds that these 
emigrants from the West Indies never have the disease while li\iag 
where the diet contains large amounts of fresh vegetables and fruits. 



1. Boiled vegetables may lose as low as 15 per cent or as high as 60 
per cent of their fuel value, according to the method of manipulation. 
Those vegetables which are cooked within their own heavy, intact 
jackets, such as unpeeled Irish potatoes and beets, will of course lose 
much less even than this minimum. The extent of the loss depends 
upon the amount of soluble carbohydrate and protein present in the 
vegetable tissues, as well as upon the manipulation. 

2. Losses in salts and nitrogen often, if not always, slightly exceed the 
fuel or caloric losses. 

3. Blanching for 5 or 6 minutes causes losses of 8 to 15 per cent in 
salts or fuel value. Peeled and sliced vegetables lose twice as much. 

4. Salting the water (1.5 per cent solution, or about 1 tablespoon to 
the quart) decreases the losses in fuel value due to boiling. 

" It is of great interest and pleasure to the first hokier of the Ellen H. Richards Fellow- 
ship, at the University of Chicago, who writes these lines, to learn that this doctrine was vig- 
orously propagated by that wise and far-seeing woman. 



1919] CHANGES IN FOOD VALUE OF VEGETABLES 209 

5. Cutting the vegetable cross\\'ise instead of lengtliwisc, or into small 
instead of large pieces, increases the losses. 

6. Steaming usually cuts the caloric losses down almost to zero; also 
the salt losses, except in case of leafy tissues, such as cabbage or 
spinach, which expose a very large amount of surface to the action 
of the condensing vapor. However, if conditions within the steamer 
are such that water washes down over the vegetable mass, steaming 
may cause very large losses. Particularly is this the case with pressure 
steamers. 

7. The two factors most potent in causing variations in cooking losses 
are varying lengths of time of cooking, and varying amounts of water 
used in proportion to mass of vegetables to be cooked. 

8. Steamed vegetables always lose in weight. Boiled vegetables may 
gain in weight because their intercellular spaces take up water at the 
same time that they are losing heavily in mineral salts and soluble 
carbohydrates and proteins. 

9. Home caiming often results in a maximum amount of vegetables 
and a minimum amount of watery juice in the jar, partly because of 
close packing and partly because Hquid is driven off during the period of 
processing with the seal only partially made. This relatively small 
amount of juice in the jar is a great advantage from the standpoint 
of true nutritive economy, — whatever may be its effect upon ease of 
sterilization of the vegetable mass. 



ADDENDUM 

The author takes pleasure in acknowledging her indebtedness to 
Dean Marion Talbot, Head of the Department of Household Admin- 
istration; to Major A. J. Carlson, and to Dr. A. B. Luckhardt, of the 
Department of Physiology; and to Dr. F. C. Koch, of the Depart- 
ment of Physiological Chemistry, University of Chicago; for advice, 
supervision, and many favors in the way of laboratory facilities. 



210 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [May 

THE BEGINNINGS OF A PENNY PORTION LUNCH 

GEORGE B. MASSLICH 
Principal, Wells School, Chicago 

Running across a street filled with automobiles, trucks, and cars, at 
recess time, to the dirty little "school store" with its gum and candy of 
the cheapest grade, or staying in safety within the school grounds to 
buy of one's fellow pupil's good candy, clean in its manufacture and 
handling, — this choice was the beginning of the Wells School lunch. 

One hundred penny pieces of candy cost the dealer sixty or seventy 
cents. The pupil's store, with no overhead expenses, began to accumulate 
a capital which in true cooperative fashion was invested in the business, 
so that within a few days a further choice was possible. A glass of skim 
milk with a cooky, served by a pupil with clean hands and wearing a 
clean white apron, argued with the stick of candy or the four marsh- 
mallows. This was, of course, before the war and at pre-war prices; 
the argument now is between half a glass of skim milk and two marsh- 
mallows. 

There were no secrets between buyer and seller, for the buyer of today, 
if he or she were above the third grade, might be the seller of tomorrow. 
The nulk with the cooky sold at cost, but the candy profits paid for the 
glasses, for the paper napkins, and for the aprons and towels made and 
hemmed in the home economics classes. Moderate sales of candy suf- 
ficed to pay expenses and add to the equipment, so that we felt justified 
in continuing it as the store prospered and we undertook a noon busi- 
ness with cookies, crackers, fruit, and "home cooked" food. Although 
the same freedom of choice was allowed as at first, the sales of candy 
increased only slightly. 

As the situation became more and more complex improvements were 
made, not a few through suggestions by the pupil workers themselves. 
Aluminum checks good for a penny each were sold in advance and 
dropped into the box at each section of the counter. This plan served 
as a test of the accuracy (and honesty) of the cashier, enabled one to 
count portions for the cost schedule, and made it unnecessary for those 
who served the food to make change or handle money. A corps of 
servers and clerks involved a manager, and the use of many dishes 
made it seem wise, even though other help was voluntary, to pay someone 
for the drudgery of washing them. An account was opened at the 



1919] BEGINNINGS OF A PENNY LUNCH 211 

local bank, and various upper grade pupils took turns counting the day's 
receipts, making out the deposit slips, and sending the money to the 
bank. 

One of the duties of the manager for the day has been to count the 
cost of the items in each "dish" and compare the cost and the selling 
price — the aim being to have neither a profit nor a loss on the whole 
day's business, exclusive of the candy and cookies which show a fairly 
constant profit. 

A word as to the honesty mentioned above. Once in a long while we 
have found that several of the servers have helped themselves to a 
cooky or two. These minor epidemics all seem to have arisen when a 
pupil, tempted to take something, has sought to justify his act on the 
ground that he was a helper, and then has communicated his plea to 
others with him. The sense of partial ownership appeals to all the 
children involved in the enterprise, and the argument, whether ethical 
or not, that taking from the lunch room is taking from each other and 
from themselves and is therefore very bad, has been sufficient to stop 
the practice. 

From the first, a certain amount of supervision and help has been 
given by the principal or by a teacher. Food has been bought on 
monthly account and paid for by check, the pupils merely verifying 
the bills by the delivery slips. After two years of pupil management 
we asked the Board of Education for three dollars a week to pay for 
dish washing and for help in cooking. This was granted and the amount 
was increased later. At the beginning of the fourth year and since that 
time — during the past year and a half — we have received from the Board, 
for help, a sum equal to a third or a half of the total receipts. The 
major part has been used to pay the part time salary of a home economics 
teacher and the minor part for common labor. Pupils, both boys and 
girls, continue to assist under the direction of this teacher. The task of 
helping (considered by the child a privilege) comes to each pupil about 
once in six weeks, except that to a special group of girls in the fifth 
grade who are over age it comes somewhat oftener. Food products 
from the regular cooking class are used at times in the school lunch, and, 
altogether, the services of the children are more in demand than ever 
before. 

Including the sales of candy, crackers, and cookies, over thirteen 
hundred penny portions are sold every day. Each sale is for a check 
costing one cent, and, from a typical menu of cocoa, skim milk, soup, 



212 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [May- 

beef stew, macaroni, baked beans, chocolate pudding, prunes, and sand- 
wiches, one may select a meal of substance and variety for five or six 
cents. It is amazing that children whose diet at home is devoid of 
variety and who insist that they do not like this or that — particularly 
cream soups and vegetables — have, of their own choice, bought and 
eaten nearly a hundred different dishes at the lunch room. We try to 
limit the child to one penny portion of each kind ; we talk about variety 
and value of food in a simple way in the class room, and at times we 
advertise a new food, as, for example, when it was announced that a 
dish much used by American Indians — succotash — would be served; 
but the final choice rests with the child himself. 

We have, I believe, demonstrated that it is possible, by a combination 
of store and lunch room, to start without capital; that good candy is 
the best argument against poor candy; that good food is an argument 
against all candy; and that interested cooperation is worth more than 
equipment. 

Further development in a number of directions is needed. No lim- 
itations of time, space, or money can excuse failure to provide children 
with facilities for washing their hands and for hanging up their wraps, 
or time to eat leisurely. The art of eating as a family group, using the 
accepted table ware and observing approved manners, is not only con- 
ducive to health but may become a social asset. The conception of a 
school lunch as a soup kitchen, pure and simple, ignores the fact that it 
is part of an educational institution and should not smack of the orphan 
asylum. Eight or ten children seated at a table with a teacher or an 
older child and served by one of the group may have a delightful time 
together without realizing how much they are learning. 

As the school lunch is more than a restaurant so the director should be 
more than a practical cook. The thought underlying calories, proteins, 
and balanced rations can be brought into the comprehension of young 
people. Taking inventories, counting costs, planning menus, discussing 
recipes, directing the work of others — these means of education con- 
stitute a powerful argument for putting every school lunch in charge 
of a home economics teacher, and for unifying, gradually, the lunch and 
the teaching of home economics; but that is not easy. 

The problem of feeding the child who is too poor to buy can be solved 
when checks are used by having his teacher give them to him secretly. 
His mates have no idea that he has not paid for them. A more difficult 
problem is that of inducing those who most need the lunch to patronize 



1919] ANNEXING MULBERRY BEND TO THE U. S. A. 213 

it. Upper grade pupils as a rule have several times as many pennies 
to spend as have children in the primary grades, and naturally buy with 
more judgment. Many children do not have even a penny, and others, 
because they are shy, or for some other reason, do not come near the 
lunch room. A good plan with the smaller children is to lead the whole 
class during school time into the lunch room, pro\-ide each one with a 
"free check", and have them go through the regular routine of getting a 
cup of cocoa. After all are seated a short period of story telling on the 
part of the teacher will be enough to disguise the purpose of the visit. 

We have been careful never to give the impression that the lunch is 
a charity affair for poor children. We supply the day nursery, which 
is a department of the school, with food; and nearly every teacher 
regularly supplements her package lunch with soup and other hot dishes, 
simply because the quality is good. We are conscious of our limitations 
and of our failures; but we find a grain of comfort when the pupil helpers 
ask if they may not take some soup to a sick neighbor, or when a boy 
of twelve, left to cook for his father and little brothers and sisters while 
his mother is in the hospital, asks the teacher what he might safely 
attempt to cook at home, or when a couple of girls after school go into 
a home where the mother is ill, wash and dress the little children, get 
supper, and straighten up the house. There is a human side even to 
the school lunch. 



ANNEXING MULBERRY BEND TO THE U. S. A. 

It is in that part of the city, of which Jacob Riis often spoke and 
wrote, that the Educational Nursing Bureau of the Association for 
Improving the Condition of the Poor decided to attempt some public 
health work. Prenatal nurses began the work by a house-to-house 
canvass for the purpose of giving to expectant mothers such instruc- 
tion as should insure a normal, healthy baby, and a well, strong mother. 

The question is often asked, "How do you gain access to the home? 
Do you find a ready welcome? Are the mothers responsive?" 

When we remember that 95 per cent of these mothers are foreign 
born, and speak practically no English; that prenatal nursing is a recent 
branch of public health nursing; that the medical care is given entirely 
by midwives, who assure the mothers that the nurse is not necessary — we 
are not surprised on our first visit to find a doubtful, wondering mother. 



214 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [May 

During the interval between visits the mother tells a neighbor of 
our visit. Perhaps this mother has just returned from convalescing 
at our Caroline Rest, or her baby, who had a disfiguring hare-lip, is now 
as pretty as any baby in the block. So she establishes for us our future 
good relations with our patient. 

Along with the nurse has worked the dietitian in any family where 
the poor condition of the children has seemed to be due to improper 
feeding. Malnutrition clinics were organized for the imder-nourished 
children of these homes. The first clinic was started at a Board of 
Health Milk Station. Later it was transferred to a school building. 
Three other clinics have been opened, two in schools and one in a diet 
kitchen. There are enrolled today at these four clinics 381 children, 
of whom 220 (57 per cent) are underweight. In all, 51 clinics have been 
held, and 652 home xisits have been made by the dietitians. 

The main idea ruiming through the clinic and home work has been 
to get a plan which would give both the mother, with the folks in the 
home, and the school child the same opportunity to learn together some 
lessons in better living, with especial emphasis on the food question. 
To teach the mother alone is not enough, because, if you get the mother 
to cook the food as instructed, very often the children refuse to eat 
it because it does not mean anything to them. Again, it is not enough 
to interest the child without in some way bringing in the mother; a 
too frequent result of that is to arouse an antagonism between the child 
and his mother. So we have tried to run the two Unes of instruction 
as nearly parallel as possible. For example: the weight chart with 
the child's name on it so that everyone knows whose chart it is, the 
colored stars as rewards for the establishment of better food habits, 
give the child a feeling that he has a certain responsibility in the matter, 
and also urge him on by creating the spirit of competition between 
him and the other children. On the other hand, the frequent visits 
to the home tend to give the mother the idea that you are interested 
in her personally, and that if her child is to do as well as the child next 
door she must contribute her part by giving the child the opportunity 
of ha\'ing the things which will improve him. 

We hear so much to-day as to the need of Americanization of our 
foreign folks. Is there any better promise of Americanization than in 
the daily, patient teaching of these mothers and children in the essentials 
of clean, healthy living? At least it is along this line that we believe 
we can best do our part in Americanization work. — Bagdad on the Sub- 
way, A. I. C. P. 



FOR THE HOMEMAKER 

THE CAVE OF PRECIOUS THINGS 
A Short Play for Children 

ALICE WANGENHEIM 
Adapted by K. W. Hinks 

Characters: 

Jane. 

Bobbie. 

Ellen, their nurse. 

Captain of the Forty Ex-Thieves. 

A Little Belgian Girl. 

A Soldier Boy. 

A Sailor Boy. 

A Little Rich Boy. 

Members of the Band of Ex-Thieves. 
Scene: Jane and Bobbie's nursery; five in the afternoon. The setting is 

simple: a shallow stage with no break in the background except a 

tall cabinet covered -with rose-colored curtains, in the center; and a low 

table across which Jane and Bobbie in low chairs sit facing each 

other. Jane is reading from a big book. 
Jane (Reading slowly and somewhat laboriously): "Then the Queen 
of the Sea made a great fire under the golden bowl, and in it she threw 
perfumes and aloes w^ood and stirred it; whereat a great steam and bub- 
bling uprose, and there came forth a huge Djinn whose head reached 

the vaulted roof " 

Bobbie (As Ellen appears in the doorway with a tea-tray): Hoor-rayl 
Tea-time. 

Jafie (Paying no attention, as Ellen sets down the tray and then stands 
listening, arms akimbo): " 'What is it thou wouldst know, damsel'? quoth 

he " 

Ellen: "What is it thou wouldst know" indeed! It would be that 
much better to my way of thinking. Miss Jane, if you'd leave reading 

215 



216 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [May 

about people as don't talk like anybody ever heard, and eat your bread 
and butter! 

Jane {Hurt) : It's the Arabian Nights, Ellen 1 

Ellen goes out. The children start eating, Bobbie leaving the criisls of 
bread. Bobbie pulls a dollar hill out of his pocket. 

Bobbie (Calling): Ellen! (Ellen re-enters.) 

Bobbie (Waving the bill): Look what Uncle Tom gave me! I'm going 
to the movies tonight. 

Jane: And I'm going too. 

Ellen: Now, Master Bobbie, you're not to go to the show tonight, you 
went last night. You know that you should save your money. And see 
those crusts of bread you have left. You won't have anything to eat 
at all if you keep on this way. 

Jane (Alarmed): Ellen — are we — are we poor? 

Ellen: Bless you, no — but the Govermnent asks you to save. 

Bobbie: I don't care, I'm going to the movie tonight. 

Jane (Eating only the frosting off her cake): And we're going to get ice 
cream and candy afterwards, too. You can't make us save. You stingy 
old thing. 

Bobbie: I guess I can spend my money if I want to (puts four spoonfuls 
of sugar into his chocolate, tastes it, makes a face, and pushes the cup 
back). 

Ellen leaves the room. The children sullenly continue with their meal, 
kicking their shoes against the chair and marring the furniture. 

Jane (Messing her chocolate around in an aimless manner): The mean, 
stingy old thing. 

Bobbie (Watching her listlessly): Why don't you be the Queen of the 
Sea and make a spell. 

Jane (At once becoming interested): How? 

Bobbie: Here, give me the big spoon to stir with. We might as well 
have some fun. 

The light in the room suddenly grows dint. Voices in a sort of sing song 
are heard outside. The rose-colored curtains slide back to reveal a high, 
massive door behind them. 

Bobbie: Why look at the curtains! 

Jane: And the door! 

Bobbie: It's where our play-cabinet was! 

They leave the table and, hand in hand, stand before the door. Sing song 
voices come from behind it. 



THE CAVE OF PRECIOUS THINGS 217 

Bobbie: What can it be? 

Jane: Maybe it's the door to the cave of the Forty Thieves! 

Bobbie: Do you suppose it will open? 

Jane: Let's try! 

Bolh: Open, Sesame! 

The door sloidy opens wi^de, revealing the fidl depth of the stage within. 
At the same time the sides (which formed the old back) are drawn into the 
wings, leaving not even the little table as trace of the first part. The stage, 
which has become somewhat dark in the last few minutes is flooded with 
light, revealing the scene first observed through the open door. 

It is a great cavern, against whose dark walls can be seen barrels of flour, 
sacks of grain, bags of sugar, and piles of gold and silver money. There 
are several large record books on a chest at one side. Fifteen or twenty little 
men in Oriental garb, very brilliant as to sashes, bloomers, and head-pieces, 
are engaged in hauling some heavy chests into the cave from another entrance 
{left). Others are moving bags and barrels out of the cave. A number 
of them are pulling rhythmically on the ropes in the manner of sailors, 
while chanting a sort of " heave-ho" at regtdar intervals — the noise which 
has been heard before: 

They do not notice Jane and Bobbie, ivho stand hand in hand, looking at 
them. 

Bobbie: Please, sirs — who are you? 

The little men stop their occupations and stare in a surprised but 
riendly manner at the two children. 

The Captain: What have we here? How did you get in? 

Jane: We just came. Are you the Forty Thieves? 

Capt.: We are the reformed Forty Thieves — and quite reformed too! 
You see we weren't really killed by the oil — they put that in to make a 
good ending. Now we are the Collectors and Keepers of the Savings. 
Meet my men, won't you? Come out, my jolly men. {To the chil- 
dren:) You are Bobbie and Jane, aren't you? 

Jane: How'd you know? 

Captain: Oh, I'm getting to know people pretty well these days. 
Yes, and I know more about you. 

Bobbie (Surprised): What — ? 

Captain: I don't wonder that you're surprised. You sec all those 
black books over there. We keep a record of everybod}- in them. So 
we know what is happening. That's our business. 

Bobble: But — but what kind of a record? 



218 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [May 

Jane: Yes, what kind of a record? May we see ours? 

Two little men have brought one of the big books to the Captain. He 
thumbs through several pages. 

Captain {Reading): Bobbie Davis. Expense record for the first week 
in May. Food wasted at the table, value one dollar; lost sweater, two 
dollars; torn coat, one dollar and a half; picture shows, 50 cents; ice 
cream, 60 cents; candy, 30 cents; Saving Stamps — what? Nothing. 

Jane: Oh, Captain, please don't read mine. 

The Captain closes the book. 

Bobbie (Thoughtfully): Why do you keep that record? 

The Captain sits on one of the chests with the children at his feet. In 
the back ground the Ex-Thieves go on luiuling chests, bags, and barrels in 
and out while they continue their chant in a low tone. 

Captain: I'll tell you why. Children who are wasteful and don't 
save these days should have things explained to them. Should I begin 
at the beginning? 

Bobbie: Yes. 

Jane: At the very beginning. 

Captain: Well, before there was a war, there was enough for every- 
body in most countries. People ate what they liked and wore what 
they chose because there was lots for everybody else. Then came the 
war. The farmers in the countries at war, who had been raising the 
grains and other things, all went off to fight — but everybody had to 
eat just the same. The war spread and spread and pretty soon fields 
and orchards were turned into battle fields and even when they weren't, 
it grew harder and harder to raise enough food, or to send it from one 
place to another. So pretty soon there wasn't enough bread for those 
the soldiers had left behind, or sugar for the people's porridge, or milk 
for the babies, or clothing enough for anybody. Pretty soon people 
in this country began to see that there was not enough to go around, 
so almost everybody was as careful as could be of everything, and sent 
away all that could be carried. Then our soldiers went away to war, 
and we had to send things to them too. 

Now the war is over, Uncle Sam must still take care of his men and 
pay the bills and for a little while help other countries too. But how 
can we do this if the men and women, and boys and girls use up all 
their money for themselves, and buy things they do not need, and for- 
get to be careful of Die food and clothes they have? The President and 
the Chief Grown-ups arc showing all the children how they can really 
help Uncle Sam. 



1919] THE CAVE OF PRECIOUS THINGS 219' 

An Ex-Thief (In a mysterious voice, tapping the Captain on the arm): 
There's a messenger outside, asking for some things. 

Captain: Bring him in. 

A soldier enters and salutes. 

Soldier: Sir, the Army in France must have supplies for the 
Commissary. 

Captain: All ready for you. I think the people know how badly you 
need them. 

Exit soldier mth little men carrying barrels and bags. 

Ex-Thief (To the Captain): Another messenger, your Captainship! 

Enter a sailor who salutes. 

Sailor: Sir, the Navy needs money for the men on her ships. 

Captain: She shall have it. It is ready. (Pointing to a chest.) 

Exit sailor boy. The Ex-Thieves haul out cliests as before. 

Bobbie: My! I like him. I'd give him anything. 

A plump little boy in a Little Lord Fauntleroy suit enters. 

Little Boy {To Captain): Are you the Collector and Keeper of the 
Savings? 

Captain: That's my name. And who may you be? 

Boy {Drawing himself up): I'm the richest boy in our part of town; 
I get everything I want. I'm going to take my savings and spend them. 

He goes over to the money and starts counting it out. 

Bobbie and Jane: Oh, don't let him do it. 

Captain {Sorrowfully turning to an Ex-Thief): Any more outside? 

Ex-Thief: One more, Captain. 

A very thin, forlorn looking Belgian Girl enters and goes up to the Captain. 

The Girl: Please sir, will you help my daddy rebuild our home? 

Captain: I'm sorry little girl, but I can't unless the American boys 
and girls save {pointing to the Rich Boy who goes out counting his money). 
The little girl begins to cry. 

Jane: Poor little thing. 

Bobbie: I'm going to help her. 

Jane {to tlte little girl) : We are Jane and Bobbie, and we are so sorry 
we forgot about you, and didn't save our money. We'll go right home 
and try to find the things you need, and we'll be careful of our clothes 
and food and everything else, so the money it would take to buy more 
can be sent to you instead. 

Exit little girl, happy. 

Captain: No more messengers. Time to shut up the Cave for the 
night. {To the children) And before you go, would you like a suit of 



220 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [May 

armor or a pet tiger to take home? Or is there anything else you'd 
like? 

Both children: No indeed — we have everything we need. 

Captain: Remember that, and you won't go wrong! Good-bye! 
Shall we open the door for you? 

Several of the Ex-Thieves, in a low, sepulchral voice, call: "Open Ses- 
ame." The stage grows dark. When it is light again, the scene is as it 
was at the beginning of the play. The Children are sitting once more, now 
in semi-darkness, at the little table. 

Ellen enters with a light. 

Ellen: Bless the children! Have you gone to sleep in the dark? 
Wake up! It's most supper time. 

Jane: Supper time? Why — but we've been away. 

Ellen: Away is it, this time? I thought it was the "Arabian Nights." 

Bobbie: To the cave of the Forty Ex-Thieves — only they are Col- 
lectors and Keepers of the Savings now. Oh, it was just splendid! And 
we are going to save now! 

Jane: Oh, Ellen, we must help that little Belgian girl. 

Bobbie: And the soldiers and sailors, too! 

The children run out. Ellen looks after them in astonishment, hands 
upraised. 

Ellen {Puzzled): What's got into the lambs? 



THE SWISS WASH KITCHEN 

ELLEN HOWARD WILSON 

The wash kitchen in Zurich belongs, not to the separate apartment, 
but to the apartment house. Practically all the people in this city live 
in apartments which they call wohnungs. These dwellings are very 
complete, often containing a large central hall. An ordinary house 
will contain three or four dwellings, one occupying each floor. 

The cellar of the Zurich house is divided into a number of small rooms, 
with one large room, the wash kitchen, furnished with a stove and 
either with or without stationary tubs and ironing tables. Each dwelling 



1919] THE SWISS WASH KITCHEN 221 

has its own coal cellar, provided with lock and key; it may also have a 
room for vegetables. 

The wash-room is the general property of the apartments and its use 
is shared in different ways. One plan is for each apartment to have the 
use of the room for a week in turn. Let us suppose that Mrs. Doctor 
lives on the first floor; then, if there are four apartments, Mrs. Doctor 
will have the wash kitchen the first week of the month. She hires a 
washwoman, preferably a widow, and she or her maid must be up betimes 
to arrange for the woman when the important day arrives. The coal 
cellar belonging to the first floor is unlocked, displaying its wealth of coal 
and wood. The kindling wood is in tiny bundles, each stick being about 
eight inches long by less than an inch thick. Because it is carefully 
prepared it will kindle a fire better than two or three times its bulk care- 
lessly cut. The washerwoman, after she has started her fire, takes her 
first breakfast of coffee, sausage, and bread, eating either in the sunny 
kitchen on the first floor or down in the wash kitchen. 

Breakfast dispatched, she goes to work. She has before her the larger 
pieces of linen and all the washable clothing used by the family during 
the month except such few small pieces as Mrs. Doctor and her maid 
have attended to themselves. If Mrs. Doctor is economical, and that 
goes without saying if she is Swiss, small articles like handkerchiefs and 
collars will have been laundered each week. Foreigners and very 
wealthy Zurichers may send some things to the nearby laundry. 

The strong-armed woman will wash everything in a day or a day and 
a half; but then comes the drying. If the sun withholds its rays, as he 
verj' generally does when the summer is over, the roof drying-room is 
of no avail, and the drying must be done in the two kitchens. It is for 
this reason that our lady needs her wash kitchen for the week, although 
the work may be over, sometimes, in three days. 

The Swiss family saves fuel by the use of the wash kitchen, as well as 
in the heating of apartments, and in the use of bakers' ovens. If Mrs. 
Doctor had had her own laundry, and had employed a laundress each 
week, she would have used two or three times as much fuel, to say noth- 
ing of wages. 

It is not a bad arrangement, once you are used to it, but woe be to 
the housekeeper who forgets to have ready the supply of kindling, or 
the beer and cheese for the laundress's second breakfast. If she forgets 
these, she must hurry to the Consum Verein, and her maid must bring 
back the heavy articles. 



222 THE JOtJRNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [May 

THE CHATFIELD LAUNDRY— AFTER SIX YEARS 

MARY L. BULL 
State Home Economics Extension Worker, Minnesota 

The Chatfield cooperative laundry in the first year or two of its ex- 
istence was watched with great interest, doubtful ones being sure that it 
could not be a success. Six years of successful operation have proved 
that such a laundry is not only possible, but that, if not an absolute 
necessity to the community, it is one of the helps which will make 
for the much needed conservation of woman power. 

The real beginning of the laundry was at a meeting of the County 
Life Commission held at the University Farm, St. Paul, Mirm., De- 
cember 11, 1908, when the possibility and practicability of organizing 
cooperative laundries in connection with already established coop- 
erative creameries was discussed. The idea originated in the mind of 
Mr. Clarence Wedge of Albert Lea, then editor of the Orchard and 
Garden Department of The Farmer, and it later received considerable 
notice through the press. 

Some farmers of Chatfield, Fillmore County, became interested in 
the project and brought it before two well established organizations, 
the Farmers Club and the Cooperative Creamery Association, where 
it was discussed and brought to the notice of the town as well as the 
rural commimities. In 1912, the cooperative laundry of Chatfield was 
organized — the first in the state as well as the first of its kind in the 
United States. The cooperative creamery which made such a laundry 
possible had been established in 1889 and was such a success that the 
stockholders had reaUzed in dividends $2.70 on every $1.00 invested 
at the time of organization. At an annual meeting of the stockholders 
it was decided to pass their dividends and allow them to accumulate. 
In 1912, when ways and means of starting a laundry were discussed, 
the accumulated dividends amounted to $2,000. This sum they voted 
to use in building an addition to the creamery building which could be 
rented to the laundrj' corporation. 

The laundry corporation was made a separate corporation because 
many town people, who were not stockholders in the creamery, were 
. interested and became stockholders in the laundry. The object of the 
laundry enterprise was to be of service to the patrons, not to realize a 
profit on investment. Shares were sold at $5.00, and stockholders in- 
vested from five to twenty-five dollars. A stockholder has one vote 



1919] THE CH.\TFIELD LAUNDRY 223 

whether he holds one or more shares. In 1914, there were 224 stock- 
holders. The officers of the laundry association were the same as those 
of the creamery association and this policy still continues. 

The laimdry room is 30 x 70 feet, and has windows on both sides and 
one end. The original equipment consisted of two 36x62 No. 11 plain 
three-apartment wood washers; one 32 x30No. 2 plain wood washer; one 
100-inch 5 roll ironer, ribbon feed, automatic stop, belt driver; one 26- 
inch S. C. extractor; one 60 gallon iron soaptank; one 25 gallon H. R. 
starch cooker; one one-section dry room; three plain all metal trucks; 
three vertical steam coils and fan; one 11, 8 x 18 combined ironer, tilt 
boards, shirt board with clamps; one collar board; one Litchfield gas 
burner; one No. 5 shoe band ironer; one hot tube shaper; one barrel 
frame starcher; one No. 24 shaw collar shaper; and one gas machine. 
This equipment is sufficient to turn out $400 worth of work per week. 
One form ironer has been added to the equipment, since the man in 
charge at present felt that too much time was being spent in ironing the 
bodies of shirts by hand, and that the body ironer would be an econom- 
ical investment. 

There are employed in the laundry one superintendent, one forewoman, 
five or six girls, and a delivery man. 

At first a rate of five cents per pound was charged for rough dried 
family work that came from the county. Town work had ten per cent 
added to cover collection and deHvery. At present the rate is six cents 
a pound for rough dried family work from the county and ten per cent 
added for town work. 

Country work is brought to and taken from the laundry on days when 
cream is brought to the creamery. If brought on Monday it may be 
taken away on Wednesday, if brought on Tuesday, it is ready on Thurs- 
day. In the rough dry family wash all flat work — sheets, pillow slips, 
bed spreads, towels, table Hnen, handkerchiefs, and plain curtains not 
requiring stretching — is put through the mangle. For unstarched 
articles requiring hand ironing an extra charge of from two to sLx cents 
a piece is charged. Starched articles come on a separate list. These 
prices are necessarily irregular because of the size, style, and trimming. 

One engine furnishes the heat and power for both the creamery and 
the laundry, the work of attending to the fixing being divided between 
the laundry and the creamery man. 

A recent survey of Chatfield Laundry activities shows that the average 
number of patrons for 1918 (to October 1) was 204, of which 38| per 



224 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [May 

cent is from the country, 39 per cent from town, and 22| per cent from 
adjoining towns. The amount of business done in 1916 was $6556.98, 
an average per month of $546.41; in 1917 it was $6750.85, an average 
per month of $562.57 ; in the nine months of 1918, the average per month 
was $573.46, showing a slight increase from year to year. 

In 1917, the balance sheets show that 66| per cent of the year's ex- 
penses were paid out for help and 29§ per cent for other things, as rent, 
power, soap, starch, gasoUne, twine, paper, and repairs, leaving a reserve 
fund of 4 per cent or $277.74. It is interesting to note that the number 
of patrons is practically the same summer and winter, that during the 
winter the greater proportion comes from the town and in the summer 
the proportion is greater from the farm. 

The survey however did not show any perceptible increase in rural 
patronage since the war. We believe that, if women are doing outside 
work as they are in so many places, some of the laborious work of the house 
should be taken from their shoulders. In a house to house canvass most 
house wives who were patrons of the laundry expressed the opinion that 
it was a most helpful institution and that they felt that sending laundry 
out was in their case an economical proposition. A few felt that laundries 
in general were hard on clothing, but others who had patronized the 
Chatiield Laimdry since it was established said that they did not find 
it true in this one. 

One little woman, old at 35, said with great pride, that she did all her 
work, washing, ironing, caring for the house in general, and sewing, as 
well as helping with the milking or doing it alone, and in busy times help- 
ing with the field work. When asked if she did not think it wise to save 
her strength and have some time to enjoy hfe, her remark was that she 
could not afford it. Later investigation showed that the family were 
well-to-do- farmers. 

One great factor which is needed in an enterprise of this kind is perfect 
cooperation. Chatfield seems to have found the keynote. Two women, 
when asked which they would prefer, a home laundry, fully equipped 
with power washer, wringer, machine ironer, and hot and cold water, 
or a good cooperative laundry, replied, without a moment's hesitation, 
the cooperative laundry. 

A laundry, cooperative or otherwise, must have someone in charge 
who understands the business and who believes it to be a business worthy 
of his best efforts. Again Chatfield seems to have secured the right 
person for the Superintendent of the Cooperative Laundry. 



EDITORIAL 

Belgian Society for the Education of the Family. The follow- 
ing letter, received by Dr. Langworthy, may be a suggestion toward 
international cooperation in home economics. 

The writer, M. Paul de Vuyst, an honorary member of the American 
Home Economics Association, and Chief Director of Agriculture in 
Belgium, has held for years a high reputation as a teacher of agricul- 
ture and an authority on agricultural education and agricultural em- 
ployment. He was influential in estabhshing the Domestic Agricultural 
Schools of Belgium, that give not only technical instruction but also the 
fundamentals of a general education, some also having courses on 
common law and on social economy. 

Partly as a development from these schools have come the special 
courses of lectures for farmers' wives, dealing with hygiene, sanitation, 
and the education of children, as well as the organization known as the 
Union of Farmers' Wives in Belgium. M. de Vuyst has published vari- 
ous articles and books on social and economic subjects and practical 
agriculture. One of the best known is his book on Woman's Place in 
Rural Economy. (Le role social de la Fermiere. Blackie & Son, 
London.) 

Brussels, Dec. 15, 1918. 
22 Avenue de I'Yser. 
Dear Sir: 

Please excuse me for writing you in French. On account of the German 
occupation we have read no English publications for four and a hah years. 
At last we are delivered from this oppression. What gratitude we owe Amer- 
ica for having preserved us from hunger and for having assisted in bringing 
about the triumph of justice! New bonds of sympathy between both countries 
will result. 

Please let us hear from you, and when you are ready to visit Europe we shall 
be most happy to receive you. 

My son has fought vahantly and has been wounded several times. We have 
not yet seen him as he is still in the hospital but he will return to us soon. Our 
daughters have grown. They have continued their studies and soon they will 
go to one of the allied countries to study the language and institutions. 

225 



226 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [May 

One now thinks of the reconstruction, economic, industrial, and financial, 
of the countries so sorely tried. This is urgent but there is a matter of stUl 
greater importance. 

Enclosed is a little pamphlet which I have published under the pseudonym, 
"A. Leconsier." You will find therein some reasonable ideas, a summary of 
which you might pubhsh in the American papers. 

Our League for the Education of the Family has decided to establish an In- 
stitute for the Education of the FamOy as a memorial to lasting peace and 
as the beginning of a new era of great world progress. This Institute will de- 
vote itself to the study and the popularization of the best methods of educa- 
tion in the family, and to the publication of documents. 

We speak particularly of the moral education, — the education of character. 
America, like Belgium, places high moral education above all other progress. 
We feel therefore that if, through the press, you could focus pubhc attention 
upon the importance of creating a similar Institute, generous contributions 
would be forthcoming, for there has always been generous support for a mul- 
titude of institutions for advancing the various sciences, arts, and industries; 
so it seems only logical that we should find support for the advancement of the 
most beautiful, the most important of arts, — the art by which parents may im- 
prove future generations. 

In attaching too much importance to the economic interests, certain oppo- 
sition may arise against us, since the effort to attain the highest degree of 
moral perfection necessarily uses pacific methods. 

Our League for the Education of the Family has been estabUshed for twenty 
years. It has been the imitator of the Great International Congress for the 
Education of the Family of which the President of the permanent Commis- 
sion is H. R. H., the Duchess of Verdun, sister to the King of Belgium. 

The fourth Congress should have convened in September, 1914, under Mr. 
Wilson, the illustrious president of your noble country. This congress was 
postponed because of the war, but we trust it will be called in a year or two. 

While waiting, we hope, thanks to American generosity, that the Institute 
completed may be realized. I venture to hope that you wiU make the neces- 
sary propaganda. 

Accept, dear sir, the assurance of my repeated good wishes. 

Paul de Vuyst, 
Directeur general au Ministere de V Agriculture. 



1919] THE QUESTION BOX 227 

THE QUESTION BOX 

Question : What change in flour does bleaching make? Does it change 
the quality or wholesomeness of the flour? Does any law exist in re- 
gard to it? 

Answer: Flour bleached by nitrogen peroxide is an adulteration 
product according to the decision of the Secretary of Agriculture and the 
Board of Food and Drug Inspection, following the public hearing held 
November 18-23, 1908. "The character of the adulteration is such that 
no statement upon the label will bring bleached flour within the law 
(Food and Drug Act of June 30, 1906)." — Westervelt's Pure Food and 
Drug Laws, 1912, p. 100. 

The nitrogen peroxide which has been extensively used in bleaching 
flour destroys almost immediately the yellow color which is associated 
with the fat. It also forms with the moisture of the flour nitrous and 
nitric acid. Bleaching, furthermore, diminishes the iodine number of 
the fat and affects the quality of the gluten. Studies dealing with the 
digestibihty of the constituents of wheat flour which has been bleached 
by nitrogen peroxide have given contradictory results. Artificial diges- 
tion experiments with gluten from bleached and unbleached flour indi- 
cate that the bleached product digested in less time than the unbleached. 
But according to one investigator the yeast bread from bleached flour 
did not differ in digestibihty from bread made with unbleached flour. 
The nitrite reacting material apparently disappeared before the bread 
was removed from the oven. Another investigator reports that, al- 
though the difference in digestibihty of bread from the two flours, 
bleached and unbleached, was less marked than in the case of the flours, 
yet similar variations were observed. Rats and guinea pigs, fed bleached 
flour, over long periods, in addition to a general diet, apparently 
grew normally. On the other hand, alcohoUc and aqueous extracts 
from the bleached flour caused death in rabbits in a few hours, the extract 
from the over-bleached flour being even more drastic in action. 

Ladd, E. F. and Bassett, H. P.: Bleaching of Flour. Jour. Biol. Client., 6 (1909), p. 75. 
Rockwood, E. W. : The Effects of Bleaching upon the Digestibility of Flour. Jour. Biol. Chem., 

8 (1910), p. 327. 
Ladd, E. F., and White, H. L. : Effect of Bleached Flour Extracts on Rabbits. North Dakota 

Station Special Bulletin 9. 
Wesener, J. A., and Teller, G. L. : Flour Bleaching, its Relation to Bread Production and 

Nutrition. Jour. Indus, and Engin. Chem., 1 (1909), p. 700. 
Leach, A. E.: Food Inspection and .\nalysis, New York, 1913. 



228 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [May 

Question: Is there any truth in the popular belief regarding the 
"poison" in orange peehng? If so, to what is this due? Have the 
peeUngs any food value? 

Answer: Persons who are much exposed to inhalations of the oil of 
bitter oranges are apt to be affected with cutaneous eruptions and 
various nervous disorders, headaches, gastralgia, want of sleep and even 
muscular spasms. Violent colic, convulsions, and even death have been 
caused in children by eating large quantities of the rind. The toxic 
principle is apparently the glucoside hesperidin, C22H26O12. The orange 
rind has very Httle food value. It is used principally for its essential oil 
and color in the preparation of extracts, and for the pectin which it con- 
tains. Recent investigations by Hess and linger have shown that the 
rind has anti-scorbutic properties. Watery decoctions of orange peel 
were found to be effective in curing scurvy in guinea pigs. 

The Dispensatory of the United States of America, 20th ed., p. 211. 

Hess, A. F., and Unger, L. }.:Proc. Soc. Exp. Biol, and Med., 15 (1918), p. 141. 



STATEMENT OF THE OWNERSHIP, MANAGEMENT, CERCtJlATION, ETC., REQIJIRED BY THE ACT 
OF CONGRESS OF AUGUST 24,1912 

Of The Journal of Home Economics published monthly at Baltimore, Maryland, for April 

1, 1919. 
State of Maryland! 
City of Baltimore J 

Before me, a notary public in and for the State and City aforesaid, personally appeared 
Keturah E. Baldwin, who, having been duly sworn according to law, deposes and says that 
she is the Business Editor of the Journal of Home Economics and that the following is, to 
the best of her knowledge and belief, a true statement of the ownership, management, etc., of 
the aforesaid publication for the date shown in the above caption, required by the Act of 
August 24, 1912, embodied in section 443, Postal Laws and Regulations, printed on the re- 
verse of this form, to wit: 

1. That the names and addresses of the publisher, editor, managing editor, and business 
managers are: 

Publisher: American Home Economics Association, Baltimore, Maryland. 
Editor: Mrs. Alice P. Norton, Baltimore, Maryland. 
Business Editor: Keturah E. Baldwin, Baltimore, ^Marjdand. 
Business Managers: None. 

2. That the owners are: American Home Economics .Association, 1211 Cathedral St., 
Baltimore, Md. 

3. That the known bondholders, mortgagees, and other security holders owning or hold- 
ing 1 per cent or more of total amount of bonds, mortgages, or other securities are: None. 

Keturah E. Baldwin, 
Business Editor. 
Sworn to and subscribed before me this 31st day of March, 1919. 

[seal] Edw. W. Baker, 

(My commission expires May, 1919.) 



BOOKS AND LITERATURE 



Housewifery. By L. Ray Baiderston. 

Philadelphia: J. B. LippLacott Company, 

1919, pp. 353. $2.00. By mail of the 

Journal, $2.15. 

In this volume of Lippincott's Home 
Manual Series entitled Housewifery, Miss 
Balderston has gathered together and organ- 
ized a great deal of valuable material on 
housewifery which she defines in the opening 
paragraph "as the business of the mistress 
of the family," 

The first chapter of the book has many 
good general suggestions on the organization 
of the house and household, stressing es- 
pecially the need and importance of good 
planning. 

The chapters on Plumbing, Heating, and 
Lighting cover, very fully for a short treatise, 
the care of refuse, heating and cooking appa- 
ratus, fuels, and illuminants. 

The last chapter on Suggestions for 
Teachers will prove extremely valuable to 
everyone who is presenting a course in house- 
wifery, no matter to what type of people or 
under what conditions. It is full of sug- 
gestions for all who deal with the subject — 
whether as a part of some other course or 
as a course by itself. 

The rest of the book deals with the stand- 
ards of choice for household furnishings, 
supplies, and equipment, and gives specific 
and clear directions for the care of the house 
and its furnishings. 

This volume, like the rest of this series, 
has an excellent bibUography after each 
chapter. It is freely and well illustrated. 

It is adapted for use as a textbook for 
college and normal students, and for special 
classes of older students. It will be an ex- 
cellent reference book for other groups of 
home ecomonics students and will be of 
great help in answering many of the questions 
which confront every housekeeper. 

Sarah J. MacLeod, 

Prati Institute. 



Economy in Food. By Mabel Teacher 

Wellman. Boston: Little, Brown and 

Company, 1918, pp. 36. $0.30. By mail 

of the Journal, $0.35. 

This little book of Miss WeUman's, though 

written during the war time, was so wisely 

conceived that it is as valuable now as then. 

Nearly all the suggestions are as practical 

today as before the war closed. It contains 

suggestions on economy in buying, economy 

in storing food, economy in serving, economy 

in planning meals, economy in recipes, 

economy in fuels. There are a few pages of 

typical recipes. 

The most valuable part of the book, 
however, is the table of comparative costs 
of 100-calorie portions. By an ingenious 
scheme, the table is made of permanent 
value. The cost for the 100-calorie portions 
is calculated on the prices of 1916 and 1917, 
but a factor is given that, multiplied by any 
price, will give the cost of 100 calories of the 
food purchased at that price. For example, 
the factor for bread is 0.085, and the cost of 
a 100 calorie portion of white bread at five 
cents a pound is given as $0.0043, or 0.085 X 
0.05. If the price is eight cents a pound, 
multiplying the factor 0.085 by 0.08 will 
give 0.0068, the cost of the 100-calorie portion 
of bread when the price is eight cents. 

Alice P. Norton. 

The Life of Ellen B. Richards. By Caro- 
OLiNE L. Hunt. Boston: Whitcomb and 
Barrows, 1918, pp. 330. Conservation 
Edition. $1.25. By mail of the Journal, 
$1.35. 

Many of us have read over and over again 
the satisfying life of the woman to whom for 
so long we looked for inspiration and help. 
We have asked our students to read it and 
have put it into the hands of young people as 
a record of a remarkable life, whose value and 
effectiveness was set out in a remarkable 
229 



230 



THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS 



[May- 



way by Miss Hunt. We welcome this new 
edition, now that the first edition is ex- 
hausted, and are grateful to the publishers 
for offering it for so low a price. We have 
been reminded again and again of Mrs. 
Richards during the days of the war and 
during these times when home economics 
has been able to aid in the solution of so 
many problems. We have been sure that 
she would rejoice in the opportunities of- 
fered. We have wished for her wise advice 
to help us make the most of such oppor- 
tunities. As we read again this record of her 
work, we are impressed anew by her almost 
prophetic vision, and by the many ways in 
which she was ahead of her times. "We are 
trying to save the resources of our country 
by showing how cheap food may be good 
food," was written, not in 1918, but by Mrs. 
Richards in 1885. 

This new edition of her life should have 
an even larger circulation than did the 
former. 

Alice P. Norton. 

Food Saving and Food Sharing. By EvA 
March Tappan and Others. New York: 
Doubleday, Page and Company, 1918, 
pp. 102. $0.24. By mail of the Journal, 
$0.30. 

This little book was written under the di- 
rection of the United States Food Adminis- 
tration in cooperation with the Department 
of Agriculture. Miss Tappan was assisted by 
Mrs. Norton, editor of the Journal of Hosie 
Economics; Henrietta W. Calvin, Specialist 
in Home Economics, Bureau of Education; 
C. F. Langworthy, Chief of the Office of 
Home Economics, Department of Agri- 
culture; and Sarah Louise Arnold, Dean of 
Simmons College. This book was also af>- 
proved by H. C. Sherman of Columbia 
University. 

With this authorship it goes without saying 
that the book is a mine of correct informaUon. 
It is written for use with children to present 
the facts of nutrition simply and interest- 
ingly, and to show why food saving and shar- 
ing are necessary now as well as during the 
war. 



The make-up of the book is excellent. It 
is simply bound, with the Food Adminis- 
tration seal on the cover and is attractively 
illustrated. In fact it is the kind of book 
that the child will carry home and the older 
people wUl pick up and read, so that its mes- 
sage will reach more than the child. 

After an introductory chapter, the next 
sLx chapters are devoted to the development 
of the idea of children going to an immense 
world food fair in which the appropriate 
foods are grouped into booths according to 
the part that those foods play in body nutri- 
tion. The idea is a clever one, probably 
taken from the arrangement at the Chicago 
Food Show during the Conservation period, 
in which the effectiveness of this grouping 
was well proved. The following chapters 
tell why Europe is hungry, where the food of 
the world is, what we did about it during the 
war and what we must still do. The final 
chapter brings the lesson of saving home to 
the child. 

The selection of material is excellent and 
the facts are interestingly presented. A 
summary of points worth remembering at 
the end of each chapter makes the message 
all the clearer. One wonders, however, if 
the book is intentionally addressed now to 
older, now to younger children. There 
seems to be some unevenness in the writing. 
It is to be regretted that there is not a whole 
chapter on cost, instead of having that side 
of the subject tucked into the chapter on 
Fats. Some parents may think that, in the 
chapter on Hungry Europe, the book comes 
too near teaching hate of the enemy in such 
sentences as "the Germans set to work de- 
liberately to do as much harm as possible." 
"Everyone knows . . . how they (the 
Germans) murdered and tortured and 
looted and destroyed," etc. 

The elementary teacher should welcome 
this book with joy, for nowhere else will she 
find this material stated in language suited 
to young children, and much of the material 
is of permanent value in the teaching of food 
work. The ridiculously low price of the 
book will make it available everywhere. 
Mabel T. Wellm.vn, 
Indiana University. 



NEWS FROM THE FIELD 



The New England Home Economics 
Association. The December meeting was 
held at Simmons College. The general 
topic was "The Message of the Hour," and 
the speakers were Mrs. Nathaniel Thayer, 
Chairman of the Women's Committee of 
the Council of National Defense, Massachu- 
setts Division; Martha Van Rensselaer, 
U. S. Food Administration. The latter 
said "Our program is one of Thrift; to 
waste is wrong and uneconomic." "Home 
Economics leaders and teachers must get 
the community idea because citizenship is 
only an e.xtension of our home ideas." Mrs. 
Thayer urged the holding together, in the 
same spirit that was maintained throughout 
the war, to do whatever presented itself. 
"Americanization is one of the greatest and 
most vital problems in this country." 

The January meeting also held at Sim- 
mons College, presented a program of Thrift. 
"The Budget for the Individual" was 
discussed by S. Agnes Donham of the 
Garland School of Homemaking, and 
"Thrift in the Household as a part of the 
National Savings Campaign of 1919," by 
S. Maria Elliott, Assistant Professor of 
Household Economics, Simmons CoUege. 
Miss Elliott gave a report of the conference 
at Washington, and indicated lines of action 
for the teacher and homemaker. 

The February meeting was devoted to 
child welfare. "Child Welfare and the 
Work of the Children's Bureau" was pre- 
sented by Dr. Dorothy Reed Mendenhall, 
Children's Bureau, U. S. Department of 
Labor; and "Existing Agencies for Child 
Conservation Work in Massachusetts" by 
Dr. Merrill E. Champion, Director of the 
Division of Hygiene, State Department of 
Health. 

At the March meeting the household 
budget was discussed by Miss Donham, as a 



continuation of her series; and Dr. Frederic 
W. Howe, of the Framingham Normal 
School, led a general discussion of problems 
of interest to home economics teachers of 
today. 

The ofiScers of the association are: Presi- 
dent, Mrs. Schuyler F. Herron, 383 Har- 
vard St., Cambridge, Mass.; Corresponding 
Secretary, Mrs. R. Harold Brown, 266 
Brookline Ave., Boston, Mass.; Recording 
Secretary, Helen E. Lockwood, Simmons 
College, Boston, Mass.; Treasurer, Alice W. 
Clement, 275 Warren St., Roxburj', Mass.; 
Councilor, Laura Comstock, Amherst, Mass. 

The Yonkers Home Economics Asso- 
ciation has had as speakers, at its monthly 
meetings. Commissioner Dillon, Mayor 
Wallin, Dr. Waldron of the Bureau of Child 
Hygiene, Mrs. Owen Kildare, Mrs. V. 
Everit Macy, and Miss Cora Winchell, 
Dr. Benjamin R. Andrews spoke at a public 
meeting held with the Chamber of Com- 
merce. The association published two food 
bulletins, held a series of weekly conferences 
for housewives, and gave demonstrations in 
caiming and drying, fireless cookery, and 
conservation of clothing. The past year 
shows a steady growth of membership from 
ten to one hundred and fifty. Mrs. Jacob 
Emery is the newly elected chairman. 

The American Dietetic Association. 

At a meeting of the E.xecutive Committee, 
January 22, 1919, it was decided to accept 
the invitation of the American Hospital 
Association to hold the next annual meeting 
with them in Cincinnati, September 8-12, 
1919. 

Persons eligible to active membership are: 
Graduates of at least a two year course in 
home economics, from a recognized school; 
graduates of a one year course in home eco- 
nomics (prior to June 1917), who, following 
231 



232 



THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS 



[May- 



graduation have had one year of successful 
experience in dietetic work; research work- 
ers who have contributed to the advance- 
ment of dietetics; practising physicians in 
good standing; and persons whose special 
work is allied with dietetics. 

The annual dues are S2.00. Application 
for membership should be made to the 
secretary, Miss E. M. Geraghty, New Haven 
Hospital, New Haven, Conn. 

The New York Association of Die- 
titians held their Annual Meeting in Feb- 
ruary in the Nurses Training School Hall, 
New York Post Graduate Hospital. 

Among many items discussed during the 
year were the following: Courses for Pupil 
Dietitians, Courses in Dietetics for Nurses, 
Canteen Work, Food Problems in Russia, 
New Text Books, New Ideas in Institutional 
Equipment. 

The membership for the year showed an 
increase from fifty-two to seventy, including 
an honor roll of seventeen, eleven of whom 
have seen foreign service. Those elected 
to honorary membership are: Miss Isabel 
Ely Lord, Miss Emma Gunther, Miss Ade- 
laide Nutting, and Mrs. Mary S. Rose. 

The new ofticers for the coming year are: 
President, Eleanor Wells, Teachers College; 
Corresponding Secretary, Charlotte Addi- 
son, New York Post Graduate Hospital; 
Recording Secretary, Alice Penrose, Central 
Branch, Y. W. C. A. 

The Home Economics Department of 
the University of South Dakota im- 
proved its great opportunity to help during 
the war, each member giving most willingly 
of her time and energy. 

Professor Eva R. Robinson, who became 
Mrs. N. E. Dawes on February 14, was made 
Director of Home Economics for South 
Dakota by the Food Administration, and 
gave much time to the work of Food Conser- 
vation. A small bulletin of Food Conserva- 
tion Dishes was prepared immediately, and 
later, with the help of Miss Ruetta Day, 
the Timely Cook Book was published. 



When the S. A. T. C. was organized in the 
University, before the new barracks were 
ready, the food laboratory was turned into a 
cafeteria, and Miss Robinson and Miss 
Day, assisted by some town ladies, served 
meals to 80 men for 10 days. They then 
organized and conducted the barracks 
kitchen for three weeks, feeding about 200 a 
day. During the epidemic of influenza, 
meals were sent from the department until 
the hospital kitchens were equipped and the 
Red Cross helpers were organized into 
working squads. 

In the clothing department Miss Mae 
Wilson designed the famous S. D. University 
comfort kit, and over 250 of these were made, 
either by students of the department or 
through Miss Wilson's efforts. The sewing 
classes under Mrs. Edith Abell made 100 
money belts, 40 hospital bed shirts, 60 suits 
of pajamas and 50 hospital bags. Mrs. 
Abell also conducted classes in knitting, and 
gave instruction in the surgical dressings in 
the Red Cross room. 

The Home Economics Section of the 
Indiana State Teachers Association has 
been organized for several years, but not 
until .-^pril, 1917, were plans perfected for 
a definite and active organization. 

The committee on membership and or- 
ganization drafted a constitution and by- 
laws which were unanimously adopted at 
the regular business meeting in October, 
1917. \ membership drive resulted in 
seventy paid up active members. 

The Executive Committee secured the 
services of Mrs. Henrietta Calvin from the 
Bureau of Education, Washington, D. C, 
to address the Section at the annual meeting 
in October, 1918. The regular 1918 meeting 
of the State Teachers Association was post- 
poned and later cancelled, due to the epi- 
demic of influenza. 

The Home Economics Section especially 
has suffered on account of this irregularity 
because plans were being developed which 
would greatly strengthen the Section and 
extend its influence. 



1919] 



KEWS FROM THE FIELD 



233 



The Institution Economics Section of 
the .\merican Home Economics Association 
will meet at the University of Wisconsin, 
Madison, June 9-13. 

Madison is beautifully located in a lake 
countn", and will afford opportunity for en- 
joying the afternoons wliich are left open for 
conferences, boat rides, drives, and tramps. 

The forenoons and e\'enings will be de- 
voted to the program which includes papers 
and discussions on the following subjects: 
Courses of Study for Institutional Eco- 
nomics; Dormitorj' Administration with 
Emphasis on All Phases of the Work; 
Cafeteria Management in Both the College 
and Commercial Worlds, with Special Em- 
phasis on Marketing and Organization; 
School Lunch Problems; Restaurant and 
CoSee-Shop Management; Hospital Ad- 
ministration; New Phases of Institution 
Work, such as Super\"ising Housekeepers in 
Wealthy Homes and Camp Directors. 

The program will be conducted by ad- 
ministrators and teachers in colleges and 
schools, by dietitians, and by others actively 
engaged in the business world. It is ex- 
pected that there will be some exhibits of in- 
stitutional furnishings and equipment. 

For program and particulars as to accom- 
modations, address Miss Ekie P. Leonard, 
Chairman, Chadboume Hall, Madison, Wis. 

The Institution Economics Section will 
also present a program at the Annual 
Meeting of the A. H. E. .\. 

The National Conference of Social 
Work meets at .\tlantic City June 1 to 8, 
and much of its program should prove of 
distinct value to the home economics 
worker. The Social Work Committee of the 
.American Home Economics .Association is 
hoping to arrange several informal discus- 
sions of problems of social work in home 
economics. Home economics workers who 
are planning to attend the Conference are 
urged to write the Chairman of the Social 
Work Committee, Miss Emma .\. Winslow, 
105 East 22nd Street, New York City, or 
to get in touch with her at the Conference. 

Copies of the Conference program may be 
obtained from Mr. William T. Cross, Sec- 
retary, 315 Plymouth Court, Chicago. 



Practice in Homemaking Adjustments. 
The Committee on Home Economics of the 
New York Charity Organization Society is 
offering to a limited group of women, trained 
in home economics, the opportunity of doing 
practice work in the adjustment of various 
tj'pes of homemaking problems. A special 
course is to be given under the direction of 
the Committee from June 9 to July 5 of this 
year, and Teachers College, Columbia Uni- 
versity, has already arranged to give both 
graduate and undergraduate credit for the 
course, the amount varying according to the 
quality and amount of the student's work as 
indicated by the reports of the supervisors 
and the student's diary record of work 
performed. 

Four days a week are to be spent in care- 
fully planned field work with one of a group 
of specially selected social agencies in New 
York City. One day a week is to be used for 
lectures, discussions, and \'isits to institu- 
tions and social agencies doing work of im- 
mediate interest in connection with home 
economics; and one-half day a week for 
round table discussions of field work expe- 
riences. 

Membership in the group is open to col- 
lege juniors as well as graduates. No fees 
are to be charged for the training to be 
given. The size of the group is to be lim- 
ited to twenty-five, and effort will be made 
to select members who will represent a va- 
riety of colleges and a variety of previous 
experiences, and who mil 7)robably derive the 
maximum benefit from their field work. 

Miss Emma Winslow is to have charge of 
the work of the group under the direction 
of a special Sub-committee of the Committee 
on Home Economics, consisting of Miss 
Cora M. Winchell of Teachers College, 
Chairman, Dr. Mary Swartz Rose of 
Teachers College, Miss Isabel P21y Lord and 
Miss Jessie A. Long of Pratt Institute, Mr. 
Porter R. Lee of the New York School of 
Philanthropy, and Miss J. C. Colcord of the 
New York Charity Organization Society. 
Further information concerning the plans for 
the course may be secured from Miss Wins- 
low or from any member of the Sub-com- 
mittee. 



234 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [May 

BLUE RIDGE, NORTH CAROLINA 

You are on your way to the Twelfth Annual Meeting of the American 
Home Economics Association, June 23 to 28, 1919. The long train 
noses its way between the rounded green peaks of the Blue Ridge mountains 
and comes to a stop as the porter calls: "AH out for Black Mountain." The 
taxicab drivers deafen you with their insistent: "Fifty cents to Blue Ridge. 
Take your suitcases." A Uttle scattered village lies about the station. 
Half a mile to the east begins a long steep slope of solid green, broken half 
way up the mountain side by the clear white outline of a big comfortable- 
looking building, Robert E. Lee Hall, which marks j'our destination. 

The last part of the drive brings you under the trees and along the banks 
of rhododendron that make Blue Ridge a paradise of beauty in June. Then 
you come out into the open grounds about the buildings, where you may 
view the sweep of the vaUey below and peak after peak of blue mountain 
beyond. You register, and are led away to a cottage clinging to the moun- 
tain side above, or snuggled away by the stream below the main buildings. 
If your reservation was late you may have to take a less romantic and 
slightly more expensive room in Robert E. Lee Hall. 

The plant belongs to the Blue Ridge Association, and is operated primarily 
for the Y. M. and Y. W. C. A. The student conference this year closes June 
22; consequently not many rooms will be available before Monday, June 23. 
By all means plan to stay the entire week, and longer, if possible. The rate 
is $12.00 to §15.00 per week for room and board. Most rooms accommodate 
two, but single rooms may be had. The Blue Ridge Association aims simply 
to pay expenses, not to make a profit. 

The cottages have 4 to 8 rooms, a sleeping porch, and one or two bath rooms 
with hot and cold water. One may sleep indoors or on the porch, — it is de- 
lightfully cool everywhere. The cot beds are comfortable; all furnishings 
are very simple. One should plan for much out of doors tramping and driv- 
ing, and bring clothing suitable for the mountain trails. 

Delightful drives may be arranged for without exorbitant charge. Bilt- 
more and Asheville are about twenty miles away, Henderson ville. Chimney 
Rock, and other famous spots in the "Land of the Sky" are farther, but within 
driving distance. Montreal and Ridgecrest, headquarters, respectively, of 
Presbyterian and Baptist conferences, are each about six miles away. 

The Southern Home Economics Association is to have separate programs 
on Tuesday and Thursday evenings; at other times it will make itself a part 
of the American Association. The Southern Association extends a most 
sincere welcome to the American Association and particularly to those mem- 
bers who have not before been in the South. 

The full program of the meetmgs, including the section meetings, will be 
sent as soon as possible to all members of the A. H. E. A. The Extension 
Section has planned programs for June 26 and 27, and the other Sections 
will arrange theirs later. 

Reservation should be made not later than Jime 10, if possible, to the Blue 
Ridge Association, Blue Ridge, N. C. They should specify Cottage or Hall. 
Groups desiring to be together in cottages should specify this clearly in mak- 
ing reservations. Mail and telegrams should be sent to Blue Ridge, but rail- 
road tickets read to Black Mountain. Be sure to ask for tourist rates, as 
whatever rates are available for summer resorts will apply. 



Vol. XI. No. 6 June, 1919 

THE 

Journal of Home Economics 

For those interested in Homemaking, Institution Management, 
and Educational Work in Home Economics 

Mes. Auce p. Norton, Ediler Keturah E. Baldwin. Business Editor 

Editorial Board 
Mis. Mabv H. Abel C. F. Langworthv Ethel«-yn Miller Ruth Wheelee Amy Danieis 

Ex-Officio Members — Edna N. White, President American Home Economics Association 
Elsie Leonard, Ciiairman Institution Economics Section 
Katherine Blunt, Chairman Science Section 
Agnes E. Harris, Claairman Extension Education Section 
Grace Denny, Chairman Textile Section 

Collaborators — The Officers, Members of the Council, and Advisors 



CONTENTS 

When, How ^Iuch, and to Whom Should Home Economics Be Taught . Carlotla C. Greer 235 

Textile Lessons for Homemakers Grace G. Denny 241 

Effect of Pack and Depth of Water Bath Upon Interior Temperature of Jars in Cold 

Pack Canning Carrie E. Castle 246 

An S. a. T. C. Diet Kitchen Jessie Whilacre 252 

A Xew Progr.\m for the Promotion of Home Economics in the Schools . Edna N. White 261 

Editorial 270 

Books and Literature ^ 273 

Pamphlets Recehed 276 

Bebliogbaphv of Home Economics 277 

News from the Field 279 



The JotjRNAL of Home Economics is published monthly by the American Home Economics Association. 

J2.00 A YEAR. FOREIGN $2.35. CANADIAN $2.20. SINGLE COPIES 25 CENTS 

HOW TO REMIT. Remittances should be sent by Check, Express Order or Postal Money Order, payable to the 
American Home Economics A.ssociation. Currency, unless mailed in a registered letter, is at the sender's risk. 

NOTICE. When payment is made by check no receipt will be sent unless requested. 

CHANGE IN ADDRESS. Notice of change in address should be sent Two Weeks before the date of issue on which 
the change is to take effect. The subscriber's Old Address should be clearly indicated in addition to the New Address. 

AMERICAN HOME ECONOMICS ASSOCIATION 1211 Cathedral St., Baltimore, Md. 

The Journal of Home Econouics is on sale at John Wanamaker's, Philadelphia; The Old Comer Book Store, Boston; 
A. C. McClurfi's, Chicago; Baltimore Kcv.s Company, Baltimore; Woodward and Lothrop, Washington 



The American Home Economics Association 

ni>f-Awi7vn Dec 31 1908 Incorporated May 12. 1909. . . .. • 

Th. American Home^EcoaS ASodation „ists for the purpose of bringing together those interested m tte bettenng 
of conditions in the home, the school, the public institution, and the community ,„. . u,,,,,,:. 

Annual Dues: Active $2.00; Asaociate Sl.OO. O nly active member s receive the quarterly buUetm. 

President 

EDNA N. WHITE. 

Ohio State University, ColumbM 



Vice-Presoients 

ISABEL BEVIER. 

Univenity of Illinois. Urban* 



FLORA ROSE, 

Cornell University, Ithaca, N. Y. 

Secretary 

CORA M. WINCHELL, 

Teachers College. New York City 

The Executive Committee is composed of the following members: The P'«='''"J' '^'^' .''j 
urer, the retiring president, and five additional membere of the Council, chosen by the Coui 
Anna Barrows. Alice Loomis. Mary E. Matthews. Catharine Mulligan. 



EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE 



C. F. LANGWORTm', 
U, S. Dept. Agr., Washington, D. C. 

Treascrer 

H. GALE TURPIN, 

Baltimore Trust Company. Baltimore 



e-presidents. secretary, treas- 
ril, viz.: Sarah Louise Arnold 



Sarah ! nmsE Arnold 

binimons College, 

Boston. Mass. 

Isabel Ely Lord. 
Pratt Institute, 

Brooklyn, N.Y. 

Mrs. Henrietta Calvin, 

U. S. Bureau of Education, 
Washington. D. C. 
Fannie Twiss, 

Normal School, Regina, 
Saskatchewan, Canada 



COUNCILORS AT LARGE 

TERMS EXPIRE 1919 
Josephine T. Berry, 
University Farm. 
St. Paul, Minn. 

Catharine A. Mcluoan, 
CoDverse College, 

Spartanburg, S. C. 

TERMS EXPIRE 1920 
AucE Looms, 

University of Nebraska. 
Lincoln. Neb. 

Edna N. White, 

University of Ohio, 
Columbus. Ohio. 



Helen Louise Johnson, 

37 E. 28th St., 

N. Y. C. 



Mary E, Sweeney, 

University of Kentucky 
Lexington. Ky. 



Ephe Raitt. 

Uoiveisitv of Washington, 
Seattle. Wash. 

Emeline WmrcoKB. 

University of Montana. 
Missoula. Mont. 

Euua WresLow. 

Teachers College. 
Neiv York City. 
Ada Field, 

Georire Peabody College, 
Nashville, Tenn. 

Maude Moschie, 
Sacramento, Cal. 

Florence Ward, 
U S Dept. Agr., 

Washington, D. C. 



Mrs' Charles W. Greene, 
14 Columbia Ave., 

Columbia, Mo 



Carlotta Greer. 

E. Tech. High School, 
Cleveland. Ohio. 



E. V. McCollum, 

Johns Hopkins Unversiity 
Baltimore, Md. 



TERMS EXPIRE 1921 
Roth Wardall. 

University of Iowa, 
Iowa City. Iowa 

Mary E. Matthews. 
Purdue University. 
LaFayette, Ind. 
TERMS EXPIRE 1922 
Jenny H. Snow, 

Su ,'v'r Household Arts. 
Chicago, 111. 

Grace Denny, 

Univ. of Washington, 
Seattle. 
TERMS EXPIRE 1923 
Alice Ravenhill, 
23 Dallas Ave., 
\'ictoria, B. C. 
Mary Gearing 

University of Texas, 
Austin, Texas. 
SECTIONAL COUNCILORS . 

Institution Economics Section: Mrs. Melvil Dewey, Lake Placid Club, N. Y.; Elsie Leonard. Univ. of Wis. 

Science Section: Katharine Bldnt, Univ. of Chicago. _ _ „ ,, , ,ir -r^ii,! .,— 

Extension Section: Aones Ellen H.krris. Fla. State Collegefor Women Tallahassee 

Textile Section: Grace Denny, Univ. of V\ash., Seattle. 

REPRESENTATIVE COUNCILORS u . .w a ■ 

One representative councilor may be chosen by each affiliated society, provided the councilor is a member of the Amen. 

Home Economics Association. 

TRUSTEES OF THE ELLEN H. RICHARDS MEMORIAL FUND 
TERMS EXPIRE JANUARY 1. 1920 
Mrs. Annie Dewey. 
Lake Placid Club, 

Lake Placid, N. Y 
Bertha M. Terrill, 
Univ. of Vermont, 
Burlington. Vt. 
TFRMS EXPIRE JANUARY 1. 1921 
Elizabeth Condit. 
Pratt listii'.le. 

Brooklyn. N.Y. 
Marion Talhot, 

of Chicago, 



Martha Van Rensselaer, 
Cornell University. 
Ithaca. N. V. 



Mrs. Mary H. Abel, 
Woodlawn, Md. 



Anna Barrows. 

Teachers College, 
New York City. 



Robert H. Richards. 

Mass. Inst, of Technology 
Boston, Mass. 



Eenja«in R. A^rnpEws, 
Teachers C'oll'.c;.'. 
New York, 

(Secril.iry and Treasure 



rhiL.„ 

TERMS EXPIRE JANUARY 1. 1922 

Dr. Kathari.ne Blunt, M 

University of Chicago 
Dr. Looise Stanley, 

Federal Board for Vocational Education 
Washin-lon, D. C. 



:s. Henrietta W. Calvin, 
Bureau of Education, 
Washington. D. C. 



THE 

Journal of Home Economics 

Vol. XI JUNE, 1919 No. 6 

WHEN, HOW MUCH, AND TO WHOM SHOULD HOME 
ECONOMICS BE TAUGHT?^ 

CARLOTTA C. GREER 
East Technical High School, Cleveland 

Formerly there was one type of organization for the twelve-year 
course of the public school, viz., the elementary grades from the iirst 
to the eighth, and the high school from the ninth to the twelfth. Within 
the past few years this division has, in many schools, changed. Because 
of a better understanding of the mental processes and abilities of boys 
and girls a number of educators have thought it best to place the division 
between the elementarj-' and high school course at an earlier date. The 
junior high school has come into being as a result of this idea. Hence, 
in many schools, there are the elementary grades, and the junior and 
senior high schools. This is often called the 6-3-3 plan. Though this 
plan of division has not been adopted everywhere, it is becoming more 
and more popular, and we will base our discussion upon problems 
arising from such an organization. 

The first questions to be considered are: 

Should home economics be given in the elementary grades, i.e., in 
grades one to six, where the interests and activities of the child are 
largely those of play? Would a course offered in these years justify the 
efforts of the pupils and teacher? 

' Presented at the meeting of the American Home Economics Association in connection 
with the Division of Superintendence, N. E. A., Chicago, February, 1919. This paper 
was the introduction to a Round Table discussion on its topic. It was therefore prepared 
to raise questions for discussion, not to give the writer's opinion. 

235 



236 THE JOXIRNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [June 

If home economics is offered in the fifth and sLxth years, which sub- 
ject, — food or clothing — should be given first? Are the larger move- 
ments of cooking better adapted to the abihty of the younger child than 
the smaller motions of sewing? 

The plan of adapting school work to the needs of children in particular 
conditions or communities is one of the general accepted principles of 
modern education. Is there in the elementary grades any special type 
of pupil who needs a course in home economics even though the subject 
is not offered generally to all elementary pupils? In foreign districts 
where many pupils are over age, would a course in home economics be 
advisable? 

The expense of equipping schools for household arts must be taken 
into consideration. If home economics is to be offered in the junior 
and senior high schools, does the expense of equipment preclude the 
teaching of the subject in grades below the seventh? 

Is compulsory work in home economics generally advisable? If so, 
in what grades should it form a part of every child's education? Is 
the junior high school the place for such a procedure? 

The abnormal conditions existing in the industrial world during the 
past year or two have affected the boy and girl of wage-earning years, 
and there have been many high school girls and boys lured into industry-. 
In certain schools courses in homemaking have not been as popular, 
among the senior high school girls, as commercial courses, and the ques- 
tion arises whether the demands of the business world have made home- 
making activities less appealing to the girl? 

In analyzing this condition, it is possible that we need to take into 
consideration a factor other than induatrial pressure. In some localities, 
the estabhshment of the junior high school and this country's partici- 
pation in the war took place in the same period. It may be that the 
junior high school — and not changed industrial conditions — has affected 
the home economics course of the senior high school. To make the 
latter consideration specific: Will a well-rounded course in home eco- 
nomics in the junior high school affect the number of pupils electing work 
in the senior high school? Will the pupils feel that the junior high school 
gives them sufficient work in this subject? 

It is a fact that a greater number of pupils will be reached by placing 
home economics courses in the junior rather than in the senior high 
school. Since it is a subject of great importance in the life of all girls 
and since it fills an important place in democratic education, the matter 



1919] TO WHOM SHOULD HOME ECONOMICS BE TAUGHT 237 

of reaching the greatest numbers should be a consideration well worth 
regarding. On the other hand, certain distinct advantages might be 
gained by placing home economics in the senior high school, particularly 
in the eleventh and twelfth grades. By the time the pupU is a junior 
or a senior, she will have studied certain of the sciences which aid in 
elucidating home economics and which make it possible to present cer- 
tain phases of household arts as applied science. Because of the more 
mature ability of the eleventh and twelfth grade pupil, she would be 
able to comprehend more fully the intricate social and economic prob- 
lems pertaining to the home. 

One of the serious problems of secondary education is to hold pupils 
in school until their prescribed course has been completed. All earnest 
educators are considering this question seriously. Can the home eco- 
nomics course do anything to solve this problem? If so, what is the best 
arrangement of work? 

These questions might be considered: 

Since home economics, especially food study and garment-making, 
is an attractive subject to most girls, will the placing of household arts 
in the junior high tend to hold the girls in school during the period when 
they are so apt to leave it? 

On the other hand, if these subjects are placed in the senior high 
school, will the anticipation of an interesting activity and study hold 
the girl in school? 

In former days very much was said about logical courses of study, 
logical development of a subject, and the logical methods of education. 
For the elementary and secondary school many educators are believing that 
logical methods should be supplanted by the psychological. In his 
"Democracy and Education" Dewey explains the difference in the two 
methods. He says: "The chronological method which begins with the 
experience of the learner and develops from that the proper modes of 
scientific treatment is often called the 'psychological' method in dis- 
tinction from the logical method of the expert or specialist. The ap- 
parent loss of time involved is more than made up by the superior under- 
standing and vital interest secured. What the pupil learns he at least 
understands." 

In discussing when home economics should be offered to pupils or 
where it should be placed in a course of study, it may be well to consider 
the relative positions of home economics and related sciences in a cur- 
riculum, — to consider whether the logical or psychological plan should 



238 THE JOXJRNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [June 

be followed in arranging these subjects. Are we to say that logically- 
certain sciences, especially chemistry and physics, should precede all 
food study? Since it would without doubt be unwise to offer chemistry 
to the elementarj^ pupil or even to the girl in the junior high school, 
by this plan no food study could be given to a girl until she was some- 
what advanced in school work. Would it be well then, to eliminate 
instruction in processes of cooking from the elementary school and the 
junior high school? 

On the other hand, if food study were offered without chemistry and 
physics as prerequisites, might not instruction in processes of cooking 
serve as an effective background on which interest in chemistry could 
be aroused? If the pupil finds, for example, that she can make more 
tasty and better appearing apple sauce in a granite rather than an iron 
pan in the food class, would the study of the action of certain acids on 
metals simply be a continuation of her experience? It would seem that 
by one plan, certain phases of home economics might be taught as ap- 
plied science; by the other, an effective background on which to base a 
study (usually less interesting to the average pupil) might be established. 
May not home economics be an aid to science as well as science to home 
economics? 

In discussing the question of how much home economics should be 
oft'ered in a public school course, the following questions may well be 
considered : 

What should be the minimum and maximum number of periods per 
week devoted to household arts in the elementary school and in the 
junior and senior high schools? 

One of the most insistent ideas of modern educators is that the pupil 
should be taught not merely to get him ready to live, but that he be 
taught to live. It is thought the processes of present growth will afford 
the best training for future needs. If the high school girl is living in 
her home, is she in immediate need of such training as will help her 
contribute her share to the workings of her home? 

What are the demands of the household upon the girl that she may 
live in her home? It may be that one of her duties is to wash dishes, or 
set the table, or help in the cooking of foods, or aid in the serving of 
meals, or spend her allowance wisely. Is she then greatly in need of 
training for these activities? Will instruction in manipulative processes 
of homekeeping tend to make her a more successful member of her 
household? WiU instruction in the selection of materials and the spend- 
ing of money prepare her for more "worthy home membership?" 



1919] TO W^OM SHOULD HOME ECONOMICS BE TAUGHT 239 

If one of the aims of home economics work is that it should function 
in the home, it would seem that the public school could do much to 
realize its aim by planning for the performance of household activities 
in the home. The question then arises, how many hours of home work 
or how many home projects should be required of pupils? Would a 
minimimi of two hours per week or a maximum of eight hours be a wise 
requirement? It has been the custom in many schools to require home 
■work of pupils in the so-called academic studies. Would it be well so 
to arrange pupils' programs that home work be required in home econom- 
ics, but not in academic studies? Time for the preparation in school of 
the latter subjects would, of course, be arranged. 

To whom shall home economics be taught? The subject has always 
been considered as belonging primarily to girls, and the girl does have 
a special need which should be suppUed by such work. But does not 
the boy need home economics or at least certain phases of it? When 
the school boy and the business man are observed during the selection 
of their lunches, it is most evident that both need to be taught something; 
of food values, food composition, and combination. The average boy 
selects his food with Httle thought other than that of flavor. 

Since the budget is so closely related to successful home Hfe, it would 
seem that not only women but men, not only girls but boys need to 
become interested in wise expenditure of the income. Is this phase of 
home economics one of the needs of the school boy? 

It is generally conceded that the woman of the household bears a 
great responsibihty in creating and maintaining the atmosphere of 
home life, — the home life that affords an opportunity for the individual 
expression of each member of the family. Does the man of a household 
share in this responsibility? If so, is it possible to teach him the art 
of homemaking? Is it possible even to teach the girl the art of home- 
making? The following is another's opinion regarding this matter :2 

"The home making process is profoundly afi'ected by a broad range 
of human relationships and contacts with the outside world. In conse- 
quence the individuahty of a person's home is in direct proportion to 
the richness and variety of these outside influences. . . . The 
satisfying qualities of home depend rather upon the abihty of members 
of the household to cooperate in an enjoyable and harmonious use of 
their free time. The school can do much to further the development 

2 Alice C. Boughton in "Cleveland Education Survey, Household Arts and School 
Lunches." 



240 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [June 

of such ability in every indi\adual, but the school cannot accomplish 
it alone. This eliminates education for homemaking as a separate 
school problem and a distinct school subject." 

According to this idea, it is impossible to teach the indefinable art 
of home making to either boys or girls. Whether or not we accept this 
opinion it is unquestionably true that the study of many phases of home 
economics will be valuable to the boy and aid in his own personal de- 
velopment of the art of homemaking. 

The matter of housing in our cities and towns was a serious problem 
during the war. Funds and workers were not available for building 
houses fast enough to supply the demands of our population. At the 
present time, the number of houses is still inadequate and doubtless 
will be until it is possible for the money market to supply sufficient 
funds for the construction of homes. An understanding of the main- 
tenance of proper sanitary conditions in a home by the householder as 
well as the housekeeper would doubtless be especially valuable during 
the period of dwelling shortage. 

If it is deemed wise to offer home economics to boys, should the same 
type of course be given them as is offered to girls? Should a home 
economics course for boys embrace administrative, economic, and soci- 
ologic problems rather than manipulative processes? 

Most persons interested in modern education have believed that a 
wise (i.e. sane, not strained) correlation of our so-called academic and 
industrial or technical studies is desirable. Teacliing problems in 
mathematics which involve data secured from home activities and whose 
solution furnishes valuable information regarding household manage- 
ment; using home problems for themes in the English class; making 
applications in chemistry and physics which elucidate processes in the 
administration of a home, — these are all valuable practices in education. 
But teaching of this kind involves work not only for the home economics 
teacher, but for teachers of mathematics, English, and science. If the 
mathematics teacher is to do effective teaching in applied problems in 
home economics, he must understand something of home economics; 
if the chemistry teacher is to make applications in chemistry which 
involve matters of the girl's interest and experience, he must also under- 
stand something of home economics. 

If the courses offered in our public schools to all girls are to center 
about phases of homemaking, does it not seem necessary that all teachers 
of the elementary and secondary girl should have at least a general 



1919] TEXTILE LESSONS FOR HOMEMAKERS 241 

survey of household arts? For the teaching of such subjects as chemis- 
tr>', or other sciences, and art, should not teachers have specific training 
in certain phases of home economics? 

If in the school of tomorrow, all pupils, — both boys and girls — are 
given some training in the economics of the home, all our teachers of 
the future will have something of a household arts background, and the 
need of teachers of subjects other than household arts for training in 
this subject will then be satisfied. 



TEXTILE LESSONS FOR HOMEMAKERS 

GRACE G. DENNY 

Universily of Wasltingloii, Seattle 

A series of lessons on purchasing fabrics and household textiles was 
recently given a group of housekeepers through the services of the Home 
Economics department of the University of Washington. 

The choice of subjects was made by the women of the group from the 
following list suggested by the teacher: — sheeting, towelHng, blankets, 
apron goods, dress fabrics, materials for underwear, materials for juve- 
nile play clothes, trimming for underwear, wool dress goods, and the 
following ready made garments: house dresses, muslin underwear, 
lingerie waists, girls' middies, children's rompers, hosiery, and boys' 
suits. The Hst includes purchases typical of the average household. 

The women of this group were most deeply interested in learning how 
to choose towelling, blankets, and dress goods. 

The lessons were conducted as follows. 

I. HOW TO JUDGE TOWELLING 

Fifteen 1 yard lengths of towelhng (suitable for tea towels and hand 
towels or face towels) were bought at a local store. Each piece was 
labelled with the current price and a number. The range in quality 
represented those grades most frequently sold in the store. 

Each woman was given a copy of the accompanying score card' and 
an opportunity to examine the samples. With no explanation as to the 
relative merits of the towelling or the composition of each piece, the 

' See page 245. 



242 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [June 

women were asked to put down estimates of each towel in the column 
corresponding to the number on that towel. Two score cards were 
filled; one for tea towels and one for face or hand towels. (Bath towels 
were considered incidentally in this lesson.) Since many women use 
flour or sugar sacks for tea towels, samples of these with prices and also 
the unbleached muslin sold for this purpose were included. 

The four headings given on the score card are usually conceded most 
important in the selection of towelling. The points under each are 
merely explanatory, as "appearance" is determined by color, weave, 
and design (as in case of fancy huck). 

In weighting the four points it is assumed that the majority of house- 
keepers are limited first as to cost. The scoring on this point is a per- 
sonal matter, depending upon what is "expensive" or "reasonable" for 
the individual. 

After the samples had been judged, the teacher held up one sample 
at a time calling its number and asking for the total points or "score" 
given that piece by each member of the group. There was sufficient 
variation to cause keen interest and discussion. When the women 
began to ask which pieces were all linen, and how the teacher thought 
they should be rated, she explained the simple tests for distinguishing 
cotton from linen. A general discussion followed as to good and bad 
points of the samples, including the relative amounts of sizing, color of 
stripe, wearing and laundering qualities. 

In the course of the discussion, all information necessary m the choice 
of towelling was given. It led to the source of flax, reasons for the 
present shortage, and continued high prices, explanation of the dis- 
crepencies in prices on current stock, possibihties for flax manufacture 
in the Pacific Northwest, a statement concerning the successful growing 
of fiber flax in Washington and Oregon, and, finally, suggestions for 
conserving linens on hand. 

Doubtless the success of the lesson was due largely to the fact that 
these housekeepers were approached as experienced buyers who already 
had practical knowledge of materials. The method used stimulated 
their interest and made their minds receptive to the information which 
seemed to grow out of these towels which they held in their hands. A 
lecture on flax growing, hnen manufacture, and the state of the world 
markets, might not have made connection with their kitchen towels 
or helped them in the least to purchase towelling. 



1919] TEXTILE LESSONS FOR HOMEM.'VKERS 243 

The fact that these towels were to be had in a local store at the prices 
quoted added reality to the class exercise. It happened that one store 
was unusually well stocked with toweUing of all grades. Xo difficulty 
was experienced in showing goods from a particular store, since in the 
series of lessons, articles or fabrics were borrowed or purchased for the 
class from all the stores. 

n. HOW TO JX.TDGE BLANKETS 

Nine blankets of average grade were borrowed from department 
stores. They were labelled with numbers from one to nine. Each 
woman was given a copy of the accompanying score card- and an oppor- 
tunity to examine the blankets. She recorded her estimate of each 
blanket in the column corresponding to the number on the blanket. 
Cost was put at thirty points because this article is purchased less fre- 
quently than towelling, and expense is sometimes disregarded in the 
effort to procure "warmth" and "durability." "Warmth" is determined 
by the composition of the blanket and the arrangement of the fibers, 
i.e., a highly napped blanket includes more air spaces than a compara- 
tively smooth one. "Durability" depends upon the strength of yarns, 
closeness of the weave, and character of the nap. A fluffy cotton 
blanket, for example, will not remain "fluffy" long and a highly napped 
part wool blanket will lose much of its wool from the surface. 

As in the case of towelling, estimates differed. One woman might 
be willing to pay S15.00 for a blanket and could give the full score to 
"cost," while another would have to choose a cheaper grade and would 
lower the score on "cost" for the $15.00 blanket. 

When aU the scores were compared, the teacher took up one blanket 
after another and pointed out features which had been overlooked by 
the women. For example, many blankets were plainly labeUed by the 
manufacturer as "all pure cotton," "wool nap," "warranted pure fleece 
wool," and one said "guaranteed purewool," and "no admLxture of shoddy, 
wastes, or noils." Sizes were compared, bits of nap were pulled off and 
burned to show the character of the fibers. Yarns were examined, 
weights of blankets compared, and finally comments made on washing 
and dry cleaning of different types. 

These housekeepers went home to examine their own blankets in the 
light of what they had learned and to think more intelligently about 
future purchases. 

' See page 245. 



244 



THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS 



[June 



in. HOW TO JUDGE DRESS FABRICS 

The lesson on dress goods included three kinds: cotton goods for 
house dresses, wool dress goods, and summer dress fabrics. 

The women had become familiar with the use of score cards and were 
able to place estimates on all the samples in the time allowed. The 
score cards differed according to the factors involved in the choice of 
each type of fabric; for example, the chief consideration in purchasing 
cotton goods for house dresses is the laundering quahty. 

Seven samples were shown for house dresses, including ginghams, 
percales, and crepes; ten of wool goods; twelve of summer dress fabrics. 
This lesson was the most popular of the series partly because of the 
aesthetic appeal. 

The same method was used as in former lessons. Points not included 
in the score cards were brought out, as becomingness of certain color 
and textures to types of complexion, age, and height; ease in handling 
certain fabrics above others; calculation for cutting napped fabrics and 
plaids; methods of washing colored cottons. The use of the score card 
in this sense is limited to fabrics or garments for one purpose. It may 
be employed only as a means of stimulating thought and encouraging 
the use of judgment in choice. 

This series of lessons has given a miniature shopping experience which 
is our purpose in all textile teaching. 

Kinds of toweling shown, with prices 



NTMBER 


KIND 


COMPOStTION 


WIDTH 


PRICE 








inches 




1 


Glass 


Linen 


20 


SO. 50 


2 


Glass 


Cotton 


16| 


.25 


3 


Crash 


Cotton (blue stripe) 


m 


.28 


4 


Crash 


Linen 


15§ 


.30 


5 


Birdseye 


Cotton (sized) 


16i 


.25 


6 


Glass 


Linen (loose) 


161 


.30 


7 


Twill 


Cotton (heavily sized) 


14 


.15 


8 


Unbleached muslin 


Cotton 


36 


.20 


9 


Unbleached muslin 


Cotton 


36 


.25 


10 


Huck 


Lmen 


16^ 


.60 


11 


Huck (figured) 


Cotton 


15* 


.29 


12 


Crash 


Linen (half bleached) 


161 


.40 


13 


Crash (Stevens) 


Linen (half bleached) 


16 


.35 


14 


Crash (brown) 


Cotton, some tow and 
jute 


16 


.18 


15 


Huck (figured) 


Mercerized cotton 


nh 


.65 



Sugar and flour sacks, 1 yard square, 75 cents per dozen. 



1919] 



TEXTILE LESSONS FOR HOMEMAKERS 



245 



Towelling 

Cost 

Width 

Absorbing qualities 

Weave 

Composition 

Linen 

Union 

Cotton 

Durability 

Twist of yam 
Closeness of weave 

Appearance 

Color 

Weave 

Design 

(As in huck) 

Total 



Blankets 

40 Cost 

Size 

30 Warmth 

Wool 

Wool and cotton 

Cotton 

Character of nap 

Durability 

25 Strength of yams 

Closeness of weave 
Character of nap 

5 Appearance 

Color 

Ease in Cleansing 

Total 



20 



. 10 
.100 



Cotton dress goods for house 
dresses 

Cost 35 

Width 
Laundering quality 45 

Permanence of dye 

Durability of cloth 

Shrinkage 

Ease in washing 

Ease in ironing 

Appearance after 
laundering 
Beauty 20 

Color 

Design 
Total 100 



Summer dress goods 

Cost 35 

Width 
Beauty 35 

Color 

Design or pattern 

Texture 
Durability 30 

Will it pull apart or 
rough up? 

Will it wrinkle badly? 

Will it soil easily? 

Will it clean easily? 
Total 100 



Wool dress goods 

Cost 30 

Width 

Cost of upkeep 

Dr>' cleaning 

Beauty or aesthetic 

quality 30 

Texture (surface effect) 
Design or pattern 
Weave or kind of plaid 

Durability 40 

Wearing quality 
Ability to look well 
after continued wear 
Total 100 



List of blankets sho-u>n, with prices in March, 1919 

Light weight all wool plaid S15 .00 

Cotton and wool mixed 10 . 00 

Wool nap (all cotton) 6 .95 

Blanket sheet (cotton napped, light weight 58 x 76) 2 .95 

Beacon (all cotton 66 x 80) 5 . 75 

Fine wool (some cotton) 14 . 00 

Wool and cotton 66 x 80 15 .00 

Wool and cotton 70 x 80 12 .00 

Nashua wool nap 72 x 84 7 . 50 

' The score cards used had, at the right, a sufficient number of columns for recording 
scores for each sample. 



246 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [June 

EFFECT OF PACK AND DEPTH OF WATER BATH UPON 

INTERIOR TEMPERATURE OF JARS IN 

COLD PACK CANNING 

CARRIE E. CASTLE 

Division of Household Science, University of California 

The question of the spoilage of home-canned products led to an in- 
vestigation in this laboratory of the eiSciency of different methods of 
home canning, some results of which should be of interest. They were 
obtained in the course of a research problem undertaken by the writer 
during the past year. On account of the interest this season aimually 
brings to canning problems, and because of the added interest excited 
by recent outbreaks of botuKsm due to the eating of home-canned vege- 
tables or fruits, the more important results of the investigation are here 
briefly summarized. Furthermore, while botulism' is unquestionably 
a real source of danger, the spoilage of home-canned fruits and vege- 
tables by sporulating organisms other than B. botulinus represents in 
the aggregate a large figure. The experimental evidence here tabulated 
shows quite conclusively that even though canning directions ordinarily 
given be followed literally, there is still danger that the product will not 
be sterilized. 

Method of experimeniation. The apparatus used in these experiments 
was essentially the same as that described by Miss Denton in the De- 
cember number of the Journal." Into a round opening cut into the 
tops of Mason jar caps, was fitted a thermometer by means of a one-hole 
rubber stopper. The container was a round, flat-bottomed, granite 
kettle, which could hold four jars. A wire netting raised | inch from 
the bottom afl'orded a resting place for the jars which, during all the 
work, were two in number. Into the loosely fitting cover of the con- 
tainer were drilled three holes through which protruded the two ther- 
mometers from the cans and a third thermometer reaching down into 
the water bath. The first temperature which could be read was 60°C. 
The thermometers were carefuUy tested and found to be calibrated 
correctly. The depth of the water bath was measured from the bottom 
of the kettle and therefore the jars were surrounded by f inch less depth 

' "Botulism," Dickson, Ernest C, Rockefeller Institute for Medical Research Mono- 
graph No. 8, 1918. 

^ What Temperature is Reached Inside the Jar During Home Canning?, Denton, Minna 
C, Jour. Home Econ., 10 (1918), pp. 548-552. 



1919] INTERIOR TEMPERATURE OF JARS IN COLD PACK CANNING 247 

of water than the figures indicate. The source of heat was an ordinary 
gas burner, and an attempt was made to have the amount of heat con- 
stant from day to day by opening, to a certain angle, the valve governing 
the gas supply. The water bath was kept boiling for 60 minutes from 
the moment of uniform ebulhtion, and the time recorded when the 
thermometers registered 60°, 70°, 80°, 90°, 95°, and 99° to 100°C. 

Cooling temperatures. Lack of time prevented the taking of the 
temperatures all through the cooling processes, but enough data were 
secured to show that the contents of the loosely packed jars were main- 
tained for 36 and 38 minutes on two consecutive days at 99° to 100°; 
the medium packed, for 32 minutes at 95° to 98°; the hard packed, for 
10 minutes at 80° to 82° on the first day, 8 minutes at 80° to 82° on the 
second day, and 16 minutes at 70° to 75° on the third day. If spores 
were present, especial!}' in the hard packed jars, this method of sterili- 
zation would have had little or no effect upon their viability. 

These results are in accord with those reported recently by Miss 
Denton. - 

EJfect of pack on interior temperature. Tables 1 and 2 show what a 
notable effect the method of packing the jars (that is, loose, maximum 
interior temperature 99°; medium, 98°; and hard, 82°) has on the speed 
and completeness of the penetration of heat to the center of the jar. 
The "hard" packed jars held no more material than might often be 
crowded into a jar by a thrifty housewife. 

The curves plotted from table 1 give a graphic picture of the effect 
of the pack on heat penetration, and also bring out clearly the fact that 
in intermittent sterilization processes the amount of heat reaching the 
center of the jar is noticeably less on the second and third days than it 
is on the first day when the contents of the jars are fresh. In other 
words, cooking tends to pack the jars more closely and heat cannot 
penetrate so rapidly. 

Effect of depth of bath on interior temperature. Table 2 also shows 
the comparative values of different depths of water-bath. Complete 
immersion instead of the shallow bath maintained the contents of the 
jars at the temperatures stated in table 2 for periods of from 8 to 60 
per cent longer in the case of hquids. In the case of solid packs of 
carrots cut in one-fourth inch cubes the periods during which the con- 
tents were maintained at temperatures stated in table 2 are from 10 to 
543 per cent longer. 



TABLE 1 

Efecl of pack upon interior temperature of contents (spinach) of glass jars {boiled 60 minutes 
after water-bath began to boil) 



Loose 

First day. . . 
Second day. 
Third day*. 



Medium 

First day. . . 
Second day. 
Third day.. 



Hard. 



First day. . . 
Second day. 
Third day. . 



Hardt 

First day. . . 
Second day. 
Third daN-*. 



WEIGHT OF 
VEGETABLE 
IN QUART 



751 



934 



UAxmnu 

TEMPEIL\- 

TCEE 

OF CENTER 

OP JAR 



PP'-lOO" 
PQ^-lOO" 



98° 
92° 
92° 



82° 
81° 
75° 



82° 
54° 



UTNUTES CONTENTS OF JAR WERE 

HELD AT OR ABOVE VARIOUS 

TEMPERATURES C. 



* Can brolie. 

t Leaves were stripped from center rib. 




TO* so' 90' 

Oeqj-^es Cent/'yr-oare 

G HA /=>/-/ r/^CA^ TABLE T 



1919] INTERIOR TEMPERATURE OF JARS IN COLD PACK CANNING 249 



Effect of depth of water-bath upon interior temperature cf contents of glass jars {boiled 60 min- 
utes after water-bath began to boil) 



SIZE OF JAR 


DEPTH 
BATH 


CONTENTS OF 
JAR 


MAXIMUM 

TEMPERATURE 

OF INTERIOR 

OF JAR 


MINDTES CONTENTS OF 
TEMPERATORES 


JAR WERE 
C. 




60° 


70° 


80° 


90° 


95° 


99°- 
100° 




inches 




















'{ 


Water 


99°-100° 


61 


59 


56 


53 


50 


40 




Carrots 


98° 


54 


50 


41 


33 


21 




Pint 






















7 1 


Water 


gg'-ioo" 


72 


68 


63 


59 


55 


47 


I 


Carrots 


99°-100'' 


60 


55 


47 


38 


28 


6 




3 1 


Water 


99''-100° 


54 


51 


48 


44 


39 


30 




Carrots 


85° 


26 


18 


7 








Quart ■ 


6 1 


Water 


99°-100° 


60 


56 


52 


47 


44 


36 


Carrots 


96° 


56 


52 


46 


32 


17 






9 I 


Water 


99°-100° 


75 


70 


65 


59 


54 


46 




Carrots 


99°-100° 


61 


59 


52 


38 


24 


1 




3 1 


Water 


99°-100° 


50 


47 


43 


38 


33 


25 




Carrots 


76° 


16 


10 










Two-quart ■ 


6 1 


Water 


99°-100° 


57 


53 


49 


44 


41 


29 


Carrots 


96° 


55 


48 


39 


25 


8 






9 1 


Water 


99°-100° 


72 


67 


62 


57 


53 


39 




Carrots 


97° 


60 


54 


46 


33 


16 





It may thus be seen that with the more shallow water-baths the maxi- 
mum interior temperatures reached, 98°, 85°, 76° in the pint, quart, 
and 2-quart jars, respectively, are considerably lower than those reached 
in the deeper baths, 99°, 99°, 97°, and the higher temperatures were 
maintained for a longer period in the latter cases. 

Effect of initial temperature of bath on interior temperature. Table 3 
gives figures covering the first hour's sterilization process in the hot 
water method; that is, when the water-bath is boiling before the jars 
are placed therein. For comparative purposes figures are given in the 
same table for the first day's sterilization of jars filled with the same 
kind of material surrounded by water at temperatures near 17°C. and 
registering a temperature not far different when placed in the bath. It 



250 



THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS 



[June 



will be seen at once that with the deeper bath it is much the more efficient 
process to start with cold water surrounding the jars, since the maxi- 
mum temperature is higher, 99° instead of 95°, and time of maintenance 
of this maximum is longer, 24 and 16 instead of 12 minutes. 



Effect of initial temperature of water-bath upon interior temperature of contents (carrots) of 
glass jars (boiled 60 minutes after water-bath began to boil) 



SEE OF JAK 


DEPTH OF 
BATH 


MAXIMUM 

TEMPERATURE 

OF INTERIOR 

OF JAR 


TEMPERATURE 
WHEN JARS 
IMMERSED 


MINUTES CONTENTS OF 

HELD AT OR ABOVE 

TEMPERATURES 


JAR WERE 
VARIOUS 
C. 




60° 


70° 


80° 


90° 


93° 


99°- 
100' 




inches 


















Pint 


3 1 


99''-100° 


100° 


55 


52 


49 


44 


39 


24 






98° 


17° 


54 


50 


41 


33 


21 




Quart 


3 1 


99°-100° 
85° 


100° 
17° 


53 
26 


50 
18 


47 

7 


40 


34 


12 








3 1 


90° 
76° 


100° 

17° 


35 
16 


28 
10 


17 












Pint 


7 1 


99°-100° 


100° 


49 


47 


41 


3i 


21 








99°-100° 


17° 


00 


55 


4; 


38 


28 


6 


Quart 


6 1 


94° 
96° 


100° 

17° 


38 
56 


31 

52 


22 
46 


8 
32 


17 










6 1 


87° 
96° 


100° 
17° 


27 

55 


21 
48 


8 
39 


25 


8 








Quart 


9 1 


95° 
99°-100° 


100° 
17° 


40 
61 


34 
59 


26 

52 


12 

38 


24 






1 




9 1 


95° 
97° 


100° 
17° 


41 
60 


35 

54 


28 
46 


12 
33 


16 









E£ect of blanching on interior temperature. A test was carried out, 
figures for which are not here given, to determine whether or not blanch- 
ing for 10 minutes affects the rapidity of heat penetration during sterili- 
zation. The material tried was string beans cut into f inch lengths, 
and the results were negative, leading to the conclusion that 10 minutes 
preliminary cooking does not soften string beans to the extent of allowing 
a closer pack. Linked to the recently shown evidence that cold shock, 



1919] INTERIOR TEMPERATURE OF JARS IN COLD PACK CANNING 251 

as such, does not afltect favorably the sterilization of canned goods,' 
this seems to exclude the possibility of blanching as a factor of sterili- 
zation, unless it be along the line of an initial cleansing or an adverse 
change in the hydrogen ion concentration."* These results differ from 
those obtained by Miss Denton.^ 

Summing up the evidence which this and previous investigations have 
afforded, the following conclusions seem warranted. 

1. The completeness of sterilization of vegetables packed in glass 
jars and heated in a water bath for one hour on three successive days, 
counting time from the beginning of boiling of the water:bath, is 
questioned. 

2. The water-bath should completely immerse the jars, and should 
be brought to the boiling point after immersion of the jars. 

3. WTien a water-bath method is used very great care should be exer- 
cised in the pack. Loosely packed jars only should be used in canning 
by usual home methods. 

4r. Home-canned vegetables, particularly solid packed jars, should 
always be heated before use to avoid the danger of poisoning by the 
toxin of B. botulinus, the spores of which are exceedingly resistant to 
heat.^ 

' The Influence of Cold Shock in the Sterilization of Canned Foods, Bushnell, L. D., 
Jotir. Ind. and Eng. Chem., 10 (1918), pp. 432-436. 

Utility of Blanching in Food Canning: Effect of Cold Shock upon Bacterial Death Rates, 
Bruett, Eva M., J(»tr. Ind. and Eng. Chem., 11 (1919), pp. 37-39. 

' Influence of Temperature and Hydrogen Ion Concentration upon the Spore Cycle of 
Bacillus Subtilis, Itano, Arao and Neill, James, Jour. General Physiology, 1 (1919), pp. 
421^28. 

' The Effect of Heat on the Spores of Bacillus Botulinus: Its Bearing on Home Canning 
Methods: Part I, Burke, Georgina Spooner, Jo^ir. Amer. Med. Assn., 72 (1919), pp. 88-92. 



252 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [June 

AN S. A. T. C. DIET KITCHEN 

JESSIE WHITACRE 
Utah Agricultural College, Logan, Utah 

Shortly after the opening of the Utah Agricultural College, in the fall 
of 1918, there came, from the college physician and the army physician, 
the proposal that the Foods Department of the School of Home Econom- 
ics take charge of the preparation of food for the patients in the S. A. T. 
C. hospital on the campus. Plans to this end, and of such nature that 
the students in the foods classes could carry on a portion of this project 
as their share of campus "war work," were nearing completion, when, 
because of the outbreak of influenza, the College was closed on October 
eleventh. 

For a week the Mess Hall provided food for the sick of the S. A. T. C. 
Then the Foods Department was urged to put into effect its hospital 
diet plan, even though college was not in session. The total number of 
sick at this time was a considerable multiple of the probable number 
(ten to forty in a group of 1000, as indicated by health statistics), and 
of the number whose diet the Foods Department was equipped to handle. 
The Staff agreed to be immediately responsible for the diet of twenty- 
five men who were most iU and required feeding every three hours. 
During the next four days they made hasty readjustments and prepa- 
rations in the way of additional and suitable kitchen utensils, and an 
adequate corps of helpers, in order to assume entire responsibility 
for hospital food. Eleven days after college closed, the Foods Depart- 
ment served breakfast to one hundred and five patients and thirty-five 
attendants, and, until the date of the demobilization of the S. A. T. C, 
had full charge of diet for the sick. During these sixty-one days all 
meals, served to the sick and their attendants and nurses, were prepared 
in the foods laboratories in the Woman's Building, and sent from this 
place to the hospitals on the campus. 

While influenza raged, the south wing of our main building served as 
an emergency hospital for those in quarantine. To provide for the sick 
whose illness was not influenza the stock-judging pavillion was converted 
into a temporary hospital designated as the infirmary. If the sick re- 
porting here were discovered to be influenza patients they were taken 
at once to the emergency hospital; otherwise they remained in the 
infirmary. Having the sick in two different buildings on the campus 



1919] 



S. A. T. C. DIET KITCHEN 



253 



exactly doubled a portion of the work in the diet kitchen, for, although 
the food for the two places was prepared together, for serving it had to 
be divided, accurately measured, and packed separately for the two 
groups of men. Part of the time the food for the attendants and nurses 
in the emergency hospital was prepared and packed in another labora- 
tor}', and by a different corps of workers. 

Each day the doctor or nurse in charge in each hospital reported to 
the diet kitchen supervisors the number to be fed the next twenty-four 
hours. The number of attendants and nurses in the day shift and the 
night shift in the emergency hospital was indicated, and the patients 
here were divided into three groups, namely, No. I's, who received 
Uquid diet, No. 2's, soft diet. No. 3's, light diet. No. 3 diet served for 
both patients and attendants in the infirmary, though at nearly every 
meal there was taken on the trays for one or two men only such part 
of the full meal as constituted a soft or liquid diet, as the case demanded. 

The menu for each day was planned first for No. 3's; from this was 
selected such foods as were suitable for No. 2's, according to the doctor's 
directions. WTiUe No. 1 diet presented more nearly a distinct problem, 
economy in labor was effected, as far as possible, by preparing at once 
those foods suitable for all patients, as cocoa, lemonade, or cream soups, 
or those foods given alike to No. I's and No. 2's, as gruels, beef tea, or 
ice cream, and by making the time of serving such foods coincident or 
consecutive. The following menus will illustrate. 



No. 1. — 15 men 
5.00 a.m. Hot milk 



8.00 a.m. Cocoa, 1 c. 

9.45 a.m. 

11.00 a.m. Lemonade, 1 c. 
12.45 p.m. 



Typical menus for patients 

No. 2. — 7 men 
Cream of wheat, cooked in 
part milk, and J c. raisins 
Top milk, J c. 
Toast, 1 slice 
Butter, 1 pat 
Cocoa (milk), J c. 

Lemonade, 1 c. 

Cream of tomato soup, | c. 
Crackers, 2 
Toast, 1 slice 
Soft cooked egg, 1 
Brown Betty, J c. 
Lemon sauce, i c. 
Tea, J c. 



No. 3. — is men 
Cream of wheat, cooked in 
part milk, and f c. raisins 
Top mUk, 5 c. 
Toast, 2 slices 
Butter, 1 pat 
Cocoa (milk), j c. 



Cream of tomato soup, 1 c. 
Crackers, 2 
Meat loaf, 1 slice 

(Bean pulp, meat, catsup, 

bread crumbs) 
Bread, IJ- slices 
Butter, 1 pat 
Brown Betty, i c. 
Lemon sauce, J c. 
Tea, f c. 



254 



THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS 



[June 



2.00 p.m. Wheat gruel, 1 c. 

2.45 p.m. Wheat gruel, 1 c. 

5.00 p.m. Beef tea, 1 c. 



5.30 p.m. 




Pea puree, i c. 
Potato (boiled), 1 
Toast, 1 slice 
Butter, 1 pat 
Pineapple tapioca 
Milk, 1 glass 




Buttered peas, j c. 
Potato puff, 1 c. 
Bread, 2 slices 
Butter, 1 pat 
Pineapple tapioca, \ c. 
Milk, 1 glass 


8.00 p.m. 


Egg nog, 1 c. 








11.00 p.m. 


Beef tea, 1 c. 


November 1, 


1918 




No. 1 


— 14 men 


No. 2 — 4 men 


No. 3 — 25 men (Emergency) 










24 men (Infirmary) 


5.00 a.m. 


Hot milk, 1 c. 








8.00 a.m. 


Egg nog, 1 c. 


Milk toast, 1 slice 

milk 
Baked apple, 1 
Cocoa (milk), | c. 


and i c. 


Cornflakes, 1 c. 
Top milk, \ c. 
Baked apple, 1 large 
Scrambled eggs, creamed, 1 

egg and J c. sauce 
Toast, 2 slices 
Butter, 1 pat 
Cocoa (milk), J c. 



9.45 a.m. 
11.00 a.m. Cream tomato 

soup, f c. 
12.45 p.m. 



2.00 p.m. Cocoa, 1 c. 
2.45 p.m. 

5.00 p.m. Milk chicken 
broth, 1 c. 



5.30 p.m. 



Egg nog, 1 c. 



Roast chicken — small piece — 

breast 
Jelly, 1 T. 
Mashed squash, \ c. 
Buttered toast, 1 slice 
Cornstarch pudding, \ c. 
Top milk, I c. 



Milk chicken broth, 1 c. 



Stewed com, f c. 
Baked potato, 1 small 
Buttered toast, 1 slice 
Butter, 1 pat 
Apple tapioca, \ c. 
Lemon sauce, i c. 



8.00 p.m. Egg nog, 1 c. 
11.00 p.m. Milk, 1 c. 



Roast chicken, 1 large piece 
JeUy, 2 T. 
Mashed squash, 1 c. 
Celery, 3 pieces 
Bread, 2 slices 
Butter, 1 pat 
Cornstarch pudding, | c. 
Top milk, J c. 



27 men (emergency) 
31 men (infirmary) 
Stewed com, f c. 
Baked potato, 1 medium 
Wilted lettuce and egg, f c. 

and lemon salad dressing 
Bread, Ij slice 
Butter, 1 pat 
Apple tapioca, i c. 
Lemon sauce, \ c. 



1919] S. A. T. C. DIET KITCHEN 255 

Typical menu for attendants and nurses 
Breakfast Supper 

Stewed prunes Meat stew 

Cornflakes, nnillf Swiss chard with egg 

Scrambled eggs Bread, butter 

Creamed potatoes Apple sauce, cake 

MufSns, butter Milk cocoa 
Coffee 

Dinner Midnight meal 

Baked halibut, tomato sauce Cold sliced meat 

Mashed potatoes Baked squash 

Buttered peas Bread, butter 

Bread, butter Chocolate tapioca 

Pumpkin custard Coffee 
Tea 

The menu for the day, with the number of men in each group and in 
each hospital, was posted on the wall in the larger of the two labora- 
tories where the food for the sick was prepared; the menu for the at- 
tendants and nurses and the nimiber in the day and night shifts, in the 
laboratory where this food was prepared; and in each case the amount 
required for each individual was indicated. Each girl thus had before 
her the data from which to calculate the entire quantity of a given 
food to whose preparation she was assigned. 

The three members of the foods staff planned the menus for patients, 
attendants, and nurses, and divided among themselves the work of 
supervision. One, responsible for the attendants and nurses meals, so 
arranged the work that, though she shared in the preparation of break- 
fast, she was able to rest for a time in the afternoon and again be on 
duty for the evening meals. A second supervisor came for the prepa- 
ration of breakfast for the sick, and remained through the noon meal; 
the third came on duty in the "invalid diet" kitchen shortly before 
noon, and remained until the K. P.'s had washed the supper dishes. 
The girls reported for duty at such hours as divided the corps into two 
shifts whose time overlapped in the middle of the day when the work 
was heaviest. Those who left home at 5.15 or 5.45 a.m. left the kitchen 
early in the afternoon, at the end of an eight or a nine hour day; while 
those who came at 9.00 or 10.00 a.m. remained until supper had been 
taken. The early-comers who lived in the town, a mile or two from the 
campus, were brought in the college automobile to the Woman's Build- 
ing, each morning. We credit the faithful and punctual chauffeur of 
this car with a goodly portion of the smooth rurming of the kitchen. 



256 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [June 

The personnel of the corps varied but little. It included seven of 
the members of the home economics staff, three extension workers, 
ten city school teachers, four housewives, and five home economics 
seniors. Two of the corps, other than the home economics staff, were 
tramed home economics graduates and were paid accordingly; all the 
rest received merely working-women's wages. What effect and how 
great this pay had upon constancy and efficiency in work it would indeed 
be difficult to say, but the absolute harmony, happiness, and cooperation 
at all times among the workers was plainly evident, and the devotion 
to such details as ordinarily are uninviting and uninteresting was one 
of the flattering and inspiring features of the success of the whole under- 
taking. No one ever tired of her job ! 

As each helper came on duty, she was given a sUp of paper on which 
was noted the food preparation and packing for which she would be 
wholly responsible, or share with one or more others who were named 
on her shp. To illustrate: 

Potter Batt 

Top milk for cereal. Pack dishes for breakfast. 

Finish cereal. Serve breakfast in infirmary. 

Help Batt toast. Make cocoa. 

Roast — carve — with Nelson. Toast — with Potter. 

Help Daniels butter carrots. Soft cooked eggs. 

Start oats for breakfast. Baked custard — with Young. 

Wash dishes. Help Nelson — plain cake. 

Soak prunes — 6 per man. 

The Foods Department feels fully justified in taking considerable 
pride in the fact that meals were ready on the stated minute, with mili- 
tary precision. All through the sixty-one days the diet kitchen was 
open the girls estimated with remarkable accuracy the time necessary 
for preparing the dishes for which they were responsible, so that the 
food did not siiffer by undue standing after it was once ready. 

All the food was transported on one of the army trucks manned by 
a detail of S. A. T. C. men under the supervision of a sergeant. The 
food was packed in suitable containers, covered, and labeled. For 
example: Tomato soup for No. 3 patients, 1 c. per man; Toast for No. 
2's, 1 slice each; for No. 3's, 2 slices each. Chocolate malted milk for 
No. I's, I c. each. Coffee for nurses, 2 cups each. Meat for attendants, 



1919] S. A. T. C. DIET KITCHEN 257 

2 pieces each. Custard for Infirmary, 1 mold each. Hot preparations 
were packed in double boilers or in hea\'y walled utensils. Dishes upon 
which hot food was to be served were heated before packing in big dish 
pans, and covered well with wrapping paper. Members of the truck 
detail held in hand during transit those utensils in which was material 
likely to splash out, as an urn of cocoa, or a pitcher of milk. All other 
containers when loaded on to the truck were covered over with a clean 
canvas which further protected them from dirt and cold. The truck called 
at the Woman's Building for food for patients in both hospitals, at the 
following hours: 7.45 a.m. breakfast, 12.45 p.m. dinner, 5.30 p.m. supper; 
and for feedings for No. I's at 8.00 p.m., 11.00 p.m., and 5.00 a.m. Ad- 
ditional calls were made between breakfast and dinner, and dinner and 
supper for the extra feedings to be given patients on hquid and soft 
diet. Meals for attendants and nurses left the Woman's Building at 
6.15 a.m. breakfast, 11.45 a.m. dinner, 6.15 p.m. supper and midnight 
meal. This fourth meal was sent prepared as far as possible, though 
usually one or more dishes were merely made ready for the assistants 
to finish so their food could be hot. 

The food arriving at the hospitals ten to twenty minutes after it left 
the Woman's Building was in excellent condition as regards temperature. 
The truck stopped first at the infirmary, where was unloaded the food 
for the patients and attendants there. One or two members of the diet 
kitchen corps went at every meal to this hospital to serve the food on 
the trays. The two or three sergeants, attendants here, carried the 
trays to the patients in their ward. Later they gathered up the trays 
and packed the dishes ready for the truck to return them to the Woman's 
Building. In the emergency hospital the serving was done by some of 
the soldier attendants and carried to the patients by others. Attend- 
ants here gathered up the dishes after each meal, put them through 
disinfectant solution, and packed them ready for return on the truck. 
Dishes to be washed reached the foods laboratory from one and one-half 
to two and one-half hours after each meal had been sent. In the labora- 
tories where the food for the sick was prepared the dishes were washed, 
scalded, and dried by the diet kitchen girls after breakfast and dinner; 
but after the evening meal, and after all three meals in the laboratory 
preparing attendants and nurses' food, the dish washing was done by 
"K. P.'s." The work of supervising the latter was lightened by special 
provision made by the Mess Ofiicer, allowing a given detail of men to 
remain on duty for one week, rather than one day as is the usual rule 



258 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [JunC 

for "K. p." work. Obviously those S. A. T. C. men who were never 
sent for "K. P." work in the Woman's Building lost the special training 
in the art of scientific dish washing under the supervision of the Foods 
Department Staff. Seriously, by the end of each week, no "K. P." 
group showed evidence that it regarded the work as irksome. 

Figures in part indicate the magnitude of the venture. The number 
of meals served calculated from the daily records kept are as follows: 
To patients — October, 2482; November, 5369; December, 992 (includes 
attendants and nurses); total, 8843. To attendants and nurses — Oc- 
tober, 1316; November, 3095; total, 4411. To kitchen help and super- 
visors (noon meals) — October and November, 703; December 124; total 
827. Grand total, 14,081. 

The food suppHes for the diet kitchen were furnished in part from the 
Commissary Department. The Mess Hall kitchen sent to the Woman's 
Building daily the number of loaves of bread needed. It also furnished 
as needed, such materials as cocoa, coffee, cornflakes, macaroni, potatoes, 
beans, oleo, flour, dried fruit, canned beans, corn, and salmon. The 
Mutual and ReHef Societies sent in 150 quarts of canned fruit and twenty 
quarts of jam and jelly. Other supplies, as fresh fruits, sugar, canned 
milk, fresh eggs, fresh vegetables, crackers, meat, cheese, butter, and 
milk were procured from the local wholesale house, grocer, butcher, or 
dairyman. The total expenditure for food supplies, including the esti- 
mated cost of the donated fruit, was $2011.01. This makes the average 
cost per day $32,967 for supplies only; the cost per man per day, $0,428 
for suppUes only. Including pay roll the diet kitchen expenditures 
amounted to $2799.35, making an average total cost per day of $45,896; 
and the total cost per man per day, $0,596. We consider these figures 
reasonable, if not actually low, when we take into account the fact that 
the sick had: Every meal — fruit, fresh, canned, dried or preserved; 
milk, (No. 1, and No. 2 patients one quart per man, per day. No. 3, 
patients, one quart after the number of patients was diminished) ; butter, 
on the tray; oleo, used for seasoning and cooking. Every day — meat, 
once or twice (chicken twice each week) ; fresh eggs, once to three times, 
each man receiving one to two and one-half eggs; cereal, cooked in 
I to all milk, if cooked; fresh vegetable, at least once. 

The supervisors found that the diet kitchen furnished a very practical 
problem in dietetics. With the actual work of cooking, washing dishes, 
ordering supplies and supervising, they were able to weigh a sufficient 
number of food preparations so that the nutritive value of the meals 



1919] S. A. T. C. DIET KITCHEN 259 

could be calculated in terms of protein and calories. These figures 
must be as accurate as those worked out in typical dietetics classes, and 
as can be expected outside of the strictly experimental laboratory. The 
calculations made for eight days, five of which were consecutive and the 
other three each typical, show that each man receiving a No. 3 diet, 
consumed, on the average daily: 

Protein Calories 
grams 

Breakfast 27 746 

Dinner 39 904 

Supper 31 948 

Total 97 2598 

The following statistics were volunteered by the sergeant attendants 
in the infirmary. All gained in weight. Sergeant A gained twenty 
pounds in the first two of sLx weeks, and held the gain. His gain was 
made on the quantity of food served to one patient. Sergeant B, within 
the six weeks, gained twenty-nine pounds. Sergeant C, in four weeks, 
gained twenty-seven pounds. In view of the amount of protein and 
nimiber of calories in the daily average diet, and the presence of liberal 
quantities of milk, eggs, and fresh vegetables, the food served to the 
sick must surely be regarded as "adequate." 

The physicians in charge were most kind and generous in their ex- 
pressions of approval of the food prepared for the patients, and they 
attribute to it a share in the fine record that the Agricultural College 
of Utah made in handling the "Flu" situation. It is a point of not a 
little comment, that not a member of the diet kitchen corps was a "Flu" 
victim. 

The days of conservation were still with us, and great care was taken 
in the diet kitchen, both to prevent waste and to make the best utili- 
zation of all materials. For illustration, when preparing stewed apples 
or sauce the parings were cooked and the resulting juice used for making 
a pudding sauce, or else the cooked material was pressed through a sieve 
making very fine and smooth sauce. Chicken proved to be our cheapest 
meat, since by a generous purchase we were able to serve pieces of chicken 
at one meal, and for a second use the meat of the bony pieces for patties, 
or creaming, or in thick soup. After the meat was scraped from the 
bones they were again stewed, and considerable additional flavor was 
procured if not much nutritive substance. Portions of cereal left were 
utilized in custards and simple puddings. There was no difficulty in 
disposing of bread scraps in pudding, or crumbs for baked dishes. Small 



260 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS jjunc 

amounts of fruits went into the make up of puddings, souffles, or gelatin 
desserts. The soup kettle swallowed up many a small portion of vege- 
table or meat. Mashed potatoes made a second appearance in potato 
puff, and plain boiled or baked potatoes formed the top of cottage pie, 
or perhaps were riced or scalloped. The outer leaves of lettuce were 
wilted while the inner more tender ones were served in crisp salad. Per- 
haps it should be mentioned that the left overs, used as indicated, were 
never those from food that had once been sent to the emergency hospital. 

Because one, two, or all four of the other home economics staff mem- 
bers were on duty with the foods instructors throughout the time the 
diet kitchen was operating, and for a portion of that time one or two 
members of the Extension Department were also helping, there was 
afforded an opportunity unequaled, in any other probable circimistance, 
for the foods staff, two of whose members are new-comers this year, 
to become acquainted with their co-workers. 

Further human interest and recreation, approaching that demanded 
by the human play spirit, we found in the suggestions inherent in the 
red letter days of the calendar. On Hallowe'en, our menu for No. 2's 
and 3's included a few pieces of plain fondant, chocolate dipped, and set 
upon each tray in a wee cup all bedecorated with seasonable cats and 
pumpkins and witches. The truck detaU and "K. P.'s" were given 
ginger bread and coffee with real cream, and fruit salad in apple cups 
into which had been carved grotesque faces. Their eating in our de- 
partment dining room must have been a treat after the regular Mess 
Hall arrangement. On Thanksgiving we had not only roast turkey and 
cranberry sauce for the actual piece-de-resistance at noon, but also, on 
the supper trays were three or four pieces of home made candy and stuffed 
dates. The girls in the kitchen made good sport of the candy making. 
On this date the "K. P.'s" and truck detail were served, again in our 
dining room, with one crust raisin pie smothered with whipped cream, 
and hot milk cocoa. As Christmas with demobilization days approached 
hand in hand, we prepared pounds of home made candy and packed into 
gay boxes these sweets for our soldier boys. 

Considering the diet kitchen venture as presenting a problem, inter- 
esting, practical, and professional, and an opportunity to be of actual 
service to our men in uniform and therefore to our nation, and appre- 
ciating that it opened a field for happy comradeship in work, we 
who were an intimate part of that venture look upon it as a priceless 
experience. 



1919] PROMOTION OF HOME ECONOMICS IN SCHOOLS 261 

A NEW PROGR.\M FOR THE PROMOTION OF HOME 
ECONOMICS IN THE SCHOOLS 

EDNA N. WHITE 
President of the American Home Economics Association 

The Smith-Hughes Act has opened the way for remarkable develop- 
ment in vocational education in this country. There are, however, 
certain limitations which this law has imposed upon vocational home 
economics due to the fact that, in the act, home economics is included 
in that section which sets up the standard for trade and industrial 
education. 

To remedy this difficulty and to provide adequate funds for home 
economics education, a bill, entitled "A Bill to Provide for Coopera- 
tion with the States in the Promotion of Vocational Education in Home 
Economics and to Appropriate Money and Regulate Its Expenditure," 
is to be introduced into Congress, and it should have the active support 
of every member of the Home Economics Association and of every 
reader of the Journal. This bill will be a substitute for that portion 
of the Smith-Hughes Act which relates to home economics. It will 
provide for an interpretation of vocational home economics along the 
broad lines outlined below, so that the large groups of girls and women 
who need instruction may be reached by homemaking classes in day, 
part-time, and evening schools. This bill further includes an appro- 
priation which will provide for home economics the same amount 
of Federal aid as is provided for agricultural education and trade and 
industrial education. 

The Vocational Education Act recognizes homemaking as a vocation, 
comparable with industrial or agricultural pursuits, and vocational 
home economics is designed to train girls and women for work in their 
own homes as house daughters or as homemakers as well as for em- 
ployment in the homemaking occupations. Yet the fact that home 
economics is included in that section of the bill which deals with trade 
and industry has caused some misunderstanding, especially since to 
many vocational education has meant only training for industry or for 
a wage earning occupation outside of the home. 

Education in homemaking is the most far reaching of any of the 
forms of vocational education. There are about twenty million homes 
in the United States furnishing an occupation into which more workers 



262 THE JOXJRNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [June 

go than into any other single trade or profession; yet only an infinitesimal 
portion of those engaged in it have any training for it. According to 
the census of 1910, there are in the United States more than forty- 
four million girls and women. Of these, about eighty per cent will 
marry and homemaking will become their chief occupation. The 
large majority of girls and women are responsible in one way or another 
for some part in the home activities, either as managers and workers 
in their own homes or as members of a household with a share in its 
duties. The average girl of over 14 needs training in the work of the 
home and the larger social and economic principles of family Hfe; for, 
either as an independent worker in industrial Unes or as a member of 
a family, some share in the life of the home or in the management of 
the income is hers. 

There are three large groups of girls and women to be reached by 
homemaking training, and to be effective, vocational education must 
be planned to meet the best interests of all these women. 

These groups are, roughly, the girls of 14 to 16 who are in school, 
the girls of over 14 who have dropped out of school, and the older 
women most of whom are at work in their own homes. 

To reach all of these with the homemaking training which will best 
fit their needs, courses must be offered in day, part-time, and evening 
schools. 

The greater number of girls who are now being reached through the 
schools are the few who elect some home economics in the day schools. 
There are many more girls who would be interested and would be 
held in school longer if the right kind of home economics courses were 
planned for them. For most of these girls the four-year high school 
course, with an adequate amount of home economics and related science 
and arts, is the one which will best fit them for their later home- 
making responsibilities. There are, however, groups of girls in school 
who will soon drop out from one cause or another, and these girls should 
be given a shorter, more intensive course in homemaking. 

Among the girls who are out of school and who should be given some 
part-time courses in homemaking, we find those who have dropped 
out because they were not interested in regular school work or because 
they were needed to help with the home duties, and the large group 
of girls who have gone to work as soon as working papers could be 
secured. With the passage of compulsory part-time education laws, 
more and more of these girls will come back to school for from four 



1919] PROMOTION OF HOME ECONOMICS IN SCHOOLS 263 

to sLx hours of instruction a week. For most of these, homemaking 
training should form a part of the course; for some of these girls who 
are either at work in the home, or who desire training for occupations 
closely connected with the home, at least half time should be devoted 
to such training. 

The groups of older girls and women who should be reached through 
evening schools are made up of women who are at work in their own 
homes and who need help in their immediate problems; women who 
are at work outside of the home and yet who either have homemaking 
duties or who expect soon to assume them; and women who desire 
training for work as household assistants or training in some other 
occupation in the field of home economics. For all of these groups 
short unit courses, organized as a definite part of the public school 
system, are needed. These courses are not meant to take the place 
of the extension work which is doing such effective service — the one 
is a supplement to the other. Extension work awakens an interest, 
broadens the vision and stimulates a desire on the part of the women 
for a better understanding of their work. Both types of instruction 
are needed if we are to begin to reach all of the women who wish and 
who deserve a chance for help in their daily problems. 

To briefly classify the groups who should be reached by classes in 
the schools, we find that the short unit courses (afternoon and evening 
classes) should be designed to meet the needs of: 

Groups of homemakers at the time they urgently need help to solve 
their home problems. 

Groups of women who are at work in occupations outside of the 
home, yet who expect soon to become homemakers and who should be 
given the opportunity for homemaking education. 

Groups of women who are in occupations outside of the home yet 
who have some home duties and wish homemaking training to enable 
them to better perform their household tasks or to improve their Hving 
conditions. 

Groups of women who are employed or who desire employment as 
helpers in some capacity within the home and who desire training which 
will enable them to more efficiently perform their services and to de- 
mand a better wage. 

Part-time schools or classes should reach girls of: 

Fourteen years of age on whom a large responsibility for the work 
of the home unfortunately rests, due to the loss or ill health of the 



264 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [June 

mother, or due to financial conditions which make it essential for the 
mother to earn a Uving outside of the home. 

Girls at work in factories, or stores, who are released for a certain 
mmiber of hours per week for instruction. 

Girls employed in the homes as household assistants who should be 
released for part-time instruction in homemaking. 

Groups of girls who desire training as household assistants, or for 
other occupations in the field of home economics. 

A large number of girls who have left school because they are not 
interested m day school work. Many of these may be reached by the 
type of part-time instruction designed to interest them and to meet 
their needs as house daughters and as future homemakers. 

The work given in day schools should be planned to reach three 
large groups of girls: 

Those who have dropped out of school because the type of instruc- 
tion did not interest them due to its failure to touch the immediate 
needs of their daily life. Such girls may frequently be persuaded to 
come back for the course which is designed to hold their interests and 
to meet their needs. 

Girls of over 14 years of age who are in school but who are not 
interested in the ordinary academic work. They are over-age girls, 
slightly backward girls, or girls who never expect to go further in their 
education. Many of these girls could be interested and would develop 
further, if given the right type of homemaking education. 

Average high school girls, many of whom will make up our commun- 
ity leaders among women. These girls should be reached by the right 
t5q3e of homemaking instruction which will not only make them better 
wives and mothers but will enable them to play a larger part in the 
social and civic life of the comjnimity. 

As has been stated above, the administration of the Vocational 
Education Act as it relates to home economics has been difficult in 
many of the states due to the fact that home economics is included 
in that section of the law which sets up the standards for the trade 
and industrial schools and classes, and thus subjects home economics 
education to the same rulings as trade and industrial education. 

For the group of girls who will remain in school for only a short 
time and who need short intensive courses in homemaking, courses in 
the day school have been well worked out in accordance with the stand- 
ards set for the day trade and industrial school. However, this typ? 



1919] PROMOTION OF HOME ECONOMICS IN SCHOOLS 265 

of school does not meet the needs of the average high school girl, be- 
cause the conditions established for the trade and industrial schools are 
based upon the assumption that the average pupil has had no previous 
direct contact with the occupation which she is preparing to enter. 
This is not true in the case of girls preparing for the homemaking oc- 
cupation, for practically all girls have had contact with some phases 
of homemaking and in a large number of cases have had a share in the 
duties of the home. 

It must further be remembered that homemaking is a composite 
of many differentiated occupations requiring various forms of related 
knowledge. Under ordinarj^ circumstances the efficient homemaker 
must be a reasonably skilled worker in four or five semi-skilled oc- 
cupations. In addition she is usually joint owner and manager of the 
whole enterprise. The efficient homemaker must be a skilled worker 
in general housekeeping, in the preparation and serving of food, the 
care and rearing of children, the care of the health of the family, the 
care and repair of the clothing of the family, and the promoter of the 
pubhc health of the community. As a joint manager, the homemaker 
is largely responsible for the character of her enterprise, the standard 
of living, and the quahty of the product of the home, — the child. She 
is a purchasing agent, a partner in the business, and usually the business 
manager. As superintendent of the plant, she plans her own work, 
that of the members of the family, and the work of the employees, if 
she has them. She is the educational director, health and welfare 
manager, and the social head of the family group. Homemaking, then, 
cannot be compared to a unit trade and the training which is neces- 
sary for the development of a homemaker cannot be held to the same 
conditions as those set up for training in a trade. 

Such a program for the promotion of home economics cannot be 
carried on without adequate funds. With the small amount which 
is available for home economics under the Smith-Hughes Act good 
work has been accompUshed, but under that act home economics will 
have difficulty in developing as rapidly and efficiently as agriculture 
and trade and industr}^ Homemaking will never be recognized as a 
real vocation for a large group of the American people unless a definite 
amount of money is appropriated for this great work. There are no 
funds appropriated in the Vocational Education Act for the salaries 
of teachers and supervisors of home economics. The Smith-Hughes 
Act provides that a maximum of 20 per cent of the funds available for 



266 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [June 

the salaries of teachers of trade and industry may be used for home 
economics, but it is left entirely to the state boards as to whether they 
wUl use this amount for homemaking instruction or use it all for the 
establishment of trade and industrial schools and classes. Further, 
the appropriation to the states for the salaries of teachers of trade and 
industry are apportioned on the basis of the urban population of the 
state. This works a great hardship in the case of homemaking train- 
ing, for 31 of our states have a rural population larger than their urban 
population. Trades and industrial pursuits are carried on in the 
cities, but homemaking is an occupation that is carried on by all of 
our people and the appropriation to the states should be on the basis 
of their total population rather than on their urban population. 

New legislation is needed to make adequate provision for a program 
of home economics education which provides for the estabHshment 
of courses of instruction in day, part-time, and evening classes. Such 
courses must be thoroughly practical so that the instruction will func- 
tion in the home and at the same time must give the homemaker a 
vision of the larger aspects of homemaking in relation to community 
needs and responsibilities. 

To summarize, the essential points to be included in any form of new 
legislation are: 

1. Provision for a broad interpretation of "the half-day of practical 
work on a useful or productive basis." Provision must be made to 
reach the groups of women who are employed in their own homes; 
the groups of younger girls who are employed either at home or in 
occupations outside of the home and who should be required to have 
some homemaking training; and the group of girls who are in school. 
This will require a broad phrasing so as to provide both the type of 
instruction needed and adequate time for such instruction. 

2. The appropriation of a definite sum to be spent for the salaries 
of teachers and supervisors of home economics education. 

3. The allotment of the appropriation for the salaries of the teachers 
of home economics to the states in the proportion which their total 
population bears to the total population of the United States. 

4. The appropriation of moneys for the administration of home eco- 
nomics education, which is at present not being adequately provided 
for. 

5. The provision that states which have already accepted the pro- 
visions of the Vocational Education Act, and have appointed the Treas- 



1919] PROMOTION- OF HOME ECONOMICS IK SCHOOLS 267 

urer custodian of funds, automatically accept the new provisions for 
home economics education. 

The Council of the American Home Economics Association heartily 
endorses the spirit and purpose of this bill and urges you as a member 
of the Association, or as one interested in the welfare and larger de- 
velopment of the homes of this country, to write to your congressmen 
and senators asking them to consider this bill and to vote favorably on 
the measure. 



The text of a tentative bill submitted to the Chairmen of the Com- 
mittees on Education and Labor in the Senate and House follows. 

A BILL TO PROVIDE FOR COOPERATION WITH THE STATES IN THE PROMOTION 
OF VOCATIONAL EDUCATION IN HOME ECONOMICS AND TO APPROPRIATE MONEY 
AND REGULATE ITS EXPENDITURE 

BE IT ENACTED BY THE SENATE AND HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES OF THE 
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA IN CONGRESS ASSEMBLED: 

That there is hereby annually appropriated out of any money in the Treas- 
ury, not otherwise appropriated, the sums provided in Section 2, of this 
act to be paid to the respective states for the purpose of cooperating with 
the States in paying the salaries of teachers, supervisors, and directors of 
home economics subjects, and the sum provided in Section 3 for the use of 
the Federal Board for Vocational Education for the administration of this 
act and for the purpose of making studies, investigations, and reports to aid 
in the organization and conduct of vocational home economics education, 
which sums shall be expended as hereinafter provided. 

Section 2. That for the purpose of cooperating with the states in paying 
the salaries of teachers, supervisors, or directors of home economics subjects, 
there is hereby appropriated for the use of the states, subject to the provisions 
of this act, for the fiscal year ending June 30, 1920, the sum of $500,000 and 
annually thereafter for nine years an amount for each year equal to the 
amount appropriated for the year preceding increased by $250,000, and for 
the fiscal year ending June 30, 1930, and annually thereafter the sum of 
$3,000,000; such appropriations to be paid to the states in the same manner 
and upon the same terms and conditions, except as hereinafter provided, 
as the funds now provided by the Vocational Education Act, approved 
February 23, 1917, for cooperation with the states in the payment of the 
salaries of teachers of home economics subjects, and to be in lieu of 
said funds; the acceptance of any state of the benefits of said Vocational 
Education Act being deemed an acceptance of the benefits of this Act and 



268 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [June 

entitling such state, upon compliance with the terms and conditions con- 
tained in this act and in said Vocational Education Act, to its allotment of the 
appropriations as herein provided. That the appropriations hereby made 
shall be alloted to the states in the proportion wliich their population bears 
to the total population of the United States, not including outlying possessions, 
according to the preceding United States census, providing that the allotment 
of funds to any state shall be not less than a minimum of S5,000 for any 
fiscal year prior to and including the fiscal year ending June 30, 1925, nor 
less than $10,000 for any fiscal year thereafter. And there is hereby annually 
appropriated the sum of $50,000 or so much thereof as may be necessary, 
which shall be used for the purpose of providing the minimum allotment 
to the states provided for in this Section. 

Section 3. That there is hereby appropriated to the Federal Board for 
Vocational Education the sum of $75,000 annually for the purpose of making, 
or cooperating in making, studies, investigations, and reports to aid in the 
organization and conduct of vocational home economics education and for 
administrative expenses incident to performing the duties imposed by this 
act and the Vocational Education Act insofar as the same relates to vocational 
home economics education, including salaries of such employees in the Dis- 
trict of Columbia or elsewhere as the Board may deem necessary, actual 
traveling and other necessary expenses incurred by the members of the Board 
and by its employees under its orders, including attendance at meetings of edu- 
cational associations and other organizations, rent and equipment of quarters 
in the District of Columbia and elsewhere, purchase of books of reference, 
law books, and periodicals, stationery, tj'pewriters and exchange thereof, mis- 
cellaneous supplies, postage on foreign mail, and all other necessary expenses. 

Section 4. That in order for any state to secure the benefits of the appro- 
priations provided by Section 2 of this act, the State Board for Vocational 
Education of the state, created or designated in accordance -ivith the provisions 
of the Vocational Education Act, shall prepare plans showing the kinds of 
home economics education for which it is proposed that the appropriation 
shall be used; such plans shall be submitted by the State Board to the 
Federal Board for Vocational Education and if the Federal Board finds 
the same to be in conformity with the provisions and purposes of the 
Vocational Education Act and this act, the same shall be approved; that 
any state may use the appropriations or any part thereof allotted to it under 
the provisions of this act for the salaries of teachers of home economics sub- 
jects in schools or classes or for the salaries of supervisors or directors 
of such subjects under a plan of supervision for the state to be set up by 
the State Board with the approval of the Federal Board for Vocational 
Education; that in order to receive the benefits of the appropriations of this 
act the State Board of any state shall provide in its plan for home econom- 



1919] PROMOTION OF HOilE ECONOMICS IN SCHOOLS 269 

ics education that such education shall be that which is under public super- 
\asion or control; that the controlling purpose of such education shall be to 
fit for useful employment in the home or other occupation in the field of 
home economics; that such education shall be of less than college grade and 
be designed to meet the needs of persons over fourteen years of age who have 
entered upon or are perparing to enter upon the work of the home or other 
occupation in the field of home economics; that not more than one-third 
of the sum appropriated to any state under this act shall be expended for 
the salaries of teachers in schools or classes for those who have not entered 
upon emplo\-ment, and that the teachers, supervisors, and directors shall have 
at least the minimum qualifications for teachers, supervisors, or directors 
determined upon by the State Board with the approval of the Federal 
Board for Vocational Education. The provisions of this section shall be in 
lieu of the provisions of Section 11 of the Vocational Education Act in so 
far as the same relate to home economics. 



It is interesting to know that one-third of the American soldier's 
rations (34.1 per cent) consisted of flour, 28.2 per cent of meat, 8.3 per 
cent coffee, 7.3 per cent vegetables, 6.8 per cent beans, 3.7 per cent 
sugar, 2.5 per cent milk, 1.7 per cent fruits. These figures are taken 
from records of food shipped from this country — our soldiers also ate 
fresh vegetables and fruits purchased in France. — Where the War Money 
Went. Treasury Department, War Loan Organization. 



EDITORIAL 

"Wages and the Cost of Living. There has gone abroad a wide- 
spread opinion that wage earners in spite of the high cost of Uving are 
better off than they have been for a long time because of the great in- 
crease in wages paid. It is worth while to study the resume of a brief 
study into the wages of women and the cost of living in New York 
City and Brooklyn, made by the Consumers' League of New York' 
in the fall of 1918. Comparing this with the report of the Committee 
on Home Economics of the New York Charity Organization Society, - 
one finds that the increase of wages for women wage earners is less than 
for families, yet of the families studied only 40 per cent had increased 
their income, 40 per cent had no increase, and 20 per cent had an actual 
decrease. It is to be remembered that this is a study of a small though 
fairly typical group. Probably we shall never be able to obtain exact 
figures in regard to all wage earners. Of individual workers only 31 
per cent had increased, 57 per cent had had no increase and 12 per 
cent had decreased. 

There are approximately 200,000 women breadwinners boarding in 
New York City. In their brief study the Consumers' League found 
3,016 girls receiving less than $12.00 a week. Of these, 45 per cent were 
earning less than $10.00 a week, 30 per cent less than $9.00, and 4 per 
cent less than $8.00. These girls were not beginners; 66 per cent had 
worked more than a year, 11 per cent had worked five years and over; 
41 per cent were graduates of the elementary schools, and 29 per cent 
had been high school students. 

In 1914 the official minimum weekly budget for a working woman 
in New York State was $9.00. This was determined by the New York 
State Factory Investigating Commission. Applying to this increased 
retail prices, as reported by the Bureau of Labor Statistics and others, 
the League finds that $15.00 is a minimum upon which a wage earning 

'Is This Living? Consumers' League of New York City, 105 E. 22 St., New York City, 
January, 1919. 

^ "My Money Won't Reach " Committee on Home Economics, Charity 

Organization Society, 105 E. 22 St., New York City, .'Vpril, 1918. 
270 



1919] EDITORLAL 271 

girl can obtain decent shelter, proper clothing, and adequate food in 
New York City. This means an allowance of $7.35 a week for room 
and board, including lunches; $3.60 for clothing; while laundry, car fare 
dentist and doctor bills, and all other essentials must be taken care 
of for S3.85. The report says: "These figures become even more as- 
tounding, in view of the fact that the press has led us to beHeve that 
ever>'one was receiving more-than-K\Tng wages, when we realize that 
the statistics were gathered at the high water mark of wages in 1918, 
from emplojonent files where trained workers register." Figures show 
that between 1914 and November 1918 the cost of living in New York 
State increased 62 per cent, clothing for women went up 112 per cent, 
food 65 per cent, fuel and light 25 per cent, and incidentals 62 per cent. 
"Shoes are S8.00 a pair not only to the girl who is receiving $35.00 a 
week in the munitions factor^', — they are $8.00 to the clerk who is still 
receiving S8.00 a week behind the counter." The Consumers' League 
found that S3.00 a week was the minimum price at which a clean and 
respectable furnished room could be had. "For running water, or for 
a gas plate for cooking, one had, of course, to pay more. If one paid 
less than $3 one had to choose either accommodations so dirty as to 
be uninhabitable, hall bedrooms over saloons, or skylight rooms with 
no windows." A study of the different types of restaurants showed 
that the same kind of lunch that cost 15 cents in 1914 cost 35 cents in 
1918. Many of these girls are not only supporting themselves but help- 
ing toward the support of others — under what conditions it is difficult 
to reahze. 

Many of the girls are hving in homes subsidized either by free rent 
or volunteer ser\'ice, or outright money gifts. A few years ago the 
Consumers' League encountered some girls who were paid so poorly 
by a manufacturer that li\Tng in one of these cheaper homes was a 
necessity. Investigation revealed that this home was supported in 
large part by this same low wage-paying manufacturer. "Industries 
which pay women less than a living wage are not meeting their own 
fixed charges, for they are subsidized either by the family of the woman 
worker or by her friends or by public or private charity, or by the 
girl herself in slow starvation." Examples arc given of interviews with 
87 girls early in 1919, that show "as pitiful deprivation in a $10 budget 
in 1919 as there used to be in a $6 or $7 budget in 1914." Of these 
87 girls 17 were not only supporting themselves but helping support 
others. One mother of 24 took care of her 9 months old baby and herself 



272 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOIHCS [JunC 

on $8 a week. "An aristocratic, whitehaired woman of 60 years," 
New England by birth, was never able to afford any lunch. "At 
the Home, where she lived six years, she is treated very kindly, and they 
'carry her along' when she is 'up against it.' Asked about the doctor's 
bill, she said the doctor refused to take even a Httle, and bit her thin 
lips, as she said, 'But that's not respectable!'" 

The ill paid girl finds it almost impossible to provide for any recrea- 
tion. This is to her as important a need as that for the bare necessities 
of Hfe, and its absence "plays a large part in the break-down of the 
moral stamina of young girls. It is the ill-paid worker, more than any 
one else, who needs recreation to break the monotony of her drab ex- 
istence. And as one old-young girl sadly remarked: 'It's easy enough 
to get some one to help you along here in New York.' In this tendency 
to break down the moral reserve, lies one of the greatest dangers of the 
less-than-a-Uving wage. " 

It is time that all of us waked up to the fact that the high wages 
of which we hear so much are very much in the minority, and that a 
large portion of women workers in our big cities are still undertaking 
to live for less than is possible if any adequate standard is applied. 



COMMENT AND DISCUSSION 

I should like to see discussed, in the columns of the Journal, the 
question of basement laboratories. These are often dark and unsani- 
tary and the environment even in well lighted ones reacts upon both 
pupils and teachers. 

During these reconstruction days new schools are going to be built, 
and architects and some Boards of Education still feel that the basement 
is the only place for the Household Arts Department of the school. 

A new school is being planned in our city. I suggested to the archi- 
tect that my work be put on the top Hoor. He was very indignant and 
said, "There is nothing else to put in the basement — you cannot put 
a class room down there." 

We have condemned basement bakeries and kitchens; cannot we do 
the same with basement laboratories? 

Louise T. Montgomery. 



BOOKS AND LITERATURE 



Any book or periodical mentioned in this department may be obtained throuEtb the 
Journal of Houe Economics if the Journal price is listed. 



Borne and Community Hygiene. By Jean 
Broadhtjrst. Philadelphia: J. B. Lip- 
pincott Company 1918, pp. 428. $2.00. 
By mail of the Journal, $2.15. 

The developments in the public health 
movement are dependent upon progress in 
education. The establishment of a deeper 
understanding of the purposes and methods 
of securing personal and public health carries 
with it the opportunity for advancement 
upon which communal safety depends. 

Students of home economics will find a 
vast amount of information, well arranged 
and excellently presented in this book 
by Miss Broadhurst, assistant Professor of 
Biology, Teachers College, Columbia Uni- 
versity. The scope of the subject matter 
extends from the consideration of bacteria 
and other microorganisms to health admin- 
istration. The ordinary problems of sani- 
tation are supplemented by modem dis- 
cussions of hygiene as applied to institutions 
such as homes, schools, and industry. The 
underlying bases for the prevention of disease 
are reinforced by a careful ejqiosition of the 
methods of infant welfare, the problems of 
middle age, tuberculosis, mental and military 
hygiene. 

The simplicity of the volume commends 
it, not merely to nurses, teachers, and 
mothers, to whom the book is dedicated, but 
to all who are interested in the methods of 
teaching the fundamental principles of per- 
sonal hygiene and public sanitation, together 
with their ramifications in social and eco- 
nomic fields. 

The presentation of a few problems at the 
end of each chapter adds disrinctly to the 
pedagogical value of the book, which is also 



enhanced by a glossarj' and a few selected 
references consrituting the appendix. 

Paper, t>'pe, and illustrations combine to 
add to the readability of the volume and to 
insure its popularity. The author has been 
successful in creating a textbook giving the 
gist of the health conservation movement, 
without sacrificing force or clarity through 
abuse of technical terms. Simplicity and 
accuracy, with brevity and lucidity, unite in 
making this authoritative manual most valu- 
able for general use by those seeking to im- 
part or absorb a general understanding of the 
relation of individuals or environment to the 
entire public health problem. 

Ira S. Wile, M.D. 

Dietetics for Nurses. By Fairfax T. Proud- 
Frr. New York: The Macmillan Com- 
pany, 1918, pp. 444. $2.25. By mail of 
the Journal, $2.40. 

Many teachers of dietetics have been un- 
able to place in the hands of their pupil nurses 
a book adequate to their needs. Miss 
Proudfit out of her practical experience in 
Memphis hospitals, has written a textbook 
that comes very close to that need. 

If, however, the nurses come to the book 
with no previous knowledge of chemistry, 
bacteriolog>', or foods, they will find the first 
section somewhat difficult to understand. 
The subject matter is good, drawn from au- 
thentic sources, and well presented. Recipes 
with total calories (but not protein calories) 
sample menus, and special diets that will 
j)lease the nurse are run through the pages. 
The tables are valuable and for the most part 
cover the ground. In the one showing the 
chemical combinations and sources, con- 
273 



274 



THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS 



[June 



fusion ■n'ill arise from so grouping the mineral 
salts as to make it appear as though nitrogen 
and phosphorus were the only ones, and as 
though iron, calcium, and the others be- 
longed to another class. 

The book is divided into three sections: 
1. Food and its significance — "a compre- 
hensive study of the sources of food, its com- 
position and nutritive value," 2. The 
human machine and its relation to food — 
"the effect of food in the body under normal 
conditions." 3. Nutrition in disease — "The 
effect and behavior of food when conditions 
are not normal." 

A chapter on urinalysis is inserted and is 
a well-advised departure. The matter of care 
and feeding during motherhood is given 
adequate space. There is no special dis- 
tinction between dietetics and nutrition, 
but those terms have not yet been stand- 
ardized. .Altogether, the nurse really 
interested will be glad to have this addition 
to her library. 

Alice Clorinda Walton. 

Lessons in Cookery: Food Economy. By 
Fkaxces Eliz.abeth Stewart. Chicago 
and New York: Rand McNally & Co., 
1918, pp. 250. $1.25. By mail of the 
Journal, $1.35. 

This book is a distinctly original contri- 
bution to the growing list of home economics 
publications. It has undoubted value when 
considered as a cook book containing timely 
recipes and full suggestions for methods of 
combining ingredients, though these are so 
fully stated as to be almost confusing at 
times by their very detail. The summaries 
of the food principles and their functions in 
Part I, of the various methods of canning 
and preserving in Part II, of the wheat flour 
substitutes and of principles of marketing 
and budgeting in the Appendix save the use 
of a number of books or pamphlets. 

Though, from her several years of expe- 
rience in the teaching of home economics to 
high school girls, the author has had ample 
opportunity to try out various methods of 
teaching and to decide upon the one best 
suited to the needs of her students, the book 



is less successful as a laboratory manual for 
high school students; yet, according to the 
preface, the book is primarily intended for 
this purpose. 

The scheme of organization is not clear, 
though economy is, of course, the kejTiote 
of the entire volume. Presumably the well 
balanced meal is the "dietetic principle" 
involved in Part III, though by what stand- 
ards a meal is to be judged as to its com- 
pleteness is gained only by inference. It is 
suggested that the student calculate the 
total caloric value and protein caloric value 
in other recipes though no data for, or method 
of, such calculation is given. What purpose 
is ser\-ed by the menus which are found at 
the head of each chapter is not explained. 

It is stated also that the teacher will have 
an opportunity to develop the principles of 
cookery involved in the prepararion of the 
t>pical food stuffs, but it would seem almost 
inevitable that these principles would be 
obscured by their almost constant use in 
combinations in dishes rather than as a unit 
by themselves. 

Again reasons and principles involved 
in processes are not developed. It may 
be argued that this is a laboratory 
manual and that such material would be 
dealt with in supplementary discussion 
periods; but modern educational methods 
are opposed to the complete separation of 
theor>' and practice. The laboratory work 
should be for the purpose of illustrating the 
principles learned, and it would seem wise 
at least to allude to such principles in the 
text. Particularly' would this be true if, as 
it is stated, the book is intended not only 
for students but also for housekeepers who 
have not the students' opportunity for 
supplemenring the recipes. 

It is also stated that "little, if any, pre- 
liminary training in general science or cook- 
ery" is presupposed. In that case much of 
the work would be beyond the grasp of 
freshman high school students or of the 
average housewife, without considerable 
supplementing. Highly technical terms are 
used in some places which it is doubtful if 
even the senior high school girl should be 



1919] 



BOOKS AND LITERATURE 



275 



expected to know, such as "proteoses," 
"food hormones," "nitrogen equilibrium," 
"alkaline ash." 

As a compilation of facts and recipes tlie 
book has merit, but as a laboratory manual 
of home economics for high school girls it 
does not meet the requirements of modern 
educational ideals. 

Josephine A. Marshall, 
Teachers College, New York City. 

Diet and Health with Key to the Calories. 
By Lulu Hunt Peters, A.B., M.D. 
Chicago: The Reilly and Britton Co., 
1918, pp. 105. Sl.OO. By mail of the 
Journal, $1.10. 

Through a very clever combination of 
witty paragraphs and amusing marginal 
drawings, the author and her "small nephew" 
(the illustrator) entice even the disinterested 
reader to follow their lead through nonsense 
to reason. After the "Preliminary Bout" 
there follo%v definitions and lists of 100-caI- 
orie portions of foods, and suggestions in 
regard to proper sleep and e.xercise. 

The object of the book is to induce each 
person to first find out what his weight 
should be, and how many calories and what 
kind of food he requires; then, by choosing 
that diet and taking the proper sleep and 
exercise, to attain the desired result. 

The book is a tonic rather than a text 
or reference, and should serve well the pur- 
pose of interesting those who either know 
nothing about proper diet, or refuse to fol- 
low the correct diet for themselves. It is 
not often that one finds scientific facts under 
such an attractive camouflage. 

Keturah E. Baldwin. 

Yarn and Cloth Making: an Economic Study. 
By Mary Lois Kissell. New York: 
The Macmillan Company, 1918, pp. 252. 
S1.60. By mail of the Journal, $1.70. 

The author has compiled an interesting 
analysis of the progress of invention affect- 
ing yam and cloth making. Both subjects 
are presented in a consecutive study from 



the simplest methods to those of the present 
time. 

The book consists of organized data and 
facts arranged in outline form preceded by 
descriptive matter to which cross reference 
is made. Each tj'pe is developed according 
to "Distinctive Characteristics," "Outline," 
and "Economic Gain." It is well illustrated 
and supplemented with a detailed bibliog- 
raphy of reference and illustrative material. 

The problems are practically solved, 
leaving but little to be gained through re- 
search, hence the advisability of its use as 
a college or normal school text seems 
questionable. 

However, it wiU be invaluable for refer- 
ence material for students of industrial arts 
and for teachers of industrial history and 
economics. 

According to the introduction the book 
aims to cope with present conditions but 
the content fails to fulfill this assertion. 
Ethelwyn Dodson, 
Iowa State College. 

Department Store Merchandise Manuals: 
Millinery.'^ By Charlotte Rankin 
Aiken. New York: The Ronald Press, 
1918, pp. 174. S1.50. 

The manual dealing with miUinery is, 
aside from its value for salespeople, unusu- 
ally good as reference material for high 
school or college classes in miUinery. Tiie 
chapters dealing with hat straw and straw 
braid, straw hat making, and felt hats are 
very clearly written, and deal mth these 
subjects in an interesting and practical way. 
From the standpoint of selection, the 
chapters on trimmings and on choosing 
hats which are well designed, well propor- 
tioned, and becoming are very good. These 
chapters present the quesrions squarely and 
(leal with them logically. .Although written 
mainly for salesgirls, this book is interestin,:; 
and valuable reading for students, and 
should help them to become more intelligent 
buj'ers. 

Margaret Kingery, 

lo'wa Slate College, Ames. 



• Reviews of other manuals appeared in the Journal, May, 191S, and February, 1919. 



276 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [June 

PAMPHLETS RECEIVED 

Issued by the Department of the Interior, Bureau of Education: 
Community Buildings as Soldiers' Memorials. Henry E. Jackson. Community Center 

Circular No. 2, January, 1919. 
The Cooperative School. William T. Bawden. Industrial Education Circular No. 2. 

Home Education. Ellen C. Lombard. Bulletin, 1919, No. 3. 

Issued by the Department of Labor, Children's Bureau: 
Advising Children in Their Choice of Occupation and Supervising the Working Child. Children's 

Year Leaflet No. 10. Bureau Publication No. 53. 
The Employtnent-Cerlificate System. Children's Year Leaflet No. 12. Bureau Publication 

No. 56. 
Rural Children in Selected Counties of North Carolina. Frances Sage Bradley, M.D., and 

Margaretta A. Williamson. Rural Child Welfare Series No. 2, Bureau Publication 

No. 33. 
Stay in Schooll A Message to the Boys and Girls of America. (Leaflet.) 
The Visiting Teacher. Children's Year Leaflet No. 11, Bureau Publication No. 55. 

Issued by the Federal Board for Vocational Education : 
Clothing for the Family. Bulletin No. 23, Home Economics Series No. 1. 
Home Economics Education. Bulletin No. 28, Home Economics Series No. 2. 
The Training of Teachers of Vocational Agriculture. Bulletin No. 27, Agricultural Series 

No. 5. 

Issued by the Savings Division, War Loan Organization, Treasur>' Department: 
Ten Lessons in Thrift. Prepared with the cooperation of the Social and Industrial Con- 
ditions Department of the General Federation of Women's Clubs. 

Issued by the National War Garden Commission: 
Food Drying Progress and Importance. 
Home Canning and Drying. Victory Edition, 1919. 
Victory Gardens Feed the Hungry. 
War Gardening and Home Storage of Vegetables. Victory Edition, 1919. 

Issued by the publishers listed: 

Americanization. Bulletin of the University of Wisconsin, Serial No. 973, General Series 
No. 757. 10 cents. 

Attractive Farmsteads. Agricultural Extension Bulletin No. 65, University of Minnesota. 

Buying Food. Outline with Bibliography and Suggestions for a Study Course for Women's 
Clubs. Compiled by U. S. Food Administration, Illinois Division, with the cooperation 
of Home Economics Department, University of Chicago. 

Child Life— Its Development aiul Care. Alice Ravenhill, F. R. S. I., No. 2, Series 1, Utah 
Agricultural College. 

Wartime Increases in the Cost of Living. Vol. II, No. 45, Industrial News Survey. 

Dividing Your Day and Your Dollar. Marketing Series, Bulletin 1, State Agricultural and 
Industrial League, Inc., Portland, Maine. 

Facing Clothing Facts. Marketing Series, BuUetin 3, State Agricultural and Industrial 
League, Inc., Portland, Maine. 

Health Center Number. Monthly Bulletin, New York State Department of Health, Feb- 
ruary, 1919. 

How to Organise and Conduct a School and Community Fair, .\manda Stoltzfusz. Uni- 
versity of Texas, Bulletin No. 1769. 

Reprt of Secretary, and Report of Foreign Trade Committee. National Canners Association. 



1919] BIBLIOGRAPHY OF HOME ECONOMICS 277 

BIBLIOGRAPHY OF HOME ECONOMICS 

PERIODICAL LITERATURE 

Foods and Nutkition 

Bacillus Botulinus. Georgia Spooner Burke, Jour. Amer. Med. Assn. 72 (1919), p. 88. 
A comparison of different methods of canning as to effectiveness in killing spores of B. 
botulinus. Methods of avoiding contamination. Description of signs of spoilage from 
B. botulinus. Method of making canned food safe. 

Science and War Bread. Editorial of Jour. Amer. Med. Assn. 72 (1919), p. 494. A 
review of some scientific contributions to such problems as control of the consistency, acidity, 
and bacteriology of bread. 

Auto-Intoxication. Walter C. Alvarez, Jour. Amer. Med. Assn. 72 (1919), p. 8. Origin 
of the So-called Auto-Intoxication Symptoms. A criticism of the prevalent views regarding 
the significance of intestinal toxemia, "auto-intoxication." Alvarez suggests other causes 
for the symptoms observed and insists that the popular notions concerning auto-intoxication 
have served as a "cloak for ignorance." 

The Dietary Properties of the Potato. E. V. McCollum, N. Simmonds, H. T. Parsons, 
Jour. Biol. Cliem., 36 (1918), p. 197. After a review of the literature on this subject, the 
authors report the results of their work, using rats as the experimental animal and employ- 
ing the same method they have used for three years in study of numerous other food stuffs. 
This method consists in feeding only the one natural food stuff under examination, supple- 
menting it with single and multiple additions of purified food substances (inorganic salts, 
protein and fat soluble A.) Problem is taken up with relation to value of potato as food 
for young rats during growing period — other investigators having studied the problem by 
methods involving only maintenance of nitrogen equilibrium in adults. The metabolic 
problems involved in these two methods are discussed, together with method of feeding iso- 
lated proteins from natural food stuffs. 

Influence of High Temperatures and Dilute Alkalies on the Antineuritic Properties 
of Foods. Amy L. Daniels and N. I. McClurg, Jour. Biol. Chem., 37 (1919), p. 201. Foods 
used were cabbage and soy and navj' beans. Work was planned so as to reproduce actual 
home cooking conditions as nearly as possible, as to temperature and alkali added. Cab- 
bage and beans cooked in water at 100°C., cooked in water at 120°C., for 15 min. and cooked 
in boiling water to which a slight excess of alkali (sodium bicarbonate) has been added. 
They also tested water extract of beans cooked under similar conditions. Authors report 
results at variance with finding of McCollum and co-workers as regards effect of alkali. 
Young rats were the experimental animals used. Casein, salt mixture, lard, butter fat, 
com starch, and filter paper were used to supplement the diet, so that only limiting factor 
was the water soluble vitamine. 

Miscellaneous 

Influenza — Some Interesting though Unsuccessful Attempts to Transmit Influenza 
Experimentally. Pub. Health Rcpt., 34:33, Jan. 10, 1919. Attempts were made to trans- 
mit influenza to a large group of volunteers by a wide variety of methods such as by inocu- 
lations of cultures from secretions of air passages of patients; by supposedly infected sprays 
and swabs; by close association wnth patients coughing and sneezing; and by direct sub- 
cutaneous injections of filtered secretions and blood. Not one of the many volunteers 
developed influenza. The hypothesis is advanced that uncomplicated influenza may be 
infectious only in the earliest stages of the attack. 



278 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [June 

The Effect of Industrial Employment on Maternity. "Current Comment" review. 
Jour. Amer. Med. Assn., 72 (1919), p. 349. Quoted from Monthly Labor Reolew, November 
1918. Bureau of Labor Statistics, U. S. Dept. of Labor. The influence of "unpaid domes- 
tic labor" as well as industrial occupation, upon capacity for successful maternity, is dis- 
cussed. The data, however, is held to be not broad enough upon which to base definite 
conclusions. 

The "Health Rate" of a Nation. Editorial, Jour. Amer. Med. Assn., 72 (1919) p. 346. 
The "Health Rate" is emphasized by Keith in contrast to the birth rate and the death rate. 
The part played by eugenics and euthenics. The place of the wounded combatant. 

Syphilis and Matrimony. Ed. Pisko, N. Y. Med. Jour., Dec. 14, 1918. Discussion of 
how long after treatment marriage can be safe. 

Constipation Treatment of Pneumonia. Ed. E. Cornwall, N. Y. Med. Jour., Dec. 
21, 1918. Harm of artificial evacuations. Use of a diet with little residue. Heart 
stimulation. 

Treatment of Chronic Rheumatism by Intravenous Injections of Colloidal Sulphur. 
Editorial. N. Y. Med. Jour., Dec. 21, 1918. Sulphur is a necessary constituent of body 
structures and rheumatism is a disease of nutrition. 

Preventive Medicine and the Reconstruction of the Race. Fred. Patterson, N. Y. 
Med. Jour., Dec. 28, 1918. 38% of first selective draft was physically or mentally defective. 
75% of 22,000,000 school children show physical defects. Gives a comparison of amount 
of money e-xpended by Government Industries and Children's Bureau. 

Good Posture. J. F. Rogers, N. Y. Med. Jour., Jan. 4, 1919. What is good and bad 
posture? Causes and cures. 

A report on Goitre among Drafted Men from the North-west. Brendel and Helm, 
Arch. Int. Med. Jan. 1919. Definite goitre districts in Oregon, Montana, and probably 
Nevada. Locality is of greater importance than family tendency. Many cases toxic; 
tendency to nephritis. 

Prevention of Simple Goitre. Second paper. Kimball and Marine. Arch. Int. Med. 
July 15, 1918. Favorable report of administration of two grams sodium iodide in 0.2 g. 
doses to younger grades of school children of Akron, O.; 0.4 g. doses to older grades. 26% 
those having a normal goitre and not taking iodide showed definite enlargement; one-tliird 
of those shon-ing small goitres, disappeared; one-third of moderate goitres decreased 2 cm.; 
0.5% developed iodide rash, which cleared up. 

Pituitary Headaches. Pardee, Arch. Int. Med., Feb. 15, 1918. Headache deep in fore- 
head, behind eyes; a tightness, dazed, accentuated by excitement, stooping over, upon in- 
gestion of sugar. Marked fatigue follows; comes during menses. Treatment, pituitary 
preparations. 

Textiles and Clothing 

Stabilization of Cotton Reflected in New Goods Prices. Dry Goods Economist, Mar., 1919. 
Conditions in Linen Field. Dry Goods Economist, Mar., 1919. 
Clothing Abroad. Tcxlile World Jour., Apr. 5, 1919. 
The Wisdom of Blue Serge. Miriam Grose Robins, Vogue, Apr. 15, 1919. 
Woolen and Worsted Goods. Fashion Reviev), May, 1919. 
Fabrics from Nettle and Hemp. Textile World Jour., Mar. 1, 1919. 
Suggestions for Selecting Curtains and Over Drapes. Dry Goods Economist, Mar. 15, 
1919. 
What's \^Tiat in Linens of Today. Hanna Tachan, Pictorial Revieia, April 1919. 
Luxury Tax. Dry Goods Economist, Apr. 5, 1919. 



NEWS FROM THE FIELD 



Institution Administration Round Ta- 
ble, Teachers College, Columbia Uni- 
versity. A Round Table on Institution 
Administration arranged by Miss Emma 
H. Gunther brought together a large num- 
ber of people interested in different phases 
of administrative work in institutions in 
the East. The varied tv'pes of work 
represented were a revelation to many. 
It was not the usual formal conference; 
instead short reports were presented, as 
shown on the program given below. The 
Round Table afforded the opportunity 
for the meeting of workers in the various 
fields and for the exchange of e.xperiences. 

A number of colleges offering courses in 
Institution JIanagement were represented, 
including Pratt Institute, Simmons College, 
Cornell University, University of Wisconsin, 
Battle Creek, and the University of Chicago. 
A large number of colleges are responding to 
the demand for training in Institution Man- 
agement, and are therefore asking for instruc- 
tors and organizers of such departments. 

At the opening meeting, on Friday, April 
4, Dr. Bigelow extended a cordial welcome 
on behalf of Teachers College. In the eve- 
ning, Professor Nutting brought a message of 
inspiration to all workers, pointing out that 
the activities in these institutions lay at the 
very root of human needs and that all should 
appreciate and understand the big essential 
things for which this work was created. 

The Friday program was as follows: 

Afternoon: Special Types of Administrative 
Work — Chairman, Helen HoUister, Pratt In- 
stitute. Cafeteria Management and Welfare 
Work for Employees- — Mrs. Marion Shafer, 
National Bank of Commerce, New York 
City; What the Management of a Woman's 
Club Involves— Miss Eyre, New Century 
Club, Philadelphia, and Mildred Barber, 
Woman's City Club, Boston; Developments 



in School Lunch Work — Daisy Treen, Direc- 
tor of High School Lunches, Boston; Newer 
Developments in My Work as a Hospital 
Dietitian — Charlotte Addison, Post Graduate 
Hospital, New York City; A Problem in 
Accounting — Leila Johnson, Instructor in In- 
stitution Accounts, Teachers College; Busi- 
ness of a Tea Room — Miss Freese, Colonial 
Tea Room, New York City; Administration 
of a Food Shop — Ella Emerson, Food Shop, 
Women's Educational and Industrial Union, 
Boston; Dormitory Management — Miss Ty- 
ler, Brooks HaU, Barnard College; A Field 
for Special Dietitians^Lulu Graves, Presi- 
dent American Dietetic Association; Prob- 
lems of Y. W. C. A. Cafeterias — Miss Tanner, 
Miss Williams, Miss Penrose. A paper 
summarizing work of the Dietary Survey 
carried on by the Office of Home Economics, 
States Relations Service, and the Bureau of 
Markets of the Department of Agricul ure 
was offered by title by Elizabeth E. Koch. 

Evening: Newer Phases of Institution 
Work — Chairman, Elizabeth Goodrich, Sim- 
mons CoUege. My Work as an Adviser in 
Cafeteria Management — Elizabeth Bohn, 
New York City; The Work of a Consultant 
for Households and Institutions — Mrs. Alice 
Dresser, Household Consultant, Boston; 
Supervisory Work for a Dietitian — Lenna 
Cooper, Supervising Dietitian, Surgeon Gen- 
eral's Office, Washington, D. C; Time and 
Motion Studies (lecture and lantern slides) 
- — Mrs. Frank Gilbreth, Author of "Scientific 
Management," Providence, R. I. 

On Saturday morning two group con- 
ferences were held, one for hospital dieti- 
tians, led by Eleanor Wells, the second 
for those interested in other tj'pes of ad- 
ministrative work, the discussion led by 
Katharine Fisher. Reports were given by 
directors of school lunch rooms, industrial 
cafeterias, dormitories, and clubs. The ques- 
279 



280 



THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS 



[June 



tion of apprenticeship work and practice 
fields for the inexperienced graduate brouglit 
a very spirited discussion, showing that this 
is one of the very vital problems confronting 
those interested in sending competent direc- 
tors into the field. Many expressed a wish 
that this Round Table be repeated next year 
as, through it, workers in these fields nught 
keep in touch with one another and with 
more recent developments in administrative 
activities. 

Fellowships in Home Economics. The 
Department of Home Economics of the Uni- 
versity of Chicago has a fund for the year 
1919-1920 for University fellowships m 
Home Economics. Two will probably be 
awarded. Candidates must already have 
done some graduate work in an institution 
of high standing. At least part of the time 
of the fellows is to be spent in research m 
nutrition or related fields. The work may 
be counted toward advanced degrees. 

Applications with recommendations and 
statement of training and experience should 
be sent to the Chairman of the Home Eco- 
nomics Department before July 20. 

A Scholarship in Home Econoniics for 
juniors, seniors, and graduate students is 
being offered for the year 1919-1920 by the 
University of Wisconsin chapter of Omicron 
Nu. This scholarship pays S200.00 and is 
open for applications. Award will be based 
on scholarship, general character, and finan- 
cial need. 

The Division of Home Economics of 
the University of Minnesota has just 
enlarged the activities of its Home Manage- 
ment houses to include the care of babies. 
A baby will Uve in each house and for the 
twelve weeks of the spring quarter will be 
cared for entirely by the students in tlie 
houses. The financing of the project is 
being undertaken for the present by the 
College Home Economics Association. 

The University of Illinois, in addition 
to the regular summer courses in Home 
Economics, is holding this summer a school 
for extension workers, and also a school for 
the training of Smith-Hughes teachers. 



The Ellen H. Richards Memorial Fel- 
lowship, offered jointly by the Trustees 
of the Memorial Fund and the University 
of Chicago, has been awarded to Elizabeth 
Wilhehnina MiUer. Her academic record 
is as foUows: University of Chicago, Ph.B., 
1914; A.M., 1915; Instructor in Home 
Economic, State Normal College, Mayville, 
N.D., 1912-13; Instructor in Home Econom- 
ic^, University of Chicago, 1915-18; Asso- 
ciate Professor and Head of Household Sci- 
ence Department, Iowa State College of 
Agriculture, 1918-19. Miss MiUer did edi- 
torial work in the Home Economics Section 
of the Food Administration, Washington, 
D. C, during the autumn of 1917. She is 
joint author with Mr. Emery and Mr. Boyn- 
ton of a LaboratoP.' Manual of Applied 
Chemistry, and has published the following 
articles: "The Solurion of Antunony from 
Enameled Cooking Utensils;" "A Home 
Made Soy Bean Meal for Diabetics" (_wi^ 
Lydia Roberts) ; ' ' problems in Cake Jilaking' ' 
(with Bemice Allen). Miss MiUer is to 
spend the year 1919-20 in carrying on nu- 
trition studies in the University of Chicago. 



Notes. Miss E. Grace McCullough has 
resigned her position at the Peter Bent 
Brigham Hospital, Boston, to take effect 
June 1, 1919. She has the honor of an 
appointment by the Rockefeller Foundation, 
China Medical Board, to develop the dietary 
work at the Peking Medical College and to 
organize the dietary department of the new 
hospital now in the course of construction. 
She will select equipment for the hospital 
before sailing, August 10, from San Francisco. 

Dr. Sophonisba Preston Breckinridge, 
Assistant Professor of Social Economy in 
the University of Chicago, who ^nU give 
courses during the coming Summer Quarter 
on "Family Expenditures" and "The Child 
and the State," has accepted an invitation 
to address the first conference of housewives 
to be held at the University of Iowa, June 
18-22. Dr. Breckinridge is one of the au- 
thors of "The :Modern Household" as weU 
as of "Truancy and Non-Attendance in the 
Chicago Schools." 



Vol. XI. No. 7 July, 1919 

THE 

Journal of Home Economics 

For those interested in Ilomeinaking, Institution Management, 
and Educational Work in Home Economics 

Mrs. Auce P. Norton. Editor Keturah E. Baldwin, Business Editor 

Editorial Board 
Mrs. Mary H. Abel C. F. Langworthy Ethelwyn Miller Rqth Wheeleb Ain- Daniels 

Ex-Oficio Members — Edna N. White, President American Home Economics Association 
Elsie Leonard, Chairman Institution Economics Section 
Katherine Blunt, Chainnan Science Section 
M.A.MIE Bunch, Chainnan Extension Education Section 
M.ABEL Trilling, Chairman Textile Section 

CoUaborators—Tht Officers, Members of the Council, and Advisors 



CONTENTS 

The Nutritional Standards of Adolescence Graham Lusk 281 

Recent Advances in Our Knowledge of Food Selection and Prekmsation 

Mabel T. Wdlman 288 

Home DEiiONSTKATiCN Schools and Short Courses in Floisdia . . . Sarah W. Partridge 296 

Related Art for Houe Economics Courses in Smith-Hughes Schools . Harriet Goldstein 300 

Worthy Home Membership 306 

For the Homemaker 

Food on an .-Vrgentine Ranch — Long Ago 307 

A Simple Guide for Planning Meals ... Emma Coiilcy 310 

Divide your Food Dollar into Fifths 311 

Changes dj the Cost of Living 311 

The Use of Weight Standards in Handling Food Products . . . E. H. S. Bailey 312 

.\ Baby Aristocracy 314 

Child Health Alphabet Mrs. Frederick Peterson 315 

Editorial 317 

Books ant) Literature 319 

Books Recehed 321 

Pamphlets Received 322 

Bibliography of Home Economics 323 

News from the Field 325 



The Journal of Home Economics is published monthly by the American Home Economics Association, 

$2.00 A YEAR. FOREIGN $2.35. CANADIAN $2.20. SINGLE COPIES 25 CENTS 

HOW TO REMIT. Remittances should be sent by Check, Express Order or Postal Money Order, p.iyablc to the 
American Home Economics Association. Currency, unless mailed in a registered letter, is at the sender's risk. 

NOTICE. When payment is made by check no receipt will be sent unless requested. 

CHANGE I.M ADDRESS. Notice of change in address should be sent Two Weeks before Ihe date ofissue on which 
the change is to take effect. The subscriber's Old .address should be clearly indicated in addition to the New Address. 

AMERICAN HOME ECONOMICS ASSOCIATION 1211 Cathedral St., Baltiuoue, Md. 

Toe Journal op Hohe Ecosomics is on sale at John Wanamaker's, Philadelphia; The Old Corner Book Store, Boston; 
A. C. McCIurg's, Chicago; Baltimore News Company, Baltimore; Woodward and Lothrop, Washington 



Reprints from the Journal of Home Economics 

10 CENTS EACH UNLESS OTHERWISE STATED 

Report of committee on personal hygiene, Ellen H. Richards 1904 

Report of teaching-section conference 1907 

Study of textiles, Nellie Crooks 1908 

Standardizing the Home, J. R. Commons 1910 

A review of lecent literature on domestic art, C. F. Langworthy 1910 

Relation of biological chemistry to Home Economics, W. J. Gies 1910 

Teaching bacteriology to mothers, H. W. Hill 1910 

Aspects of economics of importance in the household, David Kinley. 1911 

Courses in sociology in college departments of household science? G. E. Howard, C. A. EUwood 1911 

Household service as a labor problem, I. M. Rubinow 1911 

The home and the machine, J. Lebowitz . . 1911 

Control of insect pests in institutions, E. P. Felt 1911 

Uniform accounting for institutions, W. M. Cole 1912 

State and municipal documents on Home Economics. C F. Langworthy 1912 

Historical_ courses on the home in liighcr schools and colleges. Willystine Goodsell 1912 

A course in household economics, R. R. Andrews 191^ 

The visitiniihousekiLicr (4 pijiers). M. A. Nutting, E. H. Richards, F. Stern, E. Winslow, is cents 1915 

Indoor humidity, I„ R. Ingersoll jgjj 

Recent contributions to the foundations of dietetics, Ruth Wheeler I9I5 

An application of statistics to budget making for lunch rooms, Roxana H. Vivian. . . 1916 

Standardization of temperatures for cooking batters and doughs, Louise Stanley and May Wallace 1916 

Public health in the past and in ihc future, C.-E. A. Winslow 191g 

Recent work on normal adult nutrition, Katherine Blunt 1916 

The teacher and community well-being, G. H. V'onTungeln 1916 

Part time education in household arts, CIco Murtland 191 7 

The new dietetic treatment of diabetes mellitus, Lenna F. Cooper 1917 

The development of home economics. Isabel Bevier ' I9I7 

Recent advances in our knowledge of digestion and absorption, Louise Stanley 1917 

College residence halls, Edmund J James 1917 

A comparison of digestibility of starch in batter and dough. Amy L. Daniels, Leola Strickler. . 1917 

Report of the committee on correlation of chemistry and home economics in high schools 1917 

Practice houses for students in home economics, Lsabel Ely Lord I917 

A suggestion in regard to the preparation and use of caramel, G. P. Plaisance and Helen Monsch 1917 

Equipping a diet kitchen. Ruth McNary Smith ]9j7 

Some administrative problems in home economics in the public schools, Henrietta Calvin 1917 

Losses of iron in cooking vegetables, Kaihcrine Blunt and Florence Otis I9I7 

Club programs in home economics, Helen L. Johnson j9j7 

A home with an income. Annette Harvey ]9]7 

Old methods and new conditions (Drying and Canning), Jessie Hurd 1917 

The college course in home economics, Elizabeth Jenkins j9j7 

The housewife and the fish problem, Henry B Ward 1917 

Why the large calorie? Frederick .\. Osborn I917 

Sanitary surveys of institutions, C.-E. A. Winslow j9j7 

Studies of labor problems in household employment, Henrietta Roelofs 1917 

The American papaw and its food value, C. F. Langworthy and A. D. Holmes 1917 

The home guard. Flora Orr 5 cents 1917 

Recent contributions to our knowledge of food preparation, Louise Stanley 1917 

Some recent magazine articles on the standard of living, Lorinda Perry 20 cents 1918 

Increase in living costs, Helen Coombs and Elizabeth Bishop 15 cents 1918 

A cheap homemade soybean meal for diabetics, Lydia Roberts and Elibabeth Miller 19]8 

Dietary study at X'assar College. .Annie MacLeod and Marj' Griggs " i9ig 

The work of the dietitian in tlie Canadian MiliLiry Hospitals, Violet Ryley 1918 

A study of the cost of living of working class families in Roxbury, Mass., Sara H. Stites. 15 cents 1918 

What to teach the public regardini food values, E, V. McCollimi ]9]8 

A quick method of calculating food values. Caroline L. Hunt ]91g 

Learning the lesson of ford ccnservati n, Sarah L. Arnold jgjg 

Teaching food values, C. F. Langw rthy 19]g 

Utilization of some nuts as food, F. .\. Cajiri 19]g 

A consideration of the canning pr blem, Elizabeth Genung ]9]g 

Home project work in vocational home economics in secondary schools, Maude G. Adams 1918 

Survey of agencies for the sale of cocked food. Helen Atwater '_ ]9]g 

Teaching the budget to childri n. Helen Goodspecd ' " 1918 

Problems in cake making. Elizabeth Miller and Bernice Allen 15 cents 1918 

Jew's'i dietiry problems, Mary Schapiro 15 cents 1919 

.A malrutrition clinic as a university problem, Lydia Roberts 1919 

Ol tlines on child care, Dorothy Reed Mendenhall IQIQ 

CiTtigradc Scale compared with Fahrenheit 5 cents 1919 

V's'tirg Hocsekeeping with the Jpistos. Ruth Bowen 1919 

Charges in food value of vegetables due to cooking, Minna C. Denton 25 cents 1919 

Budget Making. S. Agnes Dunham 1919 



THE 

Journal of Home Economics 

Vol. XI JULY, 1919 No. 7 

THE NUTRITIONAL STANDARDS OF ADOLESCENCE' 

GRAHAM LUSK 

An adequate food supply is the essential requisite of national exist- 
ence. If too little food is available the first to suffer are the old people, 
and then the children, though these are often fed with the food designed 
for the mother who sacrifices herself for the well-being of her ofTspring. 

Before the war great numbers of people were habitually in a state of 
undernutrition. This reduces the working capacity and diminishes the 
resistance to disease, especially to tuberculosis. Such a condition 
gradually undermining the welfare of a nation may be exemplified by 
giving a description of the food conditions in Germany, a knowledge of 
which has lately become available. It is stated by Rubner= that 
food difficulties first arose in the middle of 1916. One important article 
of food after another disappeared from the market or could be obtained 
only in homeopathic doses. Thus, the available amounts of meat, 
eggs, milk, and butter became less and less. Failure of the potato crop 
of 1916 led to the substitution of turnips in the diet, both in the cities 
and in the industrial centers during the winter of 1916-17, and from 
the effects of this diet, the people never recovered. There was insufii- 
cient milk for the children. The censorship of the press prevented the 
true condition from being generally known and people were taught to 
congratulate themselves upon their loss in weight. 

A secret inquiry made at the end of 1917 led Rubner to report to the 
Imperial Ministry of Health how widespread the evil effect of the war 

' Presented at the Children's Bureau Conference on Child Welfare .Standards, Washing- 
ton, D. C, May, 1919. 

'Rubner, M.: Berliner klinische Wochenschriji, 1919, Ivi, 2. 

281 



282 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [July 

diet had been upon the welfare of the people. The psychology of the 
nation had changed. The only thought was to obtain a sufficient quan- 
tity of food, albeit devoid of flavor; there was no initiative, only unpro- 
ductive depression. Children forgot how to laugh, to cry, or to play. 

Information reached London early in 1918 that the insurance com- 
panies of Germany had secretly warned the government as to the fail- 
ing health of the people, which was reported to be more disastrous in 
loss of life than were the military operations. This now appears as an 
undoubted reflection from the meeting described by Rubner. The 
latter states that certain highly placed individuals forbade a further 
prosecution of the inquiry. 

Kraus describes how hunger forms an excellent background for dis- 
ease, since anti-bodies are not produced as when adequate nutrition is 
possible. Hence, the tuberculosis death rate doubled during the war 
and reached the height prevaiHng twenty-five years ago. 

Kraus' relates that the food conditions affected women in such a 
way as to produce cessation of the menses, sterility, and reduction in 
the quantity of milk of the nursing mothers, which miUc was also poor 
in fat. The average weight of children at birth fell off. Cow's milk of 
inferior quality was given to children, for there was no longer any hy- 
gienic control. With the older children the evil effects of the one-sided 
diet became more pronounced the longer it was continued. A diet 
which was made up essentially of bread and potatoes proved injurious 
to children. There was a deficiency in protein, fat, and vitamines. 
The diet led to scurvy, tuberculosis, rickets, and anemia. Nervous 
diseases were aggravated and constitutional anomalies intensified. 

Reports have also come out of Germany showing how an absence of 
butter fat led to stunted growth and the affliction of xerophthalmia, a 
disease of the eye, both of which s>Tnptoms can be experimentally pro- 
duced in young rats in the absence of the fat soluble vitamine contained 
in butter fat. These stories are not German propaganda. An Amer- 
ican medical commission conducted an investigation into the condition 
of the children of Treves after its occupation by the American Army 
and found a retardation in growth of two years, children of fourteen 
having the physical development of those of twelve. 

In the Bohemian city of Prague a widespread presence of infantile 
scurvy is bitterly described by Epstein' as existing in the early sum- 

' Kraus: Berliner klinische Wochenschrift, 1919, Ivi, 3; Czerny: Ibid., p. 4. 
* Epstein: Jahrbuchfiir Kiiiderhcilkmide, 1918, bcxxviii, 237. 



1919] NTJTRITIONAL STANDARDS OF ADOLESCENCE 283 

mer of 1918. Almost every preparation for the welfare of the sick 
child had disappeared from the market, the rich bu>ang at high prices 
the "last bottle" of such a material from the apothecary. Milk was 
very scarce at a time when the farmers were freely using half their 
milk, which was so necessary for sick children, in the preparation of 
butter. It is well known that this kind of profiteering had long been 
prevented in England. 

These details are cited in order to emphasize the necessity of such 
an organization of agriculture or of food supply that the national welfare 
of a country be maintained. That such an organization is incompatible 
with industrial disorder is a self-evident proposition. 

Both the quality and the quantity of food should be considered. 
Children should receive a diet containing a sufficient quantity of vita- 
mines. Of fundamental importance for growth and good health is the 
butter fat contained in milk or taken separately in the form of cream or 
butter. This has been set forth above. Stunted rats which have been 
long deprived of this substance grow to normal size when it is added to 
an otherwise adequate diet, so that it may be presumed that, ^vith the 
administration of butter fat to children whose growth has been retarded, 
normal growth will be obtained. Pork fat and vegetable oils, like 
olive oil, do not contain the fat soluble vitamine and cannot take the 
place of milk. Beef, eggs, liver, and kidneys are, however, quite rich 
in this material, and it is present in spinach, lettuce, beet-tops, and the 
like. Olive oil taken with lettuce or beet-tops may take the place of 
milk in the diet of adults. Through eating the green substances of the 
field the cow gains for her milk this growth-promoting, life-preserving 
vitamine. It follows from this that the milk of a cow nourished on 
clover from the fields will be of higher nutritive value than that of one 
fed from corn ensilage. 

If a food be given which consists mainly of highly polished rice, or 
highly milled grains, beri-beri, a profound nervous disorder, results. 
This disease has not appeared in war time in the European nations be- 
cause wheat has been milled at about 85 per cent or more, so that a large 
proportion of the bran, which contains the water-soluble vitamine, has 
remained in the bread. Beri-beri can also be cured by administering 
the aqueous extract of peas or rice polishings or of the evaporated salts 
of milk. When a child can receive an ordinary mixed diet there is no 
danger in partaking of white bread. 



284 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [July 

Scurvy appears when the diet contains no anti-scorbutic vitamines, 
for example by using diets which are free from fruits, fresh vegetables, 
and tubers such as potatoes. The cure is found in lemon juice, fresh 
vegetables, potatoes, germinated peas, beans and lentils, and in canned 
tomatoes. Hess finds that the younger and more tender the green 
vegetable, the greater its vitamine content, hence an instinctive dietetic 
preference. 

The question of vitamines for the welfare of the children is bound up 
in the development of dairy fanning, fruit culture, and the production 
of fresh vegetables. 

Furthermore, milk contains salts for the growth and repair of the 
bones, protein for the growth and repair of the muscles and other organs 
of the body, together with fat and sugar which give fuel for the main- 
tenance of the human machine. Very few people realize that the cost 
of milk per 1000 calories is usually only one-half the cost of beef. Thus, 
in Paris on September 1, 1918, 1000 calories cost, as milk 98 centimes 
(equals 17 cents), as beef 175 centimes (equals 31 cents); and in New 
York on January 1, 1919, 1000 calories cost, as milk 24 cents, and as 
beef 45 cents. In Paris beef was 82 per cent more costly than milk, 
and in New York it was 87 per cent more costly. The controlled Lon- 
don market does not lend itself for comparison. On account of the 
great value and lesser cost of milk the writer has on other occasions 
urged that a family of five should not buy meat until it has purchased 
three quarts of milk daily. 

Milk is wanting in iron and hence children should be given green 
substances whch contain this element, especially spinach which con- 
tains a considerable quantity. The yolks of eggs also contain it, as do, 
of course, beef and beef juice. 

The curse of the ignorant and poorer classes is the giving of tea and 
coffee to their children instead of milk. This is done in families in 
which meat is regularly purchased. There is not sufficient education 
for the parents to realize that milk is a cheap and well-nigh indispensa- 
able body-building food. It is not desirable to give to children or to 
adults the minimal quantity of protein compatible with e.xistence, but 
it is safer to allow protein in a certain excess of the actual needs in 
order that the tissue cells be filled up with protein. Rubner has called 
such material "the improvement quota" of protein and there is evidence 
that this descriptive terminology is justified. This, however, does not 
warrant the eating by any man of a pound or more of beef a day, meat 



1919] 



NUTRITIONAL STANDARDS OF ADOLESCENCE 



285 



which costs five dmes as much fodder to produce as does a similar food 
value in milk. 

With regard to a sufficiency in the quantity of a diet the question 
becomes involved in the number of calories necessary for the main- 
tenance of the living organism at various ages. 

Below are presented the relative physiological needs of food, in the 
first column as estimated by Atwater, and in the second column as 
adopted by the Inter-Allied Scientific Food Commission of 1918. 



Relaike physiological needs 








AGE IN YEARS 


AWATE« 


INTER-ALLIED 
SCIENTIFIC 

FOOD 
COMMISSION 


Child 


Oto 2 
2 to 6 
6 to 10 
10 to 12 
10 to 14 
12 to 14 
14 to 16 
14 to 16 


0.3 
0.4 
0.5 
0.6 
0.6 
0.8 
0.9 
0.7 
1.0 
0.8 


1 


Child 


\ 0.5 


Child 


7 


Boy 


83 


Girl 


83 


Boy 


0.83 


Boy 


1.00 


Girl 


0.83 


Men 


1 00 




83 







The British Food Committee of the Royal Society had computed that 
an average man doing an average day's work required 3000 calories, as 
ingested, or 3300 when the supply was considered from the national 
standpoint and allowed for waste. When it later computed the 
quantity of food available for their whole population in the five year 
pre-war period 1909-13, dividing it among the population in accordance 
with the relative values adopted by the Inter-AlHed Scientific Food 
Commission, they foimd that 3,410 calories had been available per man 
per day. With increased care in the use of food a national stock of 
3,300 calories per "man" per day appears ample. The earlier state- 
ment that a nation could live on what it wasted before the war has 
been abundantly refuted. 

The study of standards of metabolism has occupied much time during 
recent years. At the time of the establishment of the Russell Sage 
Institute respiration calorimeter in Bcllevue Hospital satisfactory 
standards for the determination of what constituted nonnal metabolism 
were nonexistent. From the work of Du Bois and his associates it has 



286 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [July 

been firmly established that the well nourished, normal, adult man, 
when resting in bed before breakfast, produces 40 calories per hour per 
square meter of surface within an error limit of about 10 per cent. This 
is known as the basal metabohsm. Du Bois found that the metabolism 
of boys between 12 and 13 years old was 50 calories per square meter of 
surface, or 25 per cent higher than in adult men. At this time, before 
the onset of puberty, the intensification of the growth impulse is accom- 
panied by a greatly increased metabolism when height and weight are 
regarded. Furthermore, Du Bois investigated the metabolism of these 
same boys two years later under identical experimental conditions. 
The metabolism per square meter of surface had fallen so that it was 
only 11 per cent above the average for the adult man. In the three 
youngest boys the metabolism was actually greater in calories produced 
during the twelfth year than during the fourteenth year, although the 
boys showed gains in weight of between 35 and 50 per cent. It is well 
known that a normal boy is extremely active at this period of his life. 
Investigations by Gephart have shown that American boys in St. Paul's 
School partook of as much as 5000 calories daily. Sir Henry Thompson 
collected data, prior to his death on an Irish passenger steamer sunk by 
a German submarine in the simimer of 1918, which showed an average 
consimiption of 3,500 calories daily by English school boys, even in the 
difficult days of the winter of 1918. At Eton and Harrow the spirit of 
patriotism at one time certainly caused too great a volimtary restric- 
tion upon the quantity of food taken and many boys lost in weight, 
often to the detriment of their health. 

It has been reported from Berlin'' that, in an asylum for foundlings 
in the third year of the war, an attempt was made to nourish three boys 
between six and eight years old with food containing 1 ,000 calories, and 
four other boys between eleven and fourteen with 1,334 calories. This 
may be calculated as being less than the basal metabolism of the chil- 
dren and the result was what was to have been anticipated, a loss in 
weight and in body protein of all these children, who were not only 
under height for their age but under weight for their height. 

Five thousand calories daily certainly appears to be an extravagant 
quantity of food to furnish a boy. It is 20 per cent more than the 
amount consumed by a soldier at hard drill. It would be very inter- 
esting to investigate the economic efficiency of the muscles of the grow- 

'Fuhge: Jahrhuchjur Kinderheilkunde, 1918, Ixxxviii, 43. 



1919] NUTRITIONAL STANDARDS OF ADOLESCENCE 287 

ing boy. Since his basal metabolism is higher than that of a man it 
is not at all unlikely that his muscular efficiency is on a lower plane, 
that is to say, that he may require more energy to walk of to move a 
bicycle a given distance than would an adult of similar height and 
weight. This point has never been investigated. 

A chart showing the food reqmrements of boys from birth to sixteen 
years of age, as calculated from all the material available a year ago,* 
will soon be published.' To this have been added the requirements 
prescribed by the Inter-Allied Scientific Food Commission; the require- 
ments calculated by Atwater; the actual consumption of food by rather 
inactive school boys, investigated by Carl Tigerstedt in 1912, reports of 
which have just reached this country; the reported food intake of Amer- 
ican and English school boys and of English school girls. 

In addition to this it may be noted that Ptlaimdler's' suggested 
corrections of the erratic, official dietars' for the children of Munich, as 
of January 1, 1918, are in full accord with the recommendations of the 
Inter-Allied Scientific Food Commission from the end of the lirst year 
to the tenth year of age. 

On reading the evidence it appears that much knowledge is lacking, 
much is needed to fill in the picture. There is now ample food in the 
country. For it there is paid by our people twelve thousand million dol- 
lars per annum, or one quarter of the income of the working population. 
Housewives are not organized pohtically, militant suffragists have no 
interest in the kitchen, but the time is coming when the importance of a 
more thorough understanding of the science of nutrition will be realized 
in the land. 

' Lusk, G. : Journal of the American Medical Association, 1918, Lxx, 821. The literature 
rcfcrencL-5 are given here. 

' The chart will appear in the Proceedings of the conference, soon to be issued. 
'Pflaundler: MUnchener Medizinische Wochensclirifl, 1918, Ixv, 173. 



288 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [July 

RECENT ADVANCES IN OUR KNOWLEDGE OF FOOD 
SELECTION AND PREPARATION 

MABEL T. WELLMAN 
Indiana University 

Most of us took the slogan "Win the War in the Kitchen" so seri- 
ously that all our thoughts were concentrated on the problems arising 
from the special needs of food conservation. Now we are, for the time 
at least, rejoicing in our freedom to use white flour and sugar again; 
and any article summarizing food conservation results would surely be 
passed by unread. Consequently no attempt will be made to report 
these results at this time. Later, when the reaction is less evident, 
we may be able to learn from those experiences a good deal that is 
applicable to the usual conditions of living. 

Leaving out such material, however, makes less than usual to report 
for the year. It is unfortunate that most of the work which is being 
done in this line in the different colleges and universities is not pub- 
lished. While much of it is undergraduate work, it would be excellent 
practice for students of different institutions to compare notes on results 
and receive outside criticism. It is to be hoped that some method of 
working out this plan will soon be formulated by the Science Section of 
the American Home Economics Association. 

Most of the extended work on cooking problems that was published 
this last year has appeared in the Journal of Home Economics. 
Nevertheless, it may be worth while to include mention of those results 
in this summary, together with what has appeared in more technical 
periodicals. 

Bread. Cohn and Henderson' report the possibility of improving the 
gluten in the flour and stimulating the growth of yeast in bread making 
by increasing the acidity of the dough. Acids, alkalies, and certain 
salts produce changes in the elasticity, tenacity, and cohesiveness of the 
protein, partly by modifying the swelling consequent on absorption of 
water. Weak acids, such as lactic acid or vinegar, can be added to the 
dough with good results, the activity of the yeast being greatly increased 
thereby. The amount to be added will vary with the amount of yeast 
used, and the length of the fermentation process. 

' Physical Chemistry of Bread Waking. Science, 1918, p. 501. 



1919] FOOD SELECTION AND PREPARATION 289 

The authors recommend determining this experimentally in individ- 
ual cases by testing the resulting loaf when baked. A few drops of 
methyP red are added to a slice of the bread. The solution is made 
by dissolving 0.02 per cent of methyl red in 60 per cent alcohol. The 
reagent is allowed to remain on the bread for five minutes. The acid- 
ity of the dough is right if the methyl red then shows no orange color. 

The writers conclude that the acidity of the dough at the time of 
baking is the most important variable factor in bread making. They 
point out that the proteins in wheat-substitute flours absorb more of 
the free acid than do wheat proteins in dough, thus reducing the natural 
acidity of such doughs. This would account for the necessity of in- 
creasing the amount of yeast to produce good results in substitute 
breads. 

The Connecticut State Station Bulletin' reports a series of baking 
tests conducted in several bakeries. A proprietary yeast food contain- 
ing 25 per cent calcium sulphate, 9.7 per cent ammonium chloride, 0.3 
per cent potassium bromate, 25 per cent sodium chloride, and 40 per 
cent wheat flour was used. As a result "not only half the normal 
amount of yeast (was required), but by using this smaller amoimt of 
yeast less carbohydrates were destroyed, and the presence of the . . 
. . salts, more particularly ammoniimi chloride, stimulated yeast 
production, with an actual increase of protein in appreciable amounts. 
Moreover .... this saving of food ingredients was secured 
without any sacrifice in the quality or nutritive value of the bread." 

Mrs. Norton in her address at the recent Home Economics meeting 
in Chicago spoke of the need to consider possible saving in communal 
cooking. Anice W. Whitney in^ "Communal Kitchens in European 
Countries" reports the movement for such kitchens successful in many 
of the recent warring countries. These make not only for the conserva- 
tion of food and fuel, and lessen cost of production, but give opportunity 
to the poorer classes to obtain both cheaper and better food. It would 
seem surely that at least bread baking could become communal here. 
A recent study^ of the percentage of famihcs, grouped by nationalities, 

' Henderson, L. J. Preventing Rope in Bread. Science, vol. 48, pp. 247-8. Cohn, 
Cathcart, and Henderson. Measurement of the Acidity of Bread. Jour. Biol. Chem., 
vol. 36, pp. 581-6. 

' Twenty-second Report on Food Products. Bui. 200 (1917), pp. 101-161. 

* Mo. Rev. U. S. Bur. Labor Statistics, 6 (1918), no. 6, pp. 58-63. 

' .\ Comparison of the Use of Baker's and Homemade Bread among Different National- 
ities in the United States. Jour. Uome Econ., vol, x, pp. 561-3. 



290 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS Quly 

who already buy rather than bake their bread, is interesting in this 
connection. 

Fats. Interesting work" on the absorption of fat in doughnuts made 
from varying recipes is reported from the University of Chicago. The 
conclusion is drawn that increasing the fat or the sugar in the recipe 
results in the absorption of increased amounts of fat in frying; while 
increasing the egg or the flour decreased the absorption. This, it is 
thought, accounts for the difference in the percentage of fat (21%) 
reported in the Government Bulletin on the Chemical Composition of 
Food Materials, and the 34.7 per cent found as the average fat in their 
"home made" doughnuts prepared from standard recipes. Cotton-seed 
oil at 200°C. was the fat used in fr\ang. 

Since there is still a shortage of fats for world use, it may be worth 
while to call attention to the article on V^egetable Oils and Their Use 
in Cooking.' The successful employment of these fats in pastry and 
cake, and in other ways, with consequent decrease in expense is noted. 

The housewife who must choose between butter and margarine will 
be interested in an article by Halliburton and Drummond' on the nutri- 
tive value of the two with special reference to the fat-soluble vitamine. 
This they find present in margarines made from "oleo oil" but not in 
those in which vegetable oils or nut butters have replaced the beef-fat. 
They state "It would be truer economy even for the poor to purchase 
smaller quantities of oleo-oil margarine if they cannot afford the luxury 
of butter." 

Cake. Also from the University of Chicago laboratory are reported 
experiments in cake making." 

"In cake making, manipulation is one of the chief factors in deter- 
mining the quaUty of the product. In an ordinary cake the method of 
combining ingredients is not in itself important except as it controls 
the amount of mixing and beating. There is an optimmn amount of 
beating that is desirable, from one to two minutes, depending upon the 
energy with which the beating is done. Less than that g ves a coarse 
crumbly texture; more gives a compact texture with tunnels. 

"The relation which the various ingredients bear to each other is 
also important. Increasing the sugar up to a certain point makes the 

' Fat Absorption in Frjing Doughnuts. M. A. McKee. Jour. Home Econ., vol. x, 
pp. 18-20. 

' Blunt, Jour. Home Econ., vol. x, pp. 23-26. 

' Jour. Physiology, vol. 51, pp. 235-25 1 . 

' Problems in Cake Making. Miller and Allen. Jour. Home Econ., vol. x, pp. 542-7. 



1919] rOOD SELECTION AND PREPARATION 291 

texture finer; increasing beyond that makes the texture coarse and 
causes the cake to fall. Increasing egg alone toughens the cake and 
produces tunnels with beating. Increasing fat alone makes the cake 
rich in flavor and tender. If used in excess, the cake will not hold 
its shape. Neither fat, sugar, nor egg can satisfactorily be increased 
alone beyond a certain point. All these must be increased together in 
such proportions that the effect of the fat and sugar on the one hand 
will offset the egg." 

Egg-substilute powders. The number of egg-substitute powders on 
the market everywhere makes one believe they must be a financial suc- 
cess.'" Analyses of a number of these show them to be composed of 
starch, a permitted coal tar dye for coloring, and gelatine or casein 
with occasionally a httle albumin. They do not, of course, furnish the 
nourishment of eggs. One such powder on this basis shows a package 
which claims to be equivalent to twelve eggs, but really is, in amount of 
protein, equal only to 1.7 eggs; in amount of fat equal only to 0.14 eggs; 
in fuel value equal only to 2.6 eggs. 

Baking tests" made with seven of these powders substituted in turn 
for the egg in true sponge cake gave failures. Moreover, the average 
selling price is more for a pound of these powders than would be paid 
for the dr}' material of hen's eggs at 40 cents per dozen. 

Milk. A reprint'- from the British Public Health Reports suggests 
that in present conditions in cities, especially in hot weather, it is often 
desirable to use dried milk powder in preference to ordinary milk. Dr. 
Mendenhall'- writes that little attention has been paid in the United 
States by manufacturers of dried milk to the advisability of putting out 
a product suitable for use in infant feeding and at the same time cheap 
enough to attract general notice. As yet very little of the best milk is 
dried and much on the market is made from an inferior quality of milk 
and contains bicarbonate of soda or some other alkali. She believes it 
should be possible to put out a good grade at a reasonable price. Os- 
borne and Mendel in an article on the Water-Soluble Vitamines in 
Milk'"" point out that baby food made by diluting top-milk and adding 
sugar give the child relatively too small a proportion of water-soluble 

'" Egg-Substitute Powders. Am. Food Jour., February, 1918. 

" Baking Experiments w-ith So-Called Egg-Substitutes. Am. Food Jour., May, 1918. 

"Am. Food Jour., October, 1918. 

" Powdered Milk and the Dairy Problem. Forecast, June, 1918. 

'• Jour. Biol. Chem., vol. 34, pp. 537-553. 



292 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [July 

vitamine, and think that while this may be sufficient if enough is taken, 
if the child's appetite fails the reduction of the vitamine may cause 
endless dietary troubles. They believe there is need for prompt inves- 
tigation to determine the best way to reinforce the vitamine content. 

Hammer and Goss'^ investigated the bacterial content of ice cream. 
They report that proper care of the freezer is of great importance in 
lessening contamination, also that there is usually a fall in the bac- 
terial count if the cream stands packed after freezing. They find water 
ices contain far fewer bacteria than ice-cream, and that ice creams other 
than vanilla contain large numbers of bacteria. 

Vegetables. In an article on the Dietary Value of the Potato, Mc- 
Collum, Simmonds, and Parsons'" find no extraordinary value in the 
potato protein for growth, instead, that young rats did not make nonnal 
growth on it until casein was added to their diet. Since other experi- 
menters have reported successful feeding of adults with potatoes and 
margarine practically free from protein, they make the interesting sug- 
gestion that the proteins required for growth and repair may not be 
identical. 

The elifect of various methods of drying vegetables on their \'itamine- 
content is important. '' Givens and Cohen show that cabbage dried in 
a blast of air at 40-52°C. retains only some of its antiscorbutic quali- 
ties. Dried two hours at 75-80°C. and then at 65-75°C. for several 
days, it has lost all of this property. Cooked thirty minutes and then 
dried at 65-75°C., both cabbage and potatoes have no antiscorbutic 
power. Fresh tomatoes,'^ which are a very effective antiscorbutic 
agent, when dried raw in a blast of air at either low (35-40°C.) or high 
(55-60°C.) temperature still retain a significant amount of their anti- 
scorbutic potency. Hess and Unger''' have shown that canned toma- 
toes retain their antiscorbutic property and have actually fed them in 
place of orange juice to infants living on pasteurized milk. This is of 
special interest when we consider the persistent use of canned tomatoes 
by the very poor. 

'^ Bacteria in Ice-Cream. Iowa State Bulletin 174. 

^^Joiir. Biol. Chcm., vol. 36, pp. 197-210. 

" Antiscorbutic Properties of Desiccated and Cooked Vegetables. Jour. Biol. Chcm., 
vol. 36, pp. 127-145. 

" Antiscorbutic Properties of Vegetables. Given and McClugage. Jour. Biol. Chcm., 
vol. 37, pp. 253-265. 

*' Canned Tomatoes as an Antiscorbutic. Proc. Soc. Exp. Bid. and Med., 16: 1-1918. 



1919] FOOD SELECTION AND PREPARATION 293 

It has also been found that vegetables dried in a current of air from 
an electric fan do not have the keeping qualities of those dried with 
artificial heat, or vdih heat from the sun."" 

Osborne and Mendel-' find a small amount of green vegetables sup- 
plying fat-soluble vitamine for long continued and vigorous growth, and 
say "if one may draw conclusions from the limited data now available, 
it seems that green vegetables supply an important addition to the diet 
of man," and suggest that care should be taken not to reduce greatly 
the quantity of green vegetables customarily eaten until we have further 
knowledge of foods." 

Given-- points out that there may be a loss of inorganic constituents, 
particularly of calcium, not only in the cooking of foods but also in 
the preparation of them for drying, and calls attention to green vege- 
tables as a possible source of calcium of hitherto unrecognized impor- 
tance. Further work,"" however, leads to the conclusion that the calcium 
in green vegetables is not so available as in milk. 

A new method of preserving^ fruits and vegetables is by the use of 
asphy.xiating gases (COCI2, CI, Br). The odor of the gas quickly evap- 
orates, and it is claimed that the product is perfectly wholesome food 
and that this method may supersede refrigeration. 

Canned fish. A leaflet^* intended for housewives living in suitable 
regions, urges the caiming of fish for domestic use. 

The examination" of 44 samples of commercially canned salmon find 
all sterile. Twenty cans analyzed for tin show it to be present in the 
fish in amounts so small as to be insignificant. 

Canning. Experiments have shown that the preUminary^' cold dip 
after blanching vegetables for canning does not affect the bacteria 
present nor influence the question of the subsequent spoilage. Miss 
Denton-' finds that with blanching, many more vegetables may be 
placed in the jar, but that with vegetables especially diflicult to can 

M Connecticut State Sta. Bui. 200. 

" Vitamines in Green Foods. Jour. Biol. Chan., vol. 37, pp. 187-210. 

- Dried Vegetables with Special Reference to Their N and Ca Content. Jour. Am. 
Med. Assn., vol. 70, p. 1743. "" Experiments on the Utilization of N, Ca, and Mg, in Diets 
Containing Carrots and Spinach. McClugage and Mendel. Jour. Biol. Client., vol. 35, p. 345. 

» Lo Menoco. Chem. .ibs., 1918, p. 1401. 

« U. S. Dcpt. Com., liur. Fisheries, Fcon. Cir. 28. 

« Bushncll. Jour. hui. and ling. Chem., vol. 9, pp. 678-9. 

" Bushnell, Influence of Cold Shock on the Sterilization of Foods. Jour. Ind. and Kng. 
Chem.., vol. 10, p. 432. 

"What Temperature is Reached Inside the Jar during Home Canning? Jour. Home 
Econ., vol. X, pp. 548-552. 



294 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS {J^Y 

there is a distinct disadvantage in packing too closely, since with more 
boiling water in the jar the sterilization temperature is more quickly 
reached. She emphasizes the wastefulness of not utilizing this juice 
afterwards, and gives suggestions which make it less possible "for two 
women using the same material and following the same directions 
with equal care and intelligence" to obtain very different degrees of 
sterilization. 

Jelly making. In Kitchen Tests for Pectin in Jelly Making,-^ Miss 
Denton reports the successful use of wood alcohol or of denatured grain 
alcohol for the test, but finds the Epsom salt method unreliable for the 
housekeeper. 

A Method of Preparing Pectin-' by its precipitation with ammonium 
sulphate should make commercial pectin cheap enough for practical 
use. 

Baking powder. A recent standard'" adopted by the United States 
Department of Agriculture makes the required available carbon dioxide 
12 per cent. This should give us more imiform products. 

Saccharine. An article by Burge" in Science concludes that sac- 
charine in food not only is a sweetening agent but, although not oxidized 
itself, one facilitating the oxidation of other food materials. This it 
does by stimulating the liver to an increased output of catalase which 
is the enzyme in the body chiefly responsible for oxidation. Burge says 
that Herter and Folin have reported saccharine, in the amounts that 
would be used, hannless; but he believes it should be positively helpful 
in the diet, particularly in diabetes, where the chief difficulty is with 
lack of oxidation. 

Various foods specially recommended. Various kinds of foods have been 
urged on our attention, some old, many more or less new. Langworthy 
and Hohnes'2 report the dasheen as desirable from the digestive stand- 
point. 

Soy beans contain, we are told in the Journal of Biological Chem- 
islry,^^ both the water-soluble and the fat-soluble vitamine, together 
with protein of high physiological value. The United States Depart- 

^^Jmir. Home Econ., vol. x, pp. 520-521. 
" Hunt. Science, vol. 48, pp. 201-202. 
'» Am. Food Jour., March, 1918. 
3> Science, vol. 48, pp. 549-550. 

^- Digestibility of the Dasheen. Bui. 612, Sta. Rel. Service. 
^ Daniels and Nichols. Jour. Biol. Chem., vol. 32, p. 91. 
Osborne and Mendel. Jour. Biol. Chem., vol. 32, p. 376. 



1919] FOOD SELECTION AND PREPARATION 295 

ment of Agriculture has put out a bulletin'* on soy-bean flour, and 
Roberts and Miller^ tell how to make soy bean meal at home. 

Peanuts"' also are especially recommended to our notice, as well as 
the banana." 

The Jerusalem artichoke,'* the American papaw,'' alligators,*" whales*' 
and seals, and reptiles*^ are all called to our attention as food products. 

In the Utilization of Some Nuts as Food, Lieutenant Cajori" dis- 
cusses the value of various kinds of nuts, while Drummond** writes, on 
the Nutritive Value of Certain Fish, showing that the coagulable pro- 
teins of the muscle tissue of cod, herring, and canned salmon have a 
nutritive value as high as those in beef, and that "fatty" fish may be a 
valuable source of the fat-soluble growth-vitamine. 

Perhaps no food has received more commendation recently than has 
milk, especially as an essential in the dietary of children. 

"Office of Exp. Sta. Circ. 113. 

^ Jour. Home Econ., vol. x, pp. 64-70. 

" Feeding Experiments with Peanuts. Jour. Biol. Chem., vol. 33, p. 295. 

Peanuts as a Great .Vmerican Food. U. S. Uept. .Agr. Year Book, 1917, pp. 289-301. 

Peanut Flour. U. S. Dept. Agr. Circ, 110. 
" Set. Mon., 1918, pp. 65-75. 

Jour. Biol. Chem., vol. 36, pp. 171-189. 
*'Sci. Mo., 1918, pp. 260-269. 
^' Jour. Home Econ., vol. ix, pp. 505-511. 
«> Scic/KC, vol. 47, p. 1226. 
*' Nation, March 21, 1918, p. 45. 
«.Sa. Mo., December, 1917. 
''Jour. Home Econ., vol. x, pp. 304-311. 
**Jour. Physiol., vol. 52, pp. 95-109. 



296 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [July 

PIOME DEMONSTRATION SCHOOLS AND SHORT COURSES 
IN FLORIDA 

SARAH W. PARTRIDGE 

Florida District Home Demonstration Agent 

Not all home economics teaching is done in the class rooms. For the 
past three years the home demonstration clubs of Florida have been 
studying in their monthly meetings well planned lessons, the outlines 
for which were prepared by the State Home Demonstration Staff at 
the Florida State College for Women. At each meeting the lesson is 
supplemented by a demonstration given by the County Home Demon- 
stration Agent, or some member of the local club. In January, 1919, 
the following announcement was made, and three courses were offered. 

In order to assist the women of Florida to learn the essentials of an eco- 
nomical and efficient diet, the Florida State College for Women, in coopera- 
tion with the United States Department of Agriculture and the State College 
of Agriculture, offers extension schools for housekeepers. These schools may 
vary in length from two to five days, depending upon the number of house- 
keepers interested. The school may be given independently or in connection 
with a home demonstration club, a Woman's Club or other organization. 
One or more State workers, in addition to the county home demonstration 
agent, will give the course. At the close of the Housekeepers School an ex- 
amination will be given those who care to take it. The Florida State College 
for Women will give a certificate to those who have attended 80 per cent of 
the meetings and successfully passed the test. If a home demonstration club 
is pursuing one of the regular home demonstration courses, the members may 
wait until the end of the year before taking the examination. The certificate 
granted does not guarantee the person certificated to be a skilled chef, but it 
does presuppose a knowledge of the fundamentals of the cookery processes, 
an understanding of terms used, and the reason for the choice of foods in 
making a menu. The club or other organization agrees to furnish a suitable 
room, a stove, a table, a few cooking utensils, and the food materials used. 

COURSE I — GENERAL CONSERVATION 

1. Sugar saving 7. Meat substitutes 

2. Use less fat 8. Child welfare 

3. Conserve clothing 9. The home 

4. Backyard poultry 10. Principles of cookery and pres- 

5. Fruit and vegetable culture ervation of fruits and vege- 

6. The use of eggs and milk tables 



1919] HOME DEMONSTRATION SCHOOLS IN FLORIDA 297 

COURSE n — WHAT KIND OF FOOD ANT) HOW MUCH IS NEEDED 

1 . Food and the war 6. Conservation of fats 

2. The day's menu 7. Milk and milk products 

3. Sugar and other sweets 8. Fresh fruits and vegetables 

4. Breads 9. Food for children 

5. Meats and meat substitutes 10. A well filled market basket 



COITRSE III — ADVANCED STUDY OF FOODS 

1. The human mechanism 7. Fats 

2. Fuel for the human engine 8. Food for children — Child wel- 

3. How much food is enough? fare 

4. Protein foods 9. School lunches — Food and care 

5. Sugars of adolescents. 

6. Starches 10. Economics of the food problem. 

There is no certificate granted for the completion of Course I. Clubs using 
Courses II and III are entitled to an examination on the completion of the 
course. All who successfully pass the test, with a grade of 75 per cent or 
more, will receive a certificate from the Florida State College for Women. 

Extension Schools for housekeepers are planned to follow the work as out- 
lined for Course II. If the club desires to have such a school, application 
may be made to the State Home Demonstration Agent, Florida State Col- 
lege for Women, Tallahassee. If the club desires, the examination may be 
taken at the close of the school or postponed until the series of programs 
has been given to the club. 

Course III is detailed stufiy of the chemistry of food and nutrition. It is 
planned for those who have studied some chemistry and wish to do some 
advanced work along that hnc. 

The courses are planned to be given consecutively. Differences in seasons 
or some other reason may make it advisable to give the lessons in a different 
order. The members of each club may select the course they wish, and 
decide on the order of the programs. 

In addition to the daily lecture and demonstration, special lessons in 
government bulletins were assigned for study, the bulletin "A Day's 
Food in War and Peace" being most generally used. 

To date, twenty-seven full time schools, in which the course of ten 
lessons has been fully covered, have been held. 1032 women enrolled 
for study; 97 have taken written examinations. This seems a small 



298 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS Quly 

per cent of those attending, but when one remembers the reluctance 
with which an adult who has been for some years out of the class room 
takes a written examination, the number is encouraging. The papers 
handed in were excellent. The grading of the papers has been done at 
the Florida State College for Women. Of the 97 who tried the exam- 
ination, 93 passed. 

Eight schools of three days duration each, have been held. During 
this time, six of the ten lessons offered were studied. Others will be 
held during the year. 

These schools have resulted in many instances in the organization of 
strong home demonstration clubs, which means a continuation of such 
study in monthly meetings, for the regular course of study taken up by 
the home demonstration clubs is based on a study of home problems. 

The Eighth Annual Short Course for County Champion Club girls of 
Florida was held at the Florida State CoUege for Women, Tallahassee, 
Florida, March 31 to April 12. Sixty girls, each of whom was a scholar- 
ship girl, were in attendance. They had made high records in canning 
or poultry club work in their respective counties, and had been awarded 
these scholarships by their local school boards or county commissioners. 
Each scholarship included the cost of travel from the club girl's home 
to Tallahassee and return, board during the two weeks, and laboratory 
fees. They varied in monetary value, from twelve to sixty dollars, the 
difference being caused by the difference in the cost of travel from 
various points in the state to Tallahassee. 

The girls were divided, for work, into three sections: Section 1, young 
girls from elementary grades, who did unusual work because they were 
exceptionally bright; Section II, club girls between fourteen and eight- 
een years of age who were still in elementary grades; Section III, ad- 
vanced girls in junior high school who had previously attended a short 
course. In addition to the daily classes in cookery, sewing, nutrition, 
and other kindred subjects which were conducted, special work in other 
subjects was given. Among the other subjects studied were: bacteri- 
ology in its relation to canning; basketry; the care of milk; the making 
of cottage cheese and butter; artificial incubation. An incubator was 
filled with eggs and cared for during the two weeks of the Short Course. 
The fine Rhode Island Reds that resulted from the hatch during the 
following week were given to the Practice House of the school of Home 
Economics, and the students are continuing the lesson in poultry by 
caring for them. 



1919] HOilE DEMONSTRATION SCHOOLS IN FLORIDA 299 

Not all of the time was devoted to work. An afternoon was spent 
by the girls as guests at the Governor's Mansion. While there, the 
girls were invited to cut as many of the rare blossoms from the beautiful 
rose garden, as they wished. Another hour was devoted to a visit to 
the Capitol, where the Legislature was in session. The club girls were 
received by the Governor and heads of the various State departments 
in their respective offices. 

The College Y. W. C. A. rendered valuable assistance in caring for the 
club girls. Among other things that they did they appointed a "Big 
Sister" for each club girl, who saw that no girl had time for a lonesome 
hour. The student body did much for their entertainment. 

One club member wrote on her return home: "I never worked so hard, 
or played as much in any other two weeks in my life." 

The Short Course closed with an evening program rendered in the 
College Auditorium. At this time, the girls received their Short Course 
certificates, and the Special Club Certificates awarded those who had 
satisfactorily completed four years of club work. 

There were four State Prize Winners on the rostrum: Pallie Matthis, 
State Prize Winner in 1914, who received her diploma from the Nor- 
mal School of the Florida State College in June, 1919, and has 
since taken up the work of a County Home Demonstration Agent; 
Eula Trantham, State Prize Winner in 1915, who during 1918 made a 
high record in both canning and poultry clubs, her profit from the can- 
ning club being S195, from the poultry club $210; Ethel Gibson, State 
Prize Winner in 1917, who is completing a course in a business college, 
using money made in club work to defray expenses; Agnes Williams, 
State Prize Winner in 1918, who is now a student in the Florida State 
College for Women, working her way through, and paying incidental 
expenses with money made in club work. Her record for 1918, was as 
follows: She harvested from her one-tenth acre, 3745 pounds of toma- 
toes, 119 pounds of onions, and then planted the plot in potatoes. She 
had an excellent yield from these. She canned and sold 1337 cans of 
tomatoes. Her receipts from fresh vegetables and canned goods were 
S185.24, expenses S65.77, profits $119.47. 

The sbcty girls attending were divided into the following groups: 
First year girls, 7; Second year girls, 19; Third year girls, 17; Fourth 
year girls, 14; Fifth year girls, 5. 

The broad scope of club work is revealed in the fact that it holds the 
interest of girls through succeeding years. 



300 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [July 

RELATED ART FOR HOME ECONOMICS COURSES IN 
SMITH-HUGHES SCHOOLS 

HAIURIET GOLDSTEIN 

University of Minnesota 

In the Smith-Hughes plan for home economics education, one half of 
each school day is given over to home economics and related courses. 
These courses include not only the courses in the clothing and foods 
groups but the related science and the related art. 

Through this Smith-Hughes plan it becomes not only the privilege 
but the responsibility of the departments of home economics to play an 
important part in art education. When the horaemakers shall be so 
trained in the ideals of beauty that art becomes part of their daily 
life, it will not be long before the effect will be seen throughout the 
nation. To accomplish this end the art teachers and the home eco- 
nomics teachers of the country should work together for some efficient 
plan for making art work function with the home economics courses. 
Without this cooperation we cannot have the highest type of work in 
clothing, in house plamiing, or in house furnishing. 

The subject matter of the art courses must be closely related to home 
economics problems, and the sooner the art problems can be carried 
over into actual construction the more vital the training will become. 
In all cases the art training should precede or parallel construction. 
To successfully work out such a plan the art teacher must get the home 
economics view point, and it is quite as necessary for the home eco- 
nomics teacher to have an art foundation for her work. 

The aim of the related art course should be to train the student in 
art appreciation, so that beauty will become so strong a force that it 
will be a motive in everything -she does. To do this there are certain 
fundamental art principles of which the student should gain such a 
practical knowledge that she will express them in her dress and in her 
home problems. 

She must realize that the art of a fine painting or of a Gothic tapes- 
try, for example, is just the same expression that she finds in a good 
chair or in a beautiful dress. If through these related art courses we 
can get rid of the old art school idea that the arrangement of objects 
on a canvas is art and that the arrangement of objects against a wall 
is house furnishing we shall have done a good piece of work. 



1019] RELATED ART FOR HOME ECONOMICS COURSES 301 

The elements of all art are color and form, and its fundamental prin- 
ciples are proportion, centers of interest, rhythm, balance, and harmony. 
The student should have a working knowledge of each of these prin- 
ciples, for, in every home problem in which looks as well as use are to 
be considered, these principles must be followed. The girl must make 
so many conscious applications of these art principles that in time they 
will function unconsciously. 

One way in which the high school student might be trained to under- 
stand and appreciate the laws of beauty is through the analysis of the 
objects all about her. She is already interested in the problems of 
dress and of home furnishings, and through the discussion of the art 
principles which may or may not be illustrated in these familiar things 
art will come to take on a vital meaning. 

Proportion, or the Greek law of relationship, is the first art principle to 
be considered. A sense of proportion is in a very large degree an ac- 
quired sense. There must be a great deal of critical study before one 
becomes sensitive to subtle space relations. The student must realize 
that richness of material does not count at all if art is lacking; for ex- 
ample, a chair though made of cheap wood may be a good chair, chiefly 
because its proportions are good, and another made of a costly wood 
may be a poor chair because of bad space relationship. She must see 
that a well proportioned water pitcher may have the same art quality 
that a Greek vase possesses. 

The principle of proportion is of the greatest importance in dress 
design ; and in passing, let it be remembered that the problem of con- 
servative dress which is concerning women Just now, is to a large degree 
an art problem and depends upon the application of proportion, centers 
of interest, rhythm, balance, and harmony. In planning a dress design, 
one should think first of the silhouette and then of the lines within. 
For good proportion the silhouette or outline of the dress should not 
vary too greatly from the fines of the figure, for if there is too much 
contradiction, there is no relationship, and because of this bad pro- 
portion there is a lack of conservatism. On the other hand, modesty 
and good taste demand that the dress shall not follow the lines of 
the figure too closely. 

Since various proportions or space relations have the efi'cct of chang- 
ing the appearance of the face and figure, one must study the outfine 
of the figure to see if there is any variation from the average, and 
then adjust the lines and masses. For example, the angular outUnes of 



302 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [July 

the too slender figure can be changed, apparently, by a broken silhouette, 
while one tries for the simpler outline where the figure is stout. With 
both of these silhouettes, there may be good examples of conservative 
dress which are at the same time adapted to the figure. If art prin- 
ciples are closely followed the dress will not look queer in a season or 
two. The student easily recognizes that the vertical lines make her look 
taller, and horizontal lines, shorter, but she often fails to carry the 
principle out far enough in planning collars, length of skirt, and waist- 
lines, for example. She must know that the square collar will have a 
tendency to make a square face look more square. The length of the 
skirt should be regulated by the proportions of the figure, and not by 
the fact that "they" are wearing them eight inches from the ground this 
season, or four inches as the case may be. A skirt looks shorter with 
low shoes than with high. Before she leaves the study of proportion, 
the student must see that too obvious space divisions are monotonous 
and unpleasant, and that subtle relationships have charm. 

The next principle is emphasis or centers of interest. It is easy to 
over-emphasize, to have too many centers of interest. That is true in 
some of the paintings of the old Masters. The student can see it easily 
enough in Raphael's "Transfiguration," where the picture is divided in 
the middle and her eye goes from one group to the other with equal 
insistence and does not know where to rest, but she is not nearly so apt 
to be sensitive to the same lack if she sees it in a home problem. It is 
exceedingly important for a successful design to have one chief center 
of interest. In a living room it might be the fireplace or a window with 
a beautiful view, or a fine picture, but the other centers should be sub- 
ordinated. It is a violation of the law of emphasis when a house appar- 
ently possesses two front doors. A caller will hesitate, then may choose 
the wrong door, and be ushered through the dining room into the Hving 
room. Just a little more emphasis at the front entrance would spare 
embarrassing experiences. A dress with many embroidered spots has 
the same effect of over-emphasis, making the eye jump from one place 
to another. This point can not have too much attention given to it 
in decorative needlework problems. One must not let one's enthusiasm 
get the better of judgment. Enough embroider^' may be used to add 
interest, but not to make conflicting centers of interest. In dress it is 
important to have the center of interest in the right place, near the face, 
not in a patch of white stocking, between a black shoe and a dark skirt, 
nor in a pair of white or light shoes worn with a dark dress or suit. 



1919] RELATED ART FOR HOME ECONOMICS COURSES 303 





The effect of the horizontal and vertical line in rectangles of the same size 




Tlie same figure with dress design showing effect of horizontal and vertical 
movements in line 



304 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [July 

No matter how beautiful one's feet may be, the face should be the 
center of interest. 

After proportion and centers of interest, one must think of rhythm, 
balance, and harmony. Rhythm is easy, consistent movement. A 
series of jerks, angles, and cross lines which leads the eye along a jagged 
path makes for restless or distracting movement. The easy movement 
of the lines of a good Japanese print shows this quality while many 
rugs and wall papers show its lack. One keeps the idea of movement 
in mind when hanging pictures. They should not lead away from, but 
toward a center of interest. Clothes which are so tight that they inter- 
fere with the rhythmic movement of the body violate this law. 

Balance or rest comes after rhythm. Balance is very closely allied 
with proportion. If all the proportions are correct one has this feeling 
of rest or repose when looking at an object. In lamps and vases which 
have a very small base the lack of this principle is easily seen, but how 
about the woman with a large hat, hea\'y furs, and a short, tight skirt? 
The furniture in the room will not be balanced if the piano and book- 
cases are at one end, and there is only a small table and chair at the 
other. 

Harmony or unity is the last of these five art principles and in a way 
may be said to embrace all the others — proportion, centers of interest, 
rhythm, and balance. There must be hannony in shape, hamiony in 
size, and harmony in the colors used together. The principle which the 
painter follows in the shapes, sizes, and colors he places on his canvas 
is identical with that used by the woman when she sets her table, ar- 
ranges her furniture, or makes a hat or a dress. The first consideration 
is shape harmony. When rugs and furniture are placed parallel to the 
walls of the room harmony is established; when they are placed at 
angles there is no harmony. When dresses are planned to somewhat 
follows the lines of the figure there is harmony. When waists are com- 
pressed to waspish shape, and bustles and leg o'mutton sleeves are worn, 
the laws of harmony are violated. When areas that differ extremely 
are put together there is lack of hannony in sizes. A large picture with 
a tiny one under it or next to it is absurd. In color harmony the stu- 
dent must recognize that there are three factors to be considered, the 
wannth or the coolness of color, its lightness or darkness, and its bright- 
ness or dullness. She will learn by studying good pictures, good in- 
teriors, and good dress design that large areas should be subdued in 
tone and that contrasts should be used only in small quantities. By 



1919] RELATED ART FOR HOME ECONOMICS COURSES 305 

studying the people around her the student will see that all can be clas- 
sified as warm or cool or medium in their coloring. Of course, this is a 
relative comparison, for flesh tones are always somewhere between yellow 
orange and red orange, but the hair and eyes have the effect of making 
the color scheme cooler or wamier. The red haired person, whose coloring 
is really red orange, is the warmest type and would, therefore, find that 
the warmer colors harmonize and the cold colors contrast with her skin 
and hair. Hence she would appear to best advantage in warm hues, 
as brown, or warm taupes, with cool colors used only as contrasting 
notes. There is one striking exception, however, for red-violet although 
one of the warm colors, is unbecoming to the red-haired person. The 
brunette also who is warm in coloring will be able to wear the 
colors toward the red end of the spectrum. The brunette with little 
color can supply warmth by using dull warm tones, and as bright colors 
have a tendency to put yellow into the face, she must avoid them, 
except for accents not used near her face. The blonde with a blue- 
white quality in her skin, blue eyes, and light hair is the cool type and 
finds the cooler grays, dull blues, dull dark greens, and dull violets more 
becoming. Tans and grays which are about the same tone as her hair 
and skin have a neutralizing efifect and make her seem all one color, 
giving monotony rather than harmony. The girl with brown hair and 
good complexion can wear the widest range of color. Usually she can 
wear almost any color that is beautiful in itself, if she uses taste in the 
intensity and values. 

The training in art might be accomplished in various ways, but it 
must always be kept in mind that expression precedes appreciation 
in art, just as much as it does in music and in literature. No effective 
teaching substitute has been found for the actual working out of art 
principles into material. There are many mediums which may be used 
to this end — pencil, or paint, or cloth, or the selection and arrangement 
of house furnishings. But whichever is chosen, in the last analysis it 
will be found that the student must express herself before she is able to 
gain appreciation. 

The experience a MinneapoHs teacher had while room-hunting near 
the University of Chicago promises to become a common one under 
this type of teaching. The young woman had come to the end of her 
list with no success and when she entered the last house it seemed hope- 
less; — red wall paper with huge figures, green rugs with more figures, 
and the general furnishing corresponding to these backgrounds. How- 



306 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [July 

ever, it was warm and she was tired and the house was near the campus; 
so she said she would look at the room. To her amazement she was 
shown into a delightful room; the walls were of a soft warm gray; a 
dull green rug was on the floor; simple muslin curtains were at the 
windows; and a few pieces of bright copper and pottery were on the 
table and shelf. Several days later a little girl came into the room to 
sweep, and the young woman had an opportunity to satisfy her curi- 
osity about the mysterious ownership of the room. Imagine her sur- 
prise to hear that it belonged to this child. She had had some house- 
furnishing in school and her mother had given her permission to furnish 
the room as she wished. This is significant of what we may expect as 
a general result of this Smith-Hughes plan, — in reality merely a good 
home economics plan. In short, the whole object of the related art 
course is to teach art through the problems which the girl will have to 
meet in her home. 



WORTHY HOME MEMBERSHIP 

Worthy home-membership as an objective calls for the development 
of those quahties that make the individual a worthy member of a family, 
both contributing to and deriving benefit from that membership. 

This objective appUes to both boys and girls. The social studies 
should deal with the home as a fundamental social institution and 
clarify its relation to the wider interests outside. Literature should 
interpret and idealize the human elements that go to make the home. 
Music and art should result in more beautiful homes and in greater joy 
therein. The coeducational school with a faculty of men and women 
should, in its organization and its activities, exemplify wholesome rela- 
tions between boys and girls and men and women. 

Home membership as an objective should not be thought of solely 
with reference to future duties. These are the better guaranteed if the 
school helps the pupils to take the right attitude toward present home 
responsibilities and interprets to them the contribution of the home to 
their development. . . . Some opportunity should be found to give 
boys a basis for the intelligent appreciation of the value of the well- 
appointed home and of the labor and skill required to maintain such a 
home, to the end that they may cooperate more effectively. — Cardinal 
Principles of Secondary Education. Bureau of Education, Bull. 35. \ 



FOR THE HOMEMAKER 

FOOD ON AN ARGENTINE RANCH— LONG AGO' 

As I have mentioned our famous pigeon-pies, when describing the 
dovecote, I may as well conclude .... with a fuller account of 
our way of Kving as to food, a fascinating subject to most persons. The 
psychologists tell us a sad truth when they say that taste, being the 
lowest or least intellectual of our five senses, is incapable of registering 
impressions on the mind; consequently we cannot recall or recover 
vanished flavours as we can recover, and mentally see and hear, long 
past sights and sounds. Smells, too, when we cease smelling, vanish 
and return not, only we remember that blossoming orange grove where 
we once walked, and beds of wild thjTiie and pennyroyal when we sat 
on the grass, also flowering bean and lucerne fields filled and fed us, 
body and soul, with delicious perfumes. In like manner we can recol- 
lect the good things we consimied long years ago — the things we cannot 
eat now because we are no longer capable of digesting and assimilating 
them; it is like recalling past perilous adventures by land and water in 
the brave young days when we loved danger for its own sake. There 
was, for example, the salad of cold sliced potatoes and onions, drenched 
in oil and vinegar, a glorious dish with cold meat to go to bed on! Also 
hot maize-meal cakes eaten with syrup at breakast, and other injudi- 
cious cakes. As a rule it was a hot breakfast and midday dinner; an 
afternoon tea, with hot bread and scones and peach-preserve, and a late 
cold supper; for breakfast, mutton cutlets, coffee, and things made 
with maize. Eggs were plentiful — eggs of fowl, duck, goose, and wild 
fowl's eggs — wild duck and plover in their season. In spring — August 
to October — we occasionally had an ostrich or rhea's egg in the form of 
a huge omelette at breakfast, and it was very good. The common 
native way of cooking it by thrusting a rod heated red through the egg, 
then burj'ing it in the hot ashes to complete the cooking, did not com- 
mend itself to us. From the end of July to the end of September we 

> From W. H. Hudson's Far Away and I^ng Ago. E. P. Dutton & Company, New York, 
1918. Pp. 198-202. 

307 



308 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [July 

feasted on plover's eggs at breakfast. In appearance and taste they 
were precisely like our lapwings' eggs, only larger, the Argentine lap- 
wing being a bigger bird than its European cousin. In those distant 
days the birds were excessively abundant all over the pampas where 
sheep were pastured, for at that time there were few to shoot wild birds 
and nobody ever thought of killing a lapwing for the table. 

. . . . Our dinner consisted of meat and pumpkin, boiled or 
baked, maize "in the milk" in its season, and sweet potatoes, besides 
the other common vegetables and salads. Maize-meal puddings and 
pumpkin pies and tarts were common with us, but the sweet we loved 
best was a peach-pie, made like an apple-pie with a crust, and these 
came in about the middle of February and lasted until April or even 
May, when our late variety, which we called "winter peach," ripened. 

My mother was a clever and thrifty housekeeper, and I think she 
made more of the peach than any other resident in the country who 
possessed an orchard. Her peach preserves, which lasted us the year 
round, were celebrated in our neighborhood. Peach preserves were in 
most English houses, but our house was alone in making pickled peaches: 
I think this was an invention of her own; I do not know if it has taken 
on, but we always had pickled peaches on the table and preferred them 
to all other kinds, and so did every person who tasted them. 

I here recall an amusing incident with regard to our pickled peaches, 
and will relate it just because it serves to bring in yet another of our 

old native neighbors His name was Ventura Gutierres, 

and he called himself an estanciero — a landowner and head of a cattle 
establishment. 

. . . . One of Don Ventura's most delightful traits — that is, 

to us young people — was his loud voice And so it pleased 

us very much when Don Ventura came one evening to see my father 
and consented to sit down to partake of supper with us. We loved to 
listen to his shouted conversation. 

My parents apologized for having nothing but cold meats to put 
before him — cold shoulder of mutton, a bird, and pickles, cold pie, and 
so on. True, he repHed, cold meat is never or rarely eaten by man on 
the plains. People do have cold meat in the house, but that as a rule 
is where there are children, for when a child is hungry, and cries for 
food, his mother gives him a bone of cold meat, just as in other coun- 
tries where bread is common you give a child a piece of bread. How- 
ever he would try cold meat for once. It looked to him as if there were 



1919] FOOD ON AN ARGENTINE RANCH 309 

other things to eat on the table. "And what is this?" he shouted, 
pointing dramatically at a dish of large, very green-looking pickled 
peaches. Peaches — peaches in winter! This is strange indeed! 

It was explained to him that they were pickled peaches, and that it 
was the custom of the house to have them on the table at supper. He 
tried one with his cold mutton, and was presently assuring my parents 
that never in his life had he partaken of anything so good — so tasty, so 
appetizing, and whether or not it was because of the pickled peaches, 
or some quality in our mutton which made it unlike all other mutton, 
he had never enjoyed a meal as much. What he wanted to know was 
how the thing was done. He was told that large, sound fruit. Just 
ripening, must be selected for pickling; when the finger dents a peach it 
is too ripe. The selected peaches are washed and dried and put into a 
cask, then boiling \-inegar, with a handful of cloves is poured in till it 
covers the fruit, the cask closed and left for a couple of months, by 
which time the fruit would be properly pickled. Two or three casks- full 
were prepared in this way each season and served us for the entire year. 

It was a revelation, he said, and lamented that he and his people had 
not this secret before. He, too, had a peach orchard, and when the 
fruit ripened his family, assisted by all their neighbors, feasted from 
morning till night on peaches, and hardly left room in their stomachs 
for roast meat when it was dinner time. The consequence was that in a 
very few weeks — he could almost say days — the fruit was all gone, and 
they had to say, "Xo more peaches for another twelve months!" All 
that would now be changed. He would command his wife and daugh- 
ters to pickle peaches — a cask-full, or two or three if one would not be 
enough. He would provide vinegar — many gallons of it, and cloves by 
the handful. And when they had got their pickled peaches he would 
have cold mutton for supper every day all the year round, and enjoy 
his life as he had never done before! 

This amused us very much, as we knew that poor Don Ventura, not- 
withstanding his loud commanding voice, had little or no authority in 
his house; that it was ruled by his wife, assisted by a council of four 
marriageable daughters, whose present objects in life were little dances 
and other amusements, and lovers, with courage enough to marry them 
or carry them off. 



310 



THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS 



[July 



A SIMPLE GUIDE FOR PLANNING MEALS 



EMMA CONLEY 

In charge of Home Economics Extension Division, University of Wisconsin 

SEE THAT THERE IS SOME FOOD FROM EACH COLUMN IN YOUR DAILY 

DIET 



SUBSTANCES NECESSARY FOR GROWTH ARE: 
PROTEIN, MINERAL MATTER , VITAMINES 


substances which furnish energy 

axe: eat, starch, sugar, 

also protein 


SUBSTANCES 

WHICH 

FURNISH BUtK 


Foods rich in protein 


Foods rich in 
mineral matter 


Foods ricii in 
vitamin es 


Foods rich 
in fat 


Foods rich 
in starch 


Foods rich 
in sugar 




Complete 
protein 


Incom- 
plete 
protein* 


Bulky foods 


Milk 




Milk 


Milk 


Milk 




Milk 




Eggs 




Eggs 


Eggs 


Eggs 








Meat 




Meat 




Meat 








Fish 




Fish 




Salmon 








Cheese 




Cheese 


Cheese 


Cheese 








Peanuts 




Peanuts 




Peanuts 


Peanuts 




Peanuts 


Soybeans 




Soybeans 




Soybeans 




Soybeans 


Soybeans 




Beans 


Beans 






Beans 




Beans 




Peas 


Peas 






Peas 




Peas 




Cereals 


Cereals 
Greenleaved 

vegetables 
Roots and 

tubers 
Fruits 


Greenleaved 
vegetables 

Butter 
Suet 


Butter 
Suet 


Cereals 

Roots and 
tubers 


Fruits 
Sugar and 
syrups 


Cereals 
Greenleaved 

vegetables 
Roots and 

tubers 
Fruits 


Bacon 








Bacon 
Lard 

Vegetable 
fats 









*Incomplete protein can supply only part of the protein needs of the body. 

Cereals include: wheat, oats, corn, rye, barley, rice, buckwheat. 

Green leaved vegetables include: lettuce, endive, cress, cabbage, Brussel 
sprouts, beets, dock, mustard, dandelion greens, etc. 

Roots and Tubers include: potatoes, onions, carrots, parsnips, beets, ruta- 
bagas, radishes, etc. 

Fruits include: tomatoes, apples, oranges, peaches, pears, pineapple, grape- 
fruit, raisins, dates, figs. 



1919] CHANGES IN THE COST OF LIVING 311 

DIVIDE YOUR FOOD DOLLAR INTO FIFTHS 

If you buy all your food, of every dollar spent use : 

20 cents, more or less, for vegetables and fruits. Group I 
20 cents, or more, for milk and cheese. 



20 cents, or less, for meat, fish, eggs, etc. J 
20 cents, or more, for bread and cereals. Group III 
20 cents, or less, for sugar, fat, tea, \ Groups IV and V, 
coffee, chocolate, and other groceries / and food accessories. 
If you use "more" for cereals, and "less" for meat, you will not 
have to spend so many dollars to get the needed food, but you will not 
find it so easy to provide an attractive and palatable diet. 



CHANGES IN THE COST OF LIVING 

As reported in the Industrial News Survey for April 21-28, 1919. 
Since signing of the armistice, changes in the average cost of the different 
items entering into the budget were: 

All items 2.8 per cent decrease 

Food 4.4 per cent decrease 

Shelter 1.7 per cent increase 

Clothing 6.2 per cent decrease 

Fuel, heat and light 1.3 per cent increase 

Sundries No change 

For the entire period July, 1914-March, 1919, the increases in the respective 
items were: 

All items 61.3 per cent 

Food 75 per cent 

Shelter 22 per cent 

Clothing 81 per cent 

Fuel, heat and light 57 per cent 

Sundries 55 per cent 



United States Bureau of Labor Statistics reports "that if a certain 
amount of food cost SI at average retail prices of 1913, the same quan- 
tity would have cost S1.02 inl914, Sl.Ol in 1915, $1.14 in 1916, $1.46 
in 1917, and $1.68 in 1918." 



312 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [July 

THE USE OF WEIGHT STANDARDS IN HANDLING FOOD 
PRODUCTS 

E. H. S. BAILEY 

There are still many commodities, not sold in packages, but by the 
dozen, bushel or quart, that will eventually be sold by weight, since 
that is the most equitable method for handling them. Jobbers and 
wholesalers long ago, for greater convenience of handling, weighed these 
products and translated that weight into barrels or bushels if necessary. 
In the United States we still hold the old English denominations of 
weights and measures, instead of adopting the more rational metric 
system of continental and Latin countries. In a similar way we follow 
the methods of our ancestors and buy and sell some products by volume 
instead of by weight, although we admit that the latter is simpler and 
more equitable for all parties. 

The practice of selling potatoes, onions, carrots, pa'"snips, turnips, 
beets, apples, tomatoes, asparagus, green beans and peas, and even 
lettuce, by the pound is being extensively introduced, and many city 
markets allow no other method of sale. This should become universal. 
What purchaser who has seen the grocer try to fit a quarter or a half 
peck of beets, carrots, turnips, or sweet potatoes into a cylindrical 
measure will not welcome a method of sale that requires that they shall 
be sold by weight only? 

The objection may be urged that we are familiar with the older method 
and can not readily compute how much we are getting for our money if 
weights are used. It would only take a short time to learn that a bushel 
of potatoes weighs 60 pounds; of sweet potatoes, 50 pounds; of apples, 
48 pounds; of onions, 57 pounds; of tomatoes, 56 pounds, and so on. 
And when we buy on a weight basis we shall have a better conception of 
the real nutritive value of the foods purchased. For the benefit of the 
purchaser, many public markets post tables of pounds per bushel of 
most commodities, and a simple computation makes the relative values 
understood. 

This same method of sale should be extended to oranges, lemons, 
bananas, squashes, cantaloupes, watermelons, celery, eggs, and even 
ice cream. What the purchaser desires, especially at the present time, 
when he must know about food values, whether he will or not, is a cer- 
tain defmite amount of the product, by weight, for a certain definite sum 
of money. If the price is too high he can dechne to purchase. 



1919] WEIGHT STANDARDS IN HANDLING FOOD PRODUCTS 313 

There are eggs and eggs, not only in quality and previous conditions 
of storage, but also in size, or, more properly, weight. The average 
weight of a hen's egg is tv\'o ounces, or about 60 grams. We can not 
control the fashion with difi^erent breeds of poultry as to the size of 
eggs which they produce, and so, if eggs are sold by the dozen, the 
hen lading the small variety takes an undue advantage over the hen pro- 
ducing the large eggs. Sell by weight and all this "class discrimina- 
tion" is avoided. 

It is perfectly natural that, since cream is a liquid, and very properly 
sold by the quart, ice cream, one of its products, should be sold in the 
same way. The butter factory, however, buys milk by the poimd, with 
a butter-fat test. It will not be a popular iimovation to the manu- 
facturer of ice cream to sell his product by the pound, but since the 
product is often puffed up by the use of other constituents to occupy as 
much space as possible, would it not be a more equitable method for the 
purchaser? 

We seem to be nearing the point where, on account of the rapidly 
fluctuating price of wheat flour and other bread stuffs, the baker will 
be compelled to make only half-pound, pound, or two-pound loaves for 
family use, and charge so much per pound, even if pennies must be 
used in making change. Why not have a fluctuation in the price of a 
loaf of bread, as well as of a quart of milk? There is already a marked 
tendency to return to the use of the penny, in the interest of thrift 
and economy. It is very widely urged that the government be re- 
quested to coin 2§-cent pieces for the same reason. The saving of even 
the half-penny will be welcomed by those who must save to live. 

Another argument for strenuously urging the universal adoption of 
the handling by weight of all possible commodities is that in this way 
we shall gradually get familiar with the idea that the energy produced 
by the food when taken into the animal system or the human machine 
is in proportion to the weight — not the bulk — of the food consumed. It 
will take time to settle this idea in the consumer's mind, but will ulti- 
mately find lodgment. 

Following this method of buying ver>^ naturally will be the gradual 
realization of the fact that there is a vast difference in nutritive value 
between foods like the fruits, which contain over 80 per cent of water, 
and the grains, which contain only 15 per cent. In fact, we shall pur- 
chase for actual food value for the energy the material is capable of 
producing.— £M//e/jw of the Kansas State Board of Health, Vol. XIII, 
No. 10, October, 1917. 



314 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [July 

A BABY ARISTOCRACY 

Babies today have their own aristocratic circle to which only the 
most fortunate babies can belong. The Children's Bureau of the United 
States Department of Labor, in a study lately made, shows that the 
baby who belonged to the so-called "aristocracy" had a much better 
chance of living than the baby who could not qualify. 

To be a member of the aristocracy a baby had to meet five require- 
ments, selected because the Bureau's studies of nearly 25,000 babies 
have proved their worth in sa\ang babies' lives. 

The father must have earned a fair wage, the mother must not have 
been gainfully employed either during the year before or the year after 
the baby's birth; she must have had at least fair medical care when the 
baby was bom; and both father and mother must have been able to 
read and write. Finally, the house the baby lived in must have been 
well- ventilated, clean, sanitary, and not over-crowded. 

Only 205 of the 1210 babies bom alive in a Massachusetts manu- 
facturing city in the year studied could meet these requirements. Fif- 
teen of the 205 died before they were a year old, so that the infant mor- 
tality rate for the "aristocracy" was 73, which is 24 points more favor- 
able than the rate for the city as a whole. Of the 1005 babies who 
could not qualify for the "aristocracy" 112 died before they were a 
year old, making their infant mortality rate 111 — a rate 14 points less 
favorable than that for the city as a whole, and 38 points less favorable 
than that for the "aristocracy." 

Fifty-five per cent of the babies were barred from the "aristocracy" 
because their father's earnings were less than the standard established. 
On the other hand, wages in this city were comparatively good. Trade 
union conditions prevailed. 

The mothers of less than a fifth of the babies were gainfully employed 
during some part of the baby's first year. In this respect these babies 
were fortunate, for in a neighboring city two-fifths of the mothers in- 
cluded in a similar study had worked in order to supplement the family 
income. 

Few babies were excluded on the score that their mothers had not had 
medical care when they were born. On the other hand, the proportion 
of deaths in the first day and in the first month of life was unusually 
high. During this early period the baby's chance of life is largely 
dependent on the care the mother had before the baby was bom and at 



1919] CHILD HEALTH ALPHABET 315 

his birth. This city's most crjang need, "seems to be that of an ade- 
quate force of nurses to do prenatal work, as well as a clinic where 
expectant mothers might obtain advice and medical care." 

A number of babies were unable to qualify for the "aristocracy" 
because their mothers could not read and write. The report points out 
that invaluable sources of information on the care of her baby are closed 
to the illiterate mother. 

Housing conditions were required to meet a fixed standard, also. 
The greatest mortality was found among the babies who lived in the 
most congested homes, but the majority of the babies included in the 
study were confortably housed. Laws to preclude the possibility of 
future over-crowding ought to be passed, however. 

Although on each point separately the number of babies in unfavor- 
able surroundings is small, yet 83 per cent of babies of this city failed 
to meet one or more of the requirements, and fell into the larger group 
where the hazards were greater than among the "Baby Aristocracy." 



CHILD HE.ALTH ALPHABET^ 

MRS. FREDERICK PETERSON 

A is for Apples and also for Air; 

Children need both and we have them to spare. 

B is for Butter and Beans and Brown Bread, 

Also for Baths before Breakfast or Bed. 

C is for Cereals and Cocoa too; 

Consider the Calories coming to You. 

D is for Dates, the kind that You eat, 

Deliciously sweet and far cheaper than Meat. 

E is the Excellent Edible Egg, 

One daily at least, dear Children, we beg. 

F is for Fruits whether fresh, dried or stewed; 

Dried, at the Grocer's, you'll buy them, if shrewd. 

G is for Gaining, as every Child could; 

A half pound a Month is the least that he should. 

' Reprinted from a booklet by the same name, issued by the Child Health OrganizatioQ, 
New York City. 



316 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [July 

H is for Height, be as tall as you can, 

Weight up to Height makes a healthy strong Man. 

I is for Iron in Spinach and Eggs, 

Builds Red Blood and Sinews for strong Arms and Legs. 

J is for Jam, and also for Joy, 

WTiich spread on his Bread it brings to a Boy. 

K is for Kitchen so spick and so span, 

We all like our Food from a shining clean Pan. 

L is for Luncheon served hot in the School ; 

We wish all the Teachers could follow this Rule. 

M is for Milk which makes Muscle and Bone; 

Not less than a pint every day till you're grown. 

N is for News of Normal Nutrition, 

The one way to get into tip top Condition. 

O is for Oatmeal, the finest of food; 

With Milk for your Breakfast there's nothing so good. 

P is for Primes, Potatoes and Peas, 

And Patriots who will be glad to eat these. 

Q is for Quiet, we frequently need; 

After Meals don't run at the top of your speed. 

R is for Rest and Round Rosy Faces; 

Rest is a thing which nothing replaces. 

S is for Sugar and Syrup and Sweets; 

Every Child must have occasional Treats. 

S is important and therefore I hope 

You'll pardon my specially mentioning Soap. 

T is a Topic which Trouble begins; 

Both Tea and Coffee for Children are Sins. 

U Understanding the best way to live, 

United for Service our Country to give. 

V is for Vegetables; if you're too slim, 
These Victuals are full of Vigor and Vim, 
W is for Water, the best thing to drink 
Between Meals as often as ever we think. 
X is for Xtras of Soup or of Milk, 

For a thin little Girl till she's finer than Silk. 

Y is for You, and I tell you the Truth, 
Learn to be healthy and Strong in your Youth. 

Now march for it, Children, with Drum and with Fife, 
Z is the Zest which Health gives to Life. 



EDITORIAL 

What is Waste? An English point of view of what constitutes 
waste, as expressed in the following quotations,' is one to which we 
may well take heed. Our conception of thrift, now that the war 
motive is removed, is in danger of becoming a narrow one, and when 
it becomes narrow it will arouse the old antagonism. If thrift is to 
be a living thing, if it is to be a reality in our national life, it must 
be something more than "going without private pleasures now so that 
we may have them later;" it must mean rather "refraining from indi- 
\idual waste so that we may have energy for common creation." 

During the war we learned what waste really is; that it is not merely waste 
of products but waste of labour. Before the war many never connected the 
product with the labour needed to produce it. They thought of labour, of 
energy, as unUmited in amount. Money gave its possessor the right to spend 
it as he chose. To him who had money to spend, the world was Uke an auto- 
matic machine. You put your penny, or pound, in the slot, and got what you 
wanted. That was what people meant when they talked about demand and 
supply. To them the chief, or the only waste was the waste of money, never 
the waste of labour by the manner in which money was spent. But in the 
war, we all suddenly discovered that there was more in production than the 
penny and the slot and what came out of it. There was also labour. This 
labour was urgently needed for purposes of war, and, at the same time, was 
strictly limited in supply. It could not, therefore, be wasted in producing 
unnecessary things for individual consumers. The people who had made for 
us all kinds of things that we could very well do without, were needed to make 
munitions and other war-products; and it would be treachery to the country to 
divert them from that vital task with our private demands. To some extent 
the Government prevented us from doing that; but we also prevented our- 
selves. We asked ourselves — Do we really need this? Can we do without it? 
Are we using up more than our fair share of the energy of the country? 

So we rose to a new idea of the nation as all working together for a common 
purpose; and we saw that it was our duty, not only to use our own energy for 
that purpose, but also not to divert the energy of others from it. There was 

'Quotations are from a pamphlet entitled Our Common Purpose, by A. Glutton Brock, 
National W.S.S. Committee, London. 

317 



318 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS 

for us a double duty, the positive duty of work for the common cause and the 
negative duty of abstinence. We discovered for ourselves, what the political 
economists have long been telling us, that money is not necessarily doing good 
because it "employs labour." The question always is — How does it employ 
it? We learned that prosperity depends not only on the exchange of commod- 
ities, but also on the nature of the commodities exchanged. Moreover, we 
saw that, Ln war time at least, a rich man would do better to throw his money 
into the sea than to employ it in making many men labour to supply his own 
private and superfluous wants. It has been said that if a German millionaire, 
living in England and allowed complete freedom of action, had desired to serve 
his country as best he could, he would have done it, not by spying or even by 
sabotage, but by employing as many English workmen as possible to build 
him a palace. We saw that was true of any millionare, whether English or 
German, and that it was true also of poorer people. And this we saw because, 
in the war, the country had a common purpose, in the light of which we judge 
all production and all expenditure. 

Before the war abstinence meant to most of us, if we practised it at all, 
merely saving, and saving for ourselves. People saved so that they might be 
able to spend more at some future time. But now abstinence must have a 
new and better meaning. It is not merely a private wisdom, or a duty we owe 
to our families; it is a duty we owe to the country. We must not look at our 
bank books and decide whether we can afford this or that ; we must ask whether 
the nation can afiord it. 

In this matter of abstinence, if we will, we can all think and act for our- 
selves. It is often said that no one can define what is a necessary and what is 
a luxury. That may be true, if the words are regarded as general terms, but 
each one of us can tell quite clearly what he himself needs and what he does 
not. He can exercise his own sense of duty on the question, as it concerns 
himself, without troubling about definitions, and without asking whether his 
neighbours are doing their duty. Of one thing he may be quite sure, that the 
more he goes without, the more there will be for others. Nor need the ordinary 
private man puzzle himself much over the production of necessaries. His duty 
is to go without superfluities, so that the necessaries may be produced. What 
is needed of him is wise spending, that is to say, spending that will not foster 
the production of superfluities. 

Abstinence, thought of merely as abstinence, is a dull, meaningless thing, but 
if it means happier cities, better houses, music, and all kinds of beauty in our 
streets, and the wilderness blossoming like the rose, then it is that sharp but 
glorious discipline which all men must undergo if they are to rise from an 
animal herd into a human fellowship. 



BOOKS AND LITERATURE 



Any book or periodical mentioned in this department may be obtained through the 
JotniNAi OF Home Economics if the Journal price is listed. 



Textiles and Clothing. By Ellen Beers 
McGowAN and Charlotte A. Waite. 
New York: The Macmillan Company, 
1919, pp. 268. SI. 10. By maU of the 
Journal, SI. 18. 

The successful use of ' Te.\tiles" by Wool- 
man and ilcGowan, in college and normal 
school classes, has created a demand for a 
simpler presentation of the subject, adapted 
to high schools. Jlrs. McGowan and Miss 
Charlotte Waite collaborating have re- 
sponded to this demand and present a new 
text, which, but for the war would have 
reached the high school teachers last year. 
The authors have reorganized the ma- 
terial in the former book, have amplified 
it, and have added new features which will 
be welcomed. The chapter on primitive 
industries has been omitted and many of 
the others condensed to cover only essen- 
tials of information. There are a number 
of illustrations which have not appeared 
before in a te.^t of this kind. Outlines of 
the contents at the beginning of each chap- 
ter stand out for convenience and emphasis. 
The authors have presented knitted fabrics, 
as well as woven ones, an obvious need 
hitherto neglected. The information on bed 
linens, table linens, carpets, and laces, is a 
distinct contribution. The tabulation of 
standard fabrics of cotton, linen, wool, and 
silk, contains data which should be seized 
upon by the teacher and made vivid by the 
identification of those fabrics in the class 
room. Questions at the end of each chapter 
will aid the pupil to fix in mind the impor- 
tant points. "Questions and problems for 
further study" are suggested which will 
guide the progressive teacher in improving 
her fund of knowledge. The chapters on 



care and repair of clothing, and economics 
and hygiene of clothing are unusually well 
written. 

It is to be regretted that the starting point 
for teaching textiles in high school, viz., fab- 
rics in inmiediate use is not discussed until 
the fourth chapter is reached; for, in all 
teaching, and particularly in high school 
teaching, the psychological approach is more 
effective than the logical. Readier interest 
would have been attained by starting with 
materials with which the high school girl 
is already familiar, and introducing proc- 
esses of manufacture later. 

Grace G. Denny, 
University oj Washington. 

Save and Have. {A book of Saving Graces" 
for American homes.) Prepared by the 
Editorial Board of the University Society. 
The University Society, New York City, 
1919, pp. 142. 

This is a small book with a large purpose. 
This purpose as stated by the authors is 
"to give in the smallest compass, practical 
suggestions as to such a careful use of 
money and things as to enable the reader to 
have a surplus of money for things worth 
while." 

It uses only 140 pages in the effort to 
reach its goal. It gives suggestions in 
accounting as the basis of budget making 
and shows how to save in the four largest 
groups of expenditures — food, clothing, 
operation, and higher life. It gives hints 
in thrifty purchasing through quantity 
bu>-ing, through true bargains and coopera- 
tive groups, through reading labels and 
knowing the weight of package goods. It 
shows how good care of clothing, food, and 
319 



520 



THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS 



[July 



utensils prolongs their service and saves 
money. 

The basic facts are taken from well- 
known and in most cases reliable and named 
authorities. The facts are presented in a 
new form and often with a subtle humor 
that attracts attention and drives home the 
lesson. 

One section of special interest deals with 
the automobile and ways of cutting its 
expense. Blank forms are given for its 
daily expense account, a record of tire mile- 
age and monthly and yearly summaries. 
An illuminating catechism helps the owner 
of a car to keep a check on its cost. 

Another section gives sensible suggestions 
as to how children may earn money and be 
taught its value. It especially helps par- 
ents to discover possibilities for constructive 
play in simple materials. 

The book gives little that is new, but 
selections from old material are given with 
a new emphasis on thrift that is pertinent 
to the times and its special needs. 

The bibliographies might be improved 
and brought nearer to date. 

While the book may be most valuable to 
the beginning homemaker, the housewife of 
experience will find much to interest her. 
The teacher and student will be grateful 
for the condensation which the book has 
achieved and perhaps for new light on 
familiar topics. 

S. Maria Elliott, 
Simmons College. 

A Manual of Home-Making. Compiled by 
Martha Van Rensselaer, Flora Rose, 
Helen Canon. New York: The Mac- 
millan Co., 1919, pp. 661. Illustrated. 
S2.S0. By mail of the Journal, §2.67. 
"A Manual of Home-Making" is, as the 
title states, a compilation of material, most 
of which has appeared in the valuable 
bulletins for farmers' wives, sent out in the 
Cornell Reading Courses. There are also 
included Farmers' Bulletin 861, U. S. 
Department of Agriculture, on Stain Re- 
moval, and an abridgment of Measure- 
ments for the Household, of the U. S. 
Bureau of Standards. 



The book will be especially welcomed as 
making generally available the Cornell 
bulletins, since so far they have not been 
easily obtained except by those living in New 
York State. These bulletins have various 
authorships, so that many points of view 
are represented. The contents of the book 
are divided into four parts: Part I, The 
House and Its Furnishing; Part II, House- 
hold Management; Part III, Clothing; Part 
IV, Food and Nutrition. 

One questions somewhat the title. Are 
we losing our distinction between home- 
making and housekeeping? Should not a 
manual of homemaking at least suggest the 
care of children, the general training and 
the education of the family? 

The book is intended primarily for house- 
keepers, and contains much valuable infor- 
mation, with a brief bibliography at the 
close of some of the sections. 

Sar.ah J. McLeod. 

A Dietary for Miners. By S. H. BroCku- 

nier (Engin. and Min. Jour., 105 (1918). 

No. 14, pp. 627-630). 

Such questions as cost, responsibility for 
food served, market conditions, wholesale 
purchase, wastes and leftovers and the im- 
portance of adequate storage facilities are 
discussed, and a dietary proposed which the 
author states is based on a study of actual 
conditions interpreted from a dietary stand- 
point. The net cost of the proposed ration 
on the Pacific Coast in 1915 was 47 cents 
per man per day, with an added cost of 22 
cents for proper preparation and serving, 
amounting to a total of S20.7O per month 
for food and its service. .\ sample per man 
per day ration is suggested for a miner of 
average weight, as well as general menus, 
calculated to provide 5058 calories, of which 
protein would contribute 672 calories. The 
author in discussing suitabiUty of foods 
makes some practical suggestions. 

The question of lunch baskets is con- 
sidered and a lunch suggested which is calcu- 
lated to provide 1440 calories. The need 
for varying the dishes served by proper 
rotation for both meals and lunch basket 
is one of the points insisted upon. 



1919] 



BOOKS AND LnERATURE 



321 



Institution Recipes. By Emma Smedley. 

Published by the author, 6 East Front 

Street, Media, Pa. Third Edition, 1919, pp. 

324. S3.00. By maU of the Journal, $3.10. 

The preface to the third edition of this 
book states "In the preparation of this 
edition it has been possible to test and 
revise many of the recipes .... 
the most important feature of the book is 
the addition of the caloric value of each 
recipe and of a single serving of the recipe. 
The figures taken are usually for the raw 
foods, which in many cases are much higher 

than those of the cooked foods 

This information should be a great help to 
the busy dietitian who has little time for 
computing food values and yet wishes to 
serve a balanced menu and to know that 
the family is being sufficiently nourished." 

A comparison of the "Contents" in this 
and in earlier editions shows three new 
chapter headings — "Cereals Used as Vege- 
tables," "Sauces for Meats and Vegetables," 
and "Soap." 

The chapters on "Organization of the 
School Lunch" and "Equipment' ' have been 
omitted from this edition, as they are to be 
included in a new book now in preparation. 



Uorc Recipes for Fifty. By Frances Lowe 
Smpth. Boston: Whitcomb and Barrows, 
1918, pp. 225. $1.50. By maU of the 
Journal, $1.60. 

This volume, supplementary to the 
earlier "Recipes and Menus for Fifty" 
offers needed help to those engaged in the 
preparation of food for any number beyond 
twenty-five. The recipes can be easily 
divided into halves, and even into quarters. 
While the book was written for war-times it 
is still of value because so many war-time 
recipes have proved so popular that they 
have come to stay. With wheat back to a 
pre-war basis, the use of substitutes will to 
a great e.ttent discondnue, but we have 
become accustomed to the taste of barley, 
rye, rice, and the other cereals in our breads, 
and find they make a variety that we are 
not willing to let go. The tables on page 12 
for subsritutes will be valuable in the 
changing of the substitutes back into the 
usual ingredients. The suggestions on 
pages 12, 13, and 14 are valuable in helping 
to solve the problems of how to use the 
fats and the left-overs. 

Eliz.\beth Kelly. 



BOOKS RECEIVED 



American Charities. Amos G. Warner. Revised by Mary Roberts Coolidge. New York: 

Thomas Y. Crowell Company, 1919, pp. 541. $2.50. 
Dietaries Suitable for Secondary Schools, Colleges, Hostels, Clubs, etc. Dorothy C. Mooreand 

Charles E. Hecht. London: National Food Reform Association, 1919, pp. 54. Price 

1, 3 net. 
Practical Home Nursing. Louise Henderson, R. N. New York: The Macmillan Company, 

1919, pp. 224. $1.50. 
Successful Canning and Preserving. Ola Powell. Lippincott's Home Manuals. Second 

edition, revised and enlarged. Philadelphia: J. B. Lippincott Company, 1918, pp. 405. 

$2.00. 
TheWar Garden Victorious. Charles Lathrop Pack. Philadelphia: J. B. Lippincott Com- 
pany, 1919, pp. 179. Complimentary. 
The Winston Simplified Dicti<mary. Edited by William D. Lewis and Edgar A. Singer. 

Philadelphia: The John C. Winston Company, 1919, pp. 820. $0.96 postpaid. 



322 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [July 

PAMPHLETS RECEIVED 

Issued by the United States Department of Labor, Children's Bureau: 
Infant Mortality. Mary V. Dempsey. Infant Mortality Series No. 8, Bureau Publication 

No. 37. 
Maternity Care and the Welfare of Young Children in a Hmnesteading County in Montana. 

Viola L. Paradise. Rural Child Welfare Series No. 3, Bureau Publication No. 34. 
An Outline for a Birth-Registration Test. Miscellaneous Series No. 12, Bureau Publication 

No. 54. 
The States and Child Labor. Children's Year Leaflet No. 13, Bureau Publication No. 58. 

Issued by the United States Treasury Department and the United States Department of 
Agriculture : 
Thrift Leaflets: No. 1, Is Thrift Worth While? No. 2, Seven Steps Toward Saving; No. 3, 
Wise Spending Saves Clothing for the Family; No. 4, Saving Time and Money by Simple 
Housecleaning. 

Issued by the United States Public Health Service: 
Keep Well Series: No. 3, How to Avoid Tuberculosis; No. 4, Diphtheria. 
The Notifiable Diseases. Reprint No. 498 from the Public Health Reports. 
Safe Milk for the Small Town. K. E. Miller. Reprint No. 497 from the Public Health 

Reports. 
Treatment and Disposal of Creamery Wastes. Earle B. Phelps. Reprint No. 496 from the 

Public Health Reports. 

Issued by the Department of Commerce, Waste-Reclamation Service: 
Report of an Investigation of the Akron Industrial Salvage Co. 
Waste Reclamatiofi: Organization, Functions, and Objects of the National and Local Service. 

Issued by the Department of the Interior, Bureau of Education: 

Cardinal Principles of Secondary Education. Bulletin, 1918, No. 35. 

Courses of Study for the Preparation of Teachers of Manual Arts. Bulletin, 1918, No. 37. 

Educational Surveys. Edward Franklin Buchner. Bulletin, 1918, No. 45. 

Girl Sccmts as an Educational Force. Juliette Low. Bulletin, 1919, No. 33. 

Home Economics. Mrs. Henrietta W. Calvin and Carrie Alberta Lyford. Bulletin, 1918, 
No. 50. 

Instruction in Art in the United States. Walter Sargent. Bulletin, 1918, No. 43. 

Instruction in Music. Waldo S. Pratt. Bulletin, 1919, No. 5. 

Kindergarten Education. Almira M. Winchester. Bulletin, 1918, No. 49. 

Kindergarten Supervision in City Schools. Almira M. Winchester. Bulletin, 1918, No. 38. 

List of References on Play and Playgrounds. Library Leaflet No. 3, April, 1919. 

Public Education in the Cities of the United States. J. H. Van Sickle. John Whyte, and W. S. 
Deffenbaugh. Bulletin, 1918, No. 48. 

Review of Educational Legislation, 1917 and 1918. William R. Hood. Bulletin, 1919, No. 
13. 

Rural Education. H. W. Foght. Bulletin, 1919, No. 7. 

Secondary Education. Thomas H. Briggs. Bulletin, 1918, No. 47. 

Statistics of Agricultural and Mechanical Colleges, 1916-17. Benjamin F. Andrews. Bulle- 
tin, 1918, No. 41. 

The United States School Garden Army. J. H. Francis. Bulletin, 1919, No. 26. 



1919] BIBUOGRAPHY OF HOME ECONOMICS 323 

BIBLIOGRAPm' OF HOME ECONOMICS 

PERIODICAL LITERATURE 
Child Weuake 

Standards for Growth and Nutrition of School Children. L. E. Holt., Arch. Pediatrics, 
35 (1918). p. 339. 

Preliminary Report on the Use of Vegetable ^lilk. H. D. Chapin, Arch. Pediatrics, 35 
(1918), p. 365. 

The Relative Morbidity of Breast and Bottle Fed Babies. H. M. McClanahan, Arch. 
Pediatrics, 35 (1918), p. 372. 

The Disadvantages of Low Fat Percentages. A. F. Hand, Arch Pediatrics, 35 (1918), 
p. 373. 

Educational Value and Opportunities of Baby Health Stations. J. Sobel, Arch Pedi- 
atrics, 35 (1918), p. 468. 

Anaphylaxis and its Relation to Some Diatheses Common to Infancy and Childhood. 
F. W. Shlutz and W. P. Larson, Arch. Pediatrics, 35 (1918), p. 705. 

The Mantou.-? Reaction in Childhood. O. Reiss, Arch. Pediatrics, 35 (1918), p. 714. 

Care of the Eyes of School Children. W. M. Carhart, Arch. Pediatrics, 35 (1918), p. 723. 

Study of the Effect of Cod Liver Oil to Prevent Rickets in Negro Children. M. A. Asser- 
son, Arch Pediatrics, 35 (1918), p. 727. 

Gastrointestinal Disturbances in Children Depending on Mechanical Agencies. H. B. 
WUcox, Arch. Pediatrics, 35 (1918), p. 729. 

Paratj-phoid in Children. E. StoLkind and A. Lorrey, Arch. Pediatrics, 35 (1918), p. 751. 

Treatment of .\nte-natal and Post-natal Syphilis. J. .^dams. Arch. Pediatrics, 35 (1918), 
p. 753. 

The Minnesota Plan for the Establishment of Infant Welfare Clinics in Smaller Towns. 
E. J. Huenekens, Arch. Pediatrics, 35 (1918), p. 718. 

Breast Feeding: Faradization of the Mammary Glands. E. S. Chesser, Arch. Pediatrics, 
35 (1918), p. 753. 

Maternal Nursing. H. W. Coe, Arch. Pediatrics, 35 (1918), p. 754. 

Further Remarks on the Treatment of Asthma by Peptone. A. G. Auld, Arch. Pedi- 
atrics, 35 (1918), p. 754. 

The Bacteriology of Measles. L. Hektoen, Arch. Pediatrics, 35 (1918), p. 757. 

Prophylaxis of Infection in Nurseries. Arch. Pediatrics, 35 (1918), p. 758. 

Nutrition 

Biological Values of Wheat and Almond Nitrogen. Agnes F. Morgan, Alice M. Heinz, 
Jcmr. Biol. Chem., 37 (1919), pp. 215-222. 

A Method of Expressing Numerically the Growth-promoting Value of Proteins. T. B. 
Osborne, L. B. Mendel, Edna L. Ferry, Jour. Biol. Chem., 37 (1919), pp. 223-230. 

Creatinuria and Acidosis. M. H. Denis, A. B. Minot, Jcnir. Biol. Chem., 37 (1919), pp. 
245-252. 

The Antiscorbutic Value of Vegetables. A study of raw and dried tomatoes. M. H. 
Givens, H. B. McClugage, Jour. Biol. Chem., 37 (1919), pp. 255-270. 

The Dietary Properties of the Pea. E. V. McCollum, N. Simmonds, H. T. Parsons, 
Jour. Biol. Chem., 37 (1919), pp. 287-302. 

The Acid-base Balance in Anunal Nutrition. A. R. Lamb, J. M. Eward, Jour. Biol. 
Chem., 37 (1919), pp. 317-342. 



324 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECOKOMCS {J^Y 

The Effect of Acetone and of ^-Hydroxylbutyric and Acetoacetic Acids on the Blood 
Catalase. W. E. Burge, Jcnir. Biol. Chem., 37 (1919), pp. 343-348. 

Lactose, Fat and Protein in Milk of Various Animals. O. Folin, W. Denis, A. S. Minot, 
Jour. Biol. Chem., 37 (1919), pp. 349-352. 

The Growth and Senescence of White Mice Fed on Pituitary (Anterior Lobe) Tissue, 
Tethelin, Egg Lecithin, or Cholesterol. T. B. Robertson, L. A. Ray, Jour. Biol. Chem., 
37 (1919), pp. 377-465. Five separate articles are included, dealing with various phases of 
the subject. 

The Nutritive Value of Cocoanut Globulin and Cocoanut Press Cake. C. O. Johns, 
A. J. Fmks, Mabel S. Paul, Joiir. Biol. Chem., 37 (1919), pp. 497-502. 

The Chemical Investigation of Spoiled Meat. Ammonia tests for meat spoilage. K. G. 
Falk, Emil J. Baumann, Grace McGuire, Jour. Biol. Chem., 37 (1919), pp. 523-550. 

The Nutritive Value of the Wheat Kernel and its Milling Products. T. B. Osborne, 
L. B. Mendel. Jour. Biol. Chem., 37 (1919), pp. 557-601. 

Textiles and Clothing 

Domestic Glove Situation Easier. Dry Goods Economist, Apr. 5, 1919. 

Lower Price of Higher Quality. Dry Goods Economist, Apr. 5, 1919. 

Cotton Fabrics for Summer Frocks. Le Costume Royal, May, 1919. 

Reactions of the War on Taste as Seen in N. Y's. Newest Hotels. Good Furniture, Mar., 
1919. 

Tapestry Portrayal of the "Sun King" as Jupiter Made upon Hand Loom. Country 
Life. Mar. 1919. 

Reproduction of a Chinese Brocade — Cheney Bros. Decorative Furnisher, Apr., 1919. 

Metropolitan Museum Holds Exposition of American Made Furnishings. Decorative 
Furnisher, Feb., 1919. 

Some "Made-in-America" Fabrics. Decorative Furnisher, Feb., 1919. 

Tapestry Panels — Rug — Silk Brocade. Decorative Furnisher, Mar., 1919. 

Block Prints for Mural and Fabric Decorations. Touchstone, Apr., 1919. 

Textile Birds Ancient and Medieval. Good Furniture, Apr., 1919. 

Fascinating Designs in Cretonne Hangings. House Beautiful, Apr., 1919. 

Developing A National Art Type. M. D. C. Crawford. House Beautiful, Apr., 1919. 

Textile Motifs from Cleveland Museum. School Arts Magazine, Apr., 1919. 

Block Print Hints. School Arts. Mar., 1919. 

Miscellaneous 

The American Homemaker and Reconstruction. Adelaide S. Baylor, Jour. N. E. A., 
Nov., 1918. 

The Secret of Thrift. A New Aladdin's Lamp for Every Boy and Girl. Clifford B. 
Upton, Teachers Coll. Rec, Nov., 1918. 

Health Exercises for Everyday Use. Jesse F. Williams, Teachers Coll. Rec, Nov., 1918. 

Prevention of Child Mortality. A. Gertrude Hines, Amer. Jour. Nursing, Nov., 1918. 

Building a Child Welfare Program in War Time. Mary Titzel, Amer. Jour. Soc, Jan., 
1919. 

Training for Rural Leadership. Thomas Smart, Amer. Jour. Soc, Jan., 1919. 

Organized Leisure as a Factor in Conservation. Carol Aronovici, Amer. Jour. Soc, 
Jan., 1919. 



NEWS FROM THE FIELD 



The Twenty-first Annual Session of 
the Inland Empire Educational Asso- 
ciation met in Spokane, April 2 to 4. 
Educators from the entire Northwest to- 
gether with many eastern men and women 
were present at the meeting. 

The Home Economics Section offered the 
following program: How to Make Home 
Economics Work Function, Ava B. Milam, 
Oregon Agricultural College; Discussion, 
Effie Raitt, University of Washington; 
Development of Vocational Home Eco- 
nomics, Dr. Louise Stanley, Federal Board 
for Vocational Education, Washington, D. C; 
Trade and Industrial Education for Girls 
and Women, Mrs. Anna L. Burdick, 
Federal Agent for the Industrial Education 
of Women and Girls, Washington, D. C. 

The Vocational Section devoted most of 
its program to the discussion of Smith- 
Hughes work. Vocational Homemaking 
as a School Course was presented by Anne E. 
Arnold, Principal, Girls' Polytechnic High 
School, Portland, Oregon. 

.■\t the business meeting, Lilian Tingle, of 
the University of Washington, was elected 
President, and Mildred P. French, Super- 
visor of Home Economics, Spokane, Wash- 
ington, Secretary. 

The Tacoma Home Economics Asso- 
ciation devoted itself this past year to 
activities connected with the Red Cross 
Canteen, Home Service, and Child Welfare. 
The following officers have served since 
October: President, Alta D. Beymer; Vice- 
president, Mrs. Erminie V. Lamb; Secre- 
tary-Treasurer, Elizabeth A. Redway. 

The Oregon Home Economics Associa- 
tion held their second annual session May 
17, 1919, with Ava B. Milam presiding. 
The program was as follows: How to Make 



Home Economics Function, Helen Lee 
Davis, Oregon Agricultural College, Cor- 
vallis. Ore.; Discussion, led by Agnes Craig, 
Washington State College, Pullman, Wash.; 
Smith-Hughes Home Economics, Dr. Louise 
Stanley, Federal Board for Vocational 
Education; Continuation Classes, Maude 
Murchie, State Supervisor for Home Eco- 
nomics, Sacramento, Cal. 

Some of the Affiliated Home Econom- 
ics Associations have recently reported 
newly elected officers. Those not already 
published in the news columns are as follows: 

Cleveland: Adelaide Van Duzer, President; 
Estelle Steams, First Vice-President; Elisa- 
beth Parsons, Second Vice-President; Mabel 
Crossen, Third Vice-President; Lenore Dela- 
himt. Secretary; Kathryne Herbert, Treas- 
urer. 

Detroit: Lulu Becker, President; Irene 
Kenny, Vice-President; Florence Ackerman, 
Correspondent Secretary; Louise Clawson, 
Recording Secretary; Joy Blanchard, Treas- 
urer; Charlotte Keen, Councilor. 

Indiana State Teachers Assn. Home Eco- 
nomics Section: Geraldine Hadley, President; 
Lucy B. Hawk, Vice-President; Mary E. 
Commack, Secretary-Treasurer; Elizabeth 
Cowan, Councilor. 

Kansas City: Martha Rouse, President; 
Jessie Griffith, First Vice-President; Nell 
Leonard, Second Vice-President; Frances 
Backstrom, Secretary; Miss Griffin, Treas- 
urer; Ella Willsey, Councilor. 

Michigan: Mary F. Baldwin, acting presi- 
dent; .\lice M. Cimmer, secretary; Alice 
R. WaUin, treasurer. 

Greater New York: Martha Westfall. 
President; Mrs. Edward Thomas, Secretary, 

Texas: Laura F. Neale, president; Emma 
E. Pirie, vice-president; Jessie Rambo, 
secretary; Mrs. J. M. Harris, treasurer. 
325 



326 



THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS 



[July 



Life Members of the American Home 
Economics Association: Sarah Louise 
Arnold, Simmons College, Boston, Mass.; 
Anna Barrows, Teachers College, New York 
City; Melvil Dewey and Mrs. Melvil Dewey, 
Lake Placid Club, New York; Louisa A. 
Nicholass, Mary Hemenway School of 
Household Arts, Framingham, Mass.; Mrs. 
Orlo J. Price, Lansing, Mich.; Robert H. 
Richards, Mass. Inst, of Technology, Boston. 
Miss Nicholass was made a life member by 
the Alumnae Association of the Mary 
Hemenway School of Household Arts. 

Practice Cottage, Hood College. 
T>'pical of the present movement in home 
economics education is the practice house 
recently dedicated at Hood College, Fred- 
erick, Md., and known, after the donor, as 
David Strawn Cottage. 

The practice house was designed by the 
students of the home economics depart- 
ment. The building accommodates 15 
students and a teacher with permanent 
living quarters. 

On the second floor there is a sleeping 
porch large enough to accommodate eight 
persons. 

Indiana University. A unique course 
for teachers will be given in the Home 
Economics Department this summer on 
how to present to school children the sub- 
ject of "How to Spend Money." This 
course will be in charge of Helen C. Good- 
speed, State Superintendent of Home Eco- 
nomics for Wisconsin. A demonstration 
class has been arranged for in connection 
with this course. 

The League for Preventive Work 
in Boston gave valuable help with the food 
problem during the influenza epidemic. 
Its Dietetic Bureau, in charge of Lucy H. 



Gillett, prepared simple practical sugges- 
tions which the social worker could leave in 
homes where such suggestions could be 
used intelligently. In other cases the 
workers at the Bureau went into the homes 
to give personal advice and to do intensive 
work. In all except three of these famiUes 
the mother was spending enough money to 
buy sufiicient food for the family but it 
was not spent so as to get the needed nour- 
ishment. In all cases except one the mothers 
received and acted upon suggestions eagerly 
and there was a decided improvement in 
the health conditions. 

Child Survey, Boston. The weighing 
and measuring campaign for children under 
5 brought out last year the fact that 5,000 
children in Boston were below normal weight. 
The child welfare committee of the city has 
decided to investigate the reasons for this 
condition, and after the survey to recommend 
constructive measures. 

Home Service Work of the American 
Red Cross will be continued as a peace 
time activity, and in some communities, 
particularly those where there are no other 
organized agencies for social service, will be 
expanded to include others besides the fami- 
lies of soldiers and sailors, though these will 
receive special attention. The present poli- 
cy will be followed of giving help only to 
those who ask for it and never going where 
the offer of assistance is unwelcome. There 
will be a scrupulous care to avoid duplicating 
or interfering with the work which is being 
done for social betterment by any other 
agencies. 

Notes. The New York City Commissioner 

of Markets is giving courses of lectures to 
women on marketing, as a means of lower- 
ing the cost of living through more intelli- 
gent buying. 



VOt. XI. No. 8 A .^,,^ 

August, 1919 



THE 

Journal of Home Economics 

For those interested in Homemaking, Institution Management, 
and Educational Work in Home Economics 

Mrs. Auce P. Norton. Editor ^ 

EdUorial Board Keiurah E. Baldwin, Busi,..ss Editor 

Mas. MarvH. Abel C. F. Lanowo.thv Era elw.n Miller Roth Wheeler Amv Daniels 

£x-0/Sc.-» J/mf-m-EDN* N.WHrrE.Pr^ident American Home Economics Association 
tLSlE Leonard. Chairman Institution Economics Section 
Kaiherine Butnt, Chairman Science Section 
Mamie Bi-nch, Chairman Extension Education Section 
-Mabel Trilling, Chairman Textile Section 
CoUahorolnn—The Officers. Members of the Council, and Advisors 



CONTENTS 



The Wage-Earntxg Girl and Home Economics 
Itallan Cookery 



liuui Ldlor BurJick M7 

-E™ Mariotti 337 

The Relaticn-ship Between ihe State Slpervihor or \„caiionai. Eulcaiion .nd the 

Cm- SL^.ER^ isoR of Home Economics .y^,„/,„ jj ^^„,^/, 3^, 

Ratio.si.n-g the Fire Sufferers or Minnesota . . r „ ,. r r 

Experisiental Cookery 

For the Homemaker 

\ Belated Industry t , ,, 

Jane Addaiiis 3.i,S 

Editorial 

Comment and Discussion 

The Question Box 

Books and Literature 

Pamphlets RECEr\ED 

Blbliocraphy of Home Economics 

News from the Field . . . 



36.S 
367 
368 
369 
370 
371 
373 



The Journal of Home Economics is published monthly by the American Home Economics Association. 

t2.00 A YEAR. FOREIGN $2.35. CANADIAN J2.20. SINGLE COPIES 25 CENTS 

HOW TO REMIT. Remittances should be sent bv Check Frnre^ Drdpr .^, p„,. in* .-. j 

NOTICr Wh"""""" 'r^'"t K ^T"''- ""'"= ^'^^^■'^'^"R^^^^^^^^^ '" "" 

notice. When payment is made by check no receipt will be sent unless requested 

AMERICAN HOME ECONOMICS ASSOCIATION 1211 Cathedral St., Baltimore Md 

The J"^'^^ °' "°;^i^°''°"'^ ii o" -"at John Wanamakcr's, Philadelphia; The Old Comer Book Store, Boston; 

A. C. McCIurg s. Chicago; Baltimore News Company, Baltimore; Woodward and Lothrop, WRshington 



JOURNAL OP BOUE ECONOMICS— ADYERTISEUElfTS 




Royal Baking Powder Company, New York 



In writing advertisers, please mention Journal of Home Economics 



THE 

Journal of Home Economics 

Vol. XI AUGUST, 1919 No. 8 

THE WAGE-EARNING GIRL AND HOME ECONOMICS' 

ANNA LALOR BURDICK 

Federal Agent for Trade and Industrial Education for Girls and Women 

The fundamental topics which must receive consideration in any 
discussion of the subject are: the numbers of wage earners in specified 
age groups, and the facts concerning each group; who the worker is, 
what she does, where she comes from, and what can be done for her. 

The usual basis of computation is the United States census publica- 
tions of 1910. This sage and solemn source of indisputable evidence 
placed the total number of girls and women gainfully employed at 
8,075,772. Thirty-three per cent of these were engaged in domestic 
and personal service; 22 per cent in agriculture; 22 per cent in manu- 
facturing and mechanical pursuits; 15 per cent in trade and transpor- 
tation; and 8 per cent in professional ser\'ice. 

The war has accelerated the expansion of the employment of women 
until the most conser\-ative estimate places the total number of working 
women today at twelve millions. The number of women in domestic 
service has been rapidly shrinking; the number industrially employed 
has been correspondingly increasing, until Just prior to the war the 
women formed 16.7 per cent of all workers engaged in mechanical and 
manufacturing pursuits. 

In 1910, one in every four women throughout the country was a 
worker gainfully employed. In New York City one in every four work- 
ers was a woman. The period of service, formerly estimated at from 

' Presented at the Twelfth Annual Meeting of the American Home Economics Associa- 
tion, Blue Ridge, N. C, June, 1919. 

327 



328 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [AugUSt 

three to seven years, is lengthening. The war has rehabilitated large 
numbers of middle aged women; and consequently increased approxi- 
mately 100 per cent the number of married women in employment. 

As a labor reserve, woman has become a national economic asset. 
Not more insistent is the employer in his effort to secure women workers 
than the women workers themselves are in their earnest efforts to 
secure suitable employment. Their needs are nationally known to the 
Women's Division of the United States Employment Services. 

In reply to the question of numbers of wage-earning girls and women, 
we may say then that "her name is legion and her tribe is increasing." 
Witness the statistics of workers in age groups, (United States Census, 
1910, vol. IV, table 26, page 69): Of the total nvmiber of girls in the 
following age groups, 

10 to 13 years of age 8 per cent (1 out of every 12) is employed 

14 to 15 years of age 19 . 8 per cent (1 out of every 5) is employed 

16 to 20 years of age 39 .9 per cent (2 out of every 5) is employed 

21 to 44 years of age 26.3 per cent (1 out of every 4) is employed 

45 years and over 15.7 per cent (1 out of every 7) is employed 

The first group should be returned to school instanter by rigid enforce- 
ment of the Compulsory School Attendance and Child Labor Laws. 
There is no other remedy. 

The second, third, and fourth groups may be reached, respectively, 
by all day schools for the young girl about to enter wage-earning, by 
part-time schools for those who are already at work, and evening in- 
struction for the adult wage-earner. 

The large proportion of women 16 to 20 years of age engaged in gain- 
ful occupation is accounted for by the fact that at this period all the 
girls are old enough to work, and matrimony has had little effect in 
decreasing the number of workers. 

Among women the highest proportion of gainful workers was in the 
age period 16 to 20 (39.9 per cent), and the next highest in the age 
period 21 to 44 (26.3 per cent). 

In a recent number of The Manufacturer's Journal a letter from a 
certain town in Louisiana states that in this town of 3500 population 
there are large numbers of idle women who want employment. The 
letter asks for some consideration to be accorded this small town when 
plaiming a program of industrial expansion. This is but one town 
among the thousands which present the same problem. From centers 
urban and rural, from individuals near and far, comes the call for work. 



1919] THE WAGE-EARNING GIRL AND HOME ECONOMICS 329 

These women form an "Army of Occupations — Wanted." One of the 
questions which the war asks — for it seems to ask what it does not 
answer — is: "In the readjustment is the economic asset of these women's 
labor to be salvaged?" 

Who is this wage-earning girl? She is aU sorts and conditions — from 
the child thrust into a working experience at the earUest possible mo- 
ment the law allows, to the girl of independent means deprived of full 
participation in life, demanding her chance to Uve more abundantly 
and to insure herself against the mischances of fortune. Between these 
two extremes we meet every type of worker with every type of prepara- 
tion, but the throng at the bottom of the ladder is great. 

Training the girl has always been a matter of confusion in the public 
mind. Her supposed short service in the world of work tends to em- 
phasize domestic training based upon the value of the home in the com- 
munity. It is no exaggeration to say that her lack of equipment for 
bread winning brings even more disastrous results than her lack of 
knowledge of household arts. As a member of an unskilled, an unor- 
ganized group, the girl is an imderbidder in the labor market, accepts 
poor wages, long hours, and lowers the standard of living. Training for 
a vocation is a valuable training for the future homemakers and can be 
made to cover all the relations of life. 

To get a job, hold it, and advance in it, and make it worth while, 
and have it make you worth while, is sound philosophy for the shop, 
the office, or the home. It takes not incidental attention, but planning, 
organizing, systematizing, and self-sacrifice. 

Most people fail to analyze the mental states of the girl worker. She 
is influenced by the popular belief and expectation that wage earning is 
not a permanent proposition. She wants to go with the throng, do 
what other girls do, have what other girls have, and what is more, be 
seen having it. She is influenced by friends in the choice of school, 
work, clothes, recreation. She sets the seen above the unseen, the 
immediate over and against the more remote. She is influenced by the 
social prejudices towards levels of employment. She is conservative 
because hampered by the dread of change and shift. She is daring 
because, having little to lose, she is willing to hazard all and get a new 
job if necessary. 

Classified by age groups, let us picture this wage-earner from 14 to 
16. She drops out of school, public or parochial, and neither parents 
nor teachers know what she faces. How does she get her job? Much 



330 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [AugUSt 

depends on what the other girls of her acquaintance do. Girls are 
gregarious. She takes work which is socially attractive because the 
workers are recruited among her friends, or work which is geographically 
convenient. The neighborhood becomes the source of labor supply. 

She may be classified roughly into two groups: First, there is the over- 
age, over-size girl, physically developed beyond her years and judgment, 
whose tendency to over-decoration shows that she seeks admiration in 
general, and an admirer in particular. She leaves school on the pre- 
text of helping at home or feigned illness. If she does not find some 
Lochinvar of a delivery boy or chap in the nearby garage, as a mate, 
her desires soon outstrip the capacity of the family exchequer and she 
turns to wage-earning. She may do housework for a time, but she has 
size — a marketable asset, which, in itself, opens up opportunities in the 
fields of industrial employment. She is frequently located in a laundry 
at about a dollar a day; in the Five- and Ten-Cent Store, at about six 
dollars per week, where the display of the right thing, at the right place, 
at the right time, sells itself. She may fimd emplojTnent in miscella- 
neous mercantile establishments, or, if old enough, at the telephone 
exchange. In the factory she may be a checker, inspector, a labeler, a 
paster, a boxmaker, a sorter, a wrapper, a packer, or a filler, according 
to whether the product is boxed or bottled, dry or wet goods, textiles, 
or non-textiles. In a department store she may be a bundle wrapper, 
a cash girl, a stock girl. In dressmaking and millinery shops she is 
found, in very limited numbers, as messenger or helper. The appren- 
tice girl has vanished, as well as the busy dressmaker who will stop to 
teach her the simple and essential principles of the trade. 

Second, there is the girl who must go to work at once because of 
economic need. This is not an absolute, but a relative and contingent 
term. Family ideals set this standard. Her schooling is really not 
marketable on the "fetch and carry" jobs which are open to her. Her 
progress depends much on family traditions and neighborhood influ- 
ences. To keep ahve the spark of interest and ambition, to prevent 
retrogression, to help her think and judge and struggle for the next 
step in advancement, that is the fimction which the continuation school 
can perform for this girl. Since normal family relationships have been 
upset in the homes from which many of these girls come, the school 
must prevent tragedies of neglect and indifference by suppljang a per- 
sonal interest, direction, and guidance in establishing wholesome stand- 
ards of Kving. The job plus the school influence is a very different thing 
from the job without it, to the girl of this age. 



1919] THE WAGE-EARNING GIRL AND HOME ECONOMICS 331 

The trade schools and trade classes were established to lift the girl of 
limited school expectancy over the unskilled processes which catch and 
hold the young worker, and enable her to enter employment at a higher 
initial wage. Here she is trained in the processes, and, through order 
work, becomes experienced in handhng varieties of materials. The 
dressmaking trade ranks first in the industries, in the nmnber of women 
employed, and fourth in the occupations, being outstripped by agricul- 
tural laborers, servants, and laundresses. Dressmaking and millinery, 
other than the work of the family dressmaker, represent various stages 
of industrial evolution and organization, with growing speciaUzation of 
workers; consequently, we find older women gravitating toward them. 

The next group of wage-earners from 16 to 20 years of age, are divided 
into four classes: 

First, the girls who have automatically graduated out of the Juvenile 
jobs, and have maturity and stabihty to market. These girls have 
found some progression in the store, the office, or the factory. 

Second, the girl who early anticipated matrimony as a station in life 
and found it an experience. She comes back to work without special 
training. This girl is found in all classes of work. Hotels, restaurants, 
cafes, are her haven. She gets her meals as part pay. She can live at 
home and work part time. In the absence of definite training she tries 
to "cash in" on her household experiences. Youth is an asset to her as 
a waitress or a cashier. As she grows older she may follow a descending 
scale, gra\-itating through the pantry to the kitchen as a helper or a 
dishwasher. On an ascending scale she may become head waitress or 
cashier, and, with the addition of typewriting or clerical training, may 
pass into other service occupations in the large hotel. Owing to the 
increasingly large number of women employed in hotels, some assist- 
ance may be ofi'ered through training. An analysis of the requirements 
of the worker and duties for the specific occupations would indicate the 
first steps. 

Third, the girl, who, in anticipation of early advent into wage-earning, 
entered the commercial department of the high school as the quickest 
way to a pay cheque. The mortality in this department is high. If 
this girl could combine commercial training with some art training and 
abihty to write clearly, she could be an apprentice in the advertising 
department of stores. If she could combine some commercial training 
with abihty to sew, she could be placed in part-time work in custom 
shops. More girls in Washington Irving High School were placed in 
industrial work on a part-time basis than in commercial work. 



332 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [AugUSt 

Girls as well as boys want some way of earning money while in school. 
Their poverty or indigence is very evident when sales of tickets for 
school activities necessitate a consultation at home before the girl can 
take action. 

Certain other occupations akin to industrial work, but ordinarily 
called clerical, are open to these girls on dropping out of school. They 
manipulate office machinery, duplicators, addressographs, photostats, 
comptometers, and become typists in letter shops, and work in printing 
and publishing houses. 

Fourth, the girl who graduates from the high school is likewise in- 
cluded in this group. As a wage-earner she enters the commercial 
occupations in largest numbers. Teaching assimilates the next largest 
group. Wage-earning may be deferred by further training. Matri- 
mony does not transfer the attention of these girls to the home in any 
considerable ntunbers until after the third year out of school. It is 
almost a stable percentage in a given community or neighborhood. 
The war, however, has increased the marriage rate much beyond that of 
normal times. 

The 21- to 44-year group is the next largest and next in importance in 
industry. This woman showed her stability, adaptability, and capacity, 
during the war in many new Unes of employment. She was not a new 
worker, but transferred worker. She returns intermittently to the 
wage-earning experiences of her earlier years. The backbone of a great 
army of power machine stitchers, dressmakers, and metal trade workers 
is found here, and is increasingly depleting the army of domestic workers. 

The problem of domestic service, or homemaking for wage earning, 
is a critical one at the present time. The United States Employment 
Service brings in the report from every section of the country that an 
unorganized boycott of domestic employment prevails. Its lack of 
standards in hours, wages, and work have kept it from attaining the 
dignity of a trade. Training, up to the present time, has been indif- 
ferently provided for in day and evening classes in connection with 
homemaking courses. Homemakers have been exposed to training for 
twenty-five years, and yet as employers of labor, have not systematized 
the working day. The Young Women's Christian Association, co- 
operating with other interested agencies, is beginning to work out a 
scheme of this work on a trade basis. The American Home Eco- 
nomics Association, with its scientifically trained body of workers, cer- 
tainly should recognize its responsibility and opportiuiity for service in 



1919] THE WAGE-EARNING GIRL AND HOME ECONOMICS 333 

the betterment of working conditions affecting the largest body of 
women wage-earners engaged in a single occupation. 

Under present day conditions the working woman resents the sug- 
gestion that she seek domestic service as a means of liveUhood, and 
resents the efforts to draw or force her into it. She is tired of having 
this ill-paid, trying form of manual labor urged upon her as preeminently 
woman's field and proper choice, when she knows that in almost any 
other calling a woman receives not only better pay but more considera- 
tion as a human being and has, perhaps, a chance of advancement. 

To develop the movement for employment of "home orderlies" or 
"household assistants," three distinct changes must occur: 

First, the education of housekeepers must proceed to a point where 
they are willing to give proper training to domestic helpers. 

Second, a better grade of labor must be attracted into the industry 
by regulations as to time, length of hours, and specific duties. 

Third, an effort must be made to develop the social attitude that this 
is an occupation demanding sufficient skill and inteUigence to be worthy 
of initial training and compensation. 

Seventy-four per cent of the women between the ages of 21 and 44 
are in homes. We find many of them utilizing their home experiences 
as a business asset in developing a clientele for serving meals, garment 
making and repairing, laundering, cleaning and renovating, nursing. 

A number of factory industries have thus outgrown their humble 
beginnings in homes, notably: Pin Money Pickles of Richmond; Sassy 
Jane Apron Factory of Los Angeles; Taylor Canning Company of Santa 
Anna, Cahfornia. It is interesting to note how many patent medicines 
have developed to gigantic proportions through this " home- remedy" 
stage. Aprons, house dresses, children's clothes, and all types of home- 
made foods are staple products readily marketed. They sell them- 
selves with little pushing. Factory production has developed markets 
rather than diminished the demand for hand work. A Minneapolis 
firm, marketing its products almost wholly within a radius of 200 miles, 
in 1917 sold 13.135 dozen aprons, 13,000 dozen house dresses, 1200 snug 
wraps. It is interesting to note here that in the manufacture of army 
shirts it took seven home workers to produce what one factory worker 
could produce in the same amount of time. The home worker's wage 
was 14.8 cents per hour and the factory worker's wage was 26 to 36 
cents per hour. 



334 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [AugUSt 

The proportion of women workers over 44 years of age steadily de- 
clines. At that age the women outnumber the men by about 1,000,000. 
Life Insurance and Trust Companies show 3,000,000 widows over 65 
years of age, largely dependents. Over 32 per cent of them lack the 
necessities, and 90 per cent the comforts of life. In employment this 
woman is known as a casual worker. 

This brief survey reviews the status of women in various age groups. 
Reclassifying these according to employment, we have: 1. The child 
employing industries. 2. Industries employing workers at mechanical 
and routine processes requiring Httle skill. 3. Industries requiring 
varying degrees of skiU. 4. Industries where highly skilled work brings 
the highest industrial opportunity but where the opportunity for secur- 
ing training is limited. 5. Industries pursued in the home for purposes 
of wage-earning. 

The first group is that affected by recent part-time legislation. To 
its members the Continuation School must render a personal and indi- 
vidual service. The desire of this girl and her immediate need and her 
working expectancy will determine what this service shall be. The 
Employment Management Conference, recently convened in Cleveland, 
said that the greatest drag in the working world to-day was lack of free- 
dom of choice in employment. It was said with reference to men. It is a 
right which women also covet — the right to self-determined employment. 

If the economic struggle is inevitably paramount the program of 
instruction should provide for majoring in the improvement of the 
wage-earning possibilities. 

An irreducible minimum of instruction is necessary in the essentials 
which make for health and hygienic hving, suitable food and clothing, 
and improvement of personal appearance. The National League of 
Women Workers, with a membership of 20,000 women, is focusing its 
attention on budgeting the working girls' income. Teachers of home 
economics in continuation schools must learn the economics of wage 
earning and realize that it is not socially or economically justifiable to 
teach girls how to cook their meals over an alcohol lamp, and make 
shirt waists after a long and exhausting day's labor, in order to make a 
good appearance on a meager wage. 

The employer will be "from Missouri." He must "be shown" that 
this group of workers is more stable, more efficient, because happier, and 
interested in their work, in wholesome recreation, and in good citizen- 
ship. An open minded employer is a great ally. The teacher who does 



1919] THE WAGE-EARNING GIRL AND HOME ECONOMICS 335 

this work must be social minded, must not be ashamed of her job, and 
must show interest in the problems of the employer and employee. 

An employer recently visited some home economics classes in a near- 
by school, which his workers were released to attend. He said the 
teachers never visited the plant, never asked what the shortcomings of 
the workers were, what the causes for waste were, what these families 
had to hve on. This certainly was a serious oversight. In another 
plant recently visited, where continuation classes were held under public 
supervision and control, the teacher reported that she had taught two 
years and had never gone out on the floor of the plant to observe the 
experiences of the young workers. This plant had a school for training 
its new workers; evening classes in factory organization and production; 
and cooking and sewing classes, instituted under the local Y. M. C. A. 
The Management could not get any response from the women in cook- 
ing and sewing, and consequently abandoned the enterprise. 

Sometimes unusual motives actuate the plants in their desire to 
institute homemaking classes for recreative purposes. Frequently, in 
fact almost always, emplojonent managers, superintendents, and fore- 
men have definite theories about women and their habits of thought 
and action, which influence their opinion of the work they are able to 
do, or the money they ought to earn. For example, one man was con- 
vinced that the policy of equal pay for equal work was a grave injustice 
to men because for recreation women had their sewing at home, while 
men had to go out and spend money. 

Workers in industries employing women in mechanical and manipula- 
tive processes usually have spent their youth in child-employing indus- 
tries, or at home, and show limitations in interest and outlook. What- 
ever will interest them and mend the tragedies of their existence should 
be pro\'ided. Quite often these women express a desire for academic 
education or home training in evening schools, but are unable to go 
because of the demands upon their physical strength in attending 
machines for a long working day. 

A visit to the day nurseries provided for young children of working 
mothers in many industrial plants will give a perfectly definite sugges- 
tion of coupling up instruction to mothers with the services rendered the 
children. 

The foregoing suggestions applj^ to all these classes of women workers. 

1. Homemaking training must be energizing rather than enervating. 

Instruction must be adapted to the attitude of mind of the worker. 
It is either a joj'ous job, a necessary activity, or drudgery. It can 



336 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [AugUSt 

become recreative, a business proposition, or a labor-saving device. It 
must be sold to the worker. 

Training should not penalize the worker, either in youth by unwonted 
emphasis upon it when the wage-earning needs are paramount; or at 
maturity, by adding it to a working day of already deadening length. 
The legal hours of employment must be considered. 

The employers of men and women who work together are more apt 
to encourage such classes in plants. Particularly is this true where 
waste and spending make constant calls for loans to the workers. 

2. Industrial training must be remunerative and beneficial to the 
worker: a. For the employer; it must fit into the scheme of produc- 
tion and profits. The organization must produce more, reduce waste, 
stabilize workers, and improve the morale of the plant, b. For the 
employee; it must mean increase in wage with increased production. 
It must mean permanence of employment and progression in employ- 
ment, and higher standards of living for the worker. 

3. Trade training for the independent worker must bring measur- 
able returns through: a. Greater technical skill, in selection and choice 
of material, in improved processes, in disposition of the product, b. 
Better service, in organization and cost accounting, in better emthods 
of handling trade. 

In every state some provision has been made for supervision of the 
teaching of home economics. The supervisors of trade and industrial 
work in every state, with one exception, are men. It stands to reason 
that these women will be consulted and asked for ad\'ice, particularly 
as the number of young people affected by the recent part-time legisla- 
tion in eleven states, will range from one-half to one-third girls. It is 
their responsibility when occasion makes the opportunity, for them to 
safeguard intelligently the wage-earning girls' future in these part-time 
and evening classes. Let the type of instruction be determined by the 
workers' dominant aim — whether to change to better work; to learn for 
home use; to help with the daily occupations. This means that the 
economics of wage earning must mean something more than it ever has 
to teachers of home economics if they are to be equal to their tasks. 
They must know more of production than is necessary to be an intel- 
ligent consumer. They must know better than they now do what are 
the problems of employer and employee. They must survey the fields 
of employment at close range and become sensitized to every factor 
reacting on the mind of the worker. They will then have some idea 
"how the other half lives." 



1919] ITALIAN COOKERY 337 

ITALIAN COOKERY 

EVA MARIOTTi' 

The distinguishing characteristic of the Italian kitchen is patience. 
Pazienza is the word the foreigner hears most frequently from the lips 
of all classes in Italy. 

All meats, except those fried, simmer. Slowly, very slowly they 
throw forth their juices, and at the same time become tender. One of 
the most savory stews is cooked in a casserole covered with an earthen- 
ware dish filled with cold water. As soon as this water begins to steam 
it must be thrown away, and the dish refilled with cold water. This 
process continues for two hours and a half. The result is epicurean, 
but an American cook would doubtless "give notice" if required to serve it. 

My first ghmpse of an Italian kitchen was in beautiful Florence. 
At intervals, on a May afternoon, my attention had been drawn to the 
tinkle of a bell in a remote part of the house, which had once been a 
convent. Curiosity induced me to follow the sound and led me to the 
kitchen, where I found a roast turning merrily on a spit, provided with 
a clock attachment which rang an alarm when the spit stopped turning 
to attract the attention of an absent-minded cook. Beneath the spit 
was an iron dish to catch the gravy which bears the witty name of the 
ghiotto (the greedy one). 

The Florentine range is a long stone slab, usually covered with blue 
and white tiles, containing holes a foot square with a grate for charcoal 
which must be kept ignited by the frequent use of a turkey feather fan. 

Another characteristic of Italian food is harmony, corresponding 
to atmosphere in art. Sliced ham is served with fresh figs to bring 
forth their flavor, and cheese is always eaten with pears, for the same 
reason. A popular saying goes to prove that even a peasant need not 
be told how good pears are with cheese. 

" Al cofiladino non gli si fa sapere 
Quanta sia buono il cacio con le pere." 

Peaches are soaked in white wine at the table. Strawberries are 
never eaten with cream, nor washed in water. They are washed in 
wine and served with claret or lemon juice and sugar. The small, wild 

• Signora Mariotti is an .American woman who married an Italian artist and has Kved 
many years in Italy. She formerly was a resident at Hull House and has recently gone 
to the Henry Street Settlement to work among Italians. 



338 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [AugUSt 

strawberry brings a larger price than the cultivated berry, which is 
called "garden" strawberry. There is a strange prejudice against 
blackberries and watermelons; they are never served at table. Black- 
berries are bought by chemists and made into a pulp considered good 
for sore throat, and melons are sold in the streets to picturesque urchins 
at a penny a slice, the man behind the cart brandishing a huge knife 
and shouting out that his fruit is fresh and that it bears the colors of 
Italy, red, white, and green! 

The subject of Italian cheeses, made in different cities, is fascinating. 
Cremona is almost as famous for her cheese as she is for her violins. 
Parma produces the huge deep yellow forms called Parmigiano which we 
grate on maccaroni. Urbino makes a small, round, white cheese, only 
to be had in spring, and inexpressibly good. A raw bean called Java, is 
served with it at table. The English name for these beans is horse 
beans. They come on the table in their long thick pods for each person 
to shell for himself. When cooked they become brown in color and 
have a bitter taste. 

Milan, surrounded by her rich pasture lands is the home of many 
varieties of cheese. Gorgonzola and Groiera are made there, and one 
called Millefiori (a thousand flowers), also Stracchino, yellow as gold, and 
soft as butter, a queen of cheeses. 

In Rome we have the famous ricotta, a cottage cheese made from 
unsalted goat's milk. It is brought into the city every morning in reed 
baskets, turned out upon a board, the snow white forms still bearing 
the impress of the basket, and looking very like piqu6 sunbonnets. 
Ricotta is eaten with pulverized coffee and sugar, or made into a pud- 
ding flavored with rum or marsala. 

Those who know Rome will remember some of the melodious cries 
that echo through her narrow streets, such as that of the man who sells 
giuncata fresca (junket) ; the cialdoni man who peddles whipped cream 
served in pastrj' cones, as ice-cream is sold to children here; or the fruit 
vendors, the orange man calling Portugalli because once upon a time 
oranges came from Portugal, and the cherry man with his heaped up 
cart of black and red fruit from Ravenna and Arezzo. He does not 
mention the word cherry in either the soft Tuscan or Roman speech, 
ciliegie or cerase) but calls lustily Ravenne or Arezzo fin o, as he walks 
along. 

In winter men sell hot baked apples about the streets. The man 
who passed through our street twice daily, sang out the words mele cotte 



1919] ITALIAN COOKERY 339 

pettorali (cooked apples for the lungs). Only at this season can be seen 
the large cake made of chestnut flour called migliaccio in Florence and 
castagnaccio in Rome. It is mixed with oil and water, without yeast, 
and sold at a penny a slice to school children. It does not look attrac- 
tive; but made at home, with raisins and pignoli (pine nuts) sprinkled 
through it, it is fairly good, but is more like pudding than cake. 

There is no country where bread is more venerated than in Italy. 
There it is still considered the "staff of life," and all food brought upon 
the table is referred to as companatico (with bread). One member of a 
family will ask another, "What have we for companatico today?" 
Bread is almost never made at home, but bakeries abound, and the 
bakers can be seen in their free hours, unclothed to the waist, cooling off 
at their shop doors. The loaves are usually round and flat, crisp and 
light, and unsalted, though Vienna bread and rolls are served at hotel 
tables. Pisa is the city said to excel in the making of bread. 

The peasantry live chiefly on corn meal, either as polenta (mush) or 
made into a flat cake, without yeast, and baked on the hearth between 
two red-hot stones. It is called crescia frpm crescere to grow or swell. 

Those are fortunate who have salt to mL\ with the dough, for in 
Southern Italy the peasants are often too poor to buy salt. I once had 
a maid who had never tasted it! 

Salt, like tobacco, is a government monopoly. The present King, 
with the keen insight into vital questions which distinguishes him, has 
tried ineffectually to remove the tax on salt. A few years before the 
war he suggested to Parliament the removal of the tax for a year, prom- 
ising to make good the deficit from his own private income, but his offer 
was rejected. 

The Tuscan and Umbrian peasantry' live almost exclusively on 
minestra. The word is usually translated soup, but it is made of vege- 
tables without stock. In the long summer afternoons the children on 
the podere (farm) bring in armfuls of beet-root, cabbage, broccoli, or 
potatoes to be cut into small pieces and boiled in water, into which is 
put what is called the batutto, a most important addition, consisting of 
a small slice of pork or lard chopped very fine with an onion, and some 
parsley called erbetta or "the dear little herb." To this is added a 
spoonful of conserva (the thick paste dried on wooden trenchers in the 
sun, in the season of ripe tomatoes). This minestra or minestrone has 
noodles or rice added on gala occasions and always grated cheese 
sprinkled over it. The cheese used is pecorino made from sheep's milk 
as the name impHes, and is strong in taste. 



340 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [AugUSt 

Never, except at Christmas and during the haying season, do the 
peasantry eat meat or drink wane, yet they are a hardy race with vast 
powers of endurance as shown in their splendid resistance to the cold 
of the Dolomites in the recent war. 

The Italian peasant still works under a feudal system. The man 
and wife who have a large family of children, have no difficulty in find- 
ing a farm, for which they pay no rent. They do not receive wages, 
but have a fixed share with the owner in the product of their labor. 
They are, however, required to pay half in the purchase of the Uve stock, 
and, should an animal die, they share the financial loss, which is often 
so serious a blow that the peasant is obliged to contract a debt with 
the master from which he never recovers. Therefore, the beautiful 
white oxen, who help him till the soil, receive the greatest care; no 
tramp is ever allowed a night's rest in the clean straw of the barn, and 
at the slightest sign of indisposition, the veterinary is called. Once, 
my husband was painting a pair of these milk-white oxen beneath the 
olives, and the Tuscan peasant came one morning to say that they could 
not pose, because it had rained heavily in the night, and the cattle 
would take cold if they stood in the damp. 

Unfortunately for the peasant, his dealings with the owner of the 
farm are conducted through a go-between called a.fattore; this person is 
usually unprincipled, with the sole thought of feathering his own nest 
at the expense of both parties. For this he has ample opportunities, 
for there are years when the crops fail, when a blight comes to the olive 
orchards or to the waving corn fields, and the peasant is forced to borrow 
money from the owner, whom, perhaps, he has never seen, and submit 
to whatever business transaction the fattore sees fit to impose. 

The childless peasant cannot easily find a good farm, for there are no 
fences in Tuscany or Umbria, save a few picturesque hedges, and there 
are sheep and pigs to be herded by small modern Giottos, or wee girls 
knitting their father's socks as they keep the geese from wandering 
into their neighbors' fields. 

The lack of grass in Central Italy is a serious question for the cattle. 
As the fields and meadows are arid in July and August, the leaves are 
stripped from the trees and given as fodder. It is an interesting sight 
to see the girls and boys cUnging to the branches, and throwing the 
leaves into a canvas bag hooked to the tree. The very top branches 
are inaccessible, thus giving the stripped trees the appearance of feather 
dusters against the sky, as painted in the landscapes of Perugino. I 



1919] ITALMN COOKERY 341 

think it is not generally knowTi that all Italian villages, however small 
and remote, have two physicians and a veterinar}- supported by the 
town. They are called medici condotti and the inhabitants are not re- 
quired to pay anything for their \isits. But the peasant has a grateful 
soul and the vdie of a surgeon told me that her table was bountifully 
supplied with chickens and fruit from her husband's patients in the 
country round about. 

No discussion of Italian food can be complete that omits the so-called 
national dish maccheroni. Like many other things about Italy it is 
misunderstood over here. Macaroni is only one kind of what is called 
pasta. There are many varieties, each taking its name from a resem- 
blance to something in common use. For instance: spaghetti from 
spago (string), literally translated the dear little strings; fettucini, 
narrow tape; capellini, fine hairs; vermicelli, dear little worms; cannoliccki, 
little tubes; rigatoni, hea\y lines; penne, pens; lumachine, snails; grandini, 
hail; and cappellette di Bologna, hats, the crowns stuffed with chicken, 
ham, and spices and eaten at Christmas in chicken broth. 

These varieties are made in a factory, dried in the open air, and sold 
by the pound. But all private famiUes make the so-called pasta fatla 
in casa (home made macaroni) on Sundays and hoHdays. Flour is 
heaped on a kneading board, into which eggs are broken to be worked 
into the flour with a light touch, the rule being an egg for each person. 
This is rolled out as thin as pie-crust, and spread on a sheet to dry. 
The critical moment is when it is ready to cut; if too dry it is brittle and 
breaks, if too moist it sticks to the knife. It is then rolled like a jelly 
roll and cut rapidly into any width desired, shaken out and plunged 
into boiling salted water. As soon as it rises to the surface it is cooked, 
and should be drained immediately and dressed with butter, grated 
cheese, and tomato sauce in summer, and with gravy and chicken 
giblets in winter. 

The Italians serve many vegetables that we have in this country, 
but do not use. They gather baby squashes, called zucchine in Florence, 
and cocuzze in Rome; they are boiled for salad, stuffed with tuna fish 
and baked, or cut into slivers, without the seeds, and fried in the perfect 
olive oil, characteristic of the ItaUan cuisine. The flowers of the squash 
are also delicious fried. I have eaten them stuffed with sardines. 

Many Italian food stuffs can be had of dealers in our large markets 
here. There is a pale yellow bean called cece known here as pea-bean. 
They must be soaked overnight, and make an excellent puree, with the 
addition of a very little oil, rosemary, and onion. 



342 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [AugUSt 

But the bean dear to the Romans is the lentil. The poet Martial who 
lived A. D. 43, mentions it in his famous distichs, placed at the side of 
each guest at a dinner party in ancient Rome. He writes: "If the pale 
lentil boils for you in the red earthenware pot, you may often decline 
the suppers of rich patrons," and again, "These radishes which I present 
to you, and which are suited to the cold season of winter, Romulus still 
eats in heaven." 

For this toothsome product of ancient Egv'pt — the lentil — Esau sold 
his birthright, and Daniel fed on it in preference to the food provided 
him from the King's table. Lentils are small and flat, much the color 
of the soil, from which they must be well cleansed before washing, then 
soaked in the water in which they are to be boiled, because they con- 
tain iron in quantity. As a puree they are excellent, but stewed with 
chopped celery, they persuade one to regard Esau's choice as pardonable. 

As a nation we throw away much food that is made into savory dishes 
in Europe. Pig's liver rolled in bread crumbs, mixed with grated cheese 
and sage, then wrapped in pieces of the caul of pork, and fried, is a 
delicious dish. 

Another plate is called Saltinhocca (jump down your throat). It 
consists of thin slices of veal, each covered by a small piece of ham and 
a bay leaf, held in place by wooden toothpicks. Frati (monks) are made 
of chopped beef tied into a cabbage leaf. 

Somehow, housekeeping in Italy seems less complicated than it does 
here. No butcher or grocer keeps a wagon. Your cook sallies forth 
each morning with her basket on her arm in Florence, or a large gaudy 
handkerchief in her hand in Rome, supplied with money for which she 
must render an account to the last centime when the change is spread 
on the kitchen table upon her return. Like everything himian this 
custom has its disadvantages. Should the cook be attractive, she takes 
a very long time to do the spese (buying). Then, most servants make 
the incerto (uncertain gain), that is, they quote false prices. 

The advantage of Italian marketing is that food can be bought in 
small quantities, such as the breast of a chicken or one wing. As no one 
has a refrigerator, food is never provided in great abundance, thus 
reducing the housekeeper's problem of left overs. 

It thrills me that this tired old world is taking such a deep interest in 
the food question. Yet I tremble lest some may come to favor the 
exclusive use of meat lozenges and soup pellets to be swallowed standing! 



1919] VOCATIONAL EDUCATION A^T) HOME ECONOMICS 343 

It is a far cry from the days of the dinner parties of Lucullus, whose 
recumbent guests fed on peacock tongues, to the Broadway automatic 
lunchroom! But in between come the great banquets depicted in the 
lovely old paintings of the past, Tintoretto's "Marriage of Cana" in 
Venice, and Paul Veronese's huge picture in the Louvre entitled "The 
Supper in the House of Levi," reminding us that grace, wit, and beauty 
adorn and uplift the partaking of food. 



THE RELATIONSHIP BETWEEN THE STATE SUPERVISOR 

OF VOCATIONAL EDUCATION AND THE CITY 

SUPERVISOR OF HOME ECONOMICS > 

MARTHA H. FRENCH 
Stale Supervisor of Smilh-Hughes Schools, Michigan 

The Smith-Hughes Law, enacted to promote vocational education in 
specified fields, sets certain definite boundaries for the control of work 
to be subsidized under the law. It provides for a Federal Boarc for 
Vocational Education which shall act as a governing and administra- 
tive body in interpreting the law. Each state voting to accept this 
grant must have, designated through legislative authority, a State 
Board of Control for Vocational Education, whose duty it is to for- 
mulate plans of procedure for the various types of work to be done, 
and to administer all funds coming to the state from the Smith-Hughes 
appropriation. Through this board the State Plan for Vocational 
Education is set up and presented to the Federal Board, and, when 
accepted by it, the state becomes entitled to the benefits of the law. It 
then becomes the duty of the State Board to appoint administrative 
officers to carry out its policies, and one of these officers is the State 
Supervisor of Home Economics. 

In general then, the state supervisor is the agency through which the 
State Board of Control gains its knowledge of the progress and achieve- 
ments of the schools of the state, and at the same time the agency through 
which the schools of the state become informed as to the policies and 
requirements of the State Plan for Vocational Education. The official 

' Presented at the meeting of the American Home Economics Association held in con- 
nection with the Division of Superintendence, N. E. A., Chicago, Feb., 1919. 



344 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [AugUSt 

bulletin, Organization and Administration of Home Economics Educa- 
tion, sent out by the Federal Board to acquaint workers with the infor- 
mation it contains, states the duties of the supervisor as mainly coming 
under two heads: 1. To assist teachers who are already in service, and 
to assist communities which have already started something in the way 
of instruction along vocational lines, or who are desirous of instituting 
a program of vocational instruction. 2. To inspect and check up the 
work done in the schools of the state. It further says that to fulfill 
these duties satisfactorily the qualifications for a state supervisor should 
be at least those demanded for teachers of this subject, with the added 
requirement of two years of successful experience in teaching home 
economics. Besides this, she should have had administrative experi- 
ence, and have studied school organization. She must be qualified by 
training and experience, then, to encourage and stimulate, to advise 
and assist, to inspect and suggest, to approve and disapprove the work 
of the schools in her province which is her state. 

Were we to analyze the duties of the city supervisor, and her neces- 
sary qualifications we should find them almost identical with those 
outlined for the state supervisor. In her city, she is the person who 
keeps the contact between the Board of Education, or its administrators, 
and the schools of the system. She too must carry information to her 
teachers as to policies and requirements. She must encourage, stimu- 
late, advise, assist, approve, and disapprove. Though her field is 
smaller, in some ways her task is greater than that of the state worker, 
for she must know her conditions more definitely. 

What shall be the attitude of these two workers, each with the same 
aim for her own territory', toward each other? The largest factor in the 
relationship is cooperation. Each may aid the other and both are 
indispensable for the best interests of the subject. Just as the state 
supervisor is responsible to the Federal supervisor, or agent, for the 
Smith-Hughes schools of the state, so the city supervisor is responsible 
to the state supervisor for the schools of her city. Visits to the schools 
of the state are made by the Federal agent in company with the state 
supervisor, and suggestions and criticisms are made. In the city, 
visits are made by both supervisors in the same way. They work 
together. 

Many things have combined to make the old routine in home eco- 
nomics teaching a thing of the past. Cooking and saving no longer 
constitute the sum total of accepted material along this line. The 



1919] VOCATIOXAL EDUCATION AKD HOME ECONOMICS 345 

Smith-Hughes law sets a broader conception. The period of struggle 
through which the world has just been passing has opened our eyes to 
the emphatic need of training in wise spending, in knowledge of the 
comparative values of the necessities and luxuries of life. It has brought 
home the need of a consideration of the social phase of the subject in 
connection with the family, and with the larger group of society. In 
fact, home economics has come to mean to the majority of its workers 
what it has long meant to the minority, namely, the study of a group of 
subjects and activities centering around the home. The supervisor of 
broad vision is constantly working to keep this thought alive in her 
schools and to make its results apparent in the homes of her students, 
and as many more as possible. The city supervisor, knowing her terri- 
tory even more definitely than does the state supervisor may see even 
more definite results in the homes, and may offer valuable suggestions 
to the state supervisor who comes into contact with the homes less often 
and less intimately. On the other hand, the state super\asor meets a 
larger group and a more diversified need and may aid the city supervisor 
by fresh suggestions and inspiration from the outside group. Often the 
most interesting experiences come from the isolated group, and may aid 
in solving a particularly difficult problem in the city. 

On occasions, the state supervisor may act as a buffer between a city 
supervisor and her principals or superintendent, or between a city 
supervisor and the Board of Education — and their wives — for with all 
due respect to the wives, be it said that they are often quite a problem 
in connection with home economics departments. Their experience no 
doubt is valuable, but even valuable experience may be marred by lack 
of the knowledge of school organization, and young teachers may not 
know what causes the friction. Both state and city supervisors serve a 
common purpose in that they aid and inspire the young and inexperi- 
enced teacher, and they may supplement each other in this field. A 
most crying need in the educational world today is for the improvement 
of the teacher already in service. Young, inexperienced girls struggling 
with the weight of the world on their shoulders, may be saved from 
ruinous discouragement by a little timely assistance in the organization 
and management of their problem. Oftentimes, the inexperienced 
teacher needs only to have the assurance that her superiors have faith 
in her ability to bring to her the self-confidence which spells success. 
.\nother means of aiding teachers which is open to both state and city 
supervisors is that of working out curricula. These should be elastic 



346 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [AugUSt 

enough to provide for variations of types of students and yet be definite 
to the point of restraining scattering work. To put her work across is 
naturally the aim of every teacher, and the suggestions and limitations 
of a well formulated course of study may be of great assistance in doing 
this. 

The state supervisor is much more dependent upon the city super- 
visor's loyal support than seems evident upon first thought, for it is the 
people within the various schools who must put into the every day work 
suggestions and ideas of the state workers. She must be free to suggest, 
and if necessary to criticise adversely the work being done. Her field 
must be clearly defined as giving her authority in all schools which are 
being maintained imder the Smith-Hughes law, whether these are 
within the province of a city supervisor or not, but she should have 
tact enough to modify suggestions when possible to meet the desires of 
the city supervisor. Of course, the law stipulates some very definite 
requirements, and from these the state leader has no right to deviate, 
but where there is a chance for judgment, she should ever be glad to 
accept the ideas of a city leader. Neither of these workers can afford to 
perform her duties with less than her utmost skill as each is responsible, 
for doing her best, to those in authority who have placed her in her 
position. They must work hand in hand, shoulder to shoulder, each 
suggesting, each accepting, each recognizing the province of the other, 
and above all, each doing her utmost to put the message forth so that 
it will really function in the homes and lives of those who are studying 
home economics. 

While this article has mentioned only the city supervisor and schools 
in connection with the state supervisor of home economics and her work, 
yet analogies regarding the other schools of the state may easily be 
drawn. Here is a work of aiding and upbuilding, and whether it be 
done with the cup of cold water or the portion of bitter medicine the 
thought back of it should be the same — the development of work in 
our schools which shall build for better homes. 



1919] R.'iTIONING FIEE StJFFERERS 347 

R.\TIONIXG THE FIRE SUFFERERS OF MINNESOTA 

LUCY CORDINER 
Universily Extension Service, University Farm, St. Paul 

Late in October, 1918, the Home Demonstration Agent of St. Louis 
County wrote to the Agricultural Extension Division of the University 
of Minnesota, asking that a scheme of rationing be devised that could 
be used for those fire sufferers who must receive food throughout the 
winter from public channels. It was essential that the scheme be suffi- 
ciently complete to be used by people who were not food specialists as 
it might be impossible for a sufficient number of home economics workers 
to be detailed for the work of compiling the dietaries. 

Winters in northern Minnesota are extremely cold, often complicated 
with wind. The men whose land was burned would be obliged to work 
out of doors, clearing the land, salvaging whatever timber might be 
deemed useful, and building to replace the houses and other buildings 
destroyed. In the majority of cases the women and older boys of these 
farms work with the men; consequently, the ration would be of large 
caloric value. Therefore, a dietary approximately 5500 calories was 
planned for the men and boys above fifteen years of age, and 3500 
calories for the women and boys and girls above twelve years of age. 
The children below twelve were planned for according to their age, 
allowing in every case the maximum. 

For the first few weeks after the fire, suppUes were furnished by the 
American Red Cross, and later the Minnesota Fire Commission took 
over the responsibility of supplying these people with food. 

The workers who compiled the ration spent the months of November 
and December in the burned area. Families in St. Louis and Carlton 
County were visited and their habits and needs observed. The com- 
missary department was also visited with a view to learning what foods 
the people asked for and preferred. St. Louis County was supplied 
from Duluth, the Armory there being used as headquarters, and furnish- 
ing ample quarters for all departments of relief work. In Moose Lake 
supplies were furnished not only to the people of that village and the 
country closely adjacent, but also to the villages and districts around 
Automba, Lawler, Kettle River, and Sturgeon Lake. This meant that 
a large supply of food of all kinds must be kept constantly on hand in 
the local grocery dispensary, as over 600 families had to be provided 



348 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [AugUSt 

for. Because of the season and inadequate railroad facilities, there were 
times when the supplies were wholly inadequate, and the supply of one 
or another commodity would be entirely exhausted, sometimes several 
days before a restock arrived. The most serious deficiency was flour, 
which had frequently to be doled out in bulk, each family receiving a 
few pounds, the shortage being made up with ready-to-serve cereals, 
and with baker's bread. There was always a good supply of baker's 
bread because there were state troops in the district up to Christmas. 
When flour did arrive in carload lots it was a pathetic sight to watch 
the men and women run to the cars, receive a sack and carry it quickly 
to their wagons or other conveyances. Fresh meat was even more 
scarce and the quantity wholly insufiicient to meet the needs. Occa- 
sionally there were supphes of corned beef, in bulk, of salt pork, and of 
salt fish. The principal meat, however, was canned, canned corned 
beef and canned salmon. The salmon was very popular and as families 
were abnormally large, because unburned houses were shared with as 
many neighbors as could be crowded together, the requests for some 
types of food were at times startling. One man took home with him 
fiity-four cans of salmon, and a woman requested three dozen cans of 
soup. These were foods not generally used prior to the disaster, but 
introduced through the generosity of producers, and liked because they 
entailed no work in preparation. Vegetables and milk were also obtain- 
able only in cans, and the variety was not very great. 

The psychological effect of the food shortage together with a short- 
age in household furnishings was marked. Occasionally men or women 
lost their poise, began to pity themselves, and were suspicious of their 
neighbors, who were possibly receiving, they thought, an excessive 
quantity of supplies. The results were that they came frequently to 
town and the time lost was apparent in the building operations. 

It was evident too, at an early date, that there must be a changein 
the type of food supplied and the quantity must be stabilized. A large 
number of the fire sufi'erers contracted influenza, and the mortality 
was very high. Those who survived must have nourishing food and 
others who were showing effects of a restricted diet must receive one 
more generous and corrective. Consequently efforts were made to 
obtain root vegetables, in carload lots, and the people were urged to 
reconstruct their root cellars so that they might receive as large a supply 
of vegetables as was obtainable and keep them in good condition. There 
was every evidence that the recipients were glad to return to their former 



1919] 



RATIONING FIRE SUTFERERS 



349 



food habits. Fortunately cabbage and onions were among the most 
popular winter vegetables, and these were abundant throughout the 
state because the crop was large. 

The outlook from all homes was necessarily depressing. The beau- 
tiful forests had been destroyed, and many of the burned trees were 
prone. The houses were very tiny, 16 feet by 24 feet being the size of 
the largest, although the Commission later allowed a kitchen annex to 
families which were very large. There was no form of entertainment, 
no diversion of any kind, and for psychological reasons it was necessary 
that the dietaries cover as large a variety of food as was compatible with 
the means at hand. For this reason also, it was deemed unwise to hold 
strictly to caloric requirement when the only pleasure was that of eating. 
Consequently the ration was large. 

Eggs and cheese were conspicuous for their absence in the dietaries. 
This was made necessary because of the price. Many of the people 
succeeded in getting a few hens and had their own supply of eggs. 

When the family dietary was explained, the people were urged to use 
fresh meat and fresh fish, and only one pound of salt pork per week was 

Weekly ration for adtdts 



Butter 

Cereals (oatmeal, cornmeal and rice) 

Fat 

Flour 

Fruit (raisins, apricots, apples, and prunes) 

Meat and fish 

Milk 

Dried beans or peas 

Potatoes 

Root vegetables, onions, and cabbage 

Sugar 

Syrup 

Coffee 

Cornstarch 

Salt 

Pepper 

Vinegar 

Yeast 

Baking powder 

Baking soda 

Soap 



UAN 


WOMAN 


MAN AND 

WIFE 


lib. 


lib. 




2 lbs. 


3J lbs. 


2i lbs. 




6 lbs. 


lib. 


lib. 




2 lbs. 


7 lbs. 


5 lbs. 




14 lbs. 


lib. 


Jib. 




n lbs. 


4 lbs. 


3 lbs. 




6 to 7 lbs. 


2qts. 


2qts. 




4qts. 


11 lbs. 


ilb. 




li lbs. 


24 lbs. 


15 lbs. 




f to 1 bu. 


to h bu. 








12 lbs. 


10 lbs. 




22 lbs. 


ilb. 


ilb. 




lib. 


fib. 


10 oz. 




li lbs. 


Jib. 


Ub. 




ilb. 




1 lb. 




1 lb. 


ilb. 


lib. 


c 


ilb. 


Joz. 


1 oz. 


•i: 


i oz. 


Ipt. 


Iqt. 




Ipt. 


2 cakes 


Ipkg. 


-^ 


3 cakes 


4oz. 


lib. 




6 oz. 


1 oz. 


-■- lb. 


s 


2oz. 


2 bars 


10 bars 




4 bars 



350 



THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS 



[August 



Weekly ration for children 



Butter 

Peanut butter 

Cereals (oatmeal, corn- 
meal and rice) 

Fat 

Flour 

Fruit 

Meat and fish 

Milk (never less than 1 

cup per day) 

Dried beans or peas 

Potatoes 

Root vegetables, onions 

and cabbage 

Sugar 

Syrup 

Salt 

Pepper 

Vinegar 

Soap 



9 TO 12 


6 TO 9 


VEASS 


YEARS 


8oz. 


8oz. 


4 oz. 


3 oz. 


2^ lbs. 


2 lbs. 


ilb. 


2oz. 


4 lbs. 


3 lbs. 


fib. 


Ub. 


n lbs. 


Jib. 


7pts. 


7 pts. 


Jib. 


ilb. 


12 lbs. 


10 lbs. 


7 lbs. 


4 lbs. 


ilb. 


ilb. 


Jib. 


lib. 


3 oz. 


2 oz. 


i oz. 


ioz. 


ipt. 


ipt. 


Ibar 


1 bar 



Butter 

Cereals .... 

Flour 

Dried fruit. . 
Meat or fish 
Milk 

Potatoes. . . 

Vegetables . 

Sugar 

Syrup 



8oz. 
1| lbs. 

2 lbs. 
J to jibs 
lib. 
7 pts. to 
7qts. 
5 lbs. 

2i lbs. 

ilb. 

8oz. 



Soz. 
lib. 

lib. 
14 oz. 
ilb. 

7qts. 

2 lbs. 

1| lbs. 
Jib. 
4 oz. 



SUBSTITUTIONS AND EXPLANATION 

Peanut butter may take the place of i the butter in individual rations. Any kind of 
margarine may be used in the ration of adults. 

Fresh fish may be used, li times the weight of meat. 

Canned fish may be used as fresh fish. 

Dried meat of any kind, | weight of meat. 

Evaporated milk is | the measure of whole fresh milk. 

Substitute canned com, peas or beans for dried beans or peas, — 1 can for i lb. of dried 
legumes. 

Substitute tomatoes for turnips — 1 can of tomatoes for 3 lbs. of the other vegetable. 

Do not make the vegetable substitutions more than once a week. 

The small size of the potatoes in northern Miimesota accounts for the large ration. 

All rations of potatoes, vegetables, and meat aUow for i inedible wafte. 

The variety of seasoning and type of cookery when there is a woman present, explains the 
apparent inconsistency of the ration for man and wife. 

Tea may be substituted for coffee in the ration of adults. Two ounces per week for each 
adult should be sufficient. 

Cocoa should not take the place of milk and if used should be made with milk, 1 lb. per 
week for a family of sbc. 

Hardtack — one pound per week for each 4 persons. 

Vinegar essential to give flavor to the food. One pint for a family of four. 

Allow 1 bar of soap for each child in the family and two bars for each adult. This will 
care for all cleaning and for the family washing. 



1919] EXPERIMENTAL COOKERY 351 

allowed for each family of six to use with beans. An occasional sub- 
stitution of dried fish such as lute-fish, or salt cod fish, or pickled herring 
was allowed, but the use of canned meats and vegetables was discouraged. 
Dried fruit was allowed because fresh fruit was prohibitive, and some 
fruit is absolutely necessary in a ration for children and those in poor 
health. It also helped to give a pleasing variety to the ration. 

The dietary was planned during the period of sugar conservation and 
only a small amount allowed. Sirup was obtainable because of the 
generosity of producers in the state. As there were no e\'il results from 
the small amount of sugar, and the general health was not affected, the 
quantity allowed was not increased. 

Evaporated milk was used, and the amount was the least compatible 
with the maintenance of health. Fresh milk was supplied when obtain- 
able. WTierever possible it was urged that skimmed milk and butter 
milk be obtained from the creameries. In some localities it was not 
necessary to ration milk and in certain cases it was considered wise to 
supply a cow. 

The system of rationing could not be put into effect until supplies 
could be obtained in adequate quantities, until the system was author- 
ized by the Fire Commission and the families to receive help designated 
by the permanent Local Rehabilitation Committees. Therefore a 
period of ten to twelve weeks passed with the somewhat unstable condi- 
tions described. Finally, however, the system was adopted in the larger 
districts and made effective through the local merchants. It was re- 
ported that the stable ration resulted in greater contentment, in concen- 
trated effort to rebuild quickly, and in the release of men of the families 
for remunerative labor which, in turn, resulted in complete independence 
of a great number of those cared for. 



EXPERIMENTAL COOKERY 

Asa result of the work of the Cooperative Research Committee, whose 
communication was in the April Journal {p. 166), a number of papers 
were presented at the annual meeting and will appear in the Journal 
from time to time. Besides longer papers, several records were given of 
shorter research problems. Two of these are printed on the following 
pages. — Editor. 



352 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [AugUSt 

BREAD BAKING IN PANS OF DIFFERENT MATERIALS 
Physics Laboratory, University of Washington, Professor Frederick A. Osborn, in Charge 

To study the effect of the material of pans in bread baking, pans of 
tin, granite, Russia iron, pyrex, aluminum (polished and unpolished) 
were used. The oven was a small electric oven fitted with a mercury 
thermometer through the top and extending to the center of the oven. 
The temperatures for all the baking tests were as follows: 400°F. at the 
start, 420° at the end of 60 minutes and an average temperature for the 
bakmg of 363°F. =»= 3°. 

The bread was the same for one test of all the pans, and three separate 
tests were run. The burning or dark browning of the bread in the 
increasing order — greater burning was the same in each test and was as 
follows: aluminum (polished), aluminum (unpoHshed), pyrex, tin, Russia 
iron, granite. The bread in the granite pan was burned on the bottom 
for nearly half its length and on one end completely. In the poUshed 
aluminum pan, the bread was a satisfactory light brown, with no burn 
at all. 

The work was done by Miss Frances Grant Heverlo, a student in the 
Physics of the Home course, University of Washington. 

CAKE MAKING 
Home Economics Department, Milwaukee-Downer College 

Aim of experiment. To determine the best temperature for baking 
"butter" cake in the form of a loaf. 

Miss Denton's formula for cake and method of manipulation were 
used. 

Six loaves were made — three variations in temperature and two cakes 
under each variation. 

Record of Operation in Cake Making. 

1. Serial numbers designating cakes — 1, 2, and 3. 

2. Formula used — Lard, 42 grams; granulated sugar, 106 grams; 
milk, I cup or 163 grams; flour, 168 grams; baking powder (Ryzon), 
8 grams; vanilla extract, 1 teaspoon; egg (one), 48 grams (after beaten). 

3. Description of flour — Bread flour. 

4. Description of other ingredients — Fat — lard (leaf); sugar — fine, 
granulated; baking-powder — Ryzon. Added with last third of flour 
and beaten 2 minutes. 



1919] 



EXPERIMENTAL COOKERY 



353 



5. Manipulation — 

(a) Cream lard and sugar together with small wooden spoon for 5 
minutes. (Rate of motion, 100 motions per minute.) 

(b) Beat egg 2 minutes with Dover egg-beater. (About 300 revolu- 
tions.) 

(c) Beat egg, sugar, and fat together 2 minutes. (About 170 motions 
per minute.) 

(d) Add flour and milk alternately, and add about ^ of each at a 
time, using just enough motions to mix (about 24). 

Sift baking powder with last third of flour and beat batter 2 minutes. 
(Rate of beating batter 175 motions per minute.) 

6. Description of pan — 

(a) Material — Tin-plated steel. 

(b) Form and number — Bread pan- — ^Loaf — 6 used. 

(c) Dimensions of pan — 8.6 in. x 4.7 in. x 2.7 in. or 22 cm. x 12 cm. 
X 7 cm. 

Height of sides above batter — 4 cm. or 1.57 in. 

7. Weight of cake before baking — No. 1, 511 grams; No. 2, 524 grams; 
No. 3, 512 grams. 

8. Record of oven temperature— No. 1, 121° to 177°C. (250°-350° F.) ; 
No. 2, 176°-220°C. (350°-428° F.); No. 3, 204°-280°C. (400°-536° F.). 

Detail of Oven Temperature 



TlUE 


NO. 1 


HO. 2 


NO. 3 




deg.C. 
121 

148 
150 
152 
154 
159 
163 
168 
175 
176 
177 


dtg.C. 

176 
172 
180 
182 
183 
190 
192 
202 
220 


des.C. 
204 




195 




220 




240 




250 




280 



























9. Temperature of center of cakes when first taken from oven- 
No. 1, 90°C.; No. 2, 90°C.; No. 3, 101°C. 

10. Weight of cakes after baking — No. 1, 476.5 grams; No. 2, 479 
grams; No. 3, 450 grams. 



354 



THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS 



[August 



11. Percentage loss in baking — No. 1, 6.75 per cent; No. 2, 8.78 
per cent; No. 3, 12.1 per cent. 

12. Score card: 





NO. 1 


NO. 2 


NO. 3 




8 


8 


6 


Shape, color and general appearance 


E.xcellent in 


Excellent 


Too dark in color 




shape, color 


Even across 


High in center 




and appear- 


top 






ance 








10 


10 


8 


Crust 


Tender, crisp, 


Same as No. 1 


Less tender; dry 




not sugary 




and thick 




25 


20 


12 




Moist, tender, 
not sticky 


Moist and tender 






moist 




Grain — fine. 


Less fine — few 


Coarse with 




pores evenly 


tunnels 


tunnels 




distributed 








25 


22 


18 




Good flavor 








"Melts in 


Feels coarse in 


Feels grainy 




mouth" 


mouth 






9 


8 


6 


Lightness or specific volume 


1584 cc. 


1191 cc. 


1254 cc. 




(Evenly light) 




(High in center 
only) 




10 


10 


8 






Total 


87 


78 


58 







13. Composition of cake as baked — 



Lard 

Sugar 

Flour solids, (147.2 grams) . 
Milk solids, (21.19 grams). . 
Egg solids, (11.5 grams) . . . 



NO. 1 


NO. 2 


percent 


per cent 


8.8 


8.77 


22.24 


22.12 


30.89 


30.75 


4.44 


4.42 


2.41 


2.40 



NO. 3 



per cent 

9,33 

23.55 

32.51 

4.70 

2.55 



Conclusions — The cakes baked at the lowest temperature, 121° to 
177° C, were in every way superior to those baked at the higher 
temperatures. 



FOR THE HOMEMAKER 

A BELATED INDUSTRY^ 

JANE ADDAMS 

The industry which the title of this paper designates as belated is 
that of domestic labor, which is belated, both ethically and industrially; 
the status of its ethics operating very largely as the determining factor 
in its industrial situation. 

It may be well to make clear at once that this paper does not treat 
of this occupation as a domestic art, in which the members of the house- 
hold engage and spend time which would otherwise have no economic 
value. As an art it is charming and destined to endure so long as women 
cherish their homes and express affection by personal service. This 
paper treats of the occupation solely as an industry', by means of which 
large numbers of women are earning a livelihood. An attempt is made 
to present this industry from the point of view of those women who are 
working in households for wages. 

This industry was little affected by the industrial revolution of the 
eighteenth century, and is a surviving remnant of the household system 
which preceded the factory system. Both employers and employes, 
for the most part, hold moral conceptions and notions of duty which are 
tinged with feudalism. There is a tendency for each worker to become 
isolated from her fellow workers; to be dependent upon the protection 
and goodwill of her employer, and to have little share in the corporate 
life of the community. The employes in this industry practically lead 
the lives of those who have not discovered the power to combine; of 
those who "cannot create a sufhciently coherent organization to sus- 
tain themselves under changing conditions." 

We are all more or less familiar with the conditions of the trades 
affected most quickly by the industrial revolution. We know that there 
were painstaking, industrious, and virtuous men among the weavers, 

' Reprinted in part, with permission, from the American Journal of Sociology, March. 
1896. Though written so many years ago the article is not out of date. The statements 
are true today, and these conditions must be faced. — Editor's note. 

355 



356 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [AugUSt 

who were too dull to seize upon the changed conditions of their trades, 
and who continued to work many hours a day at their hand looms until 
they and their families perished miserably. The possession of certain 
individual virtues did not make them of industrial value. 

This breaking-up of long established industrial habits and occupations 
and the necessity for a difficult readjustment comes about constantly 
with changing conditions, and it is easy to believe that we are in the 
midst of one of these sweeping industrial changes now; in fact, that it 
has already come about in regard to many commodities formerly pro- 
duced in the household which are now produced in factories; that it 
would naturally come about in regard to most of them, if women did 
not oppose it and fatuously believe that within these old methods is 
bound up the sanctity of family Hfe. Most of us can remember the 
conscientious struggle with which our grandmothers slowly gave up 
homemade candles, and some of us may dimly recall homespun sheets. 
All of us know something of the conservative reserve with which our 
mothers, later, gave up the pleasures and economies of homemade soap 
in spite of the lively competition and seductive advertisements offered 
by the factory product. 

As industrial conditions have changed, the household has become 
simplified, from the mediaeval affair of journeyman, apprentices and 
maidens who spun and brewed, to the family proper; to those who love 
each other and live together in ties of affection and consanguinity. 
Were this process complete, we should have no problem of household 
employment. But, even in households comparatively humble, there is 
still one aHen, one who is neither loved nor loving. The modern family 
has dropped the man who made its shoes, the woman who spun its 
clothes, and to a large extent the woman who washes them, but it stoutly 
refuses to drop the woman who cooks its food; it strangely insists that 
to do that would be to destroy family life. The cook is uncomfortable, 
the family is uncomfortable; but it wiU not drop her as all her fellow- 
workers have been dropped, although the cook herself insists upon it. 
So far has this insistence gone that every possible concession is made to 
retain her. I know an employer in one of the suburbs who built a bay 
at the back of her house so that her cook might have a pleasant room in 
which to sleep, and one in which to receive her friends. This employer 
naturally felt aggrieved when the cook refused to stay in her bay. 
Viewed in an historic light, this employer might just as well have added 
a bay to her house for her shoemaker, and then deemed him ungrateful 



1919] A BELATED INDUSTRY 357 

because he declined to live in it. The employer misunderstood the 
situation. She did not realize that the desire to live with one's kinsfolk 
is stronger in most of us than the desire for the comforts to be found in 
a bay. 

The household employe has no regular opportunity for meeting other 
workers of her trade, and of attaining with them the dignity of a cor- 
porate body. The industrial isolation of the household employe results, 
as isolation in a trade must always result, in a lack of progress in the 
methods and products of that trade and a lack of aspiration and educa- 
tion in the workman. Whether we recognize this isolation as a cause or 
not, I think we are all ready to acknowledge that household labor has 
been in some way belated; that the improvements there have not kept 
up with the improvements in other occupations. This is largely due to 
lack of esprit de corps among the employes, which keeps them collec- 
tively from fresh achievements, as the absence of education in the indi- 
vidual keeps her from improving her implements. Under this isolation, 
not only must one set of utensils serve divers purposes, and as a con- 
sequence tend to a lessened volume, and lower quality of work, but 
inasmuch as the apphances are not made to perform the fullest work, 
there is an amount of capital invested disproportionate to the result 
when measured by the achievement in other branches of industry. 
More important than this is the result of the isolation upon the worker 
herself. There is nothing more devastating to the inventive faculty, 
nor fatal to a flow of mind and spirit, than the constant feeling of lone- 
liness and the absence of that fellowship which makes our public opinion. 

If an angry foreman reprimands a girl for breaking a machine, twenty 
other girls hear him, and the culprit knows perfectly well their opinion 
as to the justice or injustice of her situation. In either case she bears it 
better for knowing that, and for not thinking it over in solitude. If a 
household employe breaks a utensil or a piece of porcelain and is repri- 
manded by her employer, too often the invisible jury is the family of 
the latter, who naturally uphold her censorious position and intensify 
the feeling of loneliness in the employe. 

The isolation of the household employe is perhaps inevitable so long 
as the employer holds her belated ethics; but the situation is made even 
more diiEcult by the character and capacity of the girls who enter this 
industry. In any great industrial change the workmen who are per- 
manently displaced are those who are too dull to seize upon changed 
conditions. The workmen who have knowledge and insight, and who 



358 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [AugUSt 

are in touch with their time, quickly reorganize. There are many 
noble exceptions, but it follows that on the whole the enterprising girls 
of the community go into factories, and the less enterprising go into 
households. It is not a question of skill, or energy, of conscientious 
work, which will enable a girl to rise industrially while she is in the 
household; she is not in the rising movement. She is belated in a class 
composed of the unprogressive elements of the commimity, and which 
is recruited constantly from the victims of misfortune and incompetence, 
by girls who are learning the language, girls who are timid and slow, or 
girls who look at life solely from the savings bank point of view. The 
distracted housekeeper struggles with these unprogressive girls, holding 
to them not even the well-defined and independent relation of employer 
and employed, but the hazy and constantly changing one of mistress to 
servant. A listener attentive to a conversation between two em- 
ployers of household labor, and we certainly all have opportunity to 
hear such conversations, would often discover a tone implying that the 
employer was abused and put upon; that she was struggling with it 
solely because she was thus serving her famUy and performing her social 
duties; that otherwise it would be a great relief to her to throw up the 
whole thing and "never have a servant in her house again." Did she 
follow this impulse she would simply yield to the trend of her times, and 
accept the system of factory production. She would be in line with the 
industrial organization of her age. Were she in line ethically, she would 
have to believe that the sacredness and beauty of family life do not con- 
sist in the processes of the separate preparation of food, but in sharing 
the corporate life of the community, and in making the family the unit 
of that life. 

The selfishness of a modern mistress, who, in her narrow social ethics, 
insists that those who minister to the comforts of her family, shall min- 
ister to it alone, that they shall not only be cehbate, but shall be cut off 
more or less from their natural social ties, excludes the best working 
people from her service. A man of dignity and ability is quite willing 
to come into a house to tune a piano. Another man of mechanical 
skill, but perfect independence, will come to clean and lay a carpet. 
These men would all resent the situation and consider it quite impossible 
if it implied the giving up of their family and social ties, and living under 
the roof of the household requiring their services. Most of the cook- 
ing and serving and cleaning of a household could be done by women 
living outside and coming into a house as a skilled workman does, hav- 



1919] A BELATED INDUSTRY 359 

ing no "personal service" relation to the employer. There is no reason 
why the woman who cleans windows in a house, should not live as full 
a domestic and social life as the man who cleans windows in an office. 
If the "servant" attitude were once eliminated from household industry, 
and the well-established one of employer and employe substituted, the 
first step would be taken toward overcoming many difficulties. 

Although this household industry survives in the midst of the factory 
system, it must, of course, constantly compete with it. To all untrained 
women seeking employment — save those with little children or invalids 
depending upon them, to whom both factory and household labor are 
impossible, and who are practically confined to the sewing trades — a 
choice is open between these two forms of labor. 

There are few women so dull that they cannot paste labels on a box, 
or do some form of factory work, few so dull that some perplexed house- 
keeper will not receive them at least for a trial into her household. 
Household labor then has to compete constantly with factory labor, and 
women seeking emplojTnent, more or less consciously compare these two 
forms of labor in point of hours, in point of permanency of employment, 
in point of wages, and in point of the advantage afforded for family and 
social hfe. Three points are easily disposed of: (1) In regard to hours 
there is no doubt that the factory has the advantage. This leaves most 
of the evenings and Sundays entirely free. The average hours of house- 
hold labor are from sLx in the morning until eight at night, with little 
difference in seasons. There is one afternoon a week, with an occasional 
evening, but Sunday is almost never wholly free. (2) In regard to 
permanency of position the advantage is found clearly on the side of the 
household employe, if she proves in any measure satisfactory to her 
employer, for she encounters much less competition. (3) In point of 
wages the household is again fairly ahead, if we consider not the money 
received but the opportunity offered for saving money. This is greater 
among household employes because they do not pay board, the clothing 
required is simpler, and the temptation to spend money in recreation is 
less frequent. The factory wages may be smaller in the average, but 
this I believe to be counterbalanced in the minds of the employes by 
the greater chance which the factory offers for increased wages. 
In many cases this position is well taken economically, for although 
the opportunity for saving may be better for the employe in the 
household than in the factory, her family saves more when she works 
in a factory and lives with them. The rent is no more when she is 



360 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [AugUSt 

at home. The amount which she pays into the family fund more than 
covers the cost of her actual food, and at night she can often contribute 
towards the family labor by helping her mother wash and sew. 

This brings us easily to the fourth point of comparison, that of the 
possibilities afforded for family life. It is well to remember that women, 
as a rule, are devoted to their families; that they want to live with their 
parents, their brothers and sisters and kinsfolk, and will sacrifice a good 
deal to accomplish this. This devotion is so universal that it is impos- 
sible to ignore it when we consider women as employes. Young un- 
married women are not detached from family claims and requirement 
as young men are, and, so far as my observation goes, are more ready 
and steady in their response to the needs of the aged parents and help- 
less members of the family. But women performing labor in households 
find peculiar difficulties in the way of enjoying family life, and are more 
or less dependent upon their employers for possibilities to see their 
relatives and friends. Curiously enough the same devotion to family 
life and quick response to its claims on the part of the employer, operates 
against the girl in household labor and places her in a unique position of 
isolation. The employer of household labor, in her zeal to preserve her 
family life intact and free from intrusion, acts inconsistently and grants 
to her cook, for instance, but once or twice a week such opportunity 
for untrammelled association with her relatives as the employer's family 
claims constantly. This devotion to the narrow conception of family 
life the men of the family also share. The New York gentleman who 
lunches at Delmonico's eats food cooked by a chef with a salary of five 
thousand dollars a year, and prepared with all modern appliances. He 
comes home hungry and with a tantaHzing memory of his lunch to a 
dinner cooked by a woman with a salary of forty dollars a month, with 
only those appliances possible in a small kitchen. The contrast between 
the lunch and dinner is great, but the aforesaid gentleman quiets his 
discontent by his reflection, that, in eating a dinner cooked under his 
own roof, he is in some occult manner contributing to the sanctity of 
family life; though his business mind knows full well that, in actual 
money, he is paying more for his badly cooked dinner than for his well- 
cooked lunch; that in submitting to such conditions he is failing to use 
the powers of organization and combination which have made his busi- 
ness so successful. 

The household employe, in addition to her industrial isolation, is also 
isolated socially. It is well to remember that the household employes, 



1919] A BELATED INDUSTRY 361 

for the better quarters of the city and suburbs, are largely drawn from 
the poorer quarters, which are nothing if not gregarious. The girl is 
bom and reared in a tenement house full of children. She goes to school 
with them and there she learns to march, to read and write in compan- 
ionship with forty others. When she is old enough to go to parties, 
those she attends are usually held in a public hall and are crowded 
with dancers. If she works in a factory, she walks home with many 
other girls, in much the same spirit as she formerly walked in school 
with them. She mingles with the young men she knows, in frank eco- 
nomic and social equality. Until she marries she remains at home with 
no special break or change in her family and social life. 

If she is employed in a household, this is not true. Suddenly all the 
conditions of her life are changed. This change may be wholesome for 
her, but it is not easy, and the thought of the savings bank does not 
cheer one much, when one is twenty. She is isolated from the people 
with whom she has been reared, with whom she has gone to school, 
and among whom she expects to live when she marries. She is natur- 
ally lonely and constrained away from them, and the "new girl" often 
seems "queer" to her employer's family. She does not care to mingle 
socially with the people in whose house she is employed, as the girl in 
the country when she "works for" a country neighbor often does, and 
she suffers horribly from loneliness. This wholesome instinctive dread 
of social isolation is so strong that, as every city intelligence ofBce can 
testify, the filling of situations is easier or more difficult just in propor- 
tion as the place offers more or less companionship. Thus, the easy 
situation to fill is always the city house with five or six employes, shad- 
ing off into the more diflScult suburban home with two, and the utterly 
impossible lonely country house. 

There are suburban employers of household labor who make heroic 
efforts to supply domestic and social life to their employes, who take the 
domestic employe to drive, arrange to have her invited out occasionally, 
who supply her with books and papers and companionship. Nothing 
could be more praiseworthy in motive, but it is seldom successful in 
actual operation. In the first place it is a forced relationship, and 
nothing in the world can be worse than a simulacrum of companionship. 
Ihe employe may have a genuine friendship for her employer and a 
pleasure in her companionship, or she may not, and the unnaturalness 
of the situation comes from the insistence that she has, merely because 
of the propinquity. I should consider myself an unpardonable snob if, 



362 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [AugUSt 

because a woman did my cooking, I should not hold myself ready to 
have her for my best friend, to drive, to read, to attend receptions with 
her, but that friendship might or might not come about, according to 
her nature and mine, just as it might or might not come about between 
me and my college colleague. On the other hand, I should consider 
myself very stupid if merely because a woman cooked my food and Kved 
in my house I should insist upon having a friendship with her, whether her 
nature and mine responded to it or not. It would be folly to force the 
companionship of myself or my family upon her when doubtless she 
would vastly prefer the companionship of her own friends and her own 
family. The unnaturahiess of the situation is brought about by the 
fact that she is practically debarred by distance and lack of leisure from 
her own natural ties, and then her employer feeling sorry, insists upon 
filling the vacancy in interests and affections by her own tastes and 
friendship. She may or may not succeed, but the employe should not 
be thus dependent upon the goodwill of her employer. That in itself is 
feudal. 

Added to all this is a social distinction which the household employe 
feels keenly against her, and in favor of the factory girls, in the minds 
of the young men of her acquaintance. A woman who has worked in 
households for twenty years told me that when she was a young and 
pretty nurse girl, the only young men who "paid her attention" were 
coachmen and unskilled laborers. The skill in the trades of her suitors 
increased as her position in the household increased in dignity. When 
she was a housekeeper, forty years old, skilled mechanics appeared, one 
of whom she married. Women seeking employment understand per- 
fectly well this feeling, quite unjustifiable, I am willing to admit, among 
mechanics, and it acts as a strong inducement toward factory labor. 

I have long ceased to apologize for the views and opinions of working 
people. I am quite sure that on the whole they are just about as wise 
and just about as foolish as the views and opinions of other people, but 
that this particularly foolish opinion of young mechanics is widely 
shared by the employing class can be easily demonstrated. The con- 
trast is further accentuated by the better social position of the factory 
girl, and the advantages provided for her in the way of lunch clubs, 
social clubs, and vacation homes, from which girls performing house- 
hold labor are practically excluded by their hours of work, their geo- 
graphical situation, and a curious feeling that they are not as interest- 
ing as factor}'- girls. 



1919] A BELATED INDUSTRY 363 

It is not the object of this paper to suggest remedies; but if the prem- 
ise in regard to the isolation of the household employe is well taken, and 
if the position can be sustained that this isolation proves the determin- 
ing factor in the situation, then certainly an effort should be made to 
remedy this, at least in its domestic and social aspects. To allow house- 
hold employes to live with their own families and among their own 
friends, as factory employes now do, would be to relegate more pro- 
duction to industrial centers administered on the factory system, and to 
secure shorter hours for that which remains to be done in the household. 

It might be possible that the employer of household labor would have 
to go back, at least during the period of transition, to the original office 
of "lady," that of "bread giving" to her household. It might be neces- 
sary for her to receive the prepared food and drink and serve it herself 
to her family and guests, but truly that is no hardship, which may be 
made a grace and a token, and there is no reason why in time the neces- 
sary serving at a table should not be done by a trained corps of women 
as fine as the Swiss men who make the table d'hote of the European 
hotel such a marvel of celerity. In the fewer cases in which the house- 
hold employes have no family ties, doubtless a remedy against social 
isolation would be the formation of residence clubs, at least in the sub- 
urbs, where the isolation is most keenly felt. Indeed the beginnings of 
these clubs are already seen in the servants' quarters at the summer 
hotels. In these residence clubs the household employe could have the 
independent life which only one's abiding place can afford. This, of 
course, presupposes a higher grade of abihty than household employes 
at present possess; on the other hand it is only by offering such possi- 
bilities that the higher grades of intelligence can be secured for house- 
hold employment. As the plan of separate clubs for household em- 
ployes will probably come first in the suburbs, where the difficulty of 
securing and holding "servants" under the present system is most 
keenly felt, so the plan of buying cooked food from an outside kitchen 
and of having more and more of the household product relegated to the 
factory will probably come from the comparatively poor people in the 
city who feel most keenly the pressure of the present system. They 
already consume a much larger proportion of canned goods and baker's 
wares and "prepared meats" than the more prosperous people do, 
because they cannot command the skill nor the time for the more tedious 
preparation of the raw material. It is comparatively easy for an em- 
ployer to manage her household industry with a cook, a laundress, a 
waitress. The difficulties really begin when the family income is so 



364 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [AugUSt 

small that but one person can be employed in the household for all 
these varied functions, and the difficulties increase and grow almost 
insurmountable as they fall altogether upon the mother of the family, 
who is living in a flat, or worse still, in a tenement house, where one 
stove and one set of utensils must be put to all sorts of uses, fit or unfit, 
making the living room of the family a horror in summer, and perfectly 
insupportable in rainy washing days in winter. Such a woman is living 
in a complicated age, totally without the differentiation of functions and 
utensils which that age demands. 

A fuller social and domestic life among household employes would be 
the first step toward securing their entrance into the larger industrial 
organizations by which the needs of a community are most successfully 
administered. Many a girl who complains of loneliness, and who relin- 
quishes her situation with that as her sole excuse, feebly tries to for- 
mulate her sense of restraint and social mal-adjustment. She some- 
times says that she "feels so unnatural all the time." And when she 
leaves her employer her reasons are often incoherent and totally incom- 
prehensible to that good lady, who naturally concludes that she wishes 
to get away from the work and back to her dances and giddy Ufe, con- 
tent to stand many hours in an unsanitary factory, if she has these. 
The charge of the employer is only a half truth. These dances may be 
the only organized form of social life which the disheartened employe is 
able to mention; but she has felt the social trend of her times, and is 
trying to say what an old English poet said five centuries ago: " For- 
sooth, brothers, fellowship is heaven, and lack of fellowship is hell; 
fellowship is life and lack of fellowship is death; and the deeds that ye 
do upon earth, it is for fellowship's sake that ye do them." 

If the girl who engages in domestic labor is doomed to a narrow social 
life, if she is isolated from her family and natural industrial associations, 
then it follows that the brightest girl will not engage in domestic labor, 
but will follow the natural trend of the times, towards factory- work 
and associated effort. 

Will women again fail in this time of reorganization, as they utterly 
failed to reorganize their half of the world's work, upon the introduc- 
tion of the factory system? Will they utterly disregard the lonely girl 
within their household, and when she demands a fuller life, and leaves 
that household, will they weakly continue to complain, rather than 
make a vigorous effort for bringing household industry into the trend of 
the times? To fail to apprehend the tendency of one's age, and to fail 
to adapt the conditions of an industry' to it is to leave that industry ill 
adjusted and belated. 



EDITORIAL 

A National Campaign for Government Savings and Investment. 

At the Twelfth Annual Meeting of the American Home Economics 
Association, Dr. Benjamin R. Andrews, as the representative of the 
Savings Divisions, U. S. Treasury Department, invited the Association 
to take a definite part in the National Thrift Movement for government 
savings and investment and the Association responded by adopting a 
resolution printed below which will serve as the basis of the Associa- 
tion's program of action, and by appointing a National Thrift Committee 
of the Association, composed of Miss Ruth Wardall, Chairman, Uni- 
versity of Iowa, Miss Helen Hollister, Pratt Institute, Brooklyn, and 
Miss Lois Irwin, formerly Home Demonstration Agent at Spartanburg, 
S. C, now of the National Savings Organization, Federal Reserve Bank, 
Richmond. 

Personal Savings and Investment for Professional Workers. Dr. 
Andrews in discussing savings and investment before the Association 
made the following suggestions: 

"Home Economics workers like all professional people need to work 
out reasonable plans for personal finance, including provision for regular 
saving and investment. Our incomes, in other words, should be used so 
as to provide an emergency fund carefully invested for use when need or 
opportunity makes a call upon it necessary or desirable. Just how can 
one best finance the unforeseen emergency? Life and other insurance is, 
of course, one method and a method always to be recommended, but 
insurance should not be the exclusive reliance. Insurance is really 
'protection,' not saving which will create that reserve fund which every 
one needs. The best advice seems to be: Carry a reasonable amount of 
life insurance to cover the financial contingencies which will arise inci- 
dent to your death, but do not ordinarily use insurance as a method to 
save for your own old age or retirement. At any rate in addition to 
insurance, build up a fund by regular saving and safe investing, which 
can be cashed in upon any emergency. Government securities are the 
best investment for a personal reserve fund — particularly the present 
issues of War Savings Stamps which pay 4 per cent compound interest, 

.^65 



366 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [AugUSt 

and the new U. S. Treasury Savings Certificates issued July 1 by the 
Treasury Department, on the same terms as War Savings Stamps, but 
in $100 and $1000 denominations. These cost $83.60 and $836, respec- 
tively in July and slightly more each month later than July, and mature 
January 1, 1924, paying 4 per cent interest compounded quarterly. 
Stamps and certificates bear interest from the date of purchase and can 
be redeemed in case the money is needed, interest at 3 per cent being 
paid till the time of redemption. There are other safe investments, of 
course, but the amateur investor is always being tempted to try some 
'safe' investment which turns out to be a fraud. The professional 
worker will find these rules worth while: 

Save regularly a part of all income received; save and invest savings 
the day money is received ; invest savings where they are safe — and U. 
S. Government securities are the world's best investment." 

The Thrift Platform of the Association: Ihe Association at its busi- 
ness meeting adopted the following resolution which provides the pro- 
gram of action to be carried out by the Thrift Committee: 

Resolved that the American Economics Association heartily endorses the 
National Thrift and Savings Movement and calls upon all home economics 
workers to participate personally in this movement by furthering the intro- 
duction of government savings societies or U. S. Thrift clubs into schools and 
especially among all groups and clubs of women and girls. We recommend 
the appointment of a National Thrift Committee of the American Home Eco- 
nomics Association to include three members who are asked to appoint a 
Home Economics Thrift Chairman in each State whose duties will include: 

Promoting the Thrift Movement among all home economics institutions 
and departments. 

Organizing thrift projects within the regular home economics program so 
that it may remain a permanent part of the home economics work. 

Establishing thrift standards for students by introducing thrift instruction 
into the courses of study, and by encouraging all students to keep accounts, 
working out with them carefully planned budgets for their school e.xpenditures. 

Providing for the sale of Thrift and W. S. S. and other Government securi- 
ties, in every school. 

Encouraging home economics workers to cooperate as speakers on thrift 
before clubs and other meetings. 



1919] COMMENT AND DISCUSSION 367 

COMMENT AND DISCUSSION 

The following letter was posted at the meeting of the American Home 
Economics Association at Blue Ridge, with the request that any who are 
willing to cooperate should sign their names. Many readers of the 
Journal should be interested to write Miss Weller. 

At the annual meeting of the American Home Economics Association last 
June, the Chairman of the Textiles Section appointed a committee to ascer- 
tain to what extent, in what direction, and by what means the teachers of 
textiles and clothing are making their work function in teaching girls to spend 
wisely for clothing and house-furnishing materials. 

WiU you not cooperate in this work by writing us what you are doing along 
the lines indicated by the following topics? 

a. Systematic keeping of accounts of clothing expenditure. 

b. The clothing budget based on the individual or family income. Do you 
have results covering a period of three or four years? 

c. Allowance given to girls in school or college for clothing. Does quaUty 
of clothing purchased show results of class instruction? 

d. Home projects. For example, selection and purchase of clothing and 
household fabrics under supervision; remaking of garments; mending and 
renovating. 

e. Comparative tests for length of service. Records should include date of 
purchase; facts regarding repairing, laundering, re-making, length of time 
worn, satisfaction in wearing. 

f. Content of course in design and textiles adapted to the problems in 
selection of clothing and house furnishing materials. To illustrate, selection 
of lace and embroidery; selection of outer and under garments; texture and 
color combinations; suitabiUty of definite materials for given purposes; choice 
of pattern for draperies; etc. 

g. Assignment of shopping problems, through cooperation with local stores, 
talks with buyers, class excursions, fabric tests at request of merchant, etc. 

It is possible you are teaching intelligent consumption of clothing through 
other means. We shall be especially interested if you have worked out a 
plan that applies to your local situation. Whatever you may be doing we 
shall be interested in it, and in the results you are getting. 

Very sincerely yours, 

Marion Weller, 
Chairman of Committee, 

University Farm, 
St. Paul, Minn. 



368 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [AugUSt 

THE QUESTION BOX 

Queslicm: In my work I have been taught that boiling eggs hardened 
the protein and made it harder to digest. This has been disputed, the 
person claiming that the medical authorities and chemists say that eggs 
should be boUed for twenty minutes to be in the easiest digestible form. 

Ansiver: The belief that raw eggs (whites) are more easily digested 
than cooked has been founded largely upon the work of Beaumont, 
(1833) who was fortunate in being able to make physiologic studies 
upon one of his patients, namely, Alexis St. Martin. An abdominal 
wound, caused by a gim shot, had healed leaving an opening through 
which the digestive processes could be studied. When raw egg-white 
was introduced into the stomach of the patient, Beaumont observed 
that it passed out more rapidly than other foods, including cooked egg- 
white. This fact was also noted by Cannon (1905), who observed that 
raw egg-white was the only protein that passed through the pylorus at 
a rate comparable to that of carbohydrates. However, later work has 
shown that although raw egg-white leaves the stomach rapidly it does 
not necessarily mean that peptic digestion has taken place. In fact, 
both Steinitz (1898) and Mendel and Lewis (1913) have found that 
raw egg-white, fed to animals, causes vomiting and diarrhea. Similar 
results were obtained by Bateman who further observed that from 30 
to 50 per cent of the raw egg-white fed was eliminated in the feces. 
Apparently raw egg-white contains an anti-proteolytic enzyme which 
inhibits its digestion in the stomach and also in the intestines. 

The digestibility of egg-white is facilitated by temperatures incident 
to coagulation. According to Bizarro (1913) the most favorable temper- 
ature of coagulation, from the standpoint of digestibility, is 80°C., 
while Frank (1911) beHeves that it lies between 70°C. and 75°C. 

The egg-yolk, on the other hand is excellently well utilized when 
either raw or cooked, although it may sometimes cause digestive dis- 
turbances when a number are taken at one time, because of the high 
fat content. 

The statement that eggs should be boiled twenty minutes to be in 
the most digestible form is without scientific foundation. In a series 
of experiments aimed to determine the effect of coagulating eggs at 
different temperatures, it was found that the egg-white which was coagu- 
lated at 80°C. was more slowly digested than that coagulated at 75°C. 

The literature on the subject is reviewed by W. G. Bateman, Jour. 
Biol. Chem., 26 (1916), p. 263. 



BOOKS AND LITERATURE 



Modern Dietelks. By Luiti Graves. 

Chicago: Modem Hospital Publishing Co., 

1917, pp. 226. S2.00. By mail of the 

Journal, $2.10. 

The long delay in the re\'iew of this book 
is unfortunate, but on some accounts it is 
perhaps particularly appropriate that atten- 
tion should be called to the book just now. 
The last two years have brought many 
skeptical administrators to a realization of 
the value of trained dietitians in hospitals 
and other institutions. This winter will 
see a largely increased need for just such a 
manual, a book which gives the foundations 
of all the phases of the dietitian's work: 
the buying and storing of food, its nutri- 
tive value and its preparation; the equip- 
ment of the kitchen and serving rooms; the 
feeding of surgical patients, of various kinds 
of medical patients, of the servants, and, 
most difficult of all, of the internes and 
nurses; tables of the composition of foods, 
many special recipes and a skeleton course 
of dietetics for nurses, all are considered in 
this comprehensive work. 

In general, the book is characterized by 
clear, direct treatment of the subject in 
hand and by great good sense. On the one 
hand, emphasis is placed on the necessity 
of e.xperience that reaches beyond the store- 
room and the diet kitchen, and on the other, 
there is constant incidental evidence that 
the author has had that e.xperience. 

Teachers and dietitians particularly in- 
terested in the scientific aspects of nutri- 
tion may perhaps feel that too little atten- 
tion is paid to that side of the subject, not 
only in the general balance of the book, but 
in the consideration of the different groups 
of foods; that the definition of food on page 
13 is inadequate in that it omits the "regu- 
lation of body processes" as one of the func- 
tions of food; that too little emphasis is 
placed on the distinction between complete 
and incomplete proteins (page 16), also 
upon the great importance of fruits and 



vegetables, especially green vegetables, and, 
above all, of milk, as foods; that the state- 
ments about vitamines as being "present in 
cereals, legumes, and meat," stimulating 
metabolism, and being "destroyed by higher 
temperatures" are so brief as to be mislead- 
ing. But no one book can contain ever>'- 
thing known on its subject. This one would 
defeat its own purpose if it did. No book 
can be quite up to date in a science which 
grows as fast as does nutrition, and this 
one, written largely as a series of papers for 
The Modern Hospilal, in 1916, is being re- 
viewed three years after the writing. These 
criticisms are made with the idea of indicat- 
ing to the young dietitian who may use the 
book this winter, the spots most likely to be 
changed in later editions. She will find in 
Miss Graves' manual inspiration and help, 
not only in the larger ideas of management 
and system, but in the details by which 
these ideas may be carried out practically, 
and in the ideals which should animate her. 
"Jlodern Dietetics" is a valuable addition 
to the literature of home economics as well 
as to that of hospital management. 
Ruth Wheeler, 
Gaucher College. 

One-Hundred-Portion War Time Recipes. 

By Bertha Nettleton. Philarlclphia: 

W. B. Lippincott Company, 191S, pp. 

43. $1.00. By mail of the Journal, $1.05. 

Many of the war time books must be laid 
aside as of little value today, but some re- 
main distinctly useful, since much of their 
material is of universal application. Of the 
latter class is this little volume of recipes 
offered by the manager of the Horace Mann 
lunch room, who is also Associate in Insti- 
tutional Administration in Teachers College. 
Reliable books containing lar;;e portion 
recipes are none too common. This one, 
especially adapted to the school luncheon, 
contains an excellent variety of attractive 
dishes, each yielding a hundred portions. 
369 



370 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [AugUSt 

PAMPHLETS RECEIVED 

Issued by the Department of the Interior, Bureau of Education : 
Advanced EdiK.ational Wtrrk Within a Government Bureau. P. G. Agnew. Higher Educa- 
tional Circular No. 14. February, 1919. 
Agricultural Education 1916-1918. C. H. Lane. Bulletin, 1918, No. 44. 
Commercial Education. Frank V. Thompson. Bulletin, 1919, No. 18. 
Educational Work oj the Boy Scouts. Lome W. Barclay. Bulletin, 1919, No. 24. 
Educational Work of tite Churches in 1916-191S. Bulletin, 1919, No. 10. 
Tht Kindergarten Curriculum. Bulletin, 1919, No. 16. 
Medical Education, 1916-18. N. P. ColweU, M.D. Bulletin, 1918, No. 46 
Vocational Education. William T. Bawden. Bulletin, 1919, No. 25. 

Issued by the Department of Commerce, Bureau of Fisheries: 
Groupers: Fishes You Should Try. With recipes for cooking them. Economic Circular No. 
44. 

Issued by the United States Depa-tment of Agriculture: 
Digestibility of Certain Miscellaneous Animal Fats. Arthur D. Holmes. Bulletin No. 613. 
Bigestibiliiy of Some By-Producl Oils. Arthur D. Hohnes. Bulletin No. 781. 
Experiments on the Digestibility of Wheat Bran in a Diet mthout Wheat Flour. Arthur D. 
Hohnes. Bulletin No. 751. 

Issued by the United States Public Health Service: 

Code of Lighting for Factories, Mills, and Other Work Places. Reprint No. 499 from the 
Public Health Reports. 

Mosquito Control about Cantonments and Shipyards. J. A. Le Prince. Reprint No. 511 
from the Public Health Reports. 

A Note on the Flight of Mosquitoes Through Horizontal Water Pipes. W. W. King. Reprint 
No. 507 from the Public Health ReporU. 

The Treatment of Sewage from Single Houses and Small Communities. Earle B. Phelps. Re- 
print No. 504 from the Public Health Reports. 

A Unified Health Service. B. S. Warren. Reprint No. 506 from the Public Health Reports. 

Waler-Borne Typhoid Fever Outbreak in Herkimer, N. Y. Theodore Horton. Reprint No. 
512 from the Public Health Reports. 

Issued by the publishers listed: 
Conditions of Women's Labor in Louisiana. Report by Women in Industjy Committee, 

Council of National Defense, New Orleans Division and Louisiana State Division. 

1919. 
Evening and Part-Time Sclwols in the Textile Industry of tht Southern States. Bulletin No. 

30, Trade and Industrial Series No. 5, Federal Board for Vocational Education. 
Fly Bulletin. Bulletin, Vol. XV, No. 3, Kansas State Board of Health. 
Guide Posts on the Road to Health. Special Report No. 3, Municipal Reference Library, 

City of New York. 
Mental Defect in a Rural County. Walter L. Treadway and Emma O. Lundberg. Depend- 
ent, Defective, and Delinquent Classes Series No. 7, Bureau Publication No. 48, U. S. 

Department of Labor, Children's Bureau. 
Proposed Plan for World-Wide Coordination of Red Cross Activities. American Red Cross, 

Washington, D. C, March 15, 1919. 
Reconstruction in the Domestic Science Kitchen. Helen C. Goodspeed. Issued by C. P. 

Gary, State Superintendent, Madison, Wis. 



1919] BIBLIOGRAPHY OF HOiEE ECONOMICS 371 

BIBLIOGRAPHY OF HOME ECONOMICS 

PERIODICAL LITERATURE 

Foods and Cookery 

Meat Extenders and Less Used Meats. Berth* Shapleigh, and Joan Rock, Teachers 
Coll Rec, Mar., 1919. 

Habit Versus Instinct in Eating. Hugh Payne Greeley, Boston Med. and Surgical Jour., 
Dec. 19, 1918. 

Lessons in Foods and Cookery with Simple Appliances. Green Leaves as Food. Anna 
Barrows, Amer. Cookery, May, 1919. 

The Value of Green Foods in the Diet. Emma Francis, Good Health, Apr. 1919. 

The Importance of Minerals in the Diet. Alzira W. SandwaU, Tlie Commonhealth, Dec. 
1918. 

A Year's Change in Food Habits. Amer. Jotir. Pub. Health, 9 (1919), No. 2. 

Effect of Food Control on the Food Supply. Harry C. Barnard, Amer. Jour. Pub. Health, 
9 (1919), No. 3. 

Sterilization of Bottles for Pasteurized Milk. Marion Hopkins and Mary L. Kelly, 
Amer. Jour. Pub. Health, 9 (1919), No. 3. 

The Milk Industry and The War. Chas. E. North, Amer. Jour. Pub. Health, 9 (1919), 
No. 4. 

Problems of Canning. Willard E. Bigelow, Amer. Jour. Pub. Healtk,9 (1919), No. 4. 

Studies on the Composition and Nutritive Value of some Sub-Tropical Fruits. N. E. 
Jaffa and F. W. Albro. Annual Report, California Avocado Association, 1917, Riverside, 
California, 1918, pp. 85-92. The fruits include avocado, guava, sapote, feijoa, and cactus 
fruits. 

A New Sugar in the Avocado. Ibid., p. 92. Commercial Constants. Ibid., pp. 92-93. 

The Avocado for the Table. Victor Hirtzler, Ibid., pp. 51-54. A considerable number 
of recipes are given, including several in which the avocado is cooked. The recipes in gen- 
eral are rather elaborate and such as would be used for hotel rather than home service. 

House Construction and Furnishings 

How to Select Spring Curtain Fabrics. Alice F. Bettina Jackson, House and Garden, 
April, 1919. 

Shades that Give Color and Light. Gertrude Campbell. House and Garden, April, 1919. 

The Playroom of the Golden Age. Katherine S. Dodge. House and Garden, April, 1919. 

Twelve Dont's for Amateur Decorators. Nancy Ashton. Bouse and Garden, April, 
1919. 

The Joy of Sleeping Out-of-Doors. Francis H. Allen. House Beautiful, April, 1919. 

Our Country Houses of Tomorrow. C. Grant LaFarge, Country Life. April, 1919. 

Cupboards in an Old House. Sarah Hood Gilpin Bright. Country Life, April, 1919. 

Building Beauty into the House. Bernhardt MuUer, Touchstone, April, 1919. 

Color in Modem Roofing. Touchstone, April, 1919. 

A New Idea in Doors. Touchstone, April, 1919. 

Bringing Colonial Architecture up to Date. Dwight James Bama, Touchstone, April, 
1919. 

An English House for an American Family. House and Garden, April, 1919. 

Pictures and Their Training. Edward S. Holloway, House Beautiful, April, 1919. 

Hand-Wrought Fittings for the Home. House Beautiful, April, 1919. 



372 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [AugUSt 

Fundamentals of Interior Decoration. Laura Shelby Lee, House Beautiful, April, 1919. 

Old Colonial Tiles. Edward B. Allen. House Beautiful, April, 1919. 

The Furniture of the Allies. Alice Van Leer Carrick, House Beautiful, April, 1919. 

The Child and Its Proper Environment. Hanna Tachan, House Beautiful, April, 1919. 

A Quality Market for Home Furnishings. Wm. Laurel Harris. Good Furniture, April, 
1919. 

Inter-Period Furnishings — Classic Revival. Edward Stratton Holloway, Good Furni- 
ture, April, 1919. 

Tendencies in Modern Decoration. Ami Rouge, House and Garden, April, 1919. 

Wall Papers for Hall Ways. House and Garden, April, 1919. 

Of First Importance in Decorating Your Home — Papers — Selected from Studio of Flora 
MacDonald. House Beautiful. April, 1919. 

Miscellaneous 

The Effects of the War in Women's Colleges. Willystine Goodsell, Teaclters Coll. Rec., 
Jan. 1919. 

The Relation of the War Program to Nursing in Civil Hospitals. M. Adelaide Nutting, 
Teachers Coll. Rec, Jan. 1919. 

The Health Office and the Enforcement of the Law. Amer. Jour, of Public Health, 9 (1919), 
No. 5. 

The Parent — A Trustee of Childhood. Social Service Revic~d\ Feb. 1919. 

For the Children of Two Continents. An Account of the International Conference on 
Child Welfare Standards. Neva R. Deardorff, Survey, May 17, 1919. 

Probable Economic Future of American Women. David Snedden, Amer. Jour. Soc, 
March, 1919. 

The R6le of Social Heredity in Education. Walter R. Smith, Amer. Jour. Soc., Mar. 
1919. 

Heading off the Slum — WTiy Housing Laws are Necessary. Albion Fellows Bacon, 
Women's Municipal League of Boston Bui., Jan. 1919. 

Some Aspects of the Housing Problem: Housing Reform and the Industrial Develop- 
ment of Boston; Housing Conditions as Affecting the Welfare of Persons of Foreign Birth or 
Descent; Housing and Health in the North End. Women's Municipal League of Boston Bui. 
Apr. 1919. 

The Health Game. A Contest in which the Government Plays. Lucy Oppen, Survey, 
Apr. 5, 1919. 

Urgent Public Health Needs of the Nation. Rupert Blue, Amer. Jour. Pub. Health, 9 
(1919), No. 2. 

Reconstruction and The Child. Josephine Baker, Ajner. Jour. Pub. Health, 9 (1919), 
No. 3. 

Industrial Lighting. C. E. Clewell, Amer. Jour. Pub. Health, 9 (1919), No. 3. 

The Manufacture of Soap and Candles: Raw materials (other than oils) and by-products. 
M. Rindl, So. African Jour. Iiuius., 1 (1918), No. 16, pp. 1487-1496. The discussion of 
soap making includes both commercial and homemade soap, the latter being the methods 
followed on Boer farms. The account of candle making deals with the subject commercially 
in South Africa. 



NEWS FROM THE FIELD 



Child Welfare Standards. A con- 
ference on child welfare standards was 
held in Washington, D. C, May 5 to 8, 
iinder the auspices of the Children's Bureau. 

At this conference, foreign countries were 
represented by experts who have had a part 
in the work done in Europe for the protec- 
tion of children during the stress of war. A 
working committee of American authorities 
invited by the Secretary of Labor, and 
members of the Bureau staff met with the 
foreign guests. 

According to the standards, drawn up by 
the conference, for the health, education, 
and work of the American child, 16 is the 
lowest age at which a child should go to 
work in any occupation. The only excep- 
tion to this is that in vacation time cliildren 
between 14 and 16 may be employed in 
agriculture and domestic service. Children 
between 7 and 18 should have nine months 
of school, either full or part time, each year. 
A child must have finished the eighth grade 
in school as well as reached his sixteenth 
birthday before he may be employed. If 
he gets a job when he is sixteen, education 
must be provided for him during the next 
two years at day time continuation schools. 

The working day of minors should never 
be longer than 8 hours. For children be- 
tween 16 and 18 the working day should be 
shorter than that for adults. Minors should 
be paid at a rate which, for full time employ- 
ment, would yield at least the "necessary 
cost of proper Hving." They should not 
be employed at night or in hazardous 
occupations. 

In order to protect mothers and babies 
the standards declare that prenatal care, 
trained attendance at childbirth, and ade- 
quate nursing and domestic assistance 
should be made available for every mother. 
The necessity of prompt and complete birth 
registration was pointed out. More health 
centers should be established, and a public 



health nurse secured for every two thousand 
of the population. 

For the school child there should be better 
school buildings, more recreation, and better 
care of health. For the adolescent in school 
or out there should be advice and instruction 
as to health needs and ample provision for 
wholesome recreation. 

The state, was held to be particularly 
responsible for the welfare of its defective, 
dependent, and delinquent children, and 
for the supervision of institutions or agencies 
caring for them. Only as a last resort, the 
standards declare, should a child be removed 
from his own home. The standards set 
forth the principles of juvenile court organ- 
ization and methods of care for the mentally 
handicapped child and the child of illegit- 
imate birth. They urge that more social 
work for children in rural parts of the coun- 
try be undertaken. The appointment of 
State child welfare commissions and fre- 
quent revision of child welfare legislation 
are recommended. 

In pursuance of the Children's Bureau's 
purpose to formulate a thoroughgoing recon- 
struction program in matters affecting the 
wellbeing of children, a series of regional 
conferences has since been held in the large 
cities of the country. 

The Home Economics Division of Iowa 
State College recently received from the 
estate of Mary F. Rausch a fund of S500 
to be known as the "Mary F, Rausch 
^lemorial Fund." The income of this fund 
will be used as an annual prize for junior 
students, awarded on the basis of ability, 
scholarly attainment, character, and inter- 
est in affairs which are worthy the attention 
of students who are preparing themselves 
for efficient service in home economics work. 
The prize this year was awarded to Frances 
Newell of Columbus Junction, Iowa. 
373 



374 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [AugUSt 

Omicron Nu. Eta chapter is preparing acquainting her with all activities and 

a directory containing the name, occupation, plans. 

and address of every alumnae member, in Gamma chapter, on May 21, initiated Miss 

order to keep in touch with former members Ethelwyn Miller and Miss Rosamond Cook, 

and to be able to communicate with them five seniors and thirteen juniors, as members 

concerning business carried on in this of the society, 

group- Notes. Dr. N. E. Goldthwaite has 

Beta chapter welcomes three juniors into returned to her home in Adams, Mass., 

active membership. A chapter letter has after a trip of nearly two and a half years in 

been written to each member of Beta alumnae the Orient. 

TENTATRi; PROGRAM OF THE AMERICAN DIETETIC ASSOCIATIOS, 
CINCrNNATI, OHIO, SEPTEMBER 8-12, 1919 

Tuesday, September 8 

9 a.m. General Session 

Courses of Instruction for the Training of Dietitians, Katherine Fisher, Teachers College, 
Columbia University 

Discussion led by Lenna Frances Cooper, Supervising Dietitian, War Department, Washing- 
ton, D. C. 

Training of Pupil Dietitians, Violet Ryley, General Organizing Dietitian, Soldiers' Civil 
Reestablishment, Toronto, Can. 

2.30 p.m. Section Meetings 

Section on Teaching — Katherine Fisher, Teachers College, Columbia University, Chairman 

Standard Curriculum for Nurses' Training Schools, Ruth Sherlow 

Section on Social Service — Blanche Joseph, Field Dietitian, Michael Reese Dispensary, 
Chicago, Chairman 

Wednesday, September 9 
9 a.m. General Session 

Hospital Cafeterias, Eleanor Wells, Teachers College, Columbia University 
Discussion led by Seale Harris 
College Feeding Problems, Emma Baker 
2.30 p.m. Section Meetings 
Section on Administration — Emma Smedley, Director School Luncheons, Philadelphia, 

Chairman 
Problems in the Administration of Government Dormitories, Olive Davis 
Section on Dietotherapy — Minnie A. Phillips, University of Iowa, Chairman 
Paper by Dr. Baumann, University of Iowa 

8 p.m General Session 

What we have Learned in Dietetics from the Army, Col. R. H. Murlin 

Food Waste, Lieut. -Col. Ernest Irons 

Food Clinics, Bertha Woods, Boston Dispensary 

Thursday, September 10 
Program furnished by the Cincinnati Hospital 

Friday, September 11 

9 a.m. Business Session 

Paper by Mary Swartz Rose, Teachers College, Columbia University 

2.30 p.m. Report of the American Home Economics Association Meeting 

Report of the Committee on Standardization of Curriculums for the Training of Dietitians 



Vol. XI. No. 9 September, 1919 

THE 

Journal of Home Economics 

For those interested in Homemaking, Institution Management, 
and Educational Work in Home Economics 

lUs.AucE P. Norton-, Biito, Keidrah E. Baldwin. B«ri««j £i,-«,f 

Editonal Board 
Mrs. Mary H. Abel C. F. La.vgwortby Ethelwvm Miller Rdth Wheeler Am- Daniels 

Ex-Officio ilembers—ED}iA N. White, President American Home Economics Association 
Elsie Leonard, Chairman Institution Economics Section 
Katherine Blunt, Chairman Science Section 
Mamie BtNCH, Chairman Extension Education Section 
Mabel Trilling, Chairman Textile Section 
Coftiiora/ws— The Officeis, Members of the Council, and Advisors 



CONTENTS 

Home Economics in the Woman's College R,ah Wheeler 375 

Outline of Courses in Household Arts, Chicago Public Schools . . Jenny H. Snow 380 

Household Arts, Public Schools, Lexington, Ky Anne Simrall 385 

Some Suggestions from the Textile Section Miriam Birdseye 388 

Fat Absorption and Decomposition in Frying 393 

CH.ANGES IN Physical and Cheiocal Constants of Fats used for Frying a Standard 

^°'-''''* Agnes Fay Morgan and Ella Ran Cozens 394 

For the Homemakee 



Home Economics and Child Welfakf, Elizahclh McCracken 

Editorial 



403 
412 

Comment and Discussion ii-t 

News from the Field 477 



The Jour-val or Hoke Economics is published monthly by the American Home Economics Association. 

VM A YEAR. FOREIGN 12.35. CANADIAN t2.20. SINGLE COPIES 25 CENTS 

HOW TO REMIT. Remittances should be sent by Check. Express Order or Postal Money Order payable to Ihe 
American Home Economics Association. Currency, unless mailed in a registered letter, is at the sender's risk. 

NOTICE. When payment is made by check no receipt will be sent unless requested. 

CHANGE IN .ADDRESS Notice of change in address should be sent Two Weeks before the date of issue on which 
the change is to take effect. The subscriber's Old Address should be clearly indicated in addition to the New Address. 

AMERICAN HOME ECONOMICS ASSOCIATION 121 1 Cathedral St., Baltimore, Md. 

The Journal oe Home Economics is on sale at John Wanamaker's, Philadelphia; The Old Comer Book Store, Boston; 

A. C. McClure's, Chicago; Baltimore News Company, Baltimore; Woodward and Lothrop, Washington 



JOURNAL OP EOUE ECONOMICS— ADVERTISEMENTS 

Bake it with Royal 
and be Sure 

Has been the motto for fifty years 
in millions of homes where good 
food is recognized as the first es- 
sential of good health and where 
pride is taken in good baking. 

ROYAL 

Baking Po^vder 

Absolutely Pure 

Made from Cream of Tartar derived from grapes 

Royal Contains No Alum— 

Leaves No Bitter Taste 

In writing advertisers, please mention Journal of Home Economics 



THE 

Journal of Home Economics 

Vol. XI SEPTEMBER, 1919 No. 9 

HOME ECONOMICS IN THE WOMAN'S COLLEGE^ 

RUTH WTTEELER 

Professor of Bome Economics, Gaucher College, Baltimore 

The hospitality and trustfulness of the South is emphasized in the 
invitation extended to me, a Southerner of less than a year's standing, 
■w'ith my harsh Pennsylvania-IUinois accent still unsoftened, to discuss 
one of the problems of the South. Of course I do not yet know any- 
thing worth while about any distinctively southern problem, but the 
problems of the woman's college have been a matter of interest to me 
ever since my four years at Vassar. And all of us are much ahke. 
Such meetings as this emphasize the likenesses. The difference in our 
problems is Just enough to be stimulating; without it we might get up 
an iron clad syllabus, meet once to ratify it, then company 'bout face, 
and go home to teach it forever after, or until grand headquarters sent 
out a new manual. 

For years we have been looking toward standardization. Publishers 
beg us to get together. They say they cannot publish books on dietet- 
ics, because no two schools mean the same thing by the title, and that 
home management is even worse. Our special apostle of standardiza- 
tion is not here — I would not dream of attempting to take up her for- 
midable cudgels — but please at this point insert a legal phrase to the effect 
that nothing herein stated is to be interpreted as decrying the need of 
standardization in our nomenclature and in our courses, because I am 
going to plead for variety in types of courses. 

' Presented at the Twelfth Annual Meeting of the American Home Economics Associa- 
tion, Blue Ridge, N. C, June, 1919. This paper was one of a group discussing Home 
Economics Problems in the South, arranged for the program of the Southern Home Eco- 
nomics Association. 

375 



376 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [September 

It may be said that there are three main types of courses in home 
economics. Here as in all classifications, there are infinite gradations 
between the types, which may be called the technical, the university, 
and the academic courses. I hope we shall always have these types; 
every one of them has at least the possibility of a brilliant future; but 
certainly the strictly academic course is the most backward. There 
are two reasons for this. First, proper soil has not been available. 
Most of the universities began their work in this subject with what 
may be called an academic course. Nobody was satisfied with it, and 
it presently developed into the more or less professional course it is now. 
This was natural, because the universities have many professional and 
semi-professional courses. The second reason why the strictly academic 
course in home economics failed to develop is that there has not been 
enough material from which to build it — there have not been enough 
structural minerals, or amino acids, not to mention vitamines. An 
academic course in a science still in embryo is of necessity thin, super- 
ficial, sciohstic; but such a course in a science enriched by enough 
information behind and under it may be in high degree valuable. The 
chemistry taught in medical schools used to be a very dilute solution, 
hated by the students and teachers alike, and this was not only because 
it was taught with no laboratory work to vitalize the facts, but also 
because there were not enough facts available. Physiological chemis- 
try was in embryo. 

Now I hold — and I am sure that, whoever else may disagree with me, 
no one in this Association will do so — I hold that home economics 
has reached a state of development which makes it possible to build 
from it a strictly academic course; that there is a place for it in the edu- 
cational system of this country; and that it will not only enrich the gen- 
eral curriculum of the academic woman's college and the general 
equipment of the students, but also be itself enriched by its use in 
this way. 

Some paragraphs back I said that I wanted to plead for variety. 
When our students leave us on graduation, they almost always pay us 
the huge comphment of reversing the cyHnder (or whatever it is you do to 
change a dictagraph to a dictaphone) . They have enjoyed their dietet- 
ics so much that they teach dietetics to high school students, or to even 
younger victims. And we do just about the same thing. We go to a 
university for special study and carry the courses back to our own in- 
stitutions. Many of us have heard the author of one of the best of dietet- 



1919] HOME ECONOMICS IN THE VVOMAN's COLLEGE 377 

ics courses bemoan the fact that this continent is dotted with places 
in each of which a replica of her course is given without any of the 
modifications necessary to fit it to its new environment. 

We spend five years or so helping with a splendid solid symmetrical 
course; we go out to spread the good work; and what a temptation it 
is to try to transplant the whole thing bodily. How irritating it is to 
find that it will not fit the new location! How inferior the new soil 
seems, lacking in depth and richness, lacking, to drop the metaphor, in 
appreciation of a really fine thing — not ourselves, of course, there is 
nothing personal in our feeling — but of our subject. An English- 
woman I know, on starting for this country, was told by her brother, 
"Now don't expect that whole continent to adapt itself to you, for it 
won't; if any adapting is to take place, you are the smaller body, and you 
will have to do it." 

The old conservative academic women's colleges have a real function 
in our national education. That home economics belongs in them is 
almost too obvious to need saying here, but let us think out the reasons. 
Most of my pleas you do not need at all. but some of your colleagues 
in pure science and the classics in the colleges and universities do need 
them. In its present stage of development the study of home economics 
may involve severe and valuable training. Time was when educators 
looked askance at all science as too useful to be cultural, and as out of 
place in any but technical schools. When so-called "pure" science had 
been received, suspicion was transferred to "applied" science. We 
have not yet passed this stage, but scientists are coming more and more 
to see that the application of science requires the most exact knowledge, 
and may involve the highest and deepest thinking. In the beginnings 
of any applied science there is danger of making the teaching of it super- 
ficial or simply practical and vocational. There is no excuse for that 
in home economics. The subject is not in an embryonic state. In 
the twenty years since the universities began to introduce it, it has de- 
veloped sufficiently to offer a broad field for choice. It can contribute 
materially to the curricula of such varied types of educational institu- 
tions as trade schools, medical colleges, graduate schools of universities, 
and academic colleges. The senior student who came to the Depart- 
ment for help in planning to take charge of her mother's house, and after 
enthusiastically noting down fifteen minutes' worth of concentrated 
essence, complacently remarked, "I always say a college girl doesn't 
need to take courses in home economics; she can work it up by herself," 



378 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [September 

was away behind the times. She can "work it up," or history, or mathe- 
matics, or English, or anything else, if she is an exceptional person; 
but home economics is not in a class by itself in this respect. 

One of the functions of education is to give the students the informa- 
tion and training, mental and cultural, that shall make them more 
intelligent and more efficient in their citizenship, and in their personal 
lives. More and more we are emphasizing citizenship in our teaching. 
The nation needs to have women take an active responsible part in its 
affairs because women and men look at many matters from a somewhat 
different angle. Women bring to problems of housing, for example, of 
child welfare and education, and of food, a different viewpoint. The 
practical result one would expect from this is not, so far, very apparent. 
According to our critics — and if we can only avoid getting too impatient 
with their inaccuracies to Hsten to them we can often learn something 
from our critics — the votes of women run so nearly parallel to those of 
men that nothing is gained by their suffrage. So far as this is true, it 
is so because, though women have a distinctive point of view, they do 
not know how to use it. They do not know how to apply to these prob- 
lems their constantly increasing knowledge of physics, chemistry, 
biology, physiology, bacteriology, mathematics, economics, and 
sociology. Home economics gathers together facts from all these 
sciences, correlates, focuses, and applies them. 

Then as to the influence of college education on the individual lives 
of women. We are told by critics that a college education increases 
women's interest and matures their ideas in every line except home 
activities and religion, that as a consequence, college women, at the end 
of their formal education, have such immature and inadequate ideas on 
these two subjects that they think neither worthy of further endeavor. 
They do not realize that the greater interest they find in other Hues of 
thought is due, not to an innate superiority of the field, not altogether 
to individual differences in interest, but chiefly to the fact that for four 
years they have sedulously cultivated their ideas along many other 
lines, while their thinking about spiritual matters and home activities 
has been left in an embryonic state. They have not reaUy thought, 
studied, grown up, along these lines at all. They can, however, develop 
their way of thinking on housing, food, and clothing problems in a sci- 
entific, cultural, and academic way. 

If home economics is to be true to its whole purpose, the development 
of the best all-round Hfe, we cannot utterly forget the spiritual side; 



1919] HOME ECONOMICS IN THE WOMAN's COLLEGE 379 

and where it is not possible to make one's own life philosophy clear, one 
can at least evidence the same respect for sincere and serious thinking 
along this line that one would show for sincere and serious thinking 
along any scientific line. 

In deciding to introduce home economics as an integral part of her 
curriculum, Goucher College among the old academic colleges has shown 
herself a pioneer, a pathfinder. If the present direction continues, 
the Department of Home Economics at Goucher will base its course on 
the physical and biological sciences and on economics, and will apply 
the facts and the methods of those sciences to the problems of its special 
field, problems of housing, of clothing, and of nutrition. It will give 
just enough practical work to vitalize and drive home the apphcation, 
and to serve as a basis for indi\-idual study of such problems, no more 
than this; not enough to give technical skill, important as this is. Such 
technical training is not a part of an academic course which in this, as 
in other lines, should lay a broad, firm foundation for later specializa- 
tion. Students who desire technical skiU will be given opportunity to 
get it outside of the class room. On the other hand, it is as impossible 
to teach home economics properly without laboratory work as to teach 
chemistry or bacteriology in that way. In all these lines it has been 
tried. The colleges should not train technical chemists, dietitians, 
cooks, dressmakers, nor decorators. On the other hand, they are quite 
as far wrong if they teach theory without practice, if they are afraid of 
the factors that vitalize and at the same time secure the theory, — if 
they entertain the fear expressed by one visitor, "What is that long 
table in your first floor laboratory? You don't have cooking, do you?" 
The courses in the woman's college will differ from that in the univer- 
sity as the latter differs from the courses in the technical school in that 
a smaller proportion of time will be given to the getting of technique, 
and a greater to work in related and marginal subjects. It will aim 
first to enrich the course of the general student and only secondarily 
to serve those students who major in home economics. A survey course 
will be ofi'ered without prerequisites which will give the foundations of 
home economics through lectures, reference work, and discussions; em- 
phasizing the fact that the object of all home economics is to further 
the welfare of the family, whether it attacks problems of international 
and municipal housekeeping, or those of the individual or of the family 
group. It will include a brief study of the family and its physical 
environment, budgets for the family and for the college girl, and the 



380 THE JOURNAL OF HOifE ECONOMICS [September 

principles underlying the proper selection and use of houses, clothing, and 
food. Without majoring in home economics, any girl who has the nec- 
essary prerequisite of a year of college chemistry may take the first 
year of food study; one who has the foundation in chemistry and eco- 
nomics may take the work in textiles and clothing. The courses on 
the house also may be isolated. This is true theoretically or actually, 
in many university courses, but the chief aim of the course in a woman's 
college should be the enrichment of the general curriculum, especially 
at first; home economics should not replace the major subjects now 
chosen, but should supplement them. 

The problems of the home ought to be every woman's first interest, 
whether she attacks them in one individual home or as problems of 
municipal or of international housekeeping. Whether she is a home- 
maker, a scientist, a philosopher or a diplomat, these problems, in one 
phase or another, need, and will reward, her greatest powers of mind 
and spirit. 



OUTLINE OF COURSES IN HOUSEHOLD ARTS, CHICAGO 
PUBLIC SCHOOLS 

JENNY H. SNOW, Supcroisor 

Cooking 

From the standpoint of the meal. 

Grade 6 

Laboratory Work Related Work 

Learning eqiu'pment and method Discussion of personal equipment. 

of measuring. 
Individual dishes that may be Discussion of breakfasts. What 
used for breakfast. children eat for breakfast. What 

may be eaten for breakfast. 
Beverages — Cocoa, malted milk. Relative values. Which best for 

postum, tea, cofi'ee. children. 

Fruits — Fresh, dried. Composition. Why cooked. Meth- 

ods of cooking. 



1919] 



HOUSEHOLD ARTS, CHICAGO PUBLIC SCHOOLS 



381 



Cereals — Rice, wheat, oats, corn. 



Planning and serving breakfasts. 



Individual dishes that may be 

used for lunch. 
White sauce on toast. 
Vegetables — Baked, boiled, 

steamed, creamed. 



Cream soups. 

Planning and serving lunch. 



Milk — Cottage cheese, junket, 
butter. 



Luncheon dishes — Macaroni, 
spaghetti, rice and cheese. 

Eggs — Various ways of cooking, 
combining with milk in baked 
custard. 



Planning and serving simple 
luncheons. 



Economic and food value. Testing 
with iodine for starch. Differ- 
ence between boiling and steam- 
ing. 

Simple meals, combining the dishes 
of preceding lessons. Work out 
cost of same. Setting table, cook- 
ing, serving as class work. 

Discussion of luncheons. 

Thickening power of flour. 

Classification of vegetables. Study 
of composition and structure. 
Eood value of vegetables. Rea- 
sons for cooking. Suitable sea- 
sons for each, relative cost, 8 or 
10 vegetables to be used. 

Food value. Place in the diet. 

Selection to be made by girls from 
previous work. Buying suppUes, 
cooking in large amounts. Set- 
ting table and serving simple 
meals to the class. 

Eood values and digestibility of 
milk. Place in diet. Care by 
producer, retailer, and in home. 
SteriHzing and pasteurizing. Ways 
of using milk and cheese. 

Eood value of dishes. Combination 
of starch and protein in cooking, 
principles involved. 

Composition and food value. Test 
for fresh eggs. Commercial 
methods of keeping them. Thick- 
ening power of eggs. Cooking 
temperature. 

Cost of luncheons. 



382 



THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS 



[September 



Batters and Doughs — Popovers, 
muffins, drop biscuits, corn 
bread, ginger bread, griddle 
cakes, rolled biscuits, plain 
cake. 

Bread — Preparation lesson. 
Yeast experiments, making of 
bread. 



Desserts — Corn starch pudding, 
gelatin. 



Planning and serving luncheons. 

Grades 
Preservation of food — Canning 
vegetables and fruits, making 
jelly, pickling sweet and sour. 



Vegetables — Fresh and dried, 
baked beans, escalloped, re- 
view of white sauce, buttered 
crumbs. 

Salads and salad dressings. 



Review Batters and Doughs, in- 
cluding cakes and cookies. 
Syrups and icings. 

Serving luncheons. 

Individual dishes that may be 
used for dinner. 



Flour, various kinds and relative 
values. Washing, stretching and 
baking gluten. Difference be- 
tween batters and doughs. 

Stages in baking, oven tests. Ex- 
periments to show growth and 
best temperature for yeast. 
Methods of making bread. Com- 
paring home versus baker's bread 
as to cost and value. 

Thickening power of corn starch. 
Comparison with flour. Substi- 
tuting one for the other. Source, 
food value, uses of starch and 
gelatin. 

Serving a luncheon to guests. 

7 and 8 

Study of bacteria, yeast and moulds. 
Use of sugar in canning. Other 
methods of preserving. Com- 
parative study of fresh and dried 
fruits and vegetables. 

Review method of cooking and food 
value. 



Varieties, food values. Place in 

diet. Requisites for attractive 
and palatable salads. 

Study of baking powder and soda. 



Food 



Plan- 



Study of sugar, corn syrup, 
values. Place in diet. 

Study of Langworthy chart, 
ning meals. 

Buying and cooking in large quanti- 
ties and serving. 

Discussion of dinner. 



1919] 



HOUSEHOLD ARTS, CHICAGO PUBLIC SCHOOLS 



383 



Meat, soup stock, various meth- 
ods of cooking meats, use of 
left-overs. 

Fish, fresh and salt. Use of 
left-overs, croquettes, balls, 
salads. 

Bread, baking powder, yeast. 

Desserts, puddings, soft cus- 
tards, floating island, tapioca 
and prune puddings, fruit 
rolls, bread and other pud- 
dings, pastry, tarts, pies. 



Frozen mixtures, 
cream. 



sherbet, ice 



Planning dinners, care of dining 

room. 
Serving dinners, cooking in large 

amounts. 



Food values. Digestibility. Cost. 

Various cuts. Uses of each. Com- 
parative food value and cost of 
tough and tender cuts. 

Digestibility and cost of fish vs. 
meat. Tests for fresh fish. Best 
varieties in this locaKty. 

Each girl to have practice in making 
large loaf of bread. 

Large corn starch pudding and 
baked custard to be made in re- 
view. Place of desserts in diet. 
Kind depending on rest of menu. 
Digestibility and food values of 
pastry. 

Food value and place in diet. Prin- 
ciples and rules for freezing. Com- 
parative cost and value of home 
vs. commercial ice cream. 



Dinner served to guests. 



Sewing 



Grade 6 



APPLIED PROCESSES 

Basting, hemming, overhanding, overcasting, running, gathering, back- 
stitching, combination stitch, chain stitch, feather stitch, machine 
practice for straight stitching, plain seam, French seam, putting 
on a band. 

Stocking darning, mending, knitting or crocheting. 

SUGGESTED PROJECTS 

Towel, ovencloth, protection cloth, sewing apron without band, runner, 

holder, square or round. 
Book cover, broom cover, bag (sewing, knitting, vegetable, laundry, 

slipper, etc.) 



384 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [September 

Machine Practice — Holders, wall pocket, silver case, scissor case, pencil 

case. 
Half sleeves (elastic at top and bottom, band at bottom, plain hem). 
Apron (cooking), cap (cooking). 

Crochet — Scarf, turban, cap, hug-me-tight, mat, or edging. 
Knit — Wash cloth, squares for afghan. 
Gymnasium — Bloomers. 

TOPICS FOR STUDY 

Warp, woof, selvedge, weaving. 

Art — Space relation in construction. 

Study of line. 

Simple pattern construction — Placing, cutting. 

Grade 7 

APPLIED PROCESSES 

Blanket stitch, button-hole stitch, hemstitching, cross-stitch, cutting a 
bias-joining, sewing on lace, joining embroidery, facings (bias), 
fiat fell seam, lapped seam, overhanded seam, plackets, hemmed, 
one-piece. 

Sewing on buttons and fasteners. 

Stocking darning, mending, patching, knitting or crocheting. 

SUGGESTED PROJECTS 

Night dress (kimono), kimono. 
Cuffs — Collar. 

Undergarments — Chemise, skirt, bloomers, corset cover, underwaist. 
Middy, apron, simple dress skirt, fancy apron, serving apron. 
Crochet — Shppers, cap, scarf. 

Knitting — Scarf, bag, wristlets, runner, table cover, mats, pillow tops, 
bag. 

TOPICS FOR STUDY 

Study of suitable materials, shrinkage of material. 
Art — Study of decoration, study of appropriate laces, width, texture, 
etc. Study of commercial patterns used. 



1919] HOUSEHOLD ARTS, LEXINGTON PUBLIC SCHOOLS 385 

Grade 8 

APPLIED PROCESSES 

Trimmings — Bias, piping, bands, collar, cuffs. 
Mending — Knitting or crocheting. 

SUGGESTED PROJECTS 

Middy or smock, blouse, dress skirt, dress of simple construction, re- 
modeled garments. 
Undergarments — Princess sHp, drawers or Knickerbockers. 
Bags, table covers, rugs, mats, pillow tops (applied decoration or woven). 
Select at least one project having a set-in sleeve. 

TOPICS POR STUDY 

Study of materials, care of clothing, simple removal of stains, simple 

tests for fiber. 
Art — Horizontal and vertical lines or bands, commercial patterns, 

simple alterations. 



HOUSEHOLD ARTS IN THE PUBLIC SCHOOLS, LEXINGTON, 
KENTUCKY 

AJSTNE siMR.ALL, Supervisor 

The Lexington Schools are unusually fortunate in having a Superin- 
tendent' of the City Schools and a Board of Education whose interest, 
inspiration, and help have enlisted the cooperation of pupils, teachers, 
and parents, and made possible the rapid progress in Household Arts 
that we have been able to make. 

So many of our children leave school at the end of the sixth grade 
that we have tried to help as large a group as possible, and in order to 
do this we have offered the work each year in a grade lower than it was 
given in the preceding year. 

We have 1§ hour periods once a week in the third, fourth, fifth, and 
sixth grades; 2 hours once a week in the seventh, eighth, and ninth 
grades (Junior High School); and 100 minutes a day in the eleventh 
grade (Senior High School). 

'Mr. M. A. Cassidy. 



386 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [September 

Two years ago we introduced machine work in the sixth grade. This 
year in the third grade we have accompUshed the same amount of prac- 
tical work, in our short school term, that the Freshman High School 
girls accomplished four years ago, and, in two or three lessons, the same 
amount of work that was accomplished by the sixth grade year before 
last. Such a result indicates that we have not given girls a chance 
heretofore, or allowed them an opportunity to do the work in which 
they are so much interested. 

In the very first lesson the children began to learn how to run the ma- 
cliine and how to thread it. We talked over the materials and utensils 
that would be needed and they decided to make a petticoat, because 
straight seams would be easier to learn on. In the next lesson they 
basted their skirts and most of them stitched them. 

During these first few lessons I gave them a good deal of assistance; in 
fact, I stood by the machine and kept one foot on the treadle and helped 
them keep their work straight, to give them confidence. By the time 
they were ready for the hem and placket, they could go to the machine 
alone, thread it, stitch straight, and turn edges as well as anybody. 
All of them did not get it just right the first time, but we had our tension 
loose enough so that ripping it out was not too much of a task, and we 
decided in the beginning that anytliing worth doing was worth doing 
well. 

By the time they had finished their skirts, they had acquired suffi- 
cient speed to make a night gown in much shorter time. One girl m.ade 
it in one lesson, the majority in two, and a few spent three lessons on 
it. Between one third and one half the class made either bloomers or 
drawers. In the fall these girls will make dress and bloomers to match. 
We have made dress and petticoat in the fourth grade with no previous 
work. 

This year, of course, the garments will be made better and in shorter 
time. The surprising part has been that the third grade group work 
better and are, if possible, more interested than the fourth grade. Our 
handwork has been the necessary basting, gathering, sewing on buttons, 
and making button-holes for the completion of the garment, and this 
has been so planned that the children may be able to do this when 
unable to get to a machine. 

The equipment has been far from ideal in most of the schools. Some- 
times the work has been done in school rooms with two machines, while 
the classes have had an enrollment of 15 to 40. In the large classes 



1919] HOUSEHOLD ARTS, LEXINGTON PUBLIC SCHOOLS 387 

we spent some time after school hours, but this could never be for very 
long, as my time had to be divided between so many schools ; but all the 
work was done in the school building under supervision. Each girl has 
promised to make at least one garment alone during the summer and 
bring it in the fall for inspection. Quite a number have been promised 
machines by their fathers. 

This year the children made their cooking outfits and an undergarment 
in the fifth grade, but this fall we hope to have this done in the fourth 
grade after the dress and bloomers have been completed, and we plan 
to begin our food work in the fifth grade instead of the sixth. All our 
food work is given with the meal as a basis, and in the sixth grade we 
begin with planning a simple breakfast, luncheon, and supper, and then 
prepare and ser\'e dishes suitable for these meals. Several times dur- 
ing the term, the class prepare and serve meals. 

In Junior High School the pupils have some choice, but we try to 
see that they get an equal amount of time in clothing and in food work. 
Our work in home management and laundry is given in connection 
with the food work, and the clothing budget is given with clothing 
work. Because of limited space and equipment we have not been able 
to develop the work that we hope to give when we get our new building. 

Year before last, with Miss Sweeney at the head of the Home Eco- 
nomics Department of the University of Kentucky, part of our Senior High 
School work was given in the University Practice House. Last year, 
while Miss Sweeney was in France, the acting head did not think this 
was desirable; hence all of our work was limited to our school labora- 
tories. We used the "Ellis Method of Household Accounting" and 
planned our food work on the basis of the families studied. More 
emphasis than before was placed on dietetic work and on the selection 
and cost of food, and the time necessary for its preparation. The cloth- 
ing work included the clothing budget, cleaning, dyeing, laundering, 
repairing, renovating, and remaking garments. 

The girls were so interested that nearly every girl in Senior High 
School that could arrange her schedule, was registered in our depart- 
ment for an elective course and many took every course that was offered. 
Our household arts work receives the same credit that any other sub- 
ject receives, and the year of Junior work is compulsor\^ 



388 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [September 

SOME SUGGESTIONS FROM THE TEXTILE SECTION 

MIRIAM BIRDSEYE 
Chairman, Committee on Standardization 0} Textile Fabrics 

At the recent annual meeting of the American Home Economics 
Association at Blue Ridge, North Carolina, the Textile Section pro- 
posed and secured the adoption of the two important resolutions quoted 
below: 

Whereas, We as home economics teachers realize that women form the 
bulk of retail purchasers of textile fabrics, and whereas we beheve that in the 
interests of efhcient homemaking and of individual and national thrift they 
should be trained to select such fabrics with discrimination and to study 
expenditures for clothing in relation to income; therefore be it 

Resolved, That this Association urge all teachers of clothing in elementary 
and high schools, vocational schools, normal schools, and colleges, and all 
home economics extension staffs to feature the selection of textile fabrics and 
the clothing budget in their courses of instruction during the coming year; 
and further, that it request the active cooperation of the General Federation 
of Women's Clubs and of women's magazines and farm journals in bringing 
these matters to the attention of American women and girls. 

And Whereas, We beheve that a large percentage of American women are 
ready today to create and maintain a market for textile fabrics conforming 
to reasonable standards, and know that we can readily reach these women 
and others through the various types of home economics teaching in which 
our members are engaged; be it 

Resolved, That this Association invite the cooperation of associations of 
manufacturers, jobbers, and retailers, in determining such standards, and in 
putting on the market a limited number of standardized fabrics of various 
grades on which is placed some identifying symbol to signify such standardi- 
zation. 

The first resolution grew out of reports made by two committees 
appointed the previous year to consider respectively (1) the extent to 
which courses in textiles and clothing in high schools, normal schools, 
and colleges were being used to teach girls to buy wisely clothing and 
household furnishing materials, (2) the content of household arts courses 
in graded and high schools. Both of these reports indicated that much 
more time and attention should be devoted to the clothing budget and 
to clothing selection than is being given at the present time in the 
majority of schools. 



1919] SUGGESTIONS FROM THE TEXTILE SECTION 389 

It seems reasonable to suppose that in household arts courses the 
study of textiles is undertaken not primarily for its historical, economic, 
or aesthetic interest, but chiefly for the purpose of teaching the stu- 
dents how to secure, with the part of their income that may legiti- 
mately be expended for clothing and household textiles, a greater 
amount of real satisfaction than would be possible without the under- 
standing of needs and values gained from the course. To fail to use 
textile work to develop such power in the student is to be like a gar- 
dener so absorbed in weeding and watering that he neglects to pluck 
the fruit which is the goal of all his effort. 

The first resolution, with its emphasis upon clothing selection and the 
clothing budget, is a peculiarly timely one. Never before has there 
been such a year for the teaching of clothing. The stage is set with a 
magnificent disregard of expense that will never, let us hope, be repeated. 
It is only twelve months since, in a war crisis, the government was 
calling upon people everj-where to give their thought and time to cloth- 
ing conservation, and women who had never made over a garment sat 
at the feet of their more experienced neighbors or of extension teachers 
and tasted the moral and economic reward that comes from making a 
promising cast-off make good its promise. Women will remember 
that sensation all the longer because the high price of ready-made 
clothing makes sensible remodeling financially more profitable than 
ever before. In contrast many women are buying more lavishly than 
they have ever done. War profits and war wages burn in the pockets 
of men and their families and of the thousands of young women in cler- 
ical and industrial positions who are receiving real money for almost the 
first time in their lives. The advance in the standard of living is marked 
more by the way people dress than by any other symptom. Even 
the most prudent are replenishing their wardrobes after two years of 
war self-denial; and the unprecedented rush of buying is sending prices 
sky-rocketing with no prospect of an immediate drop. In many fami- 
lies incomes have not risen to keep pace with rising living costs, and 
women are asking guidance in making the clothing allowance accom- 
plish the well-nigh impossible. Because of the scarcity and high cost 
of raw material, qualities in many lines have been reduced and fabrics 
and garments purchased at high prices have a tendency to fall to pieces 
on our very backs in a way that makes us feel that some kind of cloth- 
ing insurance would be a profitable investment. 

Under these unusual and often contradictory conditions, the teacher 
of clothing has the opportunity to become a leader and guide just as the 



390 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [September 

teacher of foods was leader and guide during the war emergency. All 
that is needed is the vision, with the skill and determination to make the 
vision come true. This is no time for theorizing or for harking back 
to the past, except as the past has lessons for today. The teacher of 
textiles and clothing should take counsel with her students and their 
mothers and with other thoughtful women in her town as to the prob- 
lems they are facing, and should shape her course of study to give the 
help that is needed. Only close contact with the home and its problems 
will enable her to make her teaching fit the times. 

"Standardization of textiles," as outlined in the second resolution, 
i.e., putting on the market certain lines of fabrics in wool, cotton, silk 
and linen guaranteed by associations of manufacturers as having passed 
certain standard tests for durability and other quaUties, and privileged 
to bear a s>Tnbol devised by the Association to signify such standardiza- 
tion, might perhap? be likened to a device for taking out clothing insur- 
ance. As reliable insurance benefits all parties concerned — the insured, 
the company, and the agent — so this standardization scheme should be 
made to work for the mutual benefit of consumer, manufacturer, and 
merchant. In these days of uncertainty intelligent women are likely to 
be willing to pay well for a fabric guaranteed to have been prepared 
with maximum knowledge and skill for the purpose it is intended to 
serve. It was with this thought, and with the knowledge that through 
our various fields of teaching — the schools, the extension field, women's 
clubs, and women's publications — we can bring an idea quickly to the 
attention of thousands of women that the second resolution was proposed. 
It was anticipated, however, that if it proved feasible to bring about 
some such standardization, the thing could not be done in a moment, 
but must be accomplished through a sane and constructive movement 
that would begin modestly and gather force through the years. 

For this reason the second resolution cannot be commented upon 
at the present time with the same definiteness as can the first. A 
Central Committee on Standardization of Textile Fabrics has been 
appointed: Miriam Birdseye, States Relations Service, United States 
Department of Agriculture, Chairman; Mrs. Mary Schenck Woolman, 
Boston, Massachusetts; Mrs. Ellen B. McGowan, Teachers College; 
Zella E. Bigelow, Federal Board for Vocational Education; Florence 
Winchell, The Lincoln School, New York City; Mabel Trilling, Uni- 
versity of Chicago (Chairman, Textile Section, A. H. E. A.). 

The chairrAan intends also to appoint an advisory committee with at 
least one representative from each state, who will cooperate in her own 



1919] SUGGESTIONS FROM THE TEXTILE SECTION 391 

locality by carrying out specific suggestions made by the Central Com- 
mittee. It is thus hoped to secure the help and advice of a large number 
of well trained textile women, although the Central Committee must 
of necessity be a small body whose members can reasonably hope to get 
together at intervals. 

The Central Committee has already begun a study of the textile 
market. As was anticipated, the situation is a compUcated one. Some 
of the elements seem to be as follows: an unprecedented labor turn-over 
resulting in irresponsibility and temporary inefficiency on the part of 
many employees in the textile and garment trades; a tremendous volume 
of buying by consumers, resulting in competition among retailers for the 
output of factories scarcely able to keep up with domestic orders; large 
foreign demands on American markets; high prices of certain raw ma- 
terials; the dye situation not as yet entirely resolved. All these con- 
ditions are agitating the market, which resembles nothing so much as 
a boiling, seething caldron. 

This probably means that no work on standardization on a large 
scale is in order until conditions have somewhat steadied themselves 
and certain preliminary work has been done. The committee hopes to 
report in coming numbers of the Journal the progress it makes in its 
investigations. 

In the meantime it would like to suggest that it is quite evident our 
best route is through the consumer and the retailer to the manufacturer. 
Apparently the first steps should be to influence the girl and the woman 
who spend to regulate their purchases of clothing by a simple budget 
system, to teach them to consider the qualities they should demand 
in fabrics for certain uses, and to give them the habit not only of making 
the usual simple textile tests but of recognizing and patronizing such 
lines of fabrics carried by local stores or manufactured in local mills as 
have already been standardized to a certain degree by their producers.' 

In the store where quality is a watch word, there will be found certain 
lines of cottons, silks, and woolen goods that have been handled for 
years and have given universal satisfaction. An experienced salesman 
or buyer of the department can speak with authority about such goods. 
For example, in such a store one can still find silks, selling at nearly 
double their price of two years ago, it is true, but of the original excel- 
lent quality, which if made up into petticoats will outlast any three of 

•In this connection see "Teaching the Clothing Budget." by Janet G. Cation, Jour. 
Home Econ., December, 1918, and "Textile Lessons for Homemakers," by Grace G. Denny, 
Jour. Home Econ., June, 1919. 



392 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [September 

the "bargains" in silk petticoats displayed by the same store at various 
sales. The line of colors will not be as complete as in some of the novelty 
Hnes but the wearing quality and the style are there. 

The same thing is true of many cotton materials, sold by name and 
still true to the standard maintained for many years, although the 
price has risen. 

Every girl and every girl's mother should learn what these lines of 
goods are, becoming familiar with the name of the maker as well as 
with the trade name, and listing these fabrics under the purpose for 
which they are best fitted. The names in such lists will differ in dif- 
ferent parts of the country, according to the source of supply, but every 
reliable store can be counted upon to give interested assistance in mak- 
ing out such a Hst. In this connection the clothing instructor should 
cultivate the acquaintance of the merchandizing manager, and should 
secure from him an introduction to his buyers. It need not be added 
that any work with retail stores should be undertaken in a spirit of the 
fullest cooperation, and any studies made should have a thoroughly 
constructive object. 

Among fabrics for which standardization might be considered are 
cottons for underwear; silks for underskirts, tailored shirt waists, and 
dresses; wool and cotton goods for school dresses, and cottons for chil- 
dren's play clothes. The chairman of this committee will be glad to 
receive copies of lists representing class judgment and class tests on 
such fabrics, especially when the tests include data regarding actual 
wearing quality, as, for example, date of purchase, use, kind of wear, 
method and frequency of laundering, and length of service. Cotton 
and silk stockings might well be included in such practical tests, and 
incidentally, interesting experiments might be planned to show the 
effect of careful and careless laundering on the life of such fabrics. The 
value of such a Ust will be greatly augmented if it is supplemented by 
a list of uses for which standardized fabrics are not locally procurable, 
and for which in the judgment of the class some standard fabric should 
be provided. 

The committee on standardization hopes to contribute from time to 
time or to secure for publication in the Journal articles of interest in 
connection with the two resolutions quoted at the beginning of this 
paper. It will welcome correspondence or suggestions from teachers or ' 
from homemakers interested in these subjects. 



1919] FAT ABSOEPTION IN FRYING 393 

FAT ABSORPTION AND DECOMPOSITION IN FRYING 

Three papers dealing with absorption and decomposition of fat in 
frying were presented at the meeting of the American Home Economics 
Association at Blue Ridge. One by Agnes Fay Morgan and Ella Rau 
Cozens, is pubUshed in this issue. The others, by Sybil Woodruff and 
Katharine Blunt, and by Elizabeth Sprague A,vill appear later. Dr. 
Morgan's and Miss Woodruff's papers both give figures on fat absorp- 
tion and all three include results on fat decomposition. Dr. Morgan 
notes the differences in a number of the fat constants between the origi- 
nal fat and that left in the pan after frying. Miss Woodruff's gives 
changes in a smaller number of constants — iodine number, acidity, and 
relative quantity of reducing substances, such as acrolein, — both for 
the fat left in the pan and for that extracted from the fried foods. Miss 
Sprague reports the temperatures at which acrolein is given off from the 
fats. Thus the decomposition of the fat is observed from three dif- 
ferent angles. 

In considering parts of these papers, the less chemically minded 
readers of the Journal will be glad to be reminded of the significance 
of some of the fat constants discussed. Comment is hardly necessary 
on the acidity, the very small amount of free acid in the fat. The 
slight increase in this during frying is probably due to very slight hy- 
drolysis of the glycerides, though it might also come from other kinds 
of splitting. The figures for expressing acidity used by Morgan and 
Cozens — milligrams of KOH used to neutraUze 1 gram of the fat — may 
be changed approximately to percentage of acidity by dividing by 2. 
(See Sherman's Organic Analysis p. 147, or Leach p. 500.) 

The iodine number is a measure of the unsaturated glycerides present, 
olein, linolein, etc. Decrease in this constant therefore means satura- 
tion of some of these double bonds, or spUtting of the molecules at 
these bonds, and is probably due to oxidation. 

The significance of the slight decrease in refractive index is less clear. 
It may be due to some splitting of these molecules or to removal of 
double bonds. Direct addition of oxygen, on the other hand, without 
splitting, seems usually to raise the refractive index. 

The Journal is aware that other workers have material on fat ab- 
sorption and decomposition and therefore hopes that the publication 
of these three papers may lead to discussion and presentation of other 
data. 



394 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [September 

The chemical side of experimental cookery, illustrated by these 
papers, is one of the Unes it is desirable to further by the cooperative 
research discussed in the Science Section of the A. H. E. A. 

Katharine Blunt, 
Chairman, Science Section. 



CHANGES IN PHYSICAL AND CHEMICAL CONSTANTS OF 
FATS USED FOR FRYING A STANDARD DOUGH 

AGNES FAY MORGAN AND ELLA RAU COZENS 

University of California, Berkeley 

The double problem of the conditions governing the absorption of 
fat by fried foods and of the effect upon fats of their use in frying has 
so far scarcely been attacked. The impression which has long pre- 
vailed that considerable hydrolysis occurs in fats which have been 
heated to a high temperature has not been well grounded in experimental 
data, nor has any special effort been put forth to disprove what has 
been for some time recognized as at least an exaggeration. Moreover, 
the differences in physical and chemical properties of fats which have 
been merely heated, and those which while hot have been used for fry- 
ing foods have not been sufficiently studied to warrant any generaliza- 
tions including both classes. 

The work of Mary McKee' upon the absorption of fat in frying dough- 
nuts of varied composition was apparently the first attempt to fLx cer- 
tain conditions while varying others, in order to discover the factors 
which govern the amount of absorption of fat in frying food. The 
number of variables in this problem is relatively small, and the discovery 
of the governing factors should be therefore relatively easy. 

The variables are (1) nature, both physical and chemical, of the 
fried food; (2) physical and chemical characters of the fat; (3) tempera- 
ture of frying; (4) length of time of frying. The maintenance of suit- 
able control experiments in which all conditions but that to be tested 
are reproduced is, of course, indispensable. 

Under the first of the variables should be included particularly the 
content of fat, water, protein, sugar, salt, starch; the shape, surface ex- 
posed, weight, density, of the food used for frying. 

'McKee, M. C, Fat Absorption in Frying Doughnuts. Jour. Home Econ., 10 (191S), 
pp. 18-20. 



1919] CHA>yGES IN FATS USED FOR FRYING DOXTGH 395 

Under the second should be included the usually determined physi- 
cal and chemical constants of fats, particularly the iodine number, 
acidity, melting point, index of refraction. Reichert-Meissl and saponi- 
fication numbers. 

The temperature of the fat used in a single set of frying experiments 
should be maintained carefully at a given value, and the length of time 
of frying each sample of food should be either fLxed or varied as the 
experiment requires. 

It is evident that of all these changeable conditions those relating to 
the nature of the food fried are most apt to produce definite effects upon 
the amount of fat absorbed. It is possible that fat absorption under 
these conditions is not unlike the imbibition of water by colloids, and 
that the proportion of water and molecular solutions of salt or sugar, as 
well as of fat, and colloidal substances such as gluten or starch, may 
govern the permeability of the mixture by the hot fat. 

It has long been known by practical cooks that fat of too low tempera- 
ture will be absorbed in an undesirable manner, if not undesirable 
amount, by food mixtures fried therein. This effect may, of course, 
be due to the absence of the immediate surface hardening which hot 
fat produces, and to the accompanying change in water and solution 
content of the outer layer of the food. 

In the study here reported the character of the food fried, the tem- 
perature and time of frying were kept constant, the nature of the fat 
only being varied. Moreover certain physical and chemical constants 
of the fats were determined before and after frying, as well as before 
and after simple heating in some cases. It was hoped that any selec- 
tive absorption of certain glycerides might thus be detected. 

Fulmer and Manchester^ reported certain changes particularly in 
the iodine number, refractive index, and free fatty acids, of cottonseed 
oil heated to 220°C, and noted that these changes were dependent 
upon the time, as well as temperature of heating. Below 220° they 
discovered no increase in free fatty acids, but above that temperature 
the acidity increased rapidly. 

Blunt and Feeney' in their study of smoking temperatures found 
that fat which had been used in cooking had both a lower smoking 
point and a higher acidity than fresh fat. 

'Fulmer and Manchester, Jour. Amer. Client. Soc, 30 (1908), p. 1477. 
' Blunt, K. and Feeney, C, Jour. Home Econ., 7 (1915), pp. 535-541. 



396 



THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS 



[September 



Masters and Smith^ determined the usual physical and chemical 
constants in fresh cottonseed oil and butter and in samples extracted 
from pastry baked in an oven maintained at 200°C. The iodine values 
showed a decrease, the acetyl value and refractive index an increase, 
and the acidity a slight increase. The authors conclude that the first 
change in heated fats may be the hydroxylation of the unsaturated 
molecule, a change identical with that observed in the blowing of oils. 
The oxidation is apparently measurable only when the fat is considerably 
overcooked, or used in very thin pastries with large surface exposure. 

I. ABSORPTION OF VARIOUS FATS BY A STANDARD DOUGH 

/. The food used as standard for frymg 

In the present study a standard doughnut dough made according to 
the following recipe was used throughout all experiments. 



MATERIALS 



Butter 

Egg 

Sugar 

Baking powder 

Salt 

Flour 

Milk (evaporated milk and water 1:1.) 



6 


5 tbsp 


11 


3 tbsp 


50 


iC. 


4 


1 tsp. 


1 


itsp. 


148 


Uc. 


57 


ic. 



The doughnuts made from this dough were rolled out to a uniform 
thickness of one-half inch, and cut in every case with the same cutter, 
two and one-half inches in outside diameter. 

Z. Time and temperature of fat used in frying 

Each fat was used for frying at 205°C. and 210°C., the time being 
three minutes in each case. The fat was not allowed to vary more than 
one degree above or two degrees below the stated temperature through- 
out the frying. 

3. Fat and water analysis of dough and doughnuts 

Two sets of duplicate samples of the dough were taken immediately 
after rolling out for drying and for fat extraction by the Soxhlet method. 

'Masters, H. and Smith, H., The Analyst, 39 (1914), pp. 347-350. 



1919] 



CH.A.NGES IN FATS USED FOR FRYING DOUGH 



397 



Care was taken in the latter process to use specially purified ether, and 
to extract for at least twenty-four hours. 

After the frjong the doughnuts were allowed to drain for a few mo- 
ments, then transferred to a covered dish with an outlet for the steam. 
After exactly an hour two sets of duplicate samples for fat and water 
determinations were removed and treated as were the dough samples. 

The results of these determinations are summarized in table I. 

TABLE 1 
Percentage of various fats absorbed by a standard dough 





FAT CAICDLATED TO WATER-FEEE BASIS 


FAT ABSORBED 


PAT 


Dough 


Doughnut 

fried 
at 205°C. 


Doughnut 

fried 
at 210°C. 


At 205°C. 


At210'C. 


Lard 


percent 

6.74 
7.95 
6.70 
7.37 


per cent 
22.86 
30.36 
30.58 
27.44 


per cent 

24.84 
27.96 
28.46 
30.58 


per cent 

16.12 
22.41 
23.88 
20.07 


per cent 
18 10 




20 01 




21 76 


Cottolene 


23 21 







Using fresh weight basis 



Lard 


4.49 
5.47 
4.57 
4.94 


17.77 
24.40 
25.53 
21.73 


19.36 

22.85 
24.36 


13.28 
18.93 
20.96 
16.78 


14 87 








18 28 


Cottolene 


19 92 








..17.49 


17.36 









4. Fat absorption 

There is apparent no relation between the temperatures of frying 
and the amount of fat absorbed where the variation is as slight as from 
205°C. to 210°C. 

The quantity of fat present in the finished doughnuts is considerably 
less than that reported by Miss McKee, an average of 17.4 per cent 
of the fresh weight as compared with the 34.7 per cent reported by the 
former investigator. The difference in composition of the dough can 
scarcely account for so large a variation, since the recipes used were 
almost identical, as indicated by the following comparison: 



398 



THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS 



[September 



Comparison of recipes 



Sugar 

Egg 

Fat 

Baking powder 

Milk 

Flour 

Salt 



MCKKE RFrrpy. 


RECIPE 

IN PRESENT 
STUDY 


DIFFERENCK 




Grams 


Measure 


grams 


grams 






300 


300 








84 


66 


18 


he. 


34 


36 


2 





25 


24 


1 





340 


352 


12 





681 plus 28 used 


888 


179 


lie. 


in rolling out 








dough 








Not given 


1 







It will be noted that the only differences lie in the proportion of egg, 
there being | cup, or \ of the amount of egg less in our recipe than in 
the standard dough described by Miss McKee, and in the flour, of 
which we used 1§ cups, or one-quarter, more. Our doughnuts were 
Ught, fluffy, and sufficiently sweet and crisp to be entirely palatable. 

The results obtained in our study approximate more closely than 
did Miss McKee's the percentage of fat present in the doughnuts usu- 
ally offered for sale by bakeries, and that given in the Bulletin of the 
Department of Agriculture,' 21.0 per cent. 



n. CHANGES IN PHYSICAL AND CHEMICAL CONSTANTS OF THE FATS USED 
IN FRYING DOUGHNUTS 

Samples of the fresh fats and of those in which six of the doughnuts 
described above had been fried were tested for iodin value, melting 
point, refractive index, and acidity. 

/. The iodin absorption number 

The Hanus^ method was used, and especial care was taken to keep 
the solutions at uniform temperature throughout the operations. The 
results obtained fall within the limits given by Lewkowitsch,' and show 
a decrease of 0.2 to 2 per cent in the amount of iodin absorbed by the 

'The Chemical Composition of American Food Materials, U. S. Depl. Agr., O. E. S. 
Bulletin 28. 

«U. S. Dept. of Agr. Bur. of Chem., BuUetin 107, pp. 136-137. 

' Lewkowitsch, Chemical Technology and Analysis of Oils, Fats and Waxes. 1913, 
V. I, p. 410. 



1919] 



CHANGES IN FATS USED FOR FRYING DOUGH 



399 



fats after being used. There appears no definite relation between the 
change in the iodin number and the per cent of fat absorbed by the 
doughnuts. In order to discover whether any relation exists between the 
amount of dough exposed to the hot fat and the decrease in iodin num- 
ber, fourteen doughnuts in succession were fried at 210°C. for three 
minutes in a sample of crisco, as compared with the six previously 
used. The length of time of heating was thus increased in proportion 
also, since the same vessel and amount of fat were used in each case, 
and only one doughnut was fried at a time. The result showed a de- 
crease in the iodin number of 1.26 per cent as compared with the 0.2 3 
per cent previously obtained. Table 2 summarizes these data. 

The results here given are in accord with those obtained by Masters 
and Smith.* 

TABLE 2 
Changes in iodin number of fals used for frying a standard dough 



FAT 


FRESH 


AFTER FRYING 

SIX 

DOUGHNUTS 


DECREASE 


Lard 


65.04 
83.72 
78.03 
75.29 

94.51 


63.04 
82.20 
77.80 
74.03 

AFTER FEYWO 
FOURTEEN 
DOUGHNUTS 

93.67 


2 00 




1.52 




23 




1 26 


Cottolene 


0.84 



TABLE 3 
Changes in melting points of fats used for frying a standard dough 



FAT 


FRESH FAT 


AFTER FRYING 

SIX 

DOUGHNUTS 


DIFFERENCE 




degrees C. 
38.0 
43.8 
44.0 


degrees C. 

36.2 
43.6 
43.1 


degrees C. 
1 8 




0.2 


Lard 


0.9 







Z. Melting poittt 

The melting points of the fresh and used fats were determined by 
drawing the fat into capillary tubes in the usual manner, the melting 

' Loc. cit. 



400 



THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS 



[September 



point being taken twelve hours later in each case. The melting points 
were lowered by use as shown in table 3. 

3. Index of refraction 

The Zeiss butyro refractometer' was the instrument used, the hard 
fats being maintained at a temperature of 40°C. while the oil was main- 
tained at 19°C. 

The formula R equals i?i plus 0.55 {T — Ti) was used in which R is 
the reading reduced to T, Ri the reading at temperature Ti, T the stand- 
ard temperature, and 0.55 the correction for 1°C. in scale dixisions. 
For the oil, the factor 0.58 was used. 



Changes in 



TABLE 4 
refractive indices of fats used for frying a standard dough 



FAT 


FRESH FAT 


AFTER 

FRVINQ SIX 
DODGHNDTS 


DIFFERENCE 
CN)j, 4I3°C. 


FAT ABSORBED BY 

DOUGHNTTS CALCULATED TO 

WATER-FREE BASIS 




205°C. 


aicc. 


Lard 


1.4601 
1.4621 
(At 18.8") 
1.4622 
1.4640 


1.4603 
1.4622 

1.4627 
1.4641 


0.0002 
0.0001 

0005 
0001 


16 12 

22.41 

23.88 
20.07 


18.10 




20.01 




21.76 




23.21 







It is interesting to note that the refractive indices and amount of 
fat absorbed by the doughnuts are parallel, the fats absorbed in larger 
amounts showing higher refractive indices, and also larger increases 
in these numbers. It is obvious that the refractive index of a fat must 
be dependent upon its chemical constitution, and that any change 
indicated by a decrease in the iodin number will be reflected in the re- 
fractive index.'" 

4. Free fatty acid content 

The method used was the usual one of titration of the fat in 95 per 
cent alcohol solution against N/20 sodium hydroxide, phenolphthalein 
being used as indicator. The temperature was maintained at 60°C. 
The results are given in table 5. 

» U. S. Dept. Agr. Bur. of Chem. Bulletin 107, p. 132. 
"Heim, F., BuU. Agr. InteUigence, 7 (1916), pp. 1529-1532. 



1919] CHANGES IN FATS USED FOR FRYING DOUGH 

TABLE 5 
Changes in the free fatty acid content of fats used for frying a standard dough 



401 



PAX 


raZSH FAT 


AITEE FRY- 
IKG SIX 
DOUGH- 
OUTS 


INCREASE 


PER CENT 
INCREASE 


PER CENT FAT 

ABSORBED CALCDLATED 

TO WATER-FREE 

BASIS 




KOH per 

gram 


KOH per 
gram 


205° 


210° 


Lard 


mtm. 

1.095 
0.719 
0.350 

0.173 


mgm. 

1.134 
0.823 
0.389 
0.207 


0.041 
0.104 
0.039 
0.034 


3.7 

14.4 
11.2 
19.6 


16.12 
22.41 

23.88 
20.07 


18 10 




20 01 




21.76 


Cottolene 


23.21 



Here again it may be seen that a relation seems to exist between 
the quantities of fat absorbed by the doughnuts and the acidity of the 
fats, the fats having least acidity being absorbed to the greatest extent. 

In order to discover whether heating alone may account for the in- 
creased acidity of the fats, samples of these fats were heated alone at 
the same temperature and for the same length of time as that consumed 
in the frying. The acidity was then determined as described above. 
Table 6 gives the results thus obtained. 

TABLE 6 

Changes in the free fatty acid content of lieated fats 



FAT 


FRESH FAT 


ATTER HEATING 






KOH per gram 


KOH per gram 




Lard 


mgm. 

1.09 
0.71 
0.34 
0.17 


1.04 
0.73 
0.30 
0.14 


-0 05 




-1-0.02 
04 






03 







Thus it wiU be seen that heating the fats alone does not bring about 
consistently increased acidity as does heating in the presence of food. 
These results are comparable with those reported by Masters and Smith 
and must be explained as showing both an increased surface hydrolysis 
and oxidation and a possible catalytic action of the flour mixture upon 
the hot fats. 



402 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [September 

CONCLUSIONS 

It is evident that much more work remains to be done before any 
definite information can be obtained concerning the conditions govern- 
ing the absorption of hot fat by flour mixtures. But from the limited 
data available it may be stated that : 

1. There is considerable variation in the amount of different fats 
absorbed by a standard dough mixture, fried at a constant temperature 
for a fixed length of time. The data obtained do not support the 
claims of relatively lower absorption made for proprietary fats. 

2. The fats used for frying a given quantity of the standard dough 
showed consistent decreases in iodin number, lowering of melting 
points, and increases in acidity and refractive index. All of these 
changes point to partial hydrolysis and oxidation of the fats. 

3. Fats heated alone for the same length of time as those used for 
frying show no consistent change in acidity, but considerable decrease 
in iodin number. This indicates some oxidation, but uncertain hy- 
drolysis, due to heating alone. 

4. Some relation seems to exist between quantity of fat absorbed by 
the dough fried at 210°C. and acidity of the fat. Since the larger 
amoimts of absorption occur in the case of the less acid fats there would 
appear to be either a selective absorption of the unchanged glycerides 
or a decreased permeability of the dough due to the action of the free 
fatty acids. 

In general, the increase of acidity after the frying is greater in those 
fats showing the larger amounts of absorption. 



FOR THE HOMEMAKER 

HOME ECONOMICS AND CHILD WELFARE' 

ELIZABETH MCCR.A.CKEN 
U . S. Dept. of Labor, Children's Bureau, Washingkm, D. C. 

When the American Home Economics Association was formally or- 
ganized at Washington, D. C, December, 1908, it stated as its object, 
"the improvement of living conditions in the home, the institutional 
household, and the community"; and, further, mentioned the specific 
means by which it aimed to fulfil its purpose: "By the study of prob- 
lems connected with the household; by securing recognition of subjects 
related to the home in the curricula of existing schools and colleges; 
by securing the establishment and standardization of professional 
courses and schools for the training of teachers, and of home, institu- 
tional, social, and mxmicipal workers; by encouraging and aiding in- 
vestigations and research in universities, and by the State and Federal 
governments; by publications professional and popular, and by meet- 
ings, local and national, that knowledge may be increased, and espe- 
cially that pubHc opinion may be informed and advancement made 
secure by legislative enactment." 

In regard to membership, the Association was made widely inclusive, 
the following being eligible: "All professionally concerned with this 
field as teachers of domestic science and art, home and institutional 
economics, and allied educational fields; students, investigators, house- 
keepers, institution managers, social and municipal workers, interested 
housewives and homemakers; professional workers in allied fields, as 
educators, physicians, hygienists, sanitary experts, architects, and 
others; clubs, associations, societies, and institutions interested in the 
work of this Association." 

Only one condition as to eligibility for membership was made, namely 
"active interest" — members must be "actively interested in home 
problems." 

' Presented at the Twelfth Annual Meeting of the American Home Economics Assacii- 
tion, Blue Ridge, N. C, June, 1919. 

403 



404 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [September 

The American Home Economics Association did not represent a new 
movement, nor was it entirely a further development of the National 
Household Economic Association, nor of the Lake Placid Conference 
on Home Economics. The home economics movement is as old as the 
home itself; the iirst home economics association consisted of the two 
women, whoever they were and wherever they were, who first exchanged 
"tested" recipes or confided to each other their discoveries in the matter 
of labor-saving devices or the utiHzing of left-overs. These two women, 
moreover, were no doubt quite as scientific as women one occasionally 
meets even at the present time, who tell us that they "know nothing 
(or care less) about calories but can cook." In short, every house- 
keeper is vitally interested in home economics, and a home economics 
association is simply a socialization of that vital interest. 

When the Children's Bureau was estabhshed by Act of Congress in 
April, 1912, it was directed by law "to investigate and report . 
upon all matters pertaining to the welfare of children and child life among 
all classes of our people . . . especially . . . the questions 
of infant mortality, the birth rate, orphanage, juvenile courts, desertion, 
dangerous occupations, accidents and diseases of children, employment 
(and) legislation affecting children in the several States and Territories." 

In the seven years of its existence the bureau has issued, exclusive 
of aimual reports, 53 pubhcations, the majority of them the results of 
studies made of the conditions surrounding children and child life in 
certain selected sections of the country. Six others are in press; and ten 
others in preparation. 

One group of studies is concerned with the problem of infant mor- 
taUty, nine of these being intensive studies of the problem of infant 
mortality in selected cities, namely, Johnstown, Pennsylvania; Mont- 
clair, New Jersey; Manchester, New Hampshire; Waterbury, Connec- 
ticut; Saginaw, Michigan; Akron, Ohio; New Bedford and Brock- 
ton, Massachusetts; and Baltimore, Maryland. These intensive studies 
brought to light certain fundamental facts in regard to the causes of 
infant deaths, and the means whereby they may be prevented. ^Among 
the causes, two are outstanding: low family income and ignorance on 
the part of the mother and father. 

Another group of studies made by the bureau has to do with the 
condition of children in rural communities. The results of three such 
studies have been published; they were made respectively in rural 
counties of Kansas, North Carolina, and Montana. Again, these studies 



1919] HOME ECONOMICS AND CHILD WELFARE 405 

bring clearly to light the fact that insufficient money or insufficient 
knowledge is responsible for the loss of hfe, the absence of health, and 
the inadequacy of those other necessities, education and recreation, 
among the children of the rural sections of our country. 

These rural studies concern themselves not only with the condition 
of children, but also with a subject which is more intimately and more 
\itally related to the welfare of children than any other subject what- 
ever — maternity care. The health and strength of the infant depends 
upon the health and strength of the mother; the care of the mother dur- 
ing the nine months preceding the birth of a child very largely deter- 
mines not only the well-being of that child, but its life or death. A 
report on Maternal Mortality from All Conditions Connected with 
Childbirth, pubUshed by the Bureau, discusses this important subject in 
detail. And, again, the conclusion reached is that poor prenatal and 
maternity care, or none, can almost invariably be attributed to poverty 
or ignorance in greater or lesser degree. 

Another group of studies made by the bureau is concerned with the 
condition of children who, because they are dependent, defective, or 
delinquent, require special care, either in their own homes or in suitable 
institutions. And here, again, it becomes apparent not only that many 
such children are not receiving the care they need, but that the reasons 
are, once more, poverty and ignorance. 

A group of studies bearing upon the problem of the child in industry 
has been made by the bureau. Three intensive studies of children pre- 
maturely employed (in North and South Carolina, in Rhode Island, and 
in Biloxi, IMississippi) once more make clear that family need and parental 
ignorance are among the basic causes of child labor. Great numbers of 
children were put to work because their fathers could not earn enough 
to support their families, and great numbers of children also went to 
work because their parents did not know the value, to children, of 
education. 

Indeed, one may say that all the intensive studies of the Children's 
Bureau have shown that economic pressure and ignorance are at the 
root of practically all the unfortunate conditions in which children are 
living (or djdng) in this country; and that child welfare includes higher 
wages for fathers, mothers' pensions, and the education of both fathers 
and mothers in infant care and child care and in the prime importance 
of giving such care in all its details. 
K How is this necessary work to be done? That half of it which has to 



406 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [September 

do with the securing of an income sufficient to maintain a healthful stand- 
ard of living can only be accomplished by an unflagging effort on the 
part of all persons to educate themselves in regard to economic justice — ■ 
and to act on their education. There need be no vague nor over-in- 
dividualistic efforts to this end: such work is already being done through 
existing organizations which have the confidence and respect of the 
community, such as the National Consumers League, the National Child 
Labor Committee, the National Woman's Trade Union League, the 
American Federation of Labor, and other similar organizations. 

As for the ignorance of parents — how is this to be met and overcome? 
There is only one means, and that is education through cooperation, 
the cooperation of individual specialists, of organizations, and of the 
parents. Some part of this work has been and is being done by the 
Children's Bureau, through its studies and the circulation of the reports 
based upon those studies. Other bureaus and organizations also are 
doing such work, through their several means and methods. Only 
through the cooperation of all can full results be obtained — and obtained 
speedily. 

The Children's Bureau is in a position to speak with some authority 
upon the effectualness of such mutual cooperation, for the reason that it 
has had this cooperation in very great measures, and with noteworthy 
results. The work of Children's Year, which it undertook in cooperation 
with the Child Conservation Section of the Council of National De- 
fense, furnishes a notable example. Not only did the bureau and the 
Council of National Defense cooperate in Children's Year, but the 
General Federation of Women's Clubs, the Red Cross Society, State 
and County Boards of Health, Instructive Visiting Nurses Associations, 
Baby Welfare Organizations, and smaller and more local associations of 
many types: all these cooperated. During the weighing and measur- 
ing test a minister in a typically American suburban parish was asked 
what work the Ladies Foreign Missionary Society of his church was 
engaged in just then, and he rephed: "The ladies who are not weighing 
and measuring babies are making a local birth registration test, and the 
president of the society is getting up a child welfare conference." 

At the request of the President of the United States, the Secretary of 
Labor called a meeting in Washington, in May of this year, of the 
Children's Bureau Conference on Child Welfare Standards. Not only 
many American authorities on the subject of child welfare, but repre- 
sentatives of Belgium, France, Great Britain, Italy, Japan, and Serbia 



1919] HOME ECONOMICS AND CHILD WELFARE 407 

were present. The foreign delegates reported especially upon what their 
nations had learned as a result of their war experiences, concerning the 
welfare of children. The American experts discussed the National 
Standards which were recommended by the three following sections 
into which the Washington Conference was divided: (1) Public pro- 
tection of life of mothers and children; (2) Child labor and education; 
(3) Children in need of special care. 

At a general section of the Conference, economic and social aspects 
of child welfare standards were discussed, and an adequate wage for the 
father, wholesome living conditions, proper recreation, and the abolition 
of racial discrimination were recognized as fundamental in any child 
welfare problem. 

Minimum Standards were formulated by the Conference; these stand- 
ards actually are minimum, and in no way define the measure of pro- 
tection which an advanced state or community might wish to give its 
children. 

These standards will be "submitted;" the great point is, submitted 
to whom? The answer, of course, is the community — those persons 
in the community who, because they appreciate the importance of the 
task, and are equipped or can equip themselves for it, are what one may 
describe as "called" to do the necessary educational work with all 
members of the community, but most especially with fathers and 
mothers. 

The education of fathers and mothers in the care of children can be 
done only by cooperation, because it must be done more or less indi- 
vidually. The Children's Bureau can and does send out its well- 
known group of bulletins on Prenatal, Infant, and Child Care, and send 
them out in enormous numbers; but the bureau cannot go into an indi- 
vidual home and tell the mother why milk is an indispensable food — 
not for children as such, but for the actual, individual children playing 
about the room; and this is necessary, if full results are to be obtained. 
One of the tendencies of human nature which we are constantly combat- 
ing is the tendency of a woman to ask a neighbor, whom she knows, 
to advise her, even on matters of which the neighbor is as ignorant as 
herself. This tendency, hke most others, should not be combated, 
but educated and trained: a neighbor who knows what to tell the 
woman when she comes to ask should be provided. 

And this is exactly what no less an organization than the United 
States Govenmaent has done; the Home Demonstration Agent is that 



408 THE i JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [September 

neighbor. "Of course she goes into the community for a special pur- 
pose," a member of the Department of Agriculture recently said, "but 
she does a great deal more than that; you see, the women ask her every- 
thing." That is one great point — the women ask her everything; 
another great point is that she usually knows, or she knows where to 
find out, the answers to the questions they ask her. Moreover, having 
their confidence, and being actually, in person as well as in spirit, a 
neighbor, she has many opportunities to give them useful and valuable 
information for which it would not occur to them to ask — not knowing 
that they need it. 

For example in the matter of prenatal care, an overwhelming number 
of women do not know how important it is that they put themselves 
under the care of a physician from the very beginning of pregnancy. 
And there are many husbands who do not appreciate the fact that 
good confinement care is absolutely essential to the well-being of their 
wives. We may furnish "literature" on these subjects, but it remains 
for the personal friend, the neighbor, to make sure that it is put to 
actual, practical use. 

The cooperation of all organizations large and small, is needed for 
the solution of the great problems of child welfare, but there is perhaps 
no type of organization which has what children call "such a good 
start " as a Home Economics Association. It has been said of the home 
economics movement in America that it began in the kitchen. For 
the purposes of child welfare, it could scarcely have begun in a better 
place. Whatever else may be the problems of a mother, one problem 
she has daily, three times daily, and that is the preparation of the family 
meals. WTiether she has servants or "does her own work," her kitchen 
is one of her chief and most insistent concerns. She is there — and 
when the home economics movement began in America, it — might one 
not say instinctively? — began there. 

When the home economics worker, whether County Demonstration 
Agent, Visiting Housekeeper, or Dietitian, goes to her work, she goes 
into the kitchens of the community. And while she is teaching one 
thing, she may teach other things. A home economics expert gives an 
interesting account of a Home Demonstration Agent who went into a 
farm kitchen to help the woman of the household can tomatoes. Dur- 
ing the course of the morning that agent also taught the woman how 
to pasteurize milk; and, further, not only told her that breast milk was 
the preferred food for babies, but told her why. "There is a great deal 



1919] HOME ECONOMICS AND CHILD WELFARE 409 

of time for talking about other things when one is helping can tomatoes," 
the home economics expert who told this story said. The great point 
then is: WTiat other things does the person who is helping know? 

Home economics workers naturally see less of the fathers than the 
mother of the families they visit. However, the fathers hear about 
them from the mothers, and they too ask them, if not everything, yet 
some things. One home economics worker made a point of observing 
the physical condition of the older children on the farms she visited, 
and of inquiring in regard to the chores they did. She was able to do 
a considerable amount of educational work with their fathers in this 
subject. 

Another home economics worker noted wherever she went the presence 
or absence of labor-saving devices, and the conditions governing the 
water supply. She found that a great many men had located wells 
for the use of stock close to the barn, but that it had not occurred to 
them that the water supply for the use of the family should be near the 
house. Similarly with labor-saving devices — many a man had an en- 
gine to pump the water for the barn, while his wife had no such con- 
venience even for pumping the water for laundry purposes. Education 
was slow in this direction, but a beginning was made — a beginning 
which, it is safe to say, could not have been made so well by anyone 
except a home economics expert. 

Education in regard to the care of infants and children in the home 
naturally begins with the parents and is confined largely to them. In 
the past, such efforts have perhaps been too largely directed towards 
the parents; and but Httle account was taken of the fact that, after 
babyhood is passed, one cannot take care of a child without the in- 
telligent cooperation of that child. It is an interesting fact that the 
JoxjRNAL OF Home Economics has, from year to year in the ten 
years of its existence, published an increasing number of articles relat- 
ing to the training of children in regard to proper habits of eating. 
Home economics speciaUsts have appreciated the fact that it is not 
sufficient to put before children the foods they should eat; they also 
must be taught to eat such foods with pleasure. How shall this be 
done? 

Persons who have much association with children tell us that one 
of the essentials in the accomplishment of the education of children in 
any habit is not trying too hard, not, as it were, "rubbing it in." One 
must not depend too much upon words, especially frequently repeated 



410 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [September 

words; and one should use the words "you ought," and "it is good for 
you," very seldom. The Uttle boy who, when asked what he would 
like to have for dinner on his birthday, repHed decidedly, "I don't 
want anything nourishing," exhibited a reaction not only essentially 
childlike, but characteristically hmnan. 

Perhaps the best method, especially with young children, is simply to 
allow them to be present when home problems are being discussed with 
the mother. When a child is told to "run away and play while mother 
talks with the lady," he is being sent away from one of his chief edu- 
cational opportunities. Rather should he be encouraged — or allowed, 
it usually being unnecessary to encourage a child on such an occasion — 
to remain while mother talks with the lady. It is amazing to discover 
not only the amount, but the kind of information that even small 
children absorb under such circumstances. A home economics expert 
tells a deUghtful story which illustrates this point. A little boy of five 
was brought by his mother to a lecture on food values — for the reason 
that she had no one at home with whom to leave him. The next eve- 
ning she gave the child at supper a dish of prunes for dessert. When 
he had finished eating them he said to her; "Mother, may I have 
another hundred calories of prunes?" 

Children would seem to take quite as much interest in calories as 
grown ups do, if not morel Mr. and Mrs. Edwin Tenney Brewster, when 
their book, "The Nutrition of a Household," was in preparation, made 
a daily practice of counting the number of calories each member of 
the family had received at each meal, and keeping a record of them. 
In a very short time, the children of the family expressed a desire to 
keep their "own calorie books." Moreover, they did it, and with 
regularity and considerable accuracy. 

It can scarcely be said too frequently that while home economics 
begins in the kitchen and concerns itself first of all with the solving of 
food problems, it does not (and should not) remain in the kitchen. It 
goes through the house, and through the immediate surroundings of the 
house, and thence to the community. Among the first problems it 
meets are the problem of sanitation, the fly problem, the problem 
involved in the proper disposal of waste products, the problem of the 
milk supply: these and a score of others it meets. It can solve them, 
but not alone. No one organization can solve them alone. All or- 
ganizations must cooperate. With a diversity of specialists and vary- 
ing degrees of specialization, there must be one and the same spirit — 



1919] HOME ECONOMICS AND CHILD WELFARE 411 

the endeavor to make, not only better, but sufficiently better, the con- 
ditions under which women give birth to children, and the conditions 
under which those children are reared. It is not enough to investigate 
and to report, nor is it enough to recommend ; the results of the investi- 
gating and reporting must be used, and the recommendations must be 
put into effect. 

No workers have a larger opportunity in this field than the experts 
in home economics. It is not because they are scientifically trained in 
the fields of household arts and domestic science that the home econom- 
ics experts have such an opportunity; it is rather because they, perhaps 
more than any other group of trained workers, appreciate the fact that 
the home is not simply the house, and that child welfare is not simply 
keeping children well, and sending them to school, and furnishing 
them with opportunities for play. Needless to say, the house must be 
healthful, and it should be beautiful. But the reason why is the im- 
portant point; it is the place in which the home, the living unit of a 
living state, is made. As for the children — of course they must be kept 
well, and they must be sent to school, and facilities for the proper use 
of their leisure time must be furnished. But all this is not child welfare — ■ 
it is the means to child welfare, which is the rearing of happy, useful 
citizens. 



EDITORIAL 

Twelfth Annual Meeting, American Home Economics Association, 

The fact that Blue Ridge, N. C, was not generally known to ticket 
sellers bid fair for a restful stay in the mountains. The program also 
seemed to have been planned with the double purpose of offering valuable 
conference periods and allowing time to enjoy the mountain trails and 
the views from the piazza of Robert E. Lee Hall. 

Several other conferences ran parallel to the home economics confer- 
ence, but there was no time for attending their meetings. The dining 
hall seating 600 was filled except for occasional meals, when groups 
were changing. The meals were always served exactly on time and with 
no delay during the meal, a great convenience. The dining room was 
in charge of Mary B. Davis of Judson College, while the kitchen was 
managed by Daisy Brooks of Greensboro Normal School. The efl&cient 
service of these two women was much appreciated. One hundred and 
fifty girls and boys, students of Southern Colleges, served in the dining 
room and looked after the sleeping rooms. The girls named their dor- 
mitory "Martha Washington Hall," and the colored help in the kitchen 
then called theirs "Booker Washington Hall." 

The setting would not be complete without some mention of the fre- 
quent rains, and the resulting cloud effects in the mountains. Since 
everything was under one roof, except the sleeping quarters in some of 
the cottages, weather was of minor importance. 

The Southern Home Economics Association had its meetings in con- 
junction with the mother organization, and two of the five general 
meetings held in the evening were under its auspices. 

The President of the Southern Association, Edith M. Thomas, Florida 
State College for Women, and Catherine Mulhgan, Converse College, 
Spartanburg, S. C, who also extended a greeting, were most hospitable 
in their greetings to the American Association. 

Mary E. Sweeny, University of Kentucky, held her audience spell- 
bound while she recounted her experiences "Canteening with the 
American Army in France." At Chateau Thierry and Argonne she 
and her sister who was with her must have proved themselves most 
412 



1919] EDITORIAL 413 

serviceable members of the Y. M. C. A. The American Home Eco- 
nomics Association thrilled with pride in its representative. 

It was fortunate that Dr. Bruce R. Payne, President of George Pea- 
body College for Teachers, preceded Miss Sweeny, for he berated home 
economics teachers soundly. Since criticism frankly given is always 
stimulating, his statements should be borne in mind. He compared 
teachers of physics, Latin, Enghsh and others with teachers of home 
economics as to scholarly attainments and spirit of research, sa3ang 
that the latter compared unfavorably and were much less well prepared 
for teaching their subject. Unfortunately there was no time for 
discussion. 

In this connection it is interesting to note that there were in the 
various sectional meetings a number of reports of research work. One 
which attracted wide interest was given by Mabel B. Trilling, who re- 
ported for a group at work at Chicago University on analysis of the 
content of household arts courses of study and text books. The mate- 
rial will be published by the University in the form of a monograph, and 
promises to be most enlightening. As a result of this piece of work 
Miss Trilling was appointed by the Council Chairman of a Committee 
on Educational Research in Home Economics. Other members of the 
committee were Professor Charters of the University of Illinois and 
Ethelwyn Miller of Iowa State College, Ames, Iowa. They will add 
to their number. 

Reports on experimental cookery were given in the Science Section 
by Dr. Minna C. Denton, Experimental Kitchen, Office of Home Eco- 
nomics, U. S. Department of Agriculture. Although she gave glimpses 
into various other problems on which she is working, her special subject 
was "Oven Temperatures as Related to Consistency of Batters and 
Doughs and to Gas Consumption." 

Elizabeth W. Miller, Iowa State College, reported on experiments in 
vegetable cookery, particularly concerning the changes of color in 
cooking of green vegetables. 

Dr. Katharine Blunt, Chairman, reported for Dr. Agnes Fay Morgan, 
University of California, Sybil Woodruff, University of Chicago and 
George Peabody College for Teachers, and Elizabeth Sprague, University 
of Kansas, three papers on "Changes in Fats in Cookery." 

Marion Weller, University of Minnesota, as chairman of a committee 
appointed at the conference in 1918 reported through Miss Vermilye 
the results of a questionnaire on the teaching of buying of textiles. 



414 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [September 

Her report was encouraging in that many reported that the questions 
had stimulated them to strengthen their courses in that respect. 

Two other constructive projects were launched in the Textile Section, 
one an effort to have textile manufacturing concerns, jobbers, and re- 
tailers cooperate in producing a few standard materials labeled accord- 
ingly. Following such action, the Section will conduct an educational 
drive in the Association to teach women the advantages of buying the 
materials. Any reader who can do anything to further the work of 
the committee in bringing the project to the attention of the trade will 
do well to communicate with Miriam Birdseye, States Relations Serv- 
ice, U. S. Department of Agriculture, Washington, D. C. 

The other effort is in the way of improving the interior decoration 
and furnishings as shown on moving picture screens, first by bringing 
the question to the attention of managers of moving picture concerns 
and suggesting that they employ decorators in staging their plays; 
second, by asking home economics teachers to report on the furnishings 
shown in various pictures they may see. Blanks for such reports will 
be furnished for teachers of home economics or students of house fur- 
nishing classes. Address Florence E. Winchell, 176 Elm Avenue, 
Mt. Vernon, New York. 

Dr. C. F. Langworthy gave an account of the very extensive investi- 
gations on foot in the Office of Home Economics, U. S. Department of 
Agriculture, that was a revelation to most of those who heard it. It in- 
cluded a statement of Government bulletins under preparation. 

Elizabeth McCracken and Mrs. Max West of the Children's Bureau, 
Washington, D. C. spoke from the standpoints of home economics in 
general and home demonstration in particular. Mary A. Harper, Asso- 
ciation for Improving the Condition of the Poor, New York City, re- 
ported in detail the work that is being done in nutrition classes for 
children. Her skillful use of charts and graphs both with the children 
and parents, in stimulating conscientious efforts, was very suggestive. 

Dr. Benjamin R. Andrews spoke on Wednesday evening for the 
Thrift Education Movement. Dr. Andrews, Mrs, Norton, and Miss 
Elliott represent home economics work in the Savings Division of the 
Treasury Department. They urged teachers of home economics to de- 
vise schemes for stimulating savings in all schools, in addition to teach- 
ing thrifty housekeeping habits. 

Dr. Graham Lusk, Cornell University Medical College, spoke on 
"Food and Reconstruction." His paper will be much used in printed 



1919] EDITORIAL 415 

fonn, for it was written as a result of his investigations as a member 
of the Interallied Scientific Food Commission. 

Dr. F. C. Butler, Director Americanization Division, U. S. Depart- 
ment of the Interior, gave startling figures regarding the illiteracy of 
native Americans, and urged greater efforts for universal education, 
and a democratic education in home economics. 

Edna N. WTiite, President of the Association, in her opening address 
on Monday evening reviewed the work of the year on the basis of the 
platform laid down the previous year. This served to bring before the 
Conference the big aims of home economics workers and to spur every- 
body to greater effort. 

Miss White's calm poise and her constant attention to the comfort 
of the group gave an atmosphere of repose which is always conducive 
to full appreciation of a conference program. It was a great satisfaction 
to the Association that Miss White was willing to accept the presi- 
dency for another year. 

The interest shown in all sectional meetings prompted those in charge 
to arrange the schedule so as to avoid overlapping as far as possible. 
This meant that nearly everyone was able to attend almost all meet- 
ings, but the looked for leisure vanished. 

The Institution Section held one session, given over to a report of 
the meeting in Madison, Wisconsin. 

At one of the meetings of the Extension Section Dr. Bradford Knapp, 
Chief of Extension work in the South, and Florence Ward, in Charge 
Extension Work with Women, N. and W., spoke and were also available 
for discussion for several days. Among other speakers on the extension 
program were Mrs. Jane S. McKimmon, State Home Demonstration 
Agent, N. C, and Mary B. McGowan, Urban Agent, Division of Ex- 
tension, Commercial Club, Nashville, Tenn. The second meeting was 
devoted to discussion of training courses for home demonstration 
agents, and phases of home demonstration projects: dairy work, animal 
industry, poultry work, clothing, girls' clubs, service. 

The work of the Textile and Science Sections has already been re- 
ferred to. 

The Vocational Committee meetings were very stimulating, particu- 
larly because Anna Richardson and Louise Stanley, both of the Federal 
Board for Vocational Education, were always available to answer ques- 
tions on Smith-Hughes and Smith-Lever problems. In the Friday 
evening meeting, at which Isabel Ely Lord was Chairman, both Miss 



416 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [September 

Richardson and Mrs. Anna L. Burdick spoke. Mrs. Burdick, who is 
Special Agent for Industrial Education of Girls and Women, Federal 
Board for Vocational Education, made a strong plea for technical 
training. Her analysis of the situations with which we are all familiar, 
i.e., the struggling of women forced to support themselves and others 
with no training for it, and her masterly use of statistics made Mrs. 
Burdick's address illuminating to every one. 

Dr. David Snedden of Teachers College could not attend the meet- 
ings as he had planned, but Miss Lord conducted the discussion of his 
newly issued pamphlet on Homemaking Education. Dr. Snedden's 
views are stimulating, and every home economics teacher will be in- 
terested to read this pamphlet, for sale by the Bureau of Publications, 
Teachers College. 

Jenny Snow, Supervisor of Home Economics, Chicago Public Schools, 
conducted a round table discussion as temporary chairman of the Com- 
mittee on Reorganization of Secondary School Courses in Home Eco- 
nomics. Although nothing definite was formulated as a result of the 
meeting, the Committee had the benefit of the expressions of opinion 
and educational practice in all parts of the country. It was gratifying 
that in many respects there was very general agreement in (1) working 
toward food and clothing problems as nearly under home conditions as 
possible; (2) avoiding exploiting of children in lunch room practice; 
(3) breadth of view in general education rather than over-emphasis on 
technical skill. 

The wide range of interests considered by the committee who arranged 
the program is apparent. In this connection it should be noted that 
Agnes Ellen Harris took over the task of program arrangements at a 
very late date, due to the illness of the original chairman. The Asso- 
ciation was deeply grateful for the wise selection of subjects and the 
strong speakers. 

The annual meeting of the American Home Economics Association is 
gaining in popularity. It is unfortunate that more cannot attend. 
Although the meetings prove of great value, the informal discussions of 
specific problems are even more helpful. Groups of three or four or a 
dozen spring up on the spur of the moment or as a result of unfinished 
discussions at meetings. Although one of the charms of the conference 
is that it is small enough to be personal, still those who attend are eager 
to see the benefits shared and urge all to make especial effort to attend 
next June. Florence E. Winchell, 

The Lincoln School of Teachers College, New York City. 



19191 COMMENT AND DISCUSSION 417 

COMMENT AND DISCUSSION 

Obdixrate Educators. In the fall of 1907 the meeting of the Associa- 
tion of Collegiate Alumnae was held in Boston. During its session a 
woman, prominent in its councils, deKvered an address in which she 
tried by ridicule to dispose of the more modern and practical branches 
of study. Probably her audience as a whole either agreed or received 
the address as a characteristic expression; one hearer, however, not 
only was not con\-inced but felt a certain obligation to break a lance 
with the speaker and sent the following letter: 

March 3, 1908. 
My dear Miss : 

For many reasons I was keenly interested in your address at the A. C. A. 
Meeting last November. There were certain points, however, on which I 
would like more information. I have waited for the printed proceedings 
that I might not trouble so busy a woman unless there were sufficient ground 
to warrant it; and perhaps you will not agree with me in thinking my in- 
quiries justified. 

You said, "It is also true that sanitary and domestic science are not among 
the great disciplinary race studies." That is true, of course, for the past, 
since they are comparatively new. But for the future, why do you consider 
them lacking in disciplinary value? Is it from the nature of the study, or 
from the state of its development? 

The latter, as a reason, certainly has weight, for much of the earlier work 
has been elementary in character. But at the present time women — and 
men — of advanced scholarship are working in the development of courses 
whose content and method shall be scientifically worthy. 

As for speciahzed education for sex, there is no sex in sanitation, none in 
the fundamentals of hygiene and food stud}'. They are human studies, and 
are to be a part of the future man's education as well as of the woman's; 
not for the reason that the livelihood may be earned more easily, but as a 
necessary ground for the development of a sound body and sound mind. 

We are done with the idea that the scholar must be consumptive and the 
religious man a recluse. But was not that only the earlier, cruder form of 
this fear of the so-called practical? What is there that makes theoretical 
science so pure, and appUed science so unworthy? In our college physics 
we study the laws of heat and light. All our natural lives we must live in 
daily obedience to these laws, or suffer from bodily disability because we have 
broken them. Why are our minds less disciplined as we study our physics, 
by applying the laws to windows, stoves, and the general problems of our com- 
mon hfe? This is not a rhetorical question. I would like to know why you 
say that it is so. 



418 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [September 

I do not believe that such studies should be a compulsory part of a college 
course, at least at present, but that they should be offered as electives. They 
may be allied with the work in physics, chemistry, biology, and economics; 
and I beheve that proper courses, under proper instructors, will have as much 
disciplinary value as any other proper course. Is there any more ground 
for believing to the contrary than there was for belie\'ing that woman's edu- 
cation was doomed to remain academic? 

I am not a teacher and have no experience as an educator, but because 
when I heard your address I thought you were wrong I want to be cor- 
rected if I, rather than you, should change my opinion. It seems to me that 
I could go through your address and show the analogy between your attitude 

toward the "practical" studies, and that of President E and others 

toward woman's higher education in the past. 

This is all very presumptuous from a mere business woman to a college 
president, but I really want to know if you are following the work in these 
branches. 

It is a good many years since I left college walls, but if I am right, much 
of the cultural and discipUnary in our education comes from the Greeks, 
whose ideal of bodily development was beyond ours in some respects. Is 
it not tenable that greater attention on our part to the subjects that will 
give physical betterment may bring in happier results than you fear? 

The letter was honest in intent and the reader shaU decide as to its 
courtesy. In spite of the enclosed stamp for reply, none ever came 
nor was the original letter returned by the post office. 

Now in this year 1919 comes a newspaper report of a commencement 
address from the same source. The quotation following was taken 
from the Boston Transcript. 

The women of my generation and earlier generations (I might almost 
say from the time of Eve until the opening of Bryn Mawr and other women's 
colleges) have tried this practical applied education for centuries and we 
know of what we speak. It was only when we too were allowed to share 
in the kind of idealistic education that has nurtured the spirit of man from 
the time he first appeared as a thinking human being upon the earth that our 
woman's world of petty duties and interests became transformed into a new 
world of the spirit, for the first time inspired by these great devotions to 
abstract learning and abstract causes that have made our human race what 
it is. 

So-called practical studies, science applied to daily problems, the chemis- 
try of cooking, or furnaces, physics as applied to reading lamps, the arithmetic 
of the market and the bank account lose in some curious way the inspiration 



1919] COMMENT AND DISCUSSION 419 

and glor\- of theoretical studies. The soul and spirit have gone out of them. 
Teachers of such applied studies become in some strange way like the business 
men and women we have all kno^^^l. They, too, lose the radiant halo that in 
spite of their many human imperfections glorifies the head of a true teacher 
of the humanities. Both teachers and pupils become bleak, every-day kind 
of persons. There is now, however, an almost irresistible trend toward 
such bleak vocational studies and such bleak teachers. 

We will not enter into the personalities of this discussion, as to the 
relative bleakness of character exhibited by the materialistic professor 
of home economics, for instance, compared with some austere spirits we 
have known whose lives had been given to the "humanities." 

We will also pass lightly over the condensed history of education that 
estimates as idealistic man's first thinking; that compares the formu- 
lated courses of universities for men in the nineteenth century with 
the traditional home crafts of women; that denies to all women of the 
past entrance into the world of the spirit. College presidents are tired 
at Commencement time; but a tired college president should not con- 
demn thousands so easily to poor "bleak" lives even for the passing 
moment of her pronouncement. 

It may be that there is something more primitive and unreasoned 
than the excluder thinks in this antipathy for the "daily problems," 
the ' practical;" something allied to caste and the elaborate ceremonials 
of early peoples. On any other basis it is hard to imderstand the 
sharp discriminations as to the relative purity of subject matter. Why 
worship Greek culture with its perfection reflected in art and trans- 
muted into the classics, and neglect today the studies that tend to give 
us and the next generations bodies more capable of such development 
and such thought? Why is it so educative and refining to study the 
ways of faithful Penelope and neglect the knowledge that leads our 
women to look well to the ways of their households? Why but because 
of this great gulf that set art apart from practical women have homes 
been ugly shelters filled with horrors for the aesthetic? Why should 
a thinker meditate raptly on God in some of his marvellous creations, 
and deny him in the making of bread, or in numberless household 
processes revealing perfect law, or in the continued creation of life? 

This assumption, unconscious or expressed, that the present time and 
the near experience lack inspirational content is almost an unpardon- 
able sin. It condemns its follower to restricted paths, when the whole 
world might be his. It is at the root of class distinction. The educated 



420 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [September 

person must shut himself in to his pure life of theory, lea\'ing bleak, 
common experiences for those not so clever, not so fortunate or not so 
good as he. That is what it amounts to, logically. 

Someone says "Of course you are right, but wh}^ do you care?" I 
care because I, too, beheve in the humanities and I do not like to sit by 
speechless when those in high places treat them so ill as to predicate 
their continuance in our curricula on the defamation or exclusion of 
appKed science. Mere poKcy should have dictated a more generous 
course to these ideaUsts. WTiy have they so little faith in the power of 
their ideals as to fear that their \atality cannot stand an honest test? 
Why the thought of mutual exclusion? Why not welcome the test of a 
full education? Prove all things, hold fast what is good. 

I care, too, because I believe that not from any held educational 
thesis, but because of an ingrained and perhaps unconscious prejudice 
against manual work this exclusion of the practical has seemed so 
necessary to some of the high priests and priestesses of education. 
Why should a college president think applied science loses "in some 
curious way" the inspiration and glory of the theoretical? Why does 
a college professor have the intellectual hardihood to say that he hopes 
he shall never do a "useful" thing in his Kfe? Is it not, in the final 
analysis, because practical courses are connected in their minds with 
so-called common work? Do we need to go back to the days of the 
apostles and be shown by \'isions that there is nothing common? 

John Ruskin says: 

It is a no less fatal error to despise labor when regulated by intellect than 
to value it for its owa sake. In these days we are always trying to separate 
the two. We want one man to be always thinking, another to be always 
working; and we call the one a gentleman and the other an operative, whereas 
the workman ought often to be thinking and the thinker to be working, and 
both should be gentlemen in the best sense. Now, it is only by labor that 
thought can be made healthy, and only by thought that labor can be made 
happy. 

Because labor has not in the past been given its opportunity for 
thought — with all that implies — many working men of today are car- 
ried away by false or impractical theories. To think straight and true 
is therefore a doubly imperative responsibility on the "educated." 
Instead, some of these inactive "thinkers" whose thought has not been 
made healthy by participation in "every day" aitairs, shuffle their 



1919] COMMENT A>ro DISCUSSION 421 

ideas and deal them out like a pack of cards. How dare they presume 
to divide knowledge and humanity into spiritual knowledge for refined 
people and bleak, everyday knowledge for common people? There is 
great loss, negatively, in this, but the chief harm to society lies in the 
reaction on the active class. Labor has taken its cue and there has 
arisen the second of Ruskin's "fatal errors," "the new snobbery which 
consists in saying that the manual workers form the only useful class 
in society."' We shall all be fortunate if this ends in snobbery, merely, 
for those whose self-expression has been restricted to doing, become 
proportionately dangerous when they are impelled to reflect in action 
the untried theories of others. 

So, dear friends of the upper ether, come down here below among the 
common things, and see how good all life is. Knowledge is a body 
that should be fitly framed together. To hack off a limb here because 
it walks on the earth, or a hand there because it carries food that shall 
soon be transformed into the very material through which thought may 
exist, is crippling if not suicidal. Health as well as holiness lies in whole- 
ness, the dictionary tells us. It seems banal to have to say that the 
practical and the theoretical are not sworn enemies, only two phases 
of the truth. According to Governor Coolidge of Massachusetts 
"science provides power, alone, but not direction," that being furnished 
by ideals gained from the classics. The concept of others may differ 
from his, but all reconciUation lies in recognition of the fact that abound- 
ing Hfe includes both knowledge and wisdom in its use. 

Mary Barrows. 

' Christabel Pankhurst, 



NEWS FROM THE FIELD 



The National Research Council has ap- 
pointed a Committee on Food and Nutrition, 
constituted as follows: John R. MurHn, Gra- 
ham Lusk, Lafayette B. Mendel, C. F. Lang- 
worthy, H. C. Sherman, Alonzo E. Taylor, 
E. V. McCollum, Isabel Bevier. Henry P. 
Armsby, A. F. Woods, E. B. Forbes, W. H. 
Jordan, Ra>'mond A. Pearson. Of this gen- 
eral committee, the first eight are to consti- 
tute a Sub-committee on Human Nutrition, 
with J. R. MurlLn, Chairman, and the last 
three a Sub-committee on Animal Nutrition, 
with H. B. Armsby, Chairman. 

The Committee held an organization 
meeting at Cornell University Medical Col- 
lege, New York City, on July eleventh, and 
adopted the following tentative program: 

The Committee regards itself substantially 
a coordinating rather than a research body. 

Its objects are: (1) To promote scientific 
research upon the nutrition of men and of 
animals (especially animals of agricultural 
importance) and to bring about closer rela- 
tions between the two fields of work. (2) 
To promote study of the economic aspects 
of nutrition, i.e., study of national and inter- 
national as distinguished from personal 
nutrition. (3) Pending the possible estab- 
lishment of a National Institute of Nutri- 
tion, to act as an unofficial clearing house 
for existing research institutions and to pro- 
mote coordination of both American and 
foreign research. (4) To promote sane and 
authoritative extension and propaganda work 
in the interest of better nutrition. 

In considering methods, it must be borne 

in mind that the Committee has only moral 

and not mandatory authority. It suggest*: 

(1) a. Preparation of a broad program of 

research in both human and animal 

nutrition, emphasizing especially gaps 

in present knowledge with suggestion 

of problems of more immediate im- 

422 



portance. b. Maintenance of re- 
search fellowships, c. Subsidizing of 
especially important researches. 

(2) The cooperation of statistical agencies 

would appear necessary. 

(3) a. Meetings of the Committee and of 

nutrition investigators in general, es- 
pecially for the sake of maintaining 
personal touch and considering pro- 
grams of research, b. Correspondence 
and publications, c. Representation of 
the United States in the International 
Scientific Commission of Nutrition. 

(4) a. Cooperation with existing govern- 

mental agencies and educational in- 
sritutions, especially of the land grant 
colleges, b. Cooperation with the 
American Public Health Association. 
Among the questions affecting public wel- 
fare which require immediate investigation, 
the Committee considered the following the 
most important: a. Practicable changes in 
methods of food production for the purpose 
of reducing the cost of living without reduc- 
ing the quality of nutrition, b. Diet in re- 
lation to industrial efficiency, c. The food 
requirements of growing children. 

It was estimated that thirteen fellows of 
the National Research Council could profit- 
ably be put to work at once upon these prob- 
lems and various possible sources of funds 
were discussed. 

Informadon has been received from Dr. 
Alonzo E. Taylor, who is stUl in Paris, that 
"The Inter-.AUied Scientific Food Commis- 
sion closed its existence at Brussels on 
May 25 with recommendarions to the gov- 
ernments involved to form an Insritute for 
the Study of Nutrition, to be connected with 
and a part of the League of Nations in pre- 
cisely the same relation as the Red Cross 
will stand to the League with reference to 
sanitation." 



Vol. XI. No. 10 October, 1919 

THE 

Journal of Home Economics 

For those interested in Homemaking, Institution Management, 
and Educational Worlc in Home Economics 

Mrs. Auce P. Norton, Editor Ketcrah E. Baldwin, Business Edilot 

Editorial Board 
Mrs. Mary H. Abel C. F. Langworthv Eibelwyn Miller Ruth Wheeler Auy Daniels 

Ex-Officio Members — Edna N. White, President American Home Economics Association 
Elsie Leonard, Chairman Institution Economics Section 
Katherine Blunt, Chairman Science Section 
M.\MiE BiTNCH, Chairman Extension Education Section 
Mabel Trilling, Chairman Textile Section 

Collaborators — The OfEcers, Members of the Council, and Advisors 



CONTENTS 

How TO Make Home Economics Work Function Helen Lee Davis 423 

.\ Course for Home Deuonstr.\ticn Agents; The Illinois Plan . . . Mamie Bunch 430 

Reconstruction in Rel.vtion to Home Economics Mice RavenliiU 436 

Changes in Fats Absorbed by Fried Foods .... Sybil Woodruff and Katharine Blunt 440 

Ql"eries ■*■'- 

For the Homemaker 

A Plan of Spending for the Home Pearl MacDonald 453 

The Partner at Home •^57 

An Incident Elva M. Dickey 459 

Editorial ^^ 

Comment and Discussion 465 

Books and Literature 467 

Pamphlets Received 468 

News from the Field 469 



The Jot;«NAL of Home Economics is published monthly by the American Home Economics Association. 

$2.00 A YEAR. FOREIGN J2.35. CANADIAN $2.20. SINGLE COPIES 25 CENTS 

HOW TO REMIT. Remittances should be sent by Check, Express Order or Postal Money Order, payable to the 
American Home Economics Association. Currency, unless mailed in a registered letter, is at the sender's risk. 

NOTICE. When payment is made by check no receipt will be sent unless requested. 

CHANGE IN ADDRESS. Notice of change in address should be sent Two Weeks before the date of issue on which 
the change is to take effect. The subscriber's Old Address should be clearly indicated in addition to the New Address. 

AMERICAN HOME ECONOMICS ASSOCIATION 1211 Cathedral St., Baltimore, Md. 

The Journal op Home EcONOincs is on sale jt John Wanamaker's, Philadelphia; The Old Comer Book Store, Boston; 
A. C. McClurg's, Chicago; Baltimore News Company, Baltimore; Woodward and Lothrop, Washington 



JOURXAL OF HOME F.COXOMICS—ADVERTISEMEXTS 

Keep Your Baked 
Foods Fresh 

You can bake more at a time w^hen 
you use Royal Baking Powder, and 
keep it fresh longer because it is in 
the nature of pure Cream of Tartar 
Baking Powder to keep baked foods 
fresh. This is only one of the reasons 
why so many women use 

ROYAL 

Baking Powder 

Absolutely Pure 

Made from Cream of Tartar derived from grapes 

Royal Contains No Alum — 

Leaves No Bitter Taste 



In writing advertisers, please mention Journal of Home Economics 



THE 

Journal of Home Economics 

Vol. XI OCTOBER, 1919 No. 10 

HOW TO MAKE HOME ECONOMICS WORK FUNCTION' 

HELEN LEE DAVIS 
Professor 0} Household Art, Oregon Agriailtural College, Corvallis 

In considering the topic "How to Make Home Economics Work 
Function" we should ask ourselves these questions: First, what is the 
place of home economics in the education and development of the child, 
what is its purpose, of what value should it be? Second, is it fulfilling 
its purpose, are these values being realized or are the results disap- 
pointing? Third, if they are not satisfactory, what are the reasons; 
where are the weak points and what suggestions can we ofifer for making 
the work function as it should? 

Should not the purpose of home economics work be two-fold? Should 
it not aim to make more intelligent homemakers and better women 
citizens, thus being of direct help to young women in their own life 
experiences, and at the same time should it not vitalize their education, 
and train their minds and intellects? 

Our home economics work should prove these values. It should 
make more truly capable and intelligent women, women who are sym- 
pathetically awake to the difficulties of others and to problems of social 
welfare, women who are ready and able to take up and bear their share 
of the duties of life. If it is functioning educationally it should help to 
shape their attitude of mind, their habits of thinking, their powers of 
reasoning, their standards of appreciation, their bases of choice. It 
should be of value in controlling their conduct. 

' Given at the Inland Empire Teachers Association, Spokane, Washington, .\pril 3, 
1919, and at the Oregon Home Economics Association Meeting, Portland, Oregon, May 
17, 1919. 

423 



424 THE joxTKNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [October 

With these aims and purposes in mind can we conscientiously claim 
that home economics work the country over is functioning as it should? 
Do the young women as they go out from our schools carry into their 
lives, or into the communities in which they are working, the principles 
of scientific management taught them in school? Do they work more 
efficiently? Do they choose foods wisely for themselves and for others? 
Are they able to select and prepare food properly for sick people as well 
as for those in health? Do they have a skill and knowledge which will 
enable them wisely to feed children, or a large number of working men; 
to serve a dainty artistic luncheon to a few friends, or to manage a big 
dinner for a large group of people? In every case do they consider cost 
and amount of work? Are they able with a small amount of money to 
furnish a home which is simple, dignified, restful, comfortable, and yet 
aesthetic? Can they manage that home at moderate cost? Have 
they not only developed the ability to sew and construct; but have 
they a knowledge which will make them wise choosers? Do they pos- 
sess a knowledge of materials, their proper value and use? Do they 
dress appropriately, becomingly, artistically? Do they understand 
the hygiene of clothing, its importance as a factor in maintaining health, 
and do they know how to take the proper care of clothing? Do they 
know the value of money and the need of reasonable economy in spend- 
ing it; can they interpret a dollar in terms of work? Have they a 
larger comprehension of what money means, and better habits in regard 
to spending it so that the results of the outlay may give more satisfac- 
tion than they have given in the past? 

Have they developed a feeling for good Hne, good form, good propor- 
tions, good colors and combinations so that they will desire those things 
in their own clothes, in their homes, in their everyday surroundings? 
Have they developed an appreciation, an understanding of the work 
of the masses, a sympathy for the worker, a respect for honest labor, 
a spirit of social usefulness which will make itself felt in any com- 
munity in which they are placed? Do they as consumers and shoppers 
realize their ethical obligations with reference to the hfe and occupations 
of workers? 

I think that we shall have to acknowledge that this training which 
the schools are attempting to give does not function in the students' 
lives nor in the communities which they represent as we feel that it 
should; the work of the school does not have the vital relationship with 
the immediate world in which the child Hves that it ought to have. 



1919] HOW TO M.4.KE HOME ECONOMICS WORK FUNCTION 425 

Many of the children do not develop the skill and technique which 
we should like to see developed, and fewer yet realize or attain the edu- 
cational value which is embodied in the work. 

Why? We should be asking ourselves the question — Why? 

A few possible reasons, a few suggestions, I wish to present for dis- 
cussion. WTiile developing technique, knowledge of processes, skill in 
manipulation, have we emphasized the educational values as much as 
we might, as much as we should have? Do we in the grades, high 
school, or even in our higher institutions of learning, make adequate 
provisions for the elements of thought content and appreciation? In 
all home economics subjects there is, we realize, a rich body of knowledge 
and material for appreciation of values and worths which we call liberal 
education or culture, but, partly because of the recent demand for a 
higher degree of skill and technical eiEciency in the industrial worker 
and partly because motor development has been made an end point, 
relatively small provision has been made for these elements of thought 
content and appreciation. They have been largely by-products. The 
vocational motive has dominated the work. 

For instance, in the sewing classes in our schools today are we giving 
proper emphasis to the textile side of the work? Do the children learn 
the extent of the textile industries, their history, their commercial and 
industrial geography, their relation to fine arts? Do they know any- 
thing of the Hves of the workers in the industries and of their further 
social relationships to the children of the school itself? Is their judgment 
trained to estimate values in materials, to appreciate the art element 
in all textile products? Are they more intelligent choosers, wiser 
buyers? In the food work do the children realize the conditions under 
which the preparation and manufacture of different foods are accom- 
plished; the scientific elements involved in these processes? Are they 
made to realize the importance of hygienic consideration of both foods 
and clothing? Do they sense the vast significance of the great army 
of workers engaged in the preparation and manufacture, distribution 
and storage of all our food products, and have they developed an ap- 
preciation of the meaning of these industries to the individual workers? 

It is out of such work that our young people will develop larger in- 
terests in present world peoples and their activities; therefore I would 
offer as one suggestion for the better functioning of home economics 
educationally, that more emphasis be placed upon the rich body of 
thought content and knowledge contained in our home economics work. 



426 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [October 

The field offers material for study within the range of capacity and 
within the appreciation of every grade in the elementary school. 

We must realize that the utilitarian value is not the only object of home 
economics training, that those interested in promoting education today 
are trying to make the school room work as much as possible a training 
to prepare the pupils for actual life conditions; so while the construc- 
tion of garments, and the preparation of food is an important part of 
the work, other phases of cultural and educational value should be in- 
troduced and carried with it, the subject matter being adapted to the 
age, the needs, the development, and the knowledge of the children. 

We often hear this statement, "I cannot give very much of that 
work. The students are not interested in it, they do not enjoy it. 
The work in our school is elective and if I require much of that work 
the students will not elect it." This brings me to another point which 
I wish to open for discussion, namely, our methods of teaching. Have 
our modern methods in education been taken over and used in the teach- 
ing of home economics subjects as they have been in other lines of work? 
Are our home economics teachers as alert in trying out new methods, 
in keeping up with the yearly advance in methods of teaching? When 
the sociahzed recitation work came in as an effective, modern educa- 
tional method it was at first thought possible only for certain courses, 
such as history or EngUsh. Gradually teachers realized its value and 
today it is being successfully used in most of our grade and high school 
subjects. Teachers of home economics were slow in adopting it, but 
finally our more progressive ones, aiming to meet the awakening inter- 
ests of pupils and interested in the mental development of the children, 
began to use it in their class and laboratory work. Those teachers 
today recognize its value in training the mind, in arousing the social 
conscience and in awakening the sense of responsibility. 

The "Problem-solving" method of instruction followed. Educators 
today claim' that class-room work and laboratory exercises if most 
effectively taught, should grow out of problems. These problems are 
chosen to make a personal appeal, to be of interest to the pupils 
and to be typical of problems which confront people in everyday life. 
In the solving of these problems, reflective, purposive thinking and rea- 
soning on the part of the students are called for. The teacher's duty 
in assisting and stimulating pupils in problem solving is to define the 
problem carefully and keep it clearly before the pupils, to assist them in 
analyzing the problem, in recalling as many related ideas as possible; 



1919] HOW TO MAKE HOME ECONOMICS WORK FUNCTION 427 

to aid them in correlating facts and principles gained from their pre\dous 
knowledge that may bear upon the present question; to lead them to 
criticise the suggestions recalled ; to eliminate those which have no bear- 
ing on the problem, to select those which do; to organize the material 
as it is given, using outhnes, tabulations, graphic representations, and 
other methods. Do you see the educational value in such a method of 
teaching if well done? Educators have found this reflective, purposive 
thinking and the development of this type of mental activity extremely 
important. They reaHze that conditions of life both for society as a 
whole and for individuals are continually changing and the ability to 
deal with new problems and new situations should be developed early. 

Again home economics teachers adopted this method slowly, but 
those who are using it today realize that much of their work in the 
grades and high school may be based on typical problems of ever>' day 
life, for example: "What foods will give me the best investment for 
my money?" furnishes a problem on which may be based a lesson on 
comparative economic values. "What foods are best suited to differ- 
ent members of my family?" should prepare a class for a lesson on 
dietetics. "What food materials are necessary in order to keep my 
body strong and to help it to grow?" will give one opportunity for a 
lesson on food principles. "Why I should pay more for linen than 
cotton," would lead naturally to a lesson on costs of materials. "In 
what ways do clothes affect my character?" will interest a class in a 
discussion of the ethics of dress. "How can I keep my clothes looking 
attractive?" "What furnishings do I need for my bedroom in order 
to have it attractive, convenient, and sanitary?" and "How can I best 
distribute a certain income for food, clothing, shelter, recreation?" 
would furnish problems for lessons on care of clothing, house decoration, 
and house administration. 

Most of our home economics work can easily grow out of problems 
which will be of real interest to the pupils and at the same time will 
be typical of those that confront people in every day hfe. Our methods 
of teaching, then, should be up-to-date. Our home economics teachers 
should be educated women, women with a good science and art back- 
ground, with good technical knowledge and good pedagogical training 
and abihty, women who are examples of what they teach, who exem- 
plify in their own hves the underlying principles of home economics; 
who carry into their dress, into the management of their work and lives 
and into their civic and social interests the doctrines they teach. 



428 THE joTXRNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [October 

Another means of making our home economics work function in the 
lives and homes of our girls is by creating less artificial conditions for 
the work. A few of our more progressive schools are already realizing 
that the small quantit}^ cookery must be eliminated, that our equipment 
must more nearly approximate home equipment, our laboratories be 
more nearly like our home kitchens. Food principles and processes 
must be taught by placing the food work on a meal basis, that basis 
being determined by the teacher's knowledge of the home conditions 
and of the financial status of the families in that community, so that 
attractive and wholesome meals are planned which come within the 
means of any group. 

Another reason why our home economics work is not functioning 
better is because not enough time in school can be given to the work 
for the students to have sufficient practice to develop the skill in tech- 
nique and the speed which is necessary for efiicient work. Very little 
skill in bread-making is developed from one or two bread lessons. Very 
little skill in dressmaking is acquired from the making of one garment 
of a type. It takes practice to make perfect. The "home project" 
work as a solution to this problem has been agitated for years. It is 
being used in many schools with varying degrees of success and in many 
others it has been tried and rejected. The home project work is difficult 
to manage, there are serious difficulties connected with it, such as the 
problem of properly supervising it, the opportunity for dishonest re- 
ports; but it seems to' be the only solution to this problem of giving 
the students more practice in applying the processes and principles 
developed in class room work. It deserves more study and thought 
and time on the part of teachers and administrators. 

Another criticism that we often hear of the home economics work is 
that the students are able to secure successful results in the food labora- 
tory or to make an attractive garment in the sewing laboratory but 
that they seem unable to do it outside of school. This is partly due to 
the fact that they have not practice enough under supervision to de- 
velop initiative, independence, confidence, and skill in doing, and partly 
to the fact that the instruction has been largely the giving of individual 
help rather than the logical development of the processes and principles 
which underlie any particular phase of the work. 

For instance, when a class finishes a course in undergarment making 
should they not have mastered the processes of undergarment making 
and be able not only to duplicate the particular garment on which they 
may have made application of certain processes but be able to make 



1919] HOW TO 1L\KE HOME ECONOMICS WORK FXJNCTION 429 

any tjpe of undergarment? General class presentations should be made, 
then, of even' process and principle and the whole class should be held 
responsible for them. 

One other question we should be asking ourselves is this: "Do stu- 
dents who are especially poor in some particular phase of the work, who 
have very little knowledge of it and practically no skill in doing it, 
get more or less training in that work than the students who already 
possess more abihty and greater knowledge of that particular phase of 
the work?" For instance: In meal service, if guests are invited, is it 
not the tendency often on the part of the teacher to have the person 
who is most capable in serving do that work, to have the food prepared 
by those who the teacher knows will make a success of it in order that the 
meal may go off well, while the students who need that training the most 
are kept at work on some phase of the work that they already know? 
To take an example from clothing, do the students who know the least 
about fitting, who are especially poor in it, get the opportunity to do 
extra work in fitting or are the students who have more skill along that 
line called upon whenever the occasion for more work arises? Or do 
we still have teachers who do the most of the fitting themselves, be- 
cause it saves time and the results are better and the students prefer it, 
the students going out from those classes with little more knowledge of 
fitting than when they entered? 

Are we adapting our work to the needs of our students, to their age, 
their ability, their knowledge? Are we adapting it to meet changing 
conditions — economic, social, intellectual? If so then we carmot be 
giving the same course year after year though that may be the easy 
thing to do. For instance, with the textile situation changed as it was 
by war conditions what changes did that make last year in your work 
in textiles and clothing? Did not every conscientious home economics 
teacher, in order that her clothing work might function, give added 
emphasis to the economics of dress? Did she not feel the importance 
of discussing the planning of economical wardrobes, economy in buying, 
means of making clothes last longer, the uses of old clothes; and did 
she not in her laboratory work stress repair and remodeling? 

It is only by adapting our work and meeting changes of this kind 
that we can hope to estabhsh that vital relationship between it and the 
immediate world in which the child fives, that we can hope to have 
this work function as it should in the every day fife of the students and 
in the communities of which they are a part. 



430 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [October 

A COURSE FOR HOME DEMONSTRATION AGENTS; 
THE n^LINOIS PLANi 

MAMIE BUNCH 
State Leader of Illinois 

With the development of the Home Demonstration Service in Illinois 
it became apparent that the experience gained from our pioneering 
should be made available as a guide and time saver to beginners in 
the extension field. 

We have found that certain terms need definition, that certain mat- 
ters of administration may be learned before hand rather than forced 
upon one through experience, that certain sociological and economic 
conditions are common to many fields; that certain pedagogical and 
psychological principles are common to both class and extension instruc- 
tion though the method of application is altogether different in class 
room and field work. These matters may all be made available to candi- 
dates for extension service, through class instruction. 

The machine through which the home demonstration agent functions 
has been sufficiently developed so that candidates may become familiar 
with it through class work. The relation of the Home Bureau, her 
special part of the machine, to the entire States Relations Service 
mechanism should be learned by the agent before she goes into the field. 
It is equally necessary for her to learn her relation to the Home Bureau 
and she should become familiar with its organization and operations. 

Since the Home Bureau in Illinois is somewhat different in organiza- 
tion and management from that of other states, it may be well to men- 
tion certain points. We feel that the Home Bureau affords an excellent 
opportunit}' for our women to acquire some knowledge of the business 
of citizenship; accordingly the management of the Home Bureau is 
placed in the hands of the women who compose its membership. The 
Home Bureau of each county is incorporated under the state law; the 
women pay a membership fee; the treasurer is bonded, and the business 
of the bureau is conducted according to the constitution and by-laws 
suggested by our organizer and adopted by each bureau, with such 
local modifications as may be necessary. The president is selected with 
the idea of securing not only a good presiding officer but a woman who 
can win the cooperation of other organizations. The vice-president, in 

' Presented at the meeting of the Extension Section, Twelfth Annual Meeting of the 
American Home Economics Association, Blue Ridge, X. C, June, 1919. 



1919] HOME DEMONSTRATION AGENt's COURSE 431 

addition to the usual duties of the office, has charge of the social affairs 
and is selected accordingly. The secretary has charge of the publicity; 
so journalistic ability is considered the basis of choice for this office. 
The treasurer is preferably a business woman. 

The work of the bureau is outlined under five main heads; food, cloth- 
ing, health and sanitation, household management, and neighborhood 
interests, with a county chairman for each, and a sub-chairman in each 
township. We have, at present, seventeen home bureaus so organized, 
with a membership of 11,000 representative, rural women. 

Within the limits set by the state program as presented by the or- 
ganizer the bureau decides what it wishes to do and where it wishes to 
place special emphasis; that is, theoretically it does, for often a county 
is so content, that except in the case of a few leaders there is no feeling 
of need of anything beyond what it has been used to, and the agent or 
the organizer has to waken a community to a recognition of a need for 
improvement. However, the local bureau decides finally what is to be 
done. The bureau selects its own adviser or agent for a term of 
three years from a group of candidates recommended by the Extension 
Appointments Committee at the University. This committee consists 
of the vice-directors of the Extension Service, the senior members of 
the house staff in foods, in textiles, and in administration. 

The committee requires some definite qualifications for county 
agents in Illinois. Chief among these are a degree with major in home 
economics from a four year course in a university or recognized techni- 
cal college, a pleasing personality, ability to work with people, and a 
knowledge of life and maturity of judgment indicated by at least five 
years' experience in teaching or in lecturing and demonstrating or in 
actual farm life. Preference is given, other things being equal, to 
candidates brought up on a farm. Candidates likely to meet these 
requirements are invited to attend our summer school. 

We regard the extension field as being of vital importance to the whole 
home economics movement, for through it we not only find problems 
for laboratory solution but prove the service of the laboratory con- 
tributions toward simplifying methods, and developing better stand- 
ards of home life; therefore the greatest care is used in the selection of 
our field workers. 

Many candidates for extension work are moved by a genuine impulse 
to serve but have a very superficial conception of either the require- 
ments of the field or their own particular fitness for the type of work 



432 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [October 

necessaty. Others are merely in search of a job, but it is evident that 
only applicants who have an appreciation of the importance of the work 
and the qualifications required for success in it will meet the approval 
of this committee. 

When girls from our own college show an aptitude for extension 
service we advise them in selecting their elective courses to have jour- 
nalism, rural sociology, pubhc speaking, and physical training in mind 
as particular assets. 

The first essential for successful extension service is the recognition 
of the ultimate aim of extension work. Miss Bane, our organizer, at 
a recent Home Bureau conference defined this aim as follows: To de- 
velop every home into an institution which is economically sound, 
mechanically convenient, physically healthful, morally wholesome, men- 
tally stimulating, spiritually inspiring, socially responsible, a center of 
unselfish love. 

To attain this aim the housewife must realize that housekeeping is a 
means to an end- — a means to secure a finer development of indi\'idual 
life and more wholesome contribution to community welfare. 

It is the task of the home demonstration agent to bring to her field 
the contributions our college classes and laboratories have found to be 
of genuine worth from science, art, system, and invention, to aid in 
this development of home life. 

The Home Bureau needs direction in determining what is most 
worth while, and in so using the contributions of home economics in the 
solution of its problems as to make the simple necessary tasks so in- 
teresting in the performance that housekeeping becomes a joy rather 
than a drudgerj-, and that homemaking becomes a patriotic service of 
the highest order. 

The second essential is the view point. You may recall the story of 
the three artists who, strolling through the countrj'side together, on 
reaching the brow of a hill, exclaimed in unison at the beauty of a bit 
of landscape before them. One said, "Let us each sketch it and com- 
pare our sketches." They did so. The result was three totally differ- 
ent pictures. One was delighted with a particularly symmetrical tree 
in the near foreground. In his sketch, the tree was drawn with great 
fidelity, and the meadows, hills, and clouds subordinated to the splendid 
tree. One saw particularly the wonderful play of hght and shadow on 
the meadows, and that was the outstanding feature of his sketch. The 
other was impressed by the breadth of the vista, the broad open spaces 



1919] HOME DEMONSTR.\TION AGENt's COURSE 433 

and the wonderful gradient of tones defining the ranges of hills in the 
distance. In his picture, each detail was depicted in due relation to 
the whole scene. The tree was there but as an incident. The light and 
shadow were caught also but only as they emphasized the larger view. 

So with equal scholastic preparation, each home demonstration agent 
will interpret the needs of her particular field in the light of her own 
experience, aptitude, and sensitive reaction; therefore the high lights 
in the vision as it unfolds to the individual consciousness of each pro- 
spective agent need comparison as to value, and the medium through 
which results are to be obtained must be studied. A study of the rela- 
tive values of local problems in their relation to the whole scheme is 
also essential. Some of these typical conditions will come up for analy- 
sis in our school. For instance, in one rich county where the child 
welfare work had discovered, through its weighing and measuring, 
an astonishing number of subnormal children, the Home Bureau se- 
lected an ad\iser who had had special training in nutrition. The prob- 
lem of bringing these children up to normal through proper diet, fur- 
nished her first point of contact with her county, and within a short 
time she was directing dietaries in fifty families who reported to her 
each week. She thus got her contact with her people by demonstrating 
the value of diet in disease, and so secured an interest in our chief food 
project, the planning of meals for normal diet, where the emphasis is 
placed upon wisdom in selection and simplicity in the preparation and 
service of food, the basis for all our food demonstrations, other than 
in food conservation projects. 

A recognition of the fact that each community has in it all the ability 
necessary to its own development, lies back of every item of extension 
policy in IlUnois. It is not our task to do any community's work for 
it, but to help discover its needs and to show the ways by which the 
community may meet those needs. 

Many good teachers and demonstrators are poor executives. They 
find it easier to do than to get others to do. This is often due to lack 
of systematic mechanical plans for a distribution of effort. The Home 
Bureau usually has among its members representatives from all the 
woman's organizations in the community. The home demonstration 
agent must discover the contribution each group represented can make 
to the general project of home improvement she has in hand. Examples 
from the field indicate methods used in obtaining cooperation of such 
a nature as to distribute effort and responsibility. Practical plans for 



434 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [October 

executive details have been developed to a considerable extent and will 
be presented in class work for the benefit of candidates, for a success- 
ful home demonstration agent must be a good executive. 

An agent may present an excellent lecture or demonstration, but 
may not know how to follow up her instruction and discover how it is 
being utilized in the homes of her patrons; but, since the Home Bureau 
is valuable to a member just in proportion to the effort she makes to 
apply its teaching to her daily tasks, one of the first things an agent 
must acquire is the ability to get her patrons to practice her teaching 
and report the results. As an aid to this end a definite plan or project 
which the members have had a part in making has been found most 
helpful. The technical details of forming these working plans may be 
acquired. The necessary points must be discovered and the effort 
distributed in such a way as to interest the greatest number. It re- 
quires practice to state clearly and simply a practical plan of work in 
project form. An agent should acquire some facihty in writing practi- 
cal projects before she goes into the field to write one with her bureau. 
This we take up in our training classes. 

Women who come to the extension field from teaching are not as a 
rule particularly clever in organizing their offices. In entering a new 
field they do not know just how to file bits of information which may be 
necessary for later use. They need convenient record forms. Ex- 
perience in the field has shown that much time and energy may be 
saved, and much effort more wisely directed by teaching agents these 
phases of office organization before sending them into a county. 

The bibhography of the extension field and publicity methods may 
likewise be taught and become a part of the prospective agent's pro- 
fessional capital. 

The women of the Home Bureau are not much accustomed to business 
or the necessary equipment for carrying on the business of an office; 
therefore a knowledge of necessary office equipment and the items of a 
probable budget of annual expenditures for the ofiice form another 
essential bit of the agent's capital stock. 

The technique of demonstration teaching must be acquired. Com- 
mercial firms have been quick to realize the spectacular advertising 
value of the demonstration method. Many of the commercial demon- 
strators are clever, alert, attractive business women who have become 
very skilful in presenting their particular subjects. They achieve good 
looking results and talk glibly if not always accurately while they work. 



1919] HOME DEMONSTR.A.TION AGENT's COURSE 435 

The average woman does not discriminate between the entertaining 
advertiser and the instructor. Our demonstration agent with at least 
five lines of demonstrations must compete with these commercial 
demonstrators who have become adept manipulators in one line; so it 
is essential that all our agents acquire a fine technique. Thej' must 
show not only an attractive finished product, they must determine also 
what demonstrations best set forth the principles they wish to establish. 
The technique of demonstration teaching therefore is made prominent 
in lecture, discussion, laboratory, and actual field work with rural 
units of the Champaign County Home Bureau before whom demonstra- 
tions in food, clothing, home nursing, and household equipment are 
made with plans for securing results in the homes represented. 

Our work in IlHnois is developing slowly but we think it on a safe 
permanent basis. As soon as we find what seems wise to recommend 
we confer with our bureaus and their agents concerning it. Members 
of the executive boards of the Home Bureau are always invited to our 
home demonstration conferences and we find their presence and interest 
of great value to the work of their respective counties. 

Having considered the various items cited in this paper, we are pre- 
senting to candidates for extension service, in our six weeks summer 
course, studies in rural life as it is; the relation of rural wealth and in- 
come to improvement; the relation of agricultural agencies to rural 
problems; the organization of the extension movement (legal basis, 
financial policy, relation to other agencies); existing organizations in 
Illinois, their nature and scope; needs of the rural community, educa- 
tional, religious, sanitary, social; organization of Home Bureau work in 
a county; the pedagogy of extension teaching; methods of extension 
teaching; office organization and management, records, bibliography, 
illustrative material, publicity, reports; project, (writing, developing, 
and reporting projects); the technique of demonstration with actual 
field work under staff specialists. 

If funds and properly equipped agents can be found, we will establish 
other Home Bureaus as fast as the sentiment of a county crystallizes 
into an organization of housewives willing not only to support the work 
financially but to receive and apply in their homes the instruction given. 

We have learned how timely now is the instruction of Paul to the 
Galatians. "Let every man prove his own work, then shall he have 
rejoicing in himself alone and not in another. Let him that is taught in 
the word communicate unto him that teacheth in all good things." 



436 THE jotJRNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [October 

RECONSTRUCTION IN RELATION TO HOME ECONOMICS 

ALICE RAVENHILL 
Formerly, Director School of Home Economics, State AgrictUtural College, Logan, Utah 

Why is there so insistent a call at this juncture for the reconstruction 
of the national life and in what ways does this call affect home economics? 

In the first place, the disintegrating forces associated with a great war 
have been active in four continents for as many years. Among the 
chief of these may be mentioned the premature death of millions of 
vigorous young men, a reduced birthrate, and, in many places, an in- 
creased rate of child mortality. Much sorrow and suffering have vastly 
diminished the nervous energy of adults; grievous famines and plagues 
still further undermine human vitality, while multiple minor disloca- 
tions are associated with the resultant shortage of food, fuel, clothing, 
and recreation. An exhausted world calls for reinvigoration, in which 
process judicious reconstruction must play an important part. 

In the second place, the magnificent patriotism which expressed itself 
during these years as the "will to die" for the world's well being must 
now assume another, but equally praiseworthy form, namely, so to live 
that the finest type of humanity may be the result. Believing as we do 
that the object of home economics is the right care and conduct of 
human life in the home, this dual appeal comes to us with intense ur- 
gency. It is our pri\alege and our responsibility to respond to this 
demand, to safeguard human life at its source and to maintain it through- 
out its existence at the highest level of efficiency. 

I propose, therefore, to discuss my subject very briefly from two points 
of view: (1) the reconstruction which springs from a recognition of weak 
points in the original structure; (2) the reconstruction necessitated by a 
call for expansion, in order to accommodate increased demands on space. 
The first form, namely, a recognition of weak points and the deter- 
mination to reinforce them, calls for considerable courage, much tact, 
and a delicate sense of relative values. It is not alone that various 
crumbling precepts menace the foundations of our subject matter, but 
the erection of far stronger supporting buttresses of practice are essential 
to the endurance of the fabric. Can we truthfully maintain, for in- 
stance, that the exponents of home economics exemplify consistently in 
their lives the application of the principles they inculcate? For ex- 
ample, can students be expected to display profound conviction of really 



1919] RECONSTBtTCTIOX IK EELATIOX TO HOilE ECONOMICS 437 

vital truths when the teachers of right living feel no shame, but rather 
glory, in the consumption of hasty, ill-planned meals, in the curtail- 
ment of necessary sleep, in the maintenance of home or office at tem- 
peratures known to be detrimental to human efficiency, in the sub- 
servience to fashions described as conducive to "increased sexual crime?" 
Courage to re\ise social conventions, when shown to be detrimental, to 
reform age-old habits where proved devitalizing, is essential to rein- 
force the weak joints in the harness of humanity, to which home eco- 
nomics practice should be one of the contributory factors. 

It is with the object of encouraging such consistency of practice that 
from now onwards a gold medal will be conferred annually at the Utah 
Agricultural College on that member of the graduating class in home 
economics who gives evidence of the most sustained and intelligent 
apphcation in her daily life of the principles, to the study of which she 
has devoted four years. The award of this "Lois Hayball medal" will 
be made by a committee which includes representatives of the student 
body as well as of the School of Home Economics and the college phy- 
sician. It is an example which may be fitly followed by all colleges, 
for by this means the scope and methods of the home economics course 
would be subjected to valuable scrutiny and recurrent criticism. To 
quote Hugo Miinsterberg's dictum that "every science must reach a 
certain stage of maturity before the process of apphcation is in place" 
cannot, at this era constitute an excuse for the builders of home eco- 
nomics. Now is the moment when there must be adequate evidence 
of that profound faith in the truth of the theory professed which results 
in the expression thereof in every phase of daily existence. 

A too conservative respect for pioneer workers is apt to exist among 
those by whom this work of reconstruction should be undertaken, a 
respect which hesitates to discard material to which undue value was 
assigned under the glamour of early enthusiasms. Energy, too, is often 
lacking to substitute sound scientific facts for widespread popular 
fallacies; thus the task is neglected, because it is uncongenial and 
distasteful. 

If faith is founded on facts it should show itself by its works. The 
leakages of health, money, time, energy, which still characterize stu- 
dents of home economics equally with their fellows must be stopped. 
Leakages such as careless diet, bad taste and unwise choice in dress, 
extravagance in details of expenditure, lack of regular exercise, faith in 
patent preparations of unknown drugs rather than in the cultivation of 



438 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [October 

the body's innate capacity for resistance; all threaten the stability of a 
structure primarily designed for the advancement of health and the 
right regulation of daily life in the home. 

That the destructive tendencies of modern existence must be con- 
trolled and neutralized by the constructive intelligence of trained home- 
makers is an accepted platitude. It is the will to do, the exertion of 
necessary effort, which are wanting. 

The second aspect of reconstruction, that of expansion, calls for no 
less urgent emphasis in the field of home economics. All unconsciously 
the tendency has been to restrict rather than to expand its scope; to 
limit its subject matter to the three groups of domestic needs (food, 
clothing, and shelter) rather than to enlarge its borders to embrace 
every aspect of human life exhibited in the home. The relation of each 
home and its occupants to the community, nation, and world at large, 
needs constant emphasis if young people are to perceive how far-reach- 
ing and enduring in its effects is each humble, domestic duty. In a 
country where a premium is placed on individuality and where each 
home is considered the concern solely of its owner, this communal re- 
sponsibility calls for very forcible inculcation. 

Reconstruction has been defined as the rebuilding of the life of human- 
ity. Popular sentiment accepts the home as the cradle of human life 
and yet sees no contradiction of terms when statistics demonstrate the 
annual loss in this "cradle" of at least 300,000 babies within a few 
months of their birth. There is no evidence of public or domestic 
shame when the facts are made known that the homes of this country 
are responsible for about fifteen million physically defective children of 
school age, and for the fact that thirty per cent of the young men of an 
age for military service were incapable of response to the call. It is in 
these "homes" also that tens of thousands of young children die each year 
from entirely preventable causes; it is from them that a steady stream 
of recruits is contributed to the army of criminals and insane. What a 
reflection on the teachers and students of home economics! For it is 
the parents of the population who are responsible for the serious dimi- 
nution of national vitality, for the menace of so many low-powered 
lives, for the existence of so many incompetent citizens. 

The whole conception of home economics must be expanded from 
that of the study of cooking, sewing, and cleaning, important as this is, 
into a realization of its actual scope — the right care and conduct of 
human life in the home. Its details of essential application must be 



1919] RECONSTRUCTION IN RELATION TO HOME ECONOMICS 439 

set in a broad frame of human needs; the rights of democracy must be 
more closely and continuously linked with its equally weighty responsi- 
bilities. 

All credit is due to the pioneers who laid the foundations of our sub- 
ject; our debt to them is heavy and can only be discharged if, in our 
turn, we extend the original framework to include the mass of material 
which has been collected since they passed their work on to our hands. 
I venture to think their \dsion would have been keen to detect the shift- 
ing of values, as fuller light floods the twilight in which they labored. 
Their con\'ictions would have spurred them to the effort called for if 
the results of modern science are to be dovetailed effectively into the 
original structure, so that it may be perfect and entire in its adaptations 
to human requirements. 

Benjamin Kidd tells us that the process of human evolution has 
passed through the individual to the social stage; an era which calls for 
the gradual perfecting of humanity by fostering every quality contribu- 
torj' to collective efficiency in all human institutions. Since the 
civilized home is the highest product of civilization, the sole test for the 
efficiency of our home economics methods must ever be the quality of 
human material produced in these homes. The application of this 
test in the present year will surely prove the most conclusive argument 
for judicious reconstruction and suitable expansion in our home eco- 
nomics methods if we, its exponents, are to respond to the world's appeal 
for reinvigoration. 



United States Commissioner of Labor Statistics states that results of 
investigation of relation of cost of living to public health show that 
"from all the evidence at hand it seems probable that [wartime] changes 
in diet have resulted beneficially rather than harmfully to the health of 
the working population. Real wages have probably not fallen. Budget 
schedules indicate a falling off in the use of meat and an increase in 
the consumption of vegetables. 



440 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [Octobcr 

CHANGES IN FATS ABSORBED BY FRIED FOODS 

SYBIL WOODRUTF AND KATHARINE BLUNT 

University oj Chicago 

The literature concerning the decomposition products of fats is 
meager. Furthermore, most of the references are of interest to the 
commercial chemist and paint manufacturer and throw no light on 
the subject of what happens to fats when foods are fried in them. 

Several investigators report changes in heated edible fats. Some results of 
Fulmer and Manchester/ which agree with those previously reported by 
Holde and Pelgry and byTortelli and Ruggeri (cited by Tolman and Munson'), 
show that the iodine number, of cottonseed oil decreases on heating for thirty 
minutes from 110.1 to 108.1 when the heating is done at 180°C, and to 106.3 
when heated at 270°. The acidity changes under similar conditions from 0.06 
per cent to 0.054 per cent and 0.880 per cent, respectively, for 180° and 270°. 
If lowering the iodine number is considered as a rough indication of o.xidation, 
and increase in acidity as due to hydrolysis, it may be seen that these two 
changes, while distinctly measurable, are not very marked. 

The first temperature (180°C.) comes within the range of temperatures or- 
dinarily used in the deep frying of foods but represents the change in oil heated 
in a test tube and not dispersed through a food. Decomposition would be 
expected to proceed at a faster rate in a fat whose surface area was thus in- 
creased. Blunt and Feenej'' found that the presence of a finely divided foreign 
substance such as flour or charcoal, lowered the temperature at which 'smoke" 
became visible in a pan of heated fat, and this fact they attributed to increased 
surface area. 

Masters and Smith'' report the changes in chemical constants of butter 
fat and cottonseed oil baked with flour as a pastry. The iodine number of 
their cottonseed oil diminished from 106.5 to 89.3 when the oil was extracted 
from some over-browned, thin pastry. This was the most marked of the 
numerous changes they reported. The changes in the butter fat were some- 
what less than in the cottonseed oil, and the initial acidity had also been less. 

' Fulmer, E., and Manchester, T., The Effect of Heat Upon the Physical and Chemical 
Constants of Cottonseed Oil. Jour. Amcr. Chem. Sac, 30 (1908), p. 1477. 

- ToLman, L. M., and Munson, L. S., Olive Oil and Its Substitutes. U. S. Dept. Agr., 
Btir. Chem. Bui. No. 77. 

' Blunt, K., and Feeney, C. M., The Smoldng Temperatures of Edible Fats. Jour. 
Home Econ., 7 (1915), p. 53S. 

* Masters, H., and Smith, L., The Changes in the Character of Fats During the Process 
of Cooking. Analyst, 39 (1914), p. 347. 



1919] CH.^'GES IN FATS ABSORBED BY FRIED FOODS 441 

It was not possible, they reported, to make a statement as to the mechanism 
of the changes, though hydrolysis certainly did not take place to any great 
extent. The changes were slight unless the pastry was very thin or over- 
browned. 

While it is an accepted fact that acrolein is formed during the decomposi- 
tion of fats by heat and is present in the smoke of scorching fat, the literature 
does not reveal any proof that acrolein has been isolated from fried foods nor 
even that substances giving an aldehyde reaction have been demonstrated. 
Acrolein is such a reactive compound that failure to isolate it would not be 
surprising, and even though it were present in fried foods, it would probably 
be there in very small quantities. 

The literature on the amount of fat absorbed in frying is also meager. 
Holmes and Lang° state, though without giving experimental data, that there 
is a different temperature for each of the various facts at which the least ab- 
sorption takes place in doughnuts. Williams and Gray* state that greasiness 
is somewhat dependent upon the kind of fat used but much more upon the 
food to be cooked and the temperature employed. The amount of cottonseed 
oil absorbed by doughnuts fried for five minutes at 200°C. is reported by 
McKee^ as varying from 34 per cent in a standard recipe to 45 per cent in a 
very rich one. 

Whether fats so altered in their chemical constants by high temperature 
are utilized by the body in the same way as unheated fats is a question which 
very naturally arises. Langworthy and Holmes* report high digestibiUty of 
some animal and vegetable fats in which heating was carefully avoided; and 
Smith, Miller, and Hawk' found hydrogenated cottonseed oil to be as satis- 
factorily utilized by normal adults as lard. The latter investigators fed their 
fats in fried potatoes. 

All the points mentioned thus far are ones which need investigation — 
the amounts of different fats absorbed by various types of fried foods 
under different conditions of time and temperature; the kind and extent 
of decomposition which takes place in the fats absorbed; the effect of 

' Holmes, A. D., and Lang, H. L., Fats and Their Economical Use in the Home. U. S. 
Dept. Agr. Bui. No. 469 (1916). 

• Williams, A. W., and Gray, C. E., Fats and Oils in Cookery. Univ. of III. Bid. No. 47 
(1917). 

'McKee, M. C, Fat Absorption in Frying Doughnuts. Jour. Home Econ., 10 (1918), 
p. 18. 

'Langworthy, C. F., and Hohnes, A. D., Digestibility of Some Animal Fats. U. S. 
Dept. Ai;r. Bid. No. 310 (1915); and Digestibility of Some Vegetable Fats. U. S. Dept. 
Agr. Bui. No. 505 (1917). 

' Smith, C. A., Miller, R. J., and Hawk, P. B., Studies on the Relative Digestibility and 
Utilization by the Human Body of Lard and Hydrogenated Vegetable Oil. Sour. Biol, 
em.- 22 (1915), p. 505. 



442 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [October 

this decomposition on the digestibility of the fat. This paper gives 
some experimental data on the first two points. 

EXPERIMENTAL 

In the experiments described in this paper, potato chips and a flour 
mixture were fried in lard and in Wesson oil to determine the amount 
of fat absorbed and the extent of decomposition in the fat taken up 
during frying. The effect of changing the time and temperature of 
frying was noted. The degree of decomposition was indicated by 
changes noted in the fats extracted from the fried foods as compared 
with the original fat. The determinations made were for iodine number, 
per cent of free fatty acid, and relative amounts of reducing substance 
(acrolein, etc.). Bulk lard of good quahty and Wesson oil were chosen 
as typical animal and vegetable fats. 

Fried Potato Chips 

Method oj cooking. Potatoes are satisfactory for frying experiments 
because, on account of their low fat content and the ease with which 
they can be thinly sliced, they offer the minimum of complications and 
the maximum of exposed surface for the absorption of fat. Sound, 
medium sized, northern grown potatoes were used, without reference to 
any special variety. 

All the frying was done in a two-quart, gray enamel sauce-pan with 
a diameter at the bottom of 6 inches; diameter at the top 8 inches; 
depth 3f inches; depth of fat 1^ inches. 

The potatoes were sliced on a potato-slicer to a thickness of 1 to 1^ 
mm. ; the sUces were laid out separately on paper toweUng until the sur- 
face water was absorbed, then turned and dried on the other side, the 
whole drying process lasting about ten minutes. The pieces were 
dropped, one at a time, into the hot fat, were turned almost continually 
with a wire egg-whisk until a medium golden brown color, then lifted 
out and drained on paper toweling. Only three to five slices could be 
fried at one time as more than this caused considerable variation in 
the temperature. 

The frying was done at three different temperatures, 170°, 190°, and 
210°C. The temperature varied only 3° above or below that recorded 
in the tables. No smoke was visible at any time during the frying in 
Wesson oil; the lard did not smoke at 170°C. but when it was being 



1919] CH.\XGES IN FATS ABSORBED BY FRIED FOODS 443 

heated to 190° for the second set of fryings, smoke became faintly visible 
at 175° and it smoked slightly during the frying at 190°. When heated 
to 210°, smoke became visible at 180° and the lard smoked violently all 
during the frying process. The same portion of fat was used for frying 
at all three temperatures and the fat drained free from sediment be- 
tween the different temperatures. The fryings at all temperatures were 
not done in one day. 

All the potato chips were presumably cooked to the same brown 
color although at some temperatures they were more evenly browned 
and of better appearance than at others, probably due in part to dif- 
ferences in the potatoes as well as to differences in temperature. The 
chips fried in lard at 170° and 190° were the best looking; those fried in 
lard at 210° and in Wesson oil at 190° and 210° were a little overbrowned 
on the edges before the center had thoroughly cooked. The chips fried 
in lard at 210° had a bitter burned taste though none of those fried in 
either fat at other temperatures had this flavor of burned fat. 

It seemed to require a longer time to reach the desired brownness in 
lard than in Wesson oil at the corresponding temperature (see table 1). 
The whole time of frying was so very brief in all cases, twenty to ninety 
seconds, that this difference would not be noticed in frying under or- 
dinary' home conditions. This same difference in time was observed in 
a second series in which slices from the same potato were used in both 
fats, the fryings done one immediately after the other and the piles of 
fried potatoes compared side by side for color. The chips fried in lard 
and in oil were identical in color and appearance, yet it required 75 
seconds to reach this color in lard and only fifty seconds in the oil (series 
II). Whether this time factor is really an important one and what the 
explanation of it may be, is not known. 

Fat absorption. After frying, the potato chips were ground in a 
mortar, spread out on watch crystals and dried to constant weight at 
50°C. The loss was calculated as moisture. The dried material was 
extracted for six hours with anhydrous ether in an Underwriter multiple 
extraction apparatus; the per cent of fat is calculated on the basis of 
undried weight. 

The amount of water in the potato chips was very small, ranging 
from a few tenths of a per cent in those fried at the highest temperatures 
to about 1.5 per cent in the ones fried at 170°. 

The fat absorption was about the same at all temperatures and in 
both fats (table 1). Absorption of the two fats differed usually by 



444 



THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS 



[October 



about 2 per cent, and the Wesson oil series showed as much variation 
within itself. The per cent of absorption in Series II, where the same 
potato was used for both fats, was 34.94 per cent in lard and 34.18 per 
cent in Wesson oil. The average absorption in Series I was 37.66 per cent. 
The average of many analyses of conmiercial chips given in Bulletin 28, 
United States Department of Agriculture is 39.8 per cent fat. 

The slight variation in fat content in the potato chips seems, there- 
fore, to depend upon differences in the absorbing power of the potatoes 
themselves rather than upon differences between the lard and Wesson 
oil or between frying at high or low temperatures. Different conclu- 
sions are drawn from the experiments on frying dough mixtures (see 
p. 449). 

TABLE 1 
Per cent of fat absorbed by fried potato chips 



SERIES 


KIND OF FAT 


PRYING 
TEMPERA- 
TURE 


TIME OF 
rEVlNG 


CHIPS 


FAT IN CHIPS 




Lard 


degrees C . 

170 
190 
210 
170 
190 
210 

170 

170 


seconds 
90 
55 
20 
50 
30 
20 

75 

50 


per cent 

1.21 
0.68 
0.10 
1.65 
1.04 
0.34 

Not de- 
termined. 

Not de- 
termined. 


per cent 

38.95 






38.18 






38.87 


I < 




36.51 






34.40 






37.10 




Lard 


34.94 


II 




34.18 









Chemical changes in extracted fats. Methods used. To determine the 
chemical changes in the fat absorbed by fried potatoes, the fat from 
large quantities of chips, about 50 grams, was extracted with anhydrous 
ether in a large Soxhlet apparatus. The changes from the original which 
were observed in the iodine number and amounts of free fatty acids and 
aldehyde substances (acrolein, etc.) were taken as a measure of the de- 
composition of the fat. The iodine number was determined with 
Hanus' solution according to standard methods given by Leach, p. 489, 
and free fatty acids, calculated as oleic acid, according to Leach, 
p. 499. (Food Inspection and Analysis). 

To show the presence of acrolein or other aldehydes and to give an 
indication of the relative amounts in the different fats, Tollen's aide- 



1919] 



CHANGES IX FATS ABSORBED BY FRIED FOODS 



445 



hyde reagent was used (see Sherman's Organic Analysis, p. 34). One 
cubic centimeter of oil or melted lard was introduced into a slender 10 
cc. graduate, kept warm in hot water. Tollen's reagent was added up 
to the 5 cc. mark, the tube shaken, and the relative amount of blackening 
noted after ten minutes. The whole series of fats was examined at one 
time to get comparati\e differences. The tube showing the most re- 
duction, an almost immediate blackening, was called 10 and the others 
rated according to their amounts of reduction. These marked differ- 
ences were noticeable in the aqueous layer in the tube. The fat layer 




Fig. 1. Showing Rel.\tive .\molnts of Reducing Substances (.-Vcrolein, etc.) in 
S.i^MPLES OF Fats. Tested with Tollen's Reagent 

In each series: 1, fresh unused fat; 2, fat in pan after all fryings; 3, extracted from 
potatoes fried at 170°; 4. extracted from potatoes fried at 190°; 5, extracted from potatoes 
fried at 210°. 

in all the lard tubes was a dirty tan color and that in all the Wesson 
oil tubes a black-brown. The ether extract of 120 grams of raw potato 
was also tested and showed a noticeable but slight reduction of Tollen's. 
Since each cubic centimeter of extracted fat, however, contained the 
reducing substance of only about 7 grams of potato, the reduction of 
the potatoes themselves may be ignored. 

Results. None of the changes in the extracted fats — iodine number, 
acidity, and aldehyde substances — was very marked and all three ran 
fairly parallel (table 2 and figure 1). 



446 



THE JOURNAE OF HOME ECONOMICS 



[October 



TABLE 2 
Chemical clumgcs in fats absorI)ed by fried potato chips 



SERIES 


KIND OF FAT 


TEMPERA- 


TIME or 
FRYING 


IODINE 


ACIDITY 
(AS OLEIC) 


REDUCTION 
OF 

tollen's 






desrces C. 


seconds 




per cent 








170 
190 


90 

55 


58.61 
48.98 
56.16 


0.43 
1.15 
0.58 


0.5 






10.0 




Lard, extracted 


,5.0 




Lard, extracted 


210 


20 


55.08 


0.60 


2.0 


I 


Lard, in pan after frying 






54.16 


0.54 


1.0 


Wesson oil, f resli 






104.5 


0.06 


0.2 




Wesson oil, extracted 


170 


50 


104.0 


0.12 


0.5 




Wesson oil, extracted 


190 


30 


103.6 


0.18 


0.5 






210 


20 


103.2 
102.6 


0.22 
0.13 


2 




Wesson oil, in pan after frying 


0.5 










61.91* 


0.38 


0.5 






170 


75 


59.57 
106.2 


0.46 
06 


7.5 


II 


Wesson oil, fresh, unused 


0.2 




Wesson oil, extracted 


170 


50 


106 5 


09 


0.5 



*Unccrtainty about this value. True value probably higher. 

TABLE .i 
Changes in fats used in deep frying (Landcnberger and Lcavell, 1915) 



Landenberger 



Lea veil. 



kind of fat 



Armour Simon Pure Leaf Lard — Fresh 

In pan after frying 

Extracted from fried potato 

Extracted from sauted potato 

Snowdrift — Fresh 

In pan after frying 

Extracted from fried potato 

Crisco — Fresh 

In pan after frying 

Extracted from fried potato 

Beef suet — Fresh 

In pan after frying 

Extracted from fried potato 

Wesson oil — Fresh 

In pan after frying 

Extracted from fried potato 



57.1 
56.6 
54.0 
53.6 



84.75 

78.02 
37.28 
36.90 
36.58 
111.4 
109.4 
108.5 



per cent 

0.15 
0.26 
1.31 
1.74 
0.06 
0.26 
0.62 

0.14 
0.17 
0.49 
0.68 
0.66 

0.02 
0.04 



1919] CHANGES IN FATS ABSORBED BY FREED FOODS 447 

Length of time of frying affected the amount of decomposition more 
than did increase in temperature. For example, the iodine number of 
lard extracted from the potatoes fried at 170° for one and one-half min- 
utes dropped to 48.98 from an original value of 58.61 and the acidity 
increased from 0.43 per cent to 1.15 per cent. At the much higher tem- 
perature for only twenty seconds, the iodine value fell only to 55.08 
and the acidity rose to 0.60 per cent. The acrolein test was also mark- 
edly stronger for the lard extracted from cooked potatoes. Figure 1, 
presenting a series of the acrolein tests, shows the dijlerent intensities of 
this reduction reaction. With another potato and a different sample of 
lard (series II), the three values changed considerably but not so much as 
in series I. 

The Wesson oil showed less decomposition than the lard. There 
was so little change in the oU at any temperature, that any influence of 
time of frying was negligible. The extreme change in iodine number 
in the whole Wesson series was from 104.5 to 102.6. The acidity at 
210° rose to 0.22 per cent but even this was only one-half the acidity of 
fresh, unused lard. The high initial acidity of the lard probably has- 
tened its further decomposition. 

The color of the extracted fat was not necessarily an indication of the 
amount of decomposition of the kind measured by iodine number, 
acidity, etc. The lard at 170° which showed the greatest change in its 
three factors, was white and fresh-looking while the other lard samples 
were darkened in color but were comparatively sHghtly changed. SKght 
murkiness and darkening of color were all the noticeable differences in 
the appearance of the Wesson oil and this was much the same at all 
temperatures. 

These results agree in general with others obtained a few years ago 
in this laboratory by Loraine Landenberger and by Gladys Leavell. 
Their data on potatoes fried in snowdrift, crisco. Wesson oil, lard, and 
beef suet showed that the changes in the fats absorbed by the foods 
were greater than those in the fat in which the material was fried. The 
lowering of the iodine number was coincident with the increase in free 
fatty acid. They fried larger quantities of potatoes at one time than 
were fried in the writer's experiments and therefore had much more 
variation in the temperature of the fat during a single frying. Their 
conditions were much like those in home frying. A part of their un- 
published results is given here (table 3). 



448 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [October 

Fried Dough Mixture 

The results with fried potatoes needed further confinnation with an- 
other t)^e of food material. Some of the variations in the potato were 
very probably due to individual differences in the potatoes themselves. 

A mixture of flour, water, baking powder, and salt, of such consis- 
tency that it could be rolled out on a board, was fried as doughnuts. 
This mixture had a constant composition throughout the experiment 
and could be used for results on long-time frying without burning, as 
the potatoes could not. The dough made possible conditions similar 
to those of frying doughnuts without introducing the variable factors 
in the fat of the egg, milk, and shortening, with which a doughnut is 
made. 

Method of frying dough mixtures. Proportions used : flour (ordinary 
bread), 100 grams -|- 3 grams on rolhng-board ; Ryzon baking powder, 6 
grams; salt, 2 grams; distilled water, 70 grams. 

The dry ingredients were sifted together three times, then the water 
added slowly and mixed like biscuit dough with a spoon. To get a uni- 
form thickness, the dough was rolled out on a floured board between 
glass rods 0.8 cm. in diameter. From the above proportions, 8 doughnut 
shaped pieces were cut and the scraps of dough discarded. The pieces 
were 5 cm. across with a hole of 2.1 cm. in diameter. A fresh batch of 
dough was made for each one of the series indicated in the tables and 
all four sets of fryings in one fat were completed in one period, the whole 
operation of mixing the doughs and frying taking about two and one- 
quarter hours. 

Two or three pieces of dough were fried at a time, causing a variation 
in temperature of not more than 3° above or below that given in the 
tables. The pieces were turned continually during the frying and drained 
on paper. The time of frying was longer in this experiment than in that 
with the potatoes; two minutes were given as enough to just cook the 
dough and six minutes as about the maximum time ever used in frying 
doughnuts. 

No smoke was visible during any of the frying in Wesson oil but 
the lard began to smoke at 185° and smoked violently all during the 
frying at 210°. After all the fryings were completed at 170°, the fat 
was drained free from burned flour and sediment before heating up to 
210°. 

The color of the dough fried in different fats at the same temperature 



1919] 



CH.\XGES EN' FATS ABSORBED BY FRIED FOODS 



4-49 



was practically identical. This dough browned very slowly as would 
be expected, since it contained no egg. sugar, or other substance to give 
it color; the degree of brownness could not be taken as an indication of 
when the dough was done as in the case of the potatoes. That fried 
at 170° for two minutes had a thin, soft crust, scarcely browned at all; 
that fried at 170° for six minutes had a deep greasy crust, light 
brown but moderately crisp. Frying at 210° for two minutes yielded 
a medium brown product, like a light colored doughnut, with a thin, 
soft crust. The only one with a good doughnut-brown color was the 
one fried at 210° for six minutes and this had a deep crust and was quite 
dry and crisp throughout, though not greasy. 

It should be noted that the potatoes were fried to a certain degree of 
brownness at all temperatures and in both fats while the dough was 
fried for a definite length of time regardless of color. 

Fat absorption. The dough was cut into small pieces with the scis- 
sors immediately after frying, was dried at 50°C., ground on a meat 
grinder, then dried again. The quantity of material for each part of 
the series (corresponding to eight pieces of fried dough) was extracted 
w4th anhydrous ether in a large Soxhlet apparatus and the ether extract 
filtered and evaporated. The moisture and fat are both calculated on 
the basis of the fried dough (table 4). 

TABLE 4 
Per cent fat absorbed by fried dough mixture 





FRYIN-O 

lEMPERAIORE 


TIME OP FRYING 




FAT IN FEIED DOUGH 




DOUGH 


Moist basb 


Dry basis 


haiA ■ 

Wesson oil 


ietrea C. 
170 
170 
210 
210 

170 
170 
210 
210 


minutes 
2 
6 
2 
6 

2 
6 
2 
6 


per cent 

29.73 
18.49 
24.00 
15.77 

26.87 
19.35 
29.67 
16.92 


per cent 

14.45 
24.84 
10.82 
13.50 

14.95 

24.86 

7.90 

14.47 


per cent 

20.56 
30.47 
14.23 
16.02 

20.44 
30.82 
11.23 
17.41 



Time and temperature of frying caused a variation in moisture con- 
tent in the direction expected. The amount of water was about 28 
per cent after two minutes at 170°C. and only 18.5 per cent after six 
minutes at the same temperature. The moisture was lowest, of course, 



450 



THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS 



[October 



after 210° for six minutes, only 16 per cent. The water content of the 
raw dough had been about 45 per cent. 

Under the same condition of frying, the doughs absorbed approxi- 
mately the same amounts of lard and Wesson oil. This is at variance 
with the statement of Holmes and Lang^ that there is a different tem- 
perature for each fat at which the least absorption takes place. The 
absorption was least at 210° for only two minutes (about 10 per cent) 
and greatest at 170° for six minutes (about 25 per cent). Attention is 
called again to the constant absorption of fat by potato chips at all 
three temperatures used. With the dough, imlike the potatoes, long 
time and low temperature of frying mean more fat absorbed. 

Chemical changes in extracted fats. Decomposition of the fat was 
measured, as in the potatoes, by the degrees of change in iodine number 
and amounts of free fatty acids and aldehyde substances (acrolein, 
etc.) (table 5). No corrections were made for the fat of the flour itself, 
since the quantity was very slight and the same amount was present in 
every case. 

TABLE 5 
Chemical changes in fats absorbed by fried dough mixture 



KIND or FAT 



Fresh 

Extracted from dough . 
Extracted from dough. 
In pan after frying. . . . 
Extracted from dough . 
Extracted from dough. 
In pan after frying.. . . 



TEU- 
PEltA- 
TUEE 



170 
170 
170 
210 
210 
210 



T„j;„» Acidity Reduc- 

lodine ' ,; , 

number „L 



61.91* 
61.87 
58.76 
61.54 
60.61 
48.32 
60.69 



per cent 

0.38 
0.44 
0.58 
0.41 
0.51 
2.15 
0.40 



0.5 
2.0 

10.0 
2.0 
5.0 

20.0 
3.0 



WESSON on. 



107.0 
106.4 
106.5 
106.8 
105.1 
105 . 1 
105.7 



Acidity Reduc- 
(as tion of 
oleic) ToUen's 



percent 

0.05 
0.14 
0.14 
0.05 
0.24 
0.35 
0.08 



0.2 
0.5 
0.5 
0.3 
1.0 
2.0 
0.5 



' Uncertainty about this value; true value probably higher. 



As with the potatoes, the lard decomposed very much more than the 
Wesson oil. The extreme change in the iodine value of the lard was 
from 61.91 to 48.32, and the most in the Wesson oil was from 107 to 
105.1. The corresponding change in acidity was an increase in the lard 
from 0.38 to 2.15 per cent and in the oil from 0.05 to 0.35 per cent. 

The decomposition increased very fast when the food was kept a long 
time in the lard and the increase was greater the higher the temperature. 



1919] CH..^"GES Ds" FATS ABSORBED BY FRIED FOODS 451 

The change went on ven' rapidly even at 170°; at the temperature of 
210°, the iodine number of the extracted lard changed from 60.61 to 
48.32 in four minutes and the acidity increased from 0.50 to 2.15 per 
cent. 

The Wesson oil decomposed so slowly that even six minutes at 210° did 
not noticeably affect the properties of the fat. The fat in the pan in 
both cases, changed more slowly than that dispersed through the food. 

Here again, the color of the fat did not completely indicate the kind 
of decomposition measured by iodine value, acidity, and acrolein. The 
lard from dough fried at 210° for six minutes was oily and greenish 
yellow and had a repulsive rancid odor. The one at 170° for sLx minutes 
had a marked rancid odor and showed marked changes in its chemical 
constants but was quite white and fresh-looking. The other two samples 
of lard, sho-\ving comparatively little change in chemical constants, 
were a deep ivory-yellow color but had little odor of rancidity. There 
was little change in the appearance of the extracted Wesson oil and 
never a pronounced rancid odor. 



A. Absorption of fat 

1 . The lard and Wesson oil were absorbed to approximately the same 
extent under identical conditions of frying. This was true in both 
potatoes and fried dough. 

2. Potato chips, fried at the three temperatures 170°, 190°, and 210°C. 
absorbed practically the same amounts of fat; sUght differences were 
apparently due to differences in the absorbing power of the potatoes 
themselves rather than to variations in fats and temperature. The po- 
tatoes were fried to the same degree of brownness at aU temperatures, 
while the doughs were fried for definite lengths of time, regardless of 
color. 

3. With the doughs, both temperature and length of time of frying de- 
termined the amount of fat taken up. More was absorbed when the 
cooking was prolonged and the temperature low. 

B. Chemical changes in the fats absorbed 

1. The changes in iodine number, acidity, and relative amounts of 
reducing substances (acrolein, etc.) in the fats extracted from the fried 



452 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [October 

potatoes and dough mixtures, ran fairly parallel. These changes were 
measurable, though seldom great. 

2. Lard showed more decomposition than the Wesson oil. 

3. Long cooking increased the decomposition even more than high 
temperature, particularly in the lard. For example, the lard extracted 
from fried doughs showed more decomposition after 170° for six min- 
utes than after 210° for only two minutes. Decomposition was very 
marked after 210° for six minutes. 

4. The fat absorbed by the foods during frying underwent greater 
changes in chemical constants than the fat in which the food was fried. 



QUERIES 

Does your grocer stand on the edge of the sugar and flour bins to take 
groceries from the shelves? 

Is food protected from dust, flies and handling? 

Are vegetables raised the required 18 inches from the floor? 

Is food protected from cats and dogs? 

Are bakery products covered during delivery to the shop? 

If any one of these questions cannot be answered favorably, report the fact, 
over your signature, giving the name and address of the dealer. An effort 
win be made to assist him in correcting this condition. 

The above was issued by the Food Department of the Women's 
Municipal League of Boston. Should not every city and town have 
a similar organization that would offer such help? 



FOR THE HOMEMAKER 

A PLAN OF SPENDING FOR THE HOME 

PEARL MACDONALD 
In Charge Borne Economics Extension Seri>ice, Stale College, Pa. 

The question of the financial administration of the household is one 
that has been discussed and taught in schools of home economics. It 
has been written about in magazines and papers by economists and busi- 
ness men. It has been the subject of public lectures and has had its 
place in the programs of women's clubs. 

The majority of women, however, have never taken the matter very 
seriously. Very few have had training in the keeping of accounts and 
most have looked upon it as a burden. They have either never at- 
tempted to keep a household account book, or, if they have started, 
they have discontinued it after a time. 

The higher cost of almost all commodities is causing women to see 
that they must plan much more carefully than hitherto, that they 
must know the intrinsic value of articles purchased, that they must 
select more wisely and use to better advantage the things needed in the 
household. Everj'where there is felt the need of better business methods. 
We are beginning to appreciate the fact that the same fundamental 
principles must be appHed in carrjdng on the business of the home as 
are used by industrial or commercial firms. 

The successful business firm must systematize every phase of its 
work, must know the purchasing power of the dollar, the values in 
machinery, in convenient arrangement of equipment, in processes and 
methods, in raw materials, in finished products, in time and human 
energy. The firm must constantly study changing conditions as they 
present themselves, readjust values when necessary, and improve the 
methods of work and the quality of products put out. 

Practically the same problems present themselves to the woman at 
the head of the home. She is, so to speak, the business manager of the 
home. The house or home is her plant. She is concerned with the 

453 



454 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [October 

arrangement and equipment of that plant to meet the needs of the 
family both as a group and as made up of individuals; with the or- 
ganization and execution of the work in the plant; with the purchase 
and use of materials and supplies; with the administration of the family 
income. 

The raw materials are the various commodities that are essential to 
efficient Ufe of the family group. The finished product is the well- 
developed all-round citizen. 

Just as no business firm can succeed without keeping books and 
knowing exactly where it stands financially, so no home, in these days, 
can be successfully financed and administered unless the woman in 
the home knows values, selects wisely, makes the best possible use of 
commodities and keeps some record of receipts and expenditures, the 
money expended being apportioned according to a definite plan of spend- 
ing worked out to meet the needs of the individual family. 

Every household should have such a Plan of Spending. It is difficult 
to work out a plan imless the woman has for a period of one year at least, 
and better for three years, a record of (1) the amount and kind of ex- 
penditures made and the value of each; (2) a classified list of expendi- 
tures so that she may know what is being spent for each group in the 
classification. The household account book should be so arranged as 
to give her this information clearly and easily. 

The account book should provide for the following: 

Spaces to show the total receipts of the household and the sources of 
such receipts, whether from salary, interest on investments, rents from 
properties, or goods sold, as, for example, the butter and egg money 
which the woman of the farm usually has for her own use. 

A date column to indicate when moneys are received and expendi- 
tures made. 

A column to record the amount and kind of articles purchased. 

A column in which to place the value of articles purchased for the 
household, the term value having two interpretations; (1) the cost of 
articles purchased at the store (2) the amount that would have been 
received if the articles had been raised on the farm and sold from the 
farm or garden. 

Columns for the classified expenditures grouped under such headings 
as the following: Food, Clothing, Operating Expenses, Property 
Expenses, Health and Unclassified Items, The Life of the Home. 

Nutrition speciaHsts are urging a larger use of milk and the products 



1919] SPENDING FOR THE HOME 455 

of the dairy, of eggs, fruits, vegetables, and cereals, and a more moder- 
ate use of meat. Therefore, the following sub-divisions for food are 
suggested : 
Food: 

Meat: includes beef, veal, mutton, lamb, pork, and poultry. 

Fish: includes oysters, clams, and fish of all kinds. 

Eggs: 

Milk atid Milk Products (except butter): whole milk, cream, skim- 
milk, buttermilk, and various kinds of cheese. 
Butter: 
Fats Other Than Butter: Fat of meat as suet, lard, etc., olive and 

other vegetable oils and fats. 
Fruits and Vegetables: All fruits and vegetables used, either fresh, 

carmed, or dried. 
Grain Products: Flours and meals of all kinds; bread, rolls, etc., 
breakfast cereals; hominy and rice; macaroni and spaghetti; 
crackers. 
Other Groceries: All other foodstuffs not Usted in any one of the 
other food groups, as coffee, sugar, spices, etc. 
Items included in the other divisions of the classified Hst are as follows: 
Clothin'G — Textile fabrics for making garments at home; ready-made 
garments; hats and shoes; other clothing as stockings, gloves, etc.; 
care, repair, cleaning and pressing of garments; dressmaking and 
tailor's bills. 
Operating Expenses — Heat, light, ice, telephone, soap, laimdry, wages 

paid for work in the house, renovation, breakage, and repairs. 
Property Expenses — ^Rent (if property is not owned); (if owned) 
taxes, interest, fire insurance, water rent, repairs; car-fares, (if 
paid going to and from work), etc. 
Health and Unclassified Items — Doctor, nurse, medicine, dentist; 
stamps, stationery, and any other expenditures not included in 
preceding groups. 
The Life of the Home — This group includes (a) household furnish- 
ings, (b) investments, and (c) recreation, education and rehgion, 
since these are things that go to make up what may be called the 
satisfactions of life. 
Household Furnishings: New furnishings, as furniture, linen (table 

and bed), rugs, curtains, etc. 
Investments: Bonds, savings accounts, insurance (Ufe and health), 
etc. 



456 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECO^fOMICS [October 

Recreation, Education, and Religion include: Church and benevo- 
lences, gifts, vacations, travel, picnics, theatre, books, maga- 
zines and papers, art, music, lectures. Car-fare other than 
trips to and from work. 

The plan as outlined above has been worked out in A Home Account 
Book.' 

The book has a summary page to record the monthly totals from 
which the yearly total is made. This page may also provide a form to 
compare the actual expenditures as made for the year and the suggested 
apportionment of the income according to standards worked out by 
economists. 

A study and comparison of expenditures as shown by daily purchases 
and monthly totals will help the woman to make readjustments if she 
finds that she has overspent or underspent on any one group in the 
classification. 

As a guide for the woman who has not been accustomed to keeping 
accoimts, a sample page is included in this book showing how to 
enter items in the general column and to distribute them in the classi- 
fied list, how to make the monthly totals and subtractions to determine 
how the account stands. To aid in Usting articles in the right col- 
umn the preface indicates the items belonging in each division of the 
classification. 

No doubt, the work of keeping the accounts for the first two or three 
months will require a considerable amount of time on the part of the 
woman of the home. But, if it is made a part of the regular daily pro- 
gram, the accounting will be taken care of just as any other work of the 
household. 

The work will bring its own reward. If expenditures are made ac- 
cording to a carefully worked out Plan of Spending, without question 
the result will be that a larger share of the income will be apportioned 
for the Life of the Home. This will make possible the broader and fuller 
Ufe of the family group because more of the things may be provided 
that contribute to the "durable satisfactions" of life. 

' Prepared by the Home Economics Extension Service, Pennsylvania State College. 
Price 55 cents. 



1919] THE PARTNER AT HOME 457 

, THE PARTNER AT HOME 

The P.artxer at Home, through wisely directing her household, in- 
creases the family sa\ings and serves the State, yet secures the comfort 
of her family, by contributing productive labor, by planning her use of 
time, by lessening the waste of material, by portioning the income. 
Saving is the household's financial service to the state. It safeguards 
the family and serves the nation. 

Contributing Her Labor 

Her household labor adds to the value of material. The work she 
does in cooking food, in making and repairing clothing, in cleaning the 
house, is productive labor. The difference in value of the raw material 
and the finished product is part of her contribution to the family income. 

Her earning power may be increased. She may fit herself for a defi- 
nite task by a part time vocational course; make money from poultry, 
eggs, butter, fruit, using the parcel post market; sell goods that she has 
caimed; find other part time employment. 

Her leisure may be invested in fuller Ufe for the family — music, read- 
ing, recreation; in service to the community, making it a better place in 
which to Uve. 

Planning Her Time 

Due value is given to her time. She balances the time needed to 
save material against the worth of the material saved. She counts 
time as money, and saving time as saving money. 

Her time is planned. She uses time to save time. Time spent in 
planning is saved in doing. Planning saves labor, saves materials, 
saves money. Better planning of their household work helped Ameri- 
can women make products worth $68,000,000 for the Red Cross in 1918. 

Saving Materials 

She provides for her family right food, suitable shelter, adequate 
clothing, reasonable comforts. 
She carries over war thrift into peace times. 
She enlists her children in the care of all materials. 
She teaches them care of public property, right use of public utilities. 
She saves food material by thoughtful buying, by careful use. 



458 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [October 

She saves clothing by the stitch in time, by proper care. 
She saves fuel and supplies by wise planning, by avoiding small wastes. 
She salvages all household waste, making it available for other uses. 
She asks from the conmiunity clean streets, clean air, clean water, 
that her carefulness be not discoxmted by community negligence. 

Portioning the Incotne 

She knows what the family income is. 

She sets aside as sa\-ings a portion of all money received. 

She makes a spending plan, deciding how much can go for food, 
for clothing, for house expenses, for recreation. 

She makes a food budget, a clothing budget. 

She keeps accounts to check her spending. 

She makes a business of her buying. She knows her materials. 

She plans her purchases and does not buy on impulse. 

She takes account of stock and makes a list of her needs. 

She chooses a reliable dealer. She checks up measures and weights. 

She reads the labels on package goods and compares their cost with 
those sold in bulk. 

She considers quantity versus small amount. 

She considers the advantage of Cash and Carry, or Self Serving, 
stores in lessening the cost of goods. 

She buys things when they are plenty, getting them for the least cost, 
and helping to keep prices down. 

She knows that selfish demands raise the cost of living for all. 

She gets full value for her money. She pays her bills promptly. 

She watches the market lists in newspapers. 

She asks that her community have Fair Price Lists. 

She puts aside for future use extra money saved by good buying. 

Serving the State 

She is responsible for the wise management of 20,000,000 households. 
Billions of dollars pass through her hands each year. 
Her demands control American industry. 
Her intelligence saves money for 20,000,000 families. 
Her care directs the habits of 40,000,000 children. 
Her wise control of her household trains her children in thrift, con- 
tributes to community savings, gives her a share in her government. 



1919] AN mciDENT 459 

AN INCIDENT 

ELVA M. DICKEY 

I was gazing fixedly at two slender, insolently flirtatious young women, 
endeavoring to decide which had the prettier dress. They were fashion- 
plates, and while the garments were adapted to giddy and attractive 
youngness, there was grave doubt as to whether a staid and fat person 
of thirty-five would prove becoming to these particular styles. It was 
absorbing, this argument between fat thirty-fiveness and a fatally persist- 
ent youthful liking for ruffles — one of those wayward tastes which 
refuse to "grow-up" and become old along with the rest of one. 

The situation was critical when I became aware of other ladies also 
interested in fashions, and, amused, I shamelessly "listened in." 

"Mama, my dolly needs a new dress. I want to buy her one and 
make it up before she goes on her vacation." 

"Well. I have no objection. What kind of a dress does she need?" 

"I think she ought to have a nice dress; something pretty, and I 
could choose the pattern right now." 

Then followed a very interesting period. This was a pretty dress, but 
did Dolly need another light dress? Didn't she already have enough 
afternoon and party dresses? Where was Dolly's vacation to be spent 
— in the mountains? What sort of clothes would she want? Surely 
light dresses enough for afternoon and evening, but she must not expect 
to wear that sort of thing all the time; dainty dresses would be ridiculous 
for mountain-climbing. And thus a more useful pattern was selected. 

Then the material to be used was under discussion. Should it be of 
silk? Oh no! not at all advisable! Not even of dark silk? No; that 
might do nicely in town, but would not make a good "sport" suit. So 
it narrowed down to a good blue serge, with white collar and cuffs. 

And I thought, as I watched the child-mother and the real mother 
walk away, "What a splendid thing! what a really fine thing!" The 
interest and patience of this mother was doing much. There was actual 
community of interest between herself and her little daughter; they 
were evidently good comrades. Moreover, in this selection of a doll's 
pattern and a half-yard of cloth, there had been a perfect lesson in 
buying. Quite unconsciously the little girl had absorbed valuable in- 
formation on buying a new dress; the finding of a suitable material; 
the selection of good quality; the choice of right colors, and the real 
thrift of neither buying that which is unnecessary nor of taking the 
wrong thing merely because it seems attractive. 



EDITORIAL 

The Science Section.^ The meeting of the Science Section at Blue 
Ridge emphasized chiefly two distinctly different Unes of work — the 
questions of under-nutrition in children and of experimental cookery. 
Mary Harper, in charge of the food education work of the New York 
Association for Improving .the Condition of the Poor, gave a stimulat- 
ing paper on the first subject, with the most recent scientific and clinical 
experience on nutrition classes for children. The paper was enlivened 
by delightful tales of her children's attitude toward their own improve- 
ment. The discussion showed plainly an encouraging development of 
nutrition work in many parts of the country, rural and urban, north and 
south. The car load of cows, imported in more than one southern 
county as a result of the work of the county agent, is one excellent 
example. 

The rest of the two sessions was devoted to the discussion of experi- 
mental cookery in both its manipulative and chemical aspects. Dr. 
Minna C. Denton, of the Office of Home Economics, reported on several 
lines of work in progress in the Experimental Kitchen in Washington, 
including a series of experiments on oven temperatures in cake baking, 
with the results shown by curves. A short paper on the same subject 
from Miss West of Milwaukee Downer College gave experiments based 
on Miss Denton's cake outhne, showing the superiority of low oven 
temperature in cake baking. The report of Elizabeth W. Miller on 
vegetable" cookery discussed the groups of coloring matters in vegeta- 
bles, chlorophyll, caratinoids and flavores and xanthones, and their 
changes on heating with acid (the vegetable acids themselves or added 
acid) and with alkah (alkahne tap water or soda). Chlorophyll, for 
example, turns olive green with acid, and brighter green with alkali. 
Good flavor in vegetables is partly dependent upon volatihzation of 
some substances. These volatile substances, from some vegetables at 
least, have been shown to contain acid and sulphur compounds. 

' A general report of the meeting at Blue Ridge appeared in the August editorial 
columns. 



1919] EDITORIAL 461 

Three papers on fat absorption and decomposition were presented. 
Elizabeth Sprague reported that the temperature at which various fats 
give off acrolein corresponds to their relative smoking temperatures. 
Dr. Agnes Fay Morgan and Rau Cozens gave changes in a number of 
fat constants before and after frying doughnuts in a fat, and also figures 
for the absorption of various fats in frying. Sybil Woodruff reported 
fat absorption in frjang potatoes and a dough mixture at different tem- 
peratures and times, and differences in iodine number, acidity, and re- 
ducing substance (acrolein) in the original fat and fat extracted from 
fried foods. 

Most of the papers are to be printed in the Journal, and so are not 
summarized further here. 

The value and method of teaching experimental cookery was dis- 
cussed, most of the speakers considering it, if properly done, an important 
part of the training of the college student. 

Several of the experimental cookery papers were partly the result 
of the plans for cooperative research. The Science Section hopes to 
develop this cooperative research further. The plan was suggested of 
ha\ing different individuals maintain a sort of clearing house for re- 
search in different lines. This person should be informed by members 
of the association of work which they may have in progress; she should 
stand ready to answer questions or give advice when she can, on her 
line, either as to subjects to be investigated or methods to be used, and 
in general to do all possible to further our co5perative effort. 

Dr. Minna Denton, Office of Home Economics, has consented to 
serve in this capacity in experimental cookery, especially on the manip- 
ulative side; Dr. Katharine Blunt, University of Chicago, on the chemi- 
cal side of experimental cookery problems; Dr. Ruth Wheeler, Goucher 
College, Baltimore, on adult nutrition. It is hoped that Dr. Amy 
Daniels, University of Iowa, Iowa City, will serve on nutrition of in- 
fants and children. Members who are doing work along these lines 
are asked to communicate with these women. 

The chairman of the Science Section is desirous of bringing together 
any groups of workers doing similar work on these or other Unes of which 
she may hear. 

At the end of the meeting, Dr. Ruth Wheeler moved that the officers 
of the section be continued for a second year. The motion was carried. 

Katharine Blunt, 
Chairman Science Section. 



462 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [October 

The Extension Section. The section was called to order at 9 a.m., 
June 26, with Agnes Ellen Harris in the chair. The morning was de- 
voted to discussion of organization of home demonstration work. Dr. 
Bradford Knapp, chief of extension work in the South, gave an excellent 
report of the rise of home demonstration work, and its progress in the 
fifteen southern states during the last ten years, developing the fact 
that the character of the work was determined by the necessity for im- 
proving the economic conditions of the farm homes. The success of 
the work of the excellent women of the South is shown by the fact that 
throughout the South generally the work of home demonstration agents 
has commanded as great financial support as has the work of the county 
agents. 

Florence Ward, in charge of extension work with women. North and 
West, followed with an account of the rapid rise during war years of the 
home demonstration service in the thirty-three northern and western 
states. Miss Ward introduced members of her stafY in charge of special 
phases of States Relations Service. Miss Van Hoesen discussed the 
development of home demonstration service in the cities, and Miss 
Birdseye the duties of home economics speciahsts in extension service. 
Miss Hoover and Miss Frysinger outHned their special work on the 
staff. 

In the absence of Miss Knowles of Iowa, who was to present the sub- 
ject of state organization, Mrs. Jane S. McKimmon of North Carolina, 
gave an interesting account of the development of the present organiza- 
tion in that state. 

The final discussion of the morning led by Dr. Knapp, Miss Ward, 
Miss Richardson, and Miss Stanley, concerned the Smith-Lever and 
Smith-Hughes work. 

Miss Susie V. Powell presided over the Friday morning session. 

The following home economics extension problems were presented: 
Home Demonstration Agents' Training Courses, The University of 
Illinois Plan, Miss Bunch, State Leader of Illinois; Miss Matthews of 
Purdue, Miss White of Ohio, Miss Hayes of Connecticut, and Mrs. 
McKimmon of North Carohna discussed various points in the plan 
presented. 

A round table discussion of the types of home demonstration projects 
followed. Dairy Work, Leader, Jessie M. Hoover, Dairy Demonstra- 
tion Agent, Bureau of Animal Industry, U. S. Department of Agricul- 
ture; Poultry Work, Susie V. Powell, Assistant Director in Charge Home 



1919] EDITORIAL 463 

Demonstration Work, Mississippi; Clothing, Mabel Wilkerson, Textile 
Specialist, University of IllLnois; Girls Clubs, Leader, Gertrude Warren, 
Boys and Girls Club Work, States Relations Ser\'ice, U. S. Department 
of Agriculture. 

Reports followed by committees appointed the day before. The 
Nominating Committee submitted the following report: Chairman, 
Miss Bunch of Illinois; Secretary, Mrs. Jane S. McKimmon of North 
Carolina. 

The chairman of the committee to develop the policy for extension 
work submitted the following report: 

Your committee on the policy of extension work respectfully recom- 
mends the appointment of the following committees for specific service 
during the coming year. 

First, a committee to make a survey of home demonstration projects 
in cities. Chairman, Miss Hayes of Connecticut, assisted by Miss 
Neal of Texas. 

Second, a committee to find out what is being done in definite train- 
ing for extension workers; to encourage closer connection of the extension 
division with the college department of the institution of which it is 
a part; to outline a suggested course of study which will meet the needs 
of (a) agents who have had experience in the field, and (b) prospective 
agents: Miss Bunch of Illinois, Chairman; Miss Sales of New York, 
Miss Cresswell of Georgia, Miss McCheyne of Utah, Miss Scott of 
Teimessee, Miss Parrott of South Carolina. 

Third, a committee to bring to the attention of the Research Commit- 
tee of The American Home Economics Association research problems aris- 
ing in the extension field, and to request the chairman of the American 
Home Economics Association to send to state leaders reports of prob- 
lems in consideration in the different college laboratories. Chairman, 
Miss Kellar of Maryland; members. State Leaders of each of the forty- 
eight states. 

On motion the report was accepted and passed on to the Corcmiittee 
on Resolutions for the American Home Economics Association. 

A resolution from the textile section presented by Miss Birdseye, 
asking approval of the extension section was approved by vote. 

Mr. Moran was introduced for a brief discussion of moving pictures 
as adding to recreation in extension service instruction. 

The section adjourned to meet at the next annual meeting of The 
American Home Economics Association. 

Mamie Bunch, Chairman Exlension Section. 



464 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [October 

Resolutions. The following resolutions were passed at the Annual 
Meeting of the A. H. E. A. Other resolutions have already appeared 
in the Journal. (See August Editorial and September, page 388.) 

Whereas, The A. H. E. A. recognizes the unique opportunitv of the Home 
Demonstration Agents to bring to the attention of the Association problems 
which require laboratory experimentation for their solution, and 

Whereas, The Association appreciates the valuable services of the E.xten- 
sion Workers in securing in the homes of the country practical application of 
the principles of home improvement for which this organization stands, and 

Whereas, The demand for extension service is far in excess of the supply 
of well-trained workers; therefore be it 

Resolved, That the A. H. E. A. recommends the arrangement of home eco- 
nomics courses in colleges and universities, so that during the junior and senior 
years such electives may be chosen as wiU best fit the candidate for extension 
work to understand her field; that at least one unit in demonstration teach- 
ing be included in everj^ teachers course, and that a special year be ofifered, 
open to graduates in home economics, providing part time for class instruc- 
tion in the pedagogy of extension teaching; the details of field and office organ- 
ization and part time in practice work in the field under the supervision of the 
extension division. 

Whereas, The A. H. E. A. recognizing the great need for Home Economics 
education to safeguard, develop, and protect the interests of the American 
home so fundamental to a program of sound national hfe. 

And realizing that the present provisions for the same are inadequate to 
meet the needs of the large groups of homemakers and future homemakers; 
belt 

Resolved, That the A. H. E. A. urge that the present session of Congress 
pass the bill entitled "A bill to provide for cooperation with the states in the 
promotion of vocational education in Home Economics, and to appropriate 
money and regulate its expenditure. " 

That copies of these resolutions be sent to the Chairmen of the Senate and 
House Committees on Education and Labor, and be given to the press. 

Finally, in recognition of our enjoyable week at Blue Ridge, be it 
Resolved, That the Secretary be asked to e.xpress for the A. H. E. A. thanks 
to Dr. Weatherford of the Blue Ridge Association and his staff of fine young 
men and women whose kindly thoughtfulness has helped to make our stay so 
delightful; and especially to Miss Brooks and Miss Davis, whose able manage- 
ment of the dining hall proves the value of our institutional division. 



1919] COMMENT .AJN'D DISCUSSION 465 

That an expression of appreciation be recorded, of the cordial hospitaUty 
of the entire Southern group, and gratitude for the additional profit and 
pleasure we have enjoyed from the meetings of the Southern Home Economics 
Association. 

That a friendly fellowship be expressed for the other groups in conference 
here, whose work for the development of a better citizenship is not unrelated 
to our own. 

That a special vote of thanks be accorded the Program Committee and all 
who contributed to the success of their efltort, for so arranging the program as 
to allow an unhurried enjojTnent of all the helpful and inspiring messages it 
provided. 

COMMENT AND DISCUSSION 

To the Journal of Home Economics: 

I read with interest the remarks of Louise T. Montgomery in your 
June issue, under Comment and Discussion. I have the subject of 
Basement Laboratories so at heart that I should be very glad if you 
would find space in your journal to use the enclosed matter. My own 
practical experience, and my visitations and investigations have given 
me data sufficient to most strongly condemn basement rooms for teach- 
ing purposes. If through your Journal anything can be accomplished 
in the abolishment of basement rooms for teaching, much will be done 
for the cause of home economics. 

In two cities, one of 65,000 population, and the other 100,000 popu- 
lation, I introduced the work of home economics some years ago. In 
both of these instances the work was conducted in basement rooms. 
Before going to these cities to take up the work, I was informed upon 
inquiry that sunny and pleasant quarters were available for this new 
department. The cold truth was revealed to me later. 

Even in the early or pioneer days of home economics, it was not ex- 
cusable to place this work in basements. If basements had to be used 
because of lack of space then these should have been used interchange- 
ably with other lines, so as not to require one instructor to remain in 
these quarters more than one teaching period. This same adjustment 
could be employed at the present time. This is, however, not the best 
or ideal solution of the problem. I do not think that basement rooms 
should ever be used for teaching space; let this space be used for other 
purposes. Rather cut down the teaching period of various branches. 



466 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [October 

or lengthen the teacliing day than to use basements; a touch of the 
Gary System would help solve the problem. 

Those who have conducted work in basements, know something of 
its extreme hardships and difficulties. It means working in cold, damp, 
and often unsanitarj^ surroundings, amid noise and clatter from various 
sources. At the present time when new buildings are being erected 
there is no possible excuse for using basement rooms for teaching. 
Wherever new schools are being built, the work in home economics 
should be given the choice rooms, and most decidedly on upper floors. 
This work should be housed where there is good hght, good ventilation, 
proper heating, possibiKties of good sanitation, and opportunities for 
attractiveness and dignity. 

It has long been recognized that food is a most important factor in 
the health and welfare of the individual. Good clean food makes for 
good citizenship. 

Placing this work in basements makes it dijficult to inculcate, in the 
minds of the less fortunate, higher ideals of cleanliness and sanitation — 
little is given to them for which to strive; to the more fortimate or well 
to do, basement laboratories are repulsive, and do much to hinder 
cooperation between parent and teacher. 

The most efficient teaching cannot be secured from indi\'iduals whose 
health is below par. To keep a teacher well and healthy she must be 
given the proper surroundings. Basement rooms do not give this. I 
speak from experience of long standing on hard cold cement floors; of 
bad ventilation; of improper heating; of noise and clatter from furnace 
and engine rooms. Unpleasant surroundings furnish little incentive 
for vigorous teaching. 

At the present day no teacher of home economics should ever accept 
a position until she knows absolutely the location of her work in the 
building; and if this work is assigned for basement rooms she is only 
being just to "herself and pupils, and to the cause by refusing to fill such 
a position. 

It is only through this persistent effort and display of moral courage 
on the part of home economics workers that School Boards will ever 
become educated on this point in question, and eventually make the 
basement laboratory a relic of the dark past. 

Jane Goessling Hammitt, 

Wilmington, Delaware. 



BOOKS AND LITERATURE 

Any book or periodical mentioned in this department may be obtained through the 
Journal or Home Economics if the Journal price is listed. 



Bouschold Engineering. By Christine 

Frederick. Chicago: The American 

School of Home Economics, 1919, pp. 527. 

SI. 75. By mail of the Journal, $1.88. 

Te.xt-book edition. 

This volume includes not only everj'thing 
given in Mrs. Frederick's earlier book, "The 
New Housekeeping," but also additional 
suggestions on efficient household manage- 
ment. The material is organized and ar- 
ranged in twelve lessons and at the end of 
each lesson is a set of suggestive questions. 
At the end of the book is a fairly complete 
bibliography. 

The book touches upon a wide range of 
household subjects and, as one would expect 
from the title, each phase of housekeeping 
is approached and dealt ^vith from the stand- 
point of saving time, labor, and materials, 
or in the light of efficiency engineering. 

Mrs. Frederick holds the attention by the 
contrasts she makes between old and new 
methods of work; for instance, she carries her 
point by comparing kitchens with verj- good 
and with verj- bad grouping of equipment; 
by presendng time schedules with and with- 
out order in dish-washing, with and without 
"change of shift" in cleaning, and with and 
without tireless cookers. Figures are also 
given to show the relation of the heights of 
individuals to the heights of working surfaces 
and lengths of handles. 

The book is written in a vigorous style, is 
most suggestive, and ought to stimulate 
housekeepers so that they will be ready to 
try new methods of housekeeping so as to 
save time, labor, and materials. 

Sarah J. MacLeod 
Home Economics Bureau, 
Society for Savings, 
Cleveland, Ohio. 



Camp Cookery. By Ava B. Milam, A. Grace 

Johnson, and Ruth JIcNary Smith. 

Portland, Oregon: The J. K. Gill Co., 

1918, pp. 108. $.50. By mail of the 

Journal, S.53. 

While the days for camping are nearly over 
for this year , this little book on Camp Cook- 
er>' has permanent value, and may be used 
for class work as well as "on the road." Its 
first evident advantage, particularly for camp 
use, is that it is so light in weight that 
it will not add appreciably to the burdens 
of the "pack." 

The arrangement of the book is good, the 
recipes sensible, and the suggestions for 
camp diet good. The book is evidently in- 
tended for the more or less permanent camp. 
To those who are accustomed to camp for a 
few days, or to make walking trips without 
permanent headquarters, the equipment and 
meals seem somewhat elaborate. 

The most difiicult part of all for the camper, 
the proper management and control of the 
fire, might perhaps receive even more at- 
tention than it has. 

While the book might well be supple- 
mented by those referred to in the preface, 
and, for a list of verj' light equipment, by 
Stewart Edward White's "The Forest," this 
little volume has a distinct place of its own, 
and will do excellent service. 

The Well Baby Primer, a pamphlet pre- 
pared by Dr. Caroline Hedger, is delightful 
both in its make-up, its attractive printing 
and its charming baby pictures. It was 
especially designed to be of ser\'ice in the 
Americanization program to teach English 
to the foreign-born woman, and at the same 
time to educate her in American standards 
of baby health. Yet, though it is a primer, 
467 



468 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [October 

every young mother not only would be in- table of heights and weights of children 
terested in it but would be helped by its furnished by the Children's Bureau. Pub- 
simple, plain, direct statements. Instruc- lished by the Elizabeth McCormick Memorial 
tion in feeding, in weighing, in bathing, and Fund, 6 North Michigan Avenue, Chicago. 
dressing is written so plainly that all who Price, 15 cents. 
run may read. The last page contains the 

PAMPHLETS RECEIVED 

Issued by the U. S. Department of Agriculture and Treasury Department: 
Thrift Leaflets: No. 5, Saving Labor and Materials by Easier Laundry Methods; No. 6, 
How to Remove Stains; No. 7, Take Care of Your Clothing; No. 8, Saving Materials 
and Money by Special Cleaning; No. 9, Thrift in Lighting; No. 10, Thrift in the 
Choice, Use and Care of Kitchen Utensils; No. 11, Thrift in the Use of Fuel for Cook- 
ing; No. 12, Saving Fuel in Heating; No. 13, Saving Food by Proper Care; No. 14, 
Inexpensive Ways of Keeping Food Cool; No. 15, How Shall We Choose our Food? No. 
16, The Weekly Market Basket; No. 17, Thrift on the Farm; No. 18, Business 
Methods for the Home; No. 19, Teaching Thrift to Your Children; No. 20, Thrift 
Standards for Boys and Girls. 

Issued by the Iowa State College of Agriculture and Mechanical Arts: 
Clothing Thrift. Emergency Leaflet No. 51, December, 1918. 
Food for the Family. Home Economics Bulletin No. 10, March, 1919. 
Short Cuts in Searing. Janet G. Cation. Emergency Leaflet No. 53, May, 1919. 
Steam Pressure Cooking for the Hemic. Nell M. Bamett and Elva V. Akin. Home Eco- 
nomics Circular No. 17, April, 1919. 
Why Use Milk? Home Economics Circular No. 18, June, 1919. 

Issued by the publishers listed: 
Agencies for the Sale of Cooked Foods Without Profit. Iva Lowther Peters, Ph.D. Council 

of National Defense, Women's Committee. 
Egg Substitutes and So-Called Egg Savers. Charles H. Lawall. Bulletin of the Pennsyl- 
vania Department of Agriculture, Vol. 1, No. 7. 
Home Economics Education. Organization and Administration. Bulletin No. 28, Home 

Economics Series No. 2, Federal Board for Vocational Education. 
Household .Accounts. Marketing Series. March 1919, Bulletin 4, State Agricultural and 

Industrial League, Portland, Maine. 
Household Budget Clubs. Velma Phillips, Tenth Series, No. 8, Teachers College Bulletin. 
Malnutrition and Health Education. David Mitchell. Bureau of Educational Experiments, 

New York City. Reprinted from The Pedagogical Seminary, March, 1919, Vol. XXVI, 

pp. 1-26. 
Report of the Canada Food Board. 1918. Ottawa, Canada. 
Report of the Committee on Dietary and Food Supplies. Charles S. Pitcher. Reprinted from 

The State Hospital Quarterly. February, 1919. State Hospitals Press, Utica, N. Y. 
A Rural Social Survey of Orange Township, Btackhau'k County, Iowa. Iowa State College of 

Agriculture and Mechanic Arts, Ames, Iowa. Bulletin No. 184. 
Sanitation of Smimming Pools. March, 1919 Bulletin of tlie California State Board of Health. 
The Soldier-Citizen and His Home Town. Eda .\mberg and William H. Allen. Educational 

Bureau, National War Work Council, Y. M. C. .A. 
Tuberculosis Survey Number. March, 1919, Bulletin, N. Y. State Department of Health. 
Wartime Changes in the Cost of Living. Research Report No. 14, February, 1919, National 

Industrial Conference Board, 15 Beacon Street, Boston, Mass. 



NEWS FROM THE FIELD 



Conference of Home Demonstration 
Agents, New Haven, Conn., April, 1919. 
At the opening session, each Home Demon- 
stration Agent gave a five minute report on 
some project that she had developed par- 
ticularly well or that was peculiar to her 
county or city. 

Dorothy Buckley, Assistant State Leader 
gave a report of the intensive educational 
milk campaigns conducted in several cities 
of the state. Thousands of men, women, 
and children have been taught the various 
reasons why milk is such an important food. 

Maud Hayes, Home Economics Special- 
ist, reported on the twenty-four Institutes 
and Extension Schools, held the past session. 
The aim of these Institutes has been to link 
together the subjects of farm and home, the 
one being presented by a man, the other by 
a woman. 

In presenting the Boys' and Girls' Club 
work, A. J. Brundage, State Club Leader, 
gave as its object "To Dignify Mother's and 
Father's Job." Speaking of the home and 
school as points of contact for club activities, 
he emphasized particularly the need of 
knowing community conditions. He urged 
that club workers gain the right conception 
of the boy's part in helping in the home. 

Helen Bolan, Assistant Club Leader, 
showed how the Home Demonstration 
Agents could help with club work by acting 
as scouts, la>-ing the foundation for clubs by 
interviewing interested persons, or by visit- 
ing certain schools. 

M. Estella Sprague, State Home Demon- 
stration Leader, outlined projects for the 
coming months: The state-wide campaign 
for preserving eggs, the milk campaigns, the 
question of ice shortage and consequent 
higher prices, and other means of food pres- 
ervation. Efficiency surveys will be taken 
in about three hundred homes throughout 



the state to determine how modem are the 
methods and equipment employed. Other 
projects to be developed are Household .Ac- 
counting, Home Grown Products for Winter 
Supply, and .Americanization Work. 

At the afternoon session Gertrude Van 
Hoesen, States Relations Service, U. S. De- 
partment of .Agriculture, Washington, D. C, 
talked on the Home Bureau from the stand- 
point of organization. She stated that such 
an organization should be built up on the 
basis of e.xisting conditions; it must start at 
the bottom and grow with the needs of the 
community, it must use existing organiza- 
tions. The paramount need for such an 
organization is e\'idenced by housing condi- 
tions, ignorance of foreigners, and wages be- 
low decent living. More than fifty per cent 
of the children in the United States are below 
par. 

Winifred Gibbs, States Relations Service, 
Department of Agriculture, \\"ashington, 
D. C, talked on The Housewife as a Finan- 
cier. The cost of living is no longer a ques- 
tion of standards but a choice of values. 
By keeping household accounts a housewife 
will be able to make estimates and compari- 
sons which will aid her in determining the 
amount necessary for a definite item, so 
that she will not be spending for one item 
at the expense of another, unknowingly. 

Jessie Hoover, U. S. Department of .Agri- 
culture, Washington, D. C, talked on Home 
Problems of the Country Woman. The two 
problems. Labor and Social Isolation, were 
met, and one solution offered — To save labor 
by using convenient equipment so that more 
time for pleasure would result. A speed- 
ometer was used to prove how many steps 
could be saved by using labor saving de- 
vices. 

I. G. Davis, Acting Director of Connecti- 
cut Extension Service, told of the Relation 



470 



THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS 



[October 



of the Home Economics Department to 
other Departments of the Farm Bureau. 
The fundamental principles of the Farm 
Bureau are to maintain a high type of far- 
mers on the farm, to demonstrate and de- 
velop the possibilities and attractiveness of 
farm life, to demonstrate farm life as a con- 
trast to city life. To this end farm life 
must be on a profitable basis and there 
should be mutual interest of the producer 
and consumer. 

Mrs. Samuel Russell, Jr., Chairman of 
the Home Economics Committee in Middle- 
sex County, talked on the Relation of Local 
Committees to the Work of the Home 
Demonstration Agent. 

Mrs. Frank Blakeman, representing the 
Home Economics Department of the East- 
em Division of National Granges, sent, 
through Mrs. Wallace Mitchell, State Chair- 
man, the message to the conference that the 
Home Economics Committees are being 
formed in the Granges throughout the state 
and cooperation with the Home Economics 
Department of the Extension Service is 
desired. 

On Friday morning there were special ses- 
sions held for urban and rural workers, when 
each agent had the opportunity of getting 
help on any particular project from the 
specialist present. 

Roy Jones of the Poultry Department, 
Connecticut Agricultural College, discussed 
the ways in which the Poultry and Home 
Economics Departments may work together. 
He stated that 50 per cent was saved in 
money by using waterglass, and also that 
half the supply of waterglass eggs should be 
used by Christmas time. 

Walter Stemmons, of the Publicity De- 
partment of Connecticut Agricultural Col- 
lege, emphasized the importance of close 
cooperation of the Agents with the news- 
papers. 

Mrs. Evelyn Tobey of Teachersi College, 
Columbia University, demonstrated the 
making of a child's hat with inexpensive ma- 
terials, such as gingham, chambray, and 
cretonne. 

Guy C. Smith and Hugh Bruce Price of 
the Bureau of Markets Department, Con- 



necticut Agricultural College, and Mr. 
Stack of the New Haven Bureau of Markets 
presented the subject of marketing. Four 
cities in Connecticut, Hartford, New Haven, 
Bridgeport, and Waterbury, are putting out 
daily reports of the markets. Two reports 
are given, one for the producer and one for 
the consumer. These reports help the house- 
wife to buy to advantage. 

On Saturday morning the conference vis- 
ited the Coimecdcut Agricultural Experi- 
ment Station. Miss Ferry of the Protein 
Research Department gave an illustrated 
lecture on Food Experimentation with White 
Rats. Dr. E. H. Jenkins, Director of the 
Experiment Station, personally conducted 
the visitors through the Station. 

War Service Acknowledged. TheJouR- 
NAi, has been asked to publish the following 
expression of appreciation for services 
rendered. 

Upon their separation from the service, 
the Surgeon General directs us to express to 
all members of the .\nny Nurse Corps, both 
regular and reserve, and to all dietitians, 
reconstruction aides, laboratory technicians, 
medical secretaries, and other women civil- 
ians who have rendered such valiant ser\'ice 
with the Medical Department of the Army, 
his personal appreciadon and that of the 
Department for their patriotic devotion to 
duty and the self-sacrificing spirit they have 
manifested in giving their assistance to the 
Department and the Army when it was so 
badly needed. 

He regrets that it has not been possible to 
accept all the offers of renewed and contin- 
ued service because of the great reduction of 
the Department personnel, and he hopes 
that all who can will continue their connec- 
tion with the Depatrment through their 
membership in the .American Red Cross. 
JuxiA C. Stimson, 
Acting Superintendent, 
Army Nurse Corps 
and Dean, Army 
School of Nursing. 
Lenna F. Cooper, 

Supervising Dietitian. 



Vol. XI. No. 11 November, 1919 

THE 

Journal of Home Economics 

For those interested in Homemaking, Institution Management, 
and Educational Work in Home Economics 

Mm. Auce p. Norton. Editor Keturah E. Baldwin, Business Editor 

Editorial Board 
Me8. Mary H. Abel C. F. Langworthy Ethelwyn Miller Ruth Wheeler Awy Danieli 

Ex-Officio if embers—Eva A N. White. President American Home Economics Association 
Elsie Leonard, Chairman Institution Economics Section 
Katherine Bldnt, Chairman Science Section 
Mauie Bcnch, Chairman Eitension Education Section 
Mabel Trilling, Chairman Textile Section 

C»Uaboratars— The Officers, Members of the Council, and Advisors 



CONTENTS 

NcTKiTiON Classes for Children Mary A. Harper ill 

A Method of Determining the DECOurosiTiON Point of Edible Fats . Elizabeth C. Sprague 480 

Putting Over Budget Lessons Janei G. Cation 484 

Household Arts and The High School Girl Nancy G. Gladish 488 

Vocational Trapning foe Girls Greta Gray 493 

The Legislative Program of The American Home Economics Association 498 

Foe the Homemaker 

A Plea for the Preschool Age Dorothy Reed Mendenhall 501 

Queries 507 

Editorwl 508 

Announcement 514 

Books and Literature 515 

News from the Field 517 



The JociNAi, of Houe Econobacs is published monthly by the American Home Economics Association. 

J2.M A YEAR. FOREIGN $2.35. CANADIAN $2.20. SINGLE COPIES 25 CENTS 

HOW TO REMIT. Remittances should be sent by Check. Express Order or Postal Money Order, payable to the 
American Home Economics Association. Currency, unless mailed in a registered letter, is at the sender's risk. 

NOTICE. When payment is made by check no receipt will be sent unless requested. 

CHANGE IN ADDRESS. Notice of change in address should be sent Two Weeks before the date of issue on which 
the change is to take eflect. The subscriber's Old Address should be clearly indicated in addition to the New Address. 

AMERICAN HOME ECONOMICS ASSOCIATION 1211 Cathedral St., Baltimore, Md. 

The Journal of Home EcONOincs is on sale at John Wanamaker's, Philadelphia; The Old Comer Book Store, Boston; 

A. C. McClurg's, Chicago; Baltimore News Company, Baltimore; Woodward and Lothrop, Washington 



JOURNAL OF HOME ECOXOMICS^ADVERTISEMESTS 



You Can Save 
Eggs 

in your baking by using 

ROYAL 

Baking Powder 

In many recipes only half as many 
eggs are required, in some none at 
all, if an additional quantity of Royal 
Baking Powder is used — about a tea- 
spoon, in place of each Qgg omitted. 

Try this method Avith all your bak- 
ing recipes. Thousands of women 
are using it wth great success. 

Royal Contains No Alum — 

Leaves No Bitter Taste 

In writing advertisers, please mention Journal of Home Economics 



THE 

Journal of Home Economics 

Vol. XI NOVEMBER, 1919 No. 11 

NUTRITION CLASSES FOR CHILDREN' 

MARY A. HARPER 
New York Associaticm for Improving the Condition of the Poor 

For the last twelve years the New York Association for Improving 
the Condition of the Poor has had on its staiT trained home economics 
workers. It was the first organization dealing with relief and health 
problems to provide trained dietitians for work with the individual 
family. This was the beginning of an appreciation on its part of the 
fact that nutritional problems are fundamental in reUef and public 
health problems, and that, in order to make constructive work with 
famiUes possible, intensive and well-informed attention must be given to 
the nutrition of the individuals of those famiUes. 

In the development of its work during these years the Association has 
realized increasingly that preventive health work is preventive relief 
work. It has perceived, for example, that to prevent tuberculosis, 
which causes at least one half of its relief problem, it must address 
itself not so much to the requirements of the tuberculosis patient as to 
the problem of insuring healthy babies and healthy normal physical 
specimens of boys and girls. It has therefore been putting emphasis 
upon the prenatal education and upon efforts to give every child its 
birthright — to be born well. Its prenatal program, with its program 
for instruction of the mother in feeding the young infant antedated the 
milk station. In addition to the emphasis upon this problem it has 
also addressed itself to discovering defects in children, and to providing 
facilities for dealing with these defects when discovered. 

' Presented at the Twelfth Annual Meeting of the .American Home Economics Associa- 
tion, Blue Ridge, N. C, June, 1919. 

471 



472 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [November 

To further promote this health education program the Association has 
developed an intensive demonstration in a definite district in New York 
City comprising some 38 blocks with some 38,000 people, 91 per cent of 
whom are Italian born, or children of Italian born. By assigning a 
corps of prenatal nurses and dietitians to work exclusively in this dis- 
trict it is maintaining an experimental and demonstration center show- 
ing the possibilities of dealing practically with the whole range of the 
child defect problem. 

As the prenatal nurses visited these homes, in addition to securing 
the mother's interest in the prenatal work and the problem of the feed- 
ing of the young infant, they secured her interest in the physical condi- 
tion of the other children in the family. They persuaded her to have 
them examined, weighed, and as fast as defects were discovered they 
addressed themselves intensively to securing the removal of those 
defects. The defects included nose and throat defects, teeth defects, 
eye defects, and all other defects to which childhood is prone. Promi- 
nent among these was defective nutrition. The dietitian therefore 
began to work with the nurses, taking as her special problem the care of 
the undernourished child. 

In looking over the work done on this problem, we foimd that gener- 
ally the child from two to six years was receiving very little attention. 
The Baby Health Stations and other agencies were caring for the child 
from birth to two years. Methods for caring for the undernourished 
school child were being developed. In beginning our experiment there- 
fore we made use of the things wliich were already tangible and from them 
worked towards the intangible, and, although the greater part of this 
paper is given to discussing the work with the children of school age, 
this is not the main part of our problem; we have been feeling our way 
towards what we think is really preventive nutritional work for children, 
namely the care of the pre-school child. 

We have been able to make progress in this, especially in the last few 
months. We do the work entirely in the home, the instruction being 
given through the mother. Our dietitians carry a portable weighing 
machine, and visit as they weigh the children right in the homes. This 
removes the great difficulty of getting the mother to bring the children 
somewhere to get them weighed. A small weight chart is kept for each 
child so that the mother will see whether the curve is going up or down, 
and the dietitian explains to the mother why these changes take place. 
We shall speak of the home instruction and the methods we use later. 



1919] NUTRITION CLASSES FOR CHILDREN 473 

As you all know, Dr. Emerson of the Massachusetts General Hospital, 
Boston, is the originator of the nutrition class, a system which for a num- 
ber of years has proved its worth in dealing with the undernourished 
child of school age. In New York City a number of nutrition classes 
were already established in several hospitals. Bowling Green Health 
Centre, and Public School 64. These classes were under direct super- 
vision of physicians. The class at Public School 64 was carried on by 
the Bureau of Educational Experiments under direction of Dr. Emerson 
himself. These classes were dealing with the problem from the medical 
end and the doctor's assistants were usually not trained home econo- 
mics workers. There was some home visiting done but the greater 
part of the work was centered in the class itself. Miss Lucy H. Gillett, 
now Director of the Dietetic Bureau, Boston, who was in charge of the 
Home Economics Department of the A. I. C. P. at the beginning of the 
experiment, saw a big field for trained nutrition workers to conduct 
nutrition classes as well as to do intensive work in the homes. 

A year ago the first nutrition class was held. The children were 
from the homes where the prenatal nurse had already made the first 
contact. We had a class of eight children. The interest of the chil- 
dren was secured very readily and they not only returned themselves 
but brought pale friends from next door, pale friends from upstairs, 
and skinny friends from the rear house. The nurses were also referring 
more children to the dietitian and after a few weeks two more classes 
were organized. By the tune schools were re-opened in the fall we had 
enrolled over 200 children. Since these children were school children 
and since the school seemed the logical place for such classes, our next 
step was to take the records of the summer's work to the schools. The 
weight charts and other records proved that constructive work was 
being accomplished and we were invited to organize classes in the schools. 
In one school a class was organized for 25 children with whom we had 
worked during the summer. The class was held in the school indoor 
playground after school hours on Friday, at zero hour we might say, 
but by the end of the two months the school principals were becoming 
really interested and the teachers were beginning to refer children as 
applicants for the nutrition class. It was more than encouraging to 
have a sickly child come to you with a note from the principal saying: 
"A new recruit, a promised oatmeal eater." At last in February of 
this year we were given permission to handle the children by grades, 
weighing and measuring the whole grade and selecting the children for 
the nutrition class. The classes arc held out of school hours. 



474 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [November 

Let us look at the problems we had to consider in planning a system 
that would meet the needs of the children and families with whom we 
were dealing. 

Those of us who do dietetic work in the homes find that to secure the 
best results of instruction we must iind some way of interesting both 
the mother and the children. If we confine our instructions to the mother 
alone, even though we get her interested enough to change her methods 
of selecting and cooking food, the children very often refuse to eat the 
tilings she prepares because they mean nothing to them. Our own 
mothers would say that that is not an argimient, but may we not say 
that the children of today are not inclined as the children of yesterday? 

Again those of us who teach in schools find that when we can reach 
the mother as well as the child, more constructive work can be accom- 
plished. When we can see the homes where the children live and get 
to really know the family and have the family become acquainted with 
us, then we have a better starting point for our instruction. 

It seemed therefore that we could best meet our problem in improving 
the general health of the undernourished child by devising a plan by 
which we could make it a matter of personal interest to the child whether 
he continued in bad food habits or followed our instruction in better 
habits, and at the same time make it a matter of personal interest to 
the mother and have her feel that we were depending on her to help 
us in our eilorts. 

The preliminary steps in organizing a nutrition class are the weighing 
and measuring of the children, followed by a thorough medical examina- 
tion. Some classes admit only children who are over 7 per cent under- 
weight but we felt by the impression gathered from visits to the homes 
that there were many children who, though only 2 per cent underweight, 
would soon be over 7 per cent underweight were they to continue li\'ing 
in the existing home conditions. We therefore admit to our classes all 
children underweight and even children of normal weight if their physi- 
cal condition and their home conditions are in need of our care. It is 
interesting to know how much faith we can put in actual appearances 
in judging whether a child is underweight. In one school our dietitian 
selected from several grades the children who seemed to be underweight. 
Then she weighed and measured the whole grades. The results showed 
that many of the children selected were not underweight and many 
that seemed normal weight were really very much underweight. In 
another school the teachers were asked to select from their classes the 



1919] NUTRITION CLASSES FOR CHILDREN 475 

underweight children. One hundred and thirty-five children were se- 
lected but when these were weighed and measured it was found that 
only 94 were underweight, while 38 were overweight. 

Wlien the children have been weighed and measured and the under- 
weight ones medically examined, the next step is to have the medical 
defects removed. The nurse takes care of this; she sees that the doc- 
tor's instructions are carried out, as far as possible and as soon as possi- 
ble. Anyone who has done this kind of work appreciates what is in- 
cluded in the "as far as possible" and the "as soon as possible." Of 
course the ideal way would be to have all defects corrected before ad- 
mitting a child to the nutrition class, but we know, and social workers 
especially know, that ideals are one thing and actual conditions are 
another. We therefore remove all the defects we can and for those 
that we cannot we plan our instruction so that the children will see for 
themselves whether our recommendations are advantageous or not. 
If the boy next door has his tonsils removed and afterwards gains 
weight, that weight curve alone is of more value than hours of explana- 
tion to Tony, who has still enlarged tonsils, and to Tony's mother. 

In the selection for a place for a nutrition class we read about find- 
ing a cool quiet room. We all agree that this is very desirable indeed 
but it is not always possible. We must confess that in our beginnings 
we found neither rooms nor anything else that were particularly cool 
and quiet. I do not think we differed from other pioneers in this re- 
spect. We took what we could get, made the best of them, and aimed 
towards securing more satisfactory conditions. Our first class was held 
in a small milk station, the children were weighed on the scales used for 
weighing the babies. Now, however, we have accommodations in the 
schools that are very satisfactory. 

At the nutrition class the children are weighed once a week. The 
weekly weighings are recorded on large charts. The red line indicates 
the normal weight for height and the gain in this line is calculated ac- 
cording to the expected gain for a child of that age and sex. This brings 
in both factors of height and age. Colored stars are awarded for certain 
habits: the red star means no tea, no coffee; the blue star, cereal every 
morning; the green star, early bedtime; the silver star, clean teeth; the 
gold star the highest gain in the class for the week. How do we know 
that the children merit those stars? In answer let us say that far be 
it from us to assert that those stars represent the truth, the whole truth, 
and nothing but the truth. This is the way we secure our information 



476 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [November 

for awarding them and as we find more accurate methods we shall use 
them. We have the children keep a record of the time they get up, 
the time they eat each meal and what they eat and the time they go to 
bed. At first the children made this a daily record but we found that the 
enthusiastic ones would acquire nine and sometimes ten days for a 
week and that children in the same tenement and in the same school 
grade showed a marked similarity in their diet. So we changed the plan 
to a record of two consecutive days a week, changing these days every 
week and trjdng to \isit the homes on these days to see what was in the 
home and hear what the mother had to say. We feel that if a child is 
sufficiently interested to write down what he eats and when he eats, 
just the fact that he does this leaves some impression on his mind that 
what he eats and when he eats is in some way connected with how he 
feels. Dr. Emerson's system is also to record the food for two consecu- 
tive days. He has a special record book which is kept by the mother 
or the visitor from the clinic. In this book are given standards for judg- 
ing 100 calorie portions, and the day's food is summed up in calories. 
The mothers we are working with cannot write, and then, too, the varied 
assortment of dishes in the homes makes us hesitate at cups and calories 
and the slices of bread we see rather baffle mathematical calculation. 

At the class the weight charts are hung up and each child sees who 
has gained and who has lost and we discuss the reasons for the directions 
of the curves. 

Let us next look at the work with the mothers in the homes. Dr. 
Cabot, in his recent book on Social Work, says that he cannot empha- 
size sufficiently the great value of home visiting. He tells of the in- 
valuable help given physicians by the social service visitors of hospitals. 
They economize the physician's time, throw new light on his diagnosis 
and enable him to consider his patient from an entirely different point 
of \dew than he could ever have got from merely a clinical interview. 

When we make a suggestion to the child at the class about a certain 
change in diet we %-isit the mother and give her the same suggestion. 
In the home we get a truer opinion of why the child is undernourished, 
and therefore can offer suggestions that are more to the point than 
general class instruction. We try to avoid all negative methods of 
teaching; instead of saying "don't drink tea and coffee" we say "try 
cocoa and see if you don't feel better and gain weight." We try to 
make the better foods attractive enough so that they will fight their 
own battles against the bad ones. When the mother, in spite of every 




Ihe above chart represents a tj^ical weight chart shoTiTng the stars awarded for better 

habits. 




The above chart represents the weight curves of three sisters for the same period, 19 weeks. 





ACE 


CNDERWEICOT AT 
ADMISSION 


EXPECTED CAIN 


ACTDAICAIN 


1 

2 
3 


years 

10 
14 
S 


pounds 

7i 
2h 
7 


pounds 

1.79 
3.65 
1.56 


pounds 
9 
8i 

2 



The three sisters had enlarged tonsils; 1 and 2 had theirs removed; 3 did not until the date 
shown on the chart. The three sisters received the same care and instruction during this 
period. 

477 



478 THE joxmNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [November 

persuasion, refuses to try different foods we try to show her a better 
way of cooking what she is already using; if that fails we try to discover 
what it is we can interest her in, even though it is something entirely 
apart from our usual procedure, and in that way make our beginning 
by following the hue of least resistance. In deaUng with these ItaHan 
families we take the best of the customs and habits they brought with 
them to this country, we encourage them in the use of these and only 
suggest changes necessary for the health of children. One woman said 
to a dietitian "You know what's best, but we know what's good." 
That dietitian's problem was to find a happy medium between the best 
for taste and the good for health, and while doing so to step softly. 

The dietetic problems with which we are confronted in ItaHan dis- 
tricts are many and varied. Perhaps the biggest is the irregularity of 
meals — the children eat all things at all times. Indeed it seems to be 
the mother's greatest ambition to say that her baby can eat everything 
that the grown-up folks eat. The children's usual breakfast is coffee 
and bread. Green vegetables are used very frequently and fresh fruits 
also, but it is difficult to instill the doctrine of dried fruits. Bread is 
used in abundance. Rice and some cornmeal are the only cereals in 
common use and these never as a breakfast food. In the use of milk 
the Board of Health Milk Stations and other health agencies have 
accompHshed much. Meat is served not more than three or four times 
a week. Then there are the dishes cooked in oil and the macaroni and 
spaghetti. 

We have been fairly successful in substituting milk and cocoa for tea 
and coffee. The breakfast cereal is our most diflicult problem. There 
is the old plea of too much time, too much gas. Last Christmas we 
gave the children double boilers as Christmas prizes and in this way 
added a considerable number of cereal converts to our Hst, since we 
started speaking about double boilers early in November. One woman 
refused to use her double boiler and it was a long time before we dis- 
covered the reason. She was keeping it new and clean until she went 
back to Italy after the war. We emphasize strongly the use of milk as 
a drink, but when the children dislike it in this form we show the mother 
how to make dishes which include milk and in this way get to the chil- 
dren the amount of milk they need. 

Whatever changes in the diet we suggest, we demonstrate the prepara- 
tion to the mother in the home, on her own stove and using her own 
utensils. When we demonstrate we ask the woman to invite the neigh- 



1919] NUTRITION CLASSES FOR CHILDREN 479 

bors to come in, and in that way we are building up small classes in the 
iomes, and reaching many families we could not otherwise reach. 
Sometimes at these demonstrations we show the children's weight 
charts. 

Perhaps, as you have Ustened to the story of this work as I have 
tried to present it, the questions arise — -what happens to the child when 
he attains normal weight and is discharged from the class and what 
happens in the home when the visits are discontinued? In answer to the 
first question we have been fortunate to find that the children have been 
sufficiently interested so that they come back of their own accord from 
time to time and ask to be weighed again. In one instance a boy at- 
tained normal weight and was discharged from the class. Several 
weeks later visits to the home were also discontinued. Three months 
after this the mother came to the dietitian and told her how the boy 
had fallen and hurt himself and been quite sick and during his conva- 
lescence had refused to eat cereals for breakfast ; she added pleadingly : 
"Won't you please come in and holler at him." Where it is possible 
we try to leave in the home, or in the tenement where the home is, some 
one who will remind the family of our efforts and carry on what we have 
started. 

Our work is still in a very experimental stage and as the school year 
is not yet ended we have not the figures for the actual gains of the chil- 
dren compiled. But the weight charts show that the gains are consid- 
erably above the expected gains. The school principals and teachers 
report that the improvement in the physical condition of the children 
is reflected in their work in the class room. 

We feel very strongly that the work in the homes is the means of 
getting down to the root of our problem. We get to know the families 
and the famihes get to know us, which is just as important. When social 
workers can get away from the idea that they are visiting the homes in 
the r61e of a critic or a detective and reaHze the importance and worth 
of genuinely liking the persons they are trying to help, they can 
accomplish bigger things. 

The successful nutrition worker in the homes has to be a very 
resourceful person. Her success Ues not in her ability to plan a course 
of study and carry it out, for it is seldom she ever does what she plans. 
Her success is in her ability not to be surprised or disappointed, to 
put so much thought into her work that she considers ahead of time a 
plan for any emergency, and in her power to meet the emergency when 



480 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [November 

it arises. Much of the success of our work has been due to the good 
understanding and cooperation between the nurses and dietitians. We 
have worked together. The dietitians learn much from the nurses. 
The nurses consult with the dietitian regarding the dietetic problems of 
the famiUes and very often carry suggestions relieving the dietitian from 
the need to continue her visits. In this way the dietitian's time is 
economized for work with more special nutrition problems. 

The whole purpose of our nutrition work is to carry on the foundation 
already laid by the pre-natal work and the Baby Health Stations which 
care for the child from birth to two years. We are trying to give the 
child a chance to start life with a healthy body and to provide him with 
a workable knowledge of how to keep himself well and healthy — to start 
him with a better outlook on life. 



A METHOD OF DETERMINING THE DECOMPOSITION 
POINT OF EDIBLE FATS 

ELIZABETH C. SPRAGUE 

{With Anna Forsythe, Lila Canavan, and other students of the department) 
University of Kansas 

The difficulty of determining accurately the temperature at which 
the decomposition of fats occurs on heating, by observing the formation 
of visible fumes, led to a search for a more exact method, which resulted 
in the one to be described in this paper. It is based upon the deUcate 
fuchsin test for aldehydes, since the decomposition product (acrolein) 
in which we are most interested belongs to this class of compounds. 

The reagent, fuchsin bi-sidphite. The reagent is prepared by dissolving 
0.2 gram of rosaniUn in 10 cc. of a freshly prepared, cold, saturated 
aqueous solution of sulphur dioxid. The solution is allowed to stand 
until all signs of pink disappear and it becomes colorless or a pale yellow. 
It is diluted with water to 200 cc. and preserved for use in a closely 
stoppered bottle. 

In using, 0.05 gram or one drop of the substance to be tested is added 
to 5 cc. of the solution. The appearance, after two minutes, of a distinct 
pink, red, purple, or blue coloration indicates the presence of an aldehyde. 



1919] DECOMPOSITION POINT OF EDIBLE FATS 481 

The test to be of value must be applied under carefully regulated con- 
ditions. The reagent is reddened by alkalis, by heating, or by long 
exposure to air at ordinary temperatures. 

The method. Ha\'ing found a suitable reagent, the problem was 
simply one of bringing the fumes into contact with it. A test paper 
held in the fumes was first tried. This was unsatisfactory because the 
paper was reddened merely by the heat. A method was finally de\dsed 
whereby the fumes from the heating fat could be drawn through a 
U-tube containing the reagent. 

The apparatus. The first apparatus used consisted of a wide mouthed 
flask, ha\-ing a capacity of 125 cc. and a diameter of 2| inches, which 
was fitted with a cork carrjdng (1) a thermometer, (2) a capillary tube 
to admit air above the surface of the fat. and (3) a bent delivery tube. 
The deliver}- tube was connected with the U-tube holding the reagent 
and the latter with a smaU filter pump. The latter was adjusted so 
that air and fumes from above the fat were drawn through the U-tube 
at a constant but not a rapid rate, so that the bubbles passed slowly 
through the reagent. The slightest color in the U-tube was regarded 
as the end point. 

It was obser\-ed presently that the heat of the room was affecting 
the reagent. The apparatus was then modified by removing the U-tube 
to a greater distance from the flame and immersing it in a beaker of 
chopped ice. 

A further modification was necessary in order to heat the fat under 
more normal conditions in open vessels. Hoods were devised to fit 
different sized vessels (evaporating dishes, iron frying pans) by cutting 
the stems from funnels of suitable size and fitting the opening left with 
corks carrying the tubes, and thermometer. The method of aspirating 
by means of the filter pump worked quite as well with these arrangements 
as with the small flask. 

Application of method. Observations were made on six common fats; 
Wesson's oil, mazola, olive oil, crisco, lard compound, and rendered 
leaf lard. These fats were heated in each of the following, (1) 2| inch 
flask, (2) 3| inch evaporating dish, (3) 6 inch frying pan. The heat 
was applied so that the rise of temperature was continuous. The results 
are given in the first part of the following table. Since the action of the 
reagent is somewhat slow, it seemed possible that an error might be 
introduced on this account. Therefore samples of the same fats were 
heated in the same manner except that the heat was appUed in such a 



482 



THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS 



[November 




s s 

O J3 



c 2i 



^'S 









- a 

f.9 



^1 



1919] 



DECOMPOSITION POINT OF EDIBLE FATS 



483 



way that the temperature was held at each inten^al of 5°, beginning at 
150°C.i, for ten minutes. Under these conditions the decomposition point 
was found to be ver>' much lower than by the first method. Wesson's 
oil (cottonseed) which on continuous heating gave the test at 238 in 
the 2i inch flask, at 235° in the 3| inch evaporating dish, and at 
222° in the 6 inch frying pan, gave, by holding at 5° intervals for ten 
minutes, the same test at 210°, 210°, and 205° in the different vessels (part 
2 of table 1). Similar differences were observed in the case of each fat. 

TABLE 1 
Results obtained by using fuchsin bisulphite as a lest for acrolein 





CONIDirOUS EISE 


GRADUAL RISE OF 5" AT INTERVALS 
OF 10 lONDTES 


KIXD OF lAI 


Flask, 

diameter 2i 

inches 


Evaporating 

dish, 
diameter 3i 

inches 


Frying pan, 
diameter 
6 inches 


Flask, 

diameter 2J 

inches 


Evaporating 

dish, 

diameter i\ 

inches 


Frying pan, 

diameter 6. 

inches 




degrees C. 


degrees C. 


degrees C. 


digrecs C. 


degrees C. 


degrees C. 


1. Wesson Oil 


235 
240 


235 
234 


223 

221 


205-210 


205-210 


200-205 


Average 


238 


235 


222 








2. Mazola (corn oU) 


230 
235 


231 
229 


220 
216 


200-205 


200-205 


195-200 


Average 


233 


230 


218 








3. Olive oil 


185 
178 


179 
177 


168 
166 


165-170 


165-170 


160-165 


Average 


182 


178 


167 








4. Crisco 


234 

231 


232 
230 


221 
218 


200-205 


200-205 


195-200 


Average 


233 


231 


219 








5. Lard Compound 


228 
232 


227 
226 


216 
212 


19S-200 


195-200 


190-195 


.\verage 


230 


226 


214 








6. Leaf lard 


225 
222 


222 
220 


210 
209 


190-195 


190-195 


185-190 


Average 


223 


221 


210 









Duplicate experiments have confirmed these results, which agree with 
those of Blunt and Feeney= on smoking temperatures, showing that the 



> All temperatures referred to are Centigrade. 
' The Smoking Temperatures of Edible Fats. 
Jour. Home Econ., 7 (1915), pp. 535-541. 



Katherine Blunt and Clara M. Feeney, 



484 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [November 

greater the surface exposed the lower will be the temperature at which 
acrolein is formed. In order to eliminate the possible error due to the 
character of the container, fats were heated in a 7| inch evaporating dish 
and also in the same size iron frying pan. There was practically no 
difference in results. The acidity of the samples was not determined 
but all portions of the different fats tested were from the same sample. 

This method seems to give very satisfactory results and offers evidence 
that the decomposition point of all fats is much lower than we have 
been accustomed to beheve. Our results have emphasized the impor- 
tance of the use of as low a temperature as possible in deep fat frying. 
In a series of experiments in making potato chips, lattice potatoes, and 
Julienne potatoes, we have found that the best results were obtained 
at 170° to 175° for potato chips, at 160° to 165° for lattice potatoes and 
Julienne. These temperatures gave products which were evenly and 
delicately browned, delicious in flavor, and retained their crispness even 
when cold. In no case was there a strong flavor of decomposed fat. 

When the temperature was kept low, reheating seemed to have Uttle 
effect upon the quahty of the fat for cooking purposes. A lot of crisco 
was reheated thirty times, 100 grams of potatoes cooked in it each 
time and at the end it was merely a little creamy when cold. There 
was no evidence of "scorching." In another case a kettle of 5 pounds 
of fat was reheated eight times, and during the process 25| pounds of 
potato chips (raw) were fried. The remaining fat was still very light 
colored. In both cases the fat had been heated to 185° but the temper- 
ature was reduced to the proper point by the addition of the potatoes. 



PUTTING OVER BUDGET LESSONS 

JANET G. CATION 
Extension Clothing Specialist, Iowa State College 

During the past year, the writer has had occasion to confer with three 
himdred and fifty home economics teachers. When she has asked the 
question, "Do you teach the Clothing Budget?" she usually has received 



1919] PUTTING OVER BUDGET LESSONS 485 

one of two answers: "I expect to if our sewing is done in time," or "This 
is only a one-year course so we cannot include it." 

Account keeping should be included in the first year's home economics 
course, for a girl may not have a second year. Girls should keep their 
personal accounts all through the year so that they may have a founda- 
tion for budget study, if it is desirable to put this at the end of the 
year. A study of the budget should be the foundation upon which the 
clothing course is built. The home economics teacher who is failing to 
show the girls the many ways in which they can keep down clothing 
expenses is missing a great opportimity. 

The following summary of eight lessons, taught by the writer at a 
Farm Camp,' is reproduced to show one way in which clothing lessons 
may be linked up with budget work. 

BUDGET LESSONS AT THE CLARINDA FARM CAMP 

Twenty-six girls were enrolled, ranging in age from fourteen to eighteen 
years. Most of them attended town or consoHdated school; all but one 
had had at least one year of home economics; not one had ever had 
any budget work. 

The first day they were asked to answer these questions : 

1. Do you know how much your clothes cost last year? One girl 
knew, 25 did not know. 

2. How much do you think your clothes cost? The answers were as 
follows: 3 thought $20-S40, 5 thought $50, 5 thought $60-$80, 4 thought 
$80-100, 4 thought $100, 3 thought $150, 3 thought $200. 

3. Do you have an allowance? Six did, 20 did not. 

4. To what extent do you select your own clothing? Two selected 
all of their clothing; all helped select it, really deciding for the most 
part what they would buy, and selecting patterns for garments made 
at home. As best they could they figured what their clothing cost 
for last year; the lowest cost was $95; the highest, $250. The figures 
were, of course, not accurate, for since the girls were away from home 
they could write only what they remembered. All of them found many 
superfluous things in their wardrobes that they will try to avoid next 
year. 

Together they worked out the following budget as suitable for a 
school girl living in the country or small town : 

' Held in connection with the Chautauqua of Clarinda, Iowa. 



486 



THE JOXmNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS 



[November 



CLOTHING BUDGET 



KIND OF GAEMEN 



Oulergarmenis 



Winter coat 

Sweater 

Cape (made at home) 

Rain coat 

School dress (made at home) 

Best dress (wool or silk) 

1 wool skirt 

1 flannel middy 

1 white skirt 

1 middy (2 left over) 

1 gingham dress (made at home) 

1 percale dress (made at home) 

1 voile dress (made at home; worn as best dress even to 
parties) 

2 bungalow aprons 

Total 

Undergarments 

3 union suits @ S2 .00 

3 gauze vests @ SOji 

3 "teddies" (made at home) @ 15i 

2 outing gowns @ $1.50 

2 muslin gowns @ Sl.OO 

1 white petticoat 

1 gingham petticoat (made from old gingham dresses) .... 
1 winter petticoat (sateen) 

1 pair gjTn bloomers 

Kimona 

2 corsets @ $2.00 

Total 

Hats and Gloves 



$16.00 


2 


8.00 


2 


7.00 


2 


6.00 


4 


8.00 


2 


11.50 


2 


5.00 


2 


5.00 


2 


2.50 


2 


2.00 


1 


3.00 


1 


2.00 


1 


5.00 


1 


3.00 


1 







6.00 


2 


1.50 


2 


2.25 


1 


3.00 


3 


2.00 


2 


2.00 


2 


1.50 


1 


4.00 


4 


2.50 


2 


4.00 


1 









4.00 

5.00 

2.00 

.50 


2 
2 
3 
1 


2.00 




2.50 




.67 




.50 






Total 






$5.67 







1919] 



PUTTING OV'ER BUDGET LESSONS 



487 



Shoes and stockings 

2 pairs school shoes @ S6.00 

1 pair rubbers 

1 pair low black shoes 

1 pair low white shoes 

6 pairs cotton stockings 

2 pairs silk stockings 

Shoe repairs 

Total 

il iscellaneous 

1 middy tie 

3 ribbons 

Hair pins and toilet articles 

Handkerchiefs 

Total 

Summary 



12.00 


1 


1.00 


1 


6.50 


2 


4.00 


2 


3.00 


1 


3.00 


1 


5.00 


1 







12,00 
1.00 
3.25 
2.00 
3.00 
3.00 
5.00 



S29 . 25 



.75 


1 


3.00 


1 


2.50 


1 


2.00 


1 







.75 
3.00 
2.50 
2.00 



$S.25 




Outergarments 

Undergarments 

Hats and gloves . . . . 
Shoes and stockings 
Aliscellaneous 

Total 



The Other five lessons were given over to ways of keeping down the 
clothing expense, notwithstanding high prices. The girls were taught 
to make a bunch of yarn flowers for their fall hats. The materials cost 
only a quarter for flowers which sold for two dollars in the stores. The 
girls were especially delighted when they discovered that the town 
milliner was wearing a new fall hat trimmed with the same kind of 
flowers. One lesson was spent in making several inexpensive dress 
finishes. On the last day, the subject was "Prolonging the life of 
clothing by taking the best possible care of it." A wool dress, which 
had been put away dirty and with the pocket torn, was mended and 
cleaned. Grease spots and ink stains were taken out of other garments. 
Two shoes, one with a toe plate, the other without, were compared. 
The comparison of the dress hung over a hook and the one put away on 
a hanger told its own story. 



488 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [November 

HOUSEHOLD ARTS AND THE HIGH SCHOOL GIRL 

What Oxje Girls Have a Right to Receive from a Two Year 

High School Course in Household Arts, and How Their 

Interest in The Subject May Be Stimulated 

nancy g. gladish 

Austin High School, Chicago 

Let US Start vnth the premise that over 90 per cent of our girls will 
be in their own homes within a few years. That whatever they may 
do for the four to ten years after leaving school, the end of that time- 
will find them administering the affairs of a home. This means plan- 
ning, buying, and from now on will doubtless mean doing a great deal 
of actual work on account of the scarcity of help. What shall we teach 
them that will aid them the most when these tasks fall upon their im- 
accustomed shoulders? 

One of the important problems will be that of buying, and to meet 
it ample training in textile shopping should be given. For every gar- 
ment, there should be thoroughly taught a list of suitable materials,, 
with standard prices, special qualitites, and the amount needed to 
make the garment. Drill upon this until it is as familiar as the girl's 
own name. Follow this up by a study of the essentials of house furnishing. 
Let lists be made of all textile articles used in the bedroom; show as 
many samples as possible, ascertain prices, draw out comparisons. Have 
the pupils plan the furnishings for an ideal bedroom, taking into con- 
sideration prices and durability, position and exposure of room, as well 
as personal taste. Then have the expenditures cut down, leaving out 
superfluities, and weighing the value of various economies, until the 
girls have, as a foundation for bedroom furnishing, a list of the bare 
necessities, with a clear idea of where money can be saved and when it 
is wise to spend freely, — the wisdom, for instance, of selecting good 
blankets which will last a life time, and spending less upon curtains and 
draperies, that are transient things. 

Let this be followed up with the living room, dining room, and kitchen. 
Let the girls handle samples, ask questions, compare Hsts, and take 
notes. A tiny memorandxmi book will keep in a small space aU the data 
they want, and they will like to write it up and refer to it in the class 
discussions on the wise spending of money. 



1919] HOUSEHOLD ARTS AND THE HIGH SCHOOL GIRL 489 

Brief drills are most valuable at this point, with the use of an outline 
which calls for a textile article for a certain type of room, two or three 
fabrics that are usable for the purpose, with the width, price, and special 
suitability of each. Quick recitations fix the points in the mind as 
nothing else will do except actual buying, and that is not always possible. 

Half yard lengths of carpeting — Body Brussels, Wilton, Axminster, 
Tapestry Brussels, and Ingrain, — will interest the pupils and give them 
a starting point for some knowledge of floor coverings. They will 
become fascinated with the study of oriental rugs, if this is presented 
to them from the broad standpoint of materials, colors, designs, shapes, 
uses, and values. 

Table linen is another subject they thoroughly enjoy. They should 
know why flax is so scarce now, when we may hope to have an abundant 
supply again, what substitutes are in the market, and how to make the 
most of the linen we still have. Samples of sufficient size to be easily 
handled and compared are essential. These must, of course, be bought, 
as must the samples of carpeting, but it is money well spent and part 
of a textile teacher's equipment, and when a stock is secured it lasts for 
years. Samples of woolen, cotton, and silk materials can generally be 
procured without buying, and pictures illustrating all processes of pro- 
duction can be found in magazines and advertisements just for the 
slight trouble of keeping one's eyes open. 

All this instruction takes surprisingly httle school time. A few min- 
utes of presentation, discussion of samples, and directions for outside 
work, and the subject is well underway. Short snappy drills and re\aews 
take but a brief time and while the girls are sewing they are exchanging 
opinions and information on textiles, instead of gossiping about the 
last party. The teacher's knowledge, interest, and pleasure in the 
subject makes its enthusiastic reception by the pupils a very certain 
thing. 

A limited amount of costume design should be given. Using the 
current fashion magazines, select costumes which show grace and strength, 
and also those that are poor in line or decoration. A very little stress 
upon this will open the eyes of the pupils to the principles of good line, 
and start them on the road to a better choice of patterns. A costume 
becoming to a medium figure can be altered to suit very sUght and 
extremely heavy persons without losing the basic plan of the design. 

The girls will enjoy a little color work, making combinations of har- 
monies and contrasts, suiting colors to different complexions, eyes, and 



490 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [November 

hair. Large pieces of inexpensive materials, in good shades, are valuable 
for this, as they can be draped about the shoulders of different pupils, 
and the effect noted. They will readily see the desirabihty of consider- 
ing the personaHty, as well as the complexion, and that the texture of 
material is almost as important as the shade. 

Every point of contact should be utilized — the art of design, the 
chemistiy of dyeing and printing, the industrial life of the textile workers, 
the hygiene of the fibres, the sheer joy in pretty materials and lovely 
colors. Let us use all these, so that a piece of azure or orchid silk will 
not mean only dress goods at so much per yard, but will suggest mul- 
berry trees, Japanese or Itahan girls at their careful task of rearing 
silk- worms, the aid of the dye chemist, the skill of the weaver, and the 
pleasure of the artist in a beautiful fabric and a satisfying color. 

As to the actual sewing instruction, most girls have some foundation 
of technical knowledge by the time high school is reached, but we must 
begin as though they had none, giving definite instructions and requiring 
demonstrations of the simplest processes, and at once selecting and 
listing for special help the ones who cannot follow directions. Give 
public recognition to those who do well, and let them act as helpers 
and instructors to the weaker ones. A girl who sews badly, placed by 
one who sews well, absorbs much indirect help just by observation and 
example, and is stimulated to succeed so that she may share in the praise 
her seat mate is receiving. Our tendency has been to accept good 
work as a matter of course, concentrating our efforts on criticism of 
poor work, but experience shows us that a reversal of method saves 
much friction and preserves pleasanter relations between class and 
instructor. 

Keep good work before them, have well made models which they can 
inspect as often as they wdsh, and thus form in their minds ideals of 
proper teclmique. Of course the day of model books has passed, but 
it is certainly wise to let a pupil try a new seam on a scrap of cloth, and 
have it inspected, corrected, and approved before she uses it on a garment. 
If she can make two inches of a good fell or hem, she can make an indefi- 
nite number of inches if she cares to, and when she knows that she will 
receive pubhc mention as soon as she attains a certain degree of pro- 
ficiency, she will undoubtedly do her best. 

Ripping out work should be reduced to the minimum, as it discourages 
the pupil and injures the cloth. Of course there is occasionally an 
absolute necessity for ripping, but a Httle foresight, and the right spirit 



1919] HOUSEHOLD ARTS AKD THE HIGH SCHOOL GIRL 491 

in the class will reduce it wonderfully. Let us use a positive suggestion, 
not saying, "Now girls, if you sew carelessly, you will have to rip out 
your work," but instead something of this order, — "It is very unpleasant 
to have to rip out work, it takes time that you might be putting into 
another garment, and it spoils your material. Let us prevent it. Bring 
your work to me very often. Show me every basted seam before you 
stitch it. Try your machine on a scrap of cloth before you sew on 
your garment, and let us finish this set of waists, (or whatever the model 
may be) without a single girl having to rip a stitch of machine sewing." 
Then if it is done, and it often is, celebrate the event. Write upon the 
board for the other classes to see that class 1-13, 3rd hr., made a set 
of thirty-five waists \vithout a single girl having to rip her work. Of 
course we often accept poor sewing, but if we do not expect perfect 
work when we teach writing, EngHsh, or mathematics, why should we 
expect it here? The girl who does a bad piece of seam work may be 
extra good in careful, economical cutting, or in wise shopping. Shall 
she be prevented from going on to the next garment because she has 
not yet gained the skill of hand to make a perfect seam? Will she not 
overcome her difficulties more rapidly if she is allowed to finish the first 
garment and make a second one, than if she spends time in chscouraged 
ripping? 

One danger in our sewing classes is that we shall work too slowly. 
Speed is one of the essentials of modern life, and we do our pupils an 
injustice if we permit them to dawdle, dilly dally, or even spend too 
much time in careful fussy detail. It is better that they should work 
with reasonable speed even if the results are not so good in the beginning, 
and then improve in technique through repetition. The making of 
two garments, the first rather poor, and the second considerably im- 
proved, but with a good speed consistently maintained, is much better 
for the girl's future work than one garment well done, but made slowly, 
since the slow habit will probably continue through life. 

The amount of sewing that should be accomplished in the first year 
of high school is always an open question. For several years in classes 
meeting five full hours weekly, we have made our minimum requirement 
thirteen garments that include four undergarments, a kimono, and 
two types of waisi in the first semester; three specially nice undergar- 
ments, a waist, and two dresses in the second semester. This means 
keeping the thought of speed before the students, and accepting, in the 
beginning, work that is not always creditable; but by the end of the 



492 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [November 

year the results more than justify the plan, for the girls have speed, 
wider knowledge of fabrics and shopping, more opportunities for cutting 
and construction, and have by many repetitions gained good technique. 
They have acquired the knowledge they will need in their homes as 
they could not have done in making a few carefully finished garments. 
The pleasure and pride the girls feel in the large nimiber of usable 
garments they have made, in the actual assistance they have been to 
the mother in clothing the family, and in the self rehance and confidence 
in their abihty to shop wisely ,^ — these are some of the good results of 
the course. 

In the second year more is made of the budget for the di\ision of the 
entire income and also the clothing budgets for young girls and women 
in various occupations. The keeping of a personal clothing account is 
encouraged so that expenditures may be watched and compared. A 
simple form has been planned that can be kept for the year on one sheet 
of paper, under the headings: Underwear, Outside clothing. Shoes, 
Millinery, Repairs, and Cleaning. The total can be ascertained at 
any time by simply adding the columns, and it is interesting and helpful 
to know just where one stands. 

A httle work is done in house planning, not so much constructive as 
critical. There are many easily obtainable plans made by persons who 
give all their time to this work. Let us choose from them the one that 
suits the housekeeper of modest means, who must do her own work and 
who has in addition the care of a young child. How should that plan 
differ from the one for the grown up family with several daughters? 
House furnishings must be touched upon, just enough to give a starting 
point of intelHgent shopping. 

The millinery is given in the second year, six weeks each in the fall 
and spring; and the deUght of a girl in a pretty hat that she has made, 
at one-third the expense of a purchased one, is one of the many compen- 
sations of a teacher's life. 

The high school age is the psychological time for a girl to want to 
make beautiful things to wear. Let us utiHze this natural impulse, 
and let her make all the articles she possibly can; let everything be for 
immediate use, give her all the freedom of choice of material and pattern 
that is practicable for good results, praise unstintedly, recognize ability 
of every kind, and we shall send out a host of happy, confident, useful 
girls who will, within a few years, be making the harmonious well ordered 
homes which America must have. 



1919] VOCATIONAL TRAINING FOR GIRLS 493 

VOCATIONAL TRAINING FOR GIRLS 

GRETA GRAY 

University of Wyoming, Laramie 

The Smith-Hughes Bill has facilitated and hastened a great advance 
in education. For too long we have trained at public expense, in the 
public schools, only a part of the world's workers, while the training 
of the majority has been left to other agencies. Our colleges and uni- 
versities are vocational schools where students may master a profession; 
our high schools are preparatory schools for the colleges and universities; 
and the upper grades of the elementary schools are preparatory schools 
for high schools, so that unless pupils expect to go on to college and there 
learn to earn a living, apparently an utter impossibihty for most folks, 
it seems to many children and to their parents that there is little school 
can do for them after they have learned "reading, riting and rithme- 
tic." Consequently we find that most children leave school before 
finishing the first eight grades. We find them begiiming to drop out in 
large numbers from the fifth grade and in larger numbers from the sixth 
grade. In some places this coincides with the age limit for compulsory 
attendance, and in most places with the age at which the boy or girl can 
get a job of some sort. It matters not that this is a poorly paid job 
with no advancement possible, it gives the child money that is his own; 
besides he could not get a better job even if he were to stay in school 
two or three years more, and two or three years to a sLxth or seventh 
grade boy or girl is a long long way to look ahead, and three dollars a 
week is an immense sum, and, above all, school is dull compared with 
the beckoning world without. 

Schools are at fault. We recognize the principle that education 
should be universal, and that in a democracy every one should be trained 
in citizenship; but education is not universal, our schools let most of the 
future citizens slip away before they know what democracy and citizen- 
ship mean. 

The Smith-Hughes Bill was designed to stimulate the public schools 
to make proper provisions to hold on to these youngsters who at present 
are rushing away from it, by offering them, when they are fourteen 
years of age, training which will enable them to get a better job than 
they can without it, training for some trade or for agricultural work, 
and training for citizenship at the same time. This it does by giving 



494 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [November 

federal monetary aid to those schools which meet its requirements. 
It also provides for aid for such schools as give agricultural, trade, or 
industrial training to men and women long out of school, who, for one 
reason or another, desire such training. The trade or industrial training 
includes preparation for such work as that of printer, machinist, welder, 
dressmaker, milliner, cook, and so forth. 

A certain part of this money provided by congress is set aside for 
aiding schools gi\'ing courses in vocational home economics to girls in 
elementary or high schools, or to girls and women out of school who 
want such work, because it is conceded that homemaking is the vocation 
into which most girls eventually go. 

When we see what poor housekeepers and homemakers many women 
are we feel the need for vocational training in home economics in order 
to forestall the otherwise inevitable course in the school of bitter expe- 
rience. Courses in sanitation applied to the household, cooking, care 
of children, would improve health conditions. Courses in selection and 
care of clothing, the management of the income, would improve the 
financial status of most families. A course in sociology applied to the 
family, and a course in the training of children would surely improve 
familial relations. 

There is undoubtedly a tremendous need for courses in vocational 
home economics. Most women, the percentage varying in different 
parts of the world, marry sooner or later. The tendency seems to be to 
marry later, many women spending from five to fifteen years in industry 
before marriage. This means that more than half of our girls do not 
have use for the training in vocational home economics until they 
have been out of school from five to fifteen years — or at least have use 
for only a limited amount of it. The question I wish to discuss is — 
"When should this training be given?" Shall we give it in the elemen- 
tary, or in the high school, or shall we give it in classes organized for 
those who will have immediate need of it? 

The good housekeeper must still be skilled in a number of trades, the 
successful homemaker is often made so by the temperament with which 
she is born, but a homemaker may be evolved from unpromising 
material by careful teaching. Complete training in housekeeping and in 
home making can not be given in a short time, it must extend over 
months and years. Because of this and of the almost universal need for 
training along these lines some educators say "let us require such 
work of all girls in the public schools." Others say that if such train- 



1919] VOCATIONAL TRAINING FOR GIRLS 495 

ing is to be given years before it is needed, much of it, most of it, will 
be forgotten; and, besides, that it will not be so well absorbed when there 
is no immediate need for it, that it may be given much more effectively 
and economically at the time when it is needed. But say those of the 
first group, "we can require it of school girls, and we have the organiza- 
tion to give it to them then; it can not be required of grown women 
out of school, and how would such classes be organized?" The second 
group replies that organization is a mere detail, tliat while homemaking 
and training could be reqmred if it were wise to do so, with the right 
kind of courses it will not be necessary to compel women to take them; 
they wiU accept them with eagerness. 

Because home economics courses are common in our schools and can 
easily be modified to meet the requirements of the Smith-Hughes law, 
because men manage the schools, and because they are imbued with the 
idea that woman's place is in the home, and because they like good food 
and conceive of home economics as being chiefly cooking, the members 
of the first group are the ones likely to prevail; the already existing 
courses will be modified and extended, and all girls, possibly, in some 
places, required to take this work. The greatest danger in this is that 
with well developed vocational home economics courses in the high 
school there will be a tendency not to provide such courses for those 
out of school. 

Looking at the matter from the point of view of the girl and woman 
there are several reasons why it seems a mistake to emphasize vocational 
home economics in the regular day school: 

1. It seems to make matrimony the sole aim for girls. If they take 
vocational home economics work they carmot in most cases take any 
other vocational work, their only way of earning a living will be by 
housekeeping, they will not always freely choose marriage, for marriage 
will be the only course open to them. 

2. There will be many who will have no opportunity to marry, since 
there are more women than men in the world, and, besides, some of the 
men prefer single blessedness. Training for homemaking does not ensure 
a husband, since men do not choose their wives for housekeeping ability, 
nor homemaking talent. 

3. Since most girls marry from five to fifteen years after they leave 
school there will be many wasted years spent waiting for a man who 
comes late or never, years which should be spent in useful work. 



496 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [November 

4. Habits of idleness are likely to develop during these years of 
idleness. 

5. Training given so long before it is needed will be to a large extent 
forgotten. 

6. A woman whose only training is in housekeeping has a hard time 
to earn her living if she is thrown upon her own resources, either before 
or after marriage. 

Emphasizing vocational home economics in the regular day schools 
with the consequent necessary exclusion of other vocational training 
seems reactionary, a step back to the first part of the nineteenth cen- 
tury, when an unmarried woman was contemptuously called an old 
maid, and spent her Hfe a dependent, although often at hard work, in 
the household of some relative. Since that time women have proved 
themselves successful in almost every trade, business, and profession, 
and during this time the standards of the home have been steadily rising, 
due in a very large degree to the broader education and the deeper in- 
sight the modern woman has gained by contact with the world outside 
the home. Conditions in the working world have also rapidly improved, 
largely due to the presence of women in factory and store. Unques- 
tioningly, we legislate to protect women in industry, to insure them 
healthful surroundings, to limit the working day, to establish a mini- 
mum wage, and it is but a step further to do this for men as well. 
Woman has given, and has received, by stepping out from the home. 
Business experience, trade experience, professional experience, does not 
injure a woman as a potential wife and mother; rather, it improves her. 
She learns the value of money, she learns to care for her health, her mind 
is sharpened, she learns the lessons of industry, loyalty, promptness, 
courage, perseverance, cooperation, self reliance, and a dozen others of 
inestimable value to the wife and mother. 

In the light of these facts let us do this — offer every possible oppor- 
tunity for training in housekeeping and homemaking to those who are 
engaged in those occupations, or who are soon to engage in them, but in 
our elementary and high schools give girls the kind of vocational work 
which will fit them to earn a Uving in some trade or business, just as we 
give such training to boys. 

We must never, however, lose sight of the fact that no matter what 
vocational work the boy or girl is taking, the accompanying training for 
citizenship should include cultivating a strong healthy body, and learn- 
ing and practicing the rules of hygiene, including the selection of food 



1919] VOCATIONAL TRAINING FOE GIRLS 497 

-and clothing and shelter. Training for citizenship should also include 
teaching the responsibilities of marriage and of parenthood. Boys as 
well as girls need to learn these things, for it takes two to establish a 
home, and while a woman may be a perfect housekeeper without her 
husband's help, she cannot be a successful homemaker without his 
cooperation. 

Under the provisions of the Smith-Hughes Bill each state has a 
Director of Vocational Education, in every state but one a man. Most 
states have as well a State Superv-isor of Trade and Industrial Training, 
again a man. These men overlook the trades and industries open to 
-girls and women, and center their work on those for boys. This is 
wrrong, for girls should be given the same opportunities as boys. Al- 
most every state has a State Supervisor of Vocational Home Economics, 
usually a woman who has spent her life in home economics work, is 
imbued with the missionary idea, and wants to convert every girl to 
an interest in foods, clothing, and shelter. Every one interested in edu- 
cation, in woman's rights, and in the forward movement of the race, 
needs to wake up to see where the interests and enthusiasms of these 
three persons are directing the Smith-Hughes funds. 

The June number of the Journal of Home Economics gives us the 
text of a tentative bill for the promotion of Vocational Home Economics 
Education, which makes better provisions for this than does the Smith- 
Hughes Bill. The provision that not more than one-third the sum ap- 
propriated to any state may be used for salaries of teachers in schools 
or classes for those who have not entered upon employment is especially 
good. Perhaps we will iind it best not to use as much as this once we 
have other classes well under way. In the meantime let us do what we 
can to secure for girls and women a fair share of the Smith-Hughes 
money provided for industrial training. 



498 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [November 

THE LEGISLATIVE PROGRAM OF THE AMERICAN HOME 
ECONOMICS ASSOCIATION 

In view of the increasing interest in promoting Home Economics 
Education through legislative enactments the American Home Eco- 
nomics Association at its annual meeting at Blue Ridge, N. C, decided 
to enlarge the legislative committee and extend its activities by develop- 
ing a state organization. 

A representative of the Association has been appointed in each state, 
one of whose duties is to keep the women of her state informed of pro- 
posed or needed measures affecting home economics interests, and to> 
enlist the active support of all women's organizations for such legislation. 

It will also be the duty of this chairman to see that the Congressmen 
of her state are made familiar with such measures and are informed of 
the attitude of the women of the state toward them. 

Each member of the Association is asked to put herself in touch with 
her State Chairman and offer her services in furthering the legislative- 
program. 

At the present time there is before Congress a bill introduced by 
Senator Reed Smoot providing a small fund for each state for research, 
in Home Economics. The bill (S. 2380) was presented on July 8, 
1919 and was read twice and referred to the Committee on Agriculture 
and Forestry. The value of such state appropriation for research has- 
been satisfactorily demonstrated in the case of Agriculture, and the- 
Smoot bill should receive the unanimous endorsement and active sup- 
port of every woman interested in progress in homemaking. 

Another bill in contemplatation at the present time is one "to pro- 
vide for cooperation with the states in the promotion of Vocational 
Education in Home Economics and to appropriate money and regulate- 
its expenditures." 

This bill has been submitted to various state departments of Voca- 
tional Education and revised in the light of the suggestions which have 
been received. While it has not seemed wise to bring this bill before 
the present session, there is reason to believe that it will be introduced 
at an early date and it also will need the active support of the Com- 
mittee and the Association. 

The arguments for this bill were given in detail in the article which 
appeared in the June number of the Journal. The article may be- 
summarized briefly as follows: 



1919] LEGISLATIVE PROGRAM 499" 

1. The administration of Home Economics funds should be unham- 
pered by the rules for Trade and Industrj-. 

2. Better financial support for Home Economics education is needed. 

3. The distribution of funds for Home Economics should be on the- 
basis of total population rather than on the basis of urban population. 

4. Increased funds are needed for administration and research in 
Home Economics. 

Two changes have been made in the wording of the bill since it was- 
published in the June Journal. One provides that such education, 
shall be conducted in schools or classes which are under public super- 
vision or control; the other provides that at least one third of the sum 
appropriated to any state shall be expended for the salaries of teachers 
in evening or part time classes especially designed for those who have 
already entered upon emplo^Tnent. 

Part of the text of the Smoot Bill follows: 

A BILL TO PROVIDE FOR AN INCREASED ANNUAL APPROPRIATION TOR AGRICUL- 
TURAL EXPERIMENT STATIONS, TO BE USED IN RESEARCHES AND EXPERI- 
MENTS IN HOME ECONOMICS, AND REGULATING THE EXPENDITURE THEREOF 

Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the United States 
of America in Congress assembled, That there shall be, and hereby is, perma- 
nently appropriated out of any money in the Treasury not otherwise appro- 
priated, to be paid as hereinafter provided, annually to each State and Terri- 
tory for the more complete endowment and maintenance of agricultural 
experiment stations now established or which may hereafter be established in 
accordance with an Act of Congress approved March 2, 1887, and Acts sup- 
plementary thereto, except that in States in which the experiment station 
established under said Act did not on July 1, 1919, have a department for 
the investigation of home economics, the beneficiary of this Act shall be that 
institution which is now receiving the benefits of an Act approved May 8, 
1914,' to provide for cooperative extension work in agriculture and home 
economics, the sum of §2,500 in addition to the sums named in said Acts, be- 
ginning with the fiscal year ending June 30, 1917, to be applied only to paying 
the necessary expenses of conducting original or confirmatory researches and 
experiments bearing directly on home economics, including both domestic 
science and domestic art, and printing and disseminating the results of said 
researches or experiments, having due regard to the varying conditions and 
needs of the respective States and Territories. 

' Smith Lever funds. 



500 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [November 

Sec. 2. That for the purposes specified in section 1 of this Act there are also 
appropriated, to be paid, as hereinafter provided, to each State and Territory 
an additional sum of $2,500 for the fiscal year ending June 30, 1918, and an 
additional sum of $5,000 for the fiscal year ending June 30, 1919, and an 
additional sum of $7,500 for each fiscal year thereafter. No payment, out of 
the sums appropriated by this section, shall be made in any year to any State 
or Territory until a sum equal to that appropriated by this section for each 
State and Territory has been appropriated by its legislature, or has been 
otherwise made available for that year by State, county, experiment station, 
or local authority for maintenance of cooperative research work and experi- 
ments under this Act. 

Sec. 3. That cooperative research work and experiments shall be car- 
ried on in such manner as may be mutually agreed upon by the Secretary of 
Agriculture and the State or territorial experiment stations receiving the 
benefits of this Act. Bulletins or reports of progress, giving the results of 
researches or experiments in home economics, shall be published by said sta- 
tions from time to time, and shall be distributed free of charge in accordance 
with such plans as the Secretary of Agriculture and the experiment stations 
may agree upon. 

Sec. 5. No portion of said moneys shall be applied, directly or indirectly, 
imder any pretense whatever, to the purchase, erection, preservation, or 
repair of any building or buildings, or to the purchase or rental of land, or to 
the compensation of any person engaged during the same period in the per- 
formance of any duties other than conducting researches or experiments bear- 
ing directly on home economics, or printing and disseminating the results 
thereof. 

Both of these bills are being actively supported by the Federation of 
Women's Clubs under the leadership of Mrs. Greene the national chair- 
man for Home Economics and they should be pushed by every profes- 
sional worker in Home Economics. 

A list of the State Chairmen and of the members of the Educational 
Committee of the Senate and House will be published in the Bulletin 
of the Association. 



FOR THE HOMEMAKER 

A PLEA FOR THE PRESCHOOL AGE 

DOROTHY REED MENDENHALL 
Children's Bureau, Washington, D. C. 

One of the undeniable benefits that war has brought to us is a hastened 
awakening of national responsibility for the welfare of our child popu- 
lation. The rejections in the first draft for our national army demon- 
strated to the pubhc the need of an active crusade to save our children. 
It is well known that almost one-third of the men examined in the first 
draft were found incapable of serving their country, from either serious 
disability or disease. An analysis of the causes for these rejections 
proved them to be largely of a preventable nature, the result of unin- 
telligent care or of neglect in early childhood. 

Moved by such conclusive proof of the need for physical improvement 
of the nation and by an appreciation of the detrimental effect of war 
on children, all agencies engaged in child welfare work in this country 
quickened their activities. The Children's Year, inaugurated by the 
Children's Bureau, has been one means of drawing people's attention 
to the bad conditions already acting detrimentally to the life, health, 
and possibility for normal development of our children, of emphasizing 
parental responsibility in these matters, and of pointing out the desir- 
abiUty of continuity of State supervision of the child from the prenatal 
stage through adolescence. 

War has always been a great menace to child life. It is no exaggeration 
to say there is scarcely any phase of childhood in the United States that 
has not suffered injury during the past years. This could not well be 
otherwise, with the tremendous, widespread increase in the cost of 
living that has occurred since 1914, even in this country which has 
suffered least in the war. 

According to the Monthly Labor Review for November, 1918, the 
average retail price for the staple articles of food had increased 72 per 
cent in the United States during the five year period from September, 

501 



502 TKE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [November 

1913, to September, 1918.^ Every article for which prices were secured 
had increased 56 per cent or over, five articles had increased over 100 
per cent, and milk, the indispensable food for infancy and childhood 
had increased 61 per cent. The evil effect of this general marked 
increase in the cost of living is well demonstrated by the considerable 
<iisuse of milk for children past infancy that took place in our large cities 
as the price of this commodity rose. Even the most ignorant mother 
"has become educated to the necessity of providing cows' milk for the 
young infant, but the general public has not yet awakened to the impor- 
tance of mUk in the diet of the growing child. Studies made by the 
Children's Bureau last year in Washington, D. C, Baltimore, Marjdand, 
and New Orleans, Louisiana, showed that comparatively little milk 
"was given to children between two and seven years of age, and that 
tea and coffee were the usual substitutes for milk. In the Washington 
families studied 45 per cent of these young children were having no 
fresh milk to drink, in Baltimore 66 per cent, and in New Orleans 70 
per cent. In Baltimore, where the families had been under observation 
for some time, a marked decrease (from 60 to 29 per cent) in the number 
•of such children drinking milk over the number drinking milk 
the year before could be demonstrated. More than this, the average 
daily amount of milk purchased by the families using some milk was 
only two pints and the famihes studied included at least six persons, 
two of these children under eight. In four-fifths of the families there 
■were children under two. 

There can be no doubt that the most important single factor in the 
chance of the child for health and the realization of his possibilities is 
that the father's earnings or income should be suiScient for the essential 
needs of the family. This economic basis for child welfare is often 
forgotten in our interest in some special aspect of the child problem. 
The minimum family income, or the income necessary to allow of health 
and unimpaired efficiency in a normal family of five, consisting of fathre, 
mother, and three children, has undoubtedly increased tremendously 
in the last few years in this country. It is stated to have doubled in 
the past three years in New York City. Recently before a United 
States Senate committee hearing on the subject, $1500 was the amount 
set as the minimum income for a family of five, in the District of Colum- 
bia, at the present time. According to a recent report of Miss Florence 

' Up to August 1919, the increase had been 91 per cent. 



1919] A PLEA FOR THE PRESCHOOL AGE 503 

Nesbitt, then Director of the Food Conservation Section of the Cleve- 
land Women's Committee of the Council of National Defense, the sum 
-needed in Cleveland and in Toledo, Ohio, for the maintenance of a 
normal family is practically the same. 

How many families are living near this minimum today — or below 
it — is shown by the recent estimate given in the New York Evening Post 
that over 90 per cent of families in the United States are Kvdng on $2000 
■or less. 

The cost of food, of course, is not the only feature in the family budget 
that has been increased by war, but food is most fundamental in its 
relation to growth in childhood. In the old estimates of the family 
budget, the food allowance used to be given as from 15 to 25 per cent 
•of the family income. According to studies made within the last year 
in several of our large cities, it now takes from 40 to 60 per cent of 
incomes around SIOOO to buy sufficient food for a family of five, even 
when the purchasing and selection are made intelligently. 

In an analysis of the diets in families with incomes ranging from $640 
to $2500 that is being carried on by the Office of Home Economics, 
U. S. Department of Agriculture,^ the cost for a man's food for one day 
in New York City was found to range from 32 to 56 cents. The lowest 
■expenditure for the total day's food (3230 calories) and the highest 
number of calories purchased for 1 cent (90 calories) was in the mother 
wage earner group, while the highest cost of a day's meal was in the 
professional group. The average for the whole group was 46 cents a 
•day. Studies in other cities under various auspices corroborate the 
fact that a man's weekly food can not now be purchased for less than 
$3 a week, and since the cost of milk, the essential in the child's diet, 
is so high we can not at the present time feed a child adequately on a 
much smaller expenditure than that needed for an adult. 

Figures such as these make us realize how much has to be spent for 
proper nourislunent and how great is the danger that the unintelligent 
mother may for reasons of economy curtail the food necessary to main- 
tain health and to promote growth in her young children. 

Malnutrition in a child is best gauged by the relation of weight to 
.height. Any child who is 10 per cent below weight for his height is 
■undernourished, regardless of his age. The appearance and substance 

> Office of Home Economics. Some Results of Recent Work. C. F. Langworthy, Jour. 
Monte Earn., U (1919), pp. 13-20. 



504 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [November 

of the child must also be taken into consideration in determining the 
grade of malnutrition. Flabby muscles, hollow cheeks, sallow skin, 
and pale Ups and mucous membranes are usually found accompanying 
marked underweight. Lack of appetite, Hstlessness or irritability, and 
disturbed sleep are other manifestations of undernourishment. The 
rosy cheeks, the firm muscles, and the bubbHng spirits of health give 
an entirely diiJerent picture. Dr. WiUiam Emerson, the great nutrition 
expert, says that an undernourished child has five physical defects, such, 
as adenoids or bad teeth, to a well nourished child's one. 

Malnutrition is caused primarily by too httle food, too Httle of the- 
right sort of food, or inability to use the food taken into the body. The 
physical defects which have been mentioned, though usually the effect 
and not the cause of undernourishment, do increase this subnormal, 
condition, so forming a vicious circle. Poor hving conditions in the- 
home, and bad health habits are important secondary factors which- 
often need consideration. 

Malnutrition starts most often in the preschool age, for at this period 
the diet of the child is in a state of transition from the diet of infancy to 
that of a young adult, and great wisdom is needed in the selection of 
foods during these tender years, and in the teaching of proper food 
habits, upon which the future health of the child largely depends. 

The preschool age, from two to six, is the period in which the child" 
is most susceptible to infectious disease, presumably because inherited 
immunity and the unmunity taken in with the mother's milk are used- 
up before individual immunity has been developed. Probably one-third, 
of all deaths in this period are due to infectious disease. The so-called 
children's diseases get in their deadly work at this time, not only causing, 
a large toll of deaths, but crippling and maiming for Ufe many of the 
victims, and, worst of all, stunting, for at least a short period, every child- 
in growth and development. The remediable defects so prominent in. 
the draft rejections are largely the aftermath of these children's diseases,, 
and the deadHest of all infections, the common cold. 

The preschool age, which probably now includes ten miUion children,, 
is undoubtedly the most neglected age, neglected both by the parent 
and by the various agencies devoted to different aspects of child welfare 
work. 

We hear a great deal just now about the malnutrition of our school 
children. From 15 to 25 per cent of our 22,000,000 school children are 
estimated as undernourished, but little is made of the fact that this- 



1919] A PLEA FOR THE PRESCHOOL AGE 505 

undernourishment is present in a large proportion of the children when 
they enter school. Malnutrition has undoubtedly increased greatly in 
our city schools — in New York City it jumped from 5 per cent in 1914 
to 21 per cent in 1917 — but who can doubt that it has increased pro- 
portionately in the preschool child? The London schools however, 
where over 34,000 children in 1916-17 received a meal at school, report 
"the progressive reduction in the number of children found with poor 
nutrition has been maintained, the figures in this respect being better 
for 1917 than for 1916, and (for those lea\dng) less than half the pre- 
war figures" (14.7 to 6.2 per cent). 

The infant welfare stations and baby hygiene associations, with their 
visiting nursing system, are looking after the babies of our cities. The 
health of the school child is under medical supervision, and dental 
climes, open-air schools, midmorning lunches, and even nutrition clinics 
are being instituted for his benefit. Even the prenatal period is being 
safeguarded in many cities through maternity centers, assuring children 
a good start in life. But practically nothing is being done, either in 
the cities or in the rural districts, for the runabout. The mother in 
her ignorance comforts herself that the baby once out of infancy is 
able to take care of himself, perhaps under the eye of an older sister. 
The mother's time is apt to be filled with household duties or the care 
of the new baby. The toddler, the little child from 2 to 6, has to be 
left to his own de\'ices. 

In the homes of the poor, there is apt to be only one regular hot meal 
a day, and that the night meal, when the father comes home from work. 
The Httle child out of school has most irregular meals. Wlien he awakens 
he is given perhaps a slice of bread, often with tea or coffee, and this 
inadequate breadfast is not early, as his bed hour is usually far too late. 
He is given a snack at noon, an apple or some delicatessen purchase. 
His diet too often includes no milk, no butter, and no green, leafy vege- 
tables, the essential growth foods, and the protective foods of health. 
He runs in and out of the house, often insufiiciently clad, sometimes 
with damp or wet feet. His bed time is set by the convenience of the 
rest of the household and not by his need for long hours of unbroken 
sleep. Yet these are the years of very great physical growth, an average 
annual increase of 5 pounds in weight and 3 inches in height, and of 
greatest brain development. No medical supervision has been organ- 
ized in this country for the benefit of these little cliildren. This is 
truly the neglected period. 



506 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [November 

The Weighing and Measuring Test of Children's Year in which all 
the States took part was an endeavor to reach a large number of homes 
having children under 6 years of age and to direct the attention of the 
family to the question of their possible undernourishment and to the 
parental responsibility for the health of the child. Undoubtedly many 
millions of homes were reached by this message, while in many communi- 
ties, the Weighing and Measuring Test was carried out most scientifically 
under medical supervision, including a physical examination of the 
children. The results only corroborate our fears of what is happening 
to our Httle children. 

The value of this particular propaganda will be rendered permanent 
according to the amount of follow-up work that develops as a result 
of Children's Year and according to the impetus that the arousing of 
public interest may give to increasing State and city protection for 
all children. 

Much of our present good infant welfare work is nullified by the 
neglect which the child between two and six years of age sufi'ers before 
he falls again under scientific supervision. Continuity of care should 
be made possible for every child in our country from conception through 
adolescence. Every city of any size should have a child hygiene division 
of the city board of health, with a full time trained physician in charge 
of this work. Under such direction and with the cooperation of all 
private agencies working for child welfare, health centers would be 
made available for every mother in the community — welfare stations 
where mothers may go for free consultation with trained physicians 
regarding their health and the health of their children, and from which 
centers trained health %dsitors shall be sent to instruct women in their 
own homes regarding the care of the infant and the young child, espe- 
cially in the principles of nutrition and the selection of proper food for 
the family. Similar health centers must be started in rural districts 
under state supervision. 

The great development of work for the child during the war period 
in England has much of interest for us, much to srir emulation. The 
toddler's playground, the nursery school, and other municipal creations 
to care for Uttle children outside of the home, are not however the 
best solution of the preschool problem, nor the one most needing develop- 
ment in this country. We need not more day nurseries, but more 
trained and intelligent mothers to bring up these Uttle ones in good 
homes, where the necessities for health and decent comfort are provided. 



1919] A PLEA FOR THE PEESCHOOL AGE 507 

I realize that there are many urgent fields for child welfare demanding 
attention, but there are only two periods of childhood whose needs are 
practically ignored — one of these is the preschool age. Surely no time 
of a child's Hfe demands more careful supervision than that during 
these early years, which have been called "the formative period for 
life," when the stamp is placed on future physical development as well 
as mental and moral well being, the years when infectious diseases most 
prevail and when serious physical defects most often start. 

It seems to me that just here is a wonderful opportunity for the more 
fortunate women of America to be of very real help in the safeguarding 
of our child population in the reconstruction period. AU of us wish, 
as we never wished before, to be of service to our nation, and this is 
a task, that demands enthusiastic support and devoted lay service to 
make it a success. Many women have been giving regular hours 
every day or regular days every week to war work, to put our boys 
in the trenches and to maintain them there. What possibilities could 
be realized if this energy and devotion, no longer needed in keeping 
our army at the front, could be diverted to building up our third Une 
of defense — the children of the nation. 



QUERIES 

Does your grocer stand on the edge of the sugar and flour bins to take 
groceries from the shelves? 

Is food protected from dust, flies, and handling? 

Are vegetables raised the required 18 inches from the floor? 

Is food protected from cats and dogs? 

Are baker}' products covered during delivery to the shop? 

If any one of these questions cannot be answered favorably, report the fact, 
over your signature, giving the name and address of the dealer. An effort 
will be made to assist him in correcting this condition. 



EDITORIAL 

Foreign Letters. The following extracts from letters sent to Dr. B. 
R. Andrews of the International Committee on Teaching of Home Eco- 
nomics will be of interest not only to the many friends of Mrs. Strong but 
to aU those interested in the development of home economics in other 
lands. The letters were accompanied by "Instruction Cards" in type 
that the Journal is unable to reproduce (or its editor to understand), 
and by a quarterly cost card and a monthly supply card that adds to the 
familiar Hst of "brooms, brushes, mops" such articles as "Jagannathi," 
"Khadie." The best wishes of the Journal are -ndth Mrs. Strong, and 
the hope that at some time she may be able to write for us an account 
of her many experiences. 

December 28, 1918. 

Your circular letter has been bearing fruits and I have been asked to come 
to several schools to give talks and hold conferences. Unfortunately, I am 
so much occupied here that it is not easy to get away during the cool weather, 
and in hot weather travehng is almost impossible. I did go to Bombay for a 
week of intensive work with the Parsee Girls' School Association. But that is 
the extent of my lecturing outside Baroda. I am now securing His Highness 
the Maharajah Sahib's opinion as to the possibility of my accepting a certain 
invitation to the Dacca, Chittagong and Rajashahi Di\-isions for conference and 
lectures on the education of women in its relation to the house. It is possible 
that I may make arrangements to remain after my contract with Baroda ex- 
pires and make a lecture tour. Thank you at any rate for so kindly introduc- 
ing me to the colleges and schools in India. 

We too have food problems in India, for the rains failed us this season and 
the various grains are far short of the normal crop. I believe you would be 
interested in samples of some of these grains and pulses that constitute the 
bases of the vegetarian diet in India. The pulses are very rich in protein 
and seem much more easily digested than ours. It is largely a question of 
quantity and not quality that furnishes the food problem for us here. As I 
have said to others we have many lessons in home economics to learn from 
India. We are wasteful in the extreme by comparison, and for the first time I 
begin to reahze how many things that we consider necessities are really luxuries. 

My educational work lies in four directions. First is the college course in 
household arts for college or graduate students. This is a two years' course 
508 



1919] EDITORIAL 509 

and will lead. to a diploma. Secondly, I am gi\'ing a one year course in rural 
home economics for the Teachers' Training College for men. Thirdly, a brief 
course in household arts for the Girls' High School. The Principal of the 
school gives the talks on house sanitation. Another teacher gives the work in 
clothing and I conduct the food course. The fourth aspect of my work is 
purely technical education. I have given courses in housewifery to the Bun- 
galowalas, who correspond to our house maids, and a course in food and cookery 
to the kitchen and dining room staffs of the Maharajah's household. We are 
now organizing a course for staff teachers, who will be utiUzed to train the ser- 
vants in the various palaces. We will use the Guest House as our chief prac- 
tice field. I shall not undertake to go into the other field of my work. Mr. 
Clarke, the Commissioner of Education, Baroda State, constantly reminds me 
that fourteen annas of the sixteen, which make up my Rupee of time, belong to 
the practical institutional-management phases of the work, and I think he is 
about right. I could give you a list a yard long of what this includes, but 
will spare you. 

We are pubhshing a couple of series of pamphlets in Gujarathi and Marathi, 
the vernacular languages of Baroda, and I will send you a sample, with my 
Announcement of Courses at Baroda College. I only hope that the work will 
take such root that it may grow after I leave and that is why I am anxious 
to start as many things as possible. 

July 22, 1919. 

Your letter brought some responses and I was able to visit the Girls' Schools 
in DarjeeUng and Calcutta, as well as in Naini-tal and Bombay. Very little 
is being done in most of these schools along our hne, but there is an interest 
and the authorities are beginning to be aroused to its value. We have re- 
cently placed sewing in the elementary schools of Baroda State as a require- 
ment and the teachers are being trained for this subject. In some schools 
also cooking is taught, but usually a Darji teaches the sewing and a Brahmin 
cook teaches the cookery, because the teachers are not qualified to teach either. 
My own efforts have been along the line of training the teachers, but we have 
now come to a point where new courses of study must be carefully worked out 
and texts revised. I wish I were half a dozen people instead of one, then I 
might hope to accomplish something. 

I have a thousand questions I should like to ask you but since you are a 
busy man, I will ask only a few. These deal with the cost accounting in house- 
hold management. I would so much like to know what the budgets of some 
of the large establishments in America af)portion for repairs on furniture and 
furnishings, for cleaning and upkeep, including the cost of cleaning supplies. 
We are trying to standardize the cost of cleaning our Palaces and I will enclose 
a couple of our cost sheets. How is this cost accounted for in large homes and 
institutions with you? Have you any idea what Mr. Vanderbilt or Mr. Astor 



510 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [November 

or Mr. Wilson pays a year for keeping his house clean? This is exclusive of 
labor, for I recognize the fact that labor conditions are so different that it is 
not fair to make comparison there though I should be interested also in know- 
ing how many maids and cleaners are employed for a given number of rooms. 

We are installing labor saving devices and trying to improve our system of 
work and at present I have a class of staff-foremen, who after a year's training 
in housewifery will be placed in charge of groups of house-workers to train and 
supervise. At present they are in the furniture factory learning how to polish 
and repair furniture. I have fair hopes of them.. 

I just learned that Miss Goolbai J. Bahadurji, a Parsi lady. Principal of the 
Parsi Girls' High School in Bombay is going to Teachers College next fall to 
study household arts. I gave a week of lectures for the Parsi Girls' School 
Association and Miss Bahadurji was most enthusiastic. I am indeed glad that 
she has the opportunity of going to America and I hope you will meet her in 
your classes and help her all you can. 

(Signed) Ann Gilchrist Strong, 
Director of Household Arts, Baroda, India. 

From far Korea too has come a letter to the Journal. Will not this 
appeal for help make many of our readers more ready to send us articles 
embodying their own experiences that might be of immeasurable assist- 
ance to one working so far away from the helps that are so abundant 
here? The letter inclosed some interesting post cards showing house 
interiors, with the comment, "They cannot show the filth seen in so 
many houses." 

My dear Helpers: 

I address you in this way because here in this land your Journal is needed 
many times worse than at home. I am the first home economics worker to 
come to Korea and I feel so inadequate for the great problems which have 
already confronted me. 

I wish you could know how eagerly I read the Journal, looking for answers 
to food and industrial problems which I shall soon be called upon to cope 
with. 

My work here is to establish and keep running an industrial department in 
a girls' school, which will enable poor girls to get an education. Now, they 
do sewing and fancy embroidering of all kinds and I must say they are very 
clever with the needle. Later, when I understand the food situation better, 
I hope to introduce the study of the food problem, and through the school 
girls reach the mothers in the homes and gradually be able to help the poor 
little sick, dwarfed, poorly nourished babies. 

I am truly thankful for the Journal of Home Economics. 

(Signed) Etta Belle Grimes, 
Taiku, Chosen (Korea), Japan. 



1919] EDITORLA.I. 511 

Another Way to Help the Journal. "Referring to the advertis- 
ing we have been running in your Journal, we regret to say that we 
have received no inquiries whatever from this advertising, and we are 
therefore obhged to cancel the same, to take effect at once." This quo- 
tation from a letter sent to the pubhshers of the Journal by a firm who 
has lately been advertising -vvith us suggests one way in which subscribers 
may help in the support of the Journal. 

As everj'one knows, nearly every magazine is largely dependent for 
its financial success upon the advertising it can command. The Journal 
has several times sacrificed something of the advantage it might have 
received, in that it has scrutinized its advertisements with especial care, 
and has refused some, either because they were offered by unreUable 
firms, or because they made statements too extreme even for the latitude 
usually allowed to one advertising his own products. 

Yet the Journal desires more advertising, not less. There have been 
occasional statements from other advertisers that when booklets or 
samples of materials are offered for domestic science teachers no re- 
sponse is received. If every subscriber who makes use in any way of 
the advertisements in the Journal would take pains in writing to adver- 
tisers to state that the advertisement was seen in the Journal it would 
be of distinct ser\4ce in retaining the advertisers who now use our pages, 
and perhaps in securing more. It is an easy thing to do, and would 
count. 

The Institution Economics Section' of the American Home Eco- 
nomics Association held its armual meeting at the University of Wiscon- 
sin, Madison, June 9-13. The program opened with addresses of wel- 
come from President E. A. Birge, Abby Marlatt, and Elsie P. Leonard, 
and a response by Lenna Cooper. 

Lively discussion followed the excellent addresses of Mrs. Hughes of 
the McAlpin on Opporturiities for Women in the Modern Hotel, and Mr. 
Gregory of the LaSalle on Administration of the Business of the Modern 
Hotel. Both were most gracious and helpful in response to questions. 

The sessions devoted to teaching problems resolved themselves into a 
very free and vigorous discussion over basic requirements of a course for 
the training of dietitians. Miss Cooper, at that time Supervising Dieti- 
tian for the Army, brought to the notice of the Conference the tabulated 

' The reports of the Institution Economics Section and of the Textile Section were 
delayed in reaching us and therefore could not lopear with the other reports in the 
October Journal. 



512 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [^Noveniber 

results of a questionnaire sent out by her to schools and colleges giving 
institution training, by which she sought to learn what subjects were 
taught in home economics and what subjects could be considered as 
fundamentals for institution training. 

The program devoted to the Dietitian set our wits to working and 
brought out many pertinent questions as to training, status, and ethics. 
The address made by Dr. Hugh Greeley on the Relation of the Physician 
and the Dietitian in the Hospital was especially rich in food for thought. 

After several sessions of unusually free and frank, discussion in assem- 
bly and in committee, a proposed two-year course for dietitians was drawn 
up for consideration at the Blue Ridge meeting and also at the meeting 
of the American Dietetic Association in Cincinnati in September. Em- 
phasis was laid, and should be laid, on the fact that determination of 
the length of time in training was not the all-important point sought for 
so much as the determination of certain fundamental subjects which 
could be fairly and definitely required for a course in Institutional 
Administration for Dietitians. 

The ever-present and highly interesting School-Lunch and Cafeteria 
problems were given ample space and treatment under the able leader- 
ship of Miss Treen of the New England Kitchen, Boston. Excellent 
talks, discussion, and pictures — both stereoptican and motion — made this 
section prominent and enjoyable. 

Tea Room Management, Dormitory Administration, and Marketing 
for the Institution were presented by experienced administrators in these 
types of institutional work. 

The conference numbered onty about one hundred, but there was 
a fine spirit of comradeship. Everybody came to know everyone 
else and many, because of our "family life" in session and out, found 
help in the solution of vexatious problems. Several excellent talks by 
men skilled in the building of various types of equipment and furnishing 
proved particularly helpful. It was very gratifying and inspiring indeed 
to have with us prominent hotel and restaurant people — both men and 
women — from the East and Middle West, and institutional adminis- 
trators from the East, far West, and South. 

The sessions were enhvened by motor trips around lovely Madison, by 
boat trips on her lakes, and by visits to the many points of interest on 
the University Campus. The Department of Halls and Commons was 
open at all times to the visitors — The Central Kitchen proving to be a 
mecca at all hours. 



1919] EDITORIAL 513 

Through unexpected delay in the arrival of the report of the Madison 
meeting sent to Blue Ridge for the Institution Economics Section meet- 
ings, and also through an unfortunate confusion in regard to leaders 
and meetings, it is much to be regretted that Institution Economics did 
not play so prominent a part in the Blue Ridge Conference as the Chair- 
man sincerely planned and expected. 

Elsie P. Leonard, 
Chairman. 

The Textile Section. In the absence of Ethelwyn Miller, chairman 
of the Textile Section, Mabel TriUing acted in her stead. 

The reports by committees appointed the preceding year constituted 
the program. 

Marion Weller, chairman of the committee appointed to investigate 
the teaching of textiles and clothing to find out in how far the work 
functioned in training intelhgent buying, sent her report, which may be 
outlined as follows: 

The committee sent out a letter^ to high schools and colleges and al- 
though they thought that the returns did not sufficiently represent the 
various sections of the country the responses were of interest. 

1. In many schools students are required and in others merely encouraged 
to keep systematic accounts of their expenditures. 

2. Budget making is studied in many places, usually on a theoretical basis. 
Many teachers said the work on budgets was to be introduced the coming 
year. 

3. No reports indicated work based on an allowance for clothing. Most of 
the answers reported that students' selection of clothing showed improvement 
as a result of clothing study. Some felt the limitations of the mothers' super- 
vision and of the limited assortment of local stores. 

4. Practically all reported teaching of renovating and remodelling. 

5. Only one school reported a plan for testing garments for length of service. 

6. The courses for normal schools and colleges showed definite work in de- 
sign. Some reported dissatisfaction with the cooperation thus far secured 
between the art courses and clothing courses in carrying out the designs. 

7. Some schools reported shopping trips and excursions to mills, others trips 
to nearby towns under supervision. All reported stores and buyers very 
willing to cooperate. 

Many expressed appreciation for the suggestions afforded by the letter 
and intended incorporation of the ideas into their courses for this year. 

' The letter appeared in the .A.ugu5t Journal, p. 367 . 



514 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [November 

The committee appointed for the purpose of investigating the Red 
Cross work done in the clothing classes reported that the work plaimed 
had been discontinued as the needs changed at the signing of the 
Armistice. 

Mabel Trilhng reported work done at the University of Chicago by the 
group appointed to investigate the content of courses of study in textiles 
and clothing and also to consider the use of scientific tests. 

The work of this group has been of unusual importance, for they have 
made and are continuing a very detailed analysis of courses of study and 
text books in common use, for the purpose of determining how the time 
and attention of the student are being divided in the various phases of 
the subject. A report of this work will be published by the University 
of Chicago Press, and will be intensely interesting to all teachers of 
home economics. 

Two new projects were launched as a result of questions brought 
up in this meeting. 

Miriam Birdseye was made chairman of a committee to attempt the 
standardization of a few materials in common use.^ 

An effort to improve the quaHty of interiors shown in moving pictures 
resulted in the appointment of a committee.' 

The meetings were very well attended and show considerable promise 
of the growth of the importance of the Textile Section. 

The election of officers for the ensuing year resulted as follows: Chair- 
man, Mabel Trilling; Secretary, Florence E. Winchell. 

Florence E. Wlnchell, 

Secretary. 

Announcement. The International Committee on Teaching of Home 
Economics would like to secure the cooperation of some member of the 
Home Economics Association who- can read and write the following 
languages fluently: Spanish, ItaKan, Danish, Swedish, French and 
Japanese. 

The Committee is planning to send a communication to teachers of 
home economics in foreign countries. 

Persons willing to cooperate by translating and handling foreign cor- 
respondence for the Committee are asked to communicate with Dr. B. 
R. Andrews, Chairman of Committee, Teachers College, New York City. 

• A more detailed occount of the work of this committee is to be found in the Septem- 
ber Journal, p. 388. 

' For further details see the general report of the Blue Ridge Meeting in the September 
Journal, p. 412. 



BOOKS AND LITERATURE 



Any book or periodical mentioned in this department may be obtained tlirough the 
JooRNAi, OF Home Economics if the Journal price is listed. 



Broken Homes. A Study oj Family Desertion 
and its Social Treatment. By Joanna C. 
COLCORD, Superintendent Charity Organ- 
ization Society of the City of New York. 
New York: Russell Sage Foundation, 1919, 
pp. 208. $0.75. By mail of the Journal, 
$0.80. 

In this smaU volume, devoted to the 
experience of the social case workers in 
their attempt to deal with a class of families 
which make up from ten to fifteen per cent 
of the family problems presented to the 
agencies in many of the cities, are discussed 
the peculiar difficulties presented by the 
family deserted by the husband and father 
and by the family in which the husband, 
while remaiuing at home, fails to perform 
his duty of supporting his wife and children. 
The problem of the deserted wife has 
always been recognized as far more difiScult 
than that of the widow. The man, while 
absent for purposes of support and counsel, 
is present as a demoralizing and disturbing 
influence. Miss Colcord discusses in an 
illuminating way, under two headings, the 
causes leading men to desert their families: 
(1) Contributory Factors in the Man and 
Woman, such as Mental Deficiency, Faults 
in Early Training, Differences in Back- 
ground, Wrong Basis of Marriage, Lack of 
Education, Occupational Faults, "Wander- 
lust," Money Troubles, 111 Health, Incom- 
patibility, and Vicious Habits; and (2) Com- 
munity Factors, such as Interference of 
Relatives, Racial Attitude toward Marriage, 
Community Standards, Lack of Proper 
Recreation, Influence of Companions, and 
Expectation of Charitable Relief. There is 
an interesting survey of the changed attitude 
of social workers toward the problem and 
toward the widespread agreement now pre- 



vailing among them that this type of family 
presents one of the most valuable opportuni- 
ties for thorough case work and for treat- 
ment based upon full understanding partic- 
ularly of the man's history- and of the 
possibilities not only of his reassuming but 
of his continuing to perform his duties to 
the family group. 

jMiss Colcord points out that the greater 
fle.xibility of treatment now possible to 
social caseworkers is in large part due to 
the presence on the statute books of many 
states of so-called "non-support and aban- 
donment" laws secured largely through the 
efforts of such workers, and resulting from 
their attempts to deal with families of this 
kind. 

This discussion is intended for the special 
use of the social caseworker and is therefore 
devoted largely to the discussion of the 
technique of investigation and of treatment. 
It b needless to say that no social case- 
worker can afford to be without this volume 
nor to remain unfamiliar with its suggestions 
as to available sources of information, pos- 
sible sources of cooperation, and necessary 
preparation for dealing with families that 
constitute one of the most convincing proofs 
of the necessity for close examination of 
our institutions and evidence of the absence 
of clear understanding as to the purposes 
to be served by the various agencies we 
have taken for granted but do not con- 
sciously develop so that they may suflici- 
ently serve their ends. 

It may therefore be interesting to recall 
tlie changes that have been taking place in 
the status of the family. The statutes to 
which Miss Colcord calls attention which 
constitute abandonment and non-support as 
offences punishable by fine and imprison- 
515 



516 



THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS 



[November 



ment give for the first time to wife and 
children an enforceable right to support. 
In the absence of such statutes, the children 
have no enforceable claim and the wife a 
remedy so difficult of enforcement' as to 
render it negligible. Moreover, under the 
earlier law of many of our states and under 
the prevailing law of many of the communi- 
ties in which the men and women now under 
the care of social agencies passed their child- 
hood, the relation of the man to the members 
of his family was like that of an owner to 
a thing. "Can I not do what I will with 
mine own?" "Are they not my wife and 
children?" — the young husband asks of the 
social worker in Galsworthy's Demos — with 
ine.xorable logic. 

It may not be quite true to say that 
wholly new duties have been laid upon the 
husband and father, for the moral duty was 
always declared to exist, but it is correct 
to say that the "non-support and abandon- 
ment" laws secured by the social workers 
taken into consideration with the "married 
women's property rights" laws secured by 
the feminists create a confused and confus- 
ing situation for the husband and father 
which both husband and wife must in many 
cases certainly find difiiculty in understand- 
ing. It is perhaps the responsibility of the 
home economics expert to bring it about 
that the boys and girls growing up today 
have a clearer understanding and a better 
preparation in that understanding for ful- 
filling the duties of family life. 

Miss Mary E. Richmond, the editor of 
the Series to which this book is a contribution 
is the inventor of a term, the intermittent 
husband, describing one group of men whose 
families must be cared for. Not only is 
help needed, then, at the point of clarifying 

' Under the doctrine of "necessaries." 



the services which the family group is to 
be called on to perform, but there is great 
need of recalling the fact that so long as 
boys and girls are allowed to go to work 
early at intermittent and ineducative em- 
ployment, there may be expected intermit- 
tent performance of domestic duties, the 
casualizing of domestic Ufe. 

.•Another point at which the possibility 
of adequate service by the caseworker is 
dependent on the development of community 
resources is that at which treatment would 
wish to make use of prolonged detention. 
Until the place of detention, whether police 
station, city bridewell, jail, or penitentiary 
obtains provision for educational occupation 
in sanitary surroundings, among socially 
educative relationships, no social worker can 
make use of imprisonment with any hope 
of building fine family life on the experience 
of commitment. .\nd most places of deten- 
tion lack all these factors in equipment, and 
are foul places of demoralizing associations 
where men are kept in deadening idleness. 
It is difficult to think of a prison sentence 
serving as "a salutary dash of cold water" 
(p. 99). Rather, with prisons as they are 
in most jurisdictions to-day, it must gener- 
ally seem like an immersion in a foul and 
stagnant pool! 

Miss Colcord makes clear how definitely 
the results of the caseworkers' labors depend 
upon the social intelligence of the judges. 
It is also clear that both the men and the 
women are often the victims of lack of 
education, of early exploitation, and of 
deficiency of preparation for the responsi- 
bilities of family life. 

S. P. Breckinridge, 

Chicago School oj Civics and Philanthropy 



NEWS FROM THE FIELD 



The Connecticut Home Economics 
Association will try this year a new plan 
for district organization in their state. In 
each county or district in the state the 
executive committee is to appoint a director, 
thus giving local representation. It is 
hoped that this will make the association 
more alive and vital. 

The duties of the directors will be to aid 
the secretary in keeping the membership 
and mailing list up to date, to aid the presi- 
dent and executive committee in planning 
the year's program so that it will meet local 
needs, and generally to represent the asso- 
ciation in their districts. The whole organi- 
zation without much or any larger expense 
can be of greater service, and at least names 
of those who have been out of the state for 
years will not be on its mailing list. 

These plans were made at the June meet- 
ing held at the Connecticut State College. 
The general topic of discussion at this meet- 
ing was, "For what are we training our girls 
in home economics?" 

The new officers are: Orissa M. Baxter, 
Hartfold School of Religious Pedagogy, 
President; Annie I. Robertson, 219 Church 
Street, Hartford, Corresponding Secretary- 
Treasurer; Maude E. Hayes, Councilor. 

Kansas State Agricultural College. 

The changes in organization in the Division 
of Home Economics, which have been under 
way for more than a year, have resulted in a 
considerable enlargement of the teaching 
staff and of the work of the several depart- 
ments. 

Mrs. Mary Pierce Van Zile who had been 
Dean of Women and Dean of the Division 
of Home Economics resigned the latter 
position, July, 1918, in order to devote her 
entire time to college social problems as 
dean of women. At the opening of the 



college year in September, 1918, Dr. Helen 
B. Thompson who had been professor of 
nutrition and dietetics in Connecticut Col- 
lege for Women became dean of the division. 

Olive A. Sheets and Loula E. Kennedy 
left the department of Domestic Science to 
go into war work in the summer of 1918. 
Margaret H. Haggart resigned as Professor 
of Domestic Science July 1, 1919. 

The department of Domestic Science has 
been divided to form a Department of Food 
Economics and Nutrition and one of House- 
hold Economics. In these new departments 
the following appointments have been made 
for this year. 

Food Economics and Nutrition: Professor, 
Dr. L. Jean Bogert from Yale University 
Medical Staff, Department of Experimental 
Medicine; Associate Professors, Elizabeth 
Rothermel, A.M., Columbia University, 
1913-16 Instructor, University of Washing- 
ton, 1917-18 Dietitian Peter Bent Brigham 
Hospital and University of California 
Hospital; Martha S. Pittman, A.M., Co- 
lumbia, recently in extension service Penn- 
sylvania State CoUege. 

Household Economics: Professor, Hilde- 
garde Kneeland, A.B. Vassar, 1914-17 
Instructor, University of Missouri, 1917-18 
graduate student Columbia University, 
1918-19 Gilder Fellow in sociology; Asso- 
ciate Professor, Ellen A. Reynolds, A.M., 
University of Chicago, previously Assistant 
Professor, University of Kentucky, and in 
war emergency work in cooperation with 
Virginia Polytechnic Institute. 

Each department has its usual corps of 
instructors and assistants. A research lab- 
oratory is being equipped in the home 
economics building. Space has also been 
provided for the Division of Home Eco- 
nomics in a new research laboratory estab- 
hshcd for the use of the various departments 
517 



518 



THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS 



[November 



working on problems in genetics and animal 
nutrition. 

The Department of Domestic Art has 
been renamed as Department of Clothing 
and Textiles. This department is adding 
a course in clothing salesmanship, and pre- 
paring to develop more fully the economic 
phase of the study of clothing. Additions 
are being made to the equipment of the 
te.xtiles laboratory. 

The Department of Applied Art, also in 
the Division of Home Economics, will be 
enlarged by the addition of one instructor. 
Miss Grace C. .\verill, instructor in design, 
and Miss Florence Hunt, instructor in 
costume design, studied in the University 
of California during the summer session. 

Home Economics Courses at the Uni- 
versity of Wisconsin have been enlarged 
to include several new majors, so that at 
the beginning of the Junior year, it is now 
possible to make a choice from six. In 
addition to food and nutrition, general home 
economics, and textiles, which have formerly 
been given, there are now offered hospital 
administration, vocational education, and 
bacteriology. 

The major in hospital administration in- 
cludes in addition to subjects required in 
all home economics majors, courses in anat- 
omy, pharmacology, clinical medicine, and 
hospital practice in the University and city 
hospitals. After taking her degree, the 
graduate may become a registered nurse 
upon completion of one year of residence 
in an approved hospital. 

The major in vocational education is de- 
signed to equip teachers of homemaking in 
vocational schools. Opportunity is offered 
to obtain special technical and vocational 
training in addition to the regular home 
economics work. 

The major in bacteriologj' is offered in 
response to a growing demand for laboratory 
technicians in departments of public health, 
municipal water and sewage plants, hospitals, 



milk plants and others in which training in 
both home economics and bacteriology is 
desirable. It includes courses in micro- 
scopic anatomy, public health administra- 
tion, bacteriology for health officers, food, 
medical and dairy bacteriolog)', and rural 
hygiene. 

The American Association of Agricul- 
tural Colleges and Experiment Stations 
will hold its annual meeting in Chicago 
Nov. 12, 13, and 14, with headquarters at 
the Auditorium Hotel. There will be a 
meeting of the Council of the American 
Home Economids Association on Tuesday 
evening November 11. 

Notes. The Home Economics Depart- 
ment of the University of Chicago is to have 
this year, for a practice house, the use of a 
good-sized dwelling owned by the Univer- 
sity. Alumnae will recall the house on Ken- 
wood Avenue opposite Belfield Hall. 

Peabody College, Nashville, Tennessee, an- 
nounces the following correspondence-study 
courses in home economics : Nutrition, House- 
hold Management, Principles of Sewing, 
Clothing for Children, Problems in Sewing 
for the Grades. These courses may be 
counted toward a degree. 

In addition to its regular courses in home 
economics, Massachusetts Agricultural Col- 
lege offered, this past summer, elective 
courses in Organized Play and Recreation, 
Health and Sanitation, Food Preservation, 
Boys' and Girls' Club Work, Education, 
Horticulture, Agriculture, Practical Arts. 

Charles Cooper, who for some years was 
editor of the "Epicure" has resumed the 
editorship of the "Table," a weekly publica- 
tions on foods and similar matters, of which 
he was editor some thirty years ago. The 
"Epicure" which was discontinued, owing to 
war wnditions in London, will probably not 
be revived. 



Vot. XI. No. 12 December, 1919 

THE 

Journal of Home Economics 

For those interested in Homemaking, Institution Management, 
and Educational Work in Home Economics 

Mu. AucE P. Norton. Editor Keturah £• Baldwin, Business E4it0r 

Editcrial Board 
Mu. Mart H, Abel C. F. Lancworthy Ethelwyn Miller Ruth Wheeler Amy Dahikxj 

Es-Offictp Members — Edna N. White, President American Home Economics Association 
Elsie Leonard, Chairman Institution Economics Section 
Katherine Blunt, Chairman Science Section 
Af AMiE Bunch, Chairman Extension Education Section 
Mabel Trillinc, Chairman Textile Section 

Collaborators — The Officers, Members of the Council, and Advisors 



CONTENTS 

Office of Home Economics: Some Results of the Work Carried on During the Fiscal 

Year, 1918-1919 C. F. Langworthy 519 

A Course in Textile Shopping Iva L. Brandt 533 

Study of Comparative Waste in a Dining H.all ant) in a Cafeterla 

No!a Treat and Lenore Richards 540 

For the Homemaker 

The Problem of the High Cost of Living 543 

The Seven Weeks Experiment by the Committee on Household Assistants . . . 548 

Home Ties 0\'er Seas 553 

A Prayer for a Little Home 554 

Editorial 555 

The Question Box 557 

Comment and Discussion 558 

Books and LiiERATUTiE 559 

Bibliography of Home Economics 561 

News from the Field 563 

Index to Volume XI 567 



The Journal op Home Economics is published monthly by the American Home Economics Association. 

$2.00 A YEAR. FOREIGN J2.35. CANADIAN $2.20. SINGLE COPIES 25 CENTS 

HOW TO REMIT. Remittances should be sent by Check, Express Order or Postal Money Order, payable to the 
American Home Economics Association. Currency, unless mailed in a registered letter, is at the sender's risk. 

NOTICE. When payment is made by check no receipt will be sent unless requested. 

CHANGE IN ADDRESS. Notice of change in address should be sent Two Weeks before the date of issue on which 
the change is to take effect. The subscriber's Old Address should be clearly indicated in addition to the New Address. 

AMERICAN HOME ECONOMICS ASSOCIATION 1211 Cathedral St., Baltimore, Md. 

The JoDRNAi. op Home Economics is on sale at John Wanamakcr's, Philadelphia; The Old Comer Book Store, Boston; 

A. C. McClurg's, Chicago; Baltimore News Company, Baltimore; Woodward and Lothrop, Washington 



JOURNAL OF BOMB ECONOMICS— ADVERTISEMENTS 



When a Woman 
Considers 

the small amount of baking powder 
it takes to make a cake — when she 
compares the small cost of the bak- 
ing powder with that of the other 
materials used, when she appreciates 
the difference there is in flavor, tex- 
ture and wholesomeness — there is 
only one decision and that is 

ROYAL 

Baking Powder 

Absolutely Pure 

Made from Cream of Tartar derived from grapes 

Royal Contains No Alum — 

Leaves No Bitter Taste 



In writing advertisers, please mention Journal of Home Economics 



THE 

Journal of Home Economics 

Vol. XI DECEMBER, 1919 No. 12 

OFFICE OF HOME ECONOMICS: SOME RESULTS OF THE 
WORK CARRIED ON DURING THE FISCAL YEAR, 1918-1919' 

C. F. LANGWORTHY 
Chief, Office of Home Economics 

During the last fiscal year the work of the OfSce of Home Economics 
has increased very greatly. This is due largely to the growth of experi- 
mental and research work and to the more extended cooperation with 
the other branches of the States Relations Service and other bureaus of 
the Department of Agriculture as well as with other governmental and 
nongovernmental organizations, including the American Home Eco- 
nomics Association. As the records of the office show, there were 39 
employees in July, 1918, this number decreasing until December 1 when 
the total numbered 27. From this date there was a gradual increase of 
workers in home economics projects until a maximum of 62 was reached 
about May 1. The increase was due chiefly to the fact that the Bureau 
of Markets cooperated with the Office of Home Economics in the war 
emergency dietary survey. 

Considerable attention has been given during this year to matters 
of organization and to systematic classification and arrangement of 
manuscripts, pamphlets, and other valuable material forming a large 
collection of home economics data. Mr. J. A. Fray has given special 
attention to the problems of organization and similar work. 

The equipment of the experimental kitchen has been increased to 
include stoves of different tj'pes and a very complete self-operating 

' Presented at the Twelfth Annual Meeting of the American Home Economics Associa- 
tion, Blue Ridge, North Carolina, June, 1919. 



520 THE joiTRNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [December 

refrigerating plant and cooling box, as well as many smaller household 
conveniences. This means that a great variety of household conditions 
can be duphcated in experim.ental work under controlled conditions, a 
matter of decided importance in making generahzations for housekeep- 
ers. In such work the Offices of Extension Work in the South and in 
the North and West have cooperated. Another feature of the experi- 
mental kitchen is the demonstration laboratory where instruction can 
be given to extension workers and others as occasion demands. 

Work of the Experimental Kitchen. Early in the fiscal year, Dr. Minna 
C. Denton assumed direction of the experimental kitchen and under 
her super\asion such problems as the following have been studied. 

Experimental studies of yeast breads which comprised (a) effect 
of kneading by hand for different lengths of time, on bread, made with 
and \\ithout "substitute" flours; (b) comparisons between "straight 
dough" breads (all wheat) incubated at different temperatures under 
controlled conditions; (c) study of recipes for homemade yeast starters. 

Studies in fuel conservarion with gas range, involving measurement 
of gas consiunption during ordinary household processes; varying 
details of construction as exemplified in ranges offered for sale in city 
shops; management in top-burner cooking; use of various com- 
mercial devices for saving gas while cooking; management of oven; 
use of small cover over top-burner; oven temperatures suitable to 
produce satisfactory butter cakes of different sizes and of different com- 
position, pastry shells and filled pies, bread, biscuits, muffins, puddings; 
comparison of temperature-and-time curves for these various products 
in ovens of different construction, as those of coal range, dift'erent gas 
ranges, electric range; determination of temperature in center of 
mass when product "is done," for batters and doughs with and without 
eggs, for egg dishes without flour, for vegetables. 

Problems of fruit jelly making, such as (a) yield in jelly (volume and 
weight) per pound of fruit, when different common home procedures 
are followed; (b) descriptions of a pectin test suitable for the house- 
keeper's use; (c) boiling point of various jellies when "done;" (d) use of 
pectin extracts and various acids to improve yield under certain con- 
ditions; (e) use of other sweeteners than granulated cane sugar in jelly 
making (e.g., commercial glucose sirups, homemade invert sirups). 

Studies in pastry making, including (a) amount of various other 
fats (oils, rendered suet) to be substituted for If ounces of lard, in 
various recipes for pastry shells; (b) optimvmi amoimt of water to be 



1919] OFFICE OF HOME ECONOMICS 521 

used with different amounts of each kind of fat; (c) temperature at time 
of mixing suitable for each fat and for water used and effect of tem- 
peratures of fat on economy in use of fat and on excellence of product; 
(d) effect of varying the details of manipulation at different stages of 
the process of pastry making, e.g., pounding instead of stirring the 
dough in mixing, ripening for different lengths of time. 

Studies of the effect of varying manipulations of cake batter, espe- 
cially as related to (a) variations in relative manipulations of ingredients, 
variations in kind of ingredients; (b) oven temperature during baking; 

(c) kind of utensil in which cake is baked (size, shape, and material); 

(d) some special study as to effect of amount and type of baking powder 
used, and manipulation of batter after baking powder is added. 

A study of methods in household canning of vegetables and fruits, 
particularly the former; methods of cooking and using these products. 
The canning methods being studied include (a) old-fashioned hot pack 
"open kettle," with or without added vinegar; (b) one period cold pack, 
with various modifications (e.g., omitting cold dip, use of blanching water 
for canning, etc.); (c) intermittent cold pack or hot pack; (d) pressure 
steam (household canners and cookers); (e) relative amounts of soUd 
and Uquid in jar, with different kinds and combinations of vegetables, 
and different styles of pack, effect of these details on time required for 
penetration of heat to center of jar to a degree sufhcient to attain ste i- 
lizing temperature. 

Drjing methods (with vegetables) studied touch such problems as (a) 
"high dr>Tng" (150°F. to 190°F.); "low drying" (110°F. to 120°F.); 
(b) blanching or not blanching, salt or plain blanch, different lengths 
of time of blanch; (c) different rates of velocity of air current. 

Studies on cooking and use of dried products; (a) age at which various 
dried vegetables begin to fall off in flavor (no bacterial growth or "spoil- 
age" having taken place) ; (b) ease with which the soaking process can be 
satisfactorily dispensed with in preparing for the table. 

Work designed to facilitate progress in standardization of methods 
in experimental cookery has also been carried on. Outlines prepared 
include a list of variants and environmental factors concerning which ob- 
servations must be made and recorded, in order to establish controlled 
conditions for various experimental batters and doughs (yeast bread, 
butter cakes, pastry shells and filled pies); for roasting and frying and 
sauteing processes; for observations on gas consumption during top- 
burner cooking and oven baking; for processes of canning and drying 



522 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [December 

and cooking of dried products; for juice extraction of fruits and jelly 
making. Score cards for all of these products have also been prepared. 

A series of experimental custards was made, showing effect on curdling 
temperature of increasing amounts of sugar, of acid, and of soda. 

Some studies have also been made on the effects of using soda and of 
acid (vinegar) on cooking beef, fish, carrots, peas, and spinach, as to 
color and as to relative degrees of tenderness. 

Cooperative experimental work was undertaken with the Bureau of 
Chemistry. Recipes were worked out for using miso sauce and shoyu 
sauce, both of which are soy bean products; for home manufacture and 
use of sweet potato molasses; for home drying in specially constructed 
dryers; and for the cooking of dried vegetables. 

At the request of the Bureau of Animal Industry comparative studies 
have been made of several fats used in pastry making, of the cooking 
quahties of mutton slaughtered by varying methods and of the cooking 
quality of pork from hogs fattened in different ways. 

At the request of the Bureau of Plant Industry' studies have been 
made of tomato seed and water melon seed oil and other by-product oils 
for table purposes. 

Some of the studies referred to were of comparatively limited scope 
while others were much more extended and represent only a beginning 
in the study of questions which merit much additional research. 

Immediate application has been made of the results of much of the 
work and in some cases results have been published. Reports of several 
of these studies have appeared or are soon to appear in the Journal. 

During the influenza epidemic regular work in the experimental kitchen 
was temporarily suspended in order that foods might be prepared in 
quantity as a part of the reUef work of the District of Columbia. 

Meal Planning. Miss Caroline L. Hunt, in charge of work in dietetics 
and meal planning, having worked out and proved a formula by which 
the food value of a list of foods can be calculated quickly and easily, has 
been applying it to the solution of various problems. A bulletin 
entitled "The Family Food Supply," which includes directions for com- 
puting food values according to the formula, is ready for publication. 
Blanks for recording foods as they are purchased or brought into the 
house have been prepared for use in coimection with the bulletin. A 
series of colored charts is being prepared also, which supplements the 
food and diet charts published by the Department of Agriculture 



1919] OFFICE OF HOME ECONOMICS 523 

several years ago. These new charts show graphically the principles of 
the wise selection and combination of food materials. For the con- 
venience of extension workers and teachers, as well as housekeepers 
who are especially interested in the question, a brief summary is being 
prepared which gives the essentials of the quick method of calculating 
food values and also shows how this method can be appUed in the 
preparation of exhibition material, either permanent material such as 
photographs and charts, or temporary material such as displays of 
foods, meals, or rations. A circular dealing with this topic is being 
prepared. 

Family Survey. The war emergency dietary survey, undertaken in 
cooperation with the Bureau of Markets, has been continued under the 
immediate supervision of Miss Elizabeth Koch and Miss Isla Wil- 
loughby, with Miss Lucy Gillett as consulting expert. Home economics 
workers, housekeepers, and managers of pubhc institutions have shown 
the same patriotic spirit in this work that was evident in so many other 
enterprises, and through their efforts about 2000 dietary records, each 
covering a period of 7 days, have been received representing 46 states 
and 16 nationalities. Of these, 1425 are family and 575 institutional 
studies. About 20 per cent of the family studies were made in rural 
districts — among farmers' families; 80 per cent in urban districts; one- 
eighth of the latter in famihes of laborers and seven-eighths in families 
of professional men. 

A summary of the results of 500 family dietaries has been completed. 
The average size of the family in these 500 studies is 4.9 individuals, 
equivalent to 3.6 men. They represent 46 states and 16 nationalities, 
and are divided according to occupational grouping as follows : families 
of mother wage earners; men at light work; men at moderate work; 
laborers; retired men; mechanics; professional women and students; 
clerks; merchants; male teachers; professional engineers; professional 
men; salesmen; and farmers. The average income of the families in 
these groups ranged from $754 for mother wage earners to $2924 for 
salesmen. Excluding the groups of farmers, whose incomes could not 
be stated with accuracy because they did not take account of home- 
grown products, the average income of all groups was $1905. The 
average cost of food per man per day was 46 cents, with an average 
return in food value of 3225 calories, 96 grams protein, 118 grams fat, 
and 445 grams carbohydrate; of the total energy protein furnished 11.9 
per cent, fat 33 per cent, and carbohydrate 55.1 per cent. These fig- 



524 THE JOURNAL OF HOifE ECONOMICS [December 

ures are in fairly close accord with the requirements of the dietary 
standard used in discussing such questions. A comparison has been 
made between the cost, energy, and protein of the chief foods of animal 
and vegetable sources, and the results show that greater economy 
might be secured by the more abundant use of foods of vegetable 
origin, especially cereals. An average of 47 calories per man per day 
for one cent was supplied by animal food, while the average per man 
per day obtained for one cent from vegetable food was 98 calories. 
Vegetable and animal foods each contributed an equal amount of protein 
to the diet. 

A comparison of the foodstuffs purchased by the present 500 families 
with the amounts of these same foods purchased by 400 families about 
twenty years ago, shows that the amount of meat in the diet has 
decreased about 8 per cent, and grain products about 1 1 per cent, while 
dairy products have increased about 6 per cent, vegetables 4 per cent, 
and fruits 8 per cent. The average amoimt of meat and fish supplied 
in the diet in the 500 studies was about 6 ounces per man per day, dairy 
products 16 ounces, grain products 13 ounces, vegetables 16 oimces, 
fruits 9 ounces, sugar and sirups 3 ounces, and fats 2 ounces. Although 
milk has increased to 14 ounces, or a little more than | quart, it might 
be used yet more freely to good advantage. It is a noticeable fact 
that the amount of milk did not increase in accordance with the greater 
number of children in the families, which indicates that the importance 
of a generous supply of milk for children was not realized. 

Judged by these studies as a whole, the average diet seems to be 
adequate; nevertheless, the fact remains that individual food habits 
need to be corrected, because out of 500 family studies, one-third were 
getting less than 88 grams of protein and 3000 calories of energy, amounts 
which are considered by some the minimum allowance desirable. 

Since physiological well-being is dependent upon an adequate supply 
of certain inorganic salts, the mineral content of the dietaries has been 
taken into account also and particularly calcium, iron, and phosphorus, 
experimental studies having shown that these mineral elements are those 
most likely to be deficient in the average dietary. The values proposed 
by Sherman (calcium 0.68 gram, iron 15 mgm., and phosphorus 1.32 
grams per man per day) have been adopted as a basis in judging the 
dietaries. As shown by records now completed for 200 of the 500 
families, it appears that 40 per cent of them fall below the standard for 
iron, 23 per cent below the standard for calcium, and 22 per cent below 



1919] OFFICE OF HOME ECONOMICS 525 

the standard for phosphorus. Judged by these figures, the average 
dietary is more apt to be deficient in iron than in calcium or in phos- 
phorus. The data summarized thus far indicate that milk and other 
dairy products supply the greatest percentage of calcium; vegetables 
and grain products, the greater percentage of iron; and dairy and grain 
products the greatest amount of phosphorus, and in each case at the 
lowest cost. 

The amount of information collected regarding group feeding is 
relatively large. Most of the principal types of institutions are repre- 
sented in the records of 575 studies on hand, including boarding houses, 
college commons, club houses, orphanages, homes for the aged, refonna- 
tories, and prisons. The interpretation of the results of these institu- 
tion dietaries is being continued and a summary of results is being 
prepared for publication. 

Under the immediate super\-ision of Miss Ilena Bailey, the results of 
her survey made in 91 farm homes in St. JosephCounty, Michigan, to 
secure statistical and other information pertaining to a number of prob- 
lems of household management and household labor, have been tabu- 
lated and critically studied. The survey which was made just before 
the United States entered the world war had to do with phases of farm 
home life, i.e., social questions, economics, household labor, and house- 
hold equipment. The area studied is typical of the East-North-Central 
States in the proportion of tenants, the size of farms and the t^-pe of 
farming. One might, therefore, assume the farm home life to be t>-p- 
ical also for this region. 

A general question asked the farm women was their opinion regard- 
ing farm life. It is interesting to find that 76 per cent of them pre- 
ferred farm Ufe to that of town or city, although some objected to the 
hard work on the farm, or said that farm life was too confining. Another 
important point brought out by the question, "What improvements do 
you desire in the community?" was that 41 per cent of them desired 
none, while the remainder desired improvements in roads, schools and 
churches, and general social life. It would seem fair to say that many of 
the women had not yet been awakened to the possibilities of community 
advancement. 

To the question "WTiat improvements do you want in your home?" 
6 had no desire for any improvement, while 60 to 70 per cent wanted 
electric lights, furnace heat, running water, and bathroom. To stu- 
dents of home economics it will be interesting to know that 24 per cent 



526 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [December 

wanted repairs or additions to houses and 6 per cent desired new furnish- 
ings. The houses averaged eight rooms and the families including reg- 
ular hired help averaged 4.1 persons so that there was no crowding 
except such as was done for convenience and economy in heating. 

Only one-fifth of these farm women had hired help at any time, two- 
thirds depended upon the help given by members of the family and 
one-tenth stated that they had no help. The average length of a farm 
woman's day in this locality was 13 hours in summer and 10 in winter. 
This includes time spent at meals. They estimated that they had 1^ 
hours of leisure daily in simimer and 2| in winter. More than one- 
fourth of the women took no pleasure trips by automobile or train dur- 
ing the year, the others took trips averaging 55 miles. On only three 
farms did the men have the entire care of the poultry, while 69 per cent 
of the women cared for it aU of the year. In two of the three areas 72 
per cent of the women helped all or a part of the day with farm work dur- 
ing the busy season. The average number of days illness per family was 
39| days, 15 days of this being ascribable to chronic illness of aged 
persons in the family. 

To those who are interested in getting the results of research work in 
home problems to the women, it is important to know that 96 per cent 
of these homes subscribed for newspapers (usually a local paper), and 
that fully half subscribed to some daily paper. Agricultural papers 
were next in popularity and then came women's magazines which were 
taken by 69 per cent. From this there was a big drop to the 19 per 
cent who took general magazines. 

To those doing field work it is of interest to know that 23 per cent of 
these farm women were not members of any social or study club, can- 
ning club or other organization; that 32 per cent were members of one 
club, usually a church society or aid society; and that 45 per cent were 
members of two or more clubs. 

Some of the most important points shown by the economic data, for 
these prewar conditions, are as follows: Cost of clothing per family, 
$114.00; per person, $33.00; 89 per cent out of 27 reported depended 
upon the "butter, poultry, and egg money," to pay for the food pur- 
chased, household supplies, and part of the family clothing; only 6 out 
of the 69 reporting had a bank account separate from that of the hus- 
bands for household expenses. These are only a few of the points cov- 
ered. It is expected that the data will be published as a department 
bulletin in the near future. 



1919] OFFICE OF HOME ECOXOMICS 527 

Miss Bailey also completed a report regarding results of home admin- 
istration work carried on in cooperation with the Office of Extension 
Work in the North and West previous to the farm home studies referred 
to above and has cooperated in an experimental study of the possibili" 
ties of a loose leaf handbook designed to keep extension workers sup- 
plied with up-to-date information on topics of special interest to 
them. 

Experimental Studies of Digestion. The experimental studies of digesti- 
bility of foods of different sorts have been continued and have included 
about 130 individual tests. Mr. H. J. Deuel has charge of the details 
of the experimental work and has had the benefit of the advice and 
experience of Dr. A. D. Holmes, who had charge of the work until 
December, 1918, when he left the Department of Agriculture to take 
up other work. A list of the year's publications reporting work on the 
thoroughness of digestion of various foods is included below (page 529). 

Research Work in Calorimetry. The research work with the respiration 
calorimeter has been carried on as heretofore under the immediate super- 
vision of Mr. H. G. Barott. A report has been prepared for publication 
summarizing experimental data accumulated in the study previously re- 
ferred to^ of energy expenditure for household tasks. Continuation of 
this work was postponed in order that investigations might be carried 
on, in cooperation with the Bureau of Markets of the Department of 
Agriculture, to obtain data regarding the specific heat of fruits and 
vegetables in original containers, a kind of information needed for the 
discussion of problems concerned with the commercial storage of such 
products. The work was done with a well known market variety of 
apples in original barrels and some interesting resiolts were obtained. 
Since values for specific heat were desired over a comparatively wide 
range of temperature, e.g., from room temperature to those used in 
commercial storage, the system for cooling the calorimeters had to be 
redesigned and modified to include low temperature which had not 
been required in kinds of work previously undertaken. Although too 
limited as yet for general deductions regarding the absolute relations 
between temperature and specific heat or energy elimination the results 
obtained in this series of studies with apples are of decided interest and 
were useful for the special purpose for which the work was undertaken. 
The following may be taken as a tentative average value for the specific 
heat and energy elimination of York Imperial apples, No. 1 quality, 

*Jour. Borne Econ., 11 (1919), No. 1, p. 13. 



528 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [December 

over a range of temperatures from 10°C. to 30°C. Specific heat of 
fruit and containers 0.93 as compared to water at 1 per cent; and energy 
elimination of fruit | calorie per hour, per kilogram of fruit. This 
work is closely related to a study previously undertaken, in the respira- 
tion calorimeter laboratories, of the gaseous exchange and heat elimina- 
tion of fruits and vegetables after maturity, due to the enzymic or other 
action which takes place during ripening, decay, and the intervening 
period. A report of such work, previously published,' giving data on 
the energy elimination and gaseous exchange of ripening bananas shows 
that the results obtained wdth the apples are directly comparable with 
those previously determined. The same can be said of results not yet 
reported which were obtained with pineapples during the active ripen- 
ing period which they undergo after shipment for market. 

Because of war emergency conditions it was not possible to continue 
the respiration calorimeter studies, undertaken in cooperation with the 
Bureau of Entomology, of methods and conditions attending the winter- 
ing of bees. However, some special apparatus necessary for the work 
was constructed and assembled and everything is in readiness for the 
continuation of this work, unless unforeseen contingencies arise. 

The war emergency situation also prevented continuation of work 
on a line of investigation which promises valuable results, namely the 
gaseous exchange and energy elimination of hens' eggs during the incu- 
bation period. It is hoped that the plan previously formulated for the 
continuation of this work in cooperation with the Bureau of Animal 
Industry may be continued. 

It is perhaps of interest to know that the experimental studies 
referred to above have demonstrated the suitability of respiration calorim- 
eter methods for the experimental study of new lines of agricultural 
research, namely, problems related to the bee keeping industry and the 
%vintering and handhng of bees, and many problems of plant life. 

Editorial Work and Publications. The preparation of material for 
pubUcation has been under the immediate supervision of Miss Helen 
W. Atwater. At different times during the year, the Office of Home 
Economics has been fortunate in having the temporary editorial assist- 
ance of Mrs. Sara Mundo of Pittsburgh; Miss EUzabeth Bower, formerly 
of the State College of Agriculture of Pennsylvania; Mrs. Lilhan Wilcox 
Hershey, of Indiana; Miss Mabel Wellman, Head of the Home Econom- 

^ Department of Agriculture Yearbook, 1912, pp. 293-308, "Some Results in Studying 
Ripening Bananas with the Respiration Calorimeter." 



1919] OFFICE OF HOME ECONOMICS 529 

ics Department of the University of Indiana; and Miss Ruth Van 
Deman, of the Editorial Office of the College of Agriculture, Cornell 
University. 

Since, in general, pubUcations lag behind the work on which they are 
based, a list of those for a given year deals more with past than with 
present conditions. This is perhaps especially marked in the current 
year, which, as far as popular and emergency work is concerned, is 
divided by the armistice into two somewhat distinct parts. Up to 
November, 1918, precedence was given to material which would aid 
in conservation of food, fuel, and the other articles made scarce by the 
war. Since that time much material of that kind has lost its signifi- 
cance and either has been held back from publication or its "slant" is 
being changed to make it of greater value under present conditions. 

The papers prepared here for pubhcation through the Department 
fall into three general classes: (1) Professional or technical papers, which 
appear chiefly as Department Bulletins for limited free distribution and 
for sale at a nominal price; (2) more popular papers published as Farm- 
ers' Bulletins and drciilars and intended for wide free distribution; 
and (3) brief popular articles supphed to the Office of Information and 
used by it in the pubhcity work of the Department. 

During the year the following technical bulletins representing the work 
of the digestion laboratory have been submitted for publication: U. S. 
Department of Agriculture Bulletins Nos. 613, "Digestibility of Certain 
Miscellaneous Animal Fats;" 717, "Digestibihty of Protein Supplied by 
Soy Bean and Peanut Press-cake Flours;" 751, "Experiments on the 
Digestibihty of Wheat Bran in a Diet Without Wheat Flour;" 781, 
"Digestibihty of Some By-Product Oils;" and "The Effect of Milling 
on the Digestibihty of Black-hull Kafir in Comparison with Corn," and 
"Digestibihty of Water-ground Buckwheat." 

Bulletins on the following subjects have been prepared and await 
publication: "The Digestibihty of Certain Hydrogenated Oils;" "The 
Digestibihty of Certain Miscellaneous Vegetable Fats (Cohune, Pahn 
Kernel, Hemp-seed, and Poppy-seed Oils, and Avocado and Cupuassu 
Fats);" "The Digestibihty of Wheat Flours of Different Sorts;" "The 
Digestibihty of Certain Meats (Horse, Corned Seal Hams, Kid, and 
Rabbit.)" Reports of experiments in food preparation are referred to 
elsewhere (page 522). 

The list of Farmers' Bulletins prepared in the Office of Home Eco- 
nomics is shorter than in some years, partly because of delay due to the 



530 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [December 

necessary recasting of material since the cessation of hostilities, and 
partly to the fact that much of the time of the editorial force has been 
required for cooperative work with other bureaus and departments. 
Farmers' Bulletins on the "Family Food Supply," on "Rice," on 
"Fish," on the "Care and Selection of Clothing," and on "Home Laun- 
dering," and revisions of earlier bulletins are now on their way through 
the press. 

Circulars have been issued on such emergency subjects as "Corn- 
meal and Corn Flour to Save Wheat;" "Rice Flour to Save Wheat;" 
and "Oats to Save Wheat." 

The Office of Home Economics has contributed over fifty brief, pop- 
ular articles on a variety of home economics topics to the Department's 
weekly syndicate service furnished to the newspapers through the Office 
of Information and has also prepared many news items for the Weekly 
News Letter sent out by that office. This material has been prepared 
chiefly by Miss Louise Pritchett and later by Miss Ruth Baird. 

Cooperation with other Departments and Outside Agencies. One impor- 
tant part of the work of the Office of Home Economics is cooperation 
in the preparation of material needed by other branches of the States 
Relations Service. Examples of this are seen in such publications as 
Farmers' Bulletin 955, "Use of Wheat Flour Substitutes in Baking," 
prepared by Miss Wessling of the Office of Extension Work in the South, 
in cooperation with the Office of Home Economics, and in several mimeo- 
graphed circulars for the boys' and girls' club work and other work of 
the Office of Extension Work in the North and West, including one 
entitled, "How to Dress Well at Small Cost," now being printed as a 
Department circular. 

Aside from the cooperation with other branches of States Relations 
Service, this office, in accordance with the general policy of the Depart- 
ment, submits its manuscript to other bureaus dealing with related 
subjects, and goes over those touching on home economics subjects 
prepared by other bureaus. 

In a similar way it has been called into consultation by the Federal 
Board for Vocational Education regarding a bulletin giving a course of 
lessons on the "Choice and Preparation of Food," and is at present 
cooperating with the American Red Cross in the preparation of its 
forthcoming outline lessons in home dietetics. 

A cooperative pubUcation issued witliin the year is the course of 
lessons entitled "The Day's Food in War and Peace." This was pre- 



1919] OFFICE OF HOME ECONOMICS 531 

pared by the Food Administration, the Woman's Committee of the 
Council of National Defense, and the Department of Agriculture, act- 
ing together. The remainder of the edition is now in the Office of 
Home Economics and copies may be obtained by application o the 
Department. 

There has been more or less formal cooperation and a free exchange of 
notes on material between the Office of Home Economics and branches 
of the Department of Labor and Department of War, which were espe- 
cially interesting. There has also been some cooperation between the 
Office of Home Economics, the War Labor Board, and the Bureau of 
Naturalization of the Department of Labor. 

The cooperation with the Woman's Committee of the Council of 
National Defense, begun in August, 1917, was continued until the 
autumn of 1918, when the Washington force of the Woman's Com- 
mittee was amalgamated with that of the State Councils Section to 
form the Field Division of the Council of National Defense. 

Miss Atwater had been serving as Executive Chairman of the Depart- 
ment of Food Production and Home Economics of the Woman's Com- 
mittee and had been gradually extending her work to include thrift in 
fuel, clothing, and other materials, as well as in food. She was therefore 
assigned to the Federal Agencies Section of the Field Division of the 
Woman's Committee and given charge of its work in general thrift. 
Since the armistice, the work of the Field Di\-ision has, of course, grad- 
ually lapsed though the skeleton of the organization still remains. 

One feature of the work of the Woman's Committee of special inter- 
est to home economics workers, in which the Office of Home Economics 
participated, is a "Survey of Agencies for the Sale of Cooked Foods 
Without Profit." The survey was made by Dr. Iva Lowther Peters 
and the report was published early in 1919. Copies may be obtained 
on application to the Council of National Defense, Washington, D. C, 
or to this office. 

A piece of cooperative work of special interest has been undertaken 
with the Savings Division of the Treasury' Department. When plans 
were made for the educational part of the thrift campaign which the 
Savings Di\-ision of the Treasury Department is conducting, coopera- 
tion with the Department of Agriodture was requested by the Treas- 
ury Department, with the result that the Office of Home Economics 
was called into consultation and cooperation. Miss Atwater repre- 
sented this office. Dr. Benjamin R. Andrews, of the Savings Division 



532 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [December 

of the Treasury Department, Mrs. Alice P. Norton, and Miss S. Maria 
Elliott represented the Treasury Department. 

Aside from aid in bringing the thrift work of the Department of 
Agriculture and especially of the Extension Services into hne with that 
of the Treasury, the most important phase of this cooperation has been 
the preparation of a series of twenty U. S. Thrift Leaflets. These are 
similar in size to the U. S. Food Leaflets and are published by the two 
Departments jointly. To assist in their preparation, the Office of 
Home Economics had the good fortune to secure the services of Miss 
Sarah MacLeod of Pratt Institute. The titles are: Is Thrift Worth 
While; Seven Steps Towards Saving; Clothing for the Family; Saving 
Time and Money by Simple House Cleaning; Saving Labor and Mate- 
rials by Easier Laundry Methods; How to Remove Stains; Take Care 
of Your Clothing; Saving Materials and Money by Special Cleaning; 
Thrift in Lighting; Thrift in Choice, Care, and Use of Kitchen Utensils; 
Sa\ing Fuel in Heating; Saving Fuel in Cooking; Saving Food by Proper 
Care; Inexpensive Ways of Keeping Food Cool; How Shall We Choose 
Our Food; The Weekly Market Basket; Thrift for the Farm Home; 
Home Thrift for Children; Business Methods in the Home; Thrift 
Accounts for Boys and Girls. 

These leaflets may be obtained in small quantities from the U. S. 
Department of Agriculture. Large orders should be placed with the 
Regional Directors of the Federal Reserve Banks. 

As is the case with other Government activities the Office of Home 
Economics reaches the pubUc not only through Department bulletins 
and other publications, but also by correspondence, conferences, and 
similar ways. This feature of the work, which has grown rapidly, has 
been systematized and it may fairly be regarded as one of its most 
interesting as well as useful functions, because in this way it is possible 
to secure direct contact with individual housekeepers, teachers, exten- 
sion workers, and others. The importance of this contact, which was 
demonstrated during the war emergency situation, has also been noted 
during the changing conditions which followed the signing of the ; rmis- 
tice and it is plaimed to shape experimental and research work and 
other activities to contribute to the solution of the problems which will 
arise after peace is assured. 



1919] A COURSE IX TEXTILE SHOPPING 533 

A COURSE IN TEXTILE SHOPPING 

IVA L. BRANDT 
Hoitseliold Art Department, Iowa Slate College, Ames, Iowa 

Outside of the buying of materials for the laboratory problen^s, the 
average student in clothing courses knows very little about shopping. 
Even students who are fairly good shoppers for themselves know little 
about shopping for other members of the family; still fewer can shop 
with limited means. Textile courses, like textile text books often deal 
too much with technical processes, cultivation, preparation, and manu- 
facturing, and not enough with the side in which women should be most 
interested — the marketing, retailing, and buying of the products of the 
mills, factories, and shops. An attempt has been made in the textile 
course here described to place the emphasis on the buying of clothing 
and household textiles. 

The aim has been to make the student conscious of woman's great 
responsibility as the chief spender of the family income, and especially 
to make her realize, as the purchaser of textiles and clothing for the 
home, the need of preparation for intelligent buying. The previous 
knowledge of the students in regard to textiles and the economics of 
buying and selling has been brought together and applied to this 
problem. An attempt has been made to stimulate the student to ascer- 
tain the facts concerning the present facilities and future possibih- 
ties of the shops in order to establish a better spirit of cooperation 
between consumer and dealer, and so develop better shopping 
habits. 

It is generally admitted that the successful shopper has a definite 
idea of what she wants before approaching the saleswoman; asks for the 
desired article in a definite way, that the clerk may waste no time in 
finding it, as, for example, "Please show me a pair of full fashioned fine 
lisle stockings, brown, number 9|;" and is reasonable in requests to 
have goods taken down from the shelves when she really does not 
intend to buy. Leeds in his "Household Budget" says, "Much time 
idled away in so called 'shopping,' if considered in the light of diversion, 
is no more wasteful of one's leisure time than is card playing or gossiping, 
but, if considered from the standpoint of using up time needed for pro- 
ductive work, must be regarded as an extravagance which many who 
indulge in this custom can ill afford." 



534 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [December 

Much time is wasted not only in the way Leeds has here suggested, 
but in other ways. The woman who sits down to make an apron and 
finds she is out of thread, or picks up her mending and fails to find the 
darning cotton of the right color, or begins her weekly mending and 
finds she has no buttons to replace those that have been taken off in 
the laundering, must either go or send for the supplies she wants or 
substitute some other work, and this time is wasted or her work is 
disorganized. 

Such an individual has not formed the habit of systematically buy- 
ing in quantities such staples as cotton and silk thread in black and 
white, bias tape, darning cotton in the colors most used, pearl buttons 
in several sizes, and other materials in constant use. Where clothing 
is made at home, using the same size and style of pearl buttons as far 
as practical on all garments would eliminate the problem of matching 
buttons at mending time. 

Staple materials that require no judgment in selection may be ordered 
by telephone and this is often a saving of time. Care should, of course, 
be taken not to request the delivery of small amounts of inexpensive 



The five questions which naturally arise in connection with buying — 
why, what, when, how, and where — were taken as the basis of the gen- 
eral outline of the course. The first three questions relate definitely to 
the consumer and her needs, the last two show the relation between 
the consumer and the dealer. 

In connection with the first question, why buy, the girls through dis- 
cussion and answering questions, were taught that there must be a 
reason back of all buying, and to the extent that the reasons for buying 
are valid to that extent the buying is justifiable. An analysis of their 
own buying led to the conclusion that much of the extravagance in 
buying is due to the fact that there is no need for the article purchased. 
It is bought because it is cheap, because it is the latest thing, fashion- 
able or exclusive; because the saleswoman said it was "so becoming" 
or because our friends will note the costliness of the purchase; not be- 
cause the article is really needed. When purchased from any of these 
motives it often hangs in the closet or lies in the drawer and is never 
worn, because the design or color is not becoming, or the color does not 
harmonize with the rest of the wardrobe, or the material is too coarse. 

Then the class discussed the basis for the decision 'ivhal to buy, bring- 
ing out the idea that the solution lies in the shopper's own judgment, 



1919] A COURSE IN TEXTILE SHOPPIXG 535 

based upon her experience and that of her friends, or the judgment of 
the salespeople, and that neither of these can be taken as infallible. 
With the training for greater efficiency in buying, given by the home 
economics courses for the shopper, and the new and rapidh' developing 
field of study for training salespeople, there should result a combined 
judgment that will greatly simplify the problem of the textiles and 
clothing purchase. 

Standard goods versus season novelties was the chief line of study 
under what to buy, including both materials by the yard and ready made 
garments, considering design, texture, and color. Under ready made 
garments, underwear, both knitted and muslin, hosiery, shoes, gloves, 
and corsets were considered. 

Styles were discussed in connection with novelties, the setting of 
styles, their adoption and their influence upon the making, selling, and 
buv-ing of cloth and of ready made garments. A study was made of two 
movements that are coping with the evil results of the constantly chang- 
ing styles — that of standardizing dress, using the term in its broadest 
meaning, that of simplified dress, not a uniform type; and that of the 
adoption of American fabrics and designs which will free from the hyp- 
notic influence of the word "imported." 

When to buy included discussions of the advantage and disadvantage 
of buying at the beginning of the season, during the season, and at the 
close of the season; the regular yearly sales; legitimate and illegitimate 
sales; and the great need of exercising judgment in buying at sales. 

How to buy included information concerning personal and catalogue 
shopping and experience in both. The subject matter involved was the 
psychology of shopping, courtesy of shoppers and their treatment of 
salespeople, and treatment to be expected by shoppers; the abuse of the 
returned goods habit; methods of payment, advantages and disad- 
vantages of cash and charge accounts (including how to open accounts), 
and the installment plan. In catalogue shopping the necessity for 
accuracy in filling out order blanks was emphasized by actually filling 
out blanks until skill was attained. Methods of sending money were 
also discussed. 

It was recommended that girls take advantage of every opportunity 
to become saleswomen, were it only for a short time, since in this way 
they may gain two things which come only from experience, namely: 
they see the shopper from the sales person's point of view, and they 
learn the sales person's problems and so are less apt to be unreasonable 
in their demands as a shopper. 



536 THE JOURNAL OF HOME EcoxoMics [December 

In discussing the question of where to buy, the girls were encouraged 
to patronize their home dealers first, but not to be limited or prejudiced 
by them. If they cannot get the best values and prices in their home 
towns then trade elsewhere, at department stores and specialty shops 
in the nearby city, or at mail order houses, considering, of course, the 
time and expense in shopping out of town and the expense of express 
and postage in trading by catalogue. 

The course was given in the form of lectures and laboratory work; 
the latter consisting of individual problems for the student to work out. 
Each student was given a special subject for study; for example, one 
student was given the subject of hosiery. The local dealers loaned us a 
full line of hosiery, the cheaper cottons, finer lisle, and various grades 
of silk in as many makes as they carried. The class spent one labora- 
tory period in the study of stockings, comparing the various makes as 
to shape and style (full fashioned, seamless, and seamless fashioned), 
price, quality of yarn, weight, and length of guarantee. The student 
then went on independently with her problem which was to find out 
the makes which would render the best service, and she asked some of 
the faculty members and students if they would be willing to test out 
these stockings by wearing them and giving her the results of their 
test along the lines of fading and shrinking with laundry, holding their 
shape, and length of time worn before holes or runners appeared. 

Other similar problems were the testing of draperies, ginghams, and 
printed voiles as to fading in sun and in laundering. Those that faded 
in laundering were also tested by setting the color and then laundering 
and the result compared to the first test. 

Comparisons were made between ready made garments and the gar- 
ments made by the various sewing classes, including wool skirts, silk 
blouses, white wash skirts, voile dresses, and children's garments, in 
order to establish standards by which judgments might be formed in 
regard to design, price, materials, and construction. 

Each girl received at different times shopping assignments. They 
included the buying of garments for various occasions and for various 
ages — the child in the kindergarten, in the grades, in the high school, 
and in the college. At one time the students shopped for material by 
the yard and brought to the laboratory a tracing of the appropriate 
design, together with the samples of materials chosen, both materials 
for the garment and the trimmings and accessories. For example, the 
girl who had a summer travelling dress for a college student as her 



1919] A COURSE IN TEXTILE SHOPPING . 537 

assignment, selected a soft navy blue silk for the dress and several 
samples of organdy and linens in harmonious colors for different cuff 
and collar sets which could be easily attached and would give the cos- 
tume a fresh look. These purchases were brought to the laboratory 
and the girls gave their reasons for the selection of design and material 
and the reasons were discussed by the class. 

The second problem was shopping for ready made garments of vari- 
ous types. Arrangements were made with the local merchants by 
which these garments were brought to the laboratory for class discussion. 

In connection with their specal topics the students sent out several 
questionnaires. One girl had "Shopping in the Small Towns" for her 
topic, and she arranged with all the class members to send blanks to 
their home firms all over the state asking questions in regard to the 
merchandise carried. For instance the firms were asked to name in 
order of the best sellers the makes of hosiery for adults and children, 
shoes for adults and children, corsets for adults and juniors, knitted 
underwear, gloves, sheeting, pillow case tubing, muslin, table linen, 
rugs, and draperies. One blank space was left for the merchant's com- 
ments as to the good features of the merchandise carried. He was also 
asked what ready made garments were carried. 

Another special topic was "How Clothing is Purchased." A ques- 
tionnaire was sent to the mothers of the students, and to the faculty 
women, asking them to Hst the garments both for children and adults 
that they bought ready made, hired made outside of the home by dress- 
makers, hired made in the home by seamstresses and had made by 
members of the family. They were also asked whether they bought 
the following articles ready made, or made them at home and why — 
curtains, sheets, pillowcases, towels, comforters. The questionnaire 
included the following questions: "What kind of a rug have you found 
most serviceable in your living room?" "What drapery materials 
(give trade name if possible) have you found most satisfactory?" Very 
good responses to these questionnaires have been received and some 
valuable information was available when they were tabulated. 

The special reports were given at the end of the term, each student 
giving her report before the entire class, so that every girl might have 
the benefit of all the reports. Each student obtained as much infor- 
mation as possible based upon practical experience from the question- 
naires and from inquiries among her friends besides that from the 
experimental work done in the laboratory. She kept up with market 



538 



THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS 



[December 



conditions and prices, and advertising materials in the textile and trade 
magazines, such as Dry Goods Economist, Merchants Trade Journal, 
Textile World Journal, and Women's Wear. From all of this knowledge 
the student formed her judgment, and the summary of her report was 
given in such a form that the others of the class could tabulate it in 
the following outhne: 













Textile knowledge 












TKADE HAKES 


MATERIALS 


PRICES 1 STOCK SI2ES DESIGN 






















Per 
yard 


Ready 
made 














1 








2 




























3 

























































Wearing quality 





SHRINKAGE 


FADING 






Light 


Lavindiy 


Crocking 




1 












2 












3 





























Where to buy 






DEPARTMENT STORES 


BASEMENT 
STORE 


SPECIALTY 
SHOP 


CHAIN STORE 


MAIL ORDER 


Small town 


City 




1 












2 












3 



























When to buy 




PALL 


W^TER 


SPRING 


SUMMER 


1 









2 








3 

















Since some definite form was needed for keeping data, easily acces- 
sible, convenient, and eliminating the taking of many notes, the 
above form for tabulation was worked out as a class problem. The out- 



1919] A COURSE Ii\ TEXTILE SHOPPING 539 

line was made to include tabulation of materials on any article of wear- 
ing apparel that might be studied. Under material the spaces were 
left blank to be tilled in by the student. If table linen was the subject 
for data, she would write Unen, union, mercerized cotton; if a ready 
made gannent, to these might be added silk, wool, and artificial silk; 
if shoes was the subject, patent leather, kid, or calf skin, and if hats, 
felt or straw. Under design the spaces were left blank for the same 
reason, that the same terms would not apply to all articles studied. 
Shoes would be classified as pumps, oxfords, boots; coats as tailored, 
semi-tailored; drapery material as plain, printed and woven, and so on. 

Numbers were used to indicate the various makes of the article 
studied. Hosiery, for example, would be written in the blank space 
under trade names; 1 might be Phoenix, 2 Eiffel, 3 Wayne knit, and in 
all of the outline the material under 3 would refer to Wayne knit hosiery. 

The course was supplemented by outside lectures given by people 
directly connected with the trades. The proprietor of a leading shoe 
store gave two lectures on the buying of shoes. A buyer of linen for 
one of the largest department stores in the state gave a lecture on linen 
buying. The educational director from one of the largest state depart- 
ment stores gave a talk upon her work with the sales people in training 
them to "serve the shopper more efficiently." A corsetiere gave a 
talk on selecting and buying corsets. 

From the visual instruction department were secured a number of 
moving pictures on such subjects as "the making of shoes," "gloves," 
and "laces, both machine and handmade." The class visited several 
factories and mills — a hosier}' mill where seamless stockings were knitted ; 
a woolen mill where mule spinning and wea\-ing of plaid mackinaw 
materials were carried on, and a skirt factory where one saw every step 
in the designing, cutting, and making of wool and silk skirts. 

When the trade magazines began to be so full of the subject of the re- 
vival of hand made and machine made laces and embroideries, and it 
was talked about to such an extent that one week was designated by mer- 
chants over the country as "lace and embroidery week;" when the Dry 
Goods Economist came out with a price list of laces on the market, which 
included, not only machine made and "real" Valenciennes, Chantilly, 
Torchon, Cluny, but also the hand made laces— Venetian point, Duchess, 
Limerick and Carrickmacross, the students found it quite worth while 
to spend some time studying laces, especially in learning to distinguish 
hand made from imitation, so that they might not be imposed upon by 
women who will again be going about with so called hand made laces. 



540 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [December 

As each year brings certain accessories to special notice, the time 
given to them will vary with the importance of the article. 

As implied in the beginning of this article, it is time that our schools 
and colleges give information and skill which will function in better 
buying. The shopper must be as definitely trained as the salesman, 
and the training must develop judgment as well as give information. 

It is the desire of the writer that this article may be freely dis- 
cussed. Many other schools have given courses with the same aim, 
that of making better buyers, and it is hoped that they will give the 
readers of the Journal the benefit of their experience. 



STUDY OF COMPARATIVE WASTE IN A DINING HALL 
AND IN A CAFETERIA 

NOLA TREAT AND LENORE RICHARDS 
Division of Home Economics, University of Minnesota 

This study was made for the purpose of finding the relative economy 
of different methods of feeding students. Two types of service, a la 
carte and table d'hote, were studied, with a cafeteria and dining hall 
as examples. The cafeteria serves faculty and college students. The 
dining hall serves students of the high school age and older. Both are 
located in the same building on the Agricultural Campus of the Uni- 
versity of Minnesota. They are under the same management, with 
food of the same quality, purchased regardless of the institution in 
which it is to be used, kept in a common storeroom, and issued to the 
respective kitchens. The same recipes are also used in both institu- 
tions, though each kitchen employs its own corps of workers. The 
differences are that the same cooks are not employed in each; 
separate kitchens are maintained ; and the rate of board in the dining 
hall is $4.00 per week while the patrons of the cafeteria spend as much 
or little as they wish, the amount ranging from $5.00 to $6.00 per week. 

The method of study was as follows. After the dinner had been 
served at night in the dining hall, two students* collected the waste 

' Credit for this data should be given Fern Sewell and EIna Boss, students in the 
Institutional Management classes in the Division of Home Economics at the University of 
Minnesota. 



1919] 



WASTE IN A DINING HALL AND A CAFETERL'i 



541 



from the tables. This waste was then sorted, in the way indicated 
in the following table, and weighed. In the cafeteria the same two 
students received the dishes from the noon meal, in the scraping room. 









Table showing 


d'oste in the dining haU 




DATE 
1919 


KTHTBES 
SERVED 


EDIBLE WASTE 


INEDI- 
BLE 

WASTE 


TOTAL 
WASTE 


REMARKS 






Eiclud- 




















bread 
and but- 
ter 


Butter 


Bread 


ToUl 


Per 
person 


lbs. 


lbs. 






lbs. 


lis. 


lis. 


lbs. 


lbs. 




2/17 


336 


2.5 


0.375 


1.375 


4.25 


0.0126 




4.25 


Chiefly chocolate 


2/19 


334 


12.5 


0.375 


1.375 


14.25 


0.0426 


2.25 


16.5 


pie 


3/5 


320 


8.75 


0.125 


2.0 


10.875 


0.0339 


0.75 


11.625 




3/6 


309 


17.125 


0.375 


1.25 


18.75 


0.0606 


0.375 


19.125 


Large amount of 
tomatoes 


3/7 


311 


8.25 


0.25 


1.875 


10.375 


0.0334 




10.375 


Considerable but- 
terscotch pie 


Average.. 


322 


9.825 


0.3 


1.575 


11.7 


0.0366 


0.675 


12.375 





Table showing waste in the cafeteria 



DATE 
1919 


KUMBER 
SERVED 


EDIBLE WASTE 


INEDIBLE 
WASTE 


TOTAL 
WASTE 






Excluding 

bread and 

butter 


Butter 


Bread 


Tetal 


Per person 


lbs. 






lbs. 


lbs. 


lbs. 


lbs. 


lbs. 


lbs. 


2/18 


223 


3.875 


0.125 


0.25 


4.25 


0.019 


1.125 


5.375 


2/20 


218 


4.875 


0.125 


0.375 


5.375 


0.0247 


0.375 


5.75 


3/4 


212 


3.625 


0.25 




3.875 


0.0182 


0.75 


4.625 


3/6 


205 


4.0 


0.25 


0.25 


4.50 


0.022 


4.0 


8.5 


3/7 


199 


4.125 


0.125 


0.125 


4.375 


0.0219 




4.375 


Average 


211 


4.1 


0.175 


0.2 


4.475 


0.0212 


1.25 


5.725 



The average waste per meal as shown by the above chart was therefore: 





DINING HALL 


CAraTEEIA 


Bread 


lbs. 

1.575 
11.7 

0.675 
12.375 

0.0366 


lbs. 

0.2 




4.475 




1.25 




5.725 




0.0212 







542 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [December 

They separated and weighed each kind of waste as stated below. The 
noon meal was chosen in the cafeteria and the night meal in the dining 
hall because those were the two meals which were most nearly the 
same as to menu and number served. 

Since the amoimt of butter served in the dining hall was limited, 
there was little wasted; hence it is impossible to make a comparative 
study of the waste in butter. 

As the above tables show, the only instance in which the waste in 
the cafeteria exceeded that in the dining hall was in the case of the 
inedible waste. The e.xplanation of this doubtless lies in the fact that 
steaks and chops were serxed in the cafeteria and were not served in 
the dining hall. 

Using the cafeteria as a unit of comparison, the amount of waste is as 
follows: 

The amount of bread wasted in the dining hall was 7.87 times as much 
as that in the cafeteria. 

The total edible waste in the dining hall was 2.61 times as much as 
that in the cafeteria. 

The inedible waste in the dining hall was .54 of that in the cafeteria. 

The total waste in the dining hall was 2.16 times as much as that in 
the cafeteria. 

The waste per person in the dining hall was 1.72 times as much as 
that in the cafeteria. 

From the above, the following conclusions may be drawn: 

1 . The a la carte, in this case the cafeteria, type of service results in 
less waste and is therefore more economical. 

2. Since the food was of practically the same quality in each case, it 
would seem that the greater percentage of waste in the dining hall is 
due to: 

(a) Lack of appreciation of food cost when students can have as 
much as they wish to eat at a set price. 

(b) Lack of responsibility toward waste. 

(c) The fact that the amount paid for board, which is almost a mini- 
mum, must cover not only food, as in the cafeteria, but service as well, 
limits to some extent the variety which may be served. This caused 
a certain unavoidable monotony in the menu which was not found in 
the cafeteria, where such things as head lettuce, new rhubarb, and cauli- 
flower may be served and charged for according to cost. 



FOR THE HOMEMAKER 

THE PROBLEM OF THE HIGH COST OF LIVING 

There was presented to Congress last Augiist a report,' prepared by 
the Director of the Council of National Defense, containing a careful 
study of the reasons for the high cost of living, and some suggestions 
for remedial measures. The increase in cost is attributed primarily to 
four ditTerent causes: curtailment of production, hoarding of storage 
food products, profiteering, conscious and unconscious, and inflation of 
circulating credit. This problem is but one phase of the larger problem 
of readjustment under after-war conditions. It is so interrelated with 
other reconstruction problems that a full discussion of it would mean a 
discussion of the whole question of reconstruction. It is not a new 
problem nor a problem of transitory character; it will not in the natural 
course be outgrown and left behind as, with the passing of time, we 
get farther and farther away from the recently closed war. To some 
extent it was a pre-war as well as a post-war problem, but it has re- 
asserted itself under conditions which have become aggravated. Not 
only have prices risen with increased rapidity during the war, but the 
pubUc mind has also become more impatient and more accustomed to 
insisting that problems be met with solutions of a kind that bring tan- 
gible results. 

While the cost of living is much talked about, its gravity is still but 
inadequately realized. It means a tendency toward the lowering of 
standards of living; it accompanies reduced production; it is a cause of 
the neglect to provide for future national requirements, as well as of 
other sorts of disorder in both private and public economy. 

The fundamental basis for the maintenance of national standards of 
living is adequate production, economical distribution, and fair appor- 
tionment among the various economic groups which constitute society. 

' Analysis of the High Cost of Living Problem. Submitted by Grosvenor li. Cl:irkson, 
Director of the Council of National Defense, to Secretary Baker, Chairman of the Council, 
and transmitted by him to the members of Congress. In this summan,' quotations have 
betn made freely from the original report. 

543 



544 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [December 

That America has the ability to produce enough goods to maintain 
and even increase the standard of hving was shown during war time. 
Fair and equitable distribution of goods is a problem still imsolved. 
Production has in general been abnormally low since the armistice, 
except in the case of agricultural products. Food . production was 
improved rather than injured during the war, and has continued to be 
maintained. Cereals, meats, and garden products are apparently 
adequate in supply. 

The clothing condition is a very different one. When the war came 
to an end the supply of ci\dlian woolens was unprecedentedly low, yet 
because of disagreement regarding prices and other matters by jobbers, 
manufacturers, and dealers, there has been much less production of 
woolen goods than last year. A similar condition is true in regard to 
the cotton industry. More spindles were idle in the first five months 
of 1919 than during the corresponding period for 1918. The produc- 
tion of boots and shoes for the first three months of 1919 was about 60 
per cent below the production for the last three months of 1918. The 
output of civiHan men's shoes fell off at least 25 per cent, and of 
women's shoes still more. When housing is considered it is also found 
that the industries whose activity is a prerequisite to building, such as 
brick making, lime, cement, and lumber production remained relatively 
inactive or tied up with strikes and labor disputes until late in the spring. 
It has been estimated that the United States was short a milUon homes 
at the end of the war. WTien railroad traffic is studied, when the coal 
situation is examined, and the iron and steel output investigated, sim- 
ilar results are found. 

The increase in prices from July, 1914, to June, 1919, for all com- 
modities taken together, is estimated at 107 per cent. Food, constitut- 
ing from 35 to 45 per cent of the total expenditure of typical wage-earn- 
ing families, increased in price HI per cent, while that of cloths -and 
clothing, about 15 to 20 per cent of the expenditure of the average wage- 
earning family, increased 150 per cent. Rehable figures showing the 
average increase in rents, 9 to 15 per cent of the expenditure, are not 
available. Fuel and light, amounting to approximately 3§ to 7 per 
cent of family expenditure, show an increase of 80 per cent, and house 
furnishings, amounting to approximately 5 to 7 per cent of the expendi- 
ture, increased 131 per cent. 

Increases in the prices of goods are relatively meaningless unless taken 
in connection with increase in incomes. Just how generally increase in 



1919] PROBLEM OF THE HIGH COST OF LIVING 545 

wages has kept pace with increased cost of li\ing is not known. Studies 
lately completed by the Bureau of Labor Statistics will soon be avail- 
able, but even then knowledge is lacking for earlier years. It must be 
remembered the only complaints of the high cost of living which have 
justification are those which are based upon inabihty of the present 
income to maintain previous or reasonable standards of living at present 
prices. The only well-founded complaints are those that mean that 
increase of income has not kept pace with increased cost of living, and 
that there is therefore an enforced reduction in standards of living. 

In pre-war times every dollar finding its way to the market was sup- 
posedly the counterpart of some commodity also appearing in the 
market. Money expended for the purchase of food and clothing and 
for the payment of rentals was assumed to have been earned by some 
productive contribution to the general supply of commodities. With 
war and its non-productive activities funds appeared that imphed no 
corresponding contribution to the market suppHes of goods. With a 
decreased quantity of goods and an increased price, larger expenditures 
were demanded. Increased credit and increased circulating medium 
followed. 

The only way to overcome this inflation of the currency is by in- 
creased production to create such a volume of commodities and wealth 
that the balance between physical goods and circulating medium may 
be normal. 

The increased cost in clothing and housing is easy to understand 
because added to this effect of the inflation of the currency is inade- 
quate supply and curtailed production. But this does not explain the 
cost of food, since the food seems adequate. Nor are present food 
prices to be accounted for largely on the basis of heavy exports, since 
these have declined rather than increased. There is an increase in the 
amount of goods in cold storage. A partial explanation why food prices 
are relatively high, in comparison with prices of chemicals, metals, 
lumber, and certain other goods whose supply is relatively small, may be 
due to a concentration of purchasing power upon food. There seems a 
tendency toward a demand for the necessities of life in the form of 
finished goods and the producers and purveyors of food can demand 
abnormally high prices regardless of the relative plenrifulness of their 
goods. That is, the demand for such goods has increased out of pro- 
portion to the demand for other goods. This gives an opportunity for 
profiteering and for wasteful distribution. There apparently has been 



546 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [December 

an actual increase of middlemen. Yet we must remember that while 
to produce a very large crop and sell it at abnormally high prices is 
profiteering, it is after all a kind of profiteering that deserves unstinted 
praise in comparison with that other species which deliberately reduces 
output and charges extortionate prices that may more than make up to 
the producer for the portion of products withheld, or the hoarded goods 
condemned to spoil or be lost. 

There is also unconscious profiteering. To take it for granted that 
increased wages, rents, or profits are permitted, whenever conditions 
permit an increase, whether or not the service rendered be increased or 
reduced, is one kind of profiteering. While increased money income for 
a given amount of service does not constitute profiteering unless the 
new money income will purchase more goods at the new price level, 
increased purchasing power with reduced service is the very essence 
of profiteering, and always means the deprivation of others. 

Diminished production of raw material will mean lowered standards 
of living whether prices rise or fall. Prices of finished commodities, 
consumption goods so-called, risen to an extent out of proportion to the 
rise in raw materials and perhaps to wages, means that profits are 
abnormally high. 

To attempt an immediate large reduction in prices of finished goods, 
while prices of raw materials continued to rise, would be dangerous in 
that it would tend to reduce production. Instead there should be elim- 
ination of waste, repression of profiteering and the stimulation of 
production. 

The only safe and practical method of effecting a readjustment now is 
by the practice of genuine economy, by increased production of the 
things society needs, by curtailment in the production and consumption 
of those luxuries which larger money incomes have falsely led us to 
believe that we could afford. 

There must be more information at hand. During the war agencies 
directed and coordinated productive forces, showing the needs of the 
nation and encouraging production to meet those needs. One now 
looks with dismay upon the general flood of niisinformation, half com- 
plete information, and undiluted ignorance which unavoidably pervades 
the land regarding our current economic situation in general. Lack of 
information gives rise to the major portion of industrial uncertainties, 
hesitation, misunderstanding, and conflict which interfere with the real- 
ization of the highest economic welfare of the people. For example, the 



1919] PROBLEM OF THE HIGH COSX OF LIVING 547 

failure to produce seventy-five million pairs of footwear which might 
have been produced during the first three months of 1919, or the reduc- 
tion of .over a hundred million tons in the production of coal up to July, 
1919, has meant a national loss of many billions of dollars worth of 
wealth. 

Standard marketing systems should be worked out. The cost of 
living varies not only between city and city, but between different dis- 
tricts without real reason. 

National needs may be estimated. In respect of wage earners' 
famiUes, for example, the Bureau of Labor Statistics and several other 
research organizations have made numerous studies of the habitual rate 
of consumption of families varying in size, income, occupation, and 
nationahty. Unless there is to be reduction in standards of living the 
lessening of production below what is required to supply normal needs 
might be avoided by a campaign of education if the right infoiTnation 
were available. If, on the other hand, certain improvement in standards 
of living were desired, the increase in production necessary to meet the 
requirements of such improvement might be made known and encouraged. 

Many of these adjustments must be made by the community at large, 
not by the individual. The part of the individual is to avoid profiteer- 
ing of any kind, to study expenditure with care, to practise careful 
economy, to inform himself as completely as possible of conditions. 
The Savings Division of the Treasury Department says: 

The reaction from the careful use of money during war time is widespread 
and disturbing. Retailers are securing goods from jobbers without arguing 
about prices, if they can only be assured of immediate delivery. They know 
their customers wiU scramble for the goods, regardless of cost. Thus, with 
an abnormal demand and a limited output, nothing else can be e.xpected than 
high prices. It is a natural though deplorable, consequence that profiteers 
abound. 

When spenders are free and easy, prices go up with equal ease. Those who 
hold their "easy" money too cheaply make hard buying for those who must 
part sparingly with their limited funds and, by the same token, those who 
demand luxuries without accounting the cost may expect to pay more for 
necessaries. 

The people must return to the policy of careful buying and regular saving 
if they wish to help the situation. 



The quickest way to bring prices down is to stop buying while they 
are up. 



548 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [December 

THE SEVEN WEEKS EXPERIMENT BY THE COMMITTEE 
ON HOUSEHOLD ASSISTANTS' 

A tremendous reponse by applicants from four paid advertisements 
in the journals, one hundred and fifty visits to headquarters from em- 
ployers, many registered applications for the Home Assistant for next 
fall, unsolicited requests for interviews from half a dozen magazines, 
universal regrets from employers and assistants at the announcement 
of the close of headquarters, and the voluntary offer from several em- 
ployers for financial support of the work — these are the incidents in 
the seven weeks life of the experimental effort to establish the System 
of the Eight Hour Day Home Assistant which have justified the venture 
and proved the need of a permanent organization. 

The Committee on Home Assistants came into being through the 
instigation of the United States Employment Service, as a result of 
taking an invoice of applicants and employers in January, 1919. It 
was found that not only in every branch ofl!ice in New York City plac- 
ing domestic servants, but that in all such branches throughout the 
State, there was constantly a shortage of servants as compared to em- 
ployers amounting to from 200 to 300 per cent. In other words, if there 
were in one branch office during a certain week 60 calls from housewives, 
there would be only from 20 to 30 applicants for domestic work. 

Those in charge of the Women's Department felt that this was a 
crucial situation which must be faced at least, dealt with if possible. 
There was in the late fall and winter a great number of women out of 
employment — women turned out of munition factories who had, in 
their work histories, a background of domestic service. However, 
when they were offered domestic service, they coldly refused it, saying 
that they had become used to factory hours and would not go back to 
private homes for a fourteen-hour working day. 

It was clear from a study of this situation that housewives must from 
now on draw for their supply from two groups hitherto untouched for 
domestic employment — first, the same group now available for store, 
office, and factory work; second, women having their own homes and 
families who could work part of the day, but who are not able to con- 
form to the demands of business and industry. 

The United States Employment Service, of course, was not the agency 
to establish such a system with its definite requirements and standards. 
Therefore, a committee was gathered together whose members repre- 

' Information furnished by the Committee. 



1919] THE SEVEN WEEKS EXPERIMENT 549 

sented some of the important organizations for women in the city, 
with Mrs. Percy Jackson, representing the Consumers League, the 
Women's Municipal League, and the Women's City Club, as Chair- 
man. Emma Gunther of Teachers College, and Isabel Ely Lord of 
Pratt Institute were members of the committee, as well as representa- 
tives of the Young Women's Christian Association, the United States 
EmplojTnent Service, and others. 

This Committee decided at first to make whatever placements were 
possible through the United States Employment Service. A meeting 
of all the women examiners was held and the eight hour system fully 
explained to them. Each was urged to advertise the idea and to refer 
any interested girls or employers to one of the offices assigned as the 
Central Placement Bureau. Many interviews were held with ex- 
aminers. Some placements were reported. Publicity was successfully 
accomplished, and a good deal of interest was aroused not only in New 
York but in other parts of the State. But weeks went by without real 
accompUshment in getting employer and assistant together. 

The Committee members thought at first that one of the best ways 
to develop practical interest in the work of the eight hour day assist- 
ant would be to estabUsh Training Courses in Household Work. This 
effort was based on the belief that graduates of a school would be placed 
without question and that well equipped workers would prove the best 
advertisement of the system. With the cooperation of the Head of the 
Department of Night Schools of the City Board of Education, a course 
in household occupations was planned for the Washington Irving High 
School. The plan was good and the theory of the educational effort 
was probably sound, but there was one miscalculation. Girls are not 
organized and are hard to reach. Advertising in such places as Em- 
ployment Centers and Settlement Clubs proved of no avail. No one 
registered for the courses. This failure showed the Committee that to 
attempt to reach the assistant first and then to find employment for her 
was quite the wrong way about. It became clear that if the employer 
could be interested — a demand created — the supply would follow and 
desire for training would come as both employer and employee began to 
see the value of it. 

On the basis of two months experience, the Committee was able to 
appreciate certain fundamental facts about the problem of establishing 
the eight hour day system. It became very clear that it was a highly 
specialized problem; that placement of assistants was impossible in a 



550 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [December 

big general employment office, because of easy confusion with the place- 
ment of hour and day workers; that the personality of the people in 
charge was particularly important; that a supervisor experienced in the 
establishment of the eight hour day assistant is absolutely necessary for 
instruction of employers, for assisting them to plan schedules, and for 
following up of placements. 

Early in March, the United States Employment Service was obliged 
to retrench because Congress cut its appropriation. SpeciaHzed work 
in the Service became impossible, therefore, and the work of the Com- 
mittee would necessarily have been dropped except for private financial 
aid generously offered to carry through the two months experiment. 

Shortly after the first of April, headquarters were opened with a 
paid Executive Secretary, and a member of the committee in special 
supervision of the work. 

The principles embodied in the eight hour day system are regular 
assistants engaged to be exclusive employees for the housewives (prefer- 
ably working for no one else at the same time) and engaged to work 
quite as permanently as do any household employees. They give eight 
hours a day, six days a week. They eat and sleep at home. They agree 
to give extra service whenever required, for which they are always to 
receive extra pay. The wage is determined according to a sliding scale 
of efficiency and length of time in employment, and does and should 
compare favorably with that which obtains in factory, shop, and office. 
These assistants are engaged for regular specific duties, just as resi- 
dent maids are, but, during the eight hours they hold themselves ready 
to do whatever the circumstances of the particular day require. 

The purpose of the Committee was fourfold: to further in a general 
way the system itself; to determine what was the available supply of 
assistants; to determine how great was the demand of the employer; 
and to make that demand heard by the assistant. 

Two weeks of the seven were devoted to printing, advertising, and 
newspaper and magazine publicity. A folder outHning the fundamental 
principles of home assistants was distributed among hundreds of em- 
ployers. Contact was made with more than 150 employers, and all of 
these were interviewed. 

In order to supply one of these employers, an advertisement was put 
in the New York Sunday Times as follows : 

"A young business woman may secure three months vacation on coast 
of Maine if willing to help with the housework, eight hours a day, six 



1919] THE SEVEN WEEKS EXPERIMENT 551 

days a week, in exchange for room and board, traveling and incidental 
expenses paid, and $5 a week additional. Apply by letter only." 

In response to this advertisement there were received some 85 an- 
swers. Other advertisements followed, for New York City, for the 
eight hour home assistant and for the four hour assistant to cover the 
dinner hour, bringing six and seven responses respectively. Every 
letter was answered from headquarters, giving an appointment for a 
personal interview, nearly all applicants met their appointments, and 
about 50 registered. This number has been increased as a result of 
pubUcity to a total of 75. 

From the very start the special character of this placement work was 
demonstrated by the quahty of the applicants and the spirit of the 
employers. Applicants for siunmer places described themselves as 
teachers, social workers, business women, statisticians, college girls, 
buyers. All professed an interest in housework and a desire to make 
good at it. Employers were, on the whole, responsive and enthusiastic 
and recognized their responsibility toward the system and its standards. 
Both in grade of intelUgence and in cooperative spirit employers 
and assistants encountered in this placement work proved superior 
to the usual personalities who come together in an employment 
exchange. 

The employers might be divided into several classifications: 

1. The women from the suburbs who are willing to give up their 
resident maids and introduce this system as soon as they understand it. 

2. The women in New York who have rather large estabhshments 
and cannot make the adjustment quickly. They have come for general 
lectures, have made out schedules covering the particular duties in 
their homes and have registered for assistants later. 

3. The women whose households are without service and who under 
pressure of necessity rush into headquarters to beg for assistants — tliis 
last group were the most numerous. 

The groups of apphcants might be classified as: 

1. The married, trained, and heretofore, resident domestic who seems 
to be the best adapted at present for the home assistant, principally 
because of her long years of training. 

2. The high school graduate interested to take up this profession 
instead of going into business. 

3. The young business woman who really likes housework and finds 
she can be a part time home assistant while studying. 



552 THE jotmNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [December 

4. The married woman who has her own home and understands the 
problem of household work. One or two of this type have even had 
their own maids. One or two have grown children and wish to become 
wage earners. 

5. The business women and school teachers who can get the benefit 
of a change of occupation by becoming home assistants during the sum- 
mer months at the seashore and in the mountains. 

The procedure of handling business at headquarters was as follows: 
Employers are asked to come to headquarters for an informal talk on 
the principle of the system and are given an opportunity to present any 
and all objections or difficulties occurring to them. Schedules are then 
made out or the supervisor goes to the home and looks over the situa- 
tion in order to advise how many home assistants the house requires, 
the live point contract is agreed to, and interviews are arranged with the 
employee, either at her home or at the office under the direction of the 
supervisor. After the employee is engaged, the employer is requested 
to report to headquarters within a few days so that any differences 
which may have arisen may be adjusted if possible. 

The assistant receives the same instruction and the five point con- 
tract, and is required likewise to report in case of dissatisfaction, when 
the matter is handled entirely by headquarters. 

Both employers and assistants are individually told that headquarters 
exists for the permanent establishment of the system, which involves 
continuous relationship, and bOth are urged to rely upon it and resort 
to it for any adjustment necessary. The headquarters, the assistant, 
and the employer form a triangle in which each side is necessary for the 
others. A typical illustration of the operation of this principle is in 
the case of Mrs. W. and her new assistant, Mrs. Van B. A difficulty 
arose over the question of the employee's dinner which she did not take 
at the employer's house and when asked to go out for it she refused 
because she did not wish to interrupt her work. Mrs. W. called head- 
quarters the first day, saying that this situation troubled her. "I feel 
that it is very inhuman not to give Mrs. Van B. her dinner; I should 
like to give it to her. But since I have undertaken this system, I pro- 
pose to live up to it as you request. Won't you explain this to Mrs. 
Van B., so that she will bring her dinner with her or take time to go 
out and get it." This matter was easily arranged by an interview 
between the supervisor and Mrs. Van B . at the latter's house the evening 
of the same day. The assistant was gratified by the trouble taken and 



1919] HOME TIES OVER SEAS 553 

said, "Understanding your rules I shouldn't dream of taking dinner 
there. I shall arrange to provide it, as you recommend." 

We could tell many interesting instances of the dovetailing of the 
employer's need and the assistant's possibihties. 

Two of the special difficulties which were brought out in our place- 
ment experience were: the arranging for the Sunday shift, which many 
of those who have tried the experiment feel should be a separate one; 
and the resisting of the pressure to employ home assistants in homes 
where resident maids are still used. 

The five weeks effort proved beyond the shadow of a doubt the reli- 
ability and responsibility of the home assistant. The task which lies 
before us is that of training her and making her efficient. The experi- 
ment has accompUshed its fourfold purpose. An enormous demand on 
the part of employers has been established; a new source of applicants 
has been tapped; public interest has been demonstrated and, most im- 
portant of all, it has been clearly proved that the eight hour day home 
assistant is a solution of the domestic problem and capable of adjust- 
ment to many different homes, while a definite method of establishing 
this system has now been satisfactorily worked out. 

The headquarters are now closed and the experiment is at an end for 
lack of funds. 



HOME TIES OVER SEAS 

Home followed the American army, under the banner of the American 
Red Cross and other welfare organizations, from the states, across an 
ocean, and through war-ridden France, even into the land of the Kaiser. 
So far as was possible reminders of home were so placed that the American 
soldier, though separated by thousands of miles, would be encouraged 
to be true to the home, to the cause for which he was fighting, to the 
trust of loved ones, to himself. 

These reminders of home were simple ones — a Red Cross canteen at 
the front and a girl dealing out cocoa; or again, at a line of communica- 
tion, women, like the mothers of America, making doughnuts in a Red 
Cross kitchen where the boys could watch them; perhaps in the city, 



554 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [December 

the prospect of a rapid return to the front creating an urging inclination 
to let down, to have a last fling, a Red Cross hotel a la Americaine. 
And so along the paths where a Yank might wander was the Red Cross 
with a bit of America to strengthen home-ties, forming moral bonds. 
Every possble link to bind the soldier to his home was made by the 
Red Cross. The wealth of a nation is not judged by its agricultural 
products alone, its wealth, or its commerce, but is dependent upon the 
morals of the people, which have as their foundation the home. And 
through the agencies of the Red Cross, Home was carried overseas and 
the boys have returned with a deeper appreciation of its sacredness 
and value. 



A PRAYER FOR A LITTLE HOME 

God send us a little home, 

To come back to, when we roam. 

Low walls, and fluted tiles, 
Wide windows, a view for miles. 

Red firelight and deep chairs, 
Small white beds upstairs — 

Great talk in little nooks. 
Dim colors, rows of books. 

One picture on each wall. 
Not many things at all. 

God send us a little ground, 
Tall trees standing round. 

Homely flowers in brown sod. 
Overhead, thy stars, O God. 

God bless, when winds blow. 
Our home, and all we know. 

Florence Bone in the London Spectator. 
Quoted in Youth's Companion. 



EDITORIAL 

The Journal of Home Economics, as it wishes a Merry Christmas 

to its readers, bespeaks their continued cooperation for another year. 
The Journal desires to bring to its readers even more practical help 
than it has been able to offer in the past. It desires to keep them 
informed of events in the home economics world, to make suggestions 
that can be carried over into the practical work of the home, to offer 
help for the teacher and the extension worker, both in keeping them 
informed, giving the results of investigation, and helping formulate 
methods of work. It can only carry out these plans if all those inter- 
ested in these problems will contribute of their experience and their 
knowledge. The Journal acknowledges gratefully the time and 
thought that many busy women and men are willing to put into book 
reviews, into news notes, into articles, and it asks that this work may 
be shared by many more. It is no less true of magazines than of 
persons that we are most interested in those for whom we work. The 
Journal wants more subscribers; it hopes that many of its readers will 
send it as a Christmas gift to friends who would appreciate and enjoy 
it, but it wants most of all such help as will make it indispensable to 
teachers of home economics, to extension workers, to women in the 
home. 

Are We Shirking? In the early days of home economics domestic 
science and domestic service seemed to many people interchangeable 
terms. Then it was perhaps excusable that an organization like the 
American Home Economics Association, professing to deal with home 
problems, should make little attempt to aid in the solution of the 
problem of domestic employment. Now that home economics has been 
established in school and college, now that it is generally recognized as 
worthy of a place in education by the side of science or economics, there 
seems no fear that any practical work the Association might undertake 
would lower the standing of the subject. 

The domestic service situation has been studied by the Young Wom- 
en's Christian Association; the United States Employment Service has 
felt it worth while to conduct an experiment in its adjustment; similar 

555 



556 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [December 

experiments have been undertaken by individuals in Boston and other 
cities; the organization of domestic workers has been undertaken by 
Lady Londonderry in England; similar organization is planned in sev- 
eral places in this country; yet the -American Home Economics Asso- 
ciation, whose work is distinctly for the home, has not even a committee 
on household employment. Have we been so concerned with problems 
of teaching that we have hesitated to deal with this real problem of the 
home? Would not our teaching be quite as effective if it functioned 
more directly in the home? 

Mrs. Richards many years ago established in Boston a Household 
Aid Association on much the same lines as the present experiment in 
New York. Miss Henrietta Roelofs, of the Young Women's Christian 
Association, in 1915 made a careful study of the question. Should not 
we, building on these foundations and on the other work that has been 
done, offer some real contribution to the solution of the question? We 
cannot excuse our neglect on the ground that such service affects only 
five per cent of the homes, for, as Miss Roelofs has reminded us, the 
largest group of women who are employed are either working in homes 
or in occupations related to it. 

If there is to be organization should not we aid in directing it? Is it 
not time that we helped either to adjust domestic service to the home 
or else showed the home how to be independent of it? 

Proposed Legislation. The Council of the American Home Eco- 
nomics Association at its recent meeting in Chicago endorsed the fol- 
lowing two biUs that were introduced into Congress at the last session. 
It will be remembered that the Smoot bill had been previously endorsed. 

The so called Barkley bill (H. R. 2855) was introduced into the House 
by Mr. Barkley of Kentucky, and is to "prevent the misbranding of 
merchandise." Consumers, honest merchants and manufacturers are 
suffering from numerous misstatements and fraudulent brands on com- 
modities. Heretofore there has been no adequate protection against 
it. Under this bill misbranding becomes a crime and punishable by 
fine, imprisonment, or both. It covers imitations, false or misleading 
marks on goods, or misrepresentations in advertisements. Misstate- 
ments in textiles, foods, leather, and other commodities have been the 
cause of much wasteful buying by consumers, and even intelligent 
buyers strenuously object to being thus misled. Several labeling bills 
have appeared in Congress from time to time, but they have not been 



1919] THE QUESTION BOX 557 

considered workable, for they require too much complex data from the 
manufacturer and contain within them the possibility of fraud. The 
present measure is on the order of the British Marks Act which for more 
than thirty years has worked successfully in Great Britain and her 
Colonies. 

A second bill, called the Tinkham bill (H. R. 7014), asked for the crea- 
tion of a Bureau of Housing and Living Conditions in the Department 
of Labor. This Bureau would be charged with investigating the hous- 
ing and living conditions of the industrial population of the United 
States. It pro\ades for research and experimentation by the Bureau 
with a \-iew to the provision and pubhcation of information to make 
economically practicable the elimination of slums, the improvement of 
living conditions, the reduction of the cost of construction of dwelUngs. 
It is hoped that it also may assist communities in making available to 
the greatest extent all existing housing faciUties, and that it may serve 
as a clearing house of information on housing and living conditions. 

The American Home Economics Association was, by invitation, repre- 
sented at a hearing on this bill on November 12. A later hearing will 
probably be given in December or January. 

Another bill that deserves attention is the Longworth bill for the 
protection and development of the dye industry of this country. It 
provides for a tariff, both ad valorem and specific, on dyes, and for a 
system of Hcensing especially appUcable to dyes that cannot yet be 
produced in this country, placing the power of licensing in the hands of 
the United States Tariff Commission. 



THE QUESTION BOX 

Question: What causes fresh milk to curdle when boiled with sugar 
in making fudge candy or icing? 

Answer: Chocolate contains an appreciable amount of tartaric add 
— from 4.38 per cent to 5.82 per cent.' When a fairly large amount of 
chocolate is used with a given amount of milk, it not infrequently 
happens that the milk curdles, even though the milk is quite fresh. In 
order to avoid this either use less chocolate or add to the fudge a small 
amount of cooking soda, not over | of a teaspoonful to 2 ounces of 
chocolate. 

' Leffmann and Beam: Select Methods of Food Analysis, p. 277, 1901. 



558 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [December 

COMMENT AND DISCUSSION 

Attention of College Teachers. I am wondering if it is not time 
that some one called the attention of college teachers to the fact that 
they sometimes overstep the bounds of courtesy in giving to their stu- 
dents problems which involve the time of instructors in other colleges 
and universities. For example: I am at present in receipt of a letter 
asking for information in regard to practice houses. It would take at 
least an hour to answer the letter as fully as it should be answered. I 
regret that I have not so much time to give to one student in another 
institution. I should question whether I were justified in spending so 
much time upon a single student, perhaps, even in my own institution. 

When other instructors ask for information of this kind I have always 
made it a practice to answer as promptly and fully as possible, for I 
think that it is necessary to our general growth. I wish there were time 
to respond to the other demand but it seems to me impossible. 

Mabel T. Wellman, 
Indiana University. 

Fat Absorption. I wonder if you would think it worth while to 
point out the probable cause of the difference in fat absorption in the 
experiments carried out by Dr. Morgan compared with those of Dr. 
Blunt. On page 398 of the September Journal, a comparison of the 
recipes used would indicate a marked difference in the stiffness of the 
two doughs. We find that this factor is an important one in influencing 
the amount of fat absorbed. 

The report of this work moves me again to strongly emphasize the 
need of standard weights for the usual household measures. Three 
tablespoons of egg weighing 1 1 grams is surprising, unless the egg was 
well beaten.i Qn the other hand, 148 grams for 1| cups of flour is 
excessive. 

This term, I hope to carry out with some doughs and batters, similar 
experiments to those in which potatoes were used as a food to be fried. 
I was surprised by the fact that the lower temperature was so much 
more satisfactory for frying the potatoes, both for the product and the 
effect on the heated fat. The doughs will be a much more severe test, 
of course, and probably there will be more difficulty in cooking the food 
properly at a lower temperature. 

Elizabeth Sprague, 
University of Kansas. 

' It was understood by the JotJRN.\L that this weight leferred to the beaten egg. 



BOOKS AND LITERATURE 

BOOKS RECEIVED 

Addresses and Proceedings of the Fifty-Sixth Annual Meeting, N. E. A., Washington, D. C: 
N. E. A., 1918, pp. 802. 

American Marriage Laws in Their Social Aspects. Fred S. Hall and Elizabeth W. Brooke. 
New York: The Russell Sage Foundation, 1919, pp. 132. 

A Home Account Book. The Pennsylvania State College School of Agriculture and Experi- 
ment Station, State CoUege, Pa., 1919, $0.55. 

The Home and Country Readers. Books I, II, III, IV. Mary A. Laselle. Boston: Little, 
Brown & Co., 1918, pp. 266, 282, 347, and 366. $0.65 each. 

A Manual of Canning and Preserving. Theodora M. CarreU. New York: E. P. Dutton 
& Co., 1919, pp. 101. $1.50. 

One Hundred Points in Food Economy. Grant Ramsay, F. R. E. S., Principal of the Insti- 
tute of Hygiene. Preface by W. D. Halliburton, Professor of Physiology, King's Col- 
lege, London. London: G. BeU & Sons, Ltd., Ed. 5, 1918, 1/ net. Written at the 
request of the Director-General of Food Economy (Ministry of Foods). 

Proceedings of the Thirty-Second Annual Convention of the Association of American Agricul- 
tural Colleges and Experiment Stations. Edited by J. H. Hills, Secretary, for the Execu- 
tive Committee of the .Association. Burlington, Vt.: Free Press Printing Company, 
1919, pp. 272. 

The Pudding Lady's Recipe Book with Practical Hints. Florence Petty, M. C. A., Qualified 
Sanitary Inspector. 25th thousand. London: G. Bell & Sons, Ltd., 1918, pp. 120. 
1/3 net; cloth binding, 2/ net. 

Serjting, Handicraft for Girls. Idabelle McGlauflin. Peoria: The Manual Arts Press, 1918 
(revised), pp. 116. $1.35. 

What We Eat and What Happens to It. Philip B. Hawk, Ph.D. New York: Harper & 
Brothers, 1919, pp. 232. $1.35. 

Yearbook of the Department of Agricidture, 1918. Washington: Government Printing Office, 
1919, pp. 760. 

PAMPHLETS RECEIVED 

Issued by the U. S. Department of Labor, Children's Bureau: 

Administration of Child Labor Laws. Part 3, Employment-Certificate System in Maryland. 
Francis H. Bird and EUa A. Merritt. Industrial Series No. 2, Part 3, Bureau Publica- 
tion No. 41, 1919. 

Maternity and Infant Care in Two Rural Counties in Wisconsin. Florence B. Sherbon, M.D. 
and Elizabeth Moore. Rural Child Welfare Series No. 4, Bureau Publication No. 46, 
1919. 

Standards of Child Welfare. A Report of the Children's Bureau Conferences, May and June, 
1919. Conference Series No. 1, Bureau Publication No. 60, 1919. 

559 



560 THE jOTXRNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [December 

Issued by the U. S. Public Health Service: 
Keep Well Series: No. 1, The Road to Health; No. 2, Adenoids; What They Are, How to 

Recognize Them, What to Do for Them. 
Keep Well (wall card) Poster Series No. 8. 

Mental Hygiene Leaflet for Teachers. Reprint No. 518 from the Public Health Reports. 
The New Science of Industrial Physiology. Frederic S. Lee, Ph.D., LL.D. Reprint No. 513 

from the Public Health Reports. 
Program of the Public Health Service. Supplement No. 35 to the Public Health Reports. 
Public Health Service Program for Nation-Wide Control of Venereal Diseases. C. C. Pierce. 

Reprint No. 524 from the Public Health Reports. 
War Activities of the United States Public Health Service. Benjamin S. Warren and Charies 

F. Bolduan. Reprint No. 531 from the Public Health Reports. 

Issued by the Department of the Interior, Bureau of Education : 
The American Spirit in Education. C. R. Mann. Bulletin, 1919, No. 30. 
A Half-Time Mill School. H. W. Foght. BuUetin, 1919, No. 6. 
Industrial Art: A National Asset. A Series of Graphic Charts. 

Issued by the New York State College of Agriculture at Cornell: 
The Cornell Reading Course for the Home: Rural Life Series, Lesson 120, Civic Duties of Women, 
Blanche Evans Hazard. Food Series, Lesson 122, How to Use the Apple Crop, Lucile 
Brewer; Lesson 121, Sugar-Saving Desserts and Confections. Thrift Series, Lesson 
123, A Program of Thrift for N. Y. State, Flora Rose and Martha Van Rensselaer; 
Lesson 124, Making a Budget, Flora Rose and Martha Van Rensselaer; Lesson 125, 
Self Study Outlines for Promoting Thrift; Lesson 126, How to Keep a Cash Account, 
Flora Rose and Lolita E. Healey; Lesson 127, What to Spend for Food. 

Issued by the North Dakota Agricultural College: 
Child Feeding. Circular No. 29, June, 1919. 
Pood for the Family. Circular No. 31, June, 1919. 
Helps for the Home Dressmaker. Inez Willson and Amy Campbell. Circular No. 26, June, 

1919. 
Home Nursing. Inez Hobart and Adah Lewis. Circular No. 30, June, 1919. 
The Rural Hoi Lunch. Julia O. Newton and May C. McDonald. Reprint of Agricultual 

Extension Bulletin No. 4. Circular No. 27, June, 1919. 
Selection and Care of Textiles. Inez S. Willson and Ada G. Meadows. Circular No. 25, 

June, 1919. 

Issued by the publishers listed: 
Applied Arts and Education. George S. Hellman. Bulletin No. 93, A. E. F. University, 

Beaune, Cote d'Or, France. 
Child Welfare. Elva L. Bascom, B.L.S., and Dorothy Reed MendenhaU, M.D., American 

Medical Association. 
Children's Year in California. California State Board of Health Monthly Bulletin, June, 

1919. 
Income and Infant Mortality. Julia C. Lathrop. Reprinted from American Journal of 

Public Health, Vol. DC, No. 4, April, 1919, pp. 270-274. 
Influence of High Temperatures and Dilute Alkalies on the Antineuriiic Properties of Foods. 

Amy L. Daniels and Nelle I. McClurg. Reprinted from the Jour, of Biol. Chem., 

Vol. XXXVII, No. 1, Jan., 1919. 



1919] BIBLIOGRAPHY OF HOME ECONOMICS 56 1 

Primer for Foreign-Speaking Women. Part II. Commission of Immigration and Housing 

of California, 1918. 
The Rockefeller Foundation Review for 191S. George E. Vincent. 
What is Malnutrition? Lydia Roberts. Children's Year Follow-up Series No. 1, Bureau 

Publication No. 59, U. S. Department of Labor, Children's Bureau. 

BIBLIOGRAPHY OF HOME ECONOMICS 
PERIODICAL LITERATURE 

Nutrition 

Disgestibility of Bacon. Katherine Blunt and Margaret C. Mallon, Jour. Biol. Chem., 
38 (1919), pp. 43-48. 

Biological Analysis of Pellagra-Producing Diets. E. V. McCollum, N. Simmonds, and 
H. T. Parsons, Jour. Biol. Chem., 38 (1919), pp. 113-146. 

Is Lactalbumin a Complete Protein for Growth? A. D. Emmett and G. O. Luros, Jour. 
Biol. Chem., 38 (1919), pp. 147-160. 

The Effect of Hydrogen Ion Concentration on the Liquefaction of Gelatin. H. E. Patten 
and A. J. Johnson, Jour. Biol. Chem., 38 (1919), pp. 179-190. 

The Zinc Content of Some Food Products. V. Birchner, Jour. Bio!. Chem., 38 (1919), 
pp. 191-204. 

Zinc in Oysters. R. S. Hiltner and H. J. Wichman, Jour. Biol. Chem., 38 (1919), pp. 
205-222. 

The Nutritive Value of Yeast Protein. T. B. Osborne and L. B. Mendel, Jour. Biol. 
Chem., 38 (1919), pp. 223-228. 

The Oxidase, Peroxidase, Catalase, and Amylase of Fresh and Dehydrated Vegetables. 
K. G. Folk, G. McGuire, and E. Blount, Jour. Biol. Chem., 38 (1919), pp. 229-244. 

The Stability of Lactalbumin Toward Heat. A. D. Emmett and G. O. Luros, Jour. Biol. 
Chem., 38 (1919), 255-266. 

The Effect of Age, Heat and Reaction in Antiscorbutic Foods. A. F. Hart and L. J. Unger, 
Jour. Biol. Chem., 38 (1919), pp. 293-304. 

Effect of Heat on the Antiscorbutic Properties of Some Milk Products. E. B. Hart, H. 
Steenbock, and D. W. Smith, Jour. Biol. Chem., 38 (1919). pp. 305-324. 

A Well-selected Diet is One of the Keynotes to Health. Lucy H. Gillett, The Common 
Health, May-June, 1919. 

The Milk Fairies. Jennie Van Heyson McCrillis. The Common Health, March-April, 
1919. 

A Few Simple Facts about Digestion. Alzira W. Sandwall, The Common Health, March- 
April, 1919. 

House Construction and Furnishings 

A House with Garden Designed as a Beautiful Setting. Touchstone, May, 1919. 

The Chimney as an Architectural Factor. H. D. Eberlein, House and Garden, May, 1919. 

Facts about Paints, Stains, and Varnishes. F. F. Carter, House and Garden, May, 1919. 

Old Models for New Furniture. Walter A. Dyer, Touclislone, May, 1919. 

The Decoration of Summer Camps. Agnes F. Wright, House and Garden, May, 1919. 

Furnishing your Summer Home. Gertrude Campbell, House and Garden, May, 1919. 

The Framing of your Books. M. H. Bridges, House and Garden, May, 1919. 



562 THE jouRXAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [December 

The Accommodating Day-bed. Mary H. Northend, Bouse and Garden, May, 1919. 

The Fundamentals of Interior Decoration. Harmony of Color. Laura Shelby Lee, Bouse 
Beautiful, May, 1919. 

The Garden's Influence Indoors. Jessie M. Breese, Country Life, May, 1919. 

A Different Sort of Farmhouse. Farm Jmirnal, July, 1919, p. 10, figs. 2. Plans and 
description of a house which is built on lines suggested by experience in amry barrack con- 
struction. 

A Country Neighborhood Park. Farm Journal, July, 1919, p. 39, figs. 2. Suitable for 
rural regions, with rest room and tables, of simple construction, for luncheons. 

Make Your Own Tent. Farm Journal, July, 1919, p. 45. Diagrams and directions de- 
signed especially to help boys and girls. 

Clothing and Textiles 

The Gassing of Cotton Yarns. Raffaele Sansome, TexMe World Jour., April 19, 1919. 

Slashing of Cotton Warps. E. H. Hinckley, TextUe World Jour., May 10, 1919. 

Revival of Laces. Present Day Prices of Hand-made Laces. Dry Goods Economist, 
May 3, 1919. 

Artificial Silk Prices. Textile World Jour., May 3, 1919. 

Prices on Rugs. Carpets are Advancing. Dry Goods Economist, May 10, 1919. 

Organization of Merchants to Compete with Mail Order Houses. Merchants Trade 
Journal, May, 1919. 

Modem Gowns Based upon Mediaeval Tapestry, and upon the Dress of the Crusaders. 
Designed and drawn by Ruth Humie, School Arts Magazine, May, 1919. 

Embroideries for Summer Frocks. Le Costume Royal, May, 1919. 

" Old Silhouettes for New." Ethel Traphagen, Vogue, May 15, 1919. 

Uniform Graduating Dresses. Janet G. Cation and Rosamond C. Cook, Indus. Arts, 
Mar., 1919. 

How Cretonnes and Linens are Printed. Decorative Furnisher, May, 1919. 

A Collection of Flower Baskets. Grace Wood, House and Garden, May, 1919. 

High Wages Bring Opportunity to American Printed Fabrics. Good Furniture, May, 1919. 

Costume Designing as an Essential to Normal Art Course. Evelyn Hansen, Indus. 
Arts, June, 1919. 

Relation of Costume Design to Fine .\rts. Pearl Salter, Indus. Arts, July and Aug., 1919. 

MISCELLANEOUS 

Scientific Hospital Feeding. Clara G. Pett, Mod. Hasp., June, 1919. 

Department of Dietetics in the University of Minnesota Hospital. Gertrude Thomas, 
Mod. Bosp., Mar., 1919. 

Opportunities of the Day Nursery. Nellie M. Sargent, Mod. Bosp., July, 1919. Points 
out opportunities for dietetic instruction to families. 

Dishwashing in Relation to the Transfer of Disease. Rena S. Eckman, Mod. Bosp., 
Mar., 1919. 

The Value of the Peanut Proteins. Carl O. Johns, Amer. Food Jour., Apr., 1919. 

Vegetables and Salads. Bertha E. Shapleigh, Teachers College Rec, May, 1919. 

The High School Lunch Room. Victor Randel, Indtis. Arts, Aug., 1919. 

Standards in Parenthood. Amey E. Watson, Survey, July 26, 1919. 

Cost-of-Living Investigation in the United States. Edith P. Nash, Mod. Bosp., July, 
1919. 

Standardizing the Hamper. Fred P. Downing, Amer. Food Jour., July, 1919. 



NEWS FROM THE FIELD 



The Second Annual Meeting of the 
American Dietetic Association was held 
in Cincinnati, September 8 to 12, with a 
large attendance and an unusual number of 
guests. Lulu Graves, president of the asso- 
ciation, responded to the welcome of Mayor 
Galvin, and was followed by Edna White, 
president of the American Home Economics 
Association, who gave a report of the meet- 
ing of that Association at Blue Ridge. 

Miss Perry, formerly dietitian at Michael 
Reese Hospital, Chicago, gave a vivid 
account of her experience in France, con- 
trasting the varied conditions under which 
it was necessary for dietitians to work, 
some having modem equipment, others 
practically nothing. It was necessary for 
the dietitian to make her own place, since 
there had been no dietitians in other wars 
and neither our opponents nor our allies 
had dietitians. A paper by Katherine 
Fisher, of Teachers College, on the Courses 
of Instruction for the Training of Dietitians, 
read by Miss Wells, of Drexel, showed the 
need of a good preparatory education, a 
proper balance between practical and theo- 
retical training, the advantage of practical 
experience in the home, and of a knowledge 
of economics. Mabel Garaghty, secretary 
of the association, in her paper on the 
training of pupil dietitians, plead for real 
training instead of the use of the student 
dietitian to do clerical work or other 
duties that would not help her when she 
must assume entire charge of the dietary 
department. 

Whether the dietitian should buy food- 
stuffs or not was earnestly debated at differ- 
ent sessions with arguments pro and con. 
Several hospital superintendents were in 
favor of the plan. One doctor said: "My 
idea of a dietitian is that she should have 
complete control of all feeding in the hos- 
pital. Next to the chief of staff the dieti- 
tian's position is the most important." 



Standardization of curricula for nurses' 
training schools was discussed by Rush 
Shelow of Norwood, Ohio, and an outline 
for nurses' training in dietetics was pre- 
sented. Emma Winslow, Charity Organ- 
ization Association, New York, spoke of 
the training of social service dietitians, 
emphasizing the fact that her work is 
largely on the preventive side. Mrs. Mary 
Schapiro, whose paper on Jewish Dietary 
Problems was published in the February 
number of the Journal, in her paper oa 
Social Service Dietetics as applied to work 
with Jewish families, gave a review of the 
effect of industrial revolution upon the 
home and women, especially upon un- 
trained women. She showed that, while 
the dietary laws of the Jewish religion were 
primarily for the sanitary and hygienic 
good of the people, when the poor try to 
live by them an unbalanced ration results. 
The Jewish social service dietitian is needed 
to give training in the art of selecting food. 

Blanche Joseph explained her social 
service work in Chicago and her course for 
student dietitians. Miss Eichelberger of 
Louisville, Kentucky, described her plan 
for furnishing a cottage and conducting 
nutrition classes there, and Miss Buell of 
Wisconsin University outlined the efforts of 
the department to get into closer cooper- 
ation with the University medical school. 

Olive Davis from the Government Hotel 
at Washington described the problems in 
the administration of Government dormi- 
tories, constitutiong the largest hotel in 
the world for women, with a capacity for 
approximately 2000. Mary Linsley, lately 
appointed dietitian of this Hotel, described 
in detaO the progressive work in handling 
the dietirian's problems. 

Eleanor Wells, of Teachers College, spoke 
of the hospital cafeteria, and Miss Arnold 
of the Y. W. C. A. Board read a paper on 
cafeteria management. Clara Noyes, head 



564 



THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS 



[December 



of the Department of Nursing, American 
Red Cross, spoke of the work of the Red 
Cross Chapter Committees in Nursing 
Activities, and Dr. Louis Bauman of Co- 
lumbia University gave a paper on dieto- 
therapy. Dr. Elizabeth Campbell of the 
Cincinnati General Hospital gave a brief 
talk on the relation of physician and dieti- 
tian. Dr. Campbell said that the "devil 
enters the hospital through the hospital 
food." "If there is not a dietitian, the 
staff should demand one." "There should 
be a field for dietitians to help doctors in 
their private practice." Dr. WiUiam Walsh 
of the Public Health Service gave an out- 
line of the value of dietitians in public 
health service, and Dr. J. R. Murlin told 
" What we have learned in dietetics from 
the army." Bertha Wood of the Boston 
Dispensary made it very evident that the 
dietitian has an indispensable place in the 
dispensary. Dr. Ernest Irons of Chicago 
spoke of ways to avoid the excessive waste 
of food in hospitals, hotels, and households. 
Mrs. Mary Schwartz Rose of Teachers 
College read a most effective paper upon 
child feeding. Many others took part in the 
discussions that lent additional value to the 
meeting. 

The new officers elected were: President, 
Lulu Graves, Cornell University; Vice- 
Presidents, Ruth Wheeler, Goucher College, 
Baltimore, and Margaret Deaver, Mt. 
Sinai Hospital, Cleveland; Secretary, E. 
M. Geraghty, New Haven Hospital; Treas- 
urer, Margaret Sawyer, American Red 
Cross, Washington, D. C. 

The Child Welfare Special. A big 
gray automobile truck known as the "Child 
Welfare Special" was put into the field last 
summer by the Children's Bureau of the 
U. S. Department of Labor to test the use- 
fulness of the automobile in carrying the 
message of better babies into rural com- 
mimities. The truck is completely fitted as 
a model "well baby clinic" with a Govern- 
ment doctor and nurse in charge to examine 
children and give mothers advice concerning 
the care necessary to make and keep them 
well. 



Such advice can be obtained by mothers 
in towns and cities at children's health 
centers; but the country woman is usually 
shut off from such sources of information 
concerning the proper care of her children. 
The Children's Bureau car will demonstrate 
a practical means of bringing education in 
child care to the doors of mothers who are 
far from infant welfare stations, and indeed 
often many miles from doctor or nurse. It 
is hoped that after a few months in the field 
a "log" of the car may be put at the service 
of organizations wishing to operate movable 
health centers. 

The first stop of the car was at Woodson, 
Morgan County, Illinois. In spite of the 
fact that the threshing season was at its 
height, the Government doctor and nurse 
were almost overwhelmed with the crowd 
of mothers, fathers, and babies. Examin- 
ations lasted until late into the evening. 

One mother who through an error lost 
her turn on the first day, and waited in 
vain all through the afternoon to have her 
children examined, returned on the following 
evening from her home several miles out in 
the country, so as not to miss the opportunity 
afforded by the Special. Such is the eager- 
ness of rural mothers to gain help. 

The towns visited by the Special have 
been chosen for the first public showing of 
the Bureau's motion picture "OUR CHIL- 
DREN." This picture shows how the citi- 
zens of one small town, Gadsden, Alabama, 
organized for child welfare and what they 
did to make Gadsden a safe place for children 
to grow up in. The stars of the production 
are Gadsden's prapulation under 6 years of 
age. 

A Remarkable Gathering. Washing- 
ton that has seen so many conferences 
during the last few years, has not welcomed 
a more remarkable gathering than that of 
the first International Congress of Working 
Women that met there from October 28 to 
November 5. Delegates were present from 
Belgium, France, Czecho Slovakia, Japan, 
and India, as well as from the English- 
speaking countries. The Women's Trade 
Union of America acted as hostess. A large 



1919] 



NEWS FROM THE FIELD 



565 



part of the time of the conference was spent 
in considering a simple legislative program 
for all nations, dealing with the care of 
mothers and babies, the protection of child- 
hood, the protection of young womanhood, 
the question of night work, hazardous occu- 
pations, control of unemploj-ment, and the 
eight-hour day. The resolutions formulated 
were passed on to the Labor Congress 
called by the League of Nations in session 
at the same time in Washington. 

While all of these problems have an 
effect upon the home, the conference put 
itself upon record for the welfare of the 
home in a still more direct way, carrying 
over to the wives of working men the same 
protection that was offered to those women 
who were actually themselves employed. 
The delegates from France and from Czecho 
Slovakia were especially urgent in this 
regard. The delegates impressed one as 
not only thoroughly in earnest, but as wise 
and reasonable in their attitude toward the 
questions discussed. Most of them were 
working women, and the conference in- 
cluded some who have made a national 
reputation. 

The official languages used were French 
and English, but speeches were made in the 
language of nearly all the different nations 
represented. Some, like the Japanese, 
spoke English well, and every delegation 
had some member who could interpret into 
the official languages. Miss Richardson of 
the Federal Board and Mrs. Norton repre- 
sented the A. H. E. A. at the conference. 

A Health Center. To keep well women 
well is the purpose of a Health Center re- 
cently opened at 43 East 22nd Street, New 
York City, under the direction of the Social 
Education department of the Y. W. C. A. 
There are no fees, and any woman or girl 
may be examined, advised, and if she wishes, 
enroll for gymnasium work which will be 
given with especial thought toward correc- 
tive exercises. Dr. Florence Meredith, Di- 
rector of the Center, has recently made 
medical examinations at Wellesley College 
and in a Boston factory where 3,500 womtn 
are employed. 



After examining these girls Dr. Meredith 
says, "The main thing that is wrong with 
both classes of girls is harm done by faulty 
eating. Girls eat irregularly, too fast, and 
without proper regard to the rules of diet. 
Next to faulty eating I have found that a 
lack of exercise has caused the greatest 
amount of trouble." 

Dr. Augusta Rucker, Director of the 
Health Division, Bureau of Social Education, 
plans to establbh Health Centers throughout 
the countr}', and to use this one in New York 
as a model where physicians and physical 
directors from various local associations can 
come and study the best methods of carry- 
ing on similar centers. 

The Home Economics Education Con- 
ference at Salt Lake City, Utah, July 28 to 
August 7, was held parti)- because of the 
need to get together the Home Project 
Workers in the twenty districts. These 
supervisors discussed their individual prob- 
lems, and were aided by suggestions from 
one another in the solution of many difficult 
questions. After a successful summer's work 
the consensus of opinion among supervisors, 
mothers, and students seems to be unani- 
mously in favor of the home project. 

During the first week of the convention. 
Miss Isabel Ely Lord gave valuable informa- 
tion and inspiration on methods of teaching 
household management. Her lectures in 
the general assembly were on the Aim of 
Home Economics Education, Surveying the 
Community before Beginning Home Eco- 
nomics Work, and The Girl and the Voca- 
tions. 

Dr. Louise Stanley of the Federal Board 
spoke during the second week of the conven- 
tion on methods of teaching domestic sci- 
ence and domestic art, emphasizing the 
teaching of the principle of underlying proc- 
esses, the use of specific illustrated materials 
and the wise use of text books and methods 
of correlation. In the general session she 
talked on .\dapting Home Economics to 
the Community after the Survey, and The 
Importance of Related Work. 



566 



THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS 



[December 



The ChicAgo School of Domestic 
Arts and Science has registered 355 stu- 
dents for its fall term, representing seven 
diSerent states as well as Manila and Tokio, 
Japan. A number of the students are 
college graduates. A new laboratory has 
been equipped to meet the demand in the 
lecture and demonstration department that 
gives instruction in meal planning and prep- 
aration, in marketing, in the care and feed- 
ing of children, as well as in household 
management and housewifery. Institu- 
tional management and catering are also 
offered. A request has come for a business 
men's lecture course on the choice of suit- 
able lunches. 

One of the interesting experiments of this 
school was undertaken at the request of 
Judge Mary Bartehne of the Juvenile 
Court of Chicago. A group of sixteen 
dependent girls from the homes of the court 
were given courses in cooking, cleaning, 
and serving, and later the girls were placed 
in homes. Judge Bartehne felt that the 
girls had received exceedingly valuable 
help by this work. 

It will be remembered that this school 
some years ago was awarded the money 
left from a fund provided for the women's 
work at the World's Fair in Chicago. 

The Eleventh Year of the Harrison- 
burg, Va., State Normal School opened 
on September 24 with several changes in 
the faculty. Samuel Page Duke, A.B., 
A.M., formerly head of the Department of 
Education at the State Normal School at 
FarmviUe, Va., and for several years Super- 
visor of High Schools for Virginia, is the new 
president; Walter J. Gifiord, A.M., Ph.D., 
formerly of Wooster University and also of 
Goucher College, Baltimore, is the head of 
the Department of Education; Miss Sarah 
M. Wilson, M..\., for nine years at Drexel 
Institute, is Supervisor of Practice Teaching 
and Instructor in Home Economics; Miss 
Grace A. McGuire, B.S., Director of Dining 
Hall, and instructor in Institutional Man- 



agement, has just returned from overseas 
where she served as dietitian for a hospital 
unit. 

This school has gradually raised its re- 
quirements for entrance, and this year offers 
four years of college work with one prepara- 
tory year. The degree of B.S. was first 
awarded last June to a class numbering 
eleven. The Department of Home Econom- 
ics is arranged to meet the requirements of 
the Smith-Hughes Act; this is the only Nor- 
mal School in the State empowered to issue 
degrees under this Act. 

Notes. Miss Gertrude McCheyne, who 
has been for a number of years the success- 
ful leader of extension work in Utah, has 
resigned from her position in the Utah 
State Agricultural College at Logan, and 
accepted the position of State Leader for 
Home Demonstration Work in the state of 
Kentucky. 

Miss Florence Harrison, who for six years 
was Associate in Home Economics and 
Supervisor of Teacher Training at the Uni- 
versity of Illinois has been made Dean of 
the College of Home Economics at the State 
College at Pullman, Wash. 

Miss Elizabeth Beyer, formerly of the 
College of Industrial Arts of Denton, Texas, 
has been appointed to fiU the vacancy at 
the University of Illinois. 

The honorary degree of Doctor of Laws 
was conferred on Sophonisba Preston Breck- 
inridge, Assistant Professor of Sociai Econ- 
omy in the University of Chicago, at the 
commencement of Oberlin College. Miss 
Breckinridge already holds the degrees of 
Doctor of Philosophy and Doctor of Law 
(J.D.) from the University of Chicago. 

Dr. Nellie E. Goldthwaite, who returned 
last summer from the Orient, is to be Assist- 
ant Professor of Home Economics in the 
State Agricultural College, Fort Collins, 
Colo. 



INDEX TO VOLUME XI 



Accounting: See Budget 

Acidity of various syrups used in cookery, 

193 
Addams, Jane. Belated industr>', A, 355 
Affiliated Associations (officers of some),' 

325 
Agriculture of the Hidatsa Indians, 168 
Alphabet, Child health, 315 
Amer. Assn. Agr. Colleges and Experiment 

Stations,* 518 
Amer. Dietetic Assn.,* 231, 374, 563 
American Home Economics Association 

Meetings: Blue Ridge, June, 142,* 

234,* 412; Chicago, Feb.,* 45, 185 
Americanization: Annexing Mulberry Bend, 
iX13; Education for, 187; editorial, 84, 

85. See also Social Work 
Annexing Mulberry Bend to the U. S. .\., 

213 
Announcements: International committee 

on teaching home economics, 514 
Annual meeting: See A. H. E. A. Meetings 
Argentine ranch. Food on, 307 
Army nurse corps (acknowledgment of 

service),* 470 
Asparagus, The canning of, 154 

B 

Baby aristocracy, 314 

Bailey, E. H. S. The use of weight stand- 
ards in handling food products, 312 

Baltimore H. E. Assn.,* 46 

Basement laboratories, comment and dis- 
cussion, 272, 465 

Beginnings of a penny portion lunch, 210 

Belated industry. A, 355 

Belgian society for the education of the 
family, editorial, 225 

Bibliography of home economics: 43, 91, 
139, 183, 277,323,371,561 



BmzEL, Alma, L. Making children worth 

while, 27 
BiRDSEYE, MiRi.\M. Some suggestions from 

the Textile Section, 388 
Blakey, R. G. Wise spending, 128 
Blunt, K.\tharine. Changes in fats ab- 
sorbed by fried foods, 440 
Book Reviews: 

Blue grass cook book, 89 

Broken homes, 515 

Business of the household, The, 136 

Camouflage cookery, 137 

Camp cookery, 467 

Caroline King's cook book, 89 

Department store merchandise man- 
uals: The educational director, 90; 
Millinery, 275 

Diet and health with key to the calor- 
ies, 275 

Dietary for miners, 320 

Dietetics for nurses, 273 

Economical cookery, 89 

Economical war-time cook book, 89 

Economy in food, 229 

Elements of the science of nutrition, 39 

Food and victory, 137 

Food preparation, 182 

Food saving and food sharing, 230 

Home and community hygiene, 273 

Home and its management. The. 181 

Household engineering, 467 

Housewifery, 229 

Institution recipes, 321 

Lessons in cookery: food economy. 274 

Liberty cook book, 89 

Life of Ellen H. Richards, The, 229 

Manual of homemaking, 320 

Marketing and housework manual, 181 

Modern dietetics, 369 

More recipes for fifty, 321 

Newer knowledge of nutrition, The, 
115 



' Those starred are news notes. 



567 



568 



THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS 



[December 



Book Reviews- — conliuued. 

Nutrition and clinical dietetics, 135 
One-hundred-portion war-time recipes, 

369 
Save and have, 319 
Sewing and textiles, 40 
Study of fabrics, 181 
Textiles and clothing, 319 
Well baby primer, 467 
Yarn and cloth making: an economic 
study, 275 

BowEN, Ruth. Visiting housekeeping with 
the Jensons, 125 

Brandt, Iva L. A course in textile shop- 
ping, 533 

Bread: See Cookery 

Breckinridge, S. P. Education for the 
Americanization of the foreign family, 
187 

Budget: Budget making, 172; Divide your 
food dollar into fifths, 311; Plan of 
spending for the home, 453; Putting 
over budget lessons, 484. See also 
Thrift 

Budget making, 172 

Bull, Mary L. The Chatfield laundry- 
after six years, 222 

Bunch, Mamie. A course for home demon- 
stration agents: the Illinois plan, 430 

Burdick, Anna Lalor. The wage-earn- 
ing girl and home economics, 327 



Cafeteria, Comparative waste in a dining 
hall and a cafeteria, 540 

Cake: See Cookery 

Canning and Preserving: The canning of 
asparagus, 154; Effect of pack and 
depth of water bath upon interior tem- 
perature of jars in cold pack canning, 
246 

Canning of asparagus, 154 

Castle, Carrie E. Effect of pack and 
depth of water bath upon interior 
temperature of jars in cold pack can- 
ning, 246 

Cation, J.\net G. Putting over budget 
lessons, 484 

Cave of precious things, The, 215 

Centigrade scale compared with Fahren- 
heit, 123 



Changes in the ci si of living, 311 

Changes in fats absorbed by fried foods, 440 

Changes in food value of vegetables due 
to cooking, 143, 200 

Changes in physical and chemical constants 
of fats used for frying a standard 
dough, 3y4 

Chatfield laundry. The, 222 

Chicago School of Domestic Arts and 
Science,* 566 

Child health alphabet, 315 

Child survey, Boston,* 326 

Child Welfare Special,* 564 

Child welfare standards* 373 

Children: Baby aristocracy, 314; Child 
health alphabet, 315; Child welfare 
standards,* 373; Content of a college 
course on child welfare, 70; Home 
economics and child welfare, 403; An 
Incident (teaches child to choose ap- 
propriate clothes), 459; Making chil- 
dren worth while, 27; Malnutrition, 5, 
95; Nutrition classes for children, 471; 
Outlines on child care, 102; Plea for 
the pre-school age, 501 

Clothing and Textiles: A course in textile 
shopping, 533; Household arts and the 
high school girl, 488; An Incident 
(illustrates wise choice of material), 
459; Putting over budget lessons, 484; 
Questionnaire on teaching, 367; Re- 
lated art for home economics courses 
in Smith Hughes schools, 300; Sug- 
gestions from the Textile Section, 388; 
Textile lessons for homemakers, 241 
College of William and Mary,* 93 
Comment and Discussion: Attention of 
college teachers, 558; Basement labora- 
tories, 272, 465; Educational needs 
of girls in S. Amer., 180; Fat absorp- 
tion, 558; A hint to the teacher of cook- 
ing, 36; Obdurate educators, 417; 
Questionnaire on teaching clothing and 
textiles, 367 
Communal kitchens,* 94 
Community Work: See Social Work 
Conference of home demonstration agents,* 

469 
Conference of state leaders, home demon- 
stration agents in northern and western 
states,* 141 



1919] 



INDEX TO VOLtTME 



569 



Congress of Working Women,* 564 

CoNLEY, Emua. a simple guide for plan- 
ning meals, 310 

Connecticut H. E. A.,* 517 

Conservation: The silver lining of our con- 
servation cloud, 59 

Content of a college course on child welfare, 
70 

Cook, Dorothy M. Factors influencing 
the amount of invert sugar in fondant, 
65 

Cookery: Acidity of syrups, 193; Changes 
in fats absorbed by fried foods, 440; 
Changes in fats used for frjang a stand- 
ard dough, 394; Changes in food value 
of vegetables due to cooking, 143, 200; 
Experimental cookery, 119, 166, 351; 
Food selection and preparation, 2S8; 
Italian cookerj', 337; Use of desiccated 
eggs, 108 

Cooperative: Chatiield laundry, 222; Co- 
operative research, 166; Swiss wash 
kitchen, 220. See also Social Work 

Cooperative research in experimental cook- 
ery, 166 

CoRDiNER, Lucy. Rationing the fire suf- 
ferers in Minnesota, 347 

Cost of food, 163 

Cost of living: Changes in the cost of living, 
311; Problem of the high cost of living, 
543; Some pre-war prices and their 
increase, 177; A study of the present 
cost of food, 163; Wages and the cost 
of living, editorial, 270 

Course for home demonstration agents: the 
Illinois plan, 430 

Course in textile shopping, 533 

Courses in home economics: See Study and 
Teaching 

Cozens, Ella Rau. Changes in physical 
and chemical constants of fats used for 
frying a standard dough, 394 

Cultural value of home economics, 24 

D 

Daniels, Aiiv L. Acidity of various 
syrups used in cookery, 193; Factors 
influencing the amount of invert sugar 
in fondant, 65 



Davis, Helen Lee. How to make home 

economics work function, 423 
Dean, Arthur D. The house speaks, 169 
Denny, Grace G. Textile lessons for 

homemakers, 241 
Denton, Minna C. Changes in food 
value of vegetables due to cooking, 143, 
.!00; What is experimental cookery? 
119 
Dickey, Elva M. An Incident, 459 
Diet: Jewish dietary problems, 47; Mal- 
nutrition clinic as a problem in dieta- 
ries, 95; Mineral matter in the diet 
(verse), 178; An S. A. T. C. diet 
kitchen, 252. See also Food Values 
Divide your food dollar into fifths, 311 
Does luxurious expenditure give employ- 
ment to labor? 82 
Domestic Art: See Clothing and Textiles 
Domestic Service: A belated industry, 355; 
Seven weeks experiment by committee 
on household assistants, 548; editorial, 
555 
Donham, S. Agnes. Budget making, 172 
Drying: See Canning and Preserving 

E 

Earl, Dora L. Mineral matter in the 
diet, 178 

Economics: See Thrift 

Editorial: Another way to help the Jour- 
nal, 511, 555; Are we shirking? 555; 
Belgian society for the education of 
the family, 225; Foreign letters, 508; 
Home economics contributions to the 
fifth liberty loan, 179; The Journal 
555; The Journal's new dress, 36; 
Letter from Savings Division, U. S. 
Treasury, to A. H. E. A., 132; Methods 
of Americanization, 85; New condi- 
tions and new duties, 84; National cam- 
paign for government savings and in- 
vestment, 365; Proposed legislation, 
556; Standardizing research work in 
home economics, 179; Training for 
motherhood, 35; Wages and the cost 
of living, 270; What is waste? 317 

Education: 5*8 Study and Teaching 

Education for the Americanization of the 
foreign family, 187 



570 



THE JOXIRNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS 



[December 



Educators, Obdurate, 417 

Effect of pack and depth of water bath 
upon interior temperature of jars in 
cold pack canning, 246 

Eggs, The use of desiccated, 108 

Ellen H. Richards Memorial Fellowship: 
45*; editorial, 179; 280* 

Experimental cookery, 119, 351 

Extension Section, 462 

Extension Work : A Course for home demon- 
stration agents, 430; Farm Bureau and 
home demonstration work, 77; Home 
demonstration schools and short courses 
in Florida, 296. See also Social Work 



Factors influencing the amount of invert 
sugar in fondant, 65 

Fancher, Laxjretta. The cultural value 
of home economics, 24 

Farm Bureau and home demonstration 
work, 77 

Fat absorption and decomposition in frj-ing, 
393 

Fats: Changes in fats absorbed by fried 
foods, 440; Changes in fats used for 
frjang a standard dough, 394; Method 
of determining the decomposition point 
of edible fats, 480; comment and dis- 
cussion, 558 

Fellowships in home economics (U. of 
Chicago),* 280 

Fellowships in social-economic research,* 141 

Fire sufferers. Rationing, 347 

Fondant, Factors influencing the amount of 
invert sugar in, 65 

Food on an Argentine ranch — long ago, 307 

Food selection and preparation, 288 

Food Values: Changes in food value of vege- 
tables due to cooking, 143, 200; A 
Simple guide for planning meals, 310; 
Use of desiccated eggs, 108. See also 
Cookery; Diet; Nutrition 

Foreign family: See Americanization; Social 
Work 

French, Martha H. The relationship be- 
tween the state supervisor of vocational 
education and the city supervisor of 
home economics, 343 



Gas consumption of the household range, 

158 
Gladish, Nancy G. Household arts and 

the high school girl, 488 
Glasgow, Grace. The canning of aspara- 
gus, 154 
Goldstein, Harriet. Related art for home 

economic courses in Smith-Hughes 

schools, 300 
Gray, Greta. \'ocational training for 

girls, 493 
Greer, Carlotta C. When, how much, 

and to whom should home economics be 

taught? 235 

H 

Harper, Mary A. Nutrition classes for 
children, 471 

Harrisonburg Normal School,* 93, 566 

Health, An ode to, 132 

Health Center* 565 

Heisig, Esther H. Acidity of various 
syrups used in cookery, 193 

Home and thrift, 171 

Home Bureau: See A Course for home 
demonstration agents, 430 

Home demonstration agents: Conference of* 
469; Course for, 430 

Home demonstration schools and short 
courses in Florida, 296 

Home demonstration work: See Extension 
Work 

Home economics and child welfare, 403 

Home Econ. Educ. Conference* 565 

Home economics in the woman's college, 375 

H. E. Section of the Indiana State Teachers 
Assn.,* 232 

Home membership, Worthy, 306 

Home service work of the A. R. C* 326 

Home ties over seas, 553 

Homes for workers engaged in war indus- 
tries,* 94 

Hood CoUege (Practice Cottage),* 326 

House speaks, The, 169 

Household arts, Chicago public schools, 380 

Household arts and the high school girl, 488 

Household arts in the public schools, Lexing- 
ton, Ky., 385 



1919] 



INDEX TO VOLUME 



571 



Household assistants, Seven weeks experi- 
ment by committee on, 548 

How to make home economics work function, 
423 

I 

Incident, An, 439 

India : (a letter from Mrs. Strong) 508 

Indiana University,* 326 

Indians, Agriculture of the Hidatsa, 168 

Industrial Education: See Study and Teach- 
ing 

Inland Empire Educational Association 
(Twenty-first annual session)*, 325 

Inspection vs. eating, 131 

Institution Administration Round Table, 
Teachers College,* 279 

Institution Economics Section, 233,* 511 

Institution Management: Chatfield laundry, 
222; Institution Administration Round 
Table,* 279; Penny portion lunch, 210; 
An S. A. T. C. diet kitchen, 252. See 
also Institution Economics Section. 

Iowa State College (H. E. Division),* 373 

Italian cookery, 337 



Jewish dietary problems, 47 



Kans. State Agr. Coll.*, 517 
Korea: (a letter from Etta Belle Grimes), 510 
Kkuxcer, Jean. A Study of the present 
cost of food, 163 



Langwortdy, C. F. The Office of H. E., 

13,519 
Laimdry, The Chatfield, 222 
League for Preventive Work,* 326 
Legislation: Legislative program of the A. 

H. E. A., 498; A New program for the 

promotion of home economics in the 

schools, 261; editorial, 556 
Legislative program of the A. H. E. A., 498 
Lhamon, Lois. The use of desiccated eggs, 

108 
Life members of the A. H. E. A.,* 326 



Lunch, A penny portion, 210 
LusK, Graham. Nutritional standards of 
adolescence, 281 



M 



McCracken, Elizabeth. Home economics 

and child welfare, 403 
MacDonald, Pearl. A plan of spending 

for the home, 453 
Making children worth while, 27 
Malnutrition: See Children 
Malnutrition clinic as a university problem 

in applied dietaries, 95 
Mariotti, Eva. Italian cookery, 337 
Masslich, George B. The beginnings of 

a penny portion lunch, 210 
Meal planning, a simple guide for, 310 
Meetmgs of A. H. E. A. See A. H. E. A. 

Meetings 
Mendenhall, Dorothy Reed. Outlines 

on child care, 102; Plea for the pre- 
school age, 501 
Menus: See Cookery; Diet 
Method of determining the decomposition 

point of edible fats, 480 
Methods to be used in the study of gas 

consumption of the ordinary household 

range, 158 
Milk: Its relation to race characteristics, 131 
Milk, What it takes to produce, 76 
Mineral matter in the diet, (verse), 178 
MoRG.\N, Agnes Fay. Changes in physical 

and chemical constants of fats used for 

frying a standard dough, 394 
Motherhood, Training for, editorial, 35 
Mulberry Bend, Annexing to the U. S. A., 

213 



N 



National Conf. of Social Work,* 233 
National Dairy Show, 46,* 76 
National Research Council,* 422 
National Society for Vocational Education,* 

45 
New England H. E. Assn.,* 231 
New program for the promotion of home 

economics in the schools, 261 
N. Y. Assn. of Dietitians,* 232 
"Newer knowledge of nutrition," 115 



572 



TfiE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS 



[December 



News Notes (other news items are starred 
throughout the index): Alpha Theta 
Pi, 142; Beyer, Elizabeth, 566; Bradley, 
AUce, 94; Breckinbridge, S. P., 280, 566; 
Cooper, Charles, 518; Courses on mar- 
keting, 326; Gearing, Mary, 142; Gold- 
thwaite, N. E., 374, 566; Harrison, 
Florence, 566; Jones, Nellie Kedzie, 94 
McCheyne, Gertrude, 566; McCullough 
E. Grace, 280; Mass. Agr. College, 518 
Mills College, 94; Peabody CoUege, 518 
Practice house, U. of Chicago, 518 
Ravenhill, Alice, 142; Skinner, Edna, 94 
Stem, Frances, 142; Univ. of .'\lberta, 
142; Univ. of Indiana, 94; Univ. of 
Minn., 94 
Nursing and home economics,* 93 
Nutrition: Milk — its relation to race char- 
acteristics, 131; Newer knowledge of 
nutrition, 115; Nutrition classes for 
children, 471; Nutritional standards of 
adolescence, 281. See also Children; 
Diet; Food Values 
Nutrition classes for children, 471 
Nutritional standards of adolescence, 281 

O 

Ode to health, 132 

Office of Home Economics, 13 

Office of Home Economics: Some results of 

the work carried on during the fiscal 

year, 1918-1919,519 
Omicron Nu, 26, 186,* 374* 
Opportunity, Our, 1 
Oregon H. E. A.,* 325 
Our opportunity, 1 
Outlines of courses in household arts, 

Chicago public schools, 380 
Outlines on child care, 102 



Partner at home, 457 

Partridge, Sarah W. Home demonstra- 
tion schools and short courses in Fla., 
296 

Peek, LiLtiAN. The silver lining of our 
conservation cloud, 59 

Penny portion lunch, 210 

Peterson, Mrs. Frederick. Child health 
alphabet, 315 



Plan of spending for the home, 453 

Plea for the pre-school age, 501 

Pledge to our country, frontispiece, January 

Practice in homemaking adjustments, 233* 

Prayer for a little home, 554 

Preserving : Sec Canning 

Prices, Some pre-war, and their increase, 177 

Problem of the high cost of Uving, 543 

Project: See Study and Teaching 

Putting over budget lessons, (clothing) 484 



Queries (sanitary conditions in groceries), 
452 

Question Box: Bleaching flour, 227; Coffee 
with cream, 37; Digestibility of boiled 
eggs, 368; Milk curdle in candy, 557; 
Potato water, 37; Poison in orange peel, 
228; Tea with fish, 37; Toxin in cotton 
seed meal, 38 

Quotations (not otherwise listed) : Conser- 
vation and Thrift, 4, 12, 23, 69, 88, 171, 
547; soldiers' rations, 269; wartime 
changes in diet, 439 

R 

Ranch, Food on an Argentine, 307 

Range, Gas consumption of the, 153 

Rationing the fire sufferers of Minn., 347 

Ravenhill, Alice. Content of a college 
course on child welfare, 70; Reconstruc- 
tion in relation to home economics, 436 

Recent advances in our knowledge of food 
selection and preparation, 288 

Recognition of home economics* 94 

Reconstruction: Our opportunity, 1; Silver 
lining of our conservation cloud 59; 
editorial, 84 

Reconstruction in relation to home eco- 
nomics, 436 

Related art for home economics courses in 
Smith-Hughes schools, 300 

Relationship between state supervisor of 
vocational education and city super- 
visor of home economics, 343 

Remarkable gathering, A,* 564 

Research : See Cookery 

Research in experimental cookery, 166; 
editorial, 179; reports, 351 



1919] 



INDEX TO VOLITME 



573 



Resolutions: Americanization, 85; clothing 
and textiles, 388; health, 85; thrift, 84, 
366; extension work, 464; recognition of 
hospitality at Blue Ridge, 464; voca- 
tional educadon, 464 

Review of some recent literature on malnu- 
trition in children, 5 

RiCHABDS: See Ellen H. Richards 

Richards, Lexore. Study of comparative 
waste in a dining hall and in a cafeteria, 
540 

Roberts, Lydla.. A malnutrition clinic as 
a university problem in applied dieta- 
ries, 95; A review of some recent litera- 
ture on malnutridon in children, 5 

Rose, Mary Swartz: The newer knowledge 
of nutrition (book review), 115 

Rural Work: 5ee Extension Work 



Sanitary conditions in groceries (5 questions), 

452 
SCHAPIRO, Mary L. Jewish dietary prob- 
lems, 47 
Scholarship in home economics (U. of Wis.)* 

280 
School : See Study and Teaching 
School lunch : See penny portion lunch 
Science Section, 460 
Score cards: Cake, 354; Textiles, 245 
Service: See Domestic Service 
Seven weeks experiment by the committee 

on household assistants, 548 
Sewing: See Clothing and Textiles 
Silver lining of our conser\'ation cloud, 59 
Simple guide for planning meals, A, 310 
SniRALL, Anne. Household arts in the 

public schools, Lexington, Ky., 385 
Skdjner, Alice. The canning of asparagus, 

154 
Smith, C. B. The Farm Bureau and home 

demonstration work, 77 
Smith-Hughes Bill: See Legislation 
Smith-Hughes Schools: See Study and 

Teaching 
Smoot Bill, 499 
Snow, Jenny H. Outline of courses in 

household arts, Chicago public schools, 

380 



Social Work: Italian cookery, 337; Jewish 
dietary problems, 24; Nutrition classes 
for children, 471; Rationing the fire 
sufferers of Minn., 347; \'isiting house- 
keeping with the Jensons, 125; Welfare 
work in a mining town, 21. See also 
Americanization; Extension Work 

Some pre-war prices, 1860, and their increase, 
177 

Some suggestions from the Textile Section, 
388 

Spragite, Elizabeth C. A method of 
determining the decomposition point of 
edible fats, 480 

Standardization: Cooperative research in 
experimental cookery, 166; Methods in 
study of gas consumption, 158; Stand- 
ardizing research work in home eco- 
nomics, editorial, 179; Suggestions 
from the Textile Section, 388; LTse of 
weight standards in handling food 
products, 312; What is experimental 
cooker>'? 119 

S. A. T. C. diet kitchen, 252 

Study and Teaching: Content of a college 
course on child welfare, 70; Course in 
textile shopping, 533; Cultural value of 
home economics, 24; Education for 
americanization, 187; Home economics 
in the woman's college, 375; Home 
demonstration schools and short courses 
in Florida, 296; Household arts and the 
high school girl, 488; Household arts, 
public schools — Chicago, 380, Lexington 
Ky., 385; How to make home economics 
work function, 423; New program for 
the promotion of home economics in 
the schools, 261; Our opportunity, 1; 
Outlines on child care, 102; Reconstruc- 
tion and home economics, 436; Related 
art for home economics courses in Smith- 
Hughes schools, 300; Relationship be- 
tween state supers'isor of vocational 
education and city supervisor of home 
economics, 343; Silver lining of our 
reconstruction cloud, 59; Textile le.ssons 
for homemakers, 241; Vocational train- 
ing for girls, 493; Wage-earning girl and 
home economics, 327; When, how much, 
and to whom should home economics 



574 



THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS 



[December 



be taught? 235; Worthy home member- 
ship, 306 

Study of comparative waste in a dining hall 
and in a cafeteria, 540 

Study of the present cost of food, 163 

Sugar, Invert in fondant, 65 

Supervisor: See Study and Teaching 

Swiss wash Icitchen, 220 

Syrups, Acidity of, 193 



Tacoma H. E. Assn.,* 325 
Teaching: 5fe Study and Teaching 
Textile lessons for homemakers, 241 
Textile Section: Questionnaire, 367; Report, 
513; Suggestions from, 388; Topics for 
study, 93* 
Textiles: See Clothing and Textiles 
Thrift: The cave of precious things, 215; 
Does luxurious expenditure give em- 
ployment to labor? 82; The home and 
thrift, 171; National campaign for 
government savings and investment, 
editorial, 365; Partner at home 457; 
Wise spending, 128, editorial, 133. See 
also Budget 
Treat, Nola. Study of comparative waste 
in a dining hall and in a cafeteria, 540 

U 
Univ. of lU.,* 280 

Univ. of Minn. (Div. of H. E.),* 280 
Univ. of S. Dak., (H. E. Dept.),* 232 
Univ. of Wis. (h. e. courses),* 518 
Use of desiccated eggs, 108 
Use of weight standards in handling food 
products, 312 

V 

Visiting housekeeping with the Jensons, 125 
Vocational education: See Study and 

Teaching 
Vocational training for girls, 493 



W 

Wangenheim, Alice. The cave of precious 

things, 215 
War service acknowledged,* 470 
Wash kitchen, the Swiss, 220 
Waste, What is? editorial, 317 
Waste in a dining hall and a cafeteria, 540 
Wage-earning girl and home economics, 327 
Weight standards in handling food products, 

312 
Welfare work in a mining town, 21 
Wellm.an-, Mabel T. Recent advances in 

our knowledge of food selection and 

preparation, 288 
What is experimental cookery? 119 
What it takes to produce mUk, 76 
Wheeler, Ruth. Home economics in the 

woman's college, 375 
When, how much, and to whom should home 

economics be taught? 235 
Whitacre, Jessie. An S. A. T. C. diet 

kitchen, 252 
White, Edn.a N. A new program for the 

promotion of home economics in the 

schools, 261 ; Our opportunity, 1 
Wilson, Ellen Howard. The Swiss wash 

kitchen, 220 
Wilson, Isabella. Welfare Work in a 

mining touTi, 21 
Wise spending, 128 
Women's club markets products,* 93 
WooDRLTTF, Sybil. Changes in fats ab- 
sorbed by fried foods, 440 
Worthy home membership, 306 



YonkersH. E. Ass'n,* 231 



TX JoTornal of home economics 

1 

J7 

v.ll 

Food 

Sciences 



PLEASE DO NOT REMOVE 
CARDS OR SLIPS FROM THIS POCKET 

UNIVERSITY OF TORONTO LIBRARY 



