715 
3 
19 

py 1 



1 




r 



Dainties 
Salads and 1 
Clever Hints 





m n in nil 



nn n n n n m iinin n n n m » 






JUL 24 191 



-M509 299 



-"'^O 



DAINTIES, SALADS AND CLEVER HINTS 



Soups 



BOUILLON — Boil beef with 14 cup each of carrots, celery, 
sweet pepper, Spanish onion and 2 tomatoes, 8 cloves, salt and 
pepper to taste. Strain stock through 3 layers of cheese cloth. 
Cool and remove all fat. Strain again. Serve cold or hot. If 
cold, with cracked ice. Be sure there is no particle of fat. 

CORN SOUP — Take 1 can of corn to a quart of milk, put 
in double boiler ; boil I/2 hour ; take off and strain ; then in a sep- 
arate spider put 1 tablespoon of butter and 2 of flour; cook 
until smooth ; then stir into soup, adding pepper and salt. Beat 
up an egg and put in just before serving. 

POTATO SOUP— Two quarts water, 1 quart potatoes. 
When cooked run through sieve, then add 1 cup sweet cream 
and a small piece of butter; season with salt and pepper. 

TOMATO BOUILLON— One peck of ripe tomatoes, 1 
bunch of celery, 6 onions. Chop and boil and then strain. One- 
half cup flour, 1/2 cup butter, 1/1 cup salt, 1 cup sugar, dash red 
pepper. 

VEGETABLE SOUP — Four pounds of soup meat covered 
with cold water. As it comes to the boil, skim. Boil for 3 
hours. Have vegetables cooked separately, using potatoes, 
onions, celery and turnips. When the meat is done take out 
and add the vegetables, also a cup of cooked rice and season 
to taste. Cooking the meat alone and adding the vegetables 
seems to give it a better flavor. 

MUTTON BROTH— Boil 1 pound lean mutton or lamb in 1 
quart of unsalted water. When very tender, take out, strain 
the water; add a tablespoon rice previously soaked in a little 
warm water. Simmer 30 minutes. Stir often. Season to 
taste; add 4 tablespoons milk. Simmer again and serve hot, 
with crackers. 

LIMA BEAN SOUP— Small soup bone ; cook slowly for 3 
hours. Soak 1 pound Lima beans over night, when ready to 
use. Rub off skins. Add to meat, and boil until all are 
reduced to pulp. Add 1 small onion and piece of butter size 
of an egg. Salt and pepper to taste. Peas can be used the 
same way. This is especially nourishing. 



DAINTIES, SALADS AND CLEVER HINTS 



CREAM OF CELERY SOUP— One head of celery, 1 onion 
cut small. Stew soft in pint of water. Mash in water and 
strain. Boil ly^ pints of milk with large tablespoon of butter 
and 2 tablespoons flour rubbed together. Salt and pepper; 
add strained celery, and before serving, add 1 cup whipped 
cream. 

CELERY SOUP — Small head of celery, cut up and 1 quart 
of water. Boil until tender with a little salt. When tender, 
mash through a strainer into the same water. Pint of milk in 
a double boiler and let boil with 1 onion in it. After flavored 
with onion, remove it and pour the celery and water into the 
milk. Tablespoon flour, tablespoon butter. Mix together and 
thicken the soup with it. 



O y s t e r s 



OYSTER COCKTAIL— Small plump oysters, 6 to a glass. 
Serve with small pieces of cracked ice in each glass. Be sure 
oysters are free from water melted from ice ; then add to each 
glass a tablespoonful of the dressing. 

For 10 glasses mix 5 tablespoonsful each of horse radish 
and tomato catsup, juice of 2 lemons, dash of salt and cayenne 
pepper, and tiny bits of chopped red pepper. 

OYSTER SOUP — One quart oysters washed and drained, 
1 pint milk, 1 pint water, brought to a boil ; skim, season with 
salt, pepper and butter; add oysters, and as soon as the first 
one rises to the top add one cup rich cream; in two minutes 
serve. 

ESCALLOPED OYSTERS— One quart oysters ; 1 package 
Uneeda Biscuit ; 4 tablespoons cream ; salt and pepper. Wash 
and drain oysters, crush crackers ; butter baking pan, and put 
in layer of crackers, dot with small pieces of butter and season, 
then a layer of oysters; continue until pan is full, with top 
layer of crackers, with plenty of butter. Pour over the 
cream and set in a pan of hot water; bake 30 minutes in a 
-medium oven. 

NEW ORLEANS OYSTER A LA CREOLE— Chop fine 12 
large oysters ; add 2 chopped hard boiled eggs, salt, pepper and 
a generous quantity of butter. Put in hot skillet, stir rapidly 



DAINTIES, SALADS AND CLEVER HINTS 



for one minute. Mix with 1 cup finely rolled cracker crumbs, 
V2 cup rich, sweet cream. Fill pate shells, put pieces of butter 
over top, brush top with beaten salted and peppered egg, 
bake light brown, serve hot with minced parsley sprinkled 
over top. 

BROILED OYSTERS— Select large fine oysters. Dry on 
soft towel ; roll in egg well salted and peppered, roll in cracker 
crumbs ; lay on well buttered griddle, and broil in broiling oven 
2 or 3 minutes. Serve on fancy pieces of toast with pieces of 
lemon as garnish. 

LA BELLE OYSTERS— Have ready on ice 1 pint of thick 
whipped cream, toast thin slices of bread, one for each plate, 
butter well, and place 4 large oysters on each slice ; season with 
pepper and salt and bits of butter; return to toasting oven. 
When oysters are well curled and frizzling hot, cover with 
mound of stiffly beaten whites of eggs seasoned with a little 
salt and paprika. Make a depression in the center of each egg 
mound, return to oven, and brown slightly! Take from oven 
and carry at once to the table. Let the host place in each egg 
mound, 1 large spoonful of whipped cream. You will not have 
reason to regret setting this dish before your guests. 

CODDLED OYSTERS— Put a small tablespoon of butter 
in a sauce-pan, when melted pour in enough tomato catsup to 
nicely cover the number of oysters to be used ; when this begins 
to bubble add the oysters, and cook two minutes, pour on slices 
of toast, and serve at once. 

PANNED OYSTERS— Place 1 tablespoon butter, 1 tea- 
spoon salt, 1/2 salt spoon cayenne pepper, 1 salt spoon pepper, 
in sauce pan ; when hot lay in 1 pint oysters washed and dried 
in towel; cover the pan closely and shake to keep the oysters 
from sticking, and when plump and hot serve on hot but- 
tered toast. 

BLANKET OYSTERS— Cut Bacon thin as gauze, wrap a 
slice around a large oyster, pin with tooth picks, broil over 
coals or in gas oven, turn to crisp bacon. Dash of pepper on 
each. Serve on thin toast. 

FRIED OYSTERS— Beat one egg, add salt and pepper, 
drain oysters, dip in egg then roll in bread crumbs, fry in but- 
ter. Can use part lard. 



DAINTIES, SALADS AND CLEVER HINTS 



Fish 



TO FRY FISH— Scale, clean, cut off tails and fins, let stand 
in salt water; this makes the flesh firm. Drain, or wipe dry. 
Roll in yellow corn meal and fry in hot bacon fat. Salt and 
pepper. Turn frequently till a golden brown. 

BAKED FISH — Clean, and stand in salt water an hour. 
Bake as you would a roast. Stuff with bread dressing, or 
mashed potatoes. Cover with strips of bacon. Dredge with 
flour and baste frequently. Season when first put in pan with 
large spoon of butter. 

PLANKED WHITE FISH— Clean; take out bones, stand 
in salt water an hour, put on an oak plank with bits of butter 
and salt. Put in oven. Bake about an hour — moderate heat. 
To make a fancy dish of it, take out when nearly done. Put a 
"ruffle" of mashed potatoes around plank. Return to oven 
and brown. When ready for the table, garnish with cooked 
beets, lemon or pimentoes. 

SALMON LOAF — Flake a can of salmon fine and mix with 
2 cups of bread crumbs and 2 eggs. Season with salt, cayenne, 
onion chopped fine, or onion juice, lemon juice. Form into a 
loaf ; put in a buttered pan and bake 1 hour ; cover with paper 
and set in a pan of hot water. 

CODFISH BALLS— Remove from the fish all the bones 
that you can find. Cut both fish and potato fine, then take 1 
cup of salt fish, 2 cups of potato, 2 tablespoonsful of cream, 1 
tablespoonful melted butter, 1 egg, season with pepper. Make 
into cakes and fry in smoking hot pork fat. 

LOBSTER NEWBURG— One pint can for 8 persons. Put 
about 14 pint of cream on stove, with yolks of two eggs, well 
beaten. Stir constantly until it thickens ; add lobster and sea- 
soning. When well heated it is done. Serve in small dishes or 
on small squares of brown buttered toast. 

CLAM SOUP — Twenty-five large clams, 1 cup boiled milk, 
1 blade mace, pepper to taste, place cleaned clams in a deep 
kettle, add 1 cup cold water; cover. When the clams can be 
easily removed, skim out, drain off the liquor. To 4 cups of 
broth add 2 cups hot water, the mace and pepper, let boil, add 
clams chopped fine. Place kettle on back of range to reduce 



DAINTIES, SALADS AND CLEVER HINTS 



temperature, then add the hot milk. This is to prevent curd- 
ling; the milk must be the hottest. 

SALMON BALLS — One can salmon picked into bits and 
mixed with an equal quantity of cold mashed potatoes, a little 
milk or cream and butter. Season with salt and cayenne pep- 
per; bind with a beaten egg; make into cakes, dredge with 
flour and fry. 

CLAM CHOWDER— Fry out 1 pound salt pork, chop fine 
6 large onions, 6 tomatoes, 6 large potatoes, 35 clams, add 1 
teaspoonf ul thyme, 1/4 cup chopped parsley, pepper and salt to 
taste. Add juice of clams and water enough to cover all well. 
Boil 3 or 4 hours. 

BAKED CANNED SALMON— Freshen by pouring over 
contents of 1 can of salmon, 3 cups of cold water and let come 
to a boil. Beat up lightly 2 eggs; stir into fish after it has 
drained and cooled. Add V^ cup of cream (or milk and a little 
butter) and a little salt. Put in individual baking dishes and 
sprinkle over with rolled crackers. Bake 14 hour. 



Me a ts 



ROAST BEEF— There is just one way to roast beef. 
First of all have an illuminum roaster with a lid. Get your 
butcher to put a little suet in the center before he ties it 
together. Wash and wipe dry. Sear thoroughly in smoking 
hot frying pan. Have a large spoon of bacon fat in the roaster. 
Put meat in without any seasoning or water. Close tightly and 
put in hot oven. In half hour turn. When it is about half 
done, add a little water, season and dredge with flour. Re- 
peat this several times, until done; add dressing and potatoes 
% hour before done. There will be sufficient juices for gravy. 

ROAST PORK — Same as beef, except add a little water, 
and a tablespoon of vinegar when put in roaster, instead of fat. 

LEG OF MUTTON, OR LAMB— Same as pork. 

TOASTED STEAKS— Get porterhouse steak, trim and cut 
edges. Rub the frying pan — which must be smoking hot with 
a piece of fat off the steak. Put steak in, keep it smoking hot, 
turn often. It will cook quickly. The meal should all be ready 
so meat can be served at once. Put on hot platter. Season. 
Spread with butter. This is most delicious. Should the pan 



DAINTIES, SALADS AND CLEVER HINTS 



cool and the meat boil, take out till pan is again smoking hot, 
otherwise it will be tough. 

SWISS STEAK— Flank steak cut in pieces, and with the 
edge of a saucer, pound in V2 cup of flour. Fry in hot bacon 
fat. Season, fry moderately. When done remove to hot plat- 
ter. To make gravy, brown flour in fat before adding milk. 

BREADED VEAL AND PORK CHOPS— Beat 2 eggs very 
light, dip the chop in this a piece at a time, so as to cover both 
sides with the egg, then roll in grated bread crumbs, salt and 
pepper, fry in half butter and lard until a nice brown. Veal 
will taste very much like chicken fixed this way. 

VEAL CROQUETTES— One pint of cold veal chopped fine, 
1 cup each of rice and mashed potatoes, season, roll in eggs 
and crumbs, fry to a light brown. 

ESCALLOPED VEAL— Made same as oysters. Veal is 
cooked tender and cut in pieces with knife or better pulled 
apart with the fingers. Cold boiled eggs, sliced and used with 
veal, makes it delicious. 

PRESSED TONGUE— Cover a large beef tongue with cold 
water, and let it simmer four hours, take up and cool, boil 
liquor until reduced to a pint, place tongue in bowl and chop 
fine, add 1 teaspoon of salt, pinch of cayenne pepper, i/^ tea- 
spoon of cinnamon, allspice, white pepper, and 14 teaspoon of 
cloves and mace, mix well and place in a square tin, pour over 
the boiling water, to which has been added 3 tablespoonsful 
of vinegar, set away for ten hours. Slice thin when served. 



Chicken and Wild Fowl y^ 

FRIED CHICKEN— Clean, cut in pieces, wipe dry. Roll 
in flour and fry in equal parts of lard and butter, season, cover 
and fry slowly. Should it get too hard, pour in a little water 
and cook a few minutes longer. 

STEWED CHICKEN— Clean, cut in pieces. Put a small 
amount of cold water over it. When it comes to the boil, skim ; 
add 1 tablespoon of vinegar. When about half done, season. 
Make gravy with flour worked smooth in cold water. Potatoes 
added in time to cook them, and removed before the gravy is 
made, makes them delicious. 



10 DAINTIES, SALADS AND CLEVER HINTS 

ROAST CHICKEN— Clean, wipe dry. Rub well with lard. 
Stuff, place in closed roaster. When half done baste, season, 
dredge with flour. Repeat this 3 or 4 times. It will be 
delicious. 

CREAM CHICKEN—Pick cold boiled chicken into small 
pieces; to 1 chicken add 1 pint cream, 3 hard-boiled eggs, 
whites chopped fine ; heat cream and make sauce as follows : 2 
tablespoons butter creamed, with a cup of flour; beat into hot 
cream; season with parsley, onion, red and black pepper, nut- 
meg and salt ; serve on platter with yolks of eggs, rubbed fine. 

CHICKEN PIE— Cook chicken till tender. Pick from 
bones. Put in baking pan with butter, seasoning, 3 cups of 
stock, 1 cup of milk, thickened with Sy^ tablespoons flour. 
Keep warm, while making crust. Make a rich batter of 2 cups 
flour, salt, 2 teaspoons baking powder. Beat an egg, add 1 
cup milk, then the flour; stir to a stiff batter. Spread over 
chicken and bake. 

CHICKEN CROQUETTES— One pint of chopped, cooked 
chicken; salt, pepper, 3 tablespoons butter, 1 of flour, 1 cup 
milk, 2 eggs, 1 pint bread or cracker crumbs. Heat the milk 
and add other ingredients, leaving out eggs. Cook for 2 min- 
utes, or until heated through. Add well beaten eggs, and let 
cool. Shape, dip in eggs, roll in crumbs, fry in hot fat to a 
golden brown. 

ESCALLOPED CHICKEN— Cook chicken well done, sea- 
son well while cooking. Pick from bones and shred. Cover 
bottom of baking dish with cracker crumbs, then a layer of 
chicken dotted with pieces of butter, making alternate layers 
until dish is fifled. Pour over this stock until soaked. Slice 
hard boiled eggs over top, or beat an egg into the stock. Bake 
30 minutes. 

SMOTHERED CHICKEN— Cut into small pieces; flour 
and season ; have a dripping pan with hot butter and lard. Put 
in chicken; cook a minute, turn; put in 14 cup of water 
and place in oven. Cover tightly and cook one hour, or until 
tender. 

WILD FOWL AND WILD GAME of all kinds should stand 
in soda water over night. In the morning, put in cold, strong 
salt water until time to be used. 



DAINTIES, SALADS AND CLEVER HINTS 11 



^ Sauces and Dressing for Meats ^ 

MINT SAUCE — Fifteen mint leaves bruised and shredded, 
1 cup hot vinegar, 1 spoon sugar, 1 teaspoon salt ; 1/4 cup sweet 
cream just as sent to table. Beat well. 

MINT SAUCE — Fifteen mint leaves crushed or torn in 
bits, 2 spoons butter in frying pan, hot, but not enough to 
brown butter ; lay in mint leaves, stir and toss but do not cook, 
pour in i/^ cup vinegar, 1 tablespoon sugar. Have beaten two 
eggs, whites and yolks together. Add a dash of paprika, pour 
hot mixture over, beating rapidly. Serve hot with game, mut- 
ton, lamb or fresh fish. 

PARSLEY RELISH— One bunch of finely minced parsley, 
1 grated onion mixed with I/2 cup mayonnaise. Fish, lamb, or 
game. 

SAUCES FOR MEAT 

Roast Beef — Tomato sauce, horse-radish, mustard, cran- 
berries and pickles. 

Roast Pork — Apple sauce, cranberry sauce. 

Roast Veal — Tomato, mushroom, onion and cranberry. 

Roast Mutton — Currant jelly, caper sauce. 

Roast Lamb — Mint sauce. 

Boiled Mutton — Onion sauce, caper sauce. 

Roast Turkey — Cranberry sauce, currant jelly. 

Venison or Wild Duck — Cranberry sauce, currant jelly, 
warmed with port wine. 

Roast Goose — Apple and cranberry sauce, grape or cur- 
rant jelly. 

Fish — White cream sauce, lemon sauce. 

OYSTER DRESSING FOR TURKEY— One pound bread 
crumbs, add 2 stalks of celery, chopped fine; 14 pound butter, 
melted; salt and pepper to taste; add to this 2 quarts of 
oysters, strained from their liquor. When oysters are mixed 
with the bread add enough of the liquor to moisten filling well. 

DRESSING FOR FOWLS AND MEATS— Cut dry bread 
in small pieces, season with salt, pepper, butter, pinch of sage, 
and a small onion, cut fine ; put all together. Pour over it a lit- 
tle hot water. Cover for a few moments. Mix well before 
using. Mashed potatoes added to this is fine, or any left-overs, 
such as eggs, beans and corn, can be used. 



12 DAINTIES, SALADS AND CLEVER HINTS 



V e getables 



MASHED POTATOES— Potatoes should be put in boiling 
water and salted. When done add cream and butter, and beat 
till light. Leave out the pepper, that can be added when eaten. 

CRUZEN BAKED POTATOES— Select even-sized pota- 
toes. Clean with vegetable brush. Let stand awhile in cold 
water. Wipe dry, rub well with lard, roll in salt and bake. 

POTATOES ON THE HALF SHELL— Select large, round 
potatoes. Clean and bake ; when done, cut in halves, scrape out, 
mash, add butter and season. Return to shells. Brush over 
with melted butter. Return to oven ; brown. Serve piping hot. 

FRIED POTATOES— Peel, wash and drain, slice thin. 
Fry in hot lard. Turn a time or two. Cover and turn often. 
Season when done. Return, cover a moment. Serve in hot dish. 

POTATO AU GRATIN— One pint cold diced potatoes, 1 
large green pepper chopped. Melt 3 tablespoons butter and stir 
in 3 tablespoons flour, add 2 cups milk, cook until thick and 
add potatoes and peppers, and level teaspoon salt. Turn into 
baking dish, cover with grated cheese, put into oven until 
brown. 

CREAMED POTATOES— One quart rich milk, when this 
comes to a boil put in butter the size of a large egg and about 
3 cups of potatoes cut in dice. Stir in cornstarch dissolved in 
milk enough to thicken, season to taste. 

SCALLOPED POTATOES— Pare and slice potatoes very 
thin, butter baking pan, place potatoes in layers about an inch 
and a half thick and between each layer sprinkle salt and pep- 
per and a small chunk of butter, cover with milk and bake until 
potatoes are done — about forty minutes in moderate oven. 

CANDIED SWEET POTATOES— Peel and boil done. Melt 
together in a frying pan , lump of butter size of an egg and a 
tablespoon brown sugar. Put in potatoes and turn till brown. 

SWEET POTATO CROQUETTES— Pare sweet potatoes, 
as many as are needed, and cook in salt water; when done 
mash , add a little salt and pepper, and small lump of butter. 
Form into croquettes. When cold dip in egg and bread crumbs ; 
fry in hot lard. 



DAINTIES, SALADS AND CLEVER HINTS 13 

CREAMED CABBAGE— Chop fine as much cabbage as 
will be needed and boil in salted water until tender. To 1 quart 
of boiled cabbage add cream with butter as large as a walnut, 
salt and pepper. 

STUFFED CABBAGE— Cut out the stalk end of a head of 
cabbage, leaving a hollow shell. Chop two pounds of uncooked 
beef with a slice of bacon and an onion. Add one cup bread 
crumbs soaked and wrung dry , one beaten egg, salt and pepper. 
Shape into balls and arrange in the cabbage. Strips of sweet 
pepper may be added. Steam until the cabbage is tender. 

BAKED CABBAGE— Chop fine half small cold boiled cab- 
bage, add to it a well beaten egg, 2 teaspoons of cream or milk, 
and the same of melted butter, season to taste, mix thoroughly 
and bake 15 or 20 minutes. 

CAULIFLOWER — Soak cauliflower two hours in salted 
water, head downward. Then put in boiling water, boil until 
done, drain. Take one cup fine bread crumbs and brown in two 
tablespoons of butter, pour over cauliflower just before serving. 

MASHED TURNIPS— To 6 medium sized turnips, well 
cooked, add 2 cooked potatoes while hot, mash, season with salt 
and pepper, add a little cream and butter, and beat thoroughly. 

CREAMED TURNIPS— Slice into small squares, cook 
thoroughly in salt water, when done drain off the water and 
add a cup of cream, 1 tablespoon butter mixed with a table- 
spoon of flour, pepper, let boil and serve hot. 

ESCALLOPED CORN— Butter a baking dish and in the 
bottom of dish put a layer of cracker crumbs, a little salt, 
pepper, dots of butter, then a layer of canned corn, salt, pepper 
and butter and so on. Have cracker crumbs for last layer. 
Then over all pour a cup of milk. Bake % of an hour in mod- 
erately hot oven until a light brown. 

CORN FRITTERS— One can of corn, 2 eggs, 1/2 cup flour, 
1 teaspoon baking powder, salt. Fry in hot butter or bacon fat. 

STUFFED TOMATOES— Cut off stem end. Take out 
seeds and pulp. Add well seasoned bread crumbs to pulp. Fill 
tomatoes. Sprinkle dry crumbs on top. Bake till quite brown. 

CREAMED TOMATOES ON TOAST— Peel, cook done; 
add seasoning, add a little flour rubbed smooth in cream. Pour 
over thin slices of well buttered toast. 



14 DAINTIES, SALADS AND CLEVER HINTS 

MM o a I a a s mM 

WALDORF SALAD— Chop celery, apples and nuts. Mix 
with rather sweet salad dressing. Serve on lettuce leaves. 

RIBBON SALAD — Chop separately cooked beets, carrots, 
potatoes and raw cabbage. Add onion to cabbage. Season. 
Lay in ribbons on long tray. Serve with mayonnaise. 

PERFECTION SALAD— One package gelatine, 1/2 cup 
"scant" vinegar, V^ cup cold water, % cups sugar, 1/2 teaspoon 
salt, juice of 1 lemon, 1 pint of boiling water, 2 cups celery 
diced, 1 cup fresh shredded cabbage, 1/4 of a red pepper or 
pimento cut fine. Soak gelatine in cold water, add lemon juice, 
vinegar, sugar, salt and the boiling water, strain. When it 
begins to set, add the ingredients and chill. Serve cold from 
sweet pepper cones or lettuce leaves with or without mayon- 
naise dressing. 

CRESS SALAD— Chop 1 bunch of cress, 1 stalk of celery, 
1 onion, mix with mayonnaise; place in mound on lettuce 
leaves, sprinkle chopped nuts over top. 

TOMATO SALAD— Cut a slice from stem end of smooth, 
firm tomatoes, scoop out center, rejecting seeds, mix the meaty 
part of tomato with finely minced cucumber which has stood 
in strong, salt water and is thoroughly chilled, season with 
pepper, six drops of onion juice, a pinch of celery seed, fill 
tomato shells, placing on top a spoonful of thick mayonnaise, 
sprinkle minced parsley over all. 

STUFFED TOMATO SALAD— Scoop out the seeds after 
cutting slice off the top of firm ripe tomato, chop 1 onion, 
1 stalk celery, 1 hard boiled egg, mix with mayonnaise dress- 
ing, fill tomatoes. Set each tomato in center of sliced green 
pepper which makes a pretty scalloped ring. Place slice of 
hard boiled egg on top. Serve cold. 

LOBSTER SALAD— Chop one head of cabbage, 1 stalk of 
celery, grate 1 onion, salt and white pepper to taste, i/^ spoon 
Tobasco sauce. Separate the coral in one can of lobster, mix 
lobster meat with cabbage, etc., lightly stiring in one cup may- 
onnaise dressing over the top sprigs of light celery with the 
lobster coral as garnish. 

COMBINATION SALAD— Slice firm tomatoes, lay on bed 
of bleached lettuce hearts ; lay a star of asparagus tips from 



DAINTIES, SALADS AND CLEVER HINTS 15 

center to edge of bowl, butts to the center. Cover the butts 
with a mound of heavy mayonnaise, sprinkling parsley over 
top. Lay between asparagus tips little dice of minced onion 
and thin slices of tiny radishes. Serve very cold. 

FRUIT SALAD — Fill large peaches with ripe red rasp- 
berries. Serve with whipped cream and blanched almonds on 
lettuce. 

CHICKEN SALAD— Remove the skin from cold chicken ; 
cut with scissors into small pieces; dissolve in a little cold 
stock 6 spoons gelatine, add 1 pint boiling stock free from oil , 
strain, and when nearly cold and beginning to thicken, sprinkle 
parsley and minced chicken lightly through the jelly. Set to 
chill. Serve in broken pieces of lettuce hearts. 

FRUIT SALAD IN CUPS— Scoop out centers and seeds 
from small nutmeg cantaloupes. Chill thoroughly; take otf 
rind, fill cantaloupes with strawberries and diced pineapple well 
sweetened. Chill for 4 hours. Serve with whipped cream in a 
wreath of cress or lettuce hearts. 

ITALIAN SALAD — Fresh tomatoes, sliced; celery, green 
peppers and a little chopped onion. Serve with French dressing. 

CANTALOUPE CERISE — Scoop centers from cantaloupes 
and fill with ripe red raspberries sweetened. The juice of one 
orange and a heaping spoon of whipped cream with three can- 
died cherries dropped on cream, chill. 

PEPPER LILIES — Cut sweet peppers in petal shaped 
points leaving them joined at the stem end, remove pulp and 
seeds, make a ball of cottage cheese into which has been mixed 
the tips of peppers finely minced and l^ cup cream, rice yolks 
of hard boiled eggs and sprinkle over cheese ball, press pep- 
per petals gently but not very closely to side of ball, set on 
bleached lettuce hearts. 

ORANGE BASKETS— Cut out piece of each side of 
orange cup leaving strip for handle over the top, take out the 
pulp, mix with chopped pineapple, a sprinkling of blanched 
almonds, 3 candied cherries to each orange, sweeten to taste, 
fill shells, put on spoonful whipped cream, pierce a hole through 
the handle and run stems of two or three violets with s small 
spray of fern through each handle. 



16 DAINTIES, SALADS AND CLEVER HINTS 

CUCUMBER CANOES— Cut fresh cucumbers in half 
lengthwise, scoop out the inside carefully as near skin as you 
can and leave a neat firm boat, put boats on the ice. Chop 
cucumber meat and soak one hour in salted ice water, drain dry, 
mix with cup of chopped, mixed nuts, and two spoons minced 
parsley, 1 spoon grated onion, mix with mayonnaise, fill boats, 
lay in bed of nasturtium flowers and leaves and serve very cold. 

CERISE APPLES — Pare core and steam 1 dozen apples; 
make rich syrup, add rose fruit coloring; put apples in syrup, 
few at a time to color; lift out. Serve by placing apples in 
mound of whipped cream. 

FROZEN TOMATO SALAD— Strain 2 quart cans of to- 
matoes through a colander. To this add 1 cup each of finely 
chopped celery and cucumbers, 1 large green sweet pepper 
chopped, 1 tablespoon each of salt and sugar, 1 teaspoon of 
paprika and grated horseradish. Mix till smooth, add 1 cup 
each of boiled mayonnaise and whipped cream. Pour in freezer, 
leaving out dasher, and pack in ice and salt two hours. Serve 
for first course or as a sala'"" 



Salad Dressings 



MAYONNAISE — One large tablespoon of flour worked 
smooth in cold water until i/^ cup has been used, add salt, 
sugar, red pepper, well beaten yolks of two eggs, and butter 
size of an egg. Cook till thick. Stir continually; when done 
add 1/^ cup of vinegar and cook a moment longer. A pinch of 
curry powder added when cold gives it a nut flavor. This is 
the foundation for all cooked mayonnaise. When used for 
fruits, make it sweeter, and leave out curry powder. This will 
keep indefinitely if kept cool. 

OIL AND VINEGAR DRESSING— Two tablespoons olive 
oil, 4 of vinegar; season with sugar, salt and paprika. 

FRENCH DRESSING— Beat yolks of four eggs with 1 
teaspoon salt, till thick; add drop by drop 2 spoons olive oil, 
and 1 cup vinegar, as dressing gets thicker while stirring in oil 
add vinegar to thin; lastly, stir in 1 spoonful onion juice, 2 
spoons sugar, 14 red pepper and 1 tablespoon mustard; will 
keep a year. 



DAINTIES, SALADS AND CLEVER HINTS 17 

^ Sandwiches ^ 

DATE SANDWICHES— On buttered slices of Boston 
brown bread, spread fresh dates that have been washed and 
seeds removed. These are delicious. 

SANDWICHES — Use fine grained bread one day old, but- 
ter bread before cutting from loaf; cut thin, shape each slice 
with fancy cutter, cut in oblongs or triangles as desired, after 
filling with mixture desired, press slices firmly together, wrap 
in a moist napkin or parafine paper until ready to use. 

CHEESE SANDWICHES No. 1— Chop fine 1 cup of any 
nut liked, add salt and paprika, 1 cup of grated cheese, with 
sweet cream enough to make smooth. Graham or rye bread 
cut thin. 

CHEESE SANDWICHES No. 2— One cup of cream cheese 
grated, enough currant or plum jelly to make paste. When 
spread, sprinkle chopped and browned peanuts over slices, 
press firmly together. Whole wheat bread. 

CHEESE SANDWICHES No. 3— Grate 1 cup mild cheese, 
1 cup chopped dates, 1/2 cup whipped cream. White wheat 
bread. 

SPANISH SANDWICH No. 4— One cup parmesan cheese, 
f finely chopped onion top, 1 finely chopped red pepper, cream 
to make smooth. Rye bread. 

CHEESE SANDWICH No. 5— Grate 1 cup of cheese, add 
1 spoon butter, salt and cayenne, 1 teaspoon mustard, 1/2 tea- 
spoon Worcestershire sauce, vinegar to spread smoothly. Rye 
or graham bread. 

CHEESE SANDWICH No. 6— Grate 1 cup of cheese, mix 
1 tablespoon carraway seed, 1 teaspoon onion juice, 1 finely 
chopped red pepper, cream to make paste. Rye bread. 

COTTAGE CHEESE SANDWICH No. 7— One cup of cot- 
tage cheese, 1 cup chopped peanuts, cream to spread. Whole 
wheat bread. 

COTTAGE CHEESE SANDWICH No. 8— One cup cheese, 
1/2 cup chopped parsley, salt, cayenne, 1 cup cottage cheese, 1 
cup cut, not chopped dates, 14 cup heavy sweet cream, mix to 
smooth paste ; fill between buttered slices of graham bread. 



18 DAINTIES, SALADS AND CLEVER HINTS 

CHOCOLATE NUT SANDWICH— Chop fine 1 cup of 
dates, grate 2 bars of chocolate, mix with dates, add enough 
lemon juice to form heavy paste, spread on whole wheat bread, 
sprinkle chopped nuts thickly over filling, press a buttered slice 
of bread firmly on the top. 

FIG SANDWICH — One cup chopped figs, juice of 1 orange, 
1/^ cup chopped hickory nuts. Brown bread. 

HORSERADISH SANDWICH— To 1/2 cup of mayonnaise, 
add 1/^ cup horse-radish, place among marinated lettuce leaves 
on buttered bread, spread with mixture, lay a slice of tomato 
on each slice, sprinkle with salt, pepper and paprika, cover with 
buttered slice, press closely. 

CELERY SANDWICH— One cup chopped celery, 1 cup 
minced chicken, 1/4, cup sweet cream, season highly with salt 
and pepper. Brown bread. 

NASTURTIUM SANDWICHES— Mince finely, buds, fresh 
new stems and leaves, with some fresh green seeds of Nastur- 
tium, mix with mayonnaise, lay a flower on the filling with 
fresh small leaves, press on cover of thin white bread. 

CHICKEN SANDWICHES— Chop 1 cup cold chicken, 1 
cup almonds (blanched), 1 green pepper, blend with sweet 
cream, season highly. Wheat bread. 

CUCUMBER SANDWICHES— Drain and dry thinly sliced 
cucumbers, which have stood in salted ice water 1 hour, be sure 
they are dry. Marinate in olive oil 10 minutes, sprinkle thin 
slices of bread with salt and cayenne pepper, spread with 
cucumber, wet with the oil, cover with bread. 

CRESS SANDWICHES— One cup chopped cress, 1 tea- 
spoon chopped chives, 10 chopped olives mixed with mayon- 
naise, spread on brown bread. 

NUT SANDWICH FILLING— Blanch 1 cup almonds, 1 
cup peanuts, 1 cup filbert, add 1 cup pecans. Grind three times 
through fine meat cutter, the last time adding I/2 cup water 
and beating thoroughly adding a little salt. Pot and keep cool ; 
the day you make the sandwiches beat in 1 quart of heavy 
cream and add 1 pound of sugar. 

This will fill 100 Sandwiches. 



DAINTIES, SALADS AND CLEVER HINTS 19 



Bread and Rolls 



CREAM BREAD— Put into a pan 21/2 quarts of flour, 
tablespoon each of salt, sugar and lard. Work all together 
thoroughly; have 2 cakes of compressed yeast dissolved in 
lukewai-m water, add this, and enough of equal parts of luke- 
warm water and milk to use up flour, work till smooth ; mould 
and put in warm, greased pan or jar to rise. When light, work 
very little. Cut in pieces. Mould into loaves. Put into greased 
tins. Let rise (not too light) , bake 35 minutes. This can be 
mixed in the morning and baked by noon. When made with 
compressed yeast, bread should be worked very little. Other 
yeast requires much more working. 

WHOLE WHEAT BREAD— One pint milk, 1 pint water, 
both warm ; 1 cup syrup, 1 teaspoon of salt, 1 teacup of white 
flour, 1 cake of yeast in winter and % in summer, and about 
2 quarts of whole wheat flour. It should be a stiff batter; 
cover and let stand over night. In the morning stir well and 
turn into 3 good sized bread pans without kneading. Bake 
when light from % of an hour to an hour in a moderate oven. 

SALT RISING BREAD— Scald a pint of water and stir 
into it 1/2 teaspoon of salt and add a little at a time, enough 
flour to make a stiff" batter or a soft dough. Beat for fifteen 
minutes, then cover and set in a warm place over night, or 
eight hours. Into 2 cups of lukewarm milk stir a teaspoon of 
salt and add enough flour to make a stiff batter ; then add to it 
the risen dough. Knead well, adding enough flour to make an 
ordinary dough. Make into loaves and set these to rise. When 
light, bake. 

BOSTON BROWN BREAD— Two cups sour milk, 1/2 cup 
New Orleans molasses, V2 cup graham flour, II/2 cups corn 
meal, 2 small teaspoons soda, 1 salt, steam 3 hours; bake 10 
minutes. 

CORN BREAD — Two cups white flour, 2 cups com meal, 
1 cup sugar, 2 teaspoons salt, 2 cups sour milk, 2 tablespoons 
butter, 2 level teaspoons soda. Drippings may be used. 

NUT BREAD — Four cups flour, 2 cups sweet milk, 1 cup 
chopped nuts, 1/2 cup sugar, 4 teaspoons baking powder, 1/2 tea- 
spoon salt. Mix dry ingredients, add milk, then put into bak- 
ing pan, let rise 20 minutes. Bake 45 minutes. 



20 DAINTIES, SALADS AND CLEVER HINTS 

GRAHAM BREAD — Two cups lukewarm water, 2 cups 
graham flour, i/4 cake yeast, stir together and set over night. 
In the morning add a little shortening and stiften with white 
flour so it can be well kneaded. Raise once and mold. 

QUICK GRAHAM BREAD— Two cups sour milk, 3 cups 
graham flour, 3 tablespoons sugar or less, 1 teaspoon soda, salt, 
moderate oven. 

GINGER BREAD— Cream 1/2 cup sugar with 1/2 cup but- 
ter, 2 eggs well beaten, 1 cup molasses, teaspoon each, ginger, 
cinnamon and cloves ; 1 cup boiling water, 2 teaspoons soda dis- 
solved in a little water, 2i/^ cups sifted flour with 1 teaspoon 
baking powder, pinch salt. Bake 1 hour in slow oven. 

BRAN BREAD — Two cups white flour, 2 teaspoons baking 
powder, 4 cups bran, 2 tablespoons molasses, 2 cups milk. Stir 
into stiff dough. Bake in bread tin, slow oven. Cook 75 minutes. 

PARKERHOUSE ROLLS— One cake yeast, 1 tablespoon 
sugar, lard size of an egg, 1 pint milk, melt lard in milk, make 
stiff batter, let rise, mix and knead thoroughly, let rise. Roll 
out an inch thick, cut with large biscuit cutter, spread with 
melted butter, fold together, let rise very light. Bake in quick 
oven, serve hot. 

LIGHT ROLLS — Three tablespoons butter, 1 teaspoon 
salt, V2 cup lukewarm water, 6 cups sifted flour, 1 pint milk, 1 
tablespoon sugar, 1 cake yeast. Scald the milk and pour over 
the sugar, salt and butter. Allow it to cool and when it is luke- 
warm, add yeast dissolved in lukewarm water and then add 3 
cups of flour, beat hard, cover and let rise until it is a frothing 
mass. Then add 3 more cups flour, let it rise again until it is 
twice its original bulk, then place it on your kneading board. 
Knead lightly and then roll it out i/^ inch thick. Take a biscuit 
cutter and cut out the rolls. Brush each piece with butter, fold 
and press the edges together and put them on a greased pan 1 
inch apart. Let them rise until very light. Bake in hot oven 
15 minutes. This recipe makes 3 dozen rolls. 

TEA BISCUIT — One quart flour, 3 teaspoons baking pow- 
der, small teaspoon salt, tablespoon lard. Mix with sweet milk to 
make soft dough. Knead little as possible. Bake in quick oven. 

LUNCH BISCUIT— One pint flour, 3 tablespoons butter, 
2 eggs, 3 tablespoons sugar, 3 teaspoons baking powder. Mix 
lightly and bake in quick oven. 



22 DAINTIES, SALADS AND CLEVER HINTS 

GRAHAM GEMS — One cup graham flour, 1 cup white 
flour, 1 beaten egg, 2 teaspoons baking powder, 1 teaspoon salt, 
1 tablespoon butter, melted, 1 cup milk. Mix dry ingredients, 
then add milk and egg. Add melted butter last. 

DATE MUFFINS— One-third cup butter, 1/4 cup sugar, 1 
egg, % cup of milk, 2 cups flour, 3 level teaspoons baking pow- 
der, 1/4 teaspoon salt, I/2 pound dates. Cream butter and sugar, 
add egg, milk and flour, baking powder and salt. Beat all well ; 
add dates — stoned and cut in small pieces; bake in hot, well 
buttered muffin tins. 

BRAN MUFFINS — One cup molasses, 1 cup milk, 2 cups 
bran flour, 1 cup flour, 1 level teaspoon soda, pinch salt. Bake 
in gem pans. 

MUFFINS OR POPOVERS— Three scant tablespoons 
sugar, % teaspoon salt, 6 level teaspoons baking powder, 3 cups 
flour, 3 tablespoons melted butter, 3 eggs, II/2 cups milk; sift 
three times the dry ingredients, then add eggs well beaten, 
and lastly milk and melted butter. Bake in moderate oven 25 
minutes. These are delicious. 

^ - Cakes ^ 

A FEW SUGGESTIONS IN CAKE MAKING 

If you would have really good cake, these things are worth 
remembering. Use a standard measuring cup. Swans' Down 
Flour and its measurements. For Dr. Price's Cream Baking 
Powder, get the finest granulated sugar and sift several times ; 
measure flour after each sifting ; put baking powder in last half 
of flour used. Cream the butter with your hand, (the heat 
from the hand keeps it the right consistency) ; add sugar, little 
at a time ; keep the batter creamy. Add a little flour and milk, 
and keep a regular beating — always the same movement. When 
ready to fold in whites, beat them to a stiff froth, never stop- 
ping till folded in batter, using the egg beater. Do not stir. 
Use quick oven. Oil paper, slightly greased, and placed in bot- 
tom of pans is the better plan. Keep cakes in warm place when 
taken from oven. 

To keep cakes from sticking, rub pans with lard, dust with 
flour, shaking off all that will fall when pan is rapped sharply 
with spoon. Cake will never stick if this is done. 



24 DAINTIES, SALADS AND CLEVER HINTS 

TO PREVENT CAKE FROM FALLING— When pan is 

ready for oven, drop on table once or twice, raising pan a foot 
above table. Drop flatly forcing out bubbles of air. 

ANGEL FOOD— The whites of 11 eggs, II/2 cups of 
granulated sugar, 1 cup pastry flour, 1 teaspoon cream of tar- 
tar, 1 teaspoon vanilla. Sift flour and sugar separately 5 times, 
add sugar and flour a little at a time to the eggs; bake in a 
pan which has never been greased. Bake 45 minutes. 

DEVILS FOOD — Two cups dark brown sugar creamed 
with 1/^ cup butter, yolks of 3 eggs, 1 cup milk, add one cake of 
Walter Baker's sweet chocolate grated, 21/2 cups flour into 
which has been sifted 2 teaspoons baking powder, 1 very small 
teaspoon soda dissolved in a little water; bake in two layers, 
put together with caramel icing. 

DELICIOUS LOAF CAKE— One and a half cups of sugar, 
% cup butter. Work these together until they form a cream ; 
add the whites of 5 eggs beaten to a stiff froth. Stir and 
beat until light as foam; add 1/2 cup of cornstarch which 
has been dissolved in a little sweet milk. Stir in not quite 
% of a cup of sweet milk and 214 cups sifted flour, 2 
teaspoons of baking powder and 1 of vanilla. Ice with boiled 
icing flavored with lemon. Do not use same flavoring in the 
cake as in the icing. Bake 4 days before using, when it will be 
rich enough to melt in your mouth. Moderate oven. Never fails. 

MINNEHAHA CAKE— One and one-half cups sugar 
creamed with 1/4 cup butter, V2 cup milk, 2 cups flour, 2 tea- 
spoons baking powder, whites of 6 eggs ; bake in layers. For 
filling, boil 1 cup of sugar, 1 cup chopped raisins, 1 cup hickory 
nuts in I/2 cup sweet cream thick enough to spread. 

MAPLE FILLING FOR MINNEHAHA CAKE— Boil 1 
cup maple sugar until it waxes, stir in 2 tablespoons butter 
beating rapidly, spread quickly over cake and between layers. 
Delicious. 

FEATHER CAKE— One egg, 1 cup sugar, 2 tablespoons 
melted butter, V2 cup milk, 1 cup flour, 1 teaspoon baking pow- 
der; vanilla. Eat warm. 

OLD-FASHIONED FRUIT CAKE— Two cups flour, 1 cup 
brown sugar, 1 cup sour milk, 2 eggs, 1/2 cup butter, 1 teaspoon 
soda, 1 cup raisins. Spice to taste. Bake slowly 1 hour. 



26 DAINTIES, SALADS AN D CLEVER HINTS 

CREAM SPONGE CAKE— Six eggs, their weight in pow- 
dered sugar, 1/2 their weight in flour, 1/2 teaspoon baking pow- 
der, pinch of salt, grated rind of 1 orange ; beat egg yolks and 
sugar till thick, sift in the mixed flour, salt and baking powder. 
Mix lightly ; add orange rind and stiffly whipped whites. Fold 
them in lightly ; bake in 2 shallow pans in moderate oven. Put 
together with cream filling flavored with orange. 

SPONGE CAKE — One cup sugar, 2 eggs well beaten, 1 
teaspoon baking powder sifted with 1 cup flour. Stir well to- 
gether. Then put in 1/3 cup boiling water or milk, flavor with 
lemon or vanilla and bake quickly in a buttered tin. This is best 
baked in a pan with a tube in the center. 

BLACK CAKE — One cup sugar, 1 cup sour milk, l^ cup 
butter, 2 cups flour, 1 cup raisins, 1 teaspoon soda, 1 teaspoon 
cloves, 1/4 nutmeg. 

CITRON POUND CAKE— Three-quarters pound butter, 
rubbed to a cream with 1 pound of sugar, add first the beaten 
yolks of 8 eggs, then 1 pound flour, the beaten whites of the 
eggs and lastly 11/4 pounds thinly sliced citron, slightly 
dredged with flour. Bake li/o or 2 hours. 

WHITE FRUIT CAKE— One cup butter, 2 cups sugar, 1 
cup milk, 214 cups flour, 3 teaspoons baking powder, 7 eggs, 
whites only, 1 pound raisins, 1 pound figs, 1 pound dates, 1 
pound almonds, l^ pound citron, no spice. Blanch almonds and 
cut them in halves ; seed raisins and dates and cut them fine. 
Dust with flour before adding to cake mixture. Cut figs and 
citron fine. 

FRUIT CAKE — One cup butter, 2 cups sugar, 3 cups 
flour, 4 eggs, 1 cup milk. Mix as you would a cup cake and 
add 1 pound of raisins, 1 pound currants, Y^ pound citron, 1 
heaping teaspoon each of ground cloves, cinnamon, allspice, 
1 teaspoon soda, 2 of cream tartar, grated rind and juice of 1 
orange. This makes 2 cakes and should be baked in tube 
pans. Bake in a moderate oven for an hour and a half. 

WHITE FRUIT CAKE— One cup butter, IV2 cups confec- 
tioner's sugar, 3 cups sifted flour, Vv'hites of 6 eggs, 1 wine 
glass white wine, 6 ounces citron, cut fine, V2 pound blanched 
almonds, chopped, 1 cup prepared cocoanut, i/o pound white 
raisins, 3 level teaspoons baking powder, make in 2 loaf cakes. 
Bake 40 minutes. 



28 DAINTIES, SALADS AND CLEVER HINTS 

OLD-FASHIONED POUND CAKE— This is the recipe 
used before the time of baking powder, when beating of the 
eggs was depended upon for the lightness of cakes. 

Make Ready: 1 pound of dried and sifted flour, 1 pound 
of fine granulated sugar, dried ; 1 pound of the very nicest but- 
ter in a middle-sized bowl ; 10 eggs, yolks and whites in sepa- 
rate bowls for beating; 1 wine glass of brandy, 1 teaspoon of 
powdered mace, or II/2 of nutmeg, 1 saltspoon of salt, large 
mixing bowl, 2 sheet-iron loaf -pans, buttered ; cream the butter 
in large bowl, adding spice. Beat the yolks to a thick froth. 
Beat whites to perfect stiffness; beat yolks and whites to- 
gether. Spill the sugar to the eggs, beating well. Put a small 
part of the butter, stir and beat to a light batter as expedi- 
ously as possible, adding the brandy as you do so. Turn the 
eggs and sugar in. Beat lightly, then add the rest of the 
flour, and beat well. Fill pans two-thirds full, and watch as 
sponge cake. Always mix spices beforehand so as to add them 
at one beating. Fruits may be added. Take flour for dreging 
from your measure for the cake. 

DELICIOUS WHITE CAKE— Two-thirds cup butter, 11/2 
cups sugar, 1 cup lukewarm water, whites of 5 eggs, 2I/4, cups 
flour, 2 teaspoons baking powder (not heaping). Beat butter 
to a cream, add sugar, little at a time, add water, little at a 
time, 2 cups flour (do not sift), whites of eggs, l^ cup flour 
and baking powder sifted together, 1 teaspoon each of lemon 
and vanilla. Bake in two layers, with boiled icing or marsh- 
mallow filling. 

ONE EGG CAKE— One egg, 1/2 cup butter, I1/2 cups 
sugar, pinch of salt, small cup of milk, 2 even teaspoons bak- 
ing powder, cream butter and sugar, add egg, and beat, then 
milk, flour enough to make the right consistency. Flavor ; bake 
in moderate oven : bake in pan with tube or in layers ; part can 
be darkened with cinnamon and make into a marble cake. 

LADY BALTIMORE CAKE— Cream 1/2 Poimd of butter 
with 1 pound of sifted granulated sugar; separate yolks and 
whites of 8 eggs ; stir in yolks one at a time, beating well after 
each ; add 1 pound of flour, sifted four times, with 4 teaspoons 
baking powder alternately with 1 cup of milk ; add 1 teaspoon 
cf almond extract and fold in the stifly beaten whites. Make 
boiled icing ; to this add 1 cup of chopped seeded raisins, 1 cup 



DAINTIES, SALADS A ND CLEVER HINTS 29 

chopped pecan meats, and 1 teaspoon vanilla. Spread between 
layers and on top. When cold, ice all over with white icing. 



E g g less Cakes 



APPLE SAUCE CAKE— One and one-half cups apple 
sauce, 1 cup sugar, 2 cups flour, 1 cup seedless raisins, 1/2 cup 
butter, 1 tablespoon hot water, 2 teaspoons of soda, 1 teaspoon 
cinnamon, 1 teaspoon cloves. An elegant cake. Make apple 
sauce as for table use, strained and sweetened. 

EGOLESS FRUIT CAKE— One and one-half teacups of 
light brown sugar, 3 level cups of flour, 2 teaspoons baking 
powder, 1 cup sour milk, in which has been dissolved 1 small 
teaspoon soda, V2 cup butter creamed with sugar, I/2 teaspoon 
each of cloves, cinnamon and nutmeg, 1 cup chopped citron 
dredged with flour. 

EGOLESS COFFEE CAKE— One cup molasses, 1 cup cold 
strong coffee, 1/2 pound citron, II/2 brown sugar, 5 cups 
flour, 1 teaspoonful each cinnamon, cloves and soda dissolved 
in coffee, dash salt, 1 cup butter, 1 pound seedless raisins, 1 
pound currants, cup nuts, 1 cup dates and figs mixed, 10 gum 
drops. Elegant Xmas cake. Make 3 weeks before Xmas. 

INEXPENSIVE FRUIT CAKE— EGGLESS— One cup 

sugar white or brown, 1 scant V2 cup of shortening, 1 cup sour 
milk, 1 teaspoonful of soda in milk, ly^ cups flour, 1 teaspoon- 
ful ground cinnamon, I/2 teaspoonful each of cloves and all- 
spice; fruit, 14 cup each currants, raisins, citron and figs if 
desired, rolled in 14 cup flour and 1 teaspoon baking powder. 

DOUGH CAKE — Three cups bread dough, 1 cup butter, 2 
cups sugar, 1 pound raisins, 1 teaspoon soda, dissolved in 1 
tablespoon hot water, salt, 2 eggs, 1 cup English walnuts, mix 
thoroughly, let rise. Bake slowly an hour or longer. This 
is most excellent. 

COOKIES — One cup of butter, II/2 cups sugar, 3 eggs, 
1 even teaspoon soda in 1 tablespoon sweet milk, pinch of salt, 
teaspoon vanilla, roll out thin and as stiff as flour can make 
them. The one mistake usually made is that you will not 
make them as stiff as you can. However, roll in flour till not 
another bit will stick. These are the best ever and will keep 
six weeks. If you hide them. 



80 DAINTIES, SALADS AND CLEVER HINTS 

CREAM PUFFS— One cup of water, 1/2 cup butter, boil to- 
gether. Stir in while boiling 1 cup of flour dry. Then take 
from the fire and allow it to cool. Add 3 eggs not beaten. Mix 
well and drop on buttered tins and bake 25 minutes Avoid 
opening the oven. Cream: One cup milk, 1 egg, y^ cup of 
sugar, 2 tablespoons flour. Beat eggs and sugar together, add 
flour and stir them in the milk while boiling. Flavor with 
vanilla when cold. Open and fill. 

MARGUERITES— Beat whites of 2 eggs stiff, cup sugar, 
chopped nuts. Spread on wafer crackers, brown slightly. 

CRULLS — One cup sugar, 1 egg, 1 cup milk, salt, 2 tea- 
spoons baking powder, 1 scant tablespoon melted lard. Fry 
in deep, hot lard, and roll in confectioner's sugar. 

GINGER SNAPS — Four eggs, 1 cup brown sugar, 1 cup 
syrup, butter size of an egg, and a very little lard, 1 teaspoon 
ginger, 1 teaspoon soda, flour to suit, roll thin and bake in 
moderate oven. 

GINGER CAKE — One-half cup sugar, 14 cup molasses, 2 
eggs, 1 teaspoon soda, 1 cup boiling water, 1 tablespoon ginger, 
1 teaspoon cinnamon, 14 teaspoon salt, butter size of an egg, 
flour to thicken. 

JELLY ROLL — Beat for 15 minutes 4 eggs and 1 cup soft 
A sugar; then add 1 cup flour and 1 teaspoon baking powder. 
Spread in 2 large shallow tins. Bake in quick oven 5 minutes. 
When done put out in a wet towel. Spread bottom with jelly 
and roll. 

^ Frostings ^ 

BOILED FROSTING— All housekeepers have at times 
had the experience of having boiled frosting run off the cake. 
It is pretty hard to judge just when to remove the syrup from 
the fire. Use 1 cup of sugar, I/2 cup of water and boil till it 
jpins a thread. Pour slowly over the stiffly beaten whites of 
two eggs, beating with a spoon all the time while pouring. 
After beating thoroughly put into the double boiler and cook 
for two or three minutes. Flavor and it is ready to use. 

COOKED FROSTING WHICH WILL NOT CRACK— Boil 
till it threads, 2 cups granulated sugar, 1^4 cup water, 1 teaspoon 
cream tartar; pour over whites of 2 eggs beaten stiff, beat 



DAINTIES, SALADS AND CLEVER HINTS 31 

rapidly while pouring, and spread steadily till cool enough to 
set, when it should be as smooth as velvet. 

OSHELL FROSTING— One tablespoon butter (wash out 
salt with cold water), 3 tablespoons cream, I/2 teaspoon vine- 
gar, 114 cups powdered sugar, 1 teaspoon vanilla. Beat with 
spoon until smooth. 



I e s 



PIE CRUST — Cream together 2 rounding tablespoons lard, 
3 tablespoons boiling water, pinch of salt, and flour to roll. This 
is enough for 1 pie, and is the best of all. 

IN MAKING PIES— Remember to sprinkle a little flour 
and sugar on the bottom crust before putting in the fruit, or 
filling. Rub the edge of crust with water before crimping to- 
gether. If pies are set on hot stove after taking from the 
oven, they will become soggy. 

WHEN BAKING CUSTARD PIES put a pinch of baking 
powder in the custard. It makes it nice and firm. 

LEMON PIE — Do you know that a lemon pie is often both 
bitter and pasty ? Here is one which is delicious : 

For one pie take 1 thick slice of bread soaked and rubbed 
soft, 2 eggs, reserving the white of 1, spoonful butter, juice of 

1 lemon, a little grated rind, 4 spoons sugar, mix leaving enough 
water in bread to make soft filling; bake pie shells and fill 
with mixture hot, return to oven 10 minutes, frost and brown 
slightly. 

PUMPKIN PIE— One pint pumpkin, 1 pint milk, 2 or 3 
eggs, y^ teaspoon ginger, 1 teaspoon cinnamon, 14 teaspoon 
salt, 2/3 cup brown sugar, 2 tablespoons cream. Pour over top 

2 tablespoons cream. Bake in moderate oven until filling is 
firm and crust golden brown. 

CUSTARD PIE — Three eggs, 1 pint milk, l^ cup sugar, 1 
teaspoon lemon extract. Mix well and pour in crust. Do not 
bake crust first. Have oven hot at first. Bake till set. If 
the milk is scalded and cooled, the custard will not curdle. 

RAISIN PIE — One package raisins, 1 pint water, juice of 
1 lemon, boil 20 minutes, beat 1 cup sugar, 1 egg, 1 tablespoon 
flour, pinch salt, add this to boiling raisins and simmer 1 min- 
ute. Let cool. Two crusts. 



32 DAINTIES, SALADS AND CLEVER HINTS 

LEMON CREAM PIE— One cup milk, 1 cup sugar, 1 table- 
spoon cornstarch, cooked over hot water for at least 15 min- 
utes. One saltspoon salt, yolk of 3 eggs, whites of 1, grated 
rind and juice of 1 lemon. Fill the paste while hot and bake 
quick. Beat the whites of 2 eggs stiff, add slowly 2 table- 
spoons sifted powdered sugar, spread over pie, return to oven, 
dry and brown slowly. 

BANANA PIE — Three bananas for each pie. Have crusts 
baked, slice fruit in them, mix yolks of 4 eggs, 2 scant cups 
sugar, 2 cups of milk, 2 tablespoons cornstarch. Cook in dou- 
ble boiler till thick; pour over fruit. Beat stiff the whites of 
eggs and pour over top, return to oven and brown. 

CHERRY CREAM PIE— Bake pie crust, then take pint of 
cherries, pour off juice, put in baked crust and cover with 
cornstarch cream, made with 1 egg, 1 pint milk, 1 heaping 
tablespoon cornstarch, i/^ cup sugar, vanilla and a little salt, 
stir while cooking. On top of this put the white of egg, well 
beaten, brown in oven. 

^ Miscellaneous ^ 

MINCE MEAT — Four pounds lean, boiled beef, 8 pounds 
tart apples, 1 pound chopped suet, 1 pound brown sugar, 3 
pounds seeded raisins, 2 pounds cleaned and dried currants, i/^ 
pound citron, cut fine, 1 quart molasses, 2 quarts sweet cider, 
1 pint boiled cider, 1 tablespoon each of salt, pepper, mace, all- 
spice, cloves and 4 tablespoons cinnamon, 2 grated nutmegs, 
mix thoroughly and warm gradually until heated through. 
Remove from stove, and when quite cool, stir into crock or fruit 
jars, cover tightly, or better still, seal as you would fruit ; set in 
cool place. This makes 2 gallons. 

TIMBALES — Two eggs, 1 cup sweet milk, 12 tablespoons 
olive oil. Flour enough to make smooth batter, not too thick, 
place timbale iron in boiling lard till very hot, quickly dip iron 
in batter and right back into lard till fried light brown. This 
receipe will make 50 timbales. 

STRAWBERRY SHORT CAKE— Make a rich biscuit 
dough, sweeten it, bake in 2 layers, or 1 thick layer and 
split; when done, with a sharp knife, crush and sweeten ber- 
ries. Put between layers and over top, ripe peaches and other 
fruits can be used in the same way. Serve with whipped cream. 



DAINTIES, SALADS AND CLEVER H INTS 33 

EGG VERMICELLI— Run 6 hard boiled eggs through a 
ricer separately ; add to yolks a sprinkle of salt, melt 1 table- 
spoon of butter in pan, add 1 of flour ; when blended add 1 pint 
of milk. Cook until thick, add the whites, salt, pepper and 
cayenne to taste and 1 teaspoon of sugar. Alternate layers of 
this with the yolk and bits of butter in baking pan, with crumbs 
on top. Bake. 

One dozen mushrooms cooked and sliced, add to the favor 
of this dish. 



Puddings 



BREAD PUDDING— Cut crusts from shces of bread. 
Spread thick with butter. Lay in pudding dish. Put over 
this a layer of raisins, then buttered bread. Cover with cus- 
tard, and bake. Make custard with 2 eggs (leaving out the 
whites), 11/^ pints milk and sugar to taste. Then spread over 
top the beaten whites and return to oven to brown. Make 
sauce with 1 tablespoon butter, cream ; add 1 cup confectioner's 
sugar, beat thoroughly; 1 teaspoon of vinegar. Beat again, 
then add 1 teaspoon vanilla. This is most excellent. This sauce 
is '?'ood for plum pudding. 

TAPIOCA PUDDING— One scant cup tapioca soaked in 
cold water over night. Heat and add 1 quart boiling milk and 
beaten yolks of 3 eggs, and 1 cup sugar. Beat whites of eggs 
to stiff froth, add 3 tablespoons sugar; spread on top of pud- 
ding and brown. Any flavoring. 

CHOCOLATE PUDDING— One pint milk, 2 tablespoons 
cornstarch, 2 tablespoons chocolate, 1 cup sugar, vanilla, salt. 
Heat milk; dissolve cornstarch in a little cold water, having 
first stirred the chocolate thoroughly through it. Pour in hot 
milk and stir until thick. Serve in sherbet glasses with whip- 
ped cream and candied cherries. 

PRUNE WHIP — Remove the pits from 1 pound of prunes. 
Cover with water and cook till soft; with a spoon mash thor- 
oughly. Add and stir in well % pound powdered sugar. Beat 
the whites of 6 eggs to a stiff froth and mix well with the 
prunes. Put in buttered pudding dish and set in oven for 20 
minutes, to brown. Eat cold with whipped cream, or warm 
with pudding sauce. 



34 DAINTIES, SALADS AND CLEVER HINTS 

SUET PUDDING— One cup suet, 1 cup sweet milk, 1/2 cup 
Orleans molasses, 1/2 cup sugar, 21/2 cups flour, 1 cup raisins, 1 
teaspoon soda dissolved in little warm water. Steam 21/2 hours. 

Sauce: One pint water, pinch salt, heaping tablespoon 
butter, 1 tablespoon flour, 5 tablespoons sugar, flavor — vanilla. 

DATE PUDDING — Three eggs beaten separately, % cup 
powdered sugar, 3 tablespoons cracker crumbs, i/^ teaspoon 
baking powder, 1/4 pound nuts. Bake in thin sheets. When 
cold break in pieces and put whipped cream over it 4 hours 
before serving. 

ENGLISH PLUM PUDDING— Sift 1 pound of flour, 1 tea- 
spoon baking powder, and salt, mix thoroughly and add cold 
water or milk to make thick enough to spoon into the mold. 
Leave enough room for it to raise. Put in boiling water, and 
do not let it stop boiling. Time, 4 to 6 hours. Fruit, 1 pound 
currants, 1 pound raisins, 1 pound suet, 1 pound sugar, i/i 
pound candied lemon peel, 1 nutmeg and little cinnamon. 

K /c e s ^ 

NEW YORK ICE CREAM— Take 1 quart fresh milk, 
scald, stir in yolks of 2 eggs, I/2 box gelatine (dissolved), 1 cup 
sugar, stir constantly till thoroughly hot, cool, then pour in 
freezer, add beaten whites of eggs, 1 pint rich sweet cream, 2 
teaspoons vanilla, freeze. 

PEACH CREAM — Six large ripe peaches, 1 cup sugar, 
mash peaches into sugar, put in freezer and turn 10 minutes, 
add the whites of 3 eggs beaten stiff, and 1 pint of rich cream, 
freeze. 

CHOCOLATE ICE CREAM— One pint sweet milk, 1/2 cake 
grated sweet chocolate, yolk of 1 egg, scald and cool; 2 cups 
sweet milk, IV2 cups sugar, whites of eggs beaten stiff, freeze. 

LEMON SHERBET— Juice of 3 lemons, % pint granu- 
lated sugar, 1 teaspoon lemon extract, 1 quart milk. Mix all 
ingredients, adding milk last. Freeze. If the mixture sepa- 
rates badly do not be alarmed as it always freezes smooth. 

A great variety of delicious ice creams can be made by 
using different fruits and chopped nuts and cherries added to 
the New York ice cream recipe. 



DAINTIES, SALADS AND CLEVER HINTS 35 



Candies 



FRENCH FONDANT— Use equal parts of thick sweet 
cream and white of egg unbeaten, stir in enough XXXX con- 
fectioner's sugar (use no other) to make dough to mould. Here 
you have the body of all delicious cream candies. Any reliable 
druggist will procure for you absolutely pure vegetable coloring 
fluids at 10 cents per bottle, enough to last 10 years. This 
cream candy is a real delight because no cooking is needed. 

Fondant used to stuff dates, figs and nuts, and for an end- 
less variety of chocolate creams, nut rolls, nougat, fruit loaf. 

Boiled Fondant forms the basis for nearly all cream candies. 
Use pure granulated sugar, XXXX. Be careful not to get blue 
looking moist sugar, for this is beet sugar, and will not make 
good fondant. A rainy day you will not have success as on a 
clear, cool day. 

BOILED FONDANT— One pint sugar, milk or water to 
dissolve, boil till spoonful dropped into cold water makes a 
firm ball, not crisp. Set dish immediaely in par of cold water. 
When it begins to cool nicely beat to a cream, mould into a loaf 
and set away in a cool place to ripen. Should you desire candies 
at once, this is not necessary. If you wish to use different 
flavors and colors, while still beating to a cream, add colors and 
flavors before you mould into loaves; also chopped nuts and 
candied cherries for nut creams; chopped figs and dates for 
fruit creams, etc. As you may seek variety, form candies into 
blocks, rolls, cones or wafers. 

Now you are ready for almost any variety of cream candy. 

CHOCOLATE FOR DIPPING— Use equal parts of Walter 
Baker's unsweetened chocolate and fondant. Melt in granite 
dish set in hot water, add 1 spoonful of melted paraffine to 
chocolate, beat thoroughly while hot, roll candies in chocolate, 
and with a dexterous turn of the wrist, pick up and lay quickly 
on paraffine paper. You can make a large sheet of this your- 
self by brushing melted paraffine over white wrapping paper. 
Never mind if you do get your hands "rather mussy," it is far 
quicker done than using a fork. However, please yourself. 
Cover fruit or nut loaf. 

NOTE — I find to be absolutely sure of good results I must 
use Walter Baker's chocolate for candies. It is certainly sure 



36 DAINTIES, SALADS AND CLEVER HINTS 

as well as pure and you cannot get good results with an adulter- 
ated product. 

DIVINITY — Boil 2 cups sugar, 1 cup corn syrup, half cup 
water till forms soft ball in water — pour over beaten whites of 
3 eggs, beating rapidly till light, cool and cut into strips. Add 
nuts if desired. 

AFTER DINNER MINTS— One pound granulated sugar, 
1 cup of water in which 1 tablespoon of gum arabic has been 
dissolved, add i/^ teaspoon pure cream tartar, boil until it will 
form ball in water; add 1 teaspoon essence of peppermint 
(more, if you want them strong) , pour out on marble slab and 
let cool till you can handle easily ; pull till creamy white, form 
into even sticks, mark by pressing silver knife into sections. 

Cover up in a box for a day or two, when they will be 
creamy and will be easily parted where sections are marked. 

WINTER GREEN MINTS— Make as above, using a few 
drops of pink or green coloring and 10 drops oil of wintergreen 
to flavor. 

CREAM CANDY— One pint XXXX granulated sugar, 1 
tablespoon butter, 1 tablespoon vinegar, i/^ teaspoon cream 
tartar, 1 small cup cold water, mix, put on fire and do not stir ; 
when it hairs pour into buttered pan and mark into squares. 
Cover tightly (after it is cold) for a day or two, it will be dry 
and yet creamy. 

MARSH MALLOWS— To 1 pound of XXXX granulated 
sugar add 14 pound of white gum arabic dissolved in 1 quart of 
water and strained carefully. Put in granite pan over slow fire, 
stir constantly until it is about as thick as ordinary molasses ; 
add the well beaten whites of 8 eggs; flavor with vanilla or 
bitter almond; stir until it does not stick to the fingers, pour 
into a dripping pan filled with cornstarch into which you have 
pressed a square block, leaving mould for candy ; drop spoonful 
into each mould, or, if preferred, dust pan with cornstarch, 
pour in marshmallow and as it cools mark into squares and 
roll in starch. Dip in chocolate if desired. 

BUTTER SCOTCH— Equal parts of New Orleans molasses 
and granulated sugar, to I/2 pound each, use 14 cup butter, 2 
tablespoons vinegar, 14 teaspoon soda, cook till very brittle 
without stirring, pour on a shallow buttered pan, cut in squares 
and drip in square of paraffine paper. 



DAINTIES, SALADS AND CLEVER HINTS 37 

CHEWING TAFFY— Three cups of granulated sugar, i/g 
cup each water and vinegar, paraffine size of Enghsh walnut, 
butter size of walnut, 1 teaspoon cream tartar; do not stir; 
boil till it hairs; pour on slab till cool enough to handle, pull 
till white and cut in strips. 

BUTTER SCOTCH— Two cups brown sugar, 1/2 cup but- 
ter, 1/2 cup white vinegar, boil until it cracks in ice water, add 
1 teaspoon vanilla, cool and cut in squares. 

ICE CREAM CANDY— One pint sugar, 1/2 cup cream, 1/2 
teaspoon cream of tartar, butter the size of an egg, boil 15 
minutes, do not stir, 1 teaspoon of nectar or vanilla, pour in 
pan to cool, cut in squares. 

FUDGE — Tv/o cups sugar, 1 cup milk, 1/2 pound Walter 
Baker's Sweet Chocolate grated, butter the size of an egg, i/^ 
teaspoon of vanilla, boil until it makes soft ball in water, take 
from fire and stir, pour in shallow pan, mark in squares. 

PEANUT BRITTLE— One cup brown sugar, dry in skillet, 
place over fire and stir and stir until sugar is melted and 
browned a light amber color, add 1 cup chopped peanuts, stir 
until it begins to grain. 

STUFFED DATES— Remove the stone, fill the date with 
fondant into which has been folded a pecan nut. Do not quite 
close the date but leave a line of white fondant showing. Roll 
in course granulated sugar. 

STUFFED FIGS— Open steamed figs at stem end, fill with 
chopped nuts, mix with fondant and roll in granulated sugar. 

SALTED WALNUTS, FILBERTS AND ALMONDS— 
Blanch nuts, dip each nut in melted butter, sprinkle with salt 
and a light dash of paprika, set in hot oven, brown, turn over 
and sprinkle in more salt, turn over and brown slightly. 

ITALIAN CREAMS— Whip white of 1 egg, add 1 teaspoon 
water, add 1 pound powdered sugar, knead the paste smooth, 
divide into 3 parts, color 1/3 pink, flavor as desired, color I/3 
green, leave ^3 white. Roll each piece flat, brush with white 
of egg and lay on top of each other. When set cut into squares. 

CRACKER JACK — One cup molasses, 2 cups sugar, 1 
tablespoon butter, 2 tablespoons of vinegar. Boil until a little 
dropped in cold water cracks, then take from the fire, add a half 
teaspoon of baking soda, beat briskly and pour into a pan upon 
popped corn and chopped peanuts. 



38 DAINTIES, SALADS AND CLEVER HINTS 

DIVINITY FUDGE — Two and one-half cups white sugar, 
1/2 cup Karo syrup, 1/2 cup boiling water, whites of 2 eggs, 1 
cup nuts. Boil sugar, syrup and water until just before it 
hairs from spoon. Beat eggs until stiff. Pour half of boiled 
contents into egg whites and beat continually. Boil remaining 
half of syrup about one minute more. Beat with first half 
until thick. Pour into pan about 1 inch and mark into squares, 
first adding nuts. 

PEPPERMINT DROPS— One cup sugar, 4 tablespoons 
boiling water. Boil 3 minutes ; then beat in 4 tablespons sugar 
and 4 drops of oil of peppermint. Drop while hot on oil paper. 

^ Cheese JJishes ,g^ 

WELSH RAREBIT— One-half pound of cheese, 1 Qgg, 5 
tablespoons of milk; beat the eggs, add the milk and cheese, 
cut fine or grated; add small spoonful salt, pinch of cayenne 
and mustard, cook until cheese is entirely melted. Serve hot 
on toast or crackers. 

POTATOES AU GRAUTIN— Six cold boiled potatoes cut 
in dice, one cup grated cheese, salt and paprika to taste. Make 
white sauce. 

One pint of hot milk, dash of salt and paprika, 2 spoons 
butter, 2 spoons flour; rub smooth and add to milk. Be 
careful not to scorch. When thickened place a layer of potatoes 
in baking dish, sprinkle thickly with cheese, cover with white 
sauce; keep on until dish is filled with alternate layers, white 
sauce on top with cheese sprinkled over; bake 20 minutes. 

POTATOES AND CHEESE— Cut a slice from top of 
baked potatoes, scoop out the potatoes, being careful not to 
break the skin, mash, add generously thick, sweet cream, salt 
to taste. One spoonful grated cheese to each potato, beat very 
light, fill skins, sprinkle cheese over top, set in oven to brov/n. 

If sufficiently beaten they will puff up beautifully. A 
dainty luncheon, breakfast, or tea dish. 

ESCALLOPED POTATOES WITH CHEESE— Slice raw 
potatoes very thin, roll cup of crackers, grate cup of cheese, 
place alternate layers in baking dish with pieces of butter and 
a dash of salt and pepper. Pour over all sweet cream or milk 
to cover. Bake 1 hour. 



DAINTIES, SALADS AND CLEVER HINTS 3? 

CHEESE BALLS — Grate 1 cup of cheese. Beat into it the 
beaten white of 1 egg. Mix into tiny balls and fry in smok- 
ing fat. 

MACARONI WITH CHEESE— One-quarter of a pound of 
macaroni cooked in boiling water twenty minutes. Drain. 
Make a sauce of 1 tablespoon of butter, and 1 of flour, and IV2 
cups of hot milk, salted. Put a layer of cheese in bottom of 
baking dish, then a layer of macaroni and 1 of sauce, and pro- 
ceed in this manner until all are used. Cover top with bread 
crumbs, placing bits of butter and a little cheese over it. Bake 
until brown. Noodles can be used instead of macaroni, and 
makes a richer dish. 

CHEESE STRAWS— To pie crust add 1/2 cup grated 
cheese and a dash of paprika, roll thin, cut in strips, lay on wet 
pan, not allowing straws to touch. Bake quickly, do not brown, 
serve with salads. 

^ Griddle Cakes and Fritters ^ 

FRUIT FRITTERS— Are made by dipping pieces of very 
ripe fruit into pancake batter and frying as you would a pan- 
cake or in deep fat. Sweeten batter a little more for fruit 
fritters. 

WAFFLES — These are made the same way as pancakes, 
only have the batter quite a little thicker. 

PANCAKES — Beat 3 eggs separately; into the yolks put 
1 teaspoon sugar, I/2 teaspoon salt, 1 pint milk, flour to make 
it the consistency, 2 teaspoons baking powder, fold in the 
whites and lastly a small tablespoon of melted butter. 

CORN FRITTERS— One cup of sweet corn, 1 cup milk, 1 
teaspoon of baking powder, yolks of 2 eggs, 14 cup of flour, V2 
teaspoon of salt. Beat the yolks of the eggs until light ; add to 
the corn with the milk, flour and salt. Beat until light and 
smooth ; add the whites, beaten to a stiff, dry froth, and the 
baking powder. Mix lightly and quickly ; fry on a hot griddle. 

too Eggs and Omelettes CQ 

PLAIN OMELET — Four eggs, I/2 teaspoon salt, dash pep- 
per, beat 4 tablespoons milk or cream, mix. Have a little hot 
butter in pan, turn in egg, shake till set, roll and turn on dish. 



40 DAINTIES, SALADS AND CLEVER HINTS 

- PUFF OMELET — For a large omelet take 6 eggs, use 2 
tablespoons of milk to every egg. Beat the yolks, add the milk 
and half a teaspoon of salt. Beat the whites to a stiff froth 
and stir lightly through the mixture. Melt about a teaspoon 
of lard and butter in a frying pan and when it smokes put in 
the mixture. Set on a moderate hot part of the stove till the 
egg sets, then fold over and turn onto a hot platter. 

CHEESE OMELET — Beat 4 eggs, yolks and whites sep- 
arately, season with salt and pepper; put 2 spoons of butter 
into large frying pan (steel preferred; sheet iron heats too 
quickly and endangers burning), pour into pan 1 cup of milk 
with yolks of eggs and 2 whole eggs well beaten together; 
cook very slowly, watch, and before it is quite "set" sprinkle 
on cup of grated cheese, pour beaten whites over the whole; 
fold together and slip out on warm platter; sprinkle minced 
parsley over all and serve at once. 



A Word to The Cook 



After picking poultry, rub briskly with corn meal to re- 
move pin feathers. 

A well-beaten white of egg added to mashed potatoes, 
whipping the potatoes hard before serving, will add much to 
the looks and taste. 

If fruit stains on linen are moistened with a little camphor 
before the stain has been wet with water, they will entirely 
disappear. 

Ground cloves are excellent in cupboards where ants are 
found. They will not cross a circle of cloves. 

Save the small pieces of nutmeg that are too small to 
grate and put into the meat grinder, with the fine knife on. 
This will be a great saving of nutmeg as well as fingers. 

If sweet potatoes are greased before baking they will be 
much softer and sweeter. 

Welsh rarebit will not curdle or become stringy if a small 
pinch of soda is added. 

"TO POACH'* — Grease sauce pan with unsalted fat, and 
put in water to fully cover eggs. Be sure it is boiling. Draw 
to side of stove and drop in eggs one by one. Let stand where 
it is hot but not boiling till eggs are cooked. 



DAINTIES, SALADS AND CLEVER HINTS 41 

"TO SHIRR EGGS"— Shirred eggs are broken into cups 
with seasoning and piece of butter and baked. 

"TO CREAM BUTTER"— Beat with silver fork till frothy. 

ESSENTIAL PROPORTIONS 

1 small teaspoon baking powder to 1 cup flour. 
1 teaspoon soda to 1 pint of sour milk.. 
1 teaspoon soda to 1 cup of molasses. 

"FRENCH TOAST"— Dip bread into beaten egg and 
cream, well seasoned, and fry in butter. Sprinkle with cinna- 
mon and sugar. Serve with jelly or plain. 

"PUREE" — Press any cooked vegetable through a fine 
sieve — potato, celery, peas, beans, squash, carrots, etc. Add to 
richly seasoned hot milk. Serve in soup bowls with croutons. 

BRINE in which butter will keep fresh for a year: 2i/2 
gallons of brine that will bear up an egg : 

One-half pound loaf sugar, 1 tablespoon saltpeter; boil all 
together, strain, cool, wrap butter in cloth; put in brine and 
weight down. 

REMEMBER that tomato poured, a little at a time, into 
milk and stirred, does not curdle; milk poured into tomatoes, 
does curdle. This is worth remembering when making soup. 

WHIP CREAM in a fruit jar by shaking it up and down 
for about five minutes. This saves much whipping in the ordi- 
nary way and also saves the cream, as not a drop escapes. 

SAVE the water off mashed potatoes. It's fine for the 
soup kettle. 

EVERY CAREFUL COOK should have a soup kettle. The 
bones and fat left from roasts, or bones cut from steak, and 
bits of vegetables added each meal to the soup kettle, will 
almost furnish soup for every day's dinner, if kept in a cool 
place and well covered. 

KITCHEN HERBS— For seasoning and relishes no 
kitchen should be dependent on costly imported spices when a 
small section of the garden can be made to produce a variety 
of herbs to please the most exacting. 

"In a back yard plan we grow thirteen varieties in a space 
three feet wide and ten feet long at the north lot line : Chives, 
celery smallage, parsley, chervil, sweet basil, summer savory, 
thyme, fennel, anise, sweet marjoram, dill, mint, and sage. 



42 DAINTIES, SALADS AND CLEVER HINTS 

Tarragon should really have been added or even substituted for 
some one of those." 

To reduce the disagreeable smell when boiling cabbage, 
add to the water a toasted bread crust. 

When vegetables or other foods become scorched, remove 
the kettle from the stove and put it into a pan of cold water. 
This will remove the scorched taste. 

^ Household Hints ^ 

TO REMOVE INK— Apply alcohol, and immediately the 
spot fades. For a dry old stain dip from alcohol to lemon juice 
till clear. For colored goods use alcohol only. 

TO REMOVE IRON RUST— Saturate spot with lemon 
juice and salt, and hold over hot steam — fades immediately. 

TO REMOVE MILDEW— Soap thoroughly, rubbing pow- 
dered chalk into spots while wet, lay in sun on the grass ; wet 
often, sprinkling on more chalk till clear. 

TO MEND CHINA— Take a very thick solution of gum 
arable in water, stir into it plaster of paris until the mixture 
becomes of the consistency of cream, apply with a brush to the 
broken edges and join together. In three days the article 
cannot be broken in the same place. 

TO REMOVE RUST— To remove rust from white gar- 
ments, soak them thoroughly in buttermilk. It will remove 
the rust and make white as snow. 

Mix plaster of paris with vinegar instead of water. It 
will be like putty and will harden slowly. 

TO REMOVE SCRATCHES from mahogany furniture 
caused by pins, belts, etc., take a brazil or pecan nut meat and 
rub well on scratch. 

yj 1 til s and I h a t yj 

ASPIC JELLY — Mince 1 stalk celery, 1 onion, 10 pepper- 
corns, 1/2 lemon rind, 4 cloves, 6 sprigs parsley; add 1 quart 
veal stock, V2 cup vinegar, boil slowly 1/2 hour; strain, add 1 
box Cox's gelatine previously dissolved in cold water, bring 
to a boil ; beat whites of 2 eggs with broken shells, whisk into 
liquor, bring to a boil; set off stove for a few minutes, filter 
through thick cloth, put in mould. It is ready to use as soon as 
set. Serve to garnish salads, or as a salad on lettuce or cress. 



DAINTIES, SALADS AND CLEVER HINTS 43 

EGYPTIAN LOTUS— Place eggs in cold water, boil 10 
minutes, drop into cold water, shell and lay in warm water, if 
they become cold petals will break. Cut eggs through the 
whites from small end to nearly base forming 7 petals, lay 
back carefully placing on nest of bleached lettuce hearts. Do 
this to prevent handling again, remove yolks, and with a dainty 

bit of cloth and cold water rub off any bit of yolk which may 
adhere to white petals. Mash the yolks with spoonful of but- 
ter and one cooked red beet, salt, and a tiny spoon of cavarie, a 
dash of mustard and pepper, form into balls, flatten and lay on 
white petals, mark with a fork by pressing around edge of ball 
(as you do pie crust) prick holes in center of ball leaving it 
slightly roughened. For buds, press a ball size of pecan be- 
tween two long stemmed water cress leaves, and twisting 
stems, lay on lettuce with lillies. Serve with mayonnaise. 

CHOP SUEY — Mince 4 pounds cooked veal in 1/2 ii^ch 
pieces, 1 cooked veal tongue sliced thin. Shred in long strips 
and very narrow 1 pound bacon. Chop fine 1 pound fat from 
veal with a cup of suet. Place fat, suet and bacon in large iron 
kettle, fry golden brown, stirring often. Add 1 cup shredded 
chestnut meats, 4 onions diced 1/2 inch square, 4 stalks celery 
cut in 1/2 inch lengths, 4 large potatoes cut in strips as for 
French fry. Lay vegetables in smoking fat, fry to golden 
brown. Add minced veal and tongue ; stir for 5 minutes, add- 
ing salt and white pepper. Sift over I/2 cup flour, stirring 
smooth and till rich brown. Add 1 quart water and set back 
to simmer slowly 1 hour. Serve with bowls of unsalted rice, 
cooked till dry and flaky. Will serve 20 people. 

CHILI CON CARNIE— Three pounds of lean bacon cut in 
dice, with 10 pounds of lean beef cut into small pieces. Chop 
three pounds of suet; place in kettle and fry for twenty min- 
utes taking care to stir and not to scorch. Now add 2 quarts 
of Chilli beans or black kidney beans previously parboiled, and 
4 gallons of water, 100 tiny red pepper corns, 6 sweet peppers 
chopped rather fine, 24 large ripe tomatoes, 50 okra pods, i^ 
teacup of salt. Set it where it will simmer slowly for 4 hours, 
adding water as is needed. This should serve 150 people. 
Serve with lettuce sandwiches, coffee and pickles. 

EGGS ON TOAST— Make buttered toast, beat white of 
egg, put in mound on toast, drop yolk on and bake till done. 



44 DAINTIES, SALADS AND CLEVER HINTS 

^ Preserves, Jellies and Pickles ^ 

FOR PRESERVES — Use equal parts of sugar and fruit. 
Cook a syrup till it threads. Put in fruit that has been washed 
and drained. Let stand till next day. Heat through. Can 
and seal. In this way the fruit will remain whole and retain 
its color. 

PEAR AND QUINCE — Equal parts of pears and quinces 
chopped fine, put into the preserving kettle, with measure for 
measure of fruit and sugar and a little water cooked till thor- 
oughly done, make a most delicious preserve. 

DIVINITY CONSERVE— Wash and pulp grapes, cook the 
pulp, and take out seeds. Put with skins — of this you want 4 
quarts; then add 3 pounds of small seedless raisins and 6 
oranges, sliced fine, using rinds of 3. Take cup for cup of 
sugar ; mix well and boil till thick ; when done add 1 pound of 
English meats broken in small pieces; seal while hot. 

GINGER PEARS— To 8 pounds of pears that have been 
peeled, cored and chopped fine, add 8 pounds of sugar, 1 pound 
chopped candied ginger and the rind of 3 lemons that have 
been boiled till tender and chopped fine. Add 1 pint of water 
and cook till done. Seal hot. 

QUINCES should be stewed until soft, then dropped into 
hot syrup and cooked a few minutes, or until quite tender. 
Seal and wrap. Save the juice in which they have been 
cooked. Use equal parts of apple juice for jelly; quince juice 
alone is too strong for jelly. 

IN MAKING JELLY — Use a scant pint of sugar to a pint 
of juice. Make only a pint, or pint and a half at a time, and 
boil as quickly as possible. 

ALL FRUIT should be pretty well covered with water. An 
inch or an inch and a half from covering. 

PUT A CHEESE CLOTH over a colander. Pour in fruit, 
and let drain, do not press, if you would have clear jelly. It is 
more convenient than a jelly bag. 

APPLE JELLY — Wash, cut out cores, do not peel. Cook 
till done. Proceed as in making jelly. 

TO FLAVOR Apple Jelly add a few rose geranium leaves. 
When boiling apples, quince parings, also, can be boiled with 
the apples, giving it a decided quince flavor. 



46 DAINTIES, SALADS AND CLEVER HINTS 

GRAPES not too ripe make the best jelly. Adding a hand- 
ful of cherry leaves gives a v^^onderful flavor to grape juice. 

GREEN GRAPES to which a few mint leaves have been 
added while cooking, make a fine jelly for roast lamb or mutton. 

TO KEEP JELLY — There is no better way than to pour 
hot melted paraffin on top after the jelly has hardened, then 
adjust the covers. 

CUCUMBER PICKLES— To a gallon of vinegar, add a cup 
of ground mustard, 1 cup grated horseradish, 1/2 cup of salt, 
wash pickles, put in vinegar, weight down and cover. These 
will be brittle and keep indefinitely. When sweet pickles are 
wanted take them out and cover with warm, sweetened spiced 
vinegar. 

PICKLED BUTTER NUTS AND WALNUTS— Pick green 
nuts the last of June, make brine strong enough to hold an 
egg, cover nuts with brine for 6 days, wash off brine, cover 
with boiling vinegar, add 1 cup of brown sugar, 1 ounce of 
cloves, 1 of cinnamon, 1 of mustard seed, 1 ground nutmeg. 
Let stand three days, throw away the vinegar and prepare 
fresh vinegar in the same way, heat to boiling point, add 1 tea- 
cup of ground horseradish, l^ pound of ginger root, place nuts 
in stone jar; cover with vinegar. Repeat 3 days; heat; seal. 

TO SPICE FRUIT — Make as you would preserves, using 
vinegar instead of water, add cloves and a stick of cinnamon, 

CANNED CORN— Cut the com close to the cob so that 
scraping is unnecessary and measure eight cupsful. Measure 
1 cupful of salt, and 1 cupful of sugar. Put a layer of the corn 
in a large earthenware dish, then a layer of salt and sugar, till 
all are used up, and allow to stand over night. In the morning 
bring to boiling point and give a thorough boil, then fill into 
sterilized jars and cover at once. When wanted for use soak 
the corn over night. 

CANNED CORN— One pint sugar, 1 pint salt, 2 pints 
water and 9 pints corn. Bring to boiling point; boil hard for 
10 minutes. Seal while hot in glass jars. Wrap well and put in 
a cool dry place. When opened to use, if too salty, soak over 
night and change to fresh water in the morning. 

CANNED STRING BEANS— Wash, string and cut into 
pieces. Cook till tender, well seasoned with salt and pepper; 



48 DAINTIES, SALADS AND CLEVER HINTS 

fill cans while very hot and put 2 tablespoons hot vinegar in 
each can. Seal immediately. Have cans thoroughly sterilized. 

CANNED STRING BEANS— String and break young and 
tender beans, boil with a tiny piece of red pepper in boiling 
salted water for twenty minutes, and can in sterilized cans. 
Fill the cans with the beans and the water in which they were 
cooked, add to each can 1 tablespoonful cider vinegar and seal. 

CANNED RED PEPPERS— Cut around the stems of the 
peppers and remove them, then remove the seeds. Pour boiling 
water over the prepared peppers, cover and let stand for six 
minutes, to lessen the firmness and facilitate the packing. 

Pack the peppers edgewise in the jars, pressing them 
in ; set in place on a rack in a steam cooker, first laying a folded 
cloth over the rack. 

CANNED EGGPLANT— Pare the eggplants, cut them in 
thin slices, and drop into boiling water. Allow them to remain 
for fifteen minutes, then drain off the water, and pack the 
slices in jars. Cover with cold water, add one teaspoonful of 
salt to each quart jar, put on the rubbers and tops, and boil foi 
one hour on each successive day for three days. 

Screw the covers tight. 

STRING BEANS— Cook 2 hours or longer till very tender. 
Season as for the table. While hot, fill glass jars, and before 
sealing, put 2 tablespoons hot vinegar on top of each can. Seal, 
wrap, keep dry and cool. 

BUTTER BEANS— Cook till done, 5 quarts freshly shelled 
buttered beans; then add 1 even tablespoon salsillic acid and 
cook 10 minutes more, (be careful not to cook them to a mush) . 
Seal hot in glass jars; wrap well. 

Peas and asparagus can be canned same as butter beans. 

STRAWBERRY PRESERVES— Cook just 2 pounds at a 
time. 2 pounds solid berries with 3 pounds sugar. Put berries 
in porcelain kettle over slow fire; add sugar, very little at a 
time until all is used. The berries make their own juice. Boil 
10 to 15 minutes. 

You can add several "makings" together. Heat all togeth- 
er; stir gently, and after cold stir again, mixing syrup and 
berries, and can cold. Put in cans or jelly glasses and cover 
with hot parafine. This is excellent. 



o^iNjUHESS 




