OUSING and tl 

UBLIC HEALTH 



JOHN ROBERTSON 

C.M.C..O.B.E..M.D 




presented to 

library 

of tbc 

of Toronto 



*r+ 

The Ont^rvo -B^^-nch 
f 



ENGLISH PUBLIC HEALTH SERIES 
Edited by SlR MALCOLM MORRIS, K.C.V.O. 



HOUSING AND THE PUBLIC HEALTH 



Housing and the 
Public Health 



BY 

JOHN ROBERTSON 

C.M.G., O.B.E., M.D., B.Sc. 

Medical Officer of Health of Birmingham 



WITH 12 DIAGRAMS 




CASSELL AND COMPANY, LTD 

London, New York, Toronto and Melbourne 



First published 1919 



PREFACE 

MY official life has brought me into intimate con- 
tact with the bad conditions under which the 
humbler classes in our towns have to exist and the 
remedies which may be applied to these conditions. 

The experience thus gained enables me to assert 
with confidence that all these people (except per- 
haps a negligible minority) will respond to im- 
proved conditions, provided that the change is 
adequate. We may in this sense "trust the people." 

No single condition in the lives of the masses 
has such a damaging effect on health, or does harm 
in so many other ways, as bad housing. It is for 
this reason that I feel strongly the need of raising 
the standard of "housing," so that every human 
life may enjoy the advantages of a healthy house in 
healthy surroundings. My minimal standard may 
be considered high, but I do not think that any 
substantial reduction could be made without risk- 
ing the return of some of the unwholesome condi- 
tions we wish to remedy. 

The opinions expressed result from my own 
experience; I have therefore given but few refer- 



Preface 

ences. The following special Reports, however, 
from the second of which, commonly known as the 
Tudor Walters Report, I have been allowed to 
reproduce illustrations, will be found valuable : 

Report of the Royal Commission on Housing 
for Scotland (Cd. 8731). 

Report to the Local Government Board on 
questions of Building Construction in con- 
nection with the provision of Dwellings for 
the Working Classes in England and Wales 
(Cd. 9191). 

I have appended to the text a list of works of 
reference and other documents which are essential 
for anyone desiring to follow up the subject. 

J. R. 



VI 



CONTENTS 



INTRODUCTION 

TAGS, 

The Housing Difficulty a Result of Industrial Development 
Difficulty of estimating the Harm done by Bad 
Housing Environment an Essential Factor of Good 
Housing Bad Housing only one Component of a 
Vicious Circle Housing and Wages i 

CHAPTER I 

The Influence of Bad Housing on the 
Health of the People 

Responsiveness of Slum-dwellers to Improved Housing 
High Death-rates in Small Houses Death-rates in 
Different Areas of the Same Towns Army Rejects and 
Unwholesome Conditions 9 

CHAPTER II 

The Structural Requirements of a Healthy 
Dwelling 

Resum^ of Structural, Environmental and General Require- 
ments Protection from the Weather Protection 
against Extremes of Temperature Dampness 
Capacity for being kept Clean Overcrowding Spray 
Infection Overcrowding on Space Ventilation 
LightingWater Supply Baths Facilities for lessen- 
ing House Work ,. ' 19 

vii 



Contents 



CHAPTER III 
The Space Allotted to the Dwelling 

PAGE 

Self-contained Houses General Drainage and other Sani- 
tary Fittings 'Midden Privies Removal of Solid 
Refuse Surface Pollution Wash-houses . . .51 



CHAPTER IV 
The General Requirements of the Dwelling 

Pleasant Surroundings Transit Facilities Means of 
Recreation Dryneas of Site Aspect Cellars Free- 
dom from Trade Nuisances . 60 



CHAPTER V 
The Future Housing of the People 

Building Schemes of the Future Number of Dwelling- 
houses per Acre The Lay-out 'Mixing the Classes 
Details of the Plan Straight versus Curved Roads 
The Set-back . 65 



CHAPTER VI 
General Block Plan of the House 

Size of the Building Back Roads Storage of Refuse 
Privacy of Back Premises Roadways Drainage Ques- 
tions The Intercepting Trap Drains Drain Law 
Waste Pipes Yard Surfaces Gully Traps Fences 
and Walls . . . . ' . ..." '.' . . 78 
viii 



Contents 



CHAPTER VII 
The Accommodations of a Cottage 

PAGE 

The Parlour The Scullery Size of the Living-room and 
Parlour Hall and Stairs The Wash-house Water- 
closet Accommodation The Larder The Coal Store 
The Bathroom Bedrooms Bedrooms on the Ground 
Floor Attic Rooms Cupboards and Shelves Cost of 
the House .90 



CHAPTER VIII 
Materials 

Brick Walls Hollow Walls Roofs Slate Roofs Internal 
Surfaces Skirting Boards, Mouldings, etc. Floors 
Windows Plumbing ....... 105 



CHAPTER IX 
Communal Services 

Service of Hot Water Central Heating Play-rooms and 
Creches Communal Clothes Washing Vacuum 
Cleaning 112 



CHAPTER X 
Rural Cottages 

Size of the Cottage Scullery and Bathroom Water-closet 
Accommodation Water Supply Drainage and Dis- 
posal of Liquid Refuse Tool Houses and Fuel Stores 
Materials for the Country Cottage . . . .116 
ix 



Contents 

CHAPTER XI 
Housing in London 

PAGE 

Abundance of Parks Multiplicity of Housing Authorities 
A Central Housing Authority Needed Tenements 
for Central Areas Adaptation of Middle-class Houses . 123 

CHAPTER XII 
The Reparation of Old Properties 

Obligations on Landlords to keep Houses Fit for Habita- 
tion Powers of the Sanitary Authorities Unhealthy 
Areas No Power to Town-plan Old Built-up Areas . 126 

CHAPTER XIII 
Building of Houses in New Areas 

Definitions Classes of the Community for which Local 
Authorities must provide Houses Purchase of Land 
Borrowing Powers Need for Simplification of Hous- 
ing Law 134 

CHAPTER XIV 
The Present Shortage and the Proposed Remedy 

Why Housebuilding Slackened before the War Evil Re- 
sults of Overcrowding Government Offer of Financial 
Help The Housing and Town Planning Bill Facili- 
ties for Private Individuals to Build The Future . 141 

SOME STANDARD WORKS OF REFERENCE . . ,' .151 

INDEX . . . . . . . . ' '* . . 153 



LIST OF DIAGRAMS 



Fig. i. Area in Birmingham crowded with dwellings 

and factories 31 

,, 2. To show factory areas in a town-planned 

area 69 

,, 3. Well-contrived and ill-contrived roads . 71 

,, 4. To illustrate the greater obstructiveness of 

buildings to direct sunlight in winter . 79 

3 , 5. Four cottages with covered passage . . Si 

6. Four cottages without covered passage . 81 

,, 7. Types of narrow and cheap roads for light 

traffic 82 

,, 8. Plan of narrow-fronted cottages facing north 93 

,, 9. Plan of narrow-fronted cottages facing south 95 

,, 10. Plan of broad-fronted cottages facing south 96 

,, ii. To show method of siting houses away from 

main road 117 

,, 12. Cottage without parlour, suitable in some 

rural areas . . 118 



HOUSING AND THE 
PUBLIC HEALTH 

INTRODUCTION 

THE Housing question as we know it to-day 
is largely a product of the great industrial 
development which commenced in this coun- 
try rather more than a century ago. In 
those far-away days nobody foresaw what 
would be the result of the crowding of dwell- 
ings in towns or of the depletion of popula- 
tion and wealth from the rural areas. 

It is doubtful whether it is wise to impute 
blame to the thinkers or legislators of those 
days for not pointing out more clearly what 
would occur, or for not taking steps to pre- 
vent what has actually happened. All of us 
can find wise men who prophesy correctly, 
yet it would have been impossible to con- 
vince the mass of the people in those days 



Housing and Public Health 

of the effects which were going to follow. 
May we not even to-day have precisely similar 
problems coming up for decision problems 
in which the future has to be outlined, and 
that future is extraordinarily dim ? Who, 
for instance, is prepared to predict what 
will be even approximately the effects of 
any great development of aviation ? Yet it 
is conceivable that such a development may 
profoundly influence questions of housing, 
as well as other problems. It is unwise 
and ungenerous, then, to blame the distant 
past for what we have around us to-day. 
Rather is it important for us to recognise 
what is bad, and to use our every effort to 
remedy it as soon as possible. 

Bearing in mind that what we suffer 
from in bad housing is the result of want of 
foresight or knowledge, it is peculiarly neces- 
sary, in attempting to put forward a policy 
to satisfy ourselves that it is not a retro- 
grade policy, and it behoves us to use every 
means in our power to ensure that we advo- 
cate at least the minimal requirements of 
healthy human life. 

One of the perfectly marvellous facts 



Introduction 

which emerge from a study of human life 
is its capacity for adapting itself to extra- 
ordinarily adverse conditions. But for this 
adaptability many of the families which 
live in the crowded parts of our slums would 
have been exterminated long ago. Human 
life is able to adapt itself even to the adverse 
conditions of the Arctic and Antarctic zones 
and of the tropics ; but it is doubtful whether 
either of these extremes does as much dam- 
age to human life as is produced by bad 
housing, and all that is associated with 
it, in our towns. 

We have, unfortunately, only imperfect 
methods of measuring the harm done by 
such influences as bad housing. The death- 
rate is a crude foot-rule, the sickness-rate 
is so incomplete as to be unusable in most 
cases, anthropometrical measurements are 
not much better, criminal statistics are not 
very direct in their bearing on the question, 
life-tables have yet to be worked out to 
show that slum-dwellers live under extra- 
ordinary handicaps, and nearly every other 
criterion is liable to such variation as to be 
of very limited value. But while this is so, 

3 



Housing and Public Health 

there is such a mass of evidence already 
accumulated of the evil results of life under 
unwholesome conditions that no one will 
attempt to refute it. 

The figures which are given in the first 
chapter indicate that, approximately, the 
death-rate in the slum areas of our towns 
is nearly twice as high as that in average 
artisan areas. It is, of course, not claimed 
for a single moment that the whole of this 
excess is due to the structure of the houses, 
but throughout this book the term " hous- 
ing " is used in its widest sense as meaning 
all the influences which congregate round a 
house. The harm is even greater than is 
indicated by the figures. If it were possible 
to reduce the average death-rate in this 
country to the very moderate figure of 
10 deaths per 1,000 people living, we should 
save more than 200,000 lives every year, 
and at least ten times this number of cases 
of illness. The money value of this would 
be enormous, yet it is well within the range 
of accomplishment in a generation or two 
if an earnest attempt be made. And largely 
this attempt must take the form of pro- 

4 



Introduction 

viding wholesome conditions for those who 
are now living in unwholesome surroundings. 

If you take the employee who works in 
a dusty, ill-lighted factory all day and lives 
and sleeps in an ill-ventilated, ill-lighted, and 
perhaps damp house, and is ignorant of the 
kinds of food he ought to buy, it is almost 
certain that you will get in him and his 
family a high incidence of disease. The 
rural labourer, too, who because of his poor 
pay has poor food, with long hours of work, 
and often has to pass his nights in a damp, 
ill-ventilated or unventilated sleeping-room, 
is marked out for ill-health, disease, in- 
efficiency in his work, and early death. 

To a very considerable extent there is 
absolute agreement as to the minimal stan- 
dard required for a dwelling-house so far 
as accommodation, arrangement, and struc- 
ture are concerned, but it is only within 
very recent years that it has been realised 
that something more than well-planned 
bricks and mortar is required. It is only a 
few years ago that the value of town plan- 
ning was first emphasised as one of the 
essential adjuncts to reasonably good hous- 

5 



Housing and Public Health 

ing. Scarcely any great social problem has 
been more earnestly considered than this, 
and there is perhaps none in which more 
progress has been made in so short a time. 

In considering housing from a Public 
Health point of view, too much emphasis 
cannot be laid on the fact that bad housing 
is but one component of a vicious circle of 
which the other components are drink, 
poverty, vice, dirtiness, carelessness, and 
ignorance. And bad housing, to change the 
metaphor, is the link of the chain which 
may most easily, and with the most per- 
manent benefits, be broken. This, therefore, 
is the most important of all the links for 
the social reformer to deal with. 

But why has there been so much delay 
in grappling with a problem which is of 
such vital importance to the nation ? The 
answer is to be found in the many and 
difficult economic questions which enter into 
it. A full description of all these questions 
would be out of place in a little book on the 
health aspects of housing, but it is obvious 
that without reference to these a very im- 
portant side of the problem would be ignored. 

6 



Introduction 

Ten years ago it was the custom to pay 
navvies, railway surface men, and many 
classes of labourers in our provincial towns 
from eighteen to twenty-two shillings a 
week. On these wages a man married and 
brought up a family often a large family. 
These people were reliable, hard-working, 
thrifty, and clean. They had to settle for 
themselves the rent they could afford. In 
the country it varied from 2s. to 45. per 
week, and in the towns it was a little more. 
For these rents they got the best value in 
houses which could be given, but the houses 
were the derelicts of the district, or houses 
which would not have been occupied but 
for the stress of poverty. No wonder that 
these labourers often looked with envy at 
the good buildings which were provided for 
the horses and cows of those who recog- 
nised that good housing was essential to 
healthy animal life. 

Largely, then, the bad housing of to- 
day is due to the fact that people have been 
unable to pay for wholesome houses with 
wholesome surroundings, and when we con- 
sider the future it must be from the point 

7 



Housing and Public Health 

of view that never again must the labourer 
be allowed to suit the house to his wage, 
but rather the house must be suited to the 
minimal requirements of human life, and 
we must see to it that the wage is so raised 
that these requirements may be fulfilled. 

If there is one thing more important 
than another in housing, it is that human 
life demands at least a minimum standard 
of accommodation, of quality, and of en- 
vironment. An attempt is made in these 
pages to set out those standards. If rents 
are to be economic, as it is desirable they 
should be, it is obvious that the housing 
question will turn very largely upon the 
wages question. 

In erecting standards to-day we must be 
careful not to repeat the mistake made by 
our forefathers seventy years ago in setting 
the standards too low. Nay, more it is 
for us to consider, in the light of the know- 
ledge and experience we have acquired, 
whether it would not be wiser to provide 
something above the minimum for even 
the humblest of those around us. 



CHAPTER I 

The Influence of Bad Housing on the 
Health of the People 

HOUSE accommodation, with all that this includes, 
has a much more profound influence on health than 
is generally realised. Everywhere it is the custom 
to regard the dwelling-house as the important thing, 
and to disregard the environment. A town slum- 
dwelling may be structurally good, and yet, from 
its darkened surroundings, its absence of free air- 
supply, its soot-laden atmosphere, and its filthy 
environment, it may be one of the most unwhole- 
some of dwellings. It is probably true that, given 
equal capacity, a primitive and perhaps dilapidated 
"shack," situated in beautiful and open surround- 
ings, is a far more healthy dwelling than many 
of the best houses in a town. Or again, a pic- 
turesque, ivy-covered cottage in the country may, 
by reason of its dampness, its bad lighting, and its 
absence of any adequate ventilation inside, be one 
of the most unwholesome of dwellings. It is, 
therefore, extremely important, in reviewing the 
housing question, to bear in mind not only the 

9 



Housing and Public Health 

dwelling itself, but its environment. Both play 
important parts in producing ill-health, and both 
require to be kept in view when the means of 
bettering present conditions are under consider- 
ation. 

It has always been difficult to dissociate the 
harm done by housing from other social and 
economic problems ; indeed, in any statistics which 
are given it is impossible to say how much of the 
harm is due to housing and how much to these 
other social defects. 

Responsiveness of slum- dwellers to improved 
housing There has always been a hesitancy 
in providing good housing conditions because 
of the fear that they would not be taken 
advantage of, and that the transference of 
the slum-dweller, either directly or indirectly, 
to better dwellings would not produce trie 
results which are expected. This is probably 
one of the most fallacious of views. There is 
ample evidence in every town that better con- 
ditions produce better tenants, and that the 
people themselves appreciate and take advantage 
of improved conditions. Those who have had the 
longest experience and the best opportunities of 
observing these changes are the most decided in 
their opinion. 

True, it is impossible immediately to change 
the nature of the slum population by trans- 

10 



Bad Housing 

ferring them to better conditions; but such 
an immediate transference never takes place in 
practice. We have seen the value of great changes 
as we have watched the results of the introduction 
of a water-carriage system. Within a few years 
people who had never had the chance of using the 
water-closet have become educated into using it 
properly, and appreciate the change from the old 
condition of a stinking privy midden to the modern 
water-carriage system. 

For many years every obstacle was put in the 
way of providing the working classes with the 
water-carriage system. But in most towns it has 
now been introduced, with results which have been 
astonishingly good. In Birmingham, for example, 
the cases of enteric fever have fallen in number 
during the past fifteen years from approximately 
800 per annum to approximately 20 per annum, 
largely as a result of removing the revoltingly 
filthy conditions which the people formerly had 
to endure. 

This is only one of many similar illustrations 
of the direct value of better conditions, and of the 
readiness of the people to appreciate them. 

If one takes the older portion of any large 
city it will be found that the mortality-rate is 
high, and that it has been continuously high for 
half a century. If in these same towns you look 
at the more recently built portions, where the great 

ii 



Housing and Public Health 

bulk of the skilled artisans live, you will find that 
in them the mortality-rate is low. Yet not many 
years ago these same better-class artisans would 
have lived in the districts where now the high 
death-rate rules and where the death-rate has 
always been high. That is to say, the change in 
their death-rate is largely due to their better hous- 
ing and other conditions. 

Bad housing, while mainly limited to the poorer 
parts of our towns, is not without influence on 
other groups of the community. There is probably 
no medical man who could not mention groups of 
cases of tuberculosis largely due to residence in 
good-class houses where the lighting and free 
supply of fresh air are so defective as to predispose 
to the disease. 

Much statistical information is available in every 
town to show that where families live under bad 
housing conditions, there the general mortality is 
high, and sickness is so frequent as to involve a 
large expenditure. 

In Glasgow it is a custom for the poor to live 
in one- or two-roomed houses in tenement build- 
ings. Somewhat over 60 per cent, of the whole 
population live under such conditions. Dr. Chal- 
mers, the Medical Officer of Health of the city, 
has reported that the mortality-rates in these 
houses as compared with larger houses were as 
follows : 

12 



Bad Housing 



Death -rate 

One-roomed houses . . . .25-9 per 1,000 
Two-roomed houses . . . . 16-5 ,, ,, 
Three-roomed houses . . . . 11-5 ,, 
Four-roomed houses . . . .10-8,, 

That is to say, the one-roomed houses, with a 
population of 104,000 persons (a population equal 
to that of the whole of Halifax or Wolverhampton), 
had a death-rate more than double that of three- 
roomed houses, with a population of 160,000 
persons. 

Unhealthy areas. If, instead of individual 
houses, one takes whole areas and compares these 
with other areas, one gets similar remarkable 
differences. In the first group of figures that 
follow are set out the results obtained in two 
Birmingham areas; one mostly a poor area 
with the worst dwellings and the worst en- 
vironment, and the other a fair-class artisan area 
with moderately good houses, though not suffi- 
ciently good. It will be noted that, compared with 
the fair-class area, the death-rate in the bad area 
is nearly double, and the infant-mortality rate 
double; that the death-rate from tuberculosis is 
very much higher, from measles nearly three times 
as high, and from diarrhoea and enteritis nearly 
four times as high. Similar figures are given for 
areas in Liverpool, Manchester, London, and 
Aberdeen. 



Housing and Public Health 



DEATH-RATES, ETC., IN DIFFERENT AREAS OF 
THE SAME TOWN 



BIRMINGHAM (5 YEARS) 

Bad 
area 

. 154,662 
1,921 

2I-I 

. 32-8 
171 
tuber- 



Population . 
Area (in acres) 

Death-rate 

Birth-rate 

Infant-mortality rate 

Deaths from pulmonary 

culosis .... 

Pulmonary tuberculosis death- 
rate 

Deaths from measles 

Measles death-rate . 

Deaths from diarrhoea and enter- 
itis 

Diarrhoea and enteritis death- 
rate , 



1-93 
647 
0-83 

1,126 



Fair 
artisan 
area 
133.623 
2,998- 
12-3 
24-0 
89 

742 

i-il 

161 

0-24 

238 
0-36 



LIVERPOOL (5 YEARS) 

Bad 
area 

Population . . . .44,616 
Area (in acres) .... 391 
Families or separate occupiers 9,802 
Death-rate . . . -27-5 
Birth-rate . . . . 38-9 
Infant-mortality rate . .164 
Pulmonary tuberculosis death- 
rate (3 years) . . 2-14 



Another populous 

area with large 

artisan population 

85,118 

675 

17.939 
17-8 
29-5 
123 

173 



Bad Housing 



LIVERPOOL (5 YEARS) continued 

p , Another populous 
^ Y area with large 

artisan population 
i-io .. 0-32 



Measles death-rate (3 years) . 
Diarrhoea and enteritis death- 
rate (3 years) . 



3-17 



MANCHESTER (5 YEARS) 
Bad 
area 

Population 88,737 

Area (in acres) .... 898 
Death-rate . . . .23-86 
Birth-rate . . . .29-01 
Infant-mortality rate . . 166-3 
Pulmonary tuberculosis death- 
rate 3.32 

Measles death-rate . . . 0-85 
Diarrhoea and enteritis deaths 
under 2 years of age per 1,000 
births . . . 49-30 



i -oo 

Populous 
area, mainly 
artisan 

86,299 

3.252 

12-93 

21-77 

111-57 

1-07 
0-30 



20-01 



LONDON (5 YEARS) 

Bad 
area 

Population 111,390 

Area (in acres) .... 658 
Death-rate . . . .18-6 
Birth-rate . . . . 32-1 
Infant-mortality rate . . 147 
Pulmonary tuberculosis death- 
rate 1-81 

Measles death-rate . . . 0-92 
Diarrhoea and enteritis death-rate i -47 

15 



Mainly 

artisan 

area 

121,376 
8,277 
12-4 
23-4 
83 

1-27 
0-24 
0-36 



Housing and Public Health 

ABERDEEN (1911 AND 1912 COMBINED) 

Rubishaw Greyfriars 

Population . . . . . 20,210 . . 13,850 

Death-rate . . . . 10-2 . . 16-3 

Birth-rate . . . . 16-2 . . 34-1 

Infant-mortality rate . 83 . . 170 

Excess of births over deaths . 6-0 . . 17-8 
Death-rate per 1,000 : 

Zymotic disease . . . 0-8 . . 3-1 

Pulmonary tuberculosis . 0-6 .. 1-3 

Other forms of tuberculosis . 0-2 . . 0-7 

In considering these groups of figures for un- 
healthy areas, it is well to bear in mind that they 
would have been worse but for the fact that every 
year, even into the slummiest areas of our towns, 
there is a considerable migration of healthy country 
stock, which, being more resistant to disease 
than is the slum-dweller, prevents the figures from 
mounting so high as they would otherwise have 
done. 

Many attempts have been made to estimate 
the total loss of life to be ascribed to unwhole- 
some areas, and figures have been frequently 
obtained which stagger the imagination. It is, 
for instance, computed that in the unwholesome 
areas of London and the county boroughs 
of England there is, in the twenty millions of 
people living in these towns, an annual loss of 
50,000 lives which ought not to occur a loss over 
and above the average mortality in the ordinary 

16 



Bad Housing 

artisan areas. It has already been pointed out 
that with a death-rate of 10 per 1,000 a death-/ 
rate which ought to be easily attainable over 
200,000 lives per annum would be saved. 

Army rejects and unwholesome conditions of 
life. Many other illustrations could be given of 
the harm resulting from unwholesome conditions 
of life. Perhaps the best is that of the recruit- 
ing officer during the War. The figures are 
misleading and inaccurate in certain details, but 
the general conclusions are valuable. It has 
been said, probably correctly, that something 
under 40 per cent, of the adult population could 
be classed as Ai in the grouping for Army 
purposes. 

We must bear in mind, however, that many of 
the men rejected for the Army are perfectly sound 
and wholesome lives for civilian purposes. For 
example, a man who was rejected because of a 
rupture, or defective vision, or varicose veins, or 
any other of a hundred minor ailments, would be 
classed as a healthy life from the civil point of 
view, so that the figure of 40 per cent, is mis- 
leading. While this is so, however, there can 
be no question that the defective physique and 
stamina of a large number of these rejects was due 
to the unwholesome conditions under which they 
had lived and worked. No one who was constantly 
seeing the troops in training could fail to be im- 

c 17 



Housing and Public Health 

pressed with the immense difference between those 
from rural areas and those from the slum portions 
of towns. There was a difference not only in 
physique, but in mentality, recruits from the rural 
areas being wholesome-minded, while those from 
the slums were unhealthy in mind as well as un- 
developed in body. 



18 



CHAPTER II 

The Structural Requirements of a 
Healthy Dwelling 

THE theme of the present chapter is the structural 
conditions of a healthy dwelling. In Chapter III. 
the environment of the house will be considered, 
and in Chapter IV. the more general requirements, 
in the way of means of transport, facilities for re- 
creation, etc. 

Before entering into structural details, a re'sume' 
of these three groups of requirements may be 
given, as follows : 

(a) The dwelling 

1. The dwelling must be weather-proof. 

2. It must protect against extremes of tem- 

perature. 

3. It must be dry, not only in its walls and 

roof, but also and this is more impor- 
tant still in its floor. 

4. The internal structure must be such as to 

enable it to be kept clean. 

5. The size should be proportionate to the 

'9 



Housing and Public Health 

number of people occupying it, so as 
to prevent overcrowding. 

6. It should have adequate sunlight and ef- 

ficient ventilation. 

7. The internal arrangements should be such 

as to lessen house work. 

8. It should have a sufficient water supply, and 

in the case of town houses this should 
be laid on inside. 

9. It should be provided with a bath. 

(b) The environment 

1. The house and garden or yard should be 

self-contained. 

2. The area allotted to each dwelling must be 

sufficient to permit of free circulation 
of air and direct access of sunlight. 

3. Either inside the dwelling or immediately 

adjoining outside there must be a water- 
closet, together with adequate drainage 
arrangements to carry off all liquid 
organic matter. 

4. Provision must be made for the storage and 

frequent removal of solid refuse. 

5. Facilities must be provided for the home 

washing and drying of clothes. 

6. Provision must be made to prevent soakage 

of filth into the ground in the immediate 
vicinity of the house. 

20 



Structural Requirements 

(c) General provisions 

1. The house should have good general 

amenity in its surroundings. 

2. The area in which it is erected should be 

free from soot or grit in the air, or 
effluvium, or noise, or nuisances from 
factories. 

3. There should be in the immediate neigh- 

bourhood sufficient transport facilities. 

4. Provision is necessary for the recreation of 

the occupants in the open air, and for 
institutes. 

5. Provision should be made for gardens, 

allotments, etc., and for the general 
beautifying of the environment by tree 
planting, etc. 

We may now embark upon the subject proper 
of the present chapter, viz. the structural require- 
ments of a healthy dwelling. 

Protection from the weather. The fact that a 
house is not weather-proof appeals, perhaps, to 
the uninitiated more than any other feature as the 
one which makes a house uninhabitable. It must 
not, however, be overlooked that all of us can 
stand exposure to weather to a quite remarkable 
degree. Barely thirty years ago it was the custom 
to advise that a delicate lady who was suffering 

21 



Housing and Public Health 

from early pulmonary tuberculosis should be kept 
in a room with a fire burning both day and night, 
and with sandbags placed at the window and door 
to keep out draught. Such a patient generally 
went from bad to worse and died. To-day, for a 
tuberculous patient, a bed in the open air, with 
protection merely from the rain and the worst 
of the wind, is the treatment in vogue. No fire is 
provided, but heat is given by hot-water bottles, 
and the moving air is allowed to pj^y freely all 
round. The effect of the "weather," under such 
conditions, is often wonderful in reducing cough, 
bringing down the temperature, doing away with 
night sweats, increasing the appetite, and improv- 
ing the patient's sense of well-being. The two 
essentials for such a delicate person exposed to 
moving air are sufficiency of nourishing food and 
adequate clothing. 

Again, open-air schools demonstrate the harm- 
lessness of the "weather," if there is a minimum 
of protection and the food and clothing are good 
and sufficient. The exposure of our soldiers to 
inclement weather further demonstrates the fact 
that free air supply and even low temperatures do 
not of themselves cause illness, but rather that this 
free exposure to atmospheric influences is stimu- 
lating and health-giving. 

One must be careful, therefore, in condemning 
a dwelling as unwholesome because it is not 

22 



Structural Requirements 

weather-proof ; but in nearly all cases a house that 
is so dilapidated as not to be weather-proof is 
insanitary in other respects. And if such a house 
is occupied by people who are underfed and under- 
clad, exposure to the weather undoubtedly has 
ill effects, for the occupants are liable to contract 
infection from the many germs which flourish 
there. Moreover, while exposure to the weather 
is under certain conditions wholesome rather than 
the reverse, it is essential that for family life the 
house should be free from draughts and impervious 
to rain, so that the ordinary work of the family, 
such, for instance, as the bathing of the baby and 
other purely domestic operations, may go on 
without danger or discomfort. Access of weather 
must therefore be under control. 

Protection against extremes of temperature. 
Many dwelling-houses are so badly constructed 
as to be excessively hot in summer and excessively 
cold in winter. Nobody who has lived in a gal- 
vanised iron hut during hot weather and during 
cold weather can have failed to notice the difference 
between such a structure and a house with thick 
walls and a substantial roof. Two groups of people 
are definitely influenced by excessive heat inside a 
dwelling-house in summer time infants and 
invalids. 

Many of our present slum-dwellings have been 
erected without any regard to protection against 

23 



Housing and Public Health 

extremes of temperature. Particularly is this the 
case in the back-to-back houses which face south, 
and in single-roomed houses and tenements. If 
the walls and roofs of such houses are thin and 
badly constructed, it is not infrequent to find the 
maximum temperature inside the living-room 
running up to over 90 degrees Fahr. At such a 
temperature infants and invalids are apt to suffer 
in various ways. It is alleged by several German 
investigators that many of the deaths which we 
attribute to epidemic summer diarrhoea are really 
due to heat-stroke (Hitzslag). No one who has 
had charge of an infant can have failed to 
become aware of the distress it suffers in a room 
which is too warm, and every one who has had 
charge of invalids is aware of the more rapid pro- 
gress to recovery made in winter as compared with 
summer. For years it has been the rule in many 
sanatoria to place patients in the shade in the sum- 
mer, so as to keep them out of the heat, because 
it is well recognised that their progress, when 
exposed to heat, is so much slower. 

Too little attention has been paid in the past 
to the structure of the dwelling-house in regard to 
its capability of keeping out heat in summer and 
cold in winter. The upper storeys of cottages have 
frequently been built of 4>-in. walls, and the 
roof is correspondingly slight, with the result that 
in summer the bedrooms are unbearably hot, and 



Structural Requirements 

the dwellers undoubtedly have lowered vitality 
from occupying these rooms. Many attics, even 
in well-built houses, are so hot in summer and so 
cold in winter as to be extremely uncomfortable. 
It will be shown in a later chapter how much can 
be done to prevent the passage of heat through the 
walls of dwelling-houses. 

Dampness. This is one of the most important 
of the conditions which make a house unwhole- 
some. In its worst aspects it is due to defective 
construction during the period of industrial de- 
velopment, when porous bricks were used without 
a damp-course, and floors were laid with porous 
tiles without any concrete below. Such a house 
is not only damp but, because it is damp, is 
cold and chilly. Dampness rises from the 
ground through most building materials by 
reason of capillarity, and such dampness will 
usually rise in brick walls well into the bedroom 
storey. 

Experiments made with bricks from forty-four 
different sources showed that such bricks, on an 
average, take up 18 per cent, of their weight in 
water. Similarly, the porous tile which is generally 
used for kitchen floors absorbs 18 per cent, of its 
weight in water. Bricks taken from the walls of 
damp houses show that 15 per cent, of moisture 
is retained. It is therefore obvious that a brick 
wall may be condemned either because it is built 



Housing and Public Health 

of porous bricks and is exposed during wet weather, 
or because no damp-course has been provided. 

Any impervious material may be used as a 
damp-course, so long as the material is one that will 
not disintegrate in course of time. Probably a lead 
damp-course, the one used by the ancients, is best 
of all. Various bituminous compositions are now 
used, with very good results. But such a damp- 
course will not protect a wall from dampness if the 
material of which the wall is composed is porous, 
and therefore in practice it is important to secure 
that the materials of which a wall is built are not 
highly porous. In an area where grit stone is 
prevalent there are to be found stones which would 
otherwise make excellent building material but 
which are so porous that when rain is driven by 
wind against a wall built of such stone the water 
runs through considerable thicknesses of the wall 
and trickles down inside the building in pools. 

This, of course, is a very exceptional condition ; 
but between such stones as that described and an 
almost impervious material there are all gradations. 
Ordinary building bricks are seldom sufficiently 
impervious when built as a g-in. wall to keep the 
wall dry, and thus, in a very large number of the 
houses built of g-in. brickwork, the walls are either 
damp continuously, or are damp under special 
weather conditions. In all new buildings, there- 
fore, some form of protection, such as the inter- 

26 



Structural Requirements 

vention of a cavity, should be provided against 
dampness from this source. Two 4^-in. walls tied 
together will answer the purpose. Similarly, in 
most instances a i4-in. brick wall is sufficient. 

Another common method of obviating damp- 
ness is to rough-cast or cement the brickwork on 
the outside. The practical point to bear in mind is 
that for a really dry dwelling for the poorer classes 
a g-in. brick wall is not of itself sufficient. 

A defect, comparatively little understood, due 
to damp walls, is that mortar covering the inside 
of such walls undergoes a chemical change of 
probably a very complicated nature, causing the 
formation of hydroscopic lime salts ; hence the 
common opinion of builders that once a wall be- 
comes damp it will always be damp. In such a 
case, the mortar should be taken off and the wall 
rough-cast on the outside ; fresh plaster put on the 
inside will not then draw damp. It is important 
to remember this in repairing buildings which from 
any cause have become damp. 

Perhaps the most mischievous form of damp- 
ness is that arising from the fact that in many old 
dwellings the floor of the living-room is of tiles 
or stones laid on the damp soil. Evaporation from 
such a floor into the living-room is constantly 
going on, and it is impossible therefore to keep 
the living-room warm. There can be no doubt 
that such a condition lowers vitality. It is not 

27 



Housing and Public Health 

sufficient to lay these stones or tiles on a thin 
layer of sand or ashes. The only sufficient pro- 
tection is a layer of cement concrete under the tiles 
of the floor. It is a common occurrence to find 
in houses with damp floors that it is difficult to 
get the kitchen floor dry after it has been washed. 
This is due to the excess of moisture in the tiles. 
The provision of a cellar under the kitchen floor 
is advocated as a means of preventing dampness; 
but unless the floor is well constructed dampness 
will still travel laterally by porosity just as easily 
as it travels vertically. 

Capacity for being kept clean. The floors, 
walls, and woodwork generally should be smooth 
and capable of being washed or brushed or dusted. 
It is not uncommon for floors, especially tiled 
living-room floors, to be so uneven and broken 
from the chopping of sticks that it is quite im- 
possible to clean them. Similarly, walls which 
are cracked or which have the plaster knocked off 
cannot be properly cleaned. Loose and defective 
woodwork allows large accumulations of dust, and 
in this respect skirting boards and all match- 
boarding are an abomination; they harbour not 
only dust, but all that dust means. 

During the great industrial development of 
this country the bedroom floors in many areas 
were laid with boards which were not tongued and 
grooved, with the result that in the course of many 

28 



Structural Requirements 

years large quantities of dust have accumulated 
underneath the floor boards and on the top of the 
living-room ceiling. Frequently as much as an 
inch of dust is found to have passed through the 
floor in these circumstances, and it is possible to 
hatch out fleas and to grow a great variety of 
micro-organisms from such dust. In one instance 
dust from underneath a floor was administered to 
guinea-pigs, which developed tuberculosis. A 
house with dust under the floors and woodwork 
smells stuffy, and although such dust is not often 
blown back into the dwelling-room, there is no 
doubt that at times this happens. Possibly this 
may be the cause of illnesses the origin of which 
cannot be accounted for on ordinary grounds. 

One of the reasons, therefore, for the high 
sickness-rate in slum areas is the inability to keep 
dilapidated houses clean, even if the people them- 
selves have a taste for cleanliness. The infectious 
nature of the dust has often been proved, particu- 
larly in the case of tuberculosis. Cornet and others 
have taken samples of dust from mantelshelves, 
picture-rails, and other parts of rooms which have 
been inhabited by careless consumptives, and the 
giving of such dust to guinea-pigs has transmitted 
the disease to them. Such investigations have been 
repeated on several occasions in this country, and 
it may be taken as indisputable that all ledges 
where dust can settle should be avoided. 

29 



Housing and Public Health 

The custom of building dwellings without 
plastering the interior, and thus leaving rough 
surfaces, is much to be deprecated. Such a wall 
can never be kept clean, and if the rough surface 
of the brick Is left it catches and retains dust, and 
the place becomes unwholesome. Unfortunately, 
not only houses but many schools have been erected 
with these rough brick walls. 

Overcrowding. When the subject of bad 
housing is discussed, overcrowding is usually the 
condition which appeals most to those who desire 
that better accommodation should be provided. 
It must, however, be clearly understood that over- 
crowding is seldom more than relative, and it is 
therefore very difficult to formulate standards for 
the number of houses which may be erected on 
any given area, or for the number of individuals 
who may occupy any dwelling-house, if really 
effective precautions are taken thoroughly to 
ventilate the parts occupied. 

The accompanying little plan (Fig. i) of a very- 
crowded area in Birmingham contains houses at 
the rate of 16 per acre, and a population at the 
rate of 61 per acre. Yet both of these figures come 
well within the limits of our housing and town- 
planning schemes. The fact is that the area in 
question is overcrowded by being occupied not only 
with dwellings but with works of various kinds. 

It is possible, of course, so to arrange the ven- 
30 



Structural Requirements 

tilation of a dwelling as to enable large numbers 
of persons to occupy and sleep in the house without 




Fig. 1. Area in Birmingham crowded with dwellings 
and factories. 

(From tJie Ordnance Survey.) 

detriment to health. But while this is so, there 
is nothing which does more harm to the community 
than overcrowding, be it overcrowding on space or 
overcrowding in rooms. 



Housing and Public Health 

Let us first consider the overcrowding of a 
dwelling. The old idea was that the products of 
respiration accumulated to such an extent in an 
occupied room as slowly to poison the occupants. 
We now know that the real causes of the damage 
done by overcrowding are (i) the stagnation of air, 
and (2) the spread of infection due to the proximity 
of the inmates to one another. In an ordinary 
cottage a small ventilator in the pantry or scullery 
is sufficient in nearly all cases to keep the respi- 
ratory carbonic acid in the bedrooms down to a 
reasonable limit, but nothing short of the open 
window and open chimney will enable a sufficient 
amount of moving air to pass across the rooms. 
Prof. Leonard Hill, in his Report to the Local 
Government Board on Ventilation, in July, 1914, 
has brought together a large amount of evidence to 
demonstrate the need for the ventilation of rooms 
to be so good as to cause the air to be in continuous 
motion. The bracing effect of a walk on a windy 
day is largely due to the movement of the air. 
Similarly, the sound sleep, and the feeling of fresh- 
ness resulting from sleep, in a well-ventilated room 
are largely due to movement of the air. 

One of the features of a slum area is the number 
of dwellers who are afraid of opening a window, 
and particularly a bedroom window. In part this 
is due to ignorance, but mainly it is due to in- 
sufficient food and insufficient bedclothing. During 

32 



Structural Requirements 

recent years observations have been made of the 
number of bedroom windows open in houses of 
different rentals. These observations were generally 
made in spring and summer, and they showed that 
the number of open bedroom windows was in pro- 
portion to the rental. In the poorest areas during 
the heat of summer less than 10 per cent, of the 
bedroom windows were open, and in winter less 
than 2 per cent. 

Spray infection. The greatest harm done by 
overcrowding is that due to spray infection from 
the mouth or nose. For many years it has been 
said that tuberculosis runs in families. The real 
explanation is that spray infection from one case 
infects the other members of the family. It is a 
question not of heredity but of infection. We now 
know that many diseases are spread by spray in- 
fection from the mouth or nose of an infected to 
a susceptible person during coughing, sneezing, 
or loud talking. 

No more convincing demonstration of this could 
have oeen given than the evidence obtained among 
the troops during the War. So long ago as 1861 
a Royal Commission laid down as the standard for 
soldiers in barracks in peace time 60 sq. ft. of floor 
space per man, and 600 cub. ft. of air space. This 
floor space is reduced to 40 sq. ft. in war time. In 
the barracks or huts which served our soldiers 
during the War it has been found that with ade- 

D 33 



Housing and Public Health 

quate ventilation and this in winter necessitates 
a sufficient supply of blankets the men have 
remained uniformly healthy, even under bad 
weather conditions. On the other hand, it has 
been found with a regularity which is remarkable 
that any reduction of the floor space below 40 sq. 
ft. per man is sooner or later followed by outbreaks 
of disease, such as coryza, measles, cerebro-spinal 
fever, sore throat, and other ailments that are 
conveyed by spray infection. 

The temporary huts erected during the War 
were of two sizes 20 ft. wide and 15 ft. wide. The 
narrower hut allowed 5 ft. 6 in. between the mouths 
of adjacent soldiers, while the wider hut allowed 
only 4 ft. 4 in. In every instance the narrow 
hut scored when the conditions were comparable. 
Similarly, in transports and in merchant ships the 
placing of hammocks close to one another has been 
followed by disastrous outbreaks of the diseases 
spread by spray infection. 

There can be little doubt, therefore, that one 
of the most serious results of overcrowding is 
infection by reason of proximity of the dwellers 
to one another. It is probable that an interval 
of at least 4 ft. 6 in. should be maintained. 

Certain other standards as to overcrowding 
have existed for many years. The Registrar- 
General has assumed that a house is overcrowded 
if occupied on an average by more than two per- 

34 



Structural Requirements 

sons per inhabited room. Based on this standard, 
the twelve largest towns in England showed over- 
crowding in varying degrees, from 43 per 1,000 in 
excess in Nottingham to 316 per 1,000 in excess in 
Newcastle, the excess figure for London being 177, 
for Birmingham 100, for Liverpool 101, for Man- 
chester 72, and for Leeds 112. In the main this 
standard is useful, but obviously it is open to 
criticism, for it does not take into consideration 
the size of the rooms or the use made of them. It 
is, for instance, not at all infrequent to find slum- 
dwellers huddling together in one bedroom and 
leaving one or two other bedrooms unoccupied 
because of lack of furniture or bedclothes. 

Another standard of overcrowding often used 
is that contained in the bye-laws regulating houses 
let in lodgings. It is usually 500 cub. ft. per adult 
and 250 cub. ft. per child under 10 years of age. 
The Royal Commission on Housing of the Indus- 
trial Population in Scotland, in their excellent 
Report (Cd. 8731), recommended that these figures 
should be fixed as a standard for general adoption 
in cottage property. If one assumes that a bed- 
room is 8 ft. high, this would require 62% sq. ft. of 
floor space per adult, a figure which closely 
approximates to that which has been found during 
the past half century to be a sufficient standard 
for barracks. 

Overcrowding on space. By this is meant the 

35 



Housing and Public Health 

number of houses per acre of land. It is now 
generally recognised by the best authorities that 
there ought not to be more than 12 houses to 
the gross acre. In many working-class residen- 
tial areas, built on the best models, the number 
is considerably less. If 12 houses per acre is 
taken as a minimum and 4^ persons are allowed 
for each house, we have 54 persons per acre. In 
the most congested area of Birmingham there are 
loo persons per acre. In the artisan area already 
mentioned there are 44 persons per acre, in the 
bad area of Liverpool 144, and in that of Man- 
chester 98. In the six largest towns the average 
density at the 1911 Census was as follows :] 

London . . .60-4 persons per acre. 

Glasgow . . .61-9 

Birmingham . . .19-3 

Liverpool . . .44-9 ,, ,, 

Manchester . . .33-0 ,, 

Leeds . . . .20-6 

In London the density at the last Census varied 
from 169 at Southwark to 14.7 at Woolwich. In 
Birmingham the variation at the Census was from 
i.i to 97.2. In the central districts of a town, 
where tenements prevailed, the number was higher. 

Any general statement of population in con- 
nection with acreage is apt to be somewhat mis- 
leading, because in many of the areas where the 

36 



Structural Requirements 

population is not large the district is still over- 
crowded by reason of the presence of factories and 
other buildings. This is indeed a very important 
cause of overcrowding on space, because such 
buildings shut out light and air, they make the 
dwellings dirty by the soot and dust which they 
emit, and they render the houses less habitable 
by the noise occasioned by machinery, transport, 
and in other ways. 

It has not been sufficiently recognised in the 
past that some of our most overcrowded areas, and 
indeed many cottages which are the most unwhole- 
some, are made so by the utilisation of every bit 
of spare space for factories, workshops, and com- 
mercial buildings of all kinds. One of the great 
advantages of town planning lies in the fact that 
it is possible now to prohibit such buildings, unless 
with the sanction of the local authority, in a town- 
planned area. 

The more recent bye-laws in regard to new 
buildings provide a certain safeguard against over- 
crowding on space, because such bye-laws provide 
for at least 300 sq. ft. of yard space in the rear of 
a cottage, and require that the dwelling shall be 
built to face a road of definite width, the space 
in the rear and the road in front being governed 
by the height of the building. 

In former days it was the custom, in order to 
erect the largest possible number of small houses 

37 



Housing and Public Health 

in a particular area, to group them in courtyards 
or in narrow streets or back lanes, with the result 
that we have large masses of the poorest classes 
crowded together and using in common the space 
round the dwellings. To make matters worse, 
much of the space in the vicinity of the dwellings 
is occupied by smoky works. Thus there is to- 
day an urgent need for thinning out the buildings 
on many areas in the centres of towns. 

To recapitulate, the real harm from overcrowd- 
ing is due mainly to three conditions, viz. (i) lack 
of appreciation of the value of moving air by the 
tenant, (2) ignorance of the fact that infection 
is spread by spray from the nose and mouth, 
(3) the erection of dwellings and other buildings in 
too close proximity to one another. 

Ventilation. From what has already been said 
it will be apparent that a dwelling-house which 
cannot be abundantly flushed with moving air 
must be regarded as unwholesome. Usually the 
chimney in a room acts as an excellent ven- 
tilator, causing suction of air through the room, 
particularly if the window or door be open. In 
rooms where there is no chimney it is essential that 
there should be some special ventilator an air- 
brick or a Sheringham valve which should be 
situated in the wall opposite, or at least far removed 
from, the window. Many country cottages are 
very unwholesome because of the absence of win- 

38 



Structural Requirements 

dows which open and of fireplaces with chimneys 
which ventilate. 

The best test as to whether a room is sufficiently 
flushed with moving air is one of the simplest and 
most easily applied. It is only necessary to remain 
in the open air for a minute or two and then enter 
the room to be tested. It will be at once found 
that where there is no through current of air 
stuffiness, a disagreeable smell, is very noticeable. 
If the test be applied to an occupied bedroom in 
almost any house, unless the window and chimney 
have been kept open, one is sensible of an un- 
mistakable odour. Medical men who are accus- 
tomed to enter the sleeping-rooms of the sick at 
unexpected times know how impure and offen- 
sive the air usually is; indeed, one a famous 
surgeon used regularly to carry a stick to 
ventilate such rooms by knocking out a pane of 
glass. 

It is frequently said that back-to-back houses 
are very unwholesome because of lack of venti- 
lation. This is true only to a very limited extent 
so far as internal ventilation is concerned, because 
with a window and fireplace most of the rooms in 
a back-to-back house can be almost as efficiently 
ventilated as the rooms in an ordinary house. The 
real disadvantage of back-to-back houses is the lack 
of air space round the dwelling and the impossi- 
bility of providing sanitary accommodation to 

39 



Housing and Public Health 

make them self-contained. Usually they are left 
to be occupied by the poorest members of the com- 
munity. Such houses are often the dirtiest and 
most dilapidated. Thus it is conditions other than 
internal ventilation which make back-to-back 
houses so extremely undesirable. 

Lighting. Inadequate lighting, next to in- 
sufficient air supply and dirtiness, is perhaps the 
most injurious defect in a dwelling-house. Un- 
fortunately, we have no easily applied test for 
ascertaining the minimum of sunlight, direct or 
indirect, compatible with health. That badly 
lighted rooms, with their dullness and gloom, have 
a prejudicial influence on the health of the occu- 
pants is beyond doubt. Such conditions cause a 
lowering of resistance, and, therefore, increased 
susceptibility to a large number of diseases. In 
the back-to-back houses of Birmingham there is a 
definitely higher incidence of disease and of death 
in those in which the windows face due north, 
than in those in which the windows face due 
south. Five hundred of such houses were taken in 
two groups, one looking north and the other look- 
ing south, for a period of five years. The number 
of deaths in the houses looking north was 145 ; in 
those looking south, 13-9. 

Everybody is familiar with the evil effect of bad 
lighting on the health of those who have to work 
in basements, where there is no direct sunlight. 

40 



Structural Requirements 

The condition of anaemia and ill-health which re- 
sults is obvious. As a general rule, the workers in 
such premises frequently change into more healthy 
surroundings, and in this way the maximum 
amount of harm is avoided. 

It may here be asked why coal miners are as a 
class relatively healthy. The reply is that the coal 
miner works in ventilated mines and with sterile 
materials conditions very different from the 
germ -laden air of basements and ill -ventilated 
houses. 

Apart from its stimulating influence on the 
human body, sunlight, by destroying germs, plays 
a very important part in purifying the particulate 
matter in the air. This can easily be demonstrated 
by planting germs upon some suitable nutritive 
material in dishes and then keeping some of the 
dishes in the light and others in the dark. The 
germs in those exposed to sunlight are rapidly 
killed, while those placed in the dark grow and 
multiply with great vigour. By means of the 
spectroscope it is possible to take sunlight and 
dissect it into its component parts, violet through 
yellow to red, just as in the rainbow. It is the 
violet rays, or rather the rays beyond the violet 
end of the spectrum the ultra-violet rays which 
are lethal to germs of all kinds, and are so stimu- 
lating to plant growth. It is for this reason that 
the morning sunlight is more valuable than the 



Housing and Public Health 

evening sunlight, both for plant growth and for 
purifying purposes. 

Four causes may be mentioned which keep out 
the sunlight from poor-class dwellings : (i) The 
windows may face due north, or approximately due 
north; (2) they may be of insufficient size; (3) the 
light may be obstructed by unclean window panes 
or by curtains, or (4) by adjacent buildings. The 
effects of the lack of sunlight in living-rooms which 
face due north have already been mentioned. 

Deficient window-size is, perhaps, more notice- 
able in the country than in the town. Many of our 
most elegant country cottages have small, low 
windows. Where the best conditions for health 
have to be provided, as in hospitals and sanatoria, 
care is now taken that the windows shall extend 
to, or nearly to, the ceiling, so as to obtain the 
maximum amount of light. The most recent bye- 
laws require for a new house that each room shall 
have a window, clear of obstruction, equal in area 
to one-tenth of the floor space of the room, and 
also that at least one-half of that window area shall 
be made to open. It is obvious that such a 
standard is not a very scientific one, because the 
effective lighting of a room will depend largely 
upon its shape; but on the whole, for dwelling- 
houses, the bye-law standard is a good and 
sufficient working basis. The really harmful 
window is, as already mentioned, that often met 

42 



Structural Requirements 

with in country cottages, consisting of one or two 
small panes of glass, which are puttied in, and 
which give insufficient light and no ventilation. 

Curtains. Even where adequate window-area 
is provided, it is very common to find that much 
of the light is obstructed by curtains of various 
kinds. Largely, this provision of curtains is made 
to secure privacy within the dwelling. But in the 
designing of a house privacy should be secured at 
a less cost than that of shutting out sunlight, and 
this can be done by setting back the dwelling from 
the road and using low curtains. 

Some tenants fear that the sun will damage 
their furniture and coloured articles, and they keep 
out sunlight for this reason. Others, in large 
towns, allow the windows to become so dirty that 
an appreciable amount of light is shut out. In 
these cases it is the tar and soot from smoke which 
cause the windows to become obscured. The tar 
forms a yellow coating on the glass, which acts 
almost as effectively in shutting out the valuable 
rays as does the red glass in a photographer's dark 
room. 

Water supply. It will be a surprise to many 
who are not familiar with the homes of the lower 
industrial classes to know that a considerable 
number of dwellings in most of our large towns 
have no inside water supply. In the year 1913 
there were 43,000 dwelling-houses in Birmingham 

43 



Housing and Public Health 

without such a water supply. Usually in these 
cases the supply is derived from a standpipe near 
to but outside the house. In the country there are, 
of course, but few labouring men's dwellings with 
an internal water supply. In the case of the town 
dwelling there is an undoubted necessity for a 
water supply inside, and a house without such a 
supply ought to be considered unfit for human 
habitation. 

Those who are familiar with the domestic re- 
quirements of the poorer artisans in a town are 
unanimous in testifying that the absence of an 
internal water supply is one of the chief causes 
of dirtiness, often to a degree which produces ill- 
health. A water supply inside a dwelling means 
that there is, in addition, a sink and wastepipe, 
and with such a provision the minimum of clean- 
liness is provided for. Personal ablution can be 
carried out with relatively little inconvenience, and 
the washing of floors, clothes, etc., is easy, as 
compared with a house where every drop of water 
has to be carried in and every drop of slop water 
has to be carried out. 

The question arises whether in. the old dwell- 
ing-houses in our towns it is possible to provide 
a water supply and a sink in the only living-room 
of the house. Unless this is well done the walls 
are apt to become damp. So far as can be ascer- 
tained, such a provision, although objected to by 

44 



Structural Requirements 

the authorities in many English towns, is the 
regular custom in Scotland and in Continental 
and American towns, where not only is there a 
sink in the kitchen, but in the better-class houses 
there is also a washing-basin, with hot and cold 
water, in every bedroom. 

For practical purposes there exists no legal 
power of requiring a supply of water to be laid on 
inside a dwelling-house. 

In the country the problem of supplying cot- 
tages with water takes quite a different form. In 
the vast majority of cottages it is impracticable to 
lay on an interior supply, and the first question 
which arises, therefore, is as to what should be 
considered a reasonably available supply, and, 
secondly, whether the supply is wholesome. Many 
decisions have been given in the law courts as to 
the distance which is to be considered reasonable 
between the cottage and the source of supply. 
Probably every case must be judged on its own 
merits. Where it is possible to supply water, say, 
within 50 yards, a well as far as 500 yards away 
might be considered unreasonably distant. Water 
at a greater distance than a quarter of a mile is 
too far away for hand carriage, and in such cases 
it is desirable that some provision be made for 
conveying it in a tank. 

As to the wholesomeness of the supply, the best 
rule to be guided by is that no water should be 

45 



Housing and Public Health 

used for domestic purposes which does not come 
from a well or spring or other source which in 
ordinary circumstances cannot be contaminated. 
Such a rule properly applied would do away with 
numerous wells in back yards and other places 
where they are liable to contamination. In many 
of these cases both chemical and bacteriological 
examination indicates that the water is of excellent 
quality, and yet from an inspection of the source 
it is clear that the water may become contaminated. 
A further question arises in connection with 
water supplies, viz. that of quantity. In the Navy 
about four gallons per head per day is required 
for all pitfposes, including personal ablutions and 
the washing of clothes. In many country cottages 
this amount is exceeded by one or two gallons. 
Where water has to be carried long distances by 
hand, the tenant will naturally be very reluctant 
to use more than is absolutely necessary. In certain 
instances, carefully recorded, of artisans' dwellings 
in a town, the amounts used per head, irrespec- 
tively of age, were 7, 6, 8^, 10, 12, 4^, and 5^ 
pints per day. In towns where the artisan classes 
predominate the amount used for domestic pur- 
poses seldom exceeds twelve gallons per day per 
head, provided that waste is prevented. If twelve 
gallons per head per day were to be used in a 
country cottage where there were six in the house- 
hold, this would mean no less than eighteen 

46 



Structural Requirements 

journeys with two buckets each containing two 
gallons, or twelve journeys with three-gallon 
buckets. It is obvious, therefore, that the absence 
of an internal water supply seriously interferes 
with the adequate use of water for cleansing 
purposes. 

Disease due to polluted water is fortunately 
nowadays as infrequent as it w r as formerly fre- 
quent. One might almost say that more harm 
now arises from dirtiness due to scarcity of water 
than from contaminated supplies. 

Baths. Few old cottages are provided with a 
bath. Indeed, baths in dwelling-houses are of 
very recent origin. It is equally true that our 
modern development of city life is also of recent 
origin, and that certain special provisions need to 
be made in order to keep the dwellers in crowded 
areas healthy. 

One of the essentials in every dwelling is a 
bath, and where a water supply and a sewer are 
available there ought to be a fixed bath. All sorts 
of schemes have been attempted to make it possible 
to supply a bath without having a bathroom, and 
although it is certain that some of the make-shift 
baths are better than none at all, opinion is now 
fairly definite that a bathroom ought to be pro- 
vided for every cottage. There is no reason what- 
ever why this bathroom should not have, in 
addition, a lavatory basin and a water closet, and 

47 



Housing and Public Health 

such a bathroom is much better on the bedroom 
floor than downstairs. 

It may be asked whether such a separate bath- 
room is essential. One even hears statements as 
to the frequent misuse of the bath. But there 
ought never to be any hesitation in providing a 
bathroom. Occasionally it will be used for some 
other purpose by those who are ignorant and have 
never had the pleasure of a bath, but in a very 
few years these people come to regard the bath- 
room as something that is indispensable. 

The really important reason for providing a 
bathroom is that, in its absence, the taking of a 
bath in the scullery or in the kitchen of an artisan's 
dwelling is surrounded by so many difficulties 
that the bath provided becomes more or less use- 
less. Yet it is just among these people that the 
need for frequent bathing is greatest, and, as I 
have said, they are fast coming to regard baths 
as necessities. It would be a retrograde step, 
therefore, not to provide a bathroom in new 
cottages. There is a small but definite proportion 
of people who seldom, if ever, have the oppor- 
tunity of washing more than their hands and faces. 
Occasionally these visit the public baths, while at 
other times they make shift with tubs, as did our 
forefathers. But public baths or cottage baths 
never can supply the needs of a community with 
a taste for cleanliness. Swimming-baths are of 

48 



Structural Requirements 

little value from the point of view of cleansing the 
skin, because they are used as a means of recrea- 
tion, and only during the few summer months. 

In a very large proportion of small houses the 
bedrooms are so congested with furniture that there 
is no room even for a tub ; nor are there reasonable 
facilities and privacy in the kitchen or scullery, 
and so these people go dirty. If this statement is 
doubted, it is only necessary to inquire of the 
casualty nurse in any of our large hospitals as to 
the number of adults admitted who have not re- 
cently had a bath. The medical profession know 
very well the extent of the need for regular wash- 
ing among the poorest of the community, who 
depend upon the cleansing effects of perspiration 
added to that of clean underclothes. In many 
cases wounds do not heal because of the dirty 
condition of the surface of the body, and this, of 
course, can only be prevented by regular bathing. 
The importance of a clean skin to the healing of 
wounds was recognised more effectively by the 
Japanese in the Russo-Japanese war than, perhaps, 
by any other nation up to that time. In most of 
their armies the men, before going into battle, 
were required to have a hot bath and put on clean 
clothes. The results showed a great reduction in 
the contamination of wounds by skin infection. 

Facilities for lessening house work. Many of 
our old cottages were constructed without any 

E 49 



Housing and Public Health 

regard for facilitating the work of the housewife. 
Washhouses and privies were erected long dis- 
tances from the dwelling, and many of the things 
already mentioned, such as rough surfaces, dilapi- 
dated walls and floors, and the absence of an 
internal water supply and sink, all added to the 
housewife's work. In planning new dwellings this 
consideration ought to be borne carefully in mind. 
In town dwellings the presence of a gas cooker 
is a great labour-saving device. It is at present 
doubtful whether electric current will ever be pro- 
duced at a cost which will enable it to be freely 
used for lighting, heating, and mechanical power 
in the town dwellings occupied by the artisan 
classes; but if it could be there would obviously 
be much saving of domestic labour. 



CHAPTER III 
The Space Allotted to the Dwelling 

SUFFICIENT space must be allowed for the free cir- 
culation of air on at least two opposite sides of 
every house. This space must be so clear of build- 
ings of all kinds and of trees so as to permit also 
the free access of sunlight. It is the absence of this 
free air space that constitutes one of the gravest 
defects of old buildings. Lofty factories or even 
high walls may block out light and air. A sooty 
wall absorbs white light so effectively that, in 
some cases, not more than one-eighth of the light 
falling on the wall is reflected. In windy weather 
the question of air space is less important, and were 
it possible to ensure a considerable amount of wind 
continuously it would not be so necessary to con- 
sider the buildings surrounding a dwelling-house 
from the point of view of air supply. But we have, 
of course, to provide for calm weather, when it is 
necessary to our sense of well-being that there 
should be an adequate blow-through of air in the 
dwelling. 

In the best town-planned areas the houses 



Housing and Public Health 

which may be erected to the acre are generally 
restricted to between eight and fifteen in number, 
and this in itself is usually sufficient to secure 
adequate space around dwellings. Again, in good 
model bye-laws there are stipulations that every 
dwelling shall on one side front a road of minimal 
width, and that on the opposite side there shall be 
a space 200 to 300 sq. ft. in area unoccupied by 
any building except a water-closet and washhouse. 
Many other detailed provisions are also made in 
bye-laws which indirectly secure an adequate 
supply of external air. 

In this connection no question arises as to the 
composition of the air. It is probable that except 
for soot and tar and sulphurous acid, and perhaps 
also certain other gases which are met with in the 
air, together with road dust of all kinds, the air of 
all our towns is good and wholesome, if in sufficient 
abundance. The question of what is best to be done 
in regard to the open space round houses to be 
built in the future is dealt with in Chap. V. 

Self-contained houses. There is, perhaps, no 
single feature which has had more to do with the 
disastrous effects of bad housing on the health of 
the people than the fact that a large number of 
the old houses are not self-contained. By a house 
being self-contained is meant that it shall be 
complete in its water supply, drainage, yard, and 
in every other respect. Houses not self-contained 

5* 



Environment 

are to be deprecated because accommodations 
which are used in common are looked after badly, 
and give rise to dirty habits and general careless- 
ness among the tenants, and also to quarrelling. 
The common courtyard is one of the most frequent 
sources of trouble. One dirty tenant in a court- 
yard is a source of annoyance and injury to the 
rest of the tenants, and all this reacts upon the 
children. It is impossible for the landlord or for 
the sanitary authority to hold any one individual 
responsible for dirty conditions, because one tenant 
can always blame another, and so such property 
goes from bad to worse. 

It is a common experience that water-closets 
used in common by a number of families are 
usually in a dirty and very often repulsive con- 
dition. Frequently, such closets have a urinal 
added, which makes them additionally objection- 
able, and renders it impossible for women of 
ordinary modesty to use them. It is indeed re- 
markable that the people who use these common 
conveniences have not rebelled years ago against an 
arrangement so repugnant to elementary decency. 

The subject is so important that it is desirable 
to lay it down as a rule which has but one ex- 
ception, that all dwellings should be self-contained 
if they are to be occupied by families, the exception 
mentioned being the common stairs leading to 
tenement houses. 

53 



Housing and Public Health 

From an administrative point of view, every 
sanitary inspector who has had experience of this 
class of property will testify how greatly his dif- 
ficulties are increased by the common use by 
families of conveniences, yards, water supplies, 
etc. He will also say how very unsatisfactory the 
law is at present in regard to the prevention of 
nuisances arising from "common user." As an 
example, if water-closets used in common are 
found to be in a filthy condition and the actual 
offender cannot be discovered, the law requires 
that a summons shall be taken out against every 
person using such closets men, women, and 
children ! In practice, such action is ridiculous. 
The common courtyard is, fortunately, becoming 
deserted by the self-respecting tenants, who 
appreciate the advantage of a self-contained house. 
The results have been that houses in most of these 
common courtyards are now occupied by the least 
desirable class of tenants, and their condition, 
therefore, is going from bad to worse. 

General drainage and other sanitary fittings. 
As already pointed out, it has been the custom 
in the past to provide only the minimum of 
sanitary fittings for the slum-dweller. Partly 
this was done because he was supposed not to 
need sanitary fittings, but also because he was 
known to be more or less destructive. But gradu- 
ally drains have been provided, water-closets put 

54 



Environment 

in, sinks provided inside the house, and also 
reasonable facilities for carrying off rain-water. 
Nothing gives rise to greater friction with tenants 
than inadequate provision of drainage, water- 
closets, ashbins, or washing accommodation. As 
previously stated, it is essential that every house 
should be self-contained in these respects. In the 
case of houses using a drain or a water-closet in 
common, such a drain is frequently situated oppo- 
site the front door of one house, and all the tenants 
have to come to it in order to empty their slop 
water. Such a proceeding is objected to by the 
occupier of the particular house, and quarrels result. 

The drainage arrangements of the older houses 
are frequently very defective, mainly because they 
were laid by builders who did not understand the 
general principles of drain construction. These 
drains leaked into cellars or wells, they were not 
disconnected from the sewers, and were frequently 
unventilated. In many of the older towns the 
house drains were built of rubble stones or of 
bricks, as glazed earthenware pipes were too 
expensive, and drain gullies were of antiquated 
types, frequently causing stench. 

Midden privies. There are still towns in Eng- 
land where midden privies of the most objection- 
able and disease-producing types exist. In other 
towns pan closets of various types are still in 
use. In yet other towns there are waste-water 

55 



Housing and Public Health 

closets of different kinds. All these abominations 
are inconsistent with the provision of reasonable 
conditions for cleanliness and the maintenance of 
good health. It seems almost unnecessary, with 
the vast experience of past years, to insist that, 
except in rural areas, there must be no storage 
of excrement or other foul matter in proximity to 
the dwelling. 

Innumerable reports have been made on the 
results of such conservancy systems. The experi- 
ence of Birmingham is similar to that of other 
towns. During the past fifteen years the removal 
of pan closets has been rapid and is now complete. 
In the same period the cases of typhoid fever have 
fallen from 800 per annum to 20 per annum. The 
probable explanation of this fall and of many 
similar reductions is to be found in the fact that 
excremental matter is no longer stored or allowed 
to soak into the ground near dwellings, but is 
removed by a clean-water-carriage system. 

Here again, so far as the town cottage dwell- 
ing is concerned, there is only one system which 
is permissible, and that is the clean-water system. 
Mention has been made of towns in which slop 
closets have been introduced. In a large number 
of cases these, either on account of their large 
fouled surfaces or from their liability to become 
choked, are unwholesome and disgustingly 
offensive. 

56 



Environment 

Removal of solid refuse. One feature which 
strikes visitors to a poor-class area, particularly 
a slum area, is the tendency to collect solid refuse 
and allow it to lie about. In many towns middens 
are the only means of collecting and storing this 
refuse. These middens probably play an equally 
important part with the privy in spreading disease. 

Experience enables us to lay down very defi- 
nitely the general proposition that for town areas 
all household refuse should be immediately placed 
in a covered ashbin, and removed not less fre- 
quently than once a week. We now know the part 
played by accumulations of refuse in causing 
disease on the one hand by allowing flies to breed 
and transfer filth from the ashplace to food, and 
on the other hand by such filth, when dry, being 
carried as dust into the dwelling. Nothing is more 
instructive than to watch the way in which flies 
pass from their breeding places in filth to food 
inside the houses. If flies are caught, let us say, 
in a stable manure pit and dusted with flour, it is 
possible to trace them into the neighbouring houses 
at regular intervals during the day. Flies cannot, 
of course, gain access to refuse which is kept 
covered, but if by chance any should breed in the 
ashbin the removal of its contents once a week 
will prevent the eggs from being hatched. 

It has been frequently advocated that in the 
case of cottage dwellings such refuse as has been 

57 



Housing and Public Health 

mentioned should be burned in the kitchen fire. 
This is a good plan where possible, but in the 
artisan's dwelling a fire is seldom available during 
the summer months, as most of the cooking is done 
by gas stoves. Frequently, too, the amount of 
vegetable refuse is rather large for the size of the 
fire. 

Surface pollution. Another feature which 
generally distinguishes an unwholesome area is 
the large amount of surface contamination in yards, 
passages, and streets by organic refuse from the 
houses and ashpits. It is not widely understood 
that all such contamination favours the generation 
of germs, and that these germs are blown about. 
Cats, dogs, fowl, and pigeons add to the con- 
tamination, so that in these unwholesome areas, 
where people are careless and dirty in their habits, 
considerable quantities of dried matter from the 
surface of the yards and roads are blown indis- 
criminately into the houses, whether these be clean 
or dirty. It is therefore extremely difficult for the 
clean tenant to keep his children as free from 
disease as he would be able to do under more 
favourable conditions. 

The slum-dweller does not understand, again, 
that water which he has used to wash his hands 
contains large quantities of organic matter, and 
also germs from human contamination. Yet it is 
a common habit among the people living in these 

58 



Environment 

areas to throw such organically polluted liquids 
on to the surface of yards and roadways. 

Was hhouses. Among the poor the cost of 
sending washing to a public laundry has, up to 
the present, been prohibitive. Facilities for wash- 
ing have been provided, in a few cases, by public 
washhouses, but in the large majority of cases 
washing is done at home or in small washhouses 
common to three or four dwellings, and used on 
successive days by the various tenants. Washing 
in these houses is always done under difficulties, 
and drying also is frequently an inconvenience. 
The result is dirtiness, less washing being done 
than would be done under more favourable con- 
ditions. 



59 



CHAPTER IV 

The General Requirements of the Dwelling 

MOST of our slum-dwellings are surrounded by 
other buildings, and in the centre of our large 
towns these buildings are dark and sooty, so that 
everything which is to be seen is ugly and repel- 
lent. No clean thing and no green thing is within 
sight. In many large towns the poorer children, 
until they are over school age, seldom, if ever, 
visit the country, and except in special instances 
public parks, where trees and grass grow healthily, 
are not accessible to them. The constant associa- 
tion from early life with soot-stained dwellings, 
soot-laden air, and clothing dirtied by soot, tends 
to prevent the individual from seeking to better 
himself and .his condition. The depressing and 
demoralising influence of ugliness and dirtiness is 
undeniably great. 

The presence of soot in the air of a town is not 
only unsightly but harmful, a large amount of 
sunlight being shut out. Soot in the air causes a 
clean and careful housewife to shut up her windows 
to keep out the "blacks." 

Many medical writers have asserted that the 
presence of soot and sulphurous acid in the air is 

60 



General Requirements 

a potent cause of lung trouble among town 
dwellers, and have brought forward figures which 
apparently show this to be the case. As already 
pointed out, the shutting out of the actinic or ultra- 
violet rays of sunlight by a cloud of smoke is a 
matter of great importance to health. The dif- 
ference is very noticeable to a photographer, who 
in the country can frequently take in an instant 
a photograph which would require an exposure 
a thousand times as long in a town. 

Transit facilities. It may be considered some- 
what anomalous to mention the subject of transit 
facilities as a requisite for housing, but when 
it is borne in mind that towns now spread over 
vast areas of ground, and that every indication 
points to their being spread over even larger 
areas in the future, the provision of transit facilities 
is seen to be of great importance in this connection. 

While it is not desirable that everybody should 
work in the centre and live in a suburb, large 
numbers will always require to travel backwards and 
forwards between their homes in the suburbs and 
their offices or warehouses in the business centre. 
For this reason it is important that the authorities 
dealing with town planning and the building of 
houses should be in very close touch with those 
controlling the means of transit. 

Means of recreation. It is necessary, in 
enumerating the needs of dwellers in small house 

61 



Housing and Public Health 

property, to consider also the provision of reason- 
able means of recreation. For little children there 
is a great need for small playgrounds, where they 
can be in the open air and more or less under 
control. Again, for boys and girls of older growth, 
playing fields are needed, and for adults, parks, 
theatres, gymnasia, libraries, etc. Most of these 
requirements are absent from the slum area. 

Dryness of site. In the vast majority of cases 
a town has increased in area despite the nature of 
its soil, and so long as no attempt is made to build 
on areas which are flooded, and therefore water- 
logged, there is not much evidence that the nature 
of the soil or its water content plays any important 
part in the production of illness, if reasonable pre- 
cautions are taken to cover the site with an imper- 
vious layer of concrete or asphalt. In many towns, 
however, there are areas where the soil is positively 
wet and where flooding occasionally takes place. 
These areas ought to be reserved for parks, or 
for works purposes. 

A great deal of attention has been paid to the 
composition of the soil on which towns are built. 
There is very little evidence, however, that a clay 
soil differs hygienically from sandy soil having 
the same elevation and slope. Many towns entirely 
built on a clay foundation have no larger pro- 
portion of cases of rheumatism than towns built 
on a sandy subsoil. 

62 



General Requirements 

Aspect. The importance of aspect has already 
been insisted upon. Generally speaking, it is 
possible to arrange for most of the new streets of 
a town to run from east to west, so that the houses 
face south, south-west, or south-east, in which case 
the living-rooms can be placed on the south side 
of the house and get the benefit of the sun. If 
one of these aspects can be obtained, from a purely 
health point of view south-east is probably better 
than south-west for living-rooms. 

Cellars. Cellars are, on the whole, undesirable 
in cottage property. This is mainly due to the 
fact that a cellar, if ventilated, causes cold, damp 
air to be drawn into the dwelling when it is 
warm, by convection currents. Again, with the 
poorer class of occupiers the cellar frequently 
becomes a place of deposit for rubbish. It is not 
a convenient place in which to store coal, because 
this has to be carried up a flight of steps when 
required for use. It is wise, therefore, to avoid 
cellars. 

Trade nuisances. In the older parts of our 
large towns, interspersed between the houses are 
many workshops and factories, and some of them 
give rise to intolerable nuisances, which it is 
difficult to prevent under the ordinary laws of the 
country. Smoke and grit from steam-engine 
chimneys or from metallurgical furnaces, dUiSt 
from the exhaust fans of factories, evil smells from 

63 



Housing and Public Health 

gut scraping, tripe boiling, and a hundred other 
industries, all make the conditions of life unwhole- 
some in the central areas of towns, and should be 
entirely prevented in the newer areas. In town 
planning, therefore, it is most important to obtain 
powers to prevent such trades from being 
established in residential districts. 



CHAPTER V 
The Future Housing of the People 

Two lines of work are indicated in this title, viz. 
(i) The building of new houses, and (2) the re- 
construction of old areas in such a way as to make 
them sufficient for the minimal requirements of 
healthy living. 

Before dealing with the first of these subjects it 
is well to consider a few general principles. 

First, it is very desirable that the best standard 
should be adopted now, so that we may not have 
to amend our buildings in the future. It would, 
for instance, be a fatal mistake to build labourers' 
dwellings without a parlour and a bathroom, or 
without a number of other amenities, although 
there may be a doubt in the minds of many people 
as to the reasonable necessity for them. The 
present book is written from the viewpoint that no 
attempt should be made to come down to the 
standard of the cottage at a rental of 25. 6d. per 
week for the agricultural labourer, or of 45. 6d. 
a week for the town worker. 

Another general principle is that care must be 

F 65 



Housing and Public Health 

taken to avoid conditions which, as yet, have not 
been sufficiently tested. For instance, it may be 
argued that tenement dwellings will meet all the 
reasonable requirements of the community, and 
statistics may be brought forward, as in the case 
of the Peabody Buildings, to show that such 
dwellings have very low mortality-rates. What, 
however, holds good of selected tenants for such 
buildings will not be applicable generally. 

There is a good deal of evidence to indicate 
that tenement dwellings are injurious to the health 
of children, but unless the most careful inquiry 
is made this is not very evident. It has been 
shown, however, in recent years, that in many of 
the towns where tenement dwellings are most 
abundant the number of children suffering from 
rickets is greatly in excess of the number in towns 
where cottages predominate. Professor Noel 
Paton, of Glasgow, has demonstrated a fact which 
was known before to dog owners, viz. that puppies 
if kept in a well-ventilated room will develop 
rickets, while others from the same litter and fed 
in the same way, if allowed to run about in the 
open, remain free from that disease. 

Tenement dwellings have been erected mainly 
because land was expensive, but in reality it was 
the tenements that made the land expensive, and 
where they do not already exist it would be a 
disastrous mistake to introduce them, except in 

66 



Housing Schemes 

small numbers, for adults. And if tenements are 
provided it will always be difficult to prevent them 
from being occupied bv families in which there 
are young children. 

Building schemes of the future. By far the 
most important advance made by Parliament in 
recent years in the interests of the housing of the 
people was the passing of Town Planning legis- 
lation in 1909. There was no doubt in the minds 
of those who originated this system that the main, 
and one might almost say the only, object of town 
planning was to enable dwellings, and particularly 
small dwellings, to be arranged in such a way 
as to give them a really healthy environment. It 
is not sufficiently recognised, however, that town 
planning is a necessary adjunct of housing, for in 
many towns the one question has been referred to 
one authority and the other to another authority. 
In the most important recent book on the law 
relating to Housing all reference to town planning 
has been omitted, because town planning "properly 
forms no part of the Housing of the Working 
Classes Acts, either in fact or according to the 
definitions in the Act of 1909." 

The essential section in the Housing, Town 
Planning, etc., Act of 1909, viz. Section 54 (i), 
is simple and short ; it is as follows : 

A town planning scheme may be made in accordance 
with the provisions of this part of this Act as respects 

67 



Housing and Public Health 

any land which is in course of development or appears 
to be likely to be used for building purposes, with the 
general object of securing proper sanitary conditions, amenity, 
and convenience in connection with the laying out and 
use of the land and of any neighbouring lands. 

The first essential, therefore, in regard to the 
housing of the people is to secure a town planning 
scheme, so that "proper sanitary conditions, 
amenity, and convenience " may be obtained. 

At the present time such a scheme can only be 
made for land which is in course of development 
or likely to be built upon, and although this will 
include most of the land in proximity to towns, 
it is important that the provision should, in the 
near future, be further extended, so as to deal on 
somewhat similar lines with areas already built on. 

From the point of view of housing, it is desir- 
able, in making a town plan, to separate the 
manufacturing areas from the residential areas at 
the outset, because each of these types of area 
requires special treatment of its own. 

In the case of the manufacturing area the roads, 
the facilities for railway and canal traffic, the faci- 
lities for cheap motive power, such as that from 
Mond gas, or electric power, have to be taken into 
consideration. It is almost as important to pro- 
vide facilities for the manufacturer as it is to 
promote the building of residences for the worker. 
Neither can do without the other. It is desirable, 
too, in the case of manufacturing areas to have the 

68 




Fig. 2. To show factory areas (cross-hatched) in a town- 
planned area. 



Housing and Public Health 

residences of the workpeople not too far from the 
factories, so that they may be able to go home 
and have their meals with their families, and thus 
save expense and secure for themselves and all the 
members of their families good and sufficient food. 

By removing factories and business premises 
to a reasonable distance from the residential area 
one is able to secure to the residential area freedom 
from smoke, dust, noise, and traffic. Having 
planned out the areas most suitable for business 
purposes, it is then possible not only to lay out 
the rest of the area for dwellings of various 
grades, but to allocate sites for allotments, play- 
ing-fields, shops, theatres, churches, and all the 
numerous other amenities which go to make up 
a healthy residential area. (Fig. 2.) 

In arranging town planning schemes the best 
possible provision should be made for transit, so 
that the people in any particular area can as quickly 
as possible get to other areas, either for business or 
for social purposes. All of these questions come 
under the heading of Convenience in the Town 
Planning Act. By making roads wide it is possible 
to arrange various types of fast tramways or other 
means of travel, so that time may be saved in 
getting from one area to another, and if such roads 
are planned well in advance of their coming into 
use they can be made attractive features, instead 
of hideously ugly, as many of them are to-day. 

70 



Housing Schemes 

Again, while for main roads, and perhaps for 
subsidiary roads, the essential condition is width, 
for fast traffic, it is desirable that the residential 
road should be narrow and as free as possible 
from traffic. This may be secured by contriving 




Fig. 3. 

Well-contrived roads : few Ill-contrived roads : all avail- 
available for through traffic. able for through traffic. 

(From the Report of the Tudor Walters Committee.') 

that the road leads nowhere, as shown in the 
accompanying diagram (Fig. 3). Such roads are 
cheaper to make, because they are narrow, there 
is economy in the cleaning and watering, there is 
much less dust, and, by reason of their taking no 



Housing and Public Health 

more traffic than is needed for the houses in the 
road, there is less noise and vibration. Quietness, 
and absence of the vibration which is so constant 
a feature of heavy modern road traffic, are im- 
portant considerations. 

The area allocated for residential purposes will, 
of course, contain the parks, playing fields, allot- 
ments, institutes, swimming bath, etc. 

To secure amenity is one of the reasons given 
in the Act for making a town plan. As already 
indicated, if substantial progress is to be made in 
bettering the lives of the working classes, probably 
one method will be that of providing greater 
amenity in the surroundings of their homes, as 
well as in the interior accommodation. When we 
come to consider the rebuilding of the slums it will 
be found that the question of providing amenity 
in the rebuilt areas has not yet received the atten- 
tion that it deserves. As a result, many of the 
schemes for building the central areas will prob- 
ably fail, sufficient attention not having been 
given to securing for the workers' dwellings 
reasonably good surroundings. It is important that 
the women and children, at any rate, should be 
able to escape at frequent intervals from the awful 
monotony of soot-begrimed bricks and mortar, and 
it should be possible for them, therefore, to get 
without difficulty into playing spaces or parks 
which are green and pretty. Much of the stunted 

72 



Housing Schemes 

and degenerate mental outlook of the slum-dweller 
is due to the absence of pleasant surroundings to 
his dwelling. 

The provision of proper sanitary conditions is 
stated in the Act as the first object of the town 
plan, but it is here presented as of less importance 
than the obtaining of amenity and convenience. 
Already there exists in our Public Health Acts 
and our building regulations sufficient power to 
secure sanitary conditions up to a certain point. 
The additional sanitary conditions of importance 
which the Act enables us to obtain are the limi- 
tation of the number of dwellings, the avoidance 
of long rows of houses, the prevention of noxious 
trades in close proximity to dwellings, and the 
avoidance of other nuisances. 

Number of dwelling-houses per acre. In 
Schedule 5, paragraph 5, of the Housing, Town 
Planning, etc., Act, 1909, there is a requirement 
that a town plan, before it can be approved by the 
Local Government Board, shall not only state the 
number of buildings (not dwellings) per acre, but 
also "the height and character" of these build- 
ings, so that there may be a reasonable safeguard 
against crowding of the area with undesirable 
buildings. 

The Local Government Board, in a circular 
dated March i8th, 1918, addressed to local authori- 
ties, recommend that for houses for the working 

73 



Housing and Public Health 

classes not more than 12 per acre should be erected 
in urban districts, and that in rural districts the 
number should not be more than 8 per acre. 
In the first town planning scheme approved by 
Parliament, viz. that of Quinton, Harborne, and 
Edgbaston, in Birmingham, a limit of 12 houses 
per acre is placed on each land unit, the unit being 
for practical purposes the land belonging to one 
owner. There is, however, a reservation that in 
any land unit the maximum number on any one 
acre may be as high as 20. The object of this 
reservation is to enable houses to be built on small 
areas of ground, while the rest of the land is 
allotted to open spaces. As an illustration, 60 
houses might be built on three acres of ground, 
provided two acres were set apart for the use of the 
tenants as an open space. 

In the second town planning scheme, viz. that 
for East Birmingham, several standards were 
adopted for different areas, 12, 15, and 18 dwelling- 
houses respectively being allowed per acre. In 
practice it is found that wherever a larger 
number of houses than 12 are provided per acre 
there is a sense of congestion to a greater or less 
extent, depending on the slope and general lie 
of the land, while there are very numerous examples 
of areas where 6, 8, and 10 houses per acre are 
provided, which give really adequate space and 
privacy. It must always be remembered that pro- 

74 



Housing Schemes 

vision has to be made for the careless as well as 
for the careful tenant, and that, similarly, people 
have to be provided for to whom gardening in any 
form is distasteful, and it is desirable, therefore, 
in planning new areas, to make provision for these 
various needs and tastes. The Birmingham scheme 
of requiring for such tenants an open space is a 
good and wholesome one. Bournville has, on 
an average, 8 houses per acre, Port Sunlight 
10, Hampstead Garden Suburb 8, and Letch worth 
(smallest) 12. From these figures, and from an 
inspection of the areas, I am strongly of opinion 
that there should not be a larger number of dwell- 
ing-houses on any one acre than 12, except in the 
case of tenants who do not want gardens. 

The lay-out. By this is meant the general 
scheme of arrangement of dwellings, roads, parks, 
institutes, and buildings of all kinds. Usually this 
is a matter for a surveyor, with the help of a good 
contoured map and a knowledge of what is wanted. 
As a general rule, it is important to secure that, 
as far as practicable, streets should run in such 
directions that the dwellings get the maximum 
amount of sunlight on one side, and that the streets 
should give the maximum of convenience to the 
inhabitants. 

Mixing the classes. One feature which has 
not yet been generally recognised as desirable 
in the laying-out of a scheme is the need for 

75 



Housing and Public Health 

housing all classes of the community together, 
instead of establishing an "east end " and a "west 
end " in our new areas. Perhaps the most excellent 
town plan which has ever been made in this country 
was that for the new town of Edinburgh. Here, 
in 1767, provision was made in advance for the 
housing of all classes of the community together, 
and thus preventing separation of the classes. 
Edinburgh has profited by this, perhaps, more than 
by almost any other feature of the scheme. The 
old town plan was departed from many years ago, 
but the feature of housing different classes to- 
gether or near each other has remained. Nobody 
is inconvenienced, the poorer classes are largely 
benefited, while the better classes are benefited to 
an even greater extent by being brought into close 
contact with their poorer neighbours and realising 
their difficulties. 

There is no reason why, in a new town plan, 
areas quite close together should not be set aside 
for groups of houses of different classes, so that 
there may be no separation of classes. 

Details of the plan. The preparation of the 
details of a town-planning scheme need not be 
completed until the land is actually required for 
building, provided that the main features of the 
scheme are decided on long beforehand. 

It may be pointed out that one great advantage 
of good planning of an estate for artisans' dwell- 

76 



Housing Schemes 

ings is that it cheapens the dwellings by allowing 
all of the land to be made use of. 

Straight versus curved roads. As already 
pointed out, the carriage-way in the majority of 
the roads in residential areas need not be wide 
so long as the buildings on either side of the~road 
are sufficiently set back. Given such a road, 
whether wide or narrow, it is desirable to avoid 
straightness. A slight curve makes a surprising 
difference in the appearance of any road, and 
particularly of a road which is tree-planted. A 
deviation equal to the interval between the houses 
on the opposite sides of the road in every quarter 
of a mile of length amply fulfils this condition, 
and gives a pleasant tree-planted prospect at every 
turn. 

The set-back. All dwellings in residential 
areas should be set back from the footpath. 
Whether the road be a wide traffic road or a 
narrow one, this should always be provided for. 
Such a set-back is necessary on health grounds : 
there are less noise, less vibration, less dust, and 
greater privacy. 



77 



CHAPTER VI 
General Block Plan of the House 

THE general block plan of an artisan's house 
may be either narrow and deep, or wide and 
shallow. The narrow and deep house is the com- 
mon type suggested by the builder who desires 
to provide something cheap. It has many dis- 
advantages as well as some advantages. It gives 
less light and air, but is warmer than houses with 
a wide frontage. 

Frequently it is desirable to adapt the shape 
of the house to the lie of the ground. Hilly sites 
are met with where long and narrow buildings re- 
quire less excavation than deep buildings, provided 
the roads run along contour lines. On such hilly 
sites it is important, and indeed on any site it is 
desirable, to make quite certain -that every building 
shall be so arranged as not to keep off direct sun- 
light from other buildings. 

The accompanying sketch (Fig. 4) indicates 
how very much more obstructive to direct sunlight 
a building is in winter than in summer, and it must 
be borne in mind that the winter sunshine lasts a 

78 



General Block Plan 

much shorter number of hours than the summer 
sunshine, and is less actinic. It is important, 
therefore, to take steps to conserve the sun's rays 
during the winter to a larger extent than during 
the summer. 

*eiGHT OP SUN 
>>T NOON JUNE 21. 




AT NODN DEC 



Fig. 4. To illustrate the greater obstructiveness of buildings 
to direct sunlight in winter. 

(From the Report of the Tudor Walters Committee.) 

To fit houses to roads with varying gradients is 
by no means an easy matter for any surveyor, and 
therefore the arrangement of the houses is of great 
importance. 

Size of the building With 10 houses to the 
acre, each house would have 484 square yards, 
while in a congested area, with 40 cottages, 
the average would be 121 square yards. When 

79 



Housing and Public Health 

the roadways and set-backs and area of the houses 
are taken into consideration, the garden space for 
such houses is small, and even with 10 houses to 
the gross acre it does not allow of the production 
of all the green vegetables required in an ordinary 
dwelling. Mr. Raymond Unwin and others have 
demonstrated by plans and by statistical methods 
that the limitation of houses to 10 per gross acre 
is economical, for this will give a valuable garden 
at a cheaper rate per square yard than in the case 
of houses crowded to 25 per acre. He has shown 
that, while the tenant, for all the additional 
advantage of extra garden, pays something less 
than one shilling per week in rent, he gets as a 
set-off a garden of such a size and productiveness 
as to be much more than a quid pro quo. It has 
also been stated on high authority that the limi- 
tation of houses per acre does not necessarily 
mean that the owner of the estate has the value 
of his land greatly reduced. A good deal of 
attention has been paid to this subject by Mr. 
Aldridge in his work on "Town Planning." 

Back roads. In a large number of our English 
working-class town districts the custom of provid- 
ing a back road for the removal of refuse still exists. 
The raison d'etre of these back roads, viz. the 
removal of ashpit refuse, no longer exists, because 
no town can afford to allow ashpits, and therefore, 
in our future town planning, there is no need to 

80 



General Block Plan 



provide for these expensive and insanitary roads. 
The removal of refuse and the taking in of coal 
and manure for the garden can be provided for 
either by passage-ways between each of two houses, 
or by paths round the backs of the houses if they 
are built in fours, as shown in the accompanying 
diagrams (Figs. 5, 6). 

Storage of refuse. Long experience and 
scientific investigation have now clearly defined 
the best method of storing household refuse and 





Fig. 6. Four cottages with- 
out covered passage. 



Fig. 5. Four cottages with 
covered passage in the 
centre, and side passages 
for the two outer ones. 

(From the Report of the Tudor Walters Committee.) 



making provision for its removal. A bin, if of 
good quality, will last fifteen or twenty years in 
the suburbs of most of our towns, and if such a 
bin is kept covered no permanent shed is needed, 
and so expense is saved. 

Privacy of back premises This is as essen- 
tial as the privacy of front rooms. It is therefore 
undesirable that the tenants of one house should 
be allowed to pass across the garden or yard of 
G 81 



Housing and Public Health 

the next house to gain access to their own back 
premises. The working man, as well as the better- 
class tenant, desires that his house should have 
privacy, and this must be kept in view in 
planning. 



/ 





Fig. 7. Types of narrow and cheap roads for residential 
districts where traffic is light. 

(From the Har borne Town Planning Order.) 

Roadways. The accompanying plans (Fig. 7) 
indicate different types of narrow roadways, with 
the houses set back. In the case of the first plan 
the carriage-way is 18 ft. wide, each footpath is 
3 ft. wide, there is a grass margin of 5 ft. between 
the footpath and the fence, and the distance be- 

82 



General Block Plan 

tween the houses is 72 ft. These are probably 
minimal standards, and may be increased in other 
areas. 

Roadways should be as dustless and noiseless 
as possible. The Report to the Local Government 
Board in regard to them contains suggestions 
which may be quoted. 

f^We suggest . . . the following as possible economies 
in the construction of streets : 

'-' (a) Carriage-ways to be reduced in width where their 
length and the planning of the area sufficiently secure 
the absence of through traffic, or, in the event of suitable 
powers being conferred, in cases where traffic can be 
limited. 

'.' (b) Such carriage-ways to be constructed with a sufficient 
bed of ashes, clinker, or other suitable materials when the 
subsoil is of a clayey nature, with a foundation of rubble 
or hardcore, of which a thickness of 9 in. should suffice, 
and finished with either 

(i.) 3 in. of tar macadam, or 
(ii.) 4 in. of macadam, or 
(iii.) 6 in. of gravel flints or other approved material. 

" (c) Where a suitable refuse-destructor clinker is avail- 
able, the use of this for foundations should be considered 
either in its natural condition or, where expedient, in the 
form of a layer of concrete. 

" (d) Curbing and channelling to be reduced to the 
minimum or to be omitted altogether, as required by 
the circumstances of the street. 

" (e) The footpaths on quite short roads on one or both 
sides to be omitted or to be greatly reduced in width. 

83 



Housing and Public Health 

} (f) Any necessary footpaths to be constructed of 4 in. 
of rubble, clinker, or hardcore foundation paved with a 
strip of natural or artificial stone paving, of hard brick 
paving where suitable local paving is available, or of 
2^ in. of tar macadam, to a width of from 3 to 4 ft., and 
to be finished for the remainder of the width with a layer 
of 2 or 3 in. of clean binding gravel or other approved 
material, a light kerb or a grass verge being provided." 

Drainage questions. A great deal of over- 
elaboration of detail in drainage has been required 
in recent years as a result of our modern bye-laws. 
Generally speaking, the shorter the drains are in 
length and the smaller the size of the pipes, pro- 
vided they are large enough for the work, the 
better the scheme. Unfortunately, those who 
design drainage systems frequently have but little 
experience of the working of their schemes. Hence 
the over-elaboration, with added expenditure and 
without good results. 

Two systems have come into operation in recent 
years. One is known as the separate system, 
because in this there is a system of drainage for 
rain water and surface water from the yards and 
roads, while another system takes off the discharge 
from water-closets, sinks, baths, etc. It was 
thought that by providing such a separate system 
the rain water, etc., could be run into the nearest 
stream, while the sewage was taken for treatment 
to the disposal works, and that in this way great 
economy would be effected, both in the lessened 

84 



General Block Plan 

amount of sewage to be treated and the lessened 
size of the sewers to take the drainage. 

In practice, however, this dual system is ex- 
tremely objectionable. It doubles the number 
of drainage pipes about every dwelling-house, it 
doubles the number of sewers in every street, it 
doubles the volume of evil smells w-hich come 
from sewers in the streets, it does not allow of 
clean water only being run into rivers, because 
the washing from paved streets is found to be 
very much polluted, and it causes material diffi- 
culties at sewage works, because the sewage is 
always concentrated. While rivers are in flood 
there is not, as a rule, much harm in allowing 
the overflow from sewers to pass into them. 

The combined system has the advantage of 
shortness mentioned in the first paragraph of this 
section, besides giving to the drains and sewers a 
better scouring during rainstorms, and thus keep- 
ing them cleaner and in better, condition and freer 
from smell. 

The intercepting trap. It is desirable that 
every house should have an interception trap. A 
good many doubts have been expressed as to the 
value of such traps, and the subject is discussed 
in a recent Report to the Local Government Board. 
Most modern bye-laws, however, require inter- 
ception traps. This is not the place to argue 
whether they are necessary or not. Sufficient to 

85 



Housing and Public Health 

say that if an interception trap is provided in 
cottage property, one of the closed traps of the 
Buchan type is better than one which is at the 
outlet to a manhole. In practice it will be 
found that in cottage property the latter gets 
blocked up five times more frequently than the 
former. 

The interception trap requires to have attached 
to it a fresh-air inlet, properly guarded by means 
of a mica flap ventilator. 

Drains. Where drains are provided which pass 
in close proximity to the dwelling-house they 
should be surrounded with concrete. This is ex- 
pensive, but in time it will repay the cost. 
Wherever the fall is away from the dwelling there 
is no necessity to provide concrete. Cottage 
drains need not be laid more than from 15 to 1 8 in. 
below the surface, except where the lie of the land 
requires greater depth, or where a cartway passes 
over them. 

Drain law. Undoubtedly the thing which has 
made the drainage of cottage property expensive 
is the rather ridiculous state of the law with regard 
to the definition of a drain. At the present time 
it is not infrequent to find six or more separate 
drains from as many houses passing down one 
narrow passage. This is done to avoid the com- 
bined or common drain, which would have been 
much the better from a sanitary point of view, 

86 



General Block Plan 

but which, since it would have taken the drainage 
from more than one house, would have become 
a sewer. From a health point of view it is in 
every way better to provide but one drain for a 
number of cottages, say up to twelve or fourteen, 
than to provide a separate drain for each house. 
In the former case there is a better flush and a 
more uniform volume of drainage, and the expense 
is, of course, much less. One interception trap 
does instead of twelve or fourteen, and it is 
possible, therefore, to have one good drain instead 
of a number of inferior ones. 

It is greatly to be desired that the law relating 
to drains should be simplified. As showing how 
unsatisfactory is the present state of things, it has 
been contended that rain-water gutters are common 
sewers repairable by the local authority if they take 
the rain water from more than one house belong- 
ing to the same owner. 

Waste pipes. Until recent years sink and bath 
wastes in cottage property were not trapped, but, 
in accordance with the requirements of the model 
bye-laws of the Local Government Board, were 
discharged into a channel some distance away 
from a gully. Only those who have lived in 
houses with such waste pipes will recognise how 
extremely offensive they become owing to a coat- 
ing of decomposing fat and other filth being de- 
posited on the interior surface, and as they have 

87 



Housing and Public Health 

no trap they act as inlet ventilators to the scullery 
or bathroom of the house, with the result that in 
these rooms most offensive odours are frequently 
noticed. It is practically certain that occasionally 
these evil smells are a predisposing cause of sore 
throat and other affections. Modern practice in- 
dicates that every waste pipe should be trapped, 
and that it is better to discharge waste pipes into 
a gully than over a gully. 

Yard surfaces. In all cottage property there 
is need for a small paved yard, because it is neces- 
sary to empty offensive or organically contamin- 
ated liquids into a gully outside rather than into 
a sink or water-closet. It is important, therefore, 
that the area around the gully and around waste 
pipes should be paved, and should have a fall 
towards the gully, so that no soiling of the ground 
may take place. 

Gully traps. There is little to be said in re- 
gard to gully traps, except that most of those 
now on the market are excellent in pattern. The 
simpler their construction the better, for nobody 
likes cleaning and adjusting the internal arrange- 
ments of a gully. There is, however, one point 
of considerable importance in regard to gullies 
for cottage properties, i.e. the grid or grating 
should be hinged. Where children are allowed 
to play about, the grid, if it is loose, is frequently 
removed, and so things get into the gullies which 

SB 



General Block Plan 

are washed into the drain, with the result that 
blocking takes place. 

Fences and walls. The former custom of 
building high brick walls round every cottage 
garden or every cottage back yard added to the 
expense and to the ugliness of the outlook. In 
most cases a light post and rail or post and wire- 
netting fence, or a hedge, is better than a brick 
wall. A good hedge is effective and much more 
satisfactory than any wall. Circumstances, how- 
ever, will dictate what is best in the interests of 
efficiency and security. What is to be avoided 
is an accumulation of brick and stone walls in 
the area behind dwelling-houses. 



89 



CHAPTER VII 
The Accommodations of a Cottage 

IT has already been pointed out that in designing 
a cottage care must be taken to provide for the 
future rather than for the past. The type of cottage 
here dealt with is one for an ordinary artisan's 
family, but obviously there must be exceptional 
families, and therefore exceptional houses will be 
required. In every town there are instances in 
which one room and a scullery might suffice for a 
widow living alone, or where the three bedrooms 
suggested in the following pages would be quite 
inadequate to the size of the family, but these 
exceptions require no further notice. 

Without doubt the most useful family house 
is one having three bedrooms and two day rooms. 
Such a size is suitable to a larger number of 
families than any other. If the family is small 
and remains so, a room can be let to a lodger. 
It is seldom that the three-bedroomed house is too 
small for the artisan's family. 

The parlour. Custom has a powerful influence 
in determining a preference for one day room 

90 



Accommodations of a Cottage 

or for two, but it is likely that custom in this 
respect will change; indeed, there is no doubt 
that it is already changing, the large majority 
of respectable artisans liking to have a parlour. 
It is a real advantage in the family life, it is a 
source of pride and a convenience in entertaining 
friends, it is useful for interviews, particularly is 
it useful for those of the family who have lessons 
to learn, it can be used for those who are sick, 
it enables many articles of value to be kept out 
of harm's way, and there is little doubt that before 
long it will be demanded as essential for every 
self-respecting family. The provision of a parlour 
also enables better accommodation to be arranged 
on the first floor. 

The scullery. Having decided that a parlour 
is necessary, we have next to consider whether it 
is wise ever to attempt to combine the scullery 
and living-room. In many parts of the country 
it is customary for the living-room to have a sink, 
frequently a washing boiler, and often a gas cooker 
and food cupboard. But from living in such 
rooms, and visiting them and inquiring of the 
artisans themselves, I have no doubt as to the 
desirability of providing, as a minimal require- 
ment in every family house, a separate scullery, 
conveniently placed in relation to the living-room. 
Under all conditions washing in the kitchen is 
objectionable. 



Housing and Public Health 

To a large extent the preparation of food, and 
perhaps to a lesser extent the cooking of it, in 
the living-room are inconvenient and unpleasant. 
All those who have experienced the convenience 
of having a good gas cooker in a separate scullery 
say that they would not return to the discomfort 
and muddle entailed by cooking in the ordinary 
living-room. 

It is really important, in the interests of the 
occupants, that there should be good facilities for 
cooking and washing. It is equally important 
that reasonable facilities should be provided for the 
taking of meals in a room separate from that in 
which cooking, washing and other operations are 
going on. 

In practice a scullery of approximately 60 sq. 
ft. of floor space gives sufficient accommodation 
for a deep sink, a washing copper, a gas cooker, 
and the necessary shelving for storage. A width 
of 6 ft. is sufficient to enable it to be used as a 
passage to the back garden, so as to avoid the 
necessity for a separate passage, or the use of the 
living-room as a passage. In such a scullery 
clothes can be dried in wet weather, and, in the 
country cottage, bread can be baked. 

Size of the living-room and parlour. The 
living-room is the most important room in the 
house, and the only one in which the whole family 
regularly assemble. It should, therefore, be well 

92 



Accommodations of a Cottage 

arranged as regards dimensions. An oblong room 
is much more convenient and commodious than a 
square one, and is structurally more economical, 




First Floor. 




Ground Floor. 

Fig. 8. Plan of good type of narrow-fronted cottages, 
facing north. 

(Designed by Mr. E. IV. Turner.] 

because the joists required are shorter. The 
living-room should always face south, south-east, 

93 



Housing and Public Health 

or south-west, and be regarded as the important 
room in the dwelling-house. It may be made to 
face the street, or to face the back garden, which- 
ever happens to be the proper aspect. (Figs. 8, 9.) 
The position of doors, windows and fireplace 
should be carefully studied, so as to prevent as far 
as practicable draughty corners. 

Fig. 8 shows a living-room with one door only ; 
in this case there is a French window. The floor 
space of such a living-room may vary from ap- 
proximately 1 20 sq. ft. upwards. A good working 
figure is about 180 sq. ft., say 15 ft. by 12 ft. 

The parlour should usually be smaller than 
the living-room. Here, again, a long narrow room 
is much more convenient than a square one. A 
floor area of 120 sq. ft. is suggested as a suitable 
minimum of size. 

Hall and stairs. It is important that the 
smallest possible area should be occupied by the 
hall, passages, staircase, and landings. Long 
narrow passages are very inconvenient and often 
gloomy. Stairs for family use should not be less 
than 3 ft. wide, and should as far as possible 
be free from winders, i.e. steps which are wider 
at one end than at the other. Few are aware of 
the amount of maiming caused by steep stairs with 
winders, but it is difficult to avoid these without 
increasing the size of the house. 

The washhouse. It has been assumed that 
94 




First Floor. 




Ground Floor. 

Fig. 9. Plan of similar cottages to those shown in Fig. 8, 
facing south. 

(Designed by Mr. E. W. Turner.) 

95 



Housing and Public Health 

the house of the future will still continue to do 
the whole or the main part of the family washing 
at home. Public washhouses or other communal 




Ground Floor. 

Fig. 10. Plan of pair of cottages with wide fronts, 
facing south. 

(Designed by Mr. E. W. Turner.} 

systems will never prevent the necessity for some 
washing being done almost daily in houses where 
there are young families. Such minor washing 
is also needed for adults. Provision must there- 
fore be made in the house for the boiling of clothes. 

96 



Accommodations of a Cottage 

There appears to be no need for a separate wash- 
house if a washing boiler and a deep sink are 
provided in the ordinary scullery. An additional 
building is thus saved outside. 

Water-closet accommodation. The water- 
closet accommodation provided for an artisan's 
family in the past has ordinarily been in a separate 
building in the garden or yard. The idea involved 
in such separate outside building is a relic of the 
past, when all cottages were provided with midden 
privies. Such accommodation was then impossible 
inside the dwelling, but with our more modern 
fittings there is nothing insanitary in having the 
water-closet inside, so long as it can be sufficiently 
isolated not to be a nuisance to the adjoining 
rooms. In many cottages the water-closet is 
situated inside the building, but approached from 
the outside. This is a better arrangement than 
having any variety of outside water-closet, because 
there is scarcely any part of this country in which 
outside water-closets are not liable to have the 
water pipes connected with them frozen up at in- 
tervals in winter, even where special precautions 
are taken to protect the pipes. 

In middle-class dwellings, where only one 
water-closet is provided it is usually placed up- 
stairs, frequently in the bathroom. There is no 
objection on sanitary grounds to its being placed 
in the bathroom; indeed, this position is be- 

H 97 



Housing and Public Health 

coming more frequent. The upstairs water-closet 
is of great use to the artisan's family as a labour- 
saving device, for it acts as a slop sink, and does 
away with the necessity for carrying dirty water 
downstairs. Some of the best types of cottages 
have a water-closet in the bathroom upstairs and 
an additional water-closet in an outhouse. 

The real objection to the upstairs water-closet 
is that children and others are liable to carry mud 
upstairs on their boots, but the comfort in sick- 
ness and in its greater privacy, together with its 
labour-saving value, make the upstairs water- 
closet preferable to one that is downstairs. The 
extra cost for an upstairs water-closet in a bath- 
room need not be considered in comparison with 
the comfort involved, the security which is pro- 
vided for cleanliness, and the freedom from 
damage by frost. 

The larder. Only very simple provision need 
be made for the storage of perishable food. The 
food store or larder must be on the north or north- 
east side of the house. It should be away from 
the chimney flues, and outside the range of evil 
smells from drain openings or water-closets. The 
window should be covered with a layer of gauze 
to keep out flies; no light other than the window 
is required. A floor area of about 20 ft. is as 
large as is ever required. This will satisfy the 
needs of any economical housewife. 

98 



Accommodations of a Cottage 

The coal store. The chief requirements of a 
coal store are that it should be on a level with 
the rooms in which the coal is used. It is there- 
fore undesirable to have coal stored in a cellar, 
or far away from the house. A coal store 
6 ft. by 5 ft. will permit of a full load of coal 
being stored, with some room for wood and other 
things. 

The bathroom. I have already expressed a 
decided opinion that from a health point of view 
every dwelling should have a bathroom (p. 47). 
It may be contended that the plumbing for a 
bath, lavatory and water-closet upstairs adds so 
much to the cost of a labourer's cottage as to 
be unjustifiable, but these things ought to be 
regarded as among the reasonable requirements 
of everyday family life. The additional cost on 
the rent of such an installation means from is. 6d. 
to 2s. per week, but from a medical point of view 
this is a justifiable expenditure. 

Bedrooms. Obviously these should vary in 
size. It is well to remember that the broad English 
bed, capable of holding two or more people, is 
likely to give place in the near future to the single 
bed used so much in other parts of the world. 
This has the great advantage of less per- 
sonal contact, and, therefore, of spreading less 
infection. 

Each bedroom should have a fireplace and a 
99 



Housing and Public Health 

window, and if a fireplace cannot be obtained, 
then a special ventilator at the opposite side of 
the room to the window should be provided, so 
that there may be a through draught. The chief 
feature in the design of a bedroom is the securing 
that it shall be of such a shape as to enable beds 
and other furniture to be conveniently placed. It 
is also important that the window should be so 
arranged that in almost any weather part of it 
may remain open. 

Bedrooms on the ground floor. There is no 
known reason other than sentiment against the 
use of rooms on the ground floor as bedrooms, 
and therefore, in the minimal standard cottage 
Which is here described, there is no reason why 
the parlour downstairs may not either permanently 
or temporarily be made into a bedroom if need 
be. Very large experience has been obtained of 
the use of bedrooms on the ground floor in many 
countries of the world, among them Scotland and 
Ireland. While there is no evidence that this 
arrangement is injurious to health, in England 
prejudice against it is strong, and in many cases 
overcrowding of bedrooms occurs simply because 
the inmates will not use an empty ground-floor 
room. 

Attic rooms In a well-planned house no 
space should be allowed to remain useless. In 
many instances it is possible to arrange for reason- 

100 



Accommodations of a Cottage 

ably good bedrooms in the attic. Such bedrooms 
require to be ceiled and made habitable in every 
way. But apart from the use of such habitable 
rooms, space is often wasted in the roof which could 
conveniently be made use of for general storage 
purposes. Such space is useful, even if it can 
only be approached by means of a movable ladder 
through a hatchway, because in the course of years 
there are few thrifty families which do not accumu- 
late materials of all kinds that require to be stored 
away. 

Cupboards and shelves. Much attention has 
been paid to the need for utilising every available 
space in an artisan's dwelling for cupboards or for 
shelving, and many modern plans of such dwell- 
ings provide these essential features in abundance ; 
but it cannot be too frequently pointed out that 
the provision of these adjuncts costs a good deal 
of money. It is well to remember also that the 
artisan requires some accommodation for his 
bicycle or the perambulator. Usually this is pro- 
vided underneath the stairs. Here also a hat-and- 
coat rail can be fixed. 

Cost of the house. The question of cost need 
not be entered into in very great detail in these 
pages, but obviously it is impossible to deal with 
the problem of housing for the artisan classes 
without continuously bearing it in mind. In 
addition to the provision of sufficient accommo- 

101 



Housing and Public Health 

dation and of the amenities essential to healthy 
living, it is necessary, if the house is to justify 
itself, that it should be erected and let at the 
least possible cost, and therefore every item in 
the planning, the lay-out, the building, and the 
materials will have to be carefully considered from 
the point of view of economy. In the case of the 
town cottage, it is desirable that it should be put 
on the market as an investment into which the 
artisan himself may put his savings, so that he 
may have a real stake in the country and a real 
interest in seeing that his surroundings are well 
managed. Unless he can get value for his money 
it will be impossible ever to suggest to him that 
he should become the owner of the house in which 
he dwells. 

Economy should be secured in such ways as 
these : 

(a) Unnecessary passages, landings, and 
expensive projections from the rectangular 
building should be avoided. 

(b) The building materials should be so 
selected as to secure quality at the least cost. 

(c) The site should be so laid out as to 
avoid excessive cost in the first instance. 

(d) Unnecessary expense is frequently in- 
curred by the employment of middle men, who 
act as financiers and inflate the cost of the land 
and of the building. 

102 



Accommodations of a Cottage 

(e) Such matters as the grouping of 
chimney flues often enable considerable saving 
to be effected without curtailing the con- 
venience of the house. 

(/) Unnecessary and often ugly decoration 
of the exterior should be avoided. A good 
design is frequently spoilt by over-orna- 
mentation. Variety can be obtained by 
well considered differences in design and 
materials. 

(g) The building materials of the district 
should be used. 

(h) Money is often wasted upon the con- 
struction of roofs. 

(i) Standardisation is possible without pro- 
ducing monotony or loss of efficiency. 

The various items in the cost of fourteen 
suburban cottages, given in percentages, are here 
copied from the Report to the Local Government 
Board of the Committee on Building Construction 
(Cd. 9191). 

The table shows what a large percentage of the 
total cost is for labour. If one takes the labour 
involved ,in manufacturing the various articles 
required and in building, one is impressed with the 
necessity for using all devices for labour-saving in 
the building trade in order to cheapen the artisan's 
dwelling. 

103 



Housing and Public Health 

Cost per ctnt. 
Timber, manufactured and unmanufactured 17-48 

Bricks 9'8o 

Roof tiles, ridge, etc. . . . .1-65 
Glazed and floor tiles . . . .0-48 
Sanitary ware and pipes . . . .2-30 

Portland cement 2-12 

Plaster and mortars . . . -3-57 

Ballast, sand, etc. . . . ..1-82 

All castings . . . . . . 4-13 

Lead, sheet and pipes . . . . 2-18 

Locks, latches, ironmongery, nails, screws, 

and taps . . . . . .2-81 

Paint, varnish, wall paper, putty, glass, oil, 

glue, etc 

Gas fittings ...... 

Sundry materials ..... 

Labour of all kinds .... 

Overhead charges of all kinds, including fees 

Total cost . 100-00 




104 



CHAPTER VIII 
Materials 

THE question whether stone, brick, cement, 
concrete, or wood should be used is one that is 
generally settled by regard to local conditions. 
If good brickmaking materials exist in the district, 
probably there is no better or more adaptable 
material for artisan's dwellings. Where no brick 
clay exists but there is good aggregate for cement 
concrete, this material will be indicated, while in 
districts where stone is plentiful there are many 
ways of using this economically. 

A good deal has been written recently on the 
subject of cement concrete as compared with bricks, 
and it may be said at once that, given satisfactory 
construction, an exceedingly comfort-able dwelling 
may be built either of blocks of artificial cement 
stone or of slabs of concrete. The tendency to 
condensation inside a dwelling-house built of 
cement concrete can be entirely obviated by hollow 
walls. By standardising the blocks and by 
making them on the site it is possible in many 
instances to build houses of this material at a 
cheaper rate than those of brickwork. 

105 



Housing and Public Health 

Brick walls. It has already been stated that 
solid-built g-in. walls are nearly always more or 
less damp, according to the quality of the bricks 
and the degree of exposure to wind and rain. A 
house built with a more or less porous g-in. wall 
must always be cold and damp, and it therefore 
requires at the outset to be rough-cast, or covered 
on the outside with cement or other material. Such 
a covering will prevent the damp from striking 
through, and if, in addition, care is taken to cover 
the inner surfaces with a not too hard plaster there 
will be little risk of condensation. 

Hollow walls. Undoubtedly a hollow wall in 
brickwork, as is pointed out in Chapter II., is 
better than a similar thickness of solid wall the 
cavity being a good non-conductor, and at the 
same time preventing damp from striking through. 
For ordinary cottages two 4*^-in. walls, properly 
bound together with ties, are the minimal type 
of construction which should be considered. This 
makes an excellent wall, sufficiently strong and well 
constructed for any ordinary cottage. 

There are points, however, which render this 
type of wall expensive. In the first place, it cannot 
be built by the bricklayer at the same rate at which 
he builds a 9-in. wall, because great care has to 
be taken to prevent mortar from filling the cavity 
and acting as a conductor of damp; and the 
tradesmen who follow the bricklayer, such as the 

106 



Materials 

carpenters, have to be careful with their woodwork 
when closing cavities. On the whole, it is desir- 
able either to provide a hollow wall as described, 
or to cover the ordinary g-in. brick wall with an 
impervious layer. Exact experiments have de- 
monstrated that such a hollow wall is as effectual 
in protecting against heat transmission as a solid 
brick wall 18 in. in thickness. 

Roofs. In the absence of sound timber at 
reasonable cost, it may be necessary to make use 
of flat roofs. There is now no difficulty in pro- 
viding a material which will stand both the sun 
and the weather without disintegrating. Many of 
the bituminous compounds will go for long periods 
without any deterioration . Where such a flat 
roof is provided, a ventilated air space of at least 
9 in. should intervene between the roof and the 
ceiling of the bedroom. 

Slate roofs. There has been a tendency in 
recent years to cheapen the roof by covering it 
with the thinnest slates which can be obtained, 
these being nailed with copper or galvanised iron 
nails. Much trouble, however, is occasioned by 
such light roofs being damaged by wind and then 
leaking. Again, if the galvanised iron nails are 
damaged they rust through and allow the slates 
to slip, which necessitates frequent repairs. As a 
rule, it is better to have fairly strong timbers and 
thick slates; the first cost will be amply saved 

107 



Housing and Public Health 

by the obviation of repairs which otherwise will 
be necessary during the first twenty years of the 
life of the building. 

In many areas satisfactory tiles can be obtained, 
in which case the pitch of the roof will have to be 
adapted for tiles. The most important points to 
be attended to in the case of tiles are that they 
shall be of a quality which will not disintegrate, 
and of a shape which will prevent rain from being 
blown underneath. 

Asbestos slates have been used to a consider- 
able extent of late years. It is impossible, how- 
ever, to say as yet how long they will last. In 
many buildings they have been in use for over 
twenty years, and it is thought, therefore, that 
they will be permanent. There is a great advan- 
tage in having these light slates, because the rest 
of the roof may be correspondingly light in 
structure. The disadvantage is that they allow heat 
and cold to pass through with great ease. 

Internal surfaces. Everywhere in the house 
the internal surfaces should be smooth and ren- 
dered with plaster, except, perhaps, the coal store 
and the larder. In the living-room for the artisan's 
family it is extremely desirable to provide a dado 
of cement rather than of plaster up to a height 
of, say, 3 ft. Such a dado will prevent damage 
to the walls. 

Skirting boards, mouldings, etc. In recent 
108 



Materials 

years a good deal of unnecessary expense has been 
incurred in providing deep skirting boards and 
heavy mouldings. Wherever possible these should 
be done away with (see p. 28), and the smallest 
possible amount of woodwork should be provided 
instead of a skirting board. 

Floors. No satisfactory material except wood 
is available for the flooring of rooms. Wood is 
probably the best material for every floor except 
those of the scullery, hall, and passages. A great 
deal of waste has been incurred from floors being 
laid with unseasoned timber on rafters over an 
unventilated cavity. Many of these floors have to 
be taken up after a few years. It is therefore very 
important that timber floors on the ground level 
should have adequate ventilation below them. 
Such floor boards should be tongued and grooved. 
For the artisan's living-room, wooden floors are 
better than any kind of tiles or any kind of cement 
concrete. 

Of late years a large number of flooring com- 
positions have been placed on the market. Few, 
if any, of them, however, have stood the test of 
time in any floor which is exposed and on which 
there is much traffic. Until their durability has 
been proved it will be well to avoid such materials. 
Coke breeze concrete, to which linoleum is glued, 
makes an excellent and sanitary floor if the lino- 
leum is glued upon perfectly dry concrete. If, 

109 



Housing and Public Health 

however, damp rises through the concrete the 
linoleum will disintegrate in a few years. If a 
cavity can be ensured below such floors, linoleum 
glued to dry concrete makes a very comfortable 
living-room floor. 

Windows. Little more need be said here on 
the general question of windows (see p. 42). 
There is a tendency in many instances to provide 
large bay windows in liy ing-rooms. This adds 
considerably to the size of the room and to its 
lighting, but unfortunately such a window often 
makes the room extremely cold and draughty in 
winter time. The custom of using coloured glass 
for the upper portions of windows, especially bay 
windows, should be avoided, because it neutralises 
the most effective part of the window. Bay windows 
are frequently costly in upkeep, unless very sub- 
stantial. On the other hand, they often assist in 
preventing monotony in the elevation. 

The best type of window is not easy to define. 
Local custom more frequently than anything else 
decides the type to be used. In some areas sash 
windows predominate; in others, casements, while 
in many artisans* dwellings sliding sashes are 
used. The points to be borne in mind in window 
construction are: (i) That the lighting area of 
the window should extend to or near to, the ceil- 
ing; (2) that every window should be capable of 
being opened, and opened in such a way as not 

no 



Materials 

to allow the admission of rain ; (3) that each 
window should be capable of being easily cleaned. 
One of the cheapest windows for artisans' dwell- 
ings is that in which the frames slide over one 
another and the upper portion has a top-hung 
hopper. Such a window is cheap, durable, and 
efficient for bedrooms. 

Plumbing. A hot-and-cold water supply for 
a labourer's dwelling must not, in future, be re- 
garded as exceptional. Care must be taken to 
ensure that a reasonably good quality of plumbing 
materials is used, and that the waterpipes are 
properly placed. In designing a cottage con- 
siderable care should be bestowed upon the dis- 
tribution of the hot-and-cold-water pipes, so that 
from the very beginning there may be little risk 
of freezing. Similar precautions should be taken 
in regard to the supply cistern and other parts 
of the water-supply apparatus. 



CHAPTER IX 
Communal Services 

IT has frequently been urged that a common ser- 
vice of hot water should be provided for cottage 
property. Undoubtedly it would be a real aid to 
cleanliness, and would be a great means of saving 
labour. The possibility of such a service is greater 
in tenement dwellings than in separate cottages. 
The real difficulty in providing a hot-water service 
is to prevent the water from being wasted. If some 
kind of meter could be provided, so that the hot 
water could be charged for in proportion to the 
amount used, such a service would be practicable, 
although even then it would add somewhat to the 
expense of the cottage. 

Central heating. An artisan's dwelling with 
good radiators in the living room and parlour, 
and with a gas stove and a common hot-water 
supply, is the type of dwelling which reduces the 
housewife's work to a minimum. If to these were 
added electricity for lighting and power, an ex- 
tremely comfortable cottage could be provided. 

In regard to central heating, however, what is 
112 



\ 



Communal Services 

easily possible in tenement buildings is almost 
impracticable in separate cottages on account of the 
waste through loss of heat from the mains. Ob- 
jection may be taken to the provision of radiators 
instead of open fireplaces, but from a medical 
point of view there is probably very little reason 
to fear that the absence of the chimney ventilator 
would seriously interfere with the health of the 
occupants. It is probable that if dwelling-houses 
were provided with radiators rather than with fire- 
places, those who live in them would soon lose 
their dislike of these contrivances. 

Play-rooms and creches. It has been sug- 
gested that there is a desire among tenants to have 
a place in which toddlers and babies may be left 
in safety while the mothers do their marketing 
or the heavy work of the house. A creche for 
babies would have to be supervised by a skilled 
person, and the premises themselves must He of 
good class. The expense of running a creche 
for babies must, therefore, be high. Such a 
scheme, indeed, however desirable, is almost 
doomed to failure by its expensiveness. So far as 
toddlers are concerned, however, the provision of 
a small open space near the dwelling, where they 
can play together, under supervision, need not be 
very costly. 

Communal clothes washing. Many inquiries 
have been made as to how the inconvenience and 
i 113 



Housing and Public Health 

drudgery of washing and drying clothes in a 
small house can be avoided. Common wash- 
houses have long been in existence in many towns. 
To these washhouses a mother may take her wash- 
ing, and either do it herself completely, or do 
certain parts, reserving the finishing to be done 
at home. Such a washing establishment away 
from home means, of course, that the mother must 
either take her children with her or leave them 
with a neighbour or at a cr&che. 

The really hard part of the weekly washing is 
the soaking, scrubbing, and boiling of the clothes. 
It has therefore been suggested that arrangements 
might be made to send all the heavy articles 
of clothing to an ordinary laundry, where they 
could be washed and rough-dried, leaving the 
ironing, etc., to be done by the housewife at 
home. This is probably a good suggestion, and 
in time it may be carried out. 

Even at pre-war prices it would almost certainly 
not be economical for the artisan classes to send 
thejr clothes to a laundry to be washed and 
finished. It is estimated that the washing of the 
clothes of an ordinary family of six father, 
mother, and four children would cost, for 
materials, about 8d. per week if done at home, 
while if sent to an ordinary laundry it would cost 
at least 6s. 

Vacuum cleaning. If it were possible to find 
114 



Communal Services 

a common heating and hot-water supply, or to 
provide a cheap electric lighting installation, it 
would be possible also to provide mechanical 
power for driving a vacuum cleaner on each floor, 
and thus save labour in cleaning. At present, 
however, all these labour-saving apparatus are 
costly and out of the question, as is also the 
provision of electric power. 



CHAPTER X 
Rural Cottages 

THERE is not much difficulty in arriving at the 
minimal requirements of a rural labourer's cottage, 
judged from the point of view of health. No body 
of men has such opportunities as the medical pro- 
fession for seeing the rural labourer's dwelling "at 
work," and of learning from the people themselves 
what they need. I can say with considerable defi- 
niteness that the absence of reasonable accommoda- 
tion for agricultural labourers has largely been the 
cause of the migration from the country to town. 
Not only is there a great shortage of dwelling- 
houses in many rural areas, but many of the 
existing houses are insanitary, or defective in 
accommodation . 

The first and most important requirement for 
the country is more houses, which should be pro- 
vided before any attempt is made to deal with 
existing insanitary ones. The sites for new houses 
are limited to places where work is available, and 
therefore a large number of these houses must be 
scattered. While this is so, it is important to 

116 



Rural Cottages 

remember that labourers prefer to live in a hamlet 
and travel to their work on foot or on a bicycle 
rather than live in an isolated house. 

So far as the lay-out of these houses is con- 




Fig. 11. To show method of siting houses away from 
main road. 

(From the Report of the Tudor Walters Committee,) 

cerned, there is no material difference between 
them and new houses in an urban district. One 
would urge the undesirability of building on main 
roads, which are always disagreeable on account 
of the amount of dust and the danger to young 
children from traffic. Houses should therefore 

117 



Housing and Public Health 

be built well back from the road, and, if necessary, 
on separate little culs-de-sac, as shown in the 
accompanying plan (Fig. n). 

Size of the cottage. There is no essential 
difference in the requirements of the rural 
labourer's family compared with those of the town 
dweller. More often than in towns the parlour is 
dispensed with (Fig. 12), but there are the same 
reasons in the country as in the town for the 




Ground Floor. First Floor. 

Fig. 12. Cottage without parlour, suitable in some rural 
areas. 

(From the Report of the Tudor Walters Committee.) 

provision of a parlour. The house should have 
three bedrooms. A parlour and an extra bed- 
room are extremely useful to rural labourers with 
large families, or for the accommodation of 
lodgers, who are a source of income, and must 
be provided for in one way or another. The Report 
of the Committee of the Board of Agriculture and 
Fisheries on plans for rural cottages gives the 
following dimensions for rooms in a house with 
a parlour : 

118 



Rural Cottages 

Floor space 
in sq. ft. 

Parlour (if provided) . . . .120 
Living-room . . . . . .180 

Scullery 80 

Larder 24 

Bedroom No. j 160 

Bedroom No. 2 120 

Bedroom No. 3 . . . . .no 

Scullery and bathroom. Where a constant 
water supply is available there ought to be no 
hesitation in providing an upstairs bathroom. 
Where, however, such a supply is not available, 
then one of the makeshift bathing arrangements 
will have to be provided. In this case the scullery 
might have a fixed bath in it, or it might have 
a tip-up bath, the water being" obtained from a 
washing boiler placed near. In such a cottage it 
is undesirable to have the bathroom upstairs be- 
cause of the labour of carrying up water. There 
will therefore be no necessity for providing a 
heating boiler behind the kitchen range. 

Water-closet accommodation. The rural 
labourer has until very recent years had to be 
content with an open midden privy situated fre- 
quently at a long distance from the house. Illness 
has arisen from these privies; they are usually 
most offensive and disgusting, and should not be 
tolerated. 

There are in the market many varieties of earth 
119 



Housing and Public Health 

closets. The simpler these closets are in their 
mechanism the better. Perhaps the best arrange- 
ment is to build a closet and provide an ordinary 
coal bucket under a lift-up seat. At the back of 
the seat is a large open box for earth, with a 
scoop. If a shovelful of earth is placed in the 
closet every time it is used there ought to be no 
liquid obvious, and no smell from the bucket. 
If the handle of the bucket is taken off and hung 
on the wall it can be hooked on to the bucket 
when it is full,and the whole may then be carried 
at frequent intervals to a trench in the garden and 
emptied. 

The floor of such a closet should be made of 
cement concrete, and should be smooth, so that 
it may be swilled out at intervals. This form of 
closet is simple in construction, and if used with 
quite ordinary care is a quite sanitary apparatus. 
It may, indeed, be placed under the main roof of 
the building, but without an opening to the inside. 

Water supply.- As already stated (p. 46), the 
main feature to be secured is that the water supply, 
if from a well, shall be free from the risk of pollu- 
tion. The well should therefore be some distance 
from the house. In the rural labourer's scullery 
there should be a shelf on which buckets of water 
may be stored. 

Drainage and disposal of liquid refuse. The 
late Dr. Vivian Poore demonstrated on a large 

120 



Rural Cottages 

scale that the whole of the drainage from a 
labourer's cottage may be profitably and safely 
disposed of in a small garden. There is no doubt 
about this being practicable, but without consider- 
able education and supervision such a system is 
liable to get out of order and become a nuisance. 

It therefore becomes a necessity to provide a 
cesspool or to instal some general sewage disposal 
system. It is a good plan to separate the water 
which comes from the roof and the yard from slop 
waters, and to allow the former to soak into the 
ground or to be retained for washing purposes, 
while the sink water is run into a cesspool. If the 
cesspool is situated at a sufficient distance from the 
well there is no reason why it should not be 
pervious and, therefore, self-cleansing. This is 
preferable to the water-tight cesspool suggested 
by the Local Government Board, which has the 
disadvantage of requiring to be pumped out at 
frequent intervals, and of suggesting to the tenant 
the desirability of using as little water as possible 
so as to avoid nuisance and save labour. 

Tool houses and fuel stores. These are very 
valuable additions to the rural labourer's cottage. 
They ought to be large enough to enable him to 
store his winter wood or coal, and to keep all the 
tools he requires for his work. 

Materials for the country cottage. It is a 
great mistake to import materials into a district 

121 



Housing and Public Health 

when reasonably .good building stone or bricks 
can be obtained on the spot. To a much larger 
extent, therefore, in rural than in urban areas, is 
it necessary to seek out what is available in the 
district. 

Another point of importance is that the rural 
builder is able to build certain types of houses 
because he is accustomed to them, while in many 
cases he is so unfamiliar with other types that 
the cost of building would be materially enhanced. 
It is well, therefore, to adapt the style of building 
to the class of workmanship available in the area. 



7J2 



CHAPTER XI 
Housing in London 

IT has already been mentioned that housing con- 
ditions in the capital of nearly every country differ 
in some respects from those in the provincial 
towns. A short chapter must, therefore, be 
devoted to the question of housing in London. 

At the same time, a study of the problem as it 
affects London will furnish hints for provincial 
towns, because what has happened in London 
might happen, and indeed is happening, more or 
less, in many of the largest provincial towns, 
where people in the central areas are being locked 
in by enormous suburban areas, preventing them 
from getting into the country without a long 
journey. If London could have known in Wren's 
time that the city would grow until it extended 
fifteen miles from the centre, care would have been 
taken to provide special means of transit, and 
otherwise to facilitate the distribution of the people 
in the outer areas. 

But London has been much more fortunate 
than most of our provincial towns in having parks 

123 



Housing and Public Health 

of large size in and around it. There is scarcely 
one of our provincial towns with an open space of 
the size of Hyde Park in its central area. 

The impossibility, even now, of regulating the 
growth of London is indicated by the fact that the 
County of London has, not reckoning the City 
of London proper, no less than twenty-eight 
authorities with certain housing functions to fulfil. 
But these authorities deal with only a small portion 
of the population living within a radius of 15 miles 
from Charing Cross. In the outer ring there is 
a very large number of local authorities, all in- 
vested with housing responsibilities. These, 
added to the authorities in the County of London, 
give a total of eighty-eight. With so many authori- 
ties, it is impossible to secure anything like uniform 
action and vigour. Similar conditions also occur 
in many of the largest provincial towns in the 
country. 

A central authority needed. The first and 
most essential step in the direction of housing 
in an area like London is to set up some 
central authority to regulate the provision of 
houses throughout the whole area. Such an 
authority, in addition to controlling the provision 
of houses, would at the same time deal with the 
provision of means of transit. By moving out the 
people and cheapening the cost of travel, the 
housing difficulty in London might be very con- 

124 



Housing in London 

siderably relieved, but it is evident that in an area 
so enormous in extent large numbers of people 
must be provided for in the more or less central 
parts. There appears to be no alternative but to 
provide tenement dwellings for those who have 
to live in these central parts, and if such tenement 
dwellings are built they ought to be self-contained, 
and to have sufficient airing ground to mitigate 
as far as practicable the evils of the tenement 
system. 

Many such housing schemes have already been 
carried out by the Peabody Trust, the County 
Council and various other local authorities, ap- 
parently with very good results. It cannot, how- 
ever, be too frequently stated that up to the present 
time most of these results have been obtained from 
dwellers who are unconsciously selected. 

In London, as elsewhere, much attention has 
been lately given to the reparation of old proper- 
ties and the division of middle-class houses into 
sections for the artisan classes. The former 
subject is considered in the next chapter. The 
adaptation of middle-class houses to the re- 
quirements of artisans is a device that may be 
commended, since it tends to spread the artisan 
population over larger areas. 



CHAPTER XII 
The Reparation of Old Properties 

A GREAT deal can be done, and must be done, in 
the way of reparation of old dwellings during the 
period which must elapse before a sufficiency 
of healthy new dwellings is provided. In many of 
these cases of reparation the standards to be aimed 
at must fall much below those which have been 
outlined as being needed for new dwellings. It is 
possible, however, to make many old houses very 
much more healthy than they are at present by 
carrying out substantial repairs. 

Obligations on landlords. It cannot be too 
widely known that the owner of a small house who 
lets it at a rental up to 40 per annum in London, 
up to 26 per annum in a town of 50,000 inhabi- 
tants, or up to 16 per annum elsewhere, does so 
with an implied contract that the house is reason- 
ably fit for human habitation. 

By Section 15 of the Housing, Town Planning, 
etc., Act, 1909, the group of houses mentioned in 
the above paragraph must be kept by the owner 
during the holding "in all respects reasonably fit 

126 



Reparation 

for human habitation." That is to say, a tenant 
who finds that a landlord has let him a cottage 
which is not reasonably fit for human habitation, 
or does not continue to keep it in that con- 
dition, has a remedy at common law. Innumer- 
able cases have been taken into Court under 
this section. 

Further, if it appears to the sanitary authority 
that a house is not kept "in all respects reasonably 
fit for human habitation," the sanitary authority 
must cause a written notice to be sent to the land- 
lord requiring him within a reasonable time (not 
being less than twenty-one days) to do such work, 
specified in the notice, as is necessary to make the 
dwelling habitable. If he fails, power is given to 
the sanitary authority to do the work and recover 
the expense. 

Nothing could be more definite and satisfactory 
than the powers contained in these two sections. 
If the tenant suffers without complaining it is due 
to ignorance of his rights, or to neglect to avail 
himself of them. Probably much more might be 
done by sanitary authorities in making the occu- 
pants of small dwelling-house property aware of 
the protection which these sections afford. So, 
too, it is desirable that sanitary authorities should 
take a much more serious view of the duty de- 
volving upon them of requiring landlords to keep 
their houses in a habitable condition. 

127 



Housing and Public Health 

Regular inspection of dwellings. Section 17 
(i) of the Housing, Town Planning, etc., Act, 
1909, requires that every local authority shall 
cause a regular inspection of the houses in its 
district to be made, with a view to ascertaining 
what houses are dangerous or injurious to health. 
Regulations have been made by the Local Govern- 
ment Board, known as the Housing (Inspection 
of District) Regulations, 1910, requiring the 
Medical Officer of Health of every district to 
organise an examination of dwelling-houses in 
relation to the following matters : 

1. The arrangements for preventing contami- 

nation of the water supply. 

2. Water-closet accommodation. 

3. Drainage. 

4. The condition of the dwelling-house in re- 

gard to light, the free circulation of air, 
dampness, and cleanliness. 

5. The paving, drainage, and sanitary con- 

dition of any yard or outhouses belonging 
to or occupied with the dwelling-house. 

6. The arrangements for the deposit of refuse 

and ashes. 

7. The existence of any room which, in pur- 

suance of sub-section (7) of Section 17 of 
the Act of 1909, would be a dwelling-house 
so dangerous or injurious to health as to 
be unfit for human habitation. 
128 



Reparation 

8. Any defects in other matters which may 
tend to render the dwelling-house dan- 
gerous or injurious to the health of an 
inhabitant. 

It is obvious from the above that if a sanitary 
authority carries out its duties it is possible for 
it to know of every house which is dangerous 
or injurious to health, and every house that re- 
quires ordinary repairs. The importance of this 
statutory inspection cannot be over-estimated. 

Powers of the sanitary authorities. Having 
ascertained that certain houses are dangerous or 
injurious to health, the sanitary authority has 
drastic powers for dealing with them, which will 
now be enumerated. 

(a) Closing order. Section 17 of the Housing, 
Town Planning, etc., Act, 1909, empowers a 
sanitary authority, if a house is reported by the 
Medical Officer of Health as dangerous or in- 
jurious to health, to require it to be closed when 
it has satisfied itself that the report is justified. In 
such a case, indeed, it has no alternative but to 
make a closing order, prohibiting the house from 
being used for human habitation "until, in the 
judgment of the local authority, the dwelling is 
rendered fit for the purpose." 

(b) Demolition order. Obviously one of two 
things must be done by the owner. He may put 

j 129 



Housing and Public Health 

the "closed " house in habitable condition to the 
satisfaction of the local authority within a period 
of three months, or (2) if this cannot be done, 
or is not done, the local authority must make an 
order for the demolition of the house, which the 
owner must then pull down, or in default the 
local authority may do so and recover the cost. 

(c) Charging order. The expense of making a 
house habitable may fall heavily upon a short 
leaseholder. Section 36 of the Housing of the 
Working Classes Act, 1890, gives power to the 
local authority to make a "charging order " for a 
period of thirty years, so that the cost of the 
repairs may be spread over this period, and the 
burden, therefore, may be borne by the lease- 
holder and freeholder and others interested in 
proportion to the extent of their holding. 

(d) Obstructive buildings. Provision is fur- 
ther made by Section 38 of the Housing of the 
Working Classes Act, 1890, by which a local 
authority may require the removal of a building 
which stops or impedes ventilation, or otherwise 
makes a dwelling-house unfit for human habita- 
tion; or which prevents measures being taken to 
remedy a nuisance injurious to health, etc. 

This section is a complicated one, and not very 
effective in its operation, but it could be put in 
use where any seriously obstructive building 
existed. 

130 



Reparation 

These powers have been given to local authori- 
ties in their present form mainly since 1909, and 
but for the War and the shortage of dwelling- 
houses much could have been done to bring up 
the standard of housing to what it ought to be. 
It may be fairly said that the powers which now 
exist for dealing with old property are adequate, 
and even, one might say, drastic, and but for the 
inadequacy of housing accommodation they could 
be put into operation with great effect. 

The Housing Acts give two other important 
powers to local authorities, viz. (i) for dealing 
with unhealthy areas, and (2) for building new 
dwellings. 

Unhealthy areas. Where the Medical Officer 
of Health, or, in default of this officer, two 
justices of the peace, or twelve ratepayers of the 
district, represent (a) that any houses, courts, or 
alleys are unfit for human habitation; or (b) that 
the narrowness, closeness, and bad arrangement, 
or the bad condition of the streets and houses, or 
the want of light, air, ventilation, or proper con- 
veniences, or other defects are dangerous or 
injurious to health, and that these evils cannot be 
removed otherwise than by an improvement 
scheme, the local authority must consider all the 
facts, and if satisfied of the truth of the repre- 
sentations, and of the sufficiency of its resources, 
it has no alternative but to decide that the area 



Housing and Public Health 

is an unhealthy area, and forthwith to make a 
scheme for improving it. 

The details to be taken into consideration in 
making a scheme under this part of the Act are 
complicated, and are subject to the approval of the 
Local Government Board, by means of a local 
inquiry at which all interests can be represented. 
In practice the method of procedure under this 
part of the Act has been found to be exceedingly 
costly, slow, and unsatisfactory. In many cases 
it is necessary to clear the site, and for this purpose 
to purchase, it may be by arbitration, the whole 
of the land, dwelling-houses, shops, public-houses, 
workshops, factories, etc., together with the busi- 
ness interests involved. ^When this has been done, 
new streets may have to be formed, and new 
buildings erected on the land by private enterprise 
or by the local authority. It is usually found that, 
by the time all this has been done, the land is so 
expensive as to be quite unsuitable for the erection 
of cottage property. In a few special cases the 
procedure has been satisfactory; but in the great 
majority of towns one experience of the full opera- 
tion of this part of the Act has been sufficient 
to make the local authority exceedingly reluctant 
to undertake a second scheme. On the whole, the 
cost of purchasing old slums has prevented large 
areas of town dwellings from being dealt with 
under this clause. 

132 



Reparation 

In the future, work under this part of the Act 
is likely to be so expensive as to be prohibitive. 
What, then, can be done in such circumstances? 
The answer is : First, obtain powers to town-plan 
the area, and then put into operation the existing 
powers as to closing or reparation or demolition. 

At present, however, there is no power to town- 
plan an old built-up area. This is regrettable, as 
it prevents the local authority from deciding which 
of the old areas can be scheduled as residential. 
Whenever such an area is demarcated for resi- 
dences, it is possible to apply all those conditions 
to it which have already been described and which 
have for their object the making of the area a 
pleasant one to live in. It will pay to spend 
money on parks and play spaces, and in beautify- 
ing the area, if it is known that it will remain 
mainly a residential area and not be used for 
factory or business purposes. 



133 



CHAPTER XIII 
Building of Houses in New Areas 

PART III. of the Act of 1890 gives large powers for 
the acquisition of land by local authorities, and for 
the erection of houses on such land. As the dwell- 
ings which are needed to meet the present acute 
shortage will be erected under these powers, it is 
desirable to understand the procedure which must 
be adopted. 

Definitions. In the first place the Housing 
Act of 1890 makes use of the expression "lodging 
houses for the working classes " instead of 
"houses" or "cottages." The expression "lodg- 
ing house " is an unfortunate relic of preceding 
Acts of Parliament, which have long since been 
superseded. There were several Acts passed be- 
tween 1851 and 1885 dealing with "labouring 
classes' lodging houses." In recent years the 
expression "lodging houses " has come to be 
applied to a type of property entirely different from 
that contemplated by the Acts of Parliament 
relating to housing. 

By Section 53 of the Act of 1890 the expression 
'34 



Houses in New Areas 

"lodging house " is defined to include separate 
houses for the working classes, and the expression 
"cottage " may include a garden of not more than 
half an acre, provided the estimated annual value 
of such garden shall not exceed 3. 

Again, Section 59 permits the local authority to 
"fit up, furnish, and supply the same respectively 
with all requisite furniture, fittings, and conveni- 
ences." The local authority may also make bye- 
laws for the management, use, and regulation of 
"lodging houses," a printed copy or abstract of 
such to be put up and at all times kept in every 
room. 

It is obvious, therefore, that lodgings were 
originally intended. There can, however, be m. 
doubt as to the intention of the legislature in the 
Housing and Town Planning Bill of 1919, viz. 
that ordinary houses or cottages shall be erected, 
whatever expression may be used to define them. 

Another important point, and one which is not 
yery clear in any of the Acts of Parliament, is as 
to the classes of the community a local authority 
must provide houses for. In numerous Acts of 
Parliament the expression "working classes " is 
made use of. By paragraph 12 of the Schedule 
to the Housing Act of 1903 the expression "work- 
ing classes" is defined as including "mechanics, 
artisans, labourers, and others working for wages, 
hawkers, costermongers, persons not working for 



Housing and Public Health 

wages but working at some trade or handicraft 
without employing others except members of their 
own family, and persons other than domestic 
servants whose income, in any case, does not 
exceed an average of thirty shillings per week, 
and the families of any such persons who may 
be residing with them." 

In the Settled Land Act, which is referred to in 
the Housing Act of 1890, the provisions "apply 
only to buildings of a rateable value not exceeding 
;ioo per annum." 

By Section 75 of the Act of 1890, "letting for 
habitation by persons of the working classes " 
means " letting for habitation of a house or part of 
a house at a rent not exceeding in England the sum 
named as the limit for the composition of the rates 
by Section 3 of the Poor Rate Assessment and 
Collection Act, 1869, and in Scotland and Ireland 
the sum of ^"4." 

The Act of 1909 again extends the definition. 
Here Section 14 deals with the question of houses 
with rentals up to ^"40 per annum in London, 26 
per annum in towns of 50,000 inhabitants or over, 
and 16 per annum elsewhere, so as to bring them 
within the scope of the special legislation relating 
to small dwellings. 

The above definitions have been set out to in- 
dicate the extreme amount of confusion and want 
of directness which exists in our legislation as to 

136 



Houses in New Areas 

ttie classes of the community for which compulsory 
powers in regard to housing are given to local 
authorities. The plans and instruction which have 
been recently issued by the Local Government 
Board indicate that what the Government is pre- 
pared to sanction at present is a good class artisan's 
dwelling and nothing more. This is unfortunate, 
because there are few large estates which could not 
be improved vastly by the erection of houses for 
the middle and upper classes in parts of it, thus 
preventing the aggregation together of masses of 
the labouring classes. It seems desirable, there- 
fore, that at an early date all references to the 
working classes should be left out, so that, when 
building, local authorities may provide for the 
mixing of the classes in the areas which they 
control. 

Purchase of land by a local authority. The 
local authority, with the consent of the Local 
Government Board, may purchase land for 
housing by agreement, notwithstanding that the 
land is not immediately required for this pur- 
pose. 

Land may also be purchased compulsorily by 
the local authority for housing. In this case it must 
be done by means of an Order which will require 
confirmation by the Local Government Board or 
Parliament. 

In selecting the locality for a housing scheme, 
'37 



Housing and Public Health 

the Act requires that consideration shall be 
given to : 

(a) The probable growth of the district. 
(6) Its accessibility to industrial, social, edu- 
cational, and recreational centres. 

(c) Transit facilities. 

(d) Suitability of land for healthy dwellings, 

with reasonable amenity. 

(e) Its cost and the quality of the soil. 

The site having been selected and the purchase 
completed, the lay out of the land must be under- 
taken. This is best done by a combination of 
architectural, surveying, and economic skill. The 
total cost of a completed housing scheme under 
Part III. of the Act of 1890 must include surveyor's 
and legal expenses, the cost of formation of roads, 
fencing, planting, drainage, and sewerage, as well 
as the costs in connection with the erection of the 
dwellings. 

Borrowing by a local authority. The Act 
of 1890 empowers a local authority to defray the 
expenses of a housing scheme as part of the general 
expenses of the Public Health Act of 1875, and, 
further, empowers the local authority to borrow for 
the purpose for a period which may not in any case 
be more than eighty years. A local authority may 
sell or exchange land for housing purposes (Act 
of 1890, Section 60). 

138 



Houses in New Areas 

By the Act of 1903 a local authority may pro- 
vide and maintain, in connection with the housing 
scheme, recreation grounds, shops, or other build- 
ings which will serve a beneficial purpose in 
connection with the requirements of the persons 
for whom the scheme is provided. 

The Act of 1900 provides for the leasing of 
any land required for housing to a lessee for the 
purpose of erecting and maintaining houses, and 
requires that the local authority shall insert in every 
such lease provisions which will secure the user 
of the land and buildings for the classes mentioned 
in the Housing Acts. 

Private Utility Societies may, under the Act 
of 1890, borrow money from the Public Loan Com- 
missioners, such societies to include "any railway 
company or dock or harbour company or any other 
company, society, or association established for 
the purpose of constructing or improving or 
facilitating or encouraging the construction or 
improvement of dwelling houses for the working 
classes or for trading or manufacturing pur- 
poses." 

Similarly, money may be borrowed by any 
private individual entitled to any land for an estate 
in fee simple or for a term of years absolute, 
whereof not less than fifty years shall remain un- 
expired. It is proposed to extend this power by 
the Housing and Town Planning Bill of 1919. 



Housing and Public Health 

Unnecessary complications of the law rela- 
ting to housing. It must be obvious to anyone 
perusing these brief references to housing legis- 
lation that the time is opportune for a consolidating 
and simplifying Act to which one could turn for 
all information in regard to the housing question. 
At the present time we have to deal with five or 
six Acts of Parliament, each succeeding Act 
amending the former one, so that the earliest and 
most important of all the Acts, viz. the Act of 
1890, has been so amended that it would be a 
dangerous procedure for anyone to be guided by 
it alone. Few of the sections in it are now 
operative in their original form. 



140 



CHAPTER XIV 

The Present Shortage and the Proposed 
Remedy 

THROUGHOUT Great Britain there has been during 
the past ten years a diminishing number of new 
houses erected annually. Since the commencement 
of the War practically no new dwellings have been 
erected. The shortage of new houses has varied 
in different towns, but no town has escaped 
altogether. In few rural districts have any houses 
been erected during these years; yet during the 
whole of the time the population has been in- 
creasing at its average pace. As illustrating the 
acuteness of the position, it is estimated that there 
is a shortage of 12,000 houses in Birmingham. 

In examining this question one has always to 
bear in mind that the average number of empty 
houses in any district in normal times varies from 
5 to 10 per cent. In Birmingham it varied from 
8 to 9 per cent, for a long period of years. This 
percentage of empty houses is a matter of great im- 
portance to the community, for without it it would 
be almost impossible to remove to another house 

141 



Housing and Public Health 

either because the existing one was unsuitable or 
because the existing one required such substantial 
repair as to entail removal of the tenant. Even 
before the AVar the whole of these void houses 
were occupied from time to time, except, perhaps, 
a few which were uninhabitable. 

It is not easy to explain the slackening in the 
building of houses before the War. The Royal 
Commission on Housing in Scotland went into 
this matter very carefully, and while admitting that 
it existed and that it was probably due to fear of 
the imposition of new taxes on property, they 
stated that in their opinion there was no real 
reason for such a feeling of insecurity. 

With the ever-increasing population empty 
houses were soon tenanted, and then followed the 
objectionable crowding of two families into one 
house. In a certain number of cases this crowding 
has produced nothing more than inconvenience; 
but there remains a very large number of cases in 
which health and decency and comfort are outraged 
by such overcrowding. Few who have an intimate 
knowledge of life in a cottage can possibly realise 
what is meant by two large families attempting 
to live in one small house. Try, for instance, to 
accommodate the twenty-one members of two 
families ; that is, two fathers, two mothers, thirteen 
sons and daughters between 12 and 25 years of 
age, and four others under 12, in a cottage with 

142 



Shortage and Remedy 

two bedrooms of moderate size and one bedroom 
of small size. This is probably an unusual case, 
but there are thousands nearly as bad. 

An investigation was recently made in Bir- 
mingham into the conditions under which 
discharged tuberculous soldiers have been housed 
since their return from the War. Out of a total 
of 1,300 consumptive soldiers 600 were visited, and 
it was found that among these 600 no less than 107 
were living in houses containing two families. The 
explanation offered in most cases was that the 
soldier's family gave up their house when he left 
for the War and took cheaper lodgings in another 
house. When the soldier returned he found that 
another house could not be found, and he had to 
live and sleep in his infective condition in the 
same room as his wife and other members of 
the family. 

Similarly, great inconvenience occurs in such a 
house when a death takes place. One of the bed- 
rooms has to be reserved for the corpse, and the 
other members of the family have to crowd into 
the remaining portion of the house. 

Again, the occurrence of serious illness in such 
a house produces conditions which are inimical to 
the recovery of the sick person and often intolerable 
to the other members of the household. 

No wonder, then, that of all the questions of 
the day the one which is felt most keenly and which 



Housing and Public Health 

must be handled in the most drastic manner is that 
of making up the deficiency of houses in the first 
instance, and later on grappling with the question 
of dealing with the slum properties. 

Two lines of action have been taken by the 
Government. In the first place, the Local Govern- 
ment Board,* by their letter of February 6, 1919, 
have offered substantial assistance to local 
authorities for building houses. The more im- 
portant paragraphs are the following : 

" The Housing Schemes of local authorities to which 
the State will be prepared to grant financial assistance, 
if they are submitted to the Local Government Board 
within twelve months from this date and carried out 
within a period of two years from this date, ox within 
such further period as may be approved by the Local 
Government Board, are : 

" Schemes carried out by local authorities under Part 
III. of the Housing of the Working Classes Act, 1890, 
for any area for which the Local Government Board are 
satisfied that it is desirable that houses for the working 
classes should be provided. 

" Rehousing schemes in connection with Improvement 
and Reconstruction schemes under Parts I. and II. of the 
Housing of the Working Classes Act, 1890, except that 
no part of the cost of acquiring and clearing a site would 
be made the subject of financial assistance if either (a) 
the site had been acquired or cleared before the date of 
this letter, or () the needs of the district could, in the 
opinion of the Local Government Board, be adequately 
met by means of a scheme under Part III. 

* Now merged in the Ministry of Health. 
144 



Shortage and Remedy 

" The full cost of a, scheme will in the first instance 
be met out of a loan or loans raised by the Local 
Authority, and it is particularly desired by the Treasury 
that authorities should raise such loans in the open 
market wherever it is possible for them to do so. As the 
financial assistance to be granted from public funds for 
housing schemes will take the form of a subsidy as ex- 
plained below, and as it is important to secure that the 
whole of the State assistance may be given under one 
head, any loans granted from the Local Loans Fund for 
the purpose of assisted schemes will not be made at the 
preferential rates ordinarily allowed for housing loans, 
but at a rate fixed by the Treasury 'so as to correspond 
with the full current market rate of interest. 

" In respect of any housing scheme or series of hous- 
ing schemes carried out by a local authority within the 
period referred to above, Parliament will be asked to 
vote financial assistance calculated on a basis estimated 
to relieve the local authority of the burden of any annual 
deficit in so far as it exceeds the products of a rate of a 
penny in the pound on the area chargeable, but there 
will be no contribution towards the cost where the annual 
excess of expenditure over income would not exceed that 
amount. " 



" When the houses have been Ibuilt and let, the 
amount of the subsidy to be paid thereafter during a 
transitional period ending 3ist March, 1927, will be 
settled on a basis of a revised balance sheet showing the 
actual expenditure incurred and the actual rents obtained. 
The interest charged on loans will be taken at the 
amounts actually to be paid if the loans are raised from 
the Local Loans Fund or other outside sources. Where 
the money is provided from accumulated funds in the 
hands of the local authority interest will be calculated 

K 145 



3 Housing and Public Health 

at the rate in force for loans for assisted housing schemes 
from the Local Loans Fund (unless the local authority 
is also borrowing from other outside sources in respect 
of its scheme, in which case interest should be charged 
on advances from accumulated funds at the rate paid for 
the loans from such other outside sources). Where there 
is found to be a deficit in excess of the produce of a rate 
of a penny in the pound, the rate of annual contribution 
so determined will hold good for the remainder of the 
transitional period." 



"At the end of the transitional period the whole 
position will be reviewed in the light of the actual work- 
ing of the -scheme during that period, and the annual 
amount thereafter to be provided out of public funds will 
be adjusted as follows : The amount of the estimated 
annual expenditure will be compared anew with the 
amount of the estimated annual income, and if as a result 
of this comparison it appears that the future annual 
charges to be borne by the local authority are likely to 
exceed the produce of a rate of a penny in the pound, 
the annual subsidy for the remainder of the period of the 
loan will be finally fixed at a sum calculated to cover 
this excess, subject only to such adjustment as may be 
required in consequence of any variation in the amount 
produced by a penny rate. 

" At the final adjustment it will be open to the Local 
Government Board to reduce the amount of the State con- 
tribution if there has been evidence of failure on the part 
of the local authority to exercise due economy in manage- 
ment, or in securing the 'best rents obtainable. In the 
event of the local authority and the Local Government 
Board being unable to reach an agreement on any such 
question the matter will be referred for final settlement 
to some independent tribunal." 

146 



Shortage and Remedy 

The second line of action of the Government is 
to bring in further legislation, in the form of the 
Housing and Town Planning Bill, 1919, with a 
view to improving and facilitating the powers of 
the local authority for building new houses to meet 
the extraordinary needs of the time. 

Clauses i to 6 of this Bill impose on the local 
authority the duty of considering the needs of its 
district in regard to the building of new houses 
under Part III. of the Housing Act of 1890, and 
of submitting within three months, and thereafter 
as often as occasion arises, a scheme setting out the 
number and nature of the houses to be provided, 
the time within which such scheme can be carried 
out, and other similar particulars. Where a local 
authority fails in this duty the Local Government 
Board may require the County Council to prepare 
and carry out a scheme, or they may themselves do 
so at the cost of the local authority. 

Further, where the Local Government Board 
are satisfied that the scheme is necessary under 
Part I. or Part II. of the Act of 1890 in dealing 
with old house property, they may require the local 
authority, by order, to carry out such a scheme 
"irrespective of the sufficiency or otherwise of their 
resources." 

Clause 7 of the Bill provides for financial 
assistance, and the wording is such as already to 
have given rise to much discussion as to its exact 

147 



Housing and Public Health 

meaning. In simple language, the clause pro- 
vides for recouping a local authority a part of any 
loss which may be incurred in building houses 
under the new Bill or under Part I. or Part II. of 
the Act of 1890. The Government have only 
undertaken to recoup the loss if the building or 
reconstruction is done within a time to be specified 
by the Local Government Board and Treasury, the 
amount of the annual payment to be determined on 
the basis of the estimated annual loss subject to 
the deduction of an amount equal to the produce 
of a rate of one penny in the pound levied in the 
area. That is to say, during the War emergency 
the whole of the loss over and above the amount 
raised by a penny rate will be borne by the National 
Exchequer. 

The Bill proposes to give to local authorities 
much wider powers for dealing with Public Utility 
Societies, and it gives to these societies greater 
facilities for obtaining the necessary capital to 
erect dwellings. A Public Utility Society is defined 
as one "registered under the Industrial and 
Provident Societies Act, 1893, or any amendment 
thereof, the rules whereof prohibit the payment of 
any interest or dividend at a rate exceeding 6 per 
cent, per annum." 

Facilities for private individuals. The Bill 
provides for the granting of loans by the Public 
Works Loan Commissioners to private individuals 

148 



Shortage and Remedy 

for the purpose of constructing houses for the 
working classes, such loans to be granted on the 
security of a mortgage up to 75 per cent, of the 
value, provided the houses are constructed in 
accordance with plans approved by the Local 
Government Board. 

It may be said, therefore, that the whole object 
of the Housing and Town Planning Bill of 1919 
is to cause a rapid provision of a large number of 
houses of a character far superior to the majority 
of houses now occupied by the working classes. 
The type, however, is by no means too good; it 
corresponds very closely to the recommendations 
and opinions expressed in the earlier chapters of 
this book. 

The annual rental for these new houses is likely 
to be considerably more than the working classes 
in the past have been accustomed to pay. A house 
which formerly cost 250 to erect will now cost 
probably something approaching ,700, and it is 
likely, therefore, that rentals will be at least double 
what they were in p re-War days. 

On the whole, the outlook for a satisfactory 
solution of the great task which is now before the 
nation is distinctly hopeful. Parliament and the 
local authorities have already made a material 
advance in the direction of solving the problem. 
Bricks, wood, slates, and fittings will be turned out 
in large quantities as the result of Government 

149 



Housing and Public Health 

action in guaranteeing prices. It now remains for 
every local authority and for every manufacturer 
employing large numbers of workpeople to take 
up the work with energy and persistence. If this 
be done, there is little doubt that the housing of 
the people will, in a very few years, be put on a 
plane of excellence which it has never reached 
before. 



150 



SOME STANDARD WORKS 
OF REFERENCE 

LAW 

Publishers 
Allen, " Housing of the Working Classes " 

Butterworth & 

HOUSING Co< 

Thompson, " Housing Handbook " . P. S. King & Co* 
Nettlefold, " Practical Housing " . . Fisher Unwin. 
R. Eberstadt, " Handbuch des Wohnungs- 

wesens " Fischer, Jena. 

P. Alden, " Housing " . . . . Headley Bros. 

TOWN PLANS ] 

Aldridge, " The Case for Town Planning " 

National Housing 
Council. 

Horsfall, ' The Example of Germany " 

Manchester Uni- 
versity Press 

Inigo Twigg, " Town Planning " . . Methuen. 

G. Cadbury, jun., " Town Planning " . Longmans, Green 

&Co. 
Sennett, ' Garden Cities " . . Bemrose. 

OFFICIAL PUBLICATIONS 

Report on the Royal Commission on 

Housing for Scotland. Cd. 8731 . H.M. Stationery 

Office. 

151 



Works of Reference 



OFFICIAL PUBLICATIONS (continued) 

Publishers 

Report to the Local Government Board on 
Questions of Building Construction in 
connection with . the Provision of 
Dwellings for the Working Classes. 
Cd. 9191. is. .... H.M. Stationery 

Office 

Reports of the Women's Housing Sub-Com- 
mittee. Cd. 9166 (id.) and Cd. 9232 
(3d.) ,i 

Report of the Building Materials Com- 
mittee. Cd. 9197. 3d. . . . 

Report of Departmental Committee on 

Bye-laws. Cd. 9213. 6d. 

Reports on the Acquisition and Valua- 
tion of Land, ist Report, Cd. 8998 
(6d.) ; 2nd Report, Cd. 9229 fod.) . 

Manual on the Preparation of State-aided 

Housing Schemes. 2S. 6d. . . 

Circular Letter of Local Government 
Board, March i8th, 1919. id. nett . 

Circular Letter of Local Government 

Board, February 6th, 1919. id. nett . 

Memorandum on Assistance to Public 

Utility Societies. Cmd. 89. id. nett 

Housing (Financial Assistance) Report of 

Committee. Cd. 9238. 3d. nett , 

Cottage Designs, Royal Institute of British 

Architects. 53. nett . . . R.I.B.A. 



INDEX 



ABERDEEN, death-rates in dif- 
ferent areas of, 16 

Air in towns, general whole- 
someness of, 52 

space, standard of, for 

barracks, 33; for lodg- 
ings, 35 

Aldridge's " Town Planning," 
reference to, 80 

Areas, unhealthy, powers of 
sanitary authorities as to, 
131 ; new, building of houses 
in, 134; old, absence of 
powers for, 133 

Army rejects, and unwhole- 
some conditions of life, 17 

Asbestos slates, for roofs, 108 

Ashbins, a necessity in town 
areas, 57 

Ashpits, 57, 80 

Aspect, of living-room, 93 

Aspects, best, 63 

Attic rooms, in artisan's dwel- 
ling, IOO 

BACK roads, for removal of 
refuse, 80 

Back-to-back houses, 24; ven- 
tilation of, 39 ; real disadvan- 
tages of, 39; lighting of, 
40 

Basements, effects of deficient 
lighting of, 40 

Bathroom, a necessity, 47; lava- 
itory basin and water closet 
in, 47 ; cost of, 99 j in rural 
cottages, 119 

Baths, swimming, not a substi- 
tute for domestic baths, 48 



Bedroom floors, accumulation of 
dust beneath, 29 

Bedrooms, in artisan's dwell- 
ing, 99; on ground floor, 100 

Birmingham, death-rates in 
different areas of, 14 ; over- 
crowded areas in 30, 36 ; rela- 
tive overcrowding in, 35 ; 
back-to-back houses in, 40 ; 
houses in, without inside 
water supply, in 1913, 43; 
abolition of pan closets in, 
;6 ; town-planning schemes 
in, 74; shortage of houses in, 
141 ; housing of discharged 
tuberculous soldiers in, 143 

Birth-rates in different areas of 
Birmingham, 14; of Liver- 
pool, 14; of Manchester, 15; 
of London, 15; of Aberdeen, 
16 

Bituminous compositions for 
dampcourses, 26 

Block plan of artisan's house, 
general, 78 

Bourn ville, number of houses 
per acre at, 75 

Bricks, and dampness, 25; for 
dwellings, 105 

CARRIAGEWAYS, width and con- 
struction of, 83 

Cellars, undesirableness of, in 
small houses, 63 

Cement, artificial, use of, in 
construction of dwellings, 105 

Cementing of brickwork, 27 

'Cesspool, water-tight, for rural 
cottages, 121 



'53 



Index 



Chalmers, Dr., on mortality- 
rates as affected by housing, 
in Glasgow, 12 

Cleanliness, surgical importance 
of, 49 

Clean-water-carriage system, 
superiority of, 56 

Clothes washing, communal, 113 

Coalminers, relative healthiness 
of, cause of, 41 

Coal store, in artisan's dwel- 
ling, 99 

Coke breeze concrete, and lino- 
leum, for floors, 109 

Committee on Building Con- 
struction, Report of, on cost 
of suburban cottages, 103 

" Common user " of water- 
closets, courtyards, etc., un- 
desirability of, 54, 55 

Communal services for artisans' 
dwellings, 112 

Compositions, flooring, 109 

Concrete, use of, in construction 
of dwellings, 105 

Cornet, and tuberculous dust, 
29 

Cost of artisan's dwelling, 101 ; 
economies in, 102 ; expression 
of, in percentages, 103 

Cottage, rural, water supply for, 
45, 120; lay-out of, 117; size 
of, 118; dimensions of rooms 
of, 119; scullery and bath- 
room in, 119; water-closet 
accommodation in, 119; 
drainage of, 120; and dis- 
posal of liquid refuse, 120; 
tool houses and fuel stores for, 
121 ; materials for, 121 ; local 
types of, 122 
Courtyards used in common, 53, 

54 

Creches, 113 

Cupboards, in artisan's dwel- 
ling, 101 



DADO of cement for living-room 
of artisan's dwelling, 108 

Oampcourses, materials for, 26 

Dampness, in houses, causes of, 
25, 27 ; how to obviate, 26 

Death-rate, in slums, 4, n 

Death-rates, in different areas 
of (Birmingham, 14; of Liver- 
pool, 14; of Manchester, 15; 
of London, 15; of Aberdeen, 
16 

Diarrho3a and enteritis death- 
rates in different areas of 
Birmingham, 14; of Liver- 
pool, 15; of Manchester, 15; 
of London, 15 

Disposal of liquid refuse of 
country cottages, 120 

Drainage, separate system of, 
84 ; combined systein of, 85 ; 
for rural cottages, 120 

Drains, advantages of short and 
small, 85; desirability of sur- 
rounding with concrete, 86; 
depth of, 86; law as to, 86; 
combined, 86 

Dryness of site, 62 

Dust in houses, and tubercu- 
losis, 29 

Dwelling, healthy, requirements 
of, summarised, 19 

EARTH closets, for rural cot- 
tages, 120 

East Birmingham town-plan- 
ning scheme, 74 

Economics of housing, 7, 101, 
144 

Edinburgh, new, town-planning 
of, in 1767, 76 

Electric current, and artisans' 
dwellings, 50 

Environmental requirements of 
health dwelling, 20 

Estate owners, borrowing pow- 
ers of, for housing, 139 



154 



Index 



FENCE for cottage gardens, bet- 
ter than walls, 89 

Flies, and household refuse, 57 

Floor space, in barracks, stan- 
dard of, 33 

Floors, damp, 27 ; smoothness 
of, 28; wood best material 
for, 109 

Footpaths, width of, 83; con- 
struction of, 84 

Four-roomed houses, mortality- 
rate in, 13 

Fuel stores, for rural cottages, 

121 

GARDEN space, economics of, 80 
Glasgow, tenement buildings in, 

12 

Grit stone, as building material, 

26 
Gully traps, 88 

HALL, in artisans' dwelling, 94 

Hampstead Garden Suburb, 

number of houses per acre in, 

Health, influence of environ- 
ment on, 9; influence of bad 
housing on, 12 

Heating, communal, 112 

Hill, Prof. Leonard, Report of, 
on Ventilation, 32 

Hitzslag, and deaths from heat- 
stroke, 24 

Hot-and-cold water supply for 
artisans' dwellings, in 

Hot-water service, communal, 

112 

House, artisan's, parlour of, 
90 ; scullery of, 91 ; size of 
living-room and parlour 
in, 92; hall and stairs 
f 94 > washhouse of, 
94 ; water-closet accom- 
modation of, 97; larder 
of, 98; coal store of, 99; 



bathroom of, 99 ; bed- 
rooms of, 99 ; attic rooms 
in, 100 ; cupboards and 
shelves in, 101 ; cost of, 
101 ; economies in build- 
ing of, 102 ; percentage 
cost of, 103. (See also 
Cottage, rural) 

Housework, facilities for lessen- 
ing, 49 

Houses, old, reparation of, 
126 

per acre, number of, in 

town-planning schemes, 
73 ; and size of, 79 

shortage of, 141 ; and con- 

sequent overcrowding, 
143; Government action 
to remedy, 144 

unfit for habitation, pow- 
ers and duties of sani- 
tary authorities as to, 
127, 129 

Housing and Town-planning 
Act (1909), 126, 127, 129 

Bill (1919), 135, 

139, 147; object of, 149 

bad, a component of a 

vicious circle, 6 

need for simplification of 

law as to, 140 

of Working Classes Act 

(1890), provisions of as 
to unfit dwellings, 130 
Regulations (1910), and in- 
spection of dwellings, 
128 

rural, deficiency of, a 

main cause of migration 
to towns, 116 

schemes, powers of local 

authorities as to, 134; 
offer of Government as- 
sistance for, 144; and 
Housing and Town-plan- 
ning Bill (1919), 147 



155 



Index 



iNFANT-mortality rates, in dif- 
ferent areas of Birmingham, 
14; of Liverpool, 14; of Man- 
chester, 15; of London, 15; of 
Aberdeen, 16 

Infants, and extremes of tem- 
perature, 23 

Interiors of houses, capacity of 
for being kept clean, 28 

Invalids, and extremes of tem- 
perature, 23 



LAND, purchase of, by local 

authority, 137 
Landings, in artisan's dwelling, 

94 
Landlords, obligation, of, to 

keep houses fit for habitation, 

Larder, in artisan's dwelling, 98 
Lay-out, in town-planning, 75 

of rural cottages, 117 

Lead dampcourses, 26 
Leeds, overcrowding in, 35 
Letch worth, number of nouses 

per acre at, 75 
Lie of ground, and shape of 

house, 78 

Lighting, defective, 40; effects 
of, in iback-to-back houses fac- 
ing north, 40; effects of, in 
basements, 40 

Linoleum, and coke breeze con- 
crete, 109 

Liverpool, death-rates in differ- 
ent areas of, 14; overcrowd- 
ing in, 35, 36 

Living-room, sink in, 44 ; size, 
shape, and aspect of, 92; 
position of doors, windows 
and fireplace in, 94; dado of 
cement for, 108 

Loans for housing, to estate 
owners, 139; to Private 
Utility Societies, 139 ; to local 



authorities, 145; to private 
individuals, 148 
Local authorities, classes for 
which houses must be 
provided by, 135; pur- 
chase of land by, 137; 
borrowing powers of, for 
housing, 138 ; Govern- 
ment assistance for hous- 
ing schemes of, 144, 148 ; 
and Housing and Town- 
planning Bill (1919), 147. 
(See also Sanitary au- 
thorities) 

Government Board, circu- 
lar of, on town-planning 
(1918), 73; report to, on 
construction of road- 
ways, 83 

" Lodging houses for the work- 
ing classes," definition of, 134 
Lodgings, standard of air space 

for* 35 

London, death-rates in different 
areas of, 15 ; overcrowding 
in, 35; housing in, 123; 
parks and open spaces in, 
123; multiplicity of housing 
authorities in, 124; need for 
central housing authority for, 
124; tenement dwellings for 
central parts of, 125 ; adapta- 
tion of middle-class houses in, 
"5 

MANCHESTER, death-rates in dif- 
ferent areas of, 15; over- 
crowding in, 35, 36 

Materials, for artisans' dwel- 
lings, 105 ; for rural cottages, 

121 

Measles death-rates in differ- 
ent areas of Birmingham, 14 ; 
of Liverpool, 15; of Man- 
chester, 15; of London, 15 

Midden privies, 55 



156 



Index 



Mortar, chemical changes in, 

and dampness, 27 
Mouldings, heavy, needlessness 

of, 108 

NEWCASTLE, overcrowding in, 

35 

Nottingham, overcrowding in, 

35 

OBSTRUCTIVE buildings, sani- 
tary authorities and, 130 

One-roomed houses, mortality- 
rate in, 12 

Open bedroom windows, rental 
and, 33 

Open-air schools, 22 

treatment of tuberculosis, 

22 

Overcrowding in dwellings, 32 ; 
and spray infection, 33; 
standards of, 30, 34; 
effects of, 143 

on space, 30; in Birming- 
ham, 30, 36 ; in Liver- 
pool, 36 ; in Manchester, 
36 ; in Southwark, 36 ; 
industrial buildings and, 
37; bye-laws against, 37 

PAN closets, 55 

Parlour, in artisan's dwelling, 
advantages of, 91 ; size 
of, 94 ; in rural cottages, 
desirability of, 118 

Passages between houses, 81 ; in 
dwelling, 94 

Paton, Prof. Noel, and rickets 
in puppies, 66 

Peabody 'Buildings, and 
selected tenants, 66 

Play-rooms, communal, for 
babies and toddlers, 113 

Plumbing, and artisans' dwel- 
lings, in 



Poore, Dr. Vivian, and drain- 
age of rural cottages, 120 

Privacy of back premises, 81 

Private Utility Societies, an< 
housing, 139 

Privies, midden, 55 

Public Utility Societies, and 
housing, 148 

Pulmonary tuberculosis death- 
rates in different areas of. 
Birmingham, 14; of Liver- 
pool, 14; of Manchester, 15; 
of London, 15; of Aberdeen, 
16 

QUINTON, Harborne and Edg- 
baston town-planning scheme, 
74 

RADIATORS, 112, 113 

Recreation, means of, need for 
provision of, 61 

Registrar-jGeneral, and stan- 
dard of overcrowding, 34 

Rents of new artisans' dwel- 
lings, 149 

Reparation of old houses, 126 ; 
powers of sanitary authorities 
and, 131 

Roads, main and subsidiary, 
in town planning, 69, 71 ; 
curved, 77; types of narrow, 
82 ; economies in construction 
of, 83 

Roofs, 107; flat, 107; of bitu- 
minous compounds, 107 ; of 
slate, 107 ; of tiles, 108 j of 
asbestos, 108 

Rough-casting brickwork, 27 

Royal Commission on Housing 
of the Industrial Population 
in Scotland, 35 

SANITARY authorities, duties 
and powers of, as to 
habitability of houses, 



'57 



Index 



127, 129; inspection of- 
houses by, 128; powers 
of, as to unhealthy 
areas, 131. (See also 
Local authorities.) 

Sanitary fittings, 54 

Scullery, in artisan's dwelling, 
desirability of separate, 
91 ; size and uses of, 92 

in rural cottages, 119 

Self-contained houses, definition 
of, 52 ; advantages of, 53 

Set-back of dwellings, in town 
planning, 77 

Shelves, in artisan's dwelling, 
101 

Site, importance of dryness of, 
62 

Sites, hilly, and shape of house, 
78 

Size of houses, and number per 
acre, 79 

Skirting boards, needlessness 
of, 108 

Slates, for roofs, 107; asbestos, 
108 

Slop closets, 56 

Slum-dwellers, responsiveness 
of, to improved conditions, 10 

Slums, death-rates in, 4; in 
Birmingham, 14; in Liver- 
pool, 14; in Manchester, 15; 
in London, 15 ; in Aberdeen, 
16; estimated annual loss oi 
life in, in London and county 
boroughs, 16 

Soot in air, harmfulness of, 60 

Southwark, overcrowding in, 36 

Space around dwellings, im- 
portance of, 51 ; bye-law re- 
quirements as to, 52 

Spray infection, overcrowding 
and, 33 

Stairs, in artisan's dwelling, 94 

Structural requirements ot 
healthy dwelling, 19 



Subsidy, Government, for hous- 
ing schemes, 144 

Sunlight, effect of, on germs, 
41 ; obstruction of, by build- 
ings, in winter compared 
with summer, 78 

Surface pollution, and genera- 
tion of germs, 58 



TEMPERATURE, protection against 
extremes of, in dwellings, 23 

Tenement dwellings, unhealthi- 
ness of, 66; necessity for, in 
central parts of London, 125 

Three-roomed houses, mortality- 
rate in, 13 

Tiles, for kitchen floors, and 
dampness, 25, 27; for roofs, 
108 

Tool houses, for rural cottages, 

121 

Town Planning Act (1909), es- 
sential section of, 67 
Bill (1919), 135, 139, 

M7> J 49 

importance of, 5 ; se- 
paration of manufactur- 
ing from residential 
areas in, 68; provision 
for amenities in, 69, 72 ; 
provision of means of 
transit in, 69 ; different 
kinds of roads in, 71 ; 
and number of dwellings 
per acre, 73 ; Birming* 
ham schemes of, 74; lay- 
out in, 75 ; mixing 
classes in, 75; details of, 
76 ; curved roads in, 77 ; 
set-back of dwellings in, 
77 ; absence of powers 
for, in old built-up 
areas, 133 

Trade nuisances, avoidance of, 
in town planning, 63 



158 



Index 



Transit facilities, provision of, 
in town planning, 61 

Traps, interception, 85 ; gully, 
88 

Two-roomed houses, mortality- 
rate in, 12 



UNHEALTHY areas, powers of 
sanitary authority as to, 131 



VACUUM cleaning, 114 

Ventilation, 32; from chimney, 
38 ; special devices for, 38 ; 
simple test of, 39; of back-to- 
back houses, 39 

Ventilator in pantry or scullery, 
desirability of, in small 
houses, 32 



WAGES, and house rent, 7 

Walls, thickness of, and damp- 
ness, 26 ; smoothness of, 28 ; 
plastering of, 30; hollow, 106; 
impervious covering for, 107 

Washhouses, need for, 59 ; use 
of scullery as, 97 

Washing of clothes, communal, 

IJ 3 

Waste pipes, trapping of, 87 



Water-carriage system, in Bir- 
mingham, and typhoid fever, 
ii 

Water-closet, in artisans' dwel- 
lings, 97 ; upstairs position 
of, 98; in rural cottages, 119 

Water-closets, used in common, 

53. 54, 55 

Water supply, inside, necessity 
for, 44; no legal require- 
ment of, 45 

source of, 46 ; quan- 
tity of per dwelling, in 
town and country, 46 ; of 
rural cottages, 120 
Weather, protection from, in 

dwellings, 21 
Winders, 94 

Windows, aspect of, 40; dirty, 
42; needless screening of, by 
curtains, 43; bay, pros and 
cons of, no; points in con- 
struction of, no; cheap type 
of, in 

Window-size, deficient, 42; bye- 
law requirements as to, in 
new houses, 42 
Wood, best material for floors, 

etc., 109 
Woodwork, smoothness of, 28 

YARD surfaces, 88 



159 



PRINTED BY 

CASSELL & COMPANY, LIMITED, LA BELLE SAUVAGE, 
LONDON, E.G. 4 

F. 20. 719 



o 

N 



P 



3 S 
< H 



University of Toronto 
library 



DO NOT 

REMOVE 

THE 

CARD 

FROM 

THIS 

POCKET 




Acme Library Card Pocket 

Under Pat "Ref . Index File" 
Made by LIBRARY BUREAU 



