TX 

115 



Pauline's 



Srau^Is 



Xl?rou^ tlft 



Culinary 



I>c 




-**w 




Class _L_XXLSl 



GoffirightK?. 



COPYRIGHT DEPOSIT. 




:S^ 



^ 






r ^^* 



Lla v\ :• 



Pauline's Practical Book 
of the Culinary Art 

for Clubs, Home or Hotels 




Omaha, Neb. 
1919 



<y1 



COPYRIGHT, 1919 

BY 

CARRIE PAULINE LYNCH 



©CI. A 52 9 394 



~Vq I 



ai iiiniiuiiiiiHiiiiiiiiniiiiiiiiiiMiiiiiiiiiiiiiininitiiiiiiiiHiiiiMiujiiiniiiiiiiiiiiiiiN 

To Mrs. Anna Robinson Welsh, of Okla- 1 

homa City, Oklahoma, a lady possessed of § 

| noble character, and one whom is especially | 

| fond of entertaining; is this book most | 

cheerfully and sincerely dedicated. 

3iHimimHMiiniiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiHiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiniiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiniiHiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiMiiiiuiiiiii 



Preface 



The aim of this book is to indicate how to serve nicely at break- 
fast, lunch and dinner as well as to give good cooking receipts. 
There is generally only two or three really good modes of cooking 
an article or a material, and there is no need of one becoming 
bewildered or discouraged in trying to select and practice from 
books which contain, often, from a thousand to three thousand 
recipes. And, after all, recipes which have not stood the test of 
time and experience are of but little worth. 

After the Author's twenty years of cooking and serving, from 
east to west, from north to south, she hopes that she has produced 
a simple and practical book which will enable both a cook and a 
family to live well, and at the same time, with reasonable economy. 

These recipes are selected from friends, The Colorado States- 
man, Table Talk, Every Woman's Magazine, etc., to which I am 
greatly indebted for so valuable knowledge. 

I have originated a great many of them and I also have incurred 
obligations, but have given credit and written proper acknowledge- 
ment wherever possible. 

Carrie Pauline Lynch. 



RECEIPT FOR A DAY 



"Take a little dash of cold water, 

And a little leaven of prayer; 
And a little sunshine dissolved in morning air, 

Add to your meal some merriment 
And a thought for "Kith and Kin." 

And have for your prime ingredient; 
Plenty of work thrown in, 

But spice it all with the essence of love 
And a little whiff of play. 

Let a wise old book and a glance above 
Complete the well made day." 



Table of Contents 



Beverages — Miscellaneous 101 

Bread and Rolls 17 

Breakfast 14 

Breakfast and Griddle Cakes 20 

Cake Frosting and Fillings 29 

Cake — Plain and Layer 24 

Canning, Preserving and Jellies 46 

Catsups, Pickles and Relishes 32 

Cereals and Breakfast Foods 38 

Chafing Dish Recipes 36 

Cheese 42 

Confections 31 

Cookies, Doughnuts 34 

Creams, Jellies and Fancy Desserts 62 

Croquettes and Fritters 85 

Directions and Explanation 16 

Eggs and Omelettes 43 

Entrees 39 

Evening Parties 12 

Fish, Oysters, Etc 47 

Fruits 45 

Gentlemen's Suppers 13 

Household Suggestions 104 

Ices, Punches and Ice Creams 65 

Lunch 15 

Meats — Beef, Lamb, Pork, Veal and Mutton 52 

Menus 108 

Pastry — Pies and Puddings 59 

Potatoes 99 

Poultry and Game 51 

Rules for the Hostess 9 

Rules for the Maid or Chef 9 

Salads and Salad Dressings 69 

Sandwiches 79 

Sauces and Gravies 74 

Setting the Table and Serving the Dinner 11 

Something Concerning Economy 13 

Soups 81 

Vegetables 88 

Weights and Measures 16 

What a Servant Should Know 10 

7 



Rules for Hostess 



Woman is ruler of the home kingdom and even with others to 
perform the menial duties she should understand the complete 
regime in order that the mechanism may run in a methodical and 
economical manner, and as the health and comfort of the family 
depends upon the food they eat the knowledge should be considered 
as an art and a science. When establishing your home consider 
your income, do not mind the opinion of "Dame Gossip," nor try 
to "Keep Up With The Jones'," but what you can afford. A cottage 
is far more blissful than a mansion with rent unpaid. A good rule is 
to allow one-fifth of income for rent, or one-third for table expenses, 
lights, and fuel; one-fifth for dress, one-fifth for help, insurance and 
incidentals, the remainder for bank account. Have the dining room 
the brightest place in the home; make food attractive; give time 
to eat slowly; rest a little, and this will prove to be a good world 
after all. A round table sets off a dinner; chairs should be generous 
and firm. A side table covered with a pretty cloth will serve to 
hold tableware one always wants in the dining room. The linen 
should be fine and well laundered; the china and silver bright. 

A small dinner, cooked to a nicety, served with grace to con- 
genial company is most charming. In giving a dinner be sure to 
send out invitations far enough ahead for the guest to send a 
prompt reply. 

Never have over eight persons at a table, when you cannot 
afford to have more than one maid. That is one mistake ladies 
make when giving a dinner. They do not realize the fact that a 
maid can only serve or wait on six or eight persons correctly at a 
table. One can go to large hotels, cafes or restaurants and one 
man, who is a waiter, is only assigned to a table of six people; or 
never more than eight. Now why should a maid be compelled to 
serve or wait on more? It would be better to give two small dinners, 
and have them served nicely than a large one and have it poorly 
served. 

A hostess is required to serve the soup, salad and dessert. 

RULES FOR MAID, COOK OR CHEF 

Having served in the capacity of maid, cook or chef, for over 
20 years, I can truthfully say that the happiest moments of my 
life are when I am preparing a nice meal for company, and to have 
them eat it as though they enjoyed it is the highest compliment 
that could be paid to me. A chef should always dress in white 



with a nice cap; a maid in a nice print or black, with white cuffs 
and collar and nice white apron. A cook should always wear white. 
It is never more expensive than any other wash material. Four 
white dresses will last a cook for two or three years if it is made of 
the kindergarten or galatea cloth and when it begins to wear one 
can always mend it with white and the mended white dress looks 
far better than a mended print dress. 

First always be neat and clean, keep your hair well combed, 
hands and nails very clean. Keep your kitchen range, refrigerator 
and pantries in "Apple Pie order". To have a clean kitchen to work 
in should be a cook's pride. 

The extremes of hair dressing are frowned on and a display of 
jewelry is in bad taste. 

It is vulgar for a waitress or a waiter to wear a crying and 
heavy walking shoe while serving a meal; always wear a soft, easy 
rubber-heeled shoe. 

WHAT A SERVANT SHOULD KNOW 

Everything at the table is passed at the left hand of the person 
seated and not at the right hand. A side dish, or vegetable dish, 
should not be held too high or too far away, but on a level with the 
raised hand of the person seated. Plates with knives and forks 
upon them, or with forks only, should be removed from the left side 
also. A carving fork and knife should not be removed in the dish, 
but a knife tray should be brought to the table according to the 
English way. When handling the dishes in the various courses a 
maid, butler or waiter is not expected to make any remarks as to 
their contents, unless in reply to some inquiry. A small servette or 
thumb napkin should always be used by an attendant when passing 
dishes. A tablespoon and large fork should be placed by the 
attendant in the entree dishes previous to handling them. The 
spoon and fork should be taken from the sideboard. A tablespoon 
only is required when handling vegetables, except with such vege- 
tables as sea kale, cabbage, spinach or any greens and asparagus, 
when a fork also is necessary. 

An attendant should not ask a guest to have a second portion 
of any dish, but should bring it at once, if asked. In placing any- 
thing on or taking anything from a table an attendant should 
never reach across a person seated at the table, however hurried the 
attendant may be or however near at hand the article may appear; 
but should walk quietly to the left side of each person when about 
to place or remove an article. 

In the family circle the hostess of the house is served first 
then the daughters according to their ages, the host and the sons 
according to their ages. 

When a large dinner party is given, the guests should be helped 
in the order in which they are seated, commencing with the lady 
seated at the host's right hand. 

When a fork or spoon is wanted, it should not be handed on a 

10 



tray, but placed on the right hand as required. When a tumbler, 
glass or other side dish is asked for it is handed on a small tray. 

As little noise as possible should be made and all clatter with 
knives, forks and plates avoided. 

Always use a service plate on the table at each place. It is 
bad form to have one seated at an empty space. 

SETTING THE TABLE AND SERVING THE DINNER 

Arrange table in center of room — Spread silence cloth and table 
cloth smoothly with crease lengthwise of table, iron all other creases. 
Place a flower or fruit piece in center, then lay plates at equal 
spaces around the table according to number of guests (see illustra- 
tion). Place two knives with sharp edge toward plate, one-half 
inch from edge of table; place forks, two or three at left of plate; 
soup spoon by side of knife; two teaspoons in front of plate, a bread 




DINNER TABLE 



and butter plate at tip of fork; glasses at tip of knife, then put 
on service "plate" at each place, on four sides salt and pepper or 
individual salt and pepper shakers. 

A balanced menu is as follows: 

First course — A relish, canape, fruit or raw oysters. 

Second course — Thin soup with cracker or bread sticks. 

Third course — Fish with potato, sauce, or cucumber jelly. 

Fourth course — A joint or fillet of beef, one vegetable. 

Fifth course — Ice or punch. 

Sixth course — Game with a salad. 

Seventh course — Dessert. 

Eighth course — Coffee. 

Finger bowls. 

11 



At the appointed hour the attendant announces "Dinner is 
Served." The host with guest of honor proceeds to dining room, 
followed by the rest in pairs ; hostess last to leave the drawing room 
with escort, unless he be a very distinguished guest, when they 
would go first. All are seated at once. The first course is served, 
then remove service plates when water is poured. When wines are 
served the attendant should name the wine offered which can be 
declined if not desired. The lady at right of host is served first and 
so on until completed. Plates should be removed with the left hand 
and replaced with the right. 

Dishes removed from the table should be carefully piled out of 
the way. 

Never crumb the table until after the salad course — in prep- 
aration for dessert when everything except bonbons and center 
piece is removed. Dessert is served then black coffee, and finger 
bowls which should be filled one-half with water, with a geranium 
leaf or a piece of lemon. 

Dinner ended, hostess arises and all return to drawing room; 
guests soon take their departure. 



EVENING PARTIES 

If people can afford to give large evening parties it is less trouble 
and more satisfactory to place the supper in the hands of a caterer 
or cateress. 

For card parties or small companies of thirty or forty persons 
to meet some particular stranger or for literary reunions the trouble 
need not be great. If one has a regular reception evening, ices, 
cakes and chocolate are quite enough; or for chocolate might be 
substituted sherry or a bowl of punch. 

For very special occasions for a company of thirty or forty, 
a table prettily set with some flowers, fruit, chicken salad, croquettes 
or sweet breads and peas, one or two kinds of ice creams and cakes, 
cheese or lettuce sandwiches are quite sufficient. 

Either coffee, tea, champagne, a bowl of punch or of eggnog 
would be sufficient in the way of beverage. 

In preparing for evening company, allow three sandwiches to 
each guest. 

One pound of ground coffee, with white of one egg will make 
iive quarts of coffee, sufficient to serve thirty people. 

Five quarts of chicken salad will serve from thirty to forty 
people. 

One quart of ice cream will serve six to eight persons. 

One cup of grated chocolate and one cup of sugar will make two 
quarts of hot chocolate, sufficient to serve twelve persons. 

One-half pint of whipping cream. 

12 



GENTLEMEN'S SUPPERS 

As ladies have exclusive luncheons gentlemen have exclusive 
suppers. Nearly the same dishes are served for suppers as for 
luncheons, although gentlemen generally prefer more game and 
wine. Sometimes they like fish suppers with two, three or more 
varieties of fish. 

A bill of fare is as follows for a fish supper: 

SHAD 

TARTAR SAUCE GARNISHED WITH SMELTS 

RAW OYSTERS SERVED IN A BLOCK OF ICE, WITH VERY THIN BUTTER 

SLICES OF BOSTON BROWN BREAD 

SWEET BREADS TOMATO SAUCE 

SARDINE CANAPE 

DEVILED CHICKEN 

FILLETS OF DUCK LETTUCE SALAD 

MAYONAISE OF SALMON GARNISHED WITH SHRIMP 

WELSH RAREBIT 

CHARLOTTE RUSSE PUNCH OR ICE ICE CREAM AND CAKE 

Raw oysters can be served in the half shell, with quarters or 
halves of lemon in same dish, or select a ten-pound block of ice, 
melt with a hot flat iron a symmetrical shape cavity in the top to 
hold the oysters; chip also from the sides at the base so that the 
ice block may stand in a large platter on a napkin. When the 
oysters are well salted and peppered place them in the ice; let 
remain in some place where the ice will not melt until time for 
serving, then decorate with leaves or smilax vines or a row of 
lemon quarters or halves may be placed around the platter at 
base of ice. A very pretty effect served on a table at night. 

SOMETHING CONCERNING ECONOMY 

"A willful waste will bring a woeful want." 

It is often said that a wasteful woman can throw away, out of 
a teaspoon, more than a man can bring in on a shovel. 

I have learned through my travels that economy is the road to 
wealth and one has no idea of the little leaks through careless cook- 
ing, that can be mastered if one would only practice economy. 

I am so economical in my cooking, not "stingy," that one of my 
friends said, "Pauline, you can turn water into wine." 

I do not know of a race of people who are as economical as the 
French; they save everything and utilize it in some savory dish. A 
crumb of bread is never wasted by them ; all odd morsels of bread 
are dried in the oven, pounded and put away in a tin box ready 
for breading cutlets, chops, croquettes, fish and for stuffing. 

Clarify all pieces of suets or drippings and place aside in a pail 
for fryings. 

Save all slices of tomatoes, leaves of cabbage, bits of cooked 
vegetables for soups. 

13 



Always keep a piece of salt pork and a pound or so of bacon in 
the house. They can always be used for flavoring many things 
and especially it is good for "larding" chickens, turkeys, fillet of 
beef, birds, cutlets, etc. Secure a larding needle (cost 15 cents and 
will last forever). Place little strips of pork in end of needle, draw 
the needle through parts of the meat leaving the pork midway. It 
is only a few moments work which give both flavor and style. 

Save all cooked pieces of cauliflower, string beans, beets, peas, 
etc., for salad. 

The outside pieces of celery that are not nice enough for the 
table can be cooked, cut in small pieces, boiled in a little clear salt 
water, creamed. It is a nice vegetable. The leaves can be dried 
for soups, teas and seasonings. 

If butter becomes rancid or tainted, add a little more salt, a 
pinch of soda, a piece of raw -potato, bring to a boil on the stove, 
remove from fire, let settlings remain at bottom, pour off in earthen 
jar or crockery — put aside for cooking purposes. 

Bits of ham can be ground fine, mixed with a little (cooked) 
salad dressing, put away in an earthen jar — fine for sandwiches. 

BREAKFAST 

It would be well if more attention were given to breakfasts 
than is usually bestowed. The table might have a fresher look 
with flowers or a flowering plant in the center. Breakfast is the 
hardest meal to prepare for the day because, after a fast of twelve 
or thirteen hours, the system requires something substantial as a 
preparation for the labors of the day. It is hard to say just what 
is best. I consider a two-course breakfast the best and more desir- 
able for an active person. Porridge or cereals and fruit for the first 
course, which is an advantage to the cook, for while the family is 
eating the first course the cook is preparing the second course or 
the real breakfast. 

To set the breakfast table the coffee urn and silver service 
necessary are placed in a straight line before the hostess. The one 
or two kinds of substantials are placed in front of the host; vege- 
tables and entrees are placed on the sides. Do not have them 
askew. It is quite as easy for an attendant to place a dish in a 
straight line as in an oblique angle with every other dish on the 
table. 

The breakfast should be varied — for instance, one morning a 
nice beefsteak with a tomato sauce, another with a brown sauce or 
garnished with water cresses, green peas, potato balls, etc. 

Fruits of all kinds should be served at breakfast. In season 
sliced tomatoes with a French or mayonnaise dressing is a most 
refreshing breakfast dish. 

Another great resource is in the variety of omelettes, and with a 
little practice nothing is so easily made. There are meat balls, 
croquettes with tomato cream, apple or brown sauces which are 
delicious when freshly and carefully made. 

14 



Breakfast parties, known as the English breakfasts, are very 
fashionable, being less expensive than dinners or luncheons and 
just as satisfactory to guests — (Usually ranging from 9:00 o'clock 
to 12:00 o'clock M.) Dinner parties are mere formalities, but you 
invite a man to breakfast because you want to see "him." 

A menu for an English breakfast is as follows: 

MELONS OR ANY FRUIT 

PORRIDGE CEREALS 

LITTLE FRIED PERCH 

SMELTS TROUT 

A SAUCE TARTAR 

THE PLATTER GARNISHED WITH SHRIMPS AND OLIVES 

MASTERMAN'S TEA COFFEE CHOCOLATE 

YOUNG CHICKENS SAUTED WITH CREAM GRAVY SURROUNDED WITH 

POTATOES 
POACHED EGGS ON ANCHOVY TOAST 
LITTLE FILLETS OF PORTERHOUSE STEAKS, WITH TOMATOES A'LA 

MAYONNAISE 

PEACHES — QUARTERED SWEETENED AND HALF FROZEN 

FINGER BOWLS 



LUNCH 

Luncheon is more especially a ladies' meal. If one gives a 
luncheon ladies alone are generally invited. On ordinary occasions 
it is an informal meal when everything is placed upon the table at 
once. An attendant remains in the dining room only long enough 
to serve the first round of dishes, then leaves, taking for granted 
that confidential conversation may be desired. In entertaining at 
lunch, the food is served in the same manner as for dinner: chops, 
chickens, oysters, salads, chocolate and many other good things 
being provided. Each being served as a separate course. The 
principal dishes served are patties, croquettes, shell fish, game salad, 
all kinds of entrees and cold deserts. Boullion is generally served 
as a first course in boullion cups; or a cup of chocolate, with whipped 
cream on the top, is often served as a first course. 

The following is a menu for a luncheon: 

BOULLION 

DEVILED CRABS OLIVES 

SWEET BREAD A'LA MILANAISE 

FILLETS OF GROUSE CURRANT JELLY SARATOGA POTATOES 

ROMAN PUNCH 

FRIED OYSTERS GARNISHED WITH CHOWCHOW 

CHICKEN SALAD MAYONNAISE OF CHICKEN 

WINE JELLY WITH WHIPPED CREAM 

NEAPOLITAN ICE CREAM 

FRUIT BONBONS 

FINGER BOWLS 

15 



DIRECTIONS AND EXPLANATION 

Starchy foods require more time and long cooking to break up 
the starch cells, gentle cooking is required for albuminous foods, 
namely meats, eggs and milk — they are hardened by too rapid and 
long cooking. 

Pure water will boil at 212 degrees, and will not become any 
hotter by violent and long boiling. The temperature of hot grease 
is much greater than hot water or boiling water. There are five 
or six different ways of cooking meats: boiling, frying, sauteing, 
broiling, pan-broiling, roasting and braising. 

Boiling is to gently simmer with water sufficient to cover on 
top of stove. Fowls or joints should be well tied or skewered into 
shape before boiling, the kettle should be kept covered, merely 
raising the cover to remove the scum. 

Frying means cooking by "immersion" in hot fat sufficient to 
cover. 

Sauteing is cooking in a pan with little fat and is not considered 
so healthful. 

Broiling is cooking over or under hot fire which requires frequent 
turning. 

Pan-broiling is cooking in a very hot pan after being rubbed 
with a piece of suet. 

Roasting is hardening and searing in hot oven. 

Braising is cooking in a braising kettle having a deep cover 
which holds hot coals, the cooking being done from above as well 
as below. It is almost air tight, thus preventing evaporation and 
the article to be cooked imbibes whatever flavor one may wish to 
give it. 

WEIGHTS AND MEASURES 



1 quart of sifted flour equals 1 

pound. 
1 quart of powdered sugar equals 

1 pound and 7 ounces. 
1 quart of granulated sugar 

equals 1 pound and 9 ounces. 
1 pint of closely packed butter 

equals 1 pound. 
Butter size of an egg equals 2 

ounces. 
10 eggs equal 1 pound. 
3 cupfuls of sugar equals 1 

pound. 

To 1 quart of flour use 2J/£ teaspoons of baking powder. 

To 2 cups of flour use 1 teaspoon of baking powder; to one quart 
of flour use 1 teaspoon of soda and 2 teaspoons of cream tartar or 
to 1 quart of flour use 1 cup of sour milk, Yi teaspoon of soda. 



5 cups of sifted flour equals 1 
pound. 

1 neaping tablespoon equals Ke 
of a gill. 

4 gills equal 1 pint. 

2 pints equal 1 quart. 

4 quarts equal 1 gallon. 

1 teaspoon baking powder equals 
x /i teaspoon soda, 1 teaspoon 
cream tartar. 

To 1 quart of flour use 2Yi tea- 
spoons baking powder. 



16 



USEFUL HINTS 

Be punctual, never late, with meals. If a thing is worth doing 
at all, it is worth doing well. 

Never try to make a cake unless you have time, for many a 
cake has been spoiled by too hurriedly making and baking. 

Pouring sour milk down the drain of a kitchen sink will cut all 
grease. 

To grease potatoes all over will lessen the time to bake. 

To prevent suet, when chopping, from adherring sprinkle over 
with flour. 

Always sift flour and sugar before measuring. 

Long spurs and pale legs are a sign of an old turkey. The 
gobbler, while it has less white meat, is supposed to have a better 
taste than the hen turkey. 



Bread and Rolls 



BREAD IS THE STAFF OF LIFE 

"Good bread makes the homeliest meal acceptable," and the 
coarsest fare appetizing and there is no one thing on which the 
health and comfort of a family so much depends as the quality of 
its home-made bread, yet it requires experience to make good bread. 
Bread should be put in a rather hot oven, then bake slowly, lowering 
the heat after it is in oven. 

Dry yeast cakes or Yeast Foam give satisfaction and is best 
used when one's time is limited, but Fleischman's compressed yeast 
if fresh, is recommended. 

Rule for Yeast Foam:— Soak 1 cake in 1 cup of warm water 1 
hour, add a cup of flour, beat well together, let stand before making 
sponge. After supper place in a warm place until morning, then 
take 1 3^2 quarts of flour, place in mixing bowl with 2 tablespoons 
of sugar, 1 teaspoon of salt, x /l CU P °f butter and lard mixed, 1 
pint of warm milk (not hot) pour in sponge. Then pour sponge in 
flour with its ingredients, mix thoroughly, knead 10 minutes. 
Place away in a warm place to rise for about 2^2 hours, then knead 
again about 5 minutes. Set away to rise for J^ hour, then pull off 
(not cut) in small loaves, put in baking pan for about }/<l hour, 
let rise — then bake for % of an hour or allow l /i hour to each loaf, 
if in individual loaves. 

17 



THE "MEDAL" BREAD— PAULINE'S PRIZE 

1 cake Fleischman's yeast 1 teaspoon salt. 

1 cup of warm water. \}/2 cups hot water. 

1 tablespoon sugar 2 cups milk 

1 tablespoon butter and lard Flour 
mixed. 

Soak yeast in 1 cup of luke warm water 20 minutes, put in mixing 
bowl lard and butter mixed, sugar and salt, then pour over the l^ 
cups hot water, stir until all is dissolved, pour in the milk, then add 
a small portion of flour, then add 1 cup of yeast, mix to a rather 
stiff dough, knead 5 minutes, put away in mixing bowl already 
greased with a little lard, set bowl in a pan of very warm water to 
rise for l^ hours, then knead for 15 minutes, put away to rise 
again for 30 minutes, pull off in separate loaves, put in individual 
pans, let rise for 15 minutes, then bake from 20 to 25 minutes. 
Bread is made and baked in 3 hours. 



GRAHAM BREAD 

Use sponge as for "Medal" bread, adding Graham flour with 
1 cup of white flour until a very stiff batter, rise but once, make in 
loaves, set away to rise; bake in a slow oven. 



RYE BREAD 

Use same receipt as for "Medal" bread, adding 2 cups of white 
flour with the rye flour, make a very soft dough, let rise, knead, 
put in pans, brush over with egg, then sprinkle with caraway seed; 
rise until light, bake for one-half hour to each loaf. 



PARKERHOUSE ROLLS 

Y2 pint of milk scalded and 1 tablespoon sugar 

cooled 2 tablespoons of butter 

x /i cake of compressed yeast }/£ CU P warm water 

1 teaspoon salt 6 cups of flour 

Soak yeast in one-half cup warm water until soft, 3 cups flour 
in mixing bowl, add milk, sugar and salt, then yeast; beat until 
smooth, then add more flour until a soft batter, set away to rise 
until full of bubbles, then add butter beating it in with a spoon, 
adding more flour until a stiff dough, knead 10 minutes, let rise 
double its size, then turn out on board; roll out as you would for 
biscuit, cut with a biscuit cutter, pull out lengthwise brushing over 
with soft butter, fold double, press down so they will not lose their 
shape, place in rows in a long baking pan, let rise, then bake 20 
minutes. 

18 



BREAD STICKS 

Roll dough long and narrow, cut 6 inches in length, lay very 
straight in pan; not close together, brush over with milk and 
sprinkle over a little salt, rise, bake from 10 to 15 minutes. To be 
used for soup, etc. 



COFFEE CAKE 

Take enough dough from the "Medal" bread to roll out, add 1 
e gg) 34 CU P sugar, 1 tablespoon butter, work well into dough 
spreading in a baking pan, let rise, brush top with a beaten egg, 
sprinkle over sugar, a little cinnamon and a few currants; nice for 
breakfast with coffee. 



RAISIN BREAD 

1 cup raisins, x /± teaspoon cinnamon, 34 CU P sugar, add to dough 
of "Medal" bread; bake slowly 30 minutes to each loaf. 



RAISIN MUFFIN 

Add 1 cup of raisins to muffin batter. 



SALT RISING BREAD 

(MRS. A. L. WELSH) 

One pint milk (let come to boiling point), fill in enough meal that 
will make a stiff mush, set away to sour or ferment for 14 or 18 
hours— say at noon will be ready by morning. Do not set away in 
a cool place. Next morning add 1 3^2 pints warm milk or x /i water 
and Yi milk, stir in enough flour to make a good batter not stiff, 
set away to rise for 1 or 2 hours in a pan of water which will be the 
sponge, then use as much flour as will make a stiff batter, add \ l /2 
teaspoons of salt, lump lard big as egg, then knead for 10 or 15 
minutes, put away to rise for x /i hour, then knead again for 5 or 
10 minutes, cut into loaves, place in a well greased baking pan, let 
rise 20 or 30 minutes, bake slowly for 20 minutes to each loaf. 



WAR BREAD 

Take all stale bread, Betsy Ross or any other, wet, drain, add 
sponge, stiffen with enough flour to knead well, place in pans, bake 
slowly. Delicious. 

19 



Breakfast and Griddle Cakes 



DIXIE BISCUITS 

2 cups flour Yi teaspoon salt 

1 teaspoon baking powder Y tablespoon lard 

1 egg (white) Y cup milk 
A little melted butter 

Sift 2 cups flour with baking powder and salt adding lard by 
rubbing it with spoon, beat white of egg, add to milk, mix in to 
flour with spoon, place on board, toss about until smooth enough 
to roll, roll thin, rub melted butter over, cut with biscuit cutter, top 
double over by placing one over another, prick with fork, bake in a 
quick oven. 

BISCUITS 

2 cups flour Yi teaspoon sugar 
1 Yi tablespoons lard Yi teaspoon of salt 
1 teaspoon baking powder 1 cup milk 

Sift flour, sugar, salt and baking powder together, adding lard, 
rubbing in well with spoon, then milk making a soft dough, roll out, 
bake in a quick oven. 

BEATEN BISCUIT 

\Yi cups flour 1 tablespoon lard 

Y teaspoon salt 1 cup of milk 

Sift flour with salt, rub in lard, mix with milk to a stiff dough, 
beat the dough well with either a rolling pin or a flat iron (end of 
iron) until it begins to blister or until it snaps when a piece is 
pulled off quickly, beat out 34 inch thick, cut with cutter, prick 
with fork, place in pan a little distance apart, bake 20 minutes. 
When cold fine served with salad. 



GRAHAM MUFFINS 

2 cups Graham flour 1 teaspoon baking powder 

1 tablespoon butter 1 egg 

1 tablespoon sugar Yi teaspoon salt 

Yi cup white flour \Yi cups milk 

Mix all to make a batter as thick as for griddle cakes, bake in 
muffin rings about 20 minutes in a quick oven. 

20 



RICE MUFFINS 

1 cup boiled rice Yl pint flour 

Yi teaspoon salt Yi tablespoon sugar 

1 teaspoon baking powder 2 eggs 

1 cup milk 

Mix in a smooth and rather firm batter, and bake as above. 



BREAKFAST MUFFINS 

\Yi cups flour 1 teaspoon sugar 

2 eggs Yi teaspoon salt 

\Yi cups milk 1 teaspoon butter 
\Yi teaspoons baking powder 

Put flour in bowl, make a hole in center, put yolks in, stir 
gradually with the milk, add sugar, salt, (melted) butter, baking 
powder, beat well for 5 or 6 minutes or until smooth, lastly the 
beaten whites, grease rings with butter, fill Yi full, bake from 20 
to 30 minutes in a moderate oven. Delicious. 



CORN MUFFINS 

\Yi cups corn meal 2 tablespoons flour 

1 teaspoon salt \Yi teaspoons sugar 

2 eggs 1 tablespoon butter 
YL teaspoon soda 1 cup sour milk 

1 cup hot water 

Put meal in bowl with flour, sugar and salt sifted through, 
pour over hot water, add sour milk with soda stirred in and eggs 
well beaten, then melted butter, grease rings with lard, fill two-thirds 
full, bake 30 minutes in a quick oven. 



WAFFLES 

2 cups flour Yi teaspoon salt 

2 eggs 1 teaspoon sugar 

1 tablespoon butter 2 cups milk 

2 teaspoons baking powder 

Put flour, salt, sugar all well sifted together in a bowl, add beaten 
yolks of eggs, add melted butter, baking powder, then beaten 
whites, grease waffle irons with lard, have hot, pour in batter to 
fill lower half, cook from 3 to 4 minutes, turn iron, brown other 
side, remove to hot plate, pour over melted butter, serve immed- 
iately. Fine for breakfast or can be used with stewed chicken at 
a "Pennsylvania dinner". 

21 



CORN BREAD 

2 cups corn meal 2 tablespoons flour 

2 cups sour milk 1 teaspoon salt 

1 egg 2 tablespoons butter 
}/± teaspoon soda 

In bowl place milk, stir in soda, add meal (with flour and salt 
sifted in) add melted butter, then egg, stir all well together, pour 
in a well greased hot baking pan, cook until brown from 15 to 30 
minutes. 




PANCAKES 
Made from Idlewild Powdered Buttermilk 




TEA BISCUITS 
Made from Idlewild Powdered Buttermilk 



TEA BISCUITS 

Three cups flour, 34 teaspoon soda, Idlewild powdered butter- 
milk, Y% teaspoon salt, 1 teaspoon "Advo Baking powder sifted in, 
work in 13^ tablespoons lard, mix all with 1 pint Idlewild butter- 
milk, cut in rounds. Will make 30 biscuits and are nice served with 
Masterman's coffee of tea. 

22 



POPOVERS 

2 cups milk 2 cups flour 

2 eggs Yi teaspoon salt 

Sift in bowl flour and salt, break eggs in center, add 1 cup milk, 
stir until smooth, add rest of milk, beat until batter is full of bubbles, 
turn into warm buttered cups or irons, bake for 25 minutes in a 
moderate oven until brown all over. There should be fourteen 
popovers. 

GRIDDLE CAKES 

Idlewild powdered buttermilk, \Yi pints flour, 1 tablespoon 
sugar, x /i teaspoon salt, 2 eggs, 1 3^2 pints buttermilk (equal to 6 
teaspoons buttermilk powder to \Yi pints water), add Yl teaspoon 
soda, 1 heaping teaspoon Advo baking powder. Bake on griddle, 
serve with maple syrup, 1 tablespoon butter. 



WAR BREAD 

(idlewild) 

1 cake Yeast Foam soaked in 1 cup warm (not hot) buttermilk, 
place in mixing bowl, 2 pints stale Betsy Ross bread crumbs 
already damp and well drained, add 2 cups flour, stir in yeast, 
set over night, next morning add 1 quart buttermilk slightly 
warmed, Yi teaspoon soda, 1 tablespoon butter and lard mixed, 
1 teaspoon salt, 1 tablespoon sugar, 6 cups flour, knead 10 minutes, 
set to rise 30 minutes in pan of warm water, place in pans to rise 
20 or 30 minutes, bake 30 to 45 minutes. Will make 4 loaves and 
1 small pan of 12 rolls. 



NUT BREAD 

(PAULINE) 

One egg beaten in cup, fill same cup with milk, add another 
cup milk, V/i cups sugar, 4 cups flour, 4 teaspoons baking powder, 
1 teaspoon salt, stir well, add 1 cup slightly chopped nuts and 1 of 
raisins, grease pans, pour in dough, let stand 20 minutes, then bake 
slowly 1 hour. 

SPOON CORN BREAD (SOUTHERN) 

Scald 1 pint milk, stir in Yi P mt corn meal, add Yl teaspoon salt, 
scant spoon butter, Y teaspoon baking powder (Advo). When 
cool add 3 egg yolks, beat all well, then add or fold in whites beaten 
stiff, pour all in a well greased dish, bake Yl hour in hot oven, 
serve with "Spoon." 

23 



BOSTON BROWN BREAD 

(MRS. A. L. WELSH, OKLAHOMA CITY) 

Two cups sweet milk, 1 cup sour milk, 2 cups corn meal, 1 cup 
flour, 1 scant cup black molasses, 1 teaspoon salt, 1 teaspoon soda, 
mix all ingredients together, steam three ho jrs. 

RICE GRIDDLE CAKES 

One cup cold boiled rice, 3^2 teaspoon salt, 1 egg, % pint milk, 
1^2 cups flour, 1 teaspoon sugar, 1^ teaspoon baking powder, 
stir egg in rice having it free from lumps, add milk, then flour, 
with salt, sugar and baking powder sifted in, mix into smooth 
batter, have griddle well heated, make medium cakes, brown 
nicely, serve with maple syrup. 

FLANNEL CAKES 

Two cups flour, 1 teaspoon salt, 2 eggs, 1 tablespoon brown 
sugar, 2 teaspoons baking powder, 1% cups milk, sift together 
flour, sugar, salt, and powder, add milk, beaten eggs, mix into 
smooth batter that will run in rather continuous stream from bowl, 
bake on good hot griddle rich brown color in cakes large as sauce 
dishes, serve with maple syrup. 



Cake — Plain and Layer 



Pound cakes on any plain cake is more difficult to make than 
layer, therefore it requires more care, the best of flour, butter, 
sugar and eggs. A general rule is that a hotter oven is required 
for small cakes than is necessary for large ones. Be sure that eggs 
are both fresh and cold that the whites may be beat stiffer and 
lighter. Always grease and flour the layer cake tins and grease the 
pan well and line it with greased white paper for large cakes. 

SPLENDID PLAIN CAKE 

(PAULINE) 

2 3/£ cups flour (Swansdown) 1 cup sugar 

1 cup milk 1 teaspoon baking powder 

2 eggs Yi CU P butter 

Mix butter, sugar, eggs and vanilla to a stiff cream, add milk 
and lastly flour with 1 teaspoon baking powder sifted in, beat whole 
mixture for 6 or 7 minutes, bake in loaf 30 minutes. 

24 



PLAIN CAKE 

(MISS CORA BURFORD) 

2 cups flour 134 cups sugar 

3 eggs 34 CU P butter 

1 cup milk x /i teaspoon vanilla 

1 teaspoon soda 2 teaspoons cream tartar 

Beat eggs separately, melt butter, beat milk, add to sugar the 
yolks, melted butter and warm milk, flavoring, then flour with soda 
and cream tartar sifted in, beat well, add whites, bake for 40 or 
45 minutes. 



WHITE CAKE 

5 eggs (whites) 2 34 cups flour 

1 cup milk }/i teaspoon lemon flavoring 

3/£ teaspoon soda 1 teaspoon cream tartar 

34 cup butter 134 cups sugar 

Cream sugar and melted butter together, add milk, flour with 
soda and cream tartar sifted in, beat the mixture well for about 
10 minutes, beat whites to a stiff froth, add to the mixture, bake 
slowly for 45 minutes in a moderate oven. 



GOLDEN STAR CAKE 

2 cups flour 134 cups sugar 

5 eggs (yolks) 3^ CU P milk 

2 teaspoons baking powder 3^ CU P butter 
34 teaspoon nutmeg 

Cream butter and fine granulated sugar and when smooth stir 
in yolks beaten long until light colored, add milk, flour in which 
have been 2 level teaspoons baking powder, then flavor with nut- 
meg; butter a star shaped pan thoroughly, dredge with flour, fill 
2 /z full, bake slowly for 1 hour. 



NUT CAKE 

Z x /i cups flour 2 cups sugar 

2 /i cups butter (scant) 1 cup sweet milk 

13/2 lbs- nu ts 8 eggs (whites) 
1 teaspoon baking powder. 

Cream, butter and sugar, add milk, then flavor into which has 
been sifted the baking powder, add flavoring to taste, whites well 
beaten, bake 45 minutes. 

25 



GINGER POUND CAKES 

% lb. flour J4 lb. butter 

Yi lb. sugar 1 teacup sour cream 

4 eggs Yi pint molasses 

1 teaspoon soda 1 teaspoon ginger 

34 nutmeg J/2 teaspoon cinnamon 

Cream butter and sugar, and the well beaten eggs, molasses 
(with soda dissolved), spices, cream and flour, bake nearly an hour 
in a moderate oven. 

COLONIAL CAKE 

(MRS. GARRETSON, PORTLAND) 

2 cupfuls bread dough Yi cup butter 

2 cups sugar 2 eggs 

34 teaspoon cloves Yi teaspoon cinnamon 

Yi teaspoon mace Yi teaspoon nutmeg 

I cup (seeded) raisins 34 cup (sliced) citron 
Yi teaspoon soda 

Work sugar, butter, eggs, fruit, spices and soda into the bread 
dough with your fingers and directly toward your body, put in 
cake pan, and set to rise until light, (not quite double its bulk), 
bake in oven, temperature little lower than for bread, when cold, 
pour over icing made of yolk of 1 egg and cup of powdered sugar 
with a little lemon juice in it. 

ANGEL FOOD CAKE 

(MRS. T. W. WILLIAMSON) 

II eggs (whites) Yi teaspoon cream tartar 
1 cup sugar 1 cup flour 

Yi teaspoon lemon flavoring 

Beat eggs to a stiff froth, add sugar, then flour into which has 
been sifted the cream of tartar, then vanilla, beating all the time 
until it is put in pan, bake in moderate oven 40 minutes. Be sure 
to sift flour 4 or 5 times. 

DEVIL'S FOOD CAKE— LAYERS 

3 cups pastry flour 1 Yi cups sugar 

Yi cup butter 4 teaspoons baking powder 

1 cup milk 4 squares chocolate 

4 eggs 

Put milk and chocolate in a double boiler, cook until smooth, 
stand aside to cool, beat butter to a cream, add sugar, yolks of 
eggs beaten until very light, sift flour with the baking powder, 
adding in small quantities to the cold chocolate mixture, then beat 

5 minutes, stir in carefully the well-beaten whites, bake in three 
layers in a moderate oven 20 minutes, when cold put together with 
cream filling to which has been added 1 cup of chopped nuts 

26 



CREAM FILLING 

1 cup sugar 1 cup milk 

2 eggs (whites) 2 tablespoons flour 

1 teaspoon vanilla 

Heat milk, mix sugar and flour together, pour milk over, put in 
a double boiler, cook 5 minutes, while hot pour in the well-beaten 
whites, add vanilla, cool and ready to use. Lemon, orange or 
chocolate may be used. 

LAYER CAKE NO. 1 

(mamie peters) 

4 cups flour 1 cup butter 

2 cups sugar 1 cup milk 

3 eggs 1 teaspoon baking powder 
1 teaspoon vanilla 

Cream butter and sugar, adding one yolk at a time until all 
have been used, beating thoroughly; add milk, flour with baking 
powder sifted in, vanilla, and lastly the well-beaten whites, bake 
in 3 layers. 

LAYER CAKE NO. 2 

lYl cups pastry flour 1 cup sugar 

3 eggs Y /i cup butter 

1 cup milk 1 teaspoon cream tartar 
Yi teaspoon soda 

Cream butter, sugar and yolks together with your hands, add 
milk, then flour with soda and cream tartar and work together 
for 5 minutes and lastly the beaten whites, bake in 3 layers for 
20 minutes. 

VELVET SPONGE CAKE 

(MRS. A. W. MEYER) 

2 cups pastry flour 2 cups powdered sugar 

6 eggs 1 3^2 teaspoons baking powder 

speck of salt 3^ teaspoon vanilla 

Beat yolks and sugar 15 minutes, add 1 cup of boiling water, 
then vanilla, flour with baking powder sifted in, lastly the beaten 
whites, bake in a moderate oven 40 minutes. 

SPONGE CAKE 

6 eggs 1 cup flour 

1 cup sugar Pinch of salt 

}/§ teaspoon cream tartar 

Beat whites with the salt, add sugar, beat yolks separately, 
put all together with the cup of flour, flavor to taste, bake 45 
minutes. 

27 



CARAMEL CAKE 

Yi cup butter 1^ cups sugar 

5 eggs (whites) 1 cup milk 

1 teaspoon flavoring 2J^ cups flour 

1 teaspoon baking powder ■ 

Cream butter well, add sugar, gradually flavoring milk, then 
flour which has been sifted with baking powder, beat whites, bake 
in layers. 

CARAMEL FILLING 

1 Yi cups brown sugar Yi cup cream 

1 tablespoon butter Yi teaspoon vanilla 

Cook sugar, butter, and cream in a double boiler until stiff 
enough to spread, remove from fire, add vanilla. 

BLACKBERRY CAKE 

(miss janie norman) 

4 cups flour 1 x /i cups sugar . 

1 cup sour milk Y cup butter 

1 cup blackberry jam 1 cup English walnuts 

1 teaspoon soda (scant) 4 eggs 

1 cup chopped raisins Yl teaspoon cinnamon 

Y teaspoon cloves. 

Beat yolks of eggs, sugar and butter to a cream, add spices, 
nuts, fruit, then milk with soda stirred in, add flour, stir all together 
for three or four minutes, lastly fold in the unbeaten whites, bake 
either in a loaf or in sheets. 

ICING FOR SAME 

Two cups sugar, 1 cup butter, 1 cup milk, 1 teaspoon vanilla, 
pinch of soda, put sugar, butter and milk on a stove until it boils, 
say 10 minutes, add soda and vanilla, remove from fire, beat until 
cold. Use immediately. 

POUND CAKE 

(MRS. WIMS, DENVER) 

1 lb. of butter (scant) Yl lb- sugar 

10 eggs 1 lb. flour 

Yi grated nutmeg Yl teaspoon lemon juice 

1 teaspoon water 2 tablespoons brandy 

Cream butter, add sugar, add lemon juice, beat yolks separately, 
add them to butter, sugar and water, then flour, working it all 
together with your hand for 45 or 50 minutes, add nutmeg, brandy, 
lastly the beaten whites, fold in carefully, bake in a very slow oven 
for 1 hour. 

28 



FRUIT CAKE 

(pauline's) 

One pound of butter, 1 pound of sugar, 1 pound and 2 cups of 
flour, cream butter and sugar well, sift with the flour, teaspoon of 
mace, 2 whole nutmegs ground, 1 teaspoon cloves, 1 of allspice, 
2 large teaspoons cinnamon, 2 teaspoons cream tartar, add to the 
flour butter and sugar, dusting enough flour on fruit first, then 
use the remainder, mix all well, then mix the fruit thoroughly in 
with your hands as follows: 2 pounds raisins, 2 pounds currants, 
1 pound citron, x /i pound orange peel, x /i pound lemon peel; add 
to this 1 round teaspoon soda dissolved in a little warm water, 
Yi glass sherry, }/i glass brandy; add to all this mixing with your 
hands 12 eggs beaten separately, bake in small cakes or sheets 3 
hours beginning them in slow oven, should rise x /i hour before 
browning. Excellent. Never fails. 



Cake Frostings and Fillings 



BOILED ICING 

One egg (white), 1 cup sugar, 4 tablespoons water, put sugar 
and water on stove, cook until it threads, beat white of 1 egg, 
pour syrup in egg, beat until cool, 3^2 teaspoon lemon juice, spread 
on cake. 

HONEY ICING 

One and one-half cups granulated sugar, add \Yi cups of honey, 
8 tablespoons water, whites of 2 eggs, boil sugar and water until 
it threads, add honey slowly beating, remove from fire, pour over 
stiffly beaten whites continually beating until it holds its shape, 
heap over cake, drawing in a whirl with a fork, add a little lemon 
juice. 

VANILLA ICING 

(miss parloa) 

Break the white of one large egg into a bowl and gradually 
beat into it 1 cupful of confectioner's sugar, beat for 3 minutes, add 
half a teaspoonful of vanilla extract and spread thinly on the cakes. 

29 



CHOCOLATE ICING 

(miss parloa) 

Make a vanilla icing and add 1 tablespoonful of cold water to it, 
scrape fine 1 ounce of chocolate and put it in a small iron or granite 
sauce pan with two tablespoons of confectioner's sugar and one 
tablespoonful of hot water, stir over a hot fire until smooth and 
glossy, then add another tablespoon of hot water, stir the dissolved 
chocolate into vanilla icing. 



TRANSPARENT ICING 

Rub enough powdered sugar into the unbeaten white of an egg 
to form a thick paste, spread on cake. Can see through. 



PLAIN ICING 

One cup sugar, 5 tablespoons milk. Boil sugar and milk to- 
gether 5 minutes, remove from fire, stir until cold, spread on cold 
cake. 

ROYAL ICING 

One and one-half cups sugar (powdered), 2 eggs (whites), 1 
tablespoon cold water, 1 teaspoon lemon juice, put whites of eggs, 
water, lemon juice together, add enough powdered sugar until 
thick. 

LEMON FILLING 

One cup sugar, 2 tablespoons butter, 2 eggs, 2 lemons (juice). 
Beat all together and boil until like jelly. Use oranges as above for 
orange filling. 

FIG FILLING 

One pound figs, 1 cup sugar, ^ lemon, 2 tablespoons wine. 
Soak figs 12 hours in just enough water to cover, chop fine next 
morning, boil until tender, add sugar, cook until smooth enough to 
spread, add juice and wine, spread between layers. 



CARAMEL FILLING 

One and one-half cups brown sugar, Y2 CU P butter, Yi teaspoon 
vanilla, saltspoon cream tartar. Boil sugar, butter and cream 
tartar together until thick, stir until cold, add a tablespoon of 
sweet cream, flavor with vanilla. 

30 



Confections 



TAFFY 



One cup of molasses, x /i cup of sugar and butter size of a hickory 
nut, boil all together ten minutes stirring all the time. 

COCOANUT DROPS 

One pound cocoanut, Yl pound powdered sugar, the white of 
one egg, work all well together and roll into little balls in the Hands, 
bake on buttered tins. 

CHOCOLATE FUDGE 

(MRS. O. FALLON) 

Three cups sugar, x /i cup milk, 1 tablespoon butter, J^ cup 
cream, 2 ounces of Baker's chocolate. Cook all together, beat 
until stiff, grease a platter, pour in, then cut in small squares when 
cold. 

CREAM CANDY 

Two cups sugar, x /i cup water, 2 tablespoons vinegar, butter 
size of walnut, 1 teaspoon flavoring, boil together, when almost 
stiff pour in buttered pans and pull when cold. 

MARSHMALLOWS 

Two ounces of white powdered gum arabic, cover with 8 table- 
spoonfuls of water for 1 hour, stand the vessel in boiling water, 
stir until the gum is dissolved, strain through a cheese cloth into 
a double boiler and add 7 ounces of powdered sugar, stir this over 
the fire until the mixture is white and stiff which will take at least 
45 minutes, then stir in hastily the well beaten whites of four eggs, 
take from fire, beat rapidly for 2 minutes, add a teaspoon of vanilla, 
dust a square tin with corn starch, pour in mixture and stand in a 
cool place, when cold cut into squares, dredge in powdered sugar. 

STUFFED DATES 

Remove seeds from dates, fill space with nut meats, close, roll 
in powdered sugar. 

ORANGE OR LEMON PEEL CANDIED 

Soak peel 24 hours, boil in water until tender, remove all inside 
skin, then boil in a thick syrup until like candy, remove, pack away 
in boxes. 

31 



CANDIED FRUITS 

Apricots, cherries, peaches, plums or any fruits; make thick 
syrup of 1 cup sugar, 4 tablespoons water, boil fruit until tender, 
leaving fruit in syrup 12 hours, take out, drain, sprinkle sugar over 
each piece separately, dry in a moderate oven or slowly in sun. 

FONDANT 

One cup granulated sugar, 4 tablespoons water, pinch cream 
tartar, cook until balls, place on platter, cool, then work with 
wooden spoon until it is a creamy white paste. Spread into layers 
Yl inch thick, cut in little squares or rounds. Can mix nuts or 
raisins into flavored fondant. 



Catsups, Pickles, Etc. 



CHILLI SAUCE 

(PAULINE) 

Six large tomatoes scalded and peeled, four green peppers, one 
carefully peeled onion, all chopped finely together and mixed with 
1 tablespoon of salt, 2 tablespoons sugar, 1^ cups strong vinegar, 
boil all for 1 hour, then bottle while hot. 

CUCUMBERS IN OIL 

Secure a gallon jar, get enough cucumbers to fill it, after they 
are sliced and peeled take about 4 onions (large, white ones), a 
layer of cucumbers and a tablespoon of good olive oil, then a few 
slices of onion and 3^ teaspoon of salt for every layer, then another 
layer of cucumber, oil, onion and salt and so on until jar is filled, 
have ready a mixture of 1 quart of vinegar into which has been 
heated, 1 tablespoon whole cloves, 8 or 10 peppercorns, x /2 teaspoon 
whole spice, 2 bay leaf and 34 teaspoon caraway seed, set aside, 
cover tightly. Will be ripe in 10 days, and will last all winter. 

DILL PICKLE 

Secure medium sized cucumbers, place in keg, cover with hot 
salt water for nine days, pour off water, put a layer of pickle or 
cucumber, a layer of dill, say a good handful, so on until keg is 
filled; lastly the dill, pour over a solution of cold water with a 
pinch of alum dissolved, press down pickle with rocks. Add onion 
and bay leaves after tieing up with a rag. Be sure they are kept 
below the water and set away. 

32 



TOMATO CATSUP 

One half bushel tomatoes, 4 ounces salt, 3 ounces black pepper 
(ground), 1 ounce cinnamon, x /i ounce ground cloves, 1 teaspoon 
cayenne pepper, one gallon vinegar, slice the tomatoes, stew until 
soft, rub through a sieve fine enough to prevent seed from going 
through, then boil the pulp and juice until thick, stirring continu- 
ously to prevent burning, add vinegar, a small teacup of sugar and 
spices, boil 5 minutes, remove from fire, bottle. 



CHOW CHOW 

Get 2 quarts very small or Gherkin cucumbers, 2 quarts very 
small onions, 4 heads cauliflower, broken in small pieces, 6 green 
peppers chopped fine, one quart green tomatoes cut small, 1 gallon 
vinegar, 1 pound mustard, 2 cups sugar, 2 cups flour, 1 ounce 
tumeric, place vegetables in brine over night then cook for 1}^ 
hours next morning, pour off brine; have ready the vinegar with 
sugar, mustard, flour and spices in; pour over after it has been 
heated, bottle. 

PICCALILLY 

One peck of green tomatoes sliced, x /i peck onions sliced, 1 
cauliflower cut small, 1 peck small cucumbers, leave in salt water 
over night, next morning pour off water, put in kettle with }/£ cup 
of scraped horse-radish, 1 ounce tumeric, 1 ounce whole cloves, 34 
pound whole pepper, 1 ounce cassia buds, 1 pound white mustard 
seed, 1 pound English mustard, cover with cold vinegar, boil 15 
minutes stirring constantly. Bottle or place in a large earthen jar. 

CUCUMBER CATSUP 

One gallon cucumber grated, 6 large onions, vinegar, salt, 
cayenne pepper; grate and strain off water of cucumbers through 
a colander, chop onions very fine, add to cucumbers, add vinegar, 
salt, cayenne pepper and horse-radish to taste, bottle. Do not cook. 
Good for canned beef. 



STUFFED PEPPERS— (MANGOES) 

Two dozen peppers, 1 head cabbage, 2 onions, 6 or 7 green 
tomatoes, all chopped finely together, drain, pour off water, add 
one tablespoon salt, 1 teaspoon whole peppers to mixture, cut off 
tops of peppers, take out seeds, stuff with above, put on top sticking 
them on with toothpicks, lay them in a jar. A heated solution of 
vinegar, tablespoon salt, teaspoon mustard, pinch alum, allspice, 
cloves and cinnamon can be poured over, tie jar up with a cloth 
and set away. 

33 



WALNUT CATSUP 

Fifty walnuts (July best month), 1 pint vinegar, 1 ounce black 
pepper, Yl ounce allspice, Yl ounce bruised ginger. Prick walnuts 
with a fork, put them in brine, 1 pound salt to each quart of water. 
Let them remain in this nine days, changing brine 3 times, put 
them in sun until they turn black, place in jars, scald vinegar and 
spices in the above proportions cover closely and keep dry. Can 
be used in six weeks. 



Cookies, Doughnuts, Etc. 



GINGER BREAD 

1 cup sour milk 1 cup'hiolasses 

1 tablespoon butter 2 eggs 

1 teaspoon soda Y2 cup sugar 
3^ teaspoon ginger 

Stir all together, bake in a shallow cake pan. 
DOUGHNUTS 

(PAULINE) 

1 cup sugar 1 cup milk 

3 eggs 2 teaspoons baking powder 

Mix all together adding flour enough to make a stiff dough, 
roll out, cut with a cutter, drdp in hot lard for 3 or 4 minutes. 

"HERMITS" 

(PAULINE) 

Three eggs, 1 cup butter, \ x /i cups sugar, 1 cup raisins, 34 cup 
citron chopped fine, 1 teaspoon each of cloves, cinnamon, allspice 
and flour enough to roll them, cut in rounds. 

VANILLA WAFERS 

1 lb. butter 2 cups sugar. 

3 eggs 2 tablespoons sweet milk 

2 teaspoons vanilla 2 teaspoons baking powder. 

Wash salt out of butter, add sugar, eggs, milk, vanilla, baking 
powder and flour enough to make it stiff enough to roll, cut in 
rounds, grease pan with a feather in butter, put in wafers, sprinkle 
with sugar, bake in a quick oven. Delicious. 

34 



NUTMEG COOKIES 

2 cups sugar % cup butter 

2 /h cup sour milk 2 eggs 

6 cups flour Yl teaspoon soda 
1 teaspoon nutmeg 

Mix all together, roll thin, bake in a quick oven. 



CRULLERS 

1 cup sugar Yl cup milk 

2 eggs Yl tablespoon butter 
\Yi teaspoons baking powder 3 cups flour 

Y teaspoon cinnamon Y teaspoon nutmeg 

Beat eggs, sugar and butter together, add milk, spices and flour 
with baking powder in,' turn out on board, knead, roll out Y mc h 
thick, cut in squares or cut in strips, turning them in fingers, etc., 
drop in hot lard, cook like doughnuts, when cold have ready a large 
paper bag with 2 cups powdered sugar, put about 6 or 7 crullers in 
bag and shake gently, take out, and so on, until all are sugared. 



NUT OATMEAL COOKIES 

Two eggs, 1 cup sugar, 1 cup butter and lard mixed, 5 table- 
spoons milk, 1 tablespoon cinnamon, 1 level teaspoon soda, 2 cups 
oat meal, 1 cup flour, \Yi cups raisins, 1 cup slightly chopped nuts, 
drop off spoon in a greased pan, bake 10 or 15 minutes. 



NUT COOKIES 

Beat 3 whites very stiff, add Yi pound chopped nuts, 1 cup 
pulverized sugar, mix and drop in small spoonfuls on greased pan, 
bake slowly. 

CHOCOLATE COOKIES 

Mix 1 cup sugar, Yl CU P melted butter, 2 well beaten eggs, 2 
chocolate squares, Yl teaspoon vanilla, pinch salt, Yl CU P flour, 
few nuts if desired, spread thin and bake slowly. 



LAYER CAKE 

laqqoG (JDLEWILD BUTTERMILK) 

Two and one-half cups of flour, 1 cup buttermilk, Y cup butter, 
I 1 cup sugar, 3 eggs (1 white for icing), ■ Y teaspoon soda, 13^ tea- 
spoon ; baking powder (Advo), flavor to taste, .can use any filling 
but fine with boiled icing using Idlewild Powdered buttermilk. 

35 



Chafing Dish Recipes 



The use of the chafing dish dates back to the time of Louis XIV. 
It is most serviceable in preparing late suppers and always lends 
an air of hospitality and good cheer. The most useful articles for 
cooking with the chafing dish are eggs, cheese, oysters, lobsters, 
shrimps, crabs, dried beef and ham. 

WELSH RAREBIT 

1 tablespoon butter 1J/2 lbs. fresh cheese 

1 teaspoon mustard Dash cayenne 
Yi pint beer or ale 

Put butter in chafing dish, when nearly melted add cheese cut 
in small dice, mustard and cayenne pepper, stirring constantly 
adding the ale or beer to prevent burning. Serve hot on Betsy 
Ross toast or crackers. 

CHEESE CROUTON 

2 tablespoons thick cream 1 tablespoon butter 
Yi pt. cheese (grated) 1 tablespoon paprika 
1 teaspoon salt 

Put all in the chafing dish, working them to a smooth paste 
and spread on Betsy Ross toasted bread or crackers. 

OYSTER RAREBIT 

1 cup of oysters 2 tablespoons butter 
Yi lb. cheese (mild) Saltspoon salt 
Dash of cayenne 2 eggs 

Parboil oysters and drain, reserving liquor, remove tough 
muscle, melt butter in chafing dish, add cheese, salt and pepper. 
As fast as cheese melts, add oyster liquor and slightly beaten eggs. 
When the mixture becomes smooth, add the soft parts of the oysters. 

OYSTER A LA CREME 

2 doz. oysters Yi CU P bread crumbs 
2 bay leaves YL teaspoon nutmeg 

1 teaspoon salt 1 teaspoon pepper 

2 tablespoons butter Yi pt- cream 

Melt butter, add cream and seasonings when it boils, add 
crumbs, oysters blanched and drained, cook two or three minutes, 
serve on hot Betsy Ross toast. 

36 



CLAMS A LA NEWBURG 

1 pt. clams 2 tablespoons butter 

3 tablespoons sherry wine x /l CU P cream (thin) 

3 eggs (yolks) Yi teaspoon salt 
Dash of cayenne 

Heat clams, remove soft parts, chop up hard parts, melt butter, 
add chopped clams, seasonings and wine, cook 7 minutes, add soft 
part of clams and cream, cook 3 minutes then add egg, yolks beaten 
slightly, diluted with some of hot sauce. 



BUTTERED LOBSTERS 

3 tablespoons butter \Yi lbs. of lobsters 

}/2 teaspoon lemon juice x /i teaspoon salt 

Dash pepper 

Remove lobster meat from shell and cut into small pieces, melt 
butter in chafing dish, add lobster, while hot, season and serve. 



CREAMED SHRIMPS 

Yi pint cream 2 eggs 

1 teaspoon paprika 1 glass wine 

Salt Nutmeg 

Chop shrimps into fine pieces, put in chafing dish, add cream, 
paprika, salt and nutmeg, stir mixture constantly as it begins to 
boil, stir in two well-beaten eggs and wine, serve hot. 



SCRAMBLED EGGS WITH TOMATO SAUCE 

(MRS. J. A. CRANSTON) 

3 eggs 1 Yi cupf uls tomatoes 

2 teaspoons sugar 3 tablespoons butter 

3^ teaspoon salt Dash pepper 

Cook tomatoes and sugar 5 minutes, melt butter, add tomatoes, 
seasonings and beaten eggs, cook until creamy, serve with toasted 
bread. 

DRIED BEEF WITH EGGS 

Y lb. dried beef Yl cup cream (thin) 

2 tablespoons butter 3 eggs 

Melt butter in chafing dish, add cream and beef, let cook 10 
minutes, stir in eggs. Serve as soon as eggs are cooked. 

37 



^S HAM AND EGGS 

(MRS. ELY) 

Y2 lb. lean boiled ham 2 tablespoons butter 

1 tablespoon chopped onion 6 eggs 

34 saltspoon pepper 

Melt butter in chafing dish, add "diced" ham, pepper, onions 
and eggs. Stir constantly until eggs are cooked. 



Cereals and Breakfast Foods 



Cereals are healthful, more especially with growing children, 
owing to their being a perfect food. Being made up of starch, 
gluten, gum, fatty matter, water and salt. Some cereals require a 
longer time for cooking and yet one need not be afraid of cooking 
them too long. 

CRACKED WHEAT 

One cup wheat, 1 quart water, soak the wheat in water over 
night. Next morning cook for 1 hour same as oatmeal, adding 
a little salt. Serve with sugar and cream. 

BARLEY 

One-half cup barley, 2 pints water, soak for 2 hours, cook 3 
hours, add salt, in a double boiler. Serve with cream and sugar. 

CORN MEAL MUSH 

(laura Thompson) 

One quart water, 1 cup corn meal, 1 teaspoon salt, wet meal in 
a little cold water to prevent lumping, pour meal in hot water and 
salt, stirring briskly Yi hour. Serve hot with milk, add 1 tablespoon 
flour. 

FRIED MUSH 

Turn mush while hot into narrow oblong bread pan, previously 
wet with cold water. Next morning cut into 3^2-inch slices dipped 
in egg, then bread or cracker crumbs and brown in hot fat. Serve 
with maple syrup. Breakfast dish. 

HOMINY GRITS 

Hominy grits, after being cooked for a long time, can be treated 
as mush. 

38 



HOMINY 

One cup hominy, salt, 1 quart water, put all together in a double 
boiler, let cook slowly for 5 or 6 hours. Stir in butter when done 
and serve with milk. 

HOMINY BALLS OR CAKES 

Take cold hominy, stir in egg, a little flour to hold the grains 
together, drop from a spoon in a pan or skillet of hot fat, turn over 
and brown. Served on a platter as a breakfast dish. 

DRY CEREALS 

Shredded wheat biscuits, grape nuts, corn flakes, etc. heated 
served with cream or any raw or cooked fruits. 



Entrees 



A course of dishes, served at the beginning of a dinner or between 
the different courses. 

FRIED FROGS LEGS 

Put frog legs on stove in boiling water for five minutes, then 
blanch by putting in cold water, dry them, salt and pepper, dredge 
with flour, fry in butter to a good brown, serve with parsley. 

CHEESE CANAPES 

Cut a sufficient number of thin rounds of Betsy Ross bread, 
melt 4 ounces of butter in a frying pan, when hot saute the bread 
a delicate brown, then spread each round with a layer of grated 
cheese that has been mixed to a smooth paste with mayonnaise, 
put in the center a small pimento (stuffed) olive, and lay around 
the edge a border of olives, pitted and cut into quarters. 

CAVIAR CANAPE 

Cut Betsy Ross bread in rounds or fingers, saute in butter to 
a rich brown, spread with a paste of chopped onion, mayonnaise and 
caviar. 

ANCHOVY CANAPE 

Cut Betsy Ross bread in fingers, saute in butter to a rich brown, 
spread with Anchovy paste with slices of hard boiled egg on top, 
garnish with olives. 

39 



SARDINE CANAPE 

Remove bone, mash up sardine, with a mayonnaise dressing, 
serve on fingers or rounds of Betsy Ross bread that have already 
been sauted in butter, garnish with olives. 

POTATO ROSES 

Mash potatoes, add two yolks and 1 white, put in pastry bag, 
tube star shape, press through tube and as they come through 
guide in circle until it comes to a point, brush with other white 
of egg and butter, put in oven to brown, serve on same dish. 

CELERY RELISH 

Secure large, firm stalks of celery, wash and cut in lengths of 
2 inches, dip in egg and cracker crumbs, fry in deep fat or sauted 
in butter. Serve with a brown sauce. 

STUFFED PEPPERS 

(PAULINE) 

Secure a nice size, sweet green pepper, cut the top partly off, 
remove seed and center, chop it up with tomatoes adding cracker 
crumbs, salt, pepper and a little melted butter, place the filling in 
pepper, fasten on top with toothpicks, put in pan with a little water, 
salt, butter, bake for Y2 hour or until tender, basting often to pre- 
vent blistering. 

DEVILED OYSTERS 

Drain, wash and boil oysters, saving liquor after boiling, chop 
oyster, add them to liquor, add a little milk, butter and flour 
rubbed together, bring to a boiling point, add the beaten yolks of 
two eggs, a little salt and a good seasoning of cayenne, pour into 
shells or ramekins, dust with Betsy Ross bread crumbs, brown in a 
quick oven. Too much cooking will curdle the mixture. 

BAUDANS 

One pound chicken (white meat) hashed, l /i pound salt pork, 
}/2 pound mushrooms, 1 tablespoon onion, 3 eggs, dash pepper, 
salt and J/£ cup chicken liquid, grind mushrooms and onions twice, 
cook in small cups half full, set in pan of water, place in oven 20 
minutes. The dark meat can be used for croquettes. 

FRICASEED OYSTERS AND MUSHROOMS 

One cup oysters washed and drained, x /i cup mushrooms sliced, 
2 tablespoons butter, Yi cup cream, 2 tablespoons flour, y 2 cup 
mushroom liquor, yolks of 2 eggs, Yi teaspoon salt, pinch pepper, 
serve in ramekins after having all been cooked for 10 minutes. 

40 



LOBSTER RISSOLES 

One large lobster boiled, 2 tablespoons butter, yolks of 3 eggs, 
y$ cup Betsy Ross bread crumbs, 1 tablespoon anchovy sauce, 
paprika, salt and parsley, rub to a smooth paste, beat anchovy 
sauce and eggs well together, shape, roll in crumbs, eggs and 
crumbs, fry a light brown. 



SWEETBREAD AND CALVES BRAINS 

Parboil until tender sweetbreads, break in pieces, serve with 
peas and mushroom sauce, serve in cups garnished with mushrooms. 
Calves brains may be served in same way. 



CHICKEN CROQUETTES 

One and one-half cups meat (dark) ground fine, Yi cup stock, 
Yi cup thin cream, 1 level tablespoon butter, 4 tablespoons flour, 
y± teaspoon celery salt, 1 teaspoon chopped parsley, Y teaspoon 
black pepper, Yi teaspoon salt, a few drops onion juice, shape, dip 
in egg, roll in cracker crumbs, cook in hot fat, as for doughnuts; 
serve with either peas or mushrooms. 



CANAPES BARTHOLOMEW 

For each person use a slice of bread, cut triangle, trim off crusts, 
dip each slice in melted butter, roll in grated Parmesan cheese, 
lay on a greased pan, sprinkle with finely chopped ham then dust 
thickly with more Parmesan cheese, season with paprika and put 
in hot oven for 5 minutes. 



STUFFED CELERY 

Wash tender celery hearts and put them into cold water to 
become crisp, mash fresh cream cheese, then add chopped nuts and 
chopped olives to taste, stuff the celery just before serving and 
serve with toasted crackers. 

The remaining celery can be used either for soup or as a vege- 
table creamed. 

OYSTERS A LA CREOLE 

Put on stove in sauce pan a pint of oysters, washed and drained, 
a teaspoonful of Worcestershire sauce, a stalk of celery cut fine, 
yolks of 2 eggs, 1 cup of cream, when the edges of oysters begin to 
cockle, add salt to season and Yi cup of sherry wine. Serve on 
Betsy Ross toast. 

41 



Ch 



eese 



After a long period of investigation, Mr. Wilson, Secretary of 
Agriculture, has come to the conclusion that a pound of cheese 
has nearly the same food value as two pounds of fresh beef or two 
pounds of eggs. There being quite a variety of cheese, one can 
always have on hand their favorite. There are the plain American 
cream, Parmesan, Roqueforte, Neufchatel, Camenbert, Lim- 
burger, Swiss, etc. American cheese can be used for salads, entrees, 
sandwiches and all cooking purposes as can also Parmesan. 

Roqueforte cheese may be used with Masterman's coffee for 
afternoon dinner or served with Bent's crackers, split and toasted. 

CHEESE FONDU 

Mix 1 cup milk, 1 cup Betsy Ross bread crumbs, 1 cup grated 
cheese in double boiler, when cheese is melted add 1 beaten egg, 
2 tablespoons melted butter, season with salt, paprika, little 
mustard, cook until thick and serve on buttered toast. 

CHEESE BALL SALAD 

(PAULINE) 

One chopped pepper (green) mixed with Neufchatel cheese 
rolled in balls with an almond stuck in top. Served on lettuce 
leaves. Makes a delicious salad with French dressing poured over. 

CHEESE TIMBERS 

Beat whites of two eggs very stiff and dry adding a speck of 
salt and paprika, fold in 4 tablespoons of grated cheese, brown in 
hot fat by dropping from a teaspoon, serve hot on lettuce leaves 
or on a platter in a bed of lettuce with mayonnaise dressing in 
center of dish, surrounding with a few olives. 

CHEESE SOUFFLE 

Use two tablespoons butter, y% pint grated cheese, 2 table- 
spoons thick cream, salt, a little cayenne, three eggs, put butter, 
cheese and cream in double boiler and when melted stir in well 
beaten eggs, season, stir until eggs are cooked, serve hot. 

CHEESE OMELETTE 

Two eggs, 1 tablespoon butter, 1 tablespoon cheese, salt, 
cayenne, melt butter, beat eggs slightly, add a little of the melted 
butter, salt, cayenne and cheese, use the remainder of butter, add 
the mixture, cook until dry without stirring, roll and sprinkle with 
grated cheese. Use chafing dish. 

42 



CHEESE STRAWS 

Use 3 tablespoons of dry grated cheese, add to it Y2 pint of 
sifted flour seasoned with salt and paprika, rub together with a 
tablespoon of butter and cold water, turn onto floured baking board, 
roll out thin, cut half the paste into straws and the rest into rings, 
bake until yellow and crisp in a moderate oven and serve with the 
straws laid in the rings. Substitute for crackers with salad. 

CHEESE STRAWS 

Use puff paste or pie paste, roll into a square, sift grated cheese 
over, fold, then roll 4 inches long, 34 inch thick, brush over with 
egg, sift over cheese, cut in 34-inch strips, have all same length and 
lay side by side. Bake quickly and serve with salad. 

COTTAGE CHEESE LOAF 

One cup cooked kidney beans, 1 tablespoon melted butter, 
2 cups cottage cheese, 1 teaspoon salt, 1 cup chopped peanuts, 1 
cup Betsy Ross bread crumbs, 1 teaspoon paprika, 2 tablespoons 
chopped onion, 1 cup tomato juice, mix all, form in loaf, bake 3^> 
hour, serve with pimento sauce. 

PIMENTO SAUCE 

One cup milk, dash pepper, \ x /i teaspoons cornstarch, 1 salt- 
spoon salt, 2 tablespoons butter, cook until thick, when done add 
juice and 3 pimentos chopped fine. 

COTTAGE CHEESE PIE 

(STELLA THOMPSON) 

Two tablespoons each butter and cornstarch, 34 teaspoon salt, 
Yi cup milk, 2 /i cup honey, 1 cup cottage cheese, grated rind of 
lemon or orange, 3 eggs, leaving (one white) for merringue, place 
in pie tin on raw crust, bake until set. 



Eggs and Omelettes 



EGGS AND BACON 

Fry slices of bacon, when done remove from pan, keep hot, add 
to fat in pan the eggs carefully broken one at a time, sprinkle 
with salt and pepper, turn if desired, trim ragged edges, arrange in 
center of platter with bacon around the eggs. 

43 



SHIRRED EGGS 

Brush egg shirrers or ramekins with butter, break an egg in 
each, sprinkle with salt and pepper, bake till the whites are firm. 



SCRAMBLED EGGS 

Allow 1 tablespoon milk, pinch of salt, a dash of pepper to 
each egg, whip all up together, pour in frying pan with y 2 teaspoon 
butter to each egg, stir and cook until creamy. 



DEVILED EGGS 

Boil eggs hard, remove shells while warm, cut in half lengthwise, 
take out yolks, mash yolks well, add butter, a little mustard, rub 
into smooth paste, add grated ham, a little salt, a dash of white 
pepper, mixing all well, fill whites of eggs with mixture, serve on a 
bed of water cress or lettuce leaves. 



EGG SALAD 

(PAULINE) 

Boil eggs hard, remove shell, cut in lengthwise halves, place on 
a platter of lettuce, pour over French dressing 



PLAIN OMELETTE 

Beat yolks and whites of 4 eggs separate, add to yolks 1 table- 
spoon milk for each egg, Y2 teaspoon flour, salt, pepper and lastly 
the beaten whites, pour in frying pan where a tablespoon butter 
has melted, cook slowly to prevent burning for 15 minutes, raise 
up occasionally from center, when set, remove to platter after it 
has been folded in pan, serve at once. 



SPANISH OMELETTE 

(rorer) 

One onion, x / 2 saltspoon salt, 6 tablespoons water, J4 pound of 
bacon, put bacon thin slices into frying pan, add Y2 cup water, 
cook until water evaporates, then fry the bacon carefully, remove 
the bacon, add onion chopped fine, cook on back of stove for 15 
minutes, break eggs in bowl, beat until mixed, add water, salt and 
pepper, draw the pan with the onions over the fire, when hot turn 
in egg, shake and lift, drawing the soft part underneath until the 
omelette is set, fold once, turn into the center of a heated platter 
.and serve immediately. 

44 



Fruits and How to Serve 



Oranges for breakfast can be served whole on plate with spoon, 
peeled, divided in quarters, halfway down, points curled back, 
can be sliced and easy to peel or cut in pieces or sections, or juice 
extracted, served in a glass. It is better when eaten without sugar. 

Strawberries, if large, can be served without removing hulls, 
dipped in powdered sugar and served on plate. Or they are rinsed 
in collander, hulled and placed in dish; serve with powdered sugar 
and cream. Raspberries and blackberries can be served the same 
way. 

Cherries rinsed, serve whole with stems or remove pits. Pre' 
pare a sugar syrup pouring over, pack in ice and salt until thoroughly 
chilled. Serve as first course or as a salad serve in sherbet glasses. 

Peaches are served whole, with outside well rubbed or slice and 
serve with sugar and cream or slice, sprinkle with sugar. Chill and 
serve. 

Grape fruit is cut in halves, loosen pulp from sides and separate 
sections and with a spoon eat pulp and juice for breakfast. Grape 
fruit with a maraschino cherry in each half and a little sherry wine 
poured over, then set away to get cold, is served as a first course at 
dinner or luncheon. Or y% teaspoon currant jelly to each half is 
another nice way for either breakfast or luncheon. 

CANTALOUPE 

Keep on ice until needed, cut in halves, remove seeds, fill with 
chopped ice and serve. Can use in place of dish for serving ice 
cream or salad. Garnish with grape leaves. 

WATERMELON 

Chilled and cut in sections, or remove red center, seeds, break 
up in small pieces, heap up in glass dish, with shaved ice. Dish up 
and serve with powdered sugar in sherbet glasses. 

Apples baked or fried are good for breakfast. 

Small fruits dipped in slightly beaten white of egg and rolled 
in sugar and dried are fine. 

Compotes or fresh fruit stewed in syrup are good and very 
wholesome for children. Also good served with cake as dessert. 

45 



Canning, Preserving Fruit and 
Jelly Making 



The success of canning and preserving depends upon the des- 
truction of all germs by well heating fruit, then sealing tight while 
still hot. 

Always allow from 34 to 3^ pound of sugar to every pound of 
fruit such as peaches, apples, pears, etc. For berries allow 1 pound 
of sugar to every 4 pounds of fruit. Put sugar and fruit on stove to- 
gether and when it comes to the boiling point put in cans and cover 
tight. Cherries, after having removed stems and pits, can be 
canned in the same way. Pineapple can be peeled or shredded with 
fork. Use about 34 of sugar to %-pound of pineapple. Make a 
syrup by putting just enough water on to cover it. Put in pine- 
apple and let it boil for 5 or 6 minutes, then fill cans % full of fruit 
the remainder with syrup and seal at once. 

Rhubarb, especially good for pies, can be canned without sugar. 
Peel, cut in small pieces, place in cans, put cans in a kettle of cold 
water, let come to a boil for 1 hour, remove, turn upside-down to 
cool then when cold put away in a cool place. 

Quinces are peeled, cored, and cut into sections, cooked in 
water before canning owing to their being so tough. Use Yl pound 
sugar to Yi pound quinces and also add one quince to every 4 
sweet apples. Use water in which the quinces were boiled to make 
syrup, then put in cooked quinces and raw sweet apples and let 
boil until tender and transparent. Use skins and cores of both 
quinces and apples for quince jelly. 

In canning tomatoes be careful to have heat strike them through 
or they will not keep. In canning peas, corn and beans put in 
cans with a little salt and enough water to cover, put in a kettle 
of cold water and let come to boil for 3 hours. 

Preserves are made with whole small fruits or any fruit cut up, 
also jams. Use about % pound of sugar to every pound of syrup. 
Make syrup first, put enough fruit in to cover top of syrup, heat 
through, remove to large bowl with a skimmer, draining all syrup 
then adding more fruit and soon until all has been cooked. Now 
take syrup boil down 15 minutes, add all the fruit, heat, fill jars 
with fruit and syrup and cover. Jams need not be in air-tight 
cans but can be covered with paraffin. 

In making jellies use three cornered bags with strings to tie- 
in proportion use cup for cup or pound for pound as one cup of 
sugar to one pound of fruit. Cook fruits first with as little water 
as possible, mash, strain and then measure juice and sugar, boil 
gently for 5 minutes, strain into glasses. 

46 



CURRANT JELLY 

(MRS. A. W. MEYER) 

Add 1 cup of water to 4 quarts of currants, after having washed, 
heated and mashed, stir with wooden spoon until soft, strain 
through bag, place on stove, let boil 20 minutes, then add same 
amount of sugar as juice, stir, let simmer 5 minutes, strain into 
glasses. After a day or two's standing melt paraffin, putting a 
tablespoon over each glass. 

By putting together apple, cranberry and rhubarb will make a 
fine jelly. 

Crabapple with raspberry or blackberry is fine. 

Green grapes make fine jelly. 



Fish, Oysters, Etc. 



Fish, an excellent brain food, should not be used unless perfectly 
fresh, cleaned and thoroughly cooked. It should be cleansed as 
soon as it comes from the market, then put on ice until ready for 
use. Never soak as it rains flavor unless frozen, when it should be 
put into ice cold water to thaw or if a salted fish, should be soaked 
over night. 

BAKED FISH 

Secure a nice trout or any white fish, clean and rub a little salt 
within and without, also pepper, make a dressing of a cupful of 
white bread crumbs, chopped parsley, a little butter and paprika, 
put inside of fish, sew up or fasten together with toothpicks, grease 
baking pan, lay in, rub fish with a little melted butter, put in oven, 
bake for 30 minutes or 45 minutes basting often with a little water 
and melted butter and two drops of onion juice, remove, serve on 
hot platter with lemon sauce. 



PLANKED FISH 

Use shad. Grease boiler, put on fish, with skin down, brush over, 
put hear gas to sear, reduce heat or flame, baste often, let cook until 
done, season with salt and pepper, remove to hot platter, serve with 
Maitre d' hotel saiice, garnish with parsley. This fish is planked 
under gas. 

47 



BROILED FISH 

Grease double broiler, brush fish with melted butter, hold over 
hot coals, and when seared on one side turn over, continue until 
fish is white and done — about 8 minutes. Slip off on hot platter, 
pour melted butter over, sprinkle with salt and pepper, garnish 
with lemon and parsley, serve with potato, macaroni, cheese and 
Betsy Ross bread and sliced cucumbers. 

BOILED FISH 

Tie fish in cheese cloth, put in boiling water in which is a little 
salt and a teaspoon of vinegar, cook for 40 minutes if weighing 
about 5 to 7 pounds, serve with Hollandaise sauce and mashed 
potatoes. 

SMALL FISH 

Smelts should be drawn, wiped, dipped in milk and flour, fried 
in deep fat; used as an entree or garnish. 

FRIED FISH 

Salmon, halibut or red snapper can be sliced, salted, peppered, 
dipped in corn meal or few Betsy Ross bread crumbs, moisten with 
milk a few spoons of cream, mix well, put into shell, strew Betsy 
Ross bread crumbs over top and also melted butter over, put in 
oven, let remain just long enough to get hot through and to be a 
nice golden brown color. Serve very hot, garnish with parsley. 

CREAMED CLAMS 

Heat clams in their own liquor, chop fine and to 1 cup of clams, 
add 1 cup of white sauce. Clams can be served same as oysters, 
raw or on the half shell. 

CLAM FRITTERS 

Make a stiff fritter batter, chop and add clams, drop from a 
spoon into hot fat, drain and serve while hot. 

CREAMED SHRIMPS IN PEPPERS 

Soak 6 peppers 1 hour in cold water after removing seed, take 
1 pint of shrimps, 3 tablespoons butter, 1 teaspoon salt, 1 table- 
spoon lemon juice, ^ cup of cream or milk, ^ cup Betsy Ross 
bread crumbs, two eggs (yolks), pinch of cayenne pepper, cut 
shrimps up in little cubes, cook 3 minutes in 2 tablespoons butter, 
salt, cayenne, and lemon juice, add cream or milk and remaining 
butter, remove from fire, add the well beaten eggs, drain peppers, 
fill with the boiled potatoes (jackets on). 

48 



FINNAN HADDIE BROILED 

Skin, brush the fish slightly with oil and broil over a slow fire 
or under a low blaze on a gas stove. 

CREAMED FINNAN HADDIE 

Cut haddie in pieces, remove skin, parboil 15 minutes, drain, 
melt 1 tablespoon butter in a sauce pan, add 1 cup of cream, a 
bay leaf, herbs and mignonette pepper, simmer for a few minutes, 
strain sauce, add 1 tablespoon chopped parsley and 1 teaspoon of 
shredded chives, put haddies in a greased baking dish, cover with 
the sauce, sprinkle with bread crumbs and bits of butter, bake 
until a delicate brown. 

BROILED SARDINES 

Carefully drain sardines, put them in a fine wire broiler, broil 
over a clear coal fire or under a slow blaze of gas burner. Do not 
turn as a steak, but brown on one side then turn and brown on the 
other. Serve on a platter garnished with lemon and parsley. 




FISH PUDDING WITH PARISIENNE POTATOES 



FISH PUDDING 

Use \y<i cups minced boiled halibut or any white fish, add 1 
cup cream, \Yi tablespoons butter, x /± cup fine Betsy Ross bread 
crumbs, 1^ teaspoons salt, 34 teaspoon paprika, Yi teaspoon onion 
juice, 2 eggs, 1 tablespoon lemon juice, 1 teaspoon flour. Put 
butter in sauce pan, let it melt, rub in flour then cream, stir in 
fish, crumbs, eggs and seasoning, butter a mould rather thick, 
have cooked strips of macaroni, place in lengthwise about 3^-mch 
apart in buttered mould, pour in pudding, place buttered paper 
over top, steam 1 hour, when done turn out on hot platter, garnish- 
ed with a' la Parisienne potatoes with white sauce poured over and 
chopped parsley. Serve with cucumber jelly. 

49 



SHELL FISH— CRABS 

Pick meat from claws and soft inside from body, season with 
pepper, salt, butter and fry in bacon fat, garnish with fried strips 
of bacon, served with sauce tartar. 

FISH ROES FRIED 

Wash roes, cook for 10 minutes in boiling salted water, plunge 
in cold water, dry, roll in egg and seasoned Betsy Ross crumbs, 
brown in hot fat. 

SALMON IN MOULDS 

One can salmon, 4 eggs, 4 tablespoons butter, 3^ cup bread 
crumbs, parsley, 34 teaspoon salt, dash pepper, chop fish fine, rub 
butter in until smooth, beat eggs, add Betsy Ross crumbs and 
seasoning with a little chopped parsley, work all well together, put 
into a buttered mould and steam 1 hour. Serve with a sauce. 

SAUCE FOR SALMON 

One cup milk heated to a boil, thicken with 1 tablespoon corn 
starch and 1 of butter rubbed together, also the liquor from the 
salmon, 1 raw egg, 1 teaspoon tomato catsup, pinch of mace, dash 
cayenne, putting egg in last. Can use the sauce for lobster in the 
same way. 

OYSTER SAUSAGES 

One dozen oysters, Y2 pound rump steak, a little sage, pepper 
and salt, chop all fine and roll them in the form of sausages, fry in 
butter. 

FRIED OYSTERS 

Wash and drain 12 large oysters, roll each oyster in cracker 
crumbs which have already been salted and peppered, then dip in 
a well beaten egg, then again in cracker crumbs; be sure to keep 
them apart, drop in hot fat, drain and serve on hot dish. 

OYSTERS A LA PORTLAND 

Secure large oysters, wash and drain, wrap each oyster in a 
thin slice of bacon, fasten with tooth pick, place separately in a 
baking pan, put in oven and let cook just long enough to brown 
bacon. Serve with cold slaw and celery. 

PANNED OYSTERS 

Heat oysters in their own juice, when edges begin to curl and 
oysters are plump, add salt, pepper and butter. Serve on Betsy 
Ross toast. 

50 



Poultry and Game 



Chicken for frying should be cut in eleven pieces. Salt and 
pepper, then flour with salt and pepper in, saute in part butter and 
fat, serve on hot platter with either corn fritters, spinach and 
currant jelly. Stir into frying pan 1 tablespoon flour, 1 cup of 
milk or cream until it thickens, add 1 tablespoon chopped parsley, 
pour in gravy boat, serve with chicken. 

SMOTHERED CHICKEN 

Split young chickens down back, salt, pepper and flour them, 
place in baking pan, put on bits of butter with just enough water to 
prevent burning, place on top, cook 1 hour. About 15 minutes 
before done remove top to brown, basting often, remove chicken, 
make gravy, serve with peas and mashed potatoes. 

CHICKEN EN CASSEROLE 

Take a young chicken, not too small, place whole in a round 
pudding pan, place peas around it then take a vegetable cutter and 
cut potatoes, carrots and turnips, lay them around peas in order 
given, season with plenty of butter, a little salt and pepper and a 
tablespoon of flour, add \ x /i cups of water, let cook slowly for 1 
hour, keeping covered until about 15 minutes before serving, then 
remove cover, brown, serve in same dish. Makes a very pretty 
dish. Do not stir while cooking. 

Chickens can be fricasseed, stewed with dumplings, baked or 
made into a pie. 

Turkeys can be prepared to bake, in the same way as chicken 
and you can use chestnuts, chopped oysters or currants in dressing. 
Serve with cranberry sauce, boiled onions and rice. 

GOOSE 

Scrub a goose with brush to open pores so grease can come out 
freely, stuff with Betsy Ross crumbs and mashed potatoes and 
onion or with apples quartered, steam 30 minutes, dredge with 
flour, salt and pepper, roast until tender, garnish with water cress, 
serve with olives, apple sauce and squash. 

QUAIL ON MUSH (FRIED) 

(PAULINE) 

Split quail down back, salt, pepper, put bits of bacon over, 
put in baking pan, cook until done, serve on fried mush, dip slices 
of mush in egg then in crumbs, fry in lard or part butter and lard, 
put in platter and place quail on, serve. 

51 



DUCK 

Prepare as for goose only in stuffing do not use apples. Corn 
bread crumbs sometimes are used. Cook in sweet milk basting 
often. Fine served with currant jelly, spinach, mustard greens, and 
orange salad. 

Wild ducks should be baked 10 minutes in hot oven and served 
with onions and giblet sauce. 

Quail cut down back, may be roasted, boiled or braized and 
served on toast, bread sauce, etc. 

BIRDS A LA PARISIENNE 

Take any small bird, quail, squabs, partridge, etc., draw and 
wipe. Put in each 1 teaspoonful of chopped olives and 1 teaspoon 
of butter, roast in a very hot oven and serve on large heart shaped 
fried croutons. 

Venison is cooked as beef or mutton. Rabbits are cooked in 
the various ways as chicken. 

CREAMED CHICKEN 

One-third of a pound of chicken, Yl can mushrooms, 34 pound 
sweetbreads, 2^ tablespoons flour, 2 tablespoons butter, V/i 
quarts of cream, cook chicken and sweetbread tender, cut in very 
small pieces, heat cream to boiling point, mix flour and butter 
smoothly, stir boiling cream in flour and butter slowly to prevent 
lumping, season highly with salt, cayenne pepper and grated onion, 
mix all thoroughly with chicken and put in baking dish covered 
with fine Betsy Ross bread crumbs and bits of butter, bake 20 
minutes. 



Meats— Beef, Mutton and Pork 



BEEF 



For a roast of beef the sirloin and tenderloin cuts are considered 
best. While more expensive they are no better than the best cuts 
of a rib roast, the sixth, seventh and eighth ribs being the choicest 
cuts. To roast a beef allow from nine to ten minutes to a pound. 
Heat roasting pan very hot, after having salted and peppered the 
roast thoroughly by rubbing it well in with the hands, place in 
roast for a few moments, then turn the other side, do likewise, 
searing to prevent blood from coming out, now put into a hot 
oven and when the meat begins to brown (about 30 minutes) pour 
in hot water about 3^ cup or more, then baste often until roast is 
done, nice and brown. Send to table on hot platter garnished with 
Yorkshire pudding. Use mashed or baked potatoes, stewed to- 
matoes, radishes, olives, green onions, etc., or lettuce salad. 

52 



FILLET OF BEEF 

The fillet is the underside of the loin of beef. The steaks cut 
from this part are called porterhouse steaks. A fillet of beef is 
rather expensive, costing from 75 cents to $1.00 per pound and 
three pounds will serve from ten to twelve persons. If your butcher 
does not prepare this fillet, have on hands a larding needle and a 
piece of pork, cut pork in strips, put in needle, begin to lard the 
top only, then when done lay in pan with a few pieces of suet or 
pork, salt and pepper, cook 30 minutes, basting with hot water or 
some stock, serve with mushroom sauce. 

LITTLE "FILLETS" OF BEEF 

Cut a fillet in pieces one inch thick, put slices of pork around 
each one, salt, pepper, put in roasting pan, cook 20 minutes or 
put on a broiler, broil until brown, or fry in a very hot pan, garnish 
with fried 'a la Parisenne potatoes or parsley. 

PORTERHOUSE OR SIRLOIN STEAKS 

Do not have too thin, broil, when done put on hot platter, 
season with butter, pepper and salt, garnish with parsley. 

ROUND STEAK 

Cut all ligaments from steak, cut in pieces, beat until tender, 
salt, pepper and dredge with flour, cook or fry in pan of lard and 
butter mixed, when done remove to a hot platter, make gravy by 
adding x /2 tablespoon flour to pan, pour in either milk or cold 
water, about 1 cup, cook for 5 minutes, strain, add salt and pepper, 
serve in gravy boat with steak. 

"MOCK" DUCK 

A round is better. Salt, pepper and spread on a little butter, 
make a stuffing of 1 cup of crumbs, }/l chopped onion, % teaspoon 
of sage, salt, pepper and little butter, lay steak flat on a board, 
put dressing on, roll up, tie or skewer with tooth picks, put in pan, 
cook 1 hour, basting often. 

HAMBURGER OR GROUND STEAK 

The tough pieces of beef can be ground into "hamburger". 
Either make in little balls, salt, pepper and fry or can be made 
into a large flat cake, salt and pepper, put on a broiler, broil for 10 
minutes, turning both sides. 

Another way is to use 2 pounds of hamburger, a slice of Betsy 
Ross bread wet or soaked in milk, one egg, a little butter, salt and 
pepper, work it all together, form a loaf, put in pan, bake for x /l 
hour or longer. 

53 



POT ROAST 

Rump, put in pot with seasoning, let brown for a while, turning 
both sides, then add l}/£ CU P S °f hot water, let cook until tender 
or cook for 45 minutes or 1 hour. Not too done but have rare makes 
it palatable while too much cooking spoils it. 

BOILED BEEF 

Use either brisket or flank, cook slowly in enough water to cover, 
then when nearly done add salt and pepper, can add a few carrots, 
onions and potatoes to the stew and it is very nice cooked this way. 

BRAISED BEEF 

Flank steak, about 5 or 6 pounds, remove skin, dredge with 
flour, salt and pepper, roll; in a pot put }4 pound of salt pork, 
1 onion, stick of celery, and 1 carrot cut all fine, add three cloves, 
3 peppercorns, place steak upon them, cook 20 minutes turning, 
then add a cup of water or stock, cover, cook very slowly 3 or 4 
hours, turning often, adding more water if necessary. When done 
strain gravy, season, pour a little over meat and put rest in gravy 
boat. 

TO CORN BEEF 

Dissolve 2 large cups of coarse salt in cold water, pour Y% cup 
boiling water on a few kernels of saltpetre and add to the brine. 
Place a seven-pound piece of beef in an earthen jar and pour the 
mixture over it. Set away in a cool place and use in seven days. 
Can be served cold or can cook with cabbage. 

CORNED BEEF HASH 

It is especially nice used for hash. Use 1 cup corned beef, 1 
cup potato, Yi cup water, 1 teaspoon butter, 1 saltspoon salt, Y, 
saltspoon paprika, chop meat very fine, chop potato not as fine as 
meat, mix in frying pan, put butter, add hash, pour the water over, 
season; when brown on bottom fold like omelette, loosen from bot- 
tom of pan, turn out on platter, garnish with parsley, serve with 
tomato sauce. 

HOUGH JELLY 

(miss burfford) 

Place a shin of beef into a kettle with two quarts cold water, 
simmer 3 or 4 hours or until liquor has reduced to about a quart, 
take out meat, chop fine, put it into the liquor with salt, pepper, 
teaspoon thyme, summer savory, parsley, a cup of vinegar, a 
teaspoon mixed spices, Yi teaspoon of gelatine, turn into a mould. 
When cold it will be stiff. A good relish. 

54 



COLD ROAST BEEF 

Cold beef can be made into a pie, hash, croquettes, meat balls 
omitting potatoes. Can serve the hash on toast or can chop the 
beef very fine, season, stir into fritter batter, fry in hot fat. Fine 
for breakfast. 

LAMB 

Lamb one year old is good in spring and summer. A saddle 
or two hind quarters, used together, if split down back and divided 
into hind and fore quarter. 

ROAST LAMB 

If hind quarter, salt, pepper, put in pan, with a little water, 
basting often, cook until done. If quarter, make a stuffing, fill an 
inserted pocket, cook in oven until brown, serve with new potatoes, 
peas and mint sauce. When cold serve with mint jelly. 

MUTTON 

Leg or forequarter, salt, pepper, put in hot oven for 20 minutes, 
then add 1 cup of water into which has been added 1 tablespoon 
of vinegar, allowing 15 minutes to the pound, baste frequently. 

BOILED MUTTON 

Place leg of mutton in kettle with just enough water to cover, 
boil rapidly 15 minutes, then put back on stove to simmer until 
done, adding 1 teaspoon of salt to water, 1 onion and a carrot. 
Serve with caper sauce, using the broth to make sauce. 

MUTTON CHOPS 

English loin chops one inch thick made round and skewered. 
French chops, rib meat scraped from bone and trimmed. German 
chops, meat is scraped from bone which is cut very short, a slit in 
the end of meat, and then slipped over bone. 

BROILED CHOPS 

Mutton chops can be broiled over hot coals or under gas. When 
done salt and pepper and send to table on a "chop" plate, with 
one overlapping the other, having peas in center. 

MUTTON STEW 

The shoulder part can be cut in two-inch pieces cooked for one 
hour or until tender, season with salt, pepper, a little curry powder, 
1 onion, carrot, turnips and potatoes, or can be stewed omitting 
vegetables using dumplings instead. 

55 



DUMPLINGS 

One-half cup flour, 2 teaspoons baking powder, Y2 teaspoon 
salt, yolk of 1 egg }/% CU P milk or enough to make a stiff batter, 
drop off of spoon into stew, cook from 10 to 20 minutes. When 
done serve around the platter. 

VEAL 

Veal is not very nutritious and must be thoroughly cooked to 
avoid indigestion. It can be roasted, stewed, fried or broiled. 



ROAST VEAL 

The shoulder and breast of veal are best for roasting. Remove 
the shoulder bone, make a stuffing, fill in vacancy, cook until tender, 
serve with cold slaw or cucumbers, beans, tomatoes or cauliflower. 



VEAL CUTLETS 

Salt and pepper veal cutlets, beat up one egg, add a tablespoon 
of water, dip cutlets in, then bread crumbs, fry in hot fat of part 
butter and drippings slowly to a nice brown, then serve on hot 
platter with tomato sauce. 

VEAL AND HAM PIE 

Cook one-fourth pound of lean ham, and \ x /i pounds of veal to- 
gether until done, save liquor, cut meat into cubes. Line a pan 
with a rich crust, put in a layer of ham and a layer of veal and so 
on until filled, sprinkle over a little salt, pepper, bits of butter, 
1 tablespoon of flour, a little thyme, pour over it the liquor, put on 
crust, bake for one hour and serve in same pan. 

VEAL BIRDS 

Take slices of the round cut in pieces, make a stuffing of Betsy 
Ross bread crumbs, onions, little sage, roll stuffing in meat, secure 
with skewers, bake slowly one hour, serve with a nice gravy. 

VEAL LOAF 

One and one-half pounds of veal, \i pound salt pork, x /i pound 
fresh pork, 4 crackers, 2 eggs 1 teaspoon salt, 1 salt spoon paprika, 
Yl onion. Roll crackers fine, chop veal (salt pork and fresh pork 
very fine together), add beaten eggs, chopped onion, salt, pepper 
and Yl of crackers, shape into a roll, roll in egg and cracker crumbs, 
put in pan with 2 tablespoons butter and 1 cup water, bake one 
hour basting frequently, serve cold. 

56 



CALVES LIVER AND BACON 

Cut liver very thin, dredge in flour, pepper and a little salt, 
cook strips of bacon rather crisp, remove bacon from frying pan. 
add liver to the hot fat, cook until a delicate brown, place on a hot 
platter with a piece of bacon on each piece of liver, put 1 tablespoon 
of flour into frying pan, stir until brown, add 1 cup cold water, 
let cook until the right consistency, strain, pour in gravy boat 
after seasoning with a little butter, pepper and salt, serve with the 
liver and bacon. 

SWEETBREADS PREPARED 

Put in cold water, remove pipes and membranes, cook in salted 
boiling water containing 1 teaspoon lemon juice 20 minutes, remove, 
place in cold water to harden. 



SWEETBREADS FRIED 

Dip them in egg, then in Betsy Ross crumbs, fry in part butter 
and fat to a nice brown. 



SWEETBREADS CROQUETTS 

Use 1 egg, 1 tablespoon milk, a little salt, x /i teaspoon chopped 
parsley, 1 cup chopped sweetbreads, x /i teaspoon paprika, 2 table- 
spoons cooked rice, mix all together, shape in rounds, dip in egg 
and crumbs, cook in hot fat as doughnuts, drain, serve on hot 
platter with peas as a garnish. 



SWEETBREADS CREAMED 

Cut sweetbreads into small pieces, to 1 cup of sweetbreads add 
1 cup mushrooms, 34 teaspoon salt, 34 teaspoon paprika and \Yi 
cups of cream sauce, put into individual dishes or cups, sprinkle 
over with buttered Betsy Ross crumbs, place in oven and brown 
for 10 minutes. Brains can be prepared in the same way as sweet- 
breads. 

ROAST PORK 

If loin, chop between each bone, then put in salt, pepper and a 
little sage, put in a kettle to parboil, with enough water to cover 
for 20 minutes, then remove, put into baking pan, lard it, not butter, 
dredge with flour, pour over part of liquor, put in oven, allowing 
20 minutes to the pound, cook until a nice brown, basting with 
remainder of liquor; when done, remove, pour off fat, add 1 tea- 
spoon butter and 1 tablespoon water, cook for two minutes, pour 
sauce into boat, serve pork and gravy with apple sauce. 

Fine, tastes like chicken. 

57 



PORK CHOPS 

Can be grilled by dipping chops into boiling water for two 
minutes, wipe dry, add salt and pepper, fry in a hot pan, which 
contains a little butter. 

PORK TENDERS 

"Tenders" can be cut in 3^2-inch rounds flattened out with a 
potato masher, peppered and salted, dip in flour, fry to a nice brown, 
until done. Can be also broiled. 

BREAKFAST BACON 

Take thin slices of bacon, cut off rind, drop into hot fat (like 
doughnuts), cook until dry and brown, and crisp. 

HAM FRIED 

Cut ham very thin, then broil or fry until edges are brown and 
the lean part heated through, remove to a platter, garnish with 
fried eggs. 

BOILED HAM 

Place a large ham in a kettle of warm water, add x /i cup sugar, 
1 bay leaf, 3 peppercorns, 1 clove, 1 beer glass of ale or beer or 2 
heaping tablespoons brandy, cook 3 hours, remove, peel off skin, 
stick about 10 or 12 cloves in, sprinkle over with sugar and a few 
Betsy Ross bread crumbs, put in oven to brown, baste with a 
little vinegar. 

BAKED HAM IN "CASE" 

(miss J. NORMAN) 

Take a large ham, cut off rind, rub over with a little cayenne 
pepper, make a case large enough to cover of flour and water, 
wrap around ham, put in oven, let bake slowly allowing 30 minutes 
to the pound, when done remove case and ham will be a beautiful 
brown, notwithstanding the "case" will be burned black. 

HAM LOAF 

Bits of cooked ham ground, add ground green pepper, 2 eggs, 
1 cup milk, \ x /i cups Betsy Ross bread crumbs, mould all in a loaf, 
putting in lengthwise, 2 hard boiled eggs in center, bake 30 minutes. 
When done each slice should have a center of hard boiled egg. Very 
pretty. 

HAM SOUFFLE 

One and one-half cups ground ham (cooked), \ x /i tablespoons 
of gelatine dissolved in 1 cup ham juice after grease has been re- 
moved, mix all together, when it begins to harden add 1 cup 
whipped cream, place in molds to harden. Nice for luncheons. 

58 



CRUMPY PORK 

Slice thin some salt pork, remove rind, parboil in a little water 
for three or four minutes, pour off water, fry to a nice brown. 
Should be nice and crisp. Can serve with toast and baked potatoes. 



Pastry, Pies and Puddings 



PASTE FOR ONE PIE 

One cup of flour, J4 teaspoon salt, \^ cup of lard, about 3 table- 
spoons ice water, rub lard, flour and salt together, add ice water, 
knead as little as possible. 

PUFF PASTE 

One pound flour, % pound of butter and lard mixed, 1 egg, mix 
flour with a lump of butter size of an egg to a very stiff paste with 
ice water, divide the remaining butter into six equal parts, roll 
the paste and spread on one part of butter dredging it with flour,, 
repeat until all the butter is rolled in. Place away in a cold place,, 
will keep a very long time. 

PIES 

In making pastry "practice will make perfect." It should be 
touched as lightly as possible, made in a cool place and with hands 
perfectly cool; if possible use a marble slab instead of pastry board. 
All vessels or pie plates should be well floured, all pudding dishes 
or moulds should be well buttered. 

APPLE PIE 

Allow 4 or 5 large apples or 7 small ones to a pie, peel and slice 
very thin, place in a deep pie plate lined with a short crust, sprinkle 
over with 1 cup sugar, % cup nutmeg, 1 teaspoon butter, 1 table- 
spoon flour, }/2 cup water, put on top crust, take your fingers and 
wet edges with water, bake in a slow oven for 40 minutes, serve 
with cheese. 

CHOCOLATE PIE 

Two eggs (yolks) beaten light, 4 tablespoons of Walter Baker's 
chocolate, 2 tablespoons cornstarch. 7^2 even tablespoons sugar, 
1 pint of milk, a little vanilla, put all in a double boiler, cook until 
thick, line pan with a short crust, put crust in oven to bake and 
when done pour in the chocolate filling. Have ready the beaten 
whites, with the addition of a little sugar and vanilla, pour or spread 
over pie, place in a quick oven to brown. Very nice. 

59 



CREAM PIE 

Pour 1 cup of cream on % CU P of sugar, beat whites of two eggs 
very stiff, add to cream and beat well, line a pie plate with crust, 
pour in cream mixture, grate nutmeg over top, place in oven, bake 
slowly for 30 minutes. 

LEMON PIE 

One lemon rind and juice, 1 tablespoon cornstarch, yolks of two 
eggs, butter size of an egg, 4 heaping tablespoons of sugar, 1 cup 
of hot water, cook in a double boiler, have ready the baked crust, 
pour in custard, putting on merringue, whites of two eggs beaten 
stiff, add 2 tablespoons sugar place in oven to brown. One pie. 

PUMPKIN PIE 

One can pumpkin, 5 eggs, x /i cup butter, 1 quart milk, 2 cups 
sugar, pinch of salt, 2 tablespoons flour, 1 teaspoon cinnamon, Yl 
teaspoon cloves, Yl teaspoon nutmeg, 1 saltspoon ginger, pour in 
crust, cook from 20 to 30 minutes. This makes three pies. 

CHARLOTTE RUSSE 

One tablespoon Knox's gelatine soaked 20 minutes in Yl cup of 
milk, dissolve over hot water, get hike warm, whip 1 pint of cream, 
add Yl CU P powdered sugar, flavoring to taste, beat whites of 2 
eggs with a pinch of salt to a stiff froth, add eggs and gelatine, 
strain gelatine through a cloth or fine sieve into cream, beat all 
together with an egg beater line mould with stale cake, pour in 
Russe, let stand in a very cold place 2 hours. 

CHARLOTTE RUSSE CUSTARD 

Dissolve 1 tablespoon Knox's gelatine in Yl cup of water for 
10 minutes, put on stove, 1 cup granulated sugar in 1 cup milk, 
dissolve, remove from fire, stir in 1 beaten egg, put back, cook 
until thickens, do not boil, let cool, add flavoring, beat it all into 
1 pint of whipped cream, line a mould with lady fingers, pour in 
custard, stand away in a cool place for 13^ hours. 



APPLE PUDDING 

Peel and quarter enough apples to fill a pudding dish, add 1 
cup sugar, bits of butter over, add 1 cup of cold water, cover dish, 
place in oven, let cook from \ to \ x /i hours. Now make a cake 
batter of Yl cup sugar, 1 tablespoon butter, Yl cup milk, 1 cup 
flour. 1 teaspoon baking powder, 1 egg and a little vanilla, make a 
soft batter, pour over apples, bake from 10 minutes to 20 minutes. 
Serve with a hard sauce. 

60 



CODDLED APPLES 

Core and peel 6 apples, place in a baking dish, fill with sugar, 
bits of butter and cinnamon, add 1 cup of water, cover and cook 
Yl hour, remove cover to brown for another half hour, serve with 
a custard sauce. 

COTTAGE PUDDING 

One and one-half tablespoons butter, Yl scant cup sugar, 1 egg, 
34 cup milk, % cup flour, Yl teaspoon baking powder, Yl teaspoon 
vanilla, mix, put in one round layer tin, when cold split, putting 
on a layer of jelly on the bottom half, then use Yl pint of whipped 
cream on top of jelly part, then put the other half over, cover or 
sprinkle the top with powdered sugar, send to table on a bed of 
geraniums. 

BATTER PUDDING 

One and one-half cups flour, 1 teaspoon baking powder or Y 
teaspoon soda and 1 teaspoon cream tartar, 1 teaspoon salt, 1 
tablespoon butter, 2 eggs, 1 pint milk, mix all together until smooth, 
butter a mould, steam 1 hour, serve with cream sauce. 

CHERRY PUDDING 

One pint flour, 1 cup milk, butter size of an egg, 2 eggs, Yl cup 
sugar, 2 teaspoons baking powder or 1 teaspoon soda and 2 tea- 
spoons cream tartar, 1 salt spoon salt, 1 pint cherries (stoned). 
Boil one hour, serve with wine sauce. 

SUET PUDDING 

One cup chopped saet, 1 cup raisins, Y cup currants, 1 cup 
sweet milk, 1 cup molasses, Yl teaspoon salt, Yl cup sugar, 1 tea- 
spoon ground cinnamon, 1 teaspoon nutmeg, Yl teaspoon cloves, 
Yl teaspoon allspice, 2 eggs and 1 teaspoon soda, mix all together 
with enough flour to make a stiff batter, put in moulds, steam from 
2 to 3 hours, serve with lemon sauce or brandy sauce. 

NOODLE PUDDING 

Use pudding dish, fill with a layer of noodles and a layer of 
sliced apples, sugar, nutmeg and bits of butter so on until dish is 
nearly full, add 1 cup of water, cover top with a nice short crust, 
bake slowly in a moderate oven for 1 hour, serve with every day 
sauce. 

APPLE ROLLY POLLY 

Use 1 cup of biscuit dough, roll very thin on mixing board, 
spread on dough a layer of chopped apples (about 4), a little cin- 
namon, bits of butter, now roll into the shape of a jelly roll, put in 
pan, bake 20 minutes, serve with cream or foamy sauce. _ 

61 



FIG PUDDING 

One pound flour, 2 ounces bread crumbs, 2 ounces finely chopped 
suet, 2 ounces sugar, 1 egg, Y pound figs cut in slices, flavor with 
nutmeg, mix all with IY cups milk, steam 2 hours. 

RICE PUDDING 

Have on fire 1 cup cooked rice, stir in 1 teaspoon butter, Yi 
cup sugar, yolks 2 eggs, pinch salt, a little nutmeg, and \Yi cups 
milk, butter a pudding dish, pour in pudding, putting bits of jelly 
on top, beat whites with 3 tablespoons sugar, pour over, set in 
oven to brown, fine served in dish. 



Creams, Jellies and Fancy Desserts 



BAVARIAN CREAM 

One quart milk, 1 cup sugar, Yi box gelatine, 3 eggs, Yi teaspoon 
vanilla, pinch of salt, put milk and gelatine in double boiler, when 
dissolved add yolks and sugar, let it come to a boil or until thick, 
remove, when cool add beaten whites, vanilla, pour into mould, set 
away in a cold place, serve with sweet cream if preferred. 

RASPBERRY BAVARIAN CREAM 

Soak Yz. box gelatine in Yi CU P c °ld water for Yi hour, when set 
over boiling water until dissolved add 6 tablespoons sugar and 1 
pint of raspberry juice, strain into a tin pan, set on ice, stir until 
thick, then add 1 pint of whipped cream, mix all well, pour in mould, 
place in a cold spot to harden. 

PRUNE SOUFFLE 

One-fourth pound prunes, 4 tablespoons powdered sugar, 4 
eggs (whites), Yi teaspoon vanilla, rub cooked prunes through 
collander, add sugar and vanilla, beat whites very stiff, add care- 
fully to prunes, bake 20 minutes in pudding dish, serve at once 
with a sauce made of 4 yolks beaten together, with 2 tablespoons 
sugar, Yl teaspoon cornstarch, stirred into 1 pint of boiling milk 
containing Yl stick of cinnamon. 

TOMATO SOUFFLE OR CUSTARD 

One pint tomatoes, 1 pint milk, 4 eggs, 1 cup sugar, 1 tablespoon 
flour, pinch salt. Strain 1 pint stewed tomatoes through sieve, 
add 4 beaten eggs, milk, sugar, flour and salt, bake in small cups. 

62 • 



PRUNE PUDDING 

One-half box gelatine, Yl CU P c °ld water, Yl quart prunes, 1 
cup sugar, 1 cup prune juice, Yl teaspoon vanilla, soak gelatine in 
cold water, dissolve in 1 cup hot prune juice, add sugar, vanilla, 
set away to harden. When it begins to harden have ready a mould, 
put in a layer of jelly then a few cut prunes, a layer of jelly and so 
on until mold is full, set away in a cool place, serve on a dish gar- 
nished with whipped cream. 

CHOCOLATE PUDDING 

One and one-half pints milk, Yl CU P sugar, 4 eggs (whites), 
pinch salt, 2 tablespoons corn starch, 2 sections chocolate, put in 
double boiler 1 pint milk, sugar and salt, let come to the boiling 
point, then dissolve 2 scant tablespoons corn starch into Yl pint 
milk, and stir in the mixture until it thickens, beat whites very 
light, add to mixture, take out Y of pudding, dissolve 2 sections 
chocolate in a little milk, stir into the remaining pudding, let boil, 
put chocolate part in mold first, then white, then chocolate and so on 
until all is used, when cold serve with whipped cream. 

GRAPE CREAM 

One quart grape juice, 2 lemons, 1 pint cream, 1 cup sugar. 
Into 1 quart of grape juice add grated rind of 1 and juice of 2 lemons 
and sugar, scald cream whip into grape juice mixture after it has 
been frozen to a mush, turn crank until all is smooth, let stand 3 
hours packed in salt and ice, serve in glass cups with a bunch of 
crystalized grapes at one side. 

FROZEN PLUM PUDDING 

A rich sweet chocolate cream is first made while hot, add plenty 
of cinnamon, cloves and nutmeg, cool, place where it will be half 
frozen, then add 1 cup chopped raisins, Yl cup currants, YL cup 
citron or orange peel and a small glass of brandy or wine, stirred 
well. The whole must stand two hours to ripen and is served in a 
bed of whipped cream. 

SCOTCH CREAM 

One teaspoon gelatine, 1 cup cream, Yl CU P sugar, 3 tablespoons 
cold water, \Y teaspoons vanilla, 1 pint whipping cream. Soak 
gelatine about an hour in 3 tablespoons cold water. Place 1 cup 
of cream and Yl cup of sugar on stove to heat, beat 1 pint whipping 
cream to a stiff froth, as soon as the cream and sugar boils add 
gelatine, stir until dissolved, strain through a cloth, set to cool, 
then add vanilla when all is very cold, pour into whipping cream, 
mix quickly and thoroughly, then pour into mold or small glasses, 
place on ice. 

63 



"PAULINE'S FAVORITE" PUDDING 

One dozen lady fingers, 1 cup mashed peaches, 1 quart ice cream, 
1 wine glass sherry. Line a melon mold with the lady fingers 
after they have been dipped x /2 way in sherry wine, press against 
fingers in mold the peaches, leaving the center for the quart of 
ice cream, put on cover, set away in packed ice to ripen for 3 
hours, serve in a bed of Nasturtiums or Holly leaves. 




PAULINE'S "FAVORITE" 



VIOLET JELLY 

Two cups sugar, 1 pint water, 1 handful fresh violets, x /l DOX 
gelatine, 3^ cup cold water, violet extract, orange and lemon juice. 
Put the sugar and water in a sauce pan over the fire, stir until it is 
dissolved and boil 10 minutes, remove from fire, stir in 1 handful of 
violet blossoms taking care to remove their stalks, cover the sauce- 
pan, put back on stove where the syrup will remain heated for 
about }/i hour, cover ]/> DOX gelatine with ]/> cup of cold water, 
add to syrup, strain, flavor with a few drops of orange and lemon 
juice and a few drops of violet extract, pour in mold and set away 
to harden. 

COFFEE JELLY 

One box gelatine, l /2 cup cold water, % CU P sugar, 1 cup water, 
13^ cups coffee, 1 teaspoon vanilla. Soak gelatine in ^2 CU P c °ld 
water, put sugar and 1 cup water over fire, stir until it boils and 
sugar is entirely melted, pour over gelatine, stir until it is all dis- 
solved, add 13^ cups of strong, clear coffee and strain, stir in 1 
teaspoon vanilla, pour into a wetted mold, serve with cream. 

64 



STRAWBERRY MOLD 

One dozen lady fingers, 1 cup milk, 4 eggs (yolks), 34 DOX 
gelatine, 1 teaspoon vanilla, J4 cup cream, 34 cup cold water, 3 
tablespoons sugar, 2 boxes strawberries. Line a melon mold with 
lady fingers, beat yolks of 4 eggs with 3 tablespoons of sugar, add 
1 cup milk, put on stove in double boiler, let cook until thickens, 
remove, add gelatine which has been soaked in 34 cup cold water, 
stir until gelatine is dissolved, strain and cool, then add 34 cup 
cream and 1 teaspoon vanilla, cover the bottom with strawberries, 
pour carefully over them a few spoonfuls of the custard, when this 
is stiffened fill the mold with berries and pour over them the re- 
mainder of the custard, set in a cool place to stiffen. 



Ices, Punches and Ice Creams 



ROMAN PUNCH 

Peel the rind thinly from 1 orange and 3 lemons and put|in a 
pan with 1}4 pounds of sugar and 1 pint of water, heat slowly, 
boil 5 minutes, cool, add 1 pint cold water and the strained juice 
of the orange and lemons, then freeze, when very hard work in 
gradually 3^2 pint Jamaica rum, 4 tablespoons maraschino, and 1 
teaspoon vanilla, pack and stand away for at least 2 hours, serve in 
glasses. 

ITALIAN PUNCH * 

Put on stove in a sauce pan 1 cup of water and 2 cups sugar, 
stirring until sugar is dissolved, cool, add 3^2 cup of lemon juice, 
1 cup orange juice and 1 quart of peach pulp, prepared by rubbing 
canned peaches through a fine sieve and adding sufficient of syrup 
in can to thin, freeze, serve in glasses. 

FRUIT PUNCH NO. 1 

Dissolve 1 pound sugar in 3 pounds of hot water, stirring until 
it becomes a clear syrup, when cold add 1 cup orange juice, 1 cup 
lemon juice and 1^ cups of any red syrup, namely from preserved 
strawberries, cherries or raspberries, ice and drop into the punch 
bowl 34 cupful of fresh or preserved pineapple cut in dice and 3^ 
cupful of the preserved fruits. 

FRUIT PUNCH NO. 2 

Put 1 cup of water and \ x /i cups sugar over fire and stir until 
dissolved, cook and add 3^2 cup of lemon juice, 1 cup orange juice, 
Yi cup pineapple syrup (from the preserved fruit), x /i cup of apricot 
syrup and 1 teaspoon orange-flower water. 

65 



GRAPE FRUIT PUNCH 

Put 1 cup water and 1 cup sugar over fire and stir until a syrup, 
when cool add 1 pint of grape fruit juice and juice of 1 lemon, put 
in freezer, when nearly frozen add an icing made of 1 cup sugar, 
4 tablespoons of water and whites of 2 eggs (taking care to beat 
icing until cold). It will be smooth when done. Serve in glasses. 

REISLING PUNCH 

One quart bottle Reisling, add 2 tablespoons powdered sugar, 
3^2 lemon sliced fine, 2 oranges sliced fine, add a few slices of pine- 
apple, put in punch bowl with a piece of ice. 

CLARET PUNCH (FOR ONE GLASS) 

One and one-half tablespoons powdered sugar, 2 thin slices of 
lemon, 3 thin slices of orange, fill glass with shaved ice, pour in 
claret until glass is full, shake well and serve with straws. 

CHAMPAGNE PUNCH 

Put in punch bowl 1 pint of champagne, 2 ounces sugar, % 
of an orange sliced thin, juice of % of a lemon, 2 slices pineapple, 
% glass raspberry syrup, a small piece of ice, serve in champagne 
goblets. 

GIN PUNCH (FOR ONE GLASS) 

One and one-half tablespoons sugar, 1 pony mineral water to 
dissolve sugar, 1 tablespoon raspberry syrup, juice of }/i lemon, 
1 slice of orange, 1 slice of pineapple, \ x /i glasses gin, fill glass (bar) 
with fine ice, serve with straws. 

CURRANT ICE 

Boil 1 quart water and 1 pound sugar until reduced to a pint, 
skim, take off fire, cool, add 1 pint currant juice, when partly 
frozen stir in the whites of 4 eggs, then freeze again. 

LEMON SHERBET 

Soak 1 teaspoon gelatine in 34 cup cold water, dissolve with 34 
cup boiling water, add juice of 6 lemons, 1 pint sugar and T^Yl cups 
water, strain and freeze. 

ORANGE WATER ICE 

Rub sugar on the peel of two oranges and 1 lemon, squeeze and 
strain the juice of the lemon and 6 oranges, dissolve the flavored 
sugar, with a little hot water and mix with Y /i P mt of syrup; if 
too sweet add a little more water, strain and freeze as lemon water 
ice. 

66 



LEMON WATER ICE 

One-half box gelatine, dissolved in 1 pint cold water, juice of 
8 lemons, mix with 1% pounds white sugar, then pour 1 quart 
hot water on the sugar and lemons, pour \Yi pints boiling water 
over the gelatine, when quite dissolved add to the rest of ingredients, 
strain, set away to cool, when cold whip 15 minutes and freeze. 

NEAPOLITAN ICE CREAM 

Scald 1 pint milk in a double boiler, beat together until very 
light the yolks of 10 eggs and 3^2 pound of sugar, stir into the hot 
milk, return to the double boiler and stir until mixture is thick 
enough to mask the spoon, remove from fire, add 1 pint of cream, 
when cold add 1 tablespoon vanilla and freeze. 

PISTACHIO ICE CREAM 

Cover with boiling water 2 ounces of pistachio nuts, let stand a 
few minutes, drain, cover with cold water, remove skins, rub dry 
in a towel, chop very fine and pound to a paste, scald 1 pint of milk 
in double boiler, beat together yolks of 5 eggs and 1 cup sugar, 
stir into scalded milk, let cook until thick like custard, remove 
from fire, strain, add 1 pint cream, when cold add nuts and 1 table- 
spoon pistachio flavoring or 1 tablespoon orange flower water, 
and a few drops extract bitter almond ; can use a few drops of green 
coloring; freeze. 

SYLLABUB NO. 1 

Add y% cup powdered sugar to 1 pint thick cream, whip dry 
and stiff, beat whites of two eggs to a stiff froth, with Yi cup sugar, 
mix whipped cream and eggs together, flavor with x /i teaspoon 
vanilla and 34 CU P white wine, serve immediately in glasses. 

SYLLABUB NO. 2 (ENGLISH) 

Cut the thin yellow rind from a lemon, soak in a pint of sherry 
or madeira all night, in the morning add 3 tablespoons brandy, 
3 cups rich thick cream beaten to a froth, with the white of one egg, 
and juice of 1 lemon, sweeten to taste, beat the mixture to a stiff 
froth, as it rises place it in glasses, pile as high as possible, set in a 
cool place until wanted. 

GRAPE ICE 

Make a syrup with 1^ pounds of sugar and 1 pint of water, 
bring to the boiling point, pour it while hot over 4 pounds ripe 
grapes which have been mashed to a pulp, let stand covered for 1 
hour, then rub through a sieve, add juice of 1 lemon, freeze, when 
partly frozen add the whites of two eggs beaten to a meringue, 
with 2 tablespoons powdered sugar, mix in well, finish freezing, 
then pack and set away for at least 2 hours. 

67 



PHILADELPHIA ICE CREAM 

Two quarts cream, 1 pint milk, 2 cups sugar, 2 tablespoons 
vanilla extract, scald cream, melt sugar in it, add milk and flavoring, 
freeze. 

ALASKA BAKE OR BAKED ICE CREAM 

Use a flat round sponge cake for base, a circular mold of very 
hard frozen ice cream, place on base a meringue of 3 whites of eggs 
beaten very dry, flavored and sweetened, place over base with ice 
cream, set under a strong flame in gas oven for two minutes to 
brown. 

PLAIN ICE CREAM 

One pint milk, 1 cup sugar, 1 tablespoon cornstarch, flour, or 
gelatine (soaked), 1 saltspoon salt, 1 pint or 1 quart cream with 
Y2 cup sugar, 1 tablespoon flavoring, scald milk, add sugar, flour 
wet in a little cold milk (or gelatine) and salt, then add beaten eggs, 
beat all together, turn milk over, place in double boiler, stir until 
smooth, when cool add cream with flavoring and sugar to make 
quite sweet. Can add 1 pint macaroons dried and pounded or 6 
bananas mashed with a little lemon or peaches or pulps of baked 
apples mashed. Strong coffee or melted chocolate will improve this 
cream and can have many varieties. 



TUTTI FRUITTI 

Can use either Philadelphia ice cream or plain ice cream recipes, 
adding 2 tablespoons madeira wine or maraschino. When partly 
frozen add 1 pound of candied fruit or strained preserves. 



JUNKET ICE CREAM 

Dissolve 1 junket in 2 tablespoons cold water, heat 1 quart 
milk, add 1 cup sugar, 1 cup maple syrup or \ x /i teaspoons mapleine, 
pinch salt, 1 tablespoon vanilla. \ x /i cups cream, add junket, let 
stand until set, put in freezer, freeze as ice cream. 



MAPLE MOUSSE 

Two cups sugar wet with 8 tablespoons milk, add beaten whites 
of 6 eggs, 1 quart whipping cream, pack in ice and salt 3 hours, 
marshmallow pudding, 1 tablespoon gelatine, dissolved in a little 
hot water, when cool, add beaten whites of 4 eggs, with 1 cup sugar, 
little vanilla, beat until thick, then add 34 can chopped pineapple, 
1 pound candied cherries, x /i CU P chopped and blanched almonds, 
and 1 dozen chopped marshmallows, set away to harden, serve with 
whipped cream. 

68 



PRUNE SHERBET 

Prune souffle need not be baked but can be served in sherbet 
glasses as a prune sherbet. 

PINEAPPLE SNOW 

One cup pineapple cut in bits, 1 cup juice, % cup sugar, x /i pint 
whipped cream, 1 tablespoon gelatine, dissolved in cold water, 
cook all (except cream) 2 minutes on stove, let cool, when thick 
add cream, turn in mold, serve. Delicious. 



Salads and Salad Dressings 



"Fate can not harm me — I have dined today." 

Among the luxuries of our bill of fares, there is not one that is 
more appreciated by everyone than a well made salad. There is no 
department of cooking that demands clearer judgment in making 
and serving than this same salad. All salads should be served cold 
but long standing injures them. 

From experience I use seven different salad dressings and find 
them very valuable when used in their order given. 

MAYONNAISE 

Four eggs, 1 pint oil, 2 tablespoons vinegar, 1 tablespoon 
lemon juice, 1 teaspoon salt, Y2 teaspoon mustard, Yi teaspoon 
paprika, speck cayenne. Use yolk of 1 hard boiled egg, press 
through a fine sieve, add mustard, mix well, then add yolks of 2 
raw eggs, add oil in small quantity, stir or beat with egg beater, 
then add the other yolk, then rest of oil, beating or stirring all the 
while, then add vinegar, salt, lemon juice, paprika and cayenne, 
beat until stiff, can be made in 10 minutes, set away on ice; can use 
a little whip cream to make it light. 

FRENCH DRESSING 

One-half cup oil, 3 tablespoons vinegar, 1 teaspoon salt, 1 
teaspoon pepper, drop tabasco sauce, few drops Worcestershire, 
pinch of mustard, place salt, mustard, pepper, tabasco, in bowl, 
rub well together, add oil, rub until salt is dissolved, add vinegar, 
then Worcestershire, put away to keep cool. 

COMBINATION SALAD 

Lettuce and radishes, onion, celery, cucumber, all cut in small 
pieces, served on lettuce leaf with French dressing. 

69 



COOKED SALAD DRESSING 

Two eggs (yolks), 1 pint vinegar, Yi teaspoon mustard, 2 table- 
spoons sugar, 1 heaping teaspoon flour, x /± cup butter. Place in 
saucepan vinegar and butter over fire until near boiling, then add 
to it the yolks, flour, sugar and mustard all beaten to a paste, let 
come to boil for 2 minutes, remove, set away to cool, when cold thin 
out with a little cream or milk, add 1 saltspoon salt, pinch of pepper. 

CREAM SALAD DRESSING 

One tablespoon butter, 1 cup milk, 2 tablespoons flour, 4 table- 
spoons vinegar, Y 2 cup cream, 4 tablespoons of lemon juice, melt 
butter, add flour, cook together, add milk and stir until thickened, 
add gradually the vinegar or lemon juice, when cold stir in the 
cream. 

FRENCH DRESSING (WITH LEMON) 

Four tablespoons oil, 1 saltspoon mustard, Y teaspoon paprika, 
1 teaspoon salt, pinch cayenne, 2 tablespoons lemon juice, rub 
mustard, salt, paprika, cayenne and oil together until smooth or 
until salt is dissolved, then add lemon juice. Meat salads are used 
for luncheons or where the menu is light; vegetables or fruit for 
dinner. 

VEGETABLE SALADS 

Potato, asparagus, celery, string beans, cauliflower, cooked 
navy beans, cabbage and beets, served on lettuce leaf with cooked 
salad dressing. 

FRUIT SALADS 

Oranges, bananas, grape fruit, pineapple, cherries, grapes or 
cantaloupe, served with French dressing or use sweet sauce. 

SWEET SAUCE FOR FRUIT SALAD 

One-half cup sugar, J4 cup fruit juice or water, 1 tablespoon 
lemon juice, cook until threads, add 2 tablespoons sherry wine. 

FRUIT SALAD 

One-half can shredded pineapple, 2 oranges, 2 bananas, 1 cup 
cherries, Y cup grapes, use Y2 pint sweet sauce over salad, serve 
very cold in sherbet cups. 

CANTALOUPE SALAD 

Cut small cantaloupes in halves, remove seeds, cut the can- 
taloupe carefully from the rind into cubes, place on ice, with salad 
dressing, serve in cantaloupe rinds. 

70 



GRAPE FRUIT SALAD 

Cut fruit in halves, remove pulp in large bits with a teaspoon, 
take out fibres, cut edges in scallops or points with scissors and re- 
fill with fruit piling in lightly, pour over French dressing. Cheese 
straws and olives may be passed with this salad. 

PEPPER AND GRAPE FRUIT SALAD 

Cut slices from the stem ends of 3 green and 3 red peppers, 
use the pulp of 2 grape fruits, 12 English walnuts, x /i cup chopped 
celery hearts, remove seeds from peppers, refill with grape fruit, 
walnuts and celery, serve on lettuce leaf with dressing No. 1. 

THOUSAND ISLAND DRESSING 

To 1 pint of mayonnaise dressing add Yl bottle (15 cents) 
chilli sauce, 1 bunch chives chopped fine, 2 chopped pimentoes, 
3 hard boiled eggs, x /i green pepper, salt and paprika to taste, 
mix well. Should make 1 quart. Set away on ice to get cold. 

ROQUEFORTE CHEESE DRESSING 

Press 34 pound Roqueforte cheese to a smooth paste then add 
French dressing made with vinegar omitting mustard. 

PERFECTION SALAD 

Heat \ x /i tablespoons gelatine in 3^2 CU P vinegar with 1 cup 
water, set away to harden, when it begins to thicken, add Yi CU P 
each of shredded celery and cabbage, Y2 cup chopped pimentoes 
or olives, (can use peas, or carrots.) Set away in molds. Serve 
with cooked dressing. 

BEET SALAD 

Dissolve 2 tablespoons gelatine in 34 CU P c °ld water, then add 
% cup boiling water, 34 cup vinegar, Y2 teaspoon salt, 1 tablespoon 
sugar, 34 teaspoon paprika, dash cayenne, add 2 cups cooked 
diced beets, set away in molds, serve on lettuce leaves with mayon- 
naise. 

ARTICHOKE SALAD 

Cut off ends of artichoke, wash and boil for 1 hour in salt water, 
remove, let get cold, serve as a salad with hot melted butter. 

RIPE TOMATO SALAD 

Use medium size tomatoes, peel, remove centers, chop centers, 
mix with either chopped cucumber or cabbage, and onion, refill; 
serve on lettuce, with mayonnaise No. 1 

71 



TOMATO JELLY SALAD 

One and one-half cups tomato pulp, 1 bay leaf, 4 cloves, 1 
blade mace, Yi teaspoon salt, Y teaspoon paprika, 10 drops onion 
juice, simmer 15 minutes, add Yi DOX gelatine which has been soaked 
in Y cup cold water, stir until dissolved, add 2 tablespoons vinegar, 
pour into a wetted mold, when firm serve on a platter of lettuce 
leaves, garnish with mayonnaise No 1. Cauliflower and asparagus 
can be served as a salad with sauce hollandaise. 

CUCUMBER JELLY SALAD 

Four large cucumbers grated, 1 tablespoon gelatine, Y CU P 
water, 4 tablespoons vinegar, Yi teaspoon salt, Yi teaspoon whole 
white pepper, 1 teaspoon onion juice, place all ingredients into a 
saucepan, let come to a boil, remove from fire, strain, add a few 
drops of green coloring, pour into a wetted mold, set away for a 
few hours, then turn carefully out of mold and cover with French 
dressing. Serve with fish. 

CUCUMBER SALAD 

Pare 2 medium sized cucumbers, slice very thin, slice 1 onion, 
soak together in cold salt water and a pinch of soda until ready to 
serve. Serve either with salt, pepper and vinegar or French dressing 
No. 2. 

POTATO SALAD 

Boil 3 large potatoes, when done and cool cut in dice shape or 
cubes, add Yi onion chopped, few capers, celery, 1 tablespoon chop- 
ped parsley, a pinch cayenne, Yl teaspoon salt, mix it all together 
with dressing No. 3, line a salad bowl with lettuce which has been 
previously rubbed with garlic, pour in mixture, serve with cold 
beaten biscuit. 

CABBAGE SALAD OR COLD SLAW 

Two cups finely chopped cabbage, Y onion chopped fine, can 
use plain vinegar, salt and pepper or mix it with dressing No. 3 or 
dressing No. 2. 

CABBAGE SALAD NO. 2 

(MRS. T. W. WILLIAMSON) 

Three cups shredded cabbage, pour over \Yi tablespoons vine- 
gar, 1 teaspoon sugar, Yl teaspoon salt, set away on ice until ready 
to serve, then drain off vinegar, add 1 cup of whipped cream; serve 
at once on lettuce leaf. 

CHICKEN SALAD 

Cut cold boiled chicken in dice, cut celery in dice using white 
meat of chicken only, serve with cream dressing No. 4, garnish 
with hard boiled eggs, pickle, capers, celery tips, lettuce or olives. 

72 



LOBSTER SALAD 

Cut lobster in 1-inch pieces, mix together with Y as much lettuce 
as lobster, add juice of Yl lemon, stand on ice until ready, then 
add cream dressing No. 4, serve with Saratoga wafers on lettuce 
leaves. Shrimp and crab salads the same way. 

FISH SALAD 

All kinds of cold cooked fish can be used for salads. Using Yl 
cucumber as a boat after having been split and seeds removed, 
served with either French or mayonnaise dressing. 

MEAT SALADS 

Any kind of tender meat may be used, 1 pint cold meat cut in 
small thin pieces and to dressing No. 2 add 1 teaspoon onion juice 
and 1 tablespoon chopped parsley. Place in bowl a layer of meat 
and a layer of dressing and so on until all is used. Let stand on ice 
for 2 hours, garnish the dish with water cress or parsley. 

WALDORF SALAD 

One cup apples, pouring lemon juice over to prevent darkening, 
1 cup celery, Yl cup chopped nuts, serve on lettuce leaf with either 
dressing No. 4 or No. 1. 

OKRA SALAD 

Boil 1 pound of Okra pods, when cold cut them into thin slices, 
mix with a handful of grated horseradish, rub salad bowl with a 
cut clove or garlic, put in a bed of lettuce leaves upon this, place 
the okra slices, season with salt and pepper, pour over dressing No. 
2; garnish with radish roses. 

PIQUANT JELLY 

Into a double boiler place 2 glasses of tart jelly (currant pre- 
ferrably), as it is melting whip into it 3 tablespoons of mustard, 
six drops of tabasco, 2 teaspoons gelatine which has been softened 
in a trifle of cold water and melted over steam, when all ingredients 
are perfectly blended into a paste turn into dainty little individual 
molds, set away to cool, served with baked shad. 

ASPIC JELLY 

Soak Yl box gelatine Yl hour in 1 cup cold water, add to this 1 
pint of chicken or any good liquor, 1 slice onion, 1 bay leaf, 2 cloves, 
a sprig parsley, Yl teaspoon salt, pinch cayenne, after having all 
been cooked 15 minutes strain through flannel cloth. Can be used 
as a salad on lettuce or as a garnish for cold meats. 

OYSTER SALAD 

Scald oysters until plumped, cut into pieces, mix with sauce 
tartar, serve on lettuce with celery, sweetbread and celery with 
French No. 2 or mayonnaise No. 1. 

73 



PIMENTO SALAD 

(S. THOMPSON) 

One tablespoon gelatine dissolved in cold water, then 2 table- 
spoons hot water, let cool, then add 1 cup chopped pimento, 13^2 
cups grated American cheese, pinch mustard and salt, then 1 cup 
whipped cream, mold, set away on ice, serve on lettuce leaf with 
mayonnaise. 



Sauces and Gravies 



SAUCE TARTAR 

Use mayonnaise dressing, add to this a few chopped pickles, 
1 tablespoon capers and 1 tablespoon finely chopped celery, 1 
tablespoon of olives. Can be used with fried fish, cold meats and 
for oyster salad or chicken croquettes. 

WALNUT CATSUP 

Select fine, firm walnuts (about four pounds), soak them in 
vinegar enough to cover after having pounded them to a pulp, 
add to this after two hours 2 tablespoons salt, 1 teaspoon horse- 
radish, 1 cup mustard seed and garlic, 2 ounces allspice, 2 ounces 
cloves, 2 ounces nutmeg, 1 ounce black pepper and 2 ounces celery 
seed, boil all for 1 hour, then strain through a hair seive and bottle, 
sealing the covers. Walnut catsup to be served with venison. 

MINT SAUCE 

Chop fine 1 bunch fresh mint, mix with \ l /2 tablespoons sugar, 
pinch of salt and pepper, rub well together, add Yi cup vinegar, 
let stand for 1 hour, serve with spring lamb. 

CAPER SAUCE 

Use 1 teacup liquor from the boiled mutton, 1 tablespoon capers, 
pinch salt, dash cayenne pepper, 1 teaspoon flour, 1 tablespoon 
butter, mix all together, let come to boil 5 minutes, serve with 
boiled mutton. 

CELERY SAUCE 

One teacup chopped celery, put on to cook in enough water to 
cover for 15 minutes, add 1 3^2 tablespoons butter, 1 teaspoon flour, 
Yi teaspoon salt, 34 teaspoon paprika, 34 cup cream, serve with 
quail or any small bird. 

CREAM SAUCE 

One tablespoon flour, 1 cup milk, Yi cup cream, 3^2 CU P butter, 
cook all together until thick in a double boiler, when done add x /i 
teaspoon salt, 34 spoon white pepper, to serve with sweetbreads, 
oyster patties, peas or cauliflower. 

74 



MAITRE D' HOTEL SAUCE 

Butter size of an egg, juice of Y lemon, 2 teaspoons chopped 
parsley, Y teaspoon pepper, Yi teaspoon salt. Spread over any 
broiled meat, fish or oyster when hot, then place dish in oven a 
few moments to allow butter to penetrate meat. 



TOMATO SAUCE 

Two teacups tomato pulp, 2 cloves, sprig parsley, Yi teaspoon 
pepper, saltspoon salt, cook Yi hour, press all through a sieve, rub 
Y cup butter, and 1 teaspoon flour together, add tomato pulp, 
let cook 5 minutes stirring all the time, when done add 3 or 4 drops 
onion juice. Serve with veal cutlets or chops. 



SAUCE HOLLANDAISE 

Beat Yi CU P butter to a cream, add yolks of 3 eggs, juice of Y 
lemon, 4 drops onion juice, 6 peppercorns, 1 bay leaf, put all in a 
double boiler, stirring continually for a few moments, then add a 
little stock, with a Y teaspoon nutmeg, Y teaspoon salt, continue 
stirring about 5 minutes longer, until thick as custard, strain through 
a sieve, then add 1 teaspoon butter, serve with boiled fish, asparagus, 
or cauliflower. 

MUSHROOM SAUCE 

One-half pint mushrooms placed in Yl P mt of rich gravy, 
simmer until quite tender, drain, keep mushrooms hot, melt 1 
tablespoon butter in a saucepan, add 1 tablespoon flour, stir until 
brown, add gravy, stirring until it boils, then add mushrooms, 
serve with cutlets. 

SAUCE BERNAISE 

Yolks of 4 eggs, 4 tablespoons stock, 4 tablespoons olive oil, 
1 bay leaf, Yi teaspoon salt, 1 saltspoon pepper, 2 tablespoons 
vinegar, 1 tablespoon chopped onion, put onion and bay leaf in 
vinegar to boil for 10 minutes, cool, add eggs well beaten, oil, 
stock and pepper, stand in bowl over hot water, stirring constantly 
until thickened but do not let curdle, cool and strain through sieve, 
add salt, stand aside to cool. Serve with cold or hot meat, fish 
broiled or fillets of beef. 



FISH BALL SAUCE 

Mix together 1 tablespoon dry mustard, 1 teaspoon salt, \Y 
teaspoons sugar, 1 teaspoon flour, 1 teaspoon butter and 4 tea- 
spoons vinegar in a sauce pan, add Yl CU P boiling water, stir over 
fire until it thickens; must be smooth; serve cold with fishballs. 

75 



BROWN ONION SAUCE 

Slice and fry 6 large onions in 2 tablespoons butter, stir often, 
do not burn, but a nice brown, add Yi pint of some good gravy, 
let simmer a few moments, add 34 teaspoon pepper, Yi teaspoon 
salt, strain through a sieve, keep hot; serve with roast duck. 



APPLE SAUCE 

Core and pare 6 large tart apples, quarter, put on in a saucepan, 
with 1 pint water, x /i cup sugar, add juice of x /i lemon; when done 
serve with roast pork. 

CRANBERRY SAUCE 

Pick, wash and put on to cook 1 quart of cranberries, (do not 
cover), when done strain through sieve, add enough sugar to make 
a stiff jelly, pour in mold, serve cold with either roast turkey or 
roast chicken. 

MELTED BUTTER SAUCE 

Melt Y<l cup butter, add a pinch black pepper, serve with broiled 
mackerel. 

EGG SAUCE 

Boil 10 minutes and let cool 2 eggs, remove shells, mince very 
fine, beat 34 pound butter, mix eggs and butter well together, 
serve hot with salt fish. 

PLAIN GRAVY 

If for roast, add 1 tablespoon flour to 1 pint stock, mix flour in 
cold water, then add 1 teaspoon butter which will prevent fat 
from rising to the top, let cook until thick, strain, add salt and 
pepper to taste. Can use burnt sugar for coloring. 

CREAM GRAVY 

When through frying chicken or any small meats pour out of 
frying pan all fat except about 1 3^2 tablespoons, then add 1 scant 
tablespoon flour, salt and pepper, 1 tablespoon butter, and 13^ 
pints good milk, stir and cook 5 minutes, serve. 

GRAVY FOR FOWLS 

Boil necks, feet, gizzard, livers and hearts all together until 
tender, then chop all fine, add to the stock into which the fowl has 
been roasted with enough flour to make a good gravy, add salt, 
pepper and butter, serve hot. 

76 



HORSERADISH SAUCE 

One cup soup stock with 2 teaspoons fat from the stock, x /i CU P 
vinegar, pinch salt, x /l teaspoon sugar, x /l teaspoon cinnamon, 
juice 3^2 lemon, Yi teaspoon flour, let come to boil, remove from 
fire, add enough horseradish to make thick. 

TOMATO CATSUP 

One-half peck ripe tomatoes peeled, 2 red peppers, 2 onions, 
34 cup salt, 1 cup brown sugar, x /i CU P mustard seed, 1 cup grated 
horseradish, 2 tablespoons black pepper, 1 quart cider vinegar, 
chop tomatoes fine, drain, chop onions and peppers fine, mix all 
together, rub through collander, bottle. Will keep. 

CUCUMBER CATSUP 

Four large cucumbers, grate, add 34 cup white vinegar, pinch 
paprika, 1 grated onion, saltspoon salt, 34 teaspoon white pepper, 
mix all together, bottle. 

ORANGE SALAD 

Peel and cut oranges in thick slices crosswise, then quarter, 
slice, place each quarter on lettuce leaf with 1 walnut meat thereon, 
In space between quarters place a spoon of mayonnaise, or lay 3 
slices on lettuce with French dressing, serve with game or fowl. 

BECHAMEL SAUCE 

Fry chopped onion in the butter, continue to make as for white 
sauce, using stock instead of milk. 

WHITE SAUCE 

Place in double boiler 1 tablespoon butter, rub in 1 tablespoon 
flour, add 1 cup warm milk, 34 teaspoon salt, dash white pepper, 
rubbing all until smooth and rather thick. 

PUDDING SAUCES 

A hard sauce is made of Y2 CU P butter, 1 cup sifted powdered 
sugar, 1 teaspoon flavoring, 1 saltspoon nutmeg, cream butter, 
add sugar gradually until white and very light, flavor, pile on dish, 
grate nutmeg over, set away to harden, then serve. 

CREAMY SAUCE 

A white sauce sweetened : 1 x /i pints milk, 1 teaspoon cornstarch, 
pinch salt, flavor, add beaten white of egg. 

77 



CUSTARD SAUCE 

Place in double boiler 1 teaspoon cornstarch, 1 pint milk, stick 
cinnamon, yolk 1 egg, Yi cup sugar, stir all together, cook until 
thick, remove from fire, strain, add pinch salt. 

EVERYDAY SAUCE 

One-half cup butter, 1 teaspoon flour, \i nutmeg grated, 1 
cup sugar, 1 cup boiling water, cook all until rather thick, add x /i 
teaspoon vanilla. 

FOAMY SAUCE 

One-half cup butter, 1 cup powdered sugar, 1 teaspoon vanilla, 
x /i cup boiling water, white 1 egg, cream butter, add sifted sugar 
gradually, flavor, beat well, just before serving add boiling water, 
then the beaten white; sauce should be foamy. 

BRANDY SAUCE 

Two cups water, 1 cup sugar, dissolve sugar in water, add 
tablespoon cornstarch or arrowroot diluted in cold water, stir until 
cornstarch is clear, remove from fire, add 2 tablespoons brandy or 
wine and saltspoon mace, dash nutmeg. 

LEMON SAUCE FOR PUDDING 

One cup sugar, 2 tablespoons butter, 1 egg, juice 1 lemon, stir 
all together in a double boiler, cook until thick as a custard. 

WINE SAUCE CREAM 

One pint whipping cream, 1 teaspoon vanilla, 34 nutmeg grated, 

2 tablespoons powdered sugar, 4 tablespoons sherry, whip cream, 
add sugar, vanilla and wine, whip until sugar is dissolved, add 
nutmeg, stand on ice until wanted. 

COLD CREAM SAUCE 

Whip 1 pint thick sour cream, add 1 teaspoon vanilla, }/i 
grated nutmeg, 4 tablespoons sherry, if you use wine 2 tablespoons 
powdered sugar, stir all together until sugar is dissolved, stand on 
ice until wanted, serve with either boiled or baked puddings. 

SAUCE FOR LEMON TOAST 

Two tablespoons butter, 1 cup sugar, whites of 3 eggs well 
beaten, heat in double boiler, add juice of 1 lemon, serve over toast 
of slices of Betsy Ross bread dipped in % pint milk, the yolks of 

3 eggs, sauted in hot; serve hot, with sauce. 

78 



LEMON SAUCE FOR FOWLS OR FISH 

One-half cup butter, 1 egg, dash paprika, juice 1 lemon, let all 
cook until thick, when done add 1 saltspoon salt, serve hot. 

Below is given a list of sauces which will be of a great benefit 
to one wanting to know how and what to serve with meats: 
Celery sauce with quail or any small bird. 
Walnut catsup with venison. 
Mint sauce with roast lamb. 
Mint jelly sauce with cold lamb. 
Apple sauce with roast pork or goose. 
Currant jelly with roast duck. 
Orange salad with roast chicken. 
Cream sauce with sweetbreads. 
Sauce, piquant, with baked shad. 
Sauce tartare with boiled lobster. 
Tomato catsup with corned beef. 
Cucumber catsup with corned beef. 
Melted butter sauce with mackerel. 
Tart grape jelly with canvasback duck. 
Sauce tartare with chicken croquettes and fried fish. 
Cucumber jelly with timbales; fish pudding. 
Egg sauce with fish balls, boiled fish or baked. 
Lemon sauce for baked fish. 

Maitre d' Hotel sauce with steamed oysters, steak or chops. 
Onion sauce and celery with roast duck. 
Horseradish and fried onions with liver. 
Olives stuffed with cheese with tongue. 
Yorkshire pudding with roast beef. 
Mushroom sauce with fillet of beef. 
Cold slaw with roast veal. 
Tomato sauce with veal cutlets. 
Cranberry sauce with roast turkey or chicken. 
Caper sauce with boiled mutton. 



Sandwiches 



BROWN BREAD SANDWICHES 

Use Boston brown bread, steam before spreading with butter, 
cut very thin, use grated cheese and finely chopped nuts well salted 
for filling. 

CHICKEN SANDWICHES 

Chop finely the white meat of cold chicken, season with salt 
and pepper, moisten with salad dressing or chicken stock, use 
Betsy Ross white bread. 

79 



ANCHOVY 

Make a paste of the yolks of hard boiled eggs, season with 
essence of anchovy, moisten with melted butter, spread between 
thin rounds of buttered bread. 

CANAPE OF CHEESE SANDWICHES 

Sprinkle toasted bread with a layer of grated cheese seasoned 
with salt and cayenne pepper, place in oven, bake until cheese is 
melted, serving while hot. 

HAM SANDWICHES 

Thin slices of cold boiled ham placed between thin slices of 
buttered Betsy Ross bread, serve with mustard. 

MUSHROOM SANDWICHES 

Mince boiled mushrooms and cold beef or tongue together, 
spread between thin slices of buttered bread; can place a speck of 
French mustard into the filling. 

CAVIAR SANDWICHES 

Mix a finely chopped onion with the caviar, spread between 
thin slices of buttered rye bread. 

FIG SANDWICHES 

Cook until a paste is formed in a double boiler of 1 pint minced 
figs and a small quantity of water, add a few drops lemon juice, 
cool mixture and spread on thin slices of buttered bread; can 
sprinkle with finely chopped English walnuts, cover with pieces of 
buttered Betsy Ross bread. 

LOBSTER SANDWICHES 

Thoroughly chop the meat of a lobster, season with salt, 
mustard, tobasco and lemon juice, spread on a fresh leaf of lettuce 
and place between buttered slices of bread. 

RIBBON SANDWICHES 

Remove crust from 1 loaf of Betsy Ross bread, slice into 8 or 
9 slices, butter and place on each slice a mixture of mayonnaise 
of either ham, beef, mutton, veal, dark parts of any fowl, stack 
each slice one upon the other, leaving the upper one without any 
on top, wrap the whole as a loaf again in a cloth previously dipped 
in hot water wrung as dry as can, tie tightly, place an iron on top 
let stand for 3 hours; when ready for it remove cloth, slice in ribbon 
shapes. The dark meat and white bread represent the ribbon effect 
and looks so pretty. 

80 



Soups 



There are two principal ways of making soup stock known as 
clear stock and mixed stock. For clear stock, always use fresh 
meat and bone, namely knuckle of veal, shank mutton, and a beef 
soup bone. Mixed stock is made from bones and pieces of meat 
left from roasts and uncooked meats. 

A supply of spices, ground and whole, herbs and flavorings for 
soups and sauces should be laid in. Ground spices: pepper, paprika, 
sage, summer savory, celery salt, cinnamon, cloves and mace; 
whole spices: peppercorns, cloves, celery seed and mustard seed; 
flavorings: cornstarch, arrowroot, curry powder, Betsy Ross bread 
crumbs and lemon, herbs: thyme, marjoram and bay leaves; 
vegetables for soup: onions, celery, tomatoes, cabbage, carrots, 
turnips, parsley. 

There is another division of soup, the one made with milk and 
vegetables or fruits. 

MIXED STOCK 

Cover trimmings and tough pieces of bone left from roasts, 
fries and broils with cold water, allow 1 teaspoon salt for each 
gallon of water, cook slowly for 4 hours, then add an onion, 6 
cloves, 6 peppercorns, 2 sage leaves, 2 sprigs thyme, 1 bay leaf, 2 
sprigs summer savory, simmer for 1 hour longer, strain and cool 
quickly. This stock can be used in sauces or served as a simple 
soup, garnished with vegetables or some well cooked tapioca. 



CLEAR STOCK 

Place in pot shin of beef, knuckle veal, shank of mutton, about 
43^ pounds all together, add 5 quarts cold water, 2 teaspoons salt, 
let come to a boil slowly, simmer slowly for 4 or 5 hours or until 
the meat falls from the bone, strain and cool quickly, if cools slowly, 
will sour very quickly, when cold skim off fat. For beef broth 
heat the plain clear stock, season with salt, pepper and a little 
chopped parsley and serve. 

White stock is made from chicken and veal allowing 1 quart 
water to each pound of meat and bone. 



CHICKEN STOCK 

Singe and scrub a hen fowl, place in a kettle and cover with 
boiling water, cook slowly, until fowl is tender, remove from broth, 
cool the broth quickly, when cold remove fat. Chicken can be 
used for salad, croquettes, creamed chicken, hash or cold boiled 
chicken. 

81 



CHICKEN BROTH 

To 1 quart of chicken stock add 4 tablespoons of boiled rice, 
two teaspoons chopped parsley, heat boiling hot, season with salt 
and pepper and serve. 

BOUILLON 

Five pounds of beef taken from the round, 2 x /i quarts cold 
water, 1 teaspoon salt, 2 cloves, 1 carrot, 1 tablespoon chopped 
onion, 1 sprig of parsley, 1 stalk celery and 4 peppercorns, cook all 
together for 8 or 10 hours, set off to cool after straining, next 
morning remove fat, heat scalding hot, serve. If bouillon is wanted 
all the seasoning except salt and pepper may be omitted. 



CONSOMME 

One pint of chicken or veal stock, 1 pint beef stock, 2 cloves, 
3/£ inch piece each of mace and cinnamon, 1 egg, 3^2 s P r ig parsley, 
1 tablespoon chopped onion, 1 cup of carrots, parsnips and turnips, 
1 bay leaf, 2 peppercorns, x /i stalk celery, rind and juice % lemon. 
Brown vegetables in bacon fat taking care not to burn them, add 
them and spices to the stock, cook slowly 2 hours, strain, remove 
fat, break egg (the white) into Yl CU P c °ld water, mix thoroughly, 
add this to the soup, let come to the boiling point, add lemon, salt, 
pepper, cook slowly 10 minutes, strain through sieve or cheese 
cloth, reheat soup, place in each plate a thin slice lemon and 3 all- 
spice; serve hot. 

VEGETABLE SOUP 

Secure about 4 pounds brisket beef put on to cook in enough 
cold water to cover, let simmer for 3 hours, then add 1 teacup 
chopped cabbage. 1 cup chopped turnips, 2 carrots, 1 onion, a stalk 
celery all chopped very fine, let cook 1 hour, then add x /i can to- 
matoes, let cook !/2 hour longer, then add ]/o teacup rice, let all 
cook until rice is done taking care not to let rice stick and burn in 
bottom, stir often then add 1 tablespoon butter, 1 sprig parsley, 
salt and pepper to taste. This soup has been made 50 years by 
Mrs. R. M. Chisolm of Montreal, Canada. 



OXTAIL SOUP 

Wash and separate the joints of two oxtails, chop fine and fry 
one large onion in hot fat, when browned move to one side and 
brown x /i °f the oxtails, now put all in soup kettle with 4 quarts 
of cold water, add 1 tablespoon salt, 1 tablespoon herbs, 4 cloves, 
4 peppercorns, simmer 4 hours, then strain, skim off fat, serve, 
selecting the finest joints to serve with soup. Or can add 1 pint 
vegetables, celery, turnip, carrot and potatoes cut into fancy 
shapes; after soup is strained boil until tender and serve. 

82 



DIFFERENT SOUPS 

Barley, vermicelli, macaroni, and various other soups can be 
made by simply cooking until done in clear water, then add soup 
stock, salt, pepper to taste. 

THINGS TO SERVE IN SOUPS 

Force meat balls, egg balls and noodles. 

For force meat balls can use any kind of finely chopped meat 
seasoned with celery salt, paprika, salt and chopped parsley or 
onion juice, with an egg broken in and sprinkled over with some 
flour, mixed all thoroughly together, roll in balls like marble. 
May be cooked in hot water, fried in butter, or rolled in egg and 
dipped in Betsy Ross crumbs and fried in hot lard. 

EGG BALLS 

Yolks 4 hard boiled eggs, 1 tablespoon salt, 1 saltspoon paprika, 
1 teaspoon melted butter, raw egg, work yolks to a powder, add 
seasoning, butter and just enough beaten egg to make a stiff paste, 
roll in the whites of eggs and flour, then fry in a teaspoon of butter 
or fat, shape like marbles. 

NOODLES 

Two eggs slightly beaten, add 2 teaspoons water, 1 saltspoon 
salt, flour enough to make a stiff dough, work it well about 15 
minutes, now roll it very thin, sift flour over, roll up in a long, tight 
roll, using a sharp knife, cut it into very thin slices, hang on chair 
to dry for Yl hour, then drop in soup, cook 10 minutes can be dried 
and put away for other soups. 

CROUTONS 

Use slices of Betsy Ross bread cut in cubes; either brown in 
oven or fry in hot fat served with soup. 

DRIED SPLIT PEA SOUP 

One gallon water 1 quart split peas which have been soaked, 

1 pound salt pork cut in 1-inch pieces, 3^2 pound beef cut in pieces, 
put over and boil slowly 2 hours or until liquor does not exceed 

2 quarts, pour into collander and press through with a wooden 
spoon, return soup to pot adding small head of celery and sprig of 
parsley all chopped fine, serve with croutons. 

FOUNDATION FOR MILK OR CREAM SOUPS 

One tablespoon butter, 1 tablespoon flour, 1 quart hot milk, 
1 teaspoon salt, x /i. saltspoon paprika, rub flour and butter together 
in sauce pan, add hot milk, stirring all the time, let cook until 
thickens. 

83 



BLACK BEAN SOUP OR MOCK TURTLE 

One quart black beans soaked over night, next morning put in 
soup kettle the beans, a beef bone, a small ham bone or (hock) with 
1 gallon of water, let all boil until beans are tender, take beans out 
of liquor, press through a collander, and put back in soup and boil 
again about 5 or 10 minutes, season to taste with pepper, salt and 
a little tomato catsup; just before serving add 1 tablespoon sherry 
wine, slices of lemon cut very thin and slices of hard boiled egg. 
If served in soup plates into each one put a sprinkle of egg, which 
has been put through a sieve. 



CREAM TOMATO SOUP 

Into 1 quart tomatoes add pinch of soda, 1 bay leaf, 1 sprig 
parsley, 1 slice onion, stew 20 minutes strain, add to this the 
foundation, serve at once. 



CREAM CHICKEN SOUP 

One and one-half pints of chicken or veal stock thickened with 
flour and 1 tablespoon melted butter, pour into it 1 pint hot milk, 
season with onion, celery, salt and pepper, beat one egg, strain 
stock into it, add a little chopped parsley, serve at once. 

CREAM MUSHROOM SOUP 

One can mushrooms chopped very fine, heat in their liquor, 
in double boiler place 1 quart milk, 2 tablespoons butter, 1 table- 
spoon flour, have all smooth, when done add mushrooms (without 
liquor), a dash cayenne, }/% saltspoon paprika, Yi teaspoon salt, 
serve at once; can add 1 teaspoon whipped cream to each plate. 

FRESH OR COVE OYSTERS 

Heat oysters in their own liquor and milk all separately, when 
milk has come to the boiling point add 13^ tablespoons butter 
the oysters and liquor, 1 teaspoon salt, x /i teaspoon paprika, 
serve very hot with celery and crackers. 

KORNLET SOUP 

(the heart of the kernel) 

One can kornlet, heated to boiling point, in double boiler rub 
\y<i tablespoons butter and 1 tablespoon flour together, add 1 
quart milk, let boil, add 1 teaspoon salt, 1 saltspoon white pepper, 
add kornlet, beat 1 egg light and mix gradually with soup, serve at 
once while very hot; can omit the egg; can use 1 teaspoon whipped 
cream to each plate. 

84 



CREAMED TOMATO SOUP 

One cup mashed potatoes, 1 teaspoon flour, 2 tablespoons butter, 
1 bay leaf, 1 quart milk, place all in double boiler, when thick re- 
move from fire, strain, add 1 teaspoon salt, 3^2 teaspoon paprika, 
serve with either bread sticks or salt wafers. 

PEA SOUP (CREAMED) 

One can peas pressed through sieve, put in double boiler 1 
teaspoon flour, 1 tablespoon butter, 1 quart milk, when thick add 
pea "puree", stir 5 minutes, add 1 teaspoon salt, 3^ teaspoon 
paprika, dash cayenne, serve very hot. 

CREAMED CELERY SOUP 

Wash a few leaves, roots and outside pieces celery, place in 
kettle, now cut about }/£ cup of the center pieces into very small 
pieces, cook all together in enough water to cover until tender, when 
done, remove leaves, roots and outside pieces, add to this 1 table- 
spoon flour rubbed together with 2 tablespoons butter, x /% quart 
milk, when thick add x /i teaspoon salt, dash celery salt, x /i tea- 
spoon paprika, serve very hot. 



Croquettes and Fritters 



CARROT CROQUETTES 

Wash, scrape and boil until tender enough carrots to have 
when drained and mashed, a large cupful, add to this salt and 
pepper to taste, yolks two raw eggs, pinch mace, 1 teaspoon butter, 
mix all thoroughly, set away to get cold, shape into tiny croquettes, 
dip in slightly beaten egg, roll in fine Betsy Ross bread crumbs, 
fry in smoking hot fat. 

SWEETBREAD CROQUETTES 

Can fry or cream sweetbreads. 

Trim and parboil 1 pair sweetbreads, chop fine with a silver 
knife, put on in a double boiler 1 cup cream, add 2 tablespoons 
flour, 1 tablespoon butter, stir all together until thick, remove from 
fire, add sweetbreads, 34 teaspoon nutmeg, 5 drops onion juice, 
34 teaspoon white pepper, 1 tablespoon chopped parsley, 1 salt 
spoon salt, 2 tablespoons chopped mushrooms, mix well and turn 
out to cool. They should at least stand 4 hours in a cold place to 
form nicely. When cold form into croquettes, dip in bread crumbs 
and fry in boiling fat; can put a quilling of white paper in the small 
end of each croquette and serve with cream sauce. 

85 



SWEET POTATO CROQUETTES 

(pauline) 

Boil 6 large sweet potatoes, when done pare and mash as fine 
as can, take whites of 2 eggs beat to a stiff froth, now to the potato 
pulp add salt, pepper and 1 cup hot cream, lastly the whites, 
shape, fry in hot lard. 

CHICKEN CROQUETTE 

One pint cooked chicken chopped fine, 2 tablespoons butter, 
2 tablespoons flour, 1 cup cream, 1 teaspoon minced parsley, 
pepper and salt to taste, 1 teaspoon lemon juice, 1 teaspoon minced 
onion, cook together the butter and flour, add cream, stir constantly 
until it thickens, season the chicken with pepper, salt, onion, 
lemon juice and parsley, then add white sauce, mix thoroughly, 
spread on a buttered plate, set away to cool, when cold shape into 
croquettes, roll in bread crumbs, dip in egg, roll again in bread 
crumbs, fry in hot lard, drain on cheese cloth, serve with sprigs 
parsley and lemon points. 

ROYAL CROQUETTES 

Royal croquettes are made by using Yi chicken and Yi sweet 
breads. 

PARSNIP CONES 

Boil and mash very fine 3 good sized parsnips, add Yi CU P 
grated pineapple, 1 tablespoon butter, a dash pepper, 1 saltspoon 
paprika, Yl teaspoon salt, \Yi teaspoons sugar, 1 egg, 1 teaspoon 
sherry wine and 1 tablespoon cream, add enough cracker dust to 
form them into little cones, fry in hot lard, serve in napkin, garnished 
with water cress. 

CORN FRITTERS 

One and one-half cups corn, Yl CU P milk, 1 tablespoon sugar, 
Yi teaspoon salt and enough flour to make a stiff batter, 2 teaspoons 
baking powder, drop off of spoon in hot lard, cook to a golden 
brown, serve very hot with fried chicken or any small meats; 
can use peas the same way. 



CLAM FRITTERS 

Chop clams fine, stir into batter consisting of clam liquor, 1 
teaspoon salad oil, 1 egg, 1 cup flour, 1 saltspoon salt, 1 tablespoon 
lemon juice, dash pepper, have batter rather stiff, drop off from 
spoon in hot lard until a light brown, drain on cloth or paper, 
serve on napkin ; can use oysters same way. 

86 



TURKEY FRITTERS 

Use cold turkey, cut meat from bone in 2-inch pieces, season 
with salt and pepper, dip in batter consisting of 1 egg, Y2 CU P milk, 
2 tablespoons flour, pinch salt, fry in boiling lard or dripping 
until a nice brown, garnish with parsley and serve very hot. 



CAULIFLOWER FRITTERS 

Soak and boil the cauliflower in the usual way, then separate 
into flowers, dip each piece in a batter, plunge into boiling fat and 
fry a delicate brown, serve very hot on a napkin. If preferred the 
pieces may be dipped in a mixture of salt, pepper, vinegar, oil and 
then fried. 

SWEET POTATO BUNS 

Boil and mash two large potatoes, rub in as much flour as will 
make it like bread, add a little nutmeg and sugar to your taste, 
with a tablespoonful of good yeast, when it has risen, work in 2 
tablespoons of butter, then form it into small rolls and bake on 
tins a nice brown, serve hot, split open and butter; good for either 
breakfast or tea. 

POTATO CROQUETTES 

Pare, boil and mash 6 medium sized potatoes, add 1 tablespoon 
butter, dash pepper, 1 saltspoon salt, % cup milk, whites 2 eggs, 
1 tablespoon minced parsley, let cool slightly, then shape, roll in 
Betsy Ross crumbs, egg and crumb, fry in hot fat. 

RICE CROQUETTES 

One and one-half cups boiled rice, add % cup milk, 1 tablespoon 
sugar, 1 tablespoon butter, l /o, teaspoon salt, let all cook 3 minutes, 
add 2 eggs well beaten, cook 1 minute more, then take off and cool, 
when cold shape, roll in egg and Betsy Ross crumbs; fry and serve 
very hot. 

OTHER CROQUETTES 

Veal, mutton, lamb, beef or any kind of cooked meat or fish 
may be used to make croquettes. One cup finely chopped meat, 
add to it l /2 cup stale Betsy Ross bread crumbs, moisten with % 
cup cream, white 1 egg, dash nutmeg, 3 or 4 drops onion juice, 
season with salt and pepper, drop by spoonful into hot fat, fry until 
a nice brown. 

APPLE FRITTERS 

Pare and core 2 large tart apples, cut into slices about }/% of an 
inch in thickness, drop into the fritter batter, fry about 5 or 6 
minutes in very hot fat, serve hot with lemon sauce. 

87 



FRUIT FRITTERS 

Bananas, oranges, pineapple,' peaches, etc., are used for fritters, 
cut into small pieces or slices and add to the fritter batter, fry in 
deep fat heated very hot. 

FRITTER BATTER 

Make 1 hour before using. Smother 2 eggs, 2 teaspoons oil, 
}/l cup cold water or milk, x /2 spoon salt, 1 teaspoon baking powder, 
sweet fritters, 1 tablespoon sugar, 1 tablespoon lemon juice and 
enough flour to make a stiff batter, drop off of tea spoon in hot 
fat; serve as an entree or dessert. 

EGG TIMBALES 

One tablespoon each, butter and flour, }/% teaspoon salt, ^ 
teaspoon white pepper, few grains celery salt, 2}/% cups milk, 
3 eggs, beat yolks, add milk, spices, flour, butter, beat in stiffly 
beaten whites, fill timbale molds, bake 15 to 30 minutes. Serve 
pimento sauce. 



Vegetables 



ARTICHOKES 

Wash and peel, then parboil in salted water 10 or 15 minutes, 
drain, place in a dish, serve with white sauce. 

ARTICHOKES STEWED 

Mince a couple onions, fry them in 2 tablespoons butter, add 
parboiled artichokes cut into small pieces, moistened with a little 
stock, season with pepper, salt, and a little lemon juice, 1 teaspoon 
minced parsley, stew all gently together until quite done; can add 
a little parmesan cheese. 

ARTICHOKES 

Artichokes can be fried by dipping them in flour after having 
been parboiled 10 minutes. Can simply parboil in salt water 20 
minutes, let get cold, serve as a salad by using melted butter in 
each plate for each individual. 

ASPARAGUS 

Wash, scrape stalks, place in a pan of cold water until ready to 
cook, then put on to cook in boiling salt water, cook from 20 to 
30 minutes, remove, place on toast, serve with white sauce. 



ASPARAGUS SALAD 

Wash, scrape, parboil until tender; can serve hot with Holland- 
aise sauce or serve cold on lettuce leaf, with mayonnaise dressing 
with crackers. 

BEETS 

Wash and cook until tender young beets, peel, slice, pour over 
melted butter, a little sugar, salt and pepper; serve as a vegetable. 

BEETS AS A SALAD 

Can cut into cubes, season with a little salt, sugar, pepper and 
vinegar. 

BEETS AU GRATIN 

Cut beets in cubes, place in a baking dish a layer of beets, 
Y2 teaspoon flour, salt, pepper, a little sugar, bits butter, another 
layer of beets, etc., until dish is full, then pour over 1 cup of boiling 
water, with 2 tablespoons vinegar, set in oven to bake 1 hour; 
serve in dish. 

CAULIFLOWER CREAMED 

Remove leaves, break into flowers 1 head, wash and soak in 
cold water from 30 to 45 minutes in order to draw out any insects, 
etc., pour off cold water, place on stove to cook in boiling salt 
water for 20 minutes to 30 minutes, pour off water, add 1 table- 
spoon butter, Yi cup cream, Y% cup milk, Yi teaspoon flour, pinch 
salt, saltspoon white pepper, cook until consistency of a thin 
custard ; serve at once in a dish as a vegetable. 

CAULIFLOWER FRIED 

Prepare as above, parboil in boiling salt water, pour off water, 
taking flowers dip in egg then crumbs, then egg and crumbs fry 
in hot fat or part butter and fat until a nice brown; serve on a 
platter garnished with parsley as a vegetable. 

CAULIFLOWER AS A SALAD 

Remove leaves of 1 large head, soak in cold water with flower 
part down for 1 hour, remove, cook in boiling salt water Yi hour or 
until tender, remove from fire, drain off water, set away to cool, 
when cold, place in salad bowl lined with crisp lettuce which has 
been previously rubbed with either onion or garlic; serve with 
mayonnaise dressing. Pass wafers or cold beaten biscuits. 

CARROTS FRIED 

Wash, scrape, boil until tender, mash, add pinch salt, dash 
cayenne, 1 teaspoon butter, Yi teaspoon flour, form into balls, 
dip in egg, then crumbs, fry in hot fat. 

89 



CARROTS 

Wash, scrape and slice very thin young carrots, cook in boiling 
salt water Yl teaspoon sugar in until tender, when done remove 
from water, add 1 tablespoon butter, 1 teaspoon flour, saltspoon 
salt, dash pepper, Yl cup milk; cook until thick; serve hot at once 
in vegetable dish. 

CABBAGE BOILED 

Remove outside leaves, quarter or eighth of a head of cabbage, 
soak in cold water 20 minutes, have on boiling either Yl pound 
salt pork or a small ham "hock", add to this the cabbage, 1 pod 
red pepper, pinch soda, Yl teaspoon sugar, cook 1 hour; serve on 
platter with meat in center and cabbage around it; can place 2 or 3 
green peppers. 

CABBAGE FRIED 

Wash, chop rather fine, place in spider with one tablespoon 
butter and 1 tablespoon fat, Yl cup water, salt, pepper, let cook 
until water is all evaporated, then stir constantly until a nice 
brown; can cut in small pieces and cream. 

CELERY 

A splendid relish. Wash, remove all large leaves, scrape off 
soiled parts, wet a piece of paper, place around celery, lay on ice 
until ready for use, then place the nice crisp celery on a celery dish. 

CREAMED CELERY 

Using stalk, outside pieces, cut into small bits, cook in boiling 
salt water Yl hour or until tender, pour off water, add Yl teaspoon 
flour, Yl cup milk, 1 tablespoon butter, season with salt and 
paprika. 

CUCUMBERS 

Can use for relish, vegetable or jelly. 

CUCUMBERS AS A RELISH 

Pare and slice very thin, soak Yl hour in ice cold salt water, 
pour off water, place in a salad bowl with a small piece of ice, 
over which pour a French dressing made with vinegar. 

CUCUMBERS FRIED 

Pare, cut in slices, press slices upon a dry clean cloth, dredge 
with flour, drop them in a pan of boiling oil or butter, keep turning 
them until they are brown, remove from pan, lay on a sieve to 
drain, serve on a hot dish. 

90 



CUCUMBERS STUFFED 

Pare and split lengthwise, remove seeds, have ready some 
minced ham, Betsy Ross bread crumbs, plenty butter, pepper and 
a speck of salt, fill both halves with the mixture, put them together 
with toothpicks, place in baking dish with a little water and butter, 
bake until done, baste constantly, remove to a small platter, add 
34 cup cream, Yi teaspoon flour to the baking dish, cook until 
thickens, pour over cucumbers. 

CUCUMBERS STEWED 

Three large cucumbers, a little butter, Y2 P m t OI brown gravy, a 
little flour, cut the cucumbers lengthwise removing seeds, let cook 
5 minutes in boiling water, remove from water, add gravy, allow 
them to boil until tender, if there should be a bitter taste add 1 
teaspoon granulated sugar, dish carefully, skim the sauce, pour 
over cucumbers. 

CUCUMBER JELLY 

Can be found elsewhere in this book. 

CORN 

Take nice green corn, remove "shucks" and silk, have ready 
a kettle of boiling salt water, drop in "ears", let cook from 10 to 
20 minutes, remove from water, serve in a covered dish or in a 
napkin; eat with butter, pepper and salt. 

CORN FRIED 

Can use 6 ears; cut off corn carefully, with a sharp knife, add 
a little salt, sugar and pepper, place in a frying pan with a little 
butter and lard and x /i CU P water, let cook 20 minutes taking care 
not to burn. 

CORN STEWED OR CREAMED 

Use either green or canned corn, place on fire 10 minutes, add 
cream or milk, butter, sugar and salt 

CORN PUDDING 

Use 1 can corn, 2 eggs, 34 cup sugar, 1 cup milk, salt to taste, 
put all together in a baking dish, bake from 3^ to 1 hour, serve in 
same dish. 

BEANS 

Either wax or green beans, string, break in small bits, either 
boil with a piece of salt pork, a pinch soda, salt and pepper or cook 
1 hour in clear salt water, pour off water, season with butter, pepper > 
salt and a little cream or milk. 

91 



NAVY BEANS 

Boil until tender in clear hot water, add seasoning, salt, pepper 
or piece salt pork, then either bake or serve plain. 



NAVY BEANS TO BAKE 

Place in baking dish with a piece of salt pork, after having 
been previously boiled, add 1 tablespoon molasses, 34 spoon 
mustard, 1 teaspoon sugar, salt, pepper, bake from 1 to 2% hours in 
a slow oven keeping enough water over to prevent burning. 



EGG PLANT 

Peel and cut in rounds 34-inch slices, soak in cold salt water 
}/2 hour, then squeeze out, dip in beaten egg, then flour with salt 
and pepper in, fry in hot fat, serve very hot with tomato catsup. 

EGG PLANT STUFFED 

Wash and boil whole until tender or from 20 to 30 minutes, 
then cut off a little of the top, remove with a spoon the interior 
taking care not to break the outside skin, mix with a little minced 
onion, cracker or bread crumbs a little cream, lump butter, salt 
and pepper, place all back into the outside skin and bake 10 or 
15 minutes; or can cut into halves and stuff the two halves, let 
bake 20 minutes, serve on a hot platter as a vegetable. 

ESCALLOPED EGG PLANT 

Peel and cut into cubes 1 large egg plant, put on to boil in boiling 
salt water 20 minutes, remove from water, place in a baking dish 
1 row of egg plant cubes, salt, pepper, lump of butter, crumbs, then 
another layer of egg plant, etc., until dish is filled, lastly crumbs, 
then pour over \ Y /i cups cream or 2 cups milk, let bake slowly 1 
hour. 

EGG PLANT BAKED 

Peel, cut into halves, let boil until tender, remove from water, 
mash, season with plenty butter, pepper, salt, rich milk or cream, 
place all in a mound in a baking dish, dust over with Betsy Ross 
crumbs adding bits of butter, place in oven, let bake slowly until 
brown. 

MACARONI AND CHEESE 

One-half box macaroni, cook in salt water 15 minutes, drain, 
add butter, little grated cheese, paprika and 1 egg beaten, pour 
over 1 cup white sauce, put in ramekins or dish, sprinkle over with 
grated cheese and crumbs, bake to a light brown. 

92 



CHILLI CON CARNIE 

One pound Mexican chilli beans, 2 pounds chopped (not ground) 
raw beef, cook all until tender, add 1 teaspoon chilli powder, 1 
chilli pepper chopped fine, ^2 teaspoon cayenne, 1 teaspoon salt, 
1 onion chopped fine, 1 tablespoon paprika, 1 can of Gibb's table 
paste, cook Yi hour; fine. 

SPINACH 

Wash, pick spinach, in several waters, cook 20 minutes in clear 
boiling salt water, drain, press out water thoroughly, chop very 
fine, add butter, pepper, salt, a little nutmeg, while hot place in 
dish with sliced hard boiled egg over top; can use mustard, kale 
or any greens the same way or can cook either with a piece salt 
pork. Spinach can also be creamed. 

* SQUASH CREAMED (SUMMER) 

Pare, remove seeds and cut into cubes summer squash, cook 
from 15 to 30 minutes in boiling salt water, drain, add salt, pepper, 
butter and cream; heat; serve very hot. 

SQUASH MASHED 

Pare and remove seeds, place in boiling salt water, cook until 
tender, drain and mash as you would potatoes, season with salt, 
pepper, butter and a little cream. 

WINTER SQUASH 

Can bake, boil or be used for pies. To bake, split or break in 
medium pieces remove seeds, place in baking pan, bake from 1 
to 2 hours, serve in shell with butter, pepper and salt as sweet 
potatoes. 

WINTER SQUASH (TO BOIL) 

Cut in halves, remove seeds, put on to boil in clear water until 
tender, when done remove the yellow meat, place in pan, season 
with plenty of butter, salt, little sugar and pepper, serve hot as a 
vegetable; can bake after mashed, covered with crumbs. 

TURNIPS MASHED 

Peel and slice 6 or 8 turnips, put on to boil with 1 large potato, 
salt and Yi teaspoon sugar, when done, drain and mash, season 
with 1 tablespoon butter, dash cayenne, salt, 1 tablespoon cream. 

ONIONS CREAMED OR PLAIN 

Peel and wash all of 1 size onions, put on in boiling water with 
a little salt, let cook from 1 and \ x /i hours, when done season with 
salt, pepper, butter and cream; the cream can be omitted. 

93 



TURNIPS CREAMED 

Peel and cut into cubes, place on stove in boiling salt water, 
cook Yi hour, drain, add 1 teaspoon flour, 1 tablespoon butter, 
1 cup milk, cayenne and salt, little sugar, cook all until thick, serve 
at once. 

TURNIPS AND SPARE RIBS 

Peel and quarter 8 turnips, put on in stew pan with 2 pounds 
spare ribs with just enough water to cover, add salt and pepper to 
taste with Yi teaspoon sugar over turnips, taking care to have ribs 
at the bottom of pan, cook 1^ hours or until done; delicious. 

ONIONS BAKED OR STUFFED 

Put on to parboil 6 large onions (leaving on peel). 20 minutes, 
remove from fire, peel, remove little centers, chop fine with a little 
bread crumbs, salt, pepper, butter, put back into the onion, place 
in baking dish, spread with bits butter, little pepper and salt, 
cover with water, put on cover, let bake from 2 to 3 hours; will 
have a delicious sauce when done; baste occasionally. 

ONIONS FRIED 

Peel, slice round ways 6 or 7 Bermudas, place fat in frying pan, 
pour in onions, add salt, pepper to taste and Yi cup water, let cook 
until all water evaporates, let fry, stirring occasionally to prevent 
burning; when a nice brown remove to a platter, surround either 
with slices bacon, liver or small steak. 

STUFFED CABBAGE 

Remove wilted leaves from a nice, firm, white head of cabbage, 
pour over it boiling water, let stand 15 minutes, drain, scald again, 
let stand 30 minutes then drain thoroughly; wash Y CU P f i ce > 
mix it with 1 cup finely minced beef, add 2 tablespoons each of 
chopped onion and parsley, 1 teaspoon salt, and a dash of pepper, 
mix well; open cabbage to the very center and put in a tiny bit of 
the stuffing, fold over a few leaves, add a layer of the mixture, then 
fold over the next layer of leaves, press the whole together firmly, 
wrap in a clean cheese cloth and place in a kettle of boiling water, 
simmer gently about 3 hours, adding salt for the last hour, when 
tender remove cloth, place on a platter, and surround with cream 
sauce. 

"SPANISH ONIONS A LA GRECQUE" 

Peel and cut off pointed ends, place in a deep dish and put a 
piece of butter and a little salt and pepper on the place where 
point has been cut off, cover, let bake 3 hours; will have a delicious 
gravy. 

94 



TOMATOES STEWED 

If fresh pour scalding water over, let stand 5 minutes, pour off 
water, peel, cook 20 minutes, add butter, pepper, salt, sugar and 
1 teaspoon flour; if canned cook 10 minutes; can add Betsy Ross 
bread crumbs instead of flour. 

TOMATOES BROILED 

Slice in pieces x /o inch thick large firm tomatoes, broil upon a 
gridiron for a few moments, while they are broiling prepare some 
hot butter in a cup, add pepper, salt, a little made mustard, sugar, 
when the tomatoes are done, dip each piece into the mixture, then 
place in dish which must be hot; if any of seasoning remains heat 
to boiling point and pour over dish of tomatoes, serve immediately; 
nice, if cooked properly. 

TOMATOES STUFFED ON TOAST 

Dip tomatoes in hot water, peel them, cut them in halves, 
remove pips, rub a baking sheet with shallot, butter it well, lay 
tomatoes in it, filling each half with bread crumbs, minced ham, 
little parsley minced and sweet herbs, pepper, salt, place a small 
piece butter on each half tomato, bake 15 minutes, when done serve 
on round slices of buttered toast. 

TOMATOES WITH MACARONI OR RICE 

Cook 1 can tomatoes with 1 bay leaf, little thyme, salt, pepper, 
1 cup gravy, 20 minutes, when to a pulp press through sieve, have 
ready either some cooked macaroni or rice, put in a pudding dish, 
first a layer of macaroni, then bits butter, then tomato pulp, 
then a layer of macaroni, and so on until dish is full, place on top 
plenty grated Parmesan cheese, bake to a nice brown, serve in 
same dish. 

TOMATOES BAKED 

Cut Yi dozen tomatoes in halves, remove pips, fill in with a 
mixture of bread crumbs, pepper and salt, place pieces of butter 
on each half, lay them on a well buttered tin, bake in a slow oven 
about }/% hour; serve either hot or cold. 

TOMATO FRITTERS 

One quart stewed tomatoes, x /i teaspoon soda, 1 egg, stir in 
flour until a stiff batter, drop in hot lard from spoon until a nice 
brown and serve hot. 

PEPPERS STUFFED WITH MEAT 

Prepare as above omitting tomatoes; use any kind of finely 
chopped meat; can stuff with rice, shrimps or mashed potato. 

95 



TOMATO ON TOAST 

Rub 1 can tomatoes through sieve, place in a stew pan, season 
with butter, pepper, salt or sugar to taste; let cook 10 minutes, 
then add 1 pint sweet cream; pour all over some nicely browned 
butter toast, serve at once. 

PEPPERS 

(pauline) 

Prepare green peppers by cutting off tops where stem about x /i- 
inch, remove fibres and seeds, fill peppers with tomatoes, cracker 
crumbs and seeds, butter, pepper, salt, place tops back on with 
toothpicks, let bake 30 minutes, basting with butter and water. 

GREEN PEPPER AND EGGS 

(pauline) 

Remove seed, chop 3 peppers very fine, place in spider with 
1 cup water, 1 teaspoon butter and a little salt when water is 
evaporated add 4 eggs, scramble the whole mixture, serve at once; 
fine; nice for breakfast or luncheons. Green peppers placed on the 
top of cabbage gives it a nice flavor when boiled. 

PEAS 

Shell early June peas, place in stew pan with (a few shells) 
salt, little sugar, sprig of mint, let cook 20 minutes, pour off water, 
remove shells and mint, season with butter, pepper and salt. 
Some add cream. If canned can simply add butter, pepper and 
salt; cook 5 minutes. 

PEAS AND CARROTS 

Scrape and cut into dice 6 good sized carrots, let cook until 
tender in enough water to cover; when done pour off water, add 1 
can peas well drained, 1 cup milk, place on stove again, mix a 
teaspoon flour with a teaspoon butter, add when milk boils, cook 
5 minutes, add salt and pepper to taste; peas can be used with 
mushrooms as an entree; can use as a garnish around lamb chops 
or mutton chops in a platter; can be used for soup or salad. 

SALSIFY (OYSTER PLANT) 

Scrape and cut roots into short lengths, throw them into cold 
water and vinegar as they are being done (to prevent turning dark), 
boil them in salted water until tender, drain them, toss into sauce- 
pan with a piece butter, few drops lemon juice, minced parsley, 
salt and serve; or can omit lemon juice, add 1 cup milk, 1 teaspoon 
flour and cream. 

96 



SALSIFY OR OYSTER PLANT FRITTERS 

Prepare as above, when done mash 1 egg, 1 teaspoon butter, 1 
teaspoon flour, salt and pepper, make in balls, drop in hot fat, 
serve at once on a hot platter. Can use water into which the salsify 
was cooked; press plant through collander, add flour, salt, pepper, 
butter, cook 5 minutes; when ready to serve add 1 cup milk or Y2 
cup cream; an excellent soup. 

OKRA STEWED 

Cut off both ends of young okra, let stand in cold water x /i hour, 
then place it in a stew pan in boiling salt water to cook 10 to 15 
minutes, drain, add cream, butter, pepper and salt. 

OKRA GUMBO 

One pound okra, ^2 pound corn, Yi can tomatoes, teaspoon salt, 
2 tablespoons butter, dash cayenne pepper, let all cook 20 minutes, 
serve at once. 

ESCALLOPED OKRA AND TOMATOES 

Cook 15 minutes together 1 pint tomatoes and 2 pints okra, 
1 teaspoon salt and a dash cayenne, then pour into dish, cover with 
Betsy Ross crumbs, bits of butter, bake Y2 hour, slice okra very thin. 

MUSHROOMS (STEWED) 

Gather those with red gills, cut off that part of stem which 
grew in the earth, wash, take the skin from the top, put in a stew 
pan with some salt, stew them until tender, thicken with 1 spoonful 
butter and browned flour; can broil them instead of steaming. 

MUSHROOMS A LA CREME 

Cut mushrooms in pieces, shake them over a brisk fire in butter, 
seasoned with salt, a very little nutmeg, and 1 bunch herbs, when 
they are done enough and butter nearly all wasted away, take out 
herbs, add yolk of 1 egg beaten up in some good cream; make very 
hot and serve. 

MUSHROOMS BAKED 

Pare tops, cut off part of stalk, wipe well with cloth and a little 
salt, then put them in a baking dish and put a piece butter on each 
mushroom, little pepper, bake 20 minutes or Y2 hour, serve hot 
with the gravy poured over mushrooms. 

PARSNIPS (AMERICAN) 

Scrape and boil parsnips, then cut each lengthwise in quarters, 
fry them very brown and dish in pairs. 

97 



VEGETABLE MARROW STEWED 

Boil, divide it lengthwise into two and serve on toast and melted 
butter; or when nearly boiled divide it as above and stew gently 
in gravy, using young ones not exceeding 6 inches in length 

SWEET POTATOES BOILED 

Wash, boil until tender 6 good sized potatoes, serve hot with 
jackets on with butter and salt 

SWEET POTATOES BAKED 

Wash, scrape, lay in baking pan around roast pork, cook until 
tender, basting often. 

CANDIED SWEET POTATOES 

Make a syrup by boiling Yi cup sugar, 4 tablespoons water 
3 minutes, add 1 tablespoon butter, pare and split in halves sweet 
potatoes, put in baking dish, pour over syrup; cook 25 minutes or 
30 minutes in a moderate oven, basting often. 

SWEET POTATOES FRIED 

Slice raw sweet potatoes 3^-inch thick, dip in sugar, fry in hot 
fat or butter; easily burned so watch carefully. 

PARSNIPS FRICASSEED 

Scrape, boil in milk until soft, then cut them lengthwise into 
pieces 2 or 3 inches long, simmer in a white sauce made of 2 table- 
spoons broth, piece mace, }/ 2 cup cream, a piece butter, Y teaspoon 
flour, pepper and salt to taste. 

PARSNIPS 

Scrape, wash, split in lengthwise halves, lay in baking pan, add 
enough water to just cover, put in pan and over parsnips bits butter, 
little nutmeg, salt, sugar and pepper, bake in a moderate oven 
until water is evaporated and the parsnips are a nice brown. 

AUX POMMES (JEWISH) 

W r ash well red cabbage, put in sauce pan, cover with water, 
peel, halve and core 3 or 4 moderate sized apples and add to cabbage, 
a piece butter size of walnut, salt, pepper, 3 or 4 cloves, cook gently 
3 hours, when ready to serve add 1 dessert spoon vinegar, 1 of red 
currant jelly, sufficient flour to thicken sauce, pour over and send to 
table. 

98 



PARSNIPS 

Scrape, wash, boil, mash, season with butter, pepper and salt, 
make into little cakes, roll in flour and brown in hot lard. 

POTATOES 

The potato ranks first in importance in the vegetable line. At 
one time there were only seven ways of preparing it, now some 
writers give sixteen ways. 

Potatoes can be simply washed, boiled with or without jackets, 
baked with or without jackets, fried or mashed. 

POTATOES STUFFED (SPECIAL BAKED) 

First wash, remove all bad eyes, grease 6 medium sized potatoes, 
bake from 30 minutes to 1 hour, remove from oven, cut off one end, 
scoop out inside, mash it up with 1 tablespoon butter, little salt 
and pepper, 3^ cup cream or milk, put mixture back in shell, put 
on ends, set in oven 10 minutes, serve at once. 




"SPECIAL" BAKED POTATOES 



POTATOES MASHED 



Pare very thin, cook in boiling water 15 or 20 minutes, pour 
off water, mash, add 1 teaspoon butter, salt to taste, 1 cup hot 
milk, beat 3 or 4 minutes with spoon until very light, serve hot. 
Can place on a buttered baking tin, sprinkle over with egg and 
bread crumbs, bake to a nice brown, or can be used for cakes. 



BROWNED POTATO 

Pare, brush potato with bacon or any good fat, sprinkle with 
salt and pepper, place in pan, put in oven to bake from 45 minutes 
to 1 hour, basting often with the brush. 

99 



POTATOES A LA PAULINE 

Prepare potatoes and drop in deep hot fat as in a French fry. 

POTATOES ESCALLOPED 

Pare and cut into cubes 6 potatoes, place in pudding dish a 
layer potatoes, butter, salt, pepper and little flour then a layer of 
potatoes, butter, pepper, salt and so on until all have been used, 
use enough cold milk to cover, place in oven, bake slowly 1 hour, 
can if desired sprinkle grated cheese over, called au gratin potatoes. 




POTATOES "A LA PAULINE" 



CREAMED POTATOES 



Cut in cubes, cook 15 minutes, pour off water, add butter and 
and sprinkle over chopped parsley; can make a white sauce, then 
sprinkle over parsley. 

LYONNAISE POTATOES 

Place 1 tablespoon butter in frying pan, add 1 chopped onion, 
cook until tender, add chopped boiled potato, season with salt, 
pepper and a teaspoon chopped parsley, let fry 10 minutes; serve 
hot. 

100 



Miscellaneous 



SPAGHETTI 

Chop and fry 3 slices bacon and 1 large onion, have ready Y2 
box spaghetti cooked, add to onion and bacon, x /± spoon cayenne, 
Yl teaspoon paprika, 1 teaspoon sugar, ^ teaspoon salt and 1 can 
of Gibb's tomato paste, 3 times the can of water, cook all together 
Y2 hour or longer, stirring to prevent burning; nice for luncheon or 
evening; can add a little grated cheese; serve with Iten's crackers. 

CRANBERRY SHERBET 

One quart cranberries, wash, mash, press through collander 
(do not cook) ; have the regular syrup for ice, mix, freeze, serve in 
sherbet glasses at a course dinner. 

Can use Betsy Ross bread crumbs or Grape Nuts for escalloped 
tomatoes, oysters, fish, baked apples, by coring and filling. 



Beverages 



3 D's DOG DAY'S DRINK 

Use large goblet, fill Y full lemon ice, 1 bottle soda water, mix 
and drink. 

DRAUGHT LEMONADE 

One lemon sliced, 4 ounces loaf sugar, Y pint boiling water, 
mix well, serve with a little nutmeg in a large bar glass. 

EGG SOUR 

One tablespoon fine sugar, several lumps ice, juice 1 lemon, 1 
egg, shake well, grate nutmeg on top. 

EGG NOGG— GENERAL U. S. GRANT'S STYLE 

Two teaspoons powdered sugar, 1 egg, 4 small pieces ice, fill 
glass with cider, mix well, serve in large bar glass. 

EGG LEMONADE 

One tablespoon fine sugar, 1 egg, 5 dashes lemon juice, % glass 
shaved ice, fill, stir well, strain into a large glass. 

101 



MILK-SHAKE 

Two-thirds glass milk, 2 tablespoons fruit juice, 1 teaspoon 
sugar, fill with cracked ice, shake well, serve in large glass. 

AFTER DINNER COFFEE— BLACK 

Four tablespoons coffee, white and shell of 1 egg, pinch salt, 
mix with 1 cup cold water, place in pot, cook 5 minutes, then add 
4 cups boiling water, boil 5 minutes more, remove immediately 
from fire, add a few drops cold water to settle; serve in after dinner 
cups. 

TEA 

Never boil tea. Have water boiling, pour over 1 teaspoon tea, 
2 cups boiling water, ready to serve. 

SWEET SHELLS FOR FRUIT OR ICE CREAM 

One cup sugar, 2 eggs, Y2 cup flour, beat yolks 5 minutes, add 
}/2 the sugar, beat whites well, add the other half of sugar, mix 
flour and all lightly, bake in greased gem pans, when cool and crisp 
break in center and put in fruit or ice cream. 

DATE BREAD 

One cup corn meal, 1 cup whole wheat flour, 1 cup white flour, 
13^ teaspoons salt, 34 teaspoon soda, 5 teaspoons baking powder, 
4 cups molasses, 1 cup dates or raisins, Y2 CU P nuts, and 134 cups 
milk, mix all together, let stand 15 minutes, bake slowly 50 minutes. 

SMALL SOUP DUMPLINGS 

Butter size of walnut, cream butter, add whole egg and 1 yolk, 
salt, bit of nutmeg, 3 teaspoons flour, stir 5 minutes, place on ice 
1 hour, drop from spoon into boiling broth, sprinkle with chopped 
parsley. 

CAN MILK— WHIPPED 

Boil can 5 minutes, remove, cool quickly, stand on ice until 
ready for whipping, open can, place in a chilled bowl, whip with 
Dover egg beater, flavor to taste, follow directions carefully, 6 
ounce can (Wilson's) will make 13^ pints. Can flavor by adding 
a few marshmallows, put in mold, pack in salt and ice 2 hours; fine 
mouse. 

CHOCOLATE SAUCE FOR ICE CREAM 

Four squares chocolate melted, add 13^ cups of sugar, salt to 
taste, 13^ cups boiling water, boil 5 minutes, add 2 drops of vanilla, 
after removing from fire place in a cool place. 

102 



POTATO DOUGHNUTS— GOOD 

Two cups flour, 1 cup sugar, % cups each of sour milk and cream, 
3^ cup shortening, Yl CU P mashed potatoes, 1 teaspoon soda, J^ 
teaspoon baking powder, salt, vanilla, cut roll with }/± to x /l cups 
flour on board, fry in deep fat. 

PARFAIT 

One cup sugar, 4 eggs, x /2 CU P hot water 1 pint thick cream 
(whipped), \ x /i teaspoons mapeline, put sugar and water in double 
boiler, cook 5 minutes, add eggs (previously beaten), cook until 
thick, stirring constantly, set away to cool, then add whipped 
cream, place in mold, pack in ice and salt for 3 hours. 




PAULINE'S "FIVE FRIENDS" 

Paring Knife Spatula Carving Knife 

Egg Beater Whip Spoon 

CHILLI CON CARNI 

Cut into pieces 2 young chickens, saute in bacon fat, remove 
seeds and veins from 8 chilli peppers, cover with boiling water, 
cook until soft, mash and rub through a sieve, add 1 teaspoon salt, 
1 onion chopped fine, 2 cloves of garlic, pour over chicken, cook 
until tender, then thicken sauce with 3 tablespoons each flour and 
butter, canned pimentoes may be used in place of peppers; 

103 



TAPIOCA PUDDING (STEAMED) 

Five tablespoons tapioca, 1 pound boiling water, 1 pound 
each raisins, dates, figs, chopped a little, Yi cup sugar, cook 5 
minutes, then place in molds, steam 2 hours, serve with hard sauce. 

SPANISH BUN 

(MRS. A. L. WELSH) 

Cream \ x /i cups sugar, Y± cup butter, 4 eggs beaten separately, 
whites last, 1 cup milk, 2Yi cups flour, x /i teaspoon each cloves, 
cinnamon and allspice, 2 teaspoons baking powder. 

MEXICAN PINEAPPLE 

One can Mexican pineapple cut in % in slices, put all in dish, 
pour over 1 pint champagne or orange juice, cover dish, stand 2 
hours, serve 1 slice on plate, sprinkle with powdered sugar and a 
marschino cherry in center of each slice. 

MEXICAN RICE 

Wash, dry in sun 1 cup rice, saute in 2 teaspoons lard until a 
delicate yellow, then add 1 onion, 1 large tomato chopped fine 
and a clove of garlic, cook 2 minutes, add 1 pint of water, salt to 
taste, 2 chilli peppers, washed, cooked and pressed through sieve, 
allow the whole to simmer until rice is perfectly dry and every 
grain is separate and a delicate red color, serve as a vegetable. 



Household Hints 



The woman who is an adept with the needle, the cooking utensils, 
or the dressmaking form is possessed of knowledge that should be 
recognized just as is the knowledge required to judge a picture, 
entertain in a drawing room or speak half a dozen languages. 

To have pickles remain sound and firm add grape leaves to them, 
in proportion to x /i bushel grape leaves to one barrel of pickles. 

Place a slice or two of horse radish in each jar of pickle. This 
will prevent rising of scum. The horseradish will soon sink to the 
bottom taking all the scum with it leaving the vinegar perfectly 
clear. 

To pickle artichokes hard, cover with red pepper and vinegar. 
To have them soft, let them freeze after gathering them, before 
putting in vinegar. 

Salt applied dry with a soft cloth will remove the egg stains from 
silver. 

104 



To prevent doors from squeaking, oil the hinges with a drop or 
so from machine oil can, or a few drops kerosene. 

Pulverize J/£ ounce each cloves, cedar, and rhubarb, sprinkle 
in the chest drawers, trunks or clothes press: will prevent moths 
from entering in clothes. 

Make into a powder 1 ounce each cloves, caraway seed, allspice 
and four ounces dried rose leaves, mix with this one ounce common 
salt (dry), put into little bags; is good thing for linen. 

To clean hard wood floors add 3 tablespoons sweet milk to a 
pail of warm water (not hot), wipe up with a clean soft rag. 

Save all silk pieces from old underwear; good for dusting highly 
polished furniture by adding a few drops of parafin oil to cloth. 

Save tops of old stockings, place them in a mop stick makes a 
splendid dust mop for floors. 

In order to make perfect jelly always purchase the fruit under 
ripe, owing to its containing a starchy substance which is necessary, 
called pectin. This substance is lessened as the fruit ripens. 

Rubbing sweetoil occasionally on gunmetal shoes, rubbing in 
well, will help and preserve them. 

To destroy ants use bisulphide by placing it on a stick and trac- 
ing to the holes, taking care not to breathe the fumes, or can use 
kerosene which not so good. 

Rub sweet cream or oil into leather, prevents cracking of patent 
leather. 

CALICOES 

To prevent calicoes from fading add 1 teaspoon of sugar of 
lead to a pail of water and soak 15 minutes. 

Add 1 tablespoon turpentine to each boiler of clothes, makes 
them white. 

After sweeping floors dirt is taken up on dustpan ; never burn or 
throw away until you have gone thoroughly through it as one 
often finds buttons, pins, etc. of a very great value. 

Never wipe walls with a rag over broom ; leaves traces of straws, 
and paper hangers can never make the paper look clean; remove 
cobwebs carefully. 

Salt sprinkled over rugs or carpets 1 cup to 8 rooms, before 
sweeping brightens the colors. 

Remove paints from window panes by applying turpentine. 

Clean windows about every two weeks with Bon Ami. 

HEALTH HINTS 

Place a newspaper over chest, when riding on train prevents 
train or seasickness. 

Place a newspaper under the coat over chest prevents taking 
cold when riding and facing a cold wind. 

105 



Apply cold water to the throat, chest, arms and shoulders in 
winter; is the best preventive for colds. 

If one will add 1 tablespoon Epsom salts, and 1 tablespoon 
pulverized alumn to a bath it will remove all soreness from bowels, 
back and limbs. 

Never read in twilight as it is a ruination to eyes. 

Bathing the eyes in a .little warm, weak salt water removes a 
great deal of inflammation. 

By taking the scraping of an Irish potato place it on a soft, 
white cloth, apply to eyes, will remove soreness and fever. 

Tea leaves placed on a cloth applied to the eyes, I find very 
helpful. 

Never play with the eyes; if these home remedies do not reach 
the case immediately consult a physician or a good oculist. 

Always keep your teeth in repair, will prevent many a doctor's 
bill, for bad teeth effect the stomach. 

Use Dr. Prey's Ongaline to remove stains from finger nails, ink 
stains or fruit stains from clothing. 

Never crowd a No. 6 foot into a No. 4 shoe; it causes corns, 
bunions, ill temper, etc., affecting the whole system. 

BEAUTY HINTS 

Stick to your favorite cream for complexion, too many different 
ones are injurious. 

Use Delatone to remove hair from face. 

Always before breakfast drink 1 cup of hot water, in which a 
few drops of lemon juice are placed. 

One teaspoon lemon juice, 1 tablespoon water, added to 10 
cents worth of glycerine, makes an excellent lotion for hands; apply 
at night. 

Place 1 teaspoon vinegar in water where hair is shampooed, 
rinse thoroughly with 2 waters, the last to be cold. 

A glass of hot milk on retiring will produce sleep, quieting nerves. 

CARE OF CHILDREN 

All parents desire that their children shall be strong and well 
and are willing to sacrifice anything to attain this end. The 
trouble usually arises from not knowing how to care or what to do 
for them. The regularity of the child's health and welfare belongs, 
in a great measure, to the mother. Why? Because she regulates 
its food, clothing and to a great extent its surroundings, upon all 
of which depends its good health. "Mother-wit" must be used in 
caring for infants: A baby should not be fed any solid food until 

106 



after it has produced or cut teeth, because it cannot masticate the 
solid food, which lays in the little stomach, causing indigestion. 

Never allow small children to eat salads, nor drink coffee nor 
tea or eat rich pastry. In my travels through the culinary art I 
have noticed in so many families where little children are fed such 
articles as hardly grown ups could digest. Then the child is sallow, 
haggard looking, thin and irritable, and the mother stands around 
lamenting over the child's condition. 

Give simple but plenty food such as good milk, cereals cooked or 
dry, bread, butter, cooked and fresh fruits, jellies and jams, health- 
ful, fattening and nutritious, good bed to rest in, plenty of warm 
clothing in winter; keep them very clean by giving baths frequently; 
plenty of out-door exercise and one wouldn't wish for a more health- 
ful child. See that your children's environment is of the best. Teach 
them to confide altogether in mother. Place them on their honor, 
for if you show it to a child that you mistrust him he will become 
very untrustworthy. Make home bright and cheerful, allowing 
them to have a few friends; give them parties every now and then. 
Fridays are always suitable, owing to close of school. They need 
not be expensive, "Taffy-Pullings," an old and revived custom or 
can make fudge, creams, etc. It brightens their minds and they, 
too, will love home, Ma and Dad because they are so good to them. 

What child is it who does not look forward to Gala Days? 
Christmas, Fourth of July, Hallowe'en, Valentine and birthdays. 
Hallowe'en, strip the house of rugs and carpets, replace with saw- 
dust, decorate with jack o' lanterns, made of pumpkins, leaves and 
fall flowers made from yellow and green crepe papers; have plenty 
of corn-poppers on hand. Now with plenty of candy, syrup, let 
them pop corn, make balls, candy, crack nuts and have a good time 
in general. 

For boys parties have nice sandwiches, chocolate ice cream and 
assorted cookies. For girls, white cake with candles on for birthdays 
candies, nuts, mouse or ice cream and inexpensive souveniers. 

If you would be happy as a child please one. 

Innocent amusements transform tears into rainbows because 
amusement to children is like rain to flowers and a happy child is 
most likely to make an honest man or a woman. "I would rather 
be called a children's friend than the world's king or queen." 



107 



Menu 



NO. 1 BREAKFAST 

SHREDDED WHEAT BISCUITS CREAM 

POACHED EGGS ON TOAST 

STRIPS BACON FRIED 

MUFFINS MASTERMAN'S COFFEE 



No. 2 BREAKFAST 

BAKED APPLES CREAM 

CREAMED COD FISH ON TOAST OR SHREDDED WHEAT BISCUITS 

SOFT BOILED EGGS HOT BISCUITS MASTERMAN'S COFFEE 



ENGLISH BREAKFAST 

(very formal) 

grape fruit cantaloupe 

boiled fresh mackerel 

trench fried potatoes potatoes a la pauline 

fried chicken with gravy 

hot biscuits parkerhouse rolls 

raspberry sherbet — small cakes masterman's coffee 



LUNCHEON 
(Green and White) 

CREAM OF CELERY SOUP BREAD STICKS 

FISH PUDDING CUCUMBER JELLY 

SMALL ROUND POTATOES CREAMED CHOPPED PARSLEY 

LAMB CHOPS PEAS 

BEAD LETTUCE SALAD FRENCH DRESSING 

NEAPOLITAN ICE CREAM 

WHITE CAKE GREEN AND WHITE ICING 

COFFEE CREAM SUGAR 



LUNCHEON No. 2 
(Yellow) 

BANANAS ORANGES PEACHES 

SERVED IN SMALL ORANGE BASKET 

FISH AU GRATIN 

SANDWICHES TIED WITH YELLOW RIBBON 

CAULIFLOWER HOLLANDAISE SAUCE 

BONED CHICKEN IN JELLY 

EGG SALAD MAYONNAISE DRESSING 

XEMON OR ORANGE ICE POUND CAKE 

YELLOW MINTS YELLOW FAVORS NUTS 

COFFEE 

108 



M 



enu 



DINNER No. 1 ' 

fruit cocktail tomato bisque croutons 

roast beef — sweet potatoes or mashed white 

corn or turnips creamed 

beet salad 

Pauline's favorite pudding 

black coffee 



DINNER No. 2 

oyster cocktail bouillon clam 

turkey with dressing — gravy 

CRANBERRY SHERBET MASHED POTATOES 

BUTTERED ONIONS COMBINATION SALAD 

ENGLISH PLUM PUDDING 

COFFEE MINTS NUTS 



DINNER No. 3 

KORNLET SOUP 

BAKED COD OR SHAD — PIQUANT JELLY — POTATOES 

LEG OF LAMB MINT SAUCE PEAS 

CHEESE BALL SALAD CHEESE STRAWS 

ICE CREAM SERVED IN CANTALOUPE HALVES 

MINTS OLIVES RADISHES 

PICKLES COFFEE 



GOOD OLD SOUTHERN DINNER 

VEGETABLE SOUP 

BOILED HAM, THEN BAKED PLAIN BOILED POTATOES 

BOILED CABBAGE QUARTERED TOMATOES 

ONIONS AND CUCUMBERS SLICED ON LETTUCE LEAF 

FRENCH DRESSING 

CORN BREAD BUTTERMILK 

APPLE DUMPLINGS HARD SAUCE 

BUTTERNUT COFFEE 



109 



MEMORANDUM 



110 



MEMORANDUM 



111 



MEMORANDUM 



112 




Scott=Omaha Tent & Awning Co. 

15th and Howard Streets (Opp. Auditorium) 

"TENT MAKERS TO THE WEST" 

TENTS AND AWNINGS 




STACK COVERS 
PORCH CURTAIN'S 
SLICKER CLOTHING 



CAMP STOVES 
CAMP STOOLS 
CAMP CHAIRS 



AUTO CAMPING SUPPLIES 

" All Those Handy Fixin's " 



Good Eating for Everybody 

A Real HEALTH FOOD of Guaranteed Purity 



PACKED IN 

TRIPLE -SEALED 

PACKAGES 




mm sosweamy «r mmm 

ailTON -OKLAHOMA CITY- OKAHA" 



SNOW WHITE 
BAKERY 
PRODUCT 



Just try a package of these fine flavored health biscuit. All 
your family will enjoy them. Recommended for children 
of all ages, for old persons and invalids. These biscuit com- 
bine agreeably with practically every kind of liquid food. 
There's a big difference in Graham Biscuit, so be sure to 
get ITEN'S — fully guaranteed. 

Your grocer has Iten's Graham Biscuit, or can get them 
for you quickly 



David Cole 

Creamery 
Company 



SOLE OWNERS AND 
MANUFACTURERS OF 



Jbietotlb 

Buttermilk 
potober & 



Phone Webster 241 



R. H. Bobbins & 
Company 

GROCERIES and MEATS 



EVERYTHING 

STRICTLY FRESH 
TRY US AND SEE 



We Deliver Anywhere 



1411 N. 24th St., OMAHA, NEB. 



Use 

TIP 
TOP 

Bread 



Need any (^ fs^^r D 
seeds that VJlU W i 

See that they 
come from the 

Nebraska Seed Co. 

1613 Howard Street 

OMAHA NEBRASKA 

Our line of Poultry Supplies is complete 



"// my service pleases you tell 
others, if not tell me" 

North Side 
Taxi 

J. D. LEWIS, Proprietor 

FUNERALS ^WEDDINGS 
TAXI BY HOUR OR TRIP 
SERVICE DAY AND NIGHT 



STAND PHONE 
Webster 149 

When not at stand please call residence 
Webster 949 



Stand : 

2414 No. Twenty - fourth St. 

OMAHA, NEB. 



OMAHA 
PRINTING 
COMPANY 

Printers, Designers 

Lithographers 

Bookbinders 

Stationery 

Office Supplies 

Telephone 1A C 
DOUGLAS <****> 

Thirteenth and Farnam Sts. 

Omaha, Neb. 



latfmff 

(Eflinjratty 

:: MASTER:: 
Confectioners 



: Egyptian : 
Chocolates 



(Eumtng #imtH 



Alhambra Theater 

TWENTY- 
FOURTHI 
PARKER 
STREETS 

Plays the 
Best First 

You're Welcome 

House of Courtesy 



WE FEATURE 



Advo Products 

EXTRACTS, SPICES, CATSUPS 
SAUCES, CEREALS, FRUITS 
CANNED GOODS, COFFEES 
TEAS AND PANCAKE FLOUR 



a 



Quality Supreme" 



McCORD=BRADY CO. 



I. 

Oh! hour of all hours, the most blessed on earth. 
We may live without poetry, music and art ; 
We may live without conscience, and live without heart; 
We may live without friends, we may live without books; 
But civilized man cannot live without cooks. 

II. 

He may live without books — what is knowledge but grieving? 
He may live without hope, what is hope but deceiving? 
He may live without love, what is passion but pining? 
But where is the man that can live without dining? 

OWEN MEREDITH. 



£it 





rp 



& r**. 



%->•«* 







*•£& 






* 



<j%^- 




J£* 



rvSvZ^ysv 



LIBRARY OF CONGRESS 




