<x 



s If 



r^s 



'■) 



/ 



V? 7/' 



P^ 



yM 



^"373 
■ 03 



The Milky Way 
to Economy 



Compiled by 
GERTRUDE FORD DANIEL 



PRICE TWENTY-FIVE CENTS 



97 



X o7Y 



To the \yomen of 
America 




T WANT to say that THE MILKY 
A WAY TO ECONOMY is a con- 
scientious endeavor to bring to your 
notice the value of milk. 

It is in the spirit of helpfulness 
and cooperation that I have made 
this compilation, after observing the 
benefit of milk as a food. ^ . 

The recipes and reading matter 
included in this book have been 
gathered from various sources. 

Credit is due especially to the 
U. S. Department of Agriculture. 

Gertrude Ford Daniel 



Copyright 

Gertrude Ford Daniel 

1919 



TABLE of CONTENTS 



ARTICLES 



What is Milk 3 

Milk a Man's Drink ► 5 

An Excellent Food for the Kidneys 5 

Milk as a Food 9 

Waste Not — Want Not 15 

What Authorities Say About Milk 15 

Proper Eating and Plenty of Nutrition 19 

Three Rules for Wise Buying 19 

Milk as a Food Investment 21 

How to Use Milk 23 

Don't Let Milk Spoil 23 

Refrigerators 30 

An Iceless Refrigerator '. 30 

A Plea for Clean Bottles 31 

Care of Milk in the Home 31 

Needful Co-operation 37 

A Word About Butter 37 

Milk the Best Food we have 40 

Amount of Lime in Milk 43 

Meals for Children 45 

Scientific Milk Terms 51 



RECIPES 

Page 

Soups 4 

Stews and Chowders 6 

Fish 7 

Souffles 8 

Meat and Meat Substitutes 10 

Sauces and Gravies 12 

Salad Dressing 12 

Vegetables 13 

Bread (sweet milk) 16 

Bread (sour milk) 18 

Muffins, Gems and Rolls (sweet milk) 20 

l^uffins, Gems and Rolls (sour milk) 24 

Cakes and Cookies (sweet milk) 24 

Icings and Fillings for Cakes 28 

Pies 29 

Puddings 29 

Custards 33 

Pancakes and Doughnuts 34 

Directions for Whipping Cream 35 

Milk and Cereal Dishes 35 

Eggs 36 

Frozen Desserts 36 

Cottage Cheese 39 

Cheese Dishes 44 

Drinks \ 49 

A Few Milk Facts 50 

Candy 51 

©CI.A536J10 



OCT -9 191^ 



THE MILKY WAY TO ECONOMY 



WHAT IS MILK? 



Milk is one of the miost important food sources the human race 
possesses. For the proper nourishment of the child it is absolutely in- 
dispensable and its use should be kept up in the diet as long as possible. 
Not only does it contain all the essential food elements in the most 
available form for ready digestion, but recent scientific discoveries show 
it to be especially rich in certain peculiar properties that alone render 
growth possible. This essehtial quality makes it also of special value 
in the sick room. 

For the purpose of stimulating growth, and especially in children, 
butter fat and other constituents of milk have no substitutes. There- 
fore, every parent owes to himself and to his family the duty of provid- 
ing the requisite amount of milk, butter, cheese and other dairy pro- 
ducts. When milk increased in price as well as all other articles of 
food many famSlies among the poor were found giving their children 
tea and coffee instead of milk. Such methods of feeding fail to nourish 
the child properly. 

DON'T THROW OUT SKIM OR SOUR MILK 

Clean skim milk is a valuable food, containing all the nourishing 
elements of whole milk except the fat or cream. It is useful in cooking 
cereals, soups, sauces, cocoa, etc., and is a palatable, nourishing beverage. 

Sour milk and buttermilk can be used with soda in baking hot 
breads, or sour milk can be easily turned into cottage cheese, or clabber. 
Sour cream is a good shortening for cakes and cookies, and is useful for 
salad dressings and gravies for meat. 

"MILK— THE BEST FOOD WE HAVE," issued by the U. S. De- 
partment of Agriculture, is an expression of the government's pur- 
pose to foster the liberal use of dairy products in the United States. 

Give your children milk, a quart a day for every child, if possible. 
A pint without fail. 

Plenty of milk will help give all your children, big and little, the 
chance for health they ought to have. 

Save on other things if you must, but not on milk, your child's best 
food. 

Spread among the mothers the knowledge that milk is our best 
food. 

ANOTHER OFFICIAL STATEMENT ADVISES: 

"Buy at least a pint a day for every member of your family." 
It is fully appreciated that prices of milk must bear some relation- 
ship to other farm products, and that in order to prevent depression of 
the dairy industry, a rise in the cost of producing milk must be accom- 
panied by a rise in the price received for it. Even at an apparently high 
price milk is a chea(p food for children, and efforts are now being directed 
toward acquainting the public with this fact. The liberal use of milk is 
necessary for the best nourishment of the people and especially for 
young children. 

(Continued on Page 5) 



THE MILKY WAY TO ECONOMY 
SOUPS 



Cream of Asparagus Soup. 

One pint of asparagus pulp, one and 
one half pints of chicken stock, one ta- 
blespoon of butter, two tablespoons of 
flour, salt and pepper and one cup of 
cream. After asparagus is boiled very 
soft, press through a sieve, then meas- 
ure. Dilute with the stock. Melt the 
butter, blend in flour and seasoning and 
add to soup. Place on fire and add the 
cream. Beat with an egg beater and 
serve very hot. 
Ginger Cream Soup. 

Four tablespoons of butter, three 
tablespoons of flour, three cups of milk, 
two spoons of salt, one-eighth teaspoon 
of pepper, one teaspoon of ginger, one 
eup of cooked vegetable (as carrots, 
peas, celery). Mak& a white sauce as 
follows: Melt the butter, add the flour 
and ginger; cook until it bubbles; add 
milk gradually, stirring constantly. 
When all the milk is added season with 
salt and pepper and add the vegetables, 
chopped fine or forced through a sieve. 
Heat and serve with croutons. Left- 
over vegetables may be utilized in 
making this soup. 
Potato Soup with Carrots. 

Three medium-sized potatoes, 2 cups 
water, 4 tablespoons flour, soup greens, 
2 slices of onion, sprigs af parsley, 1% 
cups milk, 1 carrot, 1 Vz tablespoons fat, 
salt and pepper, stalk of celery. 

Wask and pare potatoes. Cook m 
boiling salted water uatil they are soft. 
Rub through colander. Use water in 
which potatoes were cooked to make up 
the 2 cups of water. Cook carrot cut 
m cubes in boiling water unti'l soft; 
drain. Scald milk with onion, celery 
and parsley. Add milk and water to 
potatoes. Melt fat in saucepan, add 
flour and cook for three minutes. 
Slowly add soup, stirring constantly. 
Boil for one minute, season with salt 
and pepper. Add cubes of carrots and 
serve. 
Cabbage and Potato Soup. 

Half pint boiled cabbage, finely 
minced; 3 medium-sized potatoes, .1^/^ 
level tablespoons butter, drippings or 
other fat; 1 teaspoon salt, % teaspoon 
pepper, IV2 pints milk, whole or skim 
milk, boiling hot. 

Peel the potatoes, cover with boiling 
water and cook until tender — usually 
thirty minutes. Pour off the water and 
mash until fine and light; add the cab- 
bage, butter and seasoning; then slow- 
ly add the hot milk; boil up well. If a 
thinner soup is required, the amount of 
milk can be increased. If liked, an on- 
ion cut up fine and cooked in a little 



water may be added to the soup to give 
additional flavor, or grated cheese may 
be served with it. Kale, turnips or a 
mixture of vegetables can be substi- 
tuted for the cabbage; thi» is a good 
way to use up left-over vegetables. 

General Recipe for Milk-Vegetable 
Soups. 

Two cupfuls of milk, 1 tablespoon- 
ful of flour, 1 tablespoonful of butter, 
salt, 2-0 cupful thoroughly cooked 
vegetable, finely chopped, mashed or 
put thi'ough sieve. 

Thicken the milk with the flour as for 
milk gravy; add the other ingredients. 
If the soup is too thick, as it may be if 
the vegetable is starchy, thin it with 
milk. 

Milk and Cheese Soup. 

Three cups milk, or part milk and 
part stock, 1 Vz tablespoons flour, 1 cup 
grated cheese, salt and paprika. 

Thicken the milk with the flour, 
cooking thoroughly. This is best done 
in a double boiler, with frequent stir- 
rings. When ready to serve, add the 
cheese and the seasoning. 

The protein in this soup is equal in 
amount to that in five-sixths of a pound 
of beef of average composition ; its fuel 
value is higher than that of a pound of 
beef. 

Green Pea Soup. 

One quart peas, 3 pints water, 1 
quart milk, 1 onion, 2 tablespoons but- 
ter oic drippings, 1 tablespoan flour, 3 
level teaspoons salt, % teaspoon pep- 
per. 

Put the peas in a stewpan Avith the 
boiling water and onion and cook until 
tender, which will be about half an 
hour. Pour off the water, saving for 
use later. Mash the peas fine, then 
add the watei' in which they were 
boiled and rub through a puree sieve. 
Return to the saucepan, add flour and 
butter together; then salt and pepper. 
Now gradually add the milk, which 
must be boiling h»t. Beat well and 
cook ten minutes, stirring frequently. 

Lima Bean Soup. 

1 cup dried lima beans, 2% quarts 
cold water, 1 pint milk (whole or 
skimmed), V2 onion, 2 tablespoons 
flour; 1% teaspoonfuls salt, 1-8 tea- 
spoon pepper, 1 inch cube fat salt pork. 

Pick over beans and soak several 
hours, drain, add cold water. Simmer 
three or four hours, or until soft; rub 
through a sieve. Try out the pork and 
cook the onion in it until brown. Re- 
move onion, add flour, salt and pep- 
per, and milk. Cook until it boils then 
add beans and mix thoroughly. 



(Continued on Page 6) 



THE MILKY WAY TO ECONOMY 



MILK A MAN'S DRINK. 



Your efficiency and earning power depend almost wholly on what 
you eat. To keep yourself physically fit, mentally alert — with clear 
eyes, vigorous strength and a manly confidence of bearing — drink more 
MILK with your meals and use it freely and regularly during your work- 
day, especially at luncheon. 

A cool, refreshing glass of milk at frequent intervals will soothe 
your tired nerves and strengthen your over-wrought digestive tissues. 
It will keep your faculties of mind and body running smoothly — dispel 
that tired feeling — and enable you to work harder, tonger and with less 
fatigue. It invigorates and stimulates and you'll never desire artificial 
stimulants once you use milk freely and regularly. It will increase 
your efficiency and skill which in turn will increase your salary ! 

The business man will find that the most satisfying and healthful 
noonday lunch will consist largely of good pure milk. The result will be 
an active clear brain, during the early hours of the afternoon, which 
a meat diet would make the most inefficient hours of his working day. ' 

Persons troubled with digestive troubles, whether they be of a 
serious nature or not, will find in most cases that a milk diet is beneficial. 

AN EXCELLENT FOOD FOR THE KIDNEYS __ 

Milk is a food which contains scarcely any extractives. In conse- 
quence it is an ideal food for the kidneys, through which it passes with- 
ou't causing the least injury to these vital organs; this cannot be said 
of meat with its numerous extractive substances. Milk contains very 
little salt, which qualifies it as a most excellent food. Milk diet has 
rightly been given since the early days of medicine in kidney troubles. 
Since in old age there is aa increase of connective tissue in the kidneys, 
with iinpairment of their efiminative capacity, on this account also milk 
diet is the most suitable for old persons. 

It is reported that in the hospitals of Europe wounded soldiers who 
were given a liberal supply of milk and butter recov-ered more rapidly 
than those who did not receive these articles of food. 

EVERYBODY NEEDS MILK. 

"In Professor Sherman's class for teachers at Columbia University, 
some one asked : 'How long should a child keep up the use of milk ?' and 
h'e laughed and said: 'Well, I should think that by the time he was forty, 
he might safely leave it off.' " 

BUTTERMILK AN ALIMENTARY ANTISEPTIC. 

Though sour milk products of all kinds are to be commended as a 
means of combatting th^ putrefactive bacteria in the intestines, which 
according to Metchnikoff are the cause of old age, buttermilk is prob- 
ably the most valuable as a food antiseptic for th€ stomach and alimen- 
tary canal. 

^Buttennilk as a substitute for fruit acid such as is furnished by 
oranges, lemons, apples, is often recommended. Furthermore, it is of 
more value as a stomach antiseptic where fermentation is present. 

In conditions associated with foul breath, coated tongue, etc., one 
wifl be tremendously benefitted by the free use of buttermilk. It can be 
taken after a meal or with a meal ; and may also be taken before retiring 
at night, provided the system needs the acid. 

(Contin»ed on Page 9) 



THE MILKY WAY TO ECONOMY 



Spinach Soup. 

One quart of spinach (4 ounces) , 1 
thin slice of onion, 2 shces of stale 
bread (2 ounces), 1 quart of skimmed 
or whole milk. . ^i. „i. 

Put the spinach and onion through 
the meat chopper, following them by 
the bread, in order that there may be 
no waste. Put into a double boiler with 
the milk and cook until the spinach is 
tender. 
Rice Soup. 

Take ¥> pint of chicken stock and 2 
tablespoons of rice. Let them simmer 
together 2 hours, then strain and add 
1/2 pint of hot cream and salt to taste. 
Boil up once and serve hot. 

Bisque Soup. 

One quart can tomatoes, 3 pints milk, 
1 large tablespoon flour, butter size of 



an egg, pepper and salt, scant teaspoon 
soda. Put tomatoes on to stew in milk 
in a double boiler to boil, keeping out 
1/2 cup milk to mix the flour. Mix until 
smooth, then add to the boiling milk 
and cook ten minutes, add soda to to- 
mato, stir well and strain through 
sieve, add butter, salt and pepper, mix 
and serve immediately. 

Onion Soup. 

Peel and wash six onions, cut into 
thin slices, cook in one-fourth of a cup 
of hot fat, turning them over until they 
are of an amber shade; sprinkle two 
tablespoonfuls of flour, stir and cook 
until the flour is absorbed, then add one 
quart of milk and let cook, stirring con- 
stantly until boiling, then let simmer 
twenty minutes. Add salt and pepper 
to taste. Serve in cups with a spoonful 
of croutons sprinkled above the soup. 



STEWS AND CHOWDERS 



Milk Stew. 

One quart of milk, 1 cupful raw pota- 
toes, cut into small pieces, 2 tablespoon- 
fuls of butter, 1 cupful of codfish cut 
into small pieces. 

Soak the fish in lukewarm water un- 
til it is soft and the salt removed. Cook 
the potatoes in water until tender dram 
them, add the milk and codfish, and 
bring to the boiling point; add the but- 
ter, and salt to tafste. 

In place of the codfish any other .salt 
or fresh fish, oysters, or a little chipped 
beef may be used. Or the fish may be 
omitted and the soup made savory and 
palatable by adding a few drops of on- 
ion juice, or a vegetable cut into small 
pieces and cooked thoroughly. 

Gypsy Stew. 

Cut bits of salt pork in small cubes, 
fry until brown; add small new onions, 
new potatoes, and peas with a few new 
carrots; cook m just enough water to 
keep them from scorching and add a 
quart or less of good rich milk with sea- 
sonings when ready to serve. 

Any left-over cooked corn, tomatoes, 
rice or lima beans may be added. 

Lobster Stew. 

One large lobster or its equivalent, 
pick all the meat from the shell, wash 
m cold water, chop fine, take 1 quart of 
milk, pint of water, when boihng add 
lobster, gene^-ous piece of butter, salt, 
pepper, to taste, tablespoon flour, boil 
10 minutes. 



boiler. Take 1 can of shrimp, rinse, re- 
move dark line, and break in piece^. 
Put V2 cup of the water which you 
saved from shrimps, on stove and when 
hot add shrimps and generous piece of 
butter. Add this to hot milk and sea- 
son with salt and pepper and serve with 
oyster crackers. May be thickened if 
desired. 

Corn Chowder. 

One can of corn, four cups sliced po- 
tatoes, one-half pound salt fat pork, one 
sliced onion, one quart scalded 
skimmed milk, eight common crackers 
or squares of toast, salt and pepper. 

Cut pork in small pieces and try out; 
add onion and cook five minutes, stir- 
ring the onion often so that it may not 
burn. Parboil potatoes five minutes in 
boiling water to cover; drain and add 
potatoes to fat; cook until potatoes are 
soft, add corn, whole or skimmed milk, 
then heat to boiling point. Season with 
salt and pepper. Add the crackers or 
toast soaked in enough cold skimmed 
milk to moisten. Remove crackers, turn 
chowder into tureen and put crackers 
on top. 



Shrimp Stew. 

Heat % of a quart of milk in double 

(Continued on Page 7) 



Stewed Oysters. 

Drain the liquor from 2 quarts of 
firm, plump oysters. Mix with it, small 
teacupful hot water, add a little salt 
and pepper, and set over the fire in a 
saucepan, let it boil up once, put in the 
oysters, then let them boil for 5 min- 
utes or less. When they "ruffle" add 
2 tablespoonfuls of butter. The in- 
stant it is melted and well stirred in, 
put in a quart of boiling milk or cream 
and take the saucepan from the fire. 



THE MILKY WAY TO ECONOMY 



Potato Stew. 

Pare and slice V2 dozen potatoes, 
boil with one onion in just water to 
cover. Add 1 cup hot milk with but- 
ter the size of an egg and a little flour 
thickening, salt. Add slices of stale 
bread. 

Fish Chowder. 

Three pounds fish, 4 tablespoons but- 
ter, 1 medium onion chopped fine, 1 
quart sliced potatoes, 3 cups hot milk. 

Skin and bone the fish, cut into inch 
cubes. Cover the bone and trimmings 
with cold water and let simmer for one- 
half hour. Cook the onion in the fat 
for 5 minutes, then pour into a stew- 
pan. 

Parboil the sliced potatoes for 5 
minutes, then drain and add layers of 
fish and potatoes to the fat and onion in 
the stewpan. Season each layer with 
salt and pepper. 

Strain the liquor in which the fish 
bones have been cooking over all, and 
cook 20 minutes until fish and potatoes 



are tender. Then add the scalded milk. 
If desired thicker, sprinkle a little corn- 
meal between each layer of fish and 
potatoes. 

Dried Fish Chowder. 

One-half pound salt fish, 4 cups pota- 
toes, cut in small pieces, 2 ounces salt 
pork, 1 small onion chopped, 4 cups 
skimmed milk, 4 ounces crackers. 

Salt codfish, smoked halibut, or othex 
dried fish may be used in this chowder. 
Pick over and shred the fish, holding it 
under lukewarm water. Let it soak 
while the other ingredients of the dish 
are being prepared. Cut the pork in 
small pieces and fry it with the onion 
until both are a delicate brown, add the 
potatoes, cover with water, and cook 
until the potatoes are soft. Add the 
milk and fish and reheat. Salt, if nec- 
essary. It is well to allow the crackers 
to soak in the milk while the potatoes 
are being cooked, then remove them, 
and finally add to the chowder just be- 
fore serving. 



FISH 



Salmon Scalloped. 

Place in a baking pan a layer of 
crumbled crackers, a layer of fjaked 
salmon, repeat until dish is full. Dress- 
ing, 1/4 pound butter, 2 tablespoons of 
flour, 1 pint of hot milk, salt and pep- 
per. Set on stove and allow to thicken. 
Pour over the above and stand in hot 
oven 15 minutes. 
Fish Custards. 

Flake as fine as possible 2^^ cups 
of any kind of cooked white fish, add 3 
beaten eggs, 1 i/i cups of milk, pepper 
and salt to taste. Have ready some 
buttered cups, fill them about half full, 
stand them in a pan of hot water, bake 
20 minutes. Turn out on a heated plat- 
ter and pour over them a rich, highly 
seasoned white sauce. 
Creamed Codfish. 

One-fifth pound salt cod, 4 table- 
spoons butter, 4 tablespoons flour, 2 
cups milk. 

Pick codfish in pieces, cover ' with 
warm water and allow to soak for about 
three hours, or until soft. Melt the 
butter, add the flour, cook for three 
minutes. Add milk and cook until it 
thickens. Drain codfish, add to white 
sauce. Heat, serve. 
Creamed Oysters. 

One-half pint oysters, (1 cup), 1 pint 
milk, 4 tablespoons flour, 4 tablespoons 
butter, V2 teaspoon salt, pepper. 

Melt butter, add flour and cook to- 
gether for three minutes. Add milk 
and stir constantly until thickened. Add 



seasoning and oysters, and keep white 
sauce just below boiling point, allowing 
the oysters to cook slowly until the 
edges curl. Serve on toast. 

Scalloped Oysters. 

One quart oysters, 20 soda crackers, 
1 pint milk, 14 pound butter. Put all 
of your oysters in a baking dish, crush 
the crackers, add them to the oysters, 
then milk, add a little salt and pepper, 
lastly the butter. Bake from one-half to 
three quarters of an hour. 

Clam Batter. 

One/ egg, V2 cup milk, butter size of 
walnut, V2 teaspoon soda, a little salt, 
flour enough to make a thin batter as 
for griddle cakes. Stir clams in batter 
and drop from a fork one at a time into 
a dish of deep, hot fat. 

Salmon Loaf. 

Mix l^ cup salmon, fresh or canned, 
% cup stale bread crumbs, 1 beaten 
egg, V2 cup milk, V2 teaspoon lemon 
juice, V2 teaspoon onion juice together; 
salt and pepper to taste; put in a 
greased baking-dish or any greased 
tins or custard-cups and bake in moder- 
ate oven for about twenty minutes. 

Creamed Fish. 

Pick the fish into small pieces and 
heat in milk. Melt one tablespoon of 
butter, add one tablespoon of flour, and 
pour on gradually one cup hot milk. 
Stir until it thickens slightly. Add fish 
and cook gently for one minute. 



(Continued on Page 8) 



THE MILKY WAY TO ECONOMY 



Creamed Finnan-Haddie. 

Tear baddies into small strips; wash 
clean and place in saucepan with quart 
of water; let it simmer half an hour; 
then pour off water and add one pint of 
fresh milk. When this comes to boil 
thicken with one tablespoon of flour; 
let it boil five minutes and add butter 
(size of a walnut) and a little pepper, 
and serve. 

Creamed Salt Codfish. 

Pick in small pieces one cup salt cod- 
fish; cover with lukewarm water and let 
it stand on back of range until softened. 
Melt one tablespoon butter, add one 
tablespoon flour, pour on gradually one 
cup hot milk. Add fish, and serve on a 
hot platter with fried cubes of salt pork. 

Salt Mackerel In Cream. 

Soak fish over night in cold water. 
Lay into a baking pan, and to one 
mackerel add half a pint of milk, put 
into the oven, and bake twenty-five min- 
utes. About five minutes before it is 
served add a stnall piece of butter. 

Fish, StuflFed and Baked. 

Fish, 3^/4 pounds; bread crumbs, 1 
cup; milk, 1-3 cup; butter, 2 table- 
spoons; salt and pepper; parsley, 1 
tablespoon. 

Clean and wipe fish. Stuff with 
dressing made of crumbs, salt, pepper, 
1 tablespoon butter melted, parsley 
chopped fine, and milk. Sew fish to- 
gether and rub with salt. Place fish 
on narrow sti'ips of cloth in dripping 
pan, and bake in hot oven from 35 to 
40 minutes, basting often with other 
tablespoon of butter, melted in hot wa- 
ter. Lift out fish on strips of cloth, 
remove cloth and stitches, and serve 
hot with drawn butter sauce. 



Scalloped Fish. 

Two cups cold fish (cod, haddock or 
halibut) one and one-half .pups milk, 
one slice onion, blade of mace, bit of 
bay leaf, three tablespoonfuls butter, 
three tablespoonsfuls flour, one-half 
teaspoonful salt, one-eighth teaspoonful 
pepper, one-half cup buttered crumbs. 

Scald the milk with onion, mace and 
bay leaf. Remove seasonings. Melt 
the butter, add flour, salt and pepper, 
then gradually the milk. Boil three 
minutes. Put one-half the fish in a 
buttered baking dish, sprinkle with salt 
and pepper and pour over one-half the 
sauce. Repeat, cover with buttered 
crumbs and bake until the crumbs are 
brown in a hot oven. 

Fish Pudding. 

Two cups boiled halibut, half cup of 
milk, one and one-half tablespoons of 
butter, half tablespoon of flour, one and 
one-half teaspoons salt, quarter tea- 
spoon pepper, half teaspoon' onion juice, 
two eggs. 

Pound the fish until it is thoroughly 
mashed, then rub it through a sieve; 
season the fish pulp with salt, pepper 
and onion juice. Put the butter or 
drippings into a saucepan ; when 
melted add the flour and cook for a 
few minutes; then add the milk slowly, 
stirring canstantly until well scalded; 
then add the fish pulp, take from the 
fire, add the beaten eggs, and mix thor- 
oughly. 

Grease well a mold holding a pint or 
a little more; put in the mixture, press- 
ing it well against the sides to remove 
any air bubbles. Cover the mold with 
a greased paper, and set in a pan of 
warm water covering one-half the 
mold. Place in moderate oven for 30 
minutes, and do not let the water boil. 



SOUFFLES 



Cheese Souffle. 



Two tablespoonfuls butter, 2 table- 
spoonsful flour, % teaspoonful each, 
salt, soda and paprika, 3 eggs, % cup 
milk, 1 cup, or 4 ounces grated cheese. 

Make a sauce of the butter, flour, 
soda, seasoning and milk; let boil five 
minutes, then add the grated cheese and 
the yolks of the eggs, and, lastly, fold 
in the whites of the eggs beaten very 
light. Bake in a buttered souffle-dish 
until well puffed and delicately colored, 
about twenty-five minutes. Let the dish 
stand in hot water. Serve as soon as 
removed from the oven. This dish is 
more conveniently served, when it is 
baked in individual china dishes. 



Spinach Souffle. 

Two cups of cooked spinach, two 
eggs (whites and yolks beaten separate- 
ly) , one tablespoon of melted butter, 
one-half gill of cream, salt and pepper. 
Chop the spinach fine, add the beaten 
yolks, and the butter. Season with salt 
and pepper and beat in the cream and 
the whites of the eggs. Turn into a 
buttered dish, bake in a hot oven until 
light brown. Serve at once, or it will 
fail. 

Fish Souffle. 

Two tablespoons butter, 2 tablespoons 
flour, 1 speck pepper, 1 V2 cups milk, 1 
tablespoon minced parsley, 2 cups flaked 
fish, 3 eggs, 1 teaspoon grated onion, 
few drops lemon juice. 



(Continued on Page 10) 



THE MILKY WAY TO ECONOMY 



MILK AS A FOOD 

Furnishes Nourishing- Material at Relatively Low Cost in Comparison 
with Other Foods. 

Economy in the diet does not always depend upon limiting the use 
of certain foods, but sometimes it is a question of actually increasing- the 
use of foods which furnish nutritive material at relatively low cost. 
Milk belongs to the latter class, and the housewife would do well to study 
its food value and decide whether her family is using as much, as it 
should. 

Many people think of milk only as a bevei-age, but if they under- 
stood that is is in reality a nourishing food they would increase their 
daily allowance. 

We eat foods for two main reasons : First to renew body wastes and 
promote growth by forming new tissues and fluids; and, second, to 
supply energy for carrying on body functions. Milk contains the body- 
building materials (protein and mineral substances, such as lime and 
phospkorus) and also supplies energy for carrying on the body functions. 

The following table, compiled by the United States Department of 
Agriculture, shows the quantities of various foods needed to supply as 
much protein or energy as 1 quart of milk. 



PROTEIN. 

r^iart of milk equals 

7 ounces of suioin steak. 

6 ounces of round steak. 

4.3 eggs or 

8.6 ounces of fowl. 



ENERGY, 
ouart of milk equals 

11 ounces of sirloin steak. 

12 ounces of round steak. 
8V2 eggs or 

10.7 ounces of fowl. 



To supply protein at equal cost if you pay 12 cents for a quart of 
milk you would have to buy sirloin steak as low as 27.9 cents a pound 
and eggs at 30.2 cents a dozen. 

On the other hand if you pay 15 cents for a quart of milk you would 
have to buy sirloin steak as low as 34.9 cents a pound and eggs at 37.7 
cents a dozen. 

To supply energy at equal cost if you buy milk at 12 cents a quart 
you would have to buy sirloin steak at 17 cents a pound and eggs at 15.9 
cents a dozen. 

On the other hand if you pay 15 cents a quart for milk you would 
have to buy sirloin steak at 21.3 cents a pound and eggs at 19.8 a dozen. 

You can buy milk at 12 and 15 cents a quart but steak and eggs can- 
not be bought at a price which represents their food value. 

In comparing foods it is necessary to consider both the protein and 
the energy furnished. Neither one alone can properly be used as a basis 
of comparison, nor is there any correct way to reckon the value of a food 
by considering the total amount of nutritive elements. 

It is very difficult to compare foods on the basis of the mineral m-atter 
they contain, but all physiologists agree that milk is extremely valuable 
from this standpoint. Indeed, it is the food prepared by nature, espe- 
cially for growth and development of the young. A quart of milk a day 
is a good allowance for a young, growing child. 

In addition to being an economical food, milk is usually easily di- 
gested and requires no cooking or other preparation for the table. 
Specialists of the department have found, also, that it is digested better 
when taken with other foods. 

(Continued on Page 11) 



10 



THE MILKY WAY TO ECONOMY 



Make a white sauce of the first four 
ingredients. Add parsley, onion, lem- 
on juice and fish. Beat egg yolks light, 
add to the mixture, and then fold in the 
stiffly beaten egg whites. Bake in but- 
tered dish in moderate oven until firm. 

Cornmeal Custard Souffle. 

Melt three tablespoonfuls of butter, 
in it cook three tablespoonfuls of fine 
cornmeal, add one cup of milk and stir 
until boiling. Let cook over boiling 
water twenty minutes. Remove froia 
the fire, beat m the yolks of three eggs, 
beaten light and mixed with one-fourth 
a teaspoonful of salt and one-third a 



cup of sugar, then fold in the wnites of 
four eggs beaten very light. Turn the 
mixture into a buttered pudding dish, 
dredged wilh sugar, and let bake stand- 
ing on many -Jo'd? of paper in a dish of 
boiling water. The water Should not 
boil during the cooking. The pudding 
is done when well puffed and firm at 
the center. It will take about twenty- 
five minutes. Serve hot with mocha 
sauce. 

Mocha Sauce. 

Beat half a cup of butter to a cream ; 
gradually beat in one cup and a half of 
confectioner's sugar, then beat in drop 
by drop coffee extract or very black cof- 
fee to flavor and tint as desired. 



MEAT AND MEAT SUBSTITUTES 



Puree of Cowpeas. 

(Used like mashed potatoes.) 
Soak 1 pint of dry cowpeas in cold 
water over night. Cook until soft in 
just enough water to cover. Drain and 
pass through a sieve. Season with 
salt, pepper, one-half cupful of cream 
(or milk and a tablespoooful of butter 
or other fat), and 2 teaspoonfuls of 
brown sugar. Beat thoroughly, reheat, 
and serve like mashed potatoes. Could 
be served as a soup by adding more 
milk. 

Dried Beef in Cream. 

Shave the beef very fine, pour over it 
boiling water and let stand a little while. 
Pour off the water and pour on good 
rich cream and let come to a boil. If 
you have not cream use milk and but- 
ter, thickened with a little flour. Sea- 
son with pepper and serve on toast or 
with boiled potato. 

Baked Cowpeas and Cheese. 

(Substitute for meat roll.) 
One tablespoon butter, 1 tablespoon 
finely chopped onion, 1 tablespoon fine- 
ly chopped sweet green pepper or cel- 
ery, 2 cups cooked cowpeas, V2 cup 
grated cheese. 

Press the peas through a sieve to re- 
move the skins, and mix with the 
cheese. Cook the onion and pepper or 
celery in the butter or other fat, being 
careful not to brown, and add them to 
the peas and cheese. Form the mixture 
into a roll, place on a buttered dish 
and cook in a moderate oven until 
brown, basting occasionally with butter 
and water. Serve hot or cold like meat. 

Cottage Pie. 

One cup chopped meat, 1 cup hot wa- 
ter or gravy, 2 cups hot mashed potato, 
V2 teaspoon salt, Vz cup hot milk, 1 



tablespoon of drippings, few grains 
celery salt, 1-8 teaspoon pepper. 

Put meat in an earthen dish, add salt 
and pepper to taste, and the hot water. 
Mix the remaining ingredients with the 
mashed potato, and spread on top of 
meat; bake in hot oven until potato is 
brown. 

Bean Loaf. 

One pound of kidney beans soaked, 
boiled and mashed fine; a loaf of bread, 
crumbed; salt, pepper, one egg and suf- 
ficient milk to moisten well; pack into 
a pan to make a deep loaf and bake 
from twenty to thirty minutes in the 
oven. It can be served with tomato 
sauce or with the gravy from the bot- 
tom of the pan, thickened and sea- 
soned. 

Shepherd's Pie. 

One pound of cold mutton, 1 pint of 
cold boiled potatoes, 1 tablespoon chop- 
ped fat, % cup stock or water. Salt 
and pepper to taste. 

The Crust. 

Four good sized potatoes, ^4 cup of 
milk. Salt and pepper to taste. , 

Cut the mutton and boiled potatoes 
into pieces about one inch square; put 
them in a deep pie or baking-dish, add 
the stock or water, salt, pepper, and 
half the fat cut into small bits.. Then 
make the crust as follows: Pare and 
boil the potatoes, then mash them, add 
Vi cup of milk, ^-^ tablespoonful fat, 
salt and pepper. Beat until light. Now 
add flour enough to make a soft dough 
— about one cupful. Roll it out into a 
sheet, make a hole in the center of the 
crust, to allow the escape of steam. 
Bake in a moderate oven one hour, serve 
in the same dish. 



(Continued on Page 12) 



THE MILKY WAY TO ECONOMY H 

The following table shows the amount of waste in different foods. 



Veal (leg cutlet) 3.4% 

Beef (round) 7.2% 

Eggs 11.2% 

Chicken (broiler) 41.6% 



Halibut (steak) 17.7% 

Mackerel (whole) 44.7% 

Lobsters (whole) 61.7% 

MILK NONE 



Skim 


Sour 


Buttermilk 


Skim 


Sour 


Buttermilk 


Skim 


Sour 


Buttermilk 


Skim 






Skim 


Sour 




Skim 






Skim 






Skim 






Skim 






Skim 






Skim 


Sour 


Buttermilk 


Skim 






Skim 


Sour 


Buttermilk 


Skim 






Skim 






Skim 







Milk, which is cheap and easily digested, may be used as a sub- 
stitute for the more expensive foods, meats and eggs. 

One quart of whole milk equals % lb, beefsteak, 2 lbs. chicken, 8 
-eggs, 1 pt. oysters, 4-5 lb. pork chops in total food value. 

Whole milk at twenty cents a quart would still be the cheapest ani- 
mal food. 

Table of Purposes for which the Various Kinds of Milk may be used : 

Beverage Whole 

Breads Whole 

Cakes Whole 

Cereals Whole 

Cheese Whole 

Chowder Whole 

Cooca Whole 

-Cream Soups Whole 

Custards Whole 

Dessert Sauces Whole 

Griddle Cakes Whole 

Junket Whole 

Muffins Whole 

Puddings Whole 

Sherbet Whole 

White Sauces Whole 

Sour milk and buttermilk may be substituted for sweet or skim 
milk in recipes. Add Yo teaspoon soda for each cup liquid and reduce 
the baking powder to 1 teaspoon per cup of flour. 

Give children plenty of whole milk — 1 quart a day if possible. Re- 
gardless of the price paid, milk is a cheap source of certain nutriments. 

What 12 cents, buys in calories — heat units — needed to give the 

human body energy. 

Calories 

Eggs at 55 cents per dozen 153.0 

Eggs at 35 cents per dozen 234.0 

Round steak at 26 cents per pound 271.0 

Milk at 12c a quart 762.5 

A large glass of it yields as much nourishment as a slice of roast 
beef. It should be borne in mind, however, that milk requires no pre- 
paration, has no waste, and is more thoroughly digested than most 
vegetable foods. As a source of protein, the most expensive of the nutri- 
tive ingredients, it is especially economical. 

In short, milk and its products are fully entitled to their prominent 
place in our food list as comparatively inexpensive, easily digested 
sources of all the necessary ingredients of our diet. 



(Continued on Pagre 15) 



12 



THE MILKY WAY TO ECONOMY 
SAUCES AND GRAVIES 



Salad Cream for Fish Salads 

One-half tablespoon salt, one-half 
tablespoon mustard, three-quarters ta- 
blespoon sugar, one egg slightly beaten, 
two and one-half tablespoons melted 
butter, three-quarters cup milk, and 
one-fourth cup vinegar. Mix ingredi- 
ents in order given, adding vinegar very 
slowly. Cook over boiling water, stir- 
ring constantly until mixture thickens, 
strain and cool. 
Brown Nut Sauce. 

Two tablespoons butter, 2 table- 
spoons peanut butter, 31/2 tablespoons 
flour, IVo cups milk, V2 teaspoon salt, 
few grains pepper. 

Brown the fat, add peanut butter 
and when well mixed add flour and 
continue browning. Pour in the milk 
gradually, stirring constantly. Bring to 
the boiling point and add salt and pep- 
per. 
Milk Gravy for Potatoes. 

One quart of milk, two tablespoons 
flour, one egg, butter, salt and pepper, 
bring to a slow boil. 
Horse-radish Sauce. 

Cream two tablespoonfuls butter; add 
two tablespoonfuls fresh grated horse- 
radish, one tablespoonful very thick 
cream, one-half teaspoonful lemon 
juice. Keep very cold. Good with 
boiled beef. 
Nourishing Milk Gravy. 

One pint of skim' or whole milk, one- 
fourth cupful of flour, two level tea- 
spoonfuls of butter, one-half teaspoon- 
ful of salt. 

Melt butter in saucepan. Add flour 
and salt mixed. Blend. Add milk grad- 
ually. Heat, stirring constantly until 
thick. 

Serve on boiled hominy, rice, samp, 
potatoes, macaroni or slices of corn or 
other bread, plain or toasted. 
Sauce for Croquette Mixtures. 

Three tablespoons butter, 5 table- 
spoons flour, 1 cup of milk, salt and pep- 



per, celery salt, lemon juice, few drops 
onion juice. 

Melt butter; add flour, seasonings and 
milk. Cook until thick. Thffe sauce is 
sufficient to thicken two cups of meat, 
for all kinds of croquettes. It may be 
varied by adding two egg yolks or one 
egg. 
White Sauce for Cream Soups, Toast, 

Scalloped Meats, Fish, etc. 

Heat one cup of milk over hot water. 
Put two tablespoons of butter in a 
sauce pan and when hot stir in two level 
teaspoons of sifted pastry flour. When 
blended add gradually the hot milk, 
stirring constantly as it thickens, to 
prevent lumping; after adding two- 
thirds of the milk stir vigorously while 
the sauce is in quite a thick state, then 
add the remaining milk. Season with 
one-half teaspoon of salt and vary the 
amount of pepper as desired ; a few 
grains will suffice for delicate flavoring; 
tomatoes and corn require one-eighth 
of teaspoon and toast needs none. Keep 
the sauce over hot water and covered 
until needed. 

Cheese Sauce. 

Make a cup of white sauce with two 
tablespoonfuls, each, of butter and flour, 
one-fourth a teaspoonful, each, of salt 
and pepper and one cup of milk, then 
stir in from one-half to a whole cup of 
grated cheese with salt and pepper as 
needed; 
Sterling Sauce. 

One cup butter, 1 cup sugar, creamed 
together, 1 teaspoon vanilla, 4 table- 
spoons cream added drop by drop, beat- 
ing briskly all the time. Keep cold until 
ready to use. 

Tomato Bisque Sauce. 

One-half can of tomatoes strained, 
1 V2 cups of milk. Heat tomato, also 
milk, separate, mix together and thicken 
with bread crumbs or fltour or crackers, 
a pinch of salt, V2 teaspoon soda, sweet- 
en to taste; very nice for a side dish 
with meat. 



SALAD DRESSING 



One-Egg Salad Dressing. 

One teaspoon of mustard, one tea- 
spoon of salt, two teaspoons of flour, 
four teaspoons of sugar, a few grains 
of cayenne pepper, one egg, one-fourth 
cup of vinegar, three-fourths cup of 
milk and one tablespoon of melted but- 
ter. Make up cold and stir on the 
stove until thick. Before using stir in 
half a pint of whipped cream to which 
has been added one-half cup of confec- 
tioners' sugar. 



Sour-Cream Salad Dressing. 

Beat a cupful of cream till very 
light, being sure to have the cream very 
cold. Then add two tablespoonfuls of 
vinegar, one of lemon juice, a teaspoon- 
ful of sugar, one of salt, with pepper, 
paprika, and mustard to taste. Beat all 
together till very thick. This dressing 
is fine with cucumbers. 
Cream Dressing. 

Beat cup of cream and Vi teaspoon 
of salt firm, add 2 tablespoonfuls of 
tomato catsup. 



(Continued on Page 13) 



THE MILKY WAY TO ECONOMY 



13 



VEGETABLES 



Creamed Potatoes. 

Four medium sized potatoes, 1 V2 cup 
milk, V2 cup watei% 4 tablespoons flour, 
4 tablespoons butter, V2 teaspoon salt, 
and little pepper. 

Cut boiled potatoes in dice. Melt fat 
in saucepan, add flour and cook togeth- 
er for three minutes. Add milk and 
water, stir until thickened. Season, add 
potatoes, and cook until potatoes are 
warmed through. 

Potatoes Baked in Milk. 

Butter a baking dish, put in a layer 
of peeled and thinly sliced i"aw potatoes, 
sprinkle with pepper and salt and dot 
with bits of butter. Continue in this 
manner until the dish is nearly full, 
then pour in enough cream or milk to 
cover the potatoes and bake 1 V2 hours 
in a moderate oven. 

Scalloped Onions. 

Five medium-sized onions, 1 table- 
spoon butter, 4 cups br-ead crumbs, 1 
cup milk, 1 tablespoon flour. 

Boil onions. Drain and cut into 
slices. Melt fat, add flour and cook to- 
gether for three minutes. Add milk 
and cook until it thickens, making a 
white sauce. Season with salt and pep- 
per. In a greased baking dish arrange 
alternate layers of bread crumbs, and 
onions, sprinkling the onions with the 
white sauce. Have the top layer of 
crumbs. Brown in a hot oven. 

Creamed Onions. 

One quart onions, 1 tablespoon but- 
ter, 1 tablespoonful flour, dash of pep- 
per, 1 cup milk. Peel the onions, put 
on in saucepan with boiling water to 
cover and 1 teaspoon of salt, boil 30 
minutes or until tender. Drain, put the 
butter in saucepan, when melted, add 
flour, mix well, then slowly add 1 cup 
milk, cook until smooth, pour over the 
onions. 

Cream of Cauliflower. 

Soak a small head of cauliflower in 
salted water for 1 hour, then place in 
'boiling salted water and cook until ten- 
der. Drain and press through a sieve. 
Scald 1 quart of milk with half an on- 
ion and a chili pepper and strain. Cook 
1-3 cup of butter, add the flavored milk 
gradually, stir and cook until thick, sea- 
son with pepper and salt, add the pre- 
pared cauliflower and V2 cup of cream 
and serve at once. 

Cream of Asparagus. 

Boil until tender, in some soup stock, 
2 bunches of asparagus. Remove from 
fire. Cut tips off 1 bunch and set aside. 
Pass remainder through colander. Add 
to the other, soup stock and thicken 



with two tablespoonfuls flour. Heat 1 
pint sweet cream in double boiler and 
pour while boiling into the soup tureen, 
then stir in the prepared stock. Put in 
the asparagus tips, season with salt 
and pepper. 

This recipe can be used with potatoes, 
peas, onions, or celery. 

Carrots, a la Poulette. 

Boil two bunches of carrots until 
tender in boiling salted water, drain. 
Blend two tablespoons of butter with 
one tablespoon of flour; when smooth 
add one cup of milk and stir until boil- 
ing. Add salt, paprika to taste, and one 
tablespoon of chopped parsley. Cook 
for five minutes, then add carrots and 
allow to cook five minutes longer. Serve 
hot. 

White Sauce with Peas. 

One cup milk, 2 tablespoons butter, 2 
tablespoons flour, V2 teaspoon salt, V2 
cup peas (canned). 

Melt fat, add flour and cook together 
for three minutes. Add milk and cook 
until thickened. Add salt and pepper. 
Prain the peas, add to the white sauce 
hot. 

Macaroni Croquettes with Tomato Sauce 
(about 12 croquettes). 

Two cups macaroni, broken in small 
pieces, 1 cup milk, 1-3 cup flour, 5 table- 
spoons butter, % teaspoon sglt, pepper, 
fat for frying. 

Cook the macaroni in boiling salted 
water until it is tender, drain, cut fine. 
Melt fat, add flour and cook for three 
minutes, add milk, cook until well 
thickened. Season, and stir in the maca- 
roni. Cool. Shape croquettes. Roll in 
fine bread crumbs. Fry in deep boiling 
fat. 

Spaghetti and Cheese. 

One cup spaghetti, 2 quarts boiling 
water, 1 tablespoon salt, Vg pound 
cheese, 2-3 cup milk, 3 tablespoons but- 
ter, 3 tablespoons flour, 1 cup water. 

Cook spaghetti in boiling salted water 
until tender. Drain. Melt butter, add 
flour and cook for three minutes. Add 
milk and water, cook until thickened. 
Season. In a greased baking dish ar- 
range alternate layers of cooked spa- 
ghetti and white sauce. Sprinkle the 
spaghetti with grated cheese. Bake in 
moderately hot oven until spaghetti is 
brown. 

Creamed Beets. 

Any left-over beets that have been 
served with butter and no vinegar may 
be creamed. Chop them coarse, and 
to each cup of beets allow one cup of 
white sauce. Carrots, potatoes or pars- 
nips may be used. 



(Continued on Page 14) 



14 



THE MILKY WAY TO ECONOMY 



Hominy Grits. 

Add one cup of hominy to 4 cups of 
boiling milk or water. Cook for ten 
minutes directly over the fire and then 
put into a double boiler. Cook for two 
hours, stir occasionally, very lightly. 
If hominy is soaked overnight, add it 
in the morning to the boiling water and 
cook for an hour. This may be eaten 
hot or cold, with milk, or with butter 
and sugar. 

Scalloped Potatoes. 

This dish may be prepared by mixing 
a pint and a half of cold potatoes cut 
in cubes and seasoned with a tablespoon 
of salt, 14 of a teaspoon of pepper, and 
a pint of cream sauce. Put the mixture 
in a shallow baking-dish, cover with 
grated bread crumbs, and dot with but- 
ter. Bake half an hour in a moderate 
oven. 

Dumplings for Veal Pot Pie, Lamb or 
Beef Stews. 

Sift together two cups of flour, half a 
teaspoonful of salt and four level tea- 
spoonfuls of baking powder; cut in 
three level tablespoonfuls of butter, 
then mix to a soft dough with a beaten 
egg diluted with half a cup of milk. A 
little more milk will be needed. The 
dough should be of a consistency to 
take up with a tablespoon. Cover and 
let cook undisturbed fifteen minutes. 

Spinach with Cream. 

One-half peck spinach, 2 tablespoons 
butter, 1 tablespoon flour, 1 teaspoon 
salt, V2 teaspoon pepper, V2 pint milk. 

Blanch and mince the spinach. Put 
the butter in a saucepan and on the 
fire. When hot add the flour and stir 
until smooth, then add the minced 
spinach and the salt and pepper. Cook 
for five minutes, add hot milk, and 
cook three minutes longer. Serve. 

Parsnips. "'*' .i* .^ 

The simplest method of cooking pars- 
nips, is to wash clean, boil and then 
■a^rape off the skin. The cooked and 
-pesied parsnips may be chopped rather 
(coaise, seasoned with salt, and put in- 
to a stewpan with hot milk enough ^0 
cover them. 

For a pint and a half of parsnips 
beat together one tablespoon of butter 
and one ieaspoon of flour. Stir into the 
parsriips and milk. Simmer for ten 
iminutes. Parsnips are often cut in 
^fees after boiling and fried in butter. 

Creamed Cauliflower. 

One pint cooked cauliflower, 1 pint 
«nilk, 1 teaspoon salt, 1-3 teaspoon pep- 



per, 1 tablespoon butter, V2 tablespoon 
flour, 3 slices toasted bread. 

Have the cooked cauliflower broken 
into branches and seasoned with half 
the salt and pepper. Melt the butter in 
a saucepan. Add the flour and stir un- 
til smooth, then gradually add the milk, 
stirring all the time. When the sauce 
boils add the salt, pepper, and the cauli- 
flower. Cook ten minutes and sex've 
on slices of toast. Serve very hot. 

Carrots with White Sauce. 

Scrape the carrots lightly; then cut 
into large dice or slices. Put into a 
stewpan with salted boiling water, allow- 
ing a teaspoon of salt for a quart of 
water, and boil until tender. Drain, 
season with a little salt, put them in a 
vegetable dish, and pour the white 
sauce over them. Or the carrots may be 
cut into dice before cooking; then put 
them back in the stewpan, and for every 
pint add one tablespoon of butter, one 
teaspoon of sugar, half a teaspoon of 
salt, and one-half cup of water or meat 
stock. Cover over a hot fire until the 
carrots have absorbed the seasonings 
and liquid. 

Rice Croquettes. 

To make cold boiled rice into cro- 
quettes, the rice must be reheated in a 
double boiler with V2 cup of milk and 
the yolk of an egg to each cup; you may 
season with sugar and lemon or salt 
and pepper, and serve as a vegetable. 
Form into cylindei'-shaped croquettes; 
dip in egg and bread crumbs, and fry 
in smoking hot deep fat. 

Cabbage with Cheese. 

Make a white sauce of one tablespoon 
each of butter and flour, one cup of 
milk, one-half teaspoon of salt and a 
dash of cayenne. Spread a layer of 
cabbage on the bottom of a pudding- 
dish; cover it with white sauce; then add 
a layer of grated cheese. Make a second 
layer of cabbage, sauce and cheese; 
over the top with a layer of crumbs, and 
place it in the oven. When the sauce 
bubbles through the crumbs it is done. 
Serve in same dish. 

Cabbage and Potatoes. 

One pint boiled finely minced cab- 
bage, 6 medium-sized potatoes, V2 tea- 
spoon pepper, 2 tablespoons butter, 2 
teaspoons salt, V2 pint hot milk. 

Peel the potatoes and put them in a 
stew-pan with boiling water enough to 
cover them. Cook thirty minutes. Pour 
off the water and mash fine and light. 
Beat in the hot milk, seasoning, and 
cabbage. Cook about five minutes 
longer. 



(Continued on Page 16) 



THE MILKY WAY TO ECONOMY 15 

WASTE NOT— WANT NOT 
^» 

Half a cup of milk — whole, skimmed, or sour — a seemingly trifling: 
matter — hardly worth the trouble to keep or use. 

In many households quite a little milk is wasted — left uncovered in 
glasses — regarded as useless because the cream has been skimmed off — 
allowed to sour — poured down the sink or thrown out. 

Now, if every home in the U. S. — there are 20,000,000 of them — • 
should waste on the average one-half cup daily, it would mean a waste 
of 2,500,000 quarts daily — 912,500,000 quarts a year — the total product 
of more than 400,000 cows. 

It takes a lot of grass and grain to make that much milk — and an 
army of people to produce and deliver it. 

But, every household doesn't waste a half cup of milk a day. Well, 
say that one-half cup is wasted in only one out of a hundred homes. Still 
intolerable — when milk is so nutritious — when skim milk can be used in 
making nutritious soups and cereal dishes — when sour milk can be used 
in baking or for cottage cheese. 

WHAT AUTHORITIES SAY ABOUT MILK 

The Food Value of Milk is such that Dr. E. V. McCollum, Johns Hop- 
kins University, says: 

'T only wish to point out the fact which rests upon sound ex- 
perimental evidence, that milk is an indispensable article of the diet of 
any people who wish to achieve ; that milk production cannot rest upon a 
philanthropic basis, but must be a paying industry. I want to empha- 
size that the public must allow the price of milk to advance, if necessary, 
so that the industry is profitable to the dairyman. Milk is worth much 
more than its energy value or than its protein content would indicate. 
It is the great factor of safety in making good the deficiencies of the 
grains which form and which must continue to form the principal source 
of energy in our diet. Without the continued use of milk, not only for the 
feeding of our children, but in liberal amounts in cookery and as an 
adjuvant to our diet, we cannot as a nation maintain the position as a 
world power to which we have arisen." 

Dr. F. A. Woods, Maryland, says : 

"In the consideration of the food value of milk, the very best au- 
thority may be quoted to show that not only is milk our most important 
article of food, but that it is, at current prices, by far the cheapest 
animal food attainable, is one of the cheapest sources of protein, or 
body-building material, and is a cheaper source of energy than is any 
staple food, except the cereals. Milk contains calcium, phosphorus and 
other mineral elements needed by the growing body in the most avail- 
able form; milk furnishes the fat needed in human nutrition in the most 
assimilable form; milk contains both of the newly discovered so-called 
'fat-soluble' and 'water-soluble' factors necessary to normal growth. Al- 
together, milk, more than any other food, combines most completely, 
and in most available form, at the lowest cost, all the elements needed 
to promote growth and sustain the human body. Milk has absolutely 
no substitute for growing children. It deserves to rank, therefore, as 
our most important and necessary food." 

(Continued on Page 19) 



16 



THE MILKY WAY TO ECONOMY 



MEASUREMENTS OF SUBSTITUTES EQUAL TO ONE CUP OF FLOUR 



( United States Department 
Agriculture.) 

These weights and measures were 
tested in the Experimental Kitchen of 
the U. S. Food Administration, Home 
Conservation Division, and of thp U. S. 
Department of Agriculture, ofTice of 
Home Economics. 

In subs'^ituting for one cun of "^onr 
use the following measurements. Each 
is equal in weight to a cup of aour. 

One and three-eighths cups barley, % 
cup b'lckwheat. 1 cup (scant) corn 
flour, % cup cornmeal (coarse), 1 cup 



(scant) cornmeal (fine), % cup corn- 
starch, 1 CUD (scant) peanut flour, % 
cup potato flour, % cup rice flour, 1% 
cups rolled oats, 1 Vs cups* roll ^d oats 
(ground in meat chopper), % cup soy- 
bean flour, 1 % cups sweet potato 
flour. 

This table will help you to make good 
grlddlp cakes, muffins, c^ko.5, cookir-s, 
iirop biscuits and nut or raisin bread 
wj out ina: any wtieai flo.'v. 

You will not need new recipes. Just 
use the ones your family has always 
liked, but for each cup of flour use the 
amount of substitute given above. 



GOOD COMBINATIONS OF SUBSTITUTES 



You will get better results if you mix 
two substitutes than if you use just one 
alone. Some good combinations are : 

Rolled oats (ground) and Corn flour 
Barley flour and Rice flour 

Buckwheat flour and Potato flour 
Peanut flour and Sweet potato flour 
Soy-bean flour and Cornmeal 



Cautions. 

All measurements should be accurate. 
A standard measuring cup is equal to a 
half-pint. 

Bake all substitute mixtures more 
slowly and longer. 

Pie crusts often do not roll well and 
have to be patted on to the pan. 



BREAD (Sweet Milk) 



Yeast Bread. 



When mashing potatoes for dinner 
put a tablespoon of it into 1 pint of the 
water they were boiled in, and set aside 
until evening, then strain it through a 
colander, add 1 pint of milk, 1 large 
spoonful of butter, 1 large spoon of 
white sugar, 1 teaspoon salt, 1 yeast 
cake and flour to make a stiff batter. In 
the morning form into loaves, using 
plenty of melted butter. Let rise and 
bake % of an hour. For rolls take a 
portion of the dough as needed, roll 
out like biscuit, spread with melted but- 
ter and fold, let rise until light and 
bake in rather a quick oven 15 or 20 
minutes. 

Nut Bread. 

Four cups of flour, 1 1/2 cups of milk, 
1 egg, V2 cup sugar, 3 teaspoons of bak- 
ing powder, a pinch of salt and cup nut 
meat. When mixed, stand in a warm 
place for a couple of hours to rise, then 
bake in a moderate oven. Well-buttered 
slices, without other filling, make palat- 
able sandwiches. 

Nut Bread. 

Three cups graham flour, 5 level tea- 
spoons baking powder, 1 V2 teaspoons 
salt, 1 Vj cups milk and water, M cup 
sugar or corn syrup, 1 cup chopped 



nuts (not too fine) or 1 cup raisins, 
washed and floured. 

Mix together fiour, baking powder 
and salt; add milk and water, sugar or 
corn syrup and nutmeats or raisins. Put 
into greased loaf pan, allow to stand 30 
minutes in warm place. Bake in mod- 
erate oven 40 to 45 minutes. 

Rice Bread. 

Two cups boiled rice ( V2 cup raw 
rice), 6 cups flour or more if necessary, 
1 cake yeast, dry or compressed, or V2 
cup of liquid yeast, 2 tablespoons sugar, 
1 tablespoon salt, 2 tablespoons butter, 
if desired, V2 cup lukewarm water, if 
liquid yeast is not used. 

Cook the rice until soft with as much 
water as it will absorb and put through 
a colander, cool until lukewarm, add 
the salt, sugar and about 1 cup of 
flour and mix thoroughly. Next add 
the yeast, which has been rubbed 
smooth in a cup with 4 tablespoons of 
lukewarm water. Cover and place the 
bowl in temperature of 85 degrees. Al- 
low this mixture to rise for two hours or 
until very light. 

To this soft sponge add the melted 
butter and the remainder of the flour, 
kneading thoi'oughly until a smooth 
and elastic dough has been formed. Do 
not add moi'e 'water to the dough unless 
it is absolutely necessary in order to 
use 'all the flour. Set the dough back 



(Continued on Page 17) 



THE MILKY WAY TO ECONOMY 



17 



to rise again for one hour or until light. 
Mold into loaves, place in greased pans 
and set in a warm place. When they 
liave increased to two or three times 
their original size bake in a moderate 
•oven for about 50 to 60 minutes. 

If desired, the sponge for this bread 
may be set in the evening, using only 
one-fourth as much yeast as directed for 
the quicker method. In warm weather 
keep this sponge cool. 

■Cornmeal and Wheat Bread. 

1 V2 cups skim milk, 1 cup cornmeal, 
1 teaspoonful sugar, 2 cups flour, 1 
'Cake compressed yeast, V2 teaspoonful 
salt, 1 teaspoonful butter. 

Put milk and cornmeal, salt, sugar 
and butter in double boiler. Cook 20 
minutes. Allow to cool to room tem- 
peratui'e and add yeast softened in wat- 
•ei". Add flour and mold thoroughly. 
Let rise and bake 45 or 50 minutes. 

Sran Bread Sticks. 

To one cup of scalded milk add three 
tablespoonfuls of butter, half a tea- 
spoonful of salt and a tablespoonful of 
molasses; stir till the butter is melted 
and the liquid is lukewarm, then stir 
in a cake of compressed yeast, mixed 
with one-fourth cup of lukewarm watev, 
and one cup and a half of bran and as 
much bread flour as can be convenient- 
ly mixed in with a spoon. The dough 
should not be mixed stiff enough to 
knead. Mix, cut and turn the dough 
over and over with a spoon or knife; 
cover and set aside to become light. 
When the dough has doubled in bulk, 
with buttered fingers pull off bits of the 
dough and work into smooth balls. Set 
the balls on a floured board, cover and 
let stand until very light; roll the balls, 
'One by one, under the fingers to length- 
en them to fit breadstick pans. When 
again very light bake about fifteen min- 
utes. Brush over with the white of an 
egg, slightly beaten, and return to the 
oven a moment to set the glaze. 

Brown Bread. 

Two cups graham, V2 cu,p cornmeal, 
V2 cup flour, 2 cups sweet milk, 2-3 cup 
molasses, V2 cup hot water, scant tea- 
spoonful soda in hot water, salt, steam 
3 hours. 

Whole-Wheat or Graham Bread. 

One and one-half cups lukewarm 
miUv, 3 tablespoons brown sugar, 1 V2 
teaspoons salt, 3 cups whole-wheat or 
graham flour, V2 yeast cake. 

Scald the milk, together with the su- 
gar and salt. When lukewarm, add the 
yeast, mixing it first with a little of the 
milk. Add the flour, beat well, and let 
it double its volume. Beat it thorough- 
ly, put into a pan, and let it rise. In a 



pan of standard size it should come 
nearly to the top. 

Raisin Bread. 

Two lbs. flour, 1 egg, 1 yeast cake, 
lemon flavoring, 4 tablespoons melted 
shortening, 1 lb. raisins, sugar and salt 
to taste, milk enough to make dough 
that can be kneaded. 

Rye Bread. 

One quart milk, 2 tablespoons sugar, 
4 teaspoons salt, 2 tablespoons butter, 
1 cake compressed yeast, 3 gupf uls flour 
(1 cup being wheat and the remainder 

Follow the directions for making 
wheat bread according to the short proc- 
ess until after the bread has been mold- 
ed the second time. At tiiis point the 
dough should be placed in a 6-quart 
bowl lined with a cloth into, which flour 
has been rubbed. When the dough has 
risen to the top of the bowl turn out 
on a hot sheet iron (a dripping pan in- 
verted will do), over which 1 table- 
spoonful of flour has been sprinkled, and 
put it immediately into a very hot oven. 
After 10 minutes lower the temperature 
somewhat and bake for 1 hour. 

Corn Bread with Rye Flour. 

One cup cornmeal, 1 cup rye flour, 2 
tablespoons sugar, 5 teaspoons baking 
powder, 1 teaspoon salt, 1 cup milk, 1 
egg, 2 tablespoons butter. 

Sift dry ingredients into bowl, add 
milk, beaten egg and melted butter. Stir 
well. Put into greased pan, allow to 
stand in warm place 20 to 25 minutes 
and bake in moderate oven 40 to 45 
minutes. 

Wafer Corn Bread. 

Two cups finely ground cornmeal, 2 
teaspoons baking powder, V2 teaspoon 
salt, 1 egg, 1 tablespoon butter, 2 cups 
milk, 2 tablespoons molasses (if de- 
sired). 

Mix thoroughly cornmeal, baking 
powder and salt. Add melted butter, 
molasses and well-beaten egg. Beat 
well. Pour into greased shallow pans, 
(the batter should be about V4, inch 
deep) and bake in hot oven until brown 
on both sides. The breads should be 
less than 'V2 inch thick when baked. 

Entire Wheat Prune Bread. 

Two and one-half cups entire wheat 
flour, M cup sugar, 1 teaspoon salt, 4 
teaspoons baking powder, 1 cup milk, 1 
tablespoon butter, 1 cup prunes. 

Wash prunes, soak several hours, 
drain, stone and chop. Mix and sift 
flour, sugar, salt and baking powder; 
add milk and beat well. Add prunes 
and melted butter. Put into greased 
bread pan, allow to stand 20 to 25 min- 



(Continued on Page 18) 



18 



THE MILKY WAY TO ECONOMY 



utes in warm place and bake in moder- 
ate oven one hour. (Dates, raisins or 
nuts may be used instead of prunes.) 

Cornmeal Bread. 

One ane one-half cups cornmeal, 4 
teaspoons baking powder, 1 teaspoon 
salt, 1 tablespoon flour, 2 cups milk, 1 
egg, 1 tablespoon melted butter. 

Mix and sift the dry ingredients. ^ 
Combine the milk, beaten egg and but- 
ter, add to the dry ingredients. _ Mix 
well, pour into greased muffin tins or 
shallow pan and bake in a hot oven. 
This bread should always be served hot. 

If a softer bread is desired the corn- 
meal, salt, and milk may be brought to 
a boil and cooked for 10 minutes in a 
double boiler or over hot water. Cool, 
add the beaten egg. melted fat and 
baking powder. The flour is ^ not ne- 
cessary. Beat well and bake in a hot 
oven. Serve hot. 

Milk Helps Corn Bread. 

Corn bread made with skim milk has 
much more food value than when made 
with water, because the milk contains 
protein, which is a tissue builder. This 
is true in making any bread, and less 
butter can be used on bread that has 
been made with milk. 



Soft Corn Bread. 

Two-thirds cup of rice, V2 cup of 
white cornmeal, 3 cups milk, 5 eggs, 2 
tablespoons butter, 1 teaspoon of salt. 

Mix the meal, rice, and salt with the 
milk in a double boiler and cook until 
the rice is nearly soft. Add the butter 
and eggs well beaten and put the mix- 
ture in a greased granite baking pan. 
Bake for an hour in a moderate oven 
and serve in the pan in which it is- 
baked. 

This will serve six people. 

Crisp Cornmeal Cake. 

Three cups of milk, 1 teaspoon of 
salt, 1 V2 cups' cornmeal. 

Mix the ingredients and spread on 
shallow btittered pans to the depth of 
about one-fourth of an inch. Bake in a 
moderate oven until crisp. 

Apple Corn Bread. 

Two cups white cornmeal, 2 table-, 
spoons of sugar, % teaspoon of salt, 1 
teaspoon of soda, 1 teaspoon of cream 
of tartar, 1 2-3 cups of milk, 3 tart 
apples, pared and sliced. 

Mix the dry ingredients, add the milk, 
and beat thoroughly. Add the apples. 
Pour into a well-buttered shallow pan 
and bake thirty minutes or longer in a 
hot oven to soften the apples. 

Dried apricots may be used instead of 
apples if cooked first in the usual man- 
ner. 



BREAD (Sour Milk) 



Sour Milk Gingerbread. 

One teaspoon soda in V2 cup molas- 
ses. Add V2 cup sugar, V2 teaspoon 
salt, V2 teaspoon cinnamon, 1 teaspoon 
ginger, 1 tablespoon melted butter, 1 
cup sour milk, 1 V^ cups flour. If sour 
cream is used omit butter. All foods 
containing molasses scorch easily. You 
may need to put an asbestos disk under 
the pan if oven bakes too quickly on 
bottom. This gingerbread is fine hot 
with whipped cream. One large or 2 
small loaves. 

Cornmeal Gingerbread. 

One cup cornmeal, 1 cup wheat flour, 
1 teaspoon soda, % teaspoon salt, 2 
teaspoons ginger, 1 egg, 1 teaspoon cin- 
namon, V2 teaspoon cloves, 1 cup sour 
milk, 1 cup molasses, 2 tablespoons 
butter. 

Sift together the dry ingredients. 
Combine the milk, molasses, melted but- 
ter and beaten egg. Add the liquid in- 
gredients to the dry. Stir well. Bake 
in moderate oven. 



Custard Corn Cake. 

Two eggs, Vi cup of sugar, 1 tea- 
spoon of soda, 1 teaspoon of salt, 1 cup- 
of sour milk, 1 cup of sweet milk, 1 2-3 
cups of cornmeal, 1-3 cup of wheat 
flour, 2 tablespoons of butter, 1 cup of 
cream. 

Beat the eggs and sugar together 
thoroughly. Sift the flour, soda, and 
salt together and mix with the meal. 
Mix all the ingredients but the cream 
and butter. Melt the butter in a deep 
pan, greasing the sides of the pan thor- 
oughly. Pour in the batter, add (with- 
out stirring) a cup of cream, and bake- 
twenty to thirty minutes. When cooked 
there should be a layer of custard on 
top of the cake or small bits of the cus- 
tard distributed through it. 

This will serve six persons. 

Sour Cream Gingerbread. 

Three-fourths cup molasses, 1 tea- 
spoon soda, 1 cup heavy sour cream, 2: 
cups of flour, V2 teaspoon salt, 2 tea- 
spoons ginger, 1 egg. Bake in tin muf- 
fin pan or sheet. Be cai-eful not to* 
have oven too hot. Cover with paper 
the last five minutes of baking. 



(Continued on Page 20) 



THE MILKY WAY TO ECONOMY 19 

Another Authority says: 

"Even such comparisons fail to do justice to the true nutritive value 
of milk, which is largely due to the peculiar nature of its constituents," 

Flora Rose, Cornell University, says: 

With all the evidence in, no food bears the investigation of nutritive 
properties better than does milk. It is impossible to escape the convic- 
tion that not only is it a cheap food, but it is a food whose value can 
hardly be estimated in terms of dollars and cents." 



The first food a family should buy is milk, and the last food to be 
dispensed with is milk. It is not the only food, but it is the most im- 
portant food. It is indispensable for children, and, within reasonable 
hmits, economical and desirable in the food ration of adults. 

It is very unfortunate that the attention of the housewife is likely 
to be especially focussed upon the price of milk, and that many persons 
of moderate means are inclined to cut down on milk, not realizing what 
an essential part of the diet it constitutes. However, we must ask not 
merely how much we pay for a pound or a quart, but how great is the 
return in actual food value. It has been thoroughly demonstrated that 
you can get more energy from 25 cents' worth of milk than you can 
from 25 cents' worth of any other foodstuffs. It is because of this fact 
that dietitians advise families who must make every penny count to cut 
down on their meat before they do on their milk. 

PROPER EATING AND PLENTY OF NUTRITION 

"An intelligent knowledge of foods and food values is essential to 
proper dieting. The day is past for fads in the matter of diet. We must 
be guided by certain principles that are as fixed in their relation to diet 
and health as are the laws that govern the movement of planets. 

Every mother who has to select and prepare the food materials, 
since she holds the health of her family so largely within her grasp, 
should possess the information on this subject. An interest in food 
values and food combinations gives better results in promoting race 
betterment than any other single factor. Proper eating and adequate 
nutrition are essential to the attainment of success in almost any vo- 
cation in life." 

THREE RULES FOR WISE BUYING 

1. Don't Begin to Save on Milk. — Children must have it; adults 
ought to. Milk builds bone and muscle better than any other food. 

2. Spend at Least as Much for Milk as for Meat. — Remember 
that a quart of milk is equal in food value to a pound of steak. "A 
quart of milk a day for every child" is a good rule — easy to remember. 
At least try to provide a pint of milk a day for every member of the 
family. 

3. Be Sparing in the Use of Meats. — ^These are usually the most 
expensive of the staple foods in proportion to their food value, and 
are not strictly necessary when a proper amount of milk is used. Meat , 
may be decreased with less harm than any of the other foods men- 
tioned. The amount spent for meat may decrease as the amount for 
milk increases. 

.(Continued on Page 21) 



20 



THE MILKY WAY TO ECONOMY 



GENERAL RULES FOR MUFFINS 



Two cups flour, 3 teaspoons baking 
powder, 1 egg, 1 cup milk, V^ table- 
spoon fat, V4: tablespoon sugar. 

One cup cornmeal, 1 cup flour, 4 tea- 
spoons baking powder, 1 egg, 1 cup 
milk, 1/4 tablespoon butter, V^ table- 
spoon sugar. . 

One and one-half cups entire wheat, 
i/o cup flour, 4 teaspoons baking pow- 
der, 1 egg, 1 cup milk, % tablespoon 
butter, 1/4 tablespoon sugar. 

Three-fourths cup rye, 1 Vs cup flour, 
4 teaspoons baking powder, 1 egg, 1 
cup milk, V2 tablespoon butter, li table- 
spoon sugar. 



One cup bran, 1 cup flour, 4 tea- 
spoons baking powder, 1 egg, 1 cup milk' 
14 tablespoon butter, ^4 tablespoon 
sugar. ^ 

The method of preparation is the same 
for all muffins: Mix and sift the dry- 
ingredients, add the well-beaten egg, 
the melted butter and the milk in the 
order given. Bake in a hot oven. In 
increasing the amount, if you should 
take as much as four times the recipe, 
that is eight cups of flour and four 
eggs, lessen the proportion of baking 
powder a little. Twelve teaspoons in- 
stead of sixteen would be enough. 



MUFFINS, GEMS, ROLLS, ETC. (Sweet Milk) 



Sweet Milk Gems. 

Beat 1 egg well, add a pint of new 
milk, a little salt and graham flour, 
until it will drop off the spoon. Heat 
and butter the gem pans before drop- 
ping in the dough and bake in a hot 
oven 20 minutes. 

Apple Gems. 

One cup cornmeal, 1 V2 cups flour, V2 
teaspoon salt, 2 tablespoons sugar, 5 
teaspoons baking powder,' 1 cup milk, 
4 sour apples, 2 tablespoons molasses. 

Sift dry ingredients together. Add 
enough milk to make thick batter. Beat 
well. Add apples chopped fine and mo- 
lasses. Bake in hot greased gem pans 
15 to 20 minutes. 

Farina Gems. 

Two eggs, 1 cup of milk, 1 cup cold 
foiled farina, 1 cup of flour, 4 level 
teaspoons of baking powder, V2 tea- 
spoon of salt. 

Separate the eggs, add the milk and 
stir this, gradually, into the cold farina. 
When smooth add the salt, baking 
powder and flour, mixed. Beat, and then 
add the well-beaten whites of eggs. 
Bake in gem pans in a quick oven a 
half hour. 

•Cream Tartar Biscuit. 

One quart flour, 3 teaspoons cream 
■tartar, 11/2 teaspoons soda, a little salt. 
Mix the cream tartar and soda with the 
flour, sift 3 times, then rub in the flour, 
butter the size of a small egg, mix with 
sweet milk, bake in hot oven. 

French Muffins. 

Two cups flour, 2 rounded teaspoons 
baking powder, Vs teaspoon salt, 2 tea- 
spoons butter, 2 teaspoons sugar, 2 eggs, 
1 cup milk. Mix the dry ingredients 
toeether, add the* eggs and lastly the 
toilk. 



Corn Muffins. 

One egg, V2 cup Indian meal, 1 Vz 
cups flour, pinch of salt, 1 teaspoon su- 
gar, 2 teaspoons baking powder. Add 
milk to make thin batter. 

Nut Buns. 

One cupful sugar, one egg, V2 cupful 
lard, creamed together. Slowly and al- 
ternately add one large cupful milk, 2 V2 
cupfuls flour sifted with salt, V2 tea- 
spoonful soda, 1 teaspoonful of tartar. 

Mix all together well, then add V2 
cupful of broken walnut meats. Drop 
by teaspoonful on to long baking pans, 
sprinkle with sugar and bake in hot 
oven. 

Snowballs* 

One quart of milk heated to scalding 
point; dissolve in it 1 tablespoon of but- 
ter, 1 of salt, 2 of granulated sugar; 
cool until lukewarm and have ready Vz 
a yeastcake dissolved in a little warm 
water. Add the whites of 2 eggs beaten 
stiff, and gradually add enough flour to 
form a soft dough. Knead well for 15 
minutes and set to rise over night. Mold 
into very small rolls, let rise again, and 
bake in a hot oven. 

English Crumpets. 

One cake of compressed yeast, V2 a 
cup of lukewarm water, 1 cup of scalded 
and cooled milk, 2 tablespoonfuls of 
butter, 1 % cups of bread flour, V2 a 
teaspoonful of salt, 1 % cups of bread 
flour. 

Soften the yeast in the lukewarm 
water, and add to the milk in which the 
butter has been melted; stir in the cup 
and a half of flour, then beat until very 
smooth, and set aside to become light, 
then add the salt and the rest of the 
flour and beat again until very smooth. 
When again light tui-n into buttered 
rings, set on a well greased griddle; 



(Continued on Page 22) 



THE MILKY WAY TO ECONOMY 21 

"Why so much milk? The price of milk has advanced in the last 
few years and many people regard it as an expensive luxury. As a mat- 
ter of fact, the liberal use of milk is the best device for reducing the total 
expenditure for food, provided it is used as it should be, as a substitute 
for meat, fish, and eggs. It is not overstating the matter to say that 
the smaller the amount of money which can be expended for food the 
more important it becomes that a suitable amount of milk shall be 
used, if the diet is to be well balanced. If the breakfast food is cooked 
in milk, and milk is served liberally with it, the meal is well balanced 
without the use of eggs or meat. If the milk is used in the preparation 
of desserts, such as Indian pudding or cornstarch pudding, or if the 
vegetable is creamed or scalloped, it is not necessary that meat, eggs, or 
fish should be served so liberally in the main course at dinner, as is the 
custom in many families. 

MILK HELPS TO BUILD MUSCLE. 

For this purpose it is as good as meat ; meat is dear ; whole milk is 
cheap. For the body-building of children, milk is better than any kind 
of meat. The part of the milk most like meat is the curd, which may be 
made into cottage cheese. 

A cup and a quarter of milk or a quarter of a cup of cottage 
cheese will yield as much body-building material as two ounces of lean 
meat, and will go much farther toward making a complete diet. 

MILK GIVES WORKING FORCE. 

Everyone must have energy to live, and the more one works the 
more "fuel" he needs for his body "engine." Many kinds of food are 
good fuel — bread, meat, butter, sugar — but none is better than milk. 
A quart of milk yields as much energy as nine eggs or three- 
quarters of a pound of meat, at a much lower cost. 

MILK CONTAINS SPECIAL GROWTH-PROMOTING SUBSTANCES 

CALLED VITAMINES. 

We know two such substances and both are found in milk, one most- 
ly in the cream and the other in the skim milk. Unless a child has both 
of these, he will not develop properly. They are not found in all kinds 
of food. The best way to be sure they are provided in the diet is to use 
a liberal supply of milk. Eggs have the same two substances but they 
are much more expensive than milk. 

Milk is only a liquid until it is taken into the stomach, then it be- 
comes a solid. 

Milk is Nature's own food for the young. As a mother you should 
see to it that your children have plenty milk. 

To decrease your bills for food increase your milk bill, this will not 
lessen but add to the nourishment needed by your family. 

Clean, fresh pasteurized milk has done more to reduce infant mor- 
tality than any other one factor. 

Young children should not be given "tastes" of foods prepared for 
older people. Keep your children on a simple diet and they will be con- 
tent with it. 

Milk is milk whether taken as such or eaten as junket, custard or 
cooked in soups or cereals. 

(Continued on Page 23) 



22 



THE MILKY WAY TO ECONOMY 



when they are broAvned on one side, 
turn ring to brown the other side. When 
baked the crumpets should be about 
two-thirds of an inch thiclc. 

Cornmeal Muffins. 

Three-fourths cup cornmeal, 1 1/4 cups 
flour, 1/2 teaspoon salt, 4 level tea- 
spoons baking powder, 2 tablespoons 
sugar, 1 cup milk, 2 tablespoons butter. 

Mix thoroughly dry ingredients; add 
milk and melted butter and beat well. 
Bake in greased muffin tins in hot oven 
about 20 minutes. 
Oatmeal or Hominy Muffins. 

One cup cooked oatmeal or cooked 
hominy, 11/2 cups flour, 2 tablespoons 
sugar, 4 teaspoons baking powder, V2 
teaspoon salt, V2 cup of milk, 1 egg, 2 
tablespoons melted butter. 

Mix and sift flour, sugar, salt and 
baking powder; add one-half of the 
milk, the egg well beaten, the remaind- 
er of the milk mixed with oatmeal or 
hominy, and beat thoroughly; then add 
butter. Bake in greased muffin rings 
placed in greased pan or bake in greased 
gem pans. 

Cereal Muffins. 

One-half cup cooked cereal (left- 
over), 11/2 cups flour, 6 level teaspoons 
baking powder, V2 teaspoon salt, 1 ta- 
blespoon butter, 1 cup milk. 

Mix well the flour, baking powder 
and salt. Add milk to the cooked cereal 
and then stir it into the flour, baking 
powder an'd salt. Then add the melted 
butter. Bake in hot oven for 20 to 30 
minutes. You can use buttered muffin 
pans or bake in one loaf. 
Rye Muffins. 

Delicious breakfast muffins can be 
made by substituting rye flour for three- 
fourths of the wheat flour in any good 
recipe. The following is a good, eco- 
nomical recipe for rye muffins; 1 y2 cups 
sifted rye flour, V2 cup wheat flour, 1 
tablespoonful butter, melted, 1 egg, 1 
cup milk, V2 teaspoonful salt, 4 tea- 
spoonfuls baking powder. 
Barley Muffins. 

Sift together one cup, each, of pastry 
flour and barley meal, one-foui'th cup 
of sugar, four teaspoonfuls of baking 
powder and half a teaspoonful of salt. 
Beat one egg; add nearly a cup of milk 
and stir into the dry ingredients with 
three or four tablespoonfuls of melted 
butter. Bake about twenty-five minutes 
in a hot, well greased iron muffin pan. 
Breakfast Muffins. 

Two cups flour, 4 level teaspoons 
baking powder, 1 teaspoon salt, 1 table- 
spoon sugar, 1 egg, 1 cup milk, 1 full 
tablespoon butter. 



Sift dry ingredients together, being 
sure they are thoroughly mixed. Beat 
the egg, add it to the milk and turn 
into the bowl containing the dry ingredi- 
ents. Add the butter and cut all to- 
gether very quickly. Do not beat. Turn 
into muffin pans greased with butter^ 
and bake in a moderately hot oven 
about 25 minutes. 

Bread Crumb Muffins. 

Three cups crumbs, 2^2 cups milk, 1 
cup flour, 3 eggs, 1 tablespooniul melted 
butter, 2 teaspoonfuls baking powder, 
% teaspoonful salt. 

Pour milk on crumbs, let it stand till 
soft, or about 15 minutes, then beat 
with egg beater and add beaten egg- 
yolks, flour, salt, baking powder and 
melted butter. Last, fold in the stiffly 
beaten whites. Bake in buttered muf- 
fin tins in quick oven about 20 minutes. 

Berry Muffins. 

One pint flour, V2 teaspoonful salt^ 
3 level teaspoonfuls baking powder, % 
cup sugar, 1 egg, 1 scant cup milk, 2 
teaspoonfuls butter, 1 heaping cup blue 
or huckleberries. 

Sift and measure the flour, sift in 
the salt and baking powder, add the su- 
gar and mix thoroughly. Beat the egg 
until light, add the milk and butter and 
stir this into the dry mixture. Beat 
thoroughly and lastly stir in the berries 
which have been washed, dried and 
sprinkled with flour. Bake in muffin 
pans about twenty minutes. 

Rice Muffins. 

One-half cup cornmeal, 1 cup pastry 
flour, V2 teaspoonful salt, 4 (level) tea- 
spoonfuls baking powder, 2 tablespoon- 
fuls sugar, 1 cup boiled rice, 1 egg and 
1 yolk, V2 cup milk, 3 tablespoonfuls 
melted butter. 

Sift together the dry ingredients and 
add the rice. Beat the eggs, add the 
milk and stir into the dry ingredients 
with the melted butter. Bake in a hot 
well-buttered, iron muffin pan about 
twenty-five minutes. The rice should 
be boiled tender and be quite moist. A 
half cup of flour may be used in place 
of the cornmeal. ^ 

Graham Muffins (14 Muffins) 

One cup graham flour, 1 cup white 
flour, 1/4 cup sugar, 4 teaspoons bak- 
ing powder, 1 teaspoon salt, 1 cup milk, 
1 egg, 2 tablespoons melted butter. 

Sift together the salt, sugar, baking 
powder and white flour. Add graham 
flour, and mix well. Beat egg, add to 
milk, and add these to the dry materials. 
Add melted butter. Bake in a hot oven, 
in greased muffin tins for about twenty- 
five miniutes. ,.. . 



(Continuied on Page 24) 



THE MILKY WAY TO ECONOMY 23 

HOW TO USE MILK. 

Many people think of milk only as a beverage. Remember that 
it is a real food no matter how it is taken. Bread and milk will make 
an excellent meal. The milk may be heated and salted, the bread 
toasted, and the two combined to make "milk toast." The flavor will 
be different bat the nutritive value will be practically the same. 

White sauce is one of the most useful ways of putting milk into 
the daily ration. Thin white sauce is made as follows : 

Milk 1 cup 

Flour 1 tablespoon 

Fat 1 tablespoon 

Salt Vz teaspoon 

All measurements are level. Melt the fat in a saucepan, stir in the 
flour, add the cold milk quickly, and stir constantly till the sauce boils. 
Then cook gently for three minutes. 

This sauce may be poured over hot toast, making "creamed toast." 
It may be combined with sifted vegetable pulp, to make cream soup, 
potato soup, tomato soup, pea soup, etc. 

By doubling the amount of flour and fat used to a cup of milk, a 
thicker sauce is made, which is excellent to pour over vegetables, mak- 
ing creamed carrots, creamed potatoes, creamed peas, etc. These are 
substantial dishes which will serve as the main dish in a meal. 

For using up bits of meat or making meat go further white sauce 
is most practical. Creamed fish, creamed minced meat on toast, hard- 
cooked eggs served in cream sauce are all wholesome and good. 

Cheese may be added to the sauce before combining it with cooked 
rice, hominy, or cornmeal mush, making a still more substantial kind of 
dish, which will take the place of meat. 

DON'T LET MILK SPOIL 

Whole milk, skim milk, and buttertnilk are highly nourishing and 
valuable foods. 

These foods spoil quickly when allowed to get warm or when ex- 
posed to bacteria and molds present in the dust and the air. 

Be Sure Your Milk is Clean and Fresh. 

If you live in the city, buy it pasteurized from a clean dairy. In the 
country see that your cows and milkers are clean and healthy. 

There is no substitute for whole fresh milk as a food. You cannot 
afford to experiment with your child'.s health. 

The best nourished families are those that eat plenty dairy prod- 
ucts ?s milk, butter and cieam cheese. 

KEEP MILK CONTINUOUSLY CLEAN, COLD, AND COVERED. 

This injunction applies equally to the producer, the wholesaler, the 
dealer, and the consumer. 

Unclean milk sent from the farm sours and spoils more quickly 
than clean milk. Pasteurization makes milk safe. 

Milk, to keep properly, should never get warmer than 50 degrees 
F. until it is consumed. The lower the temperature the better the milk 
will keep. 

(Continued on Page 27) 



24 



THE MILKY WAY TO ECONOMY 



MUFFINS, GEMS, 
(Sour 
Gems Made of Sour Milk. 

Two cups sour milk, one egg, spoon- 
ful sugar, one-half teaspoon of salt, one 
teaspoon of soda and two large cups of 
flour. Bake 15 minutes. 

Oatmeal Rolls. 

1 2-3 cups rolled oats, 2 cups sour 
milk, salt, 2 tablespoons sugar, mix and 
let stand over night. In the morning 
add 1 cup flour, 1 egg, 1 tablespoon 
melted butter, 1 heaping teaspoon soda. 
Bake in roll pan. 

Grahani* Rolls. 

Two cups sour milk, 1 egg, 2 tea- 
spoons soda, 2 cups graham, pinch of 
salt, 4 tablespoons melted butter. 

Cinnamon Rolls. 

Cream % cup of shortening with 1 
cup sugar, add 1 cup of sour milk, 1 
teaspoonful soda, and just enough flour 
to roll. Roll out and sprinkle with 
dessertspoonful of cinnamon and sugar, 
mixed, roll up and cut V2 inch thick. 
Bake in a quick oven. 

Emergency Biscuits. 

Two cups flour, 1 tablespoon butter, 
1 cup thick sour milk, 1 teaspoon salt, 
% teaspoon soda. 

Sift flour, salt and soda well together 
Rub in the butter with a spoon. Add 
the milk and stir lightly. The dough 
should be soft. Drop by spoonfuls into 
greased muff'in tins and bake in a hot 
over about twenty minutes. 

Sour Milk Biscuit. 

Use 1 teaspoon soda to a large cup 
of sour milk. Shorten with a little 
cream or butter and mix enough flour 
for soft dough. 

Rye Rolls. 

One and one-half cups sifted rye 
meal, V2 cup white flour, 1 teaspoonful 
salt, 1 tablespoonful melted butter, ^A 
cup sugar, 1 cup sour milk (or butter- 



ROLLS, BISCUITS 
Milk) 

milk), 1 egg, well beaten, 1 teaspoonful 
baking soda, dissolved in lukewarm 
water. • 

Bake in hot roll tins thirty minutes. 

Buttermilk Biscuits. 

One cup buttermilk, 1 tablespoon 
shortening, 1 teaspoon cream of tartar^ 
1 teaspoon soda, i/4 teaspoon salt, 1 
tablespoon sugar, flour to mould soft. 
Cut with very little handling in small 
round. Bake in quick oven. 

Barley Scones. 

Sift together one cup of wheat and 
barley flour, one-fourth a teaspoonful 
of soda, four teaspoonfuls of baking 
powder, half a teaspoonful of salt and 
two tablespoonfuls of sugar. With two> 
knives, cut in two tablespoonfuls of 
butter, then mix to a dough with one 
cup of thick, sour cream. Turn on a 
floured board with a knife, to coat 
slightly with flour, knead to get inta 
shape, pat and roll into a sheet half an 
inch thick, cut into diamond shapes and 
set in a buttered pan. Brush over with 
sweet milk, dredge with granulated su- 
gar and bake in a quick oven. Split 
the scones, spread one-half with butter, 
the other with raspberry jam or orange 
marmalade and press the corresponding- 
halves together. Serve hot. 

Corn Pone. 

Two cups white cornmeal, 1 teaspoon 
salt, V2 teaspoon soda, 1 cup buttermilk, 
V2 cup water, 2 tablespoons melted but- 
ter. 

Sift meal, salt and soda together, 
then stir into this the buttermilk and 
water; add the melted butter and beat 
until smooth. Wet the hands in cold 
water and shape the mixture intO' 
small pones. Brush a griddle or pan 
with melted fat and let get smoking hot,, 
then place the pones on it. Bake in a 
moderately hot oven until thoroughly 
done and brown. 



CAKES AND COOKIES 



(Sweet 

Gold Cake. 

Two cups not quite full of flour, the 
yolks of 4 eggs, V2 cup butter, V2 cup 
sweet milk, 1 cup sugar, V2 teaspoon 
soda, 1 teaspoon cream tartar. Flavor 
to taste. 

Silver Cake. 

Two cups flour, the white of 4 eggs, 
1 cup sugar, V2 cup sweet milk, 1 tea- 
spoonful cream tartar, V2 teaspoonful 
soda. Flavor to taste. 



Milk) 
White Cake. 

Two eggs, 1 cup sugar, V2 cup milk, 4 
level tablespoons or i/4 cup butter, 2: 
cups flour, V2 teaspoon salt, 1 teaspoon 
soda, 2 teaspoons cream tartar. Sift 
flour once, measure, add soda and 
cream tartar, and sift 4 times. Separate 
yolks and whites and beat whites to a 
stiff froth. Cream the yolks, sugar 
and butter, beating thoroughly, add 



(Continued on Page 25) 



THE MILKY WAY TO ECONOMY 



25 



milk and flour gradually, and last, fold 
in the whites of eggs and beat about 2 
minutes. 

Strawberry Short Cake. 

One quart fiour, 2 teaspoons baking 
powder, % cup butter, 2 tablespoons 
sugar, a little salt, enough milk to 
make a soft dough. Roll out almost as 
thin as pie crust, put 1 layer in a pan, 
spread on butter and sprinkle over a 
little flour. This makes 4 layers. Bake 
in hot oven about 15 minutes. Spread 
each layer and the top with mashed 
berries well sweetened. Serve jwith 
whipped cream. 

French Cake. * 

Two cups sugar, V2 cup butter, 1 cup 
sweet milk, 3 cups flour, 2 teaspoonfuls 
cream of tartar, 1 teaspoonful soda, 
3 eggs. 

Marble Cake. 

Light layers; 1 cup sugar, V2 cup 
butter, 1 V4 flour, 2 eggs, the whites, V2 
cup milk, 1 teaspoon baking powder, % 
nutmeg. Dark layers; V2 cup brown 
sugar, V2 cup butter, 2 cups flour, 1 
teaspoon baking powder, V2 cup mo- 
lasses, V2 cup milk, 1 teaspoon cloves 
and cinnamon, 2 eggs, the yolks. 

Sponge Cake. 

One cup sugar beaten with 2 eggs, 
1 V2 cups flour with 1 teaspoonful cream 
tartar, V2 teaspoonful soda, sifted to- 
gether, beaten with sugar and eggs, ^/^ 
cup hot milk with 1 teaspoon butter in 
milk, beat and add % teaspoonful lem- 
on or vanilla. 

Fruit Cake. 

Four eggs, 5 cups flour, 2 cups sugar, 
1 cup of molasses, 1 % cups butter, 1 
cup sweet milk, 1 pound stoned raisins, 
chopped fine, 1 cup currants, 1 cup 
citron, 1 teaspoon soda, 1 teaspoon 
clove, cassia and allspice. 

Delicious Cake. 

Two cups sugar, 1 cup butter, 1 
cup sweet milk, 3 cups flour, 3 eggs, 1 
teaspoon cream of tartar, V2 teaspoon 
soda, nutmeg; beat butter and sugar 
together, add yolks of eggs, then the 
whites; dissolve soda in milk; mix 
cream of tartar with flour. Frost 
with chocolate. 

Blueberry Cake. 

One cup sugar, V2 cup butter, ^^^ cup 
hot milk, 1 teaspoon cream tartar, Vz 
teaspoon soda, 1 egg, 2 cups flour, 1 
cup blueberries. 

Caramel Cake. 

One square chocolate, V2 cup of 
sweet milk, yolk of 1 egg. Boil this 



mixture until soft. When cool add: Vz 
cup butter, V2 cup sour milk, 2 scant 
cups sugar, 2 eggs, 2 cups flour, 1 tea- 
spoonful soda, 1 teaspoonful vanilla. 
(This is not quite as thick as common 
cake). 

Bridal Cake. 

One cup sugar, V2 cup butter 
creamed with sugar, V2 cup milk, 2 
cups flour, 1 teaspoonful cream of tar- 
tar, V2 teaspoonful soda and whites of 
3 eggs. Add milk and flour alternately 
to butter and sugar. (The cream of tar- 
tar and soda have of course been 
sifted into the flour.) Last, add the 
well-beaten whites and 1 teaspoonful 
of vanilla. 
Walnut Cake. 

One-half cup butter, 2 cups sugar, 3 
eggs, beaten, 1 cup milk, 2% cups 
flour, 1 teaspoon cream tartar, V2 tea- 
spoon soda, 1 cup chopped walnuts, 1 
teaspoon vanilla. 

One Egg Cake. 

One cup sugar, butter size of egg, 1 
egg, 1 cup milk, salt, vanilla, 2 tea- 
spoons baking powder, 2 cups flour, 
i.lay be baked in layers with various 
fillings and icings. 

Boiled Milk Cake. 

Place over the fire V2 cupful milk, a 
piece of butter the size of a walnut. 
Beat 2 eggs with 1 cup sugar, add 1 cup 
flour sifted with 1 teaspoon baking: 
powder. Stir into this a pinch of salt 
and add the warm milk last. Bake in 
unite a hot oven for about 30 minutes. 

Jelly Roll. 

Two eggs, 1 cup sugar, 6 table- 
spoons sweet milk, 1 teaspoon cream 
tartar, V2 teaspoon soda, 1 ¥2 cups 
flour, lemon or vanilla to flavor. Bake 
in a quick oven. Spread with jelly and 
roll while hot. 
Patriotic Birthday Cake. 

One cup sugar half cup butter, half 
cup sweet milk, two cups flour, two 
teaspoons baking powder, whites of 
four eggs beaten stiff stirred in last. 
Bake in two tins. Filling: Half cup 
sugar, two tablespoons water; boil until 
it threads from spoon. Beat in this one 
v-hite of egg stiffly beaten, then add 
one-foarth cup chopped meat nuts and 
one-fourth cup chopped raisins. Spread 
between layers. Icing: One cup pow- 
dered sugar, half teaspoon vanilla; add 
milk so it will spread. Divide icing in- 
to three parts. Add red and blue vege- 
table colors to form stripes and blue 
field for stars. Take white icing and 
drop on blue field, forming stars with a 
toothpick. 



(Continued on Page 26) 



26 



THE MILKY WAY TO ECONOMY 



Oatme?! Cookies (20 cookies). 

One egg, % cup sugar, V2 cup milk, 
14 cup water, 2 cups flour, 2 teaspoon 
baking powder, 1 teaspoon salt, 1 cup 
raisiiis, 5 tablespoons melted butter, V2 
cup fine oatmeal. 

Sift together the flour, baking pow- 
der and salt. Add the oatmeal. Beat 
the egg, add sugar, water and milk, dry 
ingredients mixed together, raisins, and 
melted butter. Drop from spoon on 
greased baking sheet and bake in mod- 
erate oven. 

Molasses Cookies. 

One-half cup sugar, V2 cup molasses, 
V2 cup butter, 1 egg, 1 teaspoonful soda 
in 2 tablespoons sweet milk, 1 table- 
spoonful ginger or some other spice, a 
little salt, flour to mix quite stiff. 

Sugar Cookies. 

One cup sugar, 2-3 cup butter, 2 
eggs, scant V2 cup sweet milk, 2 tea- 
spoons cream tartar, 1 teaspoon soda, 
1 teaspoon vanilla, nice with filling. 

Sally Lunn. 

One egg, butter the size of an 'egg, 
V2 cap of sugar, scant, 1 cup milk, 1 
pint flour with V2 teaspoon soda, 1 
teaspoon cream tartar sifted into it. 
Eaten hot with butter. 

■Popovers TSat Always Pop. 

Beat 1 egg till light with egg beater, 
add 1 cup of miilk and 1 cup of sifted 
pas ry ilour, pinch of salt. Stir to- 
gether quickly till lumps are out, put ia 
hot buttered gem pans and bake in hot 
oven till well browned. 

Cream Pufts. 

Boil co£,ether 1 cup of watti, Mr cup 
butter. While boiling add 1 cup flour, 
stir smooth, and drop on pan far 
apart. Bake carefully as they brown 
easily. 

Cream for Filling. 

One-half cup sugar, 2 teaspoons 
flour, 1 egg. Pour into 1 cup of boiling 
milk, flavor, when cool cut open puffs 
and fill. 

Mocha Cake. 

One cup sugar, one-half cup butter, 
one cup of milk, two eggs, two cups 
flour, two teaspoonfuls baking powder. 
Rub butter and sugar to a cream, add 
yolks of eggs, well beaten, then add the 
milk. Sift flour and baking powder to- 
gether and mix with eggs and sugar. 
Finally add the whites of eggs well 
beaten. Bake in layers. 

Filling for Mocha Cake. 

One tablespoonful of butter, 2 table- 



spoonfuls of boiling coffee, 1 teaspoon- 
ful of vanilla, 2 teaspoonfuls of cocoa, 
1 cup confectionery sugar or a little 
more until it is right to spread. 

Wonder Cake. • 

One cup sugar, 1 egg, i/4 cup but- 
ter, one cup sour milk, one teaspoon 
soda, one-half teaspoon cinnamon and 
cloves, a little nutmeg, one cup raisins 
or dates, two cups flour. Sweet milk 
can be us^ in place of sour, using one- 
half teaspoon soda and one teaspoon 
cream of tartar. My last way is to use 
one cup of 'sirup in place of sugar, one 
cup sweet milk and one teaspoon soda. 

Chocolate Cake. 

One cup sugar, 1 egg, V2 cup t^our 
milk, 2 tablespoons cocoa, 1 teaspoon 
soda, 1 teaspoon lemon, 2 cups flour, ^ 
cup butter^, last thing i/4 cup boiling 
water. 

Molasses Plum Cake. 

One cup molasses, 1 cup sour milk, 
V2 cup butter, 1 cup raisins, 1 egg, 1 
teaspoon soda, spice of all kinds. 

Brown Sugar Cake. 

One-half cup lard, 1 ^/^ cups brown 
sugar, 1 egg, 1 cup sour milk, V2 tea- 
spoon cinnamon and nutmeg, 1 level 
teaspoon soda, 2 cups flour. 

Sour Cream Cake. 

One cup sour cream, 1 cup sugar, 2 
cups flour, 1 egg, teaspoon each of soda 
and cream of tartar, salt and flavoring. 
This cake never fails. Can be used 
plain or as marble cake, with table- 
spoonful of cocoa in part of dough, as 
gingerbread with ginger and caraway 
seeds, with chopped figs and dates, va- 
nilla and cinnamon, with raisins and 
nuts, nutmeg and cinnamon, as a layer 
cake, plain or with cocoa or as ribbon 
cake. 

Sour Cream Sponge Cake. 

Bread 2 eggs into a cup and fill with 
sour cream, 1 cup sugar, 1 even tea- 
spoon soda, 1 heaping teaspoon cream 
tartar. Put eggs and cream, sugar, 
and soda in a mixing dish together, and 
beat a few minutes, mix cream tartar 
with 1 V2 CUDS flour, add a little salt. 
Flavor wiLh lemon. 

Buttermilk Hermits. 

With 1 V2 cups sugar blend V2 cup 
butter, add 2 beaten eggs, V2 cup but- 
termilk, 1 teaspoonful soda, one cinna- 
mon, V2 teaspoonful of cloves, % nut- 
meg and 1 cup chopped raisins. Flour 
to roll. Cut in squares and bake. 

Eggless Chocolate Cake. 

One cup of brown sugar, one table- 



(Continued on Page 28) 



THE MILKY WAY TO ECONOMY . 27 

KEEP MILK CONTINUOUSLY CLEAN, COLD AND COVERED 

(Continued.) 

Don't leave your milk bottles on a hot porch or doorstep. A short ex- 
posure in the sun or in a waiTn place hastens the spoiling even of cold, 
bottled milk. 

Have the bottles left in the coolest and shadiest place about your 
premises. 

Don't leave milk in bottles or vessels in a warm room for a moment 
longer than is necessary. 

Never pour milk, which has been exposed to the air, back into a 
botle containing other milk. Keep such milk cold and covered in another 
clean utensil. 

Keep milk clean. You can keep it clean only by keeping it covered 
so that the bacteria and molds from the air will not get into it. 

Keep your milk bottles covered either with caps or by placing clean 
glasses over them. Keep them covered in the refrigerator and in the 
kitchen or dining room. 

Never pour milk into an unsterile bowl or pitcher. 

Scald all vessels into which milk is poured for keeping or serving. 
Cool these utensils after scalding, before you put milk into them. 

Before you open a bottle of milk, wash and wipe the outside of the 
cap with water and a clean cloth. The little depression at the top of 
the bottle collects dust or water, or milk, which may attract flies. Lift 
out the cap with a pointed instrument, so that the outside of the cap, 
Which may be contaminated, will not be pushed down into the milk. 

Clean and scald the refrigerator where milk is stored, regularly with 
hot sal-soda solution. See that the drip pipe is kept open and clean. 

Even in the cleanest refrigerator, never keep milk in an open vessel. 
Milk absorbs odors easily. 

If there are babies or little children in your home, clean, cold, 
covered milk is absolutely essential. 

CREAM VERSUS 1C0NES 

A woman who is the mother of five splendid children, told me not 
long ago that it became necessary for her to take some means to pre- 
vent her children from spending money to buy ice cream cones. These 
cones she considered neither healthful nor wholesome. 

Finally she hit upon a plan that satisfied their sweet tooth and not 
only made for better health, but also gave a great deal of enjoyment. The 
plan is that the children save their pennies to buy cream, which 
she chills well and whips slowly in order to increase the amount. This 
she serves with a simple dessert, and the fact that the children have 
bought the cream adds greatly to their happiness. In addition once a 
week she makes ice cream or milk sherbet. 

Gertrude Ford Daniel. 

WAYS OF USING MORE MILK 

Cereals Cooked in Milk — Cornmeal, oatmeal, and rice are delicious 
cooked in skim milk. Use the same amount of milk as you would water 
for oatmeal and corn meal. For rice, you can well use a good deal 
more milk — four or even more cups of milk to one of rice. Cook for 
an hour in a double boiler. This makes a delicious creamy cereal. For 
milk cereal puddings add sugar or sirup and raisins. 

(Continued on Page SO) 



28 



THE MILKY WAY TO ECONOMY 



spoon of butter, one-fourth cup of 
cocoa, one-fourth cup of boiling water, 
V2 cup of sour milk, V2 teaspoon of 
soda, 1 % cups of flour and one tea- 
spoon of vanilla. Mix sugar, butcer and 
cocoa and add boiling water. Add soda 
to flour and milk alternately to sugar 
mixture. Add vanilla. Bake in layers 
in a moderately hot oven about 30 
minutes. 

Buttermilk Cake. 

Two cups brown sugar, V2 cup but- 
ter, 14 cup nuts, 3 V2 cups flour, 2 cups 
buttermilk, 2 teaspoonfuls soda, 1 cup 
raisins, 1 teaspoonful, each, of cloves, 
cinnamon and nutmeg. 

Cream sugar and butter; add to this 
the dry ingredients which have been 
sifted together and the buttermilk. 
Lastly, the raisins which have been 
chopped and the broken nut meats. 
Bake in a slow oven. 

Molasses Cookies. 

One and one-half cups of molasses, 
one cup brown sugar, one egg, one cup 
of melted butter. Stir all together and 



add one cup of sour milk, one heaping 
tablespoon of soda, and one tables- 
spoon of vinegar. Beat well until soda 
stops purring, then add one tablespoon 
of ginger and cinnamon and flour to- 
roll. Bake in quick oven. 

No-Egg Cookies. 

Two cups of sugar, % cup of butter^ 
1 cup sour milk, 1 teaspoon soda, and 
flour enough to roll. Can also be made 
with sweet milk, substituting baking 
powder for soda and cream of tartar in- 
stead of the plain soda. 

Cornmeal Cookies. 

One-half cup melted butter, V2 cup 
molasses, V2 cup corn syrup, 1 egg, Q 
tablespoons sour milk, % teaspoon 
soda, 2 cups cornmeal, 1 cup wheat 
flour. 

Combine the melted butter, molasses, 
syrup, beaten egg and milk. Sift the 
dry ingredients and combine with the 
liquid. Drop from a teaspoon onto a 
greased pan and bake in a moderate 
oven for 15 minutes. This makes .55 to 
60 cookies about 2 inches in diameter. 



ICINGS AND FILLINGS FOR CAKE 



Confectioner's Icing. 

Sift two cups of confectioner's sugar 
into a bowl; add half a teaspoonful of 
vanilla extract and stir in cream or 
milk, a few drops at a time, until the 
right consistency is secured. 

Sour Cream Frosting. 

One cup sour cream, 2 cups powdered 
sugar, Vs cup chopped nuts or raisins, 
V4, teaspoon vanilla. Boil as you do 
fudge, then beat. 

Sour Cream Filling for Cakes. 

Sweeten and chill a cup of sour 
cream. Whip it, keeping it cold while 
doing so. When stiff add a cup of 
chopped nuts. If cream does not be- 
come stiff", add one teaspoon of melted 
gelatine at the last and set on ice. 
Makes an excellent filling for layer 
cakes. 

Cream Filling. 

Boil one pint of milk. Beat two eggs; 
add half a cup of sugar and one salt- 
spoonful of salt. Melt one tablespoon 
of butter and add two tablespocnfuls of 
fiour. When well mixed, ndd the boil- 
ing milk gradually, pour it on the eggs 
and sugar, and cook in double boiler 
five minutes or till smooth. When cool 
flavor with lemon, vanilla or almond. 



Orange and Cocoanut Filling. 

One egg beaten well ; add one cup of 
whipped cream, half a cup of sugar, one 
cup of grated cocoanut, the grated rind 
of half and the juice of one orange. 
Put this between the top of the cakes 
and sprinkle fresh cocoanut over the 
whole. 



Caramel Frosting. 

Three cups of confectioner's sugar, 1 
cup of cream, 1 heaping tablespoon but- 
ter. Boil them in saucepan without 
stirring until, when dropped in cold 
water, it is hard enough to be waxy. 
Stir only on bottom to keep from burn- 
ing. Set pan in cold water, as it hard- 
ens, spread it on the cake while it is 
still soft enough to spread. It will 
settle into a smooth sui'face instantly. 

Cocoa Filling. 

One-half cup cocoa, one-half cup su- 
gar, one-half cup milk, one tablespoon 
flour, one egg, one-quarter teaspoon 
salt. Mix cocoa, sugar, milk together, 
put on to boil; mix flour with a little 
cold milk until smooth, add one well- 
beaten egg and salt, add to boiling 
cocoa and milk; boil 10 minutes, stir- 
ring constantly. Set aside until cold. 



(Continued on Page 29) 



THE MILKY WAY TO ECONOMY 



29 



PIES 



Lemon Pie. 

One cup sugar, butter half as large 
,as an egg, cream sugar and butter to- 
gether, 2 eggs separated, beat whites to 
a stiff frotli, 1 cup sweet milk, yolks of 
2 eggs, beaten with milk, juice and rind 
of 1 lemon, beat these all together then 
beat whites in last. Bake crust before 
adding the filling. 

Pumpkin Pie. 

One quart of milk, 1 or 2 eggs, 1 
pint sifted pumkin, 3 tablespoons mo- 
lasses, Vz cup sugar, pinch of salt, V2 
teaspoon of ginger or cassia. This 
makes 2 pies. 

Cream Pie. 

Make good, rich crust as for custard 
pie, when cool fill with the following: 1 
pint mlik, 3 tablespoons sugar, yolks 
' of 2 eggs, 1 V2 tablespoons cornstarch, a 
small piece of butter, salt. Put in 
double boiler and cook until thick. 
Flavor with 1 teaspoon vanilla. Use 
whites for frosting. 

Date Pie. 

Stone 1- large cup of dates and cook 
until soft in enough hot water to cover 
them. Then add 2 spoons of sugar, 1 
cup of rich milk, small bit of butter, 1 
egg, 1 spoon flour. Put whipped cream 
or frosting on top. 

Chocolate Pie. 

Three cups milk, 3 eggs, V2 cup su- 
gar, 1 V2 squares chocolate, 1 table- 
spoon flour, vanilla if desired. Take 
the chocolate, half the sugar, and 2 
tablespoons milk and place over steam 
to melt together. Scald the rest of the 
milk. When chocolate is melted 
smoothly, add slowly, the hot milk, 
then stir in the rest of the sugar, 
thoroughly mixed with the flour, aod let 



thicken in the double boiler a few min- 
utes. Beat slightly, 1 whole egg and 
yolks of two and add. Pour into the 
crust and bake. The flour used will not 
thicken the mixture much but helps to 
make the custard smooth and pre- 
vents wheying. Frost with 2 remain- 
ing whites, sweeten and flavor. 

Banana Pie. 

Bake a crust and let cool, slice into 
it two bananas, scald 1 cup of milk and 
stir into it V2 cup sugar 2 tablespoons 
of flour and yolks of 2 eggs. Cook un- 
til thick. Cool, turn into the crust, 
frost with the whites of the eggs. 

Squash Pie. 

One cup squash, 1 V2 cups milk, 2: 
common crackers, 1 egg, V2 cup sugar, 
salt, 1 teaspoon cassia. 

Sour Milk Lemon Pie. 

One cup of sour milk, two-thirds cup' 
of sugar, one egg, grated rind and juice 
of one lemon, one tablespoon of butter, 
two tablespoons of cornstarch. Add the 
sugar to the sour milk. Stir while heat- 
ing. When hot add the thickening, 
which has been mixed with a little sour 
milk, and cook until thick. Then add 
lemon, egg yolk and butter and cook 
again to thicken the egg yolk. Mix the 
egg white with one tablespoon of sugar 
and heat until glazed. Then bake in a 
slow oven for 35 minutes. 

Buttermilk Pie. 

Cover a deep plate with good pie 
crust and fill with following filling: 
Yolks of 2 eggs, 1 cup of sugar, pinch 
of salt, 2 rounding tablespoonfuls of 
flour and dessertspoonful of extract of 
lemon. Mix thoroughly and add 1 V2 
cups of buttermilk. Bake in the usual 
way and frost with whites of 2 eggs. 
Brown in the oven a few minutes. To 
be eaten cold. 



PUDDINGS 



To freshen up rice or bread puddings. 
Remove crust from yesterday's pudding 
and turn the pudding into smaller dish. 
Add hot milk and (to a bread-pudding) 
fresh crumbs for top, dotted over with 
butter. Bake again. Rice pudding may 
be reheated with hot milk, or if to be 
served cold, covered with a meringue 
flavored with lemon juice and browned. 
Bread Pudding. 

Two and one-half cups bread crumbs, 
1 cup milk, 1 cup water, 4 tablespoons 
sugar, 1/4 teaspoon vanilla, V2 teaspoon 
salt, Vs teaspoon nutmeg, Vs teaspoon 
cinnamon. 

Scald milk and pour over bread 
crumbs. Add sugar, water and salt, va- 
nilla and spices. Mix well together. 



and bake for about one hour in a mod- 
erate oven. Serve with fruit sauce. 
Fruit sauce was made by adding to a 
clear sauce some left over raisins,, 
peaches and orange peel. 

Chocolate Bread Pudding. 

One quart milk, 1 pint bread crumbs,. 

V2 cup sugar, 1 tablespoon butter, 5 
tablespoons grated chocolate. Cook all 
together in a double boiler until bread 
is soft and chocolate melted. Then stir 
in 2 well-beaten eggs, and bake in pud- 
ding dish 1 V2 hours. Make a sauce of 
1 cup of sugar heated to the boiling 
point, in ^^ cup of water, then pour it 

over well-beaten whites of 2 eggs, beat 
thoroughly and flavor. 



(Continued on Page 32) 



30 



THE MILKY WAY TO ECONOMY 



REFRIGERATORS 

Never permit a day's supply of milk to stand in the sun. An hour of 
this treatment will ruin the best milk possible to produce. It should be 
put. at once into a well iced refrigerator, or lacking this, you can impro- 
vise a milk cooler. 

Two cents a day refrigerator. Take an ordinary wooden butter 
tub and place three inches of sawdust in the bottom. Set a stoneware jar 
(or if a tin pail is used instead of the stone jar and two cents worth of 
ice put in each day the milk can be kept perfectly fresh and cool) on 
the sawdust, have the jar or pail smaller than the tub to allow an inch 
and a half of sawdust packed all around the sides. Set the milk bottles 
into the jar and pour in enough cold clean water to nearly cover them. 
Put on the cover and place a clean, snugly fitting, cotton, hay or sawdust- 
stuffed cushion over them. Then put cover of butter tub on. Set in the 
coolest place you have. 

The water in the jar or pail should be changed every twenty-four 
hours. The temperature of the milk should not be more than one degree 
warmer than the water during that time. 

AN ICELESS REFRIGERATOR 
Acute Evaporation Necessary for Good Results. 

Make a screened case three feet and a half high, twelve inches 
wide and fifteen inches long, with two movable shelves, twelve to fifteen 
inches apart, in it. Next place two one-inch wooden strips across the 
top, over the screen, low enough to allow a square pan to fit in. 

Place the twelve-inch pan 
on the top to hold the water and 
the other under the case to hold 
the drip. 

A covering of white Canton 
flannel, with smooth side out, is 
made to fit the case, and two 
double tabs of Canton flannel, six 
inches square, to form wicks, 
are sewed on the top of each side 
and allowed to extend over into 
the water two or three inches. 
Buttons and buttonholes permit 
opening the door without letting 
in warm air. 

When the case is placed in a 
shady place where the air can 

the wicks are kept in the supply 
of water in the upper pan ; it be- 
comes an iceless refrigerator; 
for the water carried down the 
sides of the cloth continually 
evaporates, drawing the heat 

from the inside and thereby low- iceless REFRiaERATOR. by cour- 

ering the temperature to fifty test of womans municipal. 

degrees. league, boston. 




(Continued on Page 31) 



THE MILKY WAY TO ECONOMY 31 

A PLEA FOR CLEAN BOTTLES 

Wash empty bottles. This helps your milkman. 

Never take milk bottles into a sick room. If you have an infectious 
or contagious disease in your home, boil the milk bottles, and do not re- 
turn them without the express sanction of your local health officer or 
attending physician. 

As soon as a milk bottle is empty rinse it in lukewarm water until 
it appears clear, then set it bottom up to drain. Do not use it for any 
other purpose than for milk. There is no objection to the consumer's 
scalding the milk bottle, but this is unnecessary, as the dealer will 
sterilize it when it reaches his plant. He can not, however, do this 
properly if he receives the bottle in a filthy condition. Clean and re- 
turn empty bottles promptly. Remember that they are the property of 
the dealer and represent cash. 

CARE OF MILK IN THE HOME 

Don't Let Milk Spoil. 

Sometimes in very hot weather housekeepers complain that in 
spite of all precautions their milk sours quickly even in the ice box. This 
is often due to the fact that the air in the ice box, although it seems 
cold in contrast with ' the heat outside, is really not cold enough to 
check the milk from souring; if a therinometer placed inside registers 
more than 50 degrees F. the fault is almost surely in the temperature 
of the ice box and not in the milk. 

If the milk producer and the milk dealer have done their duty there 
is daily left at the consumer's door a bottle of clean, cold, unadulterated 
milk. By improper treatment in the home the milk may then become 
unfit for food, especially for babies. This bad treatiment consists (1) in 
placing it in unclean vessels; (2) in exposing it unnecessarily to the air; 
(3) in failing to keep it cool up to the time of using it; and (4) in ex- 
posing it to flies. 

The suggestions given here regarding milk apply also to cream. 

Receiving the Milk. 

Take the milk into the house as soon as possible after delivery, par- 
ticularly in hot weather. Never allow the sun to shine for any length of 
time on the milk. 

Handling and Keeping Milk. 

On receiving the milk put it in the refrigerator at once and allow 
it to remain there when not using it. Except in cold weather milk can 
not be properly kept without ice. Unless the milk bottle is in actual 
contact with the ice it will be colder at the bottom of the refrigerator 
than in the ice compartment, as the cold air settles rapidly. 

Keep milk in the original bottle 'till needed for immediate consump- 
tion ; do not pour it into a bowl or pitcher. Carefully wipe or rinse the 
bottle, especially the mouth, before pouring any milk from it, so that 
dust or dirt which may have gathered thereon or on the cap will not 
get into the milk. Do not pour back into the bottle milk which has been 
exposed to the air by being placed in other vessels. Keep the bottle 
covered with the cap as long as milk is in it and when not actually pour- 
ing from it. If the cap has been punctured, cover the bottle with a 
clean inverted tumbler. 

(Continued on Page 37) 



32 



THE MILKY WAY TO ECONOMY 



Tapioca Pudding. 

One quart skimmed milk, three-quar- 
ters cup tapioca, speck salt, % cup 
sugar. 

Add tapioca, sugar and salt to skim- 
med milk and cook until granules are 
clear and milk is absorbed. If more 
liquid is needed, add by the tablespoon. 
Pour into wet moulds. Chill, unmould 
and serve. Variation, two squares of 
chocolate may be melted and added as 
soon as mixture is hot. 

Cracker Pudding. 

Seven crackers, 1 cup sugar, 1 cup 
raisins, 2 quarts sweet milk, 3 eggs, the 
whites of 2 beaten for the top. 

Pudding Sauce. 

One egg beaten well, % cup milk, 1 
cup sugar, flavor with vanilla. 

Chocolate Pudding. 

One-half cup sugar, 1 cup flour, Vz 
cup sweet milk, V2 teaspoon soda, 1 tea- 
spoon cream tartar, 3 tablespoons 
chocolate, 1 egg. Steam 1 V2 hours. 
Make a plain sauce. 

Orange Pudding. 

One quart milk, yolks 3 eggs, beaten. 
Heat in double boiler, thicken with 
cornstarch. When cool add four 
oranges, sliced. Beat whites of eggs 
with sugar, spread on top of pudding, 
drop a few drops of cold water on. Place 
in oven and let brown. Serv'e cold. 

Thanksgiving Pudding. 

One cup butter, 1 cup molasses, 1 cup 
sour milk, 1 V2 teaspoons soda, 1 tea- 
spoon cinnamon, V2 teaspoon cloves, V2 
teaspoon salt, 1 ^/4 cups chopped raisins, 
% cup currants, 2% cups flour, steam 
4 hours. 

Cottage Pudding. 

One-quarter cup butter, 2-3 cup su- 
gar, 1 egg, 1 cup milk, 2% cups flour, 
4 teaspoons baking powder, V2 tea- 
spoon salt. 

Sift together the flour, baking pow- 
der and salt. Cream the butter, add su- 
gar gradually and well beaten egg. Add 
alternately the milk and the sifted dry 
ingredients. Mix well. Turn into but- 
tered cake pan and bake in a moderate 
oven for thirty-five minutes. 

Cereal Pudding. 

One cup cooked cereal (left over), 2 
cups scalded milk, V2 cup molasses, 1 % 
teaspoons salt, 1 V2 tablespoons butter. 

Pour milk on cereal and mix well. 
Add remaining ingredients, pour into 
greased pudding-dish and bake one 
hour in slow oven. 



Cornstarch Pudding With Fruit. 

One pint of milk, 4 tablespoon corn- 
starch mixed with a little cold water, V2 
cup sugar, 1 well-beaten egg, ^/4 tea- 
spoon salt, 1/2 cup chopped cooked 
peaches, apricots or pears, 1 teaspoon 
vanilla. 

Scald milk; then stir in cornstarch 
mixed with a little cold water, and cook 
five minutes in double boiler. Place up- 
per part of double boiler on fire, let 
cornstarch boil, return boiler to place, 
add sugar, egg and salt beaten together, 
and cook two minutes, stii'ring con- 
tinually. Flavor with vanilla, add fruit, 
and pour into mold. Chill and serve 
with sugar and cream. 

Rice and Raisin Pudding. 

One quart milk (whole or skimmed), 
1-3 cup rice, V2 teaspoon salt, 1-3 cup 
sugar, 1 cup raisins. 

Wash rice, mix ingredients, and pour 
into buttered pudding-dish ; bake three 
hours in very slow oven, stirring three 
times during first hour of baking to pre- 
vent rice from settling. If skim milk 
is used add 1 tablespoon butter. 

Simple Rice Pudding. 

Wash a cup of rice; then boil it on 
the stove in a quart of water for about 
5 to 10 minutes. Take it off the stove 
and do not drain ; then add a quart of 
milk, % cup of sugar, % teaspoon salt 
and a little nutmeg. Put it in the oven 
and bake very slowly for about 1 hour. 
Stir it frequently while it is baking. 

Baked Indian Pudding. 

Scald two cups of milk in a 
double boiler. Stir one cup of cold 
water into four tablespoonfuls of corn- 
meal, then stir this into the hot milk. 
Cook and stir until the mixture thick- 
ens. Add half a cup, each, of sugar 
and molasses (or a full cup of mo- 
lasses), two eggs, beaten light, half a 
teaspoonful of salt, one teaspoonful of 
cinnamon and half a teaspoonful of gin- 
ger and turn into a buttered baking 
dish. Bake half an hour, then pour on 
half a cup of cold milk and let bake, 
without stirring, two hours. Serve with 
cream and sugar. 

Eggless Plum Pudding. 

One cup ^bread crumbs, 2 cups rye 
flour, 4 teaspoons baking powder, V2 
teaspoon salt, 1 teaspoon cloves, 1 tea- 
spoon cinnamon, 1 cup butter, 1 cup 
seeded raisins, 1 chopped apple, 1 cup 
molasses, 1 cup milk. 

Mix the dry ingi-edients thoroughly; 
add the butter and the prepared fruit. 
Mix well and add gradually the molasses 
and milk, stirring continually. Steam 
2V2 hours. Serve with hard sauce. 



(Continued on Page 33i> 



THE MILKY WAY TO ECONOMY 



sa 



CUSTARDS 



Junket. 

Two cupfuls of milk, 'M cupful of su- 
gar, honey or syrup, 1 junket or 2 ren- 
net tablets, Vs teaspoonful of salt, a 
few grains of nutmeg or cinnamon. 

Warm the milk to about the temper- 
ature of the body, crush the tablet, and 
add it with the other ingredients to the 
milk. Pour into several small dishes 
and place in a warm (not hot) place to 
set. Place on ice to chill, before serv- 
ing. 

Soiled Custard. 

Three egg yolks, 2 cupfuls of milk, 
% cupful of sugar, honey or syrup, % 
teaspoonful of salt, flavoring. 

Heat the milk in a double boiler. 
Thoroughly mix the eggs and sugar 
and pour the milk over them. Return 
the mixture to the double boiler and 
heat it until it thickens, stirring con- 
stantly. Cool and flavor. If the cus- 
tard curdles, remove it from the fire 
and beat with a Dover egg beater. 

Tapioca Custard. 

Tapioca custards may be made as fol- 
lows: Add to the list of ingredients 
for boiled custard one-fourth cupful of 
pearl tapioca. Soak the tapioca in wa- 
ter for an hour or two, drain it, and 
cook in the milk until it is transparent. 
Proceed as for boiled custard. 

JBaked Custard. 

In making allow one egg and two 
level teaspoonfuls of sugar and a few 
grains of salt and nutmeg for each cup- 
ful of milk. Beat the eggs slightly and 
add the other ingredients. Bake in 
cups set in a pan of water in a mod- 
erate oven. 

Peach Custard. 

Fill sundae glasses about a quarter 
full of chopped peach and then nearly 
to the top with soft custard. When 
ready to serve cover each portion with 
sweetened whipped cream and invert 
half of a chilled peach in the center. 

l^emon Custard. 

Grate 2 lemons, add V2 pound of su- 
gar and 1/4 pound of butter, beaten to- 
gether to a cream, 1 pint of milk, 2 ta- 
blespoons of flour and 2 eggs beaten 
separately. Add whites last. 

Coffee Custard. 

Put V2 cup of ground coffee in a 
small muslin bag and place it in a dou- 
ble boiler containing 4 cups of cold 



milk; let stand half an hour, then heat 
to the boiling point and cook five min- 
utes. Remove the bag and pour the 
hot milk over 2 beaten eggs and 4 heap- 
ing tablespoons of sugar. Pour into 
small custard cups and set in a pan of 
hot water in the oven and bake until 
firm. Serve cold. 

Chocolate Custard. 

One quart of milk, 3 eggs, 8 table- 
spoons grated chocolate, 2 tablespoons 
cornstarch, pinch of salt, teaspoon va- 
nilla, put milk to heat in double boil- 
er, using a little to mix cornstarch; 
beat eggs, add sugar and beat well to- 
gether, add dissolved cornstarch, then 
the melted chocolate and beat again; 
put into hot milk and stir all together. 
Cook until thick and smooth, take ffom 
the stove and let cool a little, then add 
salt and vanilla. Serve cold. 

Buttermilk Custard. 

One pint buttermilk, one cup sugar, 
two tablespoons flour, one-half cup but- 
ter, three eggs, grated rind of a lem- 
on. Cream butter and flour together. 
Add sugar, beaten egg yolks, the stiffly 
beaten egg whites and lemon last. Bake 
until firm. 

Irish Moss Blanc Mange. 

One quart of milk scalded with a 
scant handful of Irish moss, well rinsed. 
Cook in double boiler about 20 minutes. 
Take off, add salt and vanilla to taste. 
Strain and mold. Melt chocolate if 
wanted for chocolate blanc mange. Eat 
with sugar and cream. 

Canton Cream. 

Make a custard of 1 cup milk, yolks 
2 eggs, % cup sugar and few grains 
salt. Soak % box gelatine in H cup 
cold water and add to hot custard. 
Strain, chill in pan of ice water and add 

1 tablespoon wine, V2 tablespoon bran- 
dy, 2 tablespoons ginger syrup and 14 
cup Canton ginger cut in pieces. When 
it begins to thicken, fold in whip from 

2 % cups cream. 

Chocolate Blanc Mange. 

One qt. of milk, 2 sq. chocolates, 3 
tablespoons cornstarch, 4 teaspoons su- 
gar, 1/4 teaspoon salt. Heat milk. Melt 
chocolate and cook it for 3 minutes 
with 1/2 cup of water. Blend last three 
ingredients with 1-3 cup of milk, and 
add to chocolate. Pour hot milk into 
above mixture and stir constantly to 
avoid lumps. 



(Continued on Page 34) 



34 



THE MILKY WAY TO ECONOMY 



Snow Eggs. 

Whip the whites of four eggs to a 
stiff froth. Have ready a pint of boil- 
ing milk and into this drop the egg whip 
in spoonfuls. Keep over the range un- 
til the egg whip poaches, but do not 
let it brown. Slip these snow balls into 
a shallow dish and make a custard from 
the hot milk and the four yolks, with 
sugar to taste. Just before sending to 
the table, as a hot pudding pour the 
custard around the snow balls and 
sprinkle the whole with chopped dry 
maccaroon- 

Molded Custard. 

Soften one-fourth a package of gela- 
tine in one-fourth a cup of cold milk. 
Make a soft custard with three egg- 
yolks, one-third a cup of sugar and half 
a teaspoonful of salt. Add the softened 
gelatine, stir until dissolved, and let 
cool; add half a teaspoonful of vanilla 
extract and strain into a mold. When 
unmolded, pour over half a cup of fruit 
jelly half dissolved in one-fourth a cup 
of boiling water. Or, sei've with half- 
beaten cream. 



Vanilla Bavarian Cream. 

Soften one-third a package of gela- 
tine in one-third a cup of cold milk. 
Make a soft custard of one cup of milk,, 
three egg-yolks and two-thirds a cup of 
sugar; add the softened gelatine and 
stir over ice-water until beginning to 
thicken, then fold in one cup and a 
half of cream beaten light and one tea- 
spoonful of vanilla. This may be made 
without eggs. Simply dissolve the gel- 
atine and sugar in the hot milk and 
finish as usual. 

Buttermilk Charlotte. 

One pint buttermilk, V2 cup sugar, 1 
tablespoon gelatin, % cup fruit (apple- 
sauce is best but berries are a good 
substitute), 1 egg white. 

Soak the gelatin in three tablespoons 
of water and melt over hot water. Add 
sugar and melted gelatin to buttermilk 
and allow to stand until it begins to 
thicken. Beat the egg white and fold 
in white and fruit. This is molded and 
served cold with whipped cream or fruit 
juice and garnished with cut fruit. 



PANCAKES AND DOUGHNUTS 



Raised Doughnuts. 

One egg, 1 pint of milk, scalded, V2 
cup butter, 1 cup sugar, 1 yeast cake, 
dissolved in Vz cup water. Mix stiff 
and set to rise over night. 

Molasses Doughnuts. 

Two eggs, V2 cup sugar, V2 cup mo- 
lasses, 1 cup sour milk, 1 tablespoon 
sour cream, 1 teaspoon soda, a little 
salt, cinnamon, and ginger. 

DouShnuts. 

Beat well together two eggs and two 
cups granulated sugar. Add one pint 
milk and one quart flour in which are 
mixed and sifted three teaspoons bak- 
ing powder, one teaspoon salt and one 
grated nutmeg. Beat well, then add 
more flour to make a soft dough. Roll 
out half inch thick, cut in rings. 

Doughnuts with One Egg. 

One egg, 1 cup milk (scant), 1 ta- 
blespoon sugar, V2 teaspoon soda, 1 
teaspoon cream tartar, salt, flour to 
make rather stiff, fry in deep fat. 

Corn Meal Flap Jacks. 

Two-thirds cup cornmeal, 1-3 cup 
rye flour, V4, teaspoon salt, % teaspoon 
soda, 1 egg. 1 V2 cups sour milk, V2 
tablespoon butter. 

Mix and sift dry ingredients. Add 
the beaten egg and milk to the mixture. 
Mix thoroughly. Add melted butter 



and beat well. Drop from a spoon ori 
to a hot greased griddle. When brown, 
serve. 

Cereal Pancakes. 

One cup sweet milk, 1 cup flour, 2 
teaspoons baking powder, 1 cup cooked 
cereal, 1 egg, 1 teaspoon salt. 

Beat the. egg and cooked cereal to- 
gether until light and smooth and stir 
in the milk. Sift the flour and salt 
together and add to the cereal mixture. 
When ready to bake the cakes, stir in 
the baking powder and beat the batter 
vigorously. Cook on hot pan. 

Sour Milk Pancakes. 

One cup thick sour milk, V2 cup 
cooked cereal, 1 egg, % cup flour, 1 
teaspoon soda, Vs teaspoon salt. 

Beat sour milk, cereal and egg well 
together. Sift flour and salt and add 
them. When ready to bake the cakes, 
add the soda and beat the batter vig- 
orously. If too thin, add a little more 
flour; if too thick, add more sour milk. 

Pancakes. 

Two cups sweet milk, 3 cups crumbs 
(level), 14 teaspoonful salt, 1 table- 
spoonful sugar, 1 egg. 

Sufficient sweet milk to wet the 
crumbs, then add the other ingredients 
and whip with egg-beater. Add 2 tea- 
spoonfuls baking powder, and bake on 
hot griddle. The quality of bread 
crumbs varies so much that more or less 
liquid than given may be necessary. 



(Continued on Page 35) 



THE MILKY WAY TO ECONOMY 



35^ 



Mix whey and sugar and boil the mix- 
ture till it is of the consistency of 
strained honey. This syrup will keep 
indefinitely if properly bottled and is 

DIRECTIONS FOR WHIPPING CREAM 



delicious for spreading on waffles or' 
pan cakes. Used a little thinner it 
makes an excellent pudding sauce. Since- 
it requires no thickening, it is the eas- 
iest possible sauce to make. 



Difficulties experienced by house- 
keepers in the whipping of cream may 
make of interest the following direc- 
tions: 

1. Light, medium or heavy cream 
may be used but medium cream is of 
the most favorable richness. 

2. At the time of whipping, cream 
should be at a temperature as low as 
forty degrees.* This probably can be 
secured only by placing for a time the 
bowl of cream in a pan of cracked ice 
and water. 



3. Whip cream in a cool room. 

4. Whipping is favored by adding; 
one teaspoonful of sugar (powdered! 
preferred) to two teacupfuls of cream. 

5. Cream should whip under above 
conditions in about a minute. 

6. Whipped cream will^ not remain, 
sweet as long as unwhipped cream. 



*The low temperature of cream is the- 
most important factor to accomplish 
successful whipping. 



MILK AND CEREAL DISHES 



Milk Toast. 

The following is a good method for 
making milk toast. Put on the table 
hot crisp toast or twice-baked bread and 
a pitcher of hot milk, slightly salted. 
One-fourth teaspoonful of salt to a cup- 
ful of milk is sufficient. Pour the milk 
over the toast as needed, using hot 
bowls or deep saucers for serving. This 
is the easiest way of serving milk toast, 
and, if care is taken to have all the 
dishes hot and to salt the milk, it is 
usually acceptable. A supply of twice- 
baked bread can be kept on hand and 
heated as needed to crisp it. 

Another way to make milk toast is 
to thicken milk and pour it over toast. 
For one cup of milk allow 1 V2 level 
teaspoons of flour and V4, teaspoon of 
salt. Make a smooth paste out of the 
flour, salt, and a little of the milk. Heat 
the rest of the milk; add the flour and 
milk mixture and boil for about five 
minutes, stirring constantly, or cook 20 
minutes in a double boiler, stirring con- 
stantly at first and frequently later on. 
If skim milk is used, a level teaspoon- 
ful of butter should be added after the 
gravy is prepared. 

An easier and quicker method of 
making the sauce or "milk gravy" is to 
cook the flour thoroughly in a table- 
spoonful of butter before adding the 
milk. This, however, is not thought to 
be so wholesome as the kind of gravy 
in which the flour is cooked in* the milk. 

Milk gravy may be combined with 
dried beef or salt codfish which has been 
cut into small pieces and soaked in 
warm water, or with small pieces of 
tender meat, chicken, fish or vegetables. 
Such gravy may be served with toast, 
with baked or boiled potatoes, or with 
boiled rice or other cereals. 



Indian Meal Gruel. 

Scald one quart of milk, then mix 4 
tablespoons of Indian meal, 1 egg, 4 
tablespoons of sugar and a little salt in. 
a little cold milk and pour into the hot 
milk. This is much better than gruel. 

Bruiss. 

Soak brown bread crusts over night 
in good, fresh, sweet milk. In the 
morning boil slowly in more sweet milk,, 
and just before taking up to serve while- 
hot add a little butter. 

Milk taken with breakfast cereals or 
used as a beverage is an important 
source of nitrogenous material, a glass 
supplying as much as 2 ounces of lean 
meat or one egg. Cooking cereals with 
milk instead of water is a convenient 
way of adding nitrogenous material to, 
the meal. 
Fried Bread. 

To an egg, well beaten, add one cup 
of whole milk thoroughly. Soak pieces 
of stale bread in this, fry whole in but- 
ter. 

Stale bread in a mixture of eggs and 
milk and fried as "French Toast" for 
breakfast, softened with milk, seasoned 
with sugar and cinnamon and served 
with a pudding sauce, is a satisfactory- 
dessert. 
Bread Cereal. 

Dry bread in the oven until crisp and. 
brown. Roll on board, or put through: 
meat grinder, having crumbs coarse. 
Serve warm as a breakfast food with 
milk or cream. 

Gruels (barley flour, rice flour, fa- 
rina, oatmeal or cracker meal) : 1 ta- 
blespoon of the flour or meal (2 table- 
spoons of the cracker meal), 1^4 tea- 
spoon salt, V2 cup each of boiling water 
and milk. Boil and strain. 



(Continued on Page 36) 



36 



THE MILKY WAY TO ECONOMY 



Rice Water. 

One-half tablespoon rice, 2 cups milk, 
salt. Put the rice on in cold milk, boil 
30 minutes, and strain. 

There is a class of extremely valua- 
ble dishes which are sometimes called 
■"cereal milk puddings," usually made 
by cooking equal volumes of a cereal 
(usually rice) and sugar in 12 times 
the volume of milk — for example, one- 
fourth cupful of rice, one-fourth cupful 
of sugar, and 3 cupfuls of milk. When 
a fire is kept constantly and the cost 
of fuel need not be considered, such a 
dish may be made with skim milk, and 



very much more than 3 cupfuls of the 
milk used. As the water evaporates, 
the dish becomes richer and richer in 
pi'otein. 

Oatmeal may be substituted for rice 
in the above-described pudding and 
adds somewhat to the priftein value, 
though the quantity of cereal used is 
so small that this is not important. 

Thin cereal-milk puddings, made by 
slowly cooking down until thick 10 or 
12 parts of skim milk and 1 of rice, 
oatmeal or similar cereal, may be used 
in place of cream with stewed fresh 
fi'uits or cooked dried fruits or baked 
apples. 



EGGS 



Scrambled ESgs using up yolks of eggs 

Three yolks, dash cayenne, dried 
bread or toast, 1 large tablespoon ba- 
con (cut in bits), I/2 cup milk, V2 ta- 
blespoon butter. 

Prepare crisp dry toast, or use oven- 
dried slices of old bread. Beat eggs 
slightly, add milk and bacon. Melt but- 
ter in hot omelet pan ; add the egg mix- 
ture, and cook lightly, holding pan up 
from intense heat. Have hot milk 
ready in saucepan, dip slices of bread 
or toast quickly in it, put on hot plat- 
ter, and pour scrambled eggs over all. 

Egg Croquettes. 

Put five hard-boiled eggs through a 
"vegetable press, or chopper. Put one 
tablespoon of butter and two of flour 
into a saucepan, add a half pint of 
milk, stir until boiling, add a half cup 
•of stale, unbrowned bread crumbs, a 
teaspoon of salt, a tablespoon of chop- 
ped parsley, a dash of pepper and a 
half teaspoon of onion juice; add the 
eggs, mix and turn out to cool. When 
cold form into cutlets, dip in egg and 
then in bread crumbs and fry in smok- 
ing hot deep fat. Serve with plain cream 
sauce. 



Floating Island using up whites of eggs 

Beat up whites of eggs until stiff; 
gradually beat in a very little pow- 
dered sugar and drop large spoonfuls 
in hot milk in frying pan. Dip milk 
over egg, that it may cook slightly. 
Take up in a skimmer and drain. Serve 
on soft custard with a bit of jelly on 
top of each spoonful. 

Scrambled Eggs. 

Slightly beat the number of eggs re- 
quired, add one tablespoonful of milk 
for each egg. Season with salt and 
pepper. Pour into omelet pan and as 
egg hardens stir. Serve on a hot plat- 
ter, garnish with crisp bacon and 
sprigs of parsley. 
Eggs a la Goldenrod. 

One tablespoon butter, 1 tablespoon 
flour, V2 teaspoon salt, V2 saltspoon 
pepper, 1 cup milk, 3 hard-boiled eggs, 
3 slices toast, parsley. Put butter in 
chafing dish. When bubbling add 
flour, salt, pepper and gradually the 
milk. Add the whites of the eggs, 
chopped fine. When hot, pour over 
the toast. Rub the yolks thi-ough a 
s.trainer over all and garnish with 
parsley. 



FROZEN DESSERTS 



Cheap and Easy to Make Your Own Ice 
Cream. 

A frozen dessert is easier to make 
than a cooked one, ice is not more cost- 
ly than coal and there is no waste to a 
frozen cream. 

Ice cream is fast getting out of the 
refreshment class and becoming a sta- 
ple food. 

Ice cream can be made at home for 
less than half the cost of the commer- 
cial article, and freezers are to be had 
in many sizes and at many prices — 
reasons enough, it would seem, for an 
immediate adventure in making frozen 
'dessei'ts. 



From 10 to 15 minutes is usually re- 
quired for freezing, and the process is 
certainly more comfortable than bak- 
ing a pie. One part of salt and three 
parts of ice usually produce good re- 
sults. Turn the freezer slowly at first, 
and more rapidly near the finish. After 
draining off the brine, cover the can 
with unsalted ice, and wrap with news- 
paper and blankets. 

Ice cream should ripen several hours 
before serving. 

Banana Ice Cream. 

Pare and mash six ripe bananas. Mix 
one quart of milk with one-half pound 
of sugar and stir until dissolved. Beat 



(Continued on Page 38) 



THE MILKY WAY TO ECONOMY 37 

NEEDFUL CO-OPERATION OF PRODUCERS AND CONSUMERS. 

Milk dealers and consumers rarely get close together. Too often 
the consumer bears a feeling of resentment against the milkman. His 
ill-will is not manifested toward the man who delivers the bottles of 
milk each morning, but rather at the milk company, the impersonal 
organization which he feels is asking an exorbitant price for milk in 
■order that it may make unwarranted profits. 

As a matter of fact, the milkman, whether he be the farmer who 
peddles his own milk from house to house, or the great business or- 
ganization in the large city which gathers milk from 10,000 farms, 
hauls it to a central depot where it is clarified and bottled in order 
that it may be delivered to the consumer in as pure and wholesome a 
condition as is possible, is doing a great sei^ice. No greater is rendered 
by any food producer or distributer. 

The consumer has every reason to applaud the energetic and con- 
scientious work of the milk company which supplies him and his babies 
with wholesome milk. 

There is another good reason why the milkman and the consumer 
should know each other better. Much milk is spoiled in the home by 
careless handling. The milkman is often unjustly blamed for selling 
sour milk when the fault is really that of the consumer. Whenever the 
milkman can get an opportunity to talk to his customers on the better 
care of milk he is doing himself a service, but the service he is doing 
the consumer is far greater. 

A WORD ABOUT BUTTER 

Butter is the choicest fruit of the dairy. To consider it a luxury, 
is a grave error. Although many people have had it impressed upon 
them that fats are necessary to human sustenance and physical well- 
being, few realize that butter-fat, which constitutes about .83 per cent, 
of good butter, supplies certain elements absolutely necessary to good 
health, growth and the functions of reproduction, and that there is no 
known substitute for butter-fat. Imitations of butter are not true sub- 
stitutes for butter. Scientific experiments have shown this conclusively. 
No vegetable oils derived from seeds or nuts, nor even animal fats other 
than the fat of milk, have been found to supply the "vitamins" needed 
to maintain health and vitality. This being the case, no one should be 
induced to believe that butter substitutes are as good as butter, no mat- 
ter how palatable they may be, or that their use is true economy, es- 
pecially as regards the young. Butter from milk is easily and thorough- 
ly digested. As a source of energy, a pound of butter-fat equals 214 
lbs. of protein and carbohydrates. Real butter at 60 cents or more per 
pound is cheaper than an imitation at 25 cents. 

The family that uses butter substitutes needs more milk or cream. 

Butter is made from cream. Cream is obtained from whole milk 
through process of separation. The most valuable constituent of milk, 
cream and butter is milk fat, which forms 82 to 85% of commercial 
butter. 

In butter substitutes the basic sources of fat are tallow, lard and 
cottonseed oil. Each of these fats has a value and a use of its own. 
Comparisons with butter on the basis of calory units alone, or even in 

(Continued on Page 40) 



38 



THE MILKY WAY TO ECONOMY 



in the banana pulp, add the juice of 
half a lemon, and freeze. 



Ph 



ilia I< 



Beat 4 eggs thoroughly and mix with 
one quart of milk, 4 heaping table- 
spoonfuls of sugar and one-half tea- 
spoonful salt; cook in a double boiler 
until the mixture thickens, then freeze. 
An excellent cream to serve with a fruit 
or chocolate sauce. 

Peach Bavarian Cream. 

Two tablespoons gelatin, 1 cup whey 
2-3 cup honey or maple syrup, 1 cup 
peaches cut in small pieces, 1 tablespoon 
lemon juice, 1 cup sour cream, 
whipped. 

Soak the gelatin in the whey, and 
dissolve it by setting the dish in a pan 
of boiling water. Add the sweetening, 
the fruit, and the lemon juice. Chill 
the mixture and when it begins to 
thicken, fold in the whipped cream, and 
turn it into a mold. Serve it with a 
soft custard. 

Milk Sherbet. 

Four cups milk, 2 lemons, 2 cups corn 
syrup and 1 cup grated pineapple. 

Mix the lemon juice and syrup to- 
gether. Add the milk slowly and 
freeze. The milk may curdle when 
lemon is added but will be beaten 
smooth during freezing. 

Frozen Chocolate Junket. 

One quart milk, ^A cup sugar, 1 tea- 
spoon vanilla, 2 squares chocolate, 1 
junket tablet. 

Melt chocolate in top of double boil- 
er, add milk slowly. Dissolve tablet 
in 1 tablespoon of cold water and stir 
carefully into milk. Add sugar and 
flavoring. Let stand in a warm place 
until set and then freeze in any of the 
commercial ice cream freezers. 

Grape Juice Milk Sherbet. 

One nint home made grape juice, 1 
pint milk. 

Freeze same as the chocolate 
junket. 

Caramel Almond Ice Cream. 

Stir three-fourths a cup of sugar 
over a quick fire to caramel; add a cup 
of blanched almonds and let cook until 
the almonds are of an amber shade; add 
half a cup of boiling water, cover and 
let simmer to a thick syrup. Sc^ld one 
quart of milk in a double boiler; sift 
together half a cup of sugar, three tea- 
spoonfuls of cornstarch and half a tea- 
spoonful of salt; add to the hot milk, 
stirring constantly; cover and let cook 
twenty minutes. Add the caramel and 



nuts and two cups of cream. Freeze 
when cold. Without almonds this is 
good ice cream. 

Simple Ice Cream. 

In the way they are used, ice ci'eant 
and frozen custard may be grouped with 
the puddings. Plain ice cream made 
out of thin cream, sweetened and 
flavored, or out of cream and custard 
mixed, may be given to children occa- 
sionally. 

A good ice cream may be made as 
follows: Allow one-fourth cupful of 
sugar to each cupful of thin creami 
(half milk and half cream) ; flavor and 
freeze. 

A frozen custard, commonly called 
by housekeepers "ice cream" or 
"French ice cream," which contains 
eggs as well as milk and cream, may be 
made as follows: For each half cupful 
of milk allow one-fourth cupful of su- 
gar, one or two egg yolks or one whole 
egg, and a half cupful of cream. Make 
a custard out of all the ingredients but 
the cream. Flavor it, add the cream, 
and freeze. 

Banana Whip. 

Peel 6 ripe bananas and rub through 
a sieve, stir into them V2 cup powdei^ed 
sugar, and V2 cup strained orange 
juice. Dissolve V2 teaspoon powdered 
gelatine in V2 cup boiling water and 
strain into banana mixture. When it 
begins to stiffen add 2 cups of whipped 
cream and turn into a wet mold, lay 
over the mold 2 thicknesses of waxed 
paper before putting on cover. Bury 
in mixture of cracked ice and salt. 

Chocolate Ice Cream. 

One and one-half cups milk 5 table- 
spoons sugar, 2^/2 tablespoons flour, V2 
teaspoon salt, V2 teaspoon vanilla, V2 
square chocolate, V2 cup thin cream. 

Mix sugar, salt and flour, and slow- 
ly add V2 cup cold milk, stirring con- 
stantly so that there are no lumps. Add 
remainder of milk, scalded, and cook 
this mixture over hot water for about 
fifteen minutes, until it thickens. Melt 
chocolate over hot water and add to 
thickened milk. Cool. Add vanilla and 
thin cream. 

A quarter of a teaspoonful of cinna- 
mon, added to each gallon of chocolate 
ice cream, gives it a richness, without 
a suggestion of cinnamon taste. 

Peach Melba. 

Peach Melba is a name given to va- 
rious dishes made up of cooked peaches 
vanilla ice cream or sweetened whipped 
cream, sponge cake and a raspberry 
sauce. One of the best is given below. 

Set a thin round of sponge cake on a 



(Continued on Page 39) 



THE MILKY WAY TO ECONOMY 



39 



small plate; above this set half. a choice 
preserved peach with some of the sy- 
rup; cover the whole with vanilla ice 
cream and over the whole pour two or 
more tablespoonfuls of thick raspberry 
sauce. The sauce is made by reducing 
raspberry pulp and juice by cooking and 
then adding sugar to sweeten. Do not 
cook long after adding the sugar; let 
chill before using. 

JVlaple Mousse. 

One pint maple syrup, heat in double 
boiler, when quite hot add 4 eggs, well- 
beaten, and stir until quite thick, then 
take from the fire and cool, add 1 pint 
of heavy cream, whipped. Place in the 
ice cream can with beaters removed, 
pack around with the usual mixture of 
ice and salt. Cover with a heavy cloth 
or sack. Let stand 3 or 4 hours. 

.Raspberry Mousse. - -^ 

Half pint cream, whipped very stiff, 
to this add V2 cup raspberry juice, % 
cup sugar and juice of 1 lemon. Pack 
in ice and salt and let stand 4 or 5 
Ihours. Strawberry or pineapple juice 
-can be used in this recipe. 

"'Three Ice" With Cream. 

Three lemons (juice), 3. oranges 
(juice), 3 bananas, 3 cupfuls sugar, 3 
-cupfuls milk, V2 pint cream. 

Put all together except cream in a 
large bowl and let stand one hour. Then 
. strain through colander, mashing the 
bananas through with a potato masher. 
Pour into a freezer, add cream and 
freeze. These amounts will serve about 
ten persons. 

Banana Sour Ice Cream. 

One and one-fourth cupfuls sour 
•cream, 1 cupful sugar, juice of 2 lem- 
.ons, 3 bananas. 

Thoroughly dissolve the sugar in the 



lemon juice. Then mix with the cream 
and stir in the bananas, well mashed. 
Freeze. 

Tutti-frutti Ice Cream. 

Make this cooked custard, which is 
the basis of any plain cream. Two cups 
of milk, yolks of three eggs, one-half 
cup of sugar, or more if needed, one 
teaspoon of salt, flavoring. Mix the 
sugar and eggs and pour the milk on 
them when it is scalding hot. Add salt 
and seasoning and cook in a double 
boiler stirring often until the mixture 
coats the spoon. Freeze this until like 
mush, now open the freezer and add a 
cup and a half of the mixed fruit you 
like best. Citron, raisins, drained 
canned cherries and apricots make a 
fine combination, Finish freezing and 
pack down in ice for two hours beford" 
using. If you wish to use only two 
eggs for a quart of cream beat the 
yolks and the whites separately and add 
a tablespoon of cornstarch to the mix- 
ture and beat the stiff whites of the 
eggs in just as the custard goes into 
the freezer. 

Sundae. 

A sundae is any frozen dish served 
with a syrup or sauce. If you like 
chocolate syrup make it as the soda 
dispensers do and it will be smooth and 
sweet. This is the recipe used by a 
famous "mixer." Chocolate syrup: 
Measure eight tablespoons of " best 
cocoa or powdered chocolate essence 
into a bowl and add boiling water to 
cover. Work this to a smooth paste 
and add one pint of water. Boil this 
four minutes, add eight tablespoons of 
sugar and boil five minutes longer. 
Flavor with ten drops of vanilla. This 
will keep fresh a long time in an un- 
corked bottle in a refrigerator. 



HOME-MADE COTTAGE CHEESE 

(The Women's Municipal League of Boston) 



'^kim -Milk Cheese. 

One quart skim milk, 2 junket tab- 
lets, 1-3 teaspoon salt, 1 tablespoon top 

-inilk. 

Heat milk in double boiler until luke- 

■ warm. Allow it to remain at that tem- 
perature for .15 minutes. Add junket 
tablets which have been crushed and 

• dissolved in one-quarter cup cold water, 

. stirring while adding. Allow to remain 
until the milk curdles. Strain through 
cotton cloth, squeezing gently. Mash 
the curd with a fork, season with salt, 
moisten with milk, shape and chill. 

Sour Milk Cheese. 

.One quart thick sour milk, 1 quart 



hot water, 1-3 teaspoon salt, 1 table- 
•spoon top milk. 

Put milk in large bowl. Add hot wa- 
ter and let stand five minutes. Strain 
through cheese cloth, squeezing gently. 
Mash the curd with a fork, season with 
salt, moisten with milk, shape, chill and 
serve. 

Buttermilk Cheese. 

One quart buttermilk, 1-3 teaspoon 
salt, 1 tablespoon top milk. 

Heat buttermilk gradually to about 
70 degrees C. Allow it to cool. Strain 
through cheesecloth, squeezing gently. 
Mash the curd with a fork, season, 
moisten, shape and chill. 



(Continued on Page 41) 



40 



THE MILKY WAY TO ECONOMY 



connection With theoretical dig-estibiHty, does not suffice- palatabihtv 

't't as Lood'" ^ "f ' ^" i' considered. No ' sSbstitu e S 

just as good. One would not use these fats and oils in makino- ice 
cream, nor would one use either animal or vegetable f ats f^^ f ee^din- 
young children, or even very young animals if best results are desh^d 
Tf/fn'^'J ^^P!^^^^^^ ^"^ observation prove the superiority of m'lk fai 
as a food whether consumed by adults or children. Dr. McCollum whHe 
l^M;^^'"^'!'"'^^ of Wisconsin, did much in furnishing scientific proof 
along these lines Lard and tallow are well adapted for purposes of 
shortening and frying, and cottonseed oil for use in salads etc b^t 
when these facts are processed, thus adding materially to the r"cost 
and then combined and sold in the place of butter, they serve neither 
the purposes of real economy nor of best nutrition. 

A given sum expended for good butter will prove more satisfactorv 
than If spent for a larger quantity of imitation butter. s^^^stactoiy 

Economize by avoiding waste in the use of butter rather than bv 
substituting an inferior article. ^ °^ 

"The real nutritive value of a food depends not simply on the pro- 
portion of nutriments which it contains, but also on the amount of those 
nutrients which can be made available to the body by digestion for 
building material and for fuel."— Atwater. aigestion tor 

Give Your Children Milk. 

.f J^M^'-'^-u 1 1""^ ^^^^ ^\f^ ''^'^^' '^ possible, a pint without fail. Plenty 
S;X fiT h^^P57\^" your children, big and little, the chance for 
health they ought to have. Buy more milk and less meat and your 
family will be better fed. ^ y^^i 

Milk Helps Your Children to Grow. 

Besides well-known food substances it has something special which 
they must have to grow. Your children can get a little of this from 
other foods, but not enough. Give your boys and girls milk for their 
chance to grow. 

Milk Helps Your Children to Keep Well. 

Look at children who do not get milk, but get tea and coffee in- 
stead. Arent most of them pale .and sickly? There are always very 
many sick children in cities and in countries where milk is scarce When 
milk prices go up and mothers begin to economize on milk imore children 
become sick. Do not let your children run this risk. Give them fresh, 
clean milk and help thdm to grow up strong and well and win in their 
fight against disease. Save on other things if you must, but not on 
milk, your child's best food. 

Milk gives your children fuel to burn in their bodies. They need 
the fuel to keep them warm and to help them run and play and work 
much as an automobile needs gasoline or a steam engine needs coal' 
They are so active that they need more fuel for their size than grown 
people do. The fat and the milk sugar and the protein in the milk all 
burn up as fuel. 

Milk is much cheaper fuel than meat. A quart gives the same 
amount of fuel as a whole pound of lean meat or as eight eggs. 

(Continued on Page 43) 



THE MILKY WAY TO ECONOMY 



41 



COTTAGE CHEESE (An inexpensive Meat Substitute) 



Cottage cheese is one of the import- 
ant meat substitutes, says specialists of 
the United States Department of Agri- 
culture. It contains a larger percentage 
of protein (the chief material for body 
building) than most meats and fur- 
nishes this material at a lower cost. In 
every pound of cottage cheese there is 
about one-fifth of a pound of pi-otein, 
nearly all of which is digestible. Meats, 
on the other hand, usually contain less 
protein and besides have a certain 
waste, such as bone and other inedible 
material. A pound of cottage cheese 
daily would supply all the protein re- 
quired by the ordinary adult engaged in 
a sedentary occupation. 

The following shows that cottage 
cheese is much cheaper than most meats 
in furnishing protein for the diet. 

For supplying protein, one pound of 
cottage cheese equals: 1.27 pounds sir- 
loin steak, 1.09 pounds round steak, 
1.37 pounds chuck rib beef, 1.52 
pounds fowl, 1.46 pounds fresh ham,. 
1.44 pounds smoked ham, 1.58 pounds 
loin pork chop, 1.31 pounds hind leg 
of lamb, 1.37 pounds breast of veal. 

In addition to protein, energy for 
performing body work must be furnish- 
ed by food. As a source of energy also, 
cottage cheese is cheaper than most 
meats. The following shows the com- 
parison when energy is considered. 

On the basis of energy supplied, one 
pound of cottage cheese equals: 8 1-3 
ounces sirloin steak, 11% ounces round 
steak, 11% ounces chuck rib beef, 
10% ounces fowl, 5% ounces fresh 
ham, 5 ounces smoked ham, 6 ounces 
loin pork chop, 7 1-3 ounces hind leg 
of lamb, 12% ounces breast of veal. 

Creamy Eggs With Cottage Cheese. 

One cup milk, 1 tablespoon flour, 2 
eggs, 1 cup cottage cheese, % teaspoon 
soda, 1 tablespoon butter, % teaspoon 
pepper, % teaspoon salt, paprika, pars- 
ley or pimentos. 

Make a thick sauce with the milk, 
flour, butter, and seasonings. Cook 5 
minutes and pour gradually on the 
cheese, which has been neutralized with 
the soda dissolved in a little of the milk. 
When the cheese and sauce are well 
blended, return them to the top of the 
double boiler and reheat over hot wa- 
ter. Beat the eggs slightly, pour them 
into the warm sauce, anH mix well. As 
the mixture sets in a soft custard on 
the bottom and sides of the boiler, 
scrape it up carefully, forming large 
soft curds. The mixture is cooked when 
it is of a creamy consistency through- 
out. 



Cooked Salad Dressing With Cottage 
Cheese. 

One-fourth tablespoon mustard, li 
tablespoon salt, 2 tablespoons flour, 1 
tablespoon sugar, % cup sweet milk, % 
teaspoon cayenne pepper, 4 tablespoons 
cottage cheese, % teaspoon soda, 2 
eggs, 2 tablespoons butter, % cup 
vinegar. 

Rub together the dry ingredients and 
add egg yolks slightly beaten. Add 
melted butter, cold milk and hot vine- 
gar, in the order named, stirring until 
perfectly smooth. Cook the mixture in 
a double boiler until thickened. To the 
stiffly beaten whites of eggs add 4 ta- 
blespoons of cottage cheese which has 
first been neutralized with the soda, 
and fold this mixture into the cooked 
dressing. Set the pan into a bowl of 
cold water and beat well until cool and 
smooth. 

Cottage Cheese Balls. 

One-half cup thick white sauce, made 
from V2 cup milk, 2 tablespoons flour, 
1 tablespoon butter, salt and pepper, 2 
cups cottage cheese, 2 cups mashed po- 
tatoes, 1 egg beaten, bread crumbs. 

Method : Make white sauce. Gradual- 
ly beat cottage cheese into it. Add 
mashed potatoes, season, make into 
soft balls, roll in bread crumbs, then 
in beaten egg, then in bread crumbs 
again. Fry in kettle of deep fat until 
a golden brown. These cheese balls are 
delicious served with tomato sauce. 

Baked Bread and Cheese. 

Four medium slices of bread, or 2 
cups cold cooked rice (dry), 1 egg, 1 
egg yolk or an egg white, 2 cups milk, 
% teaspoon salt, cayenne pepper, but- 
ter, 1 cup cottage cheese, % teaspoon 
soda, V2 teaspoon onion juice, parsley 
and pimento, or piccalilli or chili 
sauce; nuts if desired. 

Butter the bread and cut the slices 
in squares or diamonds. Place a layer, 
buttered side down, on the bottom of a 
large shallow buttered baking dish. 
Dissolve the soda in a little of the milk, 
and with it mix the cheese to a soft 
cream. Add parsley and pimento or 
sauce if desired. Spread a thick layer 
of the cheese lightly over the bread 
and cover with the rest af the bread, 
buttered side up. Beat the eggs well, 
mix them with the milk and seasonings, 
and pour them over the bread. Bake 
in a slow oven till a knife- thrust into 
the custard comes out clean. If the 
milk is warmed and added gradually 
to the beaten egg, and the baking dish 
IS set in a pan of hot water the custard 
will not curdle. 



(Continued on Page 42) 



'^^ 



Cottage Cheese Pie. 

One cup cottage cheese, V2 cup ma- 
ple syrup, 1-3 cup honey, 2-3 cup milk, 
yolk of 2 eggs, beaten, 2 tablespoons 
-melted butter, salt, V2 teaspoon 
vanilla. 

Mix the ingredients in the order giv- 
^n. Bake the pie in one crust made of 
potato or rice. Cool it slightly, cover it 
with mermgue, and brown it in a slow 
oven. 

Cottage Cheese Salad. 

Mix thoroughly 1 pound of cheese, 
1 V2 tablespoonfuls of cream, table- 
spoonful of chopped parsley, and salt 
to taste. First, fill a rectangular tin 
mold with cold water to chill and wet 
the surface; line the bottom with 
waxed paper; then pack in three layers 
(putting two or three parallel strips of 
pimento between layers. Cover with 
waxed paper and set in a cool place un- 
til ready to serve ; then run a knife 
around the sides and invert the mold. 
Cut in slices and serve on lettuce leaves 
with French dressing and wafers. 
Minced olives may be used instead of 
the parsley, and chopped nuts also may 
be added. 

Salad Combinations. 

Two cups cottage cheese, 1 cup 
pickled beets, cut up, mix and add salad 
•dressing. 

This makes a very pretty salad. 
Serve on crisp lettuce. 

Cottage Cheese Omelet. 

Two eggs, 1/4 teaspoon salt, 3 
rounded tablespoons cottage cheese, 1 
tablespoon chopped pimentos, 2 table- 
spoons milk, Vs teaspoon soda. 

Beat the yolks and whites of the eggs 
separately. Add to the yolks the salt, 
the milk and the cheese with which have 
been blended the pimentos, finally fold 
in the stiffly beaten whites; pour into a 
hot frying pan in which has been melt- 
ed about V2 tablespoon butter. Cook 
the omelet slowly until the egg has set, 
place in the oven for a few moments 
to finish cooking and fold over in the 
center. Garnish with parsley. Other 
seasoning may be used, such as 
chopped parsley, green pepper or 
minced harm. 

Spiced Cheese Pudding. 

Two slices stale bread, 2 eggs, V2 
teaspoon salt, 1 cup milk, 1 cup cottage 
cheese, "M teaspoon soda, V2 cup sugar, 
% cup seeded raisins, V2 teaspoon all- 
spice, % teaspoon mace, V^ teaspoon 
cloves. 

Cut the bread into cubes and place 
in a greased baking dish. Beat the 



yolks and whites of the eggs separate- 
ly. Blend with yolks the milk, salt and 
sugar, and cheese, to which has been 
added the soda. Add the spice and 
chopped raisins and lastly fold in the 
stiffly beaten whites. Pour this mixture 
over the cubes of bi'ead and bake like 
a custard in a moderate (^ven. 

Corn muffins or cold rice cooked dry 
and flaky must be substituted for bread. 

CottaSe Cheese Club Sandwich. 

This sandwich is made of three good- 
sized slices of toasted bread, one or 
more being spread thickly with cottage 
cheese. Lettuce or water cress and sal- 
ad dressing are also used. The rest of 
the filling may be varied to suit the 
taste or the larder. The sandwich is 
cut diagonally across, and served on an 
individual plate with the halves ar- 
ranged in diamond shape. It is desir- 
able to toast the bread on one side only, 
and to cut it immediately after toast- 
ing, as otherwise the pressure of cut- 
ting crushes out the cheese and spoils 
the appearance of the sandwich. The 
cut slices may be placed together again 
while the sandwich is being filled, and 
the filling may be sliced through with 
a sharp knife. 

Variations: In addition to the cot- 
tage cheese, these club sandwiches may 
contain: 

1. Tomato, lettuce, mayonnaise 
dressing. 

2. Thin sliced cold ham spread with 
mustard, lettuce, mayonnaise. 

3. Sliced tart apple, nuts, lettuce, 
mayonnaise. 

4. Sliced orange, watercress, may- 
onnaise. 

5. Sliced Spanish onion, pimento, 
lettuce, mayonnaise. 

6. Two tiny strips of bacon, lettuce, 
mayonnaise. 

7. Cucumber or green pepper, pi- 
mento, lettuce, mayonnaise. 

8. Sweet sandwiches may be made 
with layers of cottage cheese and mar- 
malade, or a paste made of dried fruits.' 
For these the bread need not be toasted, 
and the lettuce and mayonnaise should 
not be used. 

Sandwich Fillings. 

Cottage cheese may be used as a 
sandwich filling, taking the place of 
meat or egg filling. Oatmeal, graham 
and brown bread lend themselves well 
to cottage cheese sandwiches. 

Variations: The cheese may be com- 
bined with nuts; grated cheese, pimen- 
tos, horse radish, chopped or sliced 
olives, whole or chopped nuts, sliced 
celery, chives, Spanish onions, raisins, 
dates, prunes softened by soaking, 
freshly crushed mint leaves, honey, 
jelly, or marmalade. 



XContinued on Page 44) 



THE MILKY WAY TO ECONOMY 43 

Skim Milk Is Good Food. 

It has the lime and protein and sugar of the whole milk. Use it, 
but use whole milk, too. Skim milk lacks fat and has not so much of the 
growth substances as has whole milk. 

Milk should not be the only food for children, of course. They need 
vegetables, fruits, and cereals. But even the bigger boys and girls 
should have milk. Milk is good for grown people, too. They still need 
the lime and protein and its other substances. Don't think of it only 
as a refreshing drink, but as a good nourishing food. 

MILK THE BEST FOOD INVESTMENT 

You cannot afford to do without milk. Every child ought to have 
a quart a day, every grown-up at least a pint. 

Why is milk so important? Everybody needs LIME, and milk is 
the best and cheapest way to get it. Children need lime to build bones, 
adults to keep their bones in good condition. Besides this, everybody 
needs some lime to keep the blood right. People seldom have enough 
if they do not use milk. Whatever other foods we may have, we cannot 
afford to leave milk out of the diet because of its lime. No matter how 
rich the diet may be, the adult should have at least one-half pint of milk 
a day, and no child should be expected to thrive with less than a pint. 

AMOUNT OF LIME IN 
1 cup of milk 

Y2 cup carrots 

1 egg 

2 slices of bread 



Milk is the cheapest food for lime. Buy milk. You and your chil- 
dren need its lime. 

Milk gives your children the body-building protein, one of the 
materials from which their bodies are made. Milk is like eggs and 
meat in this. When we drink milk we give our bodies proteins which 
are changed and become part of our muscles and blood. The milk pro- 
tein is good for everybody and especially good for children. They need 
a great deal of it because their bodies grow so fast. 

Milk gives your children lime and other salts which they need. 
There must be plenty of lime in their food, for a great deal of it is needed 
for their bones and teeth and a little for their blood and all other parts 
of their bodies. Right food, not drugs, is what children need. Big 
boys and girls and grown people, as well as children, need lime, because 
the bones are constantly wearing away little by little and must be re- 
placed. 

Milk is the chief food for lime. It is much richer in it than other 
common foods. These lines stand for lime, the top one for the lime in 
a cup of milk, the others stand for the lime in a serving of some other 
foods. Notice how much more there is in milk than in the others. 

(Continued on Page 45) 



44 



THE MILKY WAY TO ECONOMY 



Lemon Cheese Pie. 

One cup cottage cheese, 2-3 cup 
honey or % cup corn syrup, yolk of 1 
egg, beaten, 2-3 cup milk, 2 tablespoons 
butter, 2 tablespoons cornstarch, juice 
and grated rind of 1 lemon. 

Heat the milk, add the sweetening 
and the cornstarch, and cook the mix- 



ture until it is thick, stirring it con- 
stantly. Then add the egg, and cook 
the mixture until the egg thickens. Add 
the cheese, the butter, the jaice and the 
rind of the lemon. Pour the mixture 
into a well-baked crust made with pota- 
to or rice. Cover it with meringue, and 
brown it in a slow oven. 



CHEESE DISHES 



Rice with Cheese Sauce. 

Blanch half a cup of rice; add one 
cup of boiling water (or broth from left 
over meat flavored with celery, onion 
or parsley), half a cup of tomato puree 
and half a teaspoonful of salt. Let cook 
vintil the rice is tender and the liquid 
is absorbed. For the sauce, cook two 
tablespoonfuls of flour in two table- 
spoonfuls of butter; add one-fourth a 
teaspoonful each, of salt and pepper and 
one cup of skimmed milk and let cook 
until boiling. Add half a cup of grated 
cheese, and, when melted, serve with the 
rice as the main dish at luncheon or 
supper. 

Welsh Rabbit. 

One tables^poonful butter, % pound 
cheese, 2-egg-yolks or 1 whole egg, % 
cup cream, salt and paprika, ^/4 tea- 
spoonful soda. 

Put the butter into a hot dish, let 
melt and run over the bottom; add the 
cheese, grated or cut fine, stir constant- 
ly until the cheese is melted, then stir 
in the yolks of eggs, beaten and diluted 
with the cream; add also the salt, papri- 
ka and soda. Stir until smooth and 
creamy then serve on the untoasted side 
of bread, toasted but upon one side, 
and disposed in shallow, individual egg 
dishes. 

Cheese Timbales. 

Two tablespoonfuls butter, 2 table- 
spoonfuls flour, % cup cream, V2 cup 
milk, 1/2 cup white stock, V2 pound 
grated cheese, salt and paprika, 3 
whole eggs and 4 yolks of eggs. 

Make a sauce of the butter, flour and 
liquid; in this melt the cheese, and add 
the seasonings and the eggs beaten un- 
til well mixed. Bake in very small tim- 
bale moulds, standing on a folded pa- 
per in a pan of hot, not boiling water. 
Let cook until centers are firm. Serve 
hot with cream or tomato sauce. If de- 
sired more firm, use but one-fourth a 
cup of stock. 



Cream Cheese Salad. 

Mix one pint of soft cottage cheese 
with one-fourth cup of cream. Season 
with salt and pepper. Shape into balls 
and press two walnut meats into the 
top of each ball. Serve on lettuce with 
two thin strips of pimento as a gar- 
nish. 

Sandwich Filling. 

One cream cheese, V2 pint thick 
cream, pinch of celery salt, pinch of 
common salt, 1 ten cent bottle of stuffed 
olives cut in slices. Spread between 
buttered bread. 

Cheese and Horseradish Sandwiches. 

Mix cream cheese and fresh-grated 
horseradish with cream and a few drops 
of lemon juice. Use to spread graham 
or whole-wheat bread prepared for 
sandwiches. Serve with hot coffee and 



Cottage Cheese Loaf with Beas or Peas. 

One cup cottage cheese, % teaspoon 
soda, 2 cups cooked beans, 1 cup boiled 
rice (dry), 1 cup dry bread crumbs, 2 
tablespoons chopped onion, or % tea- 
spoon onion juice, 2 tablespoons butter, 
chopped celery or celery salt, or pimen- 
tos, or mixed poultry seasoning. 

Peas and small lima beans may be 
used whole. Mash larger beans or put 
them thi'ough the meat chopper. Mix 
beans, cheese, bread crumbs and sea- 
soning together well and form into a 
roll. The roll should be mixed very 
stiff, for it will become much softer on 
heating. Bake in a moderate oven, bast- 
ing occasionally with a well flavored 
fat. Serv^e with tomato or other sauce. 

Cheese and Potato Croquettes. 

One cup cottage cheese, 2 table- 
spoons chopped parsley, 1 rounding 
teaspoon chopped gi-een pepper, % tea- 
spoon soda, V2 teaspoon salt, dash of 
cayenne, dash of paprika. 

Mix these ingredients very thorough- 
ly and form into small rolls. Then im- 
bed the rolls in mashed potatoes which 
have been seasoned with salt and pep- 



(Continucd on Page 49) 



THE MILKY WAY TO ECONOMY 45 

MEALS FOR CHILDREN 

Conservation of children is as important for the nation as con- 
servation of food. The two must go together. We must protect the 
health of our children. They cannot grow strong and be active and 
happy without the right kinds of food. We know today better than 
ever before what those kinds are and how we must use them. 

Meals must be regular, breakfast at the same b^ur every morning, 
dinner at noon and supper early in the evening, oXthe minute each 
time. Every child needs at least three meals a day, v\v little children 
require four or five. All young children should go tt \^d soon after 
supper. 

Children should never have anything but water bet-^een meals. 
This they should have frequently. They should never have tea nor 
coffee to drink. 



Milk, the Great Protector Against Malnutrition, is the Best 
Growth Food. — If possible, every child under six should have a quart a 
day; those older, the same amount if it can be afforded. No child should 
have less than a pint a day. 

Little children will drink a cup of warm milk at each meal and 
take the rest on cereals or toast. Older children will drink less but will 
eat such milk dishes as cream soups, cereal puddings and scalloped vege- 
tables. 

The Best Breakfast For Children is Milk, Well-Cooked Cereal and 
Bread or Toast. — Stewed fruit may be added to keep the bowels reg- 
ulated. For children over six the milk may be flavored with a little 
cocoa and served hot. 

Cook Cereals Thoroughly — Corn meal and hominy grets may be 
given now and then. Serve the cereals with plenty of milk, but little or 
no sugar. A good sweetening is a very little molasses or syrup or a few 
cut dates, stirred in just before serving. 

Most children learn readily to 'eat cereals. Mothers should take 
pains to see that they are well cooked and insist on their being eaten 
for the sake of the children's health. 

Children's dinners should be simple, including milk, fresh vege- 
tables, potatoes, bread and, if possible, stewed fruit or a milk pudding. 

Green Vegetables Help to Make Children Grow. — For little chil- 
dren they should always be cooked and put through a sieve. This sifted 
pulp can best be combined with milk in a cream soup. Spinach, string 
beans, pinto and other dried beans, carrots and peas, fresh or dried, 
make excellent soups. Older children may have vegetables of many 
kinds. 

Fruit Helps to Keep Children's Bowels and Blood in Good Condi- 
tion. — Fruit juice should be included in the diet of very little children 
once a day (in the morning) between two meals. Stewed fruit, or per- 
fectly ripe raw fruit, should be given older children at least once a day. 
Bananas should be cooked unless they have brown-speckled skins, show-. 
ing that they are really ripe. Dried fruits may be used instead of fresh 
ones. Stewed prunes, baked apples, apple sauce, stewed figs and raisins 
are all excellent. But not even fruit should be allowed between meals. 

(Continued on Page 46) 



46 THE MILKY WAY TO ECONOMY 

Children's Suppers Should be Very Simple Indeed. — Bread or cereal 
and milk with a milk pudding will do nicely for this meal. Stewed fruit 
with gingerbread or cookies may take the place of the pudding. 

Milk puddings include custards, junket, rice, tapioca, corn meal and 
of cereal puddings. These are all fine for little children, who need 
ve ^;'atritious food to keep their active little bodies from getting thin 
an . wl ite instead of heavy and rosy. 

« Children shoul .. never be given tastes of other people's food, and 
ne^lBr have fried ^ ';\s, pickles, soda water, rich cake, rich puddings and 
sauVs. y' '"''*^ 

/ r 
VOW' CD MODELS FOR CHILDREN'S MEALS. 

_,c4fjr> MARY SWARTZ ROSE, Ph. D. 

(Life Extension Society, New York) 

Children x :^^ to 2. 

6 A. M. — 1 cup of warm milk. 

8.30 A. M. — 2 tablespoonfuls of prune pulp' and juice. 

9.30 A. M. — 1 cup of warm milk. 

V2 cup of well-cooked cereal (served with part of the milk) ; 1 small 
slice of toast. 
1.30 P. M. — 1 cup of warm milk. 

1 teaspoonful of egg yolk (in a little of the milk). 

1 slice of bread. 

1 teaspoonful of sifted and salted spinach, carrots or peas. 
5.30 P. M. — 1 cup of warm milk. 

V2 cup of well-cooked cereal (served with part of the milk). 

1 small slice of toast. 
10 P. M. — 1 cup of warm milk (this need not be given if the child sleeps through 
the night without it). 
If this food does not satisfy, give a little more milk, and bread, a teaspoon- 
ful of butter spread on the bread, or more cereal. Do not add other kinds of food. 

Children 2 to 4. 

7 A. M. — Juice of one orange or mashed pulp of 1 baked banana or. % cup of 
apple sauce (from fresh or dried apples). 
Bowl of well-cooked oatmeal, with milk. 
1 or 2 slices of lightly buttered toast. 
1 cup of milk to drink. 
10 A. M. — 1 cup of milk with or without one slice of bread. 
1 P. M. — Bowl of soup made with milk and one or two tablespoons of vegetable 
pulp. 
1 egg yolk on toast or with 1 small baked potato. 
1 or 2 slices of bread lightly buttered. 

1 small cup of rice or constarch pudding, served with milk. 
5.30 P. M. — Bowl of steamed rice, or other cereal with milk. 

1 or 2 slices of lightly buttered toast or bread. 

1 cup of milk to drink. 

Children 4 to 8. 

7 A. M. — 4 or 5 stewed prunes or 1 baked banana or V2 cup stewed fruit (fresh 
or dried). 
Bowl of well-cooked cereal (oatmeal, hominy, farina or coxjfi meal) 
with milk. 

2 slices lightly buttered toast. ^ 
1 cup of milk to drink. 

12.30 P. M. — Bowl of split pea soup with crisp crackers. 

1 baked potato or dish of creamed macaroni or boiled rice. 

Small serving of some green vegetable or of stewed fruit when 

possible. 
Cup of custard or bread pudding with milk. 

(Continued on Page 47) 




THE MILKY WAY TO ECONOMY 47 

5.30 P. M. — Scrambled egg on toast or bowl of cereal with dates and milk. 
Bread and butter. 
2 small plain cookies. 
Cup of milk to drink. 

Children 8 to 12. 

7 A. M. — Vz orange or 4 dates. 

Oatmeal with milk. 

Toast, lightly buttered. 

Milk to drink (may be made into cocoa). 
12.30 P. M. — Creamed macaroni sprinkled with grated cheese or ste^d navy 

beans with bread sticks, or split peas with bacon. 

Bread and butter. 

Stewed figs, raisins or fresh fruit in season. 

Gingerbread. 

Milk to drink. 
6 P. M. — Beef stew with potatoes and carrots. 

Bread and butter. 

Tapioca pudding with milk. 

Milk to drink. 

Some Other Things Besides Food Which Help to Make Children Well and Strong. 

SLEEP — Put the children under five to bed at 6 o'clock every night, those 
from five to seven to bed at 7, those eight to ten at 8, and those ten to twelve at 
9. Never break this rule. 

REST — Put the children under 6 to bed for an hour in the middle of the day. 
Make them stay there whether they sleep or not. 

FRESH AIR — Keep the windows in the sleeping room wide open. Sleeping 
out of doors or from a window tent is the best if it can be arranged. 

When milk is heated for children use a double boiler, but do not boil 
the milk. 

PASTEURIZATION OF MILK. 

Pasteurized milk is milk which has been heated to 145 degrees F. 
and held at that temperature for thirty minutes. 

Pasteurization has come to be a necessity in cities where large quan- 
tities of milk obtained from various sources are distributed. 

It should be subject to public supervision by proper authorities. 

Dr. Charles E. North says that under existing conditions ideal milk 
is pasteurized clean milk from healthy cows. 

Proper pasteurization of milk is at once a safeguard to public health 
and a protection of milk distributors. 

Lactation makes a heavier demand upon the mother foi^ mineral 
nutriment than any other incident in her life, and the most effi- 
cient method of providing the mineral requirement is, naturally, through 
the use of milk, or foods made from milk while she is nursing her baby. 

WHOLE MILK IS BEST. 

Every dairy farmer knows that whole milk is the best food for a 
young calf, and that if skim milk is substituted the calf begins at once 
to lose its sleek coat and thrifty appearance. The same is true of other 
animals. The young child also thrives best on whole milk. 

Dr. E. V. McCollum has discovered why this is true; namely, that 
a recently defined fait soluble growth-promoting factor exists to a far 
greater extent in milk fat than in any other, and is entirely lacking in 
vegetable oils and most butter substitutes. 

(Continued on Page 48) 



48 THE MILKY WAY TO ECONOMY 

CONDENSED MILK. 

"If you take canned milk as a regular diet for a young infant you 
will in all probability, do that infant a great injustice, because in canned 
goods, occasionally you will get a can in an unwholesome condition, from 
a bacteriological standpoint, and when you open a bad can you give your 
infant something which may blight his life. Infants should have ex- 
traordinary care in their feeding. No expense, or no reasonable expense 
should be spared in getting fresh, clean, wholesome milk for feeding 
infants. The infant is a delicate little thing compared with the adult, 
and we should give him extraordinary care because of it." 

—DR. E. V. McCOLLUM. 

WHAT IS THE EFFECT OF MALNUTRITION ON THE CHILD? 

"The child who suffers from malnutrition, regardless of what has 
caused this abnormal state, is very poor clay to mould," states a report 
of the New York School Lunch Committee. "Such children are usually 
torpid, irritable, and when they are not impervious to education, are 
backward and retard the progress of the rest of the class. It can hardly 
be doubted that the expenditure of money on the education of a child 
in this condition does not result in much benefit either to the child or 
the state. 

"The condition of a child's body is dependent on food, and it is es- 
sential to provide him with the most nourishing foods in adequate quan- 
tities and at proper times if we wish to fit him to meet the stern realities 
of life." 

WHAT IS THE GREATEST CAUSE OF UNDERFEEDING? 

Ignorance of food values and of how to get the most nutrition for 
money spent, is as much a cause of wrong feeding as is lack of money. 

MILK GIVES YOUR CHILDREN FUEL. 

Milk gives children the fuel to keep warm and to help them rmi 
and play and work, much as an automobile needs gasoline or a steam 
engine needs coal. Children are so active that they need more fuel for 
their size than grown people do. 

"Of all the fields of education, lione offers greater opportunity t© 
the educator for bringino; happiness into the Hves of people than teach- 
ing people how to live. As eating is one of the necessities of life, he 
who teaches another what is best for him to eat is helping that individ- 
ual to live." — ^William Eustis Brown. 

FOOD FOR SCHOOL CHILDREN 

The good health of a grown person depends largely on the food he 
ate when he was a child. Children must eat at regular times and shouJd 
be given food that will make muscle and bone and flesh. 

The breakfast of a school child should be: Fruit, a plate of well 
cooked cereal, milk and sugar, a soft cooked egg, bread and butter, milk. 

The dinner should be : Some meat or fish cooked without fat, maca- 
iioni, rice, a baked potato, fresh vegetable, simple pudding and bread. 

The supper should be: Bread and butter, stewed fruit and m^lk. 

Foods especially bad for children are tea, coffee, pies, pork, pickles, 
fried food and veal. 

(Continued on Page SI) 



THE MILKY WAY TO ECONOMY 



49 



per, forming a larger roll of each. Roll 
the finished croquettes in egg and bread 
crumbs and fry in a pan containing 
about 1 tablespoon of hot fat or brush 
with melted fat and brown in a hot 



Pimento and Cottage Cheese Roast. 

Two cups cooked cereal (rice, etc.), 1 
cup cottage cheese, 1 cup dry bread 
crumbs, 3 pimentos (chopped fine), 1 Vs 
teaspoons salt, ^,4 teaspoon soda, i/4 tea- 
spoon pepper, liquid, if necessary. 

Blend all together very thoroughly 
making the mixture very stiff. Form 
into a roll and bake about 25 minutes, 
basting from time to time with savory 
fat or meat drippings if necessary. 

Cottage Cheese Loaf. 

Two cups cottage cheese, 1 cup left- 
over cereal, 1 cup bread crumbs (dried 
in oven), 4 tablespoons peanut butter, 
1/2 cup chopped peanuts, 1 teaspoon 
onion juice, a pinch of sage, salt, ca- 
yenne and paprika, liquid, if necessary, 
to mix. 



Form into a loaf and bake in a hot 
oven 20 or 25 minutes or until brown. 
Or bake in a greased bread tin and turn 
out on a platter. The cracklings left 
from tried-out fat or partially tried-out 
ground suet may be used in place of 
peanut butter. 

Plain Cottage Cheese. 

Cottage cheese may be served plain, 
as the main dish of a luncheon or sup- 
per in place of cold meat. 

Variations: Mix broken nut meats, 
chopped pimentos, finely cut green pep- 
pers, diced cucumbers, or otiier crisp 
vegetables with the cheese. Horserad- 
ish, onion juice and parsley make a 
good combination. 

Season dry cheese rather well, pack 
into a buttered earthen or enamel dish, 
chill it, turn it out on a platter, and 
serve it in slices hke cold veal loaf. 

Mix with the cheese a small quantity 
of leftover ham or corned beef, finely 
ground, and season the whole with made 
mustard. Serve this in slices, or turn 
the mold out on a border of lettuec 
leaves. 



DRINKS 



Buttermilk a Food Drink. 

A pleasant, refreshing beverage and 
a naurishing food combined in one 
product is found in buttermilk. It 
contains practically all the food mate- 
rials of wfiole milk with the exception 
01 tne fat, most of whicfi is removed in 
the process of churning. Buttermilk 
contains about 3 per cent of protein, 
nearly 5 per ce»t of carbo-hydrates in 
tne lorm oi milk sugar, 0.7 per cent 
of mineral constituents, and 0.5 per 
cent 01 lat. inus a quart of butter- 
milk lurnishes slightly more than an 
ounce of proteisi, on€ of ttte chief body 
builders. 

The increasing consumption of but- 
termilk testifies to its popularity as a 
beverage. People are beginning to re- 
alize tnat it is much better to drink a 
glass 01 milk or b»ttermilk than it is to 
consume other drinks having little food 
value. Many pnysicians recommend 
buttermilk in the treatment of certain 
intestinal disorders, and it is also gain- 
ing in favor in hospitals. 

Prepared buttermilk is usually made 
from skim milk and has ail the chemi- 
cal properties of buttermilk. If it is 
churned, as is usually the case, it agrees 
in appearance and flavor with real but- 
termilk. In fact, it is often a better 
product especially if clean, sweet skim 
milk is used and it is carefully ripened 
and churned. Prepared buttermilk can 
be made in the city home but more uni- 
form results can be obtained when it 



is made on a large scale, and for that 
reason it is usually better to purchase 
it from a reliable dealer. 
Cocoa. 

For each person allow Vs cup of milk, 
% cup of water. Set on tlie stove 
when at the boiling point add 1 tea- 
spoon cocoa mixed with 1 teaspoon su- 
gar wet with a teaspoon of cream. Let 
boil 1 minute and serve. 

Whey Lemonade and Punch. 

. 1 qu^t whey, 6 tablespoons sugar, 
uice ot 2 lemons, slices ol lemon or a 
little grated or diced rind, nutmeg or 
einnamon; mix, chill and serve as a bev- 
erage. . 

Buttermilk Lemonade. 

"Buttermilk lemonade" usuallv re- 
quires the juice of 3 lemons to 1 quart 
01 buttermilk. The quantity of lemon 
and sugar however, should be varied to 
suit the taste of the individual. The 
beverage is delightful. 

Lemon Whey. 

Mix one pint milk, oi>e pint sugar 
the juice of two lemons and boil five 
minutes. Strain, sweeten to taste and 
set in icebox to cool. 

Coffee Lait. 

One tablespoonful of coffee and one- 
half cup cold water for eaeh person to 
be served, boil hard three minutes, add 
equal amount of hot milk, serve 



(Continflied on Page 50) 



50 



THE MILKY WAY TO ECONOMY 



Keeping Milk Sweet. 

To keep milk sweet in hot weather 



add two teaspoonfuls of limewater — 
which is beneficial rather than other- 
wise — to every pint. 

Milk sours and is thrown away. 
REMEDY. Heat while fresh m sealed 
bottles, cool quickly, cover, and place 
in the ice box or in a cold place. Cooled 
quickly, covered and kept cold, milk 
will not sour easily. 

To make milk sweet after it has 
started to turn put a little saleratus in- 
to the milk and put on the stove. Let 
it come to a boiling point, then take ott 
and set to cool. It will be as sweet as 

6V6r. 

Alices of stale bread dipped in milk 
and baked in a hot oven make dehcious 

When cream is whipped too much it 
will granulate. To bring it to the right 
consistency add about two tablespoons 
of milk to half a pint of cream, then 
turn the beater till clear. 

When boiling milk with tripe or on- 
ions, it will keep sweet for at least two 
days if you add a teaspoon of rice. 

A teaspoon of grated horseradish in a 
pan of milk will keep it sweet some 
time. 

Leaves of Rubber Plants can be kept 

glossy by .rubbing them with skim milk. 

Do not limit your supplies of milk 

and table butter, but consume it all. 

Dont waste an"y. 

Ink stain can be removed from a 
carpet by using 2 quarts of sour milk, 
sopping up with clean cloths. After the 
stain is removed wash the carpet well 
with warm water and a little ammonia 
to remove the grease. 

For ink spots on the carpet. Make a 
paste of sweet milk and cornmeal. This 
must be left on the spots over night. 
Sweep off the next morning and the col- 
ors will be found as bright as ever. 

To brighten oilcloth, rub all over 
with a cloth dipped in milk after wash- 
ing in the usual way. 

To remove wine spots from a white 
table cloth rub over spots powdered 
starch, then pour a little milk over the 
starch, leave for a while, then wash 
with soap and water. 

Cut a raw potato into small pieces 
and shake vigorously in the bottle, and 
stains will quickly disappear from milk 
or water bottles. 

If cracked dishes are boiled in 
enough sweet milk to cover them, for 
about 45 minutes, the cracks will glue 
together and the dishes will often 
stand almost as much usage as when 
new. 

We think of milk as a food ior ba- 



A FEW MILK FACTS. 

bies, as a beverage and as something 
to be used in cooking, but there are 
other uses to which it may be put. Milk, 
sweet or sour, is often used to take out 
ink stains. If the stained* garment or 
article is white, put to soak in sour milk 
over night. 

To remove mildew, soak over night 
in buttermilk and spread on the grass 
in the sun. 

To bleach clothes that have turned 
yellow, put them to soak in buttermilk 
for several days in a stone jar. Take 
out and rinse thoroughly and boil in 
light suds. 

To ^lean silver, put the silverware in 
a pan and pour on enough sour milk to 
cover it. Let stay until bright and 
clean; then wash in warm water and a 
few drops of ammonia. 

A cup of milk put in the ^water when 
boiling old potatoes will keep them 
from becoming discolored. 

Fresh milk boiled with cut sugar will 
soothe a cough. 

A thin person will greatly improve 
in appearance if he will drink a glass of 
warm milk every night before I'etiring. 
A person who is weary or exhausted 
will find a glass of hot milk very re- 
freshing. In case of tonsilitis, hot milk 
can often be taken when solid food 
cannot, and it helps to keep up the pa- 
tient's strength. 

If your teakettle has become in- 
crusted with lime, fill it with sour milk 
and let it stand a while. This will take 
off the lime. 



For Insomnia or Sleeplessness. 

Heat milk over boiling water until it 
is hot but not scalded. Shake in a few 
grains of salt and sip it by the tea- 
spoonful. One of the best "nightcap 
drinks." 



When it is necessary to cook milk do 
so in a double boiler. 

When heating milk for bread-making 
rub the pan around the edge with but- 
ter, and it will never boil over. 

If a shiny surface is desired on pas- 
try, brush lightly with milk. 

Valuable Cooking Wrinkles. 

When using milk it is useful to know 
that sour milk makes a spongy, light 
cake ; sweet milk, one which cuts like 
pound cake. With sour milk soda alone 
is used ; with sweet milk soda land 
cream of tartar. Never use fresh and 
sour milk for the same cake. Butter 
should be beaten to a cream, and the 
sugar added very gradually; next the 
yolks of eggs, then the flour, then the 
whites of the eggs, and finally the flav- 
oring or spice. 



(Continued on Page 51) 



THE MILKY WAY TO ECONOMY 51 

CANDY 

Chocolate Fudge. Penuchie. 

Two cups sugar, 2-3 cup sweet milk, 2 Three cups brown sugar, 1 cup cream 

J? 1 1 o ^4- A boil until it forms soft ball when tried 

teaspoonfuls molasses, 2 squares melted j^ ^^j^ ^^^g^. rj,^^^ remove from fire, 

chocolate. Boil this until when a little ^nd put in butter size of a walnut, 1 

dropped into cold water can be formed teaspoon vanilla, and 1 cup chopped 

into a ball. Remove from stove, add nuts. Beat until it begins to harden 

vanilla and butter size of an egg. Beat then pour into tin, cool and cut in 

until it thickens and pour into pans. squares. 

Nuts may be added. Old-fashioned Chocolates. 

Chocolate Fudge. Dilute the white of an egg \^th an 

equal amount of milk, stir in enough 

Two cups sugar, V2 cup rich milk, 3 confectioner's sugar to roll into balls. 

tablespoonfuls cocoa, 1 teaspoon butter. Flavor with 1 teaspoonful vanilla. Dip 

1 teaspoon vanilla. Stir sugar and balls into melted chocolate placed on 

, ,, ,, , , _.,, , , , waxed paper and set to cool, 

cocoa together then add milk, when hot ^ ^ 

add butter. Cook from 5 to 7 minutes Peanut Butter Fudge, 
or until it forms a soft ball in cold wa- ^^^ 1 ^ilk, 2 table- 

ter Add vanilla, take off stove and ^ J^^^^ Gutter. Cook 5 minutes 

beat until smooth and creamy. Pour ^^^^^ it begins to boil. Remove from 
in buttered dish and cut in squares. ^^^^^^ ^^^ ^ U^^l^ ^^^iH^ ^^^ beat until 

it thickens. Pour into buttered pan. 



SCIENTIFIC MILK TERMS 

Vitamines — The name given to the substances which promote growth. Compara- 
tively little is known of these growth-promoting elements except that they 
exist in some foods and not in others. Obviously the diet of a growing 
child is insufficient unless it includes food which furnishes Vitamines in 
liberal quantities. 

Calories — A calory is a unit of measurement just like an inch or a pound. It 
means the amount of heat required to raise the temperature of one pound 
of water one degree. It is used to measure the amount of fuel furnished 
by various articles of food and — consequently — to determine the energy 
value of such foods. 

Mineral Materials — The material which keeps the bones, teeth, nails, etc., in good 
repair. 

Carbohydrates and Fats — These two nutrients constitute the fuel which the body 
burns to generate heat and energy. 

Food Nutrients — Those parts of an article of food which the body can use for 
nourishment. The four main food nutrients are Proteins, Carbohydrates, 
Fats and Mineral Material. 

Proteins — The proteins are to the body just what brick and mortar are to a house 
— Building Material. The body requires a certain amount of protein to 
keep the muscles and tissues in repair. 

Pasteurized Milk — Milk that has been held at a temperature of 145 degrees for 30 
minutes and then quickly cooled to 40 degrees. This process destroys any 
harmful bacteria which may have found their way into the milk while it 
does not affect either the taste or the food value of the milk. 

Certified Milk — Raw milk produced and sold under the supervision of medical 
authorities who "Certify" as to its purity. 



FOOD NUTRITION — FUEL EQUIVALENTS 







'I )./^^,'?u^(s7r.^ 



FOOD NUTRITION "- PROTEIN EQUIVALENTS 






1 " *^ ^^0"l 




Courtesy of MASSACHUSETTS DAIRY BUREAU, P. M. Harwood, General Agent 



LIBRARY OF CONGRESS 




014 337 990 5 ^ 



