MHy 
A 7 



HEALTH EDUCATION 

IN 
RURAL SCHOOLS 



BY 
J. MACE ANDRESS, PH.D. 

Head of the Department of Psychology and Child Study, Boston Normal 

School, formerly Head of the Department of Psychology and Hygiene, 

State Normal School, Worcester, Mass., one-time member of the 

County Board of School Examiners, Saginaw County, Mich., 

author of " The Teaching of Hygiene in the Grades" etc. 





HOUGHTON MIFFLIN COMPANY 

BOSTON NEW YORK CHICAGO 

(gfc ttifcetfifce J&rejft' CambriD0c 



COPYRIGHT, 1919, BY J. MACE ANDRESS 
ALL RIGHTS RESERVED 



QH)e Rftersttse reg 

CAMBRIDGE . MASSACHUSETTS 
U . S . A 



TO MY FOUR CHILDREN 

JUDITH, CHARLOTTE, PHILIP 

AND RUTH 



I 'd rather have had something real to do with the acquisition 
and conservation of a healthier, happier, more productive, and 
a longer- lived world community of men and women than to 
have been a victor in the greatest commercial or military battle 
or the biggest political campaign the world has ever known. 

DR. THOMAS A. STOREY 



PREFACE 

THE winning of the war has long commanded the atten- 
tion of the American people. Our resources have been spent 
lavishly to make secure our liberties and the freedom of the 
world. Such a supreme crisis in our history revealed inspir- 
ing patriotism, but also a pathetic weakness in our citizens. 
Out of 2,510,706 men who were examined on the first draft, 
a vast army of 730,756 men were rejected on physical 
grounds. A large proportion of these physical defects might 
have been corrected or prevented if the schools had been 
doing their part to train children to conserve and improve 
their health. Such a serious flaw in public education must 
challenge the efforts of educators throughout the land. 
Several States, realizing the gravity of the situation, have 
recently passed laws making physical education obligatory 
and requiring a more extensive and practical teaching of 
hygiene. 1 The war has compelled us to recognize, as we never 
did before, the fundamental importance of health education 
as preparedness, not only for military service, but also for 
happy and efficient participation in civil life. 

Contrary to tradition and popular belief, country children 
have been found to be as defective physically and in many 
cases more defective than city children. Comparatively 
little has been done so far for the health of country children, 

1 A bill has been prepared by a committee of the National Committee 
on Physical Education for the Federal encouragement and promotion of 
physical education. It provides for an appropriation of $11,000,000 for 
the fiscal year ending June 30, 1919. By the year 1923 and thereafter the 
expenditure provided is $22,000,000. 



vi PREFACE 

Health education in rural schools is restricted largely to 
getting children to acquire a limited amount of informa- 
tion about health; almost nothing has been accomplished in 
actually training children to practice the laws of healthful 
living. 

This volume is based on the conviction that the practice 
of hygiene should be one of the foremost of the aims of the school. 
It is intended primarily for the teachers in the rural schools. 
To this end little attention is given to the theories of hy- 
giene except as knowledge of them seems necessary for 
practical health training. An attempt is made to point out 
the most important problems of hygiene and sanitation 
that confront the average teacher and to suggest how these 
problems may be met with a fair degree of success. To sum 
up the purposes of this book, it aims to present clearly and 
definitely: (1) the reasons why health education is so impor- 
tant; (2) a rather complete discussion of the principles of 
pedagogy involved; (3) subject-matter on hygiene not usu- 
ally available in the books accessible to teachers; (4) refer- 
ences to the best literature for teachers and children, par- 
ticularly that literature which may be secured free or at 
a nominal price; (5) drawings of hygienic devices which 
children may be taught to make through the instructions 
given; and (6) carefully thought-out plans for getting re- 
sults, not merely in terms of knowledge, but also in train- 
ing children in habits of personal hygiene, in getting them 
to improve the sanitation of schoolhouse and grounds, and 
finally in suggesting how the school may influence rural 
communities in health matters. 

Most of the practical suggestions presented have been 
tried out successfully by teachers in rural or city schools. 
They are strongly colored by the experience of the author, 
who was born in the country, attended the rural schools, 



PREFACE vii 

taught in the rural schools, served as a member of a county 
board of school examiners in the Middle West, and has been 
a student of country-life problems, particularly health prob- 
lems, for several years as an instructor in hygiene and child 
study in normal schools. 

While this book contributes little or nothing that is new 
to the science of hygiene, it does lay claim to a certain 
amount of originality in at least two ways. It is the first 
serious and thoroughgoing attempt to treat the subject of 
health education from the rural teacher's point of view, and 
to this end it is replete with detailed suggestions as to meth- 
ods and devices for promoting the health of country children 
and rural communities. It also represents a pioneer effort 
to work out a scale of measurement of the teacher's work. 
(See Chapter XVII.) This scale is crude, but with all its 
crudity (which cannot well be avoided) it shows briefly the 
scope of health education in the rural school and the value 
of different kinds of achievement. If conscientiously applied 
by rural-school teachers and superintendents it is believed 
that it will help to work a great improvement in health edu- 
cation in our rural schools. 

The class exercises at the end of each chapter are designed 
primarily for students in normal schools and county train- 
ing classes, although many of them are directly applicable 
to teachers in service. They are founded on the principle 
that the study of rural health problems should be based 
on first-hand studies of the conditions in rural districts and 
country schools. 

My debt to friends, boards of health, Government bu- 
reaus and publishers who have contributed generously to 
the success of this volume, is so great that detailed recogni- 
tion of their assistance is impossible. Acknowledgment is 



riii PREFACE 

made throughout the text to those who have contributed 
most in the way of subject-matter and illustrations. I am 
especially indebted to Dr. L. A. Averill, Editor of the Ameri- 
can Journal of School Hygiene, who read the manuscript and 
offered many helpful suggestions, and also to Dr. W. H. 
Burnham and Arthur W. Kallom who kindly assisted in 

reading the proof. 

J. MACE ANDRESS. 



CONTENTS 

I. WHY HEALTH SHOULD BE THE FIRST AIM OF THE 

SCHOOL 1 

IT. HEALTH CONDITIONS IN THE COUNTRY . . . .11 
HI. GETTING CHILDREN TO FORM HEALTH HABITS . . 38 
IV. STUDYING THE HEALTH OF THE CHILDREN ... 59 
V. SECURING THE COOPERATION OF PARENTS AND COM- 
MUNITY 78 

VI. PLANNING THE COURSE OF STUDY IN HYGIENE . . 91 
VH. THE WATER-SUPPLY AND SEWERAGE .... 124 
VEIL WAR ON FLIES, MOSQUITOES, AND OTHER DISEASE- 
CARRYING INSECTS 148 

IX. WAR ON RATS AND MICE 172 

X. HEATING AND VENTILATING 183 

XI. PLAY AND PHYSICAL EDUCATION 197 

XH. POSTURE AND HEALTH 229 

XIII. COMMON COLDS AND THE HYGIENE OF NOSE AND 

THROAT 248 

XIV. THE CARE OF THE TEETH 255 

XV. THE HYGIENE OF DIGESTION AND FOODS . . . 266 

XVI. THE CARE OF THE EYE AND EAR 290 

XVII. THE MEASUREMENT OF THE TEACHER'S WORK IN 

HYGIENE 806 

INDEX . 317 




ILLUSTRATIONS 

HEALTHY CHILDREN ABE THE GREATEST WEALTH OF THE NATION 

Frontispiece 
Photograph by the author 

A COUNTRY " LUNG-HOUSE" 16 

From Bashore's "Overcrowding and Defective Housing in the Rural Districts." 
Courtesy of John Wiley & Sons 

A MODEL DAIRY BARN 17 

Courtesy of H. P. Hood & Sons 

A CLEAN Cow BARN is ESSENTIAL FOR PURE MILK .... 17 

Courtesy of H. P. Hood & Sons 

WHICH SUPPLY OF DRINKING-WATER is SAFE? 134 

Courtesy of the State Board of Health of Virginia 

SCHOOL WELL SHOWING LACK OF PROTECTION FROM SURFACE AND 
WASTE WATER DRAINAGE A MENACE TO THE SCHOOL AND COM- 
MUNITY 135 

From Public Health Bulletin No. 77. Courtesy of U,S. Public Health Service 

WELL PROTECTED FROM SURFACE DRAINAGE 135 

Courtesy of the State Board of Health of Virginia 

ONE WAY IN WHICH THE SCHOOL MAY HELP THE COMMUNITY TO BE 
MORE HEALTHFUL AND ALSO CONSERVE ITS FOOD SUPPLY . . 178 

From Forbush's "Rats and Rat Riddance," with permission of the author 

THE BUBBLING DRINKING-FOUNTAIN is THE ONLY REALLY SAFE WAY 
OF PROVIDING DRINKING-WATER FOR SCHOOL-CHILDREN . . . 179 

Courtesy of the Waterman-Waterbury Company 

A GOOD HEATING AND VENTILATING SYSTEM FOR A RURAL SCHOOL . 190 

Courtesy of the Waterman-Waterbury Company 

A SCHOOLROOM IN WHICH HEALTH is CONSIDERED AS IMPORTANT AS 
LEARNING TO READ OR WRITE . 191 

Courtesy of the Waterman-Waterbury Company 
LUNCH-HOUR IN A RURAL SCHOOL IN OHIO 220 

Courtesy of Miss Kaufman, Ohio State University 

A SLIDE is THE DELIGHT OF EVERY PLAYGROUND 220 

Photograph by the author 



xii ILLUSTRATIONS 

A RURAL SCHOOLHOUSE IN MICHIGAN, TYPICAL OF THE 212,000 ONE- 
ROOM RURAL SCHOOL BUILDINGS IN THE UNITED STATES . . . 221 

Photograph by the author 

DEMONSTRATION RURAL SCHOOL OF THE FIRST DISTRICT NORMAL 
SCHOOL, KIRKSVILLE, MISSOURI 221 

A LIVE GAME OF VOLLEY-BALL 232 

Courtesy of the Playground and Recreation Association of America 

TESTING POSTURE WITH A WINDOW POLE 233 

From Bancroft's " The Posture of the School Child." With the permission of The 
Macmillan Company 

HEAD EXERCISE FOR CORRECTING A FORWARD DROOP OF THE NECK . 233 

Photograph by the Author 

STARTING POSITION FOR THE SHOULDER BLADE EXERCISE . . . 233 

Photograph by the author 

UPWARD STRETCHING THAT TENDS TO CULTIVATE GOOD POSTURE . . 233 

Photograph by Lulu Donovan 

CORRECT SITTING POSITION 242 

Courtesy of the publishers 

A COMMON EXAMPLE OF BAD POSTURE OFTEN DUE TO FATIGUE OR 
BADLY ADJUSTED FURNITURE 242 

Photograph by the author 

ADENOID GROWTH AND ITS EFFECTS 243 

From Winslow's " The Prevention of Disease" Courtesy of W. B. Sounders 
Company 

BEFORE AND AFTER REMOVAL OF ADENOIDS 243 

From Terman's " The Hygiene of the School Child." With tlie permission of 
Houghton Mifflin Company 



HEALTH EDUCATION IN 
RURAL SCHOOLS 

CHAPTER I 

WHY HEALTH SHOULD BE THE FIRST AIM OF THE SCHOOL 

It may well be claimed that the care of individual and family 
health is the first and most patriotic duty of a citizen. 

(Ex-President Taft.) 

Necessity of definite aims in education. There are few 
worthy achievements in life that have been accomplished 
without conscious purpose. The building of bridges, the 
digging of canals, the painting of pictures, the writing of 
books the numberless results of skillful effort owe 
their existence in large measure to clear and definite pur- 
poses. What is true of life in general is true of education. 
The schools may accomplish some things that they little 
intend, but the experience of our best teachers indicates 
that the teacher is not likely to be successful in the highest 
sense of the word unless she has worthy aims. Even then 
she may not gain the ends sought because she has not found 
the right methods; nevertheless, the aim is of primary 
importance. Every teacher who wishes to rank high in her 
profession should first ask herself what the big aims in 
education are, and how each subject and influence of the 
school may help toward the realization of these aims. Let 
us think for just a moment of these general aims. 

General aims in education. If you ask the man in the 
street why education is valuable, the probability is that 
he will tell you that it will help a man to earn his living. 



2 HEALTH EDUCATION IN RURAL SCHOOLS 

Many opportunities to earn money are open to the man 
who can read and write and calculate, or who has had some 
special training, that would never be offered to one illiter- 
ate or without unusual education. This bread-and-butter 
aim is regarded by many people as the most important 
aim in education. 

Happiness is thought by others to be even a greater 
goal. It is believed by many that education enables one to 
enjoy a larger world of books, art, and nature that would 
otherwise be unknown. 

Practically all great teachers and writers on education 
have looked upon morality as one of its foremost aims. 
Most educators agree that no matter what the fruits of 
any educational system, it must prove a failure unless it 
produces moral men and women. 

Knowledge for its own sake, often defined as culture, has 
been from time immemorial a highly prized treasure. Just 
now, however, it seems to be growing into disfavor. 

Within the last few decades we have heard much about 
education fitting the individual to be useful as a member 
of society. This broad purpose is being referred to more 
and more as good citizenship. It is made to include almost 
every other aim we have mentioned. 

Among the numerous aims mentioned by educational 
writers is health. This we believe to be necessary for the at- 
tainment of practically every worthy ambition and achieve- 
ment. It is the foundation of the realization of all the big 
aims in education. 

Health is necessary in the making of a living. To make 
one's way in the world, to provide against want, to be to 
a certain extent financially independent of others, means 
that one needs to approach his work with a maximum of 
enthusiasm, skill, and energy. This is impossible unless the 
individual is at a high standard of physical and mental 



HEALTH THE FIRST AIM OF THE SCHOOL 3 

efficiency. The worker suffering from disease or some physi- 
cal defect does an inferior kind of work and less of it than 
he would if he were in normal health. If his physical dis- 
ability becomes serious, he is often compelled to give up his 
work and live on his savings, and, if these prove inadequate, 
he is reduced to accepting private or public charity and so 
becomes a burden to society. Perhaps you remember some 
farmer who was fairly prosperous but fell sick; he was com- 
pelled to rent his farm at great economic loss, doctors' bills 
increased, and eventually he found it necessary to mortgage 
or sell his farm, and his family was deprived of the neces- 
saries of life. 

Many industrial concerns, business establishments, and 
professions are beginning to realize in a practical way the 
relation of health to efficiency. Some manufacturing estab- 
lishments make a careful physical examination of their 
prospective employees to find out whether they have the 
health necessary to undertake successfully the severe strain 
that may be imposed upon them. If the applicants suc- 
cessfully pass the examination and they are allowed to 
enter the industry, the plant is made as sanitary as possi- 
ble, medical attendance is supplied, and gymnasia and 
athletic grounds are often provided for leisure hours. So 
many accidents on railroads have been due to the defec- 
tive eyesight of engineers that now all candidates for 
such positions are required to pass certain eye tests. Many 
normal schools will admit only those students who pass a 
standard physical examination. This is as it should be; for 
the pupil who enters school with such disabilities may have 
a physical breakdown before the course is completed or may 
fail in her work. If she enters the profession she may be 
forced to retire in a short time because of sickness or fail- 
ure. Every year it is becoming increasingly difficult for 
those in poor health to enter the professions and vocations 



4 HEALTH EDUCATION IN RURAL SCHOOLS 

which are best paid. No matter what work is attempted, 
ill-health is always a handicap. 

The acquisition of knowledge depends on a healthy 
mind and body. The large number of pupils who fail in their 
school work because of illness is sufficient evidence of the 
value of health in getting knowledge. Dr. Rapeer estimates 
that ill-health and physical defects function largely in 
causing about fifteen per cent of elimination, sixteen per 
cent of non-promotion, and seventeen per cent of retarda- 
tion. A recent investigation of the "Causes of Absence 
from Rural Schools in Oklahoma," under the direction of 
Dr. E. N. Clopper l shows that illness was responsible for 
the loss of 44,148 days or about twenty-four per cent of the 
total number of absences. It is reasonable to believe that 
much of this was preventable. An enormous amount of 
evidence has now accumulated to prove that decayed teeth, 
malnutrition, eye-strain, and unfavorable home and school 
conditions interfere materially with the mental progress 
of children. 

Health makes for a higher morality. Not everybody 
who is healthy is honest, truthful, or charitable, but any 
one who stops to think for a moment will realize that his 
moral life is likely to have a better tone when he is in a 
better physical condition. The bad cold tends to make one 
more irritable and unjust to his fellows; he is more likely 
to say unjust words, to find fault, to do unkind acts, and 
to exaggerate his statements in conformity to his moods. 
There are many cases in our prisons and reformatories and 
public schools that seem to have criminal tendencies which 
have been proved to be due to abnormal physical condi- 
tions, such as severe eye-strain, impacted teeth, etc. When 
these conditions have been removed, the individual often 
returns to a normal moral life. 

1 Child Labor Bulletin, New York, Pamphlet 281, September, 1917. 



HEALTH THE FIRST AIM OF THE SCHOOL 5 

There was a time several centuries ago when it was be- 
lieved that the infliction of every sort of hardship upon the 
body would lead to moral excellence, but these views in 
the light of modern science have now been discarded. 

Health is conducive to happiness. There is a variety of 
elements involved in the mental state known as happiness, 
but few will dispute the statement that no matter how 
successful or prosperous one may be, happiness and ill- 
health seldom occur together. 1 Everybody knows that 
even an ordinary malady like a bad cold, a headache, or a 
toothache upsets one's mental world, causes optimism to 
give way to pessimism, courage to despair, and enjoyment 
to physical pain. It is not uncommon to read in the news- 
papers of men becoming so despondent because of ill- 
health that they have committed suicide. The man with 
a good digestion and steady nerves usually sustains the 
misfortunes of the years with a certain amount of ease and 
builds a sane and wholesome philosophy. 

Preparedness and health. To-day the word "prepared- 
ness" is in everybody's mouth. Whether universal peace or 
more wars are ahead there can be no doubt but that health 
is necessary for the highest degree of individual or national 
success. The citizen who is best prepared to do some useful 
thing well is most valuable to the country. He may serve 
the cause in field or factory, as a producer of foods, clothing, 
munitions, or other necessaries, or in the trenches. No 
matter in what capacity he may serve, his value is condi- 
tioned primarily, not by his skill, but by his vigor of lungs, 
heart, muscles, and digestion. The number now engaged 
in the arts of peace who are suffering from physical disabili- 
ties, thereby disqualifying them for the largest measure of 
service, is, according to our most reliable statistics, so vast 

1 The Virginia State Board of Health publishes these words on all its 
health bulletins: "Health is Happiness." 



6 HEALTH EDUCATION IN RURAL SCHOOLS 

as to be appalling. So great are these disabilities that only 
30,000 out of the 160,000 men who enlisted in the United 
States Army in 1915 were accepted. 1 Many of these de- 
fects would not interfere seriously with ordinary occupa- 
tions; yet, says Dr. Small, who analyzed these statistics, 
in the report of the United States Commissioner of Educa- 
tion for 1916, "the really impressive thing revealed by these 
figures is the fact that a very large part of the disabilities 
recorded are of such a nature that they might have been 
corrected or prevented in childhood by health supervision 
in the schools." In a similar vein Dr. Averill, editor of the 
American Journal of School Hygiene, writes: 

We have failed to mark the suggestive parallel between the 
physically unfit school-child and the physically unfit soldier. We 
have accepted silently the reports so often made to the effect that 
three fourths of all school-children are physically defective and 
that three fourths of all applicants for admission into the army 
are similarly defective. It is only in a national crisis such as the 
present one that these facts are driven home to us in their true 
perspective. If the crisis develops to more alarming proportions 
we shall come to feel all the more keenly that, in the last analysis, 
the real potential bulwark of a nation is the child in the school- 
room, and that it is largely his opportunities for correct, robust 
development that measure the ultimate home defense of a people. 

As long as our schools tolerate preventable physical 
inefficiency, just so long must we wait for that kind of pre- 
paredness which will not only fit our children to be soldiers, 
but also to meet the varied problems of life with success. 

Health is the corner-stone of good citizenship. The 
good citizen may be defined roughly as one who provides 
for his individual welfare and at the same time makes a 
positive contribution to the welfare of society. The healthy 

1 The requirements for the men of the first draft were not so exacting, 
but even then 29.11 per cent of the men examined were rejected. (See 
Preface, p. v.) 



HEALTH THE FIRST AIM OF THE SCHOOL 7 

man may not be a good citizen because his ambitions and 
energies are turned in the wrong direction, but certainly 
a man can do little for himself or his fellow-men unless 
he has normal physical powers. Health makes for indi- 
vidual and social welfare, happiness, and prosperity. Good 
citizenship cannot thrive without it. 

Disease is preventable: life may be lengthened. Pre- 
ventive medicine is still in its infancy, but within the last 
quarter of a century it has recorded some of the most 
brilliant achievements in the history of civilization. Dis- 



70.9 














51. 8 




39J 




38.9 




31.0 


30.9 


22.4 


16.0 


1871 
to 

1875 


1876 1881 1886 1891 1896 1901 1906 1911 1916 
to to to to to to to to 1st 
1880 1885 1890 1895 1900 1905 1910 1915 8 mos. 



FIG. 1. DECLINE IN TYPHOID FEVER DEATH-RATE IN BOSTON, PER 
100,000 POPULATION, BY FIVE-EAR PERIODS SINCE 1871 

A graphic representation of the results of better sanitation and a more careful observation 
of the laws of health. 

(Reproduced with the permission of the Department of Health, City of Boston.) 



8 HEALTH EDUCATION IN RURAL SCHOOLS 

eases like smallpox have been the scourge of the world, 
but smallpox has become almost extinct among those na- 
tions that have compulsory vaccination. Diphtheria, 
malaria, yellow fever and typhoid have lost their terrors. 
Men are beginning to get an appreciation of the view ex- 
pressed by Pasteur when he said, " It is within the power of 
man to rid himself of every parasitic disease." Wherever 
hygiene and sanitation are in control, the average length of 
life has been prolonged. Dr. Irving Fisher, of Yale, esti- 
mates that life may be lengthened at least fifteen years 
by the application of the fundamental laws of hygiene. 

In a booklet entitled Haw to Live Long l Dr. Fisher 
presents fifteen rules of health which, if properly observed, 
he believes will make for health and long life. The teacher 
would do well to keep these rules in mind. They are as 
follows: 

Air: 

1. Have fresh air where you live and work. 

2. Wear light, loose clothes. 

3. Spend part of your time in the open air. 

4. Have lots of fresh air where you sleep. 

5. Breathe deeply. 

Food: 

6. Avoid eating too much. 

7. Do not eat much meat and eggs. 

8. Eat various kinds of food. 

9. Eat slowly. 

Habits: 

10. Have your bowels move each day. 

11. Stand, sit, and walk erect. 

12. Avoid poisonous drugs. 

13. Keep away from catching diseases. 

1 Teachers will be able to secure a copy of this valuable publication by 
writing the Metropolitan Life Insurance Company, New York City. A 
three-cent stamp should be enclosed. 



HEALTH THE FIRST AIM OF THE SCHOOL 9 

Activity: 

14. Work hard, but play and rest too. 

15. Be cheerful and learn not to worry. 

Health education is the first work of the school. Reading, 
writing, and arithmetic have always been considered as the 
essentials in every educational program, but these are 
really of secondary importance. Of what use are these tools 
if one is incapacitated through ill-health from using them. 
Mental efficiency depends on normal bodily conditions. 
Since health is not only the foundation of skill, but also 
of happiness and success and the other virtues that belong 
to good citizenship, it should be the first aim of the school. 
"What doth it profit a man to gain the whole world and 
lose his own health?" Any school that neglects the instruc- 
tion and training of its pupils in the getting and maintain- 
ing of health has no true vision of its real function in soci- 
ety; it is building its house upon the sand. 

REFERENCES 

Andress, J. M. The Teaching of Hygiene in the Grades (Houghton Mifflin 
Company), chap. I. 

Fisher, Irving. Bulletin of the Committee of One Hundred on National 
Health. (Washington, D.C.) 

Rapeer, L. W. Educational Hygiene (Scribner's), chap. I. 

Terman, L. W. The Hygiene of the School Child (Houghton Mifflin Com- 
pany), chap. i. 

Thorndike, E. L. Education (Macmillan), chaps, i, u, in. 

CLASS EXERCISES 

1. Do you know anybody who was so negligent about the care of his 
health that he was finally forced to discontinue his work for a long 
period of time? Estimate the financial loss to him. How did it affect 
others? 

2. Examine the latest report of your State Board of Health for any 
statements as to preventable financial losses because of illness or 
death. 

3. How much money is your town spending per capita for health? 
Compare this expenditure with the amounts spent for other purposes. 
Make a graph to show these comparisons. 



10 HEALTH EDUCATION IN RURAL SCHOOLS 

4. Visit a rural school. What evidence do you find to show that hygiene 
is or is not a fundamental subject in the curriculum? 

5. Can a teacher do her work better if she is in good health? Why? 
What are you doing to maintain and also to improve your health? 

6. Study your community to determine the most prevalent diseases. 

7. Find out the names of the members of your local board of health. 
Are they efficient and active? 

8. Do you know men who were not admitted to the American Army 
because of physical defects? Find out the exact nature of these de- 
fects. Might these defects have been corrected by proper health 



supervision? 



9. Find out the number of absences in some rural school for a term or 
year? What proportion of them were due to illness? What propor- 
tion of these illnesses were preventable? 



CHAPTER II 

HEALTH CONDITIONS IN THE COUNTRY * 

Statistics show that most physical defects are as prevalent 
or more prevalent among pupiJs in rural schools as among 
those who go to school hi the city. (Dr. Thomas D. Wood.) 

The country usually thought to be more healthful than 
the city. One of the earliest memories of my boyhood was 
a feeling of pity for those who were compelled to live in 
the city; for chance glimpses of the metropolitan districts 
showed that many of the inhabitants lived in crowded 
tenements and were denied even a plot of green grass. 
And among the middle classes, who owned houses and lots 
worth several times more than my father's farm, the space 
was so limited that I wondered how they managed to live. 
In a high-school debate on the question: "Resolved, that 
the country is a more desirable place to live in than the 
city," I remember that the side in favor of the country 
based practically all of its arguments on the proposition 
that the country is much more conducive to health than 
the city. But, as nearly as I can remember, this proposi- 
tion was not based on any statistical information, but 
rather on mere beliefs. 

The natural opportunities for health in the country. The 
belief in the superior healthfulness of the country over the 
city is due in all probability to the natural advantages 
possessed by the country. The city being inferior to the 
country in these respects, the conclusion is that people in 
the country are healthier than in the city. For example, the 
inhabitants of the rural districts instead of living in con- 

1 The greater part of this chapter appeared in the American Journal of 
School Hygiene for May 1, 1917. 



12 HEALTH EDUCATION IN RURAL SCHOOLS 



gested localities are scattered over wide areas. Often the 
houses of farmers are miles apart, and, even in the most 
thickly settled portions of our agricultural sections, the 
houses as compared with city homes are quite isolated. In 
the country there is an abundance of fresh air, sunshine, 
and nourishing foods. The farmer may raise his own fruits, 

grains, and vegeta- 
bles and produce 
his own eggs and 
milk. This personal 
care ought to in- 
sure food of good 
quality and clean- 
liness. There is lit- 
tle possibility of 
food being contam- 
inated as it might be 
if it passed through 
many hands. Peo- 
ple in the country 
while doing their 
daily work get plen- 
ty of vigorous exer- 
cise in the open air. 




FIG. 2. A MAP SHOWING ONE OF THE DISAD- 
VANTAGES OP A LAKGE CITY AS COMPAKED TO 
THE COUNTKY 



Then, too, the coun- 



Black spots show the location of dairies which send Bos- try, because of its 
ton its daily supply of 370,000 quarts of milk, nearly ninety mi i A 4- c Pr *mit\r anrl 
per cent of which comes from out of the State. Note the dis- 4 uiet ' S( 11 W ana 



tances of most of these black spots from Boston, showing 

clearly how such milk must necessarily be several days old 

before it even gets to Boston, after which mixing, grading, Spontaneously 

pasteurizing, and delivery takes still more time 



beauty, lends itself 
to 



(Courtesy of the Department of Health of the City of 
Boston.) 



peace and sanity of 
mind. While the 
city dweller lives 

among strenuous confusion and exacting industrial condi- 
tions, the farmer leads an independent life in surround- 



HEALTH CONDITIONS IN THE COUNTRY 13 



ings conducive to health of mind and body. Consequently 
the people in the country must be healthier than those in 
the city. Such are the ordinary conclusions. What are the 
facts? Fortunately a number of investigations have now 
been made which enable us to establish conclusions on 
more authentic information. 

New York City surpasses country in healthfulness. The 
study of statistics shows that the common notion of the 
supreme healthfulness of the country is not based on reliable 
information. A quarter of a century ago this belief would 
have been justified; but within the last decade or so the 
city has made wonderful strides in hygiene and sanitation. 
The country has lagged behind and its death-rate is prac- 
tically the same that it was forty or fifty years ago. A 






3 



19 



/\ 



16 



15.2 

$ 



152 



J4.3 



FIG. 3. DIAGRAM SHOWING THE DEATH-RATE IN NEW YORK CITY COM- 
PARED WITH THE DEATH-RATE IN RURAL NEW YORK 

(From New York Farmers' Bulletin No. 62.) 

glance at the diagram above shows that the death-rate in 
the city of New York was greater than that in rural New 
York up to 1910, but after that date it fell below that of 



14 HEALTH EDUCATION IN RURAL SCHOOLS 

rural New York. To-day it is safer to live in the largest 
city in the United States than in the country surrounding 
it. This is a brilliant achievement in the history of pre- 
ventive medicine, for it was undoubtedly a result of care- 
ful health supervision in matters pertaining particularly 
to improved sources of the water, milk, and general food- 
supply, the proper disposal of sewage and garbage, and 
the application of the laws of hygiene. As Dr. Briggs, the 
State Commissioner of Health for the State of New York 
says, "the rural districts have failed to realize the great 
importance of improved sanitation," and "the rural death- 
rate from general diseases, typhoid fever, malaria, diar- 
rhoea, and enteritis, is greatly in excess of that in the urban 
districts." What is true of the State of New York may be 
typical of the whole of the United States. There is a general 
consensus of opinion that the country has been touched 
but little by the great movement of health which has 
reached our large cities. 

Let us consider some of the facts which throw light on 
the actual health conditions in rural communities. 

Defective housing in the country. The broad acres of 
the country and the long distance between dwellings are 
so striking that one is likely to overlook the character of 
the houses themselves. Dr. Bashore, an inspector for the 
Pennsylvania Department of Health, conducted an investi- 
gation which was made for the most part in a typical farm- 
ing community, inhabited by native-born Americans. His 
findings are somewhat surprising. He found the housing 
conditions bad. Much of this was due to defective build- 
ing. It is unusual in the country to employ an architect. 
The builder is ordinarily a country carpenter whose first 
aim is to get the most building on the land for the least 
money. Sometimes the owner himself plays architect, 
and then the results very often may be worse. The question 



HEALTH CONDITIONS IN THE COUNTRY 15 

of health has little or no bearing on the character of the 
building to be constructed. As a result of such a state of 
affairs country houses often have grave sanitary defects. 
Frequently they are built on low ground, have inadequate 
window space, poor lighting, and a questionable method of 
disposing of sewage. 

The illustration opposite page 16, taken from Dr. 
Bashore's book, Overcrowding and Defective Housing in the 
Rural Districts, shows a type of rural dwelling altogether 
too common in the country. It is in the open country, but 
the lack of window space greatly limits the sunshine and 
ventilation. It has a bad history, having been the home 
of many suffering from tuberculosis. 

Overcrowding and ignorance of hygiene. Even in the 
open country there is a good deal of overcrowding resulting 
not so much from bad buildings as from the ignorance of 
their inmates. In speaking of this Dr. Bashore says: "For 
example, a nurse from one of the State Dispensaries, in her 
visiting work, came across a certain farmhouse where five 
people were accustomed to sleep in one not very large bed- 
room which had only one small window and even that was 
nailed shut; one of these five had incipient tuberculosis. 
These people were well-to-do farmers living in a large 
twelve-room stone house, and simply crowded into one 
room for the sake of economy presumably to save coal 
and wood." 

In his interesting study Bashore also refers to the over- 
crowding in certain mountain districts of Pennsylvania. 
"It has been noted in these places," he says, "that the 
natives do not have the strong, healthy build, and a color 
redolent of health, but the thin, pale, and wan features of 
those suffering from the lack of pure air. Yet these people 
live in the purest of God's fresh air, in places akin to those 
in which we build our Sanatoria. Why is it? In many 



16 HEALTH EDUCATION IN RURAL SCHOOLS 

instances the explanation seems to be dependent on the 
personal habits of these mountaineers, who, on the advent 
of winter, 'hole up/ a good deal like certain animals. 
They lay in a supply of wood, but as wood is becoming 
scarce and they are generally lazy and shiftless, the supply 
is not over-abundant, so they economize space and heat, 
and have fire only in the cook-stove in the kitchen. Win- 
dows and unnecessary doors are nailed shut, and here 
around the stove the family spend most of the winter, eat 
and sleep in one or at the most two rooms; and the result? 
The faces you see here in these mountain homes remind you 
of the faces you see in the densely crowded, insanitary 
tenements of the cities. The complete outdoor life of sum- 
mer is barely able to combat the bad air and lack of air 
during the winter months, and a chronic condition of 
lowered vitality results." 

To the possible objection that Dr. Bashore's investiga- 
tions reveal conditions that are not typical of rural dis- 
tricts, let us consider some of the more extensive inquiries 
and surveys. 

A rural sanitary survey of four Indiana counties. Dur- 
ing the summer and fall of 1915 the State Board of Health 
of Indiana conducted a survey of four counties in Indiana. 
No incorporated towns and cities were inspected because 
the survey was entirely rural. The rural population of these 
four counties according to the United States Census method 
was 24,650, or 69.5 per cent of the total population. The 
inspectors employed visited every farmhouse in the counties 
named, made a careful survey of each, and reported their 
findings. 

A simple score card based on ten points, each to have ten 
for its highest figure, was adopted: 100 was to stand for a 
house that was perfect in its hygiene and sanitation, and 
the total of the scores allowed by the investigator would 




i i 
II 



i 
a i 

- 




A MODEL DAIRY FARM 
(Courtesy of H. P. Hood & Sons.) 




A CLEAN Cow BARN is ESSENTIAL FOR PURE MILK 

(Courtesy of H. P. Hood & Sons.) 



HEALTH CONDITIONS IN THE COUNTRY 17 

be the percentage standing. A margin of 25 per cent was 
to be allowed for the standard, and all homes which scored 
under seventy-five per cent were to be considered insani- 
tary. 

These were the points scored: (1) site; (2) sanitary con- 
ditions; (3) house; (4) cellar; (5) ventilation; (6) water- 
supply; (7) sewage-disposal; (8) barn, barnyard, pig-pen, 
coops; (9) disposal of manure; (10) health; remarks. 

The instructions for scoring were as follows: 

1. Site. To score 10, the site must be really good, rather high, 
good natural drainage or else tile-drained or ditched. At least a 
few trees, pleasant, attractive. 

2. Sanitary condition of premises. To score 10, premises must 
be reasonably clean. Not littered, no trash of any amount; 
order, no confusion must prevail. No sodden or muddy places, 
cleanliness apparent. Garbage disposed of decently. 

3. House. To score 10, the house must not be dilapidated. 
Passable repair, first floor at least two feet above the ground level 
and ventilated beneath. Interior must be clean and no insanitary 
smells or odors. Halls and ceilings in good condition; carpets, 
furniture and beds clean. There must be a general air of cleanli- 
ness and comfort. 

4. Cellar. To score 10, cellar must be dry, clean, well-lighted 
and ventilated. No decayed vegetables, no trash, no musty 
or other smells. 

5. Ventilation. To score 10, windows must be in condition to 
easily open and close. Ask if in cool and cold weather the house 
is aired at least once daily and if bedroom windows are opened 
wide at night. If not, the score is unless the house is heated with 
grates or fireplaces and the door and windows fit loosely, then the 
score is 5. 

6. Water-supply. If dug well, score 0. If driven, drilled, or 
bored, not less than twenty feet deep, good well-curb either of 
wood, cement, stone, or brick, passable waste-trough or drain, and 
at least one hundred feet distant privy, score 10, unless analysis is 
bad. 

7. Sewage-disposal. If by privy with or without pit, when 
filthy, if old, dilapidated, not screened, markedly odorous, score 0. 



18 HEALTH EDUCATION IN RURAL SCHOOLS 

If by septic tank or underground disposal and working satis- 
factorily, score 10. If privy has a pit, is in good repair, if properly 
screened, pit not over three fourths full, not malodorous, then 
score 10. 

8. Barn, barnyard, pig-pens, coops. To score 10, barn must be 
in reasonable repair and reasonably clean, barnyard must be 
reasonably well drained, clean and free from trash and litter. 
Pig-pens and chicken-coops must be at least fifty feet from house, 
and not filthy and malodorous. 

9. Disposal of manure. To score 10, the manure must be re- 
moved every day during spring, summer, and autumn and spread 
upon the ground, or it must be kept in fly-tight, covered pits or 
bins. Accumulations of unprotected manure, score 0. 

10. Health. To score 10, the health of the family must have 
been good for the preceding two years. One or more cases of 
typhoid, consumption, dysentery, influenza, severe rheumatism, 
apoplexy, paralysis, or dyspepsia make the general family health 
score 0. In scoring health, if infectious diseases have existed 
within two years, each disease (not each case) cuts off two points. 

Inspectors must use their best judgment and common sense 
in scoring. If any points appear not named in the directions, 
record the same under remarks, or work them into the score 
according to reason. 

Let us notice some of the general conclusions of these 
investigators. The average scores for these four counties 
were 53 per cent, 54 per cent, 43 per cent, and 52 per cent 
respectively. Ohio County, the county having the highest 
average score, had these individual scores on the ten points 
considered: (1) site, 73 per cent; (2) sanitary condition of 
premises, 68 per cent; (3) house, 68 per cent; (4) cellar, 
31 per cent; (5) ventilation, 14 per cent; (6) water-supply, 
15 per cent; (7) sewage-disposal, 32 per cent; (8) barn- 
yard, 55 per cent; (9) disposal of manure, 22 per cent; and 
(10) health, 29 per cent. 

In their general survey of Ohio County, the surveyors 
say: "A review of the points considered shows that 86 per 
cent of the farmhouses surveyed in Ohio County are in- 



HEALTH CONDITIONS IN THE COUNTRY 19 

sanitary, that the death-rate is higher than the State rate 
by 0.2 in 1000; that the consumption rate is higher than 
the State by 25.5, and the typhoid rate is higher by 0.3 in 
the 100,000." 

These figures speak for themselves. They show most 
deplorable conditions in the country, and the probability 
is that these conditions are fairly typical of what might be 
expected in any ordinary rural district in the United States. 
In fact, it is safe to assume that these counties are far 
superior in hygiene and sanitation to many counties in the 
southern part of the United States. 

A health survey of White County in Illinois. This survey 
was carried out during 1915 by Dr. I. A. Foster, medical 
inspector of the Illinois State Board of Health, and Miss 
Harriet Fulmer, extension secretary of the Illinois Associa- 
tion for the Prevention of Tuberculosis. White County is 
in far southern Illinois, and is one of the leading farming 
districts of the section known as "Egypt." There is nothing 
extraordinary or peculiar about the county. The inhabi- 
tants are Americans living largely in rural communities, 
the largest town having less than 3000 population. "Of 
the 23,000 people in the county, about 10,000 live in the 
towns and villages, over 13,000 being scattered through 
a rather thickly settled, rich farming country, which has 
a fair proportion of wooded land and tilled farms, well 
drained and having the general natural resources for the 
promotion of health and the development of able-bodied 
men and women." 

The findings in this survey were quite similar to those 
revealed in the survey of the four Indiana counties to 
which we have referred. In a region having some wealth 
and a minimum of poverty, the natural assumption would 
be that the majority of the people would be well housed, 
well fed, and living under moderately hygienic conditions. 



20 HEALTH EDUCATION IN RURAL SCHOOLS 

The investigation shows that darkness and poor ventilation 
prevailed in the several hundred homes inspected, not be- 
cause of lack of windows, but because the windows were 
tightly closed and the shades were drawn to keep out the 
sunlight. "There is a positive dislike for fresh air among 
most of the people of this section." There was also much 
sleeping-room congestion, and, strange to say, this was 
more serious in the rural sections than in the towns. Filthy 
and insanitary privies prevailed. The tuberculosis problem 
was unusually grave. 

It is significant that many of the bad health conditions in 
this county were due not to poverty or to naturally unhealth- 
ful surroundings, but to ignorance of the simplest laws of 
hygiene and sanitation. The following comments taken 
from the report of the survey are of unusual interest: 

It was found during investigation that the dietary of fully 
seventy-five per cent of the people of White County was lacking 
in milk, meat, butter, eggs, home-made bread, and vegetables. 
While no one was found to be actually hungry, there were large 
numbers of undernourished and ansemic people. 

This seemed due in some instances to lack of intelligence; in 
some instances to lack of physical ability on the part of the head 
of the family to prepare proper dishes, and in other cases the fault 
lies with the customs of the people. Poverty and inability to secure 
food is a factor in only a small percentage of cases. 

The water-supply as a rule is only fair. In most instances 
as must be true where privy vaults and surface water-supply are 
employed together it is a real and serious source of danger. 
There are few wells. The water usually comes from cisterns which 
are not properly lined. In two of the larger towns the municipal 
water-supply comes from a river. Not over twenty-five per cent 
of the people in these towns take the precaution of boiling the 
water. Throughout the entire community there is doubtless 
general soil pollution. 

The sanitation of rural schools; a survey of the rural 
schools of Porter County, Indiana. The bad sanitation in 



HEALTH CONDITIONS IN THE COUNTRY 21 

the rural homes is reflected in their public schools. A 
number of painstaking investigations of the rural schools 
have now been undertaken. One of the best of these is the 
survey of the schools of Porter County, Indiana. This 
county is in the northwestern corner of the State and bor- 
ders on Lake Michigan. Its principal industry is farming. 
In this study seventy-five school-buildings were surveyed 
and medical tests were made of the pupils in seventy-six 
schools, including one parochial school, in the rural districts 
of the county. The survey was conducted by the United 
States Public Health Service. 

The investigation showed that the majority of the school- 
sites had a fair elevation, but that fifty-seven per cent of 
the buildings were more than twenty years old and there- 
fore not modern in construction. There was no fire-fighting 
apparatus in any school. Cloakrooms were provided in 
only thirty-eight per cent of the schools visited. The water 
used in seventy-five per cent of the schools was obtained 
from shallow driven wells. Protection from surface drain- 
age was far from satisfactory. Sanitary drinking fountains 
were found in seven schools, but were in use in only four. 
Facilities for washing the hands were limited. Common 
wash-basins were provided in seventy-five per cent of the 
schools, but were not in use in many. Adjustable desks 
were found in 9.15 per cent. The light was inferior in 
quantity and direction. The humidification of the class- 
room atmosphere was inadequate in all schools, the relative 
humidity being under forty per cent in the majority of 
cases. Among the total number of children reporting on 
what they had for breakfast only fifteen per cent used milk, 
while thirty-seven per cent used coffee. The physical de- 
fects were varied and numerous. Sixty per cent of the boys 
and fifty per cent of the girls had some degree of dental 
defectiveness; 18.3 per cent of the boys and 10.5 per cent 



22 HEALTH EDUCATION IN RURAL SCHOOLS 

of the girls never used a toothbrush; 57.8 per cent of the 
girls used it occasionally, and its daily use was noted in but 
13.9 per cent of the boys and 40.9 per cent of the girls. 

To find such conditions in a prosperous and generally 
progressive rural district is alarming. 

An investigation of the hygienic conditions in typical 
rural schoolhouses in nineteen States. Dresslar's more 
extensive study l gives a good idea of the conditions that 
may be assumed to exist throughout the country. State 
superintendents of nineteen different States were asked to 
select two counties in their respective States which they 
regarded as typical progressive counties. A questionnaire 
was then sent to all the rural teachers in these counties. 
In all there were 1296 returns. 

The returns show deplorable conditions. Sixty-three per 
cent of the buildings are old, and even the newer ones in 
the majority of cases have been built with little thought of 
hygiene. The lighting is usually bad and three fourths of 
the desks are non-adjustable. The jacketed stove is seldom 
encountered. Nearly two thirds of the schools depend for 
their water-supply on springs and wells outside of the 
school-grounds so that neither clean nor fresh water is 
available in most cases. The open bucket and common 
drinking-cup are still in use, and even when the individual 
drinking-cups are used, they are not infrequently allowed 
to become mixed. The doors and windows of the school- 
houses are seldom screened. Toilet facilities are generally 
a disgrace and a menace to the health of the community. 
Not more than one per cent of the toilets are sanitary. 
The school-grounds are, as a rule, too small for the chil- 
dren's play. To add to all these unfortunate circum- 
stances the people in rural communities are usually con- 

1 F. B. Dresslar. The Hygiene of the Rural School. N.E.A. Proceedings, 
1912. pp. 1103-10. 



HEALTH CONDITIONS IN THE COUNTRY 23 

servative and in little sympathy with progress in hygiene 
and sanitation. 

Minimum health requirements proposed for rural 
schools. A joint committee on health problems in education 
of the national council of the National Education Associa- 
tion and of the council on health and public instruction of 
the American Medical Association has recently prepared 
a pamphlet on Minimum Health Requirements for Rural 
Schools. These proposed standards should be of great 
assistance to school boards, superintendents, and teachers 
because they indicate clearly what conditions should take 
the place of the intolerable situations revealed by surveys 
and investigations. The minimum sanitary requirements 
for rural schools are as follows: 

1. Location and surroundings. The school should be located 
in as healthful a place as exists in the community. 

Noise and all other objectionable factors should be eliminated 
from the immediate environment of the rural school. 

Accessibility. Not more than two miles from the most distant 
home, if the children walk. Not more than six miles from the most 
distant home, if school wagons are provided. 

Drainage. School-grounds must be well drained and as dry as 
possible. If natural drainage is not adequate, artificial drainage 
should be provided. 

Soil. As every rural school-ground should have trees, shrubs, 
and a real garden or experimental farm, the soil of the school- 
grounds should be fertile and tillable. Rock and clay soil should 
always be avoided. If the soil is muddy when wet, a good layer 
of sand and fine gravel should be used to make the children's 
playground as useful as possible in all kinds of weather. 

Size of school-grounds. For the schoolhouse and playground, at 
least three acres are required. 1 

A playground is not a luxury but a necessity. A school without 

1 If the rural school plant includes the additional features (a teacher's 
home, a garden, and an experimental farm), which are already in some 
progressive States accepted and established as educational essentials, then 
the school-grounds should contain eight to ten acres. 



24 HEALTH EDUCATION IN RURAL SCHOOLS 

a playground is an educational deformity and presents a gross 
injustice to childhood. 

Arrangement of grounds. The school-grounds should have trees, 
plants, and shrubs grouped with artistic effect, but without inter- 




FIRST FLOOR PLAN 

PIG. 4 a. FLOOR PLAN OF THE DEMONSTRATION RURAL SCHOOL OP THE 
FIRST DISTRICT NORMAL SCHOOL AT KIRKSVILLE, MISSOURI. 

The basement plan would also show a gymnasium, water tank, tuba for laundry, etc. 
(Courtesy of the First District Normal School, Kirksville, Missouri.) 

fering with the children's playground or the lighting of the school- 
house. 

2. Schoolkouse. The schoolhouse should be made as nearly 
fireproof as possible. Doors should always open outward and the 
main door should have a covered entrance; a separate fuel-room 
should be provided; also separate cloakrooms for boys and for 
girls. 

A basement or cellar, if provided, should be well ventilated and 
absolutely dry. 



HEALTH CONDITIONS IN THE COUNTRY 25 

The one-teacher country school should contain, in addition to 
the classroom: 

(a) A small entrance hall, not less than six by eight feet. 

(b) A small retiring-room, not less than eight by ten feet, to 




r~ ~"ii - "~i 

481 X20 

[^ WTJJIUCMT I 



ATTIC PLAN 

FIG. 46. FLOOR PLAN OF THE DEMONSTRATION RURAL SCHOOL OF THE 
FIRST DISTRICT NORMAL SCHOOL AT KIRKSVILLE, MISSOURI. 

The basement plan would also show a gymnasium, water tank, tubs for laundry, etc. 
(Courtesy of the First District Normal School, Kirksville, Missouri.) 



be used as an emergency-room in case of illness or acci- 
dent, for a teacher's conference-room, for school library 
and for health inspection, a feature now being added to 
the work of the rural school. 

(c) A small room, not less than eight by ten feet, for a work- 
shop, for instruction in cooking and for the preparation 
of refreshments when the school is used, as it should be, 
for social purposes. 
Classroom should not be less than thirty feet long, twenty feet 



26 HEALTH EDUCATION IN RURAL SCHOOLS 

wide, and twelve feet high. This will provide space enough for 
a maximum of thirty pupils. 

3. Ventilation and heating. The schoolroom should always 
receive fresh ah- coming directly from out of doors in one of the 
following arrangements: 

(a) Through wide-open windows in mild weather. 
(6) Through window board ventilators under all other con- 
ditions, except when, with furnace or jacketed stove, 
special and adequate inlets and exits for air are provided. 
Heating. Unless furnace or some other basement system of 
heating is installed, at least a properly jacketed stove is required. 
(No un jacketed stove should be tolerated in any school.) 

The jacketed stove should have a direct fresh-air inlet about 
twelve inches square, opening through the wall of the schoolhouse 
into the jacket against the middle or hottest part of the stove. 

The exit for foul ah* should be through an opening at least sixteen 
inches square on the wall near the floor, on the same side of the 
room as the stove is located. 

A fireplace with flue adjoining the stove chimney makes a good 
exit for bad air. 1 

Temperature. Every school should have a thermometer, and 
the temperature in cold weather should be kept between 66 and 
68 Fahrenheit. 

4. Lighting. The schoolroom should receive an abundance of 
light, sufficient for darkest days, with all parts of the room ade- 
quately illuminated. 

The area of glass in windows should be from one fifth to one 
fourth of the floor area. 

The best arrangement, according to present ideas, is to have the 
light come only from the left side of the pupils and from the long 
wall of the classroom. Windows may be allowed on rear as well 
as on the left side, but the sills of windows in the rear of the room 
should be not less than seven feet above the floor. High windows 
not less than seven feet from the floor may be permitted on the 
right side if thoroughly shaded, as an aid to cross-ventilation, but 
not for lighting. 

There should be no trees or shrubbery near the schoolhouse 

1 The following arrangement for ventilating flue is required in one 
Western State: A circular sheet-steel smoke flue, passing up in center 
of ventilating shaft (foul-air exit), twenty inches square in the clear. 



HEALTH CONDITIONS IN THE COUNTRY 27 

which will interfere with the lighting and natural ventilation of 
the classroom. 

The school building should so face that the schoolroom will 
receive the direct sunlight at some time during the day. The main 
windows of the schoolroom should not face either directly north 
or south. East or west facing is desirable. 

Shades should be provided at tops and bottoms of windows with 
translucent shades at top, so that light may be properly controlled 
on bright days. 

Schoolroom colors. The best colors for the schoolroom in rela- 
tion to lighting are : 

Ceiling white or light cream. 

Walls light gray or light green. 

Blackboards black, but not glossy. 

6. Cleanliness. The schoolhouse and surroundings should be 
kept as clean as a good housekeeper keeps her home. 

(a) No dry sweeping or dry dusting should be allowed. 

(6) Floors and furniture should be cleaned with damp sweepers 

and oily cloths. 1 

(c) Scrubbing, sunning, and airing are better than any form 
of fumigation. 

6. Drinking-water. Drinking-water should be available for every 
pupil at any time of day which does not interfere with the school 
program. 

Every rural school should have a sanitary drin king-fountain 
located just inside or outside the schoolhouse entrance. 

Drinking-water should come from a safe source. Its purity 
should be certified by an examination by the State Board of Health 
or by some other equally reliable authority. 

A common drinking-cup is always dangerous and should never 
be tolerated. 

Individual drinking-cups are theoretically and in some condi- 
tions all right, but practical experience has proved that in schools, 
individual cups, to be used more than once, are unsatisfactory 
and unhygienic. Therefore, they are not to be advocated nor 
approved for any school. 

Sufficient pressure for running water for drinking-fountain or 
other uses in the rural school may always be provided from any 

1 Sweeping-compounds in moist-proof containers may be obtained in 
the market. 



28 HEALTH EDUCATION IN RURAL SCHOOLS 

source without excessive expense by a storage tank or by pressure 
tank with force pump. 

7. Water for washing. Children in all schools should have 
facilities for washing hands available at least: 
(a) Always after the use of the toilet. 
(6) Always before eating. 

(c) Frequently after playing outdoors, writing on black- 
board, or doing other forms of hand work connected 
with the school. 

Individual clean towels should always be used. 
Paper towels are the cheapest and most practicable. 




FIG. 5. HEALTH DEFECTS 

City children and country children compared. Percentage averages of all available sta- 
tistics. 

(Courtesy of the Committee on Health Problems, National Council of Education.) 



HEALTH CONDITIONS IN THE COUNTRY 29 

The common towel is as dangerous to health as the common 
drinking-cup. 

8. Furniture. School seats and desks should be hygienic in type 
and adjusted at least twice a year to the size and needs of growing 
children. Seats and desks should be individual separate 
adjustable clean. 

Books and other materials of instruction should not only be 
sanitary, but attractive enough to stimulate a wholesome response 
from the pupils. 

9. Toilets and privies. Toilets and privies should be sanitary 
in location, construction, and in maintenance. 

(a) If water-carriage system for sewage is available, separate 
toilets for boys and girls should be located in the school- 
house with separate entrances on different sides or corners 
of the school-building. 

(6) If there is no water-carriage system, separate privies 
should be located at least fifty feet in the different di- 
rections from the schoolhouse, with the entrances well 
screened. 

(c) The privy should be rainproof, well ventilated, and one 
of the following types: 

(1) Dry earth closet. 

(2) Septic tank container. 

(3) With a water-tight vault or box. 

All containers of excreta should be water-tight, thoroughly 
screened against insects, and easily cleaned at frequent intervals. 

No cesspool should be used unless it is water-tight and easily 
emptied and cleaned. 

All excreta should be either burned, buried, treated by subsoil 
drainage, reduced by septic tank treatment or properly distributed 
on tilled land as fertilizer. 

10. All schoolhouses and 'privies should be thoroughly and effectively 
screened against flies and mosquitoes. 

11. Schoolhouses and outhouses should be absolutely free from all 
defacing and obscene marks. 

12. Buildings should be kept in good repair and with whole windows. 

Belief of Dr. Wood that children in country schools are 
less healthy than those in city schools. From what has 
already been said about the lower death-rate in the city 



30 HEALTH EDUCATION IN RURAL SCHOOLS 

as compared to the country and from the deplorable sani- 
tation in the rural schools, one might anticipate the con- 
clusion that children in rural schools are less healthy and 
have more physical defects than children in city schools. 
Dr. Thomas D. Wood, 1 who has investigated the whole 
matter quite thoroughly, says that statistics justify this 
conclusion. 

The reasons for the physical inferiority of the country 
child as compared with the city child, according to Dr. 
Wood, are not difficult to determine. First of all the tide 
of human emigration toward the city during the last half- 
century has carried some of the best human stock from the 
country to the city. Artificial selection has been detri- 
mental to the country. A second reason for this inferiority 
is that the "science and art of human living, of conserving 
and improving human health, and general human welfare 
have advanced much more rapidly in the cities than in 
the country districts." In the city the problems of safety 
and comfort have been serious problems to city dwellers 
and have challenged their attention. The average farmer 
usually brings up everything on the farm more carefully 
and more successfully than his own children. The last 
reason for this astonishing inferiority of the country child, 
according to Dr. Wood, is the environment. " The farmer's 
home," he says, "is, as a rule, insanitary in many respects. 
It is often unventilated and the dwellers in the house are 
fed many hours a day with bad air. Country water and 
food are less wholesome than water and food in the city. 
The standards of living on the American farm, when tested 
by the accepted principles of sanitation and hygiene, are 
alarmingly defective." Dr. Wood's observations on the 
rural school buildings are couched in unmistakable lan- 

1 T. D. Wood. Health Problems in the American Public Schools. N.E.A. 
Proceedings, 1914, pp. 294-301. 



HEALTH CONDITIONS IN THE COUNTRY 31 

guage. "The rural school, from the standpoint of health 
and general fitness for its important use," he says, "is the 
worst type of building in the whole country, including not 
only all types of buildings used for human beings but also 
those used for live stock and all domestic animals. Rural 
schools are, on the average, less adequate for their use than 
prisons, asylums, almshouses, stables, dairy-barns, pigeon- 
chicken-houses, or dog-kennels are for their uses." It is 
quite improbable that anybody who is personally famil- 
iar with the rural schools of this country will differ from 
Dr. Wood's conclusions. 

Physical defects of country and city people as shown 
by the first draft of the war. At the close of the present war, 
when all the statistics relating to the drafts have been 
collected, classified, and studied, we shall know more about 
the comparative health of people who live in the country 
and city. The results of the first draft * show that the physi- 
cal disabilities of men from the country and city were prac- 
tically the same. Should these results, which are of espe- 
cial interest because they are evenly distributed over the 
United States, be confirmed by the later drafts, they will 
not necessarily show that the deplorable health conditions 
in rural homes and schools have been exaggerated; the 
figures will probably be interpreted to mean that people 
in the country have so profited by their work in the open 
air, and other natural advantages (pp. 11-13), that in spite of 
their many insanitary surroundings and lack of hygienic train- 
ing, they are equal to city people in matters of health. 

As the statistics stand, Dr. Wood's investigation, the 
most complete of its kind, shows that country children are 
more defective than city children. The results of the exam- 
ination of men for the first draft would tend to discredit 

1 Edward N. Clopper. The Draft as a Test of the Nation's Physical 
Stamina. Child Labor Bulletin, New York, February, 1918. 



32 HEALTH EDUCATION IN RURAL SCHOOLS 

this somewhat because they imply that the physical 
disabilities of men between the ages of twenty-one and 
thirty-one are the same in the country as in the city. All 
the available statistics show unmistakably that the old idea 
that people in the country are healthier than the people 
in the city is fallacious. But no matter how the statistics 
may be interpreted, the deplorable health conditions in 
rural communities and schools and practically a complete 
lack of training children in health matters will still remain 
to haunt us. 1 The country is far from living up to its pos- 
sibilities. With proper health education the country ought 
easily to surpass the city in healthfulness and produce a 
vastly larger number of happier and more capable citizens. 
The rights of the country child. About 12,000,000, or 
three fifths of the school-children in the United States, 
attend the rural schools. These children are entitled to 
the same privileges of beautiful, sanitary school-buildings 
as the children in the city. They have just as much right 
to be healthy and happy. It is a question in which not 
merely the country but the whole nation is involved, for 

1 H. A. Allan, agent for Rural Education, Maine State Board of Health, 
writing of the health conditions in the State of Maine (American Journal 
of School Hygiene, November, 1917) says: "Health conditions in the 
schools of Maine are probably not unlike those of other Eastern States. 
While no specific figures for the State are available there is little doubt 
that health conditions of children in the rural communities are less favor- 
able than those of children in the cities and large towns. The organi- 
zations and more definite plans for better physical conditions, as existing 
in some of the large communities for some time past, have accomplished 
far more than can be brought about by a dependence solely on the advan- 
tages of the natural environment. The tonic of the fresh, untainted air 
of the country could do much for the boy were it always available to 
him. But his schoolroom and his home often have no means of ventilation 
and the windows of his sleeping room may be seldom opened. In many 
communities no thought has been given to his physical welfare. The prob- 
lem, therefore, primarily is rural. The awakening of the rural communities 
and a campaign for better physical conditions in the school and in the 
home are the pressing demands." 



HEALTH CONDITIONS IN THE COUNTRY S3 

the welfare of the entire nation is dependent upon the 
efficiency of the farmers, and also upon the splendid leader- 
ship which has been contributed to the city by the country. 

Health work in city and rural schools compared. If 
the country is ever to realize her health resources she must 
begin a systematic and purposeful campaign to improve and 
conserve the health of her public school-children. In organ- 
ized health administration and supervision the country has 
done almost nothing while the city has taken the lead to 
advantage. The backwardness of the country in health 
work is shown by the accompanying table prepared by the 
joint committee of health problems in education of the 
National Educational Association and of the American 
Medical Association: 

The teaching of hygiene in the rural schools. The general 
backwardness of the rural districts in matters pertaining 
to health also extends to instruction and training in hy- 
giene in the rural schools. The teaching of hygiene in 
city schools has been far from praiseworthy, but the prob- 
ability is that it is far more practical than it is in the rural 
schools. Dr. Cubberley in Rural Life and Education writes 
thus of the teaching of hygiene in the country schools: 

We have been teaching physiology for nearly half a century in 
our schools, yet of how little practical use it has been to us. ... 
We have learned the names and the number of our bones, the pairs 
of muscles and nerves, and the anatomical construction of our 
different organs, but of practical hygiene we have learned but little. 
Our teachers are not taught such practical hygiene and know but 
little about it; the people themselves, as a mass, know but very 
little as to sanitary conditions, and only recently have we begun 
to direct our attention to the proper form of physiology instruction, 
but most of this new awakening is due to the state boards of health 
and to the newspapers instead of the school. 1 

1 For the status of hygiene in our city schools see Andress, The Teaching 
of Hygiene in the Grades (Houghton Mifflin Company, 1918), chap. n. 



34 HEALTH EDUCATION IN RURAL SCHOOLS 



HEALTH WORK IN CITY AND RUBAL SCHOOLS OF UNITED STATES 



Activity 



For city children 



For country children 



Medical inspection laws 
in 23 States. 

Mandatory laws. 
Permissive laws. 



Medical inspection prac- 
ticed. 

Dental inspection by 

dentists. 



Dental clinics. 



Clinics for eye, nose, 
throat, and other de- 
fects. 

Nurses. 
Open-air classes. 

Athletics and recreation 
organized with ap- 
propriate facilities 
and equipment. 

Warm lunches in 
schools. 



Mandatory for cities 
only, in 12 States. 

Apply to all cities. 

Enforced in most 
cities. 

In over 400 cities. 
In 69 cities. 



In 50 cities. 
In cities only. 

750 in 135 cities. 
In cities only. 

Practically all cities 
and large towns. 



In over 90 cities in 21 
States. 



Mandatory for rural 
schools in 7 States. 

In 7 States. 

In 6 of the 13 States 
having such laws. 

In 13 States, in parts 
of 130 counties. 

Permitted in 2 States, 
but not yet pro- 
vided. 

In one rural county 
(St. John's County, 
Florida). 

None. 



12 in 20 rural districts. 



Little provision in 
rural schools. 



In a few scattered 
schools in 9 States. 



Local Boards of Health in the country passive. In all 
rural districts there are local boards of health. Frequently 
they are elected by the people, but it is seldom, except in the 
case of some epidemic, that the average citizen in a rural 
community could even give you the name of the health offi- 



HEALTH CONDITIONS IN THE COUNTRY 35 

cers, much less define their duties. Often these health offi- 
cers are not even physicians. They may be without any 
special training and poorly paid. Then, too, the position is 
often regarded as a political stepping-stone. Even physi- 
cians are likely to be inefficient as health officers because the 
pay is so inadequate or because they may injure their own 
practice by enforcing the health regulations. The country 
is greatly in need of trained health officers, well paid and 
devoting their entire time to their work. 

The reports of the State boards of health lament time and 
again the passivity and general inefficiency of the local 
boards of health. The following quotation from the report 
of the State Board of Health of Illinois is typical: 

Since White County is under township organization, each town- 
ship has a board of health, created by State law and made up of 
the supervisor, assessor, and town clerk. As a matter of fact, this 
board in White County, as in many other rural communities, may 
be regarded as a legal fiction. The country districts of the county 
really have no public health supervision, the only time that the 
board awakens to activity being upon the appearance of smallpox. 
Disinfection of premises after typhoid fever is unknown, and this 
is likewise true after cases of tuberculosis. General insanitary 
conditions of even the glaring sort are generally ignored. 

Better laws on sanitation needed. If the country is to 
progress in hygiene and sanitation it needs better laws 
providing for medical inspection of school-children, school 
nurses, playgrounds, pure water-supply, safe disposal of 
sewage, etc. ; but laws in themselves are meaningless unless 
supported by public opinion. 

Health education more important than health legislation. 
Good laws are helpful if they are understood and enforced, 
but any law which excites the antagonism of a considera- 
ble number of citizens will not be effective. To get better 
sanitary legislation the people must be informed on matters 
pertaining to personal and public health; they must also 



S6 HEALTH EDUCATION IN RURAL SCHOOLS 

have a desire to better conditions. When this time arrives 
we may expect that the best laws will be put on the statute 
books, and that they will be enforced. 

But health education is even more important than any 
amount of sanitary legislation; for whether people are to 
be healthy or not depends not so much on the passage of 
certain laws as upon the practice of the laws of personal 
hygiene matters relatively independent of legislation. 
I refer to temperate eating, breathing fresh air, exercise, 
sleep, bathing, correct posture, cheerfulness, etc. Putting 
into practice these important suggestions necessitates the 
proper training of our school-children in health habits. For 
this we turn to the rural school expectantly. 

The teacher's opportunity and duty. In this coming cam- 
paign of health education for which the rural districts have 
a crying need, boards of health, physicians, school officers, 
school superintendents, granges, and clubs may render valu- 
able aid, but the fundamental success of this movement 
depends on the one in the firing-line the rural school- 
teacher. It will be desirable for her to cooperate with all 
the social forces in the community, and she must take the 
lead. If the next generation in the country is to be healthier 
than the present, it will be largely because of the instruction 
and training of the children in health matters in the rural 
schools. As we have already observed, the natural oppor- 
tunities for health in the country are superior to those in 
the city, but the people in the country are to a very large 
extent unconscious of these possibilities. The teacher must 
point these out, and see that some control is gained over 
them. This is no easy matter, for the ordinary teacher in 
the rural schools is confronted by insanitary schoolhouses 
and school-grounds, inferior textbooks, and an ultra-con- 
servative public attitude. The teacher needs to have the 
conviction that health is far more important than instruc- 



HEALTH CONDITIONS IN THE COUNTRY 37 

tion in any other subject and that the country is at least 
as much in need of it as the city. She needs to approach 
her problems with some of the spirit of the missionary 
enthusiasm, training, intelligence, tact, and courage to help 
blaze the trail. 

CLASS EXERCISES 

1. Make a survey of not less than a dozen farmhouses, using the method 
of scoring described on pp. 16-18. If an actual survey is imprac- 
ticable, let every student report on some farmhouses with which 
he or she is well acquainted. What are the most pressing sanitary 
needs according to this survey? 

2. Investigate the health conditions in as many rural schools as possible 
according to the minimum health requirements proposed for rural 
schools on pp. 25-29. What are the chief insanitary conditions found? 

3. What are the duties of the local boards of health in your State or 
community? 

4. What State laws refer to sanitation in the country? 

5. Does the last report of your State Board of Health say anything 
about the health conditions in the country? 

6. Are there any "lung" houses in your neighborhood? Trace the 
history of each of them. 



CHAPTER in 

GETTING CHILDREN TO FORM HEALTH HABITS 

The school can do little in the way of giving instruction, but it 
will accomplish a great deal if it develops an hygienic attitude 
and fosters the acquisition of certain habits of health that will 
remain permanent after the children leave school. Instruction 
is good and it is easy; training is better, but it is difficult. The 
past decade has been a period of talk about school hygiene; the 
next decade should be one of training in school hygiene. 

(Dr. W. H. Burnham.) 

HYGIENE in our public schools must be regarded as an 
intensely practical subject having as its ultimate goal action 
of fundamental importance to health. This means, as we 
have pointed out, getting children to form habits. In the 
past we have relied too much on our faith that knowledge 
and belief in the right kind of action would result in appro- 
priate behavior. There are numerous examples in everyday 
life which prove that information when presented so as to 
appeal to dominant interests does influence conduct quite 
effectively. Notice, for example, the rapidity with which 
people make a run on the bank when it is whispered that 
the bank may not be able to meet its obligations. Boys 
search persistently for the hole in the river where somebody 
is known to have had unusual luck in catching fish. The 
melon patch in the middle of the corn field is frequently 
doomed as soon as information "leaks" as to its where- 
abouts. The information on hygiene presented to boys and 
girls has seldom appealed to their vital interests. If we ex- 
pect to inculcate health habits, we must plan systematically 
to get them established and also to test in some degree 
the results attained. How can we accomplish these ends? 

Habits hard to form. One of the most dangerous bits of 



HEALTH HABITS 89 

pedagogical philosophy of the young teacher, and too often 
of the older teacher, is the belief that if you talk to children 
often enough, long enough, and with sufficient vigor about 
a habit, it will certainly be established. The opposite of 
this is more likely to be true; for an excess of talk often 
creates an attitude of indifference or rebellious opposition. 
This commonly accepted fallacy as to the efficacy of talk 
in teaching is largely due to the fact that most adults 
formed their characteristic habits so long ago that the 
process has been entirely forgotten. The habits gained more 
recently usually have such a long and varied history that 
the details cannot be remembered. In taking up the sub- 
ject of habit in one of my classes in psychology recently, 
I asked each member of a class of eighty-seven to form a 
habit and keep a careful record of her successes and failures 
in maintaining the habit and what helped and retarded 
the formation of the habit. The conditions were most 
favorable for successful learning. Each member of the 
class took some habit which she really wished to form out- 
side of the requirements of the course. She was required to 
practice the habit for a month or six weeks, and finally to 
submit her findings hi a paper, which was to be marked. 
Suggestions were given every few days by the instructor 
so that there might be a tendency to think about the habit. 
Nearly every habit was a health habit, as taking daily 
exercise in the open air, proper mastication of the food, 
correct posture, and cleaning the teeth. 

How a habit was formed. It is often assumed that one's 
success in learning is continuous. The adventures re- 
corded in the diaries of my pupils show that the learning 
curve goes up and down, and that for some time the habit 
which is in the process of formation is in grave danger of 
being destroyed. The following extracts from a typical 
diary show the difficulties of forming a habit: 



40 HEALTH EDUCATION IN RURAL SCHOOLS 

On November 20, 1916, 1 decided to form the habit of brushing 
my teeth five times per day. I selected this habit because of the 
serious condition of my teeth. I decided to carry on the operation 
as follows: 

1. Before breakfast. 

2. After breakfast. 

3. After lunch. 

4. After dinner. 

5. Before going to bed. 
I began my practice November 21, 1916. 

Nov. 21. I carried out my practice very successfully, not having 
one error. This was probably due to the fact that the habit was 
fresh in memory. 

Nov. 22. I had two errors due to forgetfulness. 

Nov. 23. There were four errors. Practice was omitted every 
time except in the morning. It seemed as if I was slowly climbing 
the ladder of errors instead of successes. 

Nov. 24. I determined on this day to omit no practice, but con- 
trary to my determination I discovered at the close of the day I had 
made one error. This was due to the fact that I had attended a 
theater party and was very tired when I returned. 

Nov. 25. To my regret, on Nov. 25 I omitted the practice en- 
tirely. I arose at a late hour in the morning, and in my hurry I for- 
got the habit, but why I neglected it the rest of the day I am unable 
to explain. 

Nov. 26. I found it was very hard to return again to the habit, 
and it was at this time I realized the value of the caution, "Allow 
no exceptions to occur." I struggled through the day with four 
errors. 

Nov. 27. This day I gradually climbed the ladder to success. 
There was only one error. 

Nov. 28. This was certainly a banner day for me no errors. 

Nov. 29. As good as my record for the previous day, my record 
to-day was bad, for I neglected all practice. 

Nov. 30. It seemed as if the Thanksgiving spirit had banished 
all idea of practice, for I had five more errors to add to my list. 

Dec. 1. I returned from vacation with a renewed determination 
to practice faithfully; nevertheless I had three more errors at the 
close of the day. 

Dec. 2. Two errors after lunch and dinner. 

Dec. 3. I was ill on this day and practiced the habit only once. 



HEALTH HABITS 



Dec. 4. Two errors. 

Dec. 5. Only one error, but it seemed as if I could never again 
reach the point of zero. 

Dec. 6. My desire was gratified. No errors. 

Dec. 7, 8, 9, 10, 11, 12, 13, 14. On these days I practiced five 
times per day. I presume the habit is formed. It took three and a 
half weeks. 



V 



8 3 * S 3 



\ FIG. 6. LEARNING CURVE SHOWING DIFFICULTIES IN FORMING THE 
HABIT OF CLEANING THE TEETH 

Note the irregularity of the curve. 

If any of my readers think that the obstacles in the way 
of forming this habit 1 were unusual, I invite them to try 
the experiment of forming a habit and writing day by day 
the story of their achievements. Such an experiment is 
highly desirable for a teacher, because it enables her to get 
the child's point of view with greater ease. 

Testing habits. After a lapse of five months I was curious 
to find out whether the habits formed had survived. I 
asked every member of my class to answer these questions : 

1. Is your habit functioning in whole or in part as it 
did five months ago or has it ceased entirely? 

1 For a more complete discussion of habit than is found in this book, 
the reader should consult some good standard work on psychology, such 
as James, Principles of Psychology ; James, Talks to Teachers ; Rowe, Habit- 
Formation ; and Pyle, Educational Psychology. 



42 HEALTH EDUCATION IN RURAL SCHOOLS 

2. If there has been a weakening of the habit can you 
give any explanations? 

Before answering these questions the pupils were told 
that their answers would have no effect on their class stand- 
ing in psychology. Although the opinions of the class as to 
the condition of their habits should not be considered as 
scientifically accurate, they are probably not far out of 
the way. The results (see Fig. 7, below) show that fifty- 



ABODE 




/co 



FIG. 7. GRAPH SHOWING PERCENTAGE OF SUCCESSES, PARTIAL SUCCESSES, 
AMD FAILURES IN AN ATTEMPT TO FORM HABITS WITH A MONTH OB 
MORE OF PRACTICE, ACCORDING TO AN INVESTIGATION MADE FIVE MONTHS 
AFTER THE HABITS HAD BEEN PRACTICED 

(From Andress's "The Study of Habit in a Course in Psychology, with Special Reference to 
Health Habits," with the permission of the American Journal of School Hygiene. ) 



HEALTH HABITS 43 

seven per cent of the pupils were entirely successful, 
twenty-four per cent were only partially successful, nine- 
teen per cent failed utterly. It will be noted that one pupil 
out of every five failed to form the habit and one out of 
every four had formed the habit only partially. It may be 
said that the measure of success was marked. This is true, 
but when one considers the favorable conditions under which 
the habits were practiced originally, it is apparent that it 
is absurd to think that merely talking to human beings 
about forming habits will ordinarily lead to their formation. 
Although this was a study of habit-formation in a class of 
girls about eighteen years of age, I am convinced that the 
difficulties in getting school-children to form habits are 
just as marked. 

We will now inquire how habits are formed and why they 
sometimes lapse. 

The need of a motive. The desire to form a habit is of 
fundamental importance. Unless there is a will to learn 
there is slight probability that learning of any permanence 
will take place. To think of doing a particular thing always 
under given conditions is ordinarily a nuisance to a child 
unless he realizes some need for that specific action. If a 
child finds that he can get something which is of value to 
him, he will exercise effort to act properly. This value or 
goal is often referred to as a motive. If the teacher can 
present a motive to children which appeals to some vital 
interest, she may expect to find the habit started. 

Health inadequate as a motive. Since hygiene is de- 
signed to teach children how to be healthy, it is usually 
assumed by teachers that health is the most powerful 
motive. But health is an abstract term which means little 
to a child. To tell a child that unless he gets plenty of 
fresh air and exercise he will not be strong and well has 
little power to excite him to act. The distant future is 



44 HEALTH EDUCATION IN RURAL SCHOOLS 

indistinct, colorless, and dull in its interest to boys and 
girls. The world of the immediate future alone is attrac- 
tive. 

Dr. Thomas D. Wood, who made an extensive investiga- 
tion of children's attitudes toward health problems by 
getting children to answer certain questions says by way 
of summary: 

In no answer is there any suggestion that the child is interested 
in health in the abstract or as a future beneficial state. His sole 
health concern exists in application and in relation to the immediate 
present. Interest in growing well and strong is nowhere indicated 
save as this state gives increased power and capacity for present 
enjoyment. 

There seems to be little possibility that health as a motive 
will be successful. 

Motives that will work. To get desired action the teacher 
must then appeal to other interests. Children, for example, 
usually like to be well thought of by their teacher. With 
such a stimulus children will frequently make an effort to 
keep their hands clean or correct a slouching posture. All 
children have a natural interest in competition. One teacher 
known to the writer was able to get children to keep their 
hands, nails, and teeth clean by dividing the school into 
two groups. One group was named "Harvard" and the 
other, "Yale." Every child was naturally interested to 
find out which side would win. Honors are sometimes given 
for distinctive work in certain subjects. This practice is 
not so common in rural as in city schools, but wherever 
this method exists honors should be given those pupils who 
have practiced hygiene with special distinction. 

Mark pupils for the practice of hygiene. It is customary 
in many schools to give pupils marks in the different school 
subjects. Children have usually been given marks in physi- 
ology as in the other branches; but such marks have always 



HEALTH HABITS 



45 



been given for ability to master mere information in the 
textbook. Although the marking system has many abuses, 
probably everybody is willing to admit that marks of some 
kind are necessary for school administration, and that they 
are in most cases motives to children. As long as teachers 
mark children on the amount and quality of information 
which they have gained but fail to consider habits, we may 
expect children to think of information and not habits as 
being most important. To make parents and pupils feel 
the importance of forming hygienic habits, it would be 
desirable to give pupils a separate mark for progress in 
habit-formation. In the city schools of Newark, New 
Jersey, pupils are marked for their habits of posture just 
as carefully and regularly as they are marked in arithmetic 
or reading. 

Practice of habits without exceptions. The teacher who 
puts her trust in good motives alone is doomed to be dis- 
appointed; for even the best of motives does not always lead 
immediately to action. Often action may be begun, but 
not continued long enough to lead to the formation of a 
habit. Psychologists tell us that every act performed makes 
an impression upon the nervous system, that pathways are 
opened up so that we tend to repeat a given act. As the 
repetitions increase, the pathway becomes broader and 
deeper so that the nervous energy flows along with less 
resistance. The act which was at first quite conscious be- 
comes unconscious and is performed by us without effort. 
It is necessary when we first begin to form a habit, like 
that of cleaning the teeth, to think with some mental strain 
every time we clean our teeth, but if we practice long enough, 1 

1 Many of the failures reported in the writer's investigation on pp. 
42-43, were thought by the pupils to be due to partial formation of 
the habits. Complete automatization did not result and complete failure 
naturally resulted. 



46 HEALTH EDUCATION IN RURAL SCHOOLS 

we shall find ourselves cleaning our teeth at the appointed 
times almost unconsciously. This unconscious practice of 
habits should be the goal of all teaching of hygiene. Every- 
body would be in a morbid state of mind if he found it 
necessary to think of his health more or less continuously 
through every day. It would interfere also with other du- 
ties. The child who is well trained in hygiene takes care of 
his health without giving it much attention. This goal will 
finally be reached by practice what Dr. Thorndike calls 
the application of the law of use. When the teacher talks 
to children about the desirability of cleaning the teeth, she 
should follow her pupils up to see that they actually prac- 
tice the habit until it is automatic. 

But practice interrupted by frequent exceptions will 
never be successful. If you decide to clean your teeth every 
night before retiring, the goal may be approached with the 
greatest speed if no period of practice is omitted. Every 
time one forgets or allows himself to disregard the pro- 
posed habit, the greater the difficulty in finally forming 
the habit. It is like trying to wind up a ball of twine. Every 
time you let the ball fall to the floor and unwind, you find 
that it is necessary to do more work to get back to the point 
where you left off. If you drop the ball often enough, your 
yarn will never be wound. Exceptions in habit-forming 
weaken the pathways of association and prevent the acquisi- 
tion of the habit. A number of illustrations of this have been 
furnished by my pupils. One girl who was trying to get up 
every morning at a certain time reported that her learning 
was progressing satisfactorily until the spring vacation 
when she overslept every morning and forgot all about her 
habit. After school began, under the prick of conscience 
she made half-hearted attempts from time to time to re- 
sume her previous rising schedule, but eventually every 
vestige of the half -formed habit disappeared. 



HEALTH HABITS 47 

It is dangerous for the teacher to relax her supervision 
over the practice of the habit until it is well established. 

Associate pleasure with the practice of desirable habits. 
Mere practice of a habit alone will not insure success. The 
writer has always been very fond of fried oysters, and never 
refused them at the table. One day he ate some fried oys- 
ters that had been highly salted. The experience produced 
such an unpleasant effect that he has not cared for fried 
oysters since. Unpleasantness may not only break up a 
habit of long standing, but it may prevent the growth of a 
habit in its early stages. Some unfortunate experience con- 
nected with swimming may hinder, if not entirely prevent, 
one from learning how to swim. Many experiments per- 
formed on animals and children prove what Dr. Thorndike 
calls the law of effect, namely, that pleasure associated with 
an activity tends to stamp it into the nervous system and 
make it permanent, but if the effect is unpleasant the 
activity will have a tendency not to be repeated. 

The application of this principle to the teaching of hy- 
giene is obvious. The teacher must try to make the prac- 
tice of hygienic habits pleasurable. One of the best ways 
to do this is to connect the habit with some vital interest *, 
of the children. A boy may make no attempt to correct 
a slouching posture if he is told about the ill-effects upon 
his health; but if he takes pride in his personal appearance, 
and if his attention is called to his posture, he may take 
a real interest in sitting and standing correctly. The im- 
provement is likely to be especially marked if the teacher 
notes every improvement and comments upon it favorably. 
As a habit becomes more firmly established, it tends to 
become pleasurable, even if at the beginning the practice 
was wearisome, and any tendency to omit practice is 
accompanied by discomfort. One pupil reports that when 
she goes to bed without cleaning her teeth, and she remem- 



48 HEALTH EDUCATION IN RURAL SCHOOLS 

bers it, she feels so uncomfortable that she cannot go to 
sleep until she gets up and cleans her teeth. 

The good teacher of hygiene is conspicuous through the 
insight and tact with which she is able to make the practice 
of hygienic habits pleasurable. To do this necessitates a 
careful study of individual pupils to find out their dom- 
inant interests. 

Dramatization as a method of teaching. No matter how 
clearly and definitely instructions may be given in a text- 
book or how well presented by a teacher, some children will 
misunderstand, and many of them will find the suggestions 
exceedingly uninteresting. One excellent method of infusing 
life into a lesson in hygiene and initiating habits properly 
is to dramatize hygienic activities. 

Let us suppose that children are studying about the care 
of the eye. Several members of the class may represent 
a family gathered around a table reading books and papers. 
Almost anything may be taken for the lamp. The children 
with the suggestions of the teacher may demonstrate how 
they would sit with reference to the light, how far and at 
what angle the books or papers should be held from the eyes, 
etc. The teaching of action in emergencies, too, offers an 
excellent chance for dramatization. Children may play 
that an accident occurs; they may go through all the prep- 
arations necessary for the sterilization of a wound, apply- 
ing bandages, carrying the patient, if necessary, and doing 
everything needed for his comfort. 

Education by dramatization does not stop with the mere 
acquisition of information. Through action it makes cer- 
tain, not only that information is gained, but that it is 
correctly interpreted. Valuable habits are begun and are 
fused with one of the greatest interests of childhood 
physical activity. This is a splendid start. It remains for 
the teacher to see that these habits initiated by dramatiza- 



HEALTH HABITS 49 

tion are continued in every-day practice in the school, and 
to some extent in the home. 

Opportunity for practicing habits at school. The teacher 
must not only instruct children as to desirable habits and 
present motives of vital interest, but she must also follow 
up the children to see that these habits are actually estab- 
lished. The teacher will find in school plenty of opportunity 
to get children to practice hygienic habits. For example, 
children may have toothbrush drills as a part of the regular 
work in hygiene and the mouths of the children may be 
inspected every few days. Not only the teeth, but the 
hands and nails, may also be inspected. The necessary 
number of minutes should be assigned on the daily program 
for this purpose. This may be done very rapidly if properly 
systematized. The teacher may call on the different rows 
in turn to hold up their hands. She may then pass along 
rapidly, giving a word of approval or disapproval as may 
be warranted. Since clean hands are so necessary as a 
means of preventing disease, such an inspection ought to 
be made every day until unclean hands are quite exceptional. 
To insure clean hands, as in the case of all habits, means 
should be taken to make the practice of the habit easy. 
In many rural schools there are very poor facilities for 
washing and wiping the hands. While many school boards 
are doubtless remiss in the performance of their duty, it is 
probably in most cases as much the fault of the teacher 
as the school officials. It will be a simple matter usually 
to convince school officers that a wash-dish and clean 
towels should be provided so that the children may keep 
clean. 

Many of the children in rural communities are woefully 
deficient in health standards, and while children may read 
about what ought to be done in the way of sanitation and 
have valuable information presented by the teacher, as 



50 HEALTH EDUCATION IN RURAL SCHOOLS 

we have noted before, there may be no practical results. 
Fortunately in every rural school we have a community 
with the usual community health problems, such as sewage, 
water-supply, food, lighting, heating, protection from flies 
and mosquitoes, etc. The teacher has a splendid opportu- 
nity, with the cooperation of her pupils, to help solve these 
problems in the school, and so not only train the pupils in 
hygiene, but also help to give the community in the neigh- 
borhood of the rural school advanced health standards. 
The elaboration of this subject is reserved for other chapters 
in this volume. 

Habits formed at school may not function outside of the 
school. It is usually assumed that habits acquired in school 
will be carried over to the life of the pupils outside of school. 
This is not necessarily so, and there are serious doubts as to 
what extent this may be true. Psychology teaches us that 
habit usually means a definite response to a definite stimu- 
lus or situation. Ordinary observation shows that some 
habits are merely school habits and not home habits or life 
habits in a larger sense. Children may keep their hands 
scrupulously clean in school, but be careless about them at 
home. There are even habits that function only during 
a particular class period. For example, a child may write 
well in his copy-book, or during the regular writing period, 
but present almost an entirely different kind of writing at 
other times in the school or at home. Different situations 
lead to different responses. Because one keeps his hands 
clean does not necessarily mean that he carries clean hand- 
kerchiefs or wears clean underclothing. Instead of having 
a habit of keeping the hands clean, we have habits of keep- 
ing the hands clean; instead of the habit of cleanliness, we 
have habits of cleanliness. This does not mean that learning 
to keep one's hands clean at school will never lead to clean 
hands at home. There is a possibility of a transfer in this 



HEALTH HABITS 51 

training 1 if the teacher can make pupils conscious of the 
necessity of doing this at home as well as at school. Here 
again, however, the teacher will be relying on faith. If 
possible, she should find some way of getting the child 
actually to practice hygienic habits at home. A serious 
difficulty naturally presents itself at this point because the 
teacher cannot directly supervise activities in the home. 

Keeping a health record. One of the chief foes of habit- 
forming is forgetfulness. Anything which helps to remind 
the learner of the habit to be formed is valuable. Many of 
my own pupils tell me that if a habit is not completely 
established so that it functions automatically, discontinu- 
ing the daily record often leads to failure. In some of our 
best city schools children are required to keep a daily health 
record. This enables the teacher to correlate actual doing 
with her regular instruction in hygiene. It makes possible 
the inculcating of certain habits at home which are being 
practiced at school, and also other habits, as getting up and 
going to bed at particular times, activities which cannot 
be supervised in the school. 

The desirability of keeping a daily record to get mastery 
over a habit was recognized long ago by Benjamin Franklin, 
who recorded each day his success or failure in the practice 
of such moral virtues as humility, chastity, tranquillity, 
justice, etc. He hoped some day to gaze upon a clean sheet 
a symbol of a clean life. Franklin's method of moral 
self -training may with profit be carried over into hygiene. 

Mr. Edward F. Brown, superintendent of the Bureau of 

1 The question of the transfer of training is one of the most perplexing 
problems of recent-day educational psychology. Much of the difference 
of opinion is a difference of word phrasing. All psychologists practically 
agree that there is a limited amount of transfer. For a fuller discussion of 
the problem the reader should consult some good standard work in psy- 
chology, such as Strayer and Norsworthy, How to Teach (Macmillan) ; 
Freeman, How Children Learn (Houghton Mifflin Company). 



52 HEALTH EDUCATION IN RURAL SCHOOLS 

Welfare of School-Children, New York City, proposes a 
health record for children ten years of age which is equally 
applicable to rural school-children of the same age. 1 It 
comprehends hour of rising, toilet arrangements, bathing, 
mouth hygiene, hygiene of the hair, dress, breakfast, walk- 
ing, lunch, play, supper, and sleep. This is a copy of the 
record: 

HEALTH HABITS FOR 4A CLASS 

Yes No 

1. Rise at seven o'clock 

2. Toilet 

3. Bathe daily, if possible. Otherwise every other day 

4. Brush teeth and gums. Wash mouth 

5. Exercise for five minutes 

C. Clean, comb, and brush hair 

7. Dress lightly in summer; warm in winter 

8. Eat breakfast. A good breakfast consists of cereal 
(eggs if possible), milk, butter, and bread. (State 

what you had.) 

9. If weather and distance permit, walk to school 

10. Eat lunch. Don't eat if overheated or excited. All 
meals should be eaten slowly and food chewed well. 
A good lunch consists of hot soup or broth, meat, 
vegetable, if possible, and bread 

11. After school play outdoors, if possible, for two hours 

12. Eat light supper 

13. Before retiring brush teeth and gums well 

14. Sleep for ten hours 

15. Keep windows of sleeping-room open all night 

I declare that 
I observed of the rules of health. 

Mr. Brown recommends that a little time be taken each 
morning to distribute a blank form to each pupil who would 
then fill in the record of his activities on the previous day. 
The standard of attainment might be arrived at in this way : 

1 Edward F. Brown, "Suggesting Another Method of Teaching Per- 
sonal Hygiene," School and Society, no. 82, pp. 148-51 (July 22, 1916). 



HEALTH HABITS 



53 



Observing 15 rules is Excellent. 

Observing 13 rules is Good. 

Observing 11 rules is Fair. 

Observing less than 11 health rules is in the danger zone. 

If your record is near or below the danger line, it is time to beware. 

Children may be led to characterize their rating as fol- 
lows: 

Excellent. I will be healthy. 

Good. I am on the road to health. 

Fair. I am not doing all I can to be healthy. 

Poor. I am hi danger of being unclean and unhealthy. 

Bad. I am not clean I cannot be healthy. 

Weekly averages might be made and the records posted 
to stimulate a friendly rivalry to get into the "I will be 
healthy group." It is probably true, as Mr. Brown says, 
that there will be some falsification on the part of the 
children, but "there will always be a substantial majority 
of truthful children those in whom the lesson will be 
engrafted in a fixed fashion." Even those who have a tend- 
ency to falsify will be led to practice these habits to some 
extent because they are so frequently brought to their at- 
tention. 

In the upper grades interest may be created by represent- 
ing the ratings in 
simple graphs. Mr. 
Brown suggests 
that a good record 
might look like that 
shown in Fig. 8. 

One great advan- 
tage of making 
graphs is that it 
would stimulate self -competition. It would give the teacher 
a good idea of the child's deficiencies, so that she might find 



Kan. fees. 



^excellent 
















Ooodj 


~*x 
^ 


o 


**"" \ 


S 


s^^. 


^^ 


^ 








\J 


\ 




^ f* 


' 










^ 


'^' 


f^ 










Danger 


zone 









FIG. 8. WEEKLY HEALTH RECORD OF 
JANE JONES 

Date January 6-13, 1915 



54 HEALTH EDUCATION IN RURAL SCHOOLS 

some way of presenting some motive to get better results. 
If there were medical inspectors and school nurses, the 
records would be invaluable. 

The plan presented by Mr. Brown is meant, of course, to 
be only suggestive. The teacher in the rural schools would 
naturally modify the record to suit conditions. A child 
fifteen years of age, for example, would need less sleep 
than a child of six. There might also be reasons peculiar 
to the school or family which would make it undesirable 
to incorporate all the suggestions given. In initiating the 
scheme it might be desirable to keep a record of only some 
half-dozen habits. The writer knows from personal experi- 
ence that the record is one of the most effective ways of 
getting habits firmly established. 

In making the records a hectograph l will be useful, or 

1 Every teacher finds it necessary to make copies of health records, 
programs or school entertainments, etc. For such purposes a hectograph 
is almost indispensable. Lincoln, in Everyday Pedagogy (Ginn & Co.), 
gives a number of recipes. The following is composed of ingredients readily 
available: "Glycerin, 20 ounces; white glue, 5 ounces; water, 12 ounces. 
Soak the glue in the water overnight, bring to a boil; add glycerin, boil 
six or eight minutes." 

For hectographing a pan about 11 x9| inches is desirable. When the 
hectograph has cooled, it should be poured into the pan slowly to avoid 
bubbles. Hectograph ink may be secured from almost any newsdealer. 

"To hectograph," says Lincoln, "one should write the copy on well- 
sized paper with a clean steel pen. The hectograph should then be mois- 
tened slightly, and the copy placed face downward upon it for perhaps a 
minute, till a good impression is left. Then the sheets of paper should 
be applied, rubbed down firmly, and removed as rapidly as possible. 
When as many copies as are required have been taken, the hectograph 
should be washed with a sponge or soft cloth and warm water. The hotter 
the water the more quickly the cleaning is done, but the more rapidly the 
hectograph wears away. It should be dried wholly, either by wiping or 
draining, before putting on the cover, or it will mould. 

"If in the hectographing the copy blurs, the hectograph was too moist; 
if the paper sticks, the sponge may be used to moisten it more without 
fear of removing the impression, provided the water be cold; it may be 
moistened if the papers fur and so cover the copy with a little coating 



HEALTH HABITS 55 

if this does not seem to be feasible, the problem might be 
met by getting the pupils to copy the record in their note- 
books with spaces properly ruled and labeled for the record 
of each day in the week. In this way the record of a pupil 
for an entire term might be kept together. At the end of a 
term, or at the end of the year, a graph might be made to 
show the results. 

Habits to be formed and avoided. It may be helpful to 
teachers to have a list of some of the health habits which 
children should be encouraged to acquire, and also a list 
of those which should be discouraged. 

Desirable health habits. (1) Cleanliness of body, especially 
of the hands, and cleanliness in the schoolhouse and on 
the school-grounds; (2) cleaning the teeth; (3) ventilating 
the schoolroom; (4) correct sitting and standing postures; 
(5) proper breathing; (6) cleaning shoes before entering the 
schoolroom; (7) correct use of the voice; (8) right use of the 
eyes; (9) care of hair and nails; (10) use of individual drink- 
ing-cups, pencils, and other materials; (11) dusting school- 
furniture; (12) proper cleaning of blackboards; (13) use of 
the handkerchief; (14) proper mastication of the food; 
(15) eating only enough to satisfy the appetite; (16) cheer- 
fulness at mealtime; (17) movement of the bowels once a 
day; (18) washing hands after going to the toilet; (19) exer- 
cise in the open air daily; (20) self-control; (21) sufficient 
sleep; (22) bandaging for ordinary emergencies; (23) prop- 
erly cooking a few ordinary foods; (24) care in crossing the 
street in front of teams and automobiles; (25) care of milk 
and other foods. 

Bad habits to be discouraged. (1) Putting anything into 

which obscures. If the hectograph seems too soft, it should be boiled 
some more; if it seems too dry and cracks, it may be heated and a little 
more water or glycerin added; if it gets worn and ragged in the using, it may 
be put into the oven for a moment or two, when it will again cool evenly." 



56 HEALTH EDUCATION IN RURAL SCHOOLS 

the mouth except food; (2) expectorating on the floor or 
sidewalk; (3) biting nails; (4) thumb-sucking; (5) "swap- 
ping" gum, food, etc.; (6) coughing in another's face; 
(7) kissing on the lips; (8) carrying soiled handkerchiefs; 
(9) picking the nose; (10) rubbing the eyes; (11) reading 
in a dim light; (12) putting foreign bodies in the ear; 
(13) cracking nuts with the teeth; (14) licking the fingers 
in turning the pages of a book; (15) overeating; (16) eating 
when tired; (17) using another person's brush, comb, 
towel, or drinking-cup; (18) wearing wet clothing; (19) 
bandaging a cut with a soiled rag; (20) wearing shoes that 
are ill-fitting; (21) negligence in bathing regularly; (22) not 
exercising daily in the open air; (23) neglecting a daily 
evacuation of the bowels; (24) not washing hands after 
going to toilet; (25) drinking an insufficient amount of 
water; (26) grouchiness; (27) insufficient amount of sleep; 
(28) bad sitting and standing postures; (29) eating too fast. 

A training class in hygiene. This book will have failed 
utterly in its purpose if it does not make clear to the reader 
that the teacher's work is to be judged, not by the character 
or the amount of information that the children acquire, but 
by improved tendencies in behavior, particularly in the for- 
mation of hygienic habits. The effective teacher of hygiene 
is one who trains her pupils to act in the right way. 

In our best city schools, under the stimulus of medical in- 
spection, a good beginning has been made in actually train- 
ing children to conserve and improve their health; but the 
vast majority of our rural schools have scarcely begun to 
consider the problem. This has been shown by every recent 
survey of rural schools. The survey of the rural schools of 
Porter County, Indiana, by the United States Public 
Health Service shows, for example, that 18.3 per cent of 
the boys and 10.5 per cent of the girls never used a tooth- 
brush at all, and the daily use of the toothbrush was 



HEALTH HABITS 57 

noted in but 13.9 per cent of the boys and in 40.9 per cent 
of the girls. An investigation of the other hygienic habits, 
either in these schools or in others, would probably show 
the same deplorable lack of training. 

In previous pages many suggestions have been offered 
as to how this training may be given. Dr. Burnham has 
recently suggested that in every rural school a training 
class might be formed. He describes a visit to a rural school, 
and offers suggestions as to training in these words: 

Recently I visited a little rural school of excellent character. 
The teacher was intelligent, sensible, interested in her work. She 
had splendid discipline without any apparent show of authority. 
The children were bright, helpful, obedient, active, ready to play 
hard at recess, ready to work in the schoolroom. But apart from 
the admirable discipline and the scholastic training in the matter 
of studying the daily lessons, the work of the schoolroom seemed 
to be all instruction with little or no training. That there was 
plenty of opportunity in this school for training was obvious. The 
children might have been more careful in their own personal 
hygiene; their teeth especially were not properly cared for. As 
regards the schoolhouse, the toilets, although new, were unsanitary; 
in the schoolroom the curtains shut out the light from the upper 
half of the window where it was needed; a little later in the season 
the room would probably be overheated or improperly heated. In 
general, the sanitary condition could have been much improved. 

This school is typical of a large number, probably of most 
schools, in the rural districts in this country. In such a school a 
training class in hygiene would find plenty of opportunity for 
learning. Among its exercises could be included the acquisition 
of habits of personal hygiene, normal posture, special care of the 
teeth, care of the school-grounds, cleanliness of the schoolroom, 
the use of fresh earth, if nothing better, in the toilets every day, 
adjustment of the windows for proper ventilation with regard to 
the direction of the wind, the regulation of the temperature of the 
room, adjustment of the curtains, and the like. Membership in 
such a class should be made a mark of honor, since service is always 
honorable. 

With a tactful teacher such a class would give training that 
would be far more valuable than mere instruction in hygiene. 



58 HEALTH EDUCATION IN RURAL SCHOOLS 



CLASS EXERCISES 

1. Make a survey of your health habits. What habits do you need to 
form? Practice on one of these habits until it is performed auto- 
matically. Keep a record of your successes and failures and every- 
thing that helped and retarded your progress. 

2. Visit some rural school for a day. Notice whether the instruction in 
hygiene points directly to habits as a way of solving health prob- 
lems. Are the children being trained in practical hygiene in the 
schoolroom? Is the school equipped with sanitary devices so that 
habits may be formed conveniently? 

3. Add to the list of desirable and undesirable habits that children ought 
to form. 

4. Which of the curricular subjects in the elementary school are pre- 
dominantly informational or idea subjects? Which are predominantly 
habit-fixing? 

5. Enumerate some of the instincts and interests by which all children 
are actuated. How may health habits be related to these? Give 
illustrations. 

6. Make a catalogue of games and dramatics through which the children 
could be led to form certain health habits. 

7. Recall from your instruction in physiology and hygiene in the grades 
how much determining influence such instruction has had upon your 
own health habits. 

8. Can you think of concrete instances from your own experience in 
which information was so compelling as to carry over immediately 
into decisive action? Describe these instances in detail. 



CHAPTER IV 

STUDYING THE HEALTH OF THE CHILDREN 

It is well then, to begin with the child, for he presages the coming 
man. He is the plastic material that can be moulded ill or well; he 
is gigantic in possibilities, but dwarfed if without opportunity. 

(Dr. George B. Mangold.) 

Whatever has to do with the growth of the child has to do with the 
teacher. No one can teach a sick child. It cannot be done. The 
building, the equipment, the books, the teacher, are all wasted on 
the sick child. A sound mind rarely dwells in a sick body. 

(Angela Patri.) 

To teach hygiene in such a way that children will leave 
school at the end of the year without a loss of health, and 
even with a positive gain, necessitates a careful study of 
each child. Psychology and hygiene tell us that no two 
children are exactly alike. Any method, then, which 
attempts to deal with pupils as a mass must be a failure. 
In the teaching of hygiene the teacher should see that every 
individual child forms those habits which for him are espe- 
cially important. A tall, stooped-shouldered boy needs, 
for example, to give especial attention to his posture; the 
nervous child possibly requires more sleep; and the child 
with defective vision needs glasses, or at least improved 
habits of using the eyes in study. 

The need of medical inspection in rural schools. In our 
large city schools it is practically universal now to employ 
physicians to examine the school-children. In many sys- 
tems the physician examines all the children at the begin- 
ning of the year to detect the most obvious physical defects. 
After this initial inspection children are turned over to him 
by the teachers whenever he presents himself at the school- 
building, which may be every day or once or twice a week. 



60 HEALTH EDUCATION IN RUKAL SCHOOLS 

In our best school systems there are also nurses who visit 
the homes to educate the parents as to what is necessary 
for the welfare of their children. When the parents are 
financially unable to cooperate, as, for example, in the case 
of a child who needs glasses, charitable societies are often 
appealed to or the matter may be referred to the board of 
education. Medical inspection has proved to be of great 
worth in promoting the health of children and thereby 
securing better work in school; it has also protected society 
from epidemics, because by this means first cases of diph- 
theria and other diseases are often promptly discovered 
and isolated. 

The medical inspection of school-children has scarcely 
made a beginning in our rural schools. (See p. 34). It is a 
pressing need, since over half of the children of the Nation 
live in the country, and statistics show that they are not 
in as good a condition physically as city children, and also 
that they live under conditions that are not nearly as favor- 
able for health. Then, unlike the city child, they are largely 
denied medical attention by specialists, such as may be had 
in hospitals and clinics in cities. There are many obstacles 
to overcome before medical inspection is legalized in all of 
our rural schools. One of the chief difficulties is the lack 
of appreciation of such measures in rural communities. 
Meantime the wide-awake teacher interested in social 
welfare may help to get the people in rural districts inter- 
ested and informed about the prevention of disease and 
more healthful conditions of living. She may even do some- 
thing to take the place of medical inspection until the school 
officials are ready to accept the responsibility. It should 
be noted, however, that even in schools that have the very 
best of medical inspection the success of the undertaking 
depends in large measure on the teacher; for it is she who 
knows the children individually and recognizes conditions 



STUDYING THE HEALTH OF CHILDREN 61 

out of the ordinary. When symptoms are suspicious chil- 
dren may be referred to the physician for examination. 

The teacher may discover many defects. Every teacher 
should be able to discover such difficulties as defective 
vision, decayed teeth, bad posture, chronic sore throat, etc. 
Even under the most unfavorable conditions the teacher 
may find out much about the health of her pupils, and best 
of all she may do something to correct bad habits and ill- 
health. 

A health survey by the teacher. What the teacher is 
going to emphasize especially in her teaching of hygiene 
will be determined largely by the special needs of the chil- 
dren. If most of the children have unclean teeth and bad- 
looking mouths, oral hygiene should have a conspicuous 
place in her program. To decide what special health cam- 
paign is to be inaugurated she should begin a detailed study 
of the health of the children as soon as she begins work in 
a new school. Dr. Hoag believes that ninety per cent of the 
ordinary defects may be discovered by teachers. It would 
be well to make a survey of the health of every child in the 
school, using a form like that on page 62, suggested by Dr. 
Hoag. 1 

The hectograph may be used effectively to prepare copies 
of this form. If this does not seem feasible the questions 
may be copied in a notebook (one with detachable leaves 
would be preferable), space ruled for answers, and the report 
of each child carefully indicated. 

This plan may seem to the reader to be a bit of red tape 
involving a waste of time, but experience goes to show that 
making a record like this leads the teacher to observe more 
accurately than she otherwise would. From such a survey 
she will know better what to teach in her classes in hygiene, 

1 See Dr. E. B. Hoag, Organized Health Work in the Schools. Bull. U.S. 
Bureau of Education, 1913. 



62 HEALTH EDUCATION IN RURAL SCHOOLS 



ABBREVIATED CARD FORM OF A TEACHER'S HEALTH 
SURVEY OF THE SCHOOL CHILD 

NAME SCHOOL 

GRADE AGE 

DATE 

Yes No 

1. Have you ever been in a grade more than one year? 

2. Have you ever had any serious sickness? 

3. Do you feel strong and well now? 

4. Do you eat breakfast every day? 

5. Do you eat a noon meal every day? 

6. Do you drink coffee? 

7. Do you always have your bedroom window open at 
night? 

8. Have you been to a dentist within a year? 

9. Do you have toothache often? 

10. Do you own a toothbrush? 

11. Do you use your toothbrush every day? 

12. Do you have a toothbrush of your own? 

13. Do you have much trouble with headache? 

14. Can you read writing on the blackboard from your 
seat? 

15. Does the print in your books run together or look 
dim or crooked? 

16. Do your eyes hurt after reading a good while? 

17. Do you sometimes see two letters or two lines in- 
stead of one? 

18. Do you often have earache? 

19. Do your ears ever run? 

20. Can you always hear the teacher? 

21. Do you go to bed by nine o'clock? 

22. Do you go to bed by ten o'clock? 

23. Do you bathe at least once every week? 

24. Have you ever been vaccinated? 

25. Have you ever had smallpox? 

* Remarks 

* Find out also the child's height and weight. See pp. 63-68- 



STUDYING THE HEALTH OF CHILDREN 63 

what special habits to inculcate, what topics to present at 
parent-teacher meetings, etc. 

While the teacher should begin to observe the children 
critically as soon as school begins, she should get fairly well 
acquainted with the children so as to win their confidence 
before the survey is begun. It is desirable to have the chil- 
dren step to the desk one by one and answer the questions 
as asked by the teacher. Care should be taken to see that 
the pupils understand the questions. Answers should not be 
suggested. The event should not be a formal affair that the 
pupil will dislike, but on a conversational plane in which the 
pupil is encouraged to talk freely about himself. 

In addition to taking the record as suggested, it would 
also be well to record some general observations as to 
whether a child is breathing well, whether the teeth are no- 
ticeably decayed, whether he is pale or peculiar in any way, 
whether he has a cough, running nose, running at the ears, 
skin trouble, or any swelling about the neck. The eyes and 
ears should, of course, be carefully tested. (See Chapter 
XVI.) Such observations should be carefully recorded so 
that they are readily accessible. 

If there is medical inspection, these reports will help the 
teacher to call the doctor's attention to particular things. 
If there is no medical inspection, the teacher may eventu- 
ally, by employing tact, bring certain facts to the attention 
of parents. This must be done with great care, however, and 
there must not seem to be any criticism of the home. Coop- 
eration with the home will be discussed more in detail in the 
next chapter. Outside of any cooperation with the home, 
the teacher may accomplish much by training the child in 
the schoolroom and by getting the child to keep health 
records. (See pp. 51-54.) 

The importance of knowing the height and weight of the 
children. In one of the public schools of New York City 



64 HEALTH EDUCATION IN RURAL SCHOOLS 

a unique experiment 1 in health education is now going on. 
It is one of those pioneer movements which promises much 
for the health of the boys and girls of America if it spreads, 
as it probably will. It offers some valuable suggestions to 
rural school-teachers who have enlisted the cooperation of 
parents, and particularly to those teachers who have good 
medical inspection in their schools. 

In this school all the pupils are weighed and measured 
and their weights and heights are compared with those of 
normally developed children. A child that is below the 
normal weight, especially far below the normal weight, is 
physically unable to do the work of the school properly. 
He is in reality a sick child. This deficiency in weight 
may be due to worry, bad heredity, lack of exercise, eye- 
strain, lack of sleep, improper diet, or other causes. This 
school attempts to find out the causes of this short weight 
and to remedy the conditions. The interest of the boy 
or girl is aroused and a graph which shows the results from 
week to week is accurately kept. Those pupils who 
finally achieve the normal weight are given a certificate 
of graduation from the nutrition class. The support of 
the boys was aroused by telling them that they were not 
in the fine condition that boys as tall as they ought to be. 
They were also told that they could not play ball and 
other games as well as they should because their muscles 
were too soft. Motives, such as being attractive, being 
athletic, etc., were also presented to the girls. The graphic 
method of recording the results has proved to be very 
fascinating to the children, and they have followed the 
suggestions of teacher and physician with care. The in- 
terest and cooperation of the parents has been gained and 
many of the children have won their certificates. 

1 Camelia Waite Uzzell, "A Demonstration in Health Education, New 
York," The Survey, June 1, 1918. 



STUDYING THE HEALTH OF CHILDREN 



65 



The graph below shows the record made by one of the 
members of this class. 



P 5 


P 12 
















A 9 


A 16 


A 23 


A 3O 


Ma. 7 


" 


y ^<5 


s// 


\riQ 

X 


i 
X 


X 


X 






X 


X 


X 


X 




0* 


/y A 


/cf ** 
X 


X 


X 


X 


X 




X 


X 


X 


X 


X 




58 




























57 












fcA 




1 


_l 


^ 


- 


^7 




56- 


/Vo"> 


jo/JS 


eignl 


- - 


_ 












/ 






55 


















_ 


^ 








54 












H 


,|.doV 


V 












S3 








/G 


-^ 
/c/ 


^-*~ 
















5Z 


A 1 




/ 


/ 




















51 / 


't 


\\ 


/ 






















Cl 

2093 


C 

2IO5 


C 

1707 


C 

3I--K2 


C 


c 

2162 


c 

24-30 




c 

2322 


C 

2S32 


c 

2502 


c 

220ft 




C 

2750 



FIG. 9. A NUTRITION GRADUATE 

On April 30 Dorothy T.'s weight line crossed the normal and she received a certificate of 
graduation from the nutrition class. Dorothy is ten years old. She was a "straight nutrition 
case," needing only rest and "something to interest her in eating." Each vertical line marks 
a week, and the "C" at the bottom means average number of calories of food per day. 

(From Camelia Waite Uzzell's "A Demonstration in Health Education," The Survey, 
June 1, 1918.) 

It would be absurd to expect that the rural school- 
teacher, often with a minimum knowledge of hygiene and 
assisted by little or no medical inspection, would be able 
to carry on such an experiment. However, this experiment 
does suggest several things that a teacher might do. 
Although few rural schools have scales, it will be possible 
in most cases to find out the weight and height of the dif- 
ferent children. In the case of those children who are under 



66 HEALTH EDUCATION IN RURAL SCHOOLS 



weight she can make a special study of the conditions re- 
lating to their health. With the help of parents, who may 
become interested through personal talks or through the 
medium of the parent-teacher association, much might 
be done to correct the inferior weight. Doing something 
to relieve a child from worry incident to school work, 
advising more sleep, or bringing about any general improve- 
ment in health habits, will sometimes help greatly to solve 
such problems. When a pupil is habitually ten per cent or 
more under weight parents should usually be advised to 
consult a physician. The movement inaugurated during the 
past year by the Children's Bureau of the United States 
Department of Labor to get mothers to weigh children, if 
continued in succeeding years, should do much to educate 
parents. The following table prepared by the Children's 
Bureau is recommended for the teacher's reference : 

TABLE OF HEIGHTS AND WEIGHTS OF CHILDREN 

(From the table recommended by the Children's Bureau, U.S. Department 

of Labor) 





Soys 


Girls 


Age 








Height (inches) 


Weight (pounds) 


Height (inches) 


Weight 
(pounds) 


5 yrs. 


41.6 


41.1 


41.3 


39.7 


6 yrs. 


43.8 


45.2 


43.4 


43.3 


7 yrs. 


45.7 


49.1 


45.5 


47.5 


8 yrs. 


47.8 


53.9 


47.6 


52.0 


9 yrs. 


49.7 


59.2 


49.4 


57.1 


10 yrs. 


51.7 


65.3 


51.3 


62.4 


11 yrs. 


53.3 


70.2 


53.4 


68.8 


12 yrs. 


55.1 


76.9 


55.9 


78.3 


13 yrs. 


57.2 


84.8 


58.2 


88.7 


14 yrs. 


59.9 


94.9 


59.9 


98.4 


15 yrs. 


62.3 


107.1 


61.1 


106.1 


16 yrs. 


65.0 


121.0 


61.6 


112.0 



STUDYING THE HEALTH OF CHILDREN 67 

To determine whether or not a child is of normal weight 
in proportion to height, consult the column referring to 
height, and find the number corresponding nearest to the 
child's height. His weight, irrespective of age, should be 
found in the column directly to the right. For example, 
John is 55 inches tall. According to the table, he should weigh 
about 77 pounds. If over a series of months he should weigh 
70 pounds or less he would be a malnutrition case. A child 
who is below the height and weight of children of his own 
age is not necessarily in a serious situation, for he may have 
normal weight for his height. His inferiority may be due to 
the small stature of his parents. 

One of the common errors in connection with malnutri- 
tion, is to think that the home does not provide enough 
food for the children. This will usually prove to be un- 
true. Dr. W. R. P. Emerson sums up the question of mal- 
nutrition in these words: 

The child ten per cent under weight is not well. To say that 
he is sick comes much nearer the truth. Many think that children 
outgrow such trouble, but they do not. They grow worse. The 
child three or four per cent under weight at seven years, may be 
ten per cent under weight at twelve years, and if the trouble is 
not removed he grows to maturity with lowered vitality. 

The problem in the home is seldom poverty. The under-nour- 
ished child often has brothers and sisters who are plump and well, 
thriving on the food the family can afford. 

Neither is it a question of cookery. In the beginning I thought 
that I would have to teach the mothers to cook, but I soon threw 
away the cookbooks and dismissed the dietitians. The children 
will do well enough on the food the household usually provides. 
All that we have to do is to be sure that they are getting enough 
of it. 

For children in this condition "enough" means from two thou- 
sand to three thousand calories of food daily. They are physically 
bankrupt, practically in the condition of the typhoid convalescent. 
Like the convalescent, they cannot assimilate large amounts of 
food at a time, and it is necessary to provide small amounts more 



68 HEALTH EDUCATION IN RURAL SCHOOLS 

frequently. A light luncheon in the morning and afternoon is im- 
portant to bring the number of calories up to the required total. 
Their meals should come at regular hours, and they should be 
careful to eat slowly, and not to wash down half -chewed foods with 
quantities of liquids. 

Under-nourished children must rest a good deal. They need to 
store up energy. They have very low endurance and playing or 
working hard exhausts them more than normal children. Worry 
about school standing, or anxiety about conditions at home, will 
reduce the weight of a malnourished child. Malnourished chil- 
dren need rest as much as they need food. They should go to 
bed early at a regular hour, and have also a rest period morn- 
ing and afternoon. After any violent exercise they should rest. 
Such children are constantly drawing on their reserves for the 
future. 

They must have plenty of air. If they sleep in a closed room, or 
if their breathing is obstructed, they cannot gain. A frequent 
cause of malnutrition is lack of breathing space due to diseased 
tonsils and adenoids that cut off the air passages. The removal 
of such obstructions usually means an immediate gain of several 
pounds, followed by a steady rise to normal. 

Necessity of excluding from school children with sus- 
picious symptoms. For the good of the school and the 
community children who have suspicious symptoms of 
contagious disease should be immediately excluded from 
school. The outbreak of an epidemic, besides being dan- 
gerous to the children and causing perhaps immeasurable 
suffering, interferes seriously with the work of every child 
afflicted. If the school is closed, it means that the educa- 
tional advancement of every pupil will be retarded. Should 
a number of children come down with a disease because of 
exposure in school, it means that every case will be a means 
of further contagion to the community. Large sums of 
money must be spent by parents for doctors' bills. From 
every point of view the outbreak of an epidemic is danger- 
ous and expensive. There is still one more point to be 
added an epidemic is almost entirely unnecessary if 



STUDYING THE HEALTH OF CHILDREN 69 

children with suspicious symptoms are immediately ex- 
cluded from school until their return is recommended by a 
physician. 

The teacher's responsibility in excluding pupils. In our 
best city schools there are usually certain definite rules and 
regulations about the exclusion of pupils from school. For 
example, a pupil complains of sore throat; he is referred at 
once to the school physician who examines the throat and 
takes a culture. If, after a microscopic examination, which 
takes a few hours, there is a report of diphtheria or malignant 
sore throat, the child is legally excluded from school. Not 
until one and sometimes two negative cultures are taken 
will the pupil be allowed to return. Under such conditions 
it is comparatively easy for the teacher to perform what is 
obviously her duty. 

In the rural schools the situation is quite different. 
The legal authority of the teacher is limited, and the rural 
community has not yet been educated to the point where it 
will always appreciate the teacher's efforts. Every teacher 
before beginning to teach should know exactly what her 
legal authority is with reference to the exclusion of children 
from school because of suspicious symptoms. Such in- 
formation may readily be secured by addressing a letter 
to the State Department of Education. The expert at the 
head of this department has various titles, as State Com- 
missioner of Education or Superintendent of Public In- 
struction. A copy of the school law of the State will usually 
give all the information desired. There is a decided tend- 
ency at present to give the teacher more and more author- 
ity. The State of Pennsylvania has gone perhaps further 
than any other State in its latest quarantine laws, making 
every teacher practically an assistant health officer. The 
Pennsylvania law outlining their duties according to the 
act of 1915 is as follows: 



70 HEALTH EDUCATION IN RURAL SCHOOLS 

That every teacher, principal, superintendent, or other person 
or persons in charge of any public, private, parochial, Sunday or 
other school, having in any such school any child or person showing 
an unusual rash or skin eruption, or complaining of soreness in 
the throat, or having symptoms of whooping-cough, or any disease 
of the eye, shall immediately exclude such child or other person 
from the schools, pending the action of the health authorities, and 
shall report such fact to the health authorities, and shall report 
such fact to the health officer of the city, borough, or township, 
giving the name and residence of such child or other person. 

Such regulations uphold the action of the teacher and 
give her an opportunity to offer refractory parents who may 
be dissatisfied with her action satisfactory and substantial 
reasons. 

According to Dr. Royer, 1 the latest quarantine law not 
only gives the teacher legal authority, but also provides 
that a teacher shall be subject to penalties and fines if she 
fails to comply with the law. Such ironclad authority vested 
in the teacher is a great step forward in effective health 
administration. 

Unfortunately, in the vast majority of States the teacher 
has little if any authority in excluding pupils from the 
school on account of illness or suspicious symptoms. Her 
way is therefore more difficult. What she will be able 
to do in the way of sending home pupils with particular 
symptoms and recommending to parents that a physician 
be consulted will depend on the attitude of the community 
toward health problems. The cooperation of the commu- 
nity may be enlisted to a large extent through the discus- 
sions of such problems at parent-teacher meetings. (See 
Chapter V.) 

Symptoms warranting exclusion from school. If the 

1 B. Franklin Royer, The Teacher's Function in the Prevention of Commu- 
nicable Diseases, with Special Reference to Legal Authority. Proceedings, 
American School Hygiene Association (1916), pp. 91-95. 



STUDYING THE HEALTH OF CHILDREN 71 

school is not to become a disease center, it is imperative 
that the teacher recognize suspicious symptoms of disease 
early and that children having these symptoms be sent home 
until a physician recommends their return. This may be 
difficult and in some cases a questionable policy, but that 
the rural community needs to be educated to appreciate 
and demand such procedure is indisputable. As Dr. Royer 
says: 

There seems to be no good reason why any teacher, finding a 
pupil in her school with reddened eyes and coughing or sneezing, 
should not suspect measles and immediately exclude that child 
from school pending a definite diagnosis. There seems to be no 
good reason why any pupil with an acute sore throat or sore throat 
and sick stomach could not be kept from exposing other pupils 
to probable diphtheria, tonsillitis, or scarlet fever, all these affec- 
tions being characterized by sore throat, and scarlet fever notably 
with sore throat, sick stomach, and vomiting. There is no good 
reason why any teacher should not exclude from association with 
his fellows any child with a florid rash that might easily be develop- 
ing scarlet fever, measles, or German measles. And so with the 
various eruptive affections of the skin, such as scabies, ringworm, 
favus, particularly if the section of the body involved is exposed 
to the teacher's view. 

Dr. Thomas D. Wood l refers to these indications of 
health disorders in children for which parents should keep 
the children at home and notify the school : 

Nausea or vomiting. 

Chill, convulsions (fits). 

Dizziness, faintness or unusual pallor (alarming paleness of the 

face). 

Eruption (rash) of any kind. 
Fever. 

1 See Health Essentials for Rural School-Children, prepared by Dr. 
Thomas D. Wood, Chairman of the Committee on Health Problems of the 
National Council of Education, 525 West 120th Street, New York City. 
A copy of this valuable pamphlet may be secured free by applying to Dr. 
Wood. Enclose a three-cent stamp with your letter. 



72 HEALTH EDUCATION IN RURAL SCHOOLS 

Running nose. 
Red or running eyes. 
Sore or inflamed throat. 
Acutely swollen glands. 
Cough. 

Failure to eat the usual breakfast. 

Any distinct or disturbing change from usual appearance or con- 
duct of child. 

These signs are also recommended to teachers "as a 
basis for excluding pupils from school for the day or until 
signs have disappeared, or until the proper health officer 
has authorized the return of the pupil to school." 

What teachers ought to know about the ordinary con- 
tagious diseases of childhood. If the teacher is to come 
in contact with the parents and community and teach the 
children how to avoid diseases of childhood she ought to 
know something about the signs and symptoms of the most 
common maladies, the method of infection, the possible 
after-effects and the period of exclusion desired. An excel- 
lent discussion of these topics is to be found in Hoag & 
Terman, Health Work in the Schools (Houghton Mifflin 
Company, Boston). As it is impossible to consider these 
matters in detail in this volume the reader is referred to the 
accompanying highly condensed table taken from the 
above-named book. 

In looking over this table the teacher will notice how 
many of these diseases at their outset appear like a cold. 
Sore throat, inflamed and running eyes, feverishness, and 
running at the nose are common symptoms. If public 
opinion were enlightened such pupils might be promptly 
excluded. However, the teacher may direct children so 
inflicted to sit apart from others, to cover their coughs 
with pocket handkerchiefs, and to take the ordinary pre- 
cautions against the spread of disease. 

The table follows: 




!I 



ft 3 




"3 3 



>s s Sei 

S) _S & ^3 g d *s Q 
SQ3a0<S(BB p OO 








11 





IW 

*s r 3 



Ill 



Illl 

PM ca<i: as 



"g 5 

8 11 

a 



J5 



3'S. BE o> SJS 3 "5. 5 

2 ^o)^ * ^5 t S"-*^ 

|f|:pi|ii 



o a 
p4 

SJS 






o 

S'S.S 



I 



. 

'i*. 

5 

.a 2 

C/2 O' 






SS'S.Ajs 

a" i nd o 
H u 

S ^2^ 

rfijEI 

&r * 

J8 > 3 a 

? i a a 

^^^g 



gi 



.s s 



I 
|Ss K l 

2 o^ p " 

^S 






^^ 
2 

O 0) 



*j p f -d 
ill 

w w w 



I 

HH 

o 
3 

PQ 



I! 



<5 "2 cS.2 CU 1 ^ w 3 

II fill 1^1 il 

-sj | a s s ^ 

S'O ^ hn .3 



111 1,1 



! ls 



J1&1IPII llsl-iPlliill 

M ^* -* " -- rt )5^(_42o .H'SilS 



F O 

-lit^p 2 >..-" 

h aj 3 'eS 13 "^ 



*S *rt ""^ 



"J S M 

*l < 8l5 



g ||l;| 1 



!,* s 



l 



i 



JO J3A9J ^gjIBOg 



i-Ss 



.a 



1-S.s 



, 



itul-BBBi 

-^'Sl &%J 



f|l!l g t-slP 

H 3, 5 

$ 4? a 

wJ 8 a 



i^^ Js g fl 

^1|a||H 

afl^ll] 

A o-g.g.,1 J 



+ 

a - 



sn 



I 



jSj bo J 

'I -I ti 

4) co 03 O 

a O, a 

a^S 
"? " I-S 

Is J 

pS-J SS-3 



i 



O 



3 a> OTP-I 




Hf III: 



xodj^rag 



STUDYING THE HEALTH OF CHILDREN 77 



CLASS EXERCISES 

1. Is there medical inspection of schools in your State? If so, find out all 
you can about the work that is being done. 

2. If there is medical inspection of city schools near at hand, try to see the 
inspector at work. How are the teachers cooperating with the in- 
spector? What suggestions do you get from such a visit that would be 
helpful to a teacher in rural schools where there is no medical inspec- 
tion? 

3. Does the teacher have any legal authority hi your State to exclude 
from school children having suspicious symptoms? Look up the law 
in detail. 

4. Make a health survey of your own school. What are the most serious 
physical defects found? What percentage of the children do you find 
in excellent health? What percentage have serious physical defects? 
How many are under weight? How will the results of this survey affect 
your plan of instruction and training during the year? 

5. Are there any charitable or philanthropical societies in your neighbor- 
hood which employ a district nurse? If so, interview such bodies and 
endeavor to persuade them to cooperate with your school in furnishing 
an occasional nurse whenever occasion demands. 

6. Look over the reports of your State Board of Health and your State 
Superintendent of Schools for facts regarding the health of school 
children. To what extent are the rural school-teachers doing active 
health work in their schools? 



CHAPTER V 

SECURING THE COOPERATION OF PARENTS AND 
COMMUNITY 

The home must not abdicate in education unless the whole basis 
of our civilization is radically to change. Those who are labor- 
ing with wisdom, effectiveness, and patience to bring the home 
and school into closer understanding and more intimate coop- 
eration are real benefactors. (Nicholas Murray Butter.) 

THE teacher who attempts to put into execution the 
suggestions given in this book will meet with absolute 
failure if she ignores the sentiments of the community 
where she teaches. This is particularly true if she happens 
to have been born and educated in the city and so is un- 
familiar with the customs and traditions of rural commu- 
nities. The country districts are conservative, but if ap- 
proached in the right way they respond quite readily to 
able and tactful leadership. It is well for the teacher to 
realize that parents can be led, but that they cannot be 
driven. It is the purpose of this chapter to indicate briefly 
what the teacher may do toward assuming this leadership 
and enlisting the interests of the rural community. 

Visiting the homes of the children. When the teacher 
begins work in a new school, it would be an excellent plan 
to call at the homes of the children as soon as she feels 
fairly well acquainted with the children. If the teacher 
boards in the community and such a plan is highly de- 
sirable to get the best results such visitation should 
entail no hardship. Such calls need not be long and ordi- 
narily the conversation should not dwell exclusively on 
school matters. It would be well for the teacher to show 
an interest in the varied activities of the neighborhood. 



COOPERATION OF PARENTS AND COMMUNITY 79 

Such brief visits will enable her not only to begin the ac- 
quaintance of the parents, but also to observe to some 
extent some of the most pressing health problems. To 
form a strong and sympathetic bond between the. home and 
the school, the parents must, of course, be interested in 
the school. A really intelligent interest is impossible unless 
they know something ' about its work. For this reason 
parents should be invited to visit the school. 

The support of the school officials. The cooperation of 
local boards of education is indispensable, not merely be- 
cause they control the expenditure of money for school 
purposes, and so may do much to hinder or help the work 
of the teacher, but also because they are commonly the 
most influential men of the community. Their sympathy 
with the teacher's aims makes it easier for her to be recog- 
nized as a leader in the community. If they will accept the 
suggestions of the teacher, much may be done for the sani- 
tation of the schoolhouse and grounds and the health of 
the children. Such problems as cleaning outhouses, getting 
proper school furniture, books, etc., cannot be solved to 
any great extent without the active interest of the school 
board. 

Ways must be found to arouse and maintain this interest. 
The methods will be determined in large measure by the 
teacher on the ground. One of the first things to do is to 
get acquainted with the members of the board. If the 
teacher wishes really to gain some influence with them 
she must first reveal herself as something besides a school- 
teacher. She must be a human being. She needs to talk 
intelligently and interestingly about the things that are 
vital to these men and their families. Sometimes this co- 
operation may be gained by asking for the advice of members 
of the board as to certain school policies, sometimes through 
their own children who are in the schools. When there are 



80 HEALTH EDUCATION IN RURAL SCHOOLS 

school entertainments, sociables, or picnics, and members 
of the board are present, it is always a good plan to assign 
to them places of importance, as chairmen of committees. 
Some teachers have found it advisable to invite all the 
members of the board to visit the school on a certain day 
to see what the school is doing. Under such circumstances 
these men would appreciate being asked to make a few 
remarks, even if they felt obliged to decline. The tactful 
and enthusiastic teacher will find many other ways of 
getting the support of the school board. 

The need of a parent-teacher association. This need 
of a closer union between the home and the school has 
begun to be keenly felt throughout the country within the 
last few years; it has given rise to that splendid organiza- 
tion known as the parent-teacher association. In our large 
cities it has attracted the attention and won the support 
of our best educators. "In parent-teacher meetings," says 
Superintendent Slaton, of Atlanta, Georgia, "full, free, 
and friendly discussion establishes the relations that ought 
to exist between the parent and the teacher. The mother 
and father are made to see their vital opportunity in shaping 
the child's destiny, and the teacher is broadened by learning 
the conditions in the home. Consequently the parent and the 
teacher form a common understanding, each teaching the 
other some vital truth that both ought to know. Much 
time is saved, friction between the teacher and pupil is 
averted, and unkind feeling and complaint against the 
teacher is made impossible. The pupil is rendered more 
receptive, the teacher more patient and intelligent, and 
the parent more sympathetic and appreciative. The prod- 
uct of all these combined forces is the maximum good to 
the child, who is both the foundation and the maker of our 
civilization." 

Ella Flagg Young, formerly Superintendent of Schools 



COOPERATION OF PARENTS AND COMMUNITY 81 

at Chicago, says: "Observations of the spirit pervading 
the meetings of Parents' Clubs lead me to believe that in 
these clubs is the corner stone for that structure which will 
make the life of the child in the home and in the school a 
unity, not a life divided between two neutral, if not hostile, 
camps." 

In our rural districts where there is so often a dearth of 
social activity and where every innovation in the school 
runs counter to a thoroughgoing conservatism there is a 
still greater need of some kind of organization where 
teacher and parents may get together to discuss freely their 
common problems. Such an association has an influence 
over all the activities of the school; but is especially prom- 
ising in the field of hygiene. Geography, grammar, history, 
arithmetic, spelling, and writing may all be taught effi- 
ciently without any special cooperation of the home, but 
stable education in hygiene makes the support of the parents 
almost a necessity. 

Achievements of parent-teacher associations. The 
parent-teacher associations in the short time that they 
have been in existence have accomplished noteworthy 
results. A list of these achievements gives a good idea of 
the many different ways in which a club for parents and 
teachers may be helpful. While these results have been 
gained largely in cities a majority of them could be repro- 
duced in the country. Some things that have been done 
by the parent-teacher associations are here noted: l 

1. Provided educational courses for mothers. 

2. Increased and bettered legislation for children and women 
in both communities and States. 

S. Lifted home ideals, taught better methods of sanitation, 
encouraged a better and more nourishing dietary. 

1 Compiled by Frances Johnson in Parent-Teacher Associations, Bulletin 
No. 3, April, 1913, State Normal School, Cheney, Washington. 



82 HEALTH EDUCATION IN RURAL SCHOOLS 

4. Lightened the problems of school discipline. 

5. Established circulating libraries in connection with schools. 

6. Provided equipment for schools, such as paper towels, sani- 
tary drinking-foun tains, warm lunch, manual training, and 
household economics equipment. 

7. Has brought about needed reforms in school management, 
sanitation, equipment, and curriculum. 

8. Introduced medical and dental inspection and the study of sex 
hygiene. 

9. Provided playground apparatus, supervision of playgrounds, 
and physical instructors. 

10. Improved school-grounds, through planting of shrubbery, 
flowers, vines, etc. 

11. Encouraged contests in flower- and vegetable-raising by pro- 
viding seeds and rewards for best production. 

12. Encouraged and stimulated home industry for boys and girls 
with school credit. 

13. Purchased musical instruments for the study of the best music, 
and stereopticons for the study of the best picture and geogra- 
phy work. 

14. Instituted campaigns of education in favor of simple school 
dresses for girls. 

15. Supervised places of amusement for children, like moving- 
picture shows, school parties, etc. 

16. Furnished rest rooms for teachers. 

17. Created a sentiment for cooperation and good-will between 
teachers and parents, so that teachers are investigating home 
conditions affecting children, and parents are studying the 
school curriculum and environment with the view of bettering 
conditions. 

18. Established social centers, often hi the schools. 

19. Established kindergartens. 

20. Received the endorsement of boards of education and State 
superintendents and have been made advisory councils to 
local school boards. 

21. Aroused public sentiment to the needs of school improvements 
before school boards pass on them, in order to have a commu- 
nity backing. 

22. A hospital clinic was established in Los Angeles, California, 
where last year seven hundred school-children have been made 
well and strong. 



COOPERATION OF PARENTS AND COMMUNITY 83 

How to organize a parent-teacher association. Before 
undertaking to organize one of these clubs it would be 
desirable to write to the National Congress of Mothers and 
Parent-Teacher Associations, 910 Loan and Trust Building, 
Washington, D.C., and state that it is intended to form an 
association in your school and that you would appreciate 
receiving any material designed for free distribution. 
Also enclose four cents in stamps for the pamphlet How to 
Organize Parents' Associations and Mothers' Circles. The 
literature which may be secured from this source free or for 
a nominal sum will prove helpful in almost every emer- 
gency which may arise. 

One of the difficulties in forming the organization is to 
get parents together for the first time. If they come the 
first time and are pleased, it will be easier to get them to 
come again. The simple announcement that such an asso- 
ciation is to be organized will not be attractive enough for 
them to make a sacrifice to be present. Some teachers 
have found it helpful at this first meeting to get up some 
simple kind of entertainment at which the children will 
participate or to invite in some special musical talent or a 
well-known speaker. Just what is to be done will be de- 
termined by the time and place of the meeting. The school- 
house would seem to be the best place because it is usually 
centrally located, and will accommodate everybody who 
may attend, but most of all because it is highly desirable 
that parents should get into the habit of coming to the 
school and getting familiar with the house and grounds, 
thereby getting some good notion of the physical needs of 
the school. Probably it would be most convenient to the 
patrons of the school if the meetings were held regularly 
in the afternoon after school. But all questions as to the 
final time and place of meeting would naturally be deter- 
mined by the patrons after the first meeting. 



84 HEALTH EDUCATION IN RURAL SCHOOLS 

If the association is to have a good start, the teacher 
should not merely call the meeting and let it drift. She 
should have the details all thought out. If there has been 
no previous organization of its kind in the district, the 
patrons even before the meeting must have some realiza- 
tion of its purpose. As the teacher visits the homes of the 
children or incidentally meets the parents, she can tell about 
this great movement which is sweeping over the land, why 
it is needed, and what it is accomplishing. Usually the 
parents will consent to attend at least the first meeting. 
Before the meeting is called the teacher will know that 
enough have declared themselves in favor of it to insure a 
good attendance. 

A strong sentiment for the formation of a parent-teacher 
association should be created at the first meeting. For this 
purpose the parents need to be clearly informed as to the 
purpose of such an organization. It would be advantageous 
to get somebody who has had first-hand experience in such 
clubs to present the aims and tell something about results. 
Some higher school official, as the County Superintendent 
of Schools or the Superintendent of some town near at 
hand, might be secured. If this proved to be impossible, it 
might be managed by the teacher herself. What she has to 
say should be thought out very clearly beforehand and 
presented in a natural but convincing way, after which 
officers should be elected and arrangements made for the 
next meeting. 1 

The meetings of the association. The teacher must 
necessarily be the guiding spirit in every parent-teacher 
organization, but she will bear in mind that the success of 
the undertaking will be largely proportionate to the degree 
in which every member takes an active part. Although she 
should be able to advise wisely when called upon and 

1 For details of organization, see the pamphlet mentioned on page 83. 



COOPERATION OF PARENTS AND COMMUNITY 85 

should be the general director of the club, she should try 
to make herself inconspicuous rather than prominent. 
If the parents once get an idea that it is the teacher's asso- 
ciation, it will meet with a speedy death. 

Since the number of meetings for a year must be limited, 
each meeting, if it is to be really worth while, must be care- 
fully planned. Some definite practical problem needs to be 
presented and there should be an opportunity for every 
member to take part in the discussion. This can best be 
insured, perhaps, by calling on everybody in order. After 
a paper has been read or a topic presented orally, there will 
be a chance during the discussion which follows for parents 
and pupils to exchange points of view and finally hit, per- 
haps, on some scheme of cooperation. Let us suppose, for 
instance, that Mrs. J. presents the topic of flies as disease- 
carriers. In such a presentation Mrs. J. may tell about their 
method of carrying disease, the kinds of disease transmitted, 
and the manner in which they may be exterminated. If 
the schoolhouse is frequented by flies, it might be an excel- 
lent plan to have this topic brought up during the fly season 
so that the patrons of the school may observe the dangers 
to which their own children are subjected. Few rural 
schools are screened, and it often happens that children 
find it impossible to eat their lunch without danger of hav- 
ing their food infected by the filthy insects. Then, too, it is 
not uncommon to find that privies are so open that their 
contents are exposed to flies. Parents will be interested to 
know whether the health of their children is being pro- 
tected. As a result of the discussion and inspection, the 
teacher may tell about the lessons she is giving the children 
on flies and her plan of getting the children to screen the 
doors and windows themselves. The parents will naturally 
be glad to cooperate by encouraging the children and also 
perhaps by contributing screening or netting for the pur- 



86 HEALTH EDUCATION IN RURAL SCHOOLS 

pose. If the right kind of interest is aroused, the school 
board may be asked in a friendly way to clean and repair 
privies. It is hardly likely that all these results would be 
achieved in one meeting, but there seems to be no reason 
why these ends should not finally be gained. 

There should be no hesitation on the part of a parent to 
be a leader because of inability to write a paper or give a 
talk, as papers on the most important topics may be bor- 
rowed for a nominal sum from the National Congress of 
Mothers and Parent-Teacher Associations, Washington, 
IXC. All these papers are prepared by experts in some 
department of child study. 

It would be well to vary the meeting now and then by 
asking somebody outside of the community to give a talk. 
When some special problem regarding health is under con- 
sideration a physician might be invited to make a few 
remarks. This would sometimes be very profitable in edu- 
cating parents, especially in cases where modern hygiene 
runs counter to some of their most stable traditions. One 
of these ancient traditions refers to children's diseases. 
Most parents in our rural districts to-day accept without 
any qualification the exploded theory that it is a good plan 
for children to get diseases like measles and whooping- 
cough early in life, as the disease if contracted later is 
likely to be more severe. Frequently parents see that their 
little children are exposed as a means of protecting their 
health. In the light of such a belief, parents are not likely 
to take precautions against the contraction of the disease, 
nor are they inclined to look with favor on any plan pro- 
posed by the teacher to isolate from school children that 
have symptoms of these diseases. The truth of the matter 
is that these diseases in early childhood are dangerous and 
the longer they can be postponed the better. 

Of whooping-cough, a so-called minor disease of child- 



COOPERATION OF PARENTS AND COMMUNITY 87 

hood, Dr. Chalmers, 1 statistician of the New York State 
Department of Health, says that it "has carried off more 
lives in New York State during the past five years than the 
much more dreaded scarlet fever. The total number of 
deaths from scarlet fever during the years 1911-1916 was 
2904, equivalent to an average rate of mortality of 5.9 per 
100,000 total population. During that same period 3739 
children died from whooping-cough, which corresponds to 
an annual death-rate almost thirty per cent higher than 
scarlet fever 7.6 per 100,000." In summarizing Dr. 
Chalmers says: 

A disease which carries off each year in New York State between 
seven and eight hundred lives (most of them children under five 
years of age) ; which causes long periods of illness among forty times 
the number of persons it kills; and leaves the patient debilitated, 
and very susceptible to broncho-pneumonia, diarrhceal disorders, 
and not infrequently predisposing to tuberculosis surely such 
a disease is more than "a minor disease of childhood," subject 
to the indifference of parents and the neglect of local sanitary 
authorities. 

Dr. Chalmers also notes something which is of consider- 
able interest to rural school-teachers: the mortality rate 
from whooping-cough in the country is much higher than in 
the cities. This he believes is due to the energy of the 
larger cities of the State in "employing more effective 
measures to detect, isolate, and control cases of whooping- 
cough." 

Such information as this might be effective if read to a 
group of parents, but it would probably be more so if pre- 
sented by some physician who had the respect of the neigh- 
borhood. 

Subjects on health for parents' meetings. The problems 
to be considered at parents* meetings will be governed to 

1 Health News. Monthly Bulletin. New York State Department of 
Health, March, 1917. 



88 HEALTH EDUCATION IN RURAL SCHOOLS 

a large extent by the most pressing problems of the school 
and the community, yet it is sometimes helpful to have 
a number of topics suggested from which to choose. The 
National Congress of Mothers and Parent-Teacher Asso- 
ciations, Washington, D.C., publish much literature which 
may be suggestive. The organ of this Congress is the Child- 
Welfare Magazine, issued monthly, subscription $1.00 per 
year. Study outlines for mothers' and parents' associations 
and valuable papers on child nurture appear in its columns. 
Leaders in educational work are among its contributors. 
A sample copy of this magazine may be secured free by 
addressing Child-Welfare Magazine, P.O. Box 4022, Phila- 
delphia. 

The writer would suggest the following subjects relative 
to health as being valuable for discussion in parent-teacher 
associations in rural schools: 

1. Important health habits and how they may be formed. 

2. The value to the pupil of keeping a health record. 

3. The purpose of medical inspection; why it is needed in the 
rural schools. 

4. What symptoms would justify the teacher or pupil in excluding 
children from school until a physician can be called. 

5. The dangers from children's diseases; the value of postpone- 
ment. 

6. How disease may be carried. 

7. The prevention of common colds. 

8. The fly problem what are we doing to solve it? 

9. The rat as a menace to health how he may be destroyed. 

10. The educational and hygienic value of play. 

11. The effect of bad posture on health and how it may be cor- 
rected. 

12. School lunches how they may be made inviting and nourish- 
ing. 

13. Should children drink tea and coffee? 

14. The care of the eyes. 

15. The care of the ears. 

16. The care of the teeth. 



COOPERATION OF PARENTS AND COMMUNITY 89 

17. The value of exercise. 

18. Home credit in hygiene. 

19. Sanitary privies for rural schools. 

20. What playground apparatus do we need and how can we get 
it? 

21. The care of the baby. 

22. First aid to the injured. 

23. Why cities are more healthful than the country. 

24. The teacher's aims in teaching hygiene. 

25. Hygiene in the home. 

26. Sex hygiene why it needs to be taught. Who shall teach it, 
the teacher or parent? 

How parents may cooperate with teachers to get children 
to form habits. In the previous pages the formation of 
health habits has been emphasized as being of fundamental 
importance. Success in getting many of these habits estab- 
lished depends on the sympathetic insight of the parent 
into the teacher's plan and a willingness to help. As the 
teacher makes a survey of the school and gets pupils started 
in keeping health records, she will find a good deal in then- 
lives that needs to be corrected. Here, for example, is a 
boy with a bad standing posture. He may be assigned, as 
a part of his school work, the problem of correcting his own 
posture with the understanding that he is to be marked on 
his results. The teacher may remind him of his failures in 
the schoolroom, but without the help of the parents it may 
never be corrected. The father or mother who appreciates 
the danger of being round-shouldered and knows what 
effort the teacher is making to get the boy to overcome his 
defect may render valuable assistance. 

Then there are some habits over which the home has 
practically entire supervision, as those of securing the 
proper number of hours of sleep, the daily evacuation of 
the bowels, chewing food thoroughly, avoiding excessive 
use of condiments, etc. It would be an excellent plan at one 



90 HEALTH EDUCATION IN RURAL SCHOOLS 

of the first meetings of the year to put into the hands of 
every parent present a copy of the health record which 
children are to be encouraged or required to keep, to state 
the reasons why it is important, and to ask the aid of 
parents. Not infrequently teachers learn that parents are 
only too happy to lend assistance, as they have tried, but 
in vain, to get their own children to form some of these 
habits. The teacher and parent working together may 
achieve what neither was capable of accomplishing sepa- 
rately. As time goes on, it should be less difficult to confer 
with parents about the health of their own children. 

The appeal to neighborhood pride. Nothing will so stim- 
ulate a community as a belief that it is accomplishing some- 
thing as good as if not better than other communities. The 
newspaper may be used effectively to arouse such pride. 
The editors of rural weeklies are usually glad to publish 
notices or articles of community interest. Reports of 
meetings should be brief and to the point. They should 
give the name of the leader, the topic to be discussed, and 
the time and place of meeting. Other announcements of 
events, such as the making of play apparatus by the chil- 
dren, the grading of the school-yard, and stereopticon lec- 
tures on health, might also be written up and offered for 
publication. 

CLASS EXERCISES 

1. Present as many reasons as you can to show that parent-teacher 
associations should be organized. 

2. If possible attend the meeting of some parent-teacher association. 
Report just what took place. 

3. Add to the list of topics suggested for discussion on page 88. 

4. Try to recall what evidences there were of intimate relationship between 
the home and the school in your own early school life. 

5. Do you think that, on the whole, country people are more or less 
amenable to wise leadership than city people? Which type is more 
interested in the public school? 

6. Make out a program for the first meeting of a rural parent-teacher 
association. 



CHAPTER VI 

PLANNING THE COURSE OF STUDY IN HYGIENE 

Unless we can devise methods of transforming our hygienic knowl- 
edge into hygienic doing, our service will remain futile. 

(Dr. W. H. Burnham.) 

IN our city schools the work in the various subjects is 
organized so that a particular field is covered in each year's 
work. This is made possible in the city because the schools 
are carefully graded and a printed course of study is usually 
provided. In rural schools the conditions are usually quite 
different. Often the teacher stays in one school but a few 
months, she leaves to her successor almost no record of the 
work done, there is little or no attempt at grading, and it 
is seldom that a course of study exists. 

The value of a course of study. In previous pages we 
have referred to the necessity of having clear and specific 
aims in teaching if worth-while results are to be achieved. 
A good course of study is especially important because it 
sets up general and specific aims and suggests subject-matter 
and methods by which they may be realized. If there is no 
course of study there is a great probability that some things 
of importance will be omitted and that other things will 
be repeated several times, until they become tiresome to 
the pupils. This is the situation with reference to health 
instruction: The teacher finds certain textbooks in the 
hands of the pupils, and without regard to their content, 
pages of subject-matter are assigned and pupils are asked 
to reproduce the information gained. The textbook may 
be inaccurate as to the most recent developments in hygiene 
or it may emphasize anatomy and physiology and only 
refer to hygiene in a most superficial way. It may make no 



92 HEALTH EDUCATION IN RURAL SCHOOLS 

reference to health problems of special interest to people 
in a rural community. The pupils may have gone through 
these books several times before. All this makes no differ- 
ence. There may be no supplementary reading and the 
teacher's time is, of course, limited. The easiest and best 
way will often seem to be that of slavishly following the 
textbook. Hygiene is usually a tail-end subject that is 
taken up in a "hit-or-miss" fashion. It is seldom that 
pupils can tell what they have learned with reference to 
health except that certain pages have been covered. Simply 
because a school is not graded is no reason why there should 
not be a course of study. Let us suppose that there are 
two classes in hygiene, an advanced class including, roughly, 
pupils in grades seven and eight, and a more elementary 
course including pupils taking work corresponding to grades 
five and six. Often there will be two textbooks, one for 
each class. Under ordinary conditions a pupil would be 
in the same class for two consecutive years and might cover 
the same material each year. If the teacher has a broad 
point of view as to health education, she will plan a course 
for each year which is distinct from the other. Half of the 
textbook might be covered each year and enough other work 
assigned independently of the book to keep the pupils 
interested and busy. If a teacher is to remain but a short 
time in a school, such plans for the future may seem un- 
necessary and a waste of time. It is the business of the 
school superintendent, if there happens to be one, to call 
his teachers together and plan the course of study. But if 
there is no definite course of study, the teacher should see 
that her instruction is not aimless and without result. A 
preliminary study of the schoolhouse and grounds, the 
children and the community, should give the teacher points 
as to a profitable health program for a series of months or 
for a year. It is the definite campaign which attains results 



PLANNING COURSE OF STUDY IN HYGIENE 93 

even over a comparatively short time. It would be well 
to remember that getting mere information which does not 
lead to action is worthless. 

Relate information to habits to be formed. It is a fallacy 
to imagine that a child must always have a scientific reason 
as to why it is necessary to do certain things. Children may 
be taught, for example, to clean then* teeth without appre- 
ciating the meaning of such words as germs, infection, 
dyspepsia, etc.; yet there always comes a time when chil- 
dren have a natural curiosity to know about such things. 
Information concerning such matters will doubtless assist 
at such times in getting the habit established. This does 
not mean, however, that the mere gaining of information 
by children is useful. As hygiene is usually presented, 
they get a very distorted notion about matters of funda- 
mental importance. 

The futility of attempting to teach the rather technical 
aspects of the subject to immature minds is seen in answers 
given by pupils on examination. Professor Gregg l gives 
these quotations, which he says are typical of the answers 
taken from an eighth-grade examination from one of the 
most progressive counties in Nebraska: 

"A common disinfectant is smallpox." 
"Mastication is what is going on." 
"Epidermis is a certain kind of medicine." 
"The diaphragm is another word for backbone." 
"The bones are made up of hard mucous membrane." 
"Pericardium is something that will put you to sleep." 
''Respiration means all the different juices in the body." 
"The diaphragm is very delicate and is located in the head." 
" Fumigation is when the air is shut off and death may come." 
"The Eustachian tube is a tube running all over the body." 
"The nervous system is a kind of tube where the blood vessels 
are in." 

1 F. M. Gregg, "Teaching Hygiene as Nature Study in the Elementary 
Grades," American Journal of School Hygiene, April, 1917. 



94 HEALTH EDUCATION IN RURAL SCHOOLS 

"The process of digestion causes headaches and much impure 
blood. Fried potatoes often causes digestion." 

"The way to treat a burn is after I burned it I would put my 
finger on the stove just where I burned it before." 

"A disinfectant is anything you catch by going where they are. 
Measles and chickenpox are disinfectants. When you have them 
you should stay in the house and keep warm and try not to give 
them to others. Pimples on the face are not disinfectants but some 
kinds are." 

Such answers show inability to think clearly and accu- 
rately about ordinary health affairs, and also to appreciate 
the importance of health habits. Fortunately in Nebraska 
there is a great movement on foot to correct such useless 
teaching. Information presented to children needs to be 
simple, interesting, and to have a direct reference to the 
formation of good habits. 

In considering, for example, the physiology of digestion, 
the function of mastication might be emphasized and the 
need of thorough mastication pointed out. In discussing 
the use of the saliva in digestion, those conditions which 
influence a bountiful supply of the saliva, such as appetizing 
food, pleasant surroundings, and a happy frame of mind, 
should be noted. Pupils may then be led to see what they 
can do to help the process of digestion. The course of study, 
or the teacher's plan of health campaign, should select that 
information and organize it in such a way that it will tend 
to function in action. 

Plan of outlining course of study. In most courses of 
study in hygiene the habits that are to be formed do not 
stand out on paper, nor is it clearly seen just how informa- 
tion to be gained is organized so as to motivate particular 
habits. This is a serious mistake. The course of study 1 for 
the fourth grade, on page 95, tends to bring out clearly 

1 Prepared by a committee of Boston teachers of whom the writer was 



PLANNING COURSE OF STUDY IN HYGIENE 95 



the two important elements in every course of study in 
hygiene, namely, information and habits, and shows the 
relation between them. The most important habits which 
teachers are advised to follow up vigorously are printed in 
bold faced type. Although designed primarily for city schools, 
there is nothing in its content that would not make it use- 
ful in its present form in a rural school. It is reproduced 
here in the hope that it may be suggestive to school superin- 
tendents and teachers in planning their work in hygiene. 

COURSE OF STUDY IN HYGIENE FOR THE FOURTH GRADE 



Habits to be formed 
I. Cleanliness. 

A. Skin and Hair. 

1. Take warm bath weekly. 

2. Wash face, neck, ears, daily. 

8. Times for washing hands. 

a. Wash hands before meals. 

b. Wash hands after going to the 
toilet. 

c. Wash hands before going to 
school. 



4. Keep nails cut and clean. 
Demonstration and inspection. 

B. Teeth. 

KEEP TEETH CLEAN 

1. Clean the teeth before going to 
bed. 

2. Clean the teeth after eating if 
possible. 

8. Keep brush in a dry, clean place', 
and, if possible, in the sunlight. 
Demonstration and inspection. 

C. Nose. 

1. Use a clean handkerchief. 

2. Pat handkerchief before face 
when coughing, and also when 



8. Keep hands away from nose, 

mouth, and eyes. 
D. Elimination of waste. 

1. Have a daily movement of the 
bowels. 



Information to be acquired 
I. Cleanliness. 
Need of bathing. 
A. Skin and Hair. 

1. The need of weekly bath. 

2. Need of the daily washing of 
face, neck, and ears. 

8. Times for washing hands. 

a. The vital need of washing 
hands before meals. 

b. The vital need of washing 
hands after going to the toilet. 

c. Need of washing hands before 
going to school. (Need of 
carefully drying hands.) 

4. How to cut and clean the nails. 



B. Teeth. 

Need of cleaning the teeth. 
The care of the temporary teeth 
as important as that of the per- 
manent teeth. 

Care of the sixth-year molar. 
Need of regular visits to dentist. 



C. Nose. 

Danger of a soiled handkerchief. 
Blow the nose gently. 



D. Elimination of waste. 

1. Necessity of getting rid of the 
waste of the body at regular 
times. 

(Pamphlet from City Hospital.) 
Coarse foods as a prevention of 
constipation. 



96 HEALTH EDUCATION IN RURAL SCHOOLS 



2. Go to the toilet at definite times. 

E. Cleanliness in school. 

1. Deposit all wastes in barrels 
provided. 

2. Do not spit on the premises. 
Inspection. 

II. Clothing. 

A. Cleanliness. 

1. Put on clean underclothing after 
weekly bath. 

2. Air and brush outside clothing. 

B. Protection. 

1. Removal of extra clothing. 

a. Take off outer wraps in 
schoolroom. 

b. Take off rubbers when indoors. 

2. Take off wet shoes and stockings 
at home. 

HI. Fresh air and sunshine. 

1. Keep curtains up. 

2. Open windows day and night 



IV. Food and drink. 

A. Mastication. 

Chew food slowly and thor- 
oughly. 

B. Clean food. 

1. Wash raw fruit before eating. 

2. Do not exchange partly eaten 
food. 

3. Drink from an individual cup. 
V. Exercise and rest. 

1. Play at recess and after school. 

2. Go to bed early. 

VI. Posture. 

Sit, stand, and walk correctly. 



VII. Eyes. 



1. Read with the light at the left or 
right side or at back. 

2. Read only with a good light. 

3. Wear your glasses all the time. 

4. Keep your glasses clean and ad- 
justed. 



2. Necessity of definite times for 

urination. 
E. Cleanliness in school. 

Cleanliness makes for health. 



II- Clothing. 

A. Cleanliness. 

Need of clean clothing. 



B. Protection. 

1. Importance of putting on extra 
clothing when out of doors. 



2. Importance of removing wet 
clothing. 

III. Fresh air and sunshine. 
Necessity. 

Suggested experiments. 

Plants and fresh air and sunshine. 

Plants and stale air and sunshine. 

Petri dishes. 

Places. Home and school. 
Time. Day and night. 

IV. Food and drink. 
Necessity. 

A. Mastication. 

Value of eating slowly and chew- 
ing thoroughly. 

B. Clean food. 

1. Need of washing fruit. 

2. Danger of exchanging partly 
eaten food. 

V. Exercise and rest. 

Value of exercise and rest. 
Value of games assigned in the 
course of study. 
VI. Posture. 

Especial need of children always 
having correct posture. 
VII. Eyes. 

Importance of sight. 

1. Danger from facing light. 

2. Danger of using eyes in twilight or 
poor light. 

8. Necessity of wearing glasses all the 

time. 
4. Necessity of keeping glasses clean 

and properly adjusted. 



Alcohol and Tobacco. 

Alcohol Unhappiness caused by the use of alcohol. 

Cost: money used for alcohol could contribute to the comfort of the family. 
Tobacco 1. Not a clean babit. 2. Cost. 

8. Effect on growth and scholarship of children. 



PLANNING COURSE OF STUDY IN HYGIENE 97 

Difference in instruction in lower and higher grades. Al- 
though forming health habits should be a fundamental aim 
in teaching younger as well as older children, the approach 
may vary somewhat in each case. A child on entering school, 
and for the first two or three years thereafter, can under- 
stand little of the scientific reason why he needs to act in 
a particular way. Although systematic instruction would be 
fruitless, children may be taught to have right attitudes 
toward certain health problems and to act correctly. For 
example, children brought up in a home where the fly is 
regarded with disgust and is promptly exterminated when- 
ever found in the house, early assume the same emotional 
attitudes and modes of behavior. I have seen children less 
than three years of age who showed great irritation when a 
fly buzzed around their food. It would be impossible, of 
course, to explain to a child some of the scientific reasons 
why flies should be killed. The gaining of such information 
at this time is also quite unnecessary. But the teacher 
should strive, even with children just entering school, to get 
right attitudes and action. Every child with proper training 
in the school might get a feeling of disgust when asked to 
"swap" gum or food or to drink from a cup that has been 
"passed around." The habits referred to on page 55, if 
not already acquired by children, should be begun at once. 
Much of this instruction must necessarily be incidental. A 
child that slouches in his seat may be told whenever the 
occasion arises that he would look so much better if he sat 
up: or a pale, ansemic pupil who has a tendency to mope 
indoors during recess may be encouraged to go outdoors to 
play. Although much of the teaching of hygiene to little 
children must be incidental, it should not be entirely so. 
For example, every child should get the habit of using a 
toothbrush as speedily as possible. Results will not be 
gained unless direct instruction is given. Little children 



98 HEALTH EDUCATION IN RURAL SCHOOLS 

may be told quite simply about the need of having the 
teeth cleaned and daily inspection may be instituted. 
Direct lessons when given to little children should be short, 
simple, and made to appeal to some dominant interest. 
Many teachers find that some of the time devoted to morn- 
ing talks may be used to advantage to instruct the whole 
school in regard to health. This would be especially desir- 
able when some project like the use of individual drinking- 
cups is to be undertaken by the whole school. 

Beginning at the age of nine or ten, the instruction, while 
still emphasizing incidental teaching, may be planned more 
systematically so that the child's natural curiosity about 
some things may be satisfied and the outlook as to health 
broadened. The work in the upper grades should provide for 
careful training in emergencies and a careful study of the 
ways in which disease is transferred with special reference 
to the problems of the community. Community, hygiene 
should always be considered in relation to citizenship. 

Training in emergencies. The ability to meet a serious 
emergency effectively depends on one's training to do the 
right thing at the proper time. Every boy and girl in our 
public schools should be trained to give first aid. If possible 
a textbook, like Gulick's Emergencies, should be placed in 
the hands of all the older pupils. The teacher should at 
least possess such a volume. 

The child's love of action may now be used to advantage. 
Children may be taught to make bandages, apply them to 
make-believe wounds, carry a companion assumed to be 
injured, etc. There is, however, a more practical aspect. 
Children at school are likely to have cuts, burns, sprains, 
bruises, slivers, dirt in the eyes, etc. Under such conditions 
there is usually no hygienic treatment at the school. In the 
case of a cut, at the risk of infection a soiled rag or hand- 
kerchief may be wrapped around the wound to stop the 



PLANNING COURSE OF STUDY IN HYGIENE 99 

flow of blood. Under such conditions the class training in 
emergencies should be useful. An emergency outfit ought 
to be at hand so that the children with the aid of the teacher 
may treat the case themselves. These outfits may be se- 
cured or at least ordered through any drug-store, but if the 
teacher wishes to get along at a minimum expense, she may 
easily collect the necessary drugs and materials at slight 
cost. I would suggest the following as being almost indis- 
pensable: 

Pins, common and safety. 
1 dram bottle oil of cloves (for toothache; a drop on cotton in 

cavity). 
1 pair scissors. 
1 small package of absorbent cotton, bandages (may be bought 

at the drug-store or loosely woven pieces of clean cloth may 

be brought from home by the children). 
1 roll of surgeon's plaster. 
1 small bottle of carron oil (for burns). 
1 package of borax (for gargle). 
1 half pint of witch hazel (for sprains), quarter of a pound of 

Creolin (Pearson's), one teaspoonful in one pint of water 

makes antiseptic solution. 
1 oz. boracic acid (eye wash). 

Such material should be kept in a covered box out of the 
reach of the little children. 

Emphasis on health rather than disease. It is a mistake 
for the teacher to dwell on disease, its symptoms and mor- 
tality. Such information tends to promote morbid states of 
mind and often, especially with younger children, defeats 
the true ends of health education. As a people we are still 
very wasteful and inefficient because we pay too little atten- 
tion to matters of health until sickness or accident over- 
takes us. Then we go to the physician to effect a cure, often 
when it is too late. It is an old-fashioned saying, the truth of 
which, I believe, has never been questioned, that "an 



100 HEALTH EDUCATION IN RURAL SCHOOLS 

ounce of prevention is worth a pound of cure." It is the 
business of hygiene to furnish this ounce of prevention; its 
purpose is to prevent disease, to make the body and mind 
so healthy that the doctor may be less and less necessary. 
To accomplish this it is not necessary to make a detailed 
study of symptoms and mortality. If the teacher can get 
children to form good health habits, disease will be less 
prevalent. Let the teacher talk health and the happiness 
it brings! 

Hygienic instruction during epidemics. In hygiene, as 
in all subjects of the curriculum, it is always desirable to 
consider problems that have current interest in the com- 
munity. If measles, scarlet fever, or diphtheria break out, 
the interest in the prevention of these diseases will be natu- 
rally at a white heat. Here is the teacher's opportunity. At 
the parent-teacher meetings she may discuss the symptoms 
of the disease, how it is spread and how to cooperate with 
the teacher in the care of the children's health. The course 
of study in hygiene should not be so rigid that it cannot be 
modified to meet such an emergency. Principles of hygiene 
may now be presented to pupils effectively. Suppose that 
a pupil in school should become ill with diphtheria. Then 
is the time, says Dr. Royer, "to impress upon pupils how 
the germs are spread from the mouth of the individual and 
how the droplets of moisture carrying thousands of germs 
are thrown off in coughing or sneezing; then is the time to 
make pupils see that these germs may be readily transferred 
from lip to lip, from mouth to pencil or book, from the 
moistened ringer of the pupil to the printed page, etc. And 
so with scarlet fever, tonsillitis, or impetigo contagiosa, the 
lesson of infectiousness by close personal contact, by the 
use of common towels, by kissing or the exchange of food- 
stuff, the swapping of gum or cores a chance, if properly 
utilized, is presented to leave impressions that will never be 



PLANNING COURSE OF STUDY IN HYGIENE 101 

forgotten." Such instruction with reference to a particular 
disease is valuable also for the prevention of disease in gen- 
eral. It reinforces instruction previously given and may 
contribute powerfully toward the inculcation of important 
habits. 

In connection with the spread of disease both parents and 
children should be told explicitly of the danger of personal 
contact and the possibility of a healthy person carrying the 
germs of disease. 

First-hand study of health problems. Most instruction 
in hygiene is altogether too bookish to be effective. It be- 
gins with the reading of a book and ends there. As a means 
of cultivating interest and acquiring clear ideas, the teacher 
will find the method of studying concrete problems before 
using the textbook highly desirable. For example, the care 
of milk is highly important. Instead of getting children to 
read what may be found in the textbook, it would be better 
to visit some model dairy in the vicinity. If it is impossible 
for the teacher to go with members of the school, some of the 
pupils might go and report orally or by means of a composi- 
tion what has been learned. The subsequent reading and 
discussion would then prove much more interesting and 
profitable. Many concrete problems of personal hygiene 
and the health of the community may be helped toward a 
solution by actually getting children to do something to 
improve their own health and the sanitation of schoolroom 
and grounds. Such practical work is destined to reach the 
homes. Rural communities need to have examples presented 
to them in concrete form. 

Keep a record of the health achievements of every child. 
To make health education really effective, to focus atten- 
tion on every child, the teacher should keep a brief but 
accurate record of the improvement every child makes in 
his own health. This record might be kept in any kind of 



102 HEALTH EDUCATION IN RURAL SCHOOLS 

notebook, preferably in one with covers. The ordinary 
manilla-covered composition book, which sells usually for 
five or ten cents, would serve this purpose admirably. One 
or two pages might be reserved for each child. 

Here are selections from one of the better records of a 
child of twelve: 

JENNIE WILSON 

Oct. 1. Teeth very dirty and several are decayed. Hands 

clean. Bad posture. Anaemic. 
Nov. 10. Is learning to use toothbrush. Teeth are cleaner. 

Bad posture continues. Plays more at recess. 
Dec. 15. Complains of toothache. Continues to clean teeth 

regularly. No improvement in posture. Lips still 

pale. 
Jan. 15. Met Jennie's parents. As a result J. was taken to 

a dentist and her teeth were filled. J. is trying to 

play more in the open air. Parents seem inclined 

to help. 
March 15. Keeps her own health record with care. Teeth 

cleaner. Has much more color. Appreciable im- 
provement in posture. 
April 5. J. has helped the teacher to organize games. Spends 

more time in the open air. Continues to improve 

slightly in posture. 
May 15. Summary for the year: 

J. has had her teeth filled, has learned to use a 

toothbrush and is keeping the teeth clean. Less 

anaemic. Posture improved but still poor. 

Suggestions for next year. 

Her growing interest in outdoor games and sports 

should be encouraged. Would encourage her to try 

to get a good posture pin. 

In the case of the older children, the records might be 
made by each pupil himself with the help and approval of 
the teacher and the other members of the class. Such a 
book would then be subject to the inspection of every mem- 
ber of the class. Each pupil would thus be interested in see- 



PLANNING COURSE OF STUDY IN HYGIENE 103 

ing his own record improve, and also to compare favorably 
with his classmates. The keeping of such a book should be 
a part of the regular class-work, not only for the sake of the 
teacher who might be burdened with extra clerical work, 
but also in the interests of the pupils themselves. Such a 
plan if organized intelligently and tactfully by the teacher 
would make corrective work what it should be an im- 
portant aspect of all health education. 

Keeping a record of the health achievements of classes 
and the school. Space should also be reserved in the book 
we have mentioned for the health achievements of the class 
as a whole. In the more advanced class containing the older 
boys and girls we should expect many of the school projects 
to originate. This class should, of course, lead the school. 

The following is the type of record we should expect such 
a class to have: 

WHAT OUR CLASS DID IN THE INTERESTS OF HEALTH 

Sept. 20. We decided that we should not be content to merely 
read and talk about hygiene; we should also do 
something for the welfare of our school and our own 
homes. 

Oct. 1. We have just finished reading about drinking-water 
in our textbook. A study of the drinking-water in 
our school shows that we are doing several things 
dangerous to our health. The pail used for drinking- 
water has no cover, and we all drink from a common 
cup. Nobody knows when the pail was washed. 

Oct. 15. Jennie Wilson, who lives near the schoolhouse, 
took the water pail home and gave it a good scrub- 
bing. Sam Bacon brought a cover for the pail. Our 
teacher taught us to make paper drinking cups. 
It was fun to make them, but we found it difficult 
to keep a supply on hand and the smaller children 
used to drink sometimes from the same cup. It was 
decided finally by the class to ask every pupil in the 
school to bring a drinking-cup from home. Before 



104 HEALTH EDUCATION IN RURAL SCHOOLS 



this was done we had a talk about where these cups 
should be placed so that they could be kept clean 
and free from dust. Fred Barnes suggested that a 
little cupboard be made so that every cup might be 
hung on a nail with the pupil's name written on a 
slip of paper pasted below. During the sweeping 
and when the cupboard is not used, the door is to 
be closed. 



A 

piece 

& 

paper 
7 inches 
square. 




lirce 



D ..... C. 




the point 
n the line A C 





Fold B bock, 
open 




the line 

E -F. and 
gout" 6anifarg 
DRI/SKI/SG CUP 



FlG. 10. HOW TO MAKE A PAPER DRINKING-CUP 
(Courtesy of Department of Health, City of Chicago.) 

Oct. 20. In our arithmetic class we planned our cupboard. 
John Jones, who likes to draw, made a drawing of it. 
Two boys in the class volunteered to bring the neces- 



PLANNING COURSE OF STUDY IN HYGIENE 105 

sary pieces of board, and others brought hammer and 
nails. The cupboard was finally made. Mr. Doan, 
the director of our school, was pleased to see it. We 
also took up a collection of a few pennies from every 
pupil in the class to purchase some paint to paint the 
cupboard. 

Nov. 10. To avoid dipping our cups into the water pail Sarah 
Brunnell brought a pitcher with a cover. We pour the 
water into the pitcher and then into the different cups. 
Dec. 1. Some of the children drink out of each other's cups. 
The school at our suggestion has appointed a board 
of health consisting of William Brown, Annie Green, 
and Joe Sobiskey to see that each child uses his own 
cup. Everybody in the school is pledged to use his 
own cup and never that of any other child. 
Jan. 30. The board of health reports that it is very seldom 
that any pupil is seen to use another child's cup. 
Nobody has been observed to do this for three weeks. 
Our textbook says that we must have good habits 
to be healthy. We think this habit of using an indi- 
vidual cup is a good one and we feel that we have 
practically mastered it. 

March 1. Our school has no play apparatus. We have de- 
cided to make parallel bars and a teeter-board. 

April 1. Our play apparatus is made. The boys brought 
most of the material from home. It was made mostly 
after school. Mr. Radcliffe, at whose house the 
teacher boards, and three of the neighbors tunied 
in to help the boys late one afternoon. In addi- 
tion to what was planned we have a sandbox. 

April 10. We have just been studying what Dr. Hutchinson 
says about the house fly as a cause of disease. 

April 12. Some of the children have brought netting from 
home and we have tacked it over the windows. The 
door must wait until next year, but we are going to 
try to keep it closed. Every pupil in the class has 
made a fly "swatter" or a trap. Two of the traps 
have been put near the schoolhouse door, and we 
have caught many flies. The other fly-traps have 
been used at home. Silas Green reports that he 
made a trap for John Haist and received 50 cents. 



106 HEALTH EDUCATION IN RURAL SCHOOLS 

We feel that we have "done our bit" to get rid 
of the flies as Dr. Hutchinson would have us do. 

June 1. We had an entertainment last night and cleared 
$12.00. We have ordered from the N.W. Supply 
Co., Minneapolis, Minn., a bubbling drinking- 
fountain which is to cost $9.00. We can hardly wait 
till it comes. We believe a drinking-fountain is 
much more sanitary and convenient than using indi- 
vidual cups. 

June 12. Mr. Taft, the superintendent of the rural schools of 
this county visited our school to-day, and we showed 
him our new bubbling drinking-fountain, our home- 
made play apparatus and our fly-traps and screened 
windows. Mr. Taft says we have done the best 
health work of any school in the county; and that 
means a good deal, for Christopher County is one of 
the largest in the State. 

We are going to do just as well, if not better, 
next year. 

On the last day of school the teacher, or, better still, some 
of the older pupils, might well tell about the achievements 
of the school along the lines of health. This will help to en- 
lighten the community as to health and the work of the 
school; it will also tend to put a premium on actual accom- 
plishment in health conservation and improvement. From 
such a beginning the school, even under the leadership of 
another teacher, ought to continue to make progress. 

Health rules for school-children. Dr. Thomas D. Wood, 
representing a committee of eminent educators and authori- 
ties on educational hygiene, has formulated "Ten Golden 
Rules of Health for School-Children." They are so funda- 
mental and so admirably expressed that every teacher 
should know them. They are particularly valuable as show- 
ing the teacher what is most important in training children 
in matters of health. Mimeographed copies should be put 
into the hands of the older children. If this is impossible 
they might be copied into their notebooks from the black- 



PLANNING COURSE OF STUDY IN HYGIENE 107 

board. Each rule should be discussed in class. The teacher 
ought also to use every effort to follow up the children so far 
as practicable, to see that these rules are actually translated 
into life. The rules are as follows: 

1. Play hard and fair be loyal to your team mates and gener- 
ous to your opponents. 

2. Eat slowly. Do not eat between meals. Chew food thor- 
oughly. Never drink water when there is food in the mouth. 
Drink water several times during the day. 

3. Brush your teeth at least once a day. Rinse your mouth out 
well with water after each meal. 

4. Be sure your bowels move at least once a day. 

5. Keep clean body, clothes, and mind. Wash your hands 
always before eating. Take a warm bath with soap once or 
twice a week; a cool sponge (or shower) bath each morning 
before breakfast and rub your body to a glow with a rough 
towel. 

6. Try to keep your companions, especially young children, 
away from those who have contagious diseases. 

7. Use your handkerchief to cover a sneeze or cough and try to 
avoid coughing, sneezing, or blowing your nose in front of 
others. 

8. Study hard and in study, work, or play do your best. 

9. Sleep: Get as many hours in bed each night as this table indi- 
cates for your age. Keep windows in bedroom well open. 

Hours of Sleep for Different Ages 

Age Hours of Sleep 

5 to 6 13 

6 to 8 12 
8 to 10 11J 

10 to 12 11 

12 to 14 10 

14 to 16 10 

16 to 18 9 

10. Be cheerful, and do your best to keep your school and your 
home clean and attractive, and to make the world a better 
place to live in. 1 



1 From Health Essentials for Rural School-Children, prepared by Dr. 
Thomas D. Wood. 



108 HEALTH EDUCATION IN RURAL SCHOOLS 

Learning a health creed. It is believed by many teachers . 
that the reciting by children of the words pledging allegiance 
to the flag helps to cultivate a spirit of loyalty and an ideal 
of American citizenship. The recital of a health creed is also 
believed to encourage health habits and hygienic ideals. It 
is easy to exaggerate the importance of such a method. 
Habits are not usually formed with such ease. However, 
it is probably true that the enthusiastic teacher may in this 
way keep before children the fundamental goals of health 
and cultivate an interest and enthusiasm which may prove 
helpful. The teacher who uses such a creed needs to be 
reminded, however, that "lip service" does not necessarily 
imply effective health education. 

The following inspiring creed for boys and girls was re- 
cently issued by the Massachusetts State Department of 
Health: 

MY BODY IS THE TEMPLE OF MY SOUL 
Therefore: 

I will keep my body clean within and without; 
I will breathe pure air and I will live in the sunlight; 
I will do no act that might endanger the health of others; 
I will try to learn and practice the rules of healthy living; 
I will work and rest and play at the right time and in the right 
way, so that my mind will be strong and my body healthy 
and so that I will lead a useful life and be an honor to my 
parents, to my friends and to my country. 

The ideal farm. The older children should get some defi- 
nite concepts as to the health conditions that should prevail 
on a farm. The teacher may get a good idea of these essen- 
tials by looking over the points considered in the survey 
of the four Indiana counties described on pages 17-18. 
Phases of ideal farm conditions may sometimes be found in 
the neighborhood of the school. Pictures and lantern slides 
may always be used to advantage, but in the absence of all 
these an ideal farm, including model health conditions, may 



PLANNING COURSE OF STUDY IN HYGIENE 109 

be admirably represented in a sand box. This should be a 
project for the more advanced classes or for the entire school. 
Such a method never fails to arouse interest and it insures 
clear and definite ideas. 

Use of pictures and lantern slides. In most of the rural 
districts the achievements in hygiene and sanitation have 
been so meager that there is little to observe at first hand in 
the way of ideal sanitation. Such deficiencies may be sup- 
plied to a large extent by the use of pictures and lantern 
slides. One of the advantages in the use of such material is 
the possibility of presenting examples of both bad and good 
sanitation. In a region where the ideal barn is unknown, 
pupils through the use of pictures may get a definite idea of 
each. Teaching through contrasts in this way excites inter- 
est, leads to clear understanding, and helps pupils to get 
right standards. 

The plea of expense is no adequate excuse for not using 
pictures in teaching hygiene. Everybody in general reading 
of magazines and newspapers comes across pictures that 
illustrate various phases of hygiene. Even the advertise- 
ments in magazines may often be utilized in lessons on the 
teeth, posture, etc. Excellent pictures are often available in 
Government documents and health reports. All pictures 
that may be used should be classified and put into envelopes 
so that they are readily accessible. 1 

The stereopticon is invaluable as a means of instruction. 
The pictures are not only larger and clearer than the ordi- 
nary kind that can be secured, but they can be seen by 
teacher and pupils at the same time. A stereopticon is not 
only valuable for class-work, but also for community enter- 

1 The stereoscope is now rapidly coming into use in the teaching of vari- 
ous subjects. The Keystone View Company, Meadville, Pennsylvania, can 
furnish a good stereoscope and some excellent pictures on health habits and 
sanitation. Dr. M. V. O'Shea has just listed a portion of their well-known 
"606 Set" with special reference to health habits. 



110 HEALTH EDUCATION IN RURAL SCHOOLS 

tainments and parent-teacher associations. The lack of elec- 
tricity in a schoolroom need be no objection to buying a 
lantern, as an acetylene burner may be used effectively. 
Stereopticons suitable for use in the classroom are now so 
reasonable in price that almost any enterprising teacher may 
secure one by giving school entertainments to which a small 
admission may be charged. In purchasing a lantern teachers 
should be careful to secure a machine which is moderate in 
price, portable, and simple in adjustment. 1 

After the lantern is purchased, the slides may be obtained 
a few at a time as the money available warrants. If the 
parents in a district become interested there will be little 
difficulty in adding to the collection as they are needed. The 
possession of a lantern often makes it possible to invite tal- 
ent that could not otherwise be used. Often a physician or a 
member of a board of health who resides near by may be 
persuaded to show some slides and give a lecture to the 
school or the community on some health topic. A lantern 
may be used with equal advantage in showing slides on 
topics other than health. Slides may often be lent or rented 
from boards of health, State normal schools and agricul- 
tural colleges. Slides on various health topics such as pos- 
ture, the milk and water supply, the fly and mosquito prob- 
lem, etc., may be secured from the Educational Exhibition 
Company, Providence, Rhode Island, and Keystone View 
Company, Meadville, Pennsylvania. 

Compositions on health. Among the older children the 

1 The writer has used in his own classroom for some time a balopticon 
manufactured by the Bausch & Lomb Optical Company, Rochester, New 
York, and has found it Very satisfactory. An investigation by the author 
of their line of lanterns shows that they are well prepared to fill the needs 
of the ordinary teacher in the rural schools. Teachers who are interested 
should write to the above-mentioned firm or some other manufacturing 
concern of proved reliability for a catalogue. It is often a good plan to 
write to the manufacturers or dealers stating just what your needs are so 
they can advise accordingly. 



PLANNING COURSE OF STUDY IN HYGIENE 111 

writing of compositions may be useful in giving the teacher 
a good idea of the habits of the children or what informa- 
tion children have gained from certain reading or observa- 
tion. If children were called upon to write on " What I do to 
prevent colds," or, "What I saw at a model bakery," the 
teacher would get some information herself as to the habits 
and observation of the children which might play an impor- 
tant part in her future instruction. When compositions are 
carefully planned by the teacher, they may also be a means 
of inspiring children to be more observing or to do something 
worth while to record in their compositions. The following 
is an incomplete but suggestive list of topics for composi- 
tions: 

1. How we can improve the sanitation in the country. 

2. What this school is doing to exterminate flies. 

3. How we earned the money to buy screens for our schoolhouse 
windows. 

4. The value of clean milk and how it may be produced. 

5. Ideal health conditions on a farm. 

6. Danger from rats and how we may get rid of them. 

7. Why we should sleep with our windows open. 

8. What I saw at a model dairy. 

9. Some good health habits and how they may be formed. 

10. How I have improved in health through the practice of 
hygiene. 

11. The value of clean hands. 

12. Why athletes do not smoke. 

13. What our school has done to make the schoolhouse and 
grounds a better place in which to live. 

14. Why it is dangerous to drink from a spring. 

15. Why I keep my teeth clean. 

Free printed matter on health. So rapid, indeed, are the 
developments in the field of hygiene that many facts in even 
the advanced and recent textbooks become obsolete in a 
short time. The teacher who desires a broad background 
must depend on information beyond that found in the chil- 



112 HEALTH EDUCATION IN RURAL SCHOOLS 

dren's textbooks. Reference books for teachers are desirable, 
but not always available. Helpful libraries are often inac- 
cessible. Fortunately there is a large amount of reliable 
printed matter on health which can readily be gathered with 
little or no expense. As the vast majority of rural school 
teachers are possibly unaware of the existence of much of 
this material, the ease with which it can be secured, and the 
uses to which it may be put, a somewhat detailed discussion 
of "free materials" may prove helpful. 

The prospective teacher or the teacher in service will find 
it profitable to begin to collect pictures and printed matter 
on health at once. Much of it may be collected with ease. 
One source of supply within the reach of all teachers is the 
newspaper and popular magazine. While such material is 
not always authentic, much of it is valuable, and, if properly 
used, stimulating. The following magazines often have good 
articles on health: Good Housekeeping, Ladies' Home Jour- 
nal, The Woman's Home Companion, McClure's Magazine. 

If the school is to be efficient it should deal especially with 
the health problems of the pupils' own environment. A gen- 
eral observation on the part of the teacher, coupled with 
good sense, is worth while, but information more accurate 
scientifically is frequently available. The report of the local 
board of health is often printed and may be secured free by 
applying to the secretary of the board. Many of our State 
boards of health publish monthly bulletins which not only 
give a review of the conditions of their respective States, but 
often have popular scientific articles by health experts. All 
bulletins and reports of these State boards of health are free 
to all teachers. To be certain of getting these valuable bul- 
letins as soon as published, it would be well to write to the 
secretary of the State board of health stating that you are a 
teacher and ask to be put on the mailing list. Bulletins re- 
lating to health are often issued by the State boards of agri- 



PLANNING COURSE OF STUDY IN HYGIENE 113 

culture and the agricultural colleges. In practically every 
State the State boards of education now prepare bulletins on 
health for the special use of teachers. An investment of a 
few cents in postal cards will usually bring valuable returns 
in the form of many useful bulletins. These bulletins are 
likely to be broad in their scope, but they will invariably 
give information about epidemics, how prevented and con- 
trolled, the most recent advances in medical science; also 
many practical hints on how to keep well. 

Many valuable documents on health may also be secured 
free from the following bureaus and departments of the 
United States Government, Washington, D.C.: Bureau of 
Education, Department of Agriculture, Public Health Serv- 
ice, and the Department of Labor. A certain number of 
these pamphlets when first issued are free. When this free 
supply is exhausted, they may be purchased as long as they 
last for a nominal sum from the Superintendent of Docu- 
ments, Washington, D.C. A catalogue of these publications 
will be sent on application. These documents cover a very 
wide field, including such topics as child welfare, foods, pure 
milk, sewerage, flies, rats, mosquitoes, etc. 

In addition to these governmental sources of supply there 
are many medical societies, insurance companies, and other 
reliable concerns that publish bulletins on health which may 
be secured free or for a nominal sum. A list of the names and 
addresses of some of these organizations follows: 

Metropolitan Life Insurance Company, New York City. 

The International Harvester Company, Chicago. 

The American Social Hygiene Association, 105 W. Fortieth Street, New 

York City. 

The American Medical Association, Chicago. 
Boston Association for the Relief and Control of Tuberculosis, 4 Joy 

Street, Boston. 

Health Education League, 8 Beacon Street, Boston. 
Playground and Recreation Association of America, Madison Avenue 

New York City. 



114 HEALTH EDUCATION IN RURAL SCHOOLS 

American Society for the Control of Cancer, 289 Fourth Avenue, New 
York City. 

Bureau of Educational Experiments, 16 West Eighth Street, New York 
City. 

National Committee for the Prevention of Blindness, 130 East Twenty- 
second Street, New York City. 

American Picture League, Madison Avenue, New York City. 

The Health Education League of Boston, Massachusetts, 
publishes a number of booklets on health subjects which 
should be useful to teachers. They are untechnical in lan- 
guage, prepared by the very best authorities, and sold at 
nominal prices. A list of these publications follows: 

1. Hints for Health in Hot Weather. 2 cents; $1.50 per hundred. 

2. Milk. Charles Harrington, M.D. 3 cents; $1.50 per hundred. 

3. "Colds" and Their Prevention. 2 cents; $1.50 per hundred. 

4. Meat and Drink. Ellen H. Richards. 3 cents; $2.50 per hundred. 

5. Healthful Homes. 4 cents; $3 per hundred. 

6. The Successful Woman. William R. Woodbury, M.D. 4 cents; $2.50 
per hundred. 

7. The Boy and the Cigarette. H. Sterling Pomeroy, A.M., M.D. 5 cents; 
$3 per hundred. 

8. The Care of Little Children. R. W. Hastings, M.D. 4 cents; $3 per 
hundred. (Especially good for seventh- and eighth-grade girls.) 

9. The Plague of Mosquitoes and Flies. 4 cents; $3 per hundred. 

10. Tonics and Stimulants. Ellen H. Richards. 2 cents; $1.50 per hundred. 

11. Emergencies. Marshall H. Bailey, M.D. 10 cents; $6 per hundred. 

12. Microbes Good and Bad. Anne Rogers Winslow. 4 cents.; $3 per 
hundred. 

13. The Efficient Worker. Ellen H. Richards. 4 cents; $2.75 per hundred. 

14. Sexual Hygiene. By an experienced physician. 4 cents; $2.50 per 
hundred. 

15. Health in Labor Camps. 3 cents; $1.75 per hundred. 

16. Tuberculosis (Consumption). Edward O. Otis, M.D. 5 cents; $2.50 
per hundred. 

17. When to Call the Physician. George W. Gay, M.D. 4 cents; $2.50 per 
hundred. 

18. Habits of Health. Paul W. Goldsbury, M.D. 4 cents; $2.50 per hun- 
dred. 

19. Wastes and Their Disposal. Henry J. Barnes, M.D. 4 cents; $2.50 
per hundred. 

20. Typhoid Fever, Infection and Prevention. Mary Hinman Abel. 5 cents; 
$3 per hundred. 



PLANNING COURSE OF STUDY IN HYGIENE 115 

21. The Observance of Health Day in Schools. Thomas F. Harrington, M.D. 
4 cents; $2.50 per hundred. 

22. Industrial Hygiene. Prof. C. E. A. Winslow. 7 cents; $4.50 per 
hundred. 

23. Hygiene for Workers. Bulletin no. 1. 6 cents; $4 per hundred. 

24. Hygiene of Exercise. Anna Leonard Muzzey. 5 cents; $3 per hundred. 

25. Nerve Waste. George Van Ness Dearborn, M.D. 7 cents; $4.50 per 
hundred. 

Through the expenditure of a small sum for postage and 
a slight amount for some bulletins that are not free, the 
teacher will be able to keep abreast of the best thought on 
hygiene, and much of the material she will be able to use in 
the school. 

Pamphlets and illustrative material when collected by the 
teacher should be classified and manipulated so that they 
may be easily referred to. One of the best methods is to put 
materials into good-sized manilla envelopes labeling them 
"flies," "mosquitoes," "milk," etc. Every rural school 
should have a bulletin board 1 on which the children may be 
encouraged to fasten clippings, etc. 

When the teacher is about to take up a given topic, she 
will find it helpful to refer to her materials, to find illustra- 
tive material or possibly printed matter and tack it on the 
board. In connection with the discussion of the house fly, 
for example, there are many illustrations and terse sayings 
that children would find interesting. No matter what the 
character of the lesson, the teacher may find something in 
her envelopes to enrich the lesson. If the class is considering 
the danger of the contamination of the milk-supply, it 
should be a simple matter to refer to published data relating 
to the State or possibly the county or town in which the 
children live. Unless children are led to think of hygiene as 

1 If the schoolroom is without a bulletin board, the resourceful teacher 
may easily secure one that will answer the purpose temporarily. Ask the 
children to bring the largest pieces of cardboard they can find; fasten them 
to the wall. Let the children also provide tacks to fasten clippings. 



116 HEALTH EDUCATION IN RURAL SCHOOLS 

dealing with problems near at hand, they may get the idea 
that it does not especially concern them. 

A collection of materials referred to may also be useful in 
educating parents. If there are parent- teacher associations, 
the teacher may find plenty of material for talks or the par- 
ents may be invited to use the material. Every library of 
pamphlets should contain some useful information on child 
welfare. So far as possible the teacher should let the people 
of the community know that she has such material and en- 
courage them to make use of it. The teacher may find it 
profitable also to collect pamphlets on other topics such as 
agriculture. 1 

Planning a health day. In some States a day has been set 
apart by the legislature or by a proclamation of the Gover- 
nor for the special consideration of health problems. In 
Michigan, where this movement seems to be well under 
way, many towns make a special effort during this week to 
get lectures, exhibits, moving pictures, etc., to further the 
war against disease. The schools throughout the State are 
expected to do something distinctive on this day to further 
the cause. This is a splendid opportunity for the teacher to 
profit by this community enthusiasm and ambition. It is 
easier to give instruction in the schools when there is cordial 
approval of the teacher's efforts by those high in authority 
and by the community. The observance of this day by rural 
communities is likely to pass with little or no demonstration 
unless the teacher assumes leadership. Here is an unusual 
chance to educate children, parents, and the community. 
Whenever there is a State observance of "health day" or 
"health week," the teacher should make a special effort to 
do something effective, something that will involve the coop- 

1 Among the requirements for an approved rural school in Missouri is 
this, that the school library must contain at least fifty agricultural bulletins 
(free). 



PLANNING COURSE OF STUDY IN HYGIENE 117 

eration of the pupils and possibly of the parents. To make 
such a celebration worth while it would be wise to plan for it 
early in the year. Some way must be found to get parents 
to visit the school. If the teacher can get the children really 
interested, there will be no difficulty in getting parents and 
other members of the community to attend. One of the best 
ways to arouse interest is to get the children to do some- 
thing. There might be an exhibit of hygienic devices which 
the children have made, such as fly-traps, fly-" swatters," 
paper drinking-cups, etc. Then the free publications care- 
fully classified might be arranged for inspection. Some of the 
children might act as guides for visitors. If they are allowed 
to wear ribbons or badges, it will add to the interest. The 
school-grounds should be clean and orderly. There might 
also be some kind of program. Games, dances, and gym- 
nastic exercises are always appreciated by older people. 
Some of the children could read essays telling about the 
progress the school had made in matters of health and what 
it was trying to accomplish. Many of the health records 
and essays might be exhibited on the wall. Some of these 
essays would probably be accepted for publication in a local 
newspaper. Such a public occasion would be stimulating 
and educative for pupils and community. It would be neces- 
sary, of course, to modify the program from year to year. 
In anticipation of such an event, the work of the school in 
hygiene might have a little different emphasis each year. 
The course of study needs to be flexible enough to permit 
necessary changes. 

Textbooks for children. Usually the teacher is compelled 
to use the textbooks in physiology and hygiene that are 
found in the school, regardless of their merit. Many of these 
books are likely to be old and pedagogically unsound. The 
emphasis may be put on anatomy and physiology to the ex- 
clusion of the most vital topics in hygiene. If the teacher 



118 HEALTH EDUCATION IN RURAL SCHOOLS 

stays long enough in a particular school to gain the confi- 
dence of the school board, she will be able to change these 
books. This ought to be done eventually by all means, but 
at the beginning she will find it necessary to get along as best 
she can. The progressive teacher will not follow a textbook 
slavishly just because it has been adopted and used. The 
most unprogressive textbook in use is likely to have certain 
chapters or paragraphs that can be used; the remainder of 
the book may be disregarded. The teacher should plan her 
course so as to emphasize the most important matters in 
health. Possibly the school board might be induced to buy 
a few reference books for the school. But no matter what 
the situation may be, the teacher will find enough concrete 
problems connected with the schoolhouse and grounds and 
the habits of children to do excellent work. She may wait 
until later for the textbooks. 

The textbooks chosen should be simple in language, inter- 
esting to children, and devoted to practical health problems 
with only such reference to physiology and anatomy as is 
necessary to understand the hygiene. Some excellent books 
are now on the market. The following series are especially 
commendable : 

Woods Hutchinson Health Series. Houghton Mifflin Company, Boston. 

Gulick Hygiene Series. Ginn & Co., Boston. 

Crampton's Hygiene Series. American Book Co., New York, Chicago. 

O'Shea and Kellogg Health Series in Physiology and Hygiene. The 
Macmillan Co., New York. 

New World Health Series. World Book Co., Yonkers-on-Hudson, New 
York. 

Wiley's Health Series. Rand, McNally Co., New York. 

Unfortunately there is at this time no book on hygiene for 
children dealing especially with rural health problems. 

Supplementary books for children. It is quite exceptional 
to find supplementary books in hygiene in rural schools, but 
there is no question as to their usefulness. Frequently they 



PLANNING COURSE OF STUDY IN HYGIENE 119 

cover many topics not found in the regular textbooks, and 
although they may cover much of the same ground, the 
points of view, style, illustrations, etc., will be different so as 
to broaden and deepen the interest of the reader. Supple- 
mentary books should be placed on a reference shelf where 
they are readily accessible. The following books, 1 some of 
which have already been recommended in textbook series, 
would prove useful as supplementary books: 

1. George O. Bussey. Manual of Personal Hygiene. Ginn & Co., Boston, 
1917. 

Presents concisely the fundamental facts that children ought to know about hygiene. 
Suggestive for both teachers and children. 

2. Walter Moore Coleman. The Handbook of the People's Health. The 
Macmillan Co., New York; pp. 307. 

General hygiene, profusely illustrated, attractive style, refers to rural hygiene. 

3. Charlotte Vetter Gulick. Emergencies. Ginn & Co., Boston; pp. 173. 

Tells just what to do in every ordinary kind of emergency. Invaluable in every 
rural school. 

4. Woods Hutchinson. The Child's Day. Houghton Mifflin Co., Boston; 
pp. 184. 

An excellent book on general hygiene for younger children. 

5. Woods Hutchinson. Community Hygiene. Houghton Mifflin Co., 
Boston; pp. 310. 

Shows how a helpful and cooperative spirit is the mark of good citizenship. 

6. Woods Hutchinson. A Handbook of Health. Houghton Mifflin Co., 
Boston; pp. 348. 

7. Frances Gulick Jewett. Good Health. Ginn & Co., Boston; pp. 174. 

Attractive book for little children. 

8. Kinne and Cooley. Clothing and Health. The Macmillan Co., New 
York. 

9. Kinne and Cooley. Food and Health. The Macmillan Co., New York. 

10. Kinne and Cooley. The Home and the Family. The Macmillan Co.. 
New York. 

A series of books on home-making. Invaluable for pupils and teachers. 

1 At the present time the prices of standard books fluctuate so that they 
cannot be definitely indicated. Books in the list recommended for children 
will cost from 50 cents to $1,00; those for teachers, from $1.00 to $1.50. 



120 HEALTH EDUCATION IN RURAL SCHOOLS 

11. H.H.Moore. Keeping in Condition. The Macmillan Co., New York; 
pp. 137. 

An excellent book on general hygiene for boys. Answers many questions about 
sex that boys are asking. 

12. Josephine Morris. Household Series and Arts. American Book Co., 
New York; pp. 248. 

A brief, simple, practical book on domestic science. 

13. O'Shea and Kellogg. Health Habits. The Macmillan Co., New York; 
pp. 213. 

A simple and direct presentation of the need of health habits and a detailed dis- 
cussion of a large number of habits. Very good. 

14. T. Mitchell Prudden. Drinking Water and Ice Supplies. G. P. Put- 
nam's Sons, New York; pp. 111. 

Tells of the conditions necessary for pure ice. For older children. Illustrated. 

15. Florence Harvey Richards, M.D. Hygiene for Girls. D. C. Heath & 
Co., Boston; pp. 257. 

An excellent book on hygiene for girls with a chapter on the physiology of the 
reproductive system. 

16. John W. Ritchie. Primer of Sanitation. World Book Co., Yonkers-on- 
Hudson, New York; pp. 216. 

An unusually good book on disease germs and how to fight them. Ought to be 
in every school either as a textbook or reference book. 

17. John W. Ritchie and J. S. Caldwell. Primer of Hygiene. World Book 
Co., Yonkers-on-Hudson, New York; pp. 200. 

Designed to teach the lower-grade pupil what he himself can do to keep his body 
in health. An interesting little manual on personal hygiene. 

18. Arland D. Weeks. The Avoidance of Fires. D. C. Heath & Co., Bos- 
ton; pp. 128. 

Designed primarily for the use of city children, but contains many helpful sug- 
gestions for children in rural schools. 

19. C. E. A. Winslow. Healthy Living. Chas. E. Merrill Co., New York. 

One of the best of modern textbooks for older children. 

Reference books for teachers. The teacher who wishes to 
achieve a marked success in her profession will form the 
habit of reading the latest and best books bearing on her 
work. If the teacher has access to a large city library during 
the year, she will be able to read many desirable books. 
Such an opportunity is, however, lacking to the majority of 
rural school-teachers. Few school boards as yet seem dis- 



PLANNING COURSE OF STUDY IN HYGIENE 121 

posed to buy such books for their teachers. The teacher who 
wishes to keep abreast of the best thought in regard to health 
will plan to invest money for a few professional books each 
year. One of these books ought to be a good book on prac- 
tical health problems. Any of the following books will prove 
useful: 

1. Ayres, Williams, Wood. Healthful Schools. Houghton Mifflin Co., 
Boston. 

An excellent book on the hygiene and sanitation of the school plant. 

2. Jessie H. Bancroft. The Posture of School-Children. The Macmillan 
Co., New York; pp. 322. 

Almost indispensable to the teacher who intends to correct the bad habits of posture 
of her pupils. 

3. Jessie H. Bancroft. Games for the Playground, Home, School, and Gym" 
nasium. The Macmillan Co., New York; pp. 455. 

The kind of book for the teacher who expects to teach boys and girls the best 



4. Isaac Williams Brewer. Rural Hygiene. J. B. Lippincott Co., Phila- 
delphia; pp. 227. 

An interesting treatment of the health problems of the country. 

5. Henry S. Curtis. Play and Recreation for the Open Country. Ginn & 
Co., Boston; pp. 265. 

Special consideration of the problems of rural recreation. One part devoted to the 
play of the Rural School. Illustrated. Excellent. 

6. Fletcher B. Dresslar. School Hygiene. The Macmillan Co., New York; 
pp. 369. 

Particularly good on the sanitation of the school plant. 

7. Fisher and Fisher. How to Live. Funk & Wagnalls. New York; 
pp. 345. 

A superior book on personal hygiene written by experts. 

8. T. W. Galloway. Biology of Sex, for Parents and Teachers. D. C. 
Heath & Co., Boston; pp. 105. 

A temperate discussion of sex hygiene. 

9. Luther H. Gulick. The Efficient Life. Doubleday, Page & Co., New 
York; pp. 195. 

Personal hygiene, attractive style, carries conviction. 

10. Hough and Sedgwick. The Human Mechanism. Ginn & Co., Boston; 
pp. 564. 
Excellent reference for general physiology and hygiene. 



122 HEALTH EDUCATION IN RURAL SCHOOLS 

11. Woods Hutchinson. Preventable Diseases. Houghton Mifflin Co., 
Boston; pp. 442. 

Popular, interesting, profitable for general reading. 

12. W. W. Keen. Medical Research and Human Welfare. Houghton Mifflin 
Co., Boston; pp. 160. 

A fascinating story of the achievements of preventive medicine in the last fifty years. 
Contains much material which the teacher could use. 

13. Lewis M. Terman. The Hygiene of the School Child. Houghton Mifflin 
Co., Boston; pp. 417. 

Latest information on the health of the school child. 

14. Lewis M. Terman. Health Work in the Schools. Houghton Mifflin Co., 
Boston; pp. 321. 

Contains helpful matter for the grade teacher. 

15. Francis M. Walters. The Principles of Health Control. D. C. Heath & 
Co., Boston; pp. 476. 

Differs from usual textbooks in hygiene in emphasizing corrective work. Full of 
excellent suggestions for teachers. 

16. George Lincoln Walton. Why Worry? J. B. Lippincott Co., Phila- 
delphia; pp. 269. 

A popular and interesting treatment of a bad habit. Useful for any teacher, a help- 
ful book to lend. 

Other health problems connected with the course of 
study. This book does not attempt to plan the work in 
hygiene grade by grade. In the chapters that follow, how- 
ever, the author has tried to call attention to the most sig- 
nificant health problems, and also to suggest ways in which 
these problems might be solved. In the last chapter (chap- 
ter XVII) an effort has been made to present in a nutshell 
the scope of health education, to evaluate the different kinds 
of health work so that the teacher may plan for definite re- 
sults and pass judgment on the worth of her results. 

CLASS EXERCISES 

1. Make a study of the sanitation of some rural school and community. 
How would such information influence the content of any course of 
study you might make out? 

2. Following the suggestions given in connection with the course of study 



PLANNING COURSE OF STUDY IN HYGIENE 123 

outlined for the fourth grade on page 95, plan work for the other 
grades or classes for a year. 

3. Examine a series of children's textbooks in hygiene and in a written 
view of about one thousand words give your opinion with reasons 
as to whether they would be useful as textbooks for children in the 
rural schools. 

4. Compare two series of textbooks as to content, method, and probable 
usefulness. 

5. Make out a list of free publications in hygiene which you have found 
to be most useful. 

6. What other books not mentioned on page would you suggest as sup- 
plementary books for children? 

7. What examples of ideal health conditions do you find in your com- 
munity or in the community studied? What field trips or excursions 
relating to health would be advisable? 

8. Make out a definite program for the celebration of a health day in a 
rural school. 

9. Make a supplementary list of topics suitable for compositions on 
health for grades 4-8, inclusive. 

10. Write to your state board of health for free publications on the public 
health. 

11. Look over all the magazines available to find illustrations which 
might be useful in teaching. Explain just how you would use them. 



CHAPTER VII 

THE WATER-SUPPLY AND SEWERAGE 

Studies of the water-supply of farms both in Canada and the 
United States, show that sixty per cent of the wells are polluted 
with house and barnyard drainage. (Dr. Charles E. North.) 

WATER is not technically a food, but it is an essential 
article of diet and a necessity for the proper cleanliness of 
person, clothing, and things. Because water is so plentifully 
and universally used by man and is contaminated with such 
ease, a pure water-supply is of fundamental importance to 
the health of any community. This problem cannot be 
solved, as this chapter will attempt to show, without secur- 
ing proper sewerage. 

The water-supply in the country inferior to that of cities. 
In the city the individual householder has little responsibil- 
ity for the purity of the water-supply, as it is under the man- 
agement of the municipal authorities. In the country, how- 
ever, the situation is much different. The local boards of 
health and town and county authorities exercise little or no 
supervision over such matters. Every householder gets his 
own water as he sees fit, and upon his individual intelligence 
and care rests very often the health of the family and of the 
community. The surveys that have been made show that 
the majority of wells in rural districts are infected. This is 
doubtless one of the chief reasons why the death-rate tends 
to be higher in the country, for wherever the water-supply 
of cities has been improved, there is a notable decrease in 
the mortality, especially from typhoid. The elimination 
of wells from villages and the introduction of an improved 
water-supply inevitably lead to a more healthy community. 



THE WATER-SUPPLY AND SEWERAGE 125 

The menace to health from shallow wells, 1 springs, and 
insanitary privies. It is not pleasant to contemplate, but 
unfortunately it is true, that a large proportion of sickness 
and death is a result of taking into the body through the 

1 " The Old Oaken Bucket " has a place among our fond recollections, 
but it seems necessary to revise our sentiments somewhat to see it in re- 
lation to health. The following poem may seem a little extreme but there 
are many wells in America, although they are rapidly decreasing in num- 
ber, that answer to this description: 

THE OLD OAKEN BUCKET 

AS SEEN FROM A SANITARY POINT OF VlEW 

(From Bulletin of Kansas State Board of Health.) 
With what anguish of mind I remember my childhood. 
Recalled in the light of a knowledge since gained; 
The malarial farm, the wet, fungus-grown wildwood, 
The chills there contracted that since have remained. 
The scum-covered duck-pond, the pig-sty close by it; 
The place where the sour-smelling house-drainage fell; 
The hut of my father, the barn-yard just nigh it, 
But worse than all else was the horrible smell. 

Refrain : The old oaken bucket, 
The iron-bound bucket, 
The moss-covered bucket. 
That hung in the well. 

Just think of it! Moss on the vessel that lifted 

The water 1 drank in the days called to mind, 

Ere I learned what professors and scientists gifted 

In water of wells by analysis find. 

The rotting wood fiber, the oxide of iron; 

The algae and toads of unusual size; 

The water impure as the verses of Byron, 

Are things I remember with tears in my eyes. 

Refrain. 

How little I thought of the typhoid fever 
That lurked in the water I ventured to drink; 
But since I've become a devoted believer 
In teachings of science, I shudder to think. 



126 HEALTH EDUCATION IN RURAL SCHOOLS 

mouth human filth that has come directly or indirectly from 
some person who has or has had disease. Among the well- 
known diseases spread by human excrement are typhoid 
fever, dysentery, Asiatic cholera, tuberculosis, hookworm 
disease, and round-worm, eelworm, and tapeworm diseases. 
Germs of disease from human filth may be spread by flies 
and other insects, or by the water of an infected well, or 
by people who are negligent about washing then* hands 
after coming from the toilet. One finds too often in the 
country a well which admits surface water in close prox- 
imity to a privy that pollutes the soil and contaminates 
the water of the well. Often, too, the drinking-water may 
be drawn from a spring or brook that contains drainage 
from some house or town. 

The literature on the spread of disease is replete with il- 
lustrations of the dangers from infected wells. The investi- 
gation of a recent typhoid epidemic in Lansing, Michigan, l 
is interesting in this connection. A careful study was made 
of each case of typhoid reported. The conclusion was 
reached that it was not a milk-borne epidemic, as there was 
no great incidence of cases on the route of any one dairyman, 

Perhaps I had boiled and afterward strained it 
Through filters of charcoal and gravel combined, 
And after distilling, condensed and regained it 
In potable form with its filth left behind. 

Refrain. 

And now far removed from the scene I'm describing, 
Emotions of grief large as tea-kettles swell; 
My memory reverts to my youthful imbibing, 
And 1 gag at the thought of that horrible well. 

Refrain. 

1 Charles F. Lynch, M.D. "The Typhoid Epidemic in Lansing," Public 
Health, Lansing, Michigan. 



THE WATER-SUPPLY AND SEWERAGE 



127 



and many of the cases had not used milk except as it had 
been obtained from cans for use in tea and coffee. A very 
careful analysis of the city water showed an entire absence 




FIG. 11. POLLUTION OF A SHALLOW WELL BY SEEPAGE OF EXCRETA 

DEPOSITED IN A PlT PRIVY 

(Slightly modified from Minnesota State Board of Health. Courtesy of U.S. Public 
Health Service. From Public Health Bulletin No. 68.) 

of bacterial contamination. The vast majority of the cases 
occurred in families that did not obtain their water from the 
city mains. The city of Lansing is divided into an east and 
west section by Washington Avenue. In the section west of 
Washington Avenue the homes are practically all supplied 
with city water. The sanitary conditions in this portion of 
the city are good. Outside closets and surface wells were 
almost entirely abandoned. In the territory east of Wash- 
ington Avenue several hundred surface wells were still found 
in use and probably close to one thousand outside closets 
were still maintained. These outside closets were in a bad 
condition. In no case was a closet adequately screened from 
flies. In few instances had any of these closets been recently 



128 HEALTH EDUCATION IN RURAL SCHOOLS 

cleaned and in many cases the vaults were practically filled 
to overflowing. Stables, large manure-piles, and an abun- 
dance of flies were to be seen in practically every block. An 
analysis of the water in many of these wells showed that 
many of them were badly contaminated. The results of this 
investigation indicated that contaminated wells, outside 
privies, and flies were responsible for the typhoid epidemic. 

The epidemic at Lansing is typical of a great many 
throughout the country. The dangers from the shallow 
well, and the insanitary privy, both of which abound in 
country regions, are obvious. While the safe disposal of filth 
and the securing of pure water-supply are more difficult in 
the country than in the city, they are solvable problems. 

In many States, especially in most of the Southern States, 
the lack of a proper disposal of bowel discharges is respon- 
sible for the hookworm disease, that most prevalent, most 
insidiously harmful, and most preventable disease known to 
humanity. The hookworm disease is due to the presence in 
the bowels of many small worms, called "hookworms," 
which cause the blood of the person who has them to become 
so thin and watery that it cannot nourish the bones and 
muscles as it should. Hookworm disease stunts the growth 
of children, saps their vitality, and makes them backward in 
school. A person who has the disease spreads it by allowing 
the bowel discharges to fall upon the ground for lack of a 
privy or by using one which is not properly made. These 
worms may enter the body by swallowing them in water or 
food that has been contaminated, but ordinarily they get in 
by boring through the skin with which they come in contact. 
Going barefoot over polluted soil is the method whereby the 
disease is usually contracted. Dr. Ferrell 1 says that in some 
rural schools investigated the records show "an average in- 

1 John A. Ferrell. The Rural School and Hookworm Disease. United 
States Bureau of Education, Bulletin No. 20, 1914. 



THE WATER-SUPPLY AND SEWERAGE 129 

fection among rural children of school age for whole counties 
running as high as seventy to ninety per cent. . . . The gen- 
eral average for all the children examined to date is forty 
per cent of infection." Yet this disease, which is so disas- 
trous to the mental and physical condition of thousands of 
people, may be easily prevented by the construction and use 
of sanitary privies. 1 

Insanitary conditions of the farm reproduced in the rural 
school, (a) The school privy. The deplorably insanitary 
method of disposing of human filth on the average farm is 
duplicated in the rural schools; for a community that is not 
sensitive about home sanitation is likely to be negligent of 
the sanitation of its schools. A joint committee of the Na- 
tional Council of Education and the American Medical As- 
sociation report that less than five per cent of the toilets of 
one hundred and nine rural schools examined in Connecti- 
cut, New York, Vermont, Maryland, and New Jersey are 
sanitary or even passably decent. Dr. Dresslar, in his inval- 
uable bulletin, Rural Schoolhouses and Grounds (United 
States Bureau of Education, Bulletin No. 585), describes 
one of these privies investigated: 

One privy, typical of many, was fairly new, and the schoolhouse 
was not old. The privy was within three feet of the schoolhouse. 
When examined in the summer of 1913 by the field agent of the 
joint committee, the privy was used by both boys and girls; it 
had no partition; the door had no lock. Eleven obscene pictures 
were found on the inside. The feces fell on the surface of the ground 
and were exposed to flies; there was an offensive odor; and appar- 
ently no attempt was made to clean, deodorize, or disinfect the 
building. Many worse privies than this were found. 

1 Every teacher who wishes to find out the details as to how hookworm, 
is contracted should write to the Rockefeller Foundation, New York City, 
for the free illustrated booklet, The Story of a Boy Who Did Not Grow Up 
to be a Tall Strong Mart, or to the Metropolitan Life Insurance Company, 
New York City, for another free illustrated booklet, Hookworm Disease 
and How ty Prevent It. 



130 HEALTH EDUCATION IN RURAL SCHOOLS 

The results of this investigation are similar to those re- 
vealed by every survey of rural schools. There is one thing 
that makes a school even more dangerous than a home : it is 
a center by which disease may be disseminated throughout 
an entire community. Suppose, for example, that there is a 
district in which, by chance, there is no hookworm disease. 
The disease may be brought in by some of the children who 
have contracted the disease during a vacation in an infected 
region. Even a single case, if brought to a school where there 
was a lack of toilet facilities or an insanitary privy, might be 
the means of infecting an entire school and neighborhood. 

Not only is the rural-school privy insanitary, but in many 
schools there are no toilet facilities at all. Such conditions 
were found in the survey of Porter County, Indiana, and in 
investigations in other States. This situation is due, of 
course, to the unhygienic habits of the home. The Rocke- 
feller Sanitary Commission found as a result of a survey of 
103,346 farmhouses in eleven Southern States that 50,637 of 
them have no privies at all. The danger from such procedure 
either at home or at school is incalculable. Soil polluted with 
human excrement may be carried on the feet of poultry, 
dogs, cats, rats, etc., to the well-top, the spring-bank, the 
yard where the children play, or into the kitchen, dining- 
room, or other parts of a private dwelling. Flies breed in 
such filth and infect everything they touch. Similar dangers 
confront the child in school who is forced to live in such 
surroundings. 

(b) The school water-supply. It is seldom that the water- 
supply of a school is examined by a pathologist to determine 
its fitness for drinking purposes, but wherever this has been 
done the results are far from satisfactory. The source of the 
supply varies. Sometimes it is brought from the well of a 
neighboring farmhouse, from a near-by spring, or from a 
school well. Dr. Dresslar quotes in the above-mentioned 



THE WATER-SUPPLY AND SEWERAGE 131 

bulletin a letter from Dr. Kernachan, health officer of 
Lauderdale County, Alabama, as follows: 

In making a survey of the rural school-children of this country 
recently, I collected a sample of the water supplied to each school. 
An examination of these specimens by the State pathologist reveals 
the fact that nineteen out of the twenty collected contained fecal 
matter. 

Whatever the source of supply, results like these show a 
neglect of the most elementary principles of sanitation. 

William J. Bray, 1 who directed a sanitary survey of the 
rural schools in twenty-six counties in the State of Missouri 
tells this harrowing story of the water supply: 

Forty-two per cent have a living well as a source of water- 
supply; fifty-five per cent use a cistern, while three per cent use 
water from a spring. In seventy-seven per cent of the cases the 
water-supply is located on the school-grounds. Six out of ten 
schools have their water-supply within ten feet of the schoolhouse, 
while five per cent of the schools have to go more than five hundred 
feet for water. Forty-eight per cent of the teachers consider that 
their water-supply is not of unquestionable purity. The drinking 
fountain is found in twenty-five per cent of the schoolhouses, 
though in many cases the so-called drinking-fountain is merely a 
water-container with a faucet. The individual drinking-cup is 
used in sixty-four per cent of the schools, while the common drink- 
ing-cup is still passing the germs around in thirty-six per cent of 
the schools. The common bucket is used in thirty-nine per cent 
of the schools. More than one third of the wells and cisterns have 
board tops, while one sixth of them are so walled up that mice, 
rats, snakes and rabbits could get into the well or cistern. Only 
a few months ago a sample of water from one of these wells was 
sent to my laboratory for analysis. Upon my recommendation the 
well was cleaned out, and about two hundred snakes were found 
in the well. In another exactly similar case the well was found to 
have five dead rabbits in it. It is distressing to think of the many 
wells in school-yards the country over that are probably thus 

1 William J. Bray. A Practical Application of School Surveys. Proceed- 
ings, American School Hygiene Association, vol. vi (1916), pp. 167-73. 



132 HEALTH EDUCATION IN RURAL SCHOOLS 

polluted, and no one takes sufficient intelligent interest to ascer- 
tain their suitability for drinking purposes. Eighty-six per cent 
of the cisterns are without any filters whatever. 

Requirements for sanitary privy. If the outhouse is to be 
absolutely safe, it should be rigidly screened against flies, 
there should be a water-tight receptacle for the contents 




FIG. 12. A STATIONARY-RECEPTACLE SANITARY PRIVY WITH A CEMENT 

VAULT ARRANGED FOR CONVENIENT CLEANING. (ORIGINAL.) 
(Courtesy of U.S. Public Health Service. From Public Health Bulletin No. 68.) 

which should be frequently disposed of, and those who use 
the toilet should have cleanly habits. The ordinary school 
toilet in the rural schools has none of these qualifications. 
Usually it is a pit privy. This is essentially a hole in the 
ground over which the privy-house is built and into which 
the excreta are deposited. It may be open at the back so 
that it is freely exposed to flies and not far from the school- 
house or well. When the pit becomes so full that it is me- 
chanically impossible to use it for the purpose for which it 
was intended, a new pit may be dug and the building moved 
or the pit may be cleaned out. 



THE WATER-SUPPLY AND SEWERAGE 133 

While there is a possibility of a pit privy being built and 
managed with a minimum of danger, absolute safety cannot 
be guaranteed, especially when the schoolhouse is located 
on a small lot. There is always danger of contaminating the 
water-supply. Many rules have been given for regulating 
the distance from the privy to the well; but no general rule 
can be formulated because of the differences in the character 
of the soil and the dip of the impervious substratum of rock. 
For example, when there is a sandy soil with the underlying 
impervious rock dipping toward the well, pollution would 
be possible through a long distance, particularly in rainy 
weather. But if there were a clay soil with the impervious 
substrata dipping in the opposite direction, the well might 
be secure from infiltration even if the cesspool were a com- 
paratively short distance from the well. The pit privy is 
particularly dangerous in marshy soil or limestone regions. 

Space does not permit a detailed discussion of the different 
kinds of sanitary privies and the advantages and disadvan- 
tages of each. For such information the reader should con- 
sult some of the references given at the end of this chapter. 
Public Health Bulletin No. 68 says this concerning the dis- 
posal of the contents of the outhouse: 

The removal and final disposal of the contents of a privy is 
necessary to keep a privy sanitary. This requires more work than 
does either the construction or the up-keep of the privy itself. 
It must be done systematically. People generally and particu- 
larly those who do not understand the importance of the work 
do not like to handle the material. Privies may be so constructed 
that final disposal occurs automatically through pipes which 
carry the overflow to the subsoil in such a way as to be safe or 
relatively so: or the receptacle can be made large enough (as a 
vault) so that it need not be emptied more than once a year; or it 
may be large enough (as a barrel) so that it need not be emptied 
more than once a month, if the family is not too large; l or it may 

1 This bulletin was intended for homes, but, the principles set forth apply 
equally to schools. 



134 HEALTH EDUCATION IN RURAL SCHOOLS 

be of a size (as a pail) that requires emptying every week or every 
day according to the circumstances. 

Requirements for sanitary water-supply. There is still a 
tradition among many people that water must be healthful 
if it is reasonably clear and palatable. They think that a 
well or spring is satisfactory if it meets those conditions. 
The truth is that neither the color of the water nor its taste 
is any sure indication of its purity; for even the clearest and 
most delicious water may be contaminated. Gerhard's ob- 
servations here are especially interesting. He says: 

Polluted well water is rendered more dangerous by the fact that 
it often has a bright, sparkling and clear appearance, and that in 
summer time it has a low temperature, making it particularly 
agreeable as a beverage. Only a chemical, microscopic and biologi- 
cal analysis can reveal its unwholesome condition. 1 

It is important to remember, however, that the possession 
of an original source of pure water does not insure its being 
conveyed to the consumer undefiled. On the ordinary farm 
or in the school-yard, even after the water is assuredly free 
of drainage from cesspools and is chemically fitted for use, 
there is a possibility of its being infected by the way it is 
kept, brought to the surface, and finally distributed to the 
members of a family or the pupils of a school. A single per- 
son may endanger the health of a family, school, or com- 
munity by infecting a neglected well. Such a person might 
have the germs of typhoid or some other disease on his hands 
or shoes. He may handle the bucket of the well or drop some 
of the scrapings from his shoes into the well. In this way the 
life of every person who drinks the water is threatened. 
Even after the water is safely conveyed to some clean recep- 
tacle, disease may be transferred to somebody else through a 
common drinking-cup. 

1 Wm. Paul Gerhard. The Sanitation, Water-Supply, and Sewerage Dis- 
posal of Country Houses. Nostrand Co., New York. 




O ' 







I 



THE WATER-SUPPLY AND SEWERAGE 135 

Dr. Bailey, in his sanitary inspection of the rural schools 
of East Tennessee and Northern Georgia, found many of the 
sources of drinking-water unprotected a condition quite 
typical probably among rural schools. I quote from his 
report: 1 

Drinking-water was supplied from dug and driven wells and 
springs, the most common source being the dug well, which as a 
rule is shallow, rarely exceeding thirty feet in depth. Most of the 
springs were unprotected from surface drainage or animal pollu- 
tion and were not fenced off to prevent their use by cattle. While 
a number of the wells were brick or concrete, with concrete covers 
hi good repair, the large majority of them were loosely covered 
with boards, usually in a bad state of repair and without troughs, 
allowing refuse water to drain freely into the well. 

According to all sanitary surveys of farms and rural 
schools, keeping the water-supply pure is a serious problem. 
This may be accomplished according to the Virginia Health 
Bulletin (vol. EX, no. 6, June, 1917) by looking after these 
things: 

1. The mouth of the well should be raised at least one foot 
above the surrounding soil. This may be done by elevating the 
wall to that height and sodding the soil around it, or it may be 
done by putting in a core of concrete around the top of the well 
in the manner shown hi the illustration opposite page 134. 

2. That part of the well extending above the ground must be 
so constructed that no water can wash through it into the well. 

3. The surface of the well must be covered with an absolutely 
waterproof flooring which will extend beyond the edge of the well. 
Tongue-and-groove lumber, well set, answers this purpose and 
will give ample protection in that it will prevent any filth on the 
top of the well from getting into the water. 

4. A pump fitting closely into the well should be installed. 
Where a pump cannot be had, there should be a windlass with 
an automatic tipping device, so that neither the bucket nor the 
chain need ever come in contact with human hands. An open well, 
when not in use, should be covered with a hinged top. 

1 Reprint No. 237 from the Public Health Reports. 



136 HEALTH EDUCATION IN RURAL SCHOOLS 

Where a spring is used, its location is a matter of prime impor- 
tance. No spring located on a grade below a stable or a privy 
should be used as a source of drinking-water. In addition : 

1. A ditch should be dug around the spring on the grade above 
it so that no water can wash into the spring from this grade. The 
ditch should run completely around the spring and connect on 
either side with the branch. 

2. The spring-branch should be kept clear so that water cannot 
flow back into the spring. 

3. The spring should be fenced in so that no animals can have 
access to it. 

4. No bucket or other vessel should be dipped into the spring. 
Either have a separate vessel to dip water from the spring or else 
have a trough or pipe to carry the water from the spring to the 
bucket. 

Neglect by teacher and school officials. Lack of informa- 
tion about the seriousness of the conditions found in our 
rural schools and a dislike on the part of human nature to 
change a customary way of doing a thing are doubtless re- 
sponsible in part for the almost complete indifference to 
problems of sewerage and water-supply on the part of teach- 
ers and school officials. There is still another reason. Both 
teachers and members of school boards hesitate to grapple 
with such problems because they are disagreeable and some- 
what "beneath them." As long as such a spirit is abroad the 
possibility of making the country a cleaner and more whole- 
some place to live in is remote. 

The responsibility of the teacher. Many a teacher no 
doubt tries to shift the responsibility by saying to herself 
that she is paid to teach school and not to look after such 
matters, which are properly the business of the school board. 
The indifference of school officials to insanitary conditions 
is notorious, but that does not excuse the teacher from doing 
something to improve conditions. The teacher with a true 
professional spirit will seek to elevate the rural community 
and to afford better protection to the health of the children 



THE WATER-SUPPLY AND SEWERAGE 137 

in school. The teacher who begins work in a rural school, 
where there is a filthy and indecent outhouse possibly in 
close proximity to the well, but is too nice to instruct the 
children as to the dangers of infection from human excre- 
ment or to lead the community to want to better condi- 
tions, is neglecting one of the greatest educational oppor- 
tunities; for unless the children can get the proper attitude 
toward such problems while in school and do something 
themselves to better conditions, there is no possibility of 
their making their own homes more hygienic. The school* 
so far as possible must present models of hygiene and 
sanitation. 

What the teacher may do. The problem of doing anything 
to improve the general conditions in a school or community 
may at first seem insuperable. It is absurd, of course, to ex- 
pect that any teacher remaining for a year or a few months 
in a rural school where conditions are bad, will be able to get 
ideal results; but it is the conviction of the writer that if 
every teacher will attack such problems with vim and do 
what she can leaving the rest to her successor there 
will be within a few years a marked improvement in both 
rural schools and communities. The longer a teacher stays 
in the same school the greater will be the opportunity to 
gain permanent results. 

It now remains for us to suggest what the teacher may do. 
Let us suppose that you are just beginning your work in a 
school where the sewerage and water-supply are not of the 
best. If you have courage, energy, tact, and a high concep- 
tion of the need and importance of this kind of education, 
you may do some of these things: 

(1) See that children are informed as to the danger of insani- 
tary outhouses and wells. One reason for the indifference of 
children to insanitary and unhygienic conditions is igno- 
rance of well-established facts. As has been said before, in 



138 HEALTH EDUCATION IN RURAL SCHOOLS 

previous pages, the teacher, instead of planning her course 
of study for a year according to a textbook, may let the 
pressing health problems of the school be the starting-point 
and may make use of the textbooks as a support. The study 
of the water-supply will necessarily bring up questions as to 
its usefulness in the diet, how it may be contaminated and 
how it may carry disease. The dangers from human waste 
and its proper disposal will necessarily come up. In regions 
where hookworm disease abounds children should be in- 
structed as to its nature, ways of spreading, consequences, 
and prevention. The teacher may find it hard to talk about 
such matters, but if she will first of all convince herself that 
to ignore them is a false kind of modesty and cannot be de- 
fended from the standpoint of good judgment and common 
sense, she will find it less difficult. While such matters 
should be handled tactfully and with well-chosen language, 
they should come out simply and naturally in connection 
with the instruction given. Textbooks should be used if they 
throw light on these problems. 

(2) Discuss with children the sanitation of school privy and 
well. The general discussion of these problems should lead 
naturally to the concrete problems of the school. It would 
be better probably to take up these matters separately with 
boys and girls. If there is a separate privy for boys and girls, 
that of the boys will usually be the more filthy. The ques- 
tion proposed should be this: Are we doing all we can to 
make our outhouses and well sanitary? The children should 
be asked point-blank whether they are satisfied to have a 
filthy privy which is a menace to health and something they 
might be ashamed of if visitors came. The teacher might 
also discuss with them what they thought they could do and 
what they were willing to do to make privy and well more 
sanitary. It is only by such methods of cooperation that 
results can be obtained. The making of rules and regulations 



THE WATER-SUPPLY AND SEWERAGE 139 

and trying to force children to obey them will arouse the 
antagonism of children and community. 

(3) Secure cooperation of pupils to make privy more sani- 
tary. If pupils are approached in the right spirit there will 
be little difficulty about getting them to cooperate. Usually 
a crying need in the care of the outhouse is cleanliness. It is 
not uncommon to go into an outhouse and find the seats so 
covered with excrement that they cannot be used with com- 
fort, thus leading the children to postpone their visits as 
long as possible thereby interfering with the habit of 
evacuating the bowels regularly and so laying the basis for 
constipation. Often the privy may be avoided entirely and 
human filth be deposited in unseemly places. If it is used, 
there is danger of soiling the hands or tracking filth on the 
shoes into schoolhouse or to the rickety platform of the 
well. Often when a school board is asked to have the out- 
house cleaned they reply that it is useless, as the children 
will not keep it so. To offset this possible objection the chil- 
dren and teacher might petition the school officials to have 
the privy cleaned, promising thereafter to keep it in good 
condition. If the privy is of the ordinary pit type, it would 
be wise also to have the pit cleaned out or the outhouse 
moved. With the help of school officials, or children, or 
both, covers might be provided and the outhouse screened 
from flies. The pit privy is, as has been said, usually unsafe, 
especially if there is a well on the premises. It would be a 
splendid example of sanitation if the privy could be altered 
so as to have a removable receptacle. This might be accom- 
plished through the school officials, or in some cases possibly 
by some of the larger boys who are handy with tools. It 
would be wise not to attempt anything of this kind if the 
school or the community are likely to be hostile to the sug- 
gestion. Practically any existing privy-house may be fitted 
with slight alterations so as to hold a receptacle box. (See 



140 HEALTH EDUCATION IN RURAL SCHOOLS 




FIG. 13. THE BOXED RECEPTACLE 



Figs. 13 and 14.) In this way an insanitary privy may be 
made sanitary at a cost of not more than two or three 
dollars. Any water-tight receptacle may be used, but a 

cylindrical can of 
galvanized iron will 
usually be most suit- 
able. 1 

One difficulty in 
the use of such an 
outhouse is the ne- 
cessity of emptying 
the receptacle at 
regular times. This 
must be arranged for 
in some way, pos- 
sibly by the pupils 
themselves. Thiswill 

Flies are excluded by the fly-tight box. Ventilation is , , , . 

provided by screened openings in the sides of the box and DC a mUCll ICSS dlS- 
in the lid. The hinged front permits ready removal of the 
can for cleaning. Such a device is safe, sanitary, and con- 
venient, and may be placed in an existing privy-house or in 
any suitable out-building. (Original.) 

(Courtesy of U.S. Public Health Service. From Public to put a shovel of 

lime or sand into the 

receptacle after using the toilet. An outhouse with a large 
tank or receptacle requiring less frequent removal would 
be desirable. 

Ultimately when rural communities become alert to the 
grave dangers of the open vault, it will be possible to in- 
stall in every country school a system of septic tanks 
connected with washout toilets. 2 The outhouse of the 
country school is now a national disgrace and a grave 
enemy of health, wholesomeness, and morality. 

1 For further description see Public Health Bulletin No. 68. 

2 An excellent discussion of this topic is found in Dresslar's School Hygiene 
(Macmillan), chap. ix. 



can be trained 



THE WATER-SUPPLY AND SEWERAGE 



141 



Secure codperation of pupils to make the drinking-water 
more sanitary. If the privy cesspool can be eliminated one 
menace to the drinking-water has been removed. There is 
much that the chil- 
dren may do to im- 
prove the water- 
supply if they are 
properly encouraged 
and if some of them 
can handle ordinary 
tools. For example, 
if the well is likely 
to receive surface 
water from the top 
of the ground after 
a rain* a ditch might 
be dug around the 
well with proper out- 
let. If the platform 
of the well admitted 
dust and waste ^ 14 REAR AND SlDE VlEW OF A REMOVABLB _ 
water, in a country RECEPTACLE SANITABT PRIVY. (STILES, 1910.) 

Where lumber Was ^ n insal " tar y P" v y ma y be altered according to this plan 

. .. , with little expense so as to be wholesome and sanitary. 

plentiful Children (Courtesy of U. S. Public Health Service. From Public 
i , ,i Health Bulletin No. 68.) 

might put another 

layer of boards, preferably of matched lumber, over the 
platform, or a broad trough might be made to put under the 
spout of a pump to carry off waste water. 

The drinking-water may be pure as it leaves the well and 
yet be contaminated before it is drunk. Often the water pail 
itself is left uncovered, exposed to dust, and a common cup 
makes it easy for disease to be passed from one child to a 
whole school. The common cup has now been proved to be 
most insanitary. Davidson found cells, scraped from the 




142 HEALTH EDUCATION IN RURAL SCHOOLS 

lips of persons who drank, so numerous in the upper part of 
the glass that the head of a pin could not be placed thereon 
without touching some of these pieces of tissue. One hun- 
dred thousand bacteria were present to every square inch of 



BUBBLING CUP 




FIG. 15. A SIMPLE WATER-SUPPLY SYSTEM 

The water is always cool and easily available. Such a system has advantages over an 
ordinary bubbling fountain. There is always enough force to raise the water so that the 
children are not tempted to apply their mouths to the bubbler, and the tank being under- 
ground and outside of the schoolroom is never warm. The first district normal school at 
Kirksville, Missouri, estimates the maximum cost of installation as $30. 

glass. In the survey of Porter County the common drink- 
ing-cup was found in 14.3 per cent of the rural schools of the 
county, individual cups only in 42.5 per cent, and individual 
cups by some of the pupils and the common cup by the 
others in 40 per cent. In the majority of States the common 
drinking-cup has now been condemned, but the individual 



THE WATER-SUPPLY AND SEWERAGE 



143 



Cent 



ZBuhbling (Fountain 
Common tfrin 




530 



drinking-cup, unless the children are properly trained, as 
was shown in the above-mentioned survey, may be but little 
better. Children will exchange cups. They will carry them 
in dirty pockets, will drop them on the floor where they may 
gather dirt of all kinds, and will often lose them. The com- 
mon cup should go, of course, whether there is a law requir- 
ing its abolishment or not, but the teacher should see that 
pupils are trained in the use of its successor, the individual 
cup. Each child will find it easy to secure a cup at home. 
A plan must then be devised for its use. This should be 
thought out by the 
children with the 
help of the teacher. 
Cups may be hung 
on the wall in such 
a way that they will 
not drip on each 
other. A slip of pa- 
per with the child's 
name should be pasted just below. The teacher's responsibil- 
ity does not end here. She should see that the cups are really 
used individually and are cleaned regularly. The cleaning 
may best be accomplished by appointing a regular time for 
each pupil to clean his cup. The cup which is dipped into 
the pail to fill the individual cups should never be used as 
a drinking-cup. It would be better to use a large pitcher 
so that this go-between cup would be unnecessary. Paper 
drinking-cups may also be made by the children (see Fig. 
10). A large number might be made at one time and kept 
in individual desks for use, but care again needs to be exer- 
cised by the teacher to see that they are not passed along. 
If the paper cup is used, it would be desirable to have a 
box closed in on all sides, but allowing an opening at the 
top so that paper cups once used could be disposed of. 



FIG. 16. REPORTS FROM 1258 RURAL SCHOOLS 
IN 18 STATES SHOW THESE FACILITIES 
(Bureau of Education. Bulletin, 1910, No. 2.) 



144 HEALTH EDUCATION IN RURAL SCHOOLS 

The paper drinking-cup, or any kind of individual cup, 
is preferable to the common drinking-cup, but it should 
be abandoned as speedily as practicable for the bubble 
fountain. Money for such purposes might easily be earned 
by the children through some entertainment. An excellent 
fountain at a reasonable price may be secured from the 
Waterman- Waterbury Company, Minneapolis, Minnesota. 

Common towels must go. Under no circumstances should 
a common towel be tolerated. It is as dangerous to health 
as the common drinking-cup. Eye and skin infections and 
other diseases are often communicated in this way with 
ease. Paper towels, which may be ordered of any dealer 
in school supplies, best solve the problem. If the purchase 
of these at first proves impracticable, children should be 
urged to bring their own towels, which should be put care- 
fully on individual hooks. Such a plan is, however, only a 
makeshift, and should be abandoned as soon as possible. 
All children need to be taught to wash their hands after 
returning from the toilet and before eating. 

Enlist the interest and cooperation of parents, school 
officials, and community. While the teacher might be able 
to accomplish many things that have been mentioned with- 
out the cooperation of the general community, few perma- 
nent achievements can be made without getting such help. 
The teacher may find it desirable to invite some physician 
to talk to parents on a sanitary water-supply and the proper 
disposal of sewerage. Possibly a stereopticon lecture might 
be given. Such an occasion would give the teacher an oppor- 
tunity to tell parents about her plans with the children and 
some of the needs of the school. If the parents and school 
officials are once made to feel that the teacher is striving to 
do something beneficial for the children there will be little 
doubt as to her securing their assistance. 



THE WATER-SUPPLY AND SEWERAGE 145 



REFERENCES 

1. John A. Ferrell. The Rural School and Hookworm Disease. United 
States Bureau of Education, Bulletin no. 593. 

Invaluable to teachers living in a region where hookworm is prevalent. 

2. S. P. Gates. Farm Water-Supplies. Massachusetts State Board of 
Agriculture, Boston, Circular no. 18; pp. 8. 

Describes the advantages and disadvantages of different kinds of wells, and how 
water may be best made available. Refers more to the methods of getting water than 
to hygiene. Illustrated. 

3. X. H. Goodnough. The Sanitary Side of Farm Water-Supplies. Massa- 
chusetts State Board of Agriculture, Boston, Circular no. 43; pp. 11. 

Excellent. 

4. Paul Hansen. Disposal of Sewerage from Country Houses, Small Insti- 
tutions, and Country Clubs. Illinois Health News (August, 1916), 
Springfield, Illinois. 

Practical, illustrations, drawings. 

5. L. L. Lumsden, C. W. Stiles, and A. W. Freeman. Safe Disposal of 
Human Excreta at Unsewered Homes. United States Public Health 
Service, Public Health Bulletin no. 68. 

Very practical; many illustrations; should be in hands of every rural school-teacher- 

6. Charles E. North, M.D. Sanitation in Rural Communities. Current 
Educational Topics no. in, United States Bureau of Education, 
Bulletin no. 496; pp. 22. 

Interesting presentation of rural health problems and methods of solution. 

7. Edward D. Rich. The Sanitary Privy. Engineering Bulletin no. 8. 
Michigan State Board of Health, Lansing, Michigan. 

Drawings and descriptions of sanitary privy. 

8. Edward D. Rich. The Chemical Closet. Engineering Bulletin no. 5. 
Michigan State Board of Health, Lansing, Michigan. 

Valuable discussion of a closet which may be used indoors, illustrations. 

9. Edward D. Rich. How to Construct a Sanitary Dry Earth Closet. 
Engineering Bulletin no. 3. Michigan State Board of Health, Lansing, 
Michigan. 

Invaluable pamphlet. Describes a closet practical for rural schools. 

10. H. W. Riley. Sewerage Disposal for Country Homes. Published under 
direction of A. L. Martin, Director of Institutes, Commonwealth of 
Pennsylvania, Harrisburg; pp. 42. Also published by New York State 
College of Agriculture at Cornell University, Sanitation Series no. 4. 

"Last word on drainage for rural homes." Tells how sewerage plant may be con- 
structed at minimum cost. 



146 HEALTH EDUCATION IN RURAL SCHOOLS 

11. C. W. Stiles. Country Schools and Rural Sanitation. United States 
Public Health Service, Reprint no. 116; pp. 5. 

Shows plainly the sanitary needs of rural schools. 

12. C. W. Stiles. The Sanitary Privy. United States Department of Agri- 
culture, Farmers' Bulletin no. 463; pp. 32. 

Drawings, plans. Very valuable. 

13. Edward K. Strong. Effect of Hookworm Disease on the Mental and 
Physical Development of Children. Rockefeller Foundation, New York. 

Interesting study of mental and physical tests of 115 children in a hookworm- 
infected country to determine difference "between non-infected children, infected 
children who are not treated, and infected children before and after treatment." 

14. G. C. Whipple. Pure Water. State Board of Health of Jacksonville, 
Florida. Publication 128; pp. 21. 

Gives a good idea of the dangers of an impure water-supply and what a city water- 
supply ought to be. Illustrated. 

15. Methods of Sanitary Disposal of Sewerage without Sewers. Indiana 
State Board of Health, Indianapolis, Indiana. 

Excellent practical discussion. 

16. Hookworm Disease and How to Prevent It. Metropolitan Life Insur- 
ance Company, New York. 

A brief pamphlet answering in a nutshell all important questions about hookworm. 

17. Ground-Itch or Hookworm Disease and Soil Pollution. Public School 
Health Bulletin no. 2, Office of Superintendent of Public Instruction, 
Raleigh, North Carolina. 

An excellent bulletin for teachers; illustrations; answers fifty-five questions about 
hookworm. 

18. Seven Intestinal Worms Found in Virginia. Virginia Health Bulletin, 
April, 1917, Virginia State Department of Health, Richmond. 

Interesting pamphlet on common intestinal parasites, diseases caused and means of 
prevention. 

19. The Danger Zone on the Farm Sewerage Disposal. Virginia State 
Board of Health Bulletin, vol. vn. no. 6, pp. 248-62. 

Excellent. Describes in detail how to make a sanitary outhouse. Many drawings. 

20. The Sanitary Box. Virginia State Board of Health Bulletin, vol. vi, 
extra no. 6, pp. 136-38. 

How to build a sanitary device cheap enough for the poorest home. Drawing. 



THE WATER-SUPPLY AND SEWERAGE 147 



CLASS EXERCISES 

1. Let every member of the class inspect the water-supply and sewerage 
in at least two rural schools. Make a summary of these observations. 
Make a detailed plan showing just what you would try to do as a 
teacher to improve conditions noted. 

2. How many of the rural schools visited presented models of sanitation 
to their communities with reference to sewerage and water-supply? 

3. In how many schools did the teacher take an active part in bettering 
the conditions? If so, how? 

4. What is the ideal location of a pit privy with respect to the drinking- 
water source? In how many rural schools have you found such ideal 
locations? 

5. How does an artesian well differ from an ordinary well? 

6. In how many of the schools inspected were the children trained in 
personal habits of hygiene, such as using individual drinking-cups 
and individual towels? Make a list of such habits and find out the 
teacher's methods in getting these habits established. 

7. In how many of the schools visited were there proper facilities for 
washing the hands? What was the teacher doing to get children to 
keep their hands clean and their nails properly manicured? 



CHAPTER VIII 

WAR ON FLIES, MOSQUITOES, AND OTHER DISEASE- 
CARRYING INSECTS 

The fly is an unmitigated nuisance and should be wiped out. No 
halfway measures should be considered. Fortunately this is per- 
fectly possible; for his presence is our own fault and nothing else, 
as he can lay his eggs and hatch only in piles of dirt and filth found 
about our own houses, barns, and outbuildings. 

(Woods Hutchinson.) 

THE causes of sickness and death have been among the 
greatest mysteries of life. Primitive man seeking to explain 
these unfortunate experiences ascribed them to evil spirits. 
In primitive communities there was usually a medicine-man 
who was believed to be able to drive away these bad spirits 
by beating on tom-toms or by laying the hands on the parts 
of the body affected and mumbling strange words. Among 
civilized men disease has sometimes been thought to be a 
curse of God for some sin committed. Although many of the 
modern theories were foreshadowed by physicians during 
the ancient and mediseval times, modern preventive medi- 
cine could not exist until the microscope was invented, the 
germs of disease discovered, and their responsibility for dis- 
ease really proved. Even after the germs were discovered, 
they were for a long time mere curiosities. It was not until 
1877 that Pasteur, through a wealth of experiments, proved 
to an astonished world that these minute living organisms, 
invisible to the naked eye, were responsible for disease. The 
cause of contagion, which had been a total mystery clothed 
in vague terms like "humor," virus, etc., was no longer 
guessed, but known. Even after microscopic organisms 
were held responsible for disease, the question as to how 
they gained access to the human body had to be ascer- 



WAR ON FLIES AND MOSQUITOES 149 

tained. This problem was solved to a considerable extent 
during the latter part of the nineteenth century, thereby 
bestowing many rich blessings upon mankind. 

How diseases are communicated. It was thought at first 
that environment was the principal source of infection, and 
while it is true that water, air, soil, and food may be the 
vehicles by which communicable diseases are often trans- 
ferred, they are only the media of conveyance and not the 
real source of disease. Most germs are really frail beings 
that cannot live long in our environment such as the soil 
and water. The main source of the diseases of man is now 
believed to be man himself, although there are a number of 
diseases which man contracts from the lower animals. Dis- 
ease may be transferred from man to man directly or indi- 
rectly. When there is contact infection there is a transfer 
of quite fresh infective material. It is not necessary that 
two individuals should come directly in contact, as in kiss- 
ing, but the conveyance must be pretty close as to time and 
space. Contact infection may take place through soiled 
hands, or contaminated towels, or infected cups or spoons. 
Many diseases may be communicated indirectly through 
water, food, soil, air, or insects. Since 1893, when it was first 
definitely known that insects carried disease, practically 
every insect, and animal as well, has been under suspicion. 
In some diseases they are the sole carriers. 

The case against the fly. "As harmless as a fly" has be- 
come a proverb in our language, but it needs to be revised 
so as to read, "As dangerous as a fly." The common house 
fly is born in filth, usually in horse manure, human excreta, 
or other wastes. It has been found that a single fly may carry 
from 570 to 4,400,000 bacteria upon its surface, and from 
16,000 to 28,000,000 in its intestinal tract. Among the dis- 
eases which he may convey are typhoid, cholera, dysentery, 
diarrhcea in infants, erysipelas, diphtheria, smallpox, and 



150 HEALTH EDUCATION IN RURAL SCHOOLS 

parasitic worms. In rural regions, where the contents of 
outhouses are so frequently exposed to flies, there is prob- 
/9ro ably even a greater possibility of flies 

carrying disease than in the city. Then, 
too, in the country there is so little care 
taken of barns and piles of manure that 
flies breed in great profusion, so increas- 
ing the possibility of infection. 

Woods Hutchinson sums up the case 
against the fly in these words: 

A fly in the house is as dangerous as a 
rattlesnake, as filthy as a louse, and as dis- 
graceful as a bedbug. The time will come 
when any modern, cleanly home will feel 
itself shamed and disgraced by the presence 
of a fly, and when every householder upon 
whose premises a brood of flies is detected 
will be heavily fined or sent to jail. 

Studying the life-history of the fly in 
rural schools. The danger of the house 
fly should, of course, be prominent in 

the course of study, but one of the best 
FIG. 17. DIAGRAM SHOW- . '* . 

ING THE DEATH-RATE introductions to this topic would be 

FROM TYPHOID FEVER ^ gtud of the fly i tse jf ra ther than 
IN CITY OF JACKSON- " T 

VILLE, FLORIDA pages in the textbook. Dr. Hodge sug- 

in IQIO there were 8500 gests that a glass can containing manure 

open closets in the city. By f . & 

1913 these closets had been m which there are many eggs or tne iiy 
SS"r^ a J3tS be put into the schoolroom where the 

" t he t t a \r different sta s es of the ^f of ^ e fl y 

were made during this time. can be Watched by the children. In its 

(From Ritchie's Primer of , , n . , j 

Sanitation, with the permission gTOWth the fly paSSCS thrOUgll tOUT dlS- 

of The World Book Company. ^^ stages< The first Stage in the 

process is the laying of the eggs. (Fig. 18, 1.) The fly is very 
prolific in this. A single female fly lays from one hundred to 



WAR ON FLIES AND MOSQUITOES 



151 




one hundred and fifty eggs at a time and eggs may be pro- 
duced several times during a season. As the eggs hatch they 
pass into the second stage and become maggots. (Fig.18, 2.) 
Each maggot or 
larva then becomes 
a pupa in a hard 
brown case. The 
insect then enters 
into a dormant state 
during which, mo- 
tionless and with- 
out food, the trans- 
formation goes on 
from the maggot to 
the perfect winged 
insect. It takes 
about ten days for 
the eggs to pass 
through the various 
stages to the devel- 
opment of the adult 




FIG. 18. THE FOUR LIFE STAGES OP THE 
HOUSE FLT 

(Courtesy of the State Board of Health of Maine.) 



house fly. If children watch these different stages through 
glass they will gain useful and interesting information. Dr. 
Hodge believes they will gain something else, a feeling of 
disgust for the house fly. They see it develop in the filth 
and it requires only a slight suggestion to think of its wiping 
its feet on their food. If once this feeling of disgust and re- 
pugnance for the fly is aroused, the enlistment of the pupils 
in the war against the fly is assured. 

While the experiment which we have just suggested is 
going on, another of practical importance may be instituted. 
Get another can containing horse manure filled with fly 
eggs or maggots and apply to it a little kerosene or pow- 
dered borax in a solution of water. A comparison of results 



152 HEALTH EDUCATION IN RURAL SCHOOLS 

will show that the can thus treated will develop no flies. One 
practical method for the prevention of the growth of the fly 
is thus demonstrated. 

In connection with these experiments the attention of the 
children should be called to the anatomy of the fly's feet, 
which are particularly well adapted for the carrying of filth. 
Not only may the flies carry filth on their feet, but their 
dejecta may be left on our food. The fly also has the nasty 
habit of returning through his suction tube drops of the 
material with which he has gorged himself. 

Much of what has been said here is very disgusting, but 
it must be remembered that a feeling of loathing for the fly 
is necessary in the child's education. 

The fly problem in rural schools. The various surveys of 
rural schools show that flies frequent the schools in large 
numbers. Here is a description of conditions in California: 1 

California is often poetically called the land of flowers. Not so 
poetically, but with equal truth, it might be called the land of flies. 
The rural school is not infrequently filthy as a result of flies. One 
teacher told me recently that they swarmed into her schoolroom 
by the thousands. They fell into the water-bucket. (Yes, that old 
moss-covered bucket is still in evidence.) They crept into the chil- 
dren's lunches in a most disgusting fashion, and only a few feet 
away were the insanitary toilets. This is a somewhat exaggerated 
case, but in hundreds of our rural schools flies are a pest and no 
attempt is made to exclude them from the room by screens or so 
to fix conditions that they could not be so numerous. 

Dr. Rapeer, in his study of rural school hygiene in Penn- 
sylvania, says : 2 

I have seen rural schools full of flies in my visits. Desks were 
covered with remains of pupils' lunches and the warmth of the 

1 Margaret E. Sballenberger, Hygienic Needs of California Rural Schools t 
Proceedings, Eighth Congress of the American School Hygiene Association, 
vol. v, p. 64. 

2 Louis W. Rapeer, Rural School Hygiene (section of the Pennsylvania 
Rural School Report, 1914), p. 15. 



WAR ON FLIES AND MOSQUITOES 153 

rooms had kept the flies alive till late in the fall. Such teachers 
may teach the spread of infection by flies when they come to the 
subject in the hygiene textbook while by their neglect they may be 
spreading disease. In one case the flies were so numerous that one 
to three or more could be seen on each piece of pie and other food 
that children were eating. 

The quotations above probably reveal conditions that are 
common in rural schools in every section of the country. 

Presenting the problem to the children. Before the study 
of the fly, which has been outlined, has been completed, the 
pupils of the school are likely to call the teacher's attention 
to the presence of flies in the schoolroom. The vital question 
which must come before the school is then: "What are we 
going to do about it? Shall we allow filthy flies to contam- 
inate our school home or shall we do something to rid our- 
selves of their disgusting presence?" If a modern textbook 
is in the hands of the children, they may now consult it to 
find out what is to be done. Most of the children will be able 
to suggest remedies from methods which they have seen 
tried. 

After the fly has his wings there are at least three measures 
which may be taken against the evil-doer: (1) Flies may be 
destroyed; (2) they may be excluded from the schoolroom 
and from food-supplies; (3) they may be excluded from 
places or materials where they may become infected. 

It is only by attempting to solve the fly problem in school 
that the reading in the textbook or the instruction of the 
teacher will be profitable. Train the children at school. 

" Swatting " the fly. Every school may do something to 
rid itself of the fly pest. One method, which is good so far 
as it goes, is to train children to kill every fly seen. This may 
be attempted through the use of the fly-swatter which may 
be purchased now at most general stores for a few cents, or 
one may be made by nailing a small piece of a wire screen 



154 HEALTH EDUCATION IN RURAL SCHOOLS 

on a stick. To prevent the soiling of schoolroom walls and 
furniture, the piece of screen should be edged with cloth. 

Poisoning flies. The use of poison is one method of de- 
stroying flies, although care needs to be taken to see that it 
is not exposed so that it may injure little children or domes- 
tic animals. These dangers, however, are most probable in 
the home where the children may be younger than school- 
children and where domestic animals are common. 

Every child should know about fly poisons and how they 
may be used. One of the safest and most satisfactory kinds 
of fly poison is formaldehyde. The State Board of Health 
of Maine recommends these two different mixtures, either 
of which may be used according to preference: 1 

(a) Mix one ounce (two tablespoonfuls) of formaldehyde (for- 
malin) with one pint of equal parts of milk and water. 

(6) One tablespoonful of formaldehyde in one pint of water 
sweetened with two teaspoonfuls of sugar. 

One of these solutions may be kept in the schoolroom. 
A slice of bread in the middle of the dish furnishes more 
space for the flies to alight and feed. It is a good plan to 
leave this solution in dishes in the schoolroom after school is 
closed for the day and after all other opportunities for drink 
have been carefully removed. Flies are thirsty insects, and 
by the time the schoolroom is opened in the morning the 
probability is that practically all the flies will be dead. They 
should be carefully swept up in the morning and put into 
the stove or some other safe place. 

In some locations, outside a screen door or under a ve- 
randa, for example, where a saucer would not be practicable 
or possible, the mixture may be given to flies as shown in 
Fig. 19. "A half pint or a pint bottle with a nick in the top 

1 The Filthy Fly as a Disease-Carrier. Circular No. 122, State Board of 
Health of Maine. 



WAR ON FLIES AND MOSQUITOES 155 

of it filled with the poison mixture is quickly inverted in a 
small shallow dish. The bottle in that position in the shal- 
low dish should be supported upon a bracket and hung up 
where the flies abound. With a nick in 
the mouth of the bottle of the right depth 
there will be in the dish only a shallow 
pool of the poison all the time." 

How to make sticky fly-paper. A great 
help in catching flies is to tack sticky 
fly-paper to a board suspended from the 
wall. The fly-paper is not poisonous, but 
it should be placed where there is no dan- 
ger of children getting into it. If the 
interest of the children is sufficiently 
aroused enough money may be raised to 
buy some of this paper at the stores. A 
substitute for the commercial product 
may be secured at a very reasonable price 




by boiling a pound of resin in a little VICE FOR POISON- 



more than half a pint of lard. If it is ' NG _ 

^ ^ ^ (Courtesy of the State 

kept in a wide-mouthed jar, it can be Board of Health of 

-. , , Maine.) 

spread on paper as needed. 

Teaching children how to make and use fly-traps. The 
fly-trap has many advantages over the other methods of 
destroying the fly to which we have referred. There is no 
danger from poison and no inconvenience as is frequently 
found from the use of sticky fly-paper. No child should 
leave a rural school without knowing how to make and oper- 
ate a good fly-trap. This work could come in as a part of 
the manual training. If time cannot be found to do it in 
school, it might be done as a part of the home work. This 
may be done with little difficulty, if the work is carefully 
planned and the children know exactly what they are to do. 
Directions for making an ordinary-sized fly-trap including 





FIG. 20. DIRECTIONS FOR MAKING A FLY-TRAP 

Material needed: 

Lumber, 2 pieces, 1" X 1" X 12" A 2 pieces, 1" X 1" X 10" B 

4 pieces, 1" X 1" X 18" C 4 pieces, *" X 4" X 12" D 

8 strips, 1" Xi" X12|" E 

1. Nail the four strips marked "A" and "B" to make bottom of frame. 

2. Nail bottom to the four pieces marked "C." 

3. Nail four pieces marked "D" to make top. 4. Nail top to upright posts. 

5. Cut fifty inches from your piece of screen for covering frame. 

6. Fasten screen to frame as shown in diagram. 

7. Nail strips marked "E" over the top and bottom edges of the screen to hold it firmly 
in place. 

8. Cone. 9. Fold as indicated. 

(Courtesy of International Harvester Company of New Jersey, Incorporated.) 



10 




FIG. 20 A. DIRECTIONS FOR MAKING A FLY-TRAP 

Material needed: 

Lumber 1 piece, \" X 14" X 14" F 
2 pieces, \" X 1" X 14" G 
6 wood blocks, J" X ' X I" H 

1 piece, i" X 4" X 11" I 

2 leather hinges 1 screw hook and eye 2 screw eyes 

76 inches of 20-inch wire screen 1 piece broom wire, 22 inches long 

10. Completed cone. 11. Nail cone in frame. 

12. Nail cleats marked "G" on bottom board marked "F." (See Figs. 14, 15, and 18.) 

13. Nail wood blocks marked "H" to corners of bottom of frame to allow space for flies 
to enter. 

14. Hinge bottom board to trap by the two leather hinges. 

15. Put in screw hook and eye. 16. Place screw eyes and put on bail. 

17. Lay piece marked "I" over opening at top and fasten with wood blocks, marked "H." 

18. Completed trap Bait with banana peeling, vinegar and sugar, piece of meat, etc. 

(Courtesy of International Harvester Company of New Jersey, Incorporated.) 



158 HEALTH EDUCATION IN RURAL SCHOOLS 

eighteen drawings may be purchased for a few cents by send- 
ing to the International Harvester Company, Agricultural 
Extension Department, Chicago. Directions for making 
this trap are reproduced here with the permission of the 
publishers. 

Where flies are very plentiful a larger trap may be desir- 
able. A simple form of outdoor trap may be made from any 
kind of tight barrel with the ends knocked out as shown in 
Fig. 21. A so-called "apple barrel" may be secured readily 
at any grocery store. Traps like this have been known to 
ensnare over a bushel of flies in a week. Such a trap may 
not be beautiful, but if one were made by the teacher and 
children, it would demonstrate how easily a fly-trap may be 
made, and if placed near a stable in the vicinity of a school- 
house, it would demonstrate its effectiveness in a few days. 

After a trap is made, success in catching flies depends on 
baiting it with something attractive to flies, like scraps of 
meat, bits of fried fish, or fish heads, or melon rind. Many 
of the flies caught in a trap soon die from starvation and 
thirst. Those remaining may be killed by closing up open- 
ings to the trap and burning a small piece of sulphur under 
the trap. A small trap may be immersed in hot water. 

A few good fly-traps, some placed inside and some out- 
side the schoolhouse, would probably greatly reduce the 
number of flies in the vicinity, but it would do something 
else; the instruction would reach the home. Some of the fly- 
traps not needed for school use would be taken home and 
used. Probably some of the most enterprising boys would 
make one of the larger traps from a barrel, "just for the 
fun of doing it." In a neighborhood where a little effort was 
already being exerted to get rid of flies, this instruction by 
the teacher would be very welcome to parents. 

Screening against flies. Even in the very best rural com- 
munities, where the screening of the windows is not un- 



WAR ON FLIES AND MOSQUITOES 159 

usual, it is seldom that a schoolhouse can be found screened. 
If flies frequent the school premises in great numbers, screen- 
ing is very necessary. Often a suggestion to the school offi- 

TOP 




for supporting trap + Bait pan 

CROSS SzcTfcn OFTRAP 

FIG. 21. SKETCH SHOWING HOW A FLY-TRAP MAY BE MADE WITH 
AN ORDINARY APPLE BARREL 

This sort of fly-trap has been known to catch a bushel of flies in a week. 
(Courtesy of Illinois State Board of Health.) 

cials will be sufficient to get screens for doors and windows. 
If this is not effective, the children might be able to bring 
remnants from home so that some screens might be made. 



160 HEALTH EDUCATION IN RURAL SCHOOLS 

A slight contribution by each pupil in the school would make 
it possible to cover doors and windows with netting. 

Destroying the breeding-places of flies. Killing, catch- 
ing, and poisoning flies are temporary expedients. A better 
way to solve the problem is to prevent their breeding. Often 
there may be a badly kept stable near the schoolhouse, over 
which the school has no control, and the most effective 
method of preventing the fly from ever making his appear- 
ance cannot be used. When such a situation exists the meth- 
ods already mentioned must be relied upon. Often, however, 
flies breed in the privies or in old garbage-cans or in garbage 
that is dumped upon the ground. Here is an opportunity 
for the school to study the problem and decide what to do. 
Covers to privy-holes might be made by some of the boys 
and the contents of the pit screened. 

Instruction as to a sanitary barn. Most flies are bred, as 
has been noted, in the piles of manure which are usually 
allowed to accumulate for an indefinite length of time near 
barns in country districts. Little can be done directly by 
the school to better these conditions, but children may at 
least be told about the requirements of a sanitary stable. 
The probability is that if children get a hygienic ideal with 
reference to the fly through the many activities we have 
recommended and are given information regarding a sani- 
tary stable, some of the information may function. General 
cleanliness around a stable, the storing of manure in a bin 
so that flies cannot get to it, the frequent hauling of manure 
to the fields where it is spread thinly over the soil, its treat- 
ment with powdered borax and hellebore to kill the larvae 
all these things will help to make the farm more sanitary. 
The probability is that the farm can never be made flyless 
because of the many opportunities for breeding, but some- 
thing can be done to mitigate the evil. If there is a sanitary 
stable in the vicinity, it may be visited by the children. 



WAR ON FLIES AND MOSQUITOES 161 

Otherwise the teacher must rely on pictures and reading 
matter. 

At Saranac Lake, New York, there has been a spirited 
campaign against the fly. Every barn was inspected and 
the owners advised as to the most approved methods of 
destroying larvae and screening or properly caring for any 
material which might serve as a breeding-ground. The 
following score card, which may give children a good idea 
of estimating the sanitation of a barn, was devised: 

BARN SCORE 

Owner Class 

Location Date 

Barnyard *%? 

No scattered rubbish 3 

No scattered manure (no yarding) 4 7 

Barn 

Neat appearance 5 5 

Floors 

Cement 3 

Wood 2 

Clean 5 8 

Stables 

Cement 3 

Wood 2 

Drain 2 

Abundant clean bedding 5 

Clean 5 15 

Animals 

Clean 5 5 

Manure bin 

Cement 20 

Wood 10 

Covered 5 

Fly proof 20 

Maggot exterminator used daily 5 50 

Ventilation 

Ventilators 3 

Sufficient air space per animal 4 7 

Hose faucet 

In use frequently 3 3 

100 



162 HEALTH EDUCATION IN RURAL SCHOOLS 

Celebrating fly week. In several States a week has been 
appointed by the Governor, State Superintendent of Public 
Instruction, or the State Board of Health to make a drive 
on the fly. The schools are always asked to participate in 
the campaign. In villages, towns, and cities there may be 
special efforts to get lecturers and arouse enthusiasm, but 
in the country the teacher can profit from the general talk 
about the event and the advertising through the newspapers. 
Then is the time to have a contest to see what pupil can 
trap the largest number of flies or to ask every pupil to do 
what he can to solve the fly problem in his own home. 

Compositions on the fly. Children's compositions are 
always more valuable if they describe their own personal 
experiences. The various phases of the campaign against 
the fly may be presented through compositions. Some of 
the compositions may be more or less imaginary, telling 
about the experiences of a fly. Such a composition helps to 
bring home to the child the menace of the fly. Below is 
found a prize composition of this character written by an 
eleven-year-old girl who was honored for her work by the 
Fly Fighting Committee of the American Civic Association: 

WHY IS THE HOUSE-FLY DANGEROUS? 

"Won't you come into my parlor?" says the spider to the fly. 

"No," says the fly to the spider, "I will bring you all kinds of 
diseases such as typhoid fever and tuberculosis." 

"Well, I'll take the risk," says the spider. 

"No, I'll not come in, but, if you will listen, I will tell you my 
history, and then I am sure you'll not want me," replied the fly. 

"Well, my mother told me this much. She said I came out of a 
little egg laid with many others in a manure pile. When I was 
hatched I did n't have any legs or wings, and was called a maggot 
by our worst enemies, men. I stayed in that form for five days. 
Then I had a thick brown coat and went into a sleeping stage 
which was called a pupa. When I shed that I was like I am now, a 
full-fledged fly. 



WAR ON FLIES AND MOSQUITOES 163 

"You have often wondered why I did not get in your web or get 
caught by you. Did you know I had many eyes that are put to- 
gether to make one? With these I can see on all sides, and so I am 
very hard to catch. 

"My worst enemies are you and your family, some beetles and 
a little reddish mite. 

"I always lay my eggs in manure or other filth. The people are 
screening it and burning it and burying it. They try to kill us by 
carbolic acid and sticky fly-paper where so many of my friends 
have ended their days. 

"People have some stuff, too, that they put in water and put in 
their bedrooms. They call it formalin, but I keep away from it, 
as it is sure death. 

" The worst trouble I have is where the people screen their houses 
and keep their yards clean so we can't get anything to eat. 

"Our worst danger is not the carbolic acid or fly-paper and such 
things, though, for after we are once hatched they can never kill 
us all off, but if they start out to destroy our breeding-places, the 
manure pile and other filth, we will soon be gone from the earth. 
I hope men will never find that out, but I fear they will some day." 

A fly catechism. The test of the effectiveness of the 
teaching of hygiene in connection with the fly depends on 
action rather than information. Nevertheless, some sort of 
a condensed statement of facts about the fly is valuable. 
Many boards of health have formulated catechisms on the 
fly. One of these, which has had a wide circulation through- 
out the United States, was published by the State Board of 
Health of Indiana. In some cities it has been printed and 
ordered to be pasted on the inside covers of school-books. 
It is a good illustration of the kind of material which a 
teacher may often get from boards of health, material which 
might be posted to advantage on the school bulletin board. 
It runs as follows: 

FLY CATECHISM 

1. Where is the Fly born? In manure and filth. 

2. Where does the Fly live? In all kinds of filth and he carries 
filth on his feet and wings. 



164 HEALTH EDUCATION IN RURAL SCHOOLS 

3. Where does the Fly go when he leaves the manure pile, the 
privy vault, and the spittoon? He goes into the kitchen, the 
dining-room, and the store. 

4. What does the Fly do there? He walks on the bread, fruit, and 
vegetables; he wipes his feet on the butter and he bathes in 
the milk. 

5. Does the Fly visit patients sick with consumption, typhoid 
fever, and cholera infantum? He does and he may call on you 
next carrying the infection of these diseases. 

6. What diseases does the Fly carry? Typhoid fever, consump- 
tion, diarrhceal diseases, diphtheria, scarlet fever, and in fact 
any communicable disease. 

7. How can the Fly be prevented? By destroying all the filth 
about your premises; screen the privy vault; cover the manure 
bin; burn all waste matter; destroy your garbage; screen your 
house. 

Either Man Must Kill the Fly or the Fly Will Kill Man 
PREVENT THE FLY 



INDIANA STATE BOARD OF HEALTH 

The mosquito as a carrier of disease. Malaria, popularly 
known as ague or chills and fever, has long been associated 
in the popular mind with low ground and swamps. It was 
finally observed that these were not necessarily connected, 
for some swamps and marshes seemed to be entirely free 
from malarial conditions. The real cause of malaria was un- 
known until 1880, when Laveran, a French investigator, 
found in the blood of malarial patients a particular kind of 
microbe. But even after the microbe had been discovered 
it was a complete mystery as to how it entered the human 
body and how it was conveyed from victim to victim. Fin- 
ally, in 1899, the riddle was unexpectedly cleared up. After 
a number of brilliant investigations, the malaria germs w^ere 
discovered in the body of the mosquito. A score or more of 
eager students and doctors offered to allow themselves to be 
bitten by infected mosquitoes. These experiments showed 



WAR ON FLIES AND MOSQUITOES 165 

that the mosquito conveys the disease from one person to 
another by his bite. Fortunately, it was found that the 
common piping or singing mosquito (Cidex pipiens) did not 
carry the disease. Only a rare kind of mosquito (Anopheles) 
is responsible. Later it was also discovered that the dreaded 
yellow fever was also carried by another kind of mosquito 
(Stegomyia) which frequents the tropics and sometimes the 
southern part of the United States. As a result of this dis- 
covery, Panama, Cuba, and all other places which have 
inaugurated preventive measures against the mosquito, 
have practically banished yellow fever. As the rural school 
is almost entirely concerned with the malarial mosquito, 
there will be no further references to the yellow-fever mos- 
quito. 

The mosquito problem in rural schools. Since the mala- 
rial mosquito makes his presence known most frequently 
toward night or very early in the morning, the mosquito 
problem is not so acute in rural schools as the fly problem, 
but nevertheless investigations show that many school- 
rooms are visited by mosquitoes. This is more likely to be 
the case when the school is near low, marshy ground. As in 
the lessons on the fly, the teacher should try to get the chil- 
dren to do something. Mere information about the mos- 
quito is not educative. 

Study the mosquito itself. The work in hygiene should be 
planned so that the mosquito can be studied at the time of 
year when he can be easily found. As a guide to such a study 
teachers are referred to that excellent pamphlet, Carter's 
Malaria; Lessons on its Cause and Prevention, Supplement 
no. 18 to the Public Health Reports. Rural teachers in 
Virginia will find the Virginia Health Bulletin, A Short 
Catechism on Malaria, full of practical suggestions. Every 
teacher, particularly in malaria-infected regions, should 
form a field class "to find the larvae of the different kinds of 



166 HEALTH EDUCATION IN RURAL SCHOOLS 

mosquitoes and to identify them and to learn to recognize 
the different places in which they breed; where the eggs of 
the different families of mosquitoes may also be found and 
identified." 

For teaching children the most important facts concern- 
ing malaria, Dr. Carter suggests the following with reference 
to the direct study of the mosquito : 

Culex mosquitoes will be found in almost any standing water, 
especially in rain barrels, in pools and puddles almost anywhere. 
Aedes (Stcgomyia) calopus will be found in artificial containers 
about houses. Anopheles will be found in the clean, shallow, shady, 
grassy pools described. The first two can be seen at once and 
recognized as not being Anopheles by their position, hanging head 

downwards. If one 
leans over a pool con- 
taining Anopheles and 
waits a little he will 
be able to see these 
larvae lying flat at the 
surface of the water. 
. 22 He must wait a little, 

To the left, larva of the Anopheles mosquito to the right, however, as they are 

larva of the Culex. Note that the larva of the Anopheles lies apt to dlVC when one 

almost .parallel to the surface of the water while the larva i . v i 

of the Culex hangs down. (Magnified many times .) approaches them ; also 

(From A Short Catechitm on Malaria, with the permis- they frequently run 

won of the Virginia State Board of Health.) ^ ^ ^ &nd j^ 

in the grass, so they are sometimes not so easy to see even 
when present. The best way to get them is with a dipper and a 
white saucer. Dipping in the water unless you see larvae is not 
the best way; make a quick stroke, just skimming the water 
towards the edges of the pool. Carry it into the grass, because the 
larvae are in the grass. Do not make this stroke until you have 
given the larvae time enough after you arrived to dive and come to 
the top. Another way is to press the edge of the dipper suddenly 
under water, so that the stream of water running into it may wash 
the larvae into the dipper. Pour the contents of the dipper into the 
saucer and you will see the larvae against the white ground. The 
young Anopheles are light gray, banded with black and very slen- 
der. The older ones are red, green, black, etc., the color depending 




WAR ON FLIES AND MOSQUITOES 



167 



on what they eat. They are less slender. All are quick in move- 
ment, and although they will dive, yet they also dart along the sur- 
face of the water, which the others never do. Some are extremely 
small. 

The eggs of Culex are easily recognized, being brown rafts half 
as large as the nail of one's little finger. The eggs are set on end in 
the mass. They are 
common on water bar- 
rels. Anopheles' eggs 
are in loose groups, 
the eggs lying flat on 

FIG. 23 

To the left the eggs of the Anopheles; to the right the 
eggs of the Culex. You will seldom find the eggs of the 
Anopheles clumped together. The eggs of the Culex gen- 
erally are found in "rafts" as shown in the cut to the 
right. (Much enlarged.) (From A Short Catechism on M a- 
laria, with the permission of the Virginia State Board of 
Health.) 





\O*T 

*ij 

the water singly. They 
are very much harder 
to find and require a 
hand magnifying glass. 
They are usually dem- 
onstrated by keeping 
Anopheles mosquitoes 
in a jar with water at the bottom, on the surface of which they will 
deposit their eggs. Eggs may also be found in nature on the surface 

of water containing 
many very young 
larvae. Dip this up hi 
a saucer and examine 
with a hand glass. 

Keep them in a ves- 
sel with a wide mouth 
fruit jar, candy jar, 
etc. half full of wa- 
ter or less, with pieces 
FIG. 24 

To the left the Anopheles or malarial mosquito; to the 
right the Culex, the common non-malarial mosquito of this 
climate. Note that the palpi of the Anopheles are almost as 
long as the beak while the palpi of the Culex are much 
shorter. Note also that the wings of the Anopheles are 
spotted and dusky while the wings of the Culex are almost 
dear. Both these mosquitoes are females, largely magnified. 

(From A Short Catechism on Malaria, with the per- 
mission of the Virginia State Board of Health.) 

big ones eat the others. Anopheles are much harder to raise than 
Culex, and unless one starts with nearly full-grown Anopheles 
larvae or pupae it is difficult to develop the mosquitoes from them 




of grass hi it extending 
above the water. Cover 
it with mosquito net- 
ting and some of them 
will develop into mos- 
quitoes, and you can 
tellthekind.Thelarvae 
are cannibals, and the 



168 HEALTH EDUCATION IN RURAL SCHOOLS 




unless one takes a pan or trough and makes enough of a marsh 
to imitate natural conditions. Some of the points of difference of 
mosquitoes and larvae can be seen with the naked eye, but a good 

hand lens is of great assistance and 
makes the study much more attractive. 
The pupils should be encouraged to 
do such antimalarial work as is prac- 
ticable to them. That directed against 
mosquitoes is the most practical; com- 
positions on subjects connected with 
the lessons; verbal reports say, 
weekly during the malarial season 
of what each one has done in the way 
of antimalarial work will increase the 
interest in this subject. The fuller the 
knowledge the teacher has of the sub- 
ject, and the more it is explained and 
developed the more the pupil will be 
interested and will profit. 

Children may help to solve prob- 
lem. Screening the school-house 
against flies will also be a precau- 
tion against mosquitoes, but to get 
at the seat of the difficulty the 
breeding-places must be destroyed. 
Often there is stagnant water on 
the school-grounds that can be drained or oiled by the chil- 
dren. The explanation of oiling may be presented by putting 
mosquito larvae into two different glass cans partially filled 
with water. Oil being poured on one, the children will read- 
ily observe what takes place. Each child may be asked to do 
something at home to prevent the mosquito from breeding. 
It will add to the interest of the pupils if they write composi- 
tions on their experiences in studying the mosquito or on 
what they have done to solve the problem at home. 

To get children interested in the plan of work which is 
outlined here, the teacher should make a careful study of 



FIG. 25 

Above, the Culex mosquito in a 
resting position; below, the Anophe- 
les resting. Note that the Culex is 
humped up; the head of the Anophe- 
les hangs down. (Much enlarged.) 

(From A Short Catechism on Ma- 
laria, with the permission of the Vir- 
ginia State Board of Health.) 



WAR ON FLIES AND MOSQUITOES 169 

the mosquito referring to as many good books and pam- 
phlets on the subject as can be secured. Much material may 
be secured free. The plan of campaign suggested here will 
do much to dispel the notion that hygiene is a dry subject. 

The louse as a carrier of disease. These insects, usually 
referred to in medical literature as "pediculi/* are, during 
their entire life, parasites on warm-blooded animals, espe- 
cially man. The blood-sucking habits of these creatures 
make them troublesome, dangerous, and capable of trans- 
mitting disease. They are now known to transmit typhus 
fever and they are also suspected in relapsing fever and other 
infections. 1 

Instruction of children as to lice. In all clean American 
families it is looked upon as disgraceful to have lice, but in 
some localities children may come to school with both heads 
and bodies infected. In many city schools there is a regula- 
tion that as soon as such a condition is observed by teacher, 
school-nurse, or physician, the child shall be sent home until 
the infection is removed. In rural districts, where there is 
no law and precedent behind the teacher, this course may be 
impossible and unwise, but children may be informed about 
the dangers from lice and how they may be eliminated. This 
is also a topic which might be discussed at parent-teacher 
meetings. 

The presence of lice is due largely to personal uncleanli- 
ness, although anybody may become infected by sleeping 
in a strange place or by personal contact. In the case of the 
body-louse, clothing should be boiled, baked, or steamed. 
Clothing injured by heat may be subjected to sulphur fumes 
or dipped in a carbolic-acid solution. It is comparatively 
easy to rid the head of adult insects, but the eggs are resist- 
ant. Boys with badly infected heads should have their hair 

1 The latest news from the Western battle front reports that the louse 
is a carrier of trench fever. 



170 HEALTH EDUCATION IN RURAL SCHOOLS 

cut short. The hair may be made free from lice by rubbing 
equal parts of kerosene and olive oil into the scalp, covering 
the head with a piece of muslin. In the morning the scalp 
should be washed well in hot water and soap and the hair 
combed with a fine-toothed comb wet in vinegar to remove 
nits. This treatment should be repeated for two or three 
nights. 

Dangers from other insects. Any kind of insect which 
bites a human being or crawls over his food may be sus- 
pected of carrying infection, and measures of prevention 
should be taken against them. The flea is now known to 
carry the dreaded Bubonic plague, and the bedbug is sus- 
pected of carrying tuberculosis, leprosy, and other diseases. 
Cockroaches, ants, and other insects known to frequent in- 
sanitary places and then come in contact with our food are 
to be feared and properly dealt with. All food should be pro- 
tected from dust and vermin. 

REFERENCES 

1. F. C. Bishopp. Fleas. United States Department of Agriculture, 
Bulletin No. 248. 

The life-history of the flea; danger to health; how destroyed. 

2. H. R. Carter. Malaria : Lessons on its Cause and Prevention. United 
States Public Health Service, Supplement No. 18 to the Public Health 
Reports. 

Especially prepared for the use of schools; should be in the hands of every rural 
school-teacher. 

3. F. C. Cook, R. H. Hutchinson, F. M. Scales. Experiments in the 
Destruction of Fly Larvce in Horse Manure. United States Depart- 
ment of Agriculture, Bulletin No. 00. 

Suggestive, but could not be used by pupils. 

4. The Filthy Fly as a Disease-Carrier. State Board of Health of Maine, 
Circular 122, Augusta, Maine. 

Comprehensive with several illustrations of devices. 

5. L. O. Howard. House Flies. United States Department of Agricul- 
ture, Farmers' Bulletin No. 679. 

Excellent for teachers, contains illustrations and much practical information. 



WAR ON FLIES AND MOSQUITOES 171 

6. R. H. Hutchinson. A Maggot Trap in Practical Use ; An Experiment 
in House-Fly Control. United States Department of Agriculture, 
Bulletin No. 200. 

Interesting account of a trap which caught ninety-eight per cent of the larvae breed- 
ing in the manure of a horse stable. Illustrated. 

7. Malaria ; Its Cause and How to Prevent It. Metropolitan Life Insur- 
ance Company, New York. 

A brief, excellent discussion of the malarial mosquito and how he may be destroyed. 
Could be read by pupils. 

CLASS EXERCISES 

1. Examine the latest report of the State Board of Health in your State 
for information on the fly problem. What material might be useful 
to teachers? Explain just how you would use it. 

2. Plan for an eighth grade a half-dozen lessons on the fly. 

3. Compare two series of textbooks in hygiene for children with reference 
to the treatment of the fly problem. Which is better? Why? 

4. Give all the different reasons why you think the life-history of the fly 
should be studied. W 7 ould these same reasons apply to the study of 
the life-history of the mosquito? 

5. How many of the rural schools with which you are familiar are located 
in communities where malaria is prevalent? To what extent have the 
teachers in these schools been leaders in these communities? What 
did the schools fail to do that in your judgment might have been done? 

6. In your visits to rural schools, observe how many buildings you find 
that are properly screened against the fly and mosquito. 

7. Arrange the details of a fly-catching contest to be carried out by 
upper-grade children. 

8. Make a plan of enlisting the coSperation of the community in exter- 
minating the flies; the mosquitoes. 

9. Visit a number of rural schools and find out what the teachers are 
doing or intend to do in regard to instruction on the fly. Does such 
instruction seem to be effective? Why? 



CHAPTER IX 

WAR ON RATS AND MICE 

The most serious indictment against the rat is the destruction of 
human lives caused by it as a carrier of diseases fatal to mankind. 

(Edward Howe For bush.) 

THE movement throughout the entire country, especially 
in our large cities, to destroy the rat is secondary in its im- 
portance only to the campaign against the house fly. In 
many ways the rat is even a greater enemy to man. Forbush, 
in his interesting and fascinating bulletin on Rats and Rat 
Riddance, has this striking introduction, which gives ade- 
quate reasons why the rat problem is one that schools should 
help to solve: 

With the lapse of ages the rat has become a parasite on man. It 
has developed into the greatest rodent pest ever known. It is far 
more destructive, directly or indirectly, to human life and property 
than any wild beast or venomous serpent. It appropriates nearly 
everything that man eats, and drinks many of his beverages. It 
follows him with its baleful influence from the cradle to the grave. 
It destroys his poultry and molests his domesticated animals. It 
has been know r n to attack and mutilate infants, sleepers, the sick, 
aged, and infirm. It is the forerunner of famine, pestilence, and 
death. It carries the germs of disease. It infects man's ships and 
habitations with the dreaded plague; sets fire to his dwellings and 
ships, and ceases its ravages only when the house burns or the ship 
sinks. As if not satisfied with pursuing him through life, it follows 
him in death, desecrating and mutilating his mortal remains. 

Rats numerous and destructive. Probably few people 
realize how many rats infest their premises. Farmers and 
householders when questioned usually admit that they have 
a few rats, but careful investigation often shows that they 
sustain a loss from them equal to their taxes. There are 



WAR ON RATS AND MICE 173 

always many more than are seen by human eyes. The con- 
ditions on the farm, where there is plenty to eat in the field 
and where there are poorly built and ill-cared-for granaries, 
are especially favorable for rats. Where a campaign has 
been begun on farms and plantations it has not been un- 
common to catch and kill hundreds and even thousands of 
them. Rats often swarm in fields of grain destroying a whole 
crop. They usually eat only the softer part of a kernel of 
corn and waste the rest. Large portions of other crops, like 
wheat, rye, barley, oats, etc., are taken by rats and mice in 
the fields. Rats often infest unthreshed grain in barns, and 
if left alone will destroy most of it. Fruits and vegetables 
when stored in buildings and cellars are eaten by them. The 
writer has known of a winter's supply of potatoes to be 
almost entirely spoiled by them. The damage done to 
buildings by rats is incalculable. They gnaw the under- 
pinning and cause the decay of sills, floor-timbers, and floors 
by bringing them in contact with fresh dirt. Rats are held 
responsible for a famine in India following the year 1879. It 
would take many pages to enumerate the damages perpe- 
trated by the rat without any consideration of the greater 
damage to the public health. 

The cost of keeping a rat. It is estimated by Surgeon R. H. 
Creel, of the United States Public Health Service, that one 
half cent a day ($1.82 a year) is a conservative figure of the 
cost of keeping a rat. 1 It is probably a poor farm that does 
not support fifty or more rats. At this minimum estimate a 
farmer would lose ninety-one dollars annually. The loss to 
the whole country must be enormous. If we assume that 
there are only as many rats as there are people in the United 
States, on the basis of the per capita cost estimated above, 
the rat costs our country $182,000,000 per year. Any esti- 

1 This estimate was made before the advance in the cost of living; it 
costs much more now to keep a rat. 



174 HEALTH EDUCATION IN RURAL SCHOOLS 

mate of this kind is largely guesswork, but nobody who is 
familiar with the actual damage done by rats, would suggest 
a smaller loss. 

The rat a menace to health. The economic loss due to the 
rat would be a sufficient reason for his extermination, but 
there is still another more important motive, for the rat is 
responsible for that dreaded scourge, the Bubonic plague, 
and other diseases. The plague has a history going back to 
Bible times. Probably the worst outbreak of this malady 
occurred between the eleventh and the fourteenth centuries 
when the "Black Death" devastated Europe. Within the 
last eighteen years this same plague has caused the death 
of over 7,000,000 people in various parts of the world. It 
has made little progress in this country because of the careful 
work of our public health authorities. The disease seems to 
be essentially a disease among rats. It is communicated from 
one diseased rat to another and to man by fleas. Fleas, 
abandoning a rat dead of plague, bite human beings and so 
inoculate them with the disease. Often the plague is carried 
from one country to another by rats which conceal them- 
selves on board a ship and then escape when it reaches port. 
There seems to be little danger of the plague being commun- 
icated from one person to another if ordinary precautions as 
to isolation, special hospitals, etc., are intelligently carried 
out, but if the malady spreads among the rats it results in 
most serious consequences. In San Francisco and New Or- 
leans, where the plague in this country began, it was quickly 
exterminated through the brilliant work of the United States 
Public Health Service in destroying promptly all infected 
rats. 

Rats are also likely to carry the germs of other diseases 
because of their habits of frequenting privies, drains, sewers, 
underground passages, and other filthy places where they 
can find food. 



WAR ON RATS AND MICE 175 

Dissemination of inf ormation about rats and rat riddance 
through the school. Several States have offered a bounty on 
rats, and boards of health, women's clubs, and civic organi- 
zations have launched a vigorous warfare against them. It 
is clearly the duty of the school to help the good cause along. 
This can be accomplished by planning definitely to take up 
this problem in the course of study. Children should have 
all necessary information about the danger from the rat and 
the methods of rat riddance. If the school textbooks have 
nothing on this question, the teacher, after informing herself 
thoroughly, may present the significant facts to the children 
orally, or, better still, she may get a number of free bulle- 
tins and distribute them among the older children. Lessons 
may be assigned from them as from a regular textbook. If 
children are allowed to keep such bulletins and take them 
home, the parents are also likely to be interested and even 
do something to rid their premises of rats. 

Methods of rat riddance. It is impossible to do more than 
touch briefly on this important topic. For further informa- 
tion the reader is invited to consult the references at the end 
of this chapter. 

There is no one method that can be relied upon to exter- 
minate rats. One of the usual methods about a farm is to 
keep cats. Opinion seems to differ as to the efficiency of the 
cat as a ratter. Most authorities belittle the cat as a rat- 
catcher. While they may keep down the number of rats, 
it is improbable that they will entirely free a farm of them. 
Then, too, only a small proportion of cats will catch rats. 

Another popular method of extermination of rats is that of 
poisoning. Where rats are plentiful, poisons are economical 
of time and money; but there is always some possible danger 
to man and domestic animals by its use. Where there are 
little children the use of poison is dangerous. A number of 
reliable rat poisons are on the market. 



176 HEALTH EDUCATION IN RURAL SCHOOLS 




The intelligent use of traps will practically free any home 
or farm of rats. The rat is one of the wariest of animals, and 
many people who have tried to trap rats complain that their 
trap won't catch them. There are many traps on the market, 
but success, as Forbush intimates, " depends more upon the 
trapper than the trap." No matter how good the trap and 
how attractively it may be baited, rats cannot be caught so 
long as they have plenty to eat. One of the first things to do, 

then, is to remove all loose 
food and garbage and see that 
everything edible is put into 
a secure place. The much- 
used steel-trap is one of the 
poorest because it may injure 
children and domestic ani- 
mals. All traps when used 
should be kept clean and con- 
cealed as much as possible. 
Before setting a trap, it should 
be well cleaned with plenty of 
hot water and a brush and 
dried before the fire. The trap 
should be handled with gloves, 
as rats can detect the odor 
from the human hand. It is even desirable to scent the 
gloves with a drop or two of the oils of anise, caraway, or 
rhodium which overcome the human scent. 

There are other methods which may be used such as 
fumigation, drowning, clubbing, shooting, etc. One of the 
best things to remember is this : rats will not stay in a place 
where they can get nothing to eat. Food should not be 
exposed. Buildings should be made rat-proof. 

Training children to catch and kill rats and mice. The 
teacher should not be content to know that children have 



FIG. 26. "FIGURE 4" TRAP AND 
DETAILS OF CONSTRUCTION 

Sometimes a weighted deadfall will kill a 
cautious rat. A bit of plank, well weighted, 
supported with a "figure 4" trigger, built 
to "throw clear," covered with straw and 
enticingly baited, may do the business. This 
is the kind of trap any boy would like to 
make. 

(From Bats and Rat Riddance. Repro- 
duced with the permission of the author.) 



DO YOU WISH TO GET RID OF RATS? 

Starve them keep the cover on the garbage-can. 
Deprive them of nesting-places clean up rubbish-piles. 
Trap them use several, cleaned, scented, concealed traps. 
Poison them if you do not fear the risk. 

Stop up their holes use a mixture of cement, sand, and broken 
glass, first sprinkling chloride of lime in the holes. 

Leave no opening unguarded fill up holes around pipes and wires, 
and cover ventilators, skylights, and cellar windows with half -inch 
wire netting. 

Make your building rat-proof use concrete, sheet metal, or wire- 
netting; or raise the building at least two feet above the ground 
leaving the space beneath open. 

Cooperate with all who try to exterminate rats. 

REMEMBER 

That rats can swim half a mile, burrow nearly three feet, or jump 
nearly two feet. 

That they climb by means of rope, tree, or vine. 

That they multiply rapidly. 

That they cause fires by chewing matches, by eating into gas-pipes, 

and by gnawing the insulation from electric wires. 
That they carry disease. 

IF THERE ARE RATS ON YOUR PREMISES, THEY 
ARE THERE BECAUSE EITHER YOU OR YOUR 
NEIGHBORS FEED AND PROTECT THEM. 

THE WOMEN'S MUNICIPAL LEAGUE 
OF BOSTON * 

1 Poster used in Boston's campaign against rats. Reproduced with 
the permission of the Women's Municipal League of Boston. 



178 HEALTH EDUCATION IN RURAL SCHOOLS 

been well informed as to the dangers from rats and how they 
may be destroyed. It might be regarded as a part of the 
school work for every older pupil to catch or kill at least 
one rat. There might be a contest in which the pupils would 
be divided into two equal groups. On the blackboard or on 
a sheet of paper hung on the wall there could be a daily 
record kept to arouse competition. Around nearly every 
farm there is at least one rat-trap which is seldom used 
because "the rats are too sly to be caught." There is no 
reason why rats cannot be caught if the trap is properly 
used. If traps are not available at home, cheap and reliable 
traps may usually be purchased at any general store. The 
flat trap, which may be secured for five cents at the five and 
ten cent stores, is not so strong but that a rat will occasion- 
ally get out of it, but if sufficient numbers are properly 
baited they will usually clear a house of rats. 

In some of the counties of the Middle West a day has 
been set aside to kill rats and has been quite generally 
observed. Every teacher may do something to make such an 
occasion successful through the distribution of circulars and 
by enlisting the efforts of the school. (See illustration op- 
posite.) 

If the study of the rat problem is well conducted, we may 
expect finally that pupils will have a loathing for the rat as 
great as that for a poisonous snake, and that they will really 
"do their bit" to help solve the problem of rat riddance. 

Although the mouse has never been convicted of carrying 
the plague, there is no doubt that his filthy habits make him 
a carrier of disease. Then, too, in proportion to his size, 
the mouse is equally as destructive to the property of man as 
is the rat. Cases have been known where mice have com- 
pletely destroyed fields of grain. In the interests of both 
wealth and health the mouse, like the rat, should be de- 
stroyed. 




ONE WAY IN WHICH THE SCHOOL MAY HELP THE COMMUNITY TO BE 
MORE HEALTHFUL AND ALSO CONSERVE ITS FOOD SUPPLY 

Note each boy in this school has killed a rat. 
(From Forbush's Rats and Rat Riddance, with permission of the author.) 





THE BUBBLING DRINKING-FOUNTAIN is THE ONLY REALLY 
SAFE WAY OF PROVIDING DRINKING-WATER 

FOR SCHOOL-CHILDREN 
(Courtesy of the Waterman-Waterbury Company.) 



WAR ON RATS AND MICE tf 9 

The cat and sanitation. It is doubtful whether in the 
interest of health and economic prosperity the continued 
existence of the cat can be logically defended. Almost at 
the dawn of human history the cat was the companion of 
man and has shared his fortunes from that day to this, 
even to having his diseases and infecting mankind. Dr. 
Caroline Osborne, in an extensive study of the cat in rela- 
tion to disease, shows that the cat is susceptible to all species 
of disease germs which plague mankind. In many cases 
there is positive proof that the cat has transmitted disease 
to man, and the circumstantial evidence is overwhelming in 
pointing out the cat as one of the most dangerous carriers of 
disease to man. That she has the disease is enough to make 
us look upon her with suspicion. Knowledge of her habits 
and her close association with human beings forges the addi- 
tional links in the chain necessary for her conviction. She 
is a universal scavenger, bringing in dead and decomposed 
birds and mice as well as those freshly caught. Cats left to 
themselves will visit the most obnoxious receptacles, thereby 
contracting some of the most serious feline diseases. She 
loves to roll in the dirt and in the disposal of her excreta digs 
in the dirt, getting dirt into her claws and so making it 
possible to inoculate with various diseases by her scratch. 
When we consider the whole range of territory that the cat 
covers, especially the poorly fed cat forced to forage for her 
food, and her intimacy with members of a family, especially 
with children, it is questionable whether the cat is a desir- 
able pet. 

Since children, who are likely to handle a cat a good deal 
and come into close contact with it, are peculiarly suscepti- 
ble to the diseases which the cat may carry, the writer be- 
lieves that it would be better not to have a cat at all, or, if 
a cat is kept, as Dr. Osborne has suggested, she should be 
kept away from sources of infection or from people having 



180 HEALTH EDUCATION IN RURAL SCHOOLS 

disease. A cat known to be infected should either be disposed 
of or kept away from children. Stray cats, if they are har- 
bored, should be cared for with the thought in mind that 
they may be infected. 

The foregoing information and suggestions, not found in 
the ordinary school textbooks, the writer believes should be 
presented in all schools. It could best be taught, perhaps, in 
connection with the rat. 

The keeping of the cat has usually been defended on 
economic grounds, namely, that she catches rats and mice. 
Careful investigation shows, however, that comparatively 
few cats habitually attack rats and that traps are more 
effective than cats in catching mice. Investigation proves 
that the cat, instead of being an economic asset, is a positive 
economic burden. Forbush sums the matter up thus: 

It is a member of one of the most bloodthirsty and carnivorous 
families of the mammalia, and makes terrific inroads on weaker 
creatures. It is particularly destructive to certain insect-eating 
forms of life, such as birds, moles, shrews, toads, etc. Every year 
the cats of New England undoubtedly destroy millions of birds and 
other useful creatures, therefore indirectly aiding the increase of 
insects which destroy crops and trees. Such insects possibly cost 
the people of Massachusetts from seven and one half million to nine 
million dollars annually. The cat protects them, thus increasing 
the cost of living to every citizen. The good that cats accomplish 
in the destruction of field mice, wood mice, and insects is of little 
consequence beside the ravages they inflict among insectivorous 
birds and other insect-eating and mouse-eating creatures. 

Public opinion is not ready now and may never be ready 
to dispose of cats entirely, so the school should tell the truth 
about them and the way they may be controlled. Forbush 
suggests that this can be done by reducing the number of 
cats to a minimum, limiting breeding, destroying superflu- 
ous kittens at birth, restraining or confining cats kept as 
pets and as ratters (particularly at night and during the 



WAR ON RATS AND MICE 181 

breeding-season of the birds), quarantining cats in cases of 
infectious diseases, and destroying all stray and feral cats, 
wherever they may be found. 

Teachers will find the scholarly and fascinating bulletin 
of Edward Howe Forbush, The Domestic Cat (Economic 
Biology Bulletin No. 2, State Board of Agriculture, Boston, 
1916, pp. 112), of unusual interest and value. 

REFERENCES 

1. F. C. Bishopp. Fleas. United States Department of Agriculture, 
Bulletin No. 258. 

The life-history of the flea; danger to health; how removed. 

2. Bubonic Plague, Circular No. 120, State Board of Health of Maine, 
Augusta, Maine. 

A plain presentation of the relation of the rat to the plague. 

3. R. H. Creel. The Rat A Sanitary Menace. United States Public 
Health Service. 

4. Edward Howe Forbush. Rats and Rat-Riddance. Massachusetts State 
Board of Agriculture, Boston. 

Probably the most interesting, complete and practical bulletin on the subject. Il- 
lustrated. Excellent for teachers. 

5. David E. Lantz. How to Destroy Rats. United States Department of 
Agriculture, Farmers' Bulletin No. 369. 

A practical bulletin; very useful for teachers. 

6. S. E. Piper. Nevada Mouse Plague of 1907-08. United States De- 
partment of Agriculture, Farmers' Bulletin No. 352. 

Reveals the almost unbelievable damage done by mice. Would interest a rural 
community. 

7. Rats Kill Them. Virginia Health Bulletin, vol. vi, extra no. 7. 

Makes the amazing statement that rats cost the State of Virginia half as much as 
it costs to run the Government. Presents clearly and briefly the minimum amount of 
knowledge that every school-child should possess. 

8. Health of Home and School. Leaflet no. 22, State Board of Health of 
Maine, Augusta, Maine. 

Devoted to the practical problem of how to catch rats. 



182 HEALTH EDUCATION IN RURAL SCHOOLS 



CLASS EXERCISES 

1. Is there any bounty in your State for killing rats? 

2. Write to your State Board of Health for printed matter on rats and 
rat riddance. 

3. Suppose that it costs $1.82 to keep a rat for a year and that there are 
as many rats in your State as there are people, what is the loss of the 
people of the State? If this economic loss were represented in bushels 
of apples or potatoes or some other commodity, what would it mean? 

4. Write a composition of five hundred words stating just why you think 
children should be taught about the danger from rats and rat riddance. 

5. Look up the history of the Bubonic plague in San Francisco; in New 
Orleans. 

6. Arrange a rat-exterminating campaign among your older pupils. 

7. W'hat percentage of the cats which you have had in your own home 
actually caught rats? 

8. Arrange some experiment to determine whether a particular number 
of cats is as effective in catching rats as an equal number of traps. 



CHAPTER X 

HEATING AND VENTILATING 

The one reform which perhaps more than any other, except pos- 
sibly greater cleanliness, is obviously needed in our schoolrooms, 
is a lower temperature. (Dr. W. H. Burnham.) 

In ventilating we ought to ventilate the people in the room, as well as 
the room itself. This can be done successfully only by turning the 
people out of doors every two or three hours if grown-ups, and 
every hour or so if children. (Dr. Woods Hutchinson.) 

HEALTH and efficiency are directly related to the con- 
dition of the air we breathe and the air which surrounds our 
bodies. The condition of the air in our rural schools is usu- 
ally quite unsatisfactory. This is due in part to improperly 
built schoolhouses, in many cases constructed many years 
ago before hygiene and sanitation were emphasized, and to 
improper equipment. The teacher is also responsible for 
much of the unsatisfactory heating and ventilating because 
she does not control the heating and ventilating in the most 
intelligent way. Even in a badly built and poorly equipped 
schoolroom, the teacher may do much to relieve the condi- 
tions, which are too often intolerable. 

Usual conceptions of healthful air. Little more than a 
decade ago it was assumed by the ventilating experts that 
air was healthful if it was kept at a uniform temperature 
(about seventy-two degrees), contained no more than three 
parts of carbon dioxide in ten thousand, and was free from 
drafts. A system of ventilation which could insure this con- 
dition of the air was referred to as ideal. The most recent 
investigations tend to demonstrate that no system of heat- 
ing and ventilating can furnish air to any living-room which 
is as healthful as outdoor air, and that air once considered 
healthful is far from being ideal. 



184 HEALTH EDUCATION IN RURAL SCHOOLS 

Experiments to determine healthful air. Instead of ac- 
cepting blindly the old standards of heating and ventilating, 
patient investigators have put those standards to a test to 
find out what conditions could be proved to be best for the 
worker. There are many problems of detail that have not 
yet been solved and numberless investigations are still going 
on; nevertheless, there are a few fundamental principles 
that have been evolved which seem likely to stand the future 
tests of time. 

Ordinary experience in being in a crowd in a close room 
is far from agreeable. The results produced are drowsiness, 
headache, nausea, dizziness, faintness, lassitude, etc. As it 
was well known that oxygen is necessary for life and carbon 
dioxide is a waste product of the body, the belief naturally 
grew that the symptoms mentioned were due to an abnor- 
mal amount of this poisonous gas and a lack of oxygen. 
Hence the efforts to test the air so as to regulate the amount 
of carbon dioxide. But this theory, logical as it seemed, 
was eventually to be revolutionized. The most recent de- 
velopments in experimental hygiene seem to prove that 
the amount of carbon dioxide in the worst kind of air is 
not responsible for the illness and even death resulting 
from bad ventilation. 

The theory of the harmful effect of carbon dioxide was 
put to a practical test by enclosing people in air-tight cab- 
inets while the effects of various conditions of the air upon 
the inmates were noted. Dr. Paul found, for example, that 
when the temperature was as low as sixty degrees the ex- 
perimenter could stay in the cabinet for four hours without 
any noticeable signs of discomfort, although the oxygen of 
the air breathed was lower and the carbon dioxide higher 
than would be found in the worst- ventilated room. But a 
few minutes after the temperature was raised to seventy- 
two degrees there were signs of faintness, headache, and 



HEATING AND VENTILATING 185 

other discomfort. When an electric fan was started these 
symptoms immediately disappeared. When the air was 
kept cool and in motion, as was shown by other investi- 
gators also, there were no ill effects from breathing air 
which contained twenty times the amount of carbon diox- 
ide found in badly ventilated houses. 

In a number of noteworthy experiments, Hill proved that 
breathing hot and vitiated air seemed to have no relation 
to the symptoms. Individuals standing outside of the cab- 
inet were able to breathe the inside air without any ill 
effects. He also found that those within the cabinet were 
able to get no relief by breathing the fresh pure air outside. 
Fans and lower temperature alone brought relief. Appar- 
ently it was not the nature of the ah* breathed, but the 
condition of the air surrounding the body which was most 
important. 

How the body maintains a constant temperature. We 
need at this time, perhaps, some explanation of these experi- 
ments. A little study of physiology will be necessary first. 
One of tne remarkable characteristics of the human body is 
its constant temperature. No matter where man may be 
found, whether it is in the frozen Arctic regions of the north 
or in the tropics, the bodily temperature remains the same, 
about ninety-eight degrees. This is highly significant in the 
life of man, for it enables him to adjust himself to practically 
every part of the earth's surface. If he were cold-blooded, 
and his temperature was regulated by the surrounding air, 
he would hibernate in winter like some of the lower animals. 
The maintenance of this constant temperature is made 
possible by a very delicate kind of control within the human 
body, a mechanism which cannot be described in detail 
here. 1 

If the body, through exercise or a heated environment, 
1 See Hough and Sedgwick, The Human Mechanism, chap. xii. 



186 HEALTH EDUCATION IN RURAL SCHOOLS 

tends to get warmer than the normal temperature, the 
body is cooled in two ways. The controlling nervous system 
brings about the dilatation of the blood-vessels of the skin 
and the constriction of those of the internal organs. As a 
result, the blood rushes to the surface of the body. 1 The 
body then tends to throw off its excess heat into the outer 
air in much the same way that a heated stove warms a room. 
The possibility of doing this depends on the temperature of 
the air surrounding the body and the clothes worn. The 
nerves also stimulate the sweat glands so that a secretion is 
poured out upon the skin. The evaporation of this perspira- 
tion cools the body. 2 

Conditions favoring evaporation make the body cool and 
comfortable. On days when the thermometer registers a 
high temperature, but when the air is dry and a breeze is 
stirring, there is little discomfort. 3 Conversely when the 
air is still and heavy with moisture (muggy), so that the 
perspiration of the body is not evaporated, we feel uncom- 
fortable. Under such conditions the blood is drawn to the 
skin and away from the brain and internal organs, thereby 
seriously interfering with their work and producing faint- 
ness, laziness, and other symptoms. When the body is 
overheated, as in the case of sunstroke, even death may 
result. 

An interpretation of experiments. We are now in a posi- 
tion to interpret the experiments in connection with the 
cabinets. As long as a person is in an air-tight cabinet where 
the temperature is low, there will be no discomfort because 

1 Witness, for example, the gorged blood-vessels of the hands on a hot 
day. We sometimes say that our hands are swollen. 

2 Wet the back of your hand with a little naphtha, which speedily evap- 
orates, and notice how cool the hand feels. Notice how cool the kitchen is 
after it has been mopped even with warm water. 

J Notice how much faster the ground dries after a rain if the air is dry 
and moving. 



HEATING AND VENTILATING 187 

the body is able to maintain its constant temperature. 
When the temperature increases, the constant temperature 
is maintained with difficulty and so the inmate is uncom- 
fortable. The movement of the fan helps because the air 
next to the body of the inmate becomes saturated with mois- 
ture from the breath and the evaporation of the perspira- 
tion. The fan dispels this blanket of humid air and brings 
to the surface of the body drier air which makes evaporation 
again possible and the body is cooled. The person in the 
hot, vitiated air of the cabinet gets no relief by breathing 
the outside air because his bodily temperature remains the 
same. Conversely the person outside of the cabinet feels 
comfortable because he is able to maintain the normal tem- 
perature with ease. 

Optimum temperature of greatest importance in ventila- 
tion. Contrary to the traditional notion that the amount 
of oxygen in the air breathed determines its value for breath- 
ing purposes, it has now been demonstrated that neither the 
amount of oxygen nor carbon dioxide in the air available for 
breathing has any appreciable bearing on ordinary ventila- 
tion. The Ventilation Commission of New York finds that 
if the air is kept cool, moist, and in motion in an experi- 
mental chamber, there is no measurable effect on mental 
or physical activity. However, there is a loss of appetite. 
Some authorities believe that ventilating apparatus may 
be constructed so that the rebreathing of the air may be 
carried on to advantage. The possibility of the practical 
application of this theory, even if true, in the rural school, 
is, of course, a remote possibility. This commission sums up 
the whole matter by saying that "the thermometer is the 
first essential in estimating the success of ventilation." A 
large number of the more recent experiments on ventila- 
tion are emphatic in pointing out that a suitable tempera- 
ture is absolutely essential for the life of a human being. 



188 HEALTH EDUCATION IN RURAL SCHOOLS 

Dr. Burnham 1 epitomizes all these experiments by saying, 
"If the body is exposed to a high temperature for a long 
time, especially with great humidity, which hinders the 
evaporation from the skin and the cooling off by this means, 
then the bodily temperature rises and serious nervous symp- 
toms may appear, at first a feeling of discomfort and sleepi- 
ness, and finally heatstroke." 

The necessity for maintaining a temperature in the school- 
room between sixty-five and seventy degrees was well shown 
in reports made by Superintendent Hines at Crawf ordsville, 
Indiana. Burnham refers to Hines's observations as follows: 

"Temperature of eighty degrees, the class was restless, 
dull, and incapable of continued mental effort; seventy-six 
degrees, the class was dull and sleepy, penmanship was poor; 
seventy-five degrees, class was dull and complained of the 
heat; seventy-four degrees, not quite so dull as above; 
seventy-two degrees, restless; seventy degrees, excellent 
work, cheerfulness in class; sixty-eight degrees, best work, 
to-day seemed their best; sixty-six degrees, splendid work; 
sixty-five degrees, class happy and full of work, some com- 
plained about the room's being cold; sixty degrees, too cold 
for good work, complained of the cold." 

Such observations as those made by Hines show most 
decidedly that if the teacher is to have favorable conditions 
for work in the schoolroom, the optimum temperature of 
about sixty-eight degrees is a necessity. Every schoolroom 
needs a thermometer. 

The importance of drafts. It is now thought by all mod- 
ern hygienists that not only should the air of the school- 
room be about sixty-eight degrees, but that everybody 
should accustom himself to drafts. The old theory that 
drafts cause colds is now exploded. Colds are caused by the 

1 W. H. Burnham. "The Optimum Temperature for Mental Work"; 
Pedagogical Seminary (March, 1917), vol. xxiv, pp. 53-71. 






HEATING AND VENTILATING 189 

presence of germs. Hunters, trappers, and explorers, ex- 
posed to all sorts of drafts both in waking and sleeping, sel- 
dom have colds. If we were to accustom ourselves to drafts 
we should have fewer colds. As it is, we educate our heat- 
regulating apparatus so little that when the body encoun- 
ters a change in temperature it cannot adjust itself to the 
situation. The body is then cooled so rapidly that if the 
cold germ is present we catch cold readily. Children exposed 
to drafts in open-air schools do not usually catch cold. The 
stagnant air in our schoolrooms is not conducive to health. 
This condition of the air may be corrected somewhat by 
keeping some of the windows slightly open at the top and 
bottom. The hot air then rises and passes out at the top 
while the cool air comes in at the bottom. Cross ventila- 
tion, except on very windy days, may be secured by open- 
ing windows on opposite sides of the room. Windows should 
always be open, the degree of opening varying with the 
condition of the weather. By such methods air may be 
kept cool and in circulation. Even when a jacketed stove 
is used some ventilation by means of windows is necessary. 

The need of air sufficiently moist. One great evil of most 
classrooms is the dryness of the air. Cold air with sufficient 
moisture will expand when heated so that its drying capacity 
will be enormously increased. This air, often on winter days 
as dry as the Sahara Desert, dries the membranes of the 
nose and throat of the children leading to diseases of those 
organs. Colds, catarrh, adenoids, and enlarged tonsils may 
result. Dryness of the air also results in irritability and 
nervousness. Concentration of the attention on school- 
work becomes difficult and the work drags. 

Standards for schoolroom air. In contrast to >the older 
conceptions of healthful air (see p. 183), this standard would 
now be accepted by most hygienists : the temperature of the 
air should be about sixty-eight degrees, the air should be 



190 HEALTH EDUCATION IN RUKAL SCHOOLS 

moving rather than stagnant, and should contain as nearly 
as possible the amount of moisture found out of doors. The 
open-air school has ideal air. But every teacher needs to 
know that ventilation is primarily body ventilation. Hun- 
ger of the tissues for oxygen results largely from muscular 
activity. Children do not become strong, healthy, and 
rosy-cheeked by simply breathing fresh air but through 
vigorous exercise in the open air. The value of play in 
the ventilation of the body is immeasurable. 

Defects of the common stove. The majority of school- 
rooms in rural districts are still heated by the ordinary 
box stove. This is a very unsatisfactory method of heating 
because the temperature cannot be properly regulated 
throughout the room. Those who sit near the fire may be 
too hot, while those in the rear of the room may be chilly. 
This method of heating is also unsatisfactory because it does 
nothing to further the circulation of air in the room. The 
general stagnation of the air can be prevented to a large 
extent by window ventilation, but too often this is likely 
to be neglected. 

The jacketed stove. The ordinary stove should no longer 
be tolerated in any schoolroom. By the installation of a 
jacketed stove much better heating and ventilating is possi- 
ble. In this kind of stove (see the illustration opposite) 
both smoke and foul air are carried out through the 
flue, the foul air passing out near the floor. The fresh air 
comes in through the intake seen in the rear, is heated, 
and, rising between the casing and the stove, spreads out 
next to the ceiling and soon descends to the breathing line. 
This system brings about the movement l of the air and its 
even distribution. 

1 In the light of the experiments mentioned, it seems indisputable that 
the jacketed stove is superior to the common stove, not because fresh air 
and oxygen are being brought in constantly, but because the air may be 
warmed evenly through the schoolroom and also because it is not stagnant. 




I 



4| 
III 

Ml 



3 J I 

P K 

s 5 

*j -a 



11 




H-I r*i Q) 

a - 

^ *o 

W 

w I 1 

w 1 

a 



HEATING AND VENTILATING 191 

The schoolroom may also be heated through some form 
of basement heat, such as hot air (advantages similar to the 
jacketed stove), steam, or hot water. Because these are 
used so seldom in rural schools they will not be considered 
further here. 

No kind of heating or ventilating has entirely solved the 
problem of supplying air with the proper amount of mois- 
ture, although certain precaution may be taken. 

What the teacher may do. No matter what kind of heat- 
ing or ventilating equipment may be in use in any given 
schoolroom, it may be so badly managed that the health, 
school work, and discipline of the school will be seriously 
jeopardized. One superintendent of schools, when asked 
about the interest which his teachers took in the problem 
of heating and ventilating, said that many of them did not 
know where the foul air escaped. Unless the teacher knows 
how the heating and ventilating apparatus works there is 
little probability of the air in the schoolroom being suitable 
for the children. This is especially true in rural schools 
where often the teacher is her own janitor. Since the out- 
of-doors air is ideal, the teacher should see that the children 
have as much of it as possible. When the weather is mild, 
the ventilation of a schoolroom is not difficult. On such days 
the children should be encouraged to wear coats and sweat- 
ers and the windows should be left open. During pleasant 
weather, recesses should be spent out of doors. During such 
intervals the windows and doors of the schoolroom might 
well be open to flush the room with fresh cool air. At inter- 
vals during the day, when the children seem fatigued and 
the air in the room seems close and stuffy, the windows 
should be raised and the children put through gymnastic 
exercises. 

Although putting pots of water on the stove may some- 
what relieve the dryness of the air, this method is not alto- 



192 HEALTH EDUCATION IN RURAL SCHOOLS 

gether satisfactory. The more the air is heated, the more it 
expands and the drier it becomes. Overheating is, there- 
fore, to be avoided. This is likely to be impossible unless the 
schoolroom is provided with one or preferably two thermom- 
eters which are frequently consulted. Few rural schools 
possess thermometers, but they cost so little that probably 
few school boards would refuse buying them if properly 
approached. 

The teacher should, of course, make every effort to heat 
and ventilate her room as best she can with the equipment 
at hand, but she should lose no opportunity to impress 
school officials with the need of a jacketed stove or other 
needed equipment. Catalogues of up-to-date fixtures for 
the school may be secure4 from the Waterman- Waterbury 
Company, Minneapolis, Minnesota. 

Get children to study problems of heating and ventilating. 
If children are ever to take an intelligent interest in the con- 
dition of the air in their own homes, they must study such 
problems in the school. The older children should learn the 
essentials about the physiology of respiration, how the body 
maintains its constant temperature, the importance of this, 
the desirability of moving air and proper humidity. These 
topics should not be studied merely from the textbook. All 
reading should be preceded or accompanied by simple 
observations and experiments. Some of these have already 
been suggested in this chapter. Others may be found in 
books like Coleman's Hygienic Physiology, and still others 
may be devised by the ingenious teacher. 

The opportunity to study the heating and ventilating of 
the schoolroom should not be neglected. If an ordinary 
stove is used, children may test the air to see if it is moving, 
and if so in what parts of the room and under what condi- 
tions. This may be done by dangling a bit of very light paper 
from the end of a stick or ruler by means of a thread or a 



HEATING AND VENTILATING 193 

spider's web. Air currents may also be found by carrying a 
small smoking torch to different parts of the room and then 
watching the smoke. Experiments may be made with stove, 
windows, and doors to find the best methods of regulation. 
If a jacketed stove is used, children should find out where 
the fresh air comes in and where the foul air goes out. The 
vent for the escape of the foul air should never be closed. 

In the ordinary schoolroom window ventilation is of the 
utmost importance and can best be studied through simple 
experiments. The following problems may be solved by 
pupils through the actual manipulation of the windows and 
study of air currents: What is the effect of merely opening 
the window at the top? at the bottom? at both top and 
bottom? Which method is better for cooling off the room 
rapidly? Which method is better for comfort? Which gives 
the best circulation of air? If the wind is not blowing is it 
desirable to ventilate merely on one side of room or on 
the two sides directly opposite? Why? W T hen the wind is 
blowing try ventilating on the sheltered side of the school- 
room and again on the side toward the wind? Which is 
the better method? Why? Should those who have charge 
of the ventilation always notice the wind? Try the ex- 
periment of ventilating by opening cm.e window wide at top 
and bottom, and at another time by opening several windoivs 
slightly. Which is the better method? Why? Is it easier to 
ventilate on a cold or warm day? Why? 

Training children in the heating and ventilating of the 
schoolroom. The reading and experimenting should go 
hand in hand with actual doing. A committee on heating 
and ventilating might be appointed to look after the heating 
and ventilating during school hours. There should be two 
thermometers in every schoolroom, one on the teacher's 
desk and the other at the opposite end of the room. These 
thermometers might be consulted every half-hour by the 



194 HEALTH EDUCATION IN RURAL SCHOOLS 

committee and the stove or windows manipulated as the 
occasion demanded. To get the best results, teachers will 
find it desirable to make a record of its readings and what 
was done to remedy conditions. Records should be neatly 
kept on carefully ruled paper and submitted to the teacher 
for criticism at the end of the day. Opportunity should be 
given to all older pupils to serve on this committee until 
the practical problems are solved so far as possible by 
everybody. Such work could be considered properly as a 
part of the regular work in hygiene and marked accordingly. 

Making window-boards. Opening a window at the bot- 
tom and top is a good way to ventilate, but the opening of 
the window at the bottom is open to one objection. The 
cold incoming air may strike pupils who sit near the win- 
dows so directly before it has any chance to be warmed by 
mixing with the air of the room, that they will feel uncom- 
fortably cold. This can be remedied somewhat by a window- 
board which can be readily made by any boy who is handy 
with tools. A board should be cut as long as the width of 
the window-sash and then put under the lower sash. This 
will allow a space between the sashes through which the 
air may enter gradually into the room above the heads of 
the pupils and be somewhat warmed before reaching the 
breathing line. The window-board should not be more 
than five inches wide as it will shut out too much light. 
Dr. Dresslar recommends that window-boards be cut into 
in the middle and hinges be attached so that the board may 
fold up. This makes it easier for the teacher or pupils to 
adjust the board to the grooves made for the window frame. 

Keep the schoolroom clean. Dust and dirt are a menace 
to health. Dust irritates the lining of the air passages and 
also carries disease. One method of keeping down dust is 
to train children to clean their feet before entering the 
schoolroom. Children can hardly be expected to do this 



HEATING AND VENTILATING 195 

unless a foot-scraper is provided and they are trained in 
its use. The common methods of dry dusting and dry 
sweeping should not be allowed, as the dust is stirred up so 
that it is breathed in or it settles on books, walls, and desks, 
where it speedily comes in contact with the hands and cloth- 
ing. The dust may be easily removed by sprinkling the 
floor with clean, moistened sawdust before sweeping. Oily 
cloths may also be used on floors and furniture. The efforts 
of the children should be enlisted to keep the schoolroom 
clean. This is beneficial for the health of the children in 
school and may establish hygienic habits in the homes. 

Assigning home problems. As a part of the regular work 
in hygiene each pupil might be asked to do something in his 
own home to improve the heating and ventilating, such as 
the making of a window-board, ventilating a sleeping-room, 
etc. 

REFERENCES 

1. Ayres, Williams, and Wood. Healthful Schools. Houghton Mifflin 
Co., Boston, 1918, chap. vm. 

Gives brief review of the latest experiments on heating and ventilating with many 
practical suggestions. 

2. Fletcher B. Dresslar. School Hygiene, chaps, xi, xn. The Macmillan 
Co., New York. 

3. Hough and Sedgwick. The Human Mechanism, chap. xn. Ginn&Co., 
Boston, 1906. 

Particularly good on the physiology of the body temperature. 

4. L. W.Terman. The Hygiene of the School Child. Houghton Mifflin Co., 
Boston, 1914. 

Careful summary of experiments. Practical suggestions. 

CLASS EXERCISES 

1. Describe in detail the way your own schoolroom is heated and venti- 
lated. Are there any defects? How may they be corrected? 

2. What arguments would you use to convince a school board that a 
jacketed stove ought to be installed? 

3. Taking conditions such as you find in some particular rural school, 
plan a half-dozen consecutive lessons on heating and ventilating with 



196 HEALTH EDUCATION IN RURAL SCHOOLS 

the purpose of training the pupils to manage the heating and ventilat- 
ing of the room. 

4. How does the question of clothing affect the problem of heating and 
ventilating? 

5. In your visits to rural schools take particular pains to note the details 
of the heating and ventilating system. Observe further whether the 
temperature is not too high and the air too dry for comfort and brisk 
work. 

6. Write a letter to some standard firm manufacturing heating and ven- 
tilating systems, and secure catalogues and folders describing their 
products. 

7. Figure out the cost of converting the stove now in your schoolroom 
into a jacketed stove. (In most instances this can be done for under 
twenty dollars.) 

8. Consult several text-books on heating and ventilating. Work out in 
detail experiments such as were suggested on pp. 192-193. 



CHAPTER XI 

PLAY AND PHYSICAL EDUCATION 1 

If school hygiene is to be on the same basis as other school sub- 
jects, it must not be for the school alone, but it must establish hab- 
its and enthusiasms that will maintain the health in years to come. 
It is believed that all habits of play in the open air tend to do this. 

(S. H. Curtis.) 

Muscular activity and health. Muscular activity is abso- 
lutely essential to healthy living. While it is true that many 
who live a sedentary and inactive life do not seem to be 
injured, yet in the long run, as every student of the problem 
knows, serious results ensue. The man or woman, who for 
a long period of years neglects healthful, vigorous exercise 
in the open air is doomed to have some sort of physical 
breakdown. 

Because of lack of space it is impossible to discuss the 
value of physical exercise except in the briefest way. Mus- 
cular activity not only makes our muscles strong and en- 
ables us to influence our surroundings and do the work of 
the world, but as Hough and Sedgwick have so well ex- 
plained, 2 it "ministers to the health of the body as a whole" 
Physical activity affects the heat-regulating apparatus in a 
marked way. The excess of heat produced by exercise 
causes the small arteries of the skin to dilate and those in 
the internal organs to become constricted. The nervous 
mechanism which controls this is given a new form of activ- 
ity and thus receives valuable training in adjusting itself to 

1 For helpful criticism on chapters XI and XII I am indebted to Dr. 
C. B. Lewis, Director of Medical Inspection and Physical Education, 
Wilkes-Barre, Pennsylvania, and to Miss Lulu Donovan, Instructor in 
Physical Education, Boston Normal School. 

2 The Human Mechanism, chap. xvii. 



198 HEALTH EDUCATION IN RURAL SCHOOLS 

changing conditions of life. The person who leads a seden- 
tary and inactive kind of life will always tend to have a 
congestion of blood in the internal organs. This is bad, as 
congestions produce irritation and make colds and catarrhal 
conditions more common. Muscular activity relieves this 
congestion. Then, too, muscular activity increases the work 
of the heart and trains it to overcome unusual situations 
such as would be involved in climbing a mountain or run- 
ning for a train. The right kind of exercise also causes one 
to breathe more deeply, thereby exercising all parts of the 
lungs and preventing tuberculosis and other lung troubles. 
The circulation is stimulated so that poisonous matter sur- 
rounding the cells of the body is carried away and oxygen 
and nutrition brought to the cells. Exercise, especially if 
the muscles of the trunk are involved, has a favorable influ- 
ence on the digestion, tending particularly to prevent and 
even cure constipation. 

Thus it can be seen that all the vital processes of the body 
respiration, circulation, digestion are helped to do 
their work through physical exercise. Nor should we forget 
to notice that mental activity is also affected; for a circu- 
lation which carries to every cell of the body oxygen and 
nutrition makes for clear thinking. 

Why country children need physical training. It is com- 
monly thought that country children do not need any kind 
of physical training, as the work on the farm provides all 
the exercise that is necessary. This is a fallacy, for the work 
on the farm has changed materially within a generation. 
The clearing of the forests and the coming in of machinery 
have revolutionized the modes of muscular activity. The 
healthful exercise of swinging the axe to fell the trees of the 
forest, or to clear away the underbrush, is a thing of the 
past. The vigorous exercise of ploughing among stumps 
and stones or swinging a scythe in the hay-fields is no longer 



PLAY AND PHYSICAL EDUCATION 199 

a characteristic of farm life. The ploughs, cultivators, rakes, 
mowing-machines, binders, headers, and other implements 
convey the farmer over his land and diminish the amount 
of his physical exercise. The work that the boy does with 
his hands is frequently pulling weeds, hoeing, or the like. 
Such work tends to cramp the chest and bring the shoulders 
forward. If he drives a team he sits on a seat that has no 
back and assumes a cramped position. Children on the 
farm may develop considerable muscular strength, but this 
is becoming less important each year. There is little exer- 
cise which develops vital strength, vigor of heart, lungs, and 
digestion. Curtis says: "Country boys and girls are apt to 
be round-shouldered and flat-chested, with forward-slanting 
heads. Boys who have done much hard work are usually 
awkward and clumsy, almost without that grace and supple- 
ness that are characteristic of a child who has been trained 
through play. Country children generally have more stable 
nerves than city children. Their digestion is commonly 
good. But they are apt to be deficient in lung capacity and 
heart development." 

Physical education should therefore have a vital place in 
the rural school. 

The value of play. Fortunately for the child and his 
teachers there is an inborn tendency in children to be physi- 
cally active. The baby just beginning to creep is obsessed 
with the inclination to touch, handle, and experiment with 
things. Children when forced to remain inactive go to sleep. 
Activity is the fundamental law of childhood. As children 
grow older they pass from individual play experiences to 
those involving groups of children and highly organized 
games like baseball and football. 

Play has many values, for play embraces all the life of 
the child. First of all, play, especially if it is in the open 
air, is of hygienic value. Fresh air, sunshine, muscular 



200 HEALTH EDUCATION IN RURAL SCHOOLS 

activity, freedom, buoyancy, joy, all these fundamentals of 
healthy living are found in play. Racing, romping, happy 
children, through a variety of mental and physical activities 
are developing better hearts and lungs and better appetites 
and are thus laying the basis for a sound body and a healthy 
mind. 

Then, too, children in play come in contact with their fel- 
lows, learn to control their tempers, to accept defeat with 
good nature, to be loyal to their playmates, to subordinate 
themselves to rules, to strive to gain the approval of their 
companions. On the playground children learn those great 
lessons of self-control, self-mastery, sympathy, cooperation, 
honor, love of heroic deeds, and helpfulness that help to 
make men and women the truest kind of citizens. The boy 
or girl who has not played has only half lived. 1 

Play is not only constructive, making positively for health, 
morality, and general education, but it is a preventive of 
many evils. City schools that have introduced playgrounds 
have found less trouble with discipline, fewer cases of tru- 
ancy, and better school w r ork. Communities where play- 
grounds have been established have had a reduction in 
juvenile crime. Children are so constituted by nature that 
they crave action, excitement, and sociability. If these 
instinctive tendencies do not have a legitimate outlet through 
play, they are apt to be diverted into harmful and lawless 
activities. The playground in the city has abundantly 
justified its existence; 2 it will do likewise in the rural school 
and rural community if given a fair chance. 

Why country children need to play. Until quite recently 

1 For a sympathetic and fascinating treatment of the educational value 
of play see Joseph Lee, Play in Education. The Macmillan Company, 
New York. 

2 Read Patris, A Schoolmaster of the Great City (The Macmillan Company, 
New York) for a charming account of the effect of the spirit of play on a 
congested school in New York City. 



PLAY AND PHYSICAL EDUCATION 201 

play has been entirely neglected in the rural schools. It was 
easy to understand why children in the crowded tenements 
of the city needed to play, but the reasons for play in the 
country have not been clear to teachers and parents. Curtis 
goes so far as to say that play is more needed at the country 
school than at the city school. The farms are getting farther 
and farther apart and the children are decreasing in number 
each year so that it is becoming increasingly difficult for 
children to play except at school. This applies in particular 
to the team games. Parents in rural regions are likely to 
think that their children do not need to play ball because 
they have so much exercise at home. This is not true, as 
we have pointed out, because the exercise at home is not 
always conducive to vital strength. Then, too, mental 
health is almost as important as physical health. Life has 
grown too hard and serious on the farm; it too often de- 
scends to the humdrum. It is the lack of the spirit of play, 
with enthusiasm, abandonment of self, sanity, and opti- 
mism, that is making boys and girls, and even the older 
people as well, dissatisfied with the country. The rural 
school can do much for the rural communities by bringing 
into their lives the spirit of play. 

Rural teachers' neglect of play. In few schools do teachers 
take a real, vital interest in directing play. Children are 
usually left entirely to their own resources. As a result, 
children often indulge too much in teasing each other or in 
other undesirable activities. Instead of well-directed, organ- 
ized play, with splendid educative and hygienic values, 
children engage too much in "rough-and-tumble" scramble. 

There are several reasons for the teacher's neglect. She 
may have little appreciation of the value of play, have little 
of the spirit herself, and know little about the teaching of 
games. This is, of course, unfortunate, but if the teacher 
desires, these difficulties may usually be overcome. One of 



202 HEALTH EDUCATION IN RURAL SCHOOLS 

the first things to do is to buy, or get the school board to 
buy, one or more books on practical play. I believe that 
every teacher would be amply repaid if she made some per- 
sonal sacrifice to add such a book to her library. Any of the 
following books would be valuable : 

Jessie Bancroft. Games for the Playground, Home, School and Gymnasium. 
The Macmillan Company, New York. 

W. P. Bowen. The Teaching of Games. 

George Johnson. Education by Plays and Games. Ginn & Co., Bos- 
ton. 

Charles H. Keene. Manual of Physical Training, Games, and Mass Com- 
petitions. World Book Company, Yonkers-on-Hudson, New York. 

William A. Stecher. Games and Dances. John Joseph McVey, Phila- 
delphia. 

Teachers are apt to find that children have few games to 
play, and that they will welcome new games. If the teacher 
can contribute a new game now and then, teach the children 
how to play it, and take part in it herself, she will find that 
her efforts will be appreciated, and the children will look to 
her for direction as they get tired of a game. As the teacher 
takes part in the play herself, imbibes some of its spirit, 
and sees the effect on the school, the probability is that she 
will get a genuine appreciation of play as a factor in mental 
and moral growth. 

Other causes of neglect are lack of space for a playground, 
absence of play apparatus, and an unsympathetic commu- 
nity attitude. As this chapter will attempt to show, these 
are not always insuperable obstacles. 

Size of the rural school playground. It is to be regretted 
that the ordinary playground of the rural school is so small. 
Ordinarily the yard is not more than a half-acre in area. 
Often the land upon which the school-house was built was 
given to the district by some private individual, and was 
the poorest land available or it was bought by the school 
authorities because it could be purchased for the least 



PLAY AND PHYSICAL EDUCATION 203 

amount of money. I have seen a small school-yard so cov- 
ered with big rocks that play was almost impossible. Fortu- 
nately there is a growing public opinion in favor of larger 
playgrounds for rural schools. The school authorities of the 
State of Virginia seldom give then- approval to plans for 




FIG. 27. OREGON PLAN FOB RURAL SCHOOL-GROUNDS 

new school-grounds unless they provide for at least three 
acres. In North Dakota the school law provides that any 
site for a new school-building must have at least two acres. 
There is usually land near rural schools that could be 
bought at a reasonable price to make the playground larger. 
The reason that it is not bought is because the community 



204 HEALTH EDUCATION IN RURAL SCHOOLS 

does not realize that more land is really needed. It is pos- 
sible for every teacher to do something to make the com- 
munity realize this need (see p. 226). If the playground is 
too small, farmers owning fields near the school will usually 
give permission to play in the fields after the crop is har- 
vested if the teacher will guarantee that no damage will be 
done. This is, of course, only a temporary expedient, but 
it will enable a school sometimes to play certain games like 
baseball during parts of the year. There is at least one thing 
that every teacher can do : she can study the possibilities of 
the school-grounds and teach children to play those games 
which require but small space. 

Then, too, there are many games which can be played 
indoors on rainy days by the whole school. All teachers 
should have intervals of two or three minutes, with windows 
open, for exercise during school hours. There are many 
physical exercises which would be appropriate. l 

Good games for the out-of-doors. Baseball is usually 
thought to be a typical game for boys of the rural school, 
yet there are few schools where there are enough boys or 
sufficient space to play the game. It is a game which girls 
do not usually play, and they need the exercise far more 
than the boys, because they are out in the open air less and 
engage in less vigorous play. Baseball is adapted to exceed- 
ingly few rural schools. 

Volley-ball is probably one of the very best games for the 
rural school. It is played with a ball about half as heavy as 
a basket-ball over a rope or net seven and a half feet high. 
It requires a court about thirty-five by fifty or thirty-five 
by seventy feet in size. This may be outlined with a pick. 
Posts should be set so as to be eight feet above the ground 
and also to divide the court into two equal spaces when the 

1 See Keene, Manual of Physical Training, Games, and Mass Competi- 
tions. 



PLAY AND PHYSICAL EDUCATION 205 

net or rope is stretched across. These supplies may be 
purchased from A. G. Spaulding and Company, 124 Nassau 
Street, New York City, or through local dealers. If an old 
piece of cheesecloth or a strip of rope instead of a net is 
used, the expense will be greatly reduced. 

The game is played as follows according to Johnson: l 

Two sides of any convenient number of players are chosen. . . . 
A player serves the ball from the rear line of the court over the net 
and into the enemy's field. The ball must be returned before it 
strikes the ground. Batting upward with the palm of the hand only 
is permitted. A failure to return the ball in this way over the net 
and into the enemy's field counts one for the other side. A faulty 
service that is serving the ball under the net, or so that it touches 
the net, or out of the opponent's court, or striking the ball more 
than once in serving counts one for the side receiving. If a 
player touches the net it counts one point for the other side. The 
side first scoring a certain number of points agreed upon wins the 
game. 

Volley-ball has several distinct advantages. Country 
children are apt to have inferior chest development, to be 
stooped and round-shouldered. This game compels the 
player to keep his head and shoulders back, thus tending to 
correct these bad positions. It can be played by girls as 
well as boys, and the girls are really the greatest problems 
in physical education. Curtis says girls at fourteen have 
only three quarters of the lung capacity of boys at the same 
age. Statistics show that tuberculosis is also more prevalent 
among them. Volley-ball can also be played by children of 
all ages from eight up. It requires little space, is inexpen- 
sive, perfectly safe, hygienic, and involves excellent team 
play. 

Children with the teacher may easily lay out the court, 
erect the posts, stretch a rope or piece of canvas across, and 
buy a few balls. It will repay the energy expended. 
1 What to Do at Recess. Ginn & Co., Boston. 



206 HEALTH EDUCATION IN RURAL SCHOOLS 

Indoor baseball is another good game for rural schools. 
It is not well named, as it is played outdoors more than it is 
indoors. It is played like regular baseball except that the 
ball used is soft and measures twelve to seventeen inches in 
circumference. The diamond is thirty-five feet on a side 
instead of ninety as in regular baseball. Bases cannot be 
stolen and the ball must be pitched underhanded. 

This game has many advantages similar to volley-ball. 
It requires little space, may be played by boys or girls, 
may be played comfortably with five on a side, is safe, and 
furnishes moderate exercise. 

Tether ball is an excellent game for two players. It can 
be played in a limited space and is therefore especially 
adapted to small rural schools. The cost of the apparatus 
is very reasonable. Curtis 1 describes the game as follows: 

A post two or three inches in diameter and thirteen feet tall is 
set three feet in the ground. Six feet above the ground there is a 
black band around the pole. Attached to the top of the pole is a 
tether ball (a tennis ball inside a netting sack). A line twenty feet 
long drawn through the pole divides the ground into courts, and a 
circle six feet in diameter keeps the players away from the pole. 
On opposite sides of the pole stand the contestants with tennis 
rackets. The server takes the ball in his hand and strikes it as hard 
as he can, seeking to wind it up around the pole above the black 
line. His opponent on the opposite side seeks to wind up the ball 
in the opposite direction. Players must not step over the dividing 
line or inside the circle. The ball is up in the air most of the time 
and tends to keep the head up and the shoulders back. The player 
must run back and forth over the space allotted to him and often 
jump as high as he can in order to reach the ball. There is fully as 
much exercise in fifteen minutes of tether ball as there is in an hour 
of tennis. When some skill is acquired it is one of our most inter- 
esting games. 

Croquet and tennis are also good games for the country. 
They should be played in rural schools, if space permits, 

1 Play and Recreation for the Open Country. Ginn & Co., Boston. 



PLAY AND PHYSICAL EDUCATION 207 

not only for the recreation of the pupils, but also to intro- 
duce these games to the rural communities. 

Games suited to particular grades. There is a large 
variety of games adapted to children of particular ages. 
With the permission of the Department of Public Instruc- 
tion of New Jersey, a few pages of its bulletin, The Teaching 
of Hygiene and Safety, describing games recommended for 
various grades, is here reproduced. Some of these games 
may be played indoors. This list is of course quite incom- 
plete. All teachers should have some of the books referred 
to on page 202. 

FIRST AND SECOND GRADES 

Bean-bag plays. 1. Pass bags from left to right and return, sit- 
ting, and later standing. 

2. Pass bags backward on the left side and return, same on right. 

3. Pass bags backward over head and return. 

4. Tossing (in couples) : 

Toss with both hands and catch with both. 
Toss with right and catch with right. 
Toss with left and catch with left. 
Take turns tossing into a basket. 

Play movements. 1. Warm the hands; rub them together and 
slap them to rhythm. 

2. Warm the feet; stamp in rhythm to music. 

3. Warm the body; throw the arms quickly around the chest. 

4. Pick apples: raise high on tiptoes, stretch right arm high and 
bend head backward, pick the apple, and lower the hand; 
same left. 

5. Climb rope: raise right hand high up with head well back, pull 
the right hand down, and raise the left, and continue. 

FIRST GRADE 

Squirrel and nut. All the pupils but one sit at their desks, each 
with head on one arm and the other hand outstretched, palm up. 
The odd player, called the squirrel, carries a nut and runs on tiptoe 



208 HEALTH EDUCATION IN RURAL SCHOOLS 

up and down through the aisles. At his discretion he drops the nut 
into one of the waiting hands. The player who gets the nut at once 
jumps up from his seat and chases the squirrel, who is safe only 
when he reaches his seat. Should the squirrel be caught before he 
reaches his seat, he must be squirrel the second time; otherwise the 
player who received the nut becomes the next squirrel. It is hardly 
necessary to say that the players wake up to watch the chase. 

Squirrel in trees. Some of the players stand in groups of three 
with hands on each other's shoulders, forming hollow trees. A 
player stands in each tree, representing a squirrel. There is one odd 
squirrel without a tree. The teacher or leader claps her hands, 
when all the squirrels run for another tree, and the odd squirrel 
tries to secure a tree. The one who is left out becomes the odd 
squirrel next time. 

Good-morning. One player comes to the front of the room and 
blinds his eyes. He may do this by holding his hands over them or 
by placing his head in the teacher's lap. The teacher then silently 
points to some other player in the class, who rises at once and says, 
"Good-morning, David," or whatever the child's name may be. 
The little guesser, if he recognizes the voice, responds with "Good- 
morning, Arthur," or another name. If he does not recognize the 
voice at the first greeting it may be repeated twice. Should he fail 
on the third trial he turns around and changes places with the 
other player. If he names the right person he retains his place until 
he fails. 

Railroad train. Each player is named for some object on a train, 
such as engine, baggage-car, dining-car, caboose, etc. One person 
is chosen to be conductor. He says in narrative form, "We must 
hurry and make up a train to go to Boston. I will take number 1 
engine, some coal, the baggage car, etc." As he names a part the 
player bearing that name runs to the starter or engineer, who is 
chosen first, and lines up behind him, each putting his hands on the 
shoulders of the one in front. When all are on the train the con- 
ductor gives the signal for going and the train moves out. At 
the direction of the starter it goes over some obstacles, under 
others, around curves, etc. He may have a smash-up at the end. 
For large numbers there should be several trains started. 

Hide the thimble. One player is shown a thimble or other small 
object and sent from the room. While absent one of those remain- 
ing hides the thimble. When the object has been hidden the absent 
player is recalled and proceeds to hunt for it. While he is doing this 



PLAY AND PHYSICAL EDUCATION 209 

the others sing or clap their hands, the song being very soft or low 
when the hunter is far away from the object and growing louder 
when he approaches it. 



SECOND GRADE 

Automobile race. This schoolroom game is a relay race between 
alternate rows. The front child in each alternate row, at a signal 
from the teacher, leaves his seat from the right, runs foward around 
his desk, then to the rear of the row and back on the other aisle, 
completely encircling his row of seats until his own is reached again. 
As soon as he is seated the child next behind him encircles the row 
of seats, starting to the front on the right side and running to the 
rear on the left side. This continues until the last child has en- 
circled the row and regained his seat. The row wins whose last 
player is first seated. The remaining alternate rows then play, and 
lastly the two winning rows may compete for the championship. 

Bean-bag circle toss. There should be a bean-bag for each of the 
players except two. All the players form a circle separated from 
each other by twenty inches. At a signal from the teacher each 
player turns toward his right-hand neighbor and tosses his bean- 
bag to him, turning at once to receive the bag which is coming to 
him from the left. The game should move rapidly, but of course it 
requires skill, which may have to be acquired. With beginners it 
may be advisable to play the game at first with a fewer number of 
bean-bags. Balls may be used instead of bean-bags if desired. 
About every two rounds change the direction of tossing. 

Bean-bag board toss. A board eighteen inches by three feet is 
needed. Near the lower end of it cut a square hole, a little larger 
than the bean-bags. Higher up in the board cut a second hole about 
three inches in diameter. Give the board a slant of forty-five de- 
grees by placing one end against the wall. The player stands at a 
throwing line ten to twelve feet from the board. Each player may 
have five bags, or five may be used for the entire group, the bags 
being recovered for each player in turn. A bag thrown into the 
larger hole counts two, into the smaller hole five. The player wins 
who first scores fifty. Several boards may be used at once for large 
numbers. 

Overhead bean-bag pass. The several rows of pupils compete with 
one another in passing the bean-bag backward over their heads. 
The players are all seated, with the same number in each row. On 



210 HEALTH EDUCATION IN RURAL SCHOOLS 

each front desk a bean-bag is placed. At a signal the first player in 
each row lifts the bean-bag over his head and drops it on the desk 
behind him, immediately clasping his hands on his own desk. The 
next player catches the bag and passes it back in the same manner. 
It is thus passed quickly to the rear of the row. When the last 
player receives it, he runs forward at once to the front of the line. 
As soon as he reaches the front desk the entire row of players move 
backward one seat and the player who ran forward takes the front 
seat. The play thus continues until the original occupant of the 
front seat has again regained it. The row wins whose leader first 
does this. 

Fox and squirrel. The players sit in their seats facing the aisles, 
each two adjacent rows having their feet in the same aisle. Each 
player thus has some one facing him across the aisle. The game 
consists in passing some object (the squirrel), such as a bean-bag, 
from one side of the aisle to the other and back again, zig-zagging 
down the aisle, to be followed at once by some second object (the 
fox), the effort being to have the fox overtake the squirrel before 
the end of the line is reached. 

Drop the handkerchief. All the players but one stand in a circle, 
facing toward the center. The odd player runs around outside the 
circle carrying a handkerchief, which he drops behind one of the 
players. Those who form the circle must look toward the center 
and not turn their heads as the runner passes them. As soon as a 
player discovers that the handkerchief has been dropped behind 
him he picks it up and chases the one who dropped it, who may 
run around the outside of the circle and endeavor to reach the va- 
cant place. The players must all run in the same direction. If the 
one who is chased reaches the vacant place he is safe, and the one 
who picked up the handkerchief must be "it." 

Bird-catcher. Two opposite corners of the room are marked off, 
one to serve as a nest for the birds and another as a cage. A mother 
bird is chosen, who takes her place in the nest. Two other players 
take the part of bird-catchers and stand midway between the nest 
and the cage. The remaining players sit in their seats. All of these 
players should be named for birds, several players taking the name 
of each bird. The teacher calls the name of a bird, whereupon all 
the players who bear that name run from their seats toward the 
'nest, the bird-catchers trying to catch them. Should a bird be 
caught by the catchers it is put into the cage, but a bird is safe if it 
once reaches the nest. 



PLAY AND PHYSICAL EDUCATION 211 

THIRD GRADE 

Tag the wall relay. The players should all be seated, an even num- 
ber in each row. At a signal the last player in each row runs for- 
ward and tags the front wall. As soon as the player is out of the 
aisle the others all move back one seat. The runner, having touched 
the wall, returns and takes the front seat. As the player sits he 
raises his right hand as a signal for the player who is now the last 
one in the row to run forward, the line moving backward one place 
as soon as he is out of the aisle. He, in turn, having touched the 
wall takes the vacant front seat. The play continues hi this way 
until every one in the row has run. Care should be taken to have 
those seated keep their feet under the desks to prevent tripping. 
When the player who was number one in the row has run his turn 
and regained his seat he stands and holds up his hand. 

"Simon says" The players sit around a table or at their desks. 
Each player makes a fist of each hand with the thumbs extended. 
One is chosen for leader, whom the others follow. The leader says, 
"Simon says, thumbs up," whereupon he places his own fist on the 
table before him with the thumbs upward and the other players 
must all do likewise. The leader then may say, "Simon says 
thumbs down," whereupon he turns his own hands over so that the 
tips of his thumbs touch the table. He may then say, " Simon says 
thumbs wiggle-waggle," whereupon he places his fist on the table 
with the thumbs up and moves them sideways. If at any time the 
leader omits the words "Simon says" and goes through the move- 
ments the other players must keep their hands still. Any player 
imitating him under these circumstances must pay a forfeit or 
become a leader, as decided on beforehand. 

Weather cock. The players having learned which directions are 
north, south, east and west, one player, who represents the weather 
bureau, stands in front of the others, who are also standing, and 
calls out which way the wind blows. For instance, when he says, 
"The wind blows north," the other players turn quickly towards 
the north, etc. Whenever he says, "Whirlwind," the players all 
spin around quickly three times to the right. For older children 
half-way points may be used. Forfeits are the penalty of mistakes. 

"7 say stoop" This game is a variation of "Simon Says," but is 
more active than the latter. The players stand in a circle or line 
and in front of them stands the leader or teacher. The teacher says 
quickly, "I say stoop," and immediately stoops himself and raises 



212 HEALTH EDUCATION IN RURAL SCHOOLS 

again as in a courtesy. The players all imitate the action, but when 
the leader says, "I say stand," at the same time stooping himself, 
the players must remain standing. Any one who makes a mistake 
is out of the game. The leader should speak and move rapidly. 

Pussy wants a corner. All the players but one are stationed in 
corners or at convenient goals that will serve the same purpose. 
The odd player goes from one to another, saying to each, "Pussy 
wants a corner." The player to whom this is addressed replies, 
"Go to my next door neighbor." All the other players watch their 
opportunity to change places, and do this as often as possible. 
Puss tries to secure a corner by rushing to any place that is vacant. 
Whenever she is successful the odd player becomes Puss. Puss may 
call "all change," when all the players must exchange places, and 
in the general flurry Puss should secure a corner. 

Line ball. Have an even number of players in each row. Draw a 
line on the floor across the front of the room, a short distance in 
front of the blackboard. One player from each row takes his place, 
toeing the line. Another line is drawn at the front of each aisle even 
with the edge of the front desks. The game consists in tossing a ball 
from the leader on the forward line to those players who take their 
places in turn on the line at the head of the aisle. The first players 
in the rows rise to the right from their seats at a given signal and 
step to the line at the head of their aisle and catch the ball, which 
should be tossed to them immediately by the leader, who stands 
opposite. This player quickly tosses the ball back to the leader and 
sits down. His sitting is a signal for the player next in line to run 
forward and receive a toss from the leader and return the ball to 
him. This continues until every player in the line has caught and 
returned the ball. The line wins which first does this and whose 
leader first returns to his seat. Either bean-bags or balls may be 
used. 

Bean-bag toss. Fasten a small box measuring not less than six 
inches square inside one about twice the size, and that in a third, 
leaving at least six inches margin between the boxes. This is set 
up at a slight incline. Some ten or twenty feet away from this a 
throwing line is drawn. Each player is provided with five bean- 
bags and takes his place in turn on the throwing line, throwing all 
five bags at each turn. A bag thrown into the small box scores 
fifteen, one into the middle box ten, and one into the outside box 
five points. The player first scoring one hundred wins. 

Hopping relay race. A starting-line is drawn on the ground, be- 



PLAY AND PHYSICAL EDUCATION 213 

hind which the players stand in two or more single files facing the 
goal. The goal should be ten or more feet from the starting-line 
and may consist of a wall or a line drawn on the ground. At a sig- 
nal, the first player in each line hops on one foot to the goal and 
hops back to the rear end of his line, which has moved forward to 
fill his place when he hopped out. He touches the first player in the 
line as he passes him and this player at once hops to the goal and 
back. Each player thus takes his turn. The line wins whose leading 
player first regains his place. In a schoolroom the players remain 
seated until it is their turn to hop. If the game is repeated have 
them use the other foot. 

Follow the leader. One player, who is specially resourceful or 
skillful, is chosen as leader. The others all form in single file behind 
him and imitate anything he does. The leader aims to keep the 
line moving and sets hard tasks for them. He should go over and 
under obstacles, touch high points by jumping, etc. Any one fail- 
ing to perform the task drops out of the game or pays a forfeit, 
as is decided beforehand. 

Bean-bag ring throw. The players are divided into groups of 
equal numbers, which compete against one another. Rings twelve 
to eighteen inches in diameter are drawn on the ground or floor, 
one ring opposite each group of players lined up in single file. The 
leader of each row toes a starting line drawn across the floor ten to 
fifteen feet from the row of circles. Each group has six bean-bags 
or other objects for throwing. At a signal the leader of each row 
throws each of his bags in succession toward the circle and scores 
one point for each bag that lands within the circle. Any bag that 
touches the line does not count. The player then takes up his bags 
and runs to the rear of the line, giving the bags as he passes to the 
first player in the row. The players all throw in turn until the 
leader comes again to his original place. The row having the 
highest score wins. Points may be awarded for the team finishing 
first. 

FOURTH GRADE 

Blackboard relay. The class is seated, an even number in each 
row. The last player in each row has a piece of crayon. Each of 
these at a given signal runs forward and writes on the front black- 
board a word suitable for beginning a sentence. Upon finishing the 
word he returns to his seat, handing the crayon as he does so to the 
player next in front of him. This second player at once runs for- 



214 HEALTH EDUCATION IN RURAL SCHOOLS 

ward and writes another word bearing a suitable relation to the 
first one. In this way each player in the row adds to the sentence 
that his row is writing. The last player must complete the sentence 
and add punctuation marks. The points scored are: twenty-five 
for speed, twenty -five for spelling, twenty-five for writing, and 
twenty-five for grammatical construction, capitals, and punctua- 
tion. This game may be adapted to arithmetic, history, etc. 

Corner spry. The players are divided into four groups, which are 
stationed in four corners of the room. Four captains stand in the 
center, each with a bean-bag, facing his corner of players, who 
stand in a row. Each captain throws his bean-bag to the head 
player in his row. The bag is thrown back to the captain, who 
tosses it to the next one, and so on until all the players have tossed. 
Then the captain calls "Corner spry" and runs to the head of the 
row, and the last player becomes captain. The group that first has 
all its players in the captain's place wins. 

Bag-pile. The players are divided into two or more equal parties, 
which line up in ranks. Near the front end of each rank is a pile of 
ten to fifteen bean-bags, which are to be passed down the line. At 
a signal the first player in each rank takes a bag and passes it down 
the line, sending the others hi succession after it as rapidly as pos- 
sible. The last player in the line upon receiving the bean-bag lays 
it on the floor in front of him, and as each bag reaches him he piles 
it on the preceding one, thus making a stack. Only the first one 
may touch the floor. The stack must be able to stand without as- 
sistance and the player who stacks the bags must have no help in 
his task. Should the bags fall over at any time the player must 
pick them up and pile them over again. The line scores 1 which 
first succeeds in getting all its bags stacked. The last player, the 
one who stacked the bags, then carries them up to the front of the 
line and becomes the first passer for the next round of the game. 
The line wins which first scores five or ten, as has been decided 
beforehand. 

Slap Jack. All the players but one stand in a circle with the odd 
one in the center. Those in the circle bend their elbows, which 
should touch their sides, and extend their hands in front with the 
palms downward. The object of the one in the center is to slap the 
hands of any player in the circle while thus extended. The circle 
players may bend the hands downward or sideways, but may not 
withdraw the arms or change the position of the elbows. Any one 
slapped in this way changes places with the one in the center. In 



PLAY AND PHYSICAL EDUCATION 215 

the schoolroom this is played in groups with the players seated, 
instead of in a circle. Two rows face each other to form a group. 
The one who is "if* walks up and down the aisle. 

Observation. This game is a test of visual memory. A number of 
different objects are placed on the teacher's desk, and the pupils 
are permitted just one look as they pass by. They then go to their 
seats and make a list of the things seen. The objects should be so 
shielded that they can be seen only when one is at the desk. This 
can be applied to nature study and other work. 

Bean-bag row toss. Arrange the players in rows of equal numbers. 
Number one in each row has a bean-bag or ball and at the word 
"start" stands and throws the bag or ball to number two, who also 
stands at the word "start." Number two throws it back to number 
one and sits down, while number one throws it to number three, 
who stands up as soon as number two is seated. Number three 
throws it back to number one, and the game continues until number 
one has received the ball back from the last player in the row. He 
then lays it down on the desk and runs to the seat of the last player, 
while all players move up toward the front seat. Number two in 
the row then becomes number one and tosses the ball as his pre- 
decessor did. When the first number one reaches his original place 
he calls "done" thus scoring a point for his row and starts 
again. The row scoring the most points in fifteen minutes wins. 

Thimble ring. All players but one stand in a circle, each clasping 
with his left hand the right wrist of his left-hand neighbor. All 
right hands are thus free and all left hands occupied. The odd 
player stands in the center of the circle and tries to detect who 
holds the thimble, which is passed from hand to hand. Each player 
in the circle places his right hand first in the hand of the neighbor 
on the right and then in the hand of the neighbor on the left, with a 
rhythmic movement, while the entire circle repeats the lines: 

"The thimble is going, I don't know where, 
It is first over here, and then over there." 

When the player in the center thinks he knows who has the 
thimble, he goes up to him and says: "My lady's lost her thimble, 
have you it? " If correct, these two players change places. If incor- 
rect, the player who is "it" asks the player addressed to find it. 
This player has one guess. If he is correct, he takes the place of 
the one who has the thimble, the one who is "it" taking the vacant 
place in the circle, and the one who held the thimble going to the 



216 HEALTH EDUCATION IN RURAL SCHOOLS 

center. Should the player be incorrect in his guess he changes 
places with the one in the center. 

Bean-bag target toss. Draw three concentric circles on the ground 
or floor similar to a target. The size should depend somewhat on 
the skill of the players; for the youngest the inner circle should be 
not less than two feet in diameter and the outer six feet. For those 
more skilled smaller circles may be used. Ten to thirty feet from 
the outer line of the large circle a throwing line is drawn. When 
a large number are playing several targets may be used, the players 
being divided into as many groups as there are targets. Each group 
has three bean-bags and each player in turn throws all the bags at 
the target. Any bag stopping in the inner circle scores fifteen; in 
the next circle, ten; and in the outer one, five. A bag touching the 
line does not count. 

Hound and Rabbit. A considerable number of the players stand 
in groups of three with their hands on each other's shoulders, each 
group making a small circle which represents a hollow tree. In 
each tree is stationed a player who takes the part of rabbit. There 
should be one more rabbit than the number of trees. One player is 
chosen for hound. The hound chases the odd rabbit, who may take 
refuge in any tree, always running in and out under the arms of 
the players forming the tree. But no two rabbits may lodge in 
the same tree; so as soon as a hunted rabbit enters a tree the 
rabbit already there must run for another shelter. Whenever the 
hound catches a rabbit, they change places, the hound becoming 
a rabbit, and the rabbit the hound. Or the hound may at any 
time become a rabbit by finding shelter in an empty tree, where- 
upon the odd rabbit who is left without shelter must take the part 
of the hound. The trees should be scattered so that both rabbit 
and hound may have many opportunities to dodge in various 
directions. 

Poison. A circle is marked on the floor or ground, one third as 
large as one formed by the players clasping hands outside it. Each 
player tries to push or pull the others into the marked circle, but to 
keep out of it himself. Any one who touches the ground within the 
circle, if with only one foot, is said to be poisoned. As soon as this 
happens the player or players so poisoned become catchers. The 
other players cry "poison" and at once break the circle and run for 
safety, which consists in standing on wood. The merest chip will 
answer, but growing things are not counted. Any other material 
may be named as safety. Any one caught before reaching safety 



PLAY AND PHYSICAL EDUCATION 217 

or in changing places becomes a catcher, and when all have been 
caught the ring is once more surrounded. 

Butt in the ring. All but one of the players stand in a circle with 
hands firmly clasped. The odd player stands in the center and is 
the "bull." The "bull" tries to break through the ring by parting 
the hands of any two players. If he breaks through, the two players 
whose hands he parted immediately give chase to him, and the one 
catching him becomes the bull. 

Beetle. All the players but one form a circle with the odd player 
outside. The circle players hold their hands behind their backs 
ready to receive a knotted towel called the "beetle," which the odd 
player carries as he runs around the circle to the right. The circle 
players keep their eyes closed. The one with the "beetle" places 
it in the hands of one of the circle players, who immediately strikes 
his right-hand neighbor with it. The neighbor runs around outside 
the circle to the right and endeavors to regain his old place, the one 
with the "beetle" striking him as often as he has an opportunity. 
After the player regains the vacant place the game goes on as be- 
fore, the player who received the " beetle " giving it to some one else. 

Jump the shot. A bean bag or other soft article is tied to the end 
of a ten-foot rope. The players stand in a circle, with one in the 
center holding the rope. The center player swings the rope around 
to describe a large circle on the floor, with a sufficient length of rope 
to place the bag in line with the feet of those in the circle. The cir- 
cle players jump to avoid being caught around the ankles by the 
rope. Any one caught in this way must retire from the circle, the 
player winning who longest retains his place. 

Catch-and-pull tug-of-war. Any number of players may engage in 
this contest. A line is drawn down the middle of the playing-space. 
The players are divided into two parties and stand one party on 
either side of the line. The game starts on a signal and consists in 
catching hold of an opponent by any part of his body, as hand, 
arm or foot, reaching over the line and so pulling him across the 
boundary. Any number of players may come to his rescue and try 
to resist his being pulled over the line, either by pulling him in the 
opposite direction or by trying to secure a hold on one of the op- 
ponents. A player does not belong to the enemy until his entire 
body has been pulled over the line. He must then join his captors 
in trying to draw players over the line. The party wins which at 
the end of the time limit has the largest number of players. 

Three deep. The players pair off in couples and all but one couple 



218 HEALTH EDUCATION IN RURAL SCHOOLS 

form a circle with one partner behind his mate. Of the odd couple, 
one is "it" and the other is chased. The one who is chased may 
stop in front of any of the other couples; when he does this the rear 
player becomes the one chased. If the one who is "it" makes a 
catch, the one caught becomes "it" and tries to return the tag be- 
fore the catcher can stop in front of a couple. 

Play apparatus. There are few rural schools to-day that 
have any kind of play apparatus. This is something of minor 
importance if there is proper equipment for the games. 
Play apparatus, however, offers a larger variety of play 
opportunity and makes the playground more attractive to 
children. 1 Much of this apparatus may be constructed by 
the teacher and children as a part of the manual-training 
work. Such projects give an excellent opportunity for accu- 
rate measurement and the application of practical arith- 
metic. 

On the next page, are drawings illustrating how an ex- 
cellent bit of play apparatus was constructed by two pro- 
gressive teachers, Mr. and Mrs. Van Sample, of the Colum- 
bia School at Delta, Colorado, at a cost of $26.37 for 
material. The work was done by teachers and pupils. It is 
recommended that post-holes should be dug three feet deep 
and all corners and rough places be planed off. 

These are the materials needed: 

10 posts 4" X 4" X 16' 4 U-bolts of f " iron 

Ridse Dole I 2 P ieces 4 " X 6 " X 9 ' 4 bolts " X 4 *" 

Kidge pole j l pjece 4/ , x 6// x g , 



,, x 4/ , 

,, ( 2 pieces 4" X 4" X 14' 4 bolts *" X 8" 

\ 12 oak strips 1 J" X 2" X 1 J' 6 eye-bolts f" X 7" 

Teeter board I 4 P sts 4 " X 4 " X 5/ 65 feet f chain 

f 2 pieces clear 4" X 4" X 5' 6 open links 

Teeter-boards 2 planks 3" X 10" X 16' 1 gallon paint 

o- ot i 1 oak board 1" X 6" X 5' 2 rings 8" in diameter 
bwmg seat ,, ,, > 



1 The Ashland Manufacturing Company, Ashland, Ohio, manufactures 
an excellent bit of combination apparatus at a reasonable price. It is all 
steel and includes teeter, flying rings, trapeze and swing. It is called the 
Home Combination and would be attractive to small rural schools that can 
afford the cost. 




FIG. 28 

These drawings illustrate how effective play apparatus may be constructed 
by wide-awake teachers and pupils. 

(Reproduced from Normal Instructor and Primary Flans, June, 1918, with the 
permission of the publishers.) 



220 HEALTH EDUCATION IN RURAL SCHOOLS 

Every school may have a sand bin. Such a bin might well 
be six by eight feet, the dimensions to vary according to 
the number of children. It does not require a bottom if the 
ground underneath is hard and level, but there should be a 
moulding-board or seat around the edge. If possible the 
white sand of the seashore should be provided, but any 
good building sand may do. Since the sand bin is for the 
little children, it should be placed in a retired part of the 
yard where it will be out of the way of the larger children. 
It should also be in the shade or the sand will get too hot 
in summer. 

A few swings are desirable, but they are not a necessity 
and may be dispensed with entirely. They promote an 
individualistic kind of play which is altogether too common 
in the country, and they are a frequent cause of quarrels 
and accidents. Care should be taken to see that swings are 
well constructed and that they are placed in some corner 
of the school-grounds where there is little danger of children 
being struck in passing. 

See-saws are open to the same objections as swings. For 
exercise they are, of course, inferior to the slide or the hori- 
zontal bar. 

One of the most popular pieces of apparatus is a slide, 
which is almost always in use. Children are apt to quarrel 
over the swings, but they naturally take their places at the 
slide so there is no hard feeling. Sliding represents a natural 
interest of children, for they are forever sliding down banis- 
ters and cellar doors. It requires considerable pains and 
careful work to make a slide; so it is better to secure one 
from some good supply house. Many manufacturers of play 
apparatus make a metal slide, but these are not to be recom- 
mended, as they are apt to rust and ruin clothes; in winter 
they are too cold and in summer too hot. They are also 
usually too expensive for rural schools. An excellent wooden 




LUNCH-HOUR IN A RURAL SCHOOL IN OHIO 
(Courtesy of Miss Kauffman, Ohio State University.) 




A SLIDE is THE DELIGHT OF EVERY FLAYGROUND 

(Photograph by the author.) 




A RURAL SCHOOLHOUSE ix MICHIGAN, TYPICAL OF THE 21 4,000 ONE- 
ROOM RURAL SCHOOL BUILDINGS ix THE UNITED STATES 

Over one half the American children attend the rural schools which are as yet practically 

uninfluenced by the oncoming movement in health education. 

(Photograph by the author.) 




DEMONSTRATION RURAL SCHOOL OF THE FIRST DISTRICT NORMAL 
SCHOOL, KIRKSVILLE, MISSOURI 

A model one-room school in which country children are as well housed as children in our 
best city schools. (See Floor Plans, on pp. 24, 25.) 



PLAY AND PHYSICAL EDUCATION 221 

slide may be secured at a reasonable price from the Hill- 
Standard Manufacturing Company, Anderson, Indiana. 
(See illustration opposite p. 20.) 

Every school yard should have a horizontal bar. This is 
needed for the chinning contests for athletic badges. The 
ground beneath should be excavated and filled in with sand 
to prevent accidents and to encourage the use of the bar. 
Three bars placed respectively about five and a half feet, 
six feet, and six and a half feet from the ground are recom- 
mended. Curtis suggests that "a gas-pipe or a fork-handle 
run through two augur-holes in upright posts will do, if 
nothing better can be obtained." 

Running and jumping are favorite pastimes among all 
children. On city playgrounds regular running-tracks of cin- 
ders are being made, but this is quite unnecessary in the 
country, where a dirt track is about as good. If the track is 
stripped of sod, dragged, and rolled, it will be smooth and 
springy. If space permits, a track should be made by all 
means, even if it is not more than sixty or seventy feet long 
and five or six feet wide. A jwnping-pit should be made at 
the end of the track. This is made by excavating the earth 
for about fifteen feet and filling in with sand or sawdust. 
As the children usually enjoy the high jump more than the 
standing jump, a pair of jumping standards should be made 
or purchased. All that is needed is some kind of substantial 
base with uprights, marked with feet and inches, and a 
series of holes through which a bar or a string may be 
inserted. 

How and where play apparatus may be secured. Any 
teacher in an ordinary-sized rural school may obtain all the 
equipment for plays and games that is necessary if she is 
patient and secures the cooperation of the pupils and com- 
munity. Much of the apparatus can be made by the chil- 
dren, as has been pointed out. Making apparatus is edu- 



222 HEALTH EDUCATION IN RURAL SCHOOLS 

cative not only because the children use practical arith- 
metic and learn to handle tools, but also because they learn 
to be helpful socially. 1 Even if there is enough space for a 
good deal of apparatus, it would not be wise to get it all at 
once, as securing one piece at a time will be far more inter- 
esting to the children. Money to buy equipment may be 
secured frequently by school entertainments. Apparatus 
purchased from a reliable firm has the advantage, of course, 
of being stable and durable. Beautifully illustrated cata- 
logues of play equipment may be secured from the following 
reliable firms: 

The Ashland Manufacturing Company, Ashland, Ohio. 

The Hill-Standard Manufacturing Company, Anderson, In- 
diana. 

The American Playground Device Company, Anderson, In- 
diana. 

Athletic badges for boys. The physical development of 
boys may be greatly stimulated by conferring some distinc- 
tive honor upon those who attain certain degrees of excel- 
lence in athletics. The Playground and Recreation Associa- 
tion of America has suggested the following standards which 
every boy ought to be able to attain: 

First test 

Pull-up (chinning) 4 times 

Standard broad jump 5 feet 9 inches 

60-yards dash 8f seconds 

Second Test 

Pull-up (chinning) 6 times 

Standing broad jump 6 feet 6 inches 

60-yards dash 8 seconds 

100-yards dash 14 seconds 

1 Teachers will find some good suggestions in Dr. Arnold's Some Inex- 
pensive Playground Apparatus, a pamphlet which may be secured by writ- 
ing to the Playground Association of America, 1 Madison Avenue, New 
York City. See also Henry S. Curtis. The Reorganized School Playground. 
United States Bureau of Education, Bulletin No. 14. 



PLAY AND PHYSICAL EDUCATION 223 

Third test 

Pull-up (chinning) 9 times 

Running high jump 4 feet 4 inches 

220-yards run 28 seconds 

The following rules govern all final competitions: 

No boy is permitted to receive more than one badge in one year. 

It is necessary to qualify in all three events in any one class in 
order to win a badge. 

There shall be but one trial in chinning, one in the dashes, and 
three in the jumps. 

Boys who are able to pass these tests and are properly 
certified by their teachers may secure a badge from the 
Playground and Recreation Association of America. These 
badges are made of bronze and are of simple and beautiful 
design. It is recommended by the Association that every 
boy pay for his own badge. The price for each badge is 
twenty cents. 

The Association suggests that when these badges are pre- 
sented there be some kind of public occasion so that the 
boys who receive them may have their sense of loyalty to 
country deepened, and also to impress the other members 
of the community who witness the ceremony. In most rural 
schools there would probably b.e so few candidates for honors 
that a special kind of occasion would scarcely be appropri- 
ate, but they might be conferred at the last day of school 
or at some other public entertainment. 

Boys who receive the badges are asked to repeat the fol- 
lowing declaration of allegiance to America: 

I will honor my country. 

I will do my best to build up my country's free institutions. 

I will not disgrace my city or my school. 

I will try to keep myself strong for my country's service. 

Every teacher should send five cents to the Playground 
and Recreation Association of America, 1 Madison Avenue, 



224 HEALTH EDUCATION IN RURAL SCHOOLS 

New York City, for a copy of the pamphlet Athletic Badge 
Test for Boys. 

Athletic badges for girls. Girls in the country are, as has 
been noted, probably in greater need of physical develop- 
ment than boys. The athletic badge contests for girls, then, 
is even more important for them than for the boys. The 
Playground and Recreation Association of America has 
adopted these standards which every normal girl ought to 
attain: 

First test 

All-up Indian-club race 30 seconds 

or potato race 42 seconds 

Basket-ball goal throwing 2 goals, 6 trials 

Balancing 24 feet, 2 trials 

Second test 

All-up Indian-club race 28 seconds 

or potato race 39 seconds 

Basket-ball goal throwing 3 goals, 6 trials 

Balancing (bean-bag or book on head) .... 24 feet, 2 trials 

Third test 

Running and catching 20 seconds 

Throwing for distance, basket-ball 42 feet, 

or volley-ball . 44 feet 

Volley-ball serving 3 in 5 trials 

What has been said in a general way about the contests 
for boys applies also to girls. The Playground and Recrea- 
tion Association of America, 1 Madison Avenue, New York 
City, also publishes a pamphlet entitled Athletic Badge Tests 
for Girls, which may be secured for five cents. 1 

The organizing of these contests in rural schools will do 
much to inspire an interest in healthy sports. It will also 
attract the attention of the community. 

Getting the community to play. One way to make play 

1 This Association also publishes many other valuable pamphlets on 
play. Some of these are free, while others may be obtained at nominal prices. 



PLAY AND PHYSICAL EDUCATION 225 

popular among children and the people of a community is 
to set aside some special day or afternoon for play, and in- 
vite the people of the neighborhood to be present, and per- 
haps take part. 

Rural schools are beginning to have play festivals where 
there is an exhibition of playground activities such as folk- 
dancing, singing, drills, and games. This requires careful 
preparation by the teacher. A program must be made out 
and rehearsed several times. 

The following is a program exactly as given at a rural 
school : l 

SPRING FESTIVAL 
June 2, 1916 

1. Processional Crowning of the Goddess of Flowers, or the May 

Queen 

2. "Queen of the May-time" Sung by All Grades 

3. Dance of Greeting "O, A-Hunting We Will Go" First Grade 

4. "Pop Goes the Weasel" Merry-go-round Second Grade 

5. "Oats and Beans" Mountain March Song, 

"Dancing Song" Third Grade 

6. "Ace of Diamonds " Fourth Grade 

7. "Brownie Polka," "How Do You Do" Fifth Grade 

8. "Morris Dance" Eighth Grade 

Q. Song, " May- time" Ribbon Play Seventh Grade 

10. May-Pole Dance 

Sometimes one day is devoted to a field day where the 
boys and girls may take the various tests for athletic badges. 
There might also be jumping, racing, and matched games. 
Such a program should not be confined entirely to the chil- 
dren of the school. The older boys and girls who have left 
school and the men and women of the neighborhood should 
also be invited to participate in events arranged especially 
for them. On such an occasion there might also be an inter- 
school contest in which two or more schools might compete. 
The inter-school contest is especially desirable in the country 
1 Wilkinson, Rural School Management, p. 159. 



226 HEALTH EDUCATION IN RURAL SCHOOLS 

because so much of the country amusement is individualistic. 
Country boys and girls need to learn to cooperate, as do also 
rural communities. 

If a field day is arranged, the people of the community 
should be invited to come and bring their dinners. Here is a 
chance for everybody to get together and have an enjoyable 
time, to get the real spirit of play. If such occasions are 
handled successfully, the teacher will find a spirit of help- 
fulness on the part of school board and community that will 
make it comparatively easy to get appropriations or to 
raise money for play apparatus or other necessary school 
equipment. 

Every school needs an American flag. As a means of 
teaching patriotism, and also of imparting a pleasant and 
inspiring flavor to all school activities, such as field days, 
athletic events, holidays, etc., every school should possess 
a good-sized American flag. This may float above the school- 
house or from a flagstaff. If there is a large playground it 
may be especially desirable to have a flagstaff. In rural 
communities where there is timber and in a school where 
there are older boys, it will ordinarily be easy for the teacher 
to get patrons of the school to furnish the timber and with 
the help of the boys to prepare and install the pole. Excel- 
lent removable galvanized steel flagpoles of varying lengths 
may be purchased at a reasonable price from the Newark 
Steel Post Company, Newark, New Jersey. 

The flag-raising may easily be made an event of unusual 
importance to bring the community together. The children 
may speak patriotic pieces, stirring songs may be sung, and 
games involving both children and parents may be played. 

Goal of school, permanent interest in healthful physical 
activity. Pupils in their work in physiology and hygiene 
should get some understanding of why play and vigorous 
physical activity are healthful, but if the influence of the 



PLAY AND PHYSICAL EDUCATION 227 

school ends there, the time spent will be almost valueless. 
Boys and girls must in some way get such a love for whole- 
some, out-of-door games, sports, and diversions that these 
interests will abide throughout life. One of the astonishing 
things about most country people is their lack of enjoyment 
of the out-of-doors. Only a few of the many species of birds 
or varieties of flowers that are found in profusion in country 
lanes and woods are known by them. They do not recog- 
nize and love the commonest things in the world of nature. 
Besides introducing many new games and new play equip- 
ment to the children, the teacher has a chance to open up 
interests which will tend to make children take long walks 
into the woods and fields to observe the wonders all about 
them. Lessons in geography, general science, nature-study, 
and even hygiene may be studied better on walks and excur- 
sions. If we wish to arouse a permanent interest in such 
healthful physical activity as walking, we must get chil- 
dren interested in the great out-of-door world so that they 
will visit it voluntarily. 

CLASS EXERCISES 

1. How would you meet the objection that children do not need to play 
at school because they have enough exercise at home after school and 
on Saturday? 

2. It is believed by many authorities that children in the country do not 
know how to play many games, and those which they do play are not 
always best for their physical development. Visit a rural school and 
ask the teacher to get the children to write a composition telling about 
the games that they play and the ones they play most. What per- 
centage of these games would help to arouse a spirit of cooperation? 
What percentage is distinctly valuable for the physical development 
of country children? What important games are seldom if ever 
played? 

3. Write to some manufacturers of play apparatus (see page 222) for 
catalogues. Select the play apparatus necessary to equip the yard of 
some particular rural school. Estimate the cost. If you could buy 
only one piece of apparatus, what would it be? 

4. Let every member of the class report on the play activities in schools 



228 HEALTH EDUCATION IN RURAL SCHOOLS 

visited. How many have play apparatus? In what condition did you 
find apparatus? Were the children being taught new games? What 
were they? How much time, if any, was being devoted to physical 
exercise indoors? To what extent were the teachers realizing their 
opportunities in promoting wholesome physical activities? 

5. Examine some good books on folk-songs and dances (see page 202) 
and select some half-dozen songs and dances which you would teach 
children in rural schools. 

6. What arguments would you advance to support the proposition that 
the rural school ought to be a center for social recreation? 

7. Should the play spirit be introduced into the regular school work? 
Why? 

8. Draw up plans and specifications for play apparatus which children 
might make. 

9. Collect statistics showing the benefits derived from playgrounds in 
cities. Would you expect these same advantages to result from the 
introduction of playgrounds into the rural schools? Explain. 

10. What are you doing for daily recreation in the open air. Are you 
spending enough time? Consult H. S. Courtis's Recreation for Teachers 
(The Macmillan Company, New York, 1918) for suggestions on 
recreation. 



CHAPTER XII 

POSTURE AND HEALTH 

Only in the perfectly erect position of the body are the great organs 
of the trunk heart, lungs, stomach, liver, kidneys, and other vis- 
cera that constitute the main working machinery of the body 
in a position to perform their work to the best advantage. 

(Jessie H. Bancroft.) 

The seriousness of bad posture. Bad posture is too often 
regarded as a harmless habit. If any effort is made to cor- 
rect this tendency at home or even in the school, it is fre- 
quently not because health seems so directly concerned, but 
because it detracts from one's personal appearance. This 
latter view is, of course, correct, and needs to be considered 
as one of the reasons why children should be educated in 
proper posture; but this reason, important as it may seem, 
is of minor importance; for bad posture is one of the worst 
foes of health and efficiency. 

In the preceding chapter, it was pointed out that health 
and vigor depend on the exercise of the vital organs of the 
body. Anything that interferes with the normal functioning 
of respiration, circulation, and digestion is a menace to 
health. The boy or girl with stooped shoulders (this is the 
most common defect) and a tendency to become more round- 
shouldered as time goes on has formidable obstacles to hap- 
piness and success. 

The effect of posture upon respiration is easily demon- 
strated. When there is faulty posture there is a lessening of 
the respiratory movements and also of the intake of air. 
This is especially noticeable in lateral asymmetry (a condi- 
tion in which one shoulder is carried higher than the other). 
The ribs are then crowded close together between a low 
shoulder and a low hip on one side while they are proper- 



230 HEALTH EDUCATION IN RURAL SCHOOLS 

tionately separated between a high shoulder and a high hip 
on the other side. This wide separation of the ribs on the 
side of the high shoulder interferes with their activity and 
with the entrance of the tidal air, particularly at the apex 
of the lung on that side. The inactivity of this part of the 
lung leads to a general weakness of the tissue which makes 
the invasion of disease easy. It is at this point, according 
to reputable physicians, that tuberculosis begins its work. 
There is abundant evidence to prove that bad posture in- 
vites tuberculosis. 

The influence of bad posture upon the organs of digestion 
is almost as vicious. Habits that produce round shoulders 
and forward drooping of the head also lessen the amount of 
space necessary for the functioning of the organs of the ab- 
dominal cavity and lead to their displacement. This dis- 
placement is especially favored in the case of those who are 
of tall and slender build. The folds and turns in the digestive 
tube are deepened by constant pressure. The canal being 
partially closed in places, the natural onward movement of 
its contents is obstructed. This gives a chance for bacteria 
to collect and multiply, and much of the poison, instead of 
being thrown off by the bowels, is carried into the general 
tissues of the body. "As a result," says Dr. Mosher, 1 "con- 
stipation, diarrhoea, flatulence, disturbances of circulation, 
headaches, nervous irritability, and, most marked of all, fa- 
tigue out of proportion to effort expended, lessen the efficiency 
of the individual and often make life a burden." 

According to Bancroft, "erect carriage of the body is 
necessary (1) for full vigor and health; (2) to prevent waste 
of energy in maintaining the upright position in any of the 
activities of life; and (3) with children to admit of proper 
growth and development." 

1 Eliza M. Mosher. The Relation of Posture to Health, Proceedings, Amer- 
ican School Hygiene Association, vol. vr, p. 98. 



POSTURE AND HEALTH 



231 



Reference has already been made to the prevalence of 
bad posture among country children. Enough has been said 
about the evil effects of bad posture to indicate that posture 
is one of the important problems of every teacher in rural 



Incorrect posture (weak 
or fatigue posture). The 
neck and trunk form a zigzag 
line. 



Correct posture (strong, Exaggerated posture (rig- 
healthful, beautiful, and effi- id, ugly, and incorrect ). This 
cient). The neck and trunk posture can be held only for a 
form a straight, vertical line. short time with great effort. 

FIG. 29. DRAWINGS ILLUSTRATING POSTURE 

(From Wall Chart issued by the American Posture League, Inc.) 



schools. Not until the teacher realizes that it is just as 
important for children to be educated in proper posture as 
it is for them to read are definite results likely to be attained. 
Correct posture defined. The American Posture League, 
an association formed to further good habits of posture, 
defines the correct standing position as one in which the 



232 HEALTH EDUCATION IN RURAL SCHOOLS 

long axis of the trunk of the body, including the neck and 
head, is in a vertical line. In poor posture the neck, head, 
and trunk, instead of being in one continuous vertical line, 
are broken into three zigzag lines. (See Fig. 29.) 

The correct posture may be estimated by what is known 
as the vertical-line test. A line is dropped from the front of 
the ear to the forward part of the foot. This will show 
whether the vertical line parallels the main segments of the 
body (neck, head, and trunk). Instead of using a line it 
may be more convenient to use a window-pole. (See illus- 
tration opposite p. 233.) 

Sitting positions are to be judged in much the same way. 
When in correct position the axes of trunk, neck, and head 
should be in continuous line. The same relation of parts 
should be maintained whether the child is leaning back- 
ward in repose or forward in study. The chest should be 
kept broad and open, and as the child leans forward the 
bend should come at the hip joints and never from the 
waist. 

The teacher's problem. Those who are familiar with the 
physical condition of school-children say that there is an 
army of round-shouldered boys and girls in our schools. 
Their condition is a reproach to boasted systems of educa- 
tion. How is the teacher to face this practical problem? 
First of all, something must be done to eliminate those 
conditions making for such defects. Second, an effort 
should be made to correct bad posture. 

Lack of proper exercise cause of bad posture. To grapple 
with the problem of incorrect posture, the teacher needs to 
understand, first of all, that this defect is due to the im- 
proper balance in the play of antagonistic muscles. As is 
well known every muscle has its antagonist. For every 
muscle which pulls in one direction there is another which 
pulls in the exact opposite. There is one set of muscles to 




ll 



-3 .1 



1 



IS 





i 



o 



p 

g 
MR 




O W H 

Q 02 -5 

03 P OJ -O* 

O O -> 

- - II 



W 2 .a 

|g w fe 




POSTURE AND HEALTH 233 

pull the arm up and still another set to pull it down. The 
contraction of the great pectoral or breast muscle draws the 
shoulder forward and nearer the breast-bone, while the con- 
traction of the muscles of the back pulls it in just the other 
direction or backwards and nearer the backbone. The de- 
ficient use of the back muscles, with or without an excessive 
use of the breast muscles, will in time lead to a permanent 
condition in which there will be an abnormal elongation of 
the back muscles and a corresponding shortening of the 
breast muscles. Unfortunately most of the activities of life 
involve greater use of the breast muscles than of the back 
muscles. The farmer chopping wood, the woman washing 
dishes, and the boy or girl studying at a school desk are 
using the breast muscles rather than the back muscles. 
During the plastic period of childhood and youth the over- 
use of the breast muscles will finally lead to habits which 
cannot be readily overcome. It is during these periods that 
bad posture can best be prevented and corrected. Both 
prevention and correction depend on the proper use of the 
muscles which operate at the shoulder. When there is a 
special defect to be overcome, special exercises will usually 
be necessary to contract the upper back muscles. 

Overcoming the mental indifference of pupils. The mus- 
cles involved in acquiring and maintaining correct posture 
are under the control of the will; therefore, unless there is a 
proper attitude of mind toward the question of posture one 
may fall into bad habits, or, being already in bad habits, 
there is less likelihood of then* being corrected. Unless the 
teacher is able to enlist the cooperation of the pupil so that 
he has a keen desire to acquire correct posture, the prob- 
ability of success is slight. Teachers find that the vast 
majority of their pupils are quite indifferent to their pos- 
ture. This is found not only in our rural schools, but also 
in high schools and even in colleges and universities. One 



234 HEALTH EDUCATION IN RURAL SCHOOLS 



reason for this indifference is ignorance of the consequences 
of bad posture. Even little children can understand that if 
they stoop, the lungs have less room for their work. The 
health motive should be appealed to as strongly as possible, 
but children are even more apt to respond to the desire to 
have a good appearance and command the admiration of 

the teacher and other pu- 
pils. Most pupils do not 
realize how badly they are 
deformed through bad pos- 
ture, and what a difference 
is made in their appearance 
by the simple act of lifting 
the chest. (See Fig. 30.) 
If the teacher has in mind 
the standard of correct 
posture adopted by the 
American Posture League, 

FIG. 30. EFFECTS IN APPEARANCE she will be able to collect 

many pictures from maga- 
zines and books showing 
both correct and incorrect 
posture. At this writing 
when there is such a uni- 
versal interest in military affairs, it will not be difficult to 
get some good illustrations of soldiers with excellent car- 
riage. Put these pictures on the bulletin board and ask the 
children to point out those individuals of finest appearance 
and also to tell you why. Children may also be encouraged 
to collect these pictures. The most difficult step is, of course, 
to get the children to become that which they have learned 
to admire. The right mental attitude is not sufficient. The 
children must be trained. 
Educating the consciousness of correct posture. We 





APPEARANCE 
T F 



The habit of frequently lifting the chest is 
often the means of molding the body into normal 
shape. 

(From Walter's Principles of Health Control, 
with the permission of D. C. Heath & Co.) 



POSTURE AND HEALTH 235 

know what our bodily posture is at any one time because 
of sensations which we receive from sense organs located in 
our muscles, tendons, and joints. The person who habitu- 
ally carries his shoulders in the right position, if he happens 
by chance to take a wrong posture, is warned by the unusual 
sensations from his muscles that something is wrong; he 
feels uncomfortable and at once assumes the correct posi- 
tion. Children who have never carried their shoulders back 
know nothing about the correct posture because they re- 
ceive no sensations of correct posture. They are as ignorant 
of these sensations as is a man blind from birth of the 
beauties of the landscape or the colors of the spectrum. 
Seeing pictures of good posture may be helpful in inspiring 
the right attitude of mind, but unless pupils receive the sen- 
sations which accompany good posture, they will not know 
whether they have attained the correct bodily position or 
not. 

Training in posture. Teachers who have seriously at- 
tempted to correct bad posture have resorted to nagging, 
the worst possible method; for, as Bancroft says, "Nothing 
could be more unjust or even cruel to a child than to expect 
him to correct, solely by spasmodic effort of his will, faults 
incidental to the shape, weaknesses, and development of 
his body in the process of growth. Systematic training, 
especially designed to cultivate the right contours, to 
strengthen weak muscles, and to establish correct neuro- 
muscular habits, is the only effective way of reinforcing and 
training the will power that he must exert to establish the 
right habits." 

If the child is really to know what correct posture is, he 
must get into the proper bodily position as soon as possible. 
Many children will be able to take this position by simply 
following a few simple directions. But those children who 
lack power and control must literally be placed in proper 



236 HEALTH EDUCATION IN RURAL SCHOOLS 

position by the teacher. To get the first-mentioned class of 
children into position Bancroft recommends that children 
be instructed to stand with arms stretched "directly side- 
wise at shoulder level with the palms turned downward, 
and, holding the arms there, sway forward from the ankles 
so that the weight of the body is nearly or quite over the 
balls of the feet, not, however, rising on the toes, but keep- 
ing the heels on the ground." An effort to draw the neck 
backward (chin inward) which may be necessary to bring 
the neck into an upright position, and also to draw in at 
the waist line, will improve the standing position. Keeping 
head, chest, and shoulders just in these positions, the arms 
should then be dropped to the sides. This will leave the 
body in a correct standing position. 

If the child cannot of his own accord get the correct posi- 
tion, the teacher must see that he is placed in position. The 
point of difficulty is invariably the upper part of the trunk. 
The problem is to get this part forward without getting an 
exaggerated position. Special attention should be given to 
children of this type until the weak muscles have been 
strengthened. Playing volley-ball, using the parallel bars, 
and other outdoor games and sports suggested in chapter 
XI will help prevent and correct defects. 1 

Not only should children have drills in standing, but also 
in sitting. The sitting drill should be taken every day. 
There should be practice in the three ways of sitting 
erect, leaning forward from the hips, and leaning backward. 

The cooperation of the home. In every school the teacher 

1 Every teacher who is ambitious really to do some corrective work in 
posture should have access to Bancroft's The Posture of School-Children. 
It is a thorough-going discussion of the whole matter and has many exer- 
cises especially adapted to the correction of posture. Classroom exercises 
especially suitable for corrective work may be found in the inexpensive 
volume (paper-bound edition), Keene's Manual of Physical Training, 
Games, and Mass Competition, World Book Company, Yonkers, New York. 



POSTURE AND HEALTH 237 

will find pupils who need special exercises at home to 
strengthen weak back muscles. Most parents, if the matter 
is well presented, would be glad to lend then- active support 
to see that the required exercises are practiced. This cooper- 
ation may be brought about by talking over the problem 
with the parents when the teacher calls at their homes, or by 
bringing up the whole question of posture at some meeting 
of the parent-teacher association. When there is a marked 
deformity parents should be encouraged to consult a physi- 
cian. 

The kind of exercises that are required will depend, of 
course, on the nature of the muscular weakness. Every 
teacher should have some reliable book on gymnastics and 
physical exercise for reference. Chapter XIV in Bancroft's 
The Posture of School-Children is especially valuable on 
home exercises for the correction of poor posture. It is 
impossible to consider the problem of home exercises in 
detail. Reference will be made to two or three exercises 
which tend to correct some of the most common defects. 

Home exercises. As has been observed before, a common 
defect among country children is round-shoulderedness. 
Something needs to be done to correct the position of the 
shoulder blades. For this Bancroft recommends the fol- 
lowing exercise: 

Swing the arms forward to shoulder level and bend the elbows 
so as to bring the finger tips to the top of the shoulders, with the 
elbows pointing forward. This is the starting position (see illus- 
tration opposite p. 233), and the fingers remain on the shoulders 
throughout this particular exercise. From this position, lift the 
elbows and describe with them a semi-circle at the sides, upwards 
backward, and downward. This closing position should leave the 
upper arms close at the sides and should contract the muscles that 
draw the shoulder blades close together; that is, inward toward 
the spine and flat upon the back. 

Take the movement deliberately, then swing the elbows directly 



238 HEALTH EDUCATION IN RURAL SCHOOLS 

to the front again, the finger tips remaining on the shoulders, and 
repeat the upward, backward, and downward motion of the elbows, 
describing with them a semicircle in one continuous movement. 

The incorrect position of the shoulder blades is usually 
associated with a forward slope of the neck. This is to be 
remedied by strengthening the muscles on the back of the 
neck and shoulders that hold the upper part of the spine 
erect. Bancroft recommends the following exercise : 

Still holding the correct standing position as a foundation, and 
placing the hands on the hips, with thumbs backward and elbows 
pointing straight to the sides, relax the head and drop it backward. 
(See illustration opposite p. 233.) This is the preliminary move- 
ment and is one of relaxation, having no effort in it. From this 
position lift the head upward and draw the chin strongly inward, 
as though making a double chin. The effect is to straighten the 
forward slope of the neck, as with a checkrein, so that its column 
is upright instead of inclining forward. Relax the muscles again, 
letting the head drop backward, and repeat the strong upward 
pull. 

This exercise like the previous one should be repeated 
from four to ten times in succession. 

A triple test for posture. In the schools of New York City, 
under the direction of Bancroft, children are tested on pos- 
ture once a month. First, pupils are asked to stand. The 
teacher notices the figure of each pupil as a whole to see 
whether it is straight or zigzag. This would, of course, be an 
inadequate test if taken alone, because some pupils are able 
to maintain a proper standing position for a short time, but 
soon lose it when the mind is diverted to other things. Only 
those passing the test will remain standing. The second 
part of the examination is the marching test. Children are 
put through marching exercises for four or five minutes. An 
effort is made to distract the attention from posture by drills, 
marking time, etc. As this goes on, the teacher will notice 
that some of the old habits of bad posture, such as letting 



POSTURE AND HEALTH 239 

head drop and chest sink, will reassert themselves. As the 
faults occur the pupils will drop out of line. In the third 
part of the test those who have been successful in the other 
two will be put through the exercise test, which is intended 
to show the strength and coordination of those muscles that 
are weak in poor posture, especially those that hold the 
spine erect. Many of the exercises found in any practical 
book of gymnastics would suffice. Those pupils who again 
show weaknesses should be dropped from the group. 

There seems to be no good reason why any teacher in 
rural schools should not be able to give these tests if she 
studies the matter carefully, and particularly if she has the 
aid of Bancroft's The Posture of the School-Child. Mac- 
millan Co., N. Y. 

Marks and promotion in posture. Following the New 
York plan, the teacher may designate those who have 
passed the triple test Division 1, and those who failed, 
Division 2. Membership in Division 1 should mean that 
those pupils have a passing mark. Every child should keep 
a record of his own rating each month, and the teacher 
should have a complete record for the class. Class percent- 
ages may be kept by finding the proportion of those taking 
the test who passed. For example, if three pupils out of 
twelve tested passed, the class rating would be twenty-five 
per cent. These class percentages for each month should 
be posted on the bulletin board so that the pupils may know 
exactly what progress, if any, is being made. 1 

Such a plan speedily fires the rivalry and ambition of the 
pupils. Everybody is naturally anxious to get into the 
favored section. Teachers may foster this spirit in many 
ways by giving badges to those who pass in posture or grant- 

1 While it is not to be expected that children will always be in correct 
positions, yet their habitual positions should be correct. No pupil should 
finally be passed in hygiene, really admitted to membership in Division 1, 
until he has an habitually correct sitting posture. 



240 HEALTH EDUCATION IN RURAL SCHOOLS 

ing them special privileges. With a real desire to improve 
in posture, boys and girls may be depended upon to take a 
greater interest in gymnastic exercises, home exercises, and 
habitually correct positions. Since the tests lead the teacher 
to focus her attention on the defects of those who are weak 
in posture, she may give them special attention. Teachers 
who have tried these methods report much enthusiasm and 
tangible progress on the part of their pupils. 

Good posture pins. To stimulate an interest in good pos- 
ture the American Posture League has issued a pin for good 
posture. The design shows an American Indian in profile 
on a small oval. The pin is made in bronze and silver for 
two grades of award, the conditions of which are as fol- 
lows: 

The posture is to be judged according to (a) the vertical line 
test illustrated on the League's wall charts, 1 which posture is to 
be held (b) during the triple test for endurance in posture. 

The triple test consists of judging the posture in (1) standing, 
(2) marching for at least three minutes, (3) corrective exercises, 
including stretching the arms forward and upward. A candidate 
must hold good posture throughout all three parts of this test 
taken in rapid succession to be considered as passing the triple test. 

Bronze pin. A candidate to be eligible for a bronze pin must pass 
the triple test for posture once a month for three consecutive 
months. 

Silver pin. A candidate to be eligible for a silver pin must: 

(1) Pass the triple test for posture once a month for six con- 
secutive months and have a rating of A for habitual good 
posture, or 

(2) Have previously won the bronze pin, pass the triple test for 
four additional consecutive months and have a rating of 
A for habitual good posture. 

Bronze pins are 20 cents each and silver pins 25 cents each. 

Teachers who have a list of candidates who have passed 
the test should send to the American Posture League, Inc., 

1 See p. 231. 



POSTURE AND HEALTH 241 

1 Madison Avenue, New York City, the order for pins and 
a certificate which the League will furnish on application. 

As in the case of the athletic badges to which we have 
referred, it would be desirable to present these pins to the 
boys and girls on some public occasion so that it might 
stimulate other pupils to win like honors and also to impress 
the community with its importance. 

The prevention of incorrect posture. The prevention of 
improper posture is even more fundamental than its cor- 
rection, although we have considered the latter problem 
first. There is necessarily some overlapping of the two 
points of view in actual practice, as the elimination of 
many of the causes of incorrect posture will not only pre- 
vent, but help to correct as well. Some of the contributing 
causes of bad posture are (1) improper schoolroom equip- 
ment and sanitation; (2) undesirable habits of the children; 
and (3) ill-health. Let us consider each of these in turn. 

Schoolroom seats. A visit to any rural school will soon 
convince the intelligent visitor that the child is usually 
adapted to the seat rather than the seat to the child. Chil- 
dren sitting in seats that are too large or too small, or are 
otherwise misfits, are easy to find. Sometimes this is due 
to non-adjustable seats, but it is not infrequently found in 
schoolrooms where the furniture is adjustable, but has not 
been adjusted. 

The chief criticism of our school seating is that, either 
because of the seat itself or because of lack of adjustment, 
the pupil is forced into a position that fosters spinal curva- 
ture and a cramped chest. Some of the common defects in 
school seating, according to Dr. D. F. Lincoln, 1 are as fol- 
lows: 

First, the desk may be too high for the child's sitting height, 
causing an excessive elevation of the shoulder of the hand which 
1 From Barry's The Hygiene of the Schoolroom, pp. 41, 42. 



242 HEALTH EDUCATION IN RURAL SCHOOLS 

the child will write with, usually the right. In attempting to get 
the elbow on the high desk, the shoulder is elevated, the correspond- 
ing one lowered, and the spinal column tilted. 

Second, the desk may be too low, causing the child to stoop 
forward. This causes the neck to flex upon the body, producing 
interference of circulation from the head, congestion resulting, 
which interferes with the eyes. This same fault causes round 
shoulders from the continued stooping to be sufficiently near the 
work. 

Third, desk too far from seat, with stoop of the body, injuring 
the eyes. Danger here is in injuring the health by compression 
of the abdomen and chest, dyspepsia, small chests and round 
shoulders. 

Fourth, flat desk lid, interfering with freedom of writing, dis- 
advantageous as respects receiving the light and compelling the 
child to hold up his book in order to see. 

Fifth, seats too high, so that the feet are not supported and the 
legs grow weary. 

Sixth, insufficient support for the back, causing fatigue and 
improper attitudes and consequent tendency for the spine to yield 
and take a side curve. 

Seventh, seat not hollowed suitably, causing pain and restless- 
ness. 1 

Eighth, a well-proportioned desk and seat, but not adapted to 
size of the child using it. 

If a child is properly seated he should be able to rest his 
feet comfortably on the floor without pressing upon the 
nerves and blood-vessels under the knee, the seat should 
be so shaped as to encourage the sitter to sit with pelvis 
well back in the chair, the small of the back should be well 
supported, the distance of the chair from the desk, its height 
and slant, should be such that bending forward will not 
be encouraged. 

The American Posture League, after a number of thor- 
ough-going and scientific investigations and experiments, 

1 Such a seat also leads the child to slide down in his chair bringing pres- 
sure on both ends of the spinal column. (Author.) See illustration opposite 
this page. 




ADENOID GROWTH AND ITS EFFECTS 

E shows about the level of the custachian tube connecting the throat with the ear. The 
adenoid growth (A} blocks up, or causes mucus and swelling to block, the eustachian tube 
and induces deafness among other troubles. 

(From Winslow's The Prerenlion of Disease. Courtesy of \V. B. Saunders Company.) 






BEFORE AND AFTER REMOVAL OF ADENOIDS 

(From Terman's The Hygiene of the School Child. With the permission of Houghton Mifflin 
Company.) 



POSTURE AND HEALTH 243 

has designed a school seat which is now on the market. It 
is without doubt the most hygienic seat available. 

Any of the adjustable seats on the market are quite sat- 
isfactory if they are kept adjusted. 

What the teacher may do. The teachers or prospective 
teachers who read this book are not apt to find in every 
case the most hygienic school furniture in their schoolrooms, 
but it is possible to do something to make the school seat in 
use more adaptable to the children. One of the things which 
every teacher might hope to do, if she stays long enough in 
any particular school, is to get the school officials to put in 
modern seats if they are lacking. But until that day arrives 
she should do what she can in the interest of the health of 
her pupils. If none of the school furniture is adjustable, 
the problem is difficult, but even then the teacher may put 
children in those seats that are best fitted to them. If school 
seats are too far from the desks or are too close, it will be a 
simple matter, usually with the help of the older boys, to 
put them where they belong and fasten them to the floor. 
If some of the children have their feet swinging in mid-air 
(a serious condition often found in rural schools) blocks may 
possibly be found or made, to put under the feet. 

If a few adjustable seats are found, they should be used 
only for those pupils who do not find themselves adjusted 
to the other seats. 

But even in schoolrooms that are entirely equipped with 
adjustable furniture, shocking misfits are frequently seen. 
This may be due to the teacher's lack of appreciation of the 
importance of posture, lack of knowledge of the require- 
ments of hygienic seating, or carelessness. Misfits in a school- 
room thoroughly supplied with adjustable furniture may be 
as violent as in the schoolroom furnished with non-adjust- 
able seats and desks. At the very beginning of the teacher's 
work she should inspect all seats and desks to see that they 



244 HEALTH EDUCATION IN RURAL SCHOOLS 

are properly adjusted. It would be a good plan to look over 
all furniture carefully at the beginning of each term. 

Fatigue and posture. But even when a schoolroom is 
equipped with the most approved furniture and kept care- 




FIG. 31. CORRECT SITTING POSTURE MAIN- s 

TAINED WITHOUT ARTIFICIAL SUPPORT 

A valuable exercise for developing good postural habit 
and for strengthening the back muscles. (From Walter's 
The Principles of Health Control, with the permission of 
D. C. Heath & Co.) 



fully adjusted, children may form bad habits of posture be- 
cause they become very much fatigued. It should never be 
forgotten that children are by nature exceedingly active 
and that after remaining inactive for a short time they be- 
come restless and fatigued. If they are not allowed to 
change their positions and move freely about, they are in- 



POSTURE AND HEALTH 245 

clined to slip down in their seats, bend over their desks, and 
assume other incorrect positions. 

The work of the school should be planned so as to bring 
in a variety of muscular activity. One or two short periods 
of two or three minutes' duration might well be taken be- 
tween recesses for gymnastic exercises and free play by the 
entire school. Recitation periods ought also to be planned 
to bring in muscular activity. English may be taught 
through dramatization, arithmetic through games, and in 
all recitations the blackboard may be used freely. By the 
application of such methods the tendency to get improper 
habits of posture will be lessened. 

The schoolroom temperature and posture. A high tem- 
perature hi the schoolroom has about the same effect as 
fatigue. Restlessness, nervousness, and flabbiness of mus- 
cles are the usual accompaniments. If there is excellent 
ventilation and the air is kept cool, the muscles have more 
tonicity and it is easier to keep in proper position. The 
teacher who does not see that the temperature of the school- 
room is about sixty-eight degrees is doing much to under- 
mine her best lessons and training in posture. 

Habits conducive to incorrect posture. In connection 
with the school procedure there are several common habits 
that should be avoided. Children who are required to stand 
for several minutes during a recitation are often seen to 
stand so that the weight is shifted almost entirely to one 
foot. (See Fig. 32.) In such a position the left hip is lowered 
and the left shoulder raised, thus producing a bending of 
the spine to the left. This posture tends to produce a dis- 
placement of the pelvic organs and a lateral curvature of 
the spine. The recitation posture should be with one foot 
slightly in advance of the other so that the weight may be 
transferred from one foot to the other without any distor- 
tion of the spine. (See Fig. 33.) 



246 HEALTH EDUCATION IN RURAL SCHOOLS 



Sitting with one leg over the other also tends to produce 
malformations because it is more difficult to maintain an 
erect sitting posture. 

Another injurious habit which is widely prevalent among 
school-children is that of carrying a school-bag so that it is 

propped up on one hip. To 
maintain the bodily equi- 
librium a distortion of the 
spine is necessary. This is 
a difficult habit to correct. 
It is becoming customary 
now in our best schools not 
to assign any home work 
for the grades below the 
seventh and eighth a 
practice which might be 
copied with profit by coun- 
try schools. Even in those 
grades the evil of book- 
carrying may be abolished 
to a large extent by talking 
the matter over with those 
who are addicted to the 
habit and suggesting that 
possibly not more than one or two books at the outside 
be taken home for study. 

Ill-health as a cause of incorrect posture. Almost any 
kind of illness will interfere seriously with the development 
of good posture. I have seen some of my own pupils pro- 
gressing nicely as a result of school training; and then, after 
a few weeks of sickness from tonsillitis or some other ailment, 
losing everything they had gained. Sometimes their posture 
might be even worse than it was before training. Near- 
sightedness is likewise a cause of incorrect posture. The 





FIG. 32 

A position which no 
teacher should tol- 
erate. 



FIG. 33 

The correct stand- 
ing position for the 
recitation. 



(From Terman's Hygiene of the School Child.) 



POSTURE AND HEALTH 247 

pupil with such a defect of vision has a marked tendency 
to stoop over in study and so become round-shouldered. 
A disease like rickets in which the bones become abnor- 
mally soft may also be a cause of various deformities in- 
cluding curvature of the spine, knock-knees, and bow-legs. 
Under such conditions the teacher can do little in the way 
of correction. Parents should be advised to consult a phy- 
sician if possible, a bone specialist. Sleep, fresh air, ex- 
ercise, good nourishing food everything that makes for 
general good health is the foe of bad posture. 

CLASS EXERCISES 

1. Read as many references on posture as you can to find all the serious 
results from bad posture. Prepare to tell why these results naturally 
follow. 

2. Visit some rural school and carefully observe the number of pupils in 
bad posture. What percentage have excellent posture? Do the text- 
books used by the children consider the question of posture? Do you 
consider the treatment adequate? What efforts are being made by the 
teacher to train the children hi good posture? If placed in a similar 
position, what would you do? 

3. Write to the American Posture League, 1 Madison Avenue, New 
York City (enclosing stamp), for any literature which they may have 
for free distribution. Report on some aspects of posture not treated 
in this chapter. 

4. What proportion of the seats and desks in the schoolrooms visited 
were adjustable? When were they last adjusted? Did you see any 
school furniture that did not fit the pupils? Did you notice any bad 
habits of posture which you think might have been corrected by the 
proper adjustment of furniture or by other means? 

5. Consult books on play, physical training, and hygiene to find exercises 
and games that will correct bad posture. Try these exercises yourself. 

6. If you find that you have bad habits of posture yourself, take proper 
exercises and try in every possible way to correct this defect. 

7. Look over current magazines to find pictures illustrating good and 
poor posture. How would you use them in teaching children? 



CHAPTER XHI 

COMMON COLDS AND THE HYGIENE OF NOSE AND THROAT 

Two thirds of all colds are infections, and due not to cold, pure air, 
but to foul, stuffy air, with the crop of germs that such air is almost 
certain to contain. They should be called "fouls," not "colds." 

(Woods Hutchinson.) 

The danger from common colds. Among the many ills 
which inflict mankind none is regarded as being of such 
slight consequence as the common cold. In reply to the 
question, "What is the matter?" we often get the reply, 
" Oh, it 's nothing but a cold." Nevertheless, this is a mal- 
ady responsible for much inefficiency and suffering. First 
of all, a cold greatly diminishes our power of enjoyment and 
our ability to work. Second, colds use up much of our re- 
serve energy and so make it easier for other diseases to be 
contracted. To keep the body strong and well at all times 
is a valuable safeguard, an excellent kind of insurance. 
Third, colds may become chronic and one may throughout 
life be distressed and handicapped by nasal catarrh. 

Colds contagious. Among the masses of the people colds 
are regarded as being as inevitable as thunder-showers or 
lightning. With the approach of winter their coming is ex- 
pected in much the same way that the falling of snow is 
predicted. So far as causes are assigned for colds they are 
usually thought to be due to extreme cold temperature and 
drafts. In previous chapters we have considered drafts as 
quite inadequate. (See pp. 188-189.) 

The proper attitude toward colds is to consider them as 
diseases that are "caught" in much the same way that or- 
dinary diseases are contracted. Everybody has noticed that 
a particular kind of cold, if contracted by one member of 



COMMON COLDS 249 

the household, often goes through the entire family. One 
pupil with a hard cold has been known to infect a whole 
schoolroom. 

The teacher's problem. In planning her work for the year, 
the teacher should enlighten the children as to the cause 
and prevention of colds and also endeavor to make the 
hygiene and sanitation of the schoolroom such that colds 
will not be fostered and transferred. The whole problem of 
colds might be well considered at some meeting of the 
parent-teacher association. 

Causes of colds. Two conditions seem to be necessary for 
colds a congestion of the blood in the mucous membranes 
of the head, throat, or lungs and the presence of cold-germs. 
In places free from germs, as on the mountain-tops or in the 
Arctic regions, exposure to cold is not accompanied ordi- 
narily by colds. On the other hand, one may have many 
malignant cold-germs in the throat and nose, but the mu- 
cous membranes may be so normal free from congestion 
and irritation that no cold is contracted. Whenever the 
mucous membranes of the body are in a congested condi- 
tion and cold-germs are present, the contraction of colds 
may be expected. 

The prevention of colds. A poorly educated skin which is 
so susceptible to changes in temperature that congestion 
takes place readily is one cause of colds. (See pp. 197-198) 
The nervous reflex mechanism controlling the temperature 
of the body may be educated by taking cold baths on arising 
in the morning, wearing light clothing indoors, getting plenty 
of fresh air, maintaining proper posture, avoiding constipa- 
tion, and eating temperately. Some of these habits may be 
controlled to a considerable extent by the teacher, as we 
have already noted. The hot, dry air of the schoolroom is 
conducive to colds, because pupils going from the over- 
heated air of the schoolroom to the out-of-doors may be so 



250 HEALTH EDUCATION IN RURAL SCHOOLS 

suddenly cooled off that congestion takes place. Then, too, 
the hot air dries the air passages and by provoking irritation 
leads to colds. Too much care cannot be exercised to see 
that the temperature of the schoolroom does not exceed 
sixty-eight degrees. The habit that pupils often have of 
wearing heavy clothing indoors needs to be regulated. If 



WINDOWS SHUT 




FIG. 34. DEATHS PEOM PNEUMONIA, BRONCHITIS, COLDS, AND Gun? 

IN NEW YORK CITY 
(Courtesy of the Department of the City of New York.) 

the room is properly heated there is little reason for the 
clothing being much heavier than during the regular summer 
weather. The adjustment to the cold weather out of doors 
may be made satisfactorily by putting on heavier clothing. 

One significant cause of colds is a lack of fresh air and 
exercise. The proper ventilation of the schoolroom and 
play in the open air are excellent preventives. Then, too, 
children should be encouraged to thoroughly ventilate 
their bedrooms and bedclothes each morning and to sleep 
with their windows open at night. 

Since colds are contagious, there should be the same pre- 
caution taken against them as against any disease. The use 
of the common drinking-cup, the common towel, swapping 
food, exchanging pencils that have been in the mouth, 
sneezing into the surrounding air, are all means of trans- 
ferring colds. During the season of the year when colds 



COMMON COLDS 251 

are most prevalent, children should be especially instructed 
in regard to those things. Children should know particu- 
larly that it is dangerous to eat before the hands have been 
washed. 

A strong, healthy body is the foe of colds as well as other 
forms of disease, so that anything that makes for general 
good health, such as sleep, nourishing food, exercise, fresh 
air, etc., will prevent colds. 

Any child who has a tendency to catch cold easily should 
consult a physician. The trouble may be due to diseased 
tonsils or a chronic inflammation of the throat. 

Treatment of colds. Every child should be instructed as 
to what to do when a cold is contracted. This topic may well 
be taken up in class, but the teacher may be able to con- 
tinue this instruction effectively by asking children who are 
coming down with colds or have colds what they are doing 
for them. Previous instruction may then be recalled with 
profit, accompanied by suggestions by the teacher. 

As soon as a cold is felt coming on, prompt measures 
should be taken, for if the cold once secures a good hold it is 
more difficult to dislodge and may drag along for weeks or 
even months. Often a cold, if not checked, may leave the 
body in such a weakened condition that there may be fresh 
infections over a long period of time. The first thing to do 
when a cold is coming on is to relieve the congestion. One 
should eat sparingly, take a laxative so that there may be 
free movements of the bowels, take plenty of rest and sleep, 
keep the body warm, and possibly before retiring take a 
hot bath. If the cold fastens itself upon one, remaining in 
bed for a day, eating sparingly, and taking more than the 
usual amount of sleep for a few days will often be found to 
be effective. Many people are negligent about caring for 
colds, and carry out their plans of business and pleasure in 
the regular way. 



252 HEALTH EDUCATION IN RURAL SCHOOLS 

Importance of nose and throat hygiene. A healthy con- 
dition of the nose and throat during childhood is of the 
greatest importance; for it is now known that diphtheria, 
scarlet fever, measles, mumps, whooping-cough, infantile 
paralysis, influenza, pneumonia, and tuberculosis all gain 
entrance through these passages. Even after one has recov- 
ered from these diseases the germs may be carried in the 
nose and throat and be a menace to the health of those with 
whom the person comes into contact. 

The nose and throat are provided with safeguards against 
the invasion of disease. Among these are the tonsils. One 
of these, the pharyngeal tonsil, located in the back part of 
the nose, when swollen and inflamed is often referred to as 
an adenoidal structure. (See illustration opposite p. 243.) 
The lingual tonsil is located at the back part of the tongue. 
The hairs of the nasal passage, the mucous secretions, and 
the ciliated cells of the nose and bronchial passages offer 
further resistance to disease. 

Healthy tonsils offer resistance to disease, but infected 
tonsils lose this power, and harbor disease germs and poison- 
ous products. It has been demonstrated only recently that 
germs, in an acute or chronic inflammatory condition of the 
nose and throat and mouth, may be carried to different 
parts of the body and give rise to a variety of diseases which 
have long perplexed physicians. One of the most common 
of these head infections is tonsillitis, followed by decay of 
the teeth and nasal catarrh, especially when the inflamma- 
tion extends to the cavities of the face and forehead. Such 
infections are now identified with rheumatism, Bright's 
disease of the kidneys, ulcer of the stomach, inflammation 
of the gall-bladder, appendicitis, etc. Of course these remote 
diseases are not always a result of throat, nose, and mouth 
infections, but there is convincing evidence to show that 
there is a causal relation between the two. In the light of 



COMMON COLDS 253 

the evidence the need of a healthy condition of the throat, 
nose, and mouth is imperative. 

The relation of adenoids to health and disease. Ade- 
noidal growths tend to close the Eustachian tubes which 
lead to the ears and so cause deafness. As they also inter- 
fere with the passage of the air through the nose, they lead 
to mouth-breathing. This is of the utmost importance be- 
cause the nose is especially adapted to its work. It filters, 
moistens, warms the air, and so makes it ready for the lungs. 
The mouth can do none of these things, so that a child with 
adenoids is at a marked disadvantage. Dr. Terman says, 
"Mouth-breathing lowers mental efficiency, causing apathy, 
dullness, nervousness, instability, etc., with consequent 
school retardation.'* There are many cases on record of 
pupils poor in scholarship and criminal in their tendencies 
who were restored to healthy normal beings after their 
adenoids were removed. 

What the teacher can do. A child who breathes through 
his mouth and is troubled with many colds may be sus- 
pected of having enlarged tonsils and adenoids. Frequently 
both of these troubles occur at the same time. When the 
teacher has such suspicions there is perhaps little that she 
can do to better conditions. If there is medical inspection, 
the teacher may ask the physician to make a special exam- 
ination to find whether there is a basis for her suspicions. 
Parents may then be notified in the usual and legal manner. 
If there is no medical inspection, the difficulty is greater, 
but the teacher may find an opportunity to convince the 
parents that the child should be examined by a physician. 
One teacher in a rural school had this experience: The 
mother of a boy of twelve complained because her boy was 
not doing better in school. She did not blame the teacher 
for his backwardness, but seemed to be anxious to find out 
what the trouble was. In the course of a half-hour's con- 



254 HEALTH EDUCATION IN RURAL SCHOOLS 

versation the teacher told the mother about her suspicions. 
As a result the boy was taken to a specialist who operated 
for both enlarged tonsils and adenoids. To the mother's 
great joy the boy soon improved in his general health and 
school work. The more the teacher gains the confidence 
of parents the greater will be her opportunity to influence 
them. 

REFERENCES 

1. Fisher and Fisher. How to Live, pp. 272-80. Funk & Wagnalls. 

2. Hough & Sedgwick. The Human Mechanism, pp. 380-95. Ginn & 
Co. 

3. Woods Hutchinson. Preventable Diseases, pp. 86-93. Houghton 
Mifflin Company. 

4. William S. Sadler. The Cause and Cure of Colds, pp. 147. McClure. 

CLASS EXERCISES 

1. Keep a record of the conditions under which colds were contracted by 
yourself and the other members of your family. In how many cases do 
you think there was evidence to show that the colds were due to in- 
fection? 

2. Outline a talk which you might make at a parent-teacher association 
to show bow parents can cooperate with the schools to prevent colds. 

3. In visiting schools make note of the conditions favorable to the de- 
velopment of colds. In the schoolrooms that you visited do you think 
of anything additional which the school might do to prevent colds? 

4. Do you know of children who were operated on for adenoids? What 
was the result on health and school work? 

5. The teacher is often met with the contention on the part of parents 
that it does no good to operate for tonsils and adenoids, because 
they "come back." What are the facts in the matter? 

6. What percentage of the pupils in your school or in those visited 
sleep with their windows open? 



CHAPTER XIV 

THE CARE OF THE TEETH 

Of all the diseases of childhood, dental caries is the most suscepti- 
ble to preventive treatment. This preventive treatment is very 
largely a matter of education. (Dr. Guy S. Milberry.) 

There seems to be no doubt hi the minds of the most judicious 
that the situation is serious, and that dental disease is the most 
widespread disease now afflicting civilized nations. With this hi 
mind every teacher in our land has a civic duty to perform in help- 
ing to better conditions. (Dr. Fletcher B. Dresslar.) 

The relation of the teeth to the health of the child. There 
are at least two reasons why sound teeth and a clean mouth 
are important to the growing child. First, the teeth have 
an important function to perform in chewing the food 
thoroughly so that it may be well digested. If this function 
is interfered with, the child may suffer from indigestion and 
malnutrition. During the years when he should be getting 
a strong physical body, his health is being undermined. 
Artificial teeth may take the place of natural teeth to some 
extent, but it is estimated that their mastication efficiency 
is only one tenth that of the natural teeth. 

Second, the loss of the teeth through the ordinary process 
of decay is a means of infecting the body with disease. 
Germs require for their growth and multiplication warmth, 
moisture, and food. In the mouth they find a virtual para- 
dise. There they breed in profusion, destroying the teeth, 
infecting the gums, the tonsils, the stomach, and other 
parts of the body. In the previous chapter emphasis was 
put on the danger to health from any kind of bodily infec- 
tion. Decayed teeth not only become useless in the mouth 
for purposes of mastication, and are painful, but they are 



256 HEALTH EDUCATION IN RURAL SCHOOLS 

also one of the causes of acute rheumatism, chronic joint 
diseases, heart disease, ulcerated stomach, etc. 

Dr. B. J. Cigrand once read a humorous article, entitled 
the "Menagerie of the Mouth," which was not greatly 
exaggerated. A portion of it runs as follows: 

"Menagerie," meaning a place where wild things are enclosed, 
fits the conception of the wild, devouring lives enclosed in the oral 
cavity. Visit an enlarged mouth and there view the great army of 
animalculse held captive in the oral cavity. Treating the human 
ora as a circus, visit the cages, that is, the cavities, and hurriedly 
walk with the crowd to note the varieties of microscopic lives that 
are on exhibition daily and nightly without intermission. The 
show is continuous; the performers are cheered on in their work 
by string music called the human voice, and now and then the 
trainer, with a big toothpick, stirs up the animals. The canopy, 
encircled by hanging enamel cages, presents a beautiful dome. 
The floor of the circus, the tongue, is covered with the softest car- 
pet. It has an additional new circus feature, as it admits of eleva- 
ting the audience to the upper row or gallery of cages. The animals 
are alive, eat, sleep, and rest. They have foods of special delight; 
some love the dry land and others the deep blue sea. These mil- 
lions of small lives eat candy, peanuts, crackerjack, and caramels. 
Without these accessories no circus could exist. The infinitesimal 
life present in the oral cavity measures more millions than there 
are people in all countries. When these microbes begin to per- 
form, the "stunts" are called tuberculosis, typhoid, scarlatina, 
rheumatism, influenza, diphtheria, pneumonia, and half a hundred 
other names. 1 

Few people would imagine that many patients in a general 
hospital could possibly be there because of mouth infections; 
yet Dr. White, acting head of medicine in the University of 
Minnesota Medical School, reported that twelve per cent 
of the patients admitted to the hospital were suffering from 
conditions due to mouth infection. This report was made 

1 Quoted from Downing's Oral Hygiene Where It Begins and Where 
It Leaves Off. Proceedings, American School Hygiene Association, vol. 
VI, p. 205. 



THE CARE OF THE TEETH 257 

after two years of carefully checked evidence. Dr. William 
Osier expresses the belief that more physical degeneracy* 
can be traced to the neglect of the teeth than to the abuse 
of alcohol. A further review of medical literature is not 
necessary to show the fundamental importance of a healthy 
mouth. The United States Government recognizes this in 
its rejection of men with defective teeth for service in the 
army and navy. Those in the service are under the care of 
skillful dentists. 

Defective teeth related to defective scholarship. It re- 
quires little imagination to understand that if decayed 
teeth are responsible for the physical ills mentioned, they 
must also be responsible for defective scholarship. A body 
weakened by poor digestion and poisonous products does 
not make for a well-nourished brain and efficient mental 
activity. A good deal of evidence has been collected to show 
that children in poor health, troublesome to discipline, and 
backward in school have been restored to a normal mental 
and physical condition through the correction of dental 
defects. One case cited in the practice of Dr. W. M. Bartlett 
will serve as a typical illustration. Dr. Bartlett says: 1 

Another child came to my office with his mother and made an 
appointment for dental services. He arrived twenty minutes late 
for the appointment and when he was taken to task about it, said, 
" One of the boys said I made a face at him and my teacher kept 
me in for it; that is why I am late." I told him that he should not 
make faces and he said, "I just can't help it." I said nothing more, 
and upon examination of that child's mouth, saw plainly why he 
could not refrain from making what his classmates call "faces." 
I found in the two first lower molars large occlusal cavities, each 
containing a hypertrophied pulp rising at least one sixteenth of 
an inch above the tooth, which forced the child always to keep his 
jaws apart, using only his anterior teeth to nibble with, so to speak. 
At times when bringing the jaws into occlusion, the pain from these 

i W. M. Bartlett, D.D.S. Dental lUs and Scholarship, Oral Hygiene. 
Boston. 



258 HEALTH EDUCATION IN RURAL SCHOOLS 

pulps would cause him to jump and squirm, which the other chil- 
dren considered "making a face." I asked the boy how he man- 
aged to eat. His reply was that he only ate soft things that he could 
bite on his front teeth. I next asked him how he was getting along 
at school and was told that he was always kept in and nearly 
always last in his classes. This condition had existed for months. 
In a short time I had relieved the conditions and attended to the 
teeth properly. He returned to me in six months for other serv- 
ices and in that time he had developed into a strong, vigorous 
boy. He stated that he was never kept in and had made such 
progress in his studies that he had jumped two grades, which was 
considered good work. This case in itself shows the importance 
of dental hygiene in schools. 

Condition of the teeth of country children. Dr. Terman 
says that one fifth of the teeth of our school-children are 
diseased and that ninety per cent of these children have 
one or more decaying teeth. This alarming condition is 
being dealt with in all of our larger cities where there is 
medical inspection, follow-up work with school nurses, and 
careful instruction and training of the children in the care 
of the teeth. In the cities much has been done to make the 
general public familiar with the need of the care of the teeth. 
Medical schools, hospitals, and clinics have established 
practically free treatment for thousands of children who are 
too poor to consult a regular dentist. 

In the country, however, the situation is much different. 
Little has been done to educate the general public; children 
receive little practical training in the schools on the care of 
the teeth; medical inspection is almost nil and free clinics 
are lacking. It is not surprising, therefore, that Dr. Thomas 
Wood and other able investigators have discovered that the 
teeth of country children are in a worse condition than those 
of city children. 

Examination by the teacher. To understand the nature 
and scope of the dental problems in her school the teacher 



THE CARE OF THE TEETH 259 

should examine the teeth and mouths of all the children 
shortly after she begins her work. (See chapter V. ) Such 
an examination should enable her to find out whether every 
child's teeth are free from decay in general and whether 
they are properly cleaned. By questioning the pupils she 
will also find out about their habits with reference to the 
teeth. Such information will enable her to pay particular 
attention to those pupils who have unsanitary mouths, to 
see that they are properly cleaned. When teeth are decayed, 
parents should be advised to consult a dentist. As many 
parents are ignorant of the importance of the care of the 
teeth, it would be excellent to discuss this topic at one of 
the parent-teacher associations. 

Importance of the first set of teeth. Most parents and 
children have the false notion that it is of slight consequence 
if the first teeth decay, since they are destined to fall out 
anyway and be replaced by permanent teeth. In a parent- 
teacher association where this question is brought up, it 
would be well to have it emphasized that the milk teeth 
need careful attention for these reasons : first, the milk teeth 
are needed to masticate the food; second, decayed teeth 
tend to infect the tonsils and different parts of the body and 
thus lay the basis for disease; and, third, if the first teeth 
are not cared for, the decay may spread to the permanent 
teeth in much the same way that one rotten apple will rot 
a good apple with which it may be in contact. The impor- 
tance of the six-year molar should therefore be brought to 
the attention of children and parents. 

Importance of the six-year molar. This tooth is the first 
one of the permanent set to appear. It is found next to the 
outer molar of the milk set and may be found by counting, 
beginning with one of the central incisors (one of the two 
prominent chisel-shaped teeth in the front of the mouth) 
and counting toward the back of the mouth. The sixth 



260 HEALTH EDUCATION IN RURAL SCHOOLS 

tooth is the six-year molar, which ordinarily appears in the 
sixth year. It is often entirely neglected because the time 
of its appearance is unknown and it is not realized that it is 
a permanent tooth. Often the molars of the first set through 
neglect become decayed, and the decay naturally extends 
to the six-year molar, which is finally so troublesome that 
it is extracted. In many schools where the teeth of school- 
children have been examined pupils have been found with 
one or more six-year molars hopelessly decayed or missing. 
They can never be replaced and the missing teeth tend to 
mar the symmetry of the face. 

Toothbrush drills. The teacher may do little in the way 
of getting parents to take their children to the dentist, but 
she can help the cause immeasurably by training children 
to clean their teeth. Two things are of vital importance, 
namely, that children be taught to brush their teeth in the 
right way and that this method be practiced with regularity 
until it becomes a habit. Not only do many pupils lack a 
toothbrush, but those who have them often use them in 
such a manner as to injure the gums, or so carelessly that 
the teeth are not well cleaned. The usual way to clean the 
teeth is to scrub back and forth across them. This method 
is bad because too much force is usually applied and the 
necks of the teeth are worn and the gums often injured so 
that decay is facilitated. While a very moderate amount 
of such brushing may be commendable the best method is 
the massage method, in which the gums get a large amount 
of massage from the side of the brush. To try this method 
on the upper jaw, the brush should be inserted as high up 
as possible so that the bristles point straight up; then it is 
pressed hard against the gums, and as it is brought down- 
ward, it is turned toward the teeth and down. On the lower 
teeth the manner of brushing is just the reverse of the upper. 
The brush pointed downward, is placed as far down on the 



THE CARE OF THE TEETH 



261 



lower gums as possible, with the side of the brush pressed 
tightly against them, and is then brought up, turning until 
the bristles point up. The inside surfaces of the teeth are 
treated in the same way, although it is a trifle more awk- 
ward at first. The front teeth are cleaned inside by hooking 
the heel of the brush behind the teeth and then pulling out. 
By such methods it will be noticed that as the brush is turned 
slowly from its side the bristles spring into the spaces 
between the teeth and if anything is present it is brushed 
out. The massage method also prevents the receding of 
the gums from the teeth, a frequent cause of decay. 

In the schools of New York City the toothbrush drill is a 
prominent feature of the work in hygiene. It is described in 
the New York City Course of Study in Hygiene for 1914 as 
follows : 

Two or three children, provided with toothbrushes, dentifrice, 
cups, water, and a basin, should demonstrate this drill before the 
class. Every member of the class should follow the leaders in 
pantomime. 

Attention! (All in line, elbows close to side, with brushes in 
right hand and cups in left.) 

1. Ready Dip! 

2. Outside surfaces. (Brush inserted under cheek, teeth closed. 

Brush gums as well as teeth.) 
Left side Ready Count 1 to 16. Dip. 
Right " " " 
Front " 

3. Inside surfaces. (Mouth wide open, straight motion front 

to back.) 
Upper left side Ready Count 1 to 16. Dip. 

right 

front 
Lower left 

right 

front 

4. Chewing surfaces (scrubbing vigorously). 

Upper left side Ready Count 1 to 16. Dip. 
. i . < 

. right 



262 HEALTH EDUCATION IN RURAL SCHOOLS 

Lower left side Ready Count 1 to 16. Dip. 

right " " " 

5. Empty cups and refill them Ready Count 1 to 16. 

6. Rinse mouth " " 

7. Rinse brush " " 

(Shaking off excess of water over basin.) 
N.B. Counting by leader should be rather brisk but even, 
and should allow plenty of time for dipping and 
shaking of the brushes. 

Materials. 

1. Toothbrushes (brought to school in envelopes made by 
leaders.) 

2. Dentifrice. 

3. Individual cups (paper preferably), made by the leaders 
at home, to be half filled with water by monitor. 

4. One pitcher of water. 

5. One tin basin. 

In addition to the toothbrush, dental floss (waxed silk 
thread) should be used every day or so to remove particles 
of food lodged between the teeth, where decay is common. 
Dr. Wood also recommends that the mouth be washed with 
lime water once a day. This lime water may be prepared by 
putting one half a cup of finely powdered unslaked lime into 
a quart of water. After it has stood for twenty-four hours 
the clear liquid should then be poured into a bottle for 
mouth wash. The powder may be used for successive solu- 
tions until entirely dissolved. 

To get children merely to repeat directions on the care of 
the teeth would have little educational value. There must 
be an actual demonstration of the way to use the tooth- 
brush, a drill by the pupils under the direction of the 
teacher, and finally some follow-up work by the teacher to 
see that the habit has been established. The teacher, pro- 
vided with her own toothbrush, a cup, tooth-powder, and 
a basin, should first explain and demonstrate just how the 



THE CARE OF THE TEETH 263 

teeth are to be brushed. After this a member of the class 
may give a demonstration, the others imitating the move- 
ments with an imaginary toothbrush. If the class is small, 
all the pupils may take part in the actual demonstration, 
but ordinarily a demonstration by two or three in a class 
will be sufficient. If the number of pupils in the school is 
small, the entire school may take part in the drill. The 
initial step in the formation of the habit having been taken, 
the next step, the crucial part of the process, is to get the 
pupils to practice cleaning the teeth daily until it becomes 
habitual. The teacher may follow this up by the careful 
study of health records and also by a daily inspection of the 
teeth until the habit is well formed. Calling the attention 
of the school to those who have kept their teeth in the best 
condition will offer an incentive often to those who are care- 
less about the cleaning of the teeth. Eventually children 
ought to be as proud of keeping their teeth clean as of mak- 
ing a high score in jumping or in some game. The author 
remembers with pleasure visiting a school in one of the 
poorer sections of a large city. The principal took him 
around to the various rooms and asked him to look at the 
children's mouths. There was a distinct feeling of pride on 
the part of the children as they exhibited their clean teeth. 
To get children to take proper care of their teeth it is 
desirable that they be supplied with toothbrush and powder. 
Many do not possess these essentials, but with patience and 
tact the teacher may overcome such difficulties. Tooth- 
brushes are inexpensive so that parents will usually purchase 
them. Sometimes children may be urged to save a few of the 
pennies which they spend for candy and buy a toothbrush 
and powder. Often manufacturers of tooth-powder adver- 
tise to send any teacher enough samples of powder or paste 
to supply each child with a small tube. With such help the 
habit of cleaning the teeth may be begun. It should be 



264 HEALTH EDUCATION IN RURAL SCHOOLS . 

said, however, that tooth-powder is not absolutely neces- 
sary. Water made salty to the taste or plain precipitated 
chalk will answer. 

Dr. Goler 1 suggests the following formula for a good tooth- 
powder: 

Powdered chalk 1 Ib. (costs about 20c.) 

castile soap 3 oz. ( ' lOc.) 

sugar 2 oz. ( " Ic.) 

orris root 2 oz. ( " lOc.) 

Take all of these substances and mix them together on a large 
sheet of paper, stirring them about with a table knife, and holding 
up first one side of the paper, then the other, until all the powder 
is thoroughly mixed. Then put it through a flour sieve. You will 
thus be able to make a pound and a half of tooth-powder for about 
forty cents. 

Every teacher who remains one year in a rural school 
ought to be able at the close of that year to point to tangible 
results in dental hygiene. 

CLASS EXERCISES 

1. Find out whether any survey has been made in your State which 
shows the condition of the teeth of country children. How do these 
investigations compare with the investigations made in city schools 
in the same State? 

2. Can you think of other motives besides the ones suggested in this 
chapter to present to children to get them to clean their teeth? 

3. Look over the advertising columns and the regular reading columns 
of current magazines for illustrations and reading matter which could 
be used to teach children to clean their teeth. 

4. Present arguments which you would use to convince parents that the 
care of the first set of teeth is necessary. 

5. Look up such common mouth infections as "gum boils," "ulcerated 
teeth," etc., and note the relationship which they bear to a neglected 
mouth. 

6. Find out how many of your pupils have ever consulted a dentist. 
If you do not have a school of your own, visit a rural school, and find 

1 Teeth, Tonsils, and Adenoids, Metropolitan Life Insurance Company, 
New York. Pamphlet free to teachers. 



THE CARE OF THE TEETH 265 

out if possible how many of the children have ever seen a dentist. 
How frequently should a dentist's services be required for a moder- 
ately well-kept mouth? Why? 

7. Instruct your children carefully as to the dangers of such doubtful 
"remedies" as toothache gums, salves, and ointments. Lead them 
to an appreciation of the fact that a well-kept mouth never requires 
such drugs. 



CHAPTER XV 

THE HYGIENE OF DIGESTION AND FOODS 

Nutrition is fundamental for all lines of child development. 

(Dr. Lewis M. Terman.) 

INSTRUCTION relating to digestion and foods is usually 
limited to a discussion of the organs of digestion and their 
work. Pupils learn a great deal verbatim from the textbook 
about the coats of the stomach, the length of the intestines, 
the function of the liver and pancreas, and the action of the 
different digestive juices. Often the instruction ends at this 
point. 

Information acquired should have practical bearings. 
Many of the facts suggested should be presented, but they 
need to be related to practical hygiene. In the study of 
mastication, for example, the subject should be discussed 
in such a way that the children will get suggestions as to 
the care of their own health. Facts such as these should 
be emphasized : The mechanical process of crushing the food 
facilitates the action of the saliva and the gastric juice. The 
chemical process of changing the starch into sugar is due to 
the action of the saliva; this is of fundamental importance, 
because starch will not pass through the walls of the diges- 
tive tube and be absorbed into the blood. The vigorous use 
of the teeth and jaws in mastication makes the teeth healthy 
and prevents decay. Enjoyment of the food which accom- 
panies thorough mastication, appetizing food, and a pleas- 
ant state of mind also stimulate the flow of the gastric juice 
and so aid digestion in the stomach. As a result of the study 
of mastication, children should finally be led to formulate 
from the above facts such hygienic principles as 



THE HYGIENE OF DIGESTION AND FOODS 267 

Chew the food thoroughly. 

Eat appetizing food. 

Eat plenty of food that requires vigorous mastication. 

Be cheerful at mealtime. 

As the study of digestion is continued children should 
get facts so organized that they can answer such questions 
as the following: 

Why is fried food difficult to digest? 

Should milk be sipped, or swallowed like an ordinary glass of 

water? 

How does exercise influence digestion? 
What is the effect of bad posture on digestion? 
Why is regularity in the movement of the bowels necessary for 

health? 

Should we drink plenty of water? Why? 
How does a pleasant state of mind promote digestion? What can 

be done to make mealtime the most pleasant part of the day? 
Why are foods with bulk, like cabbage, desirable? 
Could one have plenty of food and yet be poorly nourished? 

Explain. 

Why are fruits valuable in the diet? 
What is the result of over-eating? 

Practical information insufficient. But even after the 
teacher has so organized the information that the pupils can 
answer many practical questions and formulate the most 
reliable hygienic regulations, the instruction may be largely 
valueless, because, as has been said so often in this volume, 
understanding has to run the gantlet of deep-seated antag- 
onistic habits. The inertia of years needs to be overcome. 
Children need to be trained in the right kind of action. The 
health surveys of the country districts are practically all 
alike in concluding that country people and country chil- 
dren are badly nourished, even though they live in the 
midst of plenty. This is due in large measure to their igno- 
rance of food values, of the need and method of preparing a 
balanced ration, and of skill in cooking food properly. One 



268 HEALTH EDUCATION IN RURAL SCHOOLS 

writer of hygiene has written a book entitled Starving 
America, in which he attempts to prove with much success 
that America is starving for the want of good food just be- 
cause it does not know what good food is and how it is to be 
gained. This is probably more true of rural than of city 
communities. A reform cannot be brought about simply 
by children reading about these problems or listening to the 
teacher as she talks about them. This tremendous problem 
concerning foods is not to be solved except as children 
grapple with some actual needs. Solving the problem of 
"What to Eat" will make for a coming generation with 
more vigorous minds and bodies and greater power to serve 
themselves and their country. 

The teacher as a community leader in food conservation. 
The great European War has done much to make people 
realize the importance of a good diet. The requests and de- 
mands of the United States Food Administration have made 
a knowledge of the different kinds of foods and their proper 
preparation a necessity. It is safe to say that never before 
in the history of our country has there been such a profound 
interest in the whole subject of nutrition. Both State and 
National Governments have published numberless pam- 
phlets and recipes, and have tried in many ingenious ways, 
such as sending out lecturers and contributing to news- 
papers, to educate the general public. 

Rural communities obviously have not had the same 
opportunities to consider such matters as have those living 
in the city. Here is a splendid opportunity for the teacher 
to play a large part in the conservation movement in the 
community. She may easily collect a large number of free 
Government pamphlets on food and file them at the school- 
house for the reference of pupils and parents. A domestic 
science club, which would meet at the schoolhouse, might 
be formed^ or many of the meetings of the parent-teachers' 



THE HYGIENE OF DIGESTION AND FOODS 269 

association might well consider the question of foods. 
Papers might be read, new recipes distributed, and ideas on 
economy, cooking, the balanced ration, and similar ques- 
tions, might be exchanged. Such meetings would naturally 
lend vigorous support to any plan which the teacher might 
inaugurate in the school, such as serving hot lunches, getting 



& ^ 




material 



FIG. 35 

the height and weight of the children to find out whether 
they were below normal (see pp. 63-68), and enlisting the 
cooperation of parents. 

One teacher known to the author made, with the assist- 
ance of the children, a fireless cooker which was demon- 
strated with great success in the preparation of the school 
lunches. The mothers became so interested that the teacher 
was advised to give an evening demonstration to show how 
the cooker was made, why it economized fuel, and required 
less work. 



270 HEALTH EDUCATION IN RURAL SCHOOLS 

How to make a fireless cooker. The fireless cooker is 
practically indispensable for every household. It saves fuel 
in winter, makes the kitchen comfortable in summer, and 
saves time and labor. The United States Department of 
Agriculture (Food Leaflet no. 13) says that a fireless cooker 
may be made for about a dollar, and gives the following 
directions for construction: 

MATERIALS NEEDED FOR A FIRELESS COOKER 

(From United States Food Administration Leaflet No. 13) 

1. The outside container: Any good-sized box or bucket with 
a tight cover a grocery box, a butter firkin, a wooden candy 
bucket, a 100-pound lard-can, or a new garbage-can. 

#. Packing material: Soft hay, excelsior, ground cork, sawdust, 
tightly crumpled newspapers, or any other good non-conducting 
material that can be packed in closely. This packing material 
forms a nest for the cooking vessel. 

3. The nest lining: A metal or enamel bucket and sheet asbestos 
to cover the bucket. The bucket must have straight sides and a lid 
and must be of such a size as to allow at least three inches of pack- 
ing material between it and the outside container, top, bottom, 
and sides. 

4. The cooJcing-vessel: A vessel with a tight lid to fit closely into 
the nest lining and yet slip in and out easily, or two or three of the 
small ones especially made for the fireless. The best kind is of 
enamel, granite, or aluminum. 

6. Cardboard: To make the collar. 

6. The cushion: Denim or muslin stuffed with the packing mate- 
rial. This cushion is to be pressed down across the top under the 
outside lid. 

7. Two soapstone disks: Purchasable at a hardware store. They 
are not needed for all cooking, but with them you can cook more 
quickly and in greater variety. 

To MAKE THE FIRELESS COOKER 

1. Line the outside container with newspaper if a wooden box 
is used. 

2. Pack the bottom of the outside container compactly with a 
layer of the packing material to the depth of three inches or more. 



THE HYGIENE OF DIGESTION AND FOODS 271 

3. Cut a circle of asbestos two inches larger in diameter than 
the nest lining. Place the asbestos mat in the center of the 
packing. 

4. Cut a strip of asbestos big enough to cover completely the 
outside walls of the bucket which is to serve as the nest lining, and 
tie it in place. 

5. Place the bucket with its asbestos covering directly in the 
center on the asbestos mat. Hold in place and tightly fill in the 
space between it and the walls of the outside container with 
the packing material. Pack in solidly to within one-half inch of 
the top of the bucket. The success of your cooker depends largely 
upon the tightness with which you crowd in the packing material, 
which prevents the heat from escaping from your hot food. 

6. Cut a piece of cardboard to fit in the outside container. 
Cut a hole in the middle of it which will fit closely over the bucket 
which forms the nest lining. This "collar" holds the packing 
material in place. 

7. Make the cushion for the top by cutting two pieces of cloth 
the size of the outside container and putting them together with 
a straight strip of cloth three inches wide. Stuff with the packing 
material. 

8. Outside finishings. If a box is used for the outside container, 
the lid should be hinged and fastened down with a hook. If it is 
of wood, paint or stain it a dark color. Casters make it convenient 
to move about. 

SOME PRECAUTIONS IN USING THE FIRELESS 

Don't let the food or disks cool before you put them in the 
fireless. The food will not cook unless there is enough heat shut 
up with.it. Reheat the food that requires long cooking, if it cools 
before it is finished. Reheat the food before serving, if necessary. 
A small quantity of food cools quickly, so either use the disks or 
put a small vessel containing the food in the regular cooking-vessel 
and surround it with hot water. 

Soapstone disks will increase the usefulness of your cooker. 
They can be heated hotter than the boiling point of water and 
when shut up in the fireless furnish heat which cooks the food. 
If you made your fireless according to directions, you can safely 
use the disks. Heat them very hot, but do not let them get red 
hot for fear of cracking. With one below and one on top of the 



272 HEALTH EDUCATION IN RURAL SCHOOLS 

cooking-vessel you will be able to roast meat or even to bake bread 
or puddings. Without the disks your fireless is useful only for 
certain kinds of food cereals, beans, pot roasts, stews, etc. 
things that can be cooked in water. 

For recipes especially adapted to fireless cooking send to 
United States Department of Agriculture, Washington, 
D.C., for Food Leaflet No. 13 and Farmers' Bulletin No. 
771, Homemade Fireless Cookers and Their Use. 

Hot lunch at noon. One of the most effective ways to 
study the question of the selection and cooking of foods, 
and to inculcate good hygienic habits, is to have a hot 
lunch at noon planned, prepared, and served by the pupils 
themselves. In most schools the pupils bring their lunches 
from home. These are not only cold, but often are far from 
being suitable for growing children. The hot lunch should 
be made to supplement the box luncheon from home. If the 
teacher will bring these matters up before the parents at 
the parent-teacher association, some kind of control may 
be gained over the kind of luncheon sent from home. 
Mothers are invariably interested in the idea of the hot 
lunch, because they believe it will not only be healthful for 
the children to have something warm, but they are relieved 
in large measure of the preparation of the box luncheon. 

Recognized benefits from hot lunches. In our city schools 
the hot-lunch plan has now demonstrated its worth and has 
been universally accepted throughout the country. Usually 
in city schools the children have little or nothing to do with 
planning the lunches. They merely buy what they need at a 
counter. The advantage has been that the children were 
able to get warm, nourishing food for a few pennies, and as 
a result their health and school work have improved. In 
rural schools, where often there is no course in domestic 
science, the hot lunch may be utilized to teach children 
many valuable things about foods and cooking. The teach- 



THE HYGIENE OF DIGESTION AND FOODS ^ 273 

ers of the State of Oregon who had served hot lunches, in 
reply to a questionnaire said that they believed the hot 
lunch had these advantages: 

1. Enables the pupils to do better work in the afternoon. 

2. Adds interest to school work. 

3. Gives some practical training. 

4. Gives better balance to meal. 

5. Encourages pupils to take sufficient time to eat. 

6. Teaches neatness. 

7. Gives opportunity to teach table manners. 

8. Makes for greater efficiency. 

9. Aids digestion as compared with a cold lunch. 

Securing the equipment. To get the proper equipment 
may seem to many teachers almost impossible; yet this is 
relatively a simple matter if the teacher possesses tact and 
a little ingenuity. If the school board does not feel inclined 
to purchase the necessary things, most of them will usually 
be donated by the homes as soon as mothers understand 
the teacher's purpose. After the pupils of a school become 
vitally interested in the idea of having hot lunches, the 
teacher and pupils should make out a list of the equipment 
necessary. Then the children can make the necessary in- 
quiries at home. If a parent-teacher association has been 
organized, the list might well be presented there and the 
cooperation of the mothers directly secured. Teachers may 
get a good idea of what kind of equipment is needed for 
serving ten lunches by referring to the following list recom- 
mended by the Oregon Agricultural College Extension 
Service in its bulletin The School Luncheon : 

1 box for table (constructed from new material) $ 5.00 

2 tin dish pans 

1 double boiler, large .... - - -50 

1 paring knife 5 

1 case knife ." -5 

Ifork.. 5 



274 HEALTH EDUCATION IN RURAL SCHOOLS 

*12 tablespoons $ .60 

*12 teaspoons .50 

1 wooden spoon .05 

2 mixing bowls .50 

2 saucepans, covered .50 

1 salt shaker 10 

1 Dover egg beater 25 

1 can opener .10 

paper napkins .10 

paper 25 

tin container ! -50 

*12 small soup bowls 1.50 

*12 small bowls for cocoa 1 . 20 

*12 small plates 1.20 

stove 

Total $13.20 

* One small soup bowl, cup and plate, 2 spoons for each pupil. 

It often happens that somebody has discarded an oil 
stove which is still usable, but is too small for family use, 
and this may be donated or rented for a very moderate sum. 
The regular heating-stove may often be used to advantage. 

In addition to the stove and cooking-utensils there should 
be some kind of cupboard for the storing of utensils, paper 
towels, and food-supplies, and a work-table. The cupboard 
need not be at all elaborate, but it should be free from 
cracks and be screened against flies. An old-fashioned 
kitchen safe would do, or a cupboard might easily be made 
from a dry-goods box by putting in shelves and using the 
lid for a door. Small bits of leather may be used for hinges 
if metal hinges are not obtainable. By covering the door 
and the other parts of the box in view with oilcloth, the cup- 
board will have a much more presentable appearance. Prob- 
ably somebody would be glad to donate a table, but if one 
cannot be readily secured in this way the teacher and pupils 
may easily make a satisfactory table out of dry-goods boxes. 
Shelves may be put in underneath so that a cupboard is 



THE HYGIENE OF DIGESTION AND FOODS 275 

unnecessary. This makes for economy of space, which is 
always necessary in rural schools. Such tables may be made 
attractive by sandpapering and painting. 

Planning the lunches. There are several methods for 
securing food-supplies. In exceptionally few cases members 
of the school board or patrons of the school have furnished 
the money for this purpose, but usually the teacher will find 
it advisable at the beginning to get parents to furnish the 
food. Each pupil may volunteer to furnish the lunch for a 
particular day. To insure fairness a simple record should be 
kept. It is advisable to have the lunches planned for some 
time in advance, as it will make it easier for the housewives 
and more educative for the children. After the hot dishes 
have been decided upon, the children may plan what they 
will bring from home. Here is a chance for a practical study 
of dietetics. Children should be taught to select the right 
kinds of food according to their uses in the body. Foods 
may be grouped into five different classes according to their 
uses. First, there are the fruits and vegetables, which con- 
tain mineral substances needed for building up the body 
and keeping it in good condition. They contain acids which 
give flavor and prevent constipation. By giving bulk to 
the diet they are also more satisfying to the appetite and 
help to stimulate the peristaltic movement of the intestines. 
Second, there are the meats and the meat-substitutes (beans, 
peas, lentils, cowpeas, peanuts), which are rich in protein, 
an absolute necessity for the growth and repair of the body. 
In the diet of children there should always be some protein 
in the form of milk. Third, the foods rich in starch, such as 
cereals (wheat, rice, barley, oats, corn, and rye) and pota- 
toes, supply energy. Fourth, the sugars serve as fuels for 
the body and help to flavor the food. Fifth, the foods rich 
in fats (bacon, salt pork, butter, oil, lard, cream, etc.) also 
serve as fuels and improve the texture of the food. In every 



276 HEALTH EDUCATION IN RURAL SCHOOLS 

meal there should be a balanced ration; that is, each one 
of the five different kinds of foods should be represented. 
Now, let us return to the thought expressed in this para- 
graph, that children should be taught to choose the right 
kinds of food according to their uses in the body. If baked 
beans are to be had for the noon lunch, it would be unwise 
and unhygienic for children to bring from home cheese or 
meat. Fruit or vegetables would be better. Teaching of this 
kind is quite likely to have an effect upon the dietetic cus- 
toms of the home. 

Below are given some of the common food materials clas- 
sified under these five different headings. 1 If the teacher 
and pupils will consult them in planning a meal a healthful 
and varied diet may be secured: 

GROUP 1. FOODS DEPENDED ON FOR MINERAL MATTER, VEGETABLE 
ACIDS, AND BODY-REGULATING SUBSTANCES 

Fruits : Vegetables : 

Apples, pears, etc. Salads lettuce, celery, etc. 

Bananas. Pot-herbs or greens. 

Berries. Potatoes and root vegetables. 

Melons. Green peas, beans, etc. 

Oranges, lemons, etc. Tomatoes, squash, etc. 

GROUP 2. FOODS DEPENDED ON FOR PROTEIN 

Milk, skim milk, cheese, etc. Fish. 

Eggs. Dried peas, beans, cowpeas, etc. 

Meat. Nuts. 

Poultry. 

GROUP 3. FOODS DEPENDED ON FOR STARCH 

Cereal grains, meals, flours, Cakes, cookies, starchy pud- 

etc. dings, etc. 

Cereal breakfast foods. Potatoes and other starchy 
Bread. vegetables. 

Crackers. 
Macaroni and other pastes. 

1 See United States Department of Agriculture, Farmers' Bulletin No. 
808, pp. 9, 10. 



THE HYGIENE OF DIGESTION AND FOODS 277 

GROUP 4. FOODS DEPENDED ON FOB SUGAR 

Sugar. Candies. 

Molasses. Fruits preserved in sugar, 

Sirups. jellies, and dried fruits. 

Honey. Sweet cakes and desserts. 

GROUP 5. FOODS DEPENDED ON FOR FAT 

Butter and cream. Salt pork and bacon. 

Lard, suet, and other cooking Table and salad oils, 
fats. 

The planning of the lunch also gives an excellent oppor- 
tunity to introduce some practical instruction on how to 
cook different dishes. Different pupils may be assigned to 
do particular things in preparing the midday meal. 

Many of the studies made of the health conditions in the 
country show that people in rural districts do not half appre- 
ciate the value of milk in the diet. (See p. 20). It is par- 
ticularly valuable for children. Although it is plentiful on 
farms, parents often do not realize that milk is one of the 
cheapest, most nourishing, and most easily digested of all 
foods. Children should be instructed in these facts, and 
recipes requiring milk should be suggested to them and tried 
out in the lunches. Milk seems to be valuable in the diet 
as Dr. Caroline Hunt (School Lunches, Farmers' Bulletin, 
No. 712) has pointed out, not only because it contains 
nourishing substances and promotes growth but also be- 
cause it seems to help children to make use of other foods. 
The neglect of milk in the diet of rural school children 
may explain in part the results of recent investigations 
which show the inferiority in height and weight of country 
children as compared to city children. The eminent author- 
ity, Milton J. Rosenau, 1 has this to say about milk as a 
food: 

1 All About Milk. Metropolitan Life Insurance Company, New York. 
This may be secured by teachers free. 



278 HEALTH EDUCATION IN RURAL SCHOOLS 



MILK AS A FOOD 

What is the food value of a quart of milk ? One quart of milk is 
about equal in food value to any one of the following: 

2 pounds of salt codfish. 

3 pounds of fresh codfish. 
2 pounds of chicken. 

4 pounds of beets. 

5 pounds of turnips. 
1/6 pound of butter. 
1/3 pound of wheat flour. 
1/3 pound of cheese. 

3/4 pound of lean round beef. 
8 eggs. 
2 pounds of potatoes. 

6 pounds of spinach. 

7 pounds of lettuce. 
4 pounds of cabbage. 




1 quart of milk cost- 
ing 8 or 10 cts. 



FIG. 36. 



8 eggs costing 25 
to 80 cts. 



A glass of milk is about equal to 



What is the food value 
of a glass of milk? 

2 large eggs, 

a large serving of lean meat, 

2 moderate-sized potatoes, 

5 tablespoonfuls of cooked cereal, 

3 tablespoonfuls of boiled rice, or 
2 slices of bread. 

School credit for home work. Beginning with the hot 
lunch as a center, the practical work in domestic science 
may be extended gradually to the home. Children may be 
required to do certain things at home. Dishes may be pre- 
pared at home and brought to the school for lunch. This 
method of teaching has become quite popular in many sec- 
tions of the country, and if properly conducted has much 
value, not only in educating the pupil, but also in bringing 
the home and school into closer sympathy and materially 
affecting the dietetic habits of the home. 

One teacher who tried this method thus briefly describes 
her plan and the results : l 

1 W. T. Hodges. Important Features in Rural School Improvement. 
United States Bureau of Education, Bulletin No. 599, pp. 45, 46. 



THE HYGIENE OF DIGESTION AND FOODS 279 

Lists of the things for which credit would be given, including 
habits of neatness and cleanliness, were printed and copies given 
to the pupils. Notebooks were furnished and daily records kept 
of the amount and kind of work done in the home. These records 
were signed by the parents and from time to time shown to the 
teacher. A lively interest was soon aroused, and home and school 
were brought into a closer relation. 

At a little social gathering a cake that was served was pro- 
nounced very fine. A mother proudly asserted that her daughter 
had made it. "She does nearly all the baking hi the home since 
the home industrial plan was started," she added. 

Recipes for school lunches. Before introducing hot 
lunches in the rural school, the teacher should have at hand 
some good recipes of suitable dishes which can be prepared 
with ease for growing children. Soups, stews, custards, and 
chowders are especially acceptable for the midday meal. 
Teachers will find some excellent suggestions and a number 
of recipes in Farmers' Bulletin No. 712, School Lunches. This 
is a free bulletin. Normal schools, State agricultural col- 
leges, and State departments of education are also begin- 
ning to issue pamphlets on lunches in the rural schools. 
Usually these are available only in the States where they 
are authorized for publication. In preparing this chapter 
the author has found the following bulletins particularly 
helpful: 

Milam, Turley, and Cowgill. The School Luncheon. Oregon 
Agricultural College, Bulletin No. 222. 

Lunches for the Rural School. University of Nebraska College 
of Agriculture, Extension Bulletin No. 32. 

Frances L. Brown. Home Economics in Village and Rural 
Schools. Kansas State Agricultural College. 

With the permission of the Kansas State Agricultural 
College the recipes given in the bulletin written by Frances 
L. Brown are reproduced. As a result of much experience 
they have been proved to be especially good for the rural 
school: 



280 HEALTH EDUCATION IN RURAL SCHOOLS 

WHAT TO SERVE 

To serve ten 

All measurements are level: Tsp. means teaspoon; tbsp. means 
tablespoon; c. means cup (1/2 pint). 

Cocoa 

6 tsp. cocoa. 3 qts. milk. 

4 1/2 tsp. sugar. 1 c. water. 

Bring water to a boil, mix cocoa and sugar, and pour on boiling 
water, cooking until smooth and glossy. Scald the milk and add 
it to the cocoa just before serving. (This allows one cup per pupil 
and a little over.) The preparation had best begin at 11.30 A.M. 
to be ready at 12. 

Chocolate 

6 squares Baker's chocolate. 4 c. boiling water. 

1 c. sugar. 1/2 c. milk. 

Few grains salt. 

Scald milk. Melt chocolate in saucepan placed over hot water, 
add sugar, salt and gradually boiling water; when smooth place on 
a range and boil one minute; add to scalded milk and serve in 
chocolate cups, with or without whipped cream. One and one hah* 
ounces vanilla chocolate may be substituted for Baker's chocolate; 
being sweetened, less sugar is required. This allows a little over 
one cup each, and should be begun at 11.30 A.M. 

Potato soup 

1 qt. peeled potatoes, 4 tbsp. flour. 

cut in thin slices. 1/8 tsp. black pepper. 

4 qts. milk. A small onion. 

2 tsp. salt. 1/2 tsp. celery seed or a stalk 
4 tbsp. butter. of celery. 

The potatoes should be peeled and put into cold water before 
school, also cream together the flour and butter, with the season- 
ings except the onion. At eleven o'clock the water for the potatoes 
should be made to boil. When boiling, pour it upon the sliced pota- 
toes and cook them until tender. Drain off the water, scald the 
milk and pour it upon the mixture of flour and butter. Stir until 
smooth. Return to the fire and add the potatoes, and cook until 



THE HYGIENE OF DIGESTION AND FOODS 281 

flour is cooked and potatoes soften down, but do not allow the 
soup to boil. It is better to keep it just simmering. 

Corn cfanoder 

1 pt. potatoes, peeled 1 onion. 

and dried. 4 qts. milk. 

1 pt. can corn. 1 tsp. salt. 

3 slices of bacon 1/4 tsp. pepper. 

or salt pork. 2 tbsp. butter. 

At ten o'clock put water on to boil, dice the potatoes that were 
peeled before school, and put them to cook with the boiling water. 
Boil them five minutes and drain. Cut the bacon up into tiny 
bits and fry it out, add the onion and brown it, but do not let it 
burn. When the onion is browned, empty the bacon, together with 
the onion and fat, into the kettle with the potatoes, add the corn 
and other seasonings. Pour upon this two quarts of water, and 
simmer it all forenoon, until 11.45, then scald the milk and add 
it and the butter to the chowder just before serving. 

Emergency soup 

1 qt. can tomatoes. 1/2 tsp. pepper. 

2 c. water. 1 tsp. celery seed or salt 
6 tbsp. butter. 1 tsp. salt. 

1/2 c. flour. 6 cloves. 

Mix all ingredients except flour and butter together and cook 
fifteen minutes, stirring occasionally to prevent sticking. Rub 
flour and butter together. Strain tomato mixture and pour it 
upon the flour mixture. Return to fire and let boil gently. Serve 
hot. Begin work at eleven o'clock. 

Cream of tomato soup 

1 qt. can tomatoes. 1 onion. 

4 tsp. sugar. 1/4 c. flour. 

1/2 tsp. soda. 1 tsp. salt. 

2 qts. milk. 1/2 tsp. pepper. 

Scald milk with onion, remove onion and thicken milk with 
flour mixed and diluted with cold water until it is thin enough 
to pour, being careful that the mixture is smooth; cook twenty 
minutes, stirring constantly at first. Cook tomatoes with sugar 
fifteen minutes, add soda; combine the mixtures, add the butter, 
salt and pepper, and serve. Begin work at eleven o'clock. 



282 HEALTH EDUCATION IN RURAL SCHOOLS 

White sauce for escalloped dishes 

1 c. milk. 2 tbsp. butter. 

2 tbsp. flour. 1/4 tsp. salt. 

Scald the milk; rub flour, butter and salt together; pour upon 
it the hot milk, and return to the fire to cook, stirring constantly 
to prevent burning. It is safest always to cook it in a double boiler 
or over hot water. 

Any vegetable may be boiled and drained and escalloped by the 
following method: 

Butter a pan or bowl, and put in the bottom of it a layer of the 
boiled vegetable (onions, cabbage, cauliflower, potatoes, tomatoes). 
Over this pour a layer of the white sauce, then another layer of 
the vegetable, and so on, finishing with the sauce. Such dishes are 
improved by covering with buttered crumbs. These are made by 
mixing together three times as many crumbs as butter used. To 
serve ten there should be two quarts of the vegetable and two 
quarts of white sauce, with two cups of buttered crumbs. Grated 
cheese may be added as well if desired. The dish should then be 
put into the oven and cooked until the sauce bubbles up through 
the crumbs and the top is brown. Begin work at ten o'clock. 

Macaroni and cheese. 

3 c. macaroni broken in two-inch pieces. 
3 qts. boiling water. 

3 tsp. salt. 

6 c. white sauce (made as above). 

Cook macaroni in boiling salted water until tender. Drain, 
pour cold water over it; drain it once more and add it to the 
white sauce. Sprinkle a layer of grated cheese upon each layer 
of macaroni and also at the top. Bake as for any other escalloped 
dish. To give variety, finely minced ham, boiled codfish or other 
cold meat may be used instead of cheese. 

Rice and raisins 

8/4 c. rice. 1 c. raisins. 

2 qts. boiling water. 3/4 tsp. salt. 

Wash the rice and the raisins, pour the boiling water upon the 
rice and cook rapidly for five minutes, stirring constantly. Add 
the raisins, and simmer for one hour. Serve hot, with sugar and 
cream. 



THE HYGIENE OF DIGESTION AND FOODS 283 

Rice pudding 

2 c. rice. 4 qts. milk. 

1 c. raisins. 1 c. sugar. 

1 tsp. salt. 1 tsp. cinnamon. 

Wash rice and raisins, and put all together in a buttered milk 
pan and bake all forenoon. Stir it occasionally during the first 
hour. Serve with cream or milk. 

On particularly cold days it might be possible to bake potatoes 
as well as to prepare the regular hot dish. Many other dishes 
will naturally be suggested by children or parents, depending upon 
things grown and upon the tastes of the children and parents. 

Helpful bulletins and books. It would be advisable for 
every teacher to take a course in domestic science, possibly 
in some summer school, if she has never had any training 
in this field; but that is not absolutely necessary if she is 
willing to study and learn. The first thing to do is to collect 
a library of the best Government bulletins on foods and, if 
possible, one or two good books. If the teacher has never 
had any experience in cooking, it would be profitable for 
her to learn to cook some of the dishes that she would like 
to have prepared for school lunches. If she does this she 
will be saved much embarrassment in beginning her under- 
taking. Many of the best pamphlets may be secured free, 
and every teacher ought to be able to own one or two good 
books. Probably the school board could be persuaded to 
buy others. 

The following Government pamphlets will be found 
serviceable : 

Available for free distribution by the United States Department of Agriculture, 
Washington, D.C. 

Meats: Composition and Cooking. Farmers' Bulletin 34. 

Beans, Peas and Other Legumes as Food. Farmers' Bulletin 121. 

Canned Fruit, Preserves, and Jetties: Household Methods of Preparation. 

Farmers' Bulletin 203. 
Cereal Breakfast Foods. Farmers' Bulletin 249. 



284 HEALTH EDUCATION IN RURAL SCHOOLS 

Preparation of Vegetables for the Table. Farmers' Bulletin 256. 

Use of Fruit as Food. Farmers' Bulletin 293. 

Food Value of Corn and Corn Products. Farmers' Bulletin 298. 

The Use of Milk as Food. Farmers' Bulletin 363. 

Care of Food in the Home. Farmers' Bulletin 375. 

Economical Use of Meat in the Home. Farmers' Bulletin 391. 

The Care of Milk and Its Use in the Home. Farmers' Bulletin 413. 

Mutton and Its Value in the Diet. Farmers' Bulletin 526. 

Sugar and Its Value as Food. Farmers' Bulletin 535. 

Use of Corn, Kafir, and Cowpeas in the Home. Farmers' Bulletin 559. 

Corn Meal as a Food and Ways of Using It. Farmers' Bulletin 565. 

Honey and Its Uses in the Home. Farmers' Bulletin 653. 

School Lunches. Farmers' Bulletin 712. 

Food for Young Children. Farmers' Bulletin 717. 

Homemade Fireless Cookers and Their Use. Farmers' Bulletin 771. 

For sale by the Superintendent of Documents, Government Printing Office, 
Washington, D.C. 

Principles of Nutrition and Nutritive Value of Food. Farmers' Bulletin 142. 
Price, 5 cents. 

Bread and Bread-Making. Farmers' Bulletin 389. Price, 5 cents. 

The Chemical Composition of American Food Materials. Office of Experi- 
ment Stations, Bulletin 28. Price, 10 cents. 

Iron in Food and Its Functions in Nutrition. Office of Experiment Stations, 
Bulletin 185. Price, 10 cents. 

Calcium, Magnesium, and Phosphorus in Food and Nutrition. Office of Ex- 
periment Stations, Bulletin 227. Price, 10 cents. 

Composition of Food Materials. Office of Experiment Stations, Food and 
Diet Charts 15. Price per set, $1. 

The Food Value and Uses of Poultry. Department Bulletin 467. Price, 5 
cents. 

Potatoes, Sweet Potatoes, and Other Starchy Roots as Food. Department 
Bulletin 468. Price, 5 cents. 

Fats and Their Economical Use in the Home. Department Bulletin 469. 
Price, 5 cents. 

Eggs and Their Value as Food. Department Bulletin 471. Price, 5 cents. 

Some Good Books. 

Conley. Principles of Cooking. American Book Company, New York. 
For general reference. 

Kinne and Cooley. Food and Household Management. The Macmillan 
Company, New York. 

Excellent for general reference. 



THE HYGIENE OF DIGESTION AND FOODS 285 

Kinne and Cooley. Food and Health. Macmillan, New York. 

Excellent textbook for children. Has 60 pages on school luncheon. 

Mary J. Lincoln. The School Kitchen Textbook. Little, Brown & Co., 
Boston. 

This will be especially valuable for teachers who wish to give school credit for 
home work in household economics, a desirable book to put into the hands of the 
pupils. 

Josephine Morris. Household Science and Arts. American Book Com- 
pany, New York. 

One of the very best books on the market. If pupils or school board could be in- 
duced to purchase a few copies they could be used to great advantage. 

How one teacher introduced hot lunches. Many teachers 
who have some hesitation about the desirability or possibil- 
ity of serving a hot lunch at midday will be interested in 
the story of how one teacher began this practice and how 
she regarded her results. She writes: l 

I have been serving the hot lunch to my children since Janu- 
ary 1 and feel that no little of my success has been due to getting 
hold of the children and parents through this line of work. 

We have no kitchen here, but we improvised one in one end of 
my cloakroom by putting in some shelves and covering with oil- 
cloth and having curtains to cover them. One of my good patrons 
gave us a nice little table, which we use for dining upon, and though 
it is small, we enjoy sitting around it together. 

We bought two dishpans, one large cooking kettle, a paring 
pan and knife, a long-handled spoon, one dozen spoons, a half 
dozen plates, a dozen cups and saucers and a few other little fix- 
tures. The children brought what other things we needed and we 
began. Of course, we have no stove, but our heater has a large, 
flat top and we use it for heating our water and doing our cooking. 

I usually assign the work to one of the eighth-grade girls, who 
has as her helper one of the small boys. We find it takes little or 
none of our time as I place the plan on the board and all copy it 
into their notebooks and we sometimes discuss it with the whole 
school, using it as the topic for language work. I find so far that 
it has afforded the following advantages to my school; 

1 Letters from Parents and Teachers. Hot Noon Lunch and Social Center 
Work, State Normal School, Cheney, Washington. 



286 HEALTH EDUCATION IN RURAL SCHOOLS 

1. More'useful, busy work for the little ones. 

2. Language work for the entire school. 

3. Opportunity for teaching table manners. 

4. Practical lessons for domestic science. 

5. An orderly noon hour. 

6. A better lunch pail from home. 

7. More interest on the part of patrons in our school. 

8. A more palatable dinner for all of us. 

Another teacher writes : 

We gave a social and raised a little money and with it I bought 
a good two-burner oil stove, a dishpan, a large soup kettle, a tea 
kettle, a soup ladle, a dozen spoons and two and one-half yards of 
white oilcloth for desk covers and some salt and other stock ma- 
terials at a total cost of $11.30. I then made out a list of material 
the children could bring to make the hot lunch for each day. All 
responded readily and we began. We have soup four days and on 
Fridays we have a cup of cocoa. The children like it very much 
and we would not think of going back to the old plan of the cold 
lunch. 

I start the fire about eleven o'clock and two of the girls quickly 
make the soup and put it on and it is all ready by twelve o'clock. 
One child acts as waiter and another with the ladle dips out the 
soup while the others quietly wait at their desks to be served. 

After dinner each child carries his soiled dish to the wash table 
and two of the children wash and put away the dishes. There is no 
trouble whatever in getting the work done. The children really 
enjoy it and it takes no time from the regular work. Lately one 
of the neighbor girls not attending school came to visit us, and, 
much to our surprise and delight, at noon hour surprised us with 
a fine chicken dinner she had brought with her all ready to serve. 
There was some objection to the hot lunch at first on the part of 
some parents, but they have been reasonable about it and I think 
now all are supporting it well. I am sure the people as a whole 
in the district feel it has been a fine thing and are glad to support 
it in every way. 

A parent's opinion of the hot lunch. The domestic science 
work in connection with the hot lunch will not be successful 
unless it secures the cooperation of the parents. The follow- 



THE HYGIENE OF DIGESTION AND FOODS 287 

ing extracts from a parent's letter shows how the work of 
the school penetrated the home: 

I am sure the physical condition of the children is better, espe- 
cially those children who have a long way to come and have to eat 
breakfast so early in the morning that they will not take enough 
nourishment to do them with a cold lunch. The lessons which the 
careful teacher gives to the children in the way of table manners 
and proper eating are well worth the time and expense of the hot 
lunch. The parents also know so much better what to put up in 
the way of a lunch since they know it will be supplemented by 
some hot dish at school. The children all have to spread their 
home lunch on the desk before the other children, and it has made 
them and their mothers more careful about putting up neat and 
well-arranged lunches since they know the plan of all eating to- 
gether. 

We feel the hot lunch has bound us all more closely together. 
The homes know more of each other and parents and teacher know 
each other so much better. 

We often hear this remark: "How did we ever get along for so 
many years without our little school kitchen and the hot lunch for 
our children?" 

Opportunity for the inculcation of health habits. If the 
hygiene of digestion and home economics are properly 
taught, the pupils will have not merely theoretical knowl- 
edge; they will also have acquired habits conducive to 
health. Let us consider a few of these briefly: 

(1) Skill in making out menus so that there may be a 
balanced ration. 

(2) Hygienic and sanitary preparation and cooking of 
food. 

(3) Proper care of ice chest and cupboard-cleanliness, 
screening from flies, protection from mice, ants, 

etc. 

(4) Washing dishes correctly. Teachers should empha- 
size the necessity of rinsing all dishes in boiling hot 
water. 



288 HEALTH EDUCATION IN RURAL SCHOOLS 

(5) Cleanliness of linen, towels, dish cloths, aprons, etc. 
Most children if properly encouraged by the teacher 
will enjoy and take pride in keeping everything neat 
and clean. 

(6) Safe disposal of garbage. One of the best ways of dis- 
posing of inedible incombustible garbage is to bury 
it deep enough so that it will not be disturbed by dogs 
or by cultivation. 

(7) Washing the hands before eating. This is one of the 
most important of health habits. Teachers should 
insist on its being carried out. 

(8) Proper use of individual napkin. 

(9) Correct mastication of food. Lunch should be pre- 
pared early enough so that the children will feel a 
sense of leisure when eating. 

(10) Cheerfulness at mealtime. 

In addition to these habits there are others not so directly 
related to health, and yet of incalculable worth, which need 
to be cultivated. For example, there are habits of economy 
and politeness (table manners). 

The teacher has an opportunity to supervise directly 
these habits. If she secures the cooperation of the parents, 
she will also be able to accomplish much in getting them 
established as home habits. 

CLASS EXERCISES 

1. Compare chapters on food and digestion in three different textbooks 
on hygiene for children. Which book would you prefer to put into 
the hands of children? Why? 

2. Ask some teacher in a rural school to have her pupils write a com- 
position on what they brought from home for lunch. How many of 
the lunches were suitable for children? Suggest what might be added 
to several of the undesirable lunches so that the ration would be 
suitable? 

3. Visit some rural school where hot lunches are served at noon. WTiat 
did the equipment cost? What was the value of this lunch? 



THE HYGIENE OF DIGESTION AND FOODS 289 

4. Can you suggest other menus for midday lunches besides those men- 
tioned on pp. 280-283? 

5. Make a collection of pamphlets on food. Add to the list of references 
given on pp. 283-284. 

6. Plan a series of lessons on foods such as you would present to older 
children in a rural school. How would these lessons differ from similar 
lessons for little children? 



CHAPTER XVI 

THE CARE OF THE EYE AND EAR 

Children who have defective eyes, ears, noses, and throats cannot, 
unless relieved, receive and profit by public-school education. 
To such children, school work is a pain and a burden. 

(Dr. Frank Allport.) 

THE normal functioning of the eye and ear is of funda- 
mental importance because these sense organs are the chief 
avenues through which we learn about the world around us, 
and also because any defect in these organs is apt to be 
accompanied by conditions having a far-reaching effect on 

the general health. 
How we see. As 
is well known, the 
eye is similar in its 
function to a cam- 
era. Like the cam- 
era, there is an aper- 
ture to admit the 
rays of light and 
there is a lens which 
brings the rays of 
light to a focus on 

(From Conn and Buddington's Advanced Physiology a Sensitive Surface 
and Hygiene, with the permission of Silver, Burdett & Co.) , 

the retina in case 

of the eye, and the plate or film in the case of the camera. 
(See Fig. 37.) There is one very marked difference, how- 
ever. If the rays of light are not brought to a focus on 
the sensitive plate or film, if the image is not clear, we 
may focus the camera by varying the difference between 
the lens and the plate or film. This method is impossible 



Suspensory Ligament 
Viinota 
Humor 




FIG. 37. DIAGRAM SHOWING A SECTION 
THROUGH THE EYEBALL 



THE CARE OF THE EYE AND EAR 291 

in the function of the eye. If there is a confused image on 
the retina, the lens itself must be changed so as to be more 
or less convex until a clear image is obtained. 

If the eye is normal, parallel rays of light (rays coming 
from an object twenty feet or more away) will be readily 
brought to a focus without any change occurring in the 
shape of the lens. (See Fig. 38.) Under such conditions the 
lens is comparatively flat because the choroid coat of the 
eye, which is attached to the lens by means of ligaments, 




FIG. 39. THE NORMAL EYE FOCUSED 

ON AN OBJECT NEAR AT HAND 
Notice the increased convexity O f the lens. 
(From Hiram Woods' Eye-Strain, with the permission of the American Medical Association.) 



FIG. 38. THE NORMAL EYE IN A 
STATE OF REST 



pulls the lens out so that it tends to become flat. But when 
the object is near at hand, the lens, if it still remained flat, 
would not bring the rays of light to a focus. A very inge- 
nious kind of mechanism now effects a change in the shape 
of the lens so that clear vision results. A little muscle called 
the "ciliary muscle" has one end attached to the choroid 
coat and the other to the outer coat of the eye, to the scler- 
otic. When this little muscle contracts it draws the choroid 
coat forward and the lens, which is quite elastic, assumes its 
independent or more convex shape. (See Fig. 39.) It will be 
noticed that the normal eye is at rest when a distant object 
is observed, and that the ciliary muscle, often called the 
"muscle of accommodation," is exercised only when an 
object is near at hand. A complete act of seeing also in- 
volves brain activity which it is unnecessary to discuss here. 
Defects of the eye, and eye-strain. There are several 




292 HEALTH EDUCATION IN RURAL SCHOOLS 

structural defects of the eye which are apt to reduce the 
acuity of vision and also to bring about serious conditions 
of eye-strain. 

The length of the eyeball is exceedingly important. The 
normal eye has a ball which is of such a length that the 
parallel rays of light are brought to a focus on the retina 

without the aid of 
the muscles of ac- 
commodation. The 

. . , r . . far-sighted eye is so 

/Yormof Lye S ^\ , , 

short that when the 

eye is at rest the 
parallel rays of light 
would be brought 

^_ to a focus back of 

FIG. 40. r ., . . f -r^. 

the retina (see rig. 

40). Under such conditions there would be a confused 
image on the retina if the ciliary muscle did not come into 
play and effect a greater convexity of the lens. When the 
proper adjustment of the lens can be made and maintained, 
the individual can see just as well as one having normal 
vision; but there is this very important difference: the per- 
son with normal eyes uses his muscles of accommodation 
only when he is looking at something near at hand, the 
far-sighted eye uses its ciliary muscles at all times and so 
is under an abnormal strain. If the eyeball is so short that 
accommodation is impossible for near objects, there is a 
lessened visual acuity for near objects. 

The near-sighted eye (Fig. 40) is so long from front to back 
that parallel rays of light come to a focus in front of the 
retina. Since the lens at rest has no further power to re- 
duce its convexity the eye cannot accommodate itself to 
distant objects. There is a lessened visual acuity, but the 
near-sighted eye is not usually subject to strain unless other 



THE CARE OF THE EYE AND EAR 293 

complications are involved. However, the near-sighted child 
often has a tendency to hold the book close to the eyes. A 
strain is thus brought to bear on the muscles which causes 
the eyes to converge. This can be demonstrated somewhat 
by trying to look at the end of your nose or by reading print 
held very close to the eyes. Such a simple experiment shows 
how serious would be the strain if one were compelled to 
use the eyes in this way in ordinary reading. It is often be- 
lieved by those who are near-sighted that they do not need 
glasses because they can read so well. This is, of course, an 
absurd statement. Aside from the question of health, my- 
opia, or near-sightedness, needs to be corrected if the child 
is to get the best results from school work. 

Either a near-sighted or a far-sighted eye may have an 
irregularity known as "astigmatism," or this error may 
exist alone. Such a defect is due to an irregularity in the 
shape of the lens or cornea of the eye so that some of the 
rays are not focused naturally on the retina. Just as the 
far-sighted eye can by accommodation secure good vision, 
so the result of the irregularity of the front of the eye may 
be overcome frequently by an unequal contraction of the 
lens. If astigmatism exists and it can be overcome by such 
an adaptation, the eye is under a strain all the time it is in 
use. If this adaptation cannot be made, the visual acuity 
is lessened. A test for astigmatism is usually included with 
every Snellen vision chart. 

Eye-strain may also be due to a lack of balance in the 
muscles which turn the eyes. Each eye has a separate pic- 
ture, and unless the two eyes are turned so that the image 
falls on the corresponding parts of the retinae double vision 
will result. This confusion is, of course, very unpleasant. 
If there is any tendency of the eyes to turn in the wrong 
direction an excessive amount of energy must be utilized 
to "whip" them into line. This not only involves a serious 



294 HEALTH EDUCATION IN RURAL SCHOOLS 

waste of energy, but makes the individual conscious of the 
excessive effort needed to direct the attention to any one 
object for a certain length of tune. The result is disastrous 
to the concentration of the attention and the economy of 
energy. 

Effect of eye-strain on school work. It is a popular but 
erroneous belief that if one can see clearly one's eyes are in 
good condition. Such a belief, as we have shown in the 
previous pages, is now exploded, for one may have good 
vision and yet suffer exceedingly from eye-strain. If a child 
can see distinctly, but is obliged to use much of his energy 
and effort to see, it is easy to conclude that he has a tremen- 
dous handicap; for the energy which is used to see cannot 
then be utilized in school work. Not only this, but the 
strain leads to a congestion and inflammation of the eyes 
and lids, thereby not only often reducing visual acuity, but 
even affecting such remote parts of the body as the stomach, 
neck, and back. A child with a serious eye-strain, especially 
after entering school, when the eyes must be used a good 
deal, is likely to be backward and to suffer from headaches, 
indigestion, nervousness, and many other maladies. 

A good idea of the serious effect of eye-strain on the gen- 
eral health and school work may be had by reading the fol- 
lowing cases reported by reliable physicians: 1 

Case 5. Boy, age eleven years. Surroundings good, but he was 
so dull in school that he had fallen three years behind. Examina- 
tion revealed mixed astigmatism. When this was corrected he 
began to improve physically, and two years later he had overtaken 
his former classmates. 

Case 3. Girl, age sixteen years. She was behind in her class and 
complained of headaches and of becoming sleepy while reading. 
About this time she exhibited an aversion to studying and to prac- 
ticing on the piano. This was inexplicable to her mother, as the 
girl had always been very studious, and only the year before had 

1 From Swift's Mind in the Making. 



THE CARE OF THE EYE AND EAR 



295 



won class honors. An acute catarrhal inflammation of the eyes 
brought her to the oculist, who found that she had hypermetropic 
astigmatism. The proper correction brought complete relief and 
all the disturbing symptoms vanished. 

Case 5. Girl, age fifteen years. Five weeks before the physician 
was consulted she had fallen in a convulsion while in school. Dur- 
ing the attack she was unconscious and foamed at the mouth. 
"The aura consisted of pain in the head, dizziness, and blackness of 
vision, and after this she passed into a general tonic spasm, which 
lasted for five minutes.'* These attacks followed continued use of 
her eyes, and they occurred either in school or shortly after. She 
was nervous and suffered from almost constant headache. Exam- 
ination of her eyes showed compound hypermetropic astigmatism. 
Glasses were prescribed, and so long as she wore them she had no 
attacks, but on one occasion, when they had been mislaid, she 
had four convulsive seizures. After they were found and again 
worn the attacks once more ceased and had not returned up to the 
time when the case was reported. 

Defective vision and school work. Children who have 
defective vision are at a serious disadvantage in learning. 
The near-sighted child may progress normally in the use of 
books, but he is apt to find it difficult to read the words on 
the blackboard. Often children have this defect without 
either they or the teacher being aware of it. The child 
knows that he cannot see what is written on the blackboard 
from the opposite side of the room, but frequently he does 
not know that he is different in that respect from the other 
pupils. If he is called upon to copy from the board, and he 
cannot see the material clearly, he is likely to make many 
errors. The teacher, not understanding the trouble, is apt 
to blame it to stupidity or willfulness and so treat the child 
unjustly. On field trips the near-sighted child is particularly 
at a disadvantage, as the distant and larger features of 
nature cannot be discerned. Dr. Burnham tells in one of his 
lectures about a boy who, after being fitted with glasses, 
was astonished to see birds. Before this he had thought that 
birds were to be heard, but not to be seen. 



296 HEALTH EDUCATION IN RURAL SCHOOLS 

The far-sighted child excels in those things in which the 
near-sighted child is weakest. Even if he is seated some 
distance from the blackboard, he may read what is written, 
and on field trips he is able to see certain things that are 
hidden from the near-sighted child. But in those things 
that the school usually believes to be most important, 
namely, reading books, he is apt to be very backward. The 
far-sighted pupil whose eyes are exceedingly defective is so 
unable to do near work that necessity will sometimes compel 
parents to get medical advice. This is not the type of pupil 
that suffers usually in the school; it is the boy or the girl 
who is able to see, but with tremendous effort. After a few 
minutes of continuous study the lines on the page may 
begin to dance and the child may feel tired and nervous. 
From that time on the attention is apt to be given inter- 
mittently to study, and since children must do something, 
they are quite likely to be disorderly and the lessons are not 
learned. Many statistics are available to show that such a 
handicap is responsible for a good deal of truancy/ juvenile 
delinquency, and poor scholarship. 

Testing the eyes. Wherever medical inspection of schools 
has been established, the eyes of the children have been 
tested to discover defects. The testing is such a simple 
matter that usually the teacher is instructed to carry out 
these tests. After defects which need correction have been 
discovered, parents are usually informed and asked to take 
the children to a physician or an oculist. Since most of the 
readers of this book will not be teaching in a school subject 
to medical inspection, the teacher will, in most cases, not 
be able to get the advice of a physician in connection with 
any tests she may make, and there will be almost nothing 
helpful in the way of precedent to get defects corrected. 
Nevertheless, the teacher should make these tests. Even if 
she cannot persuade parents to help solve the problem, 




200 



B P 3 
T 3 z m 

D P Fl L 3 



100 



70 



so 



L F 3 P C U 40 

CUL3TPP130 



PC1TF3OUD3 2O 

FIG. 41. SNELLEN'S VISION CHART FOB SCHOOM 

(Reduced in size.) 

(Reproduced from Dr. Frank Allport's " School-Children's Eyes " with the 
permission of the American Medical Association. 



298 HEALTH EDUCATION IN RURAL SCHOOLS 

she can at least get some knowledge of the condition of 
the children's eyes so that she will not expect the impos- 
sible from those with defective vision. She may also be able 
to do something in connection with the regular work of the 
school to alleviate conditions, if it is nothing more than to 
move the seat of a near-sighted boy nearer to the board or 
to give the far-sighted boy more work which does not require 
the constant excessive strain to the eyes. 

Dr. Frank Allport, of the American Medical Association, 
has prepared a visual chart for schools which any teacher 
may use without difficulty. 1 The complete chart may be 
purchased from C. F. Hardy, New York and Chicago, for 
twenty-five cents. 2 

The instructions for the examination of children's eyes 
are as follows: 

Do not expose the card except when in use, as familiarity with 
its face leads children to learn the letters "by heart." 

First-grade children need not be examined. 

The examination should be made privately and singly. 

Children already wearing glasses should be tested with such 
glasses properly adjusted on the face. 

Place the "Vision Chart for Schools" on the wall in a good light; 
do not allow the face of the card to be covered with glass. 

The line marked 20 should be seen at twenty feet, therefore 
place the pupil twenty feet from the card. 

Each eye should be examined separately. 

Hold a card over one eye while the other is being examined. 
Do not press on the covered eye, as the pressure might induce an 
incorrect examination. 

Have the pupil begin at the top of the test-card and read aloud 
down as far as he can, first with one eye and then with the other. 

For the use of those children not knowing the names of letters, 

1 Read Frank Allport, M.D. School-Children's Eyes. Conservation of 
Vision Series, Pamphlet 1. American Medical Association, Chicago. 

2 The ordinary Snellen chart may usually be secured free by writing to 
the State Superintendent of Schools. 



THE CARE OF THE EYE AND EAR 299 

the sign ( uu ) has been placed on each line in various positions. 
The child should indicate in which position this sign is placed. 
A cardboard symbol ( ui ) can be easily cut out, which the child 
can hold in its hand. It should hold the figure in the same position 
as the one it is expected to see on the chart. For the purpose 
of convenience each line ends with the sign ( ** ) in various 
positions. 

If a pupil fails to read a majority of the letters in the number 
20 line of the test types with either eye, it is an indication that 
the eyesight is defective so that an oculist should be consulted. 

Such a test as has been outlined will usually reveal short- 
sightedness, but it is difficult to determine far-sightedness 
because many children are naturally far-sighted, although 
they can see clearly for the time of the test by an active 
power of accommodation. Often a case of far-sightedness is 
regarded as a case of short-sightedness, because the pupil 
is unable to make out the letters of the lowest line at the 
distance indicated. Far-sightedness is usually indicated by 
redness of the eyes, watery appearance, and headaches after 
protracted and close use of the eyes. Although the teacher 
should naturally be interested to find out the general char- 
acter of the eye defect, so as to relieve strain and improve 
school work, she should studiously refrain from making a 
diagnosis for parents, because only an expert is competent 
to do that. If she makes the test carefully and observes 
the pupil at work she will be competent to say, however, 
that something is wrong with the pupil's eyes and that an 
oculist ought to be consulted. 

The detection of eye-strain. It will be noticed that the 
mere use of this chart itself only assists in determining 
whether the pupil examined has a low visual acuity. Such 
a test may not detect many of those suffering from eye- 
strain, for, as we have already pointed out, the ability to see 
does not mean that one's eyes are perfect, since clear vision may 
result from an unusual expenditure of energy. There are 



300 HEALTH EDUCATION IN RURAL SCHOOLS 

other means, however, of discovering these unfortunate 
conditions. If the child works well at his books for a short 
time and then becomes restless, if he scowls or frowns when 
reading, if his eyes seem inflamed and he complains of fre- 
quent headaches, the teacher may be very suspicious that 
eye-strain is present. 

If the teacher gains the confidence of her district and can 
have a subject like the care of the eyes discussed at one of 
the parent-teacher association meetings she may be able to 
follow up pupils who need help and get parents to consult 
an oculist. 

Training children to care for their eyes. Every teacher 
who discovers children with defective vision will, as has been 
suggested, be able to treat them with much more sympathy 
and understanding. But besides trying to make the condi- 
tions for eye-work much more satisfactory for them in the 
schoolroom, such children, along with all normal children, 
need to be trained to use their eyes properly. 

A committee of the National Education Association has 
recommended the following rules for the preservation of eye- 
sight: 

Take care of your eyesight; upon it depends much of your safety 

and success in life. 

Always hold your head up when you read. 
Hold your book 14 inches from your face. 
Be sure that the light is clear and good. 
Never read in the twilight, in a moving car, or in a reclining 

position. 

Never read with the sun shining directly on the book. 
Never face the light in reading. 

Let the light come from behind or over your left shoulder. 
Avoid books or papers printed indistinctly or in small type. 
Rest your eyes frequently by looking away from the book. 
Cleanse the eyes night and morning with pure water. 
Never rub your eyes with your hands or an unclean towel, 

handkerchief or cloth. 



THE CARE OF THE EYE AND EAR 301 

Rules like these should be thoroughly discussed in class, 
and then an effort should be made to put them into practice. 
Some of them may be carried out in the schoolroom under 
the watchful eye of the teacher. Some of them are home 
habits. It would be interesting in the case of these to have 
them dramatized (see p. 48) and to get children to report 
to the class on successes and failures. Some of these reports 
might readily be incorporated in the health record. (See 
pp. 51-55.) 

While the teacher can usually do little in the way of re- 
modeling a schoolroom so that it will be more hygienic for 
the eyes, sometimes she may do something to better condi- 
tions. If new shades are to be bought, she may recommend 
not the usual dark green shades which are opaque but those 
tan in color and translucent. Such shades cut off the blind- 
ing rays of the sun but allow enough light to shine through 
to keep the room well illuminated. The Draper window 
shade (manufactured by the Draper Shade Co., Spiceland, 
Indiana) is one of the most adjustable. All children should 
be given the opportunity and responsibility of adjusting 
the shades. 

Popular articles on the conservation of vision. Teachers 
who wish to get more information about the eye than is 
furnished in this chapter, or in the text or reference books 
at hand, will be interested to know that the American Med- 
ical Association, 535 North Dearborn Street, Chicago, has 
prepared under the direction of experts a series of pamphlets 
on the conservation of vision. They have been prepared 
especially for the ordinary reader. Many of them would be 
useful and illuminating to teachers. The regular price of 
these pamphlets is five cents each. A reduction is allowed if 
ten or more are ordered. The following pamphlets are now 
ready: 



302 HEALTH EDUCATION IN RURAL SCHOOLS 

Pamphlet I: School-Children's Eyes, by Dr. Frank Allport, Chicago. 

Pamphlet II: Industrial and Household Accidents to the Eye, by Dr. 
Harold Gifford, Omaha 

Pamphlet HI: Wearing Glasses, by Dr. W. B. Lancaster, Boston. 

Pamphlet IV: The Relation of Illumination to Visual Efficiency, by Dr. 
Ellice M. Alger, New York. 

Pamphlet V: Trachoma in Eastern Kentucky, by Dr. J. A. Stucky, 
Lexington, Ky. 

Pamphlet VI: Auto-Intoxication and the Eye, by Dr. H. D. Bruns, New 
Orleans. 

Pamphlet VII: Eye-Strain, by Dr. Hiram Woods, Baltimore. 

Pamphlet VIII : Lenses and Refraction, by Dr. Frank Allport. Chicago. 

Pamphlet IX: The Eye and Its Functions, by Dr. Frank Allport, Chicago. 

Pamphlet X: Care of the Eyes, by Dr. Frank Allport, Chicago. 

Pamphlet XI: Infant Blindness, or Ophthalmia Neonatorum, by Dr. 
F. Park Lewis, Buffalo, New York. 

Pamphlet XII: Ordinary Eye Diseases, by Dr. L. W. Dean, Iowa City. 
Iowa. 

Pamphlet XIII. Usual and Unusual Eye Accidents, by Dr. E. C. Ellett, 
Memphis, Tennessee. 

Pamphlet XIV: The Eyes of Transportation Employees, by Dr. J. J. 
Carroll, Baltimore. 

Pamphlet XV: Ocular Hygiene in Schools, by Dr. S. D. Risley, Phila- 
delphia. 

Pamphlet XVI : Whiskey, Tobacco and Drugs and the Eye, by Dr. Edward 
Jackson, Denver. 

Pamphlet XVII: The Oculist and the Optician, by Dr. Edward Jackson, 
Denver. 

Pamphlet XVIII: Preparation for Blindness, by Dr. F. Park Lewis, 
Buffalo. 

Pamphlet XIX: What to Do for Blind Children, by Dr. F. Park Lewis, 
Buffalo. 

Pamphlet XX: Blindness from Wood Alcohol, by Dr. Casey Wood, 
Chicago. 

This series is now ready; others will be added later. 

The National Committee on the Prevention of Blindness, 
130 East Twenty-second Street, New York City, also 
publishes a number of popular articles at nominal prices. 
Individual copies will be sent free to teachers on request. 

The importance of good hearing in education. The dis- 
covery that many children in our public schools have defec- 
tive hearing has thrown a flood of light on several perplex- 



THE CARE OF THE EYE AND EAR 303 

ing problems. As in the case of near- or far-sightedness, the 
child who is deaf frequently does not realize his condition. 
He does not hear the same words spoken by the teacher or 
the pupils that are heard by his classmates or other mem- 
bers of the school. Consequently he misunderstands what 
is said. He thinks, perhaps, that the teacher gives certain 
directions and acts accordingly only to discover to his 
astonishment, not only that he is apparently wrong, but 
also that his motives are misinterpreted. The teacher scolds 
him for something he cannot help. He becomes sensitive 
to being scolded or laughed at for failings for which he is 
not responsible. Often he loses faith in himself; he stops 
trying; he becomes inattentive and even disorderly. His 
handicap prevents him from getting a normal, healthy 
attitude toward his fellow beings and toward his school 
work. The removal of such a handicap often entirely makes 
over a boy or girl not only so far as progress in school is 
concerned, but also in appearance and attitude. 

Deafness is responsible not only for poor work done in 
school; it is often also a symptom of serious import to the 
general health. It may indicate adenoids or a chronic in- 
flammation of the throat and inner ear. 

Testing the hearing. A simple method of testing the hear- 
ing is the whisper test. The pupil stands with his back 
toward the teacher at a distance of twenty feet. The teacher 
whispers several things which he is asked to put down on 
paper, or he is directed to do certain things like holding up 
his right hand, touching his head, etc. If care is taken so 
that no pupil sees what the other does, it is possible for the 
.teacher to test a number of pupils at one time. 

Another test is the watch test. The teacher holds an 
ordinary stop-watch three feet from the pupil on a level 
with his ear. The distance between the watch and the pupils 
is varied from time to time so that the teacher may find out 



304 HEALTH EDUCATION IN RURAL SCHOOLS 

the least distance at which the pupil may hear distinctly. 
The stop-watch is better than an ordinary watch because 
it is a more accurate test. Often the pupil thinks he hears 
when he does not. 

In addition to finding out whether the hearing is normal, 
according to Dr. Allport, answers to the following questions 
should be ascertained: 

Does the pupil complain of earache in either ear? 
Does matter (pus) or a foul odor proceed from either ear? 
Is the pupil frequently subject to "colds in the head" and dis- 
charges from the nose and throat? 

Is the pupil a habitual "mouth-breather"? 

An affirmative answer to any of these questions Dr. 
Allport says should be sufficient to warn parents that some- 
thing serious may be involved. 

Deaf children are often so apt in reading the lips of those 
who are speaking that even parents themselves do not 
know that their children have defective hearing. If their 
attention is called to this matter tactfully by the teacher, 
it is probably the exceptional parent who would not consult 
a physician. If the deafness is irremediable, the teacher can 
do little but take special precautions, as in the seating of the 
child, to provide the most favorable conditions so that the 
child may hear. 

REFERENCES FOR CLASS READING 

F. B. Dresslar. School Hygiene, pp. 221-247. 

Hough and Sedgwick. The Human Mechanism, pp. 246-261, 395-492. 

W. L. Pyle. Personal Hygiene, pp. 169-274. 

L. M. Terman. The Hygiene of the School Child, chap. xiv. 

CLASS EXERCISES 

1. Dr. Terman estimates that from fifteen to thirty per cent of the 
children in our public schools have seriously defective vision. What 
do the investigations in your own State show? 

2. What arguments would you present to induce a parent to take his 
child to an oculist? 



THE CARE OF THE EYE AND EAR 805 

3. Visit a rural school and notice the lighting. What defects do you 
notice? How might the teacher help to overcome these difficulties? 
Do the children seem to be using their eyes properly? Enumerate 
the bad habits noticed. 

4. On a very dark day, when the use of the eyes in reading would be 
harmful, what change in a school program would you suggest? 

5. Outline a talk which might be given to a parent-teacher association 
on what the school and home might do to conserve and improve the 
vision of the children. 

6. Write out definite plans for a half-dozen consecutive lessons to chil- 
dren on the care of the eye. Indicate the age of the children. 

7. Test the eyes of a member of your class according to the directions 
given on page 298. 

8. Why do so many of the so-called children's diseases (measles, scarlet 
fever, mumps, etc.) lead frequently to discharging ears or even partial 
deafness? 

9. Demonstrate by actual experiment upon various members of your 
class which of the two methods of testing audition described in the 
text is the preferable one. 

10. Recall as many classrooms as possible in which you have studied. 
Were the conditions of lighting generally satisfactory or the reverse? 



CHAPTER XVH 

THE MEASUREMENT OF THE TEACHER'S WORK 
IN HYGIENE 

There is a tremendous need of the gospel of school hygiene. Every 
person that preaches it is indeed a missionary. This gospel needs 
to go into many dark places, for there are hundreds of schools in 
which those in authority violate every known law of the proper 
housing and physical care of children. 

(Superintendent Linnceus N. Hines.) 

Ye see then how that by works a man is justified, and not by 
faith only. James 2:24. 

IF the mere memorizing of subject-matter were the sole 
achievement of value in the health education of pupils, the 
measurement of the teacher's success by either herself or her 
superintendent would be an easy matter. But this book has 
failed in its purpose if it has not made perfectly clear to the 
reader that the getting of information about health is of least 
importance and that the doing of things necessary for the getting 
and conserving of good health is the real standard of achievement. 

Why the measurement of health work is difficult To give 
teachers and superintendents some basis for estimating the 
value of work done in health education, the author has 
attempted to formulate a plan for judging the teacher's 
results. This is, of course, a much more difficult matter than 
measuring results in penmanship, arithmetic, punctuation, 
or spelling, where the accomplishment is much more tangi- 
ble. However, even a crude standard is better than none at 
all, and it is offered to teachers and educators with the hope 
that it may be useful and eventually lead to revision so as 
to become more just and accurate. It is often a difficult 
matter to estimate the worth of something accomplished. 
For example, the teacher may not cover a wide area in her 
instruction; yet she may do the children and community an 



MEASUREMENT OF THE TEACHER'S WORK 307 

inestimable service by focusing her efforts on some pressing 
and exceedingly vital school or community problem. 

Then, too, a teacher who initiates the kind of health edu- 
cation advocated in this volume may not be able to get many 
tangible results the first year; but she may do much to 
develop a sympathetic attitude on the part of pupils, par- 
ents, and community, so that the next teacher who pursues 
a similar policy and expends an equal amount of energy for 
the same length of time will get a larger return in specific 
results. The work of the first teacher has made possible 
much of the success of the second. But if the reader will 
bear in mind that the plan of measurement proposed here 
is known to be crude, he will not expect to measure achieve- 
ments to a hair's breadth; he will see that an attempt at 
measurement, even in this way, may help by setting up a 
standard which teachers may be inspired to attain. 

The number of points assigned to various phases of health 
education is a matter of judgment, and as the plan of meas- 
urement is used it ought to be so modified by experience as 
to be more useful. It should be noted, however, that while 
it is possible to make it more accurate, it may be so detailed 
and awkward in its application as to interfere seriously 
with its use. The writer has had in mind assigning a given 
number of points to particular results. On the basis of a 
certain number of these points the teacher's work might be 
graded poor, good, or excellent. 

Health education is so complex in its nature and so de- 
pendent on time to obtain definite and permanent results 
that this scale ought probably to be applied at the end of a 
year's work, although if the teacher had it before her at the 
beginning of the year, she might be better able to plan 
her work, and also to determine whether she is doing those 
things necessary for a creditable rating. Incidentally the 
plan presented makes a good review of the most essential 
things in this book. 



SOS HEALTH EDUCATION IN RURAL SCHOOLS 



PLAN FOR RATING THE TEACHER'S WORK* 



I. Assignment of time. 

a. Five minutes per day for daily 

inspection of hands and teeth of 

entire school. 
6. A minimum of fifteen to thirty 

minutes per week for instruction in 

first four grades. 

c. A minimum of thirty to sixty min- 
utes per week for instruction in last 
four grades. 

d. Prepared work in the last four 
grades equal to time assigned on 
the regular program for recitation. 

e. A minimum of fifteen minutes per 
day for supervised indoor physical 
exercise or out-door exercise if the 
weather permits. 

II. Getting information. 

a. In the last four grades children 
should read from one half to the 
whole of some regular school text- 
book. 

b. Information should be organized 
so as to point to action as a method 
of solving problems. 

c. The consideration of at least a 



dozen practical problems 
course of a year. 



the 



Score 
5 



1/2 point for every five 
minutes. 

1/2 point for every ten 
minutes. 

1/2 point for every ten 
minutes required. 

1 point for every five min- 
utes. 



2 points for 1/2. 4 points 
for whole. 



3 points. 



1 point for every two prob- 
lems up to twelve. 



III. Teacher's knowledge of the children's health? 

a. Number in school having defective 
teeth. 

b. Number in school having defective 
eyes. 

c. Number in school having defective 
hearing. 

d. Number in school subject to sore 2 points for each, 
throat. 

e. Number in school subject to com- 
mon colds. 

/. Number in school having bad habits 

of posture. 
g. Number in school breathing through 

the mouth. 

1 The author would be pleased to hear from teachers and school superintendents who 
have tried to make use of this plan of measurement. 

2 See chap. IV. 



MEASUREMENT OF THE TEACHER'S WORK 309 



IV. Clean teeth and clean hands. 

a. Percentage of pupils having clean 
teeth habitually, as shown by daily 
inspection. 

b. Percentage of pupils who acquire 
habits of keeping the teeth clean 
during the year. 

c. Percentage of pupils having clean 
hands habitually, as shown by daily 
inspection. 

d. Percentage of pupils who acquire 
habits of keeping the hands clean 
during the year. 



1 point for every 10 
cent of pupils. 1 



per 



3 points for every 10 per 
cent of pupils. 

1 point for every 10 per 
cent of pupils. 

3 points for every 10 per 
cent of pupils. 



V. Habits of correct posture? 

a. Percentage of pupils who are in 
correct sitting posture habitually 
at time of regular measurement. 

b. Percentage of pupils who have 
formed during the year habit of 
good sitting posture. 

c. Percentage of pupils passing the 
triple test at time of regular meas- 
urement. 

d. Percentage of pupils who have 
passed the triple test during the 
year. 



2 points for every 10 per 
cent of pupils. 



6 points for every 10 per 
cent of pupils. 

2 points for every 10 per 
cent of pupils. 

6 points for every 10 per 
cent of pupils. 



VI. Training in health habits. 

(Clean hands, clean teeth, and good pos- 1 point for every 10 per 
ture not to be counted.) cent of pupils forming one 

health habit. 

For list of habits see pp. 55-56. 2 points for every 10 per 

cent forming two habits, 
etc. 

Any teacher ia entitled to credit for not allowing the habits formed before she began 
work to lapse. 
2 See chap. XII. 



310 HEALTH EDUCATION IN RURAL SCHOOLS 



VII. Making by children of devices and apparatus conducive to health. 

Fly-traps. 
Fly-swatters. 
Paper drinking-cups. 
Screening schoolhouse. 
Screening privies. 
Covers for privy-holes. 
Window-boards. 
Rat-traps. 

Drainage-trough for pump. 
Cupboard for domestic science. 
Table for domestic science. 
Piece of play apparatus for school- 
grounds. 

Model of idea! farm in sandbox. 
A fireless cooker. 
Etc. 



1 point for every 10 per cent 
of pupils making any one 
device or piece of apparatus. 
If school project, add 5 
points. If class project, add 

2 points. 



VIII. Health activities of children. 

Fly campaign. 

Killing rats. 

Oiling pools or puddles against 

mosquitoes. 

Keeping outhouses clean. 
Ditching school-yard. 
Field trips to study mosquitoes, see 

model dairy, etc. 
Earning money to further the health 

of the school. 
Training in heating and ventilating 

the schoolroom. 
School exercises on health day or for 

special health purposes. 
Learning to play at least six new 

games. 
Soliciting parents to contribute 

domestic science equipment. 
Preparing hot noon lunch. 
Keeping health records. 
Collecting emergency outfit. 
Etc. 



1 point for every 10 per cent 
of pupils engaging in any 
one activity. If class pro- 
ject, add 2 points. If school 
project, add 5 points. 



MEASUREMENT OF THE TEACHER'S WORK 311 



IX. Securing the cooperation of the community by the teacher. 



a. Forming parent-teacher associa- 
tion and devoting at least one 
third of its meetings to health 
problems. 

b. Assisting in carrying on a parent- 
teacher association already formed 
and devoting some meetings to 
health problems. 

c. Getting association to contribute 
work or money to some health 
project of interest to the school. 

d. Securing either with or without 
the cooperation of the parent- 
teacher association an appropria- 
tion of money by the school au- 
thorities for health purposes. 



8 points for forming associa- 
tion. 3 points for every 
health meeting. 

3 points for every health 
problem. 



1 point for every dollar of 
value. 



1 point for every dollar of 
value. 



X. Other activities of the teacher. 

a. Adjusting school furniture twice 
a year. 

b. Rural school field day. 

c. Correction of defects, as far- 
sightedness, etc., by persuading 
parents to consult physicians. 

d. Reading one good book on health. 

e. Getting bacteriological examina- 
tion of drinking water. 

/. Getting up school or community 
entertainment. 



3 points. 

10 points. 

10 points for every individ- 
ual. 

3 points. 
10 points. 

1 point for every dollar of 
value invested in books or 
apparatus pertaining to 
health. 



CONCLUSION 

Failure 45 points or less 

Good 45 to 100 points 

Excellent above 100 points 



312 HEALTH EDUCATION IN RURAL SCHOOLS 

Let us pass judgment on the work of several teachers 
according to a number of points. 

The teacher who fails. The work of Teacher A is typical 
of the work of thousands throughout the United States. She 
has taught in her district for eight months. She has twenty 
pupils. At the beginning of the year, the general sanitary 
conditions were bad. The well had a wooden platform which 
was so rickety that slops from the children's drinking easily 
fell back into the well. The well was also less than a hundred 
feet from a filthy privy the contents of which were exposed 
to the flies. There was no play apparatus. The schoolroom 
was partially fitted with adjustable furniture. The children 
still drank from a common dipper and used a common towel 
if one was supplied. There was no thermometer to help 
regulate the temperature. The window shades were torn. 
There was no jacketed stove. No equipment for the prepa- 
ration of midday lunches was available. The textbooks 
adopted by the school were somewhat antiquated. 

What is accomplished in health education during the 
year? 

Instruction in hygiene is confined to the last four grades. 
One hour per week is assigned for recitation and an equal 
amount of time for preparation. The children read the whole 
of one of the textbooks. Fully a dozen practical problems 
are considered, but the children recite almost verbatim from 
the books. No time is assigned for indoor physical exercise, 
and there is no inspection of hands and teeth. The children 
pass the written and oral tests proposed by the teacher with 
results quite satisfactory to the teacher, although no effort 
is made to train the children in hygiene. 

At the close of the year there has been no change in the 
surroundings. The well is still uncared-for, the privy is 
more filthy than ever, the school furniture has not been 
adjusted, the common dipper is still in use, the window 



MEASUREMENT OF THE TEACHER'S WORK 313 

shades remain unpatched, and no play apparatus has been 
provided. The teacher knows almost nothing about the 
health of the children. Those who had dirty teeth at the 
beginning of the year still have unclean mouths; those who 
were round-shouldered have not improved in posture. The 
community has not become interested in the slightest degree 
in health problems. The teacher has read no good book 
on hygiene. We might continue indefinitely to enumerate 
what the teacher did not accomplish. She has merely done 
what her predecessors had done for generations, and she 
has failed to do what they neglected. Although the teacher 
had possibly a good spirit and was willing to do anything 
that seemed to her to be worth doing, she has signally failed 
because she did not understand her opportunities. While 
the sincerity of her efforts might be well appreciated, her 
results are certainly pathetic. 
Her score is computed thus: 
1 hour per week for recitation in the upper grades ... 3 po nts 

1 hour per week for outside preparation 3 

Whole textbook read 4 

12 practical problems considered _6 

Total 16 * 

Probably nobody would claim that this was passable work. 
It is easier to make this judgment than to determine just 
how many points are necessary for a passing grade. 

Let us suppose that a teacher were to earn all the possible 
points suggested for minimum requirements under "Assign- 
ment of Time," "Getting Information,'* and the "Teacher's 
Knowledge of the Children's Health." She would win 44 
points. Even then her work would not be passable, for it 
would have failed to secure important results in habit and 
action. Unless some noticeable change takes place in the 
lives of the pupils the results can scarcely be called educa- 
tional. Let us say that any teacher who cannot earn more 



314 HEALTH EDUCATION IN RURAL SCHOOLS 

than 45 points is not doing passable work in health educa- 
tion. Somebody may object to this by saying that particu- 
lar combinations might be made showing that habits were 
formed and desirable action secured, without earning more 
than 45 points. In other words the elements under I, II, 
and III might be passed over lightly. It is possible, of 
course, for the teacher to do this and get some effective 
work done. However, as one studies the plan of measure- 
ment it is rather difficult to imagine a teacher doing much 
under IV, V, VI, VII, etc., without earning a considerable 
number of points under I, II, and III. While theoretically 
an achievement might be figured out with 45 points or less, 
which a group of educators might call passable work, the 
writer doubts that this would actually occur in practice. 

The teacher who does good work. Probably nobody 
would disagree that earning more than 45 points would 
always mean some kind of worthy achievement in health 
education, for anything beyond the 45 points would neces- 
sitate actually doing something having positive health 
value. Let us estimate roughly that any teacher getting 
from 45 to 100 points is doing good work in health education. 
What may Teacher B accomplish so as to be judged an 
effective teacher of hygiene? 

Teacher B has the same kind of school as Teacher A. 
Finding that the textbooks in hygiene were quite unsatis- 
factory, she recommended that a few up-to-date supple- 
mentary books be purchased. Six supplementary books 
were finally bought involving a cost of four dollars (4 points). 
All the points suggested under I, II, and III (44) were 
earned. By the end of the year fifty per cent of the pupils 
had clean hands (5) and clean teeth (5) habitually. Twenty- 
five per cent of these children had formed these habits (15) 
during the school-year. The schoolroom furniture was ad- 
justed twice (3). The children all brought individual drink- 



MEASUREMENT OF THE TEACHER'S WORK 315 

ing-cups from home and eighty per cent of the children used 
them habitually (8). The total number of points earned is 
84. It is obvious that Teacher B is getting results. The 
children are being trained in matters of first importance to 
health. 

The teacher who does excellent work. Teacher C in a 
similar school and under similar conditions not only does 
all that B has done (84 points), but much more. Under her 
leadership a parent-teacher association is formed and three 
meetings are devoted to health (17). The friendly coopera- 
tion of the parents is aroused to such an extent that one boy 
suffering from eye-strain is taken to an oculist on the recom- 
mendation of the teacher and the defect is corrected (10). 
Under her guidance a trough is made to catch the slops from 
the pump. The most advanced class, numbering five, or 
twenty per cent of the school, does this as a class project (4). 
This same class also makes a teeter-board (4). A vigorous 
campaign is made by the teacher to get the children to 
keep sanitary the privies, which had just been cleaned out. 
Ninety per cent of the children cooperate hi this effort. This 
was a school project (14). This teacher earns 133 points, and 
according to the writer's judgment has done excellent work. 

There is, of course, still much to be done, but if the teacher 
who succeeds Teacher C has similar tact, intelligence, and 
courage, the health education in this district will steadily 
advance. 

Suggestions to superintendents and teachers as to the 
use of the scale. By the end of the first month of teaching, 
the teacher should be so familiar with her school, the chil- 
dren, and the neighborhood that she can make definite plans 
for the health work for the year. A careful study of the plan 
of measurement would suggest what might be done, and 
with this before her she could decide what she would do and 
if she did how her efforts might be rated. 



316 HEALTH EDUCATION IN RURAL SCHOOLS 

Superintendents who wish to make a "drive" on health 
education will find it desirable to call all the teachers to- 
gether in conference and make plans for the year. With 
proper leadership every teacher should be able to do at least 
passable work, and many might get excellent results. If the 
work attempted and done could be checked up once or twice 
during the year, so that each might know the other's diffi- 
culties and also what was accomplished with handicaps, the 
teacher would no doubt be greatly stimulated. 

As a final suggestion the author would like to emphasize 
again what has been mentioned so frequently hi previous 
pages the need of enlisting tactfully, cautiously but per- 
sistently, the interest and cooperation of the parents and 
community if the best results are to be attained. 

CLASS EXERCISES 

1. Make a study of the health work of one or two rural schools. Judg- 
ing according to the plan of measurement suggested in this chapter 
is the teacher doing poor, good, or excellent work? 

2. Can you add to the list of items or activities suggested in this plan 
of measurement? 

3. Figure out in detail two different sets of teacher achievements, each 
pair of which might be scored as poor, good, and excellent. 

4. After studying the situation in some rural school make definite 
plans for a year showing just what you would expect to accomplish 
so as to have your work rated excellent. 

5. Make specific plans for a training class in hygiene. See pp. 56-57. 



INDEX 



Air. See Heating and Ventilating. 

Allan, H. A., 32 

Allport, Dr. Frank, 290, 298, 304. 

American Flag, 226. 

American Posture League, 231, 240, 

242. 
Averill, Dr. L. A., 6. 

Bailey, Dr., 135. 

Bancroft, Jessie H., 229, 230. 

Barn, scale for measurement, 160. 

Bartlett, Dr. W. M., 257. 

Bashore, Dr., 14-16. 

Bausch-Lomb Optical Co.. 110. 

Bray, Wm. J., 131. 

Briggs, Dr., 14. 

Brown, Edward F., 51-54. 

Burnham, W. H., 38, 57, 91, 180 t 

188. 
Butler, Nicholas Murray, 78. 

Carter, Dr., 166. 

Cat and sanitation, 179-81. 

ChHd Welfare Magazine, 88. 

Children, rights of country children, 
82, 33; country children less 
healthy than city children, 29-31 ; 
textbooks, 117, 118; supplemen- 
tary books, 118, 119. 

Cigrand, Dr. B. C., 256. 

Clapper, E. N., 4. 

Cleanliness, minimum requirements, 
27. 

Colds, often mark beginning of va- 
rious diseases, 72; common colds 
and hygiene of nose and throat, 
248-54; danger, 248; contagious, 
248, 249; teacher's problem, 249; 
causes of colds, 249; prevention, 
249-51; treatment, 251-53; what 
teacher can do, 253, 254. 

Compositions on health, 110, 111. 

Country, health conditions in, 11- 
37; usually thought to be more 
healthful than the city, 11 ; natural 



opportunities for health, 11-13; 
New York City healthier than 
country, 11-13; defective hous- 
ing, 14-15; overcrowding, 15, 16; 
health surveys, 16-22. 

Course of study, planning course of 
study, 91-123; value, 91-93; out- 
lining, 94-96. 

Creel, Dr. R. H., 173. 

Cubberley, E. P., 31. 

Defects, discovery by teacher, 61. 

Disease, preventable, 7; common 
transmissible diseases of child- 
hood, 73, 76. 

Dramatization, as method of teach- 
ing hygiene, 48; care of eyes, 
48. 

Dresslar, Dr. Fletcher B., 129, 180, 
255. 

Drinking-cup, dangers from com- 
mon cup, 27-28, 141, 142; how to 
make paper drinking-cups, 104; 
individual cups, 143, 144. 

Ear, importance of good hearing in 
education, 302, 303; testing the 
hearing, 303, 304. 

Education. See Health. 

Educational Exhibition Co., 110. 

Epidemics, instruction during, 100, 
101. 

Emergencies, taught by dramatiza- 
tion, 48; training, 98, 99. 

Emerson, Dr. W. R. P., 67. 

Eyes, care of, 290-302; how we see, 
290, 291; defects and eye-strain, 
290-94; effect of eye-strain on 
school work, 294; defective vision 
and school work, 295, 296; testing 
the eyes, 296-99; detection of eye- 
strain, 299, 300 , training children 
to care for their eyes, 300, 301; 
popular articles on conservation 
of vision, 301, 302. 



318 



INDEX 



Farm, ideal, 108, 109. 

Fatigue, cause of bad posture, 244, 
245. 

Ferrell, Dr., 128, 129. 

Fireless cooker, how to make, 270-72. 

Fisher, Dr. Irving, 8. 

Fly, plan of paper for parent-teacher 
association, 85; war on flies, 148- 
64; as disease-carrier, 149, 150; life 
history, 150-52; problem in rural 
schools, 152, 153; presenting prob- 
lem to children, 153; swatting, 
153, 154; poisoning, 154; making 
sticky fly-paper, 155; making fly- 
traps, 155, 156; screening, 158-60; 
destroying breeding-places, 160; 
celebrating fly week, 162; composi- 
tions on the fly, 162; fly catechism, 
163, 164. 

Foods, hygiene of digestion and, 266- 
89; information acquired should 
have practical bearings, 266, 267; 
practical information insufficient, 
267, 268; teacher as community 
leader in food conservation, 268- 
72; hot lunch at noon, 272; bene- 
fits, 272, 273; equipment for hot 
lunches, 273-75; planning lunches, 
275-78; school credit for home 
work, 278, 279; recipes for school 
lunches, 279-83; helpful bulletins 
and books, 283-85. 

Forbush, Edward Howe, 172, 176, 
180. 

Gerhard, Wm. Paul, 134. 
Gregg, F. M., 93, 94. 

Habits, goal of health education, 36; 
getting children to form health 
habits, 38-57; difficult to form, 
38, 39; experiment in habit forma- 
tion, 39-43; how a health habit 
was formed, 39-41 ; testing, 41-43; 
motives necessary, 43; health in- 
adequate as motive, 43; marks for 
habits, 44, 45; allow no exceptions 
in practice, 45, 46; associate pleas- 
ure with habits to be formed, 47; 
dramatization, 48; practice at 
school, 49, 50; possibility of not 



functioning outside of school, 50, 
51; value of health records, 51-55; 
list of desirable habits, 55; undesir- 
able habits, 55, 56; training class, 
56, 57; individual instruction, 59; 
cooperation, 89, 90; relating in- 
formation to habits, 93, 94; habits 
conducive to incorrect posture, 
245, 246; inculcating of health ha- 
bits in connection with hot lunches, 
287, 288. 

Hands, inspection for clean hands, 
48. 

Health, the first aim of the school, 
1-9; necessary for realization of all 
other aims, 2; necessary to make 
living, 2^4; acquisition of knowl- 
edge dependent on it, 4; makes for 
morality, 4; conducive to happi- 
ness, 5; related to preparedness, 5; 
cornerstone of good citizenship, 6; 
minimum requirements for rural 
schools, 23-29; health work in city 
and rural schools compared, 33; 
.health boards passive, 34; educa- 
tion more important than legisla- 
tion, 35, 36; health records, 51, 55, 
101-06; emphasis on health rather 
than disease, 99; health rules, 106, 
107; health creed, 108; composi- 
tions on health, 110, 111; free 
printed matter, 111-16; planning 
health day, 116, 117. 

Health Education League, 114, 115. 

Heating and ventilating, 180-96; 
usual conceptions of healthful air, 
180; experiments, 184, 185; inter- 
pretation of experiments, 186, 187; 
importance of drafts, 188, 189; need 
of air being moist, 189; standards 
for schoolroom air, 189, 190; de- 
fects of common stove, 190; jack- 
eted stove, 190, 191 ; what teacher 
may do, 191, 192; getting children 
to study heating and ventilating, 
192, 193; training children, 193, 
194. 

Hectograph, 54, 61. 

Height and weight, importance of 
knowing, 63-68; table for children, 
66. 



INDEX 



319 



Hines, Linnaeus H., 306. 

Hoag, Dr. E. B., 61, 72-76. 

Hodge, Dr. C., 150. 

Hookworm, nature, how trans- 
ferred, 128, 129. 

Hot lunches. See Foods. 

Hutchinson, Dr. Woods, 148, 150, 
180, 248. 

Hygiene, its teaching status, 3. 

Insects. See Fly, Mosquito, Louse. 
Instruction, in lower and higher 

grades, 97, 98; during epidemics, 

100, 101. 

Kernachan, Dr., 131. 
Keystone View Co., 109, 110. 
Knowledge, for own sake, 2. 

Lantern slides, 109, 110. 

Laws, better laws on sanitation 
needed, 35. 

Lighting, minimum requirements, 26, 
27. 

Lincoln, Dr. D. F., 241. 

Louse, carrier of disease, 169; in- 
struction of children, 169, 170. 

Lynch, Dr. Chas. F., 126-28. 

Mangold, Dr. George B., 59. 

Measurement of teacher's work in 
hygiene, 306-16; why difficult, 
306, 307; plan for rating teacher's 
work, 308-11; teacher who does 
good work, 308-11; teacher who 
fails, 312-14; teacher who does 
good work, 314-315; teacher who 
does excellent work, 315; sug- 
gestions to superintendents and 
teachers on use of scale, 315, 316. 

Medical inspection, need in rural 
schools, 59-61. 

Millbury, Dr. Guy, 255. 

Minimum health requirements for 
rural schools, 23-29. 

Mosher, Dr. Eliza M., 230. 

Mosquito, carrier of disease, 164, 
165 ; problem in rural schools, 165 ; 
how study mosquito, 165-68; how 
children may help solve problems, 
168. 



National Congress of Mothers and 

Parent-Teacher Associations, 83, 

88. 
Newspaper, for advertising school. 

90. 
New York City, healthier than 

country, 13, 14. 
North, Dr. Chas. E., 124. 

Old Oaken Bucket, the, from a sani- 
tary point of view, 125, 126. 
Osborne, Dr. Caroline, 179. 

Parent-teacher association, securing 
cooperation of parents and com- 
munity, 78-90; need, 80, 81; 
achievements, 81, 82; how to or- 
ganize, 83, 84; meetings, 84-87; 
subjects for meetings, 87-89; co- 
operation with parents to get 
habits formed, 89, 90; appeal to 
neighborhood pride, 90. 

Pasteur, Louis, 8. 

Patri, Angelo, 59. 

Pictures, use, 109, 110. 

Play, and physical education, 197- 
227; muscular activity and health, 
197, 198; why country children 
need physical training, 198, 199; 
value of play, 199, 200; why coun- 
try children need to play, 199-201; 
neglect by teacher, 201, 202; size 
of playground, 202-04; good games 
for out-of-doors, 204-07; games 
suited for particular grades, 207- 
18; apparatus, 218-21; how and 
where secured, 221, 222; athletic 
badges for boys, 222-24; athletic 
badges for girls, 224; getting the 
community to play, 224-26; health- 
ful physical activity goal of school, 
226, 227. 

Posture, and health, 229-47; serious- 
ness of bad posture, 229-31; cor- 
rect posture defined, 231, 232; 
teacher's problem, 232; lack of 
proper exercise cause of bad pos- 
ture, 232, 233; overcoming men- 
tal indifference of pupils, 233, 234; 
educating consciousness of correct 
posture, 234, 235; training in pos- 



320 



INDEX 



ture, 235, 236; cooperation of 
home, 236, 237; home exercises, 
237, .238; triple test, 238, 239; 
marks and promotion in posture, 
239-240; good posture pins, 240, 
241; prevention of incorrect pos- 
ture, 241; schoolroom seats, 241- 
43; fatigue and posture, 244, 245; 
schoolroom temperature and pos- 
ture, 245; habits conducive to cor- 
rect posture, 245, 246; ill-health as 
a cause of bad posture, 246, 247. 

Preparedness and health, 56. 

Privies, minimum requirements, 28; 
menace to health, 125-29; repro- 
duction at school of insanitary con- 
ditions of farm, 129-32; require- 
ments for sanitary privy, 132-34. 

Rapeer, L. W., 4. 

Rats, war on rats, 172-81 ; numerous 
and destructive, 172, 173; cost of 
keeping a rat, 173, 174; a menace 
to health, 174; informing schools, 
175; means of rat riddance, 175, 
176 ; teaching children to catch and 
kill rats and mice, 176-78. 

Royer, Dr. B. Franklin, 70, 100. 

Rules of health, 8, 106, 107. 

Schallenberger, Margaret E. 152. 

School officials, neglect of problem 
of sewerage and water supply, 136. 

Schoolhouse, minimum requirements, 
24, 25; cleanliness, 194, 195. 

Seats, 241. 

Slaton, Superintendent, 80. 

Sleep, hours needed by children, 107. 

Small, Dr. W. S., 6. 

Springs, menace to health, 125. 

Stove, defects of common stove, 190; 
the jacketed stove, 190, 191. 

Surveys, four Indiana counties, 16- 
19; White County, Illinois, 19, 20; 
Porter County, Indiana, 20-22; 
Dresslar's in nineteen States, 22, 
23; survey by teacher, 61-64. 

Symptoms, suspicious, and necessity 
for exclusion, 68; teacher's re- 
sponsibility, 69; warranting exclu- 
sion, 70-72. 



Taft, ex-President, I. 

Teacher, success and worthy aims, 1 ; 
opportunity and duty, 36, 37; dis- 
covery of defects, 61; health sur- 
vey by teacher, 61-63; knowledge 
of contagious diseases of childhood, 
72-76; visiting homes of children, 
78, 79; support of school officials, 
79; to think out details of parent- 
teacher association, 84; reference 
books, 120-22; neglect of water- 
supply and sewerage, 136; respon- 
sibility, 136; what teacher may do 
in regard to water-supply and 
sewerage, 137-40; neglect of play 
by rural teacher, 201, 202; posture, 
teacher's problem, 232; the teacher 
and schoolroom seats, 243, 244; 
teacher's problems in relation to 
colds, 249; examination of teeth 
by teacher, 258, 259; community 
leader in food conservation, 268- 
72; how one teacher introduced 
hot lunches, 285, 286; opportunity 
for inculcation of health habits, 
287,288; measurement of teach- 
er's work in hygiene, 306-16. 

Teeth, care of, 255-64; relation to 
health of child, 255-57; to scholar- 
ship, 257, 258; teeth of country 
children, 258; examination by 
teacher, 258; importance of first 
set of teeth, 259; importance of 
six-year molars, 259, 260; tooth- 
brush drills, 48, 260-64. 

Temperature, how body maintains 
constant temperature, 185, 186; 
optimum temperature, 187, 188; 
temperature and posture, 245. 

Terman, Dr. L. M., 258, 266. 

Textbooks, for children, 117. 118. 

Thorndike, E. L., 9, 46, 47. 

Towels, common, 144. 

Typhoid, decline in Boston, 7. 

Ventilating. See Heating. 

War, physical defects of country and 
city people as shown by first draft, 
31,32. 

Water, drinking, minimum require- 



INDEX 



321 



ments, 27; for washing hands, 28; 
water-supply and sewerage, 124- 
47; supply in country inferior to 
that in cities, 124; school water- 
supply, 130-32; requirements for 
sanitary supply, 134-36; getting 
cooperation of pupils to make 
drinking-water more sanitary, 141- 
44; getting cooperation of parents. 



school officials, and community, 

144. 

Wells, menace to health, 125-29. 
Whooping-cough, mortality, #6, 87. 



Window-boards, how to make, 194. 
Woods, Dr. T. D., 11. 29-31, 71, 106, 
107, 262. 

Young, Ella Flagg, 80, 81. 









TSSL 



University of Toronto 
Library 



DO NOT 



REMOVE 

THE 

CARD 

FROM 

THIS 

POCKET 



Acme Library Card Pocket 

Under Pat. "Ref. Index File" 
Made by LIBRARY BUREAU 




