






IT 

irr 

13 

Ed 

:-D 



ir^ 
i-D 

i^- 

\r* 



HE ALT 
of the 
TEACHER 





THE HEALTH 
OF THE TEACHER 



C 



THE HEALTH 
OF THE TEACHER 



BY 

WILLIAM ESTABROOK CHANCELLOR 

Author of "Our Schools," etc. 





CHICAGO 

FORBES & COMPANY 
1919 



COPYRIGHT, 1919. BY 
FORBES AND COMPANY 



the students whom I have 
had for many summers in 
courses in hygiene for teachers, 
at various colleges y I dedicate 
this book in the hope that it may 
help some other teachers also to 
get well and to stay so. 



PREFACE 

THE purpose of this book is to guide teachers in the 
care of their own health while teaching. The need for 
it arises from several sources. First, the occupation has 
very high rates both of deaths and of diseases. Second, 
teachers read too many school physiologies, which have in 
view the public needs of children and youth and which 
do not teach the whole truth for adults. Third, such 
books as have appeared for adult teachers have not been 
written by men with medical training and experience 
but by teachers of hygiene who have considered the sub- 
ject pedagogically rather than medically. Fourth, every 
book so far issued associates public sanitation with per- 
sonal hygiene, thereby adding to the sense of responsi- 
bility felt by the already burdened teacher. The present 
discussion is meant to be essentially different in its mo- 
tives and purposes. 

The aims of personal hygiene are these, viz : 

1. To increase strength, health and efficiency for daily 
work. 

2. To thwart and, if possible, overcome tendencies to 
diseases both self -originated and infectious. 

3. To quicken and develop joy in being alive. 

4. To postpone death. 

In dealing with this subject, the case method followed 
herein has many advantages, of which the greatest is its 
reality, its truthfulness. By means of the final chapters, 
the index and the table of contents the advantage of the 
topical treatment is recovered. The ills of teachers are 

vii 



viii PREFACE 

not characteristically the common ills of humanity in the 
same relative proportions but mostly peculiar to the oc- 
cupation. So true is this that any physician with a con- 
siderable practice among teachers assumes when seeing 
a new patient in his office for the first time that probably 
the trouble is one of a small definite list. From some ills, 
teachers almost never suffer. 

This book is the outgrowth of early studies in physi- 
ology and hygiene and medical training followed by thirty 
years of educational experience. For its material, 
whether theoretical, clinical or consultative, it must speak 
for itself. The text is based upon systematic lecture 
courses given for many consecutive summers in the Col- 
lege of Wooster, Denison University, and the Cleveland 
School of Education. I sincerely hope that it will help 
its readers to get well and to keep well through more 
intelligent resistance to the physically destructive influ- 
ences of next to the most severe of all learned occupa- 
tions. Medicine alone has more trials, though not a 
higher death rate. 

The inner purpose of the book is to help teachers 
maintain health despite the necessity to accommodate 
themselves often to seriously unhealthy surroundings and 
regimen. It is, however, well for us all to remember 
that there are other occupations with yet greater diffi- 
culties to be met and overcome such as medicine, nursing, 
home management on a farm and some lines of factory, 
store and office employment. Let us, therefore, try to 
endure with healthy cheerfulness what for the present 
perhaps we cannot change. 

And let us not imagine that from the point of view of 
hygiene or of any other art or science, even the best of 
modern schoolhouses or the latest of modern school 
courses and programs is a finality. Mankind is at the 
beginning, not the end of the discovery of truth. But 



PREFACE ix 

even such truth as we now have is but narrowly dis- 
tributed and but poorly utilized. In these pages, I have 
endeavored to present in untechnical, non-medical lan- 
guage as far as possible some of the most approved prin- 
ciples and practices of physicians and of hygienists for 
the maintenance and protection of the personal health of 
teachers. 

In a period when from the world war we have all 
learned much regarding health and sanitation and when 
with the timely urgency of the United States Bureau of 
Education we are trying to improve the hygiene condi- 
tions for our children and youth, it is expedient for all 
of us who are teachers to bring our own health and 
strength up to high efficiency. 

W. E. C. 

S 



CONTENTS 

PART I 
PRINCIPLES OF DIAGNOSIS AND CASES 

CHAPTER PAGE 

PREFACE vii 

I THE MODERN VIEW OF HEALTH 15 

II THE INSTINCT TO BE WELL 26 

III DIFFERENTIAL DIAGNOSIS OF HEALTH CONDITIONS . 33 

a. Race and Stock, b. Temperament c. Age. 
d. Sex. 

IV SPINAL CURVATURE. CASE i 55 

V IMPERFECT DIGESTION. CASE 2 61 

VI NERVOUS WRECKAGE. CASE 3 70 

VII IGNORANCE OF LUNG AND OTHER HYGIENE. CASES 

4 AND 5 75 

VIII FATAL OVERWORK. CASE 6 80 

IX ERRORS OF PARENTS IN CHILDHOOD CARE. CASE 7 . 85 

X DEFICIENT PHYSIQUE FOR TEACHING. CASE 8 . . 92 

XI INSUFFICIENCY OF MIND FOR TEACHING. CASE 9 . 97 

XII BURNING THE CANDLE TOO FAST. CASE 10 . . . 104 

XIII EXCESSIVE ANXIETY ABOUT HEALTH. CASE n . .109 

XIV SURGICAL RELIEF. CASE 12 113 

XV SCHOOL EPIDEMICS. CASE 13 115 

XVI IGNORANCE OF SEX ABERRATIONS IN OTHERS. CASES 

14 AND 15 120 

XVII Too SUCCESSFUL AND OBLIGING. CASE 16 . . . 124 

XVIII A VICTIM OF TOO MUCH " SANITATION." CASE 17 .. 128 

XIX OVEREATING. CASES 18 TO 21 131 



CONTENTS 

PART II 
THE RATIONALE OF HEALTH CONTROL 

CHAPTER PAGE 

XX SLEEP 137 

XXI DIET 146 

XXII DRINK 164 

XXIII EXERCISE '170 

XXIV BATHING i 184 

XXV CLOTHING AND FOOTWEAR 188 

XXVI PERIODICITIES, INCLUDING MENSTRUATION . . 200 

XXVII CARE OF THE TEETH 217 

XXVIII CARE OF THE EYES . . .222 

XXIX CARE OF THE EARS 227 

XXX CARE OF THE VOICE AND THROAT 231 

XXXI CARE OF THE SKIN 236 

XXXII CARE OF THE HAIR 244 

XXXIII CARE OF THE FEET 248 

XXXIV RELAXATION AND AMUSEMENT 256 

XXXV WHEN TO RESORT TO MEDICINE AND SURGERY . . 262 

XXXVI CHOICE OF HABITAT AND HOME 267 

XXXVII WHAT is WORRY? 284 

XXXVIII WINNING OLD AGE: SUMMARY 296 

INDEX 303 






PART I 
PRINCIPLES OF DIAGNOSIS AND CASES 



" I seek to distinguish the patterns of life according to 
the natures of different men." 

The Laws. bk. VII. Plato 



THE HEALTH 
OF THE TEACHER 

CHAPTER I 
THE MODERN VIEW OF HEALTH 

QUDDENLY, as with a start, the teachers of America 
O have awakened to the truth that one very important 
subject concerning themselves has been virtually ignored 
in toto, that of personal anatomy, physiology and hy- 
giene. And even the teachers who have become awake 
suspect that what little they know is very, very little com- 
pared with the available scientific knowledge of the medi- 
cal profession. 

Every man, woman and child desires life and yet 
more life; desires overflowing life, for life is joy, 
power, self-realization, accomplishment and success, and 
brings approval from others. We delight in others who 
are well; and in being well ourselves. Life is surplus 
energy, more than we need for mere existence; life is 
radiant. 

The health of the human cell is the key to life. 

A living cell is the most marvellous of all things in 
Nature. It converts what it chooses from its environ- 
ment into itself and thereby registers life. It chooses 
and rejects. It grows ; it produces one or more cells like 
itself ; it lives its time, whatever that may be, and dies. 
It thinks ; it wills ; doubtless, it feels ; it certainly works. 
Cells build all animate creatures including man. 

15 



16 THE HEALTH OF THE TEACHER 

Scientists tell us that a normal human body contains 
three trillion cells, 3,000,000,000,000; that the spinal 
cord alone contains four billion cells and the brain seven 
billion cells, making a total of eleven billion cells, 1 1 ,- 
000,000,000, in the main structure of the nervous sys- 
tem. Such numbers are fabulous and incomprehensible. 
This means that the direct nervous control requires three 
per cent of all the cells of the body. This, however, does 
not account for the vast number of nerve cells in the 
muscular and other tissues, doing a thousand things for 
us from noticing temperature to winking the eyelid. 

Whether in a difficult world one seeks to recover health 
or simply to maintain it, the first requirement of all is 
to realize that every cell in one's body has an appetite 
for material to renew and replace itself according to its 
nature but that one may help or defeat these various cells 
in their natural and necessary interest in their own activ- 
ities by anything and everything that one eats, breathes, 
drinks, does and endures. This is the secret of health- 
consciousness. 

THE BLOOD STREAM 

There flows in every man a river of life and of death, 
the blood-stream, at once a current of foods and a sewer 
of worn-out, decaying cells and tissues. In so far as 
it is a stream of nutriment, we have very large and active 
control of it; three successive hygienic meals, with pure 
water and enough fresh air, make a deal of difference 
as contrasted with a bad diet for even one day. But in 
so far as the blood current is full of the waste of the body, 
the case is very different. It may take weeks and even 
months to clean the sewer; it may prove impossible to 
do so, in which case death is inevitable from the defile- 
ment of the circulatory system. Important as food is, 
relatively to other health concerns it is emphasized in 



THE MODERN VIEW OF HEALTH 17 

common talk and in current periodicals and in books for 
general use, a thousand times too much. 

Every cell in every human body has an instinct for 
health, for normal functioning. 

This is the key also to the modern system of therapy 
in the cure of wounds, to keep the tissue clean and to 
let it heal itself. The now famous Carrel-Dakin treat- 
ment as shown in the cure of hundreds of thousands of 
wounded men in the world-war is predicated upon this 
proposition that Nature means every man to get well 
and that every cell knows its own normal and proper 
social relations with other cells. The hostile germs that 
infect wounds, cause pus and develop gangrene must 
be cleaned away. 

That man or woman who once looks out upon the 
world of his or her own body as through a new window 
full of light finds health and power by understanding 
the true meaning of the cell. 

The various cells of the human body have various 
sizes and weights, natures and histories, and normal 
terms of life. We know now that it is not true that the 
entire human body is renewed once in seven years or 
once in seven months or once in seven weeks. Different 
organs, different systems, different parts of them, dif- 
ferent persons of the various races, stocks, breeds, ages, 
sexes, living in different climates, doing different work, 
eating different foods, some happy, some sad, some 
well, some ill, have their different rates for cell-growth, 
life, and decay; all, however, within limits. 

Once built, the enamel of the teeth, a cell-product but 
not in any sense cellular, never is replaced. Its wear is 
irretrievable save by mechanical dentistry. A silver 
plate may be fastened upon a solid osseous structure to 
stay there a score of years. 

At the other extreme, true muscle breaks down and is 



i8 THE HEALTH OF THE TEACHER 

rebuilt very rapidly under exercise conditions, in young 
manhood within forty-eight hours, and in childhood even 
more rapidly. No other tissue, however, completes the 
cycle of its cell life so rapidly as does the grey matter of 
the nervous system. This is one reason why the shatter- 
ing of the nerves is so serious; it means that their in- 
stinct for self-renewal has been defeated. Any healthy, 
normal brain is eager to cure itself; the liver or the 
deltoid muscle of the upper arm is by no means so eager 
or so efficient. 

Anyone may test the rates of renewal in one's own body. 
For example, how many days are required to grow an 
entirely new finger nail ? In most persons, the nails grow 
faster upon the right hand than upon the left, in the 
ratio of 5 to 4; and also in most persons, the nails of 
the forefingers grow most rapidly. For a boy of ten 
years, three weeks is an average period for a complete 
new nail upon the right forefinger ; for a man of twenty- 
five four weeks ; for a woman of the same years, the re- 
newal is one-tenth faster. 

In some persons, superficial cuts upon the skin heal 
fast. A clean cut an inch long and completely through 
the entire structure into the flesh may be healed and 
firm in ten days. A slow healing would be twice as long. 



THE NORM 

The original germ plasm has an architectural life set- 
ting out to realize an ideal, its norm, according to a par- 
ticular grouping of ancestral traits, that is, according 
to the elements in the original materials. This life made 
of whatever environment it had as helpful and agree- 
able a home as it could. It was intelligent enough to place 
its cells and to organize its bones here, nerves there, hair, 
skin, teeth, muscles, internal organs and all else accord- 



THE MODERN VIEW OF HEALTH 19 

ing to the proper fashion of each. In most cases, with 
better materials and less interfered with, the life archi- 
tect would have made a much better job of it. 

A very positive principle of personal hygiene follows 
from this truth : " Hands off," let Nature have her 
way, " physiological rest." 

There is a famous diagnostician and consultant in 
Cleveland, Ohio, of whom it has been truthfully said a 
thousand times, " Yes, we called him in, and he went 
over the patient, said ' H'm/ and took up his bag to de- 
part. Then we asked, ' What shall we do next ? ' and 
he replied, ' Do! Why, nothing. Can't you see that the 
patient is already getting well? Let him alone. Let 
him sleep. Good day ! ' ' 

What is the biological significance of this "physiologi- 
cal rest," but this that non-interference, together with 
cleanliness, the right food and plenty of quiet gives Nature 
the opportunity to do what she understands far, far bet- 
ter than any human mind possibly can ? 

Every woman should remember what Adelina Patti 
said was the secret of her fresh voice in advanced age, 
" At least once a month, I go to bed and stay there quiet 
and happy for thirty-six hours." 

Holy Mother Earth ! Sacred Mother Nature ! When 
agitated American womanhood and hustling, feverish 
American manhood get the meaning of admiring love for 
Earth that feeds us and for Nature that breeds us, our 
womanhood and manhood both will prosper exceedingly. 
Though knowing nothing of modern science, the best of 
the ancient Greeks fathomed the secret of the proper 
relation of man to Nature, which is trust, confidence, 
dependence. The glorious perfection of the human form 
as incomparably displayed in Greek art was matched by 
the finest of their men athletes and probably by their 
women also. 



20 THE HEALTH OF THE TEACHER 

We should get ourselves into right relations with the 
bread and meat, with the sun and air and the night, with 
force and electricity and time, with the fields and the 
cattle, by all of which we live. Any other view of the 
universe is that of unintelligent barbarians. Before we 
get through reforming American education, we shall dis- 
cover that much of our practice is unnatural and barbar- 
ous, in keeping with Huns and other mechanical out- 
laws from true civilization rather than with the wise. 

As the cells build up the organs from their own inner 
principles, so the body as a whole has its own inner prin- 
ciples, its habits and traits and ideals. Only second in 
importance to the truth that every cell has a life of its 
own and may and should be depended upon to live aright 
is the truth that the body of itself understands hoiv to 
do a wonderful -variety of actions wisely. It has taken 
man until these last few years to discover the true func- 
tions of the ductless glands in co-ordinating the whole 
man. Explaining these ductless glands belongs rather to 
physiology and to anatomy than to hygiene, and reference 
may be made here only to the operations of three of 
these sets of glands for the illumination of personal 
health-control. 

The human body has for its important systems these, 
viz. 

1. Nervous. 

2. Alimentary. 

3. Circulatory, blood and lymph. 

4. Muscular. 

5. Osseous. 

6. Respiratory. 

THE DUCTLESS GLANDS 

Until the past few years, it was more or less of a 
mystery how these various systems were so wonderfully 



THE MODERN VIEW OF HEALTH 21 

co-ordinated and co-operative. The discoveries made 
have been quite as illuminating as the discovery of the 
circulation of the blood with the exact functioning of 
the heart, not so much as a pump but rather as a gov- 
ernor or regulator. The discoveries of interest here con- 
cern the thyroid glands, the suprarenal glands, and the 
pituitary glands. 

Growth depends upon the proper activity of the thy- 
roid gland. The child with too small a thyroid or one too 
sluggish fails to grow as if from what we used to call 
" sheer inanition." What is needed is that from time to 
time, there shall be released from this ductless gland its 
secretion " thyroidin " to stir up the cells to increase their 
number. But the child with too large or active thyroid 
glands is restless and over-excited, growing tall but thin. 

Even in adult life, one needs vital but not too active 
thyroid glands. Tight collars, over-dressed throats, too 
much use of the voice, cramping of the throat, severe cold 
as from wind upon an exposed chest and throat each 
of these conditions is bad for the thyroid and therefore 
for all growth and for all renewal of tissue. It is not 
necessary for the health that thyroidin shall always be 
present in the bloodstream, but it is necessary that its 
presence there shall be recurrent and periodic. And prop- 
erly developed and functioning thyroid glands attend to 
the needs of health and growth in just this way. 

Exopthalmic goitre, of which the external symptoms 
are a swollen throat and bulging eyes, is the direct and 
now familiar result of errant thyroid glands. Dwarf- 
ism, cretonism, gigantism and several other abnormalities 
of size and of functioning are now known to be due to 
these same glands. 

The suprarenal glands determine the physical proc- 
esses and stages of our emotions. Anger, fear, hate, elo- 
quence, ecstasy, hysteria, and other such high-wrought 



20 THE HEALTH OF THE TEACHER 

We should get ourselves into right relations with the 
bread and meat, with the sun and air and the night, with 
force and electricity and time, with the fields and the 
cattle, by all of which we live. Any other view of the 
universe is that of unintelligent barbarians. Before we 
get through reforming American education, we shall dis- 
cover that much of our practice is unnatural and barbar- 
ous, in keeping with Huns and other mechanical out- 
laws from true civilization rather than with the wise. 

As the cells build up the organs from their own inner 
principles, so the body as a whole has its own inner prin- 
ciples, its habits and traits and ideals. Only second in 
importance to the truth that every cell has a life of its 
own and may and should be depended upon to live aright 
is the truth that the body of itself understands hoiv to 
do a wonderful variety of actions wisely. It has taken 
man until these last few years to discover the true func- 
tions of the ductless glands in co-ordinating the whole 
man. Explaining these ductless glands belongs rather to 
physiology and to anatomy than to hygiene, and reference 
may be made here only to the operations of three of 
these sets of glands for the illumination of personal 
health-control. 

The human body has for its important systems these, 
viz. 

1. Nervous. 

2. Alimentary. 

3. Circulatory, blood and lymph. 

4. Muscular. 

5. Osseous. 

6. Respiratory. 

THE DUCTLESS GLANDS 

Until the past few years, it was more or less of a 
mystery how these various systems were so wonderfully 



THE MODERN VIEW OF HEALTH 21 

co-ordinated and co-operative. The discoveries made 
have been quite as illuminating as the discovery of the 
circulation of the blood with the exact functioning of 
the heart, not so much as a pump but rather as a gov- 
ernor or regulator. The discoveries of interest here con- 
cern the thyroid glands, the suprarenal glands, and the 
pituitary glands. 

Growth depends upon the proper activity of the thy- 
roid gland. The child with too small a thyroid or one too 
sluggish fails to grow as if from what we used to call 
" sheer inanition." What is needed is that from time to 
time, there shall be released from this ductless gland its 
secretion " thyroidin " to stir up the cells to increase their 
number. But the child with too large or active thyroid 
glands is restless and over-excited, growing tall but thin. 

Even in adult life, one needs vital but not too active 
thyroid glands. Tight collars, over-dressed throats, too 
much use of the voice, cramping of the throat, severe cold 
as from wind upon an exposed chest and throat each 
of these conditions is bad for the thyroid and therefore 
for all growth and for all renewal of tissue. It is not 
necessary for the health that thyroidin shall always be 
present in the bloodstream, but it is necessary that its 
presence there shall be recurrent and periodic. And prop- 
erly developed and functioning thyroid glands attend to 
the needs of health and growth in just this way. 

Exopthalmic goitre, of which the external symptoms 
are a swollen throat and bulging eyes, is the direct and 
now familiar result of errant thyroid glands. Dwarf- 
ism, cretonism, gigantism and several other abnormalities 
of size and of functioning are now known to be due to 
these same glands. 

The suprarenal glands determine the physical proc- 
esses and stages of our emotions. Anger, fear, hate, elo- 
quence, ecstasy, hysteria, and other such high-wrought 



22 THE HEALTH OF THE TEACHER 

states are due to the activities of these glands. From the 
physical point of view, in the main, a cold, quiet, reticent 
nature is only the evidence of inactive suprarenal glands. 
A glowing enthusiasm followed by equal depression is the 
evidence of perhaps too active release of adrenalin into 
the bloodstream. 

A teacher who meets seven classes a day and teaches 
each " for all he is worth " wears out accordingly. Clini- 
cal tests show that a normal adult requires twenty min- 
utes to steam up from the effects of a release of adrenalin 
and more than an hour to cool down which means to 
get the adrenalin back out of the blood. He should 
have at least an hour of comparative quiet before being 
excited again. 

Every modern physician knows that four agitations in 
an entire day of twenty- four hours, perhaps two between 
breakfast and the noon meal, one in the afternoon and 
one in the evening, constitute the maximum that a 
healthy man can stand and remain healthy day in and 
day out for years. " Too much excitement " means too 
many doses of adrenalin. It is what causes the exhausted 
school teacher to drag through her Fridays. It sends 
many an actress to the sanitarium. It has persuaded 
many a lawyer to " take to drink," which stupefies. 

Sluggish or inert adrenal glands cause and are caused 
by a monotonous life. A person so afflicted drags a 
dreary round of days. How to rectify a bad adrenal 
condition does not come deep within the ranges of hy- 
giene but a few suggestions may prove profitable. 

For excessive activity of the suprarenal glands, one 
should substitute cereal protein for meat protein; avoid 
animated crowds and groups ; read light or humorous 
literature; take easy outdoor exercise (no automobile 
vibrations) ; drink milk and water, and nothing else and 
cut down on sugar. 



THE MODERN VIEW OF HEALTH 23 

For inactivity, the opposite courses are indicated. 
Meats seem to stimulate all the ductless glands. Con- 
versation, public speech, social relations, serious reading, 
hard exercise such as horseback riding, tea, coffee, choc- 
olate, the alcoholic stimulants in their first impression and 
sugar, one and all stir up these glands, especially the 
suprarenals. 

Contrary to the general supposition, these glands just 
above the kidneys have no more to do with them than 
with any other organs. Nature found the location con- 
venient. Adrenalin affects powerfully first the heart and 
solar plexus nerves and then the sympathetic nervous 
system. Blushing, mental confusion, sex-excitement, 
noisiness, boasting, and many other such manifestations 
are caused by, accompany, or result from activities of the 
suprarenal glands. 



FREE ADVICE TO TEACHERS 

It so happens that -teachers display many symptoms of 
unusual and unfavorable adrenalin disturbance. In con- 
sequence, those who ignorantly give advice to individual 
teachers imperil them still further. So much general and 
free advice comes to teachers, and teachers are so serious 
and so desirous to improve that many experiments upon 
them follow, and, of course, with but few exceptions they 
result unfavorably. 

Among the more common health hints to teachers are 
these, viz. 

1. More exercise. 

2. Social evenings. 

3. Church or other activities. 

4. Travel. 

Now all of these may perhaps be good for a person 
with a " torpid liver," which diagnosis sometimes is a 



24 THE HEALTH OF THE TEACHER 

mistake for a deficiency in the suprarenal glands ; but any 
one of them may prove highly injurious to a person al- 
ready suffering from excessive frequency and amount of 
released adrenalin. 

As for the pituitary gland, at the base of the brain, we 
know that a deficiency of its secretion causes one to de- 
velop thin, blue flesh and fat and to be nervously weak, 
while an excess of its secretion causes thick, red flesh 
and fat and high passions. 



THE NEW BIOCHEMISTRY 

The modern view, therefore, of the hygiene of the in- 
dividual proceeds from increased knowledge of and ^re- 
spect for the particular cells charged with characteristic 
functions and from new knowledge relating to the co- 
ordination and working together of all cells, tissues, or- 
gans, systems through the activities of the ductless glands. 
It is not that the old knowledge of the chemical actions 
of digestion, assimilation, metabolism, of the processes 
of cells, neurons, ganglions, efferent and afferent nerves, 
or of the pulse and of respiration and much of the other 
physiology of a quarter of a century ago has been 
superseded because it is false. It is that the old knowl- 
edge has been supplemented by much new knowledge 
and that truths concerning health have taken on new 
values. 

Starting from two sources, the sperm and the ovum, 
one being %oo in. or less in diameter, the other Vist in., the 
human being finally attains at forty or fifty years of 
age a height of (say) 68 inches, a chest circumference of 
36 inches, and a weight of 155 pounds, all under law 
and reason. The soul or mind (considered as " intellect " 
or ''spirit") appears to be a visitor in a living body 
perfectly able to take care of itself, a body that ap- 



THE MODERN VIEW OF HEALTH 25 

pears rather to be victimized than to be helped by the 
visitor, who may foolishly try to keep it awake too many 
hours, or to feed it too much, or to subject it to cold 
or to excitement, or even to stimulate its appetites and 
instincts unnaturally by drugs or by external pressures or 
by deliberate imaginings. All this incredibly vast growth 
has been organized by the relatively few, so few cells in 
the parent-germ plasm. The principle holds as to the 
most serious situations, such as the attacks of the typhoid 
germ upon Peyer's Patches in the bowel ; recovery from 
the tearings of childbirth; and wounds to lungs or 
stomach from bullets and shells in battle. In some, heal- 
ing is rapid ; in others, it is slow. Every organ and sys- 
tem has its own rate but within time limits. A wound 
that does not get well within a maximum time-limit is 
unlikely to get well at all. This is true of many a hernia 
and also of many a white tubercular patch in the lungs 
or in the hips. 

Surgeons have succeeded in grafting bone into place; 
they transfer muscles and skin freely; they build new 
jaws. Some limits to these miracles will be found; but 
there seems as yet to be no limit within the possibilities 
of this great principle of Nature working in man as in 
every other animal that for practical purposes every^ cell 
has a mind of its own. 

Here flows the blood stream. The liver appropriates 
what it needs and makes liver tissue; it does not make 
brain tissue or when sane, fat or connective tissue. The 
boy of nineteen gradually stops increasing the spinal col- 
umn cartilage and bone because his spinal cord like a 
good architect silently determines, *' This is enough." 

Such is the philosophy of the new biochemistry that is 
reconciling chemistry and biology and giving to man a 
new interpretation of himself. 



CHAPTER II 
THE INSTINCT TO BE WELL 

QOMESTHESIA is the feeling that one has regarding 
^ the state of one's body, and is the proper expression 
of the instinct of self-preservation, of the " urge to be 
well." In some persons, the feeling is absent until posi- 
tive pain sets in. Mostly the persons who are markedly 
deficient in somesthesia are of the ideomotor and sinewy 
motor temperaments, the persons who are driven by ex- 
ternal ideas or by internal desires of a mainly psychical 
character. Some of those who are deficient in somesthe- 
sia, however, are of the reflective sedentary type and mas- 
tered by internal ideas, central images or reasonings. 
By some, it is contended that the absence of somesthesia 
is the direct cause of the invalidism that seems to char- 
acterize so many persons of these temperaments, and that 
the activity of their somesthesia is what makes the mus- 
cular motor and the vital corpulent enviable pictures of 
health. 

It has even been gravely proposed that in every bed- 
room of the land beneath the embroidered motto, " He 
giveth His beloved sleep," should be posted a big card 
with these words in red ink, " How is your somesthesia 
today?" 

It is, however, possible to have an undue interest in 
one's bodily feelings and because of such interest to be 
made ill from worry regarding one's health. Just as 
there are many who pay no regard whatever to their states 
of health and to their present tendencies up or down in 

26 



THE INSTINCT TO BE WELL 27 

the health scale, there are a few who make themselves 
sick with too much inquiry and thinking about their 
health. We should pursue here the safe middle course. 

One person never thinks of his health until he has a 
headache or a pain in his foot or some other disturbance. 
Another person never forgets his feelings at all and is 
always recounting to others how well he feels or just 
what little aches and pains he has. 



HEALTH AND PAIN 

When one pauses, gets quiet and begins to think of the 
health matter, very often there is an unnecessary pres- 
sure of feeling perhaps about a tooth or a collar or a 
toe or a little pain, real enough but little, at some point 
or other inside or outside of the body ; a strained ten- 
don, a sore muscle, a tired out eye, may be its location. 
When health and energy run steady and strong, we en- 
dure, even ignore many pains. When we are excited or 
hard driven, we suppress all pains and aches unless they 
become so extraordinary as to defeat the will to proceed 
in action. Kinesthesia (delight in action) is the direct 
destroyer of somesthesia (delight to be alive). Most 
teachers are too kinesthesiac. 

Many and many a time, teachers get up from bed with 
headaches or other pains, which grow worse rather than 
better until they get to school; then and there, they are 
forgotten ; and the sufferers feel that they have triumphed 
over their weak bodies. Sometimes, the pains or aches 
become worse after school ; but sometimes they have been 
effectively killed off. The explanation lies in the effect 
of adrenalin from the suprarenal glands upon the blood, 
the heart, the general tissues and especially upon the brain 
and other nerves. The former sufferer feels triumphant ; 
his mind and will (some persons think that they can 



28 THE HEALTH OF THE TEACHER 

discern one from the other!) have conquered his body. 

In ninety-nine cases out of a hundred, when this kines- 
thesia defeats the somesthesia, the body consciousness, 
in this fashion, the man pays back double and more that 
very evening and night. 'The safe rule after defeating, 
perhaps necessarily (?), one's physical conscience for 
several hours is at the first opportunity to take a bath, 
drink a lot of water, eat an orange, and go to bed, even 
in daytime. 

Conquering pain by getting up an excitement is all of 
a piece with the miserable habit that so many semi- 
invalids have of ignoring the calls of nature to empty the 
bladder or the bowels, from which several positive dis- 
eases and various ruptures may and often do result. 

All forms of autointoxication, all manner of self-orig- 
inated diseases are due to quieting the voice of one's 
body-life. 

The troubles due to over-interest in one's somesthesia 
are of a different order, laziness, epicurism, fussiness, 
indifference to duty, blindness to ideals, " gross " mate- 
rialism, sometimes particular vices, excessive selfishness. 
One may give too serious consideration to one's somes- 
thesia or instinct to get well and to stay so ; for example, 
fear to go outdoors in a rain-storm because one is " nerv- 
ously too tired " and may take cold, may keep one from 
sufficiently aerating one's blood to permit good metabo- 
lism and sound night's sleep. 



THE BODY THERMOSTAT 

Fortunately this instinct can be rationalized, for there 
are ways and instruments for determining whether or 
not one is really ill or becoming ill. Among these is the 
clinical thermometer, which is easy to operate and fairly 
reliable. For most persons, at most ages, with the correc- 



THE INSTINCT TO BE WELL 29 

tions indicated below, this table for observing the body 
temperature serves quite well, viz. 

96 Get to bed and send for a physician. 

Take some stimulant immediately. 
97 Get to bed and send for a physician. 
98 Take some warm food and drink, or go for a 

brisk walk. 

98.5 Probably you are well. 
99 Live quietly ; drink fresh water. 
100 Get to bed and send for a physician. 
101 Get to bed and send for a physician. Drink cold 

water. 
Put a cold compress on forehead or neck. 

The body is a chemical laboratory whose output is 
life-and-death, force-and-pain, strength-and-weakness. 
It has come to pass that 98.5 registers the correct point 
for these chemical processes. Whether this particular 
point, 98.^5 has been fixed by some such fact as that the 
animal which was to develop into man emerged from the 
primeval sea to live upon the land when the waters of 
that sea averaged 98.5 (as the waters of the oceans 
now average 52) is but a brilliant conjecture of spec- 
ulative science. But whether true or false, it so happens 
that most men are well at a body temperature taken under 
the tongue showing from 98.5 to 98.8 Fahrenheit. 

This particular temperature is not absolutely accurate 
nor universally so. Indeed the temperature may be taken 
at various other points of the body, as under the arm- 
pits, where it runs 98, when the tongue temperature is 
98.5. The average shown for healthy persons number- 
ing tens of thousands of both sexes and all ages shows in 
truth a slightly higher temperature, 98.7. But there 
are several explanations for this slight variation from 



30 THE HEALTH OF THE TEACHER 

the popularly known figure. One is that children's tem- 
peratures, which are included, run slightly higher than 
those of adults. 99 does not indicate a fever in a small 
boy who runs all day. In all races, as indeed of all warm- 
blooded creatures, the temperatures of the young are 
higher than those of the old. Another explanation is that 
the scientific average was taken by physicians ; and their 
temperature records always run a little high because per- 
sons whom they are examining are generally somewhat 
excited and are breathing hard, which raises the body 
heat. 

The temperatures of women as well as those of children 
run a little higher than those of men of the same ages 
and races. 

The temperatures of persons of some races run higher 
than those of other races. The key to this is not meat- 
eating, as some incorrectly suppose, nor is it wholly in 
the extent of outdoor life or of physical exercise. It is 
not even in the metabolism, for those who get plenty 
of nourishment from their food do not run high tempera- 
tures. The key is not in the quality of the skin, especially 
as to the activity of the perspiration glands. It is not a 
matter of the body coefficient ; slender persons do not have 
low coefficients and fat persons high coefficients. Nor 
is it in the balance of all these factors together. The 
temperature is not a direct function of the heart action, 
though there is a tendency to run a high temperature when 
the pulse quickens. Consequently, a high temperature 
and a low pulse constitute a positive dual symptom that 
may help a competent physician to diagnose such a case. 

The Chinese run low temperatures as do also the Hin- 
doos. The Italians run high temperatures; the Scotch 
likewise. 

The key to the normal and slight variations of tem- 
perature as between races is the development of the liver. 



THE INSTINCT TO BE WELL 31 

The other elements noted above count perhaps a little, 
but only a little. When the liver is properly developed 
in its three functions and operating well, the body heat 
is kept at about 98.5 a little lower in the morning 
and a little higher in the afternoon, especially shortly 
after the noon meal when there has been a considerable 
intake of sugar. In a well man, the variation may run 
daily from 98.2 at 4 A. M. to 98.9 at 2 p. M. ; and in a 
well woman from 98.3 to 99 ; each aged thirty to forty 
years old and being of English stock; outdoor tempera- 
ture (say) 50 to 80, though this makes but little dif- 
ference except at the extremes of weather, below zero 
and above blood heat. 

It is sometimes said that death is certain when the tem- 
perature falls below 96 or climbs above 108. Modern 
medicine knows better. There was a case of a typhoid 
patient who every day for four weeks ran a temperature 
above 105 and every day for ten days ran a temperature 
from 107 to 108.5 but who got well and lived long 
afterwards. 

In order to " freeze to death," it is not necessary for 
the body to get below 32, the freezing point upon the 
Fahrenheit scale ; the human body cannot perform its nor- 
mal processes when it drops in health from the external 
cold to 67, which is its " freezing-point " ; and it does not 
get well when its temperature runs for several days below 
94 ; indeed, below 96 for any considerable period of 
time is usually fatal. 

Human life is a flame as of gases that burn into 
" mind " at a temperature within one or two degrees of 
98.5; varying much from which, the flame dies out. 
The flame of life is a marvel. 

Life is indeed a marvel in many aspects. Perhaps none 
of these aspects is more astonishing at first thought than 
that 98 to 99 happens to be the temperature in health 



32 THE HEALTH OF THE TEACHER 

of nearly all animals ! and of most birds ! At 98, warm- 
blooded living things all united confront the earth. 

Anyone does well to keep a clinical thermometer on 
hand and to use it whenever worried about one's health. 
It is certainly comforting to know that a headache with 
the temperature of 98.5 means that in all probability one 
is not " coming down " with the influenza or with any 
other disease. Such a headache has a local cause, eye- 
strain perhaps, or ear-strain, or a spinal fatigue. 

Another good instrument for helping one to intellec- 
tualize and to rationalize the instinct of self-preservation 
is the blood pressure machine, which, however, happens 
to be expensive (costing $20 to $30, according to make) 
and to be somewhat technical in operation. Many public 
schools, however, are now equipped with this instrument ; 
and any teacher can learn to operate it. Preferably, 
however, the blood pressure should be taken by a physi- 
cian or a nurse or by some physiopsychologist familiar 
with the meaning of the figures recorded. 

There was a case of a healthy young woman of Scotch 
ancestry in America who worried herself into distress 
painful to observe upon her face because someone had 
taken her blood pressure and found it to be " only 100." 
Her pulse, however, was 76, when standing, and her 
body coefficient 2.05 ; the whole state of her health was, 
therefore, apparently satisfactory. A little knowledge 
imparted to others may make them unnecessarily un- 
happy. Health is wholeness, and a single item of this 
statistical kind may be negligible. 



CHAPTER III 

DIFFERENTIAL DIAGNOSIS OF HEALTH 
CONDITIONS 

THAT all diagnosis is differential everyone has heard 
and many appreciate. That we are now able to 
diagnose the several fevers that a century ago were all 
supposed to be one and the same is a triumph of modern 
medicine. Now we can tell apart typhoid and typhus; 
smallpox and varioloid; we have identified membranous 
croup as diphtheria of the pharynx and upper throat ; we 
no longer confound paranoia with melancholia, the very 
idea seeming absurd. Much of the old darkness respect- 
ing diseases has passed away; the fog of ignorance has 
both lifted and thinned. 

But now when we speak of differential diagnosis, we 
mean something far deeper than this discrimination be- 
tween diseases and ailments. We mean discrimination 
between man and woman, between man and child; be- 
tween man and man ; woman and woman ; child and child. 
We know now that no two typhoid cases are just alike ; 
that no two persons have just the same stomach troubles ; 
that every human being is a new congeries of forces, a 
new series of problems. We know even that the man of 
sixty years may present vitally different physiological 
problems from those of the man of twenty-five, and yet 
be substantially well. He may have quite a different 
temperament and considerably different tissues; as, of 
course, he may have and doubtless should have a very 
different view of life. 

" Know thyself ! " said Socrates, quoting several almost 

33 



34 THE HEALTH 'OF THE TEACHER 

as wise men as himself who came before him. But no 
one can know himself unless to a degree he knows others 
also. Vice versa also contains truth; no one can know 
others until to a considerable extent he knows himself. 

In this knowledge of oneself and of others, what facts 
are most worth knowing, especially facts in respect to 
knowledge of the conduct of the physical life? The an- 
swer in full would be an encyclopedia of many sciences 
from anthropology to philology. But some points may 
well be dwelt upon. 

The political world would perhaps like to have us forget 
our races, stocks and breeds and to allow ourselves only 
the classifications of I. Americans, 2. Allies, 3. Neutrals, 
and 4. " Huns." It may even look upon ethnology and 
race-anthropology as decisive on the hypothesis that what 
the world needs is unity rather than concord, integration 
rather than harmony, a proposition distinctly debatable. 
But human somatology has so much to reveal of impor- 
tance to personal hygiene (as indeed to many other inter- 
ests) that a few of its truths are insistent for utterance. 
The calipers and the tape measures, the weight scales, 
the blood pressure instruments and the sphygmograph 
prove by the millions of cases that heredity according to 
race, stock and breed runs true to form through thou- 
sands of years. 

RACE NATURES 

There are fourteen easily distinguishable breeds of 
humanity with notably different traits upon the British 
Isles, nine in France, eight in Germany, three in Sweden, 
five in Italy, twenty-two in Russia; and we Americans 
derive from one or another of these unmistakably. Some 
of these breeds have dominant traits against all others 
and prove this in the cases of hundreds of thousands of 
persons of greatly mixed ancestry in America. Politi- 



DIFFERENTIAL DIAGNOSIS 35 

cally this may be interesting but inconsequential ; hygien- 
ically, it is of very great importance. 

To describe many cases would exceed the permissible 
limits here ; but a few are necessary. 

In power to mark descendants, no race is stronger than 
the dark Pict, whose habitat for a thousand years or more 
was the east coast and southern border of Scotland. He 
is never vital corpulent or anemic sedentary; but gener- 
ally muscular or sinewy motor, and occasionally ; ideo- 
motor. He needs outdoor life. He has diseases accord- 
ing to his indoor confinement, to the climate of his Amer- 
ican habitat, and to the fitness of his occupation to his 
physique. Though but one of the eight grandparents has 
been dark Pict, the child will almost always show the 
traits of this dominant breed. 

Next in power to mark descendants is the Norman 
French strain to be found conspicuously in Normandy 
itself and well distributed in England. Many Americans 
show this strain. A man of the Norman French breed 
has many characteristics like the dark Pict ; but the distin- 
guishing traits are positive. The hands are very unlike ; 
those of the Norman French are always long, slender, 
tapering, and every finger likewise. They are the hands 
of artists and skillful artisans, no other breed has any 
such hands. But the Norman French prospers indoors 
when he does muscular work in fresh air. He has dis- 
eases accordingly. Yet many dark Picts (in popular 
terms the " brunette Scotch ") teach school while the 
Norman French are too impatient and too desirous of 
perfection to be happy as school teachers. The dark 
Pict seldom has nervous prostration ; the Norman French 
often displays it. 

The Angle is much like the Norman French and sel- 
dom teaches school, being too impulsive and too resistant 
to reasoning. 



36 THE HEALTH OF THE TEACHER 

But the Saxon, blond, stout, good-natured, loves to 
teach school. He is usually either vital corpulent or mus- 
cular motor. 

His traits, however, are distinctly recessive. Exoga- 
mously married, he fails to mark his descendants strongly 
with his own traits. The calipers and the tape measure 
and the scales cannot tell the difference between the pure 
Saxon in Germany, in England or in America, of whom 
there are many millions, for the Saxons are domestic; 
Saxon men and women are natural affinities for persons 
of other stocks ; and they have large families. Dark Pict, 
Norman French and Angle all delight in consorts of other 
breeds ; and especially from the Saxons, for the sufficient 
reason that the Saxon is complacent and healthy and 
cheerful, a good husband and a better wife. Hence 
arose the Anglo-Saxon, who even in England is not nu- 
merous but who has served to symbolize not a race but 
a nation and the several peoples and countries dominated 
by this nation, in the etymological signification of that 
term, " common birth." 

The somatologist finds in America evidence that not 
less than forty different European races, stocks and 
breeds are represented in our population. In teaching, 
one finds conspicuously, east and west, these, viz. 

1. Saxons. 

2. Scotch-Irish (that is, "dark Pict-Saxons "). 

3. Pure blond Kelts (from Ireland). 

4. Pure dark Kelts (from Ireland and Wales). 

5. Anglo-Saxons. 

6. Dark Picts. 

7. Russian Jews. 

8. Danes, Frisians, Jutes from England (somatolog- 

ically the same). 

9. The Black British (from middle England). 



DIFFERENTIAL DIAGNOSIS 37 

Few teachers, very few, come from any other stocks 
with these exceptions, viz. 

1. Drawing and the arts attract into the profession a 
few Norman French. 

2. Music draws in a few blond (Highland) Scotch. 

3. The Alpine Swiss take to rural district school teach- 
ing here. 

4. The Parisian French (a distinct breed) are drawn 
into certain specialties, such as trade, play-acting, music. 

The external physical characteristics and the unmis- 
takable psychical characteristics of all the races, stocks 
and breeds from which Americans derive can all be dis- 
cerned by observers who will take the trouble to notice 
them systematically. These characteristics include health 
traits, tendencies to certain diseases, longevity, which 
differs greatly in the different stocks, and all such matters. 

There are not less than two million persons of Italian 
blood in the American population ; and there are five dis- 
tinct ethnological varieties of Italians. At present, how- 
ever, but few Italians ever teach school. Such as do 
teach become music and art specialists and kindergart- 
ners with here and there a professor in a college in some 
such lines as his own language and literature, art or archi- 
tecture. For this, there are several causes. One is that 
an Italian who can sing prefers rather to sing than to 
teach singing. Another is that our Americans of Italian 
ancestry do not yet finish high school and then go to 
college; it has never been characteristic of Italians to 
undergo long, regular, socialized training. 

But for the practical purposes of teacher hygiene, one 
does not need to inquire in all these lines and to observe 
their individual characteristics. Some races, stocks and 
breeds furnish no teachers or so few as to be negligible, 
such as the Magyars, the north coast Scotch, our own In- 



38 THE HEALTH OR THE TEACHER 

dians, some peasant stocks of France and the British 
Isles, most Russian stocks, and Turks. 

THE CEPHALIC INDEX 

It is, however, profitable to observe the physical and 
psychical signs of the stocks, races and breeds whose rep- 
resentatives do teach in considerable numbers; and it is 
especially profitable to observe these signs in oneself. 
Of all those mentioned above, with the exception of the 
Alpine Swiss, the cephalic indexes indicate mesocephaly 
or dolichocephaly. The Alpine Swiss are highly brachy- 
cephalic. The cephalic index is found by dividing the 
distance between the ears taken one inch above the meatus 
(ear-opening) by distance of the longest axis, front -to 
rear, wherever found (forehead to back head). The 
commonly accepted figures are these, viz. 

(Men) Dark Pict 80; Angle 78; Saxon 80; Dane 
77 ; Dark Kelt 80 ; Russian Jew 77 ; Norman French 
77. Women of all races measure 2 points higher in 
their cephalic indexes than the men ; -that is, Dark Pict 
82 ; etc. Their heads are a little shorter and a little 
wider than those of men of the same blood. 

There are eight other measures of some significance; 
viz. i. over forehead ; 2. over middle head ; 3. over back 
head ; 4. under back head ; 5. head circumference ; 6. neck 
circumference; 7. distance between eyes from pupil to 
pupil. 

In measuring 14,000 persons, the extremes were a col- 
lege student male of twenty years, cephalic index 63, 
length of head 8^4 inches ; woman college graduate index 
66, head length 8^2 inches, over middle head I i l /2 inches ; 
boy of fourteen, cephalic index 118; college student, fe- 
male, nineteen years old, index 88. A typical well- 
developed male Anglo-Saxon has these measurements, 
viz. 



DIFFERENTIAL DIAGNOSIS 39 

1. cephalic index 78 

2. head width 5% inches. 

3. head length 7^2 inches. 

4. over forehead 14 inches. 

5. over middlehead 14^ inches. 

6. over backhead 14 inches. 

7. under backhead 8^4 inches. 

8. neck circumference . ., 14 inches. 

9. head circumference ...... 22^4 inches. 

To pursue this subject into details extended to cover 
all the races that contribute many individuals to teaching 
would defeat the purpose in presenting this topic here, 
which is rather to illustrate the point that individuals in 
their health conditions differ according to race, than to 
enlarge upon ethnology. 

It is a psychical sign of the dark Pict to be prudent and 
yet deeply emotional. To persons of other stocks, these 
qualities are irreconcilable, and yet every true Pict has 
them. 

The Angle is impulsive and headstrong. The race dis- 
plays an excessive tendency to breed mental defectives 
especially of the feeble-minded grade. 

The Saxon is sentimental, domestic, complacent. 

The Jute and the Dane love freedom and equality and 
delight in fighting for their individual rights. They have 
no desire to rule others, and they prefer death to sub- 
mission to others. 

The Irish dark Kelt is the personification of personal 
loyalty. He is emotional and imprudent. 

Such are a few of the typical mental signs of the races 
that develop teachers. 

Their illnesses as teachers because of their resistances 
to their environment follow. One race resists one way, 
another otherwise. 



40 THE HEALTH OF THE TEACHER 

The common teacher-ailments are these, viz. 

1. Nervous troubles, including headaches. 

2. Alimentary canal derangements. 

3. Eye-strains. 

4. Malnutrition. 

5. Broken-down teeth. 

The Angle as a teacher suffers from them all; the 
Saxon suffers but little from any of them; the Anglo- 
Saxon escapes usually the alimentary canal derangements 
and malnutrition. Though resistant, the dark Pict occa- 
sionally suffers from all of them, least often from alimen- 
tary canal derangements. The Norman French is espe- 
cially victimized by nervous troubles. The Irish Kelt 
suffers from broken-down teeth. The Jute and Dane get 
off lightly. 

With so many composite physiques to consider, it is 
helpful to remember that the dominant strain decade by 
decade overcomes the recessive in the individual. The 
Anglo-Saxon, as he grows old, loses the Saxon psychical 
and other traits, and becomes more and more Anglish 
(pure English). His blond hair turns dark. 

THE VARIOUS TEMPERAMENTS 

Next in dealing with hygiene, it is profitable to note the 
various temperaments, which cannot be understood with- 
out knowledge of races. Among men, there are five obvi- 
ously different temperaments, viz. 

Ideo-motor. 

Sinewy-motor. 

Muscular-motor. 

Vital corpulent. 

Anemic sedentary. 

Among women, the maternal instinct greatly modifies 
all these temperaments. Nine women in ten have this 
instinct actively at work. It is, however, strong only in 



DIFFERENTIAL DIAGNOSIS 41 

the muscular-motor and the vital corpulent. Among 
women, few survive to teach at fifty years of age unless 
they started to teach with the sinewy-motor, the muscu- 
lar motor, or the vital corpulent temperament. The ideo- 
motor break down early; the vital corpulent dislike the 
work ; and the anemic sedentary fail for want of physical 
strength to perform it. 

Consequently, as soon as one knows that a woman 
teacher is " no longer young," it is safe to guess that she 
has either the sinewy motor or the muscular motor tem- 
perament. The maternal instinct makes the " womanly 
woman " and keeps her comparatively young. The 
" girlish woman " and the " premature old maid," greatly 
different though they are, nevertheless are alike in lacking 
an active maternal instinct. No greater mistake, how- 
ever, can be made than to imagine that an unmarried 
woman teacher necessarily has lacked the maternal in- 
stinct. 

The presence of an active maternal instinct greatly 
modifies the health. Motherly women who have never 
borne children do more hard work with less fatigue than 
" girlish women " and " old maids/' Their illnesses dif- 
fer accordingly. Motherly women do not often suffer 
from " woman's troubles." The woman teacher who is 
actually a mother, wife or widow, may have any of 
woman's troubles. Virgins, of course, have their charac- 
teristic troubles, which are often very serious in such as 
are non-maternal. 

THE IDEO- MOTOR 

With this highly important element of the maternal 
instinct properly allowed for, one may safely generalize 
to the extent of anticipating relatively large numbers of 
persons of the ideo-motor among such as fall victims to 
to the nervous troubles. By definition, the ideo-motor are 



42 THE HEALTH OF THE TEACHER 

responsive to external stimuli without reflection, which 
permits self -protection. These persons make fine kinder- 
gartners, being notably alert to the needs and ways of 
children; in all higher grades, the very nature of their 
work endangers their nervous stability. Being careless 
of their own welfare, their teeth are allowed to fall away 
in condition; they eat and drink what they should not, 
being misled by the suggestions and actions of others. 
Being overstimulated, and really unable to endure the 
anxious conditions of upper grade and high school work, 
their whole physique suffers in ways shown by malnutri- 
tion, by stomach and bowel disorders, and otherwise. 

It is an hypothesis worth considering that the ideo- 
motor temperament is the direct result of over-active 
suprarenal glands and of excessive loads of adrenalin in 
the blood and tissues. The ideo-motor, of course, never 
have strong muscles, though some few of -them are able 
to retain and to develop active ones. The highly explo- 
sive character of the muscular tissue of the ideo-motor 
may be due in part to adrenalin and in part to the small 
bulk of muscle and the consequently relatively large 
amount of nervous matter in them. 

Some diagnosticians think that the over-activity of the 
adrenalin glands exhausts the pituitary glands and pre- 
vents the making of fat. 

Since ideo-motivity as a constitutional trait is so dan- 
gerous to health, persons of this temperament often ask 
whether temperament is unescapable fate. Are the ideo- 
motor congenitally doomed to their troubles? 

In the first place, ideo-motivity, under a measure of 
rational objectives as life-aims, is not by any means un- 
desirable. Such persons make the finest of aviators and 
are extraordinarily successful as actors and as actresses. 
Brought under rational control, ideo-motivity changes to 
a mental condition that usually develops the sinewy motor 



DIFFERENTIAL DIAGNOSIS 43 

temperament. Of course, however, the ideo-motor adult 
never changes so far as to become vital corpulent or mus- 
cular motor. 

No physician ever anticipates the development of these 
impatient, often overworking and undereating and char- 
acteristically undersleeping persons into quiet caretakers 
of their own health or that of any one else. As mothers, 
they are not quiet watchers of their babies and children. 
They cannot develop the rational control that is almost 
essential to hygienic living under present-day, civilized 
conditions. 

The ideo-motor often develop that entire diathesis dis- 
cussed later in Chapter V, Case 2, where the alimentary 
canal is frail throughout. 



THE SINEWY-MOTOR 

The sinewy motor are found in all grades and kinds of 
schools. Theirs is the work-all-day temperament; they 
work with comparative ease but not rapidly except after 
long training. They place thoroughness before rapidity, 
and are generally prudent. They are not, however, nota- 
bly well-nourished, nor are they full of the joy of living. 
They are characteristically serious and sometimes dour; 
most of the Scotch have this temperament. 

The most common of all their ailments is rheumatism, 
both muscular and sciatic, though seldom inflammatory, to 
use the terms of a quarter of a century ago. The sinewy- 
motor persons tend to the uric acid diathesis. Theirs are 
the diseases of liver, kidneys and bladder. What dis- 
turbances they may have of the alimentary canal are 
usually temporary rather than chronic and are due to 
specific causes. 

They are not characteristically careful of their health ; 
and because they have a poor development of somesthesia, 



44 THE HEALTH OF THE TEACHER 

they get tired out or overeat or suffer some other trouble 
from want of sufficient care and of active bodily warn- 
ings. 

That interesting combination, the Anglo-Saxon, 
often is sinewy motor. He easily drifts into neurotic 
conditions, not unlike those of the ideo-motor invalid. 
Teaching in easy circumstances such as a college profes- 
sorship, the sinewy motor man or woman in a few in- 
stances develops a physique with many of the character- 
istics of the muscular motor. But in general in these 
persons, the sense of duty is so strong that they remain, 
though strong, nevertheless thin and anxious. 

THE MUSCULAR-MOTOR 

The muscular motor enjoy teaching. They seem to get 
along well even against the hardships of grammar grade 
and first year high school classes, when adults are trying 
to defeat the barbarian instincts and traditions of the pre- 
pubertal and earliest pubertal epochs in the young who are 
no longer children yet are not quite youth. Even normal 
children from nine to fifteen years of age are much like 
morons, habit-minded, self-willed yet without rationality, 
pragmatic. The only temperament fully able to combat 
these is the muscular motor. 

This temperament is at once strong and joyous. It 
represents a balance of all the powers. When persons of 
this temperament are ill, their troubles are usually not 
self-derived but the result of infections and contagions. 
Occasionally, a heart gets out of order or a kidney breaks 
down. They have both muscular and inflammatory rheu- 
matism. They have bowel troubles from overeating, or 
from eating the wrong food. But the muscular motor 
have a distinctly competent somesthesia and seldom get 
all out of kilter at any time before they are fifty years 



DIFFERENTIAL DIAGNOSIS 45 

old. They show age, however, earlier than do the sinewy 
motor; nor are they equally long lived. 

Most American teachers who are muscular motor de- 
rive in large part from Saxon, Dane, Jute, or Frisian 
ancestry. Some Irish Kelts are of this temperament, 
which is almost as numerously represented among Amer- 
icans as the sinewy motor. 

THE VITAL CORPULENT 

Very few teachers are of the vital corpulent tempera- 
ment, large, healthy, vigorous but not muscularly strong. 
Notwithstanding a high somesthesia, they easily become ill 
and often suffer from nervous affections. They are not 
long-lived. The only positions that they hold for years 
happily are administrative, for they are admirably adapted 
to a variety of duties. The dreary round of the same 
duties daily for years on years is not for them. 

THE ANEMIC SEDENTARY 

The anemic sedentary are not found in teaching except 
here and there in an institution of the higher learning. 
They can endure great and long intellectual effort but 
have no power to control others. They may be scientists 
and scholars. Often they live long. Of course, they are 
incurable semi-invalids requiring much care from per- 
sonal physicians and giving much thought themselves to 
their health, such as it is. They undereat, undersleep, are 
constipated, are full of dull pains, have poor teeth and 
take but little exercise, methodically and dully at that. 
But often -the anemic sedentary have remarkable minds. 
Their very temperament is probably the result of inferior 
ductless gland development. It is characteristic of them 
to wake up to work about nine o'clock in the evening. 
Often they do not get to bed until after midnight. 



4 6 THE HEALTH OF THE TEACHER 

Once in a while a young man or woman of this temper- 
ament becomes a rural or village teacher after college or 
normal school graduation. Under twenty-five years of 
age, it is possible to reform this temperament consider- 
ably by dietetics and by bowel-regulation. More food 
and often more exercise do harm rather than good to 
persons of this temperament. They have low pulses, 
poor respiration and usually low blood pressure. Their 
eyesight and hearing are usually poor. Nevertheless, half 
the philosophers, poets, historians, essayists, scientists, 
novelists, and jurists of the world come of this tempera- 
ment, the unhappy people pale with thought who write 
the record of every generation for posterity and judge 
mankind as the final arbiters of praise and blame. For- 
tunately, from the other temperaments come enough other 
persons to perform the same functions and thereby to 
relieve and to lighten the gloom and to give posterity a 
fair opportunity to get the rest of the truth. 



THE MATERNAL TEMPERAMENT 

The correction of all these temperaments by the ma- 
ternal instinct manifesting itself in women teachers 
brings about significant hygienic differences. The chief 
physical characteristics are increased activity of the lym- 
phatic glands, stronger pulse, more appetite for food, 
better sleep, and heightened somesthesia. The psychical 
characteristics are sympathy and joy. In consequence, 
under this stream of benignant influences, the ideo-motor 
and the sinewy women become healthier. Unfortunately 
for teaching, the same influences lead some of the mus- 
cular motor and of the vital corpulent out of the profes- 
sion of teaching to become wives and mothers and nurses 
and to render different social service from training the 
young in school. 



DIFFERENTIAL DIAGNOSIS 47 

From this same source, we have the courtship problem 
of the young woman teacher, which is often so serious in 
school management. Though romantic love and the ma- 
ternal instinct are by no means the same thing, they have 
a high coefficient of correlation in manifestation. Ac- 
cording to general temperament, the young woman in 
love and engaged to marry a man who frequents her 
company has certain physical disturbances, while one 
whose lover is absent has psychical disturbances. Often, 
in either case, she becomes thin, loses appetite, tends to 
headaches and displays marked nervous instability. 
Sometimes, when of the ideo-motor temperament, she 
breaks down in health entirely and requires constant 
medical care. It is almost useless to urge hygienic 
courses of action, for the instinct overcomes reason. 

The excitement known as courtship tends to late hours, 
sleeplessness, anger, fear, tears, laughter, all of which 
register themselves upon the health. Women frequently 
lose appetite for their meals and apply to their physicians 
for tonics to overcome the consequent depression and 
weakness. 

The truth is that Nature is now making one of her 
examinations. The sinewy motor type, who characteris- 
tically display less maternal and romantic qualities than 
the muscular motor often must choose between courtship 
and proceeding as teachers. The ideo-motor are often 
very romantic but seldom also maternal. Courtship often 
leads them at once to drop out of teaching even long prior 
to actual marriage. A love-affair draws the vital cor- 
pulent woman out of teaching immediately. As for the 
anemic sedentary, any love-affair comes to them as a sur- 
prise; takes them unawares, unprepared and unfit; and 
produces irregular, idiosyncratic results. 

Though men have no paternal instinct that corresponds 
with the maternal instinct in women, in some instances, 



48 THE HEALTH OF THE TEACHER 

they are quite as seriously affected by courtship as are 
women of the same type of temperament. (What some 
generous observers style the " paternal instinct " in man is 
a composition of habits taught them by their mothers and 
of the pity that the noble strong feel for the beautiful 
weak.) 

INDIVIDUALS AT VARIOUS AGES 

Another set of facts worth observing by any one who 
desires to become a rational hygienist concerns age. 
The young think of all persons older than themselves as 
equally old, but in the processes of life one discovers that 
age is relative. The ninety-year old man looks upon the 
fifty-year old man as youthful and inexperienced; but 
when there is any centenarian nearby, the younger man 
looks up to him as having won a still greater triumph and 
hopes to come to an equal achievement. The sixty-year 
old man considers .the man of thirty as quite inexperienced 
and wonders when he displays good judgment. And the 
man of thirty-five sees the man of twenty as scarcely upon 
the threshold of the palace of life. With women, the dis- 
tinctions are even sharper. 

Again, as one goes through life, one finds that he moves 
with his own generation. To oneself, one is always grow- 
ing, always young, and, until strength breaks, always 
capable of improvement. 

A physician received a call from a patient of ninety- 
two years, who said that he never felt better, that he was 
studying diligently every day, but that he was much 
troubled on his daily walk of two miles from inability to 
keep his wind. This man had completed the manuscript 
of an original book on popular religion for the age. Six 
days later, this patient died of dropsy. To avoid arterio- 
sclerosis, the old gentleman had made errors of diet that 
led to the trouble ; that is, at ninety-two years of age, he 



DIFFERENTIAL DIAGNOSIS 49 

was still ready to experiment upon himself to improve his 
health. 

The general feeling that the world belongs to one's own 
age-equals leads to neglect of the truth that physically we 
are on the down grade at forty years. Here, however, 
temperament, race, environment and sex make very great 
differences. The blond Swede from the back country is 
physiologically as young at thirty years of age as the 
swart Italian of Naples at eighteen years of age. 

Among women the first menstruation and the last de- 
limit the period of fertility ; usually, the number of years 
of fertility is about thirty-two. The climax of fecundity 
comes in the second quarter of this period. When physi- 
cal puberty begins at thirteen years of age, the time of 
largest sex-vitality is from twenty-one years of age to 
thirty years. This happens to be the time of life when 
most women who teach do most of their teaching. More 
women are teachers at twenty-two years of age than at 
any other age. Relatively few women teach after thirty 
years of age and relatively few before twenty years of age. 
It must always be remembered that the average woman 
teaches only three years in all, from twenty-one to twenty- 
four years of age. City teaching staffs, of course, in- 
clude relatively many women above fifty years of age ; 
but two-thirds of all the schools of America contain just 
one room and more than half the teachers of America 
teach in one-room schoolhouses. Of the 575,000 teachers 
in America, the number of women above fifty years of 
age is a very small fraction. Teachers of thirty years' 
experience or more are rare ; they are not one in twenty 
in any city in America. For the whole country, they 
make about one per cent of all teachers, while the men 
and women under twenty-four years of age make just 
fifty per cent. 

The years make very great changes in health-conditions, 



50 THE HEALTH OF THE TEACHER 

which are interesting to the historical hygienist ; but prac- 
tically one who deals with the personal hygiene of teachers 
should remember that his main business is with teachers 
who are within a few years of twenty-two in age. Even 
the men do not average much older than the women. 

In general, the increasing years after full body-growth 
is completed slow down the pulse, weaken the heart 
action, raise the blood pressure, develop connective tissue 
in kidneys and liver, reduce the time rate throughout the 
body, increase the weight of the bones and reduce their 
breaking-strength, dull all the nerves, especially those of 
the periphery as in the teeth, in the finger tips, and in the 
skin, dull also taste, smell and hearing, develop far sight 
in the eyes and severely tighten the accommodation of 
the iris of the eye, increase the body coefficient until fifty 
years of age and then as automatically reduce it, shorten 
the length of the spinal column and render the spinal cord 
more liable to concussions, lessen the reaction to cold, 
thicken the nails and slow down their growth, making 
them also more brittle, weaken the hair follicles and leave 
the scalp a prey to dandruff and to baldness, lessen the 
perspiration, reduce the respirations both in number and 
depth, and after forty years of age diminish hunger and 
shorten the hours of sleep. 

For all these degenerative changes, there are almost no 
physically advantageous compensations. Perhaps, pain 
is less shocking to the whole system of the aged than of 
the younger, which may be a slight advantage. There are 
less fears, and such as remain are less intense, though the 
fears that do survive become permanent, which may be 
seriously unfortunate. 

Indeed for the compensations of advancing years, one 
must look to the psychical and social life. 

In men, the period of sex-activity runs from puberty at 
fourteen or fifteen years of age to the end of sex-power, 



DIFFERENTIAL DIAGNOSIS 51 

which averages at fifty-six years of age, but may extend 
to seventy years or even older. In a general way, it may 
be said that natural seminal emissions occur most fre- 
quently in the second quarter of this period lasting per- 
haps forty-two years, from twenty-four to thirty-five 
years of age; and in men of the muscular motor and 
vital corpulent temperament occur several times a month, 
less frequently in men of other temperament. They are 
evidence of nothing whatever other than normal sex- 
vitality. Toward the end of the entire period, they occur 
months apart. In all healthy men, they are more fre- 
quent in the months of February, March and April than 
at any other time, and least frequent in or near August 
and December. 

When the profession of teaching becomes well estab- 
lished, many men and women teachers will be husbands, 
wives and parents. It is an invincible fact that married 
men and women living with their consorts live longer 
and have better health and are, therefore, more fit to 
teach than maidens and bachelors, not that all schools 
should have married teachers only but that no schools of 
several teachers should be parentless and that mothers 
and fathers should be preferred for such one-room 
schools as cannot be consolidated into union schools. In 
order to get married persons into the schools as teachers, 
it will be necessary so to readjust both the work of the 
young unmarried men and women and so to develop in 
them rational personal hygiene that they will not as How 
quit teaching at the first opportunity, for one cause that 
young men and young women try teaching only to aban- 
don it after a few years is that there is not at present a 
rational readjustment between the conditions environing 
the teacher himself or herself and the individual. As 
soon as young teachers really learn how to keep them- 
selves healthy and happy in their work, which, how- 



52 THE HEALTH OF THE TEACHER 

ever, in some communities that will not on their part try 
to remedy unfair conditions will be impossible no matter 
how wise they may become, then the numbers of men 
and women who remain in teaching after marriage will 
greatly increase. 

Because of the great differences between young and 
old, those who are old when dealing with the young and 
giving advice to them should remember what youth really 
is, what its requirements are, and what its peculiar diffi- 
culties. Youth is sensitive, has a far more active meta- 
bolism, is unhappy unless learning new things, when with- 
out recreation and amusement becomes melancholy, be- 
lieves in the " short hour, high pressure day," resents 
drudgery, feeds on variety, and nurses dreams. 



THE TWO SEXES 

Another set of considerations that one should have in 
mind in order to get into right relations for a correct per- 
sonal hygiene has to do with sex. The physical differ- 
ences between the sexes begin with the hair of the head 
and do not end until one reaches the very toes of the 
feet. There are hundreds of anatomical differences be- 
tween males and females of the same stocks and breeds 
at the same physiological ages, most of them, however, 
of no hygienic significance. Among such as are of hy- 
gienic significance are these, viz. the women have 
thinner skin, far more developed lymphatics, relatively 
more blood, lighter musculature, shorter legs and arms, 
and lighter bones, longer bodies relative to entire height, 
notably larger lower viscera, slightly smaller lungs, rela- 
tively smaller cerebrum and relatively larger cerebellum, 
much smaller hands and feet, higher arched instep, smaller 
teeth, tongue, pharynx and larynx, smaller circumference 
of neck, not to note in detail the sex-organs proper. 



DIFFERENTIAL DIAGNOSIS 53 

In general, woman is less locomotor than man, less 
active in combustion and more efficient in digestion and 
excretion, weaker, and quicker. 

But these generalizations -are true only within the limits 
of race, age, temperament and to an extent habitat and 
social environment. The dark Pict is comparatively slow 
in action ; the Norman French quick. But a dark Pict 
girl is far quicker than an old Norman Frenchman. 

Much of all this has been reduced to exact statistics, 
which are of no especial value in hygiene. A young 
woman of the Anglo-Saxon kind usually thinks about 150 
thoughts per minute in the morning; or some 135,000 
thoughts per waking day. A man of the same mixed 
breed thinks about 130 thoughts per minute; or 117,000 
thoughts in a waking day of the same length. To be 
more exact, such a woman probably does average a longer 
sleeping night and a shorter working day than the man 
by at least half an hour. On this basis, the difference 
between the two at the same age is some 1 3,000 thoughts a 
day in favor of the woman. This indubitably explains, 
first, why a woman of eighteen years is mentally as old 
as a man of the same race and habitat at twenty years of 
age, and, second, why the w- t oman requires at least half an 
hour more of sleep. 

It is written in The Book of Common Sense of every 
wise woman not to take health advice from any man 
who is not her family physician or otherwise so self- 
alienated and yet desirous of her physical welfare as to 
be able to think of her bodily needs as a woman. For 
this reason, even fathers and brothers and husbands gen- 
erally give perilous advice to women regarding hygiene. 

The mensal periodicity of women, which is measured as 
being forty times as great as that of men, alone is enough 
to produce in them the need of a radically different r.egi- 
men. The physiology of women differs from that of men 



/ 



54 THE HEALTH OF THE TEACHER 

considerably, though, of course, not wholly; we are all 
human, all have nerves and feelings, digestion and many 
things else in common. It is a metaphysical guess that 
" function builds structure " and that " mind expresses 
itself in body." It is demonstrable physical truth that 
tears are readier to woman than to man and that women 
suffer more pain than do men. Their reactions are both 
quicker and more extensive than those of men. They have 
more and quicker recuperative power. It is true especially 
of young women that an apparently bad breakdown does 
not require nearly so long a period of recovery as a similar 
case in men. The necessities of the biological functions 
of child-bearing and child-nursing have made woman 
stronger in nerves, in digestion and otherwise than man, 
popular opinion to the contrary notwithstanding. Strong 
nerves mean great capability of pain. Unfortunately for 
the race, economic man, indifferent to the welfare of pos- 
terity, throws upon many women correspondingly heavier 
toil. 

In more than one American school, some woman 
teacher carries the real responsibility of direction and of 
discipline while some man draws the salary and writes the 
records as principal in name. In sheer muscle and in 
leverage of bones, woman is weaker than man ; otherwise 
not. 



CHAPTER IV 
SPINAL CURVATURE 

CASE I 

GUESS what one may as to the sources of health and 
mind, all effort and resistance, however important 
and indeed essential in our lives, come at last to the spinal 
cord as the reservoir of vital energies. We may try to 
cheer ourselves up by cherishing the notion that " as our 
day, so shall our strength be," but in our hearts we all 
know that we can exhaust needlessly our vital reserves 
and prematurely wear out. Many teachers have come 
to me to ask what the matter is with teaching. They have 
headaches and indigestion and cannot sleep well; they 
have lost what is now styled " pep." Generally, they are 
ashamed to feel the way they do ; they do not know what 
the trouble really is; and they do not like to talk about 
their cases with other teachers or with their friends. 

Perhaps Case I, as I shall describe it, will convey as 
fully as any other that has been under my personal obser- 
vation the truth that we need a very different hygiene 
from that which is common to the schools. Case I is that 
of a lady of middle age who had taught as a specialist the 
subject of physical culture in a city public school system 
for a considerable term of years. She was accustomed to 
give lessons also upon physiology and hygiene to classes, 
and to diagnose individuals regularly as part of her work. 
Intellectually, she was a very superior person. She had 
the esthetic sense also. Her only complaint about her 
health was that she often had pains in her back and in 

55 



56 THE HEALTH OF THE TEACHER 

her head. She was very enthusiastic about exercise and 
walked in the open air afternoons and holidays with for- 
titude and with a sense of well-doing. 

That s'he was nervous and thin and excitable, she knew ; 
but she attributed the condition to heredity and to the 
general circumstances of being a school teacher. She 
believed in exercise as the cure-all. The books said so; 
her superior officers said so ; it was the common opinion 
that to be well one must take plenty of exercise outdoors, 
and if not outdoors, then indoors. 

But when examined to discover the causes of the low 
body coefficient and of the pains and of the general notion 
that school teaching must be hard to do and to bear, 
Case i showed up two conditions, one of which was en- 
tirely unknown to herself. Her body coefficient was but 
1.75- (Body coefficient is weight in pounds divided by 
height in inches, which for women of most physical 
types at 40 years of age should be from 2.10 to 2.70.) 
This teacher of physical culture who practised calisthenics 
with classes for five hours a day, who worked at gym- 
nastics, who took long walks as often as possible, who 
believed in plenty of exercise, had three different spinal 
curvatures. Of course, no one of them was obvious to 
the observer who saw her going about the rooms of the 
schools or upon the streets. Her neck was carried well ; 
and she stood straight, in truth, considerably too straight. 

About thirty-five per cent, of women and twenty per 
cent, of men have at least one spinal curvature, but most 
spinal curvatures are not at the moment serious. Any 
spinal curvature may become serious. The curvature 
that is serious is making trouble in some positive way; 
for example, it may be causing pressures upon intra- 
spinal nerves and thereby affecting the health of internal 
organs ; or it may be harboring the germs of tuberculosis. 
In Case I, the three spinal curvatures were causing re- 



SPINAL CURVATURE 57 

ferred pains, were increasing spinal shocks and were de- 
priving certain internal organs of their normal blood and 
nervous supplies. 

Referred pains are pains placed by the mind at some 
point in the body where they do not belong. This is due 
to the fact that nerves run out from the main trunk into 
branches and, as it were twigs, of little nerves; and a 
wound to a branch may set the twigs of another branch 
qui vive with pain by psychical mistake. By referred 
pains here, I mean that the pains which Case I suffered 
actually occurred in the spinal cord itself, or else at spe- 
cial points in the periphery of her body not suspected by 
the patient rather than where she thought they were. It 
takes a hundred times as much anatomy to understand 
this as is actually presented in the little text books on 
physiology that we have in our schools. By spinal shocks, 
I mean that every time this lady put her foot down, she 
had a slight jar of the entire spinal column due to these 
curvatures. A normal spine is like a spring of three 
bows; hers was like a staff, and a disjointed staff at that. 

By the deprivation of blood supply to a certain organ 
is indicated the result of overpressure upon the nerve 
from the spinal cord that manages that organ. 

What Case I needed was, first of all, to know that her 
spine was out of proper alignment and was making most 
of her troubles and that at her age the situation was 
irremediable; second, to change radically her notions re- 
specting exercise for herself. Instead of walking home 
vigorously, of doing housework on her feet, and then 
after supper, of walking or at least sitting up for hours 
on hours in active conversation, she needed to stroll home 
very quietly on thick, soft rubber heels ; then to lie down 
for an hour or so with her street clothing all off, flat on 
her back upon a springy, soft bed or couch ; and to spend 
her evening in a very easy chair. 



58 THE HEALTH OF THE TEACHER 

In her day's work, Case I needed to favor her back as 
much as she could in giving model lessons in the classes. 
She must know enough not herself to swing dumbbells 
and Indian clubs and other articles that add to the weight 
and shock of her poor, neglected and damaged spinal 
column. She must wear as light clothing as would 
serve, and keep weight off from her shoulders. In pub- 
lic places, she should take off her outer wrap. Otherwise, 
Case i would reach a few years later some one of several 
inevitable troubles, she might be bent over like a hoop, 
as many fine old ladies are; or she might develop very 
serious diseases of the internal organs; or she might go 
insane, or become prematurely senile from increasing 
pain. 

In point of truth, Case I suddenly changed to the plan 
indicated and in seven months showed a gain of fifteen 
pounds and a rosy, smiling face; but she was "doing 
less work " day by day. She will live, however, years 
and years longer, and the total of work to her credit at 
death will be far greater than if she had continued as 
before. 

The second trouble, which Case I knew she had, was a 
technical one for which the remedy sought and prescribed 
was very fashionable until a few years ago. She had 
four bridges in her mouth set on as many roots of teeth ; 
they had cost her $250, and she was not taking pains 
enough to keep them perfectly clean all the time. Plates 
are far better for a mouth so badly wrecked. (See 
Chapter 27.) 



EXCESSIVE FAITH IN EXERCISE 

From this Case, one may well learn that exercise is 
not the key to health ; is not the most important of all 
hygienic prescriptions ; is far from a cure-all. No one 



SPINAL CURVATURE 59 

can see and feel one's own back; the diagnosis of the 
spinal condition must be made by another, and it should 
be made by one who really knows and understands the 
spine. Often, a proper diagnosis involves the taking of 
X-ray photographs by an expert. Physical culture super- 
visors and teachers seldom know anything at all about the 
spine. It is a very common thing for an expert to go 
over a case where the school specialist has pronounced a 
spine first class and to find right there a bad curve ; and 
once in awhile, a case comes along that is pronounced 
bad when in truth the spinal situation is excellent and 
the complaint is due to a different cause. A prominent 
bone along the column at the neck is an anatomical and 
harmless trait of some races. A spine may be straight 
where it should curve; which means that the straight 
spine really curves from the norm, and medically consid- 
ered, constitutes an objectionable curvature. 

Just now with the revived enthusiasm for military life, 
for army drill, for the tent out in the open, we are having 
a furore of interest in exercise for all in complete indif- 
ference to the truth that the men in khaki were a selected 
lot and that even among them were some who because of 
spinal curvatures (or some other deficiencies to be 'dis- 
cussed later) were worse rather than better off from their 
drill with guns. 



INDIVIDUAL DIAGNOSIS 

The true key to hygiene, of course, is that employed by 
the medical profession; otherwise, there would be no 
medical profession. This key to every true profession 
is individual diagnosis. As every human mind is a differ- 
ent mind, as every law case is a different case, as every 
sinner who consults his minister presents special elements 
in his sinfulness, so every person who is not perfectly 



60 THE HEALTH OF THE TEACHER 

i 

well and never has any pain at all is a special case and 
requires individual diagnosis. 

In consequence, the teacher will, first of all, make a 
study of his own case and get from real physicians and 
physiological experts assistance in diagnosing his own 
troubles ; and, second, every person who assumes to be a 
teacher of physiology and hygiene for children and youth 
will begin to think that here at least is a field worth inves- 
tigating evenings and holidays and vacation times lest the 
teacher shall be himself or herself a blind leader of the 
blind. 

It used to be thought a symptom of poor sense to think 
much about one's insides, and the man or woman who 
wished to read medical books was regarded as queer or 
even worse; but in these times of the light of modern 
science, it is the other way about. All wise persons read 
medical books and journals and get from their physicians 
not only prescriptions for specific illnesses but also infor- 
mation along the lines of sanitation and hygiene. 

In order that this chapter may not be left up in the air 
and give the impression of dealing too emphatically with 
a very few matters in a very wide field, allow me to add 
that spinal curvatures are not the sole cause of all troubles, 
nor is individual diagnosis the beginning, middle and end 
of personal hygiene. No one thing is sufficient, not even 
common sense, which often errs egregiously and fatally. 

The purpose of this chapter has been to attack and 
destroy the too general custom of reliance upon exercise 
to secure and to maintain health. Incidentally, I have 
meant to present the very common case of spinal curva- 
ture causing damage to the health of individuals unaware 
of their defect. 



CHAPTER V 
IMPERFECT DIGESTION 

CASE 2 

THE second case to which I desire to direct attention 
is that of a woman who taught the modern lan- 
guages in the same high school for nearly twenty years 
of physical exaltation alternating with wretchedness and 
who then, when her health gave out utterly, changed to 
another occupation to find herself two years later as well 
apparently as possible to one of her age and particular 
diathesis. This showed that the occupation was more 
than half the cause of her near-invalidism. As a teacher, 
she, was, however, more often sick and worse sick than 
necessary under the conditions. 

Miss J. T. is a woman five feet four inches in height, 
light bones, small hands and feet, weight running about 
no pounds, fair-haired with light blue eyes. Her body 
coefficient, therefore, has been generally about 1.72, 
showing that on the average she has been 30 pounds 
under normal weight. By race, she is composed of Dane, 
Saxon, and Norman French in about equal proportions, 
with an obvious trace of Highland Scotch. Her mental 
abilities are distinctly above the average. She reads and 
speaks English, French, German, Spanish; knows Latin; 
plays the piano ; sings, draws and paints ; is an expert 
stenographer, typist and bookkeeper; conducts amateur 
theatricals ; and is an excellent cook and housekeeper. 

Contrary to the opinions of those who know nothing- 
of anatomy, physiology and hygiene opinions, that is, 

61 



62 THE HEALTH OF THE TEACHER 

generally expressed to her as well as about her " behind 
her back " she has a strong, finely balanced nervous 
system. Nevertheless, she is not perfectly well and never 
will be because of the alimentary canal construction and 
tissue. The history of the case is so typical of many 
teachers as to be worth review. 



OVERWORK AND UNDERFEEDING 

At twelve years of age, J. T. developed a slight chorea, 
which lasted four years and ended her regular education 
in public school. This chorea affected her eyes, neck and 
shoulders. Outdoor life in the country, a later educa- 
tion by private teachers, the pubertal development, and 
changes of climate brought her at twenty-eight years of 
age to her first breakdown as a high school teacher. She 
was operated upon at that time for esophoria, both her 
eyes being skillfully button-holed to loosen and lengthen 
the internal ocular muscles of accommodation. Since 
then, she has had much less frequent headache. But for 
this operation, she could not have resumed her public 
work. 

Yet the highly interesting and luminously significant 
result of this operation as a medical remedy was to un- 
cover another and deeper stage of breakdown. 'She was 
now able to work with less daily headache and with fewer 
absences from school; but she developed occasional hys- 
teria. These attacks came on Friday afternoons or Sat- 
urday mornings. Notwithstanding that the school au- 
thorities knew the main facts about her condition, she 
was teaching seven periods a day of 40 minutes each. 

She had a most capricious appetite, eating too little 
generally, and that little being too light food. An egg 
at breakfast gave her nausea. Usually for this meal, she 
ate a slice of toast and butter, weak, hot coffee and a 



IMPERFECT DIGESTION 63 

saucer of cooked fruit such as peaches or baked apple. 
Her average intake was 1600 to 1800 calories per day, 
being but 60 per cent of an adequate supply. She ate 
only such meats as the white of chicken, the lean of lamb 
and dried beef, some days no meat at all. 

She had other peculiarities characteristic of the defec- 
tive, stringy, anemic alimentary canal type. She had ton- 
silitis every few weeks in bad weather in any season. 
The tonsils were too light to develop a heavy quinsy. 
Her skin was supersensitive, and would not tolerate 
woolen underwear or heavy cotton. She preferred silk 
but usually had to get along with linen or cotton of light- 
est texture. The surface of her body was always chilly. 
On the least provocation, she ran temperatures up to 101 
degrees or down to 97.5 degrees. Though living on the 
seacoast and being a good swimmer, she seldom went in 
bathing. She could not get a satisfactory reaction as 
after-effect. 

At thirty-seven years of age, came the second break- 
down, which seemed to be a positive depressive melan- 
cholia, but was not. At this time, she was literally penni- 
less, a condition due to a salary very low relatively to the 
high cost of living in the city, and to her assisting a 
needy kinswoman constantly. Cursed by the disposition 
to worry, which is a pathological trait of this type, she 
had good sense enough to take some part in social amuse- 
ments, and to read light novels and current magazines ; 
but not good sense enough to go to bed early as a rule. 
The breakdown induced a social reaction that led sympa- 
thizing friends and her physician to counsel her to acqui- 
esce in the request by the school authorities for her resig- 
nation. 

It is necessary to the understanding of this type to 
realize exactly the work that this teacher was asked to do ' 
daily for five days a week and forty weeks in the year. 



64 THE HEALTH OF THE TEACHER 

1. Talk the modern languages in recitation with from 
twenty to forty-five pupils in the classroom at a time ; 
seven periods. 

2. Attend to school discipline. 

3. Keep school records. 

4. Correct papers for all these classes in the evening 
by artificial light. 

5. Prepare amateur theatricals and other club pro- 
grams. 

6. Attend faculty meetings of from one to three hours' 
duration every two weeks. 

7. Plan for college entrance examinations of pupils. 
The voice work alone required of such a teacher would 

tear down a muscular man. 

Change of occupation six months of freedom from 
clock and calendar brought mental quiet, when this 
woman entered upon a line of work of considerably dif- 
ferent character. 

&s a matter of personal hygiene, it is useless to ad- 
vise such a woman to reduce her hours of instruction. 
No teacher can control this. To attempt to control it 
is insubordination, which, of course, means loss of posi- 
tion. 

That this woman unconsciously realized her physical 
unfitness for normal living is shown by many of her 
own actions and by her conduct as a whole. She has 
refused to marry. She has retreated to the sidelines and 
to the rear in all teacher associations and activities. She 
has never done church work. She has never read serious 
books other than school texts and reference works. She 
has taken no part in the movement for woman suffrage. 

Summarized, her traits are these, viz. 

1. Excessive physical activity followed by prolonged, 
irritable fatigue. 

2. Timidity among strangers and the unfriendly. 



IMPERFECT DIGESTION 65 

3. Excessive self -concern with unwillingness to probe 
deeply into its causes. 

4. Great dependence upon her medical advisers. 

5. Undereating of proteins both cereal and animal and 
of fats and overeating of sugars, starches and fruit 
acids. 

6. Insomnia ; sleeping but an hour or two at a 
stretch, with lying abed till ten or twelve o'clock fre- 
quently upon holidays. 

7. Irregular attacks of hysteria. 

8. Worry with irremediable inability to rationalize her 
life. 

THE ALIMENTARY CANAL 

The frail alimentary canal means, of course, not only 
poor appetite and poor digestion, but also poor and irreg- 
ular excretions with too frequent micturition. Whether 
the spinal cord or the alimentary canal is the older sys- 
tem in the human body, it is certain that a failure of the 
one is quite as serious as the failure of the other. A 
human body can rack along with poor kidneys, with poor 
lungs, with a poor liver with the frailest of muscles, 
with no teeth, with a skin in a fever of eczema, even 
with an hypertrophied heart; but we live according to 
the grey matter of the nervous system and to the effi- 
ciency of the alimentary canal. In truth, the whole hu- 
man body appears to be organized around and upon the 
alimentary canal by the nervous system. 

What, then, is one to do who has a poor interior for 
one's digestive tract from pharynx to colon? Especially 
what is the woman teacher to do? 

The first thing of all to do, the absolutely necessary, 
the one indispensable essential is to form the habit of 
going to bed early, which means going to bed before 
one is very tired and in the assurance that one will have 



66 THE HEALTH OF THE TEACHER 

ample time to rest before getting up, rest, be it said, 
not continuous sleep, for it is assumed that a person of 
this type knows that sleep will not come to stay all 
night. Make a short day of it. Good sleepers can stand 
long days and short nights. A woman teacher of this 
type should be in bed at least eleven hours before the time 
she is due in school the next day. When school opens at 
8:30 A. M., the time to go to bed is 9:30 p. M. or earlier. 

More sleep is essential. The human body has many 
periodicities, some of which are not under rational con- 
trol; not the least of these is the periodicity known as 
waking and sleeping. These should alternate as follows, 
viz. 

Within every twenty-four hours. I. A long sleep; 2. 
A long waking; 3. A short sleep; 4. A short waking. 

The ideal clock program for one of this frail alimentary 
canal type is as follows, viz. 

10 P. M. to 6 A. M., sleep. 

6 A. M. to 4 P. M., waking. 

4 P. M. to 5 P. M., sleep. 

5 P. M. to 10 P. M., waking. / 
All women who teach need to sleep every night before 

a teaching day not less than nine hours as an irreducible 
minimum. 

One who can sleep one hour in the afternoon can con- 
sider it safe to cut down the sleep at night two hours ; 
one who can sleep two hours in the afternoon can cut 
down the sleep at night four hours. Right here the rule 
ceases. Three hours from 4 p. M. to 7 P. M. and then 
three from 2 A. M. to 5 A. M. are not enough. We Ameri- 
cans are the only people on earth who take all our sleep 
in one period. 

Dietetics. The second requirement for a person of 
this type is to discover and adhere to a proper and an 
adequate diet. There is no perfect diet for all persons of 



IMPERFECT DIGESTION 67 

even one type. Just as the mind learns to deal familiarly 
with a particular set and body of principles and ideas 
and facts, so the alimentary canal and the tissues learn 
to deal successfully with a particular set and body of 
foods, drinks and condiments. There must, however, be 
an apportionment within limitations for proteins, fats, 
starches and fruit acids. It is altogether wrong to eat 
too little. As the common error of the sinewy motor 
is to eat too much meat and to carry overloads of pro- 
teins, crowding the liver and kidneys with uric acid, so 
it is the common error of these " nervous " motor per- 
sons to undereat of proteins. In many instances, putting 
such persons on mutton, prescribing lean and fat to- 
gether, on good bread with plenty of butter and of pea- 
nut butter larded on, and on cabbage and cauliflower to 
expand their alimentary tract, seems like half of the 
cure. The mineral contents of tomatoes and of white 
potatoes thoroughly cooked are good for most of these 
teachers. 

A person of this type must not eat between meals, 
though in some cases four meals a day seem to help. 
Let this fourth meal be good ice cream and crackers at 4 
p. M., not *' a late supper." 



OTHER MODES OF RELIEF 

There are other helps. One is to cease using the vocal 
organs at home, talking as little as politeness permits. 
Another is to take a daily neutral or warm bath before 
going to bed, 90 to 100 Fahrenheit. Another is to 
exercise every muscle every day at least a little. The 
alimentary canal is strengthened by quiet, strong twistings 
and bendings of the trunk. The neck is helped by spe- 
cial exercises daily. 

A person of this type who continues to neglect any seri- 



68 THE HEALTH OF THE TEACHER 

ous dental trouble, whether decay or impacted teeth (often 
hidden in the jaw) or pyorrhea, never gets well. The 
teeth must be made clean and easy in the mouth, and^the 
gums hardened by plenty of brushing. Not infrequently 
a person of this type has not only hypertrophied tonsils 
but adenoids also. When such is the case, surgical relief 
should be had. This patient, however, had no adenoidal 
troubles ; and her tonsils were not usually swollen. Un- 
doubtedly if her tonsils had been removed at twelve 
years of age or so, she would have grown into a stronger 
woman. But the tonsilitis of her later years was only 
one symptom of the whole alimentary canal inferiority. 

Anyone whose condition resembles that of this Case 2 
should wear in winter very warm outer garments and 
overshoes whenever the ground is wet or cold. Much 
physical exercise is not indicated. The best of all is a 
half hour of outdoor walking rapidly alone. It is bad 
for such a person to be always with others listening or 
talking. While the sensorium may be fine (as in Case 2 
here) the supply of fresh good blood is poor, and the 
worn out tissues are replenished but slowly. 

There is some truth in the opinion that " if such a per- 
son had less brains, she would have better health." The 
mind is robbing the body. The remedy is to use the 
" brains " less when out of the schoolroom. 

School authorities dealing with these anemic alimentary 
canal cases of general physical impoverishment should re- 
member that it is cruel to encourage them to work harder 
and cruel to advise them to leave the profession, for 
they are very sensitive, indeed oversensitive, too consci- 
entious generally. It is, however, true notwithstanding 
that an alimentary canal muscularly weak in its peristalsis 
and vermicular action and chemically weak in its digestive 
juices does disqualify one from teaching, pleading, preach- 
ing or healing joyfully and vitally. Such a person should 



IMPERFECT DIGESTION 69 

be a gardener or a poultry man, a clerk in office, store or 
bank, or an artist or musician. A person of this diathesis 
does better in kindergarten or low primary grade than 
anywhere else in teaching. Worst of all for them, 
worse than college instructing, far worse than supervis- 
ing art or music, is teaching in the grammar grades. 

Whether one of this diathesis can completely overhaul 
the alimentary canal and make it effective a-nd strong 
by tWo or three years of outdoor life in the woods and by 
the sea in alternation, is doubtful; moreover, but few 
teachers have any such opportunity. For Case 2, the 
only practical choice is the dilemma, get into some other 
kind of work or radically change the daily program. One 
course takes a sudden resolution ; the other takes per- 
sistence in the determination to overcome the world and 
oneself by scientific health control. Force in action and 
strength of will are, however, moral qualities seldom 
to be found in these victims of heredity and of family 
errors in the early regimen. 

At forty-one years of age, this woman changed to a 
third occupation, with a great variety of duties but free 
from all supervision by other persons temperamentally 
unlike herself, and when last heard from, a year later, 
was in such excellent health as to surprise all her friends, 
especially her medical advisers. Numerous executive 
interests with travel and no heavy responsibilities are 
clearly desirable for women of this diathesis. 



CHAPTER VI 

NERVOUS WRECKAGE 

CASE 3 

CASE 3 is that of a man regarding whom worse er- 
rors by physicians, friends and other counsellors 
could not possibly have been made without killing him. 
Twice he was turned over as dead, once at twenty- 
five years of age, and a second time at forty years. The 
case has a history of two important epochs only, and is 
otherwise uninteresting. The management of this case 
a generation ago erred sincerely for want of modern 
knowledge, the management of the later wreckage not 
many years ago erred for want of personal attention to 
all the factors. In each instance, the recoveries were 
due to superior care and to surgery. The Case himself 
reports that his present life is due to the triumphs of 
surgery. 

Most of the illnesses of teachers are remediable by 
medical care, but were one to allow the impression to be 
formed strongly in the first part of this text that hygiene 
and medicine will cure all troubles, the whole effect of 
this discussion would be so false as to be dangerous. 
In some instances, the only certain remedy is surgery. 
Medicine may give relief ; the knife cures. 

Case 3 is a man of English-Welsh stock, by nature 
energetic and persistent, a combination by no means fav- 
orable to health. He was an athlete, ate too much meat, 
took too much exercise indoors and out, gymnastics, 
driving, walking, etc., taught too many hours a day, 
had too many professional and social engagements; and 

70 



NERVOUS WRECKAGE 71 

became the victim of autointoxication in the worst form. 
He was " bumped out " of the schoolroom by a case of 
pink eye then epidemic, which kept him awake for four- 
teen days, of course, only because of the combination of 
pain with excessive toxic poisoning. This patient lay 
in a coma for twenty-nine days in August; and the rela- 
tives waited those four weeks for the funeral. Never- 
theless he came back to consciousness and for several 
years dragged out an existence unable to read, but by the 
help of his wife managing to hold small teaching posi- 
tions one after another. He then came into the hands 
of an expert oculist who operated upon both eyes. Al- 
most immediately thereafter his physical vigor returned. 
But he persisted in his errors of diet and of regimen. 

The second collapse was due to the wearing out of 
the organs of excretion. Again, he fell into a coma 
which lasted several days ; but static electricity was re- 
sorted to with immediate success. He recovered suffi- 
ciently to get on his feet; but again was only dragging 
out an existence when three surgeons took him in hand. 
One opened up his nasal passages to give him more air, 
another pulled out a dozen sound teeth because their gums 
were infected with pyorrhea; and a third cleaned his 
bladder and kidneys and liver, in several operations, of 
calculi and stone. These remedies took several years. 
Since then, completely changing his diet and regimen, he 
has never had any other illness than is inevitable when 
the liver and kidneys have been overworked and partly 
destroyed in earlier life. What he has left in the way of 
interior organs work well. 

The second collapse, however, was not due wholly to 
errors of diet but in part to a concussion of the spine 
at the point of exit and entry of the kidney nerves. Mas- 
sage, pediatrics, and physiological rest have cured the 
spine at this point. 



72 THE HEALTH OF THE TEACHER 



RESPONSIBILITY WITHOUT AUTHORITY 

Case 3, which might be duplicated among women, illus 
trates several points. One is that for the good of their 
bodies teaching is altogether too interesting to some 
minds. This man was a zealot as a teacher and twice 
played out largely from that cause, which is no reason 
but a sin. Many teachers have the notion that it is their 
duty to carry the world upon their shoulders. This 
notion may be proper enough in a statesman in high office 
or in the religious reformer or prelate ; but it is inappro- 
priate in the teacher whose function, whether rightly or 
not, is socially a subordinate one. Teachers have no 
authority and no hearing from the public such as to jus- 
tify any assumption that the responsibility for social prog- 
ress rests upon them. Case 3 visited parents and even 
tried to influence higher school authorities until he made 
himself sick and thereby relieved the world of his im- 
portunities for change and betterment. This applies to 
him in both the self -destructive epochs of his life. 

But there is much else also in this case. The patient 
ate almost exclusively bread, meat, milk and eggs ; almost 
no vegetables; very little fruit; no candy. He drank 
chocolate to excess. He ate meat at almost every meal, 
usually lean beef. According to his report, he ate 
meat as his main diet from infancy. Until taken in 
hand by modern surgeons and dietitians, he " couldn't 
remember a lunch, a dinner or a supper without meat." 

A third defect in Case 3 was lack of sleep. His meat 
diet kept him alert and wakeful. He went to bed at 
twelve and arose at five, or at eleven to rise at four; 
and went promptly to work. Once a week, usually Sat- 
urday or Sunday afternoon, he took a long nap. Even 
after his first illness and recovery, he had great powers 
of exercise, walked twenty miles at a stretch, or rode 



NERVOUS WRECKAGE 73 

horseback all afternoon. He complains that the present 
diet has cut down his physical strength; but the truth 
is that his present comparative weakness is due almost 
entirely to his former mode of life, which lias injured 
him irrecoverably at many points and in many ways. 

A fourth defect of Case 3 was inattention to his daily 
bowel movements and to daily bathing. He passed from 
constipation to diarrhea every few weeks; and some- 
times failed even to take a weekly hot bath with soap 
lather. His bowels were no more sluggish, however, than 
was his skin. Similarly, he often neglected to brush his 
teeth twice a day. He was " a very busy man " ; in the 
main, he was busy upon self-imposed tasks that might 
have been avoided. Sometimes he did not change his 
underwear for several days, night or day. 

Such is the history of this case. Such is its explana- 
tion. But there are deeper causes than such as have 
been indicated. Case 3 is sinewy motor, long, strong, lean, 
eager, alert and ambitious. His nerves could scarcely 
be better. Able to digest anything, he did not learn until 
well into middle life what to eat. Until fifty years old, 
he did not know what it is to have a heart and a pair of 
lungs; he could run uphill without difficulty in these 
organs. He lacked what is called " common sense," 
which in this instance means somesthesia, the sense of 
the condition of all parts of his body. He neglected 
himself. 

Teaching has many such enthusiasts. They sit up all 
night reading papers and drinking coffee, tea, or choco- 
late. They prepare long reports and hold long faculty 
meetings, ignorant that the long-continued sitting required 
to read the long report or to endure the long faculty 
discussions are directly injurious to all the organized tis- 
sues. It is very bad for the health to fail for hours at 
a stretch to move about and exercise the internal organs. 



74 THE HEALTH OF THE TEACHER 

Case 3 would sit for hours on hours preparing his class 
lessons, reading, reading motionless. His excess in ex- 
ercise did not, as he imagined, make up for progressive 
deterioration of most of his internal organs. 

Fortunately for this man as well as for the human race 
generally, there is a marked social tendency to give to 
the old easier duties, though perhaps more responsibili- 
ties, than they ever carried in their young manhood or 
womanhood. Case 3 found in transfer from high school 
to university teaching, after some post-graduate years, 
rather late in life, a field called by himself and friends 
" more congenial " but seriously considered superior in 
but one important respect to his former activities, less 
pressure from the external world, more freedom of in- 
ternal choice. A field that would have seemed to him at 
twenty-five years of age painfully restricted proved at 
fifty years to be well adapted to his temperament and 
experience. 



CHAPTER VII 
IGNORANCE OF LUNG AND OTHER HYGIENE 

CASES 4 AND 5 

CASES 4 and 5 may well be considered together, since 
they illustrate the same point. 

Case 4 was a young woman, bred in the country, vital 
in every ounce of her body, a red Kelt, Irish at that. 
She was a class teacher until at only twenty-five years of 
age she was made supervising principal. An excellent 
singer, she was often called upon to lead public meetings 
at church and elsewhere. She had splendid energy, 
radiated goodwill, and displayed tact in all her school 
relations. 

One afternoon in November, being the third month 
as supervising principal, with a heavy catarrhal cold and 
a racking cough, she went to her city school superin- 
tendent and complained that the office in the fine new 
school building had no heat and added that she had to 
sing the next evening in a big church gathering. The 
superintendent advised her to see her physician and to 
stay at home the next day. She saw her physician, who 
told her to go home and stay abed until he could call 
the next morning. But she did not stay abed. She did 
not cancel the singing engagement. Evening came and 
rain and sleet, but Case 4, putting on raincoat and over- 
shoes, went to the church and sang. They took her 
home very ill. Six weeks later, she died of quick con- 
sumption. 

Case 5 was a woman of forty-five years of age, who 



76 THE HEALTH OF THE TEACHER 

had taught and managed a private school for many years. 
She was of Danish stock with a dark Pict strain, of 
notably muscular physique. For a year her health had 
been failing; but she had never called or visited a physi- 
cian in all her life, and she proposed to outbrave her 
inner sense of failing health. She took to drinking 
coffee, as many as fifteen and even eighteen cups a day. 
Also, she acquired insomnia. Because her muscular 
strength remained and her appetite and hunger likewise, 
she thought that the condition would wear out and that 
she would soon feel better. One rainy day, she took 
a long walk and got very wet. Four days later, after 
eating a generous beefsteak, she was taken with the 
pneumonia spasm ; and five days later, during which she 
explained to three physicians and two trained nurses, the 
foregoing facts, she became unconscious, dying in her 
tenth hour of that condition, despite oxygen and every 
other known and well-approved remedy. 

In both cases, their lungs gave out. 

In both cases, they rejoiced in hitherto " perfect 
health." 

In both cases, they failed to read their premonitory 
symptoms. 

In both cases, they raced to their deaths. 

In both cases, they disregarded bad weather and de- 
veloped infectious diseases whose germs, of course, they 
already carried. 

In both cases, their minds were so wholly absorbed in 
their own duties as to be unable to think of themselves 
with the result that the world lost richly valuable lives. 

The first of these cases exposed herself during her 
monthly sickness of menstruation. If she had stayed in 
bed those two bad days, and if she had learned then and 
there to care for her health, it is quite possible that she 
would never have developed tuberculosis. Eighty per 



IGNORANCE OF HYGIENE 77 

cent, of civilized human beings show upon post mortem 
autopsies that they had large or small areas of tubercu- 
lar infection that had been healed by returning health. 
" Go to bed and get well " is the first of all hygiene rules. 
The second case here died of pneumonia at the crisis 
of the menopause. Her age at death was forty-five years 
and one week. Five years later, a sister of this patient 
died at the age of forty-four years, eleven months and 
three weeks also at the crisis of the menopause from focal 
infections that had destroyed her heart and kidneys as 
working organs. She also was a teacher in private em- 
ployment. 

INTERWOVEN CAUSES 

These three cases show of what high importance it is 
for women to regard their bodily conditions at the low 
ebbs of the menstrual period and of the cessation of 
menstruation. 

Every case so far suggested is one of enslavement to 
teaching, social enslavement that in the end defeats its 
own motive to do all that one can for teaching. 

But these are not all the facts to be observed in Cases 
4 and 5 as warnings to others. The fair Irish girl of 
the buoyant spirit had seemed to eat enough to be amply 
strong to resist tubercular infection. But the truth was 
otherwise. She had overeaten of white bread, white 
potatoes, vegetables, fruit and candy, and undereaten of 
meat, eggs and milk. In addition, she took a lot of exer- 
cise ; she was indeed very active ; but she did not take 
all-around exercise. She walked, she sang, she did no 
trunk work; she went to bed late; and she wore tight 
corsets ! Her splendid vitality was a delusion, for her 
blood stream did not carry enough phagocytes to defeat 
the tuberculosis germs. Her tissues were watery, she 
was a blooming lass, lovely to look upon, but she had not 



78 THE HEALTH OF THE TEACHER 

been brought up outdoors as an Irish peasant, and there 
were no sea breezes in her blood. On the contrary, she 
had the city notion that her waist should be small ; and 
she was ignorant of the rule to exercise every muscle 
internal and external every day. 

The solid and apparently sound Danish woman with her 
wonderful qualities executive and pedagogical did indeed 
last twenty years longer than the other ; but she died just 
as unnecessarily. Any person ought to know that a 
craving for fifteen cups of coffee a day indicates some- 
thing seriously wrong in one's body. Two days before 
she had the pneumonia spasm, she had a terrible pain 
under her shoulder blades; but she told no one else, 
thinking that she had strained her back doing something, 
she did not remember what. We should teach in our 
schools the meanings of some of these striking and char- 
acteristic symptoms. A sharp, strong pain under the 
shoulder blades often forewarns of pneumonia. Going 
to bed at once and sending someone for a doctor will 
almost always prevent the pneumonia spasm. That pre- 
vented, the chances of recovery are 10 to i. Experienced, 
the chances of recovery are only i to i. If this woman 
had not worn tight corsets and had practiced lung exer- 
cises, pneumonia would probably not have developed. 

Both these women were living in schoolroom dust. 
School teachers are peculiarly liable to lung diseases be- 
because of dust. There is a higher rate of mortality 
from tuberculosis among school teachers than among 
stonecutters, whose high rate is due to their occupation. 
The reason for this is the insanitary condition of the 
schoolroom lack of ventilation, overheating, lack of 
light and the sedentary nature of the teacher's work. 

The public school had to try out two other teachers 
for several months in each case before finding one to 
make a principal as good as Case 4 was; and two years 



IGNORANCE OF HYGIENE 79 

after Case 5 died, the private school closed its doors from 
failure to replace this woman who had run it success- 
fully for many years. Early death is a heavy debit upon 
education. 

Until recent years, every city and county school super- 
intendent in the land might have recounted cases similar 
to these ; but now while we are instituting systematic 
anthropometry and medical inspection in our schools for 
the children and youth, we are beginning also to proceed 
upon the theory that the teachers also should be super- 
vised upon health lines and be glad of such supervision. 
For them, of course, it is provided by their own private 
physicians who report, upon necessity, to the public au- 
thorities ; but we have nobly outgrown the old notion 
that a teacher in the care of the children of other persons 
has " the right " to be as ill or as weak as he or she 
wishes to be. We know that it is very much the duty of 
the public to protect itself by having all teachers regu- 
larly and frequently instructed in personal hygiene that 
they may be as well as possible and protected by knowl- 
edge from such unwise courses as these indicated in this 
chapter. 



CHAPTER VIII 
FATAL OVERWORK 

CASE 6 

CASE 6 is that of a man clearly of old Black British 
breed, heavy, cheerful, quiet, domestic, good. He 
was about forty years of age, taught the last grade of 
grammar school and in the evening school. Summers, he 
farmed in the mountains for his health and pleasure. A 
joyous, genial soul, the last of all thoughts one would 
naturally have of him would have been death from " nerv- 
ous exhaustion." 

He stood about 5 feet 9 inches and weighed 290 pounds. 
He was the most popular of the many teachers in a large 
public school and also in the evening school. Foreigners 
(mostly Russians and Russian Jews) immensely admired 
him. His body coefficient, 4.2, was suggestive of prob- 
able weakness at some points to the medical mind. He 
ate but two meals a day, a moderate breakfast of 
cereals, toast, egg, bacon or chop, coffee, and a heavy 
dinner. His nutrition intake was large even for his 
weight, but his metabolism seemed perfect. 

The trouble began with his election to an important 
post in the city teachers' association at the time of a 
great campaign for educational improvement through 
public appeals in the newspapers and in city politics. The 
first symptom of trouble was insomnia. The patient took 
walks regularly, his bowel movements were satisfactory, 
there was no albuminaria of the urine. But he could not 
sleep soundly all night. At midyear, he was promoted to 

80 



FATAL OVERWORK 81 

be a high school principal, but entered upon his duties 
with misgivings. Conditions were such that he retained 
his evening school classes. He had a wife of very quiet, 
helpful disposition upon whom he relied much. There 
were no children. 

Case 6 left his home (three rooms in a boarding house) 
at seven-thirty o'clock in the morning ; came home at four 
or five in the afternoon; left again at six-thirty and was 
home by ten-thirty almost always. He spent Sunday very 
quietly. Saturday, however, usually found him at his 
school. 

In the spring, night sweats developed ; but he managed 
to get through the school year. (Night school closed in 
April.) By June 25, he was on his mountain farm; he 
tried to work in the orchard, in the woodlot and hayfield, 
but failed. About all that he could do successfully was 
to care for the cows and poultry. His muscular energies 
were dying out, and even by the end of August, he had 
not recovered the power of sleep. Returning to his 
work, by December, he had lost 100 pounds and had 
grown very feeble. In February, one cold day, late in 
the afternoon, he collapsed at the school and was taken 
home. A month later, he found his way back to school, 
but in April he was granted a leave of absence and 
was carried to a sanitarium hundreds of miles away,, 
where he died that summer from no obvious direct cause. 
Almost up to the very end, he wrote letters of the most 
sanguine, optimistic character to his friends. He never 
complained to his wife or to his physicians. He did not 
go suddenly all to pieces. His strength simply wore out ; 
the flame of life died down, stage by stage. 

Such a condition does not proceed without causation. 
The event proved that he was not adapted temperamen- 
tally to school work. 



82 THE HEALTH OF THE TEACHER 



THE DANGER IN HIGH VITALITY 

We come here to modern science. The adrenal glands 
above the kidneys secrete adrenalin and upon provoca- 
tion excrete it, in anger, fear, enthusiasm, any excite- 
ment The muscles tighten, the brain quickens. The ef- 
fect lasts twenty minutes, forty minutes, an hour. Then 
comes return of the adrenalin from the tissues back to the 
glands ; and quiet reigns in the body again. The pituitary 
glands are involved in the same cycle. In this case, the 
pituitary fluid was drowned out by the adrenalin. 

Now a normal man with a body coefficient (say) of 
2.5 (height 5 ft. 9 in., weight 150 pounds) can stand this 
sweep and return of adrenalin four, five, six times a day 
without damage to the health. Indeed, unless he has 
some excitement, he will not stay well and strong but will 
become stagnant and sluggish; he goes stale; he dries 
up. A more frequent flow of the juices to and from 
these ductless glands above the kidneys makes any man 
thin and nervous but unless too frequent, he thereby 
develops energy and appetite. School teaching tends to 
frequent discharges of these glands. 

But it is one thing to charge a thin man with (say) a 
body coefficient of 1.9 with adrenalin and a very different 
thing to charge a fat man with a body coefficient of 4.2. 
Case 6 got on fairly well for some years as a class teacher 
day and night ; but the moment he added politics and the 
second moment that he changed to school executive work, 
he passed his limit. Much of the adrenalin got into his 
brain and kept him awake all night. It raced his heart. 
It scoured his kidneys. 

.If he had greatly lightened his diet, cutting down the 
meats^that furnish abundant materials for adrenalin and 
taking cereal protein rather than animal, he might per- 



FATAL OVERWORK 83 

haps have kept his health. But he did not know enough 
physiology to do this. 

Case 6 was not an ambitious man ; rather he was con- 
scientious and accommodating. Circumstances gave to 
him more than his body was able to endure. Its very 
bigness was fatal under the limitations of his general 
ignorance of physiology and of hygiene. Living in a 
boarding house with its night noises was a handicap. The 
time spent going to and from school, four trips on four 
days a week and two at least upon two other days, aver- 
aging a half hour each, was another handicap. Had he 
remained a grammar school teacher only, doing no night 
work, avoiding all school politics, he would probably 
have lived twenty or thirty years longer. 

Temperamental instincts and environmental ideas, a 
desire to please and oblige, unwillingness to say " No ! " 
when asked to do more, delight in being a leader, these 
largely explain this breakdown. These vital corpulent 
men and women, these soft, pleasant, kind people, do not 
belong in teaching for their own good. They seldom even 
enter upon teaching. Indeed, relatively but few of their 
number ever go to the normal school or college or even 
complete high school. Contrary to the general opinion 
regarding them, they often overwork ; and they are char- 
acteristically short-lived when serving as teachers. 

An important factor in the case of the vital corpulent, 
such as Case 6, is the social pressure upon them. It 
is a common sport to make fun of fat men and women, 
and it is common also to add that their looks show that 
they do not work hard. A fat man dislikes to refuse 
extra service lest he be charged with indolence and lazi- 
ness. It is true that much flesh is a burden to one who 
does not work with one's muscles. It is hard for the vital 
corpulent to work at all, much harder than for the mus- 
cular, the sinewy or the ideo-motor. Nevertheless, the 



84 THE HEALTH OF THE TEACHER 

fact that the intellectual work of the vital corpulent is 
usually of a high order constitutes an offset not to be 
lightly regarded by the wise. 

Case 6 died prematurely because he did not come to 
self -under standing in time to save himself against social 
pressures; and when he died, his city lost a man whom 
it has not yet been able to replace at all, genial, buoy- 
ant, cheerful, diligent, enthusiastic, efficient and socially 
impressive and influential. 



CHAPTER IX 
ERRORS OF PARENTS IN CHILDHOOD CARE 

CASE 7 

CASE 7 at thirty-two years of age suddenly devel- 
oped inability to eat and to sleep. This came on 
the last days of the school year; and she went away to 
a quiet summer resort. At thirty-five years of age, she 
disappeared for the summer months in the Rocky Moun- 
tains, utterly unable to get on with people. Frequently, 
during the school year, she has had to spend Saturday 
and Sunday in bed. Case 7 often has what she calls 
" hysterics," which in truth, however, are poor imita- 
tions of the medical phenomenon roughly classified as 
hysteria. She never gets " besides herself," is never lost 
to common sense. She has had several minor surgical 
operations, such as the removal of small external tumors 
or cysts. She has small physical but perfect moral hardi- 
hood. Professionally, she holds a high place as a teacher 
and earns a high salary. 

Nevertheless, Case 7 is distinctly a pathological case. 
She may live to a very old age. Often for months, she 
is very well and feels well. Seldom does she have serious 
pains. But she lives in a constant fear of that " gone 
feeling," when she must go to bed or run away from 
present realities. 

Physicians, surgeons, dentists look over her and into 
her ; and find nothing definitely the matter. Case 7 is a 
very hard and steady worker. The heads of institutions 
employing her regard her as a jewel above price. Sev- 
eral men have wished to marry her. Her pupils and as- 

85 



86 THE HEALTH OF THE TEACHER 

sistant teachers do not " obey " her ; they help her because 
they like her. 

Case 7 has now perfectly rationalized her life, her con- 
duct, herself ; but she cannot rationalize her teaching en- 
vironment, which is always on the edge of being too 
much for her or actually sends her over the precipice for 
a day or a fortnight or a summer or a full year of being 
out of school, which has occurred twice. 



A TEACHER BY HEREDITY 

She is the product of inheritance and of family and 
school environments. Both parents were working teach- 
ers and good ones; they could not be good parents and 
fine teachers at the same time. They kept a house but 
no home. At sixteen years of age, Case 7 herself went 
into teaching. In consequence, she was fated to be 
robbed of her proper growth in all three stages of adol- 
escence, primary in the development of the womb and 
sex-organs and in stature, secondary in stature and width, 
and tertiary in thickness, weight and flesh. She is 
shorter and lighter than either parent. Most of her life, 
her body coefficient has been 1.7, a serious matter to one 
with relatively long body and short limbs. Recently at 
forty years of age, her weight due to special care has 
climbed to 135 pounds, which is thirty pounds more than 
her usual condition. She reached this once before at 
twenty-five years of age. But even this weight is forty 
pounds under that characteristic of her parents and grand- 
parents, all of whom were rather large always. 

We like to deceive ourselves by remarking of such 
persons that their small size and invalidism are the result 
of unaccountable birth-inferiority ; but the childhood pic- 
tures show no such inferiority. The lifelong intellectual 
superiority shows that Case 7 was well-born. She has 



ERRORS OF PARENTS 87 

succeeded in getting two university degrees in residence 
and in educating at her own cost a younger brother and 
has helped her parents financially in their failing old 
age. 

We have here a case of two regrettable features, the 
altricious and imperfect development of the sex-organs 
and glands with characteristically irregular and deficient 
or superabundant menstruation and, second, the interest- 
ing phenomenon that Nature steps in every fey/ weeks 
lightly and every few years heavily and enforces extra 
rest because of the generally characteristic overwork. Of 
course, teachers need the sabbatical year. Of course, no 
human being should try to do over six hours of intellec- 
tual work every day or over forty such hours a week us- 
ually. Of course, Case 7 often works at school duties 
twice these allowances. She says that she cannot help 
it; and according to present school traditions, this is 
probably true. 



TOO MANY SMALL MEALS 

In times past, however, Case 7 indulged herself in a 
good many false notions and habits. With an abnormally 
small stomach, she had nevertheless permitted the forma- 
tion of the habit of eating " snacks " between meals, espe- 
cially four o'clock tea, consisting of cookies and weak tea. 
This kept her alimentary canal in a perpetual state of gas- 
eous ferment. She had a very small breakfast, a small 
lunch, a small afternoon snack and then tried to eat a de- 
cent dinner against which the angry little stomach often 
rebelled, with the result that, being hungry at ten o'clock, 
she had a small meal at bed-time. Also, she cared more 
for tastes than for food-values in her diet. 

A one-quart stomach needs a one-quart meal as much 
as a two-quart stomach needs a two-quart meal. With- 



88 THE HEALTH OF THE TEACHER 

out a comfortable bolus of food, the stomach fails prop- 
erly in its vermicular action, which, though simply me- 
chanical, is a distinct help to digestion. 



INDIFFERENCE TO FUNCTIONS 

It is written strongly in the nature of all normal women 
to have a four-day menstrual period, following the 
moon-month of 28^4 days. In consequence, menstrua- 
tion occurs normally (say) on Monday, June i ; then 
Monday, June 29 ; Monday, July 27 ; Monday, August 
24 ; but Tuesday, September 22, instead of Monday, Sep- 
tember 21. Ordinarily, the second or third day of the 
menstrual flow is the day of severest nervous instability 
and weakness. Every physically normal woman teacher 
ought literally to lie low one day during each month ; 
that is, stay quietly at home and rest. But the school 
regimen generally does not permit this, though in a few 
cities and in a few institutions women teachers are granted 
at their option one day off a month with full pay. Of 
course, some women of great muscular and nervous 
strength feel no need of such a day of quiet; these are 
of the political, non-marriageable type who advertise 
themselves accordingly. They are as sexless, as unsym- 
pathetic and as unintelligent as some men in teaching. 
Any normal woman anywhere, foreseeing that her men- 
struation is to begin on Monday or Tuesday should take 
especial pains to rest on the preceding Sunday. Any 
normal woman whose menstruation did begin on Wednes- 
day, Thursday or Friday should rest thoroughly on the 
following Saturday. Unless she had positive pain, as 
occurred sometimes, Case 7 paid no attention to the 
monthly flow. She did not perceive that much of her 
ill-health was the direct consequence of this ignorant 
carelessness. 



ERRORS OF PARENTS 89 

Why do not physicians tell all women these things? 
First, because few women listen to and obey their physi- 
cians. Second, because maidens generally resent any 
advice upon this subject; they go to physicians to get 
cured, not to prevent the need of being cured. Third, 
because many physicians do not know and do not try to 
understand the truth about school programs and opera- 
tions. However, nearly everything that physicians say 
about schools is true; probably most of what they think 
is also true. My own opinion about the way education 
is run in America is that the physiological ignoramus rules 
supreme. For example, I regard the five-hour high school 
day a crime against youth and posterity. Fourth, physi- 
cians do not warn women teachers about their menstrual 
requirements because they imagine that the mothers 
teach all that is necessary, which is generally not so. 
Fifth, physicians are healers, not hygienists, pathologists 
rather than physiologists, which is both unnecessary and 
unfortunate but not unreasonable in view of the fact that 
custom requires them to live by fees for cures, not by 
salaries for keeping men and women well. The Chinese, 
who do some things well (else their civilization would 
have perished long ago), pay their doctors only when in 
good health. 

The third notion of this Case has been that she should 
give all that is in her daily to her work. With a vivid 
and large imagination, this work has included the routine 
of instruction and supervision, the charge of a girls' 
sorority, playing in the amateur theatricals of the institu- 
tion, taking an active part in the Young Women's Chris- 
tian Association and helping her colleagues, male and fe- 
male, in the preparation of books and papers. She has 
also represented her institution several times a year with 
one or more addresses at teachers' institutes. 

Inevitably, one asks two questions: why is this 



90 THE HEALTH OF THE TEACHER 

woman not herself a school or college executive? Why 
has she never married ? One answer serves : She has 
felt inadequate, inadequate even to her present duties, 
inadequate, therefore, to social control and inadequate 
to being a successful and happy wife and mother. It is 
said that she has " instinctively refused marriage." The 
contrary is true. Instinctively, she has hoped to marry; 
she is a warm-hearted, affectionate, whole-souled, sincere 
person. But she has realized in conduct, though perhaps 
not self-consciously, that physically she could not marry 
with success. Her upcoming was no upbringing to a 
whole normal life. If at sixteen years of age, when she 
left home to earn her own living, she had become a mus- 
cular worker and had kept good hours and eaten good 
food, her secondary and tertiary adolescence probably 
would have brought her almost up to normal physique ; in 
which case she would have married successfully.. 

Case 7, therefore, becomes an arraignment of two 
teacher-parents, of their ideas and conduct, and of the 
world of education a generation ago. Unhappily, there 
are some " Case 7's " that are being caused in these years 
of the twentieth century. 

Case 7 is not wholly cured of her false notions. She 
still sits and knits when she " has nothing else to do " ; 
or runs over to nurse another woman's baby for an even- 
ing when she " has nothing else to do " ; or writes letters 
to her thousand friends and former pupils when she 
" has nothing else to do." Perhaps Case 7 will never 
learn to sit and do nothing at all, except store surplus 
nervous energy. Case 7 is an invaluable friend to every- 
one else than herself ; she is one of the women workhorses 
of the higher culture. 

Case 7 has all the artistry and high-skipping of her 
Norman French blood and some of the social tact of her 
Highland Scotch blood. She has just enough of the pure 



ERRORS OF PARENTS 91 

Angle to be persistent and inconsiderate of herself. Per- 
haps the excessive range and variety of her interests may 
be traced in part to this wide range of hereditary traits. 
What a success she might have made as a professional 
actress the world will never know. 

Some persons collapse especially when they have some- 
thing just ahead to do that is disagreeable ; it is like " play- 
ing 'possum " to avoid duty. Most of these cases are 
physically pathological and should not be taken as delib- 
erate faking. But other persons collapse when on the 
threshold of some great pleasure or merry-making or of 
some long-desired opportunity. It is a collapse like the 
bursting of a soap-bubble. Such persons are made in- 
tensely miserable for awhile as though the gates of Para- 
dise were shut in their faces. They are like business 
men trying to handle million dollar enterprises on ten 
thousand dollar working capital funds. The slackers who 
soldier on their jobs and finally flunk should not be con- 
fused with the valiant weak who undertake beyond their 
powers to perform. It is to the latter order of woman- 
kind that Case 7, by reason of heredity and of early 
rearing belongs to her own chagrin. American schools 
and colleges have many such good women. 



CHAPTER X 
DEFICIENT PHYSIQUE FOR TEACHING 

CASE 8 

THE history of Case 8 as a teacher so far is very 
brief. She was graduated from college at twenty- 
two years of age and immediately entered upon high 
school teaching. In four months, she came home a physi- 
cal and mental wreck ; and after some years shows no con- 
siderable recovery. Fortunately, she has a father and a 
home. She went into teaching for the sake of the experi- 
ence and mental enlargement. Baffled, broken and cha- 
grined, she is unlikely to try again. 

Every year, there are thousands on thousands of teach- 
ers whose brief term of teaching has broken their health 
and who drop out hating the occupation and yet- dis- 
gusted with themselves for their physical inability to 
cope with its conditions. Case 8 is a striking illustration 
and a loud warning against experiments of this char- 
acter. Before she began to teach, those who knew and 
understood her physique advised her not to undertake the 
work. 

She came of intellectually brilliant families, states- 
men, preachers, architects, social leaders for many gen- 
erations. There are, however, two traits in the heredity 
that have been injurious to this scion, social ambition 
and love of money. A high school position seemed to 
offer both social prestige and an addition of cash income 
to her family, which in truth needed neither. 

Case 8 was five feet, five inches in height and weighed 
at graduation 125 pounds. She is a brunette. Her pulse 

92 



DEFICIENT PHYSIQUE 93 

was low, slow, weak, irregular, very hard to get at all 
when she was excited or frightened. (55 to 90, with a 
tendency to 58 or 60.) Her voice was so low that she 
could scarcely be heard even by those near her whom 
she was addressing. She avoided society, never went 
out with young men, but tried hard to get high marks in 
her studies. She preferred as companions women many 
years older or boys and girls much younger than herself. 
(This is a trait of morons and hypermorons, but Case 8 is 
intellectually superior and in no proper sense a moron.) 

She is mainly English with some traces of Belgian 
blood. Delicately bred, living in an atmosphere of in- 
tellectual discussion, surrounded by family friends and 
supported by their affection, she suffers from pity where 
she desires admiration. And while she suffers, she hates 
the rural school principal, the rural school board and the 
rural community where she was defeated and humiliated. 



AN ENVIRONMENT OF IGNORANCE 

Case 8 ran into this school condition, forty high 
school pupils, one hundred fifty elementary school pupils, 
six elementary school teachers, her principal, who was 
supposed to help her teach the high school courses but 
did not, and no colleague, with a four year high school 
program to put through every day. Her principal was 
no older than herself and had never been to college. He 
spent his day disciplining pupils and visiting classes. She 
tried to teach the entire high school currieulum, four 
subjects a year, four years, that is, sixteen different sub- 
jects each week, and an average of twelve each day. Her 
living room was in a farmhouse taken over by the village 
preacher and had no heat whatever. She ate at the vil- 
lage hotel, an affair connected with the crossroads gen- 
eral store. 



94 THE HEALTH OF THE TEACHER 

Against all these conditions, Case 8 felt a moral revul- 
sion. She knew that the high school required first of all a 
well-educated veteran principal, who could and would 
show her how to teach and up to whom the boys and girls 
would look in admiration. Next, she knew that to carry 
on the program honestly required the services of not less 
than two other full-time teachers. Even so, each teacher 
would have five different subjects to prepare weekly. 
There is no such person as one competent to teach physics, 
French, algebra, history, English rhetoric and literature, 
bookkeeping and yet other subjects daily. She knew this 
and resented what she styled " being a fake." As a young 
woman, she resented the disposition of the preacher fam- 
ily of farmer stock toward herself for teaching; they 
considered her as no better than a farmhand and assumed 
that she taught because she was poor and needed the 
money and knew no other way to get it. The social pres- 
tige of her father and family was meaningless to them ; 
that human civilization depends not so much upon food 
as upon the circulation of wise thoughts, they did not 
comprehend. 

Her voice was so weak, her manners were so gentle, 
her soul was so pure, innocent and remote from the 
world, this rural world, that she herself was inconsequen- 
tial. She had no way to enforce her instruction upon 
the minds of parents or pupils. 

While she was getting sick from cold and from criti- 
cism, the village school board voted to ask her to resign 
and quit, which she promptly did, went home, and took 
to her bed. 

All of which seems to have but little to do with physiol- 
ogy. But why was her voice weak? There is a strain 
of thyroid gland deficiency in her breed. Some of her 
kin die of exophthalmic goitre. Her own thyroid devel- 
opment is poor. Her growth never came right. She 



DEFICIENT PHYSIQUE 95 

has very small narrow shoulders and a weak mouth. Her 
movements are very slow. She had medical treatment 
of a modern character prior to this calamity and has had 
more since with good results. 

The great change in her regimen has been to get out- 
doors in the family motor car and in walking. Indoors, 
housework has been prescribed with benefit. 

Case 8 suggests three hygienic propositions. 

First, physicians should seek to correct in children the 
procedures of errant thyroid glands. This is a newly 
discovered duty of parents, teachers and physicians. 

Second, persons like Case 8 should not try to teach 
anywhere. She would not have been admitted into a 
well-managed city school system as a teacher under or- 
dinary peace conditions. 

Third, but if and when such persons do teach, they 
should insist upon having competent school principals 
over them; insist and if and when refused, they should 
decline to teach forthwith in order to save their own 
health and reputation. The moral indignation of Case 8 
should have boiled over, which boiling over would have 
saved her from being publicly branded as a failure, and 
the school itself from being ruined as it was by an in- 
competent youth, and education from being held in local 
contempt for the whole affair. 

Bad as was the educational situation in that village, in 
many other schools it is still worse ; and it will never be 
better until young women teachers are thoroughly in- 
doctrinated in and habituated to the belief that their first 
duty as teachers is not to be silent because silence is 
" ladylike " but to be frank and truthful and yet ladylike. 
Young women will remain publicly silent until they learn 
to take walks outdoors or to play tennis, and to keep their 
blood well oxygenated, no matter whether their thyroid 
glands are good or not. We must also have complaints 



96 THE HEALTH OF THE TEACHER 

publicly registered in protest against communities where 
teachers are neglected as to their home needs out of 
school. 

Case 8, then, is eloquent of the necessity to select oc- 
cupation according to physique and also of the neces- 
sity to instruct many communities how to appreciate the 
teachers who come to serve them loyally. The young 
woman who followed this failure had less intelligence 
and inferior culture and made a worse, though a differ- 
ent, failure. And the young man had to find another 
high school as principal to victimize the next year. These 
results, however, have not helped Case 8 to recover 
physically from the moral shock that she has suffered. 



CHAPTER XI 
INSUFFICIENCY OF MIND FOR TEACHING 

CASE 9 

* 4 1\ TAN does not live by bread alone, but by every 
1VJ. word that proceedeth out of the mouth of God," 
\ i. e. by truth. There are persons made ill, very ill, by 
nothing physical but by false notions socially enforced. 
No change in diet could possibly help them. They do 
not need more sleep; more exercise; more baths, better 
dental care ; or anything else for their bodies. They need 
a new set of notions and habits. Case 9 is in point. 

He was plain Angle by ancestry with all the traits of 
his race. He had attained the highest educational stand- 
ing possible to an American scholar and held an im- 
portant post that included some teaching. And he had 
reached the age of forty, with a wife at once handsome, 
well-educated and very fond of him. They owned a 
home and much other property; but he went insane, as 
the Angle under social pressure is aberrant enough by 
heredity to do all too easily. 

Case 9 held intently to his own ideals. He proposed to 
make the world conform to his own high and generally 
correct standards. His was a mind of habits, very good 
ones; but not a flexible mind quick to adjust itself to 
changing situations, not a mind that flowed around and 
engulfed obstacles, but a mind that struck the rocks in the 
current of life. He could not ooze around a difficulty; 
or undermine it; or jump over it joyously; he had -to 
knock it out. In consequence, Case 9 made the most loyal 

97 



98 THE HEALTH OF THE TEACHER 

friends and just as aggressive opponents; he split his 
world into two parties, for and against, with none indif- 
ferent, no soft, easy, restful neutrals. Unhappily for 
himself, his position was not important enough for his 
opponents to become life-and-death enemies, aiming to 
get him out. Instead, they preferred to badger and bear- 
bait him. (Both badgers and bears enjoy quarrels so 
much that they grow fat in the game of life. Bears as 
well as men engage in bearbaiting.) 

Case 9 believed in system and in records. He could and 
did make public speeches in faculty meetings an hour, 
even two hours long, defending and explaining his rec- 
ords and methods. The least opposition brought from 
him long streams of talk. Yet he was by no means gar- 
rulous by nature ; his talk was conscientiously done as 
from necessity. Six months before he went insane, 
medical men and psychiatrists began to notice and to men- 
tion to one another the aberrant tendencies and develop- 
ments. In one instance, he heard a false rumor affect- 
ing a man whom he disliked. Notwithstanding repeated 
corrections of this rumor, he repeated it daily and could 
not correct his own memory regarding it. 



BROODING 

Consider a good machine with many axles and gear 
wheels, receiving power over a pulley from a belt. Shift 
the belt to the power wheel and the machine goes to work 
quietly, tremendously. But of a sudden a gear wheel 
strips its gears and the wheel begins to race because it 
can no longer convey power and do work. Case 9 had 
wheels in his head and great driving power but the judg- 
ment gear wheel stripped its gears and went on a mad 
race. Physicians, friends, higher authorities advised 
Case 9 to quit his work and go to a sanitarium. His 



INSUFFICIENCY OF MIND 99 

wife pleaded with him. He was relieved of part of his 
duties, notwithstanding his own protest. This move of 
his real friends created dire suspicion in his mind. One 
night he went raving mad. A few weeks later he had 
quieted, and frequently walked about the streets, with face 
marked with court-plaster where he had torn his cheeks 
with his fingernails. His usual errand was to take flow- 
ers to his friends. After a year of devolution of mind, he 
died in a private asylum. 

This was no case of neurasthenia ; nor of paresis ; nor 
of paranoia; nor of split personality; nor of melancholia. 
It was simple dementia, loss of mind from fret and 
misunderstanding and brooding. 

The man who cannot get his mind off of one subject, 
- whose mind does not play, will soon have no mind at 
all. He may become a fool ; he may become a maniac ; 
he cannot remain a normal man. 

Case 9 needed two changes in his daily regimen, first 
play ; second, amusement. He took life too seriously, too 
strenuously. 

A human brain contains virtually for practical purposes 
an infinite number of cells that break down rapidly but 
have the marvellous, the miraculous power of teaching 
their successors all that they know. The entire brain is 
new every few weeks. The used parts of it are new per- 
haps every day. Nor does the brain get tired of wearing 
away at the same points daily perpetually; on the con- 
trary, it has a distinct inclination to do this thing. In 
addition, when a part (a nerve nucleus) is used much, 
there is a distinct inclination not to spread over to sur- 
rounding parts. This amounts to cutting deep ruts in 
the brain. A pretty illustration of -this is that a person 
who both plays the piano and works a typewriter finds 
that the two sets of finger habits conflict with one another. 
He types all day and then tends to type on the piano ; or 



ioo THE HEALTH OF THE TEACHER 

he plays the piano all evening and the next morning finds 
himself playing with a piano action, upon the typewriter. 
In consequence of this, a brain needs widely-irrigating ex- 
ercises that will relieve overworked areas and draw oth- 
ers into use. Such exercises are plays. 

The plays for adults are many, golf, horse-back riding, 
tennis, swimming, skating, hockey, baseball, games with 
one's own children. 

Every adult should play every day at something or 
other. The ecstasy of play is a safety-valve. 

Case 9 knew this but allowed professional duties to 
crowd all play ou-t of his life. 

An inferior substitute for play is amusement, which 
takes more forms even than play. There are concerts, 
operas, movies, chess, supper parties and other relaxa- 
tions. 

Case 9 had no amusements. Occasionally, he took his 
boy out for a walk in the woods and taught him botany. 
Even at receptions and formal parties, he talked shop. 
He imagined that his religion required him to be serious 
all the time. To him, talk about education was all that 
he knew of seriousness. He thought even of religion and 
of philosophy as means to the educational end. Even 
what science he knew was so bookish that he never set 
up a carpenter shop in his basement or an electrical labor- 
atory in his attic. He lived in abstraction designed to 
effect social control through the school. 

He considered it wicked to read a modern novel. He 
objected to " wasting " time. He believed not in the 
short-hour, high pressure work day but in the all-hours, 
high pressure work days. He made realities of unreali- 
ties and lived in ideas and emotions and in moral battles. 

His wife felt but could not counteract his drive toward 
mental ruin through ever narrowing interests in his daily 
life. 



INSUFFICIENCY OF MIND 101 

If, however, his colleagues and friends had foreseen 
what might happen and if all together they had in a 
kindly way conspired to make him play and to learn how 
to be amused and to enjoy both play and amusement, 
most of them play and are amused at life, if they had 
understood the inner workings of his mind, they could 
have turned him aside from this fate. 

Always some men and women in teaching are going on 
this downward road. It is the down grade that draws 
also many a farmer's wife. But in more than half the 
cases, something happens to save the victim. An in- 
stance in point was that of an educator whose unexpected 
bankruptcy from outside interests ruined his reputation 
and -took him out of education, only to make him a 
house-contractor, rich and happy. Like Case 9, he was 
" going daft " over a few pet educational notions. A 
house-contractor with but three ideas in his repertoire 
will soon cease to function. One idea sometimes makes 
an educator famous. Common sense men of the world 
look upon such educators as mentally unsound, " half- 
cracked," " half-baked." 



THE NECESSITY TO PLAY 

This man used to say when it was suggested that he 
join the country club and play golf and whist, that this 
would lower his professional standing, that he often 
heard persons passing by the golf links comment upon the 
leisure of the golfers unfavorably. But the truth is that 
the men and women who really control American affairs 
in a large way think favorably of such persons as can get 
their work done and have leisure for physical renewal. 

The personal hygiene of that teacher is not complete 
who never thinks of play and relaxation, and never 
shares in the fun of being alive "Consider the lilies of 



102 THE HEALTH OF THE TEACHER 

the field, how they grow. They toil not neither do they 
spin. Yet even Solomon in all his glory was not arrayed 
like one of these." 

A fishing-pole of a Saturday at forty can save a man 
from the asylum at fifty years of age. 

Raise calves and colts. 

Indulge in railroad tickets, the best of geographies. 

Take two friends to a restaurant for dinner. 

Read Kipling or O. Henry or Dickens. 

Do anything except grind all day every day from year's 
end to year's end lest life or mind end sadly and suddenly. 

Sunrise to sunset six days a week are the extreme 
limits of work for any sane man. 

Even write verse though no one else ever reads it. 
Do something, anything greatly different from the set 
tasks. 

Have a vocation, an avocation and at least one hobby. 
Be several different persons within the law. 

One woman going the dreadful route of Case 9 was 
switched off ty being transferred to another school and 
required to move into another boarding-house half a mile 
from her place of teaching. She fought the proposition ; 
but being given the alternative, discharge, accepted. 
Three months afterwards she was a new and happier 
woman. 

Man is born a nomad. He was not born to occupy an 
underground cave all his life. He was born to rejoice in 
sea and sky and change. The normal mood is that of 
Marcus Aurelius, " My life is the sojourn of a 
stranger." The passion to found an ancestral estate in 
order that one's great grandchildren may die in the same 
bed as oneself is highly mediaeval and artificial and dis- 
tinctly a transient phase of human ambition. The nat- 
ural man prefers with Plutarch to " voyage among many 
cities." 



INSUFFICIENCY OF MIND 103 

Any education that binds a man to a particular trend of 
thought and action is no education at all but an impris- 
onment of the spirit. In the reformed education of the 
period when we shall of necessity reconstruct education 
by democratizing it to meet the new needs of social life, 
we may forestall in very many cases all these tendencies 
to insanity from false ideation by placing in the school 
programs, along with very much greater amounts of 
science, history, literature, and the fine arts, enough 
biography to establish in all intellectual persons the con- 
viction that successful men and women live varied days 
and engage in play and are glad that the whole burden of 
the universe is not one man's to carry. The man here 
took himself too seriously, and the world also. He 
might have learned much of value by discovering the 
real lives of the great, from Washington and Lincoln in 
America, to Homer the musician and Shakespeare the 
player in Europe. In truth, training is only small part 
of education, necessary but far from all of it. The 
free spirit that plays and enjoys is far more powerful in 
developing a good man than discipline such as this man 
enforced upon himself. 



CHAPTER XII 
BURNING THE CANDLE TOO FAST 

CASE IO 

AT thirty-five years of age, Case 10 had an open 
world before him. He was handsome, healthy, 
brilliant and popular. He had a beautiful wife and one 
boy. Of American birth, he was a true Anglo-Saxon, as 
much impulsive Angle as amiable Saxon. Already, as 
an educator, he had a good salary and ranked as the sec- 
ond man in the service of his city. 

His Saxon traits of congeniality and cheerfulness 
proved his undoing. He had, however, a sound consti- 
tution and bore up for a long, long time. 

He was blond, blue-eyed, five feet ten inches in height, 
and weighed 175 pounds. He had enough of the Angle 
in him to be alert and athletic. His boys at school as 
well as his colleagues liked him. He was the beau ideal 
of the young women school teachers of the city. He 
dressed with taste and care. 

His physical regimen included bathing, tooth-brushing, 
gymnastics and almost every hygienic requirement, al- 
most every one. 

Case 10 began by drinking fine tasting alcoholic stimu- 
lants and smoking good cigars after school hours like a 
gentleman at his club, not with other educators but with 
politicians, journalists, business men and men about town. 
At this phase of his career, he began to show an irregular 
pulse and high color in his cheeks. 

Then came a great political disappointment. He was 

104 



BURNING THE CANDLE TOO FAST 105 

defeated by an outside candidate for the city school super- 
intendency. The very school board members who had 
sat in the club with him smoking and drinking were 
afraid to put him before the city as the foremost educator. 

The next phase saw Case 10 smoking cigarettes on the 
way to school, taking brandy and whiskey in small sips 
during school hours, visiting cafes after school and play- 
ing cards for money anoV doing worse until the early morn- 
ing hours with young bloods of various social grades. 
He seldom got over six hours abed at night. 

His wife, believing him unfaithful, went home to her 
parents ; but he kept his house open after a fashion. His 
gambling netted him money on the average, and he lived 
high. He became very influential in ward politics. 

Then came a second disappointment. With the sup- 
port of every newspaper, he deadlocked against an ex- 
tremely serious local candidate for the city superinten- 
dency, and again he lost. 

At this stage, Case 10 breathed with difficulty. His 
skin was white as a sheet. There were great blue pockets 
under his eyes. His heart was pumping hard. Indiges- 
tion kept him from eating good meals; but he took to 
crackers and milk as his main reliance, which was intelli- 
gent. 

At this stage, Case 10 looked incandescent like a human 
gas mantle. 

The third period saw him much reduced in weight, ex- 
cessively brilliant in conversation and erratic in judg- 
ment, and frequently napping in his office during school 
hours. His wife returned to him for the sake of their 
boy and of the family name. She appeared like an old 
and haggard woman. He ceased to stay out late at night ; 
but began to cough and to have night sweats. He was 
still the second man in the city school service. 

Then came the third disappointment. Again, the city 



io6 THE HEALTH OF THE TEACHER 

superintendency was vacant Again Case 10 was a can- 
didate. But now he had not one supporter. It was to 
him a hideous disillusionment. He never claimed to 
have reformed; in truth, he frequently got drunk after 
school. But he did believe that as the leader of all the 
men of the teaching force, the ablest executive, the most 
fluent public speaker, the political head of his ward, he 
would get at least one vote. On the contrary, a local 
man of quiet nature, barely thirty years old, defeated 
him unanimously. 

CJase 10 had misunderstood the social forces. 

A year later, he was given leave of absence. The 
clinic examination indicated that one lung and one kidney 
were out of commission. That winter at the first snow- 
fall, he died in his first hemorrhage of the lungs. 

There are two flatterers peculiarly gifted in seducing 
some brilliant professional men who do not take much 
muscular exercise out of doors, alcohol and tobacco. 
Neither one alone is very dangerous to men of muscular 
motor temperament who live out of doors. Both together 
have deceived,- seduced and destroyed many a Case 10. 

Under their influence, Case 10 became untruthful even 
to himself. He lost the power to .remember conversa- 
tions, to count correctly the number of children in a class, 
and to tell right from wrong. Naturally without a trace 
of malice, he became hateful to a loving wife because she 
could not trust him. 

He never meant to reform or even to improve his pub- 
lic conduct. A nauseated stomach and a rebellious ner- 
vous system compelled him to cut down his offences ; but 
he was never repentant. 

In most cities, Case 10 would have been discharged, but 
the frequent changes in the city superintendency and his 
own hobnobbing with just as frequently changing board 
members prevented this. 



BURNING THE CANDLE TOO FAST 107 

The moralists of the city who knew the facts, mostly 
the older women teachers, charged the ruin of Case 10 
to one or more of three causes, i. the clubs and club- 
life. 2. alcohol and tobacco. 3. a too lenient wife. 

Case 10, like most Anglo-Saxons, had a poor instinct of 
self-preservation. He longed to be known as " a good 
fellow." He could not resist the invitation to " have an- 
other." Case 10 was known to drink a dozen cocktails 
and as many whiskies and brandies at a single night ses- 
sion. He drank enormous amounts of seltzer, so enor- 
mous that his skin was bleached and his kidneys bloated 
by excessive water. 

\ 

WHAT MIGHT HAVE BEEN 

If the world war had occurred in the period when Case 
10 was going from 25 to 30 years of age, he would have 
become a first lieutenant ; or when he was going from 30 
to 35, a captain at the least. On the firing-line, he would 
have been a hero. As an educator, he undertook more 
than one heroic enterprise. He fought through the state 
legislature one of the first bills for teachers' pensions ever 
passed in any of our States, perhaps the very first. Hun- 
dreds of the leading statesmen and politicians in Great 
Britain and America have had just his virtues and his 
failings, and not a few preachers and literary men. 
His profession caused him to be judged by unusually high 
standards. 

That Case 10 should die in the early forties from hy- 
gienic mistakes shows the need of more hygienic knowl- 
edge among teachers. Prohibition is putting an end to 
alcoholic stimulants. For a man like Case 10 to work 
hard professionally from 8 A. M. to 4 P. M. and then to 
smoke cigars from 4 p. M. to 6:30 will almost insure his 
having no appetite for a good dinner. 



io8 THE HEALTH OF THE TEACHER 

One who has observed the health-history of very many 
men and women, who has looked on birth and death and 
visited many of the sick, is not likely to list tobacco as 
either a therapeutic aid or a destructive poison as such. 
All the same, three cigars a day, one after each meal, or 
one after the noon meal and two in the evening will do 
far less harm than three cigars from 4 to 6 P. M. Case 
10 had a lit cigar, cigarette or pipe at hand for the three 
years when his internal organs were going to ruin on the 
average twelve hours a day and spent on the average three 
dollars a week on tobacco for himself. Being popular 
and associating with freer spenders than himself, he re- 
ceived more cigars as gifts than he gave away in treating. 

Too little sleep ; irregular hours ; alcohol ; tobacco ; neg- 
lected and excessive eating ; no care at home ; heavy pro- 
fessional work, these destroyed Case 10. He was a 
breaker of physical laws. The tuberculosis germ is ever 
ready to seize upon such persons. 



CHAPTER XIII 
EXCESSIVE ANXIETY ABOUT HEALTH 

CASE II 

CASE ii was a philosopher who died at forty-five 
years of age. He was a Black Kelt by breed, of 
the type so often seen in the priesthood. He was a fault- 
less man in character and conduct, with a merry wit 
and a glad smile. All the intelligent who knew him both 
loved and admired him. They talked about him and 
quoted him. 

Beginning at forty years of age, Case n wore a rain- 
coat and rubber overshoes every day of his life outdoors 
even in summer at noon. Most of the year, he wore 
under the raincoat an overcoat and around his neck a 
muffler. In the snows of winter, he wore the heaviest 
of woolen underwear and a fur cap over his ears, and 
rubber boots with slippers inside. At forty-two years of 
age, he began to drive in a phaeton everywhere, for he was 
afraid to put his feet upon the earth and avoided even 
cold sidewalks. He slept in a warm room at night. 

Case 1 1 spent hours every day studying anatomy, physi- 
ology, hygiene and sanitation and developed several fear- 
psychoses. He was afraid of (a) cold, (b) damp, (c) 
wind, (d) germs. He liked to work with his hands and 
kept a printing press and plant in the first floor of his 
home. He had no children ; but he had an over devoted 
coddling wife. In all, Case 1 1 spent daily perhaps thirty 
minutes out of doors from necessity. If his means had 

109 



no THE HEALTH OF THE TEACHER 

permitted, he would have kept a coachman and a closed 
coupe and had the coupe heated by an electric foot 
warmer twelve months in the year. 

Of course, this process completely bleached the bru- 
nette pigment from the skin of this dark Kelt till it be- 
came like white tissue paper and so sensitive that he could 
not stand a Turkish towel rub after his daily warm bath. 
This bleached skin so failed in its normal functions as to 
overload kidneys and liver and lungs. 

After forty, sweat considerably every day from exer- 
cise or summer heat ; or else die at fifty-five from kidney 
disease ! Such is Nature's law. 

Also, this process softened and thinned all the muscles 
of Case n, internal and external, including the alimentary 
canal. He lost all his teeth from caries and pyorrhea 
despite all his own and his dentist's efforts. He became 
abnormally thin. Six feet tall, he sank to 125 pounds in 
weight. 

His diet was physiologically ideal. 

His colleagues, especially the professors of hygiene and 
of biology, warned and warned him. His physicians 
gave him heart stimulants and tonics. All to no purpose. 
Case II knew that he could not live long; and he did not. 

His wife consented to an autopsy, which showed that 
there was nothing structural that had gone wrong in him. 
Case ii died of inanition. His metabolism failed. His 
embodied spirit had insisted upon being disembodied and, 
of course, won. 

He had been a profound scholar, with the vision of a 
statesman and with the English, both spoken and written, 
of a literary artist. He was a master of the classroom. 
No saner man ever talked upon public affairs ; no wiser 
man could be found to advise others within the field of 
education. Everything queer about him was confined to 
his own notions about himself. 



EXCESSIVE ANXIETY ABOUT HEALTH in 



THE ANCIENT INSTINCTS 

The riddle is easily read. Case n was born in an Irish 
bog upon the wet west coast of Ireland. For thousands 
of years, his race had lived as bog-trotters. In winter, 
their thatched huts were full of the smoke of burning 
peat. Six months in the year, they tasted fog and mist 
in their throats. For thousands of years, his forefathers 
had run around with their feet and legs wrapped in long 
bands of goat skin ; their backs covered with the furry or 
hairy skins or pelts of whatever animals from wolves to 
cows had fallen conveniently to their hands ; and they 
were never warm. This scion of the long Irish line knew 
hygiene and saw the clear air of America ; but he felt the 
damp and chill of the Emerald Isle. Pure, true, uncon- 
querable instinct! 

His was a short-lived race. A younger brother had 
already died of consumption. This man lived to an older 
age than any of his parents or grandparents ; he had no 
hereditary instinct for true old age, hale and hearty. 

In seeking for the key to the poor health of some per- 
sons, one should not forget these ancient instincts, some 
of them long antedating the humanness of man. It may 
be hunger, causing the patient to overeat. It may be 
parsimony and fear of cruel winter and still more cruel 
old age and want. It may be the sex-instinct and lust. 
It may be vanity causing one to spend upon one's front- 
and-back what should be spent upon one's stomach. It 
may be fear, fear of the night; or of the cold; or of 
persecution by enemies, whatever the fear it will not 
reason, nor will it go forth and acquire the facts upon 
which to reason. Instinct causes one to hide in oneself. 
One of the most frequent instincts is the fear of death, 
which unless rationalized may cause death by causing 



ii2 THE HEALTH OF THE TEACHER 

cessation of effort. Man lives best by adventure, which 
releases his powers. For six years, Case n never left 
the town in which he lived even for the venture of a 
summer vacation. 

In the differential individual diagnosis which is essen- 
tial to the right treatment especially of these intellectual 
persons who practice the art of teaching, one should 
often try to get below the habits into the heart where 
the instincts issue their commands. Perhaps an instinct 
that causes as much trouble even as fear is curiosity, 
such as keeps a scholarly teacher up reading all hours of 
the night or working in his laboratory amid fumes that 
stifle breath. There is a limit to the gratification that a 
teacher may permit to his curiosity instinct. 

It happens that in this case under consideraion, the 
man whose fear kept him indoors so much had also an 
excessive curiosity such as required him to read a vast 
amount of literature that a mere glance should have 
showed to him was altogether useless whether for his 
teaching or for his own conduct. Besides the fear that 
almost froze the blood in his body, there was this tor- 
menting curiosity that kept him reading hour on hour at 
night when he should have been abed and asleep. In- 
stincts are useful points of departure, useful sources of 
action; but nothing more. Whom they master in civil- 
ized life, they slay. 



CHAPTER XIV 
SURGICAL RELIEF 

CASE 12 

CASE 12 was that of a high school teacher of English. 
She was a typical Saxon woman, like the German 
Saxons in her social notions rather than the English, born 
for domestic life yet highly educated in a woman's college. 
Her troubles were headaches from eye-strain and a pain- 
ful shrinking within herself due to timidity. Despite her 
parents and family life, she solved these problems and 
became a successful and happy teacher. 

Any one who teaches English well has too many papers 
to read for the good of one's eyes. Case 12 had small 
light blue eyes and by no means vigorous physique. Such 
eyes see well but easily tire. In addition, she had a city 
school superintendent with an excessive zeal for written 
reports of many kinds from all his teachers. Being a 
very conscientious person, anxious to meet all require- 
ments, Case 12 prepared these daily reports in an artistic 
and finished manner; from which cause, she was highly 
valued by the main office. Finding herself among those 
singled out for especial praise and for extra duties ac- 
cordingly, such as faculty adviser to the high school 
paper, made Case 12 actually ill. Her parents, how- 
ever, were delighted that by the third year of her teaching 
she was recognized as displaying exceptional talent. 

Case 12 promptly resorted to an excellent oculist who 
corrected her eye astigmatism and forwarded her to an 
expert in woman's diseases. The second physician found 

113 



ii 4 THE HEALTH OF THE TEACHER 

that she needed a slight surgical operation, which he per- 
formed forthwith. Then the two physicians, having 
heard about these teacher's reports, visited the school 
authorities and protested against them. The young city 
superintendent, university-trained, was taken by surprise 
and capitulated. Soon afterwards, a man of more expe- 
rience and less education succeeded him; and reports 
were reduced to a minimum. 

The parents and friends of Case 12 noticed a rapid 
and gratifying change in her disposition toward life. She 
ceased to be timid. She ceased to have headaches. She 
took more interest in social affairs, and much more inter- 
est in her own health and strength. At the end of her 
first eight years of service, she took a leave of absence 
without salary and went travelling in our own country. 
A long illness of a brother from tuberculosis, with partial 
recovery by wise therapy and life in the Adirondack^ and 
later in Arizona, taught Case 12 the importance of not 
getting so far down in bodily vigor as to be an easy prey 
to that scourge of humanity and specially severe and fre- 
quent curse of teachers. 

Fifteen years after these treatments, Case 12 was the 
picture of good health ; body coefficient 2.25 ; pulse 78 ; 
temperature 98.7 at noon. And she wore her spectacles 
good-naturedly. She had quite forgotten, so she ex- 
plained, that she had almost broken down at twenty-four 
years of age. " One warning was enough," she said, with 
a smile. The high school in which she teaches has but 
twelve pupils on the average to one teacher. The mini- 
mum salary of a teacher is $1,000; the maximum $1800 
(not including the principal). The building in which she 
teaches is commodious, sanitary, modern. The sessions 
are from 9 A. M. to 12 A. M. and from i :i5 p. M. to 3. 
Conditions are favorable to all teachers, as, of course, 
they should be. 



CHAPTER XV 
SCHOOL EPIDEMICS 

CASE 13 

THE double kindergarten in the public school con- 
cerned in Case 13 was a fine, large, sunny affair 
where every one was always happy. There was a good 
piano, and the floor was kept remarkably clean. It was 
scrubbed once a week, and brushed every afternoon. The 
tone of the entire situation was cheerful, even joyous. 
Nor was the number of children, averaging 45, exces- 
sive for a double kindergarten with two healthy, well- 
trained kindergartners, required to be at school in all 
only three hours a day. The session itself was from 9 
A.M. to 11:20. The women had fair salaries for the 
period, about 1900, viz. $600 and $500. 

But the children ! They represented more than a dozen 
different nationalities, Italians, Hungarians, Poles, 
Russians, Jews, Germans, Swedes, Dutch, American 
negroes of several colors, French Canadians, colonial 
Yankees, English immigrants, and others. The room 
was more than a kaleidoscope ; it was a current of tran- 
sients. 

Several times a week, this room was carefully sprayed 
with disinfectant from a big atomizer. But as these 
kindergartners explained, no sooner had the mothers 
(who met there every week or two) learned how to keep 
their children clean than they moved out of the district 
or the children were promoted to first grade, and new 
and ignorant mothers with more dirty children took their 
places. 



n6 THE HEALTH OF THE TEACHER 

One day visiting the school the city superintendent 
found a big boy carefully sewed up for the winter by his 
mother who had sent a note as follows, viz. " Don't you 
try again to wash him. I fixed him right. My man say 
not touch John." The city superintendent took the boy 
into the principal's office and, despite violent resistance, 
took off all his clothing and gave him a perfect bath with 
a vigorous rub down. That afternoon, both parents 
rushed to the schoolhouse and tried to find the superin- 
tendent, loudly declaiming to the principal that the boy 
had never been washed before and must never be washed 
again lest he " catch cold and get dead." 

Many a glorious transformation in character, conduct, 
hygiene and personal appearance was wrought by the 
kindergartners there, battling against the ignorance of 
European field peasants become American city factory 
workers. 

Then came an epidemic of measles in virulent form. 
The germs seemed strangely efficient. -Even the adults of 
the foreign ward had hard cases. Though not a single 
victim died, many were ill a long time and had serious 
sequelae, such as running of the ears and badly inflamed 
eyes. 

Case 13 was the kindergarten assistant, age twenty- 
one, body coefficient 2.10, of Scotch-Saxon heredity. The 
older woman kept her throat well sprayed with mild dis- 
infectants and kept her hands off the clothes of the 
children. 

Whether Case 13 caught the infection from a child just 
coming down with it or from one released too early from 
quarantine or otherwise, is unknown ; but there was a ter- 
rific onset and a long, long battle for life and a recovery 
that required half a year. Measles? Yes, measles. 
Possibly, the measles were complicated with something 
else; but at any rate, measles was the carrier. 



SCHOOL EPIDEMICS 117 

Sometimes, the teacher catches whooping-cough; 
sometimes, the pneumonic plague (influenza) ; sometimes, 
diphtheria; sometimes, even ^ tuberculosis from her 
charges. It is true that teachers catch infectious dis- 
eases from children less often than is popularly supposed. 
One of Nature's rules helps the adult who teaches chil- 
dren; for adults seldom catch diseases from children. 
Statistics indicate that the chance of catching most dis- 
eases from persons not half-grown by persons full-grown 
is but one-third that of catching diseases from others 
full-grown. Probably, teachers catch infectious diseases 
from children through repeated and cumulative infections 
so that when taken ill, they become serious cases, need- 
ing great care. 

What is the prophylaxis indicated ? 



DISEASES OF THE CROWD 

All infectious diseases are herd or crowd diseases. Do 
not allow the children to play too near together or close 
to oneself. Wear gloves when handling their clothes, 
wash face and hands well with soap and hot water and 
spray throat and nose well after school both morning 
and afternoon. Keep the lungs filled with fresh air as 
much as possible. And by all means go to bed and get a 
physician when one has the first symptom of any epidemic 
disease. 

As for contagious diseases, one may get them as readily 
from a child as from another adult. 

In a schoolhouse with seventeen rooms and eighteen 
teachers with over 700 children, one spring, there were 
over 200 cases at one time of the following diseases, 
viz. diphtheria, tonsilitis, pneumonia, grippe, sore 
throat (?), colds-in-the-head (?) and whooping-cough. 

Before these diseases had run their courses over 300 



u8 THE HEALTH OF THE TEACHER 

pupils with three teachers had been ill. Two children 
died, one of diphtheria, the other of pneumonia. 

This schoolhouse had three floors in use, seven rooms 
on the first floor, eight on the second and two on the third. 
There were two daily school assemblies, the first floor 
making one, the other two floors another. All but two of 
these 300 cases occurred in the rooms upon the first 
floor, the two exceptions being cases in the same families 
Vith children upon the first floor. In respect, to the 
teachers, all three cases occurred at the first rush of the 
epidemic; and they may have taken the infections from 
outside the school. However, be this as it may, the his- 
tory of this school epidemic of throat and lung troubles 
shows that it was not " in the air " but was directly due 
to human contact. 

The school authorities reacted vigorously. Every room 
was thoroughly fumigated with formaldehyde from Fri- 
day to Monday for four successive weeks. All the wood- 
work, floors and desks were well washed with soap and 
hot water and wiped over with an antiseptic solution. 
There was effective quarantining of every home that had 
a case. Some days only one child in ten or twelve was 
at school upon the first floor, while the attendance up- 
stairs was reduced only by the absence of children in the 
same family with illness. 

The teachers were vigilant to see that none of the 
force should get the infection in the characteristic return 
a few weeks later. No such return occurred. 

Some epidemics do not cease until they have made two 
or three quick tours of the world, that is, within two or 
three years. In these tours, they spiral and eddy among 
the various peoples in cities and towns and countryside 
until every person has been tried out to discover whether 
he is immune or a. victim. 

It is a fair question whether any process within the 



SCHOOL EPIDEMICS 119 

opportunities of the teachers and medical inspectors and 
nurses engaged in public education can ever completely 
defeat these epidemics among children. Finally, the race 
will defeat them, but resort must be had to expert sani- 
tarians and to stringent police measures quite beyond 
the time, the authority and the scientific preparation of 
teachers. From the viewpoint of the general human wel- 
fare in which all society is concerned, it is expedient that 
the two functions of teaching and of public hygiene 
should be separated after the elementary stages are 
passed. Civilization is mainly specialization. 

So much as this, nevertheless, is advisable : viz. that 
teachers should use all reasonable personal precautions 
at the first sign of the coming of any infectious disease, 
whether whooping-cough, measles, scarlet fever, pneu- 
monic plague or anything else; and that cities, counties 
and villages should have competent sanitarians in charge 
of all public health problems. Teachers should advocate 
health officers and -support their work enthusiastically and 
intelligently. The mind of every teacher should be ap- 
preciative of everything truly scientific. 

The reasonable precautions to be taken, so far as they 
were known in 1900, were then -taken. The present epoch 
is yet wiser; and in school and college, we are making 
ever more and more successful resistance to the invasions 
of infectious germs. 



CHAPTER XVI 

IGNORANCE OF SEX ABERRATIONS IN 
OTHERS 

CASES 14 AND 15 

CASES 14 and 15 turn upon the same need: that 
young women shall have a rational knowledge of 
sex-aberrations in defective and unbalanced men. 

The first of these cases was that of a slender young 
woman teaching in a rural school with a zeal utterly 
oblivious of the real boys and girls with whom she was 
dealing. One of these boys was fourteen years old, of 
Italian race. She was blond Saxon, eight years older 
chronologically. He was in the Third Reader class. He 
would linger after school almost every day. At times, 
he was insubordinate, but usually he was amiable and 
dependent. Often, he dogged her footsteps to her farm 
boarding home. 

Late one winter afternoon, he followed her from the 
village post office. Just what occurred thereafter will 
never be known. Her body was found in the woods 
some hundreds of yards from the highroad. She had 
perhaps tried -to run away from him. At the trial, there 
was displayed a heavy wrench wrapped in flannel with 
which her skull had been fractured. Her clothing was 
badly torn as if in struggle. What was evident was that 
this boy had conceived a violent sex-passion for this 
young woman and meant to knock her unconscious though 
not to kill her. 

She herself, of course, had never imagined that his 

120 



IGNORANCE OF SEX 121 

lingering about her and his excessive interest in her were 
due to the criminal instinct of lust ripening into assault. 
She knew nothing of the sex-life beyond the monthly ill- 
ness of woman. 

The second of these cases was that of a brunette in a 
city school. She hated the bachelor principal, who con- 
stantly begged her to marry him. It was, however, her 
custom to remain after school sometimes for hours cor- 
recting papers and preparing the work of the next day. 
In the city system, the rule prevailed that no salary was 
raised without the recommendation of the next higher 
officer. Being oblivious to all sex-phenomena, Case 14 
tried to please her principal as a faithful teacher. That 
anything serious would befall herself was wholly outside 
the range of her imagination. 

Of course, the personal loathing that she felt for the 
man and her excessive diligence as a teacher wore out 
her nervous strength and resistance. Her ruin followed. 
Worry had caused a devolution of the powers of rational 
self-control and of resistance to the will of another. 
One Friday evening she failed to return home. Four 
days afterwards her body was found embalmed in the 
basement of an establishment run by two physicians of 
the city. The principal and the physicians fled, but after 
weeks of search all three were found and brought before 
the grand jury. The evidence showed that the young 
woman herself had insisted upon the criminal abortion 
and that the man in the case had begged her to marry him. 
In this case, contrary to nearly all such cases, the man was 
of independent means, able to " live respectably without 
work," and the woman had a good home with parents of 
large means. Poverty had nothing to do with either of 
them. Blind lust and blind innocence explained the whole 
case. 

This whole story (like the other) is fully reported in 



122 THE HEALTH OF THE TEACHER 

the court annals. The Italian moron was duly executed ; 
the two physicians and the principal got off on technicali- 
ties of the law, but, of course, left the city of their joint 
and several crimes, doomed to lifelong ostracism by the 
decent. The principal was a hypermoron, a first class 
fool; the dead woman was a highly intelligent victim of 
her own ignorance of a tabooed subject of fatal impor- 
tance to herself. 

There are modes of relief from such situations. The 
rural school teacher should have refused admission to 
the school to the overgrown moron ; and quit teaching if 
the school directors did not sustain her discipline. The 
urban teacher should have reported the truth about the 
wooing of herself after school by the loathed principal 
to the city school authorities higher up, who would have 
transferred her to another school, or, better, have imme- 
diately discharged the man from service. 

Case 14 was followed two years later by two similar 
cases, though without fatalities, and in these cases the 
men involved were committed to the penitentiary ; it bore 
fruit for the general good, but at terrible price. 



THE DANGERS OF FATAL INNOCENCE 

Both of these young women, they were twenty-two 
and twenty-five years of age respectively, failed in 
knowledge of physiology and hygiene because they had 
never seen books or even articles or had oral instruction 
as to sex-psychology. The world is moving along better 
now. Experienced women teachers can apply general 
tests of abilities that distinguish idiots, imbeciles, the 
choreic, the epileptic, the feeble-minded, the moron, sul- 
len, amiable and superior, from one another and from 
normal children, youth and adults of the several ages. 
Just now, we are going through an epoch of astonishment 



IGNORANCE OF SEX 123 

over the prevalency of the venereal diseases and of their 
sequelae. In the years ahead, we shall awaken to the 
need of proper instruction in sex-hygiene to cure the sex- 
aberrations that almost invariably precede the vices and 
crimes due to irrational and uncontrolled sex-conduct. 

In some cases, unhappily, the isolation of the few adult 
teachers among many children, or even of one teacher 
alone with youth among whom may be one sexually de- 
ranged, becomes an active peril by developing an inner 
morbidness that to be conquered must first be under- 
stood. Here wise teaching in youth is the true prophy- 
laxis, short-circuiting experience and often actually pre- 
venting it. Every soul perhaps is the seat of all instincts 
and of all passions, the arena of the struggles of a uni- 
versal human nature ; but as we have been taught of old, 
we may anticipate in the constructive imagination the 
possible outcomes of alternative courses and by ration- 
alizing our thought and emotion save ourselves from al- 
most every trouble. 



CHAPTER XVII 

TOO SUCCESSFUL AND OBLIGING 
CASE 16 

THIS little man was considered the very best teacher 
in a large city. Next to the city school superin- 
tendent and the high school principals, he drew the high- 
est salary by a special rule of the board of education. 
It was so freely admitted that he was the one supremely 
competent class teacher that no objection was made to his 
being paid this exceptional salary. He was the model for 
all other high school teachers. This salary was half 
again higher than that of even the grammar school men 
principals. He was offered many college professorships 
but declined them one and all. Though he taught Homer 
in Greek and Virgil in Latin and the history of English 
Literature as his regular program; being really head 
of these departments, he did not rank as head of any de- 
partment. Literally, he could teach anything; any lan- 
guage, any science, any mathematics. 

Also, he was the church organist for the most promi- 
nent of all the congregations in the city. 

Also, he gave private lessons at his home in music or in 
languages or in anything else upon occasion. 

His only recreation was caring for his horse and hi<- 
garden. He never worked from July I to August 31 ; 
but he worked on schedule every day from September i 
to June 30. He had a large family of children. 

At forty-eight years of age, " something broke." He 
had saved some money, and his wife took him to a private 

124 



TOO SUCCESSFUL AND OBLIGING 125 

sanitarium to recover. After six months, he resumed 
work. Then " something worse broke." The authorities 
then took him to a public asylum for the insane. He re- 
covered and wished to go home. With an attendant, he 
went upon a train. While the train was going full speed, 
he quietly slipped to the rear car and jumped off. He 
was picked up dead. He was commonly called a suicide, 
but the truth was simply that he was " insane " ; he, didn't 
know what he was doing. Probably, the noise of the 
train hurt his feelings, and he wished to get away from it 
quickly. The medical men all agreed that " structurally 
there was nothing the matter with him." Functionally, 
Case 1 6 had these several difficulties, viz. : 

1. His auditory tract was sore; worn out; he hated 
noise ; could not listen any more. 

2. His vocal organs and speech centers were worn out. 
He could not say what he wished to say, and refused to 
try. 

3. His eyes were worn out, and he hated light. 

4. The alimentary canal was too poorly nourished to be 
willing to function. From end to end, it was torpid and 
anemic. 

Yet this little man had an excellent knowledge of human 
physiology; he often talked to the school very intelli- 
gently about it. 

OVERDOING KINDNESS TO OTHERS 

With a pale skin, though not thin, with beautiful blue 
eyes, with a fine, rich, musical voice, with exquisite man- 
ners, sympathetic, alert, honorable to the least detail, this 
good father and admirable teacher won universal social 
favor but misconstrued his relation to humanity. He 
misconceived, as do many teachers, the extent of his own- 
duties to others. He was neither an egotist, working for 



126 THE HEALTH OF THE TEACHER 

his own pocket or for fame and power, nor so conceited 
as to imagine that he could do things better than anyone 
else. On the contrary, he was humble and modest; 
obliging, too obliging. There is a line in Edwin Arnold's 
"Light of Asia" where the Buddha teaches: "Who 
needs me, commands me." Case 16 believed and prac- 
tised this. He was anything but a weak man. He was 
perfectly willing to say " No," and stick to it ; but he con- 
sidered it his duty to do whatever seemed to need doing. 
All the advertising of himself was done by others. The 
trouble with him was not, as some imagined, the unintel- 
ligent indefatigability of the habit-minded hypermoron 
plased in a position above his mediocre abilities to fill. 
Case 1 6 was a natural humorist and understood himself 
as a mind quite well. 

Nevertheless, he did not understand himself as a human 
body, and to him -the commandment to take one day of 
rest in seven did not reach his will. 

Nature does not build men to work -three hundred and 
three consecutive days in the year for thirty years. If 
Case 1 6 had done no evening work five evenings a week 
and had rested all day Saturday, he might have lived the 
alloted span of three score years and ten. Half-Saxon 
and for the rest a mixture of half the races upon the 
British Isles, he failed in one item of what proved to be 
fatal importance; -knowing how and when to rest, to 
do nothing. 

It was Walt Whitman who wrote, " I loaf and invite 
my soul. I sit at my ease observing a spear of summer 
grass." This spirit of knowing how to sit at ease comes 
by heredity to the naturally healthy. Others may learn 
it by experience. Those who have it not go insane or 
die young, or through illness, learn wisdom. 

The need of daily leisure is perhaps the only excuse for 
smoking tobacco in pipe or cigar; this takes time and 



TOO SUCCESSFUL AND OBLIGING 127 

thought and a measure of indolence. Of course, some 
hustlers while hustling smoke tobacco; but to enjoy a 
.cigar, an idle half hour is the desideratum. Hustling 
through a good cigar is a contradiction in terms like 
bolting in single gulps a box of chocolate candies or talk- 
ing out an opera. 

A much larger proportion of women teachers than of 
men make the same mistake as did Case 16. They even 
drive themselves out of bed in the morning with a hot 
cup of clear black coffee. They drive themselves back 
to the classrooms in the afternoon with a hot cup of black 
tea. Case 16 did neither. But he did drive himself to 
duty seven days in the week with verses that are quite as 
dangerous to the health as tea or coffee. These are the 
verses that he often recited to his boys and girls ; and the 
music of which he often played at church, viz. 

" Fill brightest hours with labor ; 
Rest comes sure and soon ; 
Give every flying minute 
Something to keep in store ; 
Work till the last beam fadeth 
When man works no more." 

There was no therapy that could cure Case 16; and 
there never will be any. If he had been cured, he would 
have gone to work again just as hard. What he needed 
was a different set of ideas, early in life ; and in this set 
of ideas, he needed one which said, " Six days, sunrise to 
sunset, shalt thou labor, at various tasks, resting betimes 
for meals, and not one hour more in any seven." 



CHAPTER XVIII 
A VICTIM OF TOO MUCH " SANITATION " 

CASE 17 

CASE 17 was one of the healthiest women who ever 
began to teach and one of the most beautiful and 
sensible. Still, she had peculiarities, as who has not? 

Among her peculiarities was a very great interest in 
health and sanitation, such an interest as usually leads a 
woman to become a physician herself or at least a trained 
nurse or at the very least a teacher of physical culture in 
the schools; but almost immediately upon her entrance 
into teaching, this lady became the special instructor of a 
class of incorrigibles. 

She had a room in one of the finest schoolhouses then 
in existence in America, as scientific in all its appoint- 
ments as the science of the period at the beginning of the 
twentieth century permitted. Of course, the room had 
a big supply flue and a big exhaust vent ; and the building 
had great fans to drive the fresh air in and to draw out 
the foul air. Also, of course, the windows were never 
opened lest this should interfere with the ventilating 
system. 

In her room for these incorrigibles, the teacher had a 
fine outfit of benches, tools, books, indeed everything that 
she thought of as desirable. There was upon her desk a 
beautiful, big statue in plaster of one who was then a 
famous prize fighter. Some of the boys greatly admired 
this work of art. 

One day the teacher contracted a very heavy cold, and 

128 



TOO MUCH " SANITATION " 129 

saw the physician who was the favorite in that neighbor- 
hood among the teachers. He kept her out of school two 
days, and she promptly got well, very well. 

Then she returned to school and to the usual program 
of her life. But she was soon sick again, and this time 
developed a bad cough. In a week, however, by staying 
out of school and obeying her physician, she was once 
more well and vigorous. 

A month later, she became really very ill. It looked 
like a case of pneumonia ; but it proved to be only a bron- 
chial trouble with neuralgia of the face and neck. This 
time, the physician, after his patient had recovered, took 
the notion, of going into the schoolhouse to discover 
whether or not something there was not the compelling 
cause for this series of disturbances. 

What he actually found was this, in full, viz. 

1. The teacher had formed the habit of standing beside 
the statue when doing much of her teaching and that the 
statue was directly under the big draft of air that came 
into the room from the warm flue. 

2. She went at each recess time into the basement and 
stood at a point to direct the play of her boys where it so 
happened that a strong draft blew down the staircase. 



REFORMING THE SCHOOL SYSTEM 

A little computation showed him that the teacher was 
being subjected three- fourths of her time daily to heavy 
drafts, one cold, the other warm. 

He persuaded the school authorities to put a galvanized 
iron deflector over the warm air flue; he ordered the 
teacher to move her desk and statue to a different part of 
the room ; he secured relief for her from being on duty at 
that point in the basement at recess time ; and he illumi- 
nated the school architect and the board of education suf- 



130 THE HEALTH OF THE TEACHER 

ficiently to abate partly the order never to open a window. 

In that reformed schoolroom and schoolhouse, this 
teacher went on teaching for two years longer, with never 
the slightest difficulty. She then went to another city to 
take charge of a group of classes for incorrigiWes and 
defectives, and when last heard from, six years after- 
wards, she reported that she had never needed to consult a 
physician for herself again. But she styles herself the 
" victim of too much sanitation," and thereby the means 
of saving weaker women from perhaps fatal illnesses. 

Do not stand long in a breeze; it may bring on rheu- 
matism or a fever, or worse. 



CHAPTER XIX 
OVEREATING 
CASES 1 8 TO 21 

LET us call these four men Cases 18 to 21. All had 
the same trouble. One was under observation from 
the ages of seventy to eighty years; the second from 
thirty-five to fifty; the third from thirty-one to thirty- 
four; and the fourth the same. All are living at this 
date. Yet their trouble is often fatal. All take very 
good care of themselves under constant medical advice. 

Cases 1 8 to 21 enjoy eating. Though criticized by 
others, they like to sit for hours and eat and eat, at first 
gorging, then slowing down. They are the hungry sav- 
ages of a very ancient race, who have reappeared. They 
are upon the fine edge that delimits yet joins the muscu- 
lar motor and the vital corpulent. Were they vital cor- 
pulent, they would have still more somesthesia and 
would know that their stomachs were full, and they 
would then automatically stop gating. Were they mus- 
cular motor, they would stop when fed and tread away 
heavily to heavy work ; for then they would be kinesthe- 
siac and would enjoy work even more than eating. But 
they have the qualities of both temperaments, some good, 
some bad. Therefore, Cases 1 8 to 21 overeat and under- 
work, yet make blood, more blood, lots of it. Their 
physicians say that they make too much blood. Also, 
their livers secrete too much bile. All of them have too 
swift digestions and too loose and frequent movements 
due to floods of bile. 

131 



132 THE HEALTH OF THE TEACHER 

Cases 18 to 21 have some days when their suprarenal 
glands, gall bladders and hearts behave badly ; thereafter, 
they are low in spirits, often anticipating immediate dis- 
solution in early graves. They get angry, but only on 
great provocation; being otherwise, generally, too good- 
natured for their own good. Their bodies victimize them. 
All are constantly under medical treatment and have at 
last learned much, though not complete, self-control. 
Their physicians keep them on fruits, toast and eggs, po- 
tatoes and other vegetables, soups and light foods. No 
milk or tea or chocolate, very little coffee, no tobacco. 
Cereals and meats are partaken of in small amounts but 
once a day. They eat sixteen or eighteen meals a week, 
not twenty-one, cutting out Sunday supper and several 
lunches. 

On this basis, every one of them is a great worker, a 
hustler, very influential among men, women and children. 
Once in awhile, they take a meal away from home and 
fall down by overeating. Also once in awhile, they really 
do suffer from undereating, and their physicians increase 
the intake slightly for a few days. 

In the years to come, either the physicians or the sur- 
geons will discover how to cure these cases ; perhaps even 
how in youth to prevent their development. Such men 
as these are physically out of place in schoolhouses and 
in college halls. Education is not the life for them. 
But for this very cause, they make highly valuable spe- 
cial contributions. All such cases are very human per- 
sons, full of feelings, passions, energies, errors ; mostly 
kind-hearted, seldom persistent in endeavor but never 
feeble. They do not understand others well, but they 
usually pity them. Theirs is the temperament easily first 
for oratory and politics. Some women have it. Daniel 
Webster had it ; but Theodore Roosevelt was full muscu- 
lar motor, and Benjamin Franklin was vital corpulent. 



OVEREATING 133 

This is the temperament for school principals and for 
college presidents, for pastors of great churches and for 
capitalists, who do not directly manage business affairs. 

Unfortunately for themselves, men of this tempera- 
ment are not usually self-conscious enough deliberately 
early in life to estimate the effects of a probable future 
environment due to any particular occupation; but set- 
ting themselves vigorously into one perhaps contra-in- 
dicated in their cases, they may become within a few 
years the victims of their own mistakes. They are not, 
however, so set in their own courses as to be incapable 
of correction by others ; and any physician or fellow edu- 
cator who turns the man of this muscular motor tem- 
perament out of the ordinary classroom either into ex- 
ecutive work or into some occupation for which he is 
temperamentally indicated does both him and the world 
a true service. Sometimes the man saves himself by 
awaking to the meaning of the familiar lines of Robert 
Burns, and acquires the power to see himself as others 
see him. Here again a word to the wise may suffice. 



PART II 
THE RATIONALE OF HEALTH CONTROL 



" The goal of human evolution seems to be a race of 
vigorous, healthy, well-balanced, whole men and women, 
who will have well-grown, fully developed, strong and 
tough bodies. Nature framed her bill of compulsory 
education long before man appeared upon the earth." 

Man in the Light of Evolution. Chap. VII. TYLER. 



CHAPTER XX 
SLEEP 

GENERAL STATEMENT 

HEALTH-CONTROL should consider: 
i. Sleep 

2. Diet 

3. Exercise 

4. Clothing 

5. Recreation and companionship. 

6. Bathing 

7. Occupation and associates. 

8. Shelter 

9. Habitat 

10. Instincts, habits, ideals, etc. 

This list is not in logical order but according to physio- 
logical rank for most persons. 

SLEEP 

Rule One in all hygiene is Go to bed early enough to 
awaken of one's own motion. While the teacher, like 
most other persons including even " the independent 
farmer," is a slave to clock and calendar, he has control of 
the hour of bedtime (which many workers in other lines 
do not have) unless, of course, he teaches also in evening 
school. Every one should go to bed as a habit so early 
as to be sure not to need an alarm clock. Unfortunately, 
all through America parents are accustomed to awaken 
children, whereas no child should ever be awakened unless 



138 THE HEALTH OF THE TEACHER 

the house takes fire ! This habit of going to bed so late 
as to necessitate being awakened is ingrained by the 
childhood training. For our health, we should rely abso- 
lutely upon the periodicities of the human body to put us 
to sleep and to wake us up. 

Again : not less unfortunately, schools must open at 
8 .'30 or 9 :oo A. M., and teachers must be on hand thirty 
minutes earlier. Consequently, very many teachers are 
alarm clock bondsmen, not being wise enough hygienically 
to go to bed earlier and still earlier if necessary until one 
does wake up early enough to have ample time to dress 
and eat and to travel unhurriedly to school. 

In importance, sleep far transcends all other physio- 
logical functions, far. " Kind Nature's sweet restorer, 
blessed sleep." Those who do not sleep long, soundly and 
well are pitiable. 

Sleep follows some very interesting laws of its own. 
In most persons, it is deepest (that is, the greatest exter- 
nal disturbance is required to awaken the sleeper to con- 
sciousness) about the end of the second hour. It is 
quite shallow by the seventh hour, the " beauty sleep." 
In some others, however, it becomes deepest by the end 
of the first hour. In still others, it is very light until the 
fifth or sixth hour when it becomes heavy. Some per- 
sons, though quite healthy, awaken two or even three 
times in the night, but never lie awake. This means that 
sleep visits them in waves rather than in one long tide. 

In all persons, sleep is from two to four times as deep 
in midwinter as in midsummer. In most persons, it is 
considerably deeper in midspring than in midautumn. In 
all normal persons it follows the rule of being lightest on 
hot nights and heaviest in below zero weather. It is 
much deeper on quiet than on windy nights. It is several 
times deeper on a cloudy night than when indulged in 
(as it often should be) upon a sunny afternoon. 



SLEEP 139 



CONDITIONS FAVORABLE TO SLEEP 

In order to sleep well, all light should be screened and 
shaded out of the room, even starlight, and plenty of 
fresh outdoor air should be moving in it. Better still, 
sleep outdoors in a sleeping porch. (This rule holds for 
all persons except the anemic sedentary, the frail ideo- 
motor, some invalids, and the very aged.) 

In winter, clothing upon the bed should be light in 
weight but very warm. It is well to have a hot-water 
bottle for the feet (or hot bricks or cut stone or the 
equivalent) when one sleeps outdoors in a sleeping porch. 
A fur robe is entirely proper. Some persons need and 
should wear hoods over their heads. But the very pur- 
pose of such a porch is defeated unless it can be kept dark 
until the proper time to rise. That purpose is to estab- 
lish deep, long sleep. 

Most persons sleep at least an hour too little and keep 
awake an hour too much. Try getting to bed an hour 
earlier. Better still, take a nap of an hour, changing all 
one's clothes, every afternoon. 

There was a case of a man nervously wrecked from 
sorrow, trouble, toil and physical pain (too blind to read 
or to see human faces), kept going by doses of codeine, in 
despair from neuralgia of the face and from insomnia at 
night, a man who went from physician to physician and 
grew worse, but who suddenly set out to change his 
sleep efforts. He gave up his work, went to bed at eleven 
o'clock every morning ; got up after an hour or so ; went 
to bed again at four o'clock ; got up after a while, and a 
third time daily went to bed at the proper hour of nine- 
thirty o'clock. He arose at six-thirty. For ten days, he 
drilled himself in this fashion without benefit. Then sud- 
denly he found himself for a week sleeping heavily from 
eleven o'clock to one and even two. In just six weeks, 



i 4 o THE HEALTH OF THE TEACHER 

he was sleeping one hour every afternoon and eight 
straight hours every night; and his neuralgia was all 
gone, never to return. He lost his place, but he saved 
his life ; and got a better place. Fortunately, his family 
humored him in this experiment, caring more to have the 
head of the house get well in any way whatever than to 
pursue the foolish American notion of " one sleep a day, 
and only at night then," as a universal law. 

Truth is that the sleep-requirements of men are very 
much like those of dogs, of cats, and of cattle ; not like 
those of horses. The dog sleeps, wakes and runs ; eats, 
sleeps, wakes and runs some more ; his natural inclination 
is to repeat the cycle three or four times daily. The nat- 
ural inclination of man when freed from the chains of 
civilization is to have a three-cycle day; but he gets on 
beautifully with a two-cycle day, and usually well enough 
with one long sleep in the dark. 

The way to stay out of a coffin is to stay longer in bed. 

Of course, there are exceptions. Now and then a man 
sleeps too long and stays abed after perfectly awaking. 
The rule is to get up as soon as one is awake. Awaken- 
ing takes various lengths of time for various persons ; 
from three -to fifteen minutes for healthy persons. 

Any man or woman who finds himself taking his morn- 
ing bath without being aware that he (or she) made any 
effort to get up may consider this as the finest evidence 
of being delightfully well. It should happen six days in 
seven in the life of every man and woman. An occa- 
sional need to rouse oneself to get up does no harm to 
the person provided that he is generally down to break- 
fast before realizing that a new day has begun. 

A good deep mattress ; nice, quiet springs ; brass bed- 
stead ; and eiderdown quilt ; none of these is essential to 
good sleep. A healthy person muscularly fatigued can 
make a good night of it upon a canvas cot. 



SLEEP 141 

It is disadvantageous for two women teachers to 
occupy the same room and wholly undesirable for them to 
occupy the same bed at night even for twin sisters. 
Far better, the 7'x 10' hall bedroom for one than the 
i4/x 1 6' first story for two unless this front room has an 
alcove and wall space for two three-quarters beds. 

Shut out drafts with screens, shawls, or draperies. By 
all means, close the hot air register. Never use a gas 
stove in a bedroom within an hour of going to bed; the 
free carbon monoxide is a direct enemy of the nasal and 
lung membranes. 

In order t;o induce sleep, many teachers find it bene- 
ficial to take "an evening walk about an hour before bed- 
time. It should not be too long, for its main purpose is 
simply to freshen the blood and quicken the respiration. 

Men teachers who find it necessary to smoke a cigar or 
pipe just before going to bed should consult a competent 
family physician not less than fifty years old as to his 
experience with neurasthenes who smoke tobacco just 
before going to bed. 

A case in point was in Paris. The patient was fifty- 
four years of age. He reported that he could not sleep 
unless he smoked for an hour or so before retiring. This 
man smoked outdoors. He had insomnia and heart pal- 
pitation at this stage but was of good weight. He was 
advised not to smoke after seven o'clock and to get into 
bed by nine-thirty. But he gravely protested. Seven 
months later, he was dead in total nervous collapse, 
not caused, of course, by the smoking but in no way 
cured by it. 

Another case was that of one of the most famous of 
American educators. He had a slight attack of paralysis 
and limped accordingly with one foot. He took to drink- 
ing one cup of coffee at eleven- thirty every night as 'a 
night cap, a sleep wooer, a bracer against insomnia. Five 



142 THE HEALTH OF THE TEACHER 

months after beginning this habit, a second stroke carried 
him away. He was then sixty years of age ; body coeffi- 
cient at death 2.6. 

Nicotine and caffeine interfere with sleep more than 
alcohol does. No drug whatever should ever be taken by 
a working teacher after seven o'clock in the evening, not 
even chocolate. Also, it is very objectionable to eat 
candy, which seriously interferes with all sleep of adults 
by overloading the liver and kidneys with the unnecessary 
duty of secreting glycogen. 

There are many pitfalls and snares into invalidism. 
Half of them offer temptations against sleep. Only the 
child, who naturally sleeps so well, and the childish con- 
sider an hour stolen from sleep really gained. The wise 
know that it may be paid for many times over. 



MIND AND BRAIN TISSUE 

Memory is a function of brain tissue. The psycholo- 
gists give a score of rules to improve memory. The 
physiologist has one : sound sleep and plenty of it revives 
tissue. 

Judgment is a function of brain-tissue. The psycholo- 
gists are wise enough to understand that they can develop 
no rules to improve judgment. The physiologist has one 
rule : sound sleep quiets and feeds the cells that think. 

Teachers who desire good memories and good judg- 
ment will give their bodies plenty of sleep. 

WAKEFULNESS OR INSOMNIA 

As for those teachers who have already developed more 
or less tendency to wakefulness when they should be 
asleep, but who seriously desire to remedy the situation 
and are willing to do much in order to secure sound 



SLEEP 143 

sleep, the first recommendation of any hygienist should 
be, of course, that they should visit a competent physician 
for diagnosis and treatment. Insomnia of any extent or 
kind is a pathological symptom. Self -administered 
changes of regimen seldom do any good and self- 
administered doses of drugs generally do some harm. 

The suggestions that follow are meant solely for teach- 
ers who find themselves wakeful once in a while, who 
generally sleep well. Even good sleepers sometimes get 
out of step as it were and cannot sleep. 

There are many varieties of these simple cases. 

One variety find that they have slept perhaps an hour 
or two; wake up; and cannot go to sleep again. They 
roll and toss for hours. The trouble perhaps is a noc- 
turnal heightened consciousness. 

Sometimes, a bowl of crackers and warm milk solves 
the problem. There are various reasons why. The busi- 
ness of going to the pantry and getting the supplies and 
of warming up the milk is part of the explanation. Im- 
mediately upon getting to bed again, sleep comes. 

Sometimes, getting up and taking five or ten minutes of 
light calisthenics with strong exhalations of the breath 
works the miracle of inducing sleep. 

The milder business of muscular exercise of hands and 
feet and trunk in bed may serve the purpose. 

Trying to read oneself to sleep; smoking; taking a 
drink of alcoholic stimulant ; eating candy ; counting to 
1,000 or more: not one of these is physiologically cor- 
rect or likely to be beneficial. Often, they make the 
situation worse. 

Another variety find that, much to their surprise, they 
do not go to sleep as usual at once after getting to bed. 
An hour passes, and they are more wakeful than ever. 
Sometimes, a warm bath (99) helps such a person. 

When the wakefulness is due to overeating or to an 



144 THE HEALTH OF THE TEACHER 

exceptionally emotional evening, it is sometimes helpful to 
dress and go for a walk in the fresh air. 

It is well to remember that a person who has the habit 
of going to bed at 10 o'clock is not likely upon going to 
bed at 9 o'clock to get to sleep the first or second or even 
third night even as early as 10 o'clock, for the body is 
not used to go to sleep until the habitual fatigue pressure 
has been set up. Sometimes, such persons do well to eat 
an apple or an orange. 

A third variety of the wakeful are those who after 
sleeping (say) five or six hours wake up two or three 
hours too early. This is very unpleasant. 

Often, a pint of not too cold water solves the problem. 

Sometimes, ducking and holding the head in a pail of 
cold water until the skin is thoroughly stimulated solves 
the problem. Unfortunately women with their long hair 
cannot very well practise this mode of relief. They can, 
however, apply a towel wet with cold water at the neck 
and base of the skull and may derive immediate benefit. 

Any person who is occasionally wakeful does well to 
feel the top of his head all over with the palm of his 
hand in order to discover whether or not any locality is 
notably hot. If so, that locality needs to be cooled down 
with a cold cornpress. 

Also, it is profitable to feel the feet to discover whether 
they are cold or not. 

A hot head and cold feet should wake anyone up. 
Soak the feet for ten minutes, if necessary, in hot water ; 
and treat the head with cold water. 

Some cases of occasional wakefulness are cured by 
having their backs well rubbed by some other person with 
a rough towel while they are lying face down on their 
beds. Such relief, of course, is available only to those 
who live at home. 

Many a victim of occasional wakefulness feels for half 



SLEEP 145 

a day ahead that he will have a poor night of it. Almost 
every such case is quickly curable by afternoon rest with 
or without sleep and evenings of social amusement away 
from the place where one sleeps. 

Still another mode of relief to such a victim is a w/sek- 
end in another city or village or even in a hotel or at the 
home of a neighbor. 

Generally the teacher who is a victim of occasional 
wakefulness suffers 

(a) On Friday or Sunday night. 

(b) On the day before an examination or exhibition. 

(c) After some great excitement. 

This is more or less according to the human lot. It has 
something to do with temperament. 

It is far more serious to suffer from wakefulness with- 
out such causes than to suffer from wakefulness with 
them. The man or woman who wakes up or stays awake 
and cannot imagine why and who finds himself (or her- 
self) repeating this should get the advice of one whose 
business it is to cure diseases, for frequent or permanent 
insomnia is itself a disease and leads to other diseases. 
An illness with no ascertainable cause may baffle even an 
expert doctor. 

Heightened consciousness, hysteria, neurasthenia (so- 
called), fevers, other maladies, and insanity, all begin 
with wakefulness that the victim cannot understand. 
This symptom requires interpretation in connection with 
other symptoms that only a physician knows how to read. 



CHAPTER XXI 
DIET 

LESS important than sleep but far more generally and 
frequently discussed (as it should not be) is diet. 
Properly considered, this topic should include 

1. Fresh air, 

2. Drink, and 

3. Food. 

These three are the builders and rebuilders of the body. 

It is far more important to breathe well than to drink 
fresh water and pure milk. 

It is far more important to drink water and milk than 
to eat foods of the right kind, properly prepared for the 
table. 

Food as diet is much less important than water and air. 

But convenience of treatment and common custom 
place the topic of fresh air with exercise and place that 
of drink after food; and they are so placed here accord- 
ingly. 

The essential features of a proper diet for the teacher 
who is an adult are several. Since all are essential, no 
one of them is more important than any other. The 
order in which they are stated is, therefore, immaterial. 

i. For the maintenance of good health or for its resto- 
ration, it is essential that the body coefficient shall be put 
and kept within the normal limits of the sex, age, race 
and temperament of the individual concerned. It is 
absurd to assert that these normal limits of light and 
heavy weights in proportion to the height of one and all 

146 



DIET 147 

shall be the same or even nearly the same. According to 
sex, age, race and temperament, the body coefficient of the 
various adult individuals who are well will range all the 
way from 1.90 to 2.75. This permits a woman of fifty 
years of the Saxon stock and muscular motor tempera- 
ment, height 5 feet 7 inches to weigh up to 185 pounds ; 
and it permits a woman of twenty years of Norman 
French stock, ideo-motor temperament, same height, to 
weigh down to 127 pounds. (This allows for ordinary 
indoor attire.) 

To get within and stay within the proper ranges, one 
needs to eat amounts of food definitely ascertainable by 
chemical standards. These foods will have definite 
values. Potluck in this respect has been relegated to the 
barbarism of its origin. 

The food needs of the teachers include these features, 
viz. 

1. So many calories of heat. 

2. So many grains of muscle building protein. 

3. So much of salts. 

4. So much of acids. 

The state of the weather, of the winds, of sunlight, and 
of humidity greatly affect the caloric requirement as also, 
of course, do the clothing upon the body and the health 
condition itself. In a general way, the typical woman 
teacher requires from 2,800 to 3,200 calories a day. A 
fair apportionment of calories between the three meals is 
this, viz. 

450 breakfast 
600 lunch 

2,000 dinner Total 3,050 
Or this, viz. 

500 breakfast 
1,500 dinner 
1,000 supper Total 3,000 



148 THE HEALTH OF THE TEACHER 

For muscle and nerve restoration, the daily needs of 
most teachers are comparatively light, running from 250 
to 400 grains. It makes a deal of difference whether the 
protein intake is cereal or animal, the former being much 
less nourishing. Protein builds also the skin and flesh, 
and, of course, the internal organs. 

Any protein can be torn down by the chemistry of di- 
gestion to supply heat; but it is a wasteful method and 
distinctly injurious to liver, kidneys and bowels. 

For teachers, the protein intake should be mainly in 
the first and third meals of the day. 

The various salts required should constitute perhaps 
one per cent more. These are essential to good digestion. 

2. It is essential to remember that the alimentary canal 
learns how to digest the accustomed foods and the metab- 
olism also has uncanny acquaintance with the familiar 
output of such foods when digested. While it is unob- 
jectionable to experiment with new foods well reported 
by competent dietitians and hygienists and unobjection- 
able always to simplify one's diet (so far as digestion is 
concerned), it is straight science to know that health 
requires continuity of diet according to the seasons. 
Many and many a person declines into serious indigestion 
by indiscreet consumption of foods with which the ali- 
mentary canal does not know how to operate. 

It is this which explains the distaste of Middle West- 
erners for the seafoods of the Atlantic Coast. Of course, 
they can learn through a summer how to digest such 
foods, but to change at once from cereals, meats, vege- 
tables and fruits to fish, shellfish, crabs and lobsters for 
the main dietary is to invite disgust of appetite and re- 
bellion of the stomach. Many a city man experiences a 
positive revulsion against a country table. Many an 
American cannot stand the dietary of a foreigner. 

For a teacher, who must have a quiet interior, to ex- 



DIET 149 

periment with strange concoctions as ten o'clock suppers 
is doubly wrong. In the first place, the ten o'clock supper 
is wrong; and in the second place, the new concoctions 
are perilous. What is a strange concoction to one person 
may be perfectly familiar to another. Such is the prin- 
ciple behind the saying, " What is one man's meat is 
another man's poison." 

3. Variety within narrow limits is essential. What is 
variety depends, of course, upon the individual. But too 
narrow a diet is very undesirable ; too wide a variety over- 
taxes the digestive ingenuity. 

Four dishes for breakfast, and six or seven for each 
of the other two meals are enough for most teachers. 
Analyzed, even four dishes generally mean a dozen differ- 
ent varieties of food, as seen in this simple menu for a 
winter breakfast, viz. 

1. Oatmeal, sugar and milk and cream; 

2. Lamb chops broiled, lean and fat ; 

3. Toast and butter ; 

4. Baked apple, sugar and milk and cream. 

This meal has cereal and animal proteins, several salts, 
milk and cream casein and butter fat, and fruit acids. 
The three functions of the liver are these, viz. 

1. Secreting bile. 

2. Excreting uric acid, etc. 

3. Storing glycogen (digested sugar). 

The physiological interest in the case arises from the 
fact that the liver prefers the third function to the second, 
and the second to the first, and secretes bile only when it 
has nothing else to do and is itself well. An overload of 
sugar (starches, sugar, etc.) causes the liver to quit 
gathering up uric acid from the blood and making bile. 
The result may be a kidney disturbance because the over- 
load of uric acid is shifted there, or " biliousness " because 
the bowels have no bile and become constipated, or " rheu- 



ISO THE HEALTH OF THE TEACHER 

matism," because the uric acid is left in the tissues ; or 
any combination of these often accompanied by head- 
aches, etc. 

The way to treat the liver with respect is to keep down 
the elements in food and drink that either overload or 
annoy it. 

1. Keep the sugar supply in the diet down below the 
danger point. 

2. Eat little or no meat that contains uric acid. (Beef 
is the worst offender. White meat of chicken and pork 
have but little uric acid; and lamb and veal are usually 
quite free. Fresh meat is far better than old meat.) 

3. Do not antagonize the liver with drugs in the guise 
of drinks and smokes, alcohol, tea, coffee, tobacco. 
Tea is especially bad for the liver. 

One who does not understand the internal organs 
usually imagines that the liver is a simple organ like the 
lungs or kidneys or stomach. It is as complex almost as 
the brain. It is really three organs. Annoying the liver 
is an easy and quick mode of suicide. 

Quantitatively measured, 3 heaping tablespoonfuls of 
oatmeal, 2 heaping teaspoonfuls of sugar, y 2 pint of milk 
and cream, a 3 oz. lamb chop, three large slices of toast, 
an apple 2^2 inches in diameter, afford from 400 to 600 
calories of heat and 100 to 150 grains of protein. 

4. It is essential in winter for teachers to get an ample 
daily supply of hydrocarbons, the easiest source of heat 
and the best restorer of nerves. Woman teachers char- 
acteristically undereat such foods as hot meat fats from 
lamb, mutton, beef, pork, ham, bacon and even from 
chicken, butter, etc. The scientific objection to well done 
pastry is not that the hydrocarbon of the lard in it is not 
properly cooked for eating but that the carbohydrates 
(starches) of the flour are not sufficiently cooked. 

The quickest way to get warm quickly from food in 



DIET 151 

winter is not to eat candy on the way home from school 
or in the evenings but to eat butter or peanut butter on 
toast or crackers ; or else to drink two cups of hot water 
and cream. 

A moderate amount of pure sugar in cold weather does 
no harm at all but an immoderate amount persisted in 
daily will often work as much havoc as whiskey or strong 
tea, though in a very different way. 

5. It is essential to treat the liver with respect. The 
liver is the last great organ of the body to be developed 
in the history of the animal man. It is complicated and 
may be easily damaged by bad diet. It performs no less 
than three distinct and essential (not merely important) 
functions; but it can perform them only when the diet 
and the drink are innocent of harm to it. 

6. It is essential to eat live, fresh cells in at least two 
meals a day. Pasteurized city milk has much of its life 
killed along with the too frequent microbes of disease. 
There are live, fresh cells in these articles uncooked, viz. 

Eggs Celery Dates 

Milk Apples Figs 

Nuts Oranges Butter 

Lettuce Grapefruit Cheese 

Tomatoes Dried prunes Peanuts 

There are no live cells in salt or sugar or the patented 
table sauces and dressings, some of which are so powerful 
that they will kill a whole stomachful of beneficent live 
cells. 

Just what vitamens are, no chemist has yet discovered. 
That they are, many scientists now believe because of the 
observed and verified results. Vitamens appear to be 
present richly in many uncooked foods such as milk and 
peanuts and thinly surviving in slightly cooked meats and 
in soft boiled eggs. 

Any person who can influence his diet by making sug- 



152 THE HEALTH OF THE TEACHER 

gestions at home or by buying meals a la carte at res- 
taurants, in other words, any person whose meals do not 
happen to him and victimize him accordingly would do 
well to arrange a two weeks' program of meals and to 
keep readjusting it according to weather, season, holidays, 
etc. There is not space here to offer a course of 1,095 
meals for a year or even 21 meals for one week. Nor 
would any such course be good for more than a small 
fraction of persons in a small section of the country and 
then only for the city or rural teachers. Diet is per- 
sonal. 

Frequently, patients say that they have to sit a long 
time at the table before appetite comes ; they eat a little 
from the first and second courses on principle. Perhaps, 
when the meal is done for the others at the table, they 
just begin to feel hungry. In nine times out of ten, 
habit or shame leads them to quit when the rest do ; and 
unfortunately for their health and strength. 

Taking a cup of hot water with a little salt in it a half 
hour before eating, lying down for a half hour before 
eating, and taking a ten minute walk before eating, each 
may help. 

Parents who know nothing of human physiology and 
hygiene and consorts who do not understand the severity 
of the teacher's job often reprove those whose appetites 
come slow and either shame or order them to leave the 
table. This is good for the bank accounts of sanitariums 
and of coffin-makers. " For want of knowledge, my peo- 
ple perish," said Isaiah truthfully. 



MENUS 

Some persons like to know the menu before they sit 
down to eat ; others like surprises within the limits of their 
tastes and experience ; few enjoy experiments, very few. 



DIET 



153 



A good Friday evening six o'clock dinner for a city 
teacher, woman age 40 years, sinewy motor, body coeffi- 
cient 2., in April damp weather, might be this, viz. 

1. Potato-celery-milk hot soup (potage) (not too 
much), (potato well cooked beforehand; milk brought to 
boil), (alkaline corrective of toxins of fatigue). 

2. With salted crackers or cubes of well toasted bread 
in the soup. 

3. Boiled leg of Iambi Peas or beans. Carrots or 
parsnips. Rice cooked not less than four hours. Soda 
biscuits well cooked. Plenty of butter. Jelly or marma- 
lade. 

4. Salad of nuts, apples, fresh lettuce or fresh celery, 
oranges and grapes. 

5. White cake (eggs in it). Blanc mange with milk 
and cream. 

Time to eat, not less than thirty minutes. 

Total intake (not counting water drunk from glass) not 
less than one full quart, and preferably one and one-half 
quarts. 

A good midwinter school lunch for a middle-of-the 
week day of a strong, healthy, vital corpulent woman of 
twenty-one might be this, viz. 

1. Half a pint or more of vegetable stew to contain at 
least one ounce of meat with potatoes, parsnips, onions, 
celery and tomatoes. 

2. One baked apple 2^ inches in diameter. 

3. Two thick slices of bread with butter and peanut 
butter. 

4. Half pint of ice cream made with cream and two 
large cookies. 

5. Glass of milk, not less than half pint. 
The intake should be at least one quart. 

A supper for a delicate ideo-motor or anemic sedentary 
woman of thirty years, body coefficient 1.75 (who really 



154 THE HEALTH OF THE TEACHER 

should not be teaching over three and one-half hours a 
day, mornings only) in the autumn on an early week day 
might be this, viz. 

1. Saucer of sliced oranges, not too much sugar, sprin- 
kling only. Cut in a slice also of grapefruit. Pour on 
also a tablespoonful of grapejuice, red. 

2. A proper (2 oz. or more) slice of roast beef to in- 
clude a well-browned edge and some fat (area 2"x6", 
thickness % inch). Medium roasted. Potatoes thor- 
oughly baked. (Preferably boiled and then baked.) 
Egg-plant fried. Tomatoes baked in crackers and but- 
ter. Thin slices of toast well-buttered (two or three). 

3. Chocolate pudding. (Just enough chocolate to 
flavor.) Plenty of milk and cream. Sprinkling of sugar. 
White cake made with eggs. 

4. A dish of salted peanuts, almonds, pecans, walnuts 
with raisins and dates. 

The intake should be not less than one quart, drinking 
water not included. 

7. The seventh essential in diet has been repeatedly 
stated above. It is a physiological and anatomical sin to 
insult the stomach, by forwarding to it anything less than 
a bolus of food, and this bolus should not be within 3^ 
hours of prior eating. The size of the bolus must be 
sufficient to fill the stomach comfortably full of food, not 
mere fluid. The stomach of a normal adult male or fe- 
male holds from one to three quarts of food, and works 
best at about one and a half quarts for the median aver- 
age of persons. At the same height and weight and age 
and of the same race and temperament, the stomach of a 
woman is usually larger than that of a man ; and should 
be so. Unfortunately, the civilized, city woman teacher 
usually has a stomach with thin, weak walls, and 'hence 
cannot always take a full bolus. 



DIET 155 

TOO MANY MEALS 

There is one sure, quick way to get a mighty fermenta- 
tion in the entire alimentary canal ; this is, to eat a little 
breakfast, (that is, one biscuit and a cup of coffee) ; and 
a snack at recess (that is, a ginger cookie and two figs) ; 
a quick lunch (that is, a ham sandwich and a cup of 
tea) ; a snack at four o'clock (that is, a 10 cent ice cream 
" dope " on the way home) ; a nice little dinner, (that is, 
beef broth, a small prism of beefsteak, one small potato, 
two crackers, bread pudding and cream, after dinner 
demitasse of coffee, seven chocolate peppermints, total 
24 quart) ; and a bedtime stomach teaser consisting of % 
of an apple pie with a " good " doughnut that mother 
made. Just two days of this should set any self-respect- 
ing alimentary canal into gaseous rebellion. There are 
tens of thousands of stomachs of city women teachers in 
active eructation from such dietaries, which are helpful 
to physicians and undertakers. 

8. The last essential is, When not feeling well, drink 
water or orange- juice in water, and eat nothing. (Or 
% orange, % lemon in the water.) 

Case. The man had been ailing for three weeks, when 
his alimentary canal at last rebelled. He had exceed- 
ingly important school duties. He was forty-five years 
of age, with the many duties of a city school principal- 
ship and teachers' association officer. Time, hot weather, 
end of year. His very mind had given way to fear lest he 
could not get through. But he did come through on this 
regimen, viz. 

No solid food for five days. 

Closed and locked his office three quarter-hour periods 
daily and lay down on the floor. (Nothing else to lie 
down on there, properly so.) Quieted his circulation.. 



156 THE HEALTH OF THE TEACHER 

Every four hours, from 7 A. M. to 6 p. M., he drank 
well- watered orange or grape juice, one full glass each 
time. 

From Monday to Saturday, he lost six pounds ; but on 
Saturday his interior was fit for decent food in proper 
quantity, and he was well though weak. No medicine of 
any kind was taken. The following year this man ate 
three meals a day, total five quarts of food, and actually 
gained twenty pounds by quitting the many-small-meals- 
and-snacks-a-day error. 



SOME DIETETIC DETAILS 

A merely fried potato is unfit to eat. A potato, first 
boiled or baked and then fried, is excellent food. 

The white potato steadily deteriorates through the year. 
The colder it is kept, though not to be frozen, the 
less it deteriorates. It is not good to eat in quantity after 
February. Its starch is steadily being made over as food 
for the tubers when planted in the spring. The older 
the potato, the more good boiling does it. Potatoes 
should be boiled, baked or roasted until they flake. Well- 
cooked potato under-skin is good food. 

Rice cooked for four hours or more at or above boil- 
ing temperature is good food, for its starches have thereby 
been converted into diastase, which is immediately assim- 
ilable. There are good hospitals in which no rice is given 
until after it has been boiled twenty-eight hours, when it 
is chemically perfect for the invalid's stomach. Raw 
rice, that is, rice cooked less than four hours, is ready to 
ferment in the human stomach. 

The less that cabbage is cooked, the better it is for hu- 
man eating. Such vegetables, however, as parsnips and 
carrots should be cooked until soft, no more. 

The best part of any bread as food is, of course, the 



DIET 157 

crust. Any bread is better for being toasted. The pur- 
pose of cooking yeast dough is to convert its starch into 
diastase ; toasting assists greatly. 

Heavy cake is characteristically bad for the health. 
Some light cake is very good. The former costs the di- 
gestion more to break it up into chyme and chyle than it 
yields. The latter generally is good when it contains no 
alum or free soda. Potatoes, rice, cake and pastry, as or- 
dinarily prepared and cooked, contain unresolved starch, 
which is the enemy of the alimentary canal and of the 
liver. The vegetables that serve as filling or padding 
open out the walls and give the juices of the alimentary 
canal a chance to work. 

The notion that some day the members of the human 
race will take their food in little capsules swallowed with 
water at a gulp shows total ignorance of the physical as- 
pects of digestion. 

In general, all meat should be well done but not over 
done. In general, the middle-aged animals have the 
healthiest meat. In general, meat eaters should beware 
of ptomaines and uric acid as the possible price for trying 
to get easily assimilated proteins of animals and fowls. 

There are thousands of dishes known to good cooks of 
which many are worth eating, some indifferent, some bad. 
A dish arranged by a cook or even a dietitian who does 
not know human physiology and differential diagnosis 
may be well enough for a hotel or for the convalescent 
ward of a hospital; but though it may average well ac- 
cording to the chemistry of food, it may wreck some 
particular individual. Bacon and corn pone together are 
good for the man mountaineer of the Appalachian high- 
lands and for the thinly clad, long-intestined colored field 
workers of the South in cold weather ; but not one woman 
school teacher in one hundred should eat such a dish ex- 
cept perhaps in good skating weather of the Christmas 



158 THE HEALTH OF THE TEACHER 

holidays, after actually being out of doors on the ice for 
hours. 

Prunes in gelatin with whipped cream are a staple dish 
fit for most persons ; but ice sherbet with sugar wafers 
is an amusement for the end of a meal and good for little 
else. 

Many delicate eaters get most of their real nourish- 
ment out of their desserts. The Japanese begin their din- 
ners with desserts and end them with soups, which would 
be a good program for some American teachers. 

The alimentary canal is both a chemical laboratory and 
a physical machine. Peristalsis and digestion are recip- 
rocal cause and effect. The digestion promotes the ver- 
micular reflex; and the peristalsis moves the contents of 
the alimentary canal forward for further digestion. 

The mouth insalivation of the chewed food is slightly 
alkaline; the stomach works with the food contents 
slightly acid ; the rest of the process in the duodenum and 
upper and lower bowel is all accomplished with a dis- 
tinctly alkaline content. All the process requires is char- 
acteristic activity of each part of the alimentary canal. 

Every food has its own peculiarities, its values and its 
debits. In the whole process, salt, which is alkaline, yields 
hydrochloric acid for the stomach and sodium compounds 
for the bowels. Hence we need salt in most meats, espe- 
cially in beef ; and also there should be some salt in bread 
and other foods. Moreover, salt used in the cooking 
process itself plays strange pranks with the chemical re- 
sults. In general, salt should be put upon foods after 
cooking; but there are notable exceptions such as bread. 

Persons who use much salt should remember that salt 
is distinctly a heart stimulant. The blood has the normal 
saltness of sea water; slightly less than three per cent. 
When the blood loses all saltness, the heart quits work. 
Salt also stimulates the kidneys and other organs; and 



DIET 



159 



irritates the bladder. We need just enough salt. In or- 
der not to err seriously, when in doubt, the safe thing 
is to eat rather less than more. Perverted appetites de- 
manding salt, pepper, pickles, in excess, are pathological 
symptoms. 

Vinegar, lemons and grapefruit all have sharp acids 
that when taken in excess interfere with bowel digestion. 
For the typical young woman who teaches, the whole of 
a grapefruit at breakfast is excess by half. 

Eggs are most digestible when soft, boiled or poached. 
Raw eggs may be scarcely digested at all, serving merely 
as an emollient to the alimentary canal of the adult. 
Hard boiled eggs are difficult to digest in proportion 
to the length of being boiled after becoming hard; that 
is, after the albumen has solidified. Eggs fried on one 
side are more digestible than fried on both sides. Scram- 
bled eggs, not burned or toasted, are good. 

The yolk is slightly more nourishing than the white of 
egg, but it contains sulphur, which may make trouble for 
persons over forty years of age. Many who overeat eggs 
have facial and other skin eruptions. The alleged 
" medicinal " value of sulphur is nil. It may have a 
place in the pharmacopeia when prescribed for definite 
ailments by competent physicians ; but as a general prop- 
osition, the person who has disagreeable results from eat- 
ing eggs should cease to eat so many. 

Fish, strawberries and tomatoes, one and all are harm- 
ful to some persons; and should be omitted from their 
dietaries. 

Asparagus is capable of causing severe kidney and 
bladder pains, being an excessive diuretic. 

Of the hundreds of fruits, vegetables, berries, etc., that 
may be classified as fresh foods, ripe watermelon is per- 
haps the least likely to do any harm or any good except- 
as a thirst quencher. Canteloupes and similar melons, 



160 THE HEALTH OF THE TEACHER 

when ripe, are appetizing but have very small food values. 
Pumpkins and squashes stand higher in the dietetic scale. 

Beans and peas are rich in protein, very nourishing, dis- 
tinctly difficult to digest, and to some persons injurious. 
They require far more cooking than they usually get. 

Oatmeal should boil at least two hours in the evening 
before and should then be warmed over unless kept in a 
fireless cooker. 

As for the prepared, ready-to-eat breakfast foods, they 
differ greatly in value. Most of them are really un- 
cooked. Wheat is far better than corn, and corn is far 
better than rice as a breakfast cereal. In winter, oatmeal 
four days in the week is a wise rule; take other cereals 
for variety the remaining mornings. 

An excellent breakfast and supper dish, of course, is 
toast-cream-milk-salt hot water, made as follows, viz. 

Bread l /2 inch thin, lightly browned on each side, well- 
buttered. 

Boiling water with salt in it poured over this. 

Milk warmed to 150 degrees Fahr. poured on after this. 
Milk once boiled is constipating. 

Cream over all. 

Add a poached or a creamed egg if desired. (To 
cream an egg, begin cooking it in cold water. Bring wa- 
ter to a boil rapidly. Time required four minutes.) 

As to fish, salmon contains the most nourishment. Of 
course, therefore, some persons find it indigestible. 
Spanish mackerel and bluefish are high grade sea foods. 
Canned in oil and cooked in butter, cod, herring, sardines, 
tuna, smelts, whiting, are nourishing foods. The fish oil 
in salmon and in other fish similarly rich is a direct nerve 
food. Trout, pickerel and eel grade high; perch and 
bass not so high as foods. Catfish and carp are only fair 
as foods. 



DIET 161 

Meats are of various values and debits to the human 
body according to their nature, to their condition, to 
their cooking, and to the amounts ingested at a meal and 
daily. Beef may be dried beef, steak, roast, pot roast, 
rare, medium, grilled, with or without gravy, etc., etc. 
It may be any one of a dozen cuts; bull, steer, cow, 
two years or nine. The same variety is true of mutton. 
A still greater variety is afforded by the pig. And a 
far greater variety, by poultry. As to game, it may be 
any one of a hundred varieties, cooked as many differ- 
ent ways. 

Broiling, frying, baking, roasting, grilling, drying, 
basting, what differences these indicate ! 

Rare beef from a healthy, well-exercised, grass and 
corn- fed two-year-old steer is one thing ; probably good. 
Venison, canned and overcooked, is very different. 



SOME CHARACTERISTIC FOOD VALUES 

DRINKS 

CALORIES 

Ordinary cup of coffee with milk and sugar 50 

Cup of coffee, I teaspoonful of sugar and 2 

tablespoons of cream 100 

Cup or small glass of milk 100 

Ordinary cup of tea with milk and sugar 

YZ teaspoonful of sugar i tablespoon of cream 

included 5 

Ordinary cup of chocolate 1 50 

i teaspoonful of sugar 25 

Cup %. milk and ^ cream 100 

i teaspoonful of prepared cocoa per cup 50 

l /2 pint of creamy milk (top of bottle of milk) 200 
i quart of standard Jersey milk (not pasteur- 
ized) 950 



162 THE HEALTH OF THE TEACHER 



MEAT DISHES 

Quantities such as are usually served in popular 
restaurants per person and as ordinarily prepared. 

2 eggs, poached or soft boiled , 280 

1 lamb chop (large) 450 

Ham omelet 450 

Broiled ham y$ pound 500 

2 eggs and Yz pound bacon . ., 600 

2 eggs, fried on one side, and y pound ham . . 650 

Hamburger steak ^ pound, fried in lard 500 

Beef sirloin with mashed potatoes 450-600 

Beef stew with vegetables l /s quart . ., 400-500 

Liver, bacon and potatoes 450-600 

Fried sausage, mashed potatoes and griddle 

cakes (3) with maple syrup and butter . . 500-800 

Corned beef hash 400 

Corned beef hash on toast with poached egg . . 600 



VEGETABLES AND FRUITS 

2 baked potatoes . ., 150-300 

Lima beans or green peas 50-100 

Baked beans (large helping) with pork 500-600 

i banana (ripe) 50-150 

Baked apple (sugar and cream omitted) 100 

8 stewed prunes (no cream or milk) 150 

Most vegetables and fruits afford but few calories. 



BREAD, CAKE, ETC. 

3 slices buttered toast , 200-300 

Baked spaghetti or macaroni 100-300 

2 crullers or doughnuts 100-200 



DIET 163 

Raisin pie (%) 300-400 

Pumpkin pie (%) , I5 o 

Mincemeat pie (% ) / 250 

Chocolate cake (chocolate frosting) 200-400 

Rice pudding (cream and sugar not included) 100-150 

Cup of custard made with egg 150-300 

3 griddle cakes (large) wheat, buckwheat or 

corn with 2 ounces maple syrup and butter 250-400 
Breakfast cereals (milk and sugar omitted) . . 100-200 

Wheat is first in calories ; next corn ; next oats ; lowest, 
rice per unit of weight dry before cooking. 

The calories in a personal service of fish, oysters, 
soups, jellies, and marmalades differ so greatly as to 
make general data almost worthless. Salmon is the rich- 
est fish on the general market; Spanish mackerel and 
bluefish come next; salmon is almost as heating and 
nourishing as mutton; oysters have but few calories. 
Soups run from clear broths, of no food value, merely 
appetizers, to stock soups, running as high as 500 calories 
per plate. 

Two ounces of sugar are equal to I ounce of butter 
in calories with this difference, that 5 ounces of sugar 
in all forms are the extreme limit that even a healthy 
liver can manage per day in winter, while so far as the 
internal organs are concerned I pound of butter taken 
in the course of a day would be harmless, at most pro- 
ducing only loose motion of the bowels. Consequently, 
to eat y 2 pound of confectionery in an evening, as some 
women do, is very harmful to the internal organs. 



CHAPTER XXII 



T 



DRINK 

HE more important drinks customarily taken in 
America are these, viz. 



City water 

Rural well water 

Cistern (or rain) water 

(usually soft) 
Spring water (usually 

hard) 

Artificially distilled water 
Water, carbonated 
Water, sweetened and 

flavored with ginger, 

roots, syrups, etc. 
Spring water; carbonated, 

flavored with orange, 

grape juice, lemon, etc. 
Milk, raw 
Milk, pasteurized 
Milk, boiled 



Milk, skimmed 

Buttermilk 

Coffee of various kinds and 
strengths 

Coffee with milk or cream 

Coffee with sugar (or with 
both) 

Tea, green, black, mixed 

Tea, with milk or cream, 
with or without sugar 

Tea with lemon 

Tea and coffee, hot or iced 

Cocoa 

Chocolate variously pre- 
pared 

Near-coffees and coffee- 
substitutes. 



In view of the known characters of the teachers east, 
west, north and south, it is absurd to discuss the alco- 
holic stimulants, from whiskey, brandy, rum and gin, 
from beer and ale, porter and stout, to the thousands of 
different wines. Few teachers drink alcoholic intoxicants. 
Moreover, whether we like it or not, the whole country 
is going for national prohibition, efficiently maintained. 
The teacher who " drinks " will be a law-breaker. 

164 



DRINK 165 

The strong objections to all stimulants and narcotics 
from tea and tobacco to opium and alcohol are these 
two : first, they are flatterers and therefore deceivers ; 
second, they are borrowers, who never generously supply 
or honestly repay, promise-breakers and traitors. 

The little flatterer (a mild cigarette) and the great 
flatterer (morphine taken hypodermically), alike sit on 
the rim of the bowl of consciousness and tell us how well 
we are, how rich, how powerful, how admirable, and with 
what wonderful prospects! They silence memory. 
They quiet action. They simplify situations and destroy 
judgment. But they are by no means equally dangerous, 
partly because of the somesthesia that prevents our taking 
overdoses of some of them. 

The little borrower, mild chocolate, comes with a little 
gift of his own fat for the nerves, but he takes a loan 
of the future all the same and a side loan from the tissues, 
the so-called vital reserve. 

Most persons drink far too little water, pure water. 
Six pints a day are not too many in any weather. Two 
quarts in ordinary autumn and spring weather serve fairly 
well for the muscular motor. In hot weather, a full 
gallon a day is all right: not ice water but pleasantly 
cool. 

Tradesmen make money by selling foods ; but in 
America, they make little or no money in selling pure 
water. In consequence, foods are advertised and orally 
talked up ; but all the foods between the poles of the earth 
are not so important for physiological consideration as 
water. We could well spare a lot of time from the con- 
sideration of foods to the consideration of our drinks, 
especially water and milk. 

Hot water before breakfast is good for some persons. 
Hot water at meals is good for some. Here and there is 
a person who cannot drink milk even after fairly trying 



166 THE HEALTH OF THE TEACHER 

to do so. His system cannot learn how to assimilate it. 

A little water in the course of the meal does no harm 
but washing all foods down, slushing water down with 
every mouthful in gulps of swallowing, is distinctly 
harmful. Only farmers and laborers, mechanics and 
soldiers, living out of doors, can stand long the loss of 
food-insalivation, which results from failing to chew 
one's food thoroughly but flooding it down with water 
instead. 

A glass of water half an hour after eating is desirable 
for all. Some are harmed, others benefited by a glass of 
water upon going to bed. 

There was a case of a teacher with rheumatism and an 
hypertrophied heart, greatly overworked and often by 
family circumstances robbed of sleep. She drank several 
glasses of water during the night ; and lived twenty years 
longer than her several physicians told her family to 
anticipate. 

THE WATER PSYCHOSIS 

Why should not man rejoice in water? He came up 
out of the primeval seas after untold aeons of life in 
their waters. Salted water flows in his veins and 
lymphatics. He lived in water when in the womb of his 
mother for nine dark months. The life of man is in the 
water processes of his body. A human body is a con- 
geries of watercourses, watermills, water laboratories, and 
water machines. Our joints, our eyes, our muscles move 
in water. 

To think much upon food and to forget water is to 
be ignorant and thereby to invite pain, disease and death. 

A few persons drink enough pure water, a few. Many 
persons do not know what good water is. Hard water, 
full of lime and salts, is not good drinking water. 



DRINK 167 

Nevertheless, to make milk palatable and good for some 
persons, it is necessary to put a little lime or magnesia 
into it as a corrective of the acid in the milk. 

It has been said that a man today is the beefsteak or 
the alum bread of yesterday. There is some truth in this. 
It may be said that a man today is the crystal water spirit 
of some divine hillside spring or the human body of a 
friendly and beautiful Alderney cow. Small wonder that 
the Egyptians worshipped and that Hindoos still worship 
"the sacred cow," or that the Greeks worshipped 
fountains. Why worship teapots or coffee cans like Rus- 
sians or Turks ? Let us resort rather to the cool woods 
and to the green fields for our drinks from pure streams, 
when chemists certify their purity. 

There was a case when an entire rural family, with a 
teacher as boarder, drew all their drinking water from a 
well not thirty feet deep in the middle of the barnyard 
where they kept forty head of horses and cattle. For- 
tunately, however, for them all. they preferred tea and 
coffee at their meals rather than water! Thereby, they 
secured boiled water. 

Coffee is a different proposition from tea. It may be 
that chemically considered, caffein is the same as thein; 
but physiologically, coffee operates in different ways from 
tea. It is an antidote for tobacco and alcohol, which 
tea is not. It delays digestion; but it does not irritate 
the stomach walls. Coffee is prepared in two different 
ways in America : as in good hotels and restaurants and 
in intelligent homes, and as in quick lunches with milk 
in the boiler, kept going for hours on end. Black coffee, 
without milk, not boiled too long, taken with but little 
sugar and in small quantity after lunch or dinner simply 
delays digestion and makes one feel comfortable tem- 
porarily. Coffee boiled with milk for an hour or more 
at breakfast as a quick stomach filler, two cups, puts 



168 THE HEALTH OF THE TEACHER 

insoluble boiled and tanned albumin into the stomach and 
delays the digestion of what little food one has consumed. 
It stands by one for about two hours, and then lets one 
drop as through a trap door. 

Coffee checks the restoration of tissue after the tear- 
ing down of work; it prevents larger growth. It is, 
therefore, much worse for persons with body coefficients 
under 2.20 than for those with body coefficients above 3, 
though sometimes it makes such persons lazy and self- 
gratulatory. 

To a strong, healthy, sane man or woman, who sleeps 
nine hours a day and eats 3,000 calories of good food 
and drinks nothing but water or milk, who has a normal 
sanitary environment and decent work hours, there is no 
such thing as " hard work," not even firing a locomotive, 
cutting into human viscera, mending bad plumbing or 
teaching the children of aristocrats. 

A little green tea properly prepared is one thing; a lot 
of black tea is very different. 

Tea should be prepared as follows, viz. : 

Put some in a cup; pour over it boiling water, leave 
ten seconds, pour all this water out. Put on more hot 
water. Leave for two or three minutes. Pour this into 
a hot cup. Throw the tea leaves away. Since tea is 
prepared by being trodden upon by bare feet, there is no 
other clean method to prepare tea than to pour off the 
first dirty water, as every Chinaman and every properly 
informed tea importer knows. When tea is left to boil 
ten minutes, one gets a fearful brew of tannic acid, which 
tans the stomach and angers all the nerves. Black tea 
is green tea partially fermented and rotted in the sun. 
It is used only by those ignorant of its drug effects upon 
stomach and nerves or so addicted to it as to be unable 
to rid themselves of the habit. 



DRINK 169 



THE VITAL RESERVES 

Men and women drink tea to be flattered and deceived 
and to have their appetites reduced and thereby to save 
time, effort, foresight and expense. Tea, like every other 
drug, calls upon the vital reserves, which for practical 
purposes may be considered the energies in those parts of 
us not yet gone crazy or starved to inactivity. The vital 
reserves of the nerves are the muscles, the marrow of the 
bones, the fatty-tissues, the alimentary canal, the special 
organs. The vital reserves to be summoned to the rescue 
of an exhausted musculature are the brain and spinal 
cord, the marrow of the bones, etc. 

The big borrowers are morphine, chloral, brandy. 

Teachers, however, are used by only a few of these 
flatterers and borrowers, the men are used mostly by 
coffee and tobacco, the women by coffee, tea, and choco- 
late. It would be grossly incorrect to grade these as fol- 
lows, viz. : 

Least dangerous chocolate. 

Most dangerous tea. 

The cause for saying this is in the old, old principles 
that quality and quantity and time and number make vast 
differences. Many a woman who complains because her 
father, son, brother, or husband smokes three seven cent 
cigars a day and drinks two ordinary cups of coffee and 
who alleges that they make him " nervous " (meaning un- 
nerve him), herself drinks ten cups of coffee, tea and 
chocolate every twenty-four hours and eats a cake of 
sweet chocolate besides. They do her " no harm " ; on the 
contrary, she says that they brace her up and enable her 
to do her "hard housework." The truth is that they 
make her housework seem hard. 



CHAPTER XXIII 
EXERCISE 

NINE men and women in ten, who teach, upon being 
asked by some one else how to improve the health 
will answer, " Take more outdoor exercise." The cause 
of this is the present fashion. A century and a half ago, 
such men would have replied, " Why, let the barber draw 
your blood ! " Four centuries ago, they would have re- 
plied, " Stay indoors nights ! " 

When commented upon, the person who urges outdoor 
exercise as the sure means of improving the health and 
strength of some one else has quite an argument. This 
runs about as follows, viz., 

1. Outdoor exercise causes muscle waste, and hunger 
follows ; it freshens the blood with oxygen, and the spirit 
brightens. 

2. Hunger causes appetite and increases the consump- 
tion of food. An active day induces fatigue and good 
sleep at night. 

3. Therefore, in order to eat and to sleep well, take 
outdoor exercise. 

There are several difficulties with this as the regimen 
to improve health. 

1. For an invalid or for a very tired person or for one 
with shattered nerves, more exercise, whether indoors or 
outdoors, is likely to prove the straw that breaks the 
camel's back. 

2. Those who seem to need outdoor exercise are 
usually those who do carry a very large amount of seden- 

170 



EXERCISE 171 

tary indoor work. To give them still more work means 
advising them to burn the candle of life at both ends. 

3. Even muscularly strong persons disinclined to suf- 
ficient exercise usually upon examination are found to 
have some positive defect or deficiency unknown to them- 
selves that is the true cause of this disinclination. To 
ask such to exercise more is to ask them to commit sui- 
cide. 

Many cases of each of these three kinds rush into 
memory demanding statement. One illustrating the third 
kind must serve here. 

She was a young woman of twenty years, good weight. 
Dutch-Danish stock, muscularly strong, alert, persistent, 
but commonly accounted " lazy." She could work quietly 
and steadily all day indoors; teach, sew, knit, cook, 
sweep. She was a fair but a slow walker. Examination 
showed that her heart went off beat, and that there was 
valvular leakage. One three-set tennis game or a winter 
afternoon of skating might have easily caused her death. 
She was advised to follow her own inclinations and to live 
low. Three years later, she had almost no heart trouble. 
She was advised to keep quiet. One year later, a careful 
examination indicated that the valvular leakage no longer 
existed : she was well. 

Of what value, then is outdoor exercise? Of very 
great value to most persons when rightly taken ; but first 
every one who has any doubts about himself should be 
thoroughly examined. 

BALANCED HEALTH TESTS 

All this has been worked out very systematically by 
experts called physiologists and pathologists and is now 
upon a scientific basis. One of the tables involved con- 
cerns age, sex, pulse beat and blood pressure. It is too 



172 THE HEALTH OF THE TEACHER 

technical for full presentation here, but all the principles 
involved are clear, definite and useful to any intelligent 
person. They are as follows, viz. 

1. The older one's age, the lower is the permissible 
range of maximum and minimum of pulse beat in health 
and strength sufficient for outdoor exercise. 

2. The older one's age, the higher is the permissible 
range of maximum and minimum of blood pressure in 
health and strength for outdoor exercise. 

3. In women, the pulse beat runs higher than in men. 

4. In women, the blood pressure runs slightly lower 
than in men. 

5. The higher the pulse beat, the lower relatively should 
be the blood pressure. 

6. The lower the pulse beat, the higher should be the 
blood pressure. 

CASES 

By exercise is meant here, long, hard, sustained exer- 
cise. Almost all persons benefit by brief, mild exercise. 
The exceptions need medical care. 

Woman 21 years old. Pulse standing 80. Arm blood 
pressure 130. Fit for exercise. 

Woman 21 years old. Pulse standing 96. Arm blood 
pressure 160. Not fit for exercise. 

Woman 21 years old. Pulse standing 52. Arm blood 
pressure no. Not fit for exercise. 

Man 55 years old. Pulse standing 65. Arm blood 
pressure 150. Fit for exercise. 

Man 55 years old. Pulse standing 84. Arm blood 
pressure 200. Not fit for exercise. 

Man 55 years old. Pulse standing at 50. Arm blood 
pressure 125. Not fit for exercise. 

Woman 36 years old. Pulse standing 80. Arm blood 
pressure 128. Fit for exercise. 



EXERCISE 173 

Woman 36 years old. Pulse standing 60. Arm blood 
pressure 145. Fit for exercise. 



PULSES 

In general, the range of a good pulse, when one is 
standing after being seated for fifteen minutes, is from 
68 to 86; but when the blood pressure is low for one's 
age, a higher pulse is well enough. And when the blood 
pressure is high, a lower pulse is not alarming. A pulse 
is slowest when a person has been lying down for several 
hours; quickest, after fast running for a considerable 
distance. It may vary in a healthy person from 68 to 
(say) 100; in a young person, even higher. Or from 76, 
lying down, to 108, after running. 



BLOOD PRESSURE 

To take the blood pressure, requires the use of a blood 
pressure machine. The pressure is usually taken upon 
the upper arm, left or right. 

The cause of the contrariety of pulse and blood pres- 
sure in health is that when the arteries are hard as in 
arteriosclerosis, the heart must pump hard and fast to 
drive the blood through. Therefore, a slow, steady pulse 
shows that even though there is considerable hardness of 
the walls of the arteries, the heart is strong and quite able 
to sustain the load. And a quick, perhaps even, irregular 
pulse with a low blood pressure, shows that though the 
heart is not a good machine, still it has fine support in 
the arteries. In either case, active, vigorous exercise is 
far more likely to do good than harm. 

Many girls and some boys from sixteen years on have 
small internal organs, especially hearts. In some cases', 
at twenty or even twenty-five years of age, they disclose 



174 THE HEALTH OF THE TEACHER 

poor internal development. In a few cases, they never 
improve. Such persons are unlikely to reach forty or 
even thirty years of age, for they are sure to offer hut 
poor resistance to disease and to hard work. The cause 
of such deficiency was probably either ( I ) poor heredity, 
(2) underfeeding, (3) some children's disease, notori- 
ously scarlet fever, (4) underexercise, especially too little 
play* (5) bad sleeping habits, singly or in some unhappy 
combination. After twenty-one years of age, it is improb- 
able that the internal conditions can be remedied ; yet this 
is possible in some cases. 

With these several limitations and exceptions in mind, 
all the rest of the teachers of America should take exer- 
cise every day, preferably out of doors, and preferably in 
the main in plays and games. 



SWIMMING 

The finest of all exercises for any normal man or 
woman is swimming in the salt ocean. Of course, it is 
best to go swimming with others. Many counsels have 
been offered against staying in too long : but what is too 
long is a matter of personal idiosyncrasy. Fifteen min- 
utes is too long for some : and three hours, twice a day, 
six days a week, is not too long for others. The test is 
simple. So long as one is warm in the water, and when 
upon coming out and rubbing down, one feels a strong 
pleasant reaction, one has not stayed in too long. 

Next to swimming in the salt sea is swimming in fresh 
water that is not too cold. 

Third is swimming in a gymnasium pool. 

Swimming is the perfect exercise for every healthy 
man, woman and child, teachers included. It uses every 
muscle, while the water sustains the weight. It develops 
wind. It increases the strength of the internal organs. 



EXERCISE 175 

Unquestionably, salt water is good for the skin. It does 
no harm to swallow a quart of it. And swimming de- 
velops courage and persistence. 

The water psychosis is deep in the body of every human 
being. The man and woman who says truthfully to him- 
self, " I love to swim," has returned to the joys of the 
pristine world out of which he came. 

Rowing and canoeing are splendid exercises. No one 
should get into a rowboat or canoe, however, who does 
not know how to swim well enough to keep above water 
a long time or how to swim well enough to swim ashore. 
Canoe paddling is superior to rowing for body develop- 
ment. 

BALL GAMES 

Football, baseball and basketball are good games for 
strong men ; but not good games for many women. There 
are several considerable dangers in them to women : 
I. Breaking the long clavicle. 2. Breaking the front 
teeth. 3. Wounding the internal organs, or 4, the mam- 
mary glands. Golf, however, is reasonably safe and is 
a good game for any adult. Some women school teach- 
ers do play golf on Saturdays. 

Tennis is debatable. The question whether a woman 
school teacher should play it turns upon her own par- 
ticular condition. For some women, tennis is good; for 
others, it is bad; for still others, it is good in some 
weathers and not otherwise. Most women who play 
tennis play too long, play too many games and do not play 
hard enough when they are playing; but there are many 
exceptions. Also, most women, when they take strong 
exercise, forcing perspiration, do not immediately there- 
after take a mild shower bath as they should when pos- 
sible. 

The safe rule for a woman in doubt whether or not 'to 



176 THE HEALTH OF THE TEACHER 

play tennis is not to play the game ; this opinion is from 
the health and strength point of view. 

There are some internal conditions, often found in 
woman, that make tennis playing, like rope skipping, abso- 
lutely forbidden. It is a good game to make the healthy 
and strong alert and vigorous. It is no game to restore 
an invalid or a convalescent to health and strength. 

There are a score of run-around-the-ring games played 
by groups, most of which 1 are all right for most teachers 
provided that they do not play them too long. 



OTHER EXERCISES 

Horseback riding is available to many rural teachers 
and to some city teachers. It is a fine exercise for most 
men and for some women ; far superior to driving an 
automobile or to riding in an automobile or to driving a 
team of horses or riding in a phaeton. It is a pity that 
the motor car has made so many roads unsafe for horse- 
back riders. There is something in the character of 
horses that reacts against the motor cars. Perhaps, when 
the aeroplane is perfected and reduced in price, the riding- 
horse will be restored to his appropriate station as one of 
the three good animal friends of man, the dairy cow, 
the watchdog and the riding-horse. 

Walking outdoors every day a few miles and on holi- 
days five to ten miles is good exercise for most women, 
but not for all. It is not good for such as have serious 
spinal curvatures or short, frail limbs and heavy bodies, 
or for very slender women with deficient body coefficients, 
or for those with weak hearts. Most women do not 
walk enough in the open air. They show this in their 
complexions, in their bodily postures when seated, in their 
walk itself or in their obvious psychical cpnditions. A 
person who walks much and who has learned how to 



EXERCISE 177 

walk properly for a particular physique and temperament 
shows to the discerning the signs of being a good walker. 
The hips rotate slightly in walking, the knees give a little r 
the feet toe straight forward, the body and head are held 
strongly but not straight upright, and the arms swing but 
not too much. A good, quick walker gets over the ground 
fast without much effort. 

Seated and resting, a good walker who is not ill looks 
strong and vigorous ; he is not limp or lazy in appearance. 
He has a good neck and well set shoulders, breathes well, 
and his legs and arms take good care of themselves unself- 
consciously. 

Few of the shoes for sale in America are good walking 
shoes. Such shoes should have four characteristics : 
i. The instep fits up into the arch of the foot snugly and 
comfortably. 2. There is abundance of room for foot 
and toe to spread. 3. The sole is of good weight and yet 
pliable. 4. The heel is not over one inch high and is 
broad, being preferably of live new rubber. 

Indoor exercises are very numerous, from games and 
plays to calisthenic drills and work upon apparatus. 

Every human being from childhood to oldest age should 
take some setting-up exercises every morning before 
dressing for the day. Five to eight minutes are enough. 
Every muscle should be exercised ; fingers and toes and 
scalp included. 

Some persons take their exercises flat on their beds, 
which is all right. 



TESTS OF EXERCISES 

In taking these exercises, it is important to observe 
these points, viz. 

1. To move every muscle. 

2. To work vigorously the neck and lungs. 



178 THE HEALTH OF THE TEACHER 

3. To exercise the soft abdominal muscles thoroughly. 

It is profitable to remember that it is more important to 
expel all the old air from the lungs than to get in new 
air, which part of the process takes care of itself. 

And don't forget to drink one or two glasses of water. 

Some persons use ^ pound or i pound dumbbells to 
advantage when doing the bedroom exercises. 

There is a fine exercise in deep breathing that has been 
styled 

TAKING SNUFF WITH THE PRESIDENT 

According to the report, the Army surgeon-physician 
who had a President of the United States in his special 
charge was not pleased with his shallow breathing. 
Therefore, he invented this exercise. 

Stand erect. Expel all the air from the lungs by vigor- 
ous deflation, using the diaphragm and intercostal muscles 
for all they are worth. 

Of course, even a deep breather takes only one or two 
deep breaths on the average for every sixteen inhalations. 



THE FINGER DANCE 

This very pretty exercise is much superior to its title. 

Rise upon the very tiptoes. 

Stretch the arms far above the head, somewhat for- 
ward of the body. 

Shake and wave the fingers and hands loosely upon the 
wrist; and continuously, while waving the fingers and 
holding the body on tiptoe, swing and sway three-quarters 
of the circle to the right, around to the left and back 
again several times. 

For completely loosening the shoulder-blades under 
their muscle coverings on the back, no other exercise 
compares with this. 






EXERCISE 179 

GYMNASIUM EXERCISES 

For the gymnasium, both men and women do well to 
play volley ball. 

The medicine ball is good for strong men. 

As to chest weights, the Swedish ladder, the rowing 
machine and other apparatus, these should be employed 
according to the differential diagnosis. Most teachers 
have too weak backs, shoulders, and arms ; especially their 
backs. They can hold them straight by effort ; but their 
backs are not strong enough to stay straight without 
effort. Consequently, in the gymnasium, most teachers 
need work for the back muscles. 

Some persons who publish advice to teachers say much 
about the " exercise of housework " and about the " exer- 
cises of farming, gardening, and animal husbandry." 
More teachers have been injured by farm work while 
teaching than have been helped physically by it. 

IS HOUSEWORK HYGIENIC? 

Could one select the particular tasks in these lines that 
make for appetite, for physical recreation and for muscle^- 
building, there would be an argument for each; but 
housework includes much that hurts the health. Of 
course, the vacuum cleaner gets rid of the dust problem 
in sweeping. Making toast with an electric toaster does 
not exhaust muscle and nerve and takes but little time. 
Moving furniture about on housecleaning days is good 
for all, save frail persons. But shaking down a furnace 
and* taking out the ashes, highly recommended by some 
persons who have had little experience in doing it and 
know but little of the typical condition of the throats and 
lungs of teachers, do not constitute a hygienic exercise, 
though they may be temporary expedients in economy. 



i8o THE HEALTH OF THE TEACHER 

Beating rugs and carpets outdoors in the city backyard 
or upon the rural lawn never yet delayed an attack of 
bronchitis in an old man nor a headache in a young 
woman. 

The frail man who teaches in a high school gets, when 
hoeing corn upon a summer's day, a case of sunstroke 
much more easily than the husky farmer himself who has 
taken him for a summer boarder. 

No woman who has a baby at home and who takes care 
of that baby nights is fit to teach school in the daytime. 
And young mothers who expect their teacher-husbands to 
care for the babies at night may be saving their own 
lives, but they are wrecking their husband's nerves. 
Truth is that a man teacher, his wife and several small 
children constitute a family unit with too few adults to 
protect the health of the two parents. 

" Worn out by school work and by home care " would 
be the truthful epitaph upon the tombstones of many 
teachers, bpth men and women. 

Few physicians marry until thirty years of age, or 
older. Many men teachers marry at less than twenty-five 
years of age. The two professions are much alike in 
their nervous pull. Law, theology, journalism, engineer- 
ing, architecture, business itself; none of these is like 
teaching in throwing very heavy burdens, that is, social 
burdens upon the nerves of young persons. Few young 
lawyers have large practices ; few young preachers have 
large churches ; few young business men run large stores 
and factories. But many young teachers operate large 
schools and draw salaries too small to keep household 
servants, even were such available singly. Household 
servants now hunt in duets and trios ; single servants are 
out of style. When possible, most teachers should find 
means to avoid housecare and housework ; and most of 
them should not try to do heavy muscular farm work in 



EXERCISE 181 

the summer. The man who goes into teaching either 
should choose a wife of marked physical health and 
moral courage or else should not desire to establish a 
large family. These conditions are as inseparable from 
the profession itself as are the frequent movings of the 
minister of the modern democratic denominations from 
parish to parish. The public teacher belongs to his 
school ; this is first. 

Of course, in some family households, there are grand- 
parents, maiden or widowed aunts or bachelor uncles, 
who greatly relieve the young parents and thereby sim- 
plify the problem of how to get as well rested at home as 
at a hotel or in a good boarding house. In such house- 
holds, the teacher-members, who bring in the monthly 
incomes, should, of course, do what they can to carry 
forward the household work provided that their tasks do 
not reduce their school efficiency. This is both private 
good sense and public duty. 

It makes some women happy to cook flapjacks for 
breakfast and to bake cakes for supper; it makes some 
men happy to broil beefsteaks any time ; and it fills some 
men with a joy of accomplishment to run a coat of fresh 
paint over the dining room woodwork and floor. These 
esthetic, kinesthesiac persons should be encouraged to 
amuse themselves at housework. They really play when 
they appear to work. 

DETERMINED EXERCISE 

Exercise means a " shining forth." In true exercise, 
the spirit is released. Seldom does drudgery help the 
health ; not even gymnasium drudgery. Yet this is only 
a general truth ; and it has exceptions. The persons who 
have some definite muscular weakness (say) of the periph- 
eral accessory muscles of forearm and hand, preventing 



182 THE HEALTH OF THE TEACHER 

good handwriting, hand sewing and typewriting, piano 
playing, tennis playing and handshaking, should take 
definite exercises to strengthen arms, wrists and hands. 
It may be years before there is an adequate response ; 
but usually the benefit is seen in a few weeks. 

There was a case of a young man teacher with a fine 
mind and a natural disposition to teach. He slouched 
about with a hangdog look and was slovenly in attire. 
Examination showed a frail and lazy neck and upper 
spinal column. His head hung upon his strained, elon- 
gated back neck muscles. It was observed when he read 
that his chin choked down upon his collar and that his 
carotid arteries were compressed, reducing the blood 
supply to his head. Before his class, he brightened up 
doubtless from the influence of the adrenal gland secre- 
tions, released under the stimulus of the classroom effort. 

He lived at home with his mother, a widow ; and he did 
a lot of work there, including the making of bread and 
sweeping the floors. The problem was how to get him to 
hold his head straight and to make his carriage conform 
with his excellent character and ability. He considered 
the various head rotations and other movements drudg- 
ery. Nevertheless, being anxious to please the school 
authorities, he set out to endure the drudgery. It was 
nine weeks before he could walk unobserved and unself- 
consciously, with his head erect. It was twelve weeks 
before he sat and read with his head back and his book 
up. But he won. Incidentally, he had gained enough 
weight to show a body coefficient of 2.40, which was 
normal. Also, being able to look men in the eye, he 
became much more influential with teachers and pupils. 
After five years had passed, he was a city school princi- 
pal. It took the drudgery of physical training to develop 
the appearance of manliness in him. 



EXERCISE 183 



DAILY PROGRAM OF EXERCISE 

It is a common question as to how much time anyone 
should spend in definite physical exercise daily. Only 
individual diagnosis can answer this question. But this 
in general makes a good program for the five school 
days, viz. 

1. Before breakfast 8 to 10 minutes; light calisthenics 
in one's own room. 

2. Walk one mile before school. 

3. Get a good airing for 5 to 10 minutes in midmorn- 
ing. 

4. Do likewise at noon. 

5. Walk one mile after school. 

6. Before getting to bed, either walk half a mile or 
take 5 to 10 minutes of light calisthenics in one's room. 

7. Take 100 deep breaths daily. 

On Saturdays, spend at least three hours outdoors. 
On Sundays, spend at least two hours outdoors. 






CHAPTER XXIV 
BATHING 

THE arguments about bathing, pro and con, are in 
general amusing instances of scissoring without 
definite issues for want of differential diagnosis of the 
individuals concerned, of the kinds of baths proposed and 
of the seasons of the year. 

GENERAL RULE 

Take 300 baths a year. 

That is, omit four or five baths a month. Otherwise 
bathe daily. Or bathe twice a day in very warm weather 
and every other day in very cold weather. 

But take 300 baths a year. 

There are almost as many kinds of baths as there are 
human beings to take them. 

The tub bath is the most common; taken at night, 
hot. Generally, the once-a-week, hot tub bather stays in 
the water too long, uses too much soap, and fails to rinse 
off in clear water. No soap should be left either on the 
hair of the head or upon the skin. 

It is undesirable to use a hot bath, save for definite 
therapeutic effects. It does quiet the nerves, may even 
cure definite local pains, and in some persons it induces 
sleep. But it is exhausting to the vitality notwithstand- 
ing. 

The warm tub bath (96 to 100) -taken daily in the 
morning, with soap used locally where needed, when one 
stays in the tub not over ten minutes, and rubs down 
vigorously with a crash towel is less objectionable. It is 
the easy and lazy bath. 



BATHING 185 

The cool tub bath taken daily night or morning (70 to 
95) i g good for most persons. 

Cold tubs (under 70) are seldom good for anyone. 
Cool and cold tank swims are fine for all save invalids. 
The exercise keeps up the body heat. Fifteen minutes 
make a fair limk. Several swims a week are good for 
almost anyone. 

Better than any tub bath is the shower bath, beginning 
warm and ending cold. Time, two to five minutes. 
Persons with weak hearts or with severe neuralgia, how- 
ever, should stick to the warm tub bath. The shower 
bath is especially good for youth and for young men and 
women. 

Not many persons use too many local baths, as for 
example the hot foot bath or the cold duck in a pail for a 
headache. 

Local applications of very hot water upon compresses 
of cloths are highly beneficial for inflamed eyes, facial 
neuralgia, writer's cramp, colic and many other local 
troubles. Though hydrotherapy has a substantial basis 
of experience in cures and in relief, it is, however, not 
a panacea. 

Quiet sleeping porches and variously equipped bath- 
rooms are more important features in modern scien- 
tifically provided homes than even kitchens, and are far 
more important than parlors and libraries. 

A scientifically provided bathroom has these features; 
viz. 

A sanitary, strong flushing water closet, white enam- 
elled. 

A shower bath in the corner. 

A big, long enamelled tub flush with the floor. 

A big, wide, low wash basin well set out into the room. 

A foot tub. 

Every washcloth should be washed in soap and hot 



186 THE HEALTH OF THE TEACHER 

water every day, or used one day only and then laid aside 
for the laundry. 

Every hair brush should be washed in soap and hot 
water every week. 

The tooth brush (medium or soft bristles) should be 
used eight minutes a day. 

The soaps used should have little or no free alkali. 
There are several good soaps. The notion that one may 
use so much soap as actually to wash the oil out from 
the oleaginous pores under the skin has just this much 
truth, that a bad soap is harsh to the skin. It is decidedly 
doubtful whether anyone ever .did cause eczema upon 
one's face by using too much good soap and water; but 
bad soap will damage the skin. Washing often is no 
remedy for skin troubles. Seabathing, however, does 
help many skin troubles. The safe rule is to consult a 
good physician in such a case. 

In some low states of health, one should not take either 
tub or shower baths. Few persons are so ill, however, 
that they do not benefit by local bathing, part by part, 
until the whole body is cleaned and refreshed. For a 
really frail person, a good way to bathe is to wet thor- 
oughly an entire sheet in water at 105 to 110 degrees 
and to wrap this closely around one and rub ; then take a 
warm, rough towel and part by part dry the body ; neck, 
arms, chest, etc., etc. One may do this comfortably 
when seated upon a chair. 

Many persons bathe in unventilated bathrooms, which 
is very bad. They stay in bathrooms 8'x lo'x 10' three 
quarters of an hour and then wonder why their heads 
ache, and why they feel " punk " or " stuffy." Fresh air 
for the lungs, blood and body is more important even 
than a clean skin ; it is even more a necessary of life than 
water; we need fresh air sixteen times a minute. During 



BATHING 187 

the bath, there should be ventilation by the window or 
otherwise. 

Many persons bathe in bathrooms kept too warm in 
winter. Seventy degrees is a fair temperature. 

There was a case where a person who was frail steadily 
grew worse. Persistent and frequently renewed inquiries 
by the physician failed to disclose the cause. Finally, he 
guessed right. This teacher invalid took what she called 
a " warm bath " every night. Going without warning to 
the family home one night at ten o'clock, he found that 
his patient was taking her usual warm bath. A bath 
thermometer that he had brought along showed that the 
patient regarded 135 as only a properly " warm " bath. 
He ordered an 100 bath every other night instead, lim- 
ited to ten minutes, and the patient began to pick up 
immediately. 

Every bathroom needs a bath thermometer. Most per- 
sons are poor guessers as to temperature. 

The fresh air bath is a fine practice. This is taken in 
order to let the skin breathe. The time desirable is from 
five to ten minutes daily. The more humid the day the 
longer should the bath be. Every skin needs aeration. 

Every human skin should be " good leather." It may 
also be white and pink and fair and beautiful; but it 
should at least be substantial and have texture. Tissue 
paper is not a good standard for a human skin. In a 
general way, no other health sign is any better than the 
skin itself. 

To develop and keep a good skin, take short, frequent 
water baths and daily air baths. A good skin flushes 
white and then red promptly in reaction to slight pressure. 
It has body and shows good capillary activities. The 
color and condition of the skin of the face below the 
eyes tell much of the truth as to the health of anyone. 



CHAPTER XXV 
CLOTHING AND FOOTWEAR 

SCHOOL teachers make no worse errors in personal 
hygiene than their characteristic errors in attire. We 
in America are in the north temperate zone ; and save in 
Florida, upon the Gulf Coast and upon .the Pacific Coast, 
we have the winter with which to contend. We go to and 
from our work in cold weather for a period of from 
three months in Tennessee to six months in Maine and 
Michigan ; but at our work, we are living in warm 
weather again, as we are at night in our homes. 

Perhaps after we become civilized, we shall find a way 
to build our schoolhouses with dressing rooms, in order 
that we may put on completely different sets of clothes 
for the several 'hours in the warm indoors. 

Except outdoors in winter, no one should ever wear 
heavy underclothing; but outdoors, frail persons may 
need woolens above porous knit underwear. 

Men err by wearing heavy woolen underwear through- 
out the winter fourteen and sixteen hours a day, which is 
bad. Women err by wearing thin cotton and linen under- 
wear even outdoors with the thermometer at 10 degrees 
and a wind blowing, which may be fatal. 

The schoolroom should be at from 62 degrees to 68 
degrees Fahrenheit temperature. Absolute uniformity is 
undesirable. A variation within every hour of at least 
ten degrees, never going above 70, is desirable. We 
should swing across 64 or 65 several times every school 
day. 

But when the temperature is 65, woolen underwear is 
too warm ; it prevents the skin temperature nerves and 

188 



CLOTHING AND FOOTWEAR 189 

cells from operating well. Many and many a man 
teacher lives from 8.45 A. M. till 11.45 an d from I p. M. 
to 3.45 inside of a suffocated skin. It may be that his 
own home is also warm and comfortable at 68 or pos- 
sibly even 72. Still worse, it may be that he sleeps in 
heavy night garments and under thick, heavy and hot 
bedclothing, in a room kept up to 65 through the night, 
Small wonder that so many men teachers die of tuber- 
culosis, pneumonia and bronchitis. Their skins have 
never had any chance to relieve their lungs in the work 
of proper temperature regulation of the human body. 

With the woman teacher, it is the other way around. 
Desiring to be fairly comfortable at school and at home, 
she dresses lightly as to underwear, and relies upon her 
ability to stand being frozen on the way to and from 
school. Truth is that because a woman from sixteen to 
fifty years of age, unless tightly corseted, has a better 
heating power than a man, she can make a dash for the 
schoolhouse and for the first five or ten minutes on the 
way really be fairly comfortable even in zero weather. 
She pays for this by being cold for the first half hour or 
so at school and again at home. She simply will not wear 
such heavy underclothing as a man can stand for a period 
of time and not die because of it. Nevertheless, our 
women teachers pay for being too thinly clad outdoors 
by acquiring another trouble ; besides tuberculosis, pneu- 
monia and bronchitis, they get tonsilitis. 

Only old persons, past fifty years, with wearing out 
lives and lazy skins, or invalids with poor metabolism 
should wear heavy woolen underwear; and even such 
persons should wear porous knit garments of cotton or 
linen next to the skin. The worst underwear ever in- 
vented for indoor workers has a soft nap that mats against 
the skin, holds the wet perspiration and suffocates the- 
pores. 



TMK HKALTH OF THK TRACHKR 

For healthy, vigorous persons, there i* only one kind 
of underwear ; porotii knit of cotton, linen or silk. When 
one suit is not enough, wear two suits. When two suits 
are not enough, wear one suit of porous knit and a thin 
hard woolen or silk suit over thi If these two suits 
are not enough, only a physician can solve the riddle. 

Most men wear not only woolen underwear but also 
heavy woolen suits for outer wear. 'Ihey arc dn-ssed in- 
doors as for an Eskimo igloo of ice lit by a hole to the 
sky in daytime and ventilated thereby. 

Many a case of insomnia is directly due to being over- 
heated all day long. 

Since teachers cannot arrange to dress according to 
the real weather, outdoors and indoors, from hour to 
hour, it becomes expedient to approximate a correct solu- 
tion for the problem, 

1. Wear light or medium underclothing, preferably, 
porous knit. Never wear woolen underwear in school 
unless old or feeble or frail, 

2. Wear medium weight outer garments, 

3. In winter, wear either (a) a medium weight cloak 
or overcoat with a sweater under it or (b) a heavy cloak 
or overcoat, even of fur. (A fur cloak for a woman or 
overcoat for a man is suitable only for excessively cold 
weather ; below zero ; or for riding purposes ; a fur coat 
is not a walking garment for any above 10 weather.) 

For outside wear, one really needs a choice of at least 
four garments, viz. 

1. A light weight spring or autumn coat, of moderate 
length. 

2. A heavier weight long winter coat. 

3. A short heavy weight walking coat. 

4. A sweater of good weight and 1< -n^th, no arms. 

Of course, various other garments may well be added 
Properly cared for through the summer against the moths 



HIWWUtSL op 



X- Wan dMMi^ raHBtf>*~ K. m in. 




:^*ilv, 



IQ2 THE HEALTH OF THE TEACHER 

spread over the foot of the bed an extra blanket that may 
easily be drawn up even by a sleepy person, not half 
awake, who feels cold at 2 A. M. 

For materials in clothing, the human race has developed 
five main supplies : linen, cotton, wool, silk and skins with 
and without fur. The ancient civilized peoples about the 
Mediterranean Sea got along with linen textiles for thou- 
sands of years while our Teutonic ancestors about the 
Baltic Sea and our Keltic ancestors in France and the 
British Isles kept themselves tolerably comfortable in 
skins. Only modern man has used to any considerable 
extent wool or cotton or silk. 

The effects of these five materials upon the health 
depends, of course, to an extent upon their manufactured 
condition. Still, there are inherent qualities in each not 
wholly changed in manufacture. 

In recent years, it has become the style to line men's 
overcoats with fine dressed leather, with the skins of 
rabbits and hares (whose pelts have been stripped of fur 
to make the felts of hats) ; or with the skins of lambs, 
kids, etc. Such a skin-lined coat shuts out the wind 
without being so excessively warm in mild weather as a 
coat lined with muskrat fur. It does not, however, ven- 
tilate so well in quiet air as does an overcoat with a 
woolen lining. 

A woman's coat with the fur outside is warmer, weight 
for weight, than a man's coat with the fur inside. It 
turns the wind better to wear the fur outside. 

A fur cloak or overcoat in the north is not an extrava- 
gance even though it represents a considerable capital 
outlay, for it lasts many years. But it is not the first 
coat to buy, for it serves well only in bitter weather. 

Every teacher should have a raincoat in good condition ; 
rubbers and arctic overshoes ; and two umbrellas, one for 
home, the other for school, at each end of the route. 



CLOTHING AND FOOTWEAR 193 

SHOES 

Much has been written and spoken about shoes with 
low heels for women. It is one of " the 101 anatomical 
peculiarities of women " that characteristically their feet 
have higher arches than have the feet of men of respec- 
tively the same race, stock and breed. A foot with a 
high arch requires a correspondingly high heel. Of 
course, the fashionable very high heel is an outrage to the 
anatomy of any foot, and the woman who wears it de- 
serves all the backaches, headaches, and other discomforts 
that it properly causes ; but the " low, broad heel " of the 
conventional ladies' magazine article on " hygiene for 
women " is only for the few women whose feet have low 
arches. 

A low arch is not the same thing as a flat foot; a low 
heel on a foot with a high arch will help to cause a flat 
foot, that is, a broken arch. The most important of all 
features in being fitted with shoes is that the new shoe 
shall have a properly built instep to fit one's own foot and 
to support it strongly. Very few shoe manufacturers 
make shoes that fit the human foot as it really is. The 
notion that a broad, flat shoe with a low, broad heel is 
meant for one and all belongs to the museum of hygiene 
myths. 

It is an excellent rule never to wear the same pair of 
shoes all day two days in succession. Any shoe after 
being worn one day needs to be rested by wearing a dif- 
ferent shoe every other day. Upon this plan, two pairs 
of shoes will wear as long as three, when each is worn 
daily until it gives out. Nor should the two pairs for 
ordinary daily use be on the same last or of the same 
material. They should at least be somewhat different to 
rest the foot. 

For teachers, there is nothing in wearing waterproof 



I 9 4 THE HEALTH OF THE TEACHER 

or patent leather shoes for daily ordinary life. Such 
leathers do not ventilate the feet. 

There was a case of a teacher who particularly fancied 
leather-lined, heavy shoes, which he wore for two years. 
In the spring of the second year, he developed a skin 
disease between the toes that was checked by special 
treatment and by wearing thereafter very light shoes ; 
but neither physician nor surgeon, neither chiropodist 
nor hydrotherapist was ever able to cure the disease. He 
tried seabathing, sunbathing, and various ointments; he 
had his toes and feet skinned by experts ; to no avail, 
beyond arresting the further progress of the disease. 

Many foot troubles can be cured, while practically all 
can be alleviated by wearing shoes of the right kinds and 
by changing them frequently. It is well to keep in use 
not less than a half dozen pairs of shoes. 

Headaches and many other pains are often caused by 
too tight, even airtight shoes, and too heavy shoes. Al- 
ways wear at home either very light shoes or slippers. 

It does not take much reflection to realize that the 
human foot was meant to go bare; and that while one 
cannot go barefoot in our northern winters or in polite 
society or upon modern streets, still a light foot is the 
ideal. Light shoes often wear longer than heavy ones. 
The same reflections apply to socks for men. But few 
women now wear heavy stockings. Some men, however, 
like heavy socks to soften the feeling of their shoes. This 
is bad for the feet, stimulating excessive perspiration and 
making them tender. 



COLLARS AND BELTS 

Some men wear too high collars; others wear collars 
that are too tight. Such collars are very bad for the 
thyroid gland and for the carotid arteries in the neck. 



CLOTHING AND FOOTWEAR 195 

A hygienically proper collar is low and roomy ; a 1 4-inch 
neck requires a 15^-inch collar. Soft collars are far 
better for the neck circulation than the modern stiffly 
laundered collars. Soft shirts, of course, are more com- 
fortable than shirts with stiff bosoms. Comfort contrib- 
utes greatly toahealth. 

The same principle applies to the necks of women. 
Some young women wear dresses and waists cut alto- 
gether too high in the neck, and a few wear them cut too 
low. Neither constant sweating nor constant chilling of 
the outer neck and throat ever did any one any good. 

Some men wear too heavy vests, and many women wear 
too tight corsets. Any compression of the liver is bad. 
Often an autopsy shows a liver distorted and almost 
separated into two parts from tight dressing in early 
youth continued until diabetes or cirrhosis has carried the 
patient off. And more than one stomach, instead of 
being horizontal, has turned vertical in self-defense. 
And very many diaphragms and bases of lungs are 
bleached and almost atrophied for the want of use sixteen 
hours a day. Tight corsets and tight belts will bring on 
death as surely as a noose about the neck, though not so 
quickly. They are especially dangerous to the persons 
most inclined to wear them, the corpulent. To wear 
tight clothes is one way to insure that a fat person will get 
fatter. Tight corsets, belts, vests, waists, coats are active 
assistants to pneumonia, to tuberculosis, to heart leakages 
and hypertrophies, to vertigoes, to diabetes and to stomach 
disorders of various kinds. 
\ 

HOW TO WEAR CLOTHES 

How to wear clothes is more important than how to buy 
them or how to cut, fit and sew them. Dresses and 
suits of clothes should not be worn over two or three days 
consecutively, but laid aside every day or so to aerate and 



196 THE HEALTH OF THE TEACHER 

to be shaped again. They should be put on right and 
worn right. Many persons do not know how to put on 
and to wear even the clothes that fit them. As one 
result, they allow their clothing to pull them out of form, 
to draw them into bad postures, even to encourage spinal 
curvatures. 

It is hygienically a fine thing to get home from school 
at 4.30 P. M. and going directly to one's room, to change 
every stitch of clothing upon the body even when one has 
no time to lie down and rest one's spine for a half hour 
or more, as every woman should do in order to live long 
and happily. When this cannot be done, at least take off 
the upper garments and rest the neck and shoulders. 

Many pains are directly due to wearing too heavy a 
weight upon the shoulders or hips for too long a time 
without rest and change. No two coats pull quite the 
same way. A change of pressure often relieves one 
greatly. 

Contrary to the popular notion about hygiene, a good 
walking outfit, heavy dress, short, with heavy walking 
shoes, " a sensible costume," is not at all the outfit for 
the schoolroom. For ladies, silks and hard twisted goods 
to turn the dust, of light weights ; the dresses well down 
over the high shoetops, not too long sleeves, made easy 
about the neck and throat, should always be chosen. A 
schoolroom is a working room like a ladies' sewing room, 
a gentleman's library, or the family sitting room ; it is not 
like a hunting lodge in the woods or a blacksmith's shop. 

COLORS 

Both men and women should choose for colors goods 
that make them cheerful. 

Blue in almost any shade or tone is generally accept- 
able. Some shades and tones of red are agreeable. 

Fresh browns in some shades are pleasant, though few 



CLOTHING AND FOOTWEAR 197 

browns are ever attractive except in furs and in velvets. 
Soft greens are winning. 

Greys are favorites with men and olive drabs have 
recently come in because of army popularity. They do 
not show dust ; but greys and drabs and most browns are 
melancholy. 

Unless brightened up with trimmings, neckties, ribbons 
in fine colors, all blacks are taboo for the schoolhouse. 
To one in mourning, black and white are a forgivable 
combination. Children are not so hard hearted as some 
imagine, and they appreciate true sorrow at its worth. 

Recent scientific tests show that a black cloth holds the 
actinic rays of sunlight and is therefore warmer in win- 
ter outdoors than a white cloth. Red also is a warm 
color. All blues are relatively cool. 

Nevertheless, generally, the garments of young and 
middle-aged teachers should be chosen primarily to ex- 
press joy in life, even gayety. A public school staff of 
men and women all dressed in colors defensive to the dis- 
closure of dust is inappropriate and should be transferred 
to the care of the public morgue where its gloom befits 
the scene. The teacher who is happy and who looks 
happy is the one for happy children and youth. 

Colors indirectly influence the health. Here individual 
tastes play their part. Blondes like pinks and blues and 
brunettes prefer purples, violets and yellows. The 
teacher of Swedish and Saxon children should remember 
this ; and the teacher of Russian Jews and Italians like- 
wise. The colors worn should fit the personality of the 
teacher. But only very old teachers look right in the 
sober, dignified colors. 

Of course, some persons are blind to colors as some 
are blind to forms. Some are deaf to tones and pitches. 
But the generality of teachers understand these matters 
as also do most children. 



198 THE HEALTH OF THE TEACHER 

Even flies respond to color, deserting rooms papered in 
some colors and lit through globes of such colors. 

Invalids are happier in rooms of some colors than of 
others. Delicate colors are, of course, the finest; but 
they should not be so delicate and fresh as to be charac- 
terless. 

Often, mixed and plaid colors go well in the school-^ 
room. Perhaps, color is a matter of indifference to some 
healthy persons, but it certainly is not a matter of indiffer- 
ence to most persons who teach school or to most children 
who attend. The white, light summer dresses are attrac- 
tive to all in the appropriate season. Teachers who 
wear ugly clothes are not generally the ones who are 
popular with the children. 

To make esthetic persons happy, the texture, which 
gives a feeling to the touch, makes some difference. 
There are harsh cloths that, notwithstanding beauty of 
color and of design, nevertheless do not feel right but 
make one uncomfortable because they irritate the fingers. 

Even the shirts of men that show only the cuffs and 
the small patch of bosom at each side of a four-in-hand 
necktie should be selected for cheerfulness and peace of 
mind as much as the neckties. 

Sometimes, the garters or stocking-supporters are un- 
comfortable ; more than one man has a lame neck because 
his suspenders do not give as they should to the move- 
ments of his body. 

In winter, the teacher needs warm gloves, wool or fur 
lined. Women teachers should use good fur muffs. 
Wastage of heat from the hands is especially to be 
avoided by persons past forty years of age, whose livers 
are never again to be as active as they were once. 

The purpose of attire is primarily to enable one to be 
comfortable always ; indoors and outdoors ; morning, 
noon, evening, midnight; whatever the season; whether 



CLOTHING AND FOOTWEAR 199 

the sky be sunny or cloudy ;' no matter what wind blows 
or fails to blow ; in dry weather and in wet. Health re- 
quires comfortable clothing. A person without the sense 
of bodily comfort and discomfort is unlikely either to 
live long or to be glad of living at all. This somesthesia 
is to be developed as an essential aid to strength, force 
and health. 

The clothing should not pull across the shoulders and 
induce spinal strains, or confine the lungs from properly 
expanding and induce yawning from insufficient aeration 
of the blood, or stop the circulation in the lower limbs, 
or in any way or to any degree cause one to feel imme- 
diate irritation or toward the close of the day any special 
local fatigue. To clothing for social propriety and for 
personal adornment, women pay altogether too much at- 
tention ; and to clothing at once respectable and that will 
wear well, men pay too much attention; and both men 
and women think too little of the first value of clothing, 
which is to protect the body against the weather and to 
promote the physical well-being thereby. 



CHAPTER XXVI 
PERIODICITIES, INCLUDING MENSTRUATION 

THE PULSE 

NO discoveries respecting the physiology of man are 
more important than those of the periodicities ; the 
ebbs and floods of the bodily life. We have long been 
familiar with the periodicity of the blood in the pulse. 
We know that the pulse runs in healthy persons anywhere 
from 50 to 90 beats a minute; to even 150 after a 2-mile 
run by young athletes. We have fixed upon 76 to 80 
beats as " standard," knowing that wide variations are 
permissible when the blood pressure is countervailing. 

The heart, then, is a periodic organ, a governor upon an 
engine, a timekeeper. 

Reading the pulse is a fine art. The expert diagnos- 
tician tells much by the pulse, chills, fevers, strokes, 
faintings, fears, anemia, and many other health conditions 
report themselves in the pulse. 

There are a dozen other periodicities. 

THE DIURNAL PERIOD 

Sleep is a periodicity. Man is meant to sleep from 
dark to dawn and to nap after breakfast and noon-meal. 
His pulse normally betrays this. There are many other 
symptoms also that show why we should sleep oftener 
than once daily. The variability of the blood pressure 
through the day shows this as well as the pulse. 

The person who says, " Oh, I can never sleep in the 
day time ! " and the one who says, " Why, if I take an 

200 



PERIODICITIES 201 

afternoon nap, I cannot sleep all night without a break ! " 
are asserting that by American habit and American paren- 
tal indoctrination their ancient, instinctive sleep-periodic- 
ity has been broken and that a heightened consciousness, 
a marked brain activity, has supervened. 



THE MENSAL PERIOD 

A third periodicity is equally well known and by women 
generally better understood ; the 2&% day moonmonth ebb 
and flood. This is a hundred times as strong in women 
as in men and is recorded in menstruation. 

In this 28% day period, strength and vitality run a 
cycle. Within the five days of normal menstruation, 
there is an ebb usually lowest through the second day. 
Two days after the menstrual flow, there is a marked 
return of vigor, which runs to a climax, varying in indi- 
viduals but usual about the eighth or tenth day. There- 
after, the strength runs down steadily. Many women are 
quite weak and feel discouraged for several days prior to 
the menstrual flow. The whole period can be definitely 
measured and the stream of vitality at its various heights 
and depths can be duly recorded. 

Any physiologist looks for considerable depression in 
any woman just prior to the monthly illness and through- 
out its term and for considerable elation for the ten days 
thereafter. It is, of course, within these ten days or so 
that the wedded woman conceives the child. No woman 
of good sense anticipates feeling "jfit for anything " more 
than twenty days in the month ; nor is such a woman sur- 
prised by feeling unequal to the tasks of life at least two 
or three days of the month. Such experiences are strictly 
normal. Fortunately, the tears and fears threaten her for 
but a few days; and joy and gayety quickly return to 
rule for most of the time. Woman is born to vastly 



202 THE HEALTH OF THE TEACHER 

more trouble than is man ; but she has vastly more power 
of recuperation. 

This same moonmonth periodicity affects men, though 
but slightly. There is, of course, no such accompanying 
phenomenon as comes in the life of woman. But even a 
man has every four weeks or so a week of comparative 
dolefulness ; and should govern himself accordingly. In 
this fourth week, he is especially liable to catch cold and 
to feel blue and to be unable to work vigorously because 
his inner fires are burning low. 

Between the diurnal sleep periodicity and this mensal 
periodicity, there intervenes the hebdomadal (seven day) 
periodicity, which has been the natural law basis of -the 
Mosaic Commandment of work six days and rest the 
seventh. Unfortunately for religious purposes, the true 
succession on natural principles is as follows, viz. : ist. 
week 6 days work ; i day rest ; total 7 days. Re- 
peat in all 20 times. Then I7th week 7 days work, i 
day rest. Total no days. By this means, Nature keeps 
track of the extra 54 day in each moonmonth. 

Because of this law of the moon, for about four 
months, we have a bad health turn every Sunday ; then 
for four months more, every Monday ; then every Tues- 
day. We cannot help this. All that we can do is to 
understand it. We can no more change such periodicity 
than we can live without salt in the blood. 

Sometimes, a silly person says to another, " Think 
faster." The average normal young woman thinks 150 
thoughts a minute. No power on earth can change this. 
By a blow, we can shock a heart out of its beat; with 
drugs, we can speed it up or slow it down. Nevertheless, 
every heart left to itself has a characteristic beat. 

A man who finds himself feeling poorly every Friday 
for a while may take drugs and kill his sensation ; but he 
will never change his tendency to a seven-day period ; 



PERIODICITIES 203 

a buoyant Tuesday means a depressed Friday. The only 
moral of hygienic importance is to adjust one's tasks 
accordingly. 

The diurnal and the mensal ebbs and floods are far 
greater than the hebdomadal. 

A woman teacher should be careful not to try to attend 
to important business with the school authorities on her 
poor days. 

There is a serious difference in strength and health in 
all men and women from season to season. In normal 
years, January and February are the best months of 
health; and July and August are the worst. We are 
strongest in midwinter and weakest in midsummer. It is 
a very great misfortune for teachers that the annual 
examinations for the promotion of children and youth 
come in May and June ; they should come in February. 
They come when the vitality is running down, and help it 
to run down faster. 



THE ANNUAL PERIOD 

In sound principle, there should be no examinations 
covering a year's work. The notion is sheer superstition, 
supported by the mediaeval beliefs that all minds are 
alike and that brain and mind have no relation whatso- 
ever. When schools learn the knowledge and wisdom 
that a few of their professors are valiantly trying to 
spread abroad through the school year, September to 
June, annual examinations will be as dead as hereditary 
autocracy. All courses should last according to the 
norms of their subjects, that is, controlled by their own 
inner logic, and students should pursue each course until 
they can fairly exemplify its principles and methods. 

Vital statistics prove conclusively that we are most 
liable to serious disease and to death in the summer 



204 THE HEALTH OF THE TEACHER 

months ; this is -true of all human beings at all ages, not 
only of babies and the very aged, as some suppose. By 
taking midsummer vacations, we resist this depression 
and thereby promote health and prolong life. 

There are just three kinds of teachers who should study 
in summer schools and then not later than eleven o'clock 
in the morning and further provided that they take 
afternoon naps every school day. These three sets of 
teachers are as follows, viz. 

1. Those whose physicians can honorably report that 
they are physically well and rested. 

2. Those taking courses in hygiene and physical exer- 
cise under medical direction definitely designed to improve 
their health. 

3. Those not perfectly well and not yet positively ill 
taking summer courses that will make their work the fol- 
lowing year much easier, much less wearing, so that the 
summer study will greatly lessen the winter worry and 
fatigue. 

All other teachers should either rest and play at the 
oceanside or in the mountains all summer or else do 
physical work under at least fairly hygienic conditions. 
There are just two ways for a brain- worker to make his 
summer contribute to his health and strength; outright 
recreation, steady muscular toil. For most teachers, the 
former is much better than the latter. 

This seasonal periodicity through the year means that 
we can safely load up through December, January and 
February, but that we should begin to ease off in March. 
It is very bad to plunge in and work furiously in Septem- 
ber and October. If we could make Easter the time of 
vacation and of relief from toil, it would be far better 
than the present fortnight of holidays in December and 
early January. This is the true succession, viz. Sep- 
tember, October, November, December, January, 5 



PERIODICITIES 205 

months, work; February, vacation; March, April, May, 
June, July, 5 months, work ; August, vacation. 

Those who take real vacations in summer are stronger 
in November than in May. Otherwise, there is nothing 
to choose between the two months as to the strength of 
the ordinary man. 

Under even normal conditions, the body weighs 5 to 10 
per cent, more in February than in August; and the 
muscles are 25 to 40 per cent, stronger. Under the ab- 
normal conditions of public school teaching in cities, the 
contrasts are generally twice as great. Many women 
teachers are muscularly " weak as water," in midsum- 
mer. 

THE SEVEN YEAR PERIOD (?) 

A periodicity but recently discovered is of startling 
interest. The members of every family display a char- 
acteristic hereditary tendency to illness at regular inter- 
vals varying for the respective families. A few cases 
illustrate this, viz. 

W. S. C. was very ill at 8 years of age; at 16; at 24; 
at 31 ; at 39 ; and at 50 years. 

J. H. T. was seriously ill at 8 years; at 14; at 21 ; at 
28 ; at 34 ; at 41 ; and at .52 years of age. 

L. C. H. was so ill at 8 years as to be despaired of, 
again at 18 years of age; at 28; and again at 35 years of 
age. 

Two sisters ; born five years apart ; died respectively at 
45 years, I week and at 44 years, n months and 13 weeks 
of age. 

Dr. A. G. H. and Dr. W. P. H. were father and son. 
At fifty years of age, the father went to Europe to consult 
a famous young physician in Antwerp for nervous break- 
down and insomnia. Twenty-nine years afterwards, the 
son at fifty years of age ill from the same cause, visited 



206 THE HEALTH OF THE TEACHER 

the same physician ; who looked up the case of the father, 
and found that each had told of illness in their lives at the 
same ages and of the same character. This, of course 
would not be true of infectious diseases; but it is often 
true of illnesses self-originated. 

These are the characteristic weak years of men of Eng- 
lish ancestry, (tall, slender, impulsive, persistent), viz. 

At 7 years old ; at 14 ; at 21 ; at 28 ; at 35 ; at 42 ; at 49 ; 
and at 56. At still higher ages, the periodicity seems to 
be lost in general decline of all physical powers. 

A man of marked Anglo-Saxon type had inflammatory 
rheumatism at 28 years of age ; typhoid fever at 36 ; brain 
fever at 42; erysipelas at 56 (recovered well) ; and died 
at 64 years of age of cancer of the stomach. Notwith- 
standing this amazing record of bad disease, he weighed 
200 pounds at 25 years of age ; 225 at 40 years of age ; 
240 at 50 years ; and 190 at 60 years, and was of extraor- 
dinary muscular strength until his last illness. 

The father of this man died of bronchitis at 56 years 
of age ; and his mother of old age, sitting in a chair, read- 
ing the Bible, at 78 years of age. 

The life records o.f many persons seem to indicate a 
human tendency to an ebb-and-flood period of health of 
seven years, viz. two years of poor health, followed by 
five of good health, yet modified considerably by peculiar 
climatic conditions and by serious troubles or by very 
great successes. 

With respect to this periodicity, the hygienic question 
is, What can we do to lessen the depth of depression in 
the ebb of the tide ? 

Having discovered his own tendency to go to pieces 
every seven years, C. W. at forty years of age took a year 
of vacation, which he repeated at forty-six years of age, 
and again at fifty-two, upon the hypothesis that this 
would completely break the spell. And he was not ill 



PERIODICITIES 207 

from the age of forty years until fifty-seven, the last time 
he was under observation. He took these vacations, 
though a teacher ; but he was fortunate in dealing with a 
governing board willing to grant leaves of absence. Un- 
questionably, the sabbatical year of rest has a physiologi- 
cal basis. It is granted in some colleges and normal 
schools and in a few cities. 



NUMBER OF THOUGHTS 

The human body has several other demonstrable peri- 
odicities but none of equal hygienic import with these. 
We have a trick of fatigue every twenty minutes or so, 
when we become inattentive and take an almost uncon- 
trollable rest. We think about 135 thoughts a minute 
(men of twenty-five or thirty years of age, of Anglo- 
Saxon stock) ; within each thought or stage of conscious- 
ness, there is a periodic flow. We are keenest in our 
attention about every other half-second. Indeed, it is 
demonstrable as a matter of physiological psychology that 
most persons do not think at all fully one- third of every 
half second. Between every two thoughts, almost every 
one goes to sleep for at least one-fourth of a second. 

THE SEX PERIOD 

A third periodicity is that concerned with the sex life 
of man. It differs greatly in different men, especially 
according to race, and concerns their normal sex- func- 
tioning. 

In both sexes, there are according to sex, three periods, 
viz. : 

i. Prepubertal. 2. Sex-vital. 3. Post-sex-vital. 

The term of the first period ends with girls according 
to race and to health at various times. The healthy 



208 THE HEALTH OF THE TEACHER 

Italian girl begins to menstruate at eleven years, occa- 
sionally at ten, which is precocious for persons of the 
" white race." The blond Swede girl comes to this 
change at eighteen years of age. But the usual time is 
twelve or thirteen years. The most precocious of all 
human races are the Senegambian negroes, who become 
sexed at eight or ten years of age, even the boys. The 
Scot, the blond Saxon, the Norwegian and the Swede are 
all altricious. It is not unusual for their youths not to 
come to puberty until eighteen years of age, even twenty 
years in some cases. 

The sex-vital period runs for most American adults 
from twelve to forty-five years in women and from four- 
teen to fifty-six in men; but the upper limits are very 
irregular. Men and women who live quiet, unexcited, 
intellectual lives may retain their sex-vitality far beyond 
these limits. 

In the last years of sex-vitality, there is a marked 
tendency to mental depression, which, however, may, to 
a considerable extent, be controlled. It is unpleasant to 
realize that one has turned downhill, that one's best days 
are past, that youth and vigor and buoyant hope will 
never be recovered ; but even this has its compensations. 
We are always somewhat charitable toward grey hairs. 
As long as the slo wing-down of the machine is counter- 
balanced by improvement in the quality of the judgment, 
as long as decline in alertness is equalled by increase in 
sympathy, the man and the woman who teach will have 
fully as much success in the years from forty-five to sixty 
as in any other years ; often, they have more. 

In most cases, however, when past sixty years of age, 
the teacher needs to be viewed kindly and gratefully for 
what has been achieved. It is sheer vanity for really 
old men and women, say seventy-five years old, to 
imagine that their performances are up to the old stand- 



PERIODICITIES 209 

ards set by themselves at their best. Still, there are in 
some schools, teachers doing good service after three 
score years and ten; it is, however, a service mainly to 
their associates and to their institutions rather than to 
their students, the service of valuable advice, caution, 
counsel to the less experienced. 

In this three-stage periodicity of the sex-life, sound 
hygiene sets up several standards ; some of these are dif- 
ficult, even painful, for some persons to follow. 

For most women, there is a time of greatest inner de- 
sire to marry; yet very many women teachers in cities 
never do marry. The young women up to twenty years, 
and even twenty-five, does not care much. There is 
plenty of time yet to choose a good man for a husband. 
But after thirty years of age, many a young woman 
wakes up to the truth about herself ; and wishes that 
she had married or could yet marry. It is undeniable 
that many women from thirty to thirty-eight and forty 
years of age really are living down a positive sorrow 
because city teaching has shut them away from acquaint- 
ance with men eligible to marry. Thereafter, for such 
women, unless they do marry, through a period of six 
to ten years, there is a positive, sometimes an openly 
displayed, dislike, even antagonism to men and boys. 

Such a case was that of A. L. J., who at forty-two 
years of age was a snarling, unhappy, too heavy " old 
maid." One day, she awoke to the truth; that she was 
unhappy because she had no husband, no children, no 
home. She quit public school teaching that year and 
became a matron in a home-school for orphans ; and has 
been there ten years, contented and radiating good cheer 
to all. 

L. T. S. at twenty-four years of age, to use her own 
statement to her physician, " got mad because most girls 
had husbands." She left school teaching and became, a 






210 THE HEALTH OF THE TEACHER 

city newspaper reporter. After two years in this field, 
she explained that " now that she spent her life around, 
with men, she was perfectly happy to live alone, when 
off duty in her own rooms, away from all people, men 
included." In her ca?se, there was an intellectual sex- 
psychosis. She needed a more general companionship 
than schools afford. 



IS IT WISE FOR WOMEN WHO HAVE LONG BEEN 
TEACHERS TO MARRY? 

The question that forms the title here is often asked, 
and often it is answered in a way to discourage the ques- 
tioners. 

Case i was that of a lady who taught till the age of 
forty-one in a great city high school with marked success. 
She was married by a bachelor of fine education and 
character. Their one child is today a teacher of splendid 
success in the same high school. This lady herself is 
still living and in good health at nearly seventy years of 
age. 

Case 2 was that of a woman who at thirty-four years 
of age, after teaching in rural schools sixteen years, was 
married by a man of forty-nine, a banker. They have 
had six children, of whom five are living, and several 
grandchildren. The only peculiarity of the children is 
that they are one and all exceptionally talented, the 
youngest being a combatant troop commander in the 
great war. The lady herself is well, though at the 
Psalmist's term of life. 

The myth to the effect that women who have taught 
school for years should not marry lest some serious dam- 
age take place to their health and that teaching forms an 
experience that bars the hope of happy marriage is with- 
out any support in fact. Of course, when the condi- 



PERIODICITIES 211 

tions of teaching are such as to have seriously impaired 
the general health, in some instances, though relatively 
not many, a woman should not marry until she has had 
some period of rest and recuperation. But in almost all 
cases, the woman teacher, being, as she usually is, intel- 
ligent in her choice of a husband, marries well and estab- 
lishes a good home and raises a family that is a credit 
to herself and to the nation. 

No woman, whether a teacher or not, who has a normal 
ancestry and moderately good or better health, should 
shut herself out from the hope of happy marriage. 

On the other hand, no woman teacher should govern 
her own social life out of school through a general ambi- 
tion to find a husband and thereby escape from teaching ; 
this in itself makes her restless and damages her health. 
To speak candidly, it lessens the probability that she 
will marry. 

Yet there is Case 3, of a woman who after teaching to 
the age of almost forty years, married a man younger 
than herself against the advice of friends, but who has 
established a happy home. After five years of married 
life, she has become cheerful and healthy and entirely 
free from some of the nervous troubles hitherto charac- 
teristic of her diathesis. 

There are but few unhappy marriages of teachers not 
young when they married, for the sufficient reason that 
such women do not marry men of inferior character and 
ability. 

This question of whether or, not a woman of ten or 
more years of experience in teaching should or should not 
marry is not to be confused with the question whether or 
not a married woman should continue to teach. There is 
a Case 4 upon this point. Here both man and wife teach 
and that in the same high school. They have two chil- 
dren. But the wife did not teach until the younger child 



212 THE HEALTH OF THE TEACHER 

was seven years old and spent her day in a primary 
grade room in the same building with her mother. 

In general, however, the experience both of the school 
executives and of the physicians who have had to deal 
with mothers as teachers is that women with families 
belong for their own sakes at home; and only the most 
serious of financial situations should cause them to be- 
come bread-winners. 

As to whether a young woman who happens to have 
taught a few years or so should marry, there is obvi- 
ously nothing adverse to say on hygienic grounds. Na- 
ture intends most men and women to take mates and to 
become parents. The same merciful and benignant laws 
and forces that rebuild the shattered bones of wounded 
men and restore the almost destroyed tissues after a ter- 
rible fever of months and that construct man out of " the 
dust of the earth " seem to delight in the repeated marvel 
of making good mothers out of even frail girls. 

Teaching is the finest of preparations for bringing up 
children in the home successfully. 

The whole question here is but another illustration of 
the dangers of permitting a fear-psychosis to become a 
fear-neurosis. Men are not meant to live by fear but by 
faith, in the absence of fact. There was a Case 5, not to 
be . forgotten by those of us who know it. She was a 
slight little woman of uncommon beauty and attractive- 
ness, whom a young man wished to marry ; but she kept 
on teaching for years and years. At last, she overcame 
her fears and did marry the man. Eight years later, she 
happened to meet one who asked her about her home. 
Her answer was this, " I ought to have married right 
away." She has three children, all of them healthy. She 
had been " told " by some irresponsible persons that she 
had broken her health permanently by overwork in school 



PERIODICITIES 213 

and college and " must not think " of marrying. Fortu- 
nately for herself, her husband-to-be never agreed with 
the diagnosis of the " friends." 

All women in teaching and especially all women who 
being teachers are engaged to marry should have good 
family physicians with whom they may discuss according 
to need their own health affairs. 

It is an opinion based upon some experiences of a con- 
crete character that one cause of the myth to the effect 
that veteran woman teachers should not marry is the 
indubitable fact that school authorities, both superintend- 
ents and board members, do not like to lose good teachers 
from their forces ; therefore, they encourage this myth. 

No one should marry, whether a teacher or not, who 
has insufficient confidence in the sanity of the universe to 
believe that all things work together for good to those 
who conduct themselves according to principle. Human- 
ity needs the homes set up by just such women as have 
learned much about life through the experiences of the 
schoolroom. 

There is a certain pride in having a mate that, being 
denied, revenges itself upon the character, conduct and 
health. Otherwise, it is a common opinion both of 
physicians and of hygienists that the advantages of being 
married over the single life, alike for women and for men, 
are fully offset by -the disadvantages. Marriage and child- 
birth and child-rearing in the home cause in young wives 
and mothers even higher sickness and death rates than 
those of young teachers, bad as these are; and many a 
young teacher- father wears out rather because of his 
home cares than because of his school work. 

The unmarried are unfair to themselves in not regard- 
ing the facts of the envied situations of the married. 
At any rate, the celibate life is measurelessly better than 



2i 4 THE HEALTH OF THE TEACHER 

a life of marriage to any unfit mate, -than which in- 
deed nothing is more destructive to health and to hap- 
piness. 

There are several marked tendencies among women 
teachers regarding marriage that are of hygienic concern. 

One is a tendency to long courtships prior to marriage 
in order to save money with which to start the home. 
In nine cases out of ten, a long courtship endured by a 
woman while teaching school is injurious to her health. 
This is conspicuously true when it involves sitting up 
late nights with one's lover. Such a courtship often 
leads to poor school work and to such difficulties with 
the school authorities as to induce mental anxiety and 
physical overstrain. From the hygienic point of view, 
a woman who foresees that her future marriage is far 
in the future should not see her lover more than one 
evening a week, preferably Fridays and holidays. Nor 
should she write daily long letters to him, a proceeding 
suitable only for fiancees with nothing else to do, and 
entirely free from daily toil for livelihood. 

A second tendency for women teachers is to marry 
widowers with families ; that is, to become second wives. 
To this, the woman teacher feels an instinctive resist- 
ance that often makes her irritable at school ; especially 
because other women are very apt to make unpleasant 
comments accordingly. In such cases, generally it is the 
woman teacher who delays the marriage; which is un- 
fortunate for all concerned, including her own peace of 
mind. 

Hygiene is not wholly an affair of the body, a series 
of problems in physiology; it has its definite psychologi- 
cal aspects. Some day, women as a sex will wake up to 
the truth that in respect to marriage a fairly universal 
rule of wisdom is " When in doubt, don't." 

Incidentally, it may be said that an intelligent woman, 



PERIODICITIES 215 

engaged to marry, will not try to see her finance when 
she is either tired out or ill. It is a fairly universal rule 
of wisdom to avoid companionship with others; love, 
business, anything whatever, when really fit only for 
solitude and sleep. 



PERIODICITIES AND DIAGNOSIS 

Periodicity is one of the several keys to health ; and in 
none of its hygienic implications, is it more significant 
than in the emptying of the bowel and of the bladder. 
While variation has its uses in respect to some bodily 
functions, under ideal conditions the bowels would move 
with clocklike regularity at exactly the same hour at least 
once daily from year end to year end and urination 
would be equally regular at least three times daily. In 
these matters of excretion, regularity is essential to con- 
tinued health. Dreadful illnesses and even deaths have 
frequently resulted from failures of bowel and bladder 
to release their contents. The records of pathology upon 
this point are amazingly extensive ; but they do not belong 
in books of hygiene save in reference as warnings. 

There are healthy persons who have lived to great ages, 
though having regularly several movements of the bowel 
every day ; and there are such persons who have urinated 
regularly many times each day and even several times 
each night. But irregular and infrequent excretion in- 
variably shortens life with noteworthy decisiveness. 

Every good general physician relies for general diag- 
nosis upon these few signs, viz. 

1. Tongue and throat. 

2. Pulse and blood pressure. 

3. Evacuations. 

In nine office calls in ten, these tell the physician all 
that he needs to know ; and in three house calls out of 



2i6 THE HEALTH OF THE TEACHER 

four, they tell him why the patient is unable to visit his 
office. 

Pulse, blood pressure, and excretion are all functions 
largely of periodicity. 

The man whose mind victimizes his body is the one 
who is constipated or who has urinary irregularities. In 
the strictest of physiological system, every book and paper 
on hygiene should begin with the statement, More im- 
portant than diet or even sleep is regularity of bowel 
and bladder movement. Every person with any inclina- 
tion to visit the toilet should immediately do so ; and all 
civilized buildings and procedures should be arranged 
accordingly. 

There was a case of a teacher who under peculiar 
social surveillance one day felt unable to leave the room 
for fourteen hours continuously. An illness resulted that 
lasted six months ; and life was saved only by an opera- 
tion. Her school was being visited by several commit- 
tees anxious to inspect her school exhibit; there were 
always visitors; and she was too modest to ask to be 
excused. 

Excitement, false modesty, pressure of duty, oversleep- 
ing, wrong diet, all these affect the periodicity of high 
strung, sensitive teachers, who must, therefore, deliber- 
ately plan time and opportunity for perfect regularity 
for these functions. The particular hours are much less 
important than following the principle of regularity. But 
there is no better time for the daily bowel movement than 
in the course of rising, exercising, bathing and dressing 
for the first morning meal. The earlier in the day gen- 
erally the better. 

Those who have irregular or infrequent bowel move- 
ments and those who urinate more than a dozen times each 
twenty-four hours require medical advice. 



CHAPTER XXVII 
CARE OF THE TEETH 

ORAL hygiene has become one of the popular themes 
of health betterment. The school teacher has a 
throat usually filled with dust and often infected with 
the germs of disease ; and tired from too much vocaliza- 
tion. He has also peripheral nerves robbed of the nor- 
mal blood supply because of the over-action of the brain 
and spinal cord from the necessities of school instruction 
and discipline. The fingers, the toes, the teeth, the eyes 
and ears of teachers often ache from want of blood irri- 
gation. 

In consequence, teachers have an excessive tendency 
to tooth and gum anemia, and therefore to dental caries 
and to gum pyorrhea. This general tendency to tooth 
and gum deterioration, can, however, be distinctly coun- 
teracted by the exertion of special care in tooth-brushing. 

Few persons brush their teeth and gums properly or 
sufficiently. 

The toothbrush should be soft or medium, never hard. 
Its bristles should not be long, but short. It should be 
cleaned in very hot water with good soap (not tooth- 
paste) at least once daily. 

The teeth should be brushed up and down rather than 
across. 

The gums should be thoroughly brushed. 

The total time needed per day to keep an ordinary set 
of teeth in first class condition so far as concerns oral 
cleanliness and gum exercise is eight minutes. Prefer- 
ably, one should brush the teeth and gums three times 



218 THE HEALTH OF THE TEACHER 

a day; invariably, at least twice a day. Unless taken 
violently ill, one should never go to bed without thor- 
oughly 

1. Brushing the teeth, 

2. Brushing the gums, 

3. Gargling the throat, and 

4. Drinking a glass of cold water. 

Anyone who has the misfortune to wear a plate of 
false teeth should thoroughly clean them at least every 
night and keep them overnight in a glass of sterilized 
water. Wearing them at night (as some do) is exceed- 
ingly unhygienic ; and it has caused more than one death 
by strangulation. 

As for the various dentifrices, some are really good, 
some unobjectionable, and some bad. 

Grit, free alkali, sugar and saccharine, strong flavors, 
are all bad in a dentifrice; which should be perfectly 
smooth, neutral, almost tasteless, slightly antiseptic, and 
made of pure soap and little else. 

For a mouth wash, boracic acid, much diluted, is good. 
Some patent preparations also are good. 

Castile soap and weak boric acid are quite good enough 
for tooth cleansing and mouth rinsing in most cases. 

A decade or so ago, bridges and crowns were popular 
dental devices; but the scientific study and treatment of 
pyorrhea has convinced most modern dentists that bridges 
are undesirable. They do well for a few years; but 
usually they end by destroying the few good teeth to 
which they are fastened. A partial plate is far more 
easily cleaned. 

PYORRHEA 

Pyorrhea (or " Rigg's Disease ") causes more teeth 
to be lost than does dental caries in all its forms. It at- 



CARE OF THE TEETH 219 

tacks the gums of perfectly sound teeth as well as those 
of decayed teeth. 

There was the case of a man who had a persistent and 
incurable abscess in his lower front jaw. Four sound 
teeth were taken out; but the discharge continued. He 
was examined by two dentists, one family physician and 
one expert surgeon, all of whom agreed upon a diagnosis 
to the effect that he had a necrosis of the jaws. However, 
he went to the X-ray examiner, who upon photograph- 
ing the jaw discovered that his left lower stomach tooth 
had a root extending at a right angle to the very middle of 
his front jaw ; upon the end of this root was an abscess 
that the dentist easily reached by cutting through the 
gum. The root of this peculiar tooth was then rilled. 
The trouble, therefore, was not pyorrhea; nor was it 
necrosis ; but it was a simple abscess. 

The prophylaxis against both dental caries and pyor- 
rhea is to keep the mouth and teeth free of germs. 

The care of dental cavities belongs in surgery, not in 
hygiene. It pays to get the teeth into good order at 
any cost and then to visit a dentist at least once every 
three months to see that they are in good condition. 
When one cannot honestly afford dentistry, when to 
make a dental bill is really fraudulent, it is far better 
to have a badly decayed tooth drawn than to allow it to 
remain in the mouth poisoning the tonsils and infecting 
the entire tract of the alimentary canal. A decaying 
tooth is an enemy to the health of the entire body. The 
pus from a suppurating gum or from a discharging tooth 
abscess is also an enemy to the general health. It has 
cost many a man the eyesight of one or both eyes. To an 
infected tooth, his family physician charged the death of 
Colonel Roosevelt as the direct cause of his heart failure 
at the end. 

Pyorrhea first displays itself in redness, swelling and 



220 THE HEALTH OF THE TEACHER 

soreness of the gums. As a general rule, one should not 
brush bodily surfaces that bleed, but the only preventive 
of further development of pyorrhea beyond this stage 
is gum brushing whether the gums bleed or not. They 
need fresh blood ; there must be set up a positive circula- 
tion to clean out the dead tissue and the poisonous blood 
cells. After thorough brushing, rinse the mouth with a 
very dilute antiseptic. (" French Mixture " is good; this 
is not a patent medicine but standard.) After some 
bleeding, the next stage will be shrinkage of the gums. 
This is a sign that the treatment is doing good. 

There is a notion that tooth-brushing tears the gum 
away from the teeth. A sound gum was never torn away 
from a sound tooth by any wet tooth brush used with 
the bristles toward the tooth. When a toothbrush causes 
the gum to pull away from the tooth, it is because the 
gum is diseased usually from pyorrhea, sometimes from a 
gum abscess, which may not have been caused by pyor- 
rhea but otherwise as from decayed food. 

In its early stages, pyorrhea can be cured by gum 
brushing and mouth hygiene, as every competent dentist 
knows. It is one of the strangest of diseases. It may 
attack simply one side of the face, or one jaw; or even 
one tooth, and never spread. It is, however, especially 
active against the lower front teeth, and the wisdom 
teeth. 

One prophylactic measure of high importance is to 
keep the necks of the teeth perfectly free from tartar. 
This may require the efforts of a dentist to scrape the 
teeth where the tartar has already started. 

Invalids and child-bearing women are peculiarly liable 
to pyorrhea. 

In one instance, two teachers roomed together. One 
had a poor lot of teeth and pyorrhea ; the other had per- 
fect teeth. At the end of six months, the second teacher 



CARE OF THE TEETH 221 

developed one of the worst types of cases; all the back 
teeth, upper and lower, were affected, and suddenly no 
less than twelve abscesses developed. Heart failure also 
appeared from focal infection. At this stage, both physi- 
cian and dentist were called in, and for more than a 
year, the very life of this young woman was in danger. 
It required two months in a sanitarium and six months 
of rest to restore even fair health. Though the teeth 
were saved, after two years, the heart was still feeble; 
and one valve seriously impaired. 

Keep away from every person who has pyorrhea. Phy- 
sicians debate whether or not it is hereditary ; but every 
medical man knows that it is actively communicable upon 
the breath, upon towels and upon insufficiently washed 
dishes. 



CHAPTER XXVIII 
CARE OF THE EYES 

THE eyes of teachers are subjected to strains of 
three kinds, which give rise to various aches, pains 
and diseases, both special and general. 

Strains of the first kind are due to overuse of the eyes 
in reading the papers of the pupils and the books necessary 
for lesson-preparation, usually by artificial light in the 
evening. 

Strains of the second kind are due to living in a school- 
room six or seven hours daily with light often straight 
in the face or perhaps upon one side, usually the right. 

Strains of the third kind are due to spending too many 
hours a day using the eyes in strong light and too few at 
night in absolute darkness and sleep. 

Nature never made many eyes for any such use as 
most teachers imagine theirs were designed for. 

What damage is done to anyone's eyes by these several 
strains depends, first, upon the nature of one's eyes ; and, 
second, upon the severity of the strains. 

It will pay anyone whether a teacher or not to take a 
good look at one's own eyes and perhaps then to have 
them investigated by a thoroughly competent and ex- 
perienced oculist, a trained physician with the specialty 
of eye-treatment, no mere optician, optometrist or jeweler 
who fits glasses. 

Anyone who wishes to get a line upon one's own eyes 
will note these points, viz. 

i. Whether there is any inflammation whatever of the 

222 



CARE OF THE EYES 223 

cornea, which should be hard-boiled egg (or china) white. 
A blood-shot or even blood-streaked eye is not in good 
condition. 

2. What is the distance between the eyes compared with 
the length of the face ? This gives a means of estimating 
the strain upon the external eye-muscles. Persons with 
eyes very close together or with eyes very wide apart 
should not do much reading of any kind. 

3. The color of the eyes. This is determined by the 
blood-current with or without direct local pigmentation. 
Albino, grey and blue eyes have no secondary or brown 
pigmentation. Yellow, green (cat) and hazel, brown, 
brown black, and so-called " black " eyes have an increas- 
ing amount of secondary pigmentation respectively. The 
lighter the eye, the less it can stand the light. Large, 
light, normal eyes see exceedingly well; small, dark eyes 
are protected from seeing too well. Light eyes are easily 
tired; small dark eyes wear well. Most teachers have 
middle color eyes, dark blues and light browns ; tech- 
nically known as 6 or 7 in the scale of color up to 10. 
The albino eye is pink, or even bright red. It requires 
smoked glasses in sunlight. It is not light blue, as some 
imagine. It has no pigment whatever. 

4. The size of the eyeballs and of the pupils. The 
larger, the weaker, the less able to stand wear and tear. 
But small eyes should not be tormented with details, 
whether they are light, middle or dark. 

Only an oculist knows for stfre whether one is far- 
sighted, normal-sighted, or near-sighted, or whether the 
poor vision is due to some other defect. Only the eye- 
doctor knows for sure whether one is esopheric, exophoric, 
heterophoric or normal in the swing of the eye-muscles. 
And only such a specialist can tell for sure whether at 
forty years of age or older one is beginning to suffer 
from old age of the eye, presbyopia. 



224 THE HEALTH OF THE TEACHER 

But any person of physiological inclination can tell 
whether or not he had better consult an oculist. It should 
be easy to read the print of this book (ten-point) at just 
14 inches from the eyes. It should be easy to tell at a 
glance c from e and W from M and Z. O should look 
perfectly oval. Each eye should, of course, be tested 
alone, with the other shut. 

And one's head should not ache from reading even two 
hours at a stretch. 

The results of these several varieties of eyestrains in- 
clude headaches, stomach-nausea, mental depression, di- 
rect eye-pains, and dislike of school-teaching. 

Anyone, whether wearing glasses or not, does well to 
understand and to practise both massage and hydrotherapy 
for the eyes. If possible, prevent overstrain. Keep the 
brim of the hat down over the eyes when facing sun- 
light or any other strong light. Do not use a very strong 
light when reading. Do not stay till eleven o'clock p. M. 
in a brilliantly lighted hall. Do not read fine print at all. 
Never spend five consecutive hours reading the papers 
of pupils. These are all good rules. Keep out of strong 
winds. Wear blue or smoked glasses when there is sun- 
shine on snow. There are more good rules. Neverthe- 
less, the eyes of teachers are often strained. 

A gentle, firm massage with clean-washed hands all 
around the eye-orbit and over the back of the neck and 
upper spine often helps tired eye-muscles. 

Hot towels upon the closed eyelids, the face and fore- 
head often help. The temperature should be at least 
110 and better I25-I4O and even more. 

There were two cases of severe eyestrain with snow- 
blindness. One treatment used a dark room, lukewarm 
water, and drastic food regulation. The patient was 
cured in three months. The other treatment used the 
dark room, very hot water 150 no food, plenty of 



CARE OF THE EYES 225 

lemonade and orangeade. The patient recovered in ten 
days. In each case, the eyes were tomato-red with light- 
phobia. Each physician supplemented the above treat- 
ment with one application of the artificial leech, to re- 
duce the blood congestion. Two cases do not settle such 
a question ; but the best oculists today never use water 
upon the eyes at less than 98. The ice treatment has 
been utterly rejected. 

The eye is both a delicate and a tough organ ; internally 
exceedingly delicate, externally tough. It will stand un- 
der the eyelid great heat, and will clear up congestions 
when so stimulated. 

Esophoria, which is due to having too short internal 
eye muscles, produces both epileptic fits and mental de- 
rangements. Mild cases are relieved by prism glasses; 
but severe cases require that the muscles be buttonholed 
and lengthened by surgery. 

Some headaches are relieved by plunging the head into 
cold water and reducing the temperature thereby. The 
eyes must be kept tightly closed. For the final plunge of 
the head use water at 100 and open the eyes. Rub 
head, neck and face but not too close about the eyes 
thereafter with a coarse towel. It is unfortunate that 
many women because of their heavy heads of hair are 
unable to use this treatment; yet a wet compress will 
afford them some relief. 

It is highly important to avoid taking cold in the eyes in 
winter winds, which do as much harm as summer sun- 
shine to the eyes. Never sit on the sea sand with head 
and eyes unprotected facing upon the sunny sand and 
sea. 

When something seems to have gotten into the eye, 
three hypotheses may be ventured, viz. 

I. The eye is slightly inflamed, and some capillary is 
making trouble. 



226 THE HEALTH OF THE TEACHER 

2. Something extraneous is in the eye ; but it will soon 
dissolve away or slide toward the tear duct. 

3. The something is hard, has cut into the tissue, and 
will stay there until removed. 

The remedy for the first condition is, hot water com- 
press and absolute rest for the eye in the dark. 

The remedy for the second condition is patient wait- 
ing, with or without syringing with hot water. 

But the remedy for the third condition is often diffi- 
cult to find. It is indeed often hard for the patient him- 
self to discover where the hard particle is and what it is. 
Soft coal melts away ; but a hard coal cinder does not. A 
very sharp splinter of steel may so imbed itself in the 
eye as to cause serious inflammation and finally to result 
in the loss of the eye. 

When blowing the nose and dashing hot water into 
the eye do no good in dislodging the foreign particle, the 
safe thing to do is to see a physician immediately. When 
it is impossible to secure a physician, roll some cotton 
upon a round stick, wet it with glycerin or some other 
emollient and let a friend roll back the eyelid and explore 
and try to wipe out the particle ; but the very greatest 
care must be used lest the foreign matter cut still deeper 
into the cornea. (The competent physician uses a camel's 
hair brush or the equivalent.) When the cotton ball 
fails, bandage up the eye in a clean handkerchief around 
the forehead, and travel quietly until a physician is 
found. 

Many an eye has been lost because it was fooled with 
by ignorant persons. It is far worse to lose an eye than 
an arm or leg, especially for a woman. 



CHAPTER XXIX 
CARE OF THE EARS 

/^ONTRARY to the popular impression, the ear is 
V^* more liable to troubles than the eye. It is open 
to every kind of infection from the throat and via the 
throat to infections from the nose, from the mouth and 
from the stomach. It is also, of course, open to attacks 
from without through the meatus. 

Deafness is more common than blindness, though no 
doubt less serious in a civilization like ours, which ap- 
peals more to the eye than to the ear. 

One of the most common causes of ear-trouble is blow- 
ing the nose hard with both nostrils obstructed by a tightly 
held handkerchief. When there is a " cold in the head," 
any catarrhal trouble, or any infection of the throat, the 
direct result of this is that some mucus is forced back 
into the ear-passages, causing at least temporary deaf- 
ness. A clogged nostril should be sprayed with a warm, 
mild, antiseptic solution ; not douched. Never use a cur- 
rent of water in the nasal passages. Such a procedure 
may drive an infection into the facial bones and cause 
abscesses, eye-disease, and death. 

When one cannot spray the nose, hawk the phlegm back 
into the open throat and discharge it into a handkerchief 
or into a paper towel. Even if it slips down into the 
stomach, it will do far less harm than in the ear-passages. 

A handkerchief is well enough to dry tears from weep- 
ing and to receive sputum in an emergency. And may, 
of course, be used harmlessly when the nasal passages , are 
healthy. 

227 



228 THE HEALTH OF THE TEACHER 

A common cause of trouble to the ear is the insertion 
of some foreign substances like a pea or a pebble or the 
settling in it of an insect such as a fly or a bee. Oc- 
casionally a wad of cotton gets packed into the ear and 
is allowed to remain until, being hardened with earwax, 
it causes positive trouble. The great size of objects found 
in the ear and the queer presence of even living insects 
are perhaps incredible to non-medical persons. It is by 
no means unusual for a surgeon to find it necessary to 
cut in from the outside in order to reach perhaps a bean 
that has swelled and even germinated in the ear or a 
bumblebee lured to the point by the earwax. 

Many a patient who has imagined that he has kept his 
ears clean by washing them always in the course of his 
weekly or semi-weekly bath has nevertheless a mass of 
hard earwax that only an otologist can properly remove. 
The usual symptoms are ringing in the ears and local 
pressure. 

While no nose should ever be syringed or douched, there 
is no especial harm from syringing the ear with warm 
water or with a warm normal salt solution (98 ; 3 per 
cent, salt) . When after a bath the ears seem dry inside, 
it does no harm to wipe them out with a cotton swab 
moistened with goose oil or aseptic vaseline or aseptic 
cold cream. But cotton should never be kept in the ear 
unless prescribed by a physician. 

The notion that it hurts the ears to swim on one's back 
or under water springs from experiences of ear-infection 
due to foul water. Heavy surf -bathing may jar the ear- 
passages ; but pure salt water or pure fresh water of itself 
never does a healthy ear any harm. Of course, after 
bathing, when one's ears are full of water, this may be 
shaken out by shaking the head or may be allowed to run 
out, first, from one ear and then from the other by lying 



CARE OF THE EARS 229 

upon the sides of the body. Never press the water fur- 
ther into the ear by inserting the finger or thumb or 
anything else into the ear when water is present. 

Indeed, this rule is far stronger. Never insert into any 
ear anything harder and stiffer than the corner of a coarse 
towel or a soft roll of absorbent cotton; never. Ear- 
spoons are utterly taboo. They are far worse upon the 
ear even than goosequill toothpicks are upon the gums. 
These are instruments solely for ear-doctors ; who do not, 
however, use them once in a decade! 

The large city is a bad place for the hearing. All 
of us are well aware that too much light is very bad for 
the eyes, but we fail to notice that too much noise is quite 
as bad for the ears. Silence is as good for the ears as 
darkness is for the eyes. We need quiet bedrooms as well 
as dark ones. 

The man or woman who snores is as much a hygienic 
sinner as one who keeps a light in a bedroom all night. 

Put out all lights. 

Shut off all sounds. 

These two rules are essential to good sleep. 

Roaring at a sleeper to waken him is as vicious a pro- 
ceeding as sticking a lighted candle close to his eyes. In- 
deed, it is worse and from two causes. First, eyes have 
lids but the ears have no shutters. Second, an attack 
upon the eyes with sudden light pounds upon the lobes of 
the cerebellum at the back of the head where the brain is 
characteristically large ; but an attack upon the ears with 
sudden noise pounds upon the far lighter areas of the 
cerebrum about the ears where the brain is character- 
istically very sensitive. 

One can listen too much as well as see too much. Of 
as many teachers it may truthfully be said that " Their 
ears are overstrained and have given out " as of others it 



230 THE HEALTH OF THE TEACHER 

may be said that " Their eyes have played out from too 
much work," but seldom is the first remark ever heard 
outside of the physician's rooms. 

Exercising the external muscles of the throat and neck 
and massage about the ears often helps ear-neuralgias and 
anemias. Hqt water bags also do good. But silence 
comes first. Do not sit and talk and talk when tired or 
to persons who are tired. A joyous silence is golden 
when the brain aches from too much listening to noises 
and to voices. 

For the care of the ears, remember that one should 
form the habit of sleeping part of the night upon one 
side and part upon the other. The habit of turning from 
side to side several times in sleep also assists in prevent- 
ing spinal curvatures. The ears benefit much more 
quickly than the eyes from properly active circulation of 
blood in the neck. 



CHAPTER XXX 
CARE OF THE VOICE AND THROAT 

"/CLERGYMAN'S throat" is an affliction of many 
\^J teachers. The typical case of the clergyman 
whose voice and throat have given out is that he has 
preached and prayed in public perhaps several hours on 
Sunday and as many hours all through the week ; and then 
talked conversationally with his family and his parishion- 
ers from morning to evening every day. Real orators do 
not have " clergyman's throat " for several reasons. 
First, they have good, strong throats as a foundation for 
their oratory. Second, they do almost all their talking 
with their diaphragms and abdominal muscles and al- 
most none with their throat walls, tongues, and lips. 
Third, they are silent most of the time, listeners, not 
conversationalists. 

There was a case of a man teacher whose throat and 
voice were worn to shreds and whispers. He talked on 
the average in day and evening school, eight and nine 
hours daily ; and he talked at home with his family. His 
physician prescribed throat massage and head duckings to 
cool the speech center upon the left front of his brain, 
which was usually hot. The case got worse. Though he 
had good general health, his voice fell to a whisper, and 
there was a~ continuous acute inflammation of the entire 
throat, fauces, pharynx and larynx. Medicaments did 
no good. 

Then the physician put the man into bed for three 
days, forbade anyone to see him except Jo bring food, 

231 



232 THE HEALTH OF THE TEACHER 

and forbade also his talking one word more than was 
necessary. When he got up on the fourth day, he ordered 
him to stop his night work, to reduce as much as he could 
his oral instruction, to drop his Sunday School class, to 
listen at home, not talk ; and to spend twelve hours a day 
in bed. 

In six weeks, this teacher's sore throat was well, and 
he had learned important new habits for the rest of his 
life. 

Those who indulge overmuch in throat exercises and 
massage often stir the thyroid glands to excessive activ- 
ity. The best of all exercises for a weak voice is deep 
breathing. One who does overmuch body-bending and 
abdominal work stirs up the suprarenal glands and gets 
too much waked up again, which is the very thing for a 
voice-weary class teacher to avoid. 

Throat gargles, with warm fresh water or warm sea 
water, are good morning and evening for tired voices. 
Gargle in all two or three minutes. Never use strong 
antiseptics, which are bad for the vocal cords and for the 
epithelial tissues. 

Best of all for the voice is placing it right, finding 
just that pitch where the least fatigue is felt. This re- 
quires good hearing and sense of pitch and both physical 
and moral self-control. Anger, hate and fear have horri- 
ble effects upon the voice. Anger tears it, hate grinds it, 
fear robs it of the normal blood supply. Anger forces 
adrenalin up into the delicate tissues and engorges them 
with blood ; hate holds the throat rigid ; fear impoverishes 
the throat. 

The voice is properly sounded just back of the front 
teeth. The best speakers and the best singers, male 
and female, alike, have their speaking and singing articula- 
tion and enunciation at the tip of the tongue upon the 
hard palate and shaped by the lips. A few persons are 



CARE OF THE VOICE AND THROAT 233 

born to speak so; a few more learn this speech from 
their mothers ; but most persons must be taught at school 
and must practise by themselves at home. 

It is truly astonishing and most delightful to listen to 
a man or woman on the public platform who so uses a 
light, agreeable, restful voice that every word, sharply cut, 
can be heard in a large audience room by thousands ; and 
it is just as astonishing and delightful to hear in a class- 
room a teacher speak with similar artistry. Such speak- 
ers never get tired throats and voices ; something else in 
them gets tired first. 

Persons of three types find such speech exceedingly 
hard to acquire. First, the adenoid type: they have 
projecting front teeth, high palates, narrow mouth arches, 
usually hypertrophied tonsils, and a uric acid diathesis. 
Generally, they have weak, shrill, high-pitched, almost 
falsetto voices. And it takes more than mere self-con- 
trol to get their voices into form. Second, those who 
have wide, open throats, deep-set tongues, heavy muscles, 
who groan and girr in their throats, whose voices are 
echoes as from caverns. Third, the tone-deaf type, who 
may know the sounds of words, but who never learned 
speaking. Usually, they whisper away in monotone. 
Sometimes, they roar in monotone. 

Persons of these three types are more numerous than 
are persons who speak well, far more numerous. 

A clear, bell-like voice, of moderate pitch, for women, 
G, A, B, and C, not at concert but at standard pitch, 
neither sharped nor flatted, is charming in most young 
women ; but it must go up and down in the scale at least 
a good octave in ordinary teaching in order to be suffi- 
ciently varied not to tire either the throat of the teacher 
or the ears of the pupils. The woman whose range is only 
from C* to F# (soprano) has too shrill a voice, too nar- 
rowly used. The man whose range is only from Eb to O> 



234 THE HEALTH OF THE TEACHER 

(base) has too dull a voice, also too narrowly used. 

Though far more persons are born with auditory than 
with visual minds, such are the standards for admission 
into teaching that the very great majority of teachers 
are visualists rather than auditors, silent readers rather 
than vocalists ; and their teaching itself betrays them. 

But the very truth that they are visual and non-auditory 
explains why they so misuse their voices. Almost every 
person afflicted with laryngitis or any other throat trouble, 
caused or accompanied by bad use of the voice, is one who 
really never does listen to the sound of his own voice. 
Any person who has a natural or developed sense of 
hearing, pitch, tone, volume, resonance, makes his 
own voice, however poor its instruments in throat, vocal 
cords and mouth, sound reasonably well. The ear, not 
the throat, makes the agreeable voice. And in the long 
run of the decades of living by a person who is moder- 
ately self-conscious, that is, has self-understanding but 
neither pride nor false humility, it is the mind that 
makes the ear that hears as it is the mind that makes the 
eye that sees. 

A person who has a rasping voice is trebly unfortunate, 
i. He makes unnecessary and yet inevitable enemies, be- 
cause his voice wears upon and irritates them. 2. He 
wears upon himself, frets even himself by his own voice. 
3. He victimizes his own throat, and thereby, to his own 
bodily instrument for working and living, he does heavy 
damage-. 

The tired throat is somewhat relieved by various drinks 
according to its troubles respectively. Cool, fresh, pure 
water serves -for most purposes, say 55 ; never ice water 
for a tired throat. Hot water often helps. Milk, warm 
or cool, 98 or 60, is often excellent. Lemonade, 
orangeade, even grape juice and mild tea (green only) 
and coffee have some therapeutic values for some definite 



CARE OF THE VOICE AND THROAT 235 

purposes. A throat, fatigued to the point of evasive re- 
laxation, is helped by the astringent qualities of hot tea ; 
but it is only a temporary help and for it only a small tea- 
cupful is permissible. Some of the patent cough drops 
do some good in some cases ; but most of them make most 
of the cases worse. 

Gruels of oatmeal or barley, made with a little milk 
added, are good to take mornings or afternoons when the 
voice is giving way. But the stomach must not be com- 
pletely filled with such diet lest there be no hunger and 
no room for really substantial foods such as meats, eggs/ 
bread and pure ice cream at the meal hour. 

Of the criteria for health as apart from strength, the 
voice is only one of the minor helps ; but of all the criteria 
as to the general strength, the vital reserve, the attack 
and resistance in the battles of life, none is more valuable 
than the voice. 

When a woman comes downstairs of a morning sing- 
ing away upon some familiar song, whatever its nature, 
it is altogether unlikely that she will be unequal to the 
day and its duties. The surplus nervous energy reports 
itself to the world in the voice. A weak, plaintive voice 
is the apology of the entire body for the generally unfit 
condition to live, playing one's part well. When one's 
voice betrays an undesirable physical or mental state, the 
sooner one sets about changing such a state, the wiser one 
is. 



CHAPTER XXXI 
CARE OF THE SKIN 

IN their proportions to the whole body in respect to their 
relative weights, the bones come first, next the muscles, 
third the skin, which should weigh more than the flesh 
or the internal viscera and far more than the veins and 
arteries or the nerves. An exceedingly thin and delicate 
skin, such as characterizes some women and a few men 
and in women is supposed by some to be a mark of beauty, 
is truly, when properly considered, a mark of deteriora- 
tion and of future danger. The " thin-skinned " are pe- 
culiarly liable to troubles from drafts, from strong winds, 
from local abrasions, from chills. Almost all such per- 
sons are muscularly weak and have frail digestions, frail 
breathing apparatus, and frail nerves. Psychically, they 
are alert but over-sensitive. Their bleached, bloodless 
integuments have been caused by such conditions as these, 
viz. 

1. Indoor living. 

2. Non-protein diet. 

3. Either too much or too little bathing. 

4. Too much clothing, day or night, or both. 

5. Insufficient exercise. 

6. Too much brain work, or 

7. Poor heredity. 

Fortunately, for the " thin-skinned," their condition 
may be remedied without much trouble and in compara- 
tively brief time because good Mother Nature intends us 
all to have skin enough for health and comfort. 

236 



CARE OF THE SKIN 237 

There was a case of a young woman teacher, half 
Wurttemberger (German) and half Highland Scotch, who 
had a tissue paper skin and a steady bronchitis, not an 
unusual combination. She was very intelligent, very in- 
dustrious, very amiable, very pale, very thin, and very 
tall. (Body coefficient at 23 years of age only 1.70.) 
She fairly shivered even in a summer breeze and wore 
very heavy outer garments in winter. She had an 
abominable stove in her rural classroom as the source of 
heat; and she stayed too near it. She lived in a farm- 
house with no bathroom. 

Tuberculosis was distinctly threatened. 

A single summer at the seashore set her in the right 
direction. She went home weighing twenty pounds more, 
and half of it was in a rebuilt skin, due more to staying 
outdoors than to her twenty minute salt water bath every 
other day. The resort had still water as well as surf ; 
and she went rowing for several hours every day. 

Farm girls have good skins from living outdoors? 
No, indeed. They and their mothers often have poorer 
skins and live indoors more and in hotter rooms than do 
modern city women. We should be changing all that. 

The regimen for building a good, clear, beautiful and 
useful skin includes these methods, viz. 

1. Plenty of skin building foods. (Vegetables and 
fruits do not help much in this direction.) 

2. Skin aeration and lavation and towel-rubbing every 
day, top to toe. 

3. Several hours daily outdoors. When the tender 
skin roughens, use cold cream ; glycerin and denatured al- 
cohol ; vaseline ; or any other aseptic emollient. 

4. Light underwear. 

5. Enough non-fatiguing exercise to stretch the skin 
upon all parts of the body. 

The thin-skinned often have pale, drawn faces. Al- 



238 THE HEALTH OF THE TEACHER 

most as often, they resort to massage, which in nine cases 
out of ten does no good whatsoever to them. As for rub- 
bing cold cream, mutton tallow or anything else into the 
skin to make it more plump, the physiologist can only 
laugh. The human leather was built to keep everything 
off from the skin and out from the tissues. The popular 
legend to the effect that bathing in milk makes one fatter 
is simply funny. The skin does not absorb water in a 
bath; on the contrary, bathing always makes one still 
thinner for the time being because it sets the blood to 
burning yet brighter. Whether milk makes the skin soft 
and white is a different question. 

The thick-skinned who have no herpes or pimples or 
blackheads or acne or other skin disease have nothing in 
this line to complain of ; they are well-born and fortunate. 

The serious and baffling skin troubles are too varied in 
kind and the kinds are too numerous even to mention 
many in a book on general hygiene ; but whatever the 
kind, it seems especially to afflict those whose skins are 
not good leather. Therefore, a generalized skin regimen, 
such as by experience seems to develop and maintain a 
good skin, is desirable. It is offered with this definite 
limitation; a differential diagnosis of the characteristics 
and peculiarities of every skin that is not well is required. 
The system here proposed is not of universal applicability. 
For example, some skins suffer from bathing even with 
pure soap and water. Some skins will not endure even 
the finest of soaps, used moderately. Some skins are 
roughened by fresh sea air. And some skins cannot en- 
dure tanning by sunlight and wind. But for most skins 
this system works well. 

i. Daily bathing all over, tub, shower, or wet towel, in 
ventilated room at 70 degrees. Rubbing by a rough but 
not harsh towel, except face, fingers and toes, which re- 
quire soft, thin, old toweling. 



CARE OF THE SKIN 239 

2. Brief aeration for all parts of the body, twice daily. 
Some women dress and undress inside of their kimonos 
or bathrobes; but most skins benefit by an open-to-the- 
room-air treatment. A dressing-room should not be too 
cold, 70 degrees is reasonable. 

3. Exercising every muscle of the body every day. 

4. Wearing light, open mesh underwear. 

5. After using soap to clean hands or any other part 
of the body, rinse well in clear water. Never leave any 
soap upon the skin. 

6. Avoid heavy clothing even in winter unless driving 
outdoors seated in a conveyance. The skin is meant to 
keep the body warm. 

7. Carefully avoid all known sources of infection or 
of abrasion. Wear rubber gloves when washing dishes. 
Wear cotton gloves when sweeping or dusting. Keep 
out of all dust from whatever source, including furnace 
ashes. 

8. To soften the skin, rub with oatmeal or bran ; or use 
aseptic cold cream or the equivalent. 

The questions of veils, of hats with wide brims and of 
talcum powder are to be answered in the terms of personal 
traits and needs, but there is no skin that prospers 
from the use of cosmetics that seal the pores and check 
heat radiation. Skins are meant to perspire water and 
to exude oil; and these functions are necessary both to 
health and to beauty. A painted face is not so beautiful 
as a pale one ; and a pale one is not so beautiful as one 
rosy with good heredity, from good blood and from fresh 
air out of doors. 



THE VARIOUS SKIN DISEASES 

All such troubles as eczema, pimples, acne, blackheads, 
herpes, ringworm, moles, warts, ingrown hairs, scales, 



2 4 o THE HEALTH OF THE TEACHER 

white spots, scrofula, itch, erysipelas, pediculosis, dan- 
druff, scratches, shingles, birthmarks, chilblains, cracks 
and sores, felons, styes, corns, bunions, callosities, in- 
grown nails, cuts, wounds and abrasions, facial hair upon 
women, chancre, blisters, boils, wens, carbuncles, tumors 
and canceps that afflict the skin belong for discussion in 
medical treatises rather than in hygienic compendiums. 
But a few suggestions to show the importance both of 
common sense and of personal treatment by a doctor are 
in place here. 

1. No such rule as "Use plenty of soap, water and clean 
towels " covers all skin troubles. Soap, water and towels 
are bad for eczema. Of course, every case of eczema is 
different according to the patient; but in general the 
treatment is a very gentle cleaning with soft water, 
then covering away from the air with some antiseptic oint- 
ment, and no more washing for a week ! In truth, water 
is bad for many of the skin troubles. There are some 
conditions in which even seabathing is forbidden. 

2. It is not -true that " All skin troubles are caused by 
uncleanliness." On the contrary, excessive manicuring 
develops or at least assists the development of hangnails 
and even of felons. A very clean skin seems to invite 
infection by ringworm. Close shaving leads to ingrown 
hairs. The management of ingrown nails does not turn 
upon frequent bathing and cutting but upon packing under 
the nail with sterilized cotton soaked in oil or wax and 
letting the nail grow, perhaps after scraping it thin 
with a sharp knife edge. 

3. Everyone of these troubles calls for special therapy. 
Corns are caused by loose shoes that do not fit, and bun- 
ions by tight shoes that do not fit. Chancre is due to an 
infection by a very serious disease ; but scrofula is prob- 
ably hereditary, while no one can yet prove what does 
cause cancer wherever it occurs. Shingles about the 



CARE OF THE SKIN 241 

waist are caused by nervous breakdown. It is well known 
that " when they meet.over the trunk, the patient invari- 
ably dies " ; but they never meet and never can meet be- 
cause the nerves along which the shingles spread do not 
meet but sweep upward upon the trunk and end before 
meeting. 

Very hearty persons are peculiarly liable to boils and 
to carbuncles, which, however, are not self -originated 
but due to infection from others. Many of these trou- 
bles tend to reproduce themselves and to spread; others 
tend to shrivel and shrink, their first state being the worst. 
Therefore, home treatment of skin-diseases without medi- 
cal advice is a risky experiment. 

4. All these troubles are cases where the tissues have 
" gone crazy," cannot develop and die normally ; they 
may be fighting invading microbes or bacteria, or poisons 
from the blood, or they may be worried over excess nutri- 
tion. Cancer is a natural growth gone to mad excess. 
A boil, however, is a siege laid by the skin and blood 
against a filthy enemy. 

Because we can see the results of skin diseases upon 
the surface of the body, we know their names and some- 
thing of their natures to a degree beyond our observa- 
tion and knowledge of any other diseases. In conse- 
quence, few persons ever die of skin diseases, because 
they are arrested in time and cured. There is, also, a 
very marked social prejudice, even a social taboo, against 
persons who have skin diseases. This is due to several 
causes, viz. 

1. The fact that many skin diseases are communicable. 

2. The fact that many of them proceed from uncleanli- 
ness. 

3. The fact that all of them destroy the beauty of the 
skin. 

Notwithstanding these general notions regarding skin 



242 THE HEALTH OF THE TEACHER 

diseases, two truths require emphasis, first, that many 
of them are obscure in their origin and cause ; and, sec- 
ond, that the popular notions and procedures of treat- 
ment often make them worse. Of these truths, many 
illustrations might be given. No scientist yet knows 
the cause of cancer or even of warts. The very popular 
methods of dealing with dandruff, i. the daily use of a 
fine tooth comb ; and 2. washing the head frequently with 
soap and water, both generally make the conditions worse 
rather than better. Manicuring the finger-nails not only 
often ruins them but actually develops several troubles. 
No doubt the hair and the nails should be kept clean; 
but manicuring the nails may be the opposite of curing 
them; and soaping the hair burns it. 

The rule of the old barber is a good one; of course, 
shampoo the hair every fortnight or so, but do it as quickly 
as possible, and be sure to get every trace of the sham- 
poo out of the hair. Soap is as bad for skin and hair 
as it is for dirt. 

Some of the troubles of the skin are due to peculiari- 
ties that no physician has yet fathomed. There was a 
case of a man who at eighteen to twenty years of age 
was greatly troubled by swollen sebaceous glands at 
various points of his body. This stage passed away to 
be followed by wens upon his head. These were removed 
by surgery and ceased to appear. Then came a stage of 
eczema that lasted ten years. This was cured but was 
followed by warts, dozens of them. At fifty years of 
age, there was not a mark upon his body ; and his skin 
was as clear as a baby's. This stage lasted several years. 
He seemed to be under the influence of successive heredi- 
tary forces. 

Just as there are persons who never have decay in any 
tooth till death; and persons who have abundant black 
hair into old age; so there are some who never have a 



CARE OF THE SKIN 243 

corn upon a foot or a hangnail upon a ringer. The first 
may never brush their teeth ; the second may never wash 
their hair; and the third group may be careless about 
washing. These are the fortunate primitives whose struc- 
tures and tissues are still proof against outer nature and 
civilization. For most of us, however, it certainly pays 
to be hygienic. 

Should there be an infected spot upon the surface of 
the body, great care should be taken at once and con- 
stantly thereafter lest it spread or be transferred else- 
where. Seldom does soapy bathwater serve as a car- 
rier, but the infected towel is a frequent cause of in- 
creased trouble. Sores, ringworms, boils may be cov- 
ered with carbolated vaseline, zinc ointment, iodoform 
dressings or otherwise as much to protect the rest of the 
body and other persons as to promote cure. 



CHAPTER XXXII 
CARE OF THE HAIR 

ORDINARILY, the hair of the head goes through 
four stages ; but their nature depends upon the race 
of the individual and upon the particular diathesis. The 
first stage is the woolly mat characteristic of birth. It 
seldom lasts more than a few weeks. In the second stage, 
there is a thick growth of strong hair that becomes heav- 
iest at about sixteen to eighteen years of age. Third, 
is the greying and thinning out stage, which is decidedly 
evident at about forty or fifty years of age. Last comes 
baldness of the crown with thin white hair in a fringe 
below the crown; often the baldness starts also from the 
neck up. Such is the usual process. 

Here and there is the individual who has dark hair 
and fairly thick as late as sixty or even seventy years 
of age. He is usually a brunette. Not infrequently, a 
Welshman has such hair. A large number of men be- 
gin to be bald in spots as early as thirty years of age. 
The man who becomes distinctly bald at thirty years of 
age is usually a blonde. Not infrequently, he is a Saxon, 
either English or German. 

Hair that remains pigmented through life and baldness 
that conies early in life are not only hereditary but also 
racial. Is it then utterly futile to try to prevent grey- 
ness and baldness? Do brushing, shampooing, dressing 
even by experts serve any useful purpose in keeping a 
good head of hair? Often, at various times, the head 
seems to have a serious tendency to dandruff; and with 

244 



CARE OF THE HAIR 



245 



the dandruff, there seems to be an increase in the activity 
with which the hair falls out. Is there any tendency 
to have dandruff; and does the dandruff cause or follow 
the increasing baldness? Millions of persons including 
teachers are worrying about these matters. They are 
really more sensitive about their hair than they are about 
even their upper front teeth. The bald always look so 
queer ! And women do not like to wear false braids nor 
men wigs or toupees. 

The first thing to be observed is that greyness and 
baldness are part of the human lot, and come because 
old age can be escaped only by dying young. 

The second thing needs to be remembered, the prin- 
ciple of periodicity works as to the hair also. Every 
spring, there is a marked tendency of the hair to get 
stronger. Often for ten or even fifteen years of middle 
life, the hair is much better pigmented and thicker in 
May than it was in January. Cold winter weather has 
stimulated the scalp and forced it to try to improve its 
covering. Summer bleaches the hair and dries it out; 
and in the autumn and early winter in middle life, the 
hair falls out. Fortunately for a score of years, there 
is an active replacement by new hair. 

Third, both the common experience of mankind and the 
positive records of physicians show that some proced- 
ures strengthen the roots of the hair, prevent its being 
broken from dryness, and prolong its life. 

What the hair needs most of all is an active circula- 
tion at its roots. This is secured by massage with the 
fingers morning and night and by vigorously working 
the scalp. Men should never wear hats with tight hat- 
bands. Women should never keep their hats on for sev- 
eral hours at a time. If possible, they should take their 
hair down every afternoon and exercise the scalp and -air 
the hair for a few minutes. 



246 THE HEALTH OF THE TEACHER 

Next, the hair needs its own natural oil. It should 
be brushed and combed twice daily, for how long de- 
pends upon its length, fineness and quantity. Dressing 
the long, heavy hair of typical women of most of the 
stocks represented in America is a serious matter, as 
all such women know. It takes time, often a full half 
hour every morning. Despite its beauty, such a heavy 
head of hair is a heavy handicap in life as compared with 
the short hair of men. Brushing and combing bring the 
oil up from the scalp through all the hair. 

Many things that are done to the hair were better not 
done. 

1. A fine tooth comb should be used, if at all, only 
gently and sparingly, perhaps twice a month at most. 
It rakes and irritates the scalp and starts troubles of the 
skin. Of course, of itself, it never causes dandruff. 
Men generally are too fond of the fine tooth comb. 

2. The hair never should be heated by curling irons. 
The woman who desires her straight hair to be wavy will 
pay the price in early loss of long hair ; that is all ; it is 
enough for the intelligent. Putting up the hair in curl- 
ing papers without heat tends only to break it, but other- 
wise does no serious harm. 

3. There is no harmless hair dye or stain, not even 
sage tea. Not to raise the question whether darkening 
the hair artificially ever deceives any one, the process de- 
feats itself, for it attacks the hair and soon makes a bad 
matter worse. 

4. Bleaching the hair dries it; and drying the hair 
burns its color and its substance. The dark lady who 
becomes " a bleached blonde " in a few years proceeds 
into " a woman with a wig." Bleaching promotes bald- 
ness. 

5. Those with the thin hair of middle age should note 
that it does not keep out dust and that it dries out much 



CARE OF THE HAIR 247 

more quickly than the thick hair of youth. The float of 
particles in the air from woolen carpets, rugs and blankets 
clings to the hair when thin and, unless removed, mats 
upon the scalp. These two troubles suggest their own 
remedies. 

6. In the case of women with hair upon the face that 
annoys them, depilation is a severe temptation. Electro- 
lysis is the only remedy ; and the experienced physician is 
the only person to whom it is safe to go for advice and 
treatment. Many a woman has made much trouble for 
herself by experimenting in the removal of hair otherwise 
than at the hands of a medical expert. 



CHAPTER XXXIII 
CARE OF THE FEET 

THE normal American girl of sixteen years has had 
an outdoor summer vacation every year when she 
has gone swimming and has run about barefoot or with 
shoes adapted to active sports; and the arch of her 
instep is high, considerably higher than that of her own 
brother of the same stock and breed. In consequence, 
such a girl needs a shoe with a higher heel than does her 
brother. 

But the average American woman, three times as old 
as the girl, has insteps badly broken down and is flat- 
footed, which is a calamity. Flat feet are serious bur- 
dens to any teacher ; they cause pain, prevent much active 
exercise, and reduce efficiency. In addition, a flatfoot 
with its broken arch is ungainly in appearance; and 
causes personal mortification, which is prejudicial to joy 
in life and therefore to health. 

Every normal person has feet entirely free from corns, 
bunions, ingrown-nails, other callosities, and from skin 
diseases. By this standard, few persons are normal. 
The question is what regimen will gradually restore feet 
that are not in good health to such health. In some in- 
stances, nothing can be done successfully. In other in- 
stances, chiropody and even positive surgery and medica- 
tion may be called in successfully. 

Those who have trouble with their feet should re- 
member that there are other persons who have never 
had trouble and still others who, having had trouble, have 

248 



CARE OF THE FEET 



249 



been perfectly cured and should infer that perhaps they 
themselves are responsible for their foot troubles. Many 
persons are unnecessarily content with their own foot- 
management, assuming that corns and flat feet are irre- 
mediable dispensations of f ate, to be endured, not cured. 
There is no universal rule as to what comes first in the 
care of the feet; but there are some general rules, which 
may be stated as follows, viz. 

1. Wear close-fitting shoes. 

2. Never wear the same pair of shoes over two days in 
succession. 

3. Bathe the feet at least once a day in warm water. 

4. Wear smooth, clean hosiery, preferably thin. 

5. Get after any threatened trouble immediately. 

6. Trim the nails moderately but frequently. 

7. Never keep rubbers on one minute longer than 
necessary. 

8. Do not wear patent leather or waterproof uppers on 
shoes. 

9. Wear light-weight shoes indoors. 

Each one of these rules is worth thorough considera- 
tion. 

No one should ever wear a shoe with a low instep ; a 
moderate arch is needed by every one. Persons with nat- 
urally high arches need shoes with strong, high insteps 
and moderately high heels. (One and a half inches is 
not too high for many women who are five feet, six inches 
tall.) Low heels (less than one inch) will do for some 
short men. 

The man who finds to his disappointment that after 
being worn a few days, new shoes fail to support the 
feet should throw them away, lest a worse evil befall 
him. The woman with similar experience should do 
likewise. Most shoes now on sale have weak, low, ana- 
tomically incorrect shanks and tight, stiff vamps. The 



250 THE HEALTH OF THE TEACHER 

shank should be well-rounded and strong and the vamp 
free and easy. 

Every shoe should be a snug fit. Loose shoes cause a 
hundred times as many corns as do tight shoes. Upon 
getting new shoes, wear them only an hour or so daily for 
several days to break them in gradually. Any shoe prop- 
erly managed is better the second year than the first. Do 
not buy shoes to wear them out but to keep and use slowly. 
Many intelligent persons wear shoes off and on for four, 
five, even six years. A shoe grown stiff with age may 
easily be softened with vaseline or cold cream or olive 
oil. 

A shoe that fits is extra long to allow for the forward 
pressure in walking down grade, and to prevent the de- 
velopment of ingrowing toe nails. 

The foot sweats and should sweat ; the shoe needs more 
than the night to dry out. Any shoe presses upon some 
points rather than upon others. Keep several different 
pairs in use, preferably made upon slightly different lasts 
and of different leather. It is a mistake to buy at the 
same time shoes of the same make and quality. 

The feet can scarcely be bathed too often; in this re- 
spect, they are like the hands. Only when there is ec- 
zema, should the daily bathing be omitted. In many 
cases, after bathing the feet, they should be well dried. 
Dusting the feet well with talcum powder is often a 
help. 

Soaking the feet in very hot water for a quarter hour 
cures many troubles when kept up daily. (Some patients 
object to taking so much time ; but it is quite possible to 
sit with one's feet in a pail of water or upon a chair 
beside a tub, while reading a book or magazine or even 
while writing a letter. The point is to let the feet soak.) 
In some cases, sea salt, or even ordinary salt, in the water 
may help. 



CARE OF THE FEET 251 

In many instances, corns are caused not by the shoes 
but by the stockings. Many persons wear coarse or 
overlarge hosiery that rubs or overlaps .and so makes 
trouble. The hose should fit exactly, being neither too 
tight nor too loose. Persons who have any trouble with 
their feet should, when possible, take off both shoes and 
stockings and rest and aerate their feet every afternoon. 
It is not enough to remove the shoes only. 

The foot is the only part of the modern person to be 
encased in leather. It is true that our barbarian ances- 
tors wore skins; but even they wore upon their feet 
sandals only, not shoes with both soles and uppers of 
leather, which is not good for the skin because it is too 
impervious to permit proper ventilation of the feet. In 
order to protect our feet from injury, it will be neces- 
sary even in the coming airplane age to wear leather 
shoes; but we can ameliorate the resultant foot troubles 
by attention to foot hygiene. 

There was a case of a woman teacher who noticed a 
slight difficulty in one toe, inflammation and pain and 
stiffness. She let it go. A few days later, the entire 
foot was badly swollen. Now such symptoms may attend 
various troubles and are difficult for even a physician 
to interpret. The history of this case is both medical 
and surgical; but this difficulty, which was remediable 
when she first noticed it, actually cost her lower limb to 
the knee ; and she barely escaped with her life. The orig- 
inal and moving cause was that she stubbed her toe in 
the dark against a chair; broke a joint, and set up an in- 
flammation, which getting an infection from some un- 
traceable source, developed into blood-poisoning. This, 
of course, was a very unusual case ; but this fact did not 
prevent its being nearly fatal. 

There was another case of a young woman who devel- 
oped a running sore upon the ball of her foot and bravely 



252 THE HEALTH OF THE TEACHER 

and silently set out not to complain but to endure it. Of 
course, she gave up walking to and from school, but 
rode both ways in a street car. She was intelligent 
enough to take thorough antiseptic care of it twice daily, 
but she did not cure it. For want of sufficient outdoor 
exercise, she developed severe kidney trouble that finally 
made calling in a physician necessary. Under his treat- 
ment, the foot was soon cured ; but the impairment of the 
kidneys, though checked in its development,^ was not cur- 
able. It is very shortsighted to neglect foot troubles. 

As soon as one discovers a nail in a shoe making trouble 
for the foot, immediately get the shoe off. When this 
occurs upon the highway, get the shoe off, pack in a hand- 
kerchief or a card, and replace the shoe ; but by all means 
stop the nail from making any more trouble. Many a 
case of blood-poisoning has started from a nail in the 
shoe or from a carpet tack upon the floor. 

As one grows older, there is a marked tendency on the 
part of nails to curve inward and thereby to cut into the 
skin at the ends of the toes. Trimming the nails faith- 
fully at least once a week after a bath helps. The way 
to deal with a nail that has grown in is to trim it and then 
to pack sterilized absorbent cotton under it, which should 
be removed daily. A bad case belongs to the family phy- 
sician or to an expert chiropodist for relief. 

THE CURE OF CORNS 

Almost every corn is curable ; and any toe once cured 
prefers to stay normal. Corns are produced by the per- 
sons to whose feet they are fastened. It is entirely un- 
necessary to have corns ; but it is not always easy to get 
rid of them. Nor is it worth while to do so unless one 
intends to abate their cause, which is never anything else 
than shoes and hosiery that do not fit. Corns are un- 
natural. 



CARE OF THE FEET 



253 



But the patent corn relief plasters may produce serious 
trouble. 

The procedure for the cure of corns that works in 
most cases is as follows, viz. 

First, get two pairs of shoes, not just alike, but each 
pair a perfect fit, as indicated above. 

Second, trim the corns with sharp, curved, small scis- 
sors but do not trim to the point of bleeding. 

Third, coat the pared corns over with liquid court plas- 
ter or some similar preparation thoroughly sterilized. 

Fourth, wrap the offending toes in two thicknesses of 
soft, old, clean strips from handkerchiefs or other thin 
linen. 

Fifth, wear soft slippers evenings. 

Nine corns in ten will yield to such treatment within a 
fortnight ; cease to grow ; and never return. The tenth 
corn needs medical attention. 



GOOD SHOES 

Rubbers are very bad for the feet. Waterproof shoes 
are also bad. Patent leather, likewise. Really, it does 
no harm to have wet feet while walking; all the harm is 
from sitting around in wet shoes and hosiery. Of course, 
wetting the shoes is bad for the leather ; and drying them 
off the feet is worse. Frankly, we wear rubbers, first, to 
save our shoes; and, second, to save time in changing 
into dry shoes and hosiery. Getting the feet wet and 
even cold does not harm one person in a thousand. Prim- 
itive man was born and bred to being wet from head to 
foot. 

When rubbers are kept on the feet indoors, the shoes 
get wet from inside perspiration ; and absolutely nothing 
is gained by wearing the rubbers at all. Both the leather 
of the shoes and the leather of the skin are damaged; 



254 THE HEALTH OF THE TEACHER 

for the hot leather of the shoe blocks the free perspira- 
tion of the skin of the foot. 

One great cause of foot troubles is wearing very heavy 
shoes indoors, where the thinnest of shoes are warm 
enough. Teachers should wear light shoes in their 
schoolrooms. The best purchase of shoes is always a 
thin or at least medium upper of sound leather with a 
medium sole. Many women make the mistake of getting 
shoes with medium uppers and thin soles. Experienced 
buyers, that is, persons who know how to select good 
shoes, understand how to estimate accurately the thick- 
ness and the quality of the sole of a shoe. There are 
very great differences in the qualities of the soles of 
shoes. Hygienically considered, leather makes the best 
sole. Even the sole of the foot has perspiratory glands. 

The two serious objections to thin soles for outdoor 
wear are that they can be punctured too easily by tacks 
or by glass, which may severely cut the feet and that 
they are insufficient protection against roughness upon 
city sidewalks and pavements, freely permitting stone- 
bruises. That they let in the cold and the wet is a mat- 
ter of no direct hygienic importance in itself ; the human 
feet should be veritable stoves for heat. Unfortunately, 
most persons take walks and then sit around for hours 
and hours, though their feet may be both cold and wet, 
a condition that tends distinctly to body chills and to 
throat fevers. 

The notion that exercising the feet and bathing them 
frequently makes them larger is physiologically absurd. 
Exercise and bathing tend directly to maintain the norm 
between feeble thinness and feeble fatness. 

A strong, supple, muscular foot that has toes straight 
forward in walking is a mark of energy and character. 

Some women, especially middle-aged women who de- 
sire to appear young, wear shoes with too high heels, 



CARE OF THE FEET 255 

even two and a half inches high, which is beyond reason 
for any one. Not only so, but their high heels are made 
of solid steel, upon which the weight of the whole body 
pounds terrifically with every step. Nine persons in 
every ten should wear shoes with heels of live, new rub- 
ber not less than one-half and preferably a full inch 
thick. Such heels save many a jar to the spinal cord 
and brain; but it does require a modicum of intelligence 
to appreciate a proper heel of thick, good rubber. The 
one-eighth inch of rubber upon these faddish steel heels 
is an offence to common sense like some of the alleged 
" biscuit " crackers. 



CHAPTER XXXIV 
RELAXATION AND AMUSEMENT 

IN a general and arbitrary manner, in respect to their 
relaxation and amusement, when distinct from play 
and exercise, we may divide teachers first into two classes 
and next into three subclasses of the second class. The 
first class consists of those who from intrinsic personal 
causes or from extrinsic environmental causes have and 
can have no amusements in the proper sense. When also 
they have no relaxation from endeavor and anxiety, they 
sicken and after a time, be it long or short, it is always 
a time less than man's normal three score years and 
ten, they die from want of amusement. When also 
they want relaxation, they sicken and die quickly. " All 
work and no play " does not " make Jack a dull boy " ; 
rather it makes him an invalid and soon ends him. But 
with relaxation, even though it be not amusement, one 
may drag along perhaps for many years. By relaxation 
is meant rest, relief, release from positive pressure. 

There was a case of a woman teacher, who for twenty 
years took personal care of an invalid mother who was 
so badly wrecked that the presence of the daughter for 
as many hours a day as possible was highly important ; 
indeed, it was essential to the life of the old lady with 
whom no one else could get along. The result was that 
every holiday, summer and winter, and almost every 
evening was spent by the teacher with the mother. Per- 
haps, this was a case of excess in filial affection and 
piety; be this as it may, the problem of the physicians 

256 



RELAXATION AND AMUSEMENT 257 

who took care of both persons was how to keep the wage- 
earner well enough to do her work by which both were 
supported. 

Nervous relaxation must be secured; and in this case 
it was secured to a considerable extent by some hours 
daily spent by the two in reading aloud and listening 
to light but fascinating novels, by housework, by short 
walks and trolley rides, by music from piano and phono- 
graph and by infrequent visits to the motion picture 
shows, for though the mother was too blind to see the 
pictures, she did enjoy for a half hour or so the music 
when it happened to be good. 

All that the case illustrates is -that definite relaxation 
with as thorough forgetfulness of the environing world 
does help, for the whole record shows occasional, though 
but slight, breakdowns on the part of the teacher until 
there came a complete breakdown followed by change of 
occupation. The really astonishing thing about this case 
was the survival of the invalid mother into great old age, 
a condition in kself that continually encouraged the 
daughter to longer endurance. 

Mere relaxation includes such things as this, viz. 

1. Sitting in the teachers' rest room for a few minutes 
at recess or after school. (It is not, however, in any 
true sense, relaxation to engage in an animated conversa- 
tion with other teachers or with pupils or with visitors 
when nominally trying to rest.) 

2. Lying down there upon a couch, su9h as every 
schoolhouse should have, even a one-room rural school- 
house. 

3. Reading at home books not upon themes connected 
with school work or with school life. Reading aloud to 
others is not relaxation for the reader. 

4. Sitting in one's own room at home, reading material 
of no definite importance, such as most short stories. 



258 THE HEALTH OF THE TEACHER 

5. Visiting most movies ; some, however, are very ex- 
citing; and some are really informative and demand at- 
tention and consideration. 

6. Knitting and mending. Dressmaking, however, is 
not relaxation, because it requires both thought and con- 
stant attention in all the processes. 

7. Routine home cooking. But getting up dinners for 
friends is work or play, according to the manner in which 
one takes it. Neither work nor play is restful to the 
nervous system. 

8. Taking a nap. 

9. Going for a stroll at the rate of not over a mile in 
twenty minutes ; nor walking up hills ; nor going over 
half a mile then. Good walking is invigorating, not 
relaxing. 

10. Taking a warm or neutral tub bath is distinctly 
restful to the weary. In some instances, however, even 
the weary do better to take either a shower bath or a 
slightly cool tub bath (90). These instances usually 
concern the temporary weariness of persons with good 
heart action and with body coefficients exceeding 2.20. 

11. Companionship of some kinds under some circum- 
stances is relaxing. When persons sit in silence with but 
few remarks passing from one to another and are happy 
together but passive and quiescent, the right conditions 
exist for the relaxation of the weary ones among them ; 
but in America such a group is unusual. 

12. Solitude in the woods or in an attic or in a " den " 
may or may not be relaxing. When the solitude is quiet 
and silent, often it is restful. 

AMUSEMENTS 

Far greater is the variety of amusements than the 
variety of the modes of relaxation. 

For convenience, the amusements open to the teacher 



RELAXATION AND AMUSEMENT 259 

may be classified as primarily physical, primarily psychi- 
cal, primarily social, and as mixed. The first group be- 
long under exercise, where they have been previously 
considered. The secret of amusement is that it makes 
one forget the past and the surroundings and live in the 
present emotions. 

It is a psychical amusement, not without physical bene- 
fits, however, to go to a good ball game ( football, baseball, 
polo, hockey) and watch the contestants and perhaps join 
in cheering good plays and the winners ; and the reason is 
because in the absorption and delight of the contest, one 
forgets his ordinary affairs and even oneself. When any 
man or woman reaches the point that he (or she) does not 
enjoy a horse race, there is something seriously the matter 
with both mind and health. Any sport becomes to the 
intelligent and healthy a spectacle or an amusement. 
When one reaches the point where one regards it so 
wicked to watch a horse race because perhaps some per- 
sons bet on the horses that mere delight in the animals 
themselves and in their drivers for their love of horses 
and skill in managing them is impossible, one has ceased 
to be normally human. On the same principle, however, 
one should stop eating bread because men gamble on the 
price of wheat and one should not buy books because 
both the writing and the printing of books are straight 
gambles, nothing else more so. More horse races are 
won on the joint merits of horse and man than fames or 
properties are gathered in the business of life on the 
merits of the fame-strugglers and wealth-seekers. 

Sometimes, a teacher denies himself an innocent pleas- 
ure because he imagines that the general public views his 
presence at a boxing match or at a boatrace as in some 
way improper; this is pure imagination. There is no 
such world here in America as that person pictures, to 
himself who imagines general disapproval of a disposition 



260 THE HEALTH OF THE TEACHER 

to enjoy being alive and seeing all normal life as it is. 
We are a happy people, and we delight in happy persons. 
The range of amusements and of pleasures open to the 
teacher who is himself decent is very wide and should be 
kept so. 

Another psychical amusement is music itself, piano 
playing, banjo playing, vocal singing, perhaps choral 
work, which, however, has also a social element. It is 
true that most teachers (unlike the generality of people) 
are visile rather than audile and live in sights, not sounds ; 
still some teachers are both audiles and esthetes, and 
delight in music. That music tends both to quicken and 
to harmonize the soul every one knows from common 
observation. Teachers who play good music and who 
sing good songs are morally and physically the better for 
so doing; with the provisos that they have the surplus 
nervous energy for such effort, that they do not need 
sleep still more than amusement, and that they do not 
either fatigue their spinal systems or strain their voices. 



HOME OCCUPATIONS 

Still other amusements are carpentry and various tech- 
nical sidelines for men and some few similar interests for 
women, such as bookbinding and handpainting, china, 
water colors, etc. 

It is by no means unwise for a teacher to have a work- 
room and a carpenter's bench; but it is unwise for him 
to work for others out of school hours on contract for 
pay. An interest of this kind should be kept uneconomic, 
non-financial, perfectly free from all social obligation. 

Here are some cases. 

A college professor cobbles all the family shoes ; he has 
become an expert in driving pegs and in sewing on soles. 



RELAXATION AND AMUSEMENT 261 

A school principal has built half the furniture in his 
own home ; and very good furniture at that. 

A school superintendent in a small city personally did 
more than half of all the work of building his own home ; 
but the work was spread out over two full years. The 
house was not, however, assembled from ready cut 
materials. Instead of weakening him politically, his in- 
dustry of early mornings and on holidays and in vacation 
times and his association with those who sold him mate- 
rials and with the expert workmen whom he had to em- 
ploy in some lines made him many friends. The outdoor 
work also improved his health. 

A high school teacher took over a vacant plot I2o'x 180' 
and raised more than enough vegetables and small fruits 
to feed his own family of five persons. He did it pri- 
marily for fun and health, not to save money. 

A grammar grade man teacher raised fine dogs and 
trained them. 

Another man kept in a small town a metal workshop 
in which for an hour or two every day he mended bicy- 
cles, sharpened skates, and in a small way dealt in second- 
hand tools and garden implements. He trained his boys 
incidentally and carefully avoided making any profit. 

Provided that such outside interests are kept distinctly 
subordinate and are followed primarily for recreation, 
they are desirable and commendable. 

But it must never be forgotten that when a teacher 
really tries large farming, it will soon be a case of a poor 
school or a poor farm. 



CHAPTER XXXV 

WHEN TO RESORT TO MEDICINE AND 
SURGERY 

THERE are some rather familiar opinions among 
laymen and some standard sayings among medical 
men that turn upon the question whether in a particular 
physical trouble to use drugs or the knife ; that is, whether 
to medicate or to operate. The extent of the field in 
which either method is at least occasionally applicable is 
very large. 

There are diseases in which nursing, regimen and 
medicine do all that possibly can be done to correct or 
ameliorate or at least alleviate the trouble. Typhoid fever 
is an instance. 

Again there are diseases in which only surgical opera- 
tions are of any real service. Cancer is an instance. 

But there are many diseases in which both medicine and 
surgery are indicated. Pyorrhea is an instance. 

And there are some diseases in which in seeking help 
one may choose between medication and operation. Ton- 
silitis is such a disease, though, of course, no one should 
operate upon the tonsil, while inflamed, beyond perhaps 
lancing or cauterizing it. 

This last is the (field where the discussion occurs 
whether to operate or to medicate. In many localities, 
there is a tradition as old as folklore to the effect that a 
surgical operation is sure death. This is sometimes modi- 
fied into the proposition that a surgical operation is a last 
resort the bare chance to save an otherwise doomed 

262 



MEDICINE AND SURGERY 263 

life. Such sayings as these are common in some neigh- 
borhoods, " The hospitals are on the road to the ceme- 
tery." " When doctors don't know how to cure, they 
cut." " No one ever lives long after an operation ; a year 
or two perhaps." " It was a successful operation, but as 
usual the patient died." When a physician advises even 
a strong man who has been reared in such ancient lore, 
the face of the patient blanches and his knees shake under 
him. 

But among the younger men of the medical profession, 
and also among the abler, the situation is stated otherwise. 
" Better a quick cure with the knife than a slow cure with 
drugs." " With medicine only, the patient might live a 
few months; by an operation, he will get several years 
more of life." " Drugs kill more than scalpels kill." 

And the young man of the modern medical school and 
hospital, taught as he has been by the veterans of great 
ability, has all the facts with him. In the past one hun- 
dred years the average length of life in America has in- 
creased by a dozen years; in this increase, surgery has 
played an important part. There are hundreds of thou- 
sands of men alive and at work now wr^m surgery saved 
promptly from near and certain death. 

Another line of remarks includes such statements as 
these : " Give medicine to old men and to all women 
but operate upon young men and all children." " Sur- 
gery for the rich ; medicine for the poor." " After an 
operation, one's never the same ; Nature never meant men 
to be cut up; if possible, cure with medicine." 

Urban and rural teachers are quick to say such things 
as have been quoted when in their own cases surgery is 
advised rather than medicine and regimen. But the truth 
is that to say that any particular trouble is irremediable 
by the knife may be to say that no real cure is possible, 

Tens of thousands of teachers are dragging along today 



264 THE HEALTH OF THE TEACHER 

under handicaps that could be lifted immediately by sur- 
gery. In some instances, they do not know that their 
troubles can be promptly cured; but in many cases, they 
are afraid of surgery. 

There was a case of a young woman, of twenty-three 
years; blonde, large, always ailing. Her family physi- 
cian reported that she had tonsilitis several times a year. 
She was a wonderful swimmer and worked hard in school 
as the muscular motor do; she was indeed unhappy be- 
cause of being so strong. She was nevertheless sickly. 
An examination showed an infected mouth and hyper- 
trophied tonsils with a general state of subacute inflam- 
mation in her throat. No adenoids. She went to a hos- 
pital next day. Two days later, she was out. One week 
later, she was back at school. Six months later, she was 
a new woman ; stronger, heavier, and happier. One year 
later, she was in a great city newspaper editorial office, 
successfully filling a position that required perfect health 
as well as natural force and poise, at a salary beyond her 
possible reach in ten years in any school system. 

Another instance is more unusual. The man was past 
fifty years of age, a school principal, never married. He 
had severe kidney disease. Two surgical operations ef- 
fected a radical change. In six months, he was back at 
work. In one year, he was married. Four years later, 
he was in a state of health and vigor such as he had not 
known since his youth. Surgery gave him a physical 
rebirth. 

The world war has both revealed the wonders of mod- 
ern surgery and also amazingly stimulated its progress 
and development. The new age will see in the fields of 
peace the larger fruits of these war-miracles of the field 
and base hospitals. 

Among the diseases now in many instances immedi- 
ately curable in their early stages by surgery without 



MEDICINE AND SURGERY 265 

medication are these, viz : Catarrh ; gallstones and cal- 
culi generally in liver, bladder and kidneys ; appendicitis ; 
eye-inflammations; and mastoiditis. Such are a few 
illustrations. Until modern surgery has spoken, it may 
be a serious mistake to imagine that some particular dis- 
ease is incurable and irremediable. 

An instance in point was that of a teacher whose face 
for years was disfigured by pimples and blotches. This 
skin trouble made her so unhappy that she would not fre- 
quent general society. But she found a specialist, a prac- 
titioner of the finest standing, who by surgical methods 
completely cured her in three months so that the disease 
never returned. Were this a medical work, the method 
might be presented here. 

The high cost of surgery is often cited as a reason for 
avoiding it. But in truth generally the surgical operation 
costs much less than medical treatment more or less irreg- 
ularly called in. The too thrifty need sometimes to be re- 
minded that not many surgical operations cost as much as 
a decent funeral and burial. Of course, teachers are self- 
respecting and often do not like to explain that they have 
not fifteen or fifty or possibly a hundred dollars in cash 
on hand ; perhaps, their disease has caused their poverty. 
But most physicians and surgeons are very kind to teach- 
ers in such circumstances. The general spirit of the pro- 
fession is beautiful. Besides this, men who are good 
physicians and surgeons delight in curing the sick. 

Ordinary persons do not enjoy telling about or listening 
to tales of physical woe; but the physician and the sur- 
geon are extraordinary persons. 

Sometimes, it takes moral courage to "go under the 
knife." Many operations are now performed under local 
anesthesia. Indeed, complete anesthesia under ether and 
chloroform is necessary only for radical and distinctly 
serious operations. 



266 THE HEALTH OF THE TEACHER 

Finally, pain is the lot of woman ; there is no pain worse 
than that of the woman in childbirth. Those who shrink 
from surgical operations might do well to remember that 
those who cannot face and endure pain are scarcely fit to 
live anyway. The grit to endure surgery is a fair cer- 
tificate of sound human character. 

No man knows where the triumphs of surgery will end. 
Modern science and art have at last availed to operate 
even upon the heart itself. Brain operations are com- 
mon. The entire stomach may be taken away; or five 
feet of the bowel ; and the recoveries may be perfect and 
permanent, greatly prolonging life and bringing happi- 
ness. 



CHAPTER XXXVI 

CHOICE OF HABITAT AND ARRANGEMENT 
OF HOME 

IN the care of one's health, too often five closely asso- 
ciated environmental features are totally ignored be- 
cause they are not even observed; and even when ob- 
served, very often they are pushed aside and neglected 
because they seem to be of no importance to the observer. 
These five features are, 

1. Choice of habitat. 

2. Choice of location within this habitat. 

3. Choice of home. 

4. Arrangement within the home. 

5. Arrangement of bedroom. 

A mistake in any one of these five matters may lead to 
morbidity and even to death, as the facts of experience 
abundantly prove. 

First, when one has any choice of position open, one, 
should notice not merely the salaries but also the vital 
statistics connected with the various openings from which 
one may choose. 

The records of the various registration areas of the 
United States through a long term of years shows that 
among all American cities St. Paul and Minneapolis, " the 
twin cities of the Northwest," stand very high in health, 
appearing to average only 10 deaths per thousand per 
year. This may be due in part to the Scandinavian stock 
in the neighborhood, which is famously long-lived ; but the 
climates of Scandinavia and of the Northwest may have 

267 



268 THE HEALTH OF THE TEACHER 

quite as much to do with the long lives of the dwellers 
in " the twin cities " as the breeds of the men there. 
Even Scandinavians are not all of one breed ; rather they 
are of three distinct breeds, all of them long-lived, though 
not equally so. 

On the other side, there are cities with conspicuously 
bad records in respect to deaths and serious illnesses. 
Anyone may look them up in the census reports and even 
in the larger annual almanacs. In some of these cities, 
there are annual averages of as high as 35 and even 45 
deaths per thousand. 

When 1,000 people live continuously in a city with a 
death rate of 10 per annum, their average age at death is 
50 years, while as a matter of theoretical statistics 10 sur- 
vive to be 100 years old, 20 at least 99 years ; 30, 98 years, 
etc. Any observer who takes the trouble to investigate 
the cities of the Northwest immediately notices the very 
large number of persons who have attained 70 and even 
80 years of age. 

But when 1,000 people live continuously in a city with 
a death rate of 20 per annum, their average age at death 
is but 25 years. Many American cities are content with 
this record. (It was 18 per 1,000 even in supposedly 
healthful New York, our greatest city, in 1918.) And in 
cities and towns with the very bad record of perhaps 40 
per 1,000 per annum, the average age at death is but i2 l / 2 
years. 

Of course, practically, the situation is never like this in 
truth, for even in the worst cities some persons survive 
to be 70, 80, even 90 and occasionally 100 years of age. 
These, however, are the ones who warp the average up 
too high. Practically, what one finds, say, in a city of 
perhaps 100,000 people with a death rate of 18 per 1,000 
is a set of statistics something like these, for a term of 
years, viz. 



CHOICE OF HABITAT 269 

Dying above 90 years of age I 

Dying from 80-89 years of age 15 

" 70-79 " " " 50 

" 60-69 " " " ioo 

" 50-59 " " " 150 

" 40-49 " " " 150 

" 30-39 " " " 175 

" 20-29 " " " 200 

" 10-19 " " " 250 

" 1-9 " " " 300 

" under I year of age 400 



Total 1,791 

Another city with perhaps the same death rate .may 
have many more deaths under 50 years of age and many 
less therefore over 50 years of age. Probably, the former 
is a residential city of the North or Pacific Coast, while 
the latter may be an industrial city of the South or East. 

This, however, is not quite so important as the definite 
inquiry into the deaths of teachers in service, where the 
records of some cities are very much worse than in other 
cities. Climate, general city sanitation, and special school- 
house sanitation make very great differences. 

The same differences are to be found in country dis- 
tricts. A village like a town or city may have a salubri- 
ous or a morbific site ; it pays to find out before one ac- 
cepts a position. Some cities lie in deep valleys between 
mountains. Some cities are typhoid centers. Some cities 
have heavy winter and spring rains. Some cities are 
surrounded by marshes. Some cities have strong, wet 
winds. 

There is a fall line in Massachusetts forty-five miles 
back from the coast immediately below which, for months 
in spring and autumn every morning, there are long, 



270 THE HEALTH OF THE TEACHER 

heavy fogs. The same is true of the city of Washington, 
and of many points for four hundred miles southward. 
Yet above this fall line upon the plateau, conditions are 
notably healthful. 

Some cities have very heavy local rains. The same 
considerations apply to villages and to the countryside. 
Persons with weak eyes should keep away from the sun- 
lighted Southwest with its 3,500 hours of cloudless sky a 
year and seek the Northeast with its 2,250 hours or less. 

Some cities have climates that develop many sore 
throats and similar ills, while other cities develop rheu- 
matism. It is not true that " there are equal troubles 
everywhere; if it's not one thing, it's another." Of 
course, everywhere diseases end most lives; and every- 
where men fall sick either from epidemic or self-origi- 
nated diseases. But the truth is that some localities are 
astonishingly free of disease, while other localities are so 
especially cursed with disease that their very soils seem 
to be infected, and the disease-carriers among the popula- 
tion are dangerously numerous. 



A COMPARISON OF DEATH RATES 

An investigation of over 200 cemeteries showed ex- 
tremely different results. In two cemeteries, side by side, 
belonging to two nearby churches, also side by side, the 
respective averages at death of all the numbers of the 
dead were 56 and 34 years of age. An investigation 
showed the causes. 

1. The church with the better record had few drinkers 
of alcoholic stimulants. 

2. It had a much higher per cent of well educated 
persons. 

3. It had a much higher per cent of owners of business 
enterprises, of farms, etc. 



CHOICE OF HABITAT 271 

4. It had a much higher per cent of adults to the whole 
population. 

5. Its members came from a considerably greater va- 
riety of stocks and breeds. 

6. They married later in life ; and a smaller percentage 
of them married. 

From these causes, it was easy to discover why the 
other church had a worse record in respect to the average 
age at death. 

1. Its members, both men and women, were mostly 
" drinking persons," beer and tea were their favorite 
beverages. Also they were heavy eaters. 

2. They were generally ignorant. 

3. Mostly they were the wage-employes of others and 
had to obey clock, calendar, rules and orders, ailing or 
not, or lose their jobs. 

4. They had large families of children, and the death 
rates both of the children and of the mothers were very 
high. 

5. Mostly they came of blond Saxon ancestry and were 
liable to the diseases characteristic of this stock, which is 
not hardy though it is vital and is in that sense healthy 
enough. It is not, however, even at its best vigorously re- 
sistant to disease like the Scotch and Welsh. 

6. They married young and had large families early in 
life, setting up thereby home-conditions very trying to 
the parents. 

Investigation also showed that the church with the 
higher death rate controlled the public school affairs, in- 
cluding the selection of teachers. Now some of these 
aspects of vital statistics would not affect the question 
whether or not a teacher should accept a position in the 
schools of this country village ; but others would affect it. 
The prevalence of certain diseases such as pneumonia and 
typhoid in this village constituted a menace to health. 



272 THE HEALTH OF THE TEACHER 

The general ignorance of hygiene and of sanitation made 
the work of the teachers much more difficult. Moreover, 
they were a hospitable and friendly folk, expecting others 
to join with them in eating and in drinking at their home 
meals, which were truly feasts of good things. 

The particular site was a wind-swept plain with no 
forests or even woodlots anywhere near the roads that 
led to the central schoolhouse, a site objectionable in 
summer for want of cool shade and in winter for want of 
wind-breaks. 

Such illustrations may be multiplied without adding 
anything but evidence by way of proof. It is one matter 
to teach in the cotton mill cities of eastern Massachusetts 
and a different matter to teach in the residential suburbs 
of Boston and a vastly different matter to teach in a 
Cape Cod village. Still greater extremes are offered by 
the schools of the Dakota plains or of the irrigation proj- 
ects of the Rocky Mountain region. 

It is a healthy and a wise instinct that prompts anyone 
to make inquiries as to the habitat itself before deciding 
to take a school there. Anyone who is free to seek a 
teaching position anywhere does well to find out the 
climate and other health characteristics of various locali- 
ties. The variety of climates in America is truly incred- 
ible at first impression. Between the sections where the 
snow falls in the winters to depths of a dozen feet and 
where it stays on the ground more than five months and 
the sections about the Gulf of Mexico where the winters 
are short, mild and damp ; and again between the sections 
where summer breezes and winter winds blow from the 
mountain tops to the sections of the Pacific Coast where 
the year is properly divided not into cold and hot but into 
wet and dry, there are very great differences that vitally 
concern the health of every one, including teachers, who 
must go out of doors daily in all weathers. 



CHOICE OF HABITAT 273 

Neither geographies nor guidebooks are wholly trust- 
worthy. The best information comes only from longtime 
residents who have no real estate to sell ! 



THE HOME LOCATION 

Once that the habitat has been chosen or otherwise 
determined, the second question concerns location within 
the habitat. Usually, in every city and upon the country- 
side, some localities are much better than others. The 
question must be asked by any wise person rather from 
the point of view of health conditions than of social 
advantages. 

There is one small city in this country with no less than 
five different sources of water supply, viz. 

1. Driven artesian deep wells that supply about one- 
fourth of the inhabitants. 

2. A small brook that supplies about one-half of the 
city. 

3. Cisterns taking rain water from the house-roofs. 

4. Private artesian deep wells. 

5. Springs in back lots and in cellars. 

This city has a hillside location, and in over one-half 
of it, outside privies are still permitted. 

The brook water in time of freshet runs mud. The 
whole stream at any time is wide open to infection. 

In a certain city, the mouth of the main sewer, which 
discharges into a brook, is within a few hundred feet of a 
great factory surrounded by tenements. 

In another city, there is a vast abattoir to the south- 
east from which upon certain winds come overpowering 
stenches. The southeastern quarter of the city is unde- 
sirable for residence by persons with sensitive olfactories, 
for these stenches sometimes induce in such persons nau- 
sea and other troubles. 



274 THE HEALTH OF THE TEACHER 

Some cities lies partly upon hillsides and partly in 
valleys. There will be in such cities a variety of local 
climates. It makes a deal of difference whether one lives 
upon a northeast slope or not. Southern hill slopes are 
generally best for residence in the northern part of the 
United States. 

When a city lies upon a plain, because most winds are 
westerly, by living upon the west side, one avoids the 
smoke of city factories, mills, stores and houses. 

That on a great scale, the vast metropolitan population 
about New York harbor has materially changed the cli- 
mate of the land eastward by heating and drying and 
filling the air with dust, smoke and gas for many miles 
eastward, no well informed person doubts. Both the rain 
gauge and the thermometer shpw this. So on a small 
scale, every city east of the Rocky Mountains affects to 
an extent the climate immediately to its eastward. 

The first twenty-two cities of our country in area are 
all upon waterways, ocean, bay, lake or great river. In 
general, anyone does well to avoid an all-the-year home 
upon or near a waterfront. The nuisance of mosquitoes 
and other insects makes it desirable to keep away also 
from ponds, swamps and other still water. 

In the large cities, it is almost impossible to find quiet 
neighborhoods. The nights roar with elevated trains and 
trolley cars ; and the early mornings rattle with milk 
wagons. Yet there are differences between localities. 
It is better to travel some miles and find a moderately 
quiet location rather than to lose sleep night and morning 
by living on a street near one's school. It is true that 
the pupils and parents dwell in -the din, night and day, 
year* in and year out; it is also -true that many teachers 
seem " able to stand the ceaseless racket " ; but noise both 
dulls the mental activities and robs the vital reserves, and 



CHOICE OF HABITAT 275 

thereby night noise spoils one's efficiency as a day teacher 
and shortens one's life. 

The rule then is this : Wherever one is to teach, try to 
find the most healthful part of the place in which to live 
and, if possible, live there. To this, there is a natural 
corollary, when one locality proves upon trial to be 
unhealthful, get out of it as soon as possible and into 
the best locality open to one's homemaking. 



THE RESIDENCE ITSELF 

The third feature of the environment connected with 
one's life is that of the choice of the house itself. Of 
course, in very large cities, there are no houses with 
grounds and trees ; but elsewhere one often has a consider- 
able range of choice. 

Stone houses are warm in winter and usually cool in 
summer. Seldom, however, do they have verandas upon 
which in good weather one may sit of an evening and 
enjoy the air. 

Brick houses are warm in winter, but generally they are 
damp both winter and summer. 

Corner houses have more air circulation, but they are 
also noisier than inside houses. 

In summer, it is delightful to have trees in the yard 
of a small city home ; but except in arid sections, too many 
trees are worse than none at all because they release too 
much moisture and block the breezes. 

A frame house with grounds about it, with some trees 
but not too many, inside the block and not upon the 
corner, set well back from the street, makes the best 
home generally for the teacher. 

When one must seek lodgings and board, which is the 
lot of most teachers, some other inquiries are worth 



276 THE HEALTH OF THE TEACHER 

making. The obvious ones concern the number of other 
inmates of the house, their times of rising and retiring and 
other social or antisocial habits, the children, if any, and 
the use of a general parlor and of other rooms. 

Into some other matters also one should inquire when 
there is any choice of rooms. 

More than one teacher has died from defective plumb- 
ing in a boarding house. How is one to tell positively? 
There is no available certain way ; but the mere appear- 
ance of some bathrooms and kitchens is sufficient to warn 
the wary. 

There was a case of severe and prolonged typhoid 
fever whose source was inscrutable until it happened that 
some plumbing gave way when it was found that a soil 
pipe joint had never been soldered and that this soil pipe 
joint was only a few feet from the head of the bed and 
directly below the clothes closet of the one person in the 
house who at that time contracted the disease. Investiga- 
tion showed, however, that this particular bedroom had a 
history of high morbidity and mortality despite the fact 
that it had five windows upon a southeast corner. It is 
by no means to be supposed that the infections came 
directly from the gases of the soil pipe ; but it is probable 
that these gases lowered the vital tone of the occupants of 
the room. 

The safest plumbing is the exposed modern scientific 
plumbing. A bathroom tiled with enamelled fixtures 
connected with exposed nickel-plated plumbing should go 
a long way to offset any advantages whatever supposed to 
attach to any other boarding-house. Of course, the ideal 
way is for every teacher to have a private bathroom 
equipped in modern style. This costs money; but there 
are few other ways in which a teacher can spend money 
more advantageously. 

One who is looking for lodgings should also ask about 



CHOICE OF HABITAT 277 

the heating plant. Theoretically, hot air properly humidi- 
fied is best ; but practically from several causes, it is the 
worst, i. Generally, it is not delivered at a proper point 
in the bedroom to keep it warm for afternoon and eve- 
ning occupation. 2. Generally, it is not humidified but is 
as dry as the air of Arizona in August. 3. Practically, it 
is hot in mild weather and barely warm in cold weather. 
4. Often, the air delivered into the room is not taken from 
outdoors, ten feet above the ground level, as it should be 
but from the cellar or even from some room in the house 
itself. Therefore, it is not clean, fresh air full of ozone 
but a bad mixture of dust, gases, damp and fumes. 

Practically, steam and hot water are both good. 

Theoretically and practically, the heat of gas stoves 
and open fires is worst because with it carbon monoxide 
is liberated, which is odorless but destructive of lung 
tissue, predisposing one to pneumonia, bronchitis and 
tuberculosis. 

Also, it is worth while to inquire about barns, poultry 
houses, garages nearby and canary birds or parrots in the 
house. 

There was a case of a teacher whose nervous break- 
down and death were upon careful investigation directly 
attributed by competent observers to a large poultry 
yard full of all manner of fowls, some of them noisy 
from the first crack of dawn every morning. She could 
not sleep because of the din. And circumstances were 
such that she neither moved out nor protested against this 
invasion of her sleep. 



CHOICE OF ROOM 

When a teacher has any choice of room in a house, it is 
well to consider several of the factors involved. It. is 
pleasant to have a large room, but more important to 



278 THE HEALTH OF THE TEACHER 

have one in which the sun shines for a few hours every 
day. A first floor room may be elegantly furnished, but 
the second floor has better air. It is agreeable not to 
climb over one flight of stairs, but generally a third story 
room has still better air and is much more quiet at night. 

It is convenient to have a room on the same floor with 
the general bathroom of a boarding house; but it is a 
noisy and at times a disagreeable association. 

It may be a mark of social distinction to occupy the 
second story front room with an alcove, because this is 
popularly considered the best room in the house. Also, it 
is convenient of access for one's friends at afternoon tea 
or committee meetings. But the front of a city home is 
generally noisier than the rear, while the opposite is true 
of most rural homes. 

Some rooms have hideous wall paper while others are 
attractive, even beautiful. 

In choosing a room, these are the factors to balance, 
one against another, viz. 

1. Quiet vs. fashionableness. 

2. Interior convenience vs. size. 

3. Interior beauty vs. accessibility. 

4. Sunlight vs. furniture. 

The room that costs the highest per week is not invari- 
ably the best room in the house for a teacher. In ninety- 
nine cases out of a hundred, it is wiser to occupy a small 
room alone than a large room with one or two friends. 
And it is never wise for two teachers to occupy one double 
bed. 

ARRANGING THE FURNITURE 

The ififth feature is the interior arrangement of the 
room. A competent room arranger can do, it seems, al- 
most anything with any room and transform a dreary box 
into an Eden. Of course, to complete such a transfer- 



CHOICE OF HABITAT 279 

mation, the right wall paper, the right pictures, the right 
furniture, the right floor rugs are required; and other 
right things also, such as window shades and curtains, 
bureau toilet articles, bedspread, etc. Bu* though some 
boarding house rooms with their equipment are really 
hopeless, most of them are largely redeemable. 

The first desideratum is to get the bed where at night 
it can be so drawn out as to have fresh air on four sides. 
This is essential. Better still is a sleeping porch. One 
should not breathe for any time at all, night or day, his 
own breath reflected back from a wall. 

The second requirement is as much open floor space as 
possible in a small room or as is desirable in a large 
room. In many American bedrooms, there is too much 
furniture; and improvement begins by removing a chair 
or a table. 

The purpose of a bedroom is to make the occupant 
comfortable, to put him at his ease within its four walls. 
Some bedrooms make their occupants uncomfortable, 
fairly force them out, rasp their very souls. In a real 
home, such as not many teachers have, there are two 
rooms where their souls expand and rest, the library 
and their own bedroom or suite of rooms. 

The third desideratum in a bedroom is one comfortable 
chair properly placed for the light of day and for read- 
ing by whatever artificial light the room may have at 
night. One comfortable chair is quite as important as a 
proper bureau or indeed anything about the room save 
only the mattress and the springs upon the bed. Per- 
sons who are muscularly fatigued can sleep anywhere, 
even in moving freight cars without straw for a bed. 
But teachers generally are nervously exhausted rather 
than muscularly fatigued; they are weary rather than 
tired ; and they need easy springs and elastic mattresses. 
For winter, all wool blankets are less fatiguing than quilts. 



280 THE HEALTH OF THE TEACHER 

Sometimes, a room may have pictures that are well 
enough but are so badly placed that they afford no pleas- 
ure. A few water colors, of course, originals hand- 
painted, add wonderfully to the bedroom. Next come 
photographs of the works of great artists. 

Every teacher should have at least a few favorite books 
well bound; what books, will depend upon the tastes of 
the individual. One person freshens up as soon as he 
reaches his room because he sees there his own familiar, 
well beloved copy of Lowell's Poems but another prefers 
Bunyan's Pilgrim's Progress while a third desires always 
to see some new novel, soon to be discarded for a still 
newer one. 

The one thing greatly to be desired is such an atmos- 
phere in the room as to rest and release the weary and 
imprisoned spirit and to restore the adult man or woman 
from the world of children or of youth to the normal 
world of full-grown adults. 



THE MOTIVES OF LIFE 

These are the ideals, or to speak more strictly the stand- 
ards, that should be definitely in the mind of the teacher 
who is trying to establish such a home as will serve to 
rest one after school and to send one forth to school joy- 
ously every morning. It is altogether normal to look for- 
ward with pleasure to getting home from school work. 

Normal persons do not sleep at night, eat three meals a 
day, take a bath and a walk, and choose their attire in 
order that they may go to work at school or at anything 
else ; but normal persons work for economic returns and 
the social good in order that they may have a home and 
friends and a whole life richly worthwhile twenty-four 
hours a day and every day in the year. The view that 
out of the workplace, one visits one's barracks, cleans up, 



CHOICE OF HABITAT 281 

eats, sleeps, dresses and eats again in order to get back 
to the workplace proceeds from a misconception of the 
nature of personality. Very properly, we measure men 
by their homes, which should be fair representations of 
themselves. 

The teacher of experience whose own home room is not 
attractive and restful never has a schoolroom that the 
children love; because one who does not know how to 
make oneself happy and easy never knows how to please 
the hearts of others. 

Such are the standards respecting choice of habitat and 
arrangement of one's own home as a teacher. Could they 
all be attained, the teacher's would be the ideal life. 
Practically, one must forego even trying to meet all of 
these standards. There are but very few cities in Amer- 
ica where it is reasonable to hope to attain even a ma- 
jority of them. And teachers must teach wherever the 
children and youth are, in the massed tenement districts 
of cities and by lonely stretches of seacoast and upon 
remote hillsides; and the lodging-places of teachers 
must inevitably be much like the lodging-places of their 
children. 

THE SCHOOLHOUSE 

In this connection, there should be a note respecting the 
schoolhouse, the school room and the rest room of the 
teacher at school. Once that the appointment has been 
accepted, one teacher is almost powerless to secure better- 
ment of conditions. Nevertheless, it is proper for every 
teacher to realize several truths. 

First, school conditions do materially affect both the 
health and the happiness of the teacher who in his own 
interest should do what he can to make them better. Sit- 
ting down submissively and accepting slavishly whatever 
conditions a school affords constitute not loyalty to supe- 



282 THE HEALTH OF THE TEACHER 

rior authority but both disloyalty to children and youth 
at school and also disregard of one's own moral rights to 
decent conditions according to the standards of this mod- 
ern civilized nation. 

Second, often what one teacher cannot do, an organ- 
ized group either of teachers alone or of teachers and 
parents can through a period of time, by definite plan and 
endeavor, at last accomplish. Team work of the charac- 
ter indicated is not insubordination to superior authority 
or wild radicalism but sheer self-defense or at most the 
keeping of faith with the best principles of this nation. 

For America has set her goal and is bravely and suc- 
cessfully working towards it, a goal of long and happy 
lives for all men, lit by the high and resplendent stars of 
justice, brotherly kindness, duty to the right and beauty. 
Therefore, both the home and the workshop of the teacher 
should be creditable to the person himself and to the neigh- 
borhood where he works and lives, creditable according 
to the standards of the best men and women there. To 
win such schoolhouses and such homes, sanitary, fire- 
proof, commodious, panicproof, and beautiful, involves 
the will to have them on the part alike of the effective 
minority who control society great and small everywhere 
and of the teachers themselves. But until we as teachers 
desire good homes and good schoolhouses, we shall never 
have them, for they will not be given to us. When built 
at all, they will be given only to those who have aspired 
to them and who have struggled to win them from a busy 
world. 

The teacher who proceeds consciously or unconsciously 
upon the assumption that any accommodations in the way 
of lodging-place and meals will do well enough because he 
" isn't going to teach very long " and who therefore stands 
for almost any degradation of surroundings and poverty 
of conditions as to his own home is making two serious 



CHOICE OF HABITAT 283 

mistakes, one personal, the other social. The personal 
mistake is that he is accustoming himself to endure bad 
conditions and is thereby lowering his own standards for 
life. The social mistake is that he is allowing the world 
to imagine that almost anything is good enough for the 
teacher and that school is an affair anyway beneath the 
serious consideration of real men and women. 

Finally, in respect to one's own home, when the lodging- 
house is also the scene where the meals are secured, the 
inquiring teacher should investigate and consider every- 
thing important relating to the food-supply ; and if things 
are done contrary to modern scientific knowledge, should 
either not live at this particular house or secure reform 
of it. 

There was a case where in a boarding house saucers, 
cups, knives, forks and spoons were washed in lukewarm 
water right at the table and served immediately to the 
next comers to the meals. This boarding house was the 
scene of a serious outbreak of typhoid fever one summer. 
Teachers should never tolerate such procedures, for liv- 
ing as we do public lives, even our toleration sets the 
example to others. To mind high things enough to sup- 
port them, and when need is, to struggle for them, is part 
of the very profession of the teacher. Nor does it de- 
tract one iota from the truly ethical nature of such con- 
duct that we benefit ourselves thereby as well as the 
public. To protect our own health and lives is in a seri- 
ous sense a duty that we owe to those others, who by 
providing us with buildings and books and apparatus and 
salaries enable us to perform our functions of standing 
for truth, justice and beauty and of educating youth 
accordingly. 



CHAPTER XXXVII 
WHAT IS WORRY? 

THE person who never worries save when he is scien- 
tifically or sympathetically interested in others, 
poohpoohs worry, and so far as he ever notices it per- 
haps wonders what for a moment the worry is about and 
stops right there. 

The person who worries all the time about anything, 
everything or nothing never considers what worry is and 
cannot be cured or even helped. But the person who 
worries only at times and then only about some matters 
is curable and worth curing. 

Bismarck was once asked regarding the first Kaiser 
Wilhelm I, with whom no one else could get along, how 
he managed to keep on good terms with his imperial 
master. 

" Oh," he answered, offhand, " I take him as I do the 
weather ! " 

It is a good story ; but some persons persist in worrying 
about even the weather ! 

What is to be said hereafter about worrying and wor- 
ries and worriers is of possible interest only to those who 
worry part of the time abou-t some matters but who do not 
worry all the time about something or other or about 
nothing at all. The person who never worries and who 
does not care whether others worry or not is seldom 
highly intelligent, but he is spared a deal of trouble. It 
takes trouble to develop intelligence to know that there 
is trouble. Some worry is almost inevitable to the man 
of intelligence. 

284 



WHAT IS WORRY? 285 

But the person who is an habitual worrier is on the 
down grade ; both mind and body must suffer and dete- 
riorate. The worry by its ceaseless pressure shuts off 
the gates of relief in play and endeavor and in reconcili- 
ation to fate. 

What, then, is worry? Essentially, it is an inner but 
not yet consciously admitted inadequacy to the problems 
and tasks that confront one. Worry is a pressure to 
attack something beyond one's powers to conquer; and 
it is unwillingness to give up and to admit defeat. Worry 
is the sense of inner weakness, but it is not the lowest 
and the worst form of such a sense of weakness. 

There are persons whose physical and moral courage 
and fortitude are so low that they refuse even to face 
difficulties. They either sit down obstinately where they 
are or else retreat. These are the cowards; they never 
worry. They do not even care whether others worry 
about them or not. They will not hold conversations 
with persons who are disagreeable to themselves. They 
even decline to open letters from those whom they dis- 
like or whom they suspect of being critical and unfriendly. 
Such persons cross to the other side of the street rather 
than so much as pass the place of business of " an enemy." 
As school teachers, they live more or less like hermits. 
All this is due to the sense of inner insufficiency to meet 
adequately what life presents to them. 

The sense of inner weakness that causes worry is a 
somewhat different and a distinctly higher aspect of mind 
and character. It faces but fears danger; it faces for- 
ward and waits for things to happen from others, and 
frets because it feels unable to prevent them. 

This, however, is not the whole nature of worry. In 
psychological terms, worry is the persistence in conscious- 
ness of what one desires out of consciousness. The man 
who worries cannot forget, which means " lay aside." 



1 
286 THE HEALTH OF THE TEACHER 

He cannot frustrate memory, but is the victim of his 
recalled images. To be unable to rid oneself of persist- 
ing ideas is not always unfortunate; it depends mainly 
upon what the ideas are. To be full of some ideas is to 
be fortunate. Genius is nothing but knowing and sur- 
rendering to the great worthwhile ideas. A man of 
genius to an extent always worries until he wins ; but the 
world does not complain about the worries of such a 
man, at least not because they are worries. 

In the ordinary sense, however, of the term, that is, 
according to common sense, worry is excessive consid- 
eration of ideas not worthwhile. This appears when one 
inventories the subjects about which teachers worry. 

Frequently, teachers worry about the way their chil- 
dren behave and do their work at school. In some cases, 
tired teachers dream that their children misbehave so 
badly that they lose their positions or that they perform 
so poorly in examinations as to cause visitors to condemn 
or ridicule themselves. Such dreams show that work and 
worry are bringing the dreamers into serious ill-health. 

Another field in which grow many of the weeds of 
worry of teachers is that of their relations with their 
superior officers, superintendents, board members, etc., 
and with parents. These worries concern many matters 
such as 

1. Visits, conferences and meetings. 

2. Tenure and salaries. 

3. Complaints of parents, 

4. Incorrigible children. 

5. Rules, orders and directions from superiors. 

6. Reports to superiors. 

7. Personal relations and associations. 

These are such as are inseparably connected with every 
style of employment ; they or their like are to be found in 
factories, in stores, even in churches. They are not 






WHAT IS WORRY? 287 

wholly to be escaped even in homes and families and 
among kindred. 



ABSENCE OF SELF-ALIENATION 

Why then do teachers suffer more than any other per- 
sons from these worries of social relationships? They 
think they do; but it is largely imagination, due to the 
misunderstanding of a situation resultant from absence of 
self -alienation in teachers, for self-alienation is upon a 
psychological plane higher than most teachers have at- 
tained. And some of those who worry are worrying 
solely because they cannot see themselves as others see 
them, they cannot become detached from themselves 
and stand off and look at themselves as objects in the 
social scene. It is utterly useless to try to explain self- 
effacement, self-alienation, social detachment, aloofness 
from oneself to those who have not yet experienced this. 

No self-detached person is capable of the many severe 
worries of the self-absorbed persons. Indeed, it appears 
that the direct thinking out of oneself into the lives of 
others is itself both the solution of worries and the means 
of freedom for all future worries. 

There are a thousand anecdotes to illustrate the many 
values of troubles once solved as prophylactics against 
future worries regarding trouble. The real veteran in 
life has learned not to worry and how not to worry. 
Whether this lesson can be taught to others by a veteran 
in the experiences of life is somewhat doubtful. To be 
able to learn from the experiences of others is to possess 
a rare and precious gift. 

SOME CASES OF WORRY 

Perhaps a few of these many anecdotes may help some 
one who worries. 



288 THE HEALTH OF THE TEACHER 

She was an earnest member of her church but very 
unhappy because she was discontented and aware of being 
discontented. She went to her pastor and told him about 
her great trouble in that not even her religion gave her a 
contented mind. She made several calls upon him with- 
out relief. Then for a month or more, she refrained 
from laying her burden upon his soul. At length, he met 
her on the street, and stopping her, asked how she was 
getting on with her unhappy trouble of not having a con- 
tented mind. Her answer was this, " Well, I just de- 
cided that I'd be content not to have a contented mind ! " 

Another story illustrates how differently we assess the 
values and troubles of life. The two young men of 
business were good friends. One morning, Charles went 
to Edward and said he had a note of $200 that he could 
not meet and that if he did not meet it, the note would go 
to protest, which might force him into insolvency. 

Edward replied," That is certainly too bad. I don't 
see how very well I could let you have the money, but if 
you cannot raise it by two o'clock, I'll try to get the $200 
for you before the bank closes." 

At two o'clock, Charles came around and said that he 
could not raise the money ; he had tried in every quarter. 
Would his friend save him from disgrace and perhaps 
ruin? 

" I'll be at the bank at 2 45 p. M. with the money. I'd 
do almost anything for you, my friend." 

And so before the bank closed that afternoon, Charles 
took up the loan for his dear friend Edward. As they 
left the bank, Edward seized his benefactor's hand and 
wrung it effusively, saying, 

" Why, man, if you hadn't let me have that $200, do 
you know that my wife would have had to draw the 
money from her own savings bank account? Just think 
of it ! " 






WHAT IS WORRY? 289 

And Edward answered sadly, " So ? That would have 
been too bad for your wife, I'm sure. I got the money 
by pawning my wife's jewelry. Goodbye ! " 



THOUGHT AND ENDEAVOR 

1. Hard thinking is not worry. In some instances, 
deliberate, persistent, intense thinking solves the problem 
that causes the worry. Why not set to and think ? 

2. In some instances, seriously considered, the worry 
is about something of no real and vital importance. Seri- 
ously considered, there are not over half a dozen topics 
worth worrying about; these serious topics concern life 
and death directly and indirectly, sin and remorse, debt 
beyond reasonable probability of payment and such mat- 
ters. Why worry about trivialities ? 

3. In other instances, the worry concerns something 
that one is powerless to change. Man is not captain of 
his own fate; and he becomes captain of his own soul 
partly by renouncing the ambition to master all circum- 
stances. 

Emerson wrote, 

" So near is grandeur to our dust, 
So nigh is God to man, 
When duty whisp.ers low, ' Thou must ! ( ' 
The youth replies, ' 1 can ! ' " 

And swallowing the exhortation whole, gulping it down 
en bloc, many a person makes himself sick, tackling jobs 
and confronting situations that no one person can deal 
with successfully. 

Some foolish person once said, " In the bright lexicon 
of youth, there is no such word as ' fail.' " But it is the 
puppy who sticks to the root, not the grown dog. Jesus 



290 THE HEALTH OF THE TEACHER 

was far wiser and often said that no man is responsible 
for more than his power to perform ; is not this part of 
the meaning of the parable of the talents ? * 

Pedants and pedagogues, doctrinaires and their ilk 
often lay burdens upon others that they will not lift their 
own hands to ease for others. All " executives " and 
" leaders," including " educationalists " and " reformers," 
college presidents and school superintendents are liable to 
the temptation of asking their official subordinates (who 
may nevertheless be their intellectual and moral supe- 
riors) to do things quite beyond common sense. 

Why worry over the impossible ? 

There was the case of a young woman to whom was 
given, the first year out of normal school, in a city a class 
of over ninety children in a makeshift room without ven- 
tilation. She knew that the burden was too great to be 
borne ; but she feared to resign lest she could not get an- 
other position and might become a burden upon her poor 
old parents for some months. The superintendent of 
schools and board of education refused to do anything 
to relieve her, they said that she would have to stand it. 

She stood it for eight months and died. Her poor 
parents had to pay the costs of her burial. The city 
school superintendent had to resign, such was the public 
indignation when the facts came out, for that board had 
a cash balance of over $5,000. at the end of the very 
year when they alleged that they " could not do any- 
thing." 

Why keep on trying to brave out the intolerable? 
When they tell you that others defeat the invincible, don't 
you believe it. That is all well enough in war against 
barbarians ; but it is no rule for peaceful, civilized, social 
life. 

4. Because worry is in part the sense of insufficiency 
to a task or problem, in some instances the true solution 



WHAT IS WORRY? 291 

is to strengthen oneself physically in order to endure. 
Mere willing to endure is itself wearing to anyone. 

There was a case of a young woman teacher who had 
been given a terribly hard task, governing fifty-five chil- 
dren with a wretched man teacher in the next room (it 
was a thinly built, poorly heated 2-room schoolhouse). 
He was in charge of twenty older children who were 
always in disorder. She talked the case over with her 
father, the village postmaster in the town next to her 
school district ; and they decided what was the thing 
to do. She bought a horse good for both riding and 
driving; and every day either drove or rode six miles to 
her school and back, and she took care of the horse her- 
self. Her father and mother conspired to make her 
home a sanitarium; they had her in bed every night be- 
fore a school day not later than eight-thirty. As the 
result, in three years, she had actually gained in weight 
and strength despite her school environment. This young 
lady had a Scotch father and a Dutch mother; perhaps 
heredity accounts for their wise course as a family. 

The public saw the struggle and the victory; and this 
woman, no longer very young, is now recognized as the 
best teacher in a considerable town. 

A thorough, continuous study of one's own needs and 
reactions may show one what to do in order to become 
strong enough to overcome some difficulties, but not 
all, by no means all of them. 

Beware of all flatterers, whether they speak with human 
voices or are but echoes from stimulants or narcotics. 
Learn what not to undertake. Then having undertaken, 
learn what to do in order to be strong and enduring 
enough to insure success. Do not send good money after 
bad ; try to get new business. Some boys are incorrigible ; 
some children are feeble-minded. Try them out and hav- 
ing tried, follow your decisions. Some school officers are 



292 THE HEALTH OF THE TEACHER 

impossible. Having experienced their incompetence or 
cruelty, quit them. In truth, depart, shaking off the dust 
of your shoes as witness against them. 

5. We may strengthen ourselves by such physical 
methods as are outlined here or by various psychical 
methods, some of which have already been suggested, 
while others may be added. It pays to read biography 
and to discover what men can and what they cannot 
endure. Though it is not true that " what men have 
borne, men may bear " in the sense that all things are 
endurable by any man with the requisite bravery and for- 
titude, it still is true that sometimes we are stronger than 
we know or even dare to hope. In the general course of 
events, the troubles that we anticipate will probably not 
be the ones that in real experience will ever bear upon us 
heavily. Moreover, often there comes help from an un- 
imagined quarter. " While there's life, there's hope " is a 
good slogan, not wholly true, and yet in some in- 
stances apparently true as by miracle. No one has yet 
fathomed the mystery of life; no one has yet ever read 
even so much as one day of the future. 

Any person who has lived long knows well that the 
survivors of life's warfare, the victors in earth's battles, 
the winners in the human arena are not mostly those to 
whom success seemed likely. Many an invalid outlives 
the athletes of his youth. Many a poor man becomes 
rich, and many a rich man becomes poor. There are 
some persons fully matured at twenty years of age ; they 
never grow wiser or stronger. And there are some who 
change more in essential character and ability from twenty 
to forty years of age than they did from ten to twenty. 
Even in still later decades, here and there are men and 
women growing and improving in essential qualities. 

There was a teacher who went back to his twentieth 
college class reunion ; he had been the class valedictorian ; 



WHAT IS WORRY? 293 

he walked in among a score of his classmates, and not 
one recognized him or could guess who he was. Yet in 
that score were some whose class photographs taken at 
twenty years of age would have served admirably for 
them at forty years of age. Sometimes, trouble and 
endeavor enlarge and quicken a man or woman, it seems, 
almost " overnight." It is unwise immediately upon 
being confronted with what seems unbearable or impos- 
sible to surrender or retreat. 

6. Most nearly hopeless are those who insis-t upon la- 
menting the past. 

The last minute is as dead as that minute when Brutus 
slew Caesar or that still earlier minute when Esau sold 
his birthright to Jacob for a mess of pottage. And it is 
as idle for one to regret what has just happened as what 
happened ten years before. The worriers are always la- 
menting lost and past opportunities; and every lament 
but adds to the golden moments that have been lost. 
The same man who worries about what is going to hap- 
pen or what may happen is the very man who worries 
about what did happen and torments himself because he 
did not prevent its happening. In psychological terms, 
this means that his life is a mere thread and that his inter- 
ests are few and confined narrowly to himself. To such 
as this man who worries over the past and the future 
come these important sayings, viz. 

" Now is the accepted time ; now is the day of salva- 
tion." 

" Let the dead bury their own dead." 

" To him that overcometh, I shall be his God, and he 
shall be My son." 

If possible, get out of this swift and narrow stream of 
emotional life. Forget yourself when you go to bed and 
remember that now is the time to sleep. 



294 THE HEALTH OF THE TEACHER 



LAYING CARE ASIDE 

That was a very good teacher who said, " When I 
leave my school and turn my back upon the door, I for- 
get it until next morning when I leave my home and go 
back to my school again." This is not to be taken too 
literally. It is not always possible to clean up one's 
desk and to leave all one's work ready for the next day 
at the hour when the janitor is waiting to lock the school- 
house door. Indeed, it is really better to leave the school 
when the children do and go out for rest and play, even 
if one must do an hour's work in the evening, than to 
linger wearily at the school. After school work often 
means work done slowly and with many mistakes. Nev- 
ertheless, the principle implied in the remark is correct, 
" Work hard, play freely, and rest in total obliviousness 
to one's usual tasks." That platform orator never really 
does ve^ry well who cannot get his speech off his mind 
either before or after getting it up out of his throat. 
And that teacher soon wears out who thinks ceaselessly 
about his teaching both before and after giving the les- 
son. A painter may work upon a picture for an hour 
too long ; and the painter who gets to thinking a deal 
about the pictures that he has painted already will soon 
cease to paint any more pictures. 

Any one who thinks much about the past or who wor- 
ries about the contingent future, instead of thinking hard 
about the immediate future, the next few minutes, the 
next few days, is in danger of being classified by others 
as either anemic or senescent. Theodore Roosevelt once 
replied to a request for an engagement a year ahead that 
he never tied up his time or bound his mind to anything 
so remote as a year ahead. This is by no means a uni- 
versally wise rule, but it serves for practical purposes as 
a safeguard against worry about what may never happen. 



WHAT IS WORRY? 295 

The old finish too often their life careers in vain hopes 
to get back into the game once more or in equally vain 
reminiscences. The truly young, whatever their years, 
work, and do not worry about the work itself or the re- 
sults. They follow truth and principle wherever these 
lead; perhaps, blindly but very often with great success. 

This is the psychological aspect of worry, which is 
none the less essentially a physiological process. Once 
that one begins to analyze worry as a process in the two- 
fold nature of man as body and as mind, one has already 
begun to defeat worry. 

Worry is the admission of incompetence silently to 
oneself. 

Worry is physical deterioration. 

Worry is moral cowardice. 

Worry is obsession by ideas. 

Worry is victimization either by imagination or by 
memory. 

Worry is fear of the future, which may never come. 

Worry is evidence of self-absorption. 

Worry is unwillingness to seek to accomplish ends by 
sufficient means. 

Worry is the road to invalidism and to senility. 

Worry is the enemy of work and the negation of faith. 

Finally, when one worries about one's health, why not 
remember that for immediate purposes of accomplish- 
ment, it is far better to be a strong, sick man than a weak, 
well one ; and that when a strong, sick man actually does 
kill himself with work, he never has to worry at all. 



CHAPTER XXXVIII 
WINNING OLD AGE: SUMMARY 

THE woman school superintendent of the Far West 
county who rides east an dwest more than one 
hundred miles within her own educational jurisdiction, 
making ten, fifteen, twenty miles a day on horseback, suf- 
fers from some inconveniences to health not even im- 
agined by the woman city school principal. She may be- 
come ill when many miles away from any ranch, alone 
upon the plains or in the mountains. She may not have 
a good bed one night in five upon which to sleep. She 
has the fear often of personal danger. When away from 
the county seat on school visitation, she has no control 
of her diet but must eat what is set before her or go 
hungry. Only those who have travelled in lonely lands 
can imagine the routine of discomforts such a school offi- 
cer must endure. It is a case of preferring health to 
the preservation of the social rules summarized for women 
under the term " modesty," which preference requires 
moral valor. 

The contrast is that of isolation versus crowding. 

There was a woman city primary school supervisor. 
Her second predecessor back in that position had died 
of overwork bringing on insomnia and insanity. Her 
immediate predecessor had died of neurasthenia, after 
but six years of experience. The friends of this woman 
urged her not to take the position; but for several rea- 
sons, she allowed her ambition to overcome her own bet- 
ter judgment. These were that she had a family of high 
social position and believed that with their help she could 

296 



WINNING OLD AGE: SUMMARY 297 

overcome some of the hitherto insuperable obstacles to 
success as primary supervisor; that the salary was much 
higher than what she was then receiving; and that she 
really believed the schools needed service of the kind 
within her power to render. 

Six years later, she had made herself nationally famous 
for her genuine success, and she was greatly beloved by 
most of the teachers under her guidance. But she was 
ill in a sanitarium from work and worry. The need of 
money had nothing to do with the case ; her income was 
three times her salary; and she lived at home at no ex- 
pense. 

There were no physical peculiarities, calculated to lead 
to such a breakdown ; this woman was about fifty years 
of age, of the familiar Anglo-Saxon type, with a com- 
bination of two sometimes irreconcilable traits, amiabil- 
ity and eager energy. Her body coefficient was 2.2, which 
is standard. 

Once in the position, the same pressures fell upon her 
as upon her predecessors. Some teachers were " pull- 
ing " for promotion. Other teachers were shirking that 
they might enjoy the very active evening social life of their 
city. There were always many vacancies to be filled, for 
the salaries of the teachers were low in this city, and 
the primary supervisor was forever training substitutes. 
The city normal school duties, attached to the position, 
filled in every apparently spare minute of her time. And 
the whole city system upon its pedagogical side swung 
about this woman as its first focus to get the children 
started. She made the programs, the courses of study, 
the rules for more than a thousand teachers. Under the 
rules of the city, the primary supervisor was the effective 
pedagogical superintendent. 

This primary city supervisor could no more avert the 
force of those rules than the Far West county school 



298 THE HEALTH OF THE TEACHER 

superintendent could turn aside the cold winds of winter 
that made her grateful for having a warm horse under 
her as she rode in the morning twilight. Therefore, after 
a year of life in the sanitarium, relieved a little by a trip 
with a nurse to Europe, she died, just as her predeces- 
sors had died, not of any real disease but of her " job." 

Had she shirked herself, she would have been removed 
by superior authorities. Had she been less amiable and 
obliging, she would have lost social favor and have been 
quietly pressed to resign. Perhaps, some person will yet 
be found for this position who has " iron health " and 
who will survive in it for twenty or thirty years ; but it is 
improbable. 

There was a case of a rural teacher whose isolated 
schoolhouse was upon a bare plain. In that state, eleven 
(n) per cent, of all the schoolhouses had no provisions 
for the toilet ; some of these schoolhouses, however, were 
in the woods or near farmhouses. This woman, being 
unable to take proper care of her bodily needs for eight 
hours daily, 8:30 A.M. to 4:30 P.M. developed dis- 
eases and died from them. 



THE COMPLETED ROUND OF LIFE 

Women teachers who intend to live out normal lives, 
who propose to die at seventy, not at twenty-five or even 
at fifty years, must bring themselves to face the present 
and the future in the light of the experiences of others. 
Consider completed lives. Consider the birth, develop- 
ment, maturity and end of one and another of the per- 
sons whom you have known and who have played their 
last cards. 

In most cases, success has been a function of intelli- 
gence, industry and character, not merely of industry 
and character. In most cases, failure has been a func- 



WINNING OLD AGE: SUMMARY 299 

tion of ignorance, laziness and characterlessness ; and ig- 
norance, unwillingness to face the facts of a definite situa- 
tion, over-confidence in being able to succeed where others 
have failed, has played an important part in the failure. 
This ignorance has been usually ignorance as to health; 
most of the failures of life have proven that in civiliza- 
tion one must learn from others how to live physically. 
The instincts alone will not show a man the way to health 
and strength in modern life, whether on the prairie, in the 
swamps, in the mountains, in villages, or towns, or cities. 
Not even when reinforced by the social traditions of fam- 
ily life and of the other groups that surround childhood 
are the instincts trustworthy guides. That notion is one 
of the exploded theories of human history. 

One of the baseless notions afflicting young teachers is 
this, that success as a student in school indicates an 
adequate hygienic preparation for success as a teacher in 
school. Truth is that the work on one side of the teach- 
er's desk differs radically from work on the other side. 

Another baseless idea is that the teacher who has got- 
ten along well enough in young manhood or womanhood 
perhaps for several years in a small town school can 
change to a city school in a different climate and at a later 
period of physical development and prosper physically us- 
ing the same regimen of life. The demands of the city 
upon health are very different from the demands of the 
village. With every added year to one's age, with every 
increase in duties that draw upon one's vitality, the one 
hope of continued health is a perpetually changing and 
improving hygienic regimen. Cut-and-dried rules will 
not suffice. Eternal vigilance is the price of health at 
least for all persons of mature years, their one way to 
reach hale and hearty old age, which is the crown of 
life and the glory of civilization. The laws of nature are 
not held in abeyance in respect to health; nor is if true 



300 THE HEALTH OF THE TEACHER 

that one who loses his physical life in service will save it. 

There are some very conscientious persons who com- 
pletely misconceive certain teachings styled by themselves 
Christian to the effect that good men and women can work 
indefinitely hard and yet stay well and live long. The 
Teacher whom they profess to quote and to imitate took 
both holidays and vacations frequently. There is not the 
slightest warrant from the record of His life of any act 
by Him for any zealots to impose upon American men 
and women teachers the physical regimen of ascetic 
monks in the Arabian desert. There are such zealots in 
our public and private schools and colleges who for 
themselves neglect the modern principles of personal and 
social hygiene and who teach others so both by example 
and by precept. 

There was a case of a city school superintendent not 
many years ago who in a public document sent to all his 
teachers denounced what he styled " coddling health " in 
the cases both of teachers and of pupils as a " serious pub- 
lic evil." The contrary is the truth. Care of the health 
of teachers as the condition precedent to the care of the 
health of all the people is an invaluable public good. 

There was a case of a man who spent many years of 
his life in teaching and the rest of it in preaching and in 
private tutoring. He lived to be ninety-seven years of 
age, and when past ninety years, occasionally occupied 
the pulpit of a large church acceptably. Up to ninety- 
five years of age, he continued to be a diligent student of 
Latin and of history. At eighty-eight years of age, he 
was run over by a train, losing a leg and suffering other 
injuries. At several times in his life, he had to pass 
through serious troubles, yet he maintained his health 
notwithstanding. 

This was no mere case of exceptional vitality by inheri- 



WINNING OLD AGE: SUMMARY 301 

tance. He won and kept this health. He was physically 
stronger at fifty years of age than at twenty ; and at sev- 
enty he was a man of extraordinary daily efficiency in 
work. Until he was eighty, no one thought of him as 
old and getting ready to step off scene. How did he gain 
and keep his health? Very much in the ways described 
in this book. Even at ninety years of age, he took daily 
one-half hour of exercise with dumb-bells; and though 
minus one leg, he stumped about in the open air not less 
than one hour every day, rain or shine or snow, indiffer- 
ent to the storms even of winter. He gave time and 
thought to being well and strong. His largest accomplish- 
ment in life was at an age much later than most men and 
women die. In consequence of his long life, he was able 
to render to the world all the service that was really in 
him. He used to say that what success he had was due 
to his intention to live out the whole of his possible life 
until old age should defeat him. 

Perhaps American school teachers will be able to render 
a far greater service to this nation when we have all 
learned not to take our cue from such as live the char- 
acteristically short life of most teachers but from the men 
and women who have met and overmatched the real diffi- 
culties of teaching by obeying the principles of a rational 
and self-controlled personal health regimen. 

The founder of all modern science was Aristotle, the 
Greek teacher. What he said in effect for personal hy- 
giene then is as true now as it was two thousand years 
ago, that the way to health is by endurance, fortitude, 
deliberation, moral choice and ample thought as to the 
means for reaching ends. He censured as barbarian 
mere desire for any end, even for health, saying truly that 
the civilized are known by their profound concern as to 
the means for attaining their ends. 



302 THE HEALTH OF THE TEACHER 

The purpose of this book at every point throughout has 
been to suggest the means for winning and keeping 
health and strength, which are the physical sources of 
abundant life. Not only the teacher's own success but 
the progress and further development of the educational 
system depends upon every teacher having a health-in- 
telligence and a health-conscience such as will promote 
their happiness and good cheer in the daily work. Youth 
should be in the care of those whose lives are a pleasure 
to themselves; obviously joyous; never fretful; and de- 
lighting in opportunities to do more and more for young 
people. A healthy teacher is a daily inspiration to the 
pupils ; and a helpful memory for all later years. 

More than one school staff and more than one college 
faculty might profit by taking as its line of march for a 
year, " Quit you like men and be strong." 

The United States Bureau of Education has promul- 
gated a new motto for students and teachers alike ; let 
us follow it one and all, 

HEALTH STRENGTH JOY 



INDEX 



Adenoids 65, 233. 

Adolescence 44, 208. 

Adrenal glands 21, 22, 27, 42, 

82, 132, 232. 
Aeration 129, 146, 187, 189, 191, 

199. 

Ages 33, 48, 171, 189. 
Albumin 167. 
Alcoholic stimulants Chapter 

XXI. See Narcotics. 127, 

164. 
Alimentary canal 40, 62, 65, 

125, 143, 148, 155, 158, 219. 
Amusements 97, 99 et seq., 

Chap. XXXIV. 
Anemia 40 et seq., 200, 217. 
Anesthesia 265. 
Anthropometry 39, 79. 
Appetite 47, 62, 76, 152, 159. 
Arteriosclerosis 173. 
Autointoxication 27, 71, 155. 
Autopsy no, 195. 
Avocation 102, 260. See Home 

occupation. 
Awaking 140. 

Ball games 175. 

Bathing 67, 73, no, 116, 143, 

228, 241, 250, 254, Chap. 

XXIV. 

Bathroom 185, 276. 
Bed 140. clothing 129, 191, 

279. room 141, 279. 
Belts 194, 195. 
Bile 131. See Liver. 
Biochemistry 24, 29. 
Birth rate 271. 

Bladder 215. See Urination. 
Blood 16, 25, 94, 131, I99- 

heat 29. poisoning 251. 

pressure 32, 171, 172, 200. 



Body coefficient 32, 50, 56, 80, 

82, 86, 92, 112, 142, 176, 237, 

297. 
Bowels 44, 46, 73, 171, 215. 

See Evacuation. 
Brain 16, 68, 82, 99, 142, 255, 

266. 

Bread 156, 157, 160, 163. 
Breakdown 54, 62, Chap. VI, 

155, 277, 297. 
Breathing 178, 184, 105. See 

Aeration, Lungs. 
Bridges for teeth, 58, 218. 
Broken arch of foot, 248. 

Calculi 71, 255. 
Calisthenics 56, 143, 178. 
Calories 63, 147 et seq., 163, 

168. 

Cancer 206, 241, 242, 262. 
Candy 143. 

Cells 15, 25, 99, 151, 241. 
Cephalic index 38, 39. 
Cereals 22, 148, 153. 
Chemistry 148, 158. 
Children 30, diseases of, 

116, 147. 
Chorea 62. 
Climate 62, Chap. XIII, no, 

1 88, 268, 272, 274, 299. 
Coffee 76, 132, 141, Chap, 

XXII. See Narcotics. 
Common sense 19, 53, 73, 101. 

286. 
Classroom 196. See School 

architecture. 

Clothing Chap. XXV, 58, 68. 
Constipation 45, 73. 
Cookery see Diet. 
Colds Chap. VII, 94, 128. 
Colors 196, 197. 



303 



304 



INDEX 



Coma 71, 149. 
Corns 250 et seq. 
Corsets 194, 195. 
Cosmetics 239. 
Courtship 47, 147. 

Daily program 64, 66, 89, 93, 

99, 108, 112, 140, 183. 
Dandruff 50, 242, 245, 
Death 31, 271. 
Depilation 247. 
Diabetes 195. 
Diagnosis 3, Chap. Ill, 42, 48, 

59, 112, 133, 142, 238. 
Diarrhea 73. 
Diathesis, 43, 69. 
Diet 44, 46, 66, 72, 80, 97, 132, 

Chap. XXI. 

Digestion Chap. V, 158. 
Diphtheria 33. 
Diseases 44, 76, 116, 145, 174, 

194, 200, 239, 262, 270. 
Disinfecting 115. 
Dreams 100, 286. 
Drinks Chap. XXI. 
Ductless glands 20 et seq., 45, 

82. See Adrenal, Pituitary, 

Thyroid. 

Ear 32, Chap. XXIX. 
Eating 62, 87, Chap. XIX. 
Eczema 186, 240, 242. 
Eggs 159. 

Emotions 21, 23, 144, 293. 
Epidemics 71, Chap. XV. 
Esophoria 62, 223, 225. 
Excretion 16, 71, 215, 216. 
Exercise 58, 60. Chap. XXIII, 

239- 

Exophona 223. 

Evacuation see Bowels, Excre- 
tion, Kidneys, Bladder, Uri- 
nation. 

Eye 32, 40, 62, Chap. XXVIII, 
270. 

Fats 67, 150. 



Fears Chap. XIII, 200, 212, 
295- 

Feeble-minded 122. See Mo- 
ron, Hypermoron. 

Feet 144, Chap. XXXIII. 

Fevers 33. 

Fish 160. 

Foods 161 et seq. 

Footwear 188. See Shoes. 

Fruits 151, 155, 159, 160. 

Functions 54, 142, 282, 298. 

Fur coats 192. 



Gall bladder 132. 
Games 100, 170, 175, 259. 
Germ plasm 18. 
Germs 17. 

Glasses for eyes 222. 
Goitre 21, 94. 
Gymnasium 179, 181. 

Habits 44, 97, 137. 
Hair Chap. XXXII. 
Habitat Chap. XXXVI, 296. 
Headache 27, 32, 39, 55, 62, 114, 

194, 224. 

Health 26, 27. control 137'. 
Heating 141, 277. 
Heart 141, 173, 176. See 

Pulse. 

Heightened consciousness 143. 
Heredity 34, 42, 86, 92, 205. 
Holidays 102. See Vacations. 
Home life Chaps. XII, XXX- 

VI. occupation 180, 260 et 

seq. rearing Chap. IX. 
Horseback riding 176, 291. 
Housework 169. See Home. 
Hosiery 194, 249, 251. 
Humidity 189, 277. See 

Weather. 
Hypermoron 63, 93, 122, 126, 

224. 
Hydrotherapy 144, 185, 194, 

224. See Water. 
Hypertrophy 65, 166, 195, 264. 



INDEX 



305 



Ice cream 153, 235. 
Ideomotor temperament 40 et 

seq. 

Immunity 118. 

Indefatigabiiity 127, 289, 300. 
Indigestion 55, 155. 
Infection 221, 227, 240, 243, 

270. 

Insalivation 158, 166. 
Insanity Chap. XI, 124, 145. 
Insomnia 76, 80, 139, 141, 190, 

205. See Sleep. 
Instincts 21 et seq., 47, Chap. 

XIII, 132, 1 66, 232, 283, 299- 
Invalidism 26, 44, 45, 61, 86, 

142, 170, 187, 198, 220, 257, 

292. 

Kidneys 67, 71, 82, 106, 252. 
Kindergarten 115. 
Kinesthesia 27, 181. 

Legumes 160. 

Life 31. See Germ plasm. 

Lime 166. 

Liver 23, 24, 31, 67, 71, 142, 

149 et seq., 195. 
Locomotivity 27, 53. 
Lungs 52, Chap. VII, 94, 106, 

178. 
Lymphatics 46, 52. 

Malnutrition 33. 
Manicuring 239, 240, 242. 
Marriage 90, 180, 200 et seq., 

271. 

Married women 41, 180, 212. 
Massage 71, 224, 232. 
Maternal instinct 40, 43, 44. 
Meals 152. 
Meat 23, 67, 150, 157, 161 et 

seq. 

Medicine Chap. XXXV. 
Melancholia 33. 
Memory 115, 148. 
Men 50, 51, 172. 
Menopause Chap. VII. 



Menstruation 76, 87, 88, 200 et 

seq. 

Menus 148 et seq. 
Metabolism 24, 52, no, 189. 
Milk 22, 151, 160. 
Mind 24, 25. 
Modesty 296, 298. 
Moron 44, 93. 
Motivation 281. 
Muscles 42, 52, 54, 143, 170, 

178, 239. 
Muscular motor temperament 

40 et seq., 147. 
Music 125, 260. See Singing. 

Narcotics 23, 87, Chap. XII, 
108, 126, 139, 142, 167 et seq., 
Chap. XXII, 270, 291. 

Nature 19, 20, 47, no, 126, 138, 
166, 212, 222, 236. 

Nausea 62, 106, 224. 

Nervous system 16, 24, 62. 
troubles 34, 41, 47, Chap. VI, 
106, 139. 

Neuralgia 129, 140, 230. 

Neurasthenia 99, 124, 141. 

Neurosis 44, 205, 212. 

Norm 18, 19, 254. 

Nose 227, 228. 

Occupation 69, 96, 97, 107. 
Old age 33, 48, Chap. 

XXXVIII. 
Outdoors 22, 68, 81, 94, 100, 

139, 170, 176, 183, 254, 261. 
Overwork 62, Chaps. VIII, 

XII, XVII. 
Ovum 24. 

Pain 27, 57, 266. 
Paranoia 99. 
Pasteurization 164. 
Paternal instinct 48. 
Pathology 85, 90, 171, 215. 
Periodicities 22, 138, 245, Chap. 

XXVI. 
Peristalsis 158. 



306 



INDEX 



Perspiration 175, 189, 239, 254. 
Phagocytes 77. 
Physical culture Chap. IV. 
Physiological rest 19, 71, 171. 
Physiopsychology 32, 39, 47, 

142, 182, 201, 207, 214, 
Pituitary gland 24, 42, 82. 
Play 99 et seq., 294. See 

Amusement. 
Pneumonia Chap. VII, 78, 129, 

191. 

Posture Chap. IV, 196. 
Potatoes 156. 

Prophylaxis 117, 123, 220, 287. 
Protein 65, 67, 144, 148, 159. 
Psychosis 88, 166, 175, 209, 210, 

212. 

Puberty 44, 208. 
Pulse 46, 104, 171, 200. See 

Heart. 
Pyorrhea 68, 71, Chap. XXVII. 

Quiet 27, 126, 229, 274. See 
Rest. 

Races of men 19, 20, 30, 32, 34- 
40, 43-45, 49. 53, 61, 70, 75, 
78, 89, 90, 93, 97, 104, 107, 
in, 113, 115, 116, 120, 126, 
140, 147, 154, 157, 158, 171, 

192, 197, 201, 200-8, 237, 244, 
268, 271, 291, 297, 301. 

Reactions 54, 63. 
Referred pains 57. 
Relaxation Chap. XXXIV. 
Renewal 17. 
Rest 155, 231, 232, 257. 
Rheumatism 44. 
Rubber overshoes 192, 249, 
253. 

Sabbatical year 87. 
Salads 153. 
Salt 148, 158 et seq. 
Sanitarium 152, 221, 291. 
Sanitation 78, 112. Chap. 
XVIII, 186, 269. 



School architecture 130, 188, 

281, room Chap. XVIII, 

196. 

Sea foods 148, 163. 
Seasons 138, 203, 204. 
Sedentary temperament 26, 40 

et seq. 

Self-alienation 53, 287. 
Senility 58. See Old age. 
Sensorium 125. 
Sex 50 et seq., 87, Chap. XVI 

171, 207. 
Shingles 241. 

Shoes 57, 148, 177, 193, 249. 
Sinewy motor temperament 40, 

73 et seq. 
Singing 77, 233, 234, 260. See 

Music. 
Skin 187, 189, 194, Chap. 

XXXI 239. 
Sleep 26, 46, 66, 72, 76, 80, 

Chap. XX, 174, 202, 230, 279. 
Soap 186, 218, 239. 
Somatology 24, 36, 38. 
Somesthesia 16, Chap. II, 44, 

46, 73, 107, 131, 165, 302. 
Sperm 24. 
Spinal curvature Chap. IV, 

182, 211, 230. 
Starch 67. 
Static electricity 71. 
Stomach 87, 131, 154, 155. 
Sugar 22, 150, 163. 
Sunlight 197, 278. 
Supper 25, 149. 
Suprarenal glands, see Adrenal 

glands. 
Surgery 69, 114, 242, Chap. 

XXXV, 266. 
Surplus nervous energy 235, 

285. 

Swimming 144, 175, 228. 
Symptoms 21, 33, 78, 145. See 

Chap. III. 

Teeth 17, 40, 58, 67, Chap. 
XXVII. 



INDEX 



307 



Temperaments 26, 40, 69, 81, 
133, 139, 145, 188, See Ideo- 
motor, Muscular, Sinewy, 
Vital, Sedentary, Maternal, 
Instincts. 

Temperature, body 28, 29, 63, 
191, room 188, 238. 

Thermometer 32. 

Therapy 108, 127, 224, 240. 

Thought 25, 53, 202, 207, 289. 

Throat 52, 118, Chap. XXX. 

Thyroid gland 21, 94, 232. 

Tonsils 68, 264. 

Toxemia 16, 71. 

Traits 18, 34, 37, 39, 63. See 
Temperaments. 

Tumors 85. 

Typhoid fever 25, 33, 269, 276, 
282. 

Tuberculosis 56, Chaps. VII, 
XII, 112, 237. 

Underwear Chap. XIII, 188, 
ioo. 

Uric acid 67, 149, 233. 

Urination 215, 216. See Kid- 
neys. 

Vacation 124, 183, 204. 
Vegetables 157. 



Venereal disease 123, 240. 
Ventilation 129, 146, 186. See 

Aeration. 

Viscera 52, 148, 173. 
Vital corpulent temperament 

36, 40 et seq., 84, 131. 
Vital reserve 55, 169, 235. 
Vital statistics 204, 268. 
Vitamens 151. 
Voice Chap. XXX. 



Wakefulness 142. 

Walking 57, 174, 177, 183, 258. 

Water 22, 144, Chap. XXII, 

178, 218, 225, 228, 234, 238, 

240, 250, 273. to drink, 167. 
Weather 76, Chap. XIII, 138, 

190, 199, 272, 274, 284. 
Women 30, 41, 50, 51, 53, 88, 

172, 174, 193. 
Woolens 188, 192, 279. 
Worry 26, 63, 121, 245, 256, 

Chap. XXXVII. 
Wounds 17, 1 8, 25. 

X-rays 59, 219. 

Youth 33, 48, 180, 208, 212, 
292, 299. 



DANGER SIGNALS FOR TEACHERS 

By 
DR. A. E. WINSHIP 

Editor, "Journal of Eduatif*" 

THIS timely, inspiring book will make a strong ap- 
peal to all teachers. It was written to help them meet 
the new conditions which have arisen in the profession 
of teaching; it points the way to success. 

Dr. Winship has been prominent in the educational 
world for a third of a century and every teacher knows 
that whatever he says has great interest for every per- 
son concerned with education. 

Price, $1.25 
FORBES & COMPANY, CHICAGO 



o 



CO 

to 
in 
ui 



u: 

*! 

o 



r*; 



University of Toronto 
Library 



DO NOT 

REMOVE 

THE 

CARD 

FROM 

THIS 

POCKET 




Acme Library Card Pocket 

Under Pat. "Ref. Index File" 
Made by LIBRARY BUREAU 



