LIBRARY OF THE 
NEW YORK STATE COLLEGE 
OF HOME ECONOMICS 
CORNELL UNIVERSITY 
ITHACA, NEW YORK 




RETURN TO 
ALBERT R. MANN LIBRARY 

ITHACA, N. Y. 




Cornell University 
Library 



The original of tliis book is in 
tlie Cornell University Library. 

There are no known copyright restrictions in 
the United States on the use of the text. 



http://www.archive.org/details/cu31924003587965 



PRACTICAL COOKING AND SERVING 




DINNER TABLE, FIRST COURSE. (Ses pages 642 and 643.) 




LUNCHEON TABLE, CENTREPIECE OF SWEET PEAS. 



PRACTICAL COOKING 
AND SERVING 



A COMPLETE MANUAL OF HOW TO 
SELECT, PREPARE, AND SERVE FOOD 



BY 



JANET McKENZIE HILL 

EDITOR OF "the BOSTON COOKING SCHOOL MAGAZINE* 

AUTHOR OF "salads, SANDWICHES, AND 

CHAFING-DISH DAINTIES" 



WITH MANY ILLUSTRATIONS 




Garden City New York 

DOUBLEDAY, PAGE & COMPANY 

1919 



Copyright, 1902, 1912, by 

DOUBLEDAY, PaGE & COMPANY 

All rights reserved, including that of 

translation into foreign languages, 

including the Scandinavian 



"Certainly," replied the oracle, "study the art of pleasing by dress and 
manner as long as you are of an age to interest us; and, above all, let all women, 
pretty and plain, married and single, study the art of cookery. If you are an 
artist in the kitchen, you will always be esteemed. Only be careful, in study- 
ing both arts, never to forget the great truth that dinner precedes blandishments, 
and not blandishments dinner." 

Elizabeth and Her German Garden 

I KEGARD the discovery of a dish a far more interesting event than the dis- 
covery of a star, for we have already stars enough, but we can never have too 
many dishes; and I shall not regard the sciences as sufficiently honored or 
adequately repiesented among us until I see a cook in the first class of the 
[French] Institute. 

HotisiON DE Penesey (o learned French judge). 



PREFACE 

Tms book is designed to be something more than a compilation 
of recipes — though recipes make up a large portion of its con- 
tents. Cookery is a necessary art, and an art that is worthy the 
attention of the most intelligent and cultivated women of the land. 
How few women realize that the warp and woof of our muscular 
and nervous systems are woven out of the food we eat, or that food 
even more than environment makes or mars the individual. 

In the arrangement of subject matter into chapters, the time- 
honored divisions into bread, soups, eggs, fish, etc., have been 
retained, though this plan is not strictly scientific. In the sec- 
ondary grouping of topics in the various chapters, an attempt has 
been made, as far as possible, to classify the matter in a systematic 
and scientific manner. The relation between the various sub- 
divisions, and their interdependence not only upon each other, 
but also upon divisions made in other parts of the volume, is shown. 
In this and other respects we claim that the book is a step in ad- 
vance on all preceding works on cookery — from which we hereby 
acknowledge we have drawn inspiration and aid. 

The remark has been made recently by an authority on the 
subject that "a good cook does not need recipes." ThK is, per- 
haps, in accordance with the idea that cooks, like poets, are bom 
and not made. But while a grain of truth may lie hidden in this 
statement, still there is room for misunderstanding and a well- 
founded difference of opinion. In the science and art of cookery, 
we are dealing with materials that cannot bcs^d to have a fixed 
value; yet the effects of heat and moisture, atVa,mng degrees of 
temperature, and the several combinations neceksMy to secure 
definite results imder ordinary circumstances, mayvJjecome as 
thoroughly fixed in mind as the multiplication table or the declen- 
sion of noims. A cook with this fundamental knowledge under- 
stands the relation between a sauce thickened with roux, a custard 
souflSe, an ice cream thickened with starchy material, and many 
an entree. She knows the probable value, or jellying quality, of 
a certain quantity of starch or gelatine, and with no fear of failure 

vii 



viii PREFACE 

she adds whipped white of egg, or cream, to the remnants of a fruit 
jelly to produce, respectively, a charlotte or a Bavarian cream, and 
thus formulates recipes to make use of the materials she has on 
hand. 

But while the majority of ^girls in America become proficient in 
mathematics before the age of fifteen, as yet it is only the favored 
few who receive any systematic training in the principles of cookery, 
and hence there still seems to be a demand for reliable formulas in 
accordance with which food materials may be successfully com- 
bined. Then, again, progress is made in cookery as in other arts 
and what is considered a good method of procedure to-day may be 
much improved upon to-morrow. For these and other excellent 
reasons we have endeavored to note and to illustrate the latest 
and best in manipulation and appliance that pertaineth to the 
culinary art. 

Recipes are given for simple everyday dishes and also for such 
as are in demand on the most formal occasions. To insure ac- 
curacy, it is to be noted that in all recipes where flour is used, im- 
less otherwise stated, the flour is measured after sifting once. When 
flour is measured by cups, the cup is filled with a spoon, and a level 
cupful is meant. A tablespooiiful or a teaspoonful of any des- 
ignated material is a level spoonful of such material. 

The recipes are of dishes prepared by the author diuing an 
experience of twenty years in housekeeping; these are supple- 
niented by dishes prepared to illustrate demonstrations in cookery 
given before classes of housekeepers in New England, the Middle 
West and the South. 

A few formulas are favorite recipes donated by cooking teachers, 
cooks and housekeepers of note in various sections of the country. 
A part of these have been tried by the author and found excellent; 
others have not been so tested, but in all cases the name accom- 
panying the recipe is guaranty of the quality of the dish. Many 
of these recipes appear now for the first time in print; others have 
been published in the Boston Cooking School Magazine, and still 
others have accompanied illustrations by the author in The Ladies' 
Home Journal. As the main idea in The Journal was pictorial 
rather than literary, the details of conibination were not dwelt 
upon in that publication; these are here, together with the illus- 
trations, now made complete. 

Recognizing the fact that names were originally ^ven com- 
binations for specific reasons, which still have meaning to the 
initiated, an attempt has been made to preserve the original names 



PREFACE ix 

of (lishes, and to avoid designating at random other combinations, 
which are f owided upon the original or derivative idea. 

In respect to the illustrations, the fact that a dish presents 
an attractive appearance does not argue necessarily that it is ex- 
pensive. A simple mold of pink rhubarb jelly, surrounded with 
whipped cream, presents an elegant or showy appearance, yet with 
rhubarb at two cents per pound and sugar at six the (Ush could 
not be considered too elaborate or expensive for occasional use. 
The difference in cost of materials and time expended is not so 
great that it should be considered burdensome to present a dish 
finished with a sprig of parsley, a curl of bacon, one or two toast 
points, or, occasionally, as in the case of a sweet, with half a cup of 
whipped cream. If the habit of making all dishes attractive be 
once acquired, the extra time will not be noted or the effort given 
a thought. 

Of the illustrations, some are given to make plain the different 
processes in cooking, or to show the utensils used in the several 
operations. Others are given as a guide in serving — i. e., to show 
how the finished dish should appear. 

Dainty serving is intimately connected with dainty cooking. In 
fact, it is the climax of the art of cookery. Though hints on serv- 
ing will be found scattered throughout the volume, a special chapter 
is devoted to garnishing and serving, and another to the art of 
hospitality and the etiquette of entertaining. 

Taking into consideration the present large and rapidly increas- 
ing number of women who are interested in providing a well- 
balanced dietary for their families, the chemical composition of the 
various food products, as given in the bulletin prepared by Pro- 
fessor Atwater for the United States Department of Agriculture, 
has been presented at the head of the respective chapters. To 
follow the laboratory standards accurately, as these are given for 
different classes and ages of individuals, calls for more time and 
apphances than the average housekeeper has at her command. 
Indeed, this will not be attempted in daily life, except occasionally, 
unless by specialists; nor is this in any sense a necessity. But a 
study of these tables, in connection with the matter in Chapter I, 
Part I, and in Chapters II and IV, in Part III, will enable the 
thoughtful housekeeper, in planning her weekly bills of fare, to 
secure, approximately, the right proportions of the various food 
principles, or, if she wills to do so, as accurately as in the work of 
the specialist. 

But we believe that a woman's duty does not end in the selection 



X PREFACE 

of food containing the proper proportions of the various food prin- 
ciples. What does it aveul to select wisely if in cooking we lose 
the nutritive value originally found in the product, or if, through 
monotony in manner of preparation, the food fail to be assimilated? 
That tiie careful use of this book may enable the thoughtful 
mistress or maid to take the most common and inexpensive food 
products and so prepare them as to bring out and conserve their 
latent and nutritive qualities of juiciness and flavor, and at the same 
time render them pleasing to the eye and acceptable to the palate, 
is the earnest desire of the author. 



CONTENTS 

PART I 

"Tutor'd in the rudiments." 

I will tell you the beginning, and if it please your ladyships you may see 
the end. — As You Like It, i, 2. 

CHAPTER PAGE 

I. Definition of Food. Object in Cooking Food. The Kitchen 

Raxige. Food Principles i 

II. Cooking of Starch and Albumen 6 

HI. Elementary Processes of Cooking 10 

IV. Processes and Terms used in Cooking 18 

V. Cook's Time Table. Tables of Proportions, Weights and 

Measures 33 

PART U 

If a man or a woman has not the soul of a cook, the most minute recipe 
will only end in failure. — Kettner, 

I. Beverages 39 

II. Eggs SS 

m. Fish and Its Cookery. Frogs and Terrapin .... 73 

IV. Beef, Mutton, Veal, Lamb, Pork in 

V. Poultry and Game < 148 

VI. Soups and Soup Making 170 

Vn. Sauces i99 

Vin. Complex Meat and Fish Dishes: Entries, R^chaufffe, etc. . 221 

IX. Vegetables and Their Cookery 258 

X. Com Plants used as Breakfast Food and Vegetables . 296 

XI. Chafing Dish Cookery and Services ... . 307 

Xn. Salads, Sandwiches and Hors d'CEuvres . • 3^7 

XIII. Cheese and What Can be Done With It . -343 

XIV. Batters and Doughs . . ... 35": 
XV. Bread and Bread Making . . . . . . 3S8 

XVI. Cake and Cake Making 387 

zi 



jrii CONTENTS 

CHAPTER PAGE 

I XVn. Cake Icings and Decorations 422 

XVIII. Pastry and Pies 43S 

XIX. Puddings and Dessert Dishes 4S4 

i XX. Cold Dessert Dislies 4S9 

i XXI. Hot Puddings, etc 488 

XXII. Sweet Sauces 505 

XXin. Fruit, Fresh and Cooked, for Immediate Use . . .514 

XXIV. The Preservation of Fruit 534 

XXV. Frozen Desserts SS^ 

XXVI. Boiling Sugar. Candy Making 581 

XXVII. Food for the Sick and Convalescent 594 

PART III 



The pleasure of the table is peculiar to the human species; it supposes 
antecedent attention to the preparation of the repast. 

Haywaed. 



I. Marketing. Care of Food and Cooking Utensils 

n. Office of Food in the Body . 

III. Referring to a Well-balanced Menu or Dietary 

IV. The Physiology of Digestion 

V. Suggestions on Garnishing and Serving 

VI. Hospitality and the Etiquette of Entertaining 

VII. Menus for Occasions 



609 
616 
619 
62s 
630 
63s 
657 



LIST OF ILLUSTRATIONS 

FACING PAGE 

Alaska, Baked j... ,.v. . . . 621 

Apple Charlotte 596 

Apples, Duchess Style ' 596 

Apple with Junket, etc 652 

Apples with Sauce, Blushing . 596 

Asparagus Salad in Jelly 276 

Banana Shortcake 469 

Bavarian Cream, Apricot with Snow Eggs 548 

Bavarian Cream, Pineapple 548 

Bavarian Cream with Prunes, Rice 549 

Beans, Boston Baked 164 

Beans, Boston Baked, Ready for Baking 164 

Beef, Fillet of. Larded 12 

Beef, Cannelon of, with Macaroni 140 

Beef Cutlets, Ragout of Macaroni with 205 

Beef au Gratin, Creamed Corned 236 

Beef, Rib Roast of 140 

Beefsteak, Sirloin 141 

Biscuit, Oatmeal 364 

Blackberry Sponge 597 

Bonbons 653 

Boned and Stuffed Fowl, Larded 13 

Bread and Moulds, Brown 397 

Bread, Entire Wheat 397 

Bread Making, Utensils for 397 

Bread with Raisins, Boston Brown 405 

Breadstick Pan and Breadsticks 364 

Brioche: Process of Shaping into Coffee Rolls 404 

Buns, Hot Cross 365 

Cabbage Salad 301 

Cabinet Pudding with Jelly, Hot 556 

Cake, Birthday, with Candles 421 

Cake, Birthday, for Twenty-fifth Anniversary 429 

Cake Covered with Almond Icing 428 



av PRACTICAL COOKING AND SERVING] 

TACmO PAGE 

Cake Decorated with Fruit and Lady Fingers 421 

Cake, Hollow Sponge with Whipped Cream 421 

Cake Making, Utensils for 460 

Cake, Marshmallow Frosting and Red Candies .... 468 

Cake, Poinsettia 420 

Cake, Sponge with Potato Flour 461 

Cake, with Holly Leaves Cut from Citron and Red Candies 484 

Cake, with Nuts on Frosting 485 

Cake Tins 460 

Cakes, Mocha 420 

Cakes, Small Chocolate, Marshmallow Frosting .... 468 

Casserole, French i73 

Celery with Cheese au Gratin 357 

Celery and Orange Salad 301 

Charlotte Moulds and Double Moulding 492 

Charlotte Russe, Individual Strawberry 549 

Charlotte Russe with Salpicon of Fruit 549 

Chaudfroid of Mutton Chops 268 

Chaudfroid of Tongue with Aspic Jelly 268 

Cheese Balls 356 

Cheese Cakes with Cherries 356 

Cheese Croquettes with Paper Aigrettes 357 

Cheese Service, Suggestions for 356 

Cheese Straws and Rings 356 

Cherries with Crusts 613 

Chicken Aspic, Timbales of Ham in 269 

Chicken Cutlets, Cress Salad and Mayonnaise . ... . 269 

Chicken Cutlets, Parker House Style 236 

Chicken Dressed for Broiling 172 

Chicken Forcemeat with Quenelles, Shells of 205 

Chicken Glace with Cress Salad, Cream of 269 

Chicken, Pressed 236 

Chicken Salad in Rolls 293 

Chicken Soup with Breadsticks 652 

Chicken, Timbales 205 

Chops, Rib, Frenched, Loin 141 

Chops with Spinach, Broiled Mutton 149 

Chopper, Enterprise 204 

Cleaver and Small Saw for Household Use 108 

Cocoa Frappe, Whipped Cream 629 

Coflfee Rolls from. Brioche 461 



LIST OF ILLUSTRATIONS xv 

FACUtC MOB 

Com Custard with Broiled Tomatoes . . . . . . .277 

Coup6, Thais 621 

Cranberry Pie 525 

Cream Beaten Solid with Egg Beater 44 

Cream, Ice, in Muskmelon 628 

Cream, Whip Chum with Frothed 44 

Cress and Egg Salad 293 

Croquettes, Egg or Easter 53 

Croquettes, Shaping 13 

Crown of Lamb, Roast 141 

Cucumber Salad, Muiute Pearl Onions .... 341 

Custards Renversee, Individual ... 533 

Desserts, Materials for ... . ...... 492 

Devil's Food Cake .... 484 

Double Boiler 13 

Doughnuts, Yeast .... 484 

Dunlap Beater, for Whipping Cream 45 

Easter Pudding 532 

Eggs, Stuffed, for Picnics 53 

Eggs, Poached, withSpinach 53 

Egg, Poached, with Anchovy Paste 52 

Egg, Shirred, in Cocotte 52 

Egg, Shirred, in China Case 52 

Eggs Shirred with Mashed Potato 52 

Egg, Souffled 652 

Egg Salad Sandwiches 292 

Egg and Tomato Jelly Salad 276 

Eggs, Truffled, a h, Muscovite 333 

Eggs, Utensils for Beating 44 

Endive, French 300 

Endive Salad 301 

Fillet of Flounder Served 'm Silver Casserole 68 

Fillets of Flounder with Green Peas 85 

Finger Biscuit with Pistachio Nuts 421 

Fish a la Cr&ne in Paper Cases 100 

Fish Planked with Onions, String Beans and Asparagus . loi 

Fondant Making 653 

Fowl, Steamed, on Mound of Rice with Mushrooms . . . 173 

Fruit Cup 620 

Gateau St. Emilion, Mocha Frosting 468 

Gnocchi a la Romaine 3S7 



xvx PRACTICAL COOKING AND SERVING 

rACIRC PAGE 

Haddock, Stuffed and Baked loo 

Halibut, Baked, Garnish of Oyster Croquettes .... 68 

Halibut, Boiled, with Potato Balls 69 

Halibut Steaks Baked with Oysters 100 

Halibut, Turbans of, with Potato Balls 68 

Ham Baked with Cider. Cold Boiled, Sliced 165 

Ham Croutons 164 

Hors d'CEuvres, Materials for 332 

Lace Papers for Sweet Dishes 492 

Lemon Fanchonettes 493 

Lemon Queens 460 

Lobster Cutlets 109 

Lobster Sandwiches 332 

Macaroni in Cheese Shell, Creamed 277 

Macaroon Souffle 557 

Macedoine of Fruit and Nuts 533 

Measuring Cup 13 

Meringues, Mushroom 469 

Meringues with Cream and Strawberries 493 

Moulds for Entrees and Sweets 204 

Mould, Individual Basket 612 

Moulds, Melon, Brick and Bombe 612 

Moulds, Strawberry 612 

Muffins, English, in Different Stages of Preparation . . . 396 

Muffins, Twin Mountain 405 

Muffins and Waffles with Utensils 405 

Mushroom Cocktail, Fresh 333 

Mushrooms Cooked Under Glass 277 

Omelet with Macaroni and Tomato Sauce 52 

Orange Sections in Orange JeUy 533 

Orange Sherbet in Orange Skins 612 

Oranges, Ways to Serve 588 

OtheUos 421 

Oysters in Green Peppers, Creamed 332 

Oyster Salad in Ice Bowl 340 

Partridge Roast, Bread Sauce 148 

Pastry Bag and Tubes 44 

Pastry Baked on Inverted Tin 524 

Pastry, Utensils for Making 524 

Patty Cutter, French Fluted 524 

Patties Filled with Asparagus Tips 525 



LIST OF ILLUSTRATIONS xvii 

FACING FACE 

Peach Mousse 628 

Peach and Rice Meringue 613 

Peadies, P)T:amid of 597 

Pears with Rice, Compote of, Stuffed 597 

Pineapple Bavaroise, Pompadour Style 532 

Pineapple Omelet 556 

Pineapple and Strawberries in Pineapple Shell .... 589 

Plum Pudding a la David Harum 557 

Potatoes, Baked, in the Half Shell 237 

Potato Garnishes 237 

Pumpkin Pie ... 493 

Puree Sieve and Pestle 204 

Quick-cut Chopping Knife 204 

Raspberries with Rice Croquettes 613 

Rings, Bismarck 365 

Saddle of Mutton, Roasted 149 

Salad, Bird's Nest 293 

Sahnon, Boiled, Potato Balls and Cress 85 

Salmon Salad 276 

Salpicon of Fniit in Grape Fruit Basket 5^9 

Sardines with Spinach and Eggs 109 

Sauces, Utensils for Making 13 

Sausage with Apple Sauce 165 

Savarin . 460 

Saw, Small, and Cleaver for Household Use 108 

Scallop Salad 340 

Scandinavian Rosettes, Frying of 557 

Shad, Planked 85 

Shad, Planked, Supreme 84 

Shad Roe and Cucumber Salad 340 

Spatula, Perforated Spoon, etc 237 

Springerlie and SpringerKe Mould 428 

Strawberry Bombe Glace 620 

Strawberry Cannelon Glace 629 

Strawberry Charlotte Glace 612 

Strawberry Shortcake 556 

Strawberry Souffle, Frappe 629 

Strawberry Sponge 532 

Strawberry Vol-au-Vent 493 

"Strawberries, Sugar and Cream" 588 

Swedish Rolls ,,,,,,,. 364 



xviii PRACTICAL COOKING AND SERVING 

'..''~^*v"r5-'f-»~^ ,^- FACING PAGB 

Swedish Tea Ring, Ready to Serve . . ," . '. . . 365 

Swedish Timbale Iron 524 

Sweetbreads, Baked, Touraine Style 149 

Syrup Gauge in Test Tube of Syrup 628 

Table, Dinner, first course FronHspiece 

Table, Luncheon, Centrepiece of Sweet Peas . . Frontispiece 

Tongue Moulded in Aspic Jelly 268 

Turkey Roast Garnished with Sausage and Celery . . . 173 

Turkqr Trussed for Roasting, Back of 172 

Turkey Trussed for Roasting, Showing Tendons .... 172 

Turnip Salad, Stuffed 341 

Veal Loaf Ready for Baking 140 

Vol-au-Vent Baked Over a Form 525 

Watermelon in Wedge-shaped Slices 589 

Wreaths, Christmas 461 



PRACTICAL COOKING AND SERVING 



PRACTICAL COOKING AND 
SERVING 



PART I 

CHAPTER I 

Definition of Food. Object in Cooking Food. 
The Kitchen Range. Food Principles. 

" Three things are essential to life : air, water and food; and the order in whidi 
these are named expresses their relative importance to life."— Hoy. 

WiTHOHT air we suffocate at once, without water we may live 
from two to seven days, and without food from seven to forty days. 
Oftentimes the term "food" is made to include both air and water, 
but a true food by its oxidation in the body liberates force and 
produces heat; air and water are in reality simply a means to this 
end, but of themselves undergo no chemical alteration in digestion, 
liberate no force and produce no heat. Water acts as a solvent 
and a carrier of nutritive and waste materials, and by its evapora- 
tion on the surface of the body controls the heat produced by the 
oxidation of true food. Some knowledge of the part that both air 
and water play in the economy of nature is essential to a proper 
understanding of the subject of food, and the study of diemistry 
should precede and accompany the study of cookery. In short, 
there is scarcely any branch of learning from which the art of 
cookery does not demand tribute. 

Food is that (liquid or solid) which satisfies hunger and replaces the solid 
waste of the' body. — ^Hoy. 

Water is that which slakes thirst and replaces the fluid loss of the body. 
— Hoy. 



2 PRACTICAL COOKING AND SERVING 

Food, in order to replace the waste of the body, needs contain 
such elements, in combination, as are found in the body substance; 
these complex substances are found in the material world around 
us. There are various ways in which changes in the natural 
condition of these material substances may be brought about so 
as to make them better adapted to satisfy himger and replace 
waste. The principal of these is by cooking. In cooking we 
apply heat and often moisture to food products in such manner 
that they are made more digestible (soluble and diffusible) either 
directly, as when starch is changed to dextrine, or tough and 
fibrous substances are softened and thus rendered easily divisible; 
or, indirectly, through the development of new and pleasing odors 
and flavors that excite the flow of the digestive fluids. Cooking 
also sterilizes food. 

THE KITCHEN RANGE 

Fire is one of the first essentials in cooking food. Fire for 
this purpose is usually confined in a cooking stove or range. Out- 
side the modem accessories of warming oven, water tank, front 
or coil, the common cooking range consists of a rectangular iron 
box divided into three compartments, viz., fire-box, ash-box and 
oven. The fire-box is lined with fire-brick and is separated from 
the receptacle below, which holds a pan for waste products, by a 
grate. The oven occupies the rest of the box, and with the lids 
or covers on the top is the principal featiure of the range. Means 
are provided to convey hot air entirely around the oven before it 
enters the flue or chimney. The fire is regulated and controlled 
by dampers; these admit air to the burning fuel, check the strength 
of the draft (of air) and control the circiflation of heat about the 
oven. 

HOW TO BUILD A FIRE 

The ash-pan is empty; the flue about the oven dean — the ash- 
pan needs be emptied each day and the flue cleaned each month — 
the draft below the fire-box is open, the damper that opens or closes 
the flue is drawn, affording free draft to the chimney, and the covers 
over the fire-box are lifted. Everything being in readiness, the 
fire may be built. First put into tie fire-box a generous layer of 
diavings, or wisps of paper twisted in the middle so that they may 
lie loosely in the box; above these put in, crosswise, short pieces of 



BUILDING A FIRE 3 

soft wood that lights readily, and then, in the same way, pieces 
of hard wood that bums more slowly; above these put one or two 
shovelfuls of coal. Cover the top of the range, and apply a lighted 
match between the bars of the grate to the shavings or paper; when 
the wood is fairly ignited, add coal to fill the fire-box nearly even 
to the top of the bricks. The coal will settle down' as the kindling 
burns. The fire-box should not be kept more than three fourths 
full; much less coal even will do the work in a family of ordinary 
size. When the blue flame disappears, close the stove door, leav- 
ing the damper in the door open. Adjust the damper in flue to 
send the current of hot air round the oven, instead of directly up 
the chimney. To check the fire still further, close the damper in 
the door, and open check-draft above; this lets in a current of 
cold air above the burning coal, and thus gently diminishes the 
strength of the draft. To keep a steady fire, add a few pieces 
of coal, occasionally, as the top coals begin to glow. After 
coal has once become glowing red in color it begins to part 
with its strength. Keep in mind that air below a fire causes 
it to bum briskly; air above cools and deadens a fire; also the 
fact that most food is subjected to too much rather than too 
little heat. 

THE FIVE FOOD PRINCIPLES 

Now, there are in every food product certain compounds upon 
which its food value almost entirely depends, and there is danger 
that the full nutritive value of these may not be retained in the 
process of cooking. Then, too, we have become accustomed to 
combine, in cooking, materials that are widely different in chemical 
composition. All this tends to make the process of cookery very 
complex. As, for instance, in making an English cream, in which 
cornstarch, or flour, and eggs are used. Starchy substances are 
made more soluble (digestible) by long cooking at a moderate 
temperature, or by shorter cooking at a high temperature, while 
albumen is made less soluble by heat. If the eggs be add^ with 
the starch, one constituent of the cream will be sacrificed, and the 
chances are that it will be the most valuable of the two, including 
also the vegetable albumen of the vegetable compound. Hence, 
if cooking is to be conducted successfully, the composition of the 
product in hand must be accurately known, and the effects of the 
heat, at different temperatures, and of moisture, upon the various 
constituents must be clearly imderstood. 



4 PRACTICAL COOKING AND SERVING 

The several compounds that enter into the composition of our 
food products may be grouped under five heads, as follows: 



The Five Food 

Principles 
or Compounds. 



f Proteins or ( Albuminoids. 

Nitrogenous j 

Compounds. ' Gelatinoids. , ggj^jjug 

Carbohydrates. IcoUagen 

Fats. 

Mineral matter. 
I-Water. 



Relating to cookery, the distinction between albuminoids and 
gelatinoids is worthy of attention, in that the former are made 
less soluble by heat and the latter, of which gelatine and collagen 
are the most important, more soluble. 

WHERE THESE COMPOUNDS ARE FOUND 

Water is found in all kinds of food, but largely in fruits and 
vegetables; in cooking these the water, which has been lost by 
evaporation (as in dried beans, etc.), needs be restored. 

Under the head of mineral matter are grouped iron, sulphur, 
lime, potash, magnesia, chloride of sodiiun, etc. Some one or more 
of these are found in all natural products, especially in vegetables, 
milk and meat. When vegetables are cooked in water and the 
water is thrown away these, oftentimes the most valuable con- 
stituents present, and other soluble elements, are lost. 

Butter, cream, vegetable oils, and the fat of meat, visible and 
invisible, represent the fats. 

The carbohydrates are known principally as starch and sugar. 
Discarding the woody fibre, which envelops and forms the frame- 
work of vegetables and which is in reality a form of starch, starch 
is their most important constituent. 

The cereals contain from sixty to seventy per cent, of starch. It 
is also present in the leaves and stems of plants. In rice seventy- 
six pounds in one hundred are pure starch. 

Common sugar is a chief constituent of sugar-cane and a few 
other grasses; it is foimd also in the juices of some roots, as beet, 
and occasionally in the juices of trees; milk sugar is fotmd in the 
milk of cows and other mammalia and grape-sugar in ripened fruit. 

The nitrogenous food compounds, proteins, are the most impor- 
tant, because they are the only compounds that contain nitrogen. 



FOOD COMPOUNDS S 

Of these the albuminoids have precedence in point of value. White 
of egg, which is nearly pure albtunen, is the type of this group; 
to this same group belong the casein of milk, the musculin of animal 
flesh, the gluten of wheat and the legumin of peas, beans, and 
lentils. From bones, cartilage, and connective tissue, boiled in 
water, are set free nitrogenous compounds that form with the 
water a jelly-Uke mass. These are the gelatines. 

The chief constituent of connective tissues is collagen, which is 
soluble in hot water and yields gelatine. It is partly due to col- 
lagen that a steak puffs up while cooking, and this is the substance 
in the steak that is made tender by soakmg in vinegar; when meat 
is kept, bacterial action gives rise also to acid secretions that soften 
the collagen. 



CHAPTER II 
The Cooking of Starch and Albumen 

The nitrogenous and carbohydrate principles are the two with 
which in cooking we have most to do. Albumen and starch rep- 
resent these. An egg is almost pure albumen, while a potato is 
largely starch. When the conditions involved in the cooking of 
these two articles are well understood, a firm foundation upon 
which to build the future structure of cookery has been laid. 

THE COOKINQ OF STARCH 

If potatoes be pared and allowed to stand in cold water, some of 
the starch granules of the potato will settle to the bottom of the 
dish. These granules will remain to all outward appearance un- 
changed, even if they stand hours in the water. That is, starch 
is not soluble in cold water. Solubility and digestibility are prac- 
tically synonymous terms, for all solid food material needs to be- 
come soluble before it can pass through the walls of the digestive 
system and be assimilated. 

Prehistoric man was undoubtedly endowed with strong digestive 
powers, and was able, to some extent at least, to digest uncooked 
starch, but civilized man needs all the aid that cookery can devise 
to render the starch in his food soluble. 

Upon the application of heat the wrinkled exterior of the hy- 
drated, or water-soaked, starch granules becomes distended and 
bursts, and if the granules be stirred during this process their del- 
icate walls are broken down and a pasty mass results, which, 
when dry, is soluble in either cold or hot water. Such starch is 
readily (Hgestible. 

But starch to be assimilated, must not only be soluble, it must 
be changed by the ptyalin of the saliva and the gastric juice into 
sugar, which, as soon as formed, may be absorbed into the cir- 
culatory system. This change may be partially brought about 
outside of the digestive apparatus and at a saving of energy on the 
part of the digestive organs. Of course, any approximation to 



COOKING OF STARCH AND ALBUMEN 7 

this result would be of gain to the individual. This change is 
produced outside of the human body by subjecting starch to a 
high degree of heat. If ordinary dry starch granules be heated to 
a temperature about 400° and kept there some ten minutes, they 
become brown in color, and, if mixed with water, they form a 
gummy solution, which does not change color, as does starch, when 
subjected to the iodine text. These granules are no longer starch, 
but dextrine; they are now in a condition to be easily changed into 
sugar and assimilated by the system. 

We see, at once, why baked, rather than boiled, potatoes are 
given to a child or an invalid. A potato boiled in water can attain 
a temperature no higher than the water in which it is cooked, viz., 
212°. So that, though the starch be made soluble, it is not 
changed, as it is in potato that is baked in an oven at a temperature 
of nearly 400° Fahr. The same is true in the baking of bread, and 
this is one reason why bread should be baked in small loaves. The 
intense heat of the oven changes the starch upon the outside to 
dextrine, but fails to change tiie starch throughout the loaf, on 
account of the large amount of moistiure contained in it, which 
reduces the temperature somewhat. 

Then, in cooking starch, long cooking at a moderate tempera- 
ture, or cooking at a sufficiently high temperature to change a 
portion of the starch to dextrine is desirable. 

THE COOKING OF ALBUMEN 

Let us ever keep in mind that digestibility and solubility are 
nearly synonymous terms in cookery. The albimien of egg is 
soluble in cold water. In water at 134° Fahr. white fibres appear 
throughout, and at 160° Fahr. the albumen has coagulated through- 
out the egg, but is still tender and jelly-like, and, being soluble, has 
lost little in digestibility. Now, when the hard state of an egg that 
has been cooked in boiling water (212° Fahr.) and the horny and 
still harder state of the egg that has been fried at 300° Fahr. is 
considered, it must be plain that albumen in eggs loses in solubility 
(digestibility) as the temperature to which it is subjected is raised. 
Whatever is true in respect to the cooking of albumen in eggs, is 
equally true in respect to the cooking of albumen in meat and fish, 
and the corresponding substance in the gluten of grains and the 
casein of milk and cheese. In general, sentiment, or taste, demands 
at least, a slight coagulation of the albmninous juices in articles 
of food, but any cookery that carries this coagulation beyond the 



8 PRACTICAL COOKING AND SERVING 

jellying stage is wasteful of product and of digestive energy. The 
"cookuig point" of albumen, then, does not correspond to the 
boiling point of water; it is below this point. In actual practice 
it is a temperature between 160° and 180° Fahr. This point can 
be approximately secured and maintained, when substances are 
cooked in water kept at the simmering point, 185° Fahr., or when 
they are cooked in a double boiler. Albumen, as stated above, 
is foimd ui the juices of flesh; these juices are stored up in hollow 
fibres bovmd together by coimective tissues. When these fibres 
are cut through the juices are exposed, and if the meat be put into 
cold water, or into water or an oven below a temperature of about 
134° Fahr., the juices containing the albumen are drawn out and 
dissolved in the water, or evaporated in the oven. They are with- 
drawn from the meat, which thus becomes poorer in quality and 
less nutritious. 

But if the meat be put into boiling water or a hot oven, the al- 
bumen in the fibres hardens or coagulates at once and closes the 
pores, or mouths, through which thp juices must pass out; from five 
to fifteen minutes' cooking at this temperature suffices to form a 
thick coating over the cut surface and to keep the nutritious juices 
within the meat. This is the key to the proper method of cooking 
meat or fish. 

When these are to be cooked, as for soups or stews, and the 
nutritive juices are to be drawn out into the water, they should be 
set to cook in cold water. When these are to be served as boiled 
meats, or roasts, and the nutritious juices are to be retained, the 
meat should be subjected, at the outset, to a high temperature, 
viz., that of boiling water, a very hot oven, or to the direct rays of 
the fire. But when once the initial process has been accomplished, 
the cooking of both must be completed at such a temperature as 
will insure a tender, jelly-like consistency throughout; that is, the 
temperature of the soup kettle should be raised, while that of the 
boiling or roasting meat should be lowered to the simmering point 
of water. 

The cooking of albumen or starch, when each is cooked sepa- 
rately, is a simple matter; the difficulty arises when the two are 
combined in the same dish. 

SIMMERING AND BOILINQ WATER 

When water is heated the air in it expands (bubbles seen on the 
.bottom of the dish) rises and passes off. The heat now bq^s 



SIMMERING AND BOILING 9 

to change the water into an invisible gas, forming bubbles which 
are larger than the air bubbles. As ttiey come near the surface 
they are cooled and burst, changing back into water. This bub- 
bling below the surface is called simmering. The temperature of 
such water is about 185° Fahr. As the water grows hotter, part 
of the bubbles reach the surface, and there give ofif puffs of steam. 
The temperature is now 212° Fahr. By increasing the heat the 
water may be made to boil furiously, but the temperature will 
not rise higher; the extra heat is all used in turning the water into 
steam. 

One of the first essentials to proper cookery is the ability to dis- 
tinguish between simmering and boiling water. 



CHAPTER III 

Elementary Processes of Cooking 

{Over Coals. 
Pan BroUing 
SautfeiBg. 
Frying. 

Boiling. (Suitable for either tender or J Stewing, 
tough meat.) | Braising. 

ROASTING AND BAKING 

Roasting and boiling are the most primitive ways in which 
heat is applied in cooking; other methods are derived from these. 
Of these roasting and its derivatives are the most esteemed. This 
is on accomit of the appetizing flavors analogous to that of caramel, 
which are brought out by the high temperature to which the article 
is subjected. In roasting, flesh is exposed to the direct rays of an 
open fire, but similar results can be obtained by heat reflected from 
the hot sides of a well-ventilated oven. As the latter method is the 
one in common use in this coimtry, the words roasting and baking 
are herein used as synonymous. As roasted and broiled meats, save 
poultry, are usually served at least a little imderdone, this method 
of cooking is admissible only for tender meats, time being a neces- 
sary factor when tough connective tissues are to be made soluble. 

First wipe the outside of the joint, or the inside of poultry, wiUi 
a damp doth; then set on the rack in a dripping-pan of ample size. 
Have the rack smaller than the pan that die drippings for basting 
the joint may be gotten at easily. Let the pan stand in a very 
hot oven (a little hotter than for bread) about fifteen minutes to 
sear over the outside and imprison the nutritious juices, then close 
the drafts, move the pan to a cooler part of the oven, and, if neces- 
sary to avoid burning, add a little hot water to the fat that has 
already dripped from the joint. To keep the meat from drying. 



ROASTING AND BROILING ii' 

spread over it every ten or fifteen minutes, the smaller the joint 
or article the oftener, the fat in the pan. Poultry and game, de- 
ficient in fat, must have this supplied in some form. A small 
roast may be seared over in a frying pan; if this be done, less heat 
is required in the oven. 

BROILING 

In broiling or grilling, as in roasting proper, the article to be 
cooked is exposed to the direct rays of the fire, but in broiling we 
are dealing with thin pieces of meat, or viands, dressed to present 
as much surface as possible to the heat; when properly cooked, the 
outside is slightly crusted over, while the inside is but delicately 
cooked. To secure this result the article is set about three inches 
from the coals, or fuel, at first, and is turned every ten seconds. 
The strong heat hardens the albumen in the ends of the hollow 
fibres and confines the juices; by frequent turning burning is 
avoided, and both sides are cooked evenly. After the siirface of 
the meat is well seared over, it should be withdrawn to a greater 
distance from the fire to finish the cooking. A hinged broiler, 
which does away with handling the article in turning, is the desir- 
able utensil. Before using, heat this gently, and oil well the bars 
with fat from the meat. 

In broiling, gas and electricity give fairly good results, but 
broiling by electricity more nearly resembles pan-broiling, to be 
noted later. Gas is better adapted to broiling fish than steaks and 
chops. When a dear bed of coals is not at hand, a broiler, in 
which charcoal is the fuel, may be used with almost any stove, 
provided the stove be connected with the chimney. In broiling 
by any fuel, let the dampers be turned to carry the flame, caused 
by the dripping fat, away from the meat up the flue. As long as 
the meat contains uncoagulated juice, it will have a puffy apjjear- 
ance and reboimd under pressiure. One experienced in broiling 
can judge quite accurately of the condition of the meat by appear- 
ance and sense of touch; others will do well to regulate the time of 
cooking by the dock. Birds, sweetbreads, and other delicades 
are often wrapped in oiled paper before broiUng. 

(Consult Time-table of Cooking, page 34.) 

PAN BROILING 

Rub over the surface oi a very hot cast-iron frying pan with a 
bit of fat; put in the meat, and turn constantly, keeping the pan^ 



13 PRACTICAL COOKING AND SERVING 

very hot. A cast-iron pan holds heat longer than a sheet-iron pan. 
Pour off melted fat that collects in the pan lest the meat be saut6d 
rather than broiled. 

SAUTEINQ 

It is but a step from pan-broiling to saut6ing; let the fat remain 
upon the chops and melt into the pan, and in this cook the chops, 
first on one side and then on the other, and, in reality, they are 
saut6d. In practice, the fat to be used needs to be made hot in 
the pan, and then the article to be cooked is browned in the fat, 
first upon one side and then on the other. After the first side is 
cooked and the article is turned over, to cook the other side, the 
first side, being exposed to the air, cools very quickly, and the 
condensing steam leaves a vacuum into which the fat upon the 
outside settles, there being no opportimity to drain it off. Fat 
raised to a high temperature undergoes dianges by which fatty 
acids are evolved, and these are not wholesome^ so this form of 
cooking is not to be commended. When indulged in, the article 
to be cooked should be dried by rolling in flour, meal or fine crumbs ; 
then have the fat qmte hot, to sear over the outside and keep in 
the juices. 

FRYING 

Frying is a method of cooking in which heat is commtmicated 
to the article to be cooked by immersion in quite hot fat — that is, 
in fat at a temperature between 345° and 400° Fahr. Two impor- 
tant things are to be noted in frying: the article to be cooked is to 
be immersed in the fat, and the fat is to be quite hot; also the prep- 
aration of the articles themselves should receive attention. In 
order that the articles to be fried may be immersed, use a deep 
kettle (a round, iron, Scotch bowl is needed), this must be filled 
with fat to nearly two thirds its height, vegetable oil, cottolene, 
lard, clarified drippings, or with a mixture of these, according to 
one's means or taste. 

HOT FAT 

Cooking fats do not boil, the bubbles rising in a kettle of hot fat 
and the spluttering noises are caused by water in the fat. If the 
temperature of spluttering fat be tested, the thermometer would 
register about 212° Fahr., and as long as any water remains in the 
&t the temperature cannot be raised above this point; but when 




SHAPING CROQUETTES. (See page 24.) 







^J5«f 


ifN 


If^^ 




.M 




^KBjkVm 


^^ 


1^^ 


* ''*^8 


bM 


?#'J 




aB^K W 


^^4 


iw 


j^^l 


j^K 


H H 




WSIkM* 


^^ 


' iL 


f^^t 


Hp 


? p 






^^■K 


MsKf^ 


fci..^' _»i^^Hpi 


^»fe4 


' H 


v^ 


' •s"5^*^^^ 


B^^ 


^w^ 


'*w'«ii,liii»yiiWilw«* 


ai««^ 


mLloMk 


m 




*** 


mmm 


ni^irann 


■Mi 


Hfi 



BONED AND STUFFED FOWL, LARDED. 




UTENSILS FOR MAKING SAUCES. (See page 200.) 

Pointed strainer, saucepan, driuble-boiler, cup holding half a pint, wire 

whisk, wooden spoon, tablespoon filled with butter. 



FRYING 13 

the water has evaporated the fat becomes still, and in a short time 
a faint blue smoke, or, more properly, vapor, becomes visible. 
This indicates a temperature of about 380° Fahr., and is the proper 
temperature for frying small articles; those, for instance, that are 
protected by -a covering of egg and bread crumbs, especially if they 
have been previously cooked, as croquettes. Potatoes sliced thin, 
or tiny white-bait, tie one on account of being cold and containing 
a large quantity of moisture, the other on account of size, and both 
because they are to be thoroughly crisped, require fat at a higher 
temperature, that is, about 400° Fahr. — while doughnuts and frit- 
ters are cooked at a temperature of about 345°. Vegetable oils reach 
the proper temperature for frying before vapor is visible, and, in 
any case, if one fails to detect vapor, the temperature may be tested 
by throwing in a piece of bread. 

TESTS FOR HOT FAT 

If the fat bubbles vigorously around the crumb, throwing out 
large bubbles of Steam, and the bread browns while one is counting 
forty or fifty, the cooking point has been reached. If only small 
bubbles appear around the crumb and it does not brown quickly, 
the cooking point has not been reached. As articles that are to 
be cooked in fat contain water, which will be turned, in the hot fat, 
into steam and cause a " spluttering," it is well to make the surface 
of these dry before they are lowered into the fat. Sometimes flour, 
or flour mixed with liquid to form a batter, is used for this purpose, 
but egg and bread crumbs are used more frequently. When the 
article inclosed in a coating of egg arid crumbs is plunged into the 
hot fat, the albumen in the egg coagulates at once, forming a fat- 
proof covering about the article. There is always some moisture, 
even in dry cnmibs, as well as in the object itself; this keeps down 
the temperature inside the coating; also the coating not only keeps 
out the fat, but keeps in the flavor and savor in a remarkable man- 
ner, and the result is, if the article be but removed from the fat 
at the proper time, a most juicy and dehcious plat. 

UTENSILS FOR FRYING 

A deep iron bowl with a bail, known as a Scotch bowl, a wire 
basket that fits loosely into the bowl, a long-handled fork or spoon, 
to hold the basket during frying and while the cooked articles are 
draining, a tin pan to set the basket on, and soft paper in a second. 



14 PRACTICAL COOKING AND SERVING 

pan for the final draining are the utensils that render frying a simple 
process. When a frying-basket is not accessible, a long-handled 
skimmer will do fairly well. 

TIME OF COOKING 

The articles should not be crowded in the basket, or they will 
lower the temperature too much, nor should they touch each other.. 
The color when cooked should be fresh, bright yellow, or delicate 
brown. Fat in which chops or fillets of fish are to be cooked (these 
require about five minutes' cooking) should be drawn to a cooler 
part of the range after the first minute of cooking, lest the articles 
become too brown before they are thoroughly cooked. As the fat 
is not, or should not be, as hot when the frying is completed as at 
the beginning, it should be reheated until the vapor rises before a 
second lot is fried. Do not let the articles touch each other while 
draining on the paper at the mouth of the oven, else they lose their 
crispness; remove from the basket and also arrange on the serving- 
dish with the tips of the fingers. 

CARE OF FAT 

When the frying is completed and the fat has stood a few 
moments to cool and settle, strain through a sieve, an old one 
will do, over which a piece of cheesecloth has been spread, into a 
clean receptacle; wipe out the bowl with cloth or papers and 
return the fat, cover and set aside. When needed again, let stand 
on the back of the range and heat very slowly, then drop in some 
thin slices of potato; potato being very porous will absorb the 
impurities from the fat and thus clarify it. Particles of flour, etc., 
left in the fat after cooking will, when the fat is reheated, turn to 
charcoal, or become carbonized and cause the fat to become dark 
in color; for this reason, or because the fat has been overheated and 
undergone chemical changes, fat that has been used only a few 
times often becomes rnifit for frying, as it will not brown the food 
properly. When this is the case, set it aside for soap-making; 
with proper care, however, fat may be used for fmng many times. 

Olive ofl does not bum as readily as animal fats, and for this 
reason it may be used more repeatedly than lard or drippings. 
But in careless hands any fat is liable to become overheated and 
burned. The same kettle of fat may be used for frying aH articles 
if fish or anything that imparts flavor be carefully protected 



CARE OF FAT 15 

■with egg and bread crumbs; but, in practice, where much frying is 
done it-is more economical to keep two bowls, one for fritters and 
flour mixtures, the other for fish and meat preparations, renewing 
the fat in the latter from the former and adding fresh fat to the first 
kettle as it is needed. The fat from mutton, turkeys, and smoked 
meats is not good for the fat "bath " ; bacon fat is used for saut6ing. 
When properly conducted, frying in deep fat has been found by 
careful experiments to be more economical than sauteing; it is 
also more wholesome, as articles thus cooked properly and drained 
absorb veiy little fat. 

BOILING 

' Boiling as applied to cooking is the application of heat to food 
products through the mediiun of boiling, or simmering water. At 
sea-level water boils at 212°, and simmers at 185° Fahr. Rapid- 
boiling water, unless the steam be confined, attains no higher 
temperature and so cooks food no more quickly than water boiling 
less rapidly. When rapid-boiling water is advisable, as in boiling 
macaroni, rice, or peas, the object is not to cook more quickly, but 
to separate the contents by violence of motion and keep them 
from clinging to the receptacle in which they are cooked. The 
boiling point of stock and mjlk is slightly higher than that of water. 
Milk boils at 214° Fahr.; as this temperature hardens the casein, 
thus making it less digestible, milk should not be allowed to reach 
the boiling point; it should be cooked over hot water. When 
bead-like bubbles appear on the edge of milk next to the dish the 
milk is scalded. Scalded milk reaches a temperature of 196°. 
As we wish to'retain all the juices in boiled meat, we plunge it, first 
of all, into boiling water, and after searing over the outside reduce 
the temperature to the simmering point. Water does not sinmier 
when it is perfectly still, the surface of the liquid should stir gently. 
When bubbles are formed that break upon the surface, the 
water boils. While rapid boiling softens the connecting tissues 
between the little bundles of fibres and causes meat to appear 
tender, the fibre itself is made soluble only by long slow coolung; 
also the flavors of meats (and vegetables as weU) are volatile, and 
much of these is carried off in the steam from rapidly boiling 
water. Thus, it would seem that, save for the hardening of the 
albumen, reason suffices for cooking meat, after the juices are 
imprisoned, at the simmering point. Closed vessels aid in re- 
taining flavor. 



i6 PRACTICAL COOKING AND SERVING 

STEWING 

Stewing is done by gentle simmering in a small quantity of liquid ; 
by this means the juices and gelatinous substances in the products 
are partially softened and dissolved in the liquid; the savor and 
juices of the contents are divided between the article thus cooked 
and the liquid. Chef Meyer notices three varieties of stews: the 
brown stew, known as the ragout, or haricot; the white stew, as 
blanquette, or fricassee, and miscellaneous, or mixed stews, as the 
Irish stews and Hungarian goulash. The color of the brown stew 
is secured by browning, or sauteing, the meat before the water is 
added. The meat for a white stew is put over a fire with cold 
water to cover, and the cooking proceeds very slowly until the boil- 
ing point is reached; when this has been well established, the 
cooking is completed at the simmering point. When the meat is 
tender, the. vegetables used for flavoring are removed, and the 
sauce is thickened with a roux, or with flour mixed smoothly with 
water to pour. Oftentimes stews are thickened by the addition 
of barley, rice, oatmeal, and potatoes, and a garnish of vegetables, 
as small boiled onions, green peas, potato balls, or slices, or mush- 
rooms are added. A close-covered saucepan, or a firq)roof 
casserole, are the best utensils for making ste^s. The cooking 
may be done in the oven, or on the top of the range. 

BRAISING 

' Braising is a more elaborate process of stewing. This form of 
cooking is suited to small pieces of meat; it provides a dish of rather 
more pretension than a stew, and yet one that, while it may supply 
the place of a roast, would not be considered quite as elegant. 
Pans are made for braising, with lid sunk so as to hold hot coals, 
or burning charcoal, and thus providbg heat above and below. 
Such pans are expensive; an ordinary pan, or plain eattheo casser- 
ole, with a cover answers every purpose. The article to be braised 
should not be very mudi smaller than the dish itself; a two-inch 
space on all sides of the article is ample. 

Melt in the dish an ounce of butter, or drippings, and then put 
in a layer of mixed vegetables, carrot, onion, celery, turnip, etc., 
cleaned and cut into small cubes; add also a piece of bay leaf, a 
sprig of parsley, and a sprig of thjrme, if at hand. On this bed lay 
the articles to be braised, trimmed and fastened in compact shape, 
also larded, if desired. Put the cover over the meat and let cook. 



STEWING AND BRAISING 17 

shaking occasionally for about fifteen minutes; then add water, 
or stock, to touch the bottom of the meat. Spread a layer of 
vegetables over the top of the meat and cut a piece of white paper 
a little larger than the top of the pan; brush this over with oil, 
butter, or dripping, and lay closely down over the meat and vege- 
tables, so as to keep in all the steam. Put the cover in place and 
let simmer very gently until done; then remove the cover and paper, 
and brown the top of the meat in a hot oven. The time of cooking 
varies with the kind and quality of the meat. 

POELINQ 

Poeling is a kind of casserole cookery, but no liquid other than 
hot fat for basting is used. Lest the meat fry in the fat it must 
be raised by means of a rack or several skewers. Sliced vegetables 
are set in the bottom of the dish and sprinkled over the article to 
be cooked. Boned and rolled meats, poultry and birds are cooked 
in this manner. The earthen casserole is kept closely covered save 
when basting with fat, three or four times an hour, is in order. 

POACHINQ 

The term "poaching " is applied to the cooking of various articles 
by means of a liqmd that is always kept just below the boiling point. 
The cooking is carried out by quite diverse procedures, but no 
matter what the particular differences in manipulation may be, 
this one thing of cooking below the boiling point always remains 
the same. An article that is cooked by poaching is cooked deli- 
cately, and the Uquid surrounding it is always kept just on the 
point of boiUng, but never boils. Eggs and quenelles are poached 
by immersion in salted water. Mousselines, timbales and similar 
preparations are poached in molds surrounded with water; fillets 
of chicken and fish are poached in a few spoonfuls of concentrated 
broth, and whole birds are poached in just enough broth to com- 
pletely cover them. 



CHAPTER IV 
Processes and Terms Used in Cooking 

MEASURING 

In the careful cook's outfit scales are a necessity, but, as this 
item in so many households is considered non-essential, measures 
by cups and spoonfuls are as a rule indicated in the recipes. The 
cup referred to is invariably the "cooking-school" measuring cup 
upon the side of whic.h divisions in thirds and fourths are indicated. 
The cup is of proper size when it holds exactly half a pint, two gills 
of liquid, or half a pound of granulated sugar, or butter. (See 
also Table of Weights and Measures, page 38.) A tablespoon 
holding half an ounce of sugar or butter, level measure, and a tea- 
spoon holding sixty drops of water are of proper size for the re- 
spective measurements. 

In all recipes where flour is used, unless otherwise stated, the 
flour is measured after sifting once. When flour is measured 
by cups, the cup is filled with a spoon and a level cup is meant. A 
tablespoonful, or a teaspoonful, of any designated material is a 
level spoonful of such material. 

Half a tablespoonful, or teaspoonful, is obtained by dividing a 
spoonful lengthwise of the spoon; divide the half -spoonful cross- 
wise, for quarters. A cup of liquid cannot be safely carried, as 
it is all the cup will hold; the same is true of a spoonful of liquid. 

WAYS OF COMBINING INGREDIENTS 

Stirring is done by moving a spoon or knife round and round, in 
ever widening circles, until the ingredients are thoroughly blendedi 

Beating is done by cutting down with a spoon (or other utensil) 
from the top to the bottom of a mixture and bringing the spoon 
up to the surface, then passing over and down again and thus turn- 
ing the mixture over and over. The object is to combine air with 
the mixture and make it light. 

18 



COOKING pVER HOT WATER 19 

CUTTING AND FOLDING 

This term is usually applied to the process by which the whites 
of eggs, or cream, beaten stiff, may be incorporated into another 
mixture without the destruction and loss of air bubbles that have 
already been formed. Put the mixture, or ingredients to be 
combined, into a dish. With spoon or knife cut down to the bot- 
tom of the dish, turn, bring to the top and fold over the mixture 
thus brought to the surface. Repeat the process until the in- 
gredients are completely blended. 

WHAT IS MEANT BY "TOSSING" "COOKING OVER HOT 
WATER," ETC. 

To "toss" is to move small articles about in the frying pan, in 
which there is melted butter, or seasonings, that the articles may 
be uniformly covered with tie butter, or seasonings. To secure 
this, shake the pan as in popping corn, or rapidly turn the articles 
over and over with a spoon or fork. 

COOKING OVER HOT WATER, OR DRY STEAMING 

The vessel in which food is thus cooked does not come in direct 
contact with the source of heat; boiling water intervenes. The 
double-boiler is the proper utensil. 

To "poach" is "to cook, as eggs, by breaking them into a vessel 
of boiling water." 

SERVING AU GRATIN 

To serve au gratin is to serve a dish covered with cracker crumbs, 
buttered and browned in the oven. To prepare, with a silver fork 
mix one cup of cracker cnunbs with one fourth, or one third a cup 
of melted butter; spread over the hot preparation, usually some 
cooked article mixed with a sauce — and set in a hot oven long 
enough to brown the crumbs. 

SERVING 'A LA JARDINlfeRE 

To serve h. la jardiniere is to serve with a mixture of several 
cooked vegetables usually cut small. 

A SALPICON 

A salpicon is a mixture of fruits in a flavored syrup, or of cooked 
fish, game, or meatSj of one or more kinds, cut in cubes and mixed 



20 PRACTICAL COOKING AND SERVING 

with bits of truffles, or mushrooms, in a rich creamy sauce. The 
latter may be served in patties, Swedish timbale cases, in tiny cas- 
seroles, or from a vol-au-vent. Or it may be used as the filling or 
centre of timbales, or inside a rice, or potato, border. A fruit 
salpicon is served in individual glasses, in a pineapple, or musk- 
melon shell, or in the peel of oranges, or grape-fruit. 

LARDING 

Cut the rind from a piece of fat salt pork two inches wide and 
four inches long; cut slices one fourth an inch thick the same way 
as the rind down to the little bunch of fibres that separate the upper 
firm layer of pork from the softer layer below; cut each slice, cross- 
wise, into match-like strips one fourth an inch thick (lardoons). 
As soon as the lardoons are cut, put them where they will keep 
cool until ready to use. Insert one end of the lardoon into the 
larding-needle and use this like any needle, taking stitches about 
three eighths an inch deep and three fourths an inch wide. When 
the needle and pork have been drawn through the flesh, cut ofiE 
the pork, leaving a part in the meat with ends of equal length 
outside. In the same way take up as many stitches as are desired, 
about three fourths an inch apart, inserting fresh lardoons into 
the needle as often as they are needed. 

DAUBING 

The flavor of a thick, dry piece of lean meat is often improved 
by making cuts through it from one side to the other and pressing 
into these cuts thick lardoons of fat salt pork (half an inch thick). 
This process is called daubing, and is used for beef a la mode, etc. 

BONING 

Boning is the removing of all bones from fish, fowl, or joint, 
leaving the flesh entire. Fish, fowl, a leg of mutton, a fore-quarter, 
or shoulder of mutton, lamb, or veal, and chops, are the pieces 
usually boned. Often fish are much rnore appetizing and sightly 
when boned. It is also an economical method of serving fish, as 
the bones, with such particles of flesh as adhere to them, seasoned 
with vegetables, produce good stock for basting, or for a sauce. 
In boning a bird or fowl, the flesh is removed from the frame, or 
bones in one piece. In boning birds and poultry, one of two objects 



COOKED FINE HERBS 21 

is in view: either to retain the natural shape of the bird or to pre- 
pare the flesh for inclosing stuffing, to form a galantine. 

ROUX 

Roux (French for red) is a cooked preparation of butter and flour 
used for thickening gravy, sauces, and soups. The proportions 
of butter and flour are one ounce of butter and half an ounce of 
flour to one cup of liquid for sauces, and one pint of liquid for 
soups; by measure two level tablespoonfuls, each, of butter and 
flour to one cup, or one pint of liquid. While these are the or- 
dinary proportions, more flour, even a full ounce, for an ounce of 
butter is occasionally required, as when making sauce for cro- 
quettes and similar mixtures. And also when making a brown 
roux,. or roux proper, as the flour in browning loses some of its 
thickening qualities. To prepare, melt the butter; when bubbling 
add the flour, mix well and leave on a slow fire, stirring occasionally 
until it becomes of a reddish brown, or mahogany color. 

This is roux, but in cookery we speak of it as brown roux. When 
the flour has cooked in the bubbling butter just long enough to 
burst the starch cells, rather less than five minutes, and without 
taking color, the preparation is called blonde roux. When a more 
highly flavored roux is desired, cook a "faggot" with a slice of onion 
in the butter before adding the flour. Cool the roux before adding 
a hot liquid; a cold liquid may be added at once. Roux may be 
prepared and set aside for future use. This may be of advantage 
in Uie case of brown roux, but certainly it is not called for in the 
case of the blond, as it is but five minutes' work to prepare the 
latter. 

COOKED FINE HERBS. USED FOR PAUPIETTES, CHOPS, 
SAUCES, ETC. 

1 oz. of butter. (Stalks and other trimmings, or whole 
i dove of garlic, fine chopped. mushrooms) 

2 oz. of shallot, fine chopped. i cup, each, of glaze and white or 
4 oz. of parsley, fine chopped. brown sauce. 

4 oz. of mushrooms. 

Melt the butter, add the garlic and shaUot, and cook without 
coloring two or three minutes; add the mushrooms, chopped fine, 
and stir and cook imtil the moisture has evaporated, then add the 
parsley, and, if not to be used at once, also one fourth cup, each, 



22 



PRACTICAL COOKING AND SERVING 



of glaze and white or brown sauce, and simmer until quite con- 
sistent. 

HERB BOUQUET 

For flavoring soups and sauces what is known as an herb bouquet 
is used. This conunonly consists of a bay leaf, a sprig of thjrme, 
or sweet marjoram, and two or three cloves wrapped and tied 
within two or t^ee sprigs of parsley. Yellow rind of lemon may 
be added. When seeds, as celery and peppercorns, are used, the 
whole may be tied in a bit of cheesecloth. The object is to secure 
easy removal from the hot liquid. 

HOW TO ADD YOLKS OF EGGS TO SOUPS OR SAUCES 

In adding yolks of eggs to soups and sauces to secure richness 
or thickening (liaison), remoye the sauce or soup from the fire, then 
mix a spoonful or two of the liquid with the yolks, previously beaten 
and, when well-blehded, add a httle more of the liquid, mix and 
ppiu- into the saucepan. If the egg does not look cooked, return 
to the fire a moment and stir without letting boil. 

SEASONING AND FLAVORING 

The use of onions in culinary preparations has ever been a much- 
mooted question. ' Though the more refined members of society 
have always placed a sweeping interdict upon them, their use to 
the extent, at least, that is indicated by the French soupcon, 
or suspicion, is of decided advantage. And really, there is no 
question that, even in larger measure, the flavor of onions is of 
genuine value in rendering fish, veal, and the cheaper cuts of beef 
savory. It is the savor of all savors beloved of the artisan^ and oft 
and again renders some homely dish acceptable day after day. 
Parsley, whenever it is possible, should be used in connection with 
onion. It is thought to counteract a tendency in some to the flat- 
ulency caused by the onion. It also sweetens the breath. Dried 
mushrooms, when the fresh are not to be had, mushroom or to- 
mato catsup, the outer stalks and green leaves of celery, or celery 
seeds, sweet peppers, green or red, a bit of bay leaf, aromatic 
herbs, or a drop or two of tabasco sauce used judiciously, now and 
then, will lend savor or piquancy to many an otherwise plain dish. 
It is often the little pleasing surprise in flavor that starts the flow 
of the digestive fluids and puts the tired workman (whether of hand 



EGGING AND CRUMBING 23 

or brain) in genial mood. The simple art of judicious flavoring is 
one that every woman with a family to feed would do well to 
cultivate. 

The German housewife adds a sprig of mint to green peas while 
they are cooking, also mace or nutmeg to many a meat and vege- 
table dish. A little mace in the custard used as a garnish for soups, 
and in such delicately flavored dishes as chicken, or sweetbread 
timbales, often changes flat and insipid productions into most 
acceptable plats. Delicate meats and fish for salads are much 
improved by being allowed to stand some time before serving in a 
French dressing — a mixture of oil and acid. (See Salads, page 
320.) Tough, dry, or tasteless meat can be improved by letting 
stand some time before cooking in a marinade. Mustard should 
be used with care. It bites too soon. 

HOW TO EXTRACT ONION JUICE 

Cut a thin slice from one end of the onion, then press against a 
lemon grater, giving a slight rotary motion; turn the grater, and 
the juice will flow from one corner. Or, scifape the cut side with a 
sharp knife to secure fine pulp. 

TO EQQ-AND-BREAD-CRUMB FOR FRYING 

THE CRUMBS 

Separate the crust of bread from the crumb and dry each sepa^ 
fately in the warming-oven, without letting the crumb take color; 
pass through a meat-chopper and a sieve. Use the brown crumb 
for the first coating, and the white for the outside. If a very deli- 
cate color be desired, use pieces of undried bread, and pass through 
a colander; the larger quantity of moisture in the fresh crumb 
causes the article thus covered to assume a more delicate hue. 
Season the crumbs before using with salt and pepper. Sifted 
criraibs of fresh bread are best. Cracker crumbs are not often 
desirable, as they give a pasty crust. Lady-finger crumbs or 
powdered macaroons are often used for crumbing sweet dishes. 

THE EGG 

The whole egg is preferable; but the white or yolk alone may be 
used. The white, being almost pure albumen, gives a tough crust, 
and the yolk alone,[wMch contains considerable fat, a more tender 



24 PRACTICAL COOKING AND SERVING 

crust. When for convenience the white is used alone, add to each 
portion of two eggs a tablespoonful, each, of oil and water, beat 
together thoroughly, but not to a foam, and pass through a sieve. 
Wten whole eggs, or yolks alone, are used, omit the oil, adding 
water equal to the volume of egg. More water may be added. 

THE ARTICLE 

Have the seasoned crumbs upon the meat-board; roll the articles 
to be coated in the crmnbs, then hold them, one at a time, on a 
broad-bladed knife over the egg, and with a very soft brush dipped 
into the egg brush every part of the object. Or, if preferred, for 
croquette mixtures use a spoon and pour the egg over the article, 
moistening every part; then drop from the knfie into the crtmibs 
and roll on the board until completely and evenly covered with 
cnunbs; let stand a little before frying. Fine-chopped parsley 
may be added to the crumbs, in case of savory artides. 

TO BREAD-CRUMB A LA MILANAISE 

Dip the article to be breaded in melted butter, then in equal 
parts of grated Parmesan cheese and white cnunbs; finish with 
egg and crumbs. 

TO BREAD-CRUMB A LA DIABLE 

Season with salt, pepper, and mustard, or spread with "made" 
mustard; dip in crumbs, then in egg and again in crumbs. Used 
for mutton chops, either for broilmg or frying, also for cooked 
chicken, or turkey legs, to be reheated by broiling and frying. 

TO BREAD FOR BROILING 

Brush or coat the article with oil or melted butter, then roll 
in white cnunbs. 

TO BREAD FISH WITH FLOUR FOR FRYING 

Dip the fish in milk, then in flour, seasoned with salt and 
pepper. 

TO SHAPE CROQUETTE MIXTURE 

When the croquette mixture is cold and firm, roll with the 
hands into balls, then gently roll each ball in turn in crumbs, care- 



MARINADE FOR VENISON, ETC. 25 

fuuy covering each part with crumbs and giving to the ball such 
shape as is desired. The easiest shape for a beginner to attempt 
is that of a cylinder. To secure this shape, lightly roll the ball 
back and forth upon the crumbs, pressing upon it gently to lengthen, 
then take up lightly and drop the end gently on the board, turn 
and drop the other end upon tie board, repeating the process. Let 
stand to stiffen a Uttle, then cover with the egg. Roll at once in 
the crumbs a second time, rolling and shaping as before, to insure 
perfection in shape and smoothness of crust. Let stand an hour 
before frying. Croquette mixtures made of fish or lobster are 
usually given a half-heart or cutlet shape. To secure this flatten 
the ball with a broad-bladed knife, or the hand, making one end 
pointed and the other roimd; round out one side and curve the 
other by pressing with the fingers. Insert a short piece of maca- 
roni into the pointed end of a fish chop before cooking. After 
cooking cover with a paper frill; or, omit the macaroni, and insert 
sprig of parsley after tiie chop is fried. The small claws of the 
lobster are inserted in lobster chops, or cutlets, after frying. A 
tiny, paper aigrette is used for croquettes made cork-shaped. 

FAT FOR FRYING, ETC. 

Cut cooked or uncooked fat in small pieces; if it be uncooked let 
stand twenty-four hours in cold water, changing the water once 
in the period; this will reduce the flavor. When ready to cook 
drain and add a cup of milk for each two poxmds of fat, and cook 
very slowly, until the fat is clear, the pieces are light brown in 
color, and there is no sound of cooking. With a wooden spoon 
loosen, but do not stir, the fat from the bottom of the kettle; strain 
through a cloth, then press the remaining fat from the pieces for 
use as fat of second quality. 

COOKED MARINADE FOR VENISON, MUTTON, ETC. 

I quart of water. 2 tablespoonfuls of butter. 

I pint of vinegar. 6 sprigs of parsley. 

23 tablespoonfuls of salt. i tablespoonful of mixed herbs. 

I tablespoonful of peppercorns. 2 onions, sliced. 

A blade of mace. i carrot sliced. 

Put all the ingredients over ^e fire; let boil up once, then simmer 
gently half an hour. Use at once, or strain, and store in fruit 
jars for future use. In practice let the meat stand in the marinade 



26 PRACTICAL COOKING AND SERVING 

„ -v.-- 

one to four days, according to the season of the year, turning the 
same in the liquid occasionally. 

MARINADE FOR CHOPS, FILLETS OF FISH, ETC. 

Brush over the articles with olive oil, sprinkle with lemon juice, 
then pile in twos, with a sliced onion and strips of green or red 
pepper between. Let stand over night, or several hours. If the 
meat be tough, use the oil more generously, and substitute vinegar 
for lemon juice. Cooked meats, or fish to be served in a sauce, 
are often much improved, if let stand an hour or two in a mixture 
of equal parts of oil, lemon juice, half a teaspoonfxil of salt to a 
pint of material, a dash of paprika, and a little onion juice, if the 
latter be agreeable. Drain before adding to the sauce. 

CROUTONS FOR SOUPS 

Cut the bread in slices from one fourth to three eighths an inch 
thick; remove the crusts, and cut in small cubes, or in finger- 
lengths; then saute in hot butter, or spread with butter and brown 
in the oven, turning frequently that all sides may be evenly 
browned. 

CROUTONS FOR A GARNISH 

Croutons may be used as a garnish for scalloped oysters or 
spinach, for meat oi" fish in a sauce; triangvdar pieces, acute angled, 
or those with a broad base, are the choice; after shaping prepare as 
other croutons. 

BREAD CROUSTADES 

Bread croustades are croutons fashioned to hold a puree of some 
kind, or some cooked article, cut small and mixed with a sauce. 
These may be stamped in rounds, diamonds, or other shapes, with 
cutters made for the purpose. The slice of bread varies in thick- 
ness, according to the service. After the bread is in the required 
shape, with a pointed knife cut a line around the top of the slice 
about half an inch from the edge and carefully remove the crumb 
to form a receptacle. The walls should be half an inch thick. 
Brown as croutons for soup, or by frying in deep fat. 

PASTRY CROUSTADES 

Roll trimmings from puff paste into a sheet one fourth an inch 
thick; then with a cutter dipped in hot water stamp out pieces of 



CROUSTADES 27 

paste; heart, diamond, and round shapes are generally used. 
With a small round cutter dipped in hot water, score the centre 
quite deeply, but do not cut through the paste. Bake as any 
pufE paste; then remove the centres and fill. Small patty cases 
are often used for this purpose. 

POTATO CROUSTADES 

Use plain mashed potato, or duchess potato mixture. (See 
page 264.) Spread the potato evenly to the depth of half an inch 
on a buttered baking-sheet; brush over with yolk of egg, beaten 
and diluted with a little milk. When cold cut the potato diagonally 
in two directions, to make diamond-shaped pieces about three 
inches in length, or cut out with a cutter. Score these diagonally, 
to present small diamond shapes, then reheat by browning in a 
hot oven. To serve, remove a bit from the centre of each and place 
in and above this a teaspoonful of peas, asparagus, or fine-chopped 
meat, in a thick sauce. This provides a suitable; way of serving 
potato and peas in a fish course. 

RICE CROUSTADES 

I cup of rice. § a teaspoonful of salt. 

I a cup of tomato purfe. 3 tablespoonfuls of butter. 

3 cups of chicken broth. Egg and bread crumbs. 

Parboil and rinse the rice. Return to the saucepan with the 
puree, broth, salt and butter, and when boiling cook over hot 
water, until the rice is tender and the liquid is absorbed. Then 
pack into one large mould, into small dariole moulds, or mufiSn 
rings placed on a baking-sheet, all well buttered. Set aside to 
cool. When cold, egg-and-bread-crumb; then with a sharp- 
pointed knife or small cutter make an incision around each 
croustade, leaving a rim about one fourth an inch wide. Fry to 
a golden brown in deep fat; then remove the piece in the centre of 
the tops, scoop out the centres and fill with cooked material, cut 
in cubes and heated in a sauce. Make incision before egging and 
crumbing. 

BLANCHED RICE 

To a cup of rice add a quart of cold water, let boil five minutes 
after the boiling point is reached, then wash and drain on a sieve. 



28 PRACTICAL COOKING AND SERVING 



BLANCHING FRESH VEGETABLES 

Many vegetables are improved in appearance and made more 
delicate in flavor if they be blanched (parboiled and drained) be- 
fore the cooking proper is begun. Set the vegetables, properly 
cleaned, to cook in plenty of boiling water; let cook from five to 
fifteen or more minutes, according to size, etc., drain and rinse with 
cold water. Then cook to finish as desired. 

BEATING EGGS 

Without taking into consideration the fact that eggs enrich 
mixtures, they are added either to thicken a mixture, or to thicken 
and render a mixture light. Lightness is not always desirable. 
When eggs are added simply to thicken a mixture they should 
be beaten only until the wlutes and yolks are well mixed, i. e., 
without separating the whites from the yolks and until a spoonful 
of the mixture can be taken up and held in the spoon. A spoon, 
fork, whisk, or Dover egg-beater may be used. When the eggs are 
added to insure lightness the yolks and whites should be beaten 
separately — the yolks until thick and lemon-colored, and the 
whites until dry. 

Various textiures may be given to the whites of eggs in beating, 
by a judicious selection of the utensil used. If a dose texture be 
desirad, choose the Dover egg-beater; a looser texture is insured 
by the confectioner's whisk, and a still looser texture by the flat- 
beater. The reason for this Hes in the fact that the whisk and flat- 
beater carry into the mixture more air, half the utensil at each 
motion being first in the air and then in the egg, while the Dover 
beater is immersed in the egg until the egg is beaten. 

In using the Dover egg-beater, let it rest lightly in the bowl, 
beating slowly at first, then increasing in rapidity. To beat well 
eggs should be cold and fresh; a few grains of salt may be added to 
the whites to hasten the process. 

BEATING CREAM 

Cream from milk that has stood twenty-four hours is known as 
double cream. This cream, when chiUed, may be beaten stiff 
with the Dover egg-beater in a very few seconds; if beaten a second 
too long it turns to butter. This gives a firm, fine-grained cream, 
and is used whenever a rich, stiff cream is required, as an addition 



BEATING EGGS AND CREAM 29 

to a salad dressing, for the filling of cream cakes and eclairs, for the 
filling of a bomb glace (when no gelatine mixture is to be added), or 
to force through a pastry-bag and tube for a garnish. When it 
is used to give lightness, as in Bavarian cream, etc., it should be 
folded, not stirred, into the other ingredients. 

With a Dunlap silver blade cream whip, cream may be quickly 
whipped and without spattering. Thin cream may be thickened 
with viscogen. (See page 32.) 

THE PASTRY-BAQ AND TUBES 

In filling moulds evenly and disposing soft materials, as chou 
paste, lady-finger mixture, purees, mayonnaise dressing and 
whipped cream, in small shapely portions, the best results can be 
obtained by the use of the pastry-bag, and tubes. Bags of duck 
or rubber cloth are pm:chasable, but they can be easily made at 
home and at less than one fourth the expense of boughten goods. 
Tubes of different shapes and sizes can be bought singly or in sets. 
A threaded ring, which fits into the smaller end of the bag, and to 
which the several tubes can be attached, accompanies the sets. 
Single tubes are not provided with thread or groove. The bag is 
made to fit the tubes. 

THE BAG 

Fold a square of ticking, duck, or rubber cloth, to form a"'triangle; 
stitch and fell one of the open sides; cut off the small end of the 
bag thus formed, to make an opening, into which the shank, or 
tube, inserted at the larger end may be fitted closely; hem this end, 
also the top of the bag. 

USE OF BAG AND TUBE 

Fix the tube in place; roll outward the upper part of the bag 
so as to put the mixture just above the tube without smearing the 
sides of file bag. Fill the bag about one third full. With the right 
hand carefully twist the bag above the mixture, guide the tube 
with the left hand, and force out the mixture by continuing the 
twisting, at the same time using pressure, with the right hand. 
To form a star, hold the bag in vertical position and press out a 



30 PRACTICAL COOKING AND SERVING 

sufficient quantity of the mixture. Separate the tube from the 
material by pressing the tube downward slightly and raising it 
quickly. For other designs hold the bag at otiier angles, between 
the vertical and a horizontal position. 

CARAMEL, FOR FLAVORING CUSTARDS, ETC. 

Stir the quantity of sugar needed in a small saucepan over the 
fire until the sugar melts. Stir constantly and pour as soon as 
melted into the liquid to be flavored. The hand must be protected 
while the liquids are combined, as on account of the intense heat 
of the caramel much steam wUl be generated. Remove the pan 
from the stove often, while the sugar is melting, to avoid over- 
heating. The caramel may also be poured on to an oiled marble 
slab, or a platter; when cooled a little remove, and when quite cold 
poimd fine in a mortar, then add to the hot liquid to be flavored. 

LINING A MOULD WITH CARAMEL 

Turn the liquid caramel into a charlotte russe, or other mould, 
then/using a holder, turn the mould round and round, letting the 
caramel run all over the inside of the mould. The mould must 
be handled quickly, as the caramel soon hardens. 

CARAMEL FOR COLORING SOUPS, ETC. 

Let the melted sugar cook until it is qmte dark, thea add an equal 
quantity of boiling water and let simmer a minute or two. Store 
in fruit jar or bottie. It will keep indefinitely and without sealing. 

BLANCHING ALMONDS, PISTACHIOS OR ENGLISH 
WALNUTS 

Cover the nuts with boiling water and let stand over the fire 
five or ten minutes, until the skin easily slips from the meat under 
the pressure of the fingers; then drain and keep covered with 
cold water, while the skms are being removed. Dry in the heater 
or open air. A small pointed knife will be needed to detach the 
skin from walnuts. The water about pistachio nuts needs to boil 
a moment or two, as the nuts do not blanch easily. 



ALMONDS, PREPARING LEMONS 31 

CHOPPED ALMONDS 

Chop when partly dry, and sift through a sieve; chop again what 
remains on the sieve and sift as before. 

SHREDDED ALMONDS 

Dry freshly peeled almonds in a cloth and cut at once into 
shreds, lengthwise. 

ALMOND MILK, FOR CURRIES, BLANC-MANQE, ETC. 

Poimd in a mortar half a pound of almonds, with a few spoonfuls 
of cold water, until the meats are reduced to a fine paste; dilute 
with a pint of milk, or water, and strain through a cheesecloth, 
pressing out all that will pass through. 

POUNDING ALMONDS 

Mix the almonds with white of egg, or liquid, and pound in the 
mortar. Or mix with sugar and put through a meat-cutter three 
or four times. After forcing the nuts through the chopper the 
first time, adjust the machine to cut, or crush, as fine as possible. 

SHELLING AND BLANCHING CHESTNUTS 

With a sharp-pointed knife slit each shell across one side. 
Cook one minute in boiling water, drain and let dry. Add a tea- 
spoonful of butter for each pint of nuts, and stir and shake over 
the fire, or in the oven three or four minutes; then remove the shell 
and skin together. Keep the nuts covered with a cloth, in the 
meantime, as they shell more easily when hot. 

PREPARING LEMONS FOR USE 

Wipe the lemons with a damp cloth without rubbing. If only 
the flavor or zest is called for, pare oS the thin yellow rind, remove 
every trace of white, and chop very fine. If a lemon grater be 
used, carefuUy avoid the bitter white skin. To keep lemons, wipe 
carefully, wrap each, separately, in clean, dry tissue paper and let 
stand in a draught of air. 



32 PRACTICAL COOKING AND SERVING 



PREPARING ANCHOVIES 

Rinse the anchovies in several waters (cold) to remove the salt, 
then let stand in cold water ten minutes or longer. Anchovies of 
inferior quality need to remain several hours in water. Milk 
may be used instead of water. With the fingers remove the fins 
from the back, and, holding the fish by the tail, pull into halves, 
discarding the backbone and rear fin. Then wipe or drain care- 
fully, and use according to recipes. 



FRINQINQ CELERY FOR A QARNISH 

Cut the stalks into pieces two inches long. Beginning on the 
round side and at one end, cut down half an inch, making as many 
thin slices as possible. Turn the stallc, and cut these slices, in the 
opposite direction, as thin as possible. Cut the opposite end in the 
same way. Set the pieces aside in very cold, acidulated water, and, 
in a short time, many of the shreds will curl over and meet in the 
centre of the stalk. 



TO GLAZE BREAD AND ROLLS 

J an oz. of cornstarch. i pint of boiling water. 

Mix the cornstarch with cold water and when smooth pour on 
the boiling water. Apply with a brush, when the bread is nearly 
baked, then return to the oven, to finish the baking, repeating the 
process once or twice. 

VISCOQEN (To thicken thin Cream) 

Dissolve five ounces (| cup and 2 tablespoonfuls) of sugar in ten 
ounces (i^ cups) of water. Add three quarters of a cup of cold water 
to two ounces of quick lune, and let it gradually slake; strain through 
a fine sieve; combine the two liquids, shake occasionally for two 
hours. After about three hours set aside to settle, then pour off 
the clear liquid. Store in small bottles with glass stoppers or half- 
pint fruit jars. Use one fourth of a teaspoonful of viscogen t» 
three fourths of a cup of chilled cream. 



CHAPTER V 

Cook's Time-Table. Tables of Proportions, Weights 
and Measures 

In preparing a meal it is quite essential to know accurately the 
time required for cooking the different viands, otherwise one dish 
may become cold, while the cook is waiting for the completion of 
another that is to accompany it. With the aid of an oven ther- 
mometer, or heat indicator, one can by actual experience soon 
learn almost to a certainty the length of time required to bake most 
articles. This is especially true in case of bread, pastry, cake, 
puddings, and custards, the ingredients of which may be considered 
as known quantities. More or less doubt exists in regard to the 
length of time required for the cooking of animal and vegetable 
substances; for with these tenderness, one of the most important 
things aimed at in the cooking, will depend upon variable condi- 
tions, as, in animal substances, age and habits of life, and in vege- 
tables upon age, soil, and season in which they are grown, and 
upon the length of time passed since they were gathered. 

In the tables given below, the minimum and maximum times are 
given in which die article is to be cooked at a suitable temperature. 
When articles of same weight vary in thickness, the thicker will 
require the longer period. The time depends not so much upon 
weight as upon the extent of surface presented to the heat. For 
instance, a long thin fish will require ten or fifteen minutes less time 
in baking than a short, thick middle cut of salmon of the same 
weight. As an aid to best results in baking, an oven thermometer, 
or "heat indicator," is of great value. The heat indicator shows 
the temperature of the oven, but to secure and keep this tem- 
perature, the condition of the fire-box, when coal or wood is used, 
must be studied with care. The matter is much more simple when 
gas or electricity is the fuel. When a dish is ready for the oven, 
though the index points to the proper temperature for the cooking 
of that dish, if the fire be spent — the coal showing by a white line 
near the edges that it has lost its vitality — the temperature will 



34 PRACTICAL COOKING AND SERVING 

fall rapidly, and the addition of coal will not help the matter before 
the article, be it cake, or some delicate confection, is utterly ruined. 
Then, too, if the fire be new and fierce, unless it be regulated with 
the nicest care, the heat is apt to become too severe. The indicator 
does not regulate the fire, but shows the condition of the oven as 
far as heat is concerned. But by Judgment and experience the 
exact temperature for the baking of each dish can be determined, 
and the regulation of the fire to maintain this temperature be 
secured. The figure gives a gen- 
eral idea of an oven thermometer, 
or heat indicator. 

For instance, when there is no 
fire in the range the hand points 
to 6. 

At the temperature suitable 
for putting bread into the oven 
the hand points to 12. After 
the first fifteen mintues the hand 
should move gradually backward 
halfway to three, where it should 
remain until the bread is baked. 
To sear over the outside of meat, or to cook wDd ducks and small 
birds the hand should point to about 9. After the first half-hoiur 
roasts like beef and mutton should cook with the index in the 
vicinity of 12, back of it rather than beyond it. Custards and 
articles poached in water below the boiling point need a temper- 
ature indicated at about 2. With a little experience one can bake 
different varieties of cake in succession in an oven whose heat is 
gauged to fit each case to a nicety. 

In this connection it may be noted that a coal fire is kept in good 
condition when it is so kept that it can be quickly regulated to 
meet the demands made upon it. Oftentimes, however, it is more 
economical, when a hot fire is wanted for a short time cmly, to keep 
the fire dormant, as it were, and use for the time being a gas or 
oil-range, and then transfer the article to the coal-range that has 
been kept at a moderate heat. But this is not always practicable. 

COOK'S TIME-TABLE 

ROASTING OR BAKING MEATS AND FISH 

Beef, ribs or loin, rare, per pound 8 to 10 minutes. 

Beef, ribs or loin, well done, per pound 12 to 16 minutei 




COOK'S TIME-TABLE 35 

Beef, ribs, rolled, rare, per pound la to 15 minutes. 

Beef, ribs, rolled, well done, per pound is to 15 minutes. 

Beef, fillet, rare 20 to 30 minutes. 

Mutton, leg, rare, per pound 10 minutes. . 

Mutton, leg, well done, per pound 14 minutes. 

Mutton, saddle, rare, without flank, per pound 9 minutes. 

Mutton, loin, rare, per pound g minutes. 

Mutton, forequarter, stuSed, per pound 15 to 25 minutes. 

Lamb, well done, per pound 15 to 18 minutes. 

Veal, well done, per pound i8 to 20 minutes. 

Pork, well done, per pound 20 minutes. 

Venison, rare, per pound 10 minutes. 

Chicken, per pound 15 or more minutes. 

Turkey, 8 to 10 pounds 3 hours. 

Goose, 8 to 10 pounds 2 hours, or more. 

Duck (domestic) i hour, or more. 

Duck (wild) IS to 30 minutes. 

Grouse about 30 minutes. 

Small Birds 15 to 20 minutes. 

Pigeons (potted, or en casserole) 2 to 4 hours. 

Ham 4to6 houis. 

Fish, whole, as bluefish, salmon, etc ■; i hour, or more. 

Small fish and fillets 20 to 30 minutes. 

Baked beans with pork 6 to 8 hours 

BROILING 

Steak, I inch thick 4 to 10 minutes. 

Steak, i| inches thick 8 to 15 minutes. 

Lamb, or Mutton Chops 6 to 10 minutes. 

Quails 8 to 10 minutes. 

Quails in paper cases 10 to 12 minutes. 

Squabs .- ip to 12 minutes. 

Spring Chicken 20 minutes. 

Shad, bluefish, etc iS to 30 minutes. 

Slices of fish 12 to 15 minutes. 

Small Fish, trout, etc S to 12 minutes. 

FRYING 

Whitebait, croquettes, fish-balls i minute. 

MuflSns, fritters and doughnuts 3 to 5 minutes. 

Breaded Chops 5 to 8 minutes. 



36 PRACTICAL COOKING AND SERVING 

Fillets of Fish 4 to 6 minutes. 

Smelts, brook trout, etc 3 to s minutes. 

BOILING MEAT AND FISH 

Fresh Beef 4 to 6 hours. 

Corned Beef (rib, or flank) , 4 to 7 hours. 

Corned Beef, fancy brisket S to 8 hours. 

Corned Tongue 3 to 4 hours. 

Leg, or Shoulder of Mutton 3i to s hours. 

Leg, or Shoulder of Lamb 2 to 3 hours. 

Turkey, per poimd 15 to 18 minutes. 

Fowl, 4 to s pounds 2 to 4 hours. 

Chicken, 3 pounds i to i| hours. 

Ham 4 to 6 hours. 

Lobster 25 to 30 minutes. 

Codfish and haddock, per pound 6 minutes. 

Halibut, whole, or thick piece, per pound 15 minutes. 

Bluefish, bass, etc., per pound 10 minutes. 

Salmon, whole, or thick cut 10 to 15 minutes. 

Small fish 6 to 8 minutes. 

Clams and oysters 3 to S minutes. 

Braised Meats : 3 to s hours. 

BOILING OF VEGETABLES, COFFEE, ETC. 

Asparagus 20 to 25 minutes. 

Beans, string, or shell it02 hours. 

Beets, new 45 minutes to i hour. 

Beets, old 4 to 6 hours. 

Beet Greens i hour, or longet. 

Brussels Sprouts 15 to 20 minutes. 

Cabbage 30 to 80 minutes. 

Carrots 1 hour, or longer. 

Cauliflower 20 to 30 minutes. 

Celery 2 hours, or longer. 

Corn , 10 to 20 minutes. 

Macaroni 20 to 60 minutes. 

Onions 45 minutes to 2 hours. 

Oyster Plant 45 to 60 minutes. 

Parsnips 30 to 45 minutes. 

Peas 20 to 60 minutes. 

Potatoes, white 20 to 30 minutes. 

Potatoes, sweet iS to 25 minutes. 



COOK'S TIME-TABLE 37 

Rice 20 to 30 minutes. 

Squash 30 to 30 minutes. 

Spinach 15 to 20 minutes. 

Tomatoes, stewed 15 to 20 minutes. 

Turnips .30 to 45 minutes. 

Coffee 3 to s minutes. 

BAKING OF BSEAD, CAKE, CUSTARDS AND PUDDINGS 

Loaf Bread 40 to 60 minutes. 

Rolls, biscuit 10 to 30 minutes. 

Mtiffins, yeast about 30 minutes. 

Muffins, baking-powder 20 to 25 minutes. 

Sponge Cake, loaf 45 to 60 minutes. 

Plain Loaf Cake 30 to 90 minutes. 

Layer Cake 15 to 20 minutes. 

Fruit Cake 2 or 3 hours. 

Small Cakes iS to 25 minutes. 

Custards 20 minutes to i hour. 

Steamed Brown-Bread 3 hours. 

Steamed Puddings i to 3 hours. 

Pie Crust 3° to 45 minutes. 

Potatoes 30 to 4S minutes. 

Scalloped and au Gratin Dishes 10 to 2oniinutes. 

Timbales about 20 minutes. 

TABLE OF PROPORTIONS 

I measure of liquid to i measure of flour for pour batters. 

I ineasure of liquid to 2 measures of flour for drop batters. 

I measure of liquid to 3 measures of flour for dough. 

I to 2 or more cakes of compressed yeast softened in | cup of water to i pint 

of liquid. 
\ cup of liquid yeast to i pint of liquid. 

1 level teaspoonful of soda and two slightly rounding leaspoonfuls of cream of 

tartar to one quart of flour. 

2 teaspooiifuls of baking-powder to i cup of flour. 
I teaspoonful of soda to i pint of thick sour milk. 
I teaspoonful of soda to i cup of molasses. 

\ teaspoonful of salt to i quart of milk for custards. 

I teaspoonful of salt to 1 cup, or i teaspoonful to i quart of sauce, or soup. 

\ teaspoonful of salt to i pint of flour. 

I teaspoonful of flavoring extract for a plain cake. 



38 PRACTICAL COOKING AND SERVING 

I teaspoonful of flavoring extract to i quart of custard, or cream. 

I tablespoonful of flavoring extract to i quart of mixture to be frozen. 

f cup, or less of sugar to a quart of milk for custards, etc. 

I cup of sugar to i quart of milk or cream for cream ice. 

I cup of sugar for each dozen of yolks used in cream ice. 

4 eggs to I quart of milk for plain cup custard. 

6 to 8 eggs to I quart of milk for moulded custards. 

i package, or half an ounce of gelatine to scant pint of liquid. 

3 cups of water, more of milk, or stock, to i cup of rice. 

1 ounce (2 tablespoonfuls) of butter, | ounce (2 tablespoonfuls of flour) to i cup 

of liquid for sauce. 
I ounce (2 tablespoonfuls) of butter, ^ ounce (2 tablespoonfuls) of flour to x 

pint of liquid for soups. 

1 cup of cooked meat, or fish cut in cubes to |, or 1 whole cup of sauce. 
Meat from 3I pound chicken equals about i pint, or i pound. 

TABLES OF WEIGHTS AND MEASURES 

3 teaspoonfuls of liquid equal i tablespoonful. 

3 tablespoonfuls of liquid " ^ gill, or J cup. 

4 cup equals i gill. 

2 gills equal i cup. 

2 cups " I pint. 

2 pints (4 cups) " 1 quart. 

4 cups of liquid " 1 quart. 

4cupsofflour " 1 pound, or I quart. 

2 cups of butter, solid " j pound. 

1 cup of butter, solid equals J pound, 4 oz. 

2 cups of granulated sugar equal i pound. 

2| cups of powdered sugar " i pound. 

I pint of milk, or water equals i pound. 

1 pint of chopped meat (solid) " i pound. 

10 fggs (without shells) equal 1 pound. 

8 eggs, with shells " i pound. 

2 tablespoonfuls of butter " j ounce. 

4 tablespoonfuls of butter " 2 ounces, or } cup. 

2 tablespoonfuls of granulated sugar " i ounce. 

4 tablespoonfuls of flour " i ounce. 

4 tablespoonfuls of coffee " i ounce 

I tablespoonful of liquid " J ounce! 



PART II 

CHAPTER I 
Beverages 

"Water, water everywhere, nor any drop to drink." 

— Ancient Mariner, Colebsidgi. 

"O Mirth and Innocence! O Milk and Water 1 
Ye Jiappy mixture of more happy days!" 

— Byron. 

WATER 

Water is that which slakes thirst and replaces the fluid loss of 
the body (Hoy) ; while food is that which replaces the solid loss of 
the bodyj While water and food would seem to be two separate 
and distinct compounds, water, in reality, is one of the largest (in 
amount) components in food and is rightfully classed as one of the 
Five Food Principles. The primal office of water is the slaking of 
thirst: thirst is the outward and visible sign that water is needed 
to carry on the functions of the body, to eliminate waste and to 
carry nutritive material where it is needed. By its evaporation 
on lie surface water also regulates the temperattire of the body. 
It is often said that those who drink water freely take on flesh. 
Water is not a nutrient, though it enters into the composition of 
every bodily tissue, but when water is imbibed freely and at the 
proper time the functions of elimination and nutrition are gen- 
eraUy well carried out, and a condition of health is noted. Those 
who drink little water are liable to the formation of waste products 
faster than they are removed. Four pints of water are required 
daily by the average adult, less than one third of which is supplied 
in food. Many an individual who rises in a languid state in the 
morning need seek for no other relief than in a glass of water on 
retiring at night. This washes the waste products into the proper 
eliminating channels and insures a fresh and vigorous condition of 

39 



40 PRACTICAL COOKING AND SERVING 

body in the morning. The remedial effects of hot water are well 
known. Water, either hot or cold, preferably hot, is also of advan- 
tage, if it be taken upon rising, or at least an hour before eating; 
thus taken it washes out the stomach, and prepares it to receive 
food. Taken just at the meal time, before the lining of the stom- 
ach has time to absorb it, digestion is impeded by the weakening 
of the digestive fluids. 

PURE DRINKING WATER ESSENTIAL 

Water is a solvent as well as a carrier, and in this fact much 
danger lies. In its passage over or through the earth water may 
take up organic and inorganic matter that is detrimental to health, 
as when it comes in contact with sewage, which is liable to contain 
germs of disease. Often then this question of drinking-water is 
the hinge on which the whole subject of health turns. Whatever 
a family, or an institution, has become habituated to is taken for 
granted to be all right; but in the country, where sewers are un- 
known, the nearness of a cesspool or the stable yard is a constant 
menace to health. Indeed, in some soils, contiguity plays but a 
small part in the matter, for a well often drains a larger surface 
than is generally realized. 

A deep well, properly situated, where the rainfall, carrying or- 
ganic matter, must be filtered through earth and stone to reach 
its level, would seem to offer a water that one might drink with 
safety; but this is a subject that must be given more than passing 
attention. Who would willingly take the chances of a water- 
borne typhoid case, or the listless inertia of malarial poisoning, as 
the result of a summer's outing. City water taken from pure 
sources and filtered through sand-beds should be reasonably pure. 
When doubt as to its purity exists, boiling is the remedy, since 
almost all germs of disease that are likely to be found in water are 
killed by the application of heat at the boiling point. Filters for 
home use need the most exact and painstaking attention daily, or 
the water passing through them is made more impure. Water 
from the hot-water faucet, be it needless to add, is not suitable 
for drinking or cooking purposes. 

TEA 

"Indeed, Madam, your ladyship is veiy sparing o£ your tea: I protest the 
last I took^was no more than water bewitched." — Swift. 



TEA AND TEA MAKING 41 

COMPOSITION OF AVERAGE BLACK TEA (cHURCh) 

In 100 parts there are: water 8.0, albuminoids 17.5, theine 3.4, tannin 17.5 
chlorophyl and resin 4.5, essential oil 0.4, minor extractives 8.6, cellulose, etc. 
34.0, mineral matter 6.3. 

A cup of tea infusion has little or no nutritive value, but it in- 
creases respiratory action and incites the brain to greater activity. 
The stimulating effects of tea upon the nervous system are due to 
the essential oil and theine: the tannin produces astringency. Tea 
was at first used medicinally, and was not indulged in as a bever- 
age until the close of the seventeenth century. "The first brewers 
of tea sat down to eat the leaves with butter and salt." The only 
tea-gardens in the United States are at Pinehurst, S. C. Here tea 
culture is successfully carried on. The tea is shipped in closely 
sealed gilt-colored tin boxes containing pounds, or fractions there- 
of. Black and green teas are made from the same plants, but each 
is cured by a different process. Gunpowder is the name given to 
the finest green tea, pekoe to the finest black, both being made 
from the "first pickings." In picking tea for these varieties only 
the tips of the short and tender leaves are taken. Flowery pekoe 
is made entirely from the unexpanded leaf bud, so young as to be 
entirely covered with down. If the first expanded leaf be included, 
it makes first and second "Souchong." 

Tea is for those who have passed the boundary line of youth, 
stimulants are not needed by the yoimg, and are positively harmful 
to them. Rightfully prepared and used, both tea a.ad coffee, on 
account of the sense of cornfort ajid the mildly exhilarating influence 
which they impart, may be considered beneficial to the race. Im- 
properly made and drank to excess, they are one of the chief sources 
of many of the minor and chronic ills of mankind. 

The essential oil and theine of tea are the desirable elements; 
the tannin which by hardening albumen interferes witJb the process 
of digestion, and which is also an astringent, is to be avoided. The 
one is avoided and the other secured by the manner in which tea 
is made. 

MAKING TEA 

Fresh-drawn filtered water, just at the boiling point, is the first 
item needful when a cup of tea is desired; the second item is a 
clean, dry heated teapot, preferably of chinaware. Never leave 
the' tea leaves and the liquid left over in the teapot for a cup of tea mid- 
way between meak. Never drink lk(uid that has stood longer than 



42 PRACTICAL COOKING AND SERVING 

five or six minutes upon tea leaves. At the first bubbling of the 
water rinse the teapot, already clean, and let stand a moment on 
the hot stove to dry; put in the tea leaves and pour over the now 
furiously bubbling water; put on the cover and let stand five min- 
utes on the hot range without boiling. If made at the table, coyer 
the pot with the "cosey." After standing five minutes the flavor 
of the tea is impaired. 

PROPORTIONS OF TEA 

A teaspoonful of tea to a cup of water is considered a fair pro- 
portion; this gives too strong a cup for some and not strong enough 
for otfiers. When strength is desired, secure it by adding tea, and 
not by longer steeping. 

ACCOMPANIMENTS TO TEA 

If one be fond of the genuine flavor of tea nothing will be added 
to the infusion. The addition of cream and sugar is an English 
custom; that of slices of lemon, or lemon juice is a Russian usage, 
while candied cherries in tea is an American innovation. 

TEA FOR LARGE COMPANIES 

Put the tea leaves, inclosed in a sheer muslin bag, iiito the clean 
and scalded pot and add boiling water to make a strong infusion. 
Let stand five minutes, then remove the bag. Dilute to taste 
with water at the boiling point. 

ICED TEA 

Make the tea of rather more strength than ordinary, that is, 
use a larger proportion of tea to water than when the tea is to be 
served hot; pour from the leaves, after standing the usual five 
minutes, directly upon the cracked ice in the glasses. Or, makie 
the tea of the usual strength and tiu-n from the leaves Into a fruit 
jar and let stand on the ice until thoroughly chilled. 

THE TEA BALL 

When tea is to be made for the afternoon caller a cup or two at 
a time, the silver tea ball, or the later teaspoon, which is used in 



TEA AND TEA MAKING 43 

the same manner as the "ball," is very convenient. The baU, or 
spoon, holding the tea is placed in the cup; freshly boiling water 
is poured in s^nd the ball or spoon is removed when the color in- 
dicates that the infusion is sufficiently strong. 

DELICIOUS CUP OF TEA (DR. SHEPARD, PINEHURST, S. C.) 

Select a porcelain cup that is white inside, so as to show the 
color of the tea Uquor. Warm the dry cup and saucer until rather 
uncomfortable to hold. Put in the cup a half to one teaspoonful 
(according to taste) of "Pinehurst" green tea, and cover it with a 
saucer and a cosey, if handy, for a few minutes. Having quickly 
brought freshly (hrawn water to boiling, fill the cup and cover it 
with the saucer and cosey for three minutes. 

Then, without stirring or adding anything, drink only the upper 
half, or two thirds of the tea liquor. 

COFFEE 

"Sabean odours from the spicy shore 
Of Arabia the blest." 

COMPOSITION OF ROASTED COFFEE (CHDBCH) 

In 100 parts there are: water 2.0, albuminoids 12.5, caffeine i.o, fat or oil 
12.5, tannin 5.0, minor extractives 14.4, cellulose, etc., 4S.0, mineral matter 4.6. 

The coffee plant, it is said, was introduced into /Arabia in the 
fifteenth century, but it was not until 1652 that the first coffee- 
shop was opened in London. Napoleon, like Voltaire, was as 
excessivdy fond of coffee as Boswell informs us the great Dr. 
Johnson was of Mrs. Thrale's cup of tea. 

Drimk in moderation, without cream and sugar, coffee is a mild 
stimulant to gastric digestion, hence after-dinner, or black coffee. 
Coffee also possesses a distinctly laxative effect. 

In most households a cup of coffee is considered the one thing 
needful at the breakfast hour. But how often this exhilarating 
beverage, that "comforteth the brain and heart and helpeth diges- 
tion " is made muddy and ill-flavored ! To-day, although we really 
have less to do than our foremothers, the individual housekeeper 
scarcely ever takes the time to roast her own coffee. The operation 
k a rather nice one, simply because it requires attention. 
[^ The object in roasting is to bring out the naturally deUcate arom» 



44 PRACTICAL COOKING AND SERVING 

of the coffee-bean; and the aroma, once developed, is to be retained. 
The French are said to accomplish this perfectly by adding to 
every three pounds of roasting berries a tablespoonful, each, of 
butter and powdered sugar. These, in melting, spread over the. 
beans in a thin coating, and so confine the volatile aroma. The 
browned sugar also gives to the coffee a slight flavor of caramel, 
which is much prized by the French. 

In the absence of a revolving drum, a thick iron frying pan is 
probably the best utensil for roasting coffee-berries. In whole- 
sale stores, where the coffee-berry is roasted, groimd, and trans- 
formed into amber-colored Uquid to be tested by the buyer, a small 
quantity is quickly roasted in an ordinary corn-popper. After 
roasting, the berries, whether ground, or unground, must be set 
aside in an airf tight receptacle. This is essential, for two reasMis: 
to hold within the aroma of the coffee, and to keep out the exhala- 
tions from other substances. Indeed, on account of the facility 
with which coffee appropriates imdesirable flavors, the whole 
process, from the roasting to the serving, must be guarded. 

You may roast the berries "to the queen's taste," and grind 
them fresh every morning, and yet, if the golden liquid be not 
prepared in the most immaculate of coffee-pots, with each return 
of morning a new disappointment awaits you. 

Now, it is not meant that one need possess a shining silver, or 
even a nickel-plated, coffee-pot, but the vessel that does serve as 
a coffee-pot must be kept nearly, if not quite, as clean as the 
"plates" for a "pure culture of germs." In cleaning a coffee-pot, 
only fresh water and a doth kept specially for the purpose should 
be used. Never set the coffee-pot aside with coffee in it. Occa- 
sionally cleanse by boiling in it a solution of sal-soda. 

There is another point upon which at least one author lays much 
stress. Brillat-Savarin, in his "Physiology of Taste," says: "The 
Turks do not use a mill to grind the coffee. They break it up in 
mortars with wooden pestles." He also adds that, after carefully 
ejcperimentmg with iJie ground and the powdered coffee, and 
solidting experts to test the two decoctions, the imanimous opinion 
of himsdf and friends was that "the coffee made with the pounded 
berry was evidently superior to that made with the ground powder." 

BOILED COFFEE 

In a coffee-pot that has been well-aired and well-scalded put twice 
as many level tablespoonfuls of ground coffee as there are cups to 




UTENSILS FOR BEATING EGGS 
Flat beaters, confectioner's whisk, Dover egg beater. 




PASTRY BAGS AND TUBES 
Pastry bag with threaded ring, copper tubes tin tubes. 




DOUBLE CREAM BEATEN SOLID WITH EGG BEATER 
Whip churn and frothed cream 




DUNLAP BEATER lOR WHIPPING CREAM 
QUICKLY AND WITHOUT SPATTERING 



COFFEE AND COFFEE MAIONG 45 

be served; add as many egg-shells, washed before the eggs were 
broken, as there are cups to be served; or the white of an egg may 
be used, that of one egg being sufficient to clear about seven 
tablespoonfuls of ground coffee. Add a tablespoonful of cold 
water for each cup of liquid desired, and mix thoroughly; add the 
requisite number of cups of freshly boiling water and let boU five 
minutes after boiling begins. Pour a little cold water — from a 
quarter to half a cup — down the spout, stir in one tablespoonful 
of fresh coffee, and set the pot where it will simmer fifteen minutes. 
The quick bringing to a boil is what gives the bright, fresh flavor. 
The long simmering gives the mellowness. For the first reason, 
we make it with the hottest water possible. Just as good coffee 
can be made with cold water, if you have, as on a picnic, a hot flame 
and wide-bottomed, shallow receptacle for the coffee. But made 
in the ordinary cylindrical coffee-pot, over the ordinary heat of 
the stove, you will have "dead" coffee, if a cold or lukewarm mix- 
tiure works its slow way to a boiling point. And it wiQ have a 
"sharp" taste, if not given the proper amount of simmering. 

FILTERED COFFEE 

After-diimer, or black coffee, is usually made in a "drip" coffee- 
pot, in which the boiling water drips through the fine-ground coffee 
that is held in a filter. To prepare : put a cup of fine-groimd coffee 
in the filter, or strainer, of the coffee-pot, and set the pot in a dish 
of boiling water, if the means of keeping the liquid hot be not other- 
wise provided; pom: into the strainer a quart of water, freshly drawn 
and heated just to the boiling point; after the water filters through 
the coffee into the lower receptacle, pour off and return a second, 
and, sometimes, a third time to the filter. When the infusion is 
of the required strength, pour from the receptacle into a hot coffee- 
pot, and serve without delay, preferably without cream or sugar. 

COCOA AND CHOCOLATE 

AVEKAGE COMPOSITION OF COCOA AND CHOCOLATE AS 
PURCHASED (aTWATEK) 

Water Protein Fat Carboliydrates Ash Food Value 

Per Cent. Per Cent. Per Cent. Per Cent. Per Cent. Per lb. Calone* 



Cocoa .... : 


....4.6 


31.6 


28.9 


37-3 


7.2 


2.390 


Chocolate . . . 


■■■S-9 


12.9 


48.7 


30.3 


2. a 


2.860 



46 PRACTICAL COOKING AND SERVING 

In dealing with tea and coffee we are considering articles that 
in themselves, as we use them, have absolutely no food value, 
articles that are prized by us simply on account of their stimulating 
qualities, but in all preparations made from cocoa-beans, or seeds, 
the beans themselves, in a prepared state, are consumed with the 
beverage, and analysis shows that the liquid is not only a beveragej 
but also a food of high nutritive value. It is on this account that 
a cup of cocoa or chocolate is a substantial addition to a light 
meal, as is the breakfast or luncheon quite often. 

Cocoa'is classed with tea and coffee because of its alkaloid prin- 
ciple, bromine, which, though milder and less stimulating, corre- 
sponds to the caffeine of coffee and the theine of tea. Cocoa-beans, 
like those of the coffee-shrub, are roasted before being ground or 
broken, and the process, as in roasting coffee, changes the starch 
in the seeds to dextrine. 

In the process of transforming the cocoa-beans into the cocoa 
of commerce, other changes are also made: the woody fibre and 
other insoluble matters, and a portion of the fat are removed, and 
starch and sugar are added, to change stDl more the proportion 
of fat to the other ingredients. Chocolate differs from many prep- 
arations of cocoa, in that less of the cocoa butter is removed, 
which necessitates the addition of a greater proportion of starch. 
And this in turn calls for cooking. When the excess of butter is 
obviated by some other means than the use of starch, then simply 
adding boiUng water or milk to the preparation will suffice. Choc- 
olate differs still further from cocoa, in that, crushed by heated 
rollers, the ingredients form a paste which may be pressed into 
moulds. Chocolate is often flavored; cinnamon, cloves, musk, and 
vanilla are used for this purpose. 

COCOA TO SERVE 125 

Use one pound of cocoa, five pounds granulated sugar, three and 
one half quarts boiling water and two ounces vanilla. Put haJf the 
water in a double-boiler, add the cocoa and let stand imdisturbed 
until the cocoa is moistened; stir, add the rest of the water and 
stir again. Let cook one hour. Add the sugar, stir, tiien cook half 
an hour. When cold add the vanilla and strain through a cheese- 
cloth. Serve at once or set aside in cans. To serve two, divide 
one fourth of a cup of syrup between two cups, pour three fourths 
of a cup of hot milk into each. 



eocoA Amy chocolate 47 

BREAKFAST COCOA 

3 cups of scalded milk. 2 tablespoonfuls of cocoa powder. 
t cups of boiling water. 2 tablespoonfuls of sugar. 

Scald the milk in a double-boiler; mix the sugar and cocoa, stir 
in the boiling water, gradually, and let boil five or six minutes; 
turn the liquid into the hot milk, and beat with a whisk, or egg- 
beater, five minutes. Serve with additional sugar and cream, if 
desired. 

CHOCOLATE 

2 ounces of chocolate. i cup of boiling water. 

4 tablespoonfuls of sugar. 3 cups of scalded milk. 

Break the chocolate into pieces and melt over hot water; add the 
sugar and boiling water, and stir until smooth and glossy; let cook 
five or six minutes; add part of the milk, and when well mixed 
pour into the rest of the milk; let stand over the fire five or six 
minutes, beating meanwhile with a whisk or egg-beater, to make 
frothy and prevent a skin from forming on the surface. 

CREAM AND FLAVORINQ 

On occasion a flavoring of vanilla, or cinnamon, one or both, is 
a pleasing addition to a pot of cocoa, or chocolate. If cinnamon 
bark be used, let it steep in the milk while scalding the latter. 
Add groimd cinnamon to the sugar and cocoa powder, or to the 
melted chocolate. Whipped or frothed cream may be added to 
the liquid just before removing from the fire, and also to each cup 
as it is served. 

MILK 

CHEMICAL COMPOSITION OF WHOLE MILK (AXWATEE) 
Water 87.3, protein 3.3, fat 4.0, carbohydrates .5, ash .7, calories '325. 

Milk, though classed as a beverage, is in reality a food; and 
when it is us^ as a part of a meal &e quantity of food ingested 
should be diminished accordingly. Milk is a perfect food for the 
young of all milk-giving animds, but on account of the large pro- 
portion of water in composition it is not so well adapted to the 
needs of. the adult. Too much liquid would be taken in the effort 
to secure a proper amount of the needful food elements. Or, in 
other words, taken alone, milk is not a well-balanced food. The 
protein is represented by albumen and casein, the carbohydrates 



4S PRACTICAL COOKING AND SERVING 

by TpiHt sugar. When milk is taken into the stomach, rennin, a 
digestive ferment found in the gastric juice, coagulates the 
albvunen and casein, thus forming what is called curds. If cow's 
milk be taken into the stomach, a glassful at a time, these curds 
will be large and not easily acted upon by the digestive fluids. 
To remedy this, milk shoxild be "eaten" — that is, swallowed a 
teaspoonf ul at a time, or it may be diluted with lime-water, though 
barley-water is preferable. (See page 599.) Lime-water by its 
alkalinity partly neutralizes the acid of the gastric juice, and thus 
weakened the curdling process goes on more slowly. But such 
interference with the natural process of digestion cannot be rec- 
ommended. Eat the milk, or dilute it with barley-water, or, in 
the case of adults, sip the milk slowly, eating between the sips bread 
or some other form of farinaceous food. Adults living on milk 
have no color, the Tnillr being without iron in composition. In- 
fants have iron stored in the liver that supplies the system for a 
time. 

CREAM AND SKIMMED MILK 

Fimdamentally, in structure, milk is an emulaon consisting of 
fine oil globules swimming in a colorless fluid. These oil globules 
are caUeid cream, milk fat, or butter, and are the most easily di- 
gested of all fats. Cream skimmed by hand from milk contains 
almost all the fat present in the milk — for, being lighter than the 
other constituents, it rises to the surface — and also a small pro- 
portion of the casein. The skimmed milk contains most of the 
casein, albumen, and milk-sugar, with the water, and though it 
contains a large proportion of water, it is still nutritioiis. In large 
institutions, hospitals, schools, etc., whole milk rather than cream 
should be purchased, since the skimmed milk can be used to in- 
crease the nutritive value of many a dish. In buying cream, the 
cost of the milk from which the cream was taken is included. 

CARE OF MILK 

Milk readily absorbs odors, flavors and impuiiti«; it is one of 
the best of soils for the growth and multiplication of certain dis- 
ease germs. Bacteria are introduced from dust arising from the 
cow's body, from the clothing or hands of the milker, from the 
milk vessels, or from the water in which these have been washed. 
The bacteria of typhoid fever, diphtheria and tuberculosis may be 
transmitted in this way. Once adinitted to the milk, they begin 



MILK 49 

to multiply: warmth is favorable to their growth, hence it is de- 
sirable to cool milk soon after it is drawn and to keep it at as low 
a temperature as possible. The souring of milk in a thunder- 
storm is due, not to the storm, but to the warm sultry weather 
preceding, which is favorable to the growth of bacteria. If kept 
thoroughly chilled milk is not affected by storms. Besides being 
kept cool, milk that is delivered in bottles and stored in refriger^ 
ators with other food should be tightly sealed. If the bottles are 
to be opened several times and the caps cannot be replaced, close 
the neck of the bottle with cotton. Since most disease germs are 
destroyed by heat, at the temperature of boiling water, milk may 
be made free from all living organisms — such mUk is said to be 
sterile. 

SCALDING MILK 

The digestibility of albumen in milk, as in all other substances, 
is diminished when it is heated to the boiling point; on this ac- 
count in cookery milk is scalded rather than boiled. This is done 
best in a double-boiler. The milk is scalded, when small bubbles 
appear on the surface next to the vessel. The temperatiu-e is 
about i6o° Fahr. If put directly over the fire and left, milk is 
liable to boil over. MUk contains so much soUd matter that, in 
boiling, the bubbles below are of such consistency that they hold 
up those above, or bubbles are piled up on bubbles until the dish 
overflows. 

STERILIZED MILK 

Milk is sterilized by heating to a temperature of 212° Fahr., 
and keeping at that temperature about thirty minutes, some say 
an hour and a half. To remain either pasteurized or sterihzed, 
milk must be kept seciure from contact .with outside germs. 

PASTEURIZED MILK 

Sterilized milk does not nourish or agree with those who take it 
as does fresh milk; the albumen is made indigestible by the high 
degree of heat, hence pasteturization (from the bacteriologist 
Pasteur) is regarded as preferable. Pasteurized milk has been 
freed from aU harmful bacteria temporarily. Milk is pasteurized 
by heating it to a temperature between 140° and 167° Fahr.> and 
keeping it at that temperature for about thirty minutes. At this 
comparatively low degree of temperature milk remains practically 
fresh and uncooked. 



so PRACTICAL COOKING AND SERVING 

TO PASTEURIZE MILK 

Put the milk into glass fruit jars, adjust the covers, but do not 
turn them down; set the jars on the rack in a steam kettle (alumi- 
num ware is good for this purpose, because it holds the heat), 
and fill the kettle with water to the height of the milk in the jar. 
Heat the water until the thermometer in the water-bath registers 
171° Fahr. The temperature of the milk will be several degrees 
lower. Keep the kettle covered'. Now remove the kettle to a 
place where the water will remain at this temperature. Put t^o 
stove-lids under the kettle, or remove to a table and throw over it 
a heavy comfortable — cotton wadding is a non-conductor of heat 
— and allow it to stand thus for half an hoiu-. Now cool as quickly 
as possible, but gradually at first, or the bottles will break; then set 
away the jars in a cool place. The double-boiler may be used, but 
the steam kettle is more convenient for the use of the thermometer, 
and the glass jars are proper vessels in which to store milk. If a 
double-boiler be used, let it be a large one, so that the water in the 
bath may rise to the level of the rrulk. 

TO PASTEURIZE MILK WITHOUT A THERMOMETER 

For this is needed some sort of a utensil having a rack to hold 
the cans, or bottles up out of the water. The ordinary steam 
kettle answers this purpose, but any saucepan of suJEcient height, 
in which a rack can be fitted, is satisfactory. Pour water into 
the bottom of the pan below the rack of bottles and let boil twenty 
minutes after boiling begins. The steam surrounding the bottles, 
or jars of milk, heats them. Cool as quickly as possible; after a 
little while they may be set into a pail of cold water. Cover the 
jars, or close the bottles with cotton wadding, before heating the 
milk. 

KOUMISS 

I quart of fresh milk. i tablespoonful of brewer's yeast 
if tablespoonfuls of sugar, or (fresh), or 

better J cake of compressed 
I tablespoonful of syrup at 35° S. yeast softened in 1 tablespoonful 

gauge. of lukewarm water. 

Heat the milk to a temperature of 100° Fahr. ; add the sweetening 
and yeast, and stir until thoroughly mixed, then txim into bottles 
that can be tightly corked. Let the bottles be filled to within about 
two inches of their full height. Cork and tie in tie corks securely. 



EGG-NOGGS 51 

Let stand at a temperature between 60° and 70" Fahr. ten hours. 
Chill before usmg. A tap for drawing the koumiss insures against 
the loss of much of the contents of each bottle. 

EQQ-NOQQ 

12 eggs. I quart of milk. 

24 (level) tablespoonfuls of pow- 6 wine-glasses of Jamaica Rum 
dered sugar. 6 wine-glasses of brandy. 

Beat the whites and yolks of the eggs separately. When the 
yolks are light add the sugar by spoonfiJds, continuing to beat until 
the mixture is very light. Then add the liquor, the brandy first, 
the first two glasses, drop by drop, and the rest gently; then add 
the milk and turn into a pimch-bowl; stir in part of the stifl-beaten 
whites of the eggs and let the rest look like a white foam on the 
top of the liquid. This is improved by standing a few hours in a 
cool place. 

EQa-NOQG, BALTIMORE STYLE (ADOLPHE MEYER) 

Beat the yolks of three eggs and one fourth a nutmeg grated, 
with two oimces of powdered sugar, to the consistency of cream; 
add, pouring in quietly the while, half a gill of brandy or rum and 
one glass of Marsala or brown sherry; add the whites of the eggs 
beaten to a stiff broth, and, when weU incorporated, a gill of cream 
and a pint of milk. 

FRUIT DRINKS 
LEMONADE (ONE GLASS) 

Mix the juice of half a lemon and two or three teaspoonfuls of 
sugar (sugar-syrup is better if at hand) ; mix imtil the sugar is dis- 
solved, then fill with cold water. 

LEMONADE 

I quart of syrup at 3S°S. 2 quarts of water. 

6 lemons, juice and yellow rind. 

Pour the hot syrup over the yellow rinds of the lemon, from 
which every particle of the white portion has been removed, and 
let stand imtil cold. If the flavor be desired less strong, use the 
syrup cold, or less of the yellow rind. Add the juice to the water 
and mix with the cold syrup. All fruit juice, except, perhaps, 
pineapple, currant, and grape, is more agreeable, if uncooked. Let 
the lemonade stand on the ice in a closed jar two hours before 
serving. 



Ss PRACTICAL COOKING AND SERVING 

ORANGEADE 

I quart of syrup at 3S°S. 3 lemons, Juice only. 

6 oranges, juice and yellow rind. 2 quarts of water. 

Prepare as lemonade. 

CURRANTADE 

1 quart of red currants. i quart of syrup at ss'S. 
J pint of raspberries. 2 quarts of water. 

1 lemon, juice only. 

Crush the currants and raspberries, add the water and filter the 
whole through a jelly-bag. Add the syrup, cold, to the filtered 
juice, tiun into jars, close tightly, and let stand on the ice two hours 
before serving. One quart of water and one pint of sugar boiled 
rapidly twenty minutes gives about one pint of syrup at about 
35 on the syrup gauge. 

PINEAPPLE LEMONADE 

2 cups of sugar. The juice of 3 or 4 lemons. 
I pint of water. A grated pineapple. 

I quart of water (about). 

Boil the sugar and pint of water ten minutes; let cool, and add 
the lemon juice, and tiie pineapple; let stand two hours, add the 
quart of water (charged water preferred) and serve at once. 

STRAWBERRYADE 

1 quart of syrup at 35° (syrup gauge) Juice of 3 lemons. 
I pint of strawberry juice. 2 quarts of water. 

Mash the berries, add the lemon juice, and strain into the cold 
syrup; add to the water, and proceed as in lemonade. Additional 
water will be needed in this and the other similar beverages. 
FRUIT PUNCH 

I pineapple, or i quart of strawberry, currant, or 

J can of grated pineapple. grape juice. 

3 cups of boiling water. i bottle of charged ApoUinaris water. 
I cup of tea freshly made. i quart of sugar, or better 3 cups of 
The juice of 6 lemons. syrup at 35°. 

The juice of 10 oranges. 4 quarts of water. 

Grate the pineapple, and boil with the water twenty minutes, 
or longer, then strain through a jelly-bag, pressing out aU the juice; 




STUFFED EGGS FOR PICNICS. (See page 6i., 




EGG OR EASTER CROQUETTES. (See page 60.) 




POACHED EGGS WITH SPINACH A LA CREME. 
;See page 64.) 



FRUIT BEVERAGES 53 

let cool and add the rest of the fruit juice, the tea and the syrup. 
If sugar be used, add a pint of water to the sugar and let boil six 
or eight minutes; cool before using. Add the Apollinaris water 
just before serving. It is better to make the punch a few hoiurs 
before the time of serving, then let stand, closely covered, on ice 
to chill and ripen. Then, when ready to serve, add the water and 
the Apollinaris. Strawberries, mint leaves, or slices of banana are 
often added as a garnish. 

RASPBERRY SHRUB 

I quart of cider vinegar. 6 quarts of red raspberries. 

I pint of sugar to each pint of juice. 

Put three quarts of the berries into an earthen jar, and pour 
over them the vinegar; let stand about twenty-four hours then 
strain through a jelly-bag, pressing out all the liquid; pour this 
liquid over a second three quarts of fresh berries and let stand again 
twenty-four hours; again strain through a jelly-bag expressing the 
juice. Add the sugar as above and let boil twenty minutes. Store 
as canned fruit, or in bottles. To serve, use one fourth a cup of 
the shrub to three fourths a cup of water. 

GRAPE WINE. (MARGARET WELLS, OHIO) 

Wash and stem the grapes and squeeze through a coarse cloth. 
Allow one quart of soft water to each three quarts of juice, and 
three poimds of brown sugar to four quarts of juice. Let stand six 
weeks in an open vessel, covered with a light cloth, to exclude the 
dust, and then bottle. 

CLARET CUP 

I quart of claret wine; J cup of brandy. 

I quart of charged Apollinaris water. Sugar sjrup to sweeten. , 

I pint of water, or tea. Mint leaves, if liked. 

The juice of 6 lemons. Strawberries, or pieces of pineapple. 

Mix all the ingredients, save the Apollinaris, the mint and the 
fruit; chill on ice. At serving add the other ingredients. 

HOT CLARET PUNCH 

Heat a bottle of claret with half a cup of sugar, a piece of stick 
cinnamon, half a dozen doves, and the juice of two lemons; stir 
while the sugar dissolves, strain and serve. 



S4 PRACTICAL COOKING AND SERVINQ 

DANDELION WINE 

Over two quarts of fresh dandelion blossoms pour one gallon 
of boiling water. Let stand from twenty-four to forty-eight 
hours, then strain through cheesecloth. Add the juice of four 
oranges and the juice of three lemons. Put in four pounds of 
granulated sugar and one foiurth cake of yeast foam. Stir until 
the sugar is dissolved. Put the mixture in a two or three gallon 
jar. Tie muslin over the top of the jar. Set it in the cellar for 
six weeks. Then skim, strain and bottle. 

TEA PUNCH 

Boil one quart of water and one cup of sugar fifteen minutes. 
Pour three cups of boiling water over six teaspoonfuls of black tea, 
let steep five minutes, then strain into the syrup and set aside to 
become chilled. Wash carefully two lemons and one orange, then 
remove the thin yellow rind: mix this with an equal bulk of sugar 
and let stand an hour or two; add half a cup of daret or water, let 
stand ten or fifteen nunutes then pound with a pestle and press 
through a cheesecloth. Add this with the juice of the lemons and 
orange to the chilled syrup and tea, turn into glass jars, cover 
secure and let stand in the refrigerator until ready to use. Another 
half cup of claret may be added, or the pimch may be diluted a 
little with water. 

MINT PUNCH 

Shake together in a quart jar one cup of cold water, one cup of 
sugar and the leaves from a bunch of mint. When the sugar is 
dissolved, add the juice of six lemons and one cup of currant jmce. 
Fill the jar with water and let dull on ice. When ready to serve 
add one pint of carbonated water. 

QRAPE PUNCH 

To one quart of grape juice, add the juice of four lemons and six 
oranges, with one cup of sugar; when the sugar is dissolved, add 
one quart of water and let chill on ice. When ready to serve add 
a few sprigs of mint. 



CHAPTER II 
Eggs 

AVERAGE COMPOSITION (aTWATEr) 
" To make an omelette it is necessary to break eggs." 
Protein 



French Proverb 



Retuse 


Water 


(by difference) 


Fat 


Per 


Per 


Per 


Per 


Cent. 


Cent. 


Cent. 


Cent. 



Asli Fuel Value 

Per Per Pound 

Cent. Calories 

Whole egg. .. 11.2 65.5 13.1 9.3 .q 635 

Boiled whites 86.2 13.0 .2 .6 250 

Boiled yokes 49.5 16. i 33.3 i.i 1-705 

It was our own Emerson, who said: "There is a best way of 
doing everything, even if it be to boil an egg." And yet with eggs 
the best way is not "to boil" at all, but to cook at a temperature 
below the boiling point of water, or, to be exact, not above 180° 
Fahr. An egg possesses its highest nutritive value in a raw state, 
and the higher the temperature to which it is subjected and the 
longer it is exposed to heat the more indigestible the albumen 
becomes. The white of an egg is nearly pure albumen, the yolk, 
though rich in albumen, contains about 30 per cent, of fat, and is 
also rich in sulphur. There are no uric acid derivatives in eggs. 

No other than fresh-laid eggs can be served at the breakfast 
table with full satisfaction. As the quality of the yolk, on account 
of its composition, is soon impaired, it should not be retained in 
the stomach longer than the time of normal digestion. If the egg, 
when eaten, be no longer fresh, or if, for any other cause, its diges- 
tion be impeded, derangement of the stonaach and intestines is 
liable to follow. 

Eggs axe digested more readily, when the whites and yolks have 
been mixed thoroughly before cooking, as in scrambled eggs and 
omelettes; for, in this case, the white is not taken into the stomach 
in a separate hard mass. 

Bilious people are accustomed to discard eggs in any form; but 
doubtless such,jnay eat the whites of fresh eggs, especially when 

55 



S6 PRACTICAL COOKING AND SERVING 

they are served in the form of a delicately baked custard, since 
in this case, the white, which is used alone, is broken up by beating 
and then is diluted by the other ingredients. It is the richness of 
the yolks that occasions disturbance; thirty parts of yolk in one 
hundred are fat, or oil, while the white contains but two parts of 
fat in one hundred. 

An egg is probably at its best when about twelve hours old. The 
shell of a fresh egg is full, but as the egg grows older, the water 
in composition evaporates through the porous shell, leaving a 
space, and the air penetrating causes the contents to deteriorate. 
Whtti first laid the yolk is surrounded by the white, but evapora- 
tion leaves it nearer the shell, and, if the egg be not left with the 
small end downward, the yolk from its weight wiU soon touch 
the shell, and contact with the air quickly spoils it. 

HOW TO TELL FRESH EQQS 

A fresh egg feels heavy and sinks in water; the dark spot that 
represents the yolk should be in the centre of the mass. No audible 
sound is made, when a fresh egg is shaken; shake one less fredi 
and the beating against the shell is perceptible. ' 

HOW TO PRESERVE EQQS 

To preserve eggs for any length of time, exclude the air by cover- 
ing them with fat, wax, strong brine, or lime-water; or pack them 
in sawdust, or meal. 

Eggs may be kept fresh in a cool, dry place for months by pack- 
ing them, small ends down, in a bod of ordinary coarse saJt. The 
shells should not come in contact, and each egg should stand up- 
right. The salt holds the egg firm in position and excludes the air. 
Fine coarse-salt such as is often used in freezing, is adapted to 
this purpose. 

TO PRESERVE EQQS FOR USE IN WINTER. (MRS. 
KIMBALL, STOCKBRIDQE) 

Into each three gallons of water mix one pint of fresh-slacked 
lime and one half pint of common salt; put in the eggs and cover 
^vith a board sprinkled with lime and salt, 



EGOS 57 

TO KEEP WHITES AND YOLKS AS "LEFTOVEJR" 

In recipes where only yolks are called for, the whites may be kept 
if carefully covered, in a cool place, for some days. When yolks 
are left over, they cannot be kept as long as the whites. The yolks 
should be beaten in a bowl, or cup, and carefully covered with a 
saucer. When they are required, they will be found in much 
better condition than when they are set away without beating 
(covered with cold water). When a recipe calls for whites of eggs, 
and one is to have no immediate use for yolks, drop the yolks very 
carefully, as the shells are broken, into hot water, "just ofiE the 
boil," and, after they are cooked throughout, set aside to serve 
in soup, one in each plate. Or, the cooked yolks may be rubbed 
through a sieve as a garnish for a salad, or for the top of a dish of 
cream-toast, or meat warmed in a sauce. 

CURIOUS WAYS OF COOKINQ EQQS 

Chef Adolphe Meyer in his little book on eggs, among other 
methods of cooking, aludes to two that might be tried by 
"campers." 

EGGS COOKED IN HOT ASHES 

"In countries where wood fire is constantly used, the cottagfcr 
half buries his eggs in an upright position in hot ashes, upon 3ie 
hearth, and when a clear drop oozes on the top of the shell the eggs 
are fit to be eaten." 

EGGS COOKED WITHOUT TIRE 

"The most singular method of cooking eggs is that attributed to 
the Egyptian shepherds, who, it is said, were able to cook eggs 
without fire, by placing them in a sling, and whirling them around 
so rapidly that the friction of the air heated them to the exact de- 
gree required." 

Aside from the above and other singular exceptions, and dis- 
carding combinations of egg, milk, starchy ingredients, etc., eggs 
are cooked in one of the following ways: 

I Boiled (in the shell) _ , . i .. 

flu water, stock, etc 

2 Poached (white and yolk separate) < Shirred (in cocottes, or cases) 

Woulded (in tinibale cups) 

3 Fried. 

(Omelet. 

4 Yolk and White mixed < 

I Scrambled. 



58 PRACTICAL COOKING AND SERVING 

BOILED EQQS 

The albumen of an egg cooked in boiling water three minutes, 
the time usually indicated to secure the regulation "soft-boiled" 
egg, becomes tough near the shell, while the yolk has scarcely felt 
the heat; eggs thus cooked cannot be called palatable, and, in part, 
are not reaSly digested. When cooked five minutes, the period 
considered necessary for "hard-boiled eggs," a hard, leathery mass 
results that is utterly unfit for other than the strongest stomach. 
The albumen of an egg begins to coagulate at 134° Fahr. ; at 160 
Fahr. it is white throughout, but tender and jelly-like ; this con- 
sistency it loses at 200° Fahr., while at 212° Fahr. it becomes tough 
and indigestible. 

In actual practice the white of an egg cooked by standing half 
an hour in a vessel containing one pint of water kept at 160° is 
firm yet delicate and jelly-like, while the yolk is thick and almost 
firm. Then, if the water about the eggs could be kept at 160" 
Fahr., while the various degrees of consistency desired by the 
different members of the family were secured, the breakfast prob- 
lem, as far as satisfactorily cooked eggs are concerned, would be 
solved. But this involves too close attention for the general cook- 
ing of eggs. It may be carried out to perfection only in the oc- 
casional family; it may, however, be approximated very accurately 
as follows: For each egg put one pint of boiling water into a hot 
saucepan (less will do where several eggs are to be cooked), gently 
lower the eggs into the water and let stand, imcovered, on the back 
of the range, where the heat will neither be increased nor dimin- 
ished, eight or ten minutes. If wished very firm, let stand fotty 
or forty-five minutes, covering the saucepan after the first five 
minutes — i.e., set to cook in cold water. 

BOILED EQQS NO. 2 

Allow one quart of boiling water to four eggs. Pour the water 
into an earthen jar that has been previously heated, put in the eggs, 
cover the dish and wrap in a heavy flannel cloth. The eggs will 
be soft-boiled in six minutes, more solid in ten minutes. 

BOILED EQQS NO. 3 

Place the eggs covered with cold water over the fire and remove 
at the first boil. 



BOILED EGOS 59 

EQQS FOR QARNISHINQ 

Let the eggs stand in water at 160° forty minutes; let stand in 
cold water ten or fifteen minutes, then remove the shell and cut 
with a sharp knife as desired. Soft-cooked eggs, removed whole 
from the shells, are often served with pur&s and sauces in the place 
of poached eggs. 

STUFFED TOMATOES WITH SOFT-BOILED EGGS 

Rather more than half-fill tomatoes, from which the centres have 
been taken, with equal parts of cooked, chopped mushroom 
trimmings and ham, moistened slightly with mushroom liquor, or 
the tomato taken from the centre. Season the mixture with salt 
and pepper and bind with the yolk of an egg, if desired, before 
putting in place. Bake the tomatoes until tender, but retain the 
shape, if possible. When ready to serve, dispose in each tomato 
a soft-boUed egg, shelled and reheated in hot water. Garnish the 
dish with the mushroom caps, from which the trimmings were 
taken, broiled and placed on rounds of toast. Serve with cream 
sauce apart, or poured over each egg. 

HARD BOILED EQQS WITH VARIATIONS 

HARD-BOILED EQQS A LA BECHAMEL 

Have ready finger-length strips of toast to make a square, place 
these side by side and pour over them a cup of Bechamel sauce; 
pass the yolks of six hard-boiled eggs through a sieve upon the top 
of the square and surround the sides with the whites of the eggs, 
cut in eighths lengthwise. 

BEAUREGARD EGGS 

Prepare a cup of white, or cream sauce, and stir into this the 
whites of four "hard-boiled eggs," chopped fine. Toast and ar- 
range in a serving dish bits of bread, cut to liken the petals of a 
daisy, having the petals about three inches in length. Spread the 
sauce on the buttered toast and press the yolks, seasoned with salt 
and pepper, in the centre to form the centre of the daisy. Garnish 
with parsley between the petals. 



eo PRACTICAL COOKING AND SERVING 

EGG VERMICELLI 

Spread rounds of moistened, or buttered toast with the preced- 
ing white mixture and sift the yolks over the top. Mix chopped 
chicken, ham, or mushrooms into the sauce, if convenient. 

EGG LOAF WITH ASPARAGUS 

Cooked asparagus tips. Onion juice. 

1 cup of white sauce. Salt and pepper. 

2 "hard-htoiled eggs." Cooked asparagus. 
Yolks of 6 eggs and r whole egg. White sauce. 

Use cream, or chicken stock and cream, in preparing the white 
sauce; add the hard-boiled eggs, chopped fine, one cup of cooked 
asparagus tips, the yolks and whole egg, beaten light, (four well- 
beaten eggs may be substituted) and salt and pepper to taste; turn 
into a pint charlotte mould, or a bowl, thickly buttered and lined 
with cooked asparagus tips. Cook, standing in a dish of hot water, 
imtil the centre is firm. Let stand a few moments, then turn from 
the mould. Serve with drawn butter, or HoUandaise sauce, to 
which a few asparagus tips may be added. If a charlotte mould 
be used, fit a buttered paper into the bottom; arrange the aspar- 
agus tips in contact, or at intervals one with another. 

EGG, OR EASTER CROQUETTES 

J cup of butter i egg uncooked. 

§ cup of flour. Salt and pepper to taste. 

I cup of chicken stock S or 6 "hard-boiled" eggs. 

i cup of cream. Mushrooms, or oysters. 

Prepare a sauce with the butter, flour, stock and cream; add salt 
and pepper, the uncooked egg, beaten light, and the cooked whites,, 
chopped, and yolks passed through a sieve; chill thoroughly, then 
form into egg-shaped croquettes with a bit of cooked mushroom, 
or a parboiled oyster in the centre of each. Egg-and-bread-crumb 
and fry in deep fat. (See Croquettes, pages 23-25.) Serve in a 
nest of parsley. Three eggs, with an equal bulk of fresh mush- 
rooms, broken in pieces and saut6d five minutes in butter, are pref- 
erable as far as savor is concerned. 

STUFFED EGGS AU GRATIN 

Cut six hard-boiled eggs in halves lengthwise; remove and sift 
the yolks, then add an equal quantity of cold boiled ham, with 



EGGS, STUFFED, ETC. 6i , 

chicken, or tongue pounded to a paste, half a teaspoonful, each, 
of paprika and mixed mustard, a few drops of onion juice, and 
uncooked yolk of egg, or sauce, as needed to shape. With this 
fill the •whites and press together correspondiag halves. Put 
three fourths a cup of bread, cream, or tomato sauce in a buttered 
gratin dish, and arrange the eggs in the sauce, pouring three fourths 
a cup over them; sprinkle over the top half a cup of coarse bread 
crumbs saUt6d in two tablespoonfuls of butter, and set the dish in 
the oven to reheat. 

STUFFED EQQS WITH SALAD 

12 eggs. 3 tablespoonfuls of oil. 

2 tablespoonfuls of French mustard, i cup of cold boiled ham, or tongue. 

I tablespoonful of lemon juice. Salt and Cayenne. 

Cook the eggs as for garnishing, page 59, then cut in halves 
lengthwise; remove the yolks and rub to a smooth paste with the 
oil and seasonings; add the ham or tongue, fine-chopped, and mix 
thoroughly. Fill the space in the whites with this mixture, round- 
ing it to resemble a whole yolk. Serve on a bed of water-cress 
dressed with French dressing. 

STUFFED EQGS FOR PICNICS 

Prepare the eggs as for stuffed eggs with salad, but cut the eggs 
in halves, crosswise, instead of lengthwise; make the mixture level 
with the edge of the halves of egg; brush over the edge of one white 
with uncooked white of egg and press the corresponding half closely 
upon it; let stand to dry. Cut white tissue paper into pieces six 
inches square, fringe the opposite sides, and roll an egg in each 
paper, adding with the egg a sentiment or quotation. within on a 
bit of paper; twist the fringed ends in the same manner as. "candy 
secrets." Serve in a small basket lined with ferns, 

STUFFED EQQS, FRIED 

Have eggs cooked and shelled as "Eggs for Garnishing," on page 
,59. With a tin tube, half an inch in diameter, remove a cylin- 
drical piece of white from the pointed end of each egg; then with a 
small vegetable spoon empty the whites of yolks. Pound the yolks 
witii Bernaise, or Hollandaise sauce, adding cooked mushrooms, 
chopped fine; fill the eggs with this mixture and put the pieces of 



62 PRACTICAL COOKING AND SERVING 

white back in place; egg-and-bread-aumb and fry to a pale sttaw 
color, in deep fat. Serve with Soubise, or tomato sauce. 

HARD-BOILED EQQS WITH NOODLES AND MUSHROOMS 

Arrange layers of cooked-and-blanched noodles, mushroom 
caps, broken in pieces and simmered in milk or broth, and hard- 
boiled eggs, cut in slices, in a gratin dish. Cover each layer with 
Bechamel sauce, reduced with the mushroom liquor. Sprinkle 
the whole Avith melted butter and grated Parmesan cheese, and 
reheat in a hot oven. Garnish with whole mushrooms and slices 
of egg. 

POACHED EQQS 

Eggs are poached by cooking in water after they have been taken 
from the shells. Witiout doubt, the idea of "poaching," as used 
in cookery, applies primarily to the direct appHcation of heated 
water without the intervention, as in the case of eggs, of the shell, 
or an intermediate vessel; thus we poach eggs, quenelles, or mer- 
ingue, directly in the water. But the term poadiing has come to 
be applied to the cooking of all articles containing eggs, either in 
the oven or on the top of the range, in dishes that are surrounded 
with hot water. Two things are essential to the perfection oi 
dishes cooked by poaching; first, the dish containing the food 
should be set on a trivet — several folds of paper answer admir- 
ably — that it may not come in contact with the vessel containing 
the heated water. Secondly, the water in which the cooking is to 
be done should be at the boiling point when it is poured about the 
dish containing the food, but it should not be allowed to boil there- 
after. 

But to retumto poached eggs. Kitchiner says that "the cook 
who wishes to display her skiU in poaching must endeavor to pro- 
cure eggs that have been laid a couple of days." The white of 
new-laid eggs is milky, easily dissolved and separated in water, 
but, on the other hand, if too stale, the cell-wdls do not remain 
firm, and the eggs flatten out. Kitchiner probably is about right. 
When poached to perfection the egg throughout is jelly-like, the 
golden yolk just showing through a "transparent veil" of white. 
To secure this condition brush over the bottom of an iron frying- 
pan with butter, or oil, then partly fill with boiling water, adding 
salt, or a little lemon juice, or vinegar; break the eggs one after 
another into a cup and turn them into the water, which should not 



EGGS, POACHED 63 

be let boil, or even simmer. The top of the yolk should slightly 
emerge from the water; if the yolk be covered, carefuUy dip out 
some of the water; if too much is visible, add more water very care- 
fully, so as not to disturb the eggs; let stand until the egg is cooked 
to the consistency desired, then remove with a skimmer and ar- 
range on slices of bread toasted, after removing the crusts, and 
buttered. If the eggs be of proper age and poached carefully, they 
will not need trimming. It is an open question whether trimming 
ever improves their appearance. Add a few bits of water-cress 
or parsley, to complete the dish. 

POACHED EGOS, FRENCH STYLE 

Eggs poached, French style resemble in appearance and shape 
a soft-boiled egg removed whole from the shell. They are used 
principally to garnish a crust, or crouton, filled with puree. For 
success the eggs must be just about twenty-four hours old and 
cooked one at a time. Have about a quart of water, to which a 
teaspoonful of salt and a tablespoonful of vinegar has been 
added, boiling violently. Break the shell and turn the contents, 
at once, onto the water at a point where there is the greatest agi- 
tation. The high temperature of the water and the acid harden 
the albumen upon the outside and keep the egg whole. The egg 
should be kept in motion either by the boiling water, or the use of 
a skimmer; this tends to keep the mass oval in shape. Remove 
with a skimmer and drain before setting in place. 

POACHED EQQ, HYGIENIC FASHION 

Add a few grains of salt to the white of an egg, beat until dry and 
turn into a buttered glass, or a china bowl; form a nest on the top 
for the yolk. Set the glass on a trivet, in a covered dish of luke- 
warm water, and let cook until the egg is set and rises in the glass. 
Do not let the water boil around the glass. 

WITH TOAST 

Pile the beaten white of an egg on a round slice of toast, giving 
it the form of a nest; drop in the yolk and let cook in a moderate 
oven until set. In this case the toast takes the place of the water. 
At discretion the toast may first be spread with anchovy paste, 
fine-chopped ham, or chickeii, stirred into a white sauce. 



64 PRACTICAL COOKING AND SERVING 

POACHED EQQS WITH SPINACH A LA CRfeiWE 

Cook half a peck of spinach (see page 280) drain and chop. 
Cook two tablespoonfuls of flour in two of butter; add half a cup 
of cream, and when well blended and smooth add the spinach with 
salt and pepper as needed; cook and stir until well mixed, thea 
spread on rounds of toast, or fried bread and place a poached egg 
on top; sprinkle the yolk with fine-chopped parsley if desired. 

POACHED EQQS WITH CREAMED SALMON 

Brush the cases (see Bread Croustades, page 26) with melted 
butter and brown in the oven; fill with fresh salmon cooked, (canned 
salmon may be used), flaked and heated in a cup of hot cream 
sauce. Dispose a poached egg above the salmon. Serve garnished 
with parsley and slices of lemon. 

POACHED EQQS WITH CREAMED CELERY 

Arrange poached eggs in a circle on rounds of hot buttered toast; 
fill in the centre of the circle with a pint of celery, cut into indi 
lengths and cooked in boiling water until tender (about two hours), 
then stirred into a cup and a half of cream sauce. In making the 
sauce use half water in which the celery was cooked and half cream. 

POACHED EQQS WITH ANCHOVY TOAST 

Toast rounds of bread, spread with anchovy paste and place a 
poached egg on top of each roimd. 

EQQS POACHED IN CONSOMME 

Use consommd instead of water, poaching one or two eggs at a 
time; thicken the consomme, add a few spoonfuls of cream and 
pour around or over the eggs, arranged on slices of toast. 

OACHED EQQS, COUNTESS STYLE 

Fill puff-paste patties with asparagus tips, cooked and well 
buttered; cover with a poached egg and surround with cream, 
A^lout6, or Hollandaise sauce. If the cream sauce, made thick 



EGGS, POACHED 65 

with pur6e of asparagus; be used in the patties with the egg above, 
the dish becomes poached eggs with cream of asparagus. 

POACHED EQQS, SICILIAN FASHION 

Fill bread croustades, or puff-paste cases with cooked and sifted 
chicken livers, mixed with cream or veloutfi sauce to form a thick 
puree; place a poached egg above. Pour tomato sauce over, or 
around the croutons. 

POACHED EQQS, CREOLE STYLE 

I can of tomatoes. 2 tablespoonfuls of butter. 

1 green pepper, shredded. Salt and pepper. 

Toast. I tablespoonful of lemon juice, or 

5 eggs. vinegar. 

Stew the tomatoes and pepper imtil the tomato is reduced one 
half; turn on to a serving dish, arrange on the tomato five rounds 
of toast, and upon each of these a poached egg. Melt and brown 
the butter, add the vinegar, or lemon juice, and, when the liquid 
boils, pour the sauce over the eggs; sprinkle with salt and pepper 
and serve at once. 

EQQS BENEDICT 

Split and toast English muffins, dip the edges In boiling salted 
water, and dot with bits of butter. Set a slice of hot broiled ham 
above each half muffin and a poached egg above the ham. Pour 
Hollandaise sauce over the whole. 

SALPICON OF EQQS IN CASSEROLES, PATTY-SHELLS, ETC. 

The whites of 6 eggs. The yolks of 6 eggs. 

6 tablespoonfuls of thin cream. -6 tablespoonfuls of consomm6, or 
Salt and pepper. chicken broth. 

Beat the whites and yolks e^arately, and only until well broken 
up; add the liquid and seaisonings and strain into two well-buttered 
moulds, the yolks in one, the whites in the other. Poach in a 
moderate oven imtil the centres are firm. Unmould when cold, 
cut in thin slices and stamp out into figures. Reheat with truffles 
and smoked tongue, also cut out in figures, in Bechamel, velout6, 
or supreme sauce. Serve in patty-shells, Swedish timbale cases, 
V)cottes, china, or paper gases. If paper cases be the choice, brush 



66 PRACTICAL COOKING AND SERVING 

them over with oil, or melted butter and dry them in the oven 
before using. 

SHIRRED EQQS (GEUFS SUR LE PLAT). AU MIROIR. EGQ 
IN COCOTTES- 

Eggs poached in a dish are said to be shirred; when the eggs are 
basted with melted butter during the cooking, to give them a 
glossy, shiny appearance, the dish is called au miroir. Often the 
the eggs are served in the dish in which they are cooked; at other 
times, especially where several are cooked in the same dish, they 
are cut with a ^o^nd paste-cutter and served on croutons, or on a 
garnish. Eggs are shirred in flat dishes, in cases of china, or paper, 
or in cocottes. A cocotte is a small earthen saucepan with a 
handle, standing on three feet. These are usually of Sarregue- 
mines ware. The china cases are in various styles; some are pro- 
vided %vith a saucer upon which the case rests for serving. When 
paper cases are used, a second larger case receives the case in whict 
the egg is cooked. 



Mix two tablespoonfuls, each, of bread crumbs and chopped 
chicken, or ham (or use bread alone) with cream to make a batter; 
season with salt and pepper. Line a buttered cocotte, or case 
(china, or paper) with the batter, break an egg into the dish, and, 
if desired, cover with batter; bake on a folded paper in a dish con- 
taining hot water, until the egg is set. Serve from the dish. 

n 

Saute a handful of chopped mushrooms with a little onion juice 
in butter five minutes; add a little chopped parsley, sprinkle the 
same on the bottom and sides of a buttered shirrer or cocotte, and 
break the egg into the dish; sprinkle with the fine herbs and cook 
as above, basting two or three times with melted butter. 

EQQS SHIRRED IN TOMATOES (AU MIROIR) 

Cut circular pieces from the stem ends of the tomatoes and 
remove part of the pulp; season with salt and pepper, also with 
onion juice and parsley, if desired; breg,k an egg into each tomato 
and cook in a slow oven until the egg is set, basting with melted 
butter. Serve on rounds of butter^ toast; or, put the tomatoes 
into the oven on rounds of bread brushed over on all sides witia 



EGGS, FRIED, ETC. 67 

melted butter; remove the tomatoes on the bread to the serving- 
dish. Garnish with curled celery. Serve with cream sauce apart, 
or poured around the toast. 

EQQS SHIRRED WITH CHICKEN FORCEMEAT 

Line buttered china cups with chicken forcemeat (see page 232) ; 
break an egg into the centre of each cup, cover with buttered paper 
and let poach, standing on a folded paper in a dish of hot water, 
about ten minutes. Serve with or without a spoonful of Bechamel 
sauce poured over the top of each egg. 

EQQS WITH MASHED POTATO 

Pipe a Duchess potato mixture (see page 264), or a well seasoned 
mashed-potato mixture as a border around the inside of an in- 
dividual egg-dish; spread cpoked fine herbs (see page 21), or bits of 
meat, or fish in a sauce over the open space on the bottom of the 
dish; above this break two eggs. Cook in the oven until the eggs 
are set. Sprinkle the yolks with pepper and serve at once. 

EQQS A LA PARISIENNE (MOULDED EQQS) 

Sprinkle the inside of buttered dariole moulds with fine-chopped 
parsley. Break an egg into each mould, dust with salt and pepper, 
set on a folded paper in 9, pan of hot water, and let poach, covered, 
on the top of the range, or in the oven, as convenient, until the eggs 
are firm, then turn from the moulds on to a hot serving-dish. 
Have ready a can of tomatoes that have been cooked fifteen min- 
utes with a slice of onion and passed through a sieve; season with 
salt and pepper and re-heat with a cup of canned mushrooms, or 
let simmer ten minutes with a cup of fresh mushrooms, peeled and 
saut6d in two tablespoonftils of butter. Pour the tomatoes and 
mushrooms about the eggs and serve at once. 

EQQS MOULDED IN PIMENTOS 

Line buttered timbale, or dariole moulds with canned pimentos 
(a can costing eighteen cents contains a dozen pimentos); break 
an egg into each mould, and poach until the egg is set; then turn 
from the moulds on to roimds of buttered toast and serve with 
cream sauce. 



68 PRACTICAL COOKING AND SERVING 

FRIED EQQS 

Have plenty of fat, not too hot, in a frying-pan; break the eggs, 
one by one, into a cup and turn them into the fat (don't crowd the 
pan); if the fat bubbles and spatters it is too hot; with a spoon dip 
the fat and pour it over the eggs. When the yolks are covert 
with a transparent film, remove to slices of broiled ham cut a little 
larger than the eggs. Eggs may be fried and present an appearance 
as. delicate as when they are poached. An egg fried brown is most 
indigestible and no additional flavor is gained thereby. 

EQQS WITH BROWN BUTTER 

8 eggs. § cup of butter. 

Salt and pepper. i tablespoonful of vinegar. 

Heat half the butter in a frying-pan over a strong fire; when it 
is turning brown remove to a cooler place. Have ready the rest 
of the butter in a second frying-pan and into this carefully break 
the eggs without injuring the yolks; sprinkle with salt and pepper; 
pour the browned butter carefully over the surface of the eggs and 
put the vinegar on to heat in this frying-pan. When the whites 
become set, or firm, remove to a serving-dish and pour the vinegai 
over them. 

SCRAMBLED EQQS 

Butter a saut6-pan generously; add the eggs, beaten and seasoned 
as for a French omelet, also, if desired, half as many tablespoonfuls 
of cream, or water, as eggs — the liquid will give a more custard- 
like appearance to the dish. Stir the eggs, continually, until 
they are of a soft, creamy consistency throughout; the last of the 
cooking should be done by the heat of the pan. Serve at once. 
Scrambled eggs may be varied by the addition of any of the articles 
usually added to omelets. These materials may be chopped fine, 
or cut in small distinct cubes: they should be mixed with the eggs 
just before the pan is taken from the fire. Scrambled eggs may 
be served simply with a sprig of parsley, or on toast, or in cases 
with or without a sauce. 

SCRAMBLED EQQS AND TOMATOES, SPINACH BORDER 

Cook half a peck of spinach in broth. Chop fine. Season and 
form into a ring on a dish. Beat six eggs; add salt, pepper, and 




BAKED HALIBUT, BONE REMOVED AFTER BAKING. 
Garnish: Oyster croquettes (egg-shaped) and parp'''''y 




TURBANS OF HALIBUT AND BOILED POTATO BALLS. 
Garnish: Chopped parsley. (See pase 85.) 




FILLET OF FLOUNDER SERVED IN SILVER CASSEROLE. (See page 77.) 
Fillets baked in large dish and transferred to individual dishes 



OMELETS ^ 

half a cup of canned tomatoes; mix thorouglily. Turn into a hot 
omelet pan over two tablespoonfuls of melted butter; stir until 
the mixtiu-e is lightly set, then turn into the centre of the spinach 
dish, garnish and serve hot. 

EQGS A LA BUCKINGHAM 

5 slices of toast. i teaspoonful of salt. 

I cup of cream sauce. Pepper. 

S eggs. 3 tablespoonfuls of cream, or water, 

5 tablespoonfuls of grated cheese. if desired. 

Dip the edges of the toast in boiling salted water, then in the 
sauce; pour the sauce over the toast, and above this the egg 
scrambled with the seasonings and liquid. Sprinkle the top with 
the cheese and set the dish in the oven just long enough to melt 
the cheese; then serve at once. 

EQGS, LOWELL STYLE 

Cut tomatoes in halves crosswise; dip in oil, or melted butter, 
then in fine bread, or cracker crumbs, and broil over a rather slow 
fire. Set aside to keep hot. Melt three tablepsoonfuls of butter, 
pour in half a dozen eggs — beaten until whites and yolks are well 
mixed — season with half a teaspoonful of salt, a dash of pepper 
and dilute with five tablespoonfuls of water; stir a moment, then 
add five tablespoonfuls of grated cheese and stir until the cheese 
is melted and the eggs are set. Put the mixture on buttered rounds 
of toast with half a tomato above. 

OMELETS 

All omelets may be grouped under one or the other of two classes: 
the French, or the puffy. There are many varieties and modifica- 
tions of these two classes; but in reality, if these be examined care- 
fully, they will be found to belong to the one or the other group. 

THE EGG 

In most of the recipes given below the whole of the egg is used, 
but by preference the number of yolks should exceed that of the 
whites, as an omelet more tender and of looser texture results. 
Thudicum asserts that all cookery books, up to 1840, omit a num- 
ber, up to half, of all the whites, and Kitchiner says that no art can 
prevent an omelet being hard, if too muchof the white be left in it. 



70 PRACTICAL COOKING AND SERVING 



THE PAN 



The pan should be thin, as quick cooking is of importance; it 
should not be large, as one of the first requisites in a perfect omelet 
is thickness. The greatest care and skill are needed to secure an 
omelet in which the eggs are not liquid, but barely set. 

UTENSIL FOR SERVING 

A spoon or fork is the proper utensil for serving. If a knife 
needs be used the omelet is a failure. 

FRENCH OMELET 

To make a French omelet, break the eggs into a bowl; add as 
many tablespoonfuls of water as there are eggs, coimting two yolks 
as a whole egg, and for each three eggs, a dash of pepper and one 
fourth a teaspoonful of salt; beat the eggs with a spoon, or fork, 
until a spoonful can be taken up; then strain into another bowl. 
If a mild flavor of garlic be agreeable, rub the inside of the bowl 
into which the eggs are to be broken with a dove of garlic. Have 
ready in the cleanest, smoothest, and thinnest of frying-pans, a 
tablespoonful of melted butter; into this pour the egg mixture, 
set on a hot part of the range for a moment, then, with a thin 
knife, or spatula, separate the cooked portion from the side of the 
frying-pan, and gently rock the pan back and forth, the side next 
the handle raised as the pan is pushed forward and the opposite 
side raised as it is brought back, that the uncooked part may irun 
down next the pan. When creamy throughout, begin at the side 
of the pan next the handle and roll the omelet, letting the pan rest 
on the stove a moment, until the omelet is browned slightly, adding 
a little butter, if needed, and turn on to a hot platter. 

FORMULA FOR A THREE-EQQ OMELET 

2 whole eggs. i teaspoonful of salt. 

2 yolks of eggs. Dash of pepper. 

3 tablespoonfuls of water. i tablespoonful of butter, 

PUFFY OMELET 

To make a puffy omelet, beat the whites of the eggs until dry ; 
beat the yolks until light-colored and thick; add to the yolks a 
tablespoonful of water for each yolk, and one fourth a teaspoonful 



OMELETS 71 

of salt, and a dash of pepper for each three yolks; mix together 
thoroughly, and turn over the beaten whites, then cut and fold 
the whites into the yolk mixture. Have the pan buttered and hot 
as before, turn in tie mixtiure, spreading it evenly over the pan. 
Let stand for about two minutes, where there is a moderate heat, 
then set in the oven to cook the top shghtly. Just as soon as a 
knife — thrust into the centre of the omelet — comes out nearly 
clean, remove from the oven, cut across the centre of the tap, at 
right angles to the handle, fold the part nearest the handle over 
the other part, and turn on to a hot platter. 

Either the plain French omelet, or the puffy omelet may be 
varied by the use of a filling, or a garnish, or both. The filling, if 
fine-chopped, as parsley, or other herbs, may be mixed with the 
body of the omelet; though by "filling" we usually mean a little 
of the desired article chopped fine or cut in small cubes, perhaps 
mixed with a sauce, sprinkled on to the surface of the omelet before 
it is folded. When used as a garnish the article is mixed with a 
sauce and poured about the omelet. Green, or canned peas in 
white sauce, mushrooms, fresh or canned, macaroni in tomato 
sauce, oysters in cream sauce, fine-chopped ham, or chicken, aspar- 
agus tips, and tomatoes are among the favorite fillings and gar- 
nishes. 

OMELETS WITH A STARCHY FOUNDATION 

Oftentimes an omelet is desired that will keep in good condition 
a short interval after it has been made. In this case, a thickening 
ingredient is added to help hold up the eggs. In order to be either 
wholesome, or palatable, this f oxmdation must be thoroughly cooked 
before the eggs are added. While dishes of this class are called 
omelets, they belong more properly to the group of pancakes. 

MRS. GRANT'S OMELET 

1 cup of sweet milk. ^ teaspoonful of salt. 

2 tablespoonfuls of butter. Dash of pepper. 
2 tablespoonfub of floiu:. S eggs. 

2 tablespoonfuls of butter. 

With the first five ingredients make a white sauce; stir this 
gradually into the beaten yolks of the eggs, then fold in the whites 
of the eggs beaten dry. Melt the last two tablespoonfuls of butter 
ki the omelet pan, pour in the mixture and cook as a puffy omelet. 



72 PRACTICAL COOKING AND SERVING 

Fine-chopped ham, chicken, oysters parboiled and cut in piieces, 
mushrooms cut in pieces, etc., etc. may be added to the sauce with 
the volks of eggs. 

RICE OMELET 

2 tablespoonfuls of butter. ^ teaspoonful of salt. 

2 eggs. I cup of warm, boiled rice. 

Beat the eggs, and add the salt and rice; the grains of rice should 
be whole and each held separately in the egg mixture; if the rice 
be very dry, add two tablespoonfuls of milk. Cook as a pufiy 
omelet. 



CHAPTER ni 



Fish and Its Cookery. Frogs and Terrapin 



"Tis very fresh and sweet, Sir — 
The fish was taken but this night." 

— Beaumont and Fletcher, 



Fish. 



Fish with Scales. 



Shell Fish. 



^Bivalves. 



'/Oysters. 
< Clams, 
'scallops. 



\. Frogs, Turtle, Terrapin. 



^ fLobstets. 

iCrustftCKUis. .^Crab*. 



vShrimps. 



CHEMICAL COMPOSITIONS OF FISH (aTWATEU) 



Refuse. Water. 

Sl-2 37-4. 

Bluefish.. 48.6 403 

Cod, whole ...29.9 58.5 

Cod steaks... 9.3 72.4 

Flounder 61.5 32.6 

Haddock.... .,51 -o 40.o 

Halibut..:.. . J7. 7 61.9 

Mackerel., ..44'7 40-4 

Salmon ......29.5 48.1 

Shad so-" 35-2 

Shad roe 71-2 

Smelt 41-9 461 

Spanish 34.6 44.5 

Brook Trout. .48.1 40.4 



AS PURCHASED 








Protein 




Carbohy- 




Fuel value 


by diff 'ence. 


Fat. 


drates 


Ash. 


per pound- 


8.7 


2.2 




■S 


iSS 


9.8 


6.3 




•7 


210 


10.6 


.2 




.8 


2IS 


16.9 


•S 




.0 


335 


S-t 


■3 




>5 


"S 


8.2 


.2 




.6 


-i6s ■ 


iS-i 


4.4 




■9 


470 


10. 


4.2 




• 7 


36s 


rsS 


8.1 




.8 


600 


9.2 


4.8 




■7 


380 


20.9 


3-8 


2.6 


i-S 


600 


10.0 


I.O 




1.0 


230 


13-7 


6.2 




1.0 


S'S 


9.8 


I.i 




•6 


230 



7.< 



74 



PRACTICAL COOKING AND SERVING 



PISH PRESERVED AND CANNED 

Protein. Carbohy- Fuel Value 

Reiase. Water, by difi'ence. Fat. drates. Ash. per pound 

Salt Cod 24.9 40-2 16.0 .4 18. s 315 

Boneless Salt 

Cod 1.6 54.8 28.6 .3 .... 14.7 S4S 

Smoked 

Halibut 70 46.0 19. 1 14.0 13-9 95° 

Salt Mackerel ..19.7 348 13.9 21.2 10.4 1.155 

Canned Salmon 14.2 56.8 19.5 7-5 2.0 680 

Canned 

Sardines 236 23.7 12. i 5.3 950 

SHELI^FISB. FRESH 

Protein Carbohy- Fuel Value 

Refuse. Water. by.diS'rnce. Fat. drates. Ash. per pound. 

Long Clams 

inshell.... 41-9 49-9 5° -6 11 i-S 140 

Roimd Clams 67.3 28.0 2.1 .1 1.4 .9 70 

Lobsters in Shell 61.7 30.7 5.9 .7 2 .8 140 

Oysters in Shell 81.4 16. i 1.2 .2 .7 .4 45 

Oysters, solid 88.3 6.0 1.3 3.3 i.i 230 

Fish contains all the elements of jneat in an easily digested form; 
on this account it is adapted to the needs of old and young alike, 
and especially to sedentary people. In primitive times, when each 
man supplied his own larder at first hand, fish-aboimding streams 
were chosen for the abodes of men. As peoples grew in culture and 
refinement their written history, both sacred and profane, contains 
frequent allusions to the capture, cooking, and eating of fish. 

It is said that the Emperor Charles V visited the grave of the 
man who systematically introduced into the Netherlands the 
preservation of herring by salting, smoking, and drying them, as 
a benefactor of mankind. LucuUus, at great expense, connected 
a lake near Naples with the sea, in whidh he might keep sea-fish 
alive. We catdi a glimpse of the life of the age m the passage of 
sacred history where Simon Peter says, "I go a-fishing," and we 
marvel at thfr great draft of fishes after the long night of dis- 
couragement. What reader does not experience a thrill of the 
satisfaction that must have been felt by those weary men on land- 
ing, at sight of the "fire of coals and fish laid thereon and bread." 

On account of abundance, many varieties of fish are inexpensive. 



FISH AND ITS COOKERY 75 

The price even of the choicest species, barring mollusks and crus- 
taceans, in season, is not high, when it is compared vdth. the cost 
of the best cuts of meat. 

Though fish has been a staple in food since the earliest times, 
yet the serving of fish in such form that it can be eaten with pleas- 
ure by people of delicate and aesthetic tendencies is of more recent 
date. This only affords additional proof that the cultivation of a 
people is determined by the maimer in which they cook and serve 
their meals. 

Notwithstanding all the shippers tell us of the conveniences of 
transportation, and of flavor preserved by keeping fish packed in 
ice for some days, we are inclined to be skeptical, and fear that 
housekeepers who dwell far inland, will not find in their markets 
sea-food in prime condition. In the vicinity of the Great Lakes, 
however, excellent whitefish and lake trout make up, in part, for 
this deficiency. Brook trout, than which few fish are more highly 
prized, are plentiful in many a mountain stream, and fresh-water 
lakes are destined to be stocked with the black bass and other 
edible fishes. Indeed, since cultivated trout can be sold at a profit, 
and the supply is said never to equal the demand, there would 
seem to be an opportunity here for a paying business venture. 

Of salt-water fish, cod, haddock, and halibut, are the staples. 
Common mackerel appear about the first of April, the Spanish 
about the fifteenth of the same month. Spanish mackerel is sold 
at twenty-five cents per pound, the common, at so much a fish, 
the price depending upon the season and size of the fish. Both 
are very handsome. They are easily distinguished by their color 
and marking. Indeed, from its marking the fish takes its name, 
this being derived from the Latin word macula, meaning a spot. 
The common mackerel is usually smaller in size than the Spanish, 
and the dark blue above is covered with many wavy, blackish 
cross-streaks. The Spanish mackerel is bluish and silvery above, 
with bright reflections, and upon the sides are many roundish 
. bronze spots. 

The huge swordfish, from which firm slices may be cut, is in 
season from July to September. Bluefish abound in May, when 
deep-sea fishing becomes possible. Frozen salmon may be found, 
in file Eastern markets, during the winter and spring, but the 
season begins in June. Salted salmon is especially deserving of 
mention, for even after the salting and freshening processes have 
been completed, the fish is very ridi, both in nitrogenous elements 
and in fat; it is good either bpiled or broiled. 



y6 PRACTICAL COOKING ANP SERVING 

Salt codfish may be so cooked as to make a most palatable and 
wholesome breakfast or Imicheon dish. It is comparatively easy 
of digestion, and is said to be particularly good for children^ 
troubled with complaints incident to hot weather. It also acts as 
a sedative, in cases of dyspepsia caused by fermentation. 

Shad are taken at Charleston in January, at Norfolk in February, 
at New York near the last of March, or the first of April, and at 
Boston by the end of April. The fish come from the south, run- 
ning up the rivers from the sea to deposit their spawn in fresh 
water. 

The season for brook trout begins April first. They come just 
in time to take the place of smelts, which are then no longer season- 
able. The fishery of white bait begins in April. This delicacy in 
fish, served at the popular clubs, is made fashionable on account 
of the Ministerial white bait dinner given at Greenwich just before 
the prorogation of Parliament. The labor involved in preparing 
and cooking this tiny fish is a drawback against its large consump- 
tion. 

TO DETERMINE THE FRESHNESS OF FISH 

Of fresh fish there is no odor; the flesh is firm, bright, and crisp- 
looking; the eyes are bright, not dull and lustreless, and the gills 
are of a bright red color. 

PREPARATION OF FISH FOR COOKERY 

TO CLEAN FISH 

Fish, either salt or fresh, is the better if it be cleaned and drawn 
immediately on being taken from the water. This is emphatically 
true in the case of fresh-water fish. Fish cleaned at the market 
will need, additional attention. Begin at the tail and scrape the 
fish to remove scales. See that the flesh be clean close to the back- 
bone. Wash quickly, inside and out, but do not let the fish stand 
in the water, drain and dry. 

Let stand, skin side down, upon the ice until time of cooking. 
This, according to Izaak Walton, should be speedy. Mackerel 
and bluefish, in particular, after transporation, even on ice, scarcely 
resemble the same fish, when it is eaten within a few boiurs after 
it has been taken from the salt water. 

SERVING riSH 

£i the fish is to be served whole, leave head and tail intact, but 
remove the eyes and cut off the fins. In whatever way the fisk 



GENERAL WAYS OF COOKING HSH 77 

be cooked, it shoxild be carefxilly drained and mounted; use parsley 
or cress most lavishly in its garnishing. 

TO REMOVE THE SKIN 

It is a very simple matter to remove the bones also the skin from 
some kinds of fish, thus leaving the flesh clear and intact. Cut oflf 
the fins along the back, and then a strip of skin less than half an 
inch wide down the full length of the back; also cut the skin around 
the head. Dip the fingers ia salt that IJiey may not slip, then, 
after loosening the skin below the head, draw it off from one side of 
the fish, by pulling gently with one hand and pushing with the back 
of a knife held in the other hand, so as to keep the flesh whole; 
repeat the process on the other side of the fish. 

TO BONE A FISH 

Beginning at the tail, on one side, slip the knife in between the 
flesh and the bone and cleave the flesh from the bone its entire 
length; this gives one fillet; remove the other in the same manner. 
These fillets may be cooked whole, or cut in such pieces as are 
desired. Halibut cut in transverse slices, half an inch thick, is 
filleted by removing the skin on the edge and the single piece of 
bone from the centre. Each slice thus gives four fillets. Fillets 
of halibut and flounders are often sold as "fillets of sole." The 
sole is not found in our waters. The inexpensive floimder, dear to 
memory through the fairy tales of Grimm, will be foimd when 
filleted and served with tomato, or other piquant sauce, a most 
appetizing tidbit; but it is not quite the equal of the English sole. 
The more expensive chicken halibut is considered by many superior 
to sole. Large fillets from cod or haddock may be baked on an 
oiled fish-sheet with an oyster or bread-stufling between and but- 
tered criunbs above. If small, they may be marinated, tolled and 
fastened in shape with a small skewer or wooden toothpick. Butter 
the. skewers that they may be easily withdrawn after the fish is 
cooked. These fillets may be braised, baked, or, after egging-and 
bread-crumbing, fried. 

Frozen fish need to be thawed out in cold water, then cooked 
at once. 

GENERAL WAYS OF COOKING FISH 

Fish may be boiled, braised, baked, broiled, or fried, according 
to individual fancy, but a certain way is more suitable for some 



78 PRACTICAL COOKING AND SERVING 

varieties than it is for another. Red-blooded fish, as salmon, blue- 
fish, and mackerel, in which the fat is distributed throughout the 
fish, being rich and moist, should be cooked by other methods than 
sautSng and frying. Any white-blooded fish, as cod, haddock, 
and halibut, in which the fat is concentrated in the liver, will bear 
cooking by these latter methods. 

Salmon, which possesses a higher nutritive value than meat, 
chiefly on account of the large proportion of fat in composition, 
may be cooked in boiling water, which, as a general rule, unless the 
water be used as stock, is a wasteful way of cooking fish. When 
the white varieties are cooked in water they need be supplemented 
by rich sauces; and when baked they must be basted often, or they 
will be dry and tasteless. All fish, like veal and pork, must be 
thoroughly cooked, lest they be worse than unpalatable — that is, 
positively inimical to health. If cooked too long, however, fish 
loses flavor and is "woolly." 

COOKINQ F^ISH IN BOILING LIQUID 

In cooking fish in boiling Uquid, two things must be kept in view: 
appearance and nutritive effect. Cold liquid draws out the juices, 
while pltmging a fish in boiling water causes the skin to contract 
and crack. 

In consequence, a medium course must be pursued. Lower the 
fish, fastened in an upright position, if whole, on a fish rack, or sheet, 
or, in the absence of this useful utensil, coiled in a frying basket 
or tied in a piece of cheesecloth, into warm liquid and bring quickly 
to the boiling point; then let simmer until the flesh separates readily 
from the bones, and no longer. After simmering begins, cooking 
wiU take from five to eight minutes a pound, according to the 
thickness of the fish. 

Let the liquid just cover the fish; add a generous teaspoonful of 
salt and a tablespoonf ul of vinegar or lemon juice to each two quarts 
of water, or milk and water, or court bouillon. When the fish is 
cooked, let drain over the kettle; dress with care on a folded napkin 
to absorb any liquid from the fish. Garnish plentifully with fresh 
parsley or cress. Serve with HoUandaise, Bechamel, or drawn- 
butter sauce. Lobster or pickles may be added to any of these 
sauces. Boiled potato balls are often served on the dish with the 
fish. A fish kettle with rack or sheet is of great convenience in 
graining and removing a fish whole and shapely to the platter. 



BROILING FISH 79 

BROILING FISH 

Fish that when dressed presents a thin flat surface, particularly 
those varieties in which the oil is distributed throughout the flesh, 
as shad, bluefish and mackerel, are usually broiled. Without doubt 
the best results in broiling are obtained with the charcoal fire; but 
electricity, or gas, which may be extinguished as soon as the cook- 
ing is done, is often most convenient. The lower oven of a gas- 
range furnishes a most excellent place for broiling a live lobster 
or "planking " a fish. Before broiHng a fish, brush well with butter 
or oil, and be very careful that the fire be not too hot. After the 
first few seconds, the fish should be drawn away from the fire and 
cooked even more slowly. Many varieties of fish, if they be sub- 
jected to a fierce heat, become hard and indigestible. Mackerel 
and bluefish of fair size require fifteen or twenty minutes' slow 
cooking. Baste with butter once or twice. The latter part of the 
cooking, particularly when the fish is thick, will be most success- 
fully carried on in the oven. The broiler needs be placed in the 
oven over a dripping pan. Have the broiler hot and well oiled 
before the fish is put in it, and turn every ten seconds in cooking 
the flesh side, oftener in cooking the skin side, to avoid burning. 
Brush halibut or other dry fish generously with oil or butter, roll 
in soft bread crumbs and broil. With a silver fork carefully sepa- 
rate the fish from the broiler (double- wire broiler) on both sides, then 
slide on to the dish. Spread with maltre d'hdtel butter. A planked 
fish is broiled or roasted without turning; after the first ten seconds, 
it should be withdrawn some distance from the fire. The plank 
should be heated and oiled before the fish is fastened to it. 

COURT BOUILLON 

I stalk of celery cut fine. 3 or 4 cloves. 

I carrot cut fine. i small pepper without seeds. 

1 onion cut fine. i bay leaf. 

2 quarts of water i teaspoonful of salt. 

I cup of cider vinegar. Fish trimmings if at hand. 

3 tablespoonfuls of butter or 2 sprigs of parsley, 
drippings. 

Saute the vegetables in the butter; add the other ingredients, 
let boil and skim, then cool a little and proceed as above. This 
liquid may be used in making the sauce, 01 it may be strained and 
kept for future use like any stock. 



80 PRACTICAL COOKING AND SERVING 

BAKING FISH 

Fish may be baked whole, in large, thick slices, or in fillets. 
The natural dryness of white-blooded fish must be obviated as 
much as possible by basting. Shad, haUbut, salmon, bluefish, 
whitefish, and bass are among those commonly baked. A fish to 
be served whole is usually trussed in an upright position. A 
fish-sheet is of great assistance in removing the fish in perfect 
shape to the platter. A very good sheet may be made by any tinner 
and sold for twenty-five cents, each, at 50 per cent, profit. Select 
a piece of tin smaller than the baking pan, to facilitate basting; 
perforate with a dozen, or more, round holes, half an inch in dia- 
meter, in alternate rows opposite each other; finish with or without 
a wired edge; wire handles at the ends are a necessity. 

STUFFINQ 

A baked fish is usually stuffed; after the body is filled with the 
stuffing, but not too full, as the material will swell, sew up the 
opening with a trussing needle. Usually gashes are cut in the sides 
of the fish into which strips of fat pork are laid. 

TRUSSING 

The fish may be trussed in a circle, or in the shape of the letter S. 
To truss in a circle, pass the tail through the sockets of the eyes, 
then run a steel skewer dipped in melted butter through the tail, 
letting the point rest on the baking dish; the head will hold it in 
place. To skewer in the shape of an S, run the trussing needle, 
threaded with a double cord, through the head, middle of the body, 
and the tail, shorten the cord until the shape desired is secured, then 
tie securely. Brush over the fish-sheet or bottom of the pan with 
oil, or butter, before the fish is set in place; or slices of fat pork may 
be used. Dredge the fish with salt, pepper, and flour. Put slices 
of pork on the top. Baste with the drippings from the pork, add- 
ing a little hot water if needed. Salmon is often enveloped in an 
oiled paper before baking, as thereby the tempering of the heat 
preserves the color. 

FRIED FISH 

Most fish are very delicate in savor, and this is conserved by 
cooking in no way as in frying; that is, if the frying be properly 



FRYING AND SAUTEING FISH 8i 

done. Small fish and fillets are most suitable for frying. After 
the fish are properly cleaned, washed, and dried, season with salt 
and pepper, roll in flour, then egg-and-bread crumb. However, 
if one has not mastered the art of frying, and fear lest she send fat- 
soaked fish to the table, do not, on any account, attempt to cook 
fish in this way; for the disorganized products evolved from fat 
raised to a high temperature are neither appetizing nor wholesome. 
In frying fish, attention must be given to three points: every part 
should be covered with the egg and crumbs, that a fat-proof cover- 
ing be formed; at the moment of immersion, the fat should form a 
crust, and this heat should be well maintained until the fish is 
cooked; and, lastly, the fish should be thoroughly drained after 
the frying has been completed. Serve on a folded napkin, or dish- 
paper. 

SAUTED FISH 

Small fish, as brook trout, or fish cut in pieces, as halibut, are 
saut6d. Dry fish, like halibut, needs stand in a marinade some 
time before cooking; wipe the fish dry, season with salt and pepper, 
then roll in flour, or in sifted bread crumbs; cook in hot fat, 
tried out of salt pork, until of a golden brown, then turn with a 
broad-bladed knife and cook on the other side. There should be 
little fat in the pan, just enough to cover well the pan and keep 
the fish from clinging. Garnish with parsley and slices of lemon. 

SPECIAL DISHES OF FISH COOKED ACCORDING TO 
THE PREVIOUS DIRECTIONS, WITH VARIATIONS 

BOILED HALIBUT 

Cook a three-poimd slice, thick rather than long, of halibut, ac- 
cording to directions previously given, about twenty-five minutes; 
drain and remove the skin and bone from the centre. Set two slices 
of "hard-cooked" egg above with boiled potato balls at the ends. 
Serve egg sauce in abowl. 

SALMON STEAKS BAKED WITH MUSHROOMS 

Have four salmon steaks cut Just below the head of the fish. 
Put some bits of salt pork on a fish-sheet (the cover of a tin cracker 
box with edge pounded flat answers),- on the pork lay two of the 



82 PRACTICAL COOKING AND SERVING 

steaks, the open ends toward each other. Remove the stems from 
half a pound of fresh mushrooms and peel the caps. Melt three or 
four tablespoonfuls of butter in a frying-pan; add a tablespoonful 
of grated onion and the caps, let cook three minutes. Set the 
caps on the salmon; add salt and pepper with bits of butter; above 
the mushrooms set the other slices of salmon, with open ends 
toward each other; pour the butter (if any) from the mushroom pan 
over the fish. Bake about half an hour, basting four or five tunes 
with melted butter. Meanwhile, chop the mushroom stems and 
peelings fine; melt two tablespoonfuls of butter, and in it cook and 
stir the chopped material until the butter is absorbed, add a cup 
and a half of cream and let simmer very gently until the fish is 
cooked. Season with salt and pepper and use as a sauce for the 
fish. 

SEA BASS, BUENA VISTA STYLE 

Have a bass weighing about foiu: poimds; scale thoroughly, wash 
and wipe dry. Cut a deep, lengthwise incision from head to tail 
on each side, and set on a buttered fish-sheet in a baking-pan; add 
a chopped onion, several branches of parsley, two cups of strained 
tomato and half a green pepper pod, cut in bits: season with salt 
and pepper and add a cup of port wine; put bits of butter on top. 
Heat to the boiling point, then let cook in a moderate oven forty 
minutes. Baste four or five times diuing the cooking. Thicken 
the liquid with butter and flom:, cooked together, and strain into 
a bowl. Remove the skin and hard portion around the stem ends 
of six or eight tomatoes and season with salt and pepper: put bits 
of butter above each and bake till tender. Slide the fish upon a 
serving-dish and dispose the tomatoes on top. Surround with 
parsley and serve. Fine-chopped parsley and a tablespoonful d 
lemon juice may be added to the sauce. 

MATELOTE OF HADDOCK AND OYSTERS 

3 or 4 pounds of haddock. 4 yolks of ^gs. 
I pint of oysters. Salt and pepper. 

4 large mild onions. i lemon. 

Remove the fillets from the haddock; cut into pieces three inche> 
by two. Cover the head, tail, and trimmings with the liquor from 
the oysters and water; add a slice or two of onion, sweet herbs, and 
a bit of carrot; let simmer to form a broth. Boil the onions, sepa- 
rately, until nearly tender, then cut in even slices. Put a layer of 



BAKED FISH 83 

onion in a saucepan; upon this arrange the fillets of fish and the 
oysters, and dust with salt and pepper; add the juice of the lemon 
and the rest of the onion slices; strain the broth over the whole and 
close the pan tightly ; let simmer very gently imtil the fillets are ten- 
der, then strain off the broth. Arrange the fillets on a hot dish, and 
pour over them the broth, thickened with the yolks of four eggs. 
Do not let the broth boil after the yolks, carefully diluted with a 
little of the broth, have been added. Fresh-water fish or sea fish, 
other than haddock, prepared in this way are excellent. The oysters 
may be omitted. 

BAKED HALIBUT 

Select a solid piece of halibut weighing about three pounds; let 
stand in a marinade about an hovur (see page 26), drain, brush over 
with butter, or cover the top with slices of salt pork. Bake about 
forty minutes, vuitil the flesh separates readily from the bone, bast- 
ing every ten minutes. Remove the skin and after shding the 
fish on to the serving dish garnish with a puree of peas. (Dried 
peas, or peas too old for other cooking may be used.) Serve with 
any of the sauces for baked fish. 

SALMON BAKED IN PAPER 

Wrap a middle cut of salmon, seasoned with salt, pepper, and 
lemon juice, in a large sheet of buttered paper, and pin the ends 
together firmly. Melt one fourth a cup of butter in one fourth a 
cup of hot water, and pour over the fish in a baking-pan. Cover 
and bake one hour in a slow oven, basting every ten minutes. Re- 
move skin and serve with Bemaise sauce. Bake in a well-buttered 
paper bag. 

BAKED HALIBUT STEAKS 

Have two halibut steaks cut an inch and a half in thickness. 
Let stand in a marinade an hour or more. Lay thin slices of salt 
pork upon a fish-sheet. Place one of the steaks upon the pork. 
Dip oysters — about half a pint will be required — in melted butter, 
then in cracker crumbs, and place upon the fish to cover the entire 
surface. Place the second steak upon the oysters, season, and 
lay slices of pork on the top. Bake thirty-five or forty minutes, 
basting three or four times with the juice in the pan, or with butter 
melted in hot water. A few minutes before the fish is to be taken 
from the oven, remove the pork and cover the top with a cup of 



84 PRACTICAL COOKING AND SERVING 

cracker cmmbs that have been stirred into one third a cup of 
melted butter. Serve, when the crumbs are browned, with oyster, 
or HoUandaise sauce and potato balls. 

STUFFING FOR BAKED FISH 

(black bass, pickerel, bluefish, haddock, etc.) 
5 oz. (i loaf) of bread crumbs. i teaspoonful sweet basil. 

1 tableqxmnful of chopped parsley, i teaspoonfxil, each of salt and 

2 tablespoonfuls of chopped onion or pepper. 

1 teaspoonful of onion juice. } cup of melted butter. 

Mix all the ingredients together. The recipe makes a rich crum- 
bly stufl5ng. For a firm stuffing add liquid, as milk, water or an 
egg. Sweet basil is the herb that is thought to best harmonize 
with fish. It is easily grown. 

STUFFING FOR BAKED FISH NO. 2 

Mix one cup and a half of soft bread crumbs, half a cup of melted 
butter, one teaspoonful of chopped olives or minced onion, half a 
green or red pepper, chopped, one teaspoonful each of chopped 
parsley and sweet basil, half a teaspoonful of salt. Also if con- 
venient add three fresh mushrooms, chopped. 

OYSTER STUFFING 

(for cod, haddock, bass, pickerel, or slices of halibut) 
§ cup of bread crumbs. 2 tablespoonfuls of lemon juice. 

I cup of cracker crumbs. Salt and pepper. 

J cup of butter. J tablespoonful of chopped parsley 

J pint of oysters. if desired. 

Oyster liquor to moisten. 

Stir the crumbs into the melted butter; add the seasonings, the 
oysters, bearded or not, and liquor to moisten. 

BONED CODFISH BAKED WITH FORCEMEAT 

Clean a codfish. Split the fish down the side opposite the back- 
bone. Slip a thin sharp knife under the backbone at the tail and 
separate the bone from the flesh the entire length of the fish and 
pick out any small bones that appear. Have ready a forcemeat, 
made of one cup and a half of pounded fish (another cod, piece of 
halibut, flounder, or salmon if a "pink" dish is desired), the whites 




PLANKED SHAD. 
Garnish: Mashed potato, radishes and parsley. (Set page 86.) 




FILLETS OF FLOUNDER AND GREEN PEAS. (See page 85.) 




BOILE.D SALMON, POTATO BALLS AND CRESS 



BAKED FISH 85 

of two eggs, salt and pepper, and two thirds a cup of cream. (See 
Fish and Chicken Forcemeats, page 232.) Lay the fish, skin side 
down, on a buttered fish-sheet, and skewer the head and tail stand- 
ing upward. Season with salt, pepper, and lemon juice. With 
forcing-bag and tube, fill in the space thus formed with the force- 
meat, making several parallel rows close to one another. Bake, 
basting with fish stock, or butter melted in hot water, about 
twenty-five minutes. Slide from the sheet to the serving dish, and 
sprinkle with sifted yolk of egg. Fill the mouth and eyes with 
parsley. To serve, cut through the centre and entire length of the 
fish, then, beginning at the head, cut out square pieces upon one 
side and then on the other. Serve with any fish sauce. 

FILLETS OF FLOUNDER WITH GREEN PEAS 

Dress and cut three flounders into a dozen fillets; dip the fillets 
in melted butter, sprinkle with salt, pepper, and lemon juice; or 
let stand in a marinade an hour or more. Fold each fillet around a 
bit of raw pared potato (this will keep the fillet in the desired shape) 
and arrange in a baking dish; half cover with hot fish stock, made 
of the trimmings, and cook in the oven about ten minutes. Dress 
the fillets, one overlapping another in a circle, with green peas, 
seasoned with salt, pepper, and butter, in the centre. Sift a cooked 
egg yolk between the fillets. Thicken the stock with roux for 
sauce. Remove the potato before serving. 

TURBANS OP HALIBUT WITH POTATO BALLS 

Have two slices of halibut cut half an inch thick; remove the 
skin and bone, thus securing eight fiillets. Dip in melted butter; 
squeeze over them the juice of half a lemon, a little onion juice and 
sprinkle with salt and pepper. Commencing with the widest end, 
roll each fillet into a " turban" and fasten by running through each 
a buttered wooden toothpick. Bake about twenty minutes, bast- 
ing with hot stock, or butter melted in hot water. Arrange crown 
shape on a serving-dish. Fill the centre with boiled potato balls 
dressed with salt, butter, and chopped parsley. Serve with Hol- 
landaise or other fish sauce. (See illustration opposite page 84.) 

TURBANS OF HALIBUT BAKED WITH TOMATO SAUCE 

Prepare as above; baste during cooking with tomato sauce and 
serve with additional tomato sauce. 



86 PRACTICAL COOKING AND SERVING 

TURBANS OF HALIBUT WITH OYSTER FORCEMEAT 

Prepare a cup of oyster forcemeat, qucnnelle, or cream, as de- 
sired. Spread the fillets with the forcemeat, then roll and bake 
as before. Or roll each fillet aroimd a plump oyster, and then 
bake as usual. Let the fillets stand in a marinade an hour before 
rolling. 

PLANKED SHAD, OR LAKE WHITEFISH 

Originally planked fish were cooked on a plank set up before a 
fire. At the present time a planked fish, steak, chicken, or other 
article is broDed or cooked in the oven (baked) in the usual manner, 
but left a trifle underdone. The article is then transferred to a 
plank made hot to receive it. Duchesse or plain mashed potato 
is set in place around the edge of the plank, the edges of the potato 
are brushed over with beaten yolk of egg diluted with milk and the 
plank set into a hot oven to brown the edges of the potato. A 
pastry bag holding a star tube is used in setting the potato in place. 
A generous quart of finished potato is needed for a fish weighing 
about three pounds. Upon removal of the planked fish from the 
oven, fin in the open spaces between the fish and potato with, cooked 
and seasoned string beans, peas, asparagus, luna beans, and an 
onion for each service. Often slices of cooked carrot are mixed 
with the green vegetables, or, the peas are set in cups fashioned from 
cooked beets. Spread maitre d' h6tel butter over the fish. Some- 
times several vegetables are mixed together before they are set 
around the fish. HoUandaise sauce is often served in a bowl. If 
the plank be set, for serving, on a platter fill in around it with 
parsley. 

BROILED MACKEREL 

Cut off the fins, split, dress and, if convenient, remove the back- 
bone; broil in the usual manner; dish on a hot platter, or on a plat- 
form of mashed potato shaped to the fish. Spread over the fish 
a partly melted maitre d'hdtel, anchovy, or green butter, or 
Livoumaise sauce. Garnish with slices of lemon and serve with 
sliced cucumbers. 

BROILED SHAD, OR OTHER FISH ROE 

Let the roe stand in marinade an hoiur; broil very slowly about 
ten minutes, basting several times with melted butter. Serve 
with maitre d'hdtel butter. Garnish with lemon quarters. 



FRIED FISH 87 

BROILED BROOK TROUT 

Cut off the fins, draw by the gills, push the handle of a wooden 
spoon along the backbone of each fish on the inside, to loosen the 
blood-vessel that lies along the spine; wash and wipe dry; cut small 
incisions on both sides, season with salt and pepper, baste with 
oil, and broil in a double broMer from ten to fifteen minutes, ac- 
cording to size of the fish. Turn every few seconds while broiling, 
to avoid burning the skin. Hold the broiler farther from the fire 
after the first few seconds. 

FRIED SMELTS 

To clean the smelts, spread open the outer gills, then, with the 
thumb and forefinger, take hold of the inner gUls and pull gently; 
the parts unfit for food are all attached to these inner gills, and 
come away together, leaving the smelt in perfect shape. Rinse 
thoroughly and wipe dry. If the smelts are small, dip in milk, 
then roll in flour, or in egg and bread crumbs; string through the 
gills on silver skewers, three on a skewer, and fry in deep fat, a 
skewerful at a time. Serve on a folded napkin with sauce Tar- 
tare. If the smelts be large, or are to be used as garnish for a baked 
fish, fasten tails in mouths with a wooden toothpick, egg-and- 
bread crumb and fry in deep fat, three, or four at a time. (See 
Directions for Frying Fish, page 80). 

FRIED BASS WITH BACON 

Scale and wash the fish thoroughly and cut into pieces; season 
with pepper and salt, roll in flour, then in beaten eggs, and, lastly, 
in fine bread crumbs. Fry to a golden brown in deep fat, very 
hot. Fry in a separate pan, or cook in the oven, in a double-broiler 
over a dripping pan, a slice of bacon for each piece of fish; lay the 
bacon on the fish, and garnish with parsley. Serve with mashed 
potatoes and sliced tomatoes, or with cucumbers. 

FRESH CODFISH, FRIED 

Select middle cuts of fish in slices about an inch thick; shape in 
disks by fastening the ends securely with wooden toothpicks dipped 
in melted butter. Season with salt, pepper, onion and lemon juice, 
and set aside in a. cool place to become thoroughly seasoned. Cover 
with bread crumbs, then with beaten egg, and, lastly, with crumbs, 



88 PRACTICAL COOKING AND SERVING 

and fry in deep fat, smoking hot, five, or six minutes. Drain on 
soft paper. Serve with Tartare or tomato sauce. 

STUFFED FILLETS OF FLOUNDERS 

Take fillets from a flounder weighing two pounds and a haK and 
let stand in marinade an hour. Spread oh one half of each fillet 
a tablespoonful of mashed potato (about one cup should be pre- 
pared) mixed with the beaten yolk of an egg and seasoned with 
one tablespoonful of butter, one fourth a teaspoonful of salt, and a 
dash of pepper. Fold the other half of each fillet over the potato, 
cover with crumbs, dip in the white of the egg beaten with two 
tablespoonfuls of water, and again cover with crumbs; insert a 
short piece of macaroni in the pointed end of each fillet and fry in 
deep fat. Drain on soft paper, and cover the macaroni with a 
paper frill. Garnish with lemon and parsley and serve with onion 
pur6e, or tomato sauce. 

FILLETS OF FLOUNDER STUFFED WITH FORCEMEAT 

Make a cream, or quennelle forcemeat, using half a poimd (one 
cup) of fish, weighed or measured after passing through the wire 
sieve. Use in the preceding recipe in the place of the potato. 
Serve as above, or with sauce Tartare. Or instead of frying the 
fillets, put them in a baking dish with a little fish stock, or salted 
and acidulated water, and bake about fifteen minutes. If stock 
be used, thicken as for a sauce, or use any sauce served with baked 
fish. 

SHAD-ROE CROQUETTES 

Cook the roe in boiling salted and acidulated water fifteen min- 
utes, drain and mash. For each pint of roe, beat together one 
fourth a cup, each, of cornstarch and butter, and cook in a cup and 
a half of hot cream ten minutes; add the juice of half a lemon, half 
a teaspoonftil, each, of salt and paprika, a few drops of onion juice, 
one egg, beaten, the roe, and, if at hand, a few mushrooms, sautdd 
and chopped; cool in a shallow dish, shape into croquettes, egg-and- 
bread-crumb and fry in deep fat. 

SHAD ROE, MARYLAND STYLE 

Put two or three roes in a well-buttered baking dish; sprinkle 
with salt and pepper and half cover with broth; add two table- 



FRIED FISH 89 

spoonfuls of butter, cut in pieces; cover the pan and cook in the 
oven fifteen minutes. Keep hot on the range until the stock is 
reduced to one cup, or less. Beat the yolks of three eggs, add one 
cup of thin cream and stir into the hot sauce very slowly; cook over 
hot water, until thickened slightly, adding, meanwhile, two table- 
spoonfuls of butter; also add salt and pepper, if required, and 
pour over the roes. Garnish with thin slices of broiled bacon. 
Other roe than shad may be cooked in the same manner. 

BROOK TROUT IN PAPER BAGS 

Dress half a dozen brook trout, weighing about four ounces each, 
without destroying shape. Fill with forcemeat and secure the slit 
made in dressing. Brush the inside of a paper bag with melted 
butter, or olive oil, and put in very thin shavings of salt pork or 
mild cured bacon, with trout above; dust with salt and pepper, then 
fold the bag and fasten closely with two clips. Bake about twenty 
minutes in a hot oven. Remove from the bag. Pass at the 
same time HoUandaise, Bechamel, or tomato sauce. 

BASS FORCEMEAT FOR BROOK TROUT 

Pound in a mortar half a pound of bass from which the skin and 
bones have been taken; add to the fish while pounding, the whites 
of two eggs, a little at a time, and pass through the sieve; add gradu- 
ally half a cup of cream. Season with salt and pepper. Use a 
forcing-bag and plain tube in filling the fish. 

SALMON MOUSSELINE 

J pound of uncooked salmon. 3 yolks of eggs. 

J cup of thick tomato, or veloutfi 4 whites of eggs. 
12 raw oysters, bearded. Salt and pepper. 

Weigh the fish after the skin and bones have been removed. 
Pound the salmon in a mortar to a smooth pulp; add while pound- 
ing the other ingredients, except the whites of the eggs. Beard the 
oysters and remove the button-shaped muscle before adding to the 
mixture. Pass the mixture through a puree sieve, and add the 
whites of the eggs, beaten to a stiff froth. Turn into small bomb 
motJds well buttered and decorated with truffles if desired. Put 
the mixture into the moulds very carefully, that the moulds, may 



go PRACTICAL COOKING AND SERVING 

be filled perfectly. Set the moulds into timbale movdds that thejr 
may stand upright; surround with hot water and let poach in the 
oven, or on top of the stove, about fifteen minutes, or until firm to 
the touch. Unmould and pour around them a cup and a half of 
white sauce, made of stock prepared with the trimmings of the fish 
and oysters, a little cream, lemon juice, and white roux. Just 
before serving beat into the sauce the remaining egg yolk. 

TURBAN OF HALIBUT WITH LOBSTER 

i pound (i cup) of halibut freed from 
skin and bone. Whites of 3 eggs, 

i pound of panada (§ cup). i cup of double dream. 

i cup of butter. 1 lobster. 

Salt and pepper. 15 cups of veloutfi sauce. 

Pound the halibut, which should weigh a full half-pound after it 
has been freed from skin and bone, to a smooth paste, adding mean- 
while, the white of an egg, gradually, then press through a pur&- 
sieve. Cook bread, soaked in water and squeezed dry, with milk 
to a paste; stir and cook tmtil the mixture forms a ball, then take 
out half a cup and add to this the butter, salt and paprika, the 
halibut and whites of eggs; then pass again through a puree-sieve. 
Beat in gradually the cream. Poach in a buttered border-mould, 
sprinkled with lobster coral, about fifteen minutes, or until firm. 
Turn from the mould and fill in the centre with the meat of a small 
lobster, cut in cubes and heated in the velout6 sauce. 

RECIPES FOR SERVING CURED FISH 
BROILED FINNAN-HADDIE 

(mild-smoked, dried haddock) 

Wash the fish thoroughly; let soak half an hour in cold water, 
skin side up; cover with water "just o£E the boil," let stand fifteen 
minutes, then drain carefully and wipe dry; brush over with butter 
or olive oil and broil over a rather dull fire about fifteen minutes. 
Turn onto a hot platter, dot with bits of butter, here and there, 
sprinkle with the juice of half a lemon and serve at once. 

FINNAN-HADDIE, A LA DELMONICO 

Prepare as before, then, when dry, remove skin and bones and 
separate into flakes. Put the flak^ fish into a buttered serving- 



RECIPES FOR CURED FISH 91 

dish and pour over it a thin white sauce equal in quantity to the 
fish; cover with buttered crumbs and baJce in a hot oven long 
enough to brown the crumbs. 

PICKED-UP CODFISH 

Let one pint of salt codfish, picked in tiny pieces, stand covered 
with cold water several hours, then drain, pressing out the water. 
Add a pint of rich creamy milk, and when scalded stir in one fourth 
a cup of flour mixed to a smooth paste with one fourth a cup of 
milk; stir constantly imtil the boiling point is reached, then let 
cook over hot water ten minutes; just before serving stir in two eggs 
slightly beaten. 

SARDINES WITH SPINACH 

I cup of fresh grated bread crumbs. Sardines. 
I cup of butter. 4 "hard-boUed" eggs. 

I peck of spinach. Salt and pepper. 

Broth if needed. 

Heat the crumbs in the melted butter; add the cooked spinach, 
chopped fijie, and the flesh (skin and bones rejected) of a dozen 
sardines; season to taste with salt and pepper; add hot broth if 
needed and thoroughly reheat. Form into an oblong on a serving- 
dish. Put sardines, from which the oil has been carefully wiped, 
over the top and hard-boiled eggs, cut into slices, aroimd the 
mound. Serve as a luncheon dish. Lemon slices are a fitting ac- 
companiment. 

SALT CODFISH BALLS 

I pint of potatoes. i cup of raw salt codfish. 

I egg. Salt and pepper. 

Fat for frying. 

Cut the pared potatoes into quarters; put the codfish, picked 
into tiny bits, above the potatoes in a saucepan and pour boiling 
water about (not over) the potatoes. Do not quite cover them 
with the water. Cook imtil tender. Drain off the water, set the 
saucepan, covered with a cloth, on the back of the range, to dry 
the potatoes. Mash thorouglily — a potato-ricer is the best 
utensil for this purpose. 

The fish should be shaken from the potatoes, as it will .not 



92 PRACTICAL COOKING AND SERVING 

readily pass through the ricer. Add salt, if needed, and pepper 
to taste. 

Beat an egg until white and yolk are well mixed; add gradually 
a little of the fishball mixture, and, when blended, return to that 
in tiie saucepan and beat thoroughly. Shape the mixture with 
the hands into smooth balls, pressing lightly into shape. Fry in 
deep fat, very hot, to an amber color. Use a frying basket and 
cook not more than five at a time. Reheat the fat after each fry- 
ing. Avoid the use of fat that has been heated many times. Serve 
with mustard, or with horseradish, tomato, or Tartare sauce. 

PLAIN ANCHOVIES 

Let the anchovies soak in cold water about two hours; dry on a 
cloth, and split open, using the hands, or a silver-plated knife. 
Discarding the bones, arrange the halves on a dish, and surround 
with fine-chopped white of egg and parsley. Serve with oil and 
lemon juice. 

STUFFED ANCHOVIES 

Prepare the anchovies as above; pound a little cooked fish of 
any kind at hand to a paste, add an equal bulk of fine, soft bread 
crumbs, and stir in yolks of eggs to form a paste; put a little of this 
mixture, seasoned to taste, between the halves of a fish; egg-and- 
bread-crumb, or dip into batter, and fry to a delicate color in deep 
fat. Garnish with parsley. 

BROILED SALT MACKEREL 

Let soak in cold water twelve hours skin side up. Drain and 
wipe dry. Brush over with oil or butter. Broil in a well-oiled 
broiler, principally on the flesh side, basting with oil or butter once 
or twice. Remove carefully to the serving-dish and pour over 
half or three fourths a cup of hot cream. Sprinkle with fine- 
chopped parsley. 

SALTED SALMON BROILED 

Let stand in cold water at least twenty-four hours, thirty-six 
hours is better. Cook as broiled salt mackerel. Salted salmon is 
particularly good when boiled and served with an egg sauce and 
plain-boiled potatoes. 



nSH RfeCHAUFF]&S <^ 

RECIPES FOR FISH RECHAUFFES 
CHARTREUSE OF SALMON 

1 cup of rice. i cup of butter. 

3 cups of milk, or stock, or equal parta 

of each or water. i pound of cooked salmon. 

\ teaspoonful of salt. Salt and pepper. 

I tablespoonful of curry powder. i teaspoonful of onion juice. 
2 tablespoonfuls of lemon juice. 

Parboil the rice in plenty of water five minutes; drain and add 
the salt and liquid; let steam vmtil nearly tender, then lightly stir 
in the butter, creamed with the curry powder and onion juice, and 
steam imtil tender; line a two-quart mould, buttered, with the rice; 
fill the centre with the salmon, flaked and seasoned with the salt, 
pepper, and lemon juice; cover the fish with rice and let steam half 
an hour. Serve with drawn-butter sauce. Garnish with hard- 
boiled eggs, cut in eighths, or add the eggs to the sauce. 

FISH CAKES 

(remnants of any fresh fish) 

Pass hot boiled potatoes through a ricer, or vegetable press; 
season with salt and pepper, two tablespoonfuls of butter, and one 
egg, beaten, to each pint of potatoes and, beat thoroughly; a per- 
forated wooden spoon is good for the purpose. Add an equal 
amount of cooked fish, flaked, either hot or cold, two or three 
tablespoonfuls of egg sauce, if any remain, or a little more butter 
and, when thoroughly mixed, shape into flat cakes. Put slices of 
bacon into a hot frying-pan and turn each slice in a spiral fashion 
while cooking. Saute the fish cakes in the hot fat, after removing 
the bacon to soft paper to drain, first on one side and then on the 
other; place a well-poached egg on the top of each cake, ciurls of 
bacon between and parsley with a radish in the centre. 

FISH CHOPS 

(canned salmon, or any remnants of cooked fish) 

If canned salmon be used, drain the oil from the can, remove the 
skin and bones and pick the fish fine with a silver fork; add a table- 
spoonful of lemon juice and a dash of paprika. Make a cup of 
white sauce, using two tablespoonfuls of butter and one fourth a 



94 PRACTICAL COOKING AND SERVING 

cup of flour (double the usual quantity of flour); add the fish 
and a teaspoonful of chopped parsley. When the mixture is 
thoroughly cold, form into chops. Egg-and-bread-cnimb them, 
adding a little chopped parsley to the crumbs. Put a piece of 
macaroni into the end of the chop, to represent the chop-bone, and 
fry in deep fat. Arrange a crouton of bread in the centre of a 
serving dish; upon this place a dish filled with sauce Tar tare, and 
set the chops against and around the bread. 

FISH A LA CREME 

Prepare a duchesse potato mixture, or use plain mashed potatoes, 
well-seasoned and beaten; shape the potato into an oval or circular 
wall on a serving-dish that will bear the heat of the oven; roll part 
of the potato into small balls and set these close together on the 
top of the wall, brush over the potato with the yolk of an egg, beaten 
slightly and diluted with a tablespoonful of milk. Have ready an 
equal bulk of cold cooked fish, flaked, and white sauce. In making 
the sauce use fish stock, or milk, or half and half; add any egg left 
after brushing over the potato. Put alternate layers of sauce 
and fish inside the wall. Cover the top with half a cup of cracker 
crumbs, mixed with one fourth a cup of melted butter. Set the 
dish in the oven over hot water about fifteen minutes, or until the 
crumbs and potatoes are delicately browned. 

FISH IN CURRY SAUCE 

Almost any variety of cold cooked fish separated into flakes, 
makes a very appetizing dish, if it be allowed to stand (over hot 
water) while it is slowly heated in a hot curry sauce. White stock 
from fish or fowl, or milk is needed in the sauce. A slice of onion 
naay or may not be sauted in the butter; a very little lemon juice 
supplies the mild acid so acceptable in curries. 

FISH TURBOT. (MRS. WILLIAM B. SEW ALL, BOSTON) 

4 pounds of codfish. i slice of onion. 

Salt and pepper. i sprig of parsley, 

i pound of flour (i cup). J pound of butter. 

I quart of milk. 2 eggs. 

A sprig of thyme. Grated cheese. 

Cook the fish in bofling, salted acidulated water until the flesh 
separates easily from the bone; drain, remove the skin and bone 



SHELL-FISH 95 

and separate into flakes while hot. Stir the flour mixed with milk 
to pour into a quart of milk, scalded with the thyme, onion, and 
parsley; cook in a double-boiler to a smooth paste, stirring mean- 
while, then strain, and add the butter and the beaten eggs. Put a 
layer of fish into a buttered gratin dish, then a layer of sauce, and 
so continue until fish and sauce are used. Have sauce for the 
last layer; cover with grated cheese and brown in the oven. 

SHELL-FISH 

BIVALVES 

"We search the ocean's clear blue depths. 
We tempt with bait and hook; 
And dose-lipped bivalves force to speak 
In measures for our book." 

OYSTERS 

Shell-fish, like fish xmprotected by shells, are classed as white, 
or red fleshed. When fresh, white-fleshed shell-fish, of which 
oysters are the principal variety, are comparatively easy of diges- 
tion, while the red-fleshed lobsters and shrimps are even more 
difficult of digestion than are salmon and bluefish. 

Oysters are in season from September to May. They are sold 
in the shell by the dozen or peck, or, after removal from the shell, 
by the quart. There are about fifty oysters in a quart. The 
freshness of an oyster is of first consideration, and, when possible, 
it is well to buy them in the shells. For transportation in bulk, 
after removal from the shell, preservatives are no longer used. 
Also ice is not added to the o)rsters — but is packed in the recep- 
tacle arotmd them, thus oysters are now received in good con- 
dition in cities remote from the sea. 

The two valves of the oyster's shells are somewhat dissimilar; 
the left, or lower valve, is deeper and more capacious; this is the 
half of the shell from which raw oysters are served; by a calcareous 
growth from this valve, the oyster is attached to foreign bodies. 
The two halves are held together by an adductor muscle, each end 
of which rests in a slight depression in the valve. This muscle is 
the white button-shaped part of the oyster; it is tough and in- 
digestible, as are also the edges, or gills, of the oyster, and both are 
often removed before cooking. When so treated the oyster is said 
CO be bearded. 



96 PRACTICAL COOKING AND SERVING 

Oysters are found in all seas at a short distance from shore. The 
favorite habitat is the tranquil waters of a bay formed by the mouth 
of a large river. Oysters from Chesapeake Bay are most esteemed 
in this country. Those taken from the coast of New Jersey and 
Long Island Sound are also in favor. 

In the New York markets, the small blue points, taken from 
the southern shores of Long Island, are in demand for service on 
the half-shell. In the Boston markets, Providence River and Cape 
Cod oysters are quite generally used. At the present day we have 
very few natural oysters; nearly all are the result of cultivation — 
the resulting stock, it is said, being superior to the natural oyster. 

Oysters are not very nutritious; they are eaten more as a "pro- 
vocative to appetite" than for their food value. 

TO OPEN OYSTERS 

Push a thin flat knife under the right, or upper valve of the 
oyster, and cut the adductor muscle. Then the right valve may 
be Hfted up and separated from the lower valve that contains the 
oyster. Put the oysters into a colander over a bowl; pour over 
each quart a generous half cup of water; inspect the oysters, one 
by one, to see that no bit of shell still adheres. Save the liquor 
to use with the oysters, or in making fish stock, or sauce. Pour 
off the liquor carefully ao sand is liable to be found at the bottom. 

CLAMS 

Clams are dug with a rake when the tide is out, in the gravelly 
mud of river mouths, the beds being exposed at low water. They 
are found about a foot below the siurface. When cooked, the 
harder part of the clam is quite indigestible. When this part is 
used in cookery it needs to be chopped, or, better still, discarded 
entirely, after it has yielded its juices to a dish. The variety 
known as Little Neck clams is served raw in place of oysters, when 
these are out of season and clams can be procured. 

SCALLOPS 

The only portion of this bivalve (scallops) that is eaten is the 
muscle of the shell. This corresponds to the adductor muscle of 
the oyster, differing, however, in point of tenderness. Scallops 
are in season from October to April. They have a delicate, sweetah 
taste, and are considered a delicious morsel. On the Atlantic 



RECIPES FOR SHELL-FISH 97 

coast they are found from Newfoundland southward. The shell 
is beautifully ribbed and zoned in varying shades of red and purple. 
This is made use of as a receptacle in cooking oysters; hence the 
name scalloped oysters, fish, etc. For scallop cocktails use next 
recipe. 

RECIPES FOR SHELL=FISH 

OYSTER COCKTAIL FOR ONE 

or 10 oysters. 2 drops of tabasco sauce. 

i teaspoonful of grated horseradish. 10 drops of Worcestershire sauce 

Juice of i lemon. i teaspoonful of tomato catsup. 

OYSTER COCKTAILS FOR TWELVE PERSONS 

Clean and chill sixty smaU oysters ; mix with three teaspoonfuls 
of fine-grated horseradish, quarter of a teaspoonful of tabasco 
sauce, two tablespoonfuls of vinegar, five tablespoonfuls of lemon 
juice, three tablespoonfuls ofv Worcestershire sauce, three table- 
spoonfuls of tomato catsup, and one teaspoonful and a fourth of 
salt. Serve in sherry glasses, in grape-fruit, or lemon shells, or in 
tomato cups. If fresh tomatoes are not at hand, cups may be 
shaped from tomato jelly. Plain tomato catsup makes a good 
cocktail sauce. 

COCKTAIL OF LITTLE NECK CLAMS IN TOMATO CUPS 

Peel and scoop out the centres of small round tomatoes; chill 
thoroughly on ice together with half a dozen Little Neck clams for 
each tomato. Mix one tablespoonful of lemon juice, one table- 
spoonful of mushroom catsup, five or six drops of tabasco sauce, 
a dash of paprika, and one fourth teaspoonful of salt, and pour 
one tablespoonful and a half of the mixture over the dams in each 
tomato. Omit the catsup if desired. 

OYSTERS ON THE DEEP SHELL 

Open the chilled oysters as directed on page 96. Serve from the 
deeper half of the shell, on a bed of broken ice, on a plate. From 
three to six oysters, no more than can be well arranged on the ice, 
make one service. Pass with these salt and pepper and small thin 
browu-bread-and-butter sandwiches. Pass a lengthwise quarter 
of lemon with the oysters on each plate. 



98 PRACTICAL COOKING AND SERVING 

BROILED OYSTERS WITH CELERY 

Marinate two dozen large oysters, cleaned and dried; drain, 
then dip in melted butter and very fine soft bread crumbs; broil 
in a well-oiled oyster broiler until ihe gills curl, then lay on slices 
of buttered toast and pour over a cup of hot cream, or of thin white 
sauce made of milk. Sprinkle the whole with fine-chopped celery 
and garnish the dish with bits of curled celery. If celery be not 
at hand, season the cream or sauce with celery salt or pepper. 

OYSTERS IN CREAM SAUCE 

I pint of solid oysters i pint of cream, or f pint of milk. 

(about 30 oysters). Salt and pepper, 

i cup of butter. J cup or more of mushrooms, 

i cup of flour. I tablespoonf ul of fine-choppedparsley. 

Scald the oysters in their own liquor. Make the sauce in the 
usual manner and to this add the oysters, strained from their liquor. 
If a full pint of milk be used, add an extra level tablespoonful of 
flour to ^at stipulated for the sauce. Cream makes proportion- 
ately a thicker sauce than milk. Oysters thus prepared may be 
served in Swedish timbale cases, patty shells, bread croustades, 
green peppers, vol-au-vent, or on toast. If canned button mush- 
rooms be used, cut in halves and reheat in the sauce with the 
oysters. If the mushrooms be fresh, prepare as usual: rub over 
with the cut side of a lemon, simmer in water until tender, then 
add with the oysters. 

OYSTER STEW 

I quart of oysters. | teaspoonful of salt. 

I quart of milk. i teaspoonful of white pepper. 

i cup of butter. | cup of cracker crumbs. 

Pour half cup of cold water over the oysters; examine, one 
by one, and remove any bits of shell, but retain all the oyster 
crabs, which are considered a delicacy. Heat the liquor to the 
boiling point, strain through ■&. piece of cheese cloth and return to 
the fire with the oysters; let heat quickly. When the oysters look 
plump and the gills begin to ciurl, skim out and put into the tiureen 
with the scalded milk, butter, pepper, salt, and cracker crumbs; 
strain in the oyster liquor, mix thoroughly and serve with a plate 
of crackers. 



OYSTERS 99 

OYSTERS IN BROWN SAUCE 

I slice of onion. i cup of oyster liquor. 

4 slices of carrot. i cup of cream. 

I sprig of parsley. J teaspoonful of salt. 

i cup of butter. A few grains of cayenne. 

5 cup of flour. 1 solid pint of oysters. 

Scald the oysters in their own liquor and drain. Saut6 the 
ion, carrot, and parsley in the butter, add the flour with the salt 
d cayenne and cook until well browned. Add the oyster liquor 
iduaily; strain over the oysters, reheat, and, just before serving, 
d the cream, scalded. The yolks of one or two eggs may be added, 
io a teaspoonful of lemon juice. Mushrooms are often cooked 
th the oysters. Serve as oysters in cream sauce. 



OYSTERS AND MACARONI 

I pint of oysters. Salt and paprika. 

I cup of macaroni broken in inch i cup of butter. 

pieces. J cup of cracker crumbs. 

I cup of grated cheese. i cup of melted butter. 

Cook the macaroni until tender (see page 304); drain and rinse 
th cold water. Put a layer in the bottom of a buttered gratin 
3h, cover with oysters, and sprinkle with cheese, salt and paprika; 
Id half the butter in bits, and cover with a layer of macaroni, then 
th oysters, and seasoning. Cover the top witii the cracker crumbs 
ixed with the melted butter. Bake fifteen minutes in a hot oven, 
rve at once. 

OYSTERS AND MACARONI, NO. 2 

I pint of oysters, parboiled. Salt and paprika. 

I cup of macaroni broken in inch i^ cups of white sauce, 

pieces. I cup cracker crumbs. 

i cup of grated cheese. i cup of melted butter. 

Drain the oysters carefully after parboiling; add to the dish, 
ernately, with the macaroni, covering with sauce and cheese, 
sish the tops with the cracker crumbs stirred into the melted 
tter. Cook ten minutes in a hot oven. 



loo PRACTICAL COOKING AND SERVING 

OYSTER PIE 

Cover an inverted shallow baking dish, holding about a quart, 
with chilled puff-paste rolled to the thickness of one fourth an inch; 
prick with a fork, that it may rise evenly in baking. Slide on to a 
baking-sheet, to keep the edge from the bottom of the oven, and 
bake about twenty-five minutes. (See Puff-paste, page 445.) Cut 
out a cover one fourth an inch thick, a little larger than the top of 
the dish, as it will shrink in baking, prick and ornament with pieces 
of pastry if desired. Place on a baking-sheet, chill, then bake 
about twenty-five minutes. Remove the paste from the baking 
dish and set in place on the serving dish. Fill with a quart of 
drained oysters that have been cut in halves, stirred into a cup of 
hot cream sauce and simmered five minutes, or until thoroughly 
heated, but no longer. The sauce will not season the oysters suf- 
ficiently, and additional salt and pepper will be needed. 

SCALLOPED OYSTERS 

I quart of oysters. i cup of bread crumbs. 

} cup of melted butter. (centre of the loaf). 

I cup o£ cracker crumbs. Salt and pepper. 

Stir the bread and cracker crumbs into the butter; sprinkle the 
bottom of a buttered baking dish with crumbs, then place on these 
a layer of cleaned oysters and dust with salt and pepper. Add, 
alternately, two more layers of oysters and crumbs and bake in a 
hot oven fifteen or twenty minutes. Garnish with toast points 
and parsley, and serve at once. Select a shallow dish for scal- 
loped oysters, as long cooking injures an oyster. 

OYSTERS BOILED WITH BACON 

Broil six slices of bacon by letting stand in a double-broiler over 
a dripping pan in a hot oven. Wash and dry a pint of large 
oysters; dip, one by one, in the bacon fat and arrange in an oyster 
broiler; cook over glowing coals, first on one side and then on tie 
other, until they look plump and the edges are curled. Serve on 
slices of toast or fried croutons. Garnish with the bacon. 

BROILED OYSTERS WITH MAfTRE D'H6tEL BUTTER 

Drain large oysters, wipe dry, season with salt and pepper, dip 
iQ oil or melted butter, and arrange in an oyster broiler; broil over 




FISH A LA CREME IN PAPER CASES. (See page 94 ) 
Garnish: Sifted yolk of egg, with ring of white above, holding a celery leaf. 




HADDOCIs;, STUFFED AND BAKED (See page 30.) 




HALIBUT STEAKS, BAKED WITH OYSTERS, POTATOES A 
LA MAITRE D'HOTEL. (See page 83.) 



^^^^= 


■v^ 










^^^^^^H^H 


bBL."''' 




'^^^I^H 


^^^^^Hk "^ 




^^^^^^^^H 


^^^KUT 4^''-'«'> 




^^^^^^^I^^^^^H 


^^^r'^^f^^' '*^ 




^^^^^^^HH 


W^'^v^^^ 




Bf 


•"■ 




^^^^^^^^i._ 


! 




^^^^■^v^ 


U^ 




^B 


fe- 




WB^ 


^^.$- 




m 


>.- 




WtkiS:'''p 


^^ 






w'% 


H 


^Hf '' 


''' fp 


hh 








\ 




'^fSF -) 



o 

Q 



19 



^ 



15 
O 

o 



p 

a< 



FRIED SCALLOPS loi 

[uick fire without coloring; dress on pieces of toast, and pour over 
litre d'hdtel butter, partly melted. 

FRIED OYSTERS 

Wash and drain the oysters and dry between two cloths; let 
,nd in a marinade ten or more minutes, then drain again. Roll 
cracker crumbs, seasoned with salt and pepper. For one pint 
oysters beat two eggs with two tablespoonfuls of cold water 
til the whites and yolks are well mixed; dip the oysters, crumbed, 
;o the egg and roll again in crumbs. Fry one minute in deep fat, 
ry hot. Use a frying basket and cook only five or six oysters 
a time. Drain on soft paper and serve at once. Serve at the 
ne time pickles, olives, celery salad, or cold slaw. When served 
a luncheon dish the centre may be removed from a small head of 
bbage; let chill and fill the open space with crisp cabbage cut fine 
d mixed with dressing. Let the cabbage rest on a folded napkin 
d around the cabbage on the napkin arrange the fried oysters. 

OYSTERS FRIED IN BATTER 

Wash and dry the oysters, which should be of large size. Dip 
batter (each oyster needs be perfectly covered with the batter) 
d fry in deep fat; drain and serve on a folded napkin; garnish 
th lemon and parsley. Let the same articles accompany the 
ih as are served with oysters, crumbed and fried. 

BATTER FOR OYSTERS 

2 eggs. A few grains of paprika. 

} teaspoonful of salt. i cup of flour. 

J to I cup of strained oyster liquid.. 

Let the batter stand an hour or two before using. 

FRIED SCALLOPS 

Cover the scallops with boiling water and keep hot five minutes 
thout boiling; drain and dry on a cloth. Let stand in a marinade 
e hour, drain and dry a second time, roll in seasoned cracker dust, 
) in egg and roll again in cracker dust; fry in deep fat until well 
ored, dress on a folded napkin and serve v/ith quartered lemons, 
with tomato sauce. 



102 PRACTICAL COOKING AND SERVING 

SCALLOPS ON THE DEEP SHELL 

Cut the scallops into squares; put these back into the deep shells, 
season with salt and pepper and sprinkle with fine-chopped fresh 
mushrooms, parsley, and buttered bread crumbs. Cook in a hot 
oven ten or twelve minutes; remove and squeeze upon each a little 
lemon juice and dress on a folded napkin, garnishing with a few 
sprigs of parsley. 

SCALLOPS IN SHELLS 

Parboil the scallops five minutes; drain and cut in cubes; measure 
the cubes, and for a pint saute a sKce of onion in one fourth a cup 
of butter; add half a cup of mushrooms peeled and cut in squares 
and let cook five minutes; add one fourth a cup of flour, and, when 
blended with the butter, add the scallops and a cup, each, of scallop 
broth and cream; let boil once, then simmer six or eight minutes; 
add a dash of paprika and a teaspoonful of butter. Put the mixture 
into buttered scallop shells, cover with cracker crumbs, mixed 
with butter, and let brown in the oven. 

CLAM BROTH AND CLAMS IN CREAM SAUCE 

Scrub and rinse half a peck of clams; put over the fire in a cup 
of cold water. Cover and steam until the shells are well opened. 
When the clams are cooked, drain off the broth, strain, season with 
pepper, reheat without boiling and serve at once. A spoonful of 
whipped cream is often served on the top of a cup of clam broth, 
but tie broth needs be very hot or the cream will cool it too much. 
Serve the steamed clams, after removing the hard parts in a cream 
sauce. Or these may be chopped and added with the soft portions 
to the sauce. Use rich milk or cream in making the sauce. A 
scant cup of sauce will suffice for a cup of clams. Serve on toast. 
Garnish with toast points. 

CRUSTACEANS 
LOBSTERS 

The American lobster is found in the northern sections of both 
the Atlantic and Pacific coasts. On the Pacific coast the lobster 
is large and without claws. The natural color of the lobster is 
usually a dark bluish green and mottled, but in sandy regions the 



LOBSTERS 103 

; slightly reddish. When boiled the color changes to red. 
bsters are caught in nets or traps and shipped to market alive. 
March the lobster begins his yearly migration from deep water 
the coast; in autumn those that are left to tell the tale of their 
inderings return again to the deep sea. During April and May 
e largest numbers are in motion. Then the fish markets are 
splendent with the vivid color of the lobster's shell, and the 
jacent country for miles around is resonant with the "buy-lobe, 
y-lobe" of the hawkers of this popular crustacean. That the 
jster's annual trip is accomplished in safety but a few times is 
tested by the average size of these creatures when they are 
ught. They have been known to reach a weight of fifteen poimds 
it a five-povmd lobster is rarely seen. As the lobster grows at the 
te of about a quarter of a pound a year, it is a simple matter to 
termine his age, and the number of times he has missed the 
mpting bait in the lobster trap. 

Probably the largest lobster ever seen was captured off Yar- 
Duth, Nova Scotia, in 1898, and sent to Boston. It measured 
arly seven feet from tip to tip of its colossal body claws; the body 
self was three feet long. The legs were about an inch in diameter. 
b.e average weight of a lobster to-day is about two poimds. 
As a general thing lobsters are boiled when taken from the trap; 
it few are seen in the markets alive. Near the coast, on order, 
luaUy for the hotel trade, the flesh is removed from the shell 
ithout preliminary boiling. Such flesh is served after one cook- 
s', a gain on the side of digestibihty. 

TO DETERMINE THE FRESHNESS OF LOBSTERS 

A lobster heavy in proportion to its size is the choice; such a 
bster is either plump and in good condition, or fresh-boiled and 
avy from lack of evaporation. A lobster in good condition 
len boiled has its tail curled, and when this is straightened out 
will fly back into place. 

TO BOIL A LOBSTER 

Sometimes a lobster is brought from market alive; it should be 
oked at once. Have in the kettle enough boiling water to cover 
e lobster. Take by the back and put into the water head first 
d as quickly as possible. Add a tablespoonful of salt and let 
a five minutes, then simmer half an hour. 



I04 PRACTICAL COOKING AND SERVING 

TO DRESS A LOBSTER 

Pull off the two large claws, and the four pairs of small claws; 
break apart the tail and the body; cut the bony membrane on the 
inside of the tail shell with a pair of scissors, or sardine can-opener, 
then spread the tail slightly and pdl out the flesh in a single piece; 
open this in the crease on the under side and carefully remove the 
intestinal vein, which runs the entire length. This vein is always 
visible, but it differs in color, bemg white, or red, or sometimes, 
from the contents, black. Tal^e the body from the shell, leaving 
within the shell the stomach or "lady." If the coral and green 
substance remain in the shell, shake them out and set aside for use. 
Pull off the woolly gills found on the body, then break open the 
body shell and remove all the bits of flesh found between the 
bones; this is the sweetest and tenderest portion of the lobster. 
Disjoint the large claws and cut the sheU, if thin, to remove the 
flesh as whole as possible. Take the meat from the small clawi 
with a skewer and leave these whole for garnishing. 

CRABS 

The species of crabs are very nimierous. The blue crab is the 
one used as an article of food. On the Atlantic and Gulf coasts it 
is found in estuaries and brackish water. Other species of the same 
genus extensively used for food are found in the West Indies and 
on both coasts of Central and South America. The common, or 
rock crabs, a large, mottled, reddish brown species, are sometimes 
sold in the markets of New England; similar species are common 
in San Francisco, and still another species is used on the European 
coast. Upon the coast of the Southern States a very large species, 
five or six inches across, is caught in great numbers for the market. 
On account of the scarcity of beef and mutton in the South, crabs 
are eaten there more largely than in the North. Crabs, as well as 
lobsters, shed their shells. Soft-shell crabs, or crabs upon which 
the new shell has not hardened, are considered a great delicacy. 
Oyster crabs found inside the shell of the oyster are another 
delicacy. As they are not found in large numbers and are very 
tiny, they are used in few dishes other than as a garnish. 

SHRIMPS 

In this country shrimps are not in general use as an artide of 
food, but they are in common use in England and France. The 



LOBSTER RECIPES lOg 

best shrimps in this country are found in Southern waters; these 
are from an inch and a half to two inches and a half long. Shrimps 
are of a grayish color, turning to pink in boiling. In the Northern 
markets shrimps are seen only after boiling. They are seasonable 
from May to October. Canned shrimps are more generally used 
than any other canned shell-fish. Shrimps are used in salads or 
sauces; they are also served, heated in a cream sauce, from the 
chafing dish. To prepare for cooking, pick off the shell and take 
out the intestinal vein. 

CURRY OF LOBSTER IN RICE CUPS 

Press boiled rice into cups. (See Rice Croustades, page 27.) 
When cold turn from the cups and remove the centres; brush over 
with yolk of egg, roll in bread crumbs and fry in deep fat; drain 
on soft paper, then fill with the following crnry: Cook half an 
onion in butter; add one fourth a cup of flour, one tablespoonful of 
curry powder and one pint of cocoanut-milk. Strain over one pint 
of lobster, cut in cubes and seasoned with salt, pepper, and lemon 
juice, and reheat before serving. 

STUFFED LOBSTER, NARRAQANSETT PIER STYLE 

2 pounds of lobster. J cup of cream. 

2 tablespoonfuls of chopped | cup of chicken stock. 

shallots. Yolks of two eggs. 

2 tablespoonfuls of butter. i tablespoonful of lemon juice. 

2 tablespoonfuls of flour. i tablespoonful of chopped parsley, 

i teaspoonful of salt. J cup of bread crumbs, 

i teaspoonful of paprika. J cup of cracker crumbs. 

A grating of nutmeg. J cup of melted butter. 

Saut^ the shallot (mild onion) in the butter without browning 
it; add the flour and seasonings, the cream pjid chicken stock (or 
stock made from the body bones of the lobster). When this bofls, 
add the bread crumbs (soft, not dry crumbs)., the meat from the 
lobster, chopped fine, and the parsley. When this is heated, stir 
in the beaten yolks of the eggs and the lemon juice. Place the 
cleaned shell of the lobster on the serving-dish, letting it take the 
natural shape of the lobster, pour the mixture into it and cover with 
the cracker crumbs, mixed with the melted butter. Set in the oven 
to brown the crumbs. Garnish the dish with parsley, fans from 
the tail of the lobster, and the feelers. 



io6 PRACTICAL COOKING AND SERVING 

LOBSTER CUTLETS 

1 cup of thick white sauce or i cup milk or stock. 

2 tablespoonfuls of butter. i egg. 

J cup of flour. I teaspoonful of lemon juice, 

i teaspoonful of salt. 2 cups of chopped lobster meat. 

i teaspoonful of paprika. 

Add the beaten egg to the sauce, the lobster meat and the 
lemon juice, turn into a shallow dish, cover and set aside to become 
thoroughly cold. Shape into cutlets, egg-and-bread-crumb and 
fry in deep fat; drain on soft paper in the warming oven. Insert 
the end of a small claw in the small end of each cutlet. Arrange 
the cutlets in a circle, overlapping one another, arovmd the large 
daws, standing in a rice croustade, or in a nest of parsley. 

LOBSTER CUTLET NO. 2 

8 ounces of lobster meat (meat from a two-pound lobster). 

f cup of panada. 5 eggs. 

3 tablespoonfuls of butter i tablespoonful tozaato sauce. 

Salt and paprika. i tablespoonful of double cream. 

Pound the lobster meat to a smooth pulp; add the panada (see 
Entrees, page 234) and butter and pound again; add lie other in- 
gredients, save the cream, and when well blended pass through the 
purfe sieve and mix in the cream. Butter cutlet moulds, sprinkle 
with sifted coral, cooked yolk of egg, or chopped parsley, then 
carefully fill the moulds with the mixture. With a wet knife 
smooth the top of the mixture. Set the moulds on a folded paper 
and surround with hot water; let poach in a moderate oven about 
fifteen minutes. Serve around a rice socle. Pass with the cutlets 
Hollandaise, or other fish sauce. 

LOBSTER A LA RUSHMORE 

Cook a shallot and four mushroom stalks, chopped fine, in a 
tablespoonful of butter. Add salt and pepper, the meat of a two- 
pound lobster, cut in cubes, and about a cup of hot tomato sauce; 
let stand over hot water until thoroughly heated, then turn into 
the clean lobster shell. Into the top of the mixture press four 
mushroom caps, peeled and saut6d five minutes in butter; pour a 
little tomato sauce over these and set in the oven about ten min- 
utes. Serve on a folded napkin, or surround with parsley. 



CRAB RECIPES 107 

LOBSTER IN CREAM SAUCE 

obster meat, cut in dice, may be mixed with an equal bulk of 
m sauce and served in patty cases, shells, etc. In making the 
;e, chicken, £sh, or lobster stock and milk, or cream, may be 
I, either alone, or half and half. 

BROILED LIVE LOBSTER 

^ith a strong, pointed knife make a deep, sharp cut at the 
ith, then draw tie knife firmly but quickly through the body and 
re length of tail; open the lobster and take out the stomach, or 
T, and the intestinal vein, which runs from the stomach to the 
eme tip of the tail. Pull off the small daws, wash carefully, 
spread in a well-oiled broiler. Broil over clear coals about ten 
utes on the flesh side, basting once with melted butter; turn and 
1 a few minutes less on the shell side; crack open the large 
re and serve at once on a hot serving-dish. Pass at the same 
i melted butter. If more convenient, the lobster may be 
ted in a hot oven about fifteen minutes. Serve half a lobster, 
I whole one of small size, as a portion. Spread with butter 
)re baking. 

CRAB RECIPES 

SOFT-SHELLED CRABS, BROILED 

Tess carefully, season with salt, baste with oil or melted butter 
broil over a slow fire; dress 6n a hot dish and cover with ravi- 
e butter. 

SOFT-SHELLED CRABS, FRIED 

ip the dried crabs into milk, then roll in flour and fry to a 
en color in deep fat; dress on a folded napkin. 

SOFT-SHELLED CRABS SAUTE'D 

oil the ctabs in flour and saute in hot clarified butter; dress on 
t dish; add a little lemon juice to the butter in which the crabs 
! cooked, strain this over the crabs and sprinkle the top with 
chopped parsley. 



io8 PRACTICAL COOKING AND SERVING 

FROQS, TURTLE, AND TERRAPIN 

FROGS' LEGS 

In the animal kingdom frogs, turtle, and terrapin rank a scale 
lower than shell-fish. Of frogs, only the hind legs are eaten. To 
prepare these for cooking, the skin is removed, after which the legs 
are parboiled five or six minutes in boiling salted, acidulated water. 
They are quite frequently served in a rich sauce with puff-paste, 
either as a filling for a vol-au-vent, or simply surrounded with 
diamonds or triangles of the cooked paste. 

TURTLE 

The name turtle is popularly (not scientifically) applied to certain 
marine reptiles, which, as does also the tortoise, resemble in many 
respects aquatic birds. Those species that are exclusively herbiv- 
orous are wholesome as food and much sought after by epicures. 
The eggs are considered a great delicacy. The calipee, or under 
part of the breast and abdomen, the liver, and fat are the choicest 
parts. The green turtle, so named from the delicate green color 
of its fat, is found in the tropical waters of America and near the 
West Indies. It feeds on succulent turtle grass and supplies food 
to thousands in the West Indies. This turtle is often five or six 
feet in length and weighs five or six hundred pounds. Canned 
clear green turtle meat makes a choice soup. Dried green turtle 
from South America is also used in soups. Half a pound of turtle 
will make soup for eight persons. 

TERRAPIN 

Diamond-back or salt-water terrapin are found all along the 
Atlantic coast, but more especially in Chesapeake Bay and its 
tributaries. Other species are numerous from Massachusetts to 
Texas, For those who buy and sell terrapin the standard length 
is six inches. They are captured during their season of hiber- 
nation, that is from November to May; they are at their best from 
December to April. The six-inch terrapin cost $1.25 per pound. 
Those of larger size are sold at a higher rate. Terrapin is always 
cooked alive by plunging, after being carefully washed, head first 
into boiling water. Remove from the water in about five minutes, 
or as soon as the thin white skin can be removed from the head 




o 




l-> 




o 






T1 













H 


n 


U) 


« 


f, 




nl 


Pi w 


o 




li( 








« 


f3 


H 


rt 


> Hi 


< 


bn 


m 


a 


J 


r, 


u 


frt 






o>< 


^ 


U-r 


<: 








^ 


J 


<! 








iJ 




tJ 




< 




s 






SARDINES. SPINACH AND SLICES OF EGG 

Garnish: Parsley and lemon. 

(See pape 91.) 




LOBSTER CUTLETS (See page 106.) 



TtJRTLE 109 

id feet, then cook without salt or seasoning from thirty to thirty- 
ire minutes. 

After dressing, the meat is cut into small squares or cubes, 
hese may be served k la Newburgh, that is, cooked in cream thick- 
led with butter and yolks of eggs, or made into croquettes, or 
itlets. Fresh terrapin is also served in soups. To dress, cool, 
raw the nails, break the shell on the flat side, at both edges and 
i&T the top of the shell, detach the flat shell from the meat, dis- 
irding everything but the flesh and the liver, after carefully cut- 
ag away the gall-bladder and the eggs. 

QREEN TURTLE RAGOUT 

Cut the meat into about an inch-and-a-quarter squares; saut6 
ich pint of squares in one fourth a cup of butter; sprinkle over one 
urth a cup of flour and stir imtil incorporated with the butter, 
len add, gradually, three cups of broth (chicken preferred), also 
sprig of parsley and thyme tied together with a bay leaf, a dozen 
irboiled button onions, a slice of bacon, cut into tiny squares, 
id half a dozen small mushrooms, peeled and broken into bits, 
jason with salt and a piece of red pepper. Let simmer until the 
eshis tender; remove the pepper and bunch of sweet herbs before 
srving. Add canned turtle at the last without cooking. 

SCALLOPED QREEN TURTLE 

Cut the meat from a small braised green turtle into quarter-inch 
(uares. For one quart of squares fry two onions, chopped fine, 

one fourth a cup of butter; sift over one third a cup of flour and 
oisten with three cups of stock; add the turtle meat and stir until 
)iling, then add the sifted yolks of two or three hard-boiled eggs, 
ixed with one fourth a cup of butter; press through a sieve and 
Id a tablespoonful of fine-chopped parsley and several fine- 
lopped mushrooms, if at hand. Fill the carapace, or deep under 
lell, with the mixture. Cover with cracker crumbs, mixed with 
elted butter and brown in the oven. For canned turtle use an 
1 gratin dish. 

FRIED FROQS' LEGS 

Dress the hind legs of frogs by removing the skin and feet; par- 
til five minutes in salted water, acidulated with a little lemon 
Ice, or vinegar. Drain; wipe dry, ^g-and-bread-crumb, &nf 



no PRACTICAL COOKING AND SERVING 

iry in deep fat. Serve on a folded napkin. Garnish with lemoii 
and parsley. 

SAUTED FROGS' LEGS (CAMP STYI,E) 

Prepare the legs as above. Roll in flour or Indian meal and 
saut6 to a golden brown in fat tried out of salt pork. 

FROGS' LEGS IN BECHAMEL SAUCE 

Prepare a Bechamel sauce and pour over the saut^ legs. Sur- 
round with toast points. 



CHAPTER IV 
Beef, Mutton, Veal, Lamb, Pork 

BEEF 

"Let beeves and home-bred kine partake 
The sweets of Bum-Mill meadow." 

— WOBDSWOEIH. 

Protein. By dii- Fuel vaL 

Refuse Water N. X6.95 {cience. Fit Ash per lb. 

Per Cent. Per Cent. Per Cent. Per Cent. Per Cent. Per Cent. Calories. 
Loin 

(medium fat) ...13.^ 53.5 16. i ij.8 17.5 .9 1.040 
Porterhouse 

Steak ^...12.7 52.4 19.1 x6.2 17.9 .8 i.iio 

SirloinSteak 12.8 54.0 16.5 16. a 16. i .9 .985 

Tenderloin. . 0.0 sg.3 16.2 15.6 34.4 -8 ^330 

Ribs 

(medium fat) ...so. 8 4i3-8 13.9 13.5 21.2 .7 ii5S 

Ribs, Rolled 0.0 63.9 19.3 18.5 16.7 .9 1.065 

Round 7.2 60.7 19.0 18.3 12.8 i.o .895 

Hind Shank s3-9 3i-3 9-6 91 5-3 -4 -405 




ui 



112 



PRACTICAL COOKING AND SERVING 



1 



O 






I 
cn 






1 



Pil 



«M a "^ £n m 

§ S o ^ 9 .b A 



1. 
I* 

o a 

il 




III 

*i'2 ^ gJ w i-« u fci 



t 



^ 







Its 13^(366 -I 2 



wE-i!2;«fe 



I 



g 






li 

i 



& 



K 



^ 



.S 

3 



.U 



11 ill 



4> cn 



3 



a 



I 



-s .s ^ '3 « 






CO 

I 



ro ^ »0^0 «^00 O^ O 



Hlodquarter 



Forequarter 



BEEF 113 

ogue, fresh or corned Boiled, braised. 

art Stuffed and braised. 

^er Boiled or fried. 

dneys Stewed (ragout) . 

il Soup, braised. 

ipe Broiled, fried in batter, etc. 

Beef dressed for the market is divided at the backbone into two 
rts, each of which is termed a side of beef. The weight of a side 
from three to five himdred pounds. Of this much less than one 
indred poimds is tender meat, suitable for quick cooking, as 
asted, or broiled meat. But while meat thus cooked is better 
iished and, oftentimes better adapted to our physical condition, 
is less nutritious than those parts that are nourished by muscular 
e and which, in consequence, secrete juice and flavor. For these 
ts long, slow cooking, with moisture, is needed to soften the 
llagen, so that the little bimdles of fibres may fall apart easily, 
len they come in contact with the teeth. 
The lean in beef of good quality is of a dark purple cdor when 
st cut, but soon it turns to bright red. It should be coated and, 
pecially the tenderer cuts, well mottled with fat. The fat in 
sef of prime quality is firm, of a light yellowish color, and crumbles 
.sily. What is fat in a good quality of meat is water in a less de- 
rable article. The neck and forequarter of an ox or sheep con- 
in more nutritive value than the juiceless tenderloin and other 
ore tender and more expensive cuts. Broth from the neck of 
utton has more flavor than that made of a cut from the ribs. So, 
30, in making chicken broth the first choice would be the legs and 
ings of the fowl. 

in all markets a side of beef is divided into hind and forequarter, 
it the point of this division, as also for other smaller divisions, 
tries in different sections of the country, and at different markets 
the same section. In New York Gity markets the division into 
nd and forequarter is so made that the thirteen ribs are included 
the forequarter. In Boston markets three ribs are included 
the hindquarter. In a few Boston markets the rump, separated 
jm the loin, is cut into roasts and stews, the upper part, or back 
the rump, giving a large and choice roast. This custom is not 
neral and is usually frowned upon by marketmen who cater 
family trade. When meat comes from the market, remove it at 
ice from the paper in which it is wrapped, wipe the outside with 
damp doth — do not wash — cut off any imsightly bits and set 



114 MtAenCAL COOONG AND SERVING 

aade In a cool place — but not directly upon the ice — until the 
time for cooking. 

ROAST BEEF 

The choicest pieces for roasting are from the rump and the loin. 
The first five ribs in the forequarter are also roasted; the first two 
ribs make a very good roast, particularly when the beef is of first 
quality. The chuck ribs are often roasted, but unless the meat is 
much better than the average, it is likely to prove imsatisfactory. 
The tenderloin is often removed whole (or divided, when the rump 
is separated from the loin) and cooked as a roast. Being dry and 
without flavor, it is usually larded and served with a rich, high- 
flavored sauce. 

Let the meat to be roasted, skewered, or tied in a compact 
form, rest on a rack in a dripping pan skin side down; dredge 
with flour and sear over the outside in a hot oven, then add salt 
and pepper and drippings and cook at a low temperature until 
done, basting — i.e., dipping the melted fat in the pan over the meat, 
every ten minutes. After a time turn the roast, to brown the skin 
side. When properly cooked the outside fat is crisp and brown, 
the lean beneath is browned to the depth of one fourth an inch and 
the whole interior is evenly red and juicy. Ribs are roasted just as 
they are cut, as a "standing roast," or boned and rolled. To serve 
a standing roast, let it rest on the ribs and cut in slices parallel to 
the bones. Before cooking tie a boned roast, rolled into cylindrical 
shape, securely. To serve, remove the cords (skewers may be 
used), place the meat, resting on one of the ends, on the serving 
dish, and cut in horizontal slides. Serve Franconia potatoes 
around the roast. 

RIB ROAST, FOREQUARTER 

Only the first five ribs of the forequarter are suitable for roast- 
ing. Remove the " eye " of tender meat, separate the outside layer 
of fat from the strip of tough lean meat underneath, and tie the 
fat about the eye securely, passing the cord around several times. 
Cook and serve as a rolled roast. Pass the tough meat through a 
chopper several times, season, and shape into. 

TENDERLOIN CUTLETS 

Season the chopped meat with salt, two or three drops of tabasco 
sauce, onion juice, and a little Worcesterahire sauce. Form int« 



BRAISED BEEF 115 

cutlet shapes about half an inch thick; egg-aQd-bread-cnunb 
and fry in deep fat about five minutes; set the fat in a cooler 
place sifter the cutlets are immersed, to avoid coloring too brown 
before the meat is cooked. Serve around a support, or a socle, of 
rice or hominy. Surroimd with slices of potato, cut lattice or other 
fashion and fried in deep fat. 

YORKSHIRE PUDDING 

li cups of pastry flour. Scant half a teaspoonful of salt. 

1} cups of milk. 3 eggs. 

Sift together the flour and salt; add the milk, gradually, so as to 
form a smooth batter, then add the eggs, beaten until thick and 
light; turn into a very hot gem pan, the inside of which has been 
brushed over with roast-beef dripping; when well risen in the pan 
baste with the hot roast-beef dripping. Bake about twenty min- 
utes. Serve aroimd the roast. Set the gem pan into a dnpping 
pan before basting. The pudding may also be baked in a snull 
dripping pan and cut into squares for serving. 



BEEP A LA MODE 

With strips of doth bind six or eight pounds of beef from the 
top of the round into circular shape. Make incisions with a sharp 
kmfe, and into these press leirdoons of salt pork half an inch thick; 
make other incisions, and press into these bread stuffing. Heat 
drippings or trimmings from the salt pork, and in this brown the 
outside of the meat; add a sprig or two of parsley, two onions and 
half a carrot, sliced, then half cover with boiluig water and let 
sinmier until tender. Five to seven hours will be required; re- 
plenishing with hot water as needed. An iron pot with t^t- 
fitting cover is the best utensil to use for this dish. If the meat 
rests on a trivet, turning may be avoided. Garnish with boiled 
onions, seasoned, basted with butter and browned in a hot oven. 
Skim the fat from the liquid in which the meat was cooked; thicken 
the latter with flour and water, strain and serve as a sauce with 
the meat. If there be considerable liquid, thicken a part, and set 
the meat aside to cool in the rest. 

BRAISED BEEP 

In the absence of a braising pan a large earthenware casserole 
u desirable. Brown five or six pounds 01 beef from the rump or 



' ii6 PRACTICAL COOKING AND SERVING 

round, on all sides in a hot frying-pan (using fat from ihe top of 
the soup kettle, or that tried out from salt pork). Sprinkle half 
a cup, each, of small cubes of salt pork, carrot, onion, and celery 
into the casserole and place the meat on these; add about a pint of 
stock or water, a bay leaf, a piece of red pepper or six peppercorns, 
and three cloves tied in a sprig of parsley. Spread a few more 
cubes of vegetables on the top of the meat and add half a teaspoon- 
ful of salt; if water be used, with seasoned stock it may be omitted. 
Put on the cover, bind a strip of cloth spread with flour paste over 
the joining of the dish and cover and let cook in a very slow oven 
about six hours. Thoroughly rinse the pan, in which the meat was 
browned, with the stock or water, to retain the browned juices 
from the meat. The meat may be dredged with flour while brown- 
ing, or a brown sauce may supplant the stock or water. Strain the 
sauce and serve poured over the meat, or in a sauce boat. Thicken 
with roux, if not already of the desired consistency. This kind 
of a casserole is not intended for table use. For a change serve 
some of the vegetables with the meat. When a dish is used from 
which the cover can be easily taken, vegetables, cut in match-like 
pieces, or fanciful shapes and blanched, may be added to the dish 
just in time to become tender. Serve these around the meat; 
celery, carrot, and, occasionally, turnip are suitable for this pur- 
pose. A cup of tomato piuree, added when the meat is half cooked, 
is often an improvement; so also is a little grated horseradish. 

FILLET OF BEEF ROASTED 

The fillet of beef is taken from underneath that part of the back- 
bone, which is included in the lower part of the sirloin and die 
rump. Ordinarily it is cut as a part of the steaks or roasts in these 
joints, and when removed whole for a fillet these steais or roasts 
are less desirable by so much. The part imder the rimip is called 
the short fillet, that under the sirloin the long fillet. When the 
whole fillet is needed it should be cut out before the division into 
loin and rump has been made. If this is not done, the two pieces 
need be skewered together. The whole fillet sells for seventy-five 
cents to one dollar per poimd; the short fillet (from the rump) at 
about thirty-five cents per pound. The rump steaks are large, and 
the loss of the tenderloin is not so apparent as it is in the smaller 
sirloin steaks, hence the difference in price. The nunp fillet weighs 
about two pounds and a half and is an economical cut for occa- 
sional use. In dressing a fillet the sinewy covering on one side and 



BEEF STEW 117 

e superfluous fat on the other are removed. It is then trimmed 
to shape and the thin end folded under. This leaves nothing but 
le-grained, tender meat. Being destitute of flavor, this must be 
ded in the cooking. Lard the whole upper surface with salt 
rk, dredge with flour and bake half an hour. Baste frequently 
th fat from the stock kettle, or salt pork, the first, on account 
the flavor of the vegetables used in the stock being preferred, 
ason with salt and pepper when half cooked. The oven needs 
very hot at first. Serve with a brown mushroom sauce (see 
ge 207). The sauce may be poured upon the serving-dish and 
e fillet placed in the centre with the mushrooms around it. Or 
e fillet may be surrounded with potato, mashed and pressed 
rough a ricer, and the sauce served from the sauce boat. To 
rve, cut obliquely rather than straight across. Serve a little 
avy and three or four mushrooms (canned button) in the centre 
each slice. For a change, it may be served with Soubise, Ber- 
ise, or tomato sauce. Mushrooms may be added to the tomato 
uce. A fillet is also particularly good served surrounded with 
matoes stuffed with mushrooms (see page 286). Serve brown 
uce, made from the liqiiid in both pans, brown roux and rich 
own stock as needed. 

CANNELON OF BEEF 

2 pounds of lean beef from top of i teaspoonful of onion juice. 

roimd. I teaspoonful of mace. 

I tablespoonful of fine-chopped i egg, beaten. 

parsley. i cup of soft bread crumbs. 

I teaspoonful of salt. J teaspoonful of pepper. 

Pass the meat through a chopper several times; add the Other in- 
edients, the egg, beaten, and the bread crumbs, wrung dry, after 
inding some time in cold water; mix thoroughly and shape in a 
U. Bake on a rack in a small pan between thirty and forty min- 
es. Baste frequently with fat from salt pork and hot water, 
rve with tomato, or mushroom sauce, or with macaroni a la 
ilienne. Saut6d mushroom trimmings, added to the caimelon 
th the other seasonings, give a pleasing variety to this dish. 

BEEF STEW 

The best cuts for a stew are those containing both lean and fat 
jat and some bone. The flaak end of a large roast, a few pounas 



ii8 PRACTICAL COOKING AND SERVING 

from the middle of the hind shin, or a cut from the chuck ribs are 
all good selections. Remove such portion of the meat from the 
bones as is convenient and cut into small pieces. Saw the bones 
into pieces of convenient size for the saucepan. These are to be 
removed before the dish is served. Wipe the bones carefully to 
avoid any bits of bone. Saut6 the meat — aU, or a part — in the 
marrow from the shin-bone, or, lacking this, in drippings, or salt 
pork fat. For two pounds of meat saut6 to a delicate color one 
onion, cut in rings, one carrot (small) cut in cubes, and a small 
white turnip, also cut small; add three pints of light stock or water, 
and half a red or green pepper; let simmer very gently three hours 
or more, until the meat is tender; remove the bones, skim ofE the 
fat and add about two pounds of sliced potatoes parboiled five 
minutes and drained. Season with salt. When the potatoes are 
tender, remove the meat to the centre of the serving dish; surround 
with the potatoes and broth. The meat while browning may be 
dredged with flour, thus giving a thicker broth. Half a cup of 
blanched rice may be added ten minutes before the potatoes. A 
pint of tomato puree (cooked tomatoes strained to exclude skin and 
seeds) may take the place. of a part of the stock or water. In 
making a stew from the remnants of roast beef, prepare a stock of 
the bones, browned fat, and unsightly portions of the roast; strain, 
remove the fat, and use with the vegetables bits of good meat and 
any platter gravy, or brown sauce remaining. The bones are in- 
cluded for the sake of the juices and flavor of flesh that may adhere 
to them. 

CORNED BEEF 

The "fancy brisket" is considered the best cut of corned beef. 
It may be known by the "selvage" on the lower side and the ab- 
sence of bones. It is dose, fine-grained meat and requires longer 
cooking than other pieces that are corned. The second cut of the 
rattle rand (see chart, page 112) contains three distinct layers of 
lean and fat of salted beef. To cook, rinse the meat in cold water, 
tie, or skewer in shape, and put over the fire, covered with cold 
water; heat slowly to the boiling point. After boiling five minutes 
remove the scum and let simmer gently imtil tender. Five to eight 
hours will be required. Remove from the water, cover and keep 
hot, while pared potatoes and turnips are cooked in the liquid. Cook 
other vegetables, as beets, cabbage, and carrots, apart. If the meat 
it to be served cold, let partly cool in the liquid in which it is cooked. 
In this case do not cook the vegetables in the meat liquor. 



BEEFSTEAK up 



BOILED BEEF TONGUE 

Cook a corned or pickled tongue in the same manner as cx>nied 
ef. Let cook untU very tender, four hours or more, then par- 
tly cool in the liquid, but remove to peel off the skin before the 
igue becomes cold. Serve cold, sliced thin. Garnish with a 
icedoine of vegetables, as peas, asparagus tips, carrots, and tur- 
3S, cut in cubes and moulded in aspic jelly. Pass mayonnaise or 
irtare sauce, at the same time, or use jelly and mayonnaise in 
)ulding. (See also Tongue Moulded in Aspic Jelly and Tongue 
Chaudfroid Sauce on pages 252 and 255). Salt the boiling water 
which a fresh tongue is put to cook; it will cook in about two 
urs; vegetables added to the water are an improvement, the 
uid may be used for soup. A boiled tongue, fresh or salt, is 
:en glazed and served on a bed of spinach k la cr^me, or of plain 
jked spinach; with the latter serve sauce piquante. A fresh 
ague may be braised (see page 16). 



BEEFSTEAK 

DESCMPTION AND NAMES GIVEN TO BEEFSTEAK 

Steaks are cut from the round — those from the top, known by 
s thick ridge of fat, being the best round steaks — from the loin, 
d the rump. Steaks from the loin nearest the forequarter are 
own as short, club, or Delmonico steaks; they are without tender- 
n, and the ffank end is small; three of them contain a rib bone 
:h. Steaks from the rump end of the sirloin are called hip or 
t-bone sirloin; they contain quite a large flat bone, flank and 
iderloin. Steaks between the short and hip bone sirloin contain 
; best part of the tenderloin. These are lie true sirloin steaks. 
ey are often called tenderloin, and, sometimes, porterhouse 
aks. A steak may be flattened, or batted into uniform thickness 
Ji a cleaver, or cutlet bat, wet in cold water. If tough, brush 
;r with a mixture of one tablespoonful of vinegar to two table- 
)onfuls of oil. The acetic acid in the vinegar softens the collagen 
i the oil, by excluding the air, keeps the meat in good condition 
Ue bacteria are softening the collagen in the fibres. After being 
IS treated a steak may stand several hours, or by repeating the 
COBS, several days, according to the season, «te. 



120 PRACTICAL COOKING AND SERVING 

TO BROIL A STEAK 

Wipe, trim off superfluous fat and flank end, bat into shape; heat 
the broiler very hot — a heavy wire double-broiler is the most con- 
venient — rub it over with a bit of the fat and put in the meat with 
the ridge of fat toward the handle of the broiler, to insure the bast- 
ing of the meat during cooking. At first hold the broiler close to 
the dear coals, count ten and turn; count ten again, then, the 
juices being imprisoned by the strong heat, remove to a greater 
distance from the fire, and continue cooking and turning the meat 
every ten seconds, to insure slow and even cooking. Have the 
dampers in the range open as in building the fire, to carry the smoke 
from the fat up the chimney. 

Steaks may be cut an inch thick, but are better an inch and a 
half thick. From five to eight minutes' cooking is needed for the 
first, and eight to ten minutes for the latter. When properly 
broiled the steak is puffy from the expansion of the collagen and 
the moisture imprisoned within; it is well browned to the depth of 
one eighth an inch, juicy and uniformly red in apperance within. 
If the length of cooking and the general appearance of the steak 
do not indicate its condition to satisfaction, place the broiler over 
a dripping pan and make a small clean cut at one end. This will 
indicate its condition conclusively. When done, remove to the 
serving-dish, which should be warm; sprinkle with salt (omit 
pepper, unless without doubt it be agreeable to all), spread with 
cold maitre d'h6tel butter (see page 219) the heat of the steak 
should melt the butter — or with hot Bernaise sauce. Mush- 
room or tomato sauce is also admissible. Garnish with slices of 
lemon, with water-cress, pepper-grass, or parsley. Serve with 
potatoes in some form. French fried, Saratoga, mashed, baked 
(white or sweet), and escalloped potatoes, are all in favor with 
steak. In Virginia a steak spread with maitre d'h6tel butter is 
accompanied by Baltimore samp, in cream sauce, with parsley. 

HAMBURG STEAK 

I pound of round steak. ' | teaspoonful of salt. 

I tablespoonful of onion juice or i egg and a dash of pepper, if de- 
grated onion. sired. 

Chop the steak very fine and mix thoroughly with the other 
ingredients; the egg may be used, or not, it helps hold the meat 
together during cooking. With hands, or knife and spoon, wet in 



CHATEAUBRIAND A LA PIERCE 121 

Id water, shape the mixture into a steak, or small flat cakes, 
ave the edges of the meat of the same thickness as the centre. 
:oiI in a deep double-broiler with wires running at right angles, 
saut6 first one side and then on the other in hot drippings or fat 
3m salt pork. Serve with brown or tomato sauce. 

UNQARIAN STEW. (MRS. T. B. WHEELOCK, MINNESOTA) 

2 pounds of lean beef, shoulder | cup of cream, sweet or sour. 

steak. I teaspoonful of salt. 

2 tablespoonfuls of vinegar. J teaspoonful of caraway seed. 

2 tablespoonfuls of fine-cut onion. | teaspoonful of sweet marjoram. 

2 tablespoonfuls of butter or suet. Paprika to taste. 

I level tablespoonful of flour. i cup of hot water or broth. 

Cut the meat in half-inch cubes, put in a granite dish (not tin), 
Id vinegar and salt, and let stand an hour or two. Heat the 
itter in a porcelain-lined iron kettle; add the onions and cook 
itil tender, not brown; add meat and spices, and cover closely 
1 the steam will not escape; let simmer slowly until the moisture 
absorbed and brown, stirring often. Add half a cup of hot broth' 
• water and the flour mixed in cold water. Just before serving, 
id the cream and shake in paprika to taste. 

CHATEAUBRIAND A LA PIERCE 

Chateaubriand, so called from a certain famous French gourmet, 
a thick steak cut from the centre of a fillet of beef. When a 
rge steak is desired, two steaks are cut from the centre of a fillet, 
it are not quite severed and when trimmed and spread open they 
)pear like one steak. Often a tenderloin steak, cut between two 
id three inches thick and skewered into a round shape, is used, 
amove fat, flank end and bone, and press the meat into a circular 
ape; flatten with a wet bat or cleaver and broil in a well-oiled 
oiler from eighteen to twenty-five minutes, turning every ten 
oonds. Turn about a cup and a half of brown mushroom sauce 
)on a hot serving dish and dispose the steak upon it and the mush- 
oms above the steak. Surroimd with stuffed tomatoes and 
een peppers. A Chateaubriand is often spread simply with 
litre d'h6tel butter. When cut thicker than three inches it is 
tter roasted, or braised. It may be roasted, then scored with the 
res of a very hot broiler. 



las PRACTICAL COOKING AND SERVING 

FLANK STEAK 

Embedded in fat, below the sirloin, is a thin strip of lean meat 
weighing about two pounds, called flank steak. This sells for 
about twenty-five cents. It is comparatively juicy, but lacking 
in flavor. The dealer pulls off the fat and thin slun underneath, 
and then scores the outside upon both sides diagonally. Broil 
about six minutes. Serve with a brown, or tomato sauce. This 
steak is often spread with highly seasoned bread dressing, then 
rolled up tightly and braised with vegetables and a small quantity 
of liquid in a casserole. 

TO PICKLE TRIPE FOR OCCASIONAL USE 

Wash tripe from creature freshly dressed, changing the water 
several times; dust the dark inside coat with quicklime and scrape 
at once. Cut in four pieces, dip in boiling water, and scrape until 
perfectly white. Wash in water slightly salted; then soak five or 
six days in water, slightly salted, changing the water daily. For 
immediate use, simmer in water until tender; if it is to be kept, 
boil eight or ten minutes, then drain and cover with hot vinegar. 

To prepare pickled tripe for serving in any manner: wash thor- 
oughly in cold water, then simmer imtil tender in equal parts of 
milk and water, or in water alone. 

BROILED TRIPE 

Simmer a pound of pickled tripe (the honeycomb tripe is best) 
two or three hoiu-s, or imtil tender, in sufficient milk and water to 
cover. Drain, wipe dry, and cut into pieces for serving. Dip 
each piece in melted butter or oil, season with salt and pepper, and 
broil over a clear fire until well colored. Serve with tomato or 
Tartare sauce. 

CURRIED TRIPE 

Brown an onion, cut into rings, in one fourth a cup of butter; 
to this add one pound of tripe, prepared as before, and cut in small 
pieces, also broth to cover nearly and simmer until tender. Mix 
one tablespoonful of flour with one tablespoonful of curry 
powder; dilute with half a cup of cream, and, when smooth, stLr 
into the tripe and cook about ten minutes, stirring often. Turn 
on to a hot dish and g,amish with croutons of fried bread. 



OK TAE,, BRAISED 133 

TRIPE, POULETTE STYLE 

Saut6 an onioa, chopped fine, in one fourth a cup of butter, 
■hen well colored add one pound of tripe, cut in small squares, 
ason with half a teaspoonfid, each, of salt and paprika, and sauti 
itil the mixture has evaporated; add one fourth a cup of flour, and, 
ben this is absorbed by the butter, gradually a scant pint of stock, 
ith a sprig of parsley, or a grating of nutmeg. Boil three or four 
inutes, then simmer until the tripe is tender. Beat one table- 
loonful of butter to a cream, add the yolks of two eggs and one 
blespoonful of lemon juice and stir into the mixture without al- 
wing it to come to a boil. Serve at once. 

OX TAIL, BRAISED 

Separate an ox tail into pieces at the joints, having each piece 
)out three inches in length; saut6 in hot butter or drippings with 
sliced onion, a sliced carrot (half if the latter are large) and about 
1 ounce of raw ham, fine chopped. When all are well browned, 
imove to a casserole and add a sprig of thyme, half a bay leaf, 
id also, if at hand, about half a chopped or shredded pepper, 
rown one fourth a cup of flour in the pan, add a pint, each, of 
>matoes and stock, and, when boiling, pour over the joints in the 
isserole; let cook about three hours; add a glass of sherry wine, 
lore seasoning if needed, and half a can of peas, if a cup of fresh 
)oked peas be not at hand. For variation omit the tomato, using 
ock in its place. The thickening may also be omitted. The 
lints may be egg-and-bread-crumbed and fried in deep fat. 
hus cooked, serve with tomato sauce, or sauce Tartare. 

MUTTON AND LAMB 

'Pray you, who does the wolf love?" — Coriolams, z, i. 

/ERAGE CHEMICAL COMPOSITION OF MEDIUM FAT MUTTON AND 

LAMB AS PURCHASED (aTWATEr) 

Protein Fuel Val. 

Refuse Water NX 6.25 Fat Ash per lb. 



UCTTON Per Per Per Pet Per Cat 

Cent. Cent. Cent. Cent. Cent. oties. 



!g, hind 18.4 SI. 2 15,1 14.7 

)in 16.0 42.0 13. s 28.3 

loulder 22.5 47-9 i3-7 ^SS 

Laub 

:east 19.1 45.5 15.4 191 

«, hind 13.4 47.3 iS-8 23.7 

>In 14.8 45.3 16.0 24.1 



S .900 

7 1-445 

7 -910 

8 i.ogo 
8 1.29s 
8 I. 315 



IJ34 



PRACTICAL COOKING AND SERVING 



All kinds of meat when first slaughtered are tender, butsooa 
stiffen owing to the clotting of certain proteids in composition, 
which were liquid during life. After being kept, or, technically 
speaking, "hung" for some time, meat becomes more tender, due 
to the tearing-down processes of bacteria. Beef should hang in a 
dry cool place for at least three weeks, and mutton much longer. 
In England the Christmas "shoulder of mutton" is hung for six 
weeks, being rubbed over every few days with salt and vinegar. 
Mutton and lamb are often cut into "sides" in the same manner 
as beef, but occasionally, the first division is made to include the 
two forequarters in one piece and the hindquarters in the other. 









MUTTON 




1 


Cuts 

1 Shoulder. 


yScrag End. 


Weight 
5 to 8 pounds. 

2jt0 4 " 


How Cooked 
(Braised, steamed 
t boiled. 
Stew, broth. 


n 


(Neck. 


(Cutlet End. 


2it0 4 


(f 


Stew, steamed. 


§{ 


'Leg. 




8 to 9 


u 


Boiled, roasted. 


|! 


■ Loin. 


Best End. 
Chump End. 


3 to 4 
2 to 3 


(t 
«( 


Cutlets or roast. 
Cutlets or roast. 


S| 


^.Saddle. 




10 to 14 


ti 


Roa^t. 



This division gives means for the cutting of a " saddle " of mutton 
or lamb. A sheep two or three years old, or even older, supplies 
the best mutton. Lamb is from a creature six to twelve weeks old. 
Mutton is a staple. Lamb appears in market as early as January, 
but is high in price even at Easter, when spring lamb with mint 
sauce and green peas are considered, time out of mind, the most 
recherche of Easter dinners. But lamb two months old is dear 
at any time, and dearer still are peas in April, which are grown in a 
hothouse. The flavor of neither the lamb nor the peas will, in 
general, compensate for the price; so a roast of mutton — saddle, 
crown, or leg — and new string beans, grown more easily than 
peas, will more frequently appear in evidence on this day. 

CUTS OF MUTTON AND LAMB 

When mutton and lamb are divided into sides and then into 
fore and hindquarters, eight ribs, instead of three, as in beef, are 



LEG OF MUTTON, ROASTED 133 

left on the hind-quarter. These eight ribs, cut in chops, are the 
rib chops; chops cut between these and the leg are the loin, kidney, 
or English chops. These chops correspond to the tenderloin steaks 
in beef and, though smaller, are identical in shape and general 
make-up, having flank end, kidney fat, tenderloin, and lean, tender 
meat above the tenderloin. Rib chops, which have the bone 
shortened and scraped dean of meat nearly to the "eye," or kernel, 
are known as French chops. The hind leg, with what corresponds 
to the round of beef, is sold as leg of lamb, or mutton. It is roasted 
or boiled. Roasted or boiled mutton is served a Uttle underdone; 
lamb, like veal, is preferable when thoroughly cooked. The fore- 
quarter is sold entire, or cut into shoulder and "scrag" (neck 
piece). This may be boiled or steamed, then browned in the oven. 
Before cooking it may be boned and rolled. It is also used for broth 
or stew. For a "saddle "the loin is removed whole. "The crown" 
is fashioned from the ribs on corresponding sides. 

The fat of mutton of good quahty is much whiter than that of 
beef. The bones of mutton are white, of lamb red. 

People who think they dislike mutton would be surprised at the 
diEEerence in taste brought about by a little attention to simple 
details in cooking. The strong flavor attributable to mutton is 
largely centred in the pink outer skin. This, as also the caul, 
which is usually skewered about the leg and saddle, should be 
carefully removed before cooking. In roasting place the joint 
upon the rack (not upon the bottom of the dripping pan in the 
melted fat) and baste with drippings from salt pork, if preferred. 
The loin is rather more delicate in flavor than the leg, but the latter 
is the more economical piece to buy. 

LEQ OF MUTTON ROASTED 

Remove the caul, pink skin, and superfluous fat; cut the leg 
bone short, set into a hot oven for fifteen minutes, then reduce the 
heat, dredge with salt, pepper and flour, and baste with bacon or 
salt pork drippings and hot water. Cook about an hour and a 
half, longer if liked well done. Dress the bone with a paper frill 
and surroimd on the serving dish with buttered string beans. 
Frahconia potatoes, white turnips, parboiled and then cooked and 
basted with the meat, are also served acceptably with mutton or 
lamb. Currant jelly, spice currants, bananas, baked or fried, or 
in fritters, are all appropriate with roast mutton. The loin being 



126 PRACTICAL COOKING AND SERVING 

thinner — especially if the kidney and fat aurrounding it b« r»> 
moved — may be roasted in less time. 

BONED-AND-STUFFED LEG OF MUTTON 

It is but the work of a very few minutes to remove the bone from 
a leg of mutton. Fill the open space with a bread dressing, highly 
flavored with sweet herbs or poultry seasoning, and salt and 
pepper. Sew the meat into a compact shape and roast about an 
hour and three quarters. Serve as above. What is "left over" 
is good cold. Add an egg to the dressing, if much of it is to be 
served cold. To bone, cut off the leg at the joint corresponding to 
the knee, loosen the flesh aroimd 1±ds joint and with fingers and 
back of a small knife push the meat away from the bone at least as 
far as the next joint. Then reverse the leg and push and cut the 
meat from the hip bone, and so on until the meat is detached from 
bone throughout, when it may be puUed out from above. 

SADDLE OF MUTTON, ROASTED 

The saddle may be cut either with or without the flank. The 
flank is more satisfactory cooked some other way, but the saddle 
presents a better appearance when the flank is retained; it is often 
rolled up on each side and kept in place by stitches in thjree or four 
places. If the flank be thus rolled, to insure thorough cooking, 
this side of the saddle should be placed uppermost — that is, to 
the greatest heat — when the joint is first put into the oven, or 
rather after the initial process of searing over the outside has been 
completed. All superfluous fat should be removed. Dredge with 
salt, pepper, and flour; cook from one hour and three fourths to 
two hours and half. Garnish with rings of cooked carrot holding 
a^aragus, or with turnip cups, glazed and filled with aeamed 
peas, or asparagus tips. Carve in long slices parallel with the 
backbone, then turn the knife and cut down to the rib bones. Turn 
the saddle and cut the tenderloin, also, in slices, parallel to the 
backbone. The tenderloin may be carefully removed, cut in slices, 
and returned to place, before the joint is sent to the table. Let 
currant jelly accompany the dish. 

CROWN ROAST OF MUTTON OR LAMB 

A crown roast is the most easfly served and, at the same time^ 
is the handsomest roast that has been devised. It may be fash* 



MUTTON OR LAMB STEW 127' 

ioned from a full loin, but is of more perfect shape when cut from 
both loins and fastened together at the sides. Cut the same 
number of ribs from both sides of a rack of mutton, selecting ribs 
on one side that correspond to those on the other. Cut the ribs 
apart at the backbone, but separate the chops no farther. Trim 
the bones as for French chops, removing the trimmings to make 
the meat on the chops of uniform height. Or leave the trimmings 
on each side in one piece and roll this over and over backward. 
When the ends are joined, a circle or crown of meat is formed. If 
necessary, trim the bones, to make all the same in length. Cover 
the ends of the bones securely with strips of salt pork. Rub with 
salt, or add the salt when partly cooked. Set in a hot oven ten 
or fifteen minutes, then reduce iJie heat, and, if necessary to keep 
the dripping from burning, add hot water. Baste with the drip- 
ping, and cook from forty-five to sixty minutes, basting often. II 
convenient, press a cup into the centre of the circle of meat, to in- 
sxu-e its shape. To serve, fill the centre from which the cup has 
been taken with green peas, blanched chestnuts, cooked tender 
in stock and glazed, Saratoga, Bernhardt, or French fried potatoes. 
A crown roast usually sells for twenty-five cents per pound, the 
flank being included in weighing the meat. Often the flank is 
not sent with the crown imless by special request. As the flank 
makes up nearly half the weight paid for, it should be claimed, 
being good for a stew. 

BOILED MUTTON 

The leg and shoulder are the pieces usually boiled. Put over the 
fire, barely covered with boiling water, and let boil about ten min- 
utes, then simmer imtil tender; season with salt when half cooked. 
A few slices of onion, carrot, and turnip, or two or three stalks of 
celery, may be added while cooking. When tendecj brush over 
the meat with drawn-butter sauce and sprinkle with fine-chopped 
parsley. Serve with drawn-butter sauce, to a cup of which two 
tablespoonfuls of capers or chopped pickles have been added. The 
broth makes a particularly good tomato soup. 

MUTTON OR LAMB STEW 

2 or 3 pounds neck of mutton or A sprig of parsley with a bay lea^ 

lamb. cloves and peppercorns. 

3 or 3 tablespoonfuls of dripping. Salt 

3 onions. 6 potatoes. 

I canot. I pint of tomato pur6e. 



128 PRACTICAL COOKING AND SERVING 

Cut the meat into pieces two inches square, stir and brown in 
the hot dripping, add the onions, cut in pieces, with the spices and 
parsley and water to nearly cover the meat, and let simmer about 
two hours, then add the carrot, pared and sliced with a handy slicer 
(this gives a fluted edge), the salt, potatoes, cut in thick slices, and 
the tomato puree; let simmer very slowly, until the meat and 
vegetables are tender. Wrap the bay leaf, doves, and pepper- 
corns in the parsley, to remove aU together. A piece of red pepper 
is preferable to the peppercorns. If more water be needed, add it 
cautiously, as a thin stew is not desirable. If lamb be used instead 
of mutton, the time of cooking should be shortened one half or 
more. Green peas, about a pint, are a pleasing addition to a lamb 
stew. The tomato may be omitted or not. 

MUTTON CHOPS, BROILED 

Mutton chops should be cut at least an inch thick; trim off super- 
fluous fat; the small flank ends of loin chops may be cut off for the 
soup kettle, or skewered around the rest of the chop. The bones 
of rib chops should be trimmed to uniform length, then scraped 
dean down to the eye of tender meat. Or the meat, pushed from 
the bone, may be slit lengthwise a short distance, pulled over the 
rib bone (the sUt lets the bone through) and then around the chop 
and a tiny wooden skewer dipped in melted butter will hold it 
in place imtil it is cooked. Wipe the chops very carefully, to re- 
move bits of crushed bone, and broil in the same manner as beef- 
steak, about eight minutes. When done, spread with butter and 
sprinkle with salt and pepper. Dress in a cirde, one overlapping 
another, with potato balls, straws, chips, or green peas, or string 
beans, in the centre of the dish. Blanched chestnuts, cooked in 
broth, the broth then thickened with brown or white roux are good 
as an occasional accompaniment to chops. So also is a puree of 
onions. Or arrange the chops against a mound of mashed potato 
or chopped spinach. Rib chops are improved in appearance and 
may be handled (in eating) more conveniently, if the end of the 
bone be covered with a paper chop-frill. These cost about forty 
cents per hundred, or they may be fashioned at home. 

ROAST LAMB 

Either the fore or hindquarter of a spring lamb may be roasted; 
the hindquarter is more easily caxved, but the price is twice ^at 



MUTTON CHOPS IN CASSEROLE 129 

of the forequarter. Eighteen minutes to the pound with frequent 
basting will be required for cooking. The accompaniments are 
mint sauce, new string beans, asparagus, or peas. 



MUTTON CHOPS, FRIED 

Prepare the chops as for broiling; rub each side of the chops with 
the cut side of an onion, sprinkle with salt and pepper if desired, 
then egg-and-bread-crumb and fry in deep fat five or six minutes. 
Move the fat to the back of the range, after the chops are immersed 
in it, to complete the cooking. Serve as above. Pass tomato 
sauce with the chops. 'Trenched " chops are usually preferred 
ior this dish. 

PAN-BROILED MUTTON CHOPS 

Prepare the chops as usual, but trim off the fat rather more 
closely. Put the chops in an iron frying-pan, heated very hot. 
Turn as soon as the imder side is seared over and sear the other 
side; turn often and cook from six to ten minutes. When all are 
cooked, arrange against the side of the pan and brown the fat on 
the edge. Spread with butter, and sprinkle with salt and pepper. 
Tomato sauce is usually acceptable with these chops. 

MUTTON CHOPS IN CASSEROLE 

For this dish six or eight chops from the forequarter may be 
used. Saute in butter or dripping imtil lightly browned, first on 
one side and then on the other. Put into the casserole on a bed of 
vegetables — an onion, one small carrot, and a tiu-nip, cut into 
small pieces and sauted to a golden brown; add broth or water just 
to touch the chops and also a little salt; coyer tightly and let cook 
imtil tender. About two hours will suffice. A few mushrooms 
are an addition to the dish. Dried mushrooms, soaked over night 
in cold water, may be used. Serve from the dish. Sauce thickened 
with roux may be used instead of the stock or water; or cornstarch 
diluted with water may be added just before serving. The chops 
and vegetables may be cooked without browning, and cucumbers, 
cut in balls or olive shape, may be added instead of the mush- 
rooms. In this case, when the cucumbers are tender, thicken the 
sauce and add a generous half cup of cream. 



13© PRACTICAL COOKING AND SERVING 

MUTTON CHOPS A LA MARECHALE 

Season French chops with salt and pepper and saute in clarified 
butter; let cool under a weight, then lightly spread both sides of 
the chops with a thin layer of crushed and chopped garlic, chopped 
shallot, mushrooms and parsley sauted in butter and simmered 
until the moisture has evaporated, then added to a brown sauce. 
The proportions for the fine herb mixture are: one clove of garlic, 
four ounces of shallot, one poimd of mushrooms and an oimce of 
parsley, to one cup of sauce. When cool, cover with a thin layer 
of chicken quenelle forcemeat (see page 233), then egg-and-bread- 
crumb, using equal parts of beaten yolk of egg and melted butter 
instead of whole eggs. Dispose on a baking tin, pour over a little 
clarified butter, and reheat in the oven. Cover the bones with 
frills and dress crown-shape on a rice croustade. Fill the centre 
with broiled mushroom caps (two inches across). Serve the rest 
of the fine herb sauce, diluted with brown stock, as a sauce, adding 
seasoning and flavoring as needed. 

LAMB CHOPS X LA CATALANE 

It luab chc^. i cup of cooked lean ham clu^iped. 

i pint of thick Bechamel sauce. Butter. 

Paprika. Tomato sauce. 

} cup of cooked musbiooms chopped. Red pepper, shredded and cooked. 

Trim the chops rather close, paring the bones French fashion. 
Broil on one side only, having that side the same on all the chops. 
Saut6 the mushrooms and cook in a little broth; use this broth with 
white stock in making the Bechamel sauce; use also twice the flour 
usually given for a pint of sauce. Season highly with paprika; 
add the mushrooms and ham and let become cold. Cover the 
cooked sides with a layer of the preparation, having it dome 
shaped. Arrange these in a buttered baking pan, pour melted 
butter over the tops and finish cooking in a hot oven. The sauce 
needs be thick to avoid spreading too much. Cover the ends of the 
bones with frills and (fress in two rows, one chop overlappinj 
another, on a serving dish, covered with a dish paper. Serve wii 
tomato sauce apart, to which half a red pepper, cooked and 
shredded, is added. 

LAMB CHOPS A LA BUSSY 

Use mushrooms, sweetbread, and chicken or duck liver cut in 
quarte»'-inch cubes in Allemande sauce. Cover or not with chicken 



VEAL i^i 

forcemeat and proceed as in the recipe above. Serve with cream, 
or Bechamel sauce. These dishes are often convenient, as they 
furnish a more substantial service than a plain lamb chop, and 
may be prepared, ready for the final cooking, some time in advance. 

LAMB OR VEAL KIDNEY STEW 

Split a pair of fresh kidneys in halves. Take out the white fat 
and the sinew from the centre. Cover with cold water and let 
heat over a moderate fire. Just before the boiling point is reached, 
drain froni the water and cut into small pieces. Cover again with 
cold water and heat again, being careful that the water does not 
boil, or the kidneys will harden. Brown two tablespoonfuls of 
butter in the frying-pan, add two tablespoonfuls of flour and brown, 
then stir in gradually one cup of stock or water. Stir and cook 
several minutes, then add salt, pepper, kitchen bouquet, and one 
tablespoonful of mushroom catsup, and the slices of kidney. Stir 
until the slices are thoroughly heated, then remove from the fire. 
Add four tablespoonfxils of sherry, and serve with a tablespoonful 
of fine-chopped parsley, sprinkled over the top. If the water about 
the kidney boils, long cooking will be needed, to render them 
tender. 

VEAL 

" If you could be drawn to aSect beef, venison, or fowl, it would be far 
better." — BEAnuoNi akd Fletchee, 

average chemical composition of veal as purchased 
(atwater) 





Refuse 

Per 

Cent. 


Water 
Per 
Cent. 


Protein 

NX6.SS 

Per 

Cent. 


Fat 
Per 
Cent. 


Ash 
Per 
Cent. 


Fuel Val 
per lb. 

Calo- 

ries 


Bteast 


..21.3 


S2.0 


lS-4 


II. 


.8 


7SP 


Leg 


. . 14-2 


60.1 


ISS 


7-9 


•9 


620 


Loin 


..16.S 


S7.6 


16.6 


9- 


■9 


690 


Shank, hind . 


. .62.7 


27.8 


7-7 


II. 7 


•4 


aiS 


Liver 




730 


19.0 


S-3 


1-3 


57S 



Veal and lamb, being immature, are not as nutritious as beef 
and mutton, nor are they as digestible. Like pork, veal needs be 
thoroughly cooked to be at all wholesome. The lean of good veal 
is of a pinkish color, the fat is white. Veal is lacking in flavor; its 
popularity, however, is due to this fact and to its deBcacy of tert- 



132 PRACTICAL COOKING AND SERVING 

ure. Both of these facts render veal desirable as a foundation for 
"made" dishes. 

Veal is cut up in a manner similar to that in which mutton is cut. 
The hind quarter is divided into loin and leg. From the leg is cut 
the " fillet," "fricandeau" and cutlets. The "knuckle" of veal is 
that part of the leg just about the knee bone; the shank is below, 
and cutlets or a fillet may be cut above. The loin is more delicate 
and less dry than the leg, but it is not as econornical; this can be 
seen by a glance at the chemical composition. It is used as a roast, 
or in chops. The breast is used for a roast, the knee and knuckle, for 
soups and stews. Veal is rich in gelatine, and a soup stock in which 
it is present usually jellies when cold. The flavor of pork seems 

W&ys of cooking. 
("Knuckle. Soup stock, stews. 



Sfg. Leg. j Cutlets or fillet or ) Saut6 or roast, 

o- J (.Cutlets and fncandeau. ) 

p (.7. Loin. Chops and roasts. 

{o. Head. Soup, made dishes. 

6. Breast. Stew, gelatine. 

S. Ribs. Stew. 

3. Shoulder. Stew. 

I. Neck. Stew or stock. 

Brains Made dishes, chafing dish 

Liver Broiled, saut6d, mock Pate Foie Gras. 

Heart Stuflfed, baked. 

Tongue Boiled, braised. 

fSautfid 
Sweetbreads Parboiled \ Fried. 

(.Made dishes. 
Kidneys Boiled, stew. 

particularly well adapted to veal, and pork is usually chosen eithei 
alone, or with other flavors to make up for the deficiency of veal ia 
this respect. When roasted or braised a fillet and a fricandeau art 
larded, or daubed with pork; sometimes a stuffing is used in the 
place of the pork, any cavity from which a bone can be taken af- 
fording a convenient place for its entrance. The stuffing may be 
seasoned with sweet herbs, parsley, onion, mace, diopped mush- 
rooms, and grated lemon. In England a fillet of veal is simmered 



FILLET AND FRICANDEAU, BRAISED 133 

in equal parts of milk and water, the liquid is thickened for a sauce, 
and to this parboiled oysters are added. The brains and sweet- 
breads are considered choice delicacies; both spoil quickly, and 
should be cooked without delay. Soaking in cold water is followed 
by parboiling in hot water, salted and acidulated, after which they 
may be kept for some little time. The points to be remembered 
in the cooking of veal are: flavor is to be added, and, to insure 
digestibility, long, slow cooking is required. 

VEAL ROASTED 

The fillet, a slice five or six inches thick from the heaviest part 
of the leg — the part corresponding to the " round " in beef — is the 
most economical piece to buy for roasting, for cutlets, or made 
dishes. The fricandeau, or best part of tifie fillet, is sometimes 
served separately as a roast. Other roasting pieces are the "best 
end of neck," "lorn," and chump, corresponding to ribs, sirloin, and 
the combined "aitch-bone" and rump in beef. To roast, remove 
bones, fill the space with bread stuffing (see previous paragraph) 
nnd with tape bind the meat into a compact shape. Lard the 
ixicandeau, and spread thin slices of salt pork over the other cuts; 
dredge with salt, pepper, and flour. Put the meat into a hot oven, 
after fifteen minutes' cooking, lower the heat, baste frequently 
and allow at least twenty minutes to the pound; longer cooking 
will do no harm, if the heat be gentle and the joint be basted fre- 
quently. The fillet in particular is liable to be dry, imless it be 
freely basted. After the meat has been removed from the pan, 
add two tablespoonfuls of flour to two tablespoonfuls of fat left in 
the pan, cook until frothy, then dilute, gradually, with one cup of 
water, or stock, let boil six or eight minutes, strain and serve as 
sauce. Green, French beans (flageolet) are particularly good to 
serve with roast veal, or mutton. The dried beans are always in 
the market, and sell for about thirty cents a quart. A cup of beans 
when cooked are sufficient for a f ainily of five or six. They may be 
put to soak in cold water, or cooked without previous hydration. 
When tender and the water has evaporated, toss over the fire with 
butter and paprika. Add salt when perfectly cooked. 

FILLET AND FRICANDEAU, BRAISED 

As the cutting of a fricandeau, which is the best part of the fillet, 
makes it impossible to cut a fillet from this quarter, the price is 



134 



PRACTICAL COOKING AND SERVING 



correspondingly high. This makes it a piece of distinction and, 
whether roasted or braised, it is usually larded on the best or smooth 
side. Put in the casserole (use cheap earthenware not designed for 
table service) on a bed of salt pork, carrot, onion, turnip, and 
celery; add a "fagot" (see page 22) and stock, or water to one third 
ie height of the meat, and spread more vegetables over the top; 
cover closely and let cook very slowly about two hours, then, if 
the meat be nearly tender, remove the cover and brown the lar- 
doons. Strain and thicken the gravy to serve with the meat. 
Spinach puree accompanies a fricandeau. When convenient, it 
is an improvement to glaze the meat with reduced stock. 

VEAL CUTLETS 

Speaking accurately, cutlets are what has been previously dea 
ignated in speaking of mutton as chops; cote, from which cutlet 
is derived, means a rib, and properly a piece containing a rib is a 
cutlet. However, in cutting veal, a sUce from the leg is quite 
generally termed a cutlet by marketmen and housekeepers. Veal 
cutlets, each containing a rib bone, are cut so that when flattened 
with the wet cutlet bat each will be half an inch thick. Brush over 
with olive oil, or melted butter, and broil eight minutes; if dipped 
in fresh white bread crumbs broil nine minutes. Serve half a cup 
of tomato or mushroom sauce with each cutlet, or use a generous 
allowance of maitre d'hfitel butter. 



VEAL CUTLETS, NO. 2 (PAPILLOTES) 

Trim the chops neatly and flatten as before. Saute in butter 
six minutes on each side. Remove from the fr3dng-pan and add 

one fourth of a cup flour; 
when frothy add a cup of 
broth gradually; let boil five 
minutes, then strain over 
three tablespoonfuls of fine 
herbs (see Mutton Chops a 
la Mar^chale), and let sim- 
mer five minutes. For each 
cutlet cut a sheet of letter 
paper heart-shape (see di- 
agram) large enough to leave of margin an inch and a half 
around the cutlet ; oil the paper, lay on it first a thin slice of bacon, 




Veal Cutlet in Papillote 



VEAL POT PIE 135 

add a tablespoonful of sauce, then a cutlet, another spoonful of 
sauce and above all a second slice of bacon. Fold the paper, and 
turn down the edges securely, as shown in the illustration. Broil 
the cutlets thus prepared over a slow fire about fifteen minutes, 
turning often, to avoid setting fire to the papers. To insure suc- 
cess, cut the papers large enough and fold them securely on the 
edges. If a double-broUer be used, let it be one having plenty of 
space between the hinges, to avoid crushing the papers. Serve 
in the papers. 

VEAL CUTLETS, NO. 3 

Cut a slice from the leg or fillet of veal, freed of bone, skin, and 
fat, into pieces for serving; flatten them with a wet bat, and 
dredge with salt, pepper, and flour; saut6 to a golden brown in 
bacon or salt-pork fat, then remove from the pan and add two 
tablespoonfuls of flour; stir and cook until brown, then add a cup 
and a half of broth or water; let boil, then add the cutlets, cover 
and let simmer three quarters of an hour, or imtil the cutlets are 
tender. If preferred, egg-and-bread-crumb the cutlets instead of 
dredging them with flour. 

VEAL POT PIE 

Wipe a piece of veal from the shoulder and cut into pieces for 
serving; add a half -inch strip of salt pork or bacon for each piece 
of veal, cover with cold water, put over the fire and bring quickly 
to the boiling point, then, after boiling five minutes, skim and let 
simmer until the meat is tender. Wten nearly tender, add salt 
and pepper to season, and a biscuit mixture cut into rounds. Cook 
ten minutes without lifting the cover. Serve the meat in the centre 
of the platter, the dumplings at the ends and the sauce, thickened, 
if needed, with flour and water, over the whole. Parboiled pota- 
toes with other vegetables may be cooked in the stew. In this 
case the dumplinjgs should not be £idded until the potatoes are half 
cooked. If tiiere be a lack of broth, a cup of tomato puree may 
be added. The dumplings may be steamed fifteen minutes over a 
saucepan of boiling water. This is usually preferable, to avoid 
removing them from the fire until the instant of serving. The 
beaten yolks of two eggs, diluted with half a cup of cream and 
added to the sauce, give a richer dish. 



£36 PRACTICAL COOKING AND SERVING 

DUMPLINGS 

1 pint of flour. i tcaspoonf ul of soda or 

i teaspoonful of salt. 3 teaspoonfuls of baking-powder. 

2 teaspoonfuls of cream of tartar. About i cup of sweet milk. 

The dough should be as soft as can be handled; pat out half an 
inch thick and cut into small rounds. 



VEAL LOAF 

3§ pounds of raw veal. 3 eggs, well beaten. 

I pound of fat salt pork. 3 tablespoonfuls of cream, milk, white 

i pound of chicken or lean ham. or tomato sauce. 

6 soda crackers. i teaspoonful of sweet herbs or 

6 mushrooms. f teaspoonful of mace. 

I tablespoonful of salt. t teaspoonful of pepper. 

Pass the veal (that from the leg is best) and the pork through 
the meat-chopper together with the chicken, or ham, the mush- 
rooms and the crackers. The ham should have been cooked, and 
the mushrooms saut6d in butter. Add the other ingredients, mix 
thoroughly and shape into a compact loaf. Slide on to a tin 
baking-sheet, cover with scored slices of salt pork and bake on a 
rack in the dripping pan about two hours, basting every ten min- 
utes. Serve hot, with a sauce made in the pan after the loaf has 
been removed; or, preferably, serve cold, sliced thin, with a vege- 
table salad. 

CHICKEN LOAF 

Prepare as veal loaf, substituting the flesh from two uncooked 
fowl, weighing about three and one third pounds each, one pound 
of veal and a cup of blanched almonds for the chicken or bam and 
the veal given in the recipe. 

PRESSED CHICKEN OR VEAL 

^ Cover a young fowl, cut in joints, with boiling water, and let 
simmer until tender together with a few slices of carrot, half an 
onion, and a stalk of celery. Remove the skin and bones, and 
return them with broth to the fire, and let simmer until reduced 
to about one cup; strain and set aside. When the flesh is nearly 



CALF'S LIVER LOAF I37 

old, cut into tiny cubes, or chop fine; remove the fat from the 
iroUi, reheat, and stir the chicken into it, adding salt and pepper 
nd other seasoning, if desired. Decorate a mould with "hard- 
loiled" eggs cut in slices; in this pack the hot chicken, cover with 
buttered paper bearing a weight, and let stand untO cold and set. 
Ise a knuckle of veal in the same manner as the chicken. Serve, 
[iced thin, with salad. Good with potato or tomato salad. 



BROILED CALF'S LIVER AND BACON 

Cook the bacon as on page 144. Cut the liver in slices half an 
ach thick, cover with boiling water and let stand five minutes; 
npe dry, then dip in the bacon fat, sprinkle lightly with pepper 
nd broil five minutes, turning every ten seconds. Serve with 
he bacon. 

FRIED CALF'S LIVER (STEAMER PRISCILLA) 

Cut the liver in slices half an inch thick, cover with boiling water, 
nd let stand five minutes; wipe dry, rub over with the cut side of 
n onion, season with pepper and sdt, roll in flour or bread crumbs, 
hen in eggs and bread crumbs. Fry in deep fat about five minutes, 
n the meantime put ten or twelve slices of bacon in a double- 
iroiler over a dripping pan into the oven and cook imtil crisp, 
lerve the liver and bacon with a garnish of parsley and lemons, 
ut in quarters. 

CALF'S LIVER LOAF 

Remove the skin from a calf's liver, and cut the flesh into slices; 
ook in boiling salted water five minutes, then drain and chop fine. 
Ad one teaspoonful of onion juice, half a cup of fine bread crumbs 
lat have been soaked in cold water and then wrung dry in a cloth, 
scant teaspoonful of salt, half a teaspoonful of poultry seasoning, 
iiro eggs, well beaten, and the. juice of half a lemon, or one table- 
)oonful of vinegar; mix thoroughly. Line a brick-shaped baking 
an with thin slices of bacon, or salt pork, press the mixture tightly 
ito the pan, cover with pork and steam, or bake in the oven, two 
ours or more. Turn from the mould, remove the bacon, and 
!rve with tomato sauce. If it is to be served cold, leave In the 
an until ready to slice. 



isS PRACTICAL COOKING AND SERVING 

SWEETBREADS 

The price of sweetbreads varies with the season, in winter bemg 
about double what it is in the spring. In the country they are 
often thrown away, and when sold bring not more than twenty-five 
cents a pair. In the city the price varies from seventy-five cents 
to one dollar and a half a pair. Although we speak of sweet- 
breads as a pair, there is in reality but one sweetbread, consisting 
of two parts connected by a short membrane. The pancreas is 
sometimes sold for the sweetbread, but the sweetbread proper is 
found higher up in the throat and breast, and is not connected with 
the pancreas. Only a vestige of the sweetbread remains after the 
calf begins to eat grass, while the pancreas is a permanent gland of 
the aniinal. 

As they spoil very quickly, sweetbreads should be attended to as 
soon as received from the market. After being soaked in cold 
water an hour or more, the water being renewed several times, let 
simmer for about forty minutes in salted, addulated water, thea 
remove to cold water to harden. Remove all the tubes, outside 
skin, and fibres, but do not break the sweetbreads theni^ves. 
When cooled a little tie each piece in a bit of cheesecloth, drawing 
the cloth quite tightly, in some cases, to make the pieces of a nearly 
imiform surface and oval form, then cool under a weight. 

SWEETBREADS LARDED AND BAKED (HOTEL TOURAINE) 

3 pairs of sweetbreads. i can of peas or pint of cooked fresh 
Truffles. peas. 

3 tablespoonfuls of butter. 3 tablespoonfuls of butter or cream. 

2 slices of onion. 3 large mushroom caps. 

6 slices of carrot. 2 tablespoonfuls of butt«. 

i cup of glaze (dark). i tablespoonful of flour 
I oup of cream. 

Lard the blanched sweetbreads with truffles, seut6 in the butter 
with the onion and carrot, drain ofE the butter, add the glaze and 
cook in a moderate oven, basting often, until tJie sweetbreads are 
well glazed; the cooking is simply to reheat and glaze them. Pass 
the peas through a sieve, season with salt and pepper and reheat 
with the butter, or cream. If the peas have been canned, add a 
teaspoonful of sugar. When the pea-pulp is reheated and quite 
dry, shape into nests, using a pastry-bag and tube. Dispose the 



CALF'S HEAD, BRAINS , AND TONGUE 139 

sweetbreads in the nests and pour about them the mushrooms, cut 
in julienne style, saut6d in the butter, dredged with the flour, and 
then simmered in the cup of cream and the liquid left in the pan 
in which the sweetbreads were glazed. 

LARDED SWEETBREADS BAKED 

Lard two pairs of blanched sweetbreads, alternately, with small 
salt pork lardoons, and lardoons cut from the yellow rind of a 
lemon. Set in a dish into the oven with a cup of brown stock, to 
which bits of salt pork and vegetables have been added and let 
cook twenty minutes, basting frequently. Serve with a brown 
mushroom sauce, or with the stock in the pan, thickened with roux 
and strained. 

FRIED SWEETBREADS 

Cut the parboiled and cooled sweetbreads in slices of imiform 
thickness, egg-and-bread-crumb and fry in deep fat. Dress on a 
hot folded serviette. Serve with Bernaise, or Tartare sauce, or 
omit the sauce and serve with green peas. They may be sauted i» 
butter instead of frying in deep fat. 

SWEETBREADS IN BROWN, CREAM, BECHAMEL OR 
POULETTE SAUCES 

Parboiled and cooled sweetbreads cut into cubes, reheated in 
any one of the sauces mentioned above, mixed with cooked chicken, 
mushrooms, veal or oysters, also cut in cubes are served in patties, 
timbale cases, vol-au-vents, etc. They are also chopped coarsely 
and used in croquettes either alone, or in combination with other 
material. 

CALF'S HEAD, BRAINS, AND TONGUE 

These, especially the brains, are considered great delicacies. 
The brains may be bought apart for about twenty cents a set; but 
tiie whole head, including the brains and tongue, is sold for the 
same price. In buying the head have it dressed (split apart and 
imedible portions removed) before it is sent home, then soak and 
scrub in cold water. Put over the fire to cook in cold water; 
when the water boils, pour it off and cover again with cold water, 
thus blanching it. When the head becomes cold, rub over with 



HO PRACTICAL COOKING AND SERVING 

the cut side of a lemon, and cover with boiling water; add twooi 
three tablespoonfuls of white wine, vinegar, or lemonjuice, a bay 
leaf, an onion, pierced with half a dozen cloves, a few slices of carrot 
and sprigs of parsley, cover and let simmer until tender. Take out 
the bones and use the meat in "made" dishes and the broth for a 
soup. The meat may be packed in a mould and the broth seasoned 
with salt strained over it. When cold, the jellied head may be 
cut in slices. The tongue cooked with the head may he served 
without other preparation than skinning. Soak the brains in cold 
water several hours, changing the water several times. Tie in a 
cheesecloth and let simmer twenty minutes in highly seasoned 
stock. When cold use as sweetbreads. 

PORK 

AVERAGE COMPOSITION OF PORK AS PURCHASED (aTWATEk) 

Fuel Val. 

Refuse Water Prot«n Fat Ash per lb. 

Per Cent. Per Cent. Per Cent. Per Cent. Per Cent. Cabrles 

Loin IS.8 43.8 14. 1 25.6 .7 1.340 

Ham 14.4 34.9 13.3 33.4 .4 1.655 

Salt Clear Fat 7.3 1.8 87.2 3.7 3.715 

Bacon, Smoked . .8 16.8 9.2 61.8 4.2 2.780 

In these latter days pork has come to be looked upon with dis- 
trust, and is rarely, save in the form of ham or bacon, seen upon 
the best tables. There may be good reason for this; but, after all, 
if we know that the animal from which the roast is taken has been 
housed in a clean place and fed upon wholesome food, who will 
not be tempted, occasionally, to taste a savory and fragrant roast 
of well-crisped pork? Who can doubt that the "burnt pig," that 
had been fed upon mast by Loti, the swineherd, was as delectable 
as it was set forth in the Chinese manuscript transcribed for our 
edification by Charles Lamb? Why should not yoimg pigs, allowed 
to roam at will in the woods and fatten upon sweet acorns, be as 
wholesome as turkeys that are fed upon chestnuts, or com; for does 
not the pith of the whole matter depend upon the feeding? 

When we consider the high percentage of fat in pork and, con- 
sequently, its high fuel value, we understand why it was that, in 
the traditional days of old, when houses were ill-heated and the rigor 
of a long, cold winter had to be contended against by rich and poor 
alike, there was more need of the historic Christmas didi, the boar's 
head of merrie England, than is apparently the case to-day. 




RIB ROAST OF BEEF. TWO RIBS FROM FORE QUARTER, 
(See page 114.) 




VEAL LOAF READY FOR BAKING (See page 136J 




CANNELON OF BEEF WITH MACARONI A LA ITALIENNE. 
(See page 117.) 




SIRLOIN STEAK. TENDERLOIN IN FRONT 
(Sec papc ilg.) 




RIB CHOP TRIMMED. FRENCH CHOP RIB CHOP 

UNTRIMMED. LOIN CHOP. (See pages 124 and 128.) 




CROWN ROAST OP LAMB. 

Rib bones covered with paper frills. Centre filled with glazed 

chestnuts ^See page 126.) 



TO CURE HAMS AND BACON 141 

The curing of salt pork, bacon, and hams by salting and, in case 
of the two latter, by smoking, acts much as does pasteurization in 
milk to render them more wholesome. The skin of well-fed pork 
is fine rather than coarse, is white and clear. The flank and the 
thick layer of fat over the flesh of the loin and ribs is cured for 
salt pork and, when of good quality, is of a delicate pinkish opal 
tint. If the pigs be young, the sides or flanks are transformed by 
salting and smoking into bacon. The upper part of the hind legs 
(the hams), and the upper part of the fore legs (shoulders) are salted 
and smoked. The flesh of the loin (chine) and ribs (spare ribs), 
denuded of fat, is cut into roasts, or chops. Fresh pork is most 
unwholesome unless it be thoroughly cooked. 

Contrary to the general rule for roasting meat, a roast of pork 
should not be put into a quick oven, lest the outside be seared over 
and the heat be prevented from penetrating the inmost centre. 
Twenty or twenty-five minutes to the pound in a slow oven is 
about the length of time required in cooking. 

Ham and bacon, if properly cured, need little cooking when 
broiled or fried. A high temperature, or long-continued cooking 
— unless very much prolonged — toughens the fibres and impairs 
digestibility. The thin-sliced bacon of the epicure is served just 
as soon as heat renders it transparent. 

Apple sauce, sweetened sparingly, is, on account of the fat 
splitting property of acids, a fitting accompaniment to all dishes 
of pork, ham, and bacon. 

TO CURE HAMS AND BACON (FOR FIFTY POUNDS) 

6 pounds of salt. i ounce of bicarbonate of soda. 

2§ pounds of sugar or i ounce of saltpetre. 

if quarts of molasses. 2 gallons or more of water. 

Cover the bottom of an oak barrel, or firkin, with a layer of salt; 
mix the rest of the salt and the sugar, or molasses, and with this 
rub thoroughly each ham or strip of bacon and put them skin side 
down in the barrel. Put any unused salt and sugar in the water, 
add the soda and saltpetre, dissolved in a little water, and pour this 
over the meat; there should be enough to cover well the meat; place 
a board bearing a weight on top of the meat; let remain from four 
to eight weeks, according to the size of the pieces; drain for two 
days, then smoke in a place from which the air is excluded, four 
weeks with corncobs, green hickory, or maplewood. Hang the 



142 PRACTICAI/ COOKING AND SERVING 

hams, hock downward, as the skin will retain the Juices of the 
meat. 

CROWN OF PORK WITH SMALL ONIONS 

Cut pieces containing six ribs from each side of a rack of pork, 
having the two pieces of the same length and height; remove the 
backbone and make an incision between the ribs; trim each rib 
above the eye as for French lamb chops; turn the rib bones outside 
and the eyes of the chops inside and sew the two pieces together. 
Mix a cup of sausage meat with a cup of stale bread crumbs, softened 
in cold water and wrung dry; add an egg, beaten slightly, and 
additional seasoning, if needed. Put the crown in the baking pan, 
and the sausage mixture in the open space inside the crown, cover 
the bones with buttered paper, dredge with salt, pepper, and flour, 
and bake in a slow oven between two and three hours, basting 
every ten minutes with the dripping, to which a little hot water is 
added. Saute to a delicate brown enough small peeled onions to 
fill the crown ; add stock and let cook until tender, glazing the onions 
with the stock as it cooks away. Remove the crown carefully to 
a serving-dish, so as to avoid breaking the sausage filling^ place 
the onions in the centre above the filling and garnish with a few 
sprigs of parsley. Serve with this apple sauce and tomatoes in 
some form. 

PORK CHOPS 

Have the chops cut about half an inch thick; trim off superfluous 
fat, saute slowly vmtil well browned and thoroughly cooked, or set 
on the rack in the baking pan into the oven and let cook until well 
browned. The oven needs to be hotter, on account of the small 
size, than for a large roast. It will take about twenty-five minutes 
to cook the chops in either way. Serve with apple sauce. 

PORK TENDERLOIN, GERMAN STYLE 

Saute the tenderloin, cut in suitable pieces for serving, in melted 
butter until sUghtly browned on both sides, then cover and let 
simmer fifteen minutes, turning once. Add sweet cream to cover 
the meat in part and cook fifteen minutes longer, or until the pieces 
are easily pierced with a fork. Remove to a serving dish, add 
enough flour, stirred with water, or broth, to thicken the liquid, 
Set simmer ten mkiutes, then add a little lemon juice and pour over 
the meat. Or, omit the lemon from the sauce and serve in a bowl; 



SAUSAGE BAKED WITH BEANS 145 

ice a slice of lemon on each piece of pork. Season the meat with 
t after the cream is scalded. 

PORK CROQUETTES, GERMAN STYLE 

I small onion. Ground pepper and nutmeg. 

I pound of tender uncooked pork. 2 ounces of grated bread. 

12 boned anchovies. 3 eggs. 

I tablespoonful of chopped capers. 3 tablespoonfuls of thick sour cream. 

Cook the onion until tender in butter, then chop with the pork 
til fine; freshen the anchovies, remove the bones and chop fine; 
d to the pork with the capers and other ingredients, and mix 
oroughly. With the hands form into small cutlet shapes rather 
s than half an inch thick; saut6 ia hot butter, first on one side 
d then on the other, to a golden brown. Make a hole in the small 
ds of the cutlets and insert a sprig of paisley* Serve with fine 
getables, asparagus, peas, or string beans buttered. 

SAUSAGE WITH APPLE SAUCE 

Cover the sausage, pricked in every part with a fork, with boiling 
iter, let simmer fifteen minutes, then drain and brown in the oven 
on the top of the stove. Make a syrup of a cup, each, of sugar 
d water and in this cook very carefidly four or five tart apples, 
red, pared and sliced in rings. Serve these, drained from the 
nip, around the sausage arranged in the centre of the dish. 

SAUSAGE BAKED WITH BEANS 

Let one quart of pea beans soak over night in soft water; washi 
ain and cook until vexy tender, but not broken, in boiling water, 
angiog the water at least twice. Put the beans into a baking 
sh with links of sausage, here and there, using in aJl abo'ut a pound 
sausage. Dissolve two teaspoonf uls of salt in a quart of boiling 
iter and pour over the beans, adding more, if needed, to cover, 
ike five or six hours. Serve hot with tomato catsup. Press the 
eft over" closely into an oval-shaped dish, taking no care to re- 
in the shape of the beans. If needed, a plate bearing a weight 
ay be placed on the top. When cold, turn from the dish and 
It into slices. Garnish with celery leaves ot paxsky. Serve 
ith a beet or tomaftD salad. 



144 PRACTICAL COOKING AND SERVING 

BOSTON BAKED BEANS WITH PORK 

I pint of pea beans. i teaspoonful of mustard. 

1 teaspoonful of soda. i teaspoonful of salt. 

i to i pound of salt pork. 2 tablespoonfuls of molasses or sugar. 

Soak the beans in cold water (soft water preferred) over night. 
In the morning wash and rinse thoroughly, then parboil until they 
are soft enough to pierce with a pin and no longer. Change the 
water while parboilmg, always using boiling water for cooking and 
rinsing. During the last boiling add soda. Rinse thoroughly in , 
hot water. Put one half of the beans into the bean pot. Pour 
scalding hot water over the salt pork and score the rind in half- 
inch strips. Put into the bean pot above the beans and pour in 
remainder of the beans. Mix the mustard, salt, and molasses, or, 
sugar, with hot water and pour over the beans; add boiling water 
to cover. Bake about eight hours in a moderate oven. Keep 
the beans covered with water and, also, the cover on the pot imtil 
the last hour. The pork may be drawn to the surface and browned 
during the last hour. 

SALT PORK, COUNTRY STYLE 

Select clear, fat pork and cut in slices about one third inch 
in thickness; cover these with boiling water; then dip the slices, ont 
at a time, in flour, first on one side and then on the other, and put 
at once into a hot frying-pan; let cook slowly until well browned, 
then turn and brown on the other side and drain on soft paper. 
When well cooked but little remains save a dry, crispy shell. Drain 
oflE part of the fat and into the rest put some apples, cored and 
sliced without paring; stir with the fat, then cover and let cook 
slowly until tender, turning carefully now and then. Serve around 
the pork, or serve the pork upon the apple 

BACON AS A BREAKFAST RELISH 

Cut the bacon in slices as thin as possible; this can be easily done 
if the rind be first removed; or slice down to the rind, then nm the 
knife under the slice close to the rind. Lay the sHces in a hot 
frying-pan; as soon as they begin to look clear, tiun, and in a few 
seconds remove to a soft paper to drain. Or, in a double-broiler 
over a dripping pan set into a hot oven and let cook vmtil the slices 
look clear. 



HAM BAKED WITH CIDER 145 

* BOILED HAM 

Let the ham soak several hours, or over night, after scraping 
and scrubbing thoroughly with a brush. To cook, cover with 
cold water, bring slowly to the boiling point, let boil a few moments, 
then skim and let simmer five hours or more. When tender set 
aside to partially cool in the liquid, then remove, draw oflE the skin, 
brush over with beaten yolk of egg diluted with milk, sprinkle with 
sugar and cracker crumbs mixed together, and set in the oven to 
brown. Cover the bone with a paper frill. Garnish the dish with 
parsley. Also serve cold, thinly sliced. Nasturtium leaves and 
blossoms make a most appropriate garnish for a platter of thin- 
sliced, cold-boiled ham. 

HAM BAKED WITH CIDER 

Soak and scrub the ham; when ready to cook make a dough or 
thick paste of flour and water and spread over the ham, encasing 
it completely; set on the rack in a baking pan into a hot oven to 
cook the paste, then lower the temperature and let cook about 
five hours. About an hour before cooking is done, make a hole in 
the paste and pour in a cup of hot cider; repeat this twice if needed, 
or use for liquid what drips into the pan. When tender, remove 
crust and skin from three fourths of the ham, leaving one fourth 
of the skin about the shank bone. 

Brush the skinned portion with beaten yolk of egg and sprinkle 
with cracker crumbs mixed with sugar and return to the oven to 
brown. Serve hot or cold. To serve cold, dip olives, cut in halves 
with stone removed, into a little dissolved gelatine and press them 
about the ham close to the skin; conceal the bone with a paper frill 
and surround with a wreath of lettuce cut in narrow ribbons. 
Capers, chilies, and lard pipings also are used to decorate a cold- 
boUed ham, served whole. 

HAM COOKED IN A CASSEROLE 

Scrub and soak the ham. Put in a large earthen casserole 
(these can be bought for a dollar) with a kitchen bouquet, a cup 
of soup vegetables, a quart of water, and a pint of cider; cover 
closely, pasting a strip of cotton cloth aroimd the joint where the 
dish and cover meet; let cook in the oven, or on top of the range, 
without boiling, about six hours. Finish as a boiled or baked 



146 PRACTICAL COOKING AND SERVING 

ham. Strain the liquid and use in making a sauce to serve nvlth the 
ham when hot. 

BROILED HAM 

Cut the ham very thin. If mild cured, broil over bright coals 
three or four minutes; if very salt, let stand in boiling water five 
or ten minutes, then dry and broil. For fried ham proceed in the 
same way, using the hot frying-pan in place of the broiler. 

HAM CROUTONS 

Dip long kite-shaped pieces of bread in melted butter; brown in 
the oven, then let cool. Arrange these in a circle on a serving dish, 
the narrow ends meeting in the centre. Pound a cup of lean, cooked 
ham, chopped fine, half a cup of butter, and four tablespoonfuls of 
Bechamel sauce to a paste; pass through a pur^e sieve, then pipe — 
using a bag with star tube attached — upon the pieces of bread. 
Garnish the piping with chopped white of egg. Place stoned olives 
or pimolas and sprig of parsley between the croutons. Use hard- 
boiled white of egg or, better still, two or three uncooked whites 
and a tablespoonful of milk or cream to each white, beaten to- 
gether; turn into a buttered dish and poach gently until firm in 
water "just off the boil." Serve as a luncheon dish, or as a hors 
d'osuvre. 

JELLIED PICKLED PIQS' FEET. (MRS. T. B. WHEELOCK, 

ST. PAUL) 

6 cleaned pigs' feet. Piece of red pepperpod. 

A bay leaf. Salt. 

6 cloves. A sprig of parsley. 

I large onion sliced. White wine vinegar. 

Cook the feet in boiling water until nearly tender, then add the 
bay leaf, onion, cloves, pepperpod, parsley, and salt, and finish 
cooking. Take out the feet, skim off the fat and strain the liquid. 
Remove the large bones from the feet and place the latter in an 
earthen bowl; add vinegar to the liquid (half liquid and half broth, 
if the vinegar be not too strong) and pour over enough to cover the 
feet. If there be much more broth than is required, reduce by slow 
cooking before the vinegar is added, to insure a jellied conditioB 
when cold. 



STUFFED PORK TENDERLOINS 147 

STUFFED PORK TENDERLOINS, WITH BANANAS 

Have two pork tenderloins of good size. These sell for twenty- 
five cents each in Eastern markets, but are much less in most 
other markets. Make a bread dressing of one cup of soft crumbs, 
two or three sage leaves, a grating of onion, one fourth a teaspoon- 
ful, each, of salt and pepper and one fourth a cup of melted butter. 
Spread this on one of the tenderloins, and press the other above it; 
tie in three places with tape or narrow strips of cloth, set on several 
skewers in a casserole, pour over some hot dripping and let cook 
about two hours in a very moderate oven, basting frequently with 
hot fat. When about ready to serve, peel some bananas, scrape 
off coarse threads, cut in halves, crosswise, and each half, length- 
wise. Dip the quarters in flour and saute in hot fat. Set tihe meat 
on a serving dish, surround with the bananas and serve at once. 



CHAPTER V 
Poultry and Qame 

"Stuff it and roast it and baste it with care; 

Daintily then the gravy prepare, 
While 'round you the savory odors shall tell, 

Whate'er is worth doing is worth doing well."— L. F. G. 

AVERAGE COMPOSITION OF POULTRY AND GAME AS 
PURCHASED (aTWATEr) 

Fuel Val. 
Refuse Water Protein Fat Ash P^'lb- 

Percent. Per Cent. Per Cent. Per Cent. Per Cent. Calories. 

Chicken 34.8 48.5 14.8 i.i .8 .500 

Fowl 30.0 45. 6 13.4 10.2 .8 .680 

Turkey 22.7 42.4 17.7 18.4 .8 1.070 

Goose 22.2 33.1 10.3 33.8 .6 1.620 

The term poultry includes all domestic birds used as food. 
Game is a term applied to wUd animals taken in hunting, trapping, 
fowling, and fishing. Pigeon and squab are included under game. 
In some localities game is lower in price than beef or mutton. 
Game is rich in phosphates and, on account of the natural manner 
in which wild creatures feed and live and, also, from absence of fat, 
it is more readily digested than most nitrogenous foods. When 
htmg a proper length of time, the flesh of most game is tender. 
(Wild geese and ducks excepted.) The custom of allowing game 
to hang to induce "high" flavor is a menace to the health of the 
consumer and should be discouraged: particularly in case of game 
of dark color, which is usually served quite rare. The best cuts of 
venison correspond to the best cuts of beef or mutton and are 
cooked in the same manner. Spring chickens hatched in in- 
cubators may be had for broiling at almost any season of the year, 
but from January to July the price is too high to admit of purchase 
save on rare occasions. From July to September the price is such 
that they may be considered among the possibilities for a Sunday 
dinner, or a " little dinner " when guests are in attendance. Yoimg 

148 




LARDED SWEETBREAD BAKED. TOURAINE STYLE 
(See page J38.) 



HV 


■T""^^ 


^■i^ 


IPCS^MPHk'*^ mMH 


mr Jt^uvS^ 7^-^" f''^^'^^^ 


Hpp 


^0 


'i 7 Jt^ yy^l --^-^^^^^1 


K^^^ 


^^ JF^j; 


i^^^^^g^l 


l^l^l 


^^^B^^B^^HH 



SADDLE OF MUTTON, ROASTED. 
Garnish; Glazed turnip cups filled with peas. (See page 126.) 




BBOILED MUTTON CHOPS AROUND A MOUND OP SPINACH. 
(Seepages 128 and 129.} 



HOW TO CLEAN AND DRAW FOWL 14, 

turkeys in August and September are delicacies purchasable by 
the few. All fowl are in their prime from November to March. 
When admissible all birds should be dry-picked and "drawn" as 
soon as killed. This last precaution insures a wholesome and well- 
flavored viand. Pin-feathers indicate a young fowl; hairs an older 
one. If the end of the breastbone be cartilaginous, bending easily, 
the fowl is not more than a year old; after that age the cartilage 
hardens into bone. The legs and feet of a young fowl are soft and 
smooth to the touch; upon the legs of older fowl the scales are 
sharp and pronounced, and the spurs are strong and large. 

HOW TO CLEAN AND DRAW FOWL 

Many poulterers singe and draw fowl; they also remove the ten- 
dons from the drumsticks, whereby that joint is very much im- 
proved. The dealer has all the conveniences for this work, and, 
if he attend to these matters, the time and strength of the house- 
keeper are saved. At the same time he will need looking after; the 
lungs and bean-shaped kidneys lie in small cavities, and only the 
careful, painstaking marketman takes trouble to remove them. 

If this work be done at home, the first thing, the fowl having 
been picked, is to remove pin-feathers and all feather stumps re- 
maining in the skin; a strawberry huller is the best thing yet devised 
for this purpose. Singeing is next in order. One or two table- 
spoonfuls of alcohol ignited on a tin dish affords the best means 
for doing this; lighted paper may also be used. Take the bird by 
the head and feet and turn it constantly, that the flame may touch 
every part. To singe small birds run four or five at a time a little 
distance apart on a long skewer, then taking the skewer by the 
ends pass them over the flame, turning the skewer meanwhile. 

Cut off the head — the heads of canvasback and other choice 
varieties of wild duck and those of small birds are often left on the 
body — and after loosening the crop by passing the finger around 
the same, draw out the gullet with crop attached and the windpipe ; 
if the crop be not very full — as it should not be — this may be 
done without making a slit in the skin of the neck. When necessary 
to cut the skin it should be done at the back. Cut off the neck bone 
even with the top of the breast, but do not cut off the skin. When 
the fowl is trussed, the skin may be brought down under the tips 
of the wings and fastened either with a skewer or the thread that 
is used in trussing. 

Cut carefully just through the skin of the leg at the joint, or 



ISO PRACTICAL COOKING AND SERVmG , 

make a cut lengthwise through the skin below the joint; at either 
place the tendons running up into the drumstick will be exposed 
and with a trussing needle or skewer they may be drawn out one 
after another. At the market the poulterer, alter slitting the skin 
to lay the tendons "bare, hangs the fowl, first by the tendons in one 
leg and then by those in the other, upon a meat hook, and with a 
single pull the tendons are drawn. The Little Giant tendon puller 
has been devised lately; by its use all the tendons in one leg of a 
fowl may be drawn at once. When one sees how easily these are 
removed, it seems strange that this really marked improvement 
in the dressing of turkeys is so universally omitted. Cut a small 
opening just through the skin under the rump, near the vent, 
insert at first one and afterward two fingers and pass them around 
close to the body, between the body and internal organs, at first 
close to the breast bone, then reach in beyond the liver and heart 
and loosen on either side down close to the back. After all the 
internal organs are loosened, take hold of the gizzard, which lies 
at the base of the breast bone, and draw this out gently and all 
that has been loosened will follow. In drawing a fowl avoid break- 
ing the gall-bladder attached to the liver, the liquid from which 
will cause a bitter taste in whatever it comes in contact with. The 
lungs, lying in cavities under the breast, and the kidneys in cavities 
in the backbone, need to be taken out separately. 

Wipe out, or rinse if needed, and dry thoroughly. All birds to 
be served whole are cleaned and d^awn after this manner. 

DRESSING FOWL FOR BROILING 

When birds are to be broiled, they are cleaned and the tendons 
are drawn in the same manner, but they are drawn in a different 
way. Lay the bird upon the meat-board breast down, and with a 
sharp, strong knife cut down through the flesh on each side of the 
backbone, from the neck to the nmip, thus cutting out the rump, 
the backbone, and the neck; lift up the backbone slightly and with 
the fingers loosen the internal organs from the back, first on one 
side and then on the other, then loosen them from the breast; after 
this has been done, the neck, backbone, and rump, with all the 
internal organs attached, may be separated in one malss from the 
rest of the bird; now carefully scrape and push the flesh from the 
breast bone and remove that; remove the rib bones; cut off the 
kgs at the second joint; and cut through the sinews at other 
jointc. 



THE GIBLETS 151 



DRESSING A FOWL FOR A FRICASSEE 

Singe, remove pin-feathers and tendons, then separate the fowl 
into pieces at the joints. Beginning with the legs, cut through the 
loose skin between the legs and the body, bend the leg-and cut off 
at the joint; by moving the legs a little the joint between the 
"second joint" and drumstick can be ascertained; cut through the 
flesh at this place, then sever the ligaments. Cut through the 
skin and flesh on the under side where the wing joins the body, and 
disjoint the wing. Make an incision between the ends of the 
breast bone and the tail, near the latter; carefully cut through the 
skin from the incision to the backbone on each side. Then remove 
all internal organs. Cut through the ribs, and the articulation at 
the top of the collar bone, thus separating the breast and back; 
divide the back by cutting through the middle crosswise. Often 
the wishbone and flesh attached to it are cut off and the rest of the 
breast chopped into two parts at the bone; these, however, are not 
nattiral divisions, but convenient for serving. Wipe the pieceo with 
a damp doth and wash the inside of those that need it; do not soak 
in water. A fowl for broiling or for fricassee needs to be fresher 
than for roasting. If a fowl have an odor about it that indicates 
long keeping, wash on the inside with water in which a little soda 
has been dissolved and let stand uxitil time of cooking with bits of 
charcoal inside. Chickens and turkeys one year old are best for 
roasting. When older steam for an hour or more, then finish cook- 
ing and brown in the oven. 



THE GIBLETS 

The gizzard, heart, and liver are known as the giblets. To qImjq, 
^Mt the gall-baig (snlaU green appendage) from the liVer to whicb it 
as attached; do not brrak this. Press the blood from the valves 
of the heart, remove the fat from the gizzard, cut through the thick 
part just to the inner lining and peel fiiis from the inside, or second 
stomach; cut away the white gristle, retaining the thick fleshy 
portion. Wash all thoroughly and use with the neck and tips of 
the wings in soup, in giblet sauce, in stuffing, or forcemeat. The 
liver is considered a delicacy; the liver of game birds, roasted or 
broiled, is mashed, highly seasoned and spread upon the toast 
upon which the bird is served. 



IS2 PRACTICAL COOKING AND SERVING 

BONINQ POULTRY AND BIRDS 

Bones are a much more valuable acquisition to the soup kettle, 
if they be added imcooked. Poultry and birds, boned and filled 
with forcemeat, may be served either hot or cold, and have the 
advantage of being easily carved. They may be boned in either 
of two ways, according to the shape they are to assume; one is 
used when the skin and flesh is to be roUed around stuffing; the 
other when the natural shape is to be restored by stuffing. In 
either case it is desirable to keep the skin as whole as possible. 

BONING TO PRESERVE SHAPE 

In this process the skin with the flesh attached is to be separated 
intact from the bones which support it; the fingers and the back of 
a sharp, pointed knife are most serviceable in pushing and scraping 
the flesh from the bones, and the sharp edge of the knife when cut- 
ting is desirable. Singe, remove the pin-feathers, head, tendons, and 
lastly, the feet, wipe carefully, but do not draw the bird, as a firm 
foimdation upon which to work is desirable. 

Loosen the skin around the end of the leg bone, and cut through 
the skin on the back from the neck to about the middle of the bad:. 
Beginning on one side, scrape the flesh with the skin from the back- 
bone to the free end of the shoulder-blade, push the flesh from this 
and then follow the bone to the articulation of the wing, then down 
to the middle joint of the wing, free this and disjoint the bone at 
the tip- joint; free the flesh from the other shoulder-blade and wing 
in the same way, then push the flesh from each collar-bone down 
to the breastbone, separating the crop from the flesh. The skin 
lies very close over the edge of the ridge of the breastbone, and 
great care must be exercised to keep it whole; use the fingers rather 
than the knife. Now separate the flesh from the ribs, taking care 
not to penetrate the lining into the inside; push the flesh from the 
second joint, then from the leg, pulling the flesh down over the ends 
of the legs, where the skin was looseneid at first, just as one often 
turns a glove wrong side out, when it does not come off easily; free 
the bones on the other side in the same way, then push the skin 
from the backbone until the rump is reached; cut through the bone, 
leaving a part of it in the rump. Now, when the skin on the under 
part is separated from the lining membrane, the edible portion of 
the bird (saving the giblets) is in one piece and the bony structure 
with the internal organs in another. 



TRUSSING POULTRY AND BIRDS 153 

BONINQ FOR A GALANTINE 

Prepare the fowl as before, but cut the skin down the whole 
length of the backbone, then work the flesh from the bones on either 
side just as before, except that the skin upon the wings and legs 
need not be so carefuUy freed from the bones, as it is pulled inside 
to give a rectangular shaped piece. 

STUFFING POULTRY AND SMALL BIRDS 

Poultry and birds that are to be baked or roasted are usually 
stuffed, as it gives them a plumper appearance, though occasionally 
some one suggests that the stiffing absorbs much of the flavor of 
the bird so dressed and recommends the discontinuance of this 
practice. For a change omit the stuffing, but thrust an onion or 
a piece of bread into the cavity to produce moisture. If birds 
are small, so that they do not require long cooking, two or three 
mushroom caps, peeled and sauted in a little hot butter five min- 
utes, may be pushed into the cavity. Thus cooked the mushrooms 
will flavor the birds and be in turn flavored by them. 

When the fowl or small birds are to be stuffed, fill the body with 
materials of such kind as is desired; put in a Little at the slit in the 
skin of the neck to fill out the place left by the removal of the 
crop, and fold the skin down over the back; put in the rest of the 
stuffing at the cut made in drawing the fowl; push the cushion ot 
the tail, after removing the oil-bag, into the same opening and 
sew securely. 

TRUSSING POULTRY AND BIRDS FOR ROASTING 

Steel skewers are quite generally used for trussing, but in most 
cases it is quite as easy and preferable to use the trussing needle, 
which is similar to a long, large, packing needle, except that it has 
a three-sided point. Turn the wings in, so that the three joints 
of each will form triangles on the back of the fowl, the tips being 
pushed over the first joint and meeting on the skin of the neck 
where it was turned over the back. Thread the trussing needle 
with white cotton twine; press it through the middle joint of the 
wing, then over the first joint, taking up a stitch through the skin 
of the neck, folded over, and the back, then out through the second 
joint of the second wing. The needle may now be returned in the 
same way to the first side and tied there, or it may be returned 



1 54 PkACTICAL COOKING AND SERVING 

through the thighs and body at the bend of the thigh joint. Now 
press the legs down and close to the body; push the needle through 
the leg and body to the other side, return through the flesh and 
body, or over the backbone and through the flesh of the second 
leg; draw tightly and tie. When sendmg the needle back to the 
first side, both at the side of the wing and the leg, make a stitch 
nearly three eighths of an inch in length; when the bird is roasted, 
cut this stitch and then draw out the threads by the knots made in 
tying. Truss small birds in the same fashion, the feet and legs, 
nicely cleaned, may be retained and in trussing are left standing iji 
an upright position. 

FILLETING POULTRY AND BIRDS 

A "fillet" is usually spoken of as a thin slice of flesh freed from 
skin and bone. When tfiis term is applied to fowl, though it may 
have this signification, the whole breast of the fowl, removed in 
two pieces and separated lengthwise into four cutlet-shaped pieces, 
is usually meant. Each side of the breast of a fowl may be (hvided 
naturally, as it were, into two fillets. The two outer or upper 
portions are called the large fillets and the two smaller, mignon 
fillets. To fillet a fowl, slit the skin along the ridge of the breast- 
bone up to the neck, turn the skin back and press the knife-blade 
along tlus ridge close to the "wishbone," then lift up the flesh from 
the breast, ribs, and base of the wing, keeping dose to the bone; 
repeat on the other side, and the flesh wiU be removed in two ovai 
pieces thicker at one end. 

Separate each side into large and small fillets; remove the outet 
membrane from the large fillets and the tendon running the entire 
length of each small fflet. The membrane and tendons shrink 
in cooking and injure the shape of the fillets. Before cooking the 
fillets are neatly trimmed and often garnished with slices of truffle, 
or smoked beef tongue. FiUets are also cut from each breast in 
lengthwise slices; four or five can be cut from each side of the 
chicken. When they are to be thus cut, the meat needs to be 
removed with care, to avoid separating the mignoii from ths 
large fillet. 

ROASTING POULTRY AND BIRDS 

When poultry, birds, etc., have been cleaned and trussed ready 
for cooking, cover the breast with thin slices of salt pork, or bacon, 



STUFFING FOR CHICKENS AND TURKEYS 155 

scored lightly; fasten these in place with skewers or strings and set 
on a ra«i in a baking pan, a little larger than the object. The 
rack should be smaller than the pan, to admit of free use of a spoon 
in basting. The "heat indicator" should point to the centre of 
the dial. If necessary to avoid burning, let the pan rest on a grate. 
Turn the object often that it may be seared over uniformly. It will 
take from fifteen to thirty minutes to sear over a turkey, and other 
objects accordingly. When this is accomplished, close damper, 
add a little hot water and dripping to the pan and reduce the tem- 
peratiire as soon as possible to that of ordinary baking. Baste 
every ten nainutes, dredging with flour after each basting. When 
the joints separate easily, the cooking is completed. (It will take 
three hours to roast a ten-pound turkey.) Just before this con- 
dition is reached, remove the pork from the breast, baste with a 
little butter melted in hot water and return to the oven for the 
final browning; baste several times, or until the desired color is 
attained. For best results, use no hot water, in basting, use fat 
only. 

BREAD STUFFING FOR CHICKENS AND TURKEYS 

2 cups of soft bread crumbs. i teaspoonful of pepper. 

i cup of butter, melted. J teaspoonful of powdered sweet 

I teaspoonful of salt. herbs or spiced poultry seasoning. 

I beaten egg. 

Mix the ingredients together thoroughly. The bread should be 
twenty-four hours old and taken from the centre of the loaf. Exact 
quantities of seasoning are given, but this is a matter of individual 
taste. At least twice the amount of ingredients given in the recipe 
will be needed for- a nine or ten-pound turkey. The egg may be 
omitted if the dressing is to be eaten hot; a cold dressing will slice 
better if the egg be used. Cracker cnunbs give a drier stufl5ng. 

OYSTER STUFFING 

To a highly seasoned bread stuffing add an equal bulk of whole 
oysters. Or fill the fowl with oysters dipped in cracker crumbs^ 
then in melted butter and again in crumbs. As long cooking 
detracts from the goodness of oysters, the fowl may be roasted 
without stuffing and served with scalloped oysters. 



iS6 PRACTICAL COOKING AND SERVING 

CHESTNUT STUFFING 

If desired. 
I pint of blanched chestnuts. i pint of fine-chopped chicken or 

i cup of butter. veal, or 

I teaspoonful of salt. i pint of bread crumbs moistened 

Pepper. with I cup of butter. 

Additional seasoning, as onion or lemon juice and chopped parsley. 

Blanch the chestnuts (see page 31), then cook until tender in 
boiling salted water, drain and pass through a ricer. Add the 
seasoning and mix with the veal; moisten with hot cream or stock, 
if a moist dressing is preferred. 

POTATO STUFFING 

Mix together two cups of mashed potato, one cup of soft bread 
crumbs and from one fourth to one half a cup of butter; season to 
taste with salt, pepper, sage, summer savory, or povdtry seasoning 
as wished; add a beaten egg for a dressing to slice smoothly. 

TURKISH STUFFING 

J pound of rice 2 ounces of almonds. 

I dozen French chestnuts. 14 teaspoonful each, of salt, paprika 

i pound of well-washed currants and ground cinnamon 

}^ cup of butter. 

Wash the rice and cook until half done in boiling salted water; 
drain and add the other ingredients, the chestnuts cooked and cut 
in small pieces, the almonds blanched and chopped. Use as any 
stuffing. 

BREAD STUFFING (GREEN) 

6 ounces of soft bread. i teaspoonful of spiced pepper. 

I lemon rind, grated. J cup of melted butter or 

I tablespoonful of green thyme, I pound of beef suet, Aopped. 

chopped. I egg. 

I tablespoonful of marjoram, 2 tablespoonfuls of parsley, 

chopped. chopped. 

Mix as usual, use the suet only in a dressing to be served hot. 
If green herbs are not at hand, use the dried herbs for flavor and 
tint the dressing green with the pulp of cooked spinach pressed 
through a cloth. 



DOMESTIC GOOSE, ROASTED 157 

TURKEY STUFFING (ST. JAMES) 

Chop together the liver of the turkey and one small onion; stir 
these in a saucepan over the fire, but do not brown, about ten min- 
utes, then mix the contents into a pound of sausage meat. When 
thoroughly mixed, add about two dozen of whole chestnuts. The 
chestnuts should be shelled, blanched, and cooked until tender in 
boiling salted water. 

QIBLET SAUCE 

Pour off the fat from the pan in which the fowl was cooked; add 
two tablespoonfuls of flour to the pan and let brown, stirring con- 
stantly; add slowly one cup of the water, now cool, in which the 
giblets were cooked, let boil, then simmer about ten minutes, stir- 
ring occasionally; add more liquid, if the sauce becomes too thick, 
from the browned flour in the pan used in dredging the fowl; season 
as needed and strain over the giblets chopped rather coarse. 

YOUNQ DOMESTIC QOOSE, ROASTED 

The goose should be considerably less than a year old, a "green" 
goose, four months old, is considered the choicest. Such a goose 
is usually roasted without stuffing. If it be bought in the open 
market, it will probably need to be thoroughly scrubbed on the put- 
side; many reliable audiorities advocate the use of soap to facilitate 
the cleansing process. Rinse outside and in. Rub the inside with 
an onion cut in halves, then season with powdered sage, salt, and 
pepper. (The onion and sage may be omitted.) Put the goose, 
after trussing neatly, on the rack in the pan and cook about an 
hour; then pour off the fat from the pan and dredge the goose with 
flour; season, also, with salt and pepper and lay slices of salt pork 
over the breast. When the flour is browned, baste often with hot 
water, dredging with flour after each basting. If the goose be not 
too fat, the dripping in the pan may be used for basting; but usually 
boiling salted water is better. Cook until the joints separate easily, 
from one hour and a half to three hours. Serve with a carefully 
prepared dish of apple sauce. The apples should be stewed very 
quickly to keep them white, and but little sugar should be added. 

A goose about one year old should be steamed, or braised until 
nearly tender and then dredged with flour and browned in the 
oven. 



158 PHACnCAX COOKING AND SERVING 

POTATO AND WALNUT STUFFING FOR ROAST GOOSE 

2 cups of hot mashed potato. i teaspoonful of salt. 

I teaspoonful of onion juice or 4 tablespoonfuls of thick cream. 

grated onion. i tablespoonful of butter. 

J cup of sliced walnut meats. Yolks of two eggs. 

i teaspoonful of paprika. i teaspoonful of sweet herbs if de- 

sired. 

PRUNE STUFFING FOR ROAST GOOSE 

J pound of prunes. i dozen large chestnuts. 

I cup of rice. I cup of melted butter. 

Salt, paprika and ciimamon. 

Soak the prunes over night in cold water; drain, cover with water 
and cook iintil nearly tender. Blanch one cup of rice (see page 2 7) ; 
add the prune juice and water to make about three cups in all, 
also salt as needed, and in this cook the rice until nearly tender and 
the liquid is absorbed; then add the prunes, stoned and cut in 
quarters, the chestnuts, blanched and cut in pieces, the butter with 
salt, paprika and cinnamon as desired. Mix thoroughly and 
handle as any stuffing. This may be used for turkeys. 

DOMESTIC DUCKS, ROASTED 

Domestic geese and ducks are trussed very much as turkeys and 
roasted with or without stuffing; a well-cleaned head of celery may 
be thrust inside to create moisture and give flavor, though this is 
more practised with wild ducks. Roast in a hotter oven, after 
the outside is seared, than for fowl. Cook from half to a whole 
hour, or imtil the joints separate easily. Baste every ten minutes. 
Save upon the breast there is but little flesh on ducks. 

STUFFING FOR ROAST DUCKS 

Chop the liver fine, and saute in one tablespoonful of hot butter, 
with a tablespoonful of chopped onion; mix with four ounces of 
bread (one fourth a loaf), one fourth a cup of butter, melted; add 
one tablespoonful of parsley, chopped fine, and the beaten yolk of 
an egg. 

STUFFING FOR DUCKS, GEESE, AND PORK 

Parboil three small, mild-flavored onions in two waters. Then 
boil until tender, In the meantime, scald eight or ten sage leaves 



GALANTINE OF CHICKEN OR TURKEY 159 

in hot water, allowii^ them to stand five minutee. Drjr thoroaghly 
and chop with the onions until the mixture is very fine; add one 
cup and a quarter of fine bread crumbs (five ounces), one fourth a 
teaspoonful, each, of paprika (or spiced pepper) and salt. When 
well mixed, add two tablespoonfuls of butter and bind together 
with an egg, well beaten. 

GUINEA FOWL, ROASTED 

Singe, clean, wash and truss two guinea fowl; put a slice or two 
of bacon inside of each, rub over the outside with salt, pepper and 
flour and fasten a slice of salt pork or bacon over the breast of each. 
Set to cook, breast downward, in a hot oven. Baste each fifteen 
minutes; turn the breast uppermost during the last of the cooking. 
Cook about two hours, or until the joints separate easily. Dredge 
with flour af te* each basting imtil nicely colored. Serve with bread 
sauce in a bowl and cress salad on a dish apart. Season the cress 
with French dressing. 

BOILED FOWL, POULETTE SAUCE 

Have the fowl (one year) carefully drawn, singed, cleaned; and 
washed; truss as for roasting, rub over the skin with the cut side 
of a lemon (to keep it white), then tie in a piece of cheesecloth. 
Have about three cups Of water boiling in an agate saucepan; put 
in the fowl and cover close; let boil fifteen minutes, then let simmer 
imtil tender. Add more water if needed, but, when the fowl is 
cooked, the quantity should not exceed one pint. Add half a 
teaspoonful of salt, when the fowl is nearly cooked. Set the fowl 
on a hot dish. Melt one fourth a cup of butter; in it cook one 
fourth a cup of flour and half a teaspoonful of paprika: add three 
fourths a cup of cream and the pint of broth and stir constantly 
until boiling; let boil about five minutes; remove from the fire, 
pour two or three tablespoonfuls on the well-beaten yolks of two 
eggs, mix thoroughly and gradually stir into the sauce. Pour the 
sauce over the chicken and serve at once. Fine-chopped parsley 
may be sprinkled over the whole. Boiled rice may be served 
aroxmd the chicken or in a separate dish, 

QALANTINB OF CHICKEN OR TURKEY, BRAISED 

Spread out the turkey or fowl, boned according to directions for 
a galantine, skin side down, push the legs and wings inside and 
trim where needed to secure a rectangular shape. Sprinkle with 



i6o PRACTICAL COOKING AND SERVING 

salt, pepper, onion juice, and fine-chopped paxsley. Dispose 
lengthwise upon this cubical strips of cold, cooked tongue and large 
lardoons of cold, cooked salt pork. Fill the space between with 
raw chicken, or veal, scraped from the fibres, pounded in a mortar 
and seasoned with salt, pepper, chopped mushrooms, chopped 
parsley, and thyme moistened with stock or milk; then, com- 
mencing at one end, roll up very tightly like a jelly-roll and sew 
through the skin securely. To be served moulded in jelly, rub the 
outside with the cut side of a lemon to keep it white. After the 
roll has been tied or sewed in shape, wrap in a piece of cheesecloth, 
tie at the ends, also at one or two other places. Put the bones 
and trimmings of the fowl, a knuckle of veal, and half a cup of finely 
cut vegetables in a large casserole or stewpan, cover with cold 
water, and when the boiling point is reached, put the galantine on 
top of the bones and after boiling a few moments let simmer four 
to six hours. Let partly cool in the kettle, then unroll the cloth, 
which will be loose and wrinkled, and make it firm and smooth; 
let the galantine cool under a weight. Remove the cloth and wipe 
off the fat with a cloth wrung out of hot water. It may now be 
finished in one of several ways: moulded in aspic jelly; glazed; 
covered with chaudfroid sauce and decorated; or brushed over 
with beaten yolk of egg, sprinkled with fresh bread crumbs and 
browned in the oven (see illustration, page 176.) To glaze, set the 
dish containing the glaze (see page 212) in a vessel of hot' water, 
and when melted apply the glaze with a brush. If it is to be 
covered with chaudfroid sauce (see page 209) have the galantine 
thoroughly chilled, then fill any hollow places with chaudfroid 
sauce, and when firm pour sauce over the whole; when nearly firm 
again, decorate with truffles, cooked white of egg, or sifted yolk of 
egg. When these are "set," brush over with liquid aspic jelly. 
Garnish the dish with blocks and triangles of aspic jelly, the 
blocks hollowed out a little to hold stuffed olives or pimolas. A 
galantine may be moulded in aspic jelly (see pages 247 and 251). 
Use the stock in which the galantine was cooked for the aspic jdly. 
The galantine in the illustration (see page 176) when hot was 
brushed over with beaten yolk of egg, sprinkled with fresh bread- 
crumbs and browned in the oven. An imboned fowl, or tiurkey 
trussed as for roasting, but without stuffing, may be braised m the 
same manner as the galantine. A galantine may be made of a 
boned breast of veal, or lamb, or of a boned fish. Haddock with 
halibut forcemeat is particularly good with a green salad. Salmon 
may be introduced for color. 



CHICKEN SAUTE 16.1 

BROILED CHICKEN WITH SWEET POTATOES 

Clean and draw a young chicken following the directions given 
on page 150, wipe carefully, brush over the inner side with oil or 
melted butter, squeeze over it the juice of a lemon, add sliced onions 
and bits of parsley, let stand an hour or more, then broil in a well- 
oiled broiler very slowly twenty minutes, or until the thickest part 
of the flesh seems cooked. Turn the chicken frequently; the skin 
browns very quickly and the cooking is principally done on the 
flesh side; baste frequently with the marinade. Remove to a hot 
platter, spread with two tablespoonfuls of creamed butter, to 
which a dash of paprika and a teaspoonful of fine-chopped cress 
has been added, adding also a few grains of salt. To shorten the 
time of cooking over the coals, and thus lessening the danger of 
burning, put the chicken in the broiler over a dripping pan in a hot 
oven, basting frequently, and when nearly cooked brown over the 
coals. In the South a strip of bacon would be skewered upon each 
side of the breast. Have ready two sweet-potatoes, parboiled and 
cut in thin slices lengthwise, fasten the slices of each potato to- 
gether at one end with a skewer, then spread them like a fan, brush 
over with butter, sprinkle with sugar and cinnamon and bake in a 
hot oven, basting occasionally with melted butter. 

CHICKEN saute' NO. 1. 

Disjoint a full-grown chicken. Marinate the pieces — i.e., ^oour 
over them three or four tablespoonfuls of oil — dust with salt and 
pepper, strew with an onion sliced in rings, and add the juice of a 
lemon. Let stand several hours, or a day. Half an hour before 
serving cut a slice of salt pork in bits and try out the fat; remove the 
onions from the chicken and wipe the pieces on a doth; dip them in 
milk and flour them well; then saute in the hot fat imtil a golden 
brown on all sides. Serve piled on a napkin, with bread sauce iii a 
boat. 

CHICKEN saute', WITH COLBERT SAUCE 

Truss a chicken as for roasting, using a trussing needle and twine 
rather than skewers. Cook in boiling water, or stock, six or eight 
minutes; drain, split through the back lengthwise, and place be- 
neath a weight without breaking the bones. When cold brush 
over with beaten egg, dust with salt and pepper, and cover with 



i63 PRACTICAL COOKING AND SERVING 

bread crumbs. In a large saute pan heat some clarified butter, or 
salt-pork fat, and in it saute the diicken slowly to a dehcate brown. 
Then put into the oven and cook about an hour longer, according 
to age, basting every ten minutes. Drain and serve with Colbert 
sauce, (see page mj). 

CHICKEN SAUTE WITH CAULIFLOWER 

Cut the chicken into ten pieces, and saute as No. i. To serve, 
place the drumsticks on a large chop dish with small ends together 
and the other ends turned to the right and left; beyond these place 
the two body pieces with the second joints resting upon ttiem. 
Dispose the breast in an upright position between the drumsticks 
with the "merry thought" resting against the second joints; above 
the joints, the wings and the pinions at the ends of the two body 
pieces. If there are two chickens, repeat the arrangement on the 
other side. Separate a hot boiled cauliflower into flowerets and 
aitange about tiie diicken. Pour a cream sauce over the whole, 
or serve the sauce apart. A fowl a year dd should be parboiled 
before saut6ing. 

CREOLE CHICKEN 

Joint a young fowl; season with salt and pqiper and saut^ to a 
golden brown in hot salt pork fat or butter, together with two 
onions sliced thin. When all are well browned, remove the fowl 
and cook one fourth a cup of flour in the fat; then add one 
cup each, of white stock and tomato pulp and in this simmer 
the fowl imtil tender, adding more stock if needed. Arrange the 
joints in a drde upon the serving-dish. To the sauce add a table- 
spoonful of tarragon vinegar and other seasonings as required, strain 
and reheat in it one fourth a pound of macaroni, cooked and 
blanched. With this fill in the centre of the cirde. Garnish with 
Celfery leaves or parsley. 

CASSEROLE OF CHICKEN 

Disjoint a yomig chicken. Heat three tablespoonfuls of butter 
in a frying-pan and saute in it the chicken and a small onion and 
half a carrot, both cut in slices. In a casserole put the chicken, 
and one cup and a half of white stock; cover dosely and let cook 
three fourths an hour, or until nearly tender. Add a dozen potato- 
balls, cut with French cutter and browned; half a dozen mushroom 



FRICASSEE Of CHICKEN 163 

caps, peeled and saut6d in butter; one third a cup of sherry wine, 
and a piece of bay leaf. Season with salt and pepper, let cook ten 
minutes, remove the fat and serve in the casserole. A strip of 
brown paper, or cotton cloth is often spread with flour paste and 
pressed over the joining of the cover and dish to keep in the flavor 
while cooking. Pigeons, birds, partridges, etc., are cooked in the 
same manner. Small button onions after being parboiled are 
often added. 

The chicken and vegetables may be sauted in a frying-pan and 
then removed to the casserole. Or this preliminary saute- 
ing may be omitted. Fowl, birds, pigeons, partridges, Belgian 
hare, chops, beef, or venison steak may be cooked in the same 
manner; Green peas are often used in place of the potato balls^ 
especially with pigeons or chops. Bacon fat is often used in the 
preliminary sauteing and inch pieces of cooked sliced bacon are 
added with the meat to the casserole. Fowl and hare are cut in 
joints, pigeons and partridges are halved, and birds left whole. 

FRICASSEE OF CHICKEN 

Separate a chicken weighing about three pounds and a half into 
pieces at the joints, and wipe carefully with a damp cloth, washing 
any pieces that require it; put into a saucepan with a quart of cold 
water, an onion with a clove pressed into it, a kitchen bouquet and 
half a teaspoonful of salt. Bring the water quickly to the boiling 
Doint, let boil ten minutes, skim off the coagulated juices that rise 
to the top, lest they settle upon the chicken and cause it to look 
unsightly, then move to a cooler part of the range and let simmer 
until the chicken is tender. Drain the chicken from the broth. 
Melt one third a cup of butter, add one third a cup of flour, and 
salt and pepper as needed, and when blended add the chicken 
broth gradually, first straining out the vegetables; let simmer 
fifteen minutes; iDcat two tablespoonfuls of butter to a cream, then 
beat in the yolks of four eggs, one at a time, dilute with a little 
of the hot sauce, return the mixture to the saucepan, put in the 
pieces of chicken and let heat over hot water. Arrange the 
pieces of chicken on the serving dish as in "Chicken Saute with 
Cauliflower," and pour over the sauce. A dozen small mush» 
rooms, prepared inthe usual manner (see page 289) and added 
with the chicken to the sauce, are an improvement to this dish. 
Garnish the edge of the dish with toast points. 



i64 PRACTICAL COOKING AND SERVING 

STEWED CHICKEN WITH ASPARAGUS 

Stew a fowl, cut in joints, and season when half cooked. When 
tender keep hot while a bunch of asparagus is cooked in the broth. 
Remove the asparagus to a slice of toast. Thicken the liquid 
with flour, let simmer ten minutes, then stir in the beaten yolks of 
two eggs with a cup of cream; add seasoning, if needed, and a table- 
spoonful of lemon juice, and dispose the fowl about the asparagus. 
Pour the sauce over the asparagus and fowl. Garnish with toast 
points and asparagus tips. 

CHICKEN A LA BONNE-FEMME 

Prepare a chicken as for a fricassee; put half a cup of butter into 
a stewpan, add a sliced onion and carrot sliced, and saut6 five min- 
utes, stirring with a wooden spoon; put in the pieces of chicken 
dusted with salt and pepper and saut£ five minutes; add half a 
cup of flour and stir until blended, then add three cups of white 
broth or water and enough tomatoes, skin removed and broken 
into pieces, to make a cup; stir \mtil boiling, then simmer until 
tender. Add a dozen mushrooms prepared as usual and a table- 
spoonful of fine-chopped parsley with additional salt and pepper 
if needed. 

BOILED CHICKEN WITH TOMATO SAUCE 

Prepare and truss the chicken for boiling; rub it over on the out- 
side with a lemon cut in halves and cover securely with a buttered 
paper to keep the meat white, cook in the usual manner, and serve 
with three cups of tomato sauce. Use the chicken broth in making 
the sauce. 

STEAMED FOWL ON A MOUND OF RICE WITH 
MUSHROOMS 

Truss a fowl for boiling; rub with the cut side of a lemon and lay 
on slices of salt pork or bacon, and steam with an onion and two 
or three stalks of celery until tender — three hours or longer. Have 
ready a mound of boiled rice, seasoned with butter and salt, and 
dispose the fowl upon this. Arrange mushrooms cooked in the 
usual manner against the rice. Serve with the chicken liquor 
strained, thickened with a roux and enriched with two egg yolks, 
beaten with half a cup of cream. 



- Vv '^ '*» .fif-j 




HAM CROUTONS. (See page 146.) 




BOSTON BAKED BEANS. 
Garnish: Cucumber pickles, sliced and spread fan fashion. 




(See page 144.,* 




SAUSAGE WITH APPLE SAUCE. (See page 143.) 




COLD HAM, BAKED WITH CIDER, ON BED OF LETTUCE RIBBONS 
(See page 145.) 




COLD BOILED HAM, SLICED THIN 
Garnish: Nasturtium leaves and blossoms. 



CANVAS-BACK AND RED-HEAD DUCKS 165 

CURRY OF CHICKEN, BELGIAN HARE, ETC. 

Cut a cleaned chicken or bare into pieces at the joints and season 
with salt, paprika and ginger. Let stand while three onions and 
two sour apples, with a kitchen bouquet, are fried in half a cup 
of butter or dripping to a golden brown; then put in the joints; 
cover the pan and let saut6 eight or ten minutes. Sprinkle in half 
a grated cocoanut, add the milk from the nut (or use a cup of 
almond milk, see page 31) stirred gradually into three tablespoon- 
fuls of flour, and one of curry powder, two red-pepper pods, cut in 
shreds; a pint of stock, or hot water, and the juice of a lemon, and 
let simmer one hour. Take up the joints of meat and keep them 
hot; pass the sauce through a very fine sieve. Form a border of 
boiled rice on a serving-dish and within it dispose the meat with 
the sauce poured over. 

GAME 

CANVASBACK AND RED-HEAD DUCKS 

Carefully draw, pick, and singe the birds; wipe very clean, or 
wash, if preferred, using salted water. In dressing leave on the 
head — and the feet, if desired — so that those familiar with ducks 
may know by the shape, etc., of the head what kind of a duck is 
presented. When drawing the birds, cut a lengthwise slit over the 
crop, and, after the windpipe and all other appendages have been 
removed and the duck carefully cleaned, pass the head through this 
opening into the inside of the duck, tfien reach in and pull it 
through, letting emerge at the opening, made in drawing, between 
the drumsticks. Run a threaded trussing needle through the leg 
the neck and out through the second leg, return to the first side in 
the same way, leaving a short stitch on flie opposite side; tie tightly 
to keep the head in place. When the duck is roasted, cut this 
stitch and draw out the threads by the knot on the other side. Cut 
off the wings at the second joint. If the feet be left on, dip them 
into scalding water and rub off the thin outer layer of skin. Twist 
the legs out of joint at the point where the flesh begins and double 
them backward on the upper part of the leg. Pass the tail through 
the vent. Authorities differ as to salting wild duck before cooking 
and basting while cooking, but all agree that the oven in which 
they are placed should be very hot. The time required for cookng 
is from eighteen minutes, for very rare, to forty minutes, for very 
well-done birds. Often wild duck are trussed in a manner similar 



i66 PRACTICAL COOKING AND SERVING 

to fowl. A bunch of celery is thrust inside of the body, the neck is 
cut off close to the breastbone, and the skin is tiurned over and 
fastened down on the back with a stitch that holds the wings in 
place. The head, from which the eyes have been removed, is 
placed in the opening made in drawing the duck and fastened there 
by a thread passing through the legs and eye-sockets, which is 
returned in the same manner to the first leg and tied. 

PIGEONS STEWED IN BROTH 

Clean, singe, and truss the pigeons in the same manner as fowls. 
Cut as many sUces of bacon as pigeons into bits; put into a sauce- 
pan with a sliced onion, brown slightly, then put in the pigeons, a 
sprig or two of parsley, and a bay leaf; half cover with water or 
light stock and let simmer imtil tender, turning once or twice and 
adding salt and pepper and more liquid if needed. When tender, 
cut and draw the threads with which the birds were trussed, and 
dispose the pigeons in nests of hot spinach arranged on sUces of 
toast. Garnish with stuffed olives. Remove the fat from the 
broth, thicken it with flour smoothed in water, strain and use as 

a sauce. 

PIGEONS IN A CASSEROLE 

See chicken in casserole, (page 162). 

BROILED SQUABS 

Split the squabs through the back and breast, brush with melted 
butter, or lay a slice of bacon on each half and set into a hot oven 
ten minutes. If not browned enough, finish the cooking over clear 
coals. Serve on slices of toast moistened with dripping in the 
pan. 

GROUSE ROASTED (DARK MEAT) 

Truss as chicken, put a piece of butter inside each bird and roast 
in a hot oven from twenty to thirty minutes, basting frequently 
with melted butter, or fat from salt pork. When about cooked — 
dark-meated game is served rare — season with salt and dredge with 
flour. Serve on moistened toast, spread with the liver cooked, 
mashed fine and seasoned with butter, salt, and pepper, and a few 
drops of lemon juice. Serve with apple sauce. Bread sauce, or 
clear gravy may be served in a dish apart. If bread sauce accom- 
pany the roast, sprinkle the bird with bread crumbs browned in 
butter, 



VENISON 167 

BROILED GROUSE 

Cut the grouse in halves through the breast and back, season 
and dip in oil, or melted butter and then in bread crumbs, and broil 
in a double-broiler over a moderate fire, turning when well done 
on the flesh side. When done spread with maitre d'h6tel butter. 

QUAILS ROASTED (WHITE MEAT) 

Truss the quails with the legs standing upward, in other respects 
the same as a chicken. Lard the breast and draw two lardoons 
into each leg. Cover the legs and the feet, when these are retained, 
with salt pork and bake ^teen to twenty minutes basting very 
often. If the breast be not larded, cover with a thin bit of bacon 
or pork. Serve on moistened toast with currant jelly, or with 
bread sauce. Quails are often broiled. 

PARTRIDGE, ROASTED, BROILED AND BOILED (WHITE 

MEAT) 

Truss and roast the same as a chicken, basting frequently. It 
will take about forty minutes to cook. Serve with bread, or 
Bechamel sauce. Prepare for broiling the same as chicken, brush 
over the inside with ok or melted butter and broil about twenty- 
five minutes on the flesh side, then brown on the skin side. The 
fire needs be moderate, and the broiling may be done to advantage 
in the oven, as partridge need basting very often, the meat being 
dry. Partridge boiled or served in a fricassee (white) are very good. 

VENISON 

Cuts of venison correspond to those of mutton. The haunch, 
or leg, and thef saddle are roasted. In roasting the saddle,the flank 
may be removed or not. When retained, a few stalks of celery may 
be rolled in each flank; these are then trussed or skewered close to 
the backbone . Thus treated the saddle presents a good appearance 
— but the flank is much more edible when it is stewed, or made into 
a ragout — and the roast requires longer cooking. To serve, cut 
the meat in slices parallel to tie backbone, then turn the knife and 
separate the shces from the bones below. Cut the tenderloin 
beneath in the same way, the roast being reversed upon the serving 
dish for the purpose. Or the tenderloin may be cut and put back 
in place before the roast is sent to the table. Serve with currant 



i68 PRACTICAL COOKING AND SERVING 

jelly and an endive, or escarole salad. Rings of tart apple cooked 
in syrup make an attractive garnish for roast venison. The haunch 
is usually soaked in a marinade several days before cooking. 

VENISON STEAK AND CUTLETS 

Venison steak and cutlets are broiled, or pan-broiled as beefsteak. 
Being dry, they are usually served with a sauce. Cunant jelly 
and Bernaise sauces are suitable. 

QUAIL ROASTED IN QRAPE LEAVES (PICAYUNE'S 
CREOLE COOK BOOK) 

6 fine quail. The juice of i lemon. 

2 tablespoonsf uls of butter. 6 slices of buttered toast 

1 tablespoonful of water. 12 grape leaves. 

Green grape jelly. 

Butter the inside of the singed, cleaned, and wiped quail and 
sprinkle lightly with salt and pepper, rub Ughtly on the outside 
with butter, then truss and wrap the birds in fresh grape leaves; 
set on the rack in a baking pan, put the butter in the pan and roast 
the birds from twenty to thirty minutes. Have ready the slices 
of buttered toast, add the butter, water, and lemon juice to the 
gravy in the pan, let cook three or four minutes, strain and set on 
the fire two minutes longer, then pour over the breasts of the birds. 
"The grape leaves impart a very peculiar and grateful flavor to 
the quail." Serve the jelly with the quail. 

BELGIAN HARE 

Belgian hare are served roasted, braised in stews ajid en casserole. 
They are also particularly good separated into joints and made 
into a curry, or cooked as chicken a la Maryland. If the hare be 
stuffed (bread, or green herb stuffing) longer roasting is required. 
For roasting, the head may be retained and the legs cut off at the 
first joint, or the head may be removed. Cut the sinews beneath 
the legs, truss, or skewer the hind legs toward the head, and bring 
the forelegs backward toward the hind ones, holding them in 
position with a skewer, or trussing needle passed through the leg 
and body. Brush over the outside with bacon fat or dripping, cover 
the back with slices of slitted bacon (see Veal Loaf, page 136), 
tying them in place, and sprinkle with salt and pepper; roast about 



BELGIAN HARE EN CASSEROLE 169 

half an hour, basting every five minutes. When done remove the 
hewers or strings and garnjsh with water cress alone, or with a 
slice or two of tomato. Serve with a thick brown sauce, diluted 
with two tablespoonfuls of port wine and one tablespoonful of red- 
currant jelly to each cup of sauce. Add also the blanched liver 
cut in slices. The fillets and tops of the legs may be larded; in 
this case cover the larding with buttered paper imtil the last five 
minutes of cooking, then remove to crisp the lardoons. Green 
gooseberry sauce may be served apart in the place of the brown 
sauce. 

BELGIAN HARE EN CASSEROLE 

Separate the dressed hare into pieces at the joints; season with 
paprika and salt and saute in one fourth a cup of butter and two 
or three slices of bacon, cut in small square pieces, to a golden 
brown; put the meat into the casserole with a cup of port wine, or 
claret, and put on the cover. Let stand in the oven about half an 
hour, then add a pint of stock, hot water, or thickened sauce, a 
tablespoonful of lemon juice, half a sweet red-pepper pod, and a 
kitchen bouquet; spread a paper or cloth covered with paste over 
the joining of lid and cover and cook in a very moderate oven about 
kJiree hours. Remove the bouquet before serving. Two dozen 
Dlanched button onions or sauted mushrooms may be added with 
the stock. 



CHAPTER VI 
Soups and Soup Making 

"Muse, sing the man that did to Paris go, 
That he might taste their soups, and mushrooms know." 

"French cookery owes its superiority over that of other nations only te 
(the excellence of French) bouillon." — Aiexandee Dumas. 

"Ab nihUo, nihil fit." 

Ix is written that the chefs of France in the time of Louis, Le 
Grand Monarqtie, devised boiiillon and consoinm6 because mastica- 
tion was considered vulgar. In reality, the French use of broth 
in cookery was occasioned by necessity. For France at that time 
was lacking in oil, butter, and the animal fats used with spices by 
other nations for the production of moist dishes of richness and 
flavor. The French learned many things in cookery from the 
Italians, but neither the ancients nor the Italians had ever made 
any application of the broth of meat in general cookery. 

The origin of soups in their simpler forms dates back to the 
childhood of the world. Tyler, in his " Early History of Mankind," 
refers repeatedly to flesh cooked by the process of "stone-boiling," : 
in the paunch or hide of the slaughtered beast; and he says, "For 
drink they have the broth of the meat." According to the his- 
torians, those peoples who cooked their food in this way ranked 
a grade higher in civilization than they who simply broiled or 
roasted their meat ova: the fire, the earliest and amplest form of 
cookery. When we fed that the larger part of a day is too much 
time to be consumed in making soup stods, it may be comforting 
to consider for a moment the time and labor involved in "stone- 
boiling." Into the hide were put water and the flesh to be cooked 
and then the stones, made hot in the fire, were dropped in to re- 
main until they became cool, when others were put in their places. 

Soups are classified first, in accordance with the presence or 
absence of "stock" as a foimdation. By stock, in soup making, 
is meant those juices and soluble portimis of meat, or fish, together 

170 



SOUPS AND sou:? MAKING 171 

ith soluble portions of bone and vegetables, which have been 
tracted by slow cooking and stored for future use. This material 
more or less solid after it has become cold, according to the 
ilatmous nature of the ingredients and the proportions of meat 
fish and water it contains. Bouillon and consomme belong to 
is class of soups. 

Soups, made without stock as a basis, are called soups maigre, 
om a French word meaning lean, or poor. The pottage for which 
3au sold his birthright was probably a soup of this kind, being 
ade of the red lentils of Egypt. Many soups of this class, how- 
'er, are often made with stock as a part of the liquid. 
The following outline may serve as a guide to the proper under- 
anding of the subject: 

{Standard broth. 
Bouillon. 
Consommfi. 
Miscellaneous. 
Unclassified. f , . 

I Flam purfie. 

^"P'- Wavbemade f^"'^^" r'"^"^" 

IMay De made 1 (.Cream. 

^without stock. \ Chowder. 

(^Unclassified. 

Fruit soups are quite generally used on the continent of Europe, 
ore particularly in Germany. In this country they are used 
iefly as an appetizer, or at a luncheon. Besides the general names 
i^en above, soups receive special names from their color: as white, 
own, or amber; or from the garnishing used, as macaroni, noodle, 
juhenne. 

Soups are thin or thick according to the absence or presence of 
iterial that gives body, or consistence to the liquid. This 
iterial is either roux (see page ar), blond or brown, according 
the color of the soup, meuniere, i.e., flour, cornstarch, or arrow- 
ot mixed with water, one tablespoonful of the former to four of 
e latter, egg yolks beaten and diluted with cream or milk, two 
Iks to half a cup of liquid, or starchy material, as barley, rice, 
go, tapioca. 

iRoux 
Meunifire 
Egg yolks 
Grains, 
Tapioca, etc. 



172 PRACTICAL COOKING AND SERVING 

Roux may be added to any soups that have not been clarified. 
It is usually added to soups made of the legumes, or potatoes. 
Stir a little of the hot soup gradually into the roux, and when 
smoothly diluted stir the mixture into the soup kettle; stir con- 
tinuously until the soup boils, then let simmer ten minutes. Add 
the meuniSre in the same manner as the roux, but let cook at least 
twenty minutes in the soup. Arrowroot may be iwed in a clear 
soup — a level tablespoonful to a quart — flour, cornstarch, or 
arrowroot may be used in other soups. To beaten yolks of eggs 
diluted with liquid add gradually a little of the hot soup, then stir 
into the soup, which should not be let rise to boiling point, stir 
until the egg looks cooked, then turn at once into the tureen. If 
the soup boils after the egg is added, it will present a ciurdled 
appearance. Rice or barley is often cooked in a chicken or 
mutton soup: sago and tapioca may be used in almost any soups, 
excepting cream soup, pur6es and the like. These may be cooked 
in a little water and added to the soup, or cooked in the stock. 

A clear soup is a most fitting and agreeable prelude to a cere- 
monial dinner. It is a savor to health before any dinner, as it is 
quickly absorbed by the linings of the stomach and gently stimulates 
that organ to take care of the more substantial nourishment that 
is to follow. A cream soup, pur6e, bisque, or chowder is sub- 
stantial in itself and may fittingly form the chief article of a meal 
for rich or poor alike. 

SOUPS WITH STOCK 

As cream soups are a means of utilizing whatever vegetables are 
left over from a previous meal, or day, so many a soup made from 
stock furnishes an opportunity to use up the "odds and ends" of 
meat and bone that accumulate from (Jay to day. Indeed, if we 
are to get all the nutriment possible from oiu" various food supplies, 
it is absolutely necessary to take a part of our food in the form of 
soup. 

Now, by this we do not wish to imply that the stock pot, or the 
soup kettle, should be steaming over the fire all the tune. Except 
on some of the hottest summer days, the various odds and ends 
may be kept on hand for several days, until a sufiScient amount is 
collected, Uien they may be cooked at once, and the liquor strained 
and set aside. On no account keep the kettle over the fire day 
after day. Soups in perfection cannot be drawn from such a source. 




TRUSSED TURKEY, FEET RETAINED TO SHOW TENDONS 
DRAWN FROM FIRST JOINT. (See page 153.) 




CHICKEN DRESSED FOR BROILING. (See page 161.) 




BACK OF CHICKEN TRUSSED FOR ROASTING 
'See page 153.) 




ROAST TURKEY. 
Garnish of sausage cakes and celery. (See page 154. J 




STEAMED FOWL ON A MOUyD OF RICE AND MUSHROOMS. 
(See page 164.) 




FRENCH 



MATERIALS USED IN MAKING STOCK 173 

MATERIALS USED IN MAKING STOCK 

Every kind of meat, as beef, mutton, lamb, veal, poultry, game, 
:., may be used in stock making, either alone or in cornbination. 
In large families, where roasts of beef, mutton or poultry are 
ten weekly, but little fresh meat need be purchased for soups, 
less it be for some formal occasion, when a handsome, clear soup 
desired. Yet remember that "ab nihUo, nihil fit." 
As the individual or distinctive flavor of different kinds of meat 
more highly developed in a cooked than in an uncooked state, 
d as browned meats give a corresponding color to soup, it is 
Ql, particularly in making brown stock, to brown a portion of 
e meat used in making stock for clear soups. 
A small quantity of fat is a wholesome addition to any soup. A 
It of this will be absorbed by the stock during the cooking proc- 
i, and the part that is not thus absorbed will rise to the top, 
rming a solid cake, which may be removed when the stock is cold. 
When imcooked meats are used for a soup, the marrow found in 
e shin of the hindquarter is the best form of fat that can be 
itained. In soups made from remnants, the browned fat of 
asts gives a good flavor, and occasionally a bit of ham or bacon 
ay be used; only two or three ounces, however, for a large dish of 
up, as in a perfectly flavored soup no one savor should pre- 
)minate. 

Expensive cuts of beef are not so well adapted to soup making as 
le dheaper pieces. The blood flows more freely to those parts of 
;e creature that are in constant use, and, though this use toughens 
e muscles, the life-giving jmces are there, and long, slow cooking 
ill remove them. Select then, for stock, the imder part of the 
und, the vein, neck, flank, cheek, and shin, tough and inexpensive 
eces, but full of nutriment. 

In making fish stock for general use in fish soups or entries, select 
e white-blooded varieties. The head and trimmings are valuable 
cause they contain gelatinous material, often desirable, and also 
nsiderable flesh, but, aside from this, solid pieces of fish contain- 
y the albuminous juices are needed. Salmon, lobster, and other 
i-blooded fish need be used with discretion. 
As a general rule, that which is extracted from bones is the least 
sirable element that enters into a soup; particularly is this the 
se with beef bones, and if there be no bits of meat upon the bones, 
ere woidd seem to be little reason for including them in soup 
iking. If bone be used and the liquid be cooked at a high tern- 



174 PR^VCTICAL COOKING AND SERVING 

perature, lime is dissolved into the soup, giving it a cloudy appear- 
ance. The bones of chicken and veal are rich in delicate gelatine, 
and this is often desirable to give body to a soup. Gelatine is also 
a preservative agent, as stock that jellies, air being excluded, keeps 
much better than stock in a Hquid form. 

THE SOUP KETTLE 

In making stock all the nutriment and flavors possible are to be 
drawn out from the various ingredients and retained in the stock; 
but when once the volatile odors of fowl, vegetable and herb have 
escaped from the saucepan and permeated the house, we cannot 
bring them back again to the soup plate and this appetizing aroma 
is lost. So often nothing is left for serving but a thin, watery 
hquid, in appearance gray and cloudy from the lime extracted from 
the bones. First of all, then, let the soup kettle be fiurnished with 
a tight-fitting cover. And, moreover, let this utensil be of agate, 
or graniteware and as nearly free from blemishes as possible. For 
acid, found in all flesh, attacks unprotected iron, and thus gives an 
inky color to the soup. Scrupulous cleanliness is just as essential 
to Uie making of a fine-flavored soup as in the making of a fine cup 
of coffee. Both the coffee-pot and the soup kettle must be scoured 
frequently and well aired after each use. 

TEMPERATURE AND TIME OF COOKING 

The first step in soup making consists in drawing out the soluble 
juices and flavoring constituents into the water; the second step 
is in keeping that which has been drawn out in a wholesome and 
agreeable condition. Since cold water is best fitted to extract 
juices, cut the meat, after wiping the outside with a damp cloth, 
into small bits, in order that as much surface as possible may be 
brought into contact with the water. Break or saw the bones 
into small pieces, put into the kettle and add cold water as it is 
required. After the meat has stood half an hour, or until the water 
is well colored, place the kettle over the fire and gradually heat the 
contents to the boiling point and skim; then, in accordance with 
what has been said before in regard to the coagulation of albumen 
and other juices of flesh at a temperature below i8o° Fahr., and the 
loss of delicacy and digestibility when cooked at higher temperature, 
let the contents of soup kettle gently simmer, or bubble slowly and 
constantly five or six hours. 



JELLYING STOCK J7S 

A celebrated cook once said: "Let the contents of the soup 
digester boil but once and the soup is ruined." To some this may 
seem an extravagant statement; but it loses all such significance, 
when one stops to consider the delicate flavor, the bright sparkle, 
and rich clearness of a consomme, or an amber soup that has been 
cooked at a low temperature, while all are familiar with the strong 
odor and the cloudy appearance of a soup that has been cooked at a 
temperature such that the lid of the kettle, when removed, was 
found covered with particles of coagulated albumen, deposited there 
by the furiously "galloping" liquid. 

Cook, then, meat at a low temperature; cook until it is in rags 
and colorless, the juice and flavor having been withdrawn. About 
one hoiur before this stage is reached add the vegetables and season- 
ing. Strain off the liquor from the bones, meat, and vegetables, 
pressing out every drop of juice, and set aside where it will cool 
quickly. 

If the fowl, or any portion of the meat used in soup making, is 
to be served apart, wait until the contents of the kettle are heated 
to about 170° Fahr., then put in that which you wish to serve apart 
from the soup, and allow it to cook at this low temperature until 
it becomes tender, then remove at once. 

JELLYING STOCK 

Stock, whether made from fresh meat, or from odds and ends, 
solidifies when it becomes cold, if it contains a goodly amount of 
gelatine. This constituent of meat, in the flesh, tendons and bones 
of young animals, is more soluble than it is in those of more mature 
age. It is found largely in the bones and tendons, but there is also 
a considerable quantity in the connective tissues of the lean meat. 
It takes, moreover, a higher degree of heat to extract gelatine from 
meat than some other oomstituesnts. A bouillon, therefore, made 
entirely of lean meat, wiU jelly or become solid, if there be taken a 
pound of meat to a pint of water and the juices be extracted at a 
temperature between 180" and 200° Fahr. 

Stock tJiat jellies may be kept longer than that in a liquid state, 
as the air does not penetrate it readily. This is the case, more 
especially, if the stock be strained into bowls of a size convenient 
for future use and the covering of fat be kept intact- The addition 
of vegetables is not desirable, tf the stock is to be kept, for the juices 
of vegetables sour more quickly than the juices of meat. 



176 PRACTICAL COOKING AND SERVING 

PROPORTIONS OF VARIOUS INGREDIENTS 

In what is known as standard broth (bouillon) of beef, mutton, 
or fowl, etc., each pint of broth contains tJie soluble part (in simmer- 
ing water) of one poxmd of fresh meat, with or without bones; this 
broth needs never be concentrated, but it may be diluted. To 
secure this broth requires not over three cups of water to each 
pound of meat, without bone. When bone is used, which takes up 
at least one fourth the entire weight, one pint of water to each pound 
of meat and bone as sent from the market will allow for evaporation 
and keep the correct proportion. When the broth is finished, hot 
water may be added, if the quantity does not equal the standard. 
Add for each quart of broth one teaspoonful of salt, one teaspoonful 
of sweet herbs and one tablespoonful, each, of the vegetables desired, 
a sprig of parsley, a bay leaf, three or four peppercorns, or a blade 
of mace may also be added at discretion. 

When the stock is made from "left overs," the amount of sea- 
soning shoiild be the same per quart, but the quantity of water 
should be reduced to just enough to cover the ingredients. 

As the quantity of alkaline and acid salts is larger in the blood, 
and juices of uncooked than of cooked fiesh, it is well to add a small 
portion of raw, lean meat to stock made from the remnants of 
cooked food. On this account, it is advisable to remove the flank 
ends of steaks and chops and add them, uncooked, to the soup 
kettle. 

KINDS OF SOUP STOCK 

Brown soup stock is made from dark colored meats and various 
vegetables. A part of the meat, or fish and vegetables, is browned 
before it is added to the water. White soup stock is made from 
light-colored meats, as veal and chicken; no vegetables that give 
color are used. Onion and celery are the vegetables most often 
used in making white soup stock. The stock may be thickened, or 
served without thickening. In hot weather stock needs to be 
scalded each day, but in winter it will keep several days. 

CLEARING STOCK 

Sometimes a soup is served that presents a dear, sparkling ap- 
pearance, or stock is moulded into a clear jelly (aspic). To secure 
this condition, the stock is cleared. For this purpose a substance 
rich in albumen, as the whites of eggs, also the shells to which 



VEGETABLE STOCK FOR SOUP MAIGRE 177 

msiderable white adheres, or raw meat, chopped fine, are used. 
1 ordinary home cooking, the whites and shells of eggs are oftenest 
>ed. 

Suppose the stock has been made according to the direction given 
jove and is now cold. Remove the fat; if the stock has jellied, 
ring a cloth out of warm water and gently wipe over the surface; 
le doth will take up any particles of fat remaining upon the jelly, 
the stock be liquid, lay a piece of tissue paper upon it, press it 
jhtly upon the liqiud and the fat will adhere to it. Now very 
irefully take off the top of the stock, leaving the portion that is 
ss clear and contains sediment in the bottom of the dish, for some 
;her variety of soup. To each three cups of stock add the crushed 
lell and the white of one egg, slightly beaten; mix together thor- 
ighly and set over the fire to heat, stirring all the time until the 
juid boils. As the liquid becomes heated, the egg coagulates, 
)mbining with itself any fine particles floating in the stock, these 
either brings to the top of the liquid, or it si^s with them to the 
Dttom. Let boil vigorously five minutes, then add half a cup of 
)ld water and set the saucepan aside, or on the back of the range 
ir about five minutes. Skim carefully, then strain through cheese- 
oth spread over a colander or sieve. Reheat and serve. 
If it be desired to use the stock before it has become thoroughly 
jld and the fat " set," with a spoon dip the fat from the top, then 
ut a piece of ice wrapped in a cloth into the stock, holding it near 
le top, and the remaining fat will cling to the cloth and may be 
:moved with the ice. 



VEGETABLE STOCK FOR SOUP MAIQRE 

2 pounds of onions 5 quarts of water. 

(sis large onions). z tablespoonfuls of salt. 

2 pounds of carrots. J red-pepper or 

I head of celery. i teaspoonful of peppercorns. 

3 sprigs of parsley. 4 cloves. 

I J cups of dripping or butter. i quart of dried peas or beans. 

Saut6 the vegetables, cut in pieces, in the dripping to a delicate 
:own color; add the water, cloves, and the legumes that have been 
aked over night, parboiled ten minutes, rinsed and drained. Let 
)il once, then simmer until tender. Strain, let cool, remove the 
t and use as any stock. 



178 PRACTICAL COOKING AND SERVING 

STANDARD BROTH (FISH) 

3 pounds of white fish. i bay leaf. 

3 pints of water. 4 sprigs of parsley. 

1 sliced onion. i red-pepper pod. 
i sliced carrot. 3 cloves. 

2 stalks of celery. Salt. 

Cut the fish in pieces and add the other ingredients; let boil, 
then skim and simmer about an hour and a half; strain and use as 
any stock. The vegetables may be browned in butter, or drippings, 
thus giving a brown stock. In practice, the heads and trimmings 
of fish with a little solid flesh are used for soup making. The broSi 
may be clarified for consomm6, or thickened with a roux and cream 
added for a cream soup, or the flesh may be passed through a sieve 
and added to make a fish purfe. Fish soups are garnished with 
pieces of vegetable or fish quenelle? 

FISH CONSOMME PRINTANIER 

Clarify standard fish broth with white and shells of eggs, or 
chopped fish; strain, reheat, and add as a garnish any early spring 
vegetables left whole, or cut in cubes, or juliennes and cooked. 
Peas, pieces of string beans, asparagus tips, carrot or tiurnip slices 
are among the vegetables so used. 

FORMULA FOR THREE PINTS OF STANDARD BROTH 

(beef, veal, chicken, mutton or game) 

4 pounds of meat (one fourth bone). J sweet pepper. 

4 pints of cold water. ij teaspoonfuls of sweet herbs 

ij teaspoonfuls of salt. (marjoram, thyme, etc.). 

lo or 12 peppercorns or i sprig of parsley. 

4 cloves. ( carrot. 

i^ tablespoonfuls, each of < onion. 

' celery, 
bay leaf. i§ tablespoonfuls of turnip at dis- 

cretion. 

Prepare according to directions previously given; celery seed, or 
root may take the place of fresh celery; meat for stock needs be 
very fresh. Soups from broth may be varied indefinitdy by changes 
in consistency and garnish, one or both. 



CX)NSOMME 179 

BROWN SOUP STOCK 

Brown soup stock is standard broth made qf beef with part of 
the beef and vegetables browned to give color. S^ut€ the meat in 
marrow, or drippings (the best marrow is found in the hind shin), 
slowly and carefully, to avoid burning the meat. Meantime, let 
the rest of the meat, cut in small cubes, soak in cold water. 

After the sauted meat has been added to the soup kettle, let the 
frying-pan stand in a warm place, partly filled with liquid from the 
soup kettle and thus insure melting from the pan all the browned 
material that is to give color to the soup. Saute the vegetables 
about an hour and a half before the stock is cooked and add to the 
kettle with the other seasoning. Rinse out the pan and add as 
before to the soup kettle. When cooked, strain and set aside to 
cool. If a large quantity of stock be prepared, strain into several 
dishes, holding the quantity needed for a meal, and narrow rather 
than flat, that there may be fat enough to form a covering for each. 

BOUILLON 

This is the same as standard beef broth, omitting the bone from 
the meat. A cup of canned tomato, or two fredi tomatoes £ire 
sometimes added with the vegetables. Bouillon is usually, though 
not always, clarified (see Clearing of Stock, page 176). 

C0NS0MM6 

{caiTot. 
onion. 
celery. 

3 lbs. of knuckle veal. I bay leaf. 

Marrow, if at hand. a sprigs of parsley. 

3 or 4 lbs. of fowl. I teaspoonful of sweet herbs. 

X ounce of lean ham. i tablespoonful of salt. 

3§ quarts of water. 10 peppercorns. 

Saut6 part of the beef and all of the veal, cut in inch cubes in the 
marrow, or drippings (that from the top of the stock kettle pre- 
ferred), until a delicate amber color; add a quart of water and let 
simmer about an horn: or imtil nearly evaporated, forming a glaze 
on the bottom of the soup kettle; then add the rest of tie meat, 
the bone, if desired, the ham and the water, and heat slowly to 
the boiling point; skim, add the fowl and let simmer until the fbwl 



i8o PRACTICAL COOKING AND SERVING 

is tender; remove the fowl for other use and add the seasoning with 
the vegetables saut&i without coloring; let simmer about an hour 
then strain and set aside to cool. When cold remove the fat, add 
additional seasoning, if desired, and clarify the stock. 

ENGLISH BEEF SOUP 

J pound of tender beef. i quart of standard beef broth. 

J an onion in rings. i cup of cooked carrot. 

2 stalks of celery cut transversely, i cup of cooked barley. 

1 cup of boiling water. i tablespoonful of Worcestershire 

2 tablespoonfuls of flour, sauce. 

I tablespoonful of tomato catsup. Salt and pepper. 

Cut the beef in squares and brown with the onions and celery 
in butter, marrow, or drippings; add the boiling water and braise 
vmtil the meat is tender, then add the flour, mixed with water to 
pour; let cook ten or fifteen minutes; then add the hot broth, 
barley, and carrot, with the catsup, sauce salt, and pepper. 

CHICKEN SOUP 

1 quart of standard chicken broth i cup of cream. 

(flavored with onion, celery, Salt and pepper, 
sweet herbs, etc.). Whites of two eggs. 

X pint of milk. 2 tablespoonfuls of fine, quick- 

3 yolks of eggs. cooking tapioca. 

Scald the broth, stir in the tapioca and let cook over hot water 
(double-boiler) until transparent; add the milk scalded, remove 
from the fire and stir in the beaten yolks diluted with the cream; 
let thicken without boiling, then turn into the tureen, adding salt 
and pepper; arrange on the top the whites of the eggs, beaten dry, 
with a few grains of salt, and poached, by spdonfuls, in hot water, 
or milk; or serve in bouillon cups with a spoonful of the poached 
white on the top of each cup. 

WHITE ALMOND SOUP 

2 quarts of standard veal broth. 2 ounces of almonds. 

1 tablespoonful of butter. 2 tablespoonfuls of cornstarch. 

I cup of cream. 

Cream together the butter and cornstarch and dilute with hot 
stock gradually; let boil five minutes, then stir into the rest of the 
stock; add the hot cream, more seasoning, if needed, and the 
almonds blanched and pounded fine in a mortar. 



LETTUCE SOUP i8i 

OXTAIL SOUP 

3 oxtails. 2 stalks of celery. 
J cup of drippings. Red pepper. 

\ cup of flour. I small onion. 

4 quarts of standard broth, or com- i cup of carrot. 

mon stock. i cup of turnip. 

Parsley, bay leaf. Salt. 

Worcestershire sauce. 

Separate the tails at the joints into pieces; saut€ in the drippings 
a brown color, add the flour and, when blended, the stock; let 
)il once, then simmer imtil the meat is tender, adduig the parsley, 
ly leaf, and piece of red pepper wrapped in the celery stalks. 
lute the onion cut in slices, these separated into rings, and the 
rrot and turnip, each, cut into balls, or fanciful shapes, in hot 
ippings, then add water and cook until tender. Remove the fat 
id the bouquet from the soup, thicken, if desired, with roux, or 
mstarch mixed with cold water, add the drained vegetables and 
It and Worcestershire sauce to taste. 

TOMATO SOUP 

I quart of standard beef broth or Onion juice. 

1 quart of stock made from left- Celery salt, 

overs, or water in which mutton Fine-chopped parsley. 

has been cooked. 2 tablespoonfuls of cornstarch. 

1 quart of tomatoes. Macaroni. 

2 teaspoonfuls of sugar. Salt and pepper. 

Press the tomatoes through a sieve; bring the pulp to a boiling 
lint, add the cornstarch, diluted with cold water to pour, the 
gar, onion juice, celery salt, and parsley, if used; let cook ten 
inutes and add the hot brolJi, season and serve. Garnish with 
ch pieces of cooked macaroni, or with egg balls, noodles, chicken 
lenelles, or yolks of egg poached in water just "off the boil." 

LETTUCE SOUP 

I large head of lettuce. i teaspoonful of salt, 

a tablespoonfuls of butter. } teaspoonful of pepper. 

} teaspoonful of sugar. 5 cups of broth or water, 

} teaspoonful of tarragon vinegar. Yolks of 3 eggs. 

\ cup of cream. 2 tablespoonfuls of flour. 



i82 PRACTICAL COOKING AND SERVING 

Chop the lettuce and saute in the butter with the sugar and 
vinegar; add the flour, and, when blended with the butter, the 
broth or water gradually; when the lettuce is tender, add the yolks 
beaten and diluted with the cream; let thicken without boiling. 
Serve with croutons. 

CLEAR QREEN TURTLE SOUP 

Have ready five cups of rich broth, made of beef and chicken 
or veal, flavored with celery, onion, parsley, carrot and two or three 
leaves of sweet basil, if available. The broth must be freed of all 
fat. To this add the liquid from a can of clear green turtle (the 
part of young turtles adjoining the shell) and the slightly beaten 
whites of two eggs, with the crushed shells, and the thin yellow 
rind of half a lemon. Stir constantly imtil the liquid boUs up 
vigorously, let simmer five minutes, then draw to a cooler part of 
the range to settle. Strain through a napkin wrung from hot 
water. Add the green tvurtle, cut in small cubes, and reheat with- 
out boiling, when it is ready to serve. If desired, at the last 
moment before serving add three or four tablespoonfuls of Madeira 
wine. The soup is often served without clarifying with the whites 
of eggs. 

TOMATO AND QREEN PEA SOUP (B. COOKING SCHOOL) 

I cup of green peas. 2 tablespoonfuls of butter. 

I cup of tomatoes. Salt and pepper. 

1 quart of seasoned stock. J cup of cooked peas. 

2 tablespoonfuls of cornstarch. Crisped crackers. 

Cook the peas and tomatoes until tender in water to cover; press 
through a sieve and add to the stock; when boiling dilute the corn- 
starch with cold liquid to pour and stir into the hot soup ; let simmer 
ten minutes; add the butter in bits, stirring well; add the salt, 
pepper, and cooked peas. Serve with crisped crackers. 

SOUP OFTEN MADE WITHOUT STOCK 

PUREES 

The word pur6e is used to include cream soups, bisques, and plain 
pur6es. The latter are thick soups, in which lie puree predomi- 
nates and milk or cream is not used as a rule. Plain pur&s are 



PUREE OF JERUSALEM ARTICHOKES 183 

made of legumes, chestnuts, chicken, or game. They do not call 
for a roux or other binding agent, though flour and butter cooked 
together may be used. The thickness of the soup comes from the 
representative ingredient. All these soups are very nutritious; 
consequently they should not be served at dinner as a first course, 
and be followed by other and more substantial dishes, unless the 
soup be presented for the same reason that Abigail Adams, the 
economical and thrifty wife of our second President, is said to have 
served the commeal pudding before the roast — i.e., to save the 
roast. They are appropriately served as luncheon sonps and are 
particularly good for children and old people. 

PUREE OF CHICKEN 

i cup of pork lardoons. 2} quarts of cold water. 

i cup of chopped onion. i pound of wliite bread. 

i cup of chopped carrot. Salt. Mace. 

Paisley with thyme and buy leaf. x ounce of blanched almoodE. 

1 four-pound fowl. i pint of milk. 

3 ounces of butter. 

Put the krdoons, onion, carrot, and the parsley, famished, into 
the soup kettle, with the fowl above them ; add one pmt of the water 
and let slowly reduce to a glaze, then add the rest of the water; 
let boil once, then simmer until the chicken is tender. Remove tiie 
chicken and pound the meat (without skin, fat, or bone) with the 
bread cnmib, moistening with the broth as needed. Season with 
salt and mace and press through a pur6e sieve; reheat without 
boiling, add one pint of almond rmlk, and, when ready to serve, stir 
in gradually the butter. Serve small chicken quenelles made from 
part of the breast ia the soup. To make the almond milk, pound 
the freshly blanched almonds in the mortar, adding a little milk to 
moisten, then heat with the milk and press through a napkin. 

PUREE OF JERUSALEM ARTICHOKES 

a pounds of artichokes. i teaspoonful of salt. 

2 onions. 2 quarts of standard broth, 
i cup of flour. 3 yolks of eggs. 

I teaspoonful of sugar. i cup of cream. 

2 tablespoonfuls of butter. 

Pare the artichokes and cook with the onions until tender; then 
mash and press through a sieve; add with the water in which they 



i84 PRACTICAL COOKING AND SERVING 

were cooked to the broth; dilute the flour, sugar, and salt with a 
little cold broth and stir into the hot soup and let simmer twenty 
minutes. When ready to serve, add the butter in little bits, then 
the beaten yolks diluted with the cream. Do not let the soup boil 
after the addition of the eggs. 

SPLIT PEA, LENTIL, OR BEAN PUREE 

(dried legumes) 

I pint of dried legumes. 3 tablespoonfuls of flour, 

t onion. Salt and pepper. 

J head of celery. i can of strained tomatoes, or 

A ham bone if at hand. i cup of cream if desired. 

3 tablespoonfuls of butter. 

Soak the legumes over night in cold water; wash, drain, and 
simmer in three pints of water, stirring often with a wooden spoon 
and adding more water as evaporation necessitates. If a ham bone 
be used, put on to cook at the same time as the legumes. When 
the vegetables are becoming tender, saut6 the onion and celery, cut 
fine, in a little drippings and add to the soup; when all are tender, 
press through a puree sieve, reheat and stir in the butter and flour 
creamed together, or if cream or tomato be used, make into a sauce 
with the liquid and then add to the soup. Serve hot with croutons 
The flour may be omitted, if the settling of the pulp be thought 
unobjectionable. 

POTAQE PARMENTIER (POTATO PUR6E) 

I dozen potatoes. 3 cloves. 

3 onions. 2 quarts of veal broth. 
1 head of celery. Salt. Parsley. 
White part of a leeks. 3 yolks of eggs. 

4 ounces of butter f cup of cream. 

(i cup). 2 ounces of butter. 

Fine-chopped chervil. 

Saut6 the potatoes, pared and sliced, with the onions, celery and 
leeks, also sliced, in the four oimces of butter tea minutes; add the 
cloves, broth salt, and parsley and cook until the potatoes are 
tender; then press through a fine sieve. Return to the fire, add 
more broth, if too thick, and let simmer twenty minutes, skimming 
as needed. Jnst befr"-e '^^dng add the beaten yolks, diluted with 



FORMULA FOR CREAM SOUPS 185 

! cream, and the two ounces of butter in little bits. Sprinkle 
er the soup in the tureen a little fine-chopped chervil. Serve 
th croutons. 

BAKED BEAN AND TOMATO PURINE 

i bay leaf. i tablespoonful of butter. 

i slices of onion. ^ tablespoonful of flour. 

2 Stalks of celery. Croutons or buttered crackers 

I sprig of parsley. browned. 

I pint of Boston baked beans. i quart of water or light stock. 

I cup of thick tomato pur£e. Salt and paprika. 

Saut6 the onion, parsley, fine-cut celery and bay leaf in two 
jlespoonfuls of drippings; add the baked beans and the water, or 
)ck (made from left-overs) and let simmer half an hour, then pass 
rough the sieve and reheat. Melt the butter, in this cook the 
ur, add the tomato pur6e and, when boiling, season and stir into 
i bean puree. Serve with croutons, or browned crackers. 

CHESTNUT PUR^E (SOUP) 

Boil sixty blanched chestnuts in a quart of water, or light stock, 
in press while hot through a fine pur& sieve; add two quarts of 
ath, stir until the boiling point is reached, then simmer an hour; 
im and pour the soup into a tureen. Serve with croutons of 
ed bread. 

CREAM SOUPS 

FORMULA FOR CREAM SOUPS 

a cups of pur€e and liquid (cauliflower, asparagus, spinach, peas, etc.) 
["i cup of flour. 

I i cup of butter. 
2 cups of white sauce. < 2 cups of milk or part white stock. 

I I teaspoonful of salt. 
[i teaspoonful of pepper. 

ij an onion. 
I sprig of parsley. 
I stalk of celery, or tablespoonful of cdeiy leed. 
I sprig of mint (with peas). 

Additional nutriment when desired. -| , , ^ 

(. } cup of creaa. 

Milk and white stock to make of desired consistency. 

Salt and pepper as required. 



i86 PRACTICAL COOKING AND SERVING 

Of these soups, cream and bisque consist in the main of a simpla 
combination of a thin white sauce with vegetable, fish, or meat pulp 
thinned to the proper consistency by the addition of niilk, cream, or 
white stock. Almost any vegetable, fish, chicken, or game may be 
used in these soups; the vegetables, cut in pieces when it is neces- 
sary, with such as are used for flavoring, may be sauted, either with 
or without browning, in butter and drippings and then cooked in 
water until tender; or the preliminary sauteing may be dispensed 
with. When tender, press through a purfe sieve, using a wooden 
spoon or pestle. Moisten now and then with the liquid in which 
the vegetable was cooked, to facilitate the operation; dilute the 
meat or fish, cooked and pounded fine, with liquid and press through 
a pur6e sieve. If well-flavored stock be not at hand and nulk or 
water is to be used, cook a part of an onion, a stalk of celery, or a 
sprig of parsley with the vegetables. A sprig of naint is often 
cooked with the peas that are to be used for a cream of pea soup 
and a slice of onion, a stalk of celery or a handful of mushroom 
stalks and peelings, with the tomatoes for a tomato soup. 

A handful of spinach, boiled with the lettuce, peas, or asparagus 
to be used in these soups, will help give the green tint desirable in a 
soup made of green vegetables. 

The vegetable pulp and the liquid do not unite, or form a "liai- 
son," as the French cooks say, but the pulp settles to the bottom 
of the dish. To remedy this and give the soup a smooth, velvety 
consistency, a starchy material, as tapioca, cornstarch, or flour is 
added. Four tablespoonfuls of flour, or half that quantity of 
cornstarch or arrowroot for each quart of soup will suffice, especially 
if the yolks of the eggs are also used. Since the cream soups are in 
reality a combination of white sauce and fish, meat, or vegetable 
pulp, the blending ingredient may be added in either of the three 
ways in which such material is added to a sauce (see Sauces, page 
209), ist, by cooking the flour and butter or drippings to a roux and 
then diluting with the cold liquid. 

2nd. Cream the butter and flour together, dilute with a little of 
the hot liquid and, when smooth, stir into the hot liquid. 

3d. Mix the flour with a little of the cold liquid and stir into 
the hot liquid. In the two latter methods, the soup needs simmer 
ten minutes after the starchy material is added. 

If milk or cream be added to the pulp of some vegetables, as 
asparagus, and the mixture be again heated to the boiling point, the 
soup is liable to assume a curdled appearance; hence, it is safer to 
add the hot milk or cream just before the soup is sent to the tabl«. 



CREAM SOUPS 187 

"Whea. stock is used for these soups, nothing is gained by cooking 
the vegetables in the stock; but by so doing much is lost in volume 
and flavor. Cook the vegetables in water, and add the stock 
afterward. 

CREAM OF SORREL SOUP 

I cup of sorrel. J teaspoonful of pepper. 

i cup of water. 2 cups of standard bioth. 

i cup of butter. (Veal and chicken together or one 

J an onion. alone.) 

I cup of flour. ij cups of cream or milk. 

I teaspoonful of sugar. Yolks of two eggs. 

I teaspoonful of salt. § cup of cream. 

Boil the sorrel in the water ten minutes, drain and chop fine. 
Cook the onion, sliced, in the butter five minutes without browning; 
add the flour and, when smooth, the sorrel, sugar, salt, and pepper, 
when well mixed, add the stock; let boil once, then add the cream, 
scalded, and the yolks beaten and diluted with the half cup of 
cream. 

CREAM OF CORN SOUP 

Score each row of kernels with a sharp knife and press out the 
pulp; now cook the ears in a little cold water, and add this water, 
well reduced, to the pulp; let simmer ten minutes, then pass 
through the sieve into the sauce; add milk, or stock, salt, and 
pepper. When fresh com is not at hand, canned corn or, better 
still, komlet may be used. The proportions are: 

I pint of com pulp. i slice of onion. 

I quart oi white sauce. Salt and pepper. 

CREAM OF MUSHROOM SOUP 

I cup of dried Italian or Salt and pepper. 

I pint of fresh mushrooms. Milk, cream or white stock. 

J an onion. Yolks of two eggs, if desired. 

I pint of white sauce. 

Saut6 the fresh mushrooms with the onion, sliced, in a little 
butter without browning them. Then pound in a mortar, pass 
through the purfe sieve, and proceed as usual. If dried mush- 
rooms be used, let soak in cold water, add the onion, and let 
simmer imtil tender. 



i88 PRACTICAL COOKING AND SERVING 

CREAM OF LIMA BEANS AND ONIONS 

Boil together one pint of lima beans — if dry breans be used they 
need be soaked over night — two onions, and two sprigs of parsley. 
To each pint of pulp and liquid allow a pint of white sauce and 
proceed as usual. A full pint of milk, or white stock, will also be 
required. 

OYSTER SOUP 

I quart of oysters. i an onion. 

I quart of milk. 2 sprigs of parsley. 

3 tablespoonfuls of butter. i teaspoonful of pepper. 

i cup of flour. Salt as needed. 

} cup of celery leaves and stalks. 

Pour a cup of cold water over the oysters and look them over 
carefully, to remove any bits of shell. Strain the liquor through a 
cheesecloth, then boil and skim; add to this the oysters, and let 
^mmer until they look plump and the edges curl; then stir them 
into the sauce made by cooking the flour and the butter creamed 
together in the milk scalded with the onion, celery, and parsley, 
before adding the thickening to the milk. Part cream gives a 
much more delicious soup. If preferred, the oysters may be 
chopped, after parboiling, and pressed through a sieve. 

BISQUES 

Bisque is a soup of ancient origin, to which there are many 
allusions in old literary works. The old recipes for bisque begin 
with "Wash half a hundred crayfish"; for, in its first estate, the 
basis of a bisque was always crayfish, a small fresh-water crustacean 
resembling the lobster. At the present time we have come to use 
the word in a more general sense, applying it to a class of purees 
generally made of salt-water moUusks, or crustaceans, to which 
milk or cream is added, sometimes white stock, also tender bits of 
the fish cooked for the purfe. We also speak of "mock bisque 
soup," a soup having the general characteristics — particularly as 
regards color and consistency — of the original bisque, but want- 
ing in anything corresponding to the tender bits of crayfish that are 
so conspicuous in the original soup. We might, also, regardless 
of color, etc., have a bisque of mushrooms. Bisques were formerly 
thickened with boiled rice which was pounded with the flesh to a 
pulp and sifted into the hot milk. 



BISQUES 180 

BISQUE OF LOBSTER 

t pound lobster. i quart of milk. 

i cup of butter. } cup of flour. 

I pint of light stock or water (liquor in which a fowl has been cooked). 

Cut the tender portions of the claws into small cubes and put 
them into the soup tureen with the bits of meat from the body bones 
and the green liver. Simmer the body bones and tough meat of 
the lobster in the stock or water half an hour. Chop or pound the 
meat from the tail and scald in the milk. Cream together the 
butter, seasoning, flour and sifted coral and cook in the hot milk 
ten minutes, stirring constantly until the milk thickens; pass 
through the pur€e sieve, strain into this the water, or stock in which 
the bones were sinmiered, reheat and pour into the tureen. 

BISQUE OF OYSTER SOUP 

I quart of oysters. i an onion. 

I teaspoonful of curry powder. i teaspoonfulof salt. 

i teaspoonful of paprika. 3 tablespoonfuls of cornstarch. 

Hot milk or cream as desired. 3 tablespoonfuls of butter. 

Quickly heat the oysters to the boiling point in their own liquor, 
drain and strain the liquor; saut6 in the butter without browning 
the onion cut fine, add the seasoning (the curry may be omitted) 
and the cornstarch; when frothy dilute with the oyster liquor and 
let simmer ten minutes, then keep hot over hot water; poimd the 
oysters, then pass them through the pur6e sieve, and reheat in the 
sauce. When ready to serve, dilute to the consistency desured with 
hot milk or cream and pass through a sieve. Serve in each plate 
four or five. 

OYSTER FORCEMEAT BALLS 

} cup of cooked oysters. i cup of fresh mushrooms. 

J cup of bread crumbs. Yolk of egg. 

Peel the mushrooms, saut6 five minutes in a little butter, chop 
fine, add to the oyster pur&, or oysters, parboiled and chopped, 
with the sifted bread crumbs, salt and pepper and uncooked yolk 
of egg to bind the whole; roll into small balls, put on a buttered 
baking-sheet and cook five or six minutes in a hot oven, or poach in 
hot wab^ 



iQo PRACTICAL COOKING AND SERVING 

MOCK BISQUE SOUP 

I can or quart of tomatoes. i cup of flour. 

I tablespoonful of sugar. i quart of milk. 

J cup of butter. Salt and pepper. 
i teaspoonful of soda, if desired. 

Cook the tomatoes and sugar fifteen minutes; add the soda, if 
the tomatoes are very ripe, or have been long canned, otherwise 
omit, strain and reheat. Make a white sauce of the other in- 
gredients; add the tomato and serve at once with croutons. 

Okra is cultivated extensively in the South and West for its 
young pods, which are very mucilaginous. These are used prin- 
cipally in soups, but they are sometimes boiled and dressed like 
asparagus. In the South, the pods of some varieties grow from four 
to eight inches in length. The dwarf varieties, having shorter pods, 
are best suited to Northern gardens. The pods must be gathered 
when they are young and tender. They may be preserved, for 
winter use, by drying or canning; they are also "piit down" in salt, 
in the same manner as cucumbers. In the South, a soup or stew, 
made of chicken, oysters, etc., and thickened with these mucilagi- 
nous pods, is called "gumbo," a word thought to be of negro origin. 
Canned okra retails for about fifteen cents per can, and tiie gumbo 
powder for thirty cents per bottle. The powder is add^ just 
before serving the soup. 

aUMBO SOUP (FROM FRESH OKRA PODS) 

3 tablespoonfuls of lard. i small pod of red pepper. 

3 or 4 ounces of ham. J bay leaf. 

I fowl (about 4 pounds). 2 sprigs of thyme. 

I quart of green okra pods. Boiled rice. 

t onion sliced. Salt. 

i cup of flotir. 3 or 4 tomatoes. 

Disjoint the fowl, cut the ham in pieces and saut£ them in the 
hot lard to a golden brown: remove the chicken to a stewpan 
(iron must not be used with okra) and saut6 the onion and the okra 
pods cut in pieces; then add the flour and, when well blended with 
the fat, of which more may be needed, add gradually a quart of 
water; when boiling add to the chicken with another quart of water, 
the tomatoes, skins removed, the red pepper, bay leaf, thyme, and 
salt; let simmer, covered, very slowly until the fowl is cooked, 
adding more water if needed, also salt. In serving add a spoonful 



FISH CHOWDER 19, 

of boiled rice to eadi plate. Left-over fowl may be used for this 
soup. 

BRUNSWICK STEW (VIRGINIA) 

I gallon of hot water. 4 onions. 

1 large chicken or 8 ears of corn 

2 small chickens. i cup of butter. 

ij pints of tomato. i cup of bread crumbs. 

2 slices of fat bacon. Salt and pepper. 

Into a saucepan, or soup kettle, put the onions chopped fine, the 
tomatoes, skin removed, cut into small pieces the bacon, which is 
to be removed when it has seasoned the stew, and the fowl, dis- 
jointed. 

Pour over the water and let simmer until the fowl is tender. 
Take out the fowl, discard the bones, skin, and gristle, ch<q) fine 
and return to the kettle with the com. To prepare tihe corn, 
cut each row of kernels down through the centre and press out all 
the pulp. Cook twenty minutes longer. Add the butter and 
bread crumbs with salt and pepper. This recipe should make 
four quarts. Water may be added to make up what is lost by 
evaporation. 

CHOWDERS 

Chowders belong to a class of soups or perhaps stews often 
designated "hodgepodge." They are supposed to have been first 
made by the fisher-folk of Brittany. Each brought his offering 
to the chaudUre, or caldron, in which was cooked Qie fish, biscuits 
and savory, condiments, and received in retiurn his share, when the 
dish was completed. 

The early colonists in this country had learned from the French 
how to make the dish, and a knowledge of the savory chowders 
made in those early days of the coimtry, both in Newf oimdland and 
on the coast farther south, is a matter of history. The basis of a 
good chowder is a fish stock of more or less richness. 

FISH CHOWDER (BOSTON STYLE) 

3 to 4 pounds of fish. 3 cups of milk. 
\ pound of salt pork (scant). \ cup of butter. 
I small onion. Pepper. 

I quart of sliced potatoes. 10 or 12 hard water'Crackers. 

I tablespoonful of salt. \ cup of flour, if desired. 



i$3 PRACTICAL COOKING AND SERVING 

The fish needs be very fresh; cod, haddock, or lake fish may be 
used. Skin the fish and remove the flesh in two long fillets; cut 
these in two-inch pieces and set aside; cover the head, body bones 
and trimmings with cold water, let come slowly to the boiling point, 
then simmer half an hour. Cut the pork into bits and cook out 
the fat slowly, to avoid discoloring; in this saut6 the sliced onion 
without browning, add fat and onion to the saucepan in which the 
head is simmering and strain the whole over the fish. Add the 
potatoes, that have been parboiled five minutes and drained, the 
salt, and pepper, and simmer until the potatoes are tender, about ten 
minutes, then add the milk scalded, the crackers split and spread 
with butter, and the rest of the butter. Serve in soup plates from 
the tureen. If a thicker consistency be desired, cream together 
the flour and an equal measure of butter and cook fifteen minutes 
in the scalded milk, then add to the other ingredients. 

FISH CHOWDER, CONEY ISLAND STYLE 

Use three or four cups of strained tomatoes in the place of the 
milk and two thirds cup of cracker crumbs instead of the split 
crackers. Season with a teaspoonf ul of mixed thyme and summer 
savory, six cloves, half a bay leaf, and a sprig of parsley. 

FISH CHOWDER, ENGLISH STYLE 

Use a generous cup of rather coarse, soft bread crumbs instead 
of the crackers, and sprinkle each plate of chowder before passing 
with a tablespoonful of small, irregular-shaped croutons. 

CLAM CHOWDER 

Substitute a solid quart of clams for the fish, the other in- 
gredients being the same as for fish chowder. Add a cup of cold 
water to the dams, pick over carefully, to remove bits of shell, 
strain the water and clam liquor through two folds of cheesecloth 
and in it scald the clams; strain out the clams and keep hot. Add 
the flour to the fat and onion, cook until frothy, then gradually 
add the clam liquor and, when the mixture boils, strain it over the 
parboiled potatoes, and cook until the potatoes are tender, adding 
no more water than is necessary. When r^ady to serve add the 
scalded milk (part cream is better), the clams, and the crackers. 



WINE OF SAGO SOUP igj 

Many kinds of crackers need be soaked in cold milk before they are 
idded to the chowder. 
Substitute oysters for dams for oyster chowder, 

CORN CHOWDER 

I quart of fresh c»m pulp or i cup, each, of cream and milk. 

I can of komlet or canned com. i sliced onion. 

I quart of sliced potatoes. 2 tablespooufuls of butter. 

I pound of fat salt pork. 6 crackers. 

i tablespoonful of salt or more. Pepper. 

Cook the sliced onion in the fat from the pork, add two cups oi 
ater and let simmer while the potatoes are parboiling; then drain 
the potatoes and strain over them the water from the onions; add 
the com and simmer until the potatoes are tender, then add the 
scalded cream, the butter and the seasoning, put the crackers, 
split and soaked in cold milk, in the tureen and pour over the 
chowder. 

SOUR. CHERRY SOUP (NORTH GERMANY) 

Stone a cup of sour cherries and reserve to serve in the soup. 
Stew the juice with a pint of cherries in a quart of water and press 
through a fine sieve. Heat to the boiling point and thicken with a 
teaspoonf til of cornstarch, diluted with water to pour, or mixed with 
one fourth a cup of sugar; let cook fifteen minutes. Meanwhile, 
pound the dierry stones and heat them with a cup of red wine just 
to the boiling point and strain the liquid into the soup; add the 
stoned cherries and serve with crackers or toast, sprinkled, if de- 
sired, with sugar. The soup may be served cold with sweet 
crackers soaked slightly on the edges with wine, then sprinkled with 
sugar. Macaroons and plain sweet crackers are also served. Fruit 
soups take the place of fruit as a first course at a luncheon or tea 
and may be made of almost any variety of fruit. The thickening 
is often omitted. 

WINE OF SAQO SOUP 

Dilute the desired amount of claret with an equal amount of cold 
water and sweeten to taste. Serve in cups, adding to each cup a 
few grains of sago, cooked in water and cooled, and two or three 
pieces of pineapple cut in fanciful shape with a French cutter. 
The claret may be diluted with cold consomm6 (made from lean 



194 PRACTICAL COOKING AND SERVING 

meat without bones, and cooked at a low temperature, so that it 
may not jelly), but the soup will not be quite as clear as when 
water is used. This soup is appropriate as an appetizer, at a 
luncheon, "tea," or spread, where cold service is desired. 

GARNISHES FOR SOUPS 

In serving a soup with a garnish, have the soup in the tureen, and 
the garnish, covered with a few spoonfuls of soup to keep it moist, 
in a vegetable dish. Then when a ladle of soup — a cup of soup is 
allotted to each individual — ^ has been placed in a soup plate, add 
to it about a tablespoonful of garnish. Serve about a dozen peas, 
or other small article, and half a dozen quenelles, pieces of custard, 
or timbale cut with French cutter; or if, as is sometimes the case, 
timbales cut in three even slices are to be served, add to the small 
garnish two slices of timbale^ 

WHITE CUSTARD FOR CONSOMME 

Add a tablespoonful of cream or mUk to each whit© of ^g and 
beat tmtil well blended. Season with salt, white pepper, and a 
little celery salt. Strain into a buttered mould and let poach, 
standing on a trivet, until the centre is firm. When cold unmould, 
cut in tida slices and stamp out in fanciful figures. The addition 
of the liquid, particularly cream, gives a very tender garnish. 

YOLKS FOR MOCK TURTLE, CONSOMME, ETC 

Drop the yolks into salted water, just below the boiling point, 
and let them lie imtil they are cooked throughout. Serve one in 
each plate of soup. 

ROYALE CUSTARD FOR CONSOMME, A LA ROYALE 

3 yolks. I t«aepoonful of mooe. 

I whole egg. A few grains of paprika. 

i teaspoonful of salt. § cup of cream or confloojHil. 

Beat the eggs iintil white and yolks are well mixed; add the 
seasoning and liquid and strain into a buttered mould of such size 
as to make the custard nearly half an indi thick. Poach in hot 
water in the oven, or on the top of the stove, until firm. When 
cold unmould and cut in squares, diamonds, or other shapes with 
a Ftench cutter. 



CHESTNUT TIMBALE FOR CONSOMME 195 

EGG BALLS 

3 yolks of hatd-boUed ^gs. A few grains of salt and pepper. 

i teaspoonf ul of melted butter. The tincooked yolk of an egg. 

Press the cooked yolks through a sieve; add the butter, salt and 
pepper, and enough of the raw yolk to make the mixture of a con- 
sistency to handle. Shape in small balls, roll in white of egg and 
then in flour, and saute in butter, or poach in hot water. Serve 
with brown soup, consomme, or mock turtle soup. 

NOODLES 

To three eggs, slightly beaten, add a few grains of salt and enough 
flour to make a stiff dough; knead fifteen or twenty minutes, when 
it wfll be elastic; roll into a sheet as thin as paper; (a piece of duck, 
or sail-cloth is the best surface upon which to roll the paste). Let 
stand covered with a cloth about half an hour, then with a sharp 
knife cut as desired into threads or quarter-inch ribbons: or cut 
with a tube into rounds half an inch in diameter, or with French 
cutter into fanciful shapes. Cook the threads, ribbons, or fanci- 
ful shapes, in boiling salted water fifteen minutes, then add to the 
hot soup. Fry the rounds in pretty hot fat; they will puff in cook- 
ing. To cut the threads and ribbons, roll the paste loosely like 
a jelly-roll, then cut off in pieces the width desired. To cut the 
rounds, etc., fold the paste so as to make two or more thicknesses; 
separate the pieces and let dry an hour before cooking. Serve 
Ml brown soup, or in consomme, or as a vegetable. 

TAPIOCA, SPAGHETTI, MACARONI, ETC. 

Tapioca, spaghetti, alphabet paste, macaroni, cut into rings, or 
broken in two-inch lengths, and vegetables, cut in fancy shapes, 
are all used for garnishes. In all cases these should be cooked in 
boiling salted water until tender, then drained and added to the 
soup. Macaroni is cut into rings after it is cooked, the others are 
cut into shapes either before or after cooking; all should be blanched 
before cooking. If quick cooking tapioca be used, it may be cooked 
in the soup. Serve in brown or white soup — that is, broths, or 
consommi. 

CHESTNUT TIMBALB FOR CONSOMME 

i cup of chestnut purge. The yolk of six eggs. 

i cup of deam. A few grains of mace and salt. 



196 PRACTICAL COOKING AND SERVING 

Beat the yolks slightly and add to the other ingredients; poach 
until firm in a buttered naould. When cold unmould and cut in 
small pieces. 

CHICKEN CUSTARD FOR CONSOMME 

(green and red) 
i cup of cooked chicken. 3 tablespoonfuls of tomato pur€e. 

2 eggs. Salt and paprika. 

Pound the chicken in a mortar and with pestle press through the 
puree sieve; add the seasoning, beaten eggs and tomato and poach 
unto firm in a buttered mould. When cold unmould and cut as 
desired. Serve accompanied with half a cup of peas. 

TOMATO, CHICKEN, SHRIMP, ONION, GREEN PEA AND 
ASPARAGUS, TIMBALES 

(served in consomme) 

i cup of purge as desired. 2 tablespoonfuls of cream or con- 

Yolks of four eggs. somm£. 

I whole egg. Salt and pepper. 

The cooked material is to be potmded in a mortar, when needed, 
then passed through a pur6e sieve, mixed with the other ingredients 
and poached and cut in the usual manner. 

VEGETABLES 

(served in consomme and also in certain broths, purees and 

CREAM soups) 

Flowerets of cauliflower, asparagus, peas, string beans cut in 
diamond shapes, or julienne style (strips two inches by one fourth 
an inch), carrots cut in figures, in strips, or in balls — these should 
be blanched and cooked before adding liiem to the soup. Cucum- 
ber pulp cut in shape of peas, diamonds, etc., cooked until tender 
in consomm^, are served with flageolets. 

PEARL BARLEY 

(served in broths, consomme, etc.) 

Cook three hours or longer, until tender, in boiling water, then 
drain and add to the soup. 



QUENELLES FOR CONSOMME J97 

CHICKEN LIVER BALLS 

(served in fusee of chicken or consomme) 

4 ounces of chicken livers. | teaspoonful of fine-chopped paisley 

The yolks of four eggs. or other sweet herbs. 

Salt and pepper. 

Saute the livers ten minutes in melted butter, then pound and 
press through a sieve; add the seasoning and the yolks, form into 
small balls half an inch in diameter, egg-and-bread-crumb and 
sauti in clarified butter, or fry in deep fat; drain on soft paper. 

PATE A CHOUX 

(served in broth or consomme) 

3 tablespoonfuls of butter. A few grains of salt. 
i cup of broth or consomme. | cup of flour. 

I large egg. 

Melt the butter in the broth; let boil and stir in the flour and salt; 
when the mixture separates from the pan (in stirring) remove from 
the fire and add the egg. Beat in thoroughly, then drop in round 
bits from a teaspoon into hot fat and fry to a delicate brown; drain 
and add to the soup when passed. They soften very quickly. Two 
tablespoonfuls of Parmesan cheese may be added before the egg, 
if desired. 

CELERY AND LETTUCE 

(rOR CONSOMME WITH TIMBALES OR ALONE, IN CREAM SOUPS, 
CHICKEN PUREE, ETC.) 

Cut half a cup of the white leaves of celery in small squares, or 
lettuce in fine shreds; blanch, then cook in broth or water until 
tender; drain and add to the soup. Celery stalks may be cut in 
julienne shreds, or in quarter-inch slices. 

QUENELLES FOR CONSOMME 

4 ounces of panada (i cup). i egg. 

8 ounces of uncooked chicken, veal, i tablespoonful of cream or white 

game pulp (i cup). sauce. 

a tablespoonfuls of butter. Salt and pepper. 

For the panada cook the crumb of bread with milk, stirring con- 
stantly until it is smooth and forms a ball. Scrape the pulp from 



igS PRACTICAL COOKING AND SERVING 

the fibre of the meat, weigh or measure, add the panada and pound 
in the mortar, moistening with the butter, egg, and sauce, or cream, 
then pass through a sieve. Poach in small buttered moulds, or 
shape in after dinner coffee spoons and poach directly in the water, 
or shape with forcing bag and tube upon a buttered frying-pan; 
cover with hot water, and let stand until firm; drain carefully before 
adding to the soup. These are not as delicate quenelles as may be 
made when more cream is used, but they are easily made. For 
others, see Quenelle and Cream Forcemeat imder Entr&s. 

RECIPE FOR FLOUR PANADA 

I tablespoonful of butter. | cup of stock or water. 

I cup of flour. 

Prepare as pate a choux. 

GARNISHES FOR CREAM SOUPS 

Besides the garnishes previously given for cream soups one or 
two others might be noted. At hotels and restaurants, these soups 
are often garnished with croutons or bits of bread browned in 
butter. At the home table, quite as often, the croutons are passed 
with the soup; this gives an opportunity for cutting them in larger 
sizes. An attractive crouton, and one that can be eaten from the 
fingers, is cut three or four inches in length, and about three eighths 
of an inch in width and thickness. Crackers split, the split side 
buttered and browned delicately in the oven, are also served with 
these soups. When croutons are served as a garnish, a spoonful 
should be sprinkled over the top of the soup after it is put into the 
individual plate, as their crispness is lost if they be allowed to 
remain long in the soup. 

PUFF-PASTE CROUTONS 

(for puree or chicken, or game) 

Cut trimmings of puff-paste into pieces half an inch square and 
bak* « delicate brown. Serve separately. 



CHAPTER VII 
Sauces 

"On devient cuisinier, on devient rotisseur, on nait saucier." 

— Bkuxat-Savasin. 

This epigram of a famous French epicure, and our one-time 
fioston orchestra player, translated into English means: cooking 
and roasting can be taught, but it takes a genius to make a sauce. 
It is apt and to the point .... Savarin in his " Meditations on 
Transcendent Gastronomy " wrote nothing more true. There is an 
indefinable daintiness and delicacy in the flavor and smoothness 
of a sauce when it is properly made, that only one endowed with 
fine sensibilities of taste can justly appreciate, and only such an 
one, save by some fortuitous accident, can hope to prepare a per- 
fect sauce. Entrust the roasting of a carefully selected joint or 
fowl to an ordinary cook and, if she but understand and apply the 
simplest rules of cookery, your confidence will not have been mis- 
placed and the most epicurean taste will be satisfied. But it is 
quite another matter when it comes to the preparation of the sauce 
for the entree. 

The saucier must of necessity be dextrous in extracting and 
retaining volatile flavors; she must be able to select those that will 
blend, one with the other, and produce a harmony of savors adapted 
to the particvdar dish for which it is designed, and this adaptation 
of sauce to plat consists not only in the harmony, but often in the 
contrast of savors. Moreover, in the proper adaptation of a sauce, 
too strong flavors are to be moderated, weak but agreeable ones are 
to be brought out and accentuated, and dry, plain dishes are to be 
made moist and enriched. A perfect sauce is a promoter of 
digestion and an aid to nutrition ; when a contrary effect is produced 
something is wrong with the sauce. 

One of the nice points, in making a sauce, is that of the tempera- 
ture of the liquid that is added to the roux. A sauce of perfect 
flavor cannot be made by adding a hot liquid to the hot roux. A 
cold liquid may be added at once, or, if the roux be cooled, a warm 

199 



200 PRACTICAL COOKING AND SERVING 

liquid may be used. In all cases it is safer to add the liquid gradu^ 
ally and vnth continuous stirring; an expert can add all the cold 
liquid at once. Then, too, entirely di6Eerent results are secured 
by the manner in which the flavor of vegetables and the kitchen 
bouquet are added to the sauce. A higher and more pronounced, 
to some more agreeable, flavor is brought out when these are 
cooked in the butter that is to be used in the roux, than when they 
are merely scalded in the liquid of the sauce. 

In menus we often see the dish Roast Beef au Jus. This French 
appellation is an inheritance from Roman times; jus was their 
word for sauce, but its meaning to-day is limited to the juice flow- 
ing from the roast or grill when it is cut. It corresponds to the 
English word gravy — platter gravy. The addition of hot water 
to beef gi-avy or jus gives bouillon. 

That the English formerly knew so little of sauces (compounds 
of juices, roux, mirepoix, etc.) save that of melted butter, was 
occasioneid, perhaps, by the fact that they did not feel the need of 
them. The essence extracted from joints of well-fed beef, mutton 
and game was all sufficient. (Bread sauce is, however, an English 
production.) 

The French, lacking rich, juicy provisions, were, in a measure, 
compelled to increase the number of their sauces and bring to a 
higher degree of perfection those that had been received as an 
inheritance. When one considers at random the six or seven him- 
dred sauces described in French books of cookery and reads of 
glaze, mirepoix, blond and brown roux, the subject seems quite 
intricate ; but this is not the case. All sauces (as distinguished from 
gravies) are made consistent or given body by the addition of a 
thickening, or bmding agent, or in French a liaison. Making this 
thickening the basis of division, we may consider. 



I. Sauces thickened by roux. < 



(White 
Brown 



(Hot. 
a. Sauces thickened by egg emulsion < 

(Cold. 
3. Independent sauces, 01 sauces belonging to no general 
class; marinades, etc. 

Gouff 6 reduces the matter of sauces thickened with roux to lowest 
terms, when he refers to four fimdamental sauces from which a& 
others are made — viz: 



SAUCES 30X 

r. Eqognole. (Brown) 

a. Veloute. (White) 

3. Allemande. (Yellow, velout£ and egg.) 

4. Bechamel. (White, veloutfi and cream.) 

In noting Gouffe's fundamental sauces we see that Allemande 
and Bechamel have velout6 as their basis, so that in reality the 
subject of sauces, when it is reduced to its "lowest terms," would 
seem to centre round but two: Espagnole and velout6, or casting 
aside all apparent superfluities of flavoring, simmering, and skim- 
ming, to the simple economical and easily made brown and white 
sauces most generally used in this country in family cookery. 
With these simple sauces as a foundation all the different varieties 
of French sauces may be made, and these may be considered first 
under the head of 

I. SAUCES THICKENED WITH ROUX 

SIMPLE SAUCES 

All simple sauces are produced from roux, white, or blond, or 
brown, salt, and pepper, and liquid, either cream, milk, water or 
stock. 

ROUX FOR SAUCES 

Roux, used to give body to sauce, is made with equal weights of 
flour and butter, or with half the weight of butter in flour cooked 
together. By measure, it is half a tup, each, of butter and flour to 
a quart of liquid; two level tablespoonf uls, each, of butter and flour 
to one cup of liquid. For a white sauce, melt the butter in a small, 
smooth and perfectly dean saucepan; when it bubbles, add the 
flour with salt and pepper and cook and stir until the mixture takes 
on a yellow appearance, from three to five minutes. When a 
brown sauce is desired, use clarified butter, let cook until it begins 
to brown, add the flour, continue the cooking with constant stir- 
ring upon the top of the range — or it may be done with occa- 
sional stirring by setting the saucepan in the oven — until the 
mixture has acquired a russet brown or reddish color; this is roux 
proper, a white roux being one of the contradictions in cookery. 
When this has been done, let the roux cool by drawing it to a 
cooler place on the range, add the liquid gradually and stir con* 
staotly. When all of the liquid has been added bring the 



302 PRACTICAL COOKING AND SERVING 

sauce to boil vigorously, then remove to a cooler place and let 
simmer five minutes. Unless it be time to serve, let stand in 
hot water, covering it meanwhile to avoid the formation of film 
on the surface. If, after standing, the butter separates from the 
sauce giving an oily appearance, add a tablespoonful of cold 
liquid and stir constantly, until the mixture boils again. If a 
sauce be thicker than desired, add more liquid; if too thin, make a 
roux, let cool, and gradually add the sauce to it. 

WHITE SAUCE 

3 tablespoonfuls of butter (i ounce) i cup of milk or white stock. 
2 tableepoonfuls of flour d ounce) I a teaspoonful of salt. 
i teaspoonful of white pepper. 

CREAM SAUCE 

Use cream instead of milk and from one to two tablespoonfuls of 
flour, according to the thickness of the cream; otho'wise, the same 
as white sauce. 

THICK WHITE SAUCE 

(for croouettes and stwtt,ab mktokes) 

Three tablespoonfuls of butter, one third a cup of flour, one cup 
of milk, or white stock, or cream and white stock combined. Use 
the same quantity of condiments and prepare as white sauce. 

VELOUTE SAUCE 

Same as white sauce, with white stock, preferably chicken 
flavored with onion, celery, carrot, and a bouquet, as the liquid. 

ALLEMANDE SAUCE 

To a pint oi veloutd sauce add one fourth a cup of musbxooxa 
liquor, reduced by simmering to about a tablespoonful, mushrooms 
cut in halves, or chopped U desired, and the yolks of two eggs, 
beaten and mixed with one tablespoonful of creamed butter. 
Before adding the yolks and butter, remove the saucepan from 
the fiire, let cool a moment or two, then add a little of the sauce 
to the eggs; mix thoroughly, add more sauce, mix and return to 
the saucepan and stir over the fire a few moments without boiling. 



ASPARAGUS SAtJCE 203 

BECHAMEL 

Make a veloute sauce, using equal quantities of chicken stock 
id cream as the liquid. If the chicken stock has not been flavored 
th vegetables, etc., fry a generous tablespoonful of vegetables, 
rrot, onion, parsley, etc., in the butter, before adding the flour, 
I not, however, allow them to color; strain before serving. 

YELLOW BECHAMEL 

To a pint of sauce add, as in AUemande sauce, from two to four 
Iks of eggs, diluted with a tablespoonful of cream to each yolk. 

CHEESE SAUCE 

or baked or boiled fish, or chicken, boiled cauliflower, 
macaroni, or rice with or without oysters, or by the 
omission of part of the cream a filling for cheese 
patties) 

Let half a cup of Bechamel sauce, three fovu-ths cup of cream, 
dash of paprika and one fourth pound of Gruyere or Cheddar 
eese, cut into thin shavings, stand over hot water, until the cheese 
melted; stir until smooth and serve at once. A Welsh rarebit, 
ide rather thin, is often used as a sauce. 

WHITE MUSHROOM SAUCE (CANNED MUSHROOMS) 

To a pint of veloute sauce add a generous half cup of mushrooms, 
t in halves or chopped. Do not let boil after the mushrooms are 
Ided. 

VELOUTE SAUCE FOR BOILED FISH 

Use the water in which the fish was cooked, fish stock, in making 
e usual veloute sauce; cook a bay leaf, a sUce of onion, and part 
a carrot with the fish, or fry the vegetables in the butter used for 
e roux. The ordinary veloute sauce made with veal and chicken 
3ck, may also, be used with the fish. For egg sauce, add two 
,rd-boiled eggs cut in slices. 

ASPARAGUS SAUCE (BROILED CHICKEN OR FISH) 

Pass a cup of cooked asparagus tips through a sieve and add to 
pint of velout6 sauce. Heat to the boiling point, add salt and 
pper and, if desired, the beaten yolks of two eggs. 



204 PRACTICAL COOKING AND SERVING 

SOUBISE SAUCE 

(rOE LAMB, MUTTON OR PORK CHOPS) 

Slice four onions, cover with cold water and drain after boiling 
five minutes; let cook with two stalks of parsley in boiling water 
until very soft, pass through a sieve and add to a cup of white 
sauce made with cream, or milk, or add to a cup of velout6 sauce. 

CELERY SAUCE 

(for boiled fowl) 

Boil a cup of celery, cut in bits, in salted water until tender; 
drain and add to a cup of white sauce made with cream or milk 
scalded with celery leaves, or use half a cup of cream and half a 
cup of the water in which the celery was cooked. 

CAULIFLOWER SAUCE 

(for boiled fowl) 

To a pint of white sauce made with milk or cream, or to a pint 
of veloutS sauce, add a generous cup of cooked cauliflower flowerets; 
reheat and when ready to serve beat in a teaspoonf ul of butter and 
a tablespoonful of lemon juice. 

TOMATO SAUCE (WHITE) 

To a pint of velout6 sauce add half cup of tomato puree. For 
the pur6e, let simmer a generous cup of strained tomato pulp until 
reduced one half. Or make a white sauce, using half cup, each, 
milk and tomato puree as the liquid. A few grains, less than one 
fourth teaspoonful, of soda may be added with the tomato. 
Scald the milk with a slice of onion, a stalk of celery, and a bit o» 
bay leaf. 

TOMATO SAUCE 

Cook a can of tomatoes, half an onion with a clove in it, half a 
teaspoonful of salt, a stalk of celery, a sprig of parsley, and a bay 
leaf twenty minutes; strain and cool. For each cup of pur& make 
a white roux with two tablespoonfuls, each, of butter and flour; 
then when cool add the pur6e and half a teaspoonful of meat 
extract; or use part stock and part pur£e. A tomato sauce is 
usually made quite thick, almost a pur6e. If the tomato pulp be 
thin, use more flour in the roux. 




CYLINDRICAL AND BORDER MOULDS. 
Shell, timbale, tongue mousse and cutlet moulds. 




PUREE SIEVES AND PESTLE 




QUICK-CUT CHOPPING KNIFE AND ENTERPRISE 
MEAT CHOPPER 




CHICKEN TIMBALES, ORNAMENTED WITH PAPER AIGRETTES 

(See page 23S.) 




SHELLS OF CHICKEN FORCEMEAT WITH QUENELLES 
(See page 233.) 




RAGOUT OF MACARONI WITH BEEF CUTLETS. (See page 238O 



OYSTER SAUCE 205 

CXJRRY SAUCE 

i cup of butter. t tablespoonfuls of chopped onion. 

i cup of flour. 2 cups of milk or 

2 tablespoonfuls of curry powder. i cup of milk and 

i tea^>oonful of salt. i cup of white stock. 

3 tablespoonfuls of currant jelly. i tablespoonful of lemon juice. 

Cook the onion in the butter without browning; add the flour, 
curry powder, and salt mixed together; let cook three or four 
minutes, add the liquid, the currant jelly, and the lemon juice; 
strain and reheat. When convenient use cocoanut, or almond 
milk. To prepare, let half cup or more of blanched almonds, or 
cocoanut, chopped and pounded in a mortar, stand in a cup and a 
half of hot milk an hour or more. Keep the mUk hot, then strain 
through a cloth, pressing out the liquid from the nuts. 

CHEESE SAUCE 
(for halibut or other white fish, baked) 

I tablespoonful of butter. i egg. 

X tablespoonful of cornstarch. | pound of grated cheese. 

i cup of milk. Salt, mustard and cayenne to taste. 

Make a sauce of the first three ingredients; add the cheese and 
seasoning and stir until melted; add a beaten egg and serve as 
soon as the egg is blended with the sauce; do not let boil after the 

cheese is added. 

OYSTER SAUCE 

(for boiled fowl or fish, baked fish, fish timbales, etc.) 

Scald a dozen and a half of oysters in their own liquor; skim 
careftJly, drain and keep hot. When ready to serve, add to a pint 
of white sauce made wiUi a cup, each, of strained oyster broth and 
milk or cream. Or add to a pint of velout6 sauce. Onion, celenr, 
and carrot, a bay leaf, etc., may be scalded in the milk. Also add 
a tablespoonful of lemon juice, if desired. 

LOBSTER SAUCE, NO. I. 

(tOK boiled fish, fish TIMBALESjETC.) 

To a cup and a half of velout^ made with chicken or lobster 
stock, or of white sauce made with milk or cream, or part lobster 
or fish stock, add half a cup of lobster meat cut in cubes, and if 



2o6 PRACTICAL COOKING AND SERVING 

convenient, beat in a tablespoonful of lobster butter, add also a 
dash of paprika and a teaspoonful of lemon juice. Shrimp sauce 
may be made in the same way. 

HORSERADISH SAUCE 

To a cup of veIout6 sauce add one fourth cup of hot cream and 
one third cup of fresh-grated horseradish; let heat without boiling. 

BUTTER SAUCE (DRAWN OR MELTED BUTTER) 

' J cup of butter. | teaspoonful of salt. 

2 tablespoonfuls of flour. | teaspoonful of pepper. 

I cup of water. 

Use half the butter with the flour in making the roux: when ready 
to serve, beat in the rest of the butter, a small piece at a time. As 
in making all sauces thickened with roux, cook the flour thoroughly 
before adding any of the liquid. The feature of this sauce is the 
addition of the butter, little by little, after the completion of the 
cooking. 

CUCUMBER SAUCE 

(for fish) 

To a pint of butter sauce add from one fourth to one half cup 
of chopped cucumber pickles. 

CAPER SAUCE 

(for boiled fish and mutton) 

To a pint of butter sauce add from one fourth to half cup of 
capers. 

EGG SAUCE 

(for boiled fish) 

To a pint of butter sauce add two or three hard-boiled eggs cut 
in one fourth inch slices, or chopped rather coarsely. 

ANCHOVY SAUCE 

(for fish) 

Pound the flesh of four anchovies with two tablespoonfuls of 
butter in a mortar; stir into a cup of butter sauce, pass through a 
sieve, reheat and add the juice of half a lemon. 



BROWN TOMATO SAUCE abf 

GERMAN SAUCE 

(for baked fish, especially shad) 

To a pint of butter sauce add the juice of half a lemon and half 
a cup of fine-chopped cooked spinach; strain a part of the sauce 
over the fish and serve the rest in a sauce boat. Do not strain out 
the spinach; use a sieve and pass the spinach through it. The 
beaten yolks of two eggs may be added with the last of the butter. 

BROWN SAUCE 

3 tablespoonftils of butter. j teaspoonful of salt. 

2 tablespoonfuls of flour. J teaspoonful of pepper. 

I cup of brown stock. 

Prepare a brown roux, being careful not to burn the butter and 
flour; add the stock gradually. 

BROWN SAUCE, NO. 2 

I tablespoonful of fine bits of onion. 2 tablespoonfuls of butter. 
I tablespoonful of fine bits of carrot. 3 tablespoonfuls of flour. 
I sprig of parsley. i teaspoonful of salt. 

I sprig of thyme. i teaspoonful of pepper. 

Piece of bay leaf. i cup of brown stock. 

Cook the vegetables and herbs in the butter until a russet brown; 
add the flour (an extra tablespoonful is used, as flour loses its 
thickening quality to some extent when changed to caramel) and 
brown ; then add the stock gradually. Strain before using. Flour 
already browned for sauces may be purchased at first-class groceries. 

BROWN MUSHROOM SAUCE 

(for beefsteaks, fillets of beef, etc.) 

To one cup of brown sauce add one third cup of canned button- 
mushrooms, whole or cut in halves. Fresh mushrooms need be 
cleaned and peeled, then sautdd in butter, or simmered in water 
imtjl tender, before they are added to the sauce. 

BROWN TOMATO SAUCE 

(foe beefsteak, cannelon of beef, macaroni, etc.) 

Take either recipe for brown sauce, using half the liquid of brown 
stock and half of tomato pulp, measured after stewing and strain- 
ing. 



ao8 PRACTICAL COOKING AKD SERVIPKJ 

OLIVE SAUCE 

(for roast duck) 

Cover a dozen olives with boiling water and let stand half an 
hour on the back of the range. Pare them round and round and 
remove the stone; add to a pint of brown sauce, then let simmer 
five or six minutes. 

SAUCE PIQUANTE 

(for boiled beef) 

2 tablespoonfuls of chopped shallot | cup of butter. 

or very mild onion. § cup of flour. 

z tablespoonfuls of fine-chopped 4 tablespoonfuls of vinegar 

parsley. 2 cups of bionn stock. 

Cayenne to taste. 

Cook the shallot with the butter and vinegar until the butter 
looks dear and brown, when the shallot will have absorbed the 
vinegar. Then add the flour and pepper, salt, if needed, and let 
cook until brown; add the stock gradually and, just before serving, 
the parsley and gherkins. 

CURRANT-JELLY SAUCE 

(for rechauffes of venison, mutton and lamb) 

Add to a cup of brown sauce, made by the first recipe, one fourth 
cup of currant jelly and a tablespoonful of lemon juice. 

SAUCE VILLEROI 

(fOK 0VSTER6, EGGS VILIJCSOI, AND FOR COATING COIS ITtLETS, 
OR OTHER MEATS THAT ARE TO BE HEATED BEFORE SERVING.) 

To a cup of white or brown sauce made in the usual manner 
add (after removing from the fire) the yolks of two eggs beaten with 
one fourth a cup of cream or milk. Cook over hot water, stirring 
constantly, until the sauce is quite stiff. When the sauce begins 
to cool, pour it over the articles to be served villeroi style, or the 
articles may be rolled in the sauce. Chopped mushrooms and 
parsley are often mixed with the sauce. 



FINE SAUCES 209 

CHAUDFROID SAUCE 

(for covering cold galantine of fowl, boiled or braised 

TONGUES, SWEETBREADS, ETC., THAT ARE TO BE SERVED COLD) 

To a pint of brown or white sauce made in the usual way and 
while still hot, add half a box, or one ounce of gelatine that has been 
soaked in cold water until soft. Stir until the gelatine has dissolved, 
then strain and use as soon as it begins to stiffen. Use a spoon and 
silver knife to spread the sauce, and fill uneven places on the surface 
of the article with sauce before beginning to cover the same, so that 
the dish when finished may present a smooth even surface. The 
article to be covered should be chilled on ice before the sauce is 
spread upon it. Use tomato sauce when a red color is desired. If 
a yellow color be the choice, add three or four beaten yolks of eggs, 
just as the sauce is removed from the fire. 

Flovtr has been used as the starchy ingredient of roux, but corn- 
starch or arrowroot may be used, keeping in mind that, as corn- 
starch has about twice the capacity of flour as a thickening agent, 
and arrowroot even greater capacity, the quantity must be dimin- 
ished accordingly. 

REFERRING TO SAUCES 

Butter and other fats when heated attain a high degree of tem- 
perature and in them starchy materials are cooked very quickly; 
but fats at a high temperature undergo certain changes that render 
them dif&cult of digestion, so that sauces prepared with roux are 
not suitable for children, or convalescents. For these it is better 
to prepare a sauce by one of the following methods: heat the stock, 
or water, to the boiling point (if milk be used, scald it over hot 
water), fiien dilute the butter, flour, and seasoning creamed to- 
gether with a little of the hot liquid, stir imtil smooth, then stir and 
cook in the rest of the hot liquid ten or fifteen minutes. Or dilute 
the flour and seasoning with cold liquid to pour, and stir into the 
boiling liquid, adding a little butter after the sauce is cooked, if 
desirable. 

FINE SAUCES 

Under the name of fine sauces, the two fundamental French 
sauces are to be noted. There are two points wherein these sauces 
differ from the simple white and brown sauces, that are the funda- 
mental sauces in the ordinary family cuisine, viz.: the character 



aio PRACTICAL COOKING AND SERVING 

of the liquid used, and the final removal of the butter used in the 
roiK. In the recipes for simple sauces, stock is used. In families 
of ordinary size there is usually material enough in the flank-ends 
of steak, the trimmings from chops, the bones from roasts of beef 
and fowl, the heads and trimmings from fish, and the body-bones 
from lobsters, to furnish all the stock needed for sauces. But the 
more carefully selected these materials are, the better the stock 
and, consequently, the sauce will be. Nor will bones and fat 
meat alone suffice, there must be the proper proportion of raw lean 
meat. The stock used in Espagnole sauce is not made of odds and 
ends, but of beef and veal, that in velout6, of veal and chicken. 
Espagnole and veloute sauce maigre are made of any suitable white 
fish. 

ESPAGNOLE SAUCE 

Butter a stewpan and put in two small onions, sliced; upon these 
place three pounds of veal from the fillet and one pound of beef 
from the neck, or round; moisten with a cup of "general" stock 
made without fowl and let boil until the stock is half reduced. 
Now, do not neglect the meat, but let simmer gently, turning fre- 
quently imtil it is of an even, bright brown color. The caramel 
flavor produced by thus glazing the meat is one of the features of 
French sauces. The glazing must be arrested as soon as a bright 
brown color is attained; for, if the glaze becomes dark brown in 
color, the sauce will be bitter. When the meat is glazed, remove 
from the fire, and let stand, covered, five minutes; this will facilitate 
the dissolving of the glaze. Now pour in three quarts of general 
stock, bring to the boiling point and add a carrot, cut small, half 
a tablespoonful of salt, and half a bay leaf and a sprig of th3rme 
tied in a sprig or two of parsley; let simmer until the meat is tender, 
then remove to serve as bouilli, or for use in " made dishes." Strain 
and cool the stock. Make a brown roux with one cup of clarified 
butter and one and a half cups of flour; add the stock in the usual 
manner. After all is added and the sauce is boiling, remove to the 
back of the range, and let simmer two hours with the saucepan 
partly covered. Skim off the fat twice during this period. At the 
end of two hours remove the fat a third time, strain the sauce and 
set aside for use. Butter loses its flavor in cooking, and it is used in 
all sauces thickened with roux simply as a medium in which to cook 
starch. The removal of this butter, which has served its purpose, 
gives the smooth velvety appearance that distinguishes the simple 
f'xjra the fine sauces . 



ESSENCE OF MUSHROOMS 311 

VELOUTE SAUCE 

3 pounds of fillet of veal. i carrot. 

I chicken (fillets of breast removed Salt and pepper, 
if desired.) i cup of butter. 

I onion. i cup of flour, 

4 quarts of general stock (white meat). 

Prepare as Espagnole sauce, but without glazing the meat, or 
browning the flour. In large establishments, where a variety in 
sauces is called for, by simply adding to these fundamental sauces 
the essence of mushrooms, game, or chicken, glaze of some par- 
ticular kind and mirepoix, i.e., vegetable glaze, any kiad of sauce 
desired is produced at short notice; as, for instance: 

SAUCE SUPREME 

I quart of fine veloutfi sauce. 
J cup of essence of chicken. 
I cup of essence of mushrooms. 

Let the ingredients come to the boiling point and simmer half 
an hour, then skim. 

ESSENCE OF CHICKEN 

Essences are used to flavor and dilute the fundamental sauces; 
the various essences of fowl, game, etc., are all prepared in the same 
way. Remove the breasts and legs from three chickens and set 
aside for other use; disjoint the rest, add to the result a pound of 
veal, an onion with a clove in it, half a carrot, a kitchen bouquet and 
three pints of chicken consomme, let simmer until the meat is 
done. Use the meat in made dishes; strain the essence and set 
aside; skim off the fat before using, 

ESSENCE OF MUSHROOMS 

In a closed saucepan put a pound of cleaned mushroooms, two 
tablespoonfuls of lemon juice, and a teaspoonful of salt over the 
fire; let stand five minutes, then add a pint of chicken consomm6; 
let boil about eight minutes; strain and set aside. The mushrooms 
may be added to a salpicon of chicken, or oysters. 



212 PRACTICAL COOKING AKD SERVING 

MIRBPOIX 

I pound of veal. 2 onions. 

J pound of bacon. 2 bay leaves. 

1 pound of ham. i sprig of thyme. 

2 carrots. 2 shallots. 

2} quarts of general stock. 

Put the meat and vegetables, all cut in small pieces, into a frying, 
pan and fry to a light brown color; add the stock, let boil up once, 
then simmer two hours; strain and set away for use. 

GLAZE 

Meat, game, or fish glaze is added to certain fine sauces to finish 
them; glaze is also much used to give a glossy, shiny appearance 
to joints, baked fish and entries. A meat glaze is used for baked 
sweetbreads, and gives to them a very inviting appearance. For 
household use it may be prepared by reducing a strong, cleared 
stock, either white or brown, one fourth. Simmer in an open 
saucepan \mtil it has the consistency of a sauce. When cold it will 
be soUd and somewhat elastic. When ready to use, heat over hot 
water and apply with a brush, or baste the article to be glazed with 
a spoon. 

SAUCES THICKENED WITH EQQ EMULSION 

(hot sauces) 
HOLLANDAISE SAUCE 
(for boiled or baked fish, fish timbales, asparagus, 
cauliflower, etc.) 

§ cup of butter. A few grains of cayenne. 

Yolks of two to four eggs. | cup of boiling water, 

i teaspoonful of salt The juice of half a lemon. 

With a small wooden spoon cream the butter; add the yolks of 
the eggs, one at a time, and beat into the butter thoroughly; add 
the salt, cayenne, and water, and cook in a double-boiler, stirring 
constantly until the sauce thickens; then add the lemon juice and 
remove from the fire. The number of yolks depends upon the 
consistency desired in the sauce. Lift the saucepan from the 
water from time to time, lest the sauce be curdled by overcooking. 



MOUSSELINE SAUCE 213 

With two egg yolks the sauce should be creamy, with four, about 
the consistency of mayonnaise sauce. 

LOBSTER OR SHRIMP SAUCE, NO. 2 

To the recipe for Hollandaise sauce add half a cup of lobster meat 
cut in cubes, or shrimps picked in pieces and also, if at hand, a 
tablespoonful of lobster butter. (See page 219.) 

CUCUMBER SAUCE 

Prepare a Hollandaise sauce according to recipe previously 
given; add a raw cucumber cut in dice. 

NONPAREIL SAUCE 

Tint a pint of Hollandaise sauce with lobster butter; then add 
the meat from the claws of a lobster, the poached white of an egg 
and six or eight canned or cooked mushrooms, all cut into cubes. 

COLBERT SAUCE 

{ cup strong consonun£ or chicken i tablespoonful of chopped paisley 

stock. i tablespoonful of chopped 
The yolks of two eggs. tarragon. 

4 cup of butter. J tcaspoonful of salt. 
The juice of half a lemon. 

Melt the consomme; when heated add the beaten yolks of two 
eggs and stir and cook over hot water imtil the sauce is thickened 
slightly. Add the butter in small bits to the sauce while cooking. 
Before talcing from the fire add the herbs and salt. 

MOUSSELINE SAUCE 

(tor aspabagus and cauuplower) 

i cnp of butter. a tablespoonfuls of lemon Juice. 

The yolks of four eggs, } teaspoonful of salt 

i cup of thick aeam. A few grains of cayenne. 

Make as Hollandaise sauce, using cream in place of water, but 
reserving half the butter to add in bits at the last. 



214 PRACTICAL COOKING AND SERVING 

BERNAISE SAUCE 

(foe broiled steak and fillets of beef) 

a tablespoonfuls of chopped shallot. The yolks of three eggs. 

2 tablespoonfuls of vinegar. i cup of butter. 

A few grains of cayenne. i tablespoonful of chopped parsley. 

Cook the shallot with the vinegar until nearly all the vinegar 
is absorbed : add the yolks and a small piece of the butter, and let it 
cook over hot water, adding the butter in small pieces, then add 
the seasoning. This sauce has about the consistency of mayon- 
naise sauce. It may be used either hot or cold. 

FRENCH SAUCE 

Make a Bemaise sauce, using one cup of butter in all and addi- 
tional salt and pepper: add to the sauce while mijdng one fourth- 
cup of thick tomato purle that has been passed through a very fine 
sieve; finish the sauce with one tablespoonful of chicken glaze, one 
tablespoonful of fine-chopped parsley, and, if desired, a tablespoon- 
ful of reduced chili vinegar. 

COLD SAUCES 

MAYONNAISE SAUCE 

(for salads and cold meats) 

A few grains of cayenne or paprika, i pint of olive oil. 

I teaspoonful of salt. 2 tablespoonfuls of lemon juice. 

The yolks of two raw eggs. 2 tablespoonfuls of vin^ar. 

I teaspoonful of powdered sugar and 

i teaspoonful of mustard, if desired. 

Mbc the salt and paprika, add other seasonings and the 
yolks; beat well, adding the acid, gradually, beating it in 
with a Dover or Holt egg-beater. When all the acid has been 
added, turn in a teaspoonful of olive or other vegetable 
oil and continue the beating; add oil, a teaspoonful at a time, three 
or four times, beating vigorously meanwhile; then add the oil by 
the tablespoonful until all has been used. At the last beat in two 
or three tablespoonfuls of boiling water. The boiling water is 
thought to keep the sauce from "turning" or curdling alter it has 



GREEN MAYONNAISE 215 

been set aside. By adding all of the acid to the yolks before oil is 
used, the egg-beater may be used from the beginning and the 
larger surface over which the oil is spread lessens the liability of 
the mixture to curdle. After the sauce is mixed, cover with an 
earthen or glass dish and set aside in a cool place. 

ROQUEFORT SALAD DRESSING 

Put about two ounces (quarter of a cup) of Roquefort cheese in 
a bowl and with a new wooden spoon (an apple-tree or olive-wood 
spoon is appropriate for dining-room use) work the cheese to a 
cream, then gradually beat in from four to six tablespoonfuls of 
olive oil, two to three tablespoonfuls of vinegar, and a scant half 
teaspoonful, each, of salt and paprika. The uncooked yolk of an 
egg is sometimes beaten into the cheese and thick cream may re- 
place part of the oil. This dressing is particularly good for lettuce 
and endive, sliced tomatoes and cold boiled cauliflower. 

MAYONNAISE OR FRENCH DRESSING WITH VARIATIONS 

Into either a mayonnaise or a French dressing, made with a little 
onion juice, mix chili sauce to make the dressing of the consistency 
of thi<± cream. For cauliflower, tomatoes, string beans, etc., with 
endive or lettuce, beat into a French dressing fine-chopped pimen- 
tos, parsley and chives. 

WHITE MAYONNAISE SAUCE 

Prepare the mayonnaise with lemon juice instead of vinegar, 
and when ready to serve fold into a dressing made of one pint of 
oil, a cup of whipped cream, and a few grains of salt and pepper. 
Use double cream; whip imtil solid and measure after whipping. 

GREEN MAYONNAISfi 

(for fish and cold lamb) 

Cook together a cup of peas, two or three leaves, each, of mint 
and lettuce, a root of spinach, and a sprig of parsley, until the peas 
are tender. Drain and press through a fine sieve. If the pulp 
be moist, cook and stir imtil dry. When cold add to mayonnaise 
dressing, using such quantity as is needed to secure the tint desired. 
Omit the mint leaves when the sauce is for fish. 



art PRACTICAL COOKING AND SERVING 

RED MAYONNAISE 

Cook a can of tomato pur6e — cooked tomatoes strained — until 
reduced to two tablespoonfuls. Add when cold to mayonnaise 
dressing, using such quantity as is needed to secure the desired tint. 

JELLY MAYONNAISE 

To a cup of mayonnaise dressing beat in gradually from two table- 
spoonfuls to one third cup of chilled but liquid aspic jeUy (see 
page 247). 

SAUCE TARTARE 

To a pint of mayonnaise sauce, made with tarragon vinegar and 
mustard, add a shallot chopped fine, one fourth a cup, each, of 
fine-chopped capers, olives, and cucumber pickles, two tablespoon- 
fuls of chopped parsley, and half a teaspoonf ul of powdered tar- 
ragon. Half a teaspoonful of onion juice may take the place of 
the shallot. 

COOKED SAUCE FOR CHICKEN SALAD. (MRS. ARMS. OHIO ) 

i cup of weQ-reduced chicken stock, i teaspoonful of paprika. 

i cup of vinegar. Yolks of five egga 

i cup of mised mustard. i cup of oil. 

I teaspoonful of salt. I cup of sweet cream. 

Beat the yolks of the eggs with the salt, pepper and mustard; 
cook over hot water, in the chicken stock and vinegar, until the 
mixture coats the spoon. When cold and ready to serve beat the 
oil into the sauce with a whisk and fold in the cream beaten stifi 
with a Dover egg-beater. Less mustard may be used. 

COOKED SALAD DRESSINa (ANNIE P. DOUGHTY, BOSTON) 

t teblespoonful of mustard i cup of vinegar. 

i cup of sugar. I cup of sweet or sour cream. 

i cup of butter. 3 beaten eggs. 

I tea^wonful of salt. A few grains of cayenne. 

Cream together the butter, sugar, and spices; add the beatec 
eggs and cook in the hot cream ; when the mixture begins to thicken, 
jidd the vinegar, a few drops at a time, until all is used. Beat the 



BREAD SAUCE 217 

mixture constantly and remove from the w&ter, occasionally, to 
avoid overheating. 

BOILED SALAD DRESSING 

(foe tomatoes, cauliflower, meat or fish) 

Mix one fourth teaspoonful of salt, one fourth teaspoonful of 
toustard, and a few grains of cayenne. Add the yolks of two eggs 
and the white of one, beat untU well mixed, then add four table- 
spoonfuls of butter and three fovurths cup of sweet cream. Stir 
and cook over hot water until thickened slightly, then gradually 
add two tablespoonfuls of vinegar and set aside to become thor- 
oughly chilled. 

PRUSSIAN SAUCE. (MRS. WHEELOCK, MINNEAPOLIS) 

(for hot and cold meats) 

i cup of sugar. i cup of German prepared mustard. 

i cup of butter. J cup of yolks of eggs. 

J cup of white sour wine. J cup of broth or water. 

J cup of vinegar. i teaspoonful of salt. 

Mix and heat all the ingredients, except the eggs, in a double- 
*t)oiler, over the fire; beat the eggs, dilute with the hot mixture, 
\nd cook in the saucepan until like cream, beating the mixttxre 
«:onstantly. 

UNCLASSIFIED SAUCES 

BREAD SAUCE 

i cup of fine, stale bread crumbs. J teaspoonful of salt. 
I onion stuck with six cloves. J teaspoonful of paprika. 

X pint of milk. 2 tablespoonfuls of butter. 

Cook the bread crumbs with all the ingredients, except the butter, 
about an hour in a double-boiler. When ready to serve, remove the 
onion and cloves, add the butter and beat thoroughly. Pour o\ er 
roast birds or egg timbales, then sprinkle the whole with bread 
crumbs browned in butter. The bread crumbs may be prepared 
by pressing pieces of bread from the centre of the loaf through a 
colander. 



2i8 PRACTICAL COOKING ANB SERVING 

CUCUMBER SAUCE, COLD 

(for broiled fish) 

Pare and grate two cucumbers; drain, season with salt, cayenne, 
and vinegar or lemon juice. 

HORSERADISH SAUCE 

(for roast and boiled beef, etc.) 

To the recipe for bread sauce add half cup of fresh-grated 
horseradish just before removing from the fire. 

HORSERADISH SAUCE 

Scald one pint of cream; add one fourth cup of fresh-grated 
horseradish and half teaspoonful of salt; mix and serve. 

HORSERADISH SAUCE NO. 3 

(for fish-balls, fish, meat, etc.) 

Scald half cup of fresh-grated horseradish in a cup of stock, 
or water; dilute three beaten egg yolks with a cup of cream and 
cook in the first mixture until the spoon becomes coated; add half 
a teaspoonful of salt. 

CHERRY SAUCE 

(for lamb) 

Cook a pint of cherries in a pint of water with two cloves imtil 
soft; pass through a sieve, return the pulp and juice to the fire, 
and, when boiling, pour little by little over two tablespoonfuls 
of flour beaten into two tablespoonfuls of butter; return to the fire 
and cook five or six minutes after boiling begins; add a few grains 
of salt and the juice of a lemon. Serve hot. 

MINT SAUCE 
(for lamb) 

1 bunch of mint. The juice of one lemon or 
i cup of boiling water. 4 tablespoonfuls of vinegar. 

2 tablespoonfuls of sugar. A ^ew grains of cayenne. 

I teaspoonful of salt. 



GREEN BUTTER 219 

Chop the leaves from the bunch of mint very fine; pour over the 
Arater, add the sugar, cover closely, and let stand in a cool place 
half an hour; then add the lemon juice or vinegar. If lemon juice 
be used, omit half of the sugar. 

maItre d'h6tel butter 

(for broiled meats or eish) 

Cream one fourth cup of butter; add half a teaspoonful of salt, 
a dash of pepper, half tablespoonful of fine-chopped parsley, and 
three fourths tablespoonful of lemon juice, very slowly. The 
heat of the meat or fish will dissolve the butter. 

ANCHOVY BUTTER 

(for mackerel or other fish broiled, or to add to a melted 

BUTTER SAUCE FOR FISh) 

Cream half cup of butter; add to it, gradually, two tablespoon- 
fuls of essence of anchovies and the juice of half a lemon. Remove 
the fish to a warm platter, spread the anchovy butter over the fish, 
and garnish with slices of lemon dipped in chopped parsley. 

LOBSTER BUTTER 

(for halibut or other white fish, broiled, or to add to 
melted butter to serve with fish, or to mask a fish 

TO BE SERVED COLD) 

Poimd the spawn of a lobster with half pound of butter and 
pass it through a very fine sieve; season with salt and pepper and 
set aside for use. 

GREEN BUTTER 

(same USE AS LOBSTER BUTTER) 

J pound of butter. 2 tablespoonfuls of very fine-chopped 

I peck of spinach parsley. 

2 teaspoonfuk of very fine-chopped capers. 

Press the spinach, boiled and drained thoroughly, through a 
cheesecloth. Beat the butter to a cream, gradually add the 
spinach, parsley, and capers. 



aao PRACTICAL COOKHfO AND SEKVlIfG 

BLACK BUTTER (BUERRB NOIR), 

(rOR nSH, POACHED EGGS, ETC.) 

Cook half cup (four ounces) of fresh table butter in a frying- 
pan until it assiunes a deep golden color, skim, cook a moment or 
two longer, then pour off the top, discarding the dark sediment 
This is also made with parsley, a tablespoonful of leaves, washed, 
dried, and divided into tiny bits, being added for each ounce of 
butter. Add the parsley when the butter begins to color; cook 
until the parsley is crisp. 

CLARIFIED BUTTER 

(for boiled fish, asparagus, cauliflower, etc.) 

Put half a pound of butter in a saucepan over a slow fire, let 
boil very gently, skimming occasionally, for about half an hour 
without discoloring, then pour the clear liquid from the sediment. 

CHANTILLY APPLE SAUCE WITH HORSERADISH 

(for ducks and geese, particularly young ducks and 
goslings) 

Cook a pound (five apples of medium size) of apples, cored and 
quartered, with a very little hot water (they need be quite dry when 
cooked) and pass through a fine sieve; add to the pulp two table- 
spoonfuls of powdered sugar, one fourth cup of grated horse- 
radish and, when mixed together, fold in an equal bulk of whipped 
cream. 

ENGLISH APPLE SAUCE WITH HORSERADISH 

(for salted and smoked meats) 

Prepare as before, having the apple pulp very dry; omit the 
cream and add the juice of one or two oranges, then reheat without 
boiling. 



CHAPTER Vm 
Complex Meat and Fish Dishes: Entrees, Rechauffes, etc. 

"It was a rye loaf, or rather a pye made in the form of a loaf, for it enclosed 
some salmon highly seasoned with pepper." — Cook. 

An entree is a dish served at dinner or luncheon between the 
regular coiu-ses. Some entries are served hot and others, from pref- 
erence, cold or iced. As entrdes are served from the side, they are 
often shaped in individual portions; if not so shaped, they are 
separated into portions before they are passed. Meat, fish, eggs, 
vegetables, and, occasionally, fruit may form the foundation of an 
entrde. Uncooked meat or fish is often used in these dishes, but 
there is no place in cookery, where the cook has such an oppor- 
tunity to display her skill, as in the preparation of entrees from 
materials left over from other dishes. As meats and fish lose flavor 
in recooking, broth or stock to heighten flavor is almost a sine qua 
Hon, both in the composition of the dish itself and in the sauce with 
which it is served. Standard broth gives the best results, but 
broth carefully made from odds and ends of weU-selected material 
is not to be despised. As a means to this same end the appropri- 
ate use of celery salt or pepper, curry powder, tabasco sauce, a 
"faggot," onion, and marinades are to be commended. But, in 
reality, success in this branch of the culinary art depends largely 
upon the manner in which the fundamental ingredients are hand- 
led, and especially is this the case in the composition of r&hau£fes. 

Meat or fish that has once been cooked must of necessity be 
treated thereafter most delicately. As for these, the process is 
one of reheating, further cooking needs be avoided. It is well to 
remember the following items: 

(ist) That whenever vegetable, sauce, etc., is to be added to 
cooked fish or meat, it must be thoroughly cooked before being 
combined with these ingredients for reheating. 

(and) That cooked proteid substance while reheating must be 
protected in some way from direct contact with the heat of the 



212 PRACTICAL COOKING AND SERVING 

oven, fat or fire: as, for instance, with sauce, buttered crumbs, egg 
and bread crumbs, pastry cases, etc. 

(3rd) That the more finely these cooked substances be divided, 
the shorter the time needed in reheating arid the more readily will 
they absorb sauce or whatever is to give them flavor. 

(4th) That all bone, gristle, unsightly or unedible portions need 
be carefully trimmed away before cooked fish or meat is chopped 
or otherwise divided. 

(Sth) That, in chopping, the material is to be cut into tangible 
bits, not mashed, and, in slicing or cutting into cubes, the divisions 
are to be uniformly and neatly made. 

For convenience and to insure a better understanding of the 
subject, hot entr&s may be considered under four divisions, and 
the various cold entries, such as chaudfroids, aspics, etc., in a class 
by themselves, as: 

1. Simple salpicon (ragout) mixtures, or chopped mixtures 
(either uncooked or r&hauffe). Served in borders, etc. 

2. Salpicon or chopped mixtures, enclosed when cold in egg and 
bread crumbs, pastry, batter, etc., and fried, as croquettes, ris- 
soles, fritters, kromeskis. 

3. Pur6es of meat or fish mixed with different proportions of 
egg, cream or sauce, panard, etc., to form souffles, creams, quenelles, 
mousses, etc. 

4. Dishes composed of small pieces of solid meat trimmed to 
uniform shapes and sizes, as fillets, cutlets, suprtoes, etc. 

5. Cold entr^s, as chaudfroids, aspics, etc. 

There are several utensils that simplify to a great extent the 
making of entrees. The first in importance is a sharp knife of 
suitable size, then follows a chopping knife, a meat chopper, a 
mortar and pestle, and a puree sieve and wooden spoon. But, in 
accordance with die bon mot of Motley, one might be inclined to 
do without a sharp knife or a chopping knife, to indulge in the 
luxury of a meat chopper, if anything so useful and saving of time 
and strength can be called a luxury. 

In selecting sharp knives of various sizes, the best French knives 
are the cheapest in the end. If a knife will not take and hold an 
edge, it is worthless. The "quick cut" chopping knives made in 
Canton, Ohio, on account of their shape, are easily cleaned and 
have more cutting surface than those of other make. They are 
made of good steel. In meat choppers, one that cuts clean rather 
than crushes the meat is the kind to purchase. Some machines 
are so made that with them meat may be cut in large or small 



CHOPPED MIXTURES 223 

pieces. The knife of the Enterprise dioK»r may be reshatpened 
or an old knife replaced by a new. Purfe sieves come in different 
sizes; the size of mesh in the sieve cloth varies according to the use 
for which it is designed. A sieve with twenty-eight holes to the 
linear inch is needed for sifting icing sugar. A twelve-mesh sieve, 
or twelve holes to the linear inch, is adapted to sifting pur6es and 
marmalades, and an eight mesh for bread crumbs. 



SALPICON OR CHOPPED MIXTURES SERVED PLAIN 
OR IN BORDERS, ETC. 

These mixtures (see Salpicon, Chapter IV) may be prepared of 
one or several kinds of meat. In addition, a few bits of cooked 
ham or bacon, also calves', lambs' or chickens' liver may be in- 
cluded at discretion. We may have also a brown or a white 
mixture. The proportions are one cup of sauce to each half pound 
(one cup, solid measure) of meat or fish. In detail, for a brown 
mixture, peel and chop fine half a small onion (slice of larger size 
is enough) and a mushroom if convenient; saut6 in two tablespoon- 
fuls of butter or drippings (that from the top of the soup kettle 
preferred) until lightly browned; sprinkle in two tablespoonfuls of 
flour and continue cooking until of a light brown color, then add 
gradually one cup of stock or water, beating the sauce smooth be- 
tween each addition of liquid; let boil five minutes, then, when the 
sauce has cooled a little, add the meat chopped or divided accord- 
ing to the directions given at the beginning of the chapter, and 
reheat without boiling. If the meat be in slices, and particularly 
if it be lamb, mutton or venison, it may stand to advantage in a 
marinade (see Chapter IV, page 26) an hour or two before re- 
heating. Then use the strained marinade as a part of the liquid 
of the sauce. 

When a curried dish is called for, saute with the onion half a sour 
apple, a few green gooseberries or a piece of rhubarb; add the curry 
powder (a tablespoonful or less, according to taste) with the flour 
and continue cooking eight or ten minutes before adding the cup 
of stock. Half a cup of almond or cocoanut milk is considered 
by many as an improvement to dishes of curry. To prepare the 
nut milk, scald the pounded nuts in milk, then strain forcibly 
through a cheesecloth. When other acids are not at hand, a little 
currant jery with lemon juice gives the sweetish-sour taste con- 



234 PRACTICAL COOKING AND SERVING 

sidered so essential in a properly concocted curry. Let the meat 
stand over hot water some little time in the curry sauce to take up 
the flavor of the sauce. Serve in a rice border (see Cooking of 
Rice, page 300). For white salpicon, or chopped mixture, proceed 
in the same manner, without browning the vegetables or flour, and 
use milk or white stock as the liquid. Below are given recipes 
showing a few of the countless variations in serving these dishes. 

TURKEY RECHAUFFE 

With pastry bag and rose-tube, fashion potato roses around the 
inside of a dish that will stand the heat of the oven. Use hot po- 
tato, either duchess or plain mashed. Brush over the potato with 
an egg beaten with a spoonful of milk, add the rest of the egg to the 
sauce in which cold tiu:key, chopped or cut in cubes, is to be re- 
heated. Have the saiice quite consistent, to avoid running out 
between the "roses." To secure this, cut down the quantity of 
liquid for the sauce, or use more flour. Pour the turkey mixture 
into the centre of the dish, cover the top with cracker crumbs 
stirred into melted butter, and set the dish into the oven to brown 
the crumbs. The rechauffe may be brown or white. See preced- 
ing paragraph. 

MUTTON rechauffe', CREOLE STYLE 

I tablespoouful of chopped green Salt. 

pepper. A grating of horseradish. 

I tablespoonful of chopped onion. i teaspoonful of lemon juice. 

3 tablespoonfuls of butter. i^ cups of cooked mutton cut in thin 
3 tablespoonfuls of flour. slices. 

I cup of brown stock. i cup of tomato pulp. 

Prepare according to previous directions; reheat the mutton m 
the sauce over hot water and pour over cooked macaroni, blanched 
and drained. Let stand in the open oven long enough for the 
macaroni to become hot, then serve at once. 

CREAMED CORNED BEEF AU QRATIN 

3 cups of cold corned beef, cut in I cup of flour. 

cubes. 2 cups of milk. 

8 slices of onion. Paprika to taste. 

I cup of celery leaves or coarse i cup of cracker crumbs. 

stalks cut in pieces. s tablespoonfuls of melted buttac 

i cup of butter. 



MEAT RECHAUFFE »S 

Scald the milk with the onion and celery and strain a little at 
a time over the butter, flour, and paprika creamed together; stir 
and cook until smooth and boiling, then cook over hot water ten 
minutes, and strain over the corned beef; turn into a buttered gratin 
dish, stir the cracker crumbs into the melted butter, spread them 
over the top of the mixture and set the dish in the oven long enough 
to brown the crumbs. Garnish with curled celery or celery leaves. 

VICTORIA CHICKEN. (BOSTON COOKING SCHOOL) 

i cup of butter. Salt and paprika. 

J cup of flour. I J cups of cooked fowl, cut in cubes. 

(a slices of onion) if convenient or i cup of cooked and drained peas, 
(i mushroom) agreeable. fresh or canned. 

1 cup of chicken stock. i cup of tomato pur£e. 

Prepare as usual. Serve in pastry or china cases, tiny casseroles, 
bread croustades or on toast. 

CALF'S HEAD OR MOCK TERRAPIN. (ELLEN M. CHANDLER) 

Calf's bead and brdns. i cup of cream. 

Black and cayenne pepper. i cup of butter. 

3 blades of mace. 4 tablespoonfuls of flour. 

4 eggs (hard boiled). i cup of sherry win«. 

I cup of broth. 

Steam or simmer the well-cleaned head and brains, tied in a 
cloth, of a calf until the meat is tender — the brains will cook in 
twenty minutes — it should then be set aside in a covered dish. 
Remove the head meat from the bones and when cold cut in small 
pieces, spread on a dish and season with the pepper. Melt the 
butter, add the flour and cook until frothy, then gradually add the 
broth and cream and stir until the sauce boils; then add the pieces 
of meat, the brains, also separated into pieces, and the eggs (cooled 
in (iold water and cut in slices). Let simmer until all are well 
heated, then remove from the fire, add the wine and serve in a hot 
dish. 

MEAT RfeCHAUFFfe WITH CURRV AND TURKISH PILAF 

i cup of butter. i§ cups of stock. 

2 slices of onion. i cup of almond milk. 

I dove of garlic. a tablespoonfuls of currant jelly. 

1 cup of flour. I tablespoonful of lemon juice. 

2 tablespoonfuls of cnny powder. 2 cups of thin sliced meat. 



aa6 PRACTICAL COOKING AND SERVING 

Prepare as usual and reheat over hot water. Serve inside a 
border of plain boiled rice or of Turkish pilaf . The pilaf may be 
shaped with a spoon, or in a border mould. For the latter press ; 
the cooked rice into a buttered moxild, let stand ten minutes in 
the oven, then invert on the serving-dish. (For Rice and Turkish 
Pilaf, see pages 300 and 302.) 



MUTTON RECHAUFF6 WITH MACARONI 

J cup of macaroni. i pint, generous measure, of to- 

I pint of cold Iamb or mutton in mato sauce, 

slices. i cup of butter. 

I cup of cracker crumbs. 

Use the trimmings and bones in making stock for the tomato 
sauce. In a buttered au gratin dish alternate the layers of maca- 
roni and meat dressed with the sauce: mix the crumbs with the 
melted butter and spread over the last layer, which should have 
sauce above. Set into the oven long enough to brown the cnmibs. 



HARICOT OR RAGOUT OF MUTTON (UNCOOKED MEAT) 



3 pounds of mutton (neck 


or breast). 


I sprig of thyme. 


2 ounces (i cup) of butter. 




A bay lea.f . 


a tablespoonf uls of flour. 




I clove. 


I dove of garlic. 




Potatoes. 


I onion. 




Salt. 




4 sprigs of parsley. 



Cut the mutton in pieces two inches long and one inch wide and 
•aut^ in the butter until well browned, then stir in the flour and, 
when blended with the butter, add cold water to cover; add also 
the seasoning, the onion whole, and the garlic chopped fine. Let 
simmer imtil nearly tender, stirring occasionally; add the potatoes, 
pared, quartered and cut in the shape of an orange carpel, having 
about as many pieces of potato as of meat, and let simmer until the 
potatoes are tender. Serve the pieces of meat in the middle of the 
dish, the potatoes around, and the liquid, from which the fat has 
been removed, over the whole.. Prepare other meats, as veal, 
chicken, and rabbit, in the same maimer. 



CHICKEN AND SWEETBREAD CROQUETTES aa? 

II 

SALPICON OR CHOPPED MIXTURES, COOLED THEN 
FRIED, PROTECTED BY CRUMBS OR BATTER, ETC. 

CROQUETTES 

The object to be desired in croquette mixtures, besides flavor, 
is a consistency of such firmness as will allow the shaping of the 
mixture easily when cold, and yet will insure a soft and creamy mass 
when heated. This condition may be best secured by using veal 
or chicken stock in the sauce which forms the foundation of all 
these dishes. Stock made from veal or chicken is rich in gelatine, 
and, thus, a liquid when hot, it becomes a firm jelly easy to handle 
when cold. The sauce for these mixtures is to be prepared accord- 
ing to the directions given under division I. To the sauce is added 
the materials to be used, one or more in kind, chopped or cut small, 
not crushed. Yolks of eggs; and cream are added for richness or 
additional nutriment, but most delicious croquettes may be made 
without either in the body of the mixture; eggs, however, are 
needed to make a fat-proof covering. After the meat or vegetable 
has been stirred into the sauce, set aside in a shallow dish to become 
cold. To shape, egg-and-bread-ctumb and fry, (see Chapter IV, 
pages 23-24) 

RECIPES 

CHICKEN AND SWEETBREAD CROQUETTES] 

i cup of cream. 
J cup of butter. i egg. 

i cup of flour. Salt and paprika. 

I cup of milk or i teaspoonful of lemon juice. 

I cup of chicken stock seasoned i pair of sweetbreads and chicken to 

with vegetables and herbs. make ij cups in all. 

If a richer flavor than the stock gives be desired, cook a slice of 
onion and a mushroom or two in the butter to be used in making 
the sauce. Add the'egg, two yolks are better than the whole egg, 
just before the meat, arid do not boil the sauce after the egg is 
added. 

This same formula may be used with any kind of meat or com- 
binations of meat, or with fish, shell-fish or vegetables, all having 
been previously cooked. 



228 PRACTICAL COOKING AND SERVING 

Oystors need be carefully drained after parboiling, then when 
cold, cut in small pieces, and drained again. 

If the oyster liquor be used instead of chicken or veal stock, a 
teaspoonful of gelatine, softened in a little of the liquor, will be of 
help in shaping iJie croquettes. Add the last half cup of meat at 
discretion. Each bit of meat should be surrounded by a aeamy 
sauce, but often the full pint is not required. Serve with vege- 
tables, as green peas or asparagus tips, or with a sauce, as Bechamel 
or mushroom. 

MACARONI, CELERY, ASPARAQUS-TIPS, CAULIFLOWER, 
MUSHROOM, AND GREEN PEA CROQUETTES 

The above are among the vegetables most successfully served 
in croquettes; all should be perfectly cooked and drained. The 
macaroni, celery, mushrooms, and cauliflower are to be cut into 
small bits, then mixed with sauce. Tomato sauce and cheese are 
admissible as the foundation of all croquettes save those made of 
green peas. Chicken stock is preferable with asparagus. Serve 
with tomato, white. Bechamel or Hollandaise sauce. 

The formiila is the same as that given for chicken and sweet- 
bread croquettes. Add the cheese before the vegetable, Uiat the 
heat of the sauce may melt it; the quantity is largely a matter of 
taste; one tablespooiifu] to half cup when a pronounced flavor is 
called for. Parmesan cheese should be given preference, but 
American factory cheese will prove quite satisfactory. 

CUTLETS OF SWEETBREAD 

Cut in small cubes one or two pairs of parboiled and cooled sweet- 
breads, and add cubes of cooked red tongue and chopped cooked 
mushrooms to make a pint in all. Bind together with about a cup 
and a half of thick white sauce, to which have been added the yolk 
of an egg, a grating of nutmeg, a tablespoonful of lemon juice and 
a tablespoonful of fine-chopped parsley. When cold form into 
cutlet shapes, egg-and-bread-crumb and fry in deep fat, 
VEAL CROQUETTES 

One set of calf's brains. Scant } teaspoonful of salt 

I sweetbread. A few grains of cayenne. 

Cold veal to make i pint In all. i teaspoonful of lemon juice. 

I cup of veal stock. i teaspoonful of onion juice. 

i cup of cream. I egg. 

\ cup of butter. Fine-chopped paisley. 

} cup of flour. Egg and bread crumbs. 



KROMESKIS MQ 

Serve with white sauce, to which has been added the other 
sweetbread cut in cubes; or with mushroom sauce or vegetable* 
a la jardini^e. 

CHICKEN CUTLETS, PARKER HOUSE STYLE 

Prepare a croquette mixture, using the formula given for chicken 
and sweetbread croquettes, but omitting the sweetbreads at choice. 
Form the chilled mixture into cutlet shapes, dip into a yolk of egg, 
beaten and diluted with one tablespoonful of melted butter to each 
yolk of egg, then into fine bread crumbs, dispose on a buttered 
baking pan, agate preferred, some little distance apart. Pipe a 
duchess potato mixture on to the edge of the cutlets, brush with 
beaten yolk of egg and reheat in the oven; fill the open centres 
with buttered peas or asparagus tips. The asparagus tips may be 
mixed with HoUandaise sauce. Note that the yolks of eggs only 
are used in egging and that the cutlets are not double-breaded. 

RISSOLES 

Rissoles are made by enclosing a croquette mixture in pastry and, 
after brushing the surface with beaten egg, frying in deep fat. 
Occasionally rissoles are baked instead of fried. The paste is 
preferably puS-paste; the trimmings of a vol-au-vent or patties 
are often so used. The pastry is rolled very thin, about one eighth 
of an inch thick to insure thorough cooking. The croquette mix- 
ture needs be cold and tbe pastry chilled. Put a teaspoonful of 
the chilled mixture on the crust in several places in a line, near the 
edge, and fold the pastry over mixtmre. Cut out half circles of 
paste with the mixture in the centre of each, using a fluted patty 
cutter for the purpose; lift the part of the paste folded over the 
mixture, brush Uie edge with water and press carefully in place 
again. Brush the entire siurface with beaten egg, and let cook 
until delicately colored. Serve on a folded napkin. 

KROMESKIS 

Kromeskis are made by enclosmg an oyster in a piece of bacon, 
or a croquette mixture, or even a solid piece of meat with a little 
forcemeat or stuflSng, in pork caul, then dipping in batter and fry- 
ing in deep fat. When croquette mixture, or meat with stuffing, 
is used, the outside protection needs be folded and secured most 



230 PRACTICAL COOBaNG AND SERVING 

carefully. The ends of an oyster or mushroom wrapped in bacon 
may be left open. Several kromeskis may be strung on a skewer, 
and, when fried and drained, pushed from it on to a folded napkin; 
or, if a silver skewer be used, they may be served on the skewer. 
Fritter batter, into which kromeskis are dipped before frying, is 
given on page 246. 

Ill 

SOUFFLES, MOUSSES, CREAM AND QUENELLE 
FORCEMEATS 

This division of made dishes has a counterpart in a similar 
division in sweet dishes, and, also, in vegetable dishes. The direc- 
tions given here for the preparation of meat and fish dishes will 
suffice for both the others. The foundation for all meat and fish 
dishes of this class is a paste, or pur6e of meat or fish, either cooked 
or uncooked. The paste or puree is lightened to a greater or less 
degree, according as it is a souffle, cream or quenelle forcemeat 
mixture, by the addition of eggs, cream, and sauces, one or all 
Of these preparations mousses and soufflfe are the lightest, and 
quenelles the most compact. Creams form the coimecting link 
between the two. 

SOUFFLES 

Souffles are the lightest form of made dishes: lightness is produced 
by the expansion of air when heated, the air being incorporated 
into eggs by beating. 

In a souM6, pure and simple, nothing is added to the eggs but 
salt or sugar and flavor, but, save in an omelet souffle, th^ are 
not found in savory dishes. Savory souffles are composed of: 

1. A sauce as foundation. 

2. A purge of fish, game, or meat, etc. 

3. Flavoring, as onion juice, lemon juice, mushroom catsup, or chopped 

mushrooms, chopped parsley, celery salt, or pepper. 

4. Lightening ingredients as eggs alone or eggs with bread cnunbs. 

The number of eggs and the thickness of the f ovmdation sauce, 
may vary greatly, £hus producing souffles of varying grades of 
consistency, as: two tablespoonfuls of flour and three eggs may be 
used with one half cup, one cup or one pint of liquid, and one half 
cup, one cup or one pint of meat or fish purfe, respectively. In 
case of the pint of meat and liquid, a half cup of fine bread crumbs 
needs be added to the sauce, 



CHICKEN SOUFFLE 



2.^1 



As these mktures in cooking rise to about double their bulk, 
the dish containing them should be half-filled, or a buttered paper 
band may be securely fastened around the dish to add to its height. 
The paper is removed before sending the dish to the table. When 
served as an entrfe, souffles are baked in individual dishes, or in 
well-oiled and dried paper cases. We give below three recipes: 
an oyster, chicken, lobster, or any other variety of souffle may be 
prepared by any one of these recipes, as preferred. Bake in a 
moderate oven or steam with water at a very gentle simmer. The 
time required in cooking is from twenty to thirty minutes, in in- 
dividual cases, ten to "fifteen minutes. The cooking is completed 
when the centre is firm. Prompt serving is necessary. Soufflfe 
are always served from the dish in which they are cooked. Serve 
with or without a sauce. Mushroom, Bechamel, tomato or white 
sauce are to be preferred. 

LOBSTER SOUFFLE 

2 tablespoonfuls of butter. i cup of lobster meat cut in cubes. 

2 tablespoonfuls of flour. Salt, cayenne, onion juice, parsley. 

I cup of milk, lobster or fish stock. Lemon juice. 

1 cup of very fine-chopped lobster 3 eggs. 

meat. 

OYSTER SOUFFLE 

2 tablespoonfuls of butter. 10 drops of onion juice. 
2 tablespoonfuls of flour. J teaspoonful of parsley, 
i cup of oyster liquor. Salt and paprika. 

J cup of oysters. 3 eggs. 

2 tablespoo;if uls of chopped mushrooms. 

Parboil the oysters, drain and cut in small pieces when cold. 
Strain the liquor and use with the butter and floiu: in making the 
sauce; add the seasoning, the yolks of the eggs beaten until very 
thick, and when cooked a little add the oysters, and fold in the 
whites beaten to a stiff froth. 

CHICKEN SOUFFLE 

2 tablespoonfuls of butter. Salt and paprika. 

2 tablespoonfuls of flour. Onion juice. 

I pint of milk or chicken stock or part Parsley. 

of each. Celery salt. 

i cup of fine bread crumbs. 3 ^SSS- 

' I pint of fine chopped chicken (cold}. 



3^2 PRACTICAL COOKING AND SERVING 

Make a sauce of the first three ingredients; add the bread crumbs, 
the chicken (cooked and chopped very fine), the yolks of eggs well 
beaten, and the seasoning; and lastly fold in the whites beaten 
until dry. 

For cheese souffle see "What May Be Done with Cheese," page 

347- 

FORCEMEAT 

Forcemeat is used in many of the choicest entries. It is used 
either alone or in combination with salpicon. When used alone 
it may be cooked in a border or cylindrical mould, in individual 
timbale moulds, or as quenelles. When combined in cooking with 
salpicon it may be used as the lining of a large mould, or of indi* 
vidual moulds, with a filling of salpicon. 

Of forcemeat there are two varieties, cream forcemeat, very del- 
icate in composition, and quenelle forcemeat, in which a bread or 
flour panada adds firmness to the preparation. Raw pulp of meat, 
or fish scraped from the fibre, pounded smooth in a mortar and 
passed through a pur6e sieve, is the foundation of the cream force- 
meat. The meat or fish pulp, prepared as before, mixed with 
panada, and passed a second time through the sieve, is the founda- 
tion of quenelle forcemeat. As the pulp must be forcibly pressed 
through the puree sieve, the sieve must stand very firmly. A sieve 
fitted tightly into the lower part of a double-boiler has proved a 
good arrangement for home use. The puree needs be scraped from 
time to time from the lower part of the sieve. 

CHICKEN CREAM FORCEMEAT (RANHOFER) 

^ pound of chicken (white meat). i pint of whipped cream or 

5 ounces of butter (i cup and 2 i pint of double cream, whipped. 

tablespoonfuls). Salt. 

I whole egg and Nutmeg. 

4 yolks of eggs or Pepper. 
4 whites of eggs. 

Scrape the flesh of the chicken from the fibre and pound it in a 
mortar to a smooth pulp, adding a little white of egg occasionally, 
to facilitate the process; return 3ie pulp to the mortar after sifting 
and pound into it, gradually, the butter and the eggs; add the 
aeasonmgs and set the mixture upon the ice. When dulled beat 
thoroughly and add to it slowly the whipped cream. Shape a littlf 



QtJENELLE FORCEMEAT aw 

of the forcemeat into a half-inch ball and poach nearly ten min- 
utes in water just " off the boil." If too firm add more cream. If 
not suflSciently consistent, add a little more egg. Dark meat of 
chicken, game, firm fish, turkey, or veal may be substituted for 
the chicken. 

CHICKEN FORCEMEAT WITH WHITE SAUCE 

Same as above, using three fourths cup of cold white sauce 
made with thin cream in the place of the cream. 

FISH CREAM FORCEMEAT (RANHOFER) 

I pound of boned and skinned bass The whites of two eggs. 
or other firm fish. 6 to 8 gills (3 to 4 cups) 

Salt, nutmeg and red pepper. of beaten cream. 

Pound the fish in a mortar, after running it through a meat 
chopper several times, or scrape the pulp from the fibre and pound 
it in a mortar; beat in gradually the whites of the eggs, pass tmrough 
a sieve and add the cream, beaten stiff, gradually. Poach a small 
ball and rectify as needed with cream or white of egg. 

QUENELLE FORCEMEAT (MALLOCK) 

8 02. (i cup) of meat or fish pur€e. i egg. 

4 oz. (i cup) of flour panada. i tablespoonful of cream. 

1 oz. (2 level tablespoonfuls) of butter. Salt and pepper. 

The puree is measured after pounding and sifting ; add the panada 
and continue pounding, adding, meanwhile, the other ingredients. 
This gives a very firm forcemeat 

QUENELLE FORCEMEAT, NO. 2 fDELICAT© 

X cap of raw meat or fish puree. i cup of butter. 

i cop Of panada. The whites of 3 eggs or 

(flour or bread). The yolks of 3 eggs. 

I cup of cream whipped. Salt and pepper. 

Prepare m the same manner as above, pressing throiigh the sieve 
a sec^ time before adding the cream. 



234 PRACTICAL COOKING AND SERVING 

FLOUR PANADA 

2 tablespoonfuls of butter. Few grains of salt. 

§ cup of boiling water. i egg. 

J cup of flour. (Makes i cup of panada.) 

Melt the butter in the boiling water; when again boiling stir iu 
the sifted flour and continue stirring until the mixture leaves the 
sides of the pan; let cook a few moments, keeping it in motion to 
avoid burning; remove from the fire and beat into it one raw egg; 
cover and cool before using. Makes one cup. 

BREAD PANADA 

Soak white bread, free from crust, in cold water to cover, until 
well softened. Then turn into a napkin and press out the water. 
Add milk or white stock. Cook and stir until a paste is formed 
that clings together and leaves the sides of the pan. Cook a few 
moments, then beat in one egg. 

TO MOULD AND COOK FORCEMEATS 

Butter the mould very thoroughly, ornament, if desired, with 
pieces of truffle, red beef tongue, haJf-cooked carrot, chq>ped ham, 
parsley, truffles, or sifted yolk of egg, or lobster coral, as is appro- 
priate. Fill the mould by means of a forcing bag and plain tube 
held inside and close to die surface. If a spoon be used, hit the 
mould sharply against the table several times while filling, to cause 
the mixture to settle evenly in the vessel, otherwise creases will 
appear to mar the appearance of the dish when cooked. If the 
forcemeat is to be used as a lining and the centre filled with a sal- 
picon, press the meat against the sides of the mould to a depth of 
about three eighths an inch for individual timbales, to a fuU inch 
for a large mould. Make the lining of a large mould considerably 
thicker near the top (which will be tjie bottom when inverted) to 
insure a firm foundation; fill the centre with salpicon and cover 
the top with forcemeat, making very smooth and even, that the 
timbale may stand even. Set the mould on a trivet or fold of paper 
In a dish fflled to half the height of the mould with water just "o£E 
the boil." Cook in the oven until the centre feels firm, from ten 
to fifteen minutes for a small mould and twenty to thirty minutei 
for a Urge mould. On no account should the water reach the 



CHICKEN TIMBALES 



235 



boiling point. Partially invert the mould on a cloth to drain oflE 
the liquid, then turn the contents on to a serving dish. While in- 
verting small moulds the timbale may be kept in place with a 
spatula. Large moulds need be handled very carefully; it is better 
to take up the liquid that drains from them on to the serving-dish 
than to run the risk of breaking the contents. 

VARIOUS STYLES OF MOULDINQ FORCEMEAT 

CHICKEN TIMBALES 

Fill the individual timbale moulds, decorated with diamond or 
crescent-shaped bits of truffle, with any of the chicken forcemeats, 
and poach as directed. Serve with mushroom. Bechamel or Alle- 
-mande sauce. 

CHICKEN TIMBALES, NO. 2 

Line a charlotte-russe mould, decorated with figures cut from 
carrot, white of hard-boiled egg and truffle, with forcemeat an inch 
thick, fill the centre with a thick sauce (double the usual quantity 
of flour and use thick cream in part as the liquid) mixed with small 
quenelles, cooked mushrooms, and dark meat of the chicken cut 
in cubes. An undecorated melon mould makes a well-shaped 
timbale. 

CHICKEN TIMBALES, NO. 3 

Cook the forcemeat in a round or oval border mould and fill the 
centre, when unmoulded, with the same salpicon as that used above 
in a thinner sauce, or with sweetbreads cut in cubes, chicken 
quenelles and chopped truffles mixed in a white or Bechamel sauce. 

CHICKEIM TIMBALES, NO. 4, MOULDS LINED WITH 
SPAGHETTI 

Cook full length pieces of spaghetti until tender in boiling salted 
water. Have the salted water boiling and carefully put one end 
of all the pieces into the water together; as the spaghetti becomes 
moist, it may be coiled around into the saucepan of water without 
breaking. Rinse carefully with cold water and dispose the pieces 
at full length on a cloth to cool. Thoroughly butter a mould. 
Moulds with slanting sides are more easily lined. Begin at the 
centre of the bottom and coil the spaghetti roimd and round, adding 



9.^6 PRACTICAL COOKING AND SERVING 

a little forcemeat, as a second lining, to hold the spaghetti in piace. 
Fill the centre with rings of cooked macaroni (macaroni cut in one 
f om:th inch pieces) or alphabet paste mixed with tomato sauce and 
cheese, or with cubes of sweetbread, chicken livers, mushrooms, or 
red tongue in a Bechamel sauce. (Note "To Mould and Cook 
Forcemeat," page 234.) Serve with tomato or Bechamel sauce, 

FISH TIMBALES 

Same as chicken timbales Nos. i, 2, and 3, substituting fish 
forcemeat for the chicken, and fish quenelles and oysters, cubes of 
lobster meat or picked shrimps, broken in pieces and added to white 
sauce made of fish and oyster or lobster stock and cream, for the 
garnish used with chicken. 

SHELLS OF CHICKEN OR FISH FORCEMEAT 

Press the forcemeat into well-buttered shells sprinkled with fine- 
chopped parsley, ham or truffles, for chicken, olives, pickles, capers 
or lobster coral, for fish forcemeats. Set the shells on several folds 
of paper, pour water aroimd them and poach in the oven about 
twenty minutes. With pastry bag and small plain tube press part 
of the forcemeat on to a buttered paper forming fluted oblongs 
about an inch in length (quenelles), spread the paper, quenelle 
side down, ia a saucepan of water just "off the boil" and let poach 
ten minutes. Skim from the water, and add, with small rounds 
cut from slices of cold boiled ham or dark meat of fowl, to a cup of 
yellow Bechamel sauce. Dress the shells, crown fashion, on a serv- 
ing-dish, with the sauce, quenelles, etc., in the centre. 

CHICKENS' LEGS AS CUTLETS WITH OLIVES 

Remove the tendons and bones from the legs of six young 
chickens, retaining, however, an inch and a half of the drumstick 
nearest the foot; season inside with salt, pepper, and fine herbsi 
then stuff with chicken quenelle forcemeat made of the breast of 
a part of the chicken. Sew with coarse thread leaving the legs in 
ehape. .Put them in a flat saucepan, season and let simmer until 
tender, barely covered with stock; let partly cool in the stock, 
then press under a weight. Remove the stitches and trim the legs 
neatly; egg-and-bread-crumb and fry in deep fat, or saut6, first on 
one side and then on the other, to a golden brown in melted butter. 




CHIPRrx CUTLETS, PARKER HOUSE ST\ LE 
(See ixiML- 229.) 




PRESSED CHICKEM. (See page 136.) 




CREAMED CORNED BEEF AU GRATIN. (Seepage 224-) 




POTATO FOR GARNISHING 

Mashed potato rosettes, boiled potato ball above sprinkled with chopped parsle 

Pyrainids of mashed potato, chopped parsley above. Rosettes grouped in 

shape of basket to hold a salpicon of meat or fish, parsley handl*. 

Fried lattice potato, also straw and balls 




SPATULA. PERFORATED WOODEN SPOON. FRENCH 
APPLE-TREE SPOON FOR CHAFING-DISH COOKERY 




BAKED POTATOES IN THE HALF SHEL^ (See page 266.J 



CUTLETS OF BEEF FORCEMEAT 237 

After draining on soft paper, put a frill on the end of each bone, 
dispose in a circle on a hot dish and fill the centre with stoned olives, 
filled with chicken forcemeat and poached. The olives may be 
stoned, the forcemeat omitted, and the dish heated in water brought 
nearly to the boiling point. Serve with white sauce, seasoned with 
lemon juice and fine-chopped parsley. 

GAME OR DARK FORCEMEAT WITH MUSHROOMS 

i pound of game meat or dark | cup of Bechamel sauce, 

meat of fowl. § cup of mushroom purfc. 

The white of i egg. 

Chop a pound of fresh mushrooms, cook in butter, until the 
moisture has evaporated, and pound with one third the quantity 
of thick Bechamel; let cool and mix in gradually to the pulp in the 
mortar, poimding meanwhile: pass through the sieve and rectify 
if needed with cream or white of egg. 

CUTLETS OF BEEF FORCEMEAT. MACARONI RAGOUT 

t Ih. of raw lean fillet of beef. 2 tablespoonfuls of butter. 

i lb. of lean cooked ham or pickled J teaspoonful of salt. 

tongue. J teaspoonful of paprika. 

4 ounces of panada. 3 raw eggs. 

2 tablespoonfuls of thick brown sauce. 

With a pestle pound the raw and cooked meat in a mortar; add 
the panada, sauce and butter, and poimd again; then, when thor- 
oughly blended, add the seasoning and eggs and pound and mix 
once more; then press through a puree sieve, scraping the mixture 
from the under side of the sieve. With pastry bag and tube press 
the forcemeat into small well-buttered cutlet tins (fifteen wHl be 
needed) and smooth the surface with a knife wet in boiling water. 
Set the moulds on folds of paper or a trivet, in a shallow baking 
pan, add water at the boiling point to cover the bottom of the 
moulds and poach in the oven about twenty minutes. Unmould 
and dispose on a border of hot mashed potato, first masking alter- 
nate cutlets by dipping them in hot and well-reduced tomato sauce. 
Fill the centre with macaroni ragout and sprinkle with fine-chopped 
parsley. 



238 PRACTICAL COOKING AND SERVING 

MACARONI RAGOUT 

Reheat a cup of cooked macaroni, half cup of cooked ham or 
tongue, cut in juliennes, and a dozen cooked mushroom caps in a 
rich tomato sauce. 

SUPREME OF BEEF TENDERLOIN. (ADOLPHE MEYER) 

I pound of beef tenderloin. i whole egg. 

li cups of panada. Nutmeg, salt, paprika, 

li cups of butter. i cup of brown sauce. 

I cup of well-reduced brown sauce. Marrow. Mushrooms. 

3 yolks of eggs. Sweet red peppers. 

Scrape the beef from the fibres, then pound in a mortar, adding 
while pounding the panada, butter, and reduced brown sauce; add 
the seasonings and the eggs, then pass through a fine sieve; set on 
ice and beat into it the second cup of sauce. With this forcemeat 
line buttered timbale moulds and fillthe hollow centres with sal- 
picon of marrow, mushrooms and peppers, cut in small squares, 
after cooking, and mixed with thick brown sauce ; cover the top with 
a layer of the forcemeat, place the moulds on several folds of paper, 
in a dish of hot water, and cook in a slow oven about fifteen minutes. 
Unmould and serve with Spanish sauce. Poach the marrow, 
saut6 and cook the mushrooms, and parboil the peppers before 
cutting them for the sauce. Test the forcemeat and rectify with 
sauce, or eggs, as needed before lining the moulds. 

The mixtures for the four following dishes, on account of their 
consistency and manner of preparation, do not belong to this class. 
They are much more easily prepared than forcemeat preparations 
and, while they do not possess the smoothness and delicacy of these 
almost classical dishes, they are to be recommended. Any firm fish 
may take the place of the chicken. 

CHICKEN TIMBALES. (MRS. McEWEN, OHIO) 

The breasts of 2 raw chickens. A grating of nutmeg. 

I teaspoonful of salt. The whites of three eggs. 

A dash of white pepper. 1 pint of cream. 

Pass the chicken breasts five or six times through a meat chopper; 
add the seasoning and beat into the mixture, one at a time, the 
cnbeaten whites of the eggs, and then very gradually the cream 



CHICKEN TIMBALES 239 

Have small timbale moulds well buttered; then put in place round 
bits of paper, cut to fit the bottom of the mould, and butter again; 
the moulds should be filled to two thirds of their height, cook as 
all mixtures on a trivet or folded paper, to lift them from the 
bottom of the dish in which they stand surrounded by hot water. 
Serve, tiurned from the mexilds and surrounded with a pint of white 
sauce, in which a cup of chopped or quartered mushrooms has 
been simmering. 

SUPREME OF CHICKEN, (MISS WILLIAMS, BOSTON) 

Breast of one raw chicken (i cup), i pint of cream. 
4 eggs. Salt and pepper. 

Chop the chicken breast fine in a meat chopper; add an egg and 
beat until smooth, then add the rest of the eggs one at a time, 
and the cream, beating the mixture after each addition untQ 
smooth; season with nearly three fourths teaspoonful of salt 
and a dash of white pepper. Butter twelve small dariole 
moulds and ornament them with truffles; fill with the mixture, 
cover with buttered paper and poach about twenty minutes. 
(See general directions for poaching forcemeat, page 234.) Serve 
with Bechamel sauce. 

CHICKEN TIMBALES. COOKED MEAT (MRS. ELLIOTT 
RUSSELL, BOSTON) 

1 pint of cold cooked chicken 1 tablespoonful of chopped pars- 

diopped fine. ley 

a tablespoonfuls of butter. Salt and pepper. 

2 tablespoonfuls of bread crumbs. 2 eggs, beaten without separating. 

J cup of chicken stock. 
Mdt the butter, add the bread crumbs, then the stock; let boU, 
then add the chicken, parsley, salt and pepper, and the eggs. Bake 
in buttered timbale moulds, filled to two thirds their height, twenty 
minutes. Let the mcfulds stand while cooking on a trivet or thick 
fold of paper. Served with the following: 

SAUCE 

4 tablespoonfuls of butter. i sprig of parsley. 

r tablespoonful, each, of chopped 4 tablespoonfuls of flour. 

onion and carrot. i pint of stock. 

I bay Ickf . Salt and pepper. 



240 PRACTICAL COOKING AND SERVING 

Cook the onion, carrot, bay leaf and parsley in the butter ten 
minutes and add the flour, salt, and pepper; when frothy add the 
stock gradually, and let simmer ten minutes after all the stock is 
added; strain around the timbales. 

ROMAN PUDDING 

Line a buttered mould with boiled macaroni. The large fluted 
macaroni, cut in rings and strips, gives an ornamental mould. 
Cook one fourth cup of bread cnunbs in three fourths cup of 
milk; add two tablespoonfuls of butter, a cup of cold chicken 
chopped fine, two tablespoonfuls of chopped ham, and one table- 
spoonful of fine-chopped green pepper, salt, pepper, and onion juice 
to taste, and two well-beaten eggs; turn into the buttered mould 
and bake standing in a pan of water until firm. Serve with 
tomato or brown sauce, flavored with a few gratings of horseradish 
and a teaspoonf ul of lemon juice. Serve a few bits of macaroni in 
the sauce. 

MOUSSE OR MOUSSELINE 

The form of forcemeat called mousse is made very delicate by 
the use of a large quantity of whipped cream. On account of its 
delicacy it is usually cooked in small moulds called mousse and 
sometimes bomb moulds. The bottoms of these moulds are of such 
a shape that in use they need be set in timbale moulds. The mix- 
ture is also poached in buttered rings standing on heavy buttered 
paper, or in heart-shaped bottomless moulds, made of half-inch 
bands of tin about three inches long, standing on buttered paper. 

FORCEMEAT FOR MOUSSE OR MOUSSELINE 

I pound of chicken, white meat. J cup of cream forcemeat. 
The white of one egg. i quart of whipped cream. 

I cup of Bechamel sauce. Salt, red pepper and mace. 

The cream is measured after whipping and draining. Prepare 
ajid rectify as other forcemeat. 

QUAIL MOUSSELINE 

Substitute quail for chicken in the recipe given above and cook 
in moulds decorated with pistachio nuts and truffles. Serve with 
Bechamel or cream sauce, to which chopped truffles have been 
added. 



FILLETS OF BEEF WITH MARROW 241 

PALMETTES 

Poach a chicken mousse preparation in buttered palmette moulds 
set on folded paper less than ten minutes; drain, egg-and-bread- 
crumb and fry in deep fat. Drain on soft paper. Serve with 
green peas or asparagus tips, or a delicate sauce. Quenelle force- 
meat and cream forcemeat, half and half, may be used for this dish. 
Palmettes so made are more easily handled than those made from 
a mousse mixture. 

IV 

HOT DISHES COMPOSED OF SMALL PIECES OF SOLID 
MEAT, AS BONED CUTLETS AND SUPRSmES 

This class of meat and fish dishes calls for neatness and accuracy 
in treatment. To insure success one should possess accuracy of 
eye and a steady hand combined with experience. The dealer is 
usually quite well satisfied, if he cuts chops of about the same 
thickness: and he could not be trusted to fillet the breast of a 
chicken. If this or similar work be required, it needs be done at 
home and time allotted to it. 

Dishes of this class are favored for entrees or for Ivmcheon dishes. 
When neatly fashioned, dressed crown shape or in straight rowsj 
one overlapping another, with an appropriate accompaniment of 
puree, small vegetables, sauce or salpicon, they present a sightly 
appearance. Chops served unboned, though treated similarly, are 
not included in this division on account of the presence of bone. 
, Among the materials thus used the most important are fillets of 
fish, which are fully treated in the chapter on fish, the fillet of beef, 
the "best end of tie loin" of lamb, mutton or veal, a slice of veal 
from the fillet, the breast of fowl or birds, removed according to 
directions given on page 154, sweetbreads, calf's liver and brains. 

FILLET OF BEEF 

The fillet of beef is cut into individual fillets, crosswise the grain 
of the meat into grenadins, minions, noisettes, paupiettes, etc. In 
trimming the fillet, before cutting into any of these shapes — 
everything but solid meat is removed — i.e., all skin and fat. 

FILLETS OF BEEF WITH MARROW 

Have eight or ten pieces nearly one inch thick cut from a fillet 
of beef; broil as any steak, or saute in a very little hot butter six 



242 PRACTICAL COOKING AND SERVING 

or eight minutes; the fillets should be left quite rare. Split two 
marrow bones, take out the marrow whole and cut in as many slices 
as fillets; let stand an hour in cold water, then place in boiling 
salted water and let stand ten minutes without boiling. Pour a 
brown sauce, well flavored, on the serving dish, arrange the fillets 
upon this, season with salt and pepper and dispose a sUce of mar- 
row upon each fillet. 

QRENADINS OF TENDERLOIN, BEAUMARCHAIS STYLE 

Cut lengthwise from a well-trimmed tenderloin of beef half- 
heart-shaped pieces, five by two and one half inches, and half an 
inch thick. Beat these lightly with a web cutlet bat, and with a 
sharp knife trim neatly to an exact pattern laid on the meat. Lard 
on one side with rows of firie lardoons, season with salt and pepper, 
and saut6 in oil or clarified butter four minutes on the larded side 
and the same length of time on the other. For plain grenadins, 
remove from the pan and serve with clear beef gravy (standard 
broth) poured over them. To serve Beaumarchais style, drain ofif 
or add to the butter in the pan as needed, add a teaspoonful or more 
of fine-chopped, blanched and drained shallot, and saute without 
coloring; add flour, stock, and seasoning as needed, also egg yolks 
and lemon juice, and strain on to a serving dish: sprinkle with fine- 
chopped parsley and arrange the grenadins above, one overlapping 
another, straight down the dish, surround with croustades, equal to 
the number of grenadins, filled with mushrooms stewed in cream. 

MINIONS OF BEEF TENDERLOIN 

Cut a well-trimmed fillet of beef into slices, each weighing about 
five ounces; with a wet cutlet bat or bread knife beat ttiem lightly 
to the same thickness, then lay a pattern on each and with a sharp 
knife cut into perfect rounds; dip these in oil or melted butter and 
broil over a moderate fire from six to ten minutes, as they are to be 
cooked rare or well done. Dress on a hot dish and pour clear gravy 
over them. 

MINIONS OF BEEF A LA DUMAS 

Prepare and cook as above and lay each on a round slice of 
cooked beef tongue (unsmoked). Let the slices of tongue be less 
than half an inch thick and of the same diameter as the minions. 
Heat an equal quantity of onion pur& and white sauce made with 



PAUPIETTES OF BEEF TENDERLOIN 243 

stock and thicken with egg yolks diluted with cream. Cover the 
mmions with the sauce — which should be thick — spread with 
bread crumbs and grated Parmesan cheese mixed with melted 
butter and brown in a very hot oven. Garnish the serving-dish 
with tiny crescent-shaped, ham and mushroom croquettes (see 
Croquettes, page 227), In the croquettes use equal weights of 
ham and mushrooms and do not chop too fine. One fourth 
pound of each ingredient with sauce in proportion will be enough 
to garnish a large dish. 

MINIONS OF BEEF TENDERLOIN WITH CHESTNUTS 

Cook the minions as above; dress on a bread croustade. Sur- 
round the minions, or fill the centre, according as the minions are 
arranged, with shelled, blanched, and cooked whole chestnuts. 
To cook the chestnuts, let simmer until tender in broth with a stalk 
of celery. Reduce the broth to serve with the dish, thickening it 
if desired. 

NOISETTES OF BEEF TENDERLOIN 

Noisettes differ from minions of tenderloin simply in size, they 
should weigh about three ounces. Broiled or sauted, they are 
appropriately served with mushroom puree, saut6d potato balls 
sprinkifed with parsley or with potatoes a la maltre d'hdtel (see 
page 266), or with fritters or croquettes of beef marrow and mush- 
rooms. 

PAUPIETTES OF BEEF TENDERLOIN 

From a well-trimmed tenderloin cut lengthwise slices five by 
two and one fourth inches and less than one fourth an inch in 
thickness; beat lightly and trim evenly; season with salt, pepper, 
and mace, and cover oneside with a layer of cooked fine herbs aidded 
to half-glaze and half-sauce and thickened by simmering. (See 
Cooked Fine Herbs, page 21.) Roll the paupiettes into cylindrical 
forms; roU again in a shaving of fat salt pork, tie in shape and lay 
side by side in a frying-pan; add stock to half their height and let 
simmer imtil the liquid is evaporated; add more stock and finish 
cooking in a moderate oven. When tender, remove the strings 
and pork, strain and skim the fat from the stock, thicken with a 
brown roux and serve, poured over the paupiettes or separately. 
Slices cut from a fillet of veal may be prepared in the same manner. 



244 PRACTICAL COOKING AND SERVING 

BEST END OF THE LOIN OF LAMB, ETC. 

This piece of meat corresponds to that part of the sirloin of beef 
in whidi the tenderloin is found. When this cut is to be served, 
either in hot or cold dishes, separated into uniform pieces free from 
bone and fat, the pieces can be given a more exact and uniform 
size and shape, if the bones be removed first of all. The section 
of back or chine-bone and the bone connected with this and at 
right angles to it may be removed in one piece, then the meat can 
be sliced into cutlets, or chops, of the same thickness, then trimmed 
and skewered to the same shape. These boned cutlets may be 
broiled, or braised, and finished in accordance with any of the 
recipes given for fillets of beef. They may also be used for medal- 
lions or rounds of meat. 

VEAL ROLLS A LA JARDINIl^RE 

Cut veal from the leg in very thin slices. With a wooden mallet 
pound the slices to one fourth an inch in thickness, cut in pieces three 
by five inches, and chop the trimmings with one eighth as much of 
bacon or fat salt pork. Add half as much, by measiu-e, of fresh 
bread crumbs as meat, season with onion juice, paprika, lemon 
juice, salt, and the stems of a dozen mushrooms chopped and saute 
in butter. Add a beaten egg and stock, or water, to make the whole 
as moist as possible and still hold its shape. Spread each slice 
with the forcemeat nearly to the edge, roll tightly, and tie or fasten 
with small buttered skewers,. Shape the remaining mixture into 
balls. Dredge both rolls and balls with salt, pepper, and flour, and 
saute to a light brown in hot bacon fat or butter. Half cover with 
stock, or thin cream, and let simmer about forty-five minutes, or 
until tender. Meanwhile boil a cauliflower and peas; saute a dozen 
mushroom caps, wiped and peeled, and cook them ten minutes in 
a little cream. Dispose the rolls upon a serving-dish, the vege- 
tables and balls around. Mix the cream in which the mushrooms 
were cooked with the liquid in the pan, thicken if desired with roux 
or meuniere, and strain into a sauce boat. The yolk of beaten egg, 
diluted with one fourth cup of cream, or with a tablespoonful of 
butter and a little lemon juice, may be added if desired. 

FILLETS OF CHICKEN OR GAME 

Directions for the removal of fillets of fowl or birds were given 
on page 154. The fowl from which fillets are to be taken needs 
be plump and full-grown but young. 



FHXETS OF CmCELEN WITH IPORCEMEAT 245 
FILLETS OF CHICKEN, PLAIN 

Lay the fillets, aJl cut the size of the small fillet, side by side on 
a buttered baking pan; pour in a very little stodi, cover tightly 
with an oiled paper, and cook in a rather hot oven about ten min- 
utes. Serve, one overlapping another, crown-shaped, or straight 
down the dish. Asparagus tips make an appropriate garnish. 
Serve Bechamel sauce apart. 

FILLETS OF CHICKEN WITH TONGUE ESCALLOPS 

Cut the large fillets of one or two plmnp chickens into fillets, the 
shape and size of the small fillet, and cook as above. Poach a ring 
of chicken quenelle forcemeat in a narrow border mould, concave 
on the top. Cut some escallops of cooked red beef tongue, the size 
of the fillets, and heat them in a little broth. Dress the fillets, the 
pointed ends uppermost and covered with paper frills, and the 
escallops alternately on the crown of forcemeat. Fill the centre 
with green peas, held together in cream or Bechamel sauce. To 
make the dish more elaborate, cut slantwise five parallel incisions 
down the centre of each fillet, having the cuts equidistant from one 
another, and into each of these press a round slice of trxiffle; cut the 
exposed edge of the truffle in points or leave plain. 

FILLETS OF CHICKEN WITH FORCEMEAT 

(an entree made from one chicken to serve eight) 

Remove the fillets with care, to avoid separating the mignon and 
large fillets. Cut each side lengthwise into four fillets; bat each to 
a uniform thickness with a broad knife wet in cold water, dispose 
in a buttered agate pan, sprinkle with lemon juice, salt, and pepper; 
cover with a buttered paper and cook about five minutes m a 
moderate oven, then press under a light weight until cold. Free 
the meat, taken from the first and second joints, of skin and sinew. 
To each half pound of meat add four ounces of panada, one oimce 
of butter, salt and white pepper, and pound in a mortar to a smooth 
paste, adding meanwhile two raw eggs. When well blended press 
through a sieve. Spread this to the depth of half an inch over the 
fillets, smooth the tops and edges with a knife wet in hot water, 
and trim the fillets into shape if needed; put into a buttered sauti 
pan, add two tablespoonf uls of sherry wine and set into the oven for 
about fifteen minutes or until firm to the touch. Dispose the fillets 



246 PRACTICAL COOKING AND SERVING 

on a border of forcemeat or potato and fill the centre with a ragout 
of button mushrooms and chicken quenelles, or of peas or as- 
paragus in a rich sauce. 

FILLETS OF CHICKEN WITH MUSHROOMS 

Remove the fillets from two chickens, separating them into large 
and mignon fillets; remove the membrane from the large fillets and 
the tendons from the mignon or small fillets and trim neatly. Cut 
transverse slits in the upper side of each fillet and, in the larger, 
insert slices of truffle stamped into rounds with the lower edge 
fringed, and tiny strips of truffle, in the smaller fillets. Smoked 
and cooked beef tongue may be used in the place of the truffles. 
Brush the fillets with beaten white of egg and dispose in a buttered 
agate baking-pan; turn in a few spoonfuls of rich broth or wine and 
cook about fifteen minutes covered closely with a buttered paper. 
Sprinkle the fillets with a little salt before brushing with the egg, 
Dispose around a socle of fried bread. Garnish the top with heart 
leaves of lettuce and surround the base with a veloute sauce to 
which the trimmings of the truffles, chopped fine, and eight medium- 
sized mushroom caps sauted in butter have been added. 

For sweetbreads, calf's liver, and brains, which are included in 
this division, see the chapter on veal, page 131. 

COLD COOKED MEAT FRIED IN BATTER 

Tender, cold cooked meat of any kind may be trimmed into pieces 
of imiform shape and size, dipped in Villeroi sauce, and when cold 
egg-and-bread-cnmibed and fried in deep fat. Fritter batter may 
take the place of the sauce and egg-and-bread-crumbing. "Cooked 
fine herbs," or a croquette mixture, is often spread upon one side 
after shaping. Cold roast turkey and chicken are excellent pre- 
pared by this recipe. 

FRITTER BATTER 

The yolks of 2 eggs. i teaspoonful of salt. 

J cup of milk. 2 teaspoonfuls of olive oil. 

I cup of flour. The whites of 2 eggs. 

Beat the yolks, add the milk gradually and stir little by little 
into the flour and salt sifted together; add the oU and set aside 
several hours. When ready to use add the whites of the eggs beaten 
stiff. 



ASPIC JELLY 247 

BATTER FOR SWEDISH TIMBALE CASES 

J cup of flour. I egg, or two yolks. 

§ teaspoonful of salt. J cup of milk. 

Prepare as above, except beat the egg without separating. If 
the cases lack in crispness and are thick and soft, more milk is 
needed; when right the case is very thin, delicate, and crisp. For 
notes on fritter batter, see fritters under desserts. 

TO MAKE FRITTER CASES- SWEDISH TIMBALE CASES — 
FOR SALPICON MIXTURES 

Plain and fluted irons of various shapes, mounted on a long 
handle, are used for shaping Swedish timbale cases. To use, dip 
the iron into the hot fat, let stand two or three minutes, then drain 
and dip into the batter — held in a small cup — to half an inch of 
the top of the iron; retmrn at once to the fat and hold there until 
the batter is crisp and lightly colored, then remove from the iron 
and turn upside down on soft paper to drain. If, on dipping the 
iron into the batter, the batter does not cling to it, the iron has not 
been heated enough. If the fat sizzles considerably, and the case 
spreads out and drops from the iron, the mould is too hot. If the 
iron be lowered too far into the batter, the case will spread over 
the top of the iron and be troublesome to remove. The jSnished 
cases should be very thin, delicate, and crisp. With experience 
these are very easily made. They may be purchased at a caterer's, 
as also a pressed croustade or case made of a similar batter, but 
without frying. For salpicon to serve in these cases, (see page 223). 



COLD ENTREES, AS ASPICS, CHAUDFROIDS, 
MOUSSES, ETC. 

Probably the handsomest .dishes, in all cookery, are those which 
come under the head of cold entrees. Especially is this the case 
when aspic jelly enters into the composition of the dish and fresh 
vegetable salads lend their presence to the garniture of the same. 

ASPIC JELLY 

Aspic b a transparent jelly made of stock or standard broth 
clarified and variously flavored, Cwisomna^ m^de by the redpe 



248 PRACTICAL COOKING AND SERVING 

given on page 179 gives a foundation for one of the best of aspic 
jellies, but any of the standard broths, meat or fish, either alone or 
in suitable combinations, may be used. Chicken or veal stock 
alone gives a very delicately tinted aspic. To each five cups of 
any of these liquids needs be added two ounces of gelatine, softened 
in a cup of cold water and such additional flavoring as is desired. 
The whole is then clarified with white of eggs or raw meat, one or 
both. (See Clearing of Soup Stock, page 1 76.) Where transparency 
is no object, as when aspic is used in creams, or when it is added to 
mayonnaise or other sauce, any uncleared standard broth answers 
every purpose. In these cases two ounces of gelatine should be 
allowed for each five cups of stock and cream or sauce used in the 
composition of the dish. The natural color of aspic jelly is often 
heightened, and for fish and salads it is tinted a delicate green. 
When the consomm6 has been already finished and cleared for the 
table, it may be transformed into aspic jelly simply by the addition 
of the gelatine. As: 

RECIPE FOR ASPIC JELLY 

5 cups of cleared consomin£. i cup of cold water. 

2 ounces of gelatine. 

Let the gelatine stand in the cold water until thoroughly softened 
(a granulated or pulverized gelatine dissolves in a very few 
minutes), heat the consomme and pour over the gelatine, strain 
and it is ready for use. 

ASPIC JELLY WITH BEEF EXTRACT 

i cup of chopped onion. 2 sprigs of parsley. 

i cup of chopped carrot. 3 tablespocmfuls of tarragon vinegar^ 

2 tablespoonfuls of butter. i quart of water. 

2 stalks of celery. 3 teaspoonfuls of beef extract. 
i cup of mushroom 2 cups of boiling water. 

trimmings. 2 ounces of gelatine. 

1 bay leaf. The yellow rind of a lemon. 

6 peppercorns or i cup of cold water. 

A piece of red pepper. The white and shell of 1 egg. 

3 cloves. 

Cook the onion, carrot, celery, mushroom trimmings, bay leaf, 
and parsley in the butter; add the pepper, doves, vinegar, lemon 



TO MOULD ASPIC JELLY 249 

rind, and quart of water; let gimmer very gently an hour and strain 
over the beef extract dissolved in the hot water, then add the gela- 
tine softened in the cold water, and when cooled, the white of egg 
slightly beaten and the crushed shell (more shells are of advantage). 
Bring the liquid slowly to the boiling point, stirring constantly 
meanwhile; let boil three minutes, then remove to a cooler part of 
the range to simmer fifteen minutes; skim carefully, then strain 
through double folds of cheesecloth laid inside a colander or 
strainer. The flavor of tarragon vinegar is often disliked. 

WAYS OF USING ASPIC JELLY 

Aspic jelly may be: 

1. Cut into separate or distinct pieces, either fine or coarse, 
called chopped aspic. These may be used to surround a dish of 
cold meat cut in slices, or piled like a rosette on slices of cold meat 
or, if cut fine, put on to the article as "piping." 

2. It may be moulded in half-inch sheets and stamped out with 
fanciful-shaped cutters, dipped in hot water, or moulded in thicker 
sheets and cut with a knife, dipped in hot water, into pyramids, 
triangles, blocks, etc. Thus cut it is used to garnish large objects 
moulded in aspic. 

3. Aspic jelly is moulded either plain or decorated with capers, 
bits of cooked white of egg and truffles, leaves of parsley or cress, 
in fanciful-shaped moulds, to garnish large objects moulded in 
aspic. 

4. It is used to line moulds the centres of which are to be filled 
with salads, mousses, creams, etc., stiffened with gelatine or aspic. 

5. To hold up and siurround pieces of fish, meat, etc., or whole 
objects, as boned and stuffed birds and fowl. 

6. To coat with a glossy siuiace objects, or pieces of fish, meat, 
etc., covered with a mixture of sauce and aspic, called chaudfroids. 

TO MOULD ASPIC JELLY 

For use in the first two ways, turn the liquid when cold, but be- 
fore it begins to set, into perfectly dean and chilled pans of a size 
the required thickness demands. Always be careful that any dish 
containing aspic stands perfectly level. 

For use in the third way, simply pour the cooled aspic into the 
chilled moulds, unless the moulds are to be decorateid. In this 
latter case, turn the chilled mould with a tablespoonful — less or 



250 PRACTICAL COOKING AND SERVING 

more, according to the size of the mould — of chilled aspic round 
and round until the surface is lightly coated; set in ice and water 
until firm enough to keep in place, then arrange upon it the dec- 
orations, a,dding a drop of aspic to each, to hold it in place. Let 
the chilled but liquid aspic stand, meanwhile, in a saucepan of luke- 
warm water, in order to keep it in the right condition to use. After 
the decoration is firmly set, cover with more aspic, and when that 
is set, add a stoned or stuffed olive or any trifle that is desired; keep 
this in place with a drop or two of aspic and then gradually fill the 
mould. The same method is employed when the aspic is used for 
the fifth purpose. 

When the aspic is used to line a mould to the depth of half an 
inch or more, two moulds of the same shape, one larger than the 
other, are needed. Charlotte moulds are the style most often 
used. This is called double moulding. 

DOUBLE MOULDING 

Select two moulds similar in shape, one an inch or more larger 
than the other. Set the larger mould in a pan of ice and water, 
pour in liquid jelly to the depth of an inch and, when chilled and 
firm, place the smaller mould filled Avith ice upon the jelly and 
exactly in the centre; add water to the ice, then fill the outside 
mould with the liquid jelly; let stand until firm, then dip out the 
ice and water from the inner mould, replace with warm water and 
at once Uft out the smaller mould; fill the open space to within an 
inch of the top with the salad mixture, cream or mousse prepara- 
tion, or whatever is desired, and when this is firm cover with 
liquid aspic. 

TO UNMOULD ASPIC OR OTHER JELLIES, ETC. 

Immerse the mould to the height of the contents in warm — not 
hot — water; with a pointed knife loosen if necessary the jelly at 
the upper edge, turning the mould meanwhile from side to side, to 
make sure that the jelly has separated from the sides; then invert 
on the serving-dish and carefully lift the mould. 

A delicate jelly cannot be easily moved after it has fallen from 
the mould, and care should be exercised, at first, to place it evenly 
in the centre of the dish. If unmoulded on a lace or dish paper, 
the jelly may be moved on the paper. To change the position on a 
dish, when no paper has been used, carefully replace the mould over 



CHICKEN CUTLETS WITH CRESS SALADS 351 

the mixture, then invert both together and separate the jelly from 
the dish with a spatula. 

TO COAT CHAUDFROIDS WITH ASPIC JELLY 

If the object covered with chaudfroid sauce be small, hold it on 
a broad knife-blade and pour the liquid aspic over it. A large 
object may be set on a meat rack over a large dish. The aspic 
may be put on with a brush; a spoon, however, is usually preferable. 

TOMATO JELLY 

Tomato jelly is not a clear, transparent, sparkling jelly like aspic; 
but it looks and tastes well and is easily made. Being opaque, 
it is used as a garnish rather than as a vehicle for holding other 
articles. 

RECIPE FOR TOMATO JELLY 

2I cups of cooked tomatoes. A piece of a red pepper pod or a few 

A slice of onion. drops of tabasco sauce. 

A stalk of celery. I cup or more or mushroom parings. 

A bit of bay leaf. i box (i ounce) of gelatine. 

2 cloves. I cup of cold water. 

i teaspoonful of salt. 

Cook the tomatoes (canned tomatoes are usually thus used) 
with all the ingredients, except the last two, fifteen minutes; add 
thr gelatine, softened in the cold water and stir until the 
gelatine is dissolved, then strain and mould. If bright-colored 
jelly be desired, strain through a sieve just fine enough to hold back 
the seeds. , A less dense and lighter-colored jelly results, when 
ike mixture is strained slowly tiirough a cheesecloth. 

RECIPES 

CHICKEN CUTLETS WITH CRESS SALAD 

Chill a thin layer of aspic jelly in cutlet moulds; decorate with 
figures, cut from cooked white of egg, and olives or pickles. Sprinkle 
with sifted yolk of egg and cover with aspic. When firm, put in a 
layer of cold cooked chicken and ham sliced very thin, and cover 
with more aspic. When cold turn from the moulds agamst a 



252 FRACnCAL CCX)KING AND SERVING 

mound of water-cress dressed with French dressing (see page 320). 
Garnish the top of the moimd with mayonnaise and pass mayon- 
naise separately. 

TONGUE MOULDED IN ASPIC JELLY 

For this dish a fresh tongue may be used, but a pickled tongue is 
preferable. Boil or braise the tongue until very tender (see page 
119). Remove the skin and return the tongue to the liquid in 
which it was cooked to cool partly, then cover and set aside imtil 
cold and ready to use. Trim off the unedible portion of the tongue, 
and remove any globules of fat that may have settled upon it, cut 
in slices of imiform thickness, and trim these into rounds. Select 
rounds of the same size for lining the mould, and use the others for 
filling. Prepare enough aspic jelly to fill the mould without regard 
to the other articles to be used; this is a safe plan to follow in nearly 
all cases. Wipe the slices of pickle dry before dipping them in the 
jelly. In filling the mould do not use the aspic in which the tongue 
and pickle have been dipped, as it will be more or less cloudy after 
use. Avoid having one layer of material set too solid before another 
is added or the molded form will separate at this place when turned 
out. If the jelly be in the right condition, the tongue and other 
materials chilled and the mould set in ice and water, the filling of 
the mould may be an almost continuous operation. Chill an eighth 
of an inch of jelly in the bottom of the mould and set in ice and 
water. When nearly firm dispose on this a ring of slices of hard- 
boiled egg with a slice of the same in the centre of the ring, and 
add a few drops of jelly to each, which when set will hold the slice 
in place. Against the sides and close to the bottom of the mould 
dispose a ring of slices of cucumber pickle, one overlapping another. 
Dip each slice in liquid aspic before pressing it against tiic side of 
the mould. When these are firmly fixed in place, fill the mould 
to nearly same height with slices of tongue and pour in jelly to fill 
up the space between the slices. Above the slices of pickle arrange 
a circle with slices of tongue, one sHce overlapping another, in direc- 
tion opposite to that in which the pickle slices overlap, and fill the 
centre with slices of tongue, pickles, and capers, if desired, covering 
each, as added, with jelly. Finish lining and filling the mould in 
the same maimer. Let stand some hours on ice, if convenient. 
When turned from the mould garnish with cress and lengthwise 
quarters of hard-boiled eggs. 



BONED QUAE. IN ASPIC JELLY 253 

TIMBALES OF HAM IN CHICKEN ASPIC 

Pound two cups of boiled ham, chopped fine in a meat cutter, 
and four tablespoonfuls of mayonnaise dressing to a smooth paste; 
gradually stir into this a cup and a quarter of chicken aspic, just 
on the point of "setting." Chicken liquor flavored with vege- 
tables, herbs, and spices, in which half an ounce of gelatine has been 
dissolved, answers every purpose in this case. Have ready stand- 
ing in ice water timbale moulds, decorated with lengthwise slices 
of olives, and above either sifted yolk or fine-chopped white of 
hard-boiled eggs, mixed with enough liquid jelly to hold the egg 
together. Pour this mixture into the moulds, to make an even 
layer of the same height in each, then fiU the moulds with the liquid 
ham mixture. Serve turned from the moulds on a bed of heart 
leaves of lettuce, sprinkled with shreds of olives, red chilies, or 
shreds of cooked sweet pepper and tiny strips of cooked ham or 
bacon, dressed with French dressing. 

TIMBALES OF LOBSTER IN ASPIC 

Decorate the bottom and sides of individual timbale moulds with 
slices of cucumber pickle and large capers, set in a little liquid aspic. 
When nearly set fill the moulds with lobster, cut in cubes and mix 
with liquid mayonnaise aspic (see page 216). Serve with lettuce 
leaves seasoned with French dressing. 

BONED QUAILS IN ASPIC JELLY 

6 boned quails. 2 ounces of foie gras. 

I cup of cooked chicken breast or J cup of tomato sauce. 

meat from quails. i cup of liqmd aspic. 
6 mushrooms. 

Wipe the boned quails inside and out, and put into the body of 
each a cylindrical piece of raw carrot or potato, to keep it in shape. 
Pare and dry and butter the vegetables before using them. Brush 
with melted butter and tie each in a folded paper, buttered. Roast 
about twenty minutes. When cold remove the papers, potatoes, 
and trussing twine, and with a forcing-bag and tube fill the bird 
with a salpicon made by stirring the chicken breast, cooked mush- 
rooms and foie gras, all cut in tiny cubes, into Che cold tomato 
sance, mixed wiSi the aspic Add the aspic to the tomato sauce, 
while both are slightly warm, and stir while cooling in ice water, 



254 PRACTICAL COOKING AND SERVING 

then add the solid ingredients and fill the birds vnth the mixture 
before it begins to set. Let the birds become chilled, then with 
a knife, wet in hot water, cut each in halves. Cover with chaud- 
froid sauce and then with liquid aspic. Dress for serving against 
a rice croustade. Pipe chopped jelly between the birds and on tiie 
top of the croustade. 

COLD SOUFFLM of CHICKEN AND TONGUE 

I cup of liquid aspic. i cup of double cream. 

I cup of tomato purte. J cup of chopped (cooked) chicken. 

T tablespoonful of tarragon vinegar, i cup of chopped (cooked) pickled 
Salt and pepper. tongue. 

3 or 4 chopped tru£Ses. 

To make the tomato pur6e, cook the tomatoes until somewhat 
evaporated, then pass through a puree sieve and let chill. Beat the 
cold but still liquid aspic with the tomato puree and the vinegar 
imtil very foamy; add gradually to the chopped meat, then add the 
cream beaten solid, also a part of the truffles, with salt and pepper 
to taste; turn into a souffl6 dish — a small-size dish is needed — 
with a band of paper, fastened about and extending above the dish 
about an inch. Sprinkle the top with the rest of the chopped truffles 
and set aside in an ice "cave" — a pail that can be closed to keep 
out salt water will answer the purpose. Let stand an hour in 
crushed ice and salt. Remove the paper band before serving. Pass 
at the same time a green vegetable salad. 

CREAM OP CHICKEN, QLAC^ 

I cup of double cream. Salt, paprika and celery pepper. 

I cup of chicken aspic. i cup of cooked chicken breast cut 

in cubes. 

Have the chicken breast cut into one fourth inch cubes. Add 
the seasoning to the cream and beat solid; pour over the cream 
the aspic, which should be cold but liquid, add the chicken cubes 
and cut and fold the cubes and jelly into the cream. When begin- 
ning to set turn the mixture into a brick mould and chill thoroughly 
on ice. To serve, vmmould as any jelly, cut into slices half an inch 
thick, and these in halves, as the mixture is rich. With forcing- 
bag and tube decorate each slice with chicken pur6e, tinted a deli- 
cate green with vegetable color paste, then chill again. The most 



CHAUDFROIDS 255 

satisfactory way of serving is on individual plates, each resting on 
a lettuce leaf dressed with French dressing, or on cress leaves and 
tips, or lettuce cut in ribbons and moistened with French dressing 

CHICKEN PUREE FOR GARNISH OF ABOVE 

i cup of cooked chicken pulp. Pepper and salt, 

i cup of Bechamel sauce. i cup of liquid aspic jelly. 

i cup of cream. 

Measure the diicken after it has been chopped, pounded and 
sifted; add the other ingredients gradually in the order given. 

CHAUDFROIDS 

The pleasing appearance of a chaudfroid depends entirely upon 
the perfect shape of the article selected and the smoothness with 
which its surface is masked. In the recipe for chaudfroid sauce given 
on page 209, softened gelatine is added to an ordinary sauce made 
with roux. Oftentimes, as aspic is used in these dishes, it is more 
convenient to substitute this in place of gelatine. Being more 
dUute than solid gelatine the foundation sauce needs be thicker. 
Use one fourth cup, each, of butter and flour (double the usual 
quantity) to one cup of brown or white stock, tomato puree or 
brown stock and tomato piuree combined (terra-cotta color results 
from this latter combination). To this sauce add while hot from 
half to an equal quantity of aspic. The sauce is ready to apply 
when it coats a spoon smoothly, covering imperfections of color. 
When the sauce is of right temperature, set the saucepan contain- 
ing it in a dish of lukewarm water, reheating the water as it cools. 

CHAUDFROID OF TONGUE WITH CUBES OF 
ASPIC JELLY 

Cut out the thick portion of a cold cooked and trimmed tongue, 
leaving a thin strip at the bottom to hold the rest in shape. Cut 
the portion in thin slices and return to its original place in the 
tongue; brush the edges with aspic and the tongue to all appear- 
ance will be whole again. Dip the tip and opposite end of the 
tongue into melted gelatine and hold in place on a meat board or 
dish until the gelatine is set and the tongue firmly adheres. Cover 
tie tongue, which should be chilled by standing on ice, with 



2s6 PRACTICAL COOKING AND SERVING 

brown chaudfroid sauce (see page 209) and, when set, decorate the 
surface with sprigs of parsley and bits of cooked white of egg, first 
dipping each piece on the end of a larding needle into liquid aspic. 
When fixed in place cover with a thin coating of aspic jelly, and let 
stand to become firm. Have ready a large mound of aspic jelly 
cut in cubes; upon this dispose the tongue and surround the whole 
with triangles of pickled beet. 

CHAUDFROID OF SUPREME OF CHICKEN 

Prepare and cook a dozen "fillets of chicken, plain" (page 245). 
Set to press imder a weight and when cold trim them neatly and 
cover with tomato chaudfroid sauce; when the sauce has set, dec- 
orate one half of the fillets with pieces of truffle, to form a star, 
and the other half with pieces of hard-boiled white of egg, to form 
the same design; pour over the fillets a little liquid aspic to set the 
decoration and give a glossy surface. Chop a little aspic very fine, 
and with forcing bag and plain tube dispose this around the edge 
of each fillet. Set aside to become thoroughly chilled. Mix a cup 
in all of cooked peas, asparagus tips, tiny rounds of carrot, and 
cubes of turnip, half a cup of mayonnaise dressing, and a cup and 
one half of liquid aspic. Stir these gently together on ice until 
beginning to set, then turn into a concave border mould and set 
aside to become firm. When ready to serve unmould the jellied 
macedoine on a serving-dish, arrange the fillets upon it, one over- 
lapping another, and fill the centre with some of the vegetables 
used in the moulded macedoine, dressed with either French or 
mayonnaise dressing. Surround the whole with chopped aspic. 
Medallions of sweetbread, fillets of birds, etc., may be substituted 
for the chicken fillets. 

CHAUDFROID OF LAMB OR MUTTON CHOPS 

Have the chops cut of uniform thickness. If the chop bones aro 
not to be retained, use the "best end of the loin" dressed by the 
directions given on page 244. If the chop bone be retained, the 
chops will be too thick for this purpose imless a thin chop of varying 
thickness without bone be cut from between the chops with bones. 
Cut in the latter fashion, trim neatly, retaining only tender meat. 
Braise the chops, until tender, with fine-cut vegetables, partly cool 
in the liquid, then finish cooling under a weight Pare the ice-cold 
chops very neatly and cover with brown or terra-cotta chaudfroid 



CHAUDFROID OF SWEETBREADS 257 

sauce (see page 255). When this is set, decorate with capers and 
figures cut from cooked white of egg. When these are firmly fixed 
in place, cover lightly with aspic jelly and sift cooked yolk of egg 
around the edge. Dress the chops, resting on heart leaves of let- 
tuce, against a macedoine of vegetable salad. Cover the ends of 
the bones with paper frills. 

CHAUDFROID OF SWEETBREADS 

Cut the parboiled and cooled sweetbreads into halves and cover 
with chaudfroid sauce (see page 209). Decorate the sauce with 
bits of truflB.e and white of hard-boiled egg. When the sauce with 
decoration is "set," brush or pour over it some liquid aspic jelly 
and set aside to become thoroughly chilled. Serve with lettuce, 
celery, cress or tomato salad dressed with mayonnaise. Arrange 
half a tomato and a slice of sweetbread, alternately, in two rows 
on a dish with heart leaves of lettuce between. Pass mayonnaise 
in a separate dish. 



CHAPTER IX 
Vegetables and Their Cookery 

"How many things by season seasoned are 
To their right praise and true perfection!" 

— Merchant of Venice 



AVERAGE CHEMICAL COMPOSITION OF VEGETABLES AS 
PURCHASED (aTWATEr) 



Refuse Water 

Per Per 

Cent. Cent. 

Asparagus 94.0 

Beans, Butter, 

green S"- 29-4 

Beans, dried 12.6 

Beans, Lima. 

dried 10.4 

Beans, Lima, fresh.55.0 30.8 

Beans, String, fresh.7 .0 83 . o 

Beets, fresh 20.0 70.0 

Cabbage, fresh 15.0 77.7 

Carrots, fresh 20. 70.6 

Cauliflower, fresh 92.3 

Celery 20.0 75.6 

Com, green 61 . 29.4 

Cucumbers 15 . 81 . i 

Eggplant, edible 

portion 92.9 

Lentils, dried 8.4 

Lettuce 15.0 80.5 

Mushrooms 88. i 

Oka 12. S 78.9 







Carbo- 






'rotein 


Fat 


hydrates 


Ash 


Fuel val. 


Per 


Per 


Per 


Per 


per lb. 


Cent. 


Cent. 


Cent. 


Cent. 


Calories. 


1.8 


.2 


3-3 


•7 


los 


4-7 


■3 


14.6 


1.0 


370 


22.5 


1.8 


S9-6 


3-5 


1. 60s 


18. 1 


i-S 


6S-9 


4-1 


1.62s 


3-2 


■3 


9.9 


.8 


2SS 


2.1 


•3 


6.9 


■7 


180 


1-3 


.1 


7-7 


•9 


170 


1-4 


.2 


4.8 


•9 


"S 


-9 


.2 


7-4 


•9 


160 


1.8 


-S 


4-7 


■7 


140 


■9 


.1 


2.6 


.8 


70 


1.2 


• 4 


7-7 


•3 


180 


• 7 


.2 


2.6 


•4 


70 


1.2 


■3 


S-i 


■S 


130 


2S-7 


1.0 


59- 2 


5-7 


1.620 


I.O 


.2 


2.S 


.8 


7S 


3-5 


• 4 


6.8 


1 .2 


210 


1.4 


.2 


.6-5 


■S 


iSS 


258 











VEGETABLES AND THEIR COOKEBY 259 

Caroo- 

Refuse Water Protein Fat hydrates Ash Fuel val 

Per Per Per Per Per Per per lb. 

Cent. Cent. Cent. Cent. Cent. Cent. Calories. 



Onions, fresh 10. o 78.9 14 

Parsnips 20.0 66.4 1.3 

Peas, green 45.0 40.8 3.6 

Potatoes, fresh. .. .20.0 62.6 1.8 
Potatoes, Sweet, 

fresh 20.0 SS.2 1.4 

Spinach 92.3 2.1 

Squash s°-° 44-2 .7 

Tomatoes, fresh 94.3 .9 

Turnips 30.0 62.7 .9 



3 -8.9 .5 20s 

4 10.8 I.I 240 

2 9.8 .6 25s 

1 14.7 .8 310 

6 21.9 .g 460 

3 3.2 2.1 no 

2 4-5 -4 los 

4 3-9 -S los 
1 S-7 -6 I2S 



The vegetarian society will not have existed in vain, if it does 
nothing more than teach a goodly number of housewives how to 
cook vegetables properly and in more ways than one, viz: simply 
boiled and buttered. For this branch of cookery is much neglected. 
It is safe to say that not more than one family in twenty, and 
perhaps not in fifty, ever cook celery, save in soup, or squash and 
turnip other than as plain boiled or mashed, while potatoes are 
either plain boiled, boiled and mashed, or fried. 

In the cooking of vegetables the economical and thrifty house- 
keeper can find fit place for the expression of her genius. The 
flavor of meat is a pleasing one, but meat in roasts and broiling 
pieces is the most expensive and not infrequently the least satis- 
factory item of food that is purchased. The French or Italian 
housekeeper, with small expenditure of money, adds meat flavor 
to the cooked vegetable's — beans, cabbage, cauliflower, macaroni, 
rice, etc., and thus renders a cheap though nutritious food palatable. 
Cheese also combines well with many vegetables as it does also 
with grains and macaroni. This making of inexpensive food 
materials appetizing is the one great end in cookery that the Ameri- 
can cook needs to attain. 

It wiU be seen by the analyses given at the head of the chapter 
that many of the fresh vegetables do not possess a high food value, 
but they are very valuable at all seasons on account of the saline 
elements which tiey contain, and in the summer season, when the 
heat of the body needs to be regulated, they provide for the system 
large sources of pure water. Different vegetables possess different 
saline elements, all of which are needed by the system, and each 
vegetable iii season should be given a place on the table. 



26o PRACTICAL COOKING AND SERVING 

In hot houses lighted by electric lights, market gardeners can 
transform the short, dark days of the winter solstice into long, light, 
and growing days — such as are needed for the rapid growth o{ 
plant and vegetable. Still, there are but few forced vegetables and 
fruits that possess the genuine flavor of those that are grown in 
the natural manner. As a rule, when food is most cheap and 
plentiful, it is at its best; out of season, it is expensive and lacking 
in flavor and quality. In the early spring, the provident house- 
keeper will still make use, to a great extent, of such vegetables and 
fruits as are seasonable throughout the year, together with such 
dried articles as she has found most wholesome and palatable, ever 
bearing in mind how "all things come to him who will but wait." 
On account of their tough cellular structure, by far the greater 
number of vegetables are eaten cooked. Their digestibility de- 
pends upon the degree of tenderness that can be given to their 
cellular tissue. Of course, the quantity and toughness of cellulose 
in vegetable products depend much upon the Mnd of plant, the 
soil, and the season in which it is grown; but under the most favor- 
able cultivation this framework cannot be entirely eliminated, so 
that, first of all, thorough cooking, by which it is softened, is en- 
joined; soft water is an aid in this process, and, where this is not at 
hand, the solvent property of the water may be enhanced by the 
use of a few grains of cooking soda. This addition is less objec- 
tionable in the case of strong-juiced vegetables, like cabbage and 
onions, cooked in a large quantity of water to lessen the disagree- 
able flavor or constituents (as sulphur), and from which the water 
is to be carefully drained before serving. Quite a different plan 
should be pursued with the sweet-juiced vegetables, as peas and 
young beans. Of these soda would destroy the delicate green color, 
while salt would intensify it; little salt, however, should be used, as 
the water, in which these vegetables are cooked, holds in solution 
much of the sweet juices and mineral salts, their most valuable 
constituents, and should be retained for serving with them. 

Rapid cooking is desirable for strong-juiced vegetables, while a 
gentle simmering is preferable for the sweet- juiced varieties. When 
the vegetable is to be dressed with butter, the heat of the vegetable 
should be sufficient to melt the butter. 

USE OF SALT IN BOILING VEGETABLES 

Salt is added to vegetables for savor and, in some cases, to help 
retain the color of green-colored vegetables, as spinach, peas, 



USE OF SALT IN BOILING VEGETABLES 261 

asparagus, etc. Salt tends to draw out the juices and toughen 
fibre. Consequently, if color and savor are preferred to texture, 
or if the vegetables are quickly grown, fresh, and tender, use salt. 
If the vegetables are wilted and in consequence liable to be tough, 
add the salt just as they are done, thereby sacrificing color to 
tenderness. Potatoes, either white or sweet, that are usually 
tender when boiled, are best boiled in salted water. AU vegetables 
may be made more delicate in flavor by blanching. To blanch, 
cover the vegetable with cold water, let boil five minutes, then 
drain and rinse in cold water; drain again, then cook as usual. 

Those who live in the country may plant a garden, have a 
"canner" of some kind, and, in time of plenty, "put up" vege- 
tables and fruit for winter use. Even those who have no fruit 
trees often put up fruit. Young and tender asparagus, peas, string 
beans, beets, and sweet corn, when these are obtainable, may be 
canned most successfully, and prove truly delectable in taste. 
But, when the home supplies run short, then is the time to find out 
the possibilities of dried vegetables and fruit; and few know how 
tempting they may be made. Dried lima beans, lentils, and flag- 
eolets (French beans), soaked in cold water over night, cook 
quickly, and may be served with butter, cream or sauces; with 
more labor they may be transformed into soups, croquettes, souffles 
salads, etc. Tomatoes in combination or in sauces give variations 
to these dishes and, combined with a suspicion of onion impart 
flavor, which at the present time is demanded in all good cookery. 

Once having tried celery au gratin — celery alone or with cheese 
and oysters — or celery in a brown sauce flavored with kitchen 
bouquet, no part of the head of celery need go to waste. Of course, 
in any of these dishes whole heads of celery may be used, but, as a 
matter of economy, the tender inner stalks may be reserved for a 
"savory," and the coarse outer stalks, that are not palatable un- 
cooked, may be presented in one of the most pleasing little entrees 
mentioned above. These, properly seasoned and flavored, in ad- 
dition to their palatability, give quite an "air" to an ordinary 
home dinner. Note that the celery will need cooking at least an 
hour. 

STEAMING VEQETABLES 

Vegetables from which the liquid is to be drained may be more 
satisfactorily cooked by steaming than by boiling. This is espe- 
cially true of squash and vegetables belonging to the cabbage 
family. As rapid cooking is desirable the steamer may be placed 



j62 practical cooking and serving 

directly over the fire. Then , if the steamer be properly constructed 
and the range connected with the cliimney, all odor from the cook- 
ing vegetables is carried out of the house up the chimney. If 
plenty of water be supplied at the start the steamer need not be 
opened except to test the extent of cooking. 

WHEN PREPARING CANNED VEGETABLES 

It is well to remember that all canned goods are better if the 
cans be opened some little time before using, that the contents may 
come in contact with a fresh supply of oxygen. It is needless to 
add, perhaps, that it is a wholesome precaution to remove the con- 
tents from the can at once, after it has been opened. Acid fruits, 
tomatoes, etc., must be removed at once, or ill effects may result 
from their use. 

Peas, beans, and, in fact, all vegetables, used apart from the 
liquid in which they are preserved, should be thoroughly rinsed in 
cold water, and then scalded quickly in hot water, and drained. 
They are then ready for seasoning and serving in any manner 
desired; a little sugar (a teaspoonful to a can) will improve th« 
taste of peas. Rusty or leaky cans, or cans bulging at the end, 
should always be discarded. To simplify the matter of cooking 
vegetables, the things to be determined are: is salt or no salt to be 
used? is much or little water required? should this be hot or cold? 
and also is the cooking to be slow or rapid? These things can be 
best determined by considering whether the vegetable in question 
be strong or sweet juiced, fresh gathered, wilted or dried. 

POTATOES (STRONG JUICED) 

"perfect" potatoes 

Select ripe new potatoes and scrub them until the outer skin is 
removed; boil quickly in boiling salted water, drain perfectly dry 
and dust lightly with salt from the dredger, cover with a cloth and 
keep hot on the back of the range. Fold the potatoes, singly, in a 
hot, dry cloth, twist the ends of the cloth in opposite directions 
tightly, then drop the dry mealy potato, white as snow, into the 
serving-dish. Serve before they have become cold. 

IMITATION NEW POTATOES (THE HOTEL MONTHLY) 

Pick out small, round, ripe potatoes, wash and peel them. Put 
them into a cheesecloth sack and tie the top. Have ready a sauce- 



RICED POTATOES 263 

pan containing enough of equal parts of niilk and water (slightly 
salted) to cover the potatoes. Simmer slowly imtil they are done. 
Lift out the sack, allow them to drain on a colander a few minutes, 
then place in the oven to dry five minutes. Prepare a rich cream 
sauce seasoned with butter and salt. Remove potatoes from the 
sack, put them in a saucepan over hot water, and cover with the 
sauce. Serve in a deep vegetable dish. 

BAKED POTATOES 

First scrub thoroughly with a vegetable brush, then put into a 
hot oven. Potatoes of moderate size require in baking about 
forty-five minutes; they are at their best as soon as they are soft 
throughout. As the heat is usually strongest from above, turn the 
potatoes, occasionally, to insure even baking. On removal from 
the oven, break the skin, to let t\ie steam escape, lest the naturally 
dry, mealy potato become "soggy" from the quickly condensing 
steam. A potato baked in a slow oven is less digestible than the 
same when properly boiled. 

BOILED POTATOES 

Whether potatoes are to be pared after scrubbing is a matter of 
taste as well as economy and needs be decided in each individual 
case. (The United States Government has recently furnished op- 
portunity for experiments by which the exact quantity of nutritive 
elements wasted by cooking pared potatoes, both before and after 
soaking in cold water, could be determined.) Cooked without 
paring, the skins hold back mineral salts, some proteid and starch, 
hence where a dietary is restricted it were well to retain the skin. 
Old potatoes that have lost water by evaporation will be better if 
they be soaked in cold water, or at least put over the fire to cook in 
cold water. Let the potatoes be of uniform size and, if large, cut 
in halves lengthwise. Rapid boiling pulverizes the outside before 
the centre becomes tender. After the potatoes have become 
tender proceed as for "perfect" potatoes, omitting the twisting in 

the cloth. 

RICED POTATOES 

Pass through a ricer eight hot boiled potatoes; add three table- 
spoonfuls of butter, half teaspOonful of salt, and about half cup 
of hot milk or cream; beat thoroughly with perforated cake spoon, 
and pass through the ricer or vegetable press about the meat. 



264 PRACTICAL COOKING AND SERVING 

MASHED POTATOES 

Prepare as riced potatoes; beat luitil very light and fluffy, and 
pile irregularly in a serving dish, putting a bit of butter here and 
there in the depressions. 

POTATOES TO SERVE WITH FISH 

Pass hot mashed potatoes through a ricer. Add a generous 
piece of butter, a little salt and hot milk or cream, as needed. 
Beat thoroughly, and press firmly into a buttered tin. Have the 
potato about half an inch thick. Cut into diamond-shaped pieces, 
and score diagonally with a skewer dipped in melted butter. 
Brush over with yolk of an egg, beaten with a tablespoonful of 
milk, and brown in the oven. Serve with a teaspoonful of peas 
in a thick cream sauce, in the centre of each piece. The mixture 
needs to be dry to retain its shape after heating. Often a table- 
spoonful of milk will suflBce. 

POTATO CAKES 

Shape mashed potato left from dinner into small flat cakes. 
Dip in sifted flour and saute first one side and then the other in hot 
salt pork or bacon fat. 

DUCHESS POTATOES 

To about a pint of hot riced potatoes add two tablespoonfuls of 
butter, half a teaspoonful of salt, the beaten yolks of three eggs, 
and enough hot cream or milk to let the mixture pass easily through 
a forcing-bag with the tube attached. Shape as desired; brush 
over with a little beaten egg, diluted with milk or water, and brown 
in a hot oven. 

POTATO ROSES 

Fill the forcing-bag with duchess potato mixture (white or sweet). 
Hold the bag in an upright position, tube pointing downward, and 
force out the potato; at the proper moment press the tube gently 
into the mixture and raise it quickly, to break tibe flow. To make 
another style of rose, use a six-pointed tube, points almost meet- 
ing. Hold the bag in a position at right angles to that indicated 
in the first case, and force out the potato in a deeply cleft cord,which 



FRANCXDNIA POTATOES 265 

is coiled round and round in smaller and smaller circles; or shape in 
bowknots. Shape the roses on a buttered tin sheet, brush over 
with beaten egg, diluted with milk or water, and brown in the 
oven. _ Remove with a spatula or broad-bladed knife, and use as 
a garnish for meat or fish. When used as a border for a creamed 
dish, set closely together on the serving-dish, to avoid removal. 
Smaller roses may be arranged between the larger ones, so as to 
make a solid wall, to retain what may be served within. Some- 
times the whole wall is built up of small roses, in a manner similar 
to that in which children make bur baskets. 

POTATO CROQUETTES AND BOULETTES 

Omit the hot milk or cream and the yolks of two of the eggs from 
the duchess potato mixture, add pepper and a few drops of onion 
juice, shape as desired, then egg-and-bread-crumb and fry in deep 
fat. Add fine-chopped parsley and sweet herbs to the mixture, 
shape into balls and finish as croquettes, and potato boulettes are 
formed. Make a well in a ball of the mixture, put into this a tea- 
spoonful of peas, asparagus, cubes of chicken, etc., in cream sauce, 
cover with more of the potato mixture, shape as desired, egg-and- 
bread-crumb, and croquettes en surprise resiUt. 

ESCALLOPED POTATOES 

Pare five or six potatoes and cut in thin slices; dispose these in a 
buttered baking dish in layers; sprinkle the layers with salt and 
pepper, onion juice, and fine-chopped parsley, dredge with flour 
and add a few bits of butter. Pour just enough hot milk over the 
potatoes to cover them and bake in a moderate oven about an hour 
and a half. This dish may be prepared with cold, boiled potatoes 
and the time of cooking cut down nearly one half; also the quantity 
of milk required is less. 

FRANCONIA POTATOES 

Pare the potatoes and parboil ten minutes; drain and put on the 
rack in a pan in which meat is roasting; baste when the meat is 
basted. Potatoes thus treated will bake in about forty-five min- 
utes. Cook turnips and large or ripe cucumbers pared and seeds 
removed, in the same fashion. 



266 PRACTICAL COOKING AND SERVING 

BUTTERED POTATO, TURNIP OR CARROT BALLS 

With a French cutter, cut out potato balls; cook until tender 
in boiling salted water; drain, pour over them a little melted butter 
and sprinkle with fine-chopped parsley. Cook turnips or carrots 
in the same way. 

POTATOES A LA MAfTRE D'H6tEL 

Boil one pint of potato balls, cut with French cutter, in boiling 
salted water about ten minutes; drain, and add one cup of milk. 
Cream two tablespoonfuls of butter, add the yolk of one egg, beat 
in well, add also one tablespoonful of lemon juice, one tablespoon- 
ful of chopped parsley, half a teaspoonful of salt, and a dash of 
paprika; and, when the milk is partly absorbed, stir into the pota- 
toes quickly. 

BAKED POTATOES IN THE HALF SHELL 

Select shapely sweet potatoes of even size; wash and scrub with 
care. Bake and cut in halves lengthwise. Remove the pulp from 
the skins and pass it through a ricer. Season with salt, butter, and 
cream. Beat until smooth, then refill the skins with the mixture, 
using pastry bag and star tube. Reheat before serving. ' If 
desired, dust the tops with powdered sugar and cinnamon before 
reheating. 

POTATOES ANNA 

Pare the potatoes (white or sweet) and cut them lengthwise into 
slices one fourth an inch in thickness; carefully put the slices to- 
gether, to retain the original shape of tiie potato, and then run two 
wooden toothpicks, dipped in melted butter, through each potato 
to hold the pieces together. Parboil ten minutes, then bake either 
with the roast or separetely, basting with drippings from the roast. 
Remove the toothpicks: serve as a garnish to the roast. 

SYRACUSE HOT SALT POTATOES. (THE CATERER) 

Select potatoes of medium size and smooth skin and scrub clean; 
have ready a kettle of brine at- the boiling point; put in potatoes, 
cover and boil until tender; remove from the water and drain. 
Serve at once. The outside will be covered with salt crystals and 
the inside will be white and mealy. 



CANDIED SWEET POTATOES 167 

PARISIAN POTATOES 

Ti^ith French cutter (round vegetable spoon) cut out of uncooked 
potatoes, pared, a pint of balls. Cook in boiling salted water about 
ten minutes, or until nearly tender; drain, and toss in a frying- 
pan, in which there are four tablespoonfuls of melted butter and a 
little salt. Set the pan in the oven, shaking it frequently, until 
the potatoes are thoroughly cooked and well browned. Add a 
little fresh butter, a dash of salt, if needed, and a tablespoonful of 
chopped parsley. Toss the balls about, to distribute the ingredients 
evenly, and serve at once. 

SWEET POTATOES, SOUTHERN STYLE 

Into a large flat-bottomed saucepan put one fourth cup of butter 
and two tablespoonfuls of sugar. When hot lay in raw sweet 
potatoes, pared and cut in halves lengthwise, to cover the bottom; 
season with salt and pepper and cover not very closely with another 
layer of potatoes. Pour on boiling water to half cover the lower 
layer, cover the vessel tightly and set where the heat is gentle. 
When the lower layer is browned, remove to the top, letting the 
other brown. When both layers are tender the water should have 
evaporated, lea\'ing a little sauce to pour over the potatoes in the 
serving dish. If preferred, this dish may be cooked in a casserole 
in the oven. 

SWEET POTATO AND ALMOND CROQUETTES 

Bake several sweet potatoes. As soon as they are soft, break 
apart, scrape out the pulp, and pass through a squash strainer. 
To each pint of pulp add one teaspoonful of salt, two tablespoon- 
fuls of butter, one beaten egg, three tablespoonfuls of blanched 
almonds, chopped and pounded in a mortar, and hot milk, or 
cream, to make of a consistency to handle. Form into the shapes 
of apples and pears, egg-and-bread-crumb and fry in deep fat. 
Finish with stalks of parsley for stems. 

CANDIED SWEET POTATOES 

Pare and parboil half a dozen sweet potatoes, cut in halves 
lengthwise. After ten minutes' boiling, dram, and lay in a baking- 
dish. Spread thickly with butter, sprinkle with sugar, and, if 



268 PRACTICAL COOKING AND SERVING 

desired, a little powdered ciiinamon; add a few spoonfuls of hot 
water and bake until tender, basting often with the sauce in the 
pan. Use brown or maple sugar. 

BROILED POTATOES 

Halve lengthwise cold boiled potatoes, white or sweet; salt them 
lightly, then dip in melted butter, turning them so as to cover all 
sides with the butter. Then dispose them on a double-broiler — 
an oyster or tomato broiler is admirable for this purpose — and 
broil over a moderate fire, first on one side and then on the other, 
until well browned. Serve on a folded napkin and a hot dish. 

DELMONICO POTATOES 

Chop cold boiled potatoes into bits the size of peas; make a 
white sauce and stir the chopped potato into it, using a generous 
cupful of potato to each cup of sauce. Pour into a buttered pud- 
ding dish, cover the top with buttered cracker crumbs and bake 
about fifteen minutes in a hot oven. 

DELMONICO'S CREAM ROLL POTATOES 

Stir a generous pint of chopped potato (cold boiled) into a pint 
of cream or white sauce, seasoned with salt, onion juice or celery 
salt; turn the mixture into a well-buttered frying-pan and cook 
(covered) in the oven until the sauce is absorbed with the exception 
of just enough to hold the bits of potato together. Fold one half 
over the other, or roll from one side over and over as an omelet and 
turn on to a hot dish. Do not allow the potatoes to brown on the 
top or bottom. 

POTATOES WARMED IN MILK 

Melt two or three tablespoonfuls of butter in a frying-pan, and 
in it toss a pint of cold boiled potatoes sliced thin; when the butter 
is absorbed, sprinkle with salt and add enough milk to show be- 
tween the slices, cover and let cook until the milk is nearly ab- 
sorbed, then turn into a hot serving dish. Sprinkle with fine- 
chopped parsley. 

SARATOGA AND BERNHARDT POTATOES 

With the proper utensils cut pared potatoes into uniform thin 
slices and curls. Let stand in ice water two hours or more, chang- 




TONGUE MOULDED IN ASPIC JELLY. (See page 252.) 







CHAUDFROID OF TONGUE WITH CUBES OF ASPIC JELLY. 
(See pages 248 and 255) 




CHAUDFROID OF MUTTON CHOPS. (Seepage 256.) 




CREAM OF CHICKEN GLACE, WITH CRESS SALAD. 
(See pace 254.) 




TIMBALES OF HAM IN CHICKEN ASPIC (bee page 253 ) 




CHICKJiN CUTLETS WITH CRESS SALAD AND MAYONNAISE 
DRESSING (See page 251.) 



POTATO NESTS 269 

ing the water once or twice. When ready to cook, fry a few 
slices at a time in hot fat. The use of a basket makes draining a 
simple matter. Shake the basket over the kettle and turn the 
slices upon soft paper; let stand at the mouth of the oven until 
ready to serve. Sprinkle with salt before serving. Avoid hav- 
ing the fat too hot. When properly fried th6 slices are of straw 
color, crisp and tender. The fat should not register higher than 
370°, when the potatoes are put in, and should fall during the 
cooking to 340° or 345°. 

POTATOES BAKED WITH CHEESE (GERMANY) 

4 large cold boiled potatoes. 4 eggs. 

I pint of cream. 3 ounces of cheese. 

Salt and paprika. 

Cut the potatoes into thin slices and arrange in layers in a but- 
tered dish; sprinkle each layer with cheese, salt, and paprika and 
pour over a little of the eggs, beaten and mixed with the cream. 
Bake about half an horn*. Serve as a Ixmcheon dish, or at a family 
dinner with boiled ham, or broiled beefsteak. 

WHITE HASHED POTATOES 

Butter an omelet pan and put into it cold boiled potatoes chopped 
rather fine; sprinkle with a little salt, scatter bits of butter over the 
top, and pour over a little white stock or hot water. Cover and 
cook slowly until thoroughly heated through. Turn out carefully 
into a hot dish without stirring. Care needs be taken that the 
potato be not browned, but the stock and butter absorbed. 

HASHED BROWN POTATOES 

Chop six cold boiled potatoes very fine, adding half a teaspoonful 
of salt and a dash of pepper. Put one fourth cup of fat into the 
frying-pan, and, when hot, put in the potatoes, and heat quickly 
and ttioroughly. Press into one side of the pan to form an omelet. 
When well browned, drain off the fat and turn on to a dish. Fat 
tried out from salt pork is considered the best. 

POTATO NESTS 

Fill the space between the wire baskets made for this purpose 
■with raw potatoes, shredded or sliced, and fry one at a time in not 



270 PRACTICAL COOKING AND SERVING 

fat until tender and browned. Remove from the basket and drain 
on soft paper. Have ready potatoes, cut in small olive or ball 
shapes (French cutter) fried in hot fat, drained and sprinkled with 
salt. Dispose these in the nests and sprinkle with fine-chopped 
parsley. Serve on a folded napkin, or omit the napkin and sur- 
round with parsley. The wire baskets for shaping these nests 
come in several sizes. The small size is for individual service. 
The larger size is for serving three or four people. 

FRENCH FRIED POTATOES 

Scrub and pare the potatoes and cut in eighths, lengthwise; let 
stand in water until all are ready, then dry between towels as they 
are fried. Fry in a basket and but few at a time. Drain on soft 
paper and sprinkle with salt. Serve at once, as they retain their 
crispness but a short time. Avoid having the fat too hot. Often 
potatoes to be fried are soaked an hour or more in ice water; the 
question of soaking or not soaking cut potatoes in ice water before 
frying is a matter of individual taste. When sliced, and left to 
stand in water, a large quantity of starch is lost, and the potato is 
probably more crisp. In the other case, the pieces would be softer 
and more mealy. 

WHOLE POTATOES, BALLS, CURLS, ETC., FRIED 

Potatoes, pared whole, may be cooked in hot fat, but the fat 
should not be too hot, as the potatoes need cook about half an hour. 
If properly cooked the potatoes will be very mealy. Potatoes for 
frying are cut in many fanciful shapes. They make an attractive 
garnish for dishes of broDed meat. 

MASHED POTATOES WITH PEAS 

Shape hot mashed potato, seasoned as usual, into balls of the 
same size. Set on a buttered baking-pan, turned upside down, and 
with a spatula smooth neatly; brush over with beaten yolk of an 
egg, mixed with two tablespoonfuls of milk, score a circle on the 
top of each and set into hot oven to brown. Have ready, cooked 
peas, seasoned with salt, black pepper and butter. Transfer the 
balls of potato to a serving-dish, cut around the scoring and take 
out the piece, and remove some of the potato to form a case; fill 
•mth the hot peas and serve at once. 



EGGPLANT 271 

STEAMED SQUASH AU QRATIN 

Steam or boil a small Hubbard squash, cut in halves, until 
tender. Let dry on the back of the range, then remove from the 
shell and pass through a squash strainer. Add two tablespoonfuls 
of butter, one tablespoonful of cream, the beaten yolk of one egg, 
and salt and pepper to season. Mix thoroughly, and turn into a 
buttered baking dish, rounding the mixture on the top. Cover 
with half cup of cracker crumbs, stirred into one fourth cup 
of melted butter, and bake nearly half an hour in a slow oven. 
After boiling or steaming, winter squash may also be mashed and 
seasoned with salt and pepper and butter; or it may be cut into 
small pieces and baked as potatoes. Summer squash, as also large 
cucumbers, may be pared and cooked with the roast in the same 
manner as Franconia potatoes. 

SUMMER SQUASH STUFFED WITH SHRIMP (CREOLE 
RECIPE. MRS. HARRIS, OF NEW ORLEANS) 

Take half-grown squash and simmer whole in water ten minutes. 
Cut them in halves, U. small, in quarters, if large. Scrape out the 
interior, leaving the shells, however, thick enough to handle with- 
out breaking up. Remove seeds, if large. Press all superfluous 
moistmre out of the vegetable pulp and add to it the following: to 
enough squash to serve six persons put one cup of bread or cracker 
crumbs, one onion, and one tomato minced fine, one fourth dove 
of garlic, thyme, parsley, bay leaf, two cups of shrimp chopped fine, 
and two tablespoonfuls of lard. Fry the onion and shrimp lightly 
in the lard, and add to it the tomato and herbs. Into this turn 
the squash, which has been thoroughly mixed with the crumbs, 
also salt and pepper, and a beaten egg. Turn over and over with 
spoon, mixing it again and again. Let the whole cook for about 
ten minutes. Have the shells arranged in the baking dish. Fill 
each, rounding nicely. Sprinkle with cracker cnunbs, mixed with 
melted butter, and bake until brown. Serve hot. 

The squash may beieaped upon a pie plate, and so baked with- 
out the shells. Crab, minced ham, veal — almost anything, in 
fact, which is savory — may take the place of the shrimps. Egg- 
plant is stuffed in the same way, but needs a little longer boiling 

than squash. 

EGGPLANT 

Remove the skin and cut the plant into slices, one fourth an inch 
thick. If wilted freshen in cold water before slicing. Dip in fritter 



272 PRACTICAL COOKING AND SERVING 

batter (pages 246 and 499) and saute or fry in deep fat. Drain on 
soft paper and serve at once. Or dip in egg, then in bread crumbs 
and saute, first on one side and then on the other, to a golden brown. 

CAULIFLOWER (STRONG JUICED) 

Trim off the outside leaves and cut the stalk even with the edible 
portion, to stand level. Let stand, head downward, in cold salted 
water half an hour to draw out insects that may be present. Steam 
or cook head downward and uncovered, in a large kettle of rapid- 
boiling salted water until tender (about twenty minutes). Re- 
move any scum that is present on the top of the water before 
lifting the cauliflower from the vessel. The cauliflower may be 
tied in a cheesecloth before cooking. Serve with cream, white, 
Bechamel, Hollandaise or tomato sauce. Cooke^ flowerets of 
cauliflower are used to garnish dishes of veal, chicken, and sweet- 
bread. 

CAULIFLOWER A LA HUNTINQTON (BOSTON COOKING 

SCHOOL) 

Steam the cauliflower, prepared as above, in a tightly closed 
kettle until tender; separate into flowerets and pour over liese the 
following sauce: mix one teaspoonful and a half of mustard, one 
teaspoonful and a fourth of salt, one teaspoonful of powdered 
sugar and one fourth teaspoonful of paprika; add the slightly 
beaten yolks of four eggs and one fourth cup of olive oil. When 
thoroughly mixed, add half cup of weak vinegar, in which half 
a teaspoonful of fine-chopped shallot has infused five minutes. 
Cook over hot water until slighUy thickened, remove from the 
fire, add half a tablespoonful of curry powder, two tablespoonfuls 
of melted butter, and one teaspoonful or fine-chopped parlsey. 

CAULIFLOWER AU QRATIN IN CHEESE SHELL (ENTREE) 

Break a cooked cauliflower into flowerets; put a layer in a shell 
of Edam cheese, and cover with cream sauce; alternate layers of 
cauliflower and sauce until the shell is filled, having the last layer 
of sauce; sprinkle with buttered cracker crumbs and set the shell 
in the oven, to brown the crumbs. Serve a scraping of cheese 
with each portion of cauliflower. Celery, Brussels sproutSj cab- 



BRUSSELS SPROUTS WITH BUTTER 273 

bage or macaroni are also served from a cheese shell. Either white 
or tomato sauce may be used. 

CAULIFLOWER WITH MUSHROOMS (VEGETABLE 
ENTREE) 

Steam the cauliflower, prepared in the usual manner, until tender, 
separate into flowerets, and dispose each on a round of buttered 
toast; chop six mushroom caps and saute five minutes in three 
tablespoonfuls of butter; add three tablespoonfuls of flour and, 
when blended with the butter, add gradually a cup and a half of 
white stock; stir until the boiling point is reached; after all the 
broth has been added let simmer ten minutes, then remove from 
the fire and stir in the yolks of three eggs, beaten and diluted with 
the juice of a lemon; season with salt and pepper and, if the heat of 
the sauce does not suffice to cook the egg, return to the fire over 
hot water for five minutes, stirring constantly meanwhile. Pour 
this over the flowerets of cauliflower on the toast, sprinkle with 
buttered crumbs and brown quickly in a very hot oven. If served 
on a large dish, garnish with mushrooms stuffed and baked. Served 
individually, omit the garnishing. 

FRIED CAULIFLOWER 

Clean and separate a cauliflower into its flowerets, and trim the 
stalks to a point. Let cook five minutes in boiling water; drain 
and let cook again in fresh boiling water until tender, adding a 
level tablespoonful of salt to the water; drain again, and roll eadi 
floweret in sifted bread crimabs, cover with a beaten egg, diluted 
with two tablespoonfuls of water, drain off the egg, and roll a 
second time in bread crumbs; or dip in batter. When ready to 
serve, fry to a golden brown in deep fat, and drain on soft paper. 
Serve piled on a folded napkin, with sprigs of parsley between the 
flowerets, or serve as an entree with sauce Tartare or tomato sauce. 

BRUSSELS SPROUTS WITH BUTTER 

Boil one quart of Brussels sprouts in two quarts of salted water, 
about fifteen minutes, or until tender. Let drain on a cloth, then 
toss in a frying-pan with a scant fourth cup of butter, until the 
butter is absorbed; sprinkle with one teaspoonfui of chopped pars- 
ley and a dash of salt; mix and arrange in a mound on a serving- 
dish. Surround with points of toasted or fried bread. 



374 PRACTICAL COOKING AND SERVING 

CABBAGE (STRONG JUICED) 

Remove the bruised outside leaves, and cut in halves or quarters; 
cut out the hard centre; soak in salt and water. Cook in the same 
manner as cauliflower, either steaming or boiling. Cabbage is 
particularly good served au gratin. Use layers of cooked cabbage, 
chopped, and white sauce; grated cheese may be added to the 
layers, thus making a very substantial dish. 

STUFFED CABBAGE 

Cut out the stalk end of a head of cabbage, leaving a hollow 
shell. Chop two pounds of uncooked beef with a slice of bacon 
and onion; add one cup of breadcrumbs, soaked and wrung dry, 
one beaten egg, salt, pepper, and mace. Shape into balls, arrange 
in the cabbage, add strips of sweet pepper, and steam until the cab- 
bage is tender. Serve with tomato sauce. Cooked meat may be 
used by adding more eggs — whole eggs or the whites — to hold 
the meat together. 

ONIONS (STRONG JUICED) 

Unless the onions be very mild or young, when boiling change 
the water two or three times, replenishing each time with cold 
water and draining, when the boiling point is reached. Cook 
until very tender. Drain and serve with butter or cream, or a 
white sauce. Onions left over may be cut in thin slices and dis- 
posed in a buttered gratin dish in layers with white sauce, then 
covered with buttered crumbs and set into the oven, to reheat and 
brown the crumbs. Onion puree is particularly good with mutton 
chops. 

STUFFED ONIONS 

Cook ten or twelve onions in salted water, changing the water 
twice, about an hour, or until nearly tender; drain and cool. Take 
out the centre of each onion wi&out disturbing the outside layers; 
to this add six mushrooms, saut6d five minutes in butter; chop fine, 
add half a cup of bread crumbs and cream or white sauce to mix; 
season with salt, pepper and butter and fill the open space in the 
onions with the mixture. Put in a buttered baking dish, sprinkle 
the top with three fourths cup of cracker crumbs, stirred into a 
fourth cup of melted butter, and bake about twenty minutes, 



TURNIP PUREE 275 

basting carefully with a little butter and hot water. The onions 
may also be stuffed with pork sausage. Thus stuffs they become 
an appropriate garnish for roast turkey or sparerib of pork. 

ONION SOUFFLE 

Melt one tablespoonful of butter in a saucepan and add one 
tablespoonful of flour, one fourth teaspoonful of salt, and a dash 
of paprika. When smoothly mixed, add one cup of milk. When 
the sauce boils, add half a cup of stale bread crumbs (from centre 
of loaf), a teaspoonful of chopped parsley, one cup of cold boiled 
onions, chopped fine, and the yolk of an egg well beaten. Beat 
the whites of two eggs very stiff, and fold them into the onion 
mixtiu"e. Bake in a buttered pudding dish, in a moderate oven, 
about fifteen minutes. Serve at once with or without cream sauce. 

TURNIP CHARLOTTE (TURNIPS, STRONG JUICEP) 

Cook slices of carrots and turnips one fourth an inch thick until 
tender, drain and use them to Ime a buttered charlotte mould. 
Boil white turnips until tender; drain, and press through a fine 
sieve. To one cup of puree add one fourth teaspoonful of salt, 
a dash of white pepper, a grating of nutmeg, one fourth cup of 
thick cream, and, lastly, the stiff-beaten whites of three eggs. 
Bake in the decorated mould, standing in a pan of water, until rtie 
centre becomes firm. Turn from the mould and serve with veloute, 
white or Bechamel sauce. 

TURNIP PUREE 

Scrub and pare about six white turnips. Cut them into slices, 
cover with cold water, and bring quickly to the boiling point. 
Drain and blanch by rinsing in cold water, then cover with salted 
boiling water, and cook untS tender. Drain and turn into a cloth, 
and wring out the moisture. Pass through a squash strainer or, 
better still, a pur& sieve, then return to the fire to heat. Melt 
three tablespoonfuls of butter, cook in this two tablespoonfuls of 
flour, and, when frothy, add the turnip and one fourth cup of 
thick cream, with salt and pepper. Stir constantly until the 
mixture boils, then turn into the serving dish. Chestnuts, cauli- 
flower, onions, peas, beans, celery, spinach, etc., all make good 
purees for garnish of fish or meat dishes. The recipe given above. 



276 PRACTICAL COOKING AND SERVING 

will, with minor changes, evident to all, serve for any puree. The 
method of sifting is the same in any case — i.e., with a wooden 
spoon rub the material through a strong wire sieve of medium mesh, 
first placing the sieve firmly bottom upward over a plate and scrap- 
ing the material from the under side as it passes through. In some 
cases, as always with meat and fish, the vegetable will pass through 
the sieve more readily, if it be first mixed with the sauce, etc. 

TURNIP BALLS, POULETTE SAUCE 

With a French potato cutter cut out a pint of balls from large 
white turnips. Put over the fire in cold water, acidulated with 
one or two tablespoonfuls of lemon juice or vinegar, and let cook 
five minutes after boiling begins, then drain, rinse in cold water 
and cook until tender in chicken broth. Skim out the turnip balls 
and thicken the broth with a tablespoonful and a half, each, of 
butter and flour, creamed together — there should be about a cup 
and a half of broth — let simmer ten minutes, then add the beaten 
yolks of two eggs diluted with half a cup of cream. Season to 
taste with salt and white pepper, add the balls and let stand over 
hot water until very hot. A tablespoonful of lemon juice improves 
this dish for some. If a French cutter be not at hand, cut the 
turnips in cubes of imiform size, or cut out cylinders with an apple 
corer, then cut these into half-inch lengths. 

TURNIPS IN CREAM 

Peel and slice the turnips; blanch and cook until nearly tender 
in salted water. Drain and cut into cubes, one fourth an inch thick. 
Simmer ten or fifteen minutes in sweet cream. Season with salt, 
sugar, and white pepper, add one or two tablespoonfuls of butter 
and shake the pan until the butter is blended with the other in- 
gredients. Serve in a hot dish. 

BEETS 

Wash beets carefully to avoid breaking the skin and so loss of 
, color while boiling. Boil rapidly until tender. New beets will 
cook in one or two hours. Old beets can hardly be cooked 
enough. When tender drain and cover with cold water to 
loosen the skins. The skins should be removed with the hands. 
Season with salt, pepper, and butter. If the beets be large, cut 




ASPARAGUS SALAD MOULDED IN ASPIC JELLY. 
(See page 321.) 



,aa«a 




EGG-AND-TOMATO JELLY SALAD. (See page 326.) 







SALMON SALAD. (See page 328.) 




GREEN CORN CUSTARD WITH BROILED TOMATOES. 
(See page 284.) 




CREAMED MACARONI IN CHEESE SHELL. (See page 28^ 




MUSHROOMS coo:: 



FLAGEOLETS 277 

in slices. Beets left over may be covered with vinegar and kept 
for several days. Beets baked in a hot oven are particularly good. 
When cooked cut these in slices, dress with butter, pepper and salt. 

STRING BEANS 

Remove all the srings from the beans. Lay several pods to- 
gether on a meat board and cut all at once into Small pieces of 
equal length, cutting straight across or diagonally. Cook in 
salted boiling water until tender; drain, add salt, pepper and a 
generous piece of butter and toss together thoroughly while they 
are standing on the back of the range; cream, meat juice, chopped 
parsley, onion juice, lemon juice, bits of red or green pepper sauted 
in butter, tomato, poulette or soubise sauce are all exceptionally 
good additions to a dish of cooked string beans. Or the liquid in 
which the beans are cooked may be thickened with a white roux; 
when the addition of a beaten yolk of an egg with a little cream gives 
a more substantial dish. 

STRINGED BEANS WITH BACON 

Cut one or two slices of tender bacon into cubes and saute to a 
delicate brown, then add the hot cooked beans with a few drops 
of onion juice; toss them about a moment or two, then serve. 

LIMA BEANS 

Cook in boiling salted water until tender, drain and season in 
any of the ways given for string beans. 

FLAGEOLETS 

French beans (flageolets) come to us dried and canned. The 
cost of the dried bean is about thirty-five cents per pound; one 
fourth a pound is enough for a family of five, at a meal where some 
other substantial is served. To preserve the green color, set to 
cook, without soaking, in cold salted water, bring quickly to the 
boiling point, change this water for other boiling water, salted as 
before, and replenish with boiling water as needed. Let simmer 
imtil perfectly tender. Season with pepper and butter; onion 
juice or lemon juice, and chopped parsley may be added at dis- 
cretion. Flageolets make a good puree. 



278 PRACTICAL COOKING AND SERVING 

ASPARAGUS (SWEET JUICED) 

In its native habitat, on the shores of the Mediterranean, 
asparagus sends up its delicate shoots twice in the year; but, cul- 
tivated in our colder clime, this wild seashore plant has a short 
season. On this account, as well as for its diuretic qualities and 
the general favor with which it is received, we shall do well to serve 
it often while it is in season. 

Men who have written on cookery expatiate to great extent 
on the cooking of asparagus. Thudichum insists that it is " almost 
invariably overboiled by modem cooks." He says that cooks 
should remember the Roman saying, which becomes applicable 
when anything is to be done quickly: "Do it in no more time 
than is necessary to boil asparagus." 

Asparagus should be fully cooked, and yet each stalk should 
be left intact and possess a certain crispness. Sir Henry Thomp- 
son advises that "the stalks be cut of exactly equal lengths, tied 
in a bunch and boiled, standing tips upward in a deep saucepan; 
nearly two inches of the tips should be out of water, the steam 
sufficing to cook them, while the hard, stalky part is rendered soft 
and succulent by the longer boiling which this plan permits." 

By the latter authority, then, a longer time is required for cook- 
ing asparagus than the conventional twenty minutes almost in- 
variably prescribed by most writers, and our own experience is in 
harmony with this view. Fresh-cut asparagus, grown in warm, 
moist weather, may be cooked in the conventional time; but after 
it has been kept, or when it has been grown in a dry, hot season, 
the time of cooking must be perceptibly lengthened. 

The Gernian frau adds a, small piece of butter — a teaspoonful 
to a quart — to the water in which both asparagus and peas are 
to be cooked; a sprig of mint is also added to the peas. These are 
valuable adcitions, when the quality of the vegetable is doubtful, 
otherwise there is no material gain. Salt added to the water 
heightens the green color of both these vegetables, and this con- 
diment is not unpleasing to most palates. 

The tender tips of asparagus, called "asparagus peas" are served 
in consomm6, in omelets, either with or wiUiout sauce, and in 
scrambled eggs. Three asparagus stalks, held in two rings cut 
from cooked carrots, make an appropriate garnish for roast mutton. 

Opinions differ as to the serving of asparagus with toast, but as 
the stalks will not absorb all the liquid in which they are cooked, 
no matter how carefully the cooking is carried out, and as this is 



ASPARAGUS PATTIES 279 

too valuable to waste, the toast is, sometimes at least, worthy of 
consideration. 

ASPARAGUS EN BRANCHES 

Scrape the coarse scales from the branches, cut in equal lengths 
and tie in bunches. Cook the asparagus in a small quantity of 
water, drain and dispose on a well toasted and buttered slice of 
bre^,d. Rub the yolks of three hard-boiled eggs to a smooth paste, 
add one fourth teaspoonful of salt and a dash of pepper; then 
gradually beat into the egg enough butter, softened but not melted, 
to make a sauce of the consistency of mayonnaise dressing. Mask 
the asparagus with the sauce and serve at once. Bechamel, white, 
Hollandaise, and Bernaise sauce (hot or cold) are all used with 
asparagus. 

ASPARAGUS BAKED WITH CHEtSE 

I bunch of asparagus. i cup of asparagus stock. 

3 tablespoonfuls of butter. J cup of cream. 

3 tablespoonfuls of flour. The yolks of two eggs. 

i teaspoonful of salt. Grated Parmesan cheese. 

I cup of white stock or Buttered cracker crumbs. 

Scrape the scales from the stalks, wash and tie the asparagus in a 
bunch. Cook in boiling salted water until nearly tender and drain 
carefully. Make a sauce of the butter, flour, seasoning, stock, 
and cream; add the yolks and two tablespoonfuls of cheese. Stir 
the sauce until the cheese melts, but do not let it boil. Put the 
asparagus and sauce into a buttered oval baking dish in layers, 
having the asparagus tips at one end of the dish and covering only 
two thirds the length of the stalks with sauce. Sprinkle each 
layer of sauce with cheese, having the last layer sauce. Cover with 
buttered cracker crumbs and set the dish in the oven long enough 
to brown the crumbs. The ends of the stalks being uncovered avail 
in serving the dish to advantage. The tender portions of the 
asparagus, cut in half inch lengths before cooking, may be used 
instead of the whole stalks. 

ASPARAGUS PATTIES 

Make a sauce of three level tablespoonfuls, each, of butter and 
flour, and half a cup, each, of chicken broth, cream, and the water 
in which a bunch oi asparagus has been boiled. Add the beaten 



28o PRACTICAL COOKING AND SERVING 

yolks of two eggs, a teaspoonful of lemon juice, salt and pepper, 
and a bunch of hot asparagus, cut in small pieces and cooked until 
tender. Serve in hot puff-paste shells, in cases made of fritter 
batter or in bread croustades. 

ASPARAGUS, SPANISH STYLE 

Cook the asparagus tied in a bunch, the tips out of the waterj 
or cut the tender portion in small pieces, put aU but the tips over 
the fire to cook and when partly cooked add the tips. Drain the 
asparagus and turn into a serving-dish; add two tablespoonfuls of 
vinegar or lemon juice to the water, and in it poach three or f c*ur 
eggs; place the eggs in the asparagus and pour over the whole 
French dressing, to which a teaspoonful, each, of fine-chopped 
parsley, capers and cucumber pickles have been added. 

BOILED ASPARAGUS, MOUSSELINE SAUCE 

Prepare and cook as usual. When tender drain, and serve on a 
slice of toast, pouring the sauce over the asparagus. Siurround 
with fanciful shaped bits of bread, saut6d in butter. For the sauce 
beat two tablespoonfuls of butter to a cream; add the yolks of four 
eggs, one at a time; then add two tablespoonfuls of lemon juice, 
one fourth a teaspoonful of salt and a dash of paprika. Cook over 
hot water until the sauce thickens, then add two tablespoonfuls 
of butter in three parts, incorporating each part before another 
is added. Lastly beat in one foiurth a cup of thick cream. Serve 
when thoroughly heated. The sauce should be thick and frothy. 

SPINACH 

Spinach, which is quickly and easily grown, is in the market at 
all seasons of the year except a short time in midsmnmer and mid- 
winter. When young the stems may be retained, but if at all old 
the leaves only should be used. Kitchen scissors are useful in 
preparing this vegetable for cooking. Careful cleansing is needed; 
five or six applications of water will render it none too free of sand. 
The smaller the quantity of water used in cooking the better, and 
this should be retained for use in some way, as it contains the salts 
in composition, the most valuable constituent of the spinach. As 
considerable water dings to the leaves in washing, but little more 
needs be added. A gentle simmering will cook the tender leaves 



SPINACH BALLS 281 

very quickly. Salt should be added to preserve the color. The 
French call this vegetable the broom of the stomach. 

SPINACH IN A CROWN OF EQQS 

Cook a peck of spinach in boiling salted water until tender, 
then chop fine. Melt two tablespoonfuls of butter, and cook in it, 
without browning, two tablespoonfuls of flour. Add a gratin 
of nutmeg and the spinach. When well blended add half a cup of 
hot stock, or water in which the asparagus was cooked. Form 
into a mound and garnish with hard-boiled eggs. The white of 
egg, cut from the half-eggs to make them stand level, may be 
chopped fine and massed on the top of the mound (see illustration). 

SPINACH WITH SARDINES 

Heat one cup of grated bread crumbs in one fourth cup of but- 
ter; add a peck of spinach leaves, cooked and chopped, and the 
flesh of a dozen or more sardines. Mix and add broth, if needed, 
also salt and pepper. When hot form into an oblong. Garnish 
with slices of eggs, and place sardines over the top. Serve as a 
luncheon dish. Cooked spinach makes a good mound against 
which broiled chops may be served . 

SPINACH A LA BECHAMEL 

Drain the spinach and chop fine, or pass through a sieve. Return 
to the saucepan, and for each pint of spinach add a tablespoonful 
of butter, salt and pepper. Stir over the fire until the spinach is 
hot; then add the beaten yolk of an egg diluted with one third 
cup of cream. Stir and cook a moment or until blended. 

SPINACH BALLS (ADAPTED FROM "GOLDEN AGE 
COOK BOOK") 

Melt two tablespoonfuls of butter. Add two tablespoonfuls 
of flour and half a teaspoonful of sugar. When blended, add a 
tablespoonful of cream and three fourths cup of cooked spinach, 
chopped fine. Beat well, remove from the fire and add two eggs, 
one at a time. Season with salt and pepper, to taste, and a few 
grains of mace. Butter a tablespoon and fill with the spinach 
mixtture, making it level with the edge of the spoon, and poach in 



282 PRACnCAL COOKING AND SERVING 

a saucepan of boiling water four or five minutes or until firm. The 
water must not boil hard, but simply simmer very gently at one 
side. Six or more balls may be cooked at one time. Let drain 
in a colander while making a cream sauce; reheat the balls in the 
sauce, and serve. A teaspoonful of the sauce with three or four 
capers may be placed on the top of each ball, and the rest of the 
sauce poured around the balls. 

CELERY WITH SAUCE 

Trim away the outside leaves of three heads of celery, cut the 
roots to a point and trim off the tops of the stalks, leaving the heads 
six inches in length; wash and blanch ten minutes in boiling water, 
drain, cover with cold water, and wash carefully. Tie the heads 
in a bundle and put in a stewpan with a pint and a half of boiling 
stock or water, or half of each. Add one fourth cup of fat from 
the top of the stock, half a carrot, half an onion, a teaspoonful of 
salt and a few grains of cayenne; cover and let simmer an hoiu- or 
until tender. Drain out lite celery, strain the liquid, and remove 
the fat; use the liquid in making about a cup of brown sauce. Pour 
this over the celery. Garnish with cutlet-shaped pieces of bread 
fried in butter. 

CREAMED CELERY IN CHEESE SHELL 

Cut the cleaned celery stalks in pieces an inch long, and let cook 
in boiling water to cover until tender. For three cups of pieces 
make a pint of white sauce, using the water in which the celery was 
cooked, with cream as the liquid. Turn into the shell of an Edam 
cheese, cover the top with half a cup of cracker cnunbs, mixed 
with two tablespoonfuls of melted butter, and let brown in the 
oven. Serve a light scraping of cheese with each service of celery. 
For a more elaborate service, add parboiled oysters with the celery, 
and use the oyster liquor in making the sauce as a part of the liquid. 

CHEESE AND CELERY AU QRATIN 

I pint of cooked celery. f cup of grated cheese. 

I pint of white sauce. } cup of cracker crumbs, 

i cup of melted butter. 

Have the celery cut in half-inch pieces before cooking. Use the 
water in which it was cooked with white stock and cream in making 



SWEET CORN 2^z 

the sauce. Put alternate layers of celery and sauce in a buttered 
au gratin dish and sprinkle each layer with cheese. Cover the top 
with the cracker crumlas mixed with the melted butter and any 
cheese remaining. Set in the oven to brown the crumbs. Garnish 
with curled celery, celery leaves, and quarters of hard-boiled eggs. 

PEAS (SWEET JUICED) 

If the pods are clean and fresh, cook part of them with water 
to cover half an hour. Strain the water through a cheesecloth, 
reheat and use as the liquid in which to cook the peas. Freshty 
gathered tender peas should cook in twenty minutes. In cooking 
peas use no more liquid than it takes to cover them, season with 
salt, pepper and butter. Cream, broth or meat extract may be 
added. A little sugar is sometimes an improvement. Cubes of 
carrots, cooked separately, also are added to a dish of peas. This 
is a German custom. Peas alone or combined with carrots, turnips 
and potatoes are also served in cream sauce or in a curry sauce. 

PEA TIMBALES 

Mix one cup of pea pulp with two beaten eggs, a few drops of 
enion juice, two tablespoonfuls of thick cream, one tablespoonful 
of melted butter, two thirds teaspoonful of salt, one eighth 
teaspoonful of black pepper, and a few grains of cayenne. Turn 
into buttered moulds and bake in a pan of hot water until firm. 
Serve with one cup of white sauce, to which has been added one 
third cup of cooked and drained peas. 

These may be made of fresh, dried or canned peas. In season- 
ing a teaspoonful of fine-chopped mint leaves is approved by many. 
For variety or the sake of color add to the sauce, with the peas, 
cubes or figures cut from carrot, cooked tender, 

SWEET CORN 

Corn on the cob is thought to be sweeter and better flavored, if 
it be cooked without disturbing the husk; but, as the removal of 
the silk and husk is convenient after cooking, it is quite customary 
to strip down the husk, break the com from the stem, then remove 
the sUk, replace the husk, tie the end tightly, and let cook in milk 
and water, half and half, about fifteen minutes after boiling begins. 
Serve in lie husks. The liquid may be used for a com or mock 
bisque soup. 



284 PRACTICAL COOKING AND SERVING 

GREEN CORN CUSTARD WITH BROILED TOMATOES 

Cut com from young ears to make one cup; add to four eggs, 
beaten slightly with half a teaspoonful of salt, a dash of paprika, 
a few drops of onion juice and a cup and a quarter of milk. Bake 
in buttered moulds in hot water. When firm turn from the moulds 
and surround with slices of broiled tomatoes. Serve with cream 
sauce. When green com is out of season, komlet may be used. 
Three fourths cup will be enough. 

KENTUCKY CORN CROQUETTES 

Grate enough corn to make one quart of pulp; add one pint of 
cream or milk and cook twenty minutes in a double-boiler. Add 
two tablespoonfuls, each, of butter and grated cheese, one teaspoon- 
ful of salt, one fourth teaspoonful of pepper and two well-beaten 
eggs. Set aside to cool. When cold form into two-inch squares 
one inch thick. Egg-and-bread-crumb and fry in hot fat; or bake 
in the oven until brown. If the mixture be too moist to shape, add 
a little rolled cracked meal. 

GREEN CORN FRITTERS (MOCK OYSTERS) 

To one pint of grated com pulp add enough sifted cracker crumbs 
to hold the mixture together, also half a teaspoonful of baking- 
powder with salt and pepper to taste. Drop the mixture from a 
teaspoon into hot fat, making the fritters the size of an oyster. 
Fry to a light brown color and drain on soft paper. Serve on a 
folded napkin. 

SUCCOTASH 

Scrape, wash, and score in quarter-inch slices a quarter of a poimd 
of salt pork. Cover with boilihg water and let simmer five or six 
hours, or xmtil nearly tender. Add one pint of fresh-shelled lima 
beans and more water, if needed. When the beans become tender, 
add one pint of sweet com pulp. Cook about fifteen minutes, and 
add two tablespoonfuls of butter, or a httle sweet cream, and salt 
if needed. Pour the succotash into the serving-dish, slice the pork 
in the scorings, and serve at once. This dish is particularly good 
prepared with dried beans and either dried or canned com. If 
dried vegetables be used, let soak over night in cold water. To 
remove the pulp from the ears of corn without the hull, with a sharp 



STEWED TOMATOES 2S3 

knife cut down through the centre of each row of kernels, then with 
the back of the knife press out the pulp, leaving the hull on the 
cob. For a change, add a cup of reduced tomato pulp, seasoning 
accordingly; or an onion may be cooked with the beans and re- 
moved before the dish is sent to the table. 

PARSNIPS 

Parsnips are at their best in the spring (the sweet flavor 
developed in the ground through the winter being entirely wanting 
in the fall) . To prepare, wash and scrape until clean and cook until 
tender — it will take about an hour — cut in halves they will cook 
in less time. When tender put into a hot serving-dish, sprinkle 
with salt and put over them butter, in bits. Or simply scrub the 
parsnips with a brush and cook until tender, then throw them into 
cold water to remove the skins; cut in sUces, dip in floiu: and saut6 
in hot salt pork fat. 

PARSNIP FRITTERS 

Mash the parsnips, after boiling and removing the skin, season 
with salt, pepper and butter. Flour the hands or dip them in cold 
water and shape the mixture into small cakes. Dip these cakes 
in flour and saute in hot salt pork fat or butter. 

CARROTS 

Wash and scrape thoroughly, cut in halves, in balls or other 
shapes, boil until tender in boiling water, drain and toss in butter, 
salt and pepper, or in a maitre d'h6tel butter. Carrots cut into 
fanciful shapes may be served alone, or in combination with other 
vegetables, in brown, white or curry sauce, or in salads. 

STEWED TOMATOES 

Use either fresh or canned tomatoes. If fresh tomatoes are at 
hand, dip them into boiling water a moment to remove the skins. 
Cut them in shces and stew in an agate-ware or porcelain dish until 
tender, adding meanwhile for a quart of tomatoes half a cup of fine 
bread crumbs, stale but not dried. Season with a teaspoonful of 
salt, two teaspoonfuls of sugar, pepper to taste, and two or three 
tablespoonfuls of butter. 



286 PRACTICAL COOKING AND SERVING 

SCALLOPED TOMATOES AND ONIONS. (MRS. McEWEN, 

OHIO) 

Use very tender new onions, or onions previously cooked and 
left over. If new onions are selected, cut in thin slices and saute 
in hot butter a few moments without discoloring the onion. Butter 
an agate serving-dish; put in a layer of sliced tomatoes, season with 
salt and pepper, sprinkle with buttered bread or cracker crumbs, 
then add a layer of onion slices; continue in the same order, having 
the last layer of crumbs, until all the ingredients are used. Bake in 
a moderate oven half to three fourths an hoxu-. 

BROILED TOMATOES 

Cut the tomatoes in halves without removing the skin, dip 
in oil or melted butter, then season with salt and pepper, and dip 
in fine cracker crumbs. Put between a well-oiled tomato or oyster 
broiler, and cook imtil the crumbs are brown, turning often, so as 
to avoid burning the crumbs. 

STUFFED TOMATOES A LA SICILIENNE 

Select a dozen smooth tomatoes of same size. Remove a round 
piece about an inch in diameter from the stem end of each. Re- 
move the seeds and pulp, to leave a shell, and chop the pulp fine. 
Put into a saucepan four tablespoonf uls of butter and saute in this 
half an onion chopped fine, then add a pint of chopped mushrooms 
and stir and cook until the moisture evaporates; now add the 
tomato pulp, half a cup of lean ham, cooked and chopped fine, 
half a cup of bread crumbs (stale not dried), a few leaves of sweet 
herbs, tied in a parsley branch, salt and pepper with broth or 
thickened sauce to moisten, stir and cook imtil thoroughly heated, 
then remove the parsley branch and fill the tomatoes. The mix- 
ture should not be too moist. Set the tomatoes in a baking pan, 
and sprinkle with grated cheese and buttered crumbs. Bake 
about half an hour in a moderate oven. 

STUFFED TOMATOES A LA CAROLINE 

Select a dozen roimd tomatoes of the same size. Remove a 
piece about an inch in diameter from the blossom end of each and 
take out the seeds. Cook a cup of rice in a quart of well-seasoned 



SALSIFY 287 

broth, with half a green pepper cut fine. When the rice is nearly 
tender, add half a cup of butter and mix thoroughly, but carefully, 
to avoid breaking the grains of rice. Fill the tomato shells with 
the rice; put back the covers, set in a baking pan, stem end down, 
brush over the outside with olive oil or melted butter and bake, 
half an hour in a moderate oven. Remove carefully to a serving 
dish and pour around the tomatoes a cup of highly seasoned to- 
mato sauce. 

CANNED TOMATOES WITH SAVORY CUSTARD 

MLs together one pint of tomatoes (canned), one fourth cup 
of grated bread crumbs (centre of loaf passed through a colander), 
one tablespoonful of fine-chopped onion, one teaspoonful of sugar, 
and salt and pepper to taste; pour into a buttered baking dish. 
Beat four eggs, add half a teaspoonful of salt, a teaspoonful of sugar, 
and a cup and a half of milk; pour over the tomato mixture, and 
bake in a slow oven until set (about three fourths an hour). 

CANNED TOMATO AND CHEESE PUDDING 

Mix one pint of canned tomatoes, one cup of grated bread crumbs, 
one third cup of grated cheese (American factory cheese), half 
teaspoonful of salt, and pepper to taste, and pour into a buttered 
baking dish. Mix one third cup of bread crumbs with one table- 
spoonful of melted butter and two tablespooniuls of grated cheese, 
spread over the top and bake about twenty minutes. 

JERUSALEM ARTICHOKES 

Wash and scrape the desired number of artichokes. Cover with 
boiling salted water and cook until tender (about half an hour), 
drain, dust with salt, and set on the back of the range to evaporate 
the moisture. Serve with melted butter, or with white or Bechamel 
sauce. 

SALSIFY 

This vegetable is usually scraped before cooking, and much care 
is necessary — soaking and cooking in acidulated water, etc. — 
to keep it from discoloring. A better plan would be to scrub the 
roots carefully — a vegetable brush is indispensable in cleaning 
all root vegetables — and cook without scraping; then peel care- 



288 PRACTICAL COOKING AND SERVING 

fully and cut in small pieces before sending to the table. Salsify 
may be served with butter and seasoning, but it is better when 
dressed with a white sauce. It is also served au gratin. A tea- 
spoonful of lemon juice may be added to the sauce, or sprinkled 
over the cooked salsify, before the sauce is poured over it. It is 
particularly good served au gratin. 

OKRA 

Procure young and tender pods (see Okra Soup) and cut off both 
ends to make the pods uniform length (about two inches). Blanch 
the pods, then lay them in a saucepan, add hot stock just to cover, 
and let simmer until tender and the stock is reduced. Serve on a 
hot plate dressed with Bechamel, HoUandaise or any sauce used 
with asparagus. Garnish with sippets of toast points, or cutlet 
shapes. A little lemon juice should be added to a Bechamel or a 
drawn-butter sauce that is to be served with okra. 

OKRA SAUTE (CREOLE STYLE) 

Chop a peeled onion, a clove of garKc, and half a red or green 
sweet-pepper pod, and saute in a little butter without browning; 
add six or eight tomatoes, peeled and cut in quarters, and let 
simmer half an hour, then add about a dozen boiled okra pods; 
cover the pan and let simmer until the mixture thickens. Season 
with salt. Serve on slices of hot buttered toast. 

MUSHROOMS 

For centuries epicures have sung the praises of mushrooms as 
an article of food and devised choice recipes for their preparation. 
But it was left to the present generation to call them the "beef- 
steak of the vegetable kingdom," and to assert that "mushrooms 
contain the same nutritive value as meat." By comparing the 
composition of mushrooms and of meat (see headings of chapters 
on Vegetables and Beef) the truth or falsity of such statements 
can be easily verified. 

By the late analysis at the agricultural experiment stations it 
would seem, as far as nutritive value is concerned, that mushrooms 
rank higher than most green vegetables and are about on a par with 
green peas and beans. 

At present the price of cultivated mushrooms places them in 



PREPARATION OF MUSHROOMS 2S9 

the list of luxuries; and as all mushrooms, particularly those grow- 
ing wild, spoil very quickly and must of necessity be cooked soon 
after gathering, it would seem that fungi cannot be listed as a 
standard article of food. They may be successfully dried or canned 
at home; and either in this condition, or when fresh gathered, they 
may avail to give a pleasing variety to the dietary or, in small 
quantities, add relish to many an otherwise tasteless dish. 

The mushroom, Agaricus campestris, which is cultivated for the 
market in hothouses and cellars, is also foimd wild; the death cup, 
poisonous Amanita, the poisonous principle of which is one of the 
tox-albumins (the poisons which produce death in cholera and 
diphtheria and for which there is no known antidote), belongs to the 
same family: fimgi with gills. The various members of this 
family have so many things in common that none but an expert 
can say with certainty this is edible, that is not. 

The risks attendant upon the eating of poisonous mushrooms 
are too serious to warrant any other than those who have become 
proficient — by the most careful observation and study — in the 
exact classification of fungi, in attempting to gather wild mush- 
rooms for the table. 

Exceptions may be made in the case of amateurs who have 
learned to distinguish full-grown Ctoima (coral mushrooms), puff 
balls, and morels; these belong to families in which there are no 
known poisonous species; they have "hallmarks" by which, after 
passing the button stage of growth, it is possible to distinguish 
them with certainty and, if Siey be fresh and free from insects, 
the amateur may gather and eat them with impunity. As to 
methods of determining the character of other species of mush- 
rooms, there are none save actual knowledge of the most minute 
characteristics of the different groups or genera. 

The silver spoon test cannot be relied upon, in fact, it is no test 
at all, as certain varieties of both poisonous and edible mushrooms 
will turn silver black. The novice must discard all button mush- 
rooms and all mudirooms with swollen base surrounded with any 
sort of an envelope. Button mushrooms are not developed suf- 
ficiently to be accurately known and some of the poisonous varie- 
ties have an enlarged base. 

PREPARATION OF MUSHROOMS FOR COOKING 

Trim off the earthy end of the stalk, and wipe the cap with a 
.damp doth (avoid washing when possible, as soaking in water 



29© PRACTICAL COOKING AND SERVING 

tends to destroy the flavor). If the skin be tough, remove by peel- 
ing. The stems and the skin upon the caps of the common mush- 
room, AgaricUs campestris, are tough and require longer cooking 
than does the flesh of the cap. On this account the peeled caps 
are often used in one dish and the trimmings, chopped fine, are 
added as a flavor to some other dish. If not needed for immediate 
use the trimmings may be dried in the wanning oven and stored 
in a tight-closed bottle or bag, for future use. 

Many think that the peculiar mushroom flavor is heightened or 
brought out more fully by first of all sauteing the mushrooms, pre- 
pared for cooking, in a little hot butter. Some ways of cooking 
mushrooms are better adapted to one variety than to another. 
Occasionally, to prevent discoloring, mushrooms are sprinkled with 
lemon juice after being peeled or broken into pieces; this, however, 
detracts from the mushroom flavor. 

TO KEEP MUSHROOMS TEMPORARILY 

Nina Marshall in "The Mushroom Book" is authority for the 
following: "To keep mushrooms temporarily, cleanse, remove 
the parts to be rejected, rinse in cold water the parts to be used, 
dry with a cloth, then put in boiling water and keep boiling for five 
or ten minutes. Drain and wipe (icy." Thus prepared, the water 
in which the mushrooms are cooked should be retained for use in 
sauce or soup. 

STEWED MUSHROOMS 

Saute the peeled caps, broken in pieces if large, in a little hot 
butter; add tiiin cream enough to rather more than half cover, 
cover the saucepan and let simmer very gently about twenty 
minutes. Serve with crackers, puff-paste diamonds or sippets of 
toast. Milk or stock may take the place of the cream and a little 
thickening of roux, or flour and water, may be added, when the 
mushrooms are half-cooked. 

SCALLOPED MUSHROOMS 

Peel the mushrooms and break them into pieces. If it be de- 
sired to serve them very white, throw the pieces, sprinkled with 
lemon juice, into boiling water; allow them to stand two or three 
minutes, then pass into cold water. Dry carefully and saute in 
hot butter three or four minutes. To two cups of mushrooms add 



CHAMPIGNONS A LA ALGONQUIN 291 

three tablespoonfuls of flour and half a teaspoonful of chopped 
parsley. Stir and cook until the flour has become absorbed by 
the butter, then add one cup of stock, milk or cream. Stir until the 
sauce boils, then simmer very gently ten minutes. 'Add one tea- 
spoonful of lemon juice, a dash of paprika, and one fourth tea- 
spoonful of salt. Remove from the fire. Beat the yolk of an egg 
with two tablespoonfuls of milk or cream and stir into the mixture. 
Fill buttered shells with the preparation. Stir one cup of cracker 
crumbs into one third cup of melted butter, and spread the 
crumbs over the top of the preparation. Let the dish stand in 
the oven long enough to brown the crumbs. 

PUFF BALLS 

All puff balls are edible when gathered at the white stage. Wipe 
carefully, cut off the base, then peel. Cut in slices about an inch 
in thickness. Season with salt and pepper, and saute in a little 
butter, or dip in beaten egg and bread crumbs, and fry to a golden 
brown, in smoking hot fat. Perhaps they are more delicate broiled. 
In this case, season with salt and pepper, dredge lightly with flour, 
and broil over a fire not too bright. Remove from the broiler, 
spread with butter, and serve on a hot platter. Puff balls are 
particularly good when sauted in bacon fat, or broiled and served 
with bacon as a garnish. 

PUFF BALL STEW 

Peel and trim the fungi. Cut into small cube-shaped pieces, 
cover with white stock, milk or water, and simmer twenty minutes; 
when they have cooked five minutes, stir into them (for a pint) 
two tablespoonfuls, each, of butter and flour creamed together. 
When tender season with salt and pepper, add a little cream or 
butter and a teaspoonful of fine-chopped parsley. Serve with 
crackers. 

CHAMPIGNONS A LA ALGONQUIN 

Have ready in a baking pan as many rounds of stale bread as 
mushrooms. Remove the stems from the mushrooms, peel the 
caps, and saut6 them in a little hot butter. Put a cap on each 
round of toast, gill side up. Put an oyster on each mushroom and a 
bit of butter on each oyster and dust ihe whole with salt and pepper. 
Bake in a hot oven until the oysters look plump. Serve with a 



292 PRACTICAL COOKING AND SERVING 

sauce made of two tablespoonfuls, each, of butter and flour, salt 
and pepper, and half a cup, each, of chicken stock and cream. 

MUSHROOM CROQUETTES. (ANNIE P. DOUGHTY, BOSTON) 

Clean and peel half a poimd of mushrooms, chop the stems and 
peelings and simmer twenty minutes in milk or white stock to cover; 
strain through a cheeseclofii and reserve the liquid. Make a sauce 
of one fourtS cup of butter, half a cup of flour, one cup, each, of 
the mushroom liquor and cream. Season with half a teaspoonful 
of salt, one fourth teaspoonful of paprika and a grating of nutmeg. 
Saute the caps cut small in a little butter until tender; add two hard- 
boiled eggs, rubbed through a sieve, a tablespoonful of chopped 
parsley, the sauce, and the yolks of two raw eggs. Mix thoroughly 
and spread on a dish to cool. Shape into croquettes, egg-and-bread- 
crumb and fry in deep fat. 

MUSHROOMS COOKED UNDER GLASS 

Saute one fourth pound of peeled mushroom caps (the Agaricus 
campestris is particularly good cooked this way) in one or two (as 
needed )tablespoonfuls of butter: season with salt and paprika, add 
a generous half cup of thin cream, cover and let simmer until 
reduced a little. Arrange the mushrooms on a round of bread in a 
mushroom dish, pour the liqmd over them, cover with a glass bell 
and bake about twenty minutes in a moderate oven. Send to the 
table without removing the glass, which confines the delicate flavor 
and aroma of the mushrooms. The cream may be omitted. 

MUSHROOMS AND tALVES' BRAINS A LA POULETTE 

Saute a clove of garlic, cut fine, in two tablespoonfuls of butter; 
add half a pound of mushrooms, peeled and broken in pieces, and 
one fourth cup of flour and saut6 until well browned. Then 
add one fourth teaspoonful, each, of mace and paprika, half a 
teaspoonful of salt and very gradually one cup and a half of stock 
and cook five or six minutes. Then add three calves' brains, cooked 
and cut in cubes, and a teaspoonful of chopped parsley. When 
the mixture is thoroughly heated, add the yolks of two eggs, 
beaten and diluted with a tablespoonful of lemon juice. Serve in 
patties, Swedish timbale cases, or in croustades of bread. 




BIRD'S NEST SALAD. (See page 325O 







a^ 










A t"?!^ ,_jL -*i ^ 


7»3 




^ ■ 






^j^tkumMS . Z^^ 


i^^ 




^ r^ ■ 


^ 




?^ 


?&| 










iL X 


iM 


»'^< 








S^/«E 


-,..-d 




^^ 


^^^ 




l^ta 


■i 


r* 




,,.,.„, J 



CHICKEN SALAD IN SALAD ROLLS. (See page 327) 




CRESS-/-—- -'^-■'-- '' 



CLAVARIA BAKED WITH CHEESE 293 

MUSHROOMS AND MACARONI, ITALIAN STYLE 

Put one tablespoonful of butter and one teaspoonful of lemon 
juice into the blazer; add a dozen peeled mushrooms, broken into 
pieces, stir, then cook slowly, covered, five or six minutes. Then 
add one cup and one fourth of milk, and, when scalded, stir into it 
two tablespoonfuls, each, of butter and flour, creamed together. 
Let simmer ten minutes, then add one fourth pound of macaroni, 
cooked and blanched in the usual manner; heat over hot water and, 
just before serving, add one fourth a cup of grated cheese. 

BOLETI SAUTED WITH BACON. (ANNIE P. DOUGHTY) 

Cook thin slices of bacon in the oven — let the bacon stand in a 
double-broiler over a dripping pan — imtil nicely crisped. Peel 
and slice the mushroom caps, rejecting tough stems and long 
spongy pores; saute in bacon fat until tender, season with salt and 
pepper, drain on soft paper, sprinkle with lemon juice and serve 
hot with the bacon. 

COPRINUS COMATUS BAKED WITH OYSTERS 
(ANNIE P. DOUGHTY) 

Dress the prepared, lengthwise halves of fine, large Coprinus 
comatm on long, narrow, buttered strips of bread; season with 
salt and pepper, cover closely and bake fifteen minutes. Remove 
from the oven and on each half mushroom place one large oyster, 
seasoned with salt and paprika, and rolled in melted butter and 
then in cracker dust. Return to the oven to plump the oysters. 
Serve with hot cream or Bechamel sauce poured around. 

CLAVARIA BAKED WITH CHEESE. (ANNIE P. DOUGHTY) 

Pick over, trim and wash the mushrooms. Parboil in boiling 
salted water ten minutes. To two cups of cooked and drained 
Clavaria allow one cup of cream sauce, two tablespoonfuls of grated 
cheese (Swiss, Parmesan or old English) and half a cup of buttered 
crumbs. Butter a gratin dish, put in the Clavaria, then the sauce, 
and lastly the dieese with the buttered crumbs. Bake until the 
crumbs are browned. 



294 PRACTICAL COOKING AND SERVING 

TOMATOES STUFFED WITH MUSHROOMS 

Wipe firm, ripe tomatoes; cut a thin slice from the stem end and 
with a teaspoon scoop out the seeds; sprinkle the insides with salt, 
invert, and let stand to drain half an hour. Cook together three 
minutes two tablespoonfuls of butter and two teaspoonfuls of 
minced onion; add one cup of fresh mushrooms, sliced (equal parts 
of Campesiris and puff balls are good), and saute slowly ten minutes; 
add one cup of stale bread crumbs from the centre of the loaf, 
season with salt and pepper, stir in one egg, slightly beaten, and 
fill the tomatoes with the mixture. Sprinkle buttered crumbs over 
the tops. Bake in a buttered baking dish half an hour. Chicken 
or veal, chopped fine, is a good addition to this forcemeat. 

RUSSUL/E A LA BORDELAISE 

Sprinkle a buttered gratin dish thickly with buttered bread 
crumbs. Spread with a deep layer of fresh Russula prepared for 
cooking, sprinkle with a little finely minced parsley, and season 
with salt, pepper and onion juice. Cover with buttered crumbs. 
Repeat the layers until the dish is filled. Bake half an hour, cov- 
ered; ten minutes before serving remove the cover to brown the 
cnmibs on top. Serve very hot. Olive oil may be substituted, 
for the butter, and a clove of garlic for the onion. 

CEPES A LA DUMAS 

Drain a generous cup of Cepes that have been soaking in water 
several hours, on a sieve, then wipe dry and cut in slices. Sautd 
a shallot, a clove of garlic, or a slice or two of onion, in a Uttle olive 
oil or butter; skim out the onion, whichever variety be used, and 
saute the mushrooms; add one teaspoonful of chopped parsley, 
salt and paprika and one cup of cream sauce. Sprinkle buttered 
scallop shells with grated bread crumbs and fill with the mushroom 
mixture; cover with buttered crumbs and bake until brown. Serve 
the shells on a folded napkin. 

MUSHROOMS WITH MACARONI AND KIDNEYS 

Boil and blanch half a pound of macaroni; return to the saucepan 
and add one fourth cup, each, of butter and grated cheese (pref- 
erably Parmesan). Toss together and dispose in a circle in the 



PIMENTOES STUFFED WITH MUSHROOMS 295 

serving-dish. Prepare a tomato sauce with a cup of thick (well 
reduced) tomato puree, butter, flour, seasoning, a tablespoonful 
of beef extract, and a few drops of kitchen bouquet. Remove the 
skin of a veal or lamb kidney, slice very fine and saute in butter; 
skim from the butter and saute in that half a dozen mushroom 
caps, peeled and cut in slices; drain these also and add with the 
kidney to the sauce; season as needed with salt and pepper and 
turn into the centre of the ring of macaroni. 

PIMENTOS STUFFED WITH MUSHROOMS 

Line buttered dariole moulds with pimentos. Wipe carefully 
half a cup of mushrooms; peel the caps, cut in small pieces and 
chop the stems fine; saute in one tablespoonful of butter together 
with half a small onion, chopped fine; then add three fourths 
cup of white sauce, half a cup of fine bread crumbs, half a cup of 
cooked meat, fine-chopped, and the beaten yolk of one egg; season 
with a pimento, chopped fine, and salt to taste. Fill the lined 
moulds with the mixture. Bake in a pan of hot water. Serve 
turned from the moulds on rounds of toast. Pimentos are 
Spanish peppers, very mild and sweet in flavor; they are found in 
the market, canned. There are about a dozen in each can which 
costs eighteen cents at retail. 



CHAPTER X 
Corn Plants Used as Breakfast Food and Vegetables 

"Samp is the Indian com, beaten and boiled, and eaten hot or cold witL 
milke or butter, which are mercies beyond the native's plaine water, and is a 
dish exceeding wholesome for English bodies." — Roger Williams. 



AVERAGE CHEMICAL COMPOSITION OF FARINACEOUS FOOD 



(atwater) 



Water 
Per 
Cent. 

Barley, granulated 10.9 

Farina 10.9 

Commeal, granulated .....12.5 

Hominy 11. 8 

Oatireal 7.3 

Rice 12.3 

Rye meal 11. 4 

Macaroni 10.3 



Protein 

Per 

Cent. 


Fat 

Per 

Cent. 


Carbo- 
hydrates 

Per 
Cent. 


Ash 
Per 
Cent. 


Fuel val 
per lb. 
Calo- 
ries. 


75 


0.9 


79.8 


0.9 


1.660 


41 




4 


84.1 


•S 


1.660 


9.2 


I 


9 


7S-4 


i.o 


I -655 


8-3 




6 


79.0 


•3 


1.650 


16. 1 


7 


2 


67.S 


1-9 


1.860 


8.0 




3 


79.0 


• 4 


1-630 


13-6 


2 





71S 


i-S 


1.66s 


13-4 




9 


74- 1 


1-3 


1.66s 



BREAKFAST CEREALS 

Steam-cooked cereals can be eaten without much time being 
given to their preparation and in consequence their consumption 
is enormous. Many children are permitted, morning after morn- 
ing, to make a full breakfast of cereal. While a child with strong 
digestive powers may appear for a time to thrive upon such diet, it 
becomes a fruitful soiurce of dyspepsia. Many a dish of oatmeal, 
sugared and deluged with milk, causes acidity of the stomach or 
heartburn, which is wrongfully ascribed to other causes. The 
trouble lies not so much with the cereals themselves — though 
some are more prone to produce digestive disturbance than others 
— as it does with the manner of cooking and masticating. Cereals 
are largely composed of starch and tough woody fibre, hence long 

296 



SERVING CEREALS 297 

and thorough cooking and thorough mastication are prime req- 
uisites, to insure the digestive action of the saliva. In cooking 
cereals, then, use enough water to swell the grains to their full extent 
bid avoid having the mush too soft, else it is liable to be swallowed 
without mastication. As starch during the process of digestion is 
changed into sugar, sugar as an accompaniment to cereals would 
be contraindicated. Indeed, cooked until quite stiff, they are 
most acceptably served with butter or cream as a vegetable with 
meat and in the place of potatoes. More time is required for the 
conversion of the starch in oatmeal into sugar than for the starch 
in barley, and thus barley would be considered the cereal for 
sedentary people. The large proportion of fat in oats and corn fits 
them more particularly for midwinter consumption. 

COOKING CEREALS 

Breakfast cereals may be boiled or dry-steamed, i.e., cooked in 
a double-boiler; the latter method requires longer time in cooking, 
but it is usually preferred, as less attention is demanded. A sup- 
ply of water needs always be kept in the boiler. A general rule for 
cooking cereals is as follows: add a teaspoonful of salt to a quart of 
water boiling directly over the fire; into this stir about a cup of the 
cereal and, when the mixture boils, after all the cereal has been 
added, set over hot water and cook, without stirring, the requisite 
time. Whole grains of oatmeal require in cooking about six hours, 
hominy four hours, samp eight or more, cracked wheat two hours, 
Indian meal three to six hours, and rice about forty minutes. In 
cooking cereals from packages it is safe to double the time given in 
the directions on the packages. 

SERVING CEREALS 

The various cereals have distinctive yet delicate flavors of their 
own that are usually enjoyed, but occasionally, for the sake oi 
variety, fruit flavors may be added. Sweet fruits would be indi- 
cated. Raisins should be added with the salt to the water in which 
the cereal is to be cooked. After removing the seeds from dates 
cut into quarters and stir into the cooked cereal; cover and return 
to the range long enough to heat the fruit thoroughly. Prunes and 
figs should be stewed previously until tender, then served hot or 
cold with the cereal. Bananas may be sliced without cooking, and 
then served with the hot cereal; but even these will be found to be 
more agreeable, if_they be cooked. 



298 PRACTICAL COOKING AND SERVING 

BALTIMORE SAMP WITH CREAM SAUCE 

Baltimore samp is made of white com. It is very much coarser 
than grits or fine hominy. Cover the samp with boiling water, 
let boil five or six minutes, then drain and rinse. Cover again 
with boiling water, and let cook on the back of the range all day, 
adding boiling water as needed, and shaking the dish occasionally 
to prevent scorching* When nearly cooked, add a teaspoonful of 
salt for each quart of samp. To serve as a vegetable, reheat a cup 
of the samp in a cup of hot white sauce made of cream or rich milk. 
Add also a scant tablespoonful of fine-chopped parsley or two 
tablespoonfuls of grated cheese. 

CORNMEAL RELISH 

Stir one cup of commeal mixed with one cup of milk into two cups 
and a half of boiling water, to which a teaspoonful of salt has been 
added; stir constantly imtil the mush boils, then, occasionally, for 
half an hour or longer. Add an egg, beaten until white and yolk 
are well mixed, a tablespoonful of butter and one fourth cup (or 
more) of grated cheese. Pour into a shallow pan to cool. When 
cold cut into squares or rounds the size of a silver dollar. Arrange 
these in a baking dish that can be sent to the table, in the form of -a 
pyramid, with spaces between. Sprinkle with bits of butter and 
grated cheese. Set in the oven to reheat the mush and melt the 
cheese. Serve very hot. Paprika, or cayenne, may be added. 
The quantity of liquid needed in making the mush will vary. The 
average is four cups of liquid to one of meal. The dry meal may 
be shaken slowly with one hand and stirred with the otier into the 
boiling water. After cooking half an hour directly over the fire, 
the mush may be cooked over hot water an hour or more to advan- 
tage. 

QNOCCHI AU QRATIN 

6 ounces (i cup) of hominy or White sauce. 

Indian meal. Grated cheese. 

4 cups of milk. | cup of cracker crumbs, 

if tablespoonfuls of butter. 3 tablespoonfuls of melted butter. 

I teaspoonful of salt. 

Add the salt and butter to the boiling milk and sprinkle in the 
hominy or meal; stir and cook imtil the mixture becomes a stif 
paste. With two teaspoons shape the mixture into quenelles, and 

I 



POLENTA 300 

poach these in gently boiling stock or water. Drain and arrange 
a layer on a buttered gratin dish, mask with white sauce and 
sprinkle with grated cheese; continue the layers tmtil the materials 
are used, then cover with the crumbs mixed with the melted butter. 
Bake in a very hot oven about ten minutes. This dish is particu- 
larly good, if the quenelles be poached in chicken liquor, and the 
sauce afterward made with that liquor. 

HOMINY BALLS 

Shape a quart of boiled hominy into balls, roll in sifted crumbs, 
then dip in an egg, beaten and diluted with two tablespoonfuls of 
cold water, and again in crumbs, and fry in deep fat. Drain on 
soft paper. Serve as a vegetable, or with maple syrup as a dessert ; 
or add half a cup or more of grated cheese and serve as an entre6. 

OMELET WITH WHEAT-QERM MEAL, WHEATLET, 
CREAM OF WHEAT, ETC. 

Into one cup and a fourth of boiling water, to which one fourth 
teaspoonful of salt has been added, stir two tablespoonfuls of 
wheat-germ meal. Stir and cook over the fire three or four min- 
utes, then cook over hot water untU ready to use. Beat five eggs, 
until a spoonful of the mixture can be lifted; add a few grains of 
pepper and salt, and beat the eggs into the cooked meal. Turn 
into a hot frying-pan, buttered, and cook as a French omelet. Or 
beat the whites and yolks separately; then beat the yolks into the 
meal, fold in the whites and cook as a puffy omelet. 

POLENTA 

2 cups of boiling water. t teaspoonful of salt. 

1 cup of yellow com flour. 2 tablespoonfuls of butter. 

2 cups of cold water. 4 tablespoonfuls of grated cheese 

Mix the com flour with the cold water and stir into the boiling 
water, to which the salt has been added: stir constantly until the 
mixture boils, then, occasionally, for at least half an hour. When 
about half cooked add the butter and cheese. Serve hot (with 
meat) with the sauce given below, or as "commeal relish"; or 
when cold cut in squares, egg-and-bread-crumb and fry in deep fat. 



30O PRACTICAL COOKING AND SERVING 

SAUCE FOR POLENTA, RICE OF MACARONI 

Saute half a dozen mushrooms broken in pieces (if dried mush- 
rooms be used, let soak some hours in cold water), an onion and a 
clove of garlic, cut fine, in half a cup of butter until a golden brown, 
then add half a cup of water and two teaspoonfuls of beef extract 
(or use strong beef stock instead of the water and extract), and let 
simmer five minutes. Strain before serving. 

RICE 

On accoimt of the small percentage of woody fibre, or cellulose, 
found in connection with the starch, rice may be classed as an easily 
digested food. There are many varieties of rice; some contain 
little else than starch and water, while others contain in addition 
a small percentage of gluten. The statement is often made that 
some Eastern people live almost exclusively on rice, but facts do 
not verify these statements. The Chinese and Japanese simply 
use rice as we use bread and potatoes. Combined witii eggs, cheese, 
milk or meat juices rice may be made a representative food, but 
rice alone will not sustain life continuously. 

COOKING RICE 

There are several ways of cooking rice, each of which has points 
of merit, at least, for those who advocate the method. As a rule 
rice-growing people prefer the rice grains less tender than do these 
of Northern climes, just as the Italians prefer macaroni in a state 
which by many would be called an imderdone condition. But soft 
or not, all wish rice dry. The quantity of liquid that the grain 
will absorb depends upon the variety of the rice, the season in which 
it was grown, the time it has been kept, and the liquid used. These 
things affect, also, the time of cooking. Rice will absorb in cooking 
from two and a half to four times its bulk of liquid. When three 
cups of water would suffice, three and a half or four cups of milk 
or tomato puree are required. 

Rice needs to be thoroughly cleansed before cooking. It may be 
washed in several waters, being rubbed, meanwhile, between the 
hands, but the most satisfactory way is to blanch rice. Put the 
rice over a hot fire in a large saucepan of cold water and stir, oc- 
casionally, while it is heating; let boil five minutes, then drain on 
a sieve and pass cold water from the faucet through it. Thp rice 




w 

en 

M 
tn 

w 

O & 
o - 



M 
u 




CABBAGE SALAD No. 2. (See page 322.) 




CELERY AND ORANGE SALAD. (See pages 32 and 329.) 




ENDIVE SALAD. (See page 321-) 



SAVORY RICE 301 

is now beautifully white and clean and the grains do not adhere 
to each other. To cook, return to the fire, covered with the hot 
liquid, whatever this be, in which it is to be cooked, let cook rapidly 
until nearly all the liquid is absorbed, then finish cooking over hot 
water. If the liquid be milk, cook from the first, after blanching, in 
the double-boiler. 

BOILED RICE (JAPANESE COOK) 

Wash the rice thoroughly; cook, in four times as much water, 
directly over the fire. Use a tightly covered saucepan, that the 
moisture or steam may be absorbed by the rice. Have the fire less 
brisk at the last of the cooking than at first. 

PLAIN BOILED RICE 

Cover the blanched rice with a relatively large quantity of salted 
boiling water and let cook rapidly in an uncovered saucepan until 
the grains are tender; drain ofi the water, cover the saucepan with 
a cloth and let stand on the back of the range to dry. Serve in a 
hot dish. 

RISOTTO 

1 cup of rice. li teaspoonful of salt. 

2 tablespoonfuls of butter. Paprika. 

§ an onion. 2 to 3 cups of stock or water. 

I cup of tomato pulp. I cup of grated cheese. 

Put the rice over the fire with plenty of cold water, and let boil 
five minutes, then drain and rinse. Melt the butter in a saucepan, 
add the onion and rice, let cook tmtil the butter is absorbed, then 
add the tomato pulp, salt, paprika, and the liquid; let cook until 
the rice is tender and the liquid absorbed, then stir in the cheese 
carefully. Take out the onion. Use a fork and stir or lift the rice 
carefully, to avoid breaking the grains. Serve very hot. 

SAVORY RICE 

Set a cup of rice over the fire in three pints of cold water, let 
come quicldy to the boiling point, and boil five minutes, then dnio 
through a colander, rinsing with cold water. Return to the fire 
with a quart of boiling water, one teaspoonful of salt, and the juice 
of half a lemon, shake the pan, occasionally, >«t the rice bum, and 



302 PRACTICAL COOKING AND SERVING 

add a little more water if necessary, or set on an asbestos mat, or 
into a pan of water. When tender stir in very carefully one fourth 
cup of butter creamed with a tablespoonfiil of curry powder. 
Serve with meat, particularly chicken or veal. 

TURKISH PILAF 

Set one cup and a half of stock, with one cup of stewed and 
strained tomato, over the fire. When boiling add one cup of well- 
washed or blanched rice and half a teaspoonful of salt; stir lightly 
with a fork, occasionally, until the liquor is absorbed. Then add 
half a cup of butter and cook over hot water until tender; remove, 
cover and stir with a fork before serving. 

RICE WITH BACON 

Parboil three foiulhs cup of rice in boUing water five minutes 
and drain on a sieve. Pour boiling water over one fourth pound 
of bacon, then drain, cut into inch pieces and saut6 to a light yellow 
color. Add the rice, three cups of stock or water, and a dash of 
pepper; let simmer until tender, then add a cup of well-reduced to- 
mato puree (tomatoes passed through a sieve and simmered until 
thick), mix thoroughly, turn in a moimd on a dish, and anange 
curls of fried bacon on the sides of the moimd. 

SAVORY RICE CROQUETTES 

J cup of rice. A piece of red pepper. 

1 cup of stock. I egg. 

2 cups of tomatoes. | cup of grated cheese. 

A slice of onion. i tablespoonful of butter. 

A sprig of parsley. } teaspoonful of paprika. 

2 cloves. j teaspoonful of salt. 

Cover the rice with cold water and bring quickly to the boiling 
point; let boil five minutes, then drain, rinse in cold water and drain 
again. Cook the tomatoes with the Onion, parsley, cloves, and red 
pepper fifteen minutes and pass through a sieve; add to the rice 
with the stock, paprika and salt and cook over hot water, imtil the 
rice is tender and the liquid absorbed, lien add the cheese, butter, 
and beaten egg. Spread on a dish to cool (do not let it become too 
cold), then diape and finish as any croquettes. 



HOT RICE PREPARATION 303 

PLAIN RICE CROQUETTES 

i cup of rice. I teaspoonful of salt. 

r cup of boiling water. Yolks of 2 eggs or i whole egg. 

I cup of hot milk. 2 tablespoonfuls of butter. 

Blanch the rice as above, cook in a double-boiler with the water, 
nulk, and salt, until the rice is tender and the liquid is absorbed; 
stir in the beaten eggs and the butter; let cool and finish as usual. 

RICE, MILANAISE FASHION 

Put two tablespoons of butter into a stewpan, and when hot 
cook in it, without browning, a slice of onion, chopped; then add 
half a cup of rice, thoroughly washed, and about a quart of stock 
(white) or hot water Cook until the rice is tender and the liquid 
is absorbed; then add two tablespoonfuls of grated cheese and salt, 
if needed. Stir gently with fork, turn into a serving dish, and 
sprinkle the top with a little more of the grated cheese. Serve as a 
v^etable, or as a luncheon dish, either with or without a brown 
sauce 

RICE, WITH PARSLEY OR CHIVES 

Cook half a cup of blanched rice in boiling salted water until 
tender (an aluminoid dish will be found usefS for this purpose) ; 
add two tablespoonfuls of butter and one teaspoonfid of fine- 
chopped parsley or chives; mix gently so as to avoid breaking the 
grains, ^^rve as a vegetable. 

RICE, CREOLE STYLE 

Chop fine a white onion and two green peppers, sautd with half 
a cup of raw ham, shredded rather fine, in one fourth cup of 
butter; cook about ten minutes, then add a cup of blanched rice 
and three cups of beef broth, simmer twenty minutes, then add four 
tomatoes, peeled and cut in slices, and one teaspoonful of salt. 
Cover and finish cooking in the oven or in a double-boiler. 

HOT RICE PREPARATION TO SERVE WITH COMPOTES 
OF FRUIT 

Blanch one cup of rice; add salt and one quart of milk or hot 
water and cook until the liquid is absorbed and the rice is tender, 



304 PRACTICAL COOKING AND SERVING 

adding more liquid, if needed. Add one fourth cup of butter, one 
fourth cup of sugar, and, if desired, the grated rind and juice of 
half a lemon or one teaspoonful of vanilla extract; mix thoroughly 
without breaking the kernels of rice. Butter a round basin or a 
border mould and press the rice into this. Set into the oven for 
ten minutes, then turn on to a serving dish. 

RICE FOR SWEET CROQUETTES 

Cook a cup of rice blanched and salted in three cups of milk 
until tender and dry; add three egg yolks, one fourth cup, 
each, of butter, sugar, whipped cream, and candied orange peel 
shredded fine. When cool form into peach shapes, egg-and-bread- 
crumb, and fry in deep fat. Insert angelica for stalks. Serve 
with cold fruit syrup or with fresh fruit dressed with sugar. 

MACARONI 

The Italians axe most skilful in preparing appetizing and eco- 
nomical dishes. The nutritive foodstiiS whidi often forms the 
foundation of these is macaroni, made from a wheat flour rich 
in gluten. At the Italian stores in large dties many quaint styles 
of macaroni may be found. Some are saffron tinted; some for 
soups are shaped like the letters of the alphabet, others are in 
threads, and still others are in plain bands or ribbons and bands 
with a fluted edge. All the different varieties are cooked alike, 
except that some require longer cooking than others. In Italy the 
common name for all varieties is "pasta," macaroni being the name 
for the conomon stick pasta with a hole through it. Spaghetti is 
usually cooked imbroken; the ends of the long slender sticks of 
paste are put into boiling water, and then as the heat and moisture 
soften the sticks they axe coiled in the 6aucq>aji. When tender and 
blanched the cooking and dresdng are the same ae for macaroni. 
Macaroni proper is bxaken into slwrt piecee of luiiform length and 
coc&ed in rapidly boilingsalted water until tender, then drained and 
rinsed in odd wata:. Thus treated the pieces do not adhere, one 
to another, nor is the didi at all mushy. 

MACARONI MILANESI 

Put one fourth cup of butter, or drippings, into the frying-pan 
and when melted saut6 in it an onion, sliced thin, a stalk of celery, 



MOULDED MACARONI AND CHEESE 305 

cut into cubes, and a sprig of parsley; stir, to keep from burning, 
and when of a golden brown add a can of tomato, season with salt 
and pepper and let simmer a:bout half an hour, or until the watery 
juice is evaporated. Meanwhile cook half a package of macaroni 
in boiling salted water; let boil about twenty minutes or until 
tender but in perfect shape, drain and rinse in cold water, then set 
in a hot place. Press the tomato sauce through a sieve fine enough 
to keep back the seeds, but coarse enough to let the pulp pass 
through (it should be of the consistency of thick cream). Dust a 
hot platter with Parmesan cheese, cover with macaroni, pour over 
sauce, add grated cheese, then more macaroni sauce and cheese 
until all is used. Then with a spoon and fork gently tiun the 
macaroni over and over until it is thoroughly mixed with the sauce; 
add a generous sprinkling of cheese t6 the top and serve. Mix 
qulcily that lie macaroni may be served hot. 

MACARONI A LA ITALIENNE 

i pound of macaroni. I teaspoonful of paprika. 

2 tablespoonftils of butter. J cup of brown stock. 

2 tablespoonfuls of flour. i cup of tomato pulp, 

i teaspoonful of salt. well reduced. 

I to J cup of grated cheese. 

Make a sauce of the butter, flour, seasoning, stock, and tomato 
pulp. The tomato pulp should be quite thick from long cooking. 
Add the macaroni, cooked until tender, in boiling salted water, 
rinsed and drained. Reheat in double boiler, adding the cheese 
meanwhile. Serve when the cheese is melted and the whole is 
very hot. 

MOULDED MACARONI AND CHEESE 

Cook three fourths cup of macaroni, broken in small pieces, 
in rapidly boiling salted water half an hour. Drain, then add a 
cup of milk, and cook until the milk is absorbed; then stir into one 
cup of white sauce (use three tablespoonfuls of flour in making the 
sauce), add two tablespoonfuls or more of grated cheese, and, when 
cooled a little, two eggs beaten light. Turn into a buttered border 
mould, sprinkled with bread crumbs, and poach, standing in a pan 
of hot water, about twenty-five minutes. Turn from lie mould, 
and fill the centre with tomatoes stewed with mushrooms. 



306 PRACTICAL COOKING AND SERVING 

TOMATOES WITH MACARONI AND CHEESE 

Cook half a pound of macaroni in rapidly boiling salted water 
until tender. Scald one pint of cream over hot water, add half a 
pound of cheese, cut in Uiin shavings, and stir tmtil the cheese is 
melted; add a dash of salt and papnka. Have ready, in a serving 
dish, five or six baked tomatoes (skin and core removed before 
baking); dispose the macaroni in a wreath around the tomatoes, 
pour Uie cheese mixture over the whole, and serve very hot. 

MACARONI AU GRATIN 

Mix three fourths cup of macaroni, that has been cooked as 
usual, with a cup of cream or tomato sauce; add from one fourth 
to half a cup of grated cheese, turn into an au gratin dish, cover 
with buttered cracker crumbs and set into a hot oven to brown the 
crumbs. 

BAKED MACARONI AND CHEESE 

Put cooked macaroni and grated cheese into an au gratin dish in 
alternate layers, cover with milk and let cook until the cheese is 
melted and the milk is partly absorbed. One or two beaten eggs 
may be added with the milk and the whole baked slowly imtil the 
egg is set. 

MACARONI AND CHEESE, GARNISH OP WELSH RABBIT 

gaxnish: 
} pound of macaroni. i pound of cheese. 

i pound of cheese. } cup of cream. 

i pound of butter. The yolk of i egg. 

Salt and paprika. Salt and paprika. 

Cook the macaroni as usual, grate the cheese and melt the butter. 
Put the macaroni, cheese and butter in layers in a baking dish that 
will stand the heat of the oven; sprinkle each layer witti salt and 
pepper, and set the dish into the oven. Melt the second quarter 
pound of cheese, add the salt and pepper, and, very gradually, the 
yolk of the egg, beaten and diluted with the cream; stir constantly 
while the cheese is melting and until the mixture is smooth. Spread 
upon diamond-shaped pieces of bread toasted upon one side, plac- 
ing the rabbit upon the untoasted side. Dispose these on the top 
of the macaroni and serve at once. 



CHAPTER XI 
Chafing Dish Cookery and Services 

"Let him then be boiled gently over a chafing dish with wood coles." 

— IzAAK Waltoh. 
"The meats were kept warm by chafing dishes." 

— Prescott, "Conquest of Mexico." 

The origin of the chafing dish dates back to the period of un- 
xrritten history. Its use was common at least two thousand years 
ago. Like the brazier, chafing dishes were once made of bronze 
and rested on the floor. As occasion demanded they were carried 
from room to room by means of handles on the sides. The authepsa 
of the Greeks and Romans — a saucepan of Corinthian brass — 
was also a species of chafing dish, having several features of the 
modem chafing dish. All of these appliances were a combination 
oi saucepan and heat generator, though the authepsa was probably 
used simply to heat water or to keep it hot. Formerly the heat 
was supplied by live wood coals or the flame of burning oil. The 
ancient dishes were intended for gentle cooking or simmering, and 
for keeping hot food that had been cooked by other means. This 
is the rightful province of the modem chafing dish and all other 
cooking, save that of a gentle simmering, should be left for some 
more appropriate utensil. 

This degr^ of heat, that of simmering, is well adapted to the 
cooking of eggs, oysters, -and cheese, and the reheating of cooked 
materials in a sauce, the sauce having been first made in the blazer 
of the chafing dish. 

l^e blazer, a hot-water pan and a lamp are the indispensable 
parts of the chafing dish — the hot-water pan is sometimes, 
though erroneously, omitted. A tray upon which the dish may 
rest, while the lamp is lighted, insiu-es the tablecloth against fire 
from below. Light wooden spoons, shaped from French apple 
tree or olive wood, and highly polished, are light and noiseless, and 
thus suitable for dining-room cookery. The bowls of such spoons 
being very small, silver forks and spoons, designed especially for 

307 



3o8 PRACTICAL COOKlIfG AND SERVING 

serving, are called into requisition when the cooking has been 
completed. 

Often young people, whose experience in cooking is limited, 
inquire, How are we to know when to use the hot-water pan? To 
the amateur cook, who is desirous of making a success of chafing- 
dish cookery, we would suggest the perusal of Chapter II. They 
will then readily understand that if roux is to be made for the 
thickening of a sauce, the blazer should be set directly over the 
flame, in order to secure the strong heat necessary to cook starch. 
Also that, if eggs are to be added to a mixture, or if milk is to be 
heated or cheese melted, the hot-water pan should be in place, to 
temper the heat ever inimical to the digestibility of nitrogeneous 
substances. 

FUEL 

When alcohol is to be used in the lamp of the chafing dish the 
best is none to good and, in the end, is the cheapest. 

With the ordinary chafing-dish lamp, in which the alcohol is 
burned in a cup filled with asbestos stone, covered with a wire 
netting, the alcohol is turned into the lamp through a central 
opening. As soon as the lamp is filled, the cap covering this open- 
ing should be fitted in place and kept in place until the alcohol is 
consumed, otherwise it is impossible to control the flame. The 
filler is a desirable utensil, when the alcohol needs be renewed. 
The lamp usually holds about one fourth cup; this, if of good 
quality, will bum about half an hour. A similar fuel in solid form 
is now prepared for this use. Any make of chafing dish may be 
heated with gas or electricity, if it be connected with the supply. 
A gas burner or an electric stove may be fitted inside the frame of 
the chafing dish, then with rubber tubing for gas, or flexible cord 
for electricity, the frame may be connected with the supply that 
is used for lighting the room. At stores, where gas appliances are 
on sale, may be found portable frames fitted with gas burners and 
with rubber tubing attached, upon which the hot-water pan or 
blazer is set for cooking. 

Unless gas or electricity be the fuel, chafing-dish cookery con- 
simies much time and is not adapted to general use; but the sick 
room, the Simday night tea, and the means for diversion on a 
stormy day, to say nothing of the little "snack" after "the play", 
will afford abimdant opportunities in which to test the virtues of 
many a dish that, eaten at its best, should be served the instant it 
is perfectly cooked, 



REGARDING "RABBITS" 309 

As the chafing dish stands very high above the ordinary dining- 
room table, the first requisite to ease in cooking is a chair vrith a 
rather high seat. Also a hassock beneath the table for the feet is 
convenient for her who keeps watch over the contents of the blazer. 
As this meal is often prepared and served without the assistance 
of a maid, everything should be in readiness beforehand; and, when 
space allows, Uie greater part of the food for the meal may be in 
place while the cooking is going on. A tray holding the cups, 
spoons, etc., needed in cooking is a convenience on the dining table, 
but when this necessitates a crowded table, a small table at the left 
of the "cook" maybe drawn upon for this purpose. If this be 
upon casters, it may be wheeled aside after the hot course from the 
chafing-dish has been disposed of, and thus is made a comparatively 
easy solution of the problem of soiled dishes on the table. Hors 
d'cpuvres, substantial or otherwise, according to the occasion, form 
a fitting first course of the chafing-dish meal and take up the time 
while the cooking is going on. 

REQARDINQ RABBITS 

Any of the various forms of rabbit or rarebit, the bright and 
particular gem of the cook's repertoire for the chafing dish, may be 
made successfully, coming out smooth and delectable, provided 
only they be stirred constantly and cooked mthotU boiling. 

An expert does not require the hot-water pan, imtil the cooking 
is completed and serving is in order; because ^e lifts the blazer 
from the fiame oft and again whenever her practised eye discerns 
that boiling is imminent at any point. The amateur needs to use 
the hot-water pan from start to finish. Every one who essays a 
rabbit knows that stirring, indefatigable and untiring, is also a sine 
qua non of the perfect dish. American factory cheese gives the 
foundation for these tidbits; the softer it is, the more readily will 
it melt upon the application of heat, a condition devoutly looked 
forward to by the novice. Any of the fancy brands of potted 
cheese may be added in small quantities for a change of flavor The 
mild paprika is the favorite pepper, and soda is added to replace 
the salts lost in the whey during the cheese-making process. 
Recipes for " rabbits " are given under the chapter on Cheese. For 
variation, try spreading the toast with anchovy paste, or add to the 
rabbit just before serving a few anchovy fillets, picked into small 
pieces. 



3IO PRACTICAL COOKING AND SERVING 

OYSTERS 

In purchasing oysters for chafing dish, as for all cookery, if 
possible, see them taken from the shells. Oysters, in bulk, are 
usually treated with "preservatives"; and those who have looked 
into the subject, even casually, know that we are being "preserved 
to death" by eating veritably embalmed and preserved food 
products. For all sorts of stews, creamed and curried dishes, let the 
oysters, freed from shell and washed, stand in a pitcher from which 
they may be readily turned into the blazer. 

OYSTERS WITH CREAM 

li cups of cream. The yolks of two eggs. 

2 dozen oysters (well drained). Salt and pepper. 

Scald a cup of cream in the blazer over hot water, and add the 
oysters, washed and freed from bits of shell; when the oysters begin 
to look plump and the edges frill, add the yolks, beaten and diluted 
with one fourth cup of cream, with about half a teaspoonful of 
salt and a dash of pepper. Serve on buttered toast. 

OYSTER STEW 

i} cups of rich milk. 2 tablespoonfuls of butter. 

i dozen oysters. Salt and pepper. 

i cup of cracker crumbs 

Scald the milk over hot water and add the oysters. When they 
look plump, add the crumbs, butter, and seasoning. Serve with 
crackers. 

OYSTER STEW NO. 2 

Make a sauce in the blazer of two tablespoonfuls, each, of butter 
and flour and a cup of rich milk; if the flavor be wished, sauti a 
slice of onion in the butter without letting either the butter or 
onion take color; add the oyster liquor, previously strained, and 
when again hot add the oysters. Season and serve as soon as the 
oysters look plvmip. 

CREAMED DISHES 

Eggs, oysters, lobsters, crabs, shrimps, fish, chicken or lamb, 
tongue, etc., peas, asparagus tips, etc., are the ingredients usually 



LOBSTER, CREOLE STYLES 311 

selected for these dishes. Make a white sauce, using stock, milk 
or cream, or a part of each as the liquid; season with a few drops of 
onion juice, chopped parsley, celery salt, paprika or curry powder, 
and add the cooked article; oysters need be parboiled and drained 
before being added to the sauce or the large quantity of liquid in 
them will change the dish to a stew. Fish is improved for a creamed 
dish by standing in a marinade (lemon and onion juice, chopped 
parsley, salt and pepper) some hours before reheating in the chafing 
dish. 

SHAD ROE CREAMED AND CURRIED 

Cook the roe in salted, acidulated water; let the water sirmner 
very gently, to avoid breaking the outside skin of the roe. Cut 
the roe in scallops or cubes, marinate with lemon and onion juice, 
salt and pepper, cover and let stand some hours. When ready to 
serve prepare a white sauce in the blazer, add the roe and let stand 
over hot water to reheat. Sweetbread and calf's brains are par- 
ticularly good prepared in the same way. A tablespoon! ul of curry 
powder added with the flour gives a diange from the usual white 
sauce. 

HALIBUT AND LOBSTER A LA HOLLANDAISE 

I pound of raw halibut. i cup of butter. 

I two-pound lobster. The yolks of four eggs. 

Salt and paprika. i cup of hot water. 

The juice of half a lemon. 

Cut the fish in inch cubes and cook until tender in salted acid- 
ulated water, or stock made from the trimmings of the fish and the 
body bones of the lobster with a few bits of vegetable; drain the 
fish and when cold add to it the flesh of the lobster, cut into cubes, 
a dash of salt and paprika, and the juice of half a lemon; set aside 
until ready to use. Put into the blazer, over hot water, the butter, 
beaten to a cream, and beat into this, one at a time, the yolks of four 
eggs, then gradually one cup of hot water; when all the water has 
been added and the sauce is smooth and thick, stir in the fish and 
lobster with the lemon juice. Serve as soon as the mixture is hot. 

LOBSTER, CREOLE STYLE 

I sweet green pepper, seeded. i tablespoonful of onion juice. 

I tomato, peeled and seeded. 2 tablespoonfuls of butter. 

t silice of onion or if cups of chicken broth- 

3 two-pound lobsters, 



312 PRACTICAL COOKING AND SERVING 

Chop fioe the pepper, tomato and onion and cook in the buttv 
until softened; add the broth, let simmer five minutes, then add 
the lobster meat, cut in small pieces, and salt if needed. Serve 
very hot. 

SCRAMBLED EQQS WITH ANCHOVIES OR SARDINES 

Drain the anchovies or sardines, to free them from the oil of 
the can, then remove skin or scales and bones and pick the fillets 
into small pieces. If salted anchovies be used, soak in milk or 
water six or more hours. Beat five eggs slightly; add salt and pep- 
per, as desired, and five tablespoonfuls of water, milk or cream. 
Melt two tablespoonfuls of butter in the blazer directly over the 
flame and put in the pieces of fish (there should be half a cup more 
or less, as taste approves), shake the blazer a moment, then 
turn in the egg mixture and cook as scrambled eggs. 

EQQS SCRAMBLED WITH CHEESE 

Beat five eggs tmtil a full spoonful of egg can be taken vp', add 
a few grains, each, of salt and pepper, five tablespoonfuls, each, of 
cream or water, and grated cheese, turn into a hot blazer, oiled with 
butter, and cook and stir until the mixture is lightly set, then serve 
at once. 

SCRAMBLED EQQS WITH TOMATOES AND QREEN PEPPER 

Remove the seeds and veins from a green pepper and cut it in 
shreds. Scald five tomatoes, remove the skins, and cut in quarters ; 
cook the pepper and tomatoes in two tablespoonfuls of butter until 
the liquid is reduced, then season with salt and keep hot. Melt 
two tablespoonfuls of butter in a second blazer, pour in six eggs, 
beaten without separating, until a fuU spoctoful can be taken up, 
and season with ^t. Stir and cook until the eggs become tMoc 
and creamy; add, meanwhile, two tablespoonfuls of butter in pieces. 
Serve the two dishes together. 

SWEETBREADS A LA NEWBURQ 

Heat one cup of cream in the blazer over hot water. Add on« 
cup and a half of sweetbreads, parboiled, cooled, and cut in cubes. 
B^t the yolks of three eggs, add a scant half teaspoonful of salt 



GURRY OF MACARONI 313 

and a few grains of cayenne, dilute, with a little of the hot cream, 
and stir into the mixture. Stir until thickened slightly Add 
half a cup of sherry -wine, then serve at once. Half a cup of cooked 
mushrooms is an improvement to the disk. Calf's brains may 
be substituted for a part or all of the sweetbread. Oysters, fish, 
chicken, etc., may be prepared in the same manner. 

CRABS A LA CREOLE 

i cup of butter. | cup of white stock. 

a tablespoonfuls of sweet i cup of crab meat or 

Spanish pepper, chopped. 4 soft shell crabs, cut in halves. 
2 tablespoonfuls of onion, chopped. } cup of sliced mushrooms. 
I cup of tomato pur£e. Salt as needed. 

Melt the butter; cook in it the pepper, onion, and mushrooms 
five minutes, then add the stock and tomato pur^e; let boil, then 
add the crab meat, cover and let simmer over hot water ten 
minutes. 

CREAMED CHICKEN, POTATOES AND PEPPERS 

Saute half a green pepper, chopped fine, in three tablespoonfuls 
of butter five or six minutes. Add three tablespoonfuls of flour 
and half a teaspoonful of salt. When frothy, add gradually a cup 
of chicken stock and half a cup of cream, stir until smooth and at 
the boiling point, then set over hot water and heat in the sauce one 
cup of chicken, cut in cubes, and half a cup of cold cooked potatoes, 
also cut in cubes. Turnip, carrot, peas, or asparagus tips may be 
substituted for the potato. 

CURRY OF MACARONI 

Melt two tablespoonfuls of butter; cook in it two slices of onion 
until the onion becomes of a pale straw color, then add two table- 
spoonfuls of floiur, one tablespoonful of curry powder, one fourth 
teaspoonful of salt, and a dash of pepper. When blended with 
the butter, add gradually one cup of milk, and stir until smooth 
and boiling. Then strain over one cup of macaroni, cooked until 
tender in boiling salted water, and then drained and rinsed in cold 
water. Reheat and serve. Two tablespoonfuls of tomato pulp 
may be added, if desired. 



314 PRACTICAL COOKING AND SERVING 

ASPARAGUS X LA INDIENNB 

Make a curry sauce as above, and beat into it a cup of cooked 
asparagus tips (fresh cooked or canned). Serve with sippets of 
toast, or with finger-length bits of bread, sautdd in the blazer. 

HOT HAM SANDWICHES 

Spread slices of bread, cut for sandwiches, with chopped ham, 
seasoned with a little mustard and press the slices together in pairs. 
Beat an egg, add half a cup of rich milk and soak file sandwiches 
in the mixture a few moments. Heat a tablespoonful or more of 
butter in the blazer and in it brown the sandwiches, first on one 
side and then on the other. Drain on soft paper and serve at once. 

MUTTON RECHAUFF6 

To a pint of thin slices of cold mutton, neatly trimmed, add the 
juice of half a lemon, a teaspooUful of onion juice, a tablespoonful 
of fine-chopped parsley, half a cup of cold stock (that in which the 
mutton was cooked will do), and a teaspoonful of Worcestershire 
sauce ; let the meat stand two or three hours. Make in the blazer a 
cup and a half of rather thick sauce ; add the meat and such liquid as 
has not been absorbed, salt and pepper, and a teaspoonful of capers 
or fine-chopped cucumber pickles. Let stand over hot water imtil 
very hot. Serve on toast, or with mashed potato cakes, saut6d in 
a second blazer. 

SALMI OF DUCK WITH QREEN PEAS 

Saut6 three or four slices of bacon, cut in small squares, with a 
tablespoonful of fine-chopped young onions; when delicately 
colored, add one fourth cup of nut-brown flour, then, gradually, 
one cup and a half of stock, made from the trimmings of the duck, 
and a sprig or two of mint; let simmer five or six minutes, then add 
a cup of meat, cut from cold roast duck, and a cup of cooked 
green peas. Let heat over hot water, season with salt and pepper, 
remove the mint and serve. 

CURRY OF DUCK 

Saut6 two or three thick slices of onioa in one fotirth cup of 
butter; add one fourth cup of flour, and one tablespoonful of curry 



CHOCOLATE SOUFFLE 315 

powder; when well blended add, gradually, two cups of stock made 
from the trimmings of the duck with a little beef or fowl, salt and 
pepper, half an apple, grated, and the juice of an orange; let simmer 
five minutes; then remove the onion and add two cups of tender 
duck meat, cut in thin slices; let stand over hot water xmtil thor- 
oughly heated. This dish, as all curries, is at its best when re- 
heated. Prepare as above, and if the duck is not tender, let the 
slices simmer in the sauce until they are tender, then set aside until 
the time of serving and reheat over hot water. 

ORANGE OMELET. (PAULINE DOUGHTY) 

5 eggs. 5 tablespoonfuls of powdered sugar. 

5 tablespoonfuls of orange jmce. A few grains of salt. 
The grated rind of one orange. Sliced oranges. 

Beat the yolks of the eggs until lemon colored and thick; add the 
orange rind and juice and the sugar; fold in the whites, beaten very 
light, with the salt. Oil the chafing dish with one tablespoonful 
of butter, turn in the mixture, and cook over hot water fifteen or 
twenty minutes. Brown slightly by holding the blazer directly 
over the flame. Extinguish the lamp and serve, without folding, 
from the blazer with a dressing of sliced oranges and powdered 
sugar. 

DEVILLED CHESTNUTS 

Roast the chestnuts, after removing a small piece of shell, until 
tender; remove the shells and inner skin. Put a tablespoonful of 
butter into the blazer and when hot saute in this a cup of the 
roasted chestnuts; sprinkle with salt and paprika. Serve with 
the cheese and salad course, or with a rabbit. 

CHOCOLATE S0UFFL6 

3 ounces of unsweetened chocolate, j teaspoonful of vaniUa extract, 
i cup of granulated sugar. 2 eggs. 

4 tablespoonfuls of hot water. | cup of cicam. 
i teaspoonful of salt. i cup of milk. 

i teaspoonful of cinnamon. 

Melt the chocolate over hot water, then add the sugar and hot 
water and cook directly over the flames until smooth and glossy. 
Beat the yolk of the eggs, dilute with a tablespoonful of the cream, 



3i6 PRACTICAL COOKING AND SERVING 

add the rest of the cream and the milk to the chocolate mixture 
aad stir until it boils. Set the blazer into the hot-water pan, add 
the yolks and, when blended with the hot mixture and thickened 
slightly, fold in the stiff beaten whites of the eggs and cook over the 
hot water ten minutes or tmtU the whites of the eggs are set and the 
mixture is spongy. Serve with whipped cream, sweetened and 
flavored with vanilla before whipping. 

QRAPE-JUICE SPONQB 

Scald one pint of grape juice in the blazer, stir in one fourth cup 
of any quick-cooking tapioca, mixed with half a cup of sugar, then 
set the blazer over hot water and cook, stirring occasionally, until 
the tapioca is transparent; then add the juice of half a lemon and 
a few grains of salt and fold in the stiff-beaten whites of two eggs. 
Serve with cream and sugar. 



CHAPTER XII 
Salads, Sandwiches and Hors d'CEuvres 

SALADS AND SALAD MAKING 

"An olive, capers, or some better salad." — Ben Jonson. 

"Our Garrick's a salad, for in him we see 
Oil, vinegar, sugar and saltness agreel" — Goldsmiih. 

Certain uncooked plants, fruits, and nuts, also cooked vege- 
tables and meats, seasoned with condiments and dressed with oil, 
cream or butter slightly acidulated, constitute what is known as 
salads. 

Long ago in the time of Virgil many ingredients were brayed to- 
gether in a mortar to produce some delectable dish, but without 
doubt even then as now the simpler the salad the better it was. 
"Striving to better, oft we mar what's well." 

The list of plants eaten tmcooked as salads by people in general 
is small, and it has scarcely been added to since the days of an- 
tiquity. Lettuce, known since the earliest times, and cultivated 
in England for more than two hundred years, has always been the 
favorite salad plant, though radishes were once served on plates 
of gold — emperors vying with one another to secure the greatest 
degree of transparency in the vegetable. Black radishes, cul- 
tivated in the times of the Romans, are no longer in great demand. 
The varietiesof lettuce are numerous, but all belong to two principal 
groups: the cabbage lettuce, named from similarity in growth to 
the vegetable whose name it bears, and the cos lettuce, the long, 
firm leaves of which form a long, erect head. Romaine belongs to 
this class. Celery, cucmnbers and cabbage divide the honor of a 
second position, then follow watercress, endive, escarole, pepper- 
grass, dandelion, purslane, and sorrel. Hothouse cucumbers and 
lettuce are now largely grown by the aid of electric lights. Dan- 
delion, cultivated in rich soil, is broad-leaved (comparatively), 
tender and easily made crisp. It is usually blanched for use in 

317 



3X8 PRACTICAL COOKING AND SERVING 

salads. When the leaves first appear, the plant is covered with 
a saucer or flower pot, then, when the leaves are of sufficient size, 
they are beautifufly white. When cleaned, crisped, dried, and 
dressed with French dressing the dandelion makes a most healthful 
salad. Purslane and sorrel are used in combination with other 
plants and obviate the use of acid in the dressing. There are but 
few cooked vegetables, if there be any, that cannot, either in com- 
bination or singly, be served as salads; of all it may be said, as 
Gerarde said of asparagus, "The first sprouts and tender shoots be 
oftentimes sodden in flesh broth and eaten boiled in faire water, 
and seasoned with oil, vinegar, and pepper, they are served up as 
a salad." 

Olive oil, the dressing par excellence of a salad, is a form of fat 
that, eaten in moderation, agrees with almost every one; its use 
gives "strength and suppleness." It lubricates the alimentary 
tract and acts as a germicide. Its use is strongly advocated in 
health as well as in all wasting disease. The first requisite in salad 
plants is crisp tenderness. Tenderness is secured by quick growth 
in rich soil with plenty of moisture and suitable light: we say 
suitable, as many are made tender as well as white by blanching 
or growing away from the light. Crispness is usually secured by 
proper care in the kitchen. After thorough cleaning, let stand 
about half an hour in very cold water, to which a Uttle lemon 
juice or vinegar has been added. Gather green vegetables from 
the garden in the early morning or after sunset, keep in a cool place, 
closely wrapped in paper or in a dosed vessel (a tin pail is a con- 
venient utensil), to exclude the air. To avoid a rusty appearance 
— especially is this the case with celery — postpone the use of 
water until a short time before serving. 

CLEANSING SALAD PLANTS 

Too much care cannot be exercised in cleansing salad plants. 
First of all, cut ofi the earthy root, remove coarse or discolored 
leaves, and wash thoroughly; each leaf of lettuce needs careful 
attention, lest the tiny insects of the same color as the lettuce it- 
self, whidi so often infest the plant, be retained; watercress needs 
careful attention for the same reason. Crisp as above, then dram 
and swing lightly in wire basket (salad plant drainer) or in a coarse 
net or piece of cheesecloth. Wipe each leaf of lettuce without bruis- 
ing it; dry shredded cabbage, sliced cucumbers, radishes, celery, 
etc., between folds of soft cheesecloth; then let stand exposed to the 



POINTS IN SALAD MAKING 319 

isiir a few moments. This careful drying is necessary, as oil and 
water do not commingle and a salad is perfectly dressed only when 
each individual leaf or bit of vegetable is lightly coated with oil 
or appropriate dressing. 

PREPARATIONS OF SALAD MATERIALS 

Formerly it was considered a culinary sin to cut lettuce with a 
knife: the proper thing was to shred the leaves with the fingers. 
Steel knives gave an unpleasant taste to the dressed salad, but by 
use of a silver or silver-plated knife the trouble is obviated. Before 
dressing, if quickly done, lettuce may be cut with any kind of a 
clean, well-poUshed knife. The varieties of cos lettuce may be 
more artistically arranged, especially in compound salads, if the 
leaves be cut in ribbons of tmiform width. Lay the leaves 
one above another in a pile, then cut through all at once. 
It certainly would be a sin against beauty to cut tiie delicate heart 
leaves of cabbage lettuce. 

A thick paring shoiild be cut from cucumbers. Radishes make 
an effective looking salad when sliced without removing the pink 
sldn; both should be sliced or cut in uniform pieces. Cubes of 
cucumber rather than slices give variety. Cooked vegetables 
should be firm, that they may be cut in neat pieces of uniform 
shape and size. For this reason, new potatoes are better than old. 
Salad herbs and plants have but little food value: they are simply 
appetizers. In complex salads, or salads of many ingredients, 
nutritious food materials are mixed with those that are simply 
savory, or spicy and crisp, and such salads not only tempt the ap- 
petite, but satisfy it. These nutritious articles, whether cooked 
vegetables, meat or fish, before being combined wit> the crisp 
plants, are usually marinated or allowed to stand some time in a 
French dressing, all or a part of which they will absorb. 

DRAINING SALAD MATERIALS 

When mayonnaise or a thick boiled dressing is to be used with 
salad material that has been marinatedf the marinade is carefully 
drained off, lest it thin the dressing that is to be added. 

POINTS TO BE REMEMBERED IN SALAD MAKING 

(i) Salad herbs and plants should be clean, cold and ciisp. 
(2) Salad materials that are cut should be neat and symmetrical 
in shape. 



3£o PBACnCAL COOKING AND SERTTlfG 

(3) Meat, fish, etc., and most cooked vegetables, used in salads, 
should be well marinated and cold before mixing with crisp plants 
and sauce. 

(4) The ingredients composing the salad should not be com- 
bined until the last moment before serving. 

FRENCH DRESSING 

(for uncooked OS COOKED VEGETABLES AND FOR MASINATING 
COOKED SALAD UATERIALS) 

i teaspoonful of salt. 6 tablespoonfuls of oil. 

i teaspoonful of fiesh ground 2 to 6 tablespoonfuls of lemon juice 

pepper. or vinegar. 

A few grains of cayenne, paprika or black pepper. 

If desired: 

A few drips of onion juice, or the salad bowl may be nibbed with 
a slice of onion, or clove of garlic. 

Mix the condiments — a Kttle mustard is approved by some — 
add the oil and, when well mixed, add the acid, a few chops at a 
time, and beat until an emulsion is formed, then pour over the 
prepared materials and toss with the spoon and fork imtil the 
dressing has been absorbed. No dressing should remain in the 
bottom of the bowl and the leaves or other materials should be 
glossy with oil; if they look dry more dressing is needed. Claret 
vinegar is often used with lettuce salad. Recipes for mayonnaise 
and boiled dressings may be found on pages 214 and 216. 

The former, although given first, is not Qie best approved manner 
of dressing a salad with French dressing. Mix the pepper and salt, 
the pepper if possible should be ground at the moment (tiny china 
or wo«>d spice mills may be bought for table use), then add the oil 
and when the salt is dissolved or taken up by the oil sprinkle this 
upon the prepared salad, then turn the leaves over and over as 
before and finish with the lemon juice or vinegar. Lemon juice, 
which is a natural add, is "far and away" preferable to any variety 
of vinegar, any one of which if not a "manufactured" product is at 
least a product of fermentation. The quantity of acid used depends 
upon the variety of salad and individual taste, but a salad is not 
intended for an acid dish. The acid flavor may be made more 
pronounced by adding the acid first (instead of the oil) with the 
condiments and the oil last. 



POTATO SALAD WITH FRENCH DRESSING 3»i 

ENDIVE SALAD 

If the endive be wilted, revive by setting the stalk in water 
(avoid wetting the leaves). Use the well-blanched leaves only; 
wipe these with a damp cloth. Just before serving, dress with 
French dressing made with tarragon vinegar. Garnish with slices 
of radish and a whole radish cut to resemble a flower. Or serve in 
rings of green or red pepper, sprinkling with a tablespoonful of 
minute pearl onions. 

ASPARAGUS SALAD 

Asparagus alone or in combination with lettuce or cooked vege- 
tables is served with French, mayonnaise or boiled dressing. It 
is good with cooked chicken or egg and mayonnaise dressing. 

ASPARAGUS SALAD MOULDED IN ASPIC 

Put a little chicken aspic in a charlotte mould standing in ice 
water; when set arrange upon it slices of hard-boiled egg and as- 
paragus points. Dip cooked asparagus tips in aspic and press 
against the chilled sides of the mould; when firm £11 with aiteniate 
layers of asparagus mixed with jelly mayonnaise and aspic jelly^ 
Serve on a larger mould of the same with lettuce and mayoniiaiBe. 

POTATO SALAD 

Dress one quart of cold, boiled potato balls, cut from raw por 
tatoes, blanched and cooked untQ tender, in the order given, with 
half a teaspoonful of paprika, two teaspoonfuls of salt, six table- 
spoonfuls of oil, a tablespoonful of onion juice and six tablespoonr 
fuls of vinegar, in which beets have been pickled; toss the balls 
aiter the addiiion of each ingredient. Garnish with pickled beets. 
ServB In lettuce nests with cold meat. 

POTATO SALAD* WITH FRENCH DRES^NO 

Rub the inade of a salad bowl with a dove of gaj-llc, cut in halves. 
M'T a quart of cold boiled potatoes, cut in small cubes, with half 
a small onion, grated, and a tablespoonful of fine-cut parsley. 
Sprinkle with salt and pepper and five or six tablespoonfuls of oil, 
and toss until evenly mixed; then toss again with three tablespoon- 
fuls of vinegar, £et stand in a cool place a little time before 
serving. 



322 PRACTICAL COOKING AND SERVING 

POTATO SALAD WITH BACON (HOT) 

Cut one fourth pound of tender sliced bacon into tiny bits, 
and fry until a very light brown. Take out the bits of bacon, and 
saute in the fat a small, delicately flavored onion, cut fine. Add 
half as much vinegar as fat, a very little salt, a few grains of cayenne 
and half as much boiling water, or meat broth, as vinegar. Have 
ready potatoes boiled, unpared, until tender in salted water. 
Remove the skins and slice the hot potatoes in the frying-pan, 
enough only to take up the liquid, sprinkle in the bits of cooked 
bacon, toss together and serve. 

TOMATO SALAD 

Plunge small tomatoes, of similar size, in a wire basket, into boil- 
ing water. Remove at once, and cut out a circular piece around the 
stem of each. Remove the skins, and set aside on ice to chill. 
When ready to serve, dispose each tomato on a lettuce leaf seasoned 
with French dressing. Fill each cavity with a spoonful of mayon- 
naise or boiled dressing, and press into the dressing quarters of 
hard-boiled eggs. Before setting aside to chill, tomatoes are 
usually dusted inside with salt, to draw out the liquid, but the salt 
certainly toughens the tomato. 

TOMATO AND CUCUMBER SALAD 

Alternate slices of chilled tomato and cucumber, dressed with 
French dressing, along two sides of a salad bowl, with a line of 
heart leaves of lettuce between. Decorate the slices of tomato 
with stars of mayonnaise dressing. 

STUFFED TOMATO SALAD 

Peel small tomatoes, and cut out the hard pieces around the 
stem ends, to make tomato cups. Sprinkle inside lightly with salt 
and pepper, and fill with equal portions of celery and walnuts, cut 
in pieces and mixed with mayonnaise dressing. Serve on lettuce 
leaves, and garnish with curled celery (see page 32, Chapter IV). 
Pass mayonnaise on a separate dish. 

CABBAGE SALAD 

Cream one fourth cup of butter, and beat into it the yolk, then 
the white of an egg. Add, also, two tablespoonfuls of sugar and 



APPLE AND CRESS SALAD 323 

one fourth teaspoonful, each, of mustard, salt, and paprika. 
Then pour on very gradually, beating constantly, half a cup of 
hot vinegar. Cook over hot water, iintil the mixture thickens a 
little — it should be like thick cream — and let cool before stirring 
into a generous pint of fine-shredded cabbage, prepared for salad. 
This makes an acid dressing. 

CABBAGE SALAD NO. 2 

Beat the yolks of three eggs, half a teaspoonful of mustard 
mixed for the table, two tablespoonfuls of sugar, and one fourth 
teaspoonful of salt. Add two tablespoonfuls of butter, then, 
gradually, five tablespoonfvds of hot vinegar. Stir and cook over 
hot water until the mixture is thick and smooth. Just before 
using, mix with crisp, fine-shredded cabbage. The centre of a 
handsome head of cabbage may be cut out and shredded and the 
shell thus formed used as a bowl from which the salad is served. 
The cabbage bowl may stand upon a hot napkin holding hot fried 
oysters. If the cabbage bowl be chilled, the heat of the napkin 
will not reach the salad. 

CUCUMBER SALAD FOR FISH COURSE 

With a handy slicer or fluted knife remove the outside rind from 
the cucumbers, cut in thin slices, and let stand in ice water to chill, 
retaining the slices in the order in which they were cut. Wipe 
dry, and arrange the slices in the salad bowl in the form of a Greek 
cross. Make a French dressing in the proportion of three table- 
spoonfuls of cider vinegar to six tablespoonfuls of oil, half a tea- 
spoonful of salt, and a dash of paprika. Rub the inside of the salad 
bowl with the cut side of an onion or sprinkle with one tablespoon- 
ful, each, of minute pearl onions and fine-chopped parsley. 

APPLE AND CRESS SALAD (NORMANDY) 

Pare and cut four apples into short, match-shaped pieces. Dress 
with oil, vinegar or lemon juice, salt and paprika. Dress the 
leaves from a bunch of cress in the same manner. Dispose the 
apple in a serving dish, with the cress in a wreath around it. This 
salad will be found particularly appetizing to serve with game, 
domestic ducks, geese, and roast pork. 



324 PRACTICAL COOKING AND SERVING 

FRENCH BEAN SALAD 

Use flageolets, the dried, green beans imported from France. 
These beans are also put up in glass bottles, but the dried are less 
expensive and, probably, more wholesome. Soak in cold water 
several hours, then drain and set to cook in boiling salted water. 
When tender set aside to cool, then dress with French dressing 
made with onion juice. Serve on lettuce leaves. Garnish with 
stuffed olives. Lima beans are particularly good as a salad, so, 
also, are cold Boston baked beans. Any one of these, after being 
dressed, may be sprinkled with fine-chopped parsley, olives, cu- 
cumber pickles, green or red peppers or chives. 

CRESS AND EQQ SALAD 

Dress a bunch of cress with oil, vinegar, salt and pepper. Cut 
the whites of two hard-boiled eggs into eighths, lengthwise, and 
arrange them on the cress to simulate the petals of a flower. Press 
a star of mayonnaise dressing in the centre of the petals. Pass an 
egg yolk through a sieve and arrange around the dressing. Send 
to the table in ttiis form, but toss together when serving. 

CAULIFLOWER AND BEET SALAD 

Dress flowerets of cold cooked cauliflower with oil, salt, pepper, 
and vinegar or lemon juice. Dress the shredded outside leaves of 
a head of lettuce, and a beet, cut in figures, and the chopped trim- 
mings, each, separately, with the same ingredients. Dispose the 
lettuce in the centre of a serving dish, and the carefully drained 
cauliflower above. Sprinkle with the figures cut from the beet, 
and dispose the chopped beet in points aroimd the central mass. 
Serve mayonnaise in a dish apart. 

OKRA SALAD 

Select young and tender okra pods; wash clean, then boil until 
tender; drain and set aside to cool. Cut in slices one fourth 
inch in thickness. If at hand, rub over the inside of the salad 
bowl with the cut side of a dove of garlic, or put in the centre of the 
bowl a cube of bread rubbed with the garlic. Add to the bowl the 
okra, a green sweet pepper, chopped fine, and a little fresh-grated 
horsera(Ush. Sprinkle over a little salt, toss about to distribute the 



BIRD'S NEST SALAD jaS 

salt, then add olive oil, to coat the ingredients lightly; gently toss 
and mix, then add a little vinegar, tarragon preferred. Serve eadi 
portion on a heart leaf of tender lettuce. Shces of fresh tomato or 
cubes of tomato jelly are an effective garnish for an okra salad. 

CHEESE AND CELERY SALAD 

Cut blanched celery stalks into small pieces; add half the bulk 
of Edam cheese broken or cut into bits; dress with French dress- 
ing ; turn into a salad bowl, lined with heart leaves of lettuce. For 
a garnish, remove the centre from half a tomato, cut the edge in 
points to simulate the petals of a flower, and fill with two or three 
celery tips. Serve with bread and butter sandwiches. 

ENDIVE AND EQG SALAD 

Arrange a head of well-washed and dried endive on a salad dish 
with the blanched leaves in the centre. Dispose about the blanched 
heart four hard-boiled eggs, cut into lengthwise quarters. Mix 
half a teaspoonful of salt, a teaspoonf ul of paprika and six table- 
spoonfuls of oil. Stir in gradually three tablespoonfuls of vinegar. 
Pour over the endive and egg. Toss together and serve. 

CELERY, ENGLISH WALNUT AND PIMENTO SALAD 

Add one third cup of beaten cream to three fourths cup of 
mayonnaise, a cup and a half of sliced celery, three fourths cup 
of English walnuts, and two chopped pimentos, after cutting from 
the latter some fanciful figures. Arrange in nests of lettuce, garn- 
ish each with one of the figures, a nut, and celery, and place celery 
tips between the nests. 

BIRD'S NEST SALAD 

Fashion small nests from cooked spinach, chopped and seasoned 
with salt, pepper, oil, and lemon juice. When cold arrange in the 
nests eggs of Neufchatel cheese, flecked with paprika. Shape the 
eggs with the smooth sides of butter paddles. Fill in between the 
nests with dressed lettuce or blanched celery tips. Serve with 
brown bread and butter sandwiches. In serving the nests, use a 
broad-bladed silver knife. 



336 PRACTICAL COOKING AND SERVING 

A NEW SPINACH SALAD. (JULIA D. CHANDLER, 
PHILADELPHIA) 

I Neufchitel cheese. Salad oiL 

4 hard-boiled yolks of eggs. Salt. 

f cup of cooked spinach. Cayenne. 

Sift the yolks of egg and spinach separately; add oil, salt and 
cayenne, to taste, mix all thoroughly, and when well blended shape 
into balls. Serve on white leaves of lettuce with French, mayon- 
naise or boiled dressing. 

CRESS, CELERY AND WALNUT SALAD 

Arrange a wreath of watercress upon a serving dish. Inside 
this place some fine cut celery, and in the centre pile some meats of 
English walnuts, sliced thin. Garnish with sprays of curled celery. 
Sprinkle with salt and pepper, mix thoroughly and dress with oil; 
then mix again, adding half as much vinegar as oil; mix once more 
and serve. 

EQQ AND TOMATO JELLY SALAD 

Cook a pint of tomatoes, a bay leaf, a slice of onion, and a stalk 
of celery fifteen minutes; add one fourth package of gelatine soft- 
ened in one fourth cup of cold water, then strain. Chill four 
cups. Press half a cooked egg, dipped in liquid gelatine, against 
the side of each cup; when set fill with the jelly. UnmotSd on 
shredded lettuce, dressed with French dressing. Serve with 
mayonnaise. 

TOMATO JELLY WITH NUT SALAD 

Prepare a tomato jelly as above, adding, if convenient, half a 
cup of mushroom trimmings or a tablespoonful of mushroom 
catsup. Turn into a round border mould. When cold and turned 
from the mould, fill the open centre with shredded cabbage, pecan 
nuts, and a sweet red pepper, cooked and sliced, mixed with mayon- 
naise or a boiled dressing. 

CELERY JELLY 

Let a cup of celery stalks simmer in three cups of chicken broth 
or water with a slice of onion, a few slices of carrot, and a sprig of 
parsley; strain and season with salt and pepper, To a pint of 



CUCUMBER AND TOMATO SALAD 327 

liquid add one fourth package of gelatine, softened in one fourth 
cup of cold water, and strain again. Tint a delicate green 
if wished. Mould in a ring mould; fill the centre with cubes 
of chicken and English walnuts, broken in pieces and 
dressed with mayonnaise dressing. Surround with heart leaves 
of lettuce, first dipped in French dressing. Chestnuts, roasted or 
boiled, cut in pieces and mixed with mayonnaise, are particularly 
good with celery jelly. The jelly is usually made from the coarse 
outer stalks. But the less fibrous, inner stalks may be used, and 
the pieces served in the jelly; introduce these as pieces of fruit in a 
fruit jelly (see page 468-9). 

STUFFED TURNIP SALAD 

Select small turnips of same size; pare and trim to stand level 
on a plate, pare again with a fluted knife. Cook in boiling water, 
without salt, until tender, drain and sprinkle with salt. Remove 
the centre from each turnip to leaye a thin shell. Prepare French 
dressing, using a tablespoonful of oil and a few drops of onion juice 
for each two tum^s. Turn the turnips in the dressing and set aside 
to chill. To serve fill with cold peas, asparagus tips or tiny string 
beans, cut small, seasoned with Frendi dressing. 

CHICKEN SALAD IN SALAD ROLLS 

Use by measure twice as much chicken as celery — cut the 
chicken in small cubes — do not chop it — and marinate with 
French dressing. When ready to serve, drain, add the celery, and 
mix with mayonnaise dressing. If boiled dressing be used, mari- 
nate the chicken with part of that, adding more with the celery 
when ready to serve. 

SHRIMP AND CUCUMBER SALAD 

Break the shrimps in pieces and marinate with French dressing. 
At serving time, add an equal quantity of chilled cubes of cu- 
cumber; mix with mayonnaise dressing. Shape into a mound and 
cover lightly with whole shrimps and the heart leaves of lettuce. 
Surroimd with sliced cucumbers, dressed with French dressing 
flavored with onion juice. 

SWEETBREADS, CUCUMBER AND TOMATO SALAD 

Marinate a pair of cooked sweetbreads with French dressing, 
chill, drain, and mix with sliced cucumbers and mayonnaise dress- 



3*8 PRACTICAL COOKING AND SERVING 

ing, whitened with whipped cream. Arrange in a salad dish. 
Surround with slices of chilled tomato in nests of lettuce with 
French dressing. On the tomato dispose slices of sweetbread, 
capped with stars of mayonnaise. 

SALMON SALAD 

Let two slices of boiled salmon cool in the liquid in which it was 
cooked; remove the skin and bones and marinate with oil, lemon 
juice, salt and pepper. When ready to serve, drain and dispose 
on lettuce, cut in ribbons and dressed with French dressing. Sur- 
round with a circle of sliced cucumbers. Serve with mayonnaise 
or a cold Bemaise sauce. Sauce Tartare is also good. 

SCALLOP SALAD 

Soak the scallops in salted water; let simmer five minutes in boil- 
ing water; drain, cool, cut in slices and marinate with French dress- 
ing. At serving, drain and mix with an equal bulk of celery; dress 
with mayonnaise; shape in a mound. Mask with mayonnaise. 
Outline designs on the side of the mound with capers; fill the de- 
signs with chopped white of egg and figures cut from beets. 

OYSTER SALAD IN ICE BOWL 

Freeze three fourths inch of water in a large charlotte russe 
moidd. Weight a smaller mould and set upon the centre of the 
ice. Fill the outer mould with water and let freeze. Fill the small 
mould with warm water and lift it out. Line the open space (the 
ice bowl) with lettuce. Fill with layers of "plumped," or scalded 
and chilled, oysters, marinated with French dressing and dressed 
celery or cabbage. In serving the salad, do not disturb the lettuce 
lining. Serve mayonnaise in a bowl apart, or use this for dressing 
the oysters before putting them in place. 

SHAD ROE AND CUCUMBER SALAD 

Gently simmer a shad roe with onion and bay leaf in salted acid- 
ulated water twenty minutes; cool, cut in slices and cubes and 
marinate with French dressing made with onion juice; to the cubes 
of roe add a cucumber, cut in cubes, and mayonnaise to moisten. 



CELERY, APiPLE AND GREEN PEPPER SALAD ^29 

Dispose the salad upon a bed of heart leaves of lettuce. Garnish 
the long sides with sliced cuciunber and the top with sliced roe and 
chillies. 

ORANGE AND ENGLISH WALNUT SALAD 

Slice four peeled oranges lengthwise, dress with three or four 
tabiespoonfuls of olive o& and one tablespoonful of lemon juice. 
Arrange the slices in a mound upon a layer of lettuce leaves. 
Dress one cup of sliced nut meats with one tablepsoonful of oil, a 
dash of salt, and half a tablespoonful of lemon juice and dispose 
upon the centre of the mound. Toss together before serving. 

CELERY AND ORANGE SALAD 

Clean a bunch of celery; fringe a dozen two-inch pieces and make 
all crisp in cold water to which lemon slices have been added. 
Wipe the stalks dry, then cut into bits and dress with French dress- 
ing. Turn on to a serving dish. Garnish with slices of sour 
orange, cut lengthwise of the orange, then in halves lengthwise, 
and the curled celery. Serve with roast duck. 

CELERY, APPLE AND PISTACHIO SALAD 

Let apple and celery, cut julienne fashion and sprinkled with 
lemon juice, stand undl chilled. Mix with mayonnaise dressing, 
to which one fourth cup of blanched and pounded pistachio nuts 
has been added. Garnish with lettuce and rings of apple sprinkled 
with lemon juice, to keep them white; decorate with stars of 
mayonnaise and halved pistachio nuts. For the " rings," cut cored 
apples in slices. 

PINEAPPLE, SWEET BREAD AND PIMENTO SALAD 

Mix cub^ of sweetbread, pineapple, shapes cut from pimentos 
and bits of celery with mayonnaise dressing mixed with whipped 
cream. Shape in a mound and cover mw. dressing. Decorate 
with figures cut from pimentos, and surround with lettuce. At 
each comer dispose a pimento, slashed on the edge, with strips of 
pineapple in the centre, to simulate a bright red flower. 

CELERY, APPLE AND GREEN PEPPER SALAD 

Crisp the stalks of celery by letting them stand in very cold water 
with a slice or two of lemon half an hour. Cut the stalks into 



33° PRACTICAL COOKING AND SERVING 

bits, pare and cut the apples into slices, and the slices into cube! 
or o^er small shapes. Sprinkle with lemon juice to avoid dis 
coloring, and also to flavor. Scald the pepper, from which the seedi 
and veins have been removed, and cut into fine shreds. Mi) 
equal portions of apple and celery with such quantity of pqipe 
as is desired. Also, English walnuts, pecan nuts, or blanchec 
almonds, cut in small pieces, may be added. Mix with mayon 
naise dressing whitened with whipped cream, and serve on lettucf 
leaves. 

GRAPE, ORANGE AND NUT SALAD 

Remove the skins from California grapes — white ones pre- 
ferred — cut in halves, and remove seeds. Blanch an equa 
quantity of English walnuts or pecan nuts, and break in pieces 
Remove peel from several oranges, and cut in lengthwise slices, 
Dress each, separately, with oil and a little lemon juice. Mix and 
serve on heart leaves of lettuce. Pistachio nuts, cut in slices, ir 
place of the almonds, and a garnish of mayonnaise make a hand- 
somer, but more expensive, d&sh. 

BANANA AND PIMENTO SALAD 

Sprinkle sliced bananas with lemon juice, to avoid discoloring, 
Dispose on lettuce leaves, and sprinkle with strips of pimento 
Garnish with mayonnaise whitened with whipped cream. 

COLLEGE SALAD. (MARIA W. HOWARD, BOSTON) 

I cup of Young America cheese. 3 pimentos cut in pieces. 
S Neufchitel cheeses. Paprika. 

10 olives cut in small pieces. Cream. 

Mix the cheese, olives, and pimentos. Season with salt anc 

S>aprika, moisten with cream, ^pe with butter pats, arrange or 
ettuce leaves and marinate with a French dressing. GamiEl 
with pimentos cut in strips and horseradish dressing. 

HORSERADISH DRESSING 

Mix four tablespoonfuls of grated horseradish, one tablespoonful 
each, of lemon juice and vinegar, and three tablespoonfuls oi 
beaten cream. Season with salt and paprika. 



RELISHES AND. HORS D'(EUVRES 331 

DUCK SALAD 

Cut the meat from a cold duck into thin strips or into cubes, 
marinate with salt and pepper and three portions of oil to two of 
sour orange juice. After standing some hours, drain and mix with 
half the quantity, each, of orange carpels, freed from seeds and 
membrane, and bits of celery. Garnish with mayonnaise and half 
slices of orange, from which the peeling has not been removed. 

LOBSTER SALAD 

Marinate the meat of a lobster with French dressing, after cut- 
ting it in cubes; drain and add two or more hard-boiled eggs, 
chopped. Dispose in a mound on a bed of lettuce leaves, letting 
the leaves come out beyond the lobster. Surround the lobster 
with slices of tomato, one overlapping another, each piece holding 
a spoonful of mayonnaise dressing; sprinkle the whole with fine- 
chopped green peppers. 

RELISHES AND HORS D'(EUVRES 

from time out of mind, as the prelude to an elaborate English 
or American dinner, raw oysters with brown bread and butter have 
been served, though conservatively inclined entertainers are 
agreed that, at the best appointed tables, the perfect dinner begins 
with soup. 

Raw oysters on the half shell were the opening wedge to innova- 
tion; and now, even on very formal occasions, the standard Italian 
custom — once considered so very Bohemian — of prefacing the 
meal with little "kickshaws," carefully prepared and served, has 
obtained. In Russia these relishes, or hors d'oeuvres, that serve 
to whet the appetite for the more substantial dishes that are to 
follow, form quite a meal in themselves. Also, the Italian service 
is quite elaborate; dishes, divided into compartments, are provided; 
and in the several compartments are tastefully arranged thin slices 
of tongue, sausage, or ham, potted or devilled meats, caviare, 
turned from its receptacle and garnished with slices of lemon, 
fillets of sardine or anchovies, lobster, oysters, chickens' livers, 
pickles, cucumbers, olives, radishes, bread and butter sandwiches, 
oat biscuit, etc. The respective compartments of the dish are 
appropriately garnished with celery plumes, parsley, cress, pepper 
grass, aspic jelly, etc. 



332 PRACTICAL COOKING AND SERVING 

On formal occasions, perhaps the most satisfactory way of deal- 
ing with this feature of the meal is to place upon the plate of each 
guest just before the dinner is annoimced a single cold canap^ 
For the foundation of these, thin slices of stale brown or white 
bread, prepared as for sandwiches, are needed. The pieces of 
bread should not be more than two inches long and an inch and a 
half wide. First spread them with butter. Then press upon the 
butter, using either plain or fancy butter, such bits of material as 
it is desired to use, taking care to secure proper combinations in 
flavor and color. Similar canapfe may be served at the dose of the 
dinner, with the cheese, though at this stage of the meal pulled 
bread, devilled biscuit, etc., with a bit of celery, an olive, and a tiny 
cube of choice cheese, are in place. 

The fancy butters are easily made, and a new kind may be pre- 
sented on each occasion. The best of butter is, of course, a first 
requisite. This is creamed a little; then sifted material is added 
to secure such tint and flavor as is desired, cress, olives, capers, 
cooked spinach, chopped, pounded, and sifted, give a green tinge 
to butter. Either fish or flesh may be used as the canopy or cover- 
ing. Anchovies may be added to green butter to produce anchovy 
butter, while lobster coral alone gives a reddish color to butter. 
Cooked yolks of eggs, sharpened with capers, are added with ad- 
vantage to almost any fancy butter. When pastes, as of ham, 
sardine, etc., are used, a forcing bag and tube is called into requisi- 
tion to place them neatly upon the bread. Hot savories or hors 
d'oeuvres may be substituted for the cold, either at the beginning 
or at the end of the meal. These include savory souffles of fish or 
cheese, or of highly seasoned ragout mixtures, also various kinds 
of cheese mixtures, Gnocchi, rarebits, etc. All are served in tiny 
paper or pastry cases, or in very small individual portions. In 
all savories, whether hot or cold, three things are essential: small- 
ness in size, neatness and daintiness in appearance, and piquancy 
in flavor. 

OYSTERS AND CLAMS 

Raw oysters and clams are served on the deep half of the shell; 
these rest on plates of broken ice, or on a bed of ice on oyster plates 
devised for the purpose. A lengthwise quarter or a slice of lemon 
is served on each plate; salt, cayenne pepper or paprika and brown 
bread sandwiches are passed at the same time. Sometimes a thin 
slice of cuciunber, dipped in French dressing, is put between the 
bread. 




CREAMED OYSTERS AU GRATIN IN GREEN PEPPERS. 




LOBSTER SANDWICHES. (See page 340.) 




MATERIALS FOR HORS D'OEUVRES. 
Sardines, olives, anchovies, cheese, pate de foie gras, caviare, 
mustard, celery, etc. 




FRESH MUSHROOM COCKTAIL — WITH SANDWICHES 



TOMATO COCKTAIL 333 

OYSTER AND CLAM COCKTAILS 

Oyster and clam cocktails are served from small glasses, or from 
tomatoes, skinned, with centres scooped out to form cups. Oysters 
are also served hot, in scallop or silver shells, or in cocottes or souffle 
dishes; five or six oysters constitute the service. The oysters are 
■seasoned, bits of butter are added and the dish is set into the oven 
long enough to plump the oysters. Surround with tiny sippets of 
toast. Serve lemon, slice or quarter, on each plate. 

FRESH MUSHROOM COCKTAIL 

Allow six mushrooms (caps about an inch and a quarter in 
diameter) for each service. Shorten the stems, peel the caps and 
simmer in boiling water about fifteen minutes; add a little salt 
just before removing from the fire. Skim out the mushrooms and 
set aside to become chilled. Reserve the liquid and the uncooked 
trimmings of the mushrooms to use in some other dish. Set cock- 
tail glasses, each containing three or four tablespoonfuls of choice 
tomato catsup, in the centre of small plates; on each plate dispose 
five heart leaves of lettuce, a mushroom on eaCh leaf, and drop a 
mushroom on the top of the catsup. Serve as an appetizer at 
luncheon or dinner. Three or four crackers or tiny-bread-and- 
butter sandwiches on a separate plate should be set at the upper 
right hand of each cover. Salt, paprika, Worcestershire sauce, or 
lemon juice may be added, at discretion, to the catsup. With an 
oyster fork the mushrooms and lettuce are dipped in the catsup and 

TOMATO COCKTAIL 

Select small, smooth and very choice tomatoes. Peel and chill 
them. When about ready to serve cut them in quarters through 
the stem and blossom ends, then cut these quarters in halves or 
thirds to make pieces of a size suitable for eating. Dispose these 
on crisp lettuce hearts, set on a plate aroimd a tall-stemmed glass. 
Rub a bowl with a clove of garHc, cut in halves, add two table- 
spoonfuls of tomato catsup, one tablespoonful of mushroom catsup, 
one tablespoonful of lemon juice, one fourth teaspoonful of 
Worcestershire sauce and two or three drops of tabasco sauce or 
one fourth teaspoonful of paprika; mix and turn into a tall 
glass. The pieces of tomato and the lettuce hearts are to be 
dipped into the sauce and eaten from an oyster fork. Six p'eces 
of tomato are enough for one service. 



334 PRACTIC/\L COOKING AND SERVING 

COCKTAIL OF BROILED LIVE LOBSTER 

While broiled lobster is specified for this cocktail, the dish may 
be prepared from lobster steamed or boiled. Of course fresh- 
cooked lobster is preferable to camied, but choice canned lobster 
may be used. Set cocktail glasses, each containing three or four 
tablespoonfuls of tomato catsup of best quality, in the centre of 
small plates; on each plate set three or four heart leaves of lettuce, 
a choice mouthful of lobster on each leaf and one on the top of the 
catsup in the glass. With an oyster fork the lobster is dipped 
into the catsup and eaten. Serve as an appetizer at luncheon or 
dinner. Salt, paprika, horseradish, lemon juice, tabasco sauce 
or other seasoning may be added at discretion to the catsup. 

QRAPE FRUIT AND WHITE GRAPE COCKTAIL 

Remove the sections of pulp from grape-fruit, cut in halves, keep- 
ing the pieces as whole as possible. Remove the skin from white 
grapes, cut each grape in halves, crosswise, and take out the seeds. 
Set the pulp, juice and prepared grapes aside in a cool place to 
become thoroughly chilled. When ready to serve, dispose in tall- 
stemmed glasses, sprinkle lightly with confectioner's sugar, table- 
spoonful to each glass, and add a teaspoonful of sherry to each 
glass. The sherry is omitted more often than used. 

OLIVES 

CMives, served as a relish or hors d'ceuvre, should be very cold; 
if convenient, they may be arranged on a bed of ice. 

STUFFED OLIVES WITH PUREE 

Have ready round croutons of cold bread; spread these with pit6 
de foie gras, anchovy paste, or with ham, chicken liver, or smoked 
tongue made into a puree. In the centre of the crouton place a 
pimola (olive stuffed with sweet peppers) and pipe sifted yolk of 
egg, fine-chopped white, fine-chopped aspic or mayonnaise dress- 
ing aroimd it. If pimolas are not at hand, use olives ; cut off a thin 
slice from the broad end of the olive, that it may stand level; then 
with a sharp knife peel the olive round and roimd in a spiral, keep- 
ing close to the stone; press the olive back in shape, and fill the 



ANCHOVY PUREE 33S 

cavity left by the stone with anchovy paste or fillets, pieces of 
pimento, capers, etc.; finish as before. 

CANAPES, INDIAN STYLE 

i cup of cooked ham. i tablespoonful of chutney, 

i cup of cooked chicken. J teaspoonful of curry powder 

i cup of butter. Salt and pepper as needed. 

Pound the ingredients in a mortar; pass through a sieve and 
spread on rounds, diamonds or crescents of bread, fried and 
cooled. Decorate with fine-chopped white and yolk of egg. 

LOBSTER CANAPES 

Cut out diamonds, hearts, or roimds of bread one fourth inch 
thick and two inches in diameter. Spread mth butter, and brown 
in the oven. When cold, ^read with a layer of "green butter.?' 
Upon this spread smoothly a layer of lobster meat, pounded in a 
mortar with butter, pressed through a sieve, and seasoned with a 
little paprika. Above this place a heart leaf of lettuce; above this, 
a thin slice of beet root, shaped with a cutter. Set on the serving 
dish, and force a star or mayonnaise upon the centre of the beet 
root. Thoroiighly chill before serving. For the "green butter": 
to a quarter pound of creamed butter add gradually the pulp 
of six boned anchovies, a tablespoonful of fine-chopped parsley, 
two tablespoonfuls of fine-chopped capers, and spinach pui6t to 
tint. 

LOBSTER CANAPES NO. 2 

Cut, fry, and cool the bread as usual; sprea,d the bread with 
lobster butter; in the centre of each croustade press a large scallop, 
cut from the meat of the lobster tail, previously marinated for an 
hour or more in oil, lemon juice and paprika. Gamiab the edge 
of the canap^ with capers or fine-chopped gherkin or parsley. 

ANCHOVY PUR^E 

4 boned anchovies. i cup of butter. 

2 hard-cooked yolks of eggs. A dash of paprika. 

Pound the above ingredients together in a mortar until smooth : 
then pass through a purfe sieve. 



336 PRACnCAL COOKING AND SERVING 

ANCHOVY CROUSTADES 

Have ready rounds of bread, fried and cooled; spread these with 
anchovy puree and curl upon each an anchovy, drained from oil 
and wiped dry; fill in the centre with sifted yolk of egg, and with a 
bag and very small star tube pipe stars of anchovy puree around 
the edge of the bread. If the anchovies can be separated easily 
into lengthwise fillets, use a single fillet for each croustade. 

SARDINE CANAPES 

Drain the sardines and wipe them with a cloth, to free them from 
the oil of the can ; pick off the skin and divide into fillets if possible. 
Slice a mild onion, put a layer into a dish long enough to take the 
fillets, lay the fillets on the onion, alternating the layers, and pour 
over the fillets a marinade of one part vinegar to four of oil; let 
stand several hours. When ready to serve drain and dispose the 
fillets on bits of bread (a little longer and wider than the fillets), 
spread with butter creamed with a little fine chopped parsley. 
Push a tiny heart, leaf of lettuce, or sprig of water-cress, under the 
ends of each fillet. 

SARDINE CANAPES, NO. 2 

Substitute sardines, freed from skin and bone, for the anchovies 
in anchovy piuree; spread the sardine puree upon rounds of bread, 
fried and cooled; pipe with the puree so as to divide into quarters; 
fill two of these with chopped white of egg and two with sifted yolk 
of egg, or use chopped gherkin, olives, or pickled beet with either 
whites or yolks, diopped fine. 

CAVIARE IN SWEDISH TIMBALE CASES (HOTEL MONTHLY) 

Prepare tiny Swedish timbale cases, not more than half an inch 
deep, and fill these with caviare; above the caviare place a freshly 
opened oyster and two tiny stalks of cress. Pass lemon slices at 
the same time. 

CAVIARE WITH EQQS AND CUCUMBERS 

Butter rounds of Boston brown bread, press upon these rings of 
eold boued egg-white, fill the rings with caviare and place slices of 
cucumber, dressed with French dressing. 



ARTICHOKE BOTTOMS WITH CAVIARE 337 
CAVIARE CROUSTADES 

Add a few drops of lemon juice to the caviare, and mix and spread 
upon cold croustades of bread. Decorate the edges with fine 
chopped cucumber pickles, olives, and sweet, peppers mixed to- 
gether. 

PATE DE FOIE QRAS 

Pate de foie gras is used to spread sandwiches or other hors 
d'oeuvres, though thus used the aroma of the pkt6 is liable to evap- 
orate before the moment of eating. Cut into small cubes, the 
Y>kt6 is an addition to dishes served hot in casseroles or in purees 
of chicken, etc., that are steamed or poached in timbale or border 
moulds. The cubes would be crushed, if they were stirred into 
the mixture. As the preparation is put in with spoon or pastry-bag, 
arrange the cubes here and there. 

PATE DE FOIE QRAS CROUSTADES 

Pound to a paste two freshly boiled fowls' livers; the livers of 
chicken or turkey will answer, but those of a goose or a brace of 
duck are better, while the equivalent of pite de foie gras is best 
of all. Add two tablespoonfuls of creamed butter and a little 
paprika or cayenne, pass through a sieve and heat over water, 
then spread on the rounds of hot fried bread, piping a design above. 
Or stir the liver puree, mixed with the beaten yolks of two eggs, into 
a cup of scalded cream; stir until the mixture thickens, adding salt 
and pepper meanwhile, then pile on the rounds of fried bread. 

ARTICHOKE BOTTOMS WITH CAVIARE (Hors d'Oeuvre) 

Wipe dry as many artichoke bottoms (canned or fresh) as are 
needed. Roll them singly, in olive oil, then in half the measure 
of vinegar with a little salt and pepper. Pour the remainder of the 
dressing into the hollowed side of the bottoms and set aside in a 
cool place for an hour or more. When ready to serve dispose on a 
serving-dish or, one each, on individual plates. Cut out rings from 
delicately flavored aspic jelly and dispose in the centre of the arti- 
chokes. FiU the opening in the centrt of the jelly with caviare 
mixed with a little lemon juice. Decorate with 5gures cut from 
slices of pickled beet and with cubes of aspic. S. ;rve with pulled 
bread or brown bread sandwiches. 



338 PRACTICAL COOKING AND SERVING 

JELLIED MACEDOINE IN TOMATOES (Hors d'Oeuvre) 

Select rather small tomatoes, somewhat firm and with smooth 
exterior. Cut out a smaU piece around the stem end, peel with 
care and take out the seeds. Mix together two or three truffles, 
cut in tiny cubes, one fourth cup, each, of cooked peas, green and 
yellow string beans, cut fine, asparagus tips, bits of celery, carrot or 
whatever vegetable is at hand. To these add an equal measure of 
aspic jelly and mayonnaise dressing and stir over ice water until 
beginning to set, then use to fill the tomatoes. Make smooth on 
the top and set aside on the ice for half an hour or longer. When 
ready to serve cut each tomato (with a knife dipped in hot water) 
in quarters. Serve on heart leaves of lettuce. Pass small sand- 
wiches at the same time. 

TRUFFLED EGGS X LA MUSCOVITE 

Have as many rounds of toast, two inches and one half in 
diameter, as there are persons to serve. Spread the toast, while 
hot, with butter. When cold spread with caviare mixed with a 
few drops of lemon juice. The smallest sized can of caviare and 
a teaspoonful of lemon juice will be enough for eight rounds. 
For each service have ready a small, cold, hard-cooked egg, from 
which the shell has been removed. Cut a slice from the rounding 
end of each egg, that it may stand level. To three fourths cup 
of mayonnaise dressing beat in one fourth cup of consomme, in 
which a scant tablespoonful of gelatine has been softened and 
dissolved. When added to the dressing the gelatine mixture must 
be liquid but not hot. Set the eggs in place and with a silver knife 
spread the dressing over them; sprinkle with chopped truffles, or 
garnish with four or more figures cut from slices of truffles, or 
leave plain. Chill thoroughly before serving as an appetizer at 
luncheon or dinner. 

SANDWICHES 

Sandwiches for service as hors d'oeuvres, either as a preface to a 
meal or with the salad, are much smaller than those prepared for 
other service, but, for all home purposes, let the sandwiches be small. 
They are best when prepared just before serving, but for the lunch 
or picnic basket they may be kept wrapped in confectioners' or 
paraffine paper. For large companies, wrap the sandwiches in a 
damp cloth, wrung as dry as possible, then surround with a dry 



5ARDINE SANDWICHES 339 

doth; or cover the sandwiches, neatly piled, with a large earthen 
bowl. Certain sandwiches are better adapted to certain occasions 
than are others. The rules for salads hold good at all times and 
salad sandwiches at club luncheons, where the sandwiches, even if 
prepared at a grand hotel, must of necessity stand several hours 
before serving, should be gracefully declined by those who have 
regard for their stomachs. The "much-worked" lettuce-salad 
sandwich is the worst of the lot. Any variety of bread twenty- 
four hours old is admissible. Sometimes two varieties are com- 
bined in the same sandwich. Let the bread, freed from crust, be 
cut into slices about on eighth an inch thick, then cut into strips 
or triangles, or stamp out into fanciful shapes. Use the trimmings 
for bread sauce, puddings, or bread crumbing. Cream the butter 
to insure its spreading smoothly and evenly. Avoid spreading 
either the butter or fillmg over the edge. AVhen slices of meat are 
used, let them be cut as thin as a wafer, and use more than one in 
each sandwich. Fancy butters are recommended when sliced meat 
is used. For fillings of meat or fish purees, pounding the same in 
a mortar to a paste is of advantage; the addition of butter, cream 
or sauce of some variety gives a proper consistency for spreading. 
Salted meats and fish give sandwiches of pronounced flavor — acid 
in the form or lemon juice, chopped pickles or capers is an improve- 
ment to these and all fish sandwich mixtures. Pastes of fresh fish 
or meat will bear quite high seasoning. Nut pastes or pounded 
and sliced nuts and dieese give pleasing fillings. 

Sweet sandwiches are offered with cocoa or tea; bread or lady- 
fingers, yellow or white, may be used as the foundation of these; 
jams, jellies, marmalades, preserved ginger, etc., are the usual 
fillings. 

For five o'clock tea, sandwiches spread with flower-flavored 
butter are considered quite eesthetic. The butter is kept over 
night, or for some hours, between layers of fresh violets or rose 
petals in a closely dosed receptacle. 

SARDINE SANDWICHES 

Remove the skin and bones from six sardines; pound in a mortar 
with the yolks of six hard-boiled eggs and three tablespoonfuls of 
butter; season to taste with paprika and lemon juice, and pass 
through a fine sieve. Spread crescent, or other shaped pieces of 
bread with the paste, and press together in pairs. Serve on a 
napkin; ornament the dish with cress and slices of lemon. Or, 
substitute Hollandaise sauce for the butter and lemon juice 



340 PRACTICAL COOKING AND SERVING 

LOBSTER SANDWICHES 

Chop fine the meat of the lobster; add the soft parts, season 
with tabasco sauce, lemon juice and oil, and spread upon lightly 
buttered bread, cut for sandwiches. Press two corresponding 
pieces together. Serve aroimd a support fashioned from bread, 
fastened to the plate with white of egg or gelatine and holding the 
large claws of the lobster and heart lettuce leaves. 

EQQ AND CRESS SANDWICHES 

Cut stale bread into quarter-inch slices, and with tin cutters 
stamp out into diamonds, hearts or other fanciful shaped pieces. 
Mix together sifted yolk of egg, cress leaves and mayonnaise dress- 
ing. Spread this mixture upon the bread, press two similar-shaped 
pieces together and serve aroimd a bunch of cress. Garnish with 
hard-boiled eggs, cut in quarters. 

PICKLED TONGUE AND RYE BREAD SANDWICHES 

Pound the tongue (lambs' tongues are good) very fine in a mortar. 
Pound at the same time a pimento or two or a tablespoonful of 
capers and a little butter or Bechamel sauce; pass through a sieve 
and finish as any sandwiches. 

HAM AND EQQ SANDWICHES 

Pound together in a mortar half a cup of lean, cooked ham and 
two tablespoonfuls of fat ham, chopped fine, one third cup of 
butter, and two tablespoonfuls of cold Bechamel or white sauce. 
Pass through a sieve. Add the sifted yolks of four cooked eggs, 
half a teaspoonful of mustard, prepared with tarragon vinegar, 
a generous teaspoonful of fine chopped capers, and, if desired, a 
few drops of onion juice. Anchovies, though often used in these 
sandwiches, should be restricted to those prepared of fish. Spread 
upon buttered bread prepared for sandwiches, and press two pieces 
together. Serve without delay. 

CHICKEN SANDWICHES 

Poimd the chopped chicken to a paste with a little chopped 
parsley and cooked yolk of egg. Season with celery salt, a very few 
drops of onion juice, or "kitchen bouquet"; make more moist with 
butter, cold poulette, or HoUandaise sauce. 




OYSTER SALAD IN ICE BOWL. 
Garnish of pim-olas. (See page 328.) 




SHAD ROE-AND-CUCUMBER SALAD. (See page 32S.) 




SCALLOP SALAD. 
Gamish of celery leaves and curled celery. (See pages 32 and 328 ^ 




STUFFED TURNIP SALAD 




CUCUMBER SALAD — MINUTE PEARL ONIONS, FLUTED KNIFE 



NORWEGIAN SANDWICHES 341 

RAW BEEF SANDWICHES 

Scrape the tender portion of raw beef from the fibres, after cut- 
ting the beef into thin slices, scrape from one side and then from the 
other. Often, these sandwiches are heated over the coals in a 
broiler. Season with salt only, if for an invalid. Celery salt, 
tabasco sauce or pepper are palatable when allowable. 

CHEESE SANDWICHES 

I cup of grated cheese. A few grains of cayenne. 

I teaspoonful of butter. The yolks of two raw eggs. 

i teaspoonful of paprika. i cup of thin cream. 

I teaspoonful of mustard. Salt as needed. 

Melt the butter, add the cheese and seasoning, and stir until the 
cheese is melted and smooth, then stir in the yolks of the eggs, 
beaten and diluted with the cream. Use when cold. Milk, or 
tomato pur6e may take the place of the cream. 

RUSSIAN SANDWICHES 

Spread thin slices of Boston brown bread, stamped out in oval 
shape and lightly buttered, with Neufchatel, or any cream cheese. 
Spread, also, an equal number of slices, stamped out and buttered, 
with fine chopped olives and pimentoes mixed with mayonnaise 
dressing. Press together in pairs with a crisp heart leaf of lettuce 
between each pair. Serve while the lettuce is fresh. 

COTTAGE CHEESE AND CRESS SANDWICHES 

Chop the cress very fine, using only tender leaves; mix with the 
cheese, season with salt and paprika and use in the usual manner. 

CHEESE AND SALTED NUT SANDWICHES 

Mix grated Edam cheese or other cheese with butter enough 
to form a paste; season with pepper and add salted nuts sliced thin, 
not chopped. 

NORWEGIAN SANDWICHES 

^ cup of mayonnaise dressing. 2 teaspoonfuls of anebovy paste. 

3 hard-boiled eggs, chopped fine. Rye bread. 



,342 PRACTICAL COOKING AND SERVING 

Mix the chopped eggs with the paste and gradually beat tte 
dressing into the mixture. Use as a filling for rye bread, cut for 
sandwiches. Norwegian sandwiches are usually made with but 
one piece of bread. 

EQQ SALAD SANDWICHES 

For each sandwich have three or four heart leaves of lettuce, 
a hard cooked egg and two triangular slices of stale bread; also a 
generous allowance of salad dressing, mayonnaise preferred. 
Spread the bread with the dressing; on it press the egg, cut m slices, 
and the lettuce; add more dressing and press two pieces of the pre- 
pared bread together. This may form a course at a luncheon party, 
or be the principal dish of a home luncheon. Knives and forks are 
to be provided for eating these sandwiches. 

LETTUCE, CREAM CHEESE AND PIMENTO SANDWICHES 

Remove two pimentoes from a can, rinse in cold water and wipe 
dry on a doth. Chop the pimentoes. Work half a pound of cream 
cheese with a wooden spoon, then mix the pimentoes through it. 
With a doughnut cutter stamp out rings of bread from slices of 
stale (baked twenty-four hours) bread. Spread these with chili 
sauce salad dressing and then with the cheese mixture. Set a leaf 
of lettuce between each two rounds, to show through the hole in 
the centre of the bread. Serve at once. 



CHAPTER XIII 



Cheese and What Can Be £>one With It 



"Some cheeses are made o' skimmed milk and some o' new milk and it's no 
matter what you call 'em, you can tell which is which by the look and the 
smell." — George Eliot. 



AVERAGE COMPOSITION OF CHEESE 



Cent. 

Qaese, Axuedcan, 

pale> as purchased. . .31 .6 

Cheese, Cottage 72.0 

Cheese, Neufchatd, . 

average 50.0 

Cheese, Pineapple, 

average 23.0 

Cheese, Swiss, average ... 31 . 4 



Water Protein 
Per Per 

Cent. 

z8.8 

20. Q 

i8.7 



Fat 
Per 
Cent. 



Carbo- 
hydrates Ash 
Per ' Per 
Cent. Cent. 



29.9 
27.6 



35 



a; 

38 
34 



■3 
4-3 

i-S 

2.6 

1-3 



3-4 
1.8 

2.4 

5-6 
4.8 



Fuel val. 

per lb. 
Calories 



2 -OSS 

I S30 

2.24S 
2.010 



The manufacture of cheese is one of those provident processes 
instinctive in all mankind, by which food, in time of plenty, is 
transformed into a state suitable for keeping until a time of need. 
The preservation of the most valuable constituents of milk becomes 
possible on accoimt of the coagulating property of albumen, in 
this case in the form of casdn. More or less of fat is also entangled 
in the curd during its coagulation; the larger the quantity of fat 
the softer and n»re easQy brokai up is the cheese during digestion. 

In cheese, then, we have a compect and concentrated nitrogenous 
food, corresponding to eggs, meat, and £sh, but unlike meat and 
fish, in that it is without waste matter. The food value of cheese 
is diminished by the very fact of its compactness, which renders it 
difficult of solution. The tiny bit of cheese eaten at the close of a 
hearty dinner, as a so-called aid to digestion, calls for strong diges- 
tive power, and the increased effort of the digestive organs put forth 

343 



344 PRACTICAL CCX)KING AND SERVING 

to take care of this, will often digest the dinner, and then fail to 
digest the cheese itself; iJiis may have given rise to the old couplet: 

"Oh, cheese it is a surly elf, 
Digesting all things but itself." 

On account of its high food value cheese deserves more attention 
than it ordinarily receives in the cuisine. It is not adapted to 
children's needs, nor should it find a place, in a raw state, to any 
great extent in the dietary of sedentary people. Yet, finely 
divided, separated with other ingredients and subjected in cooking 
to gentle heat, it is readily digested and assimilated by many. Its 
proper place in the dietary is not in conjunction with meat, but with 
vegetables and grains. These supply the diluting and waste 
elements lacking in cheese, and are in turn enriched by the nitrog- 
enous element of the cheese, in which they are deficient. In the 
preparation of these dishes, emphasis must be laid on the thorough 
cooking of the vegetable or grain before the addition of the cheese; 
for noting is eaten that can exceed in indigestibility cheese cooked 
at a high temperature. 

The making of cheese was one of the first industries attempted 
by the early settlers of this country. Early in the seventeenth 
centiuy, Cheshire cheese, made from a recipe brought from Eng- 
land, was sent from Narragansett to England and the Barbadoes 
in large quantities. At the present time nearly all foreign makes 
of cheese are successfully imitated on this side of the Atlantic. 
Rocquefort is an exception. A place possessing the proper condi- 
tions for ripening this cheese has not yet been found in this 
country. 

Parmesan cheese is used quite generally in cookery; being very 
hard it is serviceable only when grated. It may be bought in bulk, 
sawed from the whole dbeese. In this condition it will keep in a 
cool place almost indefinitely. It can also be bought grated ready 
for use and put up in sealed bottles. Unless the entire contents of 
a bottle are to be used soon after opening the same, this is not an 
economical procedure, as the grated cheese moulds very quickly 
upon exposure to the air. 

SERVICE OF CHEESE 

Cheese is usually served as a part of the dessert, or it may be 
placed before the dessert with the salad, when the salad does not 



CHEESE CAKES 345 

accompany the game or roast. A bit of brown bread or a hard 
cracker with butter are passed at the same time. The French 
custom of omitting the sweets and ending the meal with salad and 
cheese has obtained to considerable extent in this country. In 
accord with this is the custom of passing, in place of a sweet, Cam- 
embert or Neufchatel cheese either whole with a cheese knife, or 
cut in small cubes and disposed upon a handled cheese plate, cov- 
ered with lace paper and accompanied by a cheese fork, and a tiny 
jar of bar-le-duc (a currant preserve made in such a manner that 
the seeded currants retain their shape). Lemon cheese-cakes are 
often substituted for the raw cheese. 

Small cheese, Uke Edam and pineapple, are prepared for serving 
by sawing ofE the top or cutting with a "butter tester" which 
leaves a scalloped edge. The cheese is then set in a silver cheese 
holder, or wrapped in a folded napkin, on a plate. A cheese scoop 
is needed for the service. For occasional service, pieces may be 
scooped out from a fresh cheese and piled on a plate covered with 
lace paper. A Stilton or Chester cheese, cut in halves, is served 
surrounded by a folded napkin. Young America and pineapple 
are identical in manufacture, but differ in shape. American dairy 
cheese is usually cut in small uniform pieces and served upon a lace- 
paper-covered plate. Celery is a favorite accompaniment of cheese 
when a salad is wanting. 

COTTAGE CHEESE 

Let fresh milk stand in a temperature of 100° Fahr. from one to 
three days, or until the curd separates from the whey. Turn the 
curd into a coarse cotton bag and let hang in a cool, dry place about 
twenty-four hours, or until the curd is free from whey. Add salt 
and sweet cream, to taste, and shape into small balls. In winter 
the process may be hastened by heating thick, sour or "clabbered" 
milk over hot water, but, if the water be too hot, a tough cheese 
results. The cheese is most rich and creamy, when the separation 
takes place at a low temperature, that is at about 100° Fahr. 

CHEESE CAKES 

1} cups of cottage, cream 01 The grated rind and juice of i lemon. 

Neufchatel cheese. 3 eggs. 

1 cup of sugar. i cup of currants and citron. 

2 tablespoonfuls of cream. i cup of sherry wine. 

; tablespoonful of melted butter. 



346 PRACTICAL COOKING AND SERVING 

Press the cheese through a colander or potato ricer and add the 
sugar, cream, melted butter, the juice and rind of the lemon, the 
eggs beaten light, the wine, and the fruit cut in small pieces. Line 
small tins with pastry, fill with the cheese mixture and bake about 
fifteen minutes, or until the pastry is baked; sprinkle with powdered 
sugar. Serve when partly cooled. The currants and citron may 
be omitted and the cakes served with bar-le-duc, or other choice 
preserve. They are also good with stewed primes — sliced and 
sugared oranges, etc. 

CHEESE CREAM 

The yolks of 3 eggs. | cup or more of grated cheese, Parme- 
i teaspoonful of salt. * san preferred, 

i teaspoonful of paprika. i level teaspoonful of gelatine. 

i teaspoonful of mustard. 4 tablespoonfuls of cold water. 

I cup of scalded milk. i cup of double cream. 

Mix the salt, pepper, and mustard with the beaten eggs and pour 
on slowly the hot milk; return to the fire and cook as a "boiled" 
custard; add the softened gelatine and strain over the cheese; stir 
over hot water, until the cheese is melted, then stir in ice water, 
until the mixture begins to stiffen; fold in the cream beaten solid 
and set aside in a mould to become firm. When ready to serve, 
cut in slices and stamp out figures with fanciful-shaped cutters. 
Serve on rounds of brown or graham bread; sprinkle the top with 
paprika. Use also in making hors d'oeuvre. 



NEUFCHATEL CHEESE MOULDED WITH NUTS 

Beat sifted Neufchatel, cream or cottage cheese (one cup) a 
tablespoonful of melted butter, one fourth cup of sweet cream, a 
dash of red pepper, and a cup of blanched and chopped English 
walnuts, pecan nuts, chopped olives or pimentoes until well mixed. 
Use a piece of confectioner's paper to handle and press the mixture 
into an oblong shape. Serve with vegetable saJad — celery, to- 
naato or lettuce preferred — and crackers. One fourth cup of 
tiny, green string beans, a pimento and five olives, the beans and 
the pimento cut in tiny cubes and the olives chopped, are par- 
ticularly good combined with cheese. Ser/e with lettuce dressed 
with French dressing. 



CHEESE IN SHELLS 347 

CHEESE SOUFFLE 

2 tablespooiiuls of butter. | cup of tomato pur€e. 

2 tablespoonfuls of flour. i cup, or 4 ounces of grated cheese. 

i teaspoonful, each, of salt, soda 3 eggs, 
and paprika. 

Make a sauce of the butter, flour, soda, seasoning, and purde; 
let boil five minutes, then add the grated cheese and the yolks of 
the eggs, and lastly fold in the whites of the eggs beaten dry. Bake 
in a buttered souffle dish until well puffed and delicately colored, 
about twenty-five minutes. Let the dish stand in hot water. 
Serve as soon as removed from the oven. This dish is more Eon- 
veniently served when it is baked in individual china dishes or 
in paper cases. The latter should be oiled and dried in the oven, 
before filling. In individual portions ten to fifteen minutes' bak- 
ing is needed. (SeeSouffles, page 501.) 

BREAD AND CHEESE CROUTONS 

Cut bread in roimds, diamonds, or other shapes, and half an 
inch thick; spread lightly with butter, then cover with a very fine 
shaving of American factory cheese, dust with paprika and set in 
the oven just long enough to melt die cheese. The cheese should 
not be brown. The bread may be sauted in butter, before being 
covered with cheese, if preferred. 

CHEESE TIMBALES 

2 tablespoonfuls of butter. i pound of grated cheese. 

2 tablespoonfuls of flour. Salt and paprika, 

^ cup of cream. 3 whole eggs and 4 yolks of eggs. 

J cup of milk. J cup of white stock. 

Make a sauce of the butter, flour and liquid; in this melt the 
cheese, and add the seasoning and the eggs beaten until well mixed . 
Bake in very small timbale moulds, standing on a folded paper in a 
pan of hot, not boiling, water. Let cook until the centres are firm. 
Serve hot with cream or tomato sauce. If desired more firm, use 
but one fourth a cup of stock. 

CHEESE IN SHELLS 

1 cup of bread cnunbs. i teaspoonful of salt and paprika. 
About a pint of milk. 3 tablespoonfuls of melted butter. 

2 eggs. t pound of grated cheese. 



348 PRACTICAL COOKING AND SERVING 

Mix the butter with the crumbs; add the salt and papriba,_the 
cheese and the eggs, beaten and mixed with the milk. Turn into 
buttered scallop shells, cocottes or cups, and bake until the egg is 
set. Serve at once in the dishes. 

QNOCCHI A LA ROMAINE 

(an ITALIAN CHEESE DISh) 

i cup of cornstarch. i pint of milk. 

i cup of flour. Yolks of two eggs. 

J teaspoonful of salt. i cup of butter. 

i teaspoonful of paprika. i cup of grated Parmesan cheese. 

Mix the cornstarch, flour, salt, and paprika with milk to pour 
and stir into the remainder of a pint of milk, scalded in the double 
boiler; stir constantly, until the mixture thickens, and, occasionally, 
for twenty minutes, then add the yolks of the eggs, mixed with the 
creamed butter and half of the cheese; stir until the eggs look 
cooked and the cheese is melted, then turn into a shallow dish, to 
form a paste half an inch thick. When cold cut in diamonds, ar- 
range in a baking dish that may be sent to the table, in two or more 
layers, with grated cheese between and on the top. Set the dish 
in the oven to reheat the paste and melt the cheese. Serve as a 
luncheon or supper dish or as a cheese course, either with or without 
celery, or with green vegetable salad. 

CHEESE RINGS 

Let one fourth a cup of butter and half a cup of rich, creamy milk 
heat to the boiling point, then stir in three fourths a cup of flour, 
sifted with half a teaspoonful of salt and a dash of cayenne or pap- 
rika, stir and cook until the mixture leaves the sides of the pan, then 
turn into a cold dish and beat into it two oimces (half a cup) of 
grated cheese and two eggs, one at a time. With a pastry bag and 
small plain tube shape the dough, on oiled paper, in the form of 
rings; brush these with beaten egg and fry in hot fat three or four 
minutes. Sprinkle with grated cheese and serve hot with a green 
salad. They are also good cold. Parmesan cheese is preferable, 
but any cheese may be used. The paper should be of such size as 
will lie on the top of the fat. When the rings float from the paper, 
remove it, turn the rings and fry as doughnuts. 



CHEESE CROQUETTES 349 

CHEESE BALLS 

if a.ps oE American factory, I teaspoocful of salt. 

Neufch&tel or cottage cheese. i teaspoonful of paprika. 

Cracker crumbs. Whites of 3 eggs. 

Mix together the cheese, salt, and paprika, then add the whites 
of the eggs, beaten stiff. Shape in small balls, roll in sifted cracker 
crumbs and fry in deep fat to a delicate brown color. The balls 
will cook in less than one minute. Drain on soft paper at the oven 
door. Serve on a lace paper, either with celery at the close of 
dinner, or with a green vegetable salad before the desert. 

CHEESE STRAWS 

Roll plain or puff-paste into a rectangular sheet one fourth an 
inch thick. Sprinkle one half^with grated cheese, Parmesan being 
preferable; sprinkle also very lightly with paprika or cayenne. 
Fold the other half of the paste over the cheese and press the edges 
together; fold again, then pat and roll out as before; then add cheese 
as at first, folding and rolling out in the same way; add cheese twice 
more, then, when it is rolled into a sheet, cut into strips or straws 
and rings. Bake about eight minutes. 

CHEESE STRAWS, NO. 2 

I cup of pastry flour. } teaspoonful of paprika. 

i teaspoonful of salt i cup of butter. 

} teaspoonful of baking-powder. ^ to i cup of cheese — cold water. 

Make as any plain paste, adding the grated cheese with the 
butter. 

CHEESE CROQUETTES 

3 tablespoonfuls of butter. i cup of American factory cheese 

i cup of flour. cut in small pieces. 

J cup of milk, or i cup of grated Parmesan 

Chicken stock. cheese. 

Yolks of 2 eggs. i teaspoonful of salt. 

Paprika. 

Make a white sauce of the butter, flour, seasoning, and liquid; 
add the beaten yolks, the grated cheese, and when well mixed stir 
in the pieces of cheese; turn into a dish to cool. Shape in balls, 



$y> PRACTICAL OOOBING AND SERVING 

cylinders or pears, egg-and-bread-crumb and fry in de^ fat to a 
delicate brown; drain on 3oft paper. Serve with a green vegetable 
salad or with crackers. 

WELSH RABBIT 

I tablespoonful of butter. i cup of cream or ale. 

} pound of cheese. Salt and paprika. 

Yolks of two eggs or i whole egg. i teaspoonful of soda. 

Put the butter into a hot dish, let melt and run over the bottom; 
add the cheese, grated or cut fine, stir constantly until the cheese 
is melted, then stir in the yolks of eggs, beaten and diluted with the 
cream or ale; add also the salt, paprika, and soda. Stir until 
smooth and creamy, then serve on the untoasted side of bread, 
toasted but upon one side and disposed in shallow, individual egg 
dishes. This dish is a favorite for chafing-dish cookery. 

CHEESE-AND-TOMATO RABBIT 

I tablespoonful of butter. ^ cup of tomato pui6e. 

I pound of cheese. } teaspoonful of salt. 

Yolks of two eggs. I teaspoonful of soda. 

i teaspoonful of paprika. 

Prepare as Welsh Rabbit. 

GOLDEN BUCK 

Make a plain Welsh rabbit as given in the recipe; add to this 
half a teaspoonful of Worcestershire sauce and a few drops of ta- 
basco sauce. Serve on toast with a poached ^g above the 
cheese mixture. 



CHAPTER XIV 
Batters and Doughs 

"The chUdren gather wood, and tne fathers kindle the fire, and the women 
knead their dough to make cakes to the queen of heaven." 
"Ephraim is a cake not turned." 

"Make ready quickly three measures of fine meal, knead it, and make cakes 
upon the hearth." 

Very early in the history of the world, it seems, grains and other 
substances, less nutritious, were ground between stones, mixed 
with water to a dough, and baked upon hot stones or before the 
fire. 

An uncooked piece of dough, being left accidentally a sufficient 
length of time, would, by the natural process of fermentation, give 
rise to a light dough that might be baked in this condition. In 
some way Uke this the desirability of providing an article of food 
that was light and porous — and easily penetrated by the digestive 
fluids — was probably discovered, and in time, by means of arti- 
ficial processes, other and less imcertain means of lightening dough 
were evolved. 

DEFINITIONS OF BATTERS AND DOUGHS 

When meal or flour is mixed with liquid to such consistency 
that it may be beaten, the mixture is called a batter. When the 
batter is of such consistency that it may be poured from the vessel 
or spoon in a continuous stream, it is called a pour batter. When 
the batter is of such thickness that it breaks and drops in pouring, 
it is a drop batter. When a mixture cannot be beaten (beating 
is done by cutting down with a spoon or other utensil frpm the top 
to the bottom of a mixture, and bringing the spoon up to the sur- 
face, passing over and down again, and thus turning the mixture 
over and over), but needs be made smooth by tossing and cutting, 
with a knife, kneading with the hands, or beating with a rollii^ 
pin, the mixture becomes- a dough. The general proportions of 

35i 



3S2 PRACTICAL COOKING AND SERVING 

flour and liquid to produce batter or dough are as follows: Equal 
measures of flour or meal and water make a pour batter; two 
measures of flour to one of liquid produce a drop batter, and three 
measures of flour to one of liquid produce a dough. 

These proportions are subject to many modifications, owing to 
combination with other ingredients, as sugar, butter, eggs, etc. 
Allowance must also be made for the kind of liquid and for the 
difference in the thickening properties of different kinds and grades 
of flour or meal. 

THE LIQHTENINO OF BATTERS AND DOUQHS 

Batters and doughs are made light by: 



\ C Leaven. 

The generation of gas 1 Spontaneous. 1 

(Carbon dioxide) / (Decomposition of Staich.) j 

or j \ Yeast 

Fermentation. f Artificial. Action of adds on carbonate or 

alkali: 

i'. Bicarbonate of soda and muriatic add. 

2'. Bicarbonate of soda and cream-of-tartar. 

3'. Bicarbonate of soda and add phosphate. 

4'. Bicarbonate of soda and acids in lemon juice 

(citric), sour milk (lactic), or molasses 

(acetic). 

The expansion of water in composition. 

f By heating. 

The expansion of air incorporated. -J By beaten eggs. 

I By folding. 



EXPANSION OF WATER IN COMPOSITION 

The expansion of water by heat into several hundred times its 
volume is taken advantage of in making johnny cake (joime or 
journey cake), which originated with the American Indians. The 
early settlers in this country learned how to make it from the 
squaws. The grains of corn were parched in hot ashes, sifted and 
beaten into powder, then stored in long leathern bags. When 
food was needed, a few spoonfuls of meal were mixed with snow in 
winter, with water in summer, and eaten uncooked, or cooked be- 
fore the open fire. Fifty years ago johnny cake was a common 



YEAST 353 

article of food in New England, but it was made from cornmeal 
ground at the miller's and baked in the oven. 

EXPANSION OF AIR INCORPORATED 

In making gems, as the spoon goes in and out and over the batter 
in beating, air is carried into the mixture, and the glutinous cell 
walls of Uie flour confine air; this expandkig when heated (air at 
70° expands about three times its volume at the temperature of a 
hot oven), in connection with the expansion of the water or milk 
used as liquid as it is changed into steam, makes the gems light. 
In making puff or plain paste, it is the expansion of cold water used 
in mixing, and of cold air incorporated by folding, when the paste 
is placed in the heated oven, that gives lightness to the dough. 
Lacking heat, the glutinous cell walls do not harden when thus ex- 
panded, and the desired lightness is lost. 

We also make use of the glutinous consistency of albumen in 
eggs in lightening batters and doughs. In this case, too, the 
greatest care must be exercised in adding the beaten eggs to the 
mixture, lest the expanded cells be broken, and in baking at such 
a temperature that the cells do not expand too quickly; and yet 
there must be sufficient heat to fix or harden the walls. 

LEAVEN 

Without doubt the earliest method of lightening batters and 
doughs was the one noted at the beginning of the chapter, the 
knowledge of which probably came by accident. Yeast plants 
always present in the air, settling upon grains that had been 
crushed between stones and mixed with water, and left in a warm 
place, would feed upon the sweet substances in composition and 
thus change them into other substances, one of which, carbon 
dioxide, would lift up the dough. A piece of this dough added to 
a piece of fresh dough would Uf t up or leaven the whole. 

YEAST 

As other plants than yeast are aJso floating in the air, many of 
them being inimical to the growth of the yeast germs, great un- 
certainty would result in the use of natural leaven. After many 
years of experiment, it was found possible to secure a pure culture 
of yeast plants, and to store these in such a manner that life lies 



354 PRACTICAL COOJSJNG AND SERVING 

dormajit until the proper conditions for growth are present 
(leaven or yeast is one of the principal leavening agents of to-day). 
The process of using leaven and yeast is long; to secure lightness 
by the expansion of air or water requires much care in mixing and 
baking, whence other means of securing lightness were sought for 
by chemists. 

ARTIFICIAL FERMENTATION 

Carbonates are compounds from which gas can be set free; the 
addition of an acid to a compound that sets gas free proves that 
such compound is a carbonate. That soda is a carbonate may be 
proved by the addition of several acids, any one of which will set 
free carbon dioxide. Carbon dioxide may also be evolved from 
soda simply by heating it, but when soda is used alone in batters 
and doughs, though lightness is secured, other essentials are lack- 
ing; the "cake" is yellow, and the unchanged carbonate neutralizes 
the acid in the digestive fluids, and thus impedes digestion. 

Sour milk, lemon juice, and molasses, through the lactic, citric, 
and acetic acids involved in their composition, when used with 
soda generate carbon dioxide; but the quantity and strength of the 
acids are variable. Nor is any one of these ingredients such as 
would be available or suitable at all times and under all circum- 
stances. 

The muriatic acid of the chemist seemed at first to be the ideal 
acid, combined with soda, to set free carbon dioxide, as the residue 
after fermentation was common salt; but the liberation of the gas 
was instantaneous when the acid and soda met. So this com- 
bination was dismissed as impractical. Add phosphates, the resi- 
due from which are mineral matters, were tried, and are still in 
use; but finally cream-of-tartar came to be considered the sine qua 
non, for which the culinary world was seeking to complete the 
necessary chemical reaction in the process of lightening food. 
There were several reasons for these conclusions, and these hold 
good to-day. 

Cream-of-tartar is a harmless substance, which does not unite 
chemically with soda until the application of heat, as well as 
moisture; and the residue (Rochelle salts) is harmless, taken in the 
quantity used in food, even when a large amount of such food is 
eaten. 

There is, however, one objection to the use of soda and cream-of- 
tartar. The proportion of each must be measured with the greatest 



CREAM-QF-TARTAR 355 

accuracy. Rather more than twice as much of cream-of-tartar as 
soda, by measure, is called for. If the quantity of soda be too great 
the caustic unneutralized carbonate will neutralize the acid of the 
gastric juice and hinder digestion. In this case the yeUow color 
of the food tells the story, and the food may be avoided; but, on 
account of this necessary accuracy in measurement, baking-powder 
has come into general use. 

BAKING-POWDER 

The best approved baking-powder is a composition of bicar- 
bonate of soda and creahi-of-tartar, mixed in such proportion that 
one exactly neutralizes the other. A small quantity of corn- 
starch, or flour is added to separate the ingredients. These three 
ingredients are mixed together by sifting many times (ten or more) 
so that each little particle of carbonate and acid be surrounded by 
a thin coating, or film, of starch. There are many grades of soda, 
cream-of-tartar and flour, and, of course, the best give the best 
results. 

BICARBONATE OF SODA 

Soda is obtained from "cryolite," a native deposit found in the 
earth, from certain marine plants, and from common salt. At the 
present time the best soda is obtained from "cryolite" brought 
from Greenland, about 15,000 tons being annually worked up. 
Soda is cheap, and this ingredient is rarely, probably never, adul- 
terated. Bicarbonate of soda, the form used for leavening pur- 
poses, is produced by charging common soda with carbonic acid 
gas. 

CREAM=OF.TARTAR 

The acid used to set free the carbon dioxide in bicarbonate of 
soda is a deposit from grape juice found in wine casks. The name 
"argol"is given to this grape acid, which, when purified, becomes 
cream-of-tartar. This acid exists naturally in the grape, but, being 
insoluble in alcohol, it is gradually deposited on the sides of the casks 
as the sugar of the juice is converted into alcohol by fermentation. 
The best argol is obtained from the wine-producing countries of 
southern Europe, that from California, for some unknown condi- 
tion of soil, climate or culture, being of an inferior grade. The 
color of argol depends upon the color of the grapes from which 
the juice is expressed. It varies from grayish white to reddish. 



356 PRACTICAL COOKING AND SERVING 

purple. Argol is first ground, and then purified. This latter 
process is an expensive one. Nothing is desirable but the pure 
grape acid; Ume, coloring, and all other impurities found in the 
argol need be removed; and the purity, hence expense, depends 
entirely upon the care of the refiners. Below is foimd the proper 

FORMULA FOR A BAKING-POWDER 

I pound, 2 ounces of cream-of-tartar. 

i pound of bicarbonate of soda. 

i to I pound of cornstarch or fine flour. 

At first sight one would say, "Why not buy the ingredients of a 
reliable chemist and mix one's own baking-powder?" This may 
be done if the product is to be used very soon; still, the ingredients 
may not have been recently prepared and so be lacking in strength; 
then, too, the chemist has appliances for drying the ingredients 
before they are mixed, which does much to preserve their strength. 
Starch and cream-of-tartar can be most effectually dried out, but 
soda can be heated only slightly without the loss of gas. 

In use, baking-powder should always be sifted with the dry 
ingredients, to prevent, as far as possible, the escape of the gas, 
imtil the mixture is placed in the oven. In using soda and cream- 
of-tartar, pulverize and sift the soda before measuring, and then 
sift both ingredients at least twice with the flour, being careful to 
separate them with flour before sifting. 

PROPORTIONS OF ARTIFICIAL LEAVENING AGENTS 

I teaspoonful of soda to i pint of thick sour milk. 

I teaspoonful of soda to i cup of molasses, for batters. 

i teaspoonful of soda to one cup of molasses, for doughs. 

} teaspoonful of soda to 2 tablespoonfuls of lemon juice in thick batters for 

each two cups of flour. 
I teaspoonful of soda to three and a half teaspoonfuls of cream-of-tartar to one 

quart of flour, 
a teaspoonfuls of baking-powder to a cup of flour, in mixtures without eggs. 

SUGGESTIONS 

As the add in lemon juice sets free carbon dioxide, in large meas- 
ure, upon contact with the soda, mixtures in which these agents 
are employed will not be very light, and tlieir use is restricted to 




CHEESE BALLS. (See page 349.J 




CHEESE STRAWS AND RINGS 
(See pages 348, and 349.) 




CHEESE CAKES WITH PRESERVED CHERRIES. 
fSee page 34K.) 




CHEESE CROQUETTES WITH PAPER AIGRETTES. 
(See page 349.) 




CREAMED CELERY AND CHEESE AU GRATIN. 
(See page 282.) 




GNOCCHI A LA ROMAINE. (See page 348.) 



SUGGESTIONS 357 

cakes in which a close texture is desirable. Add the lemon juice 
to the eggs and sugar and sift the soda into the flour. 

Sour milk, buttermilk or cream with soda are most successfully 
used in mixtures in which commeal predominates. Such prep- 
arations are incomparably moister, more tender and delicate, 
when the leavening gas is thus generated, than when cream-of- 
tartar, in any form, is used as the generating acid. In wheat-flour 
mixtures, when pure cream-of-tartar and soda are used, either in 
bulk or in the form of baking-powder, if the correct proportions be 
taken and the proper temperatiu-e of the oven be secured, the 
cooked products will be neither too dry nor too porous. If such be 
the case, you have reason to suspect the presence of some other 
ingredient, or, in other words, an adulteration of the lightening 
agent. 

Iron utensils are preferable for baking pop-overs, muffins and 
griddle cakes. These should be hot by the time the mixture is 
ready. To oil a griddle, press a steel fork into a slice of salt pork 
or piece of beef fat and with it rub over the surface of the griddle. 
The griddle is of the right temperature when the underside of the 
cake browns before the top shows signs of cooking other than the 
formation of gas bubbles. 



CHAPTER XV 

Bread and Bread Making 

"Bread is the staff of life, but- bread and butter is a gold-headed cane." 

In every part of the world, from the beginning of recorded time, 
bread has been a synonym of food. The cry of the starving in 
India, the mob in France, and the poor in Italy has ever been for 
bread. The reason for this is obvious, when we consider that very 
many even of the earlier and cruder forms of bread were made from 
cereals or com plants, as millet, oats, barley, and rye, and that these 
. in themselves contain all the elements necessary for the growth and 
repair of the body, and in very nearly the proportion demanded in 
an ideal dietary. At the present day, throughout the civilized 
world, wheat is known to be the grain that contains gluten in pro- 
portion and quality necessary to the making of the most perfect 
bread. 

A loaf of bread at least four thousand years old, a part of which 
was in such a state of preservation that it was possible to identify 
barley as the grain from which it was made, was lately found in 
Egypt. From records and monuments in that ancient land we 
learn that the grain for bread was broken by pounding, and that 
it was probably baked between or upon hot stones. The children 
of Israel ate leavened bread in Egypt, though the Chinese had used 
leavened bread long years before the time of Moses and the exodus 
from Egypt. The ancient Greeks cultivated the yeast plant, and 
in excavations at Pompeii an oven was found containing eighty- 
one loaves of bread not unlike our own. The older and higher 
the civilization, the more advanced the art of bread making. Four 
hundred years ago the American Indian was just in the infancy of 
the art, and the wild tribes of South Africa to-day have progressed 
no further. 

The bread of the ancients was made flat and thin, as thus the 
heat could better penetrate the heavy, compact dough; and the 
expression "to break bread" was from tJie actual mode of division. 
Bordeau notes that our rule of politeness, which exacts that bread 

«8 



WHAT IS GOOD BREAD 359 

be broken at table, instead of cutting it, is only the tradition of a 
very andent custom. 

Though the art of bread making is of such ancient origin and 
the opportunity for a general diffusion of knowledge has been so 
great, good bread is not an article in common use. In cities 
abroad bread is not baked at home; and in this coimtry, as more 
and more work is carried on outside the home kitchen, the baking 
of bread is sure to foUow. At the present time one cannot secure 
from bakeries bread and rolls made from quite as good materials, 
or baked and cooled quite as carefully, as it is possible to provide 
at home. In general, the bread made abroad, on account of the 
size and shape of the loaf, contains less starch in a crude form than 
that which we may call tie American loaf. While the foreign loaf 
is not acceptable to the average American, it probably approaches 
more nearly the dietetic conditions required by our modem mode 
of life. Jxist how far the conversion of starch into dextrose, or 
allied substances, has proceeded in the crusty loaf has not been 
exactly determined; and, in the bread of the future, chemical pro- 
cesses may be found by which the excess of starch that ordinary 
bread contains may be transformed or presented in a form less tax- 
ing to the digestive organs. 

The process of makmg bread with yeast is one of the most fas- 
cinating of studies for the chemist or the cook. And the more the 
cook knows of the chemistry of bread making, and the greater the 
skill with which she applies her knowledge to the practical working 
out of the process, the greater are her chances of securing a perfect 
loaf. Four of the simplest ingredients in the culinary laboratory 
enter into the composition of a loaf of bread; yet the changes 
through which these materials pass before a finished loaf is evolved 
are the most complicated in all cookery. 

WHAT IS GOOD BREAD 

Opinions differ as to just what properties good bread should 
possess. Some vdsh a moist crumb and tender crust, others a dry 
crumb and a flinty crust. But there are certain points upon which 
all agree; namely, bread should be agreeable in smell and taste, 
while it should be light and porous to be easily penetrated by the 
digestive fluids. The bubbles of the crumb should be uniform in 
size and small. The surface should rebound when compressed, and 
the loaf should keep in good condition several days. 



360 PRACTICAL COOKING AND SERVING 

INGREDIENTS USED IN BREAD 

The four ingredients that enter into a loaf of bread are flour, 
yeast, salt, and liquid. Milk or water, or a part of each, may 
comprise the latter. Bread made with milk is more nutritious, 
but it dries more quickly than does bread in which water is used. 
The texture of milk bread, even with slight kneading, is velvety and 
pleasing. Half milk and half water is quite generaUy used. Water 
bread, without shortening, carefully manipulated, gives a loaf of 
nutty flavor, but with tough crust. The French excel in the pro- 
duction of this bread. Water, with two tablespoonfuls of shorten- 
ing to the pint, is more generally preferred by American house- 
keepers. 

STRUCTURE OF A WHEAT GRAIN 

1. Wheat grains consist of an outer covering, largely silica, re- 
moved before milling. 

2. Three layers of bran coats, in the forms of cells, containing 
mineral matter, gluten, oil, etc. 

3. A layer of cells, chiefly gluten and other proteid matter. 

4. Centre and largest part of the grain made up of cells, of 
which starch is the chief content. 

STARCH AND GLUTEN 

Mix wheat flour and water to form a dough. Let stand a short 
time, then wash it on a sieve over a pan of water. Let the water 
settle; and, when it is poured off, a white mass, which, when dried, 
is flne as dust, is found in the pan. This is stardi. And the 
doughy, gray, elastic mass left on the sieve, which may be taken 
up in the hands and piilled like candy, is gluten. These are the 
chief constituents of floiur, and the relative proportion of these two 
substances determines the character of the floiu". Gluten gives a 
strong, gray flour of slightly bitter taste, which will take up a large 
quantity of water. Such flour "spends well." Starch gives a 
more delicate flour of sweet taste, which takes up, relatively, a 
small quantity of water. The tenacious, elastic gluten is needed 
m yeast mixtures, to hold the carbon dioxide that lifts up the dough 
and makes it light. But it is not as desirable in cake and pastry, 
where tenderness and delicacy are sought for. The relative pro- 
portion of starch and gluten in grains depends largely upon the soil 
and the climate in which the grain is grown. Hard spring wheat, 



MILLING METHODS 361 

planted in the spring and harvested in August or early September 
in Minnesota and in North and South Dakota, is particularly 
strong in gluten, and contains a minimum quantity of starch. 
Flour made from such wheat is designated as bread flour. Winter 
wheat is a softer variety raised in the Middle and Southern States. 
It is planted in the fall, and harvested in the following June or July. 
Flour made from this wheat is designated as pastry flour, as it is 
well adapted to the purpose indicated by the name. 

WHEN TO USE BREAD AND WHEN PASTRY FLOUR 

As a general rule, bread flour is indicated in recipes where yeast 
is used, and pastry flour in all other cases. Less flour to a given 
quantity of liquid is needed when bread flour is used. For a 
change, it is occasionally advisable to use pastry flour in bread 
making. It gives a sweeter tasting loaf. 

HOW TO DISTINGUISH BREAD AND PASTRY FLOUR 

Bread flour is granular to the touch. It passes readily through 
the sieve: a jar will send it through. When mixed into a dough, 
it takes up a comparatively large quantity of moisture. On the 
other hand, pastry flour is soft and oily to the touch. Pressed in 
the hand it keeps its shape, showing the impress of the lines of the 
hand. It does not pass readfly through the sieve, and it ab- 
sorbs a comparatively small amount of moisture. 

MILLING METHODS 

The old-fashioned way of making flom: was to pulverize the wheat 
in one operation through mill stones; and then a crude separation 
of the flour and bran and other dark portions of the wheat berry 
was made by revolving reels covered with what is known as silk 
bolting cloth. Natur^y, the separation was imperfect, and much 
of the brown portion remained in the flour. 

Modem milling is what is known as a gradual reduction system, 
whereby the wheat is gradually and carefully reduced. The wheat 
is nm through six systems of rolls, for the purpose of loosening the 
middlings. These middlings are then purified by means of sieves 
and air-suction machines, which remove all the brown portion of 
the berry. The middUngs are, after purification, reduced to flour. 



36a PRACTICAL COOKING AND SERVING 

The wheat grain is thoroughly cleaned and scoured before the 
flour-making process begins. 

VEAST IN BREAD MAKING 

Yeast is a collection of living, one-celled organisms that partake 
of the nature of plant rather tba,n animal life. These organisms 
may be produced by cultivation. In a proper environment — 
with necessary warmth, moisture, and complex food to feed upon 
— these microscopic fimgi bulge a little upon one side. This 
bulge takes on an oval shape, and soon separates from the parent 
cell as a distinct organism. Other cells quickly follow from the 
parent cell and from the new cells or buds; and thus the yeast- 
plant grows. The little yeast plants or cells are vigorous and 
tenacious of life, living under most adverse circumstances; but these 
are killed on exposiire to a temperature of about 212° Fahr. They 
endure cold much better, as life is simply suspended in a tempera- 
ture of about 30° Fahr. The most favorable temperature for their 
growth is between 65° and 75° Fahr. A cake of compressed yeast, 
one of the best forms in which a housekeeper can secure a supply 
of yeast, is a collection of yeast plants massed together without 
the presence of suitable conditions for growth. By the exclusion 
of air and heat, the plants may be kept for some days alive and in 
vigorous condition for future growth. 

In making bread, we soften the cake in liquid to separate the 
plants, and then stir them into the flour. Salt may be added as 
a matter of taste. It retards, perhaps, the growth of the plant. 
The little plants, finding in the starch and ^uten of the flour a 
complex food which they enjoy, begin to feed and grow or bud; and 
chemical changes take place. Starch is chang^ to sugar, and 
sugar to alcohol and carbon (carbonic-acid gas). The gas, in its 
efforts to escape, expands the tenacious elastic ceU walls of gluten 
in which it is entangled, and lifts up the dough. If this dough be 
subjected to heat (212° Fahr. at the cootre), t£e alcohol and carbon 
dioxide wiU be driven off, the cell walls fixed, and sweet bread 
produced. But, if the dough be left to itself, this change, which is 
called alcoholic fermentation, will be followed by another change. 
The alcohol breaks up into acetic acid and water; and, if baked, the 
resultant bread will be soiur. 

A good yeast cake is of a light even color. There is an absence 
of dark streaks through it. 



PROPORTIONS OF INGREDIENTS 363 

GENERAL DIRECTIONS FOR MIXING AND BAKING 

BREAD 

TIME NEEDED FOR BREAD MAKING 

Now, the greater the number of yeast plants, the more quickly, 
other conditions being favorable, mil the bread be lifted up; and, 
in making bread, we take this fact into consideration. 

If bread is to be made quickly, two, even three, compressed yeast 
cakes may be used to a pint of liquid. Thus made, the whole 
process need not take over three hours. If dough is to be mixed 
at night and baked with the first fiire in the morning, the quantity 
of yeast may be reduced to one third cake to a pint of liquid. 
The longer time of fermentation, as a rule, gives the best flavored 
bread; for the by-products of fermentation, which give a peculiar 
and characteristic sweetness to the loaf, are generated during the 
longer process. In using a large quantity of yeast, we may improve 
the flavor of the bread, at the expense of time, by "cutting down" 
the dough once or twice after it has risen to double its bulk. 

As the dough quickly rises again, after a part of the gas has 
been let out, iJiis does not lengthen the process to any considerable 
extent. Still, except during extreme heat, when souring may be 
anticipated, the method fulfils the requirements of occasional rather 
than general practice. 

PROPORTIONS OF THE INGREDIENTS 

The quantity of liquid rather than the quantity of flour deter- 
mines the size of the loaf. Two cups of liquid will make two loaves 
of bread of average size; but, whether two, two and one half, or 
three portions of flour be used to one of liquid, the difference will 
be one of texture rather than of size. Two cups of liquid will be 
found a most convenient imit of measurement. With this use from 
one third cake of compressed yeast to one whole cake or even two 
or three cakes, accordong to the length of time to be spent in the 
operation, softened in half a cup of lukewarm liquid. If liquid 
yeast be used, take half a cup to two cups of liquid, in case the 
dough is to stand over night. A level teaspoonful of salt, two table- 
spoonfuls of sugar, if desired, and from two to three pints of 
flour complete ^e necessary ingredients. 



364 PRACTICAL COOKING AND SERVING 

THE UTENSILS 

A heavy earthenware bowl holds the heat. It is easily cleaned, 
and with care will last a lifetime. It should be used for no other 
purpose. The yellow ware is preferable. For mixing the dough, 
no utensil is more easily handled than a broad-bladed knife. A knife 
with wooden handle and blade an inch and a half wide can be pur- 
chased for fifty cents. A close-fitting tin cover with three or four 
perforations near the top keeps the dough in the bowl from forming 
a crust, and furnishes means of escape for gases. The favorite 
pan in this coimtry for baking bread is about eight inches long, 
four inches wide, and three inches deep: two of these are required 
for baking bread made with two cups of liquid. Russia iron pans 
of French make, in which two or more long, round loaves are baked 
side by sode, are occasionally used. Cylindrical pans with covers 
are seen on the market; but bread is more wholesome when baked 
in an open pan. 

KNEADINQ THE DOUGH 

When all the flour that is to be used has been added, and the 
ingredients have been thoroughly mixed, scrape the dough from the 
bowl on to a moulding board lightly dredged with flour. Toss 
with the knife. Then with finger tips lightly floured bring forward 
the back of the dough, without pressing the fingers into it. Let 
the ball of the hand, just above the wrist, meet the dough; press 
down upon it, and move it backward; then the tips again bring 
forward the back of the dough, the ball of the hand meets it, and 
repeats the first process; and so a new portion of dough is brought 
in contact with the hand at each downward pressure. Occasionjdly 
turn the dough halfway round, to keep it in a roundish mass; con- 
tinue this kneading process until the mass of sticky paste is a 
smooth, elastic, fine, and even-grained ball of dough. Add but little 
flour during this process,and keep the crust that is formed by knead- 
ing intact by keeping the dough in motion, and never allowing the 
finger tips to penetrate it. llie mass acquires "body" under the 
manipulation. When elastic and full of minute air bubbles it has 
been kneaded enough, 

OBJECT OF KNEADINQ 

Dough is kneaded the first time to distribute evenly the little 
yeast plants and other ingredients, to give body to the dough, and 




SWEDISH ROLLS. (Set pa&e .572.) 





■ 


1 




fE^I^^I 


I 






- 


^ 


^K^ ^^^0^^^^H 






p 




' * 

b -^ 


'-■^:' ^^B 


■ 




'4 


^li 




^iF^^fe'-^' - ^^ 






i 


B 


Ey^ ,'^1 


^pK^i'^J 




fb 


p 




^g^P , *~'^', :^gttlk 


HH 






n 




■■--^^^gl^^^K^ 


I 


M 


' "'''^'^'''^^i^^Hj^HI^^^^^^^H 



OATMEAL BISCUIT. (See page 373J 




BREAD STICK PAN, BREAD STICKS AND SALAD ROLLS. 

'See paKe-! 37i and 372.) 




BISMARK RINGS 



$ 








I^B^Kf^T^^^ 


m-A 


i?:,v»^«.5|£|^%. 


^ydHfe^^. 





HOT CROSS BUNS 




SWEDISH TEA RING, READY TO SERVE 



RAISING BREAD 365 

bring out the elasticity of the gluten, and to make the mixture 
smooth. The second kneading is to break up the large cavities 
caused by gas bubbles, and to make the texture unform and fine. 
The length of time required for the first kneading depends some- 
what upon the quantity of fiour and shortening that is to be in- 
corporated into the dough. The stiffer the dough and the richer 
the mixture the longer tne time required to make it smooth and 
elastic. From fifteen to thirty minutes are required. The second 
kneading should be only of such length as is needed to put the dough 
into the proper shape for baking. 

TEMPERATURE AND TIME FOR RAISING BREAD 

As bacilli inimical to the proper growth of the yeast plants may 
be introduced into the dough in the milk or water, it is advisable 
to scald the milk or boil the water, and then cool to a temperature 
not over 100° Fahr., before adding the yeast. While this may 
not kill bacilli present in the liquid, it retards their growth for the 
time being, and leaves the yeast plant in possession of the field. 
The taste and texture of bread are largely dependent upon the time 
^ven for rising. If the flavor and other characteristics associated 
with home-made bread be desired, they can be best secured by long, 
slow rising at a temperature a little below that of the living room, 
or between 55° and 60° Fahr. In winter, bread made with one third 
yeast cake to a pint of liquid, and set at 8 p. m., may be left stand- 
mg in a room, that in the course of an hour or two drops to the 
temperature given above, until seven in the morning. 

While, all things considered, a temperature of 68° Fahr. is prob- 
ably the most favorable for bread making, the operation may be 
hastened by setting the bowl of dough in a pan of water that is 
kept just below 90° Fahr. When the dough has risen to about double 
its original size, it should be "cut down" — cut and worked with a 
knife — to break up the bubbles of gas and retard the fermentation. 
The "cutting down" process may be repeated several times, to the 
improvement of the bread, if the rising be not continued too long 
at any one time. If the fermentation be allowed to proceed too 
long, the glutinous cell walls holding the gas become weakened, the 
dough loses its puffy, rounded appearance and flattens or "caves 
in," showing that the alcoholic fermentation has passed into the 
acetic. The bread will be sour. Often dough that does not reach 
this condition is subjected to fermentation too long; and too much 
of the goodness of the flour — probably of the gluten — is con- 



366 PRACTICAL COOKING AND SERVING 

suined by the yeast plants, and a dry, tasteless, chippy bread re- 
sults. This is particularly the case with bread made of entire 
wheat flour. As a general rule, dough made with one cake of com- 
pressed yeast to a pint of liquid wiU double in bulk in three hours. 
About one hour is required for the second rising, after the dough is 
in the pans, and a fifth hovu* for baking. 

SHAPING THE DOUQH 

Knead the dough slightly, and divide it into the requisite number 
of pieces. When a round is desired, shape this with the hands and 
fingers, by folding over and patting, imtil no wrinkles are to be 
seen. If the dough was properly moulded in the first place, it will 
not stick to the fingers now. If it should stick, a little butter, not 
flour, is the remedy. If the dough is to be given a long, oval 
shape, the moulding board is needed. When doubled in bulk, the 
loaves are ready to bake. 

THE BAKING 

Yeast bread is baked to kill the ferment — lest fermentation go 
on in the stomach — to drive off alcohol, stiffen the glutinous wallsj 
cook the starch, and form a pleasant tasting crust. 

The yeast plant is killed at a temperature of 212° Fahr. To 
raise the temperatiure at the centre of the ordinary loaf to this 
point requires nearly an hour's cooking in an oven heated, when 
the bread is put in, to about 400° Fahr. — that is, in a fast oven. 
Where the temperature of the oven is gauged by a "heat indicator," 
the index is just past the central mark, or twelve o'clock. The 
loaves in sudi an oven will rise a little, crust over, and brown 
slightly, in spots, during the first fifteen minutes. Biscuits and 
rolls require a hot oven, and will bake in from twenty minutes to 
half an hour. A thick loaf of bread baked in the early morning is 
considered in good condition for eating by night; but it will be in 
better condition the next morning. Thin biscuits, if thoroughly 
baked, are not as objectionable hot as slices from a thick loaf. 
Still, when thoroughly masticated, the digestibility of fresh (not 
hot) and stale bread is about the same. 

CARE OF BREAD AFTER BAKING 

Remove the bread at once from the tins and let cool in fresh air, 
uncovered. Store, when fully cold, in a tightly covered stone >Hr. 



MILK BREAD 367 

; should be washed, scalded, dried and aired at least once a 
k. Never put cut slices into the jar, but keep this receptacle 
from crumbs. Never put a cloth into the jar with the bread. 

THE SPONGE 

sponge, in bread making, is a mixture of flour with liquid and 
5t. It is usually made thin, and in consequence the ferment 
I very quickly. A sponge is advisable for biscuits and all yeast 
)arations where much shortening is to be used, as it retards the 
ig. After fermentation has been established in the sponge, 
shortening may be added with the rest of the floiur; and the 
lie wiU quickly become light. 

POTATO YEAST 

quarts of boiling water. | cup of salt. 

. or 5 large potatoes. f cup of granulated sugar. 

X pint of yeast. 

'are, grate, and cook the potatoes in the boiling water. Let 
id in cold water, then stir as they are grated into the boiling 
:er, to keep the yeast light-colored; let cook about ten minutes 
;r all the potato is grated, then stir in the salt and sugar and 
;n cooled to about 68° Fahr. stir in the yeast. Let stand in a 
iperature of 68° Fahr. twenty-four hours, stirring as it becomes 
it and frothy. Store in fruit jars, tightly closed. Fill the jars 
E full only. Use half a cup of yeast to a pint of liquid and mix 
light or early morning. 

RECIPES FOR BREAD WITH YEAST 

MILK BREAD 

t cups of scalded milk. i teaspoonful of salt. 

! tablespoonfuls of shortening. i to 3 whole yeast cakes. 

! tablespoonfuls of sugar. } cup of lukewarm water. 

6 or more cups of flour. 

'our the milk over the shortening, sugar, and salt in the bowl; 

an cooled to a lukewarm temperature add the yeast, softened 

I mixed with the lukewarm water, and stir in the flour; follow 

directions given under "kneading." Wash dry and butter 



368 PRACTICAL COOKING AND SERVING 

the bowls, put in the dough and set aside covered. Finish accord- 
ing to directions previously given. 

FRENCH BREAD. (ADAPTED FROM RECIPE B^' 
PROFESSOR BLOT) 

1 cake of compressed yeast. 2 cups of boiled water, cooled. 
J cup of boiled water, cooled. i teaspoonful of salt. 

f cup of flour. S to 6 cups of flour. 

Soften the yeast in the one fourth cup of water, and stir in the 
three fourths cup of flour, knead the little ball of dough until 
smooth and elastic. Make two cuts across the top of the dough, 
at right angles to each other, quarter of an inch deep. Set the ball 
in a bowl containing the rest of the water. When the ball floats 
— ^a light puffy mass — add the other ingredients and mix to a dough. 
Elnead imtil smooth and elastic, fifteen or twenty minutes. Cover 
the dough, and set it aside in a temperature of about 70° Fahr., 
until it has doubled in bulk. The dough may be baked in any kind 
of a pan; but, to secure the crusty French loaf, a Russia iron pan, 
giving long, narrow loaves, is desirable. For one of these pans di- 
vide the dough into two equal pieces. Roll, and stretch them imder 
the hands, on the board, until they are as long as the pan. Have a 
round stidj (like a curtain roller) Ughtly floured. Press this down 
through the centre lengthwise of the loaf, and roll it back and forth, 
to maJce a furrow. French bread is concave rather than convex 
on the top, but this shaping may be omitted. Cover and let stand 
to become light. Cut mree or four slantwise cuts in the top of the 
bread, five or six inches apart. Bake about forty minutes. When 
nearly baked, brush over the surface with the beaten white of an 
egg, and return to the oven. Repeat the glazing, if desired. 

ENTIRE WHEAT OR QRAHAM BREAD 

2 cups of scalded milk. i to 3 whole yeast cakes. 

3 tableepoonfuls of shortening. i cup of lukewarm water. 
i cup of sugar. 2 cups of white flour. 

About 4 cups of entire wheat flour. 

Proceed as for the ordinary white loaf, mixing stiff and kneading 
quite as long. Molasses instead of sugar may be used for sweeten- 
ing, or omit half the sugar. 



FIVE-HOUR BREAD 369 

RYE BREAD 

2 cups of scalded milk. ^ to 3 whole yeast cakes. 

1 teaspoonful of salt. J cup of lukewarm water. 

2 tablespoonfuls of sugar. About 4 cups of rye flour. 

2 tablespoonfuls of shortening. Enough wheat flour for kneading. 

Make as wheat bread, using entire wheat flour for kneading. 

KUMMEL BROD (CARAWAY-SEED BREAD) 

1 cup of scalded milk. i yeast cake. 

i cup of butter. J cup of lukewarm water. 

} cup of sugar. 2 tablespoonfuls of caraway seeds, 

i tablespoonful of salt. About 4 cups of rye flour. 

Wheat flour for kneading. 

Knead fully half an hour. When risen to double in bulk, shape 
into a long roll and bake in a French pan. Serve, either warm or 
cold, in the form of sandwiches, for five o'clock teas. 

SWEDISH BREAD 

2 cups of boiling water. i cake of compressed yeast. 

1 cup of commeal. 3 tablespoonfuls of lukewarm water. 

2 tablespoonfuls of shortening. f cup of molasses. 

I teaspoonful of salt. Wheat flour to knead. 

Pour the boiling water over the commeal, shortening and salt 
and mix thoroughly. When the mixture is cooled to a lukewarm 
temperature, add the yeast mixed into the lukewarm water, the 
molasses and flour. Knead imtil elastic, cover closely and let stand 
in a temperature of about 70° Fahr. imtil doubled in bulk. Shape 
into two loaves, and when again light bake one hour. 

FIVE-HOUR BREAD 

1 pint of scalded milk or i teaspoonful of salt. 

boiled water. 1 cake of compressed yeast. 

i tablespoonfuls of butter, cottolene, } cup of lukewarm liquid, 
lard, or other shortening. Floiu: to knead. 

2 tablespoonfuls of sugar. (6 to 8 cups.) 

Add the shortening, sugar, and salt to the hot milk. When 
lukewarm add the yeast, soitened in the half cup of liquid, and flour 



370 PRACTICAL COOKING AND SERVING 

to knead. The dough will be light in about three hours, then shape 
into loaves. They will become light in about one hour; bake the 
fifth hour. 

GLUTEN BREAD 

3 cups of milk or water. 2 tablespoonfuls of melted butter. 

I cake of compressed yeast. § teaspoonful of salt. 

About 3 pints of gluten flour. 2 tablespoonfuls of sugar, if agree- 

1 egg. able. 

Make a sponge, having the milk or water lukewarm, with the 
liquid, yeast and a pint of flour. When light add the salt, butter, 
sugar, if used, the beaten egg and gluten flour to knead. Knead 
until smooth and elastic. Shape into loaves. Bake about one 
hour. 

ENGLISH SAFFRON LOAF 

Make a sponge of two cups of milk, a cake of compressed yeast, 
softened in a scant half cup of lukewarm water, three or four table- 
spoonfuls of saffron water and about three cups of flour. When light 
add half a cup of melted butter, three eggs, three fourths cup of 
sugar, a teaspoonful of salt, an ounce of caraway seeds, a teaspoon- 
ful, each, of cinnamon and mace, and half a teaspoonful of cloves. 
Mix thoroughly, then add flour to make a soft dough. Beat the 
dough for fifteen minutes and turn into round cake pans. When 
light bake about an hour. Saffron cakes or loaves are said to be 
wholesome and palatable. Saffron is a stimulant and is thought 
to aid digestion. To make saffron water, steep the leaves in 
boiling water for a few minutes, then drain off the water. Serve 
with cocoa or coffee. 

PARKER HOUSE ROLLS 

2 cups of scalded milk. 2 tablespoonfuls of sugar. 
I yeast cake. i teaspoonful of salt. 

i cup of lukewarm water. J cup of butter. 

Flour. 

Make a sponge of the milk, scalded and cooled, the yeast cake, 
softened in the lukewarm water, and about three cups of flour; 
beat thoroughly, cover, and set aside until light; then add the sugar, 
salt, melted butter and flour to knead. Knead about twenty min- 
utes; let rise until double in bulk. Gently turn on to a lightly 



BREAD STICKS 371 

floured board, upper side down, roll into a sheet half an inch thick, 
cut into rounds, brush over one half of each round with melted 
butter and fold the other half over the buttered half. Set close 
together in a buttered pan. When doubled in bulk, bake about half 
an hour; glaze just before taking from oven. 

CRESCENTS 

Prepare a Parker House roll mixture, adding flour to make a very 
stiff dough; when light roll out in a sheet one eighth an inch in 
thickness and cut into strips about seven inches wide; cut these into 
sharp-pointed triangles, then, commencing at the base, roll them 
up, bring the ends toward each other, keeping the point in the 
middle of the roll to give the shape of a crescent. Place on baking 
tins some distance apart, when light brush the tops with warm 
water and bake from fifteen to twenty minutes; then brush over 
with yolk of egg beaten with two tablespoonf uls of milk, and return 
to the oven to brown. 

SALAD OR LUNCHEON ROLLS 

Use the formula for Parker House rolls, increasing the quantity 
of butter somewhat and adding the whites of two stfe-beaten eggs. 
Shape into balls and let rise until light and puffy, then make a deep 
crease in the middle of each biscuit with the floured handle of a 
small wooden spoon; brush the crease with melted butter and press 
the edges together. Place the biscuits close together in a buttered 
pan, cover, let rise a little and bake twelve to fifteen minutes in a 
hot oven. 

BREAD STICKS 

I cup of scalded milk. I teaspoonful of salt. 

I cake of compressed yeast. White of an egg. 

i cup of lukewarm water. 2 tablespoonfuls of butter. 

I tablespoonful of sugar. Flour. 

Make a sponge of the milk, yeast and flour; when light add the 
other ingredients, the white of egg beaten until light; when ready 
to shape, form into small balls, then roll (without flour) on the 
board with the hands, until strips, uniform in size and in shape of 
a thick lead pencil, are formed. Set to rise in a pan designed for 
the purpose, leaving them full or half length, as desired. Before 
rolling, wait until the balls (closely covered) are very light. 



372 PRACTICAL COOKING AND SERVING 

BRAIDS 

Roll the sticks to the desired length, then braid them in three 
or four strands, having the braids wider in the centre than at the 
ends. 

SWEDISH ROLLS (SPICED CURRANT) 

t pint of scalded milk. | cup of sugar. 

I cake of compressed yeast. i teaspoonful of salt. 

§ cup of lukewarm water. Flour to knead. 

3 eggs. 3 tablespoonfuls of sugar. 

1 cup of butter. 2 tablespoonfuls of cinnamon. 

1 cup of currants. 

Make a sponge and prepare the dough as in all biscuit mixtures 
made with yeast. When ready to shape, roll into a sheet about 
one fourth an inch thick, brush over with butter, dredge with the 
cinnamon and sugar and sprinkle with the currants; roll up like a 
jelly roll, cut into roimds and set on end, side by side, in a pan; 
when light bake about half an hour; a little longer time is needed 
than for ordinary biscuit of the same size. Wien baked, brush 
over the tops with yolk of egg diluted with milk, or with sugar 
dissolved in milk, and return to the oven to brown. 

GERMAN COFFEE CAKE. (MRS. DE BARRY) 

2 cups of scalded milk. i cup of water. 

t cake of compressed yeast. Juice and grated rind of one lemon. 

i cup of lukewarm wat«r. i teaspoonful of salt. 

4 eggs. Flour. 

I cup of melted butter Blanched almonds. 

Soften the yeast in the water and add to the cooled milk with 
enough flour to make a batter. When light and spongy add the 
eggs, beaten without separating, the butter, lemon juice, salt, and 
flour to make a soft dough that may be Imeaded. Knead until 
elastic, then set aside until light. When light roll out in a sheet 
an inch thick and fit into pans. When again light brush over the 
top with white of egg and sprinkle with blanched almonds, fine 
chopped. Bake about half an hour. Reheat by letting stand a 
Uv moments in a hot oven. Serve with coffee or chocolate. 



OATMEAL BISCUITS 373 

GERMAN COFFEE CAKE 

1 cup of scalded milk. i cup of sugar. 

3 cakes of comi^ressed yeast i teaspoonf ul of salt, 

i cup of water. i egg. 

Flour for a sponge. Grating of lemon rind. 

i cup of melted butter. Flour. 

Make a sponge with the milk, yeast softened in the water, and 
flour; when light add the other ingredients and flour to make a very 
stiff batter; beat thoroughly; when light again spread in a buttered 
dripping pan, cover, and let rise. Wien ready for the oven, brush 
over with beaten egg and dust thickly with sugar and cinnamon, 
mixed. Bake in a hot oven. 

ZWEIBACK. (BERLINER FRAU) 

2 cups of scalded and cooled milk Flour for a sponge (nearly 3 cups). 

or water, or half of each. 5 cup of butter. 

I cake of compressed yeast. | cup of sugar. 

J cup of lukewarm water. 3 eggs. 

I teaspoonful of salt. Floiu: as for bread. 

Shape into long narrow loaves and bake about fifty minutes. 
When cold cut into slices about half an inch thick and brown in the 
oven or dry in a slow oven without browning. 

EASTER OR HOT CROSS BUNS 

Use the recipe for Zweiback and either white or entire wheat 
flour. When the dough is ready for shaping, form into balls, place 
these on a baking sheet, some distance apart, smooth side up; cover 
and let rise. When ready for the oven score the buns, in form of a 
cross, and bake in a hot oven; brush over the tops with the yolk of 
an egg, diluted with one fourth cup of milk in which one fourth 
tablespoonful of sugar has been dissolved; dust the cross thickly 
with cinnamon and return to the oven for a few moments. Or, 
after baking, pipe a frosting cross on each bun. 

OATMEAL BISCUITS 

3 cups of hot milk. i yeast cake. 

1 cup of uncooked oatmeal. J cup of lukewarm, water 

3 tablespoonfuls of butter. About 2 cups, each, of white and 

I teaspoonful of salt. entire wheat flour. 

i cup of sugar or molasses. 



374 PRACTICAL COOKING AND SERVING 

Stir the oatmeal into the scalded milk, let stand five minutes, 
then add the butter, salt, and sweetening; when liikewarm add the 
yeast cake, softened in the lukewarm water, and the flour; beat 
very thoroughly and set to rise; when light beat a second time and 
drop from a spoon into very small timbale moulds. Half fill the 
moulds. Bake in a hot oven, when the dough fills the moulds. 

SALLY LUNN. (MRS. PETERSON, VIRGINIA) 

I cup of scalded milk. i teaspoonful of salt. 

I cup of boiled water. 4 eggs, well beaten. 

i cake of compressed yeast. i cup of butter mixed with lard o* 

J cup of lukewarm water. cottolene. 

3 cups of flour. I quart of flour. 

At eleven o'clock a. m. make a sponge of the milk, water, yeast 
and three cups of flour. When light, at about half-past one, add 
the eggs, shortening, salt, and the flour; beat hard and turn into the 
pans in which it is to be baked. Bake for tea. 

PULLED BREAD 

Remove bread from the oven before it is quite baked — that is, 
reduce the ordioary time of baking ten or fifteen minutes. Grate 
off a thin layer of brown from the outside, as when making "rasped" 
rolls, then with the hands pull the loaf apart and into pieces half 
the size of the hand and less than an inch thick; return to the oven, 
or the warming oven, in a dripping pan and let cook or dry xmtil 
colored slightly. Serve at once or set aside and reheat before 
serving. 

PULLED BREAD, NO. 2 

Use a long loaf of French bread, or home-made bread, kneaded in 
such a manner that the grain of the bread will be lengthwise of the 
loaf. Bake the loaf thoroughly, and when cool enough to handle 
remove the crusts. Gash the loaf at ends and pull apart into halves, 
pulling from the outside toward the centre. Gash the halves and 
separate into quarters. Repeat the process until the pieces are 
tiie size of a large bread stick. Place on a rack in a pan and dry 
out the moisture in a slow oven; then brown to a delicate color. 
Tvcep in a dry place and reheat before serving. The bread should 
snao when broken. 



SWEDISH TEA RING 375 

RASPED ROLLS 

Use a Parker House or other xinsweetened roll mixture; shape 
into balls about the size of an ordinary Parker House roll. Set 
some distance apart on a buttered tin, and when light bake until 
the whole surface is of an uniform brown color. Grate off a very 
thin layer from the outside of the crust in a rasping machine. 
When only a few are to be prepared an ordinary lemon grater may 
be used, great care being taken to remove the outer layer of crust 
evenly. 

SWEDISH TEA RING 

Soften a cake of compressed yeast in one fourth cup of scalded- 
and-cooled milk; mix and add to one cup of milk, scalded and 
cooled to a lukewarm temperature. Stir in enough flour to make 
a batter; beat imtil smooth, then cover and set aside to become 
light. Add one whole egg and a yolk, or three yolks of eggs, one 
fourth cup of sugar, half a teaspoonf ul of salt, and flour to make a 
dough that may be kneaded. Knead vmtil smooth and elastic. 
Cover and set aside (out of draughts) to become doubled in bulk. 
Without cutting the dough down, divide into two pieces of same 
size. Set one of these upside down (crusty side down) on a board, 
pat and roll into a rectangular sheet less than half an inch thick ; 
brush over with butter, sprinkle with sultana raisins and pecan 
nuts, or filberts, broken in pieces. Use from a half to a full cup 
of fruit and nuts; roll up like ajelly roll; lift the roll to a baking pan 
and bring the ends together to form a ring; fasten the ends secure 
and in such a careful manner as will conceal the joining. With 
scissors cut through the ring from the edge nearly to the centre, at 
each side, entirely roimd the ring; cut a little on the slant and turn 
each division with the scissors or fingers, to show the layers of 
dough and fruit, etc. That is, cut down through the roll with the 
scissors and with them turn the cut side of the dough upward. 
When again light brush the dough with beaten yolk of egg, mijced 
with milk, and dredge with sliced nuts. Bake about half an hour. 

ENGLISH MUFFINS 

Soften a yeast cake in half a cup of lukewarm water. Add this 
to a cup of scalded-and-coo|ed milk, into which two tablespooiif uls 
of butter has been melted. Add also half a teaspoonful of salt and 
one cup and a half of sifted bread flour. Beat the above mixture 



376 PRACTICAL COOKING AND SERVING 

until it is very smooth. Then cover, and set to rise. When the 
sponge is light, beat into it about two cups, or two and one fourth 
cups, of flour, continuing the beating some few minutes (eight or 
ten), to make a tough batter. Cover, and let stand vmtil again 
light. The mixture is now ready to use, or it may be cut down, 
covered, and set into the refrigerator until morning. When ready 
to bake, cut the dough into twenty-four pieces. ELnead these 
with buttered fingers or on a lightly floured board (the dough is 
rather soft). Then pat them to the size of the rings. Have the 
board well floured, and the muffin rings well buttered. Put the 
rings on the board and the dough in the rings, and cover close with 
a pan or cloth. When the dough a little more than half fills the 
rings, remove the rings and dough with a spatula to a well-heated 
and buttered griddle. Keep the griddle of uniform heat, and, when 
the muffins are baked on one side, turn muffins and rings, and bake 
the other side. When the muffins are baked, cut through the crust, 
then tear apart with the fingers (as a cracker is split), and toast the 
halves over a bed of coals. Spread the rough side with butter as 
soon as toasted and serve at once. The muffin rings used for this 
recipe were two and three fourths inches in diameter. Rings of a 
larger size may be used. Toasted muffins are served with mar- 
marlade and tea as a light lunch, or with a green vegetable salad 
and cheese as a salad course. 

TOAST 

When toast is properly made the moisture in the bread is slowly 
dried out, and then the outside of the slice is changed by stronger 
heat to a golden brown. This requires constant attention; the 
bread needs be turned constantly, lest it brown before the drying 
out is completed. This process changes the starch to dextrose, 
and thtis continues, outside the stomach, the digestion of the starch 
begun in the first cooking of the bread. A bed of coals, a hinged 
toaster, and a slice of stale bread would seem to be the sine qua non 
for this operation; but a well-toasted slice of bread is not the im- 
possibility that the ordinary result would indicate when gas and 
oil stoves are used for this purpose. When a gas range is used, the 
toaster needs be held slightly above the hot plate set over the flame, 
or else under the flame in the lower oven. 

Cut the bread for toast in even slices one fourth an inch thick, 
these may be toasted as cut, but they look better when the slices 
are trimmed to be uniform in shape and size. Prepare and serve 



TOMATO TOAST NO. 2 377 

a few slices at once and when needed. Send to the table in a hot 
toast rack, or, if a plate be used, keep the slices separate and thus 
crisp. Toast used for meat in sauces, poached eggs, etc., is usually 
dipped quickly into boiling salted water, then spread with soft- 
ened or creamed butter. When used under game, it is moistened 
with the drippings from the baking pan and spread with the liver 
of the game mashed fine and seasoned. For serving as dry toast, 
pleasing effects are secured by changes in the toaster. Toasters 
with lengthwise wires and those with lengthwise and crosswise 
wires give different results. 

MILK TOAST 

Cut four slices of bread half an inch thick and toast as above 
dip the edges of each slice into boiling salted water, arrange on a 
serving dish and pour over them one cup of white sauce made with 
milk. Or the slices, one at a time, may be put in the dish of sauce, 
and, when the sauce has been dipped over them, transferred to the 
serving dish. 

TOMATO TOAST 

Prepare four slices of milk toast. Remove the skin from two 

' tomatoes and cut in halves ; dip in melted butter, then in fine cracker 

or bread crumbs, sprinkle with salt and broil until the tomato is 

softened and the crmnbs browned. Serve half a tomato on each 

slice of toast. 

TOMATO TOAST, NO. 2 

Prepare as milk toast, using half a cup, each, of tomato pulp and 
milk in the sauce. Grated cheese may be added, if desired. 

CREAM TOAST 

Prepare four slices of toast; dust with salt and poiu- over one cup 
and a half of cream that has been kept heated to about 160° Fahr. 
fifteen minutes or longer. 

CREAM TOAST WITH CHEESE 

Sprinkle hot toasted bread with grated cheese, and set in the oven 
' until the cheese melts; pour over hot cream, or white sauce made 
with milk, and serve at once. A beaten egg may be added to the 
cream or to the sauce. 



378 PRACTICAL COOKING AND SERVING 

RECIPES FOR BREAD WITH OTHER LEAVENING 
AGENTS THAN YEAST 

JOHNNY-CAKE 

Stir one pint of scalded milk or water, or half of each, into one 
cup of yellow or white cornmeal, to which a teaspoonful of salt has 
been added. Bake in a shallow pan. 

JOHNNY-CAKE, NO. 2 

Into one pint of meal and one teaspoonful of salt stir boiling 
water to make a thick drop batter; thin to a thick poiu: batter 
with cold milk; drop by tablespoonfuls on to a hot buttered frying- 
pan and bake as griddle cakes. 

POPOVERS. (ANNIE C. QROVER) 

Beat three eggs until very light without separating; add, alter- 
nately, sifted flour and milk — a little at a time — until a pint of 
each has been used; beat thoroughly with the egg-beater. Put one 
f«urth teaspoonful of butter into each hot cup, and fill them 
two thirds their height with the batter. Bake between forty and 
fifty minutes in a rather hot oven; use for a change half entire 
wheat flour. 

MARYLAND BEATEN BISCUIT. ("ROSIE") 

With the tips of the fingers work a teaspoonful of butter into each 
pint of flour, then mix with milk to a dough; beat twenty minutes, 
then cut into roimds and bake in a moderate oven. 



BEATEN BISCUIT, NO. 2 

Sift together two quarts of flour, one teaspoonful of salt, and two 
level teaspoonfuls of baking-powder; with the tips of the fingers 
work in one fourth cup of butter; then, using one and a half to 
two cups of ice water, mix to a dough; beat twenty minutes, cut 
into rounds, prick with a fork, and bake about thirty minutes. 



BREAKFAST CORN CAKE 379 

D VIRGINIA BATTER BREAD. (MRS. PETERSON, WEST 
VIRGINIA) 

itir one pint of cornmeal into one quart of scalded milk; stir and 
k to a "mush." Let cool a little, add a teaspoonful of salt, half 
lip of sugar, and the well-beaten yolks of three eggs, and, lastly, 
1 in the whites of three eggs/ beaten stiff. Melt two tablespoon- 
> of shortening in the baking pan, pour in the mixture, and bake 
ty-five minutes. 

OLD VIRGINIA BATTER BREAD WITH VARIATIONS 

Jtir one cup either of rice or grits, previously cooked, and one cup 
cornmeal into one quart of scalded milk and preceed as above. 

[IQINIA SPOON CORNBREAD. (MRS. PETERSON, WEST 
VIRGINIA) 

J cup of breakfast hominy. 2 tablespoonfuls of butter. 

1 quart of boiling water. 3 eggs. 

2 teaspoonfuls of salt. i cup of milk. 

2 tablesponfuls of cottolene or lard, i pint of cornmeal. 
ij teaspoonfuls of baking-powder. 

A.dd the salt to the water, stir in the hominy and cook thirty 
nutes; then add the shortening, the eggs beaten and mixed with 
5 milk, and, lastly, the cornmeal sifted with the baking-powder, 
ke in a buttered pudding dish three fourths an hour. Send to 
s table in the dish in which it is baked. Serve with a spoon, 
le quantity indicated in the recipe will serve ten people. 

BREAKFAST CORN CAKE 

I cup of butter. 2I cups of yellow cornmeal. 

1 cup •f sugar. ij cups of white flour. 

Yolks of three eggs. 2 teaspoonfuls of creamof -tartar. 

2 cups of milk. i teaspoonful of goda. 

Whites of three eggs. 

Cream the butter and add the sugar gradually, then the egg yolks 
iten and mixed with the milk, the meal, and flour sifted with the 
ia and cream-of-tartar, and, lastly, the whites of the eggs beaten 
f: Bake in a dripping pan about twenty-five minutes. Measure 
t cream-of-tartar, slightly rounding. 



38o PRACTICAL COOKING AND SERVING 

STOCKBRIDQE CAKE (MASSACHUSETTS) 

4. level teaspoonfuls of yellow i teaspoonf ul of sugar. 

conmieal. } teaspoonful of salt. 

( teaspoonful of butter. 3 eggs. 

I pint of scalded milk. 

Stir the meal into the hot milk, add the salt and let cook until 
the millf thickens a little. Add the butter, sugar, beaten yolks 
of eggs, and, lastly, the whites of the eggs beaten stiff. Bake in a 
deep buttered dish twenty to thirty minutes. Serve from the dish 
in which it is baked. 

SPIDER CORN CAKE. (MISS PARLOA) 

1 cup of commeal. 1 egg. 

i cup of white flour. i cup of sweet milk. 

2 tablespoonfuls of sugar. i cup of thick sour milk. 
i teaspoonful of salt. 2 tablespoonfuls of butter. 
i teaspoonful of soda. i cup of sweet milk. 

Sift together the dry ingredients, stir in the egg beaten and 
mixed with half a cup of sweet milk, and the sour milk, which 
should be very thick. Melt the butter in a small frying-pan, turn 
in the mixture and pour the second half cup of sweet milk over this 
without stirring. Bake about twenty-five minutes. Cut in tri- 
angles for serving. This corn cake is some times called custard 
corn cake, as, when the conditions are favorable, a line of creamy 
custard is formed within the cake. 

BOSTON BROWN BREAD 

I cup of yellow commeal. i teaspoonful of salt. 

I cup of rye meal. 2 teaspoonfuls of soda. 

I cup of entire wheat flour. | cup of molasses. 

I pint of thick sour milk. 

Pass the dry ingredients together through a sieve and add the 
molasses and sour milk; beat thoroughly and turn into a buttered 
mould. Steam three hours. Replenish the steamer with boiling 
water as needed. Large and small moulds for steaming this bread 
are purchasable. Baking-powder cans, poimd size, may be used. 
Four cans are needed for this redpe. Two hours' cooking will 
suflBce in this case, but longer steaming is no disadvantage. If 
raisins are used, seed them and add here and there as the batter 



ENTIRE WHEAT MUFFINS 361 

is turned into the mould. To decorate a loaf that is to be sent 
whole to the table, cut the raisins almost in halves, remove the 
seeds and press against the buttered sides of the mould, then turn 
in the mixture. Though it does not give as good bread, water may 
supply the place of the sour milk; one cup and three fourths will be 
sufficient. Sour cream as part of the liquid is good. 

BOSTON BROWN BREAD, NO. 2 

Sift rye and yellow commeal, then measure out a cup of each, 
half a teaspoonful of salt, and two teaspoonfuls of soda; mix with 
one cup of thick sour milk, half a cup of warm (not hot) water, and 
half a cup of molasses. Turn into a buttered mould and steam three 
hours after boiling begins. 

BOSTON BROWN BREAD. (DR. MARY NICOLA) 

Sift together one cup, each, of sifted rye and yellow commeal, 
and half a teaspoonful of salt; add half a cup of molasses, then well- 
beaten yolks of two eggs and from one to one and a half cups of 
thin cream; lastly, fold in the whites of two eggs beaten until dry. 
Turn into a buttered mould and steam three hours; then bake one 
hour. 

GENERAL RULE FOR MUFFINS 

Sift together one cup, each, of meal and flour, or two of flour, half 
a teaspoonful of salt, four or Ave level teaspoonfuls of baking 
powder and from two tablespoonfuls to half a cup of sugar. Beat 
an egg until light without separating, add one cup and a fourth of 
milk, and stir at once into the dry ingredients. Add also from one 
tablespoonful to one fourth cup of melted butter; beat thoroughly 
and bake about twenty-five minutes in a hot, well-buttered muffin 
or gem pan. 

ENTIRE WHEAT MUFFINS 

I cup of white flour. 3i teaspoonfuls of baking-powder. 

1 cup of entire wheat flour. i egg. 

2 tablespoonfuls of sugar. if cups of milk. 

i teaspoonful of salt. 3 tablespoonfuls of melted butter. 

CORNMEAL MUFFINS 

i cup of butter. 2 cups of flour. 

f cup of sugar. i cup of commeal. 

2 eggs. 4 teaspoonfuls of baking-powder. 

I cup of milk, I teaspoonful of salt, 



382 PRACTICAL COOKING AND SERVING 

Cream the butter, add the sugar, the eggs beaten without separa- 
ting and, alternately, the milk and the rest of the dry ingredients 
sifted together. Bake in a hot, buttered muf6n pan about twenty- 
five minutes. 

CORNMEAL PUFFS 

I cup of milk. 2 eggs. 

I tablespoonf ul of butter. J cup of sugar. 

i teaspoonful of salt. J cup of flour. 

^ cup of cornmeal (scant). 2 teaspoonfuls of baking-powder. 

Scald the milk, add the butter and salt and stir in the cornmeal 
(granulated, yellow meal preferred), stir and let thicken a few 
moments, then cool; add the eggs, beaten without separating, and 
the sugar, flour and baking-powder sifted together. Turn into a 
hot, buttered muffin pan and bake fifteen or twenty minutes in a 
hot oven. The recipe makes one dozen delicious cakes. 

TWIN MOUNTAIN MUFFINS 

i cup of butter. i egg. 

I cup of sugar. J cup of milk. 

I teaspoonful of salt. 2 cups of floiu:. 

4 teaspoonfuls of baking-powder. 

Cream the butter, add the sugar gradually, then alternately the 
egg beaten and mixed with the milk and the flour sifted with the 
baking-powder. Bake in hot roll pan about twenty-five minutes. 

BLUEBERRY MUFFINS 

To the mixture for Twin Mountain muffins add at least one cup 
of blueberries. 

DATE MUFFINS 

To the butter and sugar creamed together for Twin Mountain 
mufiins, add one fourth pound of dates, chopped fine. 

WHEAT PUFFETS 

i cup of butter. i cup of mOk. 

i cup of sugar. 3 cups of flour. 

I egg and yolk of another. 4 teaspoonfuls of baking-powder 

Mix in the same manner as Twin Mountain muffins. 



SWEDISH ROLLS 383 

CREAM SCONES 

2 cups of flour. J cup of butter. 

3 teaspoonfuls of baking-powder. 2 eggs. 

1 teaspoonf ul of salt. 5 cup of cream. 

Mix as baking-powder biscuit, adding the beaten eggs with the 
cream. Serve with chocolate for luncheon. A diamond shape is 
attractive for scones. 

BAKINQ-POWDER BISCUITS 

2 cups of flour. 2 tablespoonfuls to } cup of 
I teaspoonful of salt. shortening. 

4 teaspoonfuls of baking-powder. About i cup of milk or milk and water. 

Sift together the dry ingredients; with a knife or the tips of the 
fingers work in the shortening, then add the milk and mix with 
knife to a dough. Toss on to a board lightly dredged with flour; 
knead gently, then pat with the rolling pin into a sheet, cut into 
rounds and bake about fifteen minutes. 

SWEDISH ROLLS 

1 cups of flour. I egg. 

i teaspoonful of salt. J cup rich milk (about). 

3^ teaspoonfuls of baking- i tablespoonful of sugar, 

powder. i teaspoonful of cinnamon. 

3 tablespoonfuls of butter. J cup of currants or sultanas. 

Mix as cream scones, then roll into a rectangular sheet one fourth 
an inch thick, longer one way than the other. Spread the sheet 
with softened butter, then sprinkle with the sugar, cinnamon, and 
currants or raisins. Roll up as a jelly roll, having the roll long 
rather than thick. Cut the roll into pieces nearly an inch in thick- 
ness. Bake on a buttered tin about eighteen minutes. Brush over 
with a little sugar dissolved in milk and return to the oven to 
brown. 
BLUEBERRY TEA CAKE, (EMMA HILL, NEW HAMPSHIRE) 

i cup of softened butter. 2 cups of flour. 

1 cup of sugar. i teaspoonful of soda. 

i cup of thin cream. 3 teaspoonfuls of cream-of-tartar. 

2 eggs beaten without separating. i cup of blueberries. 

Mix as any butter cake, when baked cut in squares and serve hot 
with butter for luncheon or tea. 



384 PRACTICAL COOKING AND SERVING 

BREAD CRUMB QRIDDLE CAKES 

2 cups of bread crumbs. i egg. 

I pint of thick sour milk. i teaspoonful of soda. 

1 cup of flour. I teaspoonful of salt. 

Soak the crumbs in cold water, wring out the water and stir with 
the flour into the milk. Let stand over night, then add the egg 
beaten very light, the salt, the soda, dissolved in a tablespoonful 
of cold water, and more flour or liquid as required. Or better 
still, soak the crumbs in the sour milk. 

RICE QRIDDLE CAKES 

2 cups of hot boiled rice. | teaspoonful of salt. 

3 cups of flour. 2 cups of milk. 

4 teaspoonfuls of baking-powder. 2 eggs. 

Stir the salt and milk into the hot rice; let cool, then add the yolk 
of the eggs, well beaten, and the flour sifted with the baking-powder, 
and, lastly, the whites of the eggs beaten until dry. For rice waffles 
omit half a cup of the milk and add one fourth cup of melted 
butter. 

CORNMEAL AND RICE QRIDDLE CAKES 

J cup of commeal. 2 teaspoonfuls of baking-powder, 

} cup of flour. I teaspoonful of salt. 

I cup of cold boiled rice. 2 eggs. 

I cup of rich milk. 

Sift together the dry ingredients and stir in the beaten yolks of 
the eggs mixed with the milk; add the whites of the eggs, beaten 
stiff, at the last. 

CORNMEAL AND RICE WAFFLES 

dd to the recipe given above for griddle cakes one fourth a cup 
of melted butter. 

BUCKWHEAT QRIDDLE CAKES 

I cup of buckwheat flour. i tablespoonful of sugar. 

J teaspoonful of salt. v 2 teaspoonfuls of b^ng-powder. 

li cups of cold water (nearly). 

Sift the dry ingredients, add the water, all at once, and mix 
thoroughly; bake at once on a hot griddle. 



WAFFLES WITH SOUR MILK 385 

FLANNEL CAKES 

3i cups of flour. 4 teaspoonfuls of baking-powder. 

i teaspoonftil of salt. 2 cups of sweet milk. 

2 eggs. 

Sift together the flour, salt, and baking-powder; add the yolks 
of the eggs beaten and mixed with the sweet milk, and, lastly, the 
whites of the eggs beaten dry. 

KORNLET GRIDDLE CAKES 

2 cups of flour. 3 teaspoonfuls of baking-powder. 

2 cups of milk. 2 cups of komlet. 

2 eggs. J teaspoonful of salt. 

2 tablespoonfuls of butter. 

Stir the milk with the beaten yolks of the eggs into the komlet; 
add the flour sifted with the salt and baking-powder, and, lastly, 
the whites of the eggs beaten stiff. 

WAFFLES WITH SOUR MILK 

1} cups of flour. I cup of thick sour milk. 

i teaspooai\il of salt. 2 eggs. . 

i teaspoonful of soda. 3 tablespoonfuls of melted butter. 

Sift together the flour, salt, and soda; add the yolks of the eggs 
beaten and mixed with the sour milk, the melted butter, and, lastly, 
the whites of the eggs beaten dry. Have both sides of the waffle 
iron hot and well oiled; put a tablespoonful of the mixture in each 
compartment and let down the top ; when the mixture is baked upon 
one side, turn the iron to brown the other side. Remove the 
waffles, when cooked, with a fork. 

RICH WAFFLES 

i§ cups of flour. i teaspoonful of salt. 

2 teaspoonfuls of baking-powder. 2 eggs. 

t cup of sweet thick cream. 

Add the beaten yolks with the cream to the dry ingredients, 
then the whites, beaten dry, and bake at once. 



386 PRACTICAL COOKING AND SERVING 

RICE GRIDDLE CAKES 

Blanch half a cup of rice (page 27); add a teaspoonful of salt 
and three pints of boiling water and let cook until the rice is tender. 
Pass through a sieve and set aside for future use. When cold the 
rice should be in a semi-liquid state. To one cup and a half of 
rice add half a teaspoonful of salt, the beaten yolks of two eggs, 
one cup of sifted flour, sifted again with two level teaspoonfuls of 
baking-powder, and, when well mixed, the whites of two eggs 
beaten dry. Bake by spoonfuls on a hot griddle. By adding 
another egg less flour may be used. This is an advantage as, griddle 
cakes being cooked quickly, the flour is liable to be under cooked. 



CHAPTER XVI 
Cake and Cake Making 

" Cake is acceptable at every kind of luncheon; in fact, cakes were invented 
for that meal, for five o'clock tea, weddings, and for schoolboys only." 

— WVVERN 

Another form of batter or dough is that to which after cooking 
the term cake is applied. Cakes are made light by the same means 
as other mixtures of this class and may be considered in the same 
order as the various forms of bread have been considered. 

Thudicum speaks of cakes as "forms of sweetened, flavored, and 
ornamented bread that signalize an evolution of cookery and, like 
confectionery, or including it, are a measure of culture." 

There is much of sentiment connected with different varieties 
of cake, which, apart from any intrinsic merit contained therein, 
commend them to their sponsors. Probably the cakes of greatest 
antiquity that are still in use are those that are lightened with 
yeast, as French brioche, Polish baba, kugel hopfe of the Germans, 
ratan cake, claimed by both the French and Germans, English 
Bath buns, and Scotch shortbread. The forms in which these cakes 
appear are numerous, varying with the object for which they are 
intended. They are modified, also, by the addition of fruit, nuts, 
etc. Sometimes, too, they are served with a rich syrup, flavored 
with wine, in which case they partake more of the character of a 
pudding. In respect to manipulation, these cakes may be classed 
under two heads, of which brioche and ratan cake may be taken as 
representative. Brioche is partly flaky, and rises in layers; while 
the ratan cake rises like sponge cake, in minute and uniform 
bubbles. 

While these cakes are common abroad, especially in the countries 
to which they owe their origin, outside of our large cities they are 
not well known to housekeepers in the United States. In the 
cities there seems to be an increasing demand for this sort of tooth- 
some dainty, yet, because of the time required in the preparation 
of all yeast mixtures, many housekeepers do pot attempt the 



388 PRACTICAL COOKING AND SERVING 

production, but depend for supply upon some restaurant of noted 
excellence. Coffee cakes and zweiback (the last properly called 
biscuit, because literally twice baked) are the forms of these con- 
fections most common. Near akin to the ratan cake is the elec- 
tion, or loaf cake, so common in the early days of our republic. 

What is sold abroad as biscuit, and here as sponge cake, and 
cakes made with butter, and known as cup and poimd cakes, are 
the cakes most in evidence in this country. Of these sponge cake 
and pound cake, when tradition is followed, are lightened simply 
by the expansion of air incorporated into eggs by beating. Cup 
cakes are lightened partly by this method, but principally by the 
addition of carbon dioxide set free from a carbonate by an acid 
(see page 352). 

No article on cakes would be complete without special mention 
of meringues and petits chou, or cakelets, made of chou paste. 
Of the first ThudicUm says: "Meringues are classical confec- 
tions, having a good prospect of immortality, as they caimot easily 
be improved, spoiled, or altered. They have probably a history 
of more than a thousand years." Swedish meringues, in whidi 
starch supplies the place of a part of the egg whites, are a confection 
that may be classed with sponge cake. Petits chou may be re- 
garded as the connecting link between cake and pastry; they afford 
grounds for considering, as do the French, the matter of cakes as 
a part of the general subject of pastry. These cakes are made of a 
batter previously boiled, and eggs; the hollow centres, when baked, 
are filled with sweetened and flavored cream or a custard mixture. 

PRELIMINARIES 

Before beginning to mix cake have everything needed at hand, 
and in such condition that the ingredients can be put together 
quickly, i.e. 

1. Measure or weigh out the exact quantities of the different 
ingredients to be used. Weight is preferable to measure, especially 
in the case of butter. 

2. Sift the flour before measuring, and sift again with the bak- 
ing-powder, or soda and cream-of -tartar. 

3. Pulverize and sift soda before measuring, and add always to 
the flour; baking-powder is better sifted, but it may be made light 
by working with a spoon. 

4. To cream butter successfully, it should be at about the tem- 
perature of the living room (70° Fahr.). If too cold, it may stand 



TEMPERATURE OF THE OVEN 389 

a short time in the mixing bowl after that has been heated ^ghtly 
with warm water and wiped dry. 

5. Have the pans (if the ordinary pan be used) buttered and 
floured, or lined with paper, and the paper buttered. 

6. Break the eggs, one by one, over a cup, separating the whites 
from yolks when desired. Beat the yolks, but let the whites stand 
unbeaten in a cool place until the cake is nearly mixed. 

7. When fruit is used, cut citron in slices, and then in narrow 
strips; seed raisins, and cut them in pieces; remove stems from 
sultanas; wash currants on a coarse sieve, then dry. Fruit to be 
mixed through a cake may be added to the butter and sugar 
creamed together, without dredging with flour; in layers, dredge 
lightly with flour, then, when the cake is mixed, sprinkle in be- 
tween layers of cake mixture. 

THE FIRE 

Electricity, gas, or oil, the heat from all of which may be regu- 
lated to a nicety, are ideal fuels for cake baking, and in no branch 
of cooking is such nice adjustment of heat demanded as in the 
baking of pastry and cake. Even at the present prices, where one 
is to bake several cakes in the morning (as do consignors to indus- 
trial unions, etc.), electricity or gas w5l be foimd more economical 
than coal. If the fuel be wood or coal, the fire should be in such 
condition that it may be regulated easily and last through the 
baking without being replenished — i.e., do not attempt to bake a 
delicate cake mixture with a freshly built coal fire, or with a fire 
from which the life has largely died out. 

TEMPERATURE OF THE OVEN 

Layer cakes and small cakes require a hotter oven than loaf 
cake. So cakes made with baking-powder call for a higher tem- 
perature (the carbon dioxide is evolved more quickly) than do 
cakes made of cream-of-tartar and soda, lemon juice and soda, or 
molasses and soda. 

Biscuit, or sponge cake, and poimd cake, will bake at a lower 
temperature than cake lightened with carbon dioxide. 

Also, cakes made rich with yolks of eggs require less heat than 
cakes made with whites of eggs — i.e., an oven should be hotter for 
an angel cake than for yellow form of sponge cake (yolks of eggs 
are ridi in fat, hence they bum quickly). 

Cake containing fruit should be baked in a slow oven. 



39° PRACTICAL COOKING AND SERVING 

UTENSILS 

Earthen bowls for mixing the ingredients and beating eggs, 
a slitted wooden spoon, an ordinary sized sieve for flour, a small 
sieve for soda, etc., a Dover egg-beater, an egg whisk, pastry bag, 
and tubes for lady-fingers, Eclairs, and frosting, a small saucepan 
for boiling sugar, scales, measuring cups, and a variety of baking 
tins are the most important utensOs needed for work in this branch 
of the culinary art. 

MATERIALS 

Cake has come to be classed with confectionery, and to be 
eaten only occasionally as a luxury. Thus, in its preparation, the 
choicest materials are demanded — the best flour and butter, fine 
granulated sugar, fresh eggs, and choice fruits, nuts and flavorings. 
The miller, by skilful devices, has evolved a flour especially adapted 
to produce a light, tender, deHcate cake; when this is not available, 
the choicest pastry flour should be selected. Bread flour is some- 
times used, but, as it contains a large quantity, comparatively, of 
gluten, it gives when used with other leavening agents than yeast, 
a thick, compact cake. The recipes are written for pastry flour, 
save in yeast mixtures and it may be necessary to increase or 
diminish, slightly, the quantity, as the thickening property of flour 
varies; when bread flour is used with baking-powder, the quantity 
given should be diminished by two level tablespoonfuls for each 
cup. 

Spices should be sifted with the flour. 

Fine granulated sugar gives the best results, powdered sugar 
making a close, dry cake, and coarse granulated sugar a very 
coarse-grained cake. 

If cream-of-tartar and soda can be accurately measured, these 
will, in general, give more perfect results than baking-powder. 
The novice, however, wUl succeed better with the baking-powder. 
A pound cake is usually improved by the addition of a small 
quantity of baking-powder. Lemon juice and soda produce a cake 
of fine, close texture, but these are not adapted to lightening plain 
cakes. 

LINING THE PANS 

A light-weight wrapping paper is best adapted to this purpose. 
To line a rectangular pan, invert, spread paper upon the bottom, 
having one side even with one of the longer edges of the bottom, 



MIXING SPONGE CAKE 391 

crease the paper upon the opposite edge, fold in the crease, and, 
with a sharp knife, cut at the fold. Put in the pan, press down 
smoothly, letting the ends hang over the ends of the pan. Have 
ready a dish of clarified butter (melt the butter, and let stand a 
few moments to "settle," then skim off the top, leaving the salt 
and sediment in the bottom), and with butter brush spread the 
unpapered sides of the tin and the paper Avith butter. Patented 
tins, from which cake can be easily removed, do not need lining. 
Tins may also be buttered thoroughly, and, just before the cake 
is placed in them, sprinkled with flour. After sprinkling with flour, 
invert and give the tin a siiarp rap to remove superfluous flour. 

FILLING THE PANS 

That the cake, when baked, may fill the pan, let the uncooked 
mixture fill two thirds of the space. Always draw the mixture 
away from the centre toward the comers or edges, and, when baked, 
other conditions being favorable, the top wiU be level. 

CAKE WITH YEAST 

In mixing cakes lightened with yeast observe the same points 
considered essential to success in bread making. On account of 
the tendency of sugar, butter, and eggs to retard fermentation, it 
is advisable to add these either to a light sponge or to a light bread 
dough. Explicit directions will be given under the several recipes. 

MIXING SPONGE CAKE 

As the lightness of sponge cake depends entirely upon the air 
incorporated into the eggs, of which it is largely composed, and 
the expansion of this air in baking, great care must be taken first, 
to secure the incorporation of air in the mixture, and then to reg- 
ulate the baking so as to retain the same — i.e., never stir a sponge 
cake mixture; let the heat be such that the enclosed air can be 
gradually heated, and the cell walls fixed when the air becomes 
fully expanded. Beat the yolks with an egg beater until very light 
and thick; add the sugar gradually, beating continuously, then add 
the flavoring. Beat 3ie whites until stiff and dry; cut and fold part 
of the whites into the yolks and sugar, then cut and fold in part of 
the flour; now, in the same order, the remaining whites and flour. 
If preferred, add the whites, then the flour entire. Bake in m 



392 PRACTICAL COOKING AND SERVING 

unbuttered pan, made for the purpose, and let the cake stand in 
the inverted pan to cool. Thus suspended, as it were, from the 
floor of the pan, the cake will be much lighter, than when it is left 
to hold up its own weight while cooling. 

MIXING BUTTER CAKES 

Cream the butter, using an earthen bowl and a wooden spoon 
to avoid discoloring the ingredients; add the sugar gradually, beat- 
ing constantly; add yolks of eggs beaten until thick and light 
colored. If more sugar is to be used than can be creamed easily 
with the butter, add it to the yolks and with them to the rest of the 
sugar and butter; then add the liquid, followed by the flour and 
leavening ingredients sifted together, or add the liquid and flour 
alternately. Beat the mixture thoroughly to secure a fine grain 
then beat in, lightly, the ^yhites of the eggs beaten dry. 

BAKING 

Cakes are baked in from fifteen minutes to three or four hours. 
The heat of the oven should be moderate at first, that the mixture, 
being evenly heated, may rise throughout. If the oven be too hot 
at first, the cake will crust or brown over before it becomes suffi- 
ciently light; then the mixture in rising will break through the 
weakest place (usually the centre) and run over the surface. Mrs. 
Lincoln gives the following excellent directions for baking cake: 
"Divide the time required into quarters. During the first quarter 
the heating is not manifested in appearance except by the rising; 
dming the second the cake should continue to rise, and begin to 
brown; then it should become all over a rich golden brown, and, in 
the last quarter, settle a little, brown in the cracks, and shrink from 
the pan." 

Sometimes, especially in the oven of a coal or wood range, it 
seems necessary to move a cake. In the "first quarter," or early 
in the second, it may be moved very gently; after this screen with 
tin baking sheets or paper; for, when a cake has reached its full 
height, and the cells have not become fixed by the heat, the slight 
jar of moving breaks down the cells, and no carbon dioxide remains 
by which other cells may be evolved, and the cake is "heavy." If 
desired, the oven door may be opened a reasonable number of times, 
providing it be done without jarring the cake. 

Cakes, with the exception, perhaps, of pound cake, are fully 



COFFEE ROLLS FROM BRIOCHE 393 

baked when they shrink from the pan, and settle to a level. All 
cakes are well done, when they make only a slight singing noise, 
or when the surface rebounds at once on being pressed with the 
finger. 

BRIOCHE 

I pound of flour (4 cups). 8 ounces of buttei (i cup). 

i teaspoonful of salt. 7 eggs. 

I tablespoonful of sugar. i cake of compressed yeast. 

J cup of warm water. 

Soften the yeast cake in the water and stir in flour to make a 
stiff dough; knead thoroughly, then drop into a small saucepan 
of warm water and let stand in a temperature of 70° Fahr. imtil 
doubled in bulk. Put the rest of the pound of flour into a mixing 
bowl, add the salt, sugar, the butter, softened, but not melted 
and four of the eggs. Mix to a paste, then beat thoroughly with 
the hand, adding eggs, one at a time, until seven in all have been 
used ; beat vintil smooth. When the ball of sponge is light (in fifteen 
to thirty minutes), remove from the water with a skimmer, and 
place in the centre of the egg mixture, fold the egg mixture over the 
sponge and continuing the folding until the two are thoroughly 
blended; set aside in a temperature not higher than 70° Fahr. until 
doubled in bulk. 

Set aside in the coolest part of the refrigerator over night, after 
which it may be shaped into a vol-au-vent, rolls, etc. Milk scalded 
and cooled may replace the water, and two yolks may be used in 
the place of a whole egg, if four of the eggs be whole eggs. That 
is, six yolks may replace three of the seven eggs. 

COFFEE ROLLS FROM BRIOCHE 

Roll chilled brioche into a sheet about one fourth an inch thick 
(a marble slab or a magic cover is an aid), brush over very lightly 
with softened butter, lien fold from the sides toward the centre, 
so as to make three layers. Cut strips three fourths an inch wide; 
take each separately, and twist from the ends in opposite direc- 
tions, and with each form a drcle on the baking sheet, but, instead 
of having the ends meet, bring them side by side up to the centre 
of the curve. Arrange the rolls close together in the baking pan, 
and brush over with yolk of egg, beaten and dfluted with milk; 
let rise, and bake about twenty-five minutes in a moderate oven; 
let cool, then brush over with confectioner's sugar, moistened with 
boUing water to spread. 



394 PRACTICAL COOKING AND SERVING 



BRIOCHE BUNS 

Shape the chilled brioche into balls the size of an egg; put them 
close together in a buttered pan, and press into the top of each a 
slice of citron or a seeded raisin. When risen a little more than 
double in bulk, brush over with sugar dissolved in a little milk and 
bake about twenty-five minutes in a moderate oven. Brush over 
a second time with sugar and milk and sprinkle with loaf sugar 
pounded into small bits; let stand in the oven imtil well glazed. 

BRIOCHE WITH HEAD 

Divide the chilled brioche into two pieces, one a fourth as large 
as the other. Shape the larger piece into a roimd, and, with the 
rolling pin, flatten evenly to fit the baking pan (a round sponge- 
cake pan). Make an open place in the centre, and gash the dough 
in four or five places on the inner edge, after placing it in the but- 
tered pan; form the small piece into a ball, then, with the floured 
hand, roll on the board, giving it the shape of a pear; set the 
pointed end in the centre of the pan, and brush over the whole 
with yolk of egg beaten with a little milk; when light bake about 
fifty minutes in a slow oven; then brush over with sugar dissolved 
in a little milk. Serve, hot or cold, with coffee for breakfast. Break 
in portions with the fingers or a silver fork. Or serve hot with a 
rich syrup flavored with rum or wine, or with a fruit compote, for 
the sweet dish at luncheon or dinner. 

BRIOCHES ST. MARK 

Fill twelve well-buttered individual timbale moulds two thirds 
full with brioche paste. When risen nearly to fill the moulds, 
bake in a slow oven. Remove from the moulds, and, when cold, 
trim uniformly to size of the moulds, and remove the centre of 
each, leaving a thin shell. Pour over the inside a highly flavored 
syrup; drain, and fill with whipped cream or a custard filling; brush 
over the outside with apricot marmalade, and strew with pista- 
chios and almonds, blanched and chopped fine. Ornament the top 
of each timbale with a rosette formed of a split cherry siu'rounded 
by halves of pistachios. Dress these on a plate in a circle, filling 
the centre of the circle with halved peaches cooked in syrup. Serve 
with or without whipped cream or a custard sauce. 



SAVARIN 39S 

BABA WITH FRUIT 

I pound of flour (4 cups). i cake of compressed yeast. 

10 ounces of butter (li cups). J cup of scalded milk. 

I tablespoonful of granulated sugar. 8 eggs. 

J teaspoonful of salt. i cup of fruit. 

Make a sponge of the yeast, milk and a little of the ilour and set 
aside to become light. Put the rest of the flour into a mixing bowl, 
add the butter, softened, but not melted, sugar, salt, and three 
eggs, and work the whole together until smooth, then add the rest 
of the eggs, one at a time, and continue beating until all are added 
and the mixture is very smooth. When the sponge is light, add to 
the egg mixture, beating (not folding as in brioche) until again 
smooth; then add the fruit, sultanas or seeded raisins cut in small 
pieces, citron, candied cherries or other fruit, cut in bits, or cleaned 
currants. Butter a baba mould and half fill with the mixture. 
Let rise nearly to the top of the mould, then bake from forty to 
fifty minutes. Turn from mould, pour on hot rum sauce, baste 
with the sauce until all is absorbed. For Rum Sauce see page 512. 

APRICOT SAUCE 

Boil one cup of sugar, half a cup of water, half a cup of apricot 
jam, and the juice of one lemon five minutes, strain, and use in 
place of rum sauce. 

SAVARIN (MODIFIED BABA) 

I pound of flour. 5 eggs. 

I cake of compressed yeast. f cup of scalded milk, 

i cup of scalded milk. J pound of butter. 

T teaspoonful of salt. 2 ounces of candied orange peel, 

I tablespoonful of sugar. cut fine. 

Make a sponge of the milk, the yeast, and a little flour, and 
when light add the rest of the milk, two eggs, salt, butter, and the 
rest of the flour; beat with a perforated spoon until light, then add 
the rest of the eggs, one at a time, and beat until very smooth ; add 
the orange peel meanwhile. Butter a fluted cylinder mould, 
sprinkle with chopped almonds, and half fill with the paste. When 
the paste has risen to the top of the mould, bake in a moderate 
oven. When baked turn from the mould, let cool twenty minutes. 



396 



PRACTICAL COOKING AND SERVING 



then pour over a rich syrup, flavored to taste, and serve as a 
luncheon or dinner sweet. 

BATH BUNS 



I pound of flour (4 cups). 
I cake of compressed yeast. 
J cup of lukewarm milk or water. 
i cup of sugar. 



I cup of softened butter. 
i teaspoonful of salt. 
Grating of lemon rind. 
4 eggs. 



Soften the yeast in the liquid and add flour to make a sponge; 
when light add the other ingredients, mix thoroughly, and knead 
half an hour, adding more flour if needed, but keeping the mixture 
quite soft. When risen to double in bulk, shape into balls and finish 
as brioche buns. 

THANKSQIVING CAKE (COLONIAL) 



2 cups of bread dough. 

1 cup of butter. 

2 cups of sugar, 
z eggs. 

i teaspoonful of cloves. 



§ teaspoonful of cinnamon. 
I teaspoonful of mace, 
i teaspoonful of nutmeg. 
I cup of seeded raisins, 
i cup of sliced dtron. 



Take the dough, when it is ready for shaping into loaves, add 
the other ingredients and mix and beat with the hand or hands as 
in making brioche. The beating is not done with the side of the 
hand, but with the tips of the fingers and directly toward the body. 
Turn into a tube cake pan, and when light (it should not quite 
double in bulk) bake in an oven at a temperature a Uttle lower 
than for bread. When cold pour a maple-sugar frosting over the 
cake, and decorate with pecan or hickory nuts and ornamental 
frosting. This cake is particularly good made of entire wheat 
bread dough. 



HARTFORD ELECTION CAKE (RECIPE 100 YEARS OLD) 



5 pounds of dried and gifted flour. 
2 poimds of butter. 

2 pounds of sugar. 

3 gills of distillery yeast, or twice the 

quantity of home-made yeast. 



Four eggs. 

A gill of wine and a gill of bttmdy. 

Half an ounce of nutmegs, and two 

poimds of fruit. 
A quart of milk. 




ENTIRE WHEAT BREAD. (Seu page 368-) 




UTENSILS FOR BREAD-MAKINrT, (Sec page 364.) 




BRG"",- 



- .'f f - - ' '■, 



YEAST DOUGHNUTS 397 

Rub the butter very fine into the flour; add half the sugar, then 
yeast, then half the nulk, scalded and cooled to lukewarm, then the 
eggs well beaten, the wine and the remainder of the milk. Beat 
well in the morning, adding the brandy, the sugar and the spice. 
Let rise three or four hours, till very light. When the wood is 
put into the oven, put the cake in buttered pans, also the frmt, as 
directed previously. If a richer cake is wanted, add a pound of 
citron. 

GERMAN APPLE CAKE 

Roll a small piece of dough made as for zweiback (seepage 373), 
half an inch thick, and fit into a shallow rectangular pan. Lay 
on this apples or peaches peeled, cored and cut in eighths, and 
bestrew with sugar mixed with cinnamon. Let rise and bake in a 
quick oven. Serve at breakfast or luncheon with sugar and cream 
or butter. Rub over the fruit with the cut side of a lemon to avoid 
discoloring, or wait until the dough is light before putting the fruit 
in place. 

BERLIN PANCAKES 

Shape zweiback dough into balls, flatten the balls, and put a 
spoonful of jam into the centre of each; bring up the edges and 
pinch together, forming a ball again. Lay on a flomred board 
smooth side up and let rise until nearly doubled in size, then frj' 
in hot fat, drain and dust with sugar and cinnamon mixed. Serve 
with coffee at breakfast, or cocoa at luncheon. 

RAISED DOUGHNUTS. (MRS. McELAVEY) 

3 cups of bread dough. 2 eggs. 

J cup of butter. i teaspoonful of cinnamon or nut- 

I cup of sugar. meg. 

To the dough ready for shaping in loaves add the other in- 
gredients and mix thoroughly wiUi the hand. Let rise until doubled 
in bulk, then roU into a thin sheet and cut into rings. Let 
stand until doubled in bulk, then fry in deep fat (see page 13). 
Drain on soft paper, and roll in sifted, powdered sugar. 

YEAST DOUGHNUTS 

About seven o'clock in the morning crumble one or two yeast 
cakes into a cup of scalded-and-cooled milk; mix thoroughly, then 
beat in about one cup and a fourth of bread flour. Beat 'intil 



398 PRACTICAL COOKING AND SERVING 

smooth, cover and set aside until well-pu£fed up and full of bubbles 
(about one hour). Add two eggs, half a cup of sugar, one third 
cup of melted butter, half a teaspoonful, each, of salt and ground 
mace, and flour enough for a soft dough. Nearly four cups of 
flour (in sponge and dough) will be needed. Knead the dough 
until smooth and elastic, cover and let stand until doubled in bulk. 
The time of rising will vary, but probably by eleven o'clock, at the 
latest, the dough will be ready to turn upon a floured board. Pat 
the dough into a sheet about three fourths an inch thick. Cut in 
strips three fourths an inch wide, twist and lengthen these, then 
shape like the letter eight. Let stand on the board, closely covered, 
until light throughout. Fry in deep fat, dredge with confec- 
tioner's sugar. 

RECIPES FOR SPONGE OR SAVOY CAKE (BISCUIT 
DE SAVOIE) 

GENERAL FORMULA FOR SPONQE CAKE 

The weight of the eggs in sugar and half the weight in flour is 
the usual formula for the ordinary sponge loaf. In small cakes 
the number of eggs may be increased to twelve, sixteen or even 
twenty, to a pound of sugar and half a pound of flour. The grated 
rind and juice of one lemon complete the list of ingredients used to 
a pound of sugar. The Portuguese apply the name pan d'our 
(golden bread) to the sponge cake, in the making of which they are 
said to excel. In serving sponge Cake, cut through the outer 
crust only, then break apart with the fingers or a fork. When well 
baked, sponge cake is never dark in color. 

SPONQE CAKE (RECIPE USED IN ONE FAMILY FOR 
THREE GENERATIONS) 

Take the weight of eight eggs in sugar, one half the weight of the 
eggs in flour, sifting the flour several times before weigMng. Set 
the sugar and flour near the fire to keep warm. Beat the yolks 
of the eggs twenty-five minutes, then beat the whites tmtil they 
are perfectly stiff; add the sugar to the yolks, beating, not stirring 
in, then add the whites, and, lastly, sift in the flour. Add the 
juice of one lemon and bake in a good oven twenty-five minutes. 
To adapt to the present time, use an egg-beater, and thus shorten 
the time of beating, and add the lemon juice to the yolks and sugar. 



SUNSHINE CAKE 399 

SPONGE CAKE (MEASURE BY CUPS) 

5 eggs (i cup of eggs when broken). Grated rind and juice of half a lemon. 
1 cup of sugar. i cup of flour. 

See Mixing Sponge Cake, page 391. 

IDEAL SPONGE CAKE. (ELEANOR S. McKENZIE) 

4 eggs. Grated rind of half a lemon or 
i teaspoonful of salt. orange. 

I cup of fine granulated sugar. 1 tablespoonful of orange or lemon 
i cup of flour. juice. 

Beat the whites of the eggs with salt until dry, then beat in 
gradually one half the sugar. Beat the yolks the same length of 
time as the whites (by the clock), then gradually beat in the other 
half cup of sugar; add the grated rind and juice, then beat the two 
together. Now sprinkle the flour in, little by little, folding it imder 
with a perforated spoon. Do not beat after any of the flour is 
added. Bake from twenty to forty minutes, according to the 
shape of the pan. 

"BOILED" SPONGE CAKE 

I cup of sugar. The grated rind and juice of half a 

I cup of water. lemon. 

The yolks of five eggs. i cup of flour. 

The whites of five eggs. 

Boil the sugar and water to the thread stage, and pour in a fine 
stream on to the yolks of the eggs, beaten until thick and lemon- 
colored, beating constantly some time, then set dish into cold 
water, and continue beating imtil the mixture is cold, adding while 
beating the lemon juice and rind. When cold fold in half the whites 
of eggs, beaten dry, and the flour, then the rest of the egg whites. 
Bake in a tube pan about fifty minutes, and let cool in the inverted 
pan. This is, in reality, the same cake as the "sponge cake (meas- 
ure by cups)," the water with which the sugar is boiled being lost 
in the boUing process. 

SUNSHINE CAKE 

The whites of seven eggs. i cup of sugar (fine granulated). 

The yolks of five eggs. i teaspoonful of orange extract. 

J a teaspoonful of cream-of-tartar. f cup of flour. 



40O PRACTICAL COOKING AND SERVING 

Beat the yolks of the eggs until light colored and thick; beat 
the whites until foamy, add the cream-of-tartar and beat until diy; 
beat the sugar into the whites, then beat in the yolks; add the 
extract and fold in the flour. Bake in an unbuttered tube pan 
from thirty-five to fifty minutes. 

ANGEL CAKE 

1 cup of whites of eggs i cup of flour. 

(about lo eggs). J teaspoonful of cream-of-tartar. 

I cup of sugar. i teaspoonful of vanilla extract. 

Beat the whites of the eggs tmtil foamy; add the cream-of-tartar 
and beat imtil dry; beat in the sugar gradually, using a cake spoon, 
add the extract, then fold in the flour; bake in a tube pan, imbut- 
tered, with a stronger heat than for yellow sponge cake. Thirty 
to fifty minutes will be needed, according to the depth of the pan. 

COCOANUT CAKE. (MRS. MATTHEWS, OHIO) 

WUteE of eight eggs. li cups of flour. 

i} cups of sugar. i teaspoonful of cream-of-tartar. 

§ teaspoonful of salt. 

Mix as an angel cake. Bake in layers. Make a frosting with 
the whites of five eggs, and two level tablespoonfuls of sugar for 
each egg. Put fresh grated cocoanut between the layers and over 
the outside. For frosting, beat the whites dry, then beat m sugar. 

CHOCOLATE SPONGE CAKE 

Add to the beaten eggs and sugar of a sponge-cake mixtiure made 
with yolks of eggs two tablespoonfuls of grated chocolate, melted 
over hbt water, and finish as any sponge cake. Use half a tea- 
spoonful of cream-of-tartar with the whites of the eggs and flavor 
with vanilla. 

MOCHA CAKE 

Bake a sponge-cake mixture in two round layer cake pans. Pre- 
pare a mocha cream and spread smoothly between the layers and 
upon the outside of the cake. Score the cake in pieces for serving. 
Pipe with the remainder of the cream (see Butter Icing, Chapter 

xvn). 



FINGER BISCUIT WITH PISTACHIOS 401 

LADY-FINQERS (NAPLES BISCUIT) 

6 eggs. I cup of flour, 

li cups of powdered sugar. A grating of lemon or orange rind. 

The juice of half a lemon. 

Mix according to formula. Press the mixture through a tube 
on to a baking sheet, covered with paper, in portions an inch wide 
and five inches long. Dust with powdered sugar, and bake from 
ten to fifteen minutes, without browning. Remove from the paper, 
brush over the flat surface of one biscuit with white of egg, and 
press the underside of a second biscuit upon the first. 

LADY FINGERS (QOUFFE) 

6 eggs. li cups of flour. 

I cup of sugar. Flavoring. 

MOCHA CAKES 

Bake a sponge cake in a sheet. When baked it should be nearly 
an inch in thickness. Cut the cake in small roimds, spread the 
sides lightly with mocha cream, then roll in chopped nuts. Cocoa- 
nut, pecan nuts or walnuts may be used. With pastry bag and 
star tube pipe mocha cream round and round over the top of the 
cake. Finish with a maraschino cherry in the centre. 

AFRICANS, OR OTHELLOS 

Press the lady-finger mixture on to the paper in rounds an inch 
and a half in cfiameter. When baked, spread the flat surface of 
half the biscuits with jam or jelly and cover with the remaining 
biscuits. Dip in chocolate fondant, or frosting, and dry on oiled 
paper. 

FINGER BISCUIT WITH PISTACHIOS 

Press the biscuit paste on to the paper in oval-shaped strips, 
one and three fourth inches long by three fourths inch wide, 
dust with fine granulated sugar, and when baked cover the tops 
with Italian meringue (boiled frosting), and sprinkle with chopped 
pistachios. Or strew the biscuits before baking with fine-chopped 
almonds mixed with sugar, and the Italian meringue may be 
omitted. 



402 PRACTICAL COOKING AND SERVING 



SWEDISH MERINGUE 

The whites of five eggs. h cup of flour. 

I teaspoonful of cream-of-tartar. j teaspoonful of vanilla 

f cup of sugar (scant). extract. 

Prepare as angel cake, bake in two shallow pans; when cooled, 
put together witfi the following filling and decorate with candied 
fruit: 

FILLING 

1 pint of milk. A few grains of salt. 

2 tablespoonfuls of flour. i cup of shredded cocoanut. 

3 yolks of eggs. Juice of I lemon. 

i cup of sugar. Grated rind of half an orange. 

Stir the flour and salt with milk to pour and cook in the milk 
scalded over hot water; let cook ten minutes, then add the yolks 
beaten with the sugar and the orange rind; stir until the egg is 
slightly cooked, then remove, add the cocoanut and, when cold, 
the lemon juice. 

SPONGE CAKE WITH COLD WATER 

6 eggs. I cup (less 2 tablespoonfuls) of cold 

3 cups of sugar. water. 

The grated rind and juice of half 3 cups of flour. 

a lemon. ' i teaspoonful of soda. 

3i teaspoonfuls (level) of cream-of-tartar. 

Beat the eggs, without separating, until very thick, add the 
sugar gradually, beating all the time, then the grated rind, juice, 
and water, alternately, with the flour, cream-of-tartar, and soda. 
Bake in two long narrow sponge-cake pans. 

ORANGE CAKE. (MRS. ELLIOT RUSSEL, BOSTON) 

The yolks of five eggs. 2 cups of powdered sugar. 

The whites of four eggs. J teaspoonful of soda. 

a cups of flour. 2 teaspoonfuls of cream-of-tartar. 

Beat the yolks until light colored and thick; add the sugar 
gradually, then the whites of the eggs and the flour sifted with the 
soda and cream-of-tartar. Bake in two pans ii^xyf inches. 
Finish with Royal icing made with orange juice. (Page 425.) 
Or use water icing. 



WHITE FRUIT CAKE 403 

SWEDISH SPONQE CAKE 

S eggs. J cup of potato flour. 

I cup of sugar. 2 teaspoonfuls of lemon extract or 

I tcaspoonful of salt. grated rind and juice of J lemon. 

Beat the whites and yolks of the eggs separately. Beat the 
sugar into the yolks, add the flour sifted with the salt, then the 
extract and egg whites. Bake about forty minutes. This makes 
a very tender sponge cake. 

RECIPES FOR CAKE MADE WITH BUTTER 

Prepare in the usual manner. (See Mixing Butter Cakes, 
page 392.) 

POUND CAKE 

i| pounds of butter. 2 level teaspoonfuls of baking- 

i| pounds of sugar. powder. 

10 eggs. I cup of milk (scant). 

i| pounds of flour. Sliced citron. 

POUND CAKE BY MEASURE. (ANN FLEURY. STOCKBRIDQE. 
COOK IN SAME FAMILY 25 YEARS) 

1 cup of butter. 4 eggs. 

ij cups of sugar (powdered). § cup of milk. 

2 cups of flour. I level teaspoonful of baking-powder. 

BELL'S PRIZE POUND CAKE 

f cup of butter. i level teaspoonful of baking- 

I cup of sugar. powder. 

4 yolks of eggs. i tablespoonful of milk. 

i§ cups of flour. 4 whites of eggs. 

WHITE FRUIT CAKE 

i cup of butter. i teaspoonful of baking-powder. 

1 cup of sugar. } teaspoonful of almond ex- 
The whites of five eggs. tract. 

if cups of flour. i pound of blanched ahnonds. 

2 pound of cocoanut. f pound of citron. 

Bake in a loaf and cover with a boiled icing. Mix, as usual, add- 
ing the fruit last. Fresh cocoanut, grated, is best. 



404 PRACTICAL COOKING AND SERVING 

FRUIT CAKE. (AUNT REBECCA) 

2 pound of butter. I cup of molaseee. 

I pound of sugar. li teaspoonfuls of cinnamon, 
f pound of flour. i teaspoonful of mace. 

6 eggs. I teaspoonful of cloves. 

I I pounds of raisins. i teaspoonful of nutmeg, 
li pounds of currants. i teaspoonful of soda. 

1 pound of citron. J cup of milk or cold coffee. 

LOAF CAKE. (MISS MINNA TRAIN, BOSTON) 

1 cup of butter. i cup of cold water. 

2 cups of sugar. i| cups of chopped raisins. 

3 cups of flour. 2 level teaspoonfuls of baking- 

4 eggs. powder. 

i| teaspoonfuls of cinnamon. i nutmeg, grated. 

ENTIRE WHEAT FRUIT CAKE. (CHARLOTTE J. WILLS 
BOSTON) 

i cup of butter. J cup of pastry flour. 

I J cups of sugar. a cups of entire wheat flour. 

I cup of seeded raisins. i teaspoonful of soda. 

I egg beaten without separating. i^ teaspoonfuls of mixed spices. 
I cup of sour milk. 

Add tlie raisins (currants or nuts may be substituted) to the 
butter and sugar creamed together, then the egg and, alternately, 
the floiu: sifted with the soda and spices and the sour milk. Turn 
the mixture into small tins — it will take eighteen — and dredge 
the tops with granulated sugar. Bake about twenty-five minutes. 

WEDDING CAKE (10 POUNDS) 

I pound of butter. i teaspoonful of soda. 

I potmd of sugar. | teaspoonful of cloves. 

I pound of flour. i teaspoonful of cinnamon. 

12 eggs. J teaspoonful of mace. 

2} pounds of currants. i pound candied peel, chopped. 

2i pound of raisins. J pound blanched almonds, chopped. 

J pound of citron. i nutmeg. 

Bake in two loaves, two and a half hours. 




TWIN MOUNTAIN MUFFINS. (See page 382.) 




MUFFINS AND WAFFLES, WITH UTENSILS. (See pages 382 and 385.) 



LINCOLN CAKE 405 

IMPERIAL CAKE 

i pound of butter (i cup). | pound of raisins. 

i pound of sugar (i cup). i cup of walnut meats. 

The grated rind and juice of half ^ pound of flour. 

a lemon. i teaspoonful of soda. 

J cup of dtron. S eggs. 

Add the whites of the eggs, beaten stifiE, before the flour, on ac- 
count of the absence of liquid to moisten. Reserve a little of the 
flour for dredging the fruit. Seed the raisins, cut the citron fine 
and chop the nuts, and add the soda with the flour. Bake in a 
tube pan nearly an hour and a half. 

FRUIT CAKE. (MRS. WM. B. SEWALL) 

I pound of moist brown sugar. i teaspoonful of allspice. 

I poimd of butter (scant). i teaspoonful of nutmeg. 

8 eggs. 2 pounds of raisins. 

I pound of flour. 2 pounds of currants. 

1 cup of molasses. J pound of citron. 

2 teaspoonfuls of cinnamon. i level teaspoonful of soda. 
I teaspoonful of doves. i sherry glass of brandy. 

2 glasses of sherry. 

Mix as usual; at the last sift the soda into the molasses heated 
over the fire, and while foaming stir into the other ingredients. 
Bake in two bread pans between three and four hours. 

LINCOLN CAKE. (JOSEPHINE J. KIMBALL, CANTON, OHIO) 

I pound of butter. i pound of raisins. 

I J pounds of brown sugar. i pound of currants, 

ij pounds of flour. -J pound of dtron. 

I pint of sweet milk. j pound of blanched almonds. 

I dessertspoonful of soda. i nutmeg. 

6 eggs. I teaspoonful of cloves. 
I tablespoonful of cinnamon. 

Mix in the usual manner. The baking is simplified and shortened 
by using two pans. This cake was a great favorite in Canton in 
1861 and the years immediately following. * 



4o6 PRACTICAL COOKING AND SERVING 

HICKORY NUT CAKE. (MRS. WM. B. SEWALL, BOSTON) 

i§ cups of sugar. 2 cups of flour, 

i cup of butter. 2 teaspoonfuls of baking-powde 

J cup of milk. The whites of four eggs. 

I cup of chopped nut meats. 

Mix in the usual manner, reserving part of the nuts to sprinkle 
on the top of the cake when it is in the pan. Bake in a loaf in a 
moderate oven about an hour. 



NUT AND RAISIN CAKE. (MARIA W. HOWARD, BOSTON) 

i cup of butter. 2I tea^oonfuls of baking-powder. 

1 cup of sugar. 2 squares of melted chocolate. 

i cup of seeded and chopped raisins. § cup of walnut meats cut in small 

2 eggs. pieces. 

i cup of milk. i teaspoonful of salt. 

li cups of flour. § teaspoonful of vanilla extract. 

Add the chopped raisins to the butter and sugar, creamed as 
usual, and the melted chocolate and nut meats at the last. Bake 
about three fourths hour. Frost with boiled icing and decorate 
with nuts and raisins. 



WHITE CAKE, (MRS. HENDERSON) 

1 cup of butter. ij cups of fine granulated sugar. 

2 cups of flour. The grated rind and juice of half a 
The whites of six eggs. lemon. 

i teaspoonful of soda. 

Beat the butter to a cream; add gradually the flour into which 
the soda has been sifted and beat to a smooth paste. Beat the 
whites of the eggs dry, using a whisk so as to make them as light 
as possible; whisk in the sugar (powdered sugar is designated by 
Mrs. Henderson, but fine granulated gives much better results), 
then combine the two mixtures by beating the sugar and egg very 
gradually into the butter and flour. Add the lemon juice last and 
beat until smooth. Put into an oven of very moderate heat. Bake 
half an hour or longer, according to the shape of the pan. Cover 
with an icing flavored with lemon. 



DEVIL'S FOOD 407 

NEWPORT CAKE 

Beat one cup of butter to a cream and gradually beat into it one 
cup and a half of sifted flour, sifted again with a level teaspoonful 
of. baking-powder. Beat the yolks of five eggs until lemon colored 
and thick, then gradually beat into them one cup and a half of 
sifted powdered sugar. Now gradually beat the yolk and sugar 
mixture into the butter and flour mixture. Lastly, beat in the 
whites of five eggs, beaten dry, and one tablespoonful of brandy. 
Bake, in a loaf, one hour; in a sheet, about forty-five minutes. The 
heat of the oven should be moderate, especially when the cake is 
first put into it. The cake is very fine-grained, tender and delicate. 

LADY BALTIMORE CAKE 

For the cake, take one cup of butter, two cups of granulated 
sugar, three and one half cups of sifted flour, two level teaspoonfuls 
of baking-powder, one cup of milk, one teaspoonful of rose water 
and the whites of six eggs. For the frosting, take three cups of 
granulated sugar, one cup of boiling water, the whites of three eggs, 
one cup of chopped raisins, one cup of chopped nut meats and five 
figs, cut into bits. Mix the cake in the usual manner; the ingre- 
dients are enumerated in order. For the frosting, cook the sugar 
and water until when tested the s)mip will spin a thread two inches 
long; pour in a fine stream on to the whites of the eggs beaten dry; 
Md the fruit and use when cold as filling and frosting. 

DEVIL'S FOOD 

J cup of butter. 2J cups of flour. 

2 cups of sugar. i teaspoonful of cinnamon. 

4 eggs. 4 teaspoonfuls of baking-powder. 

I cup of milk. I teaspoonful of vanilla extract. 

§ cup of grated chocolate (2 oz.). 

Cream the butter with one cup of the sugar; add the other cup 
of sugar to the beaten yolks and combine the two; add the milk 
alternately with the flour, sifted with the cinnamon and baking- 
powder, then the vanilla, the whites of the eggs beaten dry, and 
lastly the melted chocolate. Bake in a tube pan or in layers. Put 
together and ice with boUed frosting, to wmch candied fruit, cut 
fine, has been added; or v§e a marshmallow icing. Or, bake in a 



4o8 PRACTICAL COOKING AND SERVING 

sheet, ice with boiled frosting and spread one fourth pound of 
"Dot" chocolate, melted, over the icing. (See illustration.) 

ELEGANT CAKE 

1 cup of butter. 3i cups of flour. 

2 cups of sugar. 4 teaspoonfuls of baking-powder. 
i cup of milk. The whites of seven eggs . 

Bake in layers or in one sheet. Ice as desired. 

PLAIN CAKE 

i cup of butter. J cup of milk. 

1 cup of sugar. i teaspoonful of soda. 

2 eggs. 2 teaspoonfuls of cream-of-tartar. 

ij cups of flour. 

Bake in layers; put together with a filling and ice the top. Fig, 
date, lemon or orange filling is suitable. Serve freshly made. 

ICE CREAM CAKE, NO. 1 (BOSTON CATERER) 

I cup of butter. i poimd of flour (4 cups). 

1} cups of sugar. i teaspoonful of soda. 

I cup of eggs. 3 teaspoonfuls of cream-of-tartar. 

I cup of milk. i teaspoonful of mace. 

I teaspoonful of vanilla. 

Cream the butter; add the sugar gradually, the eggs, two at a 
time, tmbeaten, and beat each time until very light, then add the 
milk alteiaiately with the flour, mace, and leavening agents; add 
the vanilla last. Bake in a tube pan; ice as desired. 

LEMON CAKE 

I cup of butter. i teaspoonful of soda (scant). 

3 cups of sugar. The whites of five eggs. 

5 yolks of eggs. The grated rind and juice of one 

I cup of milk. lemon. 

4 cups of flour. 4 tablespoonf uls of lemon juice. 

Follow the directions for mixing cakes with butter, adding the 
lemon juice last. Bake in two loaves about an hour. The heat 



ICE CREAM CAKE NO. 2 409 

of the oven should be very moderate at first. A Turk's head pan 
gives good results. Cover with icing flavored with lemon rind and 
juice. The cake is at its best after being kept two or three days. 

FRUIT CAKE. (DR. C. F. LANGWORTHY) 

X pound of butter. i cup of brandy or whiskey. 

I pound of brown sugar. 12 whites of eggs. 

12 yolks of eggs.* 6 pounds of seeded raisins. 

I pound of flour. 3 pounds of currants. 

1 teaspoonfuls of baking-powder. 2 pounds of citron. 

2 teaspoonfuls of cinnamon. 2 poimds of candied cherries. 

1 teaspoonful of cloves. 2 pounds of candied apricots. 

2 nutmegs, grated. 2 pounds of pineapple. 

Steam five hours, then bake one hour in a very slow oven. Leave 
cherries whole, cut citron, apricots and pineapple in large pieces. 

ROCHESTER GINGERBREAD 

i cup of butter. i cup of molasses. 

i cup of sugar. 3 cups of flour. 

2 eggs. 1 1 teaspoonfuls of soda. 

I cup of thick sour milk. i teaspoonful of ginger. 

1 teaspoonful of cinnamon. 

Bake in two brick-loaf pans, or in one shallow pan. 

NEW YORK GINGERBREAD. (MRS. THOMPSON) 

i cup of butter. I cup of milk. 

1 cup of sugar. 2 cups of flour. 

2 eggs. 3 tablespoonfuls of yellow ginger. 
i cup of molasses. i teaspoonful of soda. 

Mix in the usual manner and bake in a loaf. 

ICE CREAM CAKE, NO. 2 

1 cup of butter. 3 cups of flour. 

2 cups of sugar. 6 teaspoonfuls of baking-powder. 
I cup of milk. The whites of five eggs. 

Follow the directions for mixing butter cakes. Bake in two thin 
sheets. Spread "ice cream filling" between the layers, also upon. 



4IO PRACTICAL COOKING AND SERVING 

the top and sides. Or use a White Mountain cream, made of two 
cups of sugar, half a cup of water, and the whites of three eggs, 
adding bits of cherries, angeKca, pineapple, etc., to the filling. 

DELICATE CAKE 

f cup of butter. 3 cups of flour. 

2 cups of sugar. 2 teaspoonfuls of baking-powder, 

i cup of milk. The whites of six eggs. 

I teaspoonful of almond extract. 

Mix in the usual manner and bake in a loaf (tube pan) or layers. 
GOLDEN CAKE 

1 cup of butter. | cup of milk. 

I cup of sugar. if cups of flour. 

The yolks of eight eggs. 4 teaspoonfuls of baking-powder. 

I teaspoonful of' orange extract. 

Bake in tube pan, cover with plain icing, or with ice cream filling, 
into which fresh or dried cocoanut has been stirred. 

LORD BALTIMORE CAKE 

Bake the recipe for Golden Cake in three layers. Put together 
and cover with the following mixture: Boil one and one half cups 
of sugar and half cup of water to 238° F., and pour in a fine 
stream on the whites of two eggs, beaten dry; then add half 
cup of macaroon crumbs, half cup of nut meats, one third cup 
of candied cherries, cut fine, and half teaspoonful, each, of orange 
and vanilla extract. 

ALMOND CAKE 

J cup of butter. 3 teaspoonfuls of baking-powder. 

1 cup of sugar. i teaspoonful of vanilla extract. 
i cup of milk. J cup of blanched almonds. 

2 cups of flour. Granulated sugar. 

The whites of 3 eggs. 

Mix in the usual manner and spread in two layer-cake pans. 
Halve the nuts and press sidewise into the top of one of the layers, 
and sprinkle with granulated sugar. Bake about fifteen minutes. 



LEMON QUEENS 411 

Put the layers together with White Mountain frosting, to which 
one third cup of diopped almonds has been added. This cake is 
particularly good with a boiled chocolate dressing between and 
above the layers. Omit the almonds. Chopped English walnuts 
in the chocolate filling and halves of nuts on the top are good, 
though, perhaps, superiluous. 

PINEAPPLE CAKE 

i cup cff butter. i teaspoonful of soda. 

I J cups of sugar. J teaspoonful of cream-of-tartar. 

} cup of milk. I teaspoonful of lemon extract. 

2i cups of flour. The whites of five eggs. 

Bake in layer-cake pans. Put pineapple filling between the 
layers and plain idng on the top. 

PISTACHIO CAKE 

Bake the mixture for ice cream or pineapple cake in a dripping 
pan. When baked and cold, invert and spread the bottom of the 
cake with White Mountain frosting, and sprinkle thickly with 
chopped pistachio nuts. Flavor with half a teaspoonful of almond 
extract. 

MOLASSES DROP CAKE. (MRS. TAYLOR) 

I cup of butter. i tablespoonful of ginger, 

f cup of boiling water. i teaspoonful of cinnamon. 

I pint of molasses. i teaspoonful of salt. 

I tablespoonful of soda. Flour for drop batter. 

Melt the butter in the boiling water and add the molasses and 
the other ingredients sifted together. Drop from a spoon on to a 
buttered baking tin, having the cakes some distance apart. Bake 
in a slow oven. 

LEMON QUEENS 

i cup of butter. 4 eggs. 

I cup of sugar. . i| cups of flour. 

The grated rind and juice of half a i teaspoonful of salt, 

lemon. i teaspoonful of soda. 

Mix in the usual manner and bake in small tins (lemon-queen 
cake tins are deep rather than broad) about twenty-five minutes. 
Cover the tops with plain icing flavored with lemon, 



412 PRACTICAL COOKING AND SERVING 

PLUNKETTS 

I cup of butter. § cup of flour. 

I cup of sugar. f cup of cornstarch. 

6 eggs. 2 teaspoonfuls of baking-powder. 

I teaspooniul of vanilla extract. 

Cream the butter; add the sugar, beating until foamy. Beat 
the whites of the eggs tmtil dry and the yolks until light colored and 
thick, pour the yolks over the whites and "cut and fold" together. 
Sift together, twice, the flour, cornstarch and baking-powder. Add 
the beaten eggs to the butter and sugar gradually, then add the 
dry ingredients and the vanilla extract. Bake in individual tins, 
buttered. Ice or not as desired. 

SMALL CHOCOLATE CAKES 

i cup of butter. i teaspoonful of cinnamon. 

J cup of cocoa. § cup of water. 

3 eggs. I J cups of flour. 

I cup of sugar. 3 teaspoonfuls of baking-powder. 

Add the cocoa to the creamed butter and bake in small tins. 
When cold cover with marshmallow frosting, coiling the frosting 
round and round upon the top. 

NUT CAKES 

} cup of butter. if cups of flour. 

I cup of sugar. 4 teaspoonfuls of baking-powder. 

3 eggs. I teaspoonful of vanilla extract. 

i cup of milk. I a cup of of walnut meats, broken 

in pieces. 

Mix in the usual manner and bake in small tins. When cold 
spread the tops with White Mountain frosting and decorate with 
half a nut-meat. Or add half a cup of nut meats, broken in pieces, 
to a maple-sugar frosting, beat very light, let cool to keep shape, 
and put on to the cakes so that it be quite irregular in appearance. 

BROWNIES 

} cup of butter. i egg well beaten. 

i cup of sugar. i cup of flour. 

i cup of molasses (dark). i cup of nuts, pecan or walnuts. 



PEANUT COOKIES 413 

Mix in the usual manner, but without separating the egg. Bake 
in small, fancy-shaped cake tins. Press half a nut meat into the 
top of each cake. Small pressed tins of American made in various 
shapes, as stars, shells, leaves, etc., can be purchased for three 
cents each. 

VIENNA QUEENS 

i cup of buttei. I tablespoouful of rich cream. 

i cup of sugar. i teaspoonf ul of vanilla. 

3 eggs J cup of flour. 

6 ounces of dried cocoanut. f cup of cornstarch. 

8 crushed macaroons. i teaspoonful of baking-powder. 

Mix in the usual manner, adding the eggs, beaten without sepa- 
rating, before the flour, cocoanut, and macaroon crumbs. Bake 
in small tins, buttered and dusted with equal parts of sugar and 
flour. Shell or nut-shaped tins are pretty. When cold, ice and 
decorate with candied friiit. These cakes may also be baked in 
lemon queen tins; when cold remove the centres and fill with 
whipped cream; garnish with candied cherries. Or bake in two 
layers and put together with whipped cream. 

COCOANUT POUND CAKE 

I cup of butter. 3 cupe of flour. 

3 cups of sugar. 2 level teaspoonfuls of cream-of- 

1 cup of milk. tartar (scant measure). 
The whites of six eggs, i teaspoonful of soda. 

I grated cocoanut. 

Follow the directions for mixing butter cakes; add the cocoanut 
(freshly .grated) at the last and bake in two tube pans; ice with 
boiled icing. Or bake in small cakes — the mixture will make 
three dozen. When cold dip in fondant, delicately tinted, and 
ornament with halved almonds and candied cherries. For baking 
in loaves, or small cakes, the oven at first needs be at a very moder- 
ate temperatxure. 

PEANUT COOKIES. (MISS YOUNQ, NEW HAMPSHIRE) 

i cup of butter (scant). i cup of flour. 

i cup of sugar, i teaspoonfid of salt. 

2 tablespoonfuls of milk. 2 teaspoonfuls of baking-powder, 
I egg. \ cup of peanuts. 



414 PRACTICAL COOKING AND SERVING 

Mix in the usual manner; add the egg beaten without separating 
the white from the yolk. Reserve a few whole pieces of nuts to 
gami^ the tops of the cakes, and add the rest, poimded fine in a 
mortar, at the last. Drop on a buttered tin, a teaspoonful in a 
place and some distance apart. The ingredients as given will make 
two dozen cookies. 

PFEFFER NUESSE 

I pound of sugar (2 cups). i tablespoonful of cloves. 

I pound of flour (4 cups). i tablespoonful of mace. 

The giated rind of one lemon. ^ tablespoonful of nutmeg. 

} cup of fine-chopped citron. 2 teaspoonfuls of baking-powder. 

I tablespoonful of cinnamon. 5 eggs. 

Pass the flour, sugar, spices, and baking-powder through the 
sieve together; add the citron and lemon rind and mix to a dough 
with the eggs beaten without separating the whites and yolks. 
With buttered hands shape into small balls the size of a hickory 
nut. Bake on waxed or buttered paper, an inch apart, to a delicate 
brown, in a quick oven. These much resemble macaroons. The 
recipe gives seventy cakes. 

ENGLISH QINQER NUTS. (JULIA DAVIS CHANDLER) 

i pound of butter (i cup). 1 poimd of flour (4 cups). 

I pound of sugar (2 cups). 2 tablespoonfuls of white ginger. 

2 eggs. 

Cream the butter, add the sugar, eggs beaten without separating, 
and ginger with the flour. Shape into balls the size of marbles. 
Bake in a quick oven, but avoid burning. This recipe makes about 
forty little cakes similar to macaroons in looks and flavor. Fine- 
chopped candied orange peel is an improvement to these cakes. 

FAIRY GINGERBREAD 

} cup of butter. ^ cup of milk. 

I cup of powdered sugar. i| cups of flour. 

I tablespoonful of ginger. 

Cream together the butter and sugar; add the milk drop by drop, 
then the flour and ginger sifted together. With a broad-bladed 
knife spread the mixture very thin on the bottom of dripping pans, 
inverted and buttered, and mark in squares; bake about five min- 



GERMAN CRISPS 415 

utes, or until delicately colored. The heat of the oven should be 
moderate. Very quickly cut the wafers apart, turn upon the hot 
pan, and roll in a tubular shape. Roll either from one side or 
comer. 

ALMOND WAFERS 

J cup of butter. i teaspoonful of vanilla. 

I cup of powdered sugar. 2 cups of pastry flour. 

i cup of milk. Chopped almonds. 

Mix, bake, and roll aS fairy gingerbread, sprinkling the mixture, 
after spreading and scoring, with the chopped almonds. The wafers 
may be tied in threes with very narrow ribbon. Or, the sides dipped 
in caramel, they may be pressed one against another aroimd a 
mould. Heat the mould a little, and the case may be slipped from 
the mould to set in place about a charlotte or Bavarian cream. 

GRAHAM WAFERS 

I cup of butter. § teaspoonful of soda. 

I cup of sugar. 2 teaspoonfuls of cream-of-tartar 

The white of one egg. l cup of water. 

Graham flour to knead. 

Mix in the usual manner, roll very thin, cut in squares with a 
sharp knife, or a pastry jagger, and prick with a fork; bake until 
crisp, but of delicate color. 

GERMAN RINGS 

I pound of flour (4 cups). The yolks of three eggs. 

8 ounces of butter (i cup). i teaspoonful of vanilla extract. 

6 ounces of sugar (f cup). Sliced almonds or pistachios. 

The white of one egg. 

Cream the butter and add the sugar, yolks of eggs, vanilla, and 
flour. Add the last of the flour very carefully, as all may not be 
required. Knead imtil well mixed, then roll into a thin dieet, cut 
into rings two iriches across, brush over with the white of egg, 
slightly beaten and sprinkle thickly with thin sliced or chopped 
almonds or pistachios. Bake a pale straw color. 

GERMAN CRISPS 

1 cup of butter. 3 eggs. 

2 cups of sugar. Flour to knead. 

The grated rind and juice of one Chopped nuts, fruit, etc 
lemon. 



41 6 PRACTICAL COOKING AND SERVING 

Add the sugar gradually to the creamed butter, then the rind 
and juice of the lemon, the yolks and whites beaten separately, 
and the flour. Roll into a thin sheet, cut out into roimds, hearts, 
diamonds, etc., brush over with beaten white of egg and decorate 
with nuts and candied fruit. Bake to a delicate straw color. 
Before baking dredge with granulated sugar. Use half the recipe. 

COOKIES 

I cHp of butter. i to i full cup of milk. 

1 cups of sugar. 4 cups of flour or less. 

2 eggs. 6 teaspoonfuls of baking-powder. 

Mix in the usual manner, adding milk according as a rich, crisp, 
or a less rich and soft cookie is desired. Diminish the quantity of 
flour and baking-powder, if less than a full cup of liquid be used. 
Take a little of the dough upon the board at a time, and handle 
as little as possible; the dough should be quite soft, if a cup of milk 
be used, pat into a sheet and cut into cakes. After placing in the 
pan dredge with granulated sugar. Bake in a quick oven. 

SOFT JUMBLES. (MRS. SIDNEY LINCOLN) 

i cup of butter. | cup of sour cream. 

I cup of sugar. 2§ cups of flour. 

I beaten egg. J teaspoonfxil of soda. 

Caraway seed. 

Mix in the order given; drop from a spoon; bake in a slow oven. 

GINGER SNAPS 

I cup of butter. i egg. 

I cup of sugar. i teaspoonful of soda. . 

cup of molasses. i tablespoonful of ginger. 

Flour to knead. 

Mix In the usual manner, adding the flour sifted with the ginger, 
and the soda last. 

MOLASSES CANDY COOKIES. (ELEANOR J. McKENZIE) 

I cup of butter. aj cups of molasses. 

2 cups of flour. 

Boil the butter and molasses until thick, but not quite candied; 
when cooled a little, add the flour, more may be required. When 
thoroughly cold, roll and cut into cakes. Bake in a slow oven. 



CHOU PASTE 417 

HERMITS 

I cup of butter. 3 cups of flour or more. 

I J cups of sugar. i teaspoonful of cloves. 

I cup of chopped raisins. i teaspoonful of nutmeg. 

3 eggs. J teaspoonful of soda. 

Add the raisins to the butter and sugar creamed together; then 
add the eggs, beaten without separating the whites and yolks, and 
the flour sifted with the soda and spice; roll into a thin sheet, cut 
in rounds and bake in a slow oven. 

SPRINQERLE 

4 eggs. I pound of flour. 

I pound of powdered sugar. i teaspoonful of baking-powder 

The grated rind of one lemon. (scant). 

i teaspoonful of salt. 

Beat the yolks of the eggs until light colored and thick, the whites 
until dry, then beat together; add the grated lemon rind and the 
sugar, sifted, very gradually, beating all the time, lastiy add the 
flour with the baking-powder and salt. All of the flour rday not 
be required. Knead and cover closely; let chill two or three hours, 
then roll, a small piece at a time, into a sheet one eighth an inch 
thick; with a very close sieve dust the sheet of dough lightiy with 
flour, then press the wooden springerle moiild do^iTi very hard upon 
the dough, so as to leave a perfect impress of the pictures upon 
the dough; cut out the little squares with a knife and set aside, on a 
board lightiy floured, over night. In the morning transfer to bak- 
ing tins, buttered and sprinkled with anise seed, and bake in a slow 
oven to a light straw color. These delicious littie cakes are quite 
universally made in Germany a few weeks before Christmas. Often 
they are kept on hand for months, and when eaten are softened iii 
the beverage which accompanies them. Some of the pictures upon 
the moulds are grotesque, others are very attractive. 

CHOU PASTE 

} cup of butter. i cup of flour. 

I cup of boiling water. 3 large or four small eggs. 

Set a saucepan containing the butter and water over the fire; 
when the mixture boils sift in one cup of flour and beat vigorously. 



4i8 PRACTICAL COOKING AND SERVING 

When the mixture cleaves from the sides of the pan, turn into a 
bowl and beat in the eggs, one at a time, and very thoroughly. 
The mixture is now ready for use as indicated. 

BOSTON CREAM CAKES 

Put the chou paste into a pastry bag with tube having an open- 
ing half an inch in diameter. Force the batter on to a buttered 
baking sheet, in balls about two inches in diameter. Brush over 
the tops with a little beaten egg, diluted with milk, and bake about 
twenty-five minutes with heat strongest at the bottom of the 
oven. When baked and cold open at one side and fill with 
whipped cream, sweetened and flavored, or with English cream 
filling. (See Custards.) 

FRENCH CREAM CAKES 

Press the chou paste on to a buttered sheet, giving the balls a 
slightly oval shape. Brush with egg and bake as before. Cut 
across the tops a little at one side and fill with thick cream, sweet- 
ened and flavored and beaten stiff. In filling the cakes use a 
pastry bag with star tube attached. Sprinkle the tops of the 
cakes with sifted, powdered sugar. Cream cakes are often served 
with a spoonful of strawberry preserves. In season, fresh berries 
mashed to a pulp may be added to the cream before whipping. 

CHOCOLATE ECLAIRS 

Press the chou paste from a pastry bag with plain tube> three 
fourths an inch in diameter, on to a buttered baking-sheet, in strips 
three inches and a half in length. When baked and cold fill with 
French or English cream. Dip the smooth, or imder sides, into 
chocolate fondant, or spread with chocolate frosting. (See page 
425.) 

QUEEN ECLAIRS 

Bake &lairs in the usual shape, only smaller. When cool fill 
with peach marmalade, in which fine-chopped almonds have been 
mixed. Spread the tops with orange icing. 

SWEDISH MACAROONS 

u ounces of shredded almonds. i pound of sugar. 

4 ounces of ground almonds, 2 whole eggs. 

^ ounces of cort(.<!tarch, The grated rind of two orangej 



MERINGUES 419 

Pass the sugar and cornstarch through the sieve twice, add the 
almonds, orange rind, and, lastly, the eggs beaten light without 
separating. With buttered hands shape the mixture into balls 
the size of a walnut; bake on tins, covered with oiled or waxed 
paper, in a slow oven. 

CHOCOLATE PUFFS 

Omit from the chou paste mixture given above two level table- 
spoonfuls of flour, and, after all the eggs are added, beat in an ounce 
and a half of chocolate melted over hot water. Press on to the 
baking-sheet in stars, by the use of the star tube. When baked and 
cold cut off the top of each cake and remove any uncooked paste 
from the centre; put into each cake a teaspoonful of strawberry 
preserves or apricot marmalade, and above this a star of thick 
cream sweetened, flavored and beaten until solid. 

MERINGUES 

i pound (i cup) of whites of eggs. i pound (2 cups) of fine granulated 
I teaspoonful of salt. sugar. 

5 teaspoonful of vanilla extract. 

The eggs should be fresh; add the salt, beat slowly at first — a 
confectioner's whisk is the best utensil for the purpose — then 
beat faster as they grow stiff, until they aie very stiff; then whisk 
in two tablespoonfuls of the sugar; add the same quantity of sugar 
twice more, whisking in the sugar thoroughly each time before more 
is added, then continue beating until the mixture can be cut clean 
with a knife. Then add the rest of a pound (one cup) of sugar and 
fold into the mass lightly and smoothly. Lightly tack a sheet of 
damp paper on to a board about one inch in thickness; with a spoon 
drop the mixture on to the paper, giving each spoonful an oval or 
egg shape. Dust these with granulated sugar, set into a cool oven, 
and let dry out rather than bake. At the last increase the heat, 
and let them take on a delicate brown color." When baked they 
can be lifted from the paper. Baking will require from three fourths 
an hour to a fxill hour. When baked remove the tacks and invert 
the paper; carefully take off the meringues, and take out the un- 
cooked portion in the centre; lay, with the open centre up, on 
another board, and return to the dven to dry. When dry And cold 
fill the shells, nicely paired, with whipped cream, sweetened and 



4;fo PRACTICAL COOKING AND SERVING 

flavored, or with cream or water ice, and press the two correspond- 
ing parts together. Serve at once. The meringues may be baked 
on a waxed baking-sheet. An extra half cup of sugar gives a drier 

meringue. 

MUSHROOM MERINGUES 

With pastry bag and plain tube shape the meringue mixture into 
roimds the size of mushroom caps, and in upright pieces, like thick 
mushroom stems. Dust the caps with grated cocoanut or powdered 
cinnamon. When baked and taken from the paper, fit the caps, 
whole hot, on the stems. 

MERINGUES WITH WHIPPED CREAM AND STRAW- 
BERRIES 

These are more easily served when they are arranged on indi- 
vidual plates. Place two shells close together, side by side, and 
fill with the froth from thin cream, sweetened before beating. 
Garnish with strawberries. Or dilute a cup of thick cream with a 
cup of strawberry pulp and juice, add sugar to taste, beat very stiff 
with a whisk and use as a filling for the shells. Garnish with whole 
berries, or with chopped or halved pistachio nuts. The two halves 
may be fastened together with a little hot caramel, to simulate a 
half-opened clam shell, then fill with cream. 

BOW KNOTS 

2 eggs. J level teaspoonful of cream-of-tartar. 

I cup of sugar. J teaspoonful, each, of salt and 
1 tablespoonful of thick cream mace. 

(sweet). Flour to make a stiff dough. 

1 tablespoonful of melted butter. | teaspoonful of soda. 

Beat the eggs without separating; add the sugar, cream, and 
butter, then the flour sifted with the other ingredients; roll small 
pieces of the dough into strips in size and shape of a pencil, tie in 
bow or single knots, fry in deep fat and roll in powdered sugar. 

DOUGHNUTS 

2 whole eggs and the yolk of one 3 teaspoonfuls of cream-of-tartar, 

more. slightly rounding. 

I cup of sugar. i teaspoonful of soda. 

I cup of milk. I teaspoonful of salt. 

S cups of sifted flour. i teaspoonful of mace. 




MOCHA CAKES 




POINSETTIA CAKE 




HOLLOW SPONGE CAKE. 

Filled with whipped cream, covered with soft frosting and 
decorated with candied fruit and lady fingers 




BIRTHDAY CAKE. 

Decorated with ornamental frosting, small candies and candles 




FINGER BISCUIT WITH PISTACHIOS. OTHELLOS 

Pound cake cut in diamonds and crescents, iced and decorated with cherries 
and angelica. (See pages 401 and 402.; 



CHRISTMAS WREATHS 421 

Beat the eggs, add the sugar gradually, then the milk, and stir 
into the rest of the ingredients sifted together, mix thoroughly, 
adding more flour, if necessary. The dough should be about as 
soft as can be handled. Take out a little at a time on to a floured 
board, knead lightly, roll into a sheet and cut into rings. Drop 
into hot fat and fry to a yellow brown, turning otten; drain on soft 
paper. 

MARGUERITES. (EMMA L. MORROW, NEW YORK) 

Boil one cup of sugar and half a cup of water until it threads. 
Remove to back of the range and drop in five marshmallows, cut 
in pieces. Let stand to dissolve, then gradually pour on to the 
whites of two eggs, beaten until foamy. Add two tablespoonfuls 
of shredded cocoanut and one fourth teaspoonful of vanilla. When 
partially cool add one cup of English walnut meats. Spread on 
saltines and brown slightly in a hot oven. This quantity will 
spread between three and four dozen crackers. Delicious for 
afternoon teas. 

WALDORF TRIANGLES 

Beat the yokes of six eggs very light. Gradually beat into these 
half a cup of granulated sugar, then a grating of orange rind and 
two tablespoonfids of orange juice. Lastly, add half a cup of sifted 
flour, sifted again with a level teaspoonful of baking-powder and a 
few grains of salt. Put the mixture into the pans made for the 
purpose and bake in an oven rather hotter than for angel cake. 
When the cakes are turned from the moulds cover the sides with 
boiled frosting and sprinkle with fine-chopped pistachio nuts. The 
recipe makes twelve cakes. 

CHRISTMAS WREATHS 

Prepare half the recipe for German Crisps (page 415). Roll the 
dough into a thin sheet and cut out with a doughnut cutter. Lift 
the wreaths on to a baking-sheet, brush over with slightly beaten 
white of an egg, decorate with fine-chopped pistachio nuts and 
small round red candies. 



CHAPTER XVII 
Coke Icings and Decorations 







Butter Icing. 
Water Icing. 






Fruit Juice Icing. 




Chocolate Icing with Water. 




Uncooked. 


Chocolate Icing with Syrup. 
Royal Icing. 
Soft Icing. 
Ornamental lang 


Icings for 




Almond Icing. 


Cake. 




Caramel. 








White Mountain Cream 








or Italian Meringue. 




Cooked. 


"Boiled" Icing. 


Chocolate. 
Fruit Juice. 






Marshmallow. 








Fondant Icing. 



Cakes are decorated with sugar in various forms, with fruit oi 
with nuts, either alone or combined with sugar, also with butter 
combined with sugar. The simplest decoration is obtained by 
dusting a baked cake with white or tinted, powdered or granqlated, 
sugar; this decoration is especially appropriate when the cake is 
baked in layers, and these are held together with whipped cream or 
a custard filling. The sugar will adhere to the cake much better 
if the cake be first brushed over with white of egg or fruit jelly. 
Sugar of one color may be used, or the cake may be scored in some 
pattern as diamonds, squares, etc., and the design may be filled in 
with sugar in two or more colors. The decoration next in order, as 
regards simplicity of production, is obtained by sprinkling the top 
of the cake with either powdered or granulated sugar before baking; 
this may be elaborated by inserting blanched and halved almonds 

42? 



BUTTER ICING 423 

sidewise in the top of the cake, and sprinkling the whole with sugar. 
Fruit may be used in the same manner. 

When sugar, used for decoration, is mixed with liquid, to form 
a mixture, and this is spread upon a cake so as to cover completely 
its surface, the cake is said to be frosted or iced. 

The process of forcing frosting or icing through a bag with tube 
attached, so as to trace a design upon the cake, is called piping. 
Only specially prepared icings can be used for piping. 

A frosted cake is decorated with piping alone; or coarse, colored 
sugars, citron, glace fruits, nuts, small candies and fruit jellies are 
combined with the piping. 

MATERIALS FOR UNCOOKED ICINQ 

With the exception of the syrup for chocolate icing, which 
is of granulated sugar, and which might be classed among the 
cooked icings, all uncooked icings are made of confectioner's 
sugar. This sugar is considered finer than ordinary powdered 
sugar. When eggs are called for, they should be fresh; nuts should 
be without rancidity, and all flavoring materials the choicest in 
quality. 

UTENSILS 

The utensils needed in decorating are few: a sieve with a very 
fine mesh, twenty-eight holes to the linear inch, through which the 
dry sugar should always be passed, is of the utmost importance. 
For ornamental icing a round bottomed bowl, a wooden spatula, 
or perforated spoon, for mixing, and bags with tubes for piping the 
mixture, are also essentials. 

The bags for holding icing that is to be piped may be bought, or, 
at very slight expense, made at home. (See Pastry Bag and Tubes, 
page 29.) Copper tubes may be bought, in sets of six or twelve, at 
a confectioner's or a large kitchen furnishing store. These afford 
shapes for large and small rounds, stars, leaves, ribbons, cords, 
and frills. The angle at which the bag is to be held while at work 
depends upon the position of the surface to be decorated and the 
style of decoration; this is readily determined upon trial. 

RECIPES FOR UNCOOKED ICINGS 

BUTTER ICINQ (MOCHA CREAM) 

I cup of butter. zj cups of powdered sugar. 

The yolk of one egg. Coffee extract to tast;e, 



424 PRACTICAL COOKING AND SERVING 

Wash the butter in cold water, to free it from salt, pat it to're- 
move all water, and then beat to a cream; add the beaten yolk of 
egg, and, gradually, the sugar and enough coffee extract to give the 
flavor desired. A very little caramel or color paste may be added 
to heighten the color when needed. The tint shovdd be that of a 
cup of strong coffee with cream. Use for filling between layers 
and for piping. One or two squares of melted chocolate and a tea- 
spoonful of vanilla may be used instead of the coffee. About 
one quarter a cup of black coffee is needed. 

YELLOW ICINQ 

2 yolks of eggs, beaten light. i tablespoonful of lemon juice. 

Giated rind of one orange. i tablespoonful of cuiafoa. 

Juice of half an orange. Confectioner's sugar as needed. 

Wash and wipe the orange before grating the rind. The curajoa 
heightens the orange flavor; if not at hand maraschino — though 
not as appropriate in this connection — may be used in its place, or 
this item may be omitted. The yolkes are used for color, the frost- 
ing is softer and keeps in better condition if they be omitted. 
This frosting is particularly good for the orange cake on page 402. 
Sections of orange from which a membrane is removed may be 
used to decorate the frosting. Partly cover the sections with 
frosting. 

WATER ICINQ 

About 4. tablespoonfuls of dear, i| cups of confectioner's sugar. 

black coSee or Flavoring as needed. 

About 4 tablespoonfuls of fruit juice. Color paste for tinting as desired. 

If the cake be but slightly cooled, let the liquid be cold; if the 
cake be cold, let the liquid be hot. Stir the liquid into the sifted 
sugar, adding more, a few drops at a time, as needed. A little lemon 
juice added to other fruit jvuce accentuates the flavor of the latter. 
The icing is of proper consistency when it coats the spoon and 
conceals it-s color. Water, milk or cream may be used. 

WATER ICINQ WITH CHOCOLATE 

li cups of confectioner's sugar. i ounce of chocolate. 

About 6 tablespoonfuls of boiling i teaspoonful of vanilla extract, 
water. 



ORNAMENTAL ICING 4aS 

Melt the chocolate over hot water; add the boiling water and stir 
in sugar; add the vanilla and stir in the sifted sugar^ adding more 
hot water, if needed, to spread the mixture smootldy. 

CHOCOLATE ICINQ WITH SYRUP 

2 ounces of cocoa or chocolate. J cup of syiup registering 30° on the 

^ teaspoonful of ground cinnamon syrup gauge. 

or cinnamon extract. Confectioner's sugar as needed. 

i teaspoonful of vanilla extract. 

Melt the chocolate over hot water (the cocoa will melt in the 
syrup), add the cinnamon and stir in the hot syrup; let stand over 
hot water until beaten smooth and very hot; add the vanilla and 
sugar as needed, then pour or spread upon the cake; eclairs and 
small cakes may be dipped into the hot icing. 

ROYAL ICINQ 

The white of one egg. Confectioner's sugar. 

a tablespoonfuls of cold water, or Color paste for tinting if desired. 

The juice of half a lemon or both water and juice. 

Stir sugar into the liquid ingredients until the icing is of a con- 
sistency to spread. If the mixture be beaten, instead of stirred, 
less sugar will be required, and the icing will be lighter, but it will 
be less soft and creamy and will dry out more quiddy. 

SOFT ICINQ (ICE CREAM ICINQ) 

The whites of two eggs. i teaspoonful of vanilla extract. 

J cup of confectioner's sugar. 

Beat the whites of the eggs until dry, then beat in, gradually, 
the sugar; add the flavoring and beat the mixtiure (a confectioner's 
whisk is the best utensil for the purpose) imtil it is very smooth and 
glossy. This makes a very soft icing. It is used principally on 
white layer caJte, as filling and idng. It spreads easily upon the 
sides of the cake to cover. Make smooth with a silver knife. 

ORNAMENTAL ICING 

The whites of four eggs. I teaspoonful of cream-of-tartar, or 

I pound of confectioner's sugar. i tablespoonful of lemon juice. 

Beat the whites of the eggs with one fourth cup of sugar three 
or four minutes, then continue to add the same quantity of sugar, 



426 PRACTICAL COOKING AND SERVING 

beating the same length of time, until half the sugar has been used; 
add the cream-of-tartar with the second quantity of sugar; or add 
the lemon juice gradually as the mixtiu-e thickens. Now continue 
adding the sugar, a spoonful at a time, beating several minutes be- 
tween each addition, imtil a knife cut down into the frosting makes 
a " clean cut " that will not close again. Spread the cake with a thin 
coating of frosting and, when this has hardened by standing, spread 
on a second layer, make it level with a thin knife, score for cutting 
«n slices and set aside to become perfectly dry before tracing upon 
<t the pattern for piping. Many reconunend setting the cake in 
warming oven a few moments, as "the heat sets, swells, and glazes 
the icing." Icing to be spread upon the sides of a cake needs be a 
little thicker than that for the flat top surface. To the remaining 
frosting continue to add sugar and beat xmtil the icing will flow in a 
continuous stream and keep the shape of the tube attached to the 
bag. The full pound of sugar will not be needed if a part of the 
frosting be used, before its addition, to cover the top of the cake. 

The success attending the use of this icing depends much upon 
thorough beating between the additions of sugar. 

Particularly is this true of icing used for piping; this needs be 
stiffer and tougher than that for merely covering a cake; and this 
condition is secured by the beating rather than by the addition of 
sugar. Without beating it will not hold its shape. 

This icing dries very quickly and, if it be not used as soon as 
finished, cover it with a damp cloth and plate. When a large cake 
is to be iced, it is better to make frosting, and ice and dry the cake 
before commencing the ornamental icing for piping. Idng is 
often tinted with vegetable color paste. When a brown color is 
desired, cocoa or confectioner's chocolate, such as is used for 
dipping bonbons, is preferable to the ordinary chocolate, which 
thickens too much to allow the icing to flow freely. 

ALMOND ICINQ 

Almond icing is used in connection with any of the icings given 
above excepting, perhaps, the soft icing; by its use crumbs, so 
troublesome in icing a cake, are avoided. Beat into enough al- 
mond paste to cover the surface of the cake to the thickness desired 
(one eighth to one fourth an inch does nicely) as many yolks of 
eggs as will make it of a consistency to roll out. Dust the mould- 
ing board with powdered sugar and roll into a sheet; cut, by a 
pattern, to fit the cake, press upon the cake and let stand twenty- 



WHITE MOUNTAIN CREAM 417' 

four hours before spreading the icing. Four ounces of paste and 
the yolks of two eggs will cover the top and sides of a small cake, 
2uch as is shown in the illustration. 

COOKED ICINGS 

Granulated sugar is, as a rule, required for the foundation of 
cooked icings, though light brown and maple sugar are used oc- 
casionally. The sugar is cooked with liquid to different degrees 
by the sugar thermometer. The proportion of sugar to liquid in 
making the sryup is about four of the former to one of the latter, 
by measure or weight, as: one cup of sugar (one half pound) to 
one fourth cup of liquid (one eighth poxmd). When the syrup 
is to be diluted with eggs it is cooked to the soft ball degree. At 
this point the sugar thermometer registers about 238°. (See Boiling 
Sugar, page 582!) 

CARAMEL ICINQ 

3 cups of brown sugar (coSee C). J cup of water. 

i cup of cream, or i tablespoonful of butter. 

i cup of condensed milk and i teaspoonful of vanilla. 

Boil all the ingredients, save the vanilla; four minutes after boil- 
ing begins add the flavor, and beat until the mixture begins to 
thicken, then spread at once upon the cake and score for cutting. 

WHITE MOUNTAIN CREAM OR ITALIAN MERINGUE 

1} cups of sugar. The whites of two eggs. 

I teaspoonful of cream-of-tartar. i teaspoonful of vanilla, or 
J cup of boiling water. | teaspoonful of lemon juice. 

Stir the sugar, cream-of-tartar and water over the fire until 
the sugar dissolves and the mixture reaches the boiling point, 
then wash down, cover let boil three minutes, imcover and 
cook without stirring until the syrup threads when dropped from 
the spoon. The sugar thermometer will register about 238° Fahr. 
Pour the syrup in a fine stream on to the whites of the eggs, beaten 
dry, beating constantly meanwhile, add the flavor, and beat 
occasionally until cool enough to spread. This frosting is made to 
perfection when it has a thin glossy crust upon the outside and is 
soft and creamy inside. Ornament the icing and score for cutting 
as soon as it is spread, since it often crusts over instantly. If, 



428 PRACTICAL COOKING AND SERVING 

when ready to spread, it seems to have been cooked too much, a 
little boiling water, lemon juice, preserves or synip may be beaten 
into it. If not sufficiently cooked, let cook longer,~over a slow fire, 
stirring constantly, or add some ingredient, as chopped nuts. Or 
add melted chocolate, which thickens on cooling. 

BOILED PINEAPPLE FROSTING 

i cup of grated pineapple The whites of two eggs, 

(juice and pulp). ^ teaspoonful of lemon juice. 

I cup of granulated sugar. 

Cook the sugar and juice to a syrup that threads (238" Fahr.) 
and proceed as for White Mountain cream. 

BOILED MAPLE FROSTING 

I pound of maple sugar, broken § cup of water. 

into pieces. The whites of two eggs. 

Make as White Moimtain cream. 

CHOCOLATE ICING (BOILED) 

li cups of sugar. 2 ounces of cocoa or chocolate. 

f cup of boiling water. The whites of two eggs. 

§ teaspoonful of vanilla extract. 

Boil the first two ingrfedients to the thread degree, 238° Fahr., 
on the sugar thermometer, beat in the melted chocolate or cocoa 
and pom: in a fine stream on to the whites of eggs, beaten until 
dry; beat until cool, add the vanilla and spread upon the cake. 
This is a particvdarly good icing to use with Engli^ walnuts, or 
pecan nuts. Almonds make a more showy decoration, but they 
taste better with chocolate, if combined with preserved fruit as 
cherries. This icing does not thicken as quickly as the ordinary 
boiled frosting and will run from the cake somewhat; with a silver 
knife return to the cake, even several times, when it will adhere. 
It has a dead rather than a glossy surface and will keep moist a 
week or ten days. If an ice with a glossy surface that stiffens at 
once be preferred, return the icing to the fire, after the addition of 
the chocolate, and boil a second time to the thread stage then 
finish as before. 




CAKE COVERED WITH ALMOND ICING. ICING WITH PATTERN 
(See page 426,) 




SPRINGERLIE. (See page 417.) 







ifummm m t a n mm. - ytif i fMr ii rii ri nir i rmit , '----^-f-i --•'■--'': - 




^:^. ^-iTiiiniir'itiirii f rinni^-|..%iiiM>iwMM 



•mm 




SPRINGERLIE MOULD. 



TO ICE A CAKE 4»5 

MARSHMALLOW FROSTINQ 

li cups of granulated sugar. ^ pound of matslunallows. 

i cup of boiling water. 2 tablespoonfuls of boiling water. 

The whites of two eggs. i teaspoonful of vanilla extract. 

Prepare the first three ingredients as "boiled frosting." Add 
the marshmallows, cut in small pieces and melted with the boiling 
water over the teakettle. Add the flavor and beat until cold. 
Decorate with cubes of marshmallows, if desired. 

MARSHMALLOW ICING NO. 2 

i 2 cups of granulated sugar. i lb. of marshmallows. 

i cup of boiling water. i teaspoonful of vanilla extract. 

4 whites of eggs. 

Boil the sugar and water as in making fondant to 240° F. Pour 
in a fine stream on the whites beaten dry, beating constantly 
meanwhile. Beat occasionally untO nearly cold, add the extract 
and the marshmallows, cut in four pieces, each. 

FONDANT ICINQ 

Icing made from fondant, both as regards looks and taste, is the 
best of all icings. However, it is more often used for small than for 
large cakes, as the best results are secured when the article to be 
iced is dipped into the icing. The fondant from which this icing 
is prepared keeps almost indefinitely, and, when not ready for use, 
may be bought of a confectioner or baker. A recipe for fondant is 
given on page 583. To prepare for icing, put what will be needed 
into the upper paxt of a double-boiler set over hot water; add a few 
drops of syrup, at about 35°, and such flavoring as is desired, and 
beat while it melts. The water need not boil, as the fondant melts at 
a low temperature. Tint if desired, and dip into the icing the ar- 
ticles to be coated. Small cakes of all kinds and &lairs are most 
commonly the choice. Add syrup to thin, as the mixture thickens, 
and always beat before dipping an article. Made a little thinner 
than for dipping, it may be rim on to a large cake. Fondant should 
be beaten, not stirred. 

TO ICE A CAKE 

Cakes that are properly mixed and baked need but little if any 
trimming to put them into symmetrical shape for icing. Trimming 



430 PRACTICAL COOKING AND SERVING 

should be avoided if possible, for a cake with a smooth surface and 
free from loose crumbs is the first essential of neat work. Often 
bakers brush the entire surface of angel cakes with a whiskbroom 
before pouring over them the thin water icing with which these 
cakes are usually masked. Small cakes cut from a sheet are 
"glazed," or brushed over with white of egg mixed with a small 
quantity of sugar, then allowed to dry twelve hours or more before 
icing. The preliminary smooth covering of almond icing answers 
the purpose for another class of cakes. Many cakes may be in- 
verted, thus presenting the surface next to the tin or lining of the 
tin for icing. "Water" icings and boiled icings need be spread 
very rapidly, as they set very soon, and the surface cannot be im- 
proved in appearance afterward save by the addition of another 
complete layer of icing. Royal icing may be made smooth and 
even with a silver knife wet in hot or cold water. 

Nearly a poimd of royal icing will be needed to cover the top and 
sides of a cake of ordinary size. 

TO ICE WITH ROYAL ICINQ 

Pour a quantity of the icing on to the middle of the cake and 
spread with knife, dipped in water, in an even layer over the top 
of the cake, turning it smoothly over the edges. Add sugar to the 
remaining icing and when thoroughly beaten put this by spoonfuls 
against the sides of the cake, and spread upward and downward 
until smooth. The cake should be set on a box resting on a meat 
or similar board, kept for the purpose, or on a large platter. Turn 
the cake by turning the box. The idng that drops to the board, 
or plate, below can be taken up and used again. Let the cake stand 
in the warm room or in the warming oven to dry for an hour or so. 
At this time nuts or candied fruit may be put in place. If the cake 
is to be iced with ornamental icing, it needs stand twelve hours or 
more. Water icing makes a better foundation. 

TO PIPE A CAKE WITH ORNAMENTAL ICINQ 

The forcing bag and tubes necessary in piping a cake are re- 
ferred to on page 29; see also illustration. To pipe a cake after an 
elaborate pattern requires a steady hand and much practice, but 
dots, circles, lines, and stars combined into a simple pattern, or 
even the letters of a child's name, may be easily accomplished, if 
the outlines of the design be indicated by points like those made 



PINEAPPLE FILLING 431 

with a larding needle. Small cakes, iced with fondant, are very 
easily decorated. The white of one egg and sugar in proportion 
will siiffice to decorate a large number. Small candies, candied 
cherries, violets and rose leaves are combined with the piping. For 
an elaborate design, suitable for a large cake, have a pattern traced 
on paper, cover this with a pane of glass and trace the pattern upon 
the glass until it is learned. Scrape off the icing before it dries 
and repeat. Lard or butter may be used instead of icing, while 
learning how to manipulate the tubes. 

BOILED CARAMEL ICING 

Boil one cup of granulated sugar and one fourth cup of water 
until the syrup threads. In Uie meantime cook one fourth cup 
of sugar to the caramel stage; add one or two tablespoonfuls of 
boiling water and cook until the caramel is dissolved. When the 
first sugar and water are boiled to the thread stage add the liquid 
caramel, and if not now at the thread stage continue cooking until 
that stage is reached, then pour in a fine stream on to the white of 
one egg beaten imtil very foamy but not dry. Beat occasionally 
until cold, then spread a part over the cake and with forcing bag 
and tube "pipe" the remainder upon the cake. This icing is par- 
ticularly good for a nut cake. Nuts may also be added to the icing. 

ORNAMENTAL FROSTING (BOILED) 

Dissolve a cup of granulated sugar in one fourth cup of hot 
water. Wash down the sugar from the sides of the pan, cover and 
let boil three or four minutes; uncover and let boil to 24o°Fahr., 
or to a rather firm " soft ball." Pour in a fine stream on the whites 
of two eggs, beaten dry, beating constantiy meanwhile. Return 
the icing to the saucepan and let cook on an asbestos mat or over 
boiling water, beating constantiy, until the icing wiU hold the 
shape given it. For poinsettias use a leaf tube. For the centres 
use tiny yellow candies. The idng may be left white or tinted with 
color paste. 

FILLINGS FOR LAYER CAKES 

PINEAPPLE FILLING 

barefully remove the outside and "eyes" of a pineapple, then 
grate the flesh from the core. Simmer until well reduced. To 



432 PRACTICAL COOKING AND SERVING 

eadi cup of reduced pulp add three fourths cup of sugar and cook 
to a marmalade. When cool spread between the layers of cake. 
The addition of the grated rind and juice of half a lemon tends to 
heighten or bring out the flavor of the pineapple. Finish the top 
of the cake with a boiled frosting, flavored with lemon, or use a 
confectioner's frosting. 

PINEAPPLE FILLING, NO. 2 

Stir enough sifted confectioner's sugar into half a cup of pine- 
apple pulp, reduced without sugar, to make a mixture of consist- 
ency to spread; flavor with orange or lemon extract, or a table 
spoonful of lemon juice, and use as filling and frosting. 

FIQ FILLING 

i pound of figs. 2 tableepoonfuls of sugar. 

i cap of water. Juice of half a lemoa. 

3 teaEpoonf uls of sherry vdne. 

Chop the figs very fine; cook with the sugar, water and fruit 
juice to a smooth paste; add the wine, ikea use between layers of 
cake. Cooked less thick the mixture may be used with confec- 
tioner's sugar as a frosting and filling. A small portion of pulp 
may be added to a boiled frosting after the syrup has been pour«l 
upon the eggs. If, at any time, through insufficient cooking, or 
the addition of too much liquid material, a boiled frosting is too 
thin to hold its shape, return to the fire and beat very vigorously 
while it evaporates a little. 

LEMON OR ORANGE FILLING 

I cup of sugar. 2 tablespoonfuls of buttec 

I lenuiD or oaaug*. i ^ or tm> yolks of e;gg. 

Beat the e^ without eapax&iSm the white and yolk; add the 
sugar, the grated rind and juice of the fruit and the butter, and 
cook over hot water, stirring constantly, until the mixture thickens. 
Use when cold. 



CHAPTER XVin 

Pastry and Pies 

Dame, get up and bake your pies, 

Bake your pies, bake your pies, 
Dame, get up and bake your pies, 

On Christmas day in the morning. 

Evidently Mother Goose, dear old soul, was in advance of her 
day and generation in the art of cookery, as well as in matters that 
pertain to the bringing up of children and sundry other perplexing 
questions of her day a6d ours. That Mother Goose was at the 
front in matters of cookery is evidenced by the fact that in those 
days, when pies were made by the hundred — the plate on which 
they were baked being handed around the neighborhood — she 
advised all good housewives to bake their pies on Christmas morn- 
ing — that is, on the day in which they were to be eaten. Without 
doubt, this wise old mother did not give her admonitions simply 
for the sake of rhyming. No; she had reasons for the same; and, 
like many another Boston woman who has had the courage of her 
convictions, she boldly annoimced them, heresy though they 
were. But the world moves; the wisdom of yesterday is an ex- 
ploded theory to-day, and in our day, though pastry works better 
when it is prepared the day beforehand, pies, in the usual accept- 
ance of the term, are not "put together" until the day on which 
they are to be served. 

The digestion of fat is not begun in the mouth as is that of starch. 
Fat undergoes no change in the system vmtil it is emulsified and 
saponified in the small intestines. As in making pastry the 
starch granules are completely enveloped in fat, these cannot be 
seized upon by the saliva in the mouth, and hence the digestion of 
the starch in pastry is postponed until after the fat is acted upon. 
Then, if the pancreatic juice can discharge its ofSce, all is well, but 
if this fails, the starch becomes so much waste material. The fact 
that insufficient water is added before cooking to cause the starch 
granules to swell properly also hinders digestion. For these and 

433 



434 PRACTICAL COOKING AND SERVING 

other reasons "pie" is no longer given a place in "good society.'' 
Yet, when one with good understanding of the subject uses good 
materials and is willing to give time and attention to the manipula- 
tion and cooking of pastry, pies may be so made that an occasional 
indulgence therein may be condoned. In the semi-privacy of 
family gatherings, particularly during the hohday season, pie is 
often in evidence; while anything made of puff-paste is given place 
of honor on any occasion, no matter how formal. 

The English are noted for the number and variety of their pies. 
These consist of a heavy crust, made of suet, with fillings composed 
of every known kind of fish or flesh. They are eaten hot or cold, 
and are, no doubt, a relic of that rude age, when every man's dwell- 
ing was his castle, from which he was wont to sally forth with hia 
retainers, to avenge wrongs or enlarge the boundaries of his feudal 
domain. Dickens makes his characters revel in pies. You recall 
how his "fat boy" was always on the point of beginning or finishing 
"a jolly meat pie." 

Some French cooks include brioche, chou paste (used for &lairs, 
cheese dishes, etc.,), sponge and other cakes, under the term "pas- 
try." The word as here used is limited to a mixture of flour, short- 
ening, and some liquid, mixed, rolled, sometimes folded and baked 
for special purposes. 

Thus restricted pastry may be classified under four heads: 

f Plain / ^ ■ Shortening mixed into the flour by chopping oi 

"^ with the tips of the fingers. 

p i-p ft I '■ Shortening worked into a paste of flour and water 

' ' ^ by folding and rolling. 

< 3 . Shortening mixed into the flour by a combination 
flaky. { ^f j.jjg gj,gj, ^^^ methods. 

A foxurth paste might be mentioned, for it is still in use in some 
parts of England as it was in this country in early colonial times, 
but it now has become weU-nigh obsolete. In this pastry the 
shortening, beef or mutton suet, is melted in boiling water and 
stirred boiling hot into the flovir. After kneading and rolling the 
pastry into a thick sheet it is shaped upon or in a mould by pressing 
upon it with the fingers xmtil the mould is covered. Thus the 
"raised pies" of colonial times were made. 

MATERIALS AND UTENSILS 

A cool, dry atmosphere is an essential condition in successful 
pastry making. A flour that absorbs moisture least — that is, a fine 



PLAIN PASTRY 435 

pastry or cake flour, well dried by standing in the warming oven — 
is a first requisite in pastry making. There are several good brands 
of flour made expressly for this purpose. The shortening, except 
for pufE-paste, is largely a matter of taste. Lard makes a light 
colored, soft, tender crust. Cottolene gives a paste slightly darker 
when baked, but also soft and tender. The vegetable oils give 
good results. Beef suet or butter, alone or in combination, may be 
used for any paste other than puff; for this butter is generally pre- 
ierred, though some chefs choose a clarified suet. 

Formerly ice water was thought necessary in mixing paste, but, 
at the present time, it is known that the process is simplified by 
using water of the same temperature as that of the room in which 
the paste is mixed; this, needless to say, should be very low. No 
more water should be used than is absolutely necessary, as water 
detracts from the shortness of the crust. 

PROPORTIONS OF FLOUR AND WATER 

Flour varies greatly, but half the weight of the flour in water, or 
four oimces of water (one half cup) to eight of flour (two cups), 
will usually be about the right proportion for plain pastry. A 
small quantity of baking-powder insures lightness, but it is not 
essential to the product of an expert. In siunmertime ice is 
needed to chill puff-paste, before it is sent to the oven; at other 
times avoid its use if possible. A marble slab, firmly set, offers 
the best "field of operations." A square of sailcloth and a rolling 
pin, fitted with a stockinet cover, both lightly dredged with flour, 
are good substitutes; but, lacking these, a perfectly smooth hard- 
wood board will suffice. The rolling pin should be made with 
movable ends. A flour dredger, a knffe for mixing, and a chopping 
bowl and knife complete the list of needful utensils. 

KEEPING PASTRY 

Any kind of paste will keep uncooked a day or two, longer at 
some seasons, if it be set aside in a cool place. If baked by itself 
(without a filling) cooked pastry will keep several days in a dry 
place. Before serving reheat with care and it wiU present the 
crispness and freshness of pastry just baked. 

PLAIN PASTRY (CHOPPED PASTE) 

3 cups of flour. J teaspoonful of baking-powder. 

i teaspoonful salt. i cup of shortening. 

I to J cup of water. 



4^ PRACTICAL COOKING AND SERVING 

Sift the flour, salt, and baJking-powder into a chopping bowl. 
Flour the blade of the chopping knife and chop the shortenmg into 
the flour, being very careful to keep the flour between the blade of 
the knife and the shortening as much as possible. When the mixture 
looks like meal, each little particle of fat being coated with flour, 
add, gradually, cold water enough to make a paste that is not 
crumbly, but sticks together without adhering to the knife or bowl. 
If preferred, turn the ingredients, after chopping, into an earthen 
mixing bowl. A case knife is preferable for mixing paste. When 
the paste rolled with a knife into a ball has taken up all the particles 
of dough or flour on the sides of the bowl, turn on to the board 
lightly dredged mth flour, roU about in the flour with the knife, 
then pat with the rolling pin into a rectangular shape and roll out 
to the thickness required. Do not allow the paste to stick to the 
board or the roller. If the mass slides on the board it will not stick. 
Dust the board or the paste with flour when necessary, but use no 
more flour than is absolutely required. Use this paste at once; or 
roll into one long strip, then fold so as to make three layers, turn 
halfway around so that the open end may lie facing the operator, 
and roU out again into a long strip, fold, and turn as before. This 
process may be repeated. If the paste be closely covered and set 
aside, it may be manipulated, after some hours, even more easily 
than when first made. 

FLAKY PASTRY 

3 cups of flour. J cup of shortemng. 

i teaspoonful of salt. | to f cup of water. 

i cup of washed butter. 

Wash the butter and set aside as for puff-paste. With a knife or 
the tips of the fingers work the half cup of shortening into tie flour 
and salt. When the mixture looks like meal, add the cold water, 
gradually, and with a knife mix to a paste as in plain pastry; knead 
slightly, cover and let stand five minutes, then pat with the rolling 
pin and roll out into a rectangular sheet. Fold in the butter as in 
puff-paste, and give the paste two or three "turns," allowing it to 
stand five minutes between each turn. This pastry may be used 
at once. If set away for future use cover closely to exclude the 
air and avoid the forming of a crust. 

CREAM PASTRY (FOR ONE LARGE PIE) 

i teaspoonful of baking-powder, or li cups of floiur. 

J teaspoonful of soda. i to f cup of thick cream. 

^ Ublespoonfuls of washed butter, f teaspoonful of salt. 



PIE MAKING 437 

If the cream be sweet, use the baking-powder, if sour, use the 
soda. Sift the flour, salt, and leavening agent together; stir in 
enough cream to make a paste as described above. Take out rather 
more than half the paste, knead slightly tihen pat, and roll out to 
fit the pie tin. Knead the rest of the paste slightly, roll out into a 
rectangular sheet, and spread with the washed butter. Fold the 
first third of the paste over the second third, the last over the others, 
and pat and roll out. Repeat the folding and rolling two or three 
times. Then chill and roll to fit the plate. Do not begin to put 
the pie together until the upper crust has been prepared and chilled. 

CREAM PASTRY (FOR SMALL MEAT PIES, ETC.) 

3 cups of flour. Shortening. 

i teaspoonful of salt. Cream as needed, or 

i teaspoonful of baking-powder. Yolks of two eggs and milk as needed. 
i cup of butter or other shortening. 

Sift together the flour, salt, and baking-powder; with the tips of 
the fingers, or a knife, work the shortening into the flour, then 
mix to a dough with cream or with the yolks of the eggs, beatien 
and diluted with milk. Cover the outside of the tins, which should 
flare somewhat, with paste, and prick with a fork. Shape covers; 
decorate with bits of paste, brush the under side of the decorations 
with water and put in place and bake; remove from the tins, fill, 
put the cover in place and serve. 

POTATO PASTRY (FOR MEAT PIES) 

2 cups of flour. i cup of shortening. 

i teaspoonful of salt. i cup of cold mashed potatoes. 

2 teaspoonfuls of baking-powder. Milk as needed. 

Sift together the flour, salt, and baking powder; with the tips of 
the fingers, or a knife, work in the shortening, then the mashed 
potato; add milk to make a soft dough; turn on to a floured board, 
handle as little as possible, pat and roll out to fit the top of a dish 
filled with cooked meat, prepared for a meat pie. If desired the 
dish may be lined with the pastry and brushed over with the white 
of egg before the meat is put in place. Roll the pastry about one 
fourth or three eighths an inch thick. 

PIE MAKING 

Use a perforated pie plate of tin or agate ware. Roll out a por- 
tion of paste, prepared by one of the preceding recipes, into a 



438 PRACTICAL COOKING AND SERVING 

circular piece one eighth an inch thick and a little larger than the 
plate; put the paste on the tin so as to exclude air from beneath. 
Do not stretch the paste; if it shrinks, so that it does not cover the 
plate loosely, roll again into a thinner sheet, as the paste will shrink 
even more when put into the oven. Put in the filling, brush over 
the edge of the pastry with cold water and spread a second round of 
paste, cut a little larger than the pie plate, loosely over the filling; 
lightly press the edge upon the moistened edge of the first paste and 
trim if needed. Cut several slits in the top crust before putting it in 
place, to supply a vent for the steam while cooking. Bake ui a 
slow oven from thirty-five to forty-five minutes. The pastry needs 
be well browned. If a glaze be desired, beat the yolk of an egg, add 
a tablespoonful of water and half a tablespoonful of sugar and 
beat again. Dip a soft brush into this mixture, lightly brush over 
the top crust and return to the oven; or this may be done before 
the pie is set into the oven. When desired a rim, a long strip of 
paste three fourths an inch wide, may be placed loosely between the 
two crusts. Brush the edge of the under crust with cold water 
before putting on the rim, also the rim before laying the upper 
crust; press together lightly. 



PIE WITH ONE CRUST 

Paste for a custard, ptunpkin or squash pie needs be mixed quite 
stiff. Cut the paste nearly an inch larger than for the under crust 
of a pie with two crusts. Spread upoft the plate as before — always 
using a perforated tin — then fold under the edge of the paste all 
the way round, so that, when the double fold is brought to an up- 
right position, the cut edge will meet the plate. This double fold 
of paste will be larger or fuller than the plate and may be fluted 
with the thumb and finger, taking care to press each "flute" close 
to the plate at the bottom. Many cooks prefer suet, or part cot- 
tolene and part suet, for a crust of this kmd, as a firm paste will 
best hold a given shape. Fill the crust with the prepared filling 
and bake as before. 



PIE WITH ONE CRUST, NO. 2 

Sometimes the crust may be baked and then filled with a cooked 
filling. Some of the features that make pastry objectionable are 



"MOTHER'S APPLE PIE" 439 

thereby obviated. Invert a perforated pie plate, and covct the 
outside with pastry, cut to fit the plate; trim if needed and set on a 
tin sheet to keep the edge of the paste from touching the floor of 
the oven; prick the top of the crust with a fork, that it may rise 
evenly, and bake about fifteen minutes, or imtil thoroughly cooked. 
Slip the crust from the outside, and put in place as an under crust. 
Put in the cooked filling, ornament with figures cut from pastry 
and baked, or cover with a round of crust baked separately, or 
with a meringue. 

APPLE AND PEACH PIES 

To prepare fresh apples or peaches for pies with two crusts, pare 
the fruit and cut in sUces; mix the sugar, salt and spices, if used, 
and sprinkle over the apples in the pie; dot here and there with 
bits of butter. From half to a whole cup of sugar, according to 
size of plate and tartness of fruit, will be needed. Dried or evap- 
orated fruit needs be soaked in cold water over night, then cooked 
quickly in hot water. For putting the pies together, see General 
Directions, pages 437 and 438. 

ETHERIAL APPLE PIE. RUSSIAN RECIPE 
(ALINE P. DELANO) 

Bake eight large tart apples, pass them through a sieve into s 
large bowl, chill, then add three fourths cup of sugar and the 
whites of five eggs, beaten dry, with a few grains of salt. Beat the 
mixture until very white and light and bake in a buttered pudding 
dish about twenty minutes. Serve hot with cream and sugar. 
Cooked prunes, apricots, peaches or berries, passed through a 
sieve, may be substituted for the apples. From one fourth to one 
half a pound of prunes will be needed; the quantity is largely a 
matter of taste. The same quantity of chopped dates or figs, 
stewed with a little water, may be used. 

"MOTHER'S APPLE PIE" 

Fill the space between the crusts with apples, sliced thin, round- 
ing up the slices so as to make a very fidl pie; add two or three 
tablespoonfuls of water and bake in a slow oven. When done, with 
a sharp knife, cut aroimd the pie between the two crusts and care- 
fully Uit off the upper crust. To the apples add half a cup or more 
of sugar, a few grains of salt, a tablespoonful of butter, and a grat- 



440 PRACTICAL CXX)KING AND SERVING 

ing of nutmeg; mix thoroughly with a silver spoon or knife, spread 
evenly over flie crust, replace the upper crust, pressing it down to 
meet the apple, if necessary, and sift powdered sugar over the top. 
Serve when slightly cooled with cream and sugar. 

PRUNE PIE. (CHICOPEE, MASS., RECIPE) 

i pound of prunes. The juice of half a lemon. 

J cup of sugar. J teaspoonful of salt. 

2 tablespoonfuls of butter. 2 tablespoonfuls of flour. 

Let the primes soak in cold water over night; stew until tender, 
let cool, and remove the stones. Arrange them in the crust, add 
the sugar, butter, lemon juice, salt, flour, and juice from the prunes, 
which should have been reduced in cooking the prunes. Three 
fourths cup of sugar is better. 

QREEN T04UT0 PIE 

Greoi tomatoes. The juice of haii a. lemoo. 

§ cup or more of sugar. i tableepoonful of butter. 

A few grains of salt 

Slice the tomatoes into the under crust, add the other ingredients, 
cover with past« and cook as an apple pie. 

CRANBERRY PIE 

Beat two eggs imtil whites and yolks are well mixed; beat into 
these one cup of sugar, and then one cup of cranberries, cut in 
halves, and a scant half a teaspoonful of salt. Bake with two 
crusts. 

CRANBERRY PIE OR MOCK CHERRY PIE 

CSiop together one cup of cranberries and half a cup of raisiufi; 
add one cup of sugar and two tabl^poonfuls of flour, mixed to- 
geth«r, then half a cup of cold water. Bake with two crusts. 

CRANBERRY PIE, NO. 2 

Mix one fourth cup of cornstarch with two cups of sugar; pour 
over one cup of boiling water and stir until boiling, then add half a 
cup of molasses, half a teaspoonful of salt, one tablespoonful of 
butter, and one quart of cranberries, chopped fine. Bake with 



LEMON FANCBONltf IB 441 

two crusts. This quantity will suffice for two pies. Or cook the 
filling fifteen minutes and finish as "Pie with One Crust, No. 2," 
page 438. 

PINEAPPLE PIE (TWO CRUSTS) 

Mix together thoroughly one fourth cup of flour and three 
fourths cup of sugar; add one cup of grated pulp and juice of 
pineapple; stir and cook until the mixture boils and becomes thick, 
then remove from the fire and add one egg, well beaten. 

PINEAPPLE FANCHONETTES (RICH) 

Beat together three eggs, one fourth teaspoonful of salt, two 
thirds cup of sugar, half a cup of grated pineapple, and the grated 
rind and juice of half a lemon; turn the mixture into patty pans 
lined with plain pastry, and bake in a moderate oven. When partly 
cold remove from the pans, co^r with a meringue and retxun to the 
oven about eight minutes. Fit the paste to one pan, remove and 
cut from paper an exact pattern, by which the others may be cut. 
If small fluted tins are used, press the paste lightly, but closely, to 
the tin, so that when removed from the tins the paste will be per- 
fect in shape. Tins for pastry do not require to be buttered or 
oiled. For lemon fanchonettes use half a cup of lemon juice. 

LEMON FANCHONETTES 

Invert "patty pans" and cover the outside with plain or puff- 
paste; prick the paste on the top and sides with a fork, set the small 
tins on a baking-sheet and thoroughly bake the crust. Remove 
from the tins and fill with lemon filling. Beat the whites of two 
eggs until dry, add gradually two tablespoonf uls of powdered sugar, 
then fold in lightly two tablespoonf uls of powdered sugar; spread 
the meringue over the tops of the fanchonettes. Brown delicately 
in a very slow oven. 

LEMON FILLING (FOR FANCHONETTES) 

Moisten two tablespoonfuls and a half of cornstarch with a 
little cold water and stir into a cup of boiling water; let boil two or 
three minutes, then cook over hot water (double-boiler)ten minutes; 
add a teaspoonful of butter and a cup of sugar; remove the mixture 
from the fire, add the juice of a large lemon (grated rind also, if 
desired) and the yolks of two eggs, well beaten. 



442 PRACTICAL COOKING AND SERVING 

LEMON CUSTARD PIE 

Beat the yolks of three eggs imtU light and thick; add gradually 
one cup of fine granulated sugar and, one at a time, the unbeaten 
whites of two eggs. Beat one fourth cup of butter to a cream and 
add to this, gradually, the egg mixture, also the juice of two small 
lemons, together with the grated rind of one. Cook, stirring 
constantly, over hot water until the mixture thickens; set aside 
to cool, while the crust is baked over an inverted tin plate. Prick 
the paste here and there with a fork, that it may rise evenly. When 
baked slide from the tin on to a plate, pour in the filling, cover with 
a meringue, and serve when thoroughly cold. 

ORANGE PIE. (MRS. COL. DIMON) 

Cream one fourth cup of butter; add three fourths cup of 
sugar, the juice of an orange and half the grated rind, together 
with the juice of half a lemon; beat until light, then add iJie beaten 
yolks of three eggs and the white of one, beaten until light. Bake 
with one crust. When partly cooled cover with a meringue made 
of the stifiE-beaten whites of two eggs, to which three level table- 
spoonfuls of powdered sugar have been added gradually, and then 
two tablespoonfuls of sugar folded in. Brown delicately in the 
oven. 

FILLING FOR PUMPKIN PIE 

Select a sweet pumpkin; they are small in size, and of a deep 
yellow color. Cut in halves, remove the seeds, cut in rings, remove 
the rind, and cut in small pieces. Steam until the pumpkin is 
soft and the water nearly evaporated. A slow fire is needed for 
the last part of the process, which is quite lengthy. Press the pulp 
through a sieve. To each cup and a half of the prepared pumpkin 
add one cup of milk and half a cup of rich, sweet cream, scalded, one 
egg, well beaten, a generous half cup of sugar, and one fourth 
teaspoonful, each, of salt and mace. Mix together- thoroughly. 
Bake slowly. 

PUMPKIN FANCHONETTES 

Mix together one cup and a half of dry, sifted pumpkin, half a 
cup of sugar, two eggs, slightly beaten, two tablespoonfuls of 
molasses, one tablespoonful of ginger, two tablespoonfuls of melted 
butter, one teaspoonful of cinnamon, a scant half a teaspoonful of 



RHUBARB PIE 443 

salt and one cup of rich milk. Four into small tins, lined vith 
pastry, and bake about twenty-five minutes. If baked as a pie 
forty-five minutes in the oven will be needed. 

SQUASH PIE. (MRS. TRACEY, N. Y.) 

I cup of sifted squash. J teaspoonful of salt. 

I cup of sugar. i cup of double cream. 

Cinnamon, ginger, mace or 3 eggs beaten without separating. 

Nutmeg as desired. 4 tablespoonfuls of brandy 

Mix the ingredients and bake in a plate lined with puff-paste. 
Reheat before serving. 

SQUASH PIE, NO. 2 

Mix together one cup of steamed and strained squash, half a 
cup, each, of milk and cream, half a cup of sugar, half a teaspoonful 
of salt, one fourth teaspoonful of mace, or cinnamon, and one 
whole egg and the yolk of another, or half a cup of cracker crumbs. 
Bake in a plate, lined with pastry, about forty minutes. 

CUSTARD PIE 

Beat four eggs until a spoonful can be held; add half a teaspoon- 
ful of salt and two thirds cup of sugar, beat again and when well 
mixed beat in two cups and a half of milk. Turn into a deep plate, 
lined with pastry as for pumpkin pie. Bake in a slow oven until 
the custard is firm in the centre. 

FIQ PIE 

Cook half a pound of figs, cooked and chopped fine, with the 
water in which they were cooked, reduced to half a cup, and half 
a cup of cider, until smooth; turn into a plate lined with pastry; 
when baked cover with a meringue and return to the oven to cook 
the meringue. Boiled cider or lemon juice may be used instead of 
the uncooked cider. A little sugar may be required in some 

cases. 

RHUBARB PIE 

Bake the crust on an inverted pie plate (see page 438). To pre- 
pare the fillin g, cut the rhubarb into inch lengths; put a layer into 
a saucepan and sprinkle with sugar; add other layers of rhubarb 



444 PRACTICAL COOKING AND SERVING 

and sugar and cxiok till tender using one cup of sugar to each 
pound of rhubarb. To each scant pint of cooked rhubarb add the 
juice of half a lemon and the well-beaten yolks of two eggs; pour 
the mixture into the baked crust, and set in the oven until the eggs 
have thickened the mixture. Spread a meringue made of the two 
whites of eggs over the top of the rhubarb and brown delicately in 

the oven. 

BERRY PIES (FRESH BERRIES) 

To a scant pint of berries add two tablespoonfuls of flour, half 
a cup or more of sugar, and a scant half a teaspoonful of salt; roix 
and put into the plate lined with pastry; add bits of butter here 
and there, finish with a second crust and set to cook in a hot oven. 
All pies should be started in a hot oven, to cook the imder crust 
before it becomes moistened, then reduce the heat. Thus cooked, 
if the lower crust lie loosely on the plate, and the upper crust is not 
stretched over the filling, the juice will not run out. 

BERRY PIES (PRESERVED FRUIT) 

Pies xdth canned berries are usually made in the same way as 
those with fresh fruit. When preserves are used, the pastry, either 
plain or puff-paste, should be cooked before the filling is added. 

DATE PIE 

Remove the seeds from the dates; stew in a small quantity of 
water imtil soft enough to strain through a colander. To one cup 
and a half of date pulp, add one egg, beaten slightly, a scant hatt 
teaspoonful, each, of salt and cinnamon, and one cup and a half of 
milk. Bake with an imder crust only. 

MIXTURE FOR MINCE PIES 

4 pounds of cooked beef, chopped 2 pounds of suet, chopped fine. 

fine. By measure, twice the quantity of 
I pound of sugar. chopped apple. 

I quart of molasses. 3 pints of boiled cider. 

4 quinces, chopped fine, or J pound of citron, cut fine, 

a glasses of quince jelly. 2 pounds of currants. 

3 pounds of large seedless raisins. 2 lemons, juice and grated rind. 

6 oranges, juice and grated rind. i grated nutmeg. 

I tablespoonful, each, of ground i teaspoonful of ground cloves. 

cinnamon and mace, About two tablespoonfuls of salt, i 



PUFF-PASTE 44S 

Let the meat cool in the water in which it waa cooked; add the 
other ingredients and, if more liquid is needed, use the broth from 
the meat. Fill the crust without previously cooking the mixtiu:e. 
Heat the rest of the mixture gradually, stirring often; let simmer 
an hour, then store in fruit jars as canned fruit. Puff-paste is 
quite often used for the upper crust of mince pies. When baked, 
brush over the crust with yolk of egg diluted with a little milk, 
sprinkle with sugar and return to the oven to glaze. Bake a gen- 
erous hour. 

MINCE MEAT 

3 pounds of uncooked steak, top of 2 tablespoonfuls of cinnamon, 
the round. i^ pounds of kidney suet. 

5 pounds of pared and cored i teaspoonful of cloves. 

apples. I pound of raisins. 

2 tablespoonfuls of mace. i pound of currants. 

I tablespoonful of salt. 3 pints of boiled cider. 

li pints of molasses. i potmd of sugar. 

i pound of citron. i nutmeg. 

6 oranges. 2 lemons. 

Syrup from sweet pickle jar, jelly and preserves ad libitum. 

Pass the meat, the suet, and the apples through the food chopper, 
and add the other ingredients: the raisins seeded, currants cleaned, 
and citron cut in thin slices. Use the grated rind and juice of the 
oranges. Mix thoroughly. Make up several pieswithout previ- 
ously cooking the mixture. Bake an hour in a moderate oven. 
Scald and store the remainder in fruit jars. 

PUFF-PASTE 

Wash thoroughly a mixing bowl, and the hands, or a wooden 
spatula, first in hot, then in cold water. Fill die bowl with cold 
water or let stand under the faucet and work in the water half a 
potmd, or one cup, of butter, untU it becomes smooth and pliable; 
then pat, until it is absolutely free from water, and shape into a 
flat, square cake. If the room be cool, do not chiU the butter on 
Ice, since the use of ice is to be avoided if possible. Sift together 
' half a pound, or two cups, of flour and one fourth teaspoonful of 
salt; reserve two spoonfuls of flour in the dredger for dusting the 
board, mix the flour to a dough, toss on the board and knead until 
smooth and elastic; cover and let stand from three to five minutes, 
then pat and roll out into a rectangular shape. 



446 



PRACTICAL CCX)KING AND SERVING 



Put the piece of butter in the centre of the lower half of the paste 
and fold the other half over it, letting the edge "a" fall on "b." 
Press the edges together closely on the open side and ends to keep 









, 




Butter 





Fig. I 

in the air. Figure 2 now represents the paste; 
the butter beneath a layer of paste. 



represents 



a 



Fig. 2 

Fold the end marked " i " under, and the end marked " 2 " over 
the paste, enclosing the butter, and press the edges together 
closely. Cover and let stand from three to five minutes. Turn 
the paste halfway round, pat gently with the pin, thus pressing 
the paste together in ridges and breaking up into smaller bubbles 
the enclosed air; roll out into a long strip, keeping the butter en- 
closed in the paste and the ends and sides even, as herein, in large 
measure, lies the success of the undertaking. 




Figs 



BAKING PUFF-PASTE 447 

over "3," and "2" over "i," making 
three even layers with straight edges; press the edges together and 
turn the paste halfway round, so as to roll in the opposite direction. 
Since the butter was enclosed, the paste has been rolled into a long 
strip and folded "in three." This rolling and folding is called 
"giving it one turn." Repeat until the paste has been given six 
turns. Each time, before rolling the paste, turn it halfway round, 
having an open end toward you, so as to roll the paste from a 
diSerent side each time. Cut out as desired, and let chill thor- 
oughly on ice; it will take about half an hour. Bake on the lower 
floor of the oven. 

This gives a pastry in which the layers are very distinct. If two 
tablespoonfuls of butter be worked into the flour before the water 
is added, a tender crust will result; but the layers will not be dis- 
tinct as by the first method. In rolling out the paste, take care 
lest the butter penetrate the dough. As long as the paste slips 
upon the board or slab, it is in good condition. Never roll back 
and forth, as the motion will break the bubbles of air, which are to 
give the paste its lightness. The folding of the paste gives the 
layers; the cold air enclosed, on expanding in the heat of the oven, 
gives the lightness. 

If the room be cool, this condition may be easily secured; in 
winter the paste may be quickly made, and without the use of ice. 
But if the paste does not slip on the slab and shows signs of soften- 
ing, it should be folded in a napkin and chilled in a pan set between 
two pans of ice. Having been chilled once, it will require chilling 
between each two " turns," or, in the case of a novice, after each 
turn. 

BAKING PUFF-PASTE 

Ice-cold pastry and a very hot oven, especially on the bottom, are 
prime requisites when light puff-paste is the article under con- 
sideration. When properly made and set upon the hot floor of the 
oven, the sudden expansion of the cold air enclosed between the 
layers sends up the paste. The top of the paste needs be protected 
from the heat above by a paper or sheet of tin, until the paste has 
attained its full height. Paste, cut one fourUi an inch thick, should 
rise about two inches in height. Turn, if necessary, that it may 
rise evenly. To avoid burning on the bottom, when tiie paste is 
well risen, very gently push a second sheet under that on which the 
paste is baking. 



448 PBACTICAL COOKING AND SERVING 

SMAPINQ AND BAKING VOL-AU-VENTS 

Vol-au-vents are generally shaped in one of three ways, each of 
which has its advocates. 

VOL-AU=VENT WITH RIM 

Have the paste rolled out into a sheet half an inch thick; with a 
charlotte mould as a pattern mark out upon it an oval of the size 
desired; then with a sharp knife, dipped in hot water, cut out the 
pastry, lay on a piece of double paper on a baking-sheet. Cut out 
a second piece of paste of same iJiickness and size; then, with a 
small charlotte mould as guide, cut out the centre, leaving a rim 
an inch and a quarter wide; brush the edge of the first paste with 
cold water and press the rim upon it. Set aside to chill. Bake 
about an hour. (See Baking of Puff-Paste.) Roll out the pieces, 
cut out in making the rim, to the size of the other pieces of paste, 
giving it the same shape; ornament this with figures cut from the 
trimmings and brush over the imder side of each bit of paste with 
water before pressing it in place; chill and bake about twenty-five 
minutes. This will serve for a cover. 

VOL-AU-VENT BAKED IN ONE PIECE 

Roll the paste to the thickness of one inch nearly, and cut out 
in the shape desired; then with the point of a sharp knife, wet in 
hot water, cut halfway through, an inch and a qaurter from the 
edge, all around the paste; brush the top with beaten yolk of egg, 
or beaten egg, chill and bake. Remove the centre carefully and 
set aside. Serve with or without this piece as the cover. Care- 
fully remove any uncooked paste before filling the vol-au-vent. 

VOL-AU-VENT BAKED OVER A FORM 

For a large vol-au-vent make two poimds of puff-paste, using 
three fourths pound of butter to a pound of floxir. Roll one third 
of this into a sheet (oval or round as suits the fancy) one third an 
inch thick, and trim to the desired shape and size. Scallop the 
edge or leave it plain. Put the paste upon the baking-sheet and 
spread over it a large piece of cheesecloth. Roll excelsior into 
small balls and place Siese closely together on the cloth, about three 
inches from the edge, one layer above another, and each layer 



PATTY SHELLS 44S) 

smaller than the one below, to give shape to the vol-au-vent. Pin 
the cloth smoothly about these, then roll out the rest of the paste 
into a sheet one fourth an inch thick. Cut off two or three^ourth 
inch ribbons of paste, also crescent and diamond shaped pieces for 
decoration, and roll the rest of the paste a little thinner, then spread 
it over the cloth filled with excelsior — first lightly scoring the paste 
all round about six inches from the centre to indicate a cover — 
trim the paste to meet loosely the under crust, brush with water 
and press the upper crust firmly upon it. Brush the crust on both 
sides of scoring with cold water, and press upon it the ribbons of 
paste. Brush the under sides of the crescent and diamond shaped 
pieces of cold water, and put them in place inside of the ribbons. 
Let chill half an hour on ice, then put into a hot oven, protecting 
the top of the pie. When well risen, reduce the temperature of 
the oven and bake, in all, aboiit forty minutes. When cooled 
slightly, with a sharp knife cut around the crust, in the scorings 
between the ribbons, and take off the cover. Draw the pin from 
the cloth, and remove the excelsior, the doth and aay uncooked 
paste. When ready to serve, reheat and fill with chicken or game 
heated in a hot sauce. Chicken may be in large pieces, from which 
the bones have been taken, or in cubes of the size used in filling 
patty cases. Three chickens will be needed to fill a pie of this size. 
If the pie is to be served cold, it may be fiUed with bits of chicken 
and aspic jelly. The jeUy should be cold, but not quite set, when 
it is turned into the pie alternately with the meat. Cubes of toAgue 
and cooked mushrooms may also be added. 

PATTY SHELLS 

Roll the paste to one fourth an inch in thlckneee; cut into rounds 
with a fiuted or plain cutter, dipped in Soxa; cut out the centres 
from half the rounds, brush over the edges of the whole rounds 
with cold water and preee the rings upon them; dilU on ice or in a 
cool pkoe and bake about twenty-five minuter (See Baking of 
Puff-Paste.) Bake the centres cut from the rings for covers. 
French patty cutters are purchasable that will give a dean, sharp 
cut (one edge cuts the rounds, the other the centres giving the 
rings). The paste may be rolled half an inch thick; cut in rounds, 
then cut halfway through these with the small cutter. When 
baked lift off the inner paste for a cover and remove any uncooked 
paste heaeath b^ore fining. 



450 PRACTICAL COOKING AND SERVING 

ORANQE CROUTONS 

Cut small rounds from puff-paste, chill and bake; spread orange 
curd between each two, sandwich fashion: sprinkle the top with 
powdered sugar or cover with confectioner's or water frosting. 
(Page 424.) 

ORANQE CURD 

J cup of butter. i cup of sugar. 

The juice and grated rind of one 2 ounces of candied orange peel if 
orange. desired. 

The yolks of three eggs. 

Melt the sugar and butter; add the juice and grated rind, and 
when hot stir gradually into the yolks, beaten thick; stir and cook 
until the mixture thickens, use hot or cold. 

BANBURY TARTS 

I cup of raisins. i cup of sugar. 

} pound of citron. The juice and grated rind of one 

1 egg. lemon. 

Stone the raisins and chop with the citron very fine; add the 
grated rind and juice of the lemon, also the sugar, crumbs and egg, 
slightly beaten. 

Roll puff-paste one eighth an inch thick and cut in rounds be- 
tween three and four inches in diameter. Put a little of the mixture 
on each piece; moisten one half the edge with cold water and fold 
over the pastiy , pressing the dry edge upon the half that is moist- 
ened very closely. Bake about twenty-five minutes in a slow oven. 
A cracker, pounded fine, and the juice (only) of a second lemon 
may be added. This gives a less rich mixture. 

LADY>LOCKS 

Roll puff-paste one eighth an inch thick and cut in long strips 
three fourths an inch wide; wind around wooden lady-lock sticks 
or forms, leaving a narrow space between the lines of paste; trim 
the ends even with the sticks. Bake on a tin in a slow oven; re- 
move the curls from the sticks and when cool fill with whipped 
cream, sweetened and Savored before whipping. 



MIRLITONS 4SI 

VIENNA WHIPPED CREAM ROLL. (COOK'S RESTAURANT) 

Roll puff-paste into strips four inches wide. Butter tin or bard- 
wood cylinders about one inch in diameter and four inches long. 
Cut the strips of paste into pieces to fit the cylinders. Brush over 
one side of each piece of paste with white of egg or water, and press 
this side upon the first upon the cylinder, so that when baked 
and removed from the tin hollow cylinders of paste will be formed. 
Bake on a tin sheet in a slow oven. When cold cover the outside 
with chocolate frosting (confectioner's, boiled, or fondant) and 
when ready to serve fill the centres with sweetened and flavored 
cream, beaten stiff. 

CHEESE BOUCH^ES 

Bake small patties of puff-paste, about an inch and a half in 
diameter. When ready to serve, reheat and fill with the following 
cheese preparation: Sprinkle the cheese with fine-chopped parsley 
and replace the covers (pieces of paste cut out to form the patties, 
or the centres removed after the patties are baked). Serve very 
hot as a "savory," either at the beginning or end of dinner. 

CREAM CHEESE FOR BOUCHE'ES 

Let half a cup of Bechamel sauce (white sauce with chicken stock 
and cream, half and half, as the liquid), half a cup of cream, a few 
grains of paprika, and one fourth pound of Cheddar or Gruyere 
cheese, sliced very thin, stand over hot water until the cheese is 
melted, then beat thoroughly, and serve at once as filling for 
bouchees. The addition of one or two beaten yolks of eggi 
gives a thicker filling. 

MIRLITONS 

The yolks of four eggs. i teaspoonful of salt. 

The whites of two eggs. i teaspoonful of orange extract. 

} cup of sugar. i cup of melted butter. 

} pound of crushed macaroons. Powdered sugar. 

Puff-paste. 

Beat the yolks, add the sugar, salt, macaroons, extract, and 
melted butter, then the whites of the eggs, beaten until foamy. 
Tiun into about thirty tartlet moulds lined with puff-paste, sift 
powdered sugar over lie top and bake in a slow oven. Serve hoj 
or cold. 



4S« PRACTICAL COOKING AND SERVING 

STRAWBERRY VOL-AU-VENT 

Roll half a pound of puff-paste into a thin sheet. Cut out an 
oval piece for a bottom and three oval rims, prick with a fork, chill 
and bake as usual. When baked spread the edge of the bottom 
piece lightly with strawberry preserves or meringue and press a 
rim upon it, and so continue imtil the rims are used. Make a 
meringue with the whites of two eggs and one half cup of sugar, 
and with this decorate the edges of the case; sprinkle with sugar 
and return to the oven on a baking-sheet; the heat should be very 
moderate so that the meringue will not take color in less than six 
minutes. When the meringue is delicately browned, remove to a 
serving-dish, and fill the open space with sugared strawberries. 
Other fruit, either cooked or uncooked, may be used and whipped 
cream may be added to the top. The pastry may be kept several 
days after baking, reheating it before filling. 

STRAWBERRY TARTS 

Roll puff-paste trimmings into a sheet one third an inch thick, 
and with a heart-shaped cutter, dipped into hot water, stamp into 
hearts. Score the top of each piece with a small round cutter, 
then prick with a fork, let chill and bake as usual. When baked 
cut out the centres, where they were scored, and fill with sugared 
berries. Decorate with whipped cream. 

STRAWBERRY TARTLETS 

Cut out rounds of puff-paste, and when set in the baking-pan pipe 
a round of chou paste around the edges. . Pridt the paste with a 
fork in several places, then bake as usual. When baked fill the 
centres with fresh strawberries, sugared, or spread with strawberry 
preserves. Garnish with whipped cream. For twelve tartlets use 
half the recipe of chou paste. 

MELBA TARTS 

Make the pastry in the same manner as for strawberry tartlett. 
When baked spread the inside with a thin layer of quince mamuk* 
lade, or use a mixture of two thirds of quince marmalade and one 
third of English cream. CSee page 461.) 



APPLE MERINGUE 4S3 

COFFEE TARTS 

Prepare the pastry as for Melba tarts, and fill the open space 
with coffee cream. Garnish with whipped cream. 

APPLE OR MINCE PIE, WITH APPLE MERINGUE 

Bake an apple or mince pie, prepared in the usual manner, hav- 
ing the upper crust of puff or flaky pastry and rolled out rather thin. 
Shortly before serving, spread over the pie an apple meringue and 
set Ae pie into a very moderate oven to cook the meringue. After 
ten or twelve minutes, increase the heat to color the meringue 
delicately. Serve the pie soon after removal from the oven. 

APPLE MERINGUE 

Peel and grate one large tart apple adding to the pulp, meanwhile, 
a tablespoonful of lemon juice and a cup of sugar. Beat the whites 
of two eggs dry, then gradually beat in the sugar and apple and use 
as indicated above. 



CHAPTER XIX 
Puddings and Dessert Dishes 

"I am glad «bat my Adonis hath a sweet tooth in his head." 

I liquid and 
a. Foundation of Puddings, -j starch or 

' gelatine. 
( lightness, 
6. Eggs added for •< consistency, 
( food valiie. 

c. Fruit or equivalent for flavor. 

d. Suet, butter, cream for richness or whipped cream for lightness. 

, I in foundation or 

e. Sweet m some form as sugar or molasses { 

' sauce. 

f. Garnishes. 

Sweets compose the last course of a dinner or luncheon. In 
this course are included cake, pastry, and hot and cold puddings, 
etc., which Thudicum speaks of as the "forerimner of the dessert." 
In tiiis course also are included custards, charlottes, creams, jellies, 
and ices, in the preparation of the more delicate of which form is 
often placed before substance. The dessert proper includes fruit, 
fresh or preserved, nuts, and bonbons; it is often succeeded by a 
tiny morsel in the nature of a hot or cold savory, or of cheese. 

When swpets are presented, himger has been appeased and the 
dishes should be light in character and elegant in appearance. If 
more than one dish be presented in this course, as it may be at an 
elaborate and formal dinner, the more substantial dish precedes 
the more delicate and the hot precedes the cold dish. 

Puddings in which suet is used are appropriate only after an 
otherwise light meal and during cold weather. These and other 
puddings of similar nature are not in as great demand as formerly, 
the tendency of the time being in favor of more easily digested 
sweets. Those in which cream predominates are especial favorites. 

In the past, the American housewife, as a rule, has paid quite 

454 



GELATINE 455 

as much attention to the sweet as to the substantial part of the 
dinner, but, with our present pronounced leaning toward French 
cookery and bills of fare, we are likely in time to give less promi- 
nence to the sweet course and finish the refection, be it luncheon or 
dinner, with a salad and bit of cheese. The desserts served so often 
in this coimtry, in which cream abounds, are rare in France, also 
in the southern part of the continent. Indeed, except, perhaps, 
among a certain class in Russia, there is no country where food sup- 
plies are generally so lavishly used as in the United States. 

The foundation of hot puddings is liquid and some starchy 
material, as rice, tapioca, cornstarch, cereal, bread crumbs, etc., 
etc. The foundation of most cold puddings is the same; or, instead 
of the starchy principle, gelatine is used to give consistency. To 
any pudding, hot or cold, eggs may be added for lightness or to 
increase the consistency or food value; fruit or its equivalent for 
flavor, suet (in hot), butter or cream for richness; and in cold pud- 
dings cream is also used for lightness. Two ounces of starchy 
material or one ounce of gelatine will thicken a pint of liquid. 

STARCHY MATERIALS 

Cornstarch, rice, tapioca (minute, quick cooking and "tapioca 
exotique "), macaroni, and bread crumbs (stale bread passed through 
a colander) are the principal starchy ingredients in puddings. 
Tapioca is stirred into the hot liquid and is cooked when it becomes 
transparent. 

If grains be used, the pudding is cooked when the grains are 
tender. If arrowroot, cornstarch, rice flour, etc., are used, these, 
mixed smoothly with milk or eveifly with sugar, need be cooked in 
the hot liquid until they clear from the sides of the saucepan. 
Cooked less, though they may jelly when cold, they have an un- 
cooked pasty taste. These puddings, though often cooked in the 
oven, will be smoother and require less attention if they be cooked 
in a double-boiler and then turned into a buttered bakuig dish and 
set into the oven for final cooking. 

GELATINE 

The gelatuies on the market at the present tune are particularly 
good. They are practically odorless when heated; if not select a 
different brand. The granulated gelatines, which may be easily 
and accurately measured, soften in cold water very quicldy and may 



436 PRACTICAL COOKING Al^ SERVING 

then be dissolved in a little hot water or in the hot mixture. In 
cold weather gelatine dishes will set in half an hour if exposed to 
the outer air; in summer ice is essential to quick process, 

CHOCOLATE 

The judicious use of chocolate changes many an otherwise homely 
and unappetizing dessert into a bonne bouche desired by every one. 

Chocolate for use in cooking is bought in half-pound cakes scored 
in eight bars or squares, each one of which represents an ounce. 
Vanilla and cinnamon are the two flavors that best harmonize with 
chocolate. Stick cinnamon, scalded in the milk, and used as the 
foundation of any dish in which chocolate is to be used, insures 
an added richness and spiciness of flavor that is invariably com- 
mended. Ground cinnamon is often more convenient, but in either 
case let it be of the best grade. Currant jelly, apricot marmalade, 
nuts, and candied fruits, steeped in wine, are palatable additions 
to any dish in which chocolate appears. To use chocolate, put it in 
a saucepan over hot water, and when melted add a tablespoonful 
or more of sugar and two or three of boiling water, and stir and 
boil until a smooth glossy liquid is formed, then add to hot milk or 
other ingredients. 

RAISINS AND CURRANTS 

Raisins may be stoned with a utensil made for the purpose, or 
with a pair of scissors. They stone more easily after soaking in 
water a few moments. Sultanas are without seeds and excellent 
in flavor. 

FLAVORING 

Extract and wines used for flavoring, whenever possible, should 
be added to the preparation after it has been cooked and become 
cold. Flavors may be considered as luxuries, but used occasionally 
they afford pleasiure and a simple means of varying an oftentimes 
monotonous dietary. Only extracts made from fruits and nuts, 
or the real vanilla bean, should be used. All others are harmful. 
Select the goods of reliable and well known manufacturers, and use 
no others. The vanilla bean is sometimes used instead of the 
extract. Part of a bean is scalded in the liqvud to be flavored, then 
dried and kept for future use. But as the drying needs be done 
thoroughly and with care, lest the bean become sour and mouldy, 
and as uniformity in flavor is not readUy secured, the use of the 



LINING OF CHARLOTTE MOULDS 457 

bean is not advocated. Lemon, orange, rose, and almond extracts 
are made from the corresponding fruits, flower, and nut. Lemon 
and vanilla in combination give a pleasing flavor. Orange and 
almond, or, as some say, vanilla and almond produce a flavor 
resembling pistachio nuts. The proportions are one fourth of the 
latter to three fourths of the former. Cordials as maraschino, 
curajoa and noyau give a delicate and pleasing flavor to any dish 
to which they may be added. Jamaica rum, sherry, and kirsch 
of good quality are much used in cooking. In hot dishes, cooking 
dissipates the small quantity of alcohol which they contain. Of a 
slightly stimulating character these are thought to be of use in 
stimulating a sluggish digestion. Mixed with fruit added to frozen 
desserts they keep the fruit from becoming hard and frozen. Car- 
amel (see page 30) gives an exceedingly pleasant and agreeable 
flavor to custards and creams. The intense heat of hquid caramel 
often causes the milk or cream to whidi it is added, even if scalded, 
to curdle; when these are to be combined it is advisable to pour a 
few spoonfuls of boiling water into the caramel and stir until smooth, 
then pour this into the cream or milk. It is often combined with 
almonds, giving what is called "burnt almond" flavor. Coffee 
extract or, better still, fresh made coffee, is a common flavorer and is 
generally acceptable. Here strength should not be sought for in 
long steeping or boiling. (See Coffee Making.) 

LIST OF GARNISHES FOR DESSERTS, ETC 

Whipped cream. 

Fruit: fresh, pur&s, compote, canned, or candied (maraschino 
cherries, cooked figs, prunes, raisins, etc.). 
Fruit jellies, cut in figures or chopped. 

Ivory jelly (sweetened cream and gelatine) cut in fanciful shapes. 
Angelica, cut in pieces, leaves, stems, etc., (green in color). 
Preserved ginger, whole pieces or slices cut in figures. 
Preserved cb^tnuts, wlrole or in pieces. 
Atmonds, ftoachio nut&, Englidi walnuts, and pecan oute. 

LINING OF MOULDS WITH LADY-FINGERS FOR 
CHARLOTTE MOULDS 

Fit a strip of oiled or paraflSne paper into the mould lengthwise, 
letting the ends hang out over the top; then fit a strip into the mould 
crosswise, letting the ends hang out as before. Ascertain the l^igth 



4S8 PRACTICAL C(X)KING AND SERVING 

of the lady-finger needed to come just to the top of the mould and 
trim them all to this length; put the fingers into the mould on the 
paper with the upper side toward the paper. Let the edges of the 
fingers just meet or leave a uniform space between them. Care- 
fully put a spoonful of the charlotte mixture at the base of each 
finger to hold it in place; straighten the fingers and fill the mould 
with car*. 



CHAPTER XX 
Cold Dessert DishM 

SYNOPSIS OF CHAPTER 

^ _ (simple ]!;!l"''^- 

a. Custard Composition. / " F>rm. 

(starchy addition. Liquid. 

{Simple jellies (fruit juice, wine, etc.). 
Sponges (jellies+whipped white of egg) 
Bavaroises (jeUies+ whipped cream+egg«. 
occasionally). 

..Charlotte Compositions. i Cake+whipped cr^m. 

I Cake+sponges or Bavaroises. 

d. Combination of above. 

e. Syllabubs, Whips, etc. Cream or cream and eggs whipped. 

f. Junkets. Milk thickened with rennet principle. 

CUSTARDS 

Custards are compositions, in which lightly cooked milk and 
eggs predominate; in custard of the first quality nothing else save 
sugar, salt, and flavoring is added. In preparations of inferior 
quality starchy materials take the place of a part of the eggs. 

TWO FORMS OF CUSTARD 

Custards are of two main characteristics — i. e., firm or liquid. 
Firm custards are cooked while standing undisturbed in hot water; 
liquid custards are stirred during the entire process of cooking, 
the dish holding the ingredients standing meanwhile in hot water; 
in both cases the heat required is lower than that of boiling water. 
Custard is properly cooked when the egg is "set" by the heat just 
enough to insure a smooth, tender, jelly-like consistency through ■ 

459 



46o PRACTICAL COOKING AND SERVING 

out. A custard that curdles, or wheys, or is full of holes (eithej 
large or small), has been cooked at too high a temperature. A firm 
custard is cooked when, on touching the centre, it seems lightly set 
and somewhat firm. All custards become more solid on cooling. 

PROPORTION OF EQQ TO MILK 

The degree of firmness to which a firm custard will set in cooking 
depends upon the proportion of eggs and milk; foiu* eggs to a quart 
of milk, or one to each cup of milk, gives a custard of delicate 
consistency; this custard needs be served from the dish or cup in 
which it is baked. For a custard firm enough to tiun from a mould 
the number of eggs needs be multiplied by two. Royal custard, 
which is cut in slices and then stamped into figures, for use in con- 
somme or other clear soup, calls for one egg to each tablespoonful 
of liquid. Whole eggs, whites or yolks of eggs alone, are used in 
custards, but the richest and finest grained custard results when the 
yolks of eggs predominate. A firm custard in which yolks are used 
alone breaks very easily, and it is considered safer, if the custard 
is to be turned from the mould, to bake it in small dariole moulds or 
to include a few whites in the mixture. Two yolks count as one 
egg. In a liquid custard all yolks are preferable, unless the whites, 
beaten until very foamy, be added at the last to give a fluffy tex- 
ture, considered so desirable in some dishes. As eggs are added 
to custards simply for thickening or richness, and not to produce 
lightness, they are beaten but little. 

LIQUID OR BOILED CUSTARD 

I pint of hot milk. J cup of sugar. 

3 to 6 yolks of eggs. | teaspoonful of vanilla. 

i teaspoonful of salt. 

Beat the yolks of eggs slightly; add the sugar and salt and beat 
again; dilute with a little of the hot milk and, when well blended, 
return the whole to the hot milk and cook and stir until the mixture 
thinly coats the spoon; then strain at once into a cold dish. In 
preparing a liquid custard, a double-boiler or its equivalent is a 
positive necessity, and a fine strainer of some kind is essential to 
nice results. The mixture coats the spoon when it is at the con- 
sistency of honey and covers the tip and back of the spoon lightly. 
Add the flavoring when the custard is cold. Custard made with 




UTENSILS FOR CAKE-MAKING. (See page 390.) 




CAKE TINS— SPONGE, LEMON QUEEN, LAYE-^. ETC. 




SPONGE CAKE WITH POTATO FLOUR 



HI 


nn 


^ 


^^B 


^W 


IHI 


^^^^^Mi^^ 


■'•j_^'**i^^r^®*^ 


*w^t^^ 






^3^^^^^^l 


^H^^i.^ xj^;^!^ 


M 


1 


"^Tfiftiiii 




n 



CHRISTMAS WREATHS 




COFFEE ROLLS FROM BRIOCHE 



ENGLISH CREAM 461 

three yolks to a pint of milk is used as a sauce. More yolks are 
required when the custard is to be served in cups. 

BOILED CUSTARD, NO. 2 

I pint of milk. | cup of sugar. 

The yolks of three to six eggs. The whites of three eggs. 

i teaspoonful of salt. i teaspoonful of vanilla extract. 

Prepare the custard as above, and, just before removing from the 
fire, fold in the whites of the eggs, beaten until very foamy, but not 
dry. Caramel, coffee, and chocolate give variety in flavor. 

ENGLISH CREAM (CUSTARD) 

I pint of milk. | teaspoonful of salt. 

The yolks of two or three eggs, § cup of sugar. 

or one whole egg. J teaspoonful of vanilla extract. 

I teaspoonful of cornstarch. 

Mix the cornstarch with a part of the sugar — the quantity of 
cornstarch may be doubled — and stir into tiie hot milk; stir until 
the mixture thickens and then, occasionally, for fifteen minutes. 
Beat the egg, add the sugar and salt and beat again, then stir into 
the hot mixture; let cook a few moments, stirring constantly, until 
the egg seems cooked, then strain and flavor when cold. Stir 
occasionally while cooling to avoid the formation of a crust. 

ENGLISH CREAM (CUSTARD) NO. 3 

(used FOR FILLING ECLAIRS, CREAM CAKES AND PIES) 

I pint of hot milk. s eggs or four yolks of eggs. 

I cup of flour i cup of sugar. 

i cup of sugar J teaspoonful of vanilla. 

i teaspoonful of salt. 

Mix or sift together the flour, salt, and half cup of sugar; dilute 
with the hot milk, then cook and stir over hot water tmtil the 
mixture thickens; then cool, stirring occasionally, for fifteen min- 
utes; beat the egg, add the rest of the sugar and stir into the hot 
mixture; stir until the egg looks cooked, then cool and flavor. One 
fourth cup of clear black coffee may be substituted for the same 
quantity of milk, or an ounce of chocolate, cooked with two table- 
■poonfids, each, of sugar and water, may be added to the milk. 



463 PRACTICAL COOKING AND SERVING 

ST. HONORE CREAM (CUSTARD) 

(for use in ST. HONORE CAKE, CEEAM CAKES, ECLAIRS, EXC.) 
I pint of milk. Grated rind of lemon. 

} cup of flour. The yolks of six eggs. 

1 cup of sugar. The whites of six eggs. 

i teaspoonful of salt. 

Prepare as English cream No. 2, adding the grated rind of lemon 
with the flour and the whites of eggs, beaten stiff, at the last. 

ST. HONORE CAKE 

Cut out a round of pastry, either chopped or flaky, about ten 
inches in diameter, dispose on a baking-sheet and brush over tha 
edge with cold water. Have ready some chou paste. (See Eclairs 
in chapter on Cake.) With a forcing-bag and plain tube half an 
inch in diameter press a circle of chou paste upon the edge of the 
pastry, to form a border; prick the round of pastry with a fork 
and brush over the chou paste with beaten egg. Bake in an oven 
with strong heat below about twenty minutes. Make small roxmd 
cakes with the rest of the paste and bake until they feel light when 
taken in the hand. Boil a cup of sugar and half a cup of water 
to the crack stage (it will be sUghtly yellow or caramel color), dip 
the small cakes, one by one, into the candy and arrange them sym- 
metrically upon the border of the cake; dip preserved cherries, one 
by one, into the hot candy and dispose on the top of each cake. Fill 
the centre with cold St. Honore or frangipanni cream, piling it high 
in the centre. Serve very cold. 

CHOCOLATE CUSTARD WITH SNOW EGOS 

2 ounces of chocolate. "The yolks of six eggs. 

3 tablespoonfuls of sugar. | cup of sugar. 

, 3 tablespoonfuls of boiling water. f teaspoonful of vanilla. 
3 cups of hot milk. Lady-fingers. 

3 teaspoonfuls of cornstarch. Snow eggs (page 474). 

Cook the chocolate, sugar, and water until glossy; add to th& 
hot milk and finish as in recipe for English cream. Use the whites 
of the eggs for the snow eggs. This may be served without the 
lady-fingers in sherbet cups, a snow egg on the top of the custard 
in each cup and the egg sprinkled wiUi candied cherries, chopped 
fine. 



CUP CUSTARDS ' 463 

TIPSY PUDDING 

Cut a stale sponge cake in slices and with them line a glass serv- 
ing-dish; sprinkle the slices with Jamaica rum, or with sherry or 
other wine, then spread over them a layer of jam or preserved fruit; 
add other layers of cake and preserves until the dish is full. Pom: 
over the whole a quart of cold, rich, boiled custard, flavored with 
vanilla. Garnish the dish with whipped cream, meringue or snow 
eggs. Often an ounce of softened gelatine is dissolved in the hot 
custard, and the layers of cake and preserves are congealed in the 
custard; then the rest of the custard is added without cake and, 
before serving, the cream or meringue is added. 

FLOATINQ ISLAND 

The whites of five eggs. i cup of prune, fig, date or other 
} cup of sugar. purfe, or crushed almoods and 

i teaspoonful oi cream-of '^ other nuts, 

tartar. Boiled custard. 

Beat the eggs imtil foamy; add the cream-of-tartar and beat 
until dry, adding meanwhile the fruit or nuts. The fruit should 
have been fine-(±opped and cooked to a smooth puree with a little 
water. Turn the mixture into a large, handsome, well-buttered 
mould and cook in a steamer without boiling the water about twenty 
minutes. The mixture often rises enormously and the mould needs 
be very large. When cold unmould in a deep dish and surround 
with a cold boiled custard. In cooling, the meringue contracts, 
and is unmoulded easily. The texture is very delicate, and the 
flavor, produced by steaming, is peculiar, but most agreeable. 

FIRM CUSTARDS 
CUP CUSTARDS (SERVED IN BAKING DISH) 

4 eggs. A grating of nutmeg. 

f cup of sugar. i quart of milk. 

i teaspoonfiil of salt. 

Beat the eggs until the yolks and whites are well mixed; add the 
sugar, salt, nutmeg, and milk, and stir imtil the sugar is dissolved, 
then strain into buttered cups or a baking dish. Cook standing 
on several folds of paper, or on a trivet untS the centre is firm. 



464 PRACTICAL COOKING AND SERVING 

MAPLE CUSTARD 

6 whole eggs, or three whole eggs i teaspoonful of salt, 
and six yolks. 3 cups of milk. 

^ cup of heavy maple syrup. 

Make and bake as above. Baked in cups, this custard may be 
turned from the cups when cold. 

CHOCOLATE CUSTARD PUDDING 

3 ounces of chocolate. ^ i quart of milk. 

3 tablespoonfuls of sugar. 7 eggs. 

3 tablespoonfuls of hot water. i cup of sugar. 

i teaspoonful of ground cinnamon. § teaspoonful of salt. 

I teaspoonful of vanilla. Sugar and vanilla for meringue. 

Add the sugar, melted chocolate, hot water, and cinnamon, cooked 
until glossy, to the milk; beat the eggs, omitting the whites of 
three, add the cup of sugar, salt, and vanilla and strain into a but- 
tered baking dish. Bake as usual and cover with a meringue made 
of the whites of the eggs, reserved for this puipose, and one tJbird 
cup of powdered sugar. Return to the oven for about eight minutes 
to brown the meringue. Serve cold. 

BAKED CUSTARD RENVERSEE OR CREAM VERSAILLES 

I quart of milk. f teaspoonful of salt. 

8 eggs, or § cup of sugar. 

4 whole eggs and eight yolks. i cup of sugar. 

Cook the cup of sugar in a small saucepan over a hot fire, stirring 
constantly until the sugar melts and becomes light brown in color. 
The sugar, aa it is stirred, will first resemble flake tapioca, then 
gradually melt and become brown. The pan needs be lifted oc- 
casionally, to prevent burning. As soon as the sugar is melted, 
turn into a three-pint mould, or into two moulds of smaller size. 
With a towel in both hands tip the mould from side to side tp coat 
the inside with the caramel. The mould must be handled quickly, 
as the caramel hardens quickly. Set the mould aside, while the 
custard is prepared. The caramel will crackle, but this is no dis- 
advantage, and the mould thus prepared may be kept any length of 
time. Prepare the custard as usual and strain into the mould. 
Bake as any custard, on heavy folds of paper, and surroimd with 



FRIED GUSTARD 465 

hot water. When cold turn from the mould on to the serving- 
dish. The caramel will form a sauce aroimd the custard This is 
one of the most delicious dishes in a cook's repertoire. Two ounces 
of melted chocolate cooked with a little melted sugar and water 
may be added to the milk of which the custard is made. Or the 
caramel may be melted in a little boiling water and used in the 
custard, instead of sugar, thus giving caramel custard. 

CHESTNUT CUSTARD 

I cup of chestnut pur€e. | teaspoonful of vanilla. 

3 eggs. 4 tablespoonluls of sugar for 
I cup of milk. meringue. 

} cup of sugar. 

Add the beaten eggs — omitting the whites of two — gradually, 
to the chestnut pulp (chestnuts cooked and sifted), also the sugar, 
vanilla, and milk, and bake in a buttered mould. Make a meringue 
of the whites of the two eggs, reserved for the purpose, and the 
sugar. Spread over the custard and return to the oven to color 
the meringue. This custard is improved by a sprinkling of chopped 
cherries below the meringue. 

CHESTNUT RENVERSEE 

Bake the above mixture in a mould lined with caramel. (See 
Custard Renversee.) Half a cup of sugar will make caramel 
enough to line a mould for this custard. 

PINEAPPLE CUSTARD 

I pound of grated pineapple. i cup of milk. 

I pound of sugar. 3 eggs. 

I pound of butter. 

Beat the butter to a cream, add the sugar gradually, then the 
beaten eggs, the pineapple, preiiously scalded, and the cup of milk. 
Bake in a moderate oven, either with or without a crust. Serve 
from the dish in which it is baked. 

FRIED CUSTARD 

4 whole eggs. 6 or 8 macaroons. 
The yolks of two eggs. J cup of candied fruit. 

§ cup of sugar. i egg and white bread crumbs. 

I pint of milk. 



466 PRACTICAL COOKING AND SERVING 

Butter and sugar a dozen moulds having about half the height 
of timbale moulds. Six-sided moulds are preferable. Sprinkle 
the bottom of the moulds with the fruit, cut in one fourth inch 
squares and washed in hot water, and cover with a little powdered 
macaroons; strain in a little custard mixture made of the other in- 
gredients, let stand a few moments, then finish filling the moulds. 
Cook as usual surrounded by hot water; when cool, immould, egg- 
and-bread-cnmib and fry a golden color in deep fat. Serve with 
Sabayon sauce. 

JELLIES 

As simple hot puddings are made by thickening nailk or fruit 
juice with a stardiy material, and the more complex varieties, by 
adding eggs, some form of fat, fruit, and flavors, so simple cold 
puddings may be prepared in the same way, and also by thicken- 
ing the liquid with gelatine. When stiff beaten whites of eggs or 
cream are added, a spongy texture is produced and a more complex 
pudding results. Thickening with a starchy material was taken 
up under hot puddings, and we will consider now the thickening of 
liquids with gelatine. In desserts, fruit juice, wine or milk are the 
liquids that are to be jellied. When fresh fruits are employed: (i) 
the juice alone may be used and we have simple fruit jelUes; (2) the 
juice and pulp, freed from seeds and membrane, are used, and the 
resulting dish is called pain, as with strawberries pain de /raises; 
or (3) juice and whole sections of the same or other fruits and nuts 
may be combined in one dish, and we have a macedoine of fruits. 

PROPORTION OF GELATINE TO LIQUID 

It is claimed that two ounces of gelatine — the quantity put up 
in most packages — will jelly two quarts of liquid, but unless one 
has made sure of this by actual trial of the particular brand used, 
It IS safer to allow a little for advertising and cut down the quan- 
tity one cup. In summer also, when comparatively heavy pieces 
of fruit or other material are to be held up in the jelly, allow three 
pmts of liquid to two ounces of gelatine. 

TO BRINQ OUT AND RETAIN FRUIT FLAVORS, ETC. 

More water should form a part of the hquid to be jelUed, when the 
juice, from which the jelly takes its name, is strong in flavor, as in 
fcmon and red raspberry jmces. The characteristic flavor of aU 



LEMON JELLY 467 

jellies made of wine or fruit is accentuated or brought out more 
perfectly, if the juice of a lemon be used for each quart of jelly. In 
the same way jdlies made from many fruit juices are thought to be 
improved, if they be "pointed" with a tablespoonful or two of 
wine. With the exception of pineapple juice, which contains a 
vegetable pepsin that digests proteid substances, and hence needs 
be scalded before it is combined with milk, eggs or gelatine, fruit 
juices when avoidable should not be heated, lest their volatile 
flavor and aroma be lost. If gelatine be heated to the boiling 
point, or even near that point, a disagreeable odor and flavor will 
often be brought out. After having been softened in cold water, 
according to Uie time noted on the package, dissolve by adding it 
to the hot preparation, or by the addition of a little hot water, or 
by setting ^e dish in another filled with hot water. 

USES OF FRUIT AND WINE JELLIES 

Besides their use as dessert dishes, served with cream, custard 
or fruit pur&s, fruit and wine jellies are moulded and used with 
cold desserts in the same manner as aspic jelly is moulded and used 
with entrees. 

DOUBLE MOULDING AND UNMOULDINQ OF JELLIES 

For double moulding and unmoulding of gelatine dishes see page 
250. Jellies and all cold desserts that are not surroimded with 
cream, etc., or garnished in any way, are immoulded on lace paper. 
These papers may be purchased in large or individual sizes. 

RECIPES 

LEMON JELLY 

I ounce (^ package) of i cup of sugar. 

gelatine. i cup of lemon juice. 

i cup of cold water. 2 cups of boiling water. 

Soak the gelatine in the cold water, the time required varies with 
the brand, and add the boiling water and the sugar; stir until dis- 
solved, and when cool add Uie lemon juice. Strain through a 
cheesecloth and use as desired. The thin yellow rind of the lemon 
and an inch of cinnamon bark, one or both, may be steeped in thf 
boiling water for additional flavor, 



468 PRACTICAL COOKING AND SERVING 

ORANGE JELLY 

I ounce (i package) of gelatine. The juice of one lemon. 
I cup of cold water. i pint of orange juice. 

I cup of sugar (scant). i cup of boiling water. 

Prepare as lemon jelly, but strain the liquid before adding the 
orange juice, to retain the little particles of orange pulp. 

WINE JELLY 

I ounce G package of i cup of wine (claret, Madeira, sherry 
gelatine). or champagne). 

1 cup of cold water. The juice of one lemon. 

2 cups of boiling water. i cup of sugar. 

Prepare as lemon jelly. When champagne is used cut down the 
quantity of boiling water to one cup. Cool the liquid before the 
wine is added. 

SAUTERNE JELLY 

I otmce of gelatine. 3 tablespoonfuls of lemon juice. 

§ cup of cold water. ij cups of haut sauteme. 

I J cups of boiling water. Green color paste. 

I cup of sugar. 

Prepare as lemon jelly; add color paste to secure a very delicate 
tint of green. 

COFFEE JELLY 

I ounce of gelatine. I cup of sugar. 

^ cup of cold water. 2 cups of clear, black coffee. 

1 cup of boiling water. 

Do not use liquid coffee that has been left standing on the 
grounds. Let the coffee be freshly made. Cereal coffee makes a 
good jelly, and served with cream is wholesome for children. 

ORANQE JELLY WITH ORANGE SECTIONS (MACEDOINE 
OP ORANGES) 

Make orange jelly. Set a mould in ice and water. Pour in a 
little jelly. When set arrange upon it sections of orange from 
which the seeds have been removed. Dip other sections in liquid 
jelly and place against the chilled sides of the mould. When se* 




B.\NANA SHORTCAKE. (See page 498.) 




MUSHROOM MERIXOUES. (Ser payc 420.) 




SMALL CHOCOLATE CAKES, MARSHMALLOW FROSTING. 

(See page 412. j 



RHUBARB JELI.Y AND BANANA CREAM 469 

add jelly and sections of orange, alternately, until the mould is 
filled. When chilled turn from the mould and serve. 

MACEDOINE OF FRUIT AND NUTS 

Make orange, lemon or wine jelly. Let a few spoonfuls become 
" set " in the bottom of a mould. Arrange upon this a design with 
slices of bananas and blanched almonds, halved. Cover with jelly ; 
add figs and dates, cut in small pieces, and slices of blanched al- 
mond, alternately, with jelly, until the mould is filled. Serve sur- 
rounded with a wreath of whipped cream, sweetened and flavored 
before whipping. 

RHUBARB JELLY 

X pound of rhubarb. Ginger root and lemon peel. 

I cup of sugar. The juice of one lemon. 

I ounce of gelatine. J cup of cold water. 

Cut the rhubarb into pieces an inch in length and put into agate 
baking dish in alternate layers with the sugar; add the yellow peel 
of a lemon, and a piece of ginger root and bake imtil the rhubarb is 
tender, but not broken. Steep the gelatine in the cold water and 
dissolve by setting in a dish of hot water; then strain into the 
rhubarb, add the lemon juice and pour into a mould a little at a 
time, adding more as the preparation stiffens, to avoid the settling 
of the pieces of rhubarb. Preserved ginger, sliced thin, and a little 
ginger syrup may take the place of the dry ginger root. This is 
added after the rhubarb is cooked. Serve with whipped cream. 

RHUBARB JELLY AND BANANA CREAM 

Rhubarb jelly as above. i cup of sugar 

I cup of sifted banana pulp. | package of gelatine. 

The juice of one half a lemon. i cup of cold water. 

§ cup of orange juice. i cup of cream. 

Soften the gelatine in the cold water and dissolve in the banana 
piilp, heated to the scalding point; add the sugar, and when cooledj 
the orange and lemon juice. Stir, the dish standing meanwhile in 
ice and water, until the mixture begins to thicken, then fold in the 
cream, beaten stiff. Mould the cream and jelly in alternate layers. 
Let each layer become set, but not too solid, before the next one is 
added. If too solid they will not adhere to each other. The 
banana mixture is a Bavarian cream. (See page 476.) 



470 PRACTICAL COOKING AND SERVING 

STRAWBERRY JELLY 

1 pint of strawberry juice and pulp, f cup of sugar. 

} two-ounce package of gelatine. The juice of one lemon. 
f cup of cold water. 

Crush the berries and pass them through a fine sieve or piece of 
cheesecloth, thus removing the seeds, wWch are for many people 
an objectionable feature. Soften the gelatine in the cold water and 
dissolve by setting the dish in hot water; add the sugar and when 
cool the lemon and strawberry juice. Mould in a ring mould. 
Serve with orange sections, freed from membrane and skin, or with 
whipped cream. 

IVORY JELLY 

I ounce of gelatine. I cup of sugar. 

J cup of cold water. ij cups of double cream. 

I cup of hot milk. i teaspoonful of vanilla extract 

A few grains of salt. 

Soak the gelatine in the cold water, and dissolve in the hot milk; 
add the salt and sugar and strain. When cool add the cream and 
vanilla and stir, occasionally, untU the mixture begins to thicken, 
then pour into a mould. Serve with a fruit puree, chocolate syrup 
or cream. 

SHERRY WINE JELLY WITH RAISINS 

Make once and a half the recipe for wine jelly, using sherry wine; 
remove the stems and seeds from half a pound of choice imported 
raisins. If the raisin skins are tough, cook until tender in boiling 
water and drain and dry on a cloth; then seed carefully to preserve 
the shape. Strain the water, in which the raisins were cooked, for 
the hot water needed in making the jeUy. Set a mould in ice, 
pour in a few spoonfuls of the liquid and let it become firm; arrange 
on this raisins to form some s3Tnmetrical pattern, and put a few 
drops of the liquid about each raisin (this as it becomes set will 
hold them in place) cover with a half-inch layer of jelly, then 
when firm add more raisins and more jelly, in layers, until the mould 
is filled. Serve garnished with whipped cream and cubes of jelly 
moulded without the raisins. 

CANNED PEACH JELLY 

i box of gelatine (i ounce). 2 tablespoonfuls of brandy. 

About I cup of sugar. Hot water as needed. 

Thejuice of one lemon. J cup of cold water. 



BLANC MANGE 471 

_ Heat the jmce from a can of peaches and add the sugar, the quan- 
tity depiending upon the amount used in canning; when the sugar 
is dissolved add the gelatioe, softened by standing in the cold water, 
and enough hot water to make three cups in all; let cool, then add 
the lemon juice and brandy. Mould the halves of peaches in the 
liquid. Serve with cream. Apricots and pears niay be prepared 
in the same way. 

STEWED FIQS WITH JELLY AND CREAM 

18 whole figs. The juice of one lemon. 

I cup of liquid. § cup of sherry wine or orange 

} an ounce of gelatine. juice. 

J cup of cold water. i cup of powdered sugar. 

i cup of sugar. i cup of double cream. 

A few drops of vanilla extract. 

Wash the figs and cook, until the skin is tender, in boiling water. 
Drain the figs from the liquid, of which there should be one cup. 
Soften the gdatine in the cold water, and dissolve in the hot liquid; 
add the sugar, stir until dissolved and cooled somewhat, then add 
the lemon juice and wine and strain into a shallow dish. Add the 
sugar and vanilla to the cream and beat imtil stiff to the bottom of 
the dish. Dispose the figs in the centre of a glass serving dish and 
surround with the whipped cream and the jelly, cut in cubes, alter- 
nating the cream and cubes of jelly. 

BLANC MANGE 

1 ouacee ot sweet almondE. i teaepoonful of vacIUa. 

6 bitter almonds. i tVKyoaux package of getodne. 

I cup^ hot milk. i cup of cream. 

I pint of milk. i cup of sugar. 

Blanch the ahnonds and poimd them to a paste with the vaoillA; 
pour over them the cup of hot milk and let stand an hour, then pass 
through a very fine sieve or a piece of cheesecloth. Soften the 
gelatine in half a cup of milk from the pint; scald the rest of the milk 
and in it dissolve the gelatine and sugar; then strain over the al- 
mond milk, let cool, and add the cream and more flavoring if 
iMeded. Stir until beginning to set, then turn into a mould. 



473 PRACTICAL COOKING AND SERVING 

MINT JELLY 

(to seive with roast lamb) 
i a package of gelatine. i a teaspoonful of salt. 

} a cup of cold water. i a teaspoonful of paprika. 

I cup of granulated sugar. i a cup of mint leaves. 

I cup of vinegar. Green color paste. 

Soften the gelatine in the cold water. Boil the sugar and vine- 
gar five or six minutes, add the softened gelatine, the salt, paprika, 
mint leaves chopped fine, and color paste to tint as desired. Stir 
in ice and water until the mixture begins to thicken (that the 
mint may not settle), then turn into small moulds or wineglasses 
and set aside to become firm. When turned from the moulds, 
garnish with tips from fresh stalks of mint. 

ORANGE CREAM 

i cup of orange juice. i two-ounce package of gelatine. 

§ cup of sugar i cup of cold water. 

The yolks of two eggs. li cups of cream. 

} cup of sugar. Grating of orange rind. 

Heat the orange juice and haJf a cup of sugar over hot wator; 
beat the yolks of eggs, add the rest of the sugar and stir and cook in 
the hot mixture, until the spoon is coated with custard; add the 
gelatine, softened in the cold water, and strain into the cream; add 
a grating of yellow orange rind, or a few slices of candied peel, or 
a teaspoonful of orange extract, and stir over ice water until the 
mixture begins to stiffen, then turn into a moidd. 

CASTELLANE PUDDING 

I pound of French chestnuts. } cup of sugar. 

I cup of Bugajr. 3 oimces of gelatine^ 

i cup of water. i cup of cold water. 

I quart of milk. 2 teaspoonfuls of vanilla, eatraet. 

The yolks of eight eggs. } pound of French fruit. 

Maraschino. 

Shell, blanch and cook the chestnuts, then pound in a mortar 
with the sugar and water, cooked together five minutes, and pass 
through a sieve. Make a boiled custard with the milk, yolks of 
eggs, and the half cup of sugar, add the gelatine, softened in the 



STRAWBERRY SPONGE 473 

cold water, and strain into the chestnut mixture. Set into a pan 
of ice water and beat with a whisk until the mixture begins to set. 
Let the fruit, half a cup of vanilla chestnuts, pineapple, cherries, 
etc., all cut in small pieces, stand some time covered with maras- 
chino. When the mixture begins to set, drain the fruit and put 
into a mould, alternately, with the chestnut preparation. Let 
stand until very cold and set. Serve with whole chestnuts, cooked 
in sjnnip and flavored with vanilla. This amount will serve eighteen 
people. 

FRUIT SPONGES (FRUIT AND WINE JELLIES, 
BEATEN EQQS) 

QRAPE SPONGE 

i an ounce of gelatine, or j cup of sugar. 

i a package. The juice of one lemon. 

} cup of cold water. Tlie whites of three eggs. 

I cup of grape juice. 

Soak the gelatine in the cold water, and dissolve by standing the 
dish in hot water. Dissolve the sugar in the fruit juice and strain 
the gelatine into the mixture. Set into ice and water and stir 
occasionally until the mixture begins to thicken ; then add, gradually, 
the whites of the eggs, beaten to a stiff froth, and beat until the 
whole is very light and stiff enough to hold its shape. Pile lightly 
in a glass serving-dish, and serve very cold with whipped cream, 
sweetened before whipping. Or the sponge may be moulded and 
when turned from the mould served with whipped cream or boiled 
custard. Strawberry, raspberry, or lemon juice, are good substi- 
tutes for the grape jvdce. 

STRAWBERRY SPONQE 

J an ounce of gelatine, or i cup of sugar. 

i a package. The juice of one lemon. 

J cup of cold water. i cup of strawberry juice and pulp, 

J cup of hot water. The whites of three eggs. . 

Soak the gelatine in the cold water and dissolve in the hot water; 
add the sugar, stir until dissolved, then strain into a dish standing 
in ice water; when cool add the strawberry juice and beat until 



474 PRACTICAL COOKING AND SERVING 

light, then beat in, gradually, the whites of the eggs, beaten light, 
and continue beating until the mixture will hold its shape. Have 
ready a chilled earthen or agate-ware bowl, lined with strawbemes 
(cut the berries in halves and dip them in melted gelatine, and they 
will adhere to the bowl) and turn the sponge into the bowl. Serve, 
turned from the bowl and garnished with whipped cream and 
whole strawberries. 



HAMBURG CREAM, WITH WHIPPED CREAM, ETC. 

The grated rind and juice of two i package of gelatine. 

large lemons. i cup of cold water. 

I cup of sugar. Whipped cream. 

8 eggs. Candied cherries. 

Heat the lemon juice and half the sugar over hot water; beat the 
yolks of the eggs and add the other half of the sugar; stir and cook 
the eggs and sugar in the lemon juice and sugar until thick, add the 
gelatine, softened in the cold water, and when again hot, fold in the 
whites of the eggs, beaten dry; let stand a moment to cook the 
whites, then turn into a border mould. When cold unmould and 
fill the centre with whipped cream. Garnish with a few cherries. 
This dish is often served in glasses. In this case gelatine is not 
used. 

SNOW EQQS 

Take as many ounces of sugar as whites of eggs (two level table- 
spoonfuls of sugar make an ounce). Beat the whites until nearly 
dry, then continue beating, adding the sugar meanwhile, until haft 
has been used; beat imtil the mixture is very firm, then beat in the 
other half of the sugar. Dip a tablespoon in boiling water, then fill 
it with meringue and shape and roimd the mixture in such a manner 
that there shall be as much meringue above as below the level of 
the spoon. Remove the mixture to a saucepan of gently boiling 
water, and let stand where the water will keep hot, but not boil, 
and poach the eggs until firm throughout, turning occasionally. 
It will take from six to ten, possibly fourteen, minutes to poach each 
egg. Remove with a skimmer and drain on a cloth, spread over a 
sieve. Snow eggs may be poached in milk, and the milk be used 
afterward in making a custard. 



EASTER PUDDING 475 

COLD SPONGY MIXTURES WITH STARCH 

PRUNE BLANC MANGE (PHILADELPHIA) 

(rOR USE AT RESTAURANT, SCHOOL OR STORE) 

3 pounds of prunes. i teaspoonf ul of salt. 

6 ounces of comstatch The juice of two lemons. 

(J package). The whites of six eggs. 

12 ounces of sugar (ij cups). 

Wash the prunes thoroughly and let soak over night in two or 
three quarts of water. Let simmer in the same water until soft. 
Mix together thoroughly the cornstarch, sugar, and salt; then add 
the hot prune juice, Of which there shoxild be three pints, and stir 
constancy until the mixture thickens and reaches the boiling 
point; then let cook over hot water one hour, stirring occasionally. 
Stone the prunes and pass them through a coarse sieve; add to the 
cornstarch mixture with the lemon juice, and, when thoroughly 
heated, fold in the whites of the eggs, beaten imtil foamy, but not 
dry. Mould in cups, and serve very cold with cream. 

REBECCA PUDDINQ 

I quart of milk. The whites of three eggs. 

J cup of cornstarch. i cup of cocoanut, or 

I cup of sugar. i cup of chopped almonds, or 

i teaspoonful of salt. x teaspoonful of vanilla extract 

Scald the milk; mix the cornstarch with rm\k to pour and stir 
into the hot milk; add the sugar and cook fifteen minutes then, 
before folding in the whites of the eggs, beaten stiff, add the al- 
monds, cocoanut or vanilla. Turn into a motild, rinsed in cold 
water, and set aside to become chilled and firm. Serve with currant 
jelly, cream and sugar, or with a boiled custard. 

EASTER PUDDINQ 

Mould Rebecca pudding in a mould having a flat top. Mould 
blue violets in lemon or wine jelly, selecting a mould that will give 
a shape suitable to place upon the flat top of the form of Rebecca 
pudding. When cold and ready to serve unmould the pudding and 
place the jelly above it. Garnish the dish with violets, fresh or 
candied, and serve with cream and sugar, or boiled custard, 



476 PRACTICAL COOKING AND SERVING 

RICE PUDDING (GRECIAN STYLE) 

i cup of rice. 2 tablespoonfuls of cornstaich. 

I teaspoonful of salt. J cup of milk. 

Piece of cinnamon bark. The yolks of four eggs. 

3 cups of milk. J cup of sugar. 

Blanch the rice and steam with the salt, cinnamon, and milk 
until tender; dilute the cornstarch with the milk and stir through 
the hot rice with a fork; let cook ten minutes and add the yolks, 
beaten with the sugar; let cook until the egg is set; remove the 
cinnamon and serve very cold. This pudding may be turned into 
buttered pudding dish and finished with a meringue, made of the 
whites of two or more eggs and twice as many tablespoonfuls of 
sugar as whites of egg. Beat the egg whites until very foamy, then 
beat in gradually half of the sugar; continue the beating until the 
mixture is very dry and glossy, then beat in the other half of the 
sugar. Bake from ten to fifteen minutes. 

GELATINE DISHES WITH WHIPPED CREAM 

BAVARIAN CREAMS 

Bavarian creams or Bavaroises are complex preparations con- 
sidered to be among the finest products of the culinary art. They 
are produced by combim'ng fruit juice, or some flavored liquid, as 
coffee or milk, with caramel or chocolate, gelatine and sugar with 
whipped cream in such a manner that the fluffy texture of the 
cream is retained. When the aeams are made of milk, flavored 
with nuts, coffee, chocolate, etc., yolks of eggs are usually employed 
to enrich and, in connection with the gelatine, to thicken the mix- 
ture. Yolks of eggs are not usually added to creams made of fruit 
juices. While this is the general rule, eggs may be introduced into 
a fruit Bavaroise and omitted from that prepared with milk. 
The combination of eggs with fruit, is a French custom which has 
not, as yet, obtained to any extent in this country. 

VANILLA BAVARIAN CREAM 

J a package of gelatine. 2 yolks of eggs. 

i cup of cold water. i cup of double cream. 

J a cup of hot milk } cup of cream from top of milk bot« 

J a cup of sugar. tie. 

i a teaspoonful of salt. i teaspoonful of vanilla extract. 



PINEAPPLE BAVARIAN CREAM 477 

Soften the gelatine in the cold water; add half the sugar to the 
hot milk in the double-boiler; beat the yolks, add the other half of 
the sugar and the salt and beat again, then cook in the hot milk 
until the mixture coats the spoon; add the softened gelatine and 
strain. Set in a dish of ice and water and stir until beginning to 
thicken. Then fold in the cream, beaten together until firm, and 
the vanilla. Turn into a mould and set aside to become fixm. 
Two tablespoonfuls of rum or sherry wine may be used with or 
without the vanilla. 

COFFEE BAVARIAN CREAM 

Omit the vanilla and soften the gelatine in one fourth a cup of 
clear black coffee in place of the water. Or use the water to soak 
the gelatine and substitute three fourths cup of coffee for the 
milk used in the Vanilla Bavarian Cream, 

CHOCOLATE BAVARIAN CREAM 

Melt two ounces of chocolate over hot water; add one fourth 
cup each, of sugar and boiling water and stir and cook until smooth 
and boiling; add to the three fourths cup of milk and finish as 
Vanilla Bavarian Cream. 

QINQER BAVARIAN CREAM 

i package of gelatine. i cup of preserved ginger. 

i cup of cold water. 2 tablespoonfuls of sberty wine. 

i cup of hot milk. i cup of double cream. 

2 yolks of eggs. i cup of cream from top of mUk 

I cup of sugar. bottle. 

GINGER BAVARIAN CREAM, NO. 2 

Omit the milk and yolks, in above recipe. Use one cup of pre- 
served ginger — "stem" ginger, chopped exceedingly fine and 
mixed with syrup from the jar. Dissolve the softened gelatine 
by setting the dish in boiling water. 

PINEAPPLE BAVARIAN CREAM (POMPADOUR STYLE) 

I can of sliced pineapple. f cup of sugar. 

I package of gelatine. 2 cups of double cream. 

J cup of cold water. j dozen pistachio nuts. 

Juice of one half a lemon. i dozen maraschino cherries. 



47S PRACTICAL COOKING AND SERVING 

Cut slices of pineapple in halves, then split each half and use to 
line the bottom and sides of an oval charlotte mould holding five 
cups. Chop the rest of the pineapple and mix with the syrup from 
the can. Heat one cup of this pulp and juice. Soften the gelatine 
in the cold water and dissolve in the cup of hot pineapple; add the 
sugar, lemon juice and half of the cherries and nuts, chopped fine. 
Stir the mixture in ice and water until beginning to set, then fold 
in one cup and a half of the cream, beaten firm. Turn into the 
lined mould. When cold and set, unmould and decorate with the 
rest of the cream, beaten solid, and sprinkle with the rest of the 
chopped cherries and nuts. 

PINEAPPLE BAVARIAN CREAM 

I package of gelatine. The juice of one lemon. 

i cup of cold water. i cup of sugar. 

I pint of grated pineapple. The whip from three cups of cream. 

Soften the gelatine in cold water and scald the pineapple (juice 
and pulp) with the sugar. Less sugar will be required (one half a 
cup), if canned pineapple be used. Add the gelatine, dissolved 
by standing in hot water and strained through a cheesecloth, and 
the lemon juice. Set the mixtiure in ice water and stir until it 
begins to thicken, then add part of the whip from the cream and 
with a perforated spoon beat the cream evenly into the gelatine 
mixture; then add the rest of the whip, part at a time, and fold into 
the gelatine and first part of the cream. When the mixture is 
chilled enough to hold its shape, turn into a mould. If preferred 
the scalded pineapple may be pressed through a cheesecloth, to 
remove bits of pulp. This dish is especially pretty when moulded 
in a cylindrical mould. When unmoulded place a few blossoms of 
Narcissus in the centre and surround the base with grated pine- 
apple, cooked with sugar and lemon juice. 

APRICOT BAVARIAN CREAM WITH SNOW EQQS 

i package of gelatine. The whip from two cups of cream. 

} cup of cold water. Snow eggs. 

I cup of apricot purge. The whites of three eggs. 

The juice of one half a lemon. J cup of powdered sugar. 

} a cup of sugar. \ teaspoonful of vanilla. 

Soften the gelatine in the cold water and dissolve by setting the 
dish in hot water; strain into the apricot puree — cooked apricot 



RASPBERRY BAVARIAN CREAM 479 

pressed through a sieve — and add the sugar and lemon juice; stir 
until the sugar is dissolved, then set into ice water, and stir until 
the mixture begins to thicken; then add the whip from the cream 
as above. Prepare the snow eggs as in the recipe (page 474), 
moulding them in after-dinner coffee spoons. Dispose the "eggs " 
and the slices, or quarters, of cooked apricots, alternately, on the 
outside of the mould, holding them in place with the Bavarian 
mixture. Also make alternate layers of this mixture. Serve turned 
from the mould on to a plate covered with a lace paper. Whipped 
cream flavored to taste, or a compote of apricots, may be served 
apart, if desired. 

PISTACHIO AND STRAWBERRY BAVAROISE 

Stiawberry Bavaroise. Pistachio Bavaroise. 

} package of gelatine. i package of gelatine, 

i cup of cold water. i cup of cold water. 

I cup of strawberry pulp and i cup of milk. 

juice. 2 ounces of crushed pistachio nuts 

The juice of one half a lemon. i cup of sugar, 

i cup of sugar. Green color paste. 
Rose color paste, if needed. 

The whip from three and one half cups of cream. 

Prepare the two creams as in the preceding recipes, dividing the 
whip from the cream equally, then put by spoonfuls, to produce a 
Variegated appearance, into a mould decorated with strawberries, 
cut in halves, and blanched and crushed pistachio nuts. If the 
pistachio nuts be finely crushed in the mortar, the decoration will 
resemble green moss. In making the pistachio cream, scald the 
crushed nuts in the cream, then remove or not by straining, as 
desired. 

RASPBERRY BAVARIAN CREAM 

I package of gelatine. Garnish- 

i cup of raspberry juice. The froth from i cup of double 

The juice of one half a lemon. cream and one cup of milk. 

I cup of raspberry juice. Sauteme to flavor. 

\ cup of sugar. Green color paste, 

li cups of double cream. 

Soften the gelatine in the fourth cup of raspberry juice and 
dissolve bv setting in hot water, then proceed as usual, beating the 



48o PRACTICAL COOKING AND SERVING 

cream until solid to the bottom of the bowl. This gives a very rich 
dessert. In the garnish use only enough color paste to tint the 
cream a very delicate shade of green. 

RICE BAVARIAN CREAM WITH PRUNES 

i cup of rice. i cup of cold water. 

ij cups of milk. i pint of cream. 

i cup of milk. i8 cooked prunes. 

The yolks of three eggs. The juice of one half a lemon. 

J cup of sugar. 3 tablespoonfuls of sherry wine. 

J ounce of gelatine. Garnish of cooked prunes. 

Blanch the rice, then cook in the cup and a half of milk until 
tender. Make a boiled custard with the half cup of milk, the yolks 
and the sugar; add the gelatine, softened in the cold water, and 
strain over the rice. Stir over ice water until the mixture begins 
to thicken, then fold in the prunes, sifted or stoned and cut in pieces, 
as pleases; the cream, beaten soUd, and the lemon juice, also wine, 
if used. Serve surrounded with cooked prunes. This is par- 
ticularly good when preserved pineapple, cut in small pieces, is 
used in place of the prunes. If a white dessert be preferred, omit 
the custard, making ihe rice moist with an equivalent of milk or 
cream. Omit the prunes and serve the dish with sliced oranges, or 
orange jelly, cut in cubes. 

GATEAU ST. EM I LION 

Bake a loaf of sponge cake in a round pan without a tube. 
When cold, score the top, all around, three fourths an inch from the 
centre, and carefully remove a thin round of cake that may be 
returned to place later on. Remove more of the cake to leave a 
case with walls nearly an inch thick; fill the case with caramel, 
vanilla or coffee Bavarian cream, and set the round of cake back 
in place to give the original shape of the loaf. Spread the whole 
outside of the cake with a thin layer of Mocha frosting and orna- 
ment with more of the same frosting, put on with bag and star 
tube. 

COLD CHARLOTTES 

Cold charlottes differ from hot charlottes in that whipped cream 
enters into their composition. There is usually an outer case or 
covering and a centre of Bavarian cream, ivory jellv, or simply 



BURNT-ALMOND BAVARIAN CREAM 481 

whipped cream, sweetened and flavored, or whipped cream with 
whipped whites of eggs. When the case is made of lady-fingers, 
narrow slices of cake, iced alternately in different colors, maca- 
roons, gauffres, wafers, etc., the name Charlotte Russe is applied to 
the dessert. When the case is made of fruits, or wine jelly, holding 
strawberries, sections of orange, or other fruit, a macedoineor 
Celestine charlotte results. When the charlottes have an outer 
case (a compound cream lining), with a different colored cream or 
fruit centre, a Charlotte a Surprise is produced. 

CHARLOTTE RUSSE 

INDIVIDUAL STRAWBERRY CHARLOTTE RUSSE 

Dip the edge of macaroon drops into sugar cooked to the caramel 
stage and kept liquid over hot water. Press the macaroons to- 
gether to form a ring about a cup. Remove the ring from the cup 
to a plate, and in the same manner add other rings to form a basket, 
holding each macaroon in place an instant while the caramel is 
hardening. Put macaroons together with caramel over an oiled 
cup or mould to form a handle and fasten this in place with caramel. 
FiU the basket with double cream, sweetened and beaten until 
solid, and fresh strawberries. These should not stand very long 
after being filled; tiliey should be set in place upon individual plates 
before being filled with the cream. If a macaroon base be desired 
for the baskets, fashion that first, then add macaroons dipped in 
caramel, one after another, as in making a burr basket. 

BURNT-ALMOND CHARLOTTE RUSSE 

Dip the ends of ahnond wafers (see page 415) in caramel and then 
in chopped and browned ahnonds; dry and dip the side of one wafer 
after another into the caramel and fasten one to another around an 
oiled mould. Mould a bumt-almond Bavarian cream in a inouM 
a little smaller than the wafer case. When ready to serve remove 
the cream from the mould and place the wafer case over it. Dec- 
orate with whipped cream, piling it high above the Bavarian 
cream. 

BURNT-ALMOND BAVARIAN CREAM 

Soften one fourth box of gelatine in one fourth cup of cold 
water. Cook two thirds cup of sugar to caramel — add half a 



482 PRACTICAL COOKING AND SERVING 

cup of blanched almonds, chopped fine, and stir while browning 
slightiy, add half a cup of water; stir while the caramel dissolves, 
then let boil two or three minutes; add the softened gelatine, and 
set into ice water; when the mixture begins to thicken, fold in one 
cup and a half of cream, beaten firm. Sponge or meringue lady- 
fingers may be used to line the mould for this charlotte russe. Or 
these may be made into a case similar to the one made with the 
wafers. 

CHARLOTTE RUSSE WITH SALPICON OF FRUIT 

(iNDIVrDUAL recipe) 
J cup of double cream. i tablespoonful of wine, or 

i cup of milk. i teaspoonful of vanilla extract. 

I teaspoonful of granulated Lady-fingers. 

gelatine. Whipped cream. 

3 tablespoonfuls of cold water. i cup of sugar (scant). 

Garnish: stoned and skiimed white grapes, maraschino cherries, syrup. 

Stir the cream and milk together, whip and drain; soften the 
gelatine in the cold water and (fissolve over hot water; add the wine 
or vanilla and pour over the cream; add the sugar (sugar syrup is 
better) and set the pan into ice water; turn the pan in one direc- 
tion and stir in the opposite direction imtil the mixture thickens 
then turn into a moTJd lined with lady-fingers. When ready to 
serve, turn the charlotte from the moxild, first dipping it into warm 
water and making sure that the mixtmre does not adhere to the edge 
of the mould at any point. Garnish with a little whipped cream, 
using the pastry bag and tube, and stirround with the grapes and 
cherries, mixed with the sugar syrup and a little of the sjrrup from 
the cherries. 

CHOCOLATE CHARLOTTE RUSSE 

Fill a mould lined with lady-fingers with chocolate Bavarian 
cream, made either with or without eggs. Garnish with sweetened 
and flavored whipped cream — u^ng a pastry bag and tube — and 
candied cherries. 

BANANA CANTALOUPE (CHARLOTTE RUSSE) 

i package of gelatine. The juice of one lemon. 

i cup of cold water. x cup of banana pulp. 

I cup of cold milk. 3 cups of double cream 

The yolks of four eggs. Lady-fingers, 

I cup of sugar. Hstachio nuts or candied plums. 



CHARLOTTE HUSSE FILLING 483 

Scald the milk with part of the sugar; beat the egg yolks, add the 
rest of the sugar and a few grains of salt; pour the hot milk upon 
the eggs and sugar, mix thoroughly, return to the boiler, and cook 
until tixe mixture thickens slightly; add the softened gelatine and 
strain over the banana puree (bananas, with skin and coarse threads 
removed and pressed through a sieve or vegetable ricer), and return 
the saucepan to the hot water to scald the banana; then remove 
from the fire, add the lemon juice and stir over ice water; when cool 
and beginning to thicken fold in the whipped cream. When stiff 
enough to hold its shape turn into a melon mould lined throughout 
with lady-fingers. These may be trimmed to fit into the spaces of 
the mould. When ready to serve, turn from the mould, brush the 
outside with white of egg, slightly beaten, and sprinkle thickly 
with blanched pistachio nuts, or candied green grapes or plums, 
chopped fine. 

INDIVIDUAL MAPLE CHARLOTTE RUSSE 

Paper cases, or souffle dishes, lined with angel lady-fingers (cut 
in suitable pieces)^ filled with maple Bavarian cream and orna- 
mented with whipped cream, make a pleasing change from the 
ordinary charlotte russe. 

CHARLOTTE RUSSE FILLING (NO GELATINE) 

I pint of cream. J cup of sugar. 

The whites of two eggs. 2 tablespoonfuls of wine, or 

I teaspoonful of vanilla extract, or both. 

Beat the cream until stiff to the bottom of the bowl, or use the 
drained froth from thin cream beaten with a whip chum. Beat the 
whites of the eggs until dry, then gradually beat in half the sugar 
and fold in the other half; add the extract, or wine, and combine 
with the cream, cutting and folding the two mixtures together. 
Use for filling cases that are not to be unmoulded. This is one of 
the best of fillings for a bombe glace or other frozen mixture. 

CHARLOTTE RUSSE FILLING (NO GELATINE OR EQQS) 

I cup of double cream. } teaspoonful of vanilla, or 

i cup of powdered sugar i tables[Kx>nful of wine, or both, 

(scant). 



484 PRACTICAL COOKUvG AND SERVING 

Mix all the ingredients and beat until thick to the bottom of tJhc 
bowl. This filling may be used in cases that are to be unmoulded, 
but it is generally preferred when the charlotte is to be served in a 
paper or other case, or in a cup. 

CHARTREUSE OF CHESTNUTS (CHARLOTTE RUS8E) 

I cup of chestnut pulp. i cup of French candied fruit 
1 cup of sugar. cut in bits. 

i cup of water. Vanilla or wine, 

i box of gelatine. Chocolate Bavarian cream, 

i cup of cold water. Whipped cream. 

I cup of cream. Candied chestnuts. 
Lady fingers. 

Shell, blanch, and cook in milk large chestnuts enough to yield 
a cup of pur6e. They will pass through the sieve more easily when 
hot. Cook the sugar and water until a thread is formed. Soften 
the gelatine in the cold water and dissolve in the hot syrup, then 
strain into the chestnut pulp; beat together thoroughly, add the 
fruit and flavoring, and stir over ice water until it begins to set, 
then fold in the cup of cream, beaten stiff. Line a melon or other 
fanciful shaped mould, set in ice water, with lady-fingers, then 
with chocolate Bavarian cream; fill the centre with the chestnut 
cream, cover with chocolate cream, and let stand imtil the mixture 
is well set. Serve tm-ned on to a lace paper, or surrounded with 
whipped cream and candied chestnuts. 

CHESTNUT CHARLOTTE RUSSE 

I cup of chestnut pur6e. The yolks of four eggs. 

I cup of sugar. J cup of sugar. 

i cup of water. J teaspoonful of salt. 

I ounce of gelatine. J cup of candied fruit. 

1 cup of cold water. J cup of wine. 

The whip from three cups of Lady-finger meringues. 

single cream. i cup of milk. 

Make a boiled custard of the milk, yolks of eggs, half cup of 
sugar, and salt; add the gelatine softened in the cold water and 
gradually mix into the chestnut pur6e, diluted with the sugar and 
water cooked to a syrup; add the wine and fruit and stir over ice 
water until the mixture begins to set, then fold in the whip from the 




DEVIL'S FOOD CAKE 









■ 



YEAST DOUGHNUTS 




HOLLY LEAVES CUT FROM CITKON AND RED CANDIES. 



ROYAL CREAM WHIP 485 

cream and turn into mould lined with meringues shaped like lady- 
fingers. Cut the meringues into triangular shape and fit into the 
bottom of the mould, first lining it with paper. Leave a narrow, 
but uniform, space between the meringues. 

SYLLABUBS, WHIPS, JUNKETS, DEVONSHIRE CREAMS, ETC. 

If you will but speak the word, I will make you a good Syllabub, and then 
you may sit down in a Hay-cock and eat it. — Izaak Walton. 

The foundation of these idyllic dishes, the names of which head 
this division of the dessert service, is cream or rich milk, preferably 
milk fresh drawn. The cream or milk is variously modified with 
spice and wine, brandy or cider. Lemon juice is usually added to 
accentuate the flavor of the whole. 

WINE SYLLABUB 

I pint of cream. i cup of sherry, Madeira or port. 

The juice of one lemon. A grating of nutmeg or a sprinkling 

J cup of sugar (scant). of ground cinnamon. 

Mix the sugar with the lemon juice and wine and when dissolved 
add the cream and whip to a froth. If a whip churn be used drain 
the froth. Serve very cold in glasses. Some authorities dispose a 
■wine-soaked bit of cake in the bottom of the glass before the cream 
is put in. 

LEMON SYLLABUB 

I pint of double cream. i cup of sugar. 

The juice of five lemons. i cup of sweet wine. 

The grated rind of one lemon. 

Mix the sugar and lemon juice and, when the sugar is dissolved, 
add the wine and cream and whip the whole to a froth. Drain if 
needed. Let stand some hours. Serve very cold. 

ROYAL CREAM WHIP 

I pint of double cream. J cup of sugar (scant), 

ij cups of grape juice. The whites of two eggs. 

Beat the whites of the eggs until foamy, add the fruit jtiice mixed 
with the sugar, and lastly the cream, then beat with a whip chum. 



486 PRACTICAL COOKING AND SERVING 

Take off the froth as it rises and drain on a sieve. Pour the un- 
whipped mixture into handsome glasses, pile the whip on top and 
serve ice cold. Strawberry or red raspberry juice may take the 
place of the grape juice. 

PUREE OF CHESTNUTS WITH WHIPPED CREAM AND 

FRUITS 

I pint of double cream. i pint of chestnut pvi6e. 

i cup of sugar. J cup of syrup at 35°. 

I cup of candied fruit soaked in A few grains of salt. 

wine and drained. Flavoring (wine or vanilla). 

Use the wine, in which the fruit has steeped, to flavor the cream;, 
add this with the sugar to the cream and whip the whole very light. 
Blanch and cook chestnuts to yield a pint of pulp when passed 
through a sieve or ricer; beat with the syrup imtil light and fluffy; 
if not moist enough add a little cream or milk. Dispose the cream 
in a mound in the centre of the dish after first beating in the fruit, 
then press the puree aroimd it, using a sieve or vegetable ricer — 
the ricer will give the prettiest effect. If preferred, the fruit may be 
stirred into the chestnut puree, and disposed in a mound on the 
serving-dish; then cover with whipped cream, and pipe cream upon 
the mound to form some pattern. Garnish with candied chestnuts 
or fruit. 

JUNKET 

Junket is another old-fashioned dish, which has lately had a re- 
naissance. The characteristic texture of the dish is occasioned by 
the action of rennet upon milk. Formerly a piece of the inner lin- 
ing of a calf's stomach, prepared by cleaning and salting, was laid 
in the "blood-warm" milk (about 98°Fahr.) to produce a jellied 
state. If too much or too little rennet were used, the result was 
unsatisfactory, and the exact quantity required was a rather nice 
matter to determine. The renaissance of this simple dainty is 
largely due to the fact that the rennet principle can now be pur- 
chased in the form of tablets (junket), one of which is the exact 
quantity required for one quart of milk. Thus the success of the 
dish is assured, provided always that the milk be at the proper tem- 
perature when the tablet is incorporated. 



VARIATIONS OF PLAIN JUNKET 487 

(PLAIN JUNKET (CURDS AND WHEY) 

a to 4 teaspoonfuls of rum, brandy i quart of rich milk. 

or wine, or i junket tablet. 

I teaspoonful of vanilla. Powdered sugar and cinnamon. 

Crush the junket tablet and dissolve in one tablespoonful of cold 
water. Heat the milk and sugar, stirring constantly, until it 
reaches 100° Fahr. ; add the flavoring and the dissolved tablet and 
stir until evenly mixed, then turn into a serving dish, or preferably 
into sherbet cups. Let the preparation stand in a warm room until 
it becomes jelly-like, then without jarring set aside in a cool place. 
Just before serving sprinkle the top with powdered sugar and cinna- 
mon mixed. When the dish is leveled with a spoon, as in eating, 
or if it be broken in moving, the curd and whey separate somewhat. 

DEVONSHIRE JUNKET 

Prepare as plain junket, and just before serving cover the top 
with Devonshire cream, then sprinkle with the sugar and cinnamon 
as before. Whipped cream is sometimes substituted for Devon- 
shire cream. 

DEVONSHIRE CREAM 

Let a pan of milk, fresh drawn from the cow, stand in a cool place 
from twelve to twenty-four hours, then set over the fire and let 
come very slowly to the scalding point without boiling. Remove 
to a cool place from six to twelve hours; then skim off the cream, 
which will be quite firm and of a peculiarly sweet flavor. 

VARIATIONS OF PLAIN JUNKET 

One ounce of chocolate, melted and cooked until smooth and 
glossy with two or three tablespoonfuls of boiling water, added to 
the milk for a plain junket, gives a chocolate junket. Cook the 
sugar to caramel, dissolve in hot water, and add to the milk, for 
caramel junket. When richness is required, as for convalescents 
and sometimes for children, add the beaten yolks of two or three 
eggs, mixed with sugar, to the milk and make "snow eggs" of the 
whites. Serve a snow egg on the top of each glass. If plain 
junket be prepared in a large dish, on serving pour around each 
service a pur6e of fruit (orange, banana, pineapple, etc.) chocolate 
sauce or syrup, coffee sauce, etc. 



CHAPTER XXI 
Hot Puddings, Etc, 

SYNOPSIS OF CHAPTER 



a Hot puddings thickened with previously cooked /Baked. 

ingredients. 1 Steamed. 

6. Hot puddings thickened with uncooked ingredients: 
I. Grains. 

{/ Steamed. 
Uncooked flour. 1 Baked. 
( Fried. 
]Souffl&. 
Cooked flour, 
c. Omelets. 

A. HOT PUDDINGS THICKENED WITH COOKED 
INGREDIENTS 

As a rule, puddings in which previously cooked ingredients are 
used require but little cooking, and that at a low temperature; 
especially is this true when eggs are employed. The cooking of 
steamed puddings needs be continuous, and boiling water must be 
used to replenish the supply as needed. If a steam Icettle be not 
available, a saucepan tightly covered will answer the purpose, if 
the mould containing the pudding be set on a trivet (a dozen nails 
will do), to allow the passage of water between it and the bottom 
of the saucepan. 

When grains are used for thickening, the pudding should be 
stirred several times during the first part of the cooking, lest the 
grains settle and form a heavy pasty mass in the bottom of the 
vessel. Often the grains may be cooked to advantage in a double- 
boiler, then, after the other ingredients have been added, the cook- 
ing may be finished in the oven. 

488 



CRACKER RAISIN PUDDING 489 

BROWN BETTY 

i cup of melted butter. The juice of one lemon or orange. 

I quart of bread crumbs (centre Enough water to make half a cup 

of loaf). with the fruit juice. 

Nearly one quart of sHced apples Sugar. 

(pared and cored). Grating of lemon or orange rind. 

Put the crumbs moistened with butter into a baking dish in 
layers alternately with the apple, making the last layer of crumbs, 
and sprinkle each layer of apple with the fruit juice, water, and 
sugar. Bake about an hour. Let the dish be covered during the 
first part of the baking. Occasionally substitute sliced rhubarb for 
the apple. A few stoned raisins will improve the latter dish. 

MOCK INDIAN PUDDING. (MRS. MILLER) 

Cut stale bread in half inch slices and remove the crusts. Butter 
the bread on both sides, pile the slices together, and cut in cubes. 
To ftach cup of cubes — well pressed down — use one pint of milk, 
a scant half a cup of molasses, and half a teaspoonful of salt. Bake 
in a buttered pudding dish, in a very moderate oven, from two to 
three hours. Serve hot with or without cream. 

THANKSQIVINQ PUDDING 

i\ cups of cracker crumbs. | teaspoonful of dnnamoa. 

I cup of sugar. i pound of raisins. 

\ cup of molasses. 6 eggs. 

J teaspoonful of salt. S cups of milk. 

J teaspoonful of mace. i cup of butter. 

Scald the milk and pour over the cracker crumbs and butter; let 
stand a few moments, then add the molasses and spices, the eggs 
beaten with the sugar, and the raisins stoned. Bake in a moderate 
oven about four hours. Stir several times during the first hour 
to keep the raisins from settling to the bottom of the dish. 

CRACKER RAISIN PUDDING (NEW HAMPSHIRE) 

6 Boston crackers. I cup of sugar. 

Butter. 4 teaspoonful of jsalt. 

I cup of seeded raisins A grating of nutmeg. 

3 eggs. 5 cups of milk. 



490 PRACTICAL COOKING AND SERVING 

Split the crackers, spread with butter, and dispose in a buttered 
baking dish with the raisins; beat the eggs, add the sugar, salt, 
nutmeg, and milk, and pour over the crackers; let stand half an 
hour, then bake slowly imtil the centre is firm. Serve hot with 
hard sauce. 

ST. DAVID'S PUDDDINQ. (MARIETTA McPHERSON) 

6 apples. i pound of almonds. 

I cup of water. J cup of butter. 

J cup of sugar. i cup of sherry, 

i} cups of macaroon crumbs. Salt to taste. 

Pare and core the apples, then cut them into eighths. Cook the 
apples until tender, but not broken, in the sugar and water, heated 
to the boiling point. Shell, blanch, and shred the almonds. Melt 
the butter and stir into it the macaroon cnmibs. Butter a baking 
dish and in it dispose the crumbs, apples, and almonds, in alternate 
layers. Pour over the remaining syrup and the sherry, and bake 
in a slow oven three hours. Peaches may be substituted for the 
apples. The pudding when baked shbuld be of a rich, dark-red 
color. 

QUEEN OF PUDDINGS 

I quart of milk. The yolks of four eggs. 

I pint of grated breed crumbs. Currant or other jelly, 

li cups of sugar. } cup of sugar. 

Grated rind and juice of one lemon. The whites of four eggs. 

For a change add two ounces of melted chocolate, one fourth 
(easpoonful of cinnamon, and one and one half teaspoonfuls of 
vanUla extract, in place of the grated rind and lemon juice. 

Beat the yolks of the eggs, add the sugar, grated rind, aad juice, 
then the mfik, and pour over the bread crumbs; let stand about 
half an hour, then bake untU finn in the centre; spread with jelly 
or strawberry preserves, and cover with a meringue made of the 
half cujj of sugar and the whites of the eggs. Return to the oven 
«bout eight minutes, to brown the meringue. Serve hot or cold. 

CUBAN PUDDING 

i pound of dry sponge cake. 4 eggs. 

i pound of grated oocoanut. i cup of sugar. 

I pint of mjJk. Preeerv«d gina rf 



VITOS PUDDING a9t 

Press the cake through a sieve and add the cocoanut; beat the 
eggs slightly; add the sugar, and then, gradually, the hot milk 
and pour the whole over the cake and cocoanut. Decorate the 
bottom and sides of a well-buttered mould with about two ounces 
of preserved ginger. Put the cake mixture into the mould, cover 
and steam about an hour and a half. Serve the pudding with the 
syrup from the ginger jar, heated and poured over it. 

CHRISTMAS PLUM PUDDING (A LA DAVID HARUM) 

I cup of scalded milk. J teaspoonful, each, of cloves and 

I pint of bread crumbs. mace. 

I cup of sugar. J pound of raisins. 

I teaspoonful of salt. i pound of currants. 

The yolks of four eggs. 3 cup of almonds. 

I teaspoonful of cinnamon and | pound of suet. 

nutmeg. The whites of four eggs. 

Pour the scalded milk over the crumbs taken from the centre of 
a stale loaf of bread; when cool, add the sugar, salt, and yolks of 
eggs, beaten together, then the chopped suet, mixed with the 
blanched and chopped almonds, the seeded raisins, and the cleaned 
ciurants; lastly add the spices and the whites of eggs, beaten stiff. 
Serve with hard sauce, or with any liquid wine or fruit pudding 
sauce. In the illustration the pudding is served with whipped 
cream, sprinkled with grated maple sugar. Steam four hours. 

For a change chopped dates or figs are particularly g«od in place 
of the currants or raisins. 

VITOS PUDDING 

1 cup of vitos. 2 tablespoonfuls of butter. 

2 cups of milk (scalded). i teaspoonful of soda. 
i cup of molasses. i teaspoonful of salt. 
2 eggs. I cup of dates. 

Stir the \'itos (any other wheat breakfast food may be sul> 
stituted) into the scalded milk and let cook until the mixture 
thickens, then remove from the fire, add the molasses, butter, soda, 
salt, and dates, stoned and cut in pieces, and, lastly, when cooled 
somewhat, the eggs, beaten light without separatmg. Turn into a 
buttered mould and steam three hours. Serve with hard or liquid 
pudding sauce. 



492 PRACTICAL COOKING AND SERVING 

SWEET POTATO PUDDING 

J pound (i cup) of sugar. § cup of cream. 

i pound (i cup) of butter. ^ cup of brandy. 

I pound of sifted potato (sweet). ^ cup of rose-water. 

4 eggs beaten without separating. Cinnamon and nutmeg. 

Beat the butter and sugar to a cream; add the cooked potatoes, 
sifted, the eggs, beaten to a froth, and the other ingredients with 
spices to taste. Bake in a pudding dish, lined with puff-paste. 
Serve hot with a pudding sauce. 

CABINET PUDDING 

I cup of fruit, currants, chopped 3 cups of milk. 

citron and raisins. 4 eggs. 

Ciimamon and cloves (ground) Salt. 

at discretion. 2 tablespoonfuls of melted butter. 

Slices of sponge cake. 

Butter a three-pint brick mould, sprinkle the bottom of the 
mould with fruit, and then add slices of stale sponge cake, and spices 
if desired. Alternate these layers until the mould is filled. Beat 
the eggs, add the salt, the milk, and the melted butter, and pour 
over the ingredients into the mould. Let stand one hour. Steam 
one hour and a half. Serve hot with wine or custard sauce, or with 
currant jelly. 

STEAMED BERRY PUDDING 

1 cup of milk I cup of huckleberries or cran- 

2 eggs. berries. 
Rolled crackers or sifted graham i teaspoonful of salt. 

bread. | cup of sugar. 

2 tablespoonfuls of melted butter. 

Beat the eggs and add the milk with the salt and sugar. Stir 
in the berries and enough crumbs to make a drop batter. Steam 
one hour. Serve with pudding sauce. About one pound of breid 
crumbs will be needed. 

CHESTNUT CROQUETTES 

Remove the shells and blanch the chestnuts, then cook until 
tender in plenty of water; drain and pass through a sieve; sweeten 



^■^m^^ 4 




MATERIALS FOR DESSERTS 




LACE PAPERS FOR SWEET DISHES. (See page 467.) 




WARLOTTE MOULDS IN PAN OF ICE AND WATER. DOUBLE MOULDING 




LEMON FANCHONETTES. (See page 441O 




STRAWBERRY VOL-AU-VENT. MERINGUE DECORATION. 
(See page 4S2J 



:^3^:^rr^sz:ji!r^ :^!r.5^^^'-~5Sa^8®^ ^^^* - -^fejclfi; " 




PUMPKIN PIE. (See pases 438 and 442.) 



APPLE AND BROWN-BREAD PUDDING 493 

to taste with sugar and water, boiled to a thick syrup (a cup of 
sugar boiled with half a cup of water will be a generous quantity 
for a quart of the sifted chestnuts), flavor with vanilla, and add the 
beaten yolks of three eggs to a quart of pulp, and also a little salt. 
When cold enough to handle shape into croquettes (a pear shape is 
appropriate), egg-and-bread-crumb, finish with a stem of angelica 
root, and fry in deep fat. Serve on a folded napkin with Sabayon 
sauce in a dish apart. To shell and blanch, see page 31. 



CUMBERLAND PUDDING 

6 ounces of stale bread crumbs. 6 ounces of sugar. 

6 ounces of currants. 4 ounces of citron. 

6 ounces of suet. 6 eggs. 

6 ounces of apples. The grated rind and juice of one 

1 teaspoonful of salt. orange. 

Pass the suet, apples, pared and cored, and the citron through 
the food chopper together; add the currants, salt, sugar, and bread 
crumbs (centre of loaf passed through a colander), also when 
thoroughly mixed the beaten yolks of the eggs, diluted with the 
grated rind and juice of the orange; lastly, add the stiff -beaten 
whites of the eggs. Steam four to six hours in a two-quart mould; 
two brick ice cream moulds, each holding a quart, give puddings 
good shape for serving. Serve with lemon, wine, or hard 
sauce. 

APPLE AND BROWN-BREAD PUDDFNQ 

I pint of brown-bread crumbs. 2 tablespoonfuls of flour. 

I cup of suet (fine chopped). i egg. 

I pint of apple, chopped fine. i cup of milk. 

i teaspoonful of salt. i teaspoonful of ginger or other 

I cup of raisins. spice. 

Mix the crumbs and suet and add the apple, salt, and raisins, 
dredged with the flour and the spice. Beat the egg, add the milk, 
and stir into the dry ingredients. Steam two hours in a buttered 
mould. Serve with hard, lemon, or other liquid pudding 
sauce. 



494 PRACTICAL COOKING AND SERVING 

B. HOT PUDDINGS THICKENED WITH UNCOOKED 
INGREDIENTS 

ENGLISH PUDDING 

J cup of butter. i teaspoonful of soda. 

I cup of stoned and cut raisins. i teaspoonful of cloves. 

I cup of molasses. i teaspoonful of cinnamon. 

I cup of milk. i teaspoonful of mace. 

$i cups of flour. 

Cream the butter and add the fruit, the molasses, milk, and 
flour sifted with soda, spices, and a few grains of salt; mix thor- 
oughly and steam in a buttered mould about three hours. Serve 
with hard sauce. 

CHERRY PUDDING 

J cup of butter. J teaspoonful of salt. 

J cup of sugar. 2 teaspoonfuls of baking-powder. 

1 cup of milk. The whites of three eggs. 

2 cups of flour. I cup of stoned cherries. 

Beat the butter to a cream; add the sugar, and alternately the 
milk and flour sifted with the salt and baking-powder, and lastly 
the cherries and whites of eggs, beaten stiff. Steam in a buttered 
pudding dish about an homr and a half. Serve with a sauce, made 
of the cherry juice and sugar thickened with arrowroot. 

FRUIT PUDDING 

1 cup of entire wheat flour. i teaspoonful of mixed spices (mace, 

i teaspoonful of salt. cinnamon, etc.). 

I teaspoonful of baking-powder. 2 teaspoonfuls of melted butter. 

i cup of molasses. i cup of fruit (currants, sultanas, 

I egg- dtron, chopped figs, dates or 

} cup of milk (sweet). prunes). 

Sift together the first four ingredients. Beat the egg, add the 
milk and molasses, and stir into the dry ingredients; then add the 
melted butter and the fniit, either one variety or a combination. 
Steam two and one half hoiurs. Serve vnth hard sauce. 



TAPIOCA CREAM 495 

CARROT PUDDINQ. (ELLEN M. CHANDLER) 

I pound of carrots. J pound of currants. 

I pound of suet. i teaspoonful of ground cinnamon. 

I cup of sugar. i teaspoonful of nutmeg, 

ij cups of flour. J teaspoonful of ground cloves. 

T teaspoonful of salt. 2 teaspoonfuls of baking-powder, 

I pound of raisins. 

Weigh the carrots, after peeling and grating. Mix the suet, 
chopped fine, with the fruit, and then with carrots; then add the 
baking-powder, spices, and flour, sifted together. Steam in a mould 
three hours and a half. Serve with a wine sauce. 



APPLE TAPIOCA PUDDINQ 

6 tart apples. J cup of sugar. 

I cup of tapioca. i teaspoonful of drmamon, or the 
I quart of boiling water. juice and grated rind of one 

i teaspoonful of salt. lemon. 

Sprinkle the tapioca and salt into the boiling water, and cook, 
stirring occasionally, until the tapioca becomes transparent. Core 
and pare the apples and dispose in a buttered baking dish; fill the 
cavities with the sugar and spice, mixed together, and pour the 
tapioca over the whole. Let bake slowly until the apples are tender. 
Stewed prunes, peeled bananas, cooked bag figs and peaches, fresh 
or canned, may be prepared in a similar manner. A layer of fruit, 
then a layer of tapioca, furnishes a satisfactory way of disposing 
the ingredients. Serve hot with cream and sugar. 

TAPIOCA CREAM 

I pint of hot milk. i teaspoonful of salt 

J cup of tapioca. i teaspoonful of vaniUa. 

The yolks of two eggs. The whites of two eggs. 

J cup of sugar. 

Stir the tapioca into the milk and let cook imtil transparent; 
beat the yoUiK, add the sugar and salt and beat again, then stir 
into the tapioca; add the extract and fold into the whites of the 
eggs, beaten until dry. Serve hot or cold, 



496 PRACTICAL COOmNG AND SERVING 

TAPIOCA CUSTARD PUDDING 

4 cups of hot milk. i teaspoonful of salt. 

I cup of tapioca. i tablespoonful of butter. 

3 eggs. 2 teaspoonfuls of vanilla extract. 

1 cup of sugar. 

Cook the tapioca, until transparent, in the hot milk. Beat 
the eggs slightly; add the sugar and salt and stir into the tapioca; 
stir in also the butter and vanilla; turn into a buttered baking dish 
and bake about thirty minutes in a slow oven. Serve hot or cold. 

BAKED TAPIOCA PUDDING WITH FRUIT 

I quart of milk. 2 eggs. 

I cup of currants, sultanas, sliced i teaspoonful of salt, mace and 

citron and cherries. cinnamon. 

} cup of tapioca. 2 tablespoonfuls of butter. 

I cup of sugar. 

Scald the milk with the fruit and stir into it the tapioca and 
sugar, mixed with the salt and spices; let cook until the tapioca is 
transparent, about ten minutes, then add the beaten yolks of the 
eggs and the butter. Turn into a buttered baking dish and let 
bake about fifteen minutes. Cover with a meringue, made of the 
whites of the eggs, one fourth a cup of sugar and half a teaspoonful 
of sugar. Retura to the oven to brown the meringue. Serve hot 
or cold. The whites of the eggs may be added with the yolks, and 
the pudding served hot with hard sauce or a liquid wine sauce. 

BAKED RICE AND MILK PUDDING 

I cup of rice. Cinnamon or nutmeg. 

I cup of sugar. 6 cups of milk. 

I teaspoonful of salt. i to one cup of stoned raisins. 

Blanch the rice and turn into a baking dish; add the othet in- 
gredients and bake in a very slow oven Ulree or four hours. Stir 
two or three times, during tiie first hour, to keep the raisins from 
settling to the bottom. Cover with a buttered paper, to keep the 
top from becoming too brown. If the pudding looks at all dry, add 
another cup of rich milk fifteen or twenty minutes before talking 
from the oven. The grains of rice should be whole, each sur- 
rounded by a creamy liquid. 



AUNT SALLIE'S FLIRTS 497 

INDIAN TAPIOCA 

5 cup of tapioca. 2 tablespoonfuls of butter. 

J cup of Indian meal. I teaspoonful of salt. 

I quart of scalded milk. ij cups of cold milk. 

I cup of molasses. 

Mix together the tapioca and meal and stir while sprinkling into 
the scalded milk. Stir and cook until the tapioca becomes trans- 
parent, then stir into the molasses, salt, and butter, and turn into 
a buttered baking dish. Pour over the top a cup and a half of 
cold milk, and set in the oven without stirring. Bake about an 
hour. Serve with or without cream. 

INDIAN SUET PUDDING (COLONIAL) 

I quart of hot milk. i teaspoonful of salt. 

I cup of Indian meal. j teaspoonful of ginger. 

1 cup of suet,. chopped fine. § teaspoonful of cinnamon. 

I cup of molasses. i pint of cold milk. 

1 egg. I cup of cold water. 

Stir the meal into the hot milk and add the other ingredients 
except the cold milk and water; add the egg, well beaten, last. 
Turn into a buttered baking dish and pour the cold milk and water 
over the top, and, without stirring these in, bake very slowly three 
hours. Serve plain, or with cream and sugar. 

BAKED INDIAN PUDDING 

I pint of milk, scalded. 5 cup of molasses. 

4 tablespoonfuls of Indian meal. 5 teaspoonful of salt. 

I cup of cold water. i teaspoonful of cinnamon. 

1 cup of sugar. § teaspoonful of ginger. 

2 eggs. -J cup of milk. 

Mix the meal with the cup of cold water and stir into the hot 
milk; add the other ingredients, except the half cup of milk. Bake 
in a buttered pudding dish half an hour, then pour on the half cup 
of milk and bake without stirring two hours. 

AUNT SALLIE'S FLIRTS (NOODLES) 

J egg. Flour. a teaspoonful of salt. 

Break an egg into a cup, add the salt and quickly stir in flour 
with a spoon until no more can be easily added. Turn on to a 



498 PRACTICAL COOKING AND SERVING 

floured board and add flour until the mixture is of a consistency to 
roll out. Divide the dough into three pieces and roll each thinner, 
if possible, than paper; cut into squares or strips and fry an instant 
in hot fat. They should be a very delicate brown. Sprinkle with 
powdered sugar and serve at once. Two people, one to fry and one 
to sprinkle with sugar, are needed to prepare this dish, as every- 
thing depends upon quick work. If a larger number of "flirts" be 
required than is provided in the recipe, do not double the recipe, 
mix again. Use but one egg at a time. This in reality is noodle 
paste. 

STRAWBERRY, BLACKBERRY, PEACH OR ORANQE 
SHORTCAKES 

i\ cups of flour. I cup of butter. 

^ cup of cornstarch. \ teaspoonful of salt. 

4 level teaspoonfuls of baking- Milk as needed, 
powder. 

Sift together the flour, cornstarch, baking-powder, and salt, and 
work in the butter with a knife, pastry fork or fingers; add milk, 
a little in a place, to mix a rather soft dough. Divide the dough 
in halves, and pat out to fit two tins; or bake in one tin, one round 
above the other, first spreading the lower round generously with 
butter. Bake separately, if needed, and butter the cakes. Put 
together with fruit mixed with sugar. Garnish with cream and 
fruit. Two baskets of strawberries or raspberries, or other fruit 
in the same proportion, are required. 

BANANA SHORTCAKE 

5- cup of butter. 2^ teaspoonfuls (level) of baking- 

1 cup of sugar. powder. 

2 eggs. 4 bananas . 

\ cup of milk. Cream filling, 

ij cups of flour. Meringue. 

Mix in the same manner as a cake. Bake in a square layer-cake 
pan. When baked dispose on the top peeled bananas, cut in halves 
lengthwise; cover with thick custard filling (EngUsh cream) and 
meringue. Brown delicately in the oven (it should take about six 
minutes) and serve with hot jelly sauce. The whites of three eggs 
and one third a cup of sugar will make the meringue. Put in place, 
with a pastry bag and tube, directly over the halves of banana, 
thus marking the cake into divisions for cutting. 



FRITTERS 499 

GERMAN PUFFS 

J cup of butter. 2 cups of flour. 

I cup of sugar. J teaspoonfuls of soda. 

The yolks of three eggs. 2 level teaspoonfuls of cream-of- 

I cup of mUk. tartar. 

Mix in the same manner as a cake. Bake in a well-buttered and 
heated mufiSn pan about twenty minutes. Serve with Sabayon 
sauce. 

COTTAQE PUDDING 

\ cup of butter. | cup of milk. 

J cup of sugar. i| cups of flour. 

I egg, well beaten. 2J teaspoonful of baking-powder. 

Mix as a cake and bake in an agate muffin pan. Serve with 
lemon, wine or strawberry sauce. 

FRITTERS 

Fritters are used as an entree and also as a part of the sweet coui-se. 
The fruit or other article which gives the specific name to the fritter 
is usually cut in slices, dipped into batter, and, when well coated, 
fried in deep fat. Fritters are served sprinkled with powdered 
sugar or with a sauce. To mix fritter batter, sift the flour and salt 
together; make a hollow in the centre and break in the eggs un- 
beaten; pour in a little milk and stir, adding milk gradually as the 
flour is taken up and liquid is needed; when about half of the 
quantity of milk has been added, beat the mixture until it is full of 
air bubbles, then beat in the rest of the milk and let stand an hour 
before using. Another method of preparing fritter batter is as 
follows: beat the eggs until whites and yolks are well mixed, then 
add the milk and stir together into the flour and salt sifted together. 
A third method is to add the yolks with the milk, and the stiff 
beaten whites just before using. 

There are several points which it were well to keep in mind when 
mixing batters: 

1. Beat thoroughly before adding all the liquid, as it is difficult 
to beat a thin batter smooth. 

2. A batter containing few eggs needs to be made thicker with 
flour than one containing more eggs. 



Soo PRACTICAL COOKING AND SERVING 

3. If possible a batter should stand at least an hour before 
using; several hours in cold weather, or over night, is preferable. 

4. When the egg is separated and the white is beaten stiff be- 
fore adding, do not mk with the other ingredients until ready to 
use. 

APPLE FRITTERS 

li cups of flour. I egg. 

2 teaspoonfuls of baking-powder. -| cup of milk. 
i teaspoonful of salt. 2 sour apples. 

Sift together the flour, baking-powder and salt; beat the eggs, 
add the milk and stir into the dry ingredients. Pare, core and cut 
the apples in small pieces and stir into the batter after it has stood 
an horn" or more. Drop by spoonfuls into deep fat and fry to a 
delicate brown. Serve as a dessert with maraschino or currant 
jelly sauce. 

SCANDINAVIAN ROSETTES 

Beat four eggs without separating. Add one pint of milk, and 
stir gradually into three cups of flour, sifted with half a teaspoonful 
of salt and two tablespoonfuls of sugar. Beat very thoroughly 
when half the Uquid has been added. The eggs might be added 
with half the milk, as all the milk may not be needed. Heat the 
rosette iron in hot fat. Dip into the batter to half its height, and 
return to the hot fat until the cake is cooked a deUcate brown. 
Shake from the iron on to soft paper. Serve, sprinkled with 
powdered sugar, as a dessert dish, or spread the rosettes with jam 
or preserves and ornament with whipped cream. The batter should 
stand an hour after being mixed before the rosettes are fried. In 
winter it may be kept for days, and used as occasion requires, either 
for this or other purposes, as to coat quarters of banana for frying. 

QOLDEN BALL FRITTERS (CHOU PASTE) 

i cup of boiling water. Crating of lemon rind. 

3 level tablespoonfuls of butter. 2 eggs. 

i cup- of flour. 

Melt the butter in the boiling water, add the flour and cook and 
stir until the mixture leaves the sides of the pan; add the lemon 
rind and turn into a cold dish, then beat in the eggs one at a time, 



COFFEE SOUFFLE 501 

beating the first in very thorotighly before the second is added; 
then drop the dough into hot fat by the teaspoonful. Stir the fat 
when the batter is dropped into it, thus causing the fritter to take 
the shape of a ball. Serve hot, roUed in powdered sugar, or with 
maple sj^up, or common sugar syrup, flavored to taste. 

HOT SOUFFLES, OR SOUFFLE PUDDINGS 

Souffles quite generally appear under the list of puddings. In 
reality, if they are to be considered puddings at all, they should be 
classed by themselves, in that they are distinguished from ordinary 
puddings by the fact that raw egg, which requires little cooking, 
is added to a foundation that has been already well cooked. This 
foundation is practically an ordinary sauce like a white sauce. The 
egg is beaten light and folded into the mixture, which is then baked 
with care, to insure a very light texture. Careme advises that 
souffles be made broad, and not high — that is, twelve inches by 
three or four — probably this advice is good as thus less weight is 
held up by the delicate cells. Souffles are successful only when they 
are light and spongy, and fine rather than coarse grained. In 
baking let the oven be moderately hot. Surroimd the dish by a 
band of oiled or buttered paper, to afford room for the rising of the 
mixture. Fasten the band together with a drop of mucilage or 
with a pin before the mixture is turned into the souffle dish. The 
different varieties of souffles take their names from some distin- 
guishing flavor or ingredient (see also Fish and Meat Souffles, under 
the chapter on Entrees). 

COFFEE SOUFFLE. (MARIETTA McPHERSON) 

3 tablespoonfuls of butter. J teaspoonful of salt. 

3 tablespoonfuls of flour. The yolks of three eggs. 

1 cup of black coffee. The whites of three eggs, 

i cup of sugar. 

Make a sauce of the first three ingredients — i. e., melt the butter 
and in it cook the flour imtU frothy, then add the coffee gradually 
and stir until thick and smooth. Remove from the fire, add the 
sugar, salt, and yolks of eggs, beaten until thick and smooth, 
fold in the whites of the eggs, beaten very stiff, pour the 
mixture into a buttered baking dish, and bake twenty-five 
minutes in a moderate oven. Serve with coffee sauce. 



502 PRACTICAL COOKING AND SERVING 

CUSTARD SOUFFLE 

3 tablespoonfuls of butter. The yolks of four eggs. 

3 tablespoonfuls of flour. The whites of four eggs. 

I cup of milk. i teaspoonful of salt. 

J cup of sugar. 

Prepare as coffee souffle. Serve with Sabayon, creamy or straw- 
berry sauce. 

CHERRY souffle' PUDDING 

i cup of butter. 4 ounces, or one cup of bread 

J cup of flour. crumbs. 

ij cups of milk. The grated rind of one half a lemon. 

I cup of cream. 3 eggs. 

i teaspoonful of salt. 6 ounces of stoned cherries. 

J cup of sugar. Glac6 cherries. 

Melt the butter, add the flour and salt and cook until frothy; 
add the milk and cream gradually, let cook a few moments and then 
add the crumbs, the grated rind and the yolks of the eggs, beaten 
and mixed with the sugar, and lastly the stoned cherries and the 
whites of the eggs, whisked to a stiff froth. Turn into a buttered 
mould, decorated with glace cherries, and steam an hour and a half. 
Turn on to a hot dish and serve with wine sauce or a fruit pur6e. 
This souffle may be baked and served from the baking dish. Is 
best baked. 

MACAROON souffle' 

I dozen macaroons. French fruit, chopped fine. 

I cup of milk. Whipped cream. 

3 eggs. 

Scald the macaroons in the milk, pour over the beaten yolks of 
the eggs, and cook over hot water until thickened slightly; fold in 
the whites of the eggs, beaten stiff, and bake in a buttered mould, 
set in a pan of hot water, about twenty minutes. Turn from the 
mould, sprinkle the top with the fruit, and surround with the 
whipped cream. 

COCOANUT souffle (BOSTON COOKING SCHOOL) 

li cups of milk. i tablespoonful of butter. 

1 cup of sugar. i cup of cocoanut. 

3 tablespoonfuls of cornstarch. The whites of four eggs. 



RUM OMELET 503 

Mix the cornstarch, sugar and cocoanut, and stir into the hot 
milk; let cook ten minutes, stirrmg occasionally; add the butter 
and fold in the whites of the eggs. Bake in individual moulds, 
buttered and sprinkled with sugar, about twelve minutes. Let 
the moulds stand in a dish of hot water. Turn from the moulds, 
put a spoonful of strawberry jam upon the top and pour around the 
souffles a pint of boiled custard, made with yolks of the eggs. Put 
the jelly in place on serving, to avoid displacement while they are 
being brought to the dining-room. 

SPONQE BATTER PUDDING 

ij cups of hot milk. The yolks of four eggs. 

J cup of flour. i cup of sugar. 

i cup of cold milk. 3 tablespoonfuls of butter, 

i teaspoonful of salt. The whites of four eggs. 

Stir the flour, salt and cold milk together until smooth, then 
cook in the hot milk ten minutes, add the butter and yolks of eggs, 
beaten with the sugar, and fold in the whites of the eggs, beaten 
stiS. Bake in a well-buttered pudding dish about thirty minutes. 
The heat of the oven should be moderate and the dish should stand 
in hot water during the baking (see Souffles). Serve with Sabayon, 
wine or creamy sauce. 

OMELET SOUFFLfi 

5 eggs. The grated rind of one half a lemon. 
3 tablespoonfuls of powdered 2 tablespoonfuls of lemon juice. 

sugar. I teaspoonful of salt. 

Beat the yolks of the eggs until light colored and thick; add the 
sugar gradually, then the grated rind and lemon juice; pour this 
mixture over the whites of the eggs, beaten with the salt until dry, 
and cut and fold the two together. Turn into a buttered baking 
dish, or into individual cases, and hake in a quick oven imtil well 
puffed and of a delicate brown color. Serve at once with hard or 
Sabayon sauce. For directions in respect to omelets, see chapter 
on eggs. 

RUM OMELET 

6 eggs. 4 tablespoonfuls of rum or lemon 
3 tablespoonfuls of powdered juice and water. 

sugar. 3 taUespoonfuls of butter. 

} teaspoonful of salt. J cup of hot Jamaica rum, 



504 PRACTICAL COOKING AND SERVING 

Prepare and cook as any omelet (see chapter on eggs), letting the 
omelet be rather underdone. Turn on to a serving-dish, pour over 
the rum, light and send to the table while burning. 

PINEAPPLE OMELET 

2 tablespoonfuls of butter. i cup of sugar. 

2 tablespoonfuls of flour. i teaspoonful of lemon juice. 
i teaspoonful of salt. S eggs. 

1 cup of grated pineapple. 2 tablespoonfuls of butter. 

Cook the flour and salt in the bubbhng butter; add the pine- 
apple (juice and pulp) gradually, the sugar and the lemon juice, and 
let cook ten minutes, then remove from the fire and stir into the 
yolks of the eggs, beaten very light; fold in the whites of the eggs, 
beaten dry, and turn into the frying-pan in which the butter is 
melted. Cook as a puffy omelet, turn on to the serving-dish and 
sift powdered sugar thickly over the top. Score diagonally with 
a hot iron. Serve surrounded with a second cup of grated pine- 
apple, cooked with one fourth cup of sugar, to which a tablespoon- 
ful of lemon juice has been added, to bring out the flavor of the 
pineapple. If preferred, garnish with quarter slices of pineapple, 
saturated with hot syrup and flavored to taste. Rum is con- 
sidered the proper flavor. Oranges, strawberries or raspberries 
may take the place of the pineapple, and any one of these may be 
added to a plain French or puffy omelet. In using berries as a 
garnish, mix with powdered sugar; if raspberry seeds be objection- 
able, crush the berries and press through a sieve, then mix with 
sugar. Oranges should be sliced. 

OMELET WITH STRAWBERRY JAM AND CHERRIES 

3 eggs. I tablespoonful of butter. 

2 tablespoonfuls of maraschino. Strawberry jam. 

i cup of maraschino cherries. Cherries and maraschino. 

Beat the yolks very light and add the maraschino and the cher- 
ries cut in pieces; fold in the whites of the eggs, beaten dry, and 
turn into a hot omelet pan, in which the butter has been melted. 
Spread the mixture evenly and let cook a moment on the cover, 
to set the eggs, then put into the oven until cooked. A knife cut 
down into the centre of the omelet will indicate this; the egg needs 
be set, but only lightly. Score the omelet at right angles to the 
handle of the pan, spread one half lightly with the jam, turn on to 
the serving-dish and surround with a narrow wreath of jam, diluted 
with maraschino from the cherry bottle, and cherries. 



CHAPTER XXII 
Sweet Sauces 

SYNOPSIS OF CHAPTER 

/ Sauces thickened with starchy mateiiab. 
[Liquid. J Sauces thickened with egg emulsion. 
( Fruit juice sauces. 



Sweet Sauces. 



(Hard. 
^Solid. (Fruit jellies. 

Sauces for sweet dishes may be considered as solid or liquid. 
The solid sauces include "hard sauce," so called, and the various 
fruit jellies. The Uquid sauces make up the larger division, and 
may be subdivided according to the material that gives them con- 
sistency, as a starchy material, egg emulsion, sugar syrup alone, 
or sugar in conjimction with a fruit puree. Sauces served with 
ices are given under the subject of frozen desserts. 

SAUCES THICKENED WITH STARCHY MATERIAL 

All sauces of this description may be made with white roux as 
described on page 21. By preference, however, the starchy in- 
gredient, flour, cornstarch or arrowroot, is mixed with the sugar 
by sifting, and the grains of starch, thus separated, are stirred 
into a hot liquid, milk, water or fruit juice. Flavoring is added at 
pleasure, and a little butter just at the point of serving. Starch, 
here, as always, needs thorough cooking to be palatable. Add 
flavor and butter afterward. 

MARASCHINO SAUCE 

Sift together one teaspoonful of arrowroot and one third cup of 
granulated sugar, pour on two thirds cup of boiling water and cook 



5o6 PRACTICAL COOKING AND SERVING 

five minutes; add half a tablespoonful of butter, one fourtt cup 
of maraschino cherries cut in halves, half a cup of maraschino syrup, 
and a teaspoonful of lemon juice. Cornstarch or flour may be used, 
but the arrowroot gives a clearer and less opaque sauce. Serve with 
baked bananas, banana or apple fritters, custard souflEle, German 
puffs, or cottage pudding. 

MOCK CREAM 

(to be used in place of cream on boiled rice, etc.) 

Scald one pint of milk in a double-boiler; stir into this two tea- 
spoonfuls of cornstarch, mixed with two tablespoonfuls of sugar, 
and let cook ten minutes. Wlien cold and ready to serve add a 
teaspoonful of vanilla and the whites of two eggs, beaten until 
frothy. 

BRANDY SAUCE FOR STEAMED PUDDINGS 

Sift together one fourth cup of flour and one cup of sugar; stir 
in a pint of boiling water and let cook fifteen minutes, stirring con- 
stantly at first, and occasionally afterward; add one fourth cup 
of butter in little bits, beating constantly, meanwhile. Flavor 
with a teaspoonful of vanilla or brandy to taste. Brown sugar 
gives a differently flavored sauce. If this be used make a white 
roux with the butter and flour, add the water and then the sugar 
and flavoring. 

TUTTI-FRUTTI SAUCE FOR BAKED BANANAS, FRITTERS, 

ETC. 

Remove the stems from half a cup of sultana raisins and wash 
in cold water; add one fourth cup, each, of chopped citron and 
blanched almonds and a cup of boiling water and let simmer an 
hour, or until the raisins are tender. Ten minutes before serving, 
stir in a level teaspoonful of cornstarch, sifted with three fourths 
cup of sugar (there should now be a generous cup of water with 
the fruit), and let cook six or eight minutes. Add a tablespoonful 
of butter and lemon or vanilla if desired. 

BANANA SAUCE 

4 ripe bananas. i cup of water. 

3 oranges. 2 level teaspoonfuls of anrowroot or 

1 tart apple, thin-sliced. cornstarch, 

i cup of sugar. 



OR.\NGE SABAYON SAUCE 507 

Pass the pulp of the bananas through a ricer or sieve and -add the 
pulp of the oranges, the apple, sliced, and the water; when boiling 
stir in the sugar, thoroughly mixed with the cornstarch, and stir 
until the boiling point is reached, then let simmer ten minutes; 
strain and serve. 

LEMON OR ORANQE SAUCE 

2 teaspoonfuls of cornstarch. Juice and grated rind of one lemon 

I cup of sugar. or orange. 

I pint of boiling water. 2 tablespoonfuls of butter. 

See "Sauce Thickened with Starchy Materials." 

ROYAL SAUCE 

a teaspoonfuls of cornstarch or | cup of jelly or jam. 

arrowroot. The juice of one half a lemon. 

Cold water to pour. i tablespoonful of brandy at dis- 
I cup of boiling water. cretion. 

Cook the cornstarch, diluted with water, in the boiling water 
five minutes; add the jelly or jam, beaten smooth, and let simmer 
three or foiu: minutes; add sugar, if needed, and the lemon juice; 
strain and serve. 

SAUCES THICKENED WITH EQG EMULSION 

For Boiled Custard see page 460. 

SABAYON SAUCE FOR CUSTARD SOUFFL§, COTTAGE 
PUDDINQ, ETC. 

In the upper part of a double-boiler put one whole egg and two 
yolks and beat until well mixed; then add half a cup of sugar and 
beat thoroughly. Set over very hot, but not actually boiling, water 
and beat while half a cup of sherry wine is gradually stirred in. 
When the sauce has thickened slightly add a teaspoonful of lemon 
juice, and turn into a cold dish to arrest the cooking. Serve at 
once. This is a rich and most delicious sauce. Care needs be 
taken to avoid curdHng the egg. Lift the saucepan from the water, 
occasionally, which should not reach the boiling point. 

ORANQE SABAYON SAUCE 

In the upper part of a double-boiler cream one fourth cup of 
butter; add the yolks of four eggs, one at a time, and beat in Uior- 



So8 PRACTICAL COOKING AND SERVING 

oughly;. then add one fourth cup of sugar and, when all are 
blended, four tablespoonfuls of cream, and cook over hot water, 
stirring constantly. When thickened slightly add one fourth 
cup of orange juice and one teaspoonful of lemon juice. 

COLD COFFEE SAUCE. (MARIETTA MCPHERSON) 

(for cx)ffee souffle, filling foe cream puffs, etc.) 

3 eggs. J cup of clear black coffee. 

i cup of sugar. I cup of double cream 

A few grains of salt. 

Beat the eggs, add the sugar and salt and cook in the coffee in- 
fusion as a boiled custard. When the mixture coats the spoon 
strain into a cold dish, and when cold and ready to serve fold in the 
cream beaten stiff. 

COLD CHOCOLATE SAUCE 

(for chocolate, vanilla or custard souffle or other hot 

pudding) 

3 eggs. I cup of hot milk. 

i cup of sugar. § cup of double cream. 

J ounce of chocolate. J teaspoonful of ground cinnamon. 

2 tablespoonfuls of hot water. § teaspoonful of vanilla extract. 

Melt the chocolate, add a teaspoonful of sugar and the hot water, 
and cook until smooth and glossy; then add to the milk and con- 
tinue as for cold coffee sauce. 

MOUSSELINE SAUCE (HOT) 

Beat the yolks of five eggs very light; add one fourth cup of 
sugar and one fourth cup of maraschino and beat while cooking 
over hot water; when thickened, remove from the fire and fold in 
the whites of two eggs, beaten dry, and reheat, if necessary, to set 
the white of egg. The sauce should be very light like a souffle. 
Good with any hot pudding. Serve in a dish apart. 

COLD MOUSSELINE SAUCE WITH FRUIT PUREE 

Boil half a cup of water and three fourths cup of sugar to the 
thread degree, then stir in a fine stream on to the beaten yolks of 



YELLOW SAUCE 509 

six eggs, beating constantly meanwhile; add two tablespoonfuis of 
Kirsch and a half cup of strawberry or raspberry pur6e (fresh 
berries mashed and passed through a sieve). Set the dish on ice 
and stir with a whisk until cold, then fold in three fourths cup of 
whipped and drained cream and the whites of three eggs, beaten 
dry. Let stand on ice until ready to serve. Suitable for ices and 
cold puddings. (This sauce may also be frozen and served as a 
parfait.) 

CREAMY SAUCE 

Boil one cup of sugar and half a cup of water to a thick syrup 
(six or eight minutes), and pour in a fine stream on to the white of 
an egg, beaten until foamy but not dry. Set the sauce into a dish 
of ice water and beat until cold, then fold in a cup of whipped 
cream. Flavor to taste. 

CREAMY SAUCE, NO. 2 

(charlotte eusse cream) 

Flavor one pint of double cream with wine or a teaspoonful of 
vanilla and beat solid with a whisk or Dover egg-beater. Beat 
the whites of two eggs until dry; fold in one cup of powdered sugar 
and beat them Ughtly into the whipped cream. Serve very cold 
with blanc-mange, baked apples, compotes, etc. 

LEMON SAUCE 

Cream half a cup of butter, add gradually one cup of powdered 
sugar, and beat until light; add the white of two eggs, one at a 
time, beating steadily. When about ready to serve set the sauce- 
pan, containing the sauce, in boiling water over the fire; add one 
fourth cup of lemon juice and one fourth cup of boiling water 
and stir imtil creamy. Remove to a cooler dish and serve at once. 
The flavor of lemon will be heightened by grating a little of the 
yellow rind into the butter and sugar. 

YELLOW SAUCE 

Beat the yolk of an egg until light, and the white until foamy; 
add half a cup of sugar to the yolli, then fold in the white; add half 
a. teaspoonful of vanilla, and one cup of scalded milk; mix thor- 
oughly and serve. 



Sio PRACTICAL COOKING AND SERVING 

FROTHY SAUCE 

Cream half a cup of butter and a cup of sugar and add the 
frothed white of an egg; stir in half a cup of boiling water, two teble- 
spoonfuls of wine and a teaspoonful of vanilla extract. 

FRUIT JUICE SAUCE 

Put the fruit in a jar with from half to a whole cup of water to a 
pint of frviit, cover and let stand on a trivet, in a pail of water 
brought slowly to the boiling point, half an hour or more, or until 
the juice flows freely. Pass through a cheesecloth, and thicken one 
pint of juice with half to a whole cup of sugar mixed with one or 
two teaspoonfuls of cornstarch. Cook from five to ten minutes, 
skimming as needed. The sugar is often used without the corn- 
starch. 

COLD STRAWBERRY SAUCE 

Hull, wash, and drain a basket of ripe strawberries and press 
them through a ricer. Boil together three fourths cup of sugar 
and half a cup of water ten minutes; let cool, add the strawberry 
pulp and, if desired, half a teaspoonful of vanilla. 

APRICOT SAUCE 

Boil together ten minutes half a cup of apricot marmalade, two 
tablespoonfuls of sugar, and four tablespoonfuls of water; add the 
juice of half a lemon and pour over and around a chocolate Bavarian 
cream or a hot mould of brioche. 

CURRANT JELLY SAUCE 

Boil one cup of granulated sugar and one third cup of water, 
without stirring, four or five minutes; add four (level) tablespoonfuls 
of currant jelly. As soon as the sauce boils again, add the juice of 
a lemon and strain through a fine sieve. If a very fine sauce be 
desired, add a handful of preserved or candied cherries. 

CHERRY SAUCE (HOT OR COLD PUDDINGS) 

Simmer one cup of stoned cherries, one cup of claret, two table- 
spoonfuls of currant jelly, the yellow peel of a lemon, an inch of 
cinnamon bark and one fourth cup of sugar, until reduced nearly 
one half; remove the cinnamon bark and lemon peel before serving. 



CARAMEL SAUCE 511 

BANANA PURfeE FOR BRIOCHE TIMBALES, ETC. 

Press the pulp of two bananas, the juice and pulp of an orange 
and one fourth cup of apricot marmalade through a sieve; add 
one fourth cup of sugar and heat over boiling water; when thor- 
oughly scalded let cool and, before serving, add, at discretion, one 
tablespoonful, each, of maraschino and brandy. Serve with cold 
or iced desserts. 

COLD ORANQE SAUCE 

I cup of sugar. The juice and pulp of four oranges. 

I cup of water. The juice of half a lemon. 

I teaspoonful of gelatine. i teaspoonful of vanilla extract. 

3 tablespoonfula of cold water. 

Boil the sugar and water ten minutes; add the gelatine, softened 
in the cold water, let cool and strain into the fruit juice; add the 
extract, or cook a vanilla bean in the syrup. Cool before using. 

HARD SAUCE (FOR HOT PUDDING) 

Cream half a cup of butter and add very gradually a cup of sugar, 
beating between each addition; when all the sugar has been added 
and the mixture is very light, add, one by one, the whites of two 
eggs, and when again very light add the flavoring drop by drop. 
A teaspoonful of vanilla, a tablespoonful of brandy, rum or wine, 
or a grating of nutmeg, are preferred. The egg whites may be 
omitted. This sauce may be shaped in a neat mould on a small 
choice dish, or it may be disposed in a wreath around a dark fruit 
pudding. Arranged in the latter fashion, a silver fork may be used 
to give a scroll-like effect to the surface. 

HARD SAUCE WITH FRUIT 

Prepare as above, using the white of one egg, then beat in very 
gradually one cup of mashed strawberries or raspberries. The 
raspberries should be strained, to eliminate the seeds. These 
fruits are favorites, but others may be used. 

CARAMEL SAUCE 

Put half a cup of sugar into a saucepan over the fire, and stir 
the sugar until it melts and becomes of light brown color; add half 
a cup of boiling water and allow the liquid to simmer five minutes. 



SI 2 PRACTICAL COOKING AND SERVING 

CARAMEL SAUCE, NO, 2 

Boil three fourths cup of sugar, an inch of stick cinnamon, two 
cloves, a thin paring of yellow rind of lemon, and a cup of boiling 
water ten minutes; strain over one fourth cup of sugar, cooked to 
the caramel degree, let boil two or three minutes and then keep hot 
until the caramel is dissolved. Serve, either with or without three 
tablespoonfuls of sherry, with baked custards, cabinet pudding, 
boiled rice, etc. 

BURNT CREAM SAUCE 

In a small saucepan, over the iire, stir half a cup of sugar until 
it becomes a golden-brown caramel; add one pint of thin cream and 
set over hot water until the caramel liquifies. 

MERINGUE (FOR PUDDINGS AND PIES) 

Use two tablespoonfuls of granulated sugar for each white of 
•gg, and half a teaspoonful of flavoring extract for each four whites 
of eggs. Beat the whites until stiff, but not quite dry — whites of 
eggs are beaten "dry" when the bowl containing them may be 
inverted without disturbing the contents; beat in the sugar gradu- 
ally and continue the beating until the mixture is very firm and 
glossy. The surface upon which the merginue is to be spread 
should first be cooled somewhat. The meringue may be spread 
evenly, or piled in a dome shape in the centre. A part of the mix- 
ture may be reserved and put in place mth a pastry bag and tube. 
Cook in a moderate oven from eight to twelve minutes, according 
to the thickness of the meringue. 

RUM SAUCE FOR BABA AND PLUM PUDDING 

s cups of granulated sugar. J cup of water 

I cup of rum. 

Boil the sugar and water to a syrup of good consistency, then add 
the rum. This is enough sauce for baba made with four eggs. 

PINEAPPLE SAUCE FOR BABA 

Boil two cups of grated pineapple, the juice of half a lemon and 
one cup and a half of sugar five or six minutes. 



WINE SAUCE FOR PLUM PUDDING 513 

COLD SABAYON SAUCE ROYAL 

Beat one whole egg and two yolks; add half a cup of sugar and 
beat again; add half a cup of sherry and stir and cook over hot 
water until thickened. Add a teaspoonful of lemon juice and let 
cool. When ready to serve fold in from half to three fourths cup 
of cream, beaten firm. 

WINE SAUCE FOR PLUM PUDDING 

Beat half a cup of butter to a cream; beat in the yolks of two 
eggs, then very gradually beat in one fourth cup of wine. The 
wine should be added a few drops at a time. The finished sauce 
should be smooth and thick as cream. 



CHAPTER XXin 
Fruit, Fresh and Cooked, for Immediate Use 

FRESH FRUIT AND ITS SERVICE 

"If strawberries be not in season, buy them not at a great price. It Is 
neither art nor courtesy to invite your friends to be 'eating money,' as the 
saying is. A guest should be led to think always that her meal tasted pleas- 
antly, never that its cost was disagreeable." 



Refiue Water 

Per Per 

cent. cent. . 

Apples as o 63. 

Apricots . ...... 6.0 7g. 

Bananas 35.0 48. 

Blackberries .... 86 . 

Cherries 5.0 76 . 

Cranberries .... 88 . 

Currants 85 . 

Figs 79. 

Grapes 25.0 58. 

Huckleberries 81 . 

Lemons 30 . o 62 . 

Muskmelons.. . .50.0 44. 

Orajiges 27.0 63. 

Pears 10. o 76. 

Pineapple (edi- 
ble portion) . 89. 

Plums 5.0 74. 

Primes 5.8 75, 

Raspberries (red) ... 85 . 

Strawberries.... 5,0 85. 

Watermelons 59 . 4 37 . 



>J OF 
kTWATE 


TKESB 

r) 


Fiurr. 


AS PURCHASED. 


Protein 
Per 
cent. 


Fat 

Per 

cent. 


Carbo- 
hydrates 
Per 

cent. 


Ash 
Per 
cent. 


peilb. 
Calories. 


•3 


•3 


10.8 


3 


220 


I .0 




12.6 


•5 


22s 


.8 


■4 


14-3 


.6 


300 


13 


1.0 


10.9 


•S 


270 


•9 


.8 


iS-9 


.6 


34S 


■4 


.6 


9.9 


.2 


"S 


i-S 




12.8 


•7 


26s 


IS 




18.8 


.6 


380 


1 .0 


1.2 


14.4 


•4 


.3.35 


.6 


.6 


14.6 


■3 


345 


•7 


•5 


S-9 


■ 4 


I4S 


■3 




4.6 


3 


90 


.6 


.1 


8.5 


■4 


170 


■5 


■4 


12.7 


■4 


360 


■4 


■3 


9-7 


•3 


2O0 


■9 




19. 1 


•S 


370 


•7 




17-4 


•S 


335 


I.O 




12.6 


.6 


255 


•9 


.6 


7.0 


.6 


175 


3 


, t 


i 7 


■3 


140 



514 



PROPER TIME TO EAT FRUIT 515 

DRIED FRUIT 













Carbo- 








Refuse 


Water 


Protein 


Fat 


hydrates 


Asb 


Fuel val. 




Per 


Per 


Per 


Per 


Per 


Per 


per lb. 




cent. 


cent. 


cent. 


cent. 


cent. 


cent. 


Calories. 


Currants. .. 




17.2 


2-4 


1-7 


74.2 


4-5 


1 495 


Dates 


. . . .10.0 


13.8 


19 


2 5 


70.6 


1 .2 


1.450 


Figs 




18.8 


4 3 


•3 


74.2 


2-4 


1-475 


Prunes 


....IS.O 


19.0 


1.8 




62.2 


2,0 


1 . 190 


Raisins .... 


. . . .10.0 


131 


2.3 


3.0 


68.5 


31 


I -455 



As WILL be seen by a glance at the table showing the composition 
of various kinds of fruit, the food value of fruit depends upon the 
carbohydrates, which is chiefly in the form of sugar. In but a few 
varieties does the proteid principle reach one per cent. The date 
and plantain, of which the banana is a variety, contain, however, 
sufficient nutriment to sustain life. But fruit is valuable for other 
than its nutritive qualities; eaten freely it introduces large quanti- 
ties of water into the system, as well as salts and organic acids that 
improve the quality of the blood. It also gives a relish to plainer 
foods. The largest use of fruit is with some form of starch in sweet 
dishes, but it is quite as acceptable, after a taste for it has been 
acquired without sugar, with meats. 

PROPER TIME TO EAT FRUIT, DIETETICALLV 
CONSIDERED 

When fruit is eaten uncooked, for special dietetic purposes, the 
effect is always more pronounced if it be taken alone an hour before 
the meal, or between meals. An exception would seem wise in the 
case of berries containing hard seeds; these are likely to cause less 
intestinal irritation when eaten with bread or other bulky food. 
Taken at the close of a meal the water in fruit is liable to interfere 
with digestion until such time as it can be absorbed by the lining 
of the stomach. 

The diuretic influence of fruit is in part due to the water in com- 
position, but principally to the presence of organic acids and salts, 
which stimulate the circulation of the blood and also the action of 
the kidneys. 

The laxative action of fruits is partly — but not wholly — due 
to indigestible and irritating substances, as the seeds of figs and 
berries and the skins of prunes. Children, and older people who 



5i6 PRACTICAL COOKING AND SERVING 

are not in robust health, need avoid the seeds and tough skins even 
of cooked fruit, nor should they indulge in friiit of coarse fibre. 

To be wholesome fruit needs be ripe but not overripe. As fruit 
ripens, the starch in composition is changed into levulose or glucose, 
substances more assimilable than starch, and pectin, a carbo- 
hydrate (principle), which occasions the jellying of fruit when it is 
boiled, is formed. The tannin and vegetable acids are also changed 
and the fruit becomes less astringent. If frxiit be overripe, bacteria, 
which have already begun the tearing down process, are introduced 
into the alimencary tract, and malfermentation with pain, cramps, 
nausea and other attendant ills, is likely to ensue. 

TO SERVE UNCOOKED FRUIT 

Fruit is most inviting when it is fresh-gathered, or picked with 
the heat of the sun upon it; exception is to be made in the case of 
melons, which are best when thoroughly chilled. Green leaves are 
needed in arranging fruit for the table or sideboard. In case the 
natural leaves of the fruit itself are not admissible, grape, currant 
or laurel leaves may be called into requisition. In this connection 
it might be noticed that time was when fruit was made a notable 
feature in table decoration; but at the present day — save at 
Thanksgiving or harvest spreads — fruits, except, perhaps, a basket 
of choice strawberries, or cherries with blossoms and leaves, seem 
no longer admissible for this purpose. 

FRESH FRUIT AT MEALS 

The English custom is to serve fruit at the close of the breakfast, 
but, dietetically considered, the beginning of the meal is prefer- 
able in point of propriety. 

Theoretically, acid fruit should not be combined at the same meal 
with starchy food, for the digestive action of the ptyaHn of the saliva 
is inhibited in the presence of an acid. On this accovmt the sweet 
fruits, dates, figs and bananas, are to be given first place as break- 
fast fruits; whole mildly acid fruits, pineapples, grapes, peaches, 
pears, some varieties of apples, preferably cooked, sweet oranges 
and berries are indicated as a second choice. Add fruits should 
accompany meats. Fruit is almost universaUy eaten with sugar, 
but the combination cannot be considered hygienic, being very 
liable to produce malfermentation in the alimentary tract. 



WAYS TO SERVE ORANGES 517 

APPLES 

Apples may be polished for table service, but unless cooked they 
are eaten preferably between meals. The different ways in which 
they may be acceptably cooked for the table is almost Hmitless. 

PEARS 

Pears may be polished, and when fully ripe, being of finer texture 
than apples, they are more readily digested, and hence are better 
adapted than raw apples to table service. They are chiefly valu- 
able on account of their aroma and flavor. 

ORANGES 

Sweet oranges are particularly valuable, since they are palatable 
without sugar. Oftentimes in sickness, in case of great gastric 
irritation, when food is not well borne, the juice of a ripe orange 
will be found very acceptable. In cases of flatulency, the juice 
will be found most agreeable, taken undiluted and with the avoid- 
ance of even a trace of the oil from the rind. The oil or zest of 
both lemons and oranges is found entirely in the yellow rind. 
Even when fresh this oil, though most palatable, will cause eructa- 
tion from the stomach. This fact should be noted most carefully 
in removing the juice of these fruits for jellies or ices. With a 
spoon or a glass lemon squeezer the juice may be extracted with- 
out trace of the zest. 

WAYS TO SERVE ORANGES 
AT BREAKFAST 

Cut the oranges in halves, crosswise. Half an orange is one 
service. Serve on a plate with an orange spoon. Powdered sugar 
is passed. Grapefruit is served in the same way. 

SECTION OF ORANGE PULP, FREED FROM MEMBRANE 

Peel an orange. With a thin-bladed, sharp knife cut down from 
the surface to the centre at one side of a membrane enclosing a 
section of pulp, then cut down close to the pulp on the other side 
of ihe membrane; a third time cut down to the centre, close to the 
next membrane, and take out the section of pulp, thus loosened, 



Si8 PRACTICAL COOKING AND SERVING 

in one piece; then cut down close to the other side of a mem- 
brane, taking out the pulp as before. So proceed until all pulp is 
removed, when the whole membrane or framework of the orange 
will be left in one piece. 

SECTIONS OF ORANGE, HELD ON BAND OF PEEL 

Score the peel of an orange at both ends, so as to leave a solid 

band about an inch wide around the centre, and cut away the rest 

of the peel. Sever the band at the jvmction of two sections, ana 

separate the sections from each other, leaving all attached to the 

band. 

ORANQE IN SECTIONS, PEEL RETAINED 

Score the orange in eighths, from the stem nearly to the blossom 
end, and carefully loosen the peel; then loosen the sections from 
one another, without removing them from the peel at the blossom 
end. Serve in this way; or roll inward the points of the peel to 
form a border around the base of the fruit. Serve in a fruit dish 
with other fruit, or on individual plates. 

SALPICON OF FRUIT IN GRAPEFRUIT BASKET 

Cut grapefruit in halves. Remove and save the pulp and juice, 
discarding the fibrous part. With a pinking iron and sharp knife 
decorate the edge of the shells. A ribbon may be rim through the 
openings, if approved. Avoid open decorations at a distance from 
the edge, for obvious reasons. Let the shells chill on ice, and at 
serving time fill with the juice and pulp of the fruit, white grapes, 
skinned and seeded, and thin slices of bananas, chilled and mixed 
with powdered sugar. Serve as a first or last course at a formal 
luncheon. Other fruit may be used and the salpicon may be served 
in sherbet, frappe or champagne glasses. Wine may be added at 
pleasure. 

PINEAPPLES 

The pineapple is the only fruit that is known materially to aid 
digestion. The pineapple contains a principle, vegetable pepsin, 
that digests albuminous substances. When fresh juice of the fruit 
is combined in dishes with milk, eggs or gelatine, the digestive 
process is at once inaugurated and a bitter-tasting dish results. 
Scalding the juice destroys this digestive principle, and should be 
observed when the juice is to be combined with such substances. 



PEACHES HALF FROZEN 519 

But to get the full benefit of the digestive principle, as also the 
antiseptic and germicidal properties of the pineapple juice, the 
fruit needs be eaten fresh and without sugar. Thus taken its bene- 
ficial effects can scarcely be overestimated. It is particularly 
useful in all catarrhal conditions of the throat and alimentary 
tract, and is almost a specific in malarial troubles. The woody 
fibre in a perfectly ripe pineapple has become softened in the ripen- 
ing process, but when this condition has not been reached the juice 
only should be ingested. 

PINEAPPLE, SHREDDED 

Remove the tough outer surface of the pineapple, then with a 
silver fork, following the lines made by the bracts, cut around the 
single fruits and remove them, one by one, from the hard centre. 
Sprinkle with sugar, if desired. Serve at breakfast or luncheon . 

PINEAPPLE AND ORANGES, HALF FROZEN 

Cut off the top of a large pineapple. Pare away the base so that 
it may stand upright and firm on the plate. With knife and strong 
spoon scoop out the pulp of the apple and separate the same from 
the hard centre. Peel about four sweet oranges, slice lengthwise 
and remove the seeds; mix the juice and pulp of the oranges and 
pineapple with sugar to taste; put in a fruit jar with a close-fitting 
cover and pack in three measures of ice to one of salt; let stand an 
hour or more. When ready to serve turn the mixture into the 
chilled shell of the pineapple and garnish the base with leaves of 
the crown. Pineapple alone, when a second one wUl be required, 
strawberries, bananas, or peaches may be used in the place of the 
oranges. Half a cup of orange, less of lemon juice, is an improve- 
ment, when bananas are used. If bananas are not used, half a cup 
or more of Jamaica rum is considered an improvement by many. 
It is not safe to use any sort of spirits with uncooked bananas. 

PEACHES, HALF FROZEN 

Cut very ripe peaches into halves and remove the stones and 
skins; sprinkle withpowderedsugar and put into the can of a freezer; 
pack the can in crushed ice without salt, or with very little salt, 
and let stand until the peaches are half-frozen Arrange in a glass 
serving-dish, in the form of a wreath, and sprinkle again with su^ar. 



520 PRACTICAL CCX)KING AND SERVING 

Pile thick cream, sweetened, flavored and whipped, in the centre 
of the dish. 

PEACHES AND GRAPES (FOR INVALID'S TRAY) 

Select large, ripe, juicy peaches and brush the surface of each 
gently with a soft brush, to remove the down. Select a bunch of 
sweet, juicy grapes: if procured at the market, let water from the 
faucet run gently over them a few moments, then drain in a cool 
place. All grapes and berries procured at market need be rinsed 
in water and drained before sending to table. 

STRAWBERRIES, FRENCH FASHION 

Select clean, ripe berries. Remove neither hulls nor stems, but 
with soft brush touch the surface of each berry gently, as also the 
sepals on both sides, to remove any sand. Garnish with strawberry 
leaves and blossoms. Serve with a spoonful of sifted, powdered 
sugar, from a separate dish. If the berries have not been fresh- 
gathered, chill before sers'ing. Serve at breakfast, or as the first 
course (appetizer) or last course (dessert) of a luncheon. 

MELONS 

Melons, though eaten as fruit, are in reality vegetables. They 
belong to the same family as the squash. Among the children of 
Israel in the wilderness, a cause of murmuring was the lack of 
cucumbers and melons, for which the people longed. Indeed, the 
melon, which is one of the earliest known vegetables, seems always 
to have been much relished. "The Emperor Frederick, of Ger- 
many, and Maximilian II were alike so inordinately fond of melons 
that they both became ultimately victims to the passion." At- 
water gives 50 per cent, of the muskmelon as waste matter, and 
of the remaining part 44.8 is water, a most grateful contribution 
to the summer diet. The nutritive value of melons, represented 
by the sweet elements, is very small, but they contain no indigesti- 
ble fibrous matter. The Chinese method of serving melons — 
that is, half frozen — is well adapted to bring out their delicacy 
and flavor. Melons are really wholesome only when eaten fresh 
from the vine, after chilling. 

TO SERVE WATERMELONS 

Chill by standing on ice several hours. Cut the ends even, that 
the halves may stand level, then send to the table cut in halves 



SALPICON OF FRUIT IN MUSKMELONS 521 

crosswise, each half resting on a mat of grape or currant leaves. 
With a tablespoon scoop out the red pulp in egg-shaped pieces. 
Serve on chilled plates. The pulp may also be scooped out and 
sent to the table in half of the shell or in a handsome dish. The 
pulp from the whole melon will be needed to fill half the shell. 

WATERMELON A LA STEAMER PRISCILLA 

Cut a section, four inches thick, from the centre of a chilled 
watermelon. Separate the green rind, leaving the edible portion 
a round of pink melon pulp; place upon a serving-dish of average 
size. In serving cut in the same manner as a pie. 

WATERMELON SERVED IN WEDQE-SHAPED SLICES 

Cut the chilled melon in halves, crosswise. Let each half rest 
on a bed of grape leaves, trimming the melon to rest evenly on the 
dish. Cut triangular sections from the melon, and serve with rind 

MELONS, CHINESE METHOD 

Scoop out the edible pulp with a tablespoon, remove the seeds, 
sprinkle with powdered sugar and grated ginger root, turn into the 
can of the freezer and pack in ice and salt. After standing ten 
minutes tiurn the crank gently, for a few moments; repeat several 
times. Serve half frozen. Avoid turning the crank to crush the 
pulp. 

MELON SALAD SWEET 

Cut the edible portion of a chilled melon into small cubes, or 
take out the pulp in smaJl pieces with a spoon. Mix together half 
a cup of sugar and a scant teaspoonful of cinnamon; sprinkle this 
over a quart of melon, toss together and serve from a salad bowl 
or from a bowl basket fashioned out of the shell from which the pulp 
was taken. 

SALPICON OF FRUIT IN HALVED MUSKMELONS 

Chill small melons, cut in halves and remove seeds, but retain 
the pulp intact. Fill with a chilled mixture of sliced peaches, 
shredded pineapple, and sections of orange, removed from the 
membrane and mixed with sugar. 



522 PRACTICAL COOKING AND SERVING 

NUTMEG AND SMALL MELONS 

Chill thoroughly, cut in halves and remove seeds. Make half 
a melon each service. Sugar and cinnamon, or paprika and salt, 
may be passed in a glass or silver dredger. 

ICE CREAM SERVED IN MUSKMELONS 

Select melons about the size of a large orange. Cut a piece from 
the top of each to serve as a cover. Pass a short piece of narrow 
ribbon through slits in this and tie in a bow upon the top, as a 
means of lifting the cover. Remove the seeds from the melons and 
chill thoroughly on ice. When ready to serve fill the melons with 
ice cream, and put the covers in place. Ice cream, flavored with 
lemon and cinnamon, or with vanilla, and eaten with the pulp of 
the melon, is considered an agreeable combination. The idea dates 
back to the first days of the republic, when ice cream was first made 
in this country. 

CENTREPIECE OF FRUIT FOR THANKSGIVING DINNER OR 
HARVEST FESTIVAL 

Select a golden-colored, medium-sized, well-shaped pumpkin. 
With a sharp knife fashion into the shape of a basket with an old- 
fashioned tub handle on each side. Carefully scoop out the seeds 
and pulp, leaving a thin shell. Polish the rind and Hne the inside 
neatly with white paper. The paper may be held in place with 
pins. 

Fill the basket with apples, pears, and grapes of various hues. 
A mat of autumn leaves, maple or sumach, gives the finishing touch 
to this table ornament. A fruit basket, fashioned from a cabbage, 
is appropriate for halloween. A wooden trencher, hand-painted, 
filled with fndt, is peculiarly adapted to this use at Thanlsgiving, 
and a mat, fashioned from stalks or ripened grain and bright 
autumn leaves, can hardly be improved upon as a centrepiece for 
either of these receptables. 

COOKED FRUITS FOR IMMEDIATE USE 

APPLE SAUCE 

Pare, quarter, and core tart, juicy apples; add a little hot water 
and cook very quickly. When tender pass through a fine colandei; 



APPLE BAKED WITH ALMONDS 5,73 

add a few grains of salt and sugar, sweeten to taste; let boil, then 
turn into a glass dish. Serve cold. 

APPLE SAUCE, NO. 2 

Prepare as above, adding the salt and sugar with the water; let 
cook until tender over a hot fire. Serve very cold. 

APPLES, DUCHESS STYLE 

With a vegetable scoop cut out about two dozen balls from pared 
apples. Cook in a cup, each, of sugar and water with a teaspoonful 
of lemon juice until tender, but not broken, then drain and roll 
in melted currant jelly. Cook the trimmings of the apples with one 
or two apples, cut in quarters, in a Uttle water; pass through a sieve 
and simmer in the syrup until quite thick. Dispose the marmalade 
thus made about the balls and sprinkle with chopped pistachio 
nuts or almonds. 

APPLES IN SYRUP (FOR A GARNISH) 

Make a syrup of a cup, each, of sugar and water. Have ready 
apples cored, pared, and cut in rings; rub over the rings with the 
cut side of a lemon, to keep them white. Let cook in the syrup, 
two or three pieces at a time, turning often, to keep the shape. 

CHANTILLY APPLE SAUCE WITH HORSERADISH 

Cook about five medium-sized apples, pared and cored, in a very 
little water (steaming is preferable, as they should be very dry when 
cooked), pass through a fine sieve, and add to the pulp two table- 
spoonfuls of powdered sugar and one fourth cup of fresh-grated 
horseradish. When mixed thoroughly and cold fold in an equal 
bulk of whipped cream. Serve separately with young ducks or 
goslings. 

APPLES BAKED WITH ALMONDS 

Core and pare six or eight tart apples; let simmer in a cup, each, 
of sugar and water boiled together two or three minutes until 
nearly tender. Turn the apples often to avoid breaking. A little 
lemon juice added to the syrup will improve the flavor, or, if the 
apples be rubbed with the cut side of a lemon, it will help keep them 
white during the cooking. Set the apples in an agate pan, and 



5;24. PRACTICAL COOKING AND SERVING 

press into them almonds, blanched and split in halves. Dredge 
with powdered sugar and brown in the oven. Serve hot with jelly 
or whipped cream and the cold syrup in which the apples were 
cooked. 

BLUSHING APPLES WITH ORANQE SAUCE 

Core six red apples and cook, without removing the skins, in 
boiling water until tender. Turn the apples often with a skimmer, 
that they may cook evenly. Remove to a plate, carefully take off 
the skins, and scrape off the red pulp adhering to the inside of the 
skins and replace it on opposite sides of each apple. Reduce the 
water to a cup or less, add a cup of sugar and the juice of an orange, 
also the grated rind, if wished; let simmer imtil a thick syrup is 
formed; pour this over the apples. Drop a spoonful of whipped 
cream on each, or serve the cream apart. 

BAKED APPLES, CREOLE STYLE 

Core and pare the apples. Put a little sugar, water, and lemon 
juice into a baking dish with the apples, and bake imtil tender, but 
not broken. Remove to a serving-dish, fill the centres with jelly 
or marmalade and pour the liquid from the baking dish over them. 
Make a meringue with the whites of two eggs and four tablespoon- 
f uls of sugar and flavor with lemon and vanilla. Press the meringue 
on to the tops of the apples, using a pastry bag and star tube. Bake 
in a moderate oven about eight minutes. The apples may be 
steamed or boiled in a syrup. Garnish with jelly. 

APPLES WITH JUNKET 

Have ready apples cooked in syrup or baked imtil tender. Set 
in individual dishes and sprinkle with chopped almonds. Heat a 
pint of fresh milk, to which one third cup of sugar has been added, 
until lukewarm (ioo° Fahr.), then stir into it half a jimket tablet, 
crushed and dissolved in a tablespoonful of cold water, add a few 
drops of vanilla extract and pour into the dish around the apples, 
which should have been cooled. The milk will jelly when cold. 
Garnish with candied cherries and whipped cream. 

APPLES WITH RICE 

Blanch one cup of rice, then cook in boiling salted water until 
tender, adding more water as needed. When done the water 




UTENSILS FOR MAKING PASTRY. 
Pastry fork and jagger, "Magic Covers" for board and rollino; pin. (See page 434.) 




SWEDISH TIMBALE IRON. APPLE CORER. CUTTERS FOR 
SANDWICHES OR CAKES. FRENCH PATTY CUTTER. 




PASTRY BAKED ON INVERTED TIN. 
Covering tin with caste. (See page 438.) 




PATTIES FILLED WITH ASPARAGUS TIPS IN BECHAMEL SAUCE 
(See papes 308 and 449-) 




CRANBERRY PIE. (Seepages 438 and 440. 




VOL-AU-VFNT' BAKED OVER A FORM. (See page 448.) 



JELLIED APPLES s^S 

should be absorbed and the kernels of rice distinct. Line small 
buttered cups with the rice; fill the centres closely with slices of 
apple cooked until tender, but not broken, in sugar and water; cover 
the apple with more rice, roimding the top slightly. Let steam or 
copk in the oven, standing in a dish of hot water, about fifteen 
minutes. Turn from the cups on to a serving dish and serve hot 
with a cold boiled custard, made of a pint of milk, the yolks of four 
eggs, half a cup of sugar and a few grains of salt. Mock cream, hard 
sauce, banana sauce, or lemon sauce, may replace the custard. 

FANCY BAKED APPLES. (MARIE MORAN) 

Peel and core medium-sized tart apples. Put them in a baiing 
dish and pour half a cup of water over them. Set in a hot oven and, 
when the apples are heated, sprinkle with enough sugar to coat each 
and bake until tender. Make a syrup of one cup of water, half a 
cup of sugar, the juice of half a lemon, and a teaspoonful of the 
grated rind. Add two tablespoonfuls of chopped raisins, two of 
chopped candied cherries, two of chopped candied pineapple, and 
two of chopped almonds and, when the sugar is dissolved, set at 
the back of the stove and let cook slowly half an hour. When the 
apples are done, put in Uttle glass saucers, taking care not to break 
them. Fill with the cooked sweets and pour the syrup over them. 
Serve cold with whipped cream. 

JELLIED APPLES, GARNISH OF WHIPPED CREAM 

Pare, quarter and core tart apples, and cut the quarters into two 
or three pieces. Put these into an earthen dish — a new bean pot, 
or a casserole is suitable — with layers of sugar between, using a cup 
and a half of sugar for about a quart of sUces. Add fourth cup 
of water, cover and let cook in a very slow oven three or more hours. 
When tender and very red and juicy add to the hot juice, drained 
from the apples, a scant fourth package of gelatine, softened 
in cold water, also a little lemon juice, if desired. Carefully lift a 
few pieces of apple at a time and dispose in an earthen bowl, adding 
a teaspoonful of the liquid, until all the ingredients are used. Let 
stand until cold and set, then turn from the mould and ornament 
with a piping of thick cream, beaten solid, or siuround with thin 
cream, beaten with a whip chum and drained. Syrup from a jar 
of preserved ginger may be added to the cream before whipping. 
The apples are also particularly good served hot, without gelatine, 
with cream and preserved ginger. 



526 PRACTICAL COOKING AND SERVING 

JELLIED APPLES. (MARIE MORAN) 

Soak half a box of gelatine in half a cup of cold water. Peel, 
core, and quarter two quarts of tart apples. Put a pint of water, 
the same of granulated sugar, the juice of a lemon, and a pinch of 
ginger in a saucepan. When the sugar is dissolved, let it boil ten 
minutes, then put in the apples, a few at a time. Let them code 
tOl tender, but not broken. Take out with a wire spoon and spread 
on a dish. When all the apples are cooked, pour the gelatine into 
the syrup, and stir until melted. Then set in cold water and stir 
until it begins to jelly. Wet a fancy mould, pour in some of the 
jelly, then arrange the apples in a layer, with a few bits of preserved 
ginger and lemon strewed over them ; pour over the rest of the semi- 
liquid jelly and set the mould away to harden. Serve with whipped 
cream. 

APPLES A LA MANHATTAN 

Pare and core eight medium-sized apples. Make ready round 
pieces of sponge cake — one for each apple — an inch in thickness 
and of the same size as the apple. Sprinkle with sugar and set 
them in the oven until the sugar melts. Make a syrup of a cup of 
sugar and a cup of water. Cook the apples very slowly in the 
syrup, cook until it is quite thick, then pour over the whole. Gar- 
nish with whipped cream and candied cherries . 

APPLE CHARLOTTE 

Pare and slice four or five times as many apples as will fill the 
dish in which the charlotte is to be made. Steam these until 
tender; then add sugar to taste and a generous piece of butter and 
cook the apples over the fire, stirring meanwhile, until they are 
very dry. Prepare sippets of bread an inch wide, by removing crust 
and dipping in melted butter; with these line a plain mould, mak- 
ing one sippet overlap another. Arrange lozenges of bread similarly 
in the bottom of the mould, turn in the apple, piling it high on the 
top, then cover with buttered bread. Bake half an hour in a hot 
oven. Turn from the mould on to a hot dish. Serve with sugar 
and cream or hot sauce. 

APPLE CROQUETTES 

6 or 8 large apples. J teaspoonful of salt. 

J cup of sugar. 4 tablespoonfuls of cornstarch. 

A grating of lemon rind. The yolks of five eggs. 

4 tablespoonfuls of butter. (i egg and bread crumbs.) 



BLACKBERRY SPONGE 527 

Pare, quarter and core the apples; steam until tender, then cook 
with the sugar and lemon until very dry. Melt the butter and in 
it cook the cornstarch; add the apple pulp gradually, then the 
slightly beaten yolks of eggs; cook over hot water until the egg is 
set, then set aside to cool. Shape into cork or apple shapes, egg- 
and-bread-crumb, and fry in deep fat. Serve as a garnish for roast 
goose. The quantity of cornstarch may be increased and the 
number of egg yolks diminished accordingly, if desired. The yolk 
of an egg is equivalent to about a level tablespoonful of cornstarch. 

COMPOTE OF STUFFED PEARS WITH RICE 

Select pears that are not too ripe, pare, and scrape the stems. 
Beginning at the stem end, cut, as to halve, to the centre of the 
pear; then, at a right angle, cut across to the first incision, and then 
remove one fourth of the fruit. With a vegetable gouge remove 
the core and the blossom end. For seven or eight pears make a 
syrup of a cup and a quarter of sugar, a cup of water and the juice 
of half a lemon. Cook the pears, until tender, in the syrup. Cut 
out roimds of angelica, about half an inch in diameter, pierce these 
with a skewer, and slip one or two of them on to the stem of each 
pear, alternately with a candied cherry. Put a cherry over the end 
of the stem. Cut fine the trimmings of the angehca and two or 
three cherries, and add to a little quince marmalade. Fill the cavi- 
ties in the pears with this mixture, and arrange on the rice. Cook 
the syrup to a proper consistency and pour it over the dish. Serve 
hot or cold with or without cream. For the rice preparation see 
page 303. Preserved ginger may be substituted for the cherries 
and angelica. 

PYRAMID OF PEACHES 

Cook six or eight peaches, cut in halves and pared, in a cup, 
each, of sugar and water boiled to a syrup; drain and arrange, on 
small round croutons, about a pyramidal-shaped crouton. Put a 
blanched peach kernel or almond into the centre of each half peach. 
Boil the syrup with the juice of half a lemon until thick. Serve 
hot. For the croutons, either fry plain rounds of bread in butter 
or dip the bread in a mixture of milk and egg before frying. 

BLACKBERRY SPONGE 

Fill an earthen bowl closely with small cubes of bread, pouring 
over the bread, as it is fitted into place, hot blackberry juice (black- 



538 PRACTICAL COOKING AND SERVING 

berries cooked until soft, with sugar to taste, and passed through a 
sieve). Use all the juice the bread will absorb. Set the sponge 
aside in a cool place for some hours, then turn from the bowl. 
Serve with blackberries, sugar and cream. 

RASPBERRIES WITH RICE CROQUETTES 

I cup of rice. i cup of whipped cream. 

^ tablespoonful of salt. i cup of candied orange peel, 

3 oups of milk. shredded fine. 

The yoLks of three eggs. Angelica, 

i cup of butter. Raspberries, etc. 

i cup of sugar. 

Blanch the rice, then cook with the salt and candied peel in the 
milk until tender; add the yolks of the eggs, beaten, the butter, 
sugar and cream. When cool form into peach shapes, egg-and- 
bread-crumb, and fry in deep fat; insert angelica for stems. Serve 
with raspberries dressed with sugar or cold syrup. 

BANANAS WITH RICE 

Prepare a border of cooked rice. Use rice croquette mixture, 
omitting the candied peel; pack the rice in a buttered and sugared 
border mould, set on a heavy folded paper, in a dish of hot water 
in the oven about twenty minutes. Unmould on a serving-dish. 
Decorate the top with candied cherries and rounds cut from an- 
gelica. Cook a cup of sugar and a teaspoonful of cornstarch, 
sifted together, ten minutes in a pint of water; add the juice of a 
lemon and two tablespoonfuls of butter. Pour the sauce over six 
bananas, peeled and cut in slices; let stand a moment, then drain 
and dispose within the rice. Serve with the sauce reheated and in a 
dish apart. 

PEACH AND RICE MERINGUE 

Prepare a rice croquette mixture. (See page 304.) Maie a 
border of rice on a serving-dish that will stand the heat of the oven. 
Surround this with halves of peaches, fresh or canned, with skins 
removed; inside the border dispose sliced peaches and rice in layers, 
sprinkling the peaches with sugar and giving the whole a dome 
shape. Cover with meringue (see page 512), dust with sugar, and 
set in a slow oven about ten minutes. 



BAKED BANANAS 539 

CHERRIES WITH CRUSTS 

Cut rings from slices of brioche, or bread, half an inch thick; 
soak these in egg yolk, beaten and diluted with milk or cream and 
mixed with sugar and a grating of orange peel. Egg-and-crumb, 
using macaroon crumbs and, lastly, bread crumbs, and saute in 
clarified butter; mask with marmalade and sprinkle with chopped 
almonds. Dress crown-shaped, one overlapping another, with 
stewed cherries in the centre. Thicken the cherry syrup with corn- 
starch or arrowroot for a sauce. 

COMPOTE OF BANANAS 

Remove the peel and threads from six very ripe bananas; let 
stand covered with boiling water a few seconds, then drain and coat 
each with orange syrup; pile in the form of a pyramid; pour the rest 
of the syrup over them and sprinkle with chopped pistachio nuts 
or candled cherries. Serve as a dessert or an entree. For the 
syrup, boil one cup of orange juice and pulp and the juice of half a 
lemon with one cup of sugar five or six minutes. The syrup shoxild 
be rather thick. 

FRIED BANANAS, CHERRY SAUCE 

Cut bananas lengthwise into halves, roll them in finely pulverized 
macaroons and then in flour, and fry in deep fat or oil until lightly 
colored; drain on soft paper, brush over with apricot marmalade, 
and dredge mth shredded pistachio nuts. Serve with a syrup 
made of one cup of sugar and one cup of water boiled together five 
minutes and mixed with half a cup of currant jelly; when the jelly 
is melted add a tablespoonful of lemon juice and strain over half a 
cup of preserved cherries. Serve as an entree. 

BAKED BANANAS 

Pull down a section of banana skin and loosen the pulp from the 
rest of the skin; remove all coarse threads and replace the fruit in 
its original position in the skin; bake half a dozen bananas, so pre- 
pared, in a hot oven, until the skin is blackened and the pulp is 
softened. Take the pulp from the skins without injury to shape 
and dispose on a serving dish in half circles; brush over with half- 
melted currant jelly, or a hot sauce, and sprinkle with fine-chopped 



530 PRACTICAL COOKING AND SERVING 

pistachio nuts. Serve with a bowl of sauce apart. Lemon, wine 
or Richelieu sauce is appropriate with this dish. 

BAKED BANANAS (PORTO RICO) 

Select rather green bananas; put them entire into hot ashes, or a 
very hot oven, and bake until the skins burst open. Serve at once, 
in a folded napkin, with butter. 

CRANBERRY SAUCE 

Cook one pint of cranberries with one pmt of boiling water five 
minutes after boiling begins (closely covered), strain, add a cup of 
sugar and let boil once. Skim and set aside to cool. 

CRANBERRY SAUCE, NO. 2 

Use one half as much sugar, by measure, as cranberries and one 
half as much water as sugar. Cover and cook ten minutes — long 
cooking makes the sauce bitter — then skim and cool. 

CRANBERRY JELLY 

Cook one quart of cranberries in a cup of water over a hot fire 
about five minutes, or until the berries burst. With a wooden 
pestle press the pulp through a coarse sieve, add a pint of sugar, 
and stir until the sugar is dissolved, then pour into cups to cool. 
The sauce will not jelly if boiled after the sugar is added. 

STEWED FIQS 

Whole, unpressed figs in a basket or bag are the best; the price 
varies with the quality. The skin of the better variety of figs is 
glossy, silky, and very tender. Such figs require but little cook- 
ing. Wash the figs thoroughly, cover with boiling water, and let 
cook vmtil the skin is tender, adding boiling water if needed. When 
about done a little sugar may be added. Let the syrup cook until 
thickened a little. Serve hot or cold with the breakfast cereal, 
or cold with plain, whipped, or Devonshire cream, as a dessert. 
For a more elaborate dessert, make an opening in the side of each 
fig and insert a teaspoonful of chopped nuts, or nuts and cherries, 
press in shape and cook without disturbance. 



COMPOTE OF CHESTNUTS 531 

STUFFED DATES WITH WHIPPED CREAM 

Remove the seeds from choice dates and fill the vacant spaces 
with slices of English walnut, or pecan nut meats, or halves of 
blanched almonds, and press into the original shape. Stew until 
tender in a little hot water, adding, at the last, sugar and lemon 
juice. Whip a cup of double cream and a cup of milk with a whip 
chum and remove the froth. Drain and chill the froth and serve 
the dates in a circle around this. 

BAKED RHUBARB. (JULIA D. CHANDLER) 

Rinse quickly, wipe clean, and remove skin or shreds from larger 
stalks. Have ready an earthen or agate dish with plate to fit the 
top as a cover. Cut the stalks into this, in short lengths, scatter- 
ing sugar over in layers, as one would for apple or other fruits, 
but not to excess. Add one or two tablespoonfuls of water, "to 
start the steam," cover and set in the oven. In a short time the 
rhubarb will be tender, the syrup pink colored. A bit of white 
ginger root or orange peel may be added while baking. Whole 
figs, dates or raisins, previously boiled in hot water, may be put 
into the baking dish in layers with imcooked rhubarb and cooked 
until the rhubarb is tender. A sprinkling of sugar is needed upon 
the layers of rhubarb. 

GRAPE JUICE 

Weigh the grapes, and for each ten pounds use three pounds 
of sugar. Pick the grapes from the stems, put in an agate or 
porcelain kettle with about five pints of water to a peck of grapes. 
Cover and bring slowly to the boiling point, stirring occasionally, 
and when boiling hot throughout turn into a heavy bag and let 
drain; when cool press out all the juice remaining, add the sugar, 
heat to the boiling point, skim, and store in fruit jars as in canning 
fruit. The sugar may be omitted. Other fruit juices, as straw- 
berry, raspberry, etc., may be prepared in the same way; these are 
useful for ices, punch, etc. Canned without sugar, use for jelly 
making. 

COMPOTE OF CHESTNUTS 

40 large imported chestnuts. J vanilla bean, or 

Syrup to cover, registering i6o on i the yellow rind of a lemon or 
the gauge, orange, 



532 PRACTICAL COOKING AND SERVING 

Put the blanched chestnuts on the bottom of a large saucepan, 
cover with the syrup, add the bean or the rind and let simmer 
twenty minutes or until tender, then drain; strain the syrup and 
reduce it to 30° on the gauge, then pour it over the chestnuts and 
dispose in a serving-dish. The chestnuts keep their shape better 
if used fresh. After blanching, if the chestnuts are old and dry, 
let soak in lemon juice a few hours before cooking. 

SALTED ALMONDS 

Salted almonds are served at luncheon and dinner, and are 
eaten at any time during these meals as inclination dictates. To 
blanch, put the nuts over the fire in boiling water, let cook a 
few moments, drain, and cover with cold water, when the skins can 
be easily removed. English walnuts need longer cooking, and the 
layers of skin will have to be removed with a small penknife. When 
blanched, put the nuts into a pan with a little melted butter and set 
them in a moderate oven. Stir frequently so they will brown 
evenly on all sides. Sprinkle with salt while hot. 

SALTED ALMONDS, NO. 2 

Fry the blanched nuts, a few at a time, in a small saucepan of 
olive oil, to a delicate brown, stirring the almonds meanwhile; 
remove with a skimmer, drain on soft paper and sprinkle with 
salt. Pecan or English walnut meats, unblanched, or peanuts, 
skins removed, are salted and served as almonds. 

SALTED ALMONDS, NO. 3 (MASSACHUSETTS 
CONFECTIONER) 

Blanch two cups of almonds and boil eight minutes in water 
with a cup of salt. Dry and saut6 quickly in four tablespoonfuls 
of butter. Almonds, prepared by this recipe, will not become 
rancid and are not covered with salt crystals. 

SALTED ALMONDS 

Cover the almonds with lukewarm water, and heat qmckly to 
the boiling pomt, drain and cover with cold water, then press 
each nut, one by one, between the thumb and finger, to slip off 
the skin; dry the nuts on a cloth. Beat the white of an egg 




STRAWBERRY SPONGE. (See page 473.) 




EASTER PUDDING. (See page 475-) 




PINEAPPLE BAV ARIOSE, POMPADOUR STYLE. 





ORANGE SECTION'S IN ORANOR JELLY. fSec page 468,) 




MACEDOIME OF FRUIT AND NUTS. fSce pase 469-) 




CnSTARD RENVERSEE, BAKED IN SMALL MOULDS. 
rSee page 464.) 



S.\LTED ALMONDS 53,3 

slightly, then strain it. Dip the tips of the fingers of the right 
hand into the egg and repeatedly take up and drop a few nuts, 
until they are well coated with the egg. Continue until all the 
nuts are coated with egg, then dredge with salt, mix thoroughly 
and let brown delicately in the oven. Stir the nuts, occasionally, 
while they are browning. 



CHAPTER XXIV 
The Preservation of Fruit 

"Here is fruit for an epicure meet, 
Canned and pickled and smothered in sweet; 
The wealth of summer's mellow prime, 
To cheer the dearth of winter's rime." — J. M. L. 

SYNOPSIS 

«. Time to preserve fruit. r" Preserves," 

J Marmalades, 
( Heavy solution of sugar. ; Butters, 

*■ ^t^'atior" Exclusion of aU germs. Camiing. ^jeUies. 
' Strong adds. Pickling. 

Recipes. 

Instinctively, as it were, in time of plenty we are inclined to 
lay aside something for use in time of need. This is particularly 
true when one has a bountiful supply of fruit, which, in any form, 
is a welcome addition to the dietary, and which, unless preserved 
in some manner, soon becomes worthless. 

There is said to be one supreme moment when a peach is in 
perfect condition for eating. It is much the same with all fruit. 
There is a time when it is at its best; but passing that, it is un-- 
satisfactory either for "putting up" or for eating raw. The first 
step, then, in the process of preserving fruit is to secure fruit that 
is uniform in ripeness and at the height of its flavor. Thus selected, 
the fruit should be so preserved as to retain this flavor, and, when 
admissible, its shape. The ease with which this may be done and 
the wholesomeness of the finished product are also worthy of 
attention. 

Long before people had any knowledge of microbes, it was dis- 
covered that fruit could be readily kept, and almost indefinitely, 
in a heavy solution of sugar, or in a strong acid, like vinegar. Hence 
came pickles of various kinds, and the compositions, pound for 

S34 



GENERAL DIRECTIONS 535 

pound, of sugar and fruit, called by our grandmothers jam, marma- 
lade, jelly, and "preserves." 

Preserves, though a general term, is more particularly applied 
to sweets made of whole fruit, or large pieces of fruit, kept as whole 
as possible, while marmalades, jams and butters are made of fruit 
fine-divided or crushed, and jellies of fruit juices only. Fruit "put 
up" in these ways owes its preservation to the fact that the 
ubiquitous microbe, whose primal mission is to reduce everything 
earthly to its "lowest terms," cannot thrive and multiply in a 
thick solution of sugar. On this account, though the usual sanitary 
ways of cooking should always be employed, care in securing 
absolute freedom from all bacteria is not so imperative as it is when 
the fruit is put up without sugar, or in a light syrup. In the latter 
cases the microbes that flourish upon the outside of the fruit, and 
in water and air, must be destroyed by heat at the boiling point, 
or by heat at lower temperature applied for a short time on several 
occasions, else the fruit is liable "to spoil." A dry, sunny day is 
preferable for preserving fruit, as for all cooking of sugar. 

UTENSILS 

Among the utensils that are the most necessary for use in pre- 
serving fruit are scales, measuring cups, porcelain or agate-ware 
saucepans, earthen or agate-ware bowls, silver, agate or wooden 
spoons, a fruit press, an agate colander, small dipper and funnel, 
jars with new rubbers and perfect covers, glasses for jelly, jam, 
etc., bottles for catsups and sauces, and jelly bags of felt, loosely 
woven flannel, or doubled cheesecloth. It is needless to add 
that each of these, if not absolutely new, should be in an immaculate 
condition. 

GENERAL DIRECTiONS 

Select fruit of uniform ripeness and free from btuises and other 
blemishes. Put berries, cherries, currants and other small fruits, 
freed of hulls, a few at a time, in a colander standing in a pan of 
cold water. The water should just cover the fruit, and should 
be changed, perhaps, several times. Then turn the fruit on to a 
cheesecloth to drain. Scald plums, to remove the skins, or, if 
these are to be retained, wipe outside and prick in several places, 
to avoid bursting. Peaches, pears and similar fruit should be 
neatly pared with a silver knife, then rubbed over with the cut 
side of a lemon, or kept covered in cold water until the moment 



536 PRACTICAL COOKING AND SERVING 

of cooking (to avoid discoloration). These latter fruits are often 
cut in halves and freed from cores or stones. 

The stems of pears carefully scraped are often retained. To 
insiu-e the retention of flavor quick cooking is essential; and but a 
small quantity should be cooked at a time. 

GENERAL RULE FOR PRESERVES 

Take equal weights of prepared fruit and sugar. To each 
pound of sugar add half a pound (one cup) of water and heat to 
boiling point. Skim, add the prepared fruit with a few kernels 
from the stones and cook until the fruit is transparent. Lemon 
juice is an agreeable addition to either peach or pear preserve. 
Three fourths pound of sugar to a pound of fruit is often used 
for peaches, pears and strawberries. Often in case of fruit whose 
shape is liable to be mjured by long cooking, the fruit is set aside 
in the boiling syrup three days in succession, the syrup on the 
second and third mornings being drained from the fruit, reheated, 
and poured over it. 

MARMALADE, JAM AND BUTTERS 

These are made of the pulp and juice of fruit. For the first 
two, apples and quinces are cooked in water and sifted, small 
fruits are mashed and, when the seeds are objectionable, also 
sifted An equal weight of sugar is used, but it is added by degrees, 
to keep the fruit soft. Frequent stirring is necessary to avoid 
burning. In making butters the prepared fruit is cooked slowly 
with a very little water. In the meantime it is stirred with a 
peculiar shaped, perforated, wooden utensil, the fruit being 
broken up by passing through the perforations during the stirring. 
Sugar, either pound for pound or three fourths of a pound to a 
pound of fruit, and spices are added during the cooking, the larger 
portion during the latter part of the process, to lessen the liability 
to bum. Apples and peaches are the fruits most often made into 
butters; the cooking is a longer process than that for jams, etc. 

JELLIES 

The various processes of jelly making do not differ materially. 
Fruit juice is boiled with sugar to the jellying state. The shorter 
the time of boiling the more pronounced will be the the fruit flavor. 



CANNING 537 

Juice from currants may be extracted by pressure, without the use 
of heat, or, as in case of other fruits, the currants may be cooked 
enough to release the juice without pressure. To extract the 
juice a little water is added to the fruit and the whole is cooked 
steadily, but slowly, over the fire until the juice flows freely; or 
the fruit is cooked, without the addition of water, in a jar standing 
in a vessel of hot water, until it is soft enough to mash. In any 
case pass the juice twice through a jelly bag wrimg out of 
hot water, mthout pressure, then heat to the boiling point, skim 
and boil five or more minutes, then add an equal weight of granu- 
lated sugar that has been heated in the oven without browning. 
Let boil until a little will jeUy slightly on a cold dish. Less than five 
minutes' boiling will usuaUy suffice, though sometimes fifteen 
minutes is required; the time depends upon the quantity of water 
present in the fruit juice. If jelly with less sugar be desired, reduce 
the juice by boiling some minutes before adding half or three 
fourths the weight of sugar. Turn the jelly as soon as cooked into 
glasses, first rinsed in hot water and placed on a folded cloth 
wrung out of hot water. When cold, cover with melted paraffine, 
or paper dipped in alcohol, then with a tin cover or a second piece 
of paper. Store in a dry place. 

CANNING 

The several ways of canning fruit are variations only of two 
original methods — i. e., by cooking the fruit in an open saucepan 
and transferring to the jars, and by cooking the fruit in the same 
jars in which it is to be set aside. In either case the fruit is but 
slightly cooked, and no more sugar is used than would be palatable 
if the fruit were to be eaten fresh. This quantity is about one cup 
of sugar and one cup of water to a quart of juicy fruit. The 
water is increased to two cups for dry fruits like pears and apples. 

In canning, as the syrup is not of sufiicient strength to prevent 
the growth of microbes, no pains must be spared to insiu-e complete 
sterilization. While the fruit is cooking in the syrup in the sauce- 
pan, let the jars stand, filled with boiling water, on a folded cloth, 
saturated with boiling water, upon the back of the range. When 
the fruit is cooked, pour the water from the jars and fill at once to 
overflow with fruit and syrup. Adjust new rubbers and quickly 
screw on the lids, which have been standing, meanwhile, in boiling 
water. A wide-mouthed funnel with spreading top is convenient 
in filling the jars. 



538 PRACTICAL COOKING AND SERVING 

When the fruit is cooiied in the jars — and this method conserves 
the flavor more perfectly — fill the jars with the prepared fruit. 
Set them on a heavy fold of cloth, paper, or on a perforated board, 
in a saucepan half filled with warm water. Fill to overflow with 
hot syrup, adjust new rubbers, and screw down the covers lightly. 
Bring the water in the saucepan to the boiling point and let boil 
from five to ten minutes. If necessary, add more hot syrup to 
fill the jars to overflow, or use one jar to fill the others. Screw 
the covers on tightly, let cool in water, tighten the covers once 
more, and set aside in a cool, dark closet. Patent canners may be 
found at kitchen furnishing stores that simplify canning by the 
latter method. These are of much assistance in canning fruit and 
are invaluable in canning vegetables. Vegetables, gathered at 
the proper time, cooked si^ciently and with care, will keep indefi- 
nitely and without the use of any "preser\-ative." 

PRESERVED BERRIES 

For each pound of preserved berries use ten ounces of sugar and 
one fourth cup of water. Cook the sugar and water to the 
soft ball stage or to a thick syrup ; let stand a few moments to cool 
a little, then pour on to the berries in fruit jars. Fill the jars to 
the top, adjust the rubbers and screw the covers down loosely. 
Set the jars on perforated boards, folds of paper or cloth in a 
saucepan, and surround with water at about the same temperature 
as the jars. Bring slowly to the boOing point and let boil ten 
minutes. Cool slowly in the water, tighten the covers and set aside 
in a dry, cool place. This confection is richer than ordinary 
canned fruit, yet it is not so rich as the traditional preserves. 
By this formula the shape and color of the berries are well pre- 
served. 

GRAPE PRESERVES 

Weigh the grapes and allow three fourths pound of sugar to a 
pound of fruit. Rinse the bunches of grapes in cold water, drain 
and squeeze the pulp from the skui of each grape. Heat the 
pulp gradually and cook until the seeds come out easily. Ten or 
fifteen minutes will be required. Pass through a sieve just fine 
enough to keep back the seeds. Cook the skins and the pulp 
ten minutes, then add the sugar and continue cooking until the 
liquid thickens slightly. Store in earthen or glass jars. 



STRAWBERRY PRESERVES 539 

PEARS PRESERVED WITH GINGER 

Pare, quarter and core eight pounds of pears; cut or break one 
fourth a pound of ginger root into pieces. Grate the yellow rind 
of two or three lemons. Put the pears, ginger and grated lemon 
into a saucepan, in layers, with eight pounds of sugar; add a cup 
of water — two if the pears are dry. Let heat very slowly and 
cook until the pears look clear; add the juice of six lemons when the 
fruit is rather more than half cooked. Two hours of cooking will 
often be needed. 

QUINCE AND SWEET APPLE PRESERVES 

Pare the quinces, cut in quarters and remove the cores and 
woody portion beneath. Cook the cores and skins with water 
to cover about an hour, then strain off this water and in it cook 
the quinces and half as many sweet apples, also pared and cored, 
untU each is tender or can be pierced with a straw. Let the fruit 
stand in cold water after preparation until time of cooking. Cook 
only as much fruit at a time as can be covered by the liquid. Re- 
move with a skimmer when tender. When all the fruit has been 
cooked, add to the liquid a pound of sugar for each pound of 
quince and half a pound of sugar for each pound of apple; boil 
five minutes, skim and add the fruit and let cook slowly untO 
of the desired color; long cooking gives a dark-tinted preserve. 
Drain on a platter and when all are cooked and drained, store in 
Jars, straining the hot syrup over the fruit. Use only the liquid 
from the cores and skins that drains through the cloth. It is 
often best to discard the cores as they contain gummy properties 
detrimental to the jelly. 

STRAWBERRY PRESERVES OR SUNSHINE 
STRAWBERRIES (OHIO) 

Select and hull three pounds of perfect strawberries of large 
size. Cook three pounds of fine granulated sugar and two cups 
of boiling water until a light thread is formed. Do not stir the 
sugar after it melts and begins to boil. Put in the berries and cook 
fifteen or twenty minutes after they begin to boil. Pour the con- 
tents on to a large platter and set in the sun to stand two days, 
or until the syrup is very thick. Store in tumblers, jars or bottk , 
cover the tops with paraffine, and set aside in a cool, dry closet. 



S40 PRACTICAL COOKING AND SERVING 

Other fruit may be preserved in the same manner. When cherries 
are used, stone them before weighing the fruit. In making the 
syrup, use the juice from the cherries instead of water. If one has a 
larger quantity of juice than is needed for the preserve, can it 
for sherbets, sauces, etc. Cover platter with panes of glass. 

STRAWBERRY PRESERVES, NO. 2 

Select and set aside the largest and most perfect berries. Mash 
the others and boil fifteen minutes without water, then strain 
through a jelly bag. Allow a pound of sugar to a quart of juice. 
Make a syrup with a pint of water to each two pounds of sugar 
and skim thoroughly. When the scum ceases to rise, pour in the 
juice of the berries and boil (from five to fifteen minutes) to the 
soft-ball degree. Pour the syrup into glass jars and, lifting the 
berries with a spoon, put in as many as the syrup will cover 
without crowding. When cold seal with paraffine. 

CITRON, MELON OR WATERMELON RIND PRESERVES 

Remove the green outer rind of the melon and cut the remainder 
into pieces of small size. Citron may be cut in slices and the 
slices, after the seeds are removed, stamped out into pleasing 
shapes. Cover with cold water and add a tablespoonful of salt 
for each quart of water. Let stand over night in the salted 
water, then drain and rinse thoroughly. Cook in boiling water 
until transparent. Drain carefully. For each poimd of rind 
make a syrup of three fourths pound of sugar and half a cup of 
water and skim thoroughly; then add the melon and for each 
pound half an ounce of ginger root and a lemon, cut in slices. Cook 
about twenty minutes, or until the pieces of melon look rich and 
full. Skim from the syrup into jars; boil the syrup xmtil rich and 
thick and pour over the fruit in the jars. 

VANILLA CHESTNUT PRESERVE 

With a sharp-pointed knife slit each chestnut shell across one side. 
Cook a minute in boiling water, drain well and let dry. Add a 
teaspoonful of butter for each pint of nuts and stir and shake over 
the fire three or four minutes. Then remove the shell and skin 
together. Keep the nuts covered with a thick cloth, as they shell 
better when hot. Soak the shelled nuts in cold water to cover, to 



BOTTLED CURRANTS S4i 

which is added a little citric acid, or a larger quantity of lemon 
juice, seven or eight hours. This is to harden the nuts, that they 
may not break in pieces while cooking. A quantity of acid about 
equal to the size of a shelled nut may be used with each pint of 
shelled nuts. The acid is harmless; but if more is used the taste 
will be noticeable. 

The nuts are in the best condition for preserving in syrup or 
as glace nuts when they are first gathered in the fall. They soon 
dry and then are likely to fall in pieces while cooking. After 
soaking the chestnuts in the acid water, drain and cover with 
plenty of boiling water. Let boil, then cook about two hours 
with the water barely quivering at one side of the pan. When 
sufficiently tender, drain and cover with a syrup made of sugar 
and water, each equal in weight to the weight of the nuts, and a 
piece of a vanilla bean. Keep hot without boiling two hours. 
Drain off half the syrup, reduce about one half, pour over the nuts 
and keep hot one hour. Drain off all syrup, strain and reduce a 
little, and, when cold, pour over the nuts. If the syrup sugars 
when cold, add a little hot water, let boil and use. Store in 
tightly dosed jars as in canning. 

STRAWBERRY-TOMATO PRESERVE 

Cook the yellow rind of a lemon and the seeded pulp, cut in 
slices, and a bit of ginger root in boiling water, until the water is 
well flavored with lemon and ginger, then strain. For each pound 
of tomatoes, removed from the husks, take half a pound of sugar 
and a cup of the flavored water; heat to the boiling point and skim, 
then add the tomatoes, cook until scalded thoroughly, then skim 
into jars. Boil the syrup untU thick, adding to it a few slices of 
lemon, selecting lemons that are not bitter, and with it fill the 
jars to overflowing. Cover securely. 

BOTTLED CURRANTS 

Mix together fine granulated sugar and dry currants, freed from 
the stems, in the proportion of one pound and a fourth of sugar 
to one pound of fruit. With a wooden mallet crush the currants 
until every fruit is broken. Fill preserving jars to overflowing 
with mixture. Adjust the rubbers and turn the covers down 
tightly. These being uncooked have the flavor of fresh currants. 



543 PRACTICAL COOKING AND SERVING 

RHUBARB AND FIG PRESERVE 

6 pounds of rhubarb, cut in short 3 lemons, juice and grated rind, 
lengths. I pound of candied orange peel. 

I pound of figs, cut in pieces. 5 pounds of sugar. 

Put the fruit and sugar into a preserving kettle, in layers, and 
let stand over night. Cook slowly about one hour. 

STRAWBERRY OR BLACKBERRY JAM (ENGLISH RECIPE) 

Allow three fourths pound of sugar to a pound of fruit. Put 
the fruit over the fire and sprinkle on a little sugar; as the heat 
draws out the juice, keep adding sugar, and when all is dissolved 
heat to the boiling point and let boil twenty minutes, stirring 
carefully not to break the strawberries. If the jam does not " set " 
at the end of twenty minutes, cook longer. 

RHUBARB JAM (SCOTLAND) 

Select the red stalks of rhubarb, as it makes the richest colored 
preserve. Take off the strings of skin, but keep as much of the 
red underneath as possible. Cut the stalks into half-inch slices, 
cover with an equal weight of sugar and let stand over night. For 
each three or four pounds of fruit add the grated rind and juice 
of one lemon. Let boil half an hour after it comes to the boiling 
point, then let simmer very gently another half an hour. An ounce 
of blanched sweet almonds, sliced thin, may be added. 

RHUBARB MARMALADE 

I quart of bright red rhubarb Yellow rind and pulp of six oranges, 

stalks. I J pounds of sugar. 

BoU the ingredients together very slowly until well reduced. 
The rind of the orange may be grated or cut into thin shavings 
and boiled tender before it is added to the other ingredients. 

PINEAPPLE MARMALADE 

Pare and remove the eyes from the pineapples,then grate them. 
Weigh the pulp and put two thirds of its weight of sugar in the 
oven to heat. Cook the pineapple in an uncovered saucepan until 
reduced somewhat, then add the juice of a lemon for each pound 



AMBER MARMALADE 543 

of fruit; add also the hot sugar and boll five or six minutes. Store 
in glasses covered securely. The yellow rind of the lemon, grated 
or cut into shavings, is for many a pleasing addition. 

APPLE, PEACH OR QUINCE MARMALADE 

Pare and core the apples and cook until tender with just water 
enough to keep from burning. Sift through a very fine sieve. 
Return to the fire with a very scant pound of sugar and the juice 
and grated rind of a lemon for each pound of pulp. Cook, stirring 
with a wooden spoon until all the water is evaporated, or until the 
marmalade does not " spread out " when taken up on a saucer. 
Pour into hot glasses. Peach and quince marmalade are made 
in the same way. 

ORANGE MARMALADE 

Take one dozen oranges and four lemons; cut each fruit in 
quarters and slice the quarters through pulp and rind as thin as 
possible, discarding all seeds. Weigh the prepared fruit, and to each 
pound add three pints of cold water. Set aside for twenty-four 
hours. Let boil gently until the rind is perfectly tender (it will 
take six or more hours), then set aside until the next day. Weigh 
the material and to each pound add one pound of sugar. Let 
cook until it thickens enough to hold up the peel. The mixture 
will thicken still more on cooling and care must be taken not to 
cook it too much. Stir occasionally, while cooking, to avoid burn- 
ing. Store in jars. 

As the marmalade is made by weight, any number of oranges 
may be used, allowing one lemon for each three or four oranges. 
Use all the water designated. When bitter marmalade is desired, 
soak the orange seeds over night in cold water, let cook an hour or 
more and add the water drained from the seeds to the other ingre- 
dients. 

AMBER MARMALADE 

Take one, each, grapefruit, orange and lemon, wash and wipe 
and cut in quarters; then through peel and pulp into thin slices, 
discarding seeds. Add seven pints of cold water and let stand 
over night. Cook until the peel is tender. It will take several 
hours. Set aside over night. Add ten cups (five pounds) of sugar 
and cook, stirring occasionally, until the syrup thickens slightly 
on a cold dish. 



544 PRACTICAL C00O.NG AND SERVING 

JELLIES 

CURRANT JELLY, NO. I 

Do not gather the currants just after a rain; extract the juice 
by pressing a few at a time in a cloth, then let drain through a 
cloth without pressure. Let as many cups of sugar as there are of 
juice heat in the oven without discoloring (stir often), then, when 
the juice boils, add the sugar and let boil a few minutes or until 
a little will jelly on a cold plate. Cook but a small portion of 
juice at a time. 

CURRANT JELLY, NO. 2; ALSO QRAPE, BLACKBERRY, 
PLUM, APPLE, ETC. 

Cut apples in quarters without removing skins or cores unless 
defective; cut plums in halves, and pull grapes and currants 
from the stems. A little water needs be added to apples, crab 
apples, quinces and other dry fruit. Avoid the use of water with 
currants, grapes, etc., let cook imtil the pulp is softened, then 
strain without pressure. Press the bag to get the last of the juice 
and with this make a second quality of jelly. Jelly made of dry 
fruits will harden after it is set aside in the glasses, and if cooked 
to the consistency usually desired in currant and similar jellies 
will be too firm and solid in a few weeks. Equal quantities by 
weight of barberries and apples make a delicious jelly. Green 
gooseberries or green plums give a delicately tinted jelly. 

CANNED STRAWBERRIES 

Weigh the berries after hulling and take one fourth the weight 
of the berries in sugar. Wash a few at a time by letting cold 
water run through them held in a colander; take one fourth the 
weight of the berries, selecting the inferior ones, and pass through 
a potato ricer or crush with a pestle; strain through a firm piece 
of cheesecloth doubled, pressing out the juice, measure the juice, 
and to it add half the quantity of water and the sugar; let boil 
twenty minutes, skimming as needed. Put the rest of the berries 
in frmt cans, the cans into a saucepan on a perforated board that 
rests on the bottom of the saucepan, or on to several folds of heavy 
paper cut to fit into the saucepan; pour in the prepared strawberry 
syrup to fill the jars; put the rubber bands in place and the covers 



GREEN SOUR PICKLES 545 

on loosely; pour in warm water to fill the saucepan rather more 
than half full, cover and let heat to the boiling point; let boil half 
an hour, then fill the jars to overflow if not already full, using the 
contents of one of the jars for the purpose; turn the covers down 
tightly and set aside to cool. Turn the covers down a second time 
after the cans have become cold, then set aside in a cool, dry closet. 
If any of the jars are to be filled from another jar, let the covers 
stand in hot water during the process. If the jars are filled to the 
top, turn the covers down without removing them. With a patent 
tin or copper "canner" the process is much simplified. 

For canning fruit and tomatoes, see page 537. For vegetables 
a canner should be purchased; the length of time required to cook 
the vegetables varies with the make of the canner. The pressure 
of steam generated in cooking is a factor in the time required for 
the process. 

PICKLES, CATSUPS, ETC. 

Kckles are not classed as hygienic relishes, but there are pickles 
and pickles. Cucumber pickles are sometimes colored green with 
sulphate of copper, which is a deadly poison. They are tinted 
green, also, by scalding in a brass or copper kettle; but while 
pickles so colored might not cause illness, no one who pays any re- 
gard to health would venture to eat them. Cucumbers scalded 
in a porcelain kettle, lined and covered with cabbage leaves, are 
also said to assume a green color. Scalding or parboiling renders 
pickles soft and tender; by limiting this they are left crisp. A piece 
of alum, the size of a small pecan nut, dissolved in the vinegar that 
is to be poured over one gallon of cucumbers, will make them more 
crisp; but alum even in small quantities cannot be called whole 
some. 

GREEN SOUR PICKLES 

Use a cup of salt to a peck of whole cucimibers or green tomatoes, 
sliced. Put in a stone jar, in layers, with the salt, cover with cold 
water and let stand over night. In the morning drain off the 
brine, scald and again pour over the vegetables. Let stand over 
night, then drain. Scald enough vinegar to cover the pickles, 
with four green or red peppers, two tablespoonfuls of whole cloves, 
and a piece of horseradish. Add the pickles and when scalded 
store in jars. 



546 PRACTICAL COOKING AND SERVING 

SWEET PICKLED PEARS, PEACHES AND MELON RINDS 

7 pounds of fruit. i cup of water. 

S pounds of sugar. f cup of stick cinnamon. 

I pint of vinegar. i cup of whole cloves. 

Remove the skins and blossom ends of pears (retain the skins of 
sickle pears), retaining the stems. Scald peaches, to remove the 
skins, or pare them. Watermelon rind should not be too thin; cut 
away all pink pulp and the thin green rind on the outside; remove 
the thin outside rind of muskmelons. , Keep peaches and pears 
whole, and cut the rind in small pieces (squares, rounds, diamonds, 
etc.). Make a syrup of the sugar, vinegar and water; skim and 
add the spices. Cook pears until tender in the syrup, then place 
in fruit jars and pour the syrup, reduced by cooking, over them. 
Scald peaches in the syrup on three consecutive mornings; on 
the third morning put the peaches in jars, boil the syrup to 
the consistency of molasses, and pour it over them. Put the 
spices into the jars with the fruit. Cook muskmelon as pears; 
watermelon rind needs be cooked in water until tender and then 
finished as the peaches or pears. 

INDIAN PICKLE OR PICKLES WITH MUSTARD 

Use a mixture of small cucumbers, or large ones cut in pieces, 
green tomatoes, sliced, cauliflower broken into flowerets, nastur- 
tium seeds, string beans, green grapes and button onions. Sprinkle 
with salt and cover with water. Use about one pint of salt to 
six quarts of water. Let stand over night in the brine, then drain 
off the brine, scald and pour it over the vegetables; let stand in it 
until cool, then drain again. For every gallon of vinegar needed 
to cover the pickles take one fourth pound, each, of curry 
powder and mustard compound (mustard of commerce), half a 
teaspoonful of cayenne, one fourth pound of salt and one pound 
of brown sugar. Heat the salt and sugar with the vinegar, mix 
the curry powder, mustard and cayenne with a little of the hot 
vinegar, and when smooth and well-diluted add to the rest of the 
vinegar; pour this scalding hot over the vegetables. 

The vegetables may be scalded in vinegar, instead of in the brine. 
This vinegar should, however, be thrown away and a second supply 
be scalded with the seasoning, for keeping the pickles. If a 
thicker consistency be desired in the vinegar, a cup of flour may be 
added with the curry powder and mustard. 



FRENCH PICKLE 547 

GREEN TOMATO SWEET PICKLES 

Remove a thin slice from the blossom ends and the hard portion 
around the stems of one peck of tomatoes. Slice the tomatoes, 
sprinkle with one cup of salt and set aside over night. In the 
morning drain and boil fifteen minutes in two quarts of boiling 
water and one quart of vinegar; then drain again. Cook, together, 
ten minutes, one gallon of cider vinegar, four pounds of sugar (less 
sugar may be used, if desired), three red-pepper pods cut in strips, 
one tablespoonful white mustard seed, whole, and one cup of 
cinnamon bark, ginger root, mace, and whole cloves, mixed in 
such proportions as are desired. Add the tomato and simmer 
gently nearly one hour, stirring occasionally. Remove the spices, 
which, with the exception of the red pepper that isto be left in the 
pickle, have been tied in a muslin bag, and store in fruit jars. Let 
the syrup completely cover the slices of tomato. 

PICKLED CAULIFLOWER 

Separate the heads of the cauliflower, steamed as usual, into 
flowerets and put them in glass jars. Fill the jars with the follow- 
ing pickle: Mix half a pound of dry mustard with half an ounce 
of tumeric, dilute to a thin paste with vinegar and stir into two 
quarts of scaldinghot vinegar; stir until the liquid begins to thicken, 
tJien add a cup of sugar, half a cup of olive oil and one ounce of 
mustard seed and simmer five minutes. 

FRENCH PICKLE. (MRS. H. O. HERSHAM) 

Chop fine half a peck of green tomatoes, one head of cabbage, 
fifteen white onions and ten large green cucumbers. Put a layer 
of vegetables into a porcelain dish and sprinkle with salt; continue 
the layers of vegetables and salt until all are used; let stand over 
night, then drain, discarding the liquid. Heat three quarts of cider 
vinegar, three pounds of brown sugar, one fourth cup tumeric, 
one fourth cup of black pepper seed, one ounce of celery seed, 
three fourths pound of mustard seed and three red peppers, 
chopped fine, to the boiling point, and pour over the vegetables. 
Let stand over night, then drain the liquid from the vegetables, 
reheat and again pour over the vegetables; repeat this process the 
third morning, then, when the mixture becomes cold, stir into it 
one fourth a poimd of ground mustard and one teaspoonful of 




BICE BAVARIAN CREAM WITH PRUNES. (See page 480.) 




INDIVIDUAL STRAWBERRY CHARLOTTE RUSSE. 
(See page 481.) 



> ts-X 




CHARLOTTE RUSSE WITH SALPICON OF FRUIT. 
(Sec page 482.) 



APPLE CHUTNEY 549 

Remove the skins from the tomatoes and chop the peppers and 
onions very fine, add to the other ingredients, boil gently, stirring 
often, one hour. Strain and boil again, if not of sufiicient con- 
sistency. Set aside in closely corked bottles, or in fruit jars 
tightly closed. 

SPICED CURRANTS, QOOSEBERRIES, ETC. 

Melt four pounds of sugar in a pint of vinegar; add seven pounds 
of currants, one tablespoonful, each, of ground cinnamon and cloves, 
one nutmeg, grated, and one teaspoonful of allspice; let boil two 
hours. 

GRAPE CATSUP 

Cover two quarts of ripe wild grapes with vinegar and cook 
\mtil soft; strain, add one cup of sugar, one tablespoonful of cin- 
namon, one teaspoonful, each, of cloves and allspice and one 
fourth a teaspoonful of cayenne. Cook until thick. Store in 
bottles. If the vinegar be strong, use less vinegar and cook 
slowly, to avoid burning. 

TOMATO CATSUP 

Scald half a bushel of ripe tomatoes and remove the skins; add 
half a cup of salt, one pound of sugar, one tablespoonful of 
cayenne pepper, three teaspoonfuls, each, of grovmd mace and 
celery seed, two tablespoonfuls of ground cinnamon, and two 
quarts of vinegar. Boil slowly until reduced one half, then pass 
through a sieve, reheat and store in sealed bottles, or in tight-closed 
cans. A larger quantity of spice is desired by many. 

APPLE CHUTNEY 

12 sour apples. i cup of currant jelly. 

I mild onion. 2 cups of sugar. 

3 peppers, one red. The juice of four lemons. 

I cup of seeded and chopped i tablespoonful of ground ginger, 

raisins. i teaspoonful of cayenne. 

I pint of cider vinegar. i tablespoonful of salt. 

Chop the apples, onions and peppers very line; add the vinegar 
and jelly, and let simmer one hour, stirring often; add the other 
ingredients and cook another hour, stirring constantly. Store as 
canned fruit. 



5SO PRACTICAL COOKING AND SERVING 

MUSHROOM CATSUP 

Pick over, wash and drain one peck of Coprinus comatus; sllc* 
and put over the fire in a saucepan with one cup of water. Cook 
until mushrooms are soft, stirring often. Press through a sieve. 
To the pulp add one pint of vinegar, two tablespoonfuls of salt, 
half a teaspoonful of cayenne, two tablespoonfuls of mustard, one 
tablespoonful of cinnamon, half a teaspoonful of mace, and half a 
tablespoonful of cloves. Cook about half an hour longer, then 
bottle and seal. 

CORN RELISH 

Cut the corn from two dozen ears; chop rather fine one head of 
cabbage, four large onions, four green peppers and one red pepper, 
first discarding the seeds of the peppers. Add one quart of 
vinegar and set to boil. Mix together three cups of sugar, three 
fourths cup of flour, half a cup of salt, one fourth cup of dry 
mustard and one teaspoonful of tumeric; when well mixed stir in 
one quart of vinegar and then stir the mixture into the hot vege- 
tables. Let simmer half an hour; add two teaspoonfuls of celery 
seed and store as caimed fruit or vegetables. 



CHAPTER XXV 



Frozen Desserts 

"Ice cream was not discovered; it was developed. A direct descendant of 
the sherbet of the Orient, it traces its pedigree back thousands of years." 
— The National Baker. 

"And Isaac brought forth the milk of the goat, cool with the moimtain, and 
said to Abraham, 'eat and drink for the sun is hot, that thou mayest be cool.' ' ' 

No FORM of dessert is held in such high esteem as the frozen; it 
is, at once, the best approved and the most palatable of all desserts. 
By the presentation of a well-prepared cream of good quality, one 
may atone for a very meagre dinner, while a mould of well-flavored 
fruit ice of attractive appearance fitly forms the crowning piece of 
an elaborate dinner. But the dinner is only one (and probably 
not the most hygienic) occasion at which an ice may be appropri- 
ately served. In the summer season ices are acceptable at any 
time and on all occasions; and they are fittingly served, also, at 
meals, or functions of ceremony, throughout the year. The 
frozen dessert has, at least, one advantage over many others: it 
is eaten in perfection only when prepared and left to ripen for 
some hours before serving. 

In England and on the continent of Europe any frozen dessert 
is called an ice. In this country, there is a tendency to restrict 
the meaning of the word "ices," applying it simply to the water 
ices, so called. The word, however, is here used in its broader sense. 

Perhaps the following outline will give a general idea of the sub- 



ject: 



Ices. 



<Cream. 



[Water 
Uces. 



.Frozen 
with 
J stirring. 
\ Frozen 
I without 
stirring. 
/Sherbet. 
) Granite. 
jFrappfe. 
'Punch. 



( Philadelphia. 
' Neapolitan. 

I Parfait. 
\ Biscuit. 
^ Mousse. 



SS^ 



SS2 PRACTICAL COOKING AND SERVING 

Besides these, mention may be made of frozen custards, frozen 
puddings, milk sherbets, souffles and frozen fruits. Some idea of 
the magnitude of the subject can be obtamed from the fact that 
there are above a hundred varieties of iced puddings known to 
French cooks, while the number of ice creams and water 
ices is limited only by the imaguiation of the one compounding 
them. 

The cost of the simple forms of these desserts is not large, if 
they can be prepared at home; and the labor involved in preparing 
them is considered great only by those who make them infrequently. 
Now that the patent freezer has reduced the time of freezing to 
a minimum, the crushing of the ice is the most objectionable 
feature in the operation. 

For home use nothing as yet has been devised by which the ice 
can be so well and easily crushed as by the use of the canvas bag 
and mallet. With the ice crushed and deposited in a large pail, 
and mth the command of a sink sufficiently large to hold the 
freezer and pail of ice, the packing, freezing, and moulding, when 
the latter is required, may be done quickly and without confusion 
or disorder. If the ice is to be served at the noonday meal, it is 
well to cook the cream or syrup, of which it is to be made, so that 
it may be thoroughly cold before it is turned into the can of the 
freezer. 

FREEZING 

When coarse salt and ice of about the same size are mixed, the 
salt melts the ice to unite with it, which, in turn, dissolves the salt, 
so that both solids are changed to liquids. This change requires 
a large amount of heat, which is absorbed from the can of mixture 
placed in the ice and salt. By the cold thus produced the mercury 
will sink below zero. Snow is particiilarly good for freezing pur- 
poses, but a little water should be mixed with it, in order to start 
the melting process. The best ice is porous, called snow ice. Such 
ice, being filled with air cells, is more readily acted upon by the 
salt. As the melting ice and salt are colder than the mixture of 
ice and salt, it is a mistake to draw off the water as fast as it is 
formed. But, when the ice floats upon the surface of the water, 
the melting process , and consequently the freezing process, is at its 
maximum, and the water, which from this point begins to rise in 
temperature, should now be drawn off and, if necessary, the mixture 
should be repacked. 



PHILADELPHIA ICE CREAM S53 

PROPORTIONS OF ICE AND SALT 

The proportion of ice to salt depends upon the texture desired 
in the article to be frozen: the larger the proportion of ice, the 
slower will be the freezing process and the smoother and finer- 
grained will be the frozen product. Hence, in freezing creams and 
sherbets, which are to be firm, velvety, and fine-grained, one 
measure of salt to three of ice is used; while in freezing "frapp^s" 
and "granites," which should be granular and coarse-grained, only 
two measures of ice to one of salt are employed. 

In repacking a frozen mixture to keep it frozen less salt may be 
used. In packing a mousse or a parfait, which is unfrozen, use 
one measure of ice to one of salt. 

Creams freeze in a shorter time than sherbets, the syrup, which 
forms the foundation of the sherbet, retarding the process. We 
make use of this fact in adding fruits to frozen dishes, as in pudd- 
ings, tutti-frutti, etc. If wines and liquors be used, the fruit is 
soaked for some hours, or over night, in the spirits; and, as alcohol 
does not freeze, the saturated fruit is thus kept from freezing also. 
Where spirits are not desired, the fruit may be soaked in a very 
rich, heavy syrup. 

PHILADELPHIA ICE CREAM 

This is a product of American invention, and is but little known 
abroad. In this country it is considered the choicest kind of ice 
cream. When properly made it consists entirely of sweetened 
and flavored cream, the flavor giving the specific name to the 
variety. The cream, which should not be too rich, may be scalded 
or not, as it suits the individual taste. It will expand more in 
freezing, if it be not cooked, giving an ice of light, fluffy texture, 
but of raw taste; what is gained in quantity is lost in quality. 
Cooking the cream obviates all danger of curdling, in case of 
atmospheric changes, and gives a firm, close-grained, velvety ice, 
which cuts like jelly. In scalding the cream, as in all dishes 
where milk or cream is called for, use a double-boiler, or a pail set 
into a kettle of hot water. The cream is scalded when tiny 
bubbles appear around the edge of the milk close to the vessel. 
Dissolve the sugar in the hot cream and when cold add the 
flavoring: in case an extract be used, one tablespoonful to each 
quart of cream will be needed. 

In making a fruit cream — strawberry, raspberr}', peach, etc. — 



5S4 PRACTICAL COOKING AND;;SERVING 

the fruit should be mashed, mixed with sugar or syrup and, after 
standing an hour, added to the cream when the latter is partly 
or wholly frozen. The quantity of sweetening to be used depends 
upon the acidity of the fruit. Strawberries and peaches may be 
pressed through a potato ricer, but raspberries must be sifted 
through a sieve fine enough to keep back the seeds. If the berries 
or fruit be not exceptionally fine-flavored, the juice of a lemon is 
required. When cream is not plentiful, milk and double cream, four 
parts of the former to one of the latter, jellied with junket tablets, 
or liquid rennet, give an article that approaches very nearly to the 
genuine Philadelphia ice cream. 

NEAPOLITAN CREAM ICE 

This ice is universally served in England and on the continent 
of Europe. It is made of cream, or rich milk, and yolks of eggs in 
proportiom from six to twelve for each quart of cream. One cup 
of sugar or syrup is allowed for each quart of cream and another 
for each dozen of yolks. Beat the yolks till light colored and thick, 
add the sugar and beat again; then add to the cream in the double- 
boiler and cook as a boiled custard till the mixture coats the 
spoon. Strain the mixture at once into a dish set in cold water; 
when it has become ice cold, flavor and freeze. 

Sometimes starchy material, as arrowroot or cornstarch, is used 
in the place of part of the eggs; in this case it is better to mix 
such material with a little cold cream or milk and cook it in the 
hot cream for ten or fifteen minutes before adding the sugar and 
yolks of the eggs. 

The Neapolitan method of making creams is considered best 
adapted to vanilla, coffee, chocolate, caramel, and the various 
nut creams. In Europe fruit flavors are thought not to harmonize 
with eggs, which are an essential part of all their creams; but any 
of the fruit pulps may be added to a Neapolitan cream with good 
results. 

PARFAIT, MOUSSE AND BISCUIT QLACE 

These delicious ices are all frozen without stirring, the peculiar 
texture of each being occasioned by freezing whipped cream. 
They are always moulded, and sherbets are frequently combined 
with them, either as the lining of the mould or as a layer of 
filling. 



WATER ICES 555 

BISCUIT GLACE AND INDIVIDUAL ICES 

Biscuit glace are moulded in individual moulds and are often 
served covered with a meringue. Individual creams and sherbets 
alone or in combination are also served in paper boxes, in shells 
of meringue, or in baskets of nougat. They are also shaped in 
individual lead moulds in the form of fruits or flowers. As these 
latter are frozen very hard and cannot be served in perfection 
without standing some time, after being moulded, in some sort of 
an ice "cave," also as they are usually tinted quite carefully to 
simulate some particular object, they are generally considered 
too troublesome to prepare with home conveniences. Paper 
cases, after being filled, are set aside closely packed, in layers 
with paper between, in a "receptacle closed tightly to keep out salt 
water, in ice and salt for an hour or more. 

FROZEN PUDDING 

A frozen pudding is made of either Philadelphia or Neapolitan 
cream highly flavored, and contains many preserved fruits and 
nuts. It is usually moulded in a melon mould, lined with lady- 
fingers. Both the frozen pudding and iced soufHes are served with 
a sauce, or with whipped cream, sweetened or flavored. 

WATER ICES 

Water ices are composed principally of syrup or sugar and fruit 
juice. Of this class of ices sherbets are the best known. There 
are simple and compound sherbets. The simple sherbet contains 
but one kind of fruit juice, though the juice of a lemon is 
usually added to each quart of syrup, in order to accentuate or 
bring out the flavor of the fruit; the compound sherbet contains 
the juice of two or more kinds of fruit. In a raspberry sherbet 
half a cup of ciurrant juice is often used in the place of lemon 
juice. 

The method of making a fine-grained sherbert — one that will keep 
frozen as long as a cream ice —is as follows: To sugar syrup 
at 28° by the syrup gauge add fruit juice to bring the density 
down to 20°, then add one teaspoonful of gelatine, softened in 
two tablespoonfuls of cold water and melted over hot water. 
When the mixture is frozen, add to a gallon of sherbet a meringue 
made of the stiff-beaten white of an egg and one tablespoonful 



5S6 PRACTICAI. COOKING AND SER^INC; 

of hot sugar syrup or powdered sugar. It is more trouble to make 
the meringue of the syrup, but it is richer and more creamy than 
the meringue made of uncooked sugar. 

In Europe most delicious sherbets are made of pure fruit juice 
and sugar, no water being used. The sugar is simply stirred into 
the fruit juice and, when it is thoroughly dissolved, the mixture 
is frozen. On account of the absence of water this form of sherbet 
is also smooth and fine-grained. 

In making granites and frappe, water is added to fruit juice and 
sugar and the mixture is frozen without cooking; the gelatine and 
meringue finish are also omitted. The omission of these things 
together with the fact that water is used vmcooked, tends to make 
these ices more or less granular and crystalline in texture. They 
are served in cups when only half frozen, and they melt very 
quickly. 

Punches are water ices to which liquors are added, usually after 
the ices are frozen. Lemon and pineapple ice are considered the 
most suitable for the purpose. They are also finished with 
meringue. 

METHOD OF FREEZING 

When a freezer with a crank is used and the chilled mixture, of 
whatever kind it may be, is packed for freezing, the amount of 
salt and ice being proportioned according to the texture desired, 
tiun the crank slowly and steadly until it becomes difficult to turn 
it longer. Open the can, remove the dasher, scrape the hardened 
mixture from the sides of the can, and beat it with a perforated 
wooden spoon till smooth; close the can, put the cork in the cover, 
draw off the brine, and add fresh ice and salt, covering the top 
with the same. Then cover the freezer with a piece of carpet or 
a blanket and allow the frozen mixture to stand two hours or 
longer, to "ripen." When a freezer without a crank is employed, 
the mixture is scraped from the sides of the can, to which it adheres 
in freezing, with a wooden spatula, and beaten thoroughly two or 
three times in the half hour which is needed for freezing. 

MOULDING 

When ice is to be served from a mould, have the mould ready, 
chilled and partly buried in salt and ice; then, when the frozen 
mixture has been well beaten, fill the mould solidly in every part, 
heaping the mixture a little above the brim; cover with a piece 




HOT CABINET PUDDING WITH JELLY. (See page 492 ) 




STRAWBERRY SHORTCAKE. (StL pagL 498.) 




PINEAPPLE OMELEi: (See page 504) 




CHRISTMAS PLUM PUDDING A LA DAVID HARUM. (See page 4giJ 



.;' ';« 




■»yfUi 



MACAROON SOUFFLE. (See page 502.) 




FRYING SCANDINAVIAN ROSETTES (See page 500.) 



SERVING ICES 55/ 

of wrapping paper, a little larger than the top of the mould, over 
this press the cover down tightly, and bury the mould in ice and 
salt, using four parts of ice to one of salt. When ready to serve, 
wash the mould with cold water, to remove the brine, and wipe 
perfectly dry; take ofE the cover and the paper, invert the mould 
on a dish and, if the room be warm, the tin may be sHpped from 
the ice in a few moments. If the mould be put into warm or hot 
water, the ice melts upon the outside and presents an unsightly 
appearance. 

Sometimes two or more kinds of cream, or sherbets, are placed 
in moulds, in even layers; when two kinds are used, an ice panachee 
results; if there be three, an ice harlequin results. WTien cream 
of two or more colors is arranged by spoonfuls without order, 
it is fashioned in pompadour style. 

When ices of two colors, either sherbets or creams, or a cream 
and a sherbet, are repacked in a melon or bombe mould, one as a 
lining, the other as a centre, the ice is called a bombe glac6. 

SERVING ICES 

For individual service, handsome glass or china cups, either with 
or without a saucer, are provided. These are quite generally 
used for pimch, frappe or sherbet, or for ice cream that is served 
with a sauce. 

Meringues and paper cases provide a favorite means of serving 
individual ices. Meringues are filled just before serving; the cases 
after being filled are set aside closely packed in a reseptacle that 
is closed tightly to keep out salt water, in equal parts of ice and salt 
for an hour or more. To serve, set the filled case inside a larger 
and more ornamental case. At serving, sprinkle with macaroon 
crumbs, sliced or chopped pistachio nuts, candied violets, etc. 

Ices frozen in moidds are often dressed on a foundation of ice 
■ — i.e., water tinted with vegetable colors, and frozen in moulds de- 
signed for the purpose then unmoulded on a serving dish covered with 
lace paper. An ice thus raised from the dish is displayed to advan- 
tage. A figure often surmounts the ice, the whole being covered with 
spun sugar. In winter these blocks will freeze over night if left 
standing in the open air. The National Baker recently published 
the following formula for freezing these stands in siunmer; "Let 
the moulds stand buried four hours in a mixture of salt, saltpetre 
and ice, in the proportion of two pounds of salt and four ounces 
^f saltpetre to six or eight pounds of crushed ice." 



5S8 PRACTICAL COOKING AND SERVING 

Plain cream ices and frozen puddings are served surrounded by 
whipped cream, a rich sauce, fruit puree iced, or preserved fruit. 
Old-fashoined preserved ginger that comes in jars is appropriately 
served with lemon ice cream. 

RECIPES FOR ICES THAT ARE STIRRED WHILE 
FREEZING 

PHILADELPHIA CREAM ICE (VANILLA) 

I cup of sugar, or 5 vanilla bean, or 

i§ cups of syrup at 28° i tablespoonful of vanilla extract, 

by the syrup gauge. i quart of thin cream. 

Scald the cream and sugar with the vanilla bean; let cool and 
freeze according to directions given above. If vanilla extract 
be used, add just before freezing. A novel and particularly good 
way of serving this cream is in small melons, the size of a break- 
fast cup. Cut out a round cover, remove the seeds, fill with cream 
and replace the cover. The melons should be previously chUled. 

NEAPOLITAN CREAM ICE (VANILLA) 

I pint of milk and 6 to 12 yolks of eggs. 

I pint of cream, or J vanilla bean, or 

I quart of rich creamy milk. i tablespoonful of vanilla extract. 

(See Neapolitan Cream Ice, page 554.) 

CREAM ICE WITH JUNKET (VANILLA) 

I cup of double cream. i junket tablet dissolved in 

I cup of sugar, or i tablespoonful of cold water. 

I I cups of syrup at 28° t tablespoonful of vanilla extract, 
by the syrup gauge. i quart of milk. 

Heat the milk and cream with the sugar until just lukewarm, 
not over 100° F.; remove from the fire, stir in the dissolved tablet 
and the flavoring, and let stand undisturbed in a warm room until 
the mixture jellies; let chill, then pour into the can of the freezer 
and freeze as usual. 

CREAM ICE WITH CORNSTARCH OR ARROWROOT 
(VANILLA) 

This form of cream ice is in reality a sweetened and flavored 
white sauce. If cream be not at hand and rich milk be used, the 



CHOCOLATE CREAM ICE 559 

ice is improved by beating into it while hot two tablespoonfuls of 
butter, a little at a time. 

I pint of rich milk. i pint of cream. 

I cup of sugar. Yolks of three or more eggs. 

I level tablespoonful of corn- | vanilla bean, or 

starch or arrowroot. i tablespoonful of vanilla. 

Scald the milk and stir into it the cornstarch or arrowroot, mixed 
with half of the sugar; stir constantly until thickened slightly, 
then occasionally for about fifteen minutes; beat the yolks of eggs, 
add the other half of the sugar and beat again; then mix with a 
little of the hot mixture, and when well blended stir into the hot 
mixture; add the cream and strain. When cold add the flavor 
and freeze. 

FRUIT CREAM ICES 

1. Crush the fruit or berries to a pulp; add the juice of half a 
lemon to each pint of pulp and sweeten to taste with sugar syrup 
(28° by the syrup gauge); add to any of the creams given above 
when half frozen; finish freezing and packing as usual. The best 
result is obtained by the use of syrup. With peaches and apricots 
retain the vanilla flavoring. With strawberries, raspberries and 
cherries it may be omitted. 

2. Mix one quart of strawberry or raspberry juice and one 
quart of thin cream with two cups or one pound of sugar; strain 
and freeze. For apricots and peaches mix a quart, each, of fruit 
pulp and thin cream and three cups of sugar syrup, registering 
28° by the syrup gauge, in which the blanched kernel and one 
fourth a vanilla bean have been infused ; then freeze as usual. Pine- 
apple juice needs be scalded before it is added to the cream, to 
avoid the bitter taste that would otherwise be occasioned by the 
action of the digestive principle in the pineapple. This bitter 
taste is even more pronounced when eggs or milk are used, either 
of which contains more of the proteid principle that is digested 
by the pineapple than does cream. Fruit ices are often improved 
in appearance by the addition of a little color paste, to heighten 
the tint of the fruit, which has been lessened by the addition of the 
cream. 

CHOCOLATE CREAM ICE 

For each quart of milk to be used for cream ice, melt from two 
*o four ounces of chocolate; add about one fourth cup, each, of 



560 PRACTICAL COOKING AND SERVING 

sugar and water and stir and cook over the fire until smooth 
and boiling, add to the milk and finish in the usual maimer. A 
piece of stick cinnamon scalded in the milk or cream, gives a 
rich, spicy taste that is a great improvement to this ice. 
Strain the mixture before freezing. 

CARAMEL CREAM ICE 

I pint of milk. 6 egg yolks. 

I J cups of sugar. i pint of cream. 

Cook three fourths cup of sugar to the caramel stage, 345° to 
350° Fahr. (See page 30.) Remove at once from the fire and, 
while it is a golden-brown color, pour onto an oiled marble or 
platter to cool; then pound quite fine and add to the milk scalded 
over hot water; beat the yolks of the eggs with the rest 
of the sugar and a few grains of salt and, when the caramel is dis- 
solved, cook these in the hot milk tmtil the mixture coats the spoon; 
add the cream and strain, or reserve the cream until the custard 
is cold. A tablespoonful of vanilla may be added if desired. If 
preferred, boiling water may be poured into the caramel and the 
liquid caramel then poured into the milk. 

BURNT ALMOND CREAM ICE 

Prepare as the above, adding a cup of blanched almonds, cut 
small and browned in the oven, to the caramel just as it is taken 
from the fire; pound the cooled mixture very smooth, adding a 
little cream if needed. Strain or not, as desired, before freezing. 

PISTACHIO CREAM ICE 

Make a vanilla cream ice by any of the recipes given above; for 
each tablespoonful of vanilla extract used add one teaspoonful of 
almond extract. Tint witli green vegetable color paste. 

STRAWBERRY CREAM ICE 

I qtiait of rich cream. i pint of strawberry juioB. 

I cup of sugar. i^ cups of sugar. 

The juice of i lemon. 

Mix the cream and cup of sugar and turn the crank of the freezer 
until the mixture is partly frozen, add the fruit juice, mixed with 



CREAM ICE WITH NUTS OR MACAROONS 56* 

the cup and a half of sugar, and finish freezing. The berries may 
be put through a potato ricer and strained through cheesecloth 
to exclude seeds. To mk the berries with the sugar and set them 
aside for an hour or two facilitates the removal of the juice. 

SULTANA ROLL WITH CLARET SAUCE 

Line a cylindrical mould (watertight, pound-size empty baking- 
powder boxes answer the purpose) with a pistachio cream ice, 
sprinkle the inside with sultana raisins cooked tender in sugar syrup 
at about 32° by the syrup gauge, fill the centre with Charlotte 
Russe filling (page 571), cover with pistachio cream ice and let 
stand an hour, packed in equal measures of ice and salt. Serve 
in slices with a claret sauce. The raisins may also be soaked in 
spirits. 

FIQ CREAM ICE 

Into an unflavored cream ice, made by any of the formulas, 
beat when frozen a cup of cooked figs, chopped fine, passed through 
a sieve and mixed with the juice of half a lemon and three or four 
tablespoonful of sherry. A plain vanilla, caramel or lemon 
cream ice is particularly good served with stewed bag figs. 

QINaER CREAM ICE 

Add to three pints of plain cream ice, made by any of the 
recipes given above, when nearly frozen, a cup of preserved ginger, 
chopped fine, pounded in a mortar, passed through a sieve and 
mixed with three fourths cup of sherry wine; then finish freezing. 
Use one quart of mUk, one pint of cream, one cup of sugar, two 
teaspoonfuls of cornstarch and three eggs or six yolks. 

COFFEE CREAM ICE 

To any one of the four recipes given for vanilla cream ice add 
two thirds cup of clear black coffee in the place of vanilla. 

CREAM ICE WITH NUTS OR MACAROONS (BISQUE) 

To the recipe for Neapolitan cream ice, when frozen, beat in a 
generous cup of either chopped nuts or powdered and sifted 
macaroons. 



562 PRACTICAL COOKING AND SERVING 

TUTTI-FRUTTI CREAM ICE 

To any of the recipes given for vanilla cream ice add, when 
frozen, sLx ounces — nearly a cup — of candied cherries, apricots, 
pineapples, etc., softened in hot syrup, or soaked in spirits, then 
drained and chilled. 

PLUM PUDDING GLACE 

To a chocolate cream ice, that made with eggs preferred, add 
when frozen a generous half pound of fruit — sultana raisins,' 
cleaned currants, slices of citron and French candied fruit cut small. 
Cook until very tender in a heavy syrup, or let stand over night 
in Jamaica rum to cover, then drain and chill. When well mixed 
with the ice, put into a melon mould, lined with lady-fingers, and 
packing three parts of ice to one of salt. Let stand an hour. 
Serve with whipped cream, sweetened or with a sauce. The lining 
of lady-fingers may be omitted. 

NESSELRODE PUDDING 

20 large chestnuts. 2 ounces of preserved pineapple. 

The yolks of four eggs. 2 ounces of currants. 

J cup of sugar. i cup of whipped cream. 

1 pint of scalded cream. Sugar syrup or maraschino to cover 

2 ounces of raisins. the fruit. 

Cook the chestnuts, peeled and blanched (see page 31), in syrup 
sugar, at 16° by the gauge, to cover tmtil tender. Cut six of the 
chestnuts in small pieces and press the rest through a sieve. 

Cook the raisins and currrants in syrup at 16° until plump and 
tender; add the pieces of chestnut and pineapple and let cool in 
the syrup. 

Cook the yolks and sugar, beaten together, in the scalded cream 
until the mixture coats the spoon; add the sifted chestnuts and 
press the whole through a fine sieve. When this is cold partly 
freeze, then add the cup of whipped cream and finish freezing; 
beat in the fruit and nuts drained from the syrup and pack in a 
fancy mould; press the cover in place over a piece of wrapping 
paper and let stand in ice and salt an hour. Serve with a rich, 
boiled custard, whipped cream, sweetened and flavored, or a 
pudding sauce. 



BANANA SUNDAE, PLAIN 563 

SAUCE FOR FROZEN PUDDING, NESSELRODE 
PUDDING, ETC. 

Beat the yolks of three eggs until thick, add three tablespoonfuls 
of powdered sugar and beat again. Stir over the fire in a double- 
boiler until the mixture thickens a little. Then pour into a cold 
dish and beat until it is cold, light and creamy. Flavor to suit 
the taste, and then mix in lightly a cup and a half of cream whipped 
to a dry, stiff froth. 

BAKED ALASKA 

Have ready a quart mould of ice cream, frozen very firm, and a 
piece of sponge cake, about an inch thick and an inch wider and 
longer than the mould of cream. Dispose a piece of paper on a meat 
or cutting board, upon this set the cake, and unmould the ice cream 
upon the cake. The cake should come out half an inch beyond 
the mould of cream, on all sides. With a silver knife spread a thin 
layer of meringue over the ice and the cake to completely cover 
them. Then with pastry bag and tube cover the thin layer with 
meringue. Dredge the whole with granulated sugar and set the 
ice-cream, just as it is, on the board into a hot oven, to brown the 
edges of the meringue. It will take about five or six minutes. 
Turn the board as is needed to color the meringue evenly. By 
means of the paper, slide the browned ice cream to a platter and 
serve at once. 

MERINGUE FOR BAKED ALASKA 

Beat the whites of five eggs until dry, then gradually beat in 
five rounding tablespoonfuls of granulated sugar. Beat thoroughly 
after all the sugar is added. Flavor with a teaspoonful of vamlla. 
The meringue, cake, board and paper act as nonconductors of 
heat, and a mould of cream well-frozen beforehand, is in just the 
right condition to be at its best by the time the meringue is lightly 
browned. 

BANANA SUNDAE, PLAIN 

Select a small banana; peel, scrape off the coarse threads and cut 
in halves, lengthwise. Set above the banana two mounds of 
vanilla ice cream, pipe a little whipped cream over each mound 
sprinkle with grated sweet chocolate and set a maraschino cherry 
in the centre. 



564 PRACTICAL COOKING AND SERVING 

BANANA NUT SUNDAE 

Prepare the banana as above; set a mound of ice cream on each 
end of the banana; let one be of vanilla and the other of caramel 
ice cream ; pipe whipped cream on the banana between the mounds 
of ice cream, pour caramel syrup over the vanilla cream and choco- 
late syrup over the caramel cream; sprinkle with chopped almonds, 
browned in the oven, and set a cherry on the top of the whipped 
cream. 

CARAMEL NUT SUNDAE 

Put a tablespoonful of caramel or maple syrup in a glass cup. 
Add a rounding spoonful of junket cream ice, pour over one or 
two tablespoonfuls of the syrup. Sprinkle with chopped pecan 
nut meats. 

COUPE BARTHOLDI 

Put a little vanilla ice cream in a glass cup; on this dispose two 
macaroons, broken in bits; on the macaroons set half a preserved 
or brandied peach and fill the space left by the peach stone with 
red bar-le-duc currants. Fill the space between the peach and 
the sides of the cup with ice cream or whipped cream and serve. 

COUPE THAIS 

Put a rounding spoonful of vanilla ice cream in a tall glass and 
on it dispose three or four slices of preserved peach, with some of 
the syrup; above this set a second tablespoonful of ice cream; 
sprinkle with a few pecan nut meats, cut in lengthwise slices; 
above the nuts pipe a little "well" of whipped cream, and in this 
well dispose a teaspoonful of bar-le-duc currants. Serve at once. 

COUPE MELBA 

Line a cup or long-stemmed glass with sliced peaches; fill the cup 
with vanilla ice cream and pour raspberry sauce over the whole. 

RASPBERRY SAUCE FROM JAM 

Mix half a cup, each, of raspberry jam and boUing water; add 
two rounding tablespoonfuls of granulated sugar and let boil 
two or three minutes; strain, to remove the seeds, and when cold 
add a teaspoonful of kirschwasser. 



STRAWBERRY CHARLOTTE GLACE 565 

RASPBERRY SAUCE FROM CANNED RASPBERRIES 

Drain the juice or syrup fron a can of raspberries and reserve 
for sherbet or other use. With a wooden pestle press the pulp of 
the raspberries through a sieve fine enough to hold back the seeds 
To a cup of this rather thick pulp add a scant three fourths cup 
of sugar and stir over the fire until boiling. Chill before using. 

COFFEE SAUCE FOR VANILLA OR LEMON CREAM ICE 

Make a boiled custard of a cup of clear black coffee, the yolks 
of three eggs and one third cup of sugar; when cold add a cup of 
thick cream. 

CURRANT SAUCE FOR SULTANA ROLL 

Sweeten currant juice, strained through a jelly bag with a little 
lemon juice, with sugar, or syrup at 32° by the syrup gauge. Or, 
boil one cup of sugar and one fourth cup of water six minutes; 
let cool and add half a cup of currant juice and one tablespoonful 
of lemon juice. 

HOT MAPLE SAUCE FOR VANILLA OR LEMON 
CREAM ICE 

Boil two cups of maple sjnrup and one fourth cup, each, of 
condensed milk and hot water to the thread degree. Pour while 
hot over a service of cream. Half a cup of cream or one fourth 
cup of butter may be substituted for the condensed milk and 
water. 

CLARET SAUCE FOR SULTANA ROLL 

Boil one cup of sugar and one third cup of water seven or eight 
minutes; let cool and add one third cup of claret. 

CREAM ICES WITH VARIATIONS 

STRAWBERRY CHARLOTTE QLACE' 

Prepare a strawberry cream ice by any of the recipes given. 
When frozen pack in a Charlotte Russe mould lined with lady* 
fingers, put into a freezing box or paU, with watertight cover, 
and let stand an hour. To serve, turn from the mould on to a dish 
with lace paper doily; garnish with unhulled berries. 



S66 FRACTICAL COOKING AND SERVING 

PEACH CREAM ICE EN SURPRISE 

li cups of sugar. Rose color paste. 

I quart of thin cream. Sliced peaches. 

I cup of peach pulp. Sugar or syrup to sweeten. 

J vanilla bean or Whipped cream. 

I teaspoonful of .vanilla extract. 5 drops of almond extract. 

Scald the cream with the vanilla bean, if at hand; when cold 
add the sugar dissolved in the peach pulp (peaches pared and 
pressed through a sieve) and the extract; freeze as usual, tint 
delicately with the color paste and use to line a two-quart 
melon mould to the depth of an inch and a half. Reserve enough 
of the ice to cover the top of the mould, and to the rest add an 
equal quantity, each, of sliced peaches, chilled, mixed with sugar 
or syrup to sweeten, and whipped cream measured after whipping. 
Use as a filling for the centre of the mould; cover this with the ice 
cream reserved for the purpose, filling the mould to overflow, press 
down the cover over a piece of wrapping paper and let stand 
buried in ice and salt one hour. Avoid longer packing, lest the 
fruit be frozen too hard. Strawberries are particularly good if 
not allowed to stand too long. Before adding the fruit to the 
centre a second lining of lady-fingers or angel cakelets may be 
used. Or, the fruit may be sprinkled with noyau or curafoa 
before being mixed with the other ingredients. 

BOMBE, ALGONQUIN STYLE 

Scald one quart of milk and one fourth cup of sugar. Beat 
the yolks of from six to eight eggs, add one cup of sugar and 
beat again; then cook in the hot milk as a boiled custard. Add 
half a cup of cream and let chUl. Add one tablespoonful of vanilla 
and freeze. Have ready a dozen lady-fingers, half a cup of cream, 
beaten firm, and half a cup of maraschino cherries with two table- 
spoonfuls of angelica, both cut fine and mixed with syrup from the 
jar of cherries. Fold the whipped cream and the fruit with syrup 
into about a cup and a half of the frozen mixture. Line a three- 
pint melon mould with the ice cream, pour a little rum or brandy 
over the lady fingers and lay them over the ice cream to interline the 
mould completely. Put the fruit mixture into the centre of the 
mould, cover with the prepared lady-flngers, over them spread the 
ice cream, cover with paper, then with the tin cover; let stand about 



PEACH SHERBET 567 

three hours in equal measiu-es of salt and crushed ice. The centre 
of the bombe should be tinted delicately with the red of the 
cherries and syrup. The fruit and lady-fingers may be soaked in 
rich sugar syrup instead of the wine. 

CHOCOLATE BOMBE WITH FRUIT 

Line a melon mould with chocolate cream ice; fill the centre 
with Charlotte Russe mixture to which has been added three 
fourths a cup of French fruit, cut fine, cooked and cooled in syrup 
or soaked in rum or sherry and then drained. Let stand an hour 
oacked in equal measures of ice and salt. 

WATER ICES 

FRUIT SHERBETS WITHOUT A SYRUP GAUGE 

1 quart of water. Scant pint of fruit juice. 

2 cups of sugar. Juice of one lemon. 

I teaspoonful of gelatine. For lemon sherbet one cup of lemon 

juice. 

Boil the w^ater and sugar twenty minutes (let boil vigorously 
during the whole time) ; add the gelatine softened in cold water, 
strain and when cold add the fruit juice and freeze. 

MUSCOVITE SHERBET 

Press a can of choice pears through a fine sieve, and a can of 
grated pineapple through a cheesecloth, pressing out all the juice 
possible from the pineapple. If more convenient and a very fine 
sieve be used, the pineapple may be pressed through the sieve with 
the pears; add the juice of two lemons, two cups and one half of 
sugar and two cups of cold water; stir until the sugar is dissolved, 
then freeze in the usual manner. 

PEACH SHERBET FROM FRESH FRUIT (ITALIAN 
METHOD) 

1 quart of peach pulp. 15 cups of sugar, or sugar syrup at 

I cup of orange juice. 32° to bring the density of the mix- 

Juice of one lemon. ture to 20° by the syrup gauge. 

Mix and freeze as usual. 



568 PRACTICAL COOKING AND SERVING 

PEACH SHERBET (AMERICAN METHOD) 

1 quart of water. lo peach kernels. 

2 cups of sugar. The juice of two oranges. 
I teaspoonful of gelatine. The juice of one lemon. 

ij cups of peach pulp. 

BoU the water, peach kernels and sugar twenty minutes; add 
the gelatine softened in two tablespoonfuls of cold water and strain. 
When cold add the peach pulp (peaches pared, stoned and the pulp 
passed through a ricer or sieve), the orange and lemon juice. 
Freeze as usual and serve from the freezer or mould. 

ORANGE SHERBET WITH SYRUP 

To any quantity of sugar syrup registering 28° by the syrup gauge 
add fruit juice to bring the density down to 20°; add also the juice 
of a lemon for each quart of mixture. One cup of lemon juice, 
or two cups of orange, strawberry or peach pulp and juice, will be 
required to reduce the density of about two cups and a half of 
sjTup at 28° to 20°. To make this quantity of syrup boil one 
pint (one pound) of sugar and one quart (one pound) of water 
twenty minutes. Add to this quantity of mixture, before freezing, 
a teaspoonful of gelatine, softened in cold water and dissolved over 
hot water, or beat into it when frozen a meringue made by beating 
one fourth cup of syrup at the thread degree into the white of an 
egg beaten until foamy. 

APRICOT BOMBE QLACfe 

Press the apricots in a can through a sieve; add the syrup from 
the can, one quart of water and two cups of sugar and stir until 
dissolved. Then freeze. Beat one cup of cream firm, also the 
white of one egg dry; beat one fourth cup of sugar into the white 
of egg, also a teaspoonful of vanilla or orange extract,, theaa fold 
in the cream. Line a two-quart melon mould with the frozen 
apricot mixture, turn the cream mixture into the centre and cover 
the cream with some of the apricot mixture, filling the mould to 
overflow. Spread paper over the ice and press the cover in place 
over the paper. Pack in equal measures of salt and crushed ice. 
Let stand about three hours. Chill the mould thoroughly before 
attempting to Une it with the frozen apricots. 



FRAPPfiS 569 

QRAPE SHERBET 

I quart of water. i pint of grape juice. 

I pint of sugar. The juice of two lemons. 

I teaspoonful of gelatine. 

Proceed as usual. 

PINEAPPLE CREAM IN PINEAPPLE SHELL 

3 cups of water. i cup of double cream. 

I pint of shredded pineapple. J cup of syrup at 32° by syrup 
I cup of sugar. gauge, or 

I teaspoonful of gelatine. \ cup of sugar. 

The juice of two lemons. 

Boil the first three ingredients twenty minutes ; add the gelatine, 
softened in cold water, and when cold add the lemon juice; strain 
and freeze to a mush; then add the cream and syrup or sugar 
beaten soHd, fill into the chilled shell of a pineapple, set in a dish 
from which salt water may be excluded and bury in ice and salt 
about an hour. 

FRUIT CUP 

Let slices of peeled peaches, bits of prepared pineapple, stoned 
cherries, peeled plums, white grapes, seeded and skinned, and 
orange sections stand ia their own juice and syrup at 35° by the 
gauge, surrounded by ice until thoroughly chilled. To serve, 
dispose in tall wine glasses and cover with a few spoonfuls of fruit 
sherbet flavored to taste. 

FRAPPES 

These ices are served half frozen (an icy granular texture is 
preferred) ; to instue this, no gelatine is used and sugar instead of 
sj^rup is usually employed. Equal measures of ice and salt also 
tend to secure this condition. Serve from a pimch bowl in cups. 
Cider frappe is sweet cider half frozen. 



570 PRACTICAL COOKING AND SERVING 

COCOA FRAPPE 

i pound of cocoa. The whites of two eggs. 

3 cups of sugar. i cup of sugar. 

2 cups of boiling water. i pint of whipped cream. 

3j quarts of scalded milk. i vanilla bean or four tablespoonfuls 

Cinnamon bark. of vanilla extract. 

Mix the cocoa and sugar, add the hot water gradually and cook 
imtil smooth, then stir into the milk scalded with the cinnamon 
bark and vanilla bean; let cook, stirring occasionally, ten minutes; 
let cool, add the flavoring, if needed, and when partly frozen add 
the cream beaten stiff and mixed with the beaten whites of the 
eggs, to which the sugar has been added, and finish freezing. Serve 
in cups with or without whipped cream, sweetened and flavored 
before whipping. 

COFFEE FRAPPE 

Dissolve three fourths cup of sugar in a quart of clear black 
coffee and freeze. Serve in frappe cups or glasses with whipped 
cream as a garnish. A forcing-bag with star tube is of assistance 
in placing the cream. 

CRANBERRY FRAPPE 

Boil one quart of cranberries in a pint of water five or six minutes 
and strain through a coarse cheesecloth; add the juice of two 
lemons and enough syrup, registering 28° by the syrup gauge, to 
bring the density of the mixture when well blended to 20°. Freeze 
to a mush. Serve in cups either with or after roast turkey. 

CANTALOUPE FRAPPE 

3 pints of cantaloupe pulp. The juice of three lemons or 
z cups of sugar. | cup of lemon juice. 

Mix the pulp, sugar and lemon and pass through a very fine 
sieve. Freeze as usual. Serve from glass cups, or from the chilled 
rind of the melon shaped into a basket. 



CHARLOITE RUSSE FILLING 571 

FROZEN APRICOTS 

Remove the skins from the apricots in a quart can and cut the 
pulp in small pieces; add the juice, one quart of water and two cups 
of sugar and stir until the sugar is dissolved. Freeze and allow 
the mixture to stand an hour or two before it is served. 

BOMBE GLACE 

These handsome ices are veiy easily prepared. The handsomest 
bombes are those in which there is a pronounced contrast in color 
between the mixture on the outside and the inside of the bombes. 
Cream or water ices may be used in combination or separately. 
Bombes in which the lining is made of a sherbet and the centre of a 
Charlotte Russe filling are always attractive and offer a compromise 
between the richness of a cream and the lack of it in a sherbet. In 
lining a mould, let the chilled mould stand in a paU of equal parts of 
ice and salt, then spread the frozen mixture evenly to the depth of an 
inch upon the inside of the mould, turn in the mixture for the centre, 
cover the frozen mixture used for the lining, filUng the mould 
to overflow, spread a piece of wrapping paper over the top and press 
down the cover over it; finish packing the mould and let stand an 
hour or two. If the mould is to stand several hours or over night 
in warm weather, omit the paper and after pressing the cover down 
tightly bind closely over the joining of cover and mould a strip 
of cotton cloth an inch wide that has been dipped in melted suet. 

CHARLOTTE RUSSE FILLING 

The white of one egg. i teaspoonful of vanilla or orange 

i cup of powdered sugar. extract, or 

I cup of double cream. 2 tablespoonfuls of wine. 

Beat the white of egg until dry and add the sugar gradually. 
Beat the cream with the flavoring until thick to the bottom of 
the bowl; fold the two mixtures together. Other flavorings may 
be used: candied fruit cut small or chopped nuts may be added to 
the mixture. Chill before using. This quantity gives a generous 
filling for a three-pint mould. 



572 PRACTICAL COOKING AND SERVING 

COMBINATIONS FOR BOMBE QLACE 

I . Strawberry, raspberry, orange or coffee sherbet and Charlotte 
Russc jSlling: The natural color of each of these gives a handsome 
contrast with the white of the cream. 2. Lemon sherbet may be 
tinted pink with vegetable color paste or liquid. 3. The natural 
yellow of orange sherbet is changed to salmon by the use of a little 
pink color. 4. Pineapple sherbet tinted a delicate green with 
white or pink centre gives a pleasing contrast. 

In bombes made of creams, chocolate ice cream with Charlotte 
Russe centre filled with candied fruit is one of the best. 

STRAWBERRY CANNELON QLACE 

Line a cyUndrical mould with strawberry sherbet, page 567, and 
fill the centre with Charlotte Russe mixture. 

RECIPES FOR ICES FROZEN WITHOUT STIRRING 

Parfaits, mousses, biscuits and souffles are the principal ices in 
this class. In each of these whipped cream is the principal in- 
gredient. The freezing is so conducted as to retain the open, 
mossy texture of the cream. On this account the whipped cream 
is carefully folded into the other ingredients, then turned into a 
mould or proper receptacle, and set aside to freeze without inter- 
ference. Biscuits take their name from their size, being in reality 
parfaits frozen in individual forms. Souffles are parfaits, rein- 
forced by gelatine and a larger proportion of liquid and frozen in 
souffle dishes. A paper band, fastened above the dish and re- 
moved before serving, accentuates the idea of the souffles. 

After much investigation and thought, though not in harmony 
with the writings of many of the foremost chefs of the daj% it seems 
best to let the use of eggs cooked with syrup as the foundation 
of an ice mark the line of di\'ision between parfaits and mousses. 
The parfaits, in which eggs and syrup are used, freeze more slowly 
than do the mousses prepared with sugar and gelatine and, in 
consequence, need stand packed in ice and salt a longer time, 
about four hours. Neither should be frozen very hard. They do 
not slip from the mould as easily as ordinary ices, and for this 
reason, as also on accoimt of improved appearance and taste, the 
mould containing them is often lined with sherbet or a fruit 
jelly. 



COFFEE PARFAIT 573 

WHITE OR ANQEL PARFAIT 

I cup of sugar. A scant tablespoonful of vanilla ex- 

J cup of boiling water. tract or half a vanilla bean 

The whites of two eggs. steeped in the sjnrup. 

I pint of double cream. 

Boil the sugar and water to the thread degree and pour in a fine 
stream on to the whites of the eggs, beaten untU foamy, beating 
constantly; when cold fold in the cream beaten solid, flavor, turn 
into a mould and let stand packed in equal measures of ice and salt 
four hours. When turned from the mould sprinkle with candied 
violets, or garnish with fresh violets and leaves. 

GRAPE JUICE PARFAIT 

Same as white parfait, after substituting one third cup of 
grape juice for the boiling water and adding half a cup of grape juice 
and the juice of half a lemon to the cream before whipping. 

SUNSHINE PARFAIT 

I cup of sugar. i tablespoonful of orange extract. 

i cup of boiling water. i pint of double cream. 

The yolks of three eggs. 

Boil the sugar and water to the thread degree and pour in a fine 
stream on to the beaten yolks of the eggs; return to the fire and cook 
over hot water until the mixture coats the spoon; beat until cold 
and add the flavor and the cream beaten solid. Let stand packed 
in ice and salt about two hours after moulding. 

COFFEE PARFAIT 

I cup of sugar. i pint of double cream. 

i cup of clear black coffee. i cup of clear black coffee. 

The yolks of three eggs. 

See Sunshine Parfait; add the second fourth cup of coffee to the 
cream before whipping, 



574 PRACTICAL COOKING AND SERVING 

CHOCOLATE PARFAIT 

Add two or three ounces of melted chocolate to the syrup foi' 
Sunshme Parfait, before adding it to the yolks of eggs, and flavor 
with vanilla. A cup of French fruit, cut small, steeped in syrup 
and drained and then sprinkled into the mixture as it is put into 
the mould improves this. 

CARAMEL PARFAIT 

I pint of double cream. The yolks of three eggs. 

i cup of granulated sugar i teaspoonful of vanilla if desired 

caramelized. j cup of hot brown almonds, iJ 

J cup of granulated sugar. desired. 

J cup of boiling water. 

Cook the sugar to caramel and dissolve in the boiling water; add 
the one third cup of sugar and cook until the syrup threads; 
pour in a fine stream on to the yolks of the eggs, return to the fire 
over hot water and cook until the mixture coats the spoon, then 
beat until cold; fold in the cream, beaten solid, and finish as usual. 

GINGER PARFAIT 

I cup of sugar. J cup of preserved ginger (root 

i cup of water. and syrup). 

The whites of two eggs. i pint of double cream. 

Juice of a lemon. 

Make an Italian meringue (boiled frosting) with the sugar and 
water cooked to the thread degree, 238°Fahr.,andthe whites of eggs 
(see page 427). When cold add the ginger, pounded in a- mortar 
and sifted, and lemon juice to taste, then fold in the whipped 
cream; turn into a mould prepared as usual and let stand buried in 
equal measures of ice and salt three or four hour's. 

MIGNONETTE PARFAIT (THE CATERER) 

Steep a cup (packed measure) of chopped mint leaves in a cup 
of cold water two hours. Heat to the boiling point, then strain 
and add to the strained water one cup of sugar and cook without 
stirring after holing begins to the soft-ball stage. Pour in a fine 



MOUSSE 575 

stream on to the whites of three eggs, beaten to a foam (but not 
dry), and beat until cold, the dish standing in ice water meanwhile. 
Add a teaspoonful of rose water, two teaspoonfuls of orange water 
and fold in a pint of cream beaten solid. Line a quart melon- 
shaped mould with part of the mixture, tint that reserved with 
leaf -green color paste or spinach juice and use to fill the centre; 
cover with the untinted cream, press the cover down over a sheet 
of waxed paper (wrapping paper answers nicely) and let the mould 
stand buried in equal measures of ice and salt four hours. When 
removed from the mould surround with sprigs of green mint and 
mignonette. The parfait itself when unmoulded exhales the odor 
of the flower that gives its name to the dish. 

MAPLE PARFAIT 

I cup of hot maple syrup. i pint of double cream. 

The yolks of four eggs. 

Pour the hot syrup, without cooking to the thread stage, on to 
the beaten yolks of the eggs; return to the fire and cook until 
the mixture coats the spoon; beat until cold and finish as usual. 
The parfaits are very rich forms of ices. 

BISCUIT TORTONI 

To Sunshine Parfait add one half cup, each, of powdered and 
sifted lady-fingers and macaroons. Then turn into paper cases 
and set in a freezing box (a mould or tin pail with close-fitting 
cover to exclude salt water may be used) with a layer of oiled or 
confectioner's paper between the layers of cases, and let stand 
packed in equal measures of ice and salt three or four hours. Before 
spreading the paper over the cases, sprinkle them with blanched 
almonds, chopped fine and browned in the oven, or with powdered 
macaroons. 

MOUSSE 

I pint of double cream. i cup of sherry wine, or 

f cup of powdered sugar. i cup of grape or other fruit juice, or 

J teaspoonful of salt i cup of clear black coffee. 

Add the salt, sugar and flavoring to the cream amd beat until 
solid to the bottom of the bowl ; turn into a chilled mould and let 
stand packed in equal parts of ice and salt about three hours. 



576 pra£;tical cooking and serving 

When the flavoring, as fruit pulp and juice, coffee, etc., would 
dilute the cream too much, as when the whip from the single cream 
is used, a teaspoonful of gelatine, softened in two or three table- 
spoonfuls of cold water and melted over hot water, may be added 
to the Uquid. When the mixture begins to thicken fold the cream 
into it. If too large a proportion of gelatine be used, the mixture 
will not freeze readily, if at all. Such mixtures are in reality 
Bavarian creams. 

BANANA PARFAIT 

I J cup of banana pulp (about i cup of candied fruit cut fine (apri- 

three bananas). cots, pineapple, cherries, etc.). 

I cup of sugar. 3 tablespoonfuls of Jamaica rum. 

Juice of half a lemon. i J cups of double cream. 

Press the peeled bananas through a ricer, then measure. Cook 
the pulp and sugar until thoroughly scalded; this is most essential. 
Beat the cream till firm. Soak the fruit (over night, if possible) in 
the rum; syrup may take the place of the rum. Fold the mixtures 
together. Finish as usual. It is well to line moulds for ices with 
white parchment paper. 

PEACH, STRAWBERRY AND RASPBERRY MOUSSE 

I pint of double cream. The juice of half a lemon. 

I cup of fruit pulp and juice. -J cup of powdered sugar. 

One teaspoonful of gelatine, softened in two or three tablespoon- 
fuls of cold water, if desired. Proceed as above. 

PEACH, STRAWBERRY AND RASPBERRY MOUSSE, No. 2 

The white of one egg. i cup of double cream. 

f cup of sugar. i cup of fruit juice and pulp. 

Beat the white of egg until stiff and gradually beat in the sugar. 
Beat the cream and fruit juice until solid to the bottom of the bowl. 
Combine the two. Fill into a mould lined with lemon sherbet, 
cover with sherbet and let stand three or four hours packed in 
equal measures of salt and ice. 

CHESTNUT MOUSSE 

I cup of chestnut pur€e. J aip of candied cherrie*. 

I cup of sugar. i pint of double cream. 

I tablespoonful, scant, of vanilla extract. 



STRAWBERRY SOUFFLE FRAPPE 577 

Dissolve the sugar in the pviree while it is hot; when cold add the 
vanilla and the cherries cut in halves. (Cook the cherries in syrup 
to cover and let cool in the syrup; drain before using.) Fold the 
cream, whipped stifE to the bottom of the bowl, into the chestnut 
mixture and turn into a mould; protect from salt as usual and let 
stand three or four hours packed in equal parts of ice and salt. 
Serve with whole chestnuts, cooked in lemon or vanilla syrup, or 
with whipped cream, sweetened and flavored, and candied cherries. 

PINEAPPLE MOUSSE WITH ORANGE JELLY 

Decorate the bottom of a chilled mould with candied cherries. 
Cover with liquid orange jelly and set aside to become firm. Mix 
one pint of double cream, three fourths cup of sugar and a cup 
of pineapple juice scalded and cooled. Whip very light. Turn 
into the mould, filling to overflow. Press the cover down over 
paper and let stand buried in equal parts of ice and salt three or 
four hours. A teaspoonf ul of gelatine, softened in cold water, may 
be added to the hot pineapple juice if desired. 

STRAWBERRY SOUFFLE FRAPPE' 

The yolka of three eggs. The whites of two eggs. 

i cup of sugar. i cup of double cream. 

J cup of strawberry juice and Strawberry jelly. 

pulp. I cup of strawberry juice and pulp. 

J cup of orange juice. The juice of half a lemon. 

5 cup of sugar. i cup of sugar, scant. 

I tablespoonful of gelatine. j cup of cold water. 
J tablespoonful of gelatine. 

Cook the yolks of the eggs, beaten %vith half a cup of sugar, in 
the fruit juice, scalded with the second half cup of sugar; add the 
gelatine, softened in cold water, strain and cool in ice water; when 
the mixture begins to thicken fold in the whites of the eggs, beaten 
dry, and the cup of cream, whipped solid. Turn the mixture into 
a souffle dish surrounded with a paper band that comes up about 
an inch above the edge of the dish. Turn the souffle into the dish, 
smooth the top and pour over it a strawberry jelly made of the 
ingredients given. (See Fruit JelUes, page 470.) Surroimd the 
dish with ice and salt and let stand four or more hours, to become 
chilled and partly frozen. The jelly may sei-ve as sauce, or the 
cold orange sauce given on page 511 may be passed with a souffle. 



S78 PRACTICAL COOKING AND SERVING 

RICE PUDDING GLACE 

i cup of rice. 1 tablespoonful of vanilla extract, or 

i teaspoonful of salt. i cup of sherry wine. 

2 cups of milk. ij cups of double cream. 

J cup of powdered sugar. 

Put the rice over the fire in plenty of cold water, let boil five 
minutes, then drain and return to the fire in a double-boiler with 
one fourth a teaspoonful of salt and two cups of milk; cook until 
the grains are tender, add the sugar and let become cold; flavor with 
one tablespoonful of vanilla and fold in the cream beaten solid. Put 
the mixture into a quart mould, filling the corners and packing 
solidly; press the cover down over a piece of wrapping paper and 
let stand packed in equal measures of ice and salt about two hours. 
The mixture should not be frozen very hard. Serve surrounded 
with orange or lemon jelly, cut in cubes, or with sliced oranges or 
pineapple, dressed with cold syrup, or with raspberry or strawberry 
preserves. 

SABAYON PUDDING 

Beat the yolks of six eggs. Add, gradually, a scant three fourths 
cup of sugar; set the dish over hot water and beat while adding 
gradually half a cup of sherry. Raise the dish occasionally from 
the water, lest the mixture cook too fast. Continue cooking and 
beating until the mixture thickens, then add the juice of a small 
lemon and beat over ice water until thick and cold; then fold in an 
equal bulk of whipped cream. Have ready stale lady-fingers, cut 
in inch pieces and sprinkled lightly with maraschino. Fill paper 
or china cases that fit into tiny silver casseroles, or cocottes, with 
alternate layers of the sabayon mixture and the lady-fingers, 
adding now and then part of a maraschino cherry. Set into a 
pail, or mould, from which salt water may be excluded, and bury 
in ice and salt until well frozen (about two hours). Serve with a 
spoonful of whipped cream, sweetened and flavored, and two or 
three cherries on the top of the ice. 

PUNCH 

Ices called by the name of punch are served just before the game. 
The foundation of these ices is a fruit sherbet; to this an Italian 
meringue and some kind of liquor is added. Roman punch is a 



SERVING ICES 579 

lemon sherbet, to a quart of which a cup of Jamaica rum and a 
meringue made of the white of one egg and half a cup of hot syrup, 
at the soft-ball stage, has been added. A quart of punch is the 
quantity called for at a dinner of twelve covers. Champagne is 
usually added to an orange ice. The sherbet should be frozen 
quite hard before the liquor is added. This may be beaten in with 
paddle or with a long-handled wooden spoon or spatula, or the 
liquor may be poured over each service as it is taken to the dining- 
room. As alcohol does not freeze, this variety of ice is soft and is 
eaten with a spoon from the glass in which it is served. 

TEA PUNCH FOR RECEPTIONS, TEAS, ETC. 

1 quart of ice cream flavored with j cup of water. 

lemon. i quart of strong tea infusion. 

The whites of three eggs. Brandy or Kirsch to taste. 

I cup of sugar. 

Boil the sugar and water to the thread stage and pour on to the 
whites of the eggs, beaten until very foamy, but not dry; beat until 
cold, then add gradually the tea, fresh made and chilled; lastly, 
mix the whole into the ice cream; turn the dasher a few times and 
serve half frozen in punch glasses. This may be served from a 
punch bowl. 

TOMATO PUNCH. (SOPHIE COHEN) 

Heat slowly to the boiling point half a can of tomatoes, one pint 
of water, three sliced apples, juice of one lemon, one cup of granu- 
lated sugar, and one fourth teaspoonful of ground ginger. Let 
boil five minutes, then pass through a fine sieve; add two ounces 
of candied ginger, chopped fine, and four tablespoonfuls of maras- 
chino. Freeze and serve in punch glasses after the roast. 

SERVING ICES 

Besides the ways of serving ices mentioned in the introduction, 
and the lining of a mould with lady-fingers, noticed in Strawberry 
Charlotte Glac6, nougat cases and croquenbouche of fruit, maca- 
roons or cake are considered worthy of attention according to Goufi'e 
and other French chefs. A croquenbouche of fruit is formed by fast- 
ening together with liquid caramel, either upon the inside or the 
outside of an oiled mould, glazed fruit. When ready to use remove 



58o PRACTICAL COOKING AND SERVING 

from the mould and set in place over a form of cream, fashioned in 
a mould of the same shape, but smaller in size, to insure a space 
between the cream and its cover. When cake is used, choose 
sponge, bride's or pound cake, cut in rounds, and ice in two 
colors. Or use cake iced in two colors, in the same manner as is 
the bread in the illustration of the Apple Charlotte (facing page 
570). In this case, instead of dipping the edges of the cake in 
caramel, arrange the pieces on the inside of the mould and 
fasten together with a piping of ornamental icing, so that when dry 
the croquenbouche may be removed in one oiece. Nougat cases 
are not usually attempted at home. 



CHAPTER XXVI 
Boiling Sugar. Candy Making 

"I can teach sugar to slip down your throat a million of ways." 

— Dekker and Ford. 

AVERAGE COMPOSITION OF SUGAR AS PT7RCHASED (aTWATER) 



Water 
Per 
cent. 


Protein 
Per 
cent. 


Carbo- 
hydrates 
Per 
cent. 


Fuel val. 

Per lb. 

Calories. 






100. 


1,860 






82.8 


1,54° 


18.2 


.4 


81.2 


1,520 



Granulated sugar 

Maple sugar 

Honey 

Ices are more accurately prepared when a syrup of a certain 
density is used instead of sugar and water. Syrup is also preferable 
to sugar for sweetening fruit punch, lemonade, etc., and many prefer 
it for sweetening tea and coffee. Sugar is also boiled for nougat, 
many kinds of candy, for fondant used in candy making and icing 
cakes, and for spun sugar, of which there are several varieties. The 
boiling and spinning of sugar and the making of candies are 
classed among the " frills of cookery." But though every one can- 
not hope to master aU the intricacies of this branch of the culinary 
art, there is no reason why young people should nor become, with 
advantage to themselves, expert in making simple wreaths of spun 
sugar or candies from boiled sugar and fondant. In fact,what bet- 
ter training in habits of accuracy of observation and judgment 
can be had than that which is necessary in boiling sugar to the 
various degrees required in candy making. The sugar passes 
so quickly from one stage to another that nothing but the strictest 
attention to the business in hand will insure success. With a 
sugar thermometer the condition of the sugar can be determined 
at a glance. Professional candy makers, from daily experience, 
may dispense with the thermometer, but tyros in the art will find 
it of great advantage. 

581 



582 PRACTICAL COOKING AND SERVING 

DEGREE IN BOILING SUGAR 

In boiling sugar some fourteen degrees of density are recognized 
by the confectioner; six of these are required in home candy making. 
These are designated as: Blow, soft ball, hard ball, soft crack, 
hard crack and caramel. The blow degree is indicated by the 
thermometer at from 230° to 236°. To determine this degree 
without a thermometer, put a small skimmer into the boiling 
syrup, withdraw, hold up and blow through it. If small air bub- 
bles appear on the opposite side the degree is reached. 

SOFT BALL FROM 238° TO 242° FAHR. 

This degree is indicated by the thermometer at from 238° to 
242° Fahr. To determine this stage without a thermometer, have 
ready a wire skewer standing in a dish of cold water, remove this 
from the water, plunge into the syrup and then back again into 
the water; let remain in the water about ten seconds, then push off 
the sugar between the thumb and forefinger and, if it can be 
worked, below the water, into a soft ball that does not stick to 
the fingers, it is boiled enough. Another way of testing is to dip 
a fork into the syrup and let the syrup drop from the fork back 
into the dish; if, after all the drops have run off, a long hair-like 
thread remains, the syrup is boiled enough. This appearance is 
always seen in any stage above the soft ball. 

HARD BALL. ABOUT 248° FAHR. 

Test in the same manner as for soft ball. If the cooked sugar 
forms a hard solid ball between the thumb and forefinger, the 
degree is reached. 

SOFT CRACK. ABOUT 290° FAHR. 

After the sugar is pushed from the skewer, drop it into water, 
remove and press upon the teeth; if it clings, but does not stick to 
the teeth, the stage is reached. 

HARD CRACK. ABOUT 310° FAHR. 

At this stage when pressed between the teeth the candy leaves 
them clean and free. 



FONDANT 5S3 

CARAMEL DEGREE. 345° TO 354° FAHR. 

Sugar cooked to this stage is used for spun sugar, for holding 
together macaroons and wafers, and for lining moulds in which 
custard is to be baked. The syrup is of a dark yellow color and 
snaps and breaks like thin glass when cooled. As it grows dark 
in color very quickly, when the right stage is reached, the vessel 
containing it needs be set at once for a moment or two into cold 
water to arrest the cooking. 

SYRUPS FOR ICES 

Syrup gives more satisfactory results than does sugar in sweeten- 
ing compotes and especially water ices. Syrup does not, how- 
ever keep well for a very long time; boiled to a high density the 
surface soon crusts over, and, at low density, mould soon appears 
on the surface. On this account in small families, unless ices are 
made almost daily, it is preferable to make as occasion demands. 
If, however, the making of ices, compotes, etc., be of frequent 
occurrence, it is well to have on hand a stock of syrup registering 
from 28° to 32° by the syrup gauge. To prepare water ices, 
simply add fruit juice to bring the density down to 18° or 20°. 
To test the syrup, turn a Uttle into a test tube or tall bottle about 
an inch and a half in diameter, put in the syrup gauge and note 
the degree at which the gauge floats; if the right degree be not 
indicated return the syrup to the saucepan and continue boiling, 
until when thus tested the correct density is secured. 

TO PREPARE SYRUP WITHOUT A QAUQE 

Put two cups of sugar and a cup and a half of water over the fire, 
and stir until thesugar ismelted and boiling begins; then let boil rap- 
idly about five minutes, when it will register 28°; every five minutes' 
additional boiling will thicken it one degree, thus, when it has 
boiled ten minutes longer, the syrup has a density of 30° and so 
on. The ingredients mentioned give two cups of syrup registering 
28°. A Cjuart of water andone pint of sugar, the quantity often 
indicated for water ices, boiled twenty minutes, gives two and one 
half cups of syrup registering 28°. 

FONDANT 

Fondant is the basis of all French cream candies. It also makes 
tte best frosting for eclairs and small cakes. The varieties of 



S84 PRACTICAL COOKING AND SERVING 

candies made from fondant is also limitless. This is produced 
first of all by the kind of sugar used in the fondant itself, as white 
or maple, then the white may be varied by tinting and flavoring to 
correspond. The flavors in general use are vanilla, almond, rose 
lemon, orange, peppermint and wine. The centres may be of 
fondant, or of nuts or French fruit, either alone or in combination. 
Marshmallows, gumdrops, pieces of fruit, or whole cherries, may 
be dipped in fondant, producing candies named from the article 
"dipped." To make fondant successfully, experience is needed; 
but, as all sugar, provided it be not absolutely burned, may be 
used over again for same or other purpose, time would seem to be 
the one item of which an outlay is required. A beginner might 
start out with a pound of sugar (two cups) and half a cup of water. 
Set over the fire and stir until boling begins, then remove the spoon 
and in few moments, with the hand or a brush dipped in cold 
water, wash down the sides of the saucepan, to remove any grains 
of sugar that have been thrown up in boUing. Cover again and let 
cook about live minutes. This process wUl tend to decrease, if not 
to obviate entirely, the accumulation of sugar on the sides of the 
saucepan. Now add one fourth teaspoonful of cream-of-tartar; 
and, if fondant is to be cooked by means of a thermometer, 
put the thermometer into the syrup, and let the syrup cook until 
the temperature rises to about 238° Fahr., the soft-ball stage. The 
exact degree on a particular thermometer to which the sugar needs 
be boiled can be accurately determined after two or three trials 
and marked accordingly. When boiled just right, one thermometer 
might indicate 236°, another 238°, and still another as high as 
242°. 

WORKING THE FONDANT 

When the sugar is done tirrn it on to a large platter, or a marble 
or slate slab, lightly dampened with water or rubbed over with the 
best grade of olive oil. Let stand undisturbed until a dent can be 
made in the surface, then work the candy back and forth, with a 
wooden spatula, to a white, smooth', soft, creamy paste. While 
the paste is still soft and warm, gather together and knead 
with the hands as bread is kneaded, then press into an earthen 
bowl or a glass fruit jar, and cover closely with confectioner's 
paper, then again with a double fold of heavier paper. Store 
in a cool place. After twenty-four hours the fondant is ready 
for use. 



DIPPING THE CENTRES 585 

WHAT TO AVOID 

If the syrup be jarred while boiling, or if due care be not exercised 
in washing down the particles of sugar from the sides of the sauce- 
pan, or the mixture be not cooled enough before working with the 
spatula is begun, or if it be cooked too long, the fondant will not 
be smooth and creamy, but granular. To remedy this water may 
be added and the whole process repeated. 

USING FONDANT. THE CENTRES 

The fondant may be made into "centres," though its principal 
use is for "dipping" centres of some other material, as fruit, nuts, 
marshmallows, etc. When it is to be made into centres, put a por- 
tion of the fondant on a large platter or marble slab and work into 
it such flavoring as is desired (chopped fruit and nuts may also be 
added), then shape into cones, balls, etc. Or, wrap a little fondant 
about the meat of a hazelnut, a blanched almond, a pistachio nut, 
or a candied cherry, and set aside on confectioner's paper several 
hours to harden. 

DIPPING THE CENTRES 

Melt a portion of the fondant over hot water (double- 
boiler), adding a few drops of hot water, or syrup at 30°, 
and such flavoring as is desired. Beat constantly while the 
fondant is melting, also while the centres are being dipped, 
to avoid the formation of a crust. The fondant may be tinted 
at this time very delicately with color paste. Drop in the 
centres, one at a time, and, when well covered, remove with 
fork or candy tongs to a sheet of confectioner's paper, bringing 
the fork or dipper up over the top of each piece, to show that the 
bonbons were "hand dipped. '' Decorate at once such pieces as are 
to be ornamented with pieces of fruit or nuts. To decorate cones 
with chopped nuts, wait imtil the fondant is set, then dip the base 
delicately into the hot fondant and then into the chopped nuts. 
Chopped nuts may be used to give an acorn shape by dipping the 
round end of cone-shaped centres first in fondant and then in 
chopped nuts. These are very pretty when the fondant is choco- 
late color and the nuts are chopped almonds browned in the oven. 
Green-tinted cones dipped in chopped pistachio nuts are also 
pretty. 



586 PRACTICAL COOKING AND SERVING 

CANDIES FROM FONDANT 

PEPPERMINTS 

Melt the fondant over hot water, as described in "dipping the 
centres," and flavor to taste with a few drops of oil of peppermint 
or a larger quantity of the essence; leave white or tint a delicate 
green with color paste, then drop from the tip of a spoon, or with a 
peppermint dropper, upon oUed paper. For rose mints flavor with 
rose extract and tint with rose color paste. 

CHOCOLATE MINTS 

When the "mints" are cold, drop them, one by one, into fondant, 
to which melted chocolate and vanilla have been added, then re- 
move with a candy fork on to oiled paper again. Fondant makes 
the most creamy mints, but if this is not at hand, mints may be 
quickly made by the following recipe: 

FIVE-MINUTE PEPPERMINTS 

I cup of white sugar. Leaf-green color paste, or 

i cup of boiling water. Damask rose color paste. 

6 drops of oil of peppermint. 

Dissolve the sugar in the water, and let boil vigorously five 
minutes without stirring. Remove from the fire and beat until 
a thick cream, adding, meanwhile, six drops of oil of peppermint 
and enough color paste to give a delicate green or pink tint. Drop 
in roimds from the tip of a spoon on to paraffine or confectioner's 
paper to cool. 

CHOCOLATE CHESTNUTS 

Drain whole chestnuts, cooked as a compote or preserve, from 
the syrup; let dry in the warming oven, then dip into melted 
fondant, to which melted chocolate and vanilla have been added; 
let stand on oiled paper. 

TUTTI-FRUTTI FONDANT 

Soften two pounds of fondant over hot water; beat into it th« 
white of an egg, beaten until very frothy but not stiff, two ounces, 



CHOCOLATE CARAMELS 5S7 

each, of chopped or fine-cut citron, almonds, candied cherries, and 
pineapple, and a teaspoonful of vanilla, and turn into an agate 
pan lined throughout with oiled or paraffine paper; cover with 
paper and place a second tin upon the fondant to press it with a 
light weight. Too much weight will make it heavy. Let stand 
twenty-four hours, then slice through the paper. Melted chocolate 
may be added with the fruit, and alternate layers of fruit and plain 
fondant, or plain and fruit chocolate fondant may be moulded at 
pleasure. 

MAPLE FONDANT 

I cup of maple sugar (J pound). i teaspoonful of cream-of-tartar. 
I cup of granulated sugar. J cup of hot water. 

Prepare as ordinary fondant. 

MAPLE AND WALNUT SURPRISE 

Shape white fondant, flavored with curajoa and mixed with 
chopped cherries, into flat rounds, one fourth an inch thick and the 
size of an English walnut; let stand to harden an hour or more 
(over night is preferable), then dip into melted maple fondant and 
press half an English walnut on to the top of each. 

MAPLE FONDANT NUT BARS 

Stir a cup of chopped nuts into a pound of melted maple fondant 
and turn into a buttered brick mould to a depth of three fourths 
an inch. When cold cut into bars. 

CARAMELS 

Glucose is used in some of the best of caramels; but with or with- 
out glucose the boiling should be continued to about 250° Fahr., 
the "hard-ball" stage. During the last of the cooking the candy 
must be stirred constantly, to avoid burning. When cooked it 
should be poured into rectangular pans of such size as will insure 
a thickness of three fourths an inch. When firm, but not quite 
cold, cut into small squares. The pans need be well buttered. 

CHOCOLATE CARAMELS 

Stir together over the fire one cup of molasses, half a cup of 
granulated sugar^ and one fourth cup of water until the sugar 



5SS PRACTICAL COOKING AND SERVING 

is dissolved. Add Iwo teaspoonfuls of butter and two squares, 
or ounces, of chocolate. Stir until the chocolate melts, then cook, 
without stirring, untU a little tried in cold water may be formed 
into a hard ball. Flavor with a teaspoonful of vanilla. The 
fire must be quite low for the last of the cooking, or the mixture 
will burn. (See Caramels.) 

VANILLA CARAMELS 

Put over the fire two cups of granulated sugar, half a cup of cream, 
one fourth cup, each, of molasses and butter; stir until the sugar 
is dissolved, then let cook without stirring from fifteen to eighteen 
mLnutes, or until a hard ball rnay be formed in cold water. Flavor 
with a teaspoonful of vanilla, and beat imtil creamy. Substitute 
one fourth pound of melted chocolate for the molasses, if desired. 

VANILLA CARAMELS WITH GLUCOSE 

Stir half a can of condensed milk into a cup of sweet cream or 
milk. When evenly blended, add three fourths pound of granu- 
lated sugar (one cup and a half) and six ounces of glucose. Cook 
over a slow fire, stirring constantly, until a little tried in ice water 
forms a hard ball that softens a little between the fingers. Flavor 
with a teaspoonful of vanilla. 

VANILLA CARAMELS WITH NUTS 

Add the meats from about a dozen English walnuts broken 
into halves. 

CHOCOLATE CARAMELS WITH GLYCERINE 

I cup of molasses. i tablespoonful of .glycerine. 

I cup of sugar. 3 ounces of chocolate grated. 

3 tablespoonfuls of butter. i teaspoonful of vanilla. 

Cook according to directions for caramels, adding the chocolate 
near the last of the cooking. 

FUDGE. (HAROLD HILL) 

Heat two cups of sugar and two thirds a cup of milk to the boiling 
point; add two squares of chocolate and stir constantly until the 




w 
Pi 
u 

a 

<! 

< 
P 



Pi 
M 




M 

2; 

< 

o 
> 



O 







SALFICON OF FRUIT IN GRAPE FRUIT BASKET. (See page si8.) 




WATERMELON IN WEDGE-SHAPED SLICES, (See page 521.) 



\ 






/"^fl^^ 






-rj5 


t ■ 






^^flPH 












J 


1 


SBB^ 


P 


1 


^""**'*P'iiM!! 


^H 




KHIP'fk" 








* 



PINEAPPLE AND 



PEANUT BMTTIE S§9 

chocolate is melted. Boil eight minutes; add three (level) table- 
spoonfuls of butter and boil seven minutes; remove from the fire, 
add one teaspoonful of vanilla and beat until the mixture is creamy 
and sugars around the edge of the saucepan. Pour into buttered 
pans, cool slightly, then mark in squares. 

VANILLA SUGAR CANDY 

2 pounds (4 cups) of granulated 2 tablespoonfuls of butter. 

sugar. I tablespoonful of glycerine, 

f cup of wateE 2 tablespoonfuls of vanilla, 

i cup of vinegar. 

Boil all, save the vanilla, without stirring (from twenty minutes 
to half an hour), to the hard-ball degree; pour on a platter, add 
the vanilla, and when cool pull over a hook, and cut into short 
pieces. 

MOLASSES CANDY 

2 cups of molasses. i tablespoonful of glycerine. 
1 cup of sugar. J teaspoonful of soda. 

3 tablespoonfuls of butter. 

Boil to the hard-ball degree; stir in the soda, and when cooled 
pull until white as desired; draw out into sticks and cut into inch 
lengths. 

MAPLE CREAMS. (SADIE LOCKE, MAINE) 

3 cups of maple syrup or i cup of thick sweet cream. 

I pound of maple sugar, grated. 

Boil the sugar and cream to the soft degree; beat with a silver 
fork tmtil it is of the consistency of very thick cream. Pour in 
buttered tins or tins lined with paraffine paper and when cool cut 
into squares. A cup of nuts may be added when the mixture 
begins to thicken. Half a cup of butter may take the place of the 
cream. 

PEANUT BRITTLE 

3 cups of brown sugar. i cup of water. 

I cup of New Orleans molasses. i pound of butter. 

^ teaspoonful of cream-of- 2 teaspoonfuls of soda, 

tartar. ^ pint of peanuts. 

Boil all the ingredients, except the last three, to the hard-ball 
stage. Add the peanuts and boil to the hard-crack stage; add the 



590 PRACTICAL COOKING AND SERVING 

butter and when this is incorporated remove from the fire and add 
the soda, dissolved in a tablespoonful of water, and stir vigorously. 
When the mixture begins to rise pour upon a marble or platter 
and spread thin. When cold break or cut in pieces. Raw peanuts 
must be used. 

COCOANUT CREAM CANDY 

Boil two cups of sugar and half a cup of milk, or, better still, 
condensed milk diluted with water, four minutes after boiling 
begins, washing down the sides of the saucepan as needed. Add 
one fourth teaspoonful of cream-of-tartar and let boil to "blow" 
stage, between 230° to 236° Fahr. When boiled enough remove from 
the fire, add two tablespoonfuls of grated chocolate, half a pound 
of grated cocoanut — fresh cocoanut is preferable — and a table- 
spoonful of vanilla extract, and stir until thickened slightly. Then 
drop from the end of the spoon on to confectioner's paper. Set a 
nut or a piece of candied fruit on the top of each candy. 

FIG AND NUT CONFECTIONS 

Cut choice pressed figs in halves through the blossom ends; 
sprinkle the inside of each half with thin slices of English walnuts 
or pecan nuts; roll up tightly; then roll again in powdered or fine 
granulated sugar. 

STUFFED RAISINS 

Cut open choice raisins on one side and remove the seeds; fill 
with bits of blanched almonds, English walnuts, or candied cherries; 
close each raisin thus filled and wrap in another seeded raisin. 
Roll in fine granulated sugar. 

NUT AND FRUIT CONFECTIONS 

Chop very fine one pound, each, of figs and English wahiut 
meats, and half a pound, each, of dates and candied cherries. 
Work with the hands until well mixed. Roll out into a thin sheet 
on a board, well dredged with confectioner's sugar. Shape with 
a small cutter, then roll in sugar. 

STUFFED PRUNES 

Soak large and perfect prunes in cold water several hours; steam 
until the skins are tender and the stones easily removed. Take 



CARAMELED NUTS 591 

out the stones and fill the open spaces with dates, figs or candied 
fruit chopped fine with an equal bulk of pecan nuts or English 
walnuts. Press the prunes into symmetrical shape, then roll 
in fine granulated sugar. Let stand several days before serving. 

SPUN SUGAR 

Boil one pound of sugar, half a cup of boiling water and one 
fourth a pound of glucose to 285° Fahr., or the crack stage. Follow 
the directions given for boiling sugar, to make fondant. When 
cooked set the saucepan into a dish of cold water, to arrest further 
cooking, then when cooled a little set into a dish of hot water. Have 
ready wooden supports fastened to the kitchen table — soft wooden 
spatulas answer well ; let these project about two feet from the table 
and be about two feet apart. Spread a clean paper beneath them. 
Dip a sugar spinner into the cooked sugar and pass it round and 
round the spatulas; the sugar will spin from each point of the spinner 
in a fine, thread-like cobweb round the spatulas. The threads be- 
come firm and stiff almost instantly. Repeat the dipping and 
swinging of the spinner imtil a sufficient mass has been formed; 
then remove and coil into the shape desired; wreaths and nests 
are most common forms. If the sugar be too hot or too cold the 
spinning will be unsatisfactory. When too cold reheat, adding a 
little water and boiling again toward the last of the process. In 
crisp, clear, cold weather spun sugar will remain crisp a day or 
two, but it is better made the day on which it is to be used. 

CARAMELED NUTS 

Boil a cup of sugar and one fourth cup of water to the hard- 
crack, or caramel degree. Do not stir after the sugar is dissolved. 
Wash down the grains of sugar thrown up in cookmg as in making 
fondant. When the proper degree is reached add a few drops of 
lemon juice. Have ready pecan nuts, English walnuts or blanched 
almonds, heated without browning. Drop the nuts, one at a time, 
into the cooked sugar; without stirring the sugar, coat the nut and 
lift out on to an oiled or confectioner's paper. It is necessary 
to work very quickly. Reheat the sugar when needed. When it 
becomes too thick add a few drops of water and cook again to the 
correct degree. 



592 PRACTICAL COOKING AND SERVING 

CRYSTALLIZED NUTS 

Boil the sugar to the crack stage, dip as above, then roll while 
hot in coarse granulated sugar. The hard-crack degree, 310° Fahr. , 
is the last stage before the syrup takes color. 

MARRONS QLACES 

Prepare the chestnuts as for compote. Dry the nuts, then take 
them, one by one, on a skewer, and dip into sugar and water that 
has been cooked to 310 degrees. Lay the nuts on an oiled paper 
to cool. Remove the syrup from the fire as soon as the ther- 
mometer registers the proper number of degrees. If it becomes 
too cold let stand in hot water. 

CANDIED ORANGE OR LEMON PEEL 

Let the peel, removed in halves or quarters, stand over night 
in salted water. Wash thoroughly. Let boil, changing the water 
several times, until the peel is tender. If the peel does not taste 
salty, the water need not be changed. When the peel is tender, 
remove such parts of the bitter white portion as is desired. Leave 
the sections whole, or cut into narrow strips or shreds. Make a 
syrup of a pint of water and a pound of sugar; skim, and put into 
it a pound of the cooked peel; let simmer until the syrup is nearly 
absorbed, then boil rapidly and stir imtil well coated with sugar. 
Let dry in a warming oven, then store in a closed receptacle. The 
strips may be woven into baskets or nests while hot and pliable. 
The nests are particularly pretty filled with three candy eggs, as 
Easter souvenirs. Crystallized mint leaves are a pretty decoration 
for the nests. 

CANDIED VIOLETS 

Remove the stalks from a pound of violets and rinse them in 
cold water, then spread them on a towel to dry. Cook a pound and 
a quarter of sugar to the soft-ball stage, remove from the fire and 
add the voilets; press them down xmder the syrup, retiun to the 
fire and let boil up once, then transfer, at once, to a cold dish. The 
next day drain on a sieve. To the syrup add half a cup of sugar 
and cook again to soft-ball stage; put in the flowers and set aside 
for twelve hours; drain again, heat to the boiling point and add the 
violets. Remove from the fire and stir the \dolets lightly, until 



CANDIED PANSIES, MINT LEAVES, ETC. 591 

the sjTup begins to grain, then pour on to sheets of paper; shake 
and separate the flowers carefully with the hands, and, when dry, 
pick them from the graniilated sugar. Rose petals and mint 
leaves may be candied in the same manner. Add a cup of water 
to the sugar when setting it over the fire to cook. 

CANDIED PANSIES, MINT LEAVES, ETC. 

Set an ounce of gum arabic and half a cup of cold water over the 
fire in a double-boDer and stir while melting. When cold use in 
brushing over the leaves, petals or blossoms. If flowers are used, 
the stems must be covered with the solution, as, also both sides of 
leaves and petals. Let dry on table oilcloth. More gum arabic 
may be added if the misture be too thin to dry well. Make a 
syrup of half a cup of water and one cup of sugar. Let boil to 
234° Fahr. When cold dip into it the prepared articles and dredge 
with granulated sugar on both sides. 



CHAPTER XXVIT 
Food for the Sick and Convalescent 

A carefully regulated diet has, in numberless cases, proved one of the best, 
if not the very best, correctives of disease. — Doctor Shepard. 

"All that a man hath will he give for his life," 

Difficult as it is to select a dietary for the well, it is even more 
difficult to decide upon the proper articles of food for the sick or the 
convalescent; for the thought of the housekeeper in general is 
concentrated on feeding the well and not the sick. Diet for the 
sick should be modified by the nature of the disease; hence it needs 
be under the personal supervision of a practitioner who believes in 
the curative power of dietetics. The physician should know how 
to cook and prepare the food that he orders for his patient; for 
a properly trained nurse is not always at hand to cook, or super- 
intend the cooking of a patient's meals, and many a housekeeper 
or "good, plain cook" is ignorant of the first principles involved 
in making properly a cup of gruel or broth, or in toasting a slice 
of bread. 

It is not our purpose to repeat here directions or recipes that 
have been given in other parts of this volume, for "what will make 
a sick man well will also keep him well," but to refer simply to 
some dishes that may be safely used to supply nutrition under 
certain circumstances or conditions of health. A patient recover- 
ing from illness is often in so weak and precarious a condition that 
the slightest indiscretion in diet may put ofE the day of recovery 
weeks, even, if it do not prove fatal. 

When a new dish is allowed by the attending physician, only a 
small service or portion should be given at first, and the effects 
should be carefully noted; for nowhere are thought and judgment 
more needed than in selecting food for the sick, or for young 
children, and in the feeding of both the same rules are to be ob- 
served. 

594 



THE SERVICE 595 

REGULARITY IN FEEDING 

It has come to be well known that medicines are to be given at 
stated intervals; it is just as essential to present food at stated 
periods. Regularity in feeding is conducive to welfare of both sick 
and well. "The stomach is a good servant: let his hours of re- 
pose be unbroken." 

THE SERVICE 

Those who are fastidious in respect to food while well are doubly 
so when ill, and the china and other accessories should be of the 
choicest at hand. Scrupulous cleanliness should be observed in 
the minutest particulars. Food should never be tasted in 
the presence of an invalid, and he should feel beyond suspicion 
that the fork or spoon presented him has not been negligently 
handled. The patient who insisted that she be allowed with her 
own hand to throw into a common receptacle all broths, gruels, 
etc., left in the cups simply wished to assure herself against 
the return of those items after they had been left standing un- 
covered. 

The fundamental principles involved in feeding the sick have 
been tersely expressed by one skilled in the medicinal art as fol- 
lows: 

ist. The avoidance of all articles that disagree with the existing 
condition of the patient. 

2nd. The giving of the food best adapted to relieve the digestive 
organsof unnecessarylabor and at the same time maintain nutrition. 

3rd. For certain special diseases there are classes of food that 
possess distinctly curative value, as fresh fruits and vegetables 
for scurvy, fats and oils in tuberculosis, and pineapple juice in 
catarrhal affections of throat and alimentary canal. 

An example of the first principle, viz. : avoidance of all articles 
that disagree with existing conditions, is seen in the dietary pre- 
scribed for diabetic patients. We know that the carbohydrate 
principle in food is by the process of digestion changed into sugar, 
that a part of this sugar goes at once into the circulation and a part 
is stored in the liver for future use as glycogen. In cases of diabetes 
all the carbohydrates taken as food are eliminated by the kidneys, 
as grape sugar or glucose, oftentimes in the space of twenty-four 
hours. This elimination is accompanied by distressmg symptons. 
Under these conditions the carbohydrates are gradually eliminated 
from the dietary, and to make up for this deficiency the quantity 



596 PRACTICAL COOKING AND SERVING 

of proteid, principally the quantity of fat, needs be increased. In 
severe cases sugar is made out of proteid, but it is not formed in 
such quantity as occurs when starch is contained in the dietary. 
Bread, being largely starch, is prohibited, as are also vegetables 
grown imder groxmd. As fat, measured by the amount of heat 
liberated during its oxidation, has a high nutritive value, a smaller 
quantity, comparatively, is needed to make up the deficiency than 
would be the case if the deficiency were made up from proteid. 
But the problem is to present the fat in a pleasing form. A 
physician and specialist in diabetes, in lecturing on the food of 
diabetics, alluded to the following ways in which butter could be 
presented and which in practice had been found acceptable: Four 
ounces of butter is often thought to be needed each day, to insure 
the proper amount of nutriment. Thin slices of cheese, spread 
generously with butter, were used instead of bread. A piece of 
butter was put into a cup and hot coffee poured over it; the coffee 
was sipped while quite hot. Butter was used profusely on all 
cooked vegetables that were allowed, as spinach, string beans, beet 
lops, celery, and okra. Bacon is a desirable addition to all sorts 
of dishes. 

The number of vegetables without starch in composition being 
rather limited, it is advisable to present the vegetables in large 
quantity, one at a meal to avoid the patients tiring of them. 
Proteid food being highly concentrated vegetables need be used 
freely to secure waste and successful elimination. Saccharine is 
put into cranberries at the close of the cooking, to make them less 
soxur. When cream is allowed, ice cream may be prepared with 
saccharine in the place of sugar. 

Eggs are one of the main dependencies of the diabetic, as many 
as six are required in a day. These may be taken in egg-nogg 
(sweetened with saccharine), in coffee, or cooked by any recipe in 
which starch or sugar is not used. The whites of two eggs, beaten 
and mixed with a glass of cold water and, if allowed, flavored with 
lemon juice, are good for diabetics and also in most conditions 
where nourishment in an easily digested form is demanded. 

"More is to be done for asthmatic patients on the side of the 
stomach than in any other direction," for errors in diet are liable to 
to precipitate an attack. A cup of very hot water is of advantage 
if taken an hour before each meal and again at night. No water 
should be taken with the meals, or imtil at least t^ee hours after. 
As the attacks of the disease are usually worse at night, the prin- 
cipal meal should be eaten at midday, and the supper be made 




BLUSHING APPLES WITH ORANGE SAUCE. (See page 524.) 




APPLE CHARLOTTE. (See page 526.) 




APPLES, DUCHESS STYLE. (See page 523-) 




i 



BLACKBERRY SPONGE. (See page 527.) 



r 1 




COMPOTE OF STUFFED PEARS WITH RICE. (See page sn.) 



x^'ti -t-'^, :^ i» n WK *'''T*---i«^^s'5«ar«sirtWR<T!73f>' 




PYRAMID OP PEACHES. (See page 527.) 



TYPHOID PEVEK S97 

light. Fats and sweets should be omitted, as also pork, veal, 
cheese, and rich desserts. If starchy food be eaten, it needs be 
thoroughly cooked and masticated, to insure complete salivary 
digestion. Thompson gives the following as a sample for advanced 
cases: Breakfast: bread and milk, or well-cooked oatmeal por- 
ridge or wheaten grits, without sugar. Dinner (not later than 
2 p. M.) : beef or mutton, bread, one or two green or succulent 
vegetables, such as spinach, stewed celery, stewed or raw 
tomatoes. Blanc-mange or custard (not sweetened) or a little rice 
pudding. Fresh fruit in season, as a peach or baked apple. Sup- 
per (6 p. M.) : a soft-cooked egg or a little cold fowl or game, stale 
bread, toast, zweiback, milk, stewed fruit (without sugar). 
Moderation and pimctuality in eating are first essentials. 

IN CHRONIC RHEUMATISM 

"The basis of the diet should be farinaceous food with a few 
fresh green vegetables. Fish, eggs, and fowl may be eaten; but 
dark meat is not desirable. Sweets and alcoholic beverages 
should be omitted from the menu, and all foods should be plainly 
cooked and eaten in moderation." 

SECOND PRINCIPLE 

The giving of food best adapted to relieve the digestive organs 
of uimecessary labor while maintaining nutrition. 

The old adage was "feed a cold and starve a fever." In place 
of the 3,500 calories in the average, normal dietary, a fever patient 
was reduced to a dietary supplying but 40c calories. It was not 
until 1882 that it was conclusively proven that fever patients 
could digest food just as well as o^er patients. Fever oxidizes 
proteid matter. A patient fed on milk or beef juice rich in the 
proteid principles save the tissues of his body by so much, though 
enough food cannot be ingested to replace all the proteid matter 
oxidized by the fever, hence the emaciation even in patients who 
are fed the most successfully. 

TYPHOID FEVER 

/ The seat of typhoid fever is in the small intestine, and all food 
that is given needs be such as is principally digested in the stomach 
and leaves but littie waste, thus relieving the intestine. If stomach 



5y3 PRACTICAL COOKING AND SERVING 

digestion in any fever can be carried on fairly weU, the loss of 
bodily weight is proportionately checked. In an ulcerated con- 
dition of the intestine liquid is less liable than solid food to cause 
disturbance. Milk or broths are largely digested in the stomach, 
and milk especially provides nutriment; these then are the foods 
indicated in fevers. Clear soups, consomme and thin gruels of 
rice, oatmeal or barley, from which all solid material has been care- 
fully removed by straining through a double fold of cheesecloth, 
may also be used. If these latter be used alone tissue waste will be 
noticeable in a few days at the most, as they do not contain 
sufficient protein to make up for the oxidation of proteid from the 
system; but with these combined with gelatine, white of egg and 
broths the patient will do well. To illustrate, note that a cup of 
bouillon supplies but sixteen calories of heat, while an egg furnishes 
seventy-five calories. 

THIRD PRINCIPLE 

FOODS POSSESSING CURATIVE VALUE FOR SPECIAL 
DISEASES 

Scurvy is less common than formerly. This is owing, in a 
measure, to increased facilities of preserving and transporting 
food, whereby a more varied dietary is secured. It should be 
remembered, however, that canned and dried foods have lost 
some of their life-giving properties. 

! When young children are afflicted with scur\'y, it is usually 
found that their dietary has been too closely confined to proprie- 
tary foods, sterilized irulk, evaporated cream, etc. 

Olive oil, butter, cream and bacon fat, indicated in tuberculosis, 
may be given in countless appetizing ways; the main thing to 
determine is in what forms these may be presented to be most 
readily assimilated by the individual patient. (Note the ways of 
giving butter in diabetes.) Butter becomes a liquid at the tem- 
perature of the body and may be absorbed almost at once on enter- 
ing the intestine. 

In cases of malaria and all catarrhal affections of the throat and 
alimentary canal, fresh pineapple juice acts as a germicide, though 
the cooked juice loses this power to a large extent, if not entirely. 

The first requisite in the diet of both the sick and the well is 
pure water; if disease be present, pure water, taken alone and in 
sufficient quantity, will do much toward washing it from the 



CURRANT AND TAMARIND WATER S99 

system. Except in special diseases, the proportion of carbohydrate 
and proteidfood in generalremains the same in sickness as in health, 
though after a wasting disease tissue-building rather than force- 
producing food would be indicated. This is the time also for 
gelatinoids or "proteid savers." Of this group gelatine in various 
forms is the most available. 

Diet for the very sick is similar to that of a young infant — 
i.e., milk or liquid food. To be easily digested, give milk in tea- 
spoonfuls, thus avoiding large curds. If diluted the curd will be 
softer and more easily broken up. Dilute with rice or barley 
water, or with water gruel. 

RECIPES 
BARLEY WATER. (USED ALONE OR IN DILUTING MILK) 

Put three teaspoonfuls of pearl barley over the fire in cold water; 
let heat to the boiling point and boil five minutes, then drain, rinse 
in cold water and add one quart of water; let come to the boiling 
point, then simmer imtil reduced to about three cups of liquid. 
Or cook one teaspoonful of barley flour, diluted with cold water 
to pour, in a pint of boiling water twenty minutes. This may be 
sweetened and flavored when required. 

RICE WATER (USED ALONE OR IN DILUTING MILK) 

Blanch two tablespoonfuls of rice; add a quart of water and let 
simmer very gently an hour; strain and use as directed. 

FLAXSEED TEA 

Blanch two tablespoonfuls of flaxseed; add one quart of boiling 
water and let boil one or two hours; strain and add lemon juice and 
sugar 

CURRANT AND TAMARIND WATER 

Currant jelly, dissolved in hot water, or tamarinds, steeped in 
hot water an hour and the liquid strained, either with or 
without the addition Of lemon juice, are often prized as bever- 
ages in the sick room. Lemon juice may be taken, when the 
oil from the rind would occasion flatulency or other unpleasant 
manifestations, y 



6oo PRACTICAL COOKING AND SERVING 

TOAST WATER OR BREAD COFFEE 

Put slices of bread, cut one fourth an inch thick, in a slack oven 
to dry until crisp and a golden brown. Break in pieces, add an 
equal measure of boiling water and let stand about an hour. Strain 
through a piece of cheesecloth. Serve hot or cold, with or without 
sugar and cream. 

IRISH MOSS LEMONADE 

Pick over one fourth cup of Irish moss and let stand half an 
hour or more in cold water to cover; drain the water from the moss, 
add a pint of fresh water and let cook twenty minutes in a double- 
boiler, then strain. To half a cup of the liquid add the juice 
of a lemon and sugar to taste. This drink may also be made of 
sea-moss farine. Sprinkle half a teaspoonful of farine into a quart 
of cold water and stir until the liquid thickens, and then, occasion- 
ally, for half an hour. 

OATMEAL GRUEL 

Stir a cup of oatmeal into two quarts of boiling salted water; 
cook three hours in a double-boiler, then strain through a piece of 
coarse cheesecloth. To half a cup of gruel add half a cup of thin 
cream and about one pint of boiling water; sugar may also be added. 
Prepare other gruels in the same way. 

WHEAT FLOUR AND CORNMEAL GRUEL 

Sift together two tablepoonfuls of flour, one tablespoonful of corn- 
meal and half a teaspoonful of salt; mix to a thirj batter with about 
one fourth cup of water or milk and stir into a quart of boiling 
water or scalded milk ; let cook in the water an hour and in the milk 
(over hot water) three hours. Serve hot, diluting with cream or 
rich milk. Gruel may also be made of arrowroot, farina, rice 
flour, barley flour or tapioca "exotique"; beaten yolk or white of 
egg may be added to any gruel just as it is removed from the fiie. 

BROILED BEEF JUICE 

Wipe with a damp cloth and remove all visible fat from a piece 
of steak, cut nearly an inch thick, from top of the round. Broil 
over a clear bed of coals three or four minutes, turning each ten 
secondsr Cut in pieces, about an inch and a half square, and gash 



BEEF TEA 6oi 

two or three times on each side. Press out the juice with a meat 
press or a hot lemon squeezer and turn into a hot cup. Sea- 
son with salt and serve hot. 

BEEF ESSENCE 

Cut beef, prepared as before, into small pieces; set these in a 
wide-mouthed bottle, securely corked, or in a fruit jar, closely 
covered,on a heavy fold of paper, or on a trivet in a kettle of water; 
heat the water gradually to the boiling point and let stand several 
hoiu-s, then pour ofE the essence. 

BEEF ESSENCE 

Chop fine one ounce of fresh beef, freed from fat, and pour over 
it one cup of soft water; add five or six drops of diluted hydrochloric 
acid and a few grains of common salt, stir it well, and leave for 
three hours in a cool place. Pass the liquid through a piece of 
cheesecloth, pressing the meat slightly and rinsing it with one 
fourth cup of cold water. Serve cold, a teaspoonful at a time; 
or heat in a closed vessel over hot water and then serve. 

BEEF TEA 

Chop fine half a pound of raw lean beef, cover with one pint 
of cold water and let stand in an earthen dish in a cool place for 
some hours. Cook over the fire, stirring constantly, until vapor 
begins to rise, then remove from the fire. Strain through a 
cheesecloth, pressing the liquid from the meat. Season with salt. 
The liquid should not be heated above i6o°, but between that and 
140° Fahr. The albimiinous juices do not coagulate and settle to the 
bottom of the cup, but are held in suspension throughout the 
liquid, as when cooked at a higher temperature. 

BEEF TEA 

Let a pound of fine-chopped beef stand an hour in an earthen 
vessel, covered with a pint of cold water; set into a dish of water 
over the fire, or in the oven, keeping the water in the outside 
dish at simmering temperature, one hour. The meat should not 
be exposed to a temperature of more than 170° Fahr. 



6o2 PRACTICAL COOKING AND SERVING 

BEEF TEA 

Cut two and a half pounds of beef from the top of the round into 
half-inch pieces; put into a white-lined saucepan, cover with 
pounded ice to the depth of an inch and a half and let stand, 
covered, about two hours. Put the saucepan over the fire, let 
heat nearly to the boiling point, then pass through a fine strainer. 

CHICKEN, VEAL OR MUTTON BROTH 

For chicken broth, add the crushed bones with the meat. For 
veal broth, use the fleshy part of the knuckle. Use a pint of water 
to a pound of meat, cook in a fruit jar or double-boUer about 
four hours, or let simmer directly over the fire two hours and add 
water, if needed, to secure a pint of liquid to a pound of meat. 
The nutritive value may be increased by the addition of pearl 
barley, rice, vermicelli or tapioca. The barley requires long 
cooking after being soaked over night. 

CHICKEN, MUTTON OR VEAL BROTH 

Chop fine a pound of chicken, mutton or veal free of fat; add a 
pint of water and let stand on ice two or three hours. Then cook 
three hours over a slow fire, strain, cool, remove fat, add salt and 
serve hot or cold. 

SCOTCH BEEF BROTH 

To a pint of strained and seasoned beef broth, from which all 
fat has been removed, add two teaspoonfuls of oatmeal and cook 
over hot water two hours. Strain and serve hot. The broth 
should have a delicate, jelly-like consistency. 

MUTTON BROTH 

(UNITED STATES ARMY HOSPITAL RECIPE FOR TWELVE 

MEN) 

Mutton, six pounds; salt, two ounces; rice, two ounces. 

Directions: Break the bones without separating the meat. 
Put it into twelve pints of cold water, with the salt and rice or 
barley. Simmer gently two hours and a half, carefully removing 
all the scum and fat. At the expiration of the time, if necessary. 



PEPTONIZED MILK 603 

add water to secure twelve pints of broth and let simmer fifteen 
minutes longer; add the salt toward the last of the cooking. 

CLAM AND CHICKEN FRAPPE. (BOSTON COOKING 
SCHOOL) 

Wash and scrub two quarts of clams. Put in a saucepan with 
half a cup of cold water, cover closely and let steam until the shells 
are well opened. Remove the clams from the shells and 
strain all the liquor through a cheesecloth. To one cup and 
two thirds of the liquor add two and one half cups of highly 
seasoned chicken stock and salt if needed. Cool and freeze to a 
mush. Serve in cups with whipped cream above. 

ALMOND MILK SOUP 

Blanch half a pound of sweet and ten bitter almonds; pound 
them in a mortar, moistening, from time to time, with milk, using 
in all one pint; when poimded to a smooth paste press through 
a piece of fine cheesecloth. Scald three cups of milk with two table- 
spoonfuls of sugar and half a teaspoonful of salt; stir in the almond 
milk and continue to stir until heated. Serve with croutons. 

LEMON, VINEGAR OR WINE WHEY 

Heat a pint of milk to the boiling point; add the juice of half a 
lemon freed from seeds; let the milk again come to the boiling 
point; then,withoutpressure,strain the whey through a cheesecloth. 
Half a cup of wine (sherry or a white wine), a tablespoonful of 
vinegar, or one fourth an ounce of cream-of-tartar, may take the 
place of the lemon juice. Whey has no value as an aliment, but 
it is useful as a beverage in febrile diseases, because it promotes 
perspiration and possesses diuretic properties. 

PEPTONIZED MILK (COLD PROCESS) 

Into a clean quart bottle or jar put five grains (one fourth 
teaspoonful) of extractum pancreatin, powdered, one fourth 
teaspoonful of soda, and half a cup of cold water; shake thoroughly, 
then add a pint of fresh, cool milk; shake again and put directly 
upon the ice. This milk may be used in any dish where milk is 
called for. After using milk from the bottle return the bottle 
9it once to the ice, or the peptonizing process will be continued. 



604 PRACTICAL COOKING AND SERVING 

PEPTONIZED MILK, NO. 3 

Prepare the milk as before; then place the bottle in water 
about 115° Fahr. (the hand can be held in waler of this tempera- 
ture without discomfort). Keep the bottle in the water ten 
minutes, then put at once on ice. The bottle should come in 
direct contact with the ice. In some preparations of pancreatin, 
as Fairchild's, the proper proportions of pancreatin and soda for a 
pint of milk come mixed together in a tube. 

The taste of milk, peptonized (i. e.,partialty digested) by the 
"cold process," is imchanged. MUk so treated is especially 
suitable for persons who ordinarily find milk indigestible. If the 
stomach is unable to retain properly and assimilate milk prepared 
by this process, the milk should be heated and the process of 
digestion carried on still further, as by the second method. After 
the milk has been properly peptonized by the second process, it 
may be scalded, and thus the process of peptonization is checked; 
in this case it may be kept simply in a cool place, ice being unneces- 
sary. 

SAVORY CUSTARD 

Beat the yolks of two or three eggs; add a few grains of salt, a 
dash of pepper, if permissible, and a cup of beef tea, or broth of 
any kind; strain into a buttered cup and poach in a dish of hot water 
until the custard is set. Serve hot or cold in the cup. 

EQQ AND QRUEL OR CAUDLE 

Beat an egg to a froth; have ready a cup of smooth and very hot 
gruel and stir this into the egg; add from one fourth to one half 
cup of sherry, a teaspoonful of sugar and grated nutmeg one or 
all as is desired. 

CHICKEN CUSTARD 

Fill a buttered custard cup lightly with stale bread crumbs 
(centre of loaf) and fine-chopped breast of chicken. Beat a whole 
egg, or the yolks of two; add a few grains of celery salt and half 
a cup or more of milk Poach as any custard. Serve hot 

BEEF TEA CUSTARD 

Beat the yolks of three eggs slightly; add a few grains of salt and, 
very gradually, a cup of hot beef tea; cook in a double-boiler, 



RAW BEEF SANDWICHES 605 

stirring constantly until the mixture thickens; then pass through 
a fine sieve. Serve hot or cold in a custard cup. If permissible 
the beef tea may be flavored with celery or parsley. 

SCUFFLED EQQ 

This dish when properly prepared is a dehcate, dainty morsel. 
An egg so cooked is often more easily digested than when poached 
au natur el, inasmuch as the air incorporated into the white separates 
the cells of albumen and enables the digestive fluids to penetrate 
the mass without hindrance. (For recipe, see "Poached Egg 
Hygienic Fashion. ") An egg thus cooked, and served in a tumbler, 
presents an attractive appearance most desirable in the sick room. 
The lower part of a small double-boiler, in which a trivet is set, 
affords a practical means of cooking. In the absence of a trivet 
one may be improvised by driving a nail repeatedly through the 
cover of a poimd size baking-powder box. Thus the water may pass 
beneath the glass. Set the glass in place, while the water is luke- 
warm, and, when the white begins to expand with the heat and rise, 
drop in the yolk; both are cooked, at least, as soon as the water 
boils. The less the egg is cooked the more easily it will be digested. 

EQG-NOQQ 

Beat the yolk of an egg; add one or two tablespoonfuls of sugar 
and, when nuxed with the egg, a tablespoonful of sherry or brandy; 
mix again, then add, gradually, a cup of milk, and, lastly, fold in 
the white of the egg beaten stiff. 

EQQ AND WINE 

Beat an egg to a froth ; add one or two tablespoonfuls of sugar and 
beat again. Heat half a cup of cold water and one fourth cup 
of sherry wine xmtil vapor rises, then pour over the egg and sugar, 
stirring constantly. Cook over hot water until slightly thickened. 
Serve in a glass, hot or cold. 

RAW BEEP SANDWICHES 

Cut stale bread into slices one fourth an inch thick; put two 
slices together, remove the crusts and cut into such shape as 
desired. Keep the pairs together, spread these with butter, then 



6o6 PRACTICAL COOKING AND SERVING 

with the pulp of meat, scraped from the fibre and seasoned with 
salt, and press the pairs together. In scraping the beef, scrape the 
pulp from one side and then turn and scrape the pulp from the 
fibres on the other side. 

BROILED RAW BEEF CAKES 

Season raw beef pulp, prepared as above, with salt and shape 
into small flat cakes of uniform thickness throughout. Broil in a 
well-oiled oyster broiler about four minutes, turning every ten 
seconds. Season with salt and spread with butter. 

TENDERLOIN STEAK WITH BEEF JUICE 

Have a piece of steak cut an inch and a half thick from the 
middle of the tenderloin lying under the rump. This is tender 
meat, but lacking in juiciness and flavor. Put into a weU-oiled 
broiler with nearly half a pound of round steak. Broil in the usual 
manner about ten minutes; place the tenderloin on a hot plate, 
dust lightly with salt and, with a hot lemon squeezer or meat 
press, express the juice from the round steak over it. Garnish 
with cress or parsley and serve at once. 

FILLETS OF CHICKEN IN ASPIC JELLY 

Remove the fillets from the breast of a yoimg and tender chicken 
(see page 154). After the tendon is removed from the small 
fillets and all are of the same thickness, wrap the fillets securely 
in pieces of well-buttered writing paper, and broil over a moderate 
fire, turning very often, to avoid burning the paper. Cool under 
a weight and mould in aspic jelly (see page 251). 

BROILED SQUABS 

See that the squabs are carefully dressed and singed (split them 
down the backbone and dress as a chicken for broiling), wipe care- 
fully and broil in a well-oiled double-broiler; season lightly with 
salt, also pepper and butter if agreeable. Serve on a slice of toast. 
Garnish with a slice or two of orange and a stem of watercress. 

SEA MOSS FARINE BLANCMANGE 

I tablespoonful of sea moss farine. f^ cup of sugar. 

I quart of milk. The juice of a lemon. 



SPONGE RUSKS 607 

Stir the farine into the milk and sugar; let heat gradually (over 
hot water), stirring meanwhile. Wien the mixture thickens 
slightly, discontinue stirring, except occasionally, and let cook 
about half an hour. Add the lemon juice or not, as desired. 
Turn into small moulds. Serve cold with boiled custard, currant 
Jelly, or cream and sugar. 

EGG JUNKET, WHIPPED CREAM 

Separate the whites from the yolks of two eggs, beat the whites 
until dry and the yolks until thick; gradually add the yolks to the 
whites, beating constantly. Heat one pint of milk until lukewarm, 
about 98° Fahr., dissolve in this one fourth cup of sugar, add 
half a teaspoonful of vanilla extract and pour over the beaten eggs; 
stir in a teaspoonful of liquid rennet, or half a junket tablet, dis- 
solved in two teaspoonfuls of cold water, and turn into sherbet 
glasses. Let stand in a warm place about half an hour or until 
firm, then chill. Serve with a tablespoonful of whipped cream, 
sweetened and flavored, on the top of each glass. 

PLAIN JUNKET WITH WINE 

Heat a pint of rich milk to 100° Fahr., and stir in half a junket 
tablet, crushed and dissolved in half a tablespoonful of cold water, 
one third cup, or less, of sugar and two tablespoonfuls of brandy, 
or four of sherry or Madeira; turn into glasses and let stand un- 
disturbed until set. Serve thoroughly chilled. When fat is called 
for, add half a cup of cream to a pint of milk and proceeed as before. 

SPONGE RUSKS 

Bake sponge cake mixture in a pan of such size as to secure a 
sheet of cake half an inch thick when baked. When the cake is 
cold, cut into strips three inches wide, and these into short strips 
about an inch wide. Toast the latter or brown in the oven upon 
one side, then toast or brown on the other side. 

Fruit jellies, Bavarian creams, custards, sherbets and cream ices 
are all useful (under supervision) in the dietary of the sick and 
convalescent. Directions for the preparation of these dishes, as 
well as of clear soups, cream soups, toast, etc., which are also 
desirable, will be found under the headings of the various chapters. 
In cases of acute disease, or in the early stages of recovery from 



6o8 PRACTICAL COOKING AND SERVING 

such diseases, fat is often not easily assimilated, and hence no 
droplet of fat should be left floating upon a cup of broth. When 
butter is allowed upon toast, vegetables, or broiled meat, external 
heat should not be applied, the heat in the article should be suffi- 
cient to melt the butter. Eggs poached in cream or consomme, with 
or without toast, are usually relished in the sick room. Ice-cold 
foods, as cream ice, often prove most acceptable to an invalid 
suffering from fever or inflammation, when no other form of 
nourishment can be tolerated. At such times flavoring extracts, 
or zests of lemon or orange, should not be used; nor should the 
mixture be made as sweet as in the recipes given under ices. Pure 
cream, not too heavy, with simply from half to three fourths cup 
of sugar to the quart, produces a good cream. A plain boiled 
custard made of the yolks of three eggs and two tablespoonfuls 
(always level) of sugar to a pint of milk is also good. In either 
case a cup of whipped cream, beaten into the frozen mixture, adds 
lightness and richness, when the latter is desirable. This is one 
of the first articles of food prescribed by physicians to patients 
who are recovering from severe attacks of cholera morbus. Junket 
ice cream is particularly wholesome. 

CALF'S FOOT JELLY 

I calf's foot. I cup of sugar. 

li quarts of cold water. 3 whites of eggs with shells. 

i cup of sherry wine. J cup of cold water. 

Juice of one lemon. 

Scald and clean the foot thoroughly. Split and cut it into 
several pieces; add the cold water and heat slowly to the boiling 
pomt, skim and let simmer about five hours, strain and let stand 
until cold. Remove all fat. Crush the shells of the eggs and beat 
the whites slightly; add the water, lemon juice, about a teaspoonful 
of salt (to a quart) and the sugar and stir the whole into the jellied 
liquid. Stir constantly while heating to the boiling point; let 
boil one minute, then "let stand to settle. Have ready a bowl, a 
colander in the bowl, holding a napkin wrung out of hot water, and 
a sieve on the napkin. Turn the hot mixture into the sieve, lift 
this with the egg shells and let the hot mixture filter through the 
napkin into the bowl. Strain a second time if necessary. When 
cool add the wine and strain into cups or moulds. 



PART III 

CHAPTER I 
Marketing, Care of Food and Cooking Utensils 

There are two ways of marketing in vogue, both of which have 
ardent advocates. By the one, and this is largely practised by the 
women of Mexico and France, the housekeeper buys just what is 
needed for the day, no more, no less, and when night comes her 
store room is as bare as that of the historic Mother Hubbard 
on a certain occasion. The other might be called the American 
way, though it follows it pretty closely the fashion set by our 
English cousins. A housekeeper, who believes in this way of 
marketing, buys her' provisions almost at wholesale — that is, 
sugar and flour by the barrel, butter by the firkin, and canned 
goods by the dozen. 

The Mexican woman brings home her food supplies, of all kinds 
for the day, in a small gourd cup holding less than a quart. The 
French woman buys the wings and perhaps the second joints of a 
fowl. The English or American woman, of the same class, would 
be imwilling to ask for less than a pair of fowl, and very likely 
would add a ham or a pickled tongue. Without doubt, the former 
is the more economical method of procedure; still there is a satis- 
faction in the consciousness that one's larder is supplied for an 
emergency, which will compensate for the extra outlay, if that 
outlay be conmensurate with one's income. But the purchase of 
supplies for a family, if it be wisely done, whether the family be 
large or small, is no very simple matter. It cannot be prescribed 
for every class and condition of housewives. But, whether one 
buy by wholesale or after the French fashion, serve yourself, if 
you would be well served. Go in person and see what you purchase. 

SUPPLIES THAT MAY BE BOUGHT IN QUANTITY 

White flour may be bought by the barrel, if one has a cool, dry 
place for its storage. The barrel should not rest directly upon the 

609 



6io PRACTICAL COOKING AND SERVING 

floor, but be raised from it by strong supports, so that there may 
be a circulation of air below as well as upon the sides and top. 
Entire wheat flour does not keep well and needs be bought a little 
at a time. Pototoes keep well and are lower in price, before they 
have been stored. With refrigerator and ice, butter and meats can 
be well taken care of and, besides, the meat be much improved by 
the keeping. A loin of beef or a side of mutton is a profitable in- 
vestment in the average family. Serve the fore quarter of mutton, 
"boiled" or steamed, first, as meat thus cooked needs be fresher 
than when it is roasted. The leg may be kept till the last. If one 
has no facilities for taking care of meat, she can, sometimes, pur- 
chase the side or loin of the dealer, and he will keep it, cutting and 
sending as ordered; but one probably will pay extra for such atten- 
tion. At some markets, when a loin of beef is purchased, the dealer 
will remove the flank. If this part can be utilized the rule of 
economy is subserved. The flank may be made into Hamburg 
steak or cannelon of beef, or it may be kept a few days and then 
salted, thus being preserved for future use. 

The fillet spoils very quickly and should be served first. It may 
be roasted, braised, or cut in slices and broiled. Being deficient 
in flavor, it is usually larded; if braised the flavor of vegetables is 
added, and, if broiled, it is quite often served with a mushroom 
sauce. Cut the rest of the loin into steaks and roasts. Do not 
roast meat the day it comes from the market, imless you are sure 
that it has been kept long enough to be tender. Do not waste 
needful force in trying to digest tough roasts. One better 
purchase less expensive meat, chop in the meat chopper, fashion 
into compact roll and then roast en masse. 

BACON 

A crisp, translucent curl of bacon gives relish to many a dish; 
buy only the best; tough bacon, unless the fat cooked from it be 
used in basting roasts, is a total loss. In many sections of the 
country, particularly in Canada, sides of tender, mild-cured bacon 
may be procured. Every slice of the "Deerfoot Farm" bacon, 
put up in one and two pound boxes, may be depended upon as 
being tender and of good quality. 

MILK 

Though milk does not sour as quickly in winter as during the 
hot weather, it should receive just as much care. Whene\'er it is 



VEGETABLES AND FRUIT ALL THE YEAR 6ti 

possible, keep milk in a separate compartment of the refrigerator; 
never leave it uncovered. There is nothing gained by paying 
extra for milk of assured cleanliness, or that has been pasteurized, 
if it be left standing uncovered. Nor should nulk or any food 
supply, even if cooked, be left in the hot kitchen an hour or two. 
And especially no cooked food should be left uncovered. To the 
strong and robust such food may not occasion sickness, but a 
delicate child or an invalid will scarcely escape ill results from 
partaking of the same, and it is no longer palatable to any one. 

FOOD IN SEASON 

As a rule, when food is most cheap and plentiful, it is at its 
best; out of season, it is expensive and lacking in flavor and quality. 
In the early spring the provident housekeeper will make use, to a 
great extent, of vegetables and fruits which are seasonable through- 
out the year, together with such dried and canned articles as she 
has found most wholesome and palatable, ever bearing in mind 
how "all things come to him who will but wait." The following 
table shows when certain vegetables, fish and game are seasonable. 

FISH IN MARKET ALL THE YEAR 

Cod, halibut, haddock, flounder, hard clams, hard crabs, sea 
bass, and lobsters (the latter are best from December to April). 

VEGETABLES AND FRUIT ALL THE YEAR 

Artichokes (imported), beets (new in April), cabbage (new in 
August), carrots (new in May), cauliflower (new in August, in 
New England and Middle West), mushrooms (cultivated), onions 
(home grown, July to June, Bermuda, from January 15th to July 
15th); peppers (January to June, South), potatoes (South, April; 
Long Island, July ist; Bermuda, January isth to July), sweet 
(August to May), lettuce (hotbeds) garden (in June), water-cress, 
spinach, tomatoes (March ist. South; July to October, garden; 
November to March, hothouse), turnips (new from June to Sep- 
tember), bananas, cocoanuts, lemons, oranges (Florida, November 
to March, best November and February), from Italy and Sicily, 
shipped largely in December and January. 



6i2 PRACTICAL COOKING AND SERVING 

FISH IN SEASON 

Lake bass, from June to January; bluefish, May to November; 
bonito, June to November; mackerel, AprU to October; Spanisk 
mackerel, April isth to October isth; perch, September to 
June; pickerel, June to January; pompano, May to August, 
and November 15th to Jan, ist; red snapper, October to April; 
salmon, Kennebec, June to October; Oregon, October to June; 
shad and roe; Charleston, January, Norfolk (Va.), February, 
New York, April ist, Boston, April 30th; smelts, August isth to 
April; brook trout, April to September; whitebait. May to April; 
oysters, September to May; scallops, September to April; shrimps, 
March 15th to June ist, and September isth to October isth. 

VEGETABLES IN SEASON 

Jerusalem artichokes, October ist to May ist; asparagus, hot- 
house, January to February isth; garden, May to July; string 
beans, garden, June to October; South and hothouse, all the year; 
Lima beans, August to October; dried, all the year; Brussels 
sprouts, November 15th to March isth; corn, July to September; 
cranberries, October to May; cucumbers, garden, July to October; 
hothouse, all the year; oyster plant and parsnips, August to 
June; peas, South, January to July; Long Island, July to Novem- 
ber; pumpkins, September to February; radishes, May to Novem- 
ber, hothouse, all the year; rhubarb, February to July, garden, 
April; celery, August to April; chicory, Jvdy to April; dandelion, 
hothouse, December to Jime; sununer squash, July to October; 
winter squash, September to AprD. 

FRUIT IN SEASON 

Apples, August to May, all the year, cold storage; apricots, July 
to August isth; barberries, October to November isth; blackber- 
ries, July to August isth; cherries. May to July isth; chestnuts, 
October to March; cturants, July to August isth; figs, new crop 
October, all the year except midsummer; gooseberries, July; 
grapes, July to August; grapefruit, October to Jxily; huckleberries, 
June isth to September; melons, July to October; peaches, July to 
October; pears, July to March; plums, July to October; quinces, 
September to December; raspberries, June to September; straw- 
berries, garden, April to August, hothouse, January to M-vch. 




ORANGE SHERBET IN ORANGE SKINS. 
Garnish of whipped cream. (See page 568.) 




STRAWBERRY 'CHARLOTTE GLACE. (S.-e page 5^5-) 




MOULDS FOR FROZEN DESSERTS. 

Bombe, melon and Drick moulds. 
Individual basket mould and strawberry moulds. 



Sf/f- 




RASPBERRIES WITH RICE CROQUETTES. (See page 528.) 




PEACH AND RICE MERINGUE. (See page 528.) 




CHERRIES WITH CRUSTS- (See page 529.) 



COOKING APPLIANCES AND CARE OF SAME 6ii 
GAME 

Duck, ofall kinds, September to May; reed birds, September to 
January; rice birds, September to April; grouse, partridge and 
woodcock, August isth to February ist; pheasants, October to 
February; rabbits, November to January; squabs, September to 
January; squirrel, August to February; wUd turkey, November 
to May; quail, stall fed, all the year, wUd, November to February; 
plovers and snipe, September to January. 

POULTRY, ETC. 

Beef, all the year, best, November to March; mutton, all the year, 
best, November to April; veal, all the year, best April and May; 
lamb, house, December 25th to July, yearling, best, August to 
November; pork, best, October to March; turkey, and fowl, best, 
October to March; chickens to broD, August, incubator, all the 
year; pigeons and squabs, stall fed, all the year; ducklings. May to 
December; domestic duck and geese, September to May. 

COOKING APPLIANCES AND CARE OF SAME 

To prepare three meals a day in a family of five or sis members 
requires the constant attendance in the kitchen of at least one 
person, and often several people are occupied there. Even in a 
small family the kitchen is a much used room. Hence in the kitchen 
plenty of light and good ventilation are of utmost importance. 
The health of the family depends both directly and indirectly 
upon these conditions. That food absorbs odors and germs, not 
only in storage but also while cooking and cooling after cooking, 
should not be ignored. Then, first of all, let us have a light, 
roomy and well-ventilated kitchen. 

In every kitchen furnished with a coal range there should be 
some means of quick cooking; this will be foimd economical in point 
of money and time. Indeed, where the coal range is not needed 
for heating as well as cooking, a range that affords quicker service 
is demanded. At the present time, in all large towns and cities, 
the gas range is available; this in use should be provided with a 
hood or flue connected with the chimney, to remove products of 
combustion. Experience suggests many devices in the use of a 
gas range, and there are appliances by which the quantity of gas 
consumed may be diminished. 



6i4 PRACTICAL COOKING AND SERVING 

The tile-lined ovens used in foreign lands are washed after the 
cooking of each article, to insiure against the absorption of flavor by 
the next dish that is to occupy the oven, a suggestion that is 
worthy of notice. In planning a kitchen, a place for the refrigera- 
tor should be selected with care; its drain pipe ought not to be con- 
nected directly with the sewer. If possible, let the compartment 
for ice open on a piazza or, at least, out of doors. The refrigerator 
should be easy of access to the cook, for fine cooking demands 
many trips between the cooking table and ice receptacle. 

CARE OF REFRIGERATOR 

Three things are essential to the proper care and use of a refriger- 
ator; cleaning the waste pipes, instant removal of anything spilled, 
and a full supply of ice. If the compartments in which food is kept 
be wiped out carefully once a week, no crumbs, drips of luquid, or 
particles of food left to accumulate meanwhile, these will need no 
other attention. Once a week let the ice supply run low, then 
remove the ice, wash the floor under the rack upon which the ice 
rests, take out trap and removable drain pipe and, with a cloth 
fastened to a rod or wire, clean out these with a strong solution of 
sal-soda. Pour the same down the remainder of the waste pipe, 
making sure that the pipe is cleaned as far down as it can be 
reached. Keep the ice compartment filled with ice. A large body 
of ice keeps better than a small one, and insures better circulation 
of air. Keep the doors closed. Set milk in closed bottles or in a 
compartment by itself. 

COOKINQ UTENSILS 

It is a positive pleasure to the workman in any calling to own 
and use good and appropriate tools. The truly good cook takes 
scrupulous care of her cooking utensils, and comes to have a real 
fondness for certain dishes. The supply of utensils should, however, 
only equal the demand, for all the good things in this world are 
of value to us only in so far as we can make a valid use of them. 

The heavy ironware and the more expensive copper utensils, 
recipients of endless polish, are now improved upon, save, perhaps, 
in point of durability and for some special uses. There is agate 
ware, and a light blue ware, white inside (imported), also a light- 
weight steel ware and aluminoid ware. These afford ample variety 
{or choice, and, with careful usage, the vessels may be kept in 



COOKING UTENSILS 615 

good condition for years. All may be washed, inside and out, 
with soapy water, rinsed in boiling water and carefully dried with 
a towel. If more drying be required, let stand on the shelf of the 
range. The agate and German wares "chip " badly under strong, 
dry heat. Fill all cooking dishes with water immediately after 
use. Sapolio, "kitchen and hand" soap and sal-soda will remove 
stains that adhere — except in the case of aluminoid ware. Alkalies 
like baking soda and sal-soda tarnish aluminoid. Also the highly 
polished exterior of aluminoid utensils scratches easily, and for 
repolishing these a paste made of sifted whiting and soapy water 
is more satisfactory. Rub over the surfaces with the paste, let 
dry, then polish with a clean, soft cloth. 

Old linty dishcloths and coffee grounds, in conjunction with 
grease, occasion most of the calls for the plumber as far as the 
kitchen sink is concerned, and are a source to him of no incon- 
siderable revenue yearly. A fine sieve should first receive all waste 
water in its passage through the sink. New cloth should always 
be taken for dishcloths and, as soon as signs of wear appear, these 
may be utilized in wiping out greasy dishes, then in kindling the 
fire. Add dissolved soap or sal-soda (ammonia or caustic soda 
is better because stronger) to greasy water; these form emulsions 
(soaps) with the fats which pass through the pipes. Three or 
four times a week flush the drain with a boiling solution of sal- 
soda, using half a cup of sal-soda to three quarts of water. 

Many housekeepers seem to think that, if the tableware be 
carefully washed, other dishes will do without much attention. 
This is an extremely erroneous idea. Every dish in which food 
is to be placed should receive scrupulous attention. Smooth clean 
dishes are always a chief requisite in good cooking, and in sauce- 
making they are absolutely a sine qua non. A sauce is used to 
give richness and flavor to that which is without these desirable 
elements. If the dish be not sweet and clean, or if it be rough, 
so that the sauce burns, or "catches on," as we say, at any point, 
those are the flavors carried by the sauce; for butter absorbs odors 
and flavors most persistently. Nor will any amount of outside 
flavor, that may be added, cover up those that have been, as it 
were, burned into the foundation of the sauce. No particle of 
matter remains long unchanged. Bacteria are ever at work, and 
if we do not wish to introduce undesirable elements into bread, 
cake, etc., dishes with painstaking care must be made ready to re- 
ceive the ingredients that enter into the composition of these 
dishes. 



CHAPTER n 
Office of Food in the Body 

"Old men bear want of food best; then those that are adults; youths bear it 
least, most especially children, and of them the most lively are the least capa- 
ble of enduring it." — Hippoceates. 

Foods or food principles (Chapter I, Part I) supply us with 
means to carry on the work of the body — i. e., the different proc- 
esses incident to the existence of a living being and the work 
carried on outside of the body, or "productive work." 

It is estimated that about one third of the energy contained in 
the food we assimilate can be utilized m productive work, the other 
two thirds are needed internally in carrying on the processes of life. 
The several food principles serve the body in different ways. Take 
the two great principles, protein and carbohydrate; study their 
composition and the reason for this is obvious. All food contains 
carbon; oxygen taken in through the lungs unites with carbon, a 
chemical change results, heat and energy are produced, and carbon 
dioxide, a waste product, is formed. Without a supply of oxygen 
the carbon could not be burned and the life's process would cease. 
Carbon, slowly oxidized in the body, gives off just as much heat 
and supplies just as much force as in case it were burned outside 
the body. 

Of the carbohydrates, fats and oils (often called hydrocarbons) 
have greater fuel value than starch. The chemical elements are 
the same in all, but in starch the proportions are six — or a 
multiple of six — parts of carbon to hydrogen and oxygen in the 
proportions found in water, viz., two parts hydrogen to one of 
oxygen. In fats and oils, the relative proportion of the oxygen 
is much smaller, and the combustion of these calls for a greater 
quantity of oxygen from the air and, in consequence, a greater 
amount of heat and muscular power is evolved. The body also 
changes the carbohydrates of food into fat. This fat and that 
stored directly from the fat in food are kept in the body as a re- 
serve supply of fuel for use in times of need. 

6i6 



OrnCE OF FOOD IN THE BODY 617 

The proteids also contain carbon, oxygen and hydrogen, but they 
contain as well an element not found in the carbohydrates, nitrogen. 
Oxygen from the air unites with the nitrogen in the food to form 
compounds which build and repair bodily tissues. This, then, 
is the primal office of the proteids, and it cannot be relegated to 
foods from the group, carbohydrates. The gelatinoids are useful 
in promoting nutrition and save the waste of the real tissue builders. 
They do not, however, build tissue. Broth of meat to which nothing 
is added is not a tissue builder. 

Of course, if the best fuel be not provided, the system can utilize 
proteid to produce heat and energy, but it is not the part of wisdom 
or economy to call upon the more expensive foods, which contain 
this element, to do the work that may be quite as satisfactorily 
done by the cheaper carbohydrates; for health itself depends 
upon securing the right proportions of these principles. 

Not all of the food taken into the system is made use of and 
assimilated. A part passes away as waste matter. The kidneys 
are the organs whose office is to eliminate this waste from nitroge- 
nous or proteid foods, and if these be overtaxed disorders of serious 
nature follow. The evil results of a diet deficient in proteid, 
during the period of growth, are often even more marked. As a 
rule, the ridi are in poor health because food rich in this principle 
is ingested too freely, while the children of the middle classes and 
the poor are warped and stunted mentally and physically for lack 
of material suitable to proper growth. An adult can get along 
very well if a meal once in a while does not come up in all respects 
to the required standard. He has fat stored in tissues which can 
be called upon in time of need and burned or oxidized in place of 
food. Not so in the case of a yoimg and growing child. Too 
often lean and tall, he has little reserve force, and needs the full 
complement of food at each of his three or four meals per day. 
When he reaches the age of about twelve or thirteen, the factor 
of flavor comes in; and too much care cannot be exercised in select- 
ing palatable dishes. 

Let us learn to secure flavor in the finished dish, not by adding 
condiments, spices and the like, but by so cooking our food that 
the natural flavors are brought out and intensified, not lost. Many 
fruits and vegetables aboimd in flavors that are enthely lost if they 
be subjected to careless cookery. The high flavor of expensive boiled 
and roasted meats are much relished, and when cheaper meats are 
supplied, vegetables or fruits can be carefully employed to make up 
for the absence of the appetizing flavor found in caramelized meats. 



6i8 



PRACTICAL COOKING AND SERVING 



OFFICE OF FOOD PRINCIPLES OR NUTRIENTS IN THE 

BODY 



Protein, as white (albumen) 

of eggs, curd (casein) of j 

milk, lean meat, gluten! ^ 

. , , . J > Forms tissue, 

of wheat and grams and/ 

other vegetable proteid \ 

(formerly called legumen) •'^ 
Fats, as fat of meat, but-"| 

ter, olive oil and other t Are stored in body 

vegetable oils. ' ^^ '^*- 

Carbohydrates, as sugar, 1 Are transformed 



All act as fuel, yielding 
energy in the form 
of heat and mus- 
cular power. 



starch, etc. 

Mineral matters, as phos- 
phates of lime, soda, etc. 



into fat. 
Share in forming 
bone, assist in 
digestion. 



The most common proteids are white of eggs, lean meat, the 
casein of milk, the gluten of wheat, and the proteid of vegetables 
(found in peas, beans, and lentils). The protein of vegetables is 
less easily and completely digested than that of meat, and though 
most useful it is not quite so valuable as the more easily assimilated 
animal food. Chloride of sodium (common salt) and lime, both 
important elements in the formation of teeth and bone, and in 
maintenance of the integrity of the system, are largely found in 
fresh frtiits, vegetables and grains. Often the supply of fresh fruit 
and vegetables is limited during the winter season, and in the 
spring the system calls for elements that have been wanting. True 
common salt has been supplied in the food, and lime may have 
been given, but these crude substances are not identical with the 
lime and salt contained in fruit, vegetables and grains. Here these 
substances have been orgainzed and fitted for appropriation by 
animal life, while in an unorganized state they tend to disturb 
digestion. The evidence is strong that common salt, in excess, may 
cause kidney disorders, leading even to Bright's disease. In 
making out dietaries the first thing to determine is the part which 
a food must perform for the individuals in question. Are they 
building or only repairing tissue? Are they active or sluggish ? 
Is the temperature in which they live warm or cold? The fore- 
going summary of this chapter is largely adapted from a schedule 
by Professor Atwater. 



CHAPTER III 
Referring to a WelUBalanced Menu or Dietary 

"A meal — what is it? Just enough of food to renovate and well refresh 
the frame, so that, with spirits lightened and with strength renewed, we turn 
with willingness to work again." 

In the chapter on Hospitality, reference is made to what may 
be called, for want of a better term, menus of inheritance, but in 
these later days frequent mention is made of a "weU-balanced 
menu," and a word on this subject may not be amiss. The remark is 
common that the importance of diet to health is just now beginning 
to receive attention, but this is not strictly true. The old philos- 
ophers wrote on this subject and understood its import, but the 
condition of the times did not lead them to treat the matter after 
the scientific spirit of these later days. Whatever of accurate 
knowledge we possess of this and kindred subjects is due primarily 
to the investigations of the Germans. The German Government, 
by generous expenditure of money, made it possible for some of 
the brightest minds in the land to devote themselves to the task, 
and the universities provided a place for carrying out the necessary 
experiments. Then our own Government took up the matter, and, 
for the past fifteen years, Professor Atwater and his colleagues 
have been working along similar lines of effort and in the same 
scientific spirit. But neither the old philosophers, the scientific 
Germans, nor our own countrymen have ever been able to formu- 
late a dietary that can be said to be " constant." For feeding is an 
individual matter; and while dietaries worked out in the laboratory 
are helpful in a general way, each housekeeper must of necessity 
work out these problems independently, since the needs of no two 
families, of no two individuals, even, in the same family, are exactly 
alike. Indeed, the proper dietary for one individual is a "variable 
equation," for each day he is a day older. 

And, besides, the individual housekeeper has neither the kind 
of training, the proper appliances, nor the requisite time to enter 
into investigation. Availing herself, however, of the figures and 

619 



6aQ PRACTICAL COOEING ANl> SERVING 

deductions of trained scientists, she may formulate dietaries for 
her family that shall, in the quantity and relative proportion of the 
different food principles, approximate very nearly to what may be 
called the standard or laboratory requirements. The desire to do 
this, seconded by an attempt, is a long step in the right direction. 
In studying formulas that have been worked out in the laboratory 
for different classes and ages of individuals, we need keep in mind 
two things: (ist) that these dietaries do not take into considera- 
tion personal idiosyncrasies of digestion, assimilation, and excre- 
tion; (and) that the food value of the same nutrients varies, and 
that its conservation depends in large measure upon the skill of 
the cook. 

MEASURE OF NUTRITIVE VALUE 

The nutritive value of any given food stuff is measured by the 
amoimt of heat liberated during its oxidation into those chemical 
combinations in which it is to leave the organism. 

The unit of measure is the calorie, which is equivalent to the 
amount of heat necessary to raise one kilogram of water one degree 
centigrade, or what is nearly the same thing,ione pound of water 40° 
Fahr. 

_ Taking our common food materials as they are used in ordinary 
diet, the following general estimate has been made of the energy 
furnished to the body by one gram, or one poimd, of each of the 
classes of nutrients. 

Protein, fuel value, 4 calories per gram, or 1,820 calories per pound. 
Fats, fuel value, 8.9 calories per gram, or 4,040 calories per pound. 
Carbohydrates, fuel values, 4 calories per gram, or 1,820 calories per 
pound. (Atwater.) 

It vrill be seen that the fuel value, or capacity for yielding heat 
and mechanical power, of a pound of protein of lean meat, or 
albumen of egg, is just about equivalent to a pound of starch, or 
sugar (carbohydrate), and a little over two pounds of either would 
be_ required to equal a poxmd of the fat of meat or butter. It is 
evident, then, that the fuel value of food depends upon the amount 
of actual nutrients, and especially upon the amount of fat, it 
contains. 

Atwater estimates "that an average man, at moderately active 
labor, like a carpenter or mason, should have about 11 5 grams, or 
0.25 pound, of available protein and sufficient fuel ingredients, in 




FRUIT CUP. (See page s«9.) 



■ 


. - fea 


~ 1 

4^ 


,i%**^o 


^ 


HBHI^^ 


», 



STRAWBERRY BOMBE GLACE. 
Moulded in melon mould. (See page 571.J 




BAKED ALASKA 




COUPE THAIS 



MEASU&E OF mjTRITlVE VALtJE fiet 

addition, to make the fuel value of the whole (day's) diet 3.400 
calories; while a man at sedentary employment would be well 
nourished with 92 grams or 0.20 pound of available protein and 
enough fats and carbohydrates, in addition, to jrield 2,700 calories 
of energy. 

Ib calculating dietaries it is considered that the food of a woman, 
or a boy from fourteen to sixteen years of age inclusive, should 
provide 0.8 the fuel value of a man's food at moderate muscu- 
lar labor; a girl fourteen to sixteen years of age requires 0.7, 
a child ten or thirteen, 0.6, a child six to nine, 0.5, a chLd two to 
five, 0.4, respectively, in fuel value of the food of a man at moderate 
muscular labor. 

In making dietary studies for a week or more, begin with a 
certain quantity of food products, the weight of which is known, 
add to this the weight of all articles purchased during the period, 
then, when the "study" is completed, deduct the weight of all 
articles remaining on hand. The difference gives the weight of 
the articles used. Deduct from each article the weight of refuse 
left upon the plates, and the amounts actually consumed will be 
known. Then by the use of the tables showing the composition 
of the several articles, the fuel value of the protein, fat and car- 
bohydrate in each article may be determined. A simple example 
in addition will give the fuel value of each nutrient (food principle) 
for the week. These figures will demonstrate whether the week's 
food has been "properly balanced" and show wherein the de- 
ficiency or excess lies. 

In actual practice this work may be shortened and simplified, 
as the tables given at the head of the respective chapters in this 
book give the fuel value of a pound of each foodstuff, and this 
quantity multiplied by the number of pounds consumed gives the 
total fuel value of both protein and carbohydrate. Then, when 
the quantity of protein has been determined, the solution is simple. 
To illustrate, menus have been worked out below for a family of 
six for one day. The manner of determining the amount of 
protein and fuel value of one or two articles will suffice for all. 

In the breakfast menu, boiled eggs are given; eight eggs weigh 
one pound; by consulting the chapter on eggs, it will be foimd that 
13-1% of a pound of eggs is protein, that is, the decimal .131 
rwreseats the protein in Uie eggs. The fuel value is given as 635 
calories. 

Take mashed potatoes in the dinner menu (see table in chapter 
on Vegetables), the protein in potatoes is given at 2..s% and the 



622 PRACTICAL COOKING AND SERVING 

fuel value as 440 calories per pound respectively. Thirty-seven 
thousandths and 660 represent the value of the protein and the 
fuel value of a pound and a half of potatoes. The protein in butter 
is too small in quantity to consider, the high percentage of the 
fat gives a fuel value of 3,605 calories to a pound. An ounce yields 
one sixteenth of this, or 225 calories. Six ounces of milk is three 
eighths of a pound, three eighths of 3.3 (protein) and 325 (fuel 
value) gives .012 and 120 as the quantity of protein and calories of 
fuel in the milk. By adding the figures in the columns representing 
the protein and calories of fuel value, the amount consumed by the 
family and the calories released in energy is determined; dividing 
by four gives the proportion for one man. 

SAMPLE MENU FOR FAMILY OF SIX 

Man at moderate muscular labor, woman, two girls, 12 and 6; 
two boys, 10 and 8 years of age. This family (see page 621) re- 
quires the same number of calories of heat and potential energy 
as four men at moderate muscular labor — i. e. : 

Man Woman Girl Boy Girl Boy 
1.0 + .08 + .06 + .06 + .05 + .05=4. 

BREAKFAST 

Fuel 
Weight Protein Value 

lbs. oz. Pounds Calories 

Granges 2 .012 300 

Oatmeal: 

Oatmeal 4 . 042 465 

Milk 6 .012 120 

Sugar 2 235 

Boiled eggs (8) 1 o .131 635 

Com cake (no eggs) i . io6 i^sS 

Butter 4 880 

Coffee: 

Sugar 2 .oor' 235 

Milk 6 .012 120 

Total 

.316 4,428 

DINNER 

Broiled beefsteak, lean a . 342 1,570 

Mashed Potatoes: 
Potatoes I 8 .037 660 



SAMPLE MENU FOR FAMILY OF SIX 623 



Fuel 

Value 

Calories 



Weight Protein 

lbs. oc. Pounds 

Butter : I 

Milk 3 .006 

Spinach t 4 .027 

Butter I 

Bread 12 .071 

Butter 4 

Baked Apple, Tapioca Pudding: 

Apples I .004 

Tapioca 4 ,001 

Sugar 4 

Cream 4 . 006 

Total . 494 

SUPPER 

Creamed Codfish: 

Salt codfish 8 .128 

Milk I .033 

Butter I 

Flour I .007 

One egg 2 .016 

Baked Potatoes: 1 ,025 

Butter 4 

Biscuit I .084 

Tea: 
Milk and sugar .012 

Total .305 4,099 

Protein 

Total for one day i .055 

Total for one man .278 

Standard estimate, Atwater .25 



22s 

60 

138 

225 

QIO 
900 

2SS 

412 
470 
228 

6,053 



24S 

22s 
103 

78 

440 

900 
i,430 

353 



Calories 
14,588 

3.647 
3,400 



Both the amount of protein and the number of calories of energy- 
are in excess of the standard. This gives an opportunity to study 
the menu more critically, though the excess in this menu in con- 
nection with other menus day after day would probably be over- 
balanced before many days. For it is to be considered that, in 
periods of a week or ten days, the diet is more likely to approach 



634 PRACTICAL COOKING AND SERVING 

the standard than when a single day is taken into account. By 
omitting the cream with the pudding at dinner, the total for pne 
man becomes . 2 6 of protein and 3 , 590 calories. Reduce the number 
of eggs in the breakfast menu to four and use these with cooked 
rice in an omelet, and the figures (coimting the butter used in 
cooking and the rice) become .25 of protein and 3,623 calories. 



CHAPTER IV 
The Physiology of Digestion 

"Preserve and treat food as you would your body, remembering that in time 
!ood will be your body." 

Food ingested to supply the solid waste of the body is taken from 
the extennal world; and this food needs contain all the elements 
of the body, the principal of which are carbon, hydrogen, nitrogen, 
iron, etc. These, except oxygen, cannot be taken into the body as 
elements, but need be presented in conbination, as albumen, starch, 
sugar. These are called the food principles. Plants live upon 
elements (that is, plants cannot take care of complex substances), 
and, in the process of assimilation and growth, they unite or fashion 
the elements into food principles. Mankind takes these more com- 
plex structures and, by the processes of cooking and digestion, 
changes them into soluble and diffusible matter, which may be 
assimilated and made a part of human flesh and blood. 

In making out bills of fare, it is quite necessary to consider, not 
only the office which each food principle performs in the body, 
but also various points relative to the subject of digestion. 

The digestive process is both mechanical and chemical; and for 
present purpose it has to do with mastication, insalivation, gastric 
and intestinal digestion. 

MASTICATION AND INSALIVATION 

On being taken into the mouth, solid food comes under the 
mechanical action of the teeth, by which it is cut, crushed, and 
groimd, or finely divided, at the same time it is becoming mixed 
with the mucus and saliva from the glands of the mouth. The 
action of the teeth and mucus is purely mechanical, but that of the 
saliva is chemical. The ptyalin of the saliva is a ferment, and 
in an alkaline media it changes starch into dextrin and maltose 
(malt sugar). The importance of thorough mastication and in- 
salivation becomes obvious, when we consider that the digestion 

i2S 



626 PRACTICAL COOKING AND SERVING 

of starch is not continued — except possibly for a few moments 
after the food first enters the stomach and before it is permeated 
by the acid of the gastric juice — until it meets the pancreatic 
juice in the small intestine. The latter is secreted by the pancreas, 
sometimes called the abdominal salivary gland. This juice is 
poured into the process most freely two or three hours after a meal, 
or at about the time that stomach digestion ceases. For, though 
starch is not digested in the stomach, it remains there and passes 
on at the same time with other food to the small intestine. 

PANCREATIC JUICE AND INTESTINAL DIGESTION 

Pancreatic juice contains several ferments: (i) Amylopsin, re- 
sembling the ptyalin of the saliva, which finishes the digestion 
of starch that had been begun in the mouth by the ptyalin; (2) 
trypsin, a ferment like pepsin, capable of converting proteids into 
peptones; (3) a milk curdling ferment, like rennet; (4) steapsin, 
capable of decomposing fats into fatty acids and glycerine; possibly, 
also, a fifth ferment that emulsifies the fats, dividing them into 
smaller and smaller droplets, until they can be taken up by the 
cells lining the intestines and so pass into the blood. The blood 
deposits them between the bundles of muscle ready for use when 
needed. 

STARCH AND ACID OR TEA NOT A PROPER FOOD 
COMBINATION 

Neither ptyalin nor amylopsin can act in an acid media. This 
indicates that starch and acids do not form a suitable food com- 
bination. Tea, probably, by its astringent property, arrests the 
activity of both the salivary glands and the pancreas. As the 
secretions from these organs are the only agencies in the system 
by which starch is digested, tea and starchy food evidently do not 
form a hygienic combination. It follows, then, that the proper 
time for tea drinking is not until the food has left the stomach 
then it may be taken as a stimulant. Neither ptyalin nor amylopsin 
is developed in children until the teeth begin to appear: hence it 
were wise to give no starchy food to children until after the first 
year, except that which has been converted into dextrin or maltose 
outside the body. 

The starch in a piece of bread, properly toasted, and in the crust 
of a loaf, properly baked, are easily digested, because the starch 



TO SECURE PROPER STOMACH DIGESTION 627 

has been changed to dextrin and, being dry and hard, they cannot 
be swallowed until masticated for some time, thus insuring the 
digestive action of the pytalin and the change into maltose. 
By the law of opposites this explains why fresh bread, which 
of itself is no more indigestible than stale bread, is considered 
unwholesome and indigestible. If mastication be but continued 
long enough, fresh and stale bread are equally digestible. 

STOMACH, OR QASTRIC, DIGESTION 

The stomach is lined with mucous membrane, filled with count- 
less glands and ducts. These microspic organs both secrete and 
absorb fluids. The gastric glands secrete the gastric juice. Like 
the salivary glands, these are excited to activity by the pres- 
ence of food, in this case, in the stomach. The gastric Juice 
contains the ferments, pepsin and rennin, and free hydrochloric 
acid. The rennin curcUes milk and the pepsin acts upon proteid 
matters and, in conjunction with hydrochloric acid, dissolves and 
converts them into albumose and finally into peptone. Peptone, 
compared with albumen in its first estate, is very diffusible and 
passes at once into the blood vessels of the stomach. 

RESULTS OF QASTRIC DIGESTION 

The results of gastric digestion may be summed up as follows: 
Proteids are changed into albumose, then into peptone. Fats 
are liberated by solution of the cell walls. Starch is not affected. 
Sugar is partly changed into dextrose and partly into lactic acid. 
During the process all soluble matter — i. e., water, soluble 
salts, and peptones — are being absorbed by the walls of the 
stomach, and the rest of the proteids, together with the fats and 
starches and the greater bulk of the sugars, pass into the upper 
bowel, or small intestine. 

CONDITIONS NECESSARY TO SECURE PROPER STOMACH 

DIGESTION 

I. The careful subdivision and insalivation of the food by 
mastication. 

This condition is necessary for proteid food, in order that the 
stomach may not be called upon for too vigorous action in changmg 
proteid into a semi-fluid mass, and for starch, to insure the change 



628 PRACTICAL COOKING AND SERVING 

into dextrin and sweet substances that may be affected by the 
gastric jiiices. 

2. The proper temperature of the food, which should be about 
1 00° Fahrenheit. 

3. The ingestion of a sufficient quantity of liquid, and no 
more, when added to the digestive fluids, to insure the conversion 
of the food into a semi-fluid mass, or, in other words, the avoidance 
of "washing down" the food with either hot or cold liquids. 

4. Freedom from violent exercise half an hour before and after 
meals. 

5. No eating between meals and no irregularity in the meal- 
time. 

On account of its muscular structure, the stomach, in accordance 
with the laws of the muscular system, requires periodic rest. 

6. The flow of the digestive fluids is largely dependent upon 
cheerful atmosphere and conversation at meal-times. 

INTESTINAL DIGESTION, CONTINUED 

Besides the pancreatic juice, before referred to, bile from the 
liver and the intestinal juice itself are active in carrying on the 
digestive process in the small intestine: absorption takes place 
chiefly here. This is made possible by the finger-like projections, 
called villi, into which the inner surface of the intestine is thrown. 
These projections dip into the fluid mass of food, absorbing 
digestible materials, peptones, fats, etc., which are carried, thus, 
into the blood and lymphatic vessels. 

EFFECTS OF UNSUITABLE FOOD 

When the mucous surface of the membrane is irritated by im- 
proper food, the glands become over-excited and pour out a large 
quantity of fluid, and diarrhora may result. If the irritation be 
continued, the glands become exhausted and unable to act, and 
dryness, causing constipation, results. In the absence of all 
irritating food, less juice is secreted and constipation follows. 
In selecting a dietary, enough waste or indigestible matter needs 
be provided, to insure a moderate flow of intestinal juice, other- 
wise the bowels will not be kept open. 

One who understands the process of digestion thoroughly is 
often able, when occasion require, to regulate his diet to nicety. 
For instance, in cases of hyper-addity of the stomach, if this be 




ICE CREA,M IM MLbKMbLU^, (See page SS7.) 




PEACH UUUSSE. (See page 576.) 




SYRUP GAUGE IN TEST TUBE. (See pa?e 583.) 
SUGAR SPINNER (See page S9i-) 




STRAWBERRY SOUFFLE FRAPPE. (See page S77-) 




B'ii.iia)1ii^«iiiliilVi<iitiii"ii iiiiiii I ii iiiBiiiiuiiniiiiiliii ■ iBi 

STRAWBERRY CANNELON GLACE. (See page S7i.) 




COCOA FRAPPE WITH WHIPPED CREAM. (See page sSg.J 



EFFECTS OF UNStJITABLE FOOD 629 

caused by over-activity of the gastric glands, the larger use of fats, 
in some form, which tend to depress such secretion, would be in- 
dicated. As a rule, the ingestion of a food principle incites the 
flow of the fluids that digest it; and, if too much of any fluid be 
secreted, other principles might be substituted, imtil such time 
as the digestive equilibrium can be maintained. 

We have said that bread and tea were not a good dietetic com- 
bination. Butter, however, is an aid to the digestion of bread. 
Fats are digested in the intestine, where they stimulate the secre- 
tion of the pancreatic juice. Here also may be digested whatever 
starch — bread is largely starch — has escaped the ptyalin of the 
saliva; and the presence of the fat (butter) insiu-es sufficient activ- 
ity of the pancreas to digest the starch. 

Starch and fat in the form of pastry is quite another matter, 
though even here thorough mastication is a precautionary measure. 
In pastry the starch granulas are enveloped in fat, which is not 
affected by the ptyalin. The fat keeps the ptyalin from the starch 
and the latter is not changed in any manner, until it comes into 
contact with the amylopsin of the pancreatic juice. At this point 
tlie fat, by stimulating this secretion, aids in the digestion of the 
pastry as a whol«. 



CHAPTER V 
Suggestions on Garnishing and Serving 

"Dainty ways of serving food have a usefulness beyond their esthetic value. 
Every one knows that a feeble appetite is often tempted by a tastefully gar- 
nished dish,when the same material carelessly served would seem quite un- 
palatable. Furthermore, many cheap articles and 'left overs' when well 
seasoned and attractively served may be just as appetizing as dearer ones, 
and will usually be found quite as nutritious." — W. O. Atwater, Ph.D. 

A DISH is garnished for two reasons. The garnish is either to 
make the dish more attractive to the eye, as when a sprig of parsley 
and slice of lemon is laid upon a chop or bit of fish; or, to add to the 
food value and at the same time to the looks of the dish, as when 
macaroni in tomato sauce surroimds a dish of tenderloin cutlets. In 
garnishing a dish, two things must be kept in mind: the garnish 
must be appropriate to the article served, and it must be so dis- 
posed as not to interfere with the service. One third of the serving 
dishes should be left clear even of the garnish. Edible articles are 
more appropriate than are those which are used simply for looks. 
Utility is a prime consideration. As a rule sweets are not used 
with savory dishes; an exception is made of candied and maraschino 
cherries, preserved whole currants, or strawberries, and small 
pieces of sweet pickle. These are occasionally seen in a wreath 
of parsley or water-cress surrounding a roast of beef or mutton, 
broiled chickens or birds. Four or five cherries accompany each 
portion. Pistachio nuts are also used for both sweet and savory 
dishes. Flat croquettes of chickens or sweetbread are particularly 
adapted to decoration with this nut. The use of full-blown roses, 
buds or petals, is confined to sweet dishes, while nasturtium 
leaves, blossoms and tendrils are appropriate for meats, salads, 
etc. Parsley is preferred with fish, and cress with beef and 
mutton. 

Toast in any form is out of place on the same dish with potatoes, 

630 



SUGGESTIONS ON GARNISHING AND SERVING 631 

or shapes, cut from puff-paste. Bread for toast garnish, should 
be cut before toasting. Triangles, pyramids, diamonds, cutlet 
shapes, cubes and cases are the usual forms. Variety can be 
given these by the use of toasters with wires differently arranged, 
or by dipping the edges or a portion of the toast in fine-chopped 
parsley. These are used principally with creamed dishes or dishes 
served in connection with a sauce. 

Julienne, Saratoga, or French fried potatoes look and taste well 
with croquettes, cutlets, steaks and chops and do not preclude the 
use of a slice of lemon and a few sprigs of cress. 

Potato or pea "roses" are very attractive with almost any meat 
or fish dish. Diamonds of mashed or duchess potato, with a spoon- 
ful of peas in cream sauce in the centre (see page 264), are a 
favorite with baked fillets of fish. Their use, however, necessi- 
tates disposing the fish sauce in a dish apart. 

Garnishes made from hard-boiled eggs are niunerous. These 
may be cut in quarters, or eighths, lengthwise, in rings or in half 
rings; or the whites may be chopped fine and the yolks sifted. 
The pointed end may be cut off and the white, from which the 
yolk is removed, fastened with liquid gelatine to the pointed end 
resting on a plate, and these vases may be filled with capers or 
mayonnaise dressing. The white and yolks, beaten and poached, 
separately, may be cut in thin slices, from which various figures 
may be stamped. As a border to enclose a salad, the ends of 
lengthwise eighths of egg may be cut to stand evenly and fastened 
to the plate with liquid gelatine, to form a crown. 

Aspic jelly, cut in cubes or diamonds, or made fine with a fork 
and pushed through a forcing-bag and tube, garnishes cold meats, 
chaudfroids, etc. 

Figures, cut from slices of pickled beet and laid upon slices of 
lemon, give a suggestion of color often desirable. The same effect 
is secured with radishes cut in various ways without removal of 
the outer skin. 

Slices of , lemon, with rind complete or notched, dipped into fine- 
chopped parsley, make a change from the plain slice. Fine-chopped 
parsley is always effective sprinkled on potato balls or the top 
of a dish of creamed or mashed potato. The edge of timbale 
cases (pastry) used for creamed dishes, especially of fish or oysters 
when dipped in beaten white of egg and then in chopped parsley, 
present an especially festive appearance. In addition to the gar- 
nishes above enumerated, the following for special dishes deserve 
mention. 



632 PRACTICAL COOKING AND SERVING 

GARNISHES FOR ROAST CHICKEN, TURKEY AND 
ENTREES 

Celery leaves, lettuce, cut in ribbons, barberries and leaves; 
fried oysters, singly or in groups with or without green leaves; 
blanched chestnuts, glazed, alternating with sausage cakes, (k la 
Reyniere); blanched chestnuts, glazed, alternating with small 
sausage links, grouped in threes; mushroom forcemeat balls; 
celery, mushroom or chestnut croquettes; mushroom or chestnut 
jiurcc. 

GARNISHES FOR ROAST DUCK 

Olives, plain, or stoned and stuffed, black currant jelly in rice 
or hominy croustades. Half slices of orange (with skin) and endive 
leaves. 

GARNISHES FOR ROAST GOOSE 

Broiled sausage, gooseberry sauce, apple and barberry jdly, 
cooked rings of apple, centres filled with jelly. 

GARNISHES FOR QUAIL 

Squares of fried mush, cubes of currant jelly above 

GARNISHES FOR CANVASBACK DUCK, REDHEAD 
DUCK, ETC. 

Serve broiled or roasted wild birds of any kind on slices of toast 
or croutons spread with the mashed liver, seasoned with salt and 
pepper, onion juice and butter, and moistened with the drippings 
from which all fat has been taken. 

GARNISH^ FOR ROAST SADDLE OF MUTTON OR 
VENISON 

Turnip cups, cooked and glazed and filled with peas mix«d with 
iJefrnaise sauce; rice cupe holding currant jdly; rings of tart apjjk, 
cooked in syrup or in currant jelly reduced with syrup, fried 
bananas. 

Garnishes for soups are given in the chapter on Soups; celery 
and olives are passed with soup. 

No more than two varieties of vegetables should accompany 
a course; if another be desired, serve with a choice sauce, as an 



VEGETABLES SERVED WITH ROAST BEEF 633 

entree after the roast. Tomatoes with mayonnaise dressing appear 
at dinner as an entree. 

VEQETABLES SERVED WITH FISH 

Potatoes, tomatoes, or peas cooked in any manner desired, or 
tomatoes and cuciombers uncooked, may be served with fish; also 
onions, drained and refreshed several times while cooking and 
covered with a cream sauce, are served with fish. If the fish be 
served with a sauce, the vegetables, onions excepted, should be 
served without a sauce, as, potatoes, plain boiled, French fried 
baked, croquettes, balls, etc. 

VEQETABLES SERVED WITH ROAST BEEF 

With roast beef the favorite methods of serving potatoes are 
Franconia or baked with the beef, escalloped, mashed, or mashed 
and browned. Other vegetables that may accompany the roast 
are cauliflower, Brussels sprouts, new beets, beet greens, spinach, 
salsify, tomatoes, onions, squash, white turnips, green com, peas, 
and beans of all kinds, and rice, hominy, farina or macaroni. 

Beefsteak, mutton or lamb chops are accompanied by sweet or 
white potatoes in any form, fresh cooked or warmed over, or by 
any of the vegetables served with roast beef. Asparagus is often 
served with meat, but it is more appropriately served as a course 
by itself. 

With stewed or braised beef, potatoes, turnips, parsnips, carrots, 
tomatoes, peas, beans or vegetables k la jardinifere are served. 

With corned beef serve boiled potatoes (sweet or white), turnips, 
cabbage, beets, carrots, beet tops, spinach, dandelions, Brussels 
sprouts, cauliflower, and parsnips. 

Boiled mutton or lamb may be accompanied by boiled potatoes, 
turnips, salsify, onions, carrots, cauliflower, Brussels sprouts, 
spinach or green beans. 

Roast mutton calls for same vegetables as roast beef, and also 
red currant jelly and baked or fried bananas. 

With roast lamb, potatoes, green peas, beans, spinach, summer 
squash, white turnips, and asparagus — if this latter be not desired 
as a separate course — are served. 

With veal, roast or braised, choose white turnips, spinach, beet 
tops, young beets, peas, beans, dandelions, or escalloped cabbage. 

Roast pork calls for potatoes (white or sweet), squash, onionf:. 



634 PRACTICAL COOKING AND SERVING 

turnips, parsnips, spinach, salsify, or cauliflower, and apple 
sauce. 

Serve with poultry, roasted or boiled, potatoes (white or sweet), 
turnips, celery, cooked or uncooked, onions, Brussels sprouts, 
cauliflower, squash, mushrooms, green corn, peas and beans, rice, 
and cranberry sauce. Asparagus accompanies broiled spring 
chicken. 

With game, the vegetables are usually prepared in a somewhat 
elaborate manner. The vegetable considered the vegetable par 
excellence is celery, which may be served plain, stewed in cream 
sauce, braised with a brown sauce, or as a salad. Other vegetables 
are white potatoes in croquettes, or balls, sweet potatoes, glazed, 
tomatoes, broiled, or in a salad, cauliflower au gratin, spinach a la 
creme, or peas. Olives and black currant jelly are passed with 
duck; currant jelly, with venison; and fried hominy, with grouse 
and duck. 

Use only silver implements (silver fish slice, spoon or fork) in 
serving fish not protected with a covering of egg and crumbs. 



CHAPTER VI 
Hospitality and the Etiquette of Entertaining 

"He must leave the omniscience of business at the door when he comes into 
the palace of beauty." 

At the beginning of the Christian Era, hospitality was enjoined 
as a sacred duty. Timothy enumerates among the attributes of 
a bishop that he "must be a lover of hospitaUty." The laity also 
are exhorted by him to "use hospitality one to another without 
grudging." In those days, when inns did not aboimd, and the trav- 
eler could not readily procure food and shelter, an indiscriminate 
entertaining of guests must have been oftentimes a tax on courtesy. 

But, as times changed, invitations began to precede and be- 
come warrant for the acceptance of hospitality; and the old-time 
duty was gradually transformed into a flattering expression of 
personal favor. For trust and confidence in one who has been 
invited into the presence of your lares are implied. 

Eating is a chief and natural concern of life. It is, moreover, a 
pleasure; and she who charges herself with the entertainment 
of a guest becomes responsible, in a measure at least, for his 
temporary comfort and happiness. Like all other pleasures, that 
of the table is increased as it is shared; yet those who are bidden 
to break bread together should be congenial spirits. There needs 
be some common ground upon which all can meet. It is Montaigne 
who says that a man is not so much to regard what he eats as with 
whom he eats; and he commends Chilo "that he would not engage 
himself to be at Periander's feast till he first was informed who were 
to be the other guests." The sequence is natural; for, when one 
entertains another, and eats and drinks, with more deliberation 
than is customary — hygienic consideration to the contrary — the 
hour needslDe filled with "good discourse and pleasant talk." This 
it is that best gives relish to a feast. 

Having bidden, then, congenial company to meet at her table, 
the hostess must needs give attention to the food that is to supply 
the mental and physical wants of her guests. As no one course 

63s 



6^6 PRACTICAL COOKING AND SERVING 

must be drawn out to unseemly leagth, so no one subject of con- 
versation should engross too much attention. Then, too, the 
discourse, like the dishes in the menu, must be such as will be ap- 
preciated by the company. Sameness, which engenders weariness, 
needs be avoided; and controversy must never be admitted. Upon 
the hostess devolves largely the duty of keeping the conversational 
ball rolling briskly back and forth, to the end that each guest may 
take his turn without apparent effort or seeming premeditation. 
Truly, the hostess plays no inconsiderable part in a successful 
evening's drama; and, certainly, to cultivate and refine one's 
taste, to learn how to lose one's self in the study of what is pleasing 
to otiiers, has its influence in the formation of character itself. 
The menu provided for the "refection" of the physical body, 
while it should be in harmony with the environments and en- 
livened by the judicious iatroduction of little surprises, need 
not be ornate or extravagant. "Flamingoes from Sweden, game 
from Africa and South America, and pears from Assyria" are 
not called for. 

Within the past twenty-five years times have changed. The 
"decline of the kitchen" has become an assured fact; and the dweller 
in a flat, be it in Paris, New York, or the suburb of a more unpreten- 
tious city, should not seek to essay the inpossible. The vast 
and seemingly boundless resources of the country that once were, 
and made lavish providing possible, exist no longer. An elegant 
simplicity, enough and no more, neither ostentation nor profusion, 
mark the choicest entertainments of the present day. Perfect cook- 
ery, immaculate surroundings, and dainty service, each stamped 
with the hall-mark of the individual hostess, exemplify the ideal 
to be sought for by the hostess of the new century. 

In the greater number of homes in this country, the menage is 
limited to a single servant, perhaps, with special work done out of 
the house or a women to help on some extra occasion. Under these 
circumstances, do not attempt to entertain guests in a ceremonious 
style and manner that can be successfully carried out only in those 
homes where a corps of trained servants is kept. Be natural and 
simple; retain your friends by manifesting sincere interest in their 
prosperity, and genuine concern in their adversity. You yourself 
may not have the time to mingle with the outside world as you 
would desire; but these friends, if wisely chosen, will be as so many 
lines stretching out into the world and bringing to your fireside 
the lights and shadows of human affairs, ihe events of distant 
lands and climes, the living questions of the day, for thought and 



THE INVITATION 637 

dlscussioQ. What more liberal education could one desire for 
her children? 

And should you wish to emphasize your hospitality by some 
outward sign, attempt only what you can do well and without 
undue expenditure of time, money or strength. Set before your 
friends something simple, choice and well-prepared, that which 
will leave you free from anxiety concerning it. Cyrus, the younger, 
was conversant with the art of hospitahty. We read how he used 
often to send his friends viands partly eaten, and the halves of 
loaves, and other such things, desiring the bearer to say, in present- 
ing them, " Cyrus has been pleased with these, and therefore 
wishes you also to taste of them." And no one, says Xenophon, 
was ever beloved by a greater number of persons, either Greeks 
or barbarians. Always select those things that are appropriate 
to the occasion. If a friend drops in for five o'clock tea, do not 
make of it an opportunity to serve refreshments elaborate enough 
for a reception. There is an "eternal fitness" in the small affairs 
of life, as well as in those of the gravest importance. Give each the 
thought it deserves. Entertain simply, but often, and so learn 

to excel. 

THE FORMAL DINNER 

A Bolemn sacrifice performed in state. — Pope, 
The hospitality expressed in the words: 

"Come In the evening, or come in the morning; 
Come when you're looked for, or come without warning," 

is possible only between those people who hold to each other the ten- 
derest friendship of hfe, and whose coming and going disturb in no- 
wise the outward and visible revolution of the household machinery. 
Quite different is the case when hospitality is tendered in the form 
of an invitation to a formal dinner. In no other social function 
are the laws of etiquette so strictly to be observed. There are 
prescribed forms for everything connected with this function, and 
by carefully informing one's self in regard to a few rules of conduct, 
neither hostess nor guest need fear unpleasant situations; but, as 
in all things else, it is practice that makes perfect and gives the 
air of "being to the manner bom." 

THE INVITATION 

For a dinner party, as for a wedding party, and aU strictly 
ceremonial occasions, the inNdtation is in written rather than in 



638 PRACTICAL COOKING AND SERVING 

verbal form. Either a plain card of large size, or a sheet of heavy 
linen paper engraved in script, is considered in good taste. The 
names of the guests, the hour and date of the function, are filled 
in by hand. 

The prescribed form for both invitation and reply is given 

below: 

Invitation. 

Mr. and Mrs. Frank J. Brown 

request the pleasure of 

Mr. and Mrs. Drake's 

company at dinner, on Thursday, 

February fifteenth, at 

eight o'clock. 

loo Beacon Street, 

Feb. ist. 

The address upon the envelope reads: 

Mrs. Wm. F. Drake, 250 Marlboro Street. 

Reply. 

Mr. and Mrs. Wm. F. Drake 

accept with pleasure 

Mr. and Mrs. Brown's 

kind invitation to dinner on 

Thursday, February fifteenth, at 

eight o'clock. 

350 Marlboro Street. 

Feb. ist. 

Envelope addressed to Mrs. Frank J. Brown, 100 Beacon 
Street. 

If for any reason there is doubt of ability to attend the dinner, 
substitute in reply for the words "accept with pleasure" the 
words "regret that they are unable to accept." 

The invitation is usually sent out two weeks in advance, though 
in the height of the season, especially in large cities, it is sent even 
earlier. A reply should be sent the same day, or, at least, the day 
following the receipt of the invitation; it should be declined in case 
of inability to accept by either of the individuals included in the 
invitation. 



SEATING THE GUESTS 639 

THE HOUR AND LENGTH OF THE DINNER 

The hour at which a formal dinner is served depends upon local 
custom; seven, seven-thirty, and eight o'clock are the usual hours, 
though eight-thirty is often the hour in New York and Washington, 
and nine in London. Two hours is the limit of time to pass at the 
table; an hour and a half is preferable. Dinners are a recreation, 
and every moment should be charged with pleasure, if the affair 
is to be successful. 

ANNOUNCEMENT OF DINNER 

The guests will time their arrival to allow a margin of fifteen 
minutes before the hour for dinner. When all are assembled, the 
butler or waitress draws the curtains that lead from the room and 
bows slightly to the hostess, or says, "Dinner is served." If 
guests are late, dinner is notannoimced imtil an order from the 
hostess is received. 

SEATING THE GUESTS 

Where the number of guests is large and it might be inconvenient 
to inform the gentlemen as to the ladies they are to escort to the 
table, a tray holding small addressed envelopes is left in a con- 
spicuous place in the gentleman's dressing room, or is passed to the 
gentlemen before they enter the drawing room. Each selects the 
envelope bearing his name and finds enclosed on the card within 
the name of the lady he is to escort to the table. The letter R. 
or L. in one corner indicates the side of the table on which they 
are to find places. At each cover is a plain card on which is 
distinctly written the name of the guest who is to occupy the seat. 
The host, with the most distinguished lady present, or the one in 
whose honor the dinner is given, and who is to sit at his right, 
leads the way to the dining-room; the hostess with the gentleman 
who is to sit at her right leave the drawing room last. The host 
sits upon the side of the table farthest from the entrance, thus 
enabling the hostess to find her place without passing those who 
have preceded her. At the close of the dinner all rise and the 
ladies pass to the reception room, where coffee is served to them, 
while coffee is served in the dining-room, or the library to the gentle- 
man who remain behind to smoke. After a short half hour " the 
dinner" is ended. Guests of honor are the first to go, speaking 



640 PRACTICAL COOKING AND SERVING 

a few hearty words to the host and hostess in appreciation of their 
entertainment. It is considered almost a duty to return an in- 
vitation to dinner in kind, no other form of entertainment being 
quite equal to this. 

STYLES OF SERVING DINNER 

There are two distinct styles of serving a dinner: English and 
Russian; a third style, called by Mrs. Henderson "the compro- 
mise," emphasizes the best points of these two and is largely used, 
especially at "Uttle dinners" and hmcheons. The English style is 
that, with formalities omitted, which is usually seen every day at 
English, French, and American tables, in families where but one or, 
at most, two maids are employed. That is, the viands are served 
from the table, the hostess serving the soup, salad and dessert, 
and the host carving and serving the fish and roast. 

When a dinner is served k la Russe, the host and hostess are as 
guests at their own table, and everything is served "from the side" 
— that is, passed by attendants. It is needless to add that a 
dinner thus served by capable attendants passes most expeditiously. 
Empty plates and those containing individual portions are set 
down and removed from the right, but serving dishes, from which 
one is to help himself, are presented on the flat of the hand, with 
a folded napkin between, at the left of each guest. 

By the compromise plan or style, such dishes as the salad or 
dessert, which present a fine appearance and can be served quickly 
and without much effort, are served by the hostess, and a fish, for 
instance, easily separated into individual portions, is disposed by 
the host on the plates set down before him, one after another, by 
the waitress. 

Vegetable dishes, platters holding entrees, salads or ices, are 
held, while being passed, on the hand of the waitress, with a folded 
napkin between the hand and the dish. Plates holding individual 
portions of soup, entree, etc., bonbon dishes, small dishes of olives, 
salced aknonds and the like are passed on a tray. Plates should be 
chilled for the salad and ice and thoroughly warmed for the hot 
dishes. Platters holding entrees, salads, etc., shovdd not be over- 
filled; one third of the dish should be left free even of garnish. A 
single plate of soup or other article is to be carried at a time. Upon 
removing a plate that has been used, the one for the next course is 
put in its place, and, if silver be needed, this is laid at the side 
of the plate. 



TABLE COVERS AND LINEN 641 

Authorities differ as to passing individual plates of soup, entrees, 
etc., on the tray. If the waitress is not sufSciently expert to carry 
them steadily on the flat of the hand, the tray is preferable. Soup 
plates should be half filled. Plates should be removed with the 
left and replaced with the right hand. 

LAYING THE TABLE 

THE TABLE 

Dining tables are round, square, or long and oval; the oval table 
is a novelty just now, but there is no shape of table at which a seat 
gives as attractive and comprehensive a view of the guests and the 
whole ensemble as the round. Round tops are made at an expanse of 
$5.00 upward; these are placed above an ordinary dining table, 
to secure space to seat the number of guests desired. The larger 
the table the larger the space that can be given up to floral decora- 
tions, as the plate line is the same, or nearly the same, for all 
tables; fifteen or sixteen inches is about the proper width for the 
"covers," dinner pktes being ten inches in diameter. Table tops 
are made of pine wood and are hinged in the centre, the hinges 
being sunk into the wood; thus they fold jmd occupy lees space in 
storage. A round table five feet in diametM* will accommodate 
six people comfortably; it may be used for eight. A table five feet 
square affords ample space for eight people. A roimd table seven 
feet in diameter seats twelve people, giving about twenty-five 
inches for each cover. 

TABLE COVERS AND LINEN 

First of all spread upon the table a soft, double-faced cottoo 
material made for the purpose. This intalining protects the 
table, insures against noise in setting silver and chvna in place, 
and enhances the beauty of the Unen. Above this is laid the linen 
cloth laundered without folds, save one lengthwise exactly in the 
centre of the doth. In placing the cloth upon the table, let this 
fold come exactly in the middle of the table. Fineness and firmness 
are desirable qualities in table linen. In purchasing, select the 
natural bleached linen rather than that with the hi^ glaze and 
stiffness of artificially bleached linen. Laimder without starch 
as a rule. Starch is not required save in well-worn linen. Round 
cloths for round tables are no longer in demand. None but as 



642 PRACTICAL COOKING AND SERVING 

expert laundress could iron these to hang properly. The cloths 
for tables five feet in diameter, round or square, are woven with 
a handsomely designed centrepiece that extends to the plate line 
and sometimes to the edge of the table. The border of a very 
handsome cloth seen recently had a design of field daisies, the 
long, straight stems of which began at the selvedge and ended with 
the blossom, at graduated length, just below the edge of the table. 
The pattern of another was tulips and foliage, and so perfectly 
had it been laundered that each tulip seemed lifted up from the 
surface of the cloth. Or the damask may be woven to fit the table 
top and finished with a deep border of heavy handmade lace 
with an interlining of silk. An all-lace "cloth" over silk, of a 
shade that harmonizes with the general color scheme, is admissible, 
but the damask seems quite as appropriate for the serious business, 
of dining. 

Centrepieces are made in shapes to fit the table — round, oval 
square or oblong. These are of embroidered linen, drawnwork or 
lace; the two latter are often used over silk. In size, these centre- 
pieces are small, a little larger than the table mirror, which often 
rests upon them, or they extend to the plate line. The English 
"runner" is just now in vogue for long tables; this often occupies 
all the space to the covers. The centre is of lace or embroidery 
and the edge affords space for low vases of flowers and candle- 
sticks, which are disposed alternately in and out the entire length 
on each side. 

The napkins, or serviettes, as our English friends would say, 
should be large and of the same pattern as the cloth. In launder- 
ing these, fold in halves lengthwise, then fold-again lengthwise^ 
having the side with the selvedge edge upward; then fold over 
in the middle and one end back to the central fold; turn the napkin 
over and fold the other end to the central fold. (The napkin 
can be opened accordion fashion.) Place the napkins on the 
service plate, or at the left of the forks, or, when the plate holds 
oysters or canape, fold by hand in the middle and place above 
the plate. If cards be used to seat the guests, these should be 
placed upon the napkin. At dinner a roll, a piece of bread two 
by three inches, or three bread sticks tied together, are often 
placed, in sight, within the folds of the napkin. At luncheon 
any of these with a ball or neatly shaped piece of butter is placed 
on a bread and butter plate with a butter spreader, a little to the 
right and above the plate. Butter not being served at dinner or 
at very formal luncheons, this plate does not then appear. Some- 



THE COVER 64.3 

times, at luncheons the individual butter plate is used, when the 
little plate would crowd the cover, as when wine glasses take up 
the space. 

THE COVER 

At the place of each individual, the plate and serviette, with 
such knives, forks, spoons, glasses, etc., as are needed for that 
particular meal, make up what is called "the cover." Twenty 
inches of space is the least that should be allowed for each cover; 
twenty-five or thirty are better, and less than thirty inches would 
not do on a formal occasion. On formal occasions, a richly 
decorated dinner plate — about ten inches in diameter — is set 
at each cover, one inch from the table's edge, when the table is 
laid. The oyster and soup plates are placed, in turn, upon this, 
and, later, it is exchanged for the plate upon which the first 
hot course, after the soup, is served. When there are plenty of 
maids, thus avoiding drawing out the meal to an unseemly length, 
it is considered au fait to have a plate in the centre of each cover 
continuously, until the clearing of the table for dessert. 

At the right of the service plate, dispose as many knives as will 
be required before the dessert, each with cutting edge toward the 
plate. At the right of the knives, lay the soup spoon with the 
inside of the bowl upward; beyond this the fork for oysters and 
other hors d'ceuvre; so that, beginning with the oyster fork, the 
utensils on the right of the service plate be laid in the order of use. 
Beginning at the extreme left of the service plate, arrange the forks 
in the order of use, having the last used close to the plate. The 
tines should be txurned up. 

When the number of coiirses is such that but two or three knives 
and forks are required, the dessert fork may be placed upon the 
table with the other forks and nearest the plate, with the dessert 
spoon above the plate. 

Spoons or forks for punch and spoons for after-dinner coffee are 
best laid by the plate or saucer at the time of serving. Indeed, 
the table can be cleared more neatly for the dessert if all the silver 
for dessert be put in place when needed. 

At the upper right hand of the service plate, at the tips of the 
knives, set the glass for water. This holds when wine is not 
served. When the dinner includes wine, the glass for water stands 
nearly in front of the plate and the first wine glass to be used is 
placed at the points of the knives; the other wine glasses are dis- 
posed in one or two half circles, in the order of use, between this 



d44 PRACnCAt COOKING AND SERVING 

and the water glass. When but one wine is served at dinner, a 
choice is made of claret, sherry or champagne. When several wines 
are served, sauterne (in a tall colored glass) is poured for the 
oysters, and the glasses are refilled when the fish has been served. 
Sherry is served with the soup, champagne with the roast, and 
Burgundy or claret with the game. Occasionally champagne is 
served with the game, and claret with the roast. The glasses are 
filled after the ser\ing of the course. 

TABLE DECORATION 

The linen, service plates, and individual silver — glass being 
put in place last of all to avoid breakage — being systematically 
and regularly disposed upon the table, the china with decorations 
in natural position, the floral decorations may be completed. 
Time was when fruit was thought to be a notable feature in table 
decorations; but, at the present time — save at Thanksgiving or 
harvest spreads — fruit, except, perhaps, a basket of choice straw- 
berries, or cherries with blossoms and leaves, seem no longer ad- 
missible for this purpose. But one or two varieties of blossoms 
are used at a time. Arrange these so as to retain the beauty of 
each individual blossom. 

The decorations need be low or very high so as not to obstruct 
the view across the table. Sometimes blossoms are massed 
together to form a centrepiece, as when a bowl is filled with a 
mass of sweet peas; but the delicacy that is secured by the care- 
ful arrangement of a few blossoms or ferns is always in good taste. 
A table less than five feet in diameter affords space for no other 
decorations than a tall slender vase, or a small fern holder, filled 
with flowers or ferns. A space thirty inches in diameter may be 
taken for the decoration of a five-foot round table, if the meal 
be served from the side and place be given on the side table for 
olives, salted nuts,bonbons, etc. In this case the lighting must 
be from above, or space be found in the decorations to set the 
candelabra or candlesticks. Goldenrod, field daisies, and similar 
wild flowers should appear but once, and then when freshly gathered ; 
these are more suitable for a hall or reception room than for the 
dining-room. In the early spring, tulips, primroses, crocuses or 
valley lilies, growing in low wide pots set in jardiniferes, made for 
the purpose of green and cream-colored ware, make pleasing deco- 
rations for a round large table. Narcissus, with foliage, combined 
with maidenhair or other delicate ferns, the latter spreading out 



OTHER DECORATIONS tHAN FLOWERS 645 

in a very high crystal or green and gold vase, make a particularly 
beautiful table decoration. Yellow flowers and also violets need 
be used in the daylight. White and green make a delicate com- 
bination, but a touch of color is needed to give warmth or " tone," 
imless the time of the function be midsummer. The "Art 
Japanese" style of decoration is much affected by art students. 
Branches or single stems of flowers in small vases are placed here 
and there upon the table. Some blossoms are better adapted than 
others to this style of decoration. Branches of pussy-willow, 
catkins, japonica, peach, apple and cherry blossoms, holly and 
mistletoe are thus used successfully. 

The pretty Japanese custom of dropping a flower or flower petals 
in the finger-bowls has also obtained in this country. The flower 
chosen usually corresponds with those used in the decoration; rose 
petals and violets are particularly attractive for this use. A water- 
lily in each bowl is sometimes seen; when such lilies have been 
used as a centrepiece, nothing is more dainty for a summer break- 
fast party. 

LIQHTINQ THE TABLE 

Candles in stem candlesticks or in a candelabra are thought to 
give the most perfect light for a dinner table. If candles be used, 
there should be enough to light the room properly without the aid 
of gas or electric light, else the effect is lost The newer candle- 
sticks are fitted with a porcelain candle — in color to suit one's 
fancy — that holds the wax or paraffine candle. Below is a 
spiral spring that pushes up the real candle as it burns. Candles 
in these candlesticks require little attention and by their use the 
lighting of a room with candles is simplified. Care needs be taken 
to place the candlesticks where they will not obstruct the view 
of any of the guests. 

OTHER DECORATIONS THAN FLOWERS 

If one has choice bonbon dishes that will add to the appearance 
of the table, they may be placed upon the table, at equal distances 
from each other, and the larger decorative pieces, as lamps and 
flowers in vases. At the present time, however, it is customary 
to place all dishes of salted nuts, bonbons, olives etc., upon the 
sideboard. Here also, or upon a side table, should be disposed 
the finger-bowls, plates needed for any course not iced or hot, 
plates of bread or rolls, cracked ice, carafes of water, decanters 



646 PRACTICAL COOKING AND SERVING 

and cutlery. The waiters should note when bread and water is 
needed, and supply such need after the serving of a course, as fish 
or game. 

China, silver and cut glass are, in themselves, highly decorative. 
Then the viands, though they may not appear on the table, if 
daintily set up and garnished, enhance the festive aspect of a 
function. The simplest garnishes are the best; parsley or cress, 
light and dark green lettuce leaves cut in narrow ribbons, or 
nasturtium blossoms and leaves, for savory dishes, are among 
the simple and inexpensive garnishes that are always to be had. 
In summer young grape, strawberry or currant leaves provide 
an appropriate setting for fruit and berries, and, when all else 
fails, diamonds of toast and slices of lemon, cooked eggs or beets 
may be brought into requisition. Dish papers, cut from unprinted 
newspaper, to cover two thirds of the serving-dish, the edges 
neatly cut in fringe, are in demand for many savory dishes served 
without the intervention of a border, or unadorned with a garnish; 
lace papers are for sweet dishes and fringed linen doilies for bread 
and rolls. 

DETAIL OF SERVICE A LA RUSSE 

The oysters are in place when the guests are seated. When 
this course is finished, the oyster plate is removed and the service 
plate left in place. The soup plate is set upon this and, when 
this is removed, the service plate still is left and is used for olives, 
etc., being removed, with the left hand, when the fish plate is set 
down from the right with the right hand. When the fish plate 
is removed, the plate, with the entree neatly disposed upon it, 
replaces it. The plate for the roast displaces that on which the 
entree was served and is, in turn, displaced by the plate holding 
the glass of Roman punch and so on. In this manner a plate is 
always before the guest, until the table is cleared for the dessert. 
Then, the table being freed of condiments, relishes and stray 
crumbs, set down plates for the dessert, or plates holding individual 
portions of the dessert from the right. In order remove these 
from the right with the left hand, and set in place, with the right 
hand, the finger-bowls on doily-covered plates. Let the bowls be 
filled one third with warm water. The finger bowls are set on 
the doilies upon the table; and the plates are used for bonbons, 
lyhich are now passed; after which the ladies retire. Coffee and 
liquour in tiny glasses are served to the gentlemen in the dining- 
room, and coffee and green mint with fine ice, or, sometimes,, 



THE DINNER MENU 647 

maraschino, to the ladies, in the reception room. Spoons are 

passed with the mint. 

ORDER OF SERVICE 

In serving dinner, the maids, if there be two, begin at opposite 
ends of the table and serve first, the one, the lady on the right 
of the host, and the other, the gentleman on the right of the 
hostess, and so on, in order, until all have been served. In the 
next course, the lady and gentleman on the left of the host and 
hostess, respectively, are served first, and thus in regular order. 
If there be but one waitress, she begins first at the right, then at 
the left of the host; the right and then the left of the hostess, thus 
each time coming last to the host or the hostess. 

THE DINNER MENU 

When we read such books as "Culinary Jottings," by Wyvern, 
and "Food and Feeding," by Sir Henry Thompson, we are forced 
to acknowledge that men have probably given greater attention 
and wider research to the scientific aspect of culinary affairs and 
to the minutiae of the menu, regarding taste as the point of view, 
than have women. With what fond solicitude have Haywood, 
Savarin and Thompson discussed the relative position of the 
various courses in the menu. With them no details relative to 
cooking or eating have been thought trivial or beneath notice. 

Wyvern says: "After years of observation I have come to the 
conclusion, if you want to put nice little dinners upon your table, 
you must not only be prepared to take an infinite amount of trouble, 
but you must make a friend of your chef." Here are two points 
which it were well for those who demand "elaborate menus for a 
dinner" to consider carefully. You cannot get up even nice "little 
dinners" successfully without being willing "to take an infinite 
amount of pains," and then to cultivate the best of feelings — a 
spirit of comradeship, as it were — with the man or maid who is 
to carry out the details of the meal. It is in the nice execution of 
the simplest details that the artist is discovered, in culinary 
matters, as it is in those of more ambitious efforts. 

As a simple illustration, for instance, of the careful attention 
that must be given to little matters of details, where a phenomenal 
success in serving is sought for, we are told that at the Touraine 
(Boston), where the President was entertained on a recent visit. 



648 PRACTICAL COOKING AND SERVING 

even the butter served to the guests bore the stamp of the American 

The following may be called a representative menu for a formal 
dinner party in early April: 

REPRESENTATIVE MENU 

1ST Couxse: Oysters. (Lemon Slices, Brown or Rye Bread Sandwiches.) 
2ND Course: Consommfi k la Royal. 

3RD Course: Brook Trout, Broiled, MaJtre d'H6tel Butter. (Cucumbers.) 
4TH Course : Sweetbread Croquettes, Mushroom Sauce. 
STH Course: Saddle of Lamb, Stringless Beans. (BananaP"ritters.) 
6XH Course; Roman Pimch. 

7TH Course; Spring Chickens, Broiled, Lettuce Salad. 
Sth CotiRSE: Strawberry Bombe Glac6, Lady-Fingers. 
9TH CotTRSE: Bonbons, 
loTH CoimsE; Coffee. 

This menu might be lengthened (the larger the number of 
"covers" the larger the number of courses required by adding 
a second soup preferably a cream soup, as a choice, a second 
entr6e after the fish (as cutlets of beef forcemeat, tomato pur6e). 
A tiird after the saddle, which, in April, might be a dish of 
asparagus with a choice sauce, a hot pudding, as a custard souffle, 
or a cold sweet, as a wine jelly, or a macedoine of fruits, before 
the ice, and tiny individual cheese souffles, or some other savory 
tidbit, if a souffle has appeared before, as the bonne bouche, before 
the coffee. Liquors are served after the coffee in the tiniest of 
glasses. 

The color of the meats and the sauces in the different courses 
should vary, as a dark meat with a dark sauce should be followed 
by a light meat with a light sauce. For a large entertainment 
two soups are provided; a dear soup and thickened one. Potatoes 
and a sauce are served vdth a boUed or fried fish; cucumber salad 
is provided, when the fish is broiled or cooked in a fancy manner. 
Entries are so prepared as to be served without carving; if two be 
presented the first is the lighter or less substantial in character. 
Roasts include saddles of mutton, lamb or venison, beef or mutton 
tenderloins, turkey, capon, goose or duck. One or, at most, two 
vegetables accompany the roast. Cold meats, as aspics or chaud- 
froids, may be served after the game with salad; in this case salad 
is not passed with the game. 



FORMAL BREAKFASTS OR LUNCHEONS 649 

"LITTLE DINNERS" 

Grand, formal dinners, where eight or ten elaborate courses are 
served to from ten to eighteen people and by no less than three 
attendants, besides a cook, can be satisfactorily carried out only 
by people of wealth; but "little dinners" of eight covers, though 
six is preferable, may be served by a cook and one waitress to 
the perfect satisfaction of all concerned. Less formality is 
observed at such dinners, but the service needs be perfect, and 
this is only secured by practice. The menu for a dinner of this 
character would be made up practically as follows: Clear soup, 
fish, roast with one vegetable, game or hot cheese dish with salad, 
an ice, wafers, coffee. The little dinner may be elaborated by the 
addition of oysters before the soup, or an entree after the fish oi 
the roast, or after both. 

FORMAL BREAKFASTS OR LUNCHEONS 

Breakfast and Iimcheon parties are much alike. The points of 
difference are easily distinguished. Gentlemen are invited with 
ladies to breakfast. Fruit always forms the first course; coffee is 
served, at pleasure, throughout the meal, or at the close; ^gs 
appear in some form, usually as an entrde or at the dose as a sweet 
omelet; ices and cake, except at a wedding breakfast, are not con- 
sidered indispensable and are rarely served; lastly, the hour is 
not later than half-past twelve. A centrepiece of ferns, a choice, 
growing plant, or cut flowers, are appropriate. If cut flowers be 
used the arrangement should be sunple; elaborate effects in all 
particulars are out of place, If the breakfast be intended for a 
rather formal function, serve the coffee at the close. The method 
of s^'ving is the same for both breakfast and luncheon parties, 
and differs but little from that of a dinner paj-ty^ The table is 
laid in tl>e same manner, except that, at luncheon, the polished 
table may be beure, save for a luncheon cloth or a centreiplece and 
dodlies. For a luncheon the napkins are usually quite small and 
fringed. The doilies are nmde in three sets, twelve, eight and four 
inches, respwctively, in diameter, for service plate, bread and butter 
plate, and water glass. As the doily for the service plate provides 
space for but a single knife and fork, other small pieces of silver 
are put in place as needed. For a simple luncheon, with near 
friends as guests, fringed napkins of small size, perfectly laundered, 
spread for the service plate, give a happy change froim the ordinary 
tablecloth. 



6so PRACTICAL COOKING AND SERVING 

At luncheon the bouillon cup supplants the soup plate and 
the bouillon spoon the table or soup spoon. At a very formal 
dinner in an Eastern city last winter, consomme was served as a 
first course in bouillon cups, and bouillon spoons were beside the 
plate, but the hostess drank her soup from the cup,_ every one soon 
following suit. Gentlemen seemed to like the innovation, the 
soup not being garnished, but the procedure, though quite the 
proper thing at a supper served "en buffet," seems not quite in 
harmony with the appointments of an elegant dinner. Roasts 
are reserved for dinner, and chops, chicken jointed or in individual 
pieces, small fillets of beef tenderloin, etc., with a vegetable, do 
duty as the piece de resistance of the meal. Before the birds 
and salad, a cup of chocolate with whipped cream, or a sherbet 
or frozen punch is often served, though the chocolate seems a 
little incongruous at this point in a luncheon. Birds are often 
supplanted by a salad in aspic. 

THE HOME DINNER 

"It seems dinners are but innovations, whilst breakfasts and suppers are 
men's most ancient and natural meals." 

"Laughter isoneof the greatest helps to digestion with whichi am acquainted, 
and the custom prevalent among our forefathers of exciting it at table by 
jesters and buffoons was foimded upon true medical principles." — Hdteland. 

"Food well chatted is half digested." 

THE HOUR OF THE HOME DINNER 

Fuller, in speaking of the ravens that brought Elijah bread and 
flesh in the morning and evening, draws the conclusion given at. 
the head of this topic. In the main, this idea that dinner, or a 
midday meal, is an innovation accords with all history. Historians 
agree that the fact of the preparation of but a single meal in a 
day is one of the chief marks of distinction between savage and 
ci^ized races. The single meal of the savage is prepared toward 
the dose of the day, after food has been secured from the streams, 
or as trophies of flie chase. The world's events move in circles, 
and the innovation of a midday meal is surely disappearing in 
favor of the ancient custom of dinner after the work of the day has 
been accomplished. 

In this custom there are advantages and disadvantages. If the 
itxsaXy consist of growing children, a substantial midday meal 



THE HOUR OF THE HOME DINNER 651 

becomes quite necessary for them. Tliroughout the whole 
period of school life the growth of the body is going on, the in- 
dividual organs are increasing in size, and the entire framework 
is being constantly enlarged and strengthened. To meet this 
growth, there must be an abundant allowance of food — and food 
of the proper kind — to furnish new tissues (proteid) and to supply 
force and activity (carbohydrates). Then, too, monotony in 
diet, which is really less common from economic reasons than from 
carelessness or failure to understand the importance of the subject, 
must be avoided. 

During the period of youth the foundations of future health or 
disease are laid; and, while more pains needs be taken in the case 
of children of feeble constitution by inheritance, a matter of such 
vital importance to all children needs be under the direct and con- 
stant supervision of a thoughtful mother. Adults digest and 
assimilate slowly, and, as only light mental or physical work 
should be undertaken after the ingestion of hearty food, a midday 
meal for them is not to be considered. In actual practice, the 
preparation of two dinners in one day is not the troublesome matter 
that it appears at first sight, for the number of meals is not increased 
and in families where two or three maids are kept and the heaviest 
work of the day has been completed, their dinner may be prepared 
with that of the children. If there be but one or two children, it 
is a simple matter to broil chops or a bit of steak or fish, which 
with a baked potato may furnish the piice de resistance of many 
a dinner, leaving soup for the meal at night. 

At night there can be no excuse for an indifferently prepared 
meal; everything can be made ready in the early part of the day 
and the final cooking and serving be completed without the rush 
and hurry incident when other work is going on. At least two 
dishes, as the soup and the dessert, should be suitable for children 
of school age, who should appear at dinner and be encouraged to 
add their mite to the pleasure of the occasion. If we cannot have 
music and dancing, "jesters and buffoons," to beguile us while 
we eat, let the brightness of the day that has come to us, the 
lively sayings that we hear, cheer the hours of the mealtime, 
and, lest we miss some good thing that will bear repeating, let 
us cultivate the habit of looking for brightness everywhere. The 
dinner being the formal meal of the day, plan to keep in reserve 
something to make both the menu and table attractive; holly 
and evergreen at Christmas, a pot of crocuses, primroses, tulips 
or jonquils in the late winter, a potted fern in a jardiniere, a root 



6%2 PRACTlOVL COOKJNC AND SEliVING 

of partridge vine with berries and a few green things from the woods 
growing in moist earth vinder glass in the late autumn, are attain- 
able by many. In late spring and summer the children will find, 
in their daily rambles, enough delicate wild flowers or foliage to 
insure a pleasing and varied centrepiece. The influence of these 
little things is often more far-reaching than we imagine. Who 
could serve "soggy" potatoes or a burned and smoky steak, or 
what child would far overstep the limits of decorum without com- 
punctions of remorse, or, at least, a sense of incongruity, at a 
table adorned with a pot of crocuses, tulips, or jonquils. 

SERVING THE HOME DINNER 

THE MENU 

The regular home dinner should consist of soup, a substantial 
dish, as meat, poultry or fish, one or two vegetables, a salad, a 
sweet and coffee. A carefully prepared entr6e after the ^ce de 
resistance adds to the variety and style of the meal. If this be 
fashioned of some "left over," which even careful management 
cannot entirely eliminate, it tends to diminish the quantity of the 
main dish of the meal — and usually the most expensive article 
in the menu. The style of serving the home dinner must of 
necessity depend largely upon the style of living. When the 
mother is assisted by only one maid, steps need be considered, 
and serving from the side is evidently quite out of the question, 
even if the maid be able to carve. 

The soup in soup plate may be brought in on the service plate 
just before the family are seated. This obviates the use of a 
second service or change plate, a necessity when any one save an 
expert passes soup in the dining room. While the soup is being 
eaten, the maid dishes the roast and vegetables and brings in 
the roast, the table having been laid with a carving cloth and 
cutleiy. She retires with two soup plates and brings in from the 
warming oven the required number of dinner plates, which she 
sets down directly in front or at the left of the server, then she 
removes to a side table the rest of the soup plates, two at a time. 
Plates in a pUe are considered a breach of perfect table service, 
and is a concession to existing circumstances. 

When the maid waits upon the table five days in the week, a 
routine suitable to that particular family can be easily mastered 




CHICKEN SOUP WITH BREAD STICKS. (See page i8o.; 




JUNKET WITH APPLE, CHERRIES, ETC. (See page S24-) 




SOUFFLED EGG. (See Poached Esg, Hysienic Fashion, naee 63.) 




FONDANT MAKING. (See page 583.) 



.1^ 




BONBONS, FONDANT, CHOCOLATE CHESTNUTS AND 
MAPLE CREAMS. 



SERVING THE HOME DINNER 653 

by both family and maid, to the end that each shall know what o 
is to be expected. 

While the meat is being carved and passed to the older members 
of the family, the maid brings in two vegetables on a tray, a table- 
spoon in each, and passes the tray to the left of each individual. 
She now sets the tray on the side table and, when the meat for 
the children is cut, places the vegetables allowed them on the plates, 
cuts the meat in small bits and sets them before the children. 
Where the maid cannot carry or hold the plate safely on the flat 
of the hand, with a folded napkin between, it should be carried 
on a tray. This course finished, the plates are removed, two at 
a time, to a side table, where, when opportunity offers, the silver 
is noiselessly collected on a tray and the plates are piled to be 
taken to the kitchen. The salad, kept until this time in a cool 
place, is now placed before the mistress, the plates as before, the 
salad spoon on the right, the fork on the left; the filled plates are 
set down before those at table from the right, and later on removed, 
one at a time, from the right to the side table. Remove the 
salad dish, salt, etc., on a tray, brush the crumbs, and set the 
dessert before the mistress (this, if not an ice, or a dish served hot 
or chilled, may have been standing on the sideboard), put the 
plates in place, as also a spoon for serving. Set the prepared 
plates down from the right, pass sauce or sugar and cream on a 
tray to the left. Then bring in the coffee, made after the serving of 
the salad, on a tray with cups and saucers. Set the coffee service 
before the mistress from the right, and pass the cups of coffee, then 
the sugar and cream on a small tray, if these are served, or if the 
mother does not add them. If finger-bowls be used, set these in 
place, from the right, one third filled with tepid water and standing 
on a plate with a doily between; pass bonbons, fill the glasses, 
and retire. On occasion, the dessert plates might be removed 
before pacing coffee and finger-bowls, but generally, with dishes 
to wash and her own dinner to get ready, this will not be required. 
Finger-bowls with children at table are a necessity rather than a 
luxury. 

With more maids, the nearer the approach may be to the service 
of the formal dinner. 

As the Thursday night dinner and the Sunday night tea are 
often prepared and served without the assistance of a maid, 
everything should be in readiness beforehand and a menu selected 
that will admit of as many dishes as possible being placed either 
on the table, or on a side table, before the family is called. Then, 



^54 practicyu. cooking and serving 

ii one of the family quietly removes the meat course with its 
attendant dishes, brushes the crumbs, and, after the salad has been 
considered, attends to the passing of the dessert, brings in boiling 
water and sets the coffee, tea or cocoa service in place, the meal 
may be daintily served to the satisfaction of all. The making 
of the beverage, or cooking of an article upon the chafing dish, 
will give variety and add a charm to the meal that will amply 
compensate for loss in some other features of the service. 

TEAS 

I can hit on no novelty — none, on my life, 
Unless peradventure you'd tea with your wife. 

— Ingoldsbv Legends. 



"Let steaming kettle sing, 
Then pretty caddy bring, 
And teapot from Japan." 



In America a cup of tea is not the universal and everyday 
occurrence that it is in England and her dependencies. Originally, 
perhaps, climate had something to do with the introduction of 
this custom abroad. Then, too, the lateness of the foreign dinner 
hour made the habit almost a necessity. But now we, who are 
inclined to copy what we like, wherever it may be found, have 
taken this pleasing and informal form of hospitality for our own, 
and the five o'clock tea table has become a familiar object in our 
homes. Moreover, in addition to the dehghtful custom of offering 
a cup of tea to the chance caller of the late afternoon, we have 
instituted all sorts of "teas." 

There are private and public teas, church and club teas, to 
introduce a debutante or welcome a guest of distinction. Then 
there are teas that take the form of an "at home" given on some 
particular and uniform day of each week of the month or season. 

For all these, except the informal five o'clock function, which 
can hardly be classed a "function," invitations in some form are 
extended. When the tea takes the form of an "at home," a 
plain visiting card, with the receiving day engraved at the lower 
left hand corner, is sent to friends and acquaintances and also to 
strangers whose acquaintance is desired. When possible, besides 
the card of invitation, a verbal invitation is also given in the 
case of strangers, and takes the place sometimes of the card. Tho 



TEAS 6S5 

cards show that the teas are for Tuesdays during the season, the 
month of January, and for one Tuesday in January, respectively. 
The address may be added at discretion. 



Mrs. James B Mrs. James B 

Tuesdays. Tuesdays in January. 

Mrs. James B 

Tuesday, January Fifth. 

For the five o'clock tea as an everyday occurrence, or as given 
on some special day each week of the season, no formal display 
is made. It is simply a social hour snatched from a busy day, 
but the service needs be dainty and immaculate. The sandwiches 
are ethereal affairs, and the tea a choice brand. Polished silver 
and eggshell china are needful accessories. The butler, maid, 
or a member of the family, according to circumstances, separates 
the nest of tea tables, and places all but the outer one about the 
reception room, where they will best accommodate the guests. Up- 
on these a plate of sandwiches or wafers may be placed, or they, 
furnish a convenient receptacle for a cup or plate. The largest 
table is placed before the hostess. Upon this a tray holding the 
tea service is set. Hot water is brought on in the teakettle, which 
over the spirit lamp soon reaches the boiling point, and tea is 
made. The tea ball, or the newer teaspoon, on the same principle 
as the ball, is a convenience, where a single cup of tea is to be 
poured at a time; but, when several cups are to be served at once, 
the teapot, with its heat-confining cosy, is called into requisition. 
Sweets are occasionally served; but "good form," as well as 
hygienic considerations connected with the nearness of the dinner 
hour, restrict the refection to dry biscuit or wafer-like sandwiches. 
In absence of more than one assistant, guests wait on themselves 
and each other, the maid attending to the supply of hot water 
and removing the cups. 

When cards are sent out to one's entire Ust of acquaintances 
for some special day, as Tuesday, January 5, the tea loses its 
home character and becomes a reception. Potted plants and cut 
flowers are in profusion, when means admit; daylight is excluded, 
and a table in the dining room is made attractive with flowers, 
lights (preferably candles), beautiful china, silver and glass. An 
«rchestra of stringed instruments, screened from view and rendering 
selections that are but little more than audible, stimulate conversa- 
tion, and give the finishing touch to a bright and charming form 



6s6 PRACTICAL COOKING AND SERVING 

of entertainment. The menu for such an occasion includes 
tea, cocoa, bouillon, sandwiches, salads, ices, cakes, and bonbons. 
The guests enter the room without invitation. Waiters are in 
attendance, who serve or assist in serving the various kinds of 
dainties. 

When cards are sent out for a series of teas, as for "Tuesdays 
in January," the affair is rather more formal than the "five 
o'clock," but much less formal than the reception. Music is 
dispensed with, unless it be vocal, or a few selections on the 
piano, toward the dose of the entertainment. The refreshments 
are served in the dining room from a prettily decorated table. 
The tea service and the service for cocoa, presided over by friends 
of the hostess, occupy two sides of the table respectively. Guests 
enter the room without invitation, and are served with tea or 
cocoa, helping themselves to sandwiches, cakes, and bonbons, 
with which the table is kept supplied. A maid takes the soiled 
cups, and sometimes a second maid brings in glasses of frapp6 or 
sherbet. Church, club and other teas are copies or modifications 
of one of these three general styles of "tea." 



CHAPTER VII 

Menus for Occasions 

THANKSQIVINQ DINNER 

We yield Thee unfeigned thanks and praise, as for all Thy merdes, so espec- 
ially for the returns of seed-time and harvest, and for crowning the year with 
Thy goodness in the increase of the ground, and the gathering in of the fruits 
thereof. — Book of Common Peayee. 

MENU 

ConsonunS a la Royal, Celery. 

Roast Turkey. 

Garnish: Sausage Cakes and Italian Chestnuts. 

Escalloped Oysters. 

Mashed Potatoes, Sweet Potato and Almond Croquettes, 

Sweet Piclded Peaches, Gooseberry Jelly. 

Cauliflower, Hollandaise Sauce. 

Cranberry Frapp^. 

Chicken Salad, French Style. 

Ginger Ice Cream. Hot Apple Pie. 

Neufchatel Cheese, Crackers. 

Black Coffee. 

THANKSQIVINQ DINNER. (COLONIAL STYLE) 

"Some hae meat and canna eat. 
And some hae nane who want it. 
But we hae meat and we can eat 
And sae the Lord be thankit." 

MENU 

Clam Chowder, Pickles. 
Wild Turkey Stuffed with Chestnuts. 
Roast Spare Rib (Pork). Pumpkin Sauce. 

Succotash. Mashed Turnips. Onions. 

6s 7 



658 PRACTICAL COOKING AND SERVING 

Mashed Potatoes. Cold Slaw. 

Boston Brown Bread. Rye Bread. 

Pumpkin Pie, Apple Pie, Cheese. Thanksgiving Pudding 

Fruit. Cider Cup. 

CHRISTMAS DINNER 

Heap on more wood! the wind is chill; 

But let it whistle as it will, 

We'll keep our Christmas merry still. 

— Sir Walter Scott, 

MENU 

Consomme with Chestnut Timbales and Turnip Balls. 

Fillets of Flounder, with Blanched Oysters, 

HoUandaise Sauce. Potato Balls. Hothouse Cucumbers 

Young Goose Roasted. 

ChantiUy Apple Sauce with Horseradish. 

Celery, with Brown Sauce. 

Tomato Punch. 

Roast Duck. 

Orange and Endive Salad. 

Plum Pudding, Brandy Sauce. Mince Pie. 

Caramel Ice Cream. 
Black Coffee. Cheese Bouch^es. 

COLONIAL TEA 

Colonial colors, buff and blue, or National colors, red, white and blue 

Blue china with yellow daffodils 

or 

Red and white tulips in a blue bowl. 

Oysters. 

(Scalloped or Creamed in cases or shells.) 

Cold Turkey, Cranberry Sauce. 

Celery-and-Hickory Nut Salad. 

Boston Baked Beans Salad, Garnish: 

Tomato Jelly and Celery. 

Individual Pumpkin Pies. 

Blueberry Sherbet (caimed berries). 

Maple Sugar Bonbons. 

Popcorn Balls. 

Salted Peanuts. 



MENUS FOR OCCASIONS 659 



LAWN FETE 

Floral Decorations: Pink Sweet Peas and Mignonette. 

Shrimp and Cucumber Salad, 

Assorted Sandwiches. Rolls. 

Pineapple and Peach Salad, Pineapple Shell, 

Pistachio nuts as garnish. 

Mignonette Parfait. 

Iced Tea. 

EASTER DINNER. (YELLOW COLOR SCHEME) 

"Dafiodils, 
That come before the swallow dares, and takes 
The winds of March with beauty." 

MENU 

Cream of Spinach. Clear Green Turtle Soup. 

Pimolas. 

Brook Trout, Fried, Sauce Tartare. Rye Bread and Butter. 

Sandwiches. 

Potato Croquettes (Egg-shaped), Peas in Cream Sauce in Centre. 

Asparagus in Puff-paste Patties, Egg Yolks. 

Crown of Lamb, Mint Sauce. 

Bernhardt Potatoes. Banana Fritters, Orange Sauce. 

Broiled Squabs or Stall-fed Quail. 

Lettuce and Tomato, Sifted YoUc of Egg. 

French Dressing. 

Cream Chee se, Bar-le-Duc Currants (white). 

Pine apple and Orange Sherbet, Egg Shapes in Spun 

Sugar Nests. 

Assorted Cakes. 

Candied Mint Leaves. Candied Orange Peel. 

Black Coflfee. 

LENTEN LUNCHEON 

Floral Decorations: Valley Lilies and Violets. 

MENU 

Oyster Cocktails, Sprinkled with Chopped Parsley. 

Cream of Spinach. 

Broiled Baltimore Shad, Roe Sauce. 



66o PRACTICAL COOKING AND SERVING 

LENTEN LUNCHEON. (CONTINUED) 

French Fried Potatoes, Cucumbers. 

Lobster Mayonnaise in Casseroles. 

Garnish: Figures cut from Poached white of egg. 

Cheese Straws. Olives. 

Black Coffee. 

WEDDING BREAKFAST. (JUNE) 

She's beautiful, and therefore to be wooed; 
She is a woman, therefore to be won. 

— King Henry VL 

Down on your knees, 
And thank Heaven, fasting, for a good man's love. 

— As You Like It. 

Floral Decorations: White Sweet Peas and Maidenhair Ferns. 

MENU 

Strawberries, au naturel. 

Halibut Palmettes. Hothouse Cucumbers. 

Peas in White Sauce. Rolls. 

Baked Fillets of Chicken-breast, Mushroom Sauce. 

Lettuce and Asparagus Tip Salad, 

Iced Mayonnaise. 

Fruit Ices in Spun Sugar Nests. 

Assorted Cakes. Bonbons. 

Coffee. 



THE END 



INDEX 



Acid, Acetic, 352 

Citric, 352. 

Lactic, 352. 

Muriatic, 352. 

Phosphate, 352. 
Africans or OtheUos, 401. 
Albumen, Cookery of, 7. 
Albuminoids, 4-5. 
Almond Milk for Cumes, etc., 31. 
Almond Wafere, 415. 
Almonds, etc., Blanching of, 30. 

Chopped, 31. 

Salted, 532. 

Shredded and Pounded, 31. 
Anchovy Croustades, 336. 

Pur&, 33S. 
Anchovies, Plain, 92. 

Preparing for Use, 32. 

Stufied, 92. 
Apple Cake, German, 397. 

Charlotte, 526. 

Croquettes, 526. 

And Cress Salad, 323. 

Fritters, 500. 

Jelly, S44. 

Marmalade, 543. 

Pies, 439. Meringue, 453. 

Sauce, 522,523. 

Tapioca Pudding, 495. 
.\pples a la Manhattan, 526. 

Baked with Almonds, 523. 

Blushing with Orange Sauce, 524 

Blushing Creole Style, 524. 

Duchess Style, 523. 

Fancy Baked, 525. 

Jellied, 525-526. 

Li Syrup, 523. 

To Serve, 517. 

With Rice, 524. 
Apricot Bombfe Glac6, 568 
Apricots, Frozen, 570. 



Asparagus, Baked with Cheese, 379. 

Boiled, Mousseline Sauce, 280. 

en Branches, 279. 

Cookery of, etc., 278. 

With Egg Loaf, 60. 

i. la Indienne, 314. 

Patties, 279. 

Spanish Style, 280. 
Aspic Jelly, 247. 248, 249, 250, 251. 

B 

Baba with Fruit, 395. 

Bacon, 144. 

Bag and Tubes, Pastry or Forcing, 

29. 
Baking-Powder and Formula for, 

355-356. 
Baking-Powder Biscuits, 383. 
Bananas, Baked, 529. 

Compote of, 529. 

Fried, 529. 

With Rice, etc., 528. 
Bass Forcemeat, 8g. 
Bass Fried with Bacon 87. 
Bass, Sea, Buena Vista, 82 
Batter, Fritter, 247. 

for Swedish Timbale Cases, 247. 
Batters and Doughs, Description of, 

351-352- 
Bavarian Cream, Composition of, 

476. 
Apricot, 478. 
Burnt Almond, 481. 
Chocolate, 477. 
Coffee, 477. 

Gateau St. Emilion, 480. 
Ginger, 477- 
Pineapple, 477-478. 
Pistachio, etc., 479. 
Raspberry, 479. 
Rice, 480. 
Vanilla, 476. 



66x 



662 



PRACTICAL COOKING AND SERVING 



Beaa Salad, French, 324- 
Beans, Boston Baked, 144- 

Baked with Sausage, 143. 

Lima, 277. 

String and with Bacon, 277. 
Beating, 18. 
Beef i la Mode, 115. 

Braised, 115. 

Broth, Scotch, 602. 

Cakes, Broiled, 606. 

Cannelon of, 117. 

Chemical Composition, etc., iii. 

Corned, 118. 

Creamed Corned, au Gratin, 224. 

Diagram of a Side of, 112. 

Essence, 601. 

Fillet of, 241. 

Fillet of. Roasted, 116. 

FUlets of, with Marrow, 241. 

Forcemeat, Cutlets of, etc., 237. 

Juice, Broiled, 600. 

Roast, 114. 
BeefsteaJk, Chateaubriand Pierce, 121. 

Description and Names, 119. 

Flank, 122. 

Hamburg, 120. 

To Broil, 120. 
Beef Stew, 117. 

Hungarian, 121. 
Beef, Tenderloin Cutlets of, 114. 
Beef Tenderloin, Grenadins of, 242. 

With Juice, 606. 

Minions of, 242. 
Dumas, 242. 
With Chestnuts, 243. 

Noisettes of, 243. 

Paupiettes of, 243. 

Supr&ne of, 238. 
Beef Tea, 601-602 
Beef Tongue, Boiled, 119. 

In Jelly, 252. 
Belgian Hare, 165, 168, 169. 
Beets, Cooking of, 276. 
Beverages, 39. 
Biscuit, Baking-Powder, 383. 

Finger, with Pistachio, 401. 

Glacfi, 572. 

Maryland Beaten, 378. 

Naples, 401. 

Oatmeal, 373. 

Tortoni, 575. 
Bisque of Lobster, 189. 
Bisque of Oyster, 189. 



Bisque, Mock, 190. 
Bisques, Derivation, etc., t88. 
Blackberry Sponge, 527. 
Blanching Almonds and Nuts, 3a 

Fresh Vegetables, 28. 

Macaroni, 304. 

Rice, 27. 
Blanc Mange, 471. 

Prunes, 475. 

Sea Moss Farine, 606. 
Boiling, 15. 
Bombs, Glacf, 570. 
Bomb6 Glac6, Combinations for, 571. 
Boning, 20. 

Boning Poultry and Birds, 152-153. 
Boston Cream Cakes, 418. 
Bouillon, 179. 
Bouquet, Kitchen, 22. 
Bow Knots, 420. 
Braising, 16. 
Bread, Baking, 366. 

Braids, 372. 

Brown, Boston, 381. 

Caraway Seed, 369. 

Care of, after Baking, 366. 

English Saffron Loaf, 370. 

Entire Wheat or Graham, 368. 

Five Hovir, 369. 

Flour, When to Use, 361. 

Flour, How to Distinguish, 361. 

French, 368. 

General Directions for, 363. 

Gluten, 370. 

Ingredients of, 360. 

Milk, 367. 
and Water, 367. 
Virginia Batter, 379. 

Proportions of Ingredients ia 
363- 

Pulled, 374. 

Rye, 369. 

Sticks, 371. 

Sponge, 367. 

Swedish, 369. 

UtensUs for, 364. 

Virginia Spoon Com, 379. 

What is Good, 359. 
Breakfasts and Luncheons, ForiQtV 

649. 
Brioche, 393. 

Coffee Rolls from, 393. 

St. Mark, 394. 

With Head, 394. 



INDEX 



663 



Broiling, 11. 
Broiling Pan, 11. 

To Bread for, 24. 
Brook Trout, Broiled, 87. 

In Paper Cases, 89. 
Broth, Chicken, Veal, etc., 602. 

Mutton, 602. 

Scotch Beef, 602. 

Standard Fish, 178. 

Standard Formula for, 178. 
Brownies, 412. 

Brussels Sprouts with Butter, 273. 
Buns, Bath, 396. 

Brioche, 394. 

Easter or Hot Cross, 373. 
Butter, Anchovy, 219. 

Black (Beurree Noir), 220 

Clarified, 220. 

Green, 219. 

Lobster, 219. 
Maltre d'Hdtel, 219. 
Butters, Fancy, 339. 



Cabbage, Cookery of, 274. 

Stuffed, 274. 
Cake, Almond, 410. 

Angel, 400. 

Baking, 392. 

Blueberry Tea, 383. 

Boiled Sponge, 399. 

Breakfast Com, 379. 

Chocolate Sponge, 400. 

Cocoanut, 400. 

Cocoanut Pound, 413. 

Delicate, 410. 

Devil's Foiad, 407. 

Elegant, 408. 

Entire Wheat Fruit, 404. 

Formula for Sponge, 398. 

Fruit, Aunt Rdiecca, 404. 

Fruit, Mrs. Sewall, 405. 

Fruit, Dr. Langworthy, 409. 

Fruit (White), 403. 

German Apple, 397. 

German Coffee, 372-373. 

Golden, 410. 

Hartford Election, 396. 

Hickory Nut, 406. 

Ice Cream, 408, 409. 

Icings and Decorations, 42(2. 

V'sal Sponge, 399, 



Cake — ConUmted. 
Imperial, 405. 
Johnny, 378. 
Lady Baltimore, 407. 
Lemon, 408. 
Lincoln, 405. 
Loaf, 404. 
Lord Baltimore, 410. 
Made with Yeast, 391. 
Making, Materials for, 390. 

Preliminaries to, 388-389. 

Utensils for, 390. 
Mixing, Butter, 392. 

Sponge, 391. 
Mocha, 400. 
Moist Chocolate, 442. 
Newport, 407 
Nut and Raisin, 406. 
Grange, 402. 
ans. Lining and Filling, 390- 

391- 
Pineapple, 411. 
Pistachio, 411. 
Plain, 408. 

Pound, Bell's Prize, 403. 
Pound (by Weight and Measure), 

403- 
Sponge, 398-399- 

With Water, 402. 
Spider Com, 380. 
St. Honors, 501. 
Stockbridge, 380. 
Sunshine, 399- 
Swedish Meringue, 402. 
Swedish Sponge, 403 
Thanksgiving, 396. 
Wedding, 404. 
White, 406. 
Cakes, Berlin Pan, 397- 
Boston Cream, 453. 
Bread Crumb Griddle, 384. 
Buckwheat, 384. 
Cormneal and Rice, 384. 
Finger Biscuit with Pistachios, 

401. 
Flannel, 385. 
French Cream, 418. 
German Coffee, 372-373. 
Kornlet Griddle, 385. 
Lady Fingers, 401. 
Lemon Queen, 411. 
Mocha, 401. 
Molasses Drop, 411. 



664 



PRACTICAL COOKING AND SERVING 



Cakes — ContUuied. 

Nut, 412. 

Othellos or Africans, 410. 

Regarding, 387-388. 

Rice Griddle, 386. 

Small Chocolate, 412. 
Calf's Head, Brains, etc., 139. 

Liver, Broiled, 137. 

Fried, :37. 

Loaf, 137. 

Canapes, Indian Style, 335. 

Lobster, 335. 
Candy, Cocoanut Cream, 590. 

Maple Cream, 589. 

Molasses, 589. 

Peanut Brittle, 589. 

Vanilla Sugar, 589. 
Candied Chestnuts (Marrons Glacfo), 

592- 
Orange or Lemon Peel, 592. 
Candied Pansies, Mint Leaves 

etc., 593. 
Violets, 592. 
Canning, 537. 
Canned Strawberries, 544. 
Caramel for Flavoring, Lining, etc. 

30- 
Caramel Sauce, $i\, 512 
Caramels, 587-588. 

Chocolate, 587. 

Vanilla, 588. 
Carameled Nuts, 591. 
Carbohydrates, Where Found, 4. 
Carbonates, 354. 

Carbon Dioxide, 352, 353, 354, 362 
Carrots, 285. 
Catsup, Grape, 549. 

Mushroom, 550. 

Tomato, 549. 
Cauliflower a U Huntington, 272. 

And Beet Salad, 324. 

Au Gratin in Cheese Shell, 272. 

Composition, 258. 

Cookery of, 272. 

Fried, 273. 

With Mushrooms, 273. 
Caviare Croustades, 337. 

In Swedish Cases, 336. 

With Eggs and Cucumbers, 336. 
Celery and Cheese au Gratin, 282. 
Celery and Cheese Salad, 325. 
Celery, Cress and Wahiut Salad, 
3^6. 



Celery — Continued. 

English Walnut and Pimento 
Salad, 325. 

Creamed in Cheese Shell, 282. 

Jelly, 326. 

To Fringe, 32. 

With Sauce, 282. 
Cereab, Breakfast, 296. 

Cooking and Serving, 297. 

In Omelets, 299. 
Chafing Dish Cookery and Service, 307. 

Oysters for, 310. 

Creamed Dishes for, 310. 

Fuel for, 308. 
Charlottes, Cold, 480. 
Charlotte Russe, Banana Cantaloupe, 
482. 

Burnt Almond, 481. 

Chestnut, 484. 

Chocolate, 482. 

Filling, 483, 571. 

Gateau St. Emilion, 480. 

Individual Maple, 483. 

Strawberry, 481. 

Salpicon of Fruit, 482. 
Chartreuse of Chestnuts, 484. 

Salmon, 93. 
Chateaubriand k la Pierce, 121. 
Chaudfroid, Chicken Supr&ne 256. 

Lamb Chops, 256. 

Sauce, 209. 

Sweetbread, 257. 

Tongue, with Jelly, 255. 
Chaudfroids, Description of, 255. 
Cheese Balls, 349. 

Bouchfe, 451. 

Cakes, 345. 

Cottage, 345. 

Composition of, etc., 343-344. 

Cream, 346. 

Croquettee, 349. 

Croutons and Bread, 347. 

Dish, Italiaji, 348. 

In Shells, 547. 

Moulded with Nuts, Neuf- 
chatel, 346. 

Rings, 348. 

And Celery Salad, 325. 

Sandwiches, 341. 

Service of, 344. 

Souffle, 347. 

Straws, 349. 

Timbales, 347. 



INDEX 



665 



Cherries with Crusts, sag. 
Chestnut Croquettes, 492. 
Custard, 465. 
Preserves, Vanilla, 540. 
StTiffing, 156. 
Chestnuts, Blanching, etc., 51. 
Chartreuse of, 484. 
Devilled, 315. 
_ Pur& of, with Cream, 486. 
Chicken k la Bonne Fenune, 164. 
And Sweetbread Croquettes, 227. 
Boiled Poulette Sauce 139- 
Boiled with Tomato Sauce, 164. 
Broiled with Sweet Potatoes, 

161. 
Casserole of, 162. 
Chaudfroid of, 256. 
Cold Souf3£ of, 254. 
Cream Forcemeat, 232, 233. 

of, Glacfi, 254. 
Creamed with Potatoes and Pep- 

pers, 313. 
Creole, 162. 
Curry of, 165. 
Custard, 604. 
Cutlets, Parker House Style, 

229. 
Cutlets with Salad, 251. 
Essence of, 211. 
Fillets, Plain, 245. 

In Aspic, 606. 

With Forcemeat, 245. 
Mushrooms, 246. 
Tongue, 24s. 
Forcemeat with Sauce, 233. 
Fricassee, 163. 
Fried in Batter, 246. 
Galantine of, 159. 
Legs as Cutlets, 236. 
Loaf, 136. 
Pressed, 136. 
Purfe for Garnish, 255. 
Rfechaufffe with Pilaf, 223. 
Salad in Rolls, 327. 
Saut£, 161-162. 

With Cauliflower, 162. 
SoufflS, 231. 
Supreme of, 239. 
Timbales, 235, 239- 
Victoria, 225. 
Chocolate Bombe with Fruit, 567. 
Cakes, Small, 412. 
Chestnuts, 586. 



Chocolate — Continued. 

Composition, etc., of, 45. 

Custard, Snow Eggs, 462. 

Custard Pudding, 464. 

Eclairs, 418. 

Mints, 586. 

Puffs, 419. 

Recipe for, as Drink, 47. 

Souffl6, 315. 

In Puddings, Use of, 456. 
Chou Paste, 417. 
Chowder, Clam, 192. 

Corn, 193. 

Fish, Boston Style, 191. 
Coney Island Style, 192. 
English Style, 192. 
Chowders, Derivation of Term, 191. 
Chutney, Apple, 549. 
Clam Broth, J02. 
Clams, Cod^tail of, 97, 333. 

Creamed, 102. 

Regarding, 96, 332. 

Relishes, 332. 
Claret Cup, 53. 

Punch, Hot, S3 
Cocoa, Breakfast, 47. 

Composition, etc., 43. , 

Frapp6, 569. 

To Serve, i2S>46. 
Codfish Balls, 91. 

Boiled, 78. 

Boned and Baked, 84. 

Fried, 87. 

Picked Up, 91. 
Coffee, Boiled, 44. 

Bread, 600. 

Cake, 372, 373. 

Composition, etc, of, 43. 

Filtered, 45. 

Jelly, 468. 

Sauce, 365. 
Collagen, 5. 
Compote of Bananas, 529. 

Chestnuts, 531. 

Figs, S3Q. 

Stuffed Pears, 527. 
Confections, Fig and Nuts, 39°- 
Cookies, 416. 

Peanut, 413. 

Molasses Umdy, 416. 
Cooking, Elementary Processes in, 
10. 

Utensils, Care of, 613-613. 



666 



PRACTICAL COOKING AND SERVING 



Consommfi, 179. 

Printanier, 178. 
Com, 283. 

Croquettes, 284.- 

Custard, 284. 

Fritters, 284. 

Meal Relish, 298. 
Cover, The, 643. 
Crabs, 104. 

a la Creole, 313. 

Soft Shelled, Broiled, 107. 
Fried, 107. 
Saut6, 107. 
Cranberry Jelly, $30. 
Cranberry Sauce, 530. 
Cream, Beating of, 28. 
Cream Cheese for Bouchtes, 431. 

Devonshire, 487. 

English, 461. 

Forcemeat, Chicken, 232. 

Hamburg, 474. 

Mock, 506. 

White Mountain, 427. 
Cream, Ice, Burnt Almond, 560. 

Caramel, 560. 

Chocolate, 559. 

CofEee, 561. 

Fig, 561. 

Ginger, 561. 

In Muskmelon, $22. 

Junket, 558. 

Neapolitan, SS4, 558 

Peach, 559,566. 

Philadelphia, 553. 

Pineapple, 569. 

Pistachio, 560. 

Strawberry, 560. 

Tutti-Frutti, 562. 

Vanilla, 558. 

With Nuts, etc., s6i. 
Starch, 558. 
Cream Ices, Fruit, 559. 
Cream of Chicken Glac6, 254. 
Cream of Tartar, 352, 354, 355. 
Cream, Orange, 472. 

Roll, Vienna, 451. 

Sauce, Burnt, 512. 

Scones, 383. 

St. Honord, 462. 

Tapioca, 495. 

White Mountain, 427. 
Creamed Chicken, Peppers, etc., 313. 

Curried Shad Roe, 311. 



Croquette Mixture, to Shape, 24. 
Croquettes, Apple, 526. 

Cheese, 349. 

Chestnut, 492. 

Chicken and Sweetbread, 227. 

Egg or Easter, 60. 

Kentucky Corn, 284. 

Macaroni, Mushroom, etc., 228, 

Mushroom, 292. 

Potato, 265. 

Sweet, and Almond, 267. 

Pork, German Style, 143. 

Rice with Raspberries, 528. 

Rice, Plain and Savory, 302, 

303- 

Sweet Rice, 304. 

Veal, 228. 
Croustades, Anchovy, 316. 

Bread, 26. 

Caviare, 337. 

Pastry, 26. 

pate de foie gras in, 337. 

Potato, 27. 

Rice, 27. 
Croutons, Bread and Cheese, 347. 

For Soup and Garnishing, 26. 

Orange, 450. 

Puff Paste, 198. 

Ham, 146. 
Crown Roast of Lamb, 126. 
Currantade, 52. 
Currant Jelly, 544. 
Currants, Bottled, 541. 

Spiced, 549. 
Curry of Duck, 314. 

Macaroni, 313. 
Custard, Beef Tea, 604. 

Boiled, 460 

Chestnut, 465. 

Renvers6e, 465. 

Chicken, 604. 

Chocolate, 464. 

Chocolate, with Snow Eggs, 462 

Cup, 463. 

English Cream, 461. 

Firm, 459. 

Fried, 465. 

Maple, 464. 

Pineapple, 465. 

Renvers^, 464. 

Savory, 651, 604; 

St. Honorfe Cream, 462. 
Cutting and Folding, 19. 



INDEX 



667 



D 



Dates with Cream, Stufied, 531. 
Daubing, 20. 
Devonshire Cream, 487. 
Digestion, Conditions for Stomach. 
627. 

Gastric, 627. 

Intestinal, 626, 627. 

Physiology of, 625. 

Of Starch, 7, 626, 62g. 
Dinner, Announcement of, 639. 

Styles of Serving, 640. 

The Home, 650. 
Dinner Party, Invitation to, 638. 
Hour and Length of, 639. 
Dinners, Little, 649. 
Dough, Description of, 331. 

Kneading, 364. 

Shaping Bread, 366. 
Doughnuts, 420. 

Raised, 397. 

Yeast, 397. 
Duck, Curry of, 314. 

Salad, 331. 

Salmi of, 314. 
Ducks, Canvas Back, etc., 165. 

Domestic, Roasted, 158. 

Stufl&ng for, 158. 



Eclairs, Chocolate, 418. 

Queen, 418. 
Egg and Bread Crumb, 23, 24. 
Egg and Cress Salad, 324. 

Endive Salad, 325. 

And gruel, 604. 

Wine, 605. 

Tomato Jelly Salad, 326. 

Croquettes, 60. 

Loaf with Asparagus, 60. 

Nogg, SI, 603. 
Eggplant, 299. 
Egg Soufflfi, 603. 
Eggs k la Buckingham, 69. 

i la Farisienne, 67. 

Beating of, 30. 

Benedict, 63. 

Beauregard, 39. 

Boiled, 58. 

Composition, 35. 

Curious Ways of Cooking, 57. 



Eggs — Continued. 
Fried, 68. 
Hard Boiled, Bechamel, 39. 

With Noodles, etc, 62. 
How to Add to Soups, etc., 22. 

Keep as "Left Over," 37. 

Preserve, 36. 

Tell Whether Fresh, 36. 
Lowell style, 69. 
Moulded in Pimentos, 67. 
Poached, 62. 
Poached, Countess, 64. 

Creole Style, 63. 

French Style, 63. 

Hygienic Style, 63. 

In Consommfe, 64. 

In Anchovy Toast, 64. 

Sicilian Style, 63. 

Celery, 64. 

With Salmon, 64. 
Spinach, 64. 
Salpicon of, in Casseroles, 63. 
Scrambled, 68. 

With Anchovies, etc., 312. 

With Cheese, 312. 

With Tomatoes, 343, 68, 
3x2. 
Shirred au Miroir, 66. 

In Tomatoes, 66. 

With Forcemeat, 67. 
Potato, 67. 
Snow, 474. 

Soft Boiled with Tomatoes, 39. 
Stuffed and Fried, 61. 

au Gratin, 60. 

For Picnics, 61. 

With Salad, 61. 
Sur Le Plat, 66. 
Vermicelli, 60. 
With Brown Butter, 68. 
Entries, Divisions of, 222. 
Items Concerning, 221. 
Utensils for Making, 222. 



Fanchonettes, Lemon, 441. 

Pineapple, 441. 

Pumpkin, 442. 
Fat, Care of, 14. 

For Frying, etc., 23. 

Tests for Hot, 13. 
Fats, Where Found, 4. 



668 



PRACTICAL CCX)KING AND SERVING 



Fermentation, Alcoholic, 362. 

Artifidal, 354- 

Spontaneous, 351- 
Figs, Stewed, s^o- 

With Jelly and Cream, 47i- 
Filling, Charlotte Russe, 571,483- 

Fig, 431- 

Lemon or Orange, 432. 

Pineapple, 431. 
Finnan Haddie Boiled, 90. 

Delmonico, 90. 
Fire, Building of, 2. 

For Cake Making, 389,392. 
Fish & la CrJme, 94. 

Baking of, 80. 

Boiling of, 78. 

Broiling of, 79. 

Cakes, 93. 

Chemical Composition, 73. 

Chops, 93. 

Cream Forcemeat, 233. 

Forcemeat, Shells of, 236. 

Fried, 80. 

In Court Bouillon, 79. 

In Curry Sauce, 94. 

In Season, 612. 

Preparation for Cooking, 76. 

Saut6, 80. 

Stuf&ng, 80, 84. 

Timbales, 236. 

To Bread for Frying, 24. 

To Determine Freslmess, 76, 

To Skin and Bone, 77. 

Trussing of, 80. 

Turbot, 94. 
Flageolet, 277. 

Flavoring Sweet Dishes, 456. 
Flirts, Aunt Sallie's, 497. 
Floating Island, 463. 
Flounder, Stuffed with Forcemeat, 88. 

Stuffed with Potato, 88. 

With Peas, 85. 
Fondant, 583. 

Maple, 587. 

Working and Using, 584, 585. 

Tutti-Frutti, 586. 
Food, Definition of, 1. 

In Asthma, 596. 

Chronic Rheumatism, S97 
Diabetes, 595. 
Malaria, 598. 
Scurvy, 598. 
Season, 611. 



Food — Continued. 

In Tuberculosis, 598- 
Typhoid Fever, S97- 

Effect of Unsuitable, 628. 

Object in Cooking, 2. 

Office in Body, 618. 

Principles, The Five, 3. 
Forcemeat, Bass, 89, 233. 

Chicken Cream, 232. 
Sauce, 233. 

Composition and Use, 232. 

Cutlets of Beef, 237. 

Fillets of Chicken, etc., 245. 

Fish Cream, 233. 

For Mousse, 240. 

With Mushrooms, Game, 237. 

Quenelle, 233. 

Styles of Moulding, 235. 

To Mould and Cook, 234. 
Fowl, For Broiling, To Dress, 150, 

For Fricassee, To Dress, 131. 

Steamed, 164. 

To Clean and Draw, 149. 
Frapp£, Cantaloupe, 57°- 

Cocoa, 569. 

Coffee, 570. 

Cranberry, S70- 

Strawberry Souffl6, 577. 
Frappfe, 569. 
French Dressing, 320. 
Fritter Batter, 246, 499. 
Timbale cases, 247. 
Fritters, Apple, soa 

Com, 284. 

Golden Ball, 500. 

Parsnip, 283. 
Frog's Legs, 108. 

Fried, 109. 

Sautfi, no. 

And in Sauce, no. 
Frozen Desserts, Regarding, 531. 
Fniit Centrepiece, 522. 

Composition, etc., 514- 

Cup, 569. 

Flavors, To Bring Out, 466. 

In Season, 612. 

Preservation of, 534. 

Serving of Fresh, 516-322. 

Sherbets, 579. 

Time to Eat, 515. 
Frying, 12. 

Utensils for, 13. 
Fudge, 588. 



INDEX 



669 



Galantine of Chicken or Turkey, 159. 
Garnishes for Fowl, etc., 632. 

Game, 632. 

Soup, 194-198. 

Sweet Dishes, 457. 
Garnishing, 630. 
Gelatine, How to Use, 455. 

Proportion to Liquid, 466. 
German Crisps, 415,421. 

Rings, 415. 
Gingerbread, Fairy, 414. 

New York, 409. 

Rochester, 409. 
Ginger Nuts, English, 414. 
Ginger Snaps, 416. 
Glaze for Bread and Rolls, 32. 

Meat, etc., 212. 
Gluten in Wheat, 360. 
Gnocchi i. la Romaine, 348. 

au Gratin, 298. 
Golden Buck, 350. 
Goose, Young Domestic, is?- 
Grape Catsup, 549. 

Fruit, Service of, 514, 516, 518. 

Juice, 531. 

Preserves, 538. 

Sponge, 473. 

Wine, S3. 
Grouse, Broiled, 167. 

Roasted, 166. 
Gruel and Egg (Caudle), 604. 

Oatmeal, 600. 

Flour and Meal, 600. 
Gumbo Soup, 190. 
Grapefruit Cocktail, 334. 

H 

Haddock, etc.. Baked, 83. 

And Oysters, Matelote, 82. 
Halibut and Lobster Hollandaise, 311. 
Halibut, Baked, 83. 

Steaks and Oysters, 83. 
Turbans with Forcemeat, 86. 
Lobster, 90. 
Potato Balls, 85. 
Turbans, Tomato Sauce, 85. 
Halibut, Boiled, 81. 
Ham and Bacon, To Cure, 141. 
Egg Sandwiches, 340. 
Baked with Cider, 145. 
Boiled, 145. 



Ham — Continued. 

Broiled, 146. 

Cooked in Casserole, 145. 

Croutons, 146. 

Sandwiches, Hot, 314. 

Timbales, 253. 
Hare, Belgian, 168. 

Curry of, 165. 
In Casserole, 169. 
Hearts, Strawberry, 452. 
Heat Indicator, 34. 
Herbs, Fine Cooked, 21. 
Hermits, 417. 
Hominy Balls, 299. 
Hors d'CEuvres, 331. 
Horseradish Dressing, 330. 

With Apple Sauce, 220. 
Hospitality and Entertaining, 635. 



Ice a Cake, To, 429. 

Ice with Royal Icing, To, 430. 

Ices, Cream, 553. 

Ices, Individual, 555. 

Freezing and Moulding, 556. 

Serving, SS7, 579- 

Water, 555. 
Icing, Ahnond, 426. 

Boiled Chocolate, 428. 
Maple, 428. 
Pineapple. 428. 

Butter, 423. 

Caramel, 427. 

Chocolate with Syrup, 425- 

Cooked, 427 

Fondant, 429. 

Ice Cream or Soft, 425. 

Marshmallow, 429. 

Materials for, 423. 

Ornamental, 425, 432. 

Piping with Ornamental, 430. 

Utensils for, 423. 

Water, 424. 

Chocolate, 424. 

White Mountain Cream, 427. 

Yellow, 424. 



Jam, Blackberry or Strawberry, 542 

Rhubarb, 542. 
Jams, 536. 



670 



PRACTICAL COOKING AND SERVING 



Jelly, Aspic, 247-251- 

Asparagus Salad in, 321. 
Boned Quail in, 253. 
Timbales of Ham in, 253. 
Lobster in, 273. 
Tongue in, 252. 
Canned Peach, 470. 
Celery, 326. 
Coffee, 468. 
Cranberry, 530. 
Currant, etc., 544. 
Figs and Cream with, 471. 
Ivory, 470. 
Lemon 467. 
Orange, 468, 

With Orange Sections, 468. 
Rhubarb, 469. 

And Banana Cream, 469. 
Sauterae, 468. 
Sherry with Raisins, 470. 
Strawberry, 470. 
Tomato, 251. 

With Nut Salad, 326. 
Egg Salad, 326. 
Wine, 468. 
Jellies, Regarding, 466, 536. 
Double Moulding of, 467. 
Uses of Fruit and Wine, 467. 
Jellied and Pickled Feet, 146. 

Apples, 523-526. 
Jumble's, Soft, 416. 
Junket, Devonshire, 487. 
Egg with Cream, 607. 
Plain, 487. 

Plain Variations of, 487. 
With Wine, 607. 

K 

Komlet, Griddle Cakes, 385. 
Koumiss, 50. 
Kromeskjes 229. 



Lady Fingers, 401 
Lady Locks, 450. 
Lamb Chops, Bussy, 130. 

Catalane, 130. 

Chaudfroid of, 256. 
Lamb, Crown Roast of, 126. 

Kidney Stew of, 131. 

Loin, Best End of, 244, 

Jloast, 128, 



Larding, 30. 

Leaven, 353. 

Leavened Bread, Early Use of, 358. 

Leavening Agents, Proportions, 356. 

Lemon Cake, 408. 

Custard Pie, 442. 

Fanchonettes, 441. 

Jelly, 467. 

Queens, 411. 

Sauce, 507, sop- 
Lemons, Preparing for Use, 31. 
Lemonade, 51. 

Irish Moss, 600. 

Pineapple, 52. 
Lobster, Broiled Live, 107 

CanapSs, 335. 

Cocktail of, 334. 

Creamed, 107. 

Creole Style, 311. 

Curry of, 105. 

Cutlets, 106. 

Rushmore, 106. 

Salad, 331. 

Sandwiches, 340. 

Souffle, 231. 

Stuffed, Narragansett Pier, 105. 

Timbales, Jellied, 253. 
Lobsters, Boiling, etc., 103, 104. 

Regarding, 102. 

M 

Macaroni and Cheese «.u Gratin, 306. 

Baked, 306. 

Moulded, 305. 

And Tomatoes, 306. 
Mushrooms, 293. 

Curry of, 313. 

Italienne, 305. 

Kidneys, etc., 294. 

Milanesi, 304. 

Ragout, 237. 

Regarding, 304. 

With Welsh Rabbit, 306. 
Macedoine of Fruit and Nuts, 469. 
Mackerel, Broiled, 86. 

Salt, Broiled, 92. 
Marguerites, 421. 
Marinade, Cooked, 25. 

Uncooked, 26. 
Marketing, 609-610. 
Marmalade, Jams, Butters, 544 
" Amber, 543. 



INDEX 



671 



Marmalade, Apple, etc., 543. 

Orange, 543. 

Pineapple, 542. 

Rhubarb, 542. 
Matelote of Haddock and Oysters, 82. 
Mayonnaise Dressing, 214. 
Measuring, 18. 
Melons, To Serve, 520,521. 
Menu, Balanced, Family of Six, 622. 
Referring to, 619-621. 

Christmas, 658. 

Colonial Tea, 658. 

Easter Dinner, 659. 

Home Dinner, 652. 

Lawn FSte, 659. 

Lenten Luncheon, 659. 

Representative Dinner, 648. 

Thanksgiving Dinner, 657. 

The Dinner, 647. 

Wedding Breakfast, 660. 
Meringue for Baked Alaska, 563. 
Meringue, Italian, 427. 

Pie and Pudding, 512. 

Swedish, 402. 
Meringues, 419. 

Mushroom, 420. 

With Strawberries, 420. 
Milk, Care of, 48, 610. 

Composition, etc., 47. 

Peptonized, 603-604. 

Sterilized and Pasteurized, 49. 
Milling Methods, 361. 
Mineral Matter, Where Found, 4. 
Mirepoix, 212. 
Mirlitons, 451. 
Mould, Lining with Lady Fingers, 

457- 
Moulding in Aspic, 249. 

Double, 250. 
Mousse, 554, S7S- 

Or Mousseline, 240. 

Chestnut, 576. 

Forcemeat for, 240. 

Peach, etc., 576. 

Pineapple and Jelly, 576. 

Quail, 240. 
Muflais, Blueberry, 382. 

Commeal 381. 

Date, 382. 

English, 375. 

Entire Wheat, 381. 

General Rule for, 381. 

Twin Mountain, 382. 



Mushrooms, AgaricusCampe3tr&,289. 
4 la Algonquin, 291. 
Aminita, 289. 
Boleti with Bacon, 293. 
Cepes a la Dumas, 294. 
Clavaria with Cheese, 293. 
Cooked under Glass, 292. 
Coprinus Comatus and Oysters, 

293. Cocktail, 333. 
Croquettes, 292. 
Essence of, 211. 
Nutritive Value, etc., 288. 
Preparation to Cook, 289. 
PufiE Ball Stew, 291. 
Russulae h la Bordelaise, 294. 
Scalloped, 290. 
Stewed, 290. 
Stuffing for Pimentos, 295. 

Tomatoes, 294, 286. 
To Keep Temporarily, 290. 
With Calves' Brains, 292. 

Cauliflower, 273. 

Kidneys, 294. 

Macaroni, 293. 
Mutton, Boiled, 127. 
Chops, Broiled, 128. 

Marechale, 130. 

Casserole, 129. 

Pan Broiled, 129. 

Fried, 129. 
Composition, Cuts, etc., 124-125. 
Haricot, 226. 
Leg Roasted, 125. 

Boned and Stuffed, 126. 
Rfichauff6, 314. 

Creole, 224. 

With Macaroni, 226. 
Saddle of, 126. 
Stew, 127. 



Nitrogen, 617. 
Noodles, 195. 



N 



O 



Office of Food Principles, 618. 
Okra, Cooking of, 288. 

Gumbo Soup from Fresh, 190. 

Salad, 324. 

Saut6, Creole Style, 288. 
Olives, Service of, 334, 646 

Stuffed, 334. 



672 



PRACTICAL COOKING AND SERVING 



Omelet, Breakfast Cereal, 299. 

Formula for Three Egg, 70. 

French, 70. 

Mrs. Grant's, 71. 

Orange, 315. 

Pineapple, 504. 

Puffy, 70. 

Rice, 72. 

Rum, SOS- 
Strawberry Jam, S04- 
Omelets, Regarding, 69. 

Starch Foundation, 71. 
Onion Juice, To Extract, 23. 

Souffle, 275. 
Onions, Cooking, 274. 

As Flavoring, 22. 

Stuffed, 274. 
Orangeade, 52. 
Orange Cream, 473. 

Croutons, 450. 

Curd, 450. 

Filling, 432. 

Jelly, 468. 

Marmalade, 543. 

Omelet, 315. 

Pie, 442. 

Sabayon Sauce, 507. 

Sauce, 507, SIX. 

Salad, 329,330. 
Oranges, Serving, 517-518. 
Ox-taUs, Braised, 123. 
Oyster Cocktails, 97, 333. 

Forcemeat Balls, 189. 

Pie, loo. 

Salad in Ice Bowl, 328. 

Souffle, 231. 

Soup, 188. 

Soup, Bisque, 189. 

Stew, 98, 310. 
Oysters, and Macaroni, 99. 

As Relishes, 332,333- 

"^roiled with Bacon, 100. 
With Celery, 98. 
Maltre d'Hdtel, etc., 100. 

Chafing Dish Cookery of, 310. 

Creamed, 98, 310. 

Fried, loi. 

In Batter, 101. 

Opening, 96. 

Scalloped, 100. 

Season of, etc., 95. 

With Cream, 310. 
Brown Sauce, 99. 



Palmettes, 241. 
Panada, Bread, 234. 

Flour, 234. 
Pancakes, Berlin, 397. 
Pancreatic Juice, 626. 
Parfait and Mousse Mixtures, 572, 

Angel, 572. 

Caramel, 573. 

Chocolate, S73- 

Coffee, 573. 

Ginger, 574. 

Grape Juice, 572. 

Maple, 574- 

Mignonette, 574. 

Simshine, 573. 
Parsnip Fritters, 285. 
Parsnips, Cookery of, 285. 
Partridge, Roasted, etc., 167. 
Paste, Chopped, 435. 

Chou, 417. 

Puff, Baking, 447. 

Puff, Making, 445. 
Past^, Classification of, 434. 

Cream, 43^-437- 

Digestion of, 433. 

Flaky, 436. 

Flour, To Distinguish, 361. 

Flour, When to Use, 361. 

Pastry Keeping, 435. 

Materials and Utensils for, 434. 

Plain, 43S. 

Potato, 437. 
Patty Shells, 449. 
Pea Timbales, 283. 
Peas, Cookery of, 283. 
Peach and Rice Meringue, 528. 
Peaches, Pyramid of, 527. 
Pears, Preserved with Ginger, S39- 
Pears, Stuffed, 527. 
Peppermints, 586. 
Pfeffer Nusse, 414. 
Pickle, Green Tomato Sweet, S47- 

French, 547. 

Indian, 546. 

Pears, Peaches, Sweet, etc., S4& 
Pickled Cauliflower, 547. 

Limes, Sweet, 548. 
Pickles, Concerning, 545. 

Cucumber, Sweet, 548. 

GUve Oil, 548. 

Sour, 545- 



INDEX 



673 



Pie, Apple, 43c). 

Ethenal, 439. 

Mother's, 439. 
Berry, 444. 
Cranberry, 440. 
Custard, 443. 
Date, 444. 

Fig, 443- 

Green Tomato, 440. 

Lemon Custard, 442. 

Making, 437. 

Mince, 444. Meringue, 453. 

Mock Cherry, 440. 

One Crust, 438. 

Orange, 442. 

Pineapple, 441. 

Prune, 440. 

Pumpkin, 442. 

Rhubarb, 443. 

Squash, 443. 
Pigeons, Casserole Style, 166. 

Stewed in Broth, 166. 
Pilaf, Turkish, 302. 
Pimentos, Eggs Moulded in, 67. 

Stuffed, 295. 

Marmakde, 542. 
Pineapple and Orange, Frozen, 519- 

Omelet, 504- 

Shredded, 519- 
Pineapples, Digestive Properties, 

518. 
Planked Shad, etc., 86. 
Polenta, 299. 

Sauce for, 300. 
Popovers, 378. 
Pork Chops, 142 

Composition Cuts, etc., 140-141. 

Croquettes, 143. 

Crown of, 142. 

Salt, Country Style, 144. 

In Boston Baked Beans, 
144- 

Sausagc with Apple Sauce, 143. 

Sausage (Pork) with Beans, 143. 

Tenderloin, 142. 

Tenderloins, Stuffed, 147. 
Potato and Almond Croquettes, 

267; 
Potato Cakes, 264. 

Croquettes and Boulettes, 265. 

Nests, 269. 

Roses, 264. 

Turnips and Carrot Balls, 266. 



Potatoes k la Maitre d'Hdtel, 266. 

Anna, 266, 

Baked, 263. 

Half Shell, 266. 
With Cheese, 269. 

Boiled, 263. 

Broiled, 268. 

Delmonico, 268. 

Delmonico Cream Roll, 268. 

Duchess, 264. 

Escalloped, 265. 

Franconia, 265. 

French Fried, 270. 

Hashed Brown, 269. 

Hashed White, 269. 

Imitation New, 262. 

Mashed, 264. 

Mashed Fish Service, 264, 270. 

Parisian, 267. 

Perfect, 262. 

Riced, 263. 
Potatoes, Saratoga, 268. 
Potatoes, Scalloped with Cheese, 269. 

Syracuse Hot Salt, 266. 

Warmed in Milk, 268. 

Sweet, Candied, 267. 

Sweet, Southern Style, 267. 
Poultry, etc.. Boning of, 152-153- 

Composition, 148. 

Filleting, 154. 

Trussing for Roasting, 153. 

Roasting, 154. 

Stuffing, 153. 

Season, 613. 
Preserves, Berry, 538. 

Citron or Watermelon, S40- 

Fig and Rhubarb, 542. 

General Rule for, 536. 

Grapes, 538. 

Quince and Sweet Apple, 539. 

Strawberry, 539-540. 

Strawbeny-Tomato, 541. 

Vanilla Chestnut, 540. 
Pudding, Apple and Broivn Bread. 

493- 
Apple Tapioca, 495. 
Berry, Steamed, 492. 
Brown Betty, 489. 
Cabinet, 492. 
Carrot, 495. 
Castellane, 472. 
Cherry, 494. 
Cherry Souffld, 502, 



674 



PRACTICAL COOKING AND SERVING 



Pudding — Continued. 

Chocolate Custard, 464. 

Christmas Plum, 491. 

Cottage, 499. 

Cracker Raisin, 489. 

Cuban, 490. 

Cumberland, 493. 

Easter, 475. 

English, 494. 

Frozen, 555. 

Fruit, 494. 

Glac6, Plum, 562. 

Glac6, Rice, 577. 

Indian, Baked, 497. 

Indian Mock, 489. 

Indian ?uet, 497. 

Indian Tapioca, 497. 

Nesselrode, 562. 

Rebecca, 475. 

Rice, 476. 

Rice and Milk Baked, 496. 

Roman, 240. 

Sabayon, 578. 

Souffl6, SOI- 

Sponge Batter, 503- 

St. Davids, 490. 

Sweet Potato, 492. 

Tapioca Fruit, 496. 
Custard, 496. 

Thanksgiving, 489. 

Tipsy, 463. 

Tomato and Cheese, 287. 

Vitos, 491. 

Yorkshire, 115. 
Puddings, Cooking of Steamed, 488. 

Foundation of, 454. 

Queen of, 490. 
Puffs, Chocolate, 419. 

Commeal, 382. 

Grerman, 499. 
Pufiets, Wheat, 382. 
Punch, Frozen, 578. 

Fruit, 52. 

Grape, 54. 

Hot Claret, 53. 

Mint, 54. 

Tea, 54,578. 

Tomato, 579. 
Purfie, Banana, 511. 

Beans and Tomato, 185. 

Chicken, 183. 

Chestnut, 185. 

Jerusalem, Artichoke, 183. 



PurSe — Continued. 

Lentil, Split Pea, etc., 184. 

Potato, 184. 
Purees, Service of, etc., 182. 
I'yramid of Peaches, 527. 



Quail Mousseline, 240. 
Quails, Boned in Jelly, 253. 

Roasted, 167. 

Roasted in Grape Leaves, 168. 
Queens, Lemon, 411. 

Vienna, 413. 
Quenelles, 233. 



Rabbit, Cheese and Tomato, 350 

Welsh, 350. 
Rabbits, Regarding, 309. 
Range, The Kitchen, 2. 
Raspberry Shrub, 53. 
Raspberries with Rice Croquettes, 

528- 
Refrigerator, Care of, 614. 
Regularity in Feeding, 595. 
Rhubarb, Baked, 531. 

Marmalade, 542. 

Pie, 443. 

Preserved with Figs, 542. 
Rice, Boiled, 301. 

Cooking of, 300. 

Creole Style, 303. 

Croquettes, Plain, 303. 
Savory, 302. 
Sweet, 304. 

Hot, for Fruit Compotes, 303. 

Milanaise Fashion, 303. 

Regarding, 300. 

Savory, 301. 

With Bacon, 302. 

With Parsley, 303. 
Risotto, 301. 
Rissoles, 229. 
Roasting, 10. 
Roll, Vienna Cream, 451. 
Rolls, Coffee Brioche, 393. 

Crescents, 371. 

Parker House, 370. 

Rasped, 375. 

Salad or Luncheon, 371. 

Swedish, 372, 383. 



INDEX 



675 



Rosettes, Scandinavian, 500. 

Roux, 21. 

Rusks, Sponge, 607. 



Salad, Apple and Cress, 323. 

Asparagus, 321. 

Banana and Pimento, 330. 

Bird's Nest, 325. 

Cabbage, 322, 323. 

Cauliflower and Beet, 324. 

Celery, Apple and Pepper, 329. 

Celery, Apple and Pistachio, 329. 

Celery and Cheese, 325. 

Celery, Cress, etc., 326. 

Celery Jelly, 326. 

Celery and Orange, 329. 

Celery, Pimento and Nut, 325. 

Chicken in Salad Rolls, 327. 

College, 330. 

Cress and Egg, 324. 

Cucumber for Fish, 323. 

Duck, 331. 

Egg and Tomato Jelly, 326. 

Endive, 321. 

Endive and Egg, 325. 

French Bean, 324. 

Grape, Orange and Nut, 330. 

Lobster, 331. 

Making, 317-318. 

Materials, Draining, 319. 

Materials, Preparation, 319. 

New Spinach, 326. 

Okra, 324. 

Orange and Nut, 329. 

Oyster, in Ice Bowl, 328. 

Pineapple, Pimento, etc., 329. 

Plants, Cleansing, 318. 

Points in Making, 319. 

Potato, 321. 

Potato with Bacon, 322. 

Salmon, 328. 

Scallop, 328. 

Shad Roe and Cucumber, 328. 

Shrimp and Cucumber, 327. 

Sweetbread, Cucumber, etc., 327. 

Stuffed Tomato, 322. 

Stuffed Tiimip, 327. 

Tomato, 322. 

Tomato and Cucumber, 322. 

Tomato Jelly with Nuts, 326. 
Sally Lunn, 374. 



Salmon, Baked in Paper, 83. 

Baked with Mushrooms, 81. 

Chartreuse of, 93. 

Mousse, 89. 

Salad, 328. 

Salted, 92. 

Salted, Broiled, etc., 92. 
Salpicon, Meaning of, 19. 
Samp, Baltimore, with Cream Sauce, 

298. 
Sandwiches, Cheese, 341. 

Cheese and Salted Nut, 341. 

Chicken, 340. 

Cottage Cheese and Cress, 341, 

Egg and Cress, 340. 

Ham and Egg, 340. 

Hot Ham, 346. 

Lobster, 340. 

Norwegian, 341. 

Preparation of, 338-339. 

Raw Beef, 341, 605. 

Russian, 341. 

Sardine, 339. 

Tongue and Rye Bread, 340. 
Sardine Canapfe, 336. 
Sardines and Spinach, 91. 
Sauce, AUemande, 202. 

Anchovy, 206. 

Asparagus, 203. 

Bechamel, 203. 

Bemaise, 214. 

Bread, 217. 

Brown, 207. 

Brown Tomato, 207. 

Caper, 206. 

Cauliflower, 204. 

Celery, 204. 

Chantilly Apple, etc., 220. 

Chaudfroid, 209. 

Cheese, 203, 205. 

Cherry, 218. 

Chili, 215, S48. 

Cooked for Salad, 216, 217. 

Colbert, 213. 

Cream, 202. 

Cucumber, 206, 213, 218. 

Currant Jelly, 208. 

Curry, 205. 

Drawn or Melted Butter, 206, 

Egg, 206. 

English Apple with Horseradish, 
220. 

Espagnole, 210. 



670 



PRACTICAL COOKING AND SERVING 



Sauce — Continued. 
French, 214. 
German, 207. 
Giblet, 157. 
HoUandaise, 212. 
Horseradish, 206, 218. 
Lobster, 205, 213, 219. 

Mayonnaise, 214. 

Green, 215. 

Jelly, 216. 

Red, 216. 

Suggestions for, 199-209 

White, 215. 
Mint, 218. 
Mousseline, 213. 
Mushroom, White, 203. 

Brown, 207. 
Nonpareil, 213. 
Olive, 208. 
Oyster, 205. 
Piqucinte, 20S. 
For Polenta, Rice, etc., 300 
Prussian, 217. 
Soubise, 204. 
Supreme, 211. 
Suprtoie, Yellow, 224. 
Tartare, 216. 
Thick White, 202. 
Tomato, White, 204. 
Velouti, 201, 202, 203,211. 
Vileroi, 208. 
White, 202. 
Sauce, Sweet, 

Apple, 522,523- 
Apricot, 510, 
Banana, 506,571. 
Brandy, 506. 
Burnt Cream, 512. 
Caramel, 511, 512. 
Cherry, 510. 
Chocolate, 508, 
Claret, 565. 
Coffee, 508, 565. 
Creamy, 509. 
Currant, 565. 
Currant Jelly, 510. 
Cranberry, 530. 
Frothy, 510. 

For Frozen Pudding, 563. 
Hard, 511. 
Lemon, 507, 509. 
Maple, 565. 
Maraschino, 505. 



Sauce — Continued. 

Mock Cream, 506. 

Mousseline, 508. 

Orange, 507, 511. 

Orange Sabayon, 507. 

Pineapple, 512. 

Raspberry, 564, 565. 

Royal, 507. 

Rum, 512. 

Sabayon, 507>SI3- 

Strawberry, 510, 610. 

Tutti-Frutti, 506. 

Wine, 513. 

Yellow, 509. 
Sauces, Fine, 209. 

Fruit Juice, 510. 

Roux for, 201. 

Simple, 201. 

Sweet, Composition, 505. 

Synopsis of, 200, 201. 
Saut£ing, 12. 
Savarin, 305. 
Scallop Salad, 328. 
Scallops, 96. 

Deep Shell, 102. 

Fried, loi. 
Scones, Cream, 383. 
Service k la Russe, Detail of, 646. 
Serving au Gratin, 19. 

k la JardiniSre, 19. 
Shad or White Fish, Planked, 86. 

Roe, Broiled, 86. 
Creamed, 311. 
Croquettes, 88. 
Curried, 311. 
Maryland Style, 88. 
Salad, 328. 
Sherbet, Coffee, 88. 

Grape, 568. 

Orange, 568. 

Peach, 567. 

Preserved Fruit, 567. 
Sherbets, General Rule (Water Ices), 

S5S- 
Shortcake, Banana, 498. 
Strawberry, 498. 
Shrimp Salad, 327. 
Shrimps, I04. 
Smelts, Friea, 87. 
Soda, 351, 354. 
Soda, Bicarbonate of, 355. 
SoufBfi, Chicken, 231, 254. 

Cheese, 347. 



MDEX 



677 



Souffle, Cocoanut, 302. 
Coffee, SOI. 
Custard, so2- 
Lobster, 231. 
Macaroon, 502. 
Omelet, s<^3- 
Oyster, 231. 
Tongue, 254. 
Soup, Almond Milk, 603. 
White, 180. 
Chicken, 180. 
ConsommS, 179. 
Cream of Com, 187. 

Beans and Onions, 188. 

Mushroom, 187. 

Oyster, i88. 

Sorrel, 187. 
English Beef, 180. 
Gumbo, 190. 
Lettuce, 181. 
Ox-tail, 181. 
Sour Cherry, 193. 
Tomato, 181. 
Tomato and Pea, 182. 
Turtle, Clear Green, 182. 
Wine of Sago, 193. 
Kettle, The, 174. 
Making, Classification, etc., 170- 

172. 
Stock, 172. 

Brown, 179. 

Bouillon, 179. 

Clearing of, 176. 

Fish, 178. 

Formula for Standard, 178. 

Kinds of, 176. 

Jellying of, 175. 

Materials Used in, 173. 

Proportion of Ingredients, 
176. 

Time of Cooking, 174. 

Vegetable, 177. 
Soups, Formula for Cream, 185. 
Garnishes for, 194. 

Balls, Chicken Liver, 197. 

Balls, Egg, 195. 

Celery and Lettuce, 197. 

Custard Chicken, 196. 

Custard, Royal, 194. 

Custard, White, 194. 

Noodles, 195. 

pate a, Chou, 197. 

Pearl Barley, 196. 



Soups — CotUinmd. 

Puff pate Croutons, 198. 
Quenelles, 197. 
Tapioca, Macaroni, 195. 
Chestnut Timbale, 195. 
Other Timbale, 196. 
Vegetables, 196. 
Yolks of Eggs, 194. 
Thickening for, 171, 186. 
Spaghetti, Moulds Lined with, 235. 
Spinach Balls, 281. 

a la Bechamel, 281. 

Cookery of, etc., 280. 

With Crown of Eggs, 281. 

With Sardines, 281. 
Sponge in Bread Making, 367. 

BlackbeiTy, 527. 

Grape, 473. 

Grape juice, 473. 3i6. 

Strawberry, 473. 
Springerhe, 417. 
Squabs, Broiled, 166, 606. 
Squash, au Gratin, 271. 

Stuffed with Shrimp, Summer, 
271. 
Starch, Cookery of, 6. 

Digestion of, 625, 626, 627. 

SolubiUty, etc., of, 5-6. 
Stew, Brunswick, 191. 
Stewing, 16. 
Stirring, 18. 
Strawberry Cannel on Glac6, S7i 

Charlotte Glacfe, 565. 

Charlotte Russe, 481. 

Cream, Ice, 560. 

Hearts, 452. 

Jam, S42- 

Jelly, 470. 

Preserves, S40- 

Sauce, 510,511. 

Shortcake, 498. 

Sponge, 473. 

Tartlets, 452. 

Vol-au-Vent, 452. 
Strawberries, Canned, 544. 

French Fashion, 520. 
Stuffing, Bread, 155, 156. 

Chestnut, 156. 

for Ducks, 158. 

Oyster, 155. 

Potato, 156. 

Potato and Walnut, 158. 

Poultry and Small Birds, 153. 



678 



PRACTICAL COOKING AND SERVING 



Stuffing — Continued. 

Prune and Walnut, 158. 

St. James, 157. 

Turkish, 156. 
Succotash, 284. 
Sugar, Boiling of, 581. 

Degree of Boiling, 582. 

Spun, SQL 
Sultana Roll, Claret Sauce, s^i. 
Sweetbread, Croquettes, 227. 

Cucumber, etc., Salad, 327. 

Cutlets, 228. 

Fried, 139. 

Larded and Baked, 129. 
Sweetbreads, Chaudfroid of, 257. 

Creamed, etc., 139. 

Newburg, 312. 
Syllabub, Wine, 483. 

Lemon, 485. 
Syrup for Ices, 583. 

Without a Gauge, 583. 



Table, Covers and Linens, 641. 

Decorations, 644. 

Lighting the, 645. 

Seating Guests at, 639. 

Cook's Tune, 33,34,35.36- 

Of Proportions, 37-38. 

Of Weights and Measures, 38. 
Tapioca Cream, 495. 

Pudding, Apple, 495. 
Custard, 496. 
With Fruit, 496. 
Tarts, Banbury, 450. 

Coffee, 4S3. 

Melba, 452, 
Tartlets, Strawberry, 452. 
Tea, Accompaniments of, 42 

Ball, The, 42. 

Beef, 601. 

Composition of, 41. 

Concerning, 41. 

Flaxseed, 599. 

For Large Companies, 42. 

Iced, 42. 

Infusion, 41. 

Five O'clock, 634. 
Teas, 654,635. 
Terrapin, Concerning, 108. 

Mock, 225. 
Timbale Cases, Swedish, 247. 



Timbale, Cheese, 347. 

Chicken, 238, 239. 

Fish, 236. 

For Consommfi, 196. 

Pea, 283. 

Ham in JeUy, 253. 

Lobster in Jelly, 253. 
Toast, Cream, 377. 

Cream, with Cheese, 377. 

Milk, 377. 

Properly Made, 376. 

Tomato, 377. 
Tomato and Cheese Pudding, 387, 
Tomato and Cheese Rabbit, 350. 

Catsup, 549. Cocktail, 333. 

Custard, Canned, 287. 

Jelly, 251,326. 

Punch, 579. 

Salad, 322, 326. 

Salad Stuffed, 322. 
Tomatoes, Broiled, 286. 

Scalloped with Onions, 286. 

Stewed, 285. 

Stuffed Caroline, 286. 

Sicilienne, 286. 

With Mushrooms, 294. 
"Tossing," 19. 
Tripe, Broiled, 122. 

Curried, 122. 

Poulette Style, 123. 

To Pickle, 122. 
Turkey, Boned and Roasted, 159. 

Galantine, 159-160. 

R&haufi^, 224. 

Roast, 154. 

Stuffing, St. James, 157. 

Trussing, 153. 
Turkish, Pilaf, 302. 
Turnip Balls, 266, 276. 
Turnip, Charlotte, 275. 
Turnip Pur6e, 275. 
Turnips in Cream, 276. 
Turtle, Concerning, 108. 

Ragout, Green, 109. 

Scalloped, Green, 109. 



Veal, Composition, Cuts, etc., 132. 
Cutlets, 134. 

Fillet and Fricandeau, 133. 
Loaf, 136. 
Pot Pie, i3«. 



INDEX 



679 



Veal — Continued. 

Pressed, 136. 

Roasted, 133. 

Rolls k la Jardiniere, 244. 

Sweetbread, 138. 
Vegetables, Composition and Cook- 
ing, 258. 

Preparing Canned, 262. 

Salt in Boiling, 260. 

Season for, 611, 612. 

Served with Fish, 633. 

Served with Roast Beef, etc., 

633- 

Steaming, 261. 
Venison, Cuts, etc., 167. 

Saddle, 167. 

Steak and Cutlets, 168. 
Vienna Cream Roll, 451. 
Vol-au-Vent, Shaping of, 448. 

Strawberry, 452. 

w 

Wafers, Almond, 415. 

Graham Commeal, 413. 
Waffles, and Rice, 384. 

Rich, 385- 

Sour Milk, 385. 



Water, Barley, 599. 

Cooking over Hot, 19. 

Currant and Tamarind, 599. 

Definition of, i. 

Expansion in Composition, 352. 

Pure Drinking, Essential, 40. 

Rice, 599. 

Simmering and Boiling, 8. 

Where Found, 4. 
Wheat Grain, Structure of, 360. 
Whey, Lemon, etc., 603. 
Whip, Royal Cream, 485. 
Wine, Diimer, Service of, 643 
Wine, Grape, 33- 

Syllabub, 485. 



Yeast, 353-354. 
Bread, 358. 
Cake Made with, 391. 
In Bread Making, 362. 
Potato, 367. 
Cake, 362. 



Zwieback, 373. 




THE COUNTRY LIFE PRESS 
GAKDEM CITY, a.Y. 



